# Chindesaurus

Chindesaurus ( ) is an extinct genus of basal saurischian dinosaur from the Late Triassic (213-210 million years ago) of the southwestern United States. It is known from a single species, C. bryansmalli, based on a partial skeleton recovered from Petrified Forest National Park in Arizona. The original specimen was nicknamed "Gertie", and generated much publicity for the park upon its discovery in 1984 and airlift out of the park in 1985. Other fragmentary referred specimens have been found in Late Triassic sediments throughout Arizona, New Mexico, and Texas, but these may not belong to the genus. Chindesaurus was a bipedal carnivore, approximately as large as a wolf.

Chindesaurus's classification is debated, and various papers have had different conclusions on its affinities. Its fossils were originally believed to belong to "prosauropods" (basal sauropodomorphs), but its original description and numerous subsequent papers argued that it was a herrerasaurid or herrerasaurian. A 2019 redescription of its holotype considered Chindesaurus to be a theropod closely related to Tawa, a slightly smaller dinosaur known from the Hayden Quarry of Ghost Ranch, New Mexico.

Discovery

Holotype 

Although many specimens have been referred to Chindesaurus, only one specimen has enough material to remain within the genus with certainty. This specimen, holotype PEFO 10395, is a partial skeleton, found within Petrified Forest National Park in Apache County, Arizona. PEFO 10395 was discovered in 1984 by Bryan Small, who recovered the skeleton from a blue mudstone layer in the Chinle Formation's Upper Petrified Forest Member. Based on U-Pb dating of overlying and underlying units, the mudstone layer was deposited about 213 to 210 million years ago, during the Norian stage of the Triassic.

PEFO 10395 mainly consists of vertebrae, limb bones, and hip fragments. Vertebrae include several partial cervical (neck) dorsal (back), and caudal (tail) vertebrae, along with two sacral (hip) vertebrae,  a chevron, and rib fragments. Each of the three bones making up the hip (the ilium, pubis, and ischium) are represented by isolated fragments. Leg bones include a complete right femur, the upper part of the left femur, an incomplete right tibia, and a right astragalus bone of the ankle. A single serrated tooth has also been considered as part of the specimen, but this may be in error.

When the holotype specimen was discovered, it was nicknamed "Gertie" (after Gertie the Dinosaur) and received much publicity. "Gertie" was subsequently airlifted by helicopter on June 6, 1985, and brought to the University of California Museum of Paleontology (UCMP) in Berkley, CA, where it was prepared over the next several years. The anniversary of the airlift and the media interest it generated for Petrified Forest National Park is celebrated at the park every year. "Gertie" was described and given a proper binomial name by R.A. Long and P.A. Murry in 1995. It was also initially known as the "Chinde Point dinosaur", in reference to a geological landmark close to the site which it was recovered from. This reference was carried over to its generic name, derived from the Navajo word chindi (meaning "ghost" or "evil spirit") and the Greek word "sauros" (σαυρος) (meaning "lizard"). Its name could therefore be translated as "ghost lizard" or "Lizard from Chinde Point". The specific name, bryansmalli, honors the discoverer, Bryan Small.

Referred specimens 
Several more incomplete specimens have been referred to the genus. These specimens consist of various vertebrae and femur fragments found throughout the American southwest. Eight referred specimens are stored at PEFO (Petrified Forest National Park, AZ), where the holotype was discovered. Two are stored at the UCMP (University of California Museum of Paleontology), where the holotype was prepared. Up to six more are stored at the New Mexico Museum of Natural History and Science (NMMNH) in Albuquerque, NM, with at least several of them having been discovered in the Bull Canyon Formation of New Mexico. A complete femur, GR 226, was discovered in 2006 at the Hayden Quarry of Ghost Ranch, NM, where it is now stored.

Though most specimens referred to Chindesaurus hail from Norian-age formations of Arizona and New Mexico, there are exceptions: TMM 31100-523, which consists of a proximal femur, was discovered in the Carnian-age Colorado City Formation of Texas. It is currently housed in the collections of the Texas Memorial Museum in Austin, TX. A similar case involves UMMP 8870, a partial ilium first described in 1927. It was recovered from the Carnian?-age Tecovas Formation of Texas, and now housed at the University of Michigan (UMMP) in Ann Arbor, MI. However, UMMP 8870 may represent a separate species of early dinosaur, Caseosaurus crosbyensis. The referred Texas specimens of Chindesaurus were at one point believed to be the oldest dinosaur fossils in the world.

Though specimens referred to Chindesaurus are widely distributed and sometimes well-preserved, none of them exhibit features unique to the genus. The referral of two specimens (NMMNH P16656 and NMMNH P17325) to Chindesaurus came under question as soon as 2007. Marsh et al. (2019) argued that only the holotype specimen of Chindesaurus should be considered as belonging to the genus. They removed all specimens except for the holotype from the genus, placing the rest as indeterminate material from the Chindesaurus + Tawa clade of their analysis.

Description

Long & Murry reconstructed Chindesaurus with a stout body, long legs, a fairly long neck, and a total estimated length of 3 to 4 meters (9.9 to 13.1 feet). Benson & Brusatte (2012) suggested that Chindesaurus was smaller, up to  in length. Holtz (2012) estimated that Chindesaurus had a length of about 2 meters (6.6) feet and a weight equivalent to that of a wolf (23–45 kg, or about 50-100 pounds). The skeletal anatomy of Chindesaurus is incompletely known, so these full body estimates are very rough approximations. The holotype specimen may not be fully grown due to its unfused ankle and dorsal neurocentral sutures. However, these features may not be fully correlated with development in early dinosaurs, and the specimen has other traits indicating a post-juvenile stage, such as a trochanteric shelf and fused caudal neurocentral sutures.

Vertebrae 
The cervical (neck) vertebrae, at least near the head, had a low keel along the front half of their lower edge. They also had a pair of shallow oval-shaped depressions on their sides, similar to those found in Tawa, Liliensternus, and Cryolophosaurus. The dorsal (trunk) vertebrae are deep, wide, and fairly short (from front-to-back), closer to the condition in herrerasaurids rather than Tawa and coelophysoids. Both the sides and the lower edge of each dorsal are constricted, and small pockets lie below the sutures with the neural arch. These pockets, known as centrodiapophyseal fossae, are ancestral to dinosaurs but lost by most theropods. Neural spines expand outwards and backwards, forming "spine-tables", structures which are otherwise only observed in Herrerasaurus and Dilophosaurus among potential theropods.

The two preserved sacral (hip) vertebrae are wide and not fused to each other. The assumption that Chindesaurus had only two sacrals has been vital to its traditional identity as a herrerasaurid. The rear side of the first sacral has a vertical ridge extending up to a large pit, which may be a hypantrum. Large sacral ribs extend outwards from the front half of each sacral vertebrae. The sacral ribs have an inverted T-shaped cross-section when seen from the side. The caudal (tail) vertebrae are large at the base of the tail and elongated towards the tip of the tail. Several low ridges extend towards the prezygapophyses at the front of the distal caudal vertebra. The prezygapophyses themselves are fairly short, unlike those of herrerasaurids or most theropods. A neural spine rises up abruptly in the last third of each caudal. Chevrons curve backwards and are thinnest at their mid-length.

Hip and hindlimb 

The postacetabular process (rear blade) of the ilium is low, with a horizontal ridge on its inner edge and a large roughly-textured tubercle on its outer surface. These characteristics are also known in Caseosaurus. There is no distinct brevis fossa, also like Caseosaurus and herrerasaurids. Both the pubic and ischiadic peduncles of the ilium expand lengthwise towards their lower edges. Unlike herrerasaurids, the supraacetabular crest of the ilium does not extend as far forwards as its contact with the pubis. The pubis is thin, straight, and slightly curved back, widening slightly towards the ilium. On the other hand, the ischium seems to widen slightly away from the ilium.

The femur is large and sigmoid, with a smooth, rectangular femoral head. Like Tawa (but unlike coelophysoids), the anterior trochanter has the appearance of a bulbous ridge, not separated from the