Chemistry Research Paper

Title: Electrochemistry of Phase-Change Materials in Thermal Energy Storage Systems: A Critical Review of Green Transitions in Built Environments

Abstract:
This article reviews recent research on phase-change materials (PCMs) used in thermal energy storage systems with the aim of enhancing their performance. The study explores various methods to improve heat transfer in PCMs, such as microencapsulation, infill materials, fins and nanofluids. Additionally, it evaluates techniques to boost heat transfer in latent heat thermal energy storage (LHTES) systems and investigates ways to increase thermal conductivity using porous and low-density materials. PCMs store thermal energy, making them suitable for use in solar energy systems when solar energy is not available. The need for eco-friendly alternatives to conventional heating and cooling in global construction and the significant energy consumption of buildings has driven research on this topic. As such, this study additionally examines current advancements in free cooling systems with latent heat storage to identify the key factors affecting their effectiveness. The findings show that using PCMs for overnight cooling maintains the room temperature within the comfort zone and reduces the cooling loads in various climates. Using machine learning methods, this study also compares recent advancements in the use of PCMs in various solar energy systems, including solar thermal power plants, solar air purifiers, solar water heaters and solar appliances. Results derived feature key factors crucial for the optimal selection of PCMs and the challenges associated with sustainable green transitions in built environments. HIGHLIGHTS This review provides an in-depth examination of PCM thermal energy storage systems. This study investigates the use of fillers, nanofluids, and nanoparticles for enhanced heat transfer. Analytical methods for boosting the PCM thermal conductivity are briefly outlined. Geometric design and thermal conductivity enhancement affect the Latent Heat Thermal Energy Storage (LHTES). The assessment also evaluates advanced free-cooling systems using the LHTES. PCMs help to store heat energy in solar systems and bridge supply gaps. GRAPHICAL ABSTRACT