# Polar Beverages

Polar Beverages is a soft drink company based in Worcester, Massachusetts. It is a manufacturer and distributor of sparkling fruit beverages, seltzer, ginger ale, drink mixers, and spring water to customers in the United States. It is the largest independent soft-drink bottler in the United States.

It markets beverages under its flagship brand, Polar Beverages, and under the brands Adirondack Beverages, Polar Seltzer, and Cape Cod Dry. In addition to its own drinks, Polar bottles and distributes national brands for companies such as Keurig Dr Pepper. The company has two bottling plants and six distribution facilities; it also offers corporate water services and beverage vending equipment.

It is a fourth-generation, family-owned business that traces its roots to 1882; and is run by Ralph Crowley Jr., the great-grandson of founder Dennis M. Crowley.

History
Polar was founded by Ralph’s great-grandfather, Dennis Mark "Boss" Crowley. The business began in the 1880s as the J. G. Bieberbach Company, a liquor company. In 1916, the company took on the Polar name. The company stopped selling whiskey during Prohibition and began selling carbonated beverages like waters, ginger ales and drys.

Products and Flavors 
Polar Beverages produces drinks flavored with natural fruit flavors. An in-house drink mixologist creates 5 limited edition varieties at two separate times of year to incorporate new flavors.

Polar Seltzer 

 Cranberry Clementine
 Pineapple Pomelo
 Toasted Coconut
 Cranberry Lime
 Ruby Red Grapefruit
 Georgia Peach
 Mandarin
 Triple Berry
 Vanilla
 Raspberry Lime
 Orange Vanilla
 Strawberry Watermelon
 Blueberry Lemonade
 Pink Apple & Lemon
 Ginger Lime Mule
 Black Cherry
 Lemon
 Lime

Seltzer JR 

 Werewolf Howls
 Unicorn Kisses
 Yeti Mischief
 Mermaid Songs
 Pixie Lights
 Dragon Whispers

Expedition: Flavor 

 Clementine Bramble
 Nectarine Lemon
 Cranberry Raspberry

Limited Edition 
An asterisk (*) denotes a returning flavor.

 Summer 2023: Raspberry Limoncello, Pineapple Guava, Seaside Watermelon Punch, Passionfruit Blueberry*, Dragon Fruit Lemonade*
 Winter 2022: Black Cherry Vanilla, Pomegranate Champagne, Key Lime Grapefruit, Cranberry Bramble*, Prickly Pear & Citrus*
 Summer 2022: Dragon Fruit Lemonade, Guava Mule, Passionfruit Blueberry, Pink Summer Iced Tea*, Strawberry Margarita*
 Winter 2021: Prickly Pear & Citrus, Cranberry Bramble, Upside Down Plum, Pomegranate Apple*, Concord Clementine*
 Summer 2021: Watermelon Mojito, Tropical Cherry, Pink Summer Iced Tea, Blackberry Mango Punch*, Strawberry Margarita*
 Winter 2020: Pomegranate Apple, Concord Clementine, Grapefruit Melon Kiss, Ginger Peach*, Blackberry Citron*
 Summer 2020: Strawberry Margarita, Blackberry Mango Punch, Kiwi Pink Grapefruit, Perfectly Plum Summer, Raspberry Rosé*
 Winter 2019: Berry Sweet Grapefruit, Ginger Peach, Pink Lady Apple & Lemon, Blackberry Clementine*, Blood Orange Sangria*
 Summer 2019: Nectarine Lemon, Strawberry Honeydew, Mango Cherry Bliss, Raspberry Rosé*, Blueberry Tangerine*
 Winter 2018: Hibiscus Cloudberry, Blackberry Clementine, Vanilla Zen, Cranberry Cider*, Ginger Lime Mule*
 Summer 2018: Pineapple Lemon Twist, Mango Cherry Bliss, Blueberry Tangerine, Raspberry Rosé*, Cucumber Melon*
 Winter 2017: Blood Orange Sangria, Ginger Lime Mule, Blackberry Citron, Cranberry Cider*, Winter Citrus & Berry*
 Summer 2017: Pineapple Grapefruit, Raspberry Rosé, Strawberry Sunrise, Mango Berry*, and Watermelon Margarita*
 Winter 2016: Cranberry Cider, Pink Peach Bellini, Late Harvest Berries, Winter Citrus & Berry*, Tart Cherry & Lime*
 Summer 2016: Tangerine Limeade, Watermelon Margarita, Raspberry Pink Lemonade, Mango Berry, Pomegranate Sangria*
 Winter 2015: Tart Cherry & Lime, Winter Citrus & Berry, Blackberry Apple, Champagne Strawberry*, Cranberry & Clementine*
 Summer 2015: Tropical Mai Tai, Strawberry Watermelon, Guava Mandarin, Blueberry Lemonade*, Pomegranate Sangria*
 Winter 2014: Champagne Strawberry, Cranberry Clementine, Ginger Apple, Blackberry Bergamot, Toasted Coconut Créme
 Summer 2014: Raspberry Mojito, Blueberry Lemonade, Cucumber Melon, Pomegranate Sangria, Mango Papaya

Seltzer'ade 

 Coconut Limeade
 Pineapple Lemonade
 Blood Orange Lemonade
 Strawberry Lemonade
 Starfruit Lemonade
 Raspberry Pink Lemonade
 Mango Limeade
 Watermelon Lemonade
 Blueberry Lemonade
 Tart Cherry Limeade

Mixers 

 Tonic Water
 Diet Tonic Water
 Tonic Water With Lime
 Diet Tonic Water With Lime
 Club Soda
 Club Soda With Lemon
 Club Soda With Lime
 Vichy Water
 Ginger Ale
 Diet Ginger Ale
 Golden Ginger Ale
 Ginger Ale With Green Tea
 Half & Half
 Diet Half & Half
 Bitter Lemon
 Sour Lemon
 Tom Collins

Polar FROST 

 Arctic Twist
 Black Raspberry
 Kiwi Strawberry
 Lemon Lime
 Lemonade
 Nordic Berry
 Orange Mango
 Pink Grapefruit
 Pomegranate Berry

Polar Sparkling Dry 

 Pink Grapefruit Dry
 Diet Pink Grapefruit Dry
 Orange Dry
 Diet Orange Dry

Polar Sparkling Soda 

 Birch Beer
 Diet Birch Beer
 Diet Double Fudge
 Cream Soda
 Diet Cream Soda
 Root Beer
 Diet Root Beer
 Black Cherry
 Diet Black Cherry
 Diet Grape
 Raspberry Lime
 Diet Raspberry Lime

Polar Classic Cane Sugar Soda 

 Orange Cream
 Black Cherry
 Root Beer
 Vanilla Cream

Polar Spring Water

Partnership with Keurig 
In July 2020, Polar partnered with Keurig Dr Pepper to expand their market nationwide. Under the partnership, the Crowley family retains company ownership with direct access to Keurig's delivery and marketing network.

Mascot

A polar bear named Orson has been the company's mascot since 1902. Next to the company's billboard near I-290 in Worcester, there is a large inflatable version of Orson, which can be seen smiling and "waving" to passersby. The oversized bear is tied down by wire, to keep the bear in place during rough weather, and to prevent theft. Orson has sometimes been stolen by local fraternities as a prank.

Conflict with Coca-Cola
In 1994, Polar made a TV commercial where a polar bear considers drinking a Coca-Cola, but throws it into a recycling bin marked, "Keep the Arctic pure."  The polar bear then reaches down into the freezing Arctic water and pulls out a can of Polar Seltzer and drinks from it contentedly.  Coca-Cola filed a motion for an injunction against Polar in United States District Court in Boston, contending that the commercial made Coke's product appear impure.

The court granted Coca-Cola's motion because the commercial "implied that Coke [was] not pure" and misrepresented the nature and quality of Coke, thereby potentially harming the soft drink irreparably. The injunction required Polar to revise the ad.  According to Polar, the judge's ruling affirmed the right of Polar to use a polar bear in its ads, but limited them from discarding the Coke can.

See also
 Polar Park (baseball park)

References

External links
 Polar Beverages - Official website
 Hoovers.com
 PSBC - The Painted Soda Bottle Collectors Association

Drink companies of the United States
American soft drinks
Companies based in Worcester, Massachusetts
Food and drink companies established in 1882
1882 establishments in Massachusetts
Economy of the Northeastern United States
Privately held companies based in Massachusetts
Food and drink companies based in Massachusetts
Soft drinks manufacturers
Family-owned companies of the United States