# New York State Route 78

New York State Route 78 (NY 78) is a  state highway in western New York in the United States. While it is signed north–south, the southern portion runs in an east–west direction across Wyoming and Erie counties, from its beginning at a junction with NY 19 north of the village of Gainesville to the village of East Aurora. The part of the route north of East Aurora follows a generally north–south alignment to an intersection with NY 18 in the Niagara County town of Newfane (at the hamlet of Olcott), just south of the Lake Ontario shoreline. The route is most closely identified in the region with Transit Road, a major north–south trunk road through the center of Erie and Niagara counties; however, NY 78 does not follow Transit Road for its entire length, nor does Transit Road comprise more than half its length. The highway joins Transit Road north of East Aurora and stays with the road until nearly its end in the city of Lockport.

The section of NY 78 between NY 5 in the town of Amherst and the Lake Ontario shoreline in Newfane was originally designated New York State Route 32 in the mid-1920s. In the 1930 renumbering of state highways in New York, NY 32 was absorbed into NY 78, which ran from Gainesville to Newfane upon assignment. From East Aurora to Depew, NY 78 originally used a slightly more easterly alignment along several local streets and a section of NY 422. Two realignments in the 1930s moved the route onto its modern alignment, and NY 78's original routing between East Aurora and Depew was briefly designated NY 78A during the mid-1930s.

Route description

Wyoming County 
NY 78 begins at an intersection with NY 19 at the northern end of the Wyoming County village of Gainesville. NY 78 proceeds westward from NY 19 as Delhi Road, a two-lane residential road through the rural sections of Gainesville. At a junction with Dolph Road, NY 78 bends southwest, dropping the Delhi Road moniker, and soon entering the hamlet of Wethersfield, located in the town of the same name. In Wethersfield, NY 78 is a two-lane residential street, intersecting with the northern terminus of County Route 10 (CR 10; Hardys Road) and southern terminus of CR 4 (Hermitage Road). 

After the hamlet of Wethersfield, NY 78 continues southwest, crossing through rural farms as a two-lane roadway, intersecting with the southern terminus of CR 57 (Poplar Tree Road). A short distance after CR 57, NY 78 intersects with the northern terminus of NY 362 while winding southwest through Wethersfield. At the intersection with Maxwell Drive, NY 78 becomes westbound, remaining rural for several miles. After the intersection with Irish Road, NY 78 makes a gradual bend to the southwest, then north. At the end of this bend, NY 78 intersects with the eastern terminus of CR 54 (Chaffee Road) and the northern terminus of CR 11 (East Arcade Road).

Now in the town of Java, NY 78 uses the right-of-way once used by CR 11 northbound, winding past several farms as it proceeds northward. A short distance to the north, NY 78 intersects with NY 98 southbound. Both NY 78 north and NY 98 south turn west on a wrong-way concurrency through the town of Java, running as a two-lane residential street through dense woods and wide fields. Continuing west through Java, NY 78 and NY 98 cross over a railroad line and enter the hamlet of Java Center. In Java Center, NY 78 and NY 98 intersect with the southern terminus of NY 77 (Cattaraugus Road). This intersection also doubles as the terminus of the NY 78 and NY 98 concurrency as NY 98 proceeds south on NY 77's right-of-way. 

NY 78 bends northwest on Main Street and out of Java Center as a two-lane rural roadway through the town of Java. The route soon drops the Main Street moniker, winding northwest into an intersection with CR 44 (Curriers Road). After CR 44, NY 78 runs northwest as a two-lane residential road, passing numerous houses before intersecting with the eastern terminus of CR 15 (Holland Road). After an intersection with Elm Road, NY 78 regains the Main Street moniker, crossing into the town of Sheldon and into the hamlet of Strykersville. Through Strykersville, NY 78 is a two-lane residential street, intersecting with the western terminus of CR 9 (Perry Road) and the southern terminus of CR 35 (Dutch Hollow Road). 

After CR 35, NY 78 bends northwest out of Strykersville, crossing into the rural sections of Sheldon surrounding the hamlet. Near the intersection with Chester Street, NY 78 crosses the county line into Erie County and into the town of Wales.

Erie County

Wales to West Seneca
Now in the Erie County town of Wales, NY 78 changes monikers from Main Street to Strykersville Road, paralleling Buffalo Creek northwest through the rural section of Wales. A short distance northwest, NY 78 intersects with CR 175 (Center Line Road), which connects to the Wyoming County line a short distance east. For a short distance after the intersection, the two routes parallel, with NY 78 bypassing the hamlet of Wales Hollow and intersecting with the northern terminus of CR 387 (East Creek Road). Still known as Strykersville Road, NY 78 parallels Buffalo Creek into the southern terminus of CR 385 (Schang Road). The two-lane rural roadway remains the same for several miles to the northwest, crossing an intersection with CR 382 (Hunters Creek Road).

Continuing northwest through Wales, NY 78 remains a two-lane rural street known as Strykersville Road until intersecting with US 20A (Big Tree Road) at a T-intersection. US 20A and NY 78 become concurrent along Big Tree, proceeding west through the town of Wales. The routes remain a two-lane residential street for a distance, intersecting with CR 383 (Reiter Road) as it winds west. Now in the town of Aurora, US 20A and NY 78 enter a large interchange with NY 400 (the Aurora Expressway). A short distance later, the routes enter the village of East Aurora. Now known as Main Street, US 20A and NY 78 proceed west as a two-lane village street, intersecting with NY 16 (Olean Road) and the southern continuation of CR 6 (Pine Street).

NY 16 joins the US 20A and NY 78 concurrency as it proceeds west on Main Street, becoming the main commercial thoroughfare through the village. The routes cross over railroad tracks in the center of East Aurora, returning to the residential street it was earlier, which reverts at Center Street. Several blocks to the west, US 20A, NY 16 and NY 78 enter a roundabout at the western end of East Aurora, where US 20A forks southwest on Hamburg Street, while NY 16 and NY 78 join up with CR 572 (Buffalo Street) and proceed northwest out of the village. Now in the town of Aurora once again, NY 16, NY 78 and CR 572 proceed northwest past Knox Farm State Park, intersecting with CR 377 (Williardshire Road). At CR 377, the moniker changes from Buffalo Street to Seneca Street as NY 16, NY 78 and CR 572 enter the town of Elma. 

Passing the town water tower, NY 16, NY 78 and CR 572 proceed northwest through Elma as a two-lane commercial and residential road, intersecting with the western terminus of CR 528 (West Blood Road). The routes slowly becomes commercial once again, passing a large industrial building before entering an at-grade interchange with CR 574 (Jamison Road). Before 1980, this intersection served as the western terminus of NY 422. After CR 574, NY 16, NY 78 and CR 572 continue northwest along Seneca Street as a two-lane residential roadway through Elma. Bending northwest, the routes enter the hamlet of Spring Brook, where it intersects with CR 140 (Rice Road) and CR 362 (North Davis Road).

Paralleling Cazenovia Creek, NY 16, NY 78 and CR 572 intersect with the southern terminus of CR 95 (Pound Road). The route remains a two-lane residential road for a distance, soon bending further northwestward into the town of West Seneca. In West Seneca, the three routes intersect with US 20 (Transit Road). At this intersection, NY 78 turns north onto a concurrency with US 20 while NY 16 proceeds northwest along CR 215. This junction serves as the northern terminus of CR 572. Now concurrent with US 20, NY 78 runs north along Transit Road as a four-lane commercial boulevard, quickly entering a cloverleaf interchange with NY 400 (the Aurora Expressway) once again.

Transit Road 

US 20 and NY 78 proceed northward along Transit Road, remaining a major commercial thoroughfare street serving the eastern suburbs of Buffalo with limited pockets of residential along its run. Throughout its north–south run to the Erie County–Niagara County line to the north, Transit Road serves as the town line boundaries of West Seneca and Elma, Cheektowaga and Lancaster, and Amherst and Clarence, respectively, except for a brief period where it passes through the Village of Depew, which straddles the Cheektowaga-Lancaster line. 

After an intersection with CR 330 (Bullis Road), Transit Road continues north as a five lane road, serving as the town line between West Seneca to the west and Elma to the east, parall