Chemistry Research Paper

Title: Synthesis and controlled radical polymerization of multifunctional monomers

Abstract:
Multifunctional monomers on the basis of acryl- and methacryl derivatives were synthesized and different protective groups were used. After polymerization the protective groups were removed by different methods. Various initiators for the NMP of the monomers were synthesized and the reaction conditions were optimized. The results showed that NMP was not a suitable method for multifunctional acryl- and methacryl derivatives to achieve well-defined homopolymers, although it was successful for control of polymerization of styrene and block copolymerization of multifunctional acryl- and methacryl derivatives with alkoxyamine terminated polystyrene. The ATRP of multifunctional acrylates and methacrylates has been successfully performed, as well as the block copolymerization of multifunctional acrylates and methacrylates. Relatively low polydispersities of the corresponding polymers (PD=1.18-1.36) and reasonably high rates of polymerization could be achieved when Me6TREN and PMDETA were used as ligands. However, the ATRP of multifunctional acrylamides and methacrylamides failed. The RAFT-polymerization of styrene, acrylamide and acrylate using BDTB as a CTA and AIBN as an initiator afforded polymers with narrow molecular weight distribution (PD=1.13-1.26). A kinetic investigation and the further synthesis of block copolymers using dithioester-terminated homopolymers as macroCTAs showed that the RAFT polymerization of acrylamide M9b proceeded in a living manner. However, BDTB does not control the reaction of methacrylic monomers, such as methacrylates and methacrylamides. The bulk phase behavior of the block copolymers were examined by means of DSC and the surface behaviors of block copolymers as thin layers were examined with AFM. Two-phase transitions in the block copolymers were observed clearly by DSC, indicative of the appearance of phase separations, which were seen in an AFM image. In conclusion, multifunctional acryl- and methacryl derivatives failed to achieve well-defined homopolymers by NMP. However, this method was successful for block copolymerization of multifunctional acryl- and methacryl derivatives with alkoxyamine terminated polystyrene. Multifunctional acrylates and methacrylates were successfully homopolymerized and block copolymerized by ATRP. Multifunctional acrylates and acrylamides were suitable for homopolymerization and block copolymerization by the RAFT process. Thus far, it is difficult to homopolymerize multifunctional methacrylamides in controlled way.