# Katoomba railway station

Katoomba railway station is a heritage-listed railway station located on the Main Western line in Katoomba, New South Wales, Australia. It serves the Blue Mountains town of Katoomba opening on 2 February 1874 as Crushers, being renamed Katoomba on 9 July 1877.

A passing loop exists to the north of the station. West of the station is a disused yard. A level crossing immediately east of the station was replaced by a bridge west of the station on 31 January 1986.

The station was upgraded in 2001 with the provision of a lift.

It was added to the New South Wales State Heritage Register on 2 April 1999.

Platforms and services
Katoomba has one island platform with two sides. It is serviced by NSW TrainLink Blue Mountains Line services travelling from Sydney Central to Lithgow. Some services from Sydney terminate at Katoomba. The Bathurst Bullet operates 2 evening services to Bathurst.

It is also serviced by NSW TrainLink's Central West XPT and Outback Xplorer long-distance services from Sydney to Dubbo and Broken Hill.

Transport links
Blue Mountains Transit operates ten bus routes via Katoomba station, under contract to Transport for NSW:
685: to Wentworth Falls & North Wentworth Falls
685H: to Hazelbrook & North Hazelbrook
686: to Katoomba Golf Glub and Echo Point & Scenic World
690K: to Springwood
690H: to Katoomba Hospital
695: to South Leura
696: to South Katoomba
697: to North Katoomba
698: to Blackheath
698V: to Blackheath & Mount Victoria

History 
The railway from Wentworth Falls to Mount Victoria was opened in 1868, passing through what was to become Katoomba. The Great Western Railway was intended to initially reach Bathurst but, beyond that town, its terminus was not stated.

The Katoomba station opened in 1874 as "The Crushers".  A sandstone quarry suitable for producing ballast for the construction and maintenance of the line was developed just to the north of the line, and from 1874 The Crushers was a stopping-place for trains with quarrymen, equipment and wagons for transporting ballast. A platform was provided in 1877 close to the level-crossing keeper's cottage (demolished in 1902).

In 1881, a new timber platform and station were built, to the west of the level-crossing. The goods yard between the stations and Bathurst Road (then the Great Western Highway) was developed in 1883–4. This expansion was necessary because of Katoomba's growth in the 1880s and 1890s as a tourist and local commercial centre. The goods yard contains a valuable collection of traditional railway structures, including the 5 ton jib crane (no. T171), the goods shed 54' x 12' dating in part from 1881 and an unusual curved timber loading platform.  There is also an office for the yard gatekeeper and for a signalman, all dating from the early 1900s.

In 1891, the 1881 station building was moved to the improved goods yard to the south. The Katoomba Times reported on 10 October 1891 that "the old Katoomba station building is to be the goods shed, and was put into position last Wednesday (7 October 1891)", with the 1884 crane adjacent to the east. Around 1921 the goods yard was altered, the siding was realigned and the goods shed (the former station of 1881) was moved 18 metres to the east, where it still resides. The 1884 five-tonne crane was moved along with the shed to its present position.

The present island platform and building at Katoomba date from 1891 and was constructed for £6,922 (including the subway) by builders Quiggan and Kermode. They are unusual for two reasons.  Firstly, the timber building is curved and, secondly, the building design was only used in the Sydney metropolitan rail system. It is the only such building constructed outside the Central-to -Parramatta line. It is one of four such structures remaining extant from a number of stations containing Type 10 buildings including Newtown, MacDonaldtown, Ashfield, Lewisham (all demolished – possibly other examples) and Summer Hill, Homebush and Croydon (extant). Extensions to the building in the same style were carried out in 1913 for £216. Its dominant feature is the extension of the roof bearers to form awnings on both sides and the position of small ornate brackets under the awning beams, marking a transition from the use of posted verandas to cantilevered awnings. The platform was reached by the use of a pedestrian subway constructed in 1891, which were rare outside Sydney.

The other main platform building is the elevated, timber signal box, which was commissioned in 1903.  The signal box contains a cam and tappet 40 lever interlocking machine that was installed in 1945.  It is typical of the construction time and is similar to boxes at Mount Victoria, Newnes Junction, Lithgow Yard and Exeter.

The line was duplicated in 1902. A two-room timber building was built on the western end of the platform in 1909 for an inspector and an electrician and this building was extended in 1945 for use as a staff meal room.  An "out-of" shed completed the platform structures.

At the entrance to the Station are the "Progress Buildings" which are shown on a plan as part of a new "Booking and Parcels Office Building" dated 20 December 1938. The buildings are a single storey group of three shops facing south to Bathurst Road with an additional shopfront facing east to the exit from the railway station subway. The easternmost shop, 283-285 Bathurst Road, retains its original brass shopfront, albeit with some modification, and tiled piers between, the shop entries are recessed from the street with splayed shopfront reveals. The tiled and marble threshold records the name "MARX" an early Katoomba businessman who used the premises. The Progress Buildings are still owned by Transport Asset Holding Entity and leased for private business.

The railway residence at 8 Abbotsford Road was sold in 1964.

Description

Station building (1891) 
External: The station building is a unique type 10 "Standard Eddy" design, with its curved form along the platform.  The building is a single storey building of rusticated weatherboards with a hipped corrugated steel roof largely hidden behind the encircling cantilevered awning with a deep valance of fretwork timber boards. This building type is one of the first major buildings to have a cantilevered awning. The building and awning are constructed on a curve following the platform shape. Cast iron decorative brackets on timber moulded posts support the awning along both of the platforms. Fenestration includes timber double-hung windows with multi-paned upper sashes (coloured glazing), frosted glazing to bottom sashes, and timber panelled doors with multi-paned fanlights (coloured glazing). The building retains its original/early external configuration and fenestration.

Internal: The interiors of the station building generally retain the original layout combining (from west to east) a waiting room, booking office, staff room, clock room, station managers office, ladies toilet and gentlemen's toilets. The overall finishes include timber board wall and ceiling linings, moulded timber cornices and dado line, ceiling roses, fluorescent lighting, a fireplace in the SM's office with cast iron grate timber surrounds and tile hearth, and tile, linoleum or carpet floor finishes. Toilet fittings are modern.

Signal box (1902) 
External: The signal box is a small timber structure on brick base with corrugated iron gabled roof and curved corrugated iron awning to all sides. It is  long x  wide located on the country end of the platform. The operating floor is  above the platform level with L-shape stair access from the eastern side. Tall multi-paned ribbon windows all around the building provide a visual connection with the other platform structures.   A small gabled timber panelled relay room with brick base and concrete steps is located just off the west elevation of the signal box.

Internal: The internal finishes of the signal box are similar to the main station building with timber board ceiling and wall linings and timber skirtings. A 40 lever type A PL interlocking machine with associated signalling equipment is the major element in the space and is still in operation. Access to the relay room is prohibited.

"Out of" shed () 
External: A small rusticated weatherboard out-of-shed with gabled corrugated metal roof is located to the west of the signal box. It is used for flammable liquid storage and has only a timber board door with fanlight and a band window on the opposite elevation. Simple timber bargeboards and finials complete the gable ends.

Internal: Timber-framed structure with no internal wall and ceiling lining exposing the underside of the corrugated metal roofing and rusticated weatherboard. The floor is concrete.

Former inspector/electrician's office (1909 & 1945) 
From 2009, this was used as a CCTV and meals room.

External: Combining the 1909 two-room former inspector/electrician's office structure and the 1945 staff meal room extension, the shed is the