# Goodbyeee

"Goodbyeee", or "Plan F: Goodbyeee", is the sixth and final episode of Blackadder Goes Forth, the fourth and final series of British historical sitcom Blackadder. The episode was first broadcast on BBC1 in the United Kingdom on 2 November 1989, shortly before Armistice Day. Apart from the one-off short film Blackadder: Back & Forth made a decade later, it was the last episode of Blackadder to be produced and transmitted.

The episode depicts its main characters' final hours before a major British offensive on the Western Front of the First World War, and Captain Blackadder's attempts to escape his fate by feigning madness; after he fails to convince General Melchett, and Field Marshal Haig's advice proves useless, he resigns himself to taking part in the offensive. "Goodbyeee" has a darker tone than other episodes in the series, culminating in its acclaimed ending in which the main characters are assumed to have died. The episode's theme of death ties in with the series' use of gallows humour, its criticism and satire of war, and its depiction of authority figures contentedly sending their subordinates to face the enemy, while unwilling to do so themselves.

Richard Curtis and Ben Elton wrote the episode, and further material was provided by cast members. The final sequence, which shows the main characters going "over the top", uses slow motion, as the programme's creators were unhappy with the result of the scripted ending. The enhanced scene has been described as bold and highly poignant.

Plot

Background

Each series of Blackadder depicts its protagonist, always a scheming and (except in the first series) witty man named Edmund Blackadder, in different periods throughout history. In Blackadder Goes Forth, he is Captain Blackadder (Rowan Atkinson), an officer in the British Army on the Western Front during the First World War.

Joined by his colleagues—the poor, stupid and unhygienic Private Baldrick (Tony Robinson), and the overly optimistic, upper-class and equally idiotic Lieutenant George Colthurst St Barleigh (Hugh Laurie)—Blackadder tries constantly to escape his position and avoid the "big push", which he fears will result in his death. His efforts are hindered by the loud and intimidating General Sir Anthony Cecil Hogmanay Melchett (Stephen Fry) and Melchett's strict, sardonic, and jobsworth staff officer, Captain Kevin Darling (Tim McInnerny).

Events
Captain Blackadder's trench receives a phone call from HQ: a full-scale attack has been ordered for the next day at dawn. Realising that this is likely to mean his death, Blackadder plans to escape by pretending to be mad: he puts underpants on his head and sticks pencils in his nostrils. His plan is thwarted when General Melchett arrives to see what is happening and remarks that he shot an entire platoon that used this exact method; Blackadder overhears and narrowly escapes Melchett's punishment by pretending he is relating the story to Baldrick before dismissing him.

After inspecting the men, Melchett compliments Blackadder on his troops but when Baldrick reveals he doesn't love the King, Melchett punches him, wishing Blackadder, George and their troops good luck, informing them there's no place at the front for a General who has a dicky heart and wooden bladder. He leaves after George declines his offer not to participate in the push, and Baldrick suggests that Blackadder ask Field Marshal Douglas Haig to get them out; remembering that Haig owes him a favour, Blackadder decides to call in the morning. George, Baldrick and Blackadder discuss the War and the friends they have lost—George mentions the Christmas truce of 1914 (in which the belligerents stopped fighting to play football) and realises he is the only "Trinity Tiddlers" member still alive; this is paralleled in Baldrick's pets, who have all died. Back at HQ, Melchett surprises Captain Darling with a front-line commission. Darling's pleas to reconsider are misinterpreted, and Melchett insists that he go.

The following morning, Blackadder calls Field Marshal Haig and reminds him of his debt; Haig reluctantly advises using the previously attempted underpants method, ending the call with "favour returned", causing Blackadder to remark, "Clucking bell", realizing his fate's been sealed. Darling arrives, and his animosity with Blackadder dissolves as they are both put in the same situation. George tries to cheer everybody up, but finds himself as scared as the others, something Baldrick agrees with. Darling states that he had hoped to live through the War, return to England and marry his fiancée.

The men are then called to the trench to prepare for the big push. There is a moment of hope when the British barrage lifts, but Blackadder reminds his colleagues that they have stopped only to avoid hitting their own men. Baldrick tells Blackadder that he has a plan to escape certain death, but for the first time in any series, does not call it a "cunning plan". Blackadder replies that Baldrick's idea will have to wait, but admits it could not fail to improve over his own plan to feign insanity because "who would have noticed another madman round here?"  The series concludes with Blackadder earnestly wishing his comrades good luck, and they charge over the top into thunderous machine-gun fire. The sequence enters slow motion as a slow piano version of the Blackadder theme is played. The series ends as the violent chaos of No man's land fades into a tranquil field of poppies, with only birdsong heard in the background.

Production

The episode was written by Richard Curtis and Ben Elton, who swapped computer disks to make edits. They stuck to a rule whereby they could not add back material the other had removed. The script was collaboratively edited by the cast members of Blackadder Goes Forth during read-throughs. Elton was primarily responsible for the sequence in which Blackadder explains how the First World War started; the running gag of Baldrick using mud and bodily fluids to make coffee throughout the episode was greatly expanded during rehearsals.

The episode's title is a reference to the popular First World War song "Good-bye-ee!", which was based on a catchphrase of the comedian Harry Tate. The song is also heard in an earlier episode—"Major Star". The title is a departure from those of previous Blackadder Goes Forth episodes, which are puns on military ranks.

During the filming of the episode, which took place before a studio audience at BBC Television Centre, Rowan Atkinson described sharing his character's dread of impending death and feeling a "knot in the pit of my stomach", something that he had never experienced. Hugh Laurie said that filming was sad because "even for comic effect, we were representing the deaths of hundreds of thousands of people". Regarding guest star Geoffrey Palmer, the producer John Lloyd said "[We] probably could have given [him] more attention", calling him "a wonderful actor" who is "really just delivering three or four plot lines [pieces of dialogue essential to the plot]".

The slow motion and fade effects at the end of the episode were not scripted, but the decision to use them was made in editing after the final scene was hastily filmed on an unconvincing polystyrene set, ruining the poignancy of the sequence; the episode's director Richard Boden added the poppy field image. The piano version of the theme tune was performed by Howard Goodall and recorded in a gymnasium, giving it what Lloyd described as a "liquid, lonely sound". The episode's end credits were omitted. Tim McInnerny did not know about these changes before the episode aired, and has said that he found the ending particularly emotional.

Themes
In the episode, Field Marshal Haig is shown casually sweeping away toy soldiers with a dustpan and brush; BBC News Magazines Finlo Rohrer called this a "visual allusion to his callousness", but quoted the historian Gary Sheffield as saying "The real Field Marshal Haig was certainly not a callous man. He was commanding the largest British army ever. Whatever he did, you ended up with lots and lots of casualties." Sheffield also noted that "Melchett is an amalgam of Haig and John French and the other generals", so Haig effectively "appears twice". The series, especially the storyline of "Goodbyeee", often depicts the "lions led by donkeys" perception of the War, an element of Blackadder Goes Forth that has been criticised by historians.

In his book The Great War, Ian F. W. Beckett also cited Sheffield: the latter commented that Blackadder Goes Forth was successful because "the characters and situations needed no explanation, so familiar was the audience with the received version of the war". Beckett noted the popularity of the episode's final scene, and compared it to a similarly popular scene from Dad's Army. He said that this comparison demonstrates the observation made by historian A. J. P. Taylor that the Second World War has been regarded as a "good war" in compar