[Organic Chemistry for Advanced Students — Gutenberg #38709]

cardinal prefect is found that section of the Propaganda which deals with matters concerning oriental rites (_Congregatio specialis pro negotiis ritus Orientalis_), the object of which is indicated by its name. To the former were attached two commissions, one for the approbation of those religious congregations which devote themselves to missions, which is now transferred to the Congregation of the Religious Orders; the other for the examination of the reports sent in by the bishops and vicars apostolic on their dioceses or missions. With the latter is connected the commission for the examination of the liturgical books of the East (_Commissio pro corrigendis libris ecclesiae Orientalis_). Finally, the popes have devoted to the missions the income arising from the Chamber of Spoils (_Camera Spoliorum_), i.e. that portion of the revenue from church property which cannot be bequeathed by the holders of benefices as their own property; this source of income, however, has decreased greatly. Index. (9) The Congregation of the Index (_Congregatio indicis librorum prohibitorum_), founded by St Pius V. in 1571 and reorganized by Sixtus V., has as its object the examination and the condemnation or interdiction of bad or dangerous books which are submitted to it, or, since the constitution "_Sapienti_," of those which it thinks fit to examine on its own initiative (see INDEX). Rites. (10) The Congregation of Rites (_Congregatio sacrorum Rituum_), founded by Sixtus V., has exclusive charge of the liturgy and liturgical books; it also deals with the proceedings in the beatification and canonization of saints. Of late years there have been added to it a Liturgical Commission, a Historico-liturgical Commission, and a Commission for church song, the functions of which are sufficiently indicated by their names. Ceremonial. (11) The Ceremonial Congregation (_Sacra Congregatio caeremonialis_), the prefect of which is the cardinal dean, was instituted by Sixtus V.; its mission is to settle questions of precedence and etiquette, especially at the papal court; it is nowadays but little occupied. Indulgences. (12) The Congregation of Indulgences and Relics (_Sacra Congregatio Indulgentiarum et Sacrarum Reliquiarum_), founded in 1669 by Clement IX., devoted itself to eradicating any abuses which might creep into the practice of indulgences and the cult of relics. It had also the duty of considering applications for the concession of indulgences and of interpreting the rules with regard to them. In 1904 Pius X. attached this Congregation to that of Rites, making the _personnel_ of both the same, without suppressing it. In 1908, however, it was suppressed, as stated above, and its functions as to indulgences were transferred to the Holy Office, and those as to relics to the Congregation of Rites. Fabric of St Peter's. (13) The Congregation of the Fabric of St Peter's (_Sacra Congregatio reverendae Fabricae S. Petri_) is charged with the upkeep, repairs and temporal administration of the great basilica; in this capacity it controls the famous manufacture of the Vatican mosaics. It also formerly enjoyed certain spiritual powers for the reduction of the obligations imposed by pious legacies and foundations, the objects of which, for want of funds or any other reason, could not be fully carried out, and for the condonation of past omission of such obligations, e.g. of priests to celebrate the foundation masses of their benefices. In 1908 these powers were taken away from it by Pius X., and transferred to the Congregation of the Council, which already exercised some of them. (14) The Congregation of Loretto (_Congregatio Lauretana_) discharged the same functions for the sanctuary of that name; its temporal administration was latterly very much reduced, and in 1908 it was united by Pius X. with the Congregation of the Council. Extraordinary affairs. (15) The Congregation for extraordinary ecclesiastical affairs (_Sacra Congregatio super negotiis ecclesiasticis extraordinariis_), established by Pius VI. at the end of the 18th century to study the difficult questions relative to France, was afterwards definitively continued by Pius VII.; and there has been no lack of fresh extraordinary matters. It also dealt with the administration of the churches of Latin America, not to mention certain European countries, such as Russia, under the same conditions as the Propaganda in countries under missions. Since the constitution _Sapienti_, its competency has been confined to the examination, at the request of the secretary of state, of questions which are submitted to it, and especially those arising from civil laws and concordats. Studies. (16) The Congregation of Studies (_Congregatio pro Universitate studii Romani, Congregazione degli Studi_), founded by Sixtus V. to act as a higher council for the Roman university of La Sapienza, had ceased to have any functions when in 1824 it was re-established by Leo XII. to supervise education in Rome and the Papal States; since 1870 it has been exclusively concerned with the Catholic universities, so far as the sacred sciences are concerned. With this should be connected the commission for historical studies, instituted in 1883 by Leo XIII., at the same time as he threw the Vatican archives freely open to scholars. Tribunals and offices. III. _The Tribunals and Offices._--Though it has been relieved of the functions allotted to the Congregations of cardinals, the old machinery of the ecclesiastical administration has not been abolished; and the process of centralization which has been accentuated in the course of the last few centuries, together with the facility of communication, ensured for them a fresh activity, new offices having even been added. The chief thing to be observed is that the prelates who were formerly at the head of these departments have almost all been replaced by cardinals. The following is the list of the tribunals and offices, including the changes introduced by the reorganization of the Curia by Pius X. in 1908. The tribunals are three in number: one for the _forum internum_, the Penitentiary; the other two for judicial matters _in foro externo_, the Rota and the papal Signatura. Penitentiary. (1) The Penitentiary (_Sacra poenitentiaria Apostolica_) is the tribunal having exclusive jurisdiction in matters of conscience (_in foro interno_), e.g. dispensations from secret impediments and private vows, the absolution of reserved cases. These concessions are applied for anonymously. It also had, previously to the constitution _Sapienti_, a certain jurisdiction _in foro externo_, such as over matrimonial dispensations for poor people. Its concessions are absolutely gratuitous. Since the 12th century, the papal court had already had officials known as penitentiaries (_poenitentiarii_) for matters of conscience; the organization of the Penitentiary, after several modifications, was renewed by Benedict XIV. in 1748. At the head of it is the cardinal grand penitentiary (_major poenitentiarius_), assisted by the _regens_ (It. _regente_) and various other functionaries and officials. Rota. (2) The court of the Rota (_Sacra Rota Romana_) used to be the supreme ecclesiastical tribunal for civil affairs, and its decisions had great authority. This tribunal goes back at least as far as the 14th century, but its activity had been reduced as a result of the more expeditious and summary, and less costly, procedure of the Congregations. The constitution _Sapienti_ restored the Rota to existence and activity: it is now once more the ecclesiastical court of appeal for both civil and criminal cases. Pius X. also made special regulations for it, by which its ancient usages are adapted to modern circumstances. The tribunal of the Rota consists of ten judges called auditors (_uditori_), of whom the most senior is president with the title of dean. Each judge has an auxiliary; to the tribunal are attached a _promotor fiscalis_, charged with the duty of securing the due application of the law, and an official charged with the defence of marriage and ordination; there is also a clerical staff (notaries, scribes) attached to the court. Cases are judged by three auditors, who succeed each other periodically (_per turnum_) according to the order in which the cases are entered, and in exceptional cases by all the auditors (_videntibus omnibus_). Under the jurisdiction of the Rota, in addition to cases of first instance submitted to it by the pope, are such judgments of episcopal courts as are strictly speaking subject to appeal; for petitions against non-judicial decisions are referred to the Congregations. Appeal is sometimes allowed from one "turn" to another; if the second sentence of the Rota confirms the first, it is definitive; if not, a third may be obtained. Signatura. (3) The supreme tribunal of the papal Signatura (_Signatura Apostolica_). There were formerly two sections: the Signatura Justitiae and the Signatura Gratiae; by the constitution _Sapientis_ they were suppressed and amalgamated into one body, the Signatura Apostolica, which is the exact equivalent of other modern courts of cassation. This tribunal is composed of six cardinals, one of whom is the prefect, assisted by a prelate secretary, consultors and the necessary inferior officials. It judges cases in which auditors of the Rota are concerned, such as personal objections, but especially objections (_querelae_) lodged against sentences of the Rota, with a view to their being annulled or revised (_restitutio in integrum_). Next come the offices, now reduced to six in number. Chancery. Bull. (1) The Chancery (_Cancellaria Apostolica_), the department from which are sent out the papal letters, has for a long time drawn up only those letters written in solemn form known as bulls. The bull, so called from the leaden seal (_bulla_), is written on thick parchment; the special writing known as Lombard, which used to be used for bulls, was abolished by Leo XIII., and the leaden seal reserved for the more important letters; on the others it has been replaced by a red ink stamp bearing both the emblems represented on the leaden seal: the two heads, face to face, of St Peter and St Paul, and the name of the reigning pope. Bulls are written in the name of the pope, who styles himself "(_Pius_) _Episcopus servus servorum Dei_; (Pius), bishop, servant of the servants of God." They were formerly dated by kalends and from the era of the Incarnation, which begins on the 25th of March, but in 1908 Pius X. ordered them to be dated according to the common era. It is practically only bulls of canonization which are signed by the pope and all the cardinals present in Rome; the signature of the pope is then "(_Pius_) _Episcopus Ecclesiae catholicae_," while his ordinary signature bears only his name and number, "Pius PP. X." Ordinary bulls are signed by several officials of the chancery, and a certain number only by the cardinal at its head, who until 1908 was styled vice-chancellor, because the chancellor used formerly to be a prelate, not a cardinal; but since the constitution _Sapienti_ has been entitled chancellor. He is assisted by several officials, beginning with the regens of the chancery. To the chancery were attached the _abbreviatores de parco majori vel minori_ (see ABBREVIATORS), formerly charged with the drawing up