# Darling Heights, Queensland

Darling Heights is a rural residential locality in the Toowoomba Region, Queensland, Australia. In the , Darling Heights had a population of 5,157 people.

Geography

Darling Heights lies on the southern edge of the city, on the west ridge. The land falls away steeply to the west toward Drayton, the slope being occupied by detached bungalow housing with an admixture of larger homes, duplexes and small blocks of units. Most of these dwellings are less than 10 years old, the area having previously been mostly horse paddocks, of which few remain. The homes and businesses in the western part of Darling Heights are considered part of Drayton. To the east, the upper valley of West Creek forms the suburb of Kearneys Spring, the western part of which is considered part of Darling Heights by many people. The southern part of the suburb is an area of acreage blocks and small farms. To the north lies the suburb of Harristown.

History 
Darling Heights was named by Queensland Place Names Board on 1 January 1966 with boundaries confirmed on 1 June 1981. The name was originally proposed to be College Heights to reflect the new university college that was being planned for the area, but, when it was expected that the college would be called the Darling Downs Institute of Technology, the name Darling Heights was preferred. In 1992, the institute it was renamed the University of Southern Queensland.

Darling Heights State School opened on 29 January 1980.

Demographics
In the , Darling Heights had a population of 5,192 people. Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people made up 3.9% of the population. 62.9% of people were born in Australia. The most common countries of birth were India 6.8% and Iraq 4.0%. 65.8% of people only spoke English at home. Other languages spoken at home included Arabic 5.4%, Telugu 2.7% and Mandarin 2.1%. The most common responses for religion were Catholic 20.2%, No Religion 18.6%, Anglican 11.8% and Islam 9.2%.

In the , Darling Heights had a population of 5,157 people.

Education
Darling Heights State School is a government primary (Prep-6) school for boys and girls at Wuth Street (). In 2017, the school had an enrolment of 690 students with 57 teachers (53 full-time equivalent) and 49 non-teaching staff (33 full-time equivalent). It includes a special education program and an intensive English language program.

There are no secondary schools in Darling Heights. The nearest government secondary school is Harristown State High School in neighbouring Harristown to the north.

The University of Southern Queensland is a campus in Darling Heights; it was the first campus developed for the university.

Public transport

Darling Heights is served by the Number 901 Toowoomba City Bus route, which winds through the suburb.

Additionally, the University of Southern Queensland acts as a major terminus, with services to the City, KMart Plaza and Clifford Gardens regularly 9:00am to 5:00pm Monday to Friday.

Despite the Queensland Rail line from Toowoomba to Drayton and southwards forming the western boundary of the suburb, there are no passenger rail services in this area.

Attractions
 Ju Raku En Japanese Garden, a 4.5 hectare traditionally designed, Japanese stroll garden. 
 Darling Heights Post Office (at the USQ Campus on the ground floor of W Block)
 Uni Plaza, a strip mall with a variety of specialist retailers, eateries and services. (Officially in Kearneys Spring as it is on the east side of West Street)

References

External links

 

Suburbs of Toowoomba
Localities in Queensland