[The Electron Theory of Matter — Gutenberg #10015]

It was Deekin PERKINS comein' to "bust my gizzard." "Hevings and airth," sed the Deekin as he tumbled over in the entry way. I jumped behind a door, emejutly, and as the farmers proceeded to polish off the Deekin, I was willin' to forgive both of 'em, as the Deekin groaned and yelled. Yes siree! it was soothin' fun for me, to see them farmers welt the Deekin. Steelin' up stairs agin, I was brushin' off my clothes, when in walks EBENEZER. "Sawtel," said he, ceasin' me by the cote coller and shakin' me, "Ile larn you to rite about steelin' sugar; take that--and that," at which he let fly his bute, and down stairs I went agin--Eben urgin' me on with his bute.-- Suffice to say, the whole village called on me that day, and I was kicked down stairs 32 times by the watch.--Hosswhipt by 17 wimmen--besides bein' stuck full of needles by a lot more. I got so used to bein' kicked down stairs, that evry time a man come in the door, I would place my back towards him and sing out: "Kick away, my friend, I'm in the Editorial biziness to-day--to-morrow I go hents--there's rather too much exsitement runnin' a noosepaper, and I shall resine this evenin." When I got home that nite, I looked like an angel carryin' a palm-leaf fan in his hand, and clothed in purple and fine linen. My body was purpler than a huckleberry pie, and my linen was torn into pieces finer than a postage-stamp. "Sarved you rite, you old fool," said Mrs. GREEN, as she stood rubbin' camfire onto me. "In ritin' noosepaper articles, editors orter name their man. A shoe which hain't bilt for anybody in particular, will get onto evrybody in general's foot. When it does, the bilder had better get ready for numerous bootin's, from that self-same shoe." Between you and I, PUNCHINELLO, MARIAH is about 1/2 rite. Too-rally ewers. HIRAM: GREEN, ESQ., _Lait Gustise of the Peece._ * * * * * COMIC ZOOLOGY Order, Cetacea.--The Right (and wrong) Whale. The largest of the Cetacea is the Right whale, of which--so persistently is it hunted down--there will soon be but few Left. Some flippant jokist has remarked that there is no Wrong whale, but this is all Oily Gammon. There is a right and a wrong to everything--not excepting the leviathan of the deep. By the courtesy of the Fisheries, the planting of a harpoon in the vitals of a Right whale gives the planter a pre-emption claim to it. If subsequently appropriated by another party it becomes, so far as that party is concerned, the Wrong whale, and on Trying the case its value may be recovered in a court of law,--with Whaling costs. The sperm whale, or cachalot, (genus _physeter_) is a rare visitor in the higher latitudes. Now and then a solitary specimen is taken in the Northern Atlantic, but the best place to catch a lot is on the Pacific coast. It may be mentioned incidentally, as a curious meteorological coincidence, that Whales and Waterspouts are invariably seen together, and hence it was, (perhaps,) that the long-necked cloud pointed out by HAMLET to POLONIUS, reminded that old Grampus of a Whale. The favorite food of the great marine mammal of the Pacific is the Squid, and as this little creature swarms in the vicinity of Hawaii, the cachalot instinctively goes there at certain seasons to chew its Squid by way of a Sandwich. Although the capture of the whale involves an immense amount of Paying Out before anything can be realized, it has probably always been a lucrative pursuit. The great fish seems, however, to have yielded the greatest Prophet in the days of JONAH. No man since then has enjoyed the same facilities for forming a true estimate of the value of the monster, that were vouchsafed to that singular man. Perhaps during his visit to Nineveh he entertained the Ninnies with a learned lecture on the subject, but if so, it has not turned up to reward the research of modern Archaeologists. LAYARD found the word JONAH inscribed among the ruins of the old Assyrian city, but the name of the ancient mariner was unaccompanied by any mention of the whale. All the whale family, though apparently phlegmatic, are somewhat given to Blowing up, and, when about to die, instead of taking the matter coolly and philosophically, they are always terribly Flurried. In fact, the whale, when in _articulo mortis_, makes a more tremendous rumpus about its latter end than any other animal either of the sea or land. The Right whale, though many people make Light of it, is unquestionably the heaviest of living creatures. Scales never contained anything so ponderous. But while conceding to Leviathan the proud title of Monarch of the Deep, it should be remarked that it has a rival on the land, known as Old King Coal, that completely takes the Shine out of it. * * * * * THE WATERING PLACES. Punchinello's Vacations. At Newport, one cannot fail to perceive a certain atmosphere of blue blood--but it must not be understood, from this expression, that the air is filled with cerulean gore. Mr. P. merely wished to remark that the society at that watering place is very aristocratic. He felt the influence himself, although he staid there only a few days. His aristocratic impulses all came out. Whether they staid out or not remains to be seen. But no matter. He found many of the best people in Newport, and he felt congenial. When a fellow sits at his wine with men like JOHN T. HOFFMAN, and AUGUST BELMONT, and PARAN STEVENS; and takes the air with Mrs. J.F., Jr., behind her delightful four-in-hand, he is apt to feel a little "uppish." If anyone doubts it let him try it. At the Atlantic Hotel they gave Mr. P. the room which had been recently vacated by Gov. PADELFORD. He was glad to hear this. He liked the room a great deal better when he heard that the Governor wasn't there any more. The first walk that he took on the beach proved to him that this was no place for illiterate snobs and shoddyites. Everybody talked of high moral aims, or questions of deep import, (especially the high tariff Congressmen,) and even the little girls who were sitting in the shade, (with big white umbrellas over them to keep the freckles off,) were puzzling their heads over charades and enigmas, instead of running around and making little Frou-Frous of themselves. Mr. P. composed an enigma for a group of these young students. Said he: "My first is a useless expense. My second is a useless expense. My third is a useless expense. My fourth is a useless expense. My fifth is a useless expense. My sixth is a useless expense, and so is my eighth, ninth, tenth, and eleventh, and all the rest of my parts, of which there are three hundred and fifty. My whole is a useless expense, and sits at Washington." The dear little girls were not long in guessing this ingenious enigma and while they were rejoicing over their success, Mr. P. was suddenly addressed by a man who had been standing behind him. Starting little, he turned around and was thus addressed by his unknown listener. "Sir," said that individual, "do I understand you to mean that the Congress of the United States is a useless expense?" "Well, sir," said Mr. P., with a smile, "as it costs a great deal and does very little, I cannot but think it is both useless and expensive." "Then sir," said the other, "you must think the whole institution is a nuisance generally." "You put it very strongly," said Mr. P., "but I fear that you are about right." "Sir!" cried the gentleman, his face beaming with an indescribable expression. "Give me your hand! I am glad to know you. I agree with you exactly. My name is WHITTEMORE." But Mr. P. did not waste all his time in talking to strangers and concocting enigmas. He had come to Newport with a purpose. It was none of the ordinary purposes of watering place visitors. These he could carry out elsewhere. His object in coming here was grand, unusual and romantic. _He came to be rescued by IDA LEWIS!_ It was not easy to devise a plan for this noble design, and it was not until the morning of the second day of his visit, that Mr. P. was ready for the adventure. Then he hired a boat, and set sail, alone, o'er the boundless bosom of the Atlantic. He had not sailed more than a few hours on said boundless bosom, before he turned his prow back towards land,--towards the far-famed Lime Rocks, on which the intrepid heroine dwells. He had thought of being wrecked at night, but fearing that IDA might not be able to find him in the dark, he gave up this idea. His present intention was that Miss LEWIS should believe him to be a lonely mariner from a far distance, tossed by the angry waves upon her rock-bound coast But there was a certain difficulty in the way, which Mr. P. feared would prove fatal to his hopes. The sea was just as smooth as glass! And the wind all died away! There was not enough left to ruffle a squirrel's tail. How absurd the situation! How could he ever be dashed helpless upon the rocks under such circumstances? The tide was setting in, and as he gradually drifted towards the land, he saw the storied rocks, and even perceived Miss IDA, sitting upon a shady prominence, crocheting a tidy. What should he do to attract her attention? How put himself in imminent peril? His anxiety for a time was dreadful, but he thought of a plan. He got out his knife and whittled the mast half through. "Now," thought he, "if my mast and rigging go by the board, she will surely come and rescue me!" But the mast and rigging were as obstinate as outside speculators in Wall street,--they would not go by the board,--and Mr. P. was obliged at last to break down the mast by main force. But the lady heard not the awful crash, and little weened that a fellow-being was out alone on the wild watery waste, in a shipwrecked bark! After waiting for some time, that she might ween this terrible truth, Mr. P, concluded that there was nothing to do but to spring a leak. But he found this difficult. Kick as hard as he might, he could not loosen a bottom board. And he had no auger! The Lime Rocks were getting nearer and nearer.