[Organic Chemistry for Advanced Students — Gutenberg #38709]

protoplasm flagella or cilia. These represent modified pseudopodia, and in the formation of the motile gametes of some of the lower forms, e.g. Myxomycetes (de Bary, 1859), Rhizopods (R. Hertwig, 1874), &c., the actual conversion of a pseudopodium into a flagellum can be witnessed. These vibratile processes may be either one or few in number, and are then large in size and move independently of one another; or they may be very numerous, covering the free surface of the cell (fig. 2, a); they are then very small and move strictly in unison. In the former case they are termed "flagella," in the latter "cilia." In some cases the flagellum is accompanied by an undulating membrane (e.g. Trypanosoma among the protozoa and in many spermatozoa), and it may be situated either at the front end (Euglena) or hind end (spermatozoa) of the body during motion. The cilia may form a uniform coating to the free surface of the cell, as in ciliated epithelium (fig. 2, a) and many infusoria, or the cilia may be variously modified and restricted to special regions of the body, e.g. the "undulating membrane" of the peristomial region in many infusoria, the swimming combs of the Ctenophora (q.v.), and the flame cells of the Platyelmia (q.v.). In one group of infusoria (Hypotricha), the cilia, "cirri," have attained a high degree of differentiation, and reach a considerable size. Both cilia and flagella spring directly from the cell-protoplasm, piercing the cell-membrane, when this is present. At the point where they become continuous with the cell-body there is usually a deeply staining "basal granule." In some cases the flagella are in direct connexion with the centrosome (see below, _Cell-division_), e.g. Trypanosoma and spermatozoa, in some cases even while the centrosome is functioning in mitosis (e.g. insect spermatogenesis, Henneguy[10] and Meves[11] (fig. 3). [Illustration: From A. Gurwitsch, _Morphologie und Biologie der Zelle_, by permission of Gustav Fischer. FIG. 2.--Types of Cells. a, Ciliated epithelial cells. (After Heidenhain.) b, Mucus-secreting "goblet"-cells. (After Gurwitsch.)] [Illustration: From O. Hertwig, _Allgemeine Biologie_, by permission of Gustav Fischer. FIG. 3.--Spermatocytes of _Bombyx mori_, showing the precocious appearance of the spermatozoon flagellum and its relation to the centrosome. (After Henneguy.)] In the ability of _Amoeba_ to contract into a spherical mass, and in the presence in its protoplasm of the contractile vacuole, we see another type of spontaneous movement--contractility--of the protoplasm. In the "musculo-epithelial" cells of _Hydra_, the elongated basal portion of the cell alone possesses this contractility. In the higher Metazoa the whole cell--muscle cell--is specialized for contractility, and shows, as a result of its specialization, a distinct fibrillation. This fibrillation is foreshadowed in the contractile regions of many Protozoa, e.g. in the cirri of hypotrichous Infusoria, the tentacle of _Noctiluca_, and the myophane layer of Gregarines. In the quickly contracting muscle cell of Vertebrates and insects, further specialization has produced a structure of considerable complexity (fig. 1, b). Here also the cell is fibrillated, but the fibrillae (sarcostyles) are much more distinct, and are segmented in a manner which gives to the entire cell a "cross striated" appearance. Since quick movement is usually (but not always) associated with voluntary control, these striated muscle cells are often termed "voluntary" muscle fibres. The great increase in length of these cells is accompanied by the fragmentation of the originally single nucleus. (b) _Cell-modification in Relation to Secretion._--Just as the complex movements considered above were the result of a great development of the power of spontaneous movement possessed by all protoplasm, so cell-secretion is the result of a development of the metabolic processes underlying all vital phenomena. But whereas specialization of the protoplasm for movement resulted in a very obvious morphological complexity, specialization for secretion results in molecular complexity, and only rarely and indirectly results in morphological differentiation. Usually indeed the specialization is only rendered evident by the appearance of the formed secretion, e.g. mucus-secreting epithelial cells (fig. 2, b), the ovarian ovum and the fat cell (fig. 1, a). In some cases a distinct fibrillation of the cytoplasm accompanies or precedes the appearance of the cell-secretion (Mathews, pancreas cell of Amphibia). In many cases the internal secretion is no mere accumulation, e.g. the internal skeleton of the Radiolaria, and the nematocysts of the Coelentera. Frequently in animal tissues the cell-secretions are accumulated in the intercellular spaces, and result in the formation of the various "connective tissues," all of which are characterized by the immense amount of intercellular substance, e.g. fibrous tissue, cartilage and bone. Cell-modifications facilitating the general metabolism, but not necessarily indicating specialized secretion, also occur, e.g. the "gullet" of many Protozoa, the suctorial tubules of the Acinetaria, and the "nutritive processes" of the ovarian ova in many Lepidoptera. Mention may be made here of the network or canal system of the cytoplasm, described for many cells by Golgi, Holgren and others. An enigmatical structure, the "yolk-nucleus" of many ova, has been frequently regarded as a structure of considerable metabolic importance, e.g. Bambeke (1898) for _Pholcus_.[12] [Illustration: FIG. 4.--Types of Nuclei. From Prof. E. B. Wilson's The Cell in _Development and Inheritance_, by permission of the author and of the Macmillan Co., New York. a, Permanent spireme-nuclei in cells from the intestinal epithelium of a dipterous larva, _Ptychoptera_. (After van Gehuchten.) From Korschelt and Heider, _Lehrbuch der verg. Entwicklungsgeschichte der wirbellosen Tiere_, by permission of Gustav Fischer. b, Branched nucleus of the "nutritive" cell, from a portion of an ovarial tube of _Forficula auricularia_.] Striking modifications resulting from specialization in secretion are frequently presented by the nucleus. In many secreting cells this structure is extensively branched, e.g. many gland cells and ovarian nutritive cells of insects (fig. 4, b). In some cases the nucleus of the gland cell contains a persistent spireme thread (fig. 4, a); while almost all actively secreting cells are characterized by the possession of large or numerous nucleoli. [Illustration: From Schäfer's _Essentials of Histology_, by permission of Longmans, Green & Co. FIG. 5.--Nervous and Sensory Cells. A and B, Ganglion cells from the cerebral cortex; in A the only slightly branched axon may extend the whole length of the spinal cord. (After Schäfer.) C, Body of a ganglion-cell showing "Nissl's granules." D, Sensory cells from olfactory epithelium. (After Schultze.) E, Diagrammatic representation of the sensory epithelium of retina (rod and cone layer). (After Schwalbe.)] (c) _Specialization for the Reception and Conduction of Stimuli._--One of the most striking of the fundamental attributes of living protoplasm is its "irritability," that is to say, its power of responding to external impressions, "stimuli," by movement, which, both in kind and intensity, is wholly independent of the amount of energy expended by the stimulus. The stimulus conveyed by the nerve fibre to the muscle is out of all proportion to the amount of work it may cause the muscle to do. Although protoplasmic irritability is thus incapable of a simple mechanical explanation, science has rejected the assumption of a special "vital force," and interprets protoplasmic response as being a long series of chemico-physical changes,[13] initiated, but only initiated, by the original stimulus; the latter thus standing in the same relation to the response it produces as the pull on the trigger to the propulsion of the rifle bullet. The function of receiving stimuli from the outer world, originally possessed to a greater or less extent by all cells, has, in the Metazoa, been relegated to one class of cells, the sensory cells[14] (fig. 5, D and E). Another class of cells--the "ganglion cells" or "neurones" (fig. 5, A and B), are concerned with the conduction of the stimuli so received. The contractile elements in the Metazoa are thus dependent for their stimuli on the nervous elements--the sensory cells and neurones. _Origin of Cells._--In the preceding sections we have considered the structure of the cell in relation to the fundamental attributes of cell-metabolism, irritability, and movement. We have now to consider the cell in relation to yet another vital attribute, that of reproduction. Just as we now know that the phenomena of assimilation, respiration, excretion, response, movement and so forth, characteristic of living things, are but the co-ordinated expressions of the corresponding activities of the constituent cells, so we now know that the reproduction of the organism is, in its ultimate analysis, a cell-process. Our knowledge of the essential fact that cells only arise by the division of pre-existing cells, now a fundamental axiom of biology, and of the details of this process, have been acquired during recent years by the strenuous efforts of numerous workers.[15] Matthias Jakob Schleiden (1838) supposed that in plants the new cell arose from the parent cell by a sort of "crystallizing" process from the cell fluid or "cytoblastema"; the nucleolus appearing first, then the nucleus, and finally the cell-body. Theodor Schwann (1839) extended Schleiden's theory to animal tissues, with this yet greater error, that new cells might arise, not only within the mother cell as Schleiden had supposed, but also in the intercellular substance so common in animal tissues (to which he also gave the term "cytoblastema"). By 1846, however, the botanists, thanks mainly to the efforts of Hugo von Mohl and Nägeli, recognized as a general law that cells only arise by the division of a pre-existing cell. But it was long before the universal application of this law was recognized by zoologists; the delay being largely due to pathological phenomena. The work of Kölliker (1844-1845), Karl Bogislaus Reichert (1841-1847), and Remak (1852-1855), however, finally enabled Virchow in 1858 to maintain the law of the genetic continuity of cells in the since famous aphorism _omnis cellula e cellula_. At this time, however, nothing was known of the details of cell-division,--one school (Reichert, L. Auerbach, and the majority of the botanists) maintaining that the nucleus disappeared prior to cell-division, the other school (von Baer, Remak, Leydig, Haeckel, &c.) maintaining that it took a leading part in the process. It is not until the appearance of Anton Schneider's work in 1873, followed by those of Fol, Auerbach, Strasburger and many others, that we begin to gain an insight into the process. In 1882 W. Flemming was able to extend Virchow's aphorism to the nucleus also: _omnis nucleus e nucleo_. _Outline of Cell-division._--There are two very distinct methods of cell-division. The more general and also more complicated method is accompanied by the formation of a complex fibrillar mechanism, and was on this account termed "mitosis" ([Greek: mitos], a thread) by W. Flemming (1882), and "karyokinesis" ([Greek: karyon], nut, nucleus, and [Greek: kinêsis], change, movement) by W. Schleicher (1878). The other method, "amitosis," or direct division, is unaccompanied by any visible mechanism and is of relatively exceptional occurrence. In the more usual method of cell-division, or "mitosis," we can distinguish two distinct but parallel processes, the one undergone by the chromatin and resulting in the