# Andy Morrison

Andrew Charles Morrison (born 30 July 1970) is a Scottish football manager and former footballer who is currently head coach of the Sri Lanka national team.

As a player he was a central defender who played in the Premier League with Blackburn Rovers and Manchester City. Although only playing 38 League games over four seasons for City he captained the club in the 1999 Football League Second Division play-off final victory over Gillingham and would play for the club in three different divisions. He also played in the Football League for Plymouth Argyle, Blackpool, Crystal Palace, and Sheffield United.

Following retirement, Morrison became assistant manager of Bury, later having a similar role at Northwich Victoria and Airbus UK Broughton. He later had a spell as director of football of Connah's Quay Nomads before going on to manage the club for six years. He has also mixed his coaching roles with being the fan ambassador for Manchester City.

Playing career

Early career
Born in Inverness though a native of Kinlochbervie, Morrison moved to Plymouth at the age of eight. At the age of 13, Morrison had a trial at Southampton along with 39 other hopefuls including Alan Shearer, Tim Flowers and Matt Le Tissier. Morrison began his career at Plymouth Argyle. He made his Football League debut as a substitute in a 5–2 defeat at Aston Villa, in 1987, in which David Platt scored the winning goal. Morrison did not establish himself in the Argyle first team until the 1989–90 season. An uncompromising centre-half with a broad Plymothian accent, Morrison scored his first senior goal in a 1–0 win at home to Ipswich Town in March 1990.

Morrison was a regular fixture in the Plymouth side under manager Dave Kemp, but the arrival of Peter Shilton as player-manager in February 1991 marked the beginning of the end of his time at Plymouth. Morrison took exception to Shilton's managerial style, while Shilton, for his part, was keen to cash in on one of his most saleable assets to bring in signings of his own. Morrison spent one final season at Home Park following the club's relegation from the second tier in 1992, before Shilton accepted a £500,000 offer from Blackburn Rovers, then managed by Kenny Dalglish.

Blackburn Rovers

Morrison made 5 appearances for Blackburn Rovers in the 1993–94 season, in which the club finished second in the premier league. He made his Premier League debut for the club when he replaced Tim Sherwood in a 3–0 victory over Wimbledon F.C. in February 1994. Morrison started, and almost scored, in a 1–0 defeat to Charlton Athletic in the FA Cup. He subsequently replaced Kevin Moran in a 1–0 defeat to Arsenal (in which Paul Merson scored the winner) and David Batty in a 3–1 defeat to Southampton (in which Stuart Ripley scored Blackburn's goal). Morrison started for Blackburn in a 2–1 victory against West Ham United (in which Henning Berg and Ian Pearce scored Blackburn's goals) in April 1994. His last game for Blackburn was a 2–1 defeat to Coventry City, in May 1994, which ended Blackburn's title hopes that season. Morrison was given a 'torrid time' by Peter Ndlovu in the game and later claimed that Ndlovu had ruined his career with Blackburn. Morrison also played for Blackburn's reserve team, alongside Shay Given and former Plymouth teammate Nicky Marker. Morrison played in the reserve team defeat against Manchester United's reserve team, which featured Bryan Robson and Dion Dublin, in which Marker's tackle on Ben Thornley led to the latter being sidelined for over a year and ultimately to legal action. Morrison was unable to break into the Rovers side on a regular basis, as he faced competition from Colin Hendry, Henning Berg and Ian Pearce. Morrison began the 1994–95 season as a member of the Blackburn squad that went on to win the Premier League that season. He was an unused substitute in the 1994 FA Charity Shield in which Blackburn were beaten 2–0 by Manchester United after goals from Eric Cantona and Paul Ince. In December 1994 Morrison was bought by Sam Allardyce for Blackpool. The transfer fee was £245,000, which was then a Blackpool club-record. Celtic F.C. were also interested in Morrison, but ended up signing John Hughes from Falkirk F.C.

Blackpool
Allardyce described Morrison as a "horrible in-your-face" centre-back and a "complete nutter". Morrison made his debut for the Tangerines on 10 December, in a 3–1 victory over AFC Bournemouth. He was suspended for the next two games, however, after picking up a booking during the match and, thus, hitting the relevant number of disciplinary points. Morrison spent two years at Blackpool and was made club captain by Allardyce In a match against Plymouth Argyle, in January of the 1994–95, Morrison was moved from defence into midfield, at half time (at which time Blackpool were losing 2–0), which proved to be the catalyst for a 5–2 victory. In the 1995–96 season Blackpool finished in the playoff places. Blackpool won the first leg of their play-off game against Bradford City (who were managed by Chris Kamara) 2–0. Kamara changed his tactics in the second leg, to dissipate Morrison's influence in the game, and Blackpool were defeated 3–0. Bradford went on to beat Notts County in the final to earn promotion. Blackpool's defeat led to Allardyce's departure. Morrison also moved on from Blackpool.

Huddersfield Town

Morrison was signed by Brian Horton for Huddersfield Town in the 1996–97 season. Horton used the £2.7 million that Sheffield Wednesday had used to purchase Andy Booth from Huddersfield, to invest in Morrison as well as Marcus Stewart from Bristol Rovers and Andy Payton from Barnsley. Horton, like Allardyce before him, also made Morrison captain. Morrison scored in his debut for Huddersfield against Charlton (which Huddersfield won 2–0). Morrison's Huddersfield teammate Ben Thornley described him as 'the hardest person to have ever played football'. Morrison won the respect of fans 'with his braveheart style warrior performances'. A knee injury restricted Morrison's appearances for Huddersfield in the 1996–97 season. He was replaced by Sam Collins in a 1–0 defeat to Tranmere Rovers in September 1996 and did not play for Huddersfield again until a 0–0 draw with Manchester City in November 1996, in which he was replaced by Kevin Gray just after half time. He did not play again until April 1997 when he replaced David Beresford, at half time, in a 2–1 defeat to Charlton Athletic. In the 1997–98 season, Morrison played in Huddersfield's 3–0 defeat to West Ham United in the League Cup, in which John Hartson scored a hat trick. He also played in Huddersfield's 1–0 defeat to Wimbledon, in the FA Cup, in which Neal Ardley scored the only goal. Huddersfield's poor results in the league that season (they went nine games without a win) led to Horton being sacked. Horton was replaced by Peter Jackson, who managed to keep the team up. Morrison played in Huddersfield's first victory that season, a 3–1 win against Stoke City (in which Lee Richardson, Stewart and Paul Dalton scored Huddersfield's goals). He also played in Huddersfield's second win of the season, a 1–0 victory against Manchester City at Maine Road, in which Rob Edwards scored the winner. In the 1998–99 season, Morrison played in Huddersfield's 2–1 defeat to Everton, in the League Cup, in which Olivier Dacourt and Marco Materazzi scored Everton's goals and Stewart scored Huddersfield's goal. Morrison fell out with Jackson early that season when the latter decided to make Barry Horne Huddersfield captain, leading to Morrison's departure.

Manchester City
Morrison was signed by Joe Royle for Manchester City, in the 1998–99 season, following their relegation to Division Two. The transfer fee was £80,000. Morrison made his debut in a 2–1 victory against Colchester United in October 1998. Morrison headed in City's second goal of the game and received a man of the match award, which was presented to him by former City winger Dennis Tueart. Morrison also scored in his second game for City, a 3–0 victory against Oldham Athletic. Morrison endeared himself to the City fans and was soon made captain. He scored his third goal for City in a 1–1 draw with Luton Town. One fanzine asked: "Where can we get another half-dozen Andy Morrisons?" According to goalkeeper Nicky Weaver: "Morrison was a huge signing for us. Joe made him captain straight away. He was an intimidating figure for the opposition and he could be intimidating as a team-mate as well. I'd stand behind him in the tunnel and he'd be beating his chest, ready for battle. The other team would be thinking, 'I don't fancy tangling with him today'. But to be fair to Andy, he wasn't just a brute and growling pitbull. He had a great touch, too." In an 1–0 defeat to Wimbledon, in the FA Cup, Morrison was sent off after a scuffle with Carl Cort. Morrison scored his fourth goal of the season, via a thundering header from a corner, in a 6–0 victory against Burnley (Shaun Goater scored a