# New Holland, Lincolnshire

New Holland is a village, civil parish and port on the Humber estuary in North Lincolnshire, England. In 2001 it had a population of 955, increasing marginally to 970 at the 2011 census.

History
New Holland was established in the early 19th-century. It was initially the site of a small ferry site, but this grew in size over the early decades of the century. The Manchester, Sheffield and Lincolnshire Railway company established the Lincoln Castle Hotel (then as the "Yarborough Arms") and the terraced houses in Manchester Square.

In 1870-1872 John Marius Wilson described the village in his Imperial Gazetteer of England and Wales:
HOLLAND (NEW), a sea port village in Barrow-upon-Humber parish, Lincoln; on the river Humber, and on the Grimsby and Sheffield Junction railway, opposite Hull, 4 miles E by N of Barton-upon-Humber. It has a station on the railway, a post office under Hull, a steamferry to Hull, a coast guard station, a national school, and a Wesleyan chapel; and the school-room is used as a chapel of ease. The pop[ulation] in 1851, was 401, and was then rapidly increasing.

Ferry

New Holland is the former embarkation point for the London & North Eastern Railway's ferry service to Victoria Pier, Kingston upon Hull. The service was operational from 1820 to 1981, when the Humber Bridge opened.  There were three LNER built paddle steamers used on the route: the PS Tattershall Castle, now a London pub and restaurant moored at the Embankment, the Lincoln Castle which served a similar purpose at Grimsby until 2006, and has since been scrapped, and the PS Wingfield Castle, which returned to Hartlepool where it was built, and where it is now a museum ship.

Port

The port of New Holland handles mostly bulk cargo in two locations: first, the small tidal dock, built about 1848 with the coming of the railway, and second, New Holland Pier, the former terminal for the ferry to Hull.

The tidal dock is almost entirely used for the import of timber from Scandinavia, Russia and the Baltic states, particularly the ports of Hamina (Finland), Kalmar (Sweden), St.Petersburg (Russia), Tallinn (Estonia) and Riga (Latvia). Occasional imports of steel products come from the near continent. The tidal dock generally only accommodates one vessel at a time.

New Holland Pier, with berths for three ships, is capable of accommodating larger vessels through its location in the deeper part of the channel. Since the early 1980s it has been used for the import and export of bulk cargo between the UK and parts of Scandinavia and Europe, the Black Sea and North Africa.

The village and port is served by New Holland railway station, which opened in 1981, replacing separate stations at  and  which both opened in 1848.

References

Villages in the Borough of North Lincolnshire
Ports and harbours of Lincolnshire
Civil parishes in Lincolnshire
Ports and harbours of the Humber
Port cities and towns of the North Sea
19th-century establishments in England