# Paul Ruditis

Paul Ruditis is an American author.

Early life
Ruditis was born and raised in Philadelphia. He attended West Chester University where he majored in Theatre Arts with a directing emphasis. After graduation, he moved to Los Angeles where he began working at Paramount Pictures where he worked as a tour guide and usher. Eventually, he took a position working in the studio's licensing department where he worked his way up to middle management before quitting to focus on writing.

Biography 
Ruditis' first publication was in a Buffy the Vampire Slayer short story collection, which was being edited by a friend. Since then he has published tie-in novels and official guides to many hit television shows such as Buffy the Vampire Slayer, Charmed, Angel, Queer as Folk, Frasier, The L Word, Star Trek, Roswell, The West Wing, Alias, Prison Break, Bones, The Brady Bunch, The Hardy Boys, The Girls Next Door and Sabrina, The Teenage Witch. He also wrote a guide to the film G.I. Joe: The Rise of Cobra.

He has also published original fiction including the DRAMA! series and the controversial young adult book Rainbow Party.

In 2010, he was hired by Zenecscope Entertainment to be the lead writer on Charmed, a comic series based on the television series of the same name. The comic features an all new storyline set after the series' conclusion and has to date been very popular with the first issue selling out in its first three weeks. For Issues 0-3 Ruditis co-authored the series with Zenescope veteran Raven Gregory but from Issue 4 onwards he penned the comics on his own.

Works

TV series-linked fiction
Buffy the Vampire Slayer
"The Show Must Go On" (short story in How I Survived My Summer Vacation)
Charmed
Roswell
Alias
Sabrina, the Teenage Witch
Star Trek: Enterprise
Star Trek: Voyager

Official guides
Charmed
Buffy the Vampire Slayer (TV series)
Angel
Sabrina, the Teenage Witch
Alias
The West Wing
Bones
Prison Break
Queer as Folk
The Brady Bunch
The Hardy Boys
G.I. Joe: The Rise of Cobra
Star Trek: Voyager

Comics
Charmed Season 9 Comics
Charmed Issue #0 - Sourcebook (with Raven Gregory)
Charmed Issue #1 - Charmed Lives (with Raven Gregory)
Charmed Issue #2 - No Rest For the Wicca (with Raven Gregory)
Charmed Issue #3 - Innocents Lost (with Raven Gregory)
Charmed Issue #4 - Mortal Enemies
Charmed Issue #5 - Unnatural Resources
Charmed Volume 1 (collecting issues 0-5)
Charmed Issue #6 - Morality Bites Back
Charmed Issue #7 - The Heir Up There
Charmed Issue #8 - Oh, Henry
Charmed Issue #9 - Desperately Seeking Piper (temporary title until issue is published)
Charmed Issue #10 - Three Little Wiccans

Other fiction
 Rainbow Party (2005) is a controversial novel aimed at the teen market (ages 14 and up) about teens and oral sex.
 DRAMA! The Four Dorothys is the first in the DRAMA! series
 DRAMA! Everyone's a Critic is the second in the DRAMA! series
 DRAMA! Show, Don't Tell is the third in the DRAMA! series
 DRAMA! Entrances and Exits is the fourth in the DRAMA! series

References

External links
The Official Site of Author Paul Ruditis

Year of birth missing (living people)
Living people
20th-century American novelists
21st-century American novelists
American male novelists
20th-century American male writers
21st-century American male writers
West Chester University alumni
Writers from Philadelphia