# Auchinleck railway station

Auchinleck railway station is a railway station in the village of Auchinleck, East Ayrshire, Scotland. The station is managed by ScotRail and is on the Glasgow South Western Line. It is also the nearest station to the larger town of Cumnock.

History 
The station was opened on 9 August 1848 by the Glasgow, Paisley, Kilmarnock and Ayr Railway, then joining the Glasgow and South Western Railway it became part of the London Midland and Scottish Railway during the Grouping of 1923. Passing on to the Scottish Region of British Railways during the nationalisation of 1948, it was then closed to passengers by the British Railways Board on 6 December 1965. It was reopened on 12 May 1984.

Facilities
There are now no permanent structures here apart from waiting shelters on each platform and the pedestrian footbridge.  Train running details are supplied via timetable posters, digital information screens, customer help points and automatic announcements.  Step-free access is available to both platforms via ramps.

2023 services 
As of 2023, there are nine trains per day to Glasgow Central and seven trains per day to Carlisle on Mondays to Fridays, on a mostly two-hourly frequency; however it is an uneven frequency meaning there is gaps of up to three hours at certain times of the day. Three trains per day only go as far as Dumfries. Saturday services are mostly the same except there are only two trains that terminate at Dumfries and only eight trains to Glasgow Central. On a Sunday a limited service of just two trains per day each way operate.

Before the May 2022 timetable change, one of the Carlisle trains extended through to Newcastle.This service was withdrawn at the aforementioned timetable change.

Views of the station

References

Notes

Sources

External links
Station on navigable O. S. map

Railway stations in East Ayrshire
Railway stations in Great Britain opened in 1848
Railway stations served by ScotRail
SPT railway stations
Railway stations in Great Britain closed in 1965
Railway stations in Great Britain opened in 1984
Beeching closures in Scotland
Former Glasgow and South Western Railway stations
Reopened railway stations in Great Britain
Auchinleck