[Organic Chemistry for Advanced Students — Gutenberg #38709]

the incumbent of a parish who has no endowment of tithes, as distinguished from a perpetual vicar, who has an endowment of small tithes, which are for that reason sometimes styled vicarial tithes. The origin of such unendowed curacies is traceable to the fact that benefices were sometimes granted to religious houses _pleno jure_, and with liberty for them to provide for the cure; and when such appropriations were transferred to lay persons, being unable to serve themselves, the impropriators were required to nominate a clerk in full orders to the ordinary for his licence to serve the cure. Such curates, being not removable at the pleasure of the impropriators, but only on due revocation of the licence of the ordinary, came to be entitled perpetual curates. The term "curate" in the present day is almost exclusively used to signify a clergyman who is assistant to a rector or vicar, by whom he is employed and paid; and a clerk in deacon's orders is competent to be licensed by a bishop to the office of such assistant curate. The consequence of this misuse of the term "curate" was that the title of "perpetual curate" fell into desuetude in the Anglican Church, and an act of parliament (1868) was passed to authorize perpetual curates to style themselves vicars (see VICAR). The term is in use in the Roman Catholic Church in Ireland to designate an assistant clergyman, and also to a certain extent in the American Episcopal Church, though "assistant minister" is usually preferred. CURATOR (Lat. for "one who takes care," _curare_, to take care of), in Roman law the "caretaker" or guardian of a spendthrift (_prodigus_) or of a person of unsound mind (_furiosus_), and, more particularly, one who takes charge of the estate of an _adolescens_, i.e. of a person _sui juris_, above the age of a _pupillus_, fourteen or twelve years, according to sex, and below the full age of twenty-five. Such persons were known as "minors," i.e. _minores viginti quinque annis_. While the tutor, the guardian of the _pupillus_, was said to be appointed for the care of the person, the curator took charge of the property. The term survives in Scots law for the guardian of one in the second stage of minority, i.e. below twenty-one, and above fourteen, if a male, and twelve, if a female. Under the Roman empire the title of curator was given to several officials who were in charge of departments of public administration, such as the _curatores annonae_, of the public supplies of corn and oil, or the _curatores regionum_, who were responsible for order in the fourteen _regiones_ or districts into which the city of Rome was divided, and who protected the citizen from exaction in the collection of taxes; the _curatores aquarum_ had the charge of the aqueducts. Many of these curatorships were instituted by Augustus. In modern usage "curator" is applied chiefly to the keeper of a museum, art collection, public gallery, &c., but in many universities to an official or member of a board having a general control over the university, or with the power of electing to professorships. In the university of Oxford "curators" are nominated to administer certain departments, such as the University Chest. CURCI, CARLO MARIA (1810-1891), Italian theologian, was born at Naples. He joined the Jesuits in 1826, and for some time was devoted to educational work and the care of the poor and prisoners. He became one of the first editors of the Jesuit organ, the _Civiltà Cattolica_; but then came under the influence of Gioberti, Rosmini and other advocates for reform. He wrote a preface to Gioberti's _Primato_ (1843), but dissented from his _Prolegomena_. After the events of 1870, Curci, at Florence, delivered a course on Christian philosophy; and in 1874 began to publish several Scriptural works. In his edition of the New Testament (1879-1880) he makes some severe remarks on the neglect of the study of Scripture amongst the Italian clergy. In the meantime he began to attack the political action of the Vatican, and in his _Il Moderno Dissidio tra la Chiesa e l'Italia_ (1878) he advocated an understanding between the church and state. This was followed by _La Nuova Italia ed i Vecchi Zelanti_ (1881), another attack on the Vatican policy; and by his _Vaticano Regio_ (1883), in which he accuses the Vatican of trafficking in holy things and declares that the taint of worldliness came from the false principles accepted by the Curia. His former work at Naples drew him also in the direction of Christian Socialism. He was condemned at Rome, and in a letter to _The Times_ (10th of September 1884) declares that it was on account of his disobedience to the decrees of the Roman Congregation: "I am a dutiful son of the Church who hesitates to obey an order of his mother because he does not see clear enough the maternal authority in it." He was cast out of the Society of Jesus and suspended, and during this time Cardinal Manning put his purse at Curci's disposal. Finally he accepted the decrees against him and retracted "all that he said contrary to the faith, morals and discipline of the Church." He passed the remainder of his life in retirement at Florence, and, a few months before his death, was readmitted to the Jesuit Society. He died on the 8th of June 1891. (E. Tn.) CUREL, FRANÇOIS, VICOMTE DE (1854- ), French dramatist, was born at Metz on the 10th of June 1854. He was educated at the École Centrale as a civil engineer, the family wealth being derived from smelting works. He began his literary career with two novels, _L'Été des fruits secs_ (1885) and _Le Sauvetage du grand duc_ (1889). In 1891 three pieces were accepted by the Théâtre Libre. The list of his plays includes _L'Envers d'une sainte_ (1892); _Les Fossiles_ (1892), a picture of the prejudices of the provincial nobility; _L'Invitée_ (1893), the story of a mother who returns to her children after twenty years' separation; _L'Amour brode_ (1893), which was withdrawn by the author from the Théâtre Français after the second representation; _La Figurante_ (1896); _Le Repas du lion_ (1898), dealing with the relations between capital and labour; _La Fille sauvage_ (1902), the history of the development of the religious idea; _La Nouvelle Idole_ (1899), dealing with the worship of science; and _Le Coup d'aile_ (1906). See also _Contemporary Review_ for August 1903. CURÉLY, JEAN NICOLAS (1774-1827), French cavalry leader, was the son of a poor peasant of Lorraine. Joining, in 1793, a regiment of hussars, he served with great distinction as private and as _sous-officier_ in the Rhine campaigns from 1794 to 1800. He was, however, still a non-commissioned officer of twelve years' service, when at Afflenz (12th of November 1805) he attacked and defeated, with twenty-five men, a whole regiment of Austrian cavalry. This brilliant feat of arms won him the grade of _sous-lieutenant_, and the reputation of being one of the men of the future. The next two campaigns of the _Grande Armée_ gained him two more promotions, and as a captain of hussars he performed, in the campaign of Wagram, a feat of even greater daring than the affair of Afflenz. Entrusted with despatches for the viceroy of Italy, Curély, with forty troopers, made his way through the Austrian lines, reconnoitred everywhere, even in the very headquarters-camp of the archduke John, and finally accomplished his mission in safety. This exploit, only to be compared to the famous raids of the American Civil War, and almost unparalleled in European war, gained him the grade of _chef d'escadrons_, in which for some years he served in the Peninsular War. Under Gouvion St Cyr he took part in the Russian War of 1812, and in 1813 was promoted colonel. In the campaign of France (1814) Curély, now general of brigade, commanded a brigade of "improvised" cavalry, and succeeded in infusing into this unpromising material some of his own daring spirit. His regiments distinguished themselves in several combats, especially at the battle of Arcis-sur-Aube. The Restoration government looked with suspicion on the most dashing cavalry leader of the younger generation, and in 1815 Curély, who during the Hundred Days had rallied to his old leader, was placed on the retired list. Withdrawing to the little estate of Jaulny (near Thiaucourt), which was his sole property, he lived in mournful retirement, which was saddened still further when in 1824 he was suddenly deprived of his rank. This last blow hastened his death. Curély, had he arrived at high command earlier, would have been ranked with Lasalle and Montbrun, but his career, later than theirs in beginning, was ended by the fall of Napoleon. His devoted friend, De Brack, in his celebrated work _Light Cavalry Outposts_, considers Curély incomparable as a leader of light cavalry, and the portrait of Curély to be found in its pages is justly ranked as one of the masterpieces of military literature. The general himself left but a modest manuscript, which was left for a subsequent generation to publish. See also Thoumas, _Le Général Curély: itinéraires d'un Cavalier léger, 1793-1815_ (Paris, 1887). CURES, a Sabine town between the left bank of the Tiber and the Via Salaria, about 26 m. from Rome. According to the legend, it was from Cures that Titus Tatius led to the Quirinal the Sabine settlers, from whom, after their union with the settlers on the Palatine, the whole Roman people took the name Quirites. It was also renowned as the birthplace of Numa, and its importance among the Sabines at an early period is indicated by the fact that its territory is often called simply _ager Sabinus_. At the beginning of the imperial period it is spoken of as an unimportant place, but seems to have risen to greater prosperity in the 2nd century. It appears as the seat of a bishop in the 5th century, but seems to have been destroyed by the Lombards in A.D. 589. The site consists of a hill with two summits, round the base of which runs the Fosso Corese: the western summit was occupied by the necropolis, the eastern by the citadel, and the lower ground between the two by the city itself. A temple, the forum, the baths, &c., were excavated in 1874-1877. See T. Ashby in _Papers of the British School at Rome_, iii. 34. (T. As.) CURETES (Gr. [Greek: Kourêtes] and [Greek: Kourêtes]). (1) A legendary people mentioned by Homer (_Il._ ix. 529 ff.) as taking part in the quarrel over the Calydonian boar. They were identified in antiquity as either Aetolians or Acarnanians (Strabo 462, 26), and were also represented by a stock in Chalcis in Euboea. (2) In mythology (unconnected with the above), the attendants of Rhea. The