# West (publisher)

West (also known by its original name, West Publishing) is a business owned by Thomson Reuters that publishes legal, business, and regulatory information in print, and on electronic services such as Westlaw. Since the late 19th century, West has been one of the most prominent publishers of legal materials in the United States. Its headquarters is in Eagan, Minnesota; it also had an office in Rochester, New York, until it closed in 2019, and it had an office in Cleveland, Ohio, until it closed in 2010. Organizationally, West is part of the global legal division of Thomson Reuters.

History
West Publishing was founded by John Briggs West. In 1872, he went into business for himself as "John B. West, Publisher and Book Seller", reprinting legal treatises, publishing legal forms, and producing an index to the Minnesota statutes.  He even arranged for a Swedish-language version of the state's rules of practice, for the state's many Scandinavian-born lawyers and judges. In 1876, his business had expanded to the point that he took on his older brother, Horatio (1848–1936) as a partner, and in 1882, with a couple of outside investors, the enterprise was incorporated as "West Publishing Company". Their first continuing publication was The Syllabi, a collection of the summaries of all, and the full texts of some, of the decisions of the State and federal courts of Minnesota; this proved so popular that in 1877 it was expanded to include the courts of Wisconsin and renamed The North Western Reporter and within a couple of years added coverage of several more states and became the cornerstone of what was to become West's National Reporter System, a system of regional reporters, each of which became known for reporting state court appellate decisions within its region. The West brothers also introduced the American Digest System, prefacing the court decisions with "headnotes" quoting (as nearly verbatim as possible) the holdings of the decision and categorized with key numbers so that analogous holdings from different decisions and even from different states could be grouped together. The West company was embroiled in at least three crucial lawsuits early in its history, which established that state court decisions were in the public domain and not copyrighted (although West's headnotes and key number system could be copyrighted). By 1902, the West Publishing Company could boast of publishing law books "by the millions".

West also publishes decisions of the federal Courts of Appeals in the Federal Reporter and of the federal district courts in the Federal Supplement, and retroactively republished the decisions of all lower federal courts predating the NRS in Federal Cases. All these reporters are also part of the NRS (National Reporter System), meaning that all cases published therein are annotated with headnotes by West attorney-editors, and all those headnotes are then indexed in the West American Digest System (and its electronic version, KeyCite) for easy cross-referencing.

Technically, all of West's reporters were originally unofficial reporters published without the express authorization or endorsement of the courts. West reporters have become the nationwide de facto standard used by all federal courts and most state courts, despite their technically unofficial nature. Indeed, over 20 states have discontinued publication of their own official reporters, and a few states with West's cooperation began inserting certificates in the volumes of the relevant West regional reporter to certify it as their official reporter.

Both brothers retired to southern California.  Ironically, California does not use West's reporters, and, pursuant to the California Style Manual, citations are solely to the official reporters, either Cal. or Cal. App.

In 1995, West retained the services of A.G. Edwards and Goldman Sachs in a search for potential purchasers. Thomson purchased West in 1996. Thomson also consolidated into West a number of other law book companies purchased by either Thomson or West, including Bancroft-Whitney, Banks-Baldwin, Barclay, Callaghan & Company, Clark Boardman, Foundation Press, Gilbert's, Harrison, Lawyers Cooperative Publishing, and Warren, Gorham & Lamont. As a condition of the purchase, Thomson sold 52 titles (including the Supreme Court Reports, Lawyers' Edition) to LexisNexis. Today, West also publishes some treatise titles purchased from Shepard's (but not Shepard's Citations). Through these acquisitions, Thomson has become one of the "big three" legal publishers, along with LexisNexis and Wolters Kluwer.  Following the acquisition by Thomson, West was known as WIPG, West Information Publishing Group. From 1997 to 2004, West was known as "West Group".

In 2009–10, West began offering buyouts to its U.S. editorial staff as it began to move editorial production overseas. In 2013, West sold its academic publishing, including Foundation Press, to Eureka Growth Capital.

West products and services

AAJ Press
 American Casebook series
 American Jurisprudence
 American Law Reports
 Aspatore Books
 Black Letter series
 Black's Law Dictionary
 Calendars
 Case law
 CLE programs
 Concepts and Insights series
 Contact networks
 Corpus Juris Secundum
 Court rules
 Dictionaries/desk references
 Digests
 Document retrieval services
 Exam Pro series
 Federal Reporter
 Federal Supplement
 Findlaw
 Forms
 Handbooks
 Hornbook series
 Jury instructions
 Keycite and Citators
 Law firm marketing services
 Law reviews and journals
 Law school casebooks
 Law school publications
 Lawyering skills
 Legal assistant/paralegal
 Legal encyclopedias
 LiveNote
 Nutshell series
 Practical Law
 Practitioner treatises
 Public records
 Reporters
 Restatements of the Law
 Rutter Group
 Statutes
 Supreme Court Reporter
 Turning Point series
 Uniform Laws Annotated
 United States Code Congressional and Administrative News
 University Casebook series
 University Textbook series
 USCA (United States Code Annotated)
 West American Digest System
 Westlaw
 WestlawNext
 West Court Reporting Services
 West LegalEdcenter
 Words And Phrases

References

External links
 West Publishing Company in MNopedia (the Minnesota Encyclopedia)

 
Book publishing companies based in Minnesota
Companies based in Eagan, Minnesota
Bibliographic database providers
Publishing companies established in 1872
Legal publishers
1872 establishments in Minnesota