# 1886 in baseball

Champions

Major League Baseball
National League: Chicago White Stockings
American Association: St. Louis Browns
World Series

St. Louis Browns 4, Chicago White Stockings 2

Minor League Baseball
Eastern League: Newark
International League: Utica
New England League: Portland
Northwestern League: Duluth
Western League: Denver

College baseball
Inter-Collegiate Association: Yale University

Major League Baseball final standings

National League final standings

American Association final standings

Statistical leaders

National League statistical leaders

American Association statistical leaders

All-Time Statistical Leaders (Strikeouts)
The 1886 season was memorable as the top two all-time Major League Baseball single season strikeout totals were established that year:

Notable seasons
Guy Hecker of the Louisville Colonels not only compiled a 26–23 record with a 2.87 Earned Run Average as the Colonels number 2 pitcher, he also won the American Association batting crown with a .341 average.  Hecker remains the only pitcher to ever win a batting title.
Matt Kilroy of the Baltimore Orioles throws 4 2-hitters, 3 1-hitters and a no-hitter in his rookie season in 1886.  Kilroy also sets the single season major league record with 513 strikeouts.
Jocko Flynn of the Chicago White Stockings goes 23–6 in his rookie season in 1886.  Flynn develops arm trouble and never pitches again in the major leagues.  His 23 wins are still a record for a pitcher who only pitched in 1 season.

Events

January–March
January 4 – St. Louis Browns owner Chris von der Ahe sells the reserve rights of Sam Barkley to the Pittsburgh Alleghenys for $1,000.  von der Ahe had previously sold the rights to the Baltimore Orioles on December 24, 1885 but had not received payment from Baltimore.  Barkley, in the interim, had already signed a contract with Baltimore.  The resulting power struggle within the American Association to resolve the situation would lead to the ouster of league president, Denny McKnight.
January 16 – The Washington Nationals are admitted to the National League.
February 5 – The lawsuit brought by Fred Thayer and George Wright against Albert Spalding and his Spalding sporting goods company for infringement upon Thayer's patent rights to the catching mask goes to trial.  Spalding will be forced to pay royalties to Thayer and Wright when the case is settled.
February 9 – The Kansas City Cowboys are admitted to the National League for a one-year trial.  This brings the NL back to 8 teams for 1886.
February 27 – The Cincinnati Red Stockings of the American Association is sold by Aaron Stern to Louis Huack, a wealthy brewer and banker.
March 2 – The American Association meets, overruling its own president Denny McKnight, and suspends Sam Barkley for signing with the Pittsburgh Alleghenys after he had already signed with the Baltimore Orioles.
March 2 – The American Association reduces the number of balls needed for a walk to six and adopts the stolen base as an official statistic.
March 4 – The National League makes the stolen base an official statistic as well but keeps the number of balls for a walk at seven.
March 5 – In breaking from official league policy, the National League allows the St. Louis Maroons and the Philadelphia Quakers to drop their ticket prices to 25¢.  The removal of the 50¢ requirement for those teams is due to competing teams from the American Association in their respective cities.
March 17 – The Sporting News, founded by Alfred H. Spink, publishes its first issue.  It will quickly become the leading source of baseball information in the country.
March 22 – The American Association removes Denny McKnight as president due to his handling of the Sam Barkley incident.  Wheeler Wikoff is selected as his replacement.

April–June
April 13 – The American Association resolves the Sam Barkley case by allowing Barkley to play for the Pittsburgh Alleghenys and sending Milt Scott from Pittsburgh to the Baltimore Orioles as compensation for losing Barkley.  Additionally, the St. Louis Browns are allowed to keep the $1,000 they received from Pittsburgh for Barkley's reserve rights.
April 16 – The final exhibition games between various National League and American Association teams are played with the AA holding a 19–16 advantage over the NL in the games played.
April 19 – Wilbert Robinson makes his major league debut with the Philadelphia Athletics of the American Association.  Robinson will remain in the majors as a player, coach or manager through 1931.
April 22 – The New York Metropolitans open their new 5,000-seat stadium, the St. George Cricket Grounds.  The new park boasts illuminated fountains, with an amusement park and restaurants next to it.
April 29 – The New York World prints woodcuts of live action photographs taken during a game.
April 30 – The first National League game is played in Kansas City, Missouri.  The Cowboys lose to the Chicago White Stockings 6–5 in 13 innings as the game is "broadcast" in Chicago by using a baseball stadium diagram and player transparencies.
May 1 – Al Atkinson throws a no-hitter for the Philadelphia Athletics of the American Association.  It is the 2nd no-hitter in Atkinson's career.
May 2 – The game between the Brooklyn Grays and the Philadelphia Athletics is called as a 19–19 tie after eight innings due to darkness.
May 3 – Pat Dealy of the Boston Beaneaters sets a National League record by allowing 10 passed balls, while pitcher Bill Stemmeyer throws 5 wild pitches in a 12–11 loss.
May 17 – Jim Gifford is fired as manager of the American Association New York Metropolitans and is replaced by AA umpire Bob Ferguson.
May 24 – St. Louis Maroons second baseman Fred Dunlap hits for the cycle in an 11–8 loss to the New York Giants.
May 31 – The first crowd in major league history of over 20,000 (20,632) watches the Detroit Wolverines win 4–1 against the New York Giants at the Polo Grounds.
June 3 – St. Louis Browns teammates Arlie Latham and Doc Bushong are each fined $100 for a fist fight between the two during a Brown's game in Baltimore.
June 4 – Tony Mullane of the Cincinnati Red Stockings gives more ammunition to those suspicious of him throwing games when he gives up 12 runs in the last 2 innings after 7 shutout innings in a 12–7 loss to the Brooklyn Grays.
June 12 – Charlie Sweeney of the St. Louis Maroons sets the major league record by allowing 7 home runs in 1 game in a 14–7 loss to the Detroit Wolverines.
June 18 – The Cincinnati Enquirer publishes a letter it has received accusing Tony Mullane of throwing games on the Red Stockings previous road trip.  When the writer fails to produce evidence after being challenged, Mullane is exonerated by the team.
June 26 – George Stovey makes his professional league debut in the Eastern League with the Jersey City Jerseys.

July–September
July 5 – Fred Carroll of the Pittsburgh Alleghenys sets a major league record with 9 hits in a doubleheader.
July 5 – The Louisville Colonels suspend Pete Browning for a month due to Browning playing in games while drunk.
July 8 – Jumbo McGinnis of the St. Louis Browns, making only his 10th start of the season, shuts out the Baltimore Orioles 10–0.  Hours later, McGinnis is sold to the Orioles.
July 9 – Joe Start, one of baseball's original stars, plays in the final game of his career.  The 43-year-old veteran played in the original season of the National Association in 1871, although his playing days as an amateur started before the American Civil War.
July 24 – Adonis Terry of the Brooklyn Grays pitches a no-hitter against the St. Louis Browns.
July 27 – The Brotherhood of Professional Base-Ball Players, led by John Montgomery Ward, publicly announces its existence.  The Brotherhood boasts chapters in virtually every major league city.  This group will be behind the formation of the Players' League in 1890.
July 29 – Tom Ramsey of the Louisville Colonels throws a 1-hitter against the Baltimore Orioles, allowing only a supposed single to Pat O'Connell leading off the first inning.  Curiously, though The Baltimore Sun and Louisville Courier both report the game as a no-hitter, Ramsey is officially credited with a 1-hitter.
July 31 – Tom Ramsey of the Louisville Colonels pitches his 2nd consecutive 1-hitter, striking out 16 in a 2–1 win over the Baltimore Orioles.  It also marks the 3rd time in 4 games that the Colonels have 1-hit the Orioles as Dave Foutz had also thrown a 1-hitter against them on July 28.
August 8
The St. Louis Maroons sell second baseman Fred Dunlap to the Detroit Wolverines for $4,700, prompting rumors that the Maroons are about to disband.
Louisville Colonels outfielder Pete Browning hits for the cycle in an 11–6 win over the New York Metropolitans.
August 14 – John Clarkson of the Chicago White Stockings beats the St. Louis Maroons for the 17th consecutive game, a record which still stands.
August 15 – Guy Hecker of the Louisville Colonels pitches a 4-hitter in a 22–5 win over the Baltimore Oriol