# Roman Catholic Diocese of Camden

The Diocese of Camden ()s is a  Latin Church diocese of the Catholic Church in the U.S. state of New Jersey. It consists of 62 parishes and about 475,000 Catholics in the South Jersey counties of Atlantic  – Camden, Cape May, Cumberland, Gloucester, and Salem.

The Bishop of Camden presides from the Cathedral of the Immaculate Conception in Camden, although most major ceremonies are held at Saint Agnes Catholic Church in Blackwood. Some liturgies are held at St. Joseph Pro-Cathedral in Camden.

Bishop Dennis J. Sullivan has been bishop of the diocese since 2013.

History

1700 to 1800 
Although the British Provinces of East New Jersey and West New Jersey were not officially welcoming to Catholics, they tended to ignore their presence. The first Catholic presence in South Jersey was a group of Catholic glass blowers brought to Wisterburg in present day Salem County in 1739. Traveling priests periodically traveled to the region to minister to the small congregation there.

The assistance of Catholic French troops during the American Revolution helped to abate anti-Catholic sentiment in all of the 13 original colonies. In 1784, Pope Pius VI erected the Apostolic Prefecture of United States of America, including all of the new United States. In 1789, the same pope raised this prefecture to the Diocese of Baltimore.

1800 to 1900 
When Pope Pius VII in 1808 erected the Diocese of Philadelphia, he included the  Camden area of New Jersey. In 1830, Bishop Francis Kenrick Philadelphia dedicated the St. Mary’s Church in Pleasant Mills, making it the first Catholic church in the present day Diocese of Camden. 

Around 1848. a large wave of Irish Catholic immigrants fleeing the Great Famine in Ireland arrived in New Jersey. St. Mary’s Church in Gloucester City was the first parish in the area, established in 1849. In Atlantic City, St. Nicholas Church opened in 1858.  The first church in Camden, St. Mary of the Immaculate Conception, was finished in 1859.

In 1853, when Pope Pius IX erected the Diocese of Newark in 1853, all of New Jersey was put in this diocese. In 1881, Pope Leo XIII erected the Diocese of Trenton, taking southern New Jersey from the Diocese of Newark. The Camden area would remain part of the Diocese of Trenton for the next 56 years.

Bishop Francis Kenrick dedicated the St. Mary’s Church in Pleasant Mills on August 15, 1830, the fourth Catholic church in New Jersey and the first in the present-day Diocese of Camden.  The first parish and school were established at St. Mary’s, Gloucester in 1849 and 1859, respectively.

1900 to 1956 
Pope Pius XI erected the Diocese of Camden on December 9, 1937, taking its present territory from the Diocese of Trenton and designating the Church of the Immaculate Conception in Camden as its cathedral.  The pope named Reverend Bartholomew J. Eustace of the Archdiocese of New York as the first bishop of Camden.

When Eustace, became bishop, the new diocese had 75 diocesan priests and 11 religious priests to serve approximately 100,000 Catholics in 49 parishes and 31 missions, plus 30 elementary and five secondary schools.

Two of the parishes that Eustace founded were established specifically for African-American Catholics; St. Monica's in Atlantic City and St. Bartholomew's in Camden. When St. Bartholomew's fell into financial difficulties, Eustace recruited comedian Eddie Cantor to give a benefit performance for the parish in 1950. Eustace also erected Our Lady of Fatima Parish for Spanish-speaking Catholics. He opened Our Lady of Lourdes Hospital at Camden in 1950.

Following completion of its construction in 1952, St. Joseph Church in Camden was declared to be a pro-cathedral because the Cathedral of the Immaculate Conception was too small for cathedral functions. Eustace opened Mercy Hospital at Sea Isle City in 1953, the Angelus Convalescent Home at Wildwood and St. Mary's Home for the Aged at Haddonfield.

1956 to 1968 
By the time that Eustace died in 1956, the Catholic population and the number of priests in the diocese had more than doubled. He founded 31 parishes, 25 missions, 50 churches, 20 convents, 22 elementary schools, and four high schools.

The second bishop of Camden was Auxiliary bishop Justin J. McCarthy of Newark, appointed by Pope Pius XII in 1957.  He opened several new schools and expanded already existing ones, making room for an increase of over 5,000 students at the elementary level and 1,000 students at the high school level. At the time of his death, some 20,000 children were enrolled in CCD classes, nearly a 100 percent increase since his installation. McCarthy sent some clergy to Puerto Rico to learn Spanish so they could better serve Spanish-speaking Catholics. In 1957, he opened a mobile chapel for migrant workers, and in 1959 secured the services of four Oblates of the Sacred Heart Sisters to teach religion and do social work at Our Lady of Fatima Parish in Camden. He also erected four new parishes, founded a diocesan commission on properties and buildings, and encouraged a Catholic Youth Council be established at every parish in the diocese.

Following McCarthy's death in 1959, Pope John XXIII named Celestine Damiano, the apostolic delegate to South Africa, as the third bishop of  Camden in New Jersey (with the personal title of archbishop) in 1960. That same year, Damiano launched a drive to raise $5 million for the construction and improvement of Catholic secondary schools in the diocese. He established the following high schools in New Jersey:

 Camden Catholic High School in Cherry Hill
 Holy Spirit High School in Absecon
 Paul VI High School in Haddonfield

Damiano also opened 17 new elementary schools in the diocese, with total enrollment for all schools increasing by more than 3,000. He also founded a diocesan school board in 1965, and greatly expanded the Confraternity of Christian Doctrine. He established the Spanish Catholic Center at Vineland in 1962. Damiano initiated the diocese's Brazil mission project in 1961, and the House of Charity Appeal for funding diocesan human services in 1964. He delivered the invocation for the 1964 Democratic National Convention in Atlantic City, New Jersey. In 1966, Damiano established a new rule allow interracial weddings in diocese churches without permission from the diocese.  Previously, these couples were married only in church rectories. Damiano died in 1967.

1968 to 2000 
To replace Damiano, Pope Paul VI named Auxiliary Bishop George Guilfoyle of New York as the next bishop of Camden in 1968. Following the assassination of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. in April 1968, Guilfoyle described racism as "not a mere myth but an ugly reality" and urged Catholics to "purge every fragment of racism among us." He established a diocesan pastoral council and directed every parish to establish a parish council in 1968. He also established the Office of Pastoral Planning, Office of Evangelization, and Secretariat for Education. He advocated "the right to life from conception to old age," and established the Pro-Life Office in 1973.

During his tenure, Guilfoyle erected eight parishes, eleven convents, twenty-three churches, thirty-seven rectories, and six schools. A retreat house was acquired by the diocese, special education facilities were expanded and a Newman Centre erected at Glassboro State College in Glassboro. The diocese built nursing homes and established two residences for the elderly, Victorian Towers and St. Mary's Village. Guilfoyle established an Hispanic Apostolate; Spanish-language Masses in many South Jersey parishes were instituted, while the diocese worked to obtain Spanish-speaking priests, brothers and nuns.

After Guilfoyle retired in 1989, Pope John Paul II appointed Auxiliary Bishop James T. McHugh of Newark as the next bishop of Camden.  During his nine-year tenure, he reorganized the diocese's administrative structure and relocated the diocesan headquarters to downtown Camden. He presided over a diocesan synod in September 1992. McHugh created a $63 million Catholic Education Endowment Fund for schools and religious education programs, a five-point plan to reinvigorate Catholic high schools, and supported school voucher legislation in the New Jersey Legislature.

McHugh became coadjutor bishop of the Diocese of Rockville Centre in 1998.  Auxiliary Bishop Nicholas DiMarzio of Newark was selected by John Paul II in 1999 as the sixth bishop of Camden.

2000 to present 
While bishop, DiMarzio established an Office of Ethnic Ministries, an Office of Black Catholic Ministry, and an Office of Hispanic Ministry. DiMarzio also created an apostolate to the Haitian community and founded two missions to serve the Korean and Vietnamese communities. In 2000, DiMarzio established Mater Ecclesiae Chapel, the first canonically established mission owned by a diocese and staffed exclusively by diocesan priests to offer exclusively the Tridentine Mass. John Paul II named DiMarzio as bishop of the Diocese of Brookly