# Tamarack Resort

Tamarack Resort is a four-season destination resort in the western United States. Located in west central Idaho in Valley County, it is  miles north of Boise on the west shore of Lake Cascade, southwest of the small town of Donnelly.

When it opened  in 2004, Tamarack was the first new destination ski resort to be built in North America in 23 years.In November 2018, new ownership began immediately investing in resort improvements, construction, and improved guest amenities.

Resort Profile 
Tamarack Resort is a master planned all-season destination located  north of Boise. From onsite lodging, dining, retail and event space to the full range of outdoor recreation in the Idaho mountains, there is adventure for all seasons. During the summer, the resort is home to mountain biking, ziplining, hiking, whitewater rafting, and watersports on temperate Lake Cascade. Winter brings 2,800 feet of vertical on 1,100 skiable acres for skiers and snowboarders, along with trails for fat tire biking, Nordic skiing and snowshoeing. At the heart of the resort and as the center of activity is The Village at Tamarack which enjoys ski-in ski-out access.

Skiing and Riding

Tamarack has a lift-served summit elevation of  above sea level on West Mountain (), with a vertical drop of over .  Three quad chairlifts served the east-facing slopes (2 hi-speed & 2 fixed-grip), along with two surface lifts, a Poma platter lift and a magic carpet, in the novice area at the base.

The summit of West Mountain receives an average of   of snowfall, and snowmaking is available on the lower runs.  Steep at the summit but rapidly smoothing out, the terrain for the ski area is rated at 17% novice, 45% intermediate, and 38% advanced.

For the cross country skier, over  of Nordic trails are available.

Lodging

Onsite lodging options in Tamarack are endless, from the Lodge at Osprey Meadows to cottages, chalets, townhouses and estate homes, and all located on the mountain and in the resort. The Lodge has both hotel rooms available and condos for rent, the price per night starts at $109 and can increase depending on the type of room. Cottages are more spacious and ideal for larger groups, they start at $135 a night and can accommodate up to 6 guests, a fireplace and washer and dryer are included Townhouses are ideal for guests who came to the resort with the intent to ski in and ski out, the townhouse located relatively close to the chair lift and range from $115–145 a night and can accommodate up to 8 guests. Custom chalets and estate homes are a bit more expensive at $195/night, but worth the money as they offer the most space and comfort.  The views from these homes are incredible and the ski in and out options available at various cottages and homes are convenient for skiers and snowboarders alike. Each option is affordable and include numerous extra Lodge amenities. The amenities at the lodge include a spa, pool area, hot tub, a gym, and various dining options.

The Village

The Village at Tamarack Resort consists of six separate buildings with a total of 47,000 square feet of commercial space for guest services, resort operations, retail, restaurants and bars, along with luxury condominium residences on the upper floors. Heated, underground parking is located under the entire Village. The 56 Phase I residences were released to the public in October 2019
and range from 480-square-foot studios to 2,427-square-foot three-bedroom penthouses.

Real Estate

Tamarack Resort sits on approximately 3,600 acres (2,124 state lease land, 1,484 private land) between Lake Cascade and West Mountain. The Resort Master Plan (a Planned Unit Development) is permitted for a total of 2,043 dwelling units, including single-family lots, townhomes, condominiums, hotel and conference facilities.

History 

The Tamarack Resort was first conceived as Valbois in the early 1980s, but unsuccessfully struggled to overcome federal regulatory hurdles and fierce local opposition, and finally folded in 1995.  Despite local opposition, a new group of investors revived the project three years later with modifications and called it WestRock.  After four years the name was changed to "Tamarack" in December 2002, after the tamarack larch, a deciduous coniferous tree, whose short, dark green fir-like needles turn yellow (and shed) every autumn.
 
Construction at the Tamarack Resort began in 2003, and skiing was available only by snowcat the first year. The alpine ski area officially opened with chairlift service the following year on December 15, 2004.

The Resort went through foreclosure and emerged from it at a sheriff's sale on March 10, 2014. A court-appointed receiver, Douglas Wilson,  closed the ski area in early March 2009, which was shuttered for the 2009–10 season. It re-opened in 2010 on December 20, with five of seven chairlifts, operated by the Tamarack Municipal Association (TMA). All major recreational and dining facilities were restarted under TMA management, except the zip line tour which was operated by Experience Based Learning, Inc out of Rockford, IL, under the /dba/ Zip Tamarack, from July 2009 until September 2016.

One of the three high-speed chairlifts was removed in 2012.

Golf 

Osprey Meadows, a Robert Trent Jones II signature 18-hole golf course, opened  in May 2006 with the addition of the back nine holes; the first nine holes opened for play in September 2005.  The course is just southeast of the village and ski area base, at an average elevation of .  The back tees play at , with 100 bunkers distributed on the challenging course.  After the receiver closed parts of the resort in March 2009, the golf course reopened for play less than five months later on July 25, operated by the Raven Golf Management Company of Boise. The golf course closed again in 2015, but is set to reopen in the summer of 2023

Celebrity investment
In August 2005, then President of the United States George W. Bush and First Lady of the United States Laura Bush stayed at Tamarack, giving the resort significant national exposure. They came to Idaho as guests of Dirk Kempthorne, the state's governor and former U.S. Senator who later became a member of Bush's cabinet as Secretary of the Interior.

In September 2006, recently retired tennis star Andre Agassi and wife Steffi Graf announced through their development company, after significant delays, that they had finalized an agreement to develop a luxury mountain project at Tamarack.  Groundbreaking for the Fairmont Tamarack was scheduled for 2007 with completion expected in 2009, on their first lifestyle development project. Following more delays, Agassi and Graf withdrew from the project in June 2008.

Since January 2004, the resort has sold 531 properties for $359.3 million.  This includes an additional nine lots than were originally planned for these phases that netted $42.7 million, they were captured by re-engineering the original plot design to eliminate wetlands.

Bankruptcy and Foreclosure 

The majority owners of Tamarack Resort filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy on February 20, 2008.

Tamarack had been planned to be a $1.5 billion destination resort with 62 ski runs, 7 chairlifts, two golf courses, and plentiful mountain biking trails by 2015–20.

Patrick H. Owen, a fourth district judge in Boise, appointed a receiver in October 2008 to oversee the operations of the resort, at the request of Credit Suisse, the major financer.  The receiver, the Douglas Wilson Co. of San Diego, determined in February 2009 that the operating losses were too great and closed Tamarack to the public with over a month remaining in the ski season.  The final day of lift-served skiing was Wednesday, March 4, 2009; the resort was effectively shuttered that evening.

In June 2009, the resort announced that it was reopening its 18-hole golf course (2006) and zip lines (2007) through a partnership with an operating company; the golf course reopened in late July and the zip line a few days later.  Since 2008, Bank of America threatened to remove two chairlifts that the resort had fallen behind in payments on. Judge Michael McLaughlin denied their request on July 2; the quad chairlifts in question were the resort's two newest, Wildwood Express (detachable) at the northern boundary and Buttercup (fixed-grip) in the Whitewater residential area.

In September, the Tamarack Homeowners' Association formed an unincorporated organization called West Mountain Preservation Management Association. It filed a motion to reopen Tamarack Resort for the 2009–10 season, using $8 million from a Mexican real estate company, but did not pursue the motion, and the resort remain closed.

On March 17, 2010, U.S. bankruptcy judge Terry Meyers ruled that the newly named trustee, Jeremy Gugino, could start the process of liquidating the resort's equipment and other assets into cash, to be divided among its creditors.  Meanwhile, Credit Suisse continued to move in Idaho state court to foreclose on the resort