[The Electron Theory of Matter — Gutenberg #10015]

Would he drift safely ashore? "Oh! how can I wreck myself, 'ere it be too late?" he cried, in the agony of his heart. Wild with apprehensions of reaching the land without danger, he sat down and madly whittled a hole in the bottom of the boat, making it, as nearly as possible, such a one as a sword fish would be likely to cut. When he got it done, the water bubbled through it like an oil-well. In fact, Mr. P. was afraid that his vessel would fill up before he was near enough for the maiden on the rocks to hear his heart-rending cries for succor. He could see her plainly now. 'Twas certainly she. He knew her by her photograph--("Twenty-five cents, sir. The American female GRACE DARLING, sir. Likeness warranted, sir.") But she turned not towards him. Confound it! Would she finish that eternal tidy ere she glanced around? The boat was almost full now. It would sink before she saw it! That hole must be stopped until he had drifted near enough to give vent to an agonizing cry for help. Having nothing else convenient, Mr. P. clapped into the hole a lot of manuscripts which he had brought with him for consideration. (Correspondents who may experience apparent neglect will please take notice. It is presumed, of course, that every one who writes anything worth reading, will keep a copy of it.) Now the rocks were comparatively near, and standing up to his knees in water, Mr. P. gave the appropriate heart-rending cry for succor. But in spite of the prevailing calm, he perceived that there was a surf upon the rocks, and a noise of many waters. At the top of his voice Mr. P. again shouted. "Hello, IDA!" But he soon found that he would have to hello longer as well as hello IDA, and he did it. At last she heard him. Dropping her work-basket, she ran to the edge of the rock, and making a trumpet of her hands, called out: "Ahoy there! What's up?" "Me!" answered Mr. P., "but I won't be up very long. Haste to my assistance, oh maiden! ere I sink!" Then she shouted again: "I've got no boat! It's over to MCCURDY's, getting caulked!" No boat! Then indeed did Mr. P. turn pale, and his knees did tremble. But IDA was not to be daunted. Bounding like a chamois o'er the rocks, to her house, she quickly returned with a long coil of rope, and instantly hurled it over the curling breakers with such a strong arm and true aim, that one end of it struck Mr. P. in the face with a crack like that of a giant's whip. He grasped the rope, and that instant his boat sank like a rock! IDA hauled away like a steam-engine, and Mr. P.'s prow (his nose, you know,) cut through the water like a knife, in a straight line for the shore. In front of him he saw a great mass of sharp roots. He shuddered, but over them he went. On, on, he went, nor turned aside for jagged cleft or sharp-edged stone. A ship, loaded with queensware, had been wrecked near shore, and through a vast mass of broken plates, and cups, and saucers, Mr. P. went,--straight and swift as an arrow. At last, wet, bleeding, ragged, scratched, and feint, he reached the shore. Said IDA, as she supported him towards her dwelling: "How did you ever come to be wrecked on such a day as this?" Mr. P. hesitated. But with such a noble creature, the truth would surely be the best. He told her all. "Oh!" said he. "Dear girl, 'twas I, myself, who hewed down my mast and scuttled my fair bark. And I did it, maiden fair! that thy brave arm might rescue me from the watery deep, (you know what a good thing it would be for both of us when it got in the papers,) and that on thy hardy bosom I might be borne--" "Born jackass!" interrupted IDA. "I believe that everybody who comes to Newport make fools of themselves about me; but you are certainly the Champion Fool of the Lime Rocks." Mr. P. couldn't deny it. * * * * * Alphabetical. From the insult passed upon Count BENDETTI, at Ems, it appears that the Prussian government does not always mind its P's and Q's. * * * * * A ROSE BY ANY OTHER NAME. A Love Tale. I. "I won't do it--there!" Miss ANGELINA VAVASOUR sat her little fat body down in a chair, slapped her little fat hands upon her little fat knees, swelled her little fat person until she looked like a big gooseberry just ready to burst, and then turned her little fat red face up to Mr. JOHN SMITH, who was standing before her. "I regret," said Mr. J.S., "that you should refuse to be Mrs. JOHN SMITH." (ANGELINA shuddered.) "Might I ask you why?" "No," said she. "Say, my age." "But I don't object to that," said J.S. "Well, I won't," said ANGELINA, "that's all!" J.S. rubbed the fur on his hat the wrong way, pulled up his shirt collar, looked mournfully at the idol of his heart, and departed. Why did she refuse him? Listen! About a thousand or two years ago--well, perhaps we had better not go so far back--anyhow, Miss VAVASOUR had ancestors, and she was proud of them; she had a name, and she gloried in it; she had $100,000, and therefore insisted on keeping her aristocratic name; she had kept it for forty years, and was willing to take a contract for the rest of the job, though she did feel that she needed a man to slide down the hill of time with her, and she was rather fond of SMITH. Mr. JOHN SMITH wanted to marry her for herself alone, though he had made inquiries and knew all about that $100,000. Thus it was. II. "That's all!" Miss VAVASOUR had said. But was it all? She thought it was matrimony; J.S. thought it was matter o' money, and J.S. had a long head--an awfully long head. Mr. JOHN SMITH sat before the grate. His auburn locks, his Roman nose, his little grey eyes, his thin lips, his big ears, and each particular hair of his red whiskers, expressed intense disgust. He was day-dreaming, seeing visions in the fire. There he saw Miss ANGELINA VAVASOUR. Her eyes were ten dollar gold pieces, her nose a little pile of ducats, each cheek seemed swelled out by large quantities of dollars, every tooth in her head was a double-eagle, and her hair was a mass of ingots. He heaved a sigh and took a fresh chew. The tobacco seemed to refresh him; he walked the floor for a while, and then sat in his chair. Suddenly his countenance was irradiated, like a ripening squash at early morn, and he sprang to his feet, crying out, "Eureka! I'll do it." III. Eureka! How? What? Thus. One month afterwards our hero presented himself at the house of Miss VAVASOUR, carrying under his arm a large volume, bound in calf. "Miss VAVASOUR," said he, "I come to repeat my proposition to you. Will you reconsider?" "Sir?" said she. "Things have changed," said our hero. "Changed!" echoed she. "What do you mean, Mr. JOHN SMITH?" "Call me not by that vile cognomen," quoth he. "Look!" and he opened the Session Laws at page 1004. She read: "STATE OF NEW YORK, COUNTY OF BLANK. I, JONATHAN JERUSALEM, Clerk of said County, do hereby certify that the following change of name has been made by the County Court of this County, viz.: JOHN SMITH to AUGUSTUS VAVASOUR. In testimony whereof, I have set my hand and the seal of the County, June 3d, 1870. JONATHAN JERUSALEM, _Clerk_." [L.S.] She fell into his arms, and rested her palpitating head upon his palpitating bosom. He pulled up his shirt-collar, trod on the cat, and gently whispered, "$100,000." MORAL. A word to the wise. Go and do like-wise. LOT. * * * * * Gummy. The following is from a Western paper: "At Council Buffs, Iowa, a woman who don't chew gum is out of style, and gets the cold shoulder." Our comment upon the above is that there must be very little gumshun among the women of Council Bluffs. * * * * * [Illustration: "SUCH IS LIFE." Here you see Tom, Dick, and Harry, as they looked when starting in the morning for a day's fishing. And this is the same party, dejected, bedraggled, and foot-sore wearily making their way homeward after their day's "sport."] * * * * * DOWN THE BAY. Mr. Punchinello: It is just possible that you never went on a fine fishing excursion down the Bay with a party of nice young men. If you never did, don't. I confess it sounds well on paper. But it's a Deceit, a Snare, and a Hollow Mockery. I will narrate. Some days ago I was induced (the Deuce is in it if I ever am again) to participate in a supposed festivity of this nature. In the first place, we (the excursionists,) chartered a yacht, two Hands that knew the Ropes--they looked as if they might have been acquainted with the Rope's End--and a small Octoroon of the male persuasion as waiter. As CHOWLES characteristically observed, (he is a Stock Broker, and was one of the party,) "there is nothing like a feeling of Security." So we engaged a Skipper who was perfectly familiar with the BARINGS of the Banks, and Thoroughly Posted on all Sea 'Changes, at least so CHOWLES expressed it, but then he is apt to be somewhat technical at times. This accomplished mariner was reputed to have been "Round the Horn" several times, which I am led to believe was perfectly true, as he smelt strongly of spirits when he came on board. I was much discouraged at the appearance of this Skipper, and had half a mind to give my friends the Slip when I saw him on the Wharf. Having manned our craft, we purchased a colossal refrigerator in which to put our Bass and Weak Fish, laid in a stock of cold provisions--among other things a Cold Shoulder--plenty of exhilarating beverages, and, with Buoyant Spirits, (every Man of us,) and plenty of ice on board, started on the slack of the Morning Tide. I regret to state that by the time we were ready to start our Skipper was half way "Over the Bay," being provided with a pocket pistol charged to the muzzle. He and his two subordinates were pretty well "Shot in the neck" by the time we reached Fort Lafoyette.