[Organic Chemistry for Advanced Students — Gutenberg #38709]

89), and the Greek tradition preserved by Aeschylus (cf. above) shows that his greatness was acknowledged also by his enemies. He therefore deserves the homage which Xenophon paid to him in choosing him as hero for his didactic novel. 2. CYRUS THE YOUNGER, son of Darius II. and Parysatis, was born after the accession of his father in 424. When, after the victories of Alcibiades, Darius II. decided to continue the war against Athens and give strong support to the Spartans, he sent in 408 the young prince into Asia Minor, as satrap of Lydia and Phrygia Major with Cappadocia, and commander of the Persian troops, "which gather into the field of Castolos" (Xen. _Hell._ i. 4. 3; _Anab._ i. 9. 7), i.e. of the army of the district of Asia Minor. He gave strenuous support to the Spartans; evidently he had already then formed the design, in which he was supported by his mother, of gaining the throne for himself after the death of his father; he pretended to have stronger claims to it than his elder brother Artaxerxes, who was not born in the purple. For this plan he hoped to gain the assistance of Sparta. In the Spartan general Lysander he found a man who was willing to help him, as Lysander himself hoped to become absolute ruler of Greece by the aid of the Persian prince. So Cyrus put all his means at the disposal of Lysander in the Peloponnesian War, but denied them to his successor Callicratidas; by exerting his influence in Sparta, he brought it about that after the battle of Arginusae Lysander was sent out a second time as the real commander (though under a nominal chief) of the Spartan fleet in 405 (Xen. _Hell._ ii. 1. 14). At the same time Darius fell ill and called his son to his deathbed; Cyrus handed over all his treasures to Lysander and went to Susa. After the accession of Artaxerxes II. in 404, Tissaphernes denounced the plans of Cyrus against his brother (cf. Plut. _Artax._ 3); but by the intercession of Parysatis he was pardoned and sent back to his satrapy. Meanwhile Lysander had gained the battle of Aegospotami and Sparta was supreme in the Greek world. Cyrus managed very cleverly to gather a large army by beginning a quarrel with Tissaphernes, satrap of Caria, about the Ionian towns; he also pretended to prepare an expedition against the Pisidians, a mountainous tribe in the Taurus, which was never obedient to the Empire. Although the dominant position of Lysander had been broken in 403 by King Pausanias, the Spartan government gave him all the support which was possible without going into open war against the king; it caused a partisan of Lysander, Clearchus, condemned to death on account of atrocious crimes which he had committed as governor of Byzantium, to gather an army of mercenaries on the Thracian Chersonesus, and in Thessaly Menon of Pharsalus, head of a party which was connected with Sparta, collected another army. In the spring of 401 Cyrus united all his forces and advanced from Sardis, without announcing the object of his expedition. By dexterous management and large promises he overcame the scruples of the Greek troops against the length and danger of the war; a Spartan fleet of thirty-five triremes sent to Cilicia opened the passes of the Amanus into Syria and conveyed to him a Spartan detachment of 700 men under Cheirisophus. The king had only been warned at the last moment by Tissaphernes and gathered an army in all haste; Cyrus advanced into Babylonia, before he met with an enemy. Here ensued, in October 401, the battle of Cunaxa. Cyrus had 10,400 Greek hoplites and 2500 peltasts, and besides an Asiatic army under the command of Ariaeus, for which Xenophon gives the absurd number of 100,000 men; the army of Artaxerxes he puts down at 900,000. These numbers only show that he, although an eyewitness, has no idea of large numbers; in reality the army of Cyrus may at the very utmost have consisted of 30,000, that of Artaxerxes of 40,000 men. Cyrus saw that the decision depended on the fate of the king; he therefore wanted Clearchus, the commander of the Greeks, to take the centre against Artaxerxes. But Clearchus, a tactician of the old school, disobeyed. The left wing of the Persians under Tissaphernes avoided a serious conflict with the Greeks; Cyrus in the centre threw himself upon Artaxerxes, but was slain in a desperate struggle. Afterwards Artaxerxes pretended to have killed the rebel himself, with the result that Parysatis took cruel vengeance upon the slayer of her favourite son. The Persian troops dared not attack the Greeks, but decoyed them into the interior, beyond the Tigris, and tried to annihilate them by treachery. But after their commanders had been taken prisoners the Greeks forced their way to the Black Sea. By this achievement they had demonstrated the internal weakness of the Persian empire and the absolute superiority of the Greek arms. The history of Cyrus and of the retreat of the Greeks is told by Xenophon in his _Anabasis_ (where he tries to veil the actual participation of the Spartans). Another account, probably from Sophaenetus of Stymphalus, was used by Ephorus, and is preserved in Diodor. xiv. 19 ff. Further information is contained in the excerpts from Ctesias by Photius; cf. also Plutarch's life of Artaxerxes. The character of Cyrus is highly praised by the ancients, especially by Xenophon (cf. also his _Oeconomics_, c. iv.); and certainly he was much superior to his weak brother in energy and as a general and statesman. If he had ascended the throne he might have regenerated the empire for a while, whereas it utterly decayed under the rule of Artaxerxes II. (See also PERSIA: _Ancient History_.) (Ed. M.) CYSTOFLAGELLATA (so named by E. Haeckel), a group of Mastigophorous Protozoa, distinguished from Flagellata by their large size (0.15-1.5 mm.), and their branched endoplasm, recalling that of _Trachelius_ among Infusoria, within a firm ectosarc bounded by a strong cuticle. Nutrition is holozoic, a deep groove leading down to a mouth and pharynx. A long fine flagellum arises from the pharynx in _Noctiluca_ (E. Suriray) _Leptodiscus_ and (R. Hertwig); and in the former genus, a second flagellum, thick, long and transversely striated, rises farther out, in the groove; this was likened by E. R. Lankester to a proboscis, whence his name of Rhynchoflagellata, which we discard as unnecessary and posterior to Haeckel's. _Noctiluca_ has thus the form of an apple with a long stalk. _Leptodiscus_ (R. Hertwig) has the form of a medusa without a proboscis--it is menisciform with the thin contractile margin produced inwards like a velum on the concave side, while the mouth is on the convex surface and the single flagellum springs from a blind tube on the same surface. _Craspedotella_ (C. A. Kofoid), the third genus, is still more medusiform, with a broad velum, and the mouth in a convex central protrusion of the roof of the bell; and a thick flagellum springs from a blind tube on the convex surface. All three genera are pelagic and phosphorescent, this property being seated in the ectoplasm; _Noctiluca miliaris_ is indeed the chief source of the phosphorescence of our summer seas. O. Bütschli, like other writers, regards the Cystoflagellates as closely allied to the Dinoflagellates, the small flagellum corresponding to the longitudinal, the large flagellum to the transverse flagellum of that group. [Illustration: After E. Ray Lankester, _Ency. Brit._, 9th ed. Cystoflagellate Protozoa. 1 and 2, Young stages of _Noctiluca miliaris_. a, the big flagellum; the unlettered filament becomes the oral flagellum of the adult. n, nucleus. s, the so-called spine (superficial ridge of the adult). 3 and 4, Two stages in the fission of _Noctiluca miliaris_, Suriray. n, nucleus. N, food-particles. t, muscular flagellum. 5. _Noctiluca miliaris_, viewed from the aboral side (after Allman, _Quart. Jour. Mic. Sci._, 1872). a, entrance to atrium or flagellar fossa (= longitudinal groove of Dinoflagellata). c, superficial ridge. d, big flagellum (= flagellum of transverse groove of Dinoflagellata). h, nucleus. 6. _Noctiluca miliaris_, acted upon by iodine solution, showing the protoplasm shrunk away from the structureless pellicle. a = entrance to atrium. 7. Lateral view of _Noctiluca miliaris_. a, entrance to atrium. b, atrium. c, superficial ridge. d, big flagellum. e = mouth and gullet, in which is seen Krohn's oral flagellum (= the chief flagellum, or flagellum of the longitudinal groove of Dinoflagellata). f, broad process of protoplasm extending from the superficial ridge c to the central protoplasm. g, duplicature of pellicle in connexion with superficial ridge. h, nucleus.] The reproduction of _Noctiluca_ has been fairly made out; in the adult state it divides by fission down the oral groove; as a preliminary the external differentiations disappear, and the nucleus divides by modified mitosis; then the external organs are regenerated. Under circumstances not well made out, conjugation between two adults takes place by their fusion commencing at the oral region; flagella and pharynx disappear and the nuclei fuse, while the cytoplasts condense into a sphere. The nucleus undergoes broad division, the young nuclei pass to the surface, which becomes imperfectly divided by grooves into as many rounded prominences as there are nuclei (up to 128 or 256); and these become constricted off from the residual useless cytoplasm as zoospores with two unequal flagella, which were at first regarded as Dinoflagellates, of which they have the form (figs. 5, 6). The metamorphosis of these has not yet been observed. LITERATURE.--E. Suriray, _Magazin de zoologie_, 1836; G. J. Allman, _Quarterly Journal of Microscopic Science_, n.s. xii., 1872; L. Cienkowsky, "Zoospore formation in Noctiluca," _Archiv f. mikroskopische Anatomie_, vii., 1871; R. Hertwig, "Leptodiscus," _Jenaische Zeitschrift_, xi., 1877; C. Ischikawa, _Journal of the College of Science_ (Tokyo, 1894), xii., 1899; F. Doflein, "Conjugation of Noctiluca," _Zoologische Jahrbücher, Anatomie_, xiv., 1900; C. A. Kofoid, "Craspedotella," in _Bull. Mus. Comp. Zool. Harvard_, xlvi., 1905; O. Bütschli, "Mastigophora," in _Protozoa_ (_Braun's Thierreich_, vol. i., _Protozoa_) (1883-1887). (M. Ha.) CYSTOLITH (Gr. [Greek: kystis], cavity, and [Greek: lithos], stone), a botanical term for the inorganic concretions, usually of calcium carbonate, formed in a cellulose matrix in special cells, generally in the leaf of plants of certain families, e.g. _Ficus elastica_, the india-rubber plant. CYTHERA (mod. _Cerigo_, but still officially known as Cythera), one of the Ionian islands, situated not less than 150 m. from Zante, but only about 8 m. from Cape Malea on the southern coast of Greece. Its length from N. to S. is nearly 20 m., and its greatest breadth about 12; its area is 114 sq. m. The surface is rocky and broken, but streams abound, and there are various parts of considerable fertility. Two caves, of imposing dimensions, and adorned with stalactites of great