# Invergowrie railway station

Invergowrie railway station is a railway station which serves the village of Invergowrie, west of the city of Dundee, Scotland on the north bank of the Firth of Tay. It is the only intermediate station between Dundee and Perth, on the Glasgow to Dundee line, approximately  from Dundee station – and only around  from the city's western boundary – and just over  from Perth. ScotRail, who manage the station, provide all the services.

History 
It was built by the Dundee and Perth Railway, a constituent company of the Scottish Central Railway and later the Caledonian Railway and opened in 1848.  It has been threatened with closure on several occasions since the 1950s, narrowly avoiding the Beeching Axe and being reprieved again by British Rail in 1985 (unlike neighbouring , which closed in September that year).

Transport Scotland announced in March 2016 that Invergowrie would be one of several stations to benefit from a timetable upgrade that will see 200 additional services introduced across the Scotrail network from 2018.

The 1900 footbridge is category C listed.

An accident in October 1979, due to a signal passed at danger, killed five people and injured 59 others.

Facilities 
The station only has very basic facilities. Platform 2 has a small shelter, a bench and a payphone, whilst platform 1 only has a single bench. The only step-free access at the station is between Station Road and platform 2, although the ramp has a moderate gradient. The platforms are linked by a footbridge. As there are no facilities to purchase tickets, passengers must buy one in advance, or from the guard on the train.

Services
As of May 2023, there is a roughly hourly service which calls here to both Glasgow Queen Street and Dundee. A small number of extra trains run at peak times to/from Perth, and there are also a few trains to/from Aberdeen or Arbroath to the east as extensions of the service to Dundee. There is no Sunday service.

References

External links 

 Video footage of the station on YouTube

Railway stations in Perth and Kinross
Former Caledonian Railway stations
Railway stations in Great Britain opened in 1847
Railway stations served by ScotRail
1847 establishments in Scotland