# Celtic music

Celtic music is a broad grouping of music genres that evolved out of the folk music traditions of the Celtic people of Northwestern Europe (the modern Celtic nations). It refers to both orally-transmitted traditional music and recorded music and the styles vary considerably to include everything from traditional music to a wide range of hybrids.

Description and definition 
Celtic music means two things mainly. First, it is the music of the people that identify themselves as Celts. Secondly, it refers to whatever qualities may be unique to the music of the Celtic nations. Many notable Celtic musicians such as Alan Stivell and Paddy Moloney claim that the different Celtic music genres have a lot in common.

These following melodic practices may be used widely across the different variants of Celtic Music:

It is common for the melodic line to move up and down the primary chords in many Celtic songs. There are a number of possible reasons for this:
Melodic variation can be easily introduced. Melodic variation is widely used in Celtic music, especially by the pipes and harp.
It is easier to anticipate the direction that the melody will take, so that harmony either composed or improvised can be introduced: clichéd cadences that are essential for impromptu harmony are also more easily formed.
The relatively wider tonal intervals in some songs make it possible for stress accents within the poetic line to be more in keeping with the local Celtic accent.
Across just one Celtic group.
By more than one Celtic language population belonging to different Celtic groups.

These two latter usage patterns may simply be remnants of formerly widespread melodic practices.

Often, the term Celtic music is applied to the music of Ireland and Scotland because both lands have produced well-known distinctive styles which actually have genuine commonality and clear mutual influences. The definition is further complicated by the fact that Irish independence has allowed Ireland to promote 'Celtic' music as a specifically Irish product. However, these are modern geographical references to a people who share a common Celtic ancestry and consequently, a common musical heritage.

These styles are known because of the importance of Irish and Scottish people in the English speaking world, especially in the United States, where they had a profound impact on American music, particularly bluegrass and country music. The music of Wales, Cornwall, the Isle of Man, Brittany, Galician traditional music (Spain) and music of Portugal are also considered Celtic music, the tradition being particularly strong in Brittany, where Celtic festivals large and small take place throughout the year, and in Wales, where the ancient eisteddfod tradition has been revived and flourishes. Additionally, the musics of ethnically Celtic peoples abroad are vibrant, especially in Canada and the United States. In Canada the provinces of Atlantic Canada are known for being a home of Celtic music, most notably on the islands of Newfoundland, Cape Breton and Prince Edward Island. The traditional music of Atlantic Canada is heavily influenced by the Irish, Scottish and Acadian ethnic makeup of much of the region's communities. In some parts of Atlantic Canada, such as Newfoundland, Celtic music is as or more popular than in the old country.  Further, some older forms of Celtic music that are rare in Scotland and Ireland today, such as the practice of accompanying a fiddle with a piano, or the Gaelic spinning songs of Cape Breton remain common in the Maritimes.  Much of the music of this region is Celtic in nature, but originates in the local area and celebrates the sea, seafaring, fishing and other primary industries.

Instruments associated with Celtic Music include the Celtic harp, uilleann pipes or Great Highland bagpipe, fiddle, tin whistle, flute, bodhrán, bones, concertina, accordion and a recent addition, the Irish bouzouki.

Divisions 

In Celtic Music: A Complete Guide, June Skinner Sawyers acknowledges six Celtic nationalities divided into two groups according to their linguistic heritage. The Q-Celtic nationalities are the Irish, Scottish and Manx peoples, while the P-Celtic groups are the Cornish, Bretons and Welsh peoples. Musician Alan Stivell uses a similar dichotomy, between the Gaelic (Irish/Scottish/Manx) and the Brythonic (Breton/Welsh/Cornish) branches, which differentiate "mostly by the extended range (sometimes more than two octaves) of Irish and Scottish melodies and the closed range of Breton and Welsh melodies (often reduced to a half-octave), and by the frequent use of the pure pentatonic scale in Gaelic music."

There is also tremendous variation between Celtic regions. Ireland, Scotland, Wales, Cornwall, and Brittany have living traditions of language and music, and there has been a recent major revival of interest in Celtic heritage in the Isle of Man. Galicia has a Celtic language revival movement to revive the Q-Celtic Gallaic language used into Roman times., which is not an attested language unlike Celtiberian. A Brythonic language may have been spoken in parts of Galicia and Asturias into early Medieval times brought by Britons fleeing the Anglo-Saxon invasions via Brittany., but here again there are several hypotheses and very little traces of it : lack of archeological, linguistic evidence and documents. The Romance language currently spoken in Galicia, Galician (Galego) is closely related to the Portuguese language used mainly in Brazil and Portugal and in many ways closer to Latin than other Romance languages. Galician music is claimed to be Celtic. The same is true of the music of Asturias, Cantabria, and that of Northern Portugal (some say even traditional music from Central Portugal can be labeled Celtic).

Breton artist Alan Stivell was one of the earliest musicians to use the word Celtic and Keltia in his marketing materials, starting in the early 1960s as part of the worldwide folk music revival of that era with the term quickly catching on with other artists worldwide.  Today, the genre is well established and incredibly diverse.

Forms 
There are musical genres and styles specific to each Celtic country, due in part to the influence of individual song traditions and the characteristics of specific languages:
 Celtic traditional music
 Music of Ireland
 Music of Scotland
 Music of Wales
 Strathspeys are specific to Highland Scotland, for example, and it has been hypothesized that they mimic the rhythms of the Scottish Gaelic language.
 Reels
 Pibroch
 Cerdd Dant (string music) or Canu Penillion (verse singing) is the art of vocal improvisation over a given melody in Welsh musical tradition. It is an important competition in eisteddfodau. The singer or (small) choir sings a counter melody over a harp melody.
 Waulking song
 Puirt à beul
 Kan ha diskan
 Sean-nós singing
 Celtic hip hop
 Celtic rock
 Celtic metal
 Celtic punk
 Celtic fusion
 Progressive music
 Folk music

Festivals 
See list of Celtic festivals for a more complete list of Celtic festivals by country, including music festivals. Festivals focused largely or partly on Celtic music can be found at :Category:Celtic music festivals.
The modern Celtic music scene involves a large number of music festivals, as it has traditionally.  Some of the most prominent festivals focused solely on music include:
Festival Internacional do Mundo Celta de Ortigueira (Ortigueira, Galicia, Spain)
Festival Intercéltico de Avilés (Avilés, Asturies, Spain)
Folixa na Primavera (Mieres, Asturies, Spain)
Festival Celta Internacional Reino de León, (León, Spain)
Festival Internacional de Música Celta de Collado Villalba (Collado Villalba, Spain)
Yn Chruinnaght (Isle of Man)
Celtic Connections (Glasgow, Scotland)
Hebridean Celtic Festival (Stornoway, Scotland)

Fleadh ceol na hÉireann (Tullamore, Ireland)
Festival Intercéltico de Sendim (Sendim, Portugal)
Galaicofolia (Esposende, Portugal)
Festival Folk Celta Ponte da Barca (Ponte da Barca, Portugal)
Douro Celtic Fest (Vila Nova de Gaia, Portugal)
Festival Interceltique de Lorient (Lorient, France)
Festival del Kan ar Bobl (Lorient, France)
Festival de Cornouaille (Quimper, France)
Les Nuits Celtiques du Stade de France (Paris, France)
Montelago Celtic Night (Colfiorito, Macerata, Italy)
Triskell International Celtic Festival (Trieste, Italy)
 Festival celtique de Québec or Québec city celtic festival, (Quebec city, Quebec, Canada)
Festival Mémoire et Racines (Saint-Charles-Borromée, Quebec, Canada)
Celtic Colours (Cape Breton, Nova Scotia, Canada)
Paganfest (Tour through Europe)

Celtic fusion 

The oldest musical tradition which fits under the label of Celtic fusion originated in the rural American south in the early colonial period and incorporated English, Scottish, Irish, Welsh, German, and African influences. Variously referred to as roots music, American folk music, or old-time music, this tradition has exerted a strong influence on all forms of American music, in