# Bienen School of Music

The Henry and Leigh Bienen School of Music is the music and performance arts school of Northwestern University. It is located on Northwestern University's campus in Evanston, Illinois, United States. 

The school was previously known as the Northwestern University School of Music from 1895 until September 2008, when it was renamed to honor retiring University president Henry Bienen and his wife, Leigh Buchanan Bienen.

Description
The Bienen School offers performance degrees in all orchestral instruments, piano, guitar, voice, jazz studies, and conducting, as well as academic degrees in composition, musicology, music history, music education, and music theory and cognition. It offers a dual-degree undergraduate program in liberal arts, journalism, engineering, communication, or education and social policy in conjunction with those respective university schools. The Bienen School has approximately 125 faculty members, 400 undergraduate students, and 200 graduate students.

History
The Bienen School of Music is one of the oldest degree-granting music schools in the United States. Its beginnings date to 1873, when the Northwestern Female College and the Evanston College for Ladies were incorporated into the Northwestern University Woman's College. This new institution established the Conservatory of Music, and in 1891, Peter Christian Lutkin was named its director. In 1895, it became the School of Music, with Lutkin serving as its first dean.

During Lutkin's 33-year tenure, a new music building opened, the "Beehive" practice facility was constructed, and the first honorary doctor of music degree was awarded in 1915 to Frederick Stock, conductor of the Chicago Symphony Orchestra. Lutkin was succeeded in 1928 by Carl Beecher, who had earned the school's first bachelor's degree. Music education professor John W. Beattie was appointed the school's third dean in 1936. During his administration the graduate program was expanded and Lutkin Hall constructed in 1941. George Howerton, assumed the deanship in 1951. Under his leadership the school established an opera program, began a series of guest artist master classes, and increased the music library's holdings. He was succeeded in 1971 by Thomas Miller, whose tenure brought sweeping revisions to the undergraduate curriculum as well as the opening of Pick-Staiger Concert Hall in 1975 and Regenstein Hall of Music in 1977. Bernard J. Dobroski became the school's sixth dean in 1990. His term featured an emphasis on faculty and student recruitment, expansion of course offerings for non-majors, and community engagement programs.

Toni-Marie Montgomery has served as dean since 2003. Under her leadership the school has established two international awards, the Jean Gimbel Lane Prize in Piano Performance and the Michael Ludwig Nemmers Prize in Music Composition; focused on guest-artist residencies; established the Institute for New Music; provided all doctor of musical arts candidates with full-tuition scholarships; opened the Patrick G. and Shirley W. Ryan Center for the Musical Arts; appointed the Dover Quartet as the school's quartet-in-residence; and secured funding for a tour to Asia in 2018 by the Northwestern University Symphony Orchestra.

Areas of study
The Bienen School of Music offers 15 academic majors in six degree programs. The ad hoc, or self-designed, major offers an option for students whose interests fall outside the school's standard offerings. The Bienen School offers programs in the following areas of study:

Music Performance 
 Brass
 Percussion
 Strings
 Harp
 Piano and Piano Pedagogy
 Woodwinds
 Voice and Opera
 Jazz Studies
 Conducting

Music Studies 
 Composition and Music Technology
 Music Education
 Music Theory and Cognition
 Musicology

Performing Ensembles
The Bienen School of Music currently sponsors 20 ensembles: the Symphony Orchestra, Chamber Orchestra, Baroque Music Ensemble, Symphonic Wind Ensemble, Symphonic Band, Contemporary Music Ensemble, Philharmonia, Concert Band, Jazz Orchestra, Jazz Small Ensembles, University Chorale, University Singers, Bienen Contemporary/Early Vocal Ensemble, Alice Millar Chapel Choir, Northwestern Camerata, Brass Choir, Cello Ensemble, Saxophone Ensemble, Percussion Ensemble, and Guitar Ensemble. Some ensembles are open to music majors only. In addition, students can form chamber music groups of their own. Victor Yampolsky is the director of orchestras, Donald Nally is the director of choral organizations, and Mallory Thompson is the director of bands.

Guest Artist Series 
The Bienen School of Music currently hosts 4 professional guest artist subscription series.

Established in 1993, the Segovia Classical Guitar Series brings artists and young rising stars, including winners of the Guitar Foundation of America International Competition, to Chicago's North Shore. Recently, the series has welcomed classical guitarists Eduardo Fernandez, Ekachai Jearakul, lutenist Paul O'Dette, the Assad Brothers, and Raphaella Smits, among others.

The Skyline Piano Artist Series was established in 2015 to bring pianists from around the world to perform in the Mary B. Galvin Recital Hall. Recently, the series has hosted Jonathan Biss, Emanuel Ax, Sergei Babayan, Jorge Federico Osorio, and 2017 Van Cliburn International Piano Competition winner Yekwon Sunwoo.

The Tichio-Finnie Vocal Master Class Series debuted in 2014 and has featured such vocalists as Renée Fleming, Isabel Leonard, Marilyn Horne, Matthew Polenzani, and composer Jake Heggie. The series allows Bienen School voice and opera program students to perform for and be coached by opera professionals.

The Winter Chamber Music Festival hosts guest artists and Bienen School faculty for three weekends each January. This series is focused heavily on string quartets and other chamber ensembles and has featured artists including the Dover Quartet, Pinchas Zukerman, Simone Lamsma, and the Kalichstein-Laredo-Robinson Trio.

Bienen School Prizes

Michael Ludwig Nemmers Prize in Music Composition

In fall 2003, the Bienen School of Music established the Michael Ludwig Nemmers Prize in Music Composition, a biennial award honoring classical music composers of outstanding achievement. Nominations are solicited worldwide and the winner is determined by a three-member selection committee, comprising individuals of widely recognized stature in the music community. The prize includes a cash award of $100,000 and a performance by the Chicago Symphony Orchestra. The recipient is expected to participate in two to three nonconsecutive weeks of residency at the Bienen School of Music interacting with students and faculty. In addition to the Michael Ludwig Nemmers Prize in Music Composition, Northwestern University administers four other Nemmers prizes: the Frederic Esser Nemmers Prize in Mathematics, the Erwin Plein Nemmers Prize in Economics, the Mechthild Esser Nemmers Prize in Medical Science, and the Nemmers Prize in Earth Sciences.

Past winners include:

 2004: John Adams
 2006: Oliver Knussen
 2008: Kaija Saariaho
 2010: John Luther Adams
 2012: Aaron Jay Kernis
 2014: Esa-Pekka Salonen
 2016: Steve Reich
 2018: Jennifer Higdon

The Jean Gimbel Lane Prize in Piano Performance

In 2005, the Bienen School of Music established the biennial Jean Gimbel Lane Prize in Piano Performance to honor pianists who have achieved the highest levels of national and international recognition. Winners receive a $50,000 cash award and spend two to three non-consecutive weeks in residence at the Bienen School of Music, interacting with students and faculty. As part of one of the residency weeks, winners offer a public performance.

Past winners include:

 2006: Richard Goode
 2008: Stephen Hough
 2010: Yefim Bronfman
 2012: Murray Perahia
 2014: Garrick Ohlsson
 2016: Emanuel Ax
 2018: Marc-André Hamelin

Facilities

School Buildings
In its earlier Days, the Bienen School of Music was housed in two buildings. 
The Music Administration Building was designed by Gurdon P. Randall and built in 1873 as the Women's College of Northwestern University. In 1901 it was named for Frances E. Willard, and served as a women's dormitory.
It became the home of the Northwestern School of Music in 1940, and was renovated in 1988. Vocal studies, piano, and composition departments were housed in this building, in addition to administrative offices and academic classrooms.  The organ department, which formerly occupied a wing in this building, was controversially closed in 2003.

Regenstein Hall of Music was built in 1977. This building sits on the "Lakefill" and overlooks Lake Michigan.  It houses studios for the instrumental and conducting programs, practice rooms, a rehearsal room, and a recital hall.

In February 2008, the University announced that a new $105 million five-story building was to be erected as part of a renovation plan for the southeast corner of the campus. Construction began in June 2012. The new building, named after donor