# 2008 NBA All-Star Game

The 2008 NBA All-Star Game was an exhibition basketball game that was played on February 17, 2008, during the National Basketball Association's (NBA) 2007–08 season. It was the 57th edition of the NBA All-Star Game, and was played at New Orleans Arena in New Orleans, home of the New Orleans Hornets. The Eastern Conference defeated the Western Conference, 134–128. LeBron James was named the All-Star Game Most Valuable Player, his second time winning the award. This was the first NBA All-Star Game that was hosted by New Orleans, and was the city's first major professional sporting event (outside of regular season games) since the area was devastated by Hurricane Katrina in 2005. The city was awarded in an announcement by commissioner David Stern on May 22, 2006. The other reported contenders for the 2008 contest was Air Canada Centre at Toronto, who withdrew the bid early in 2005.

The East led early but blew a 16-point lead in the fourth quarter; ultimately, they pulled out the win due to the strength of Ray Allen and James. Allen scored 28 points in the game, 14 of them coming in the deciding quarter, and James finished with a near triple-double of 27 points, nine assists, and eight rebounds.

The inaugural NBA Development League Dream Factory Friday Night was modeled after the popular NBA All-Star Saturday Night. It included perennial NBA fan favorite events such as a Three-Point Shootout and Slam Dunk competition, while introducing H.O.R.S.E. and an interactive game of Hot-Shot with fans. Twelve D-League players, including an NBA-assigned player and five others with NBA experience, took to Center Court to showcase their skills throughout the evening's competitions.

All of the 2008 All-Star participants joined over 2,500 members of the NBA Family for the NBA Cares All-Star Day of Service. The volunteers participated in a variety of service projects at ten different sites throughout New Orleans.

The All-Star Game

Eastern Conference roster
The Boston Celtics, the team with the league's best record, came into New Orleans with three players. Kevin Garnett, top vote-getter in the league with 2,399,148 votes, was selected as a starter, while Paul Pierce and Ray Allen (replacing injured Washington Wizards forward Caron Butler) were selected as reserves by the coaches of the Eastern Conference Garnett did not play due to injury and Toronto Raptors forward Chris Bosh replaced him as starting power forward. Detroit Pistons forward Rasheed Wallace replaced Chris Bosh as the backup power forward. The Pistons, who at the time had the second-best record in the league, also had guards Chauncey Billups and Richard Hamilton participating.

Cleveland Cavaliers small forward LeBron James and Miami Heat shooting guard Dwyane Wade started for the fourth straight year and fourth overall for the East with two million votes each.  Center Dwight Howard was voted to be a starting All-Star for the first time in his career after averaging 22 points and 15 rebounds for the first half of the season. Shaquille O'Neal was not voted in as a center for the first time in 15 years. Jason Kidd was voted in as the starting point guard for the East amid speculation that he would be traded to the Western conference (Dallas Mavericks).

Western Conference roster
Los Angeles Lakers guard Kobe Bryant, 2007 All-Star MVP, was the top vote-getter in the West with nearly 2,000,500. However days before the game, he was examined by Lakers' doctors and revealed a torn ligament in his right pinky finger. Deciding to put off required surgery until after the season, the Lakers appealed to the league to replace Bryant but league policy stated Bryant must play after playing in the last game before the break.

Denver Nuggets guard Allen Iverson was voted an All-Star for the second time since moving to Denver. Along with him, teammate Carmelo Anthony earned a starting nod at forward. Power forward Tim Duncan made his tenth straight appearance and center Yao Ming his sixth (Yao Ming was voted to All-Star Game 2007 but did not play). Three teams, Denver Nuggets,  Phoenix Suns, and New Orleans Hornets, had two representations at the All-Star Game with Iverson/Anthony, Nash/Stoudemire, and Paul/West.

Rosters

Unable to participate due to injury. Chris Bosh was named to the starting lineup due to a Kevin Garnett injury
Unable to participate due to injury.  Ray Allen was named to the roster in place of Caron Butler. 
Unable to participate due to injury.  Rasheed Wallace was named to the roster in place of Kevin Garnett. 
Kobe Bryant played three minutes due to ligament tear in pinky

Coaches

The Eastern Conference team was coached by Doc Rivers of the Boston Celtics. He clinched it nearly a month before the game on January 21, against the New York Knicks. The Celtics entered All-Star Weekend with a 41–9 record, the best record and win percentage in the league.

The Western Conference team was coached by Byron Scott of the New Orleans Hornets. Scott clinched the coaching spot on January 31, when the Dallas Mavericks lost to the Boston Celtics in Boston. The Hornets entered All-Star Weekend with a 36–15 record, and the best winning percentage in the Conference at .706.

2008 NBA All-Star Game Boxscore 
NBA All-Star East

NBA All-Star West

All-Star Weekend

T-Mobile Rookie Challenge 
The Sophomores defeated the Rookies 136–109. During the first half of the game Daniel Gibson tied the record of Kyle Korver by hitting seven three-pointers (Korver's record was for the entire game). He later set the whole-game record in the second half with eleven total three-pointers, finishing the game shooting 11–20 from three-point range. Gibson was named MVP of the game, finishing with 33 points, 4 rebounds, 2 assists, and 2 steals.

Sprite Slam Dunk Contest
Gerald Green returned to defend his crown won in last year's All-Star game. Young NBA stars Rudy Gay, Dwight Howard and Jamario Moon were also invited. What made the Slam Dunk contest unique in 2008 was the introduction of the fan vote. While judges (in this particular contest, Karl Malone, Magic Johnson, Julius Erving, Darryl Dawkins and Dominique Wilkins) still scored dunks on a scale from one to fifty and selected those who would move on to the next round, fans had the last word.
NBA viewers for the first time could decide the winner of the Sprite Slam Dunk contest, under the tag line "They Dunk. You Decide." For five minutes after the final round, polls were open on NBA.com and through SMS TXT and the dunker with the most votes at the end of the time limit was the winner.
Dwight Howard won the contest, grabbing 78% of fan votes.

Foot Locker Three-Point Shootout 
Jason Kapono became the first back-to-back winner of the Foot Locker Three-Point Shootout since Peja Stojaković won in 2002 and 2003. Kapono also tied the all-time record set in 1986 by Craig Hodges by scoring 25 points in the final round.

Kobe Bryant was looking to be the first player to win a Slam Dunk contest and a Three-Point Shootout title until he was replaced by Dallas Mavericks forward Dirk Nowitzki due to injury.

PlayStation Skills Challenge

Utah Jazz guard Deron Williams won the Skills Challenge, with a first round time of 31.2 seconds and a record finish in 25.5 in his second run. For the first time since 2005, Dwyane Wade did not win the contest. He finished with a low 53.9 seconds, ending his streak at two. Jason Kidd, winner of the event in 2003, finished at 40 seconds. Chris Paul advanced to the finals with 29.9 seconds in the first go-around, but failed to match Williams in the end.

Haier Shooting Stars Competition 
After an impressive run in the first round, Team San Antonio took care of business in the finals of the 2008 Haier Shooting Stars challenge against Team Chicago, as Duncan drained a half-court shot to give the Texas threesome a time of 35.8 seconds.

D-League All-Star

D-League All-Star Game
Twenty of the NBA Development League's top players were selected to the D-League All-Star Game rosters by a combination of fan balloting on the official D-League website and voting by the 14 head coaches of D-League teams. The selections were divided up into two teams, the Red Team and the Blue Team, by members of the NBA and NBA D-League's Basketball Operations staff. Players who have been selected by coaches and fans must be on an active roster of a D-League team. Los Angeles D-Fenders head coach Dan Panaggio and Idaho Stampede head coach Bryan Gates were selected as the coach for the Blue Team and the Red Team respectively. Both coaches earned the honor by securing the best records in the D-League through January 31.

 Unable to participate due to a call-up to the Golden State Warriors.
 Named as replacement for C. J. Watson.

D-League Dream Factory Friday Night

H.O.R.S.E.
Two preliminary rounds of two games each were played with the winners of the first two rounds competing in a final round for the title of H.O.R.S.E. Champion. Each round was capped at five minu