[Organic Chemistry for Advanced Students — Gutenberg #38709]

of the chromatin. Not only does the occurrence of amitosis show that the mitotic mechanism is not essential for either nuclear or cytoplasmic division, but direct division may occur[31] in the life-history of the germ cells, the very point at which it should not occur had mitosis the significance usually attached to it. On the other hand, the most elaborate mitosis occurs in cell-tissues (e.g. skin of salamander larva) which can take no possible share in the reproduction of the species. Moreover, we have no reason for supposing that the division of the chromatin in amitosis is not as meristic, and its subsequent distribution as equal, as is so visibly the case in mitosis.[32] It is necessary, therefore, to seek for some other explanation of the elaborate mechanism of mitosis than that which assumes it necessary for the equal distribution of the divided chromatin granules. The present writer believes the true explanation to be found in that great economic law of nature, "division of labour." The same economy which, working under the control of natural selection, has produced the complexly differentiated tissues of the higher metazoa, which has led to the sexual differentiation between the conjugating gametes and thus to the sexual differentiation of the parents, has resulted in the production of mitosis. Only here the economy finds expression in division of labour, not in space, but in time. The work of the self-propagating chromatin granules is so ordered that periods of undisturbed metabolic activity alternate with periods of reproductive activity. The brief space of time occupied by the latter process has necessitated a more elaborate specialization of the forces--whatever their nature--controlling cell-division; a specialization which has resulted, just as a similar specialization in so many other cases has resulted, in a visible differentiation of the cell-protoplasm. This explanation is in harmony with the occurrence of typical mitosis in active tissue cells on the one hand, and of amitosis in the relatively quiescent primary germ cells on the other. _Individuality of the Chromosomes._--The most striking feature in the behaviour of the chromatin in mitosis is its resolution, at each division, into a--for any particular species--constant number of chromosomes. This constant recurrence of the specific number of chromosomes at every cell-division is capable of explanation in two radically different ways. One explanation assumes for the organism a specific peculiarity determining the segmentation of the spireme thread into a definite number of segments (Delage, 1899 and 1901).[33] The other regards chromosomes as independent units of the cell, retaining their identity between successive cell-divisions. The latter "Individualitäts Hypothese" was originally put forward by Theodor Boveri in 1887 as a result of C. Rabl's observation (1885) that in epidermal cells of the salamander larva the chromosomes reappear in the mitosis of the daughter cells with the same arrangement as they possessed in the prophase of the mother cell--the angles of the U-shaped chromosomes being all directed towards one pole (Rabl's "Poleseite") of the nucleus. In the formation of the "resting" nucleus, the chromatin, becoming metabolically active, flows out on to the linin reticulum, all trace of the chromosomes being for the time lost. In _Ascaris_, Boveri (1888) obtained similar but still more striking results. The thickened ends of the four elongated chromosomes cause projections on the nuclear surface throughout the resting period, and the ends of the reappearing chromosomes always coincided with these protuberances; cf. also Sutton (1902) on locust spermatagonia. Moreover, the arrangement of the chromosomes must follow one of three well-marked groupings, and this is determined for each individual in the cleavage spindle of the egg and maintained throughout later development (fig. 8). [Illustration: From Boveri's _Ergebnisse ü. d. Konstitution der chromatischen Substanz des Zellkerns_, by permission of Gustav Fischer. FIG. 8.--Preparation for Mitosis. a, Nucleus of "½ blastomere" of _Ascaris megalocephala bivalens_ in resting condition; b and c, nuclei from sister ½ blastomeres in preparation for mitosis.] In the same worm (var. _univalens_) Boveri (1888 and 1899) found that occasional abnormalities in maturation resulted in the suppression of the first polar body and the inclusion of its chromosomes in the second maturation spindle; the egg-nucleus at the time of fertilization thus having two chromosomes instead of one, while the spermatozoon nucleus has only one. Three chromosomes instead of two reappear in subsequent divisions. Boveri's "Individualitäts Hypothese" received striking support from the work of Herla (1893), L. R. Zoja (1895) and O. zur Strassen (1898). Herla and Zoja showed that if the egg of _Ascaris megalocephala_ (var. _bivalens_), which possesses two chromosomes, be fertilized with the spermatozoon of var. _univalens_, in which the germ cell has only one chromosome and that smaller than either of the two in the other variety, three chromosomes reappear, two large and one small, in the cleavage divisions of the resulting hybrid embryo. Zur Strassen's observations on the giant embryos of _Ascaris_ also support Boveri's theory. These embryos arise by the fusion of eggs, either before or after fertilization. The number of chromosomes in the subsequent cleavage-figures is proportional to the number of nuclei that have fused together. Similar results are given by Boveri's (1893-1895) and T. H. Morgan's (1895) experiments on the fertilization of enucleated sea-urchin egg-fragments; all the nuclei of the resulting embryo having only half the number of chromosomes characteristic of the species (e.g. in _Echinus_ 9 instead of 18). All the above facts point to the conclusion that, as Boveri expressed it in his _Grundgesetz der Zahlenkonstanz_ (1888), "the number of chromosomes arising from a resting nucleus is solely dependent on the number which originally entered into its composition."[34] _Boveri's Law of Proportional Nuclear Growth._--The chromatin in the nucleus is exactly halved at every cell-division. As the bulk of the chromatin remains constant from one cell-generation to another, it must double its bulk between successive divisions. That this proportional growth of the chromatin is dependent solely on the chromatin mass, and not on that of the cell, is very clearly indicated by cases where the normal chromatin mass has been artificially increased or reduced,[35] the chromatin in either case doubling its bulk between successive cell-divisions, and neither the mass of the chromatin nor the number of the chromosomes undergoing any readjustment. By double or partial fertilization, different regions in the same embryo may show nuclei of different sizes (Boveri). We must therefore distinguish in the cell between "young" and "adult" chromatin. In other words the chromatin must be regarded as being composed of individual units, each with a definite constant structure and maximum growth (Boveri, 1904). This conclusion is strongly suggested, not only by the evidence in favour of the individuality of the chromosomes considered above, but also by the independent reproductive activity of the chromatin granules in the prophase of mitosis. [Illustration: From Boveri's _Ergebnisse ü. d. Konstitution der chromatischen Substanz des Zellkerns_, by permission of Gustav Fischer. FIG. 9.--Preparation for Mitosis. a, Spermatogonium of _Brachystola magna_ with resting nucleus; b, Same with prophase for mitosis. (After Sutton.)] _Differentiation among the Chromosomes._--If we grant the assumption of a persistent individuality for the chromosomes, then it becomes possible to consider whether in one and the same nucleus these structures may not take varying parts in controlling the cell's activity in development and in inheritance. Such a differentiation among the chromosomes would be due to independent ancestry rather than to the economy resulting from a division of labour; nevertheless a division of labour of a sort would be the result of this gradual divergence of the chromosomes from one another, and we might therefore expect that, in some cases at least, a _morphological_ would accompany the _physiological_ differentiation. Examples of such a morphological differentiation do indeed occur in the "accessory" chromosomes first described by H. Henking (1891) for the spermatogonia of _Pyrrhocoris_, and since described for numerous other insects, Arachnids and Myriapods. W. Sutton's work on the spermatogenesis of _Brachystola magna_ is of especial interest in this connexion. Not only does the "accessory chromosome" in this insect form a resting nucleus independent, and obviously physiologically differentiated from that formed from the remaining chromosomes (fig. 9, a), but the latter are themselves differentiated by size, there being one pair of chromosomes of each size (fig. 9, b), a point of considerable interest when we remember that half the chromosomes in each cell are necessarily derived from each parent.[36] Although this morphological differentiation among the chromosomes is undoubtedly to be regarded as indicating a corresponding physiological differentiation, it by no means follows that the latter need always, or even generally, be accompanied by the former. Since, however, the specific characters of the organism must be due to the combined activity of _all_ the chromosomes, any physiological differentiation among the latter should result in abnormal development if the full complement of chromosomes be not present.[37] Boveri,[38] utilizing Herbst's method[39] for separating echinoderm blastomeres, has interpreted in this manner the abnormal development which H. Driesch[40] found almost invariably to follow the double fertilization of the sea-urchin egg. In such eggs the first cleavage spindle is four-poled. The chromosomes are half again as numerous as in normally fertilized eggs (54 instead of 36), but each is only divided once, so that in the distribution of the resulting 108 chromosomes the four daughter nuclei receive each only 27 instead of 36 (assuming the distribution to be fairly equal, which is by no means usually the case in four-poled mitosis). Driesch had already (1900) shown that any one of the first four blastomeres of a normally fertilized egg will, if isolated, develop normally. Boveri found that in the case of the doubly fertilized egg the isolated "¼" blastomeres develop very variously, a variability only to be accounted for by their varying chromosome equipment. Occasionally a three-poled instead of a four-poled figure resulted from double fertilization. In such cases Driesch found, as we should expect from Boveri's interpretation, that the percentage of approximately normal larvae was considerably greater; for not only would the chances of an equal distribution of the chromosomes be much greater, but the number received by each of the three daughter cells would approximate to, or even equal, the normal. _Reduction._--In all the Metazoa the prevailing, and in the higher forms the only, method of reproduction is by the union (conjugation) of two "sexually" differentiated germ-cells or "gametes"; a small motile "microgamete" or spermatozoon and a large yolk-laden "macrogamete" or ovum (see Reproduction). This differentiation between the germ-cells is another example of the advantages of division of labour; for while the onus of bringing about the union of the germ-cells is thrown entirely on the spermatozoon, the egg devotes itself to the accumulation of food-material (yolk) for the subsequent use of the developing embryo. Far more yolk is thus secreted than would be possible by the combined efforts of both the germ-cells had each of these at the same