# 1993–94 in English football

The 1993–94 season was the 114th season of competitive football in England.

Overview
From the start of this season, the Premier League would be sponsored by Carling, an association which would last for eight years. The Premier League was without a sponsor for the previous season.

Events

 Manchester United broke the English transfer record before the start of the season by paying relegated Nottingham Forest £3.75million for promising young midfielder Roy Keane. The 22-year-old Irishman was signed by Alex Ferguson as a long-term replacement for Bryan Robson, who at 36 was in the twilight of his illustrious Old Trafford career.
 Graham Taylor resigned as England manager after their failure to qualify for the World Cup. He was succeeded by Terry Venables.
 Sir Matt Busby died on 20 January at the age of 84. He had been associated with Manchester United since being appointed manager at the end of the Second World War, and remained at the club as a director after calling time on his managerial career in 1969.
 Manchester United won the Premiership title and FA Cup to become only the fourth club this century to be league champions and FA Cup winners in the same season. Only a 3–1 defeat against Aston Villa in the League Cup final prevented them from winning a unique treble of domestic trophies. They led the Premiership from the fourth game onwards and in the final table had an eight-point lead over second-placed Blackburn Rovers. French striker Eric Cantona scored 25 goals in all competitions and was voted PFA Players' Player of the Year. Ryan Giggs, Lee Sharpe and Andrei Kanchelskis also hit the headlines with their brilliant form. In the FA Cup final, United crushed Chelsea 4–0 thanks to two penalties from Eric Cantona and single goals from Mark Hughes and Brian McClair.
 Howard Kendall resigned three years into his second spell as Everton manager and was replaced by Norwich City's Mike Walker. They looked set for relegation from the Premiership on the final day of the season as they were 2–0 down to Wimbledon – just seven years after they had been league champions – but turned the tables on their opponents to win 3–2 and beat the drop. Sheffield United went down instead.
 Swindon Town, in the top division for the first time, were relegated from the Premiership after collecting just five wins, conceding 100 goals in 42 games.  Many fans pointed the finger of blame at the club's directors for giving the manager's job to the inexperienced John Gorman. Swindon were joined in the relegation zone by Sheffield United and Oldham Athletic.
 Bryan Robson left Manchester United after 13 years to become player-manager of Middlesbrough F.C. in place of Lennie Lawrence. Robson was impressed by the club's ambitions, which included plans for a new 30,000-seat stadium on the banks of the River Tees scheduled for completion in the summer of 1995. Robson brought in former Manchester United teammate Viv Anderson as his assistant.
 Huddersfield Town relocated from Leeds Road to the new Alfred McAlpine Stadium at Kirklees. Their new home was initially a two-sided 15,000-seat stadium, with plans for an eventual capacity of 25,000. It took its name from the world-famous building company, with which it had a 10-year sponsorship deal.
 After the end of the season, Tottenham Hotspur were docked 5 points and were found guilty of financial irregularities dating back to the 1980s and hit with the most severe punishment handed down on any English club: a £600,000 fine, 12 league points deducted for the 1994–95 season, and a one-year ban from the F.A Cup. The points deduction and F.A Cup were eventually quashed after a series of appeals, although the fine was increased to £1.5million.
 Northampton Town, who spent one season in the top division during the 1960s, finished bottom of Division Three but retained their league status because Conference champions Kidderminster Harriers were unable to meet the Football League's minimum stadium capacity requirements. This was the first time that there had been no exits or arrivals in the Football League since the re-election system was scrapped in 1987.

Famous debutants

15 September 1993: Darren Eadie, 18-year-old winger, makes his debut for Norwich City in their first ever European fixture – the UEFA Cup first round first leg clash with Dutch side Vitesse Arnhem.

22 September 1993: Robbie Fowler, 18-year-old striker, makes his debut for Liverpool in their 3–1 win at Fulham in the Football League Cup second round first leg.

29 September 1993: Stephen Carr, 17-year-old Irish defender, makes his debut for Tottenham Hotspur in a Premier League fixture against Ipswich Town at Portman Road.

3 November 1993: Ade Akinbiyi, 19-year-old London-born striker of Nigerian descent, makes his debut as a substitute for Norwich City in their UEFA Cup second round second leg fixture with Bayern Munich at Carrow Road, which ends in a 1–1 draw.

4 May 1994: Michael Duberry, 17-year-old defender, played in Chelsea's final Premier League game of the season – a 2–1 home defeat by Coventry City.

Top goalscorers

Premier League
Andy Cole (Newcastle United) – 34 goals

Division One
John McGinlay (Bolton Wanderers) – 25 goals

Division Two
Jimmy Quinn (Reading) – 35 goals

Division Three
Tony Ellis (Preston North End) – 26 goals

Honours

Notes = Number in parentheses is the times that club has won that honour (First Division & Premier League). Number after slash is Premier League only. * indicates new record for competition

England national team

Even with the 7–1 victory over San Marino (in which Davide Gualtieri scores the fastest goal in FIFA World Cup qualification history). England fail to qualify for the finals of the 1994 World Cup and manager Graham Taylor resigns within days of the failure. Terry Venables is appointed as his replacement.

Qualifying Group Final Positions

League tables

FA Premiership

The second season of the Premier League saw Manchester United retain their title, taking the lead before the end of August and not surrendering it all season, holding a double-digit lead for much of it and eventually finishing eight points ahead of runners-up Blackburn Rovers, who had managed to draw level on points with them a few weeks before the season's end. United then went on to lift the FA Cup and become only the sixth team ever to win the double of the league title and FA Cup. Their top scorer and key player Eric Cantona was voted PFA Players' Player of the Year, while colleagues including Ryan Giggs, Paul Ince and Lee Sharpe also received many plaudits. Blackburn Rovers finished runners-up, thanks to Alan Shearer, whose 31 goals earned him the FWA Footballer of the Year award but weren't quite enough to gain his team the league title.

Newly promoted Newcastle United finished third, largely thanks to the 34 goals of PFA Young Player of the Year Andy Cole who was the division's top scorer and his formidable strike partner Peter Beardsley, as well as support from the likes of Rob Lee and Barry Venison. Fourth placed Arsenal won the European Cup Winners' Cup to claim their sixth trophy in eight seasons under manager George Graham. Leeds United completed the top five, recovering from their dismal Premier League debut the previous season, while unfancied Wimbledon achieved an impressive sixth-place finish.

The previous season's runners-up, Aston Villa, dropped to 10th place in the league but compensated for this with a League Cup triumph. Norwich, who had finished third the previous campaign, started the season well but their league form slumped after manager Mike Walker left for Everton in January and they finished twelfth, while Walker's new club only narrowly avoided relegation.

Swindon Town, in the top flight for the first time, endured a hopeless season with just five wins in the league, 100 goals conceded and no wins from their opening 16 games; they went bottom of the table after three games, and never left it. Oldham Athletic's three-year spell in the top flight came to an end after they failed to defeat Norwich on the final day of the season, just weeks after they had almost reached the FA Cup final before a last-gasp equaliser for Manchester United in the semi-final forced a replay, in which they were well beaten. The last relegation place went to Sheffield United, who were relegated in dramatic fashion when they suffered a last minute defeat to FA Cup finalists Chelsea. Their late collapse meant that Ipswich Town were the lucky side to preserve their top flight status.

Leading goalscorer: Andy Cole (Newcastle United) - 34

League Division One

Alan Smith kicked off his management career by guiding Crystal Palace to the Division One title and regaining their Premiership place at first invitation. Frank Clark began Nottingham Forest's post Brian Clough era by helping them finish second to achieve promotion back to the top flight. They were joined by play-off winners Leicester City, who beat local rivals Derby County