# St. Andrew's Episcopal School (Maryland)

St. Andrew's Episcopal School is a coeducational college preparatory independent school for preschool, beginning at age two, through grade twelve. St. Andrew's is located at 8804 Postoak Road, Potomac, Maryland, in Montgomery County. As of 2022-2023, total enrollment is 704. The student to faculty ratio is 7:1.

Academics
The school operates on trimesters. Students in grades 6–12 attend on average four classes per day. Upper School and Middle School students take five major academic courses per year – English, History, Language, Mathematics, and Science. Religion, art (visual and performing) and athletics are required at least one trimester per year.

In 2011, the school founded the Center for Transformative Teaching and Learning (CTTL), a professional development program for its faculty which develops the school's curriculum. The Chan Zuckerberg Initiative contributed $1 million to this effort.

Begun in 1998, the Oral History project, the signature academic program in the Upper School, houses one of the largest pre-collegiate collection of oral histories in North America.

The school is a member of College Entrance Examination Board, Cum Laude Society, National Association of College Admissions Counseling, National Association of Independent Schools, National Association of Episcopal Schools, and Potomac & Chesapeake Association of College Admissions Counseling. It is fully accredited by the Association of Independent Maryland Schools, Maryland State Department of Education, and Middle States Association of Colleges and Schools. Advanced Placement classes are available in fourteen disciplines.

In April 2020, the school was among the dozens in the Washington, D.C., area which met the legal criteria for and received an unspecified amount in federally backed small business loans as part of the Paycheck Protection Program. The school received scrutiny over this loan, which was meant to protect small and private businesses.

Notable alumni and students
 Pierre Omidyar, founder of eBay and philanthropist with Omidyar Network.
 Whitney Cummings, actress, comedian, author, and co-creator of 2 Broke Girls sitcom.
 Melissa d'Arabian, Food network personality, cook, author.
 Steven Levenson, Tony Award-winner for Best Book of a Musical for "Dear Evan Hansen".
 Kate Siegel, actress and screenwriter.
 Barron Trump, son of 45th President of the United States Donald Trump. (Did not graduate) 
 Nitya Vidyasagar, actress

References

External links
 
History of the School - St. Andrew's Archives

Private K-12 schools in Montgomery County, Maryland
Educational institutions established in 1978
1978 establishments in Maryland
Episcopal schools in Maryland
Schools in Potomac, Maryland