# Lawson railway station

Lawson railway station is a heritage-listed railway station located on the Main Western line in Lawson in the City of Blue Mountains local government area of New South Wales, Australia. It is also known as Lawson Railway Station Group and Christmas Swamp; Blue Mountain. The property was added to the New South Wales State Heritage Register on 2 April 1999. The station opened on 11 July 1867 as Blue Mountain, being renamed Lawson on 21 April 1879. A passing loop exists north of Platform 1. As part of widening work to the Great Western Highway, a siding south of Platform 2 was removed and a new submerged siding constructed west of the station.

History 
There was a halt at Lawson from the beginning of the railway through the mountains in 1867, bearing the name Blue Mountain initially after Wilson's "Blue Mountain Inn" 400 metres away. In 1879 when the station changed its name to Lawson, a brick platform and station building were added and this remained unchanged until 1902. Like most stations between Emu Plains and Lithgow, duplication of the line in 1902 brought a new island platform and station buildings in Federation style. The 1879 platform opposite remained for Down trains.

Various modifications to the refuge siding and loop were made in 1907 and 1915. At the Lithgow end of the main structure, the roof was extended to provide a shelter for a signal interlocking frame, which was installed in 1915, though the signal levers were not enclosed with a signal box until 1921.

In 1944 the island platform was extended to the west end and it was at this time that subway access was provided to the platform from the Sydney-bound side. This accorded with the traditional NSW practice between 1900 and 1920 of providing only single-side subway access.

Lawson became an important station as locomotives took on water at that location. Lawson had a large water-tank and an unusual number of water columns since it was the principal watering-halt for Down trains. Recent widening of the Great Western Highway has revealed the remains of what appears to be an underground tank of unknown use.

The station was accompanied by a Station Masters residence which was built in , and replaced by the existing Station Master's residence in . When Chief Commissioner E.M.G. Eddy, was appointed in 1888, he undertook to increase substantially the number of official residences for staff of the Traffic Branch. Over 100 residences were built in his term and that at Lawson is one of them. Residences very roughly reflected the status of the proposed occupant. The example at Lawson (10 Loftus Street) is an example of the largest type that was used in the period 1890–1914. It contained three bedrooms. The asymmetrical plan of the structure predates Eddy's arrival and was first used in 1885.

Adjacent to the Sydney-bound side of the rail corridor is an electrical traction sub-station and electrical depot containing a mixture of buildings originally clad in corrugated Fibro. The substation was built in 1956 in preparation for the complete electrification of the Main Western line from Penrith to Lithgow in 1957. This was the major extension of the metropolitan electrified system after World War II and the first designed to handle the electric haulage of rail freight trains, predominantly coal trains, as well as long-distance electric passenger train services.

The substation was the last of the large brick substations built for the rail electrified system and the largest on the Main Western line past Penrith. Modern solid state rectifier technology has now largely superseded the need for this type of substation building. It is associated and adjacent to the large Lawson electric line works maintenance depot that still operates with administration offices. The substation was designed by New South Wales Government Railways and built in 1956. It suffered some fire damage in 2003.

Platforms and services
Lawson has one island platform with two sides. It is serviced by NSW TrainLink Blue Mountains Line services travelling from Sydney Central to Lithgow.

Description 
The complex comprises a type 11 brick station building, initial island side building, erected in 1902, incorporating a fibrocement clad signal box, completed in 1921; and a brick out shed, completed in 1902. Other structures included a brick-faced island platform, completed in 1902; a remnant timber paling facing side platform, completed in , and a pedestrian subway, completed in 1944. Other structures include the Station Master's Residence at 10 Loftus Street, type 11, brick, tile roof, erected in 1896; and electrical depot site with the former District Engineer's Office – brick (1956) and the workshops – brick base, corrugated iron walls (1957); as well as the signals and earthworks depot (1956-7); and a face brick substation (1956).

Station building (1902) and Signal Box (1921)
External: Constructed of face brick with corrugated metal gabled roof extending as an awning to both platforms, Lawson station building is a single storey early phase "type 11" island platform building in standard Federation style design. It is an 8-bay long building featuring 7 bays to the original face brick section and 1 long bay to the signal box extension and has a linear arrangement along the platform with tuckpointed red brickwork and engaged piers between the bays. The extended bay at the southwest end has painted fibrocement wall panels on rendered brick base with 6-pane horizontal sliding windows and a timber door with decorative fanlight. Other features include rendered splay course to plinth, moulded cornice, two horizontal moulded rendered string courses at corbel height, timber framed double-hung windows with multi-paned coloured glass upper sashes, timber framed and panelled doors with multi-paned coloured glass fanlights, contrasting decorative trims and sills around windows and doors, standard iron brackets over decorative corbels supporting ample platform awnings, fretted timber work at the end of awnings and gable ends, timber cross finial to gable end, two tall face brick corbelled chimneys with rendered tops. A modern corrugated metal gable roof with flat awning has been extended off the southwest end of the station building to provide shelter over the subway entrance and extended platform shelter area for commuters. It is supported by steel beams and posts. Another gabled roof with corrugated clear sheeting and corrugated metal awnings on both sides extends above the men's toilets entry. All windows and doors are fitted with metal security grills and gates.

Internal: In 1994 the building underwent internal fabric alterations, however it maintains its original linear floor layout, which from Up end to Down end incorporates a former signal room, combined Station Master's office and booking office, general waiting room, ladies' waiting room and toilets, and men's toilets. Original features include timber panelled doors with multi-paned coloured glass fanlights in the ladies room and work station areas, moulded architraves to all external and internal doors and the ticket window. Light fittings, fans and floor covering including carpet finish in the offices and tiles in the toilets and the waiting room. Plasterboard ceilings are from the upgrade works. Doors have been clad with fire rated panels from inside. The former signal box within the station building is now used for storage purposes, however its interlocking 16 lever frame and the CTC panel are still extant.

Out-of shed (1902)
External: A small square shaped detached face brick shed featuring moulding and rendered string course detailing similar to the main station building. It is located on the northeast (Up) side of the station building. The shed features a gabled corrugated metal roof with timber bargeboard and narrow eaves with exposed rafters, contrasting rendered moulded trim above the fanlight over a single door on northeast side elevation and two double – hung windows with multi-paned upper sash featuring multi-coloured glass panes similar to the station building on both of the side elevations. There are two rows of string course throughout all elevations. There is no opening on the south-western (Down) elevation of the building.

Internal: Currently used as a storeroom with a timber cupboard and shelving, the out-of shed consists of a concrete floor with painted brick walls, exposed timber roof structure with ceiling joists, rafters and relatively new corrugated metal roofing, and one single modern light fitting.

Island platform (1902)
Lawson Railway Station has an island platform in a curved shape with slightly pointed ends. The platform is brick faced with concrete deck and asphalt finish. Garden beds are located along the length of the platform planted with low to medium height shrubs and plantings. One mature tree is present on the platform at the northeast end. The platform also features period and modern light fittings, timber bench seating, an ea