[Experimental Researches in Electricity — Faraday — Gutenberg #55148]

in my blood, I felt no boyish ridicule for this creature that a blow would make cry, but all the tenderness of a nurse, or a person who holds a live and trembling bird in his hand. "I won't hurt you. I didn't _mean_ to knock you in the pond." "But you did," said Carl, still dubious. "I know, and I'm sorry. See here, Carl, I'll give you my dog." "Your big dog?" asked Carl, for he had seen Marengo bounding about the lawn. "Yes," said I, knowing full well that the promise was about equivalent to the promise of the moon. The little hand fell into mine. "Gretel," said Carl, now in a confidential tone, "told me you would kill me if I played with you, or went near you, or if I looked at you." "Oh, how wicked!" I cried. "_I_ kill you!" And I clasped the little form more tightly. "I know," said Carl. He was a personage of few words, and those two words told me quite plainly that he believed me and had confidence in me. "It's not you," he said, after a pause. "She said you didn't want to do it, but you'd have to do it; for you were a bad man once, and you'd have to do it over again," said Carl. "What you'd done before, for someone had said so. I don't know who they were." He had got the tale so mixed up that I could scarcely follow his meaning. "When will you give me the dog?" he finished, irrelevantly enough. "I'll give you him--I'll give you him to-morrow," I said, "if father will let me. But he's sure to, if I ask him." Scarcely had I finished speaking than the door opened and Gretel appeared. She stood for a moment when she saw us together, as though the sight had turned her into stone. Then she came towards us. "How did you get here?" said she to me. "Through that door," I answered her. She took me by the hand and led me away. As she did so, something closed round my neck, and something touched me on the cheek. It was Carl, who had put his arms round my neck and kissed me. Ah, little Carl, little Carl! Little we knew how next we should meet, or the manner of that meeting! CHAPTER X THE DEATH OF VOGEL "Joubert, what is father doing?" "He is playing cards down below with the gentlemen." I was undressing to go to bed that same night, and Joubert was expediting my movements, anxious, most likely, to go downstairs and drink with the house-steward. "Joubert, I wish he were here." "Why?" "I don't know; but I am frightened." "Of what?" "I don't know." Joubert blew out the light and left the room, and I lay looking at the shadows the furniture made on the wall by the dim glimmer of the nightlight. The door leading to my father's room was open. This did not give me any comfort--rather the reverse; for the next room was in darkness, and I could not help imagining faces peeping at me from the darkness. When frightened at night like this, I generally told myself fairy tales to keep away the terrors. I tried this to-night with a bad result, for the attempt instantly brought up Vogel and the old woman who lived in the wood. Now, there was something in this fairy tale that my heart knew to be evil and malign. What this something was I could not tell, but it was there, and the story did not bring me any peace. The clock in the turret struck ten, and I saw vividly the Man in Armour up there alone in the dark, wheeling to his work. There was something terrific in this iron man. A live tiger was a thing to me less fearful. Not for worlds would I have gone up alone to watch him at his work, even at a safe distance. The fact that the hammer had nearly killed me did not contribute much to this fear. I knew that was not his fault. I was terrified by Him. Then I fell thinking of my promise to little Carl to give him Marengo, and, thinking of this, I fell asleep. At least, I closed my eyes and entered a world of vague shapes. And then I entered a wood. The cottage of the old woman who made the whistles was before me. It had a window on either side of the door, and in one window there were jars of sugar-sticks. I knocked at the door. It flew open, and there stood Vogel, the jäger with the hooked nose. He smilingly beckoned me in. I entered, and, hey presto! his smile vanished with the closing of the door, and I was on a bed, and he was smothering me with a pillow. And then I awoke, and I was in bed and I was being smothered by a pillow. Oh, horror! Oh, the horror of that waking! Someone was lying upon me; a pillow was over my face, crushing it! I shrieked, and my shriek did not go an inch beyond my mouth. My nose was crushed flat; my mouth, opening to scream, could not close again. The pillow bulged in, and then, flung away like a feather by the wind, went the form that was crushing me and the pillow that was smothering me; and shriek upon shriek--the most horrid, the most unearthly, the most soul-sickening--shriek after shriek tore the air; and, jumping upon my feet, standing on the bed with arms outspread, I gazed on the sight before me, adding my thin voice to the outcries that were piercing the schloss from cellar to turret. On the floor, lit for my view by the halfpenny nightlight calmly burning in its little dish, Marengo and a man were at war--and the victory was with Marengo. The great dog had got the man by the back of the neck. The man, face down, was drumming on the floor with his fists and feet, just as you see an angry child in a fit of passion. The dog was dumb, and making mighty efforts to turn the man on his face. He lifted him, he shifted him, he dragged him hither and thither. The man, screaming, knew what the dog wanted, and clung to the floor. Suddenly the dog sprang away, and, like a flash of lightning, sprang back. He had got the throat-hold, and a deep gobbling, worrying sound was the end of the man and his hunting for ever. For the man was Vogel. I saw that, and then I saw nothing more. CHAPTER XI THE DUEL IN THE WOOD When I regained consciousness I was in my father's room, lying on the bed. Joubert was sitting on the bed beside me. "Joubert," said I, "where is he?" "Who?" "Vogel." "God knows!" said Joubert. "Here, drink this." It was brandy, and it nearly took my breath away, but it gave me life. "Now," said Joubert, putting the glass on the table by the bed and taking my small trousers in his hand, "put these on." "Why am I to dress, Joubert?" "We are going away. Ah, fine doings there have been! And who knows the end of it all?" As he helped me to dress, he told me of what had occurred. The gentlemen below had been playing cards when the shrieks of Vogel had sundered the cardplayers like the sword of death. Rushing upstairs, they had found Marengo guarding the dead body of Vogel, and me standing on the bed screaming. When my father caught me in his arms, I told all. Of Vogel's attempt to smother me, of the knife I had found in my pillow, and of the occurrence in the bell-tower. It must have been my subconscious intelligence speaking, for I remember nothing of it; but it was enough. "Then," said Joubert, "the General, with you tucked under his left arm, turned on the Baron. 'What is this?' said he. 'Assassination in the Schloss Lichtenberg!'" "'Liar!' cried the Baron. And before the word was well from his mouth, crack! the General had hit him open-fisted in the face, and the mark sprang up as if the General had hit him red-handed. Mordieu! I never saw a neater blow given, or one so taken, for the Baron never blinked. He just nodded his head, as if to say, 'Yes.' Then he put his arm in Count Hahn's, and the General turned to Major von der Goltz, and, taking him by the arm, followed the others. Then word came to pack up and have you ready, for we are leaving the schloss this night. Now then, vite!" "But, Joubert, I remember nothing of all that." "All what?" "Telling my father of Vogel and the bell." "Well, whether you remember it or not, there it is." "And the knife---- Joubert, did you not, you yourself, stick the knife in the pillow?" "I!" said Joubert. "When would you catch me playing such fool's tricks as that?" "Joubert." "Yes?" "I think I know why they wanted to kill me." "Why?" "Because they thought I would kill little Carl." Joubert grunted. "Here," said he, "hold up your foot till I lace that boot." Scarcely had he done so before General Hahn appeared at the door. "Dress the child, pack, and be ready to leave the schloss at once!" he cried to Joubert. "The horses are being got ready." "I have my orders," replied Joubert. He grumbled and talked to himself, and swore, as he got the rest of my clothes on, for I was quite unable to help myself. And then, when I was ready, he gave me a great, smacking kiss that nearly took my breath away, and his hand was shaky, and I had never seen it shake before, and he had never kissed me before in his life. Then he left me sitting on the bed, and I heard him in the next room, where the dead man was, packing my things. In the midst of all this, the castle clock struck eleven. And now from below came the trampling of horses, and the crash of wheels on gravel, and the harsh German voices of the servants. Doors banged, and a man came up, flung our door open, and cried: "Ready!" And Joubert, with a portmanteau on his shoulder, led me along by the hand down the corridor, the servant following with the rest of our luggage. Down in the hall, which was brilliantly lit, Major von der Goltz and my father stood talking together in one corner, and Von Lichtenberg and General Hahn stood by the great fireplace, their