Chemistry Research Paper

Title: Green synthesis and characterization of copper and nickel hybrid nanomaterials: Investigation of their biological and photocatalytic potential for the removal of organic crystal violet dye

Abstract:
Nanotechnology deals with the materials at nanoscale to synthesize nanoparticles. The current study introduced a new green approach for the synthesis of Copper and Nickel hybrid nanoparticles by using Zingiber officinale rhizome extract as a capping and reducing agent. The nanoparticles were physico-chemically characterized by UV–visible spectroscopy, Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy, X-ray powder diffraction, Energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy, and Scanning electron microscopy. It was revealed by scanning electron micrograph that the Cu-Ni hybrid nanoparticles have spherical geometries with average grain size of 25.12 ± 1.2 nm. Furthermore, biocatalytic and photocatalytic applications of the biosynthesized nanoparticles were assessed. The results of antibacterial assay revealed that Cu-Ni hybrid nanoparticles had an inhibition zones of 28 ± 1.0, 25 ± 0.8, and 25 ± 1.5 mm against P. aeruginosa, E. coli and Proteus vulgaris. Commercially available antibiotics were purchased and coated with Cu-Ni hybrid nanoparticles, it was found that their antimicrobial efficacy was increased twice. To evaluate the antioxidant potential, nanoparticles having a concentration of 200 µg/mL were applied against 2,2-diphenyl-1-picrylhydrazyl free radicals and NPs showed 42.1 ± 0.71 % inhibition. Cu-Ni nanoparticles have shown a dose-dependent cytotoxicity against amastigote and promastigote in anti-leishmanial assay. The synthesized nanoparticles were found biocompatible and safe in nature to be used in vivo, as they showed no significant hemolysis of human red blood cells at their highest concentration. In antidiabetic assay, NPs inhibited alpha-amylase enzyme up to 38.07 ± 0.65 %. An organic crystal violet dye was successfully degraded by the synthesized nanoparticles in photocatalytic assay. Hence, it is concluded that Cu-Ni hybrid nanoparticles can be used both in vitro and in vivo for drug delivery in biomedical research. These nanoparticles can also be used in the remediation of organic dyes as a catalyst.