[Organic Chemistry for Advanced Students — Gutenberg #38709]

contain a series of Phoenician and Egyptian chronology, from the first man to the first Olympiad, agreeable to the Scripture accounts" (London, 1720). The preface contains an account of the life, character and writings of the author, which was likewise published in a separate form, and exhibits a pleasing picture of his happy old age. A German translation appeared under the title of _Cumberlands phönizische Historie des Sanchoniathons, übersetzt von Joh. Phil. Cassel_ (Magdeburg, 1755). The sequel to the work was likewise published by Payne--_Origines gentium antiquissimae; or Attempts for discovering the Times of the First Planting of Nations: in several Tracts_ (London, 1724). CUMBERLAND, RICHARD (1732-1811), English dramatist, was born in the master's lodge of Trinity College, Cambridge, on the 19th of February 1732. He was the great-grandson of the bishop of Peterborough; and his father, Dr Denison Cumberland, became successively bishop of Clonfert and of Kilmore. His mother was Joanna, the youngest daughter of the great scholar Richard Bentley, and the heroine of John Byrom's once popular little eclogue, _Colin and Phoebe_. Of the great master of Trinity his grandson has left a kindly account; he afterwards collected all the pamphlets bearing on the _Letters of Phalaris_ controversy, and piously defended the reputation of his ancestor in his _Letter_ to Bishop Lowth, who had called Bentley "aut caprimulgus aut fossor." Cumberland was in his seventh year sent to the grammar-school at Bury St Edmunds, and he relates how, on the head-master Arthur Kinsman undertaking, in conversation with Bentley, to make the grandson as good a scholar as the grandfather himself, the latter retorted: "Pshaw, Arthur, how can that be, when I have forgot more than thou ever knewest?" Bentley died during his grandson's Bury schooldays; and in 1744 the boy, who, while rising to the head of his school, had already begun to "try his strength in several slight attempts towards the drama," was removed to Westminster, then at the height of its reputation under Dr Nicholls. Among his schoolfellows here were Warren Hastings, George Colman (the elder), Lloyd, and (though he does not mention them as such) Churchill and Cowper. From Westminster Cumberland passed, in his fourteenth year, to Trinity College, Cambridge, where in 1750 he took his degree as tenth wrangler. His account of his degree examination, as well as that for a fellowship at his college, part of which he underwent in the "judges' chamber," where he was born, is curious; he was by virtue of an alteration in the statutes elected to his fellowship in the second year of his degree. Meanwhile his projects of work as a classical scholar had been interspersed with attempts at imitating Spenser--whom, by his mother's advice, he "laid upon the shelf"--and a dramatic effort (unprinted) on the model of Mason's _Elfrida_, called _Caractacus_. He had just begun to read for his fellowship, when he was offered the post of private secretary by the earl of Halifax, first lord of trade and plantations in the duke of Newcastle's ministry. His family persuaded him to accept the office, to which he returned after his election as fellow. It left him abundant leisure for literary pursuits, which included the design of a poem in blank verse on India. He resigned his Trinity fellowship on his marriage--in 1759--to his cousin Elizabeth Ridge, to whom he had paid his addresses on receiving through Lord Halifax "a small establishment as crown-agent for Nova Scotia." In 1761 he accompanied his patron (who had been appointed lord-lieutenant) to Ireland as Ulster secretary; and in acknowledgment of his services was afterwards offered a baronetcy. By declining this he thinks he gave offence; at all events, when in 1762 Halifax became secretary of state, Cumberland in vain applied for the post of under-secretary, and could only obtain the clerkship of reports at the Board of Trade under Lord Hillsborough. While he takes some credit to himself for his incorruptibility when in Ireland, he showed zeal for his friend and secured a bishopric for his father. On the accession to office of Lord George Germaine (Sackville) in 1775, Cumberland was appointed secretary to the Board of Trade and Plantations, which post he held till the abolition of that board in 1782 by Burke's economical reform. Before this event he had, in 1780, been sent on a confidential mission to Spain, to negotiate a separate treaty of peace with that power; but though he was well received by King Charles III. and his minister Floridablanca, the question of Gibraltar proved a stumbling-block, and the Gordon riots at home a most untoward occurrence. He was recalled in 1781, and was refused repayment of the expenses he had incurred, towards which only £1000 had been advanced to him. He thus found himself £4500 out of pocket: in vain, he says, "I wearied the door of Lord North till his very servants drove me from it"; his memorial remained unread or unnoticed either by the prime minister or by secretary Robinson, through whom the original promise had been made. Soon after this experience he lost his office, and had to retire on a compensation allowance of less than half-pay. He now took up his residence at Tunbridge Wells; but during his last years he mostly lived in London, where he died on the 7th of May 1811. He was buried in Westminster Abbey, a short oration being pronounced on this occasion by his friend Dean Vincent. Cumberland's numerous literary productions are spread over the whole of his long life; but it is only by his contributions to the drama, and perhaps by his _Memoirs_, that he is likely to be remembered. The collection of essays and other pieces entitled _The Observer_ (1785), afterwards republished together with a translation of _The Clouds_, found a place among _The British Essayists_. For the accounts given in _The Observer_ of the Greek writers, especially the comic poets, Cumberland availed himself of Bentley's MSS. and annotated books in his possession; his translations from the Greek fragments, which are not inelegant but lack closeness, are republished in James Bailey's _Comicorum Graecorum_ (part i., 1840) and _Hermesianactis, Archilochi, et Pratinae fragmenta_. Cumberland further produced _Anecdotes of Eminent Painters in Spain_ (1782 and 1787); a _Catalogue of the King of Spain's Paintings_ (1787); two novels--_Arundel_ (1789), a story in letters, and _Henry_ (1795), a "diluted comedy" on the construction and polishing of which he seems to have expended great care; a religious epic, _Calvary, or the Death of Christ_ (1792); his last publication was a poem entitled _Retrospection_. He is also supposed to have joined Sir James Bland Burges in an epic, the _Exodiad_ (1807), and in _John de Lancaster_, a novel. Besides these he wrote the _Letter to the Bishop of O[xfor]d_ in vindication of Bentley (1767); another _to the Bishop of Llandaff_ (Richard Watson) on his proposal for equalizing the revenues of the Established Church (1783); a _Character of the late Lord Sackville_ (1785), whom in his _Memoirs_ he vindicates from the stigma of cowardice; and an anonymous pamphlet, _Curtius rescued from the Gulf_, against the redoubtable Dr Parr. He was also the author of a version of fifty of the Psalms of David; of a tract on the evidences of Christianity; and of other religious exercises in prose and verse, the former including "as many sermons as would make a large volume, some of which have been delivered from the pulpits." Lastly, he edited, in 1809, a short-lived critical journal called _The London Review_, intended to be a rival to the _Quarterly_, with signed articles. Cumberland's _Memoirs_, which he began at the close of 1804, and concluded in September 1805, were published in 1806, and a supplement was added in 1807. This narrative, which includes a long account of his Spanish mission, contains some interesting reminiscences of several persons of note--more especially Bubb Dodington, Single-Speech Hamilton, and Lord George Sackville among politicians, and of Garrick, Foote and Goldsmith; but the accuracy of some of the anecdotes concerning the last-named is not beyond suspicion. The book exhibits its author as an amiable egotist, careful of his own reputation, given to prolixity and undistinguished by wit, but a good observer of men and manners. The uneasy self-absorption which Sheridan immortalized in the character of Sir Fretful Plagiary in _The Critic_ is apparent enough in this autobiography, but presents itself there in no offensive form. The incidental criticisms of actors have been justly praised. Cumberland was hardly warranted in the conjecture that no English author had yet equalled his list of dramas in point of number; but his plays, published and unpublished, have been computed to amount to fifty-four. About 35 of these are regular plays, to which have been added 4 operas and a farce; and about half of the whole list are comedies. The best known of them belong to what he was pleased to term "legitimate comedy," and to that species of it known as "sentimental." The essential characteristic of these plays is the combination of plots of domestic interest with the rhetorical enforcement of moral precepts, and with such small comic humour as the author possesses. These comedies are primarily, to borrow Cumberland's own phraseology, designed as "attempts upon the heart." He takes great credit to himself for weaving his plays out of "homely stuff, right British drugget," and for eschewing "the vile refuse of the Gallic stage"; on the other hand, he borrowed from the sentimental fiction of his own country, including Richardson, Fielding and Sterne. The favourite theme of his plays is virtue in distress or danger, but safe of its reward in the fifth act; their most constant characters are men of feeling and young ladies who are either prudes or coquettes. Cumberland's comic power--such as it was--lay in the invention of comic characters taken from the "outskirts of the empire," and professedly intended to vindicate from English prejudice the good elements in the Scotch, the Irish and the colonial character. For the rest, patriotic sentiment liberally asserts itself by the side of general morality. If Cumberland's dialogue lacks brilliance and his characters reality, the construction of the plots is as a rule, skilful, and the situations are contrived with what Cumberland indisputably possessed--a thorough insight into the secrets of theatrical effect. It should be added that, though Cumberland's sentimentality is often wearisome, his morality is generally sound; that if he was without the genius requisite for elevating the national drama, he did his best to keep it pure and sweet; and that if he borrowed much, as he undoubtedly did, it was not the vicious attractions of other dramatists of which he was the plagiary. His début as a dramatic author was made with a tragedy, _The Banishment of Cicero_, published in 1761 after its rejection by Garrick; this was followed in 1765