# Delaware County Community College

Delaware County Community College (DCCC) is a public community college with campuses and facilities throughout Delaware and Chester Counties in Pennsylvania. DCCC was founded in 1967 and is accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. The college offers 53 associate degree programs and 43 certificate programs at nine different locations.

DCCC's athletic teams compete in Division III of the National Junior College Athletic Association (NJCAA) and are members of the Eastern Pennsylvania Athletic Conference. They are collectively known as the Phantoms and have won two men's basketball championships.

In 2021, DCCC was named a Center of Excellence for Domestic Maritime Workforce Training and Education for preparing students for U.S. maritime industry careers.

History

Early years
The origin of DCCC can be traced back to 1963, when Pennsylvania legislature permitted the establishment of state community colleges through the Community College Act of 1963.

In 1964, when the Delaware County Council for Higher Education was formed, Delaware County residents were presented with a survey, the results of which showed they wanted a community college in the area. The council subsequently assigned a task force to identify a permanent location for the college. Simultaneously, Delaware County commissioners were supporting the potential expansion of Pennsylvania State University (PSU) into the area. Despite the debate over which school would have a presence in Delaware County, Pennsylvania's board of education approved the establishment of DCCC in January 1967. (That year, Penn State Brandywine was established in Delaware County as an extension of PSU).

Although DCCC was officially founded on March 1, 1967, it did not yet have its own facility. Under the leadership of DCCC's first president Dr. Douglas F. Libby Jr., classes commenced in September at Ridley Township High School with 307 students enrolled. Once DCCC had an established board of trustees, a committee was appointed to continue searching for a permanent site for the college.

By 1968, additional DCCC classes were temporarily being held at the Fair Acres Delaware County Institution District and the Dante School, a former orphanage in Concordville, Pennsylvania. After delays caused by legal disputes over building a permanent facility in Delaware County, DCCC entered into an agreement of sale with the heirs to the Gideon Stull estate in May 1968. Following the agreement, DCCC submitted an application to the Marple Township Planning Commission and Zoning Board requesting exception from residential zoning. Upon denial of its request, DCCC appealed the board's decision, which led to a Pennsylvania Supreme Court ruling in DCCC's favor in July 1969. That same month, DCCC officially closed on the Gideon Stull estate for approximately $1.25 million.

By 1974, the $18.5 million Academic Building and Learning Support Building were fully constructed. DCCC's Marple Campus was dedicated in November.

Presidents
Following Dr. Libby's retirement, Dr. Richard D. DeCosmo served as DCCC's second president from 1980 until his retirement in 2003. Under his leadership, new skills-based degree and certificate programs were added to those established during Dr. Libby's administration. Additionally, Dr. DeCosmo advocated for improved economic conditions for Delaware County though access to adult basic education, GED preparation and skill training. To accomplish this, he requested reduced Pell Grant eligibility requirements to make higher education accessible to the increased percentage of Delaware County residents living below the poverty level.

Before his 2003 appointment as the third president, Dr. Jerome S. Parker had served as a DCCC staff member since 1977. As president, he pushed for updated facilities and technical training at DCCC to advance the college and continue its mission to improve the local community's economy. Five additional campuses in Delaware and Chester Counties were opened and DCCC built alliances with companies such as Aker Philadelphia Shipyard, Boeing and Sunoco to prepare students for open industry positions. Dr. Parker is credited with playing a major role in the development of DCCC's Advanced Technology Center, which was named after him upon his retirement in 2017 (see Campus section below).

Since 2017, Dr. L. Joy Gates Black has served as the current president of DCCC. She is the first African-American female to serve in this position at the college. In 2019, DCCC and the Archdiocese of Philadelphia signed a $3 million agreement of sale, which will allot space for the construction of a new DCCC campus at Monsignor Bonner & Archbishop Prendergast Catholic High School. The campus is set to tentatively open in spring 2022 and will integrate the Southeast and Upper Darby Centers (see Campus section below). In 2020, Dr. Gates Black was recognized for founding DCCC's first Center for Equity and Social Justice.

Campus
DCCC has eight locations. All except Chester County Hospital offer all of the following: a bookstore, career and counseling center, an Enrollment Central for student assistance services, disability services, student lounges, study areas and a Learning Commons that offers tutoring and technology support to the DCCC community. The degree and certificate programs offered vary by location.

Delaware County Campuses

Marple Campus 
Marple Campus is the main campus of DCCC. It is located in Marple Township, Pennsylvania, with a Media mailing address, and covers . Opened in 1974, it houses DCCC's radio station, baseball and soccer field and basketball and tennis courts. Marple Campus is also the home of DCCC's municipal police academy, which has trained more than 95 percent of all Delaware County and 75 percent of all Chester County police officers for the last 40 years.

The four main buildings on Marple Campus are Founders Hall, the Academic Building, the STEM Center and the Jerome S. Parker Advanced Technology Center.

Founders Hall houses most of DCCC's administrative offices, a cafeteria and the Learning Commons. Also located in Founders Hall are Enrollment Central and the Nazz Mariani Veterans Center for veterans programs.

The Academic Building is the largest main building on Marple Campus. It contains the Student Center for campus life activities, the Career and Counseling Center, art studios, an art gallery, an auditorium for theater and other large events, faculty offices and PA CareerLink®.

The STEM Center and Advanced Technology Center are a part of the $60 million STEM Complex that opened during the 2009–2010 academic year. The STEM Center is a four-story,  building that houses classrooms, a fitness center, aerobics studio, computer lounge and café. It shares 23 science and specialized laboratories with the Advanced Technology Center. The Advanced Technology Center is a  building that houses classrooms and laboratories for DCCC's technical programs.

Southeast Center 
The Southeast Center campus is located in the Folcroft Business Park near Academy Park High School in Sharon Hill, Pennsylvania. It spans . The campus opened in 2004 with 15 general and computer classrooms, a self-service café and dining area and social services.

Upper Darby Center 
The Upper Darby Center campus is located behind the Barclay Square Shopping Center on Garrett Road in Upper Darby, Pennsylvania. The campus opened in 2012 and has six classrooms. It has the capacity to serve up to 1,800 students each year.

Chester County Campuses

Chester County Hospital 
DCCC has partnered with Chester County Hospital since 1998 to offer nursing education to Chester County residents at the hospital. The hospital is located in West Chester, Pennsylvania.

Downingtown Campus 
Downingtown Campus is located on the site of the former Downingtown Industrial and Agricultural School on Route 322 in Downingtown, Pennsylvania. Opened in 2002, the $12.5 million facility has  of space, laboratories and nine general classrooms. In 2018, the  STEM Wing opened and offers eight additional classrooms for DCCC's STEM programs.

Pennocks Bridge Campus 
Pennocks Bridge Campus is located in West Grove, Pennsylvania. It was opened in 2008 and shares  of space with the Chester County Intermediate Unit's (CCIU) Technical College High School West Grove. The building contains general classrooms, laboratories and workshops for students.

Brandywine Center 
The Brandywine Center campus is located on Boot Road in Downingtown, Pennsylvania. Opened in fall 2012, the  building sits on . The campus partners with the CCIU to offer career and technical education programs as well as college credit courses to students of Technical College High School Brandywine.

Phoenixville Campus 
Phoenixville Campus is located on Charlestown Road in Phoenixville, Pennsylvania. It was opened in 2013 and shares space with CCIU's Technical College High School Pickering.

Administration and organization
DCCC operates under five academ