# Irvington High School (Fremont, California)

Irvington High School is an American public secondary school located in the Irvington district of Fremont, California, United States. It is one of the five public high schools in the Fremont Unified School District. Since 2012, Irvington has received full accreditation from the Western Association of Schools and Colleges.

Campus
The  campus is located in the Irvington district. Opened in 1961, it underwent major construction in 1968, resulting in the addition of a 150-seat theater, a second gymnasium, and ten and a half classrooms. Irvington underwent further campus beautification in 2009, with the installation of the prototypical solar panel on the southwest corner and re-sodding of the varsity and JV baseball fields. In the summer of 2010, further improvements were made to the main parking lot on the east side of campus. A two-story building was added in 2016 for math and science classes.

Academics
Irvington is a National Blue Ribbon School and California Distinguished School. In April 2017 U.S. News & World Report ranked Irvington as 78th in California, 468th in the United States, and 66th in the United States for STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics). 63% of Irvington students take at least one Advanced Placement (AP) exam, and 88% score a passing score of 3 or above. In 2013, Irvington's API score was 884. Its API score for 2012 was 874. Its API score for 2011 was 869.

Awards
California Distinguished School
National Blue Ribbon School
New American High School
America's Greenest School
Ladies' Home Journal Ten Most Amazing Schools in the United States
Civic Learning Award of Excellence

Benchmarks
Students must complete special benchmark projects at Irvington. Currently, IHS has three benchmarks, one at the 9th grade level called Change Project, one at the 10th grade level called World Issues Project, and one at the 12th grade level called QUEST. Benchmarks are long-term projects that allow students to demonstrate progress toward or mastery of the four School-Wide Outcomes: Communication, Critical Thinking, Personal Responsibility, and Social Responsibility. Benchmarks are intended to be consistently evaluated, "authentic," real life assessment projects which provide students, parents, and teachers information about student achievement across a range of important lifelong learning skills.

CHANGE Project
Freshmen complete a "Change" project in which they become introduced to the Irvington culture by working in teams of three to four to make a positive change regarding an environmental problem that they identify in the local community. They have approximately six months to complete the service project, volunteer at a local organization, write three drafts of a research report, and create a Powerpoint presentation to present near the end of the school year to their peers and teachers.

World Issues Project
Formerly known as "UN", World Issues adds a service component to Irvington education. Changes have been made to the process and objective of the project. Now, students are put into groups of four and are assigned a global issue. After covering a background of the issue in a group, students complete the rest of the project individually. The first half of the year is devoted to understanding and describing the issue, and the second half is spent proposing ways to fix the problem. Each student must research their assigned issue, write two papers on their topic,  and participate in two discussions on their assigned topic. These topics include lack of access to clean water, refugee crisis, terrorism, child labor, climate change, infectious diseases, and inequality for women.

QUEST Project
QUEST is a five-component project designed and must be completed by all Irvington seniors in order to graduate. If all the components are not completed, the student will not graduate. QUEST benchmark was established in 1996. The student starts with a "Question," associated with "providing benefits to the community." Through "Understanding," an answer to the Question starts to develop through research, reading, writing, and hands-on activities. Students must then find a professional to act as their consultant and guide them through their experience and service hours. The student and his or her consultant then create an "Experience" plan related to the Question, which may include a variety of jobs that the student-chosen jobs that relate to the Question. Through "Service," the student designs and implements an activity which will allow the student to share his or her new knowledge with the greater community in a way that serves a real need in the community. They must write a paper consisting of all their findings throughout the year presenting their social contemporary issue with background information, research, and hands on experience on their QUEST topic. Finally, at the "Testimony," the student will present his or her entire QUEST experience to a panel consisting of staff, parents and experienced community members.

Demographics

According to U.S. News & World Report, 84% of Irvington's student body is "of color," with 13% of the student body coming from economically disadvantaged households, determined by student eligibility for California's reduced-price meal program. 5.23% of Irvington's students are English Language Learners.

Attendance area
The attendance area includes the Fremont districts of Irvington, Warm Springs, and part of Mission San Jose. Along with Irvington High School, the attendance area also includes six elementary schools — Grimmer, Harvey Green, Hirsch, James Leitch, Warm Springs, and Weibel, as well as Horner Middle School.  Students choosing to enter the high school who live outside the district lines may apply for a lottery or a transfer into the Irvington Arts Magnet Program. Applying for the Center For The Creative Arts Program (CCA) is an art-oriented method of getting in the school if a student does not live within the boundaries. CCA has modified English, social studies, and science classes that are grouped together in a family that includes more artistic guidelines. In the early 2000's this boundary used to be Grimmer, Harvey Green, Hirsch, James Leitch, Forest Park, Warm Springs, and Millard. Weibel was later added to the attendance area to improve school performance and academics.

Extracurricular

Athletics

The Vikings Baseball Program had back to back NCS appearances in 2016 and 2017, after not having any playoff appearances in the prior 5 seasons.
They also had 10 players move on to play college baseball during the last 5 seasons and continue to have a remarkable GPA as a team.
In addition, Mark Mathias, a 2012 graduate, is currently in the Milwaukee Brewers organization and had a great chance to break camp with the team prior to the COVID 19 shut down.
 Irvington's varsity baseball program has been strong over the last twenty-four years, placing first in league in 2008 and winning an MVAL title in 2009. In recent years, the JV baseball program has won two league titles and placed second twice.
Irvington's badminton team has placed second and third in the MVAL between 2005-2010. It placed second at the 2006 NCS tournament. That same year, the badminton team won second place in the MVALs.
Irvington's cross country team often places high at MVALs. During the 2005-2006 season, the boys' varsity team placed second at the MVAL championships, and during the 2006-2007 season, the girls' varsity team placed second at the MVAL championships. Varsity and JV girls were 07-08 and 08-09 MVAL Champions, and varsity girls placed fourth at NCS. However, in recent years (2009 and 2010), the varsity team has been lacking, with a fifth place (out of seven) finish at the 2010 MVAL finals.
Irvington's varsity football team took first place in the MVALs in 2005, beating out top competitor Logan High School in Union City, and moving on to the NCS finals. They took second place in 2006 MVALs and moved on to the NCS semi-finals. Robert Turbin (RB), who played during this period, was selected in the NFL Draft by the Seattle Seahawks.
Irvington's volleyball team made it to NCS in the 2008-2009 season, eventually losing to Mission San Jose High School. The team also qualified for NCS in the 2009-2010 season, but lost to Liberty in the first round. In the 2010-2011 season, the team took first in the MVAL, and made it past the first round of NCS, beating San Leandro, but lost to California High School in the second round.
Irvington's 2018 boys' water polo team tied for first place in the MVAL and made it into the NCS tournament. Two players were named First Team All-League and one player was named the MVAL League MVP.
Irvington's varsity tennis team placed second in MVALs for four years in a row. The tennis team has made it to NCS twice.
Irvington's 2009 gymnastics team was undefeated during the regular season, becoming the season champions. At MVALs, Irvington placed first overall, with an Irvington gymnast takin