[Experimental Researches in Electricity — Faraday — Gutenberg #55148]

still, with her eyes bandaged, when the sound died away. "What an escape!" cried Gretel, who was white and shaking. "Little boy, had I not plucked you away, the hammer would have killed you! It would have killed you had it not been for me!" But in my heart I knew better than that. * * * * * That night I told Joubert of the thing. He said Gretel was a fool. "Joubert," I said, "I am afraid of this house, and I am afraid of Gretel; and I want to say my prayers again, please, for I was not thinking when I said them just now." I said them again; and Heaven knows I needed them more than any prince trapped in the ogre's castle of a fairy tale. CHAPTER VIII THE HUNTING-SONG Scarcely had Joubert left me than a faint sound, stealing from below, made me sit up in bed. The sound of violins tuning up. Ever since I could perceive the difference between musical sounds, music has fascinated me, thrilled me, filled me with hauntings. Music can make me drunk, music can make me everything but bad; but it is not in the province of music to do that. A band of wandering musicians had come to the schloss, and were preparing to entertain the guests in the great hall. Our rooms were quite close to the gallery surrounding the hall. I could hear the complaint of the violin-strings protesting their readiness, and the deep, gasping grunts of the 'cello saying as plainly as a 'cello could speak, "Begin." Then the music struck up. A gay, dashing tune, vivid as a spring landscape with the daffodils dancing in the wind; the high tremulous notes of a piccolo hovering over the music of the strings as a skylark hovers in the air. It was more than mortal child could stand, to hear all that and not to be there. I hopped out of bed, and made for the door. I had opened it, when the thought came to me that Joubert might come back to the room, as he sometimes did, to see if I were asleep; so I ran to the bed and propped the pillow under the bedclothes. I often slept with the clothes over my head, and the room was so dark that the protuberance of the pillow gave quite a striking representation of a small boy curled up in slumber. Then I came down the passage to the gallery overlooking the hall. Down below the place was brilliantly lit. The musicians--four men in long coats, with long hair, and two of them bearded--were opposite to me. Seated about were the guests: my father, the Countess Feliciani, Count Feliciani, Major von der Goltz, General Hahn, and another gentleman whose name I did not know. Baron von Lichtenberg was not there. A servant was handing coffee, and the guests were chatting in two little groups, and seemed quite oblivious of the music that was ravishing my simple heart. The spring song ceased, the daffodils danced no longer in the wind, the skylark dropped from the sky, and the musicians fell chatting one to the other in an undertone whilst they tuned up again. The one most directly facing me--a man quite young, with oh, such a good, kind, sweet face!--glanced up as he was raising his violin and caught sight of me in my little nightshirt away up in the gallery peeping down at him and his brethren. He evidently knew at once that I was one of the children of the schloss, a truant from bed, and that my portion would be smacks if I were discovered; for, though a momentary smile lit his face, he made no sign or attempt to point me out to his fellows. They broke into a hunting tune. I could tell, from the lilt of the music, it was the chase that was speaking in the inarticulate language of the strings. The piccolo had discarded his instrument for a horn; I could hear the yapping of the dogs, and the pack bursting into full cry; the horn, and the echoes of the horn from the rocks and woods, the halalli. Gay, ghostly, beautiful, the music swept me along with it, the very guests below forgot their chatter; I could see them keeping time with their feet. Enchantment had seized upon the old schloss, the green-coated jägers crowded, as if by permission, to the passage entrance, and their harsh voices took up the song which now broke from the lips of the magicians in the long coats to the accompaniment of the violins and the hunting-horn, a song the words of which were not translated for me till long, long afterwards: Hound and horn give voice and tongue, Fill the woods with echoes gay; Let your music sweet be flung To the Brocken far away. Jägers with the horns ye wind, Hounds whose tongues the chase shall bay; Let your voice the echoes find Of the Brocken old and grey. Hark! amidst the bracken green Bells the buck whose vigil keeps Danger from the hind unseen, Danger from the fawn that sleeps. Hears he us, yet heeds us not, Dreams he that we are the wind; Phantoms we of hounds forgot, Ghosts of huntmen long since blind. Dreams we are the forest's breath Waking to the touch of day; Recks not 'tis the horn of Death Dying in the distance grey. Hound and horn give voice and tongue---- And through it all the horn, now clear and ringing, now caught and dying in the echoes of the forest, now lost in the echoes of the Brocken, the wild notes flying before the phantom of the flying stag; ever the horn threading the gushing music of the violins, the voices of the musicians, and the chorus of the jägers. More music came after this, but nothing so beautiful; and as the musicians put their instruments away, and prepared to go, I nodded to the happy-faced one who had spied me. He smiled, and I trotted back to bed. I had been there listening in the gallery for a full hour, and I was cold as ice, but no one had seen me, or only the violin-player who had the face of a good angel. I shut the door cautiously, and crept back to bed. But there was something on the bed, something on the protuberance caused by my pillow. It was the handle of a knife. The blade of the knife was plunged into the mound of the bedclothes just where my head would have been. It was Joubert's knife--his "couteau de chasse," a thing he was immensely proud of, a thing as keen as a razor. That was just like one of Joubert's tricks. He had come in, found my device, and left this, as much as to say, "You'll see what you'll get in the morning." I plucked the knife out and put it on the floor. Then I crawled into bed. As I lay thinking of the music, my restless fingers kept digging into holes in the sheet. Half a dozen holes, or rather slits, there were. One might have thought that the hunting-knife of Joubert had been furiously plunged again and again into the heap of bedclothes before being left sticking there. But I did not think of this: the knife was Joubert's. Besides, my head was alive with those dreams that stand at the door of sleep to welcome the innocent in. The forms of the weather-beaten musicians, sent like good angels from God to charm me and hold me with their music; the happy, innocent, and friendly face of the one who had smiled at me, and the hunting-song: Hark! amidst the bracken green Bells the buck whose vigil keeps Danger from the hind unseen, Danger from the fawn that sleeps. Then I, like a fawn, fell asleep, ignorant of Fate as the fawn, and of the extreme wickedness of the heart of man. CHAPTER IX THE FAIRY TALE "Levez-vous! Levez-vous! Levez-vous! Ta-ra-ra! Pom, pom! Hi! God's teeth, my knife! What does it here?" Joubert could sound the réveille with his mouth almost as well as a trumpeter, and he was grand at imitating the big drum. Up I shot in bed, rubbing my eyes. "Your what?" "My knife. Ha! I've caught you. Cutting your sticks and carving your name with my couteau de chasse! You have been to my bedroom. Don't answer me! You have been to my bedroom, and taken it from the pocket of my coat. A pretty thing!" Joubert's temper all yesterday had been savage; his infernal amours were not prospering, it seems. In fact, as I afterwards learned from his own lips, a scullion, resenting his addresses, had called him an old French dog without teeth. "It was sticking in my pillow when I came to bed!" cried I, indignant at the accusation. "Your pillow, when you came to bed!" Joubert seized me, ran me across the room by my shoulders to a large mirror, pointed to the reflection of my shrinking form, and yelled: "Do you see that?" "Mais, oui." "Then you see a liar." "But, Joubert----" "Not a word!" "But I want to _tell_ you----" "Not a word!" That was always Joubert's way--"Not a word." "But I want to _tell_ you!" "Not a word!" And he jabbed the sponge in my mouth, for I was standing by this time in the bath. I never could tell whether Joubert was joking or in earnest, so I said no more; but it was none the less irritating to be called a liar by Joubert, whose lies about battle, murder, and sudden death were palpable, and sometimes cynically self-confessed. Little Carl did not appear at breakfast, and Eloise was very despondent, not about Carl, but about going away. She would not touch jam, and she made use sometimes, in a secretive manner, of a handkerchief, small enough, goodness knows, yet chiefly composed of lace. "It is not the going away," said Eloise; "it is the parting from friends that makes going away so sad." She was a terribly sentimental child by fits and starts, falling into sentiment and falling out of it again with the facility of a newly dislocated limb from its socket. Next moment I was chasing her down the corridor, both of us making the corridor echoes ring with our laughter. At the end, just by the glass door leading to the garden, down she plumped in a corner and put her little pinafore over her head. I believe she wanted, or expected, me to pull the pinafore away and kiss her, but I didn't. I just pulled her up by the arm, and we both bundled