[Organic Chemistry for Advanced Students — Gutenberg #38709]

the civil administration and created several small garrisoned posts. The district is accordingly safer for Europeans than it was; but these still find themselves ill received. The Ottoman officials discourage travel in the interior, partly from fear of the Senussites, partly from suspicions, excited by the lively interest manifested by Italy in Cyrenaica. At the present day we understand by Cyrenaica a somewhat larger district than of old, and include ancient Marmarica up to the head of the gulf of Sollum (Catabathmus Magnus). The whole area is about 30,000 sq. m., and has some 250,000 inhabitants, inclusive of nomads. Projecting like a bastion into the Mediterranean at a very central point, Cyrenaica seems intended to play a commercial part; but it does not do so to any extent because of (1) lack of natural harbours, Bengazi and Derna having only open and dangerous roads (this is partly due to coastal subsidence; ancient ports have sunk); (2) the difficulty of the desert routes behind it, wells being singularly deficient in this part of the Sahara. The ivory and feather caravans from Wadai and Borku have latterly deserted it altogether. Consequently Cyrenaica is still in a very backward and barbarous state and largely given up to nomad Arabs. There are only two towns, Bengazi and Derna, and not half a dozen settlements beside, worthy to be called villages. In many districts the Senussi convents supply the only settled element, and the local Bedouins largely belong to the Order. There are no roads in the province, and very little internal communication and trade; but a wireless telegraphic system has been installed in communication with Rhodes: and there is a landline from Bengazi to Tripoli. Geologically and structurally Cyrenaica is a mass of Miocene limestone tilted up steeply from the Mediterranean and falling inland by a gentle descent to sea-level again at the line of depression, which runs from the gulf of Sidra through Aujila to Siwa. This mass is divided into two blocks, the higher being the western Jebel Akhdar, on which Cyrene was built (about 1800 ft.): the lower, the eastern Jebel el-Akabah, the ancient Marmaric highlands (700 ft.). There is no continuous littoral plain, the longest strip running from the recess of the Syrtis round past Bengazi to Tolmeita. Thereafter, except for deltaic patches at Marsa Susa and Derna, the shore is all precipitous. Jebel Akhdar, being without "faults," has no deep internal valleys, and presents the appearance of downs: but its seaward face is very deeply eroded, and deep circular sinkings (swallow-holes) are common. There is much forest on its northward slopes, and good red earth on the higher parts, which bears abundant crops of barley, much desired by European maltsters. Plenty of springs issue on the highlands, and wide expanses of grassy country dotted with trees like an English park are met with. Here the Bedouins (mostly Beni Hassa) pasture flocks and herds, amounting to several million head. The climate is temperate and the rainfall usually adequate, but one year in five is expected to be droughty. The southward slopes fall through ever-thinning pasture lands to sheer desert about 80 m. inland. Jebel el-Akabah is much more barren than Jebel Akhdar, and the desert comes right down to the sea in Marmarica, whose few inhabitants are more concerned with salt-collecting and sponge fishing than with agriculture. They have, however, the only good ports on the whole coast, Bomba and Tobruk. Much might be made of Cyrenaica by judicious colonization. All kinds of trees grow well, from the date palm to the oak; and there are over 200,000 wild olives in the country. The conditions in general are very like those of central Italy, and there is ample room for new settlers. BIBLIOGRAPHY.--(1) Ancient Cyrenaica: J. P. Thrige, _Historia Cyrenes_ (1819); C. Ritter, _Erdkunde_, i. (1822); A. F. Gottschick, _Gesch. der Grundung und Blute des hell. Staates in Kyrenaika_ (1858). (2) Modern Cyrenaica: Paul Lucas, _Voyage_ (1712); T. Shaw, _Travels and Observations_ (1738); J. Bruce, _Travels_ (1790); P. della Cella, _Viaggio da Tripoli_, &c. (1819); G. F. Lyon, _Narrative of Travels_ (1821); A. Cervelli, in _Recueil de voyages_, pub. by Soc. de Géog., ii. (1825); J. R. Pacho, _Relation d'un voyage_ (1827); F. W. Beechey, _Proceedings of Expedition to explore N. Coast of Africa_ (1828); H. Barth, _Wanderungen_, &c. (1849); V. de Bourville, _Rapport_ (1850); J. Hamilton, _Wanderings in N. Africa_ (1856); R. M. Smith and E. A. Porcher, _Hist. of Discoveries_ (1864); G. Rohlfs, _Von Tripoli nach Alexandrien_ (1871); G. Haimann, _La Cirenaica_ (1882); M. Camperio, _Una Gita in Cirenaica_ (1881); H. Duveyrier, "La Confr. musulmane de Sidi Moh. Ben Ali es-Senousi" (_Bull. soc. géog._, 1884); H. W. Blundell in _Geog. Journ._ v. (1895) and _Annual Brit. Sch. at Athens_, ii. (1895); D. G. Hogarth in _Monthly Review_ (Jan. 1904); G. Hildebrand, _Cyrenaïka_, &c. (1904); G. de Martino, _Cirene e Cartagine_ (1908). (3) Maps: The best are that by P. Carlo, to illustrate Camperio and Haimann's Report, in Petermann's _Mitth._ (1881); and Sheet No. 2 of _Carte de l'Afrique_ (Service géog. de l'armée, 1892). (D. G. H.) CYRENAICS, a Greek school of philosophy, so called from Cyrene, the birthplace of the founder, Aristippus (q.v.). It was one of the two earliest Socratic schools, and emphasized one side only of the Socratic teaching (cf. CYNICS). Socrates, although he held that virtue was the only human good, admitted to a certain extent the importance of its utilitarian side, making happiness at least a subsidiary end of moral action (see ETHICS). Aristippus and his followers seized upon this, and made it the prime factor in existence, denying to virtue any intrinsic value. Logic and physical science they held to be useless, for all knowledge is immediate sensation (see PROTAGORAS). These sensations are motions ([Greek: kinêseis]) which (1) are purely subjective, and (2) are painful, indifferent or pleasant, according as they are violent, tranquil or gentle. Further they are entirely individual, and can in no way be described as constituting absolute objective knowledge. Feeling, therefore, is the only possible criterion alike of knowledge and of conduct. "Our modes of being affected ([Greek: pathê]) alone are knowable." Thus Cyrenaicism goes beyond the critical scepticism of the Sophists and deduces a single, universal aim for all men, namely pleasure. Furthermore, all feeling is momentary and homogeneous. It follows (1) that past and future pleasure have no real existence for us, and (2) that among present pleasures there is no distinction of kind, but only of intensity. Socrates had spoken of the higher pleasures of the intellect; the Cyrenaics denied the validity of this distinction and said that bodily pleasures as being more simple and more intense are to be preferred. Momentary pleasure ([Greek: monochronos hêdonê]), preferably of a carnal kind, is the only good for man. Yet Aristippus was compelled to admit that some actions which give immediate pleasure entail more than their equivalent of pain. This fact was to him the basis of the conventional distinction of right and wrong, and in this sense he held that regard should be paid to law and custom. It is of the utmost importance that this development of Cyrenaic hedonism should be fully realized. To overlook the Cyrenaic recognition of social obligation and the hedonistic value of altruistic emotion is a very common expedient of those who are opposed to all hedonistic theories of life. Like many of the leading modern utilitarians, they combined with their psychological distrust of popular judgments of right and wrong, and their firm conviction that all such distinctions are based solely on law and convention, the equally unwavering principle that the wise man who would pursue pleasure logically must abstain from that which is usually denominated "wrong" or "unjust." This idea, which occupies a prominent position in systems like those of Bentham, Volney, and even Paley, was evidently of prime importance at all events to the later Cyrenaics. Developing from this is a new point of practical importance to the hedonism of the Cyrenaics. Aristippus, both in theory and in practice, insisted that true pleasure belongs only to him who is self-controlled and master of himself. The truly happy man must have [Greek: phronêsis] (prudence), which alone can save him from falling a prey to mere passion. Thus, in the end, Aristippus, the founder of the purest hedonism in the history of thought, comes very near not only to the Cynics, but to the more cultured hedonism of Epicurus and modern thinkers. Theodorus, held even more strongly that passing pleasure may be a delusion, and that permanent tranquillity is a truer end of conduct. Hegesias denied the possibility of real pleasure and advocated suicide as ensuring at least the absence of pain. Anniceris, in whose thought the school reached its highest perfection, declared that true pleasure consists sometimes in self-sacrifice and that sympathy in enjoyment is a real source of happiness. Other members of the school were Arete, wife of Aristippus, Aristippus the younger (her son), Bio and Euhemerus. The Cyrenaic ideal was, of course, utterly alien to Christianity, and, in general, subsequent thinkers found it an ideal of hopeless pessimism. Yet in modern times it has found expression in many ethical and literary works, and it is common also in other ancient non-Hellenic literature. There are quatrains in the _Rubáiyát_ of Omar Khayyám and pessimistic verses in Ecclesiastes which might have been uttered by Aristippus. ("Then I commended mirth, because a man hath no better thing than to eat and to drink and to be merry; for that shall abide with him of his labour the days of his life which God giveth him under the sun"). So in Byron and Heine, and, in a sense, in Walter Pater (_Marius the Epicurean_), there is the same tendency to seek relief from the intellectual _cul-de-sac_ in frankly aesthetic satisfaction. Thus Cyrenaicism did not entirely vanish with its absorption in Epicureanism. See HEDONISM, EPICURUS; histories of philosophy by Zeller, Windelband, Ueberweg; H. Sidgwick, _Methods of Ethics_ and _Outlines of the History of Ethics_; J. Watson, _Hedonistic Theories_ (1895); James Seth, Ethical Principles, c. i. (A), (1898); A. Wendt, _De philosophia Cyrenaica_ (1841); H. von Stein, _De philosophia Cyrenaica_ (1855); T. Gomperz, _Greek Thinkers_ (Eng. trans., vol. ii. bk. iv., _ad fin._, 1905); Beare, _Greek Theories of Elementary Cognition_; G. van Lyng, _Om den Kyrenaiske skole_ (Christiania, 1868); and general ethical text-books. CYRENE [mod. _Ain Shahat-Grenna_], the original capital of ancient Cyrenaica (q.v.) and one of the greatest of Greek colonies. The Theraean story of its foundation, as told by Herodotus, runs thus. Battus (whose true Greek name seems to have been Aristoteles), a native of Thera (Santorin), itself a Laconian colony, was bidden by the Delphic oracle, if he wished to put an end to domestic dissensions, to lead a portion of the