# Yaudheya

Yaudheya (Brahmi script: 𑀬𑁅𑀥𑁂𑀬) or Yoddheya Gana (Yoddheya Republic) was an ancient militant confederation based in the Eastern region of the Sapta Sindhu. The word Yaudheya is a derivative of the word from yodha meaning warriors and according to Pāṇini, the suffix '-ya', was significant of warrior tribes, which is supported by their resistance to invading empires such as the Kushan Empire and the Indo-Scythians. Rudradaman I of the Western Satraps notes in his Junagadh rock inscription that the Yaudheyas were 'heroes among all Kshatriya' and 'were loath to surrender'. They were noted as having a republic form of government, unique from other Janapadas which instead maintained monarchies.

Geography 
According to Anant Sadashiv Altekar, numismatic evidence indicates that the territorial dominion of the Yaudheyas extended from Bahawalpur in the South-West to Ludhiana in the North-West, encompassing Delhi in the South-East and Saharanpur in the East. However, his research suggests that the Yaudheyas comprised not just one unified entity, but rather three separate republics. In addition to the aforementioned region, another republic was situated in Northern Rajasthan while a further one existed in Northern Pañcāla. He describes the capital as being situated in modern-day Rohtak.

The Bijayagarh pillar inscription of the Yaudheyas, discovered in the Bharatpur district, also serves as further evidence that reinforces the Yaudheyas establishing and maintaining territory within Northern Rajasthan. According to Alexander Cunningham the Yaudheyas likely had a significant presence in southern Rajasthan during the Western Satraps invasion, suggesting that contact between the two would not have been possible otherwise.

History

Vedic era 

The Yaudheyas emerged as an entity following the decline of the Kuru Kingdom (c. 1200 BCE–c. 525 BCE). The Yaudheyas would eventually encompass the land formerly belonging to the Kurus, including their former capitals Indraprastha, Hastinapur, and Āsandīvat. The Kuru Kingdom which was the prominent power in the Vedic age fell in importance when compared to the other Mahajanapadas.

The earliest references of the existence of the Yaudheyas is in Pāṇini's Ashtadhyayi (V.3.116-17 and IV.1.178) of (c.500 BCE) and the Ganapatha. In his works the Yaudheyas are mentioned as ayudha-jivin sanghas i.e., a community living by the profession of arms.

Mauryan Empire (4th BCE - 2nd BCE) 

The Yaudheyas were incorporated into the Maurya Empire by Chandragupta Maurya. They also annexed the Pauravas. Chandragupta, under the tutelage of Chanakya, won over local kingdoms and republics in Punjab before conquering the Nanda Empire. Chandragupta heavily relied on the Yaudheya Gana in his campaigns. His military had a high representation of the Yaudheya Gana and similar republicans. Additionally, Yaudheya elites and chiefs in were appointed government positions.

As recorded in the Bijoygarh inscription commissioned around Ashokas reign, the Yaudheya-gana-puraskrta appointed a chief who held the title of Maharaja-Senapati. This chief of the Yaudheya republic was appointed the Mahasenapati or 'Great Commander of the Army' for the Mauryan military. The Arthashastra written by Chanakya described the senapati as adept in all modes of warfare (sarvayudha), all weapons (praharana), possessing modesty and restraint (vidyavinita), and capable of controlling all four wings of the army (chaturangini sena).

Indo-Greek Empire (c. 150 BCE - c. 100 BCE) 

Following the decline of the Mauryan Empire the Western Punjab was succeeded by the Indo-Greek Kingdom. However, it was not until the reign of Menander I that the Eastern Punjab supposedly came under their dominion. Subsequently, a series of conflicts ensued between the Indo-Greek successors and various Eastern Punjab republican entities. The Trigarta Kingdom, for instance, minted their own coins, indicating their independent status. Meanwhile, the Yaudheyas and Arjunayanas emerged victorious through military prowess, achieving triumph through the sword which is stated on their minted coinage.

Western Satraps (2nd century CE) 

During the second century CE, the Yaudheya gana confronted the Indo-Scythians but they were defeated by Rudradaman I.

The Junagadh rock inscription of Rudradaman (c. 150 CE) acknowledged the military might of the Yaudheyas "who would not submit because they were proud of their title "heroes among the Kshatriyas"", although the inscription claims that they were ultimately vanquished by Rudradaman.

Alexander Cunningham proposes that Rudradaman's victory over the Yaudheyas was likely  plundering expedition rather than a claim of political control, as he does not assert their territory as part of his own kingdom.

Kushan Empire (c.130 CE - c.180 CE) 

It is thought that the Kushans then became suzerains of the Yaudheyas when they endeavored to hold the Mathura area. An indication is the fact that the Kushan ruler Huvishka featured Maaseno on his coins, the Kushan incarnation of the Hindu god Karttikeya, or Skanda, whose epithet was "Mahasena". This god being particularly important to the Yaudheyas, it may have been incorporated into Kushan coinage when the Kushans expanded into Yaudheya territory.

In Kanishka's rock Rabatak inscription, he describes campaigning into "the realm of the kshatriyas" in India, which presumably includes the Yaudheya's territories. Furthermore, Kanishka refers to commissioning statue of various local Iranian and Indian deities, including the deity Mahasena or Mahaseno (Kartikeya) which was the chief deity of the Yaudheyas and was often depicted in their coinage.

According to R. C. Majumdar, approximately 180 CE, the Yaudheyas, in conjunction with other Janapadas situated in the Cis-Sutlej region, such as the Arjunayanas and Kunindas, played a crucial role in dealing a significant blow to the Kushans. As a result, the Kushans ceased to have a presence in the Eastern Punjab. Numismatic evidence further supports this claim, as Yaudheyan coins proudly commemorate this victorious event. Notably, these coins exhibit a distinctive feature wherein the Kushan Kharosthi script is replaced by the Brahmi script, emphasising the significance of the triumph. Yaudheya coinage from the post Kushan period extend to modern day Himachal Pradesh with a large hoard excavated in Kangra, indicating their rule over the region.

Gupta Empire 

The Yaudheyas are mentioned in the Allahabad pillar inscription of Samudragupta, a ruler of the Gupta Empire. According to historical records, the Yaudheyas acknowledged the authority of Samudragupta and submitted to his rule, however this submission appears to have occurred without any armed resistance. Upinder Singh, a historian, notes that there is no specific mention of the Yaudheyas providing troops to Samudragupta, suggesting that their relationship with the empire was relatively loose. Notably, Samudragupta's successful military campaigns in the regions of Āryāvarta and Dakshinapatha greatly enhanced his reputation. It is believed that his conquests and the resulting fame were significant factors in persuading frontier rulers and tribes, including the Yaudheyas, to submit to his authority willingly, without engaging in any hostilities.

This particular period marked the gradual disintegration of the Yaudheya republic.

Literature
Puranas (e.g. Brahmanda, Vayu, Brahma and Harivamsha) described Yaudheyas as the descendants of Uśīnara and Nrigu.

There are other references to them namely in the Mahabharata, Mahamayuri, Brihatsamhita, Puranas, Chandravyakarana and Kashika.

In the Mahabharata, the land Bahudhanyaka is stated to be among the countries subjugated by Nakula, the fourth Pandava. Bahudhanyaka was the first to fall to Nakulas conquest in of the western direction toward Sakastan, which agrees with the Rohtak-Hisar area.

Varahamihira in his Brihatsamhita (XIV.28 and XVI.22) placed them in the northern division of India.

They are mentioned in Pāṇini's Ashtadhyayi and Ganapatha.

Coinage
The Yaudheyas only utilized Brahmi script on their coins and seals.

Alexander Cunningham divided the Yaudheya coins into two distinctive kinds; the older and smaller class A coins dating from before the 1st century BCE, and the larger Class B coins from the 3rd century CE during the decline of the Indo-Scythian power.  Cunningham states that the later coins evidently copied from the Indo-Scythians money.

John Allan classified Yaudheya coins into six classes, while Vincent Arthur Smith previously gave three types. The classification used by Allen has been mostly followed by scholars till today.

Yaudheya coins were found in the ancient capital of Khokrakot (modern Rohtak), and Naurangabad.

Based on the early coins produced by the Yaudheyas, it can be safely said that Karttikeya was considered their Iṣṭa-devatā.

References

Further reading
 Dasgupta, K.K. A Tribal History of Ancient India: A Numismatic Approach, Calcutta, 19