[Organic Chemistry for Advanced Students — Gutenberg #38709]

or "extension" of bulls; they were suppressed by Pius X., and their functions transferred to the _Protonotarii apostolici participantes_ (i.e. active). Further, Pope Pius confined the functions of the chancery to the sending out of bulls under the leaden seal (_sub plumbo_), for the erection of dioceses, the provision of bishoprics and consistorial benefices, and other affairs of importance, these bulls being sent out by order of the Consistorial Congregation. Dataria Apostolica. (2) The Apostolic Dataria is the department dealing with matters of grace, e.g. the concession of privileges, nominations to benefices and dispensations _in foro externo_, especially matrimonial ones; but its functions have been greatly reduced by the reforms of Pius X.; the matrimonial section has been suppressed, dispensations for marriages now belonging to the Congregation for the discipline of the sacraments; the section dealing with benefices, which is the only one preserved, deals with non-consistorial benefices reserved to the Holy See; it examines the claims of the candidates, draws up and sends out the letters of collation, gives dispensations, when necessary, in matters concerning the benefices, and manages the charges (i.e. pensions to incumbents who have resigned, &c.) imposed on the benefices by the pope. It has at its head a cardinal formerly called the _pro-datarius_, the _datarius_ having formerly been a prelate; and now _datarius_, since the reform by Pius X. The cardinal is assisted by a prelate called the _sub-datarius_, and other officials. Apostolic chamber. (3) The Apostolic Chamber (_Reverenda Camera Apostolica_) was before the abolition of the temporal power of the papacy the ministry of finance, at once treasury and exchequer, of the popes as heads of the Catholic Church as well as sovereigns of the papal states. Although it is necessarily diminished in importance, it has retained the administration of the property of the Holy See, especially during a vacancy. At its head is the cardinal camerlengo (_Sanctae Romanae Ecclesiae Cardinalis Camerarius_), who, as we know, exercises the external authority during the vacancy of the Holy See. Secretaryship of State. Briefs. (4) Next come the palatine secretariates, the first and principal of which is the secretariate of state (_Secretaria status_). The cardinal secretary of state is as it were the pope's prime minister, gathering into one centre the internal administration and foreign affairs, by means of the nunciatures and delegations depending on his department. The secretary of state is the successor of what was called in the 17th century the cardinal nephew; his functions and importance have increased more and more. The secretariate of state is the department dealing with the political affairs of the Church. To it belongs the internal administration of the apostolic palaces, with the library, archives, museums, &c. In 1908 Pius X. divided the departments of the secretariate of state into three sections, under the authority of the cardinal secretary. The first is the department of extraordinary ecclesiastical affairs, having at its head the secretary of the Congregation of the same name; the second, that of ordinary affairs, directed by a substitute, is the department dealing, among other things, with the concession of honorary distinctions, both for ecclesiastics and laymen; the third is that of the briefs, which hitherto formed a separate secretariate. It is this department which sends out, at the command of the secretary of state or the various Congregations, those papal letters which are written in less solemn form, _brevi manu_, hence the word "brief." They are written in the pope's name, but he only takes the less solemn style of: "Pius PP. X." The brief is written on thin parchment, and dated by the ordinary era and the day of the month; they were formerly signed only by the cardinal secretary of briefs or his substitute, but now by the cardinal secretary of state or the head of the office, called the chancellor of Briefs (_cancellarius Brevium_). The seal is that of the fisherman's ring, hence the formula of conclusion, "_Datum Romae, sub annulo Piscatoris_." The "Fisherman's ring" is a red ink stamp representing St Peter on a boat casting out his nets, with the name of the reigning pope. Other offices. The reform of Pius X. maintained untouched the two offices called the secretariate of briefs to princes, and the secretariate of Latin Letters, the names of which are sufficient indication of their functions. The secretariate of memorials (_Secretaria Memorialium_), through which pass requests addressed to the pope for the purpose of obtaining certain favours, was formerly of great importance; it is now suppressed and the requests are addressed to the proper departments. Finally, the pope has his special secretary, his _auditor_, with his offices, as well as the papal almonry, the officials of which administer the papal charities. The pontifical "family." IV. The pontifical "family" (_familia_) forms the pope's civil court. First come the palatine cardinals, i.e. those who, on account of their office, have the right of living in the papal palaces. These were formerly four in number: the _pro-datarius_ (now _datarius_), the secretary of state, the secretary of briefs, and the secretary of the memorials; the two last of these were suppressed in 1908. Next come the four palatine prelates, the majordomo, the superintendent of the household and its staff, and successor of the ancient _vicedominus_; the master of the chamber, who presides over the arrangement of audiences; the _auditor_, or private secretary; and finally the master of the sacred palace (_magister sacri palatii_), a kind of theological adviser, always a Dominican, whose special duty is nowadays the revision of books published at Rome. Other prelates rank with the above, but in a lower degree, notably the almoner and the various secretaries. All ecclesiastics admitted, by virtue of their office or by a gracious concession of the pope, to form part of the "family," are called domestic prelates, prelates of the household; this is an honorary title conferred on many priests not resident in Rome. The external service of the palace is performed by the Swiss Guard and the _gendarmerie_; the service of the ante-chamber by the lay and ecclesiastical chamberlains; this service has also given rise to certain honorary titles both for ecclesiastics, e.g. honorary chamberlain, and for laymen, e.g. secret chamberlain (_cameriere segreto_). (See CHAMBERLAIN.) Pontifical chapel. V. The pontifical "chapel" (_capella_) is the papal court for purposes of religious worship. In it the pope is surrounded by the cardinals according to their order; by the patriarchs, archbishops and bishops attending at the throne, and others; by the prelates of the Curia, and by all the clergy both secular and regular. Among the prelates we should mention the protonotaries, the successors of the old notaries or officials of the papal chancery in the earliest centuries; the seven _protonotarii participantes_ were restored by Pope Pius X. to the chancery, as noted above, but they have kept important honorary privileges; this is yet another source of distinctions conferred upon a great number of priests outside of Rome, the protonotaries of different classes. In a lower degree there are also the chaplains of honour. Since 1870 the great pontifical ceremonies have lost much of their splendour. BIBLIOGRAPHY.--_La Gerarchia cattolica_, an annual directory published at Rome; Lunadoro, _Relazione della corte di Roma_ (Rome, 1765); Moroni, _Dizionario di erudizione_, under the various headings; Card. De Luca, _Relatio curiae romanae_ (Cologne, 1683); Bouix, _De curia romana_ (Paris, 1859); Ferraris, _Prompta bibliotheca_ (addit. _Cassinenses_), s.v. _Congregatio_; Grimaldi, _Les Congrégations romaines_ (Sienna, 1891); _Dictionnaire de théologie catholique_, s.v. _Cour romaine_ (Paris, 1907); Publications of the acts of the Roman Congregations: Bishops and regulars--Bizzarri, _Collectanea in usum Secretariae_ (Rome, 1866, 1885). Council: the _Thesaurus resolutionum_ has published all business since 1700; a volume is issued every year, and the contents have been published in alphabetical order by Zamboni (4 vols., Rome, 1812; Arras, 1860) and by Pallottini (18 vols., Rome, 1868, &c.). Immunity: Ricci, _Synopsis, decreta et resolutiones_ (Palestrina, 1708). Propaganda: De Martinis, _Juris pontificii de Propaganda Fide_, &c. (Rome, 1888, &c.); _Collectanea S. C. de Prop. Fide_ (2nd ed., Rome, 1907). Index: _Index librorum prohibitorum_ (Rome, 1900). Rites: _Decreta authentica_ (Rome, 1898). Indulgences: _Decreta authentica_ (Regensburg, 1882); _Rescripta authentica_ (ib., 1885). (A. Bo.*) CURICÓ, a province of central Chile, lying between the provinces of Colchagua and Talca and extending from the Pacific to the Argentine frontier; area, 2978 sq. m.; pop. (1895) 103,242. The eastern and western sections are mountainous, and are separated by the fertile valley of central Chile. The mineral resources are undeveloped, but are said to include copper, gold and silver. Cattle, wheat and wine are the principal products, but Indian corn and fruit also are produced. On the coast are important salt-producing industries. The climate is mild and the rainfall more abundant than at the northern part of the valley, and the effects of this are to be seen in the better pasturage. Irrigation is used to a large extent. The province was created in 1865 by a division of Colchagua. The capital is Curicó, on the Mataquito river, in lat. 34° 58´ S. long. 71° 19´ W., 114 m. S. of Santiago by the Chilean Central railway, which crosses the province. The city stands on the great central plain, 748 ft. above sea-level, and in the midst of a comparatively well-cultivated district. It was founded in 1742 by José de Manso, and is one of the more cultured and progressive provincial towns of Chile. Pop. (1895) 12,669. Vichiquen, on a tide-water lake on the coast, is a prosperous town, the centre of the salt trade. CURIE, PIERRE (1859-1906), French physicist, was born in Paris on the 15th of May 1859, and was educated at the Sorbonne, where he subsequently became professor of physics. Although he had previously published meritorious researches on piezoelectricity, the magnetic properties of bodies at different temperatures, and other topics, he was chiefly known for his work on radium carried out jointly with his wife, Marie Sklodowska, who was born at Warsaw on the 7th of November 1867. After the discovery of the radioactive properties of uranium by Henri Becquerel in 1896, it was noticed that some minerals of uranium, such as pitchblende, were more active than the element itself, and this circumstance suggested that such minerals contained small quantities of some unknown substance or substances possessing radioactive properties in a very high degree. Acting on this surmise M. and Mme Curie subjected a large amount of pitchblende to a laborious process of fractionation, with the result that in 1898 they announced the existence in it of two highly radioactive substances, polonium and radium. In subsequent years they did much to elucidate the remarkable properties of these two substances, one of which, polonium, came to be regarded as one of the transformation-products of the other (see RADIOACTIVITY). In 1903 they were awarded the Davy medal of the Royal Society in