# Hurricane Danny (1985)

Hurricane Danny produced 13 significant (F2+) tornadoes in the Southern United States during August 1985, the most spawned by a tropical cyclone until Hurricane Ivan in 2004. The fourth named storm and third hurricane of the season, Danny developed from a tropical wave in the northwestern Caribbean Sea on August 12. The system moved northwestward and initially remained weak. Early on August 13, it brushed Cape San Antonio, Cuba before emerging the Gulf of Mexico later that day. The system then intensified into Tropical Storm Danny on August 14. Danny deepened further and became a hurricane early on the following day, while beginning to re-curve north-northwestward. Late on August 16, Danny attained its peak intensity with winds of 90 mph (150 km/h). Shortly thereafter, the storm made landfall near Grand Chenier, Louisiana at the same intensity. Early on August 17, Danny weakened to a tropical storm and was downgraded to a tropical depression several hours later. It moved east-northeastward across the Southeastern United States, until dissipating over southeastern Virginia on August 18.

There was widespread coastal and inland flooding in Louisiana. The storm brought up to  of precipitation to Kentwood. Additionally, there were two tornadoes reported in the state. Overall, 33 single-family homes and 26 mobile homes were destroyed, while three condos, 908 single-family houses and 265 mobile homes were damaged. A combination of rainfall and storm surge in southern Mississippi caused severe beach erosion and flooded 70 homes in Hancock County alone. Further north, a tornado in Enterprise severely damaged six homes, three barns, and two roofs; it also destroyed one house. In Alabama, the storm spawned 34 tornadoes, which destroyed 27 single-family residences and 18 mobile homes. About 90 homes, eight mobile homes, and 23 businesses suffered damage. Impact was similar but less severe in several other states, including Georgia, Maryland, South Carolina, Texas, and Virginia. Danny caused five fatalities and about $100 million in damage (1985 USD).

Meteorological history 

A tropical wave emerged into the Atlantic Ocean from the west coast of Africa on July 30. The system moved westward across the Atlantic Ocean without much convection, or thunderstorms. On August 8, the wave crossed the crossing the Windward Islands and entered the Caribbean Sea, whereupon convection increased. A broad low-pressure area was evident on August 10 in the central Caribbean Sea. Two days later, a United States Air Force reconnaissance aircraft observed a poorly-defined circulation near the Cayman Islands with enough organization to be designated Tropical Depression Four. The nascent depression moved northwestward without further organization, crossing over western Cuba near Cape San Antonio early on August 13. After crossing Cuba into the Gulf of Mexico, the depression organized more and intensified into Tropical Storm Danny early on August 14.

Intensifying over the open waters of the Gulf of Mexico, Danny attained hurricane status around 00:00 UTC on August 15, only 24 hours after being upgraded to a tropical storm. Danny continued to strengthen as it approached the southern United States, maintaining a northwest trajectory. The Hurricane Hunters flew into the hurricane on August 15, observing peak winds of 90 mph (150 km/h) and a minimum barometric pressure of 987 millibars (29.15 InHg). At 16:30 UTC that day, Danny turned to the north and made landfall near Lake Charles, Louisiana. While moving through the state, the hurricane's winds dropped below gale-force within 24 hours. Danny remained a distinct tropical entity as it progressed into the Tennessee Valley on August 17, its circulation drawing in drier air from the northwest. To its north, a weakening weather front was moving to the northwest ahead of a large approaching trough. These weather conditions caused a tornado outbreak, due to the  atmospheric instability and high convective available potential energy. On August 19, the circulation associated with former Hurricane Danny merged with the approaching trough, thereby becoming an extratropical cyclone. The remnants of Danny continued to the east-northeast, emerging into the western Atlantic Ocean near the Eastern Shore of Virginia, and were tracked until August 20 to the southeast of Nantucket.

Preparations 
Prior to the arrival of Danny, a gale warning and a hurricane watch was issued from the upper-Texas coast to Mobile on August 13. The next day, the gale watch was extended westward. Later that day, the watch was replaced with a hurricane warning, however, the warning area did not include New Orleans. In preparations for this storm, most of the off-shore oil companies evacuated their workers, with Amoco Corporation evacuating 900 people and Exxon-Mobil evacuated nearly 1000 people. About 5,700 people in Louisiana were housed in shelters.

Impacts 

Overall, Danny killed five people and left $50 to $100 million (1985 USD) in damage along with 73 injuries. Danny also produced an unusually intense outbreak of tornadoes, with a total of 39 touchdowns occurring over seven states. Two tornadoes were reported in Louisiana, 2 in Mississippi, 34 in Alabama, three in Tennessee, four in Georgia, one in South Carolina, and three in North Carolina. Danny's outbreak contained a then-record 13 significant tornadoes spawned by a hurricane; however, since then, Hurricane Ivan surpassed this, producing 18 significant tornadoes. Moderate to heavy rainfall fell to the east of the track while Danny remained tropical. As it was transitioning into a frontal wave across the Eastern United States, heavy rainfall became focused to the left of its track, overrunning the frontal surface ahead of the storm.

Louisiana 
The primary effect from Danny in Louisiana was coastal and inland flooding. The storm dropped heavy rainfall, peaking at  in Kentwood. Along the coast, storm surge inundated barrier islands, damaged coastal marshes, and caused erosion. Two tornadoes were spawned by the storm in Louisiana. Overall, the American Red Cross reported that 33 single-family homes and 26 mobile homes were destroyed, with 454 single-family houses and 175 mobile homes receiving extensive impact. Minor damage was reported at three condos, 90 mobile homes, and 454 single-family homes. Additionally, about 38,000 acres of crops were damaged. Sixty-six people were injured by the storm, though no deaths were reported. Initial property estimations revealed $17 to $23 million in damage, with roughly half of this coming from agricultural damage. The American Insurance Association estimated $25.1 million in insured losses, with the damage toll about two to three times greater than this.

In St. Tammany Parish,  of rain fell in Slidell, flooding streets and dozens of homes. Additionally, strong winds toppled trees, which fell on houses, mobile homes, and cars. Along the coast, storm tides destroyed a $5,000 pier, while low-lying roads in Madisonville and Mandeville were closed due to inundation. Another tornado was spawned in St. Bernard Parish north of Reggio. Coastal flooding along Highway 46 near Hopedale left the road impassable. In Plaquemines Parish,  of storm tides flooded areas along the Mississippi River and outside of the levee system from Empire southward. In Jefferson Parish, a small tornado on Grand Isle de-roofed two buildings, resulting in about $25,000 in damage. At Grand Isle State Park, storm surge destroyed a  section of the pier and  of the shoreline was eroded, with about 7.8 million cu ft (220,871 m3) of sand washed away from the hurricane protection levee. Overall, at least $320,000 in damage was reported at the state park. Storm surge also damaged several homes and fishing camps in the cities of Galliano, Golden Meadow, Leeville, and Port Fourchon in Lafourche Parish. At Port Fourchon, about  of beach was eroded. Winds downed trees in Lockport, Raceland, and Thibodaux. A  sailboat offshore Terrebonne Parish sank due to rough seas and gales. A Coast Guard helicopter had to evacuate 7 Texans who were on a yacht in the Gulf of Mexico forty miles offshore, since their radio was broken and they were therefore unaware they were sailing into the storm. After being rescued, they were treated for minor injuries at a suburban New Orleans hospital. Inland, the communities of Cocodrie, Montegut, Isle de Jean Charles, and Pointe-aux-Chenes were hardest hit.

In St. Mary Parish, storm surge caused about $500,000 in damage at Cypremort Point State Park. In Iberia Parish, storm surge heights ranging from  inundated barrier islands and coastal marshes, resulting in about $2 million in damage to houses, businesses, and fishing camps. In Vermilion Parish, storm surge inundated areas of Henry and Intracoastal City with up to  of water. In the latter, 30 businesses were flooded and a kerosene tank was damaged. Strong winds were also observed in the parish, with gusts up to   recorded in Ab