# 1887 in baseball

Champions

Major League Baseball
National League: Detroit Wolverines
American Association: St. Louis Browns

World Series

Detroit defeated St. Louis, ten games to five.

Minor League Baseball
California League: San Francisco Pioneers
Eastern League: Waterbury
International League: Toronto
New England League: Lowell
Northwestern League: Oshkosh
Southern League: New Orleans
Western League: Topeka

College baseball
American College Association: Dartmouth College
Eastern College League: Yale University
Inter-Collegiate Association: Michigan Agriculture College
New York State Inter-Collegiate Base Ball League: Hobart College

Major league baseball final standings

National League final standings

American Association final standings

Statistical leaders

National League statistical leaders

American Association statistical leaders

Notable seasons

St. Louis Browns left fielder Tip O'Neill led the AA in batting average (.435), on-base percentage (.490), slugging percentage (.691), adjusted OPS+ (213), hits (225), home runs (14), total bases (357), runs scored (167), and runs batted in (123).
Baltimore Orioles pitcher Matt Kilroy had a win–loss record of 46–19 and led the AA in innings pitched (589.1), wins (46), and shutouts (6). He was second in the AA in earned run average (3.07) and strikeouts (217). He was fourth in the AA in adjusted ERA+ (133).

Events

January–March
January 18 – The Kansas City Cowboys are admitted to the Western League. Though this incarnation of the franchise folds after one season, three other teams based in Kansas City would also use the Cowboys moniker, the last appearing in the Union Association in 1889. 
February 8 – Albert Spalding of the Chicago White Stockings meets with star player Mike "King" Kelly for contract talks.  Kelly wants his $375 bonus for good behavior during the 1886 season.  Spalding not only refuses the bonus, but also refuses to refund $225 in fines levied against Kelly for drinking.  Spalding has already sold all 3 starting outfielders from the defending champion White Stockings and is aggressively looking to rid his team of drinkers.
February 8 – The St. Louis Maroons are sold to a group in Indianapolis for $12,000.  The team will play the 1887 season as the Indianapolis Hoosiers.
February 9 – In order to make room the Pittsburgh Alleghenys and keep the league structure at 8 teams, the National League buys out the Kansas City Cowboys for $6,000.
February 14 – James Billings, an owner of the Boston Beaneaters, reaches a contract agreement with Mike "King" Kelly that will pay him $2,000 per season as well as a $3,000 bonus if the Beaneaters can purchase his reserve rights from the Chicago White Stockings.
February 16 – Mike "King" Kelly is sold to the Boston Beaneaters for $10,000, more than double the price ever paid for any player.  Kelly becomes commonly known during that time as "$10,000 Kelly" because of the sale.
February 20 – John Montgomery Ward, president of The Brotherhood of Professional Baseball Players speaks out against the increasing pattern of player-selling.  The Brotherhood will later start the rival Players' League in 1890.

April–June
April 17 – Chris von der Ahe of the St. Louis Browns purchases 19-year-old Silver King from the National League, who hold the rights to all of the 1886 Kansas City Cowboy players after the NL bought out the franchise.  King will go on to win 111 games in the next 3 seasons for the Browns, leading them to 2 American Association pennants.
April 20 – Albert Spalding of the Chicago White Stockings completes his purge of players who drink by trading holdout pitcher Jim McCormick to the Pittsburgh Alleghenys for rookie George Van Haltren and $2,000 cash.
April 22 – Tony Mullane of the Cincinnati Red Stockings pitches his first game in the state of Missouri since 1883 after resolving the injunction he had been under for nearly 4 years.  Mullane beats the St. Louis Browns 5–2.
April 30 – Tip O'Neill of the St. Louis Browns hits for the cycle in a 28–11 drubbing of the Cleveland Blues.
May 2 – Fred Carroll of the Pittsburgh Alleghenys hits for the cycle in an 8–3 win over the Detroit Wolverines.
May 6 – The National Colored Base Ball League begins with the New York Gorhams beating the Pittsburgh Keystones by a score of 11–8.  The league would fold on May 23 after having played only 13 official league games.
May 7 – Tip O'Neill of the St. Louis Browns hits for the cycle for the 2nd time in 5 games.  The Browns beat the Louisville Colonels, 12–7.
May 9 – Ed Morris of the Pittsburgh Alleghenys refuses to pitch his scheduled start and is suspended by the club for 3 weeks.
May 14 – John Roach of the New York Giants switch-pitches in a 17–2 loss to the Philadelphia Quakers in his only major league appearance.
May 23 – National Colored Base Ball League or the League of Colored Baseball Clubs, the first attempt to have a league consisting of all-black teams, folds after two weeks in operation.
May 24 – Jerry Denny of the Indianapolis Hoosiers gives Mike "King" Kelly a dose of his own medicine when he prevents Kelly from scoring by grabbing his belt and holding him at third base as Kelly attempts to tag up on a fly ball.  The umpire who was watching the flight of the ball, didn't see Denny's action.  Kelly was well known in baseball for bending the rules to his advantage when the umpire was not looking.
May 28 – Pitcher Tony Mullane, suspended by the Cincinnati Red Stockings, sues the team for lost pay.  Mullane and the Reds will eventually settle the suit out of court and Mullane will return to the team in mid-June.
May 30 – New York Giants pitcher Bill George sets a major league record by walking 16 batters in a 12–11 loss to the Chicago White Stockings.
June 4 – During the pre-game warm up, Joe Hornung places a bat on home plate and challenges pitcher Charlie Ferguson to hit it, which Ferguson promptly does on his first attempt.
June 9 – New York Metropolitans outfielder Candy Nelson sets a record by starting 3 double plays in one game.
June 16 – Curt Welch of the St. Louis Browns is arrested for assault in Baltimore after breaking up a double play against the Orioles.  Welch will be fined $4.50 in court the next day.
June 27 – Rookie pitcher George Van Haltren makes his major league debut for the Chicago White Stockings and ties a major league record by issuing 16 walks in a losing cause.  Van Haltren will soon move to the outfield and amass over 2500 hits in a 17-year career.

July–September
July 1 – The Philadelphia Quakers and the Detroit Wolverines set a record by scoring in 15 of the 18 half-innings in the Wolverines 17–13 victory.
July 6 – Alex McKinnon of the Pittsburgh Alleghenys leaves the team after contracting what is believed to be typhoid fever. McKinnon died on July 24.
July 10 – Enforcing a new law, St. Louis police stop the game and arrest Browns owner Chris von der Ahe for conducting business on a Sunday.  Within a week a judge will exempt baseball from the law.
July 14 – In an exhibition game against Newark from the International League, Chicago White Stockings player-manager Cap Anson refuses to play if Newark uses their black players, George Stovey and Moses Fleetwood Walker.  Newark gives in and benches the 2 players, then beats the White Stockings 9–4.
July 22 – A pitcher named Frank Chapman makes his only appearance for the Philadelphia Athletics. This appearance is notable because he would later be misidentified as a 14-year-old named Fred Chapman, who was long believed to be the youngest player in major league history. This error would not be discovered until 2009.
July 26 – Philadelphia Athletics catcher Jocko Milligan sets a record by recording 3 assists in one inning.
August 9 – Charlie Buffinton of the Philadelphia Quakers pitches his 2nd consecutive 1-hitter.
August 10 – For the second time in his career, first baseman Dave Orr of the New York Metropolitans hits for the cycle.  Despite Orr's efforts New York loses to the Baltimore Orioles, 6–5.
August 23 – Ned Williamson hits a mammoth home run over the center field fence at Boston's South End Grounds.  It is only the 2nd ball hit over the fence in center field in the park's 17-year history.  Rain later washes out the game and Williamson's home run with it.
August 26 – Cincinnati Red Stockings second baseman Bid McPhee hits for the cycle against the Baltimore Orioles.  Cincinnati loses, however, 19–11.
August 27 – Mike "King" Kelly and Ezra Sutton set a record for most runs scored in a game by 2 teammates as they score 6 times each in the Boston Beaneaters 28–14 win.
August 29 – Denny Lyons is held hitless for the first time since May 23, a span covering 52 games.  Under the rules of 1887, a walk counted as a base hit, and as a result Lyons' feat is largely ignored today since he needed walks to continue his streak on July 22 and again on August 19.
August 31 – The New York Metropolitans become the first team ever to use 5 pitchers in one game in a 25–11 loss to the