# Zapotec languages

The Zapotec  languages are a group of around 50 closely related indigenous Mesoamerican languages that constitute a main branch of the Oto-Manguean language family and which is spoken by the Zapotec people from the southwestern-central highlands of Mexico. A 2020 census reports nearly half a million speakers, with the majority inhabiting the state of Oaxaca. Zapotec-speaking communities are also found in the neighboring states of Puebla, Veracruz, and Guerrero. Labor migration has also brought a number of native Zapotec speakers to the United States, particularly in California and New Jersey. Most Zapotec-speaking communities are highly bilingual in Spanish.

Name
The name of the language in Zapotec itself varies according to the geographical variant. In Juchitán (Isthmus) it is Diidxazá , in Mitla it is Didxsaj , in Zoogocho it is Diža'xon , in Coatec Zapotec it is Di'zhke''' , in Miahuatec Zapotec it is Dí'zdéh  and in Santa Catarina Quioquitani it is Tiits Së , for example. The first part of these expressions has the meaning 'word' (perhaps slightly reduced as appropriate for part of a compound).

Classification

External
Zapotec and the related Chatino languages together form the Zapotecan subgroup of the Oto-Manguean language family. Zapotec languages (along with all Oto-Manguean languages) form part of the Mesoamerican Linguistic Area, an area of linguistic convergence developed throughout millennia of interaction between the peoples of Mesoamerica. As a result, languages have acquired characteristics from genetically unrelated languages of the area.

Internal

Geographic range and dialect differentiation
Although commonly described as a language, Zapotec is a fairly extensive, if close-knit, language family. The time depth is comparable to that of the Romance languages. Dialectal divergence between Zapotec-speaking communities is extensive and complicated. Many varieties of Zapotec are mutually unintelligible with one another. There are some radical jumps in intelligibility between geographically close communities, so the varieties do not form a dialect continuum in a strict sense, though neither are there clear-cut divisions between groups of varieties. As a result, the Mexican government officially recognizes sixty Zapotec languages.

Zapotec languages fall into four broad geographic divisions: Zapoteco de la Sierra Norte (Northern Zapotec), Valley Zapotec, Zapoteco de la Sierra Sur (Southern Zapotec), and Isthmus Zapotec. Northern Zapotec languages are spoken in the mountainous region of Oaxaca, in the Northern Sierra Madre mountain ranges; Southern Zapotec languages and are spoken in the mountainous region of Oaxaca, in the Southern Sierra Madre mountain ranges; Valley Zapotec languages are spoken in the Valley of Oaxaca, and Isthmus Zapotec languages are spoken in the Isthmus of Tehuantepec. However, Valley Zapotec and Isthmus Zapotec group together (as Central Zapotec), and this ignores the Papabuco and Western Zapotec varieties.

Conservative and innovative characteristics
Certain characteristics serve to classify Zapotec varieties in ways that cross-cut the geographical divisions. One of these is the distinction between disyllabic roots and monosyllabic roots. Proto-Zapotec had disyllabic roots; the vowel of the second syllable could be any one of the inventory of vowels. One innovation shared by many varieties of Zapotec is the loss (or partial loss) of the vowel of the second syllable. The word for 'water' illustrates this fact. In conservative varieties, the vowel of the second syllable is retained:  in Isthmus Zapotec and  in Sierra de Juárez Zapotec, for example.

In innovative varieties, the vowel of the second syllable was lost:  in Amatlán Zapotec and Mitla Zapotec, for example. The loss of the vowel  often resulted in palatalized consonants, and the loss of  often resulted in labialized consonants. Compare the words for 'dog' in conservative varieties (Isthmus , Sierra de Juárez ) and innovative varieties (Amatlán  and Mitla ). In this particular word Amatlán does not have a labialized consonant at the end, and the otherwise innovative variety Yatzachi keeps the final vowel: .

Another characteristic that classifies Zapotec varieties is the existence or not of a contrast between alveopalatal fricatives and retroflex fricatives. Innovative varieties have introduced the contrast while conservative varieties have not.

Phylogenetic classification 
The most influential classification of Zapotec languages is due to Thomas Smith Stark, who proposed the following overall classification of Zapotec languages.

Overall family tree and Central Zapotec branch
The branch of the family that contains the most languages is Central Zapotec, which includes most of the Zapotec languages of the Valley of Oaxaca and the Isthmus of Tehuantepec.  The following figure shows the classification suggested by Smith Stark (2007).

Northern Zapotec branch
The Northern branch is shown in more detail below, again following Smith Stark (2007)

Mutual intelligibility and regional classification

Based on intelligibility studies, previous classifications, and the needs for literacy development, Merrill (2008) classifies the varieties as follows; several varieties (in brackets) often small and moribund, were not included in the principal list:

Central Zapotec
Isthmus Guevea, Isthmus Zapotec (Juchitán), Lachiguiri, Petapa, Quiavicuzas
Valley Quiatoni–Mitla, Albarradas, Guelavia–Güila–?Chichicapan, San Antonio Ocotlan?–Tilquiapan–Yatzeche (Zagache)–[Zaachila], ? Ayoquezco
Mazaltepec Zapotec? [Tejalapan]
Sierra Norte
Villa Alta Choapan, Rincon, Tabaa, Yatee, Cajonos–Yalalag–Zoogocho–Yatzachi
Ixtlán Yareni–Atepec–Ixtlan–Sierra Juarez, Yavesia, [Aloápam]
Sierra Sur
Miahuatlan Amatlan, Coatecas Altas, Coatlan, Loxicha, San Baltázar Loxicha–[San Vicente], Miahuatlan (Cuixtla), Ozolotepec, [Lapaguía, Xadani]
Yautepec San Agustin Mixtepec, San Juan Mixtepec–San Jose Lachiguiri, Quiegolani, Quioquitani, San Pedro Leapi, Xanaguia, Xanica, [Tlacolulita]
Western Zapotec
Papabuco Texmelucan, Zaniza, [Elotepec]
Solteco Solteco†, Lachixio–San Miguel Mixtepec–[El Alto], [Totomachapan]
Two of the moribund varieties, Asunción Mixtepec and San Bartolo Yautepec (ISO "Yautepec"), are apparently divergent.

Santa Catarina Albarradas Zapotec was not listed, and presumably subsumed under Albarradas Zapotec, but intelligibility is one-way.

Other classifications
Based on forms of the personal pronouns, Operstein (2003) groups the languages as follows:

Proto-Zapotec
Southern Zapotec
Papabuco
(unnamed)
Solteco
Northern Zapotec
Central Zapotec
Valley Zapotec
Isthmus Zapotec

Based on the development of Proto-Zapotec *tty/*ty and *ttz/*tz, Operstein (2012) groups the Zapotec languages as follows.

Proto-Zapotec
Western
Papabuco
Coatec
Core Zapotec
Southern
Central
Northern

Phonetics and phonology

Fortis and lenis
In Zapotec languages, fortis typically corresponds to voicelessness and extra length in obstruents and extra length in sonorants. Lenis corresponds to voicing and less length in obstruents and less length in sonorants. In addition, stressed vowels before lenis consonants may be longer than those before fortis consonants.

Retroflex consonants
Some varieties of Zapotec have a contrast between alveopalatal fricatives and retroflex fricatives. In other varieties this distinction has been lost in favor of only one or the other.

Tone
Zapotec languages are tonal, as are Otomanguean languages generally. Unfortunately, materials on Zapotec languages vary widely in the quality of their tonal description and analysis.

Whistling has been used by Zapotec people to communicate in a way that would not be detected by their colonizers.

Many Northern Zapotec languages, such as Sierra Juárez (Nellis and Nellis 1983, Bickmore and Broadwell 1998, Tejada 2010) show a system of three level tones (L, M, H) plus two contours.  Potential aspect and 1st person singular both involve floating high tones. One example is Texmelucan Zapotec, which has four contrasting tones: three contour tones and one level tone, as shown in the figure. These tones are used for "word play" frequently.

A typical system for a Central Zapotec language has two level tones plus contours, but there are complex interactions between tone, stress and phonation type, e.g. San Lucas Quiaviní (Chávez Peón 2010).

Phonation
Zapotec languages all display contrastive phonation type differences in vowels. Minimally they have simple  vowels vs. some kind of laryngealization or creakiness; see Quioquitani Zapotec, for example. Others have a contrast between simple, laryngealized and "checked" vowels (which sound like they end in a glottal stop); see Isthmus Zapotec, for example. Others have a contrast between those types and also breathy vowels. The latter varieties include Mitla Zapotec and San Lucas Quiaviní Zapotec.

Stress
Varieties that are described as having stress, including Isthmus Zapotec, have it on the pe