# Youngstown–Warren Regional Airport

Youngstown–Warren Regional Airport  is a public and military airport in Vienna Township, Trumbull County, Ohio, 11 miles north of Youngstown and  east of Warren. The airport is home to the Youngstown–Warren Air Reserve Station.

The airport has been in operation for over 50 years. It is run by the Western Reserve Port Authority, made up of members appointed by the Mahoning and Trumbull County Commissioners. The WRPA plays a vital role in the regional economy as it teams with the Youngstown–Warren Regional Chamber of Commerce and is leading the plan to clean up the Mahoning River.

History
The Youngstown–Warren Regional Airport began as the Youngstown Municipal Airport (MAP), and was one of the last Works Progress Administration projects. Construction began in 1939, and the airport opened a year later. The airport is located  north of Youngstown in Vienna Center due to limited space available within the city for the planned size. The airport that had been serving the city, Lansdowne Airport, lacked room to expand.

In 1981, a 225,000-ft2 production facility for the Commuter Aircraft Corporation was built on the west side of the airport, but the company closed down before any aircraft were built.

Northwest Airlines discontinued service to Detroit via Akron–Canton in September 2002, leaving the airport without scheduled airline service. In May 2006, Allegiant Air launched a route to Sanford near Orlando. It subsequently added flights to St. Petersburg–Clearwater and Myrtle Beach. The company ceased all of its Youngstown routes in January 2018, and the airport has lacked passenger air service since then.

Youngstown Air Reserve Station

Youngstown ARS is located at the Youngstown–Warren Regional Airport. Its primary mission is to serve as home of the 910th Airlift Wing (910 AW), an Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) C-130H unit with two flying squadrons and a total of 16 aircraft. The 910 AW is operationally gained by the Air Mobility Command  and a portion of the wing is devoted to its aerial spray mission. The 910 AW has nearly 1,450 personnel, consisting of a combination of full-time active guard and reserve, air reserve technicians, and traditional part-time drilling Air Force reservists. The installation also hosts a Navy Operational Support Center and a Marine Corps Reserve Center that is home to nearly 400 Navy and Marine Corps reservists in various units.  It is also home to the Youngstown ARS Composite Squadron of the Ohio Wing of the Civil Air Patrol.

Facilities and aircraft
Youngstown–Warren Regional Airport covers  at an elevation of 1,196 feet (365 m) above mean sea level. It has three asphalt runways: 5/23 is 5,002 by 150 feet (1,525 x 46 m); 14/32 is 9,003 by 150 feet (2,744 x 46 m); 143/323, a military-use only runway, is 3,501 by 60 feet (1,067 x 18 m).

In the year ending September 30, 2019, the airport had 20,029 aircraft operations, average 69 per day: 66% general aviation, 23% military, 10% air taxi and  less than 1% scheduled commercial. 37 aircraft were then based at this airport: 20 single-engine, 2 multi-engine, 7 jet and 8 military.

The former long-term parking lot is currently being used as a training location for a tractor-trailer driving school.

Passenger terminal
The Youngstown Warren Regional Airport terminal building sits on the southeast end of the airport.

In 2000, the Youngstown Airport renovated and expanded the boarding area. The new gate area consists of six gates (two jetways and four ground-loading gates), and can accommodate aircraft ranging up to the size of a Boeing 757. The airport is equipped to handle up to 250,000 passengers a year in the current configuration and can seat up to 400 passengers at any given time.

The airport currently has four ticket counters, one baggage claim and on-site capacity for up to five rental car companies. The airport's only on-site restaurant, Mikees II, closed shortly after Allegiant Airlines ceased all remaining operations to the airport in 2018. The airport offers a recently expanded parking facility with the lowest cost of parking in the area.

The airport's master plan calls for an expanded terminal to add another three gates, should air service return and spike at any time.

Statistics

Passenger traffic

Ground transportation
Youngstown Airport has a number of taxicab and shuttle services.

Avis Car Rental and Budget Rent a Car offer rental vehicles from the airport.

See also
Lansdowne Airport
Salem Airpark
Youngstown Elser Metro Airport
Youngstown Executive Airport

References

External links
 Youngstown Warren Regional Airport, official site
 
 

County airports in Ohio
Transportation in Youngstown, Ohio
Works Progress Administration in Ohio
Buildings and structures in Trumbull County, Ohio
Transportation in Trumbull County, Ohio
Warren, Ohio