# Kekeya Kingdom

Kekeya Kingdom (also known as Kekaya, Kaikaya, Kaikeya etc.) was a kingdom mentioned in the ancient Indian epic Mahabharata among the western kingdoms of then India. The epic Ramayana mentions one of the wives of Dasharatha, the king of Kosala and father of Rama, was from Kekeya kingdom and was known as Kaikeyi. Her son Bharata conquered the neighbouring kingdom of Gandhara and built the city of Takshasila. Later the sons and descendants of Bharata ruled this region from Takshasila in modern day Pakistan.

In Mahabharata, a Kekaya prince was mentioned, who joined the Pandavas in the Kurukshetra War. He was the eldest among the six brothers and was described as a king known as Vrihatkshatra who is banished from his kingdom by his own kinsmen, like the Pandavas who were banished from their Kuru Kingdom, by their cousin brothers viz the Kauravas headed by Duryodhana. Thus this Kekaya brother was circumstantially inclined to ally with the Pandavas. Besides this, the 6 Kekaya brothers were sons of the sister of Kunti, the mother of the Pandavas, making them cousins. In the Kurukshetra War, the Kekaya brother fought against his own kinsmen, viz the other 5 Kekaya brothers who sided with Duryodhana.

References in Valmiki Ramayana

There are several references to Kaikeyi in the epic Ramayana. Kaikeyi was one of the three queens of Dasharatha, the king of Ayodhya.  She was a Kekaya princess, and the daughter of Ashwapati. Ramayana testifies that the capital of Kekayas lay beyond river Sudama. River Sudama has been identified with river Saranges of Arrian which flowed also flowed through Kekians.  The Vedic texts do not mention  name of the capital of Kekaya but Ramayana does  inform us that the Kekaya metropolis was Rajagriha or Girivraja.  which  A. Cunningham  has identified with Girjak or Jalalpur on river Jhelum in the Jhelum district  but this view has not been accepted by scholars. Ramayana further attests that Kekaya lay beyond Vipasa or Beas  and abutted with the country of Gandharava or Gandhara vishaya (country). Ravana, the son of Vishrava and Kaikesi (Princess of Kaikeya may be an early predecessor of Bhagawan Rama’s Step mother) was born in Devagana.

References in Vishnu-Dharmottara Mahapurana
According to Vishnu-Dharmottara Mahapurana also, the capital of  the Kekayas lay beyond river Sudama which flowed some distance westwards from the Vitasta or Jhelum river. Prince Bharata, son of princess Kekayi,  while going to Kekaya country from  Ayodhya had to cross river Vitasta and then after crossing river Sudama, he reached the land of the Kekayas.

References in Mahabharata 

Kekaya is mentioned as an ancient Indian kingdom at (6,9).

Alliances of Kekaya brides with Puru kings 

Puru king Sarvabhauma married Sunanda, the daughter of the Kekaya prince, having obtained her by force. (1,95)
Puru king Parikshit's son Bhimasena married Kumari, the princess of Kekaya and begot upon her Pratisravas whose son was Pratipa, the father of Santanu. (1,95)

Kekaya Kings

King Sahasrachitya 

There was a ruler of the Kekayas, named Sahasrachitya and he was the grandfather of king Satayupa, who was the contemporary of Kuru king Dhritarashtra. Abdicating his kingdom to his eldest son, king Sahasrachitya retired into the woods. (15,20)

King Satyayupa 

Satayupa was the great king of the Kekayas. Having made over the sovereignty of his kingdom to his son he had come into the woods. Kuru king Dhritarashtra, after the Kurukshetra War was over, installed the victorious Pandava king Yudhishthira, on the throne of the Kuru capital, Hastinapura. He then retired to woods. Then Satayupa, received king Dhritarashtra with due rites. Accompanied by him, the latter proceeded to the retreat of Vyasa. Arrived at Vyasa’s retreat, Dhritarashtra received his initiation into the forest mode of life. Returning he took up his abode in the retreat of Satayupa. The high-souled Satayupa, instructed Dhritarashtra in all the rites of the forest mode, at the command of Vyasa. (15,19)

King Vrihatkhsatra 

The Kekaya brothers (six each) who fought the Kurukshetra War, on the side of Pandavas as well as on the side of Kauravas, belonged to the next generation of Kekaya's royal family. The foremost of them was Vrihatkshatra, the eldest of the brothers who sided with the Pandavas. He was described as a king of Kekaya. He had a son named Visoka, who also fought in Kurukshetra War.

Kekaya bowmen Dyumatsena 
Not much is known about this warrior from Kekaya except the following passages.

After Bhima completed his learning with Balarama, he became in strength like unto Dyumatsena himself (1,141). Dyumatsena, the chief of bowmen among the Kekayas was present in Yudhishthira's court, newly inaugurated at Indraprastha (2,3).

Kekaya's friendship with the Pandavas 

The five Kekaya princes, allied with the Kauravas and Eldest sixth one allied with Pandavas and visited the Pandavas when they were banished into woods along with other Pandava allies viz Vasudeva Krishna, Dhristadyumna and Dhrishtaketu (3–12,22,51,120), (5,55).

The five Kekaya brothers, on the Kauravas side 

The five Kekaya brothers who battled on the Kauravas side in Kurukshetra War is mentioned at many places (5–61,83,144).

At (5,22) is mentioned:- deposed from the throne of the Kekaya land, and desirous of being reinstated thereon, the five mighty brothers from that land, wielding mighty bows, are now following the Pandavas ready to fight. The Panchalas and the Matsyas, along with the very herdsmen that attend on their kins and sheep, are rejoicing and gladdening Yudhishthira (5–50,53). Only one Kekaya brother is on Pandavas side.

The five royal brothers of Kekaya, accepted the Kekaya warriors (on Dhritarashtra’s side) as antagonists.  And in their share are included the Malavas also, and the Salwakas, as also, the two famous warriors of the Trigarta host who have sworn to conquer or die. (5,57).

The princes of Kekaya, and Dhrishtaketu, and the son of the king of the Kasis, and Srenimat, and Vasudana, and the invincible Sikhandin, all hale and hearty, cased in armour and armed with weapons and decked with ornaments, marched behind Yudhishthira (5,152).

The hundred Kekaya brothers on Kaurava side 

Kekayas on Kaurava side is mentioned at many places (5–19,30,198), (6,16)

The five Kekaya brothers, (probably those who sided with Duryodhana) were equated with the five Asuras viz Ayahsira, Aswasira, Aysanku, Gaganamurdhan, and Vegavat. (1,67)

Jayadratha (the brother-in-law of Duryodhana), assisted by the Kekayas, endeavoured to ravish Draupadi (the wife of Pandavas) (11,22)

The five royal brothers, the princes of Kekaya, hastened to Duryodhana with an Akshauhini of troops, and gladdened his heart. (5,19). Kekayas were mentioned along with the Vasatis, the Salwakas, the Amvashthas, and the Trigartas as allies of Duryodhana at (5,30). The Kekayas on the Kaurava side marched under Drona along with Vinda and Anuvinda, both of Avanti and the Vahlikas. (5,198). 100 Kekaya brothers were generals in the Kaurava army along with others like Vinda and Anuvinda, of Avanti (6,16).

The camp of the Kekayas used to have loud sound of song and slapping of palms which their soldiers, engaged in dance and revelry, used to make. (7,84)

The appearance of Kekaya brothers on Pandava side 

The Kekaya brothers, were all of the hue of Indragopaka insects (mix of red and black colors) (5,141). All of them had purple flags (5,57). The five Kekaya brothers, resembling (in hue) the insects called Indragopakas, had red coats of mail, red weapons and red banners. (7,10). The five Kekaya brothers were borne by steeds of deep red hue. They were of the splendour of gold and had standards of the red hue, and were decked with chains of gold (7,23).

The Kekaya brother is lying on the ground, slain by Drona. Their coats of mail, of the splendour of heated gold, and their tall standards and cars and garlands, all made of the same metal, are shedding a bright light on the earth like so many blazing fires. (11,25)

Kekayas in Kurukshetra War 

The Kekayas are said to have fought on both sides in the Kurukshetra war. The five Kekaya princes, led by their elder brother Vrihatkshatra, had joined the Pandava army while other Kekaya brothers opposed Vrihatkshatra had sided with the Kauravas. The other numerous kingdoms of ancient India  viz. Dwaraka, Kasi, Magadha, Matsya, Mahishmati, Chedi, Pandya and the Yadus of Mathura were allies of Pandavas while the allies of the Kauravas were nations of Pragjyotisha, Anga, Kekaya, Sindhudesa, Avanti in Madhyadesa, Madras, Gandhara, Bahlika, Kamboja (with Yavanas, Sakas, Tusharas) and many others had sided with Kauravas.

Karna Parava refers to the Kekayas, the Malavas, the Madrakas, the Dravidas of fierce prowess, the Yaudheyas, the Lalittyas, the Kshudrakas, the Tundikeras, the Savitriputras, who had supported Karna on 17th day of the war, as all having been slain by Arjuna.

Mahabharata  associates the Kekay