# Noire River (Ottawa River tributary)

The Noire River (also known as the Black River or Rivière Noire in French) is a river in western Quebec, Canada. It runs in a south-eastern direction into the Ottawa River at Waltham, Quebec. It is named after the dark colour of its water (noire is French for "Black").

This river is often grouped together with the Dumoine and Coulonge Rivers as three of a kind. All three are in the same area, have similar characteristics, and are popular with whitewater canoers.

A landmark on the lower Noire River was the Black River Inn. Built during the boom of the log driving era in the early 20th century, the inn was a bustling depot for lumberjacks at that time. Afterwards, it catered to outdoor tourism as an outfitter for hunting, fishing, and canoeing along the Noire River. The Black River Inn burnt down on March 6, 2021.

Geography
The Noire River springs from an unnamed location in wilderness just south of La Vérendrye Wildlife Reserve. It flows through Quebec's portion of the Canadian Shield and is marked by sections of rocky whitewater alternated by meandering sections through sand valleys.

Typical trees in this area are Black Spruce, Jack Pine, Eastern White Pine, Red Pine, juniper, alder, and birch. The river is undeveloped except the last , where cottages and even an inn line the river. Just before it flows into the Ottawa River, there is dam with a power generating station on the Noire River.

Paddling the Noire River
The Noire River is not navigable until the confluence with Coughlin Creek, about  from its end. From here, the rapids that can be run are mostly Class 1 or 2 (based on medium water levels). A total of  are runnable whitewater. Notable rapids on the Noire are:
km 114, "The Wall" - technical Class 2.
km 100, "Targie" - Class 3 to 2.
km 51, "50-50" - Class 3.
km 40 to 30 - continuous Class 1 and swifts (except in low water)

One portage of note is the one around Mountain Chute. One has to take either a long route through arduous terrain or a shorter one that begins at the top of the falls and ends in a steep near-vertical descent requiring ropes.

Hydroelectric station and dam
The river has been used for hydroelectric power generation since the beginning of the 20th century and is reputedly the first commercial station in Canada.

A high capacity gravity concrete dam was built in 1937 and modified in 1994. The dam is  high,  long, and has a capacity of . The dam and W.R. Beatty Generating Station are near the mouth of the river at the outlet of Robinson Lake and generate 10.6 MW.

Originally owned by the Pembroke Electric Light Company and then the Pontiac Hydro Commission, it was acquired in 1996 by Brookfield Power.

References

External links

Rivers of Outaouais
Tributaries of the Ottawa River