# List of Catholic universities and colleges in the United States

There are 197 US members of ACCU (Association of Catholic Colleges and Universities) as of 2014. They make up a significant number of the total of Catholic universities and colleges in the world.

Adorers of the Blood of Christ 
Newman University (Wichita, Kansas)

Assumptionists (Augustinians of the Assumption) 
Assumption University (Worcester, Massachusetts)

Augustinian (Order of Saint Augustine) 
Merrimack College (North Andover, Massachusetts)
Villanova University (Villanova, Pennsylvania)

Basilian (Congregation of St. Basil) 
University of St. Thomas (Houston, Texas)

Benedictine (Order of Saint Benedict) 

- Association of Benedictine Colleges and Universities

Belmont Abbey College (Belmont, North Carolina)
Benedictine College (Atchison, Kansas)
Benedictine University (Lisle, Illinois)
Catholic Distance University (Charles Town, West Virginia)
College of Saint Benedict (St. Joseph, Minnesota)
The College of St. Scholastica (Duluth, Minnesota)
Donnelly College (Kansas City, Kansas)
Mount Marty University (Yankton, South Dakota)
Saint Anselm College (Goffstown, New Hampshire)
Saint John's University (Collegeville, Minnesota)
Saint Leo University (St. Leo, Florida)
Saint Martin's University (Lacey, Washington)
Saint Vincent College (Latrobe, Pennsylvania)
University of Mary (Bismarck, North Dakota)

Brothers of Christian Instruction 
Walsh University (North Canton, Ohio)

Christian Brothers (Congregation of Christian Brothers) 
Iona University (New Rochelle, New York)

Congregation of Sisters of St. Agnes 
Marian University (Fond du Lac, Wisconsin)

De La Salle Christian Brothers / Lasallian (Institute of the Brothers of the Christian Schools) 

Christian Brothers University (Memphis, Tennessee)
La Salle University (Philadelphia, Pennsylvania)
Lewis University (Romeoville, Illinois)
Manhattan College (Riverdale, Bronx, New York)
Saint Mary's College of California (Moraga, California)
Saint Mary's University of Minnesota (Winona, Minnesota)

Diocesan 
Carroll College (Helena, Montana)
Catholic Distance University (Charles Town, West Virginia)
Donnelly College (Kansas City, Kansas)
Gannon University (Erie, Pennsylvania)
Loras College (Dubuque, Iowa)
Mount St. Mary's University (Emmitsburg, Maryland)
St. Ambrose University (Davenport, Iowa)
St. Thomas University (Miami, Florida)
Seton Hall University (South Orange, New Jersey)
Thomas More University (Crestview Hills, Kentucky)
University of St. Thomas (Saint Paul, Minnesota)

Dominican (Order of Preachers) 
Albertus Magnus College (New Haven, Connecticut)
Aquinas College (Grand Rapids, Michigan)
Aquinas College (Nashville, Tennessee)
Aquinas Institute of Theology (St. Louis, Missouri)
Barry University (Miami, Florida)
Bayamón Central University (Bayamón, Puerto Rico)
Caldwell University (Caldwell, New Jersey)
Dominican School of Philosophy and Theology (Berkeley, California)
Dominican University (River Forest, Illinois)
Dominican University (Orangeburg, New York) 
Dominican University of California (San Rafael, California)
Edgewood College (Madison, Wisconsin)
Molloy University (Rockville Centre, New York)
Mount Saint Mary College (Newburgh, New York)
Ohio Dominican University  (Columbus, Ohio)
Providence College (Providence, Rhode Island)
St. Thomas Aquinas College (Sparkill, New York)
Siena Heights University (Adrian, Michigan)

Edmundite (Society of Saint Edmund) 
Saint Michael's College (Colchester, Vermont)

Franciscan

First Order of Saint Francis (Order of Friars Minor) 
Franciscan School of Theology (Oceanside, California)
Quincy University (Quincy, Illinois)
St. Bonaventure University (Olean, New York)
Siena College (Loudonville, New York)

Second Order of Saint Francis (Poor Clares)

Third Order of Saint Francis 
Alvernia University (Reading, Pennsylvania) - Bernardine Sisters of St. Francis
Alverno College (Milwaukee, Wisconsin) - School Sisters of St. Francis
Briar Cliff University (Sioux City, Iowa) - Sisters of St. Francis of Dubuque
Cardinal Stritch University (Milwaukee, Wisconsin) - Sisters of St. Francis of Assisi
Felician University (Lodi, New Jersey) - Felician Sisters
Franciscan Missionaries of Our Lady University (Baton Rouge, Louisiana) - known as Our Lady of the Lake College until 2016
Franciscan University of Steubenville (Steubenville, Ohio) - Franciscan Friars of the Third Order Regular
Hilbert College (Hamburg, New York) - Franciscan Sisters of St. Joseph
Lourdes University (Sylvania, Ohio) - Sisters of St. Francis Sylvania
Madonna University (Livonia, Michigan) - Felician Sisters of Livonia
Marian University (Indianapolis, Indiana) - Sisters of St. Francis Oldenburg
Neumann University (Aston, Pennsylvania) - Sisters of St. Francis of Philadelphia
St. Francis College (Brooklyn Heights, New York) - Franciscan Brothers of Brooklyn
Saint Francis University (Loretto, Pennsylvania) - Franciscan Friars of the Third Order Regular
University of Saint Francis (Fort Wayne, Indiana) - Sisters of St. Francis of Perpetual Adoration
University of St. Francis (Joliet, Illinois) - Sisters of St. Francis of Mary Immaculate
Villa Maria College (Buffalo, New York) - Felician Sisters
Viterbo University (La Crosse, Wisconsin) - Franciscan Sisters of Perpetual Adoration

Grey Nuns 
D'Youville University (Buffalo, New York)

Holy Cross (Congregation of Holy Cross) 
Holy Cross College (Notre Dame, Indiana) - also associated with Brothers of Holy Cross
King's College (Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania)
Our Lady of Holy Cross College (New Orleans, Louisiana)
St. Edward's University (Austin, Texas)
Saint Mary's College (Notre Dame, Indiana) - Sisters of the Holy Cross
Stonehill College (Easton, Massachusetts)
University of Notre Dame (Notre Dame, Indiana)
University of Portland (Portland, Oregon)

Jesuit (Society of Jesus) 
 
Boston College (Chestnut Hill, Massachusetts) Official site
Canisius College (Buffalo, New York) Official site
College of the Holy Cross (Worcester, Massachusetts) Official site
Creighton University (Omaha, Nebraska) Official site
Fairfield University (Fairfield, Connecticut) Official site
Fordham University (Bronx, New York, New York, New York & West Harrison, New York) Official site
Georgetown University (Washington, D.C.) Official site
Gonzaga University (Spokane, Washington) Official site
John Carroll University (University Heights, Ohio) Official site
Le Moyne College (Syracuse, New York) Official site
Loyola Marymount University (Los Angeles, California) Official site
Loyola University Chicago (Chicago, Illinois) Official site
Loyola University Maryland (Baltimore, Maryland) Official site
Loyola University New Orleans (New Orleans, Louisiana) Official site
Marquette University (Milwaukee, Wisconsin) Official site
Regis University (Denver, Colorado) Official site
Rockhurst University (Kansas City, Missouri) Official site
Saint Joseph's University (Philadelphia, Pennsylvania) Official site
Saint Louis University (St. Louis, Missouri) Official site
Saint Peter's University (Jersey City, New Jersey) Official site
Santa Clara University (Santa Clara, California) Official site
Seattle University (Seattle, Washington) Official site
Spring Hill College (Mobile, Alabama) Official site
University of Detroit Mercy (Detroit, Michigan) Official site
University of San Francisco (San Francisco, California) Official site
University of Scranton (Scranton, Pennsylvania) Official site
Xavier University (Cincinnati, Ohio) Official site

Missionaries of the Precious Blood 
Calumet College of St. Joseph (Whiting, Indiana)  Official site

Missionary Sisters of the Sacred Heart of Jesus 
Cabrini University (Radnor, Pennsylvania) Official site

Norbertine (Order of Canons Regular of Prémontré) 
St. Norbert College (De Pere, Wisconsin)  Official site

Oblates of St. Francis de Sales 
DeSales University (Center Valley, Pennsylvania) Official site

Pontifical 
The Catholic University of America (Washington, D.C.)  Official site
Pontifical Catholic University of Puerto Rico  (Ponce, Puerto Rico)  Official site

School Sisters of Notre Dame 
Mount Mary University (Milwaukee, Wisconsin)
Notre Dame of Maryland University (Baltimore, Maryland)

Sinsinawa Dominican Sisters 
Dominican University (River Forest, Illinois) Official site
Edgewood College (Madison, Wisconsin) Official site

Sisters of Charity 
Clarke University (Dubuque, Iowa), Sisters of Charity of the Blessed Virgin Mary
College of Mount Saint Vincent (Riverdale, Bronx, New York), Sisters of Charity of New York
College of Saint Elizabeth (Morristown, New Jersey), Sisters of Charity of Saint Elizabeth of New Jersey
Mount St. Joseph University (Cincinnati, Ohio), Sisters of Charity of Ohio Official site
Seton Hill University (Greensburg, Pennsylvania), Sisters of Charity of Seton Hill of Greensburg
Spalding University (Louisville, Kentucky), Sisters of Charity of Nazareth
University of the Incarnate Word (San Antonio, Texas), Sisters of Charity of the Incarnate Word
University of Saint Mary (Leavenworth, Kansas), Sisters of C