# Scott Sellars

Scott Sellars (born 27 November 1965) is an ex English football coach and former professional footballer who is ex Technical Director at Wolverhampton Wanderers.

As a player, he was a winger who made more than 500 appearances, notably playing in the Premier League with Leeds United, Newcastle United and Bolton Wanderers. He also played football with Blackburn Rovers, in Denmark with AGF Aarhus and in the Football League with Huddersfield Town and Mansfield Town. He was capped three times at England at under-21 level.

Since retirement he has previously been assistant manager at Chesterfield and academy coach at Manchester City. He has also worked as the head coach of Wolverhampton Wanderers U23's, as well as assistant head coach under caretaker manager Rob Edwards for Wolves' first team. He is the ex Technical Director at Wolverhampton Wanderers.

Playing career
After starting his career at Leeds United, Sellars established himself in the Second Division with Blackburn Rovers where he spent six years. After three play-off heartbreaks, Sellars finally found success in the 1991-92 Play-off Final which earned Rovers promotion to the newly formed Premier League. However, that would prove to be his last match for Rovers as he joined his old club Leeds who had just won the First Division.

On 24 April 1993 he scored the winning goal for the Magpies in their 1–0 win over local rivals Sunderland in Division One at St James's Park, which meant that they only needed a point from their final three games to be sure of promotion.

Coaching career
Sellars joined Manchester City as Academy coach in October 2009  after previously holding the role of assistant manager at Chesterfield in the League Two and U18s coach at Sheffield United in 2004-05. He was sacked on 11 April 2014 after a "difference of footballing opinion with the current regime" and fears over the club's homegrown quota.

In July 2014 he was appointed to the coaching staff at Wolverhampton Wanderers FC.

In March 2019 Sellars applied for, and was appointed to, the post of Head of Academy at Wolverhampton Wanderers FC, succeeding Gareth Prosser in the role.

Personal life
His son is Conor Sellars.

In January 2013, Sellars pleaded guilty to causing death by careless driving. Sellars had been driving home from work after returning from Dubai, where he had been coaching Manchester City's youth team, when he crashed his car and killed a motorcyclist. Sellars received a six-month suspended sentence and was ordered to do 300 hours of community service.

Honours

Blackburn Rovers 

 Full Members' Cup winner: 1986–87

Bolton Wanderers 

 First Division: 1996–97 

Individual
PFA Team of the Year: 1989–90 Second Division, 1991–92 Second Division

References

External links
Leeds fan profile
Leeds United history, The 100 greatest Leeds players ever - 91
PremierSoccer stats

1965 births
Living people
English men's footballers
England men's under-21 international footballers
Leeds United F.C. players
Blackburn Rovers F.C. players
Newcastle United F.C. players
Bolton Wanderers F.C. players
Huddersfield Town A.F.C. players
Mansfield Town F.C. players
Premier League players
English Football League players
Men's association football wingers
Footballers from Sheffield
Aarhus Gymnastikforening players
Sheffield United F.C. non-playing staff
Manchester City F.C. non-playing staff
Wolverhampton Wanderers F.C. non-playing staff
Chesterfield F.C. non-playing staff
English expatriate men's footballers
English expatriate sportspeople in Denmark
Expatriate men's footballers in Denmark
Danish Superliga players
Association football coaches