[A History of Chemistry — Thorpe — Gutenberg #14612]

he might frequently see the Venus (_Dactyloa Edwardsii_), as it is provincially called; a lizard much like the anoles of the houses, of a rich grass-green colour, with orange throat-disk, but much larger and fiercer; or, in the eastern parts of the island, the great iguana (_Cyclura lophoma_), with it dorsal crest like the teeth of a saw running down all its back, might be seen lying out on the branches of the trees, or playing bo-peep from a hole in the trunk; or, in the swamps and morasses of Westmoreland, the yellow galliwasp (_Celestus occiduus_), so much dreaded and abhorred, yet without reason, might be observed sitting idly in the mouth of its burrow, or feeding on the wild fruits and marshy plants that constitute its food.--_Gosse's Naturalist's Sojourn_. A SCENE IN NEW ENGLAND. I leave Boston sometimes in the evening by rail, get thirty miles off, then strike away into byways, ramble for an hour or two, and get back to the rail. I was out yesterday, and nothing can equal the colour of the foliage: if it was painted, it would look like fancy. In the course of my stroll, I came upon a lake entirely surrounded with forest, and containing, as I was informed, about four square miles of water, studded with islands varying in size from one to twenty acres. I would describe a point of view which enchanted me. I was on one side of the lake, where it is about half a mile in width: about half-way across, for the foreground of my picture, is a small island, about two acres, covered with trees, looking as if they grew out of the lake, with a central one of at least eighty feet high, and of the purest orange colour. The opposite shore is of a crescent shape, with the forest rising like an amphitheatre behind, glowing with every imaginable colour, from the intense crimson to the pale pink, and looking exactly like an enormous flower-garden stretching away to the distance, and the colour so strongly reflected in the water, that it is difficult to tell the reality from the reflection. At home in England, I would have gone far to see such scenes; but they are here at every turn. I enclose you some leaves, but the purity of the colour is gone after a few hours. I am sure many valuable additions might be made to the European stock of flowers: there are thousands of species--some extremely beautiful; but how they are propagated, or whether they could be transplanted, I cannot tell, being no horticulturist. Among the millions here, one plant would be much admired with you. It grows wild about three feet high, with long, curiously-formed leaves, and surmounted by bunches of bright scarlet blossoms, exactly like the geranium. In the course of my stroll, I came upon a genuine shanty of a new settler, full of fine children. The husband away at work--a little patch cleared for Indian corn and a few vegetables, the sturdy trees enclosing all. Truly the pair have their work before them, but they have likewise hope and comfort. I chatted a little while with the wife, a genuine specimen of the Anglo-Saxon race--clean, industrious, and hopeful: left home to avoid being starved, and sat down here, in rude comfort, with her ruddy children growing up about her--to be a joy and a support, instead of the drag and vexation they would have proved at home.--_Private Letter from an English Artist settled at Boston_. WOMEN. Christianity freed woman, because it opened to her the long-closed world of spiritual knowledge. Sublime and speculative theories, hitherto confined to the few, became, when once they were quickened by faith, things for which thousands were eager to die. Simple women meditated in their homes on questions which had long troubled philosophers in the groves of academies. They knew this well; and felt that from her who had sat at the feet of the Master, listening to the divine teaching, down to the poorest slave who heard the tidings of spiritual liberty, they had all become daughters of a great and immortal faith. Of that faith women were the earliest adherents, disciples, and martyrs. Women followed Jesus, entertained the wandering apostles, worshipped in the catacombs, or died in the arena. The _Acts of the Apostles_ bear record to the charity of Dorcas and the hospitality of Lydia; and tradition has preserved the memory of Praxedes and Pudentiana, daughters of a Roman senator, in whose house the earliest Christian meetings were held in Rome.--_Women of Christianity, by Julia Kavanagh_. 'WHARE'ER THERE'S A WILL THERE IS ALWAYS A WAY.' Langsyne, when I first gaed to schule, I was glaiket, In books and in learning nae pleasure had I; And when for my fauts wi' the taws I was paiket, 'I canna do better,' was aye my reply. 'Deed Rab,' quo my mither, 'for daffn' and playin' There 's nocht ye can manage by nicht or by day; But this let me tell ye, and mind what I'm sayin'-- Whare'er there's a will there is always a way. 'Just look at our preacher, when but a bit callan, The ills o' cauld poortith he aft had to dree, But to better his lot the poor chiel aye was willin'-- At schule and at wark ever eident was he: Sage books he wad read, and their truths he wad cherish, And earnestly sprauchle up learning's steep brae; And noo he's Mess John o' his ain native parish-- Sae whare there's a will there is always a way. 'And man, if ye saw how his manse is bedecket! Ilk room's like a palace, it's plenished sae fine; And then wi' the best in the land he's respecket, And aft wi' My Lord is invited to dine. O Rab, then, be active; frae him tak' example; His case speaks mair powerfu' than ocht I can say; And soon ye will find that your talents are ample; For whare there's a will there is always a way. 'What though we are cotters?--the poorest may flourish, And wha wadna rise wi' the glorious few? Industry works wonders--its spirit aye nourish-- It isna the drone gathers hinney, I trew. Then onward, my laddie! ye canna regret it; What wrecks and what tears have been caused by delay! If noble your wish is, press on, ye will get it! For whare there's a will there is always a way.' Thus spak my auld mither: ilk word seemed a sermon, But just rather warldly, as ane micht alloo; But, haith, it inspired me, and made me determine To haud to the _lair_ and keep _progress_ in view. Sae I tried ilka project instruction to gather: When herdin' the sheep for our laird, Ringan Gray, The Bible and Bunyan, I read 'mang the heather-- Aye whare there's a will there is always a way. But my father he dee'd, and to help my auld mither I noo had to struggle wi' hardship and care; And aften I thocht I wad stick a'thegither, But something within me said: 'Never despair!' At last I grew bein, for I toiled late and early, Syne to College I gaed, and was made a D.D. And noo I'm Mess John in the Kirk o' Glenfairly-- Sae whare there's a will there is always a way. The manse--but I shouldna wi' vainity crack o't-- Is as cozie a beil as a body could see; Hauf-hid 'mang auld trees, wi' braw parks at the back o't, Whare lambs, 'mang the gowans, are sporting wi' glee. I've got a bit wife too, a rich winsome lady-- In short, I hae a' that a mortal could hae: Sae onward, ye youths! as my auld mither said aye-- Whare'er there's a will there is always a way. A. M'KAY. * * * * * Printed and Published by W. and R. CHAMBERS, High Street, Edinburgh. Also sold by W.S. ORR, Amen Corner, London; D.N. CHAMBERS, 55 West Nile Street, Glasgow; and J. M'GLASHAN, 50 Upper Sackville Street, Dublin.--Advertisements for Monthly Parts are requested to be sent to MAXWELL & Co., 31 Nicholas Lane, Lombard Street, London, to whom all applications respecting their insertion must be made.