# Rex Trailer

Rex Trailer (September 16, 1928 – January 9, 2013) was a Boston-based regional television personality, broadcast pioneer, cowboy and Country and Western recording artist. He is best known as the host of the children's television show Boomtown which initially ran from 1956 through 1974.

Early life
Rex Trailer grew up just outside Fort Worth, Texas. He spent his summers on his grandfather’s fifty-acre quarter horse ranch in nearby Thurber, Texas. There at age four or five Trailer rode his first horse, which was named "Bamboo". 

The hired hands on the ranch were rodeo cowboys. One of these men taught him trick roping, one taught him how to handle a bull whip, and another taught him how to play the guitar. Trailer recalls, "All those cowboys were good at what they taught me, but after I learned each (skill), I was the only one of the bunch who could do all three!" By age 11, the student had begun performing with his mentors in Texas rodeos. Trailer's grandfather only warned the cowboys that they shouldn't let him ride "rough stock", meaning the broncos and bulls. 
 
As a young man in Texas, Trailer found other opportunities to employ his skills. At age 16 he started his own band, "The Ramblin' Rustlers", which performed locally. "I was always a ham who loved to perform", he said. "I could always play guitar, sing and tell stories." Trailer also began calling square dances.

At 18 years old, Trailer left Texas for the national rodeo circuit. "I traveled the country a little bit", Trailer reminisced. "The audiences got a kick out of a teenager being out there and trick riding and roping and bull whips and singing."

In 1948, Trailer was working in the traveling rodeo when he met Western movie star Gabby Hayes backstage at Madison Square Garden. That meeting proved to be life-changing. An impressed Hayes hired him to work at his Catskills summer ranch for kids as entertainment director. Trailer was the oldest child in a large family, and so was already practiced at engaging the young ones. Hayes, recognizing Trailer's rare natural talent over the course of that summer, encouraged him to break into the fledgling world of children's television as an on-air personality.

Television pioneer
Around 1947 Trailer, not yet out of his teens, had gone to work for the DuMont Television Network in New York City. He started out as a scenery painter, but quickly rose to the position of production coordinator, and soon after to assistant director. Then in 1949, acting on Hayes' advice to seek on-air work, he responded to a casting call for a cowboy who could do stunts; Trailer overwhelmed the competition and became the host of the network's Oky Doky Ranch (formerly The Adventures of Oky Doky). The show featured Trailer as a cowboy and Oky Doky, a cowboy puppet, operated by Dayton Allen.

The Oky Doky series was successful, but it ended when its production company went bankrupt. Dayton Allen went to NBC and soon joined the cast of the nascent Howdy Doody show. Meanwhile, Trailer heard that the Westinghouse TV station in Philadelphia (WPTZ) needed a host for a Western-style children's show. Trailer and his horse "Gold Rush" moved to Philadelphia and hosted a number of television shows from 1950 until 1956. "Ridin’ the Trail with Rex Trailer" featured him as the host for movie Westerns on Saturday mornings, with some live action segments featuring Trailer spliced in. "They sort of built me into the movie," Trailer explained. "The kids loved it because they never knew where or when I was going to show up in the action." He also had a daily 15-minute program featuring songs, games, dances, lore and lessons. This was the only one of the shows that was just Trailer and the kids; called "Hi-Noon with Rex Trailer," it ran from 1950 to 1955, achieving high ratings as it entertained the kids who came home from school for lunch. "Rex Trailer's Ranch House" was a half-hour variety show on Saturday nights. With its self-explanatory title, "Saddlebag O' Songs" was yet another show he hosted in that era.

Recording artist
While his television career was continuing to advance, Trailer concurrently found success in recording Country and Western Music for ABC-Paramount Records, among other labels. At one time, around 1950, he recorded with Bill Haley and his Saddlemen, who gained fame later as Bill Haley and His Comets. In 1955, "Cowboys Don't Cry" and a song later used regularly on the Boomtown show, "Hoofbeats", were released together in the 78 rpm and 45 rpm vinyl record formats. Trailer released at least two 33 rpm 12" vinyl albums, as "Rex Trailer and the Playboys", one titled Country and Western in 1960 and one titled Good Old Country Music, released by Crown records (CLP 5484 monaural), date unknown. Another album with some overlap in playlists also exists, by "Rex Trailer and his Cow Hands", titled Western Favorites, which was released in 1961 on Spin-O-Rama records.

In his later years, Trailer offered a CD through his website, called All the Best. "Boomtown", "Hoofbeats", "Cowboys Don't Cry", "Pow Wow the Pony" and other songs from the 1950s and 1960s were included, along with some more recently recorded songs. Trailer recorded introductions for each track.

Trailer was a featured guest on the 2002 eponymous Nate Gibson and the Gashouse Gang album. He played and sang on two songs written by Gibson, "The Remote to the T.V." and "Immaculate Confection," the latter being a tribute to Necco Wafers candy.

The Boomtown/Boston years
The Philadelphia station that employed Trailer was sold to NBC. The young star, with short time remaining on his contract to Westinghouse Broadcasting, was presented a choice of two Westinghouse station cities as his next stop: Cleveland or Boston. In 1956, with a wealth of broadcasting experience and not yet out of his twenties, Rex Trailer chose the move to Boston to host a new weekend-morning children's show Boomtown on WBZ-TV. Trailer was familiar with Boston from his performing as an intermission act singing western songs and calling square dances years earlier when he travelled with big bands who played the Copley Plaza Hotel.

The show, named by Rex after the title of a Clark Gable film he saw on TV at the time, had a format which combined elements of the other shows he had done. Though the original commitment was only for a few months, this series proved to be his greatest success, airing on WBZ through 1974. Boomtown established Trailer as a major (and enduring) local celebrity within the signal of Boston's TV Channel 4. Trailer performed songs while playing guitar, and showed off his authentic cowboy skills with horse-riding tricks, rope tricks, skilled use of the bull-whip, and shooting (though he banished weapons from the show after RFK’s assassination in 1968). He led the studio audience of children in sing-alongs and contests of skill, and introduced cartoons and other children's programming segments. The young viewers "adored him for his consistent kindness and competence." Trailer was aided by many guests, such as John MacFarland (for "Critter Corner"), and by his various sidekicks over the years, including "Pablo" from 1956 to 1967 (played by actor Richard Kilbride), then "Cactus Pete" from 1967 to 1969 (played by Terrance Currier), and "Sgt. Billy" (played by actor Bill O'Brien).

Rex Trailer's fame, good name, and crowd-pleasing talents made him a dependable draw at his many personal appearances in the area. He was also able to team with a local travel agency in chaperoning children on an annual series of large-scale school-vacation trips to California tourist attractions.

Trailer was recognized as a strong advocate for children with disabilities. In 1961, Trailer (and Gold Rush) led an actual wagon train across the state of Massachusetts ending at the State House in Boston, to call public attention to the needs of the mentally retarded, and the organization The Arc (then called the Association for Retarded Citizens). Trailer insisted on including children with disabilities in his show, and is said to have been one of the first to do so. In addition, Trailer also encouraged his young fans to hold neighborhood charity fund-raisers called "Backyard Carnivals Against Dystrophy", offering how-to kits on air. As a result of such efforts, Trailer came to be perceived as the "cowboy with a conscience" on and off the air.

Shooting live three-hour shows in the Brighton studio every Saturday and Sunday morning left Trailer little opportunity at that time to contemplate his place in television history. "We just did it. It was a blast," he said, adding that the show was the most enjoyable thing he'd ever done, because its genuineness made the fun contagious. "We were doing educational TV before there was educational TV," Trailer asserted. "Children need role models. I wanted them to understand their obligation to take care of each other."

When Boomtown ended on WBZ-TV, Trailer briefly put his Western costume aside and hosted