Chemistry Research Paper

Title: Fagonia cretica-Mediated Synthesis of Manganese Oxide (MnO2) Nanomaterials Their Characterization and Evaluation of Their Bio-Catalytic and Enzyme Inhibition Potential for Maintaining Flavor and Texture in Apples

Abstract:
The apple is the most widely used fruit globally. Apples are more prone to fungal spoilage, which leads to browning and subsequent changes in their flavor and texture. Browning is also caused by the tyrosinase enzyme. By inhibiting tyrosinase initiation and fungal spoilage in fruits, the natural flavor and texture of fruits can be maintained. Biogenic NPs can act as antioxidants to inhibit tyrosinase and due to oxidative stress, it also catalyzes the deformation of fungal hyphae and spores. Nanotechnology is a research hotspot that has gained considerable interest due to its potential inferences in biosciences and food preservation technology. The present study aims to use biomass from the Fagonia cretica to create bio-inspired manganese oxide MnO2 NPs and to evaluate its bio-catalytic potential for antifungal anti-browning through the inhibition of tyrosinase and its antioxidant potential for preserving apple flavor and texture. The green synthesized nanoparticles were extensively analyzed using UV spectroscopy, XRD, SEM, EDX, and FTIR techniques. Moreover, the synthesized manganese oxide nanoparticles (MnO2 NPs) were evaluated for their bio-catalytic potential as anti-fungal and anti-spoiling agents. The values of antifungal activity among all the samples were 14.2 ± 86 mm, 8.9 ± 6.0 mm, 17.7 ± 1.26, and 20.7 ± 4.38 mm for Penicillium expansum, Monilinia fructigena, Penicillium chrysogenum, and Aspergillus oryzae at 200 µg/well, respectively. Moreover, the biogenic NPs were evaluated for their anti-browning potential through the inhibition of tyrosinase. MnO2 NPs have been shown to have considerable inhibitory effects on tyrosinase up to 64.8 ± 0.16 at 200 µg/mL and (27.2 ± 0.58) at 25 µg/mL. Biogenic MnO2 NPs can also act as antioxidants to inhibit tyrosinase and fungal growth by the formation of free radicals that damage the fungal hyphae and, as a result, slow down browning. The maximum DPPH free radical scavenging activity was 74.5 ± 0.39% at 200 µg/mL, and the minimum was 12.4 ± 0.27 at 25 µg/mL. The biogenic MnO2 NPs are biocompatible and play a potent role in maintaining the flavor and texture of apples.