# Eastview Mall

Eastview Mall, located in Victor, New York (near Rochester, New York), is an upscale indoor shopping center owned and managed by Wilmorite Properties. The mall features JCPenney, Macy's, Von Maur, and Dick's House of Sports. 

Eastview is located just off New York State Thruway (Interstate 90) Exit 45 on New York State Route 96. This  shopping center has 144 stores and services including some that are unique to the Rochester-area market. Eastview Mall serves the entire Metro-Rochester, NY region, attracting customers from throughout Western NY, as well as visitors to the nearby Finger Lakes Vineyards and resort lake towns.

History
Eastview Mall was built in 1971. Original tenants were Sibley's and Sears. An expansion a year later added McCurdy's.
It was expanded in 1995 with the addition of a wing anchored by Lord & Taylor and JCPenney, and then expanded once more at the main entrance in 2003. In November 2011, it was announced that department store retailer The Bon-Ton would shutter its location. It was later announced that upscale department store retailer Von Maur would be building a 140,000 square foot outpost in its place.

In 2017, a Tesla supercharging station was added in the mall parking lot. 

In August, 2018, it was announced the Sears in this location would close as part of an ongoing plan to phase out its brick-and-mortar stores. Plans were announced to develop Dicks House of Sports a new concept by Dick's Sporting Goods. Plans for a skating rink were later announced to be attached to the store.

In August 2020, Lord & Taylor announced that it would close all of its retail stores, citing the COVID-19 pandemic. Wilmorite, the mall development firm, proposed that the previous Lord & Taylor outpost be reconstructed for an unnamed "environmentally friendly home goods and clothing retailer," as well as a family owned grocery.

References

Shopping malls in New York (state)
Buildings and structures in Monroe County, New York
Shopping malls established in 1971