Chemistry Research Paper

Title: Ideality in Context: Motivations for Total Synthesis

Abstract:
Total synthesis-the ultimate proving ground for the invention and field-testing of new methods, exploration of disruptive strategies, final structure confirmation, and empowerment of medicinal chemistry on natural products-is one of the oldest and most enduring subfields of organic chemistry. In the early days of this field, its sole emphasis focused on debunking the concept of vitalism, that living organisms could create forms of matter accessible only to them. Emphasis then turned to the use of synthesis to degrade and reconstitute natural products to establish structure and answer questions about biosynthesis. It then evolved to not only an intricate science but also a celebrated form of art. As the field progressed, a more orderly and logical approach emerged that served to standardize the process. These developments even opened up the possibility of computer-aided design using retrosynthetic analysis. Finally, the elevation of this field to even higher levels of sophistication showed that it was feasible to synthesize any natural product, regardless of complexity, in a laboratory. During this remarkable evolution, as has been reviewed elsewhere, many of the principles and methods of organic synthesis were refined and galvanized. In the modern era, students and practitioners are still magnetically attracted to this field due to the excitement of the journey, the exhilaration of creation, and the opportunity to invent solutions to challenges that still persist. Contemporary total synthesis is less concerned with demonstrating a proof of concept or a feasible approach but rather aims for increased efficiency, scalability, and even "ideality." In general, the molecules of Nature are created biosynthetically with levels of practicality that are still unimaginable using the tools of modern synthesis. Thus, as the community strives to do more with less (i.e., innovation), total synthesis is now focused on a pursuit for simplicity rather than a competition for maximal complexity. In doing so, the practitioner must devise outside-the-box strategies supplemented with forgotten or newly invented methods to reduce step count and increase the overall economy of the approach. The downstream applications of this pursuit not only empower students who often go on to apply these skills in the private sector but also lead to new discoveries that can impact numerous disciplines of societal importance. This account traces some select case studies from our laboratory over the past five years that vividly demonstrate our own motivation for dedicating so much effort to this classic field. In aiming for simplicity, we focus on the elusive goal of achieving ideality, a term that, when taken in the proper context, can serve as a guiding light to point the way to furthering progress in organic synthesis.