[The Electron Theory of Matter — Gutenberg #10015]

of a chip flying up and taking off part of my obnoxious nose. If there were no women around, I might escape notice out there. But if one happened to come along, I should be obliged to leave, for her eyes would ferret out my unfortunate peculiarities, and all my wounds would be opened afresh. Sometimes I think there is no spot on the globe where I would be welcomed; and I feel inclined to commit some desperate deed, that I may be arrested and confined out of the sight of man and woman-kind, until I am aged and bent enough to be presentable. * * * * * OUR PORTFOLIO. Passing down Chatham street the other day, PUNCHINELLO stopped in front of a window where hung a highly-colored engraving of an Austrian sovereign engaged in the Easter ceremony of washing the feet of twelve old men and women. An Irishman at our side, who had been puzzling some time to comprehend the problem thus submitted to him, finally broke out: "An' may I ax ye, misther, to be koind enough to exshplain phat in the wurruld that owld roosther's doin'?" pointing to the figure of the kneeling monarch. "He is washing the feet of the ladies and gentlemen," mildly put in PUNCHINELLO. "Bedad," says PAT, "don't I see that for meself; but phatis he doin' it for?" "It is a ceremony of the Catholic Church," PUNCHINELLO explained, "typical of the washing of the feet of the Twelve Apostles." PAT eyed PUNCHINELLO askance with an expression which plainly enough said that he did not believe we had been reared to tell the truth strictly upon all occasions, and then added: "Bad cess to your manners, then, don't I know betther nor that; for haven't I been in the church these forty years, and sorrow a sowl ever washed _me_ feet!" * * * * * [Illustration: THE SITUATION IN EUROPE. INTO "BIZ" LOUIS NAP HE IS GOING, TO PAY OFF THE DEBTS THAT HE'S OWING; DETERMINED THAT HE WILL MAKE _his_ MARK, BY TAKING THE CHANGE OUT OF BISMARCK.] * * * * * FROM AN ANXIOUS MOTHER TO HER DAUGHTER. [Who is at a Watering Place.] NEW YORK, July 12, 1870. MY DEAR DAUGHTER: How are you getting on, dear? Well, I hope, for you know I _do_ want to get you off, desperately. Thirty-seven, and still on my hands! Mr. GUSHER, of the Four-hundred-and-thirty-ninth Avenue, goes down next Saturday. He will hunt you up. Mr. GUSHER is a nice man--so sympathetic and kind; and has such a lovely moustache. Besides, my dear SOPHY, he has oceans of stamps. Quite true, my child, he hasn't much of anything else, but girls at thirty-seven must not have too sharp eyes, nor see too much. Do, dear, try and fix him if you can. Put all your little artifices into effect. Walk, if possible, by moonlight, and alone; that is, with him. Talk, as you know you can, of the sweets of love and the delights of home. Dwell on the felicities of love in a cottage, and if he doesn't see it, dilate on the article in a brown-stone front, with marble steps. Picture to him in the most glowing terms the joys of the fireside, with fond you by his side. If he hints that a fireside in July is slightly tepid, thoughtfully suggest that it is merely a figure of speech, and introduce an episode of cream to cool it. Quote vehemently from TENNYSON, and LONGFELLOW, and Mrs. BROWNING. Bring the artillery of your eyes to bear squarely on the mark. Remember that thirty-seven years and an anxious mother are steadily looking down upon you. Cut SMIRCH. SMIRCH is a worthless fellow. Would you believe it? his father makes boot-pegs for a living. The house of WIGGINS cannot consort with the son of one who pegs along in life in this manner! Never. Banish SMIRCH. Don't let SMIRCH even look at your footprints on the beach. Then there is Mr. BLUSTER. What is he? Who? Impertinent puppy! Pretended to own a corner-house on the Twenty-fifth Avenue, and wanted to know how _I_ should like it? Like it? I should like to see him in Sing-Sing! _He_ own a house?--a brass foundry more like, and that in his face! Keep a sharp eye on BLUSTER and his blarney. He's what our neighbor GINGER calls a "beat," whatever that is--a squash, no doubt. Don't spare any pains, my dear, for a market. I was only twenty-six when I married the late lamented Mr. WIGGINS. And a dear good man he was--only I wish he had paid his bills at the corner groceries. How he _did_ love, my dear--that favorite demijohn in the corner! And then when he came home at night with such a smile--he'd been taking them all day. Don't fail to catch somebody. GUSHER, depend, is the man. Money is everything. Never mind what he hasn't got just under the hat. It is the pocket you must aim at. What is life and society--what New York--without money? Say you love him to distraction. Declare your existence is bound up in his. (Greenback binding.) Throw yourself at his feet at the opportune moment, and victory must be yours. Impale him at all hazards. Remember you are thirty-seven and well on in life. Your own loving MARIA ANASTASIA WIGGINS. * * * * * THE PUMP. An Old Story with a Modern Application. Like rifts of sunshine, her tresses Waved over her shoulders bare, And she flitted as light o'er the meadows, As an angel in the air. "O maid of the country, rest thee This village pump beside, And here thou shalt fill thy pitcher, Like REBECCA, the well beside!" But a voice from yonder window Through my shuddering senses ran, And these were its words: "MARIA-R! MA-RIA-R! don't-mind-that-man!" * * * * * [Illustration: LUCIFERS LITTLE GAME WITH HIS ROYAL PUPPETS.] * * * * * HIRAM GREEN'S EXPERIENCE AS AN EDITOR. Lively Times in the Editorial Sanctum.--The "Lait Gustise" handled Roughly. "Whooray! Whooray!" I exclaimed, rushin' into the kitchen door, one mornin' last spring, and addressin' Mrs. GREEN. "I've been invited to edit the _Skeensboro Fish Horn_. Fame, madam, awaits your talented pardner." "Talented Lunkhead, you mean," said this interestin' femail; "you'd look sweet editin' a noose paper. So would H. WARD BEECHER dancin' 'shoo-fly' along with DAN BRYANT. Don't make a fool of yourself if you know anything, HIRAM, and respect your family." The above conversation was the prelude to my first and last experience in editin' a country paper. The editor of the "Fish Horn" went on a pleasure trip, to plant a rich ant who had died and left him some cash. Durin' his absence I run his paper for him. Seatin' my form on top of the nail keg, with shears and paste brush I prepared to show this ere community how to run a noosepaper. I writ the follerin' little squibs and put 'em in my first issue. "If a sertin lite complexion man wouldn't run his hands down into sugar barrels so often, when visitin' grosery stores, it would be money in the pocket of the Skeensboro merchants"-- "Query. Wonder how a farmer in this town, whose name we will not rite, likes burnin' wood from his nabor's wood-pile?"-- "We would advise a sertin toothles old made to leave off paintin' her cheeks, and stop slanderin' her nabors. If she does so, she will be a more interestin' femail to have around."-- "Stop Thief.--If that Deekin, who trades at one of our grocery stores, and helps himself to ten cents worth of tobacker while buyin' one cents worth of pipes, will devide up his custom, it would be doing the square thing by the man who has kept him in tobacker for several years." These articles was like the bustin' of a lot of bombshells in this usually quiet boro. The Deekins called a church meetin', and played a game of old sledge, to see who would call and demand satisfaction for the insult. As they all smoked, they couldn't tell who was hit, as their tobacker bill was small all around. Deekin PERKINS got beat when they come to "saw off." Said this pious man: "If old GREEN don't chaw his words, I'll bust his gizzard." The farmers met at SIMMINSES store. After tryin' on the garment about steelin' wood, it was hard to decide who the coat fit the best, but each one made up his mind to pay off an old grudge and "pitch into the Lait Gustise." All the old mades met together in the village milliner shop, where the Sore-eye-siss society held meetin's once a week, and their false teeth trembled like a rattlesnake's tail, when they read my artickle about old mades. It was finally resolved by this anshient lot of caliker to "stir up old GREEN." Headed by SARY YOUMANS, the crossest old made in the U.S., and all armed with broom-sticks and darnin'-needles, the door of my editorial offis was busted open, and the whole caboodle of wimmen, famishin' for my top hair, entered. They foamed at the mouth like a pack of dissappinted Orpheus--C--Kerrs, as they brandished their wepins over my bald head. "Squire GREEN," sed a maskaline lookin' specimen of time worn caliker, holdin' a copy of the _Fish Horn_ in her bony fingers, "did you rite that 'ere?" "Wall," sed I, feelin' somewhat riled at the sassy crowd, "s'posen I did or didn't, what on it?" "We are goin' to visit the wrath of a down-trodden rase upon your frontispiece, that's what we is, d'ye hear, old Pilgarlick?" said the exasperated 16th Amendmenter, as she brought down her gingham umbrella over my shoulders. At this they all rushed for me. With paste-brush and shears I kept them off, until somebody pushed me over a woman who had got tripped up, when the army of infuriated Amazons piled onto my aged form. This round dident last more'n two minutes, for as soon as they got me down, they all stuck their confounded needles into me, and then left me lookin' more like a porkupine than a human bein'. I hadent more'n had time to pull out a few quarts of needles, before in walks 2 big strappin' farmers. "Old man, we've come for you," said one of 'em. "We'll larn you to slander honest fokes." At this he let fly his rite bute at my cote skirts. I was home-sick, you can jest bet. Then t'other chap let me have it. "Down stairs with him," sed they both, and down I went, pooty lively for an old man. Just as I got to the bottom I lit on a man's head.