# Santa Monica neighborhoods

The western border of Santa Monica, California, is the 3-mile (4.8 km) stretch of Santa Monica Bay. On its other sides, the city is bordered by various districts of Los Angeles: the northwestern border is Pacific Palisades, the eastern border is Brentwood north of Wilshire Boulevard and West Los Angeles south of Wilshire, the northeastern border is generally San Vicente Boulevard up to the Riviera Country Club, the southwestern border is Venice Beach and the southern border is with West Los Angeles and Mar Vista.

Santa Monica Canyon 

Part of the Santa Monica Post Office code 90402 but outside the municipal boundaries, Santa Monica Canyon is an adjacent neighborhood is named for the historic land grant Rancho Boca de Santa Monica. The boundary between Santa Monica and Pacific Palisades in this area is Adelaide Drive.

La Mesa Drive / North of San Vicente 

San Vicente Boulevard is the northernmost major street in Santa Monica. The streets north of San Vicente are generally considered a subsection of the North of Montana neighborhood, but distinguished because of La Mesa Drive. North of San Vicente the streets are La Mesa Drive, La Mesa Way, Gale Place (developed by one of the area's prolific post-depression contractors, Cecil Gale), Woodacres Road, Esparta Way, Ermont Place, Foxtail Drive, Larkin Place, Winnett Place and Adelaide Place. This is part of the "North of Montana"  90402 zip code.

North of Montana Avenue 
South of San Vicente and north of Montana Avenue consist of larger family homes of varying styles and age on larger lots. It is one of the most expensive areas in the Westside of Los Angeles. The streets in this portion of Santa Monica are San Vicente Boulevard, Georgina Avenue, Marguerita Avenue, Alta Avenue, Carlyle Avenue, Brentwood Terrace, Ocean Avenue, and the "numbered streets" 4th Street, 7th Street, Lincoln Boulevard (where 8th Street would have been), 9th Street, 10th Street, 11th Street, 12th Street, Euclid Street (which is where 13th Street would have been), 14th Street, 15th Street (the dividing line for Franklin versus Roosevelt Elementary schools), 16th Street, 17th Street (which is where Gillette's Regent Square tract begins) 18th Street, 19th Street, 20th Street, 21st Street, 21st Place (this is Gillette's cleaver extra street created by eliminating five alleys and narrowing streets, where the Gillette Regent Square tract ends and where 21st and a Half Street would have been), 22nd Street, 23rd Street, 24th Street, 25th Street and 26th Street. Most of the lot sizes are  on 50' X 150' lots. The South of San Vicente, North of Montana streets provide an understated conventional walkable play-in-street feel. Among the streets south of San Vicente, the streets west of 7th Street are coveted for their proximity to Palisades Park on the bluffs overlooking the Pacific Ocean and wide streets with stately homes on deep 100' foot wide lots. The Gillette's Regent Square tract, developed by King Gillette - the razor blade manufacturer, are 9,000 square feet on 60' x 150' lots. The Gillette Regent Square section is coveted by potential home buyers for the larger homes allowed under the very restrictive zoning laws, wider lots and mature street trees.

San Vicente Boulevard is the northernmost major street in Santa Monica. The streets North of San Vicente are generally considered a subsection of the North of Montana neighborhood, but distinguished because of La Mesa Drive. Homes on La Mesa Drive are among the most expensive in Los Angeles County and often contain views of the Riviera Country Club with peeks of the Pacific Ocean or picturesque Santa Monica Canyon. La Mesa Drive is one of the least known in the city. It's planted with a dense canopy of rare Moreton Bay fig trees, making the street a picturesque walking location. Twenty blocks closer to the ocean, the Santa Monica Steps at 4th Street are a popular set of 189 very steep steps that lead down into the canyon.  Rather than being used as a convenient direct route from Canyon Charter School to Adelaide Drive, they are more often utilized for intense workouts and are an excellent place for spotting sweating celebrities. Streets north of San Vicente are usually short and contain gated estates. North of San Vicente the streets are La Mesa Drive, La Mesa Way, Gale Place (developed by one of the area's prolific post-Depression contractors, Cecil Gale), Woodacres Road, Esparta Way, Ermont Place, Foxtail Drive, Larkin Place, Winnett Place and Adelaide Drive. This is part of the "North of Montana"  90402 zip code.

West of 7th and East of Ocean Avenue is the neighborhood noted by 100' x 220' foot lots, some of which have been subdivided into 50 X 220. Many of Santa Monica's historically significant land-marked homes are located here, and a few are designated as such in the National Registry.

North of Montana is served by two highly regarded public elementary schools - Franklin School for the residents on 15th through the west side of 26th, and Roosevelt for the families on 14th Street down to Ocean Avenue.

During Halloween, the streets near 16th Street and Georgina Avenue are packed with trick-or-treaters, partiers and gawkers because residents go all-out in decorating their homes for the holiday. North of Montana is the only Santa Monica neighborhood with a privately funded 24-hour-a-day patrol service managed by the Santa Monica Protective Association. The neighborhood is not represented by an association, but there is an active organized no-growth group.

North of Montana (Alfred A. Knopf, Inc.) is also the title of the first book in the FBI Special Agent Ana Grey mystery series, written by Santa Monica resident, April Smith. Continuously in print since 1994, North of Montana became notorious for being a fast-paced thriller that also examines complex relationships between upper-class white women and the Hispanic caretakers of their children.

Montana Avenue 
Montana Avenue is home to two elementary schools, a public library, and a mile of about 150 upscale stores, banks, real estate offices and restaurants. There are several independently owned cafes and coffee shop as well as nationally known brands here. The businesses on this street are generally boutiques, along with two national markets. Montana Avenue is also honored with the 1939 landmark Aero Theater, built by Donald Douglas Company as a continuous around-the-clock movie theater. This is now a repertory theater operated by The American Cinematheque.  Every December and June the Montana Avenue Association hosts a neighborhood-wide sale and festival where stores give holiday discounts, give free samples of food, or have clearance sales to make room for a new season of clothing. Montana Avenue is home to Balloon Celebrations, a place for modern party decor & Luxe Balloon Bouquets. Montana Avenue is served by the 18 line of the Big Blue Bus.

Northeast Neighbors 
North of Wilshire, but South of Montana Avenue, is a primarily residential neighborhood.  Laid out on a consistent grid of numbered streets, there are many mid-sized homes and condominiums.  On its westernmost end this neighborhood includes a number of well-preserved Victorian duplex houses otherwise unique in the city.  Smaller Craftsman era bungalows line the east-west avenues like Idaho, Washington, and California.  At the corner of Washington Avenue and 22nd is the original Gehry House, a deconstructionist masterpiece that signaled a dramatic shift in Frank Gehry's architectural style.  Real estate is exceptionally expensive in this neighborhood, albeit slightly less expensive than the more stately properties north of Montana. The neighborhood is represented by the Northeast Neighbors neighborhood association. www.neneighbors.org

Ocean Avenue 
Ocean Avenue is a major thoroughfare in Santa Monica that runs along Palisades Park, with a view of the Pacific Ocean. Ocean Avenue real estate is highly prized, as all residences have a full view of the beach and Pacific Ocean, some from Palos Verdes all the way to Malibu.

South of California Ave are several luxury hotels such as Shore Hotel, Ocean View Hotel, Shutters, Casa del Mar, The Shangri-La, The Georgian Hotel, The Huntley, The Fairmont Miramar, Hotel Oceana, The Viceroy and Loews, restaurants, businesses, and homes. The Santa Monica Pier is located at Ocean Avenue and Colorado Avenue.

Downtown Santa Monica 
Downtown Santa Monica is located south of Wilshire Blvd. The streets that make up downtown Santa Monica are Wilshire Boulevard, Arizona Avenue, Santa Monica Boulevard, Broadway, and Colorado Avenue from 2nd street to 14th street. The Third Street Promenade and Santa Monica Place are located in the heart of downtown. Many restaurants, tourist sites and hotels are in downtown Santa Monica.

Midtown Santa Monica 
Comprising most of the 90404 zip code Midtown Santa Monica stretches from 14th street to Centinela at its westernmost and easternmost extremities, and Wilshire Boulevard to Olympi