# Pickup artist

Pickup artists (PUA) are a movement of men whose goal is seduction and sexual success. They often self-identify as the seduction community or the pickup community. The community exists through various channels, including internet newsletters, blogs, marketing (such as banner ads, seminars, and one-on-one coaching), forums and groups, and local clubs known as "lairs“.

The rise of "seduction science", "game", or "studied charisma" has been attributed to modern forms of dating and social norms between sexes which have developed from a perceived increase in the equality of women in western society and changes to traditional gender roles.  Commentators in the media have described "game" as sexist or misogynistic.

History
Modern pickup artist practice dates at least to 1970, with the publication of How to Pick Up Girls! by Eric Weber. However, one self-described "picker-upper of women" preceding Weber was rational emotive psychotherapist Albert Ellis, who wrote The Art of Erotic Seduction in 1967 with Roger Conway. It is a how-to guide for men that encourages them to meet women through the "pickup".

In 1991, Ross Jeffries taught workshops, promoted a collection of neuro-linguistic programming (NLP) techniques called "speed seduction" (SS), and published a short book of his techniques, How to Get the Women You Desire into Bed. Other exponents established themselves in roughly the same era but lacked contact with each other. In 1994, Lewis De Payne, then a student of Jeffries, founded the newsgroup alt.seduction.fast (ASF). This then spawned a network of other Internet discussion forums, email lists, blogs, and sites where seduction techniques could be exchanged.

In the late 1990s, Clifford Lee began his Cliff's List Seduction Letter as a central independent voice of the community.

Other pickup teachers emerged with competing methods, and became known within this community as "seduction gurus" or "gurus".

The community was brought to greater mainstream awareness with the 1999 drama film Magnolia, in which Tom Cruise portrayed a charismatic yet embittered and emotionally-troubled pickup guru who was loosely modeled on Ross Jeffries.

In 2005, journalist Neil Strauss published The Game: Penetrating the Secret Society of Pickup Artists, an exposé of the PUA community. The Game reached the New York Times Bestseller List and made pickup techniques known to a wider audience. The community was further publicized with the television show The Pick Up Artist (2007–2008) on VH1.

Within the community, seduction lairs are underground meeting groups for men devoted to the study of obtaining sex taught in the seduction community. Lairs first began as study groups soon after Ross Jeffries released his first products and began teaching sometime in the early 1990s. A "lair" typically involves two elements: an online forum and group meetings.

Concepts 
Many pickup artists work on their "game" by improving their understanding of psychology, their confidence, and self-esteem ─ collectively termed "inner game" ─ and their social skills and physical appearance (physical fitness, fashion sense, grooming) ─ collectively termed the "outer game". Many members of the community believe that one's "game" is refined through regular practice, with the idea that the abilities needed to interact in this way with women can be improved.

Pickup artists have a set of acronyms and jargon for describing male-female dynamics and social interaction.  For example, "average frustrated chump" (AFC) is a term coined by Ross Jeffries to describe males who are typically clueless and incompetent with women.

Theory 
The original Jeffries version of pickup is based on neuro-linguistic programming (NLP), a theory that claims the existence of a connection between neurological processes, language, and behavioural patterns learned through experience. This version of pickup supposes that one can model a person to obtain their skills. But, according to scientific consensus, NLP is a pseudoscience and its methods have no evidentiary base.

Jeffries proposes to imitate seduction experts to obtain their skills and attract women's attention and founds his claims on NLP. More modern pickup gurus gave up these strongest claims, while still using basic elements of NLP.

The pickup community has a special terminology, which allows for distinguishing the initiated. Pickup terms are borrowed from everyday English vocabulary or from special areas like business terminology and thus can be quite opaque for novices.

Pickup terminology is mostly based on the following kinds of terminology:
 Military terminology: for example, a woman one seduces is called a target;
 Sports terminology: for example, a process of seduction is called a game;
 Business terminology, particularly sales jargon such as closing.

The pickup artist 
A pickup artist (commonly abbreviated PUA) is a person who practices finding multiple sexual partners. Such a person purportedly abides by a certain system deemed effective by that community in his attempts to seduce partners.

The use of pickup in this context, slang for making a casual acquaintance with a stranger in anticipation of sexual relations, was popularized by the 1970 book How to Pick Up Girls by Eric Weber, and by Pick-Up Times, a short-lived 1970s magazine, and the 1987 semi-autobiographical romantic comedy The Pick-up Artist, written and directed by James Toback. More recent works of pickup artist culture include Neil Strauss's book, The Game: Penetrating the Secret Society of Pickup Artists, and the 2007 VH1 reality television series, The Pickup Artist, starring the pickup artist Mystery. The former pickup artist Roosh V, who has since recanted aspects of his past and converted to Oriental Orthodox Christianity, previously had self-published 14 books describing techniques for seducing women. According to Salon, such books are the "cash cow" of the pickup industry.

The term pickup artist is also associated with a male heterosexual subculture that strives to improve sexual success with women. Routines and gambits are developed to stimulate purported "attraction switches", sometimes combined with mental-conditioning techniques such as neuro-linguistic programming. Members aim to improve their seductive capabilities through the development of various lifestyles. The culture surrounding pickup has spawned an entire industry servicing those who want to improve their social and seduction skills with consultations and in-field training.

Pickup artists have received mixed to negative responses from the press and general public, with many regarding both the practice and theory as immoral, sexist, and ineffective. In 2014, following widely supported public petitions, U.S.-based PUA speaker and instructor Julien Blanc was denied entry to both the United Kingdom and Australia after he published YouTube videos explaining and demonstrating behaviors such as grabbing women by the throat and forcing their heads towards his crotch.

Pickup artists have also been parodied, as in the March 2011 The Scott Mills Show. BBC Radio 1 debated Neil Strauss' The Game on many shows.

Psychologist Petra Boynton has stated that there is "no evidence of effectiveness" for any claims by pickup artists.  Research by Nathan Oesch of the University of Oxford Department of Experimental Psychology, however, confirmed that attraction and seduction principles, as described in Strauss' books on the subject, do have a factual basis in social, physiological, and evolutionary psychology.

Practices 

There are a variety of PUA "schools of thought" that promote numerous different methods. These range from approaches that are very indirect, and which stress starting with casual conversation before building into a flirt, to methods in which attraction is communicated very openly and directly. Most PUAs acknowledge the distinction between the so-called "inner game" and the "outer game", where the former relates to techniques directed towards increasing one's self-confidence and mindset, whilst the latter is about actual interaction with real people. Inner game may involve taking greater care in one's looks and presentation, identifying and neutralising self-defeating mental habits (also known as "limiting beliefs"), and developing mental routines to build confidence. Outer game involves actual interaction with individuals and groups of people, from body language to conversation. The pick-up artist may frequent a self-help group and converse with other PUAs to discuss techniques.

In The Game, Neil Strauss documents various practices among pickup artists.  Members of the community believe in achieving success with women through putatively scientific and empirical means, rather than by relying on good looks or instinct, or by following societal courtship conventions. The practice of going out with the purpose of meeting women is known as "sarging", a term coined by Ross Jeffries, after his cat "Sarge". A pickup