# Hairmyres railway station

Hairmyres railway station is a railway station in the Hairmyres area of East Kilbride, South Lanarkshire, Greater Glasgow, Scotland. The station is managed by ScotRail and is on the Glasgow South Western Line  southeast of  towards .

The line is single here with a passing loop approximately  east of Hairmyres Station, which extends for approximately  to Kirktonholme Road East Kilbride. It is crossed mid-loop by the A726 Queensway overbridge. Although the line was always single between  and East Kilbride, sidings existed to serve the former Radio Times factory in the College Milton Industrial Estate adjacent to the station. These were closed and lifted in the late 1960s. The Hairmyres Hospital and Department for International Development's office are located nearby.

Up until the mid-1990s the area around the station was semi rural, but several new housing schemes have been built up in the area over the last decade or so giving far increased patronage to the station.

Facilities 
The station is open 24 hours a day (although trains only run through it for around 18 hours a day). The station is unstaffed, but there is a ticket machine in the station's heated and seated modern waiting shelter. There are 86 parking spaces and 4 cycle lockers also available. The station is served by a small newsagents.

Services 
The station has a daily half-hourly service, served exclusively by British Rail Class 156 DMU's, in each direction northbound to  and southbound to . The first train going to Glasgow Central is at 06:21 on weekdays, with the last train from East Kilbride to Glasgow at 23:59. Going from Glasgow to East Kilbride, the first and last trains are at 06:41 and 00:47 respectively.

Future 
There are plans to relocate the station  west. Work is expected to begin in 2024.

References

External links
 Video footage of Hairmyres railway station.

Railway stations in South Lanarkshire
SPT railway stations
Railway stations served by ScotRail
Buildings and structures in East Kilbride
Former Caledonian Railway stations
Railway stations in Great Britain opened in 1868
1868 establishments in Scotland