[Organic Chemistry for Advanced Students — Gutenberg #38709]

pots well clear of one another. Slugs show a marked partiality for the succulent young leaves and should be excluded by dusting round the frames occasionally with newly slaked lime. The inverted pots serve as traps. The frames may thus be frequently syringed without keeping the plants unduly wet. Shade heavily from direct sunlight, but afford as much diffused light as practicable. Ventilate on all favourable occasions, and close the frames early after copious syringing. By the end of the month they will be ready for the final shift into 7-in. pots. Much care must be used in handling them, the leaves being large, tender and numerous. The soil is as for the last potting. The frames should be kept close and heavily shaded for a few days after potting; then gradually reduce shade and increase ventilation. By the end of July the elegance of the foliage alone should well repay the care bestowed on them. From this time onwards very little shading will be needed, the object of the cultivator being to harden the growth already made. With the advent of cool weather in September, remove to flowering quarters in a warm greenhouse. Flowering will begin in November and will continue through the winter and spring. The damping off of the flower-buds may occasionally prove troublesome during winter. This may generally be traced to checks, such as sudden changes in temperature, too low a temperature, careless watering, &c. During spring plants that are flowering freely will require weak manure water about twice a week. Plants selected to bear seed should be set aside for that purpose, and as soon as the capsules are found to be developing properly they should be reduced to six or seven per plant, and all flower-buds picked off as soon as they are large enough to handle. The production of strong seeds is of the utmost importance. Plants grown for market purposes, either for decoration or for seed, are sown later than the above, are kept cooler, and during summer receive more ventilation and less shade. This results in the production of plants with much smaller and more erect leaves, which travel well. They are flowered in spring and early summer. The species grown for this purpose is _C. persicum_. A few species are hardy in dry sheltered positions, such as rockeries, under walls and old trees, provided the positions are well drained. Such are _C. europaeum_, with reddish-purple flowers in summer; _C. hederifolium_ in autumn; and _C. neapolitanum_, with large leaves marbled with silver and rosy-pink flowers. CYCLE (Gr. [Greek: kuklos], a circle), in astronomy, a period of time at the end of which some aspect or relation of the heavenly bodies recurs. The more important cycles are discussed in the articles CALENDAR and ECLIPSE. In physics, the term is applied to a series of operations which, performed upon a system, brings it back to its original state; "Carnot's Cycle" is an example (see THERMODYNAMICS). From the use of the word for any period at the end of which the same events recur in the same order or for any complete series of phenomena, it is used loosely of any long period of time. The name [Greek: ho épikòs kuklos], the epic cycle, was given to the poems which complete the Homeric account of the Trojan War (see below). It is this use which has given rise to the application of the term "cycle" to a series of prose or poetical romances which have for a centre one subject, whether a person, as in the Alexander, Arthurian or Charlemagne cycles, or an object, such as the ring of the Nibelungenlied. In music "Song-cycle" (Ger. _Liederkreis_) is similarly used of a series of songs written round one subject or set to poems by the same author. Beethoven's _An die ferne Geliebte_ (Op. 98), published in 1816, is the earliest instance. Schubert's _Die schöne Müllerin_, Schumann's _Dichterliebe_ and Brahms's _Magelone-Lieder_ are well-known instances. _Epic Cycle._--This is a collection or corpus of lays written about 776-580 B.C. by poets of the Ionian School, introductory or complementary to the Homeric poems, dealing with the legends of the Trojan and Theban wars. At a later date they were arranged so as to form a continuous narrative (the _Iliad_ and the _Odyssey_ included), perhaps after certain alterations had been made, to fill up gaps and remove inconsistencies and repetitions. By whom, and when, they were so arranged, cannot be decided; it is possible that it was the work of Zenodotus of Ephesus, who had the care of the epic section of the Alexandrian library. In order to furnish the general reader with a comprehensive sketch of mythological history, Proclus--according to Welcker and Valesius (Valois), not the neo-Platonist, but an unknown 2nd or 3rd century grammarian, perhaps Eutychius Proclus of Sicca[1] in Africa, one of the tutors of Marcus Aurelius (see PROCLUS)--compiled a prose summary ([Greek: Grammatkê chrêstomatheia]) of the contents of the poems, to serve as a sort of primer to Greek literature. Extracts from this are preserved in the Codex Venetus of Homer and Photius (cod. 239), according to which the epic cycle began with the union of Uranus and Ge and ended with the death of Odysseus on his return to Ithaca at the hands of his son Telegonus. The cycle was in existence in his (Proclus's) time, and was in request not so much for its artistic merit, as for the "sequence of the events described in it." Further light is thrown on the subject by pictorial representations, intended for school use during the Roman imperial period, the most famous of which is the _Tabula Iliaca_ in the Capitoline museum. The expression "epic cycle" in the sense of a poetical collection does not occur before the Christian era; the word [Greek: kyklos] ("cycle," "circle") is used of a special kind of short poem and also of a prose abstract of mythological history; the adjective has the general sense of "hackneyed," "conventional," and is applied contemptuously (by Callimachus and Horace) to a particular Alexandrian school of poetry. The most important poems of the Trojan legendary cycle are the _Cypria of Stasinus_ (q.v.); the _Aethiopis_ and _Iliou Persis_ (Sack of Troy) of Arctinus (q.v.); the _Little Iliad_ of Lesches (q.v.); the _Nosti_ of Hagias or Agias; the _Telegonia_ of Eugammon. To the Theban cycle belong: the _Thebais_ or _Expedition of Amphiaraus_ and the _Epigoni_ of Antimachus. The _Oechalias Halosis_ (capture of _Oechalia_) of Creophylus (q.v.); the _Phocais_ (or _Minyas_) of Prodicus; and the _Danais_ of Cercops, although belonging to the old Homeric epos, cannot with certainty be included in the epic cycle. The names of the authors are in several cases exceedingly doubtful. BIBLIOGRAPHY.--The standard work on the subject is F. G. Welcker, _Der epische Cyclus_ (1865-1882); see also T. W. Allen, "The Epic Cycle," in _Classical Quarterly_, Jan. and April 1908 (summary of sources and authorities); Wilamowitz-Möllendorff, _Homerische Untersuchungen_ (1884), who regards the traditional names and personalities of the poets of the cycle with great scepticism; D. B. Monro, _Journal of Hellenic Studies_, iv. (1883), appendix to his edition of the _Odyssey_, xiii.-xxiv. (1900), and on the Codex Venetus fragment of Proclus; J. E. Sandys, _Hist. of Class. Schol._ (2nd ed., 1906), vol. i. ch. 2; J. B. Bury, _Ancient Greek Historians_ (1909), pp. 2-8 on the epics as history; articles by H. Flach in Ersch and Gruber, _Allgemeine Encyklopädie_, and by E. Schwartz and others in Pauly-Wissowa, _Realencyclopädie_. FOOTNOTE: [1] An objection to this view is that according to the Augustan historian Capitolinus (_Antoninus_, 2) Eutychius of Sicca was a Latin not a Greek grammarian. CYCLING, the clipped term now given comprehensively to the sport or exercise of riding a bicycle (q.v.) or tricycle (q.v.). History. Suggestions of vehicles having two or more wheels and propelled by the muscular effort of the rider or riders are to be found in very early times, even on the bas-reliefs of Egypt and Babylon and the frescoes of Pompeii; but though sporadic examples of such contrivances are recorded in the 17th and 18th centuries, it was apparently not till the beginning of the 19th century that they were used to any considerable extent. A "velocipede" invented by Blanchard and Magurier, and described in the _Journal de Paris_ on the 27th of July 1779, differed little from the _célérifère_ proposed by another Frenchman, de Sivrac, in 1690; it consisted of a wooden bar rigidly connecting two wheels placed one in front of the other, and was propelled by the rider, seated astride the bar, pushing against the ground with his feet. The next advance was made in the _draisine_ of Freiherr Karl Drais von Sauerbronn (1785-1851), described in his _Abbildung und Beschreibung seiner neu erfundenen Laufmaschine_ (Nuremberg, 1817). In this the front wheel was pivoted on the frame so that it could be turned sideways by a handle, thus serving to steer the machine (figs. 1 and 2). A similar machine, the "celeripede," also with a movable front wheel, is said to have been ridden by J. N. Niepce in Paris some years before. In England the draisine achieved a great, though temporary, vogue under various names, such as velocipede, patent accelerator, bivector, bicipedes, pedestrian curricle (patented by Dennis Johnson in 1818), dandy horse, hobby horse, &c., and for a time it was popular in America also. The propulsion of the draisine by pushing with the feet being alleged to give rise to diseases of the legs, arrangements were soon suggested, as by Louis Gompertz in England in 1821, by which the front wheel could be rotated by the hands with the aid of a system of gearing, but the idea of providing mechanical connexions between the feet and the wheels was apparently not thought of till later. Pedals with connecting rods working on the rear axle are said to have been applied to a tricycle in 1834 by Kirkpatrick McMillan, a Scottish blacksmith of Keir, Dumfriesshire, and to a draisine by him in 1840, and by a Scottish cooper, Gavin Dalzell, of Lesmahagow, Lanarkshire, about 1845. The draisine thus fitted had wooden wheels, with iron tires, the leading one about 30 in. in diameter and the driving one about 40 in., and thus it formed the prototype, though not the ancestor, of the modern rear-driven safety bicycle. [Illustration: FIG. 1.--Gentleman's Hobby Horse.] [Illustration: FIG. 2.--Lady's Hobby Horse.] [Illustration: FIG. 3.--The Boneshaker, 1868.] [Illustration: FIG. 4.--The "Phantom," 1869.] For the next 20 years little was done, and then began the evolution of the high "ordinary" bicycle with a large driving wheel in front and a small trailing one behind. About 1865 Pierre Lallement in Paris constructed a bicycle in which the front wheel was driven by pedals and cranks attached directly to its axle, but it is doubtful whether the