[The Electron Theory of Matter — Gutenberg #10015]

gallant gentleman is at hand, escort duty may, with perfect propriety, be left to him. _Charles_ inquires whether his handwriting is good enough to qualify him for membership in a base ball club. We think he is all right on that score. _Glaucus._--We have never heard that Newport is a good place for gathering sea-shells, but we presume you can shell out there if you wish. _Chapeau_.--Hats will be worn on the head this season. It is not considered stylish to hang them on the ear, eyebrow, or coat collar. _Cit._--The correct dimensions of a Saratoga pocket-book have not been definitely decided. As to sending it, it is doubtful whether the rail-road companies would receive it as baggage. Perhaps you could charter a canal boat. _Aspirant_.--We cannot tell you the price of "bored" in Washington "for a few weeks." No doubt you could get liberally bored at a reasonable rate. _Sorosis_--It was very wrong for your husband to mention the muddy coffee. However, we advise you to attempt a settlement of such troubles without creating a public scandal. _Butcher Boy_.--You cannot succeed as a writer of "lite comidy" if you continue to weave such tragic spells. "The Lean Larder" would not be an attractive title for your play. _C. Drincarty_ submits the following problem: If one swallow don't make a summer, how many claret punches can a man take before fall? Will some of our ingenious readers offer a suitable solution? _Culturist_.--The potato has been grafted with great success on the cucumber tree in some of the Western States. The stock should be heated by a slow fire until the sap starts. The grafts should be boiled in a preparation known to science as vanilla cream. _Truth_.--Your information is not authentic. LOUIS NAPOLEON never played marbles in Central Park, nor took his little Nap in the vestibule of WOOD'S Museum. _Fanny_ inquires whether "ballot girls" are wanted in New York. Wyoming is a better field for them than this city. _Maine Chance_ has been paying his _devoirs_ with great impartiality to two young ladies. One of them has red hair and a Roman nose, but the paternal income is very handsome. The other is witty and pretty, but can bring no rocks, except possibly "Rock the cradle." Recently he called on the golden girl, and a menial rudely repulsed him from the door. This hurt his feelings. He then went to the dwelling of the Fair, when a big dog attacked him "on purpose," and lacerated his trousers. He wants to know whether he has any remedy in the courts. His best way is the way home. _Rifleman_.--You are right; the rival guns--the Dreyse and the Chassepot--are also rifle-guns. Both of them are provided with needles, as you suppose, but, so far as there is any chance of their being put to the test under present circumstances, in Europe, it rather appears that both of them will prove Needless. _Piscator_.--No; the weak-fish is not so called on account of any supposed feebleness attributable to it. If you take a round of the markets one of these roaring hot days, your senses will tell you that the weakfish is sometimes very strong. * * * * * THE PLAYS AND SHOWS. As a good many persons know, LA GISELLE is a ballet whose hundred legs are nightly displayed on the stage of the GRAND OPERA HOUSE. The _Twelve Temptations_ have ceased to tempt, and the familiar legs of LUPE no longer allure. But in their place we have KATHI LANNER, and BERTHA LIND, and nearly a gross of assorted legs of the very best quality. Why do the women clamor for the ballot, when they have almost exclusive possession of the ballet? The latter is much nicer and more useful than the former. The average repeater can obtain only a dollar for his ballot, but the average ballet will find any quantity of enthusiastic admirers at one dollar and a half a head. Would any man pay KATHI LANNER a dollar for the privilege of seeing her with a ballot in her hand? On the other hand, lives there a man with eyes so dead that he would not cheerfully pay twice that sum to see her in the mazes of the ballet? But _La Giselle_? Certainly. I am coming to that in a moment. I have often thought that nature must have intended me for a writer of sermons. I have such a facility for beginning an article with a series of general remarks that have nothing whatever to do with the subject. Though how can any one be rationally expected to stick to anything in this weather, except, perhaps, the newly varnished surface of his desk? And how can even the firmest of resolutions be prevented from melting and vanishing away, with the thermometer at more degrees than one likes to mention? You remember the old proverb: "Man proposes, but his mother-in-law finally disposes." The bearing of this observation lies in its application. By the bye, I don't know a better application, in the present weather, than claret punch. Apply yourself continually to that cooling beverage, and apply it continually to your lips, and the result is a sort of reciprocity treat, whose results are much more certain than those of the reciprocity treaty, of which Congress has latterly had so much to say. To contemplate _La Giselle_ in all its bearings is a pleasure which is peculiarly appropriate to the season. KATHI LANNER and her companions may not be really cool, but they look as though they were. They remind one of the East Indian country houses that are built on posts, so as to allow a free circulation of air beneath the foundation. Anyhow, they look as if they took things coolly. (A joke might be made on the words coolly and Coolie. The reader may mix to his own taste. It's too hot for any one to make jokes for other people.) But _La Giselle_? Yes! yes! I am just ready to speak of it. _La Giselle_ is a grand ballet in which an elaborate plot is developed by the toes of some fifty young ladies. There is a young woman in it who loves a man, and there is another woman who also loves him, and another man who loves the first woman, and meddles and mars as though he were a professional philanthropist. The woman--the first woman, I mean--goes crazy down to the extremity of her feet, and dies, and then there are more women,--no; these last are disembodied spirits, with nothing but light skirts on,--who dance in graveyards, and make young men dance with them till they fall down exhausted, calling in vain for BROWN to take them home in carriages, and pay for their torn gloves. The first young woman, and a young man--not the other young man, you understand--does a good deal of--Well, in fact, things are rather mixed before the ballet comes to an end, but I know that it's a good thing, for FISK sits in his private box and applauds it, which he wouldn't do if he didn't. And now, having placed _La Giselle_ plainly before your mental vision, I desire to rise to a personal explanation. For the ensuing four weeks, the places, in PUNCHINELLO, which have heretofore known me, will know me no more. I am going to a quiet country place on Long Island to write war correspondence for the--well, I won't mention the name of the paper. You see the editor of the _Na----_ of the paper in question, I should say,--wants to have an independent and unprejudiced account of the great struggle on the Rhine--something that shall be different from any other account.--Down on Long Island, I shall be out of the reach of either French or Prussian influence, and will be able to describe events as they should be. I have made arrangements with the "Veteran Observer" of the _Times_ to take charge of this column during my absence. If he can only curb his natural tendency toward frivolity and jocoseness, I am in hopes that he will be able to draw his salary as promptly and efficiently as though he were a younger man. Remarking, therefore, in the words of _Kathleen Mavourneen_, that my absence "may be four weeks, and it may be longer," I bid my readers a warm (thermometer one hundred and five degrees) farewell. MATADOR. * * * * * JUPITER BELLICOSUS. Truly, PUNCHINELLO, this is an age of progress. Wars of succession are no more. Absolutism must forever hang its head. Fling a glance at France; peer into Prussia, _Vox populi_ is the voice of the King, and the voice of the king is therefore _vox Dei_. When a king speaks for his people he must speak sooth; what he says of other peoples must be taken with a grain of salt. Bearing this in mind, the apparent inconsistency between the regal rigmarole and the Imperial improvisation (these epithets are a tribute to the Republic) which I have received by our _special wire_ from Europe were addressed by the monarchs to their respective armies before the grand "wiring in" which is to follow. WILHELM KOENIG VON PRUSSEN. _Soldaten_: The Gaul is at our gates. _Vaterland_ is in danger: my _weiss_ is then for war. France, led by a despot, is about to desecrate the Rhine. His imperial bees are swarming, but we shall send him back with his bees in his bonnet, and a bee's mark (BISMARCK) on the end of his nasal organ. France wars for conquest; Prussia never. When FREDERICK the Great captured Silesia from a Roman without any apparent pretext, was he not an instrument of Providence? When, in company with Austria, we beat and bullied Denmark out of Schleswig-Holstein, were we not victorious, and is not that sufficient justification? When we afterwards beat this Austria, did it not serve her right? And when we absorbed Hanover, &c., was it not to protect them? Yes, our present object is the defence of our country and the capture of Alsace and Lorraine, which mere politeness prevented us from claiming hitherto. On, then, soldiers of Deutchland. Let our _law reign_ in Lorraine, for what is sauce for the Prussian goose should be Alsace for the Gallic gander. The God of battles is on the side of our just cause; Leipsic is looking at us, Waterloo is watching us. GOTT _und_ WILHELM, _sauerkraut und schnapps. Vorwarts._ NAPOLEON, EMPEREUR DES FRANCAIS. _Soldats:_ True to your trust in me, I am about to lead you to slaughter. _L'Empire c'est la paix_. Prussia would place a poor and distant relative of mine on the throne of Spain, therefore must we recover the natural frontier of France, which lies upon the