[Organic Chemistry for Advanced Students — Gutenberg #38709]

controlled the cell-processes. The work of Schleiden and Schwann marks the close of the first period in the history of the cell-theory--the period dominated by the cell-wall. The subsequent history is marked by the gradual recognition of the importance of the cell-contents. Schleiden had noticed in the plant cell a finely granular substance which he termed "plant slime" (_Pflanzenschleim_). In 1846 Hugo von Mohl applied to this substance the term "protoplasm"; a term already used by Purkinje six years previously for the formative substance of young animal embryos. Mohl showed that the young plant cell was at first completely filled by the protoplasm, and that only later, by the gradual accumulation of vacuoles in the interior, did this substance come to form a thin layer on the inner surface of the cell-wall. Mohl also described the spontaneous movement of the protoplasm, a phenomenon already noted by Schleiden for his plant slime, and originally discovered by Bonaventura Corti in 1772 for the cells of _Chara_, and rediscovered in 1807 by Treviranus. Not only was attention thus gradually directed to the importance of the cell-contents, but observations were not lacking, even in the plant kingdom, tending to weaken the importance hitherto attached to the cell-wall. Among these may be mentioned Cohn's observation that in the reproduction of Algal forms the protoplasm contracts away from the cell-wall and escapes as a naked "swarm spore." Similarly in the animal kingdom instances began to be noted in which no membrane appeared to be present (Kolliker, 1845; Bischoff, 1842), and for some time it was hotly debated whether these structures could be regarded as true cells. As a result of the resemblance between the streaming movements in these apparently naked cells (e.g. lymphocytes) and those seen in plant cells, R. Remak was led (1852-1853) to apply Mohl's term "protoplasm" to the substance of these animal cells also. Similarly Max Schultze (1863) and H. A. de Bary (1859), as a result of the study of unicellular animals, came to the conclusion that the substance of these organisms, originally termed "Sarcode" by F. Dujardin, was identical with that of the plant and animal cell. Numerous workers now began to realize the subordinate position of the cell-wall (e.g. Nägeli, Alexander Braun, Leydig, Kolliker, Cohn, de Bary, &c.), but it is to Max Schultze above all that the credit is due for having laid the foundation of the modern conception of the cell--a conception often referred to as the _proto-plasmic-theory_ in opposition to the _cell_-theory of Schleiden and Schwann. Max Schultze showed that one and the same substance, protoplasm, occurred in unicellular forms and in the higher plants and animals; that in plants this substance, though usually enclosed _within_ a cell membrane, was sometimes naked (e.g. swarm spores), while in many animal tissues and in many of the unicellular forms the cell-membrane was always absent. He therefore concluded that in all cases the cell-membrane was unessential, and he redefined the "cell" of Schleiden and Schwann as "a small mass of protoplasm endowed with the attributes of life" (1861). In the same year the physiologist Brücke maintained that the complexity of vital phenomena necessitated the assumption for the cell-protoplasm itself of a complex structure, only invisible because of the limitations of our methods of observation. The cell in fact was to be regarded as being itself an "elementary organism." By this time too it was realized that the formation of cells _de novo_, postulated by Schleiden's theory of "phytogenesis," did not occur. Cells only arose by the division of pre-existing cells,--as Virchow neatly expressed it in his since famous aphorism, _omnis cellula e cellula_. It was, however, many years before the details of this "cell-division" were laid bare (see _Cell-Division_ below). _General Morphology of the Cell._--In its simplest form the cell is a more or less spherical mass of viscid, translucent and granular protoplasm. In addition to the living protoplasm there is present in the cell food-material in various stages of assimilation, which usually presents the appearance of fine granules or spherules suspended in the more or less alveolar or reticular mesh-work of the living protoplasm. In addition there may be more or less obvious accumulations of waste material, pigment, oil drops, &c.--products of the cell's metabolic activity. All these relatively passive inclusions[3] are distinguished from the living protoplasm by the term "metaplasm" (Hanstein), or "paraplasm" (Kupffer), although in practice no very sharp distinction can be drawn between them. The cell is frequently, but by no means always, bounded by a cell-wall of greater or less thickness. In plants this cell-wall consists of cellulose, a substance closely allied to starch; in animals only very rarely is this the case. Usually the cell-wall, when this is present, is a product of the cell's secretive activity; sometimes, however, it appears to be formed by an actual conversion of the surface layer of the protoplasm, and retains the power of growth by "intussusception" like the rest of the protoplasm. Even when a limiting membrane is present, however, evidence is steadily accumulating to show that the cell is not an isolated physiological unit, but that, in the vast majority of cases, there is a protoplasmic continuity between the cells of the organism. This continuity, which is effected by fine protoplasmic threads ("cell-bridges") piercing the cell-wall and bridging the intercellular spaces when these are present, is to be regarded as the morphological expression of the physiological interdependence of the various--often widely separated--tissues of the body.[4] It is probable that it is the specialization of this primitive condition which has produced the cell-elements of the nervous system. In many cases the cell-connexions are so extensive as to obliterate cell-boundaries. A good example of such a "syncytial" tissue is provided by the heart muscle of Vertebrates and the intestinal musculature of Insects (Webber).[5] In all multicellular, and in the great majority of unicellular, organisms the protoplasm of the cell-unit is differentiated into two very distinct regions,--a more or less central region, the _nucleus_, and a peripheral region (usually much more extensive), the cell-body or _cytoplasm_. This universal morphological differentiation of the cell-protoplasm is accompanied by corresponding chemical differences, and is the expression of a physiological division of labour of fundamental importance. In some of the simpler unicellular organisms, e.g. _Tetramitus_, the differentiated protoplasm is not segregated. Such forms are said to have a "distributed" nucleus, and among the Protozoa correspond to Haeckel's "Protista." It is probable that among plants the Bacteria and Cyanophyceae have a similar distributed nucleus. In all the higher forms, however, the segregation is well marked, and a "nuclear membrane" separates the substance of the nucleus, or "karyoplasm"[6] from the surrounding "cytoplasm." Within the nuclear membrane the karyoplasm is differentiated into two very distinct portions, a clear fluid portion, the "karyolymph," and a firmer portion in the form of a coarser or finer "nuclear reticulum." This latter is again composed of two parts, the "linin reticulum,"[7] and, embedded in the latter and often irregularly aggregated at its nodal points, a granular substance, the "chromatin,"[8] the latter being the essential constituent of the nucleus. In addition to the chromatin there may be present in the nucleus one or more, usually spherical, and as yet somewhat enigmatical bodies, the "nucleoli." In addition to the nucleus and cytoplasm, a third body, the "centrosome," has often been considered as a constant cell-structure. It is a minute granule, usually lying in the cytoplasm not far from the nucleus, and plays an important part in cell-division and fertilization (see below). _Cell-differentiation._--Both among unicellular and multicellular individuals the cell assumes the most varied forms and performs the most diverse functions. In all cases, however, whether we examine the free-living shapeless and slowly creeping _Amoeba_, or the striped muscle cell or spermatozoon of the Metazoa (fig. 1, b and c), the constant recurrence of cytoplasm and nucleus show that we have to deal in each case with a cell. The variation in the form and structure of the cell is an expression of that universal economic law of nature, "division of labour," with its almost invariable accompanying "morphological differentiation"; the earliest and most fundamental example being in the differentiation of the cell-protoplasm into cytoplasm and nucleus. In multicellular individuals the division of labour to which the structural complexity of the organism is due is between the individual cell-units, some cells developing one aspect, some another, of their vital attributes. Thus one cell specializes in, say, secretion, another in contractility, another in receiving and carrying stimuli, and so forth, so that we have the gland cell, the muscle cell, and the nerve cell, each appropriately grouped with its fellows to constitute the particular tissue or organ--gland, muscle or brain--which has for its function that of its constituent cells. In unicellular animals we also find division of labour and its accompanying morphological differentiation, but here there is no subdivision of the protoplasm of the organism into the semi-autonomous units which so greatly facilitate division of labour in the Metazoa; instead, division of labour must be between different regions of protoplasm in the single cell. The sharply defined character of this regional differentiation in the Protozoa, and the surprising structural complexity it may produce, sufficiently clearly show that although multicellular structure has greatly facilitated regional differentiation in the Metazoa, it is by no means essential to this process (see below, _Present Position of the Cell-theory_). It is not within the scope of this article to attempt a comprehensive review of the variety in structural complexity to which this division of labour among the cells of the Metazoan and the regional differentiation of the cell-bodies of the Protozoa has given rise. Some indication of the wealth of variety may be best given by taking a general survey of cell-modifications, grouped according to the cell-attributes the expression of which they facilitate. [Illustration: a and b from Schäfer's _Essentials of Histology_, by permission of Longmans, Green & Co. FIG. 1.--Types of Cells. a, Fat-cell enclosing a huge fat-globule. b, Part of a Mammalian "striated" muscle-cell (diagrammatic). c, Spermatozoa of mouse and bird.] (a) _Structural Complexity facilitating Movement._--One of the most striking, and hence earliest described, of the fundamental attributes of protoplasm is its power of spontaneous movement. This is seen in the walled cell of plant tissue and in the naked cell-body of _Amoeba_. In the latter case the streaming movements of the naked protoplasm are accompanied by the formation of "pseudopodia," and result in the highly characteristic "amoeboid" creeping movement of this and similar organisms (e.g. lymph corpuscles of the blood).[9] In these examples the whole protoplasm participates in the movement,--there has been no division of labour, and there is, therefore, no visible morphological differentiation. In many cells, movement (either of the entire body or of the surrounding medium) is by means of slender whip-like processes of the