[Chemistry of Familiar Things — Gutenberg #27552]

Representative Plays by American Dramatists: 1856-1911: Rip van Winkle by Charles Burke First Project Gutenberg Edition , (December 18, 2007) [Illustration: Charles Burke] CHARLES BURKE CONTENTS Preface Announcement RIP VAN WINKLE Introduction CAST OF CHARACTERS COSTUME RIP VAN WINKLE ACT I. SCENE I. SCENE II. SCENE III. SCENE IV. SCENE V. ACT II. SCENE I. SCENE II. SCENE III. SCENE IV. SCENE LAST. Transcribers’ Notes This is the history of the evolution of a play. Many hands were concerned in its growth, but its increase in scenic effect as well as in dialogue was a stage one, rather than prompted by literary fervour. No dramatization of Washington Irving’s immortal story has approached the original in art of expression or in vividness of scene. But, if historical record can be believed, it is the actor, rather than the dramatist, who has vied with Irving in the vitality of characterization and in the romantic ideality of figure and speech. Some of our best comedians found attraction in the rï¿½le, yet, though Charles Burke and James A. Herne are recalled, by those who remember back so far, for the very Dutch lifelikeness of the genial old drunkard, Joseph Jefferson overtops all memories by his classic portrayal. As far as literary value of the versions is concerned, it would be small loss if none of them were available. They form a mechanical frame-work as devoid of beauty as the skeleton scarecrow in Percy Mackaye’s play, which was based on Hawthorne’s “Feathertop” in “Mosses from an Old Manse.” It was only when the dry bones were clothed and breathed into by the actor’s personality that the dramatizations lived. One can recall no plot that moves naturally in these versions; the transformation of the story into dialogue was mechanical, done by men to whom hack-work was the easiest thing in the world. Comparing the Kerr play with the Burke revision of it, when the text is strained for richness of phrase it might contain, only one line results, and is worth remembering; it is Burke’s original contribution,—“Are we so soon forgot when we are gone?” The frequency with which “Rip Van Winkle” was dramatized would indicate that, very early in the nineteenth century, managers of the theatre were assiduous hunters after material which might be considered native. Certainly _Rip_ takes his place with _Deuteronomy Dutiful_, _Bardwell Slote_, _Solon Shingle_ and _Davy Crockett_ as of the soil. Irving’s “Sketch Book” was published in 1819, and, considering his vast interest in the stage, and the dramatic work done by him in conjunction with John Howard Payne, it is unfortunate that he himself did not realize the dramatic possibilities of his story. There is no available record to show that he either approved or disapproved of the early dramatizations. But there is ample record to show that, with the beginning of its stage career, nine years after publication, “Rip” caught fire on the stage both in America and in London. Mr. James K. Hackett is authority for the statement that among his father’s papers is a letter from Irving congratulating him upon having made so much from such scant material. The legendary character of Irving’s sources, as traced in German folk-lore, does not come within the scope of this introduction. The first record of a play is Thomas Flynn’s appearance as _Rip_ in a dramatization made by an unnamed Albanian, at the South Pearl Street Theatre, Albany, N. Y., May 26, 1828. It was given for the benefit of the actor’s wife, and was called “Rip Van Winkle; or, The Spirits of the Catskill Mountains.” Notice of it may be found in the files of the Albany _Argus_. Winter, in his Life of Joseph Jefferson, reproduces the prologue. Part of the cast was as follows: Derrick Van Slous—Charles B. Parsons Knickerbocker—Moses S. Phillips Rip Van Winkle—Thomas Flynn Lowenna—Mrs. Flynn Alice—Mrs. Forbes Flynn was a great friend of the elder Booth, and Edwin bore Thomas as a middle name. In 1829, Charles B. Parsons was playing “Rip” in Cincinnati, Ohio, but no authorship is mentioned in connection with it, so it must be inferred that it was probably one of those stock products so characteristic of the early American theatre. Ludlow, in his “Dramatic Life,” records “Rip” in Louisville, Kentucky, November 21, 1831, and says that the Cincinnati performance occurred three years before, making it, therefore, in the dramatic season of 1828–29, this being Rip’s “first representation West of the Alleghany Mountains, and, I believe, the first time on any stage.” Ludlow proceeds to state that, while in New York, in the summer of 1828, an old stage friend of his offered to sell him a manuscript version of “Rip,” which, on his recommendation, he proceeded to purchase “without reading it.” And then the manager indicates how a character part is built to catch the interest of the audience, by the following bit of anecdote: It passed off there [in Cincinnati] without appearing to create any interest more than a drama on any ordinary subject, with the exception of one speech, which was not the author’s, but introduced without my previous knowledge by one of the actors in the piece. This actor was a young gentleman of education, who was performing on the stage under the name of Barry; but that was not his real name, and he was acting the part of _Nicholas Vedder_ in this drama. In the scene where _Rip_ returns to his native village after the twenty years of sleep that he had passed through, and finds the objects changed from what he remembered them,—among other things the sign over the door of the tavern where he used to take his drinks,—he enquires of _Vedder_, whom he had recognized, and to whom he had made himself known, who that sign was intended to represent, saying at the same time that the head of King George III used to hang there. In reply to him, instead of speaking the words of the author, Mr. Barry said, “Don’t you know who that is? That’s George Washington.” Then _Rip_ said, “Who is George Vashingdoner?” To which Barry replied, using the language of General Henry (see his “Eulogy on Washington,” December 26, 1799), “He was first in war, first in peace, and first in the hearts of his countrymen!” This woke the Cincinnatians up. Joseph Jefferson rejected this emendation later on, giving as his reason that, once an audience is caught in the flare of a patriotic emotion, it is difficult for an actor to draw them back effectively to the main currents of his story. We have Ludlow’s statement to the effect that Burke’s version was not unlike that produced by him as early as 1828–29, in the middle West. Could it have had any relationship to the manuscript by Kerr? In Philadelphia, at the Walnut Street Theatre, on October 30, 1829, William Chapman appeared as _Rip_, supported by Elizabeth and J. (probably John) Jefferson. Winter suggests that the dramatization may have been Ludlow’s, or it may have been the first draft of Kerr’s. Though it is generally conceded that the latter play was the one used by James H. Hackett, in a letter received by the Editor from Mr. James K. Hackett, it is suggested that his father made his own version, a statement not proved, but substantiated by Winter. The piece was given by Hackett, at the Park Theatre, New York, on August 22, 1830, and Sol Smith, in his “Theatrical Management in the West and South,” declares, “I should despair of finding a man or woman in an audience of five hundred, who could hear [his] utterance of five words in the second act, ‘But she was mine vrow’ without experiencing some moisture in the eyes.” While the _Galaxy_, in a later year, for February, 1868, states: “His _Rip Van Winkle_ is far nearer the ordinary conception of the good-for-nothing Dutchman than Mr. Jefferson’s, whose performance is praised so much for its naturalness.” The statement, by Oliver Bell Bunce, is followed by this stricture against Jefferson: “Jefferson, indeed, is a good example of our modern art. His naturalness, his unaffected methods, his susceptible temperament, his subtleties of humour and pathos are appreciated and applauded, yet his want of breadth and tone sometimes renders his performance feeble and flavourless.” On the day before its presentment by Hackett, the New York _Evening Post_ contained the following notice: Park Theatre, Mr. Hackett’s Benefit. Thursday, 22d inst. First night of Rip Van Winkle and second night of Down East.—Mr. Hackett has the pleasure of announcing to his friends and the public that his Benefit is fixed for Thursday next, 22d inst., when will be produced for the first time the new drama of “Rip Van Winkle; or, The Legend of the Kaatskill Mountains”—(founded on Washington Irving’s celebrated tale called “Rip Van Winkle”)—with appropriate Dutch costumes; the River and Mountain scenery painted by Mr. Evers, all of which will be particularly described in the bills of the day.—Principal characters—_Rip Van Winkle_, Mr. Hackett; _Knickerbocker_, Mr. Placide; _Vedder_, Mr. Chapman; _Van Slous_, Mr. Blakely; _Herman_, Mr. Richings; _Dame Rip Van Winkle_, Mrs. Wheatley; _Alice_, Mrs. Hackett; _Lowenna_, Mrs. Wallack. Durang refers to the dramatist who is reputed to have done the version for Mr. Hackett, as “Old Mr. Kerr,” an actor, who appeared in Philadelphia under the management of F. C. Wemyss. However much of an actor John Kerr was, he must have gained some small reputation as a playwright. In 1818, Duncombe issued Kerr’s “Ancient Legends or Simple and Romantic Tales,” and at the Harvard Library, where there is a copy of this book, the catalogue gives Kerr’s position in London at the time as Prompter of the Regency Theatre. He must have ventured, with a relative, into independent publishing, for there was issued, in 1826, by J. & H. Kerr, the former’s freely translated melodramatic romance, “The Monster and Magician; or, The Fate of Frankenstein,” taken from the French of J. T. Merle and A. N. Bï¿½raud. He did constant translation, and it is interesting to note the similarity between his “The Wandering Boys! or, The Castle of Olival,” announced as an original comedy, and M. M. Noah’s play of the same name. There is valuable material in possession of Mr. James K. Hackett for a much needed life of his father. This may throw light on his negotiations with Kerr; it may also detail more thoroughly than the records now show why it was that, when he went to England in 1832, he engaged Bayle Bernard to make a new draft of the piece, given in New York at the Park Theatre, September 4, 1833. It may have been because he saw, when he reached London, a version which Bernard had shaped for the Adelphi Theatre, 1831–32, when Yates,