EE Research Paper

Title: Electric Vehicle Charging System in the Smart Grid Using Different Machine Learning Methods

Abstract:
Smart cities require the development of information and communication technology to become a reality (ICT). A “smart city” is built on top of a “smart grid”. The implementation of numerous smart systems that are advantageous to the environment and improve the quality of life for the residents is one of the main goals of the new smart cities. In order to improve the reliability and sustainability of the transportation system, changes are being made to the way electric vehicles (EVs) are used. As EV use has increased, several problems have arisen, including the requirement to build a charging infrastructure, and forecast peak loads. Management must consider how challenging the situation is. There have been many original solutions to these problems. These heavily rely on automata models, machine learning, and the Internet of Things. Over time, there have been more EV drivers. Electric vehicle charging at a large scale negatively impacts the power grid. Transformers may face additional voltage fluctuations, power loss, and heat if already operating at full capacity. Without EV management, these challenges cannot be solved. A machine-learning (ML)-based charge management system considers conventional charging, rapid charging, and vehicle-to-grid (V2G) technologies while guiding electric cars (EVs) to charging stations. This operation reduces the expenses associated with charging, high voltages, load fluctuation, and power loss. The effectiveness of various machine learning (ML) approaches is evaluated and compared. These techniques include Deep Neural Networks (DNN), K-Nearest Neighbors (KNN), Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM), Random Forest (RF), Support Vector Machine (SVM), and Decision Tree (DT) (DNN). According to the results, LSTM might be used to give EV control in certain circumstances. The LSTM model’s peak voltage, power losses, and voltage stability may all be improved by compressing the load curve. In addition, we keep our billing costs to a minimum, as well.