# Kollankodu

Kollemcode (also spelled Kollencode, Kollangode, Kollamkode) is a municipality in Kanyakumari district, India. Kollencode is situated in Tamil Nadu-Kerala border. It has 33 wards. It is a coastal village on the shores of the Arabian Sea. Kollamcode is located 41 kilometres from Nagercoil and 36 kilometres from Thiruvananthapuram, the capital of Kerala, and also 64 kilometres from Kanyakumari.

Kollancode Municipality is coming under the administrative territory of Kanniyakumari district.  “The Kollancode town panchayat was constituted as Venkanji Village in 1953 and named Kollencode in 1977 as second grade Special village panchayat.  The Town is located at a distance of 10 km from Kaliyakkavilai town panchayat on the north and 14 km from Kuzhithurai Municipality on the east.  This town is located along the Kakkavilai to Kollencode State Highway Road.  This Town Panchayat extends over an area of 12.64Sq. Kms.  The village has combined together to form Kollencode Town Panchayat. In the year 11.6.2004 wide G.O.No.270 Date. 04.06.2004 it is called as Special Village Panchayat.  Again on 14.7.2006 wide G.O.No.55 date14.7.2006 as Town Panchayat, and upgraded as First Grade Town Panchayat. Now Ezhudesam Town Panchayat along with Kollancode Town Panchayat declared as Kollancode Municipality.( as per G.O.(Ms).No.118 (MAWS (Election) Department, dated.7.12.2021)). 

This village is famous for the Thookam Festival, celebrated by all without regard to caste and religion. It is celebrated once a year usually a date in March or April when the Bharani comes in Meenam month in Malayalam calendar). Kollamcode is also famous for its Bhadrakaliamman temple which draws large pilgrimages especially during the Thookam festival. It is believed that if childless couples visit the temple during the festival they will be blessed with a child. Chairperson Rani (DMK), Vice Chairperson Baby (Congress) were elected through the indirect election on March 4, 2022.

Municipality Officials

Departments 

 General Section
 Revenue Section
 Town Planning Section
 Engineering Section
 Public Health Section
 Information technology Section

References 

Tamil Nadu