EE Research Paper

Title: Applications of Sustainable Hybrid Energy Harvesting: A Review

Abstract:
This paper provides a short review of sustainable hybrid energy harvesting and its applications. The potential usage of self-powered wireless sensor (WSN) systems has recently drawn a lot of attention to sustainable energy harvesting. The objective of this research is to determine the potential of hybrid energy harvesters to help single energy harvesters overcome their energy deficiency problems. The major findings of the study demonstrate how hybrid energy harvesting, which integrates various energy conversion technologies, may increase power outputs, and improve space utilization efficiency. Hybrid energy harvesting involves collecting energy from multiple sources and converting it into electrical energy using various transduction mechanisms. By properly integrating different energy conversion technologies, hybridization can significantly increase power outputs and improve space utilization efficiency. Here, we present a review of recent progress in hybrid energy-harvesting systems for sustainable green energy harvesting and their applications in different fields. This paper starts with an introduction to hybrid energy harvesting, showing different hybrid energy harvester configurations, i.e., the integration of piezoelectric and electromagnetic energy harvesters; the integration of piezoelectric and triboelectric energy harvesters; the integration of piezoelectric, triboelectric, and electromagnetic energy harvesters; and others. The output performance of common hybrid systems that are reported in the literature is also outlined in this review. Afterwards, various potential applications of hybrid energy harvesting are discussed, showing the practical attainability of the technology. Finally, this paper concludes by making recommendations for future research to overcome the difficulties in developing hybrid energy harvesters. The recommendations revolve around improving energy conversion efficiency, developing advanced integration techniques, and investigating new hybrid configurations. Overall, this study offers insightful information on sustainable hybrid energy harvesting together with quantitative information, numerical findings, and useful research recommendations that progress and promote the use of this technology.