EE Research Paper

Title: A review on socio-technical transition pathway to European super smart grid: Trends, challenges and way forward via enabling technologies

Abstract:
• This study adopts a retrospective empirical approach to review the innovative methods and techniques in the European Union perspective aimed at transitioning from a smart grid to a super smart grid. • It provides both an overview and a critical assessment of the actions undertaken by the EU to transform the grids into the foundation of a decarbonized electricity system. • It proposes that for aggressive and effective deployment of super smart grids, the existing regulatory framework must be re-evaluated, and it is imperative to incorporate the enabling technologies. • It delves into innovative solutions like blockchain-based decentralized energy transactions, which offer promising avenues for secure, efficient, and autonomous energy balancing. • It delivers a comprehensive overview of the potential challenges and issues encountered in super smart grids, emphasizing the crucial role of regulatory reforms and technological innovations in achieving a sustainable, intelligent, and interconnected European power grid. This study employs retrospective empirical approach to assess the innovative methods and techniques in the European union perspective with the aim to transition from smart grid to super smart grid. The European union has embarked on a significant modernization of its electricity infrastructure. This transformation is centralized on the idea of the development of a super smart grid, which leverages on emerging technologies to enhance grid intelligence and interconnectivity all across the Europe. This study critically analyses the technical, regulatory and economic steps taken by the EU to facilitate this transition. It put forward the challenges due to the integration of RES, such as intermittency, cybersecurity threats, as well as the need for advance demand-supply balance for the network. It addresses the market hurdles for grid expansion and modernization, and also include the need for updated regulatory frameworks. This study also explores the cutting-edge solutions like blockchain based decentralized energy transactions, which offers a secure platform for an efficient, and autonomous energy balance. The development of a super smart grid makes use of artificial intelligence for predictive analytics, demand forecasting, and real-time decision-making. The metaverse and digital twin formulates simulation and optimization of energy systems. Furthermore, this study put forwards a comprehensive overview of the potential challenges and issues encountered in super smart grids, presents governance and policy interventions and emphasize the role of regulatory reforms, innovations and investments made in technology for achieving a sustainable, intelligent and interconnected European power grid.