# The Replacements (TV series)

The Replacements is an animated television series that aired on  Disney Channel from July 28, 2006, to March 30, 2009. 52 episodes were produced.

Premise
The opening sequence explains that two siblings, Todd and Riley, lived in what used to be an orphanage with their birth parents' fate unrevealed. While cleaning the floors, they stumbled across a Fleemco comic book containing an ad for the Fleemco phone. They mail-ordered the ad and $1.98 for the phone—which allows them to replace any person or animal they desire—and in the process they got new parents: a British secret agent named Agent K and a professional daredevil named Dick Daring. Whenever Todd and Riley want to replace someone undesirable, they call Conrad Fleem on the Fleemco phone via a large button. Fleemco immediately replaces the person with someone whom the siblings prefer. The series follows their misadventures as they attempt to better their lives by replacing unwanted people, with said attempt usually backfiring and both learning a lesson about appreciating what they already have.

Episodes

Characters

Main

 Todd Bartholomew Daring (voiced by Nancy Cartwright) is Riley's 11-year-old younger brother. Todd is the lazy, troublemaking, and selfish one of the siblings. He and Riley are the adopted children of K and Dick Daring. Todd usually uses the Fleemco phone to replace people for selfish purposes. He is best friends with Jacobo and Shelton. One episode revealed he has a talent for singing. Todd loves the Monkey Cop movie series and playing the GameCone (a parody of Nintendo GameCube) video game console. He hates school, learning, and reading, which forces him to replace the librarian in another episode. His catchphrases are "Don't judge me" and "Sweet." In "Ratted Out" for the first time, Todd sings the second verse to "My Rat Buddy" at the end of the episode. In season 2, Todd still has feelings for Sierra after the one-time bond between the two in a parody of the Star Trek fan club. In the episode "Tasumi Unmasked," Todd formed his single band and battles against the mailman for his "Game Cone 4".
 Riley Eugene Daring (voiced by Grey DeLisle) is Todd's 13-year-old older sister. She is the kinder, more caring, and reliable sibling who enjoys school. She generally uses the Fleemco phone to replace mean or unfair adults who do not take her seriously. She is a girly girl who enjoys equestrianism, Hornet Hive Scouts (a Girl Scout-type of youth group), and pretty much any form of sugar. She has an imaginary unicorn friend named Rainbow Jumper and gets a B average in school. At one point, she was part of the journalism staff at school. She has a crush on Johnny Hitswell, and they became a couple in season 2, but Johnny breaks up with her because of her controlling attitude in "Heartbreak in the City." Riley claims she is over him, despite many people who claim otherwise. Riley, contrary to her caring and thoughtful demeanor, is often prone to jealousy. In "She Works Hard For The Movie," it's revealed Riley has an Aunt named Debbie, and her middle name is Eugene. 
 Karen Mildred "Agent K" Daring (voiced by Kath Soucie) resembles Emma Peel. She is the siblings' adoptive British mother and is a 6'1''-tall superspy. From an outside view, it may seem she doesn't care for her kids or husband, but in fact, she loves them devotedly, even though she may express it through a recording or videotape. If something seems unfair, she fixes it very quickly. She is also bad at cooking. Her career as a spy has caused her paranoia. In the episode Abra K Dabra!, it is revealed that she has stage fright and that her middle name is Mildred. She also habitually thinks all her chores are secret missions. She plays classical violin, which Riley hates, and it puts Dick to sleep. K once took karate lessons from the evil Master Pho (Master Foe) to bust his secret evil bank-robbing karate gang. Even though she's just as logical as C.A.R. (albeit less sarcastic and violent), she seems to favor Dick over him. Even though both Dick and Agent K have contrasting personalities, they still seem to be very much in love and care for Riley and Todd as their children. Her mother is also a secret agent.
 Richard Marion "Dick" Daring (voiced by Daran Norris) is the siblings' adoptive father and the world-greatest daredevil. He is a semi-former stunt artist and is constantly working on new tricks. His appearance resembles that of Evel Knievel. He is also very immature and owns a teddy bear known as "Evel Bearnievel." He thinks that C.A.R. is his best friend, though C.A.R. doesn't see it that way. Dick bought Riley a mule named Prince Cinnamon Boots instead of a horse like she wanted. Like Todd, Dick isn't smart at all. In "The Spy Who Wasn't Riley," we learn that Dick has coulrophobia and tries to force Todd to be a stunt man instead of a circus clown for his career. It is also revealed in one episode that he is a better cook than K. His catchphrase is "Look out below!"
 C.A.R.T.E.R. (also known as C.A.R.) (voiced by David McCallum) is the high-tech family car with a British accent (like Agent K). He can do just about anything but is not always preparing to do something for the family, especially not for Dick. He often calls Dick a twit but is often indifferent to him. He never lets Dick drive him (presumably under the assumption that Dick's daredevil habits would wreck him) and scare Dick using "The Oslo Option," which consists of C.A.R.T.E.R. pulling out a large spinning buzzsaw blade from his hood. The family usually refers to him as simply C.A.R., which is most likely a parody of K.I.T.T. from Knight Rider. C.A.R also resembles the Mach Five from Speed Racer. In the episode Tasumi Unmasked, C.A.R used to be a one-man-band player but was kicked out for not being perfect. They destroyed his instruments. Also, in this episode, he had a goatee, possibly real or not. He is sarcastic, humorous, and violent.
 Conrad Fleem (voiced by Jeff Bennett) is the mysterious owner of the Fleemco company. He processes Todd and Riley's requests whenever they call him. He has a very long mustache. His face is never shown until the episode "Irreplaceable," where he reveals himself as Todd & Riley's red-headed uncle.

Supporting
 Tasumi (voiced by Lauren Tom) is Riley's Japanese-American best friend, who has a crush on Jacobo, as revealed in one episode when she kissed him. Tasumi's crush on Jacobo is also hinted at in "The Truth Hurts" when she passes on a note in the classroom that asks Jacobo if she liked him and was crushed when he signed maybe. She wears a pink metal suit which resembles RoboCop, but she no longer wears it during season 2. She claims her family is part of a crime-fighting team. (parody of Power Rangers/Super Sentai). She also has a list of people she hates. Riley is either on or off it. In the episode "Best friends For-Never?" it appears Riley first meets Tasumi in a broom closet when she was new at school and tried to get to homeroom but got lost. Tasumi was in the broom closet because she split her armor and was embarrassed, but Riley fixed it with the duct tape her father made her carry. In the episode "Tasumi Unmasked", it is revealed that Tasumi is in fact a Japanese pop star. She moved to Pleasant Hills in order to escape the constant adoration of her fans and live a peaceful life, as Pleasant Hills was voted as the least culturally aware town in the world and she believed that no one would recognize her. However, in order to make sure that no one recognized her, she wore a costume from a popular anime and used details from that anime in order to get a new history. That is the reason she always referred to things such as fighting giant monsters and so forth, but in reality, she never did anything of that sort. When her fans found out about this, she moved back to Japan for two weeks to record a new album until Riley replaced her band members with orangutans and she got kicked out by her new orangutan members because she has thumbs (even though orangutans do have thumbs). She came back to Pleasant Hills with Riley and no longer wears her metal suit, dumping it in the garbage. Under her metal suit, Tasumi has long black hair and a pretty face complete with a beauty mark. She wears a blue wig with her metal suit. She also has a brother named Roku.
 Abbey Willson (voiced by Erica Hubbard in season 1 and Tempestt Bledsoe in season 2) is Riley's other African-American best friend. Even though she hates the popular girls such as Sierra, she is seen wanting to be a part of them so bad, and habitually tells Sierra she is cool, even though she doesn't mean to. It also seems that her parents are rich. She sometimes can be hypocritical. She has a younger sister named Tiffany who dated Todd in the episode "A Little Tiff".
 Jacobo Jacobo (HA-CO-BO) (voiced by Candi Milo) is Todd's Mexican-American best friend (though his shirt has the colors of the flag of Spain). He has a funny-looking mouth. Jacobo loves myst