EE Research Paper

Title: A Comprehensive Survey on Millimeter Wave Communications for Fifth-Generation Wireless Networks: Feasibility and Challenges

Abstract:
Fifth-generation (5G) cellular networks will almost certainly operate in the high-bandwidth, underutilized millimeter-wave (mmWave) frequency spectrum, which offers the potentiality of high-capacity wireless transmission of multi-gigabit-per-second (Gbps) data rates. Despite the enormous available bandwidth potential, mmWave signal transmissions suffer from fundamental technical challenges like severe path loss, sensitivity to blockage, directivity, and narrow beamwidth, due to its short wavelengths. To effectively support system design and deployment, accurate channel modeling comprising several 5G technologies and scenarios is essential. This survey provides a comprehensive overview of several emerging technologies for 5G systems, such as massive multiple-input multiple-output (MIMO) technologies, multiple access technologies, hybrid analog-digital precoding and combining, non-orthogonal multiple access (NOMA), cell-free massive MIMO, and simultaneous wireless information and power transfer (SWIPT) technologies. These technologies induce distinct propagation characteristics and establish specific requirements on 5G channel modeling. To tackle these challenges, we first provide a survey of existing solutions and standards and discuss the radio-frequency (RF) spectrum and regulatory issues for mmWave communications. Second, we compared existing wireless communication techniques like sub-6-GHz WiFi and sub-6 GHz 4G LTE over mmWave communications which come with benefits comprising narrow beam, high signal quality, large capacity data transmission, and strong detection potential. Third, we describe the fundamental propagation characteristics of the mmWave band and survey the existing channel models for mmWave communications. Fourth, we track evolution and advancements in hybrid beamforming for massive MIMO systems in terms of system models of hybrid precoding architectures, hybrid analog and digital precoding/combining matrices, with the potential antenna configuration scenarios and mmWave channel estimation (CE) techniques. Fifth, we extend the scope of the discussion by including multiple access technologies for mmWave systems such as non-orthogonal multiple access (NOMA) and space-division multiple access (SDMA), with limited RF chains at the base station. Lastly, we explore the integration of SWIPT in mmWave massive MIMO systems, with limited RF chains, to realize spectrally and energy-efficient communications.