# Remchingen

Remchingen () is a municipality in the Enz district, in Baden-Württemberg, Germany, situated on the river Pfinz, 14 km southeast of Karlsruhe, and 12 km northwest of Pforzheim.

History

Older history 

 1st millennium BC: Celtic settlement (grave finds 1947 in Singen)
 Roman settlement between 80 and 90 AD (numerous finds, including two pillars of denial from Nöttingen, two four-god stones immured in the churches of Nöttingen, inscription plate from the settlement Vicus Senotensis)
 After the Romans fled their flight around 260 AD, the Alamanni settled the land to the right of the Rhine, but a little over two centuries later, after a great battle in 496, they were forced by the Franconian tribe to give up the Kraichgau and the landscape up to vacate the Murg.
 The first written mentions of Remchingen districts date from the 8th century: On June 1, 769 in “Sigincheim im Pfinzgau” (first mention of Singen), four Franks gave Lorsch monastery a farmyard, 34 acres of arable land, a meadow and a piece of forest . Between 888 and 893, the abbot of this monastery exchanged further ownership of this monastery in "Vulvirincha", today's Wilferdingen, for the same area in Illingen, southeast of Maulbronn (Wilferdingen is mentioned for the first time).
 Around 825 a certain Noting, probably related to the Counts of Calw, gave the Reichenau monastery goods in Nöttingen, Dietenhausen and Singen, which at that time, like the entire northern Pfinztal, were in the Ufgau, according to a source from the 16th century.
 1160: First mention of the Lords of Remchingen, a lower nobility family. They probably built a moated castle, Remchingen Castle, out of wood on the site of today's open-air swimming pool.
 1278: Darmsbach is mentioned for the first time, a settlement that only developed in the High Middle Ages
 shortly after 1300: The Lords of Remchingen sold their moated castle. They later bought back shares in the castle for a while, but then finally sold them to the Margraves of Baden in 1568.
 Around 1460, the pilgrimage chapel of our dear Frau zur Eich was built near today's Sperlingshof, but was abandoned again between 1520 and 1540. In 1568 rights to the former chapel were transferred from the Herrenalb monastery to the margraviate of Baden-Durlach. From the former buildings (chapel and outbuildings) only artefacts in the “monastery” are evidence of today. [8]
 16th century: Nöttingen, Singen and Wilferdingen took part in the Bundschuh rebellion (1502) and the Peasants' War (1525)
 April 14, 1604: Margrave Ernst Friedrich von Baden died of a blow in a Calvinist-Lutheran religious war against Pforzheim near Remchingen Castle. The trigger for the dispute was the Staffort book of 1599 and the earlier relocation of the Baden residence to Durlach.

19th and 20th centuries 

 July 12, 1806: Foundation of the Grand Duchy of Baden
 1861: Nöttingen successfully fought against the railway connection on the Karlsruhe – Mühlacker line, which then took place via Wilferdingen-Singen.
 March 21, 1919: Constitution of the Democratic Republic of Baden came into force
 June 25, 1939: Foundation of the Pforzheim district
 1945: part of the American zone of occupation
 September 19, 1945: Foundation of the state of Württemberg-Baden
 April 25, 1952: Foundation of the state of Baden-Württemberg
 January 1, 1973 Foundation of the Enzkreis in accordance with the district reform in Baden-Württemberg

Reforms 
The municipality of Remchingen was formed on January 1, 1973, through the merger of the two municipalities of Singen and Wilferdingen. The name of the former lords of "Remchingen" is chosen as the place name of the new community.

On January 1, 1975, the community of Nöttingen was incorporated into Remchingen.

No local councils have been set up, the districts are represented in different degrees in the local council.

Population development

Coat of arm 
Description: Two silver crossed glaive poles in red covered with a silver shield, inside a green-tipped red rose with blue clusters.

Old coats of arms 
Before Remchingen came into being, there were the communities of Wilferdingen, Singen and Darmsbach, all of which had their own coat of arms. The coat of arms of Wilferdingen was then adopted.

Geography 
Remchingen consists of the former municipalities Nöttingen, Wilferdingen and Singen. Remchingen was originally formed on 1 January 1973 by the merging of the municipalities Wilferdingen and Singen with Nöttingen also being included on 1 January 1975.

Neighbouring municipalities are Pfinztal, Königsbach-Stein, Kämpfelbach, Keltern and Karlsbad.

Climate
Remchingen has a relatively mild climate. This is characterized by the Pfinztal and the Rhine valley.

Source: climate-data.org

Sister cities, twin towns and friendship agreements

Remchingen has sister city agreements with the following cities:

  San Biagio Platani in Italy
   Sisak, Croatia.
Approximately 300 Sanbiagesi along with their families now live in Remchingen as well as another 100 former residents of Remchingen can be found in San Biagio Platani having returned to their hometown.

Structure 
Remchingen is made up of four districts. The four districts are very dense and central. The largest district is Wilferdingen. It is centrally located in the middle of Remchingen. This is where most of the infrastructure and the town center can be found. Singen is on the northern side in the direction of Karlsruhe. Singen is the second largest district and is right next to Wilferdingen. Nöttingen is the third largest and southernmost district. Darmsbach, by far the smallest district of Remchingen, lies between Nöttingen and Wilferdingen. All four districts are very close to each other and can be reached very quickly.

Population distribution 
 Wilferdingen (5218 inhabitants)
 Singen (3807 inhabitants)
 Nöttingen (2434 inhabitants)
 Darmsbach (558 inhabitants)

Districts 
The four districts are Wilferdingen, Singen, Nöttingen and Darmsbach.

Wilferdingen 
Wilferdingen is the largest district in the municipality of Remchingen.

Wilferdingen used to be inhabited by Romans. An old Roman house was excavated on the Niemandsberg in Wilferdingen. Wilferdingen was an independent municipality until 1973. On January 1, 1973, Wilferdingen joined forces with Singen to form the Remchingen community.

Wilferdingen is in the center of Remchingen. It is central and is separated from Singen and Darmsbach. Darmsbach delimits the district on the southwestern tip. The northern border of Wilferdingen converges at the border of Singen. The river Pfinz, which is a tributary of the Rhine, runs through Wilferdingen.

The federal highway 10 runs through Wilferdingen and continues to Karlsruhe and Pforzheim. There are also bus stops in Wilferdingen. The Karlsruhe-Mühlacker railway runs on the border between Wilferdingen and Singen. There is the Wilferdingen-Singen train station in Wilferdingen. The station also connects Wilferdingen and Singen with the help of an underpass. From the train station you can get to Karlsruhe, Pforzheim and Stuttgart, among others. Light rail vehicles, the Interregio-Express and the Regional-Express stop here. There is also a small airfield in Wilferdingen.

There are several sports facilities in Wilferdingen. There are several sports grounds, sports halls and athletics fields. Wilferdingen has, among other things, a football club, an athletics club and many more. There is a wide range of sports on offer in Wilferdingen, from hockey to boules.

Remchingen's central infrastructure is in Wilferdingen. So you can find the new Remchingen city center there. In the city center there are cultural offers such as the Remchingen cultural hall, the new town hall, a brewery and much more. You can also find the shopping street in Remchingen there. There are many shops along the B10. There are also many supermarkets, a hardware store, gas stations and also a primary and secondary school. Wilferdingen is the Remching district that has the best infrastructure. There are also some industrial parks, a police station, a fire station and a stationed ambulance in Wilferdingen. There are many restaurants and fast food outlets. There are many retail and specialty stores.

Singen 
Singen is the second largest district in the municipality of Remchingen.

Singen is the northernmost district of Remchingen, its settlement area lies predominantly on the right side of the Pfinz, which runs north-north-west there and which flows into the Kämpfelbach in the local area from the east. There is a weir and a watermill on the river. The district extends far to the south-west over the Pfinz and includes the large Buchwald forest and further north-north-east into the Hegenach forest.

Singen borders in the south on the settlement area of Wilferdingen, which is mostly on the other side of the Pfinztalbahn, which runs from the Kämpfelbachtal into the lower Pfinztal. The federal road 10 on the left Pfinzufer connects Singen with Pforzheim in the south