EE Research Paper

Title: A Survey of Performance Enhancement Techniques of Antipodal Vivaldi Antenna

Abstract:
The increasing proliferation of advanced devices for UWB, 5G communication, micrometer-wave, and millimeter-wave communication demands an antenna which can handle huge data rates, provides high gain and stable radiation pattern as a panacea of most of the current wireless communication problems. Many different antenna designs have been proposed by the researchers but, Antipodal Vivaldi Antenna (AVA) has drawn the attention of most of the researchers because of its high gain, wide bandwidth, less radiation loss, and stable radiation pattern. Different methods are presented to make AVA more compact while maintaining the performance of an antenna to an acceptable level. These different methods are substrate choice, flare shape, slots, and feeding connectors. Also, AVA performance can be enhanced by incorporating corrugation, dielectric lens, patch in between two flares of AVA, balanced AVA (BAVA), metamaterial, computational intelligence (CI), and AVA array. The AVA performance enhancement techniques modify the electrical and physical properties of an antenna which in turn improves its performance. A large number of performance enhancement methods of AVA design have been proposed, however, no comprehensive study exists to categorize these performance enhancement techniques and outline their concepts, advantages, disadvantages, and applications. So, in this paper, we have attempted to outline all methods available for enhancing and optimizing the parameters of AVA. Additionally, to validate some of the important performance enhancement methods, they are incorporated in the basic conventional AVA design and further simulation results are obtained for the same which are in line with the surveyed literature. Each method is explained in detail by incorporating its key points, merits, and demerits. Moreover, illustrations from the literature are given to demonstrate improvement in the parameters as a result of applying a particular performance enhancement technique.