EE Research Paper

Title: Diamond power devices: State of the art, modelling and figures of merit

Abstract:
With its remarkable electro-thermal properties such as the highest known thermal conductivity (~22W/cmbold dotK at room temperature) of any material, high hole mobility (&gt; 2000cm2/Vbold dots), high critical electric field (&gt;10MV/cm), and large bandgap (5.47eV), diamond has overwhelming advantages over silicon and other wide bandgap semiconductors (WBG) for ultra-high- voltage and high temperature applications (&gt;3kV and &gt;450 K, respectively). However, despite their tremendous potential, fabricated devices based on this material have not delivered yet the expected high-performance. The main reason behind this is the absence of shallow donor and acceptor species. The second reason is the lack of consistent physical models and design approaches specific to diamond-based devices that could significantly accelerate their development. The third reason is that the best performances of diamond devices are expected only when the highest electric field in reverse bias can be achieved, something that has not been widely obtained yet. In this context, high temperature operation and unique device structures based on the 2DHG formation represent two alternatives which could alleviate the issue of the incomplete ionization of dopant species. Nevertheless, ultra-high temperature operations and device parallelization could result in severe thermal management issues and affect the overall stability and long-term reliability. Additionally, problems connected to the reproducibility and the long-term stability of 2DHG based-devices still need to be resolved. This review paper aims at addressing these issues by providing the power device research community with a detailed set of physical models, device designs and challenges associated to all the aspects of the diamond power device value chain, from the definition of figures of merits, the material growth and processing conditions, to packaging solutions and targeted applications. Finally, the paper will conclude with suggestions on how to design power converters with diamond devices and will provide the roadmap of diamond devices development for power electronics.