# Radio Reconnaissance Platoon

The Radio Reconnaissance Platoon is a specially trained Marine Corps Intelligence element of a United States Marine Corps Radio Battalion. A Radio Reconnaissance Team (RRT) was assigned as the tactical signals intelligence collection element for the Marine Corps Special Operations Command, Detachment One. Regular RRTs also participate in SOC operations during Marine Expeditionary Unit (Special Operations Capable), or MEU(SOC), deployments.

Mission

The mission of the Radio Reconnaissance Platoon is to conduct tactical signals intelligence and electronic warfare operations in support of the Marine Air-Ground Task Force (MAGTF) commander during advance force, pre-assault, and deep post-assault operations, as well as maritime special purpose operations.

The RRT is used when the use of conventionally-trained radio battalion elements is inappropriate or not feasible.

While deployed with a MEU (SOC), the Radio Reconnaissance Team is also a part of the Maritime Special Purpose Force (MSPF) as a unit of the Reconnaissance & Surveillance Element (MSPF). The MSPF is a sub-element of the MEU(SOC), as a whole, and is responsible for performing specialized maritime missions. These missions include, but are not limited to:
 Direct Action Missions
 Maritime interdiction Operations (MIO)
 Deep reconnaissance

Capabilities

 Indications and warnings
 Limited electronic warfare
 Communications support
 Reconnaissance and surveillance via NATO format

Insertion/Extraction Techniques

 Patrolling
 Helicopter Touchdown
 Helocast
 Small Boat (Hard Duck, Soft Duck, Rolled Duck)
 Rappel
 Fast Rope
 Special Patrol Insertion/Extraction (SPIE)
 Wet
 Dry
 Static Line
 Over-the-Horizon Combat Rubber Raiding Craft (CRRC)

SIGINT
 Foreign languages
 Arabic
 Russian
 Korean
 Turkish
 Spanish
 Persian
 Croatian/Serbian/Bosnian
 Morse Code intercept (>20 GPM)
 Analysis and reporting

Training
RRP begins with completion of Army Airborne School, which is followed by the Basic Reconnaissance Course, Survival, Evasion, Resistance and Escape (SERE), and the Radio Reconnaissance Indoctrination Program.

Radio Reconnaissance Instruction Program

The Radio Reconnaissance Instruction Program (RRIP) is the in-house technical training tool used by the RRP to ensure that its Marines are not only tactically proficient in basic reconnaissance skills but technically adept in their respective areas of expertise. The RRIP has a duration of several days that can be dynamically determined to suit the needs of the platoon and its deployment tempo. During the RRIP, an RRP candidate can expect very long and strenuous days. The RRIP culminates in a series of field training exercises (FTX's) from 24 to 72 hours in length.

Advanced training
Advanced training may include:
 US Army Ranger School
 USMC Mountain Survival Course
 USMC Mountain Leader Course
 US Army Jumpmaster Course
 US Army Reconnaissance & Surveillance Leaders Course (RSLC)
 US Army Pathfinder School
 Helicopter Rope Suspension Training (HRST) Masters Course
 Coxswain Course
 Maritime Navigator Course

Organization

There are currently three Radio Battalions, two with their own RRPs. 1st Radio Battalion, I Marine Expeditionary Force (MEF), is located at Camp Pendleton, California. 2nd Radio Battalion, II MEF, is located at Camp Lejeune, North Carolina.

Owing to a restructuring of the entire Radio Battalion organization, the former 1st Radio Battalion, with its RRP, moved from Marine Corps Base Hawaii in Kāneohe Bay to Camp Pendleton in October 2004. The RRP has since been reestablished in 3rd Radio Battalion, Kaneohe HI. The RRTs of 1st and 3rd Radio Battalions still deploy in support of III MEF's 31st Marine Expeditionary Unit Alpha and Bravo cycles based in Okinawa. 1st Radio Battalion also deploys RRT's in support of I MEF's rotating 11th, 13th and 15th Marine Expeditionary Units.

A six-man Radio Reconnaissance Team (RRT) is typically composed of a Team Leader (Staff Sergeant or Sergeant), Assistant Team Leader (Sergeant or Corporal), Point Man, Navigator, Radio-Telegraph Operator (RTO), and Assistant RTO.

History

Lt. General Alfred M. Gray, Jr., Commanding General of Fleet Marine Force, Atlantic (FMFLant) and future Commandant of the Marine Corps, and Lt. Col. Bill Keller, Commanding Officer of 2nd Radio Battalion, FMFLant, met at Marine Corps Air Station Cherry Point in the spring of 1984 to welcome home the returning members of the 2nd Radio Battalion Detachment from Beirut, Lebanon. The Marines of 2ndRadio Battalion had conducted tactical cryptologic operations in support of the entire deployment of the US peacekeeping force in Beirut since the initial landings at Beirut International Airport.

During the wait, Gray and Keller were discussing the various problems faced by the Radio Battalion detachment. Both agreed that the most significant problem was the lack of a tactical cryptologic database available from national and theater assets prior to the Marines' landing in Beirut. Equally significant were the unconventional aspects of the communications networks used by the various factions in Beirut. Those that posed the greatest threat to the Marines did not abide by standard military communications procedures, nor did they follow set frequencies or call signs.

Because the detachment had received no intelligence from the National Security Agency prior to deployment, they were forced to start from scratch upon arrival in Beirut. General Gray wanted to integrate a Force Reconnaissance team with attached Radio Battalion cryptologists, selected and trained for terrestrial reconnaissance and special operations. He directed Lt. Col. Keller to coordinate with 2nd Force Reconnaissance Company to test this idea.

Keller coordinated with the Commanding Officer of 2nd Force Reconnaissance Company, Maj. Joe Crockett. Their initial step was to attach a Radio Battalion Marine, equipped with an AN/GRR-8 receiver to a Force Recon Team during an exercise and see if he could keep up and do something worthwhile. The experiment did not go well, and the concept was tabled until that summer, when Lieutenant Colonel Chuck Gallina became Commanding Officer (CO) of 2nd Radio Bn. General Gray discussed the idea with Gallina, who became a major proponent of the concept.

In December 1984, Captain E.L. Gillespie, a J2 SIGINT Operations Officer in Joint Special Operations Command, arrived at Radio Battalion to develop a concept of operations to integrate Radio Battalion Marines with Force Recon teams for independent advance force operations.

Captain Gillespie submitted a draft "Talking Paper" contending that integration with a four-man Force Recon team was not viable due to conflicting missions. He suggested that a separate six-man Radio Bn team be trained in selected airborne and seaborne insertion/extraction techniques, terrestrial reconnaissance, and survival skills.

The original mission statement for the team was, "To conduct limited communications intelligence and specified electronic warfare operations in support of Force Reconnaissance operations during advance force or special operations missions.''

The initial list of titles for this proposed group was:
 Force Reconnaissance Support Team (FRST)
 Radio Search Team (RST)
 Signal Search Team (SST)
 Special Search Team (SST)
 Radio Research Team (RRT)
 Radio Reconnaissance Team (RRT)
General Gray got the list and personally circled the Radio Reconnaissance Team as the official name for the teams. He then directed the CO of Radio Battalion to screen, select, and train the required personnel to deploy two six-man RRT's for a proof of concept operational deployment during the advance force operational phase of Exercise Solid Shield-85.

He also ensured that the CO of 2nd Force Reconnaissance Company would assist in the personnel selection, training and equipping, and that II MEF's Solid Shield-85 OPLANS, OPORDERS, and Annexes would adequately reflect the integration of the RRT.

Captain Gillespie was directed to immediately commence screening of 2nd Radio Battalion personnel. However, most Radio Battalion Marines did not share the officers' enthusiasm for the project. There was also resistance by Company Commanders, who did not want to allow their best Marines to be assigned to the task. With the exception of the Senior non-commissioned officers and Sergeants, the majority of the Marines provided to form the initial RRT's were "malcontents" waiting to be discharged.

At this time, Major Carrick insisted that all of the RRT candidates must go through the 2nd Force Reconnaissance Company Indoctrination Process (Indoc). Carrick later admitted that the only reason that he insisted on this issue was that he felt that all or most of the Radio Battalion Marines would either quit or fail the Indoc and the project would be put to rest once and for all.

However, all of the RRT candidates passed the Indoc. Captain Gillespie later talked to the Indoc instructors, who indicated that they had