EE Research Paper

Title: A Learning Framework for Size and Type Independent Transient Stability Prediction of Power System Using Twin Convolutional Support Vector Machine

Abstract:
Real-time transient stability assessment (TSA) of power systems is an important real world problem in electrical energy engineering and pattern recognition scope. The definition of most discriminative trajectory features and proper supervised trajectory-based classifier has remained a motivational challenge for scholars vis-à-vis real-time TSA. In addition, increase in the consumption of electrical energy along with constraints such as amortization of network equipment induces electric power system inadequacy risk. The retrieval of power system adequacy involves network expansion planning such as installing new power plants for the network. This policy affects the structure and electrical specification of the network significantly. Furthermore, due to sudden or the scheduled tripping of network equipment stemming from action of protection devices or maintenance procedures, the network must undergo shallow structural changes. The different level of changes in network specification is becoming a potential barrier for network analysis tools like real-time TSA platform. In fact, the lack of consideration of the incompatibility of TSA tool with expansion planning affects the performance of TSA learning model that is trained using the preexpansion network. However, this paradoxical problem can be solved by generalized learning for power system size & type independent (PSs&tInd) real-time TSA. For this purpose, first, we used a set of PSs&tInd trajectory features. Next, we presented a trajectory-based deep neuro classifier to eliminate kernel functions weaknesses plugged into the hyperplane-based classifier. Finally, experimental comparisons were conducted to assess the efficacy of the proposed framework. The results showed that the proposed technique offered high-generalization capacity on real-time TSA during network expansion.