# Rejimen Semboyan Diraja

The  (Royal Signals Regiment) is a combat support regiment of the Malaysian Army. It has the primary responsibility of establishing and maintaining secure military communications channels for the command and tactical elements of the Malaysian Army. It is also responsible for all electronic support, electronic warfare and early warning system for the Malaysian Army.

History of Formation
The Royal Signals Regiment has its roots with the formation of a “Communications Troop” at the Training Depot of the Malay Regiment in Port Dickson in 1949. The Communications Troop was formed by centralising the radiomen of the signals Platoon of 1st, 2nd and 3rd Battalions of Royal Malay Regiment ().

With the expansion of size and roles given and undertaken by the Communications Troop, the unit was renamed the Federation Signals Squadron. The squadron was tasked with the responsibility of meeting all communications requirements of all operational units of the Malay Regiment.

With the formation of the Federation Army Brigade in 1952, the Federation Brigade Signals Squadron was formed. It was later known as Malaysian Signals Regiment. The date of the formation of the Federation Brigade Signals Squadron is the official date of the formation of the Royal Signals Regiment.

For its services rendered to King and country, the Malaysian Signals Regiment was bestowed the title “Royal” on 6 June 1992 and was henceforth known as  (Royal Signals Regiment)

All recruits do their basic military training at an Army Training Centre in Port Dickson. Special-to-arm training is carried out at the Signals School () at Sungei Besi Camp. The school is now known as  (IKED).

Colonel in Chief and Chief Signal Officer
Colonel H.R.H. Tuanku Muhriz ibni Almarhum Tuanku Munawir, Yang di-Pertuan Besar of Negeri Sembilan is the present Colonel-in-Chief of the Regiment.

The present Chief Signals Officer holds the rank of Brigadier General. The current Chief Signals Officer is Brigadier General Dato’ Ts. T.Azharan bin T.Putra who is the 18th Chief Signals Officer.

The first Malaysian Chief Signals Officer was Colonel (later Major General) Leong Siew Meng who was born in  Ipoh, Perak. He was one of Gerald Templer's 12 "Templer Boys". He went to Eaton Hall and Royal Military Academy Sandhurst. He ended his army career as a Major General as Commandant of the National Defense College

Regimental Crest and Motto
The Regimental Crest shows a Tern  ()  denoting the messenger facilitating communications worldwide. The circle with the words “” represents the services and excellence the Regiment has provided to the Malaysian Army. The Regimental Motto is ‘’ (Swift and Sure) and is derived from ,  the motto of the Royal Corps of Signals of the British Army that was instrumental in establishing the Malaysian Royal Signals Regiment. The five-pointed crown is the crown used in the crest of the Royal Malay Regiment, form which the Signals Regiment traces its roots.

The Regimental Flag consists of the Regimental colours which are displayed horizontally. The Regimental colours are (from top to bottom) light blue, dark blue and green, that represents the Army, Air Force and Navy respectively. The three colours are separated by yellow between the light and dark blue, and red between the dark blue and green. The two additional colours portray that the Signal Regiment originates from the Royal Malay Regiment. The logo of the Signal Regiment is placed in the centre of the flag.

Among the roles and responsibilities of the Royal Signals Regiment is to  provide tactical communications, electronic warfare, information warfare (C4ISR) for operational and training needs of the Malaysian Amy. The regiment also provides and maintains all communications and electronics equipment of the army.

Institut Komunikasi dan Elektronik Tentera Darat
The  (IKED) (Army Communications and Electronics Institute) was formed in 1958 with the Training Troop of the Federation Army Signal Squadron to train Malayan signallers in communications. In 1964, the Training Troop was formally re-designated as Signals School. The name was later changed to  to better reflect the changing roles of the Royal Signals Regiment.

IKED administers 23 courses to fulfill the requirements of the Malaysian Army, with 10 courses for Officers and Senior Non-Commissioned Officers. Courses include cryptography and combat signals.  IKED handles 700 to  1,300 trainees annually.

Equipment
Ground Master 400
 Air Surveillance Radar
 S-band, 3D AESA Radar
 Performance:
 Detection range - 5 to 390 km
 Max detection rate in altitude - 30.5 km
 Instrumented range - 470 km
 Electronic Counter-CounterMeasures (ECCM) capability
 Tactical ballistic missile (TBM) detection capability
 Quantity - 1 system

ERA VERA-E
 Air Surveillance Radar
 Passive radiolocator
 Nominal range - 450 km
 Up to 200 targets can be automatically tracked simultaneously
 Capable of detecting stealth aircraft
 Quantity - 2 systems

Selex RAT-31DL
 Air Surveillance Radar
 L-band, 3D phased array radar
 Nominal range - 400 km
 Tactical ballistic missile defence radar
 Quantity - 1 system

Selex RAT-31SL
 Air Surveillance Radar
 S-band, 3D phased array radar
 Nominal range - 450 km
 Quantity - 2 systems

Marconi Martello S-743D
 Air Surveillance Radar
 D-band, 3D radar
 Nominal range - 500 km
 Quantity - 2 systems

Hensoldt (EADS) 
 Air Surveillance Radar
 C-band, 3D phased array radar
 Nominal range - 200 km
 Quantity - 2 systems (option on 8 more)

References

External links
 

Malaysia Army corps and regiments
Military units and formations established in 1949