EE Research Paper

Title: Operational planning steps in smart electric power delivery system

Abstract:
This paper presents a comprehensive review of advanced technologies with various control approaches in terms of their respective merits and outcomes for power grids. Distributed energy storage control is classified into automatic voltage regulator and load frequency control according to corresponding functionalities. These control strategies maintain a power balance between generation and demand. Besides, three basic electric vehicle charging technologies can be distinguished, i.e. stationary, quasi-dynamic and dynamic control. For realizing charge-sustaining operation at minimum cost quasi-dynamic and dynamic strategies are adopted for in-route charging, while stationary control can only be utilized when the electric vehicle is in stationary mode. Moreover, power system frequency stability and stabilization techniques in non-synchronous generator systems are reviewed in the paper. Specifically, a synchronverter can damp power system oscillations and ensure stability by providing virtual inertia. Furthermore, it is crucial to manage the massive information and ensure its security in the smart grid. Therefore, several attack detection and mitigation schemes against cyber-attacks are further presented to achieve reliable, resilient, and stable operation of the cyber-physical power system. Thus, bidirectional electrical power flows with two-way digital control and communication capabilities have poised the energy producers and utilities to restructure the conventional power system into a robust smart distribution grid. These new functionalities and applications provide a pathway for clean energy technology. Finally, future research trends on smart grids such as IoT-based communication infrastructure, distributed demand-response with artificial intelligence and machine learning solutions, and synchrophasor-based wide-area monitoring protection and control (WAMPC) are examined in the present study.