# Estramustine phosphate

Estramustine phosphate (EMP), also known as estradiol normustine phosphate and sold under the brand names Emcyt and Estracyt, is a dual estrogen and chemotherapy medication which is used in the treatment of prostate cancer in men. It is taken multiple times a day by mouth or by injection into a vein.

Side effects of EMP include nausea, vomiting, gynecomastia, feminization, demasculinization, sexual dysfunction, blood clots, and cardiovascular complications. EMP is a dual cytostatic and hence chemotherapeutic agent and a hormonal anticancer agent of the estrogen type. It is a prodrug of estramustine and estromustine in terms of its cytostatic effects and a prodrug of estradiol in relation to its estrogenic effects. EMP has strong estrogenic effects at typical clinical dosages, and consequently has marked antigonadotropic and functional antiandrogenic effects.

EMP was introduced for medical use in the early 1970s. It is available in the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, other European countries, and elsewhere in the world.

Medical uses
EMP is indicated, in the United States, for the palliative treatment of metastatic and/or progressive prostate cancer, whereas in the United Kingdom it is indicated for the treatment of unresponsive or relapsing prostate cancer. The medication is usually reserved for use in hormone-refractory cases of prostate cancer, although it has been used as a first-line monotherapy as well. Response rates with EMP in prostate cancer are said to be equivalent to conventional high-dose estrogen therapy.

Due to its relatively severe side effects and toxicity, EMP has rarely been used in the treatment of prostate cancer. This is especially true in Western countries today. As a result, and also due to the scarce side effects of gonadotropin-releasing hormone modulators (GnRH modulators) like leuprorelin, EMP was almost abandoned. However, encouraging clinical research findings resulted in renewed interest of EMP for the treatment of prostate cancer.

EMP has been used at doses of 140 to 1,400 mg/day orally in the treatment of prostate cancer. However, oral EMP is most commonly used at a dose of 560 to 640 mg/day (280–320 mg twice daily). The recommended dosage of oral EMP in the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) label for Emcyt is 14 mg per kg of body weight (i.e., one 140 mg oral capsule for each 10 kg or 22 lbs of body weight) given in 3 or 4 divided doses per day. The label states that most patients in studies of oral EMP in the United States have received 10 to 16 mg per kg per day. This would be about 900 to 1,440 mg/day for a 90-kg or 200-lb man. Lower doses of oral EMP, such as 280 mg/day, have been found to have comparable effectiveness as higher doses but with improved tolerability and reduced toxicity. Doses of 140 mg/day have been described as a very low dosage. EMP has been used at doses of 240 to 450 mg/day intravenously.

EMP and other estrogens such as polyestradiol phosphate and ethinylestradiol are far less costly than newer therapies such as GnRH modulators, abiraterone acetate, and enzalutamide. In addition, estrogens may offer significant benefits over other means of androgen deprivation therapy, for instance in terms of bone loss and fractures, hot flashes, cognition, and metabolic status.

EMP has been used to prevent the testosterone flare at the start of GnRH agonist therapy in men with prostate cancer.

Available forms
EMP is or has been available in the form of both capsules (140 mg, 280 mg) for oral administration and aqueous solutions (300 mg) for intravenous injection.

Contraindications
EMP is contraindicated when used in children, patients hypersensitive to estrogens or nitrogen mustards, those with peptic ulcer (an ulcer in the digestive tract), those with severely compromised liver function, those with weak heart muscle (also known as myocardial insufficiency) and those with thromboembolic disorders or complications related to fluid retention.

Side effects
The side effects of EMP overall have been described as relatively severe. The most common side effects of EMP have been reported to be gastrointestinal side effects like nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea, with nausea and vomiting occurring in 40% of men. They are usually mild or moderate in severity, and the nausea and vomiting can be managed with prophylactic antiemetic medications. Nonetheless, severe cases of gastrointestinal side effects with EMP may require dose reduction or discontinuation of therapy. Although nausea and vomiting have been reported to be the most common side effects of EMP, gynecomastia (male breast development) has been found to occur in as many as 83% of men treated with EMP, and the incidence of erectile dysfunction is possibly similar to or slightly less than the risk of gynecomastia. As a rule, feminization, a gynoid fat distribution, demasculinization, and impotence are said to occur in virtually or nearly 100% of men treated with high-dose estrogen therapy. Decreased sexual activity has also been reported in men treated with EMP. These side effects are due to high estrogen levels and low testosterone levels. Prophylactic irradiation of the breasts can be used to decrease the incidence and severity of gynecomastia with estrogens.

Severe adverse effects of EMP are thromboembolic and cardiovascular complications including pulmonary embolism, deep vein thrombosis, stroke, thrombophlebitis, coronary artery disease (ischemic heart disease; e.g., myocardial infarction), thrombophlebitis, and congestive heart failure with fluid retention. EMP produces cardiovascular toxicity similarly to diethylstilbestrol, but to a lesser extent in comparison at low doses (e.g., 280 mg/day oral EMP vs. 1 mg/day oral diethylstilbestrol). The prostate cancer disease state also increases the risk of thromboembolism, and combination with docetaxel may exacerbate the risk of thromboembolism as well. Meta-analyses of clinical trials have found that the overall risk of thromboembolism with EMP is 4 to 7%, relative to 0.4% for chemotherapy regimens without EMP. Thromboembolism is the major toxicity-related cause of discontinuation of EMP. Anticoagulant therapy with medications such as aspirin, warfarin, unfractionated and low-molecular-weight heparin, and vitamin K antagonists can be useful for decreasing the risk of thromboembolism with EMP and other estrogens like diethylstilbestrol and ethinylestradiol.

Adverse liver function tests are commonly seen with EMP, but severe liver dysfunction is rare with the medication. Central nervous system side effects are rarely seen with EMP, although enlarged ventricles and neuronal pigmentation have been reported in monkeys treated with very high doses of EMP (20–140 mg/kg/day) for 3 to 6 months. EMP does not appear to have cytostatic effects in normal brain tissue. In women treated with EMP in clinical studies, a few instances of minor gynecological hemorrhages have been observed. EMP is described as relatively well tolerated among cytostatic antineoplastic and nitrogen-mustard agents, rarely or not at all being associated with significant hematologic toxicity such as myelosuppression (bone marrow suppression), gastrointestinal toxicity, or other more marked toxicity associated with such agents. In contrast to most other cytostatic agents, which often cause myelosuppression, leukopenia (decreased white blood cell count), and neutropenia (decreased neutrophil count), EMP actually produces leukocytosis (increased white blood cell count) as a side effect.

In a small low-dose study using 280 mg/day oral EMP for 150 days, tolerability was significantly improved, with gastrointestinal irritation occurring in only 15% of men, and there was no incidence of severe cardiovascular toxicity or deep vein thrombosis. In addition, no other side effects besides slight transient elevated liver enzymes were observed. These findings suggest that lower doses of oral EMP may be a safer option than higher doses for the treatment of prostate cancer. However, a subsequent 2004 meta-analysis of 23 studies of thromboembolic events with EMP found substantial incidence of thromboembolic events regardless of dosage and no association of EMP dose with risk of these complications.

Overdose
There has been no clinical experience with overdose of EMP. Overdose of EMP may result in pronounced manifestations of the known adverse effects of the medication. There is no specific antidote for overdose of EMP. In the event of overdose, gastric lavage should be used to evacuate gastric contents as necessary and treatment should be symptom-based and supportive. In the case of dangerously low counts of red blood cells, white blood cells, or platelets, whole blood may be given as needed. Liver function should be monitored with EMP overdose. After an overdose of EMP, hematological and hepatic parameters should continue to be monitored for at least 6 weeks.

EMP has been used at high doses of as much as 1,260 mg/day by the