EE Research Paper

Title: Liquid Exfoliation of Layered Materials

Abstract:
Background Since at least 400 C.E., when the Mayans first used layered clays to make dyes, people have been harnessing the properties of layered materials. This gradually developed into scientific research, leading to the elucidation of the laminar structure of layered materials, detailed understanding of their properties, and eventually experiments to exfoliate or delaminate them into individual, atomically thin nanosheets. This culminated in the discovery of graphene, resulting in a new explosion of interest in two-dimensional materials. Layered materials consist of two-dimensional platelets weakly stacked to form three-dimensional structures. The archetypal example is graphite, which consists of stacked graphene monolayers. However, there are many others: from MoS 2 and layered clays to more exotic examples such as MoO 3 , GaTe, and Bi 2 Se 3 . These materials display a wide range of electronic, optical, mechanical, and electrochemical properties. Over the past decade, a number of methods have been developed to exfoliate layered materials in order to produce monolayer nanosheets. Such exfoliation creates extremely high-aspect-ratio nanosheets with enormous surface area, which are ideal for applications that require surface activity. More importantly, however, the two-dimensional confinement of electrons upon exfoliation leads to unprecedented optical and electrical properties. Advances An important advance has been the discovery that layered crystals can be exfoliated in liquids. There are a number of methods to do this that involve oxidation, ion intercalation/exchange, or surface passivation by solvents. However, all result in liquid dispersions containing large quantities of nanosheets. This brings considerable advantages: Liquid exfoliation allows the formation of thin films and composites, is potentially scaleable, and may facilitate processing by using standard technologies such as reel-to-reel manufacturing. Although much work has focused on liquid exfoliation of graphene, such processes have also been demonstrated for a host of other materials, including MoS 2 and related structures, layered oxides, and clays. The resultant liquid dispersions have been formed into films, hybrids, and composites for a range of applications. Outlook There is little doubt that the main advances are in the future. Multifunctional composites based on metal and polymer matrices will be developed that will result in enhanced mechanical, electrical, and barrier properties. Applications in energy generation and storage will abound, with layered materials appearing as electrodes or active elements in devices such as displays, solar cells, and batteries. Particularly important will be the use of MoS 2 for water splitting and metal oxides as hydrogen evolution catalysts. In addition, two-dimensional materials will find important roles in printed electronics as dielectrics, optoelectronic devices, and transistors. To achieve this, much needs to be done. Production rates need to be increased dramatically, the degree of exfoliation improved, and methods to control nanosheet properties developed. The range of layered materials that can be exfoliated must be expanded, even as methods for chemical modification must be developed. Success in these areas will lead to a family of materials that will dominate nanomaterials science in the 21st century.