# Daniel Kleppner

Daniel Kleppner, born 1932, is the Lester Wolfe Professor Emeritus of Physics at Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) and co-founder and co-director of the MIT-Harvard Center for Ultracold Atoms. His areas of science include atomic, molecular, and optical physics, and his research interests include experimental atomic physics, laser spectroscopy, and high precision measurements. 

Together with Robert J. Kolenkow, he authored a popular textbook An Introduction to Mechanics for advanced students.

Biography

Parents

Kleppner's father was Otto Kleppner, founder of an advertising agency.

Education and career
Kleppner graduated from Williams College with a B.A. in 1953  in Williamstown, Massachusetts. He also attended Cambridge University in England with a B.A. in 1955, and Harvard University, he attended the Harvard Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, with a Ph.D. in 1959.

In the 1950s, Kleppner became a physics doctoral student at Harvard University, where he worked under Norman Ramsey.
Here, Kleppner took the concepts behind an ammonia maser and applied them to a hydrogen maser, which became his Ph.D. thesis.
Kleppner did important research into Rydberg atoms.

Later he became interested in creating a hydrogen Bose–Einstein condensate (BEC). In 1995, a group of researchers, including Kleppner's former students, made a BEC using rubidium atoms.
It was not until 1998 that Kleppner and Tom Greytak finally created a hydrogen BEC.

Honors and awards 
Kleppner has been the recipient of many awards including

 1991 Lilienfeld Prize, 
 1997 Oersted Medal, 
 2005 Wolf Prize in Physics, 
 2006 National Medal of Science
 2007 Frederic Ives Medal, 
 2014 Benjamin Franklin Medal, and 
 2017 American Physical Society Medal for Exceptional Achievement in Research.  

Within MIT he won the institute's prestigious James R. Killian, Jr. Faculty Achievement Award, conferring him the title of Killian Award Lecturer for 1995-1996.  

He was elected the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1986, the French Academy of Sciences in 2004, and the American Philosophical Society in 2007.

Books 
Kleppner and Robert J. Kolenkow wrote An Introduction to Mechanics in 1973. 40 years later, Kleppner and Kolenkow returned to edit and publish a second edition in 2013.
 
 
 

Kleppner and his thesis adviser (and Nobel laureate) Norman Ramsey wrote the text Quick Calculus, joined for the 3rd edition by MIT professor Peter Dourmashkin:

Selected publications

References

External links 
Faculty page at MIT
Interview with Daniel Kleppner (Video)

1932 births
Living people
Harvard University alumni
21st-century American physicists
Williams College alumni
Optical physicists
Wolf Prize in Physics laureates
Massachusetts Institute of Technology School of Science faculty
National Medal of Science laureates
Members of the French Academy of Sciences
Members of the United States National Academy of Sciences
Fellows of the American Physical Society
Members of the American Philosophical Society
Benjamin Franklin Medal (Franklin Institute) laureates