# NNS Aradu

NNS Aradu (F89)  (meaning "thunder" in Hausa) is a Nigerian frigate. She is the first of the MEKO 360 general purpose frigates built by the German Blohm + Voss company of Hamburg. The  ship is the largest in the Nigerian Navy. As a general purpose frigate, Aradu has capabilities for anti-air, anti-surface and anti-submarine warfare effectively, and participated in the 200th anniversary celebrations of the Battle of Trafalgar. The ship also possesses capability for naval fire support and electronic warfare. Additionally, she carries a ship-borne helicopter for anti-submarine warfare, search and rescue, and enhanced surveillance/detection.

Design and description
The first of the MEKO 360 type frigates, Aradu was constructed using modular prefabrication and containerised weapons and sensors. The first frigate to be built in this manner, this allowed for speedier construction time. The ship measures  at the waterline and  overall with a beam of  and a draught of . The frigate's full load displacement is . The ship is powered by a CODOG system made up of two Rolls-Royce Olympus TM3B gas turbines rated at  giving the ship a maximum speed of  during use and two MTU Type V 956 TH92 diesel engines rated at  with a maximum speed of  under use. The engines turn two Kamewa controllable pitch propellers and the vessel carries  of fuel. This gives the frigate a range of  at , with an endurance of 90 days.

The ship is armed with eight Otomat Mk 1 ship-to-ship missiles carried amidships with four situated behind the mast and forward the twin funnels and two each amidships on each side of the ship. The vessel is also armed with twenty-four Aspide surface-to-air missiles in an octuple launcher mounted atop the hangar. Aradu is armed with one  OTO Melara Otobreda 127/54 Compact gun mounted forward and four twin-mounted Bofors 40 mm guns situated forward behind the 5-inch gun and to either side of the hangar. Aradu also has six STWS-13  torpedo tubes in two triple mounts located amidships on either side of the ship and one  depth charge rack.

Aradu is equipped with Plessey AWS 5 air/surface search radar, Racal Decca 1226 navigation radar, Signaal STIR and WM 25 fire control radar and Atlas Elektronik hull-mounted sonar. The ship originally mounted PHS 32 sonar, but this was later replaced. The frigate mounts two chaff dispensers and Decca RDL-2 electronic support measures. The ship has a hangar and flight deck capable of operation two helicopters of the Westland Lynx Mk.89 type, but usually only carries one. The vessel has a complement of 195, including 26 officers.

Construction and history
The need to have a modern sophisticated frigate to complement and eventually replace the Nigerian Navy's long serving frigate,  became apparent to naval planners in the mid-1970s. NNS Nigeria was fast becoming irrelevant in the fast changing world of naval technology.  The Nigerian Navy needed to reach blue waters with the appropriate ships in terms of firepower, extended operational range and enhanced surveillance capability. The MEKO 360 frigate became the answer to these aspirations. The ship initially named Republic was ordered on 3 November 1977 from Blohm + Voss. Her keel was laid down at Hamburg, West Germany on 1 December 1978 and she was launched on 25 January 1980. On 1 November of the same year, following a new policy of the Nigerian Navy, the frigate was renamed Aradu meaning "thunder". The ship was deemed completed on 4 September 1981. Aradu sailed from its shipyard and arrived at Lagos on 21 December 1981 and was commissioned on 22 February 1982.

Since she entered naval service, NNS Aradu has taken part in major naval exercises, fleet reviews and diplomatic cruises. She played a prominent part in "Operation Seadog" in 1985 and "Operation Odion" in 1987. In 1987, Aradu ran aground twice and was involved in a major collision. The frigate underwent a significant refit in 1991 at Wilmont Point, Lagos with Blohm + Voss aid, lasting until 1994. The ship has undertaken extensive diplomatic visits to countries like Gabon, Congo, Zaire, Equatorial Guinea and numerous European countries. She has also participated in joint exercises with visiting ships of the German, Indian, French and the Brazilian navies. Aradu ran aground again early in 1994 during post refit trials, and was assessed as beyond economical repair in 1995, but then managed to go to sea again in early 1996, and again in 1997 when she broke down for several months in Monrovia, Liberia. She then steamed back to Lagos on one engine in 1998.

Aradu was refitted, refurbished and equipped after being alongshore for over twelve years. The ship proved it was still seaworthy by taking part in celebrations commemorating the 200th anniversary of the Battle of Trafalgar by sailing to Great Britain in August 2005 to join 100 warships from 36 navies. The frigate also participated in two major exercises in 2005 and 2006, called "Igbochi" and "Idabo".

During the Second Liberian Civil War, Aradu patrolled Liberian waters, showing the flag. In a bid to strengthen Nigeria/Brazil military cooperation, two naval ships, Aradu and Nwamba, departed Nigeria on 3 August 2007 to take part in Brazil BiCentenary Celebrations. The ships arrived in Monrovia, Liberia, on 9 August. They were received by the Chief of Defense Staff of Liberia, Major General Abdurahman of the Nigerian Army. From there, they sailed to Recife before entering Rio de Janeiro for the celebrations.

By 2017, the condition of Aradu was reported as "deplorable" and the Nigerian Navy stated that over 250 million dollars were required to make the ship seaworthy. As the Nigerian Navy did not have the funds to make such an investment, Aradu remains dockside.

In late 2019, photographs of Aradu surfaced online which shows the frigate is undergoing a refit at the Naval Dockyard limited in Victoria Island, Lagos. In the photographs, metal sheets were being welded on the lower part of the ship's hull. Also, according to an article published by Military Africa on February 6, 2020, Aradu will be made operational during or before the end of 2020. Furthermore, the report also suggests that Aradu will not be fully refitted for combat operations due to the age and obsolescence of its weapons, fire control and navigational systems, but will now undertake a new mission as a combat training ship for Nigeria's new general-purpose frigate valued at $350 million, expected to be delivered in the coming years.

In April 2021, Nigerian Navy planned to acquire new frigate to replace Aradu and to serve as the new flagship of the navy.

Notes

Citations

References

External links
 Minor Navies of the World (Aradu photo)

Frigates of Nigeria
1980 ships
Meko 360-class frigates of the Nigerian Navy
Ships built in Hamburg