# Glossary of patent law terms

This is a list of legal terms relating to patents and patent law. A patent is not a right to practice or use the invention claimed therein, but a territorial right to exclude others from commercially exploiting the invention, granted to an inventor or his successor in rights in exchange to a public disclosure of the invention.

A

Abandonment
The reply of an applicant to an office action must be made within a prescribed time limit. If no reply is received within the time period, the application may be considered, depending on the jurisdiction, as abandoned or deemed to be withdrawn, and, therefore, no longer pending.

Allowance
A patent is "allowed" when the patent office examiners have determined that the patent application meets the necessary criteria of novelty, non-obviousness, feasibility, and usefulness. The applicants are notified of this certification, and that the patent office is ready to grant the patent once certain fees are paid and paperwork filed by the inventors or assignees. The term is used in the U.S. and some other countries. Few allowed patents are not subsequently granted.

Annuity fee

A fee to be paid to maintain a patent or a patent application in force. Also called "maintenance fee" or "renewal fee".

Application

An application for a patent, or patent application, is a request by a person or company to the competent authority (usually a patent office) to grant him a patent. By extension, a patent application also refers to the content of the document which that person or company filed to initiate the application process. This document usually contains a description of the invention and at least one claim used to define the sought scope of protection.

Arrow declaration

A declaration sought from a court that a product to be launched was old or obvious at a particular date, so that the product cannot be affected by a later granted patent, which would also either lack novelty or inventive step.

Assignor estoppel

In United States patent law, an equitable estoppel barring a patent's seller (assignor) from attacking the patent's validity if he/she is found to have infringed that patent later.

Auslegeschrift

In outdated German patent law, the second reading, or publication, of a patent application.

Author’s certificate
A form of inventor's recognition formerly available in the Soviet Union and a number of Socialist countries. Also called "inventor's certificate".

B

Biogen sufficiency
U.K. law concept according to which, if "the extent of the monopoly claimed [in a patent] exceeds the technical contribution to the art made by the invention as described in the specification", the patent may be revoked on the ground of insufficiency of disclosure. The concept stems from the decision Biogen v. Medeva, issued by the House of Lords on 31 October 1996.

Bolar exemption
See research exemption.

Branching off
Under German patent law, a procedure consisting in deriving a utility model (German: Gebrauchsmuster) from a pending patent application. Also called "derivation". The corresponding German term is Abzweigung.

C

Catch and release
The practice of a patent holding company buying a patent, offering a license to its members and then selling or donating the patent after a certain period of time.

Chapter I
In the Patent Cooperation Treaty (PCT), "Chapter I" refers to the prosecution procedure when no demand under  is made. The states selected under Chapter I by the applicant are called "designated States".

Chapter II
In the PCT, "Chapter II" refers to the prosecution procedure when a demand under  is made. An international preliminary examination is conducted in this case. The demand indicates the Contracting State or States in which the applicant intends to use the results of the international preliminary examination ("elected States").

Claim

A noun phrase defining the extent of the protection conferred by a patent, or the extent of protection sought in a patent application.

Claim chart

A chart often used in the context of patent litigation for analyzing and presenting information regarding a patent claim vis-à-vis an allegedly infringing product or method.

Claim construction
The process of interpreting or explaining the meaning of the terms in a patent claim, especially in the context of patent infringement.

Clearance search and opinion
A search done on issued patents or on pending patent applications to determine if a product or process infringes any of the claims of the issued patents or pending patent applications. These searches and opinions are also called freedom-to-operate searches and opinions. See Patent infringement.

Common general knowledge
A legal concept used notably when assessing whether an invention involves an inventive step, whether the disclosure of the invention is sufficiently clear and complete for a skilled person in the art to be able to carry out the invention, and whether the subject-matter of a prior art disclosure is enabling. The common general knowledge "is the common knowledge in the field to which the invention relates." The information "must be generally known and generally regarded as a good basis for further action by the bulk of those engaged in that art before it becomes part of their common stock of knowledge relating to the art, and so part of the common general knowledge."

Regarding the inventive step assessment, "[if] information is part of the common general knowledge then it forms part of the stock of knowledge which will inform and guide the skilled person's approach to the problem from the outset. It may, for example, affect the steps it will be obvious for him to take, including the nature and extent of any literature search."

Under European practice, "the common general knowledge of the person skilled in the art is, as a general rule, established on the basis of encyclopaedias, textbooks and the like". Exceptionally however, common general knowledge may also be established on the basis of the content of patent specifications "and in particular when a series of patent specifications provides a consistent picture that a particular technical procedure was generally known and belonged to the common general knowledge in the art at the relevant date".

Compulsory license

Using compulsory licenses, a government may force a patent proprietor to grant use to the state or others. Usually, the holder does receive some royalties, either set by law or determined through some form of arbitration.

Continuation-in-part application
Under United States law, a type of continuing application in which the applicant adds subject-matter not disclosed in the parent application, but repeats substantial portion of the parent's specification, and shares at least one inventor with the parent application. See continuing patent application.

Continuing application

In United States law, an active patent application, prior to final action, may give rise to additional applications for additional claims carrying the priority date of the original application.  With the move to published applications, this has become a common way of producing submarine patents.

Contribution approach
Under European patent practice, a legal approach, now abandoned by the European Patent Office (EPO), for assessing whether an invention was patentable. The approach consisted in establishing whether the "contribution to the art" made by the invention was only in a field excluded from patentability by  and, if so, the application could be refused. The EPO now applies the sometimes named "any hardware" or "any technical means" approach, notably formulated in EPO Board of Appeal decisions T 258/03 (Auction Method/Hitachi) and T 424/03 (Microsoft).

Contributory infringement
A form of indirect infringement.

Co-pending applications
Two or more patent applications are said to be co-pending, or copending, if they are both pending before the patent office and have been filed by the same applicant.

D

DAS (Digital Access Service)
A system for exchanging priority documents electronically. Also referred to as "WIPO DAS".

Declaration of non-infringement
A declaration obtained from a court that one's actions do not infringe a particular patent. An action for a declaration of non-infringement may be brought before a court as a preventive measure prior to being sued by a patent proprietor, for example if an infringement suit is believed to be imminent.

Defensive patenting
A practice consisting in "obtaining patents to stake [one's] claim to an area of technology in hopes of preventing other companies from suing them." See also defensive patent aggregation.

Defensive publication

A publication intended to prevent the grant of a patent to a competitor by placing information in the public domain.

Defensive termination

An implicit cross license where the licensor can terminate a patent license if the licensee turns around and sues the licensor for infringing a patent.

Demand letter

A letter sent to a company "seeki