[A Brief History of Mathematics — Cajori — Gutenberg #9296]

If my Dolly, who has not the hundredth part of your understanding, were thus to set herself up in absolute contradiction to my will, in a point so material, I should not take it well of her--indeed I should not. I believe not, Madam: and if Miss Hervey had just such a brother, and just such a sister [you may look, Bella!] and if both were to aggravate her parents, as my brother and sister do mine--then, perhaps, you might use her as I am used: and if she hated the man you proposed to her, and with as much reason as I do Mr. Solmes-- And loved a rake and libertine, Miss, as you do Lovelace, said my sister-- Then might she [continued I, not minding her,] beg to be excused from obeying. Yet if she did, and would give you the most solemn assurances, and security besides, that she would never have the man you disliked, against your consent--I dare say, Miss Hervey's father and mother would sit down satisfied, and not endeavour to force her inclinations. So!--[said my sister, with uplifted hands] father and mother now come in for their share! But if, child, replied my aunt, I knew she loved a rake, and suspected that she sought only to gain time, in order to wire-draw me into a consent-- I beg pardon, Madam, for interrupting you; but if Miss Hervey could obtain your consent, what further would be said? True, child; but she never should. Then, Madam, it would never be. That I doubt, Niece. If you do, Madam, can you think confinement and ill usage is the way to prevent the apprehended rashness? My dear, this sort of intimation would make one but too apprehensive, that there is no trusting to yourself, when one knows your inclination. That apprehension, Madam, seems to have been conceived before this intimation, or the least cause for it, was given. Why else the disgraceful confinement I have been laid under?--Let me venture to say, that my sufferings seem to be rather owing to a concerted design to intimidate me [Bella held up her hands], (knowing there were too good grounds for my opposition,) than to a doubt of my conduct; for, when they were inflicted first, I had given no cause of doubt: nor should there now be room for any, if my discretion might be trusted to. My aunt, after a little hesitation, said, But, consider, my dear, what confusion will be perpetuated in your family, if you marry this hated Lovelace! And let it be considered, what misery to me, Madam, if I marry that hated Solmes! Many a young creature has thought she could not love a man, with whom she has afterwards been very happy. Few women, child, marry their first loves. That may be the reason there are so few happy marriages. But there are few first impressions fit to be encouraged. I am afraid so too, Madam. I have a very indifferent opinion of light and first impressions. But, as I have often said, all I wish for is, to have leave to live single. Indeed you must not, Miss. Your father and mother will be unhappy till they see you married, and out of Lovelace's reach. I am told that you propose to condition with him (so far are matters gone between you) never to have any man, if you have not him. I know no better way to prevent mischief on all sides, I freely own it--and there is not, if he be out of the question, another man in the world I can think favourably of. Nevertheless, I would give all I have in the world, that he were married to some other person--indeed I would, Bella, for all you put on that smile of incredulity. May be so, Clary: but I will smile for all that. If he be out of the question! repeated my aunt--So, Miss Clary, I see how it is--I will go down--[Miss Harlowe, shall I follow you?]--And I will endeavour to persuade your father to let my sister herself come up: and a happier event may then result. Depend upon it, Madam, said my sister, this will be the case: my mother and she will both be in tears; but with this different effect: my mother will come down softened, and cut to the heart; but will leave her favourite hardened, from the advantages she will think she has over my mother's tenderness--why, Madam, it is for this very reason the girl is not admitted into her presence. Thus she ran on, as she went downstairs. END OF VOL. 1