# Detroit–Windsor Truck Ferry

The Detroit–Windsor Truck Ferry was a ferry service that transported trucks across the Detroit River beginning on April 22, 1990.

The service was split between two companies, Detroit–Windsor Truck Ferry, Incorporated of Detroit and CMT Canadian Maritime Transport, Limited of Windsor.

It accepted only trucks. The ferry was the primary crossing for hazardous materials (HAZMAT) trucks between Windsor and La Salle in Ontario, and Detroit and the Downriver communities in Michigan, although other transport trucks could have used it as an alternative to the bridges. Hazardous materials have been banned from the Ambassador Bridge and Detroit–Windsor Tunnel. The nearest alternative crossing that allows hazardous or radioactive materials is the Bluewater Bridge, which connects Port Huron, Michigan, and Sarnia, Ontario.

Similar to all the international crossings in the Detroit–Windsor area, a toll was required, as well as clearance from Canada Border Services Agency and the U.S. Customs and Border Protection at both terminals of the ferry route.

Location 

On the Windsor side of the river, the truck ferry entrance was located at 5550 Maplewood Drive, accessed from Ojibway Parkway via Sprucewood Avenue, near the Windsor Salt Mine.

On the Detroit side of the river, the truck ferry entrance was at 1475 Springwells Court; that street intersects West Jefferson Avenue between South Schroeder Street and South Post Street. The dock was at the mouth of the River Rouge across from Zug Island.

Customs offices were at the entrances, and clearance with Customs was required before embarking onto the truck ferry.

Ferry

The ferry was a flat open non-self propelled barge with a pilot house located on one end. The barge was towed by MV Stormont, a diesel harbor tow tug.

Operating Time

The ferry made 5 trips from each side of the Detroit River from 7am (Detroit side) and 8am (Windsor side) to 3pm (last departure time). A one way crossing took 20 minutes.

The ferry made its final crossing on September 29th, 2023.

References

External links 
 Official Truck Ferry Site

Ferries of Ontario
Ferries of Michigan
Transportation in Detroit
Transport in Windsor, Ontario
Canada–United States border crossings
Detroit River