ME Research Paper

Title: Recent Developments on Silicon Carbide Thin Films for Piezoresistive Sensors Applications

Abstract:
The increasing demand for microelectromechanical systems (MEMS) as, for example, piezoresistive sensors with capabilities of operating at high temperatures, mainly for automotive, petrochemical and aerospace applications, has stimulated the research of alternative materials to silicon in the fabrication of these devices. It is known that the high temperature operating limit for silicon-based MEMS sensors is about 150oC (Fraga, 2009). Silicon carbide (SiC) has shown to be a good alternative to silicon in the development of MEMS sensors for harsh environments due to its excellent electrical characteristics as wide band-gap (3 eV), high breakdown field strength (10 times higher than Si) and low intrinsic carrier concentration which allow stable electronic properties under harsh environments (Cimalla et al., 2007; Wright & Horsfall, 2007; Rajab et al., 2006). In addition, SiC exhibits high elastic modulus at high temperatures which combined with the excellent electronic properties make it very attractive for piezoresistive sensors applications (Kulikovsky et al., 2008). Silicon carbide can be obtained in bulk or film forms. In recent years, great progress has been made in the field of the growth of SiC bulk. Currently there are 6H-SiC, 4H-SiC and 3C-SiC wafers commercially available. However, these wafers are still very expensive (Hobgood et al., 2004; Camassel & Juillaguet, 2007), so encouraging studies on crystalline and amorphous SiC films deposited on silicon or SOI (Silicon-On-Insulator) substrates using appropriate techniques. The use of SiC films besides being less expensive has another advantage which is the well known processing techniques for silicon micromachining. The challenge is to obtain SiC films with mechanical, electrical and piezoresistive properties as good as the bulk form. Nowadays, some research groups have studied the synthesis and characterization of SiC films obtained by different techniques namely, plasma enhanced chemical vapour deposition (PECVD), molecular beam epitaxy (MBE), sputtering, among others, aiming MEMS sensors applications (Chaudhuri et al., 2000; Fissel et al., 1995; Rajagopalan et al., 2003; Lattemann et al., 2003).