# Total ring of fractions

In abstract algebra, the total quotient ring or total ring of fractions is a construction that generalizes the notion of the field of fractions of an integral domain to commutative rings R that may have zero divisors. The construction embeds R in a larger ring, giving every non-zero-divisor of R an inverse in the larger ring.  If the homomorphism from R to the new ring is to be injective, no further elements can be given an inverse.

Definition 

Let  be a commutative ring and let  be the set of elements which are not zero divisors in ; then  is a multiplicatively closed set. Hence we may localize the ring  at the set  to obtain the total quotient ring .

If  is a domain, then  and the total quotient ring is the same as the field of fractions. This justifies the notation , which is sometimes used for the field of fractions as well, since there is no ambiguity in the case of a domain.

Since  in the construction contains no zero divisors, the natural map  is injective, so the total quotient ring is an extension of .

Examples 

For a product ring , the total quotient ring  is the product of total quotient rings . In particular, if A and B are integral domains, it is the product of quotient fields.

For the ring of holomorphic functions on an open set D of complex numbers, the total quotient ring is the ring of meromorphic functions on D, even if D is not connected.

In an Artinian ring, all elements are units or zero divisors. Hence the set of non-zero-divisors is the group of units of the ring, , and so . But since all these elements already have inverses, . 

In a commutative von Neumann regular ring R, the same thing happens. Suppose a in R is not a zero divisor. Then in a von Neumann regular ring a = axa for some x in R, giving the equation a(xa − 1) = 0. Since a is not a zero divisor, xa = 1, showing a is a unit. Here again, .

In algebraic geometry one considers a sheaf of total quotient rings on a scheme, and this may be used to give the definition of a Cartier divisor.

The total ring of fractions of a reduced ring 

Proof: Every element of Q(A) is either a unit or a zero divisor. Thus, any proper ideal I of Q(A) is contained in the set of zero divisors of Q(A); that set equals the union of the minimal prime ideals  since Q(A) is reduced.  By prime avoidance, I must be contained in some . Hence, the ideals  are maximal ideals of Q(A).  Also, their intersection is zero. Thus, by the Chinese remainder theorem applied to Q(A), 
.
Let S be the multiplicatively closed set of non-zero-divisors of A.  By exactness of localization, 
,
which is already a field and so must be .

Generalization 

If  is a commutative ring and  is any multiplicatively closed set in , the localization  can still be constructed, but the ring homomorphism from  to  might fail to be injective.  For example, if , then  is the trivial ring.

Citations

References

Commutative algebra
Ring theory

de:Lokalisierung_(Algebra)#Totalquotientenring