# Wallace Wolodarsky

Wallace Wolodarsky, also billed as Wally Wolodarsky, is an American actor, screenwriter, television producer, and film director known for being one of the writers for The Simpsons during the first four seasons with his writing partner Jay Kogen.

He is also known for co-writing films like Infinitely Polar Bear, A Dog’s Purpose, Monsters vs. Aliens and Trolls World Tour alongside his spouse Maya Forbes.

Career
Wolodarsky has starred in and directed several films. He has acted in multiple Wes Anderson films (Rushmore, The Darjeeling Limited, Fantastic Mr. Fox, The Grand Budapest Hotel and The French Dispatch) as well as several other films  (A Dog's Purpose, Seeing Other People and The Polka King.)

Personal life
Wolodarsky has 2 children. His wife, Maya Forbes, is the sister of singer China Forbes.

Wolodarsky is Jewish.

Filmography

The Simpsons episodes 
He co-wrote the following Simpsons episodes:

"Homer's Odyssey"
"Krusty Gets Busted"
"Treehouse of Horror"
"Bart the Daredevil"
"Old Money"
"Like Father, Like Clown"
"Lisa the Greek"
"Bart's Friend Falls in Love"
"Treehouse of Horror III"
"Last Exit to Springfield"

The recurring Simpsons character Otto Mann was modeled on Wolodarsky's appearance.

References

External links

Place of birth missing (living people)
Year of birth missing (living people)
Living people
20th-century American Jews
20th-century American male actors
20th-century American male writers
20th-century American screenwriters
21st-century American Jews
21st-century American male actors
21st-century American male writers
21st-century American screenwriters
American comedy writers
American film directors
American film producers
American male film actors
American male screenwriters
American male television writers
American male voice actors
American television producers
American television writers
Comedy film directors
DreamWorks Animation people
Forbes family
Jewish American comedy writers
Jewish American film directors
Jewish American film producers
Jewish American screenwriters
Jewish American television producers
Jewish American writers
Jewish male actors
Primetime Emmy Award winners
Writers Guild of America Award winners