# New Zealand Bill of Rights Act 1990

The New Zealand Bill of Rights Act 1990 (sometimes known by its acronym, NZBORA or simply BORA) is a statute of the Parliament of New Zealand part of New Zealand's uncodified constitution that sets out the rights and fundamental freedoms of anyone subject to New Zealand law as a bill of rights, and imposes a legal requirement on the attorney-general to provide a report to parliament whenever a bill is inconsistent with the bill of rights.

The High Court of New Zealand in Taylor v Attorney-General issued an unprecedented declaration that the restriction on prisoners voting rights was a limit on their right to vote in genuine periodic elections, and that it had not been unjustified under NZBORA. On appeal, the Supreme Court later confirmed that senior courts had jurisdiction to make such a declaration, and in 2022 a law was passed to establish procedures to allow and require the New Zealand Government a reporting and response mechanism to inconsistency declarations.

History
In 1985, Minister of Justice Geoffrey Palmer tabled in Parliament a document titled A Bill of Rights for New Zealand: A White Paper. The paper proposed a number of controversial features, which sparked widespread debate:
 The Bill of Rights was to become entrenched law so that it could not be amended or repealed without a 75% majority vote in the House of Representatives or a simple majority in a public referendum;
The Bill of Rights was to therefore have status as supreme law, thereby causing some erosion to the doctrine of parliamentary sovereignty;
The Treaty of Waitangi was to be wholly incorporated within the Bill of Rights thus elevating the Treaty's status to that of supreme law;
The Judiciary would have the power to invalidate any Act of Parliament, common law rule or official action which was contrary to the Bill of Rights.
 
The Bill then went to the Justice and Law Reform Select Committee, which recommended that New Zealand was "not yet ready" for a Bill of Rights in the form proposed by the White Paper. The Committee recommended that the Bill of Rights be introduced as an ordinary statute, which would not have the status of superior or entrenched law.

In its current form, the Bill of Rights is similar to the Canadian Bill of Rights, passed in 1960. The Act does create an atmospheric change in New Zealand law in that it provides judges the means to "interpret around" other acts to ensure enlarged liberty interests. The Bill of Rights has a liberty-maximising clause much like the Ninth Amendment to the United States Constitution, and this provides many opportunities for creative interpretation in favour of liberties and rights.

Application of the Bill of Rights
The Act applies only to acts done by the three branches of government (the legislature, executive and judiciary) of New Zealand, or by any person or body in the "performance of any public function, power, or duty" imposed by the law.

In section 4 of the Act, it explicitly denies the Bill of Rights any supremacy over other legislation. The section states that Courts looking at cases under the Act cannot implicitly repeal or revoke, or make invalid or ineffective, or decline to apply any provision of any statute made by parliament, whether before or after the Act was passed because it is inconsistent with any provision of this Bill of Rights. However, in contrast, where another Act can be interpreted that is consistent with the bill of rights, the courts are obliged to use the most consistent interpretation through section 6 of NZBORA.

Further, in section 5, one of the core provisions in the Act allows for 'justified limitations' on the rights guaranteed throughout the bill of rights. It says that the rights are "subject only to such reasonable limits prescribed by law as can be demonstrably justified in a free and democratic society", which is the same wording as in Canada's Charter of Rights and Freedoms.

Reports of the attorney-general 

Under section 7 of the bill of rights, the attorney-general legally required to draw to the attention of parliament the introduction of any bill that is inconsistent with the bill of rights. The Ministry of Justice, which prepares this advice for the attorney-general, requires a minimum of two weeks to review the draft legislation.

Civil and Political Rights 

Part II of the Act covers a broad range of Civil and Political Rights.

Life and the Security of the Person
As part of the right to life and security of the person, the Act guarantees everyone:
The right not to be deprived of life except in accordance with fundamental justice (Section 8)
The right not to be subjected to torture or to cruel, degrading, or disproportionately severe treatment or punishment (Section 9)
The right not to be subjected to medical or scientific experimentation without  consent (Section 10)
The right to refuse to undergo any medical treatment except in the case of involuntary commitment (Section 11)

Democratic and Civil Rights
Electoral Rights
The Act sets out the electoral rights of New Zealanders. The Act guarantees that every New Zealand citizen who is of or over the age of 18 years has:
The right to vote in elections of members of Parliament, which shall be held by equal suffrage and by secret ballot (Section 12(a))
Has the right to become a member of the House of Representatives (Section 12(b))
Furthermore, the Act guarantees everyone:
Freedom of Thought, Conscience, and Religion
The right to freedom of thought, conscience, religion, and belief, including the right to adopt and hold opinions without interference (Section 13)
Freedom of expression
The right to freedom of expression, including the freedom to seek, receive, and impart information and opinions of any kind in any form (Section 14)
Religion and Belief
The right to manifest that person's religion or belief in worship, observance, practice, or teaching, either individually or in community with others, and either in public or in private (Section 15)
Assembly
The right of peaceful assembly (Section 16)
Association
The right to freedom of association (Section 17)
Movement
The right to freedom of movement and residence in New Zealand. (Section 18(1))
The Act guarantees to every New Zealand citizen:
The right to enter New Zealand (Section 18(2))
The Act guarantees everyone:
The right to leave New Zealand (Section 18(3))
The Act also (Section 18(4)) ensures that non-New Zealand citizens lawfully in New Zealand shall not be required to leave except under a decision taken on grounds prescribed by law.

Non-Discrimination and Minority Rights 
Section 19 of the Act guarantees freedom from discrimination, on the grounds of discrimination set out in the Human Rights Act 1993. Section 20 provides protection for the culture, religion, and language of individuals who belong to ethnic, religious and linguistic minorities.

Search, Arrest, and Detention
The Act guarantees everyone:
The right to be secure against unreasonable search or seizure, whether of the person, property, or correspondence, or otherwise (Section 21)
The right not to be arbitrarily arrested or detained (Section 22)
Everyone who is arrested or who is detained has the right to:
Be informed at the time of the arrest or detention of the reason for it; and
Consult and instruct a lawyer without delay and to be informed of that right; and
Have the validity of the arrest or detention determined without delay by way of habeas corpus and to be released if the arrest or detention is not lawful.
Everyone who is arrested for an offence has the right to be charged promptly or to be released. 
Everyone who is arrested or detained for any offence or suspected offence shall have the right to:
Refrain from making any statement and to be informed of that right.
Everyone deprived of liberty has the right to be treated with humanity and with respect for the inherent dignity of the person (Section 23).

Criminal Justice
The Act requires that everyone who is charged with an offence:
Shall be informed promptly and in detail of the nature and cause of the charge; and
Shall be released on reasonable terms and conditions unless there is just cause for continued detention; and
Shall have the right to consult and instruct a lawyer; and
Shall have the right to adequate time and facilities to prepare a defence; and
Shall have the right, except in the case of an offence under military law tried before a military tribunal, to the benefit of a trial by jury when the penalty for the offence is or includes imprisonment for more than 3 months; and
Shall have the right to receive legal assistance without cost if the interests of justice so require and the person does not have sufficient means to provide for that assistance; and
Shall have the right to have the free assistance of an interpreter if the person cannot understand or speak the language used in court. (Section 24)

Fair Trial
Everyone who is charged with an offence has the minimum right:
To a fair and public hearing by an independen