[A Brief History of Mathematics — Cajori — Gutenberg #9296]

first began as if I expected a denial, and by my indulgence brought it upon myself. Do not, my dearest Mamma! do not say so! Were the occasion for this debate, proceeded she, to have risen from myself; were it in my power to dispense with your compliance; you too well know what you can do with me. Would any body, my dear Miss Howe, wish to marry, who sees a wife of such a temper, and blessed with such an understanding as my mother is noted for, not only deprived of all power, but obliged to be even active in bringing to bear a point of high importance, which she thinks ought not to be insisted upon? When I came to you a second time, proceeded she, knowing that your opposition would avail you nothing, I refused to hear your reasons: and in this I was wrong too, because a young creature who loves to reason, and used to love to be convinced by reason, ought to have all her objections heard: I now therefore, this third time, see you; and am come resolved to hear all you have to say: and let me, my dear, by my patience engage your gratitude; your generosity, I will call it, because it is to you I speak, who used to have a mind wholly generous.--Let me, if your heart be really free, let me see what it will induce you to do to oblige me: and so as you permit your usual discretion to govern you, I will hear all you have to say; but with this intimation, that say what you will, it will be of no avail elsewhere. What a dreadful saying is that! But could I engage your pity, Madam, it would be somewhat. You have as much of my pity as of my love. But what is person, Clary, with one of your prudence, and your heart disengaged? Should the eye be disgusted, when the heart is to be engaged?--O Madam, who can think of marrying when the heart is shocked at the first appearance, and where the disgust must be confirmed by every conversation afterwards? This, Clary, is owing to your prepossession. Let me not have cause to regret that noble firmness of mind in so young a creature which I thought your glory, and which was my boast in your character. In this instance it would be obstinacy, and want of duty.--Have you not made objections to several-- That was to their minds, to their principles, Madam.--But this man-- Is an honest man, Clary Harlowe. He has a good mind. He is a virtuous man. He an honest man? His a good mind, Madam? He a virtuous man?-- Nobody denies these qualities. Can he be an honest man who offers terms that will rob all his own relations of their just expectations?--Can his mind be good-- You, Clary Harlowe, for whose sake he offers so much, are the last person who should make this observation. Give me leave to say, Madam, that a person preferring happiness to fortune, as I do; that want not even what I have, and can give up the use of that, as an instance of duty-- No more, no more of your merits!--You know you will be a gainer by that cheerful instance of your duty; not a loser. You know you have but cast your bread upon the waters--so no more of that!--For it is not understood as a merit by every body, I assure you; though I think it a high one; and so did your father and uncles at the time-- At the time, Madam!--How unworthily do my brother and sister, who are afraid that the favour I was so lately in-- I hear nothing against your brother and sister--What family feuds have I in prospect, at a time when I hoped to have most comfort from you all! God bless my brother and sister in all their worthy views! You shall have no family feuds if I can prevent them. You yourself, Madam, shall tell me what I shall bear from them, and I will bear it: but let my actions, not their misrepresentations (as I am sure by the disgraceful prohibitions I have met with has been the case) speak for me. Just then, up came my father, with a sternness in his looks that made me tremble.--He took two or three turns about my chamber, though pained by his gout; and then said to my mother, who was silent as soon as she saw him-- My dear, you are long absent.--Dinner is near ready. What you had to say, lay in a very little compass. Surely, you have nothing to do but to declare your will, and my will--But perhaps you may be talking of the preparations--Let us have you soon down--Your daughter in your hand, if worthy of the name. And down he went, casting his eye upon me with a look so stern, that I was unable to say one word to him, or even for a few minutes to my mother. Was not this very intimidating, my dear? My mother, seeing my concern, seemed to pity me. She called me her good child, and kissed me; and told me that my father should not know I had made such opposition. He has kindly furnished us with an excuse for being so long together, said she.--Come, my dear--dinner will be upon table presently--Shall we go down?--And took my hand. This made me start: What, Madam, go down to let it be supposed we were talking of preparations!--O my beloved Mamma, command me not down upon such a supposition. You see, child, that to stay longer together, will be owning that you are debating about an absolute duty; and that will not be borne. Did not your father himself some days ago tell you, he would be obeyed? I will a third time leave you. I must say something by way of excuse for you: and that you desire not to go down to dinner--that your modesty on the occasion-- O Madam! say not my modesty on such an occasion: for that will be to give hope-- And design you not to give hope?--Perverse girl!--Rising and flinging from me; take more time for consideration!--Since it is necessary, take more time--and when I see you next, let me know what blame I have to cast upon myself, or to bear from your father, for my indulgence to you. She made, however, a little stop at the chamber-door; and seemed to expect that I would have besought her to make the gentlest construction for me; for, hesitating, she was pleased to say, I suppose you would not have me make a report-- O Madam, interrupted I, whose favour can I hope for if I lose my mamma's? To have desired a favourable report, you know, my dear, would have been qualifying upon a point that I was too much determined upon, to give room for any of my friends to think I have the least hesitation about it. And so my mother went down stairs. I will deposit thus far; and, as I know you will not think me too minute in the relation of particulars so very interesting to one you honour with your love, proceed in the same way. As matters stand, I don't care to have papers, so freely written, about me. Pray let Robert call every day, if you can spare him, whether I have any thing ready or not. I should be glad you would not send him empty handed. What a generosity will it be in you, to write as frequently from friendship, as I am forced to do from misfortune! The letters being taken away will be an assurance that you have them. As I shall write and deposit as I have opportunity, the formality of super and sub-scription will be excused. For I need not say how much I am Your sincere and ever affectionate, CL. HARLOWE. LETTER XVII MISS CLARISSA HARLOWE, TO MISS HOWE My mother, on her return, which was as soon as she had dined, was pleased to inform me, that she told my father, on his questioning her about my cheerul compliance (for, it seems, the cheerful was all that was doubted) that she was willing, on so material a point, to give a child whom she had so much reason to love (as she condescended to acknowledge were her words) liberty to say all that was in her heart to say, that her compliance might be the freer: letting him know, that when he came up, she was attending to my pleas; for that she found I had rather not marry at all. She told me, that to this my father angrily said, let her take care--let her take care--that she give me not ground to suspect her of a preference somewhere else. But, if it be to ease her heart, and not to dispute my will, you may hear her out. So, Clary, said my mother, I am returned in a temper accordingly: and I hope you will not again, by your peremptoriness, shew me how I ought to treat you. Indeed, Madam, you did me justice to say, I have no inclination to marry at all. I have not, I hope, made myself so very unuseful in my papa's family, as-- No more of your merits, Clary! You have been a good child. You have eased me of all the family cares: but do not now give more than ever you relieved me from. You have been amply repaid in the reputation your skill and management have given you: but now there is soon to be a period to all those assistances from you. If you marry, there will be a natural, and, if to please us, a desirable period; because your own family will employ all your talents in that way: if you do not, there will be a period likewise, but not a natural one--you understand me, child. I wept. I have made inquiry already after a housekeeper. I would have had your good Norton; but I suppose you will yourself wish to have the worthy woman with you. If you desire it, that shall be agreed upon for you. But, why, dearest Madam, why am I, the youngest, to be precipitated into a state, that I am very far from wishing to enter into with any body? You are going to question me, I suppose, why your sister is not thought of for Mr. Solmes? I hope, Madam, it will not displease you if I were. I might refer you for an answer to your father.--Mr. Solmes has reasons for preferring you-- And I have reasons, Madam,