# Monoidal functor

In category theory, monoidal functors are functors between monoidal categories which preserve the monoidal structure. More specifically, a monoidal functor between two monoidal categories consists of a functor between the categories, along with two coherence maps—a natural transformation and a morphism that preserve monoidal multiplication and unit, respectively.  Mathematicians require these coherence maps to satisfy additional properties depending on how strictly they want to preserve the monoidal structure; each of these properties gives rise to a slightly different definition of monoidal functors

 The coherence maps of lax monoidal functors satisfy no additional properties; they are not necessarily invertible.
 The coherence maps of strong monoidal functors are invertible.
 The coherence maps of strict monoidal functors are identity maps.

Although we distinguish between these different definitions here, authors may call any one of these simply monoidal functors.

Definition 
Let  and  be monoidal categories.  A lax monoidal functor from  to  (which may also just be called a monoidal functor) consists of a functor  together with a natural transformation

from functors  to  and a morphism
,
called the coherence maps or structure morphisms, which are such that for every three objects ,  and  of  the diagrams
,

    and    
commute in the category .   Above, the various natural transformations denoted using  are parts of the monoidal structure on  and .

Variants 

 The dual of a monoidal functor is a comonoidal functor; it is a monoidal functor whose coherence maps are reversed. Comonoidal functors may also be called opmonoidal, colax monoidal, or oplax monoidal functors.
 A strong monoidal functor is a monoidal functor whose coherence maps  are invertible.
 A strict monoidal functor is a monoidal functor whose coherence maps are identities.
 A braided monoidal functor is a monoidal functor between braided monoidal categories (with braidings denoted ) such that the following diagram commutes for every pair of objects A, B in  :

 A symmetric monoidal functor is a braided monoidal functor whose domain and codomain are symmetric monoidal categories.

Examples 
 The underlying functor  from the category of abelian groups to the category of sets.  In this case, the map  sends (a, b) to ; the map  sends  to 1.
 If  is a (commutative) ring, then the free functor  extends to a strongly monoidal functor  (and also  if  is commutative).
 If  is a homomorphism of commutative rings, then the restriction functor  is monoidal and the induction functor  is strongly monoidal.
 An important example of a symmetric monoidal functor is the mathematical model of topological quantum field theory, which has been recently developed. Let  be the category of cobordisms of n-1,n-dimensional manifolds with tensor product given by disjoint union, and unit the empty manifold. A topological quantum field theory in dimension n is a symmetric monoidal functor 
 The homology functor is monoidal as  via the map .

Alternate notions
If  and  are closed monoidal categories with internal hom-functors  (we drop the subscripts for readability), there is an alternative formulation 
 ψAB : F(A ⇒ B) → FA ⇒ FB
of φAB commonly used in functional programming. The relation between ψAB and φAB is illustrated in the following commutative diagrams:

Properties

 If  is a monoid object in , then  is a monoid object in .

Monoidal functors and adjunctions 
Suppose that a functor  is left adjoint to a monoidal . Then  has a comonoidal structure  induced by , defined by

and
.

If the induced structure on  is strong, then the unit and counit of the adjunction are monoidal natural transformations, and the adjunction is said to be a monoidal adjunction; conversely, the left adjoint of a monoidal adjunction is always a strong monoidal functor.

Similarly, a right adjoint to a comonoidal functor is monoidal, and the right adjoint of a comonoidal adjunction is a strong monoidal functor.

See also 
 Monoidal natural transformation

References 

Monoidal categories