# The Phynx

The Phynx is a 1970 American comedy film directed by Lee H. Katzin about a rock and roll band named The Phynx and their mission in foreign affairs. The group is sent to Albania to locate celebrity hostages taken prisoner by Communists. The last part of the film, supposedly set in Albania, was filmed in the Spanish city of Ávila, recognizable by its medieval walls.

This turned out to be the final film appearance for several of the veteran performers in the cast, including Leo Gorcey, George Tobias and Marilyn Maxwell.

History
The Phynx received an extremely limited release, and has since become something of an obscure, rarely seen cult film; bootleg copies for many years turned up on auction websites before Warner Archive officially released the film on DVD in October 2012.

Plot
Four young men, the members of the Phynx rock group, are assigned to recover a number of famous American citizens that have been lured to Albania and then trapped behind a tall wall, threatened by the country’s solitary tank, and cannot leave. The Phynx must find the secret map to infiltrate the castle. It is printed in parts on three different women’s stomachs in three different European countries. To discover the girls marked with the maps, the Phynx must have sex with hundreds of girls. Their labors are lessened when in Rome they are given X-ray glasses, which visually strip the girls down to their underwear.
Finally, the four get into the castle and hatch a plot to hide the celebrities in wagons of radishes, topple the enclosing wall with hundreds of electric guitars, and escape.

Cast
 The Phynx... Themselves
 A. "Michael" Miller
 Ray Chippeway
 Dennis Larden
 Lonny Stevens
 Lou Antonio... Corrigan
 Mike Kellin... Bogey
 Michael Ansara... Col. Rostinov
 George Tobias... Markevitch
 Joan Blondell... Ruby
 Martha Raye... Foxy
 Larry Hankin... Philbaby
 Pat McCormick... Father O'Hoolihan
 Ultra Violet... Felice
 Rich Little... Voice in Box
 Susan Bernard... London Belly
 Sally Struthers... World's No. 1 Fan

Cameos

Patty Andrews
Rona Barrett
Edgar Bergen and Charlie McCarthy
Busby Berkeley
James Brown
Dick Clark
Xavier Cugat
Cass Daley
Andy Devine
Fritz Feld
Leo Gorcey (in his final film role, released after his death.)
Huntz Hall
John Hart (as The Lone Ranger)
Louis Hayward
George Jessel
Ruby Keeler
Patsy Kelly
Dorothy Lamour
Guy Lombardo
Trini Lopez
Joe Louis
Marilyn Maxwell (in her final film role)
Butterfly McQueen
Pat O'Brien
Maureen O'Sullivan
Richard Pryor
Harold Sakata
Colonel Sanders
Jay Silverheels (as Tonto)
Ed Sullivan
Rudy Vallee
Clint Walker
Johnny Weissmuller

Significance
This was Gorcey and Hall's final time they appeared in a film together; the duo made dozens of films together as The Dead End Kids, East Side Kids, and The Bowery Boys from the 1930s to the 1950s.

See also
 List of American films of 1970
 Top Secret! (1984)

References

External links
 
 
 
 
 

1970 films
1970s English-language films
Films about music and musicians
Films directed by Lee H. Katzin
Films set in Albania
Warner Bros. films
American spy comedy films
1970s spy comedy films
Cold War spy films
Films shot in the province of Ávila
1970 comedy films
1970s American films