# Emmaus High School

Emmaus High School is a large public high school located in Emmaus, Pennsylvania. The school serves grades 9-12 in Pennsylvania's East Penn School District in the Lehigh Valley region of eastern Pennsylvania.

Emmaus High School is located immediately off Cedar Crest Boulevard, at 500 Macungie Avenue in Emmaus, a borough  miles south of Allentown, Pennsylvania.

Student population
As of the 2021–22 school year, Emmaus High School had a student enrollment of 2,836 students and 151.62 classroom teachers on an FTE basis for a student–teacher ratio of 18.7, according to National Center for Education Statistics data. There were 587 students eligible for free lunch and 88 eligible for reduced cost lunch.

Emmaus High School serves students grades nine through 12 from Emmaus, six surrounding townships of Alburtis, Lower Macungie, Macungie, Upper Milford, Vera Cruz, and Wescosville, seven surrounding unincorporated villages of East Texas, Hensingersville, Old Zionsville, Powder Valley, Shimerville, Sigmund, and Zionsville, and the census-designated place of Ancient Oaks, all located in the Lehigh Valley, the third most populated metropolitan region of Pennsylvania.

The school ranks among the top Lehigh Valley public high schools in its percentage of graduating students who pursue post-secondary education. Among its Class of 2007, 79 percent of Emmaus High School graduates entered colleges, universities, or other post-graduate education. The school also maintains a program for academically gifted students, which includes advanced classes and a mentorship program.  Noting the academic quality of Emmaus High School, Money magazine named Emmaus one of the nation's "Top 100" places to live in 2007 and again in 2009.

Two middle schools (Eyer Middle School and Lower Macungie Middle School), both located in Macungie, serve grades six through eight and feed into Emmaus High School. Seven elementary schools (Alburtis, Wescosville, Lincoln, Jefferson, Macungie, Shoemaker, and Willow Lane) and one elementary charter school (Seven Generations Charter School) feed into the two middle schools and then Emmaus High School.

History

1880s to 1955
What today is the East Penn School District began in the 1880s as the Emaus School District, using the Pennsylvania Dutch spelling of Emmaus, named for the Biblical village of Emmaus, where, according to the Bible's Gospel of Luke, Jesus was seen by his disciples Luke and Cleopas in what is known as his Road to Emmaus appearance following his crucifixion and resurrection. Upon its founding in the 1880s, Emaus School District began offering high school classes, providing education up to tenth grade in one of the rooms of a four-room school building on East Main Street in Emmaus. The first graduating class on record was the Emaus High School class of 1890 with two graduates. The following year, in 1891, the high school grades were moved to the Central Building on Emmaus's Ridge Street.

Emaus High School obtained its own home when, in 1915, the high school moved into a brand new building on North Street between Fifth and Sixth Streets in Emaus. While the building was designated the Jefferson Building, yearbooks of the era identify the school as Emaus High School. By this time, the high school was made up of tenth-grade (juniors), eleventh-grade (middlers) and twelfth-grade (seniors). The yearbook of the class of 1916 pictures 18 graduates, evenly divided between boys and girls. The Emaus High School class of 1931 had 45 graduates. One of the bygone features of Emaus High School life on North Street was open lunch where students could walk home for lunch or go across the street to a student-oriented restaurant.

The Jefferson Building was enlarged several times. By 1934, it was considered a state-of-the-art high school with 16 classrooms, a library, an auditorium, a gymnasium, a woodshop, and a home economics room. It also developed many of the activities and athletic teams that continue to this day; the 1931 yearbook lists a band, chorus, orchestra (55 student members), 16 different clubs, and teams for football, basketball (boys and girls), and debate. Emaus High School's main football rival at this time was East Greenville High School (now Upper Perkiomen High School), which met Emmaus annually on Thanksgiving Day in what was referred to as the "Turkey Day" game. In the 1930s, the Emaus High School football field was located roughly a mile from the high school at the site of Emmaus's current recreational Fourth Street Field.

The Emaus School District has been operating since at least 1861. By the 1930s and 1940s, the boroughs of Macungie and Alburtis contracted with the Emaus district to send their high school students to Emaus High School. There were no school buses, and out-of-borough students commuted to and from the high school by Reading Railroad passenger train service at the Emaus train station. Located on Jubilee Street, the station was constructed in the late 19th century, decommissioned, and destroyed by fire on March 1, 1993.

Emaus High School becomes Emmaus High School
In 1938, Emmaus abandoned the Pennsylvania Dutch spelling of its name in favor of the town's current spelling, and East Penn School District and the high school followed suit. With Emmaus High School's population growing rapidly, the Jefferson Building could no longer accommodate the growing school's needs. The boroughs of Emmaus, Macungie, and Alburtis and the townships of Lower Macungie, and Upper Milford merged their school districts into what was then called the East Penn Union School District and is now known as East Penn School District. The unified district combined their efforts and resources to vastly expand Emmaus High School, which was constructed at the school's current location at 500 Macungie Avenue in Emmaus. Several times since Emmaus High School has been upgraded and renovated to accommodate its growing student population.

1955 to current 
In 1955, the first sections of the new Emmaus High School opened. The new building included an auditorium and gymnasium, which far surpassed those of the old building and included science labs, language labs, and a natatorium. After the high school moved out of the Jefferson Building, that building was briefly used as Emmaus Junior High School until a seventh and eighth-grade wing was added to the new high school building around 1960, making Emmaus High School a six-year school with a single principal but with separate assistant principals for the senior high and junior high grades. In 1965, the Emmaus Junior High School building, with its own faculty and administration, opened on the north side of the high school building to serve grades seven through nine. The Jefferson Building, in turn, was designated as one of several East Penn School District elementary schools.

By the early 1960s, the number of sports teams at Emmaus High School expanded to include baseball, football, and wrestling for boys, cross country, field hockey and softball for girls, and basketball, golf, rifle, swimming, and track and field for both boys and girls. A class play was presented annually; in 1969, Emmaus High School produced its first musical, Bye Bye Birdie.

By 1998, the school's population had grown significantly due to an influx of residents predominantly from New Jersey, New York City, and Philadelphia, and Emmaus High School expanded again, taking over the junior high building, adding additional space and using the whole complex to house grades nine through twelve. The Jefferson Building, the first dedicated home of Emmaus High School, was subsequently decommissioned, demolished in 1999, and replaced by Jefferson Elementary School. In 2005, a second major expansion of Emmaus High School was completed.

In October 2015, Emmaus High School was placed on lockdown amid rumors of potential gun violence.

In November 2018, a torrential rainstorm flooded the school, causing administrators to cancel five days of classes. Financial aid and assistance with clean up were provided by East Penn School District. The main office, auxiliary gym, wrestling room, 40 classrooms, and adjacent areas were impacted by stormwater.

On December 17, 2021, Emmaus High School was placed under a cautionary lockdown due to a potential external threat after various threats had been made to schools across the country. Several threats were made by an Emmaus High School freshman student against the school's assistant principals and another student. After almost two hours in cautionary lockdown, students were dismissed in small groups under police supervision. The suspect, a 14-year-old female Emmaus High School student, was arrested the following day, on December 18, and charged with making terrorist threats.

Academics
Emmaus High School ranks in the top academic tier of Pennsylvania public high schools based on state testing results.  In the 2008 Pennsylvania System of State Assessments, Emmaus High School ranked in the to