ME Research Paper

Title: The scope for improving the efficiency and environmental impact of internal combustion engines

Abstract:
Currently 99.8% of global transport is powered by internal combustion engines (ICEs) and 95% of transport energy comes from liquid fuels made from petroleum. Many alternatives including battery electric vehicles (BEVs) and other fuels like biofuels and hydrogen are being considered. However, all these alternatives start from a very low base and face very significant barriers to unlimited expansion so that 85–90% of transport energy is expected to come from conventional liquid fuels powering combustion engines even by 2040. Hence it is imperative that ICEs are improved in order to reduce the local and global environmental impact of transport. This paper considers the scope for such improvement after discussing the basic principles that govern engine efficiency and the technologies to control exhaust pollution. The great scope for such improvement is illustrated by considering various practical approaches already in the market. For instance, the best in class SI engines in the U.S. have 14% lower fuel consumption compared to the average. Engine and conventional powertrain developments alone could reduce the fuel consumption by over 30% for light duty vehicles (LDVs). Implementing other technologies such as hybridisation and light-weighting could reduce fuel consumption by 50% compared to the current average for LDVs. Current after-treatment technology can ensure that the exhaust pollutant levels meet the most stringent current emissions requirements. Indeed, with the most modern diesel vehicles, the exhaust can be cleaner than the intake air in urban centres. The implications for transport policy, particularly where there are plans to ban ICEs, are considered in the final discussion. All available technologies need to be deployed to mitigate the environmental impact of transport and it would be extremely short-sighted to discourage further development of ICEs by limiting their sales.