ME Research Paper

Title: Enhancing CFD Predictions with Explainable Machine Learning for Aerodynamic Characteristics of Idealized Ground Vehicles

Abstract:
Computational fluid dynamic (CFD) models and workflows are often developed in an ad hoc manner, leading to a limited understanding of interaction effects and model behavior under various conditions. Machine learning (ML) and explainability tools can help CFD process development by providing a means to investigate the interactions in CFD models and pipelines. ML tools in CFD can facilitate the efficient development of new processes, the optimization of current models, and enhance the understanding of existing CFD methods. In this study, the turbulent closure coefficient tuning of the SST k−ω Reynolds-averaged Navier–Stokes (RANS) turbulence model was selected as a case study. The objective was to demonstrate the efficacy of ML and explainability tools in enhancing CFD applications, particularly focusing on external aerodynamic workflows. Two variants of the Ahmed body model, with 25-degree and 40-degree slant angles, were chosen due to their availability and relevance as standard geometries for aerodynamic process validation. Shapley values, a concept derived from game theory, were used to elucidate the impact of varying the values of the closure coefficients on CFD predictions, chosen for their robustness in providing clear and interpretable insights into model behavior. Various ML algorithms, along with the SHAP method, were employed to efficiently explain the relationships between the closure coefficients and the flow profiles sampled around the models. The results indicated that model coefficient β* had the greatest overall effect on the lift and drag predictions. The ML explainer model and the generated explanations were used to create optimized closure coefficients, achieving an optimal set that reduced the error in lift and drag predictions to less than 7% and 0.5% for the 25-degree and 40-degree models, respectively.