# Profunctor

In category theory, a branch of mathematics, profunctors are a generalization of relations and also of bimodules.

Definition 

A profunctor (also named distributor by the French school and module by the Sydney school)  from a category  to a category , written

,

is defined to be a functor

where  denotes the opposite category of  and  denotes the category of sets. Given morphisms  respectively in  and an element , we write  to denote the actions.

Using the cartesian closure of , the category of small categories, the profunctor  can be seen as a functor

where  denotes the category  of presheaves over .

A correspondence from  to  is a profunctor .

Profunctors as categories 

An equivalent definition of a profunctor  is a category whose objects are the disjoint union of the objects of  and the objects of , and whose morphisms are the morphisms of  and the morphisms of , plus zero or more additional morphisms from objects of  to objects of . The sets in the formal definition above are the hom-sets between objects of  and objects of . (These are also known as het-sets, since the corresponding morphisms can be called heteromorphisms.) The previous definition can be recovered by the restriction of the hom-functor  to .

This also makes it clear that a profunctor can be thought of as a relation between the objects of  and the objects of , where each member of the relation is associated with a set of morphisms. A functor is a special case of a profunctor in the same way that a function is a special case of a relation.

Composition of profunctors 

The composite  of two profunctors

 and 

is given by

where  is the left Kan extension of the functor  along the Yoneda functor  of  (which to every object  of  associates the functor ).

It can be shown that

where  is the least equivalence relation such that  whenever there exists a morphism  in  such that

  and  .

Equivalently, profunctor composition can be written using a coend

The bicategory of profunctors 

Composition of profunctors is associative only up to isomorphism (because the product is not strictly associative in Set). The best one can hope is therefore to build a bicategory Prof whose
 0-cells are small categories,
 1-cells between two small categories are the profunctors between those categories,
 2-cells between two profunctors are the natural transformations between those profunctors.

Properties

Lifting functors to profunctors 
A functor  can be seen as a profunctor  by postcomposing with the Yoneda functor:

.

It can be shown that such a profunctor  has a right adjoint. Moreover, this is a characterization: a profunctor  has a right adjoint if and only if  factors through the Cauchy completion of , i.e. there exists a functor  such that .

References 

 
 

Functors