# Nottingham City Transport

Nottingham City Transport (NCT) is the major bus operator of the city of Nottingham, England. NCT operates extensively within Nottingham as well beyond the city boundaries into Nottinghamshire county. Publicly-owned, it is today the second largest municipal bus company in the United Kingdom after Lothian Buses in Edinburgh, Scotland.

History 

Horse-drawn buses operated in Nottingham from 1848. The Nottingham and District Tramways Company Limited opened its first routes in 1878 with horse-drawn trams, and experimented with steam traction a few years later. The company was taken over by Nottingham Corporation Tramways in 1898. Electrification followed, with the first electric trams operating in January 1901 and within two years over 100 trams were in service on eight lines. The first motorbuses were introduced in 1906.

The Nottingham trolleybus system was inaugurated in 1927. By 1930 a number of routes had been converted from trams to trolleybuses. A new bus depot was opened on Parliament Street in June 1929 and is still in use today.

By 1935 the trolleybus fleet had reached its peak at 106 vehicles, making it the largest fleet in the country. The last tram ran in September 1936. World War II brought reduced services, economy measures (including diluting diesel with creosote) and blackout screens on vehicles. Before the war some diesel-engined buses were introduced, although large scale deliveries of buses did not take place until after the war. The advent of diesel services enabled the last petrol-engined buses to be withdrawn.

By the end of the 1950s, trolleybuses were in decline, the last new trolleybus joining the fleet in 1952 reaching a maximum fleet of 155 vehicles. The first one-man operated bus appeared in 1951. Trolleybuses were withdrawn between April 1965 and July 1966, and the West Bridgford UDC Transport undertaking came under Nottingham's control in 1968. One-man operation started to come into force in January 1970 and by 1977 nearly all services were one-man operated. In 1974 it was renamed City of Nottingham Transport and by 1976 an all-time peak of 494 operated vehicles was reached.

To comply with the Transport Act 1985, in 1986 the assets were transferred to a new legal entity. However the company effectively remained in public ownership as Nottingham City Council held full equity of the new entity. In 1988 Stevenson's Bus Services, Ilkeston was purchased and formed a subsidiary company. Erewash Valley Services Limited. These services were integrated with the main company in 1990.

In 1991 South Notts Bus Company was purchased for £1, giving NCT a route from Nottingham to Loughborough and a garage at Gotham. In 1997 Pathfinder (Newark) Limited was purchased, giving NCT a presence in the north of the county. Fleet names are retained within the company but both South Notts and Pathfinder liveries are now extinct, although routes into Clifton and into South Nottinghamshire have navy line branding, taken from the navy blue livery of South Notts.

Despite many offers to buy, Nottingham City Council retained 100% ownership in NCT until May 2001, when 5% of the shares were issued to Transdev. This was related to the Nottingham Express Transit operating contract being awarded to Arrow Light Rail, a consortium between Transdev (later Veolia Transdev), Nottingham City Transport, Bombardier, Carillion, Galaxy and Innisfree. The consortium was contracted to build and operate the light rail for 30.5 years since 9 March 2004, but the contract was ripped up in 2011 when Tramlink Nottingham was selected as the preferred bidder for the construction of Phase 2 of the light rail. The last day of operations of Arrow Light Rail was 16 December 2011.

Another change early in the 2000s was the introduction of 'Go2' and 'Network'. This was a concept whereby every bus route was assigned a colour, and all the routes exiting the city via the same route (or went in the same general direction) had the same colour (e.g. every route using Derby Road to leave the city were coloured orange). This led to the coloured lines system which is still in use. Go2 buses had a colour coded front with white rear, and Network buses had a colour coded area round the front windows and a stripe to the back, on a two-tone dark green base. Buses with no colour coding (used when a correctly coloured one is not available) were plain green or white. The livery went through a change about 10 years after the start of the colour system where Go2 had colour coding on both ends of the bus with a silver centre, and Network the same but with a green centre. The Network brand started to fade away in 2015 as these buses also began having silver centres, and the Network name dropped when a bus was repainted.

Ecolink ethanol buses 

In 2007, Nottingham City Transport became the first company in the UK to introduce Ethanol powered "Eco" buses. Named "Ecolink 30", the service used a combination of standard diesel powered Scania OmniCity buses and 3 specially converted ethanol Scania OmniLink buses on its Pink Line 30 route.

The ethanol powered buses were painted in a special "Ecolink" livery which used flowers and leaves along the side of the bus to symbolise the "green-ness" of the buses. They also used the slogan "Go Green", combined with the information that they reduced CO2 emissions by around 30 tonnes.

The ethanol buses were equipped with a colour LED destination display, an LCD screen onboard which allowed advertisements &/or CCTV footage to be played, a Star Trak GPS locating system which allowed for real time ETA's to be displayed at electronic bus stop timetable displays and also allowed for the next stop to be displayed on the buses onboard electronic display (Above the "Bus Stopping" sign). The buses also had a low floor to allow for wheelchair/buggy access and were equipped with an extendable ramp to allow wheelchair users to board the bus when there is a gap between the bus door and the pavement.

The buses were purchased by Nottingham City Council using funding from the East Midlands Development Agency which allowed them to purchase three ethanol powered buses and construct an ethanol fuelling station. The buses are operated and maintained by Nottingham City Transport.

This trial ended in March 2013, when it was no longer viable to source ethanol. The three buses were converted to diesel and were branded for the Pathfinder service to Southwell. They were re-branded again later in a generic silver livery, to be used on any route. 
To replace them, three standard Scania OmniCity vehicles from another route were refurbished, and repainted in to green 'Nottingham Network' livery with pink ends to denote the service being part of the pink line. The said formerly ethanol-powered buses were sold in 2019 following the purchase of new Alexander- Dennis Enviro200 MMCs.

Routes 
Routes operated by NCT as of 9th September 2023:

Note
 Information may become outdated or may be slightly wrong. Check with the NCTX site/app first.

 * will indiacate a service that only operates one way

Main Routes

Navy Line

1 - City to Loughborough/Loughborough Endowed Schools, 1A - City to Clifton (The Dip) (via Todd Close), 1B - City to Clifton (The Dip) (via main 1 route), 1E - City to East Leake Academy,
1 will divert via Ashby Rd and Loughborough Rd through Rempstone, Hoton and Cotes if Stanford On Soar is flooded

3 - City to Clifton (via Industrial Estate and Farnborough School), 3A - City to Clifton (via Silverdale)

4 - Nottingham Trent University Clifton Campus to NTU City Campus (4 and N4 routes only operate during term time)

48 - City to Clifton via Riverside Retail Park, 48X - City to Clifton via Queen's Drive

49/49A - City to Boots Estate/Site via Riverside Retail Park and Queens Drive Park and Ride (49A does not serve Queen's Drive P&R) , 49B City to Queens Drive P&R*, 49X - City to Boots site via Queen's Drive (does not serve Riverside Retail Park or Queen's P&R)

Green Line 

5 - City to Gamston

6 - City to Edwalton

7 - City to Gamston, 7B(only operates as last bus) Gamston to Trent Bridge, Victoria Embankment*

8,8B,9,9B - City to Willford Hill and Compton Acres, (last bus 9B to City terminates at Trent Bridge, Vic Embk

10 - City to Ruddington, 10C - City to Ruddington Country Park via Ruddington, 10X - City to Ruddington Country Park direct

11 - City to Lady Bay, 11A City to Gamston via Lady Bay, 11C City to National Watersports Centre

Brown Line

15 - City to Rise Park via Beckhampton Road

16/16C - City to Rise Park via Hartcroft Road (16C terminates on Brownlow Drive near the Rise Park Terminus, it will stop at the Rise Park terminus on its route to the City)

17 - City to Bulwell via Hucknall Road

Lilac Line

24 - City to Gedling (Holyoake Road) (Only 1 route per day, weekdays only. leaves King Street at 15:37 to Holyoake Rd, leaves Holyoake Rd at 16:19)

25 - City to Arnold via Carlton, 25B - City to Mapperly Shops*

26 - Nottingham - Southwell, 26A