# Sit and Be Fit

Sit and Be Fit is a half-hour television exercise program that airs on KSPS-TV out of Spokane, WA, broadcast throughout the United States to over three-hundred PBS member stations and eighty-six million households. The show focuses on toning and stretching from a seated position, beneficial to individuals who are restricted physically. The show's mission statement is—"Sit and Be Fit is committed to improving the quality of life of older adults and  physically limited individuals through safe, effective exercises that are available through television, videos, personal appearances, classes, seminars, books, and the Internet. The show actively promotes functional fitness, healing, and independence, and is an effective resource for professionals in aging and fitness." Launched in 1987, it is hosted by Mary Ann Wilson.

Background 

The series was created by Mary Ann Wilson, RN, (pictured) who began her career in health as a registered nurse specializing in the field of post-polio rehabilitation and geriatrics. Beginning in 1980 as a high- and low-impact aerobics instructor, she was asked by the  Community Colleges of Spokanes' Institute for Extended Learning (IEL) in 1985 to develop a tone and stretch exercise program for residents at the South Hill Senior Center. Soon after they asked that she teach a class at the Canterbury Court apartments, and it was during these classes that she noticed her students, aged 70 to 95, were having difficulties with balance, coordination and fatigue, and she began to adapt the program by introducing the chair. She recognized that seniors who were moderately active or those managing chronic conditions or needing rehabilitation from strokes, heart attacks or other injuries would tire less and be more encouraged if sitting down, doing the movements slowly and gently. 

Based on the positive response of individuals that took her classes, Wilson embarked on selling the idea for a television program in order to reach a larger audience, and in September 1986 contacted local stations in her area, including Bill Stanley, program director at KSPS, who liked the idea and asked her to keep in touch about it. Through her persistent letter writing and phone calls—“I hounded that poor man for nine months,” Wilson said, Stanley agreed to do the show in May the following year, stating that it would appeal to KSPS' primary viewing audience of fifty and over. Thirty-four stations picked up the show in its first year, which was enough to warrant a second season. Over the years the show's popularity has grown steadily, with 70 stations signing on in 1995, 100 in 1999, 220 in 2014, and 300 in 2017.

Format 

As host of the show, Mary Ann Wilson performs a variety of exercises to musical accompaniment while seated in a chair, although sometimes she performs while standing, using the chair as a prop for support. Simple household items like a small rubber ball or a hand towel, even a bag of lentils for weight resistance, are used occasionally to assist her with particular movements. She focuses on areas of the body like fingers, wrists, elbows, shoulders, neck, hips, knees and ankles to increase flexibility and range of motion while developing tone and strength, what Wilson calls "functional fitness," or fitness for everyday living.

The first years of taping had Wilson joined by two or three guests on the set, exercising along in unison. They ranged in age from kids to seniors, and were always introduced by Wilson at the beginning of the show. The show ran unscripted with cue cards, with cameras cuts between host and guests serving to give the show a down-to-earth feel while at the same time providing editors the ability to seamlessly omit the occasional blooper while taping was underway. The original theme music for the show was composed by Steve Samsel, a Spokane-based musician.

The current format is scripted and choreographed, with Wilson performing the exercises alone while seated. When doing standing exercises she is joined by her daughter, the show's producer/director Gretchen Wilson, who in unison with her mother performs the same movements while remaining seated—this for the benefit of viewers who are unable to stand. The show takes place on a minimally-decorated set with center stage painted decoratively by Gretchen Wilson, who is also a visual artist. Each season she paints a new design on the stage in preparation for taping. Theme music is a newer version of the original, still credited to Steve Samsel, with adaptation by Brad Pearson.

Wilson states that she find ideas for the show from real-life situations, and with the help of her daughter consults with health-care professionals like doctors, physical therapists and specialists in preparation for each show to develop the exercises. Various programs have specific themes like "Neuro Rehab Workout," "COPD Workout," "Prevent DVT Workout," "Brain Fitness Workout" and "Boomer Workout." The "Neuro Rehab Workout" is designed to help people with neurological issues related to conditions such as Parkinson's disease, multiple sclerosis, a stroke or brain injury.

Organization 
Sit and Be Fit was a set up as a non-profit endeavor from the very start, with production costs like designing the set and creating the theme song  absorbed by KSPS. Initial run of the series comprised thirty episodes at 28½ minutes each. As with all PBS productions, costs are supported by fundraising efforts. "This is the perfect vehicle to make contact with older viewers," said program director Sean Herrin in 1995, discussing the benefits of producing a show seen by a large portion of its viewing demographic. "If they join and support KSPS, so much the better." Wilson has on numerous occasions refused to "sell out" because she wants the show to remain accessible, without the need for commercials or product endorsements. In 2000, the corporation filed for a non-profit status, and was granted the right to be a "501(c)(3) charitable organization."

Reception 

With an aging population and the almost universal promotion of staying active at all ages, especially those in retirement, the popularity of the show has grown steadily. Since its creation it continues to receive letters from viewers espousing the positive health benefits they've experienced personally by watching the show and doing the exercises. Wilson makes sure that her staff responds to as many letters as possible, often researching queries she receives concerning exercises about certain conditions.

Accolades

The program and its host, Mary Ann Wilson, have received numerous awards in the fields of health and fitness. In 1997 the show was chosen as Small Business of the Year by the American Society of Aging, while two of its home videos took gold at the National Health Information competition. In 2017 Wilson was inducted into the National Fitness Hall of Fame Museum & Institute and in 2019 was the recipient of President's Council on Sports, Fitness, and Nutrition Community Leadership Award.

Notes, citations and sources
Notes

Citations

Sources

News

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Websites

External links 

Official website

Physical exercise
PBS original programming
Charities based in Washington (state)
1987 American television series debuts
1990s American television series
2000s American television series
2010s American television series
Health charities in the United States
Medical and health organizations based in Washington (state)