# Environmental Protection Act 1990

The Environmental Protection Act 1990 (initialism: EPA) is an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom that  defines, within England and Wales and Scotland, the fundamental structure and authority for waste management and control of emissions into the environment.

Overview 
Part 1: establishes a general regime by which the Secretary of State,  the Secretary of State for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs, can prescribe any process or substance and set limits on it respective of its emissions into the environment. Authorisation and enforcement was originally in the hands of HM Inspectorate of Pollution and local authorities but in 1996 became the responsibility of the Environment Agency (EA) and Scottish Environment Protection Agency (SEPA). Operation of a prescribed process is prohibited without approval and there are criminal sanctions against offenders.

Part 2: sets out a regime for regulation|regulating and licensing the acceptable disposal of controlled waste on land.

Controlled waste is any household, industrial and commercial waste. Unauthorised or harmful depositing, treatment or disposal of controlled waste is prohibited with prohibition enforced by criminal sanctions. Further, there is a broad duty of care on importers, producers, carriers, keepers, treaters or disposers of controlled waste to prevent unauthorised or harmful activities. Breach of the duty of care is a crime.

The Act demands that the Secretary of State creates a National Waste Strategy for England and Wales, and that SEPA creates a strategy for Scotland. Local authorities have duties to collect controlled waste and to undertake recycling.

There are criminal penalties on households and businesses who fail to co-operate with the local authorities' arrangements. Enforcement of these penalties sometimes proves controversial.

Part 2a: was inserted by the Environment Act 1995 and defines a scheme of identification and compulsory remedial action for contaminated land.

Part 3: defines a class of statutory nuisances over which the local authority can demand remedial action supported by criminal penalties.

Part 4: defines a set of criminal offences concerning litter.

Part 5: defines a regime of statutory notification and risk assessment for genetically modified organisms (GMOs). There are duties with respect to the import, acquisition, keeping, release or marketing of GMOs and the Secretary of State has the power to prohibit specific GMOs if there is a danger of environmental damage.

Part 6: of the Act created three new organisations: the Nature Conservancy Council for England, the Nature Conservancy Council for Scotland, and the Countryside Council for Wales. Since 1990, the English and Scottish councils have been the subject of considerable reorganisation and, as of 2008, only the Welsh council is still governed by the Act.

The Act superseded the requirements under section 1(1)(d) of the Health and Safety at Work etc. Act 1974 in respect of controlling noxious emissions.

In the operating year 2005/ 2006, the  brought 880 prosecutions with an average fine of about £1,700, and 736 in 2006/2007 with an average fine of £6,773. There have also been sentences of imprisonment, including two of over sixteen months in 2006/ 2007.

Background
The Act implements the European Union Waste Framework Directive in England and Wales and Scotland.

The Act was intended to strengthen pollution controls and support enforcement with heavier penalties. Before the Act there had been separate environmental regulation of air, water and land pollution and the Act brought in an integrated scheme that would seek the "best practicable environmental option". There was previously no uniform system of licensing or public right of access to information. The split of the Nature Conservancy Council (NCC) into English, Welsh and Scottish bodies was controversial. Purportedly forced on Secretary of State Chris Patten by Secretary of State for Scotland Malcolm Rifkind and forestry minister Lord Sanderson, some saw it as "punishment" for the vigorous opposition the NCC had mounted to afforestation in the Flow Country.

Part I - Prescribed processes and substances
The Secretary of State has the power to prescribe specific processes and substances by statutory instrument. The power was exercised by the Environmental Protection (Prescribed Processes and Substances) Regulations 1991 which have been amended several times. Further, the Secretary of State can make regulations to fix emission standards on prescribed processes and substances.

Once a process is prescribed, it can only be operated on authorisation from the enforcing authority. Applications must be made to the authority and the authority can refuse authorisation or give it subject to conditions. The authorisation is transferable to somebody else who takes over the undertaking provided that the enforcing authority is notified. The enforcing authority can revoke the authorisation or vary its conditions and the operator can apply to have the conditions varied.

The 1991 regulations were revoked for England and Wales by the Environmental Permitting (England and Wales) Regulations 2007. Permitting is now regulated by the Environmental Permitting (England and Wales) Regulations 2010. The 1991 regulations remain in force in Scotland, although they are in practice superseded by the Pollution Prevention and Control (Scotland) Regulations 2000 and 2012 made under the Pollution Prevention and Control Act 1999.

Enforcement
Processes are stipulated as subject to either central control by the  or , or local control by the local authority but only with respects to atmospheric pollution. Such an enforcing authority can issue an enforcement notice or prohibition notice on a noncompliant operator and there are criminal penalties including fines and imprisonment for violations.

An operator may appeal a decision about the issue of authorisation, conditions, enforcement or prohibition to the Secretary of State who may hold a hearing or public inquiry.

Enforcing authorities must provide public information on applications, authorisations and enforcement so long as confidentiality and national security are protected.

Part II - Disposal of controlled waste on land

Controlled waste
Waste is defined as any substance or object within very broad categories set out in Schedule 2B "which the holder discards or intends or is required to discard". Controlled waste is "household, industrial and commercial waste or any such waste". The exact definition covers a very broad range of waste.

The meaning of discard was considered by the European Court of Justice in 2002, where it was held:

Unauthorised or harmful deposit, treatment or disposal of controlled waste
No person may "treat, keep or dispose of controlled waste in a manner likely to cause pollution of the environment or harm to human health".

Except in the case of domestic household waste treated or kept or disposed of on the premises, no person may:
Deposit controlled waste, or knowingly cause or knowingly permit controlled waste to be deposited in or on any land unless a waste management licence authorising the deposit is in force and the deposit is in accordance with the licence; or
Treat, keep or dispose of controlled waste, or knowingly cause or knowingly permit controlled waste to be treated, kept or disposed of:
In or on any land; or
By means of any mobile plant;
— except under and in accordance with a waste management licence.

Duty of care in respect of waste
Section 34(1) imposes a duty on "any person who imports, produces, carries, keeps, treats or disposes of controlled waste or, as a broker, has control of such waste, to take all such measures applicable to him in that capacity as are reasonable in the circumstances":
To prevent any contravention by any other person of section 33;
To prevent any contravention of certain (i.e. specific) provisions of the Pollution Prevention and Control Regulations;
To prevent the escape of the waste from his control or that of any other person; and
On the transfer of the waste, to secure:
That the transfer is only to an authorised person or to a person for authorised transport purposes; and
That there is transferred such a written description of the waste as will enable other persons to avoid a contravention section 33 or the Pollution Prevention and Control Regulations.

Under section 34(2) an occupier of domestic property must, as respects the household waste produced on the property, take reasonable steps to secure that any transfer of waste is only to an authorised person or to a person for authorised transport purposes but has none of the other section 34(1) duties.

Authorised persons include local authorities who have responsibility for waste collection, persons licensed to manage or registered to transport waste or otherwise exempt persons.

Section 34(5) allows the Secretary of State to make regulations as to retention of documents and the Enviro