[A Brief History of Mathematics — Cajori — Gutenberg #9296]

think they are the very words, reflect upon my father?] it is not possible, I must say again, and again, were all men equally indifferent to you, that you should be thus sturdy in your will. I am tired out with your obstinacy--The most unpersuadable girl--You forget, that I must separate myself from you, if you will not comply. You do not remember that you father will take you up, where I leave you. Once more, however, I will put it to you,--Are you determined to brave your father's displeasure?--Are you determined to defy your uncles?--Do you choose to break with us all, rather than encourage Mr. Solmes?--Rather than give me hope? Dreadful alternative--But is not my sincerity, is not the integrity of my heart, concerned in the answer? May not my everlasting happiness be the sacrifice? Will not the least shadow of the hope you just now demanded from me, be driven into absolute and sudden certainty? Is it not sought to ensnare, to entangle me in my own desire of obeying, if I could give answers that might be construed into hope?--Forgive me, Madam: bear with your child's boldness in such a cause as this!--Settlements drawn!--Patterns sent for!--An early day!--Dear, dear Madam, how can I give hope, and not intend to be this man's? Ah, girl, never say your heart is free! You deceive yourself if you think it is. Thus to be driven [and I wrung my hands through impatience] by the instigations of a designing, an ambitious brother, and by a sister, that-- How often, Clary, must I forbid your unsisterly reflections?--Does not your father, do not your uncles, does not every body, patronize Mr. Solmes? And let me tell you, ungrateful girl, and unmovable as ungrateful, let me repeatedly tell you, that it is evident to me, that nothing but a love unworthy of your prudence can make you a creature late so dutiful, now so sturdy. You may guess what your father's first question on his return will be. He must know, that I can do nothing with you. I have done my part. Seek me, if your mind change before he comes back: you have yet a little more time, as he stays supper. I will no more seek you, nor to you.--And away she flung. What could I do but weep? I am extremely affected on my mother's account--more, I must needs say, than on my own. And indeed, all things considered, and especially, that the measure she is engaged in, is (as I dare say it is) against her own judgment, she deserves more compassion than myself.--Excellent woman! What pity, that meekness and condescension should not be attended with the due rewards of those charming graces!--Yet had she not let violent spirits (as I have elsewhere observed with no small regret) find their power over hers, it could not have been thus. But here, run away with my pen, I suffer my mother to be angry with me on her own account. She hinted to me, indeed, that I must seek her, if my mind changed; which is a condition that amounts to a prohibition of attending her: but, as she left me in displeasure, will it not have a very obstinate appearance, and look like a kind of renunciation of her mediation in my favour, if I go not down before my father returns, to supplicate her pity, and her kind report to him? I will attend her. I had rather all the world should be angry with me than my mamma! Mean time, to clear my hands from papers of such a nature, Hannah shall deposit this. If two or three letters reach you together, they will but express from one period to another, the anxieties and difficulties which the mind of your unhappy but ever affectionate friend labours under. CL. H. LETTER XXI MISS CLARISSA HARLOWE, TO MISS HOWE SAT. NIGHT. I have been down. I am to be unlucky in all I do, I think, be my intentions ever so good. I have made matters worse instead of better: as I shall now tell you. I found my mother and sister together in my sister's parlour. My mother, I fear, by the glow of her fine face, (and as the browner, sullener glow in her sister's confirmed,) had been expressing herself with warmth, against her unhappier child: perhaps giving such an account of what had passed, as should clear herself, and convince Bella, and, through her, my brother and uncles, of the sincere pains she had taken with me. I entered like a dejected criminal; and besought the favour of a private audience. My mother's return, both looks and words, gave but too much reason for my above surmise. You have, said she [looking at me with a sternness that never sits well on her sweet features] rather a requesting than a conceding countenance, Clarissa Harlowe: if I am mistaken, tell me so; and I will withdraw with you wherever you will.--Yet whether so, or not, you may say what you have to say before your sister. My mother, I thought, might have withdrawn with me, as she knows that I have not a friend in my sister. I come down, Madam, said I, to beg of you to forgive me for any thing you may have taken amiss in what passed above respecting your honoured self; and that you will be pleased to use your endeavours to soften my papa's displeasure against me, on his return. Such aggravating looks; such lifting up of hands and eyes; such a furrowed forehead, in my sister! My mother was angry enough without all that; and asked me to what purpose I came down, if I were still so intractable. She had hardly spoken the words, when Shorey came in to tell her, that Mr. Solmes was in the hall, and desired admittance. Ugly creature! What, at the close of day, quite dark, brought him hither?--But, on second thoughts, I believe it was contrived, that he should be here at supper, to know the result of the conference between my mother and me, and that my father, on his return, might find us together. I was hurrying away, but my mother commanded me (since I had come down only, as she said, to mock her) not to stir; and at the same time see if I could behave so to Mr. Solmes, as might encourage her to make the favourable report to my father which I had besought her to make. My sister triumphed. I was vexed to be so caught, and to have such an angry and cutting rebuke given me, with an aspect much more like the taunting sister than the indulgent mother, if I may presume to say so: for she herself seemed to enjoy the surprise upon me. The man stalked in. His usual walk is by pauses, as if (from the same vacuity of thought which made Dryden's clown whistle) he was telling his steps: and first paid his clumsy respects to my mother; then to my sister; next to me, as if I was already his wife, and therefore to be last in his notice; and sitting down by me, told us in general what weather it was. Very cold he made it; but I was warm enough. Then addressing himself to me: And how do you find it, Miss? was his question; and would have taken my hand. I withdrew it, I believe with disdain enough. My mother frowned. My sister bit her lip. I could not contain myself: I was never so bold in my life; for I went on with my plea, as if Mr. Solmes had not been there. My mother coloured, and looked at him, at my sister, and at me. My sister's eyes were opener and bigger than ever I saw them before. The man understood me. He hemmed, and removed from one chair to another. I went on, supplicating for my mother's favourable report: Nothing but invincible dislike, said I-- What would the girl be at, interrupted my mother? Why, Clary! Is this a subject!--Is this!--Is this!--Is this a time--And again she looked upon Mr. Solmes. I am sorry, on reflection, that I put my mamma into so much confusion--To be sure it was very saucy in me. I beg pardon, Madam, said I. But my papa will soon return. And since I am not permitted to withdraw, it is not necessary, I humbly presume, that Mr. Solmes's presence should deprive me of this opportunity to implore your favourable report; and at the same time, if he still visit on my account [looking at him] to convince him, that it cannot possibly be to any purpose-- Is the girl mad? said my mother, interrupting me. My sister, with the affectation of a whisper to my mother--This is--This is spite, Madam, [very spitefully she spoke the word,] because you commanded her to stay. I only looked at her, and turning to my mother, Permit me, Madam, said I, to repeat my request. I have no brother, no sister!--If I ever lose my mamma's favour, I am lost for ever! Mr. Solmes removed to his first seat, and fell to gnawing the head of his hazel; a carved head, almost as ugly as his own--I did not think the man was so sensible. My sister rose, with a face all over scarlet; and stepping to the table, where lay a fan, she took it up, and, although Mr. Solmes had observed that the weather was cold, fanned herself very violently. My mother came to me, and angrily taking my hand, led me out of that parlour into my own; which, you know, is next to it--Is not this behaviour very bold, very provoking, think you, Clary? I beg your pardon, Madam, if it has that appearance to you. But indeed, my dear Mamma, there seem to be snares laying in wait for me. Too well I know my brother's drift. With a good word he shall have my consent for all he wishes to worm me out of--neither he, nor my sister, shall need to take half this pains-- My mother was about to leave me in high displeasure. I besought her to stay: One favour, but one favour, dearest Madam, said I, give me leave to beg of you-- What would the girl? I see how every thing is working about.--I never, never can think of Mr. Solmes. My papa will be in tumults when he is told that I cannot. They will judge of the tenderness of your heart to a poor child who seems devoted by every one else, from the willingness you have already shewn to hearken to my prayers. There will be endeavours used