# Baltimore Pike

The Baltimore Pike was an auto trail connecting Baltimore, Maryland, with Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.

Today, parts of the road are signed as U.S. Route 1 (US 1), US 13, and a small portion of Pennsylvania Route 41 (PA 41). A section of the road within the city limits of Philadelphia and surrounding boroughs is known as Baltimore Avenue, although locals are known to call the Delaware County portion "Baltimore Pike". In suburbs farther west, some sections retain the formal name "Baltimore Pike." Today, Baltimore Avenue's eastern terminus is at 38th Street in Philadelphia, where it intersects with Woodland Avenue (from Southwest Philadelphia and the borough of Darby) and funnels into University Avenue. The road used to continue to Market Street until the University City area was redeveloped.

Route description

Maryland

The routing of the Baltimore Pike in Maryland follows US 1 from Baltimore northeast to the Pennsylvania border near Rising Sun in Cecil County. The road passes through Bel Air and crosses the Susquehanna River on the Conowingo Dam.

The name Baltimore Pike is given to a section of US 1 Bus. in Harford County between Benson and Main Street in Bel Air. South of Benson, US 1 is named Belair Road. From Main Street, US 1 Bus. follows several streets of various other names before joining with US 1 as Conowingo Road.

Pennsylvania

Chester County
The Baltimore Pike enters Pennsylvania from Maryland in West Nottingham Township, Chester County, with the southernmost part of the road in the state a part of US 1, which is a four-lane divided highway at this point. North of the Ridge Road intersection, US 1 becomes a freeway called the Kennett Oxford Bypass and Baltimore Pike continues northeast as a two-lane undivided road that dead ends near the US 1 freeway. The road heads through wooded areas with some homes, with an older alignment of the road known as Old Baltimore Pike looping to the west of the road. Baltimore Pike comes to the Herr's Snacks plant in the community of Nottingham, at which point the alignments of both Baltimore Pike and Old Baltimore Pike are severed, with traffic having to head west and north along Herr Drive to access PA 272. A short distance to the east along PA 272, the alignment of Baltimore Pike resumes as State Route 3026 (SR 3026), an unsigned quadrant route. The Baltimore Pike is a two-lane undivided road and runs north-northeast past a few businesses, crossing into East Nottingham Township. The road curves northeast and passes through a mix of farmland and woodland with some residential and commercial development, running a short distance to the northwest of an East Penn Railroad line.

Baltimore Pike turns to the north-northeast at the Barnsley Road intersection and passes through commercial areas with some residences before crossing into the borough of Oxford. At this point, the road becomes South 3rd Street and heads north past more homes and businesses. In the commercial center of Oxford, the road comes to an intersection with PA 472 and the southern terminus of PA 10, where Baltimore Pike turns east to briefly follow PA 472 on Market Street before heading northeast on Lincoln Street. The road heads through more residential and commercial areas, crossing an East Penn Railroad spur to a plant at-grade before becoming the border between Lower Oxford Township to the northwest and Oxford to the southeast. The roadway fully enters Lower Oxford Township and the name returns to Baltimore Pike.

Baltimore Pike continues through a mix of farmland and woodland with some homes and businesses, crossing the West Branch Big Elk Creek and passing to the north of the Lincoln University campus. The road continues into Upper Oxford Township and runs through more agricultural areas with some housing developments, coming to an intersection with PA 896. Baltimore Pike heads through more rural areas of with some residential development and curves to the east, crossing the East Branch Big Elk Creek into Penn Township. At this point, the road name becomes West Baltimore Pike and it passes between residential development to the north and farmland to the south before passing north of the former Jennersville Hospital. The road heads past a few commercial establishments, reaching an intersection with PA 796 in the community of Jennersville. Following this intersection, West Baltimore Pike heads through farmland before heading into wooded areas with residential developments and crossing into London Grove Township. The road heads near more residences, crossing the Middle Branch White Clay Creek, and enters the borough of West Grove, becoming West Evergreen Street. Here, the road is lined with more homes and comes to an intersection with PA 841, at which point that route joins the road with the name changing to East Evergreen Street. This road curves to the northeast and PA 841 splits north onto Chatham Road. The road heads back into London Grove Township and becomes East Baltimore Pike, continuing through a mix of farms, woods, and development. East Baltimore Pike heads to the east and comes to an intersection with PA 41, at which point SR 3026 ends and Baltimore Pike merges onto PA 41, heading southeast as Gap Newport Pike.

The road runs through areas of residential and commercial development before crossing into the borough of Avondale, where the name changes to Pennsylvania Avenue. Through this area, the road passes several homes and crosses the East Branch White Clay Creek. Baltimore Pike splits east from PA 41 as SR 3046, heading northeast into industrial areas to the south of a quarry as a three-lane road with two eastbound lanes and one westbound lane. The road heads into New Garden Township and narrows to two lanes, passing through commercial areas to the south of New Garden Airport. Baltimore Pike continues past more homes and businesses in the community of Toughkenamon. The road heads through more rural areas with some residential and commercial development before splitting into a one-way pair that carries two-lane West Cypress Street eastbound and two-lane West Baltimore Pike westbound. The one-way pair continues through business areas with some farm fields and residential developments, crossing the West Branch Red Clay Creek and entering Kennett Township. Upon crossing into the borough of Kennett Square, the one-way pair becomes borough-maintained and the name of the westbound direction becomes West State Street. The roads continue through residential areas before heading into the commercial downtown. Here, Baltimore Pike intersects PA 82 and the name of the one-way pair becomes East Cypress Street eastbound and East State Street westbound, leaving the downtown area and heading into wooded residential areas with some businesses. The one-way pair becomes SR 3046 at the bridges across the East Branch Red Clay Creek, becoming borough-maintained again after crossing the creek. The roads curve to the northeast and cross back into Kennett Township, becoming SR 3046 again, with the westbound direction becoming Millers Hill. The two one-way roads join again and become four-lane divided East Baltimore Pike, heading into commercial areas and merging into the northbound direction of US 1 at the end of the Kennett Oxford Bypass, where SR 3046 ends.

At this point, US 1 continues northeast along East Baltimore Pike into East Marlborough Township and passes more businesses, widening to six lanes. Along this divided highway stretch of Baltimore Pike, a few intersections are controlled by jughandles. The road narrows to four lanes and passes near homes and businesses before coming to an interchange that provides access to Longwood Gardens and the Brandywine Valley Tourism Information visitor center to the north of the road, at which point it crosses back into Kennett Township. A short distance later, US 1 comes to an intersection with PA 52, at which point that route heads onto East Baltimore Pike along with US 1. The road heads into wooded areas with some homes and businesses, at which point PA 52 splits in the community of Hamorton to continue southeast toward the city of Wilmington, Delaware. East Baltimore Pike turns to the northeast and crosses into Pennsbury Township, where the official name becomes Baltimore Pike. The road curves to the east again and passes through more woodland with some residential and commercial development, crossing an East Penn Railroad line at-grade before heading across the Brandywine Creek.

Delaware County

Upon crossing the Brandywine Creek, the Baltimore Pike continues into Chadds Ford Township in Delaware County and passes to the north of the Brandywine Museum of Art. US 1 heads into the community of Chadds Ford and intersects Creek Road in a commercial area. The road continues through wooded areas with some development, passing to the south of the Brandywine Battlefield. Baltimore Pike curves northeast and heads into areas of businesses, intersecting US 202/US 322 in Painters Crossroa