ME Research Paper

Title: Effects of hydrogen mixture ratio and scavenging air temperature on combustion and emission characteristics of a 2-stroke marine engine

Abstract:
A numerical study was conducted to investigate the effects of hydrogen and scavenging air temperature (SAT) on the combustion and emission characteristics of a 2-stroke heavy-duty dual-fuel (DF) marine engine at full load. The engine had a 700 mm bore fuelled with hydrogen–methane (H2-CH4) mixtures. Three-dimensional simulations of the combustion and emission formation inside the engine cylinder with various H2 contents in the H2-CH4 mixture were performed. ANSYS FLUENT simulation software was used to analyse the engine performance, in-cylinder pressure, temperature, and emission characteristics. The CFD models were validated against the measured data recorded from the engine experiments. The results showed that an increase in the in-cylinder peak pressure increased the engine power when the H2 content in the H2-CH4 mixture increased. Notably, CO2 and soot emissions decreased (up to more than 65%) when the H2 content in the gaseous mixture increased to 50%. Specific NO emissions in the DF modes were lower than that of the diesel mode, when the H2 content in the gaseous mixture was lower than 40%. However, they increased compared to the diesel mode when the H2 content continued to increase. This limits the H2 amount that should be used in a gaseous mixture creating NO emissions. The results also showed that the SAT cooling method can further reduce emission problems while enhancing engine power. In particular, reducing the SAT to 28 °C in the gaseous mixture with 10% H2 ensured that the DF mode emitted the lowest NO emissions compared to the diesel mode. This reduced NO emissions by 37.92% compared to the measured NO emissions of the research engine (a Tier II marine engine). This study successfully analysed the benefits of using an H2-CH4 mixture as the primary fuel and the SAT cooling method in a 2-stroke ME-GI heavy-duty marine engine.