# Ergodicity

In mathematics, ergodicity expresses the idea that a point of a moving system, either a dynamical system or a stochastic process, will eventually visit all parts of the space that the system moves in, in a uniform and random sense. This implies that the average behavior of the system can be deduced from the trajectory of a "typical" point. Equivalently, a sufficiently large collection of random samples from a process can represent the average statistical properties of the entire process. Ergodicity is a property of the system; it is a statement that the system cannot be reduced or factored into smaller components. Ergodic theory is the study of systems possessing ergodicity.

Ergodic systems occur in a broad range of systems in physics and in geometry. This can be roughly understood to be due to a common phenomenon: the motion of particles, that is, geodesics on a hyperbolic manifold are divergent; when that manifold is compact, that is, of finite size, those orbits return to the same general area, eventually filling the entire space.

Ergodic systems capture the common-sense, every-day notions of randomness, such that smoke might come to fill all of a smoke-filled room, or that a block of metal might eventually come to have the same temperature throughout, or that flips of a fair coin may come up heads and tails half the time. A stronger concept than ergodicity is that of mixing, which aims to mathematically describe the common-sense notions of mixing, such as mixing drinks or mixing cooking ingredients.

The proper mathematical formulation of ergodicity is founded on the formal definitions of measure theory and dynamical systems, and rather specifically on the notion of a measure-preserving dynamical system. The origins of ergodicity lie in statistical physics, where Ludwig Boltzmann formulated the ergodic hypothesis.

Informal explanation

Ergodicity occurs in broad settings in physics and mathematics. All of these settings are unified by a common mathematical description, that of the measure-preserving dynamical system. Equivalently, ergodicity can be understood in terms of stochastic processes. They are one and the same, despite using dramatically different notation and language.

Measure-preserving dynamical systems
The mathematical definition of ergodicity aims to capture ordinary every-day ideas about randomness. This includes ideas about systems that move in such a way as to (eventually) fill up all of space, such as diffusion and Brownian motion, as well as common-sense notions of mixing, such as mixing paints, drinks, cooking ingredients, industrial process mixing, smoke in a smoke-filled room, the dust in Saturn's rings and so on.  To provide a solid mathematical footing, descriptions of ergodic systems begin with the definition of a measure-preserving dynamical system. This is written as 

The set  is understood to be the total space to be filled: the mixing bowl, the smoke-filled room, etc. The measure  is understood to define the natural volume of the space  and of its subspaces.  The collection of subspaces is denoted by , and the size of any given subset  is ; the size is its volume.  Naively, one could imagine  to be the power set of ; this doesn't quite work, as not all subsets of a space have a volume (famously, the Banach-Tarski paradox). Thus, conventionally,  consists of the measurable subsets—the subsets that do have a volume. It is always taken to be a Borel set—the collection of subsets that can be constructed by taking intersections, unions and set complements of open sets; these can always be taken to be measurable.

The time evolution of the system is described by a map . Given some subset , its map  will in general be a deformed version of  – it is squashed or stretched, folded or cut into pieces. Mathematical examples include the baker's map and the horseshoe map, both inspired by bread-making. The set  must have the same volume as ; the squashing/stretching does not alter the volume of the space, only its distribution. Such a system is "measure-preserving" (area-preserving, volume-preserving).

A formal difficulty arises when one tries to reconcile the volume of sets with the need to preserve their size under a map. The problem arises because, in general, several different points in the domain of a function can map to the same point in its range; that is, there may be  with . Worse, a single point  has no size. These difficulties can be avoided by working with the inverse map ; it will map any given subset  to the parts that were assembled to make it: these parts are . It has the important property of not losing track of where things came from.  More strongly, it has the important property that any (measure-preserving) map  is the inverse of some map . The proper definition of a volume-preserving map is one for which  because  describes all the pieces-parts that  came from.

One is now interested in studying the time evolution of the system. If a set  eventually comes to fill all of  over a long period of time (that is, if  approaches all of  for large ), the system is said to be ergodic. If every set  behaves in this way, the system is a conservative system, placed in contrast to a dissipative system, where some subsets  wander away, never to be returned to. An example would be water running downhill: once it's run down, it will never come back up again. The lake that forms at the bottom of this river can, however, become well-mixed. The ergodic decomposition theorem states that every ergodic system can be split into two parts: the conservative part, and the dissipative part.

Mixing is a stronger statement than ergodicity. Mixing asks for this ergodic property to hold between any two sets , and not just between some set  and . That is, given any two sets , a system is said to be (topologically) mixing if there is an integer  such that, for all  and , one has that .  Here,  denotes set intersection and  is the empty set.  Other notions of mixing include strong and weak mixing, which describe the notion that the mixed substances intermingle everywhere, in equal proportion. This can be non-trivial, as practical experience of trying to mix sticky, gooey substances shows.

Ergodic Processes

The above discussion appeals to a physical sense of a volume. The volume does not have to literally be some portion of 3D space; it can be some abstract volume. This is generally the case in statistical systems, where the volume (the measure) is given by the probability. The total volume corresponds to probability one. This correspondence works because the axioms of probability theory are identical to those of measure theory; these are the Kolmogorov axioms.

The idea of a volume can be very abstract. Consider, for example, the set of all possible coin-flips: the set of infinite sequences of heads and tails. Assigning the volume of 1 to this space, it is clear that half of all such sequences start with heads, and half start with tails. One can slice up this volume in other ways: one can say "I don't care about the first  coin-flips; but I want the 'th of them to be heads, and then I don't care about what comes after that". This can be written as the set  where  is "don't care" and  is "heads". The volume of this space is again one-half.

The above is enough to build up a measure-preserving dynamical system, in its entirety. The sets of  or  occurring in the  'th place are called cylinder sets. The set of all possible intersections, unions and complements of the cylinder sets then form the Borel set  defined above. In formal terms, the cylinder sets form the base for a topology on the space  of all possible infinite-length coin-flips. The measure  has all of the common-sense properties one might hope for: the measure of a cylinder set with  in the 'th position, and  in the 'th position is obviously 1/4, and so on. These common-sense properties persist for set-complement and set-union: everything except for  and  in locations  and  obviously has the volume of 3/4. All together, these form the axioms of a sigma-additive measure; measure-preserving dynamical systems always use sigma-additive measures. For coin flips, this measure is called the Bernoulli measure.

For the coin-flip process, the time-evolution operator  is the shift operator that says "throw away the first coin-flip, and keep the rest". Formally, if  is a sequence of coin-flips, then . The measure is obviously shift-invariant: as long as we are talking about some set  where the first coin-flip  is the "don't care" value, then the volume  does not change: . In order to avoid talking about the first coin-flip, it is easier to define  as inserting a "don't care" value into the first position: .  With this definition, one obviously has that  with no constraints on . This is again an example of why  is used in the formal definitions.

The above development takes a random process, the Bernoulli process, and converts it to a measure-preserving dynamical syste