# Batman Black and White

Batman Black and White refers to the comic book limited series published by DC Comics featuring 8-page black and white Batman stories. Volumes 1, 4 and 5 of the series feature all-new stories (published in 1996, 2013–14, and 2020–21, respectively), while Vol. 2 and 3 contain stories from the back-up feature of the Batman: Gotham Knights comic book.

The series represents the first DC Comics work for future co-publisher Jim Lee, who drew the debut issue's cover, and the final DC work for Alex Toth, who drew the fourth issue's cover.

Publication history
The origin of the series is told by editor Mark Chiarello in his introduction to the first collection, in which he writes about a dinner table-discussion with "a few famous comic-book artists", at which they pondered the "desert island" question in terms of a single complete run of comics one would be happy to be stranded with. Ultimately, with "half a minute"'s thought, they "amazingly... all agreed, pound for pound, page for page" that the unequivocal choice was Warren Publishing's Creepy, a high point unmatched since "there has never been such a collection of stellar artists assembled under one banner publication" as in Creepy, whose pages were host to (among others) "Toth, Frazetta, Williamson, Torres, Colan, Ditko, Wrightson, Corben etc." Chiarello notes that "most of those stories" were written by one man: Archie Goodwin, described as "probably the very best editor ever to work in comics, probably the very best writer ever to work in comics" (and early mentor to Chiarello when the two worked at Marvel), whose Warren work was itself an "homage to the favorite comics of his youth, the E.C. line".

When Chiarello became a Batman editor "a whole bunch of years" later, he naturally "pitch[ed] the idea of a black and white anthology". Told by many colleagues that it would not sell - both because it was an anthology and because it was a black-and-white title, neither of which were purportedly widely liked by comics readers - the idea was green-lit, and Mike Carlin and Scott Peterson joined Chiarello to "make sure [he] didn't destroy the integrity of [Batman]".

Chiarello's initial thought, which was "to hire the very best artists in the business" led him and Peterson to assemble a wish list of creators to contact. The series ultimately became "a creative and financial success" when the first four-issue volume was published between June and September 1996. There was also a free preview issued in 1996. Each of the four issues featured several self-contained short-stories, all written and drawn by a diverse group of comic artists and writers, most of whom had previously worked on Batman comics. Each story varied in theme, setting, and tone (depending on the creative team involved), offering multiple interpretations of Batman - and, in some cases, his supporting characters - usually by exploring their inner pathos and relationships. The series was the first DC Comics work for future Co-Publisher Jim Lee, who drew the debut issue's cover, and the final DC work for Alex Toth, who drew the fourth issue's cover.

Contents and synopses

Volume 1 
This contains all-new material.

Issue #1 - June 1996
 "Perpetual Mourning" - by Ted McKeever (this story was nominated for an Eisner Award)
 Batman conducts an autopsy on a murder victim to help find her killer.
 "Two of a Kind" - by Bruce Timm
 A Gotham news anchor comments on the biggest story of the year: a brilliant reconstructive surgeon, Marilyn Crane, has been able to repair the damage done to Two-Face, which cures him of his insanity and restores his Harvey Dent identity. Dent plans to marry Marilyn, but becomes nervous when he discovers that she has a twin sister named Madeline who is mentally unbalanced herself (Marilyn explains that she kept the information from him to prevent Two-Face's obsession with duality from resurfacing). Madeline and Harvey begin an affair, but when Dent decides to end the relationship and return to his wife-to-be, she is driven insane with rage and murders Marilyn. Harvey's therapy and surgery prevent him from tapping into his darker side, so he deliberately scars his face with hot coals, travels to Gotham's docks, and kills Madeline. He then waits for Batman to come and take him back to Arkham "with the rest of the crazy people", bitterly resigning himself to a life of madness as Two-Face.
 "The Hunt" - by Joe Kubert
 A surreal take on Batman.
 "Petty Crimes" - by Howard Chaykin
 Batman investigates a series of murders that are apparently motivated by rudeness and lack of respect for rules; among the victims are a supermarket cashier who let someone with more than ten items into the express lane and a security guard who locked a bank door at 2:57 as opposed to 3:00 PM. The Caped Crusader eventually tracks down the culprit—a nondescript Gothamite who believes that he is doing the world a service by forcing people to pay closer attention to their behavior. After Batman apprehends the criminal, he assures the Dark Knight that the two of them are actually performing the same work to save the city, and even offers to be a "sidekick" to the hero when he gets out of jail. 
 "The Devil's Trumpet" - written by Archie Goodwin, art by José Antonio Muñoz
 A jazz musician's search for a legendary trumpet leads him into the path of Batman.

Issue #2 - July 1996
 "Legend" - by Walter Simonson
 A mother tucking her son into bed tells the child an exciting story about a time long ago, when a masked man dressed as a bat fought criminals, villains, and all forms of evil to defend Gotham City. As her boy drifts off to sleep, the woman murmurs that the mysterious Batman swore to always be Gotham's protector, and hopes that he might resurface soon. It is then revealed that the story takes place in an Orwellian dystopia, with Gotham transformed into a police state—but the final panel depicts a familiar, bat-shaped shadow descending on an officer, suggesting that Batman has not abandoned his quest to save Gotham.
 "Monster Maker" - written by Jan Strnad, art by Richard Corben
 Batman has a violent run-in with several 11-year-old black children, who he deems "monsters", before launching into an extended criticism of urban society.
 "Dead Boys Eyes" - by Kent Williams
 Batman reaches out to the soul of Gotham during a near-death experience.
 "The Devil's Children" - written by Chuck Dixon, art by Jorge Zaffino
 Batman investigates a series of mysterious gangland murders.
 "A Black & White World" - written by Neil Gaiman, art by Simon Bisley
 Batman arrives at a strange office building, where a secretary tells him that they are "running behind" on scenes. It is revealed that all of Batman's comic book adventures are a staged affair much like a film, and that the characters are simply actors. The Caped Crusader enters the green room to prepare for his own work that day, where he chats with the Joker about the low quality of the writing. After finishing shooting for the day, Batman and the Joker head off to get lunch together, proving that their endless rivalry is simply an act for the audience.

Issue #3 - August 1996
 "Good Evening, Midnight" - by Klaus Janson
 Alfred reads a note Thomas Wayne had written long ago for his son.
 "In Dreams" - written by Andrew Helfer, art by Tanino Liberatore
 A woman seeks help for her recurring nightmares involving Batman.
 "Heist" - by Matt Wagner
 A gang of thieves are hunted by Batman during a botched home robbery.
 "Bent Twigs" - by Bill Sienkiewicz
 Batman tries to mend the relationship between a single dad and his son.
 "A Slaying Song Tonight" - written by Dennis O'Neil, art by Teddy Kristiansen
 Batman must protect a family from an unknown assassin during the holidays.

Issue #4 - September 1996
 "An Innocent Guy" - by Brian Bolland
 A young man in Gotham records a video describing his seemingly mundane life. However, he explains that in order to know he is truly a good person, he needs to perform a single horrific act and thus prove that he does not want to pursue a life of evil. The young man has decided that the only appropriate crime is murdering Batman, and outlines his plot to do so, explaining that, rather than Batman's many themed villains and rogues, he will simply shoot Batman in the head and vanish. After asserting his status as an "innocent guy", the young man swears that the Caped Crusader's murder will be his only villainous deed, and imagines his life going to back to its regular banality (this story would later be packaged with the 2008 re-release of Batman: The Killing Joke, with full coloring).
 "Monsters in the Closet" - written by Jan Strnad, art by Kevin Nowlan
 Batman uncovers a mad scientist in Gotham and his abominable creations.
 "Heroes" - written by Archie Goodwin, art by Gary Gianni (this story won an Eisner Award)
 A boy in World War II-era Gotham has a run-in with Batman and learns something about his own father in the process.
 "Leavetaking" - written by Dennis O'