# Pontificia Universidad Católica Madre y Maestra

Pontificia Universidad Católica Madre y Maestra (Mother and Teacher Pontifical Catholic University), is a private, Roman Catholic, and coeducational university in the Dominican Republic.  The university grants undergraduate, graduate, doctoral, and professional degrees. It has three campuses, the main one is in Santiago de los Caballeros, another is in Santo Domingo and its extension is in Puerto Plata.

History

The Pontifical Catholic University Mother and Teacher (PUCMM for its Spanish acronym) was established on September 9, 1962. PUCMM was founded by the Dominican Episcopate under the leadership of Monsignor Octavio Antonio Beras Rojas, who served as the Archbishop of Santo Domingo.

The university is named after Pope John XXIII's encyclical Mater et magistra, meaning Mother and Teacher. At first, PUCMM offered faculties in Law, Education, and Philosophy. Its recognition by the Dominican government came through law 6150 on December 31, 1962.     In 1991, the institution was delegated as the responsibility for country domain registration.

Rankings
PUCMM has been consistently listed as the second-best university in the Dominican Republic, after UNIBE, by QS Latin America University Rankings, while the Webometrics Ranking of World Universities ranks it number one in the Dominican Republic. Recently making the list of Quacquarelli Symonds top Latin American universities in 2012, PUCMM was ranked #1201-1400 globally in QS World University Rankings 2024 and #181-190 out of the top 250 universities in the region. Eduniversal Rankings stated that The PUCMM School of Business is the highest-ranking school of business in the Dominican Republic, followed by the School of Business of the UASD. This ranking was done by Eduniversal Rankings's Palmes business school ranking system. The PUCMM received a ranking of 2 Palmes, representing a good business school with a regional influence.

Divisions
 School of Social and Administrative Sciences: Business Administration, Hotel Management, Financial Management and Auditing, Marketing, Psychology, Economics, Ecology and Environmental Management.
 School of Engineering: Industrial Engineering, Systems and Computer Engineering, Telematics Engineering, Civil Engineering, Electromechanical Engineering, Electronic Engineering.
 School of Sciences and Humanities: Architecture, Interior Design, Law, Social Communication,  Basic Education, Secondary Education, Psychology, Philosophy.
 School of Health Sciences: Physical Therapy, Medicine, Stomatology, Nursing.

See also
 Mater et magistra

References

External links
Official website

Pontificia Universidad Católica Madre y Maestra
Roman Catholic universities and colleges in the Caribbean
Pontifical universities
Santiago de los Caballeros
Universities and colleges established in 1962
Education in Santo Domingo
1962 establishments in North America