# Alternant matrix

In linear algebra, an alternant matrix is a matrix formed by applying a finite list of functions pointwise to a fixed column of inputs.  An alternant determinant is the determinant of a square alternant matrix. 

Generally, if  are functions from a set  to a field , and , then the alternant matrix has size  and is defined by

or, more compactly, . (Some authors use the transpose of the above matrix.) Examples of alternant matrices include Vandermonde matrices, for which , and Moore matrices, for which .

Properties
 The alternant can be used to check the linear independence of the functions  in function space. For example, let   and choose . Then the alternant is the matrix  and the alternant determinant is  Therefore M is invertible and the vectors  form a basis for their spanning set: in particular,  and  are linearly independent.

 Linear dependence of the columns of an alternant does not imply that the functions are linearly dependent in function space. For example, let   and choose . Then the alternant is  and the alternant determinant is 0, but we have already seen that  and  are linearly independent. 

 Despite this, the alternant can be used to find a linear dependence if it is already known that one exists. For example, we know from the theory of partial fractions that there are real numbers A and B for which  Choosing    and  we obtain the alternant . Therefore,  is in the nullspace of the matrix: that is, . Moving  to the other side of the equation gives the partial fraction decomposition 

 If  and  for any  then the alternant determinant is zero (as a row is repeated).

 If  and the functions  are all polynomials, then  divides the alternant determinant for all  In particular, if V is a Vandermonde matrix, then  divides such polynomial alternant determinants. The ratio  is therefore a polynomial in  called the bialternant. The Schur polynomial  is classically defined as the bialternant of the polynomials .

Applications
 Alternant matrices are used in coding theory in the construction of alternant codes.

See also
 List of matrices
 Wronskian

References
 
 
 

Matrices
Determinants