# Preconditioner

In mathematics, preconditioning is the application of a transformation, called the preconditioner,  that conditions a given problem into a form that is more suitable for numerical solving methods. Preconditioning is typically related to reducing a condition number of the problem. The preconditioned problem is then usually solved by an iterative method.

Preconditioning for linear systems 

In linear algebra and numerical analysis, a preconditioner  of a matrix  is a matrix such that  has a smaller condition number than . It is also common to call  the preconditioner, rather than , since  itself is rarely explicitly available. In modern preconditioning, the application of  , i.e., multiplication of a column vector, or a block of column vectors, by , is commonly performed in a matrix-free fashion, i.e., where neither , nor   (and often not even ) are explicitly available in a matrix form.

Preconditioners are useful in iterative methods to solve a linear system   for  since the rate of convergence for most iterative linear solvers increases because the condition number of a matrix decreases as a result of preconditioning. Preconditioned iterative solvers typically outperform direct solvers, e.g., Gaussian elimination, for large, especially for sparse, matrices. Iterative solvers can be used as matrix-free methods, i.e. become the only choice if the coefficient matrix  is not stored explicitly, but is accessed by evaluating matrix-vector products.

Description 

Instead of solving the original linear system  for , one may consider the right preconditioned system

and solve

for  and

for .

Alternatively, one may solve the left preconditioned system

Both systems give the same solution as the original system as long as the preconditioner matrix  is nonsingular. The left preconditioning is more traditional.

The two-sided preconditioned system

may be beneficial, e.g., to preserve the matrix symmetry: if the original matrix  is real symmetric and real preconditioners  and  satisfy   then the preconditioned matrix  is also symmetric. The two-sided preconditioning is common for diagonal scaling where the preconditioners  and  are diagonal and scaling is applied both to columns and rows of the original matrix , e.g., in order to decrease the dynamic range of entries of the matrix.

The goal of preconditioning is reducing the condition number, e.g., of the left or right preconditioned system matrix  or . Small condition numbers benefit fast convergence of iterative solvers and improve stability of the solution with respect to perturbations in the system matrix and the right-hand side, e.g., allowing for more aggressive quantization of the matrix entries using lower computer precision.

The preconditioned matrix  or  is rarely explicitly formed. Only the action of applying the preconditioner solve operation   to a given vector may need to be computed.

Typically there is a trade-off in the choice of .  Since the operator  must be applied at each step of the iterative linear solver, it should have a small cost (computing time) of applying the   operation.  The cheapest preconditioner would therefore be  since then  Clearly, this results in the original linear system and the preconditioner does nothing.  At the other extreme, the choice   gives  which has optimal condition number of 1, requiring a single iteration for convergence; however in this case  and applying the preconditioner is as difficult as solving the original system.  One therefore chooses    as somewhere between these two extremes, in an attempt to achieve a minimal number of linear iterations while keeping the operator    as simple as possible.  Some examples of typical preconditioning approaches are detailed below.

Preconditioned iterative methods
Preconditioned iterative methods for  are, in most cases, mathematically equivalent to standard iterative methods applied to the preconditioned system  For example, the standard Richardson iteration for solving  is

Applied to the preconditioned system  it turns into a preconditioned method

Examples of popular preconditioned iterative methods for linear systems include the preconditioned conjugate gradient method, the biconjugate gradient method, and generalized minimal residual method. Iterative methods, which use scalar products to compute the iterative parameters, require corresponding changes in the scalar product together with substituting  for

Matrix splitting 
A stationary iterative method is determined by the matrix splitting  and the iteration matrix . Assuming that
 the system matrix  is symmetric positive-definite,
 the splitting matrix  is symmetric positive-definite,
 the stationary iterative method is convergent, as determined by ,
the condition number  is bounded above by

Geometric interpretation
For a symmetric positive definite matrix  the preconditioner  is typically chosen to be symmetric positive definite as well. The preconditioned operator  is then also symmetric positive definite, but with respect to the -based scalar product. In this case, the desired effect in applying a preconditioner is to make the quadratic form of the preconditioned operator  with respect to the -based scalar product to be nearly spherical.

Variable and non-linear preconditioning 
Denoting , we highlight that preconditioning is practically implemented as multiplying some vector  by , i.e., computing the product  In many applications,  is not given as a matrix, but rather as an operator  acting on the vector . Some popular preconditioners, however, change with  and the dependence on  may not be linear. Typical examples involve using non-linear iterative methods, e.g., the conjugate gradient method, as a part of the preconditioner construction. Such preconditioners may be practically very efficient, however, their behavior is hard to predict theoretically.

Random preconditioning 
One interesting particular case of variable preconditioning is random preconditioning, e.g., multigrid preconditioning on random course grids. If used in gradient descent methods, random preconditioning can be viewed as an implementation of stochastic gradient descent and can lead to faster convergence, compared to fixed preconditioning, since it breaks the asymptotic "zig-zag" pattern of the gradient descent.

Spectrally equivalent preconditioning
The most common use of preconditioning is for iterative solution of linear systems resulting from approximations of partial differential equations. The better the approximation quality, the larger the matrix size is. In such a case, the goal of optimal preconditioning is, on the one side, to make the spectral condition number of  to be bounded from above by a constant independent of the matrix size, which is called spectrally equivalent preconditioning by D'yakonov. On the other hand, the cost of application of the   should ideally be proportional (also independent of the matrix size) to the cost of multiplication of  by a vector.

Examples

Jacobi (or diagonal) preconditioner
The Jacobi preconditioner is one of the simplest forms of preconditioning, in which the preconditioner is chosen to be the diagonal of the matrix  Assuming , we get  It is efficient for diagonally dominant matrices . It is used in analysis softwares for beam problems or 1-D problems (EX:- STAAD PRO)

SPAI
The Sparse Approximate Inverse preconditioner minimises  where  is the Frobenius norm and  is from some suitably constrained set of sparse matrices. Under the Frobenius norm, this reduces to solving numerous independent least-squares problems (one for every column). The entries in  must be restricted to some sparsity pattern or the problem remains as difficult and time-consuming as finding the exact inverse of . The method was introduced by M.J. Grote and T. Huckle together with an approach to selecting sparsity patterns.

Other preconditioners 
 Incomplete Cholesky factorization
 Incomplete LU factorization
 Successive over-relaxation
 Symmetric successive over-relaxation
 Multigrid preconditioning

External links
 Preconditioned Conjugate Gradient – math-linux.com
 Templates for the Solution of Linear Systems: Building Blocks for Iterative Methods

Preconditioning for eigenvalue problems 
Eigenvalue problems can be framed in several alternative ways, each leading to its own preconditioning. The traditional preconditioning is based on the so-called spectral transformations. Knowing (approximately) the targeted eigenvalue, one can compute the corresponding eigenvector by solving the related homogeneous linear system, thus allowing to use preconditioning for linear system. Finally, formulating the eigenvalue problem as optimization of the Rayleigh quotient brings preconditioned optimization techniques to the scene.

Spectral transformations
By analogy with linear systems, for an eigenvalue problem  one may be tempted to replace the matrix  with the matrix  using a preconditioner . However, this makes sense only if the seeking eigenvectors