[Euclid's Elements — Euclid — Gutenberg #5000]

is in the dark but when it comes into the light it dies immediately, because it becomes known;--and so it is with lies. VALOUR. The lion is never afraid, but rather fights with a bold spirit and savage onslaught against a multitude of hunters, always seeking to injure the first that injures him. FEAR OR COWARDICE. The hare is always frightened; and the leaves that fall from the trees in autumn always keep him in terror and generally put him to flight. 1230. MAGNANIMITY. The falcon never preys but on large birds; and it will let itself die rather than feed on little ones, or eat stinking meat. VAIN GLORY. As regards this vice, we read that the peacock is more guilty of it than any other animal. For it is always contemplating the beauty of its tail, which it spreads in the form of a wheel, and by its cries attracts to itself the gaze of the creatures that surround it. And this is the last vice to be conquered. 1231. CONSTANCY. Constancy may be symbolised by the phoenix which, knowing that by nature it must be resuscitated, has the constancy to endure the burning flames which consume it, and then it rises anew. INCONSTANCY. The swallow may serve for Inconstancy, for it is always in movement, since it cannot endure the smallest discomfort. CONTINENCE. The camel is the most lustful animal there is, and will follow the female for a thousand miles. But if you keep it constantly with its mother or sister it will leave them alone, so temperate is its nature. 1232. INCONTINENCE. The unicorn, through its intemperance and not knowing how to control itself, for the love it bears to fair maidens forgets its ferocity and wildness; and laying aside all fear it will go up to a seated damsel and go to sleep in her lap, and thus the hunters take it. HUMILITY. We see the most striking example of humility in the lamb which will submit to any animal; and when they are given for food to imprisoned lions they are as gentle to them as to their own mother, so that very often it has been seen that the lions forbear to kill them. 1233. PRIDE. The falcon, by reason of its haughtiness and pride, is fain to lord it and rule over all the other birds of prey, and longs to be sole and supreme; and very often the falcon has been seen to assault the eagle, the Queen of birds. ABSTINENCE. The wild ass, when it goes to the well to drink, and finds the water troubled, is never so thirsty but that it will abstain from drinking, and wait till the water is clear again. GLUTTONY. The vulture is so addicted to gluttony that it will go a thousand miles to eat a carrion [carcase]; therefore is it that it follows armies. 1234. CHASTITY. The turtle-dove is never false to its mate; and if one dies the other preserves perpetual chastity, and never again sits on a green bough, nor ever again drinks of clear water. UNCHASTITY. The bat, owing to unbridled lust, observes no universal rule in pairing, but males with males and females with females pair promiscuously, as it may happen. MODERATION. The ermine out of moderation never eats but once in the day; it will rather let itself be taken by the hunters than take refuge in a dirty lair, in order not to stain its purity. 1235. THE EAGLE. The eagle when it is old flies so high that it scorches its feathers, and Nature allowing that it should renew its youth, it falls into shallow water *[Footnote 5: The meaning is obscure.]. And if its young ones cannot bear to gaze on the sun *[Footnote 6: The meaning is obscure.]--; it does not feed them with any bird, that does not wish to die. Animals which much fear it do not approach its nest, although it does not hurt them. It always leaves part of its prey uneaten. LUMERPA,--FAME. This is found in Asia Major, and shines so brightly that it absorbs its own shadow, and when it dies it does not lose this light, and its feathers never fall out, but a feather pulled out shines no longer. 1236. THE PELICAN. This bird has a great love for its young; and when it finds them in its nest dead from a serpent's bite, it pierces itself to the heart, and with its blood it bathes them till they return to life. THE SALAMANDER. This has no digestive organs, and gets no food but from the fire, in which it constantly renews its scaly skin. The salamander, which renews its scaly skin in the fire,--for virtue. THE CAMELEON. This lives on air, and there it is the prey of all the birds; so in order to be safer it flies above the clouds and finds an air so rarefied that it cannot support the bird that follows it. At that height nothing can go unless it has a gift from Heaven, and that is where the chameleon flies. 1237. THE ALEPO, A FISH. The fish _alepo_ does not live out of water. THE OSTRICH. This bird converts iron into nourishment, and hatches its eggs by its gaze;--Armies under commanders. THE SWAN. The swan is white without any spot, and it sings sweetly as it dies, its life ending with that song. THE STORK. This bird, by drinking saltwater purges itself of distempers. If the male finds his mate unfaithful, he abandons her; and when it grows old its young ones brood over it, and feed it till it dies. H.1 14a] 1238. THE GRASSHOPPER. This silences the cuckoo with its song. It dies in oil and revives in vinegar. It sings in the greatest heats THE BAT. The more light there is the blinder this creature becomes; as those who gaze most at the sun become most dazzled.--For Vice, that cannot remain where Virtue appears. THE PARTRIDGE. This bird changes from the female into the male and forgets its former sex; and out of envy it steals the eggs from others and hatches them, but the young ones follow the true mother. THE SWALLOW. This bird gives sight to its blind young ones by means of celandine. H.1 14b] 1239. THE OYSTER.--FOR TREACHERY. This creature, when the moon is full opens itself wide, and when the crab looks in he throws in a piece of rock or seaweed and the oyster cannot close again, whereby it serves for food to that crab. This is what happens to him who opens his mouth to tell his secret. He becomes the prey of the treacherous hearer. THE BASILISK.--CRUELTY. All snakes flie from this creature; but the weasel attacks it by means of rue and kills it. THE ASP. This carries instantaneous death in its fangs; and, that it may not hear the charmer it stops its ears with its tail. 1240. THE DRAGON. This creature entangles itself in the legs of the elephant which falls upon it, and so both die, and in its death it is avenged. THE VIPER. She, in pairing opens her mouth and at last clenches her teeth and kills her husband. Then the young ones, growing within her body rend her open and kill their mother. THE SCORPION. Saliva, spit out when fasting will kill a scorpion. This may be likened to abstinence from greediness, which removes and heals the ills which result from that gluttony, and opens the path of virtue. 1241. THE CROCODILE. HYPOCRISY. This animal catches a man and straightway kills him; after he is dead, it weeps for him with a lamentable voice and many tears. Then, having done lamenting, it cruelly devours him. It is thus with the hypocrite, who, for the smallest matter, has his face bathed with tears, but shows the heart of a tiger and rejoices in his heart at the woes of others, while wearing a pitiful face. THE TOAD. The toad flies from the light of the sun, and if it is held there by force it puffs itself out so much as to hide its head below and shield itself from the rays. Thus does the foe of clear and radiant virtue, who can only be constrainedly brought to face it with puffed up courage. 1242. THE CATERPILLAR.--FOR VIRTUE IN GENERAL. The caterpillar, which by means of assiduous care is able to weave round itself a new dwelling place with marvellous artifice and fine workmanship, comes out of it afterwards with painted and lovely wings, with which it rises towards Heaven. THE SPIDER. The spider brings forth out of herself the delicate and ingenious web, which makes her a return by the prey it takes. [Footnote: Two notes are underneath this text. The first: _'nessuna chosa e da ttemere piu che lla sozza fama'_ is a repetition of the first line of the text given in Vol. I No. 695. The second: _faticha fugga cholla fama in braccio quasi ochultata c_ is written in red chalk and is evidently an incomplete sentence.] 1243. THE LION. This animal, with his thundering roar, rouses his young the third day after they are born, teaching them the use of all their dormant senses and all the wild things which are in the wood flee away. This may be compared to the children of Virtue who are roused by the sound of praise and grow up in honourable studies, by which they are more and more elevated; while all that is base flies at the sound, shunning those who are virtuous. Again, the lion covers over its foot tracks, so that the way it has gone may not be known to its enemies. Thus it beseems a captain to conceal the secrets of his mind so that the enemy may not know his purpose. 1244. THE TARANTULA. The bite of the tarantula fixes a man's mind on one idea; that is on the thing he was thinking of when he was bitten. THE SCREECH-OWL AND THE OWL. These punish those who are scoffing at them by pecking out their eyes; for nature has so ordered it, that they may thus be fed. 1245. THE ELEPHANT. The huge elephant has by nature what is rarely found in man; that is Honesty, Prudence, Justice, and the Observance of Religion; inasmuch as when the moon is new, these beasts go down to the rivers, and there, solemnly cleansing themselves, they bathe, and so, having saluted the planet, return to the woods. And when they are ill, being laid down, they fling up plants towards Heaven as though they would offer sacrifice. --They bury their tusks when they fall out from old age.--Of these two tusks they use