# STS-126

STS-126 was the one hundred and twenty-fourth NASA Space Shuttle mission, and twenty-second orbital flight of the Space Shuttle Endeavour (OV-105) to the International Space Station (ISS). The purpose of the mission, referred to as ULF2 by the ISS program, was to deliver equipment and supplies to the station, to service the Solar Alpha Rotary Joints (SARJ), and repair the problem in the starboard SARJ that had limited its use since STS-120. STS-126 launched on 15 November 2008 at 00:55:39 UTC from Launch Pad 39A (LC-39A) at NASA's Kennedy Space Center (KSC) with no delays or issues. Endeavour successfully docked with the station on 16 November 2008. After spending 15 days, 20 hours, 30 minutes, and 30 seconds docked to the station, during which the crew performed four spacewalks, and transferred cargo, the orbiter undocked on 28 November 2008. Due to poor weather at Kennedy Space Center, Endeavour landed at Edwards Air Force Base on 30 November 2008 at 21:25:09 UTC.

Crew

Crew notes 
Joan E. Higginbotham was originally scheduled to fly on STS-126, she was previously mission specialist 4 on STS-116. On 21 November 2007, NASA announced a change in the crew manifest due to Higginbotham's decision to leave NASA to take a job in the private sector. Stephen G. Bowen was originally assigned to STS-124 but was moved to STS-126 to allow Discovery to rotate Greg Chamitoff with Garrett E. Reisman.

Mission payloads 
STS-126 was scheduled to be a sixteen-day mission with four spacewalks (EVA), largely dedicated to servicing and repair of the Solar Alpha Rotary Joints (SARJ). An additional docked day was added to the flight plan to give the crew more time to complete their tasks. The starboard SARJ had shown anomalous behavior since August 2007, and its use has been minimized pending diagnosis and repair. Both the port and starboard SARJs were serviced. In addition to lubricating both bearings, the remaining 11 trundle bearings in the starboard SARJ were replaced. Trundle bearing assembly No. 5, one of the 12 assemblies, was removed during an Expedition 16 EVA for further examination in December 2007.

STS-126 included the Leonardo Multi-Purpose Logistics Module (MPLM) on its fifth spaceflight. Leonardo held over  of supplies and equipment. Among the items packed into the MPLM were two new crew quarters racks, a second galley (kitchen) for the Destiny laboratory, a second Waste and Hygiene Compartment (WHC) rack (lavatory), the advanced Resistive Exercise Device (aRED), two water reclamation racks, spare hardware, and new experiments. Also included in Leonardo was the General Laboratory Active Cryogenic ISS Experiment Refrigerator, or GLACIER, a double locker cryogenic freezer for transporting and preserving science experiments. The shuttle also carried irradiated turkey, candied yams, stuffing and dessert for a special Thanksgiving meal at the station, as well as an Official Flight Kit with mementos for those who supported the astronauts and helped them complete their mission successfully. Also carried was a Lightweight MPESS Carrier (LMC) carrying a Flex Hose Rotary Coupler (FHRC) and returning a Nitrogen Assembly Tank from Quest for refurbishment.

Educational outreach 
STS-126 carried the signatures of over 500,000 students that participated in the 2008 Student Signatures in Space program, jointly sponsored by NASA and Lockheed Martin. In celebration of Space Day last May 2008, students from over 500 schools signed giant posters, their signatures were scanned onto a disk, and the disk was flown on the STS-126 mission. The Student Signatures in Space project has been active since 1997, and has flown student signatures on seven other shuttle flights, starting with STS-86.

Agricultural camera (AgCam) 
Also aboard STS-126 was the Agricultural Camera (AgCam) which was installed in the Destiny module and is used to assist farmers and provide educational opportunities for students around the country. Students and faculty at the University of North Dakota built the Agricultural Camera (AgCam), that was to be delivered and installed on the International Space Station. The students will operate the camera from their campus and work with NASA engineers and station astronauts to take visible and infrared light images of growing crops, grasslands, forests and wetlands in the Great Plains and Rocky Mountains regions.

The information from AgCam provided data to agricultural producers in North Dakota and neighboring states, benefiting farmers and ranchers and providing ways for them to protect the environment. AgCam imagery also may assist in disaster management, such as flood monitoring and wild fire mapping.

Cow embryos and pig cells in space 
STS-126 also flew the first bovine embryos as well as porcine embryonic stem cells on an American spacecraft for an experiment to evaluate effects of the environment of space on embryonic development. The project was a joint project of ZeroGravity Inc., University of Florida and USDA ARS.

Mission background 
The mission marks:
 155th NASA crewed space flight
 124th Space Shuttle mission since STS-1
 99th post-Challenger mission
 11th post-Columbia mission
 22nd flight of Endeavour
 27th shuttle mission to the ISS
 31st night launch

Shuttle processing 

Space Shuttle Endeavour was moved from the Orbiter Processing Facility (OPF-2) at Kennedy Space Center to the Vehicle Assembly Building (VAB) on 11 September 2008. Rollout to launch pad 39B took place overnight on 18 September 2008 and was completed at 12:00 UTC on 19 September 2008.

Endeavour was originally moved to launch pad 39B ahead of the normal schedule to be on standby as the Launch on Need (LON) flight for STS-125. In the event that something happened to Atlantis during its flight to service the Hubble Space Telescope, a rescue flight could be performed with Endeavour. With both Atlantis and Endeavour on the pads, it was the 18th time that two flight-ready orbiters were in position at both launch pads at the same time.

On 29 September 2008, NASA announced that due to a problem with the Hubble telescope, they would be revising the manifest to postpone STS-125 until 2009, so a solution to the issue with the telescope could be integrated into the flight plan. This moved STS-126 to the next flight, so on 23 October 2008 Endeavour was moved from launch pad 39B to 39A.

The payload for STS-126, including the MPLM Leonardo, arrived at launch pad 39A early on 22 October 2008.

Mission timeline

Launch preparations 

The countdown to launch began on 11 November 2008 and the crew flew in from Johnson Space Center (JSC) to the Kennedy Space Center to prepare for the launch. On 12 November 2008, Mission Management Team (MMT) Chairman LeRoy E. Cain announced that the MMT gave the official "go" for Endeavours launch on 13 November 2008 and Ferguson and Boe practiced landings in the Shuttle Training Aircraft (STA). Weather reports on 13 November 2008 gave a 70% chance of acceptable weather conditions for launch.

14 November (Flight day 1, Launch) 
Filling of the external tank with liquid hydrogen and liquid oxygen propellants started at 15:30 UTC on 14 November 2008. After suiting up into the launch and entry suits, the crew left the Operations and Checkout Building (O&C) in the Astrovan and arrived at the launch pad at 21:22 UTC. At 21:30 UTC, the crew began ingress into the orbiter, and by 22:25 UTC, all crewmembers were in their seats and performed communications checks with the ground control personnel. At 23:00 UTC, the closeout crew closed and locked Endeavours hatch, and the orbiter's cabin was pressurized in preparation for launch. Despite a last minute issue with the white room closeout door not being fully secured, NASA Launch Director Michael D. Leinbach polled the team, determined the door did not pose a hazard to the orbiter or crew, and told the crew "Good luck, Godspeed and have a happy Thanksgiving in orbit". Endeavour lifted off on time at 00:55:39 UTC. External tank separation occurred at 01:03 UTC.

After reaching orbit, the crew began working through the post-insertion timeline, which included opening the orbiter's payload bay doors, deploying the Ku-band antenna, powering up and activating the shuttle robotic arm (Canadarm), and performing a burn of the Orbital Maneuvering System (OMS).

15 November (Flight day 2) 

The second day in space for the crew was devoted to completing the initial inspection of Endeavours heat shield. Using the shuttle's robotic arm (Canadarm) and the Orbiter Boom Sensor System (OBSS), the crew took detailed images of the exterior of the orbiter for the image analysis team to review. The crew also continued to prepare for docking with the station on 16 November 2008, by extending the docking ring, installing the centerline camera, and organizing the tools needed for rendezvous with the station. The crew also performed a checkout of the spacesuits that will be used for the spacewalks during the mission.

During the