# A-group

In mathematics, in the area of abstract algebra known as group theory, an A-group is a type of group that is similar to abelian groups.  The groups were first studied in the 1940s by Philip Hall, and are still studied today.  A great deal is known about their structure.

Definition
An A-group is a finite group with the property that all of its Sylow subgroups are abelian.

History
The term A-group was probably first used in , where attention was restricted to soluble A-groups.  Hall's presentation was rather brief without proofs, but his remarks were soon expanded with proofs in .  The representation theory of A-groups was studied in .  Carter then published an important relationship between Carter subgroups and Hall's work in .  The work of Hall, Taunt, and Carter was presented in textbook form in .  The focus on soluble A-groups broadened, with the classification of finite simple A-groups in  which allowed generalizing Taunt's work to finite groups in .  Interest in A-groups also broadened due to an important relationship to varieties of groups discussed in .  Modern interest in A-groups was renewed when new enumeration techniques enabled tight asymptotic bounds on the number of distinct isomorphism classes of A-groups in .

Properties
The following can be said about A-groups:
 Every subgroup, quotient group, and direct product of A-groups are A-groups.
 Every finite abelian group is an A-group.
 A finite nilpotent group is an A-group if and only if it is abelian.
 The symmetric group on three points is an A-group that is not abelian.
 Every group of cube-free order is an A-group. 
 The derived length of an A-group can be arbitrarily large, but no larger than the number of distinct prime divisors of the order, stated in , and presented in textbook form as .
 The lower nilpotent series coincides with the derived series .
 A soluble A-group has a unique maximal abelian normal subgroup .
 The Fitting subgroup of a solvable A-group is equal to the direct product of the centers of the terms of the derived series, first stated in , then proven in , and presented in textbook form in .
 A non-abelian finite simple group is an A-group if and only if it is isomorphic to the first Janko group or to PSL(2,q) where q > 3 and either q = 2n or q ≡ 3,5 mod 8, as shown in .
 All the groups in the variety generated by a finite group are finitely approximable if and only if that group is an A-group, as shown in .
 Like Z-groups, whose Sylow subgroups are cyclic, A-groups can be easier to study than general finite groups because of the restrictions on the local structure.  For instance, a more precise enumeration of soluble A-groups was found after an enumeration of soluble groups with fixed, but arbitrary Sylow subgroups .  A more leisurely exposition is given in .

References

, especially Kap. VI, §14, p751–760

Properties of groups
Finite groups