# PLS (complexity)

In computational complexity theory, Polynomial Local Search (PLS) is a complexity class that models the difficulty of finding a locally optimal solution to an optimization problem. The main characteristics of problems that lie in PLS are that the cost of a solution can be calculated in polynomial time and the neighborhood of a solution can be searched in polynomial time. Therefore it is possible to verify whether or not a solution is a local optimum in polynomial time.
Furthermore, depending on the problem and the algorithm that is used for solving the problem, it might be faster to find a local optimum instead of a global optimum.

Description
When searching for a local optimum, there are two interesting issues to deal with: First how to find a local optimum, and second how long it takes to find a local optimum. For many local search algorithms, it is not known, whether they can find a local optimum in polynomial time or not. So to answer the question of how long it takes to find a local optimum, Johnson, Papadimitriou and Yannakakis   introduced the complexity class PLS in their paper "How easy is local search?". It contains local search problems for which the local optimality can be verified in polynomial time.

A local search problem is in PLS, if the following properties are satisfied:
 The size of every solution is polynomially bounded in the size of the instance .
 It is possible to find some solution of a problem instance in polynomial time. 
 It is possible to calculate the cost of each solution in polynomial time.
 It is possible to find all neighbors of each solution in polynomial time.

With these properties, it is possible to find for each solution  the best neighboring solution or if there is no such better neighboring solution, state that  is a local optimum.

Example
Consider the following instance  of the Max-2Sat Problem: . The aim is to find an assignment, that maximizes the sum of the satisfied clauses.

A solution  for that instance is a bit string that assigns every  the value 0 or 1. In this case, a solution consists of 3 bits, for example , which stands for the assignment of  to  with the value 0. The set of solutions  is the set of all possible assignments of ,  and .

The cost of each solution is the number of satisfied clauses, so  because the second and third clause are satisfied.

The Flip-neighbor of a solution  is reached by flipping one bit of the bit string , so the neighbors of  are  with the following costs:

There are no neighbors with better costs than , if we are looking for a solution with maximum cost. Even though  is not a global optimum (which for example would be a solution  that satisfies all clauses and has ),  is a local optimum, because none of its neighbors has better costs.

Intuitively it can be argued that this problem lies in PLS, because:
 It is possible to find a solution to an instance in polynomial time, for example by setting all bits to 0.
 It is possible to calculate the cost of a solution in polynomial time, by going once through the whole instance and counting the clauses that are satisfied.
 It is possible to find all neighbors of a solution in polynomial time, by taking the set of solutions that differ from  in exactly one bit.

If we are simply counting the number of satisfied clauses, the problem can be solved in polynomial time since the number of possible costs is polynomial.  However, if we assign each clause a positive integer weight (and seek to locally maximize the sum of weights of satisfied clauses), the problem becomes PLS-complete (below).

Formal Definition

A local search problem  has a set  of instances which are encoded using strings over a finite alphabet . For each instance  there exists a finite solution set . Let  be the relation that models . The relation  is in PLS  if:
 The size of every solution  is polynomial bounded in the size of 
 Problem instances  and solutions  are polynomial time verifiable
 There is a polynomial time computable function  that returns for each instance  some solution 
 There is a polynomial time computable function   that returns for each solution  of an instance  the cost 
 There is a polynomial time computable function  that returns the set of neighbors for an instance-solution pair
 There is a polynomial time computable function  that returns a neighboring solution  with better cost than solution , or states that  is locally optimal
 For every instance ,  exactly contains the pairs  where  is a local optimal solution of 

An instance  has the structure of an implicit graph (also called Transition graph ), the vertices being the solutions with two solutions  connected by a directed arc iff .

A local optimum is a solution , that has no neighbor with better costs. In the implicit graph, a local optimum is a sink. A neighborhood where every local optimum is a global optimum, which is a solution with the best possible cost, is called an exact neighborhood.

Alternative Definition

The class PLS is the class containing all problems that can be reduced in polynomial time to the problem Sink-of-DAG (also called  Local-Opt ):
Given two integers  and  and two Boolean circuits  such that  and , find a vertex  such that  and either  or .

Example neighborhood structures

Example neighborhood structures for problems with boolean variables (or bit strings) as solution:

 Flip - The neighborhood of a solution  can be achieved by negating (flipping) one arbitrary input bit . So one solution  and all its neighbors  have Hamming distance one: .
 Kernighan-Lin  - A solution  is a neighbor of solution  if  can be obtained from  by a sequence of greedy flips, where no bit is flipped twice. This means, starting with , the Flip-neighbor  of  with the best cost, or the least loss of cost, is chosen to be a neighbor of s in the Kernighan-Lin structure. As well as best (or least worst) neighbor of  , and so on, until  is a solution where every bit of  is negated. Note that it is not allowed to flip a bit back, if it once has been flipped.
 k-Flip - A solution  is a neighbor of solution  if the Hamming distance  between  and  is at most , so .

Example neighborhood structures for problems on graphs:

 Swap - A partition   of nodes in a graph is a neighbor of a partition  if  can be obtained from  by swapping one node  with a node .
 Kernighan-Lin - A partition  is a neighbor of  if  can be obtained by a greedy sequence of swaps from nodes in  with nodes in . This means the two nodes  and  are swapped, where the partition  gains the highest possible weight, or loses the least possible weight. Note that no node is allowed to be swapped twice.
 Fiduccia-Matheyses  - This neighborhood is similar to the Kernighan-Lin neighborhood structure, it is a greedy sequence of swaps, except that each swap happens in two steps. First the  with the most gain of cost, or the least loss of cost, is swapped to , then the node  with the most cost, or the least loss of cost is swapped to  to balance the partitions again. Experiments have shown that Fiduccia-Mattheyses has a smaller run time in each iteration of the standard algorithm, though it sometimes finds an inferior local optimum.
 FM-Swap - This neighborhood structure is based on the Fiduccia-Mattheyses neighborhood structure. Each solution  has only one neighbor, the partition obtained after the first swap of the Fiduccia-Mattheyses.

The standard Algorithm

Consider the following computational problem:
Given some instance  of a PLS problem , find a locally optimal solution  such that  for all .

Every local search problem can be solved using the following iterative improvement algorithm:

 Use  to find an initial solution 
 Use algorithm  to find a better solution . If such a solution exists, replace  by  and repeat step 2, else return 

Unfortunately, it generally takes an exponential number of improvement steps to find a local optimum even if the problem  can be solved exactly in polynomial time. It is not necessary always to use the standard algorithm, there may be a different, faster algorithm for a certain problem. For example a local search algorithm used for Linear programming is the Simplex algorithm.

The run time of the standard algorithm is pseudo-polynomial in the number of different costs of a solution.

The space the standard algorithm needs is only polynomial. It only needs to save the current solution , which is polynomial bounded by definition.

Reductions

A Reduction of one problem to another may be used to show that the second problem is at least as difficult as the first. In particular, a PLS-reduction is used to prove that a local search problem that lies in PLS is also PLS-complete, by reducing a PLS-complete Problem to the one that shall be proven to be PLS-complete.

PLS-reduction

A local search problem  is PLS-reducible to a local search problem  if there are two polynomial time functions  and  such that:
 if  is an instance of  , then  is an instance of 
 if  is a solution for