[Euclid's Elements — Euclid — Gutenberg #5000]

carrying men to the destruction of their lives. *(Of the Stars of Spurs.)* By the aid of the stars men will be seen who will be as swift as any swift animal. *(Of a Stick, which is dead.)* The motions of a dead thing will make many living ones flee with pain and lamentation and cries. *(Of Tinder.)* With a stone and with iron things will be made visible which before were not seen. 1296. *(Of going in Ships.)* We shall see the trees of the great forests of Taurus and of Sinai and of the Appenines and others, rush by means of the air, from East to West and from North to South; and carry, by means of the air, great multitudes of men. Oh! how many vows! Oh! how many deaths! Oh! how many partings of friends and relations! Oh! how many will those be who will never again see their own country nor their native land, and who will die unburied, with their bones strewn in various parts of the world! *(Of moving on All Saints' Day.)* Many will forsake their own dwellings and carry with them all their belongings and will go to live in other parts. *(Of All Souls' Day.)* How many will they be who will bewail their deceased forefathers, carrying lights to them. *(Of Friars, who spending nothing but words, receive great gifts and bestow Paradise.)* Invisible money will procure the triumph of many who will spend it. *(Of Bows made of the Horns of Oxen.)* Many will there be who will die a painful death by means of the horns of cattle. *(Of writing Letters from one Country to another.)* Men will speak with each other from the most remote countries, and reply. *(Of Hemispheres, which are infinite; and which are divided by an infinite number of Lines, so that every Man always has one of these Lines between his Feet.)* Men standing in opposite hemispheres will converse and deride each other and embrace each other, and understand each other's language. *(Of Priests who say Mass.)* There will be many men who, when they go to their labour will put on the richest clothes, and these will be made after the fashion of aprons [petticoats]. *(Of Friars who are Confessors.)* And unhappy women will, of their own free will, reveal to men all their sins and shameful and most secret deeds. *(Of Churches and the Habitations of Friars.)* Many will there be who will give up work and labour and poverty of life and goods, and will go to live among wealth in splendid buildings, declaring that this is the way to make themselves acceptable to God. *(Of Selling Paradise.)* An infinite number of men will sell publicly and unhindered things of the very highest price, without leave from the Master of it; while it never was theirs nor in their power; and human justice will not prevent it. *(Of the Dead which are carried to be buried.)* The simple folks will carry vast quantities of lights to light up the road for those who have entirely lost the power of sight. *(Of Dowries for Maidens.)* And whereas, at first, maidens could not be protected against the violence of Men, neither by the watchfulness of parents nor by strong walls, the time will come when the fathers and parents of those girls will pay a large price to a man who wants to marry them, even if they are rich, noble and most handsome. Certainly this seems as though nature wished to eradicate the human race as being useless to the world, and as spoiling all created things. *(Of the Cruelty of Man.)* Animals will be seen on the earth who will always be fighting against each other with the greatest loss and frequent deaths on each side. And there will be no end to their malignity; by their strong limbs we shall see a great portion of the trees of the vast forests laid low throughout the universe; and, when they are filled with food the satisfaction of their desires will be to deal death and grief and labour and wars and fury to every living thing; and from their immoderate pride they will desire to rise towards heaven, but the too great weight of their limbs will keep them down. Nothing will remain on earth, or under the earth or in the waters which will not be persecuted, disturbed and spoiled, and those of one country removed into another. And their bodies will become the sepulture and means of transit of all they have killed. O Earth! why dost thou not open and engulf them in the fissures of thy vast abyss and caverns, and no longer display in the sight of heaven such a cruel and horrible monster. 1297. PROPHECIES. There will be many which will increase in their destruction. *(The Ball of Snow rolling over Snow.)* There will be many who, forgetting their existence and their name, will lie as dead on the spoils of other dead creatures. *(Sleeping on the Feathers of Birds.)* The East will be seen to rush to the West and the South to the North in confusion round and about the universe, with great noise and trembling or fury. *(In the East wind which rushes to the West.)* The solar rays will kindle fire on the earth, by which a thing that is under the sky will be set on fire, and, being reflected by some obstacle, it will bend downwards. *(The Concave Mirror kindles a Fire, with which we heat the oven, and this has its foundation beneath its roof.)* A great part of the sea will fly towards heaven and for a long time will not return. *(That is, in Clouds.)* There remains the motion which divides the mover from the thing moved. Those who give light for divine service will be destroyed.*(The Bees which make the Wax for Candles)* Dead things will come from underground and by their fierce movements will send numberless human beings out of the world. *(Iron, which comes from under ground is dead but the Weapons are made of it which kill so many Men.)* The greatest mountains, even those which are remote from the sea shore, will drive the sea from its place. *(This is by Rivers which carry the Earth they wash away from the Mountains and bear it to the Sea-shore; and where the Earth comes the sea must retire.)* The water dropped from the clouds still in motion on the flanks of mountains will lie still for a long period of time without any motion whatever; and this will happen in many and divers lands. *(Snow, which falls in flakes and is Water.)* The great rocks of the mountains will throw out fire; so that they will burn the timber of many vast forests, and many beasts both wild and tame. *(The Flint in the Tinder-box which makes a Fire that consumes all the loads of Wood of which the Forests are despoiled and with this the flesh of Beasts is cooked.)* Oh! how many great buildings will be ruined by reason of Fire. *(The Fire of great Guns.)* Oxen will be to a great extent the cause of the destruction of cities, and in the same way horses and buffaloes. *(By drawing Guns.)* 1298. The Lion tribe will be seen tearing open the earth with their clawed paws and in the caves thus made, burying themselves together with the other animals that are beneath them. Animals will come forth from the earth in gloomy vesture, which will attack the human species with astonishing assaults, and which by their ferocious bites will make confusion of blood among those they devour. Again the air will be filled with a mischievous winged race which will assail men and beasts and feed upon them with much noise-- filling themselves with scarlet blood. 1299. Blood will be seen issuing from the torn flesh of men, and trickling down the surface. Men will have such cruel maladies that they will tear their flesh with their own nails. *(The Itch.)* Plants will be seen left without leaves, and the rivers standing still in their channels. The waters of the sea will rise above the high peaks of the mountains towards heaven and fall again on to the dwellings of men. *(That is, in Clouds.)* The largest trees of the forest will be seen carried by the fury of the winds from East to West. *(That is across the Sea.)* Men will cast away their own victuals. *(That is, in Sowing.)* I.2 26a] 1300. Human beings will be seen who will not understand each other's speech; that is, a German with a Turk. Fathers will be seen giving their daughters into the power of man and giving up all their former care in guarding them. *(When Girls are married.)* Men will come out their graves turned into flying creatures; and they will attack other men, taking their food from their very hand or table. *(As Flies.)* Many will there be who, flaying their mother, will tear the skin from her back. (Husbandmen tilling the Earth.) Happy will they be who lend ear to the words of the Dead. (Who read good works and obey them.) 1031. Feathers will raise men, as they do birds, towards heaven (that is, by the letters which are written with quills.) The works of men's hands will occasion their death. (Swords and Spears.) Men out of fear will cling to the thing they most fear. (That is they will be miserable lest they should fall into misery.) Things that are separate shall be united and acquire such virtue that they will restore to man his lost memory; that is papyrus [sheets] which are made of separate strips and have preserved the memory of the things and acts of men. The bones of the Dead will be seen to govern the fortunes of him who moves them. (By Dice.) Cattle with their horns protect the Flame from its death. (In a Lantern [Footnote 13: See note page 357.].) The Forests will bring forth young which will be the cause of their death. (The handle of the hatchet.) 1302. Men will deal bitter blows to that which is the cause of their life. (In thrashing Grain.) The skins of animals will rouse men from their silence with great outcries and curses. (Balls for playing Games.) Very often a thing that is itself broken is the occasion of much union. (That is the Comb made of split Cane which unites the threads of Silk.) The wind passing through the skins of animals will make men dance. (That is the Bag-pipe, which makes people dance.) 1303. *( Of Walnut trees, that are beaten. )* Those which have done