ME Research Paper

Title: Effect of Hydrogen Injection Strategy on Combustion and Emissions of Ammonia–Hydrogen Sustainable Engines

Abstract:
Driven by the global energy transition and the dual carbon goals, developing low-carbon and zero-carbon alternative fuels has become a core issue for sustainable development in the internal combustion engine sector. Ammonia is a promising zero-carbon fuel with broad application prospects. However, its inherent combustion characteristics, including slow flame propagation, high ignition energy, and narrow flammable range, limit its use in internal combustion engines, necessitating the addition of auxiliary fuels. To address this issue, this paper proposes a composite injection technology combining “ammonia duct injection + hydrogen cylinder direct injection.” This technology utilizes highly reactive hydrogen to promote ammonia combustion, compensating for ammonia’s shortcomings and enabling efficient and smooth engine operation. This study, based on bench testing, investigated the effects of hydrogen direct injection timing (180, 170, 160, 150, 140°, 130, 120 °CA BTDC), hydrogen direct injection pressure (4, 5, 6, 7, 8 MPa) on the combustion and emissions of the ammonia–hydrogen engine. Under hydrogen direct injection timing and hydrogen direct injection pressure conditions, the hydrogen mixture ratios are 10%, 20%, 30%, 40%, and 50%, respectively. Test results indicate that hydrogen injection timing that is too early or too late prevents the formation of an optimal hydrogen layered state within the cylinder, leading to prolonged flame development period and CA10-90. The peak HRR also exhibits a trend of first increasing and then decreasing as the hydrogen direct injection timing is delayed. Increasing the hydrogen direct injection pressure to 8 MPa enhances the initial kinetic energy of the hydrogen jet, intensifies the gas flow within the cylinder, and shortens the CA0-10 and CA10-90, respectively. Under five different hydrogen direct injection ratios, the CA10-90 is shortened by 9.71%, 11.44%, 13.29%, 9.09%, and 13.42%, respectively, improving the combustion stability of the ammonia–hydrogen engine.