# Wolff rearrangement

The Wolff rearrangement is a reaction in organic chemistry in which an α-diazocarbonyl compound is converted into a ketene by loss of dinitrogen with accompanying 1,2-rearrangement.  The Wolff rearrangement yields a ketene as an intermediate product, which can undergo nucleophilic attack with weakly acidic nucleophiles such as water, alcohols, and amines, to generate carboxylic acid derivatives or undergo [2+2] cycloaddition reactions to form four-membered rings. The mechanism of the Wolff rearrangement has been the subject of debate since its first use.  No single mechanism sufficiently describes the reaction, and there are often competing concerted and carbene-mediated pathways; for simplicity, only the textbook, concerted mechanism is shown below.  The reaction was discovered by Ludwig Wolff in 1902.  The Wolff rearrangement has great synthetic utility due to the accessibility of α-diazocarbonyl compounds, variety of reactions from the ketene intermediate, and stereochemical retention of the migrating group.  However, the Wolff rearrangement has limitations due to the highly reactive nature of α-diazocarbonyl compounds, which can undergo a variety of competing reactions.
 

The Wolff rearrangement can be induced via thermolysis, photolysis, or transition metal catalysis.  In this last case, the reaction is sensitive to the transition metal; silver (I) oxide or other Ag(I) catalysts work well and are generally used.  The Wolff rearrangement has been used in many total syntheses; the most common use is trapping the ketene intermediate with nucleophiles to form carboxylic acid derivatives.  The Arndt-Eistert homologation is a specific example of this use, wherein a carboxylic acid may be elongated by a methylene unit.  Another common use is in ring-contraction methods; if the α-diazo ketone is cyclic, the Wolff rearrangement results in a ring-contracted product.  The Wolff rearrangement works well in generating ring-strained systems, where other reactions may fail.

History
In 1902, Wolff discovered that treating diazoacetophenone with silver (I) oxide and water resulted in formation of phenylacetic acid.  Similarly, treatment with silver (I) oxide and ammonia formed phenylacetamide.  A few years later, in an independent study, Schröter observed similar results.  The reaction is occasionally called the Wolff-Schröter rearrangement.  The Wolff rearrangement was not commonly used until 20 years after it was discovered, as facile diazo ketone synthesis was unknown until the 1930s.  The reaction has proven useful in synthetic organic chemistry and many reviews have been published.

Mechanism
The mechanistic pathway of the Wolff-rearrangement has been the subject of much debate, as there are often competing concerted and stepwise mechanisms.  However, two aspects of the mechanism can be agreed upon.  First, α-diazocarbonyl compounds are in an equilibrium of s-cis and s-trans-conformers, the distribution of which may influence the mechanism of the reaction.  Generally, under photolysis, compounds in the s-cis conformation react in a concerted manner due to the antiperiplanar relationship between the leaving and migrating groups, whereas compounds in the s-trans conformation react stepwise through a carbene intermediate or do not rearrange.  Second, regardless of the reaction mechanism, the rearrangement gives a ketene intermediate, which can be trapped by a weakly acidic nucleophile, such as an alcohol or amine, to give the corresponding ester or amide, or an olefin, to give a [2+2] cycloaddition adduct.  Strong acids do not rearrange, but rather protonate the α-carbon and give SN2 products.

Stereochemistry of α-diazo ketones
Understanding the stereochemistry of α-diazo ketones is essential in elucidating the mechanism of the Wolff rearrangement.  α-diazocarbonyl compounds are generally locally planar, with large rotational barriers (55–65 kJ/mol) due to C-C olefin character between the carbonyl and α-carbon, illustrated in the rightmost resonance structure.  Such a large barrier slows molecular rotations sufficiently to lead to an equilibrium between two conformers, an s-trans and s-cis-conformer. s-cis-Conformers are electronically favored due to Coulombic attraction between the oxygen with a partial negative charge and the cationic nitrogen, as seen in the rightmost resonance structure.  If R1 is large and R2 is hydrogen, s-cis is sterically favored.  If R1 and R2 are large, s-trans is sterically favored; if both substituents are sufficiently large, the steric repulsion can outweigh the Coulombic attraction, leading to a preference for s-trans.  Small and medium cyclic substrates are constrained in the s-cis conformation.

Concerted mechanism
When the α-diazo ketone is in the s-cis conformation, the leaving group (N2) and the migrating group (R1) are antiperiplanar, which favors a concerted mechanism, in which nitrogen extrusion occurs concurrently with 1,2-alkyl shift.  There is evidence this mechanism occurs in both thermolytic and photolytic methods, when the s-cis-conformer is strongly favored.
 

CIDNP studies show that photochemical rearrangement of diazoacetone, which largely exists in the s-cis-conformer, is concerted.  Product ratios from direct and triplet-sensitized photolysis have been used as evidence for proposals that claim that concerted products arise from the s-cis-conformer and stepwise products occur through the s-trans-conformer.

Stepwise mechanism
s-trans-α-Diazo ketones do not have an antiperiplanar relationship between the leaving and migrating group, and thus are thought to generally rearrange stepwise.  The stepwise mechanism begins with nitrogen extrusion, forming an α-ketocarbene.  The α-ketocarbene can either undergo a 1,2-alkyl shift, to give the ketene product, or can undergo a 4π electrocyclic ring closure, to form an antiaromatic oxirene.  This oxirene can reopen in two ways, to either α-ketocarbene, which can then form the ketene product.

There are two primary arguments for stepwise mechanisms.  The first is that rate constants of Wolff rearrangements depend on the stability of the formed carbene, rather than the migratory aptitude of the migrating group.  The most definitive evidence is isotopic scrambling of the ketene, as predicted by an oxirene intermediate, which can only occur in the stepwise path.  In the scheme below, the red carbon is 13C labelled. The symmetric oxirene intermediate can open either way, scrambling the 13C label.  If the substituents R1 and R2 are the same, one can quantify the ratio of products stemming from the concerted and stepwise mechanisms; if the substituents are different, the oxirene will have a preference in the direction it opens, and a ratio cannot be quantified, but any scrambling indicates some reactant is going through a stepwise mechanism.  In photolysis of diazo acetaldehyde, 8% of the label is scrambled, indicating that 16% of product is formed via the oxirene intermediate.  Under photolysis, the biphenyl (R1=R2=phenyl) substrate shows 20–30% label migration, implying 40–60% of  product goes through the oxirene intermediate.  α-diazocyclohexanone shows no label scrambling under photolytic conditions, as it is entirely s-cis, and thus all substrate goes through the concerted mechanism, avoiding the oxirene intermediate.
 

Isotopic labeling studies have been used extensively to measure the ratio of product stemming from a concerted mechanism versus a stepwise mechanism.  These studies confirm that reactants that prefer s-trans conformations tend to undergo stepwise reaction.  The degree of scrambling is also affected by carbene stability, migratory abilities, and nucleophilicity of solvent.  The observation that the migratory ability of a substituent is inversely proportional to amount of carbene formed, indicates that under photolysis, there are competing pathways for many Wolff reactions. The only Wolff rearrangements that show no scrambling are s-cis constrained cyclic α-diazo ketones.

Mechanistic conclusion
Under both thermolytic and photolytic conditions, there exist competing concerted and stepwise mechanisms.  Many mechanistic studies have been carried out, including conformational, sensitization, kinetic, and isotopic scrambling studies.  These all point to competing mechanisms, with general trends.  α-Diazo ketones that exist in the s-cis conformation generally undergo a concerted mechanism, whereas those in the s-trans conformation undergo a stepwise mechanism.  α-diazo ketones with better migratory groups prefer a concerted mechanism.  However, for all substrates except cyclic α-diazo ketones that exist solely in the s-cis conformation, products come from a combination of both pathways.  Transition metal mediated reactions are quite varied; however, they generally prefer forming the metal carbene intermediate.  The complete mechanism under photolysis can be approximated in the following figure:

Migratory trends
The mechanism of the Wolff re