# Finisterre universe

The Finisterre universe is a fictional universe created by American science fiction and fantasy author C. J. Cherryh. Currently, it comprises a series of two science fiction / horror novels written by Cherryh, Rider at the Gate (1995) and Cloud's Rider (1996), also known as The Rider Series. They were published by Warner Books in the US and Hodder & Stoughton in the United Kingdom. The series is about the descendants of lost colonists stranded many generations ago on the hostile planet of Finisterre. For continuity, the two novels should be read in publication sequence.

Background
Finisterre ("End of the Earth") is an Earth-like planet targeted for colonisation, but the colonists soon discover that what they thought was a hospitable world is not suitable for humans at all because the local fauna is telepathic. These creatures send and receive images to and from the ambient, which the unwary humans intercepted, resulting in a mind-clouding "noise" that distressed many of the settlers and even drove some of them mad. To make matters worse, the mothership that delivered the colonists to the planet never returned.  Underscoring the colonists' difficult situation, Cherryh has described Anne McCaffrey's Pern and Marion Zimmer Bradley's Darkover worlds as having the same underlying characteristic as Finisterre in terms of being "a bad real estate deal."

With nowhere to go, Finisterre's colonists therefore built and retreated into encampments surrounded by wooden palisade walls, and hid behind religious dogma based on fear and ignorance. The "beasts" on the planet and the "noise" they made terrified the humans. The preachers referred to these beasts as the work of the Devil and condemned any contact with them. Typical refrains from the church were:
Harken not to the beasts.
Death and damnation to the followers of the beasts!	
Pray for your children, that they follow not the beasts.
But a group of men and women known as riders turned their back on the church and partnered up with some of the planet's nighthorses, alien horse-like animals. The riders became a necessary evil to keep the fragile human settlements alive: they supplied and protected the villages and towns. The preachers continued their rhetoric and conveniently forgot that while a rider can survive without a village, a village cannot survive without riders.

Finisterre
Finisterre is Earth-like in many respects with ore-rich mountains, large forests, fertile land and plenty of water. But the comparison ends there: the native fauna, from tiny wally-boos and willy-wisps, to large goblin cats, spook bears and nighthorses are telepathic. The animals project into the surrounding ambient what it is they see and feel. These "sendings" are picked up by other animals in the vicinity, alerting them to the presence of friend or foe before they come into view. The animals "see" around themselves by monitoring the ambient. But some of the creatures are smart and can camouflage themselves in the ambient. Predatory goblin cats can project themselves, for example, as small willy-wisps. Others can hide by sending images of themselves being somewhere else. Spook bears can send out any image they have ever received and make you believe it is real and happening right now. Finisterre was a frightening place for the early settlers.

The colonists encountered many different types of creatures on Finisterre, but the small ones were often too numerous and dangerous to catalogue and were referred to generically as "ghosties" or "spooks".

Nighthorses
Nighthorses (so-called because of their jet-black coats) are the largest and most intelligent animals the colonists discovered. They are similar in stature to Earth horses, but are omnivorous, have three-toed hooves, are more intelligent than their Earth counterparts and are telepathic. Nighthorses will eat most things they can catch and kill, but failing that, grass and other vegetation.

When humans first arrived on the planet, the wild nighthorses were immediately drawn to them because of the humans' unconscious sendings that were rich in images and emotion. Once a nighthorse has experienced such sendings, it becomes addicted to them and will not leave humans alone. Sifting through these human emotions, a nighthorse will eventually select the human whose sendings it likes best and will adopt him or her as its companion. It will follow this person around, and if he or she is in a village or town, it will remain close to the walls and "call" by flooding the person with images of itself for days and weeks on end until either that person relents and goes to the horse, or withdraws to the centre of the town (if this is possible) where sendings from the Wild generally do not reach.

Those who answer a nighthorse's "call" become riders. Over a short period of time a relationship is formed that is mutually beneficial to both nighthorse and rider: the rider has transport and protection in the Wild (a nighthorse will protect its rider to the death), and the nighthorse receives the comforts of the rider camps in the villages, food, the rich emotional human sendings it craves, and "memory". On its own, a nighthorse does not have a good memory, but with a rider the ambient is filled with memories and the nighthorse can remember things!

The role of the nighthorse on Finisterre is pivotal: without them there would be no riders and without riders the human settlements would vanish.

The range of a typical Finisterre creature's sending is "a stone's throw", but a "rogue" can send much further. A rogue is an animal that is sick or injured and pollutes the ambient with images of its distress. A nighthorse can also go rogue when it loses its rider and sends out desperate longings for companionship. Rogue nighthorses are a serious problem to humans on Finisterre because they can send their distress over entire valleys and this often spreads to other creatures like a contagion, making their behaviour unpredictable and dangerous. Humans are not immune to rogue sendings either. Riders and truck drivers have gone over cliff edges because a rogue horse has tricked them into seeing things that are not there. Rogue nighthorses have to be tracked down and destroyed.

Riders
A rider does not pick a name for the nighthorse that has adopted him. All nighthorses have an image of how they see themselves and that is the image they will respond to. The rider quickly identifies that image and will always use it to communicate with the horse. Danny Fisher referred to his nighthorse as "Cloud" because it saw itself as a cloud drifting peacefully across the sky.

Riders and nighthorses communicate with each other, consciously or unconsciously, by sending images. In the novels Cherryh depicts such "sendings" as text enclosed in "< >". For example, <Cloud running> is an image sent out by Fisher to his nighthorse Cloud persuading him to run. A nighthorse anticipating a snow storm may send <cold, frosty breaths, feet crunching snow> to her rider, who in turn will try to calm her horse by sending an image of <melting drops on green needles, sun shining, road free and clear>.

But riders have to be wary of unconscious sendings. Almost all thoughts, emotions and anxieties a rider experiences are translated into images and sent to the ambient. Nighthorses are easily "spooked" and careless human emotion can be destructive. Riders therefore have to control their emotions in the presence of nighthorses. In addition, nighthorses generally cannot distinguish between past, present and future: they interpret and act on whatever they pickup literally. So a rider recalling an accident that happened last week will be seen by his horse as happening right now and will take evasive action. Riders quickly learn to quieten their minds so as to not excite their horses. Riders have to be particularly careful of rogue nighthorses. Wanting something intently, for example, a rider-shelter in a storm, can be picked by a rogue and sent back to you, making you believe, sometimes to your peril, that a shelter is right in front of you.

Riders don't have complete control over their nighthorses and often have to negotiate with them to get them to do what they want. Riders don't saddle or rein their nighthorses (they will not tolerate that). Instead, when riding, they will hold onto the horse's mane and, when necessary, clench their knees against the horse's sides.

In the Wild a rider is totally dependent on his or her nighthorse for protection against predators and scavengers. Riders quickly learn to trust their horse because the horse always knows the Wild better than even the most experienced rider. Very few animals will approach a nighthorse, and if they do it will broadcast <fierce nighthorse, angry, mayhem> as a warning before attacking. A rider's loyalties are therefore always to his horse first, then his partner, and then his partner's horse.

Riders, of course, cannot read each other's thoughts and emotions direct