ME Research Paper

Title: Mechanics of Materials and Interfaces: The Disturbed State Concept

Abstract:
7R2. Mechanics of Materials and Interfaces: The Disturbed State Concept. - CS Desai (Dept of Civil Eng and Eng Mech, Univ of Arizona, Tucson, AZ). CRC Press LLC, Boca Raton FL. 2001. 698 pp. ISBN 0-8493-0248-X. $99.95. Reviewed by SA Sherif (Dept of Mech Eng, Univ of Florida, 228 MEB, PO Box 116300, Gainesville, FL 32611-6300).The book contains 14 chapters and two appendices. Chapter 1 discusses introductory topics such as local and global states, engineering materials, and the disturbed state concept. Chapter 2 discusses preliminaries pertaining to the disturbed state concept. Chapter 3 introduces the reader to relative intact, fully adjusted states, and disturbance that results in damage or degradation. Chapter 4 provides formulations to the disturbed state concept including discussions to the classical continuous damage model and a derivation of the strain equa tions. The theory of elasticity in the disturbed state concept is the subject of Chapter 5, while Chapter 6 does the same for the theory of plasticity. In the latter chapter, topics such as the Mohr-Coulomb yield criterion and continuous yielding or hardening models are covered. Chapter 7 provides coverage for single-surface plasticity models including topics such as repetitive loading, elastoplastic equations, thermoplasticity, and drift correction procedures. Creep behavior as it applies to viscoelastic and viscoplastic models is the subject of Chapter 8, while the disturbed state concept for saturated and unsaturated materials is the theme of Chapter 9. A similar discussion of the disturbed state concept for structured and stiffened materials is carried out in Chapter 10 and for interfaces and joints in Chapter 11. Chapter 12 covers localization and instability at the microstructure level including discussion of topics such as microcrack interaction models, rate dependent models, the continuum damage model, and strain and energy-based models. Implementation of the disturbed state concept in computer procedures is the topic of Chapter 13. The book ends with a short conclusion Chapter 14. This chapter is followed by two appendices dealing with the critical state and self organized criticality concepts (Appendix I) and optimization and sensitivity analyses pertaining to the disturbed state concept (Appendix II). Throughout the book, several numerical examples are provided in key places in the different chapters to illustrate how a specific concept is to be applied. Numerous references are also provided at the end of each chapter. All in all, Mechanics of Materials and Interfaces: The Disturbed State Concept is very well written despite the difficulty of the subject matter at hand. The author is obviously very knowledgeable about the subject, and he very cleverly conveys his knowledge to the reader in a clear and methodical way. The book certainly serves as a valuable reference in the area of mechanics of materials and may even serve as a textbook for advanced graduate work if problems are added at the end of the different chapters. The objectives stated by the author in the “Preface” are served well by the coverage of the different topics. The book does not have any weaknesses that this reviewer can detect.