# Stability theory

In mathematics, stability theory addresses the stability of solutions of differential equations and of trajectories of dynamical systems under small perturbations of initial conditions.  The heat equation, for example, is a stable partial differential equation because small perturbations of initial data lead to small variations in temperature at a later time as a result of the maximum principle. In partial differential equations one may measure the distances between functions using Lp norms or the sup norm, while in differential geometry one may measure the distance between spaces using the Gromov–Hausdorff distance.

In dynamical systems, an orbit is called Lyapunov stable if the forward orbit of any point is in a small enough neighborhood or it stays in a small (but perhaps, larger) neighborhood. Various criteria have been developed to prove stability or instability of an orbit. Under favorable circumstances, the question may be reduced to a well-studied problem involving eigenvalues of matrices. A more general method involves Lyapunov functions. In practice, any one of a number of different stability criteria are applied.

Overview in dynamical systems 
Many parts of the qualitative theory of differential equations and dynamical systems deal with asymptotic properties of solutions and the trajectories—what happens with the system after a long period of time. The simplest kind of behavior is exhibited by equilibrium points, or fixed points, and by periodic orbits. If a particular orbit is well understood, it is natural to ask next whether a small change in the initial condition will lead to similar behavior. Stability theory addresses the following questions: Will a nearby orbit indefinitely stay close to a given orbit? Will it converge to the given orbit? In the former case, the orbit is called stable; in the latter case, it is called asymptotically stable and the given orbit is said to be attracting.

An equilibrium solution  to an autonomous system of first order ordinary differential equations is called:
 stable if for every (small) , there exists a  such that every solution  having initial conditions within distance  i.e.  of the equilibrium remains within distance  i.e.  for all .
 asymptotically stable if it is stable and, in addition, there exists  such that whenever  then as .

Stability means that the trajectories do not change too much under small perturbations. The opposite situation, where a nearby orbit is getting repelled from the given orbit, is also of interest. In general, perturbing the initial state in some directions results in the trajectory asymptotically approaching the given one and in other directions to the trajectory getting away from it. There may also be directions for which the behavior of the perturbed orbit is more complicated (neither converging nor escaping completely), and then stability theory does not give sufficient information about the dynamics.

One of the key ideas in stability theory is that the qualitative behavior of an orbit under perturbations can be analyzed using the linearization of the system near the orbit. In particular, at each equilibrium of a smooth dynamical system with an n-dimensional phase space, there is a certain n×n matrix A whose eigenvalues characterize the behavior of the nearby points (Hartman–Grobman theorem). More precisely, if all eigenvalues are negative real numbers or complex numbers with negative real parts then the point is a stable attracting fixed point, and the nearby points converge to it at an exponential rate, cf Lyapunov stability and exponential stability. If none of the eigenvalues are purely imaginary (or zero) then the attracting and repelling directions are related to the eigenspaces of the matrix A with eigenvalues whose real part is negative and, respectively, positive. Analogous statements are known for perturbations of more complicated orbits.

Stability of fixed points in 2D 

The paradigmatic case is the stability of the origin under the linear autonomous differential equation  where  and  is a 2-by-2 matrix.

We would sometimes perform change-of-basis by  for some invertible matrix , which gives . We say  is " in the new basis". Since  and , we can classify the stability of origin using  and , while freely using change-of-basis.

Classification of stability types 
If , then the rank of  is zero or one.

 If the rank is zero, then , and there is no flow. 
 If the rank is one, then  and  are both one-dimensional.
 If , then let  span , and let  be a preimage of , then in  basis, , and so the flow is a shearing along the  direction. In this case, .
 If , then let  span  and let  span , then in  basis,  for some nonzero real number . 
 If , then it is unstable, diverging at a rate of  from  along parallel translates of .
 If , then it is stable, converging at a rate of  to  along parallel translates of .

If , we first find the Jordan normal form of the matrix, to obtain a basis  in which  is one of three possible forms:

  where .
 If , then . The origin is a source, with integral curves of form 
 Similarly for . The origin is a sink.
 If  or , then , and the origin is a saddle point. with integral curves of form .
  where . This can be further simplified by a change-of-basis with , after which . We can explicitly solve for  with . The solution is  with . This case is called the "degenerate node".  The integral curves in this basis are central dilations of , plus the x-axis. 
 If , then the origin is an degenerate source. Otherwise it is a degenerate sink. 
 In both cases, 
  where . In this case, .
 If , then this is a spiral sink. In this case,  . The integral lines are logarithmic spirals. 
 If , then this is a spiral source. In this case,  . The integral lines are logarithmic spirals. 
 If , then this is a rotation ("neutral stability") at a rate of , moving neither towards nor away from origin. In this case,  . The integral lines are circles.

The summary is shown in the stability diagram on the right. In each case, except the case of , the values  allows unique classification of the type of flow.

For the special case of , there are two cases that cannot be distinguished by . In both cases,  has only one eigenvalue, with algebraic multiplicity 2.

 If the eigenvalue has a two-dimensional eigenspace (geometric multiplicity 2), then the system is a central node (sometimes called a "star", or "dicritical node") which is either a source (when ) or a sink (when ).
 If it has a one-dimensional eigenspace (geometric multiplicity 1), then the system is a degenerate node (if ) or a shearing flow (if ).

Area-preserving flow 
When , we have , so the flow is area-preserving. In this case, the type of flow is classified by .

 If , then it is a rotation ("neutral stability") around the origin.
 If , then it is a shearing flow.
 If , then the origin is a saddle point.

Stability of fixed points 
The simplest kind of an orbit is a fixed point, or an equilibrium. If a mechanical system is in a stable equilibrium state then a small push will result in a localized motion, for example, small oscillations as in the case of a pendulum. In a system with damping, a stable equilibrium state is moreover asymptotically stable. On the other hand, for an unstable equilibrium, such as a ball resting on a top of a hill, certain small pushes will result in a motion with a large amplitude that may or may not converge to the original state.

There are useful tests of stability for the case of a linear system. Stability of a nonlinear system can often be inferred from the stability of its linearization.

Maps 
Let  be a continuously differentiable function with a fixed point , . Consider the dynamical system obtained by iterating the function :

 

The fixed point  is stable if the absolute value of the derivative of  at  is strictly less than 1, and unstable if it is strictly greater than 1. This is because near the point , the function  has a linear approximation with slope :

 

Thus

 
 

which means that the derivative measures the rate at which the successive iterates approach the fixed point  or diverge from it. If the derivative at  is exactly 1 or −1, then more information is needed in order to decide stability.

There is an analogous criterion for a continuously differentiable map  with a fixed point , expressed in terms of its Jacobian matrix at , . If all eigenvalues of  are real or complex numbers with absolute value strictly less than 1 then  is a stable fixed point; if at least one of them has absolute value strictly greater than 1 then  is unstable. Just as for =1, the case of the largest absolute value being 1 needs to be investigated further — the Jacobian matrix test is inconclusive. The same criterion holds more generally for diffeomorphisms of a smooth manifold.

Linear autonomous systems 
The stability of fixed points of a system of constant coefficient linear differential equations of first order can be analyzed using the eigenvalues of the