# Robbinsville High School (New Jersey)

Robbinsville High School is a comprehensive community public high school serving students in ninth through twelfth grades from Robbinsville Township, in Mercer County, in the U.S. state of New Jersey, operating as the lone secondary school of the Robbinsville Public School District. The school is accredited by the New Jersey Department of Education.

As of the 2021–22 school year, the school had an enrollment of 1,085 students and 82.5 classroom teachers (on an FTE basis), for a student–teacher ratio of 13.2:1. There were 30 students (2.8% of enrollment) eligible for free lunch and 10 (0.9% of students) eligible for reduced-cost lunch.

Awards, recognition and rankings
The school was the 59th-ranked public high school in New Jersey out of 339 schools statewide in New Jersey Monthly magazine's September 2014 cover story on the state's "Top Public High Schools", using a new ranking methodology. The school had been ranked 110th in the state of 328 schools in 2012, after being ranked 109th in 2010 out of 322 schools listed. Schooldigger.com ranked the school 43rd out of 389 public high schools statewide in its 2012 rankings, which was based on the combined percentage of students classified as proficient or above proficient on the mathematics (94.4%) and language arts literacy (98.1%) components of the High School Proficiency Assessment (HSPA).

The New Jersey State Interscholastic Athletic Association recognized Robbinsville High School as the Group I winner of the Seventh Annual ShopRite Cup in 2009–10, based on the overall performances of the school's athletic teams which included first-place finishes in boys' cross country and girls' soccer, second place in girls' cross country, third-place finishes in indoor track & field, baseball (tie) and wrestling (tie), along with finishing fourth in both girls' indoor relays and girls' outdoor track and field, with bonus points awarded for not having any disqualifications during the three sports seasons.

History and facilities
There was a great struggle in the community to get the high school approved, and when it was approved, the vote was extremely close, with a referendum passing in 2001 by a 51-49% margin to approve the construction of a $50 million high school building, while a separate ballot for a pool price at $4.4 million was rejected. The school was first opened in 2004 as a wing in the middle school to house ninth graders. The plan was to start with only freshmen and each year fill in an additional grade. In 2005, the new high school building opened.

By the 2006–07 school year, only students in 12th grade from Robbinsville Township were attending Lawrence High School in Lawrence Township, as part of the final year of a sending/receiving relationship with the Lawrence Township Public Schools. With the start of the 2007–08 school year, the sending relationship had ended, and Robbinsville High School began to serve all of Robbinsville Township's high school students on site. The school graduated its first class of 150 students in June 2008.

The school features a large common area with an atrium to serve as a cafeteria as well as several other purposes, an attached music wing, a central hallway which connects the commons area to the four main wings, the kitchen, the black box theater, the 1,000-seat auditorium with a  opera pit, the gymnasium wing (including a main gym, auxiliary gym, the weight room, locker rooms, and the trainer's office), and the main office as well as administrators offices on the first floor and contains much technology including a recording studio.  Outside, there is a rubberized turf football field along with a track, an aerial obstacle course, and numerous sports fields for all seasons.

Curriculum
Robbinsville High School offers a diverse curriculum to its students covering an art department, business department, English/ language arts department, family and consumer science department, health department, mathematics department, music and performing arts department, science department, social studies department, technology department, and world languages department. Students may also take classes at nearby colleges, typically Mercer County Community College.

Advanced Placement
Robbinsville High School offers advanced placement college credit in the following courses:
Advanced Placement Art History
Advanced Placement Biology
Advanced Placement Calculus
Advanced Placement Chemistry
Advanced Placement Computer Science
Advanced Placement French Language
Advanced Placement English Language and Composition
Advanced Placement English Literature and Composition
Advanced Placement Music Theory
Advanced Placement Psychology
Advanced Placement Physics 1
Advanced Placement Physics 2
Advanced Placement Spanish Language
Advanced Placement Statistics
Advanced Placement United States History
Advanced Placement World History

Extracurricular activities
Extracurricular activities and clubs offered at the high school include:
Astronomy Club
Trivia Club
Chinese Club
The RHS Choir
Dance Team
Debate Team
Drama Club
Friends of Rachel Club
Future Business Leaders of America (FBLA)
Future Educators of America
Gender-Sexuality Alliance Club
Improv Club
Interact Club
Language Honor Society
Literary Magazine 
Marching Band (including Color Guard)
Math Club
Model U.N.
Multicultural Club
Mock Trial
National Honor Society
Robotics Team
Science Olympiad
Ski Club
Spanish Club
Students Against Destructive Decisions (SADD)
Red Cross Club
RHS Executive Council (Student Body Government)
Class Councils (Class Governments)
Technology Student Association
Tri-M Music Honor Society

Debate team
The debate team finished an undefeated season in 2010 and was named Colonial Valley Conference champions. In 2011 the debate team renewed their title as champions.

Raven Regiment
The regiment received the "Best Visuals" award at the NJ State Marching Band Competition in 2009, and won 4th out of 23 bands at the Northern states Marching Band Competition in 2010. In their 2011 season, the Regiment took 7th out of 21 at Nationals in Allentown, Pennsylvania. The band also moved up from a 1A class to a 2A class band.

In 2012, the Raven Regiment was the only New Jersey band invited to perform at the 2nd Annual Pearl Harbor Day Parade in Honolulu, Hawai'i.

In 2014, the band received the award for "Best Color Guard" at the USBands 2A state championships. They later placed 5th out of 18 bands at the National Championships.

The Raven Regiment moved up from a 2A to a 3A class band in 2015.

In 2018, the Raven Regiment won 1st place out of 9 bands at the USBands New Jersey State Championships (III A) in Glassboro, NJ, on October 28. The following week, the Raven Regiment placed 2nd out of 16 bands at the USBands A Class National Championships (III) in Allentown, PA, on November 4.

In 2022, the Raven Regiment moved up from a 3A to a 4A class band.

Robotics
With the assistance of a NASA 2008 rookie grant, Nemesis-FIRST Robotics Competition team 2590 won the "Rookie All Star," "Highest Scoring Rookie," and "Finalist" awards, and received the Entrepreneurship Award in 2009, 2012 and the 2012 Chairman's Award at the Lenape District. Nemesis won the 2012 Montreal Regional and the Lenape District and has placed in the top 10 at the New Jersey, Boston & Washington DC Regionals and awarded the 2010 "Industrial Design" Award and 2011, 2012 "NJ Best Website Award" and were semifinalists at the World Championship in St. Louis. As a Project Lead the Way High School, qualified students earn three college credits for successful completion of projects-based pre-engineering classes that teach fundamental problem-solving and critical-thinking skills. In 2011, RHS gained national recognition as an Exemplary Career and Technical Education (CTE) program by the National Association of State Directors of CTE for the implementation of PLTW and the FIRST Robotics Team.

In 2013 Nemesis won the Chairman's Award and also ranked first in the Mid-Atlantic. They finished the season as quarter-finalists in the Archimedes Division of the FIRST World Championship. In 2014 they went further to win first place in the Archimedes Division and then became Einstein Field semifinalists.

Theatre department
During autumn, a dramatic play is performed. In the spring, the school performs a musical, and then a series of acts named the "Senior One Acts" where the seniors direct one-act plays with other students as performers. Students from the theatre department have also participated in a competition hosted by the Speech and Theatre Association of New Jersey, and the New Jersey State Thespian Festival. Other activities include an improvisation club as well as a drama club, and a competition of Shakespearean acts in the spring.

The Theatre Department has given many performances including:
And Never Been Kissed (Fall 2004), Once Upon A Mattress (Spring 2005), 
A Midsummer Night's Dream (Fall 2005), Grease (Spring 2006)
Pride and Prejudice (Fall 2006), Kis