[A Brief History of Mathematics — Cajori — Gutenberg #9296]

to confine me, and keep me out of your presence, and out of the presence of every one who used to love me [this, my dear Miss Howe, is threatened]. If this be effected; if it be put out of my power to plead my own cause, and to appeal to you, and to my uncle Harlowe, of whom only I have hope; then will every ear be opened against me, and every tale encouraged--It is, therefore, my humble request, that, added to the disgraceful prohibitions I now suffer under, you will not, if you can help it, give way to my being denied your ear. Your listening Hannah has given you this intelligence, as she does many others. My Hannah, Madam, listens not--My Hannah-- No more in Hannah's behalf--Hannah is known to make mischief--Hannah is known--But no more of that bold intermeddler--'Tis true your father threatened to confine you to your chamber, if you complied not, in order the more assuredly to deprive you of the opportunity of corresponding with those who harden your heart against his will. He bid me tell you so, when he went out, if I found you refractory. But I was loth to deliver so harsh a declaration; being still in hope that you would come down to us in a compliant temper. Hannah has overheard this, I suppose; and has told you of it; as also, that he declared he would break your heart, rather than you should break his. And I now assure you, that you will be confined, and prohibited making teasing appeals to any of us: and we shall see who is to submit, you to us, or every body to you. Again I offered to clear Hannah, and to lay the latter part of the intelligence to my sister's echo, Betty Barnes, who had boasted of it to another servant: but I was again bid to be silent on that head. I should soon find, my mother was pleased to say, that others could be as determined as I was obstinate: and once for all would add, that since she saw that I built upon her indulgence, and was indifferent about involving her in contentions with my father, she would now assure me, that she was as much determined against Mr. Lovelace, and for Mr. Solmes and the family schemes, as any body; and would not refuse her consent to any measures that should be thought necessary to reduce a stubborn child to her duty. I was ready to sink. She was so good as to lend me her arm to support me. And this, said I, is all I have to hope for from my Mamma? It is. But, Clary, this one further opportunity I give you--Go in again to Mr. Solmes, and behave discreetly to him; and let your father find you together, upon civil terms at least. My feet moved [of themselves, I think] farther from the parlour where he was, and towards the stairs; and there I stopped and paused. If, proceeded she, you are determined to stand in defiance of us all--then indeed you may go up to your chamber (as you are ready to do)--And God help you! God help me, indeed! for I cannot give hope of what I cannot intend--But let me have your prayers, my dear Mamma!--Those shall have mine, who have brought me into all this distress. I was moving to go up-- And will you go up, Clary? I turned my face to her: my officious tears would needs plead for me: I could not just then speak, and stood still. Good girl, distress me not thus!--Dear, good girl, do not thus distress me! holding out her hand; but standing still likewise. What can I do, Madam?--What can I do? Go in again, my child--Go in again, my dear child!--repeated she; and let your father find you together. What, Madam, to give him hope?--To give hope to Mr. Solmes? Obstinate, perverse, undutiful Clarissa! with a rejecting hand, and angry aspect; then take your own way, and go up!--But stir not down again, I charge you, without leave, or till your father's pleasure be known concerning you. She flung away from me with high indignation: and I went up with a very heavy heart; and feet as slow as my heart was heavy. *** My father is come home, and my brother with him. Late as it is, they are all shut up together. Not a door opens; not a soul stirs. Hannah, as she moves up and down, is shunned as a person infected. *** The angry assembly is broken up. My two uncles and my aunt Hervey are sent for, it seems, to be here in the morning to breakfast. I shall then, I suppose, know my doom. 'Tis past eleven, and I am ordered not to go to bed. TWELVE O'CLOCK. This moment the keys of every thing are taken from me. It was proposed to send for me down: but my father said, he could not bear to look upon me.--Strange alteration in a few weeks!--Shorey was the messenger. The tears stood in her eyes when she delivered her message. You, my dear, are happy--May you always be so--and then I can never be wholly miserable. Adieu, my beloved friend! CL. HARLOWE. LETTER XXII MISS CLARISSA HARLOWE, TO MISS HOWE SUNDAY MORNING, MARCH 5. Hannah has just brought me from the private place in the garden-wall, a letter from Mr. Lovelace, deposited last night, signed also by Lord M. He tells me in it, 'That Mr. Solmes makes it his boast, that he is to be married in a few days to one of the shyest women in England: that my brother explains his meaning: This shy creature, he says, is me; and he assures every one, that his younger sister is very soon to be Mr. Solmes's wife. He tells me of the patterns bespoken which my mother mentioned to me.' Not one thing escapes him that is done or said in this house. 'My sister, he says, reports the same things; and that with such particular aggravations of insult upon him, that he cannot but be extremely piqued, as well at the manner, as from the occasion; and expresses himself with great violence upon it. 'He knows not, he says, what my relations' inducements can be to prefer such a man as Solmes to him. If advantageous settlements be the motive, Solmes shall not offer what he will refuse to comply with. 'As to his estate and family; the first cannot be excepted against: and for the second, he will not disgrace himself by a comparison so odious. He appeals to Lord M. for the regularity of his life and manners ever since he has made his addresses to me, or had hope of my favour.' I suppose he would have his Lordship's signing to this letter to be taken as a voucher for him. 'He desires my leave (in company with my Lord), in a pacific manner, to attend my father and uncles, in order to make proposals that must be accepted, if they will see him, and hear what they are: and tells me, that he will submit to any measures that I shall prescribe, in order to bring about a reconciliation.' He presumes to be very earnest with me, 'to give him a private meeting some night, in my father's garden, attended by whom I please.' Really, my dear, were you to see his letter, you would think I had given him great encouragement, and that I am in direct treaty with him; or that he is sure that my friends will drive me into a foreign protection; for he has the boldness to offer, in my Lord's name, an asylum to me, should I be tyrannically treated in Solmes's behalf. I suppose it is the way of this sex to endeavour to entangle the thoughtless of ours by bold supposals and offers, in hopes that we shall be too complaisant or bashful to quarrel with them; and, if not checked, to reckon upon our silence, as assents voluntarily given, or concessions made in their favour. There are other particulars in this letter which I ought to mention to you: but I will take an opportunity to send you the letter itself, or a copy of it. For my own part, I am very uneasy to think how I have been drawn on one hand, and driven on the other, into a clandestine, in short, into a mere loverlike correspondence, which my heart condemns. It is easy to see, if I do not break it off, that Mr. Lovelace's advantages, by reason of my unhappy situation, will every day increase, and I shall be more and more entangled. Yet if I do put an end to it, without making it a condition of being freed from Mr. Solmes's address--May I, my dear, is it best to continue it a little longer, in order to extricate myself out of the other difficulty, by giving up all thoughts of Mr. Lovelace?--Whose advice can I now ask but yours. All my relations are met. They are at breakfast together. Mr. Solmes is expected. I am excessively uneasy. I must lay down my pen. *** They are all going to church together. Grievously disordered they appear to be, as Hannah tells me. She believes something is resolved upon. SUNDAY NOON. What a cruel thing is suspense!--I will ask leave to go to church this afternoon. I expect to be denied. But, if I do not ask, they may allege, that my not going is owing to myself. *** I desired to speak with Shorey. Shorey came. I directed her to carry to my mother my request for permission to go to church this afternoon. What think you was the return? Tell her, that she must direct herself to her brother for any favour she has to ask.--So, my dear, I am to be delivered up to my brother! I was resolved, however, to ask of him this favour. Accordingly, when they sent me up my solitary dinner, I gave the messenger a billet, in which I made it my humble request through him to my father, to be permitted to go to church this afternoon. This was the contemptuous answer: 'Tell her, that her request will be taken into consideration to-morrow.' Patience will be the fittest return I can make to such an insult. But this method will not do with me; indeed it will not! And yet it is but the beginning, I suppose, of what I am to expect from my brother, now I am delivered up to him. On recollection, I thought it best to renew my request. I did. The