# Uniqueness theorem for Poisson's equation

The uniqueness theorem for Poisson's equation states that, for a large class of boundary conditions, the equation may have many solutions, but the gradient of every solution is the same. In the case of electrostatics, this means that there is a unique electric field derived from a potential function satisfying Poisson's equation under the boundary conditions.


Proof
The general expression for Poisson's equation in electrostatics is

where  is the electric potential and  is the charge distribution over some region   with boundary surface  .

The uniqueness of the solution can be proven for a large class of boundary conditions as follows.

Suppose that we claim to have two solutions of Poisson's equation. Let us call these two solutions  and . Then

 and

It follows that  is a solution of Laplace's equation, which is a special case of Poisson's equation that equals to . Subtracting the two solutions above gives 

By applying the vector differential identity we know that

However, from () we also know that throughout the region   Consequently, the second term goes to zero and we find that

By taking the volume integral over the region , we find that

By applying the divergence theorem, we rewrite the expression above as

We now sequentially consider three distinct boundary conditions: a Dirichlet boundary condition, a Neumann boundary condition, and a mixed boundary condition.

First, we consider the case where Dirichlet boundary conditions are specified as  on the boundary of the region. If the Dirichlet boundary condition is satisfied on  by both solutions (i.e., if  on the boundary), then the left-hand side of () is zero. Consequently, we find that

Since this is the volume integral of a positive quantity (due to the squared term), we must have  at all points. Further, because the gradient of  is everywhere zero and  is zero on the boundary,  must be zero throughout the whole region. Finally, since   throughout the whole region, and since  throughout the whole region, therefore  throughout the whole region. This completes the proof that there is the unique solution of Poisson's equation with a Dirichlet boundary condition.

Second, we consider the case where Neumann boundary conditions are specified as  on the boundary of the region.  If the Neumann boundary condition is satisfied on  by both solutions, then the left-hand side of () is  zero again. Consequently, as before, we find that

As before, since this is the volume integral of a positive quantity, we must have  at all points. Further, because the gradient of  is everywhere zero within the volume , and because the gradient of  is everywhere zero on the boundary , therefore  must be constant---but not necessarily zero---throughout the whole region. Finally, since  throughout the whole region, and since  throughout the whole region, therefore  throughout the whole region. This completes the proof that there is the unique solution up to an additive constant of Poisson's equation with a Neumann boundary condition.

Mixed boundary conditions could be given as long as either the gradient or the potential is specified at each point of the boundary. Boundary conditions at infinity also hold. This results from the fact that the surface integral in () still vanishes at large distances because the integrand decays faster than the surface area grows.

See also
Poisson's equation
Gauss's law
Coulomb's law
Method of images
Green's function
Uniqueness theorem
Spherical harmonics

References

Electrostatics
Vector calculus
Uniqueness theorems
Theorems in calculus