# NSW Premier Cricket

NSW Premier Cricket (formerly known as Sydney Grade Cricket) is a cricket competition played in Sydney, Australia. The competition began in 1893 when a number of clubs that had been playing for many years on an ad hoc basis voted to create a formal competition structure.

The NSW Premier Cricket competition is generally played on Saturdays and begins in mid-September and continues until the grand final is played on the first weekend of April.  Spectators are generally few and far between at matches, mostly family members, partners or club members.  The exception to this is at T20 matches which can attract crowds into the hundreds and occasionally the low thousands. Players for the NSW team are selected from the first-grade competition.  While modern day cricketers have few breaks outside the international calendar, when they do NSW players often return to play in the first-grade competition.

History

This competition has grown substantially since its formation and by 1985 the Sydney Grade Cricket Competition encompassed 20 clubs. Since the 1940s there had been a number of club mergers (Mosman with Middle Harbour, Petersham with Marrickville and Glebe with South Sydney followed in 1965 by the forced merger of Paddington with Glebe-South Sydney to form Sydney District CC). In 1965 Sutherland joined the competition, followed by Nepean (now Penrith) and University of NSW in 1973. In 1985 Sydney District CC left the competition but 3 new clubs from the outer suburbs of Sydney joined - Fairfield, Campbelltown and Hawkesbury. In the late 1990s there was a push to remove some inner-city clubs from the competition, but although no clubs were forced out, in 2001 Randwick and Petersham-Marrickville (itself the product of a merger in 1951) decided to merge and formed the Randwick Petersham club. Some clubs were renamed to reflect their wider representation (Waverley renamed as Eastern Suburbs, Fairfield becoming Fairfield-Liverpool and Campbelltown becoming Campbelltown-Camden). Finally in 2002 Blacktown were promoted from the second-tier shires competition to bring the number of clubs back up to 20. Each of the 20 clubs fields a side in each of the five senior grades as well as a side in the Poidevin-Gray Shield and AW Green Shield junior competitions.

In recent times some clubs have started broadcasting scorecards in real-time on the Cricket Australia website.  Some clubs also have detailed video and photographs each weekend.  Most but not all clubs actively update their website and have information across a variety of social media platforms.

Sydney grade cricket also has a proud history of welcoming budding, current or former first-class and Test cricketers from around the world.  Players are primarily sourced from England's county competition.  In 2015/16, there were over 10 players in the competition plying their trade in the first-grade competition.  In the late 1990s and early 2000s Kevin Pietersen and Andrew Strauss amongst others played seasons in Sydney.  Such is the strength of the competition that some well-known players have been known to play multiple matches in second grade.

To address shortcomings in players making the transition from first-grade to State cricket, two seasons ago a different type of ball was introduced into the first-grade competition.  This ball is the same used by state players but had not previously been used due to its cost (A$150 each).  While the ball is still a four-piece ball, its seam is less pronounced and more difficult to swing.  Bowlers, in particular fast bowlers, have had to work much harder at getting wickets.  Since its introduction scores within the competition have increased.  There have been higher team and individual scores (400+ scores by teams are not the rare occurrence they once were).

In the 2016/17 season, the competition changed its name to NSW Premier Cricket. The name change was part of a Cricket Australia initiative to standardise the naming of the elite men's cricket competition within each state's capital city.

NSW Premier Cricket Clubs

Current Clubs
Clubs in the 2023/24 season of NSW Premier Cricket are:
  Bankstown District Cricket ClubNicknamed the Bulldogs, the club play at Bankstown Oval, one of the better first grade grounds, having hosted first class matches and women's internationals. The club has won 7 first grade premierships, the first in 1958/59 under the captaincy of Ron Briggs, and the most recent in 2015/16. Bankstown have a proud history and are among the strongest clubs.  Notable Bankstown players have included all four Waugh brothers (Steve, Mark, Dean and Danny), Jeff Thomson, Len Pascoe, Corey Richards, Mark Stoneman and Aaron Bird.
  Blacktown District Cricket ClubNicknamed the Warriors, Blacktown participated in the Sydney Shires Competition before entering the Sydney Grade competition in 2002/03. Blacktown is yet to taste success across any grade but has shown steady improvement.  Its catchment area in the North West of Sydney is among the fastest growing regions in Australia.  Their two lower-grade home grounds at Whalan are among the largest in the competition, with it reported to be larger in size than the Sydney Cricket Ground.  In recent years games have been interrupted by deadly snakes crossing into the field.  Former players include Australian off spinner Gavin Robertson, NSW paceman Don Nash and West Indian bowler Corey Collymore.  
  Campbelltown-Camden District Cricket ClubNicknamed the Ghosts, the club was formed in 1985 and won its first title (the first grade limited overs crown) in 1986/87. Since then, it has won many lower grade titles.  Like Blacktown, its local area is growing rapidly which has translated into a wealth of talent.  Past players of note include Ian Davis, Brett & Shane Lee, Michael Bevan, Corey Richards, Monty Panesar, Mark Stoneman and Ollie Pope.
  Eastern Suburbs District Cricket ClubFounded as the Waverley Cricket Club in 1894, it changed its name in 1996 to reflect a broader regional basis. Easts have won 8 first grade premierships, the most recent being in 2003/04. Nineteen Australian players have played for the red, white and blue of the Dolphins, including the Gregory family (Syd, Jack), Frank Iredale, Alan Kippax, Arthur Mailey, Jack Fingleton, Greg Matthews, Kepler Wessels. Current players include Brad Haddin, Nathan Bracken, Peter Nevill, Nic Maddinson and David Warner. Notable overseas players include Tony Greig, Geoff Boycott and Tim Murtagh.
  Fairfield-Liverpool Cricket ClubNicknamed the Lions and have won 2 first grade premierships since joining the Sydney Grade competition in 1985, most recently in 2005/06. Rosedale Oval, its first/second grade ground, is the largest first grade ground in Sydney.  As such, the frequency of boundaries here is notably lower which means much more running for batsmen.  The most notable former players are former Australian bowler Doug Bollinger and former NSW players Grant Lambert and Ben Rohrer. Pat Richards, a rugby league footballer for Parramatta Eels, Wests Tigers and Wigan Warriors is also a former player.
  Gordon District Cricket ClubNicknamed the Stags were founded in 1905 and have won 6 first grade premierships since then, most recently in 1990/91. They share their home ground of Chatswood Oval with Gordon rugby club.  Chatswood Oval is notable for being surrounded by high-rise buildings and is next to major train line. Unfortunately for the fielding team, the ball is often dispatched in the vicinity of the train line and proves rather difficult to retrieve.  Nineteen players have gone on to represent Australia, including Victor Trumper, Charlie Macartney, Bert Oldfield, Brian Taber, Ian Davis, Adam Gilchrist and Phil Emery.
  Hawkesbury Cricket ClubNicknamed the Hawks and joined the Sydney Grade competition in 1985. Their home grounds at the Bensons Lane Complex at Richmond, which includes 3 grade grounds, are among the best wickets in the Sydney Premier competition but are amongst the most oppressive grounds due to the heat (it is around 50 km inland), flies and smell (paddocks surround the ground). For teams based close to the CBD, the travel to Hawkesbury often takes close to two hours each way.  The main oval, Owen Earle Oval, has recently been upgraded with a new picket fence. Notable players: Stephen O'Keefe (NSW & Aust), Peter Forrest (NSW, QLD & Aust), John Hastings (Vic & Aust), Scott Henry (NSW & Qld), Anthony Kershler (NSW), and Arjun Nair (NSW). Hawkesbury also produce regular members of NSW under-17 and 19 teams.
  Manly Warringah District Cricket Club - Founded in 1878, the Waratahs are a foundation club in the Sydney grade competition. The Waratahs have won the first grade premiership 5 times, most recently in 2014/15 and have won the club championship title a number of times in the last 15 years. Recent players include NSW captain Stephen O'Keefe, Alvin Kallicharran, Stuart Clark, Michael Bevan, Chris Green and Morne Morkel.  Manly Oval is on