# World Electric Vehicle Association

The World Electric Vehicle Association (WEVA) is an organization that promotes electric vehicles.

Member associations 

It is composed of:
 The Electric Drive Transportation Association (EDTA)
 The Electric Vehicle Association of Asia Pacific (EVAAP)
 The European Association for Battery, Hybrid and Fuel Cell Electric Vehicles (AVERE)

EDTA 
The Electric Drive Transportation Association (EDTA) is the American branch, based in Washington, D.C.

Founded in 1989, the EDTA is a US industry association dedicated to the promotion of electric drive EDTA supports the sustainable commercialization of all electric drive transportation technologies by providing in-depth information, education, industry networking, public policy advocacy and international conferences and exhibitions.

EVAAP 
Electric Vehicle Association of Asia Pacific (EVAAP) is an International organization which promotes the use of electric vehicles in the Asia and the Pacific and also representative to the World Electric Vehicle Association (WEVA) organizing the International Electric Vehicle Symposium (EVS) rotationally with AVERE and EDTA.

AVERE 
The European Association for Battery, Hybrid and Fuel Cell Electric Vehicles (AVERE) was founded in 1978 and is based in Brussels. It is a European network of users, NGO's, associations, interest groups, etc. Its main objective is promoting the use of battery, hybrid and fuel cell electric vehicles (individually and in fleets) for priority uses in order to achieve a greener mobility for cities and countries.

Structure

Activities

World Electric Vehicle Journal (WEVJ) 
WEVA publishes an international scientific journal called the World Electric Vehicle Journal (). The World Electric Vehicle Journal is a peer-reviewed international scientific journal that covers all studies related to battery, hybrid and fuel cell electric vehicles comprehensively. It publishes selected contributions from the EVS Symposia after an additional review process.

See also 
 CalCars
 Electric vehicle
 Japan Automobile Research Institute (JARI)
 Repower America

References

External links 
 WEVA official site

International climate change organizations
Non-profit organizations based in California
Palo Alto, California
Plug-in hybrid vehicles
Environmental organizations based in California
Electric vehicle organizations
Organizations established in 1990