# Lumberjack 100

The Lumberjack 100 is an ultra-endurance mountain bike race held the 3rd Saturday in June at Michigan's Big M Cross Country Ski and Mountain Bike Trail in the Manistee National Forest.  The race is a 100-mile mountain bike marathon and is part of the National Ultra Endurance Series.  The race course consists of three 33.33 mile laps in the Udell Hills area and crosses the North Country National Scenic Trail twice per lap. The course contains over 8,000 feet of climbing and is 80%  single track. Due to venue limitations, only 450 racers are allowed to participate.

Results
Summary Results Table

Details

2016
In the 2016 edition of the race, Kaitlyn Patterson (Team OAM) had a thirty-second lead after the first lap; by the final lap Patterson had extended the lead to more than 20 minutes over runner up Mari Chandler (Team Adventure). In the men's event, Brian Schworm (Think Green - VO2) finished four minutes ahead of runner up Alex Vanias (Team OAM), and five minutes ahead of Bradley White (UnitedHealthcare Pro Cycling). 413 racers started the event.

2015
450 racers lined up for the 2015 edition of the Founders Lumberjack 100, including two-time Olympian Tinker Juarez. The race marked the fifth event in the NUE Series. In unseasonably cold conditions, Brian Schworm (Green's Toyota) and Mari Chandler (Dart Nuun / Tecnu Racing) won the men's and women's open races, respectively.

2014
2014 marked the 10th anniversary of the Lumberjack 100. To mark the occasion, the direction of the race course was reversed. The Women's Open winner Danielle Musto led from the start line, whereas the Men's Open winner, Christian Tanguy, broke away from the competition eight miles before the finish line.

2013
Following a slow spring thaw, the 2013 event featured a dry, sandy course and temperature highs in the mid-70s (degrees F). The men's open race was decided in a sprint between the three podium winners, Barry Wicks, Michael Simonson, and Christian Tanguy. In contrast, over half an hour separated the women's first and second place contenders, Alice Pennington and Danielle Musto.

2012
The 2012 edition of Lumberjack 100 was a sold-out event held under unusually hot, dry, and sandy conditions. Barry Wicks and Amanda Carey  won the Men's and Women's Open divisions.

2011
In 2011, a full field contended, ending with the winners finishing in record times; Women's Open winner, Amanda Carey; Men's Open winner, Christian Tanguy.

2010
The 2010 Founders Lumberjack 100 is in the books. No crazy storms or heat to write about this year. The week leading up to the race included a few thunderstorms and that made for some great soil conditions this year. In this edition of the race, the course was changed from four 25-mile laps to three 33-mile laps, creating a number of challenges with  2-way traffic. Compared to previous years, a larger percentage of participants completed the event. Many racers commented that the 3 lap race was mentally easier, but physically harder due to the use of some killer single track climbs never used in the race before.

2009

Jeff Schalk (Trek) and Betsy Shogren claimed wins at this year's running of The Lumberjack 100 in Wellston, Michigan. The contest to capture the coveted Hatchet Trophies on the third stop of this year's NUE Series proved to be very different for the two. While Shogren rode in the lead from start to finish, Schalk was forced to do battle up to the final mile.

Race favorites, Betsy Shogren (Cannondale), Karen Potter (mtbmind.com) and Danielle Musto (Kenda/Tomac/Hayes) jumped ahead of the women's field early on and established themselves in that order and only minutes apart after the first 25-mile lap. The top three women's positions did not change for the remainder of the race. Shogren claimed victory with a time of 8:20, a new women's course record, while Potter chased close behind to finish in 8:26. Danielle Musto, her knee bloodied from a near race ending crash on lap 2 was able to finish in third place 8:46.
In the men's open class Jeff Schalk (Trek), Chris Eatough (Trek), Mike Simonson (Gary Fischer 29er) and Christian Tanguy (Team Fraser) formed a lead group in the first 10 miles and pulled well away from the rest of the field. With Schalk at the front the four stayed together through 50 miles until rising temperature, humidity and Schalk's blistering pace setting took their toll on Simonson, who lost contact with the group. Little changed for the remaining three over the next 25 miles. Going into the final lap Eatough was the next to lose contact with Schalk and Tanguy. With the finish line less than a lap away and the selection down to just two, Tanguy attacked Schalk repeatedly, pulling well ahead of the Trek rider at one point. But in the end it was Schalk who had the better legs, attacking Tanguy in the last mile and claiming a hard-fought victory with a time of 6:48:06. Tanguy finished close behind at 6:48:36. Rounding out the top three was Eatough, who stopped the clock at 6:57. Simonson would cross the line for fourth at 7:17, followed close behind by Derek Graham (Bissel). 
The single speed class was dominated from start to finish by Gerry Pflug (Speedgoat/Spk/Salsa). Gerry road to a new Lumberjack single speed record (7:17:33) and also managed to cross the line only seconds behind Mike Simonson for fifth place overall. Rounding out the men's single speed podium was Roger Masse (Trek) at 7:56 and Joe Kedrowski (Founders Ales) at 8:04.

Records set in each class!
Men's 
·	1st Place- Jeff Schalk- 6:48:06
·	2nd Place- Christian Tanguy- 6:48:36
·	3rd Place- Chris Eatough- 6:57:18
Women's

·	1st Place- Betsy Shogren- 8:20:11
·	2nd Place- Karen Potter- 8:26:05
·	3rd Place- Danielle Musto- 8:46:32
Master's
·	1st Place- Jack Kline- 8:28:01
·	2nd Place- David Kelnberger- 8:49:10
·	3rd Place- Tim Curtis- 8:52:58
Single Speed
·	1st Place- Gerry Pflug- 7:17:33
·	2nd Place- Roger Masse- 7:56:54
·	3rd Place- Joe Kedrowski- 8:04:02

2008

Not to be outdone by the first two rain soaked races in the National Ultra Endurance (NUE) series, stop number three at the Lumberjack 100 in Michigan saw 11 inches of rain and 80 mph winds the night before the race in the worst storm the area had seen in 30 years. The winds and rain forced a marathon clean-up of debris and trees from the trails, but by the time Saturday morning broke all that was left were a few welcome log hops and three muddy sections that grew as the 250 racers passed through them. Fortunately due to the nature of the mostly sandy course, the majority of the trail was well drained and the amount of standing water was limited to only those three short, but treacherous sections.
Undeterred by the conditions, Jeff Schalk (Trek/VW) maintained his control over the series lead with another close win by only a minute over Oregonian, Evan Plews (Scott/ Capitol Subaru). So far each of Schalk's three wins in the series have been by two minutes or less after 100 miles of racing. A group of eight racers made the early separation through most of the first 25-mile lap, but an attack from Harlan Price (IFRacing.org/ Industry Nine) on the first eight-mile section of the second lap whittled the group down to five racers; Schalk, Plews, Chris Eatough (Trek/VW), Christian Tanguy (American Cycle and Fitness) and Price. 
Price repeated the same attack on lap three and thinned the group down to himself, Schalk and Plews, but his early efforts took their toll towards the end of the lap and Plews and Schalk moved up the road without the Independent Fabrication rider. 
Schalk led most of the fourth lap and found all of his attacks answered by a tenacious Plews, who was still contending despite a flat early in lap two. It wasn't until about five miles to go that Schalk was able to get a gap and hold it to the finish despite some cramping. Filling the last two positions in the top five were Eatough in fourth and Tanguy in fifth. 
In the women's field Cheryl Sornson (Trek/VW) took home her first win of the NUE series with a full day riding in front of the rest of her competitors. Sornson was off the front from the beginning using her improved 2008 form to stay away on course that favored a rider capable of staying on the gas and riding smart lines through the narrow and curvaceous singletrack. Her win put her in the overall lead for the series. Seventeen minutes back from the Trek/VW rider was Karen Potter (MTB-Mind.com) from Massachusetts and rolling across the line in third was last year's winner and local Daniel Musto of the Kenda-Titus-Hayes team.
The singlespeed division saw a new face on the top of the podium. Ronald Sanborn (McLain Cycle and Fitness) found himself in the fortunate position of first by only a minute over second place John (Fuzzy) Myline (Sho-Air, rock and Road/ Niner) with a time of 7:57:19. Third position was occupied by Nate Versluis (Founders Ale / Alger Racing) and not far behind was the series singlespeed leader Dejay Birtch (Niner Bikes).

Men's
1st place