# Cap product

In algebraic topology the cap product is a method of adjoining a chain of degree p with a cochain of degree q, such that q ≤ p, to form a composite chain of degree p − q.   It was introduced by Eduard Čech in 1936, and independently by Hassler Whitney in 1938.

Definition
Let X be a topological space and R a coefficient ring. The cap product is a bilinear map on singular homology and cohomology

defined by contracting a singular chain  with a singular cochain  by the formula:

Here, the notation  indicates the restriction of the simplicial map  to its face spanned by the vectors of the base, see Simplex.

Interpretation
In analogy with the interpretation of the cup product in terms of the Künneth formula, we can explain the existence of the cap product in the following way. Using CW approximation we may assume that  is a CW-complex and  (and ) is the complex of its cellular chains (or cochains, respectively). Consider then the composition  

where we are taking tensor products of chain complexes,  is the diagonal map which induces the map

on the chain complex, and  is the evaluation map (always 0 except for ).

This composition then passes to the quotient to define the cap product , and looking carefully at the above composition shows that it indeed takes the form of maps , which is always zero for .

Fundamental Class

For any point  in , we have the long-exact sequence in homology (with coefficients in ) of the pair (M, M - {x}) (See Relative homology) 

An element  of  is called the fundamental class for  if  is a generator of . A fundamental class of  exists if  is closed and R-orientable. In fact, if  is a closed, connected and -orientable manifold, the map  is an isomorphism for all  in  and hence, we can choose any generator of  as the fundamental class.

Relation with Poincaré duality

For a closed -orientable n-manifold  with fundamental class  in  (which we can choose to be any generator of ), the cap product map 
is an isomorphism for all . This result is famously called Poincaré duality.

The slant product

If in the above discussion one replaces  by , the construction can be (partially) replicated starting from the mappings

and

to get, respectively, slant products :
 and

In case X = Y, the first one is related to the cap product by the diagonal map: . 

These ‘products’ are in some ways more like division than multiplication, which is reflected in their notation.

Equations
The boundary of a cap product is given by :

Given a map f the induced maps satisfy :

The cap and cup product are related by :

where

,   and 

An interesting consequence of the last equation is that it makes  into a right  module.

See also
Cup product
Poincaré duality
Singular homology
Homology theory

References
Hatcher, A., Algebraic Topology, Cambridge University Press (2002) . Detailed discussion of homology theories for simplicial complexes and manifolds, singular homology, etc.
  Section 2.7 provides a category-theoretic presentation of the theorem as a colimit in the category of groupoids.

Homology theory
Algebraic topology
Binary operations