# Partial fractions in complex analysis

In complex analysis, a partial fraction expansion is a way of writing a meromorphic function   as an infinite sum of rational functions and polynomials. When  is a rational function, this reduces to the usual method of partial fractions.

Motivation

By using polynomial long division and the partial fraction technique from algebra, any rational function can be written as a sum of terms of the form , where  and  are complex,  is an integer, and  is a polynomial. Just as polynomial factorization can be generalized to the Weierstrass factorization theorem, there is an analogy to partial fraction expansions for certain meromorphic functions.

A proper rational function (one for which the degree of the denominator is greater than the degree of the numerator) has a partial fraction expansion with no polynomial terms. Similarly, a meromorphic function  for which  goes to 0 as  goes to infinity at least as quickly as  has an expansion with no polynomial terms.

Calculation

Let  be a function meromorphic in the finite complex plane with poles at  and let  be a sequence of simple closed curves such that:

 The origin lies inside each curve 
 No curve passes through a pole of 
  lies inside  for all 
 , where  gives the distance from the curve to the origin
 one more condition of compatibility with the poles , described at the end of this section

Suppose also that there exists an integer  such that

Writing  for the principal part of the Laurent expansion of  about the point , we have

if . If , then

where the coefficients  are given by

 should be set to 0, because even if  itself does not have a pole at 0, the residues of  at  must still be included in the sum.

Note that in the case of , we can use the Laurent expansion of  about the origin to get

so that the polynomial terms contributed are exactly the regular part of the Laurent series up to .

For the other poles  where ,  can be pulled out of the residue calculations:

 To avoid issues with convergence, the poles should be ordered so that if  is inside , then  is also inside  for all .

Example

The simplest meromorphic functions with an infinite number of poles are the non-entire trigonometric functions. As an example,  is meromorphic with poles at ,  The contours  will be squares with vertices at  traversed counterclockwise, , which are easily seen to satisfy the necessary conditions.

On the horizontal sides of ,

so

 for all real , which yields

For ,  is continuous, decreasing, and bounded below by 1, so it follows that on the horizontal sides of , . Similarly, it can be shown that  on the vertical sides of .

With this bound on  we can see that

That is, the maximum of  on  occurs at the minimum of , which is .

Therefore , and the partial fraction expansion of  looks like

The principal parts and residues are easy enough to calculate, as all the poles of  are simple and have residue -1:

We can ignore , since both  and  are analytic at 0, so there is no contribution to the sum, and ordering the poles  so that , etc., gives

Applications

Infinite products

Because the partial fraction expansion often yields sums of , it can be useful in finding a way to write a function as an infinite product; integrating both sides gives a sum of logarithms, and exponentiating gives the desired product:

Applying some logarithm rules,

which finally gives

Laurent series
The partial fraction expansion for a function can also be used to find a Laurent series for it by simply replacing the rational functions in the sum with their Laurent series, which are often not difficult to write in closed form. This can also lead to interesting identities if a Laurent series is already known.

Recall that

We can expand the summand using a geometric series:

Substituting back,

which shows that the coefficients  in the Laurent (Taylor) series of  about  are

where  are the tangent numbers.

Conversely, we can compare this formula to the Taylor expansion for  about  to calculate the infinite sums:

See also
 Partial fraction
 Line integral
 Residue (complex analysis)
 Residue theorem

References
 Markushevich, A.I. Theory of functions of a complex variable. Trans. Richard A. Silverman. Vol. 2. Englewood Cliffs, N.J.: Prentice-Hall, 1965.

Complex analysis
Partial fractions