# Misaki Chronicles

is an anime sequel to Divergence Eve.  It follows smoothly from the previous series.  The characters are the same and the plot is similar, but the theme of the episodes is much different.  In this series, the elite team at Watcher's Nest is traveling through time, fighting the Ghoul at different points in time during Earth's history, mostly in Japan.  There's also some discussion about the fact that the different times to which they are traveling may also be different versions of Earth, on which the time-line is slightly altered.  This series is also distinct from its predecessor in that it is more plot- and character-driven, with less in the way of fan service.

Episodes
 2315 – Allied Forces Military Academy (8 May 2302, 20 May 2315)
 The first episode begins with a flashback to Misaki's childhood, depicting her relationship with her father.  Back in 2315, Misaki is just starting her military training in boot camp. In the present time, Lyar is prepared to begin her hunt for the GHOUL on Earth, armed with newly developed technology and a newly upgraded Kotoko.
 2316 – Field Training
 Misaki and her new team begin field training.  When a friend from her future visits, the mission becomes much more real. At the end of the episode, Lyar comments on Misaki's performance during the field training exercise to Kiri, whose group she was shown being a part of. Kiri explains she and Misaki never worked together. The first time the two even met was after her assignment to Watcher's Nest. 
 1594 – The Assassination of Toyotomi Hideyoshi
 Lyar travels back into feudal Japan during the sixteenth century to find a ghoul.  She meets a man who helps her complete her mission. A failed assassination attempt leaves Kurenai-no-ha mortally wounded.
 1594 – Grotesque Shadow
 Still in feudal Japan, Lyar encounters another spectral that appears to be Misaki in her ghoul form. Misaki attempts to make contact with Lyar, but she dismisses it as an illusion of the GHOUL and eradicates the creature, causing the Misaki of that time period to drop dead, as the apparition of her younger self looks on in sadness. Lyar is forced to leave prematurely, as the rift is near closing. Lyar must ultimately choose to leave her newest ally as opposed to helping him. When asked for his real name, he finally reveals his name is Ishikawa Goemon. Young Misaki follows Lyar and Kotoko back through the time portal. Kotoko reveals there was a record of a Goemon, who attempted to assassinate a man who ruled Japan during the era, but was unsuccessful and executed as a result.
 1936 – The 2-2-6 Incident
 A bloody coup attempt is taking place in pre-World War II Japan.  The team is alerted to a ghoul presence in the middle of that coup and Kiri and Kotoko are dispatched to attack it.  When they arrive, Kiri finds that Misaki is already there and learns about what has been causing all of the strange ghoul events.
 2305 – Allied Military Naval Base
 Misaki travels to a time in which her father is still alive and is preparing to go to Watcher's Nest.
 The Two Watcher's Nests
 Watcher's Nest comes into contact with a version of itself on another time-line.  The team, including Suzanna, travels to it to gather information.
 Soldiers Return
 The Ruin's Secret
 Hidden Past
 Overlapping Timelines
 Mission 4
 Ghouls have begun invading from all Inflation Holes in the universe. Suzanna is dispatched to sever the link between LeBlanc's link with the control room. Lyar destroys the Necromcaners. Misaki, Lyar and Kiri enter the ruins, only to enter a battle with a GHOUL used by LeBlanc to hold them off. They manage to dodge the GHOUL's attacks, and trap the creature in a micro-quantum barrier. As Misaki flies over the creature to stop LeBlanc, the GHOUL manages to fire a final shot before being completely trapped by the barrier. With no way of avoiding the shot, Kiri intercepts the blast head-on, dying as a result. Misaki confronts LeBlanc, but is unable to fire due to his control over the environment. As he shoots at Misaki using his rampant armor, Prim delivers her own body to the Integral System using Kotoko-02's body, and manages to hold LeBlanc at bay long enough for Misaki to finish him off. As LeBlanc resists, it causes damage to the Integral System, harming Prim's physical body. LeBlanc informs Misaki she will destroy Prim's mind if she fires on her now. Prim explains she is the only one who can stop her brother's madness, and explains their familiar relation as being due to being two subjects created from the same set of genes. After learning the truth behind their connection, Misaki tearfully fires the final shot, killing LeBlanc and Prim in the process. Unfortunately, it was too late. The information she provided to LeBlanc while under his control was complete, allowing him to transfer his mind to a host body that would go on to merge with the GHOUL. LeBlanc's goal has been to achieve an existence of utter nothingness. LeBlanc was created as a test subject at the hands of Alchemy, an organization form that wanted to make science the religion of the new age. Both are in the GHOUL-form, and just as LeBlanc appears to be gaining the upper hand, Misaki manages to tip the balance in her favor. Misaki connects the last Inflation Hole connecting their current location and Earth, and sends Lyar, Kotoko, Suzanna, and all of the people aboard the ring back to Titan, the site of the Inflation Hole.  
 Misaki (14 June 2318 – 2327)
 One year after the events of the previous episode, Lyar receives permission to visit the families of those who died at Watcher's Nest. She first pays a visit to Luxandra's mother. Woern's receives confirmation those displaced from Watcher's Nest cannot return to Earth. She next visits Kiri's brother. A visit to see Kotoko prior to these visits revealed no information about an individual named Misaki. Her last trip takes her to Alchemy to explain Prim's death, which had been blamed on an accident with the accelerator. Suzanna submits an application to become join on at the engineering department for the emigration project, which involves the use of interstellar spacecraft. Prim informs Jalabert on the collapse of the Inflation Hole near Titan. Her reports also indicate that Juzoh Kureha had no children, and he in turn confirms that Lyar von Ertiana is the last survivor of the Kessler Project. 
2327 – Lt. Commander Ertiana is keeping a journal, and explains that it's been sixty-years since they've set out into the Solar System. Due to her being the captain, it's necessary for her to stay awake, along with the crew, to make sure nothing goes wrong on the journey. She will spend approximately twenty-years of their mission awake while alternating shifts with two vice captains. A mission is patched in to the ship, which is from Misaki telling the potential receiver to inform Lt. Commander Ertiana that she is ok. The vessel comes in contact with Watcher's Nest, which indicates that there's still signs of a collapse. Lyar decides to explore the region and comes across Misaki's old room. She finds her journal there, which describes her experiences after first arriving at Watcher's Nest. After Lyar regains hope of making contact with Misaki, she can be seen running through Watcher's Nest as power is restored and the people are let out of their ships. There are a number of minor appearances from characters who had appeared in the previous series, and even this one, in periphery roles, including Luke Walker, the ice cream vendor from the Divergence Eve episodes Specular and Designer's Children, and the girl who witnessed the specular of the Ghoul in Specular. A woman can be made out prominently from the back, dressed in clothes similar to Luxandra in the opening theme song, looking at the schedule of flights. She is joined by a woman whose outfit greatly resembles Kiri's from the theme song and Misaki's memories. These two doppelgängers exchange glances, but only their faces above the nose are visible. The Luxandra-like woman's scars are noticeably absent from her face. Suzanna can also be seen working in a similar maintenance position as she was after her memories were altered in Divergence Eve. Professor Jalabert and Prim are also seen arriving, but not without the introduction of a woman whose face below the nose are not shown. Her appearance, including the color of the uniform, her eyes and the braid wrapped around her forehead, all resemble Lyar from her cadet days in the tenth episode, Hidden Past. Guided by an apparition of Young Misaki, Lyar discovers Misaki materializing in her room, along with her journal. Misaki explains she's been waiting there for her the whole time. Lyar embraces Misaki in a warm hug, which closes out the series.

Characters

Main characters
  
 Misaki's the main character after which the series is named.  For most of the series, she does not appear in human form.  She reveals herself to other characters as a translucent apparition of herself in a ye