# Central product

In mathematics, especially in the field of group theory, the central product is one way of producing a group from two smaller groups.  The central product is similar to the direct product, but in the central product two isomorphic central subgroups of the smaller groups are merged into a single central subgroup of the product.  Central products are an important construction and can be used for instance to classify extraspecial groups.

Definition

There are several related but distinct notions of central product.  Similarly to the direct product, there are both internal and external characterizations, and additionally there are variations on how strictly the intersection of the factors is controlled.

A group G is an internal central product of two subgroups H, K if
 G is generated by H and K. 
 Every element of H commutes with every element of K. 
Sometimes the stricter requirement that  is exactly equal to the center is imposed, as in . The subgroups H and K are then called central factors of G.

The external central product is constructed from two groups H and K, two subgroups  and , and a group isomorphism .  The external central product is the quotient of the direct product  by the normal subgroup 
, 
. Sometimes the stricter requirement that H1 = Z(H) and K1 = Z(K) is imposed, as in .

An internal central product is isomorphic to an external central product with H1 = K1 = H ∩ K and θ the identity.  An external central product is an internal central product of the images of H × 1 and 1 × K in the quotient group .  This is shown for each definition in  and .

Note that the external central product is not in general determined by its factors H and K alone.  The isomorphism type of the central product will depend on the isomorphism θ. It is however well defined in some notable situations, for example when H and K are both finite extra special groups and  and .

Examples
 The Pauli group is the central product of the cyclic group  and the dihedral group .
 Every extra special group is a central product of extra special groups of order p3.
 The layer of a finite group, that is, the subgroup generated by all subnormal quasisimple subgroups, is a central product of quasisimple groups in the sense of Gorenstein.

Applications

The representation theory of central products is very similar to the representation theory of direct products, and so is well understood, .

Central products occur in many structural lemmas, such as  which is used in George Glauberman's result that finite groups admitting a Klein four group of fixed-point-free automorphisms are solvable.

In certain context of a tensor product of Lie modules (and other related structures), the automorphism group contains a central product of the  automorphism groups of each factor .

References

 
 
 

Finite groups