# The Fox and the Cat

The Fox and the Cat (; "the cat and the fox") are a pair of fictional characters and the main antagonists, along with the Coachman and the Terrible Dogfish, in Italian writer Carlo Collodi's 1883 book Le avventure di Pinocchio (The Adventures of Pinocchio). They are depicted as poor con-men, who hoodwink Pinocchio and attempt to murder him. They pretend to be disabled: the Fox lame and the Cat blind. The Fox appears to be more intelligent than the Cat, who usually limits himself to repeating the Fox's words.

Role in the book

Pinocchio encounters the two after leaving Mangiafuoco's theatre with five gold sequins, whereupon the Fox claims to know Pinocchio's father Mister Geppetto and proposes to Pinocchio to visit the Land of Barn Owls (Paese dei Barbagianni) and thence to a 'Field of Miracles' (Il campo dei Miracoli), where coins can be grown into a money-producing tree. A white blackbird warns Pinocchio against these lies, but is eaten by the Cat. The Fox covers up this action by claiming that the blackbird talks too much. The pair lead Pinocchio to the Red Crayfish Inn (Osteria del Gambero Rosso), where they eat a large meal and ask to be awoken at midnight.

Two hours before the set time, the pair abandon Pinocchio to pay for the meal with one of his sequins, and have the innkeeper leave a message for Pinocchio that the Cat's eldest kitten had fallen ill, and that they would meet Pinocchio at the Field of Miracles later. When Pinocchio leaves the inn, the two attack him in the guise of murderers and in the ensuing struggle, Pinocchio bites off the Cat's paw. The murderers then hang Pinocchio from a tree, which he escapes with the assistance of The Fairy with Turquoise Hair, who enlisted a falcon to cut him down.

The next day, Pinocchio encounters the pair again, unaware they are the murderers who tried to hang him. When Pinocchio notices the Cat's paw in a sling, the Fox claims that the Cat cut it off to feed a starving wolf. They lead Pinocchio to the town of Catchfools (Acchiappacitrulli), where the coins are soon buried. In Pinocchio's absence, the pair dig up the sequins and escape. Pinocchio learns of this from a parrot, who mocks him for falling for their tricks.

Near the end of the book, Pinocchio encounters the Fox and the Cat again when looking for a place for Geppetto to recover. But this time, the pair have become impoverished, whereas the Fox is now truly lame, nearly hairless, and tailless (the Fox had to chop off his own tail because he sold it to buy food), and the Cat became truly blind. They plead for food or money, but  are rebuffed by Pinocchio while stating that their misfortunes have served them right for their wickedness. He then leaves, all the while saying goodbye to his 'false friends'.

Portrayals in popular culture

Honest John and Gideon (Disney) 

In the 1940 Disney film Pinocchio, the Fox and the Cat are given the names J. Worthington Foulfellow  (or "Honest John"; voiced by Walter Catlett) and Gideon (whose hiccups were provided by Mel Blanc and whose mute comic hijinks were modeled on Harpo Marx, the silent member of The Marx Brothers). The pair differ from the original characters in a number of ways; they are still poor, but they do not feign disability and they persuade Pinocchio to join Stromboli's (the film's counterpart to Mangiafuoco) puppet show (instead of Pinocchio discovering it himself) as well as go to Pleasure Island, upon being hired to do so by the Coachman. They also do not attempt to murder Pinocchio, although Honest John suggests to the Coachman in one scene that they would be willing to murder if required as part of a job with much more money than usual involved in it. The Field of Miracles subplot is also absent from the film. Honest John is portrayed as an eccentric ham actor who appears to be illiterate (as evidenced by one scene where he "reads" Pinocchio's schoolbook upside down), whereas Gideon is portrayed as a foolish mute who frequently gets Honest John into trouble by accident. Apart from three hiccups, Gideon is mute throughout the film. A draft script of the film had Honest John and Gideon being arrested onscreen by the police after encountering Pinocchio a third time, but this scene was written out of the film's final draft for unknown reasons, presumably for time constraints and/or costs. The characters were considered to be used again in the Disney film Fun and Fancy Free (1947) as the owners of the Magic Beans that Mickey Mouse acquires in exchange for his cow, but the idea was dropped.

In the video game based on Pinocchio, Honest John and Gideon appear as enemies during the first stage. The duo were also planned to make an appearance in the RPG video game Kingdom Hearts 358/2 Days (2009), but were cut for space restrictions.

In the Disney book Pinocchio's Promise, Honest John and Gideon see Pinocchio walking into town to give a cuckoo clock to Geppetto's friend Mrs. Romano, whereupon he is diverted to a circus. Honest John attempts to sell the clock elsewhere, while Gideon takes Pinocchio to the circus with two expired tickets, but abandons the boy when the latter is scolded by the admission attendant. After Pinocchio leaves the circus and reports Honest John's trickery to the local police, Honest John runs away chased by the policeman and Pinocchio gives the clock to Mrs. Romano.

In a Disney book adaption of the tale The Emperor's New Clothes, Honest John and Gideon - posing as tailors - trick the emperor (portrayed in the same book by Prince John).

Honest John and Gideon also appear in the fifth installment of the book series The Kingdom Keepers. They are featured as members of the Disney Villains legion known as the Overtakers, and battle Finn in chapter six of Shell Game.

Honest John is a playable character in the mobile game Disney Magic Kingdoms.

Honest John and Gideon appear in Disney's 2022 live-action/CGI remake of Pinocchio, in which the former is voiced by Keegan-Michael Key.

In other media

 In the 1936 Soviet book adaptation The Golden Key, or the Adventures of Buratino, they are named Alice the Fox and Basilio the Cat. In the 1959 animated adaptation of the book  they are voiced by Elena Ponsova and Vladimir Lepko, respectively, in the original version. In the 1975 live-action adaptation, they are played by Rolan Bykov and Elena Sanaeva.

 In the 1947 Italian live action film Le avventure di Pinocchio, the Fox and the Cat are portrayed by Angelo Taddeoli and Pietro Tommei.

 They are featured in the 1952 anime series Piccolino no Bōken.

 In the 1960–61 television adaptation by Rankin/Bass Productions, The New Adventures of Pinocchio, the Fox and the Cat were named Foxy Q. Fibble and Cool S. Cat, and are voiced by Larry D. Mann and Paul Kligman.

 The Fox and the Cat appeared in the 1972 miniseries The Adventures of Pinocchio, portrayed by Franco and Ciccio. They are depicted as humans who work as comedians for Mangiafuoco, wearing makeup as a fox and a cat. They are later fired and try to steal Pinocchio's coins.

 In the 1972 animated film The Adventures of Pinocchio (directed by Giuliano Cenci), the Fox and the Cat (voiced by Sergio Tedesco and Manlio De Angelis in the Italian version, and by Alan Sues and Don Messick in the English dub) follow the characterization shown in the book: the pair pretend to be physically disabled, and tempt Pinocchio to the Field of Miracles. As in the book, the Fox is the more articulate of the two, and the Pair attempt to murder Pinocchio for his coins, though the Cat does not lose his paw as his book counterpart does. At the end of the film, the two are impoverished, though the Fox does not lose his tail nor any of his fur as in the book.

 In Pinocchio: The Series (1972), the Fox is named Jack while the cat is replaced with a weasel named Willie.

 The Fox and the Cat are the primary antagonists of another Rankin/Bass adaptation, Pinocchio's Christmas (1980), voiced by Allen Swift (who was impersonating Claude Rains) and Pat Bright. They had previously made 'friends' with Pinocchio and taught him many of his bad habits. They do not feign disability and the Cat is female, as in the book. While they did a trick similar to the Field of Miracles to Pinocchio, which involved a Christmas tree growing at sunset from some coins, they just said that the tree failed to grow. The Fox and the Cat try to sell Pinocchio to a sleigh driver who works for a rich duke who will give Pinocchio to his children. When Lady Azora looks into Pinocchio's future and mentions that he will be led astray on his path to becoming a real boy, Pinocchio catches a glimpse of the Fox and the Cat waving at him through the window.

 In the 1987 animated film Pinocchio and the Emperor of the Night (which serves as a sequel to the Pinocchio story), Pinocchio encounters a pair of shady animal characters very similar to the Fox and the Cat: a large raccoon named Sylvester J. Scalawag (voiced by Ed Asner) and a monkey named Igor (voiced by