# Sport in Pakistan

Sport in Pakistan is a significant part of Pakistani culture. Cricket is the most popular sport in Pakistan, while field hockey, polo, and squash are also popular. Traditional sports like kabaddi and other well-known games are also played. 

The Pakistan Sports Board was created in 1962 by the Ministry of Education as a corporate body for the purposes of promoting and developing uniform standards of competition in sports in Pakistan comparable to the standards prevailing internationally, and regulating and controlling sports in Pakistan on a national basis. The Ministry of Culture, Sports and Tourism, now has control over the Pakistan Sports Board. The PSB controls all 39 sporting federations. The Pakistan Sports Board is supported by the Pakistan Sports Trust, which assists hard up players and associations so they can continue participating in sports.

Over recent years there has been an increase in sporting activity in Pakistan, with Pakistani sportsmen and women participating at many national and international events. Also, more international tournaments now take place in Pakistan. The size of the teams Pakistan sends, and the number of events they participate in, such as the Olympic Games, Asian Games, World Games, and Commonwealth Games has increased since the turn of the century.

National participation
Muhammad Ali Jinnah, the founder of Pakistan, had a great love for sport and fully realised the vital role it played in the development of nations and inculcation of discipline among the masses. In a meeting with the Organizing Committee of the First Pakistan Olympic Games held at Karachi, Jinnah told the first President of the Pakistan Olympic Association, Ahmed E.H.:

The first National Games were held at Polo Ground, Karachi from 23 to 25 April 1948. Sportsmen and officials from East Pakistan (now Bangladesh) and all the integrated Provincial units of West Pakistan took part in these games. The total number of athletes was 140. No competitors were, however, invited from any foreign country. Competitions were held in basketball, boxing, cycling, track and field, volleyball, weightlifting, and wrestling.

Over the years, Pakistan has been held back due to the lack of funds placed in sports. Many facilities are substandard, causing Pakistan to fall behind other nations. In its early years the young state had been able to compete with much success, but during the late 1970s, with the government no longer investing in athletics, the country could no longer compete.

However, since the late 1990s, this trend has changed. Money is now being placed into sports, and many of the federations are now managed by people who are trying to push Pakistani sportsmen and -women forward. International tournaments are now hosted in the country, and the nation sends athletes to compete abroad. There has also been restructuring of national tournaments, and new facilities and equipment are being provided. This has seen overall results improve.

On March 3, 2009, 12 militants with guns, grenades, and rocket launchers attacked a bus carrying the Sri Lanka national cricket team to a match at Lahore's Gaddafi Stadium in Pakistan. Six Pakistani policemen escorting the team and two civilians were killed while seven Sri Lankan players and an assistant coach were injured. Since the terrorist attacks, no foreign cricket teams  toured Pakistan until 2015 when Zimbabwe toured for an away series. A month after the attack on the Sri Lankan team, the International Cricket Council relieved Pakistan of co-hosting duty for any 2011 Cricket World Cup games. Pakistan has tried to make the best of the situation by offering to host its "home" matches on neutral territory in the United Arab Emirates.  However, due to a decrease in terrorism in Pakistan over the past few years, as well as an increase in security, many teams have toured Pakistan since 2015. These teams include Zimbabwe, Sri Lanka, West Indies, Bangladesh, South Africa, Australia and an ICC World XI team. In addition, the Pakistan Super League has seen games hosted in Pakistan.

The Pakistan Sports Board is a government institution whereas the Pakistan Olympic Association is working under the shelter of the International Olympic Committee. Due to government interference, the Pakistan Olympic Association is very close to getting a ban from participation in Olympic Games. Due to cold war, Pakistani sport is also suffering but, there is no hope to resolve this problem due to government level dictatorship.

Team sports

Cricket 

Cricket is the most popular sport in Pakistan. Almost all districts and neighbourhoods in Pakistan have a cricket team and people start playing from a young age. Pakistan has won international cricket events, which include the 1992 Cricket World Cup, the 2009 ICC World Twenty20 and the 2017 ICC Champions Trophy besides finishing as runner-up in the 1999 Cricket World Cup, 2007 ICC World Twenty20 and the 2022 T20 World Cup. Pakistan also won the ACC Asia cup in 2000 and 2012 and all three versions of the Austral-Asia Cup. 

Pakistan's cricket teams take part in domestic competitions such as the Quaid-e-Azam Trophy, the Patron's Trophy, ABN-AMRO Twenty-20 Cup, and the ABN-AMRO Champions Trophy. Pakistan Cricket Board also organize a franchise based T20 cricket league known as the Pakistan Super League. 

International Test and one-day matches are played between the Pakistan national cricket team and foreign opponents regularly. Women's cricket is also very popular, with Kiran Baluch holding the current record of the highest score in a women's test match with her innings of 242. The Pakistan Cricket Board controls both the men's and women's games. The 2020 Pakistan Super League events was hosted entirely by Pakistan.

Notable cricketers from Pakistan include Aaqib Javed, Ramiz Raja, Shoaib Akhtar, Younis Khan, Saqlain Mushtaq, Mushtaq Ahmed, Abdul Qadir, Wasim Akram, Zaheer Abbas, Javed Miandad, Saeed Anwar, Muhammad Yousaf, Inzamam-ul-Haq, Waqar Younis, Shahid Afridi, the Mohammad brothers (Hanif, Mushtaq, Sadiq and Wazir) and Imran Khan. Hanif Mohammad, Imran Khan, Javed Miandad, Wasim Akram, Waqar Younis, Zaheer Abbas and Abdul Qadir have been named in the ICC Cricket Hall of Fame. Saeed Anwar's 194 runs against India in 1997 remained the record for most runs by a batsman in an ODI for 13 years which was equalled by Zimbabwe's Charles Coventry against Bangladesh in 2009 and then broken by India's Sachin Tendulkar who hit 200* against South Africa in 2010. Shoaib Akhtar holds the record of delivering the fastest delivery in the history of cricket, bowling at a speed of 163km/h (100.2mph) to Nick Knight agianst England at the 2003 World Cup. Shahid Afridi holds numerous records i.e. the 3rd fastest century in ODIs, the highest number of sixes in international cricket. Wasim Akram at the time of his retirement had taken the most wickets in ODIs. Muhammad Yousuf has scored the most Test runs in a calendar year.

Field hockey 

The Pakistan Hockey Federation (PHF) is the national governing body of field hockey in Pakistan. The Pakistan Hockey Federation Women Wing (PHFWW) is the official organisation of women's field hockey in Pakistan. 

The Pakistan national field hockey team has won 3 gold medals at the Olympic Games, and lifted the Hockey World Cup 4 times, being the country with most World Cups till the present. It has also won the most Asian gold medals, and is the only Asian team to have won the prestigious Champions Trophy with 3 titles. It used to be consistently ranked among the top teams in the world. However, lately there has been a decline in results, with the national team failing to qualify for both the 2016 and 2020 Olympics. The hockey team also failed to qualify for 2023 World cup. Also, because of the PHF's poor economy, there was a span of two years without any international matches netween 2019 and 2021. PHF secretary lamented over lack of funding could even ban Pakistan hockey team. As of December 2022 the team is ranked 16th in the world. Notable players include World-Record holder Waseem Ahmad, Mohammed Saqlain, and Sohail Abbas.

Football 

Pakistan is known as the manufacturer of the official FIFA World Cup ball. Yet, as in most parts of South Asia, football is not especially popular in Pakistan. As on 31 March 2023 Pakistan Men's team is ranked 195 as per FIFA ranking. The Pakistan Football Federation (PFF) is the governing body in Pakistan. 

The origin of football in Pakistan can be traced back to mid-nineteenth century when the game was introduced during the British Raj. Initially, games were played between army teams. However, clubs were soon set up around the country. One of the regional federations to organise football on what is now Pakistan Territory was the North-West India Football Association, in which clubs from the city of Lahore and the surrounding region were active. Kohat FC was the first club to be established in 1930, it became the first out