ME Research Paper

Title: Modeling and Fault Detection of Brushless Direct Current Motor by Deep Learning Sensor Data Fusion

Abstract:
Only with new sensor concepts in a network, which go far beyond what the current state-of-the-art can offer, can current and future requirements for flexibility, safety, and security be met. The combination of data from many sensors allows a richer representation of the observed phenomenon, e.g., system degradation, which can facilitate analysis and decision-making processes. This work addresses the topic of predictive maintenance by exploiting sensor data fusion and artificial intelligence-based analysis. With a dataset such as vibration and sound from sensors, we focus on studying paradigms that orchestrate the most optimal combination of sensors with deep learning sensor fusion algorithms to enable predictive maintenance. In our experimental setup, we used raw data obtained from two sensors, a microphone, and an accelerometer installed on a brushless direct current (BLDC) motor. The data from each sensor were processed individually and, in a second step, merged to create a solid base for analysis. To diagnose BLDC motor faults, this work proposes to use data-level sensor fusion with deep learning methods such as deep convolutional neural networks (DCNNs) for their ability to automatically extract relevant information from the input data, the long short-term memory method (LSTM), and convolutional long short-term memory (CNN-LSTM), a combination of the two previous methods. The results show that in our setup, sound signals outperform vibrations when used individually for training. However, without any feature selection/extraction step, the accuracy of the models improves with data fusion and reaches 98.8%, 93.5%, and 73.6% for the DCNN, CNN-LSTM, and LSTM methods, respectively, 98.8% being a performance that, according to our reading, has never been reached in the analysis of the faults of a BLDC motor without first going through the extraction of the characteristics and their fusion by traditional methods. These results show that it is possible to work with raw data from multiple sensors and achieve good results using deep learning methods without spending time and resources on selecting appropriate features to extract and methods to use for feature extraction and data fusion.