# Senate of Kazakhstan

The Senate of Kazakhstan (, Қазақстан Парламентінің Сенаты, ) is the upper house of two chambers in Kazakhstan's legislature, known as the Parliament (Parlamenti). The Senate is composed of elected members: two from each region and two from three municipalities which are Almaty, Astana, and Shymkent.

Members of the Senate are elected on the basis of indirect suffrage by secret ballot. Half of elected members of the Senate are up for election every three years. Fifteen members are appointed by the President of Kazakhstan with the view to ensure representation for all the diverse national, cultural components of society. The term of office for the members of the Senate is six years.

According to constitutional norms in the Parliament of the fifth convocation, members of the Senate elected in 2011 and 2014 and those appointed by the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan in 2011 and 2013 continue to hold office.

History 
The Senate of Kazakhstan was established shortly after the 1995 Kazakh constitutional referendum held on 30 August 1995 where voters approved of a new draft of the Constitution that formed a bicameral Parliament which included the upper house Senate in Kazakhstan for the first time. According to the Constitution, the term of office of the Senators of the 1st convocation was 4 years, while half of the Senators were re-elected every 2 years. In the aftermath of the elections held on 5 December 1995, 40 Senators were elected in which 2 each from 19 regions and the capital of Kazakhstan which at that time was Almaty from the mäslihats (local legislatures) members and 7 Senators were appointed by the President Nursultan Nazarbayev. The Senate convened in first session on 30 January 1996.

On 8 October 1997, elections for 4 year term Senators were held in connection with the end of the term of office of the Senators who were elected for 2 years. After the past administrative reform and optimization of regions, 15 Senators were elected which were held in 14 regions and in Almaty. In aftermath of Akmola being declared as the new capital of Kazakhstan, elections for Senators were held on 11 February 1998 from the city.

On 7 October 1998, amendments to the Constitution of Kazakhstan were adopted, according to which the term of office of a Senator was increased to 6 years, while the other half of the Senators were to be every 3 years. In connection with the end of the term of office of the Senators who were elected in 1995 for a 4 year term, reelections took place on 17 September 1999, where the Senators were elected for 6 year term. The Senators elected in 1997 continued serving in the 2nd convocation until December 2002.

On 21 May 2007, amendments to the Constitution of Kazakhstan were adopted. The number of Senators appointed by the President of Kazakhstan increased from 7 to 15. On 29 August 2007, by a presidential decree, 8 new Senators were appointed, thus the number of seats in the Senate increased from 39 to 47.

In June 2018, the city of Shymkent became a municipality, which led to a Senate election in the City Mäslihat on 5 October 2018. As a result, the number of senate seats was increased from 47 to 49.

In May 2019, the status of "Honorary Senator" was established, which was awarded to the first President of Kazakhstan, Nursultan Nazarbayev for "his outstanding contribution to the formation of the constitutional and legal foundations of the Republic of Kazakhstan as a democratic, secular, legal and social state, as well as to the formation and development of domestic parliamentarianism."

Electoral system 
Out of the 50 members of the Senate of Kazakhstan, 40 are indirectly elected for six years by delegates from the 17 provinces and three national cities. They're not elected all at once : twenty are elected every three years, one per province and city. Senators represent every region and city. The remaining 10 are nominated by the president, among which half on the proposal of the People's Assembly.

Powers of the Senate

Joint sessions of Senate and Mazhilis
According to the Constitution and the Constitutional law "On the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan" the Parliament at joint sessions of the Chambers shall:
 make amendments and additions to the Constitution at the proposal of President of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
 approve the reports of the Government and the Accounts Committee on implementation of the republican budget. If the parliament doesn't approve Government's report on implementation of the republican budget, it means a motion of no-confidence vote by the Parliament against the Government;
 have the right to delegate legislative powers for a term not exceeding one year to the President by two-thirds of the votes from the total number of deputies of each Chamber at the initiative of the President;
 decide issues of war and peace;
 adopt decisions concerning the use of the Armed Forces of the Republic to fulfill international obligations in support of peace and security at the proposal of the President of the Republic;
 hear annual messages of the Constitutional Council of the Republic on the state of the constitutional legality in the Republic;
 form joint commissions of the Chambers; elect and release from office their chairpersons; hear report on the activity of the commissions;
 exercise other powers assigned to Parliament by the Constitution.

Separate sessions of Senate and Mazhilis
Parliament at separate sessions of the Chambers through consecutive consideration of issues first in the Mazhilis and then in the Senate shall adopt constitutional laws and laws, and shall:
 approve the budget of the republic, make amendments and additions;
 establish and remove state fees and taxes;
 establish the procedure dealing with the issues of administrative-territorial division of Kazakhstan;
 institute state awards, honorary, military and other titles, ranked positions, diplomatic ranks of the Republic of Kazakhstan, and define state symbols of the Republic;
 decide issues of state loans and rendering of economic and other assistance by the Republic;
 issue acts of amnesty to citizens;
 ratify and denounce international treaties of the Republic.

Also shall:
 discuss reports on implementation of the budget of the republic;
 conduct second round of discussions and voting on bills and separate articles that were subject to President's objection;
 put forward an initiative calling for national referendum.

Exclusive powers of the Senate of Parliament
The following shall belong to exclusive jurisdiction of the Senate:
 election and discharge from office of the Chairperson of the Supreme Court and judges of the Supreme Court of the Republic at the proposal of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan and swearing them into office;
 approval of the appointment of the Prosecutor General and the Chairperson of the Committee of National Security by the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
 assuming all the functions of the Parliament of the Republic in adopting constitutional laws and laws in the period of temporary absence of the Mazhilis following its early dissolution (On two occasions the Senate assumed all the functions of the Parliament in adopting constitutional laws and laws: from June 21 till July 11, 2007, and from November 16, 2011 till January 19, 2012);
 Exercise other powers assigned to the Senate of the Parliament by the Constitution.

Special authorities of the Senate of Parliament

Each Chamber independently without participation of another Chamber shall:
 appoint two members of the Constitutional Council; appoint two members for a five-year term to the Central Election Commission and three members of the Accounts Committee for control over implementation of the republican budget;
 terminate powers of members of the Chambers;
 hold Parliamentary hearings on the issues of within its jurisdiction;
 hear reports of members of the Government of the Republic on the issues of their activities;
 set up coordinating and working bodies of the Chambers;
 adopt the rules of its activities and other decisions on the issues related to organization and internal procedures of the Chambers.

Leadership

Chair of the Senate 

The Chair of the Senate is a person elected by the Senate among the MP's by a secret ballot. The candidature on the post of the Chair is nominated by the President of Kazakhstan.

Mäulen Äşimbaev is the current Chair of the Senate.

Deputy Chair of the Senate 

The Senate Chair has two Deputy Chairs who carry out tasks that are made by the Chair. The Deputy Chairs are elected by the Senate MP's who are nominated by the Chair.

There are two Deputy Chairs of the Senate who are Asqar Şäkirov and Nurlan Äbdirov.

Rights, Requirements, and Responsibilities of Senators

A member of the Parliament must be a citizen of the Republic of Kazakhstan who has been a permanent resident on its territory over the last ten years.

To hold office Senators have to be at least 30 years of age