# Jordan's lemma

In complex analysis, Jordan's lemma is a result frequently used in conjunction with the residue theorem to evaluate contour integrals and improper integrals. The lemma is named after the French mathematician Camille Jordan.

Statement 

Consider a complex-valued, continuous function , defined on a semicircular contour

of positive radius  lying in the upper half-plane, centered at the origin. If the function  is of the form

with a positive parameter , then Jordan's lemma states the following upper bound for the contour integral:

with equality when  vanishes everywhere, in which case both sides are identically zero. An analogous statement for a semicircular contour in the lower half-plane holds when .

Remarks 

 If  is continuous on the semicircular contour  for all large  and

then by Jordan's lemma 
 For the case , see the estimation lemma.
 Compared to the estimation lemma, the upper bound in Jordan's lemma does not explicitly depend on the length of the contour .

Application of Jordan's lemma 

Jordan's lemma yields a simple way to calculate the integral along the real axis of functions  holomorphic on the upper half-plane and continuous on the closed upper half-plane, except possibly at a finite number of non-real points , , …, . Consider the closed contour , which is the concatenation of the paths  and  shown in the picture. By definition,

Since on  the variable  is real, the second integral is real:

The left-hand side may be computed using the residue theorem to get, for all  larger than the maximum of , , …, ,

where  denotes the residue of  at the singularity . Hence, if  satisfies condition (), then taking the limit as  tends to infinity, the contour integral over  vanishes by Jordan's lemma and we get the value of the improper integral

Example 

The function

satisfies the condition of Jordan's lemma with  for all  with . Note that, for ,

hence () holds. Since the only singularity of  in the upper half plane is at , the above application yields

Since  is a simple pole of  and , we obtain

so that

This result exemplifies the way some integrals difficult to compute with classical methods are easily evaluated with the help of complex analysis.

This example shows that Jordan's lemma can be used instead of a much simpler estimation lemma. Indeed, estimation lemma suffices to calculate , as well as , Jordan's lemma here is unnecessary.

Proof of Jordan's lemma 

By definition of the complex line integral,

Now the inequality

yields

Using  as defined in () and the symmetry , we obtain

Since the graph of  is concave on the interval , the graph of  lies above the straight line connecting its endpoints, hence

for all , which further implies

See also
Estimation lemma

References
 

Theorems in complex analysis
Articles containing proofs
Lemmas in analysis