# WNKY

WNKY (channel 40) is a television station in Bowling Green, Kentucky, United States, affiliated with NBC and CBS. Owned by Marquee Broadcasting, the station maintains studios on Chestnut Street in downtown Bowling Green, and its transmitter is located on Pilot Knob near Smiths Grove along U.S. Route 68 and I-65.

History

Construction of the station
The FCC granted a construction permit for channel 40 on October 21, 1983, to CMM Communications of Crossville, Tennessee. In 1984, the construction permit was bought by local businessman John M. Cunningham of Crossville. In 1988, Bob Rodgers, president of Word Broadcasting of Louisville, purchased the construction permit about two years after he successfully launched upstart station WBNA in that city.

As an independent station
The newly-licensed station began broadcasting as WQQB on December 17, 1989. At its first sign-on, the outlet operated as a religious independent station airing an analog signal on UHF channel 40. Early on, it struggled in a small market used to all-VHF stations, where ABC affiliate WBKO (channel 13) was all but dominant in Bowling Green proper, while stations from Nashville and to a lesser extent, Louisville, were easily received either over-the-air or via cable and had equal loyalty that WQQB struggled to overcome. In the rush to come to air, it also had a poor overall signal that wasn't easily received and regular technical problems, along with little to no coverage on cable systems outside the immediate Bowling Green area, as revised must-carry rules would not come into effect for another three years. In 1990, Storer Communications (later Insight Communications, now Charter/Spectrum cable) became the first local cable system to carry the station, assigning it to cable channel 27, replacing WXMT (now WUXP-TV) from Nashville; that station would return to area cable systems by the time it became a UPN affiliate when that network launched in 1995.

As a Fox affiliate
In November 1991, Word Broadcasting Network sold WQQB to Southeastern Communications for $1 million. This came as Word Broadcasting president Bob Rodgers assumed additional duties as church pastor and his decision to concentrate solely on operating WBNA in terms of the company's media efforts. The sale was approved by the FCC the following month. 

For WQQB's first few months under Southeastern ownership, it switched to a general entertainment format with a mixture of low-budget syndicated programming, like old movies, sitcoms, and cartoons; this was done in preparation of becoming a network affiliate.

On January 10, 1992, WQQB changed its call letters to WKNT. The station's studios were relocated from the Smiths Grove transmission facility and tower to a facility on Campbell Lane shortly after the callsign change. On April 1st of that year, the station became the area's first Fox network affiliate with the then-new on-air branding as Fox 40; an episode of The Simpsons was its first network program. Between the callsign change and the beginning of the station's Fox affiliation, Storer Communications moved the station to cable channel 7 on its lineup. The following year, WKNT installed a new antenna at its transmission tower.

During its time as a Fox station in the 1990s, WKNT broadcast select Southeastern Conference football games via Jefferson Pilot Sports until 2002 when WBKO started to air those games to go with JP Sports (later Lincoln Financial Sports, then Raycom Sports) SEC basketball broadcasts. From 1994 to 1997, the station also aired the controversial ABC drama NYPD Blue for its second, third and fourth seasons due to WBKO's refusal to air that program; the first season of that program never aired in the Bowling Green market. The program moved to WBKO on February 4, 1997, after the new television ratings system was introduced at the beginning of that year. Except on Saturday, WKNT also aired programming from the Shop at Home Network from 1:00 a.m. to 5:00a.m. until that network's closure in 2005. Despite being a Fox affiliate, UPN's syndicated program block Disney's One Too aired on the station from 7:00 to 9:00 a.m. weekday mornings and from 5:00 to 7:00 a.m. Sunday mornings to cover the children's educational programming requirements. It was the only UPN programming that was ever available in the  Bowling Green market besides WBKO's broadcasts of the first season of Star Trek: Voyager in 1995; all other UPN programming was only receivable via WUXP-TV (now a MyNetworkTV affiliate) in Nashville, as the de facto UPN affiliate for Bowling Green.

On January 1, 1997, the operation of WKNT was taken over by Crossroads Communications under a local marketing agreement (LMA). Crossroads, a subsidiary of Northwest Broadcasting, would buy the station outright on July 17, 2000.

Unexpected loss of Fox affiliation; switch to NBC
In March 2001, Fox announced that it had dropped its affiliation with WKNT because the station did not comply with the terms of the affiliation agreement; almost immediately, NBC agreed to affiliate with the station. On March 27, 2001, the affiliation switch to NBC occurred, and the station changed its call sign to WNKY. At the same time, the station boosted its power from 776,000 watts to 1,640,000 watts, directional with a null to the east. Previously, WBKO was the only station within the Bowling Green market that was affiliated with a Big Three network, and WSMV-TV in Nashville was NBC's affiliate of record in south-central Kentucky. After WNKY switched to NBC, WSMV's over-the-air signal was still available in parts of the Bowling Green market where WNKY could not reach, and some cable systems continued to carry WSMV. Following the loss of WNKY's Fox affiliation, Fox programming was provided to most of the Bowling Green market on cable via Nashville affiliate WZTV, which is also available over-the-air in the southern portion of the market; cable systems in Hart and Metcalfe counties carried Louisville Fox affiliate WDRB instead.

Max Media ownership
In November 2002, Northwest Broadcasting sold WNKY to Max Media for $7 million; the sale was approved by the FCC in March 2003. On December 12 of that year, it signed on a digital signal on UHF channel 16 from its transmitter tower and facility in Smiths Grove. WNKY-DT was then added alongside its analog counterpart to local digital cable systems, including Insight in Bowling Green and the Electric Plant Board in Glasgow.

On August 7, 2004, WNKY began airing NBC network programming in high definition just in time to broadcast the network's coverage of the 2004 Summer Olympics in Athens. WNKY also installed a Dolby model 569 AC-3 surround sound encoder to relay the 5.1 full surround audio from the network.

On June 3, 2010, as a result of the Satellite Television Extension and Localism Act of 2010, Dish Network began offering both of WNKY's NBC and CBS-affiliated digital subchannels, the latter of which was launched in 2007.

Misuse of the EAS tones
The Federal Communications Commission (FCC) fined the station's licensee, MMK License, $39,000 on November 5, 2013, due to a mid-June 2012 ad filmed and aired by WNKY which featured Emergency Alert System (EAS) tones used in a promotional and non-warning situation. WNKY was also required to launch a local campaign about the EAS, air additional emergency preparation public service announcements, and lease space on their tower for modernized warning equipment to the Warren County Emergency Management agency and the City of Bowling Green.

Cable carriage dispute in Glasgow
On January 1, 2015, the Glasgow Electric Plant Board dropped both of WNKY's digital subchannels from its lineup because of a 1,000 percent increase in cost. Both WNKY and WNKY-DT2 returned to the Electric Plant Board's cable lineup in February 2015 after agreeing to a 100 percent increase instead of 1,000. The digital subchannels were placed on different channels (WNKY on 16 and WNKY-DT2 on 23) without high definition service.

Marquee Broadcasting ownership
On April 5, 2017, Max Media announced that it would sell WNKY to Marquee Broadcasting for $5.6 million. The sale was completed on June 30.

In February 2021, the station relocated from its previous facility on Emmett Avenue on Bowling Green's west side to its current broadcasting facility on Chestnut Street in downtown Bowling Green.

Subchannel history

WNKY-DT2
WNKY-DT2 is the CBS-affiliated second digital subchannel of WNKY, broadcasting in high definition on channel 40.2.

On October 11, 2006, WNKY reached an agreement with CBS to air that network on a new digital subchannel. It was officially launched as WNKY-DT2 on February 1, 2007, which finally gave Bowling Green a locally-based CBS station. Prior to the launch of WNKY-DT2, the Bowling Green market was one of the few areas east of the Mississippi River without its own CBS affiliate, and most of the area was historically served by WTVF in Nashville as the de facto CBS affiliate, while some cable system