# Associative algebra

In mathematics, an associative algebra A over a commutative ring (often a field) K is a ring A together with a ring homomorphism from K into the center of A. This is thus an algebraic structure with an addition,  a multiplication, and a scalar multiplication (the multiplication by the image by the ring homomorphism of an element of K). The addition and multiplication operations together give A the structure of a ring; the addition and scalar multiplication operations together give A the structure of a module or vector space over K. In this article we will also use the term [[algebra over a field|K-algebra]] to mean an associative algebra over  K. A standard first example of a K-algebra is a ring of square matrices over a commutative ring K, with the usual matrix multiplication.

A commutative algebra is an associative algebra that has a commutative multiplication, or, equivalently, an associative algebra that is also a commutative ring.

In this article associative algebras are assumed to have a multiplicative identity, denoted 1; they are sometimes called unital associative algebras for clarification. In some areas of mathematics this assumption is not made, and we will call such structures non-unital associative algebras. We will also assume that all rings are unital, and all ring homomorphisms are unital.

Every ring is an associative algebra over its center and over the integers.

 Definition 

Let R be a commutative ring (so R could be a field). An associative R-algebra (or more simply, an R-algebra) is a ring 
that is also an R-module in such a way that the two additions (the ring addition and the module addition) are the same operation, and scalar multiplication satisfies
 
for all r in R and x, y in the algebra. (This definition implies that the algebra, being a ring, is unital, since rings are supposed to have a multiplicative identity.)

Equivalently, an associative algebra A is a ring together with a ring homomorphism from R to the center of A. If f is such a homomorphism, the scalar multiplication is  (here the multiplication is the ring multiplication); if the scalar multiplication is given, the ring homomorphism is given by . (See also  below).

Every ring is an associative Z-algebra, where Z denotes the ring of the integers.

A  is an associative algebra that is also a commutative ring.

 As a monoid object in the category of modules 
The definition is equivalent to saying that a unital associative R-algebra is a monoid object in [[category of modules|R-Mod]] (the monoidal category of R-modules). By definition, a ring is a monoid object in the category of abelian groups; thus, the notion of an associative algebra is obtained by replacing the category of abelian groups with the category of modules.

Pushing this idea further, some authors have introduced a "generalized ring" as a monoid object in some other category that behaves like the category of modules. Indeed, this reinterpretation allows one to avoid making an explicit reference to elements of an algebra A. For example, the associativity can be expressed as follows. By the universal property of a tensor product of modules, the multiplication (the R-bilinear map) corresponds to a unique R-linear map
 .
The associativity then refers to the identity:
 

 From ring homomorphisms 
An associative algebra amounts to a ring homomorphism whose image lies in the center. Indeed, starting with a ring A and a ring homomorphism  whose image lies in the center of A, we can make A an R-algebra by defining
 
for all  and . If A is an R-algebra, taking , the same formula in turn defines a ring homomorphism  whose image lies in the center.

If a ring is commutative then it equals its center, so that a commutative R-algebra can be defined simply as a commutative ring A together with a commutative ring homomorphism .

The ring homomorphism η appearing in the above is often called a structure map. In the commutative case, one can consider the category whose objects are ring homomorphisms ; i.e., commutative R-algebras and whose morphisms are ring homomorphisms  that are under R; i.e.,  is  (i.e., the coslice category of the category of commutative rings under R.)  The prime spectrum functor Spec then determines an anti-equivalence of this category to the category of affine schemes over Spec R.

How to weaken the commutativity assumption is a subject matter of noncommutative algebraic geometry and, more recently, of derived algebraic geometry. See also: Generic matrix ring.

 Algebra homomorphisms 

A homomorphism between two R-algebras is an R-linear ring homomorphism. Explicitly,  is an associative algebra homomorphism if
 

The class of all R-algebras together with algebra homomorphisms between them form a category, sometimes denoted R-Alg.

The subcategory of commutative R-algebras can be characterized as the coslice category R/CRing where CRing is the category of commutative rings.

 Examples 

The most basic example is a ring itself; it is an algebra over its center or any subring lying in the center. In particular, any commutative ring is an algebra over any of its subrings. Other examples abound both from algebra and other fields of mathematics.

 Algebra 

 Any ring A can be considered as a Z-algebra. The unique ring homomorphism from Z to A is determined by the fact that it must send 1 to the identity in A. Therefore, rings and Z-algebras are equivalent concepts, in the same way that abelian groups and Z-modules are equivalent.
 Any ring of characteristic n is a (Z/nZ')-algebra in the same way.
 Given an R-module M, the endomorphism ring of M, denoted EndR(M) is an R-algebra by defining .
 Any ring of matrices with coefficients in a commutative ring R forms an R-algebra under matrix addition and multiplication. This coincides with the previous example when M is a finitely-generated, free R-module.
 In particular, the square n-by-n matrices with entries from the field K form an associative algebra over K.
 The complex numbers form a 2-dimensional commutative algebra over the real numbers.
 The quaternions form a 4-dimensional associative algebra over the reals (but not an algebra over the complex numbers, since the complex numbers are not in the center of the quaternions).
 Every polynomial ring  is a commutative R-algebra. In fact, this is the free commutative R-algebra on the set .
 The free R-algebra on a set E is an algebra of "polynomials" with coefficients in R and noncommuting indeterminates taken from the set E.
 The tensor algebra of an R-module is naturally an associative R-algebra. The same is true for quotients such as the exterior and symmetric algebras. Categorically speaking, the functor that maps an R-module to its tensor algebra is left adjoint to the functor that sends an R-algebra to its underlying R-module (forgetting the multiplicative structure).
 The following ring is used in the theory of λ-rings. Given a commutative ring A, let  the set of formal power series with constant term 1. It is an abelian group with the group operation that is the multiplication of power series. It is then a ring with the multiplication, denoted by , such that  determined by this condition and the ring axioms. The additive identity is 1 and the multiplicative identity is . Then A has a canonical structure of a G(A)-algebra given by the ring homomorphism

On the other hand, if A is a λ-ring, then there is a ring homomorphism

giving G(A) a structure of an A-algebra.
 Given a module M over a commutative ring R, the direct sum of modules  has a structure of an R-algebra by thinking M consists of infinitesimal elements; i.e., the multiplication is given as . The notion is sometimes called the algebra of dual numbers.
 A quasi-free algebra, introduced by Cuntz and Quillen, is a sort of generalization of a free algebra and a semisimple algebra over an algebraically closed field.

 Representation theory 

 The universal enveloping algebra of a Lie algebra is an associative algebra that can be used to study the given Lie algebra.
 If G is a group and R is a commutative ring, the set of all functions from G to R with finite support form an R-algebra with the convolution as multiplication. It is called the group algebra of G. The construction is the starting point for the application to the study of (discrete) groups.
 If G is an algebraic group (e.g., semisimple complex Lie group), then the coordinate ring of G is the Hopf algebra A corresponding to G. Many structures of G translate to those of A.
 A quiver algebra (or a path algebra) of a directed graph is the free associative algebra over a field generated by the paths in the graph.

 Analysis 

 Given any Banach space X, the continuous linear operators  form an associative algebra (using composition of operators as multiplication); this is a Banach algebra.
 Given any topological space X, the continuous real- or complex-valued functions on X form a real or complex associative algebra; here the functions are added and multiplied