[Euclid's Elements — Euclid — Gutenberg #5000]

copied them, omitting the inscription, added to the second impressions his own monogram. In his diary he designates them simply as "_Die sechs Knoten_" (see THAUSING, Life of A. Dürer I, 362, 363). In Leonardo's MSS. we find here and there little sketches or suggestions for similar ornaments. Compare too G. MONGERI, _L'Arte in Milano_, p. 315 where an ornament of the same character is given from the old decorations of the vaulted ceiling of the Sacristy of S. Maria delle Grazie.] [Footnote: 680, 17. The meaning in which the word _coppi_, literally pitchers, is here used I am unable to determine; but a change to _copie_ seems to me too doubtful to be risked.] 681. Stubborn rigour. Doomed rigour. [Footnote: See PI. LXII, No. 2, the two upper pen and ink drawings. The originals, in the Windsor collection are slightly washed with colour. The background is blue sky; the plough and the instrument with the compass are reddish brown, the sun is tinted yellow]. 682. Obstacles cannot crush me Every obstacle yields to stern resolve He who is fixed to a star does not change his mind. [Footnote: This text is written to elucidate two sketches which were obviously the first sketches for the drawings reproduced on PL LXII, No. 2.] 683. Ivy is [a type] of longevity. [Footnote: In the original there is, near this text, a sketch of a coat wreathed above the waist with ivy.] 684. Truth the sun. falsehood a mask. innocence, malignity. Fire destroys falsehood, that is sophistry, and restores truth, driving out darkness. Fire may be represented as the destroy of all sophistry, and as the image and demonstration of truth; because it is light and drives out darkness which conceals all essences [or subtle things]. [Footnote: See PI. LXIII. L. 1-8 are in the middle of the page; 1. 9-14 to the right below; 1. 15-22 below in the middle column. The rest of the text is below the sketches on the left. There are some other passages on this page relating to geometry.] TRUTH. Fire destroys all sophistry, that is deceit; and maintains truth alone, that is gold. Truth at last cannot be hidden. Dissimulation is of no avail. Dissimulation is to no purpose before so great a judge. Falsehood puts on a mask. Nothing is hidden under the sun. Fire is to represent truth because it destroys all sophistry and lies; and the mask is for lying and falsehood which conceal truth. 685. Movement will cease before we are weary of being useful. Movement will fail sooner than usefulness. Death sooner than I am never weary of weariness. being useful, In serving others I is a motto for carnval. cannot do enough. Without fatigue. No labour is sufficient to tire me. Hands into which ducats and precious stones fall like snow; they never become tired by serving, but this service is only for its utility and not for our I am never weary own benefit. of being useful. Naturally nature has so disposed me. 686. This shall be placed in the hand of Ingratitude. Wood nourishes the fire that consumes it. 687. TO REPRESENT INGRATITUDE. When the sun appears which dispels darkness in general, you put out the light which dispelled it for you in particular for your need and convenience. 688. On this side Adam and Eve on the other; O misery of mankind, of how many things do you make yourself the slave for money! [Footnote: See PI. LXIV. The figures of Adam and Eve in the clouds here alluded to would seem to symbolise their superiority to all earthly needs.] 689. Thus are base unions sundered. [Footnote: A much blurred sketch is on the page by this text. It seems to represent an unravelled plait or tissue.] 690. Constancy does not begin, but is that which perseveres. [Footnote: A drawing in red chalk, also rubbed, which stands in the original in the middle of this text, seems to me to be intended for a sword hilt, held in a fist.] 691. Love, Fear, and Esteem,-- Write these on three stones. Of servants. 692. Prudence Strength. 693. Fame alone raises herself to Heaven, because virtuous things are in favour with God. Disgrace should be represented upside down, because all her deeds are contrary to God and tend to hell. 694. Short liberty. 695. Nothing is so much to be feared as Evil Report. This Evil Report is born of life. 696. Not to disobey. 697. A felled tree which is shooting again. I am still hopeful. A falcon, Time. [Footnote: I. _Albero tagliato_. This emblem was displayed during the Carnival at Florence in 1513. See VASARI VI, 251, ed. MILANESI 1881. But the coincidence is probably accidental.] 698. Truth here makes Falsehood torment lying tongues. 699. Such as harm is when it hurts me not, is good which avails me not. [Footnote: See PI. LX, No. 2. Compare this sketch with that on PI. LXII, No. 2. Below the two lines of the text there are two more lines: _li gùchi (giunchi) che ritégò le paglucole (pagliucole) chelli (che li) anniegano_.] 700. He who offends others, does not secure himself. [Footnote: See PI. LX, No. 3.] 701. Ingratitude. [Footnote: See PI. LX, No. 4. Below the bottom sketches are the unintelligible words "_sta stilli_." For "_Ingratitudo_" compare also Nos. 686 and 687.] 702. One's thoughts turn towards Hope. [Footnote: 702. By the side of this passage is a sketch of a cage with a bird sitting in it.] Ornaments and Decorations for feasts (703-705). 703. A bird, for a comedy. [Footnote: The biographies say so much, and the author's notes say so little of the invention attributed to Leonardo of making artificial birds fly through the air, that the text here given is of exceptional interest from being accompanied by a sketch. It is a very slight drawing of a bird with outspread wings, which appears to be sliding down a stretched string. Leonardo's flying machines and his studies of the flight of birds will be referred to later.] 704. A DRESS FOR THE CARNIVAL. To make a beautiful dress cut it in thin cloth and give it an odoriferous varnish, made of oil of turpentine and of varnish in grain, with a pierced stencil, which must be wetted, that it may not stick to the cloth; and this stencil may be made in a pattern of knots which afterwards may be filled up with black and the ground with white millet.[Footnote 7: The grains of black and white millet would stick to the varnish and look like embroidery.] [Footnote: Ser Giuliano, da Vinci the painter's brother, had been commissioned, with some others, to order and to execute the garments of the Allegorical figures for the Carnival at Florence in 1515--16; VASARI however is incorrect in saying of the Florentine Carnival of 1513: "_equelli che feciono ed ordinarono gli abiti delle figure furono Ser Piero da Vinci, padre di Lonardo, e Bernardino di Giordano, bellissimi ingegni_" (See MILANESI'S ed. Voi. VI, pg. 251.)] 705. Snow taken from the high peaks of mountains might be carried to hot places and let to fall at festivals in open places at summer time. *** End of Volume 1 The Notebooks of Leonardo Da Vinci Volume 2 Translated by Jean Paul Richter 1888 XI. The notes on Sculpture. Compared with the mass of manuscript treating of Painting, a very small number of passages bearing on the practice and methods of Sculpture are to be found scattered through the note books; these are here given at the beginning of this section (Nos. 706-709). There is less cause for surprise at finding that the equestrian statue of Francesco Sforza is only incidentally spoken of; for, although Leonardo must have worked at it for a long succession of years, it is not in the nature of the case that it could have given rise to much writing. We may therefore regard it as particularly fortunate that no fewer than thirteen notes in the master's handwriting can be brought together, which seem to throw light on the mysterious history of this famous work. Until now writers on Leonardo were acquainted only with the passages numbered 712, 719, 720, 722 and 723. In arranging these notes on sculpture I have given the precedence to those which treat of the casting of the monument, not merely because they are the fullest, but more especially with a view to reconstructing the monument, an achievement which really almost lies within our reach by combining and comparing the whole of the materials now brought to light, alike in notes and in sketches. A good deal of the first two passages, Nos. 710 and 711, which refer to this subject seems obscure and incomprehensible; still, they supplement each other and one contributes in no small degree to the comprehension of the other. A very interesting and instructive commentary on these passages may be found in the fourth chapter of Vasari's Introduzione della Scultura under the title "Come si fanno i modelli per fare di bronzo le figure grandi e picciole, e come le forme per buttarle; come si armino di ferri, e come si gettino di metallo," &c. Among the drawings of models of the moulds for casting we find only one which seems to represent the horse in the act of galloping--No. 713. All the other designs show the horse as pacing quietly and as these studies of the horse are accompanied by copious notes as to the method of casting, the question as to the position of the horse in the model finally selected, seems to be decided by preponderating evidence. "Il cavallo dello Sforza"--C. Boito remarks very appositely in the Saggio on page 26, "doveva sembrare fratello al cavallo del Colleoni. E si direbbe che questo fosse figlio del cavallo del Gattamelata, il quale pare figlio di uno dei quattro cavalli che stavano forse sull' Arco di Nerone in Roma" (now at Venice). The publication of the Saggio also contains the reproduction of a drawing in red chalk, representing a horse walking to the left and supported by a scaffolding, given here on Pl. LXXVI, No. 1. It must remain uncertain whether this represents the model as it stood during the preparations for casting it, or whether--as seems to me highly improbable--this sketch shows the model as it was exhibited in 1493 on the Piazza del Castello in Milan under a triumphal arch, on the occasion of the marriage of the Emperor Maximilian to Bianca Maria Sforza. The only important point here is to prove that strong evidence seems to show that, of the numerous studies for the equestrian statue, only those which represent the horse pacing agree with the schemes of the final plans. The second group of