ME Research Paper

Title: Nanomaterial by Sol‐Gel Method: Synthesis and Application

Abstract:
The sol‐gel process is a more chemical method (wet chemical method) for the synthesis of various nanostructures, especially metal oxide nanoparticles. In this method, the molecular precursor (usually metal alkoxide) is dissolved in water or alcohol and converted to gel by heating and stirring by hydrolysis/alcoholysis. Since the gel obtained from the hydrolysis/alcoholysis process is wet or damp, it should be dried using appropriate methods depending on the desired properties and application of the gel. For example, if it is an alcoholic solution, the drying process is done by burning alcohol. After the drying stage, the produced gels are powdered and then calcined. The sol‐gel method is a cost‐effective method and due to the low reaction temperature there is good control over the chemical composition of the products. The sol‐gel method can be used in the process of making ceramics as a molding material and can be used as an intermediate between thin films of metal oxides in various applications. The materials obtained from the sol‐gel method are used in various optical, electronic, energy, surface engineering, biosensors, and pharmaceutical and separation technologies (such as chromatography). The sol‐gel method is a conventional and industrial method for the synthesis of nanoparticles with different chemical composition. The basis of the sol‐gel method is the production of a homogeneous sol from the precursors and its conversion into a gel. The solvent in the gel is then removed from the gel structure and the remaining gel is dried. The properties of the dried gel depend significantly on the drying method. In other words, the “removing solvent method” is selected according to the application in which the gel will be used. Dried gels in various ways are used in industries such as surface coating, building insulation, and the production of special clothing. It is worth mentioning that, by grinding the gel by special mills, it is possible to achieve nanoparticles.