# Strada

Various Eateries Trading Limited, trading as Strada, is a chain based in the United Kingdom of branded restaurants specialising in Italian cuisine with two Strada sites and six Coppa Clubs, all in Southern England.

History
The concept was spawned by Luke Johnson in 2000 and, over five years, expanded to thirty restaurants. In September 2005, Richard Caring bought the chain from Johnson for £60m.

During this period of ownership, twenty more restaurants were added to the chain and, in May 2007 they, along with five Belgo and Bierodrome restaurants, were acquired by Tragus Group Ltd for £140m, owner of the brands Cafe Rouge, Bella Italia, Potters Bar & Kitchen and Huxleys.

In September 2012, Strada joined the Nectar loyalty card reward scheme as a redemption partner. In July 2013, Strada began a partnership with the Gourmet Society, offering their members discounts on production of a Gourmet Society restaurant discount card.

In September 2014, forty three of Strada restaurants were bought by Hugh Osmond's Sun Capital Partners from Tragus Group (renamed Casual Dining Group) for £37m, retaining their existing management team, led by James Spragg. In 2017, over twenty restaurants closed, in turn, many other branded restaurant companies also closed many sites in 2017 and 2018.

As of  , Strada has two Strada sites and six Coppa club sites (with two sites of Strada turning into one Coppa Club).

Charity
In March 2013, Strada were official partners of Comic Relief, the British charity founded in 1985 that aims to "bring about positive and lasting change in the lives of poor and disadvantaged people."

Tipping and minimum wage
In June 2009, the company was found to be threatening to dismiss wait staff, who do not get customers to pay tips on credit cards rather than in cash. Credit card tips were used by the company to subsidise wages (which are usually the legal minimum) whereas cash tips go directly to wait staff.

In line with changes to tipping legislation, which came into effect on 1 October 2009, Tragus Ltd. reviewed and updated its policies to ensure that all tips, after a 10% deduction for administrative and other costs paid by credit or debit card, are now distributed through the payroll system to restaurant staff. All Tragus Group employees are now paid tips in addition to the National Minimum Wage.

See also
 Bella Italia
 Café Rouge
 Belgo

References

External links

2000 establishments in England
British companies established in 2000
Companies based in the City of Westminster
Italian restaurants in the United Kingdom
Pizza chains of the United Kingdom
Restaurant groups in the United Kingdom
Restaurants established in 2000