# Agnieszka Radwańska

Agnieszka Roma Radwańska (; born 6 March 1989) is a Polish former professional tennis player. She won 20 career singles WTA Tour titles, two doubles titles, and achieved a career-high singles ranking of world No. 2 on 9 July 2012. Her achievements include winning the season-ending 2015 WTA Finals, the Women's Tennis Association (WTA) Fan Favourite Award six times, Shot of the Year five times, and Shot of the Month on a regular basis.

Radwańska holds a number of tennis accolades. She is the first Polish player in the Open Era to reach a major singles final (at the 2012 Wimbledon Championships), the first to win the WTA Finals (in 2015), the first to claim a WTA Tour singles title (the 2007 Nordic Light Open), and was part of the first Polish team to win the Hopman Cup in 2015. In addition, she won the WTA award for Most Impressive Newcomer in 2006, and finished with a top 10 year-end ranking eight times (including six consecutive times from 2011 to 2016). Radwańska is widely considered one of the best tennis players to have never won a major; her accomplishments among Polish players have only recently been surpassed by those of Iga Świątek.

Radwańska was voted the WTA's Fan Favorite Singles Player for six consecutive years (2011–2016), the most of any player, in polls held by WTATennis.com. Radwańska also won WTA's Fan Favorite Shot of the Year for five consecutive years (2013–2017). For her accomplishments in sport and for representing her country with distinction, in 2013 she was awarded the Gold Cross of Merit by Polish President Bronisław Komorowski. On 14 November 2018, Radwańska announced her retirement from professional tennis at the age of 29.

Personal life

Born in Kraków to Robert Radwański, and his wife, Marta, Radwańska began playing tennis at the age of four after her father introduced her to the sport. Her younger sister, Urszula, is also a tennis player. Radwańska named Pete Sampras and Martina Hingis as inspirations. In 2009, Radwańska became a WTA ambassador for Habitat for Humanity. She has also studied tourism at universities in Kraków.

Radwańska is a practising Roman Catholic, and she took part in the Catholic campaign in her native country "" ("I'm not ashamed of Jesus!"). She released a video for the campaign in which she urged her fans to "not be ashamed of believing" and arranged her tennis balls so they would read "JEZUS" ("JESUS"). In the summer of 2013, she was disqualified from this campaign after posing nude for ESPN magazine'''s The Body Issue.

According to Forbes in 2012 she was the ninth-highest-earning female athlete in the world.

In 2016, Radwańska got engaged to Dawid Celt, a Polish former tennis player who was also her hitting partner, and current coach of Top 50 player Magda Linette. Their engagement was accidentally revealed by her friend, Caroline Wozniacki, on 7 September 2016. On 22 July 2017, they married surrounded by family, friends and her WTA and ATP peers. In attendance were Aga's younger sister Urszula, Angelique Kerber, Caroline Wozniacki, former Polish No. 1 Marta Domachowska, Alicja Rosolska, Katarzyna Piter, Wimbledon doubles Champion Łukasz Kubot, Mariusz Fyrstenberg, Marcin Matkowski and also former Wimbledon semifinalist Jerzy Janowicz. The wedding ceremony took place at the Church of St Michael the Archangel and St Stanislaus Bishop and Martyr, Pauline Fathers Monastery, Skałka, in Kraków, Poland, where Radwańska was baptized.

In March 2019, Radwańska partnered with Italian professional dancer Stefano Terrazzino to participate in the next edition of Dancing with the Stars: Taniec z gwiazdami. It is the Polish version of the BBC's popular Dancing with the Stars/Strictly Come Dancing franchise, which has been sold to more than 40 countries worldwide. Aga donated her prize money from Taniec z Gwiazdami (season 22) to UNICEF charity.

In January 2020, Radwańska announced that she was pregnant with her first child. Shortly after celebrating her third wedding anniversary, Radwańska had her first child, a son.

Career
2005–2006: Junior years
Radwańska won the junior singles title at Wimbledon in 2005, defeating Tamira Paszek. She went on to win the French Open junior title in 2006 with a victory over Anastasia Pavlyuchenkova. She played her first WTA tournament at the 2006 J&S Cup (later known as the Warsaw Open), defeating Anastasia Myskina in her opening match. She advanced to the quarterfinals, where she lost to Elena Dementieva in three sets.

At the 2006 Wimbledon Championships, she lost in the fourth round to Kim Clijsters. She went on to drop a second-round match to Tatiana Golovin at the US Open. At the Fortis Championships Luxembourg tournament, Radwańska lost in the semifinals to Francesca Schiavone after defeating former world No. 1, Venus Williams, in the second round, and Dementieva in the quarterfinals.

Junior Grand Slam finals
Singles: 2 (2 titles)

Doubles: 1 (runner-up)

2007–2008: First WTA Tour title and breakthrough

Radwańska participated at the 2007 Australian Open, where she lost to Ana Ivanovic in the second round. At the Sony Ericsson Open, Radwańska defeated her longtime idol, Martina Hingis, in a three-set third-round match. She exited in the fourth round following a loss to Tathiana Garbin.

In August 2007, Radwańska became the first Polish player to claim a WTA tour singles title, defeating Vera Dushevina in the final of the Nordic Light Open. She went on to defeat defending champion Maria Sharapova in the third round of the US Open, before losing to Israeli Shahar Pe'er in the fourth round.

She reached the quarterfinals of the 2008 Australian Open, upsetting world No. 2 Svetlana Kuznetsova in the third round, then following it up with a defeat of 14th seeded Nadia Petrova before eventually falling to Daniela Hantuchová. At the Thailand Open, Radwańska won her second WTA singles title, beating Jill Craybas in the final. At the Qatar Ladies Open, Radwańska reached the semifinals, losing to eventual champion Maria Sharapova.

On grass, Radwańska won the Eastbourne International, defeating Nadia Petrova in the final. At Wimbledon, she defeated Kuznetsova in the fourth round, then lost to Serena Williams in the quarterfinals. At the Olympics in Beijing, Radwańska lost a second-round match to Francesca Schiavone. She went on to reach the fourth round of the US Open, losing to Venus Williams. She later went to the Tour Championships as an alternate and replaced Ana Ivanovic after the latter withdrew. She defeated Svetlana Kuznetsova in straight sets. Radwańska ended the year as the first Polish woman to surpass  in career prize money, as well as the first to be ranked world No. 10.

2009–2010: Top 10

Radwańska reached the quarterfinals of the Sydney International, losing in three sets to eventual champion Elena Dementieva. She was defeated in the first round of the Australian Open by Kateryna Bondarenko.

She reached her first semifinal of the 2009 season in Tokyo, where she fell in three sets to eventual champion Maria Sharapova. She reached her first final of the year in China, losing in straight sets to Svetlana Kuznetsova.

Radwańska and her doubles partner Maria Kirilenko reached the semifinals of the 2010 Australian Open, losing to the world No. 1 pairing of Cara Black and Liezel Huber in three sets. In Indian Wells, Radwańska won her fifth straight match against Marion Bartoli, and went on to upset Elena Dementieva in the quarterfinals before losing to Caroline Wozniacki in the semifinals. Radwańska entered the 2010 Sony Ericsson Open, where she was defeated in the quarterfinals by Venus Williams. At Wimbledon, she was defeated in the fourth round by Li Na, whom she had beaten at the same stage the previous year.

Radwańska reached the final of the Southern California Open in San Diego, falling to Svetlana Kuznetsova. Due to a stress fracture in her foot, Radwańska's 2010 season ended at the China Open, where she lost a three-set match to Angelique Kerber.

2011: Asian double in Tokyo and Beijing
Radwańska reached the quarterfinals of the Australian Open, losing to eventual champion Kim Clijsters. She went on to reach the fourth round in Indian Wells, where she lost to Victoria Azarenka, and the quarterfinals in Miami, losing to Vera Zvonareva. However, she won the Miami doubles title with Daniela Hantuchová, defeating Nadia Petrova and Liezel Huber. She went on to reach the fourth round of the French Open, losing to Maria Sharapova.

Radwańska suffered her earliest ever exit at Wimbledon, when she was defeated in the second round by Czech qualifier Petra Cetkovská. At the San Jose Open, Radwańska advanced to the final and defeated rival Vera Zvonareva, in straight sets. With the victory, she earned her first title since winning in Eastbourne in 2008. At the Rogers Cup in Toronto, she once again defeated Zvonareva in the third round, coming back from a 0–4 deficit in the second set. She went on to lose a three-set semifinal match against Sama