# Gamma process

Also known as the (Moran-)Gamma Process, the gamma process is a random process studied in mathematics, statistics, probability theory, and stochastics. The gamma process is a stochastic or random process consisting of independently distributed gamma distributions where  represents the number of event occurrences from time 0 to time . The gamma distribution has scale parameter  and shape parameter , often written as . Both  and  must be greater than 0. The gamma process is often written as  where  represents the time from 0. The process is a pure-jump increasing Lévy process with intensity measure  for all positive . Thus jumps whose size lies in the interval  occur as a Poisson process with intensity  The parameter  controls the rate of jump arrivals and the scaling parameter  inversely controls the jump size. It is assumed that the process starts from a value 0 at t = 0 meaning .  

The gamma process is sometimes also parameterised in terms of the mean () and variance () of the increase per unit time, which is equivalent to  and .

Plain English definition 
The gamma process is a process which measures the number of occurrences of independent gamma-distributed variables over a span of time. This image below displays two different gamma processes on from time 0 until time 4. The red process has more occurrences in the timeframe compared to the blue process because its shape parameter is larger than the blue shape parameter.

Properties

We use the Gamma function in these properties, so the reader should distinguish between  (the Gamma function) and   (the Gamma process). We will sometimes abbreviate the process as .

Some basic properties of the gamma process are:

Marginal distribution 
The marginal distribution of a gamma process at time  is a gamma distribution with mean  and variance 

That is, the probability distribution  of the random variable  is given by the density

Scaling 
Multiplication of a gamma process by a scalar constant  is again a gamma process with different mean increase rate.

Adding independent processes 
The sum of two independent gamma processes is again a gamma process.

Moments 
The moment function helps mathematicians find expected values, variances, skewness, and kurtosis.
   where  is the Gamma function.

Moment generating function 
The moment generating function is the expected value of  where X is the random variable.

Correlation 
Correlation displays the statistical relationship between any two gamma processes.  
, for any gamma process 

The gamma process is used as the distribution for random time change in the variance gamma process.

Literature 

 Lévy Processes and Stochastic Calculus by David Applebaum, CUP 2004, .

References 

Lévy processes