# Discrete Poisson equation

In mathematics, the discrete Poisson equation is the finite difference analog of the Poisson equation. In it, the discrete Laplace operator takes the place of the Laplace operator. The discrete Poisson equation is frequently used in numerical analysis as a stand-in for the continuous Poisson equation, although it is also studied in its own right as a topic in discrete mathematics.

On a two-dimensional rectangular grid
Using the finite difference numerical method to discretize
the 2-dimensional Poisson equation (assuming a uniform spatial discretization, ) on an  grid gives the following formula:

where  and .  The preferred arrangement of the solution vector is to use natural ordering which, prior to removing boundary elements, would look like:

This will result in an  linear system:

where

 is the  identity matrix, and , also , is given by:

and  is defined by

For each  equation, the columns of  correspond to a block of  components in :

while the columns of  to the left and right of  each correspond to other blocks of  components within :

and

respectively.

From the above, it can be inferred that there are  block columns of  in .  It is important to note that prescribed values of  (usually lying on the boundary) would have their corresponding elements removed from  and .  For the common case that all the nodes on the boundary are set, we have  and , and the system would have the dimensions , where  and  would have dimensions .

Example 

For a 3×3 (  and  ) grid with all the boundary nodes prescribed, the system would look like:

with

and

As can be seen, the boundary 's are brought to the right-hand-side of the equation. The entire system is  while  and  are  and given by:

and

Methods of solution 

Because  is block tridiagonal and sparse, many methods of solution
have been developed to optimally solve this linear system for .
Among the methods are a generalized Thomas algorithm with a resulting computational complexity of , cyclic reduction, successive overrelaxation that has a complexity of , and Fast Fourier transforms which is . An optimal  solution can also be computed using multigrid methods.

Applications 

In computational fluid dynamics, for the solution of an incompressible flow problem, the incompressibility condition acts as a constraint for the pressure. There is no explicit form available for pressure in this case due to a strong coupling of the velocity and pressure fields. In this condition, by taking the divergence of all terms in the momentum equation, one obtains the pressure poisson equation.

For an incompressible flow this constraint is given by:

where  is the velocity in the  direction,  is velocity in  and  is the velocity in the  direction. Taking divergence of the momentum equation and using the incompressibility constraint, the pressure Poisson equation is formed given by:

where  is the kinematic viscosity of the fluid and  is the velocity vector.

The discrete Poisson's equation arises in the theory of Markov chains. It appears as the relative value function for the dynamic programming equation in a Markov decision process, and as the control variate for application in simulation variance reduction.

Footnotes

References
Hoffman, Joe D.,  Numerical Methods for Engineers and Scientists, 4th Ed., McGraw–Hill Inc., New York, 1992.
Sweet, Roland A.,  SIAM Journal on Numerical Analysis, Vol. 11, No. 3 , June 1974, 506–520.

Finite differences
Numerical differential equations