# Yuri Linnik

Yuri Vladimirovich Linnik (; January 8, 1915 – June 30, 1972) was a Soviet mathematician active in number theory, probability theory and mathematical statistics.

Biography 
Linnik was born in Bila Tserkva, in present-day Ukraine. He went to Saint Petersburg University where his supervisor was Vladimir Tartakovsky, and later worked at that university and the Steklov Institute. He was a member of the Academy of Sciences of the Soviet Union, as was his father, Vladimir Pavlovich Linnik. He was awarded both Stalin and Lenin Prizes. He died in Leningrad.

Work in number theory

 Linnik's theorem in analytic number theory
 The dispersion method (which allowed him to solve the Titchmarsh problem).
 The large sieve (which turned out to be extremely influential).
 An elementary proof of the Hilbert-Waring theorem; see also Schnirelmann density.
 The Linnik ergodic method, see , which allowed him to study the distribution properties of the representations of integers by integral ternary quadratic forms.

Work in probability theory and statistics

Infinitely divisible distributions

Linnik obtained numerous results concerning infinitely divisible distributions. In particular, he proved the following generalisation of Cramér's theorem: any divisor of a convolution of Gaussian and Poisson random variables is also a convolution of Gaussian and Poisson.

He has also coauthored the book  on the arithmetics of infinitely divisible distributions.

Central limit theorem
 Linnik zones (zones of asymptotic normality)
 Information-theoretic proof of the central limit theorem

Statistics
 Behrens–Fisher problem

Selected publications

Notes

External links

Acta Arithmetica: Linnik memorial issue (1975)
List of books by Linnik provided by National Library of Australia

1915 births
1972 deaths
20th-century Russian mathematicians
People from Bila Tserkva
Full Members of the USSR Academy of Sciences
Members of the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences
Saint Petersburg State University alumni
Heroes of Socialist Labour
Recipients of the Stalin Prize
Recipients of the Lenin Prize
Recipients of the Order of the Badge of Honour
Recipients of the Order of Lenin
Recipients of the Order of the Red Banner of Labour
Mathematical statisticians
Number theorists
Russian statisticians
Soviet mathematicians
Russian scientists