# Pathwidth

In graph theory, a path decomposition of a graph  is, informally, a representation of  as a "thickened" path graph, and the pathwidth of  is a number that measures how much the path was thickened to form . More formally, a path-decomposition is a sequence of subsets of vertices of  such that the endpoints of each edge appear in one of the subsets and such that each vertex appears in a contiguous subsequence of the subsets, and the pathwidth is one less than the size of the largest set in such a decomposition.
Pathwidth is also known as interval thickness (one less than the maximum clique size in an interval supergraph of ), vertex separation number, or node searching number.

Pathwidth and path-decompositions are closely analogous to treewidth and tree decompositions. They play a key role in the theory of graph minors: the families of graphs that are closed under graph minors and do not include all forests may be characterized as having bounded pathwidth, and the "vortices" appearing in the general structure theory for minor-closed graph families have bounded pathwidth. Pathwidth, and graphs of bounded pathwidth, also have applications in VLSI design, graph drawing, and computational linguistics.

It is NP-hard to find the pathwidth of arbitrary graphs, or even to approximate it accurately. However, the problem is fixed-parameter tractable: testing whether a graph has pathwidth  can be solved in an amount of time that depends linearly on the size of the graph but superexponentially on . Additionally, for several special classes of graphs, such as trees, the pathwidth may be computed in polynomial time without dependence on .
Many problems in graph algorithms may be solved efficiently on graphs of bounded pathwidth, by using dynamic programming on a path-decomposition of the graph. Path decomposition may also be used to measure the space complexity of dynamic programming algorithms on graphs of bounded treewidth.

Definition

In the first of their famous series of papers on graph minors,  define a path-decomposition of a graph  to be a sequence of subsets  of vertices of , with two properties:
For each edge of , there exists an  such that both endpoints of the edge belong to subset , and
For every three indices , 
The second of these two properties is equivalent to requiring that the subsets containing any particular vertex form a contiguous subsequence of the whole sequence. In the language of the later papers in Robertson and Seymour's graph minor series, a path-decomposition is a tree decomposition  in which the underlying tree  of the decomposition is a path graph.

The width of a path-decomposition is defined in the same way as for tree-decompositions, as , and the pathwidth of  is the minimum width of any path-decomposition of . The subtraction of one from the size of  in this definition makes little difference in most applications of pathwidth, but is used to make the pathwidth of a path graph be equal to one.

Alternative characterizations
As  describes, pathwidth can be characterized in many equivalent ways.

Gluing sequences
A path decomposition can be described as a sequence of graphs  that are glued together by identifying pairs of vertices from consecutive graphs in the sequence, such that the result of performing all of these gluings is . The graphs  may be taken as the induced subgraphs of the sets  in the first definition of path decompositions, with two vertices in successive induced subgraphs being glued together when they are induced by the same vertex in , and in the other direction one may recover the sets  as the vertex sets of the graphs . The width of the path decomposition is then one less than the maximum number of vertices in one of the graphs .

Interval thickness

The pathwidth of any graph  is equal to one less than the smallest clique number of an interval graph that contains  as a subgraph. That is, for every path decomposition of  one can find an interval supergraph of , and for every interval supergraph of  one can find a path decomposition of , such that the width of the decomposition is one less than the clique number of the interval graph.

In one direction, suppose a path decomposition of  is given. Then one may represent the nodes of the decomposition as points on a line (in path order) and represent each vertex  as a closed interval having these points as endpoints. In this way, the path decomposition nodes containing  correspond to the representative points in the interval for . The intersection graph of the intervals formed from the vertices of  is an interval graph that contains  as a subgraph. Its maximal cliques are given by the sets of intervals containing the representative points, and its maximum clique size is one plus the pathwidth of .

In the other direction, if  is a subgraph of an interval graph with clique number , then  has a path decomposition of width  whose nodes are given by the maximal cliques of the interval graph. For instance, the interval graph shown with its interval representation in the figure has a path decomposition with five nodes, corresponding to its five maximal cliques , , , , and ; the maximum clique size is three and the width of this path decomposition is two.

This equivalence between pathwidth and interval thickness is closely analogous to the equivalence between treewidth and the minimum clique number (minus one) of a chordal graph of which the given graph is a subgraph. Interval graphs are a special case of chordal graphs, and chordal graphs can be represented as intersection graphs of subtrees of a common tree generalizing the way that interval graphs are intersection graphs of subpaths of a path.

Vertex separation number
Suppose that the vertices of a graph  are linearly ordered. Then the vertex separation number of  is the smallest number  such that, for each vertex , at most  vertices are earlier than  in the ordering but that have  or a later vertex as a neighbor.
The vertex separation number of  is the minimum vertex separation number of any linear ordering of . The vertex separation number was defined by , and is equal to the pathwidth of .
This follows from the earlier equivalence with interval graph clique numbers: if  is a subgraph of an interval graph , represented (as in the figure) in such a way that all interval endpoints are distinct, then the ordering of the left endpoints of the intervals of  has vertex separation number one less than the clique number of . And in the other direction, from a linear ordering of  one may derive an interval representation in which the left endpoint of the interval for a vertex  is its position in the ordering and the right endpoint is the position of the neighbor of  that comes last in the ordering.

Node searching number
The node searching game on a graph is a form of pursuit–evasion in which a set of searchers collaborate to track down a fugitive hiding in a graph. The searchers are placed on vertices of the graph while the fugitive may be in any edge of the graph, and the fugitive's location and moves are hidden from the searchers. In each turn, some or all of the searchers may move (arbitrarily, not necessarily along edges) from one vertex to another, and then the fugitive may move along any path in the graph that does not pass through a searcher-occupied vertex. The fugitive is caught when both endpoints of his edge are occupied by searchers. The node searching number of a graph is the minimum number of searchers needed to ensure that the fugitive can be guaranteed to be caught, no matter how he moves. As  show, the node searching number of a graph equals its interval thickness. The optimal strategy for the searchers is to move the searchers so that in successive turns they form the separating sets of a linear ordering with minimal vertex separation number.

Bounds

Every -vertex graph with pathwidth  has at most  edges, and the maximal pathwidth- graphs (graphs to which no more edges can be added without increasing the pathwidth) have exactly this many edges. A maximal pathwidth- graph must be either a -path or a -caterpillar, two special kinds of -tree. A -tree is a chordal graph with exactly  maximal cliques, each containing  vertices; in a -tree that is not itself a -clique, each maximal clique either separates the graph into two or more components, or it contains a single leaf vertex, a vertex that belongs to only a single maximal clique. A -path is a -tree with at most two leaves, and a -caterpillar is a -tree that can be partitioned into a -path and a set of -leaves each adjacent to a separator -clique of the -path. In particular the maximal graphs of pathwidth one are exactly the caterpillar trees.

Since path-decompositions are a special case of tree-decompositions, the pathwidth of any graph is greater than or equal to its treewidth. The pathwidth is also less than or equal to the cutwidth, the minimum number of edges that cross any cut between lower-numbered and higher-numbered vertice