# Nikolas Cassadine

Nikolas Cassadine is a fictional character from General Hospital, an American soap opera on the ABC network. Originated by actor Tyler Christopher in 1996, he left the show on July 14, 1999. Due to Nikolas' importance on the soap, he was immediately replaced by Coltin Scott on July 20, 1999. Scott left the role on April 16, 2003, as Christopher made his return on April 21, 2003. Chris Beetem temporarily played the role in 2005. Christopher vacated the role on July 28, 2011, after he was let go from the series. Christopher once again reprised the role on a recurring basis in honor of the soaps' fiftieth anniversary; he was later upgraded to a series regular. Actor Nick Stabile took claim of the role in June 2016 in Christopher's absence. In 2019, Marcus Coloma was cast in the role as a series regular, with Adam Huss temporarily stepping in 2021–2023. Coloma departed in January 2023. In August 2023, Huss returned to the role.

Created by head-writers Robert Guza, Jr. and Karen Harris and introduced by executive producer Wendy Riche in 1996 as the illegitimate son of Laura Spencer, the character was immediately popular with audiences. Hailed by Soap Opera Digest as the "Best New Male Character" in 1996, Nikolas's arrival immediately implodes the happy life of supercouple Luke and Laura.

Casting

The role was originated by daytime newcomer, Tyler Christopher then known as Tyler Baker on July 15, 1996. Christopher tried to audition for the role of Stone Cates in 1993 but was turned away. In April 1996, Christopher was one of several actors to audition for casting director Mark Teschner. Christopher hired an acting coach to prepare him for the audition and worked regularly with General Hospital's onset acting coach, John Homa. In June 1996, Christopher received a call back to read for executive producer Wendy Riche and was later brought back to screen test with several actors, including Stephen Nichols, who would play Stefan. Christopher was hired two days later, signed a three-year contract, and filmed his first scenes in late June 1996. In May 1999, rumors circulated that Christopher would not renew his contract which was set to expire in June. The series had also put out a casting call for an actor similar to Christopher which meant he could potentially be replaced. By the time of Christopher's departure, Nikolas had become integral to the series, a recast was very much needed, and Christopher was immediately replaced by Coltin Scott. Of his casting, Scott said that viewers didn't have any warning. "Tyler was there Monday, and I came in on Tuesday" he said. Though inexperienced, Scott was immediately put to the test opposite Nichols, Geary, and Francis so he got "very comfortable very quickly." After a year without finding work, Scott's mother wanted him to come home. And he promised her he would if he didn't get a job in six months. Scott booked the role of Nikolas six months to the day of his promise to his mother. In late March 2003, Scott would vacate the role in the summer of 2003 after failed contract negotiations. According to his official website, Scott was very upset by the decisions made. At the same time, Christopher also became available and it was an opportunity the series couldn't pass up, revealed executive producer, Jill Farren Phelps. In November 2005, Tyler Christopher underwent surgery for a broken arm and Chris Beetem served as a temporary recast starting on December 6 and lasting five episodes.

In March 2011, Soap Opera Digest reported that Christopher had been let go from the series as he would soon appear on ABC Family's The Lying Game produced by former GH head writer Charles Pratt, Jr. Christopher confirmed the news to Soaps in Depth that he had been released from his contract on Friday March 18, 2011, and the character of Nikolas was to be written out. Christopher's contract was set to expire in June and the date would have marked the beginning of the last 13-week-cycle period in his deal—at which time the network would notify the actor of their decision to offer another contract. While Christopher had previously admitted he was unsure about renewing his contract, he was open to working both shows and thought it was a likely possibility considering they were both under ABC. On-Air On-Soaps also revealed that "cost cutting measures GH" also factored into the decision. "I haven't had time to absorb it. It was pretty unexpected. I didn't really see it coming" the actor said of his firing. In an interview with Soap Opera Digest, Tyler Christopher made it very clear that he was fired from the series and that his recurring role on The Lying Game did not factor into the decision. "I was trying to stay on GH, however that worked out financially" Christopher explained of his expecting to take a pay cut. However, the actor was instead told that a "pay cut was not an option," though it was an option for others. The actor was angry over the decision and said "I felt like I earned my spot as a permanent fixture on the show." Christopher filmed his last scenes on May 20, 2011 and last appeared in June. Christoper revealed that things felt awkward on his last day because "nobody really knew what to say to me." While the manner in which the situation was handled gave Christopher a "bad taste in my mouth," the actor had already agreed to a three episode return stint under newly appointed head writer Garin Wolf by the time his final scenes aired. Those scenes would air in late July 2011.

In January 2013, executive producer Frank Valentini revealed he had met with Christopher about potentially reprising the role of Nikolas in celebration of show's 50th anniversary. In February 2013, Christopher's co-star Nancy Lee Grahn—who played Alexis Davis—revealed that Christopher had been on set. However, there was speculation that Christopher's return was supposed to be a surprise because there was no prior announcement from the network. Christopher himself announced his return on Twitter a month later and reappeared on March 22. "It's an absolute honor" Christopher said of being included in the 50th anniversary storylines. Though the possibility of his return had always been a thought, the actor did not expect anything to come of it. Valentini told Christopher his return would be open ended while the actor awaited news on production for The Lying Game. While renewal of The Lying Game was stalled, Christopher revealed that he would remain with the series longer than planned. Soap Opera Digest announced in June 2013 that Christopher had been placed on contract. In the summer of 2014, Christopher revealed that he would be going on a four-month-long road trip with his family leading to immediate speculation that he would be off screen for the duration and would not affect his airtime. Head writer Ron Carlivati quickly clarified that Christopher's trip would occur during the weeks in which the show went on hiatus.

In May 2016, actor Nick Stabile was temporarily cast in the role of Nikolas, with Christopher being unavailable, for an undisclosed amount of time. Stabile's tenure began on June 17, 2016 and ended on July 19, 2016. In September 2016, Soap Opera Digest reported that contract negotiations between Christopher and the soap had fallen apart, and that he would not be reprising his portrayal of Nikolas. Christopher made his last appearance on June 16, 2016. In 2019, actor Marcus Coloma was cast in the role of Nikolas; he made his first appearance during the October 31, 2019, episode.

On September 29, 2021, Adam Huss portrayed the role of Nikolas, when Coloma was unavailable. In November of the following year, Huss once again stepped into the role, following Coloma testing positive for COVID-19. The following month, after three years on canvas, it was announced Coloma had been let go from the role and he would last appear at the end of January 2023. Daytime Confidential reported Coloma had allegedly refused to tape his final scenes upon learning of his dismissal. In a statement to Deadline Hollywood, a representative for Coloma refuted Daytime Confidentials claims, citing Coloma did not complete filming "due to health issues with his recent Covid exposure" and that "the network graciously agreed that he should not film the remaining few days of the year." Coloma made his last appearance on January 26. Huss assumed the role on January 31, to complete scenes Coloma was unable to film. On March 1, 2023, Huss wrapped his stint as Nikolas. Huss returned during the final moments of the August 31 episode.

Development

Characterization

According to Christopher, Nikolas is initially introduced as a "self-assured" teen who comes from money. While he immediately causes trouble, he is not a "villain" but he is "misguided" due to growing up without his parents. Christopher believed the character could go in any direction. In his early years, Nikolas is very "conflicted" and has a certain "sneer" about him but a "sympathy" that can win anyone