[Euclid's Elements — Euclid — Gutenberg #5000]

best will be most beaten, and their offspring taken and flayed or peeled, and their bones broken or crushed. *( Of Sculpture. )* Alas! what do I see? The Saviour cru- cified anew. *( Of the Mouth of Man, which is a Sepulchre. )* Great noise will issue from the sepulchres of those who died evil and violent deaths. *( Of the Skins of Animals which have the sense of feeling what is in the things written. )* The more you converse with skins covered with sentiments, the more wisdom will* you acquire. *( Of Priests who bear the Host in their body. )* Then almost all the tabernacles in which dwells the Corpus Domini, will be plainly seen walking about of themselves on the various roads of the world. 1304. And those who feed on grass will turn night into day *( Tallow. )* And many creatures of land and water will go up among the stars *( that is Planets.)* The dead will be seen carrying the living *( in Carts and Ships in various places. )* Food shall be taken out of the mouth of many *( the oven's mouth. )* And those which will have their food in their mouth will be deprived of it by the hands of others *( the oven. )* 1305. *( Of Crucifixes which are sold. )* I see Christ sold and crucified afresh, and his Saints suffering Martyrdom. *( Of Physicians, who live by sickness. )* Men will come into so wretched a plight that they will be glad that others will derive profit from their sufferings or from the loss of their real wealth, that is health. *( Of the Religion of Friars, who live by the Saints who have been dead a great while. )* Those who are dead will, after a thou- sand years be those who will give a livelihood to many who are living. *( Of Stones converted into Lime, with which prison walls are made. )* Many things that have been before that time destroyed by fire will deprive many men of liberty. I.2 19a] 1306. *( Of Children who are suckled. )* Many Franciscans, Dominicans and Benedictines will eat that which at other times was eaten by others, who for some months to come will not be able to speak. *( Of Cockles and Sea Snails which are thrown up by the sea and which rot inside their shells. )* How many will there be who, after they are dead, will putrefy inside their own houses, filling all the surrounding air with a fetid smell. 1307. *( Of Mules which have on them rich burdens of silver and gold. )* Much treasure and great riches will be laid upon four-footed beasts, which will convey them to divers places. 1308. *( Of the Shadow cast by a man at night with a light. )* Huge figures will appear in human shape, and the nearer you get to them, the more will their immense size diminish. [Footnote page 1307: It seems to me probable that this note, which occurs in the note book used in 1502, when Leonardo, in the service of Cesare Borgia, visited Urbino, was suggested by the famous pillage of the riches of the palace of Guidobaldo, whose treasures Cesare Borgia at once had carried to Cesena (see GREGOROVIUS, _Geschichte der Stadt Rom im Mittelalter_. XIII, 5, 4). ] 1309. *(Of Snakes, carried by Storks.)* Serpents of great length will be seen at a great height in the air, fighting with birds. *(Of great guns, which come out of a pit and a mould.)* Creatures will come from underground which with their terrific noise will stun all who are near; and with their breath will kill men and destroy cities and castles. 1310. *(Of Grain and other Seeds.)* Men will fling out of their houses those victuals which were intended to sustain their life. *(Of Trees, which nourish grafted shoots.)* Fathers and mothers will be seen to take much more delight in their step-children then in their own children. *(Of the Censer.)* Some will go about in white garments with arrogant gestures threatening others with metal and fire which will do no harm at all to them. 1311. *(Of drying Fodder.)* Innumerable lives will be destroyed and innumerable vacant spaces will be made on the earth. *(Of the Life of Men, who every year change their bodily substance.)* Men, when dead, will pass through their own bowels. 1312. *(Shoemakers.)* Men will take pleasure in seeing their own work destroyed and injured. 1313. *(Of Kids.)* The time of Herod will come again, for the little innocent children will be taken from their nurses, and will die of terrible wounds inflicted by cruel men. V. DRAUGHTS AND SCHEMES FOR THE HUMOROUS WRITINGS. Schemes for fables, etc. (1314-1323). 1314. A FABLE. The crab standing under the rock to catch the fish which crept under it, it came to pass that the rock fell with a ruinous downfall of stones, and by their fall the crab was crushed. THE SAME. The spider, being among the grapes, caught the flies which were feeding on those grapes. Then came the vintage, and the spider was cut down with the grapes. The vine that has grown old on an old tree falls with the ruin of that tree, and through that bad companionship must perish with it. The torrent carried so much earth and stones into its bed, that it was then constrained to change its course. The net that was wont to take the fish was seized and carried away by the rush of fish. The ball of snow when, as it rolls, it descends from the snowy mountains, increases in size as it falls. The willow, which by its long shoots hopes as it grows, to outstrip every other plant, from having associated itself with the vine which is pruned every year was always crippled. 1315. Fable of the tongue bitten by the teeth. The cedar puffed up with pride of its beauty, separated itself from the trees around it and in so doing it turned away towards the wind, which not being broken in its fury, flung it uprooted on the earth. The traveller's joy, not content in its hedge, began to fling its branches out over the high road, and cling to the opposite hedge, and for this it was broken away by the passers by. 1316. The goldfinch gives victuals to its caged young. Death rather than loss of liberty. [Footnote: Above this text is another note, also referring to liberty; see No. 694.] 1317. *(Of Bags.)* Goats will convey the wine to the city. L.1 39b] 1318. All those things which in winter are hidden under the snow, will be uncovered and laid bare in summer. *(for Falsehood, which cannot remain hidden)*. 1319. A FABLE. The lily set itself down by the shores of the Ticino, and the current carried away bank and the lily with it. 1320. A JEST. Why Hungarian ducats have a double cross on them. 1321. A SIMILE. A vase of unbaked clay, when broken, may be remoulded, but not a baked one. 1322. Seeing the paper all stained with the deep blackness of ink, it he deeply regrets it; and this proves to the paper that the words, composed upon it were the cause of its being preserved. 1323. The pen must necessarily have the penknife for a companion, and it is a useful companionship, for one is not good for much without the other. Schemes for prophecies (1324-1329). 1324. The knife, which is an artificial weapon, deprives man of his nails, his natural weapons. The mirror conducts itself haughtily holding mirrored in itself the Queen. When she departs the mirror remains there ... 1325. Flax is dedicated to death, and to the corruption of mortals. To death, by being used for snares and nets for birds, animals and fish; to corruption, by the flaxen sheets in which the dead are wrapped when they are buried, and who become corrupt in these winding sheets.-- And again, this flax does not separate its fibre till it has begun to steep and putrefy, and this is the flower with which garlands and decorations for funerals should be made. 1326. *(Of Peasants who work in shirts) Shadows will come from the East which will blacken with great colour darkness the sky that covers Italy. *(Of the Barbers.)* All men will take refuge in Africa. 1327. The cloth which is held in the hand in the current of a running stream, in the waters of which the cloth leaves all its foulness and dirt, is meant to signify this &c. By the thorn with inoculated good fruit is signified those natures which of themselves were not disposed towards virtue, but by the aid of their preceptors they have the repudation of it. 1328. A COMMON THING. A wretched person will be flattered, and these flatterers are always the deceivers, robbers and murderers of the wretched person. The image of the sun where it falls appears as a thing which covers the person who attempts to cover it. *( Money and Gold. )* Out of cavernous pits a thing shall come forth which will make all the nations of the world toil and sweat with the greatest torments, anxiety and labour, that they may gain its aid. *( Of the Dread of Poverty. )* The malicious and terrible [monster] will cause so much terror of itself in men that they will rush together, with a rapid motion, like madmen, thinking they are escaping her boundless force. *( Of Advice. )* The man who may be most necessary to him who needs him, will be repaid with ingratitude, that is greatly contemned. 1329. *( Of Bees. )* They live together in communities, they are destroyed that we may take the honey from them. Many and very great nations will be destroyed in their own dwellings. 1330. WHY DOGS TAKE PLEASURE IN SMELLING AT EACH OTHER. This animal has a horror of the poor, because they eat poor food, and it loves the rich, because they have good living and especially meat. And the excrement of animals always retains some virtue of its origin as is shown by the faeces ... Now dogs have so keen a smell, that they can discern by their nose the virtue remaining in these faeces, and if they find them in the streets, smell them and if they smell in them the virtue of meat or of other things, they take them, and if not, they leave them: And to return to the question, I say that if by means of this smell they know that dog to be well fed, they respect him, because they judge that he