# Harish-Chandra isomorphism

In mathematics, the Harish-Chandra isomorphism, introduced by ,
is an isomorphism of commutative rings constructed in the theory of Lie algebras. The isomorphism maps the center  of the universal enveloping algebra  of a reductive Lie algebra  to the elements  of the symmetric algebra  of a Cartan subalgebra  that are invariant under the Weyl group .

Introduction and setting 
Let  be a semisimple Lie algebra,  its Cartan subalgebra and  be two elements of the weight space (where  is the dual of ) and assume that a set of positive roots  have been fixed. Let  and  be highest weight modules with highest weights  and  respectively.

Central characters 
The -modules  and  are representations of the universal enveloping algebra  and its center acts on the modules by scalar multiplication (this follows from the fact that the modules are generated by a highest weight vector). So, for  and ,

and similarly for , where the functions  are homomorphisms from  to scalars called central characters.

Statement of Harish-Chandra theorem
For any , the characters  if and only if  and  are on the same orbit of the Weyl group of , where  is the half-sum of the positive roots, sometimes known as the Weyl vector.

Another closely related formulation is that the Harish-Chandra homomorphism from the center of the universal enveloping algebra  to  (the elements of the symmetric algebra of the Cartan subalgebra fixed by the Weyl group) is an isomorphism.

Explicit isomorphism
More explicitly, the isomorphism can be constructed as the composition of two maps, one from  to  and another from  to itself.

The first is a projection . For a choice of positive roots , defining 

as the corresponding positive nilpotent subalgebra and negative nilpotent subalgebra respectively, due to the Poincaré–Birkhoff–Witt theorem there is a decomposition

If  is central, then in fact 

The restriction of the projection  to the centre is , and is a homomorphism of algebras. This is related to the central characters by

The second map is the twist map . On  viewed as a subspace of  it is defined  with  the Weyl vector.

Then  is the isomorphism. The reason this twist is introduced is that  is not actually Weyl-invariant, but it can be proven that the twisted character  is.

Applications 
The theorem has been used to obtain a simple Lie algebraic proof of Weyl's character formula for finite-dimensional irreducible representations. The proof has been further simplified by Victor Kac, so that only the quadratic Casimir operator is required; there is a corresponding streamlined treatment proof of the character formula in the second edition of .

Further, it is a necessary condition for the existence of a non-zero homomorphism of some highest weight modules (a homomorphism of such modules preserves central character). A simple consequence is that for Verma modules or generalized Verma modules  with highest weight , there exist only finitely many weights  for which a non-zero homomorphism   exists.

Fundamental invariants

For  a simple Lie algebra, let  be its rank, that is, the dimension of any Cartan subalgebra  of . H. S. M. Coxeter observed that  is isomorphic to a polynomial algebra in  variables (see Chevalley–Shephard–Todd theorem for a more general statement). Therefore, the center of the universal enveloping algebra of a simple Lie algebra is isomorphic to a polynomial algebra. The degrees of the generators of the algebra are the degrees of the fundamental invariants given in the following table.

The number of the fundamental invariants of a Lie group is equal to its rank. Fundamental invariants are also related to the cohomology ring of a Lie group. In particular, if the fundamental invariants have degrees , then the generators of the cohomology ring have degrees . Due to this, the degrees of the fundamental invariants can be calculated from the Betti numbers of the Lie group and vice versa. In another direction, fundamental invariants are related to cohomology of the classifying space. The cohomology ring  is isomorphic to a polynomial algebra on generators with degrees .

Examples
If  is the Lie algebra , then the center of the universal enveloping algebra is generated by the Casimir invariant of degree 2, and the Weyl group acts on the Cartan subalgebra, which is isomorphic to , by negation, so the invariant of the Weyl group is the square of the generator of the Cartan subalgebra, which is also of degree 2.
 For , the Harish-Chandra isomorphism says  is isomorphic to a polynomial algebra of Weyl-invariant polynomials in two variables  (since the Cartan subalgebra is two-dimensional). For , the Weyl group is  which acts on the CSA in the standard representation. Since the Weyl group acts by reflections, they are isometries and so the degree 2 polynomial  is Weyl-invariant. The contours of the degree 3 Weyl-invariant polynomial (for a particular choice of standard representation where one of the reflections is across the x-axis) are shown below. These two polynomials generate the polynomial algebra, and are the fundamental invariants for .
 For all the Lie algebras in the classification, there is a fundamental invariant of degree 2, the quadratic Casimir. In the isomorphism, these correspond to a degree 2 polynomial on the CSA. Since the Weyl group acts by reflections on the CSA, they are isometries, so the degree 2 invariant polynomial is  where  is the dimension of the CSA , also known as the rank of the Lie algebra.
 For , the Cartan subalgebra is one-dimensional, and the Harish-Chandra isomorphism says  is isomorphic to the algebra of Weyl-invariant polynomials in a single variable . The Weyl group is  acting as reflection, with non-trivial element acting on polynomials by . The subalgebra of Weyl-invariant polynomials in the full polynomial algebra  is therefore only the even polynomials, generated by .

 For , the Weyl group is , acting on two coordinates , and is generated (non-minimally) by four reflections, which act on coordinates as . Any invariant quartic must be even in both  and , and invariance under exchange of coordinates means any invariant quartic can be written  Despite this being a two-dimensional vector space, this contributes only one new fundamental invariant as  lies in the space. In this case, there is no unique choice of quartic invariant as any polynomial with  (and  not both zero) suffices.

Generalization to affine Lie algebras
The above result holds for reductive, and in particular semisimple Lie algebras. There is a generalization to affine Lie algebras shown by Feigin and Frenkel showing that an algebra known as the Feigin–Frenkel center is isomorphic to a W-algebra associated to the Langlands dual Lie algebra .

The Feigin–Frenkel center of an affine Lie algebra  is not exactly the center of the universal enveloping algebra . They are elements  of the vacuum affine vertex algebra at critical level , where  is the dual Coxeter number for  which are annihilated by the positive loop algebra  part of , that is, 

where  is the affine vertex algebra at the critical level. Elements of this center are also known as singular vectors or Segal–Sugawara vectors.

The isomorphism in this case is an isomorphism between the Feigin–Frenkel center and the W-algebra constructed associated to the Langlands dual Lie algebra by Drinfeld–Sokolov reduction:

There is also a description of  as a polynomial algebra in a finite number of countably infinite families of generators, , where  have degrees  and  is the (negative of) the natural derivative operator on the loop algebra.

See also
 Translation functor
 Infinitesimal character

Notes

External resources 
Notes on the Harish-Chandra isomorphism

References

 (Contains an improved proof of Weyl's character formula.)

Representation theory of Lie algebras
Theorems in algebra