# Peter Clarke (footballer)

Peter Michael Clarke (born 3 January 1982) is an English professional footballer who plays as a centre back for  club Warrington Town.

Clarke began his career with Everton. During his time there he made nine league appearances and had loan spells with Blackpool, Port Vale and Coventry City. He then joined Blackpool on a permanent basis in 2004, where he also captained the club. He has also captained Southend United who he joined in 2006, before joining Huddersfield Town in 2009. He helped the "Terriers" to win promotion out of League One via the play-offs in 2012. He returned to Blackpool in July 2014, but was released after the club were relegated at the end of the season. He joined Bury in May 2015, and then moved on to Oldham Athletic in July 2016. He rejoined former club Bury on loan in January 2018 and signed with Fleetwood Town in August 2019 following his release from Oldham. He moved on to Tranmere Rovers in January 2020 and played for the club in 2021 EFL Trophy final. He joined Walsall in June 2022 and was loaned out to Oldham Athletic five months later. He signed with non-League Warrington Town in July 2023.

He won the Player of the Season award at Blackpool, Southend, Huddersfield (twice), Bury and Oldham Athletic (twice) in the 2004–05, 2008–09, 2009–10, 2010–11, 2015–16, 2016–17 and 2018–19 seasons respectively. Clarke also gained eight caps for the England under-21 team between 2002 and 2003. At the age of 40, he was named in both the EFL League Two Team of the Season and PFA Team of the Year for the 2021–22 campaign.

Club career

Everton
Clarke started his career with Everton, signing his first professional contract in January 1999. He made his senior debut in 2001 against Coventry City. He made just nine appearances in the Premier League, largely in the unfamiliar position of right back, rather than his preferred centre-half position. In August 2002, he went on out loan to Blackpool, where he made sixteen league appearances, scoring three goals (two of which came on his home debut) in a three-month loan spell. His performances played a large part in the "Seasiders" stringing together a run of clean sheets and rising to the edge of the 2002–03 play-off picture. Despite manager Steve McMahon's best efforts, a permanent deal did not materialise and Clarke returned to Goodison Park in early November. In February 2003, he went out on loan again, this time to Port Vale, also of the Second Division, where he made thirteen appearances in another three-month spell. He won praise from manager Brian Horton for his strong work ethic. He spent February 2004 on loan at First Division Coventry City, playing five games. His contract with Everton expired at the end of the 2003–04 season, and he turned down the club's offer of a new contract, though he remained at the club on a month-to-month contract.

Blackpool
In September 2004 Clarke signed for Blackpool, then managed by Colin Hendry, initially on a one-month loan but with an agreement to make the move permanent, for £150,000. When Clarke arrived at the club, Blackpool were eight points short from safety. Helping to shore up the defence, his impact helped the club to avoid relegation. His contribution was recognized at the end of season award evening, as he picked up the Player of the Year award, as well as three other individual awards. Despite the departure of Hendry, he continued to be a vital part of the club's line-up, playing all 46 league games in the 2005–06 season under new manager Simon Grayson. At the end of that campaign he picked up the Blackpool Gazette and Supporters Websites awards, as well as the Alan Lowis Memorial Trophy. He made a total of 109 appearances for Blackpool, including his loan spell, and was also the club's captain.

Southend United
In August 2006 Clarke left Blackpool, despite the offer of an improved contract, and signed for Championship newcomers Southend United. He signed a three-year contract for an undisclosed fee, citing his desire to play Championship football. Clarke hoped the club could progress and even reach the top-flight, however Southend were relegated back into League One at the end of his first season after finishing seven points short of safety. He spent the 2007–08 season back in League One, and promotion hopes were ended following a 5–1 defeat to Doncaster Rovers in the play-off semi-finals. In June 2008 Clarke was transfer-listed, along with Nicky Bailey and Simon Francis, after the three failed to agree terms over contract extensions. Chairman Ron Martin blamed Clarke's agent for unsettling him at the club.

A move did not materialise, and Clarke continued to play for Southend in the 2008–09 season, and vowed to give his best until his situation could be resolved. On 3 January 2009, Clarke scored a last-minute headed equaliser against Chelsea, a team challenging for the Premier League title, in an FA Cup Third Round tie. BBC journalist Phil McNulty called it a "career-defining moment" for Clarke in a piece about the "magic" of the FA Cup. Clarke built up a strong defensive partnership with young Frenchman Dorian Dervite. However chairman Ron Martin told the press that Clarke had snubbed talks of extending his contract beyond the summer,. despite the club's wish to keep hold of the player. Clarke denied this and stated that "I'm just waiting for him [Martin] to come and speak to me". Following the club's eighth-place finish, Clarke was voted the club's Player of the Season for the 2008–09 season by both fans and players.

Huddersfield Town
In June 2009, Clarke announced that he had agreed a three-year contract with League One side Huddersfield Town. He stated that he believed he was taking career to a higher level by securing the switch from Southend to Huddersfield. In doing so he rejected an offer from Charlton Athletic. The following month manager Lee Clark appointed Clarke as club captain. He made his debut in a 2–2 draw against Southend United at Roots Hall on 8 August. He scored his first goal for the "Terriers" ten days later in a 7–1 win over Brighton & Hove Albion at the Galpharm Stadium. On 14 November, Clarke added two more goals in a 6–0 win over Wycombe Wanderers. He also scored the winning goal in Huddersfield's 1–0 home win over Millwall. He was named Player of the Season for Huddersfield. He captained Huddersfield to a sixth-placed finish in League One, securing a play-off semi-final spot after playing in all 46 league games. They lost out 2–0 to Millwall at the semi-final stage.

In 2010–11 Clarke led his side to a third-place finish, again an ever-present in the first XI, starting and finishing all league games. He was rewarded with a new three-year contract, keeping him at the club until summer 2014. This time they made it into the play-off final, where they were beaten 3–0 by Peterborough United. Clarke was made Town's Player of the Year for the second consecutive season, and was also made PFA Fans' Player of the Year for League One. During the 2011–12 season Clarke was limited to 31 league appearances for the terriers due to an injury picked up in September 2011 and the form of the club's other centre backs, missing much of the club's games in September and February. Clarke through would go on to lead Huddersfield to fourth place during the regular season to qualify for the play-offs for a third constitutive year. This time, Town went through to the final after winning 3–2 on aggregate against MK Dons, to beat Sheffield United 8–7 on penalties; Clarke scored the first of eight consecutive penalty successes after three misses from his teammates. He made 47 appearances in the 2012–13 campaign, helping Huddersfield to remain four points above the relegation zone by the end of the season. He played 28 games in the 2013–14 season, as manager Mark Robins led the club to a 17th-place finish. He missed 12 weeks of the campaign after suffering medial knee ligament damage. Having made 225 appearances for the club in a five-year spell, he left the club after not being offered a new contract in the summer.

Return to Blackpool
In July 2014, Clarke rejoined Blackpool – now in the Championship and managed by José Riga – on a one-year deal. Three months later his former Huddersfield boss Lee Clark was appointed as manager. He was named on the Football League team of the week after leading the Blackpool defence to a clean sheet at home to Wolverhampton Wanderers on 13 September. On 10 January, he scored his first goal in four years to secure a 1–0 win over Millwall at Bloomfield Road; he also made a goal-line clearance during the game and was rewarded with a place on the Football League team of the week. However the 2014–15 season proved to be an unmitigated disaster for the club, and Blackpool were relegated with six games left to play. In May 2015 he was told by manager Lee Clark that he would be offered a new contract, however after Clark was sacked later in the month Clarke was "the surprise name" on Blackpool's