[Euclid's Elements — Euclid — Gutenberg #5000]

through channels of different forms. A book of preventing small rivers from diverting the larger one into which their waters run. A book of the lowest level which can be found in the current of the surface of rivers. A book of the origin of rivers which flow from the high tops of mountains. A book of the various motions of waters in their rivers. 928. [1] Of inequality in the concavity of a ship. [Footnote 1: The first line of this passage was added subsequently, evidently as a correction of the following line.] [1] A book of the inequality in the curve of the sides of ships. [1] A book of the inequality in the position of the tiller. [1] A book of the inequality in the keel of ships. [2] A book of various forms of apertures by which water flows out. [3] A book of water contained in vessels with air, and of its movements. [4] A book of the motion of water through a syphon. [Footnote 7: _cicognole_, see No. 966, 11, 17.] [5] A book of the meetings and union of waters coming from different directions. [6] A book of the various forms of the banks through which rivers pass. [7] A book of the various forms of shoals formed under the sluices of rivers. [8] A book of the windings and meanderings of the currents of rivers. [9] A book of the various places whence the waters of rivers are derived. [10] A book of the configuration of the shores of rivers and of their permanency. [11] A book of the perpendicular fall of water on various objects. [12] Abook of the course of water when it is impeded in various places. [12] A book of the various forms of the obstacles which impede the course of waters. [13] A book of the concavity and globosity formed round various objects at the bottom. [14] Abook of conducting navigable canals above or beneath the rivers which intersect them. [15] A book of the soils which absorb water in canals and of repairing them. [16] Abook of creating currents for rivers, which quit their beds, [and] for rivers choked with soil. General introduction. 929. THE BEGINNING OF THE TREATISE ON WATER. By the ancients man has been called the world in miniature; and certainly this name is well bestowed, because, inasmuch as man is composed of earth, water, air and fire, his body resembles that of the earth; and as man has in him bones the supports and framework of his flesh, the world has its rocks the supports of the earth; as man has in him a pool of blood in which the lungs rise and fall in breathing, so the body of the earth has its ocean tide which likewise rises and falls every six hours, as if the world breathed; as in that pool of blood veins have their origin, which ramify all over the human body, so likewise the ocean sea fills the body of the earth with infinite springs of water. The body of the earth lacks sinews and this is, because the sinews are made expressely for movements and, the world being perpetually stable, no movement takes place, and no movement taking place, muscles are not necessary. --But in all other points they are much alike. I. OF THE NATURE OF WATER. The arrangement of Book I. 930. THE ORDER OF THE FIRST BOOK ON WATER. Define first what is meant by height and depth; also how the elements are situated one inside another. Then, what is meant by solid weight and by liquid weight; but first what weight and lightness are in themselves. Then describe why water moves, and why its motion ceases; then why it becomes slower or more rapid; besides this, how it always falls, being in contact with the air but lower than the air. And how water rises in the air by means of the heat of the sun, and then falls again in rain; again, why water springs forth from the tops of mountains; and if the water of any spring higher than the ocean can pour forth water higher than the surface of that ocean. And how all the water that returns to the ocean is higher than the sphere of waters. And how the waters of the equatorial seas are higher than the waters of the North, and higher beneath the body of the sun than in any part of the equatorial circle; for experiment shows that under the heat of a burning brand the water near the brand boils, and the water surrounding this ebullition always sinks with a circular eddy. And how the waters of the North are lower than the other seas, and more so as they become colder, until they are converted into ice. Definitions (931. 932). 931. OF WHAT IS WATER. Among the four elements water is the second both in weight and in instability. 932. THE BEGINNING OF THE BOOK ON WATER. Sea is the name given to that water which is wide and deep, in which the waters have not much motion. [Footnote: Only the beginning of this passage is here given, the remainder consists of definitions which have no direct bearing on the subject.] Of the surface of the water in relation to the globe (933-936). 933. The centres of the sphere of water are two, one universal and common to all water, the other particular. The universal one is that which is common to all waters not in motion, which exist in great quantities. As canals, ditches, ponds, fountains, wells, dead rivers, lakes, stagnant pools and seas, which, although they are at various levels, have each in itself the limits of their superficies equally distant from the centre of the earth, such as lakes placed at the tops of high mountains; as the lake near Pietra Pana and the lake of the Sybil near Norcia; and all the lakes that give rise to great rivers, as the Ticino from Lago Maggiore, the Adda from the lake of Como, the Mincio from the lake of Garda, the Rhine from the lakes of Constance and of Chur, and from the lake of Lucerne, like the Tigris which passes through Asia Minor carrying with it the waters of three lakes, one above the other at different heights of which the highest is Munace, the middle one Pallas, and the lowest Triton; the Nile again flows from three very high lakes in Ethiopia. [Footnote 5: _Pietra Pana_, a mountain near Florence. If for Norcia, we may read Norchia, the remains of the Etruscan city near Viterbo, there can be no doubt that by '_Lago della Sibilla_'--a name not known elsewhere, so far as I can learn--Leonardo meant _Lago di Vico_ (Lacus Ciminus, Aen. 7).] 934. OF THE CENTRE OF THE OCEAN. The centre of the sphere of waters is the true centre of the globe of our world, which is composed of water and earth, having the shape of a sphere. But, if you want to find the centre of the element of the earth, this is placed at a point equidistant from the surface of the ocean, and not equidistant from the surface of the earth; for it is evident that this globe of earth has nowhere any perfect rotundity, excepting in places where the sea is, or marshes or other still waters. And every part of the earth that rises above the water is farther from the centre. 935. OF THE SEA WHICH CHANGES THE WEIGHT OF THE EARTH. The shells, oysters, and other similar animals, which originate in sea-mud, bear witness to the changes of the earth round the centre of our elements. This is proved thus: Great rivers always run turbid, being coloured by the earth, which is stirred by the friction of their waters at the bottom and on their shores; and this wearing disturbs the face of the strata made by the layers of shells, which lie on the surface of the marine mud, and which were produced there when the salt waters covered them; and these strata were covered over again from time to time, with mud of various thickness, or carried down to the sea by the rivers and floods of more or less extent; and thus these layers of mud became raised to such a height, that they came up from the bottom to the air. At the present time these bottoms are so high that they form hills or high mountains, and the rivers, which wear away the sides of these mountains, uncover the strata of these shells, and thus the softened side of the earth continually rises and the antipodes sink closer to the centre of the earth, and the ancient bottoms of the seas have become mountain ridges. 936. Let the earth make whatever changes it may in its weight, the surface of the sphere of waters can never vary in its equal distance from the centre of the world. Of the proportion of the mass of water to that of the earth (937. 938). 937. WHETHER THE EARTH IS LESS THAN THE WATER. Some assert that it is true that the earth, which is not covered by water is much less than that covered by water. But considering the size of 7000 miles in diameter which is that of this earth, we may conclude the water to be of small depth. 938. OF THE EARTH. The great elevations of the peaks of the mountains above the sphere of the water may have resulted from this that: a very large portion of the earth which was filled with water that is to say the vast cavern inside the earth may have fallen in a vast part of its vault towards the centre of the earth, being pierced by means of the course of the springs which continually wear away the place where they pass. Sinking in of countries like the Dead Sea in Syria, that is Sodom and Gomorrah. It is of necessity that there should be more water than land, and the visible portion of the sea does not show this; so that there must be a great deal of water inside the earth, besides that which rises into the lower air and which flows through rivers and springs. [Footnote: The small sketch below on the left, is placed in the original close to the text referring to the Dead Sea.] The theory of Plato. 939. THE FIGURES OF THE ELEMENTS. Of the figures of the elements; and first as against those who deny the opinions of Plato, and who say that if the elements include one another in the forms attributed to them by Plato they would cause a vacuum one within the