# Kőnig's theorem (graph theory)

In the mathematical area of graph theory, Kőnig's theorem, proved by , describes an equivalence between the maximum matching problem and the minimum vertex cover problem in bipartite graphs. It was discovered independently, also in 1931, by Jenő Egerváry in the more general case of weighted graphs.

Setting 
A vertex cover in a graph is a set of vertices that includes at least one endpoint of every edge, and a vertex cover is minimum if no other vertex cover has fewer vertices. A matching in a graph is a set of edges no two of which share an endpoint, and a matching is maximum if no other matching has more edges.

It is obvious from the definition that any vertex-cover set must be at least as large as any matching set (since for every edge in the matching, at least one vertex is needed in the cover). In particular, the minimum vertex cover set is at least as large as the maximum matching set. Kőnig's theorem states that, in any bipartite graph, the minimum vertex cover set and the maximum matching set have in fact the same size.

Statement of the theorem 
In any bipartite graph, the number of edges in a maximum matching equals the number of vertices in a minimum vertex cover.

Example 
The bipartite graph shown in the above illustration has 14 vertices; a matching with six edges is shown in blue, and a vertex cover with six vertices is shown in red. There can be no smaller vertex cover, because any vertex cover has to include at least one endpoint of each matched edge (as well as of every other edge), so this is a minimum vertex cover. Similarly, there can be no larger matching, because any matched edge has to include at least one endpoint in the vertex cover, so this is a maximum matching. Kőnig's theorem states that the equality between the sizes of the matching and the cover (in this example, both numbers are six) applies more generally to any bipartite graph.

Proofs

Constructive proof 

The following proof provides a way of constructing a minimum vertex cover from a maximum matching. Let  be a bipartite graph and let  be the two parts of the vertex set .  Suppose that  is a maximum matching for .

Construct the flow network  derived from  in such way that there are edges of capacity  from the source  to every vertex  and from every vertex  to the sink , and of capacity  from  to  for any .

The size  of the maximum matching in  is the size of a maximum flow in , which, in turn, is the size of a minimum cut in the network , as follows from the max-flow min-cut theorem.

Let  be a minimum cut. Let  and , such that  and . Then the minimum cut is composed only of edges going from  to  or from  to , as any edge from  to  would make the size of the cut infinite.

Therefore, the size of the minimum cut is equal to . On the other hand,  is a vertex cover, as any edge that is not incident to vertices from  and  must be incident to a pair of vertices from  and , which would contradict the fact that there are no edges between  and .

Thus,  is a minimum vertex cover of .

Constructive proof without flow concepts 
No vertex in a vertex cover can cover more than one edge of  (because the edge half-overlap would prevent  from being a matching in the first place), so if a vertex cover with  vertices can be constructed, it must be a minimum cover.

To construct such a cover, let  be the set of unmatched vertices in  (possibly empty), and let  be the set of vertices that are either in  or are connected to  by alternating paths (paths that alternate between edges that are in the matching and edges that are not in the matching). Let

Every edge  in  either belongs to an alternating path (and has a right endpoint in ), or it has a left endpoint in . For, if  is matched but not in an alternating path, then its left endpoint cannot be in an alternating path (because two matched edges can not share a vertex) and thus belongs to . Alternatively, if  is unmatched but not in an alternating path, then its left endpoint cannot be in an alternating path, for such a path could be extended by adding  to it. Thus,  forms a vertex cover.

Additionally, every vertex in  is an endpoint of a matched edge.
For, every vertex in  is matched because  is a superset of , the set of unmatched left vertices.
And every vertex in  must also be matched, for if there existed an alternating path to an unmatched vertex then changing the matching by removing the matched edges from this path and adding the unmatched edges in their place would increase the size of the matching. However, no matched edge can have both of its endpoints in . Thus,  is a vertex cover of cardinality equal to , and must be a minimum vertex cover.

Proof using linear programming duality 
To explain this proof, we first have to extend the notion of a matching to that of a fractional matching - an assignment of a weight in [0,1] to each edge, such that the sum of weights near each vertex is at most 1 (an integral matching is a special case of a fractional matching in which the weights are in {0,1}).  Similarly we define a fractional vertex-cover - an assignment of a non-negative weight to each vertex, such that the sum of weights in each edge is at least 1 (an integral vertex-cover is a special case of a fractional vertex-cover in which the weights are in {0,1}).

The maximum fractional matching size in a graph  is the solution of the following linear program:Maximize      1E · x

Subject to:     x ≥ 0E

__  AG · x  ≤  1V.where x is a vector of size |E| in which each element represents the weight of an edge in the fractional matching.  1E is a vector of |E| ones, so the first line indicates the size of the matching. 0E is a vector of |E| zeros, so the second line indicates the constraint that the weights are non-negative. 1V is a vector of |V| ones and AG is the incidence matrix of G, so the third line indicates the constraint that the sum of weights near each vertex is at most 1.

Similarly, the minimum fractional vertex-cover size in  is the solution of the following LP:Minimize      1V · y

Subject to:     y ≥ 0V

__  AGT · y  ≥  1E.where y is a vector of size |V| in which each element represents the weight of a vertex in the fractional cover. Here, the first line is the size of the cover, the second line represents the non-negativity of the weights, and the third line represents the requirement that the sum of weights near each edge must be at least 1.

Now, the minimum fractional cover LP is exactly the dual linear program of the maximum fractional matching LP. Therefore, by the LP duality theorem, both programs have the same solution. This fact is true not only in bipartite graphs but in arbitrary graphs:In any graph, the largest size of a fractional matching equals the smallest size of a fractional vertex cover.What makes bipartite graphs special is that, in bipartite graphs, both these linear programs have optimal solutions in which all variable values are integers. This follows from the fact that in the fractional matching polytope of a bipartite graph, all extreme points have only integer coordinates, and the same is true for the fractional vertex-cover polytope. Therefore the above theorem implies:
In any bipartite graph, the largest size of a matching equals the smallest size of a vertex cover.

Algorithm
The constructive proof described above provides an algorithm for producing a minimum vertex cover given a maximum matching.  Thus, the Hopcroft–Karp algorithm for finding maximum matchings in bipartite graphs may also be used to solve the vertex cover problem efficiently in these graphs.

Despite the equivalence of the two problems from the point of view of exact solutions, they are not equivalent for approximation algorithms. Bipartite maximum matchings can be approximated arbitrarily accurately in constant time by distributed algorithms; in contrast, approximating the minimum vertex cover of a bipartite graph requires at least logarithmic time.

Example
In the graph shown in the introduction take  to be the set of vertices in the bottom layer of the diagram and  to be the set of vertices in the top layer of the diagram. From left to right label the vertices in the bottom layer with the numbers 1, …, 7 and label the vertices in the top layer with the numbers 8, …, 14. The set  of unmatched vertices from  is {1}. The alternating paths starting from  are 1–10–3–13–7, 1–10–3–11–5–13–7, 1–11–5–13–7, 1–11–5–10–3–13–7, and all subpaths of these starting from 1. The set  is therefore {1,3,5,7,10,11,13}, resulting in ,  and the minimum vertex  cover .

Non-bipartite graphs 
For graphs that are not bipartite, the minimum vertex cover may be larger than the maximum matching. Moreover, the two problems are very different in complexity: maximum matchings can be found in polynomial time for any graph, while minimum vertex cover is NP-complete.

The complement of a vertex cover in any graph is an independent set, so a minimum vertex cover is complementary to a maximum independent set; finding maximum