# Lakai Limited Footwear

Lakai Limited Footwear is an American footwear company based in Torrance, California, that creates shoes designed for and inspired by skateboarding. Lakai was founded in 1999 by the professional skateboarders Mike Carroll and Rick Howard, who co-founded Girl Skateboards.

History

Beginnings 
Both Carroll and Howard decided that they wanted to make a contribution to the skate footwear industry by founding their own company rather than being sponsored. One night in April 1999, while at Largo Comedy Club in Los Angeles, Tim Gavin proposed an idea to Howard about starting a new shoe company. Afterwards, Howard and Carroll decided to partner with Podium Distribution to launch Lakai Limited Footwear.

In August 1999, Carroll contacted Cairo Foster and asked him if he would like to ride for his “unnamed” shoe company. When Foster called his current sponsor to quit, he said, "Mike Carroll asked me to ride for his shoe company, that’s all I know." After hanging up the phone, he informally became Lakai's first official team rider.

In the next couple of months, Andy Jenkins hired designer Andy Mueller to develop a logo for Lakai, which later became known as the “Flare”. Mueller moved to Los Angeles shortly thereafter to become Lakai's art director. Kelly Bird was hired as Lakai's team manager.

Anthony Pappalardo, Rob Welsh, and Jeff Lenoce agreed to become Lakai's first batch of amateur talent, earning a whopping $250 per month; in November 1999, Scott Johnston left his sponsor, DC Shoes, and joined Lakai as the final rider on the company's introductory team. By May 2000, the first line of Lakai shoes ("Howard", "Carroll", "Cohort", "Clay", and "Worthy") were delivered to shops worldwide.

Developments 
In June 2000, after filming together for Tranworld's Modus Operandi, Carroll asked Brandon Biebel to join Lakai. In April 2001, Scott Johnston's debut pro model was released, and Danny Garcia joined the team. In November 2001, JJ Rousseau became Lakai's first official European rider. In March 2002, after waiting for almost a year for his existing shoe contract to expire, Lakai welcomed Marc Johnson to the team; his first pro model came out a little over one year later. Cairo Foster's first pro model came out in December 2003. In January 2004, Lucas Puig and JB Gillet joined the team, and with Rousseau officially formed the subgroup called "The French Connection".

In May 2004, the first ever co-brand shoe with Girl Skateboards was released, paving the way for several more notable collaborations, including the series "The Art Dump", "Dominion", "Wrench Pilot", "The Quiet Life", and "Where the Wild Things Are". In May 2005, Guy Mariano joined Lakai after a long hiatus from skateboarding. Jesus Fernandez also joined the team, as well as Brits, Nick Jensen, and Danny Brady, who were dubbed "The Royal Family". In September 2005, Alex Olson, the son of veteran pro skateboarder Steve Olson, became Lakai's first amateur in almost five years. After months of speculation, Eric Koston joined Lakai in May 2006.

In July 2006, Danny Garcia was the first skateboarder to leave Lakai, and moved onto his next shoes sponsor, éS Footwear. Mike Mo was officially announced as a team amateur (AM) in August 2006, and Guy Mariano received his first pro model shoe. Eric Koston's pro models released in December 2006. In January 2007, Scott Johnston joined the Lakai design team, beginning his transition from professional skater to footwear designer. Johnston told ESPN: "... that was my plan, to end on a good note and not bleed this career dry the way some guys do by not letting it go. Skating was so good to me, and I want to be good to it and not be one of those guys that won't go away. I still skate, I don't need to get paid for it, though." In May 2007, Brandon Biebel's first signature shoe was released; in August, Independent Trucks partnered with Lakai to release their first footwear collaboration ever, the "Koston Select / Independent Limited Edition". In November 2007, Lakai released its first full-length video, Fully Flared.

After Fully Flared 
In March 2008, Alex Olson and Anthony Pappalardo decided to part ways with Lakai in pursuit of footwear opportunities with Vans and Converse CONS. The following month, Vincent Alvarez became Lakai's newest AM.

In 2009, Lakai celebrated their 10-year anniversary with a special catalog showcasing the history of the brand.

Eric Koston was next to leave Lakai, in pursuit of sponsorship with NIKE SB. A skit in the same vein as his Lakai introduction was made as a send-off for Koston. In 2010, Lakai introduced Riley Hawk, Daniel Espinoza, and Raven Tershy as their newest AMs, along with their video introduction, Am I Am. In 2011, Lucas Puig left Lakai for Adidas. Sebo Walker was announced as Lakai's newest AM with his clip in the "Carroll 5: Out of Control" commercial. Lakai left Podium Distribution to join Girl Skateboards Distribution. Lakai won Thrasher's King of the Road competition with 6,060 points. This also marked Mike Mo Capaldi's last Lakai trip; he went on to join DC Shoes in December 2011.

The Flare Era 
After adding names such as Stevie Perez, Jon Sciano, Ronnie Sandoval, and Miles Silvas, a meeting was held at Spike Jonze's house in early 2014. Discussion was made for Lakai's next full-length video, which would eventually be titled The Flare. Throughout the filming for the video, the team went through massive changes as riders left the company, including Miles Silvas, Ronnie Sandoval, Brandon Biebel, and most notably, Guy Mariano and Marc Johnson. Lakai brand manager Kelly Bird and shoe designer Scott Johnston left the company in 2015. Amateur riders such as Cody Chapman, Simon Bannerot, Tyler "Manchild" Pacheco, Yonnie Cruz, James Capps, Nico Hiraga, and Johnny Jones joined the company, as well as veteran pro Rick McCrank. The Flare released in July 2017, unveiling Lakai's next additions to the team: Jimmy Wilkins and Tony Hawk. Lakai left Girl Distribution and joined HUF under Renegade Brands.

Griffin Gass was later announced as a member of the team in February 2018.

Videos
Similar to the other brands distributed by Girl, Lakai has received a considerable level of attention for its video productions. Videographer and director Ty Evans has been responsible for the majority of Lakai's video productions, followed by Federico Vitetta.

Australia Tour (2001)  
Lakai's first release was a short video of a tour through Australia and New Zealand, featuring original riders Brandon Biebel, Rick Howard, Jeff Lenoce, Anthony Pappalardo, Scott Johnston, and Rob Welsh. The tour also included lensman Ty Evans, team manager Kelly Bird, art director Andy Mueller, and photographer Mike O' Meally. Missing on the tour were Mike Carroll and Cairo Foster.

The tour's video showcased the personality and skill of rising stars Brandon Biebel and Anthony Pappalardo. It was released on VHS for skateshops only, and came with a zine featuring photos and interviews taken on the trip by Mueller and O' Meally. The video was later remastered and included as a bonus feature on The Final Flare DVD boxset.

Beware of the Flare (2002)  
Lakai's second release was a much bigger production: a 30-minute tour video through Europe. It introduced Marc Johnson to the team, as well as offered a sneak peek of flow riders JJ Rousseau and Lucas Puig, who were later dubbed "The French Connection" in Fully Flared. Although not all riders were present on the trip (such as Cairo Foster and Danny Garcia), those who were absent were included in a team montage at the end of the video.

The focus of the video was to document tour life, showcasing a behind-the-scenes look at travelling, injuries, packed signings, and a huge number of demos. The video includes commentary about each of these topics, as well as demo and street montages. The video was shot by Ty Evans and Dan Wolfe, with photography by Atiba Jefferson, and was released on VHS in June 2002.

Fully Flared (2007) 
Lakai's first full-length video, Fully Flared, premiered November 16, 2007. The video had an enormous amount of hype surrounding it, mostly due to high-profile riders such as Eric Koston being added to the team, a rumored 13-minute Marc Johnson part, the return of Guy Mariano, and a release date that was pushed back multiple times throughout 2005–2007.

Timeline 
Filming for the video started almost immediately after Chocolate Skateboards' video Hot Chocolate. The first filming trip was to Arizona in November 2003.

In the Fully Flared book that came with The Final Flare (2008) boxset, Marc Johnson explains the beginning stages of the video:

In February 2004 a handful of the team embarked on a trip to Barcelona and Mallorca. The goal was to have the video done by the end of 2005. During the trip, it snowed, which the locals explain "never happens". The team met up with European riders JJ Rousseau, JB Gillet, and Lucas Puig.

In March 2005, with the original video deadline approaching, a