# Neonatal alloimmune thrombocytopenia

Neonatal alloimmune thrombocytopenia (NAITP, NAIT, NATP or NAT) is a disease that affects babies in which the platelet count is decreased because the mother's immune system attacks her fetus' or newborn's platelets. A low platelet count increases the risk of bleeding in the fetus and newborn.  If the bleeding occurs in the brain, there may be long-term effects.

Platelet antigens are inherited from both mother and father.   is caused by antibodies specific for platelet antigens inherited from the father but which are absent in the mother.  Fetomaternal transfusions (or fetomaternal hemorrhage) results in the recognition of these antigens by the mother's immune system as non-self, with the subsequent generation of allo-reactive antibodies which cross the placenta. , hence, is caused by transplacental passage of maternal platelet-specific alloantibody and rarely human leukocyte antigen () allo-antibodies (which are expressed by platelets) to fetuses whose platelets express the corresponding antigens.

 occurs in somewhere between 1/800 and 1/5000 live births. More recent studies of  seem to indicate that it occurs in around 1/600 live births in the Caucasian population.

Signs and symptoms
The diagnosis of NAIT is usually made after an incidental finding of a low platelet count on a blood test or because of bleeding complications ranging from bruising or petechiae to intracranial hemorrhage in the fetus or newborn.

Frequently, the reduction in platelet count is mild and the affected neonates remain largely asymptomatic.  NAIT is the commonest cause of a very low platelet count, and the commonest cause of intracranial haemorrhage in the term neonate.

In case of severe thrombocytopenia, the neonates may exhibit bleeding complications at or a few hours after delivery. The most serious complication is intracranial hemorrhage, leading to death in approximately 10% of symptomatic babies or neurologic sequelae in 20% of cases. 80% of intracranial hemorrhages occur before birth. After birth the greatest risk of bleeding is in the first four days of life.

Related conditions 
Immune thrombocytopenic purpura (), sometimes called idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura is a condition in which autoantibodies are directed against a patient's own platelets, causing platelet destruction and thrombocytopenia.  Anti-platelet autoantibodies in a pregnant woman with immune thrombocytopenic purpura will attack the patient's own platelets and will also cross the placenta and react against fetal platelets.  Therefore,  is a significant cause of fetal and neonatal immune thrombocytopenia.  Approximately 10% of newborns affected by  will have platelet counts <50,000 μL−1 and 1% to 2% will have a risk of intracerebral hemorrhage comparable to infants with .

Mothers with thrombocytopenia or a previous diagnosis of  should be tested for serum anti-platelet antibodies.  A woman with symptomatic thrombocytopenia and an identifiable anti-platelet antibody should be started on therapy for their  which may include steroids or .  Fetal blood analysis to determine the platelet count is not generally performed as -induced thrombocytopenia in the fetus is generally less severe than . Platelet transfusions may be performed in newborns, depending on the degree of thrombocytopenia.

Other conditions causing a low platelet count 
Other conditions that can cause a low platelet count in the neonate include bacterial and viral infection, disseminated intravascular coagulation and other rare congenital conditions associated with a low platelet count.

Pathophysiology
Platelets have many proteins on their surface. Each person has a different set of proteins, which are inherited from their parents. These different platelet proteins make different platelet groups, just like different proteins on red blood cells make different blood groups. These differences do not affect how the platelets work. However, if a baby inherits a protein that is found on the father's platelets but is absent from the mother's platelets, the mother may respond to this foreign protein by developing an antibody that fights against it.

This antibody may pass from the mother's blood into the baby's blood and attach to the baby's platelets. This antibody destroys the baby's platelets and suppresses production of fetal platelets, they are also thought to weaken the blood vessel walls (vascular integrity) and affect production of new blood vessels (angiogenesis). This results in an increased risk of bleeding for the baby, and this can lead to the baby's death. The mother's antibodies can remain in the baby's bloodstream for weeks, and bleeding can occur in the baby before birth (fetal), during birth or after birth (neonatal).

A number of different proteins can cause NAIT, about 80% of cases are caused by antibodies against platelet antigen -1a, 15% by anti--5b, and 5% by other antibodies (e.g. -1b, -15, -3 and -9b). -1a is present in 98% of the population of the United States, suggesting that approximately 2% of women who are -1a negative may be at risk for  during pregnancy. Of course, the antigen expression of the father must also be taken into account - in most cases the father is -1a/1a or 1a/1b and the mother is -1b/1b with anti--1a antibodies.  In women of Asian descent, -4 antigens are the most frequently implicated.

Studies have shown a relationship between maternal  type DRw52a (DRB3* 0101) and the development of anti--1a.

The offending antibodies are IgG subtype and therefore capable of crossing the placenta and entering the fetal circulation.

Unlike hemolytic disease of the fetus and newborn,  occurs during the first pregnancy in up to 50% of cases, and the affected fetuses may develop severe thrombocytopenia (<50,000 μL−1) very early during pregnancy (as early as 20 weeks gestation, consistent with the development of platelet antigens, and the majority of the time in utero). Usually, the thrombocytopenia increases as gestation progresses. During the first pregnancy,  is often not detected until birth when the newborn presents with classic symptoms of thrombocytopenia including petechiae, bruising or intracranial hemorrhage. In utero intracranial hemorrhage occurs in about 10% to 30% of affected cases (and  is thought to be the underlying cause in the majority of cases of intracranial hemorrhage due to thrombocytopenia- greater than all other causes of thrombocytopenia combined). The risk of hemorrhage is inversely related to the platelet count with the greatest risk when the platelet count is below 100,000 μL−1.

The recurrence of  has been estimated to be more than 80% in subsequent pregnancies in which the fetus also carries the target platelet antigen.  Subsequent cases of  may be equivalent or more severe.

The fetal response to  is variable and may include compensatory extramedullary hematopoiesis.  Rarely, fetal hydrops may develop.  Fetal anemia (in presence of red cell incompatibility) may also occur.

Diagnosis
Doctors may consider a diagnosis of NAIT if they notice bleeding or bruising in a baby, or low platelet counts on a blood test after birth, or neurologic symptoms. Some babies may have a specific pinpoint rash called “petechiae”. If a diagnosis of NAIT is suspected, then the baby should be treated as if it had NAIT until the diagnosis is confirmed.

The diagnosis is confirmed by taking blood samples from the baby's parents, and sometimes the baby. Maternal and paternal platelet antigen phenotyping and screening of the maternal serum for anti-platelet antibodies can be performed. Additionally, platelet antigen genotyping can be performed on the maternal and paternal blood to determine the exact nature of the incompatibility.

Neonatal platelet counts on laboratory testing are typically under 20,000 μL−1.  Higher counts may suggest a different diagnosis, such as maternal immune thrombocytopenic purpura.

Even in mildly affected babies, it is important to fully investigate and diagnose the baby because the results can be critical for the effective management of any future pregnancies.

Treatment

During pregnancy
Antenatal management only occurs if a mother has had a previously affected baby or a family member has had an affected baby.

Interventions can be classified as invasive or non-invasive.

A review of the evidence has shown that invasive management resulted in a relatively high complication rate (mainly preterm emergency cesarean section) of 11% per treated pregnancy. Noninvasive management was also shown to be effective, but without the relatively high rate of adverse outcomes seen with invasive management. They concluded that first-line antenatal management in NAIT should be non-invasive with weekly intravenous immunoglobulin administration, with or without the addition of corticosteroids.

Recent international guidelines have now recommended non-invasive management of NAIT. Previously there had been no international consensus on the optimal antenatal management of NAIT