# Rolo Tomassi

Rolo Tomassi are  a British mathcore band formed in Sheffield in 2005. Their name is a reference to dialogue from the film L.A. Confidential. The band are known for their chaotic style and performances, and strong DIY ethic. They are currently signed to MNRK Heavy.

The band released two albums on Hassle Records: Hysterics (2008) and the Diplo-produced Cosmology (2010). After creating their own record label in 2011 called Destination Moon, they released Eternal Youth, a compilation album of B-sides, remixes and rarities from throughout their career, and their third album Astraea, in 2012 with the first line-up change in their career. They then released two albums on Holy Roar Records: Grievances (2015) and Time Will Die and Love Will Bury It (2018), before moving to their current label to release their sixth album, Where Myth Becomes Memory (2022).

History

Early years and the Mayday! label (2005–2008) 
Shortly before the band formed, Eva Korman (née Spence) was in a small garage band for a few months as a keyboardist. The band was looking for an aggressive vocalist to help make it a six piece band, so Eva stepped up to give screaming a go. To practice she and her brother, James Spence, would scream in their parents' car, with very loud music on; the music was to help overcome their shyness. The two have collaborated in bands since they were both 13 years old.

Rolo Tomassi formed in February 2005 in the town of Stocksbridge, taking their name from a concept in the 1997 neo-noir film L.A. Confidential. When Rolo Tomassi formed they sought to keep the band as DIY as possible; achieving this by hand-making their first releases and organizing many DIY shows. Eva Spence went from being the keyboardist to the vocalist after they struggled to find a singer. Not long after forming, the band had written some songs and immediately began to perform at local venues/pubs to small crowds.  At this time they released some of their first material on to a 3 Track Demo CD which they could sell at the shows in which they were performing. The demo CD-R was released under James Spence's (keyboardist/vocalist) independent label which he named "Mayday!". There are eight releases under this label. After a split EP with Mirror! Mirror! (limited to 333 copies and released through Speedowax) the band signed to Holy Roar Records and released a self-titled EP featuring re-recorded songs from previous demos and EPs along with new songs.

One of their first concerts was supporting Bring Me the Horizon in February 2005 at the Classic Rock Bar in Sheffield.

Hysterics and Cosmology (2008–2011)

In June 2008, Rolo Tomassi were given a spot at Download Festival. In September they released their debut album Hysterics. Supporting this release the band opened for Pulled Apart By Horses in Britain and for Jane's Addiction in the United States.

In 2009 Rolo Tomassi started their "Subs Club" series. This was a series of 7" vinyls singles released every three months with a cover track and remixes and a 7" single, Rolo Tomassi / Throats Split, jointly release with the band Throats. In February and March of that year Rolo Tomassi supported Fucked Up and The Bronx in the Shred Yr Face 2 tour. Later in this year, they performed at South by Southwest festival. This led to be an important performance in their career as they were watched by American producer Thomas Pentz, better known by his stage name Diplo, who mentioned them in a Pitchfork Media interview, when asked to name  "One Obscure Band You Think Should Be More Popular". The band contacted him thinking he might do a remix for them but he responded by offering to produce their second album. The band wished to wrap their album's completion around Diplo's schedule so they wrote the album in three months.

Towards the end of October 2009, the band flew to Los Angeles to record their second album, in a studio which James considered "unassuming, a well hidden and fantastic place". Artwork for their second album was, like that for Hysterics, designed by Simon Moody. Recording finished on 31 October and the album, titled Cosmology was released in May 2010 was released. With a hope that Cosmology  was a clear and definite progression from Hysterics James Spence felt had they corrected the short-comings of their first album. Because it was not co-written by Diplo, like with his typical projects, he helped add flourishes to the album. Diplo's influence on Eve Spence's developed vocal range has been noted. Because their producer had typically worked with female solo artists such as Bonde do Rolê, M.I.A. and Santigold,  he helped cross techniques from them over to Eva. Particularly with demoing songs, where the band would write a demo and give it to Eva to sing and interpret in her own room for hours.

The band played on the Ronnie James Dio Stage at Download Festival and played on the NME/Radio 1 tent at Reading and Leeds in August 2010. James Spence commented on the Download show saying it was the biggest show of their career to date. In the band's blog in June 2010 it was written that there might eventually be a Discography styled release in the future which would l allows people to hear all of the band's material released before the Rolo Tomassi EP. On 7 August 2010 they played at the Hevy Music Festival near Folkestone, England. Throughout October and November 2010 Rolo Tomassi supported The Dillinger Escape Plan on their UK tour. On 19 December 2010, the band planned to conclude the year with a free show at the Bloomsbury Ballroom in London, which was to be filmed as part of a documentary and live recording release from the band. However, the show was cancelled due to the ill health of Eva Spence, and so a new UK Tour was announced for May.

With the setting up of their own record label Destination Moon records Rolo Tomassi released Eternal Youth; an anthology of rare and non-album material including acoustic versions, remixes of their own work by various artists and a cover of Throats. This release was accompanied by a short list of tour dates across the UK in May 2011, which were confirmed to be the only tour date Rolo Tomassi would do in 2011. On 8 July 2011, Rolo Tomassi headlined the Red Bull Bedroom Jam Stage at Sonisphere. Rolo Tomassi expressed interest in working with Anthony Gonzalez or Kurt Ballou respectively of M83 and Converge as producers for the third album. In July James Spence said that the third album had not progressed far enough for them to search for producers. He also stated that they, as of July, they had at least two songs created, with a lyrical concept that surfaces as focuses on self-reflection.

Astraea (2012–2013)

In an interview with Kerrang!, Eva Korman confirmed that the band were self-producing their third full-length with Hysterics producer Jason Sanderson. Regarding the sound of the album, she said that it would be "more direct and heavier", but also noted that the band would "never shy away from being experimental". A May release date was initially projected. In early February 2012 Rolo Tomassi announced the release of a new single: "Old Mystics". The single was uploaded to the band's Facebook profile to stream for free. Release of the single was scheduled for 26 March. The band announced a few days after releasing "Old Mystics" for streaming that it would probably not appear on the new album, but just be a stand-alone single. Alongside the announcement of "Old Mystics" the band also announced that they had two brand new members following the departure of Joseph Thorpe and Joe Nicholson. Their replacements were Chris Cayford, current vocalist and former guitarist of No Coast, and Nathan Fairweather who plays in Brontide. Eva Spence said in an interview that Joe Nicholson wanted to pursue taking a chemistry degree at university, while Joe Thorpe's departure was more to do with personal differences.

Rolo Tomassi completed their first tour of the year as the main support for Architects on a 14 date tour. They also stated that they were entering the studio to record their third album in June, with an October release date expected. To support the album's October release Rolo Tomassi projected an 11 date headline tour of the United Kingdom in late October with Oathbreaker and Goodtime Boys. On 16 August 2012, the band announced that their new album would be titled Astraea, with the release date set to be 5 November.

In May 2013 the band did a short British tour with Bastions, the band was noted for only costing five pound a ticket for all venues. On 31 August Rolo Tomassi headlined the first year of Bridgwater based music festival Morbid Mash Up which featured over 20 other bands. In September Rolo Tomassi performed on three out of the four dates of the Japanese touring festival Reverberation Festival. In September and October, starting just three days after their Japanese performances Rolo Tomassi completed a 13 date tour of Australia with Australian bands Totally Unicorn, Safe Hands an