# Time-evolving block decimation

The time-evolving block decimation (TEBD) algorithm is a numerical scheme used to simulate one-dimensional quantum many-body systems, characterized by at most nearest-neighbour interactions. It is dubbed Time-evolving Block Decimation because it dynamically identifies the relevant low-dimensional Hilbert subspaces of an exponentially larger original Hilbert space. The algorithm, based on the Matrix Product States formalism, is highly efficient when the amount of entanglement in the system is limited, a requirement fulfilled by a large class of quantum many-body systems in one dimension.

Introduction

Considering the inherent difficulties of simulating general quantum many-body systems, the exponential increase in parameters with the size of the system, and correspondingly, the high computational costs, one solution would be to look for numerical methods that deal with special cases, where one can profit from the physics of the system. The raw approach, by directly dealing with all the parameters used to fully characterize a quantum many-body system is seriously impeded by the lavishly exponential buildup with the system size of the amount of variables needed for simulation, which leads, in the best cases, to unreasonably long computational times and  extended use of memory. To get around this problem a number of various methods have been developed and put into practice in the course of time, one of the most successful ones being the quantum Monte Carlo method (QMC). Also the density matrix renormalization group (DMRG) method, next to QMC, is a very reliable method, with an expanding community of users and an increasing number of applications to physical systems.

When the first quantum computer is plugged in and functioning, the perspectives for the field of computational physics will look rather promising, but until that day one has to restrict oneself to the mundane tools offered by classical computers. While experimental physicists are putting a lot of effort in trying to  build the first quantum computer, theoretical physicists are searching, in the field of quantum information theory (QIT), for genuine quantum algorithms, appropriate for problems that would perform badly when trying to be solved  on a classical computer, but pretty fast and successful on a quantum one. The search for such algorithms is still going, the best-known (and almost the only ones found) being the Shor's algorithm, for factoring large numbers, and Grover's search algorithm.

In the field of QIT one has to identify the primary resources necessary for genuine quantum computation. Such a resource may be responsible for the speedup gain in quantum versus classical, identifying them means also identifying systems that can be simulated in a reasonably  efficient manner on a classical computer. Such a resource is quantum entanglement; hence, it is possible to establish a distinct lower bound for the entanglement needed for quantum computational speedups.

Guifré Vidal, then at the  Institute for Quantum Information, Caltech,
has recently proposed a scheme useful for simulating a certain category of quantum systems. He asserts that "any quantum computation with pure states can be efficiently simulated with a classical computer provided the amount of entanglement involved is sufficiently restricted".
This happens to be the case with generic Hamiltonians displaying local interactions, as for example,  Hubbard-like Hamiltonians. The method exhibits a low-degree polynomial behavior in the increase of computational time with respect to the amount of entanglement present in the system. The algorithm is based on a scheme that exploits the fact that in these one-dimensional systems the eigenvalues of the reduced density matrix on a bipartite split of the system are exponentially decaying, thus allowing us to work in a re-sized space spanned by the eigenvectors corresponding to the eigenvalues we selected.

One can also estimate the amount of computational resources required for the simulation of a quantum system on a classical computer, knowing how the entanglement contained in the system scales with the size of the system. The classically (and quantum, as well) feasible simulations are those that involve systems only lightly entangled—the strongly entangled ones being, on the other hand, good candidates only for genuine quantum computations.

The numerical method is efficient in simulating real-time dynamics or calculations of ground states using imaginary-time evolution or isentropic interpolations between a target Hamiltonian and a Hamiltonian with an already-known ground state. The computational time scales linearly with the system size, hence many-particles systems in 1D can be investigated.

A useful feature of the TEBD algorithm is that it can be reliably employed for time evolution simulations of time-dependent Hamiltonians, describing systems that can be realized with cold atoms in optical lattices, or in systems far from equilibrium in quantum transport. From this point of view, TEBD had a certain ascendance over DMRG, a very powerful technique, but until recently not very well suited for simulating time-evolutions. With the Matrix Product States formalism being at the mathematical heart of DMRG, the TEBD scheme was adopted by the DMRG community, thus giving birth to the time dependent DMRG , t-DMRG for short.

Around the same time, other groups have developed similar approaches in which quantum information plays a predominant role as, for example, in DMRG implementations for periodic boundary conditions  , and for studying mixed-state dynamics in one-dimensional quantum lattice systems,. Those last approaches actually provide a formalism that is more general than the original TEBD approach, as it also allows to deal with evolutions with matrix product operators; this enables the simulation of nontrivial non-infinitesimal evolutions as opposed to the TEBD case, and is a crucial ingredient to deal with higher-dimensional analogues of matrix product states.

The decomposition of state

Introducing the decomposition of State

Consider a chain of N qubits, described by the function . The most natural way of describing   would be using the local -dimensional basis :

where M is the on-site dimension.

The trick of TEBD is to re-write the coefficients :

This form, known as a Matrix product state, simplifies the calculations greatly.

To understand why, one can look at the Schmidt decomposition of a state, which uses singular value decomposition to express a state with limited entanglement more simply.

The Schmidt decomposition

Consider the state of a bipartite system . Every such state  can be represented in an appropriately chosen basis as:

where  are formed with vectors  that make an orthonormal basis in  and, correspondingly, vectors , which form an orthonormal basis in , with the coefficients  being real and positive,   . This is called the Schmidt decomposition (SD) of a state. In general the summation goes up to . The Schmidt rank of a bipartite split is given by the number of non-zero Schmidt coefficients. If the Schmidt rank is one, the split is characterized by a product state. The vectors of the SD are determined up to a phase and the eigenvalues and the Schmidt rank are unique.

For example, the two-qubit state:

has the following SD:

with

On the other hand, the state:

is a product state:

Building the decomposition of state

At this point we know enough to try to see how we explicitly build the decomposition (let's call it D).

Consider the bipartite splitting . The SD has the coefficients  and  eigenvectors .
By expanding the 's in the local basis, one can write:

The process can be decomposed in three steps, iterated for each bond (and, correspondingly, SD) in the chain:

Step 1: express the 's in a local basis for qubit 2:

The vectors  are not necessarily normalized.

Step 2: write each vector  in terms of the at most (Vidal's emphasis)  Schmidt vectors  and, correspondingly, coefficients :

Step 3: make the substitutions and obtain:

Repeating the steps 1 to 3, one can construct the whole decomposition of state D.  The last 's are a special case, like the first ones, expressing the right-hand Schmidt vectors at the  bond in terms of the local basis at the  lattice place. As shown in, it is straightforward to obtain the Schmidt decomposition at  bond, i.e. , from D.

The Schmidt eigenvalues, are given explicitly in D:

The Schmidt eigenvectors are simply:

and

Rationale

Now, looking at D, instead of  initial terms, there are . Apparently this is just a fancy way of rewriting the coefficients , but in fact there is more to it than that. Assuming that N is even, the Schmidt rank  for a bipartite cut in the middle of the chain can have a maximal value of ; in this case we end up with at least  coefficients, considering only the  ones, slightly more than the initial ! The truth is that the decomposition D is useful when dealing with system