# Atmospheric model

In atmospheric science, an atmospheric model is a mathematical model constructed around the full set of primitive, dynamical equations which govern atmospheric motions. It can supplement these equations with parameterizations for turbulent diffusion, radiation, moist processes (clouds and precipitation), heat exchange, soil, vegetation, surface water, the kinematic effects of terrain, and convection. Most atmospheric models are numerical, i.e. they discretize equations of motion. They can predict microscale phenomena such as tornadoes and boundary layer eddies, sub-microscale turbulent flow over buildings, as well as synoptic and global flows. The horizontal domain of a model is either global, covering the entire Earth, or regional (limited-area), covering only part of the Earth.  The different types of models run are thermotropic, barotropic, hydrostatic, and nonhydrostatic.  Some of the model types make assumptions about the atmosphere which lengthens the time steps used and increases computational speed.

Forecasts are computed using mathematical equations for the physics and dynamics of the atmosphere.  These equations are nonlinear and are impossible to solve exactly. Therefore, numerical methods obtain approximate solutions.  Different models use different solution methods.  Global models often use spectral methods for the horizontal dimensions and finite-difference methods for the vertical dimension, while regional models usually use finite-difference methods in all three dimensions.  For specific locations, model output statistics use climate information, output from numerical weather prediction, and current surface weather observations to develop statistical relationships which account for model bias and resolution issues.

Types 
The main assumption made by the thermotropic model is that while the magnitude of the thermal wind may change, its direction does not change with respect to height, and thus the baroclinicity in the atmosphere can be simulated using the  and  geopotential height surfaces and the average thermal wind between them.

Barotropic models assume the atmosphere is nearly barotropic, which means that the direction and speed of the geostrophic wind are independent of height.  In other words, no vertical wind shear of the geostrophic wind.  It also implies that thickness contours (a proxy for temperature) are parallel to upper level height contours.  In this type of atmosphere, high and low pressure areas are centers of warm and cold temperature anomalies.  Warm-core highs (such as the subtropical ridge and Bermuda-Azores high) and cold-core lows have strengthening winds with height, with the reverse true for cold-core highs (shallow arctic highs) and warm-core lows (such as tropical cyclones). A barotropic model tries to solve a simplified form of atmospheric dynamics based on the assumption that the atmosphere is in geostrophic balance; that is, that the Rossby number of the air in the atmosphere is small. If the assumption is made that the atmosphere is divergence-free, the curl of the Euler equations reduces into the barotropic vorticity equation. This latter equation can be solved over a single layer of the atmosphere. Since the atmosphere at a height of approximately  is mostly divergence-free, the barotropic model best approximates the state of the atmosphere at a geopotential height corresponding to that altitude, which corresponds to the atmosphere's  pressure surface.

Hydrostatic models filter out vertically moving acoustic waves from the vertical momentum equation, which significantly increases the time step used within the model's run.  This is known as the hydrostatic approximation.  Hydrostatic models use either pressure or sigma-pressure vertical coordinates.  Pressure coordinates intersect topography while sigma coordinates follow the contour of the land.  Its hydrostatic assumption is reasonable as long as horizontal grid resolution is not small, which is a scale where the hydrostatic assumption fails.  Models which use the entire vertical momentum equation are known as nonhydrostatic.  A nonhydrostatic model can be solved anelastically, meaning it solves the complete continuity equation for air assuming it is incompressible, or elastically, meaning it solves the complete continuity equation for air and is fully compressible.  Nonhydrostatic models use altitude or sigma altitude for their vertical coordinates.  Altitude coordinates can intersect land while sigma-altitude coordinates follow the contours of the land.

History 

The history of numerical weather prediction began in the 1920s through the efforts of Lewis Fry Richardson who utilized procedures developed by Vilhelm Bjerknes.   It was not until the advent of the computer and computer simulation that computation time was reduced to less than the forecast period itself.  ENIAC created the first computer forecasts in 1950, and more powerful computers later increased the size of initial datasets and included more complicated versions of the equations of motion.  In 1966, West Germany and the United States began producing operational forecasts based on primitive-equation models, followed by the United Kingdom in 1972 and Australia in 1977.  The development of global forecasting models led to the first climate models.  The development of limited area (regional) models facilitated advances in forecasting the tracks of tropical cyclone as well as air quality in the 1970s and 1980s.

Because the output of forecast models based on atmospheric dynamics requires corrections near ground level, model output statistics (MOS) were developed in the 1970s and 1980s for individual forecast points (locations).  Even with the increasing power of supercomputers, the forecast skill of numerical weather models only extends to about two weeks into the future, since the density and quality of observations—together with the chaotic nature of the partial differential equations used to calculate the forecast—introduce errors which double every five days.  The use of model ensemble forecasts since the 1990s helps to define the forecast uncertainty and extend weather forecasting farther into the future than otherwise possible.

Initialization

Computation

A model is a computer program that produces meteorological information for future times at given locations and altitudes.   Within any model is a set of equations, known as the primitive equations, used to predict the future state of the atmosphere.  These equations are initialized from the analysis data and rates of change are determined.  These rates of change predict the state of the atmosphere a short time into the future, with each time increment known as a time step.  The equations are then applied to this new atmospheric state to find new rates of change, and these new rates of change predict the atmosphere at a yet further time into the future.  Time stepping is repeated until the solution reaches the desired forecast time.  The length of the time step chosen within the model is related to the distance between the points on the computational grid, and is chosen to maintain numerical stability.  Time steps for global models are on the order of tens of minutes, while time steps for regional models are between one and four minutes.  The global models are run at varying times into the future.  The UKMET Unified model is run six days into the future, the European Centre for Medium-Range Weather Forecasts model is run out to 10 days into the future, while the Global Forecast System model run by the Environmental Modeling Center is run 16 days into the future.

The equations used are nonlinear partial differential equations which are impossible to solve exactly through analytical methods, with the exception of a few idealized cases. Therefore, numerical methods obtain approximate solutions.  Different models use different solution methods: some global models use spectral methods for the horizontal dimensions and finite difference methods for the vertical dimension, while regional models and other global models usually use finite-difference methods in all three dimensions.  The visual output produced by a model solution is known as a prognostic chart, or prog.

Parameterization 

Weather and climate model gridboxes have sides of between  and .  A typical cumulus cloud has a scale of less than , and would require a grid even finer than this to be represented physically by the equations of fluid motion.  Therefore, the processes that such clouds represent are parameterized, by processes of various sophistication.  In the earliest models, if a column of air in a model gridbox was unstable (i.e., the bottom warmer than the top) then it would be overturned, and the air in that vertical column mixed.  More sophisticated schemes add enhancements, recognizing that only some portions of the box might convect and that entrainment and other processes occur.  Weather models that have gridboxes with sides between  and