# Spin representation

In mathematics, the spin representations are particular projective representations of the orthogonal or special orthogonal groups in arbitrary dimension and signature (i.e., including indefinite orthogonal groups). More precisely, they are two equivalent representations of the spin groups, which are double covers of the special orthogonal groups. They are usually studied over the real or complex numbers, but they can be defined over other fields.

Elements of a spin representation are called spinors. They play an important role in the physical description of fermions such as the electron.

The spin representations may be constructed in several ways, but typically the construction involves (perhaps only implicitly) the choice of a maximal isotropic subspace in the vector representation of the group. Over the real numbers, this usually requires using a complexification of the vector representation. For this reason, it is convenient to define the spin representations over the complex numbers first, and derive real representations by introducing real structures.

The properties of the spin representations depend, in a subtle way, on the dimension and signature of the orthogonal group. In particular, spin representations often admit invariant bilinear forms, which can be used to embed the spin groups into classical Lie groups. In low dimensions, these embeddings are surjective and determine special isomorphisms between the spin groups and more familiar Lie groups; this elucidates the properties of spinors in these dimensions.

Set-up

Let  be a finite-dimensional real or complex vector space with a nondegenerate quadratic form . The (real or complex) linear maps preserving  form the orthogonal group . The identity component of the group is called the special orthogonal group . (For  real with an indefinite quadratic form, this terminology is not standard: the special orthogonal group is usually defined to be a subgroup with two components in this case.)  Up to group isomorphism,  has a unique connected double cover, the spin group . There is thus a group homomorphism  whose kernel has two elements denoted , where  is the identity element.  Thus, the group elements  and  of  are equivalent after the homomorphism to ; that is,  for any  in .

The groups  and  are all Lie groups, and for fixed  they have the same Lie algebra, . If  is real, then  is a real vector subspace of its complexification , and the quadratic form  extends naturally to a quadratic form  on . This embeds  as a subgroup of , and hence we may realise  as a subgroup of . Furthermore,  is the complexification of .

In the complex case, quadratic forms are determined uniquely up to isomorphism by the dimension  of . Concretely, we may assume  and

The corresponding Lie groups are denoted  and their Lie algebra as .

In the real case, quadratic forms are determined up to isomorphism by a pair of nonnegative integers  where  is the dimension of , and  is the signature. Concretely, we may assume  and

The corresponding Lie groups and Lie algebra are denoted  and . We write  in place of  to make the signature explicit.

The spin representations are, in a sense, the simplest representations of  and  that do not come from representations of  and . A spin representation is, therefore, a real or complex vector space  together with a group homomorphism  from  or  to the general linear group  such that the element  is not in the kernel of .

If  is such a representation, then according to the relation between Lie groups and Lie algebras, it induces a Lie algebra representation, i.e., a Lie algebra homomorphism from  or  to the Lie algebra  of endomorphisms of  with the commutator bracket.

Spin representations can be analysed according to the following strategy: if  is a real spin representation of , then its complexification is a complex spin representation of ; as a representation of , it therefore extends to a complex representation of . Proceeding in reverse, we therefore first construct complex spin representations of  and , then restrict them to complex spin representations of  and , then finally analyse possible reductions to real spin representations.

Complex spin representations

Let  with the standard quadratic form  so that 

The symmetric bilinear form on  associated to  by polarization is denoted .

Isotropic subspaces and root systems

A standard construction of the spin representations of  begins with a choice of a pair 
of maximal totally isotropic subspaces (with respect to ) of  with . Let us make such a choice. If  or , then  and  both have dimension . If , then , whereas if , then , where  is the 1-dimensional orthogonal complement to . The bilinear form  associated to  induces a pairing between  and , which must be nondegenerate, because  and  are totally isotropic subspaces and  is nondegenerate. Hence  and  are dual vector spaces.

More concretely, let  be a basis for . Then there is a unique basis  of  such that

If  is an  matrix, then  induces an endomorphism of  with respect to this basis and the transpose  induces a transformation of  with

for all  in  and  in . It follows that the endomorphism  of , equal to  on ,  on  and zero on  (if  is odd), is skew,

for all  in , and hence (see classical group) an element of .

Using the diagonal matrices in this construction defines a Cartan subalgebra  of : the rank of  is , and the diagonal  matrices determine an -dimensional abelian subalgebra.

Let  be the basis of  such that, for a diagonal matrix  is the th diagonal entry of . Clearly this is a basis for . Since the bilinear form identifies  with , explicitly,

it is now easy to construct the root system associated to . The root spaces (simultaneous eigenspaces for the action of ) are spanned by the following elements:
 with root (simultaneous eigenvalue) 
 (which is in  if  with root 
 with root 
and, if  is odd, and  is a nonzero element of ,
 with root 
 with root 
Thus, with respect to the basis , the roots are the vectors in  that are permutations of

together with the permutations of

if  is odd.

A system of positive roots is given by  and (for  odd) . The corresponding simple roots are

The positive roots are nonnegative integer linear combinations of the simple roots.

Spin representations and their weights

One construction of the spin representations of  uses the exterior algebra(s)
 and/or 
There is an action of  on  such that for any element  in  and any  in  the action is given by:

where the second term is a contraction (interior multiplication) defined using the bilinear form, which pairs  and . This action respects the Clifford relations , and so induces a homomorphism from the Clifford algebra  of  to . A similar action can be defined on , so that both  and  are Clifford modules.

The Lie algebra  is isomorphic to the complexified Lie algebra  in  via the mapping induced by the covering 

It follows that both  and  are representations of . They are actually equivalent representations, so we focus on S.

The explicit description shows that the elements  of the Cartan subalgebra  act on  by

A basis for  is given by elements of the form

for  and . These clearly span weight spaces for the action of :  has eigenvalue −1/2 on the given basis vector if  for some , and has eigenvalue  otherwise.

It follows that the weights of  are all possible combinations of

and each weight space is one-dimensional. Elements of  are called Dirac spinors.

When  is even,  is not an irreducible representation:  and  are invariant subspaces. The weights divide into those with an even number of minus signs, and those with an odd number of minus signs. Both S+ and S− are irreducible representations of dimension 2m−1 whose elements are called Weyl spinors. They are also known as chiral spin representations or half-spin representations. With respect to the positive root system above, the highest weights of S+ and S− are
 and 
respectively. The Clifford action identifies ClnC with End(S) and the even subalgebra is identified with the endomorphisms preserving S+ and S−. The other Clifford module S′ is isomorphic to S in this case.

When n is odd, S is an irreducible representation of so(n,C) of dimension 2m: the Clifford action of a unit vector u ∈ U is given by 

and so elements of so(n,C) of the form u∧w or u∧w∗ do not preserve the even and odd parts of the exterior algebra of W. The highest weight of S is

The Clifford action is not faithful on S: ClnC can be identified with End(S) ⊕ End(S′), where u acts with the opposite sign on S′. More precisely, the two representations are related by the parity involution α of ClnC (also known as the principal automorphism), which is the identity on the even subalgebra, and minus the identity on the odd part of ClnC. In other words, there is a linear isomorphism from S to S′, which identifies the action of A in ClnC on S with the action of α(A) on S′.

Bilinear forms

if λ is a weight of S, so is −λ. It follows that S is i