[Experimental Researches in Electricity — Faraday — Gutenberg #55148]

a flower in his buttonhole, and he was walking beside a girl whom I recognised at once as Amy Féraud. The two other women I did not then know; but one of them, dark and beautiful, I afterwards discovered to be the famous model La Perouse. The two men who made up the party were peers of France; and if Beelzebub himself had suddenly broken from the trees I could not have been more disturbed than by this eruption of Paris into our innocent paradise. In a flash I saw the whole thing. This was some move of my guardian's. I had told Madame Ancelot that we would be by the grand pool, and Madame Ancelot's boy had led them. But M. le Vicomte was much too astute an old gentleman for subterfuge, whatever his plan might be. "Welcome!" he cried, when we were within speaking distance. "I have been searching for you. Ah, what a day! We have just come down from Paris on M. le Comte de ----'s drag. My ward, M. Patrique Mahon; M. le Comte de ----." I bowed stiffly as he introduced me to the men. "And mademoiselle?" asked the old gentleman, raising his hat and standing uncovered before Eloise. But I had no need to introduce my companion. La Perouse (oh, what a voice she had! Hard, metallic, shallow, low)--La Perouse, with a little shriek of recognition, cried out: "Marie! Why, it is Marie!" Then she kissed her, and I could have struck her on the beautiful mouth, whose voice was a voice of brass, for innocence told me she was bad, and part of Eloise's wretched past. Ah, me! If an eclipse had come over the sun, the beauty of the day could not have been more spoilt, the loveliness of spring more ruined. The stout servant-men, with the dexterity of conjurers, unpacked the great basket, spread a wide cloth, and, in a trice, a luncheon was spread out to which the Emperor himself might have sat down. There was no resisting M. le Vicomte. We had to sit down with the rest, and make a pretence to eat. But Eloise refused wine, as did I. "Ma foi!" said La Perouse. "What airs! Good champagne, too. Come, taste." "Mademoiselle prefers water," I put in; and then, unwisely: "She is not accustomed to wine." La Perouse stared at me, champagne-glass in hand, and then broke out laughing. She was about to say something, but checked herself, and turned to the chicken on her plate. But La Perouse, as the champagne worked in her wits, returned to the subject of Eloise's abstinence. In that dull brain was moving a resentment which the vulgar mind had not the power to repress. "What! not drink champagne?" said the fool for the twentieth time. "Ah, well! It was different in the days of Changarnier. How is he, by the way, the brave Changarnier?" I rose to my feet; and Eloise, as if moved by the same impulse, rose also. "Mademoiselle," said I, as I offered Eloise my arm, "does not drink champagne. It is a matter of taste with her. Did she do so, however, I am very well assured that the evil spirit in it would never prompt her to talk and act like a fool!" There was dead silence, as, with Eloise on my arm, I walked towards the trees. Then I heard the shrill laughter of the women; but I did not heed, for Eloise was weeping. "Come," I said; "forget them." "It is not they," replied Eloise. "I do not care about _them_." I knew quite well what she meant. It was the Past. Do not for a moment confuse that word "past" with conscience. Whatever sin might have been committed by the world against Eloise Feliciani, she, at heart, was sinless. No; it was just the Past, a blur of miasma from Paris, a breath of winter. "Come," I said; "forget it! All that is a bad dream that you have dreamt; all those people, those women, those men, are not real: they are things in a nightmare; they have no souls, and when they die they go nowhere--they are just ugly pictures that God wipes off a slate. This is the real thing: these trees, these birds; and they are yours for ever. I give you them; they are the best gift that money can buy." I wiped her eyes with my handkerchief. She smiled through her tears; and we pursued our way to the Pavilion, followed by the rustle of the wind in the leaves, and the song of the wood-doves--lazy, languorous, soothing--filled with the warmth and the softness of summer. When I returned to Paris that night I sought for my guardian, and found him in the smoking-room. Angry though I was with the trick he had played me, his manner was so bland and kind that I was at a loss how to begin. He it was, indeed, who began by complimenting the beauty of Eloise, her grace and her modesty. In fact, he had so much to say for her that I could not get in a word. "All the same," finished he, "I do not quite see the future of this business. You offer Mademoiselle Feliciani a home, you provide for her, your intentions are absolutely honourable, yet you do not love her. That is all very well, mind you. It is somewhat strange in the eyes of the world, but I understand the position. You are a man of heart and honour, and she is, so to speak, an old friend; but what is to be the end of it?" "I don't know," replied I. "Just so. She is not a child. It is the nature of a woman to love, to enter into life. Picking daisies in the woods of Sénart may fill a summer morning, but not a woman's life. I am not entirely destitute of the gift of appreciation, the poetry of things is not yet dead for me, and I can see, my dear Patrique, the poetry of two young people, each half a child, playing at childhood. But the garment of a child, beautiful in itself, becomes ridiculous when you dress a man in it. Impossible, in fact. In fact," finished the old gentleman, suddenly dropping metaphor and using his stabbing spear, "you are getting yourself into a position that you cannot escape from with honour; for even if you wish you cannot marry this girl, for the simple reason that Paris would not receive her as your wife." "I do not wish to marry Mademoiselle Feliciani," replied I, "nor does she dream of marrying me. I found her in wretchedness; I rescued her. I loved her as a friend. Have men and women no hearts but that they must sneer at what is natural and good? What is the barrier that divides a man from a woman so that comradeship seems impossible between them, simplicity, and all good feeling, including Christian charity?" "Sex," replied M. le Vicomte de Chatellan. CHAPTER XXV FRANZIUS MEETS ELOISE Next day, when I returned to the Pavilion of Saluce, I took a companion with me--Franzius. I called early at his wretched lodging in the Rue Dijon; the sound of his violin led me upstairs, and I found him, seated on the side of his bed, playing, his soul in Germany or dreamland. A day in the country, away from Paris, the houses, the streets! If I had offered him a day in paradise the simple soul could not have expressed more delight. "Well," I said, "it is nine o'clock. We will just have time to catch the train at Evry. Get ready and come on." He took his hat from a shelf, placed it on his head, put his violin under his arm, and declared himself ready. "But surely you are not taking your violin?" "My violin--but why not?" "Going into the country!" "But why not? Ah, my friend, it never leaves me; without it I am not I. It is myself, my soul, my heart. Ach!" "Come on--come on!" I said, laughing and pushing him and his violin before me. "Take anything you like, so long as you are happy. That's right--mind the stairs. Don't you lock your door when you go out?" "There is nothing to steal," replied Franzius simply. In the street I hailed a fiacre and bundled the violinist in, protesting. The mad extravagance of the business shocked him. He had never been in a fiacre before; even omnibuses were luxuries to this son of St. Cecilia, who had tramped the continent of Europe on foot. Yet he wanted to pay when we reached the station; and the return ticket I bought for him pained his sense of independence so much that I took the fare from him. Then he was happy--happy as a child; and I do not know what the other passengers thought of the young beau, elegantly dressed, seated beside the shabby violinist, both happy, laughing, and in the highest of spirits; the violinist, unconsciously, now and then plucking pizzicato notes from the strings of his instrument, caressing it as a man caresses the woman he loves. We walked from Evry to Etiolles under the bright May morning, under the sparkling blue, along the delightful white dusty roads, the larks singing lustily, and the wind blowing the vanishing hawthorn-blossoms upon the dust like snow. Then, at the drawbridge over the moat, Eloise was waiting for us, and we followed her into the Pavilion, Franzius with his hat crushed to his heart, bowing, the violin under his arm forgotten, his whole simple soul worshipping, very evidently, the beautiful and gracious goddess who had received us. Ah, that was the day of Franzius's life! We had déjeûner in the little garden, under the chestnut-tree alight with a thousand clusters of pink blossom. He forgot his shyness completely, and told us stories of his wanderings, unconsciously dominating the conversation and leading us hundreds of miles away from Etiolles to the forests of the Roth Alps and the Hartz. The great forests of the Vosges, so soon to resound to the drums of war and the tramping of armies, spread their perfumed shade around us as we listened. Castle Nidek, whose ruined walls still echo to the ghostly hunting-horn of Sebalt Kraft; the Rhine and its storeyed hills; the white roads of Germany; Pirmasens and the Swan Inn, with its rose-decked porch; mountain rivers, leaping waterfalls, skies turquoise-blue against the black-green armies of the high mountain pines--all spread before us, lay around us, domed us in as he talked the morning into afternoon, and the afternoon half away. What a gift of description was his; and how we listened as children may