# Theoretical and experimental justification for the Schrödinger equation

The theoretical and experimental justification for the Schrödinger equation motivates the discovery of the Schrödinger equation, the equation that describes the dynamics of nonrelativistic particles. The motivation uses photons, which are relativistic particles with dynamics described by Maxwell's equations, as an analogue for all types of particles.

Classical electromagnetic waves

Nature of light

The quantum particle of light is called a photon. Light has both a wave-like and a particle-like nature. In other words, light can appear to be made of photons (particles) in some experiments and light can act like waves in other experiments. The dynamics of classical electromagnetic waves are completely described by Maxwell's equations, the classical description of electrodynamics. In the absence of sources, Maxwell's equations can be written as wave equations in the electric and magnetic field vectors. Maxwell's equations thus describe, among other things, the wave-like properties of light. When "classical" (coherent or thermal) light is incident on a photographic plate or CCD, the average number of "hits", "dots", or "clicks" per unit time that result is approximately proportional to the square of the electromagnetic fields of the light. By formal analogy, the wavefunction of a material particle can be used to find the probability density by taking its absolute-value squared. Unlike electromagnetic fields, quantum-mechanical wavefunctions are complex. (Often in the case of EM fields complex notation is used for convenience, but it is understood that in fact the fields are real. However, wavefunctions are genuinely complex.)

Maxwell's equations were completely known by the latter part of the nineteenth century. The dynamical equations for light were, therefore, well-known long before the discovery of the photon. This is not true for other particles such as the electron. It was surmised from the interaction of light with atoms that electrons also had both a particle-like and a wave-like nature. Newtonian mechanics, a description of the particle-like behavior of macroscopic objects, failed to describe very small objects such as electrons. Abductive reasoning was performed to obtain the dynamics of massive objects (particles with mass) such as electrons. The electromagnetic wave equation, the equation that described the dynamics of light, was used as a prototype for discovering the Schrödinger equation, the equation that describes the wave-like and particle-like dynamics of nonrelativistic massive particles.

Plane sinusoidal waves

Electromagnetic wave equation

The electromagnetic wave equation describes the propagation of electromagnetic waves through a medium or in a vacuum. The homogeneous form of the equation, written in terms of either the electric field E or the magnetic field B, takes the form:

where c is the speed of light in the medium. In a vacuum, c = 2.998 × 108 meters per second, which is the speed of light in free space.

The magnetic field is related to the electric field through Faraday's law (cgs units)

Plane wave solution of the electromagnetic wave equation

The plane sinusoidal solution for an electromagnetic wave traveling in the z direction is (cgs units and SI units)

for the electric field and

for the magnetic field, where k is the wavenumber,

is the angular frequency of the wave, and  is the speed of light. The hats on the vectors indicate unit vectors in the x, y, and z directions. In complex notation, the quantity  is the amplitude of the wave.

Here

is the Jones vector in the x-y plane. The notation for this vector is the bra–ket notation of Dirac, which is normally used in a quantum context. The quantum notation is used here in anticipation of the interpretation of the Jones vector as a quantum state vector. The angles  are the angle the electric field makes with the x axis and the two initial phases of the wave, respectively.

The quantity

is the state vector of the wave. It describes the polarization of the wave and the spatial and temporal functionality of the wave. For a coherent state light beam so dim that its average photon number is much less than 1, this is approximately equivalent to the quantum state of a single photon.

Energy, momentum, and angular momentum of electromagnetic waves

Energy density of classical electromagnetic waves

Energy in a plane wave

The energy per unit volume in classical electromagnetic fields is (cgs units)

For a plane wave, converting to complex notation (and hence dividing by a factor of 2), this becomes

where the energy has been averaged over a wavelength of the wave.

Fraction of energy in each component

The fraction of energy in the x component of the plane wave (assuming linear polarization) is

with a similar expression for the y component.

The fraction in both components is

Momentum density of classical electromagnetic waves

The momentum density is given by the Poynting vector

For a sinusoidal plane wave traveling in the z direction, the momentum is in the z direction and is related to the energy density:

The momentum density has been averaged over a wavelength.

Angular momentum density of classical electromagnetic waves

The angular momentum density is

For a sinusoidal plane wave the angular momentum is in the z direction and is given by (going over to complex notation)

where again the density is averaged over a wavelength. Here right and left circularly polarized unit vectors are defined as

and

Unitary operators and energy conservation

A wave can be transformed by, for example, passing through a birefringent crystal or through slits in a diffraction grating. We can define the transformation of the state from the state at time t to the state at time  as

To conserve energy in the wave we require

where  is the adjoint of U, the complex conjugate transpose of the matrix.

This implies that a transformation that conserves energy must obey

where  is the identity operator and  is called a unitary operator. The unitary property is necessary to ensure energy conservation in state transformations.

Hermitian operators and energy conservation

If  is an infinitesimal real quantity , then the unitary transformation is very close to the identity matrix (the final state is very close to the initial state) and can be written

and the adjoint by

The factor of i is introduced for convenience. With this convention, it will be shown that energy conservation requires H to be a Hermitian operator and that H is related to the energy of a particle.

Energy conservation requires

Since  is infinitesimal, which means that  may be neglected with respect to , the last term can be omitted. Further, if H is equal to its
adjoint:

it follows that (for infinitesimal translations in time )

so that, indeed, energy is conserved.

Operators that are equal to their adjoints are called Hermitian or self-adjoint.

The infinitesimal translation of the polarization state is

Thus, energy conservation requires that infinitesimal transformations of a polarization state occur through the action of a Hermitian operator. While this derivation is classical, the concept of a Hermitian operator generating energy-conserving infinitesimal transformations forms an important basis for quantum mechanics. The derivation of the Schrödinger equation follows directly from this concept.

Quantum analogy of classical electrodynamics

The treatment to this point has been classical. However, the quantum mechanical treatment of particles follows along lines formally analogous however, to Maxwell's equations for electrodynamics. The analog of the classical "state vectors"  in the classical description is quantum state vectors in the description of photons.

Energy, momentum, and angular momentum of photons

Energy

The early interpretation is based on the experiments of Max Planck and the interpretation of those experiments by Albert Einstein, which was that electromagnetic radiation is composed of irreducible packets of energy, known as photons. The energy of each packet is related to the angular frequency of the wave by the relation

where  is an experimentally determined quantity known as the reduced Planck's constant. If there are  photons in a box of volume , the energy (neglecting zero point energy) in the electromagnetic field is

and the energy density is

The energy of a photon can be related to classical fields through the correspondence principle which states that for a large number of photons, the quantum and classical treatments must agree. Thus, for very large , the quantum energy density must be the same as the classical energy density

The average number of photons in the box in a coherent state is then

Momentum
The correspondence principle also determines the momentum and angular momentum of the photon. For momentum

which implies that the momentum of a photon is
 (or equivalently ).

Angular momentum and spin
Similarly for the angular momentum

which implies that the angul