# Tripuri culture

The Tripuri culture of North-East India has many distinctive features.

Rules

The rules followed by the Tripuris are:
 Lineage
 Property ownership
 Right to property in early era
 Right to property in the present day
 Marriage system as a whole
 Traditional dress
 Prohibition in pregnancy
 Birth rituals
 Abul suhmani
 Death rituals
 Purification bath

Lineage

The lineage in Tripuri is called sandai or bosong.

Most Tripuri groups or sub-groups are named after an animal or bird. All the sub-groups of Tripuri lineage are patriarchal.  Because the members of a lineage are related, their behavior pattern is also similar to a certain extent. The adopted son bears the lineage identity of the foster parents. The unmarried daughters belong to the lineage of their fathers or brothers. After marriage the daughter follows her husband's lineage.

Property ownership

The property of the Tripuris may be classified under two headings: 
 Ancestral property which is inherited from ancestors
 The property acquired by a person during his lifetime

Movable and immovable properties are to be included in the first category. Movable property includes ploughs and other agricultural implements, domestic animals, domestic articles, ornaments, clothing, utensils, cash money.

Right of property in early era

The right of inheritance among the Tripuris is from the father to sons.

The eldest son generally gets the major share of the inheritance. The other sons and daughters also have the right of a share of the father's property. The head of the family gives a particular share to his wife. If the wife of the deceased stays with one of her sons, he who looks after his mother will inherit her property. The married or unmarried daughters or sisters of a person are only entitled to receive property if the father or brothers desire so.

Right to property in the present day

In the present day, after the death of a man his son or sons get two-thirds share of the father's property. The remaining third is shared equally between the mother and her daughters. If the wife of a deceased lives with one of the sons or daughters, that son or daughter is entitled to inherit this property after the death of the mother. If any property is registered with the mother, then the daughters are the legal successors to their mother's property.

The father generally divides his property during his lifetime, but it is divided during the latter part of his life. Occasionally, the father is forced to divide the property to avoid a disturbance created by the adult sons. When a father marries a second time, he divides his property earlier on so as to avoid quarrelling among the sons of two wives. A share he will keep for himself to put aside for unmarried daughters and minor sons. The adopted son of a childless person has the right to inherit the property of his foster father.

If a person dies without issue his widow is entitled to inherit her deceased husband's property.

Marriage as a whole
The Tripuri marriage follows some steps and beliefs.

Hamjwk Tubui Kaimani
In this system of marriage, the negotiation between two families is made by a marriage broker. He is known as the raibai or andra in the Reang dialect. In finalizing a marriage, the parents or the guardians play the sole role. The bride or the groom has no choice. This type of marriage always take place in the house of the bridegroom.

If the girl is chosen by the parents of the boy, the guardian of the daughter demands dowry of money, ornaments etc. Among the Tripuris the bride does not bring any dowry to her father-in-law's house.  The Tripuri society is free from the dowry system. There is a trend toward expectation of a dowry at present, however.

Koksurma
Koksurma is the preliminary proposal for marriage, coming from either side of the parties. Generally, the raibai performs the brokerage in the koksurma. If the proposal is accepted by both parties, then they fix a date for a final settlement called Kokswhngmung.

Kokswhngmung
Kokswhngmung is the finalization of marriage where both sides of the party commit to get their ward marriage. The guardian of both sides sits side by side in front of two pots of rice beer called bwtwk. A bell-metal plate containing some cotton, durba, copper coin, rice, soil etc. is put in front of them to perform the rituals of Dangdua, performed by each person three times. The would-be bride then comes before the assembled persons and bows before the elders. The dates and times, terms and conditions of the marriage, bearing of expenditure etc. are finalized in this kokswhnglaimung.

Khum Phunukmung
After the finalization of the marriage there are rituals of invitation by offering betel leaf, nut and flower etc. to every family of the village. It is started from the house of the Chokdori, the village head. On the fixed date the bride is brought into the groom's house and received with much enthusiasm, and dangdua.

Aya and Ayajwk
Aya is the helper and assistant of the groom, in dressing, makeup, and procedural follow-up. Ayajwk is the counterpart for the bride.  Throughout the marriage ceremony they are to remain near by the respective person.

Bedi
A bedi is a platform on which the marriage ceremony is performed. It is made of bamboo, cane, or wood. Over the bedi seven layers of plain pieces of cloth are tied one over the other like a tent. Jari is a pot made of brass, somewhat like a kettle but elongated, that is used in carrying the secret water to be sprinkled over the bridegroom, first by the priest then by the parents and other elders. The morning rituals are performed by Ochai the priest. The ritual is called lampra uathop. A deity is worshipped along with the Twisangrongma. After the ceremony the new couple bow down before and touch the feet of each senior person in attendance, and the aged person blesses the couple with gifts called heli. Following this ceremony on the same day a grand marriage feast is served to all.

The next day of the marriage is called dolan, when a post-marriage ceremony is observed by the close relatives of both parties. The non-vegetarian dish that is served on this occasion is an important part of Tripuri marriage ceremonies.

Maitwrang beraimani
Maitwrang beraimani is the first visit after the marriage to the bride's parents. It generally occurs after three days of marriage.

Different kinds of marriages

Nok kaisa Kaimung: marriage by exchange
Sometimes marriage is arranged between two families by exchanging a boy and a girl and thus avoiding the payment of bride-price. The rituals and procedure remain almost the same.

Kharlai Kaijakmani: marriage by elopement
If a couple do not get the approval of respective parents for their desired marriage, they may decide to elope.  The boy generally takes the initiative and runs away from home. The marriage ceremony would be conducted in a supportive relative's home by performing the wathop worship.

Phuisai Tubuma: marriage by purchase
In this form of marriage, the bridegroom or his parents pay a sum of money in cash to the bride's family as her price. Subsequently, the bride's parents have less said in the marriage ceremonies than the groom's parents.

Koklam Kwrwi Kaimung: marriage by capture
This form of marriage is not very common with Tripuris. No wedding rituals are maintained except the uathop worship.

Hamjaklai Kaijakmani: marriage by love
This form of marriage is very common among the Tripuris and is becoming increasingly more popular. When a boy and girl fall in love, they bring their desire to marry to the notice of their respective parents and obtain consent, then the parents arrange the marriage. All the rituals of the wedding are observed.

Sikla sogya kaimani: child marriage
This type of marriage among the Tripuri was practiced in the past. It is becoming rare and found in remote villages only.

Chamari omor: marriage by service
This type of marriage was prevalent in Tripuri society. In this form of marriage, the groom leaves his house and goes to live in his would-be father-in-law's house. He and his bride remain there for a lifetime. All the usual wedding procedures are followed.

Chamari ompa
This form of marriage is identical with the marriage of chamari omor, the only difference being that the bridegroom is obliged to serve the parent-in-law's house for a certain period of time, generally two or three years. All other rituals remain the same.

Sundul phulmani: widow remarriage
Widow remarriage is commonly practiced in Tripuri society. A widow, widower, divorced person, or deserted woman is allowed to remarry. This type of marriage is also settled by the raibai. The guardians of each party settle the marriage in the presence of the raibai and arrange the date. The worship of the uathop is done by the ochai. The arrangements for the ceremony are low-profile.

Kaklaimani: divorce
Divorce is known as kaklaimani in Kokborok.

Divorce is permissible in Tripuri society. Husbands and wives are allowed t