# Magnetorotational instability

The magnetorotational instability (MRI) is a fluid instability that causes an accretion disk orbiting a massive central object to become turbulent.  It arises when the angular velocity of a conducting fluid in a magnetic field decreases as the distance from the rotation center increases. It is also known as the Velikhov–Chandrasekhar instability or Balbus–Hawley instability in the literature, not to be confused with the electrothermal Velikhov instability. The MRI is of particular relevance in astrophysics where it is an important part of the dynamics in accretion disks.

Gases or liquids containing mobile electrical charges are subject to the influence of a magnetic field. In addition to hydrodynamical forces such as pressure and gravity, an element of magnetized fluid also feels the Lorentz force  where  is the current density and  is the magnetic field vector. If the fluid is in a state of differential rotation about a fixed origin, this Lorentz force can be surprisingly disruptive, even if the magnetic field is very weak. In particular,  if the angular velocity of rotation  decreases with radial distance  the motion is unstable: a fluid element undergoing a small displacement from circular motion experiences a destabilizing force that increases at a rate which is itself proportional to the displacement. This process is known as the Magnetorotational Instability, or  "MRI".

In astrophysical settings, differentially rotating systems are very common and magnetic fields are ubiquitous. In particular, thin disks of gas are often found around forming stars or in binary star systems, where they are known as accretion disks. Accretion disks are also commonly present in the centre of galaxies, and in some cases can be extremely luminous: quasars, for example, are thought to originate from a gaseous disk surrounding a very massive black hole. Our modern understanding of the MRI arose from attempts to understand the behavior of accretion disks in the presence of magnetic fields; it is now understood that the MRI is likely to occur in a very wide variety of different systems.

Discovery
The MRI was first noticed in a non-astrophysical context by Evgeny Velikhov in 1959 when considering the stability of Couette flow of an ideal hydromagnetic fluid. His result was later generalized by Subrahmanyan Chandrasekhar in 1960. This mechanism was proposed by D. J. Acheson and Raymond Hide (1973) to perhaps play a role in the context of the Earth's geodynamo problem. Although there was some follow-up work in later decades (Fricke, 1969; Acheson and Hide 1972; Acheson and Gibbons 1978), the generality and power of the instability were not fully appreciated until 1991, when Steven A. Balbus and John F. Hawley gave a relatively simple elucidation and physical explanation of this important process.

Physical process

In a magnetized, perfectly conducting fluid, the magnetic forces behave in some very important respects as though the elements of fluid were connected with elastic bands: trying to displace such an element perpendicular to a magnetic line of force causes an attractive force proportional to the displacement, like a spring under tension. Normally, such a force is restoring, a strongly stabilizing influence that would allow a type of magnetic wave to propagate.  If the fluid medium is not stationary but rotating, however, attractive forces can actually be destabilizing. The MRI is a consequence of this surprising behavior.

Consider, for example, two masses, mi ("inner") and mo ("outer") connected by a spring under tension, both masses in orbit around a central body, Mc. In such a system, the angular velocity of circular orbits near the center is greater than the angular velocity of orbits farther from the center, but the angular momentum of the inner orbits is smaller than that of the outer orbits. If mi is allowed to orbit a little bit closer to the center than mo, it will have a slightly higher angular velocity. The connecting spring will pull back on mi, and drag mo forward. This means that mi experiences a retarding torque, loses angular momentum, and must fall inward to an orbit of smaller radius, corresponding to a smaller angular momentum. mo, on the other hand, experiences a positive torque, acquires more angular momentum, and moves outward to a higher orbit. The spring stretches yet more, the torques become yet larger, and the motion is unstable! Because magnetic forces act like a spring under tension connecting fluid elements, the behavior of a magnetized fluid is almost exactly analogous to this simple mechanical system. This is the essence of the MRI .

A more detailed explanation

To see this unstable behavior more quantitatively, consider the equations of motion for a fluid element mass in circular motion with an angular velocity   In general  will be a function of the distance from the rotation axis  and we assume that the orbital radius is   The centripetal acceleration required to keep the mass in orbit is ; the minus sign indicates a direction toward the center.  If this force is gravity from a point mass at the center, then the centripetal acceleration is simply  where  is the gravitational constant and  is the central mass.
Let us now consider small departures from the circular motion of the orbiting mass element caused by some perturbing force.  We transform variables into a rotating frame moving with the orbiting mass element at angular velocity  with origin located at the unperturbed, orbiting location of the mass element. As usual when working in a rotating frame, we need to add to the equations of motion a Coriolis force  plus a centrifugal force  The velocity  is the velocity as measured in the rotating frame. Furthermore, we restrict our attention to a small neighborhood near  say  with  much smaller than   Then the sum of the centrifugal and centripetal forces is

  
to linear order in   With our  axis pointing radial outward from the unperturbed location of the fluid element and our  axis pointing in the direction of increasing azimuthal angle (the direction of the unperturbed orbit), the  and  equations of motion for a small departure from a circular orbit  are:

where  and  are the forces per unit mass in the  and  directions, and a dot indicates a time derivative (i.e.,  is the  velocity,  is the  acceleration, etc.).  Provided that  and  are either 0 or linear in x and y, this is a system of coupled second-order linear differential equations that can be solved analytically.
In the absence of external forces,  and , the equations of motion have solutions with the time dependence  where the angular frequency  satisfies the equation

where  is known as the epicyclic frequency.  In our solar system, for example, deviations from a sun-centered circular orbit that are familiar ellipses when viewed by an external viewer at rest, appear instead as small radial and azimuthal oscillations of the orbiting element when viewed by an observer moving with the undisturbed circular motion.
These oscillations trace out a small retrograde ellipse (i.e. rotating in the opposite sense of the large circular orbit), centered on the undisturbed orbital location of the mass element.

The epicyclic frequency may equivalently be written  which shows that it is proportional to the radial derivative of the angular momentum per unit mass, or specific angular momentum.  The specific angular momentum must increase outward if stable epicyclic oscillations are to exist, otherwise displacements would grow exponentially, corresponding to instability.  This is a very general result known as the Rayleigh criterion (Chandrasekhar 1961) for stability. For orbits around a point mass, the specific angular momentum is proportional to  so the Rayleigh criterion is well satisfied.

Consider next the solutions to the equations of motion if the mass element is subjected to an external restoring force,   where  is an arbitrary constant (the "spring constant").  If we now seek solutions for the modal displacements in  and  with time dependence  we find a much more complex equation for 

Even though the spring exerts an attractive force, it may destabilize.  For example, if the spring constant  is sufficiently weak, the dominant balance will be between the final two terms on the left side of the equation.  Then, a decreasing outward angular velocity profile will produce negative values for  and both positive and negative imaginary values for  The negative imaginary root results not in oscillations, but in exponential growth of very small displacements.  A weak spring therefore causes the type of instability described qualitatively at the end of the previous section.  A strong spring on the other hand, will produce oscillations, as one intuitively expects.

The spring-like nature of magnetic fields
To understand the how the MRI works, we must first understand the conditions inside a perfectly conducting fluid in motion.  This is often a good approximation t