# Atom optics

Atom optics (or atomic optics) "refers to techniques to manipulate the trajectories and exploit the  wave properties
of neutral atoms". Typical experiments employ beams of cold, slowly moving neutral atoms, as a special case of a particle beam.
Like an  optical beam, the atomic beam may exhibit diffraction and interference, and can be focused with a Fresnel zone plate or a concave atomic mirror.

For comprehensive overviews of atom optics, see the 1994 review by Adams, Sigel, and Mlynek or the 2009 review by Cronin, Jörg, and Pritchard. More bibliography about Atom Optics can be found at the Resource Letter. For quantum atom optics see the 2018 review by Pezzè Smerzi Oberthaler Schmied.

History
Interference of atom matter waves was first observed by Esterman and Stern in 1930, when a Na beam was diffracted off a surface of NaCl. The short de Broglie wavelength of atoms prevented progress for many years until two technological breakthroughs revived interest: microlithography allowing precise small devices and laser cooling allowing atoms to be slowed, increasing their de Broglie wavelength. 

Until 2006, the resolution of imaging systems based on atomic beams was not better than that of an optical microscope,
mainly due to the poor performance of the focusing elements. Such elements use small numerical aperture;
usually, atomic mirrors use grazing incidence, and the reflectivity drops drastically with increase of the
grazing angle; for efficient normal reflection, atoms should be ultracold, and
dealing with such atoms usually involves magnetic, magneto-optical or optical traps.

Recent scientific publications about Atom Nano-Optics, evanescent field lenses
and ridged mirrors
show significant improvement since the beginning of the 21st century. In particular, an
atomic hologram can be realized.

See also
 Atomic nanoscope
 Electron microscope
 Quantum reflection
 Atom interferometer

References

Atomic and Optical Science Researchers at the University of Arizona: http://www.atomwave.org.
Pierre Meystre. Atom Optics 

Atomic, molecular, and optical physics