# Inductive charging

Inductive charging (also known as wireless charging or cordless charging) is a type of wireless power transfer. It uses electromagnetic induction to provide electricity to portable devices. Inductive charging is also used in vehicles, power tools, electric toothbrushes, and medical devices. The portable equipment can be placed near a charging station or inductive pad without needing to be precisely aligned or make electrical contact with a dock or plug.

Inductive charging is named so because it transfers energy through inductive coupling. First, alternating current passes through an induction coil in the charging station or pad. The moving electric charge creates a magnetic field, which fluctuates in strength because the electric current's amplitude is fluctuating. This changing magnetic field creates an alternating electric current in the portable device's induction coil, which in turn passes through a rectifier to convert it to direct current. Finally, the direct current charges a battery or provides operating power.

Greater distances between sender and receiver coils can be achieved when the inductive charging system uses resonant inductive coupling, where a capacitor is added to each induction coil to create two LC circuits with a specific resonance frequency. The frequency of the alternating current is matched with the resonance frequency, and the frequency is chosen depending on the distance desired for peak efficiency. Recent improvements to this resonant system include using a movable transmission coil (i.e., mounted on an elevating platform or arm) and the use of other materials for the receiver coil such as silver-plated copper or sometimes aluminum to minimize weight and decrease resistance due to the skin effect.

History

Induction power transfer was first used in 1894 when M. Hutin and M. Le-Blanc proposed an apparatus and method to power an electric vehicle. However, combustion engines proved more popular, and this technology was forgotten for a time.

In 1972, Professor Don Otto of the University of Auckland proposed a vehicle powered by induction using transmitters in the road and a receiver on the vehicle. In 1977, John E. Trombly was awarded a patent for an "Electromagnetically coupled battery charger." The patent describes an application to charge headlamp batteries for miners (US 4031449). The first application of inductive charging used in the United States was performed by J.G. Bolger, F.A. Kirsten, and S. Ng in 1978. They made an electric vehicle powered with a system at 180 Hz with 20 kW. In California in the 1980s, a bus was produced, which was powered by inductive charging, and similar work was being done in France and Germany around this time.

In 2006, MIT began using resonant coupling.  They were able to transmit a large amount of power without radiation over a few meters.  This proved to be better for commercial needs, and it was a major step for inductive charging.

The Wireless Power Consortium (WPC) was established in 2008, and in 2010 they established the Qi standard.  In 2012, the Alliance for Wireless Power (A4WP) and the Power Matter Alliance (PMA) were founded.  Japan established Broadband Wireless Forum (BWF) in 2009, and they established the Wireless Power Consortium for Practical Applications (WiPoT) in 2013.  The Energy Harvesting Consortium (EHC) was also founded in Japan in 2010.  Korea established the Korean Wireless Power Forum (KWPF) in 2011. The purpose of these organizations is to create standards for inductive charging. In 2018, The Qi Wireless Standard was adopted for use in military equipment in North Korea, Russia, and Germany

Application areas
Applications of inductive charging can be divided into two broad categories: Low power and high power:
 Low power applications are generally supportive of small consumer electronic devices such as cell phones, handheld devices, some computers, and similar devices which normally charge at power levels below 100 watts. The AC utility frequency of 50 or 60 hertz is often used,  or in the case of Qi-compliant devices, frequencies in the range of 87 to 205 kHz are typical. 
 High power inductive charging generally refers to inductive charging of batteries at power levels above 1 kilowatt. The most prominent application area for high power inductive charging is in support of electric vehicles, where inductive charging provides an automated and cordless alternative to plug-in charging. Power levels of these devices can range from approximately 1 kilowatt to 300 kilowatts or higher. All high-power inductive charging systems use resonated primary and secondary coils. These systems work in the long wave range with frequencies up to 130 kHz. The use of short wave frequencies can enhance the system's efficiency and size but would eventually transmit the signal worldwide. High powers raise the concern of electromagnetic compatibility and radio frequency interference.

Advantages
 Protected connections – No corrosion when the electronics are enclosed, away from water or oxygen in the atmosphere. Less risk of electrical faults such as short circuits due to insulation failure, especially where connections are made or broken frequently.
 Low infection risk – For embedded medical devices, the transmission of power via a magnetic field passing through the skin avoids the infection risks associated with wires penetrating the skin.
 Durability – Without the need to constantly plug and unplug the device, there is significantly less wear and tear on the socket of the device and the attaching cable.
 Increased convenience and aesthetic quality.
 Automated high power inductive charging of electric vehicles allows for more frequent charging events and consequently an extension of driving range.
 Inductive charging systems can be operated automatically without dependence on people to plug and unplug. This results in higher reliability.
 Automatic operation of inductive charging in roads theoretically allows vehicles to run indefinitely.

Disadvantages

The following disadvantages have been noted for low-power (i.e., less than 100 watts) inductive charging devices, and may not apply to high-power (i.e., greater than 5 kilowatts) electric vehicle inductive charging systems.
 Slower charging – Due to the lower efficiency, devices take 15 percent longer to charge when supplied power is the same amount.
 More expensive – Inductive charging also requires drive electronics and coils in both device and charger, increasing the complexity and cost of manufacturing.
 Inconvenience – When a mobile device is connected to a cable, it can be moved around (albeit in a limited range) and operated while charging. In most implementations of inductive charging, the mobile device must be left on a pad to charge, and thus can't be moved around or easily operated while charging.  With some standards, charging can be maintained at a distance, but only with nothing present between the transmitter and receiver.
 Compatible standards – Not all devices are compatible with different inductive chargers.  However, some devices have started to support multiple standards.

Inefficiency has other costs besides longer charge times.  Inductive chargers produce more waste heat than wired chargers, which may negatively impact battery longevity. An amateur 2020 analysis of energy use conducted with a Pixel 4 found that a wired charge from 0 to 100 percent consumed 14.26 Wh (watt-hours), while a wireless charging stand used 19.8 Wh, an increase of 39%. Using a generic brand wireless charging pad and mis-aligning the phone produced consumption up to 25.62 Wh, or an 80% increase. The analysis noted that while this is not likely to be noticeable to individuals, it has negative implications for greater adoption of smartphone wireless charging.

Newer approaches reduce transfer losses through the use of ultra thin coils, higher frequencies, and optimized drive electronics. This results in more efficient and compact chargers and receivers, facilitating their integration into mobile devices or batteries with minimal changes required. These technologies provide charging times comparable to wired approaches, and they are rapidly finding their way into mobile devices.

Safety
An increase in high-power inductive charging devices has led to researchers looking into the safety factor of the electromagnetic fields (EMF) put off by larger inductor coils. With the recent interest in the expansion of high power inductive charging with electric cars, an increase in health and safety concerns has arisen. To provide a larger distance of coverage people would in return need a larger coil for the inductor. An electric car with this size conductor would need about 300 kW from a 400 V battery to emit enough charge in order to charge the vehicle.  This much exposure of electromagnetic waves to the skin of a human could prove harmful if not met within the right conditions. Exposure limits can be satisfied even when the tran