# Devika Chawla

Devika Chawla, known by her Artist Identity "Devika" is a US based singer / songwriter of Indian origin known for her unique voice and soulful performances.  While she has trained in Hindustani classical music, she has always been at the forefront of fusion between Indian folk/classical melody & lyrics and a western sound.

Some of her signature tracks include "Kehnde Ne Naina", "Barkha Bahaar" and "Kothay Uttay" from her solo albums and "Ek Tera Pyar" and "Dil" in collaboration with Bohemia The Punjabi Rapper.

Early life and education
Devika started vocal music training in New Delhi, India when she was eight years old. She continued her training and advanced to Ragas and Hindustani classical music.

She moved to the United States for her undergraduate study in Computer Science at Georgetown University. It was during these years that she experimented with a fusion of Indian classical music and western compositions and teamed up with Holmes Ives and performed vocals for the album titled Satyriasis. After graduation she resumed her formal training in Hindustani classical music.

Career
She released two top selling solo albums.  The first was "Devika" and the second was "Saari Raat" in collaboration with Shahi Hasan from Vital Signs, Noor Lodhi & Manesh Judge.  She has performed on various Sufi, Hip-hop and Pop tracks while collaborating with artists including Mike Klooster of Smash Mouth, Bohemia the Punjabi Rapper and Sarod maestros Amaan and Ayaan Ali Bangash.  

Her tracks have been featured on various thematic albums including Sony’s "Teri Deewani" & "Sufiaana – The Complete Sufi Experience", and Saregama’s "Colours - Sufi Ke Anek Rang" featuring renowned artists such as Ustad Nusrat Fateh Ali Khan, Rahat Fateh Ali Khan, A.R. Rahman and others.  Her rendition of the Bollywood classic "Tujhse Naraaz Nahin" was released in collaboration with Saregama Music.

She is also the first Indian vocalist to be featured on Apple’s iMovie in the Bollywood trailer.  Her tracks have been featured on iTunes playlists like Love at First Sight, The A List – Indian Pop, as well as on playlists like Raga Lounge on Spotify. Her track "Jab Se Piya" created in collaboration with Holmes Ives, was remixed by Karsh Kale, Midival Punditz, Bombay Dub Orchestra and distributed by Six Degrees Records and featured on The Buddha Bar XXIII by DJ Ravin. "Jab Se Piya” was also submitted for Grammy consideration for the Best Global Music Performance category.

Discography
 Satyriasis (Shaken Not Stirred Records, 2001) with Holmes Ives
 Devika (2007) with Shahi Hasan, Manesh Judge, Noor Nodhi, Anshuman Chandra
 Teri Deewani (2007) a compilation with Artists including A. R. Rahman, Nusrat Fateh Ali Khan, Kailash Kher, Rabbi and Rahat Fateh Ali Khan
 Ek Kaagaz (2008) an Internet-Only advertising supported single with Pralay Bakshi and Saazmantra.
 Da Rap Star (2009) with Bohemia
 Saari Raat (2009) with Shahi Hasan, Manesh Judge and Noor Lodhi
 Colours : Sufi Ke Anek Rang (2009) a compilation with Artists including A. R. Rahman, Nusrat Fateh Ali Khan, Rahat Fateh Ali Khan and Sonu Nigam
 Sufiaana - The Complete Sufi Experience : (2010) a compilation with Artists including A.R. Rahman, Nusrat Fateh Ali Khan, Rahat Fateh Ali Khan
 Judaiyan : (2010) a compilation with Artists including A.R. Rahman
 Javeda Sufiaana : (2010) a compilation with Artists including Kailash Kher, Rahat Fateh Ali Khan and others.
 Bijuri - The Single (2011) with Zohaib Kazi from Coke Studio Pakistan
 Lounge Nirvana (2012) a compilation with Artists including A.R. Rahman, Rahul Sharma
 Phir Ek Tera Pyar (2020) Bohemia ft Devika *Remake of ik tera pyar - 2007)

References

External links
Devika's Official Website

Indian women pop singers
Indian women singer-songwriters
Indian singer-songwriters
Punjabi-language singers
Georgetown University College of Arts & Sciences alumni
Living people
Year of birth missing (living people)
Singers from Delhi
Women musicians from Delhi