# Resonance fluorescence

Resonance fluorescence is the process in which a two-level atom system interacts with the quantum electromagnetic field if the field is driven at a frequency near to the natural frequency of the atom.

General theory
Typically the photon contained electromagnetic field is applied to the two-level atom through the use of a monochromatic laser. A two-level atom is a specific type of two-state system in which the atom can be found in the two possible states. The two possible states are if an electron is found in its ground state or the excited state. In many experiments an atom of lithium is used because it can be closely modeled to a two-level atom as the excited states of the singular electron are separated by large enough energy gaps to significantly reduce the possibility of the electron jumping to a higher excited state. Thus it allows for easier frequency tuning of the applied laser as frequencies further off resonance can be used while still driving the electron to jump to only the first excited state. Once the atom is excited, it will release a photon with the same energy as the energy difference between the excited and ground state. The mechanism for this release is the spontaneous decay of the atom. The emitted photon is released in an arbitrary direction. While the transition between two specific energy levels is the dominant mechanism in resonance fluorescence, experimentally other transitions will play a very small role and thus must be taken into account when analyzing results. The other transitions will lead to emission of a photon of a different atomic transition with much lower energy which will lead to "dark" periods of resonance fluorescence.

The dynamics of the electromagnetic field of the monochromatic laser can be derived by first treating the two-level atom as a spin-1/2 system with two energy eigenstates which have energy separation of ħω. The dynamics of the atom can then be described by the three rotation operators, ,,, acting upon the Bloch sphere. Thus the energy of the system is described entirely through an electric dipole interaction between the atom and field with the resulting hamiltonian being described by

 .

After quantizing the electromagnetic field, the Heisenberg Equation as well as Maxwell's equations can then be used to find the resulting equations of motion for  as well as for , the annihilation operator of the field,

,

where  and  are frequency parameters used to simplify equations.

Now that the dynamics of the field with respect to the states of the atom has been described, the mechanism through which photons are released from the atom as the electron falls from the excited state to the ground state, Spontaneous Emission, can be examined. Spontaneous emission is when an excited electron arbitrarily decays to the ground state emitting a photon. As the electromagnetic field is coupled to the state of the atom, and the atom can only absorb a single photon before having to decay, the most basic case then is if the field only contains a single photon. Thus spontaneous decay occurs when the excited state of the atom emits a photon back into the vacuum Fock state of the field . 
During this process the decay of the expectation values of the above operators follow the following relations

,

.

So the atom decays exponentially and the atomic dipole moment shall oscillate. The dipole moment oscillates due to the Lamb shift, which is a shift in the energy levels of the atom due to fluctuations of the field.

It is imperative, however, to look at fluorescence in the presence of a field with many photons, as this is a much more general case. This is the case in which the atom goes through many excitation cycles. In this case the exciting field emitted from the laser is in the form of coherent states . This allows for the operators which comprise the field to act on the coherent state and thus be replaced with eigenvalues. Thus we can simplify the equations by allowing operators to be turned into constants. The field can then be described much more classically than a quantized field normally would be able to. As a result, we are able to find the expectation value of the electric field for the retarded time.

,

where  is the angle between  and .

There are two general types of excitations produced by fields. The first is one that dies out as , while the other one reaches a state in which it eventually reaches a constant amplitude, thus .

Here  is a real normalization constant,  is a real phase factor, and  is a unit vector which indicates the direction of the excitation.

Thus as , then

.

As  is the Rabi frequency, we can see that this is analogous to the rotation of a spin state around the Bloch sphere from an interferometer. Thus the dynamics of a two-level atom can be accurately modeled by a photon in an interferometer. 
It is also possible to model as an atom and a field, and it will, in fact, retain more properties of the system such as lamb shift, but the basic dynamics of resonance fluorescence can be modeled as a spin-1/2 particle.

Resonance fluorescence in the Weak Field
There are several limits that can be analyzed to make the study of resonance fluorescence easier. The first of these is the approximations associated with the Weak Field Limit, where the square modulus of the Rabi frequency of the field that is coupled to two-level atom is much smaller than the rate of spontaneous emission of the atom. This means that the difference in the population between the excited state of the atom and the ground state of the atom is approximately independent of time. 
If we also take the limit in which the time period is much larger than the time for spontaneous decay, the coherences of the light can be modeled as 
, where  is the Rabi frequency of the driving field and  is the spontaneous decay rate of the atom. Thus it is clear that when an electric field is applied to the atom, the dipole of the atom oscillates according to driving frequency and not the natural frequency of the atom. If we also look at the positive frequency component of the electric field, 

we can see that the emitted field is the same as the absorbed field other than the difference in direction, resulting in the spectrum of the emitted field being the same as that of the absorbed field. The result is that the two-level atom behaves exactly as a driven oscillator and continues scattering photons so long as the driving field remains coupled to the atom.

The weak field approximation is also used in approaching two-time correlation functions. In the weak-field limit, the correlation function  can be calculated much more easily as only the first three terms must be kept. Thus the correlation function becomes 
 as .

From the above equation we can see that as  the correlation function will no longer depend on time, but rather that it will depend on . The system will eventually reach a quasi-stationary state as 
It is also clear that there are terms in the equation that go to zero as . These are the result of the Markovian processes of the quantum fluctuations of the system.
We see that in the weak field approximation as well as , the coupled system will reach a quasi-steady state where the quantum fluctuations become negligible.

Resonance fluorescence in the Strong Field

The Strong Field Limit is the exact opposite limit to the weak field where the square modulus of the Rabi frequency of the electromagnetic field is much larger than the rate of spontaneous emission of the two-level atom. When a strong field is applied to the atom, a single peak is no longer observed in fluorescent light's radiation spectrum. Instead, other peaks begin appearing on either side of the original peak. These are known as side bands. The sidebands are a result of the Rabi oscillations of the field causing a modulation in the dipole moment of the atom. This causes a splitting in the degeneracy of certain eigenstates of the hamiltonian, specifically  and  are split into doublets. This is known as dynamic Stark splitting and is the cause for the Mollow triplet, which is a characteristic energy spectrum found in Resonance fluorescence.

An interesting phenomena arises in the Mollow triplet where both of the sideband peaks have a width different than that of the central peak. If the Rabi frequency is allowed to become much larger than the rate of spontaneous decay of the atom, we can see that in the strong field limit  will become .
From this equation it is clear where the differences in width of the peaks in the Mollow triplet arise from as the central peak has a width of  and the sideband peaks have a width of  where  is the rate of spontaneous emission for the atom. Unfortunately this cannot be used to calculate a steady state solution as  and  in a steady state solution. Thus the spectrum would vanish in a steady state solution, which is not the actual case.

The solution that does allow for a steady state solution must take the form of a two-time