# Lalla Latifa

Princess Lalla Latifa, née Fatima Amahzoune, (Born ; December 31, 1946) is the widow of King Hassan II of Morocco, and the mother of King Mohammed VI, Princesses Meryem, Asma, Hasna, and Prince Moulay Rachid.

Biography
Lalla Latifa was born under the name Fatima Amahzoune in 1946, but is called Latifa Hammou to avoid confusion with her cousin, Lalla Fatima Amahzoune. 

Lalla Latifa is of the Zayane tribe and comes from an important Amazigh family. She is the daughter of a provincial governor, her father is Hassan ould Mouha ou Hammou Zayani, Pasha of Khenifra and Adel of the Zayanes. Her grandfather is the famous Mouha ou Hammou Zayani. She married Hassan II on November 9, 1961 in a double nuptial ceremony with Lalla Lamia as-Solh the bride of Prince Moulay Abdallah of Morocco.

She is maternal half-sister to General Mohamed Medbouh (the latter's father being of the Gzennaya Riffian tribe) who was executed – along with 9 other high-ranking military officers – for having widely participated in the 1971 failed coup d'état attempt against Hassan II, which took place during the King's forty-second birthday party in his summer palace. The execution took place on 13 July 1971 and was broadcast live on state TV.

Lalla Latifa never held a public role and remained a non-public member of the royal family, as per peculiar protocol. She was referred to by the Moroccan media as "Mother of the Royal Children".

From 2000, she lived in France where she possesses a residence in Neuilly-sur-Seine and often returned to Morocco. In 2019, she settled permanently in Morocco, in Marrakesh.

Private life 
She married Hassan II on November 9, 1961 and became from then on Her Highness Princess Lalla Latifa. Five children were born from their union, including the current monarch Mohammed VI:

 Princess Lalla Meryem (August 26, 1962);
 King Mohammed VI (August 21, 1963), he was known as Sidi Mohammed when he was crown prince;
 Princess Lalla Asma (September 29, 1965);
 Princess Lalla Hasna (November 19, 1967);
 Prince Moulay Rachid (June 20, 1970).

After the death of Hassan II, she remarried to Mohamed Mediouri, the bodyguard of the late Monarch and former security chief of the royal palace.

Tribute 
In 2018, in her honour, King Mohammed VI inaugurated the “Mosque of H.H. Princess Lalla Latifa” in Salé. This mosque is located in Hay Essalam and has an area of 1,200 square meters. It has the capacity to accommodate more than 1,800 worshippers. It also has a Koranic school, two prayer rooms and accommodation for the imam and the muezzin. The design of the mosque is a combination of traditional Andalusian architecture with a modern addition.

Notes

References

Living people
1940s births
Moroccan royalty
Berber Moroccans
People from Khenifra
Princesses by marriage
Mothers of monarchs
Remarried royal consorts