# Soliton (optics)

In optics, the term soliton is used to refer to any optical field that does not change during propagation because of a delicate balance between nonlinear and dispersive effects in the medium. There are two main kinds of solitons:
 spatial solitons: the nonlinear effect can balance the  dispersion. The electromagnetic field can change the refractive index of the medium while propagating, thus creating a structure similar to a graded-index fiber. If the field is also a propagating mode of the guide it has created, then it will remain confined and it will propagate without changing its shape
 temporal solitons: if the electromagnetic field is already spatially confined, it is possible to send pulses that will not change their shape because the nonlinear effects will balance the dispersion. Those solitons were discovered first and they are often simply referred as "solitons" in optics.

Spatial solitons

In order to understand how a spatial soliton can exist, we have to make some considerations about a simple convex lens. As shown in the picture on the right, an optical field approaches the lens and then it is focused. The effect of the lens is to introduce a non-uniform phase change that causes focusing. This phase change is a function of the space and can be represented with , whose shape is approximately represented in the picture.

The phase change can be expressed as the product of the phase constant and the width of the path the field has covered. We can write it as:

where  is the width of the lens, changing in each point with a shape that is the same of  because  and n are constants. In other words, in order to get a focusing effect we just have to introduce a phase change of such a shape, but we are not obliged to change the width. If we leave the width L fixed in each point, but we change the value of the refractive index  we will get exactly the same effect, but with a completely different approach.

This has application in graded-index fibers: the change in the refractive index introduces a focusing effect that can balance the natural diffraction of the field. If the two effects balance each other perfectly, then we have a confined field propagating within the fiber.

Spatial solitons are based on the same principle: the Kerr effect introduces a self-phase modulation that changes the refractive index according to the intensity:

if  has a shape similar to the one shown in the figure, then we have created the phase behavior we wanted and the field will show a self-focusing effect. In other words, the field creates a fiber-like guiding structure while propagating. If the field creates a fiber and it is the mode of such a fiber at the same time, it means that the focusing nonlinear and diffractive linear effects are perfectly balanced and the field will propagate forever without changing its shape (as long as the medium does not change and if we can neglect losses, obviously). In order to have a self-focusing effect, we must have a positive , otherwise we will get the opposite effect and we will not notice any nonlinear behavior.

The optical waveguide the soliton creates while propagating is not only a mathematical model, but it actually exists and can be used to guide other waves at different frequencies. This way it is possible to let light interact with light at different frequencies (this is impossible in linear media).

Proof
An electric field is propagating in a medium showing optical Kerr effect, so the refractive index is given by:

We recall that the relationship between irradiance and electric field is (in the complex representation)

where  and  is the impedance of free space, given by
 

The field is propagating in the  direction with a phase constant . About now, we will ignore any dependence on the y axis, assuming that it is infinite in that direction. Then the field can be expressed as:

where  is the maximum amplitude of the field and  is a dimensionless normalized function (so that its maximum value is 1) that represents the shape of the electric field among the x axis. In general it depends on z because fields change their shape while propagating.
Now we have to solve the Helmholtz equation:

 

where it was pointed out clearly that the refractive index (thus the phase constant) depends on intensity. If we replace the expression of the electric field in the equation, assuming that the envelope  changes slowly while propagating, i.e.

the equation becomes:

Let us introduce an approximation that is valid because the nonlinear effects are always much smaller than the linear ones:

now we express the intensity in terms of the electric field:

the equation becomes:

We will now assume  so that the nonlinear effect will cause self focusing. In order to make this evident, we will write in the equation 
Let us now define some parameters and replace them in the equation:
 , so we can express the dependence on the x axis with a dimensionless parameter;  is a length, whose physical meaning will be clearer later.
 , after the electric field has propagated across z for this length, the linear effects of diffraction can not be neglected anymore.
 , for studying the z-dependence with a dimensionless variable.
 , after the electric field has propagated across z for this length, the nonlinear effects can not be neglected anymore. This parameter depends upon the intensity of the electric field, that's typical for nonlinear parameters.
 

The equation becomes:

this is a common equation known as nonlinear Schrödinger equation. From this form, we can understand the physical meaning of the parameter N:
 if , then we can neglect the nonlinear part of the equation. It means , then the field will be affected by the linear effect (diffraction) much earlier than the nonlinear effect, it will just diffract without any nonlinear behavior.
 if , then the nonlinear effect will be more evident than diffraction and, because of self phase modulation, the field will tend to focus.
 if , then the two effects balance each other and we have to solve the equation.

For  the solution of the equation is simple and it is the fundamental soliton:

where sech is the hyperbolic secant. It still depends on z, but only in phase, so the shape of the field will not change during propagation.

For  it is still possible to express the solution in a closed form, but it has a more complicated form:

It does change its shape during propagation, but it is a periodic function of z with period .

For soliton solutions, N must be an integer and it is said to be the order or the soliton. For  an exact closed form solution also exists; it has an even more complicated form, but the same periodicity occurs. In fact, all solitons with  have the period . Their shape can easily be expressed only immediately after generation:

on the right there is the plot of the second order soliton: at the beginning it has a shape of a sech, then the maximum amplitude increases and then comes back to the sech shape. Since high intensity is necessary to generate solitons, if the field increases its intensity even further the medium could be damaged.

The condition to be solved if we want to generate a fundamental soliton is obtained expressing N in terms of all the known parameters and then putting :

that, in terms of maximum irradiance value becomes:

In most of the cases, the two variables that can be changed are the maximum intensity  and the pulse width .

Curiously, higher-order solitons can attain complicated shapes before returning exactly to their initial shape at the end of the soliton period. In the picture of various solitons, the spectrum (left) and time domain (right) are shown at varying distances of propagation (vertical axis) in an idealized nonlinear medium. This shows how a laser pulse might behave as it travels in a medium with the properties necessary to support fundamental solitons. In practice, in order to reach the very high peak intensity needed to achieve nonlinear effects, laser pulses may be coupled into optical fibers such as photonic-crystal fiber with highly confined propagating modes. Those fibers have more complicated dispersion and other characteristics which depart from the analytical soliton parameters.

Generation of spatial solitons
The first experiment on spatial optical solitons was reported in 1974 by Ashkin and Bjorkholm in a cell filled with sodium vapor. The field was then revisited in experiments at Limoges University in liquid carbon disulphide and expanded in the early '90s with the first observation of solitons in photorefractive crystals, glass, semiconductors and polymers. During the last decades numerous findings have been reported in various materials, for solitons of different dimensionality, shape, spiralling, colliding, fusing, splitting, in homogeneous media, periodic systems, and waveguides. Spatials solitons are also referred to as self-trapped optical beams and their formation is normally also accompanied by a self-written