# Hellenic Police

The Hellenic Police (, Ellinikí Astynomía, abbreviated ) is the national police service and one of the three security forces of the Hellenic Republic. It is a large agency with responsibilities ranging from road traffic control to counter-terrorism. Police Lieutenant General Lazaros Mavropoulos currently serves as Chief of the Hellenic Police. He replaced Konstantinos Skoumas. The Hellenic Police force was established in 1984 under Law 1481/1-10-1984 (Government Gazette 152/A/8-10-1984) as the result of the fusion of the Gendarmerie (, Chorofylakí, 1833-1984) and the Cities Police (, Astynomía Póleon, 1921-1984) forces.        

According to Law 2800/2000, the Hellenic Police is a security organ whose primary aims are:
 Ensuring peace and order as well as citizens' unhindered social development, a mission that includes general policing duties and traffic safety.
 Prevention and suppression of crime as well as protecting the state and its democratic form of government within the framework of the constitutional order, a mission which includes the implementation of public and state security policy.
 Prevent illegal entry and exit of foreigners in and out of Greece and control of compliance with the provisions related to the entry, exit, residence and work of foreigners in the country, a mission that includes the implementation of foreigners and border protection policy duties.
The Hellenic Police is constituted along central and regional lines. The force takes direction from the Minister for Citizen Protection.

Structure

Overview
The Hellenic Police force is headed in a de jure sense by the Minister for Citizen Protection, however, although the Minister sets the general policy direction of Greece's stance towards law and order as a whole, the Chief of Police is the day-to-day head of the force. Underneath the Chief of Police is the Deputy Chief of Police whose role is largely advisory, though in the event of the Chief of Police being unable to assume his duties the Deputy Chief will take over as the interim head. Regular meetings are also held with the Council of Planning and Crisis Management who are drawn from the heads of the main divisions of the police force and raise relevant issues with the Chief of Police him/herself. Underneath the Deputy Chief of Police is the Head of Staff, who, in addition to acting as 'Principal' of the Police Academy, heads the Security and Order Branch, Administrative Support Branch and Economical-Technical and Information Support Branch. Equal in rank to the Head of Staff are the General Inspectors of Southern and Northern Greece, who have under their jurisdiction the regional services of both these divisions. The Security and Order Branch is by far the most important, and includes the General Police Division, the Public Security Division and the State Security Division, among others.

Regional jurisdiction
Greece is divided into two sectors for policing, both headed by an Inspector General. These sectors both contain several regions, headed by an Inspector General.

Northern Greece
 East Macedonia and Thrace region
 Central Macedonia region
 West Macedonia region
 Thessaly region
 Epirus region
 North Aegean region

Southern Greece
 Central Greece region
 Peloponnese region
 West Greece region
 Ionian Islands region
 South Aegean region
 Crete region

Special services 
The Hellenic Police force has several special services divisions under the authority of the Chief of Police and working in conjunction with regional and other police sectors where necessary, these are as follows:
 
 Crime Prevention and Suppression Groups ( - ) 
 Cyber Crime Division ( - ) 
 Special Violent Crime Squad ( - ) 
 Forensic Science Division ( - ) 
 Division of Internal Affairs ( - ) 
 International Police Cooperation Division ( - )
 Informatics Division ( - )  
 Special Suppressive Antiterrorist Unit ( - )  
 Department of Explosive Devices Disposal ( - ) 
 Hellenic Police Air Force Service ( - ) 
 Zeta Group (motorcycle police) ( - )  
 Groups of Bicycle-mounted Police (motorcycle police) ( - )   
 Action Group (motorcycle police) ( - , former Force of Control Fast Confrontation -  - ) 
 Special Guards ( - ) 
 Border Guards ( - )
 Traffic Police (also known as Road Traffic Police) ( - ) 
 Units for the Reinstatement of (Public) Order (Riot Police, or Police Riot Units) ( - ) 
 Group of Police Dogs ( - )    
 University Institutions Protection Groups ( - )   
 Tourist Police ( - ). With the law 6450/1935, Government Gazette 14/A/13-1-1935, was founded the Tourist Police Directorate () which initially was Directorate of the Greek National Tourism Organization (EOT) having police officers from Hellenic Gendarmerie and the Cities Police. The Tourist Police Directorate of EOT was abolished by the Mandatory Law 297/1968, Government Gazette 38/A/22-2-1968, replacing by two Tourist Police directorates, one of the Hellenic Gendarmerie Headquarters and one of the Cities Police Headquarters respectively. With the law 1481/1984, Government Gazette 152/A/8-10-1984, the Tourist Police was abolished and its services assigned to the local police stations and units making in-house tourist offices in which were abolished thereafter by the Presidential Decree 508/1989, Government Gazette 216/A/3-10-1989. In 1993 Tourist Police re-founded. With the articles 101 and 105 of the Presidential Decree 7/2017, Government Gazette 14/A/9-2-2017, created the Stations and Units of the Tourist Police at the Hellenic Police Directorates at several prefectures.

Personnel

Ranks of the Hellenic Police Force

History

19th century   

Though there was what constituted a police force under the provisional Government of Greece during the Greek War of Independence, the first organized police force in Greece was the Greek Gendarmerie which was established in 1833 after the enthronement of King Otho. It was at that time formally part of the army and under the authority of the Defence Ministry (later the entirety of the organization including the Police Academy was brought under its authority). A city police force was also established but its role remained a secondary one in comparison to the Army's role (mainly dealing with illegal gambling, a severe problem at the time), several foreign advisers (particularly from Bavaria, which emphasized elements of centralization and authoritarianism), were also brought in to provide training and tactical advice to the newly formed Police force. The main task of the police force under the army as a whole during this period was firstly to combat theft but also to contribute to the establishment of a strong executive government.

The army's links to the police and the nature of the structure of the police force and its hierarchy (that of being similar to the army) was maintained throughout the 19th century for a number of reasons. Largely the socio-political unrest that characterized the period including disproportionate poverty, governmental oppression, sporadic rebellions and political instability. As a result of this, as well as the input of the armed forces, the police force remained a largely conservative body throughout the period, there was also a certain amount of politicization during training as the police force were trained in military camps.

20th century

In 1906 the Greek police force underwent its first major restructuring at an administrative level. It acquired its own educational and training facilities independent of those of the army (though still remaining titularly part of the armed forces). Despite this the Gendarmerie still maintained a largely military based structured based on its involvement in the Macedonian Struggle, and the Balkan and First World Wars, as a result it tended to neglect civilian matters and was partially unresponsive to the needs of Greek society at the time. However, together with the establishment of a civilian city police force for Athens in 1920 (which would eventually be expanded to the entire country), it set a precedent for further change that came in 1935 because of rapid technological, demographic and economic changes which helped it to become more responsive to civilian policing needs of the time.

However, modernization of the police force was stunted by the successive periods of political instability. The dictatorship of Ioannis Metaxas, compounded with both the Second World War and the Greek Civil War led to a retardation of reform throughout the late 1930s and early to mid-1940s. After the war however, British experts were brought in to help reform the police along the lines of the British Police, as a result, after 1946 the police force ceased to be a part of the Defence Ministry, however even then it did not abandon its military features and was still prevalently a military based institution. The Civil war of the period also contributed to excesses on both sides (government forces and the guerillas of the communist led Democratic Army of Greece), torture and abuse