# Solar Shears

Solar Shears is the third studio album and fourth album overall by Scottish Celtic fusion band Shooglenifty. After the critical acclaim given to their underground second album A Whisky Kiss (1996), the band left Greentrax Recordings and signed to Vertical Records in the UK and Compass Records in the US and hired long time producer Jim Sutherland to produce their new album. The album sees the band expand their self-described "acid croft" sound, featuring a wide range of musical influences such as worldbeat, Eastern music, African music, psychedelic music, bluegrass, breakbeat and techno fused with a traditional Scottish Celtic music sound. With this album, Sutherland introduced many unorthodox approaches to the band's music, including looped beats, scratching, electro-atmospherics and sampled 'discovered sounds' from industrial clanks and rumbles to snatches of telephone conversation and recorded pelican crossing announcements.

The album was released in August 2000 the UK by Vertical Records and in January 2001 by Compass Records in the US, their first release for the label. The album was the band's first album to be released in the United States. It had received generally positive reviews from critics, complimenting its eclectic sound and wide array of influences. One critic called it "interesting and innovative," and another "a landmark album." Many also praised Sutherland's production work, although some were less favourable towards it. The band left Vertical Records and established their own label, Shoogle Records, for the follow-up, The Arms Dealer's Daughter (2003).

Background and recording
Shooglenifty released their first album Venus in Tweeds in 1994 on Greentrax Recordings, four years after the band formed. The album was widely critically acclaimed. In 1995, they toured the album. One reviewer that "they took Sidmouth by storm" despite "the strange lunch time sit down concert" that was booked. They released their second album A Whisky Kiss in 1996. Considered a "groundbreaking album", it was a critical success. The first two albums saw the band develop their Celtic fusion sound. Commenting on the band's sound in his Solar Shears review, George Graham said the band's "musical amalgamation" involving "taking traditional Scottish elements, minus the bagpipes, and mixing them with techno-dance-ambient-rave rhythms, synthesizers, samples and general sonic mutations" leads to "a curious but very danceable blend." The duo toured the album throughout 1996, and their performance at Selwyn Hall, Box, Wiltshire was released as Live at Selwyn Hall in November 1996. The band left Greentrax Recordings, their only prior label and who only released the band's albums in Europe, and signed to Vertical Records in the United Kingdom and Compass Records in the United States for the release of the subsequent album.

As of 2000, the members of Shooglenifty were Malcolm Crosby on guitar, mandolin and sitar, Angus R Grant on fiddle, Garry Findlayson on banjo and a self-invented electrified instrument he named the "banjax," bassist Conrad Ivitsky, who also performs harmonica and berimbau and the percussionist James Mackintosh, an "all-important drummer in a style that generally is done without drums", credited with "drums, percussion, bass, psaltry, programming and samples". The band recorded the new album the same year with their ongoing producer-engineer Jim Sutherland in his Edinburgh studio, who handled similar duties on their previous albums. Mackintosh said that "the studio was so small and computer-oriented, it didn’t allow any more than two people playing together at the same time." An avid sonic experimenter, trying all manner of effects devices and unconventional recording techniques, Sutherland is credited on the album as performing the synthesiser and for programming. He was acknowledged as "helping this relatively conventionally instrumented band into a wild sonic ride on the album."

For the recording process itself, the band arrived with their live arrangements and Sutherland "ripped them apart". They were multi-tracked, then deconstructed and "shredded down." The album is typical of Sutherland touches, notably including many sampled 'found sounds', such as the Schipol Airport and Bern Railway Station, which are dropped into the mix. Bassist Conrad Invitsky, recalling the recording process, said that Sutherland "has a whole array of toys and he tends to play with all of them. His favourite things at the moment are a small Tandy mike, worth very little, and a little cheap plastic red speaker. On the track "Igor" he recorded all the drums through it and then used various compressors, processors and equalizers to get a fat, juicy sound." Sutherland was a perfectionist during production, trying out all the available plugs, processors and files to find sounds.

Music

Keith Whitham of The Living Tradition, comparing the album to their previous album A Whisky Kiss, said "in those four years essentially very little has changed. They've unquestionably become more experimental, Solar Shears is a quantum jump in production terms for the group." The album continues the band's self-coined "acid croft" sound, featuring a blend between Scottish Celtic music, various other world styles and contemporary genres such as techno and ambient. Several critics pointed out an Eastern music influence, and another bluegrass, whilst The Chicago Tribune called it a "trippy blend of tradition, psychedelia and instrumental hip-hop." The band made liberal use of distortion pedals and effects boxes in addition to pillaging DJ techniques, working in all types of looped beats, scratching, electro-atmospherics and sampled 'discovered sounds' from industrial clanks and rumbles to snatches of telephone conversation and recorded pelican crossing announcements.

George Graham said that the band "is a mostly instrumental group whose members are adept as traditional musicians on fiddle, guitar, mandolin, and even banjo. But they deliver their music through a battery of electronic devices from distortion boxes to synthesizers to sampling machines that create grooves that would fit in on the dance floor of a rave." He said that on Solar Shears, "in general," "it's the kind of album that you can't help but being drawn into, with its irresistibly danceable grooves and sometimes downright wacky combinations of sounds and influences, including some hints of Middle Eastern sensibility." Ann Flint of Rambles commented "I was surprised to hear a variety of styles and instruments all jumbled into the music, and all making for an interesting, yet confusing, mix." Describing the album as "creatively combining Scottish folk underpinnings with techno and worldbeat, Dave Sleger of Allmusic called it "akin to a modern musical jaunt around the world," where, although the band's homeland Celtic roots are most obvious, hints of Mid-Eastern, Far Eastern, and American bluegrass are evident, with a foundation that alternates between groove-heavy techno or ambient with progressive rock & roll arrangements."

The first track, "The Hijab", is said to epiotmize the band's "psychedelic techno-Celt sounds. While the music clearly hints at Celtic, the swirl of sounds from the distorted mandolin to the drum loops makes for kind of other-worldly dance groove." "Schuman's Leap" is "eclectic" and "a bit more Scottish sounding" and is dominated by Grant's fiddle, "though it is bathed in a sea of electronic cacophony." The fiddle also features prominently on the more laidback "August". "Delighted" combines traditional influences with a funky rhythm, and was described by George Graham as "one of the most downright danceable pieces on this generally danceable album." "Maggie Ann of Clachnabrochen" is the only vocal track, featuring "telephone-like" vocals. Eastern influence features on "Igor's", described by Graham as "a kind of Hungarian techno Celt dervish." "Kinky Haroosh", which features less of a Celtic influence, also features an ominous, Eastern sound and "a collection of vaguely unsettling sounds". In contrast, the closing track "Bjork's Chauffer" [sic], a two-part medley of reels with mostly initially acoustic instrumentalism, is "perhaps the most Celtic-sounding track", before the "techno-Celt" fusion of the band's usual sound returns.

Release
Solar Shears was released in August 2000 in the UK by Vertical Records and on 9 January 2001 in the United States by Compass Records, their first album on both labels. It was their first album released in the United States. It became one of Music Scotland's top sellers in 2000, 2001 and 2002. The album was promoted by a website, which one publication noted was "in itself is very telling because it confirms the new age/avant garde nature of this group. Instead of wasting our time and the paper and print of putting information for the listeners onto the CD insert, which is customary, the group has a stylized meadow-scene with the group (one assumes) posed o