[Experimental Researches in Electricity — Faraday — Gutenberg #55148]

close, and the road threaded the edges of the great forest. I knew the Forest of Sênart, which lies quite close to the Château de Saluce, but the Forest of Sênart was tame as a flower-garden compared with this. The air was filled with the perfume and the singing and sighing of the great pine trees, the carriage went almost without sound over the carpet of pine-needles, and once, in the deepest part, where all was green gloom and dancing points of light, my father called a halt and we sat for a moment to listen. You could hear the leagues of silence, and then, like the rustling of a lady's skirt, came the wind sighing across the tree-tops and loudening to the patter of falling fir-cones, and dying away again and leaving the silence to herself. The bark of a fox, the far-off cry of a jay, instantly peopled the place for my childish mind with the people of Grimm and Hoffmann, Father Barbel, the beasts that talked, and the robbers of the forest, more mysterious and fascinating than gnomes. "Listen!" said my father. Mournful, faint, and far away came the notes of a horn. "They are hunting in the forest," said my father; and, at the words, I could see in the gloom of the tree-caverns the phantom of the flying game pursued by the phantom of the ghostly huntsman, bugle to lips and cheeks puffed out, a picture in the fantastic tapestry that children weave from the colours and the sounds of life. Then we drove on. It was long past four, and I was drowsy with the fresh air, half drugged with the odour of the pine trees, when we reached the gates of the park surrounding the schloss. They were opened for us by a jäger, an old man in a green uniform, who saluted as we passed. Joubert whipping up the horses, we passed along the great avenue of elm trees. The park, under the late afternoon sun, lay swathed in light, beautiful and so spacious that the far-off deer browsing in the sunshine seemed the denizens of their natural home. I was not drowsy now, I was sitting erect by my father, my heart was filled with the wildest exaltation--mystery and enchantment surrounded me. I could have cried aloud with the wonder of it all; for I had been here before. CHAPTER IV ELOISE "You have been here before?" Who does not know that mysterious greeting with which, when we turn the corner of some road, the prospect meets us? Only a few years ago Charcot assured me that this strange sensation of the mind is a result of inequality in the rhythm of thought, a mechanical accident affecting one side of the brain. I accepted his explanation with a smile. Seated now by my father as we dashed along the broad avenue, my heart was on fire. I knew that at the turning just before us, the turning where the avenue bent upon itself, the house would burst upon us in full view. Unable to contain myself, scarce knowing what I did, I jumped on the front seat, and, standing, holding on to Joubert's coat, I waited. The carriage turned the corner of the drive, the house broke into view, and my dream vanished. It was like being recalled to consciousness from some happy vision by a blow in the face. I could not in the least tell what sort of house it was that I expected to see, but I could tell that the house before me was not--it. Vast and grey and formal, the Schloss Lichtenberg stood back-grounded by waving pine-trees; above it, coiling to the wind, the flag of Prussia, proclaiming that the king was a guest, floated in the evening sunshine. Before the huge porch, trampling the gravel, the horses of a hunting party were reined in; the hunters were dismounting. They had been hawking; and on the gloved wrists of the green-coated jägers the hooded falcons shook their little bells. "The King is here!" said my father, when he saw the flag. The horses of the hunters were being led away, and most of the party had disappeared into the house when we drew up before the door. Only two people stood to greet us on the steps, Baron Carl von Lichtenberg and a man--a great man, with a dominating face, and hooded eyes that never wavered, never lowered, eyes direct, far-seeing, and fearless as the eyes of an eagle. I was in a terrible fright. Those words, "The King is here," had thrown me in consternation. Though my father was a close friend of Napoleon, I had never been brought into contact, as yet, with that enigmatical person. I knew nothing of courts; and the idea that I was to sleep under the same roof as the King of Prussia, and be spoken to by him, perhaps, filled my imaginative mind with such a panic that I quite forgot my ghostly dread of Baron von Lichtenberg. I thought the big man with the strange eyes was the King. He was not the King. He was Bismarck. Bismarck! Good heavens! How little we know of a man till we have seen him in his everyday mood! Bismarck slapped my father on the back--he had all the good-humour and boisterous manner of a great schoolboy--as he accompanied us up the steps. He had met my father several times before, and liked him, as everyone liked him. And in the vast hall of the schloss, hung with trophies of the battle and the chase, I stood by, forgotten, whilst my father, in the midst of a group of gentlemen, stood talking to the boisterous great man, whose hard voice and tremendous personality dominated the scene. I have said that Bismarck's voice was hard. It was, but it was not a mean or commonplace voice; it was as full of force as the man, and you never forgot it, once you heard it. A large party of guests were at the schloss; and I, standing alone, felt very much alone indeed--shy, and filled with fear of the King. I was standing like this, when from the door of a great room opening upon the hall came a little figure skipping. Gay as a beam of sunshine, she came into the vast and gloomy hall. She wore a blue scarf, white dress, frilled pantalettes, and shoes with crossed straps over her tiny insteps. She glanced at me as she passed, making straight for Bismarck, whose coat she plucked at. "Another time--another time!" growled he, letting drop a hand for the sunbeam to play with whilst he continued his conversation with the others. But I noticed that, despite his hardness and seeming indifference, the big hand, with the seal-ring on the little finger, caressed the child's hand; but she wanted more than this. Swinging around, still clasping his hand, but pouting, and with a finger to her lips, her eyes rested on me. I had forgotten the King now; a flood of bashfulness overwhelmed me, and, as I stood there holding my képi in one hand, I, mesmerised by the figure in pantalettes before me, made a stiff little bow. Dropping Bismarck's hand, she made a little curtsey, and came skipping to me across the shining floor. "And you, too, are a soldier?" said she, speaking in French. "Bon jour, M. l'Officier!" "Bon jour, mademoiselle!" "My name is Eloise," said the apparition of light. "Do you like my dress?" "Oui, mademoiselle!" She pursed her lips. "Oui, mademoiselle? Oh, how dull you are! Now, if I wert thou, and thou wert I, know you what I would have said?" "Non, mademoiselle." "Non, mademoiselle! Oh, how droll you are. I would have said: 'Mademoiselle, your toilet is ravishing!' Now say it." "Mademoiselle, your toilet is ravishing." She laughed with pleasure at having made me repeat the words. Despite her conversation, she had no touch of the old-fashioned, or the pert, or the objectionable about her. Brimming over with life, pure from its source, fresh as a daisy, sparkling as a dewdrop, sweetness was written upon her brow, across that ineffable mark of purity with which God stamps His future angels. "And your name?" said she. "Patrick," I replied. "Pawthrick," said she, trying to put her small mouth round the word. "I cannot say it. I will call you Toto. Come with me," leading me by the sleeve, "and I will introduce you to my mother. She is here"--drawing towards the door of the room from whence she had come--"in here. Do you know why I call you Toto?" "Non, mademoiselle." "He was my rabbit, and he died," said Eloise, as we entered a great salon where several ladies were seated conversing. Toward one of these ladies, more beautiful in my eyes than the dawn, Eloise led me. "Maman," said she, "this is Toto." The Countess Feliciani, for that was the name of the mother of Eloise, smiled upon us. I dare say we made a quaint and pretty enough pair. She was perhaps, thirty--the Countess Feliciana, a woman of Genoa, blue-eyed and golden-haired, and beautiful--Ah! when a blonde is beautiful, her beauty transcends the beauty of all brunettes. I bowed, she spoke to me, I stammered. She put my awkwardness down to bashfulness, no doubt, but it was not bashfulness. I was in love with the Countess Feliciani, stricken to the heart at first sight. The love of a child of nine for a beautiful woman of thirty! How absurd it seems, but how real, and what a mystery! I swear that the love I had for that woman, love that haunted me for a long, long time, was equal in strength to the love of a full-grown man, with this difference: that it was immaterial, and, as far as my conscience tells me, utterly divorced from earthly passion. "Now go and play," said the Countess. And Eloise led me away, I knew not whither. CHAPTER V I SEE MYSELF, NOT KNOWING But to the mind of a child the moment is everything. Had I been a man, my inamorata would have driven me to solitude and cigars. Being what I was, supper pushed her image to one side for the moment. Such a supper! Served specially for the pair of us in a little room, once, I suppose, some lady's boudoir, for the walls were hung with blue silk, and the ceiling was painted with flowers and cupids. "Where is Carl?" asked Eloise of the German woman who served us. "Carl has been naughty," replied she. "Carl must remain in his room till the Baron forgives him." This woman, by name Gretel, was tall, angular, and hard of face. I did not care