[Experimental Researches in Electricity — Faraday — Gutenberg #55148]

condition of a hysterical woman, so does a touch here. The button of Joubert's foil sent a tingle down my arm, proclaiming that the spot had been reached. Then I returned the compliment. We practised for half an hour, and again on the next day. And day followed day, till the 4th of July broke over Paris, cloudless and perfect. I was up early, and at ten o'clock I called upon De Brissac at his rooms, the Rue Helder. "Ah!" said he, "I'm glad to see you." "How so?" replied I, for his manner indicated something more than an ordinary greeting. "Well, as a matter of fact," replied he, "I heard last night--in fact, it was generally spoken of on the Boulevards--that you had arranged the matter amicably with the Baron von Lichtenberg." "That I had arranged the matter?" "People say you have apologised to him." "I apologise? Why, my dear sir, it was he who insulted me! He struck me on the shoulder with his glove. How, then, could I apologise?" "Not for that, but for the occurrence at the Mirlitons. So it is a canard?" "The wildest." "Ah, I thought so. And I think I know who set it flying--De Coigny." "I would not be surprised; he is an old enemy of mine." "I am certain of it," said De Brissac, "For M. de Champfleury, who is acting with me also as your second, told me that the report came to a friend of his from the mouth of M. de Coigny." "De Brissac," I said, "bring with you another friend--someone not indisposed to De Coigny--to-morrow." "Why?" "M. de Coigny----" Then I stopped, for the determination I had come to was of such a nature that I thought it best to leave the declaration of it till we were on the ground. "Why?" asked again De Brissac. "Oh, just as a spectator. It will be worth his while, for, if I mistake not, there will be something worth seeing to-morrow morning at seven o'clock in the Avenue of the Minimes, just by the pond, for that is, I believe, our place of meeting." De Brissac bowed. "I will bring a friend," said he. Little did I think of the surprising thing that friend would see; and little did De Brissac dream that the duel in which he was to take part would be noticeable above all other duels in the history of duelling even unto this day. "Till to-morrow, at seven, then," said I. "Till to-morrow," replied De Brissac. Then I took my departure. The Vicomte, before starting on his visit to Auvergne, had cleared his money and his property out of Paris as far as possible, but he had left the hotel in the Place Vendôme "all standing," as the sailors say. To have removed his furniture, his horses, and his equipages would have been to declare his hand; and if by any chance the storm had not burst and France had emerged from her difficulties, the man who had taken shelter, or, in plainer words, taken flight, would have found a very curious welcome on his return to the beloved Boulevards. He had foresees everything, even the chance of success, and he had prepared for everything, always with his mind's eye on failure. So I had a stable full of horses at my disposal, and a house full of servants; all the bills were paid; there was unlimited credit, and I had ten thousand francs in my pocketbook, which he had left with me in case of eventualities. I returned from De Brissac's to the Place Vendôme, ordered out a britzka and a pair of swift horses, and told the coachman to take me to Etiolles. I wished to shake hands with Franzius and kiss Eloise again. I had also determined to tell them of what was to happen on the morrow. We passed through Bercy, and retook the same road I had taken that morning in May when I had gone down to make arrangements for Eloise's reception at the Pavilion. It was the same road, but dressed now in the glory of summer. Heavens! when I think of that road, so peaceful, the houses wearing such a contented look, the flowers in the garden, the little children playing on the doorsteps; that road so soon to resound to the tramp of the German hordes, and the drums of war, the rolling of artillery and baggage-wagons--when I think of that scene of peace and what followed! And now it is all so far away, so many summers have re-dressed that road again; and what of it all remains? Only an old story with which Father Maboeuf bores the drinkers at the Grape Inn, of Champrosay; a tale which old men in Germany tell the grandchildren; a song or two. Scarcely that. When I reached the Pavilion, Franzius and Eloise were not there. Madame Ancelot said they had taken money and food with them, and "gone off." They often did this, sometimes for a couple of days: the gipsy that was in Franzius' feet required a change. This strange pair, who were now more than ever like lovers, would "go off," spend days in the open, and stop at village inns at night. Franzius had infected his companion with the love of freedom. He was now famous. Another man in his position would have been at Biarritz or Trouville, basking in the social sun, but the only sun desired by Franzius was the sun of heaven. He refused to be lionised. A Bohemian to the ends of his fingers, a gipsy to the soles of his boots, brown as a berry with the sun and open air, carrying his violin under his arm: had you met him on a country road, you would never have suspected him to be Franzius, the composer of "Undine," who, had he chosen, could, with a few sweeps of his bow on a concert platform, have gained two thousand francs on a summer's afternoon. "They did not say when they would be back?" "No," replied Madame Ancelot; "but they won't be back to-day, or maybe to-morrow: they took a ham with them." "Ah!" "And a chicken. It was in a basket that madame carried. They went a way through the woods, but that leads everywhere; and one can't say whether they passed last night at Champrosay or at some cottage. For myself, I believe they sometimes sleep in the woods, and don't trouble about houses at all." To sleep in God's open air seemed the last act of madness to Madame Ancelot, who, a peasant born and bred, was accustomed, by experience and from tradition, to sleep in a bedroom almost hermetically sealed. I had myself suspected the Franzius' of sleeping on occasion in barns and hayricks, but I said nothing. I was depressed at not finding the two people I loved most on earth, for it was now quite beyond chance that I would meet them before to-morrow morning; and after to-morrow morning---- Ah, well--after to-morrow morning---- I left the Pavilion and walked into the château gardens. These gardens, beloved by Eloise, kept our house in the Place Vendôme supplied with flowers. They were very old. M. de Sartines and M. de Maupeon had walked here amidst the roses, discussing State intrigues; the full skirts of the Duchesse de Gramont had swept that lawn; and on that stone seat, under the great fig-trees' cave-like shelter, the Princesse de Guemenée had sat amidst brocaded cushions, and there had received the news of the Duc de Choiseul's disgrace; and far beyond that went the history of these walks, these lawns, these fountains playing in the sun; these old, old walls, warmed by the suns of two hundred summers; rich red walls, moss-lined, to which the peach-trees still clung as they had clung when La Vallière was still a girl, when La Fontaine was still a man, and Monsieur Fouquet held his court at Vaux. No poet has written such lovely things as Time had written here in those three lovely books--the rose garden, the sunk garden, and the Dutch garden of Saluce; books whose leaves in summer were ever being turned over by the idle fingers of the wind. Years of desolation had completed their charm, just as years of death the charm of some vanished poet's works. Peopled with ghosts and flowers, voices of fountains and voices of birds, walking there alone on a summer's day one would scarcely have dared to call out, lest some silvery voice made answer, or some white hand from amidst the rose-bushes, some hand once whiter than the white rose, some voice once sweeter than the voices of the birds. "And Marianne de l'Orme, how is she--the Austrian, and she whom they call the Flower of Light? Diane de Christeuil, Colombe de Gaillefontaine, Aloise de Gondalaurier, sweet-named ghosts: where are ye?" "Who knows?" would reply the breeze in the rose-bushes. "They are here, they are here," the birds in the trees. Here had walked, in times long past, the ladies of the house of Saluce. This family, from which I drew half my being, had for me a charm and mystery beyond expression. I was a Mahon, all my traditions were Irish; yet I was linked with this family, of whom all were dead, this family whose stately history went back into the remote past. I had never seen my mother; I had never seen a living Saluce; they were all vanished. Nothing remained but their pictures and their names, yet I had come from them in part. They were my ancestors, and my likeness had walked the earth, in the form of Philippe de Saluce, over two hundred years before I was born; and my likeness in the form of Philippe de Saluce had---- We know what he had done. The doors of the château were open, and some workmen were busy in the hall, repairing the oakwork. They were talking and laughing, and their voices had set the echo chattering in the gallery above. Marianne seemed mocking them; and as I gave them good-day and examined their work her voice seemed mocking mine. Then I left the men, and came upstairs to look at the place once again. I passed from corridor to corridor, and at last found the turret-room whither I had come that day with Eloise. It was just the same, everything in exactly the same place, even to the books on the table. I examined them: some were quite modern, drawings by Gavarni and De Musset's poems; some were more antique. Amongst them was a work in gilded boards, the history of the Saluce family, written by one Armand de Saluce, in the year 1820, and dedicated rather fulsomely to