# Inostrancevia

Inostrancevia is an extinct genus of large carnivorous therapsids which lived during the Late Permian in what is now European Russia and South Africa. The first known fossils of this gorgonopsian were discovered in the Northern Dvina, where two almost complete skeletons were exhumed. Subsequently, several other fossil materials were discovered in various oblasts, and these finds will lead to a confusion about the exact number of valid species in the country, before only three of them were officially recognized : I. alexandri, I. latifrons and I. uralensis. More recent research carried out in South Africa has discovered fairly well-preserved remains of the genus, being attributed to the species I. africana. The whole genus is named in honor of Alexander Inostrantsev, professor of Vladimir P. Amalitsky, the paleontologist who described the taxon.

Inostrancevia is the biggest known gorgonopsian, the largest fossil specimens indicating an estimated size between  and  long. The animal is characterized by its robust skeleton, broad skull and a very advanced dentition, possessing large canines, the longest of which can reach  and probably used to shear the skin off its prey. Like most other gorgonopsians, Inostrancevia had a particularly large jaw opening angle, which would have allowed to deliver fatal bites. 

First regularly classified as close to African taxa such as Gorgonops or rubidgeines, phylogenetic analyses published since 2018 consider it to belong to a group of derived Russian gorgonopsians, now being classified alongside the genera Suchogorgon, Sauroctonus and Pravoslavlevia. According to the Russian and South African fossil records, the faunas where Inostrancevia is recorded were fluvial ecosystems containing many tetrapods, where it turns out to have been the main predator.

Research history

Recognized species 
During the 1890s, Russian paleontologist Vladimir Amalitsky discovered freshwater sediments dating from the Upper Permian in Northern Dvina, Arkhangelsk Oblast, northern European Russia. The locality, known as PIN 2005, consists of a creek with sandstone and lens-shaped exposures in a bank escarpment, containing many particularly well-preserved fossil skeletons. This type of fauna from this period, previously known only from South Africa and India, is considered as one of the greatest paleontological discoveries of the late 19th and early 20th centuries. After the preliminary reconnaissance of the place, Amalitsky conducts systematic research with his companion , and sent several of his findings to Warsaw, Poland, in order to be prepared there. The exhumations of the fossils then lasted until 1914, when the research stopped due to the start of the World War I. The fossils discovered within the site will subsequently be moved to the Museum of Geology and Mineralogy of the Russian Academy of Sciences. All the fossils listed were not prepared, and more than 100 tons of concretions were promised for new discoveries by the museum in question.

The multiple administrative activities and difficult conditions during Amalitsky's last years have severely hampered his fossil research, leading to his unexpected death in 1917. However, among all the fossils identified before his death are two remarkably complete skeletons of large gorgonopsians, cataloged PIN 1758 and PIN 2005/1578 (the latter of which would later be recognized as the lectotype of the genus). After identification, he assigned the two specimens to a new genus and species, which he named Inostranzevia alexandri. The genus name was already proposed by Amalitsky long before its official description, which was published posthumously in 1922. Although he did not provide the etymology of the term in his descriptions, the full name of the taxon is named in honor of the renowned geologist Alexander Inostrantsev, who was Amalitsky's teacher himself. The two skeletons were placed under the property of the Institute of Paleontology of the Russian Academy of Sciences. However Amalitsky's article generally describes all the fossil discoveries made in the Northern Dvina, and not Inostrancevia itself, the article mentioning that further research on this gorgonopsian is subject to research.

It was in 1927 that one of Amalitsky's colleagues, , published the first formal description of the genus. In his monograph he names several additional species, and revises in detail the morphology of the two known skeletons of I. alexandri. Of all the named species, only I. latifrons was the only one recognized as a clearly distinct species within the genus, being based on skulls discovered within Arkhangelsk Oblast as well as a very incomplete skeleton from the village of Zavrazhye, located in Vladimir Oblast. The specific epithet latifrons comes from the Latin latus "broad" and frōns "forehead", in reference to the size and the more robust cranial constitution than that of I. alexandri. In his book, Pravoslavlev also changed the typography of the name "Inostranzevia" to "Inostrancevia". This last term has since entered into universal usage and must be maintained according to the rule of article 33.3.1 of the ICZN. Although Pravoslavlev's work was of a major importance, a re-examination of the skeletal anatomy is needed in order to broaden the understanding of the animal's biology.

In 1974, Leonid Tatarinov described the third species, I. uralensis, based on rare remains of part of the skull from an individual smaller than the other two recognized species. The specific epithet uralensis refers to the Ural River, located in Orenburg Oblast, where the holotype specimen of the taxon was found.

The fourth known species, I. africana, was discovered from two specimens found between 2010 and 2011 respectively by Nthaopa Ntheri and John Nyaphuli at Nooitgedacht Farm in the Karoo Basin, South Africa. The two known specimens, holotype NMQR 4000 and paratype NMQR 3707, are recorded in the Balfour Formation, and more specifically in the Daptocephalus Assemblage Zone, from where they are dated to between 254 and 251.9 millions years ago. In 2023, Christian F. Kammerer and his colleagues publish a revision which unexpectedly confirms that these specimens belong to the genus Inostrancevia, which is a great first, because the genus was previously reported only in Russia. However, these specimens have some differences with the Russian species, being classified in the newly erected species I. africana, the specific epithet referring to Africa, the continent from which the taxon lived. The article officially describing this animal is mainly concerned with the stratigraphic significance of the finds and is only a brief introduction to the anatomy of the new fossil material, the latter being subjects for a study to be published later.

Formerly assigned species

Due to the poor quality of preservation of some Inostrancevia fossils, several specimens were therefore incorrectly found to belong to separate taxa. Only four species are recognized today, with three (I. alexandri, I. latifrons and I. uralensis) from Russia and one (I. africana) from South Africa.

In his 1927 monograph, Pravoslavlev names two additional species of the genus Inostrancevia: I. parva and I. proclivis. In 1940, the paleontologist Ivan Yefremov expressed doubts about this classification, and considered that the holotype specimen of I. parva should be viewed as a juvenile of the genus and not as a distinct species. It was in 1953 that Boris Pavlovich Vyuschkov completely revised the species named for Inostrancevia. For I. parva, he moves it to a new genus, which he names Pravoslavlevia, in honor of the original author who named the species. Although being a distinct and valid genus, Pravoslavlevia turns out to be a closely related taxon. Also in his article, he considers that I. proclivis is a junior synonym of I. alexandri, but remains open to the question of the existence of this species, arguing his opinion with the insufficient preservation of type specimens. This taxon will be definitively judged as being conspecific to I. alexandri in the revision of the genus carried out by Tatarinov in 1974.

Also in is work, Pravoslavlev names another genus of gorgonopsians, Amalitzkia, with the two species it includes: A. vladimiri and A. annae, both named in reference to the pair of paleontologists who carried out the work on the first specimens known of I. alexandri. In 1953, Vjuschkov discovered that the genus Amalitzkia is a junior synonym of Inostrancevia, renaming A. vladimiri to I. vladimiri, before the latter was itself recognized as a junior synonym of I. latifrons by later publications. For some unclear reason, Vjuschkov refers A. annae as a nomen nudum, when his description is quite viable. Just like A. vladimiri, A. annae will be synonymized with I. latifrons by Tatarinov in 1974.

Other species belonging to distinct lineages were sometimes inadvertently classified in the genus Inostrancevia. For example, in 1940, Efremov classi