# WLCM

WLCM (1390 AM) is a commercial radio station licensed to Holt, Michigan and serving the Lansing-East Lansing metropolitan area.  It airs a Christian talk and teaching format and is owned by the Christian Broadcasting System headed by Jon Yinger.  The studios are on Lawrence Highway in Charlotte, Michigan.  

WLCM operates from two transmitter locations, both using a directional antennas to protect other stations on 1390 AM from interference.  During the day it broadcasts with 5,000 watts from Charlotte, using a two-tower array.  At night, it broadcasts from a 4,500-watt transmitter in Holt, with a four-tower array.

Programming
Programming for the station comes from the Christian Broadcasting System and includes a mix of shows aimed at a conservative Christian audience.  Program hosts include Adrian Rogers, John MacArthur, Charles Stanley, Joyce Meyer, J. Vernon McGee, David Jeremiah, Alistair Begg and James Dobson.  It also carries a nationally syndicated conservative talk show hosted by Bill O'Reilly and a health show hosted by Dr. Asa Andrew.  

Updates are provided by SRN News.  WLCM is also an affiliate of the Notre Dame Fighting Irish football radio network.

History
The station signed on the air on .  It was founded by McLean and Craig Davids as WCER. The call letters stood for Charlotte and Eaton Rapids.  WCER was a typical small town station with middle of the road (MOR) music, local news and features.  WCER's FM station at 92.7 later became the original frequency of legendary classic rocker WMMQ, and is now WLMI at 92.9.

In 1979, WCER-FM switched to an automated Adult Contemporary music format with the call sign WMMQ.  The following year the AM station was sold to Sharon Communications and the call sign became WGWY.  The call letters stood for Where God Wants You and the station had a Contemporary Christian format. In 1983, the format changed to traditional Christian music. Throughout both formats, the programming included the Farm Report, which gave grain, livestock, and other agricultural pricing and news.  There was also local news and sports that included live, on-site broadcasts; music; weather readings from ticker-tape; regional, state, and national news from ticker-tape; and music spun from vinyl 78s and 45s, as well as from cassettes. Pre-programmed shows purchased from sources such as National Public Radio member stations, were played both from cassettes as well as live. Non-musical advertisements were written and performed by staff, which included everyone from the station manager to the receptionist. Air time for the AM station was from 4:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m. Throughout this time period, the WGWY and WMMQ shared facilities at the Charlotte studio, although the stations were separately owned and operated.

In 1986 the FM call sign was changed to WLNF.

ERC Media purchased the station in 1992 and began a short-lived country music format with the call sign WNNY. The next year the station was purchased by Jon Yinger who switched it back to a religious format as WLCM.  WLCM stands for Lansing's Christian Messenger.

References

Sources 
Michiguide.com - WLCM History
Diane Faulkner, on-air pseudonym at WGWY, Kaye Quinn, was one of the broadcasters on WGWY from 1982 through 1983 and is now a broadcaster at 89.9 WJCT's Radio Reading Service, a National Public Radio affiliate, in Jacksonville, Florida.

External links

LCM-FM
Radio stations established in 1956
1956 establishments in Michigan
LCM-FM