# Molecular Hamiltonian

In atomic, molecular, and optical physics and quantum chemistry, the molecular Hamiltonian  is the Hamiltonian operator representing the energy of the electrons and nuclei in a molecule.  This operator and the associated Schrödinger equation play a central role in computational chemistry and physics for computing properties of molecules and aggregates of molecules, such as thermal conductivity, specific heat, electrical conductivity, optical, and magnetic properties, and reactivity.

The elementary parts of a molecule are the nuclei, characterized by their atomic numbers, Z, and the electrons, which have negative elementary charge, −e.  Their interaction gives a nuclear charge of Z + q, where , with N equal to the number of electrons. Electrons and nuclei are, to a very good approximation, point charges and point masses. The molecular Hamiltonian is a sum of several terms: its major terms are the kinetic energies of the electrons and the Coulomb (electrostatic) interactions between the two kinds of charged particles.  The Hamiltonian that contains only the kinetic energies of electrons and nuclei, and the Coulomb interactions between them, is known as the Coulomb Hamiltonian. From it are missing a number of small terms, most of which are due to electronic and nuclear spin.

Although it is generally assumed that the solution of the time-independent Schrödinger equation associated with the Coulomb Hamiltonian will predict most properties of the molecule, including its shape (three-dimensional structure), calculations based on the full Coulomb Hamiltonian are very rare. The main reason is that its Schrödinger equation is very difficult to solve. Applications are restricted to small systems like the hydrogen molecule.

Almost all calculations of molecular wavefunctions are based on the separation of the Coulomb Hamiltonian first devised by Born and Oppenheimer. The nuclear kinetic energy terms are omitted from the Coulomb Hamiltonian and one considers the remaining Hamiltonian as a Hamiltonian of electrons only. The stationary nuclei enter the problem only as generators of an electric potential in which the electrons move in a quantum mechanical way. Within this framework the molecular Hamiltonian has been simplified to the so-called clamped nucleus Hamiltonian, also called electronic Hamiltonian, that acts only on functions of the electronic coordinates.

Once the Schrödinger equation of the clamped nucleus Hamiltonian has been solved for a sufficient number of constellations of the nuclei, an appropriate eigenvalue (usually the lowest) can be seen as a function of the nuclear coordinates, which leads to a potential energy surface. In practical calculations the surface is usually fitted in terms of some analytic functions. In the second step of the Born–Oppenheimer approximation the part of the full Coulomb Hamiltonian that depends on the electrons is replaced by the potential energy surface. This converts the total molecular Hamiltonian into another Hamiltonian that acts only on the nuclear coordinates. In the case of a breakdown of the Born–Oppenheimer approximation—which occurs when energies of different electronic states are close—the neighboring potential energy surfaces are needed, see this article for more details on this.

The nuclear motion Schrödinger equation can be solved in a space-fixed (laboratory) frame, but then the translational and rotational (external) energies are not accounted for. Only the (internal) atomic vibrations enter the problem. Further, for molecules larger than triatomic ones, it is quite common to introduce the harmonic approximation, which approximates the potential energy surface as a quadratic function of the atomic displacements. This gives the harmonic nuclear motion Hamiltonian. Making the harmonic approximation, we can convert the Hamiltonian into a sum of uncoupled one-dimensional harmonic oscillator Hamiltonians.  The one-dimensional harmonic oscillator is one of the few systems that allows an exact solution of the Schrödinger equation.

Alternatively, the nuclear motion (rovibrational) Schrödinger equation can be solved in a special frame (an Eckart frame) that rotates and translates with the molecule. Formulated with respect to this body-fixed frame the Hamiltonian accounts for rotation, translation and vibration of the nuclei. Since Watson introduced in 1968 an important simplification to this Hamiltonian, it is often referred to as Watson's nuclear motion Hamiltonian, but it is also known as the Eckart Hamiltonian.

Coulomb Hamiltonian 
The algebraic form of many observables—i.e., Hermitian operators representing observable quantities—is obtained by the following quantization rules:
 Write the classical form of the observable in Hamilton form (as a function of momenta p and positions q). Both vectors are expressed with respect to an arbitrary inertial frame, usually referred to as laboratory-frame or space-fixed frame.
 Replace p by  and interpret q as a multiplicative operator. Here  is the nabla operator, a vector operator consisting of first derivatives. The well-known commutation relations for the p and q operators follow directly from the differentiation rules.

Classically the electrons and nuclei in a molecule have kinetic energy of the form p2/(2 m) and
interact via Coulomb interactions, which are inversely proportional to the distance rij
between particle i and j.

In this expression ri stands for the coordinate vector of any particle (electron or nucleus), but from here on we will reserve capital R to represent the nuclear coordinate, and lower case r for the electrons of the system.  The coordinates can be taken to be expressed with respect to any Cartesian frame centered anywhere in space, because distance, being an inner product, is invariant under rotation of the frame and, being the norm of a difference vector, distance is invariant under translation of the frame as well.

By quantizing the classical energy in Hamilton form one obtains the a molecular Hamilton operator that is often referred to as the Coulomb Hamiltonian. This Hamiltonian is a sum of five terms. They are
 The kinetic energy operators for each nucleus in the system; 
 The kinetic energy operators for each electron in the system;
 The potential energy between the electrons and nuclei – the total electron-nucleus Coulombic attraction in the system; 
 The potential energy arising from Coulombic electron-electron repulsions 
 The potential energy arising from Coulombic nuclei-nuclei repulsions – also known as the nuclear repulsion energy. See electric potential for more details. 

Here Mi is the mass of nucleus i, Zi is the atomic number of nucleus i, and me is the mass of the electron. The Laplace operator of particle i is:. Since the kinetic energy operator is an inner product, it is invariant under rotation of the Cartesian frame with respect to which xi, yi, and zi are expressed.

Small terms 
In the 1920s much spectroscopic evidence made it clear that the Coulomb Hamiltonian is missing certain terms. Especially for molecules containing heavier atoms, these terms, although much smaller than kinetic and Coulomb energies, are nonnegligible. These spectroscopic observations led to the introduction of a new degree of freedom for electrons and nuclei, namely spin. This empirical concept was given a theoretical basis by Paul Dirac when he introduced a relativistically correct (Lorentz covariant) form of the one-particle Schrödinger equation.  The Dirac equation predicts that spin and spatial motion of a particle interact via spin–orbit coupling. In analogy spin-other-orbit coupling was introduced. The fact that particle spin has some of the characteristics of a magnetic dipole led to spin–spin coupling. Further terms without a classical counterpart are the Fermi-contact term (interaction of electronic density on a finite size nucleus with the nucleus), and nuclear quadrupole coupling (interaction of a nuclear quadrupole with the gradient of an electric field due to the electrons). Finally a parity violating term predicted by the Standard Model must be mentioned.  Although it is an extremely small interaction, it has attracted a fair amount of attention in the scientific literature because it gives different energies for the enantiomers in chiral molecules.

The remaining part of this article will ignore spin terms and consider the solution of the eigenvalue (time-independent Schrödinger) equation of the Coulomb Hamiltonian.

The Schrödinger equation of the Coulomb Hamiltonian 
The Coulomb Hamiltonian has a continuous spectrum due to the center of mass (COM) motion of the molecule in homogeneous space. In classical mechanics it is easy to separate off the COM motion of a system of point masses. Classically the motion of the COM is uncoupled from the other motions. The COM moves uniformly (i.e., with constant velocity) through space as if it were a point particle with mass equal to the sum Mtot of the masses of a