# Superprocess

An -superprocess, , within mathematics probability theory is a stochastic process on  that is usually constructed as a special limit of near-critical branching diffusions.

Informally, it can be seen as a branching process where each particle splits and dies at infinite rates, and evolves according to a diffusion equation, and we follow the rescaled population of particles, seen as a measure on .

Scaling limit of a discrete branching process

Simplest setting 

For any integer , consider a branching Brownian process  defined as follows:

 Start at  with  independent particles distributed according to a probability distribution .
 Each particle independently move according to a Brownian motion.
 Each particle independently dies with rate .
 When a particle dies, with probability  it gives birth to two offspring in the same location.

The notation  means should be interpreted as: at each time , the number of particles in a set  is . In other words,  is a measure-valued random process.

Now, define a renormalized process:

Then the finite-dimensional distributions of  converge as  to those of a measure-valued random process , which is called a -superprocess, with initial value , where  and where  is a Brownian motion (specifically,  where  is a measurable space,  is a filtration, and  under  has the law of a Brownian motion started at ). 

As will be clarified in the next section,  encodes an underlying branching mechanism, and  encodes the motion of the particles. Here, since  is a Brownian motion, the resulting object is known as a Super-brownian motion.

Generalization to (ξ, ϕ)-superprocesses 
Our discrete branching system  can be much more sophisticated, leading to a variety of superprocesses:

 Instead of , the state space can now be any Lusin space .
 The underlying motion of the particles can now be given by , where  is a càdlàg Markov process (see, Chapter 4, for details).
 A particle dies at rate 
 When a particle dies at time , located in , it gives birth to a random number of offspring . These offspring start to move from . We require that the law of  depends solely on , and that all  are independent. Set  and define  the associated probability-generating function:
Add the following requirement that the expected number of offspring is bounded:Define  as above, and define the following crucial function:Add the requirement, for all , that  is Lipschitz continuous with respect to  uniformly on , and that  converges to some function  as  uniformly on .

Provided all of these conditions, the finite-dimensional distributions of  converge to those of a measure-valued random process  which is called a -superprocess, with initial value .

Commentary on ϕ 
Provided , that is, the number of branching events becomes infinite, the requirement that  converges implies that, taking a Taylor expansion of , the expected number of offspring is close to 1, and therefore that the process is near-critical.

Generalization to Dawson-Watanabe superprocesses 
The branching particle system  can be further generalized as follows:

 The probability of death in the time interval  of a particle following trajectory  is  where  is a positive measurable function and  is a continuous functional of  (see, chapter 2, for details).
 When a particle following trajectory  dies at time , it gives birth to offspring according to a measure-valued probability kernel . In other words, the offspring are not necessarily born on their parent's location. The number of offspring is given by . Assume that .

Then, under suitable hypotheses, the finite-dimensional distributions of  converge to those of a measure-valued random process  which is called a Dawson-Watanabe superprocess, with initial value .

Properties 
A superprocess has a number of properties. It is a Markov process, and its Markov kernel  verifies the branching property:where  is the convolution.A special class of superprocesses are -superprocesses, with . A -superprocesses is defined on . Its branching mechanism is defined by its factorial moment generating function (the definition of a branching mechanism varies slightly among authors, some use the definition of  in the previous section, others use the factorial moment generating function):

and the spatial motion of individual particles (noted  in the previous section) is given by the -symmetric stable process with infinitesimal generator .

The  case means  is a standard Brownian motion and the -superprocess is called the super-Brownian motion.

One of the most important properties of superprocesses is that they are intimately connected with certain nonlinear partial differential equations. The simplest such equation is  When the spatial motion (migration) is a diffusion process, one talks about a superdiffusion. The connection between superdiffusions  and nonlinear PDE's is similar to the one between diffusions and linear PDE's.

Further resources

References 

Spatial processes