# Bothy Culture

Bothy Culture is the second studio album by the Scottish Celtic fusion artist Martyn Bennett, released in January 1998 on the Rykodisc label. After winning critical acclaim for his debut album Martyn Bennett (1996), Bothy Culture builds upon that album's mixing of Scottish Celtic music with farther, international folk music styles and contemporary electronic music. The album celebrates and draws upon the music of Bennett's native Gaeldom as well as the music of Islam and Scandinavia, with Bennett finding and emotionally connecting to the similarities between the geographically dispersed styles. It mixes the styles with contemporary electronic music such as breakbeat and drum and bass.

Named for the traditional party culture of Highland bothies, which Bennett related to modern club music subcultures, Bothy Culture was released to critical acclaim, with critics praising the effectiveness of the album's unique blend of disparate styles. Bennett formed the band Cuillin, consisting of himself, his wife and two other musicians, to tour in promotion of the album. Several critics have gone on to regard Bothy Culture as a groundbreaking and pioneering album that established Bennett as a prominent musician within the evolution of Scottish music, and Bennett went on to win the Glenfiddich Spirit of Scotland Award for Music. In 2018, 13 years after Bennett's death, his friend, composer Greg Lawson, hosted the much publicised show Bothy Culture and Beyond at the SSE Hydro, Glasgow, with his GRIT Orchestra, to celebrate the album's 20th anniversary.

Background
Martyn Bennett, already a Celtic musician, having grown up within Scottish Gaelic culture and learning to play the fiddle and piano, became influenced by the electronic dance music scene of the early 1990s and began regularly attending clubs, soon working Martin Swan's Mouth Music project, combining traditional Gaelic songs and music with contemporary instruments. He made his debut at the Glasgow Royal Concert Hall on 14 January 1994 supporting them. His debut album Martyn Bennet (1995), released on the Edinburgh-based indie label Eclectic, was recorded in just seven days.  The album had a large impact on Scottish music, and Bennett become one of a leading group of Scottish artists, others including Peatbog Faeries, Tartan Amoebas and Shooglenifty, who pioneered an "electro-ethnic-worldbeat" genre in which Scottish Celtic music was mixed with other folk influences from Europe and further afield like Asia, South America, Jamaica and Africa, and with contemporary music, especially electronic music.

The Los Angeles Times lauded Bennett's "capitvating form of multi-culturalism," while the Toronto Sun noted the mixing of Gaelic jigs, Turkish bagpipes and Penjabi melodies with synthesizers and drum machines in his music. After its release, he provided the live musical score for David Harrower’s play Knives in Hens, and after writing scores for stage and television, he went on tour to America, supporting Wolfstone, soon also playing at Edinburgh Hogmanay events in 1995 and 1996, performing to more than 90,000 people. It was with these events that his second album Bothy Culture started to piece together. More-so than his debut album, Bothy Culture developed as a result of his experiences of the early 1990s Glaswegian rave and house scenes and his experimentation with numerous types of world music. It was recorded solely by Bennett within his home studio. Compared to his debut album, Bennett described Bothy Culture as "less of a kind of virtuosic performance. It's a simpler kind of collage in a way. I think it's more complex and mature as well. The first album is full of testosterone."

Composition

Inspiration and themes 

Bennett explained Bothy Culture celebrates not only his own country's Gaelic culture and music, but also the music of Islam, for which he held a long-lasting fascination due to its vocals, modes and instrumentation being "similar in emotion" to Gaelic music styles, and the music of Scandinavia, which he found to have the same heavy-beat rowdiness and "solitary sweetness" of the ceilidh music he played in his upbringing. He felt he understood Islamic and Scandinavian music as soon as he heard them due to them expressing themselves without words: "I recognised them to be some past life I had lived through perhaps, or they seemed to well up under my fingers without my awareness."

The album is named for bothies, the Highland huts where travellers and shepherds would traditionally meet, rest, swap tunes and party. Bennett had stayed in bothies when trekking the Highlands, and had over time taken note of the bothy songs and tunes written by shepherds and drovers over generations, and noted similar traditions in other worldwide mountainous cultures, especially those with bothy-style traditions, like Spain, Austria, Greece, China, Bulgaria and Turkey. He found comparisons between the atmospheres of bothies and urban nightclubs, where he had "spooky" experiences arriving for soundchecks when the clubs were cold and empty, but noted: "Although the music and songs that have been played in them are totally contrasting, it is this same sense of excitement that can transform four bare walls into a chamber of sheer sensual delight."

Mairi McFayden of Bella Caledonia noted the significance of the bothy as a totemic symbol within the album. She said, despite a bothy seeming "unremarkable in itself," it nonetheless holds significant importance within Highland culture in that it they were the source of many memorable and important experiences for peoples' lives – "of gathering and companionship, of togetherness, of conviviality, of sharing stories, music and song. Of communitas." She felt this was "at the heart" of Bothy Culture: "whether the rhythmic entrainment of the rave or nightclub or the cultural intimacy and conviviality of the bothy, both are a vital a source of this dynamic life force – a feeling of connection to something outside and beyond our own individual, corporeal existence."

Music 
First and foremost an album of dance music, Bothy Culture primarily celebrates and draws from the music of Bennett's native Gaeldom as well as Scandinavian music and Islamic music. Dave Sleger of AllMusic felt the album mixes music from Punjabi, Scandinavian, Turkish and Irish cultures with modern club music styles like rave, techno and hip-hop, creating what he calls a "assiduous hybrid." Though Bennett's previous work used electronic dance beats, Bothy Culture developed upon the prominence of these beats considerably, with styles of drum and bass and trippy breakbeats. Billboard believed the album uses Bennett's native folk styles as the touchstone for what is essentially an "ultramodern" world music album, while CMJ New Music Monthly emphasised the album's mixing of Gaelic traditions with "skittering" electronic beats." The Times felt the album was dominated by its Scottish and Islamic music elements.

Bennett plays all the instruments on the album, with instruments as eclectic as the flute and violin, the Turkish oud and dudek and numerous electronic and programming devices. As with Glen Lyon (2002), Bothy Culture is one of Bennett's more studio-based albums. Permeating throughout is a "flat" synth sound that is often minimised by the bagpipes, violin, unusual vocal snippets, samples and "other electronic curiosities." The large amount of percussive breakbeats, as is common with contemporary dance music, augment Bannett's pipe and fiddle playing throughout, though the electronic beats are mostly unobtrusive, allowing the fiddles and pipes more room to permeate. Other electronic sounds on the album include ambient textures like in that of contemporary electronica, including modem-style squeals and micro-processed winds.

Described by Bennett as "a party tune with a pile of twaddle over the top," the opening "Tongues of Kali" is an upbeat number flavoured by Punjabi music, and contains funky grooves, bagpipes, sitar and "DJ tinged mayhem." It starts with thick vocal gargling, keyboard work and percussion which journalist Scott Frampton compared to the sound of "someone whacking a caber tosser's thigh," before the appearance of a house hi-hat rhythm and later a "sort of Gaelic scat." Author Gary West compared the song's Eastern mouth music with the Gaelic styles of puirt à beul and canntaireachd. The second track, "Aye?," features the word 'aye' muttered in numerous inflections; Kate Molleson of The Guardian called it "a stroke of deadpan brilliance, spoken word stripped back to a single redolent syllable. Bennett never overdid things." "Sputnik in Glenshiel" is reminiscent of Stéphane Grappelli, and combines Celtic and Middle Eastern violin "rhapsodies."

The fourth track, "Hallaig," features a sample of Gaelic poet Sorley MacLean reading his poem of the same name shortly before his death in 1996. The originally Gaelic language poem is named for the deserted township on Raasay, MacLean's bir