# Bommarillu

Bommarillu () () is a 2006 Indian Telugu-language romantic comedy family drama film directed and co-written by Bhaskar in his directorial debut, and produced by Dil Raju. The film stars Siddharth, Genelia, Prakash Raj and Jayasudha. The film primarily revolves around the relationship between a father and son, in which the father's excessive concern for his son, and interference in his life, leads to the latter harbouring bitterness towards his overbearing father. The cinematography was handled by Vijay C Chakravarthy and editing done by Marthand K. Venkatesh. The music for the film was composed by Devi Sri Prasad, whose soundtrack of the film received positive reviews from critics.

The film opened to Indian audiences on 9 August 2006. On its way to winning state honours and rave reviews, the film went on to win several Filmfare Awards among other prominent awards and was one of the highest grossing Telugu films of that year. Following the film's box office success, it was remade in Tamil as Santosh Subramaniam (2008), in Bengali as Bhalobasa Bhalobasa (2008), in Odia as Dream Girl (2009), and in Hindi as It's My Life (2020).

Plot
Aravind is a father who strives to provide his children more than what they ask for, often overriding their choices. Aravind's youngest son, Siddharth aka Siddhu, doesn't want to be controlled as such. He is determined that two crucial aspects of his life — his career and his life partner — should be chosen by him alone. Aravind expects Siddhu to join his construction company; however, Siddhu desires to start his own company and be independent, and hence keeps lying and making excuses. The following week, Aravind gets a reluctant Siddhu engaged to his friend's daughter Subbalakshmi. Subbalakshmi, like Siddhu, is a child whose life is micromanaged by her father. Much to Siddhu's dismay, she doesn't seem to mind it.

When contemplating his options at a temple, Siddhu accidentally meets Haasini and is attracted to her energetic nature, craziness and cheerfulness. The couple begins to meet regularly. As the days go by, Siddhu grows to admire the ever-friendly Hasini as someone who does what she wants to, and finds joy in doing the smallest things with her. He realizes that he has fallen in love with her.

Alongside this, Siddhu applies for a bank loan to start his own construction company. He proposes to Haasini while also confessing that he is engaged to Subbalakshmi against his wishes. On learning this, Haasini, though dejected for a while, comes back to him a few days later, and advises Siddhu to break off his engagement, also declaring that she loves him too. The ecstatic Siddhu yells out his love for Hasini as she leaves in her college bus, and is seen by a furious Aravind.

On being admonished by Aravind back home, Siddhu convinces Aravind to let Haasini stay with their family for a week. He also convinces Haasini to stay at his house after lying to her father, Kanaka Rao, that she is going on a college tour. After receiveing a lukewarm welcome, Haasini finds it difficult to adapt to the living habits of Aravind's household but stays for Siddhu's sake. Bit-by-bit, many of the family members begin to like Haasini, much to Aravind's dismay. Haasini accidentally tells Aravind about Siddhu's loan, enraging Aravind. Siddhu and Haasini begin to grow apart owing to the tensions in the house.

One day, the family attends a wedding, where, despite Siddhu warning Haasini to behave herself, she gets excited and behaves like her usual cheerful self. Coincidentally, a drunk Kanaka Rao finds his way there, enraging Siddhu. Siddhu admonishes Haasini for her antics, and insults Kanaka Rao, prompting her to angrily remind him of his own habits of getting drunk and abusing his father. Siddhu's family (excluding Aravind) hears this, shocking his family and devastating Siddhu.

When the week is finished, Haasini interrupts Siddhu by telling Aravind that she has decided to leave. She explains that Siddhu is scolding her for doing the same things that made him fall in love with her, and that she's afraid that if she marries Siddhu, she will have to act one way in the house and another way outside, just like Siddhu is doing now. After getting back to her home, she promises a disappointed and furious Kanaka Rao that she will only listen to him from now on.

When Aravind confronts Siddhu about his aloofness and inability to forget Haasini, Siddhu's mother, Lakshmi, confronts Aravind on Siddhu's choices and wants. In the process, Siddhu opens up his heart, leaving Aravind to repent on his overprotectiveness. Siddhu requests Subbulakshmi and her parents to call off the marriage. While they relent, Aravind tries to convince Kanaka Rao about Siddhu and Haasini's love. When Kanaka Rao disapproves, Aravind suggests to let Siddhu stay with them for a week. After a week's stay, Kanaka Rao is convinced, letting the couple unite.

Cast

 Siddharth as Siddharth "Siddhu" Addala 
 Genelia as Haasini Rao
 Prakash Raj as Addala Aravind, Siddhu's father
 Jayasudha as Lakshmi Addala, Siddhu's mother
 Kota Srinivasa Rao as Kanaka Rao, Haasini's father
 Sunil as Satti, Siddhu's servant
 Satya Krishnan as Siddhu's sister-in-law
 Sudeepa Pinky as Siddhu's sister
 Dharmavarapu Subramanyam as Kismat Kumar, lecturer in college
 Surekha Vani as Siddhu's elder sister
 Chitram Seenu as Kedimangina Sreenu, Siddhu's friend
 Vijay Sai as Vamsi, Siddhu's friend
 Ravi Varma as Ravi, Siddhu's friend
 Neha Bamb as Subbalakshmi, Siddhu's fiancée
 Bill Bitra as Chintu
 Brahmanandam as Loan Officer
 Tanikella Bharani as Subbalaxmi's father
 Chalapathi Rao as Vamsi's father
 Venkata Sriram as Gautham, Siddhu's brother
 Saptagiri as Haasini's lover
 Stunt Silva as College student
 Raghunatha Reddy as Siddhu's friend's father
 Narsing Yadav as Motorcycle driver
 Shobi (special appearance in the song "Kaani Ippudu")

Production

Development
Prior to Bommarillu, Bhaskar assisted Dil Raju in Telugu films such as Arya (2004) and Bhadra (2005). On the sets of the film Arya, Raju offered Bhaskar a film to direct. On the sets of Bhadra, Bhaskar narrated the story to Raju and the saga began. Thus, Bommarillu became the first directorial venture for Bhaskar. In an interview, he said that the story for the film began taking shape in as early as 1997 when he wrote about a father and a son's relationship. However, when the plans of making the film arose, an element of love between the protagonists was added. In the interview, he said that the script, to an extent, is autobiographical. He cites personal examples of some scenes from the film such as the choice of clothes for Siddhu by Aravind, the head-bump between the lead actors and Lakshmi singing in the kitchen.

In an interview, Vijay C Chakravarthy, the cinematographer for the film, said that Dil Raju offered him the position in November 2005. For the film, Vijay said that he made use of Arriflex 435 camera and Hawk lenses. In another interview, Bhaskar said working with Abburi Ravi, his co-writer, was unique. They used to converse in a closed room with a voice recorder, allowing the dialogues in the script to be natural. He also heaped praise on Marthand K. Venkatesh, the film's editor. After filming, the length of the film reel came to  which amounted to a runtime of 3 hours and 15 minutes. The presence of Marthand brought this down to . This meant a reduction in the runtime by 25 minutes.

Casting
The choice of Siddharth was because of the sheer relevance to the character in real life. However, they finalized the choice of the actor only after the script was ready. The choice of Genelia was based on her natural vivacity in real life. This and her eyes, according to Bhaskar, made her an obvious choice for her character. More so, she liked the one line story that Raju told and also a few scenes that he narrated to her. She immediately liked the character and consented for the role. The fact that her co-actor, Siddharth and she acted earlier together in Boys (2003), made them more comfortable to work with. The camaraderie that the lead actors shared during the filming, added to their good performances. The choice of Prakash Raj was easy as he befitted the character he portrayed while, Jayasudha was persuaded to play the role of the lead actor's mother. Savitha Reddy rendered the voice for Genelia's character in the film.

Filming 
The shooting of the film took about three and a half months. The palatial house where the entire family stayed in the film is part of Ramanaidu Studios at Nanakramguda, Hyderabad. Several modifications were done by the art director, Prakash. A couple of the songs were shot in a montage, another couple in Frankfurt am Main and other places in Germany and one song each in this house set and at a temple in Kakinada.

Soundtrack

For the film's music and soundtrack, Raju renewed his previous association (Arya and Bhadra) with Devi Sri Prasad. Siddharth sung one of the tracks from this film. The fil