# Terrorism in Australia

Terrorism in Australia deals with terrorist acts in Australia as well as steps taken by the Australian government to counter the threat of terrorism. In 2004 the Australian government has identified transnational terrorism as also a threat to Australia and to Australian citizens overseas. Australia has experienced acts of modern terrorism since the 1960s, while the federal parliament, since the 1970s, has enacted legislation seeking to target terrorism.

Terrorism is defined as "an action or threat of action where the action causes certain defined forms of harm or interference and the action is done or the threat is made with the intention of advancing a political, religious and ideological or group cause".

Notable terrorist attacks in Australia 
Terrorists attacks have occurred in Australia over the country's history, including the following notable incidents.

Battle of Broken Hill (1915)

Two men shot dead four people and wounded seven more, before being killed by police and military officers. At the time of their attack, they raised the flag of the Ottoman Caliphate, later the Turkish flag to identify their cause. Neither of the men were members of any official armed force. In today's parlance, their attack would be described as an act of a lone wolf. The two men were later identified as being Muslims from the British colony of India, modern-day Pakistan (some sources incorrectly identify them as Turkish).

Soviet Embassy bombing (1971)
The Embassy of the USSR was attacked by a crude bomb on 17 January 1971 in Canberra.

Sydney Yugoslav General Trade and Tourist Agency bombing (1972)

The Sydney Yugoslav General Trade and Tourist Agency bombing occurred in Haymarket, Sydney on 16 September 1972; the attack injured sixteen people. The perpetrators of the attack were believed to be Croatian separatists.

Sydney Hilton Hotel bombing (1978)

The Sydney Hilton Hotel bombing occurred on 13 February 1978; a bomb exploded outside the Hilton Hotel in George Street, Sydney, which was hosting the first Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting. Two garbage collectors and a police officer were killed and eleven others were injured.

Family Court of Australia attacks (1980–1985)

On 23 June 1980, David Opas, a judge of the Family Court, was shot dead outside his home. In March 1984, a bomb destroyed the home of fellow judge Richard Gee, who survived. In April, a bomb exploded in the Family Court building in Parramatta. In July, the wife of judge Ray Watson was killed when a bomb exploded on their doorstep. In July 1985 a bombing at a Jehovah's Witness hall killed the minister, Graham Wykes.

Iwasaki resort bombing (1980)
At 2am on 29 November 1980, the day of the Queensland State election, a nitropril and fuel oil bomb was detonated with gelignite at the Iwasaki resort construction site north of Yeppoon. The blast created a seven-metre-wide crater in a block of holiday units under construction. Premier Joh Bjelke-Petersen and MP Ben Humphreys labelled the incident a terrorist attack, and a caller to Rockhampton's The Morning Bulletin newspaper claimed responsibility on behalf of the "Queensland Republican Army". The media saw the motivation behind the attack as increasing resentment over Japanese land ownership in Queensland, while Petersen claimed that it was a racist attack. Two men, Eric John Geissman and Kerry Geissman, were committed to trial on 15 May 1981. Both were found not guilty after questions were raised regarding police misconduct in the investigation, a common problem in Queensland at the time.

Sydney Turkish Consul General assassination (1980) 
On 17 December 1980, Sydney Turkish Consul General Şarık Arıyak and his security attaché Engin Sever were assassinated by two people on motorcycles wielding firearms in Sydney. The Justice Commandos of the Armenian Genocide claimed responsibility but the culprits were never identified and no charges were laid. The Consul General was gunned down despite having taken precautions in the form of not travelling in the official consulate Mercedes Benz vehicle and instead being chauffeured in the trailing security attaché's car. In December 2019, it was announced that New South Wales Joint Counter Terrorism Team had established Strike Force Esslemont to re-investigate the murders. The reward, for information that leads to an arrest and conviction, was increased from  to A$1 million. This was the first ever million-dollar reward offered in Australia for an act of terrorism.

In August 2020 police Marine Area Command divers searched Greenwich Point in relation to the assassination.

Jack van Tongeren and the ANM (1980s, 2004) 

Throughout the 1980s, the Western Australian neo-Nazi group "The Australian Nationalist Movement", led by Jack van Tongeren, engaged in a series of bombings of Asian restaurants and businesses, political violence, murder of a suspected informant and other acts to intimidate the Asian population. Van Tongeren was eventually imprisoned for a long period of time until his release in the early to mid-2000s. He resumed his activities until he was re-arrested in 2004 as part of Operation Atlantic, prompting a judge to order him to leave the state.

In February 2004 three Chinese restaurants in Perth were firebombed in the early hours of the morning. The police also identified a plot to harm Jim McGinty and his family, two police officers and an ethnic community leader, and raided Van Tongeren's home. After two separate man-hunts, the second after van Tongeren skipped bail, Van Tongeren was found and arrested in the Boddington area south-east of Perth. Van Tongeren was found guilty of planning to bomb Chinese restaurants in Perth and of organising a destructive hate campaign in 2007, but was given a 2-year suspended sentence on account of ill health. His right-hand man, John Van Blitterswyk, was given a 2-year, 4-month sentence.

Israeli consulate and Hakoah Club bombing (1982)
The bombing of the Israeli Consulate and Hakoah Club in Sydney occurred on 23 December 1982. The two bombings occurred on the same day within five hours of each other. The initial case led to a single arrest though charges were later dropped. In 2011, the NSW police and Australian federal police reopened the case citing new leads.

Turkish consulate bombing (1986) 
The Melbourne Turkish consulate bombing occurred on 23 November 1986; a car bomb exploded in a carpark beneath the Turkish Consulate in South Yarra, Melbourne, killing the bomber who failed to correctly set up the explosive device. Levon Demirian, a Sydney resident with links to the Armenian Revolutionary Federation, was charged over the attack and served 10 years.

Attempted assassination of Eddie Funde (1989) 
In 1989, two Skinhead youths, inspired by the Australian-based neo-Nazi National Action group, fired shotguns at the home of African National Congress representative Eddie Funde in an assassination attempt. Head of National Action, James Saleam, was sentenced to three-and-a-half years in jail for ordering the assassination. The trial judge described the assassination as "an act of naked political terrorism".

Perth French Consulate bombing (1995) 
In 1995, terrorists firebombed the French Consulate in Perth.

Abortion clinic attack (2001)

 
On 16 July 2001, Peter James Knight, described as an "obsessive anti-abortionist" who lived alone in a makeshift camp in rural New South Wales, attacked the East Melbourne Family Planning clinic, a privately run clinic providing abortions, carrying a rifle, and large quantities of kerosene and lighters. He shot and killed a security guard at the clinic before his capture and arrest. He was charged and convicted of murder, and was sentenced to life imprisonment with a non-parole period of 23 years. Australian terrorism academic Clive Williams listed the attack amongst incidents of politically motivated violence in Australia.

Endeavour Hills stabbings (2014) 

On 24 September 2014, an 18-year-old man, Numan Haider, was shot and killed by police outside Endeavour Hills police station. Victoria Police Assistant Commissioner Luke Cornelius said Haider had been asked to come to the police station to discuss behaviour "which had been causing some concern". When the man arrived outside the station, he stabbed the two officers as they went to meet him. The two stabbed officers, one from Victoria Police and one from the Australian Federal Police, were working together as part of a joint operation on counter-terrorism between the AFP and Victoria Police. Haider was found to be carrying two knives and an Islamic State flag.

Sydney hostage crisis (2014) 

On 15 December 2014, Man Haron Monis, took 17 people hostage inside a Lindt chocolate café in Martin Place, Sydney. He forced hostages to hold up a jihadist black flag against a window of the café. On the early hours of 16 December, police breached the café and fatally shot Monis following the escape of several hostages. Two hostages also died, while an