# Scottish Gaelic grammar

This article describes the grammar of the Scottish Gaelic language.

Grammar overview

Gaelic shares with other Celtic languages a number of interesting typological features:
 Verb–subject–object basic word order in simple sentences with non-periphrastic verbal constructions, a typological characteristic relatively uncommon among the world's languages.
 conjugated prepositions (traditionally called "prepositional pronouns"): complex forms historically derived from the fusion of a preposition + pronoun sequence (see Prepositions below)
 prepositional constructions for expressing possession and ownership (instead of a verb like English have):
Tha taigh agam — "I have a house" (lit. "A house is at me")
Tha an cat sin le Iain – "Iain owns that cat" (lit. "Is the cat that with Ian")
 emphatic pronouns: Emphatic forms are systematically available in all pronominal constructions (See Pronouns below).
Tha cat agadsa ach tha cù agamsa – "You have a cat but I have a dog"

Consonant mutations

Lenition and slenderisation (also referred to as palatalisation or "i-infection") play a crucial role in Scottish Gaelic grammar.

Lenition (sometimes inaccurately referred to as "aspiration"), as a grammatical process, affects the pronunciation of initial consonants, and is indicated orthographically by the addition of an h:
caileag → chaileag "girl"
beag → bheag "small"
faca → fhaca "saw"
snog → shnog "nice"
Lenition is not indicated in writing for words beginning with l, n or r. Nor does it affect words that begin with either a vowel, or with sg, sm, sp, or  st. In most cases, lenition is caused by the presence of particular trigger words to the left (certain determiners, adverbs, prepositions, and other function words). In this article, the leniting effect of such words is indicated, where relevant, by the superscript "+L" (e.g. glè+L "very").

Slenderisation, on the other hand, is a change in the pronunciation of the final consonant of a word, and it is typically indicated by the addition of an i:
facal → facail "word"
balach → balaich "boy"
òran → òrain "song"
ùrlar → ùrlair "floor"
In many cases slenderisation accompanies more complex changes to the final syllable of the word:
cailleach → caillich "old woman"
ceòl → ciùil "music"
fiadh → fèidh "deer"
cas → cois "foot"
Slenderisation has no effect on words that end in a vowel (e.g. bàta "boat"), or words whose final consonant is already slender (e.g. sràid "street").

Most cases of slenderisation can be explained historically as the palatalizing influence of a following front vowel (such as -i) in earlier stages of the language. Although this vowel has now disappeared, its effects on the preceding consonant are still preserved. Similarly, lenition of initial consonants was originally triggered by the final vowel of the preceding word, but in many cases, this vowel is no longer present in the modern language.

Many word-final consonants have also disappeared in the evolution of Scottish Gaelic, and some traces of them can be observed in the form of prosthetic or linking consonants (n-, h-, t-, etc.) that appear in some syntactic combinations, for example, after some determiners (see below).

Nouns

Gender and number

Gaelic nouns and pronouns belong to one of two grammatical genders: masculine or feminine. Nouns with neuter gender in Old Gaelic were redistributed between the masculine and feminine.

The gender of a small number of nouns differs between dialects. A very small group of nouns have declensional patterns that suggest mixed gender characteristics. Foreign nouns that are fairly recent loans arguably fall into a third gender class (discussed by Black), if considered in terms of their declensional pattern. It is arguable that feminine gender is under pressure and that the system may be becoming simplified with the feminine paradigms incorporating some typically masculine patterns.

Nouns have three grammatical numbers: singular, dual (vestigially) and plural. Dual forms of nouns are only found after the numeral dà (two), where they are obligatory. The dual form is identical in form to the dative singular; depending on noun class, the dual is therefore either the same in form as the common singular (the nominative-accusative, Class 1 nouns, Class 3 and Class 4 nouns), or have a palatalised final consonant in nouns of Class 2 and Class 5. Plurals are formed in a variety of ways, including suffixation (often involving the suffix -(e)an) and slenderisation. Pluralisation, as in Irish Gaelic and Manx, can vary according to noun class, however on the whole depends on the final sound of the singular form.

Cardinal Numerals
For counting, or with numerals that are not followed by a noun, the form is slightly different.

Cases

Nouns and pronouns in Gaelic have four cases: nominative, vocative, genitive, and dative (or prepositional) case. There is no distinct accusative case form; the nominative is used for both subjects and objects. Nouns can be classified into a number of major declension classes, with a small number of nouns falling into minor patterns or irregular paradigms. Case forms can be related to the base form by suffixation, lenition, slenderisation, or a combination of such changes. See the example paradigms below for further details.

The case system is now under tremendous pressure and speakers exhibit varying degrees of paradigm simplification.

Prepositional or dative
Nouns in the dative case only occur after a preposition, and never, for example, as the indirect object of a verb.

Vocative
Nouns in the vocative case are introduced by the particle a+L, which lenites a following consonant, and is elided (and usually not written) before a vowel. The vocative form of feminine singular nouns is otherwise identical to the nominative; additionally, masculine singular nouns are slenderised in the vocative.
 feminine:
Màiri → a Mhàiri
Anna → (a) Anna
 masculine:
Seumas → a Sheumais
Aonghas → (a) Aonghais

Genitive
In the genitive construction, the genitive follows the word it governs: taigh m' athar house my father (genitive) "my father's house".

Indefinite and definite
Gaelic has no indefinite article. Cù may mean either "dog" or "a dog", and coin may mean either "dogs" or "some dogs."

The definite article is discussed below in full under articles. A noun or noun phrase is considered to be definite if it fulfils one of the following criteria.
 It is a proper noun
Màiri "Mary"
 Inbhir Nis "Inverness"
Alba "Scotland"
 It is preceded by an article
an cù "the dog"
na h-aibhnichean "the rivers"
 It is preceded by a possessive determiner
mo cheann "my head"
àirde mo chinn "at the top of my voice"

Pronouns

Personal pronouns
Gaelic has singular and plural personal pronouns (i.e., no dual forms). Gender is distinguished only in the 3rd person singular. A T-V distinction is found in the 2nd person, with the plural form sibh used also as a polite singular.

In most cases the Classical Gaelic lenited form of tu, i.e. thu, has become generalised. Tu is retained in constructions where it is preceded by a verb ending in -n -s or -dh (incl. historic -dh):

Is tu a rinn a' mhocheirigh! "You are an early riser!" 
Bu tu an gaisgeach! "What a hero you were!" (In older Gaelic bu was written and pronounced budh)
Mun abradh tu “deas-dé.” "Before you had time to say even a single word."
Cuiridh tu an-seo e! "You will put it here!"

Emphatic personal pronouns
The emphatic pronouns are used to express emphasis or contrast:
Tha i bòidheach — "She's beautiful"
Tha ise bòidheach — "Shes beautiful (as opposed to somebody else)"

Emphatic forms are found in all pronominal constructions:
an taigh aicese — "her house"
chuirinn-sa — "I would put"
na mo bheachd-sa — "in my opinion"

Adjectives

Adjectives in Gaelic inflect according to gender and case in the singular. In the plural, a single form is used for both masculine and feminine genders, in all cases (although it may be lenited depending on the context).

Adjectives normally follow the noun they modify, and agree with it in gender, number and case. In addition, in the dative singular of masculine nouns, the leniting effect of a preceding definite article (see Articles below) can be seen on both the noun and the following adjective:
 (air) breac mòr – "(on) a big trout"
 (air) a' bhreac mhòr – "(on) the big trout"

A small number of adjectives precede the noun, and generally cause lenition. For example:
 seann chù – "old dog"
 droch shìde – "bad weather"
 deagh thidsear – "good teacher"

Determiners

Possessive determiners

Gaelic uses possessive determiners (corresponding to my, your, their, etc.) differently from English. In Gaelic, possessive determiners are used mostly to indicate inalienable possession, for example for body parts or family members.

As indicated in the following table, some possessive determiners lenite the following word. Before a word beginning with a vowel, some of the determiners have elided forms, or require a linking consonant.

The