# Sheree Thomas

Sheree Renée Thomas is an American writer, book editor and publisher. In 2020, Thomas was named editor of The Magazine of Fantasy & Science Fiction.

Career 
Thomas is the editor of the Dark Matter: A Century of Speculative Fiction from the African Diaspora anthology (2000) and Dark Matter: Reading the Bones, Dark Matter, winners of the 2001 and the 2005 World Fantasy Award for Best Anthology, which collect works by many African-American writers in the genres of science fiction, horror and fantasy. Dark Matter received the 2005 and the 2001 World Fantasy Award and was named a New York Times Notable Book of the Year.

Thomas is the author of Nine Bar Blues: Stories from an Ancient Future (Third Man Books, 2020), the multigenre collections Sleeping Under the Tree of Life, longlisted for the 2016 James A. Tiptree, Jr. Award and Shotgun Lullabies: Stories & Poems, is publisher of Wanganegresse Press, and has contributed to national publications including The Washington Post, The New York Times, Book World, Black Issues Book Review, QBR, and Hip Mama. Her fiction and poetry has been widely anthologized and appears in "The Big Book of Modern Fantasy (1945-2010),"  in Ishmael Reed's Konch, Drumvoices Revue, Obsidian III, African Voices, storySouth, and other literary journals, and has received Honorable Mention in the Year's Best Fantasy and Horror, 16th and 17th annual collections. A native of Memphis, Thomas lived in New York City for over two decades and is now based in her hometown. In fall 2020 she was named the tenth editor of The Magazine of Fantasy & Science Fiction, founded in 1949. She also serves as the Associate Editor of Obsidian: Literature & Arts in the African Diaspora, founded in 1975.

References

Sources 
 Bringing Challenging Feminist Science Fiction to the Demanding Reader (Aqueduct Press) 
 Thomas, Sheree Renée (The Encyclopedia of Science Fiction)

External links

Official website
 Blackpot Mojo — Sheree Renée Thomas' Blog

 Sheree Thomas' publications in Drumvoices Revue
 Connected to Culture: A Conversation with Sheree Renée Thomas, Clarkesworld (July 2021)
 Afrofuturist Writer Sheree Renée Thomas, In the Green Room, Zocalo (September 30th, 2022) 
 Guest Lecturer Sheree Renée Thomas, Interview, Writing Workshop 
 

Science fiction editors
American book editors
Writers from Memphis, Tennessee
Living people
American science fiction writers
20th-century American short story writers
21st-century American short story writers
American women short story writers
American short story writers
Women science fiction and fantasy writers
Afrofuturist writers
1972 births
20th-century American women writers
21st-century American women writers
20th-century African-American women writers
20th-century African-American writers
21st-century African-American women writers
21st-century African-American writers