# Virgo interferometer

The Virgo interferometer is a large Michelson interferometer designed to detect gravitational waves predicted by general relativity. It is located in Santo Stefano a Macerata, near the city of Pisa, Italy. The instrument's two arms are three kilometres long, housing its mirrors and instrumentation inside an ultra-high vacuum.

Virgo is hosted by the European Gravitational Observatory (EGO), a consortium founded by the French CNRS and Italian INFN. The Virgo Collaboration operates the detector and defines the strategy and policy for its use and upgrades. It is composed of several hundreds of members across 16 different countries. Other interferometers similar to Virgo have the same goal of detecting gravitational waves, including the two LIGO interferometers in the United States (at the Hanford Site and in Livingston, Louisiana) and the Japanese interferometer KAGRA. Since 2007, Virgo and LIGO have agreed to share and jointly analyze the data recorded by their detectors and to jointly publish their results; this agreement now includes KAGRA since 2019. Because the interferometric detectors are not directional (they survey the whole sky) and are looking for signals which are weak and infrequent, simultaneous detection of a gravitational wave in multiple instruments is crucial for improving the confidence in the signal validity and deducing the location of its source.

The interferometer is named after the Virgo Cluster, a cluster of about 1,500 galaxies in the Virgo constellation, about 50 million light-years from Earth. Born at a time when gravitational waves were only a prediction from general relativity, it has now participated in detecting multiple gravitational wave events; the detector is still being periodically improved to increase its sensitivity and its scientific output.

Organization 
The Virgo experiment is managed by the European Gravitational Observatory (EGO) consortium, created in December 2000 by the CNRS and INFN. The Dutch Institute for Nuclear and High-Energy Physics Nikhef later joined as an observer and eventually a full member. EGO is responsible for the Virgo site, in charge of the construction, maintenance, and operation of the detector, as well as its upgrades. One of the goals of EGO is also to promote research and studies about gravitation in Europe.

In addition, the Virgo Collaboration regroups all the researchers working on various aspects of the detector. As of May 2023, around 850 members, representing 142 institutions in 16 different countries, are part of the collaboration. This includes institutions from France, Italy, the Netherlands, Poland, Spain, Belgium, Germany, Hungary, Portugal, Greece, Czechia, Denmark, Ireland, Monaco, China, and Japan.

The Virgo Collaboration is also part of the larger LIGO-Virgo-KAGRA (LVK) Collaboration, regrouping scientists from the other major gravitational waves experiment, for the purpose of carrying a joint analysis of the data which is crucial for gravitational wave detections. It first started in 2007 as the LIGO-Virgo Collaboration, and was extended when KAGRA joined in 2019.

History 
The Virgo project was approved in 1992 by the French CNRS and in 1993 by the Italian INFN, the two institutes at the origin of the experiment. The construction of the detector started in 1996 in the Cascina site near Pisa, Italy, and was completed in 2003. After several observing runs without detection, the interferometer was shut down in 2011 to allow for significant upgrades as part of the Advanced Virgo project. It started making observations again in 2017, quickly making its first detections along with the LIGO detectors.

Conception 
Although the concept of gravitational waves is more than 100 years old, having been predicted by Einstein in 1916, it was not before the 1970s that serious projects for detecting them started to appear. The first were the so-called Weber bars, invented by Joseph Weber, which could in principle detect gravitational waves. This triggered a number of projects, and while none of them succeeded, they did spark the creation of many research groups dedicated to gravitational wave search.

The idea of a large interferometric detector began to gain credibility, and in 1985, the Virgo project was imagined by the Italian researcher Adalberto Giazotto and the French researcher Alain Brillet after they met in Rome. One of the key ideas that set Virgo apart from other projects was targeting low frequencies (around 10 Hz), whereas most projects focused on higher frequencies (around 500 Hz); many believed at the time that it was not doable, and only France and Italy started working on the project, which was first presented in 1987. After being approved by the CNRS and the INFN, the construction of the interferometer began in 1996, with the aim of beginning observations by the year 2000.

The first goal of Virgo was to directly observe gravitational waves. The study over three decades of the binary pulsar 1913+16, whose discovery was awarded the 1993 Nobel Prize in Physics, had already led to indirect evidence of the existence of gravitational waves. The observed decrease over time of this binary pulsar's orbital period was in excellent agreement with the hypothesis that the system is losing energy by emitting gravitational waves.

Initial Virgo detector 

In the 2000s, the Virgo detector was first built, commissioned, and operated. The instrument reached its design sensitivity to gravitational wave signals. This initial endeavor was used to validate the Virgo technical design choices; it also demonstrated that giant interferometers are promising devices for detecting gravitational waves in a wide frequency band. This original detector is generally referred to as the "initial Virgo" or "original Virgo".

The construction of the initial Virgo detector was completed in June 2003 and several data-taking periods ("science runs") followed between 2007 and 2011. Some of these runs were done in coincidence with the two LIGO detectors.  There was a shut-down of a few months in 2010 to allow for a major upgrade of the Virgo suspension system: the original steel suspension wires were replaced by glass fibers in order to reduce the thermal noise.

However, the initial Virgo detector was not sensitive enough to detect such gravitational waves. After several months of data taking with the upgraded suspension system, the initial Virgo detector was shut down in September 2011 to begin the installation of Advanced Virgo.

Advanced Virgo detector 

The Advanced Virgo detector aimed to increase the sensitivity (and thus the distance at which a signal can be detected) by a factor of 10, allowing it to probe a volume of the Universe 1,000 times larger, making detections of gravitational waves more likely. It benefitted from the experience gained with the initial detector and subsequent technological advances.

The Advanced Virgo detector kept the same vacuum infrastructure as initial Virgo, with four additional cryotraps located at both ends of both three-kilometre-long arms to trap residual particles coming from the mirror towers, but the remainder of the interferometer was significantly upgraded. The new mirrors were larger (350 mm in diameter, with a weight of 40 kg), and their optical performance was improved. The critical optical elements used to control the interferometer are under vacuum on suspended benches. A system of adaptive optics was to be installed to correct the mirror aberrations in-situ. In the final Advanced Virgo configuration, the laser power is expected to be 200 W.

Advanced Virgo started the commissioning process in 2016, joining the two advanced LIGO detectors ("aLIGO") on 1 August 2017, during the "O2" observation period. On 14 August 2017, LIGO and Virgo detected a signal, GW170814, which was reported on 27 September 2017. It was the first binary black hole merger detected by both LIGO and Virgo (and the first one for Virgo).

Just few days later, GW170817 was detected by the LIGO and Virgo on 17 August 2017. The signal was produced by the last minutes of two neutron stars spiralling closer to each other and finally merging, and is the first gravitational wave observation which has been confirmed by non-gravitational means.

After further upgrades, Virgo started the third observation run ("O3") in April 2019, planned to last one year, followed by further upgrades. On the 27th of March 2020, the O3 run was suspended because of the COVID-19 pandemic.

The upgrades currently underway are part of the "Advanced Virgo +" program, divided in two phases, the first one preceding the O4 run and the second one preceding the O5 run. The first phase focuses on the reduction of quantum noise by introducing a more powerful laser, improving the squeezing introduced in O3, and implementing a new technique called signal recycling; seismic sensors will also be installed around the mirrors. The second phase will then try to reduce the mirror thermal noise, by changing