# 24 Hours (The Kleptones album)

24 Hours is a 2006 mashup double concept album by The Kleptones. Like other albums by The Kleptones, the album intersperses quotes from movies and television in its songs.

In the three weeks preceding the online release, an EP was released weekly which featured one song along with two to three b-sides which were not included on the album.

On 16 May 2006 an edited version of the track "19:00 Careless Or Dead" was posted on the Bootie website under the title "Careless Or Dead (Bootie Version)".

Track listing
"07:00 – Still Start" – 3:03
Samples – Thomas Newman – American Beauty soundtrack
Samples – Fatboy Slim – Weapon of Choice
Samples – Underworld – Pearl's Girl
Samples – Will Smith – Gettin' Jiggy Wit It
Samples – Foo Fighters – Still
Samples – Laurie Anderson – O Superman
Samples – Global Communication – 14:31
Samples - Apocalyptica - The Unforgiven
"07:30 – Up" – 1:36
Samples – AC/DC – For Those About to Rock (We Salute You)
Samples – Harry Nilsson – Jump Into the Fire
A spoof morning radio show is heard featuring Manchester comedian Nick Fraser and DJ Laurie Laptop
"08:10 – Down On Bennies" – 3:36
Samples – Elton John – Bennie and the Jets
Samples – Rage Against the Machine – Down on the Street
"08:35 – Kick The Bus, Kick The Train" – 4:13
Samples – Steve Miller Band – Fly Like an Eagle
Samples – ZZ Top – Waitin' for the Bus
Samples – White Stripes – Hello Operator
Samples – Dilated Peoples – Bullet Train
Samples – Korn & the Dust Brothers – Kick the P.A.
"09:00 – Daft Purple" – 4:06
Samples – The Breakfast Club
"Well, well. Here we are." | "What can I say? I'm thrilled." | "I want to congratulate you for being on time."
Samples – Deep Purple – Fireball
Samples – Marshall McLuhan/Quentin Fiore/Jerome Agel – The Medium Is The Massage (Columbia LP, 1968)
"Ours is a brand new world of all-at-once-ness..."
Samples – Daft Punk – Harder, Better, Faster, Stronger
Samples – Daft Punk – Technologic
Samples – Hijack – The Badman is Robbin'
"Pow! Automatic, feel the panic, got to have ya. I'm the joker, i'm smoker..."
Samples – Pink Floyd – Money
Samples – Jethro Tull – War Child
"Would you like another cup of tea, dear?"
"10:25 – Sixteen Sisters" – 2:50
Samples – Paul Morley
"Cell phones, faxes, voicemail, pagers, couriers, email, radio, catalogues....."
Samples – Madonna – Hung Up
Samples – Harry Nilsson – Sixteen Tons
Samples – The Soundtrack of Our Lives – Sister Surround
"11:00 – Casbah Ain't Easy" – 4:27
Samples – Purple Rain
"That's life, man." | "Life my ass, motherfucker! This is a business, and you ain't too far gone to see that yet."
Samples – The Clash – Rock the Casbah
Samples – David Bowie – It Ain't Easy
Samples – Tha Alkaholiks – J-Ro Late Skit
Samples – Dilbert
"Remember, the first rule of brainstorming is to openly mock the opinions of others."
Samples – Another State of Mind
"There's — we're just living in too fast of a society, it's like — nobody has... a lot of people don't have time to do that, they're so preoccupied with other things"
"11:50 – Closer to the Boxer" – 4:55
Samples – Waking Life
"It might be true that there are six billion people in this world, and counting, but nevertheless – what you do makes a difference. It makes a difference, first of all, in material terms, it makes a difference to other people, and it sets an example. In short, I think the message here is..."
Samples – Asheru & Blue Black of the Unspoken Heard feat. Lone Catalysts  – Think About
Samples – The Cure – Close to Me
Samples – Simon & Garfunkel – The Boxer
"12:30 – Nu Rip Off" – 3:29
Samples – Ozzy Osbourne
"Fuck that business shit man. Just give me cocaine and drugs and a flash car and a night club and a couple of groupies and I'll be sound you know."
Samples – Attack of the Show – Kevin Pereira
Insulting Kevin Federline appearing in a video where he displays his new song – "I gotta say like, I.. I respect artists, don't get me wrong, but this is something anybody could whip up in 10 minutes with GarageBand. And watch as the moron at the mixing board, like just loved his pathetic little track. Yeah, exactly."
"That's the fire! | That's the fire. | Fire! | That's the fire."
Samples – DJ Nu-Mark – Imagine – John Lennon cover
Samples – T. Rex – Rip-Off
Samples – The Jetsons – Uniblab
"Back to work, back to work! Everybody; work, work, work, work!"
"13:30 – The Black Devil Is Not Enough" – 3:29
Samples – Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy (BBC Radio Drama)
"Aahhhhhh" – Sirius Cybernetics Corporation door with a 'Genuine People Personality'
Samples – Footloose
"You know what it is, you've got an attitude problem. | Oh, I've got an attitude problem? | I'm not the only one who's noticed."
Samples – Bill Hicks
"I don't fit in anywhere, man. I really don't. I don't agree with anything either, not even what I just said, so I think you see the fucking problem here."
Samples – Nine Inch Nails – Love is Not Enough
Samples – The Doors – An American Prayer
"We're perched headlong on the edge of boredom. We're trying for something that has already found us."
Samples – Jarvis Cocker
"It's a bit like Groundhog Day..."
"14:40 – Quicksilver Manuva" – 5:16
Samples – Quicksilver Messenger Service – Fire Brothers
Samples – Perry Farrell – Letters to Xiola
Samples – This Mortal Coil – Firebrothers
Samples – Roots Manuva – Motion 5000
Samples – Irene Handl – Metal Mickey
"Oi! Wake up! You'll have to go in there, dear, it's gettin' a bit much, I can't cope!"
"16:05 – Unfinished Turkey" – 4:38
Samples – Massive Attack – Unfinished Sympathy
Samples – John Lennon & The Plastic Ono Band – Cold Turkey
Samples – Napoleon Dynamite
"Gosh!"
Samples – Bill Hicks
"I know it doesn't make a lot of sense, but work with me on this..."
"17:00 – Run Outside" – 3:02
Samples – George Michael – Outside
Samples – Martha and the Vandellas – Nowhere to Run
Samples – Bernard Herrmann – Theme from Twisted Nerve
Samples – Kill Bill
"17:30 – Know How Frogs Function" – 3:23
Samples – The Doors – Peace Frog
Samples – Shorty Long – Function at the Junction
Samples – Young MC – Know How Which contains:
Samples – The Incredible Bongo Band – Apache
Samples – Isaac Hayes – Theme from Shaft
Samples – Aqua Teen Hunger Force – Mayhem of the Mooninites
"Is your ego satisfied? | Damn no!"
"Not if you need it; and you need it."
"18:00 – War of Confusion" – 4:13
Samples – The Disposable Heroes of Hiphoprisy – Television Which contains:
Samples – Revenge trailer
"It was a place where everything was legal"
Samples – Frasier
"If you're looking for emotional satisfaction, my advice to you is seek professional help."
Samples – BBC News theme
Samples – Peter Gabriel – Games Without Frontiers
Samples – Peter Gabriel – Sledgehammer
Samples – Stevie Wonder – Superstition
Samples – Genesis – Land of Confusion
Samples – Edwin Starr – War
Samples – George W Bush's 2006 State of the Union
"The best way to break this addiction is through technology."
"19:00 – Careless Or Dead" – 5:51
Samples – Top of the Pops
Samples – Amerie – 1 Thing
Samples – George Michael – Careless Whisper
Samples – Bon Jovi – Wanted Dead or Alive
Samples – Krusty from The Simpsons
"Sorry about this, kids. Stay tuned, we got some real good commercials coming right up! I swear. Heh heh heh... ehh."
Samples – Waking Life
"Hey. You a dreamer?" "Yeah." "Haven't seen too many of you around lately. Things have been tough lately for dreamers. They say dreaming's dead: no one does it anymore. It's not dead, it's just that it's been forgotten. Removed from our language. Nobody teaches it, so nobody knows it exists. Dreamers are banished to obscurity. I'm trying to change all that, and I hope you are too. By dreaming, everyday. Dreaming with our hands and dreaming with our minds. Our planet is facing the greatest problems it's ever faced, ever. So whatever you do, don't be bored. This is absolutely the most exciting time we could have possibly hoped to be alive. Things have just started." "Hey, thanks." "Not a problem!"
"21:00 – Uptight Jet" – 4:01
Samples – The Kleptones – Bite
Samples – The Kleptones – Really Rappin' Something
Samples – Frank Sinatra and Dean Martin from The Rat Pack Live At The Sands
"Let's have a drink!" "You are drinking." "Oh, is that my hand?"
Samples – Stevie Wonder – Uptight (Everything's Alright)
Samples – Jet – Get What You Need
"22:00 – The Underground Hand That Buttoned The Widow" – 5:37
Samples – Circuit Boy (featuring Alan T.) – The Door
"You, to the left: can you move? Marcello, please assist me in rounding up the cattle. Not you, perhaps you, and never you...yes, you, with the large hairdo. Yes, fierceness is always welcome. These are role models."
Samples – Billy Elliot
"What does it feel like when you're dancing?" "Don't know. Sorta feels good. Sorta stiff and that, but once I get going... then I, like, forget everything. And... sorta disappear. Like I feel a change in my whole body. And I've got this fire in my body. I'm just there."
Samples – David Byrne interview 
"Because music is very physical. Enough in t