# Liénard–Wiechert potential

The Liénard–Wiechert potentials describe the classical electromagnetic effect of a moving electric point charge in terms of a vector potential and a scalar potential in the Lorenz gauge. Stemming directly from Maxwell's equations, these describe the complete, relativistically correct, time-varying electromagnetic field for a point charge in arbitrary motion, but are not corrected for quantum mechanical effects. Electromagnetic radiation in the form of waves can be obtained from these potentials. These expressions were developed in part by Alfred-Marie Liénard in 1898 and independently by Emil Wiechert in 1900.

Equations

Definition of Liénard–Wiechert potentials

The retarded time is defined, in the context of distributions of charges and currents, as 
 
where  is the observation point, and  is the observed point subject to the variations of source charges and currents. 
For a moving point charge  whose given trajectory is , 
is no more fixed, but becomes a function of the retarded time itself. In other words, following the trajectory
of  yields the implicit equation 

which provides the retarded time  as a function of the current time (and of the given trajectory): 
.

The Liénard–Wiechert potentials  (scalar potential field) and  (vector potential field) are, for a source point charge  at position  traveling with velocity :

and

where:

  is the velocity of the source expressed as a fraction of the speed of light;

  is the distance from the source;

  is the unit vector pointing in the direction from the source and,

 The symbol  means that the quantities inside the parenthesis should be evaluated at the retarded time .

This can also be written in a covariant way, where the electromagnetic four-potential at  is: 

where  and  is the position of the source and  is its four velocity.

Field computation
We can calculate the electric and magnetic fields directly from the potentials using the definitions:
 and 

The calculation is nontrivial and requires a number of steps. The electric and magnetic fields are (in non-covariant form):

and

where ,  and  (the Lorentz factor).

Note that the  part of the first term updates the direction of the field toward the instantaneous position of the charge, if it continues to move with constant velocity . This term is connected with the "static" part of the electromagnetic field of the charge.

The second term, which is connected with electromagnetic radiation by the moving charge, requires charge acceleration  and if this is zero, the value of this term is zero, and the charge does not radiate (emit electromagnetic radiation). This term requires additionally that a component of the charge acceleration be in a direction transverse to the line which connects the charge  and the observer of the field . The direction of the field associated with this radiative term is toward the fully time-retarded position of the charge (i.e. where the charge was when it was accelerated).

Derivation

The  scalar and  vector potentials satisfy the nonhomogeneous electromagnetic wave equation where the sources are expressed with the charge and current densities  and  

and the Ampère-Maxwell law is:

Since the potentials are not unique, but have gauge freedom, these equations can be simplified by gauge fixing. A common choice is the Lorenz gauge condition:

Then the nonhomogeneous wave equations become uncoupled and symmetric in the potentials:

Generally, the retarded solutions for the scalar and vector potentials (SI units) are

and

where  is the retarded time and  and 
satisfy the homogeneous wave equation with no sources and the boundary conditions. In the case that there are no boundaries surrounding the sources then
 and .

For a moving point charge whose trajectory is given as a function of time by , the charge and current densities are as follows:

where  is the three-dimensional Dirac delta function and  is the velocity of the point charge.

Substituting into the expressions for the potential gives

These integrals are difficult to evaluate in their present form, so we will rewrite them by replacing  with  and integrating over the delta distribution :

We exchange the order of integration:

The delta function picks out  which allows us to perform the inner integration with ease. Note that  is a function of , so this integration also fixes .

The retarded time  is a function of the field point  and the source trajectory , and hence depends on . To evaluate this integral, therefore, we need the identity

where each  is a zero of . Because there is only one retarded time  for any given space-time coordinates  and source trajectory , this reduces to:

where  and  are evaluated at the retarded time , and we have used the identity  with . Notice that the retarded time  is the solution of the equation . Finally, the delta function picks out , and

which are the Liénard–Wiechert potentials.

Lorenz gauge, electric and magnetic fields

In order to calculate the derivatives of  and  it is convenient to first compute the derivatives of the retarded time. Taking the derivatives of both sides of its defining equation (remembering that ):

Differentiating with respect to t,

Similarly, taking the gradient with respect to  and using the multivariable chain rule gives

It follows that

These can be used in calculating the derivatives of the vector potential and the resulting expressions are

These show that the Lorenz gauge is satisfied, namely that .

Similarly one calculates:

By noting that for any vectors , , :

The expression for the electric field mentioned above becomes

which is easily seen to be equal to 

Similarly  gives the expression of the magnetic field mentioned above:

The source terms , , and  are to be evaluated at the retarded time.

Implications

The study of classical electrodynamics was instrumental in Albert Einstein's development of the theory of relativity.  Analysis of the motion and propagation of electromagnetic waves led to the special relativity description of space and time.  The Liénard–Wiechert formulation is an important launchpad into a deeper analysis of relativistic moving particles.

The Liénard–Wiechert description is accurate for a large, independently moving particle (i.e. the treatment is "classical" and the acceleration of the charge is due to a force independent of the electromagnetic field). The Liénard–Wiechert formulation always provides  two sets of solutions: Advanced fields are absorbed by the charges and retarded fields are emitted. Schwarzschild and Fokker considered the advanced field of a system of moving charges, and the retarded field of a system of charges having the same geometry and opposite charges. Linearity of Maxwell's equations in vacuum allows one to add both systems, so that the charges disappear: This trick allows Maxwell's equations to become linear in matter.
Multiplying electric parameters of both problems by arbitrary real constants produces a coherent interaction of light with matter which generalizes Einstein's theory which is now considered as founding theory of lasers: it is not necessary to study a large set of identical molecules to get coherent amplification in the mode obtained by arbitrary multiplications of advanced and retarded fields.
To compute energy, it is necessary to use the absolute fields which includes the zero point field; otherwise, an error appears, for instance in photon counting.

It is important to take into account the zero point field discovered by Planck. It replaces Einstein's "A" coefficient and explains that the classical electron is stable on Rydberg's classical orbits. Moreover, introducing the fluctuations of the zero point field produces Willis E. Lamb's correction of levels of H atom.

Quantum electrodynamics helped bring together the radiative behavior with the quantum constraints. It introduces quantization of normal modes of the electromagnetic field in assumed perfect optical resonators.

Universal speed limit

The force on a particle at a given location  and time  depends in a complicated way on the position of the source particles at an earlier time  due to the finite speed, c, at which electromagnetic information travels. A particle on Earth 'sees' a charged particle accelerate on the Moon as this acceleration happened 1.5 seconds ago, and a charged particle's acceleration on the Sun as happened 500 seconds ago. This earlier time in which an event happens such that a particle at location  'sees' this event at a later time  is called the retarded time, .  The retarded time varies with position; for example the retarded time at the Moon is 1.5 seconds before the current time and the retarded time on the Sun is 500 s before the current time on the Earth.  The retarded time tr=tr(r,t) is defined implicitly by

where  is the distance of the particle from the source at the retarded time. Only electromagnetic wave effects depend fully on the retarded time.

A novel feature in the Liénard–Wiechert potential i