# Scalar field theory

In theoretical physics, scalar field theory can refer to a relativistically invariant classical or quantum theory of scalar fields. A scalar field is invariant under any Lorentz transformation.

The only fundamental scalar quantum field that has been observed in nature is the Higgs field. However, scalar quantum fields feature in the effective field theory descriptions of many physical phenomena.  An example is the pion, which is actually a pseudoscalar.

Since they do not involve polarization complications, scalar fields are often the easiest to appreciate second quantization through.  For this reason, scalar field theories are  often used for purposes of introduction of novel concepts and techniques.

The signature of the metric employed below is .

Classical scalar field theory

A general reference for this section is Ramond, Pierre (2001-12-21). Field Theory: A Modern Primer (Second Edition). USA: Westview Press. ,  Ch 1.

Linear (free) theory
The most basic scalar field theory is the linear theory.  Through the Fourier decomposition of the fields, it represents the normal modes of an infinity of coupled oscillators where the continuum limit of the oscillator index i is now denoted by . The action for the free relativistic scalar field theory is then

where  is known as a Lagrangian density;  for the three spatial coordinates;  is the Kronecker delta function; and   for the -th coordinate .

This is an example of a quadratic action, since each of the terms is quadratic in the field, . The term proportional to  is sometimes known as a mass term, due to its subsequent interpretation, in the quantized version of this theory, in terms of particle mass.

The equation of motion for this theory is obtained by extremizing the action above. It takes the following form, linear in  ,

where ∇2 is the Laplace operator. This is the Klein–Gordon equation, with the interpretation  as a classical field equation, rather than as a quantum-mechanical wave equation.

Nonlinear (interacting) theory

The most common generalization of the linear theory above is to add a scalar potential  to the Lagrangian, where typically, in addition to a mass term, V is a polynomial in . Such a theory is sometimes said to be interacting, because the Euler–Lagrange equation is now nonlinear, implying a self-interaction. The action for the most general such theory is

The n! factors in the expansion are introduced because they are useful in the Feynman diagram expansion of the quantum theory, as described below.

The corresponding Euler–Lagrange equation of motion is now

Dimensional analysis and scaling

Physical quantities in these scalar field theories may have dimensions of length, time or mass, or some combination of the three.

However, in a relativistic theory, any quantity  , with dimensions of time, can be readily converted into a length, , by using the velocity of light,  . Similarly, any length   is equivalent to an inverse mass, , using Planck's constant, . In natural units, one thinks of a time as a length, or either time or length as an inverse mass.

In short, one can think of the dimensions of any physical quantity as defined in terms of just one independent dimension, rather than in terms of all three. This is most often termed the mass dimension of the quantity. Knowing the dimensions of each quantity, allows one to uniquely restore conventional dimensions from a natural units expression in terms of this mass dimension, by simply reinserting the requisite powers of   and  required for dimensional consistency.

One conceivable objection is that this theory is classical, and therefore it is not obvious how Planck's constant should be a part of the theory at all. If desired, one could indeed recast the theory without mass dimensions at all: However, this would be at the expense of slightly obscuring the connection with the quantum scalar field. Given that one has dimensions of mass, Planck's constant is thought of here as an essentially arbitrary fixed reference quantity of action (not necessarily connected to quantization), hence with dimensions appropriate to convert between mass and inverse length.

Scaling dimension
The classical scaling dimension, or mass dimension,  , of   describes the transformation of the field under a rescaling of coordinates:

The units of action are the same as the units of , and so the action itself has zero mass dimension. This fixes the scaling dimension of the field  to be

Scale invariance
There is a specific sense in which some scalar field theories are scale-invariant. While the actions above are all constructed to have zero mass dimension, not all actions are invariant under the scaling transformation

The reason that not all actions are invariant is that one usually thinks of the parameters m and   as fixed quantities, which are not rescaled under the transformation above. The condition for a scalar field theory to be scale invariant is then quite obvious: all of the parameters appearing in the action should be dimensionless quantities. In other words, a scale invariant theory is one without any fixed length scale (or equivalently, mass scale) in the theory.

For a scalar field theory with  spacetime dimensions, the only dimensionless parameter   satisfies   =  . For example, in  = 4, only   is classically dimensionless, and so the only classically scale-invariant scalar field theory in  = 4 is the massless 4 theory.

Classical scale invariance, however, normally does not imply quantum scale invariance, because of the renormalization group involved – see the discussion of the beta function below.

Conformal invariance
A transformation

is said to be conformal if the transformation satisfies

for some function .

The conformal group contains as subgroups the isometries of the metric  (the Poincaré group) and also the scaling transformations (or dilatations) considered above. In fact, the scale-invariant theories in the previous section are also conformally-invariant.

4 theory

Massive 4 theory illustrates a number of interesting phenomena in scalar field theory.

The Lagrangian density is

Spontaneous symmetry breaking

This Lagrangian has a ℤ₂ symmetry under the transformation  .
This is an example of an internal symmetry, in contrast to a space-time symmetry.

If  is positive, the potential 
 
has a single minimum, at the origin. The solution φ=0 is clearly invariant under the ℤ₂ symmetry.

Conversely, if  is negative, then one can readily see that the potential 
 
has two minima. This is known as a double well potential, and the lowest energy states (known as the vacua, in quantum field theoretical language) in such a theory are  invariant under the ℤ₂ symmetry of the action (in fact it maps each of the two vacua into the other). In this case, the ℤ₂ symmetry is said to be spontaneously broken.

Kink solutions
The 4 theory with a negative 2 also has a kink solution, which is a canonical example of a soliton. Such a solution is of the form

where   is one of the spatial variables ( is taken to be independent of  , and the remaining spatial variables). The solution interpolates between the two different vacua of the double well potential. It is not possible to deform the kink into a constant solution without passing through a solution of infinite energy, and for this reason the kink is said to be stable. For D>2 (i.e., theories with more than one spatial dimension), this solution is called a domain wall.

Another well-known example of a scalar field theory with kink solutions is the sine-Gordon theory.

Complex scalar field theory

In a complex scalar field theory, the scalar field takes values in the complex numbers, rather than the real numbers. The complex scalar field represents spin-0 particles and antiparticles with charge. The action considered normally takes the form

This has a U(1), equivalently O(2) symmetry, whose action on the space of fields rotates , for some real phase angle  .

As for the real scalar field, spontaneous symmetry breaking is found if m2 is negative. This gives rise to Goldstone's Mexican hat potential which is a rotation of the double-well potential of a real scalar
field by 2π radians about the V axis. The symmetry breaking takes place in one higher dimension, i.e.  the choice of vacuum breaks a continuous U(1) symmetry instead of a discrete one.
The two components of the scalar field are reconfigured as a massive mode and a massless Goldstone boson.

O(N) theory

One can express the complex scalar field theory in terms of two real fields, φ1 = Re φ   and    φ2 = Im φ, which transform in the vector representation of the U(1) = O(2) internal symmetry. Although such fields transform as a vector under the internal symmetry, they are still Lorentz scalars.

This can be generalised to a theory of N scalar fields transforming in the vector representation of the O(N) symmetry. The Lagrangian for an O(N)-invariant scalar field theory is typically of the form

using an appropriate O(N)-i