# MUSCL scheme

In the study of partial differential equations, the MUSCL scheme is a finite volume method that can provide highly accurate numerical solutions for a given system, even in cases where the solutions exhibit shocks, discontinuities, or large gradients.  MUSCL stands for Monotonic Upstream-centered Scheme for Conservation Laws (van Leer, 1979), and the term was introduced in a seminal paper by Bram van Leer (van Leer, 1979). In this paper he constructed the first high-order, total variation diminishing (TVD) scheme where he obtained second order spatial accuracy.

The idea is to replace the piecewise constant approximation of Godunov's scheme by reconstructed states, derived from cell-averaged states obtained from the previous time-step. For each cell, slope limited, reconstructed left and right states are obtained and used to calculate fluxes at the cell boundaries (edges). These fluxes can, in turn, be used as input to a Riemann solver, following which the solutions are averaged and used to advance the solution in time. Alternatively, the fluxes can be used in Riemann-solver-free schemes, which are basically Rusanov-like schemes.

Linear reconstruction

We will consider the fundamentals of the MUSCL scheme by considering the following simple first-order, scalar, 1D system, which is assumed to have a wave propagating in the positive direction,

Where  represents a state variable and  represents a flux variable.

The basic scheme of Godunov uses piecewise constant approximations for each cell, and results in a first-order upwind discretisation of the above problem with cell centres indexed as .  A semi-discrete scheme can be defined as follows,

This basic scheme is not able to handle shocks or sharp discontinuities as they tend to become smeared. An example of this effect is shown in the diagram opposite, which illustrates a 1D advective equation with a step wave propagating to the right. The simulation was carried out with a mesh of 200 cells and used a 4th order Runge–Kutta time integrator (RK4).

To provide higher resolution of discontinuities, Godunov's scheme can be extended to use piecewise linear approximations of each cell, which results in a central difference scheme that is second-order accurate in space. The piecewise linear approximations are obtained from

Thus, evaluating fluxes at the cell edges we get the following semi-discrete scheme

where  and  are the piecewise approximate values of cell edge variables, i.e.,

Although the above second-order scheme provides greater accuracy for smooth solutions, it is not a total variation diminishing (TVD) scheme and introduces spurious oscillations into the solution where discontinuities or shocks are present. An example of this effect is shown in the diagram opposite, which illustrates a 1D advective equation , with a step wave propagating to the right. This loss of accuracy is to be expected due to Godunov's theorem. The simulation was carried out with a mesh of 200 cells and used RK4 for time integration.

MUSCL based numerical schemes extend the idea of using a linear piecewise approximation to each cell by using slope limited left and right extrapolated states. This results in the following high resolution, TVD discretisation scheme,

Which, alternatively, can be written in the more succinct form,

The numerical fluxes  correspond to a nonlinear combination of first and second-order approximations to the continuous flux function.

The symbols  and  represent scheme dependent functions (of the limited extrapolated cell edge variables), i.e.,

where, using downwind slopes:

and

The function  is a limiter function that limits the slope of the piecewise approximations to ensure the solution is TVD, thereby avoiding the spurious oscillations that would otherwise occur around discontinuities or shocks - see Flux limiter section. The limiter is equal to zero when  and is equal to unity when . Thus, the accuracy of a TVD discretization degrades to first order at local extrema, but tends to second order over smooth parts of the domain.

The algorithm is straight forward to implement. Once a suitable scheme for  has been chosen, such as the Kurganov and Tadmor scheme (see below), the solution can proceed using standard numerical integration techniques.

Kurganov and Tadmor central scheme

A precursor to the Kurganov and Tadmor (KT) central scheme, (Kurganov and Tadmor, 2000), is the Nessyahu and Tadmor (NT) a staggered central scheme, (Nessyahu and Tadmor, 1990).  It is a Riemann-solver-free, second-order, high-resolution scheme that uses MUSCL reconstruction.  It is a fully discrete method that is straight forward to implement and can be used on scalar and vector problems, and can be viewed as a Rusanov flux (also called the local Lax-Friedrichs flux) supplemented with high order reconstructions.  The algorithm is based upon central differences with comparable performance to Riemann type solvers when used to obtain solutions for PDE's describing systems that exhibit high-gradient phenomena.

The KT scheme extends the NT scheme and has a smaller amount of numerical viscosity than the original NT scheme. It also has the added advantage that it can be implemented as either a fully discrete or semi-discrete scheme. Here we consider the semi-discrete scheme.

The calculation is shown below:
 
 
 

Where the local propagation speed, , is the maximum absolute value of the eigenvalue of the Jacobian of  over cells  given by

 

and  represents the spectral radius of 

Beyond these CFL related speeds, no characteristic information is required.

The above flux calculation is most frequently called Lax-Friedrichs flux (though it's worth mentioning that such flux expression does not appear in Lax, 1954 but rather on Rusanov, 1961).

An example of the effectiveness of using a high resolution scheme is shown in the diagram opposite, which illustrates the 1D advective equation , with a step wave propagating to the right. The simulation was carried out on a mesh of 200 cells, using the Kurganov and Tadmor central scheme with Superbee limiter and used RK-4 for time integration. This simulation result contrasts extremely well against the above first-order upwind and second-order central difference results shown above. This scheme also provides good results when applied to sets of equations - see results below for this scheme applied to the Euler equations. However, care has to be taken in choosing an appropriate limiter because, for example, the Superbee limiter can cause unrealistic sharpening for some smooth waves.

The scheme can readily include diffusion terms, if they are present. For example, if the above 1D scalar problem is extended to include a diffusion term, we get

for which Kurganov and Tadmor propose the following central difference approximation,

Where,

Full details of the algorithm (full and semi-discrete versions) and its derivation can be found in the original paper (Kurganov and Tadmor, 2000), along with a number of 1D and 2D examples. Additional information is also available in the earlier related paper by Nessyahu and Tadmor (1990).

Note:  This scheme was originally presented by Kurganov and Tadmor as a 2nd order scheme based upon linear extrapolation.  A later paper (Kurganov and Levy, 2000) demonstrates that it can also form the basis of a third order scheme. A 1D advective example and an Euler equation example of their scheme, using parabolic reconstruction (3rd order), are shown in the parabolic reconstruction and Euler equation sections below.

Piecewise parabolic reconstruction

It is possible to extend the idea of linear-extrapolation to higher order reconstruction, and an example is shown in the diagram opposite. However, for this case the left and right states are estimated by interpolation of a second-order, upwind biased, difference equation. This results in a parabolic reconstruction scheme that is third-order accurate in space.

We follow the approach of Kermani (Kermani, et al., 2003), and present a third-order upwind biased scheme, where the symbols  and  again represent scheme dependent functions (of the limited reconstructed cell edge variables). But for this case they are based upon parabolically reconstructed states, i.e.,

and

Where  = 1/3 and,

and the limiter function , is the same as above.

Parabolic reconstruction is straight forward to implement and can be used with the Kurganov and Tadmor scheme in lieu of the linear extrapolation shown above. This has the effect of raising the spatial solution of the KT scheme to 3rd order. It performs well when solving the Euler equations, see below. This increase in spatial order has certain advantages over 2nd order schemes for smooth solutions, however, for shocks it is more dissipative - compare diagram opposite with above solution obtained using the KT algorithm with linear extrapolation and Superbee limiter. This simulation was carried out on a mesh of 200 cells using the same KT algorithm but with para