# FamilyVoice Australia

FamilyVoice Australia is a conservative Christian organisation. It was known as Festival of Light Australia from 1973 to 2008. Its stated mission was to be "a Christian ministry to the nation, promoting true family values in the light of the wisdom of God". The name was changed to FamilyVoice Australia on 1 July 2008 in order to eliminate confusion with the many other festivals or groups around the world called "Festival of Light" or "Festival of Lights". Key activities of FamilyVoice Australia are providing information to supporters, churches and community leaders and lobbying on issues of concern.

History
It was founded in Adelaide in 1972 as the Australian Festival of Light and Community Standards Organisation, with the name and inspiration from United Kingdom's Nationwide Festival of Light founded in 1971.

It came out of work by the Australian Community Standards Organisation (CSO), which had recently merged with the South Australian Moral Action Committee. Moral Action Committee members included Reverend Lance Shilton, Rector of Holy Trinity Anglican Church in Adelaide and later Anglican Dean of Sydney; Dr John H. Court, then senior lecturer in psychology at Flinders University, and Peter Daniels. South Australian delegates at a CSO meeting in Melbourne in 1972 led the move to hold "a nationwide act of Christian witness, similar to that conducted in Britain last year (Festival of Light)".

Rev. Lance Shilton then initiated an interdenominational steering committee to establish the Australian Festival of Light at a meeting in Toorak Gardens, Adelaide, in November 1972. The committee appointed Dr Court as chairman; Rev Shilton and Mrs Roslyn Phillips as deputy chairmen, and Peter Daniels as publicity officer.

The Festival of Light was formally launched in Adelaide in June 1973 with a media conference and the release of a new book by Dr Court and SA journalist Helen Caterer, Stand Up and Be Counted, which aimed to motivate readers to defend publicly their Christian faith and values.

Lance Shilton's network of contacts through the Australian Evangelical Alliance and the Community Standards Organisation led to the formation of independent branches of Festival of Light (which later included the Community Standards Organisation) in all Australian states. Reverend Fred Nile accepted leadership of the NSW branch in July 1973, becoming the full-time director in January 1974. Mr Nile greatly increased the organisation's activity and public profile.

It was less active after the mid-1980s, but has undergone reconstitution since 2003.

In 2004 the national body of the former Festival of Light Australia was formed under a new constitution, with a national office in Adelaide and branches in South Australia and Queensland. Western Australia, Victoria and New South Wales branches followed in 2005–2007. In 2004 Dr. David Phillips, formerly chairman of the South Australian branch of Festival of Light, became national president of Festival of Light Australia.

On 1 July 2008 its name was changed to FamilyVoice Australia in order to avoid ambiguity, especially on the internet. Dr David Phillips remains the national president and is supported by five state officers, a national research officer and a national administrator.

Views and lobbying efforts
FamilyVoice Australia has opposed same-sex marriage and sex toys being sold in Australian supermarkets. They also oppose same-sex couples being able to adopt children in Australian states, saying that children "do best when raised by a mother and a father" and have argued against altruistic surrogacy. FamilyVoice has stated "a child is at significantly greater risk of abuse in any family type other than an intact two-parent family". FamilyVoice is opposed to the decriminalisation of sex work and the introduction of an R18+ classification for computer games. FamilyVoice has lobbied for mandatory internet filtering following successful campaigns for Internet censorship in the United Kingdom

FamilyVoice Australia has organised a lecture tour for the Christian philosopher Vishal Mangalwadi, who believes that without Christian belief, Western society will experience social collapse. FamilyVoice has criticised philosopher Peter Singer, considering his views "highly offensive".

FamilyVoice joined with other Christian advocacy groups in opposing the listing of Mifepristone on the Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme. At one rally against abortion Geoffrey Bullock stated that 96 per cent of abortions performed in South Australia were for "social convenience reasons". FamilyVoice has made submissions on the partial defence of provocation in New South Wales after Tasmania, Victoria, Western Australia, the Northern Territory and Queensland have changed their laws.

FamilyVoice is opposed to the decriminalisation of cannabis, claiming the drug has "no medical use". FamilyVoice have made submissions to inquiries on drug and alcohol treatment, the provision of alcohol to minors and the prevention of drug and alcohol abuse.

FamilyVoice has made submissions on referendum machinery, bicameral parliaments and electoral funding, opposing caps on political donations

FamilyVoice Australia submissions have included other issues such as human rights, euthanasia, childcare funding, paid parental leave, the commercial television industry code of practice, suicide, men's health, religious freedom, "adult" stores, alcohol-related violence, child sex abuse, equal opportunity laws, reproductive technology and gambling.

FamilyVoice Australia partnered with the Coalition for Marriage and other groups opposed to same-sex marriage, in campaigning for a 'No' vote in the 2017 Australian Marriage Law Postal Survey.

Responses
The 1973 Proclamation of Australian Festival of Light reached out to "all people of good will", but most of those who responded had a Christian background. In 1974 Flinders University historians Hilliard and Warhurst noted that supporters of Festival of Light were mainly Protestants of the Evangelical tradition and conservative Catholics and that some other Christians tended to be critical of the organisation's "overconfident presentation of complex moral issues in simple black and white terms". Hilliard and Warhurst said that despite Festival of Light's promotion among churches around South Australia, some clergy were unresponsive and many congregations did not get involved.

Sometimes there was open controversy. A week before the 1973 visit of Mary Whitehouse, students at the University of Adelaide, Flinders University and the South Australian Institute of Technology (now the University of South Australia) began a "Festival of Fright" campaign against the Australian Festival of Light events, saying, "These latter-day Calvins should be met by as much opposition as freedom-loving people can muster...."

In 1978, South Australian Attorney-General Peter Duncan criticised the Festival of Light, saying: "I believe there is a desperate need to develop a tolerant society… I don't think this sort of hysteria and prejudging that is generated by the Festival of Light does anything to further this move." Duncan also spoke out against the 1978 Festival of Light-sponsored visit to Australia by Whitehouse, calling her "an agent of darkness" and an "opponent of freedom."

Influence on legislation 
The September 1978 Mary Whitehouse visit was influential in the Festival of Light campaign against X-rated pornography. On 12 September, following national media coverage of the pornography problem in relation to the Whitehouse tour, Victorian Liberal Premier Rupert Hamer announced that his government would move to tighten pornography laws, particularly in relation to children.

On 10 September 1978 at the Whitehouse rally in Adelaide's Rymill Park, Festival of Light circulated a petition calling for tighter control of pornography, later signed by over 14,000 South Australians. On 20 September, Labor Premier Don Dunstan delivered a blistering attack on the Festival of Light in the South Australian House of Assembly, calling the petition pamphlet "disgraceful". He said a graph accompanying the petition was "one of the most untruthful pieces of work that I have ever come across" because it showed a rise in South Australian rates of reported rape following a 1974 law allowing the sale of hardcore pornography, compared with Queensland where hardcore pornography was banned and rape reports remained steady. Dunstan said rape convictions should have been used instead of reports, and the graph should have extended beyond 1975.

However, on 27 September, Liberal MP Bruce Eastick defended the Festival of Light petition and graph, and said part of the Premier's speech the week before had been a "blatant untruth". Dr Eastick said rape report statistics from South Australia and Queensland after 1975 showed that "it is quite clear that the problem in South Australia is almost four times as serious as that which exists in Queensland". Liberal MP