# Packed red blood cells

Packed red blood cells, also known as packed cells, are red blood cells that have been separated for blood transfusion. The packed cells are typically used in anemia that is either causing symptoms or when the hemoglobin is less than usually 70–80 g/L (7–8 g/dL). In adults, one unit brings up hemoglobin levels by about 10 g/L (1 g/dL). Repeated transfusions may be required in people receiving cancer chemotherapy or who have hemoglobin disorders. Cross-matching is typically required before the blood is given. It is given by injection into a vein.

Side effects include allergic reactions such as anaphylaxis, red blood cell breakdown, infection, volume overload, and lung injury. With current preparation methods, the risk of viral infections such as hepatitis C and HIV/AIDS are less than one in a million.  Packed red blood cells are produced from whole blood or by apheresis. They typically last for three to six weeks.

The widespread use of packed red blood cells began in the 1960s. It is on the World Health Organization's List of Essential Medicines. A number of other versions also exist including whole blood, leukocyte reduced red blood cells, and washed red blood cells.

Medical uses

RBCs are used to restore oxygen-carrying capacity in people with anemia due to trauma or other medical problems, and are by far the most common blood component used in transfusion medicine. Historically they were transfused as part of whole blood, but are now typically used separately as RBCs and plasma components.

More than 100 million units of blood are collected each year around the world, and about 50% of these are given to people in high income countries.

In low-income countries, the majority of blood transfusions (up to 65%) are given to children under 5 years of age to treat severe childhood anemia. Another major use of blood in low income countries is to treat pregnancy-related complications. Whereas in high-income countries, most blood transfusions are given to people over 65 years of age (up to 76%). In these countries transfusion are most commonly used for supportive care in heart surgery, transplant surgery, massive trauma, and therapy for solid and blood cancers. Due to changes in surgical practices, medical use of blood is now the major use of red blood cells in high-income countries.

Whenever a red cell transfusion is being considered for an individual patient it is good practice to consider not only the hemoglobin level, but also the overall clinical context, patient preferences, and whether there are alternative treatments. If a person is stable and has a hematinic deficiency they should be treated for the deficiency (iron deficiency, B12 deficiency, or folate deficiency) rather than being given a red cell transfusion.

In adults. blood transfusion is typically recommended when hemoglobin levels reach 70 g/L (7 g/dL) in those who have stable vital signs, unless they have anemia due to a hematinic deficiency. Transfusing at a restrictive hemoglobin threshold of between 70 g/L to 80 g/L (7 to 8g/dL) decreased the proportion of people given a red blood cell transfusion by 41% across a broad range of clinical specialties, including those people who are critically ill. There is no evidence that a restrictive transfusion strategy affects death or major adverse events (e.g. cardiac events, myocardial infarction, stroke, pneumonia, thromboembolism, infection) compared with a liberal transfusion strategy. There is not enough information in some patient groups to say whether a restrictive or liberal transfusion threshold is better.

Single unit transfusion 
This refers to transfusing a single unit or bag of red blood cells to a person who is not bleeding and haemodynamically stable followed by an assessment to see if further transfusion is required. The benefits of single unit transfusion include reduced exposure to blood products. Each unit transfused increases the associated risks of transfusion such as infection, transfusion associated circulatory overload and other side effects. Transfusion of a single unit also encourages less wastage of red blood cells.

Upper gastrointestinal bleeding 
In adults with upper gastrointestinal bleeding transfusing at a higher threshold caused harm (increased risk of death and bleeding).

Heart surgery 
A review established that in patients undergoing heart surgery a restrictive transfusion strategy of 70 to 80g/L (7 to 8g/dL) is safe and decreased red cell use by 24%.

Heart disease 
There is less evidence available for the optimal transfusion threshold for people with heart disease, including those who are having a heart attack. Guidelines recommend a higher threshold for people with heart disease of 80g/L (8 g/dL) if they are not undergoing cardiac surgery.

Blood cancers 
There is insufficient evidence to suggest how to manage anemia in people with blood cancers in terms of transfusion thresholds.

Transfusion–dependent anemia 
People with thalassaemia who are transfusion dependent require a higher hemoglobin threshold to suppress their own red cell production. To do this their hemoglobin levels should not be allowed to drop below 90 to 105g/L (9 to 10.5g/dL).

There is insufficient evidence to recommend a particular hemoglobin threshold in people with myelodysplasia or aplastic anemia, and guidelines recommend an individualized approach to transfusion.

Children 
There is less evidence for specific transfusion thresholds in children compared to adults. There has only been one randomized trial assessing different thresholds in children, and this showed no difference between a restrictive or liberal transfusion strategy. This trial used similar thresholds to the adult studies, and transfusing when the hemoglobin is less than 70g/L is also recommended in children.

Neonates 
Neonatal red cell transfusion, and when it is appropriate depends on: the gestational age of the baby; how long since the baby had been born; and also on whether the baby is well or ill.

Side effects
Side effects can include allergic reactions including anaphylaxis, red blood cell breakdown, fluid overload, infection, and lung injury. Giving incompatible RBCs to a person can be fatal.

With current testing methods in high-income countries the risk of infection is very low. However, in low-income countries the risk of a blood donation being positive for HIV, hepatitis C, or syphilis is approximately 1%, and the risk of it being hepatitis B positive is approximately 4%. Although the World Health Organization recommends that all donated blood is screened for these infections, at least 13 low-income countries are unable to screen all their donated blood for at least one of these infections.

Compatibility testing 

To avoid transfusion reactions, the donor and recipient blood are tested, typically ordered as a "type and screen" for the recipient.  The "type" in this case is the ABO and Rh type, specifically the phenotype, and the "screen" refers to testing for atypical antibodies that might cause transfusion problems.  The typing and screening are also performed on donor blood.  The blood groups represent antigens on the surface of the red blood cells which might react with antibodies in the recipient.

The ABO blood group system has four basic phenotypes: O, A, B, and AB.  In the former Soviet Union these were called I, II, III, and IV, respectively.  There are two important antigens in the system: A and B.  Red cells without A or B are called type O, and red cells with both are called AB.  Except in unusual cases like infants or seriously immunocompromised individuals, all people will have antibodies to any ABO blood type that isn't present on their own red blood cells, and will have an immediate hemolytic reaction to a unit that is not compatible with their ABO type.  In addition to the A and B antigens, there are rare variations which can further complicate transfusions, such as the Bombay phenotype.

The Rh blood group system consists of nearly around 50 different antigens, but the one of the greatest clinical interest is the "D" antigen, though it has other names and is commonly just called "negative" or "positive."  Unlike the ABO antigens, a recipient will not usually react to the first incompatible transfusion because the adaptive immune system does not immediately recognize it.  After an incompatible transfusion the recipient may develop an antibody to the antigen and will react to any further incompatible transfusions.  This antibody is important because it is the most frequent cause of hemolytic disease of the newborn.  Incompatible red blood cells are sometimes given to recipients who will never become pregnant, such as males or postmenopausal women, as long as they do not have an antibody, since the greatest risk of Rh incompatible blood is to current or future pregnancies.

For RBCs, type O negative blood is considered a "universal donor" as recipients with types A, B, or AB can almost always receive O negative blood sa