# Luke Watson

Luke Asher Watson (born 26 October 1983 in Port Elizabeth) is a South African former rugby union footballer who can play at flank or eighthman. He has represented and captained the South African Schools rugby team (2001), South Africa's under-19 (2002) and under-21 (2004) teams, as well as the Springbok Sevens team (2001). Watson has also captained both the Western Province and the Super Rugby Stormers. He most recently played for the .

Watson has been controversial due to his relationship with then-national coach Jake White, political interference in his selection for the 2007 Springbok team, interaction with the squad afterwards, and his comments in a speech. Watson told a public gathering on 3 October 2008 that he had to stop himself from vomiting when he wore the Springbok jersey, and referred to black players such as Zola Yeye who during apartheid had been excluded from national selection. The media suggested that Watson had also denigrated Afrikaner players and rugby officials in a question and answer session, although the transcript of the speech does not bear this out.

Consequently, some South African rugby supporters and players (mostly Afrikaners) launched verbal attacks against Watson (often vehement and personal), Afrikaner rights groups like the Afrikanerbond sought his exclusion from rugby, and some spectators vocally expressed their disapproval whenever he played in South Africa.

Watson has denied that he is against Afrikaners, pointing out that not only does he oppose all forms of discrimination but that he also has Afrikaner ancestors. He conceded in 2010 that he had been used as "a political pawn" and that he would have done things differently if he had the chance to do them over. He regretted attending the Springbok training camp in 2007, knowing that neither he, the squad, nor White wanted him to be there.

Youth
Luke Watson is the son of anti-apartheid activist Daniel "Cheeky" Watson, who was also a rugby player of national standard in his youth. Watson comes from a family traditionally strongly committed to Christianity. His grandfather, Daniel John Watson, was a Pentecostal lay preacher and transmitted Christian values to Luke's father while Cheeky was growing up in Grahamstown. Luke Watson has openly admitted to being a committed Christian who wanted to become a minister at the age of 17, and who believes that doing God's work is to help those on the margins. He sports four religious tattoos on his body, including a cross on his right biceps and the reference "Habakkuk 3:17" on his left arm. While living in Cape Town he fed homeless persons three times a week and let them shower at his home. Watson says that he prays continuously while on the field, asking God " 'where the gaps are, where the weaknesses are in defence and help me be in the right place' ". Yet he does not believe in being judgmental, and describes himself as " 'very tentative to preach too quickly' ".

School years
While attending Grey Junior School in Port Elizabeth Luke realized, at the age of 7, that because they associated with blacks and had supported the anti-apartheid struggle, his family was different from other white South Africans. His father had joined the African National Congress in 1978 and had helped to hide cadres from the secret police, who burnt down his home in 1986 as well as his business.
Luke Watson was ostracized by other students and someone wrote "Kill the Watsons" on his desk. When his father was imprisoned his mother, Tracey, hid this from him. He learnt about racism and apartheid from his father, and wanted to represent the change that his father had worked for.

Watson played rugby at Grey High School where he was coached from Grade 10 onwards by Mike Howe. Howe first switched Watson from eighthman to openside flank. Later Howe favourably remembered Watson's ball-fetching skills from rucks and his motivational abilities, but said that at the time his organisational skills "let him down".

In Grade 12 Watson captained Grey High's First XV. He organized a strike of the team after objections were raised that he had abused his position as captain. During his final year of high school Watson told his principal, Roy Simpson, that he was resigning as prefect. Some claim that Watson's resignation was due to his loyalty to "the wrong crowd", while his father maintained it was because the younger Watson had objected to "autocratic leadership" at the school. Despite his actions, Watson was given the Headmaster's Leadership award that year.

With his cousin, Daniel, Luke Watson represented the Eastern Province XV at the 2000 Craven Week. Aged 16, he scored a try in their 21-all draw against Griqualand-West, and was in the Eastern Province schools team that played in a curtain raiser for the test between South Africa and Canada on 10 June. In July 2001 he was back at the Craven Week where he impressed in Eastern Province's 15–17 loss against a Blue Bulls side.

National selection
Watson was selected for the South African Academy side in 2000 that beat the South African Schools side that year. He was invited to a training camp in March 2001 but was not selected for the national under-19 team that participated in the Junior World Championship in Santiago, Chile.

In 2001 Watson was chosen as captain of the South African Schools team that played the French under-18 team twice. The SA Schools side, which included Bismarck du Plessis and Derick Hougaard won the first match in Cape Town 36–15. In the second clash at Loftus Versfeld, which was drawn 23–23, Watson "played well" and scored a try. In October 2001 he was one of five nominees for the Craven Week Player of the Tournament, which was awarded to Derick Hougaard.

In 2002 Watson was chosen to captain South Africa's under-19 team at the IRB Junior World Championship in Italy. The team had three weeks to prepare and beat Chili (48–3) in their first game and England (17–8) on their way to a semifinal in Milan which they lost 41–9 to New Zealand, the eventual champions. The IRB commended Watson for representing the spirit of the competition in being well-spoken and without pretense. Watson told a reporter that it was an honour to be part of Springbok history. He added, "for my Dad, Cheeky Watson, it is a dream come true. He is very proud that his son plays for a unified South African team".

Watson was selected for the South African Sevens team that played at the 2002 Commonwealth Games, replacing Marius Schoeman who withdrew due to a broken arm. Coached by Chester Williams and managed by Rob Louw, the team placed third.
 Watson and teammate Jean de Villiers impressed former England international Matt Dawson as potential future Springboks for the 15-aside format.

Despite speculation that he would be selected for the Springbok squad in 2003, national
coach Rudolf Straeuli overlooked Watson for tests against Scotland and Australia. The national selectors did include him in the South African A-team that faced Argentina A at Wellington on 25 June.

Watson was selected in 2004 to represent South Africa in the IRB's Under 21 Rugby World Championship in a team that included Andries Bekker, Bryan Habana and Wynand Olivier. Coached by Peter de Villiers, the team beat Australia 44–10 to finish third.

Watson later credited former Springbok and national coach Michael du Plessis as the person (apart from his father) who had the greatest influence on his playing abilities early on. His parents asked Du Plessis to help develop a teenage Watson in Port Elizabeth. A reporter claimed that "within two seconds" Du Plessis taught young Watson "more about running lines than other coaches could do in two years".

Early senior career

Eastern Province Elephants, 2002
In 2002 Watson was included in the Eastern Province under-21 team before progressing to the senior squad.

During round one of the Currie Cup Watson was included in the Elephants' first match against the Pumas on 20 July after impressing coach Allister Coetzee with his speed and work rate in the warm-up game against Boland. Watson played alongside experienced players like Paul Treu, who had already represented the Emerging Springboks, and Barry Pinnock, who had played more than 150 times for Eastern Province. Despite having won seven consecutive games prior to the 2002 season, the Elephants lost all but one of their 6 first-round games. In one of these, against the SWD Eagles on 24 August, Watson was "involved in too many incidents off the ball to be of much value to his team". He scored his "first try at senior level" in the match against the Leopards on 7 September. Watson was included in the team that pulled off an unlikely round one victory against unbeaten log leaders the Bulls on 14 September.

The Elephants fared better in the second round of the Bankfin Cup, the bottom division of the Currie Cup, with Watson scoring a try in their come-from-behind 41–35 win against Boland. But he had to withdraw from the semi-final after sust