# St James Garlickhythe

St James Garlickhythe is a Church of England parish church in Vintry ward of the City of London, nicknamed "Wren's lantern" owing to its profusion of windows.

Recorded since the 12th century, the church was destroyed in the Great Fire of London in 1666 and rebuilt by the office of Sir Christopher Wren. It is also the official church of several City livery companies.

History
The church is dedicated to the disciple St James known as 'the Great'. St. James Garlickhythe is a stop on a pilgrims' route ending at the cathedral of Santiago da Compostela. Visitors to the London church may have their credencial, or pilgrim passport, stamped with the impression of a scallop shell.

'Garlickhythe' refers to the nearby landing place, or "hythe", near which garlic was sold in medieval times.

The earliest surviving reference to the church is as ecclesiam Sancti Jacobi in a 12th-century will. Other records of the church refer to it as St James in the Vintry, St James Comyns, St James-by-the-Thames and St James super Ripam.

The ships from France loaded with garlic also carried wine and St James has a long association with wine merchants. The church is located in the city ward of Vintry, and in 1326 the Sheriff of London and vintner Richard de Rothing paid to have the church rebuilt. Another company with long associations with the church is the Joiners' Company, who trace their origins back to a religious guild founded in St James in 1375.

In the following century, the church became collegiate and was served by seven chantry priests. The eminence of St. James in the Middle Ages is reflected in its being the burial place of six Lord Mayors.

St. James became a parish church upon the dissolution of the monasteries under Henry VIII, although the church was not adversely affected – indeed it was a beneficiary of the demolition of church furnishings associated with the Roman Catholic rite. In 1560, the rood screen of the nearby St. Martin Vintry was dismantled and fashioned into pews for St. James. At the same time, the choir was provided with song books.

Another change introduced under Henry VIII was the order that all parishes in England were to maintain a weekly register of births, deaths and marriages. The oldest surviving registers are those of St. James, the first entry being the baptism of Edward Butler on 18 November 1535.

St. James was repaired and expanded several times during the first half of the 17th century – the north aisle being rebuilt in 1624 and a gallery added in 1644.

Under the Commonwealth, the parishioners provided a pension for the rector after he was ousted, in 1647, for using the banned Book of Common Prayer.

All was lost in the Great Fire. Rebuilding began a decade later, as recorded on the Victorian vestry boards prominent in the church porch;

"The foundation thereof were laid AD 1676 – John Hinde and John Hoyle, Church Wardens. It was rebuilt and re-opened 1682 and completely finished AD 1683…". The body of the church may have been finished, but the tower lacked a steeple.

Recorded in the church’s accounts for 1682 are the items

 Two bottles of sherry and pipes [wine containers] at the opening of the church        3.4
 Hire of 3 dozen cushions and porterage                           13.4
 Wine when the Lord Mayor and Aldermen were at our church                 1.11.0
 Wax links to enlighten my Lord Mayor home                          4.6

and a payment of 40s each to Wren's two clerks "for their care and kindness in hastening the building of the church, and to induce them to do the like for the more speedy finishing of the Steeple."

This inducement had no effect. Building on the tower began 33 years later and was finished in 1717 by Nicholas Hawksmoor. The tower was built by Edward Strong the Younger a friend of Christopher Wren the Younger.
The total cost of the church and tower was £7230.

On 12 August 1711 Richard Steele attended a Sunday service led by the Rector Philip Stubbs at St. James, and published the ensuing reflections in Issue 147 of The Spectator. He compares the moving delivery of the rector with a number of stereotypes – the quiet talker, the negligent reader, the fast talker and the bombast, then goes on to criticise the ranting of Presbyterians and Dissenters. Unfortunately, his account includes no description of the congregation or of the church itself.

One month after this sermon, the future composer and Master of the King’s Musick, William Boyce, was baptised in St. James Garlickhythe.

The second half of the 19th century saw a movement of population from the City of London to suburbs in Middlesex, Kent, Essex and Surrey. This left many of the city churches with tiny congregations. In 1860, Charles Dickens attended a Sunday service at St. James Garlickhythe which he describes in The Uncommercial Traveller. The congregation had dwindled to twenty, the building was pervaded with damp and dust, which Dickens uses to convey an impression of the presence of dead parishioners.

The Union of Benefices Act 1860 was passed by Parliament, permitting the demolition of City churches and the sale of land to build churches in the suburbs. While several nearby churches – some of architectural eminence – were destroyed under the Union of Benefices Act, St. James was spared, perhaps due to its links to the guilds.

During World War I, a bomb dropped by a Zeppelin missed the church. In thanksgiving, the church introduced an annual Bomb Sermon.

In May 1941, during the London Blitz a 500 lb German high explosive bomb crashed through the roof of St. James and buried itself below the floor in the south aisle. It did not explode, but was removed to Hackney Marshes and detonated. The buildings surrounding St. James were destroyed by incendiary bombs and this caused much external damage to the church, including the destruction of its clock. While this damage was being repaired in 1953, it was found that the woodwork was infested with the death watch beetle. This caused the church to be closed until 1963, while it was being restored by D. Lockhart-Smith and Alexander Gale. The result was said by Sir John Betjeman to be the best restoration of a City church.

In 1991, during construction of Vintners Hall across Upper Thames Street, a crane collapsed and the jib buried itself in the south wall. This caused the church to be closed again while the south face was rebuilt and some of the furnishings replaced.

Present day
The official dedication is The Parish Church of St James Garlickhythe with St Michael Queenhythe and Holy Trinity the Less.
The parish stretches from Gardners Lane in the west to Angel Passage in the east. Its southern border is the River Thames, and to the north it snakes through the lanes south of Cannon Street.

The area now covers seven pre-Fire parishes: St James Garlickhythe, St Michael Queenhythe, Holy Trinity the Less, St Michael Paternoster Royal, St Martin Vintry, All Hallows the Great, and All Hallows the Less.

It is also responsible for services at the nearby St Michael Paternoster Royal, which lies within the parish boundary.

Sunday and daily services are drawn from the 1662 Book of Common Prayer. It is the church for more than a dozen livery companies (Clockmakers, Coachmakers, Dyers, Educators, Fanmakers, Glass Sellers, Gold and Silver Wyre Drawers, Horners, Joiners and Ceilers, Needlemakers, Painter-Stainers, Parish Clerks, Skinners, Vintners, and Weavers), as well as being the church of the Intelligence Corps.

The parish has passed resolutions A and B of the Priests (Ordination of Women) Measure 1993; this means that female priests and bishops are not permitted to officiate in the church. It receives alternative episcopal oversight from the Bishop of Fulham (currently Jonathan Baker).

Building

St James Garlickhythe is in the shape of a rectangle, with the tower adjacent to the West and a protruding chancel (uniquely for a Wren church) projecting from the East. It is built from brick and Kentish ragstone, partly stuccoed, partly faced (since World War II) with Portland stone. Entrance is through a pedimented doorway with a cherub keystone in the tower, which is flanked by pairs of round headed windows in the west wall. Above is a recessed clerestory wall joined to the tower by semi-rounded pediments.

The south front, facing Upper Thames Street, was formerly built against, and it has only become the main façade since 1971. It is five bays long, with blind round headed windows, the one in the centre being much larger. Above the four outer windows are round clerestory windows. These additions were only made in 1981. The north front is similar, although the windows are real.

The 125 foot tower was originally stuccoed. The plaster was removed in 1897 and old photographs of the church show the undressed wall. It was faced with Portland stone after World War II. The clock on the West face, with the image of St James, is a 1988 replica of a 1682 original. The figure of St James origina