[Experimental Researches in Electricity — Faraday — Gutenberg #55148]

the then head of the house. He was some poor relation evidently, Armand, and his language was very flowery; and from his little book one might have imagined the Saluces a family of saints and lambs. I turned the pages this way and that, till I found what he had to say about Philippe. Philippe de Saluce, according to Armand, had died in consequence of an unfortunate love-affair. It did not say he had drowned his fiancée--that he was a murderer. With the book in my hand I fell asleep, lulled by the drowsy warmth of the room, and the softness of the cushions of the window-seat. When I awoke the light had changed, and, looking at my watch, I found it to be nearly six o'clock. I rose, put the book on the table, and came downstairs. The workmen had gone, and they had locked the door! Not for a few moments did my position realise itself to me. Every door I knew to be barred and locked; every window was also barred on the ground floor, except those that were too narrow for a man's entry or exit. No one would come till the morning. Madame Ancelot would think I had returned to Paris by train, and send the carriage back. I was trapped in the château of Saluce; and at seven o'clock to-morrow I had to meet Von Lichtenberg, or be dishonoured for life! A nice situation, truly! I laughed out loud from pure rage and vexation, and the echo above returned my laughter mockingly. In my despair I tried all the doors, uselessly; they were solid as the doors of the Bastille. Then I remembered a window that was not barred--the stained-glass window of the banqueting-room. It was fifteen feet from the ground, but had it been more I would have risked it. I went to the banqueting-room, and stood before the window, my only way to freedom and honour. It was a lovely creation of stained glass. The arms of the Saluces and the arms of the noble families with whom they were connected stood there, the Lichtenbergs amidst the rest. The evening light, shining through the stained glass, repeated the colours vaguely upon the polished parquet of the floor. The light, shining through the tender colours of the glass, brought with it an indefinable sadness. To break this thing would be like striking the dead, dishonouring the past. An act of vandalism beyond name. This window was more than a window: it was a barrier between me and my fate. The arms of the Lichtenbergs, the Saluces, the Montmorencies, had drawn themselves up before me; it was as if they would stand between me and the encounter of the morrow, but only as a menace. They could offer no real opposition to my physical acts; they could only say, "Take warning!" Then, with the brutality of your kind-hearted man, who, condemned to kill an animal, and loathing the business, strikes fiercely and blindly, causing more destruction than necessary, I seized a heavy bronze bar from the fireplace and attacked the window. The blows echoed from the roof--smash! smash!--and the chattering of falling glass came from the garden-walk outside; the leadwork which had held the glass fragments together bulged out, and had to be broken out by incessant blows, which brought down shower after shower of glass fragments from that part of the window which lay above the line of my attack; and lo! when I had once entered on the business, all remorse fled, and a fury for destruction rose in my heart that I had never felt before, nor had I even suspected my own capacity for the feeling. So, perhaps, Philippe de Saluce felt when he destroyed his lover in a sudden accession of fury. I do not know, but I know that from behind some veil in my mind a new man stepped out, as Monsieur Hyde stepped from the soul of Monsieur Jekyll, and that I smashed and smashed for the pure pleasure, and from the vicious lust of destruction. Condemned to act by Fate, I revenged myself after the fashion of a tiger. Then, tearing a brocaded curtain down from its attachments, I spread it over the glass-splintered edge of the sill, crawled over it, lowered myself, dropped, and was free. As I stood on the garden-path, looking up at the ruin I had accomplished, I heard footsteps. The workmen were returning. "Ah, mon Dieu, monsieur!" cried the chief ouvrier, "we had forgotten you. Not till five minutes ago did Jacques remember that monsieur had not left the house when we bolted the door and came away; so we returned, running all the way from Etiolles." So my destruction of the window had been in vain, it would seem! Not so; for, just as at a first debauch the demon of drunkenness enters a man's heart, so at this orgie of destruction did the demon of destruction enter mine. "Joubert," said I that night, as I went to bed, "you have everything ready for to-morrow?" "All is ready," replied Joubert. "You will call me at half-past five." "Yes, monsieur. And your promise?" "My promise?" "To tell me with whom you are going to fight?" "Ah, yes! Well, I have two affairs on to-morrow morning. I am going to scratch Baron Carl von Lichtenberg on the arm, and I am going to drive my sword through M. de Coigny's heart." "Von Lichtenberg!" cried Joubert. "You are going to fight with a Lichtenberg, one of that accursed lot!" "I am going to fight with M. de Coigny. We have been enemies for years; he has mixed himself in this affair; he has offered himself up as a sacrifice----" "Mon Dieu!" cried the old fellow, drawing back, "is it you that are speaking, or the devil?" I was sitting up in bed; and in a mirror across the room I saw the wan reflection of my own face, and started at the expression of wrath and black hatred portrayed there. I had hated De Coigny for years, but not till now did I know my own capacity for hate. Thus we go through life for years not knowing, till some day some hand draws the curtain back, holds up the mirror, reveals the other man, the Monsieur Hyde who has hidden himself at birth in the heart of Monsieur Jekyll. CHAPTER XXXVI THE DUEL "Half-past five!" Joubert was standing by the window, my bath-towels over his arm. He had drawn up the blind, and the light of early morning filled the room. I could have cursed Joubert, for he had awakened me from a most lovely dream. In a full blaze of sunlight I had been walking in the gardens of Lichtenberg with Eloise; we were children again, and little Carl was marching before us, beating his drum. Past the fountains, past the Running Man carved in stone, we went, then into the shade of the forest, led by little Carl towards some great but indefinable happiness. "Where are they?" I murmured, half unconscious that I was speaking, and rubbing my eyes as if to bring back the happy vision. "Who?" asked Joubert. I did not answer him. Who, indeed? Those children for ever vanished. I dressed rapidly, and breakfasted. I felt both nervous and excited, exactly as I had felt on the night of the production of "Undine." Then I sat down to write a line to Franzius and Eloise. I had divided my property, in case of my death, leaving half to my guardian and half to Eloise. The will was with our lawyer, and I said so in a postscript to my note. When I had finished, Joubert appeared. "The carriage is at the door." I sealed the letter, and handed it to him. "In case of accidents," said I, "post this." Joubert saluted, and put it in his pocket without glancing at the superscription. Joubert was grave. He had never saluted me before, except in a spirit of half mockery--the way one would salute a child. I had been a child in his eyes until now, but now I was evidently a man, his master; and nothing seemed, up to this, to have divided me so sharply from my childhood and my past as this suddenly begotten change in Joubert's manner; and as I stepped from the hall-door on to the pavement I felt that I was stepping for the first time into the world of manhood; that all had been play with me till now, and that now, this morning, the grim business of life had begun. Joubert got on the box beside the coachman, and we started. The early sun was bright on the trees and houses of the Champs Elysées; the trees of the Bois de Boulogne were waving in the early morning breeze; all was bright and all was fair; and it seemed a pity--a thousand pities--to have to die a morning like this, to shut one's eyes for ever, and never more see the sun. As we drew near our destination, I felt exactly as I often had felt in childhood when at the door of the dentist's: a strong desire to return home, coupled with a strong repugnance to face what had to be done. The avenue of the Minimes has vanished. It was a lovely place, tree-sheltered and leading by a pond where the green rushes whispered beneath silvery willows, making a picture after the heart of Puvis de Chavannes. It opened out of a broad drive, and was a favourite spot for the settlement of affairs of honour. "We are first," cried Joubert, turning his head. I stood up. Yes; there was no other carriage; in fact, we were ten minutes before our time--a great mistake, for a ten minutes' wait in an affair of this description is one of the most unsettling things possible for the nerves of a man. We drew up near the entrance to the Avenue des Minimes, and, getting out, I paced up and down, for the early morning was chilly, though it gave promise of a glorious day. Ah! here they came--at least, some of them. A carriage rapidly driven was coming along the drive. There were three gentlemen in it, my seconds, De Brissac and M. de Champfleury, and a tall personage who turned out to be Colonel Savernac, the extra friend whom I had asked De Brissac to bring. We had scarcely exchanged greetings when another carriage arrived, containing De Coigny and Baron Struve--who were the seconds of the Baron Carl von Lichtenberg--and Dr. Pons, the surgeon. The seconds of either party bowed one to the other. De Brissac took out his watch. "What time do you make it, M. de Coigny?"