# Exchange interaction

In chemistry and physics, the exchange interaction or exchange splitting (with an exchange energy and exchange term) is a quantum mechanical effect that only occurs between identical particles. Despite sometimes being called an exchange force in an analogy to classical force, it is not a true force as it lacks a force carrier.

The effect is due to the wave function of indistinguishable particles being subject to exchange symmetry, that is, either remaining unchanged (symmetric) or changing sign (antisymmetric) when two particles are exchanged. Both bosons and fermions can experience the exchange interaction. For fermions, this interaction is sometimes called Pauli repulsion and is related to the Pauli exclusion principle. For bosons, the exchange interaction takes the form of an effective attraction that causes identical particles to be found closer together, as in Bose–Einstein condensation.

The exchange interaction alters the expectation value of the distance when the wave functions of two or more indistinguishable particles overlap. This interaction increases (for fermions) or decreases (for bosons) the expectation value of the distance between identical particles (compared to distinguishable particles). Among other consequences, the exchange interaction is responsible for ferromagnetism and the volume of matter. It has no classical analogue.

Exchange interaction effects were discovered independently by physicists Werner Heisenberg and Paul Dirac in 1926.

"Force" description

The exchange interaction is sometimes called the exchange force. However, it is not a true force and should not be confused with the exchange forces produced by the exchange of force carriers, such as the electromagnetic force produced between two electrons by the exchange of a photon, or the strong force between two quarks produced by the exchange of a gluon.

Although sometimes erroneously described as a force, the exchange interaction is a purely quantum mechanical effect unlike other forces.

Exchange interactions between localized electron magnetic moments
Quantum mechanical particles are classified as bosons or fermions. The spin–statistics theorem of quantum field theory demands that all particles with half-integer spin behave as fermions and all particles with integer spin behave as bosons. Multiple bosons may occupy the same quantum state; however, by the Pauli exclusion principle, no two fermions can occupy the same state. Since electrons have spin 1/2, they are fermions. This means that the overall wave function of a system must be antisymmetric when two electrons are exchanged, i.e. interchanged with respect to both spatial and spin coordinates. First, however, exchange will be explained with the neglect of spin.

Exchange of spatial coordinates
Taking a hydrogen molecule-like system (i.e. one with two electrons), one may attempt to model the state of each electron by first assuming the electrons behave independently, and taking wave functions in position space of  for the first electron and  for the second electron.  We assume that  and  are orthogonal, and that each corresponds to an energy eigenstate of its electron.  Now, one may construct a wave function for the overall system in position space by using an antisymmetric combination of the product wave functions in position space:

Alternatively, we may also construct the overall position–space wave function by using a symmetric combination of the product wave functions in position space:

Treating the exchange interaction in the hydrogen molecule by the perturbation method, the overall Hamiltonian, composed of the Hamiltonian of the unperturbed separate hydrogen atoms  and the perturbation  is:

where  and 

The first two terms denote the kinetic energy, the following terms the potential energy corresponding to: proton–proton repulsion (Rab), electron–electron repulsion (r12), and electron–proton attraction (ra1/a2/b1/b2). All quantities are assumed to be real.

Two eigenvalues for the system energy are found:

where the E+ is the spatially symmetric solution and E− is the spatially antisymmetric solution, corresponding to  and  respectively.  A variational calculation yields similar results.   can be diagonalized by using the position–space functions given by Eqs. (1) and (2).  In Eq. (3), C is the two-site two-electron Coulomb integral (It may be interpreted as the repulsive potential for electron-one at a particular point  in an electric field created by electron-two distributed over the space with the probability density ,  is the overlap integral, and Jex is the exchange integral, which is similar to the two-site Coulomb integral but includes exchange of the two electrons. It has no simple physical interpretation, but it can be shown to arise entirely due to the anti-symmetry requirement. These integrals are given by:

Although in the hydrogen molecule the exchange integral, Eq. (6), is negative, Heisenberg first suggested that it changes sign at some critical ratio of internuclear distance to mean radial extension of the atomic orbital.

Inclusion of spin
The symmetric and antisymmetric combinations in Equations (1) and (2) did not include the spin variables (α = spin-up; β = spin-down); there are also antisymmetric and symmetric combinations of the spin variables:

To obtain the overall wave function, these spin combinations have to be coupled with Eqs. (1) and (2).  The resulting overall wave functions, called spin-orbitals, are written as Slater determinants. When the orbital wave function is symmetrical the spin one must be anti-symmetrical and vice versa. Accordingly, E+ above corresponds to the spatially symmetric/spin-singlet solution and E− to the spatially antisymmetric/spin-triplet solution.

J. H. Van Vleck presented the following analysis:

The potential energy of the interaction between the two electrons in orthogonal orbitals can be represented by a matrix, say Eex.  From Eq. (3), the characteristic values of this matrix are C ± Jex.  The characteristic values of a matrix are its diagonal elements after it is converted to a diagonal matrix.  Now, the characteristic values of the square of the magnitude of the resultant spin,  is .  The characteristic values of the matrices  and  are each  and .  The characteristic values of the scalar product  are  and , corresponding to both the spin-singlet (S = 0) and spin-triplet (S = 1) states, respectively.
From Eq. (3) and the aforementioned relations, the matrix Eex is seen to have the characteristic value C + Jex when  has the characteristic value −3/4 (i.e. when S = 0; the spatially symmetric/spin-singlet state).  Alternatively, it has the characteristic value C − Jex when  has the characteristic value +1/4 (i.e. when S = 1; the spatially antisymmetric/spin-triplet state).   Therefore,

and, hence,

where the spin momenta are given as  and .

Dirac pointed out that the critical features of the exchange interaction could be obtained in an elementary way by neglecting the first two terms on the right-hand side of Eq. (9), thereby considering the two electrons as simply having their spins coupled by a potential of the form:

It follows that the exchange interaction Hamiltonian between two electrons in orbitals Φa and Φb can be written in terms of their spin momenta  and . This interaction is named the Heisenberg exchange Hamiltonian or the Heisenberg–Dirac Hamiltonian in the older literature:

Jab is not the same as the quantity labeled Jex in Eq. (6).  Rather, Jab, which is termed the exchange constant, is a function of Eqs. (4), (5), and (6), namely,

However, with orthogonal orbitals (in which  = 0), for example with different orbitals in the same atom, Jab = Jex.

Effects of exchange
If Jab is positive the exchange energy favors electrons with parallel spins; this is a primary cause of ferromagnetism in materials in which the electrons are considered localized in the Heitler–London model of chemical bonding, but this model of ferromagnetism has severe limitations in solids (see below).  If Jab is negative, the interaction favors electrons with antiparallel spins, potentially causing antiferromagnetism.  The sign of Jab is essentially determined by the relative sizes of Jex and the product of . This sign can be deduced from the expression for the difference between the energies of the triplet and singlet states, E− − E+:

Although these consequences of the exchange interaction are magnetic in nature, the cause is not; it is due primarily to electric repulsion and the Pauli exclusion principle. In general, the direct magnetic interaction between a pair of electrons (due to their electron magnetic moments) is negligibly small compared to this electric interaction.

Exchange energy splittings are very elusive to calculate for molecular systems at large internuclear distances. However, analytical formulae have been worked out for the hydrogen molecular ion (see references herein).

Normally, exchange interactions are very sh