# Nissan Sylphy

The  is a compact car produced by the Japanese car maker Nissan since 2000 as the successor to the Nissan Pulsar. The Sylphy has also been marketed in export markets under several other nameplates, including Pulsar, Almera, Sunny and Sentra. For the third-generation model (B17) introduced in 2012, the Sylphy model was merged with the B17 Sentra, meaning it is no longer a standalone model.

Until 2012, it is known as the  in Japan. The initial Bluebird Sylphy nameplate was a continuation for the larger Bluebird which was phased out in 2001. It was renamed the Sylphy for the third-generation model in 2012.



First generation (G10/N16; 2000) 

Nissan launched the G10 or N16 series Bluebird Sylphy in August 2000 as replacement in the Japanese market for the Nissan Pulsar (N15), and it was exclusive to Japanese dealerships called Nissan Blue Stage. The model code of "G10" used in Japan differed from most other markets which retained the legacy N-series (N16) naming scheme inherited from the Pulsar. The change in name from Pulsar to Bluebird Sylphy in Japan came about as Nissan was about to phase out the long-running Bluebird, and this kept the old name alive. Export markets received this same vehicle under a myriad of alternative names: Almera in Europe and Brunei; Pulsar in Australasia; Sentra in Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines and Taiwan; plus Sunny in Hong Kong, Singapore, Thailand, Sri Lanka and the Middle East. It was not available in North America; instead, there was the Sunny-based Nissan Sentra (B15).

The Bluebird Sylphy was made available in a single body style, a well equipped small four-door sedan. The factory in the UK, where the N16 was manufactured as the Almera, continued to produce three- and five-door hatchback versions. These European models featured slightly different frontal styling—a unique grille, bonnet and bumper accommodated the headlamp design shared with Japanese models. Some European markets also received an Almera sedan model, which featured the same frontal styling as the hatchbacks. British-made Almeras also saw some exports outside of Europe, mainly to Australia and with Pulsar badging.

The new platform spawned a compact MPV version (the Nissan Almera Tino or Nissan Tino) for the first time. The Nissan Wingroad continued to be sold as the Pulsar wagon or Almera Traveller in many countries.

The original release Bluebird Sylphy had a vertical chrome grille with Nissan emblem on the bonnet. In February 2003, the Bluebird Sylphy received minor changes with a revised grille (with the Nissan emblem moved onto the grille) and an all-new rear end with J31 Teana-inspired tail lights. This update also applied to the Sunny and Sentra models in Southeast Asia. Australian Pulsar sedans received the same update, although a horizontally-stated grille featured instead.

In October 2005, the second generation Nissan Bluebird Sylphy (G11 series) was previewed at the Tokyo Motor Show. In Japan, the Nissan Tiida hatchback and Tiida Latio sedan replaced also replaced the G10/N16 range, particularly in export markets where the G11 was not offered.

Although the release of the G11 series Sylphy and Tiida signified the withdrawal of the G10/N16 from many markets, it was facelifted for an October 2005 release as a budget model to sit beneath the G11 Sylphy and Tiida in Southeast Asian markets such as Malaysia, Singapore and Thailand. This more substantial front-end facelift allowed for the fitment of reshaped headlamps, a revised front bumper and fenders, and a new grille and bonnet.

Regions

Asia 

In Japan, the Nissan Revival Plan was implemented, and saw the reorganization of Nissan's Japanese dealership network, introducing Nissan Red Stage as the sole provider of all Sunny/Pulsar vehicle platforms formerly available at Nissan Satio/Nissan Cherry/Nissan Prince locations. Engine choices consisted of the 1.5- QG15DE, 1.6- QG16DE, 1.8- QG18DE, and the 2.0-litre QR20DD. A five-speed manual transmission is only available for the 1.5-litre, the other models featuring a four-speed automatic transmission with the 2.0l motor mated to a CVT. The four-wheel drive version was only offered with the 1.8-litre model.

In Thailand, where the Sunny name was used, alongside the sedan, the five-door was also sold (imported from the UK). Consequently, each body style has a different front end. China, Singapore and Sri Lanka also received the sedan model only under the Sunny name. In China, it was produced by the Dongfeng Motor Company, a joint venture with Nissan.

In Singapore, the N16 succeeded the B15 model in the year 2000. It was available in two engine variants, both 1.5-litre and 1.6-litre. In 2004, a facelifted model was introduced. The facelifted model was only available with a 1.6-litre engine. It continued to be available for sale, until the year 2011. Both versions came in manual and automatic transmissions. Nissan Sunny was only sold in the sedan variant, imported from Japan.

In the Philippines, the pre-facelift N16 model was known as the Nissan Sentra Exalta (available from 2001 to 2003; Where the "Exalta" name was previously used at the luxurious versions of the B14 Sentra). This early model is similar to the JDM Bluebird Sylphy. Nissan Philippines then introduced a model with new headlights and tail lights. The Exalta name was dropped and was renamed back to Sentra. The B16 Sentra was introduced in the Philippines, where it is sold as the Sentra 200 and was sold alongside the Pulsar-based N16 model for awhile. Sales ended in the Philippine market in 2014.

In Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines and Taiwan, the Bluebird Sylphy is sold as the Nissan Sentra. For Indonesia, Nissan sold the Sentra between 2002 and 2004 in small numbers for private buyers in a single trim level, the 1.8 Super Saloon. It featured standard ABS, dual airbags, leather interior, and CD player with MP3. The facelifted model N16, the Sunny Neo was powered by the 1.6-litre engine was and intended for taxi use only.

After the Japanese production ended in 2005, the N16 maintained in production in Malaysia and the Philippines as the Sentra—albeit, sporting new front-end styling treatment. The models for Malaysia are SG and SG-L, with the choice of Comfort or Luxury Package. The Sunny continued to be offered in Singapore until 2011 in the following trim levels: EX Saloon, Super Saloon, and Luxury Edition. Exclusive for the local market, the Malaysian-built N16 was made available until 2014 as the Sentra Sport 1.6 in Comfort and Luxury trim levels. It is unrelated to the North American Sentra.

Australia 
In Australia and New Zealand, Nissan continued to use the Pulsar name for the N16 series. The four-door sedan sourced from Japan and the five-door hatchback from the UK (a rebadged Almera) were offered. Consequently, each body style has a different front end.

Trim levels were LX, ST, Q and Ti. Engine choices consisted of the 1.6- and 1.8-litre petrols. Power output was  and . The four-door was available in four trim levels—an LX with the 1.6, the ST and Ti with the 1.8-litre engine as standard, and a Q version with the 1.8-litre and a sportier level of trim, including a rear spoiler and alloy wheels. In the five-door range there was no LX version. Nissan launched the hatchback model with the ST trim level and a sporty Q version. As such, all hatches were 1.8-litre powered. The base-model LX sedan came with a driver's airbag, air-conditioning, remote locking and power mirrors, although no anti-lock brakes (ABS) or power windows were offered. The ST five-door gained an extra front airbag, whereas the four-door model did not have one as standard. In Ti form, the four-door gained both front airbags, ABS, climate control air-conditioning, alloy wheels and power windows. The Q model was similar to the Ti four-door, although there were slight discrepancies between the sedan and hatch, with the latter version having an extra air-bag and 15-inch alloy wheels versus the 14-inch alloys on the sedan.

Sedan

Hatchback

Europe 

For the European market, Nissan sold the N16 series as the second generation Nissan Almera from 2000. Produced in the United Kingdom, the Almera range comprised three- and five-door hatchbacks and the less common sedan. Compared to other markets, the European-manufactured cars featured unique frontal styling — while the headlamps remained common with Japanese models — a restyled grille, bonnet, and bumper did feature. A facelift was released in 2003, with production continuing until the Almera's demise in 2006.

Renault Samsung SM3 
From 2006, a derivative of the Bluebird Sylphy, the Renault Samsung SM3 was sold in Ukraine and Russia as the Nissan Almera Classic. The same year, the car was launched in Central and South America as Nissan Almera, (except in Chile where it was sold as a Samsung). Also since 2007, the Renault Samsung SM3 is sold as the Nissan Sunny in the Middle East, with a single trim that comes with a 1.5-litre engine.