# List of DC Comics characters: F

Fallout

Fallout is a fictional character appearing in American comic books published by DC Comics.

Fallout in other media
Fallout appears in the fourth season of The Flash, portrayed by Ryan Alexander McDonald. This version gained his powers after the Thinker tricked the Flash into exposing the former to dark matter. Due to his uncontrollable powers, Team Flash bring Borman to A.R.G.U.S. custody, but Clifford DeVoe kidnaps and turns him into a sacrificial power source for the "Enlightenment" satellite.

False Face

False Face is a name used by a number of different supervillains appearing in American comic books published by DC Comics.

The concept and first character, created by Mort Weisinger and Creig Flessel, first appeared in Leading Comics #2 (spring 1942) using the name "Falseface". The name was later adjusted to "False Face" mirroring minor characters introduced by Fawcett Comics and Timely Comics.

Variations of the character have been introduced in Batman #113 (February 1958) and Birds of Prey #112 (January 2008). In all instances the character is only identified as "False-Face" or by an alias while in disguise.

First Golden Age version
The first False-Face seen was among the five small-time criminals hired by organizer Black Star. Along with his colleagues Captain Bigg, Hopper, Brain and Rattler, he staged a robbery at a city bank by disguising himself as a construction worker. False-Face drilled through a water main and used the pressurised escaping water to blast a hole into the bank. After he and his friends robbed the bank, they used a paddy wagon as their getaway vehicle while disguised as police officers. Under the orders of Black Star, False-Face was sent to New Orleans to rob riches from those sponsoring the Mardi Gras event. He and his henchmen disguised themselves as a Clown Krewe and insinuated themselves onto a parade float. This managed to attract the attention of Shining Knight who was in the area at the time. False-Face escaped, but his henchmen were apprehended. He then attempted to steal the Star Sapphire Gem from Mardi Gras organizer J.J. Ennis. To do this, False-Face disguised himself as a police detective and infiltrated Ennis' house. He once again fought against the Shining Knight, and briefly subdued him, but the Shining Knight escaped from False-Face's trap and defeated him. False-Face was then arrested by the police. At this point, it was discovered that the unpleasant face he usually presented was not false at all. Much later, he confronts the Star-Spangled Kid.

Second Golden Age version

A different False Face dies in a confrontation with Captain Marvel, Jr. While not the same character as created for DC, the publisher would later license and eventually purchase the characters and stories that Fawcett published. The material would be assigned to "Earth-S" within the continuity of the DC Universe.

Silver Age version
The late 1950s version of the character, created by an uncredited writer and Sheldon Moldoff, appeared once in Batman #113.

Little is known of the Caped Crusaders' first meeting with the villain, but on their second chance encounter they found that he had impersonated a wealthy uranium tycoon named P.S. Smithington. As Smithington, False-Face robbed a Gotham City jewelry store, framing the true Smithington for the crime. Batman managed to rescue the actual Smithington, but was unable to recover the stolen jewels. At police headquarters, Commissioner James Gordon supplied Batman and Robin with information about the case and the two gave chase. This time, False-Face kidnapped rock star Wally Weskit during a charity benefit concert and concealed him in an elevator shaft. As False-Face assumed the form of Wally Weskit, his henchman Pebbles attempted to make off with the charity proceeds. Batman and Robin managed to prevent this, but False-Face and his gang escaped. The third time that False-Face struck, he impersonated a safari hunter named Arthur Crandall to get into the Gotham City's Explorer Club. While attempting to steal the club's Golden Tiger Trophy, Batman and Robin arrived and were on his heels again. He lured Batman towards a large water tank and managed to temporarily trap him, but the Dark Knight detective succeeded in outsmarting False Face and his men, apprehending the entire group in the process. False Face was taken to prison whereupon he soon retired from his life of crime.

Modern Age version

The late 2000s version of the character, created by Tony Bedard and David Cole, first appeared in Birds of Prey #112 (January 2008).

She and White Star targeted Lady Blackhawk so that False-Face can take her place in Barbara Gordon's organization. Zinda managed to elude them with the help of her taxi driver Mahoud.

False Face in other media
 False Face appears in Batman (1966), portrayed by Malachi Throne.
 False Face appears in Batman '66 #23, in which his real name is revealed to be Basil Karlo before he obtains a special formula that transforms him into Clayface.
 False-Face appears in the Batman Beyond episode "Plague", voiced by Townsend Coleman. This version has the ability to assume anyone's identity by altering his face, which he achieved through years of genetic manipulation and surgery. Kobra hires him to smuggle a deadly virus into Gotham City to infect its citizens and ransom the city, turning him into a carrier as backup. After running afoul of Batman and Stalker, False-Face attempts to evade them, only to succumb to and die from the virus.
 False-Face appears in Batman: The Brave and the Bold, voiced by Corey Burton. This version resembles the Batman (1966) incarnation.

Faora

Fast Track
Fast Track (Meena Dhawan) is a fictional character in DC Comics. Created by Joshua Williamson, Paul Pelletier and Howard Porter, she first appeared in The Flash (vol. 5) #3 (September 2016), as Fast Track in The Flash (vol. 5) #5 (October 2016), and as the Negative Flash in The Flash (vol. 5) #35 (January 2018).    

Dhawan is the director of S.T.A.R. Labs' Central City branch which is involved in training speedsters, such as Avery Ho and Ace West, and additionally possesses speedster abilities herself, having gained them from a Speed Force storm in Central City. She briefly dated Barry Allen while having encounters with Joseph Carver of Black Hole before being seemingly killed by Godspeed. 

However, Dhawan returns as the Negative Flash after being revived and powered by the Negative Speed Force and brainwashed by Gorilla Grodd, fighting Allen and Kid Flash. Dhawan helped generate the Negative Speed Force storm as Black Hole's enforcer before being freed by Allen, helping restore Central City back to normal, and willingly surrendering herself to Iron Heights Penitentiary. 

Fast Track is among the speedsters that help to fight Professor Zoom / Reverse-Flash and the Legion of Zoom.

Fast Track in other media
Meena Dhawan / Fast Track appears in the eighth season of The Flash, portrayed by Kausar Mohammed. This version is the CEO of Fast Track Laboratories who is in love with Eobard Thawne's amnesiac time remnant. The two create the Biometric Lightning Oscillation Chamber (BLOC) to grant her super-speed, though the device unintentionally connects her to the Negative Speed Force before Thawne and Barry Allen save her. Dhawan later helps Allen and Team Flash fight the Negative Forces.

Fauna Faust

Fauna Faust, commonly known as Fauna, is a supervillain published by DC Comics and debuted in the 1993 Outsiders series. She is daughter of Felix Faust and younger sibling of Sebastian Faust. Like her brother, she suffered abused from Felix and also had her soul sold, only gaining power to influence animals and the power to use magic without demonic assistance. She is also openly a lesbian.

She would become a member of Kobra Cult's elite strike force, the Strike Force Kobra and secretly work alongside her father as an enemy of both her brother and the second incarnation of the Outsiders superhero team while also being a secret confidante her father. During her time within Strikeforce Kobra, she entered a relationship with fellow supervillain, the fourth Synonide. She would meet her brother once more and the Outsiders and battles the team, losing her lover after Eradicator kills her. She is then called forth by her father and punished due to blowing her role as a surprise weapon against the Outsiders. She later assist her father in battling the Outsider though Felix is defeated and Fauna is free from the influences of her father.

Eventually, the character would reappear in DC Universe series, Raven: Daughter of Darkness. In this new continuity, she instead uses her magical talents for thievery. She is killed after an encounter with an evil force known as the "Shadow-Riders".

Felix Faust

Carl Ferris

Carl Ferris is the founder of Ferris Aircraft, an aerospace/defense manufacturer based out of Coast City. One of his best pilots, Martin Jordan (the father of Hal Jordan), was killed