# WPHM

WPHM (1380 kHz) is a commercial AM radio station in Port Huron, Michigan. The station broadcasts a News/Talk/Sports radio format.  It is owned by Radio First with studios on Huron Avenue in Downtown Port Huron.

WPHM is powered at 5,000 watts.  To protect other stations on 1380 AM from interference, it uses a directional antenna with a seven-tower array.  The signal covers much of The Thumb area of Michigan.  The transmitter is on Range Road in St. Clair, Michigan, near the St. Clair River.

Programming includes a local morning talk show with syndicated news and sports programs the rest of the day. Local newscasts are branded as coming from the Blue Water News Network.

Most hours begin with an update from ABC News Radio. The station is also a partial affiliate of Fox Sports Radio. Play by play sports coverage includes the Detroit Tigers, Detroit Lions, Detroit Pistons, Detroit Red Wings, and Michigan State Spartans.

Programming
Weekdays on WPHM begin with a live and local morning drive time information and talk show, hosted by Paul Miller with local news from Caleb Gordon.  The rest of the station's lineup is syndicated talk programs and play-by-play sports.  They include The Brian Kilmeade Show, The Chad Benson Show, The Tom Sullivan Show, Our American Stories with Lee Habeeb, Fox Sports Radio, Coast to Coast AM with George Noory, and This Morning, America's First News with Gordon Deal.

Weekends feature shows on home repair, technology, law, religion and the outdoors.  Weekend syndicated shows include At Home with Gary Sullivan, Bill Handel on the Law and Rich DeMuro on Tech.   Most hours begin with an update from ABC News Radio. WPHM is also an affiliate of Bloomberg Radio, Brownfield Ag News, Fox Sports Radio, the Michigan News Network, Michigan State Spartans, and all four Detroit professional sports teams.

History

WTTH
The station signed on the air on .  Its original call sign was WTTH, which stood for The Times Herald, the name of Port Huron's only daily newspaper.  It was originally powered at 1,000 watts.

The newspaper operated the station from its debut until 1970, when it was sold to Enterform, Inc.  That name derived from the words ENTERtainment and inFORMation.  The station continued to operate from the original WTTH studio location in the newspaper building after the sale to Enterform, which boasted a large front area originally used for performing live radio programs.  It also once hosted Paul Harvey doing his national news program at this remote location.

1380 becomes WPHM
Following its acquisition by Enterform in 1970, WTTH's call letters were changed to WPHM, to more accurately reflect the station's commitment to community service. In 1978, Enterform moved the studio to the newly remodeled and outfitted location at 2379 Military Street, and updated the studio-transmitter audio link from the old telephone line to a microwave system.  In 1986, Enterform sold WPHM to Hanson Communications.

Though much of WPHM's history did not involve a co-owned FM station to enhance its profitability, it didn't need one.  Somewhat unusual for a market this size was that two AM stations dominated the radio landscape, both with programming that included highly competitive news departments.  Its advantage over longtime crosstown rival WHLS (a single tower 1000 watt "Local" station) was its powerful "Regional" signal of 5,000 watts, boasting seven towers (six-tower parallelogram daytime, 4 towers inline at night), able to reach listeners north of Port Huron, known as the Thumb area.  For this reason, the station was billed for years as "The Big Station in Michigan's Thumb".

WPHM had maintained a longtime agreement with the ABC radio network and the Associated Press, which gave the station the tools it needed to be a strong local news competitor against WHLS and sister station WSAQ.  It was that, a highly talented sales force, and longtime morning personality John Hill (who retired in 2002 before his death in 2012) that established WPHM as a force to be reckoned with in St. Clair County.  WPHM was also the first in the market (even among its Detroit counterparts) to invest in hard-disk computer-based on-air technology in the early 1990s.

WPHM for decades now has used a jingle package originally produced for WABC in New York by JAM Creative Productions. "Information Radio 1380 WPHM" is sung in place of "News Talk Radio 77 WABC" during these jingles. WABC-themed news and weather beds are also utilized by WPHM,  part of the original JAM creative package.

WPHM gains an FM sister: B96.9
Despite WPHM's success on its own, Hanson Communications still aspired to buy or build a local FM property.  That opportunity finally presented itself in June 1992, when Hanson acquired CHR-formatted WBTI 96.9 FM, licensed to the city of Lexington, north of Port Huron.  The station had been on the air for less than a year.  The FCC approved the $350,000 sale to Hanson from Martz Communications a month later.  WBTI was then moved to WPHM's offices at 2379 Military Street in Port Huron.

As further proof of how dominant WPHM was over its new FM sister, WPHM outbilled WBTI 10 to 1 in 1993.

Into the 1990s and the new millennium
In 1997, Hanson Communications began negotiations with David Barr, owner and president of Barr/Schremp Communications in Marine City, about 12 miles south of Port Huron.  Barr, who was operating syndicated talk-formatted WIFN (now WHLX), wanted to leave the Detroit radio business and pursue other radio opportunities north of Detroit in Traverse City.

Hanson Communications purchased WIFN the following year and, after a brief period of simulcasting WIFN with WBTI, replaced its talk format with one of classic country, provided by ABC/SMN's "Real Country" satellite-based format in Dallas, increasing its portfolio to three stations. Hanson then vacated WIFN's (then WHYT-AM) studio from its co-located transmitter facility at 5300 Marine City Highway and moved programming operations to 2379 Military Street as well.

Lee Hanson died Thursday, November 12, 2015.

Liggett and the creation of Radio First

In early 2000, Robert Liggett, owner of Big Boy Restaurants and former owner of several Central Michigan radio stations entered into an agreement to purchase Hanson Communications of Port Huron. Liggett also approached WPHM's crosstown competitor Wismer Broadcasting, whose owner and founder died in 1999. By the end of 2000, Liggett received all necessary FCC approvals to buy both Hanson Communications and Wismer Broadcasting. All five stations, including WPHM, became a part of Liggett Communications. For about a year WPHM continued to use the old Hanson studio at 2379 Military Street, which is now home to a Coldwell Banker office and Hanson's Pro Music. Wismer's facilities at 808 Huron Avenue were expanded and now house the studios and offices for all five stations. 1380 WPHM, 96.9 WBTI, 107.1 WSAQ, 1590 WHLX, and 1450 WHLS are collectively known as Radio First.

WPHM goes all talk
Not long before WPHM changed hands, it gradually moved from its longtime format of adult contemporary and talk to all news and talk. WPHM was one of the first radio stations to pick up syndicated personality Sean Hannity in early 2002. Hannity started his national broadcast on ABC Radio Networks on September 10, 2001, one day before the September 11 attacks.

Morning personality John Hill retired from the station in August 2002 upon completing 35 years of service.  Hill later died in 2012. Taking his place would be Paul Miller who started his radio career in Port Huron at WPHM before leaving for other markets. Paul Miller was hired as morning show host in late 2002 and continues to serve the station morning show host weekdays 6 to 10am.

Other conservative personalities filled much of the station's schedule during first decade of the 21st century. For a short period WPHM also carried ESPN Radio nights and weekends. Longtime apolitical fixtures of WPHM's programming were psychologist Dr. Joy Browne, personal finance consultant Dave Ramsey, and overnight personality Joey Reynolds. Browne and Reynolds were distributed WOR Radio Network until it folded in 2012, causing WPHM to replace Dr. Joy Browne with Dennis Miller in the afternoons and Joey Reynolds with Coast to Coast AM overnights.

Flip to sports-talk
Starting in January 2015, WPHM started airing NBC Sports Radio from Westwood One on the weekends.  The affiliation was extended to  weekdays later that year. Sports Director Dennis Stuckey was also given his own talk show in January 2015 immediately following the WPHM Morning Show from 10am to noon weekdays.

Stuckey's show was moved to 3 to 5pm in 2016, and then again to 5 to 7pm in 2018. As of June 2021, Stuckey was no longer with Radio First and had started his own local sports website.

Back to news-talk
Longtime news director Bill Gilmer retired in August 2017, after nearly 40 years in broadcasting. As of 2018, Caleb Gordon has assumed both news and pro