# Hospital emergency codes

Hospital emergency codes are coded messages often announced over a public address system of a hospital to alert staff to various classes of on-site emergencies. The use of codes is intended to convey essential information quickly and with minimal misunderstanding to staff while preventing stress and panic among visitors to the hospital. Such codes are sometimes posted on placards throughout the hospital or are printed on employee identification badges for ready reference.

Hospital emergency codes have varied widely by location, even between hospitals in the same community. Confusion over these codes has led to the proposal for and sometimes adoption of standardized codes. In many American, Canadian, New Zealand and Australian hospitals, for example "code blue" indicates a patient has entered cardiac arrest, while "code red" indicates that a fire has broken out somewhere in the hospital facility.

In order for a code call to be useful in activating the response of specific hospital personnel to a given situation, it is usually accompanied by a specific location description (e.g., "Code red, second floor, corridor three, room two-twelve"). Other codes, however, only signal hospital staff generally to prepare for the consequences of some external event such as a natural disaster.

Standardised color codes

Australia
Australian hospitals and other buildings are covered by Australian Standard 4083 (1997)

 Code Black: Personal threat
 Code Blue: medical emergency
 Code Brown: external emergency (disaster, mass casualties etc.)
 Code Orange: evacuation
 Code Purple: bomb threat
 Code Red: fire
 Code Yellow: internal emergency

Canada

Alberta
Codes in Alberta are prescribed by Alberta Health Services.

 Code black: bomb threat/suspicious package
 Code blue: cardiac arrest/medical emergency
 Code brown: chemical spill/hazardous material
 Code green: evacuation
 Code grey: shelter in place/air exclusion
 Code orange: mass casualty incident
 Code purple: hostage situation
 Code red: fire
 Code white: violence/aggression
 Code yellow: missing patient
 Code 66: rapid medical intervention to prevent the patient deteriorating

British Columbia
Codes used in British Columbia, prescribed by the British Columbia Ministry of Health.

 Code amber: missing or abducted infant or child
 Code black: bomb threat
 Code blue: cardiac and/or respiratory arrest
 Code brown: hazardous spill
 Code green: evacuation
 Code grey: system failure
 Code orange: disaster or mass casualties
 Code pink: pediatric emergency and/or obstetrical emergency
 Code red: fire
 Code white: aggression
 Code yellow: missing patient
 Code Silver: Active shooter
 Code 77: stroke 
 Code 99: incoming trauma

Manitoba 
Codes used in Manitoba as defined in WRHA policy,"Codes: Standardized Emergency"; policy# 50.00.010
Code Red: Fire
Code Blue: Cardiopulmonary Arrest
Code Orange: Disaster (external influx of patients)
Code Green: Evacuation
Code Yellow: Missing Patient/Resident
Code Black: Bomb Threat/Search
Code White: Violent Incident
Code Brown: Internal Chemical Spill
Code Grey: External Air Contamination (exclusion)
Code Pink: Abduction (infant, child, dependant adult)

Nova Scotia
The following codes are in use in Nova Scotia.
Code Black: bomb threat
Code Blue: cardio/respiratory arrest, choking, or other life-threatening emergency
Code Brown: hazardous substance spill/release
Code Census: emergency department overcrowding
Code Green precautionary: evacuation (precautionary)
Code Green stat: evacuation (crisis)
Code Grey: external air exclusion/shelter in place
Code Orange: external disaster/reception of mass casualties
Code Pink: pediatric emergency and/or obstetrical emergency
Code Red: fire
Code Silver: person with a weapon
Code White: violent person(s)/situation
Code Yellow: missing patient/client

Ontario
In Ontario, a standard emergency response code set by the Ontario Hospital Association is used, with minor variations for some hospitals.

 Code amber: missing child/child abduction
 Code aqua: flood
 Code black: bomb threat/suspicious object
 Code blue: cardiac arrest/medical emergency – adult
 Code brown: in-facility hazardous spill
 Code green: evacuation (precautionary)
 Code green stat: evacuation (crisis)
 Code grey: infrastructure loss or failure
 Code grey button-down: external air exclusion
 Code orange: disaster
 Code orange CBRN: CBRN (chemical, biological, radiological, and nuclear) disaster
 Code pink: cardiac arrest/medical emergency – infant/child
 Code purple: hostage taking/gang activity
 Code red: fire
 Code silver: gun threat/shooter
 Code white: violent/behavioural situation
 Code yellow: missing person
 Code 33: Obstetrical emergency

Quebec
The following codes are in use in Quebec.
Code black: bomb threat/suspicious object
Code blue: adult cardiac or respiratory arrest, loss of consciousness
Code brown: in-facility hazardous spill
Code green: evacuation
Code orange: external disaster
Code pink: pediatric cardiac or respiratory arrest, loss of consciousness
Code purple: infant/neonatal cardiac or respiratory arrest
Code red: fire
Code white: violent patient
Code yellow: missing or lost patient

Saskatchewan
Codes used in Saskatchewan, prescribed by the Saskatchewan Health Authority.

 Code Red: Fire/Smoke
 Code Orange: Incoming Casualties/Expanded services
 Code Green: Evacuation/Relocation
 Code Black: Bomb Threat/Suspicious Package
 Code Purple: Hostage Taking
 Code White: Aggressive/Hostile/Combative Person
 Code Yellow: Missing Person
 Code Blue: Cardiac/Respiratory Arrest
 Code Brown: Hazardous Material/Chemical Spill
 Code Silver: Active Assailant/Person with a Weapon

Yukon
The following codes are in use in Yukon.
Code Black: bomb threat
Code Blue: cardiac or respiratory arrest 
Code Brown: hazardous material
Code Gold: earthquake (Yukon has the highest seismic activity rate in Canada)
Code Green stage 1: partial evacuation to a safe area within the building
Code Green stage 2: complete evacuation of the building
Code Grey: shelter in place/air exclusion
Code Orange: mass casualty
Code Red: fire
Code White: aggressive behaviour
Lockdown: violent situation/hostage taking
Code Yellow: missing patient

United Kingdom

In the UK, hospitals have standardised codes across individual NHS trusts (England and Wales) and health boards (Scotland), but there are not many standardised codes across the entire NHS. This allows for differences in demands on hospitals in different areas, and also for hospitals of different roles to communicate different alerts according to their needs (e.g., a major trauma centre like St. George's Hospital in South London has different priority alert needs to a rural community hospital like West Berkshire Community Hospital).
Some more standardised codes are as follows:

 Code black: hospital at capacity – no available beds for new admissions from A&E. A code black is declared by the hospital's general bed manager, who then relays this to the local ambulance service and posts updates for local healthcare services such as GPs and district nursing teams.
 Code red: This is the United Kingdom's rapid response code. This call gets specialist doctors and trauma teams to the location for assistance in things like major traumas and deteriorating patients in situations like choking or airway compromise. This call also can be used to activate a major hemorrhage protocol in the event of a massive bleed. This call is referred to as code red, staff assist, trauma protocol or rapid response. This is the only emergency protocol which has a code. The only other is what is announced as a mass casualty protocol not any codes. This is to show a major incident has taken place like a terrorist attack and the protocol is activated to alert specialists and begin special emergency procedures like mass casualty triage and decontamination.
 Major haemorrhage protocol – activated via the code red system. A peri-arrest call is put out, but the transfusion lab is also alerted. A specified number of units of O-negative packed red blood cells, and sometimes fresh frozen plasma and platelets, are immediately sent to the location of the call. The transfusion lab will cross-match any saved blood samples for the patient, or await an urgent cross-match sample to be sent. Once this is done, units matching the patient's blood type will be continually sent until the major haemorrhage protocol is stood down.

Otherwise, non-colour codes are mostly used across the NHS:
 2222 (crash call or peri-arrest call) – dialling 2222 from any internal phone in nearly all NHS hospitals will connect the caller immediately to the switchboard. The caller can then specify the type of cardiac arrest or peri-arrest call (usually adult, paediatric (or neo-natal) or obstetric) and give a location (eg "Adult cardiac arrest, Surgical Admissions Unit, ground floor B block" or "Obstetric peri-arrest, obstetric theatres, 4th floor maternity wing") and the switchboard will bleep the members o