# Potential vorticity

In fluid mechanics, potential vorticity (PV) is a quantity which is proportional to the dot product of vorticity and stratification. This quantity, following a parcel of air or water, can only be changed by diabatic or frictional processes. It is a useful concept for understanding the generation of vorticity in cyclogenesis (the birth and development of a cyclone), especially along the polar front, and in analyzing flow in the ocean.

Potential vorticity (PV) is seen as one of the important theoretical successes of modern meteorology. It is a simplified approach for understanding fluid motions in a rotating system such as the Earth's atmosphere and ocean. Its development traces back to the circulation theorem by Bjerknes in 1898, which is a specialized form of Kelvin's circulation theorem. Starting from Hoskins et al., 1985, PV has been more commonly used in operational weather diagnosis such as tracing dynamics of air parcels and inverting for the full flow field. Even after detailed numerical weather forecasts on finer scales were made possible by increases in computational power, the PV view is still used in academia and routine weather forecasts, shedding light on the synoptic scale features for forecasters and researchers.

Baroclinic instability requires the presence of a potential vorticity gradient along which waves amplify during cyclogenesis.

Bjerknes circulation theorem 
Vilhelm Bjerknes generalized Helmholtz's vorticity equation (1858) and Kelvin's circulation theorem (1869) to inviscid, geostrophic, and baroclinic fluids, i.e., fluids of varying density in a rotational frame which has a constant angular speed. If we define circulation as the integral of the tangent component of velocity around a closed fluid loop and take the integral of a closed chain of fluid parcels, we obtain

 (1)

where  is the time derivative in the rotational frame (not inertial frame),  is the relative circulation,  is projection of the area surrounded by the fluid loop on the equatorial plane,  is density,  is pressure, and  is the frame's angular speed. With Stokes' theorem, the first term on the right-hand-side can be rewritten as

(2)

which states that the rate of the change of the circulation is governed by the variation of density in pressure coordinates and the equatorial projection of its area, corresponding to the first and second terms on the right hand side. The first term is also called the "solenoid term". Under the condition of a barotropic fluid with a constant projection area , the Bjerknes circulation theorem reduces to Kelvin's theorem. However, in the context of atmospheric dynamics, such conditions are not a good approximation: if the fluid circuit moves from the equatorial region to the extratropics,  is not conserved. Furthermore, the complex geometry of the material circuit approach is not ideal for making an argument about fluid motions.

Rossby's shallow water PV 

Carl Rossby proposed in 1939 that, instead of the full three-dimensional vorticity vector, the local vertical component of the absolute vorticity  is the most important component for large-scale atmospheric flow. Also, the large-scale structure of a two-dimensional non-divergent barotropic flow can be modeled by assuming that  is conserved. His later paper in 1940 relaxed this theory from 2D flow to quasi-2D shallow water equations on a beta plane. In this system, the atmosphere is separated into several incompressible layers stacked upon each other, and the vertical velocity can be deduced from integrating the convergence of horizontal flow. For a one-layer shallow water system without external forces or diabatic heating, Rossby showed that

, (3)

where  is the relative vorticity,  is the layer depth, and  is the Coriolis parameter. The conserved quantity in equation (3) is later called the shallow water potential vorticity. For an atmosphere with multiple layers, with each layer having constant potential temperature, the above equation takes the form

 (4)

in which  is the relative vorticity on an isentropic surface—a surface of constant potential temperature, and  is a measure of the weight of unit cross-section of an individual air column inside the layer.

Interpretation 
Equation (3) is the atmospheric equivalent to angular momentum. For example, a spinning ice skater with her arms spread out laterally can accelerate her rate of spin by contracting her arms. Similarly, when a vortex of air is broadened, it in turn spins more slowly. When the air converges horizontally, the air speed increases to maintain potential vorticity, and the vertical extent increases to conserve mass. On the other hand, divergence causes the vortex to spread, slowing down the rate of spin.

Ertel's potential vorticity 
Hans Ertel generalized Rossby's work via an independent paper published in 1942. By identifying a conserved quantity following the motion of an air parcel, it can be proved that a certain quantity called the Ertel potential vorticity is also conserved for an idealized continuous fluid. We look at the momentum equation and the mass continuity equation of an idealized compressible fluid in Cartesian coordinates:

 (5)

 (6)

where  is the geopotential height. Writing the absolute vorticity as ,  as , and then take the curl of the full momentum equation (5), we have

 (7)

Consider  to be a hydrodynamical invariant, that is,  equals to zero following the fluid motion in question. Scalar multiplication of equation (7) by , and note that , we have

 (8)

The second term on the left-hand side of equation (8) is equal to , in which the second term is zero. From the triple vector product formula, we have

 (9)

where the second row is due to the fact that  is conserved following the motion, . Substituting equation (9) into equation (8) above,

 (10)

Combining the first, second, and fourth term in equation (10) can yield . Dividing by  and using a variant form of mass continuity equation,, equation (10) gives

 (11)

If the invariant  is only a function of pressure  and density , then its gradient is perpendicular to the cross product of  and , which means that the right-hand side of equation (11) is equal to zero. Specifically for the atmosphere, potential temperature is chosen as the invariant for frictionless and adiabatic motions. Therefore, the conservation law of Ertel's potential vorticity is given by

 (12)

the potential vorticity is defined as

 (13)

where  is the fluid density,  is the absolute vorticity and  is the gradient of potential temperature. It can be shown through a combination of the first law of thermodynamics and momentum conservation that the potential vorticity can only be changed by diabatic heating (such as latent heat released from condensation) or frictional processes.

If the atmosphere is stably stratified so that the potential temperature  increases monotonically with height,  can be used as a vertical coordinate instead of . In the  coordinate system, "density" is defined as . Then, if we start the derivation from the horizontal momentum equation in isentropic coordinates, Ertel PV takes a much simpler form

 (14)

where  is the local vertical vector of unit length and  is the 3-dimensional gradient operator in isentropic coordinates. It can be seen that this form of potential vorticity is just the continuous form of Rossby's isentropic multi-layer PV in equation (4).

Interpretation 
The Ertel PV conservation theorem, equation (12), states that for a dry atmosphere, if an air parcel conserves its potential temperature, its potential vorticity is also conserved following its full three-dimensional motions. In other words, in adiabatic motion, air parcels conserve Ertel PV on an isentropic surface. Remarkably, this quantity can serve as a Lagrangian tracer that links the wind and temperature fields. Using the Ertel PV conservation theorem has led to various advances in understanding the general circulation. One of them was "tropopause folding" process described in Reed et al., (1950). For the upper-troposphere and stratosphere, air parcels follow adiabatic movements during a synoptic period of time. In the extratropical region, isentropic surfaces in the stratosphere can penetrate into the tropopause, and thus air parcels can move between stratosphere and troposphere, although the strong gradient of PV near the tropopause usually prevents this motion. However, in frontal region near jet streaks, which is a concentrated region within a jet stream where the wind speeds are the strongest, the PV contour can extend substantially downward into the troposphere, which is similar to the isentropic surfaces. Therefore, stratospheric air can be advected, following both constant PV and isentropic surfaces, downwards deep into the troposphere. The use of PV maps was also proved to be accurate in distinguishing air parcels of recent stratospheric origin even under sub-synoptic-scale disturbances. (An illustration can be found in Holton, 2004,