# Mathematical descriptions of the electromagnetic field

There are various mathematical descriptions of the electromagnetic field that are used in the study of electromagnetism, one of the four fundamental interactions of nature. In this article, several approaches are discussed, although the equations are in terms of electric and magnetic fields, potentials, and charges with currents, generally speaking.

Vector field approach

The most common description of the electromagnetic field uses two three-dimensional vector fields called the electric field and the magnetic field. These vector fields each have a value defined at every point of space and time and are thus often regarded as functions of the space and time coordinates. As such, they are often written as  (electric field) and  (magnetic field).

If only the electric field (E) is non-zero, and is constant in time, the field is said to be an electrostatic field.  Similarly, if only the magnetic field (B) is non-zero and is constant in time, the field is said to be a magnetostatic field.  However, if either the electric or magnetic field has a time-dependence, then both fields must be considered together as a coupled electromagnetic field using Maxwell's equations.

Maxwell's equations in the vector field approach

The behaviour of electric and magnetic fields, whether in cases of electrostatics, magnetostatics, or electrodynamics (electromagnetic fields), is governed by Maxwell-Heaviside's equations:

{| class="toccolours collapsible" width="400px" style="background-color:#ECFCF4; padding:6; cellpadding=6;text-align:left;border:2px solid #50C878"
|-
|text-align="center" colspan="2"|Maxwell's equations (vector fields)
|-
|  ||    Gauss's law
|-
|  ||    Gauss's law for magnetism
|-
|  ||    Faraday's law
|-
|  ||    Ampère–Maxwell law
|}

where ρ is the charge density, which can (and often does) depend on time and position, ε0 is the electric constant, μ0 is the magnetic constant, and J is the current per unit area, also a function of time and position.  The equations take this form with the International System of Quantities.

When dealing with only nondispersive isotropic linear materials, Maxwell's equations are often modified to ignore bound charges by replacing the permeability and permittivity of free space with the permeability and permittivity of the linear material in question.  For some materials that have more complex responses to electromagnetic fields, these properties can be represented by tensors, with time-dependence related to the material's ability to respond to rapid field changes (dispersion (optics), Green–Kubo relations), and possibly also field dependencies representing nonlinear and/or nonlocal material responses to large amplitude fields (nonlinear optics).

Potential field approach

Many times in the use and calculation of electric and magnetic fields, the approach used first computes an associated potential: the electric potential, , for the electric field, and the magnetic vector potential, A, for the magnetic field.  The electric potential is a scalar field, while the magnetic potential is a vector field.  This is why sometimes the electric potential is called the scalar potential and the magnetic potential is called the vector potential.  These potentials can be used to find their associated fields as follows:

Maxwell's equations in potential formulation

These relations can be substituted into Maxwell's equations to express the latter in terms of the potentials. Faraday's law and Gauss's law for magnetism (the homogeneous equations) turn out to be identically true for any potentials. This is because of the way the fields are expressed as gradients and curls of the scalar and vector potentials. The homogeneous equations in terms of these potentials involve the divergence of the curl  and the curl of the gradient , which are always zero. The other two of Maxwell's equations (the inhomogeneous equations) are the ones that describe the dynamics in the potential formulation.

These equations taken together are as powerful and complete as Maxwell's equations.  Moreover, the problem has been reduced somewhat, as the electric and magnetic fields together had six components to solve for.  In the potential formulation, there are only four components: the electric potential and the three components of the vector potential.  However, the equations are messier than Maxwell's equations using the electric and magnetic fields.

Gauge freedom

These equations can be simplified by taking advantage of the fact that the electric and magnetic fields are physically meaningful quantities that can be measured; the potentials are not.  There is a freedom to constrain the form of the potentials provided that this does not affect the resultant electric and magnetic fields, called gauge freedom.  Specifically for these equations, for any choice of a twice-differentiable scalar function of position and time λ, if  is a solution for a given system, then so is another potential  given by:

This freedom can be used to simplify the potential formulation.  Either of two such scalar functions is typically chosen: the Coulomb gauge and the Lorenz gauge.

Coulomb gauge

The Coulomb gauge is chosen in such a way that , which corresponds to the case of magnetostatics.  In terms of λ, this means that it must satisfy the equation

This choice of function results in the following formulation of Maxwell's equations:

Several features about Maxwell's equations in the Coulomb gauge are as follows.  Firstly, solving for the electric potential is very easy, as the equation is a version of Poisson's equation.  Secondly, solving for the magnetic vector potential is particularly difficult. This is the big disadvantage of this gauge.  The third thing to note, and something which is not immediately obvious, is that the electric potential changes instantly everywhere in response to a change in conditions in one locality.

For instance, if a charge is moved in New York at 1 pm local time, then a hypothetical observer in Australia who could measure the electric potential directly would measure a change in the potential at 1 pm New York time.  This seemingly violates causality in special relativity, i.e. the impossibility of information, signals, or anything travelling faster than the speed of light.  The resolution to this apparent problem lies in the fact that, as previously stated, no observers can measure the potentials; they measure the electric and magnetic fields.  So, the combination of ∇φ and ∂A/∂t used in determining the electric field restores the speed limit imposed by special relativity for the electric field, making all observable quantities consistent with relativity.

Lorenz gauge condition

A gauge that is often used is the Lorenz gauge condition. In this, the scalar function λ is chosen such that

meaning that λ must satisfy the equation

The Lorenz gauge results in the following form of Maxwell's equations:

The operator  is called the d'Alembertian (some authors denote this by only the square ).  These equations are inhomogeneous versions of the wave equation, with the terms on the right side of the equation serving as the source functions for the wave.  As with any wave equation, these equations lead to two types of solution: advanced potentials (which are related to the configuration of the sources at future points in time), and retarded potentials (which are related to the past configurations of the sources); the former are usually disregarded where the field is to analyzed from a causality perspective.

As pointed out above, the Lorenz gauge is no more valid than any other gauge since the potentials cannot be directly measured, however the Lorenz gauge has the advantage of the equations being Lorentz invariant.

Extension to quantum electrodynamics

Canonical quantization of the electromagnetic fields proceeds by elevating the scalar and vector potentials; φ(x), A(x), from fields to field operators. Substituting  into the previous Lorenz gauge equations gives:

Here, J and ρ are the current and charge density of the matter field. If the matter field is taken so as to describe the interaction of electromagnetic fields with the Dirac electron given by the four-component Dirac spinor field ψ, the current and charge densities have form:

where α are the first three Dirac matrices. Using this, we can re-write Maxwell's equations as:

which is the form used in quantum electrodynamics.

Geometric algebra formulations

Analogous to the tensor formulation, two objects, one for the electromagnetic field and one for the current density, are introduced. In geometric algebra (GA) these are multivectors.

Algebra of physical space

In the Algebra of physical space (APS), also known as the Clifford algebra , the field and current are represented by multivectors.

The field multivector, known as the Riemann–Silberstein vector, is

and the current multivector is

using an orthonormal basis . Similarly, the unit pseudoscalar is , due to the fact tha