# Licensed to Drill

"Licensed to Drill" is an educational episode of the sit-com, Only Fools and Horses. Even though it was shown in various schools throughout the UK from 1984 onwards (mainly in science lessons), it has never broadcast. There was some confusion as to who wrote this episode, as the writing credit at the end is to Brian Hague, and not John Sullivan.  This credit, however, refers to the documentary clip that the Trotters watched on the television during the episode. John Sullivan wrote the script, as well as writing and singing the theme song, "Licensed to Drill". This episode was Lennard Pearce's final appearance as Grandad as he died not long afterwards.

The episode finally aired as part of The Story of Only Fools and Horses in 2017.

Synopsis
As Rodney and Grandad watch a war movie, Del Boy who had earlier returned   from the cafe with a magazine about oil and is now reading it while lying on the couch, begins educating his younger brother and grandfather, explaining all the products which would not exist without oil. He then insists that they watch a short film being shown on TV about the Maureen off shore oil rig. When the film is over, Del goes to bed after insisting that Rodney read the magazine in time for an important business meeting which will occur the next day.

When Rodney wakes up the following morning, he finds a strange man in the flat, and it emerges that Del has just concluded a deal with him. He explains that he has bought an oil rig for £400, intending for them to drill for oil themselves. However, Rodney points out to a seemingly unaware Del that offshore oil rigs are located hundreds of miles offshore (not hundreds of yards as Del appeared to presume), and Del suddenly realises that he has been conned.

Del attempts to give chase to the mysterious man he called "Paddy" who has, in Rodney's words "done you up like a kipper" but is prevented from doing so when Rodney informs him that the van is out of petrol. On this ironic note Del, jaw agape, stares into the camera before attempting to throttle his younger brother as the credits begin to roll. We briefly see the "Paddy" character smoking a cigar and laughing triumphantly in his car outside the flat before he drives off.

Episode cast

References

1984 British television episodes
Only Fools and Horses special episodes
Educational television episodes