# Born coordinates

In relativistic physics, the Born coordinate chart is a coordinate chart for (part of) Minkowski spacetime, the flat spacetime of special relativity.  It is often used to analyze the physical experience of observers who ride on a ring or disk rigidly rotating at relativistic speeds, so called Langevin observers.  This chart is often attributed to Max Born, due to his 1909 work on the relativistic physics of a rotating body. For overview of the application of accelerations in flat spacetime, see Acceleration (special relativity) and proper reference frame (flat spacetime).

From experience by inertial scenarios (i.e. measurements in inertial frames), Langevin observers synchronize their clocks by standard Einstein convention or by slow clock synchronization, respectively (both internal synchronizations). For a certain Langevin observer this method works perfectly. Within its immediate vicinity clocks are synchronized and light propagates isotropic in space. But the experience when the observers try to synchronize their clocks along a closed path in space is puzzling: there are always at least two neighboring clocks which have different times. To remedy the situation, the observers agree on an external synchronization procedure (coordinate time t — or for ring-riding observers, a proper coordinate time for a fixed radius r). By this agreement, Langevin observers riding on a rigidly rotating disk will conclude from measurements of small distances between themselves that the geometry of the disk is non-Euclidean.  Regardless of which method they use, they will conclude that the geometry is well approximated by a certain Riemannian metric, namely the Langevin–Landau–Lifschitz metric.  This is in turn very well approximated by the geometry of the hyperbolic plane (with the negative curvatures –3 ω2 and –3 ω2 r2, respectively).  But if these observers measure larger distances, they will obtain different results, depending upon which method of measurement they use!  In all such cases, however, they will most likely obtain results which are inconsistent with any Riemannian metric. In particular, if they use the simplest notion of distance, radar distance, owing to various effects such as the asymmetry already noted, they will conclude that the "geometry" of the disk is not only non-Euclidean, it is non-Riemannian.

The rotating disk is not a paradox. Whatever method the observers use to analyze the situation: at the end they find themselves analyzing a rotating disk and not an inertial frame.

Langevin observers in the cylindrical chart

To motivate the Born chart, we first consider the family of Langevin observers represented in an ordinary cylindrical coordinate chart for Minkowski spacetime.  The world lines of these observers form a timelike congruence which is rigid in the sense of having a vanishing expansion tensor.  They represent observers who rotate rigidly around an axis of cylindrical symmetry.

From the line element

we can immediately read off a frame field representing the local Lorentz frames of stationary (inertial) observers

Here,  is a timelike unit vector field while the others are spacelike unit vector fields; at each event, all four are mutually orthogonal and determine the infinitesimal Lorentz frame of the static observer whose world line passes through that event.

Simultaneously boosting these frame fields in the  direction, we obtain the desired frame field describing the physical experience of the Langevin observers, namely

This frame was apparently first introduced (implicitly) by Paul Langevin in 1935; its first explicit use appears to have been by T. A. Weber, as recently as 1997!  It is defined on the region 0 < R < 1/ω; this limitation is fundamental, since near the outer boundary, the velocity of the Langevin observers approaches the speed of light.

Each integral curve of the timelike unit vector field  appears in the cylindrical chart as a helix with constant radius (such as the red curve in Fig. 1).  Suppose we choose one Langevin observer and consider the other observers who ride on a ring of radius R which is rigidly rotating with angular velocity ω.  Then if we take an integral curve (blue helical curve in Fig. 1) of the spacelike basis vector , we obtain a curve which we might hope can be interpreted as a "line of simultaneity" for the ring-riding observers.  But as we see from Fig. 1, ideal clocks carried by these ring-riding observers cannot be synchronized.  This is our first hint that it is not as easy as one might expect to define a satisfactory notion of spatial geometry even for a rotating ring, much less a rotating disk!

Computing the kinematic decomposition of the Langevin congruence, we find that the acceleration vector is

This points radially inward and it depends only on the (constant) radius of each helical world line.  The expansion tensor vanishes identically, which means that nearby Langevin observers maintain constant distance from each other.  The vorticity vector is

which is parallel to the axis of symmetry.  This means that the world lines of the nearest neighbors of each Langevin observer are twisting about its own world line, as suggested by Fig. 2.  This is a kind of local notion of "swirling" or vorticity.

In contrast, note that projecting the helices onto any one of the spatial hyperslices  orthogonal to the world lines of the static observers gives a circle, which is of course a closed curve.  Even better, the coordinate basis vector  is a spacelike Killing vector field whose integral curves are closed spacelike curves (circles, in fact), which moreover degenerate to zero length closed curves on the axis R = 0.  This expresses the fact that our spacetime exhibits cylindrical symmetry, and also exhibits a kind of global notion of the rotation of our Langevin observers.

In Fig. 2, the magenta curve shows how the spatial vectors  are spinning about  (which is suppressed in the figure since the Z coordinate is inessential).  That is, the vectors  are not Fermi–Walker transported along the world line, so the Langevin frame is spinning as well as non-inertial.  In other words, in our straightforward derivation of the Langevin frame, we kept the frame aligned with the radial coordinate basis vector .  By introducing a constant rate rotation of the frame carried by each Langevin observer about , we could, if we wished "despin" our frame to obtain a gyrostabilized version.

Transforming to the Born chart

To obtain the Born chart, we straighten out the helical world lines of the Langevin observers using the simple coordinate transformation

The new line element is

Notice the "cross-terms" involving , which show that the Born chart is not an orthogonal coordinate chart.  The Born coordinates are also sometimes referred to as rotating cylindrical coordinates.

In the new chart, the world lines of the Langevin observers appear as vertical straight lines.  Indeed, we can easily transform the four vector fields making up the Langevin frame into the new chart.  We obtain

These are exactly the same vector fields as before – they are now simply represented in a different coordinate chart!

Needless to say, in the process of "unwinding" the world lines of the Langevin observers, which appear as helices in the cylindrical chart, we "wound up" the world lines of the static observers, which now appear as helices in the Born chart!  Note too that, like the Langevin frame, the Born chart is only defined on the region 0 < r < 1/ω.

If we recompute the kinematic decomposition of the Langevin observers, that is of the timelike congruence , we will of course obtain the same answer that we did before, only expressed in terms of the new chart.  Specifically, the acceleration vector is

the expansion tensor vanishes, and the vorticity vector is

The dual covector field of the timelike unit vector field in any frame field represents infinitesimal spatial hyperslices.  However, the Frobenius integrability theorem gives a strong restriction on whether or not these spatial hyperplane elements can be "knit together" to form a family of spatial hypersurfaces which are everywhere orthogonal to the world lines of the congruence.  Indeed, it turns out that this is possible, in which case we say the congruence is hypersurface orthogonal, if and only if the vorticity vector vanishes identically.  Thus, while the static observers in the cylindrical chart admits a unique family of orthogonal hyperslices , the Langevin observers admit no such hyperslices.  In particular, the spatial surfaces  in the Born chart are orthogonal to the static observers, not to the Langevin observers.  This is our second (and much more pointed) indication that defining "the spatial geometry of a rotating disk" is not as simple as one might expect.

To better understand this crucial point, consider integral curves of the third Langevin frame vector

which pass through the radius .  (For convenience, we will suppress the inessent