# Factor 8: The Arkansas Prison Blood Scandal

Factor 8: The Arkansas Prison Blood Scandal is a feature-length documentary by Arkansas filmmaker and investigative journalist Kelly Duda. Through interviews and presentation of documents and footage, Duda alleges that in the 1970s and 1980s, the Arkansas prison system profited from selling blood plasma from inmates infected with viral hepatitis and HIV. The documentary contends that thousands of victims who received transfusions of blood products derived from these plasma products, Factor VIII, died as a result.

Summary 
Factor 8 examines a prison blood-harvesting scheme run by prisoners for profit. The blood was sold by blood companies for millions of dollars. The harvested plasma was then shipped around the world, where it infected haemophilia patients.

Release 
Factor 8: The Arkansas Prison Blood Scandal was screened at Slamdance 2005 and at the American Film Institute′s Los Angeles Film Festival in November 2005. It won a special mention award at AFI and received a commendable review from critic John Anderson in the industry newspaper Variety.

A screening of the film was held in Soho, London on May 5, 2006. On May 9, 2006, AIDS victims demonstrated against former US president Bill Clinton, who had been Governor of Arkansas when the blood factor sales had taken place, during his visit to Glasgow. The British premiere of Factor 8 was held on September 29, 2006, as part of the 14th Raindance Film Festival in Piccadilly Circus, London.

Reception and impact
After Cummins prisoner Rolf Kaestel gave testimony in Duda’s documentary, state corrections officials relocated him to Utah, where he’s been incarcerated ever since. Duda alleged to The Daily Beast that this was in retribution for his comments, calling Kaestel a, "political prisoner."

On November 3, 2005, Carolyn Leckie, Member of Scottish Parliament (MSP), submitted a motion recognizing the need for a wide audience for Factor 8: The Arkansas Prison Blood Scandal, which 22 MSPs signed. The motion also called for a full independent public inquiry into what led to the infections and what the response should be. In May 2007, they announced an impending inquiry into tainted blood.

On July 11, 2007, Duda testified at the Lord Archer Inquiry on Contaminated Blood in Westminster, United Kingdom. Duda spoke on the United States' (and Arkansas's) role in the events. On July 11. 2017, Prime Minister Theresa May ordered anonther inquiry in the UK into how contaminated blood in the 1970s and 1980s resulted in the deaths of at least 2,400 people and infected thousands more.

See also
 Bad Blood: A Cautionary Tale
 Contaminated haemophilia blood products
 Royal Commission of Inquiry on the Blood System in Canada
 Tainted blood scandal (United Kingdom)

References

External links 
 

American documentary films
Documentary films about HIV/AIDS
Documentary films about incarceration in the United States
Works about contaminated haemophilia blood products
HIV/AIDS in American films
2005 films
2000s American films