# CLEO (particle detector)

CLEO was a general purpose particle detector at the Cornell Electron Storage Ring (CESR), and the name of the collaboration of physicists who operated the detector. The name CLEO is not an acronym; it is short for Cleopatra and was chosen to go with CESR (pronounced Caesar). CESR was a particle accelerator designed to collide electrons and positrons at a center-of-mass energy of approximately 10 GeV. The energy of the accelerator was chosen before the first three bottom quark Upsilon resonances were discovered between 9.4 GeV and 10.4 GeV in 1977. The fourth Υ resonance, the Υ(4S), was slightly above the threshold for, and therefore ideal for the study of, B meson production.

CLEO was a hermetic detector that in all of its versions consisted of a tracking system inside a solenoid magnet, a calorimeter, particle identification systems, and a muon detector. The detector underwent five major upgrades over the course of its thirty-year lifetime, both to upgrade the capabilities of the detector and to optimize it for the study of B mesons. The CLEO I detector began collecting data in October 1979, and CLEO-c finished collecting data on March 3, 2008.

CLEO initially measured the properties of the Υ(1–3S) resonances below the threshold for producing B mesons. Increasing amounts of accelerator time were spent at the Υ(4S) as the collaboration became more interested in the study of B mesons.
Once the CUSB experiment was discontinued in the late 1980s, CLEO then spent most of its time at the Υ(4S) and measured many important properties of the B mesons.
While CLEO was studying the B mesons, it was also able to measure the properties of D mesons and tau leptons, and discover many new charm hadrons. When the BaBar and Belle B factories began to collect large amounts of data in the early 2000s, CLEO was no longer able to make competitive measurements of B mesons. CLEO revisited the Υ(1-3S) resonances, then underwent its last upgrade to CLEO-c. CESR ran at lower energies and CLEO measured many properties of the ψ resonances and D mesons. CLEO was the longest running experiment in the history of particle physics.

History

Proposal and construction 
Cornell University had built a series of synchrotrons since the 1940s. The 10 GeV synchrotron in operation during the 1970s had conducted a number of experiments, but it ran at much lower energy than the 20 GeV linear accelerator at SLAC. As late as October 1974, Cornell planned to upgrade the synchrotron to reach energies of 25 GeV and build a new synchrotron to reach 40 GeV. After the discovery of the J/Ψ in November 1974 demonstrated that interesting physics could be done with an electron-positron collider, Cornell submitted a proposal in 1975 for an electron-positron collider operating up to center-of-mass energies of 16 GeV using the existing synchrotron tunnel. An accelerator at 16 GeV would explore the energy region between that of the SPEAR accelerator and the PEP and PETRA accelerators. CESR and CLEO were approved in 1977 and mostly finished by 1979. CLEO was built in the large experimental hall at the south end of CESR; a smaller detector named CUSB (for Columbia University-Stony Brook) was built at the north interaction region. Between the proposal for and construction of CESR and CLEO, Fermilab discovered the Υ resonances and suggested that as many as three states existed. The Υ(1S) and Υ(2S) were confirmed at the DORIS accelerator. The first order of business once CESR was running was to find the Υs. CLEO and CUSB found the Υ(1S) shortly after beginning to collect data, and used the mass difference from DORIS to quickly find the Υ(2S). CESR's higher beam energies allowed CLEO and CUSB to find the more massive Υ(3S) and discover the Υ(4S). Furthermore, the presence of an excess of electrons and muons at the Υ(4S) indicated that it decayed to B mesons. CLEO proceeded to publish over sixty papers using the original CLEO I configuration of the detector.

CLEO had competition in the measurement of B mesons, particularly from the ARGUS collaboration. The CLEO collaboration was worried that the ARGUS detector at DESY would be better than CLEO, therefore it began to plan for an upgrade. The improved detector would use a new drift chamber for tracking and dE/dx measurements, a cesium iodide calorimeter inside a new solenoid magnet, time of flight counters, and new muon detectors. The new drift chamber (DR2) had the same outer radius as the original drift chamber to allow it to be installed before the other components were ready.

CLEO collected data for two years in the CLEO I.V configuration: new drift chamber, ten layer vertex detector (VD) inside the drift chamber, three layer straw tube drift chamber insert (IV) inside the VD, and a prototype CsI calorimeter replacing one of the original pole-tip shower detectors. The highlight of the CLEO I.V era was the observation of semi-leptonic B decays to charmless final states, submitted less than three weeks before a similar observation from ARGUS. The shutdown for the installation of DR2 allowed ARGUS to beat CLEO to the observation of B mixing, which was the most cited measurement of any of the symmetric B experiments.

CLEO II 
CLEO shut down in April 1988 to begin the remainder of the CLEO II installation, and finished the upgrade in August 1989. A six layer straw chamber precision tracker (PT) replaced the IV, and the time-of-flight detectors, CsI calorimeter, solenoid magnet and iron, and muon chambers were all installed. This would be the CLEO II configuration of the detector. During the CLEO II era, the collaboration observed the flavor changing neutral current decays B+,0→ K*+,0 γ and b → s γ. Decays of B mesons to two charmless mesons were also discovered during CLEO II. These decays were of interest because of the possibilility to observe CP violation in decays such as K±π0, although such a measurement would require large amounts of data.

Observation of time-dependent asymmetries in the production of certain flavor-symmetric final states (such as J/Ψ K) was an easier way to detect CP violation in B mesons, both theoretically and experimentally. An asymmetric accelerator, one in which the electrons and positrons had different energies, was necessary to measure the time difference between B0 and 0 decays. CESR and CLEO submitted a proposal to build a low energy ring in the existing tunnel and upgrade the CLEO II detector with NSF funding. SLAC also submitted a proposal to build a B factory with DOE funds. The initial designs were first reviewed in 1991, but DOE and NSF agreed that insufficient funds were available to build either facility and a decision on which one to build was postponed. The proposals were reconsidered in 1993, this time with both facilities competing for DOE money. In October 1993, it was announced that the B factory would be built at SLAC.

After losing the competition for the B factory, CESR and CLEO proceeded with a two-part plan to upgrade the accelerator and the detector. The first phase was the upgrade to the CLEO II.V configuration between May and October 1995, which included a silicon detector to replace the PT and a change of the gas mixture in the drift chamber from an argon-ethane mix to a helium-propane mix. The silicon detector provided excellent vertex resolution, allowing precise measurements of D0, D+, Ds and τ lifetimes and D mixing. The drift chamber had better efficiency and momentum resolution.

CLEO III 
The second phase of the upgrade included new superconducting quadrupoles near the detector. The VD and DR2 detectors would need to be replaced to make room for the quadrupole magnets. A new silicon detector and particle identification chamber would also be included in the CLEO-III configuration.

The CLEO III upgrade replaced the drift chamber and silicon detector and added a ring-imaging Cherenkov (RICH) detector for enhanced particle identification. The CLEO III drift chamber (DR3) achieved the same momentum resolution as the CLEO II.V drift chamber, despite having a shorter lever arm to accommodate the RICH detector. The mass of the CLEO III endplates was also reduced to allow better resolution in the endcap calorimeters.

CLEO II.V had stopped collecting data in February 1999. The RICH detector was installed beginning in June 1999, and DR3 was installed immediately afterwards. The silicon detector was to be installed next, but it was still being built. An engineering run was taken until the silicon detector was ready for installation in February 2000. CLEO III collected 6 fb−1 of data at the Υ(4S) and another 2 fb−1 below the Υ(4S).

With the advent of the high luminosity BaBar and Belle experiments, CLEO could no longer make competitive measurements of most of the properties of the B mesons. CLEO decided to study the various bottom and charm quarkonia states and charm mesons. The program began by revisiting the Υ states below the B meson threshold and the last data collected with the CLEO-III