# List of Static Shock characters

This is a list of characters appearing in the TV series Static Shock.

Main characters

Virgil Hawkins
Virgil Ovid Hawkins, also known as Static (voiced by Phil LaMarr), is an African-American high school student from Dakota City who, as a result of being accidentally exposed to an experimental mutagen in an event called the "Big Bang", gained the ability to control and manipulate electromagnetism. After discovering others like himself, nicknamed "Bang Babies", using their powers for criminal pursuits, Virgil becomes a hero to stop them. Virgil is an intelligent young man with a strong sense of justice, but grapples with self-doubt. Over the course of the series, he gradually becomes more mature and responsible with his powers.

Richie Foley
Richard "Richie" Osgood Foley (voiced by Jason Marsden) is Virgil Hawkins' best friend who supports the latter as Static by developing gadgets for him during the first and second seasons. In the latter season episode "Power Play", Richie encounters Ragtag, who grants him the power to repel or deflect objects via purple energy. Taking the name "Push", he becomes addicted and begins stealing for Ragtag in exchange for him maintaining his powers, but eventually sees the error of his ways and helps Virgil defeat Ragtag. In the third season, due to prolonged exposure to Virgil, Richie becomes a Bang Baby with superhuman intelligence and limited technopathy. Using his newfound powers, he builds advanced technology, such as the robot "Back-Pack", and joins Virgil in fighting crime as the superhero Gear.

According to series creators, Richie is based on Rick Stone, Virgil's best friend in the comics, who is gay. Since his sexual orientation could not be explored within the context of a children's television series at the time of the show's original run, it was never addressed if Richie was gay as well, though series creator Dwayne McDuffie did consider him gay and subtly hinted at such throughout the series. Additionally, elements of Richie were incorporated into Rick, beginning in 2023 with the Milestone 30th Anniversary Special.

Robert Hawkins
Robert Hawkins (voiced by Kevin Michael Richardson) is a strict yet caring widowed social worker and head counselor of the Freeman Community Center who served in the Marines and strongly dislikes gangs and the destructive attitudes of most Bang Babies, which motivates him to counteract bad influences on young people. Throughout most of the series, he is unaware of Virgil's actions as Static until he is kidnapped by Puff and Onyx on Omnara's behalf and deduces his secret identity near the end of the series, though he agrees to keep it secret.

Sharon Hawkins
Sharon Hawkins (voiced by Michele Morgan) is Virgil's strong-willed and caring older sister who attends college, but still lives at home, and remains unaware of Virgil's activities as Static throughout the series. Additionally, she volunteers at a hospital and works as counselor at the Freeman Community Center. Despite frequently arguing with Virgil, she still cares for him.

Recurring characters

Edwin Alva
Edwin Alva (voiced by Kerrigan Mahan) is a businessman and head of Alva Industries who neglects and holds contempt for his son, Edwin Alva Jr., which would lead to the latter becoming a supervillain and being turned to stone while seeking his attention. In response, a guilt-ridden Alva Sr. focuses his efforts on saving his son, which he eventually succeeds in with Static, Gear, and Hot-Streak's help.

Series creator Dwayne McDuffie has said that the character was supposed to have been "more Peter O'Toole than Peter Fonda".

Frieda Goren
Frieda Goren (voiced by Danica McKellar) is a friend of Virgil's and his initial crush. Though lively and popular at Dakota Union High School, being an active participant and the driving force behind the school's newspaper, she tends to be short-tempered and impulsive, earning her the nickname "Hurricane Frieda".

Francis Stone

Francis "F-Stop" Stone (voiced by Danny Cooksey) is a hot-headed and wisecracking bully at Dakota Union High School who was the leader of one of the gangs that took part in the gang war that would later erupt into the "Big Bang", during which he acquired pyrokinetic powers. Taking the name "Hot-Streak", he serves as Static's first rival and maintains this rivalry with him throughout the series due in part to their prior history before the Big Bang.

After Dr. Todd creates and disperses a Bang Baby cure in the series finale, Stone takes part in Ebon's plot to steal a canister of the mutagen used in the original Big Bang and stage a larger one to restore their powers along with those of their allies. After Static and Gear foil their plot, Ebon and Stone fight over the mutagen canister, but become exposed to a large quantity of the gas and fuse together into a giant monster with both of their powers called "Ebon-Streak". Static and Gear eventually defeat them, though their fates following this are left unknown.

The Meta-Breed
The Meta-Breed is a criminal group of Bang Babies.

Ebon
Ivan Evans, also known as Ebon (voiced by Gary Anthony Sturgis), is a Bang Baby criminal, leader of the Meta-Breed, and older brother of Rubberband Man who resembles an anthropomorphic shadow and possesses powerful umbrakinetic abilities that allow him to create portals to teleport himself or others and control and manipulate darkness and other shadows, though he is vulnerable to strong sources of light. Throughout the series, he attempts to recruit new and powerful Bang Babies into the Meta-Breed, only to continually face opposition from Static, among others.

After Dr. Todd creates and disperses a Bang Baby cure, Ebon launches a plot to steal a canister of the mutagen used in the original Big Bang and stage a larger one to restore his and other like-minded Bang Babies' powers, despite the risk of creating hundreds more. After Static and Gear foil their plot, Ebon and Hot-Streak fight over the mutagen canister, but become exposed to a large quantity of the gas that fuses them together into a giant monster with both of their powers called "Ebon-Streak". Static and Gear eventually defeat them, though their fates following this are left unknown.

A series original character, Ebon was later incorporated into the comics, beginning with 2021's Milestone Comics relaunch, Static: Season One.

Shiv

Shiv (voiced by Brian Tochi) is an eccentric and immature member of the Meta-Breed with the ability to form "light energy" constructs from his arms, which he can form into blades and other weapons.

A series original character, Shiv was later incorporated into the comics starting with 2021's Milestone Comics relaunch, Static: Season One.

Talon
Teresa, also known as Talon (voiced by Tia Texada), is a teenage Hispanic member of the Meta-Breed who resembles an anthropomorphic bird and possesses wings and a hypersonic shriek. Embittered over her transformation, she aids Ebon and the Meta-Breed throughout the series until Dr. Todd creates and disperses a Bang Baby cure in the series finale. Subsequently, she quits the Meta-Breed and tells Static and Gear about Ebon's plot to stage a new Big Bang to restore his powers. Ebon kidnaps her to restore her powers as well, but Static and Gear rescue her while foiling Ebon's plot.

A series original character, Talon was later incorporated into the comics starting with 2021's Milestone Comics relaunch, Static: Season One.

Rubberband Man
Adam Evans, also known as Rubberband Man (voiced by Kadeem Hardison), is a dyslexic yet talented musician, younger brother of Ebon, and a Bang Baby whose body structure consists of living rubber, which he can shape into a variety of forms and use to disguise himself as others. Prior to becoming a Bang Baby, Rubberband Man worked as a stock clerk at a music store before he joined Ebon's gang in taking part in the gang war that would later erupt into the Big Bang. In the first season, Rubberband Man seeks revenge on a record producer who stole one of his songs. Despite being defeated by Static and arrested by authorities, Rubberband Man breaks out of prison and disguises himself as a musician named "Stringer". After entering a relationship with Sharon Hawkins, he becomes inspired to reform and become a superhero in the second season. He initially clashes with Static, but eventually serves as an older brother figure to him.

Daisy Watkins
Daisy Watkins (voiced by Crystal Scales) is a student of the Vanmoor Institute, through which she meets Virgil, before transferring to Dakota Union High School.

Puff
Puff (voiced by Kimberly Brooks) is a volatile and hot-tempered Bang Baby bounty hunter and partner of Onyx with the ability to transform into a gaseous form, which grants flight capabilities and semi-intangibility, but renders her vulnerable to water and powerful gusts of wind. Additionally, she can exhale different forms of vapor such as acidic gas, knockout gas, and flammable gas depending on her mood.

Onyx
Onyx