# Magnanimity

Magnanimity (from Latin , from  "big" +  "soul, spirit") is the virtue of being great of mind and heart. It encompasses, usually, a refusal to be petty, a willingness to face danger, and actions for noble purposes. Its antithesis is pusillanimity (Latin: ). Although the word magnanimity has a traditional connection to Aristotelian philosophy, it also has its own tradition in English which now causes some confusion.

Aristotle
The Latin word  is a calque of the Greek word  (), which means "greatness of soul". Aristotle associates megalopsychia more with a sense of pride and self-worth rather than the modern sense of magnanimity. He writes, "Now a person is thought to be great-souled if he claims much and deserves much" (). Aristotle continues:

W.D. Ross translates Aristotle's statement  as the following: "Pride [megalopsychia], then, seems to be a sort of crown of the virtues; for it makes them greater, and it is not found without them."

Other uses
Noah Webster defined Magnanimity in this way:

Thomas Aquinas adopted Aristotle's concept while adding the Christian virtues of humility and charity.

Edmund Spenser, in The Faerie Queene, had each knight allegorically represent a virtue. Prince Arthur represented "magnificence", which is generally taken to mean Aristotelian magnificence. The uncompleted work does not include Prince Arthur's book, and the significance is not clear.

Democritus states that "It is magnanimity to bear untowardness calmly".

Thomas Hobbes defines magnanimity as "contempt of little helps and hindrances" to one's ends. To Hobbes, contempt stands for an immobility of the heart, which is moved by other things and desires instead.

As an adjective, the concept is expressed as "magnanimous", e.g. "He is a magnanimous man." An example of referring to one as magnanimous can be seen in Hrólfs saga kraka where King Hrólfr Kraki changes the name of a court servant from Hott to Hjalti for his new-found strength and courage, after which Hjalti refuses to taunt or kill those who previously mocked him. Because of his noble actions, the king then bestows the title Magnanimous upon Hjalti.

One form of magnanimity is the generosity of the victor to the defeated. For example, magnanimity has been codified between societies by the Geneva Conventions.

Magnanimous relief efforts can serve to offset the collateral damage of war.

C. S. Lewis, in his book The Abolition of Man, refers to the chest of man as the seat of magnanimity, or sentiment, with this magnanimity working as the liaison between visceral and cerebral man. Lewis asserts that, in his time, the denial of the emotions that are found in the eternal and sublime—that which is humbling as an objective reality—had led to "men without chests".

References

External links

Philosophy of Aristotle
Rhetoric
Virtue