# Noticias Univision

; ) is the news division of Univision, an American Spanish-language free-to-air television network owned by the Univision Television Group division of TelevisaUnivision. The news division is based out of the network's facilities, referred to as the "NewsPort", in the Miami suburb of Doral, Florida, which it shares with sister English language news channel Fusion and Univision's flagship owned-and-operated station WLTV-DT.

The division's flagship program is Noticiero Univision, consisted of two nightly evening newscasts (airing in the early and late evening) focusing on international news and stories of relevance to the network's main target demographic of Latino Americans. Other programs produced by the news division include morning news-talk show ¡Despierta América!, newsmagazine series Primer Impacto and Aquí y Ahora, and Sunday morning political affairs program Al Punto con Jorge Ramos.

Noticias Univision maintains bureaus located at many of the network's television stations across the United States (particularly those owned by parent subsidiary Univision Television Group, that serve as owned-and-operated stations of the network) and throughout Latin America. Noticiero Univision also has news share agreements with many of the national terrestrial networks in those same nations and will often carry their footage and reporting with credit. Noticias Univision uses content from Mexico-based broadcaster (and Univision's major content partner) Televisa, Venezuela-based Venevision, Colombia-based RCN TV, Peru-based América Televisión, and regional-wide CNN en Español.

The division's tagline is "Para estar al tanto del acontecer mundial, los hispanos sintonizan Noticias Univision." (English: "To stay on top of what's happening around the world, Hispanics tune into Univision News.")

Overview
The national newscasts began on KMEX-DT in June 1, 1981 when the network was known as the Spanish International Network, and before the network's name change in 1987 was known as Noticiero Nacional SIN. In 1987, Televisa owner Emilio Azcárraga Milmo, who also oversaw SIN (then a subsidiary of the Mexico City-based company), appointed former Televisa news anchor Jacobo Zabludovsky as director of SIN's news division; the move met with protest among staff at the news division, concerned over the extent of the autonomy of SIN's news department and potential censorship in its journalistic practices (specifically, the reporting on the Fidel Castro regime in Cuba, which while recognized in Mexico, did not have aspects that led to the migration of Cubans to the United States), with most news staffers opting to quit.

After Azcárraga and Emilio Nicolas, Sr. subsequently sold their interests in SIN parent Spanish International Communications to Hallmark Cards after the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) and the U.S. Justice Department asked them to sell the network to a U.S.-based company amid inquiries as to whether Nicolas was being used by the Azcárraga family to skirt the FCC's rules prohibiting foreign ownership of broadcast media, in 1987, the newly renamed Univision appointed Roberto FE Soto – a former producer at NBC News – to produce a revamped flagship evening newscast, Noticiero Univision, the latter becoming the network's youngest executive; the network also reassigned Jorge Ramos – then the host of the network's first attempt at a morning program, the two-hour-long Mundo Latino – and hired veteran journalist Maria Elena Salinas (the latter of whom replaced Teresa Rodriguez as anchor) to co-anchor the evolving network newscast.

Univision eventually decided to expand its news programming to afternoons; in 1992, the network debuted Noticias y Más ("News and More"), anchored by Jackie Nespral, Ambrosio Hernandez and Raúl Peimbert; Myrka Dellanos joined the program after Nespral's departure later that year. Hernandez and Peimbert left Univision in 1993 to join Telemundo, while Nespral became co-host of the weekend edition of NBC's Today. Univision had other plans for the moribund show: the network revamped its format, changed its name and its theme music, and hired Puerto Rican-born María Celeste Arrarás as a weekend reporter to serve as Dellanos' partner; the retooled newsmagazine series became Primer Impacto ("First Impact") in February 1994.

Then on April 14, 1997, Univision replaced reruns of Televisa-produced children's programs (such as Plaza Sesamo {the Latin American version of Sesame Street}) and re-entered into the morning news arena for the first time in eight years with the premiere of ¡Despierta América! ("Wake Up America!"). Maintaining a format similar to its English language counterparts, it was designed to compete with (and was loosely based on the format of) Today, ABC's Good Morning America and CBS This Morning, with a focus on the network's Hispanic and Latino target demographic. The program quickly grew into a major competitor, increasing Univision's viewership in its morning time period by more than 46% by April 1998, and developed a unique style in its reporting of various types of news stories (including health, lifestyle, fashion, beauty and entertainment news, the latter of which was featured as part of a segment called "échate pa' acá" ("Come here") with a focus on popular Latino actors and musicians).

In 1998, Univision premiered a prime time investigative news magazine Aquí y Ahora ("Here & Now"), which focuses on in-depth investigative pieces and interviews with newsmakers. From 2000 to 2010, Univision was the only major U.S. broadcast network to increase its news viewership, while its English-language counterparts on ABC, NBC and CBS each lost half of their total viewership. By the early 2000s, as the network expanded its national reach through the signing of new over-the-air affiliates, Univision's news programs had grown to regularly outrank its Spanish-language competitors, with the early-evening edition of Noticiero Univision often placing ahead of its English language rivals (NBC Nightly News, ABC World News Tonight and the CBS Evening News) among viewers in the 18-49 age demographic. On September 9, 2007, the network premiered the first Sunday morning talk show on Spanish-language American television, Al Punto ("On Point"), a program moderated by Jorge Ramos that features discussions on political and socioeconomic issues pertinent to Latino Americans.

On December 9, 2010, Univision announced that it had hired Isaac Lee as the president of its news division; His duties were expanded upon on October 4, 2013, when he was named chief executive officer of its new cable news channel Fusion, and further in February 2015, when he became president of Univision's digital media operations through a reorganization of that division.

In March 2011, the network hosted its first Presidential town hall meeting; the televised special – which was watched by more than 2.7 million viewers, and featured anchor Jorge Ramos and President Barack Obama – focused on the future of education in the United States. Noticias Univision would later produce two town hall debates between presidential incumbent Obama and Republican challenger Mitt Romney the following year in the run-up to the 2012 Presidential elections.

Also in 2011, Noticias Univision formed two new departments within the news division: an investigative reporting unit, which was led by Pulitzer Prize winner Gerardo Reyes, and a documentary unit, which produced several critically acclaimed films on issues affecting the Latin American and international communities. The division's expanded commitment to investigative journalism helped Noticias Univision earn multiple journalism awards since 2012 including Peabody and Investigative Reporters and Editors Awards for its investigative piece on Operation Fast and Furious, two Gracie Awards, a Cronkite Award for Excellence in Political Journalism and fourteen other award wins for five documentaries produced by both units. In addition, the Academy of Television Arts and Sciences honored Jorge Ramos and Maria Elena Salinas with Lifetime Achievement Awards at the 33rd News & Documentary Emmy Awards in 2012.

In March 2013, Noticias Univision and Participant Media announced a partnership to co-produce ten, one-hour documentaries to air on Pivot Channel in English and on Univision in Spanish. Three months later, in June of that year, the Documentary Unit produced Violación de un Sueño ("Rape in the Fields"), which was produced in partnership with the PBS documentary program Frontline and the Center for Investigative Reporting.

Programming

Noticiero Univision

The network's flagship newscast, Noticiero Univision, is a traditional evening news program that provides a general rundown of the day's news headlines, with more of a bent towards stories occurring in Latin America and, domestically, news stories and issues of utmost importance to Hispanic and Latino Americans. Because of this, reports focusing on immigration and diploma