# Bigfoot Presents: Meteor and the Mighty Monster Trucks

Bigfoot Presents: Meteor and the Mighty Monster Trucks is an animated television series created by David Snyder and Bill Gross, and produced by Quebec-based animation studio, Big Bang Digital Studios, Beverly Hills-based Endgame Entertainment, and CCI Entertainment, which aired from September 25, 2006, to July 1, 2008, on Discovery Kids. It presented the fictional adventures of anthropomorphic monster trucks with the personalities of younger children.

In 2007, the series was nominated for an Emmy Award in the Outstanding Special Class Animated Programs category. Head writers credited on the show were Ken Cuperus, Alice Prodanou and Dave Dias. Voices were recorded in Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

Plot
Episodes take place in the fictional place of Crushington Park, especially in a practice arena full of obstacles and cars to destroy. The reference to Bigfoot (the original monster truck) appears to be a late addition to the program. The first premiere episode "Race Relations" does not have the character LT (Bigfoot's son), but instead has a tow truck named Hook who also has a profile on the official website. The official website also includes a video from a pre-Bigfoot version of the pilot episode with a different theme song.

Characters

Main 
 Meteor T. Rover (voiced by Cameron Ansell) is a space expeditionary rover-modeled monster truck sporting red tires and the main protagonist of the series.
 José (voiced by Mitchell Eisner) is a fire engine-modeled monster truck and the cousin of LT. Has pickaxe and fire helmet patterns on his tires.
 Junkboy (voiced by Cliff Saunders) is a garbage truck-modeled monster truck. Has trash can patterns on his tires.
 Ponytail (voiced by Tajja Isen) is a pink monster truck sporting a blonde ponytail and horseshoe patterns on her tires.
 Little Tow (LT) (voiced by Scott McCord) is a tow truck-modeled monster truck based on the 2004-2008 Ford F-150, who is the son of Bigfoot and the cousin of José. He has tow hook patterns on his tires.
 Sarge (voiced by Dan Petronijevic) is a military Jeep-modeled monster truck. He typically refers to his friends as "soldiers", hence his military-like personality.
 Sinker (voiced by Linda Ballantyne) is a bluish-green monster truck decked out in fishing gear and wears a red and yellow checkered hat. He has fish patterns on his tires.
 Amby (voiced by Laurie Elliot) is an ambulance-modeled monster truck. Has band-aid patterns on his tires.
 Big Wheelie (voiced by Brad Adamson and Martin Roach) is a school bus-modeled monster truck with flames, and the teacher/headmaster of Crushington Park School.
 The Race Announcer (voiced by Brad Adamson) is an unseen announcer who commentates the races the trucks are in.

Supporting
 Bigfoot (voiced by Rod Wilson) is the most famous monster truck. He is LT and Zooey's dad, and José's uncle. Bigfoot is always seen at the Crushington Park Speedway practicing with the other famous monster trucks. He is loosely based on a lot more generic version of the ninth generation Ford F-Series with a split windshield, minus the turn signals, and named after the truck of the same name.
 Boo Boo (voiced by George Buza) is the owner of Boo Boo's Body Shop and is the only mechanic in town.
 Buck Haymaker (voiced by Keith Hampshire) is a tractor-styled monster truck. He is Pony's father and Duke's uncle.
 Cement Brent is a cement truck-styled monster truck. He is the father of Concrete Pete.
 Concrete Pete is a young cement truck-styled monster truck. He has V patterns on his tires.
 Cosmo Starfinder (voiced by Len Carlson) is a famous monster truck who is one of Meteor's heroes.
 Crushmeister (voiced by Cathal J. Dodd) is a famous monster truck. He is friends with Big Wheelie.
 Duke (voiced by Lyon Smith) is Pony's cousin. He has cow horn patterns on his tires.
 Dynamic Dan (voiced by Brian Froud) is the host of the TV show "Monster Trucking Today." Dynamic Dan has film patterns on his tires.
 Forby Forklift is a forklift-styled monster truck with golden-brown tires.
 Grandpa Rover (voiced by Bill Lynn) is Meteor's grandfather.
 Hook (voiced by Joanne Vannicola) is an orange monster truck who has broken lightbulb and cross-bone patterns on his tires.
 King Crush is an oversized steamroller-like monster truck from the horror movies.
 Mrs. Halftrack (voiced by Valerie Boyle) is a monster truck that once served in the military. She served as substitute teacher while Big Wheelie was competing in a mountain monster truck race in "Where's Wheelie".
 Mrs. Rover (voiced by Julie Lemieux) is Meteor's mom who is currently on a space mission.
 Senora Rosa (voiced by Rosa Labordé) is LT and Zooey's mom. Has rose patterns on her tires.
 Sue the Rooter is a sewage truck-styled monster truck. She has plunger patterns on her tires.
 Zooey (voiced by Isabel de Carteret) is LT's younger sister. She has two pigtails, and knows everything about animals. Has paw-print patterns on her tires.
 Girl Truck (voiced by Alessandra Cannito in "King Krush" and Tajja Isen in "Special Delivery") is a yellow truck resembling Amby.
 Boy Truck (voiced by Timothy Lai in "King Krush" and Cole Caplan in "Special Delivery") is a blue truck resembling Ponytail.

Episodes

Christian version
A Christian version of Meteor, called Monster Truck Adventures, was produced and aired on The Church Channel and TBN in 2012. In this version, the race announcer would expound more upon each episode by reviewing its events and linking it to a Bible verse. This version partially removes references of Discovery Kids by replacing its logo with the Rising Star logo.

It was also broadcast on the Australian Christian Channel in Australia.

References

External links
 

2000s American animated television series
2000s American children's television series
2006 American television series debuts
2008 American television series endings
2000s Canadian animated television series
2000s Canadian children's television series
2006 Canadian television series debuts
2008 Canadian television series endings
American children's animated adventure television series
American children's animated sports television series
American computer-animated television series
American preschool education television series
Canadian children's animated adventure television series
Canadian children's animated sports television series
Canadian computer-animated television series
Canadian preschool education television series
Animated preschool education television series
2000s preschool education television series
English-language television shows
Cartoonito original programming
TLC (TV network) original programming
Discovery Kids original programming
Television series by 9 Story Media Group
Television series by Corus Entertainment
Animated television series about auto racing