# Rock Steady (All Saints song)

"Rock Steady" is a song performed by English-Canadian recording girl group All Saints from their third studio album, Studio 1 (2006). It was co-written by group member Shaznay Lewis in collaboration with the track's producer Greg Kurstin. The song was released by Parlophone on 6 November 2006. All Saints collaborated with Kurstin on a number of songs; six were chosen for the album. "Rock Steady" was released as the first single from it. The song contains prominent 2 tone, dance-pop, reggae fusion, rocksteady and ska musical characteristics. It is lyrically influenced by the personalities of the group members themselves.

"Rock Steady" received mainly positive reviews from contemporary music critics. The song also garnered charting success for All Saints both in the United Kingdom and internationally. It debuted at number 11 on the UK Singles Chart before reaching a peak of number three the following week. It became All Saints' ninth consecutive top 10 hit in the United Kingdom. The single also garnered chart success internationally; peaking within the top 10 in the Czech Republic, Finland, Hungary and Spain, and the top 40 in several other countries.

The accompanying music video for "Rock Steady" was directed by W.I.Z. and it was released on 30 September 2006; it features the group acting as professional bank robbers. In order to promote the song, All Saints performed "Rock Steady" live on various television shows, including Ant & Dec's Saturday Night Takeaway, Popworld and Top of the Pops, and was subsequently performed on their Red Flag Tour (2016) and Testament Tour (2018).

Background, release, and composition
All Saints announced in January 2006 that the group had officially reformed after splitting in 2001. On 20 September 2006, the group revealed that the title of their 'comeback single' was "Rock Steady" and that it would be released on 6 November, accompanied by two B-sides: "Dope Noize" and "Do Me". The song premiered on BBC Radio 1's The Chris Moyles Show on 21 September 2006. In Australia, a CD single was issued on 15 January 2007.

The song was produced by Greg Kurstin. Kurstin also performed all instrumentation involved in the song and, recorded and mixed the song at Mayfair Studios in London, England. John Hudson was Kurstin's recording assistant for the track and Jasper Irm, Simon Hayes and Toshi Minesaki were involved in its engineering. All backing vocals in the song are sung by group members Nicole Appleton and Natalie Appleton. "Rock Steady" was mastered by Geoff Pesche.

The song is composed in the key of D minor, the beat is set in common time and moves at 136 beats per minute. "Rock Steady" features a different and new style in music in comparison to previous All Saints tracks. It is upbeat song which contains prominent elements of 2 tone, dance-pop, reggae fusion, rocksteady and ska music, and was described by the Huddersfield Daily Examiner as having "sassy reggae pop" musical characteristics. The song is constructed in verse-chorus form. The first verse is sung by Lewis and the second verse is sung by Nicole. Melanie Blatt leads the song's middle eight along with Natalie. All the verses are sung in call and response with the chorus being sung as a combined vocal by all group members with Lewis on lead.

Controversy
Surrounding the release of "Rock Steady" was controversy regarding its sound after Cheryl from rival British girl group Girls Aloud accused the All Saints single of sounding like one of Girls Aloud's. In an interview with MTV UK, group member Blatt sarcastically responded to the accusation: "'Jump (for My Love)' is so where I wanna be. [...] We could only aspire and dream to be like them (Girls Aloud). Hopefully one day we will achieve that. For now, we will have to make do with copying them." In the same interview, Nicole responded: "We all have vaginas. That's about as similar as it gets." Lewis went on to say that she doesn't care what Girls Aloud thinks, referring to them as "stupid little girls". Lewis later substantiated her reference in another interview, saying:
We [All Saints] say what we want. As long as we stand true and say what we believe, it's fine. I stand by it and I mean it. If you [Cheryl] say things about people for any other reason you have to be careful because you will bump into them. So you'd better mean what you say. We are four feisty women with a lot of attitude. We're confident because we're older now. People forget they're not talking Girls Aloud or Sugababes – we're 30-odd-year-old women so we aren't dizzy anymore. It's not cockiness, it's maturity. The industry is so false and we know that but when you're younger you think it's the be all and end all.

However, Girls Aloud member Sarah Harding rubbished reports of the feud, saying: "[...] It was taken out of proportion, twisted and they [All Saints] retaliated. I actually had a drink with Natalie Appleton and Liam Gallagher the other week as we have a mutual friend – everything is fine, honestly."

Critical reception
John Murphy from musicOMH was positive in his review of the song, saying it was a good example of how at ease the group sounded with their new direction. He called it "fresh and cool", and also complimented the Appleton sisters' backing vocals, noting they "fit in beautifully". Matthew Chisling of AllMusic described the song as a "kicking track" and "solid dance hit with enticing grooves". M. H. Lo of Stylus Magazine gave the track a nine out of ten rating, complimenting its "brilliantly insistent chorus" as well as its backing track, "the song will not leave your mind as long as you're willing to give it three spins. The golden age of British girl bands receives reinforcements". Virgin Medias Hamish Champ mentioned that "one can't help feeling that the quartet has made a conscious decision to move into Girls Aloud territory". Leon McDermott from the Sunday Herald also gave the song a positive review, saying: "An updated take on the sound they made their own, it adds cheeky nods to Jamaican-inspired two tone, ska and rock steady the genre that provides the title for their skanking, jumping comeback single".

However, the song was also criticised. Mickey McMonagle from Sunday Mail said there was "too much of the old Girls Aloud sound about this comeback single for me to get too excited", and that he expected something more fresh and exciting for the group's comeback. Paul Connolly from the Evening Standard mentioned that the song "does smack off cynicism, however. It sounds like a 50/50 splice of Girls Aloud's pop dynamism and Sugababes' slouchy thrift-shop R&B. It really doesn't do the girls any justice". He completed his review of the song saying it was not "a terrible song – it's just kind of pointless". Fraser McAlpine of the BBC Chart Blog gave the single a two-star rating, commenting that "the Saints are acting quite devilishly in pinching approximately 98.3% of their sound, mixing it with the dodgy checkered-trousered leftovers from the Ordinary Boys' Brassbound, and throwing in every single senseless lyric from every single girl band song ever".

Chart performance
In the United Kingdom, "Rock Steady" debuted on the UK Singles Chart at number 11 on the issue dated 11 November 2006. It was the second highest new entry in the chart for that week, behind U2 and Green Day collaboration single "The Saints Are Coming", which debuted at number six. The chart debut of the song marked All Saints' first appearance on the chart since "All Hooked Up" (2001). The next week, it faced competition from rival girl band Sugababes' new single and "Easy", which also had debuted the previous week at number 30. On 18 November, the song climbed eight places to reach a peak of number three, outpeaking the Sugababes single who peaked at number eight for that week. "Rock Steady" spent ten weeks on the chart before exiting at number 65, on 13 January 2007. As of July 2018, the song was the group's eighth best selling single in the United Kingdom.

In Austria, "Rock Steady" debuted at number 67 on 17 November 2006, before peaking at number 20 on 22 December 2006. It spent a total of 12 weeks on the chart. The track debuted and peaked at number 10 in Finland, becoming the group's third top 10 hit there. "Rock Steady" debuted at number 40 in Hungary, but later peaked at number five on the chart issued for the sixth week of 2007; it spent 17 weeks on the chart. The song peaking at number 15 in Ireland, becoming All Saints' eighth top 20 hit in the country and spending a total of five weeks in the chart. "Rock Steady" peaked at number 16 in Italy and spent a total of four weeks in the chart. On 12 November 2006, "Rock Steady" debuted and peaked at number 10 in Spain, spending a total of three weeks on the chart. In Switzerland, it debuted at number 40 on 3 December 2006, later peaking at number 37 for two weeks, spending a total of 11 weeks on the chart.

Music video

Weeks of planning went into shooting the music video for