# Bra–ket notation

Bra–ket notation, also called Dirac notation, is a notation for linear algebra and linear operators on complex vector spaces together with their dual space both in the finite-dimensional and infinite-dimensional case. It is specifically designed to ease the types of calculations that frequently come up in quantum mechanics. Its use in quantum mechanics is quite widespread.

Bra-ket notation was created by Paul Dirac in his 1939 publication A New Notation for Quantum Mechanics. The notation was introduced as an easier way to write quantum mechanical expressions. The name comes from the English word "Bracket".

Quantum mechanics
In quantum mechanics, bra–ket notation is used ubiquitously to denote quantum states. The notation uses angle brackets,  and , and a vertical bar , to construct "bras" and "kets".

A ket is of the form . Mathematically it denotes a vector, , in an abstract (complex) vector space , and physically it represents a state of some quantum system.

A bra is of the form . Mathematically it denotes a linear form , i.e. a linear map that maps each vector in  to a number in the complex plane . Letting the linear functional  act on a vector  is written as .

Assume that on  there exists an inner product  with antilinear first argument, which makes  an inner product space. Then with this inner product each vector  can be identified with a corresponding linear form, by placing the vector in the anti-linear first slot of the inner product: . The correspondence between these notations is then . The linear form  is a covector to , and the set of all covectors form a subspace of the dual vector space , to the initial vector space . The purpose of this linear form  can now be understood in terms of making projections on the state , to find how linearly dependent two states are, etc.

For the vector space , kets can be identified with column vectors, and bras with row vectors. Combinations of bras, kets, and linear operators are interpreted using matrix multiplication. If  has the standard Hermitian inner product , under this identification, the identification of kets and bras and vice versa provided by the inner product is taking the Hermitian conjugate (denoted ).

It is common to suppress the vector or linear form from the bra–ket notation and only use a label inside the typography for the bra or ket. For example, the spin operator  on a two dimensional space  of spinors, has eigenvalues  with eigenspinors . In bra–ket notation, this is typically denoted as , and . As above, kets and bras with the same label are interpreted as kets and bras corresponding to each other using the inner product. In particular, when also identified with row and column vectors, kets and bras with the same label are identified with Hermitian conjugate column and row vectors.

Bra–ket notation was effectively established in 1939 by Paul Dirac; it is thus also known as Dirac notation, despite the notation having a precursor in Hermann Grassmann's use of  for inner products nearly 100 years earlier.

Vector spaces

Vectors vs kets

In mathematics, the term "vector" is used for an element of any vector space. In physics, however, the term "vector" tends to refer almost exclusively to quantities like displacement or velocity, which have components that relate directly to the three dimensions of space, or relativistically, to the four of spacetime. Such vectors are typically denoted with over arrows (), boldface () or indices ().

In quantum mechanics, a quantum state is typically represented as an element of a complex Hilbert space, for example, the infinite-dimensional vector space of all possible wavefunctions (square integrable functions mapping each point of 3D space to a complex number) or some more abstract Hilbert space constructed more algebraically. To distinguish this type of vector from those described above, it is common and useful in physics to denote an element  of an abstract complex vector space as a ket , to refer to it as a "ket" rather than as a vector, and to pronounce it "ket-" or "ket-A" for .

Symbols, letters, numbers, or even words—whatever serves as a convenient label—can be used as the label inside a ket, with the  making clear that the label indicates a vector in vector space. In other words, the symbol "" has a recognizable mathematical meaning as to the kind of variable being represented, while just the "" by itself does not. For example,  is not necessarily equal to . Nevertheless, for convenience, there is usually some logical scheme behind the labels inside kets, such as the common practice of labeling energy eigenkets in quantum mechanics through a listing of their quantum numbers. At its simplest, the label inside the ket is the eigenvalue of a physical operator, such as , , , etc.

Notation

Since kets are just vectors in a Hermitian vector space, they can be manipulated using the usual rules of linear algebra. For example:

Note how the last line above involves infinitely many different kets, one for each real number .

Since the ket is an element of a vector space, a bra  is an element of its dual space, i.e. a bra is a linear functional which is a linear map from the vector space to the complex numbers. Thus, it is useful to think of kets and bras as being elements of different vector spaces (see below however) with both being different useful concepts.

A bra  and a ket  (i.e. a functional and a vector), can be combined to an operator  of rank one with outer product

Inner product and bra–ket identification on Hilbert space

The bra–ket notation is particularly useful in Hilbert spaces which have an inner product that allows Hermitian conjugation and identifying a vector with a continuous linear functional, i.e. a ket with a bra, and vice versa (see Riesz representation theorem). The inner product on Hilbert space  (with the first argument anti linear as preferred by physicists) is fully equivalent to an (anti-linear) identification between the space of kets and that of bras in the bra ket notation: for a vector ket  define a functional (i.e. bra)  by

Bras and kets as row and column vectors

In the simple case where we consider the vector space , a ket can be identified with a column vector, and a bra as a row vector. If moreover we use the standard Hermitian inner product on , the bra corresponding to a ket, in particular a bra  and a ket  with the same label are conjugate transpose. Moreover, conventions are set up in such a way that writing bras, kets, and linear operators next to each other simply imply matrix multiplication. In particular the outer product  of a column and a row vector ket and bra can be identified with matrix multiplication (column vector times row vector equals matrix).

For a finite-dimensional vector space, using a fixed orthonormal basis, the inner product can be written as a matrix multiplication of a row vector with a column vector:

Based on this, the bras and kets can be defined as:

and then it is understood that a bra next to a ket implies matrix multiplication.

The conjugate transpose (also called Hermitian conjugate) of a bra is the corresponding ket and vice versa:

because if one starts with the bra

then performs a complex conjugation, and then a matrix transpose, one ends up with the ket

Writing elements of a finite dimensional (or mutatis mutandis, countably infinite) vector space as a column vector of numbers requires picking a basis. Picking a basis is not always helpful because quantum mechanics calculations involve frequently switching between different bases (e.g. position basis, momentum basis, energy eigenbasis), and one can write something like "" without committing to any particular basis. In situations involving two different important basis vectors, the basis vectors can be taken in the notation explicitly and here will be referred simply as "" and "".

Non-normalizable states and non-Hilbert spaces 

Bra–ket notation can be used even if the vector space is not a Hilbert space.

In quantum mechanics, it is common practice to write down kets which have infinite norm, i.e. non-normalizable wavefunctions. Examples include states whose wavefunctions are Dirac delta functions or infinite plane waves. These do not, technically, belong to the Hilbert space itself. However, the definition of "Hilbert space" can be broadened to accommodate these states (see the Gelfand–Naimark–Segal construction or rigged Hilbert spaces). The bra–ket notation continues to work in an analogous way in this broader context.

Banach spaces are a different generalization of Hilbert spaces. In a Banach space , the vectors may be notated by kets and the continuous linear functionals by bras. Over any vector space without topology, we may also notate the vectors by kets and the linear functionals by bras. In these more general contexts, the bracket does not have the meaning of an inner product, because the Riesz representation theorem does not apply.

Usage in quantum mechanics

The mathemat