# Sigma baryon

The sigma baryons are a family of subatomic hadron particles which have two quarks from the first flavour generation (up and / or down quarks), and a third quark from a higher flavour generation, in a combination where the wavefunction sign remains constant when any two quark flavours are swapped. They are thus baryons, with total isospin of 1, and can either be neutral or have an elementary charge of +2, +1, 0, or −1. They are closely related to the Lambda baryons, which differ only in the wavefunction's behaviour upon flavour exchange.

The third quark can hence be either a strange (symbols , , ), a charm (symbols , , ), a bottom (symbols , , ) or a top (symbols , , ) quark. However, the top sigmas are expected to never be observed, since the Standard Model predicts the mean lifetime of top quarks to be roughly . This is about 20 times shorter than the timescale for strong interactions, and therefore it does not form hadrons.

List
The symbols encountered in these lists are:  (isospin),  (total angular momentum),  (parity), u (up quark), d (down quark), s (strange quark), c (charm quark), t (top quark), b (bottom quark),  (electric charge),  (strangeness),  (charmness),  (bottomness),  (topness), as well as other subatomic particles (hover for name).

Antiparticles are not listed in the table; however, they simply would have all quarks changed to antiquarks (and vice versa), and , , , , , , would be of opposite signs. , , and  values in red have not been firmly established by experiments, but are predicted by the quark model and are consistent with the measurements.

= + sigma baryons 

†  The standard model predicts that this particle cannot exist. 
[a]  PDG reports the resonance width (). Here the conversion  is given instead. 
[b]  The specific values of the name has not been decided yet, but will likely be close to (5810).

= + sigma baryons 

†  The standard model predicts that this particle cannot exist. 
[c]  PDG reports the resonance width (). Here the conversion  is given instead.

See also 
 Delta baryon
 Hyperon
 Lambda baryon
 List of mesons
 List of particles
 Nucleon
 Omega baryon
 Physics portal
 Timeline of particle discoveries
 Xi baryon

References

Bibliography 
 
 
 

Baryons