# Frit

A frit is a ceramic composition that has been fused, quenched, and granulated. Frits form an important part of the batches used in compounding enamels and ceramic glazes; the purpose of this pre-fusion is to render any soluble and/or toxic components insoluble by causing them to combine with silica and other added oxides.
However, not all glass that is fused and quenched in water is frit, as this method of cooling down very hot glass is also widely used in glass manufacture.

According to the OED, the origin of the word "frit" dates back to 1662 and is "a calcinated mixture of sand and fluxes ready to be melted in a crucible to make glass". Nowadays, the unheated raw materials of glass making are more commonly called "glass batch".

In antiquity, frit could be crushed to make pigments or shaped to create objects. It may also have served as an intermediate material in the manufacture of raw glass. The definition of frit tends to be variable and has proved a thorny issue for scholars. In recent centuries, frits have taken on a number of roles, such as biomaterials and additives to microwave dielectric ceramics. Frit in the form of alumino-silicate can be used in glaze-free continuous casting refractories.

Ancient frit 
Archaeologists have found evidence of frit in Egypt, Mesopotamia, Europe, and the Mediterranean. The definition of frit as a sintered, polycrystalline, unglazed material can be applied to these archaeological contexts. It is typically colored blue or green.

Blue frit 

Blue frit, also known as Egyptian blue, was made from quartz, lime, a copper compound, and an alkali flux, all heated to a temperature between 850 and 1000 °C. Quartz sand may have been used to contribute silica to the frit. The copper content must be greater than the lime content in order to create a blue frit. Ultimately the frit consists of cuprorivaite (CaCuSi4O10) crystals and "partially reacted quartz particles bonded together" by interstitial glass. Despite an argument to the contrary, scientists have found that, regardless of alkali content, the cuprorivaite crystals develop by "nucleation or growth within a liquid or glass phase". However, alkali content—and the coarseness of the cuprorivaite crystals—contribute to the shade of blue in the frit. High alkali content will yield "a large proportion of glass". thereby diluting the cuprorivaite crystals and producing lighter shades of blue. Regrinding and resintering the frit will create finer cuprorivaite crystals, also producing lighter shades.

The earliest appearance of blue frit is as a pigment on a tomb painting at Saqqara dated to 2900 BC, though its use became more popular in Egypt around 2600 BC. Blue frit has also been uncovered in the royal tombs at Ur from the Early Dynastic III period. Its use in the Mediterranean dates to the Thera frescoes from the Late Middle Bronze Age.

While the glass phase is present in blue frits from Egypt, scientists have not detected it in blue frits from the Near East, Europe, and the Aegean. Natural weathering, which is also responsible for the corrosion of glasses and glazes from these three regions, is the likely reason for this absence.

At Amarna, archaeologists have found blue frit in the form of circular cakes, powder residues, and vessel fragments. Analysis of the microstructures and crystal sizes of these frits has allowed Hatton, Shortland, and Tite to deduce the connection among the three materials. The cakes were produced by heating the raw materials for frit, then they were ground to make powders, and finally, the powders were molded and refired to create vessels.

In On Architecture, the first century BC writer Vitruvius reports the production of 'caeruleum' (a blue pigment) at Pozzuoli, made by a method used in Alexandria, Egypt. Vitruvius lists the raw materials for caeruleum as sand, copper filings, and 'nitrum' (soda). In fact, analysis of some frits that date to the time of Thutmose III and later show the use of bronze filings instead of copper ore.

Stocks suggests that waste powders from the drilling of limestone, combined with a minor concentration of alkali, may have been used to produce blue frits.  The powders owe their copper content to the erosion of the copper tubular drills used in the drilling process. However, the archaeological record has not yet confirmed such a relationship between these two technologies.

Green frit 

Evidence of the use of green frit is so far confined to Egypt. Alongside malachite, green frit was usually employed as a green pigment. Its earliest occurrence is in tomb paintings of the 18th dynasty, but its use extends at least to the Roman period. The manufacture of green and blue frit relies on the same raw materials, but in different proportions. To produce green frit, the lime concentration must outweigh the copper concentration. The firing temperature required for green frit may be slightly higher than that of blue frit, in the range of 950 to 1100 °C. The ultimate product is composed of copper-wollastonite ([Ca,Cu]3Si3O9) crystals and a "glassy phase rich in copper, sodium, and potassium chlorides". In certain circumstances (the use of a two-step heating process, the presence of hematite), scientists were able to make a cuprorivaite-based blue frit that later became a copper-wollastonite-based green frit at a temperature of 1050 °C. On some ancient Egyptian wall paintings, pigments that were originally blue are now green: the blue frit can "devitrify" so that the "copper wollastonite predominates over the lesser component of cuprorivaite". As with blue frit, Hatton, Shortland, and Tite have analyzed evidence for green frit at Amarna in the form of cakes, powders, and one vessel fragment and inferred the sequential production of the three types of artifacts.

Relationships between frit, glass and faience 
An Akkadian text from Assurbanipal's library at Nineveh suggests that a frit-like substance was an intermediate material in the production of raw glass. This intermediate step would have followed the grinding and mixing of the raw materials used to make glass. An excerpt of Oppenheim's translation of Tablet A, Section 1 of the Nineveh text reads:

The steps that follow involve reheating, regrinding and finally gathering the powder in a pan. Following the Nineveh recipe, Brill was able to produce a "high quality" glass. He deduced that the frit intermediate is necessary so that gases will evolve during this stage and the end product will be virtually free of bubbles. Furthermore, grinding the frit actually expedites the "second part of the process, which is to … reduce the system to a glass".

Moorey has defined this intermediate step as "fritting", "a process in which the soluble salts are made insoluble by breaking down the carbonates, etc. and forming a complex mass of sintered silicates". A frit preserved in a "fritting pan fragment" kept in the Petrie Museum "shows numerous white flecks of unreacted silica and a large number of vesicles where gases had formed". The process was known to ancient writers Pliny and Theophilus.

But whether this "fritting" was done in antiquity as a deliberate step in the manufacture of raw glass remains questionable. The compositions of frits and glasses recovered from Amarna do not agree in a way that would imply frits were the immediate precursors of glasses: the frits have lower concentrations of soda and lime and higher concentrations of cobalt and alumina than the glasses have.

Scholars have suggested several potential connections between frit and faience. Kühne proposes that frit may have acted as the "binding agent for faience" and suggests that this binder was composed predominantly of silica, alkali and copper with minor concentrations of alkali earths and tin. But analysis of a wide array of Egyptian frits contradicts the binder composition that Kühne offers. Vandiver and Kingery argue that one method of producing a faience glaze was to "frit or melt the glaze constituents to form a glass", then grind the glass and form a slurry in water, and finally apply the glaze “by dipping or painting.” However, their use of "frit" as virtually synonymous with "melt" represents yet another unique take on what a "frit" would constitute. Finally, Tite et al. report that frits, unusually colored blue by cobalt, found in "fritting pans" at Amarna have compositions and microstructures similar to that of vitreous faience, a higher-temperature form of Egyptian faience that incorporated cobalt into its body. In their reconstruction of the manufacture of vitreous faience, Tite et al. propose that the initial firing of raw materials at 1100–1200 °C produces a cobalt-blue frit, which is then ground, molded, and glazed.

In general, frits, glasses and faience are similar materials: they are all silica-based but have different concentrations of alkali, copper and lime. However, as Nicholson states, they are distinct materials because "it would not be possible to turn faience in