# Tokamak à configuration variable

The tokamak à configuration variable (TCV, literally "variable configuration tokamak") is an experimental tokamak located at the École Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne (EPFL) Swiss Plasma Center (SPC) in Lausanne, Switzerland. As the largest experimental facility of the Swiss Plasma Center, the TCV tokamak explores the physics of magnetic confinement fusion. It distinguishes itself from other tokamaks with its specialized plasma shaping capability, which can produce diverse plasma shapes without requiring hardware modifications.

The research carried out on TCV contributes to the physics understanding for ITER and future fusion power plants such as DEMO. It is currently part of EUROfusion's Medium-Sized Tokamak (MST) programme, alongside ASDEX Upgrade, MAST Upgrade and WEST.

The TCV tokamak produced its first plasma in November 1992 with full tokamak operation starting in June 1993.

Characteristics

Plasma shaping 
TCV features a highly elongated, rectangular vacuum vessel and 16 independently powered coils which facilitate development of new plasma configurations. A notable example is the discovery of significantly improved confinement with the negative triangularity shape in the late 1990s. Novel divertor configurations such as the snowflake divertor were also realised and explored on TCV.

ECRH-ECCD system 
Auxiliary heating is provided by the electron cyclotron resonance heating (ECRH) system. EC power in X-mode supplied by the X2 (second harmonic) and X3 (third harmonic) gyrotrons can be launched from the side or the top. The system can also support non-inductive plasma current via electron cyclotron current drive (ECCD). TCV is the first machine in world which has reported plasma with full current in ECCD in 2000.

Neutral beam injection system 
The neutral beam injection (NBI) system has been operated on TCV from 2015 for direct ion auxiliary heating which facilitates access to plasma regimes with high plasma pressure, a wider range of temperature ratios, and significant fast ion population. TCV currently has two heating neutral beams and a diagnostic neutral beam. The first heating neutral beam injector can provided up to 1.3 MW of heating power.

Removable neutral baffles 
TCV features an "open" divertor historically with limited separation between the divertor region and the main plasma. In 2019, TCV began to operate with removable neutral baffles in order to maximise the divertor neutral compression by limiting the transit of recycling neutrals from the wall to the confined plasma. Baffles of different lengths are available, allowing for experimental study of variable divertor closure.

Main studies 
 Confinement studies
 confinement as a function of the shape of the plasma (triangular, square or elongated)
 Improvement of the confinement of the core
 Studies on vertically elongated plasmas 
 Studies with ECRH and ECCD (electron cyclotron resonance heating and electron cyclotron current drive)

History 
 1976: First proposal for an elongated tokamak by the "New Swiss Association"
 1985: Second proposal, with a more elongated tokamak
 1986: Acceptance of the TCV proposal (Tokamak à Configuration Variable)
 1992: First plasma discharge
 1997: World record of plasma elongation (see plasma shaping)
 by August 2015 it has had a 19-month shutdown/upgrade to install its first neutral beam injector.

References

External links 

 TCV official site
 TCV Technical data as of Oct 2012

Tokamaks
École Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne