[Experimental Researches in Electricity — Faraday — Gutenberg #55148]

in that recollection, but so small a grain that it was swallowed up, perished for ever, in the honest joy that filled my heart. I had done the right thing, I had prepared to sacrifice myself, and this was my reward. Then the recollection of the old man upstairs came to me, and, bidding Franzius to wait for me, I ran from the room. I saw a servant on the stairs and called to him to bring wine and cigars to the gentleman in the library; then, two steps at a time, up I went to the dressing-room. I knocked and opened the door without waiting for a reply. Beril was tying my guardian's cravat. I took him by the shoulders and marched him out of the room. "Saved!" cried I to the astonished Vicomte as I stood with my back to the door and he stood opposite me, his striped satin cravat hanging loose and his hand half reaching for the bell. Then I told him all, and he saw that I was not mad. "Is he downstairs, this Monsieur Franzius?" asked my guardian when I had finished my tale and he had finished congratulating me. "Yes." "I would like to see him. Ask him to déjeûner." "He's rather---- I mean, you know, he's a Bohemian; does not bother much about dress and that sort of thing--so you must not expect to see a Boulevardier." "My dear sir," said the old man with delightful gaiety, "if one is in a burning building, does one trouble about the colour of the fire escape that saves one from destruction, or if it has been new painted? Ask him to déjeûner though he came dressed as a red Indian!" Franzius, when I found him in the library, would not touch the wine or cigars I had ordered up; he was in a frame of mind far above such earthly things. I made him sit down, and, taking a seat opposite to him, listened while he told me the whole affair. He declared that the idea of love for Eloise had never come to him of itself; he was far too humble to worship her, except as one worships the sun. It was his music that said to him: "She loves you, and you love her. Listen to me: Am I not beautiful? I am the child of your soul and hers; divine love has brought you together so that you might create me. I will exist for ever, for I am the child of two immortal souls." "Then, my friend," said Franzius, "I knew what love was--it is the birth of music in the heart, it is the music itself, the little birds try to tell us this. I had loved her without knowing from the first day; and when knowledge came to me I was still dumb; dumb as a miser who speaks not of his gold; till yesterday, when I told her all. She cried out and ran from me, and hid herself in the house, and I thought she was offended. I thought she did not love me, I thought the music had lied to me, and that there was no God, that the flowers were fiends in disguise, the sun a goblin. I came to Paris, I walked here and there, I met you, my distress was great. Then I returned to Etiolles. It was evening, towards sunset, and, coming through the wood near the Pavilion, I saw her. "She had taken her seat on the root of an old tree; her basket of needlework was by her side, and in her lap was an old coat; she had made me bring it to the Pavilion some days before, saying she would mend it. I thought she had forgotten it, but now it was in her lap; her needle was in her hand, and she had just finished mending a rent in the sleeve. Then she held it up as if to see were there any more to be done; then--she kissed it." "So that----" "Ah, my friend, all is right with me now. I have come home to the home that has been waiting for me all these weary years. Often when I have looked back at my wanderings I have said to myself, Why? It all seemed so useless and leading nowhere--such a zig-zag road here and there across Europe on foot, poor as ever when the year was done. _But now I see that every footstep of that journey was a footstep nearer to her_, and I praise God." He ceased, and I bowed my head. The holy spirit of Love seemed present in that room, and I dared not break the sacred silence with words. It was broken by the opening of the door, and the cheery voice of M. le Vicomte bidding me introduce him to my friend. CHAPTER XXIX IN THE SUNK GARDEN I shall never forget that déjeûner, and the kindness of my guardian to poor Franzius. The tall footmen who served us may have wondered at this very unaccustomed guest; but had the Emperor been sitting in Franzius' place M. le Vicomte could not have laid himself out more to please. And from no hidden motive. Franzius was his guest, he had invited him to déjeûner, he saw the Bohemian was ill at ease in his strange surroundings, and with exquisite delicacy only attainable by a man of good birth, trained in all the subtleties of life, he set himself the task of setting his guest at ease. When the meal was over we went into the smoking-room; and then, and only then, did M. le Vicomte refer to the question of Eloise in a few well-chosen words. Then he dismissed us as though we were schoolboys; and I took the musician off to see my apartments. Now, I am Irish, or at least three parts Irish, and I suppose that accounts for some eccentricities in my conduct of affairs. I am sure that it accounts for the fact that my joy up to this had carried me along so irresistibly and so pleasantly that I had not once looked back. It was when I opened the door of my sitting-room that memory, or perhaps conscience, woke up to deal my happiness a blow. The man beside me knew nothing of Eloise's past. Or did he? Never, I thought, as I looked at him. His happiness is new-born, it has been stained by no cloud. She has told him nothing. I sat down and watched him as he roamed about the room, examining the works of art, the pictures, and the hundred-and-one things, pretty or quaint; costly toys for the grown-up. I sat and watched him. An overmastering impulse came upon me to go at once to Etiolles, see Eloise, and speak to her alone, if possible. "Come," I said, "let us go down to the Pavilion. I want a breath of country air. Paris is smothering me. Shall we start?" He went to the library to fetch his violin, and we left the house. We took the train. It was a glorious September day; they were carting the corn at Evry; and the country, warm and mellow from the long, hot summer, was covered by the faintest haze, a gauze of heat that paled the horizon, making a diaphanous film from which the sky rose in a dome of perfect blue. The little gardens by the way were filled with autumn flowers--stocks and hollyhocks and Michaelmas daisies--simple and old-fashioned flowers, great bouquets with which God fills the hands of the poor, more beautiful than all the treasures of Parma and Bordighera. A child of six, a son of one of the railway porters, bound also for Etiolles on a message, tramped with us. Franzius carried him on his shoulder part of the way, and bought him sweets at the village shop. Eloise was not at the Pavilion. Madame Ancelot said she had taken her sewing and was in the sun-garden of the Château, and there we sought for her. This garden, small and protected from the east wind by a palisaded screen, was the prettiest place imaginable. It was at the back of the Château, and steps from it led up to the rose-garden. It had in its centre a square marble pond from which a Triton blew thin jets of water for ever at the sky. Eloise was seated on a small grassy bank; her workbasket was beside her; and she was engaged in some needlework which she held in her lap. She made a pretty picture against the hollyhocks which lined the bank; and prettier still she looked when, hearing our footsteps, she cast her work aside and ran to meet us. With a swift glance at Franzius, she ran straight to me and took both my hands in hers. "He has told you?" said she, looking up full and straight into my face, full and straight with perfect candour and firm eyes more liquid and beautiful than the blue of heaven washed by the early dawn. "He has told me," I replied, holding her hands in mine. All the sadness and pain that my past relationship with her had caused me was now banished, for I could read in her eyes, or, blind that I was, I thought I could read in her eyes, that the past was for her not in the new world in which she found herself. We sat down on the little grassy bank, and talked things over, the three of us. Three people who had found a treasure could not have been more happily jubilant as we talked of the future. "And you know," said I, "you will never want money. Franzius will be rich with his music; and even should he never care to write again, I have a large sum of money in trust for you. Oh, don't ask who gave it in trust for you both! It is there." We talked till the dusk fell and star after star came out. So dark was it when I left that a tiny point of light in Eloise's hair made me hold her head close to look. It was a glow-worm that had fallen from the bending hollyhocks. It seemed to me like a little star that God had placed there as a portent of fortune and happiness. When I got back to Paris my guardian was out. I went to my rooms to think things over. My thoughts had received a new orientation. I remembered my delight that morning on finding myself free--free of all that heaven! Ah, if I could only have loved her as Franzius did! What, then, was this thing called Love, which I had never