# Jimmy Haslip

James Robert Haslip (born December 31, 1951) is an American bass guitarist who was a founding member of the jazz fusion group the Yellowjackets, which he left in 2012. He was also an early user of the five-string electric bass.

Early life and career 

Born in the Bronx to Puerto Rican immigrants, Spanish was Haslip's first language and he learned to speak English in kindergarten. His father, James Joseph (Jaime) Haslip (1915–1999) served in the United States Customs Service, beginning as a Merchant Marine until moving to patrolman and eventually deputy commissioner, marrying Jimmy's mother Virginia (Viera) Haslip (1912–2009) in 1937.

Haslip moved to Huntington, New York when he was four years old. At age seven, he began playing drums and then moved onto other instruments such as trumpet and tuba until playing bass at age 15. Although he took music lessons and went to a private music school, he considers himself self-taught. He has said that he went to a local music shop with his father and purchased a right-handed bass (he is left-handed) and learned to play it upside down (without restringing).

In an interview with magazine JazzTimes, Haslip said he was surrounded by music as a young boy, from visiting nightclubs and concert venues to his peers. He explains that there was music in his house as well, from his older brother Gabriel listening to classic jazz, his father listening to Latin and orchestra jazz and his aunt listening to "sappy stuff like Jerry Vale and Johnny Mathis".  In high school, Haslip created his first band called Soul Mine with his high school classmates, playing soul music at school dances and parties.

In the early 1970s Haslip played with New York glam band Street Punk, he toured alongside musicians, and moved to Los Angeles in 1976, where he played with guitarists Tommy Bolin and Harvey Mandel. in addition to the Yellowjackets, he has worked with Jeff Lorber, Eric Marienthal, Bruce Hornsby, Rita Coolidge, Gino Vannelli, Kiss, Tommy Bolin, Allan Holdsworth, Marilyn Scott, Chaka Khan, Al Jarreau, Donald Fagen, and Anita Baker.

Haslip has released two solo albums: Arc, and Red Heat, with Joe Vannelli, in 2000. He was active with the Yellowjackets between 1977 and 2012. He was part of a combo with Allan Holdsworth, Alan Pasqua, and Chad Wackerman. Other collaborations include Jing Chi (with Robben Ford and Vinnie Colaiuta) and Modereko. Haslip was a member of the rock group Blackjack from 1979–1980 with Bruce Kulick, Sandy Gennaro, and Michael Bolton. He also toured with guitarist Allan Holdsworth and drummer Virgil Donati.

In 2012, Haslip took a year-long hiatus from Yellowjackets, which later turned permanent. Haslip wanted to devote more time to his family and other musical projects. He was replaced in Yellowjackets by Felix Pastorius, the son of Jaco Pastorius. Regarding this topic, he stated: "The primary reason for my hiatus is so that I can spend more quality time with my family", says Haslip. "I spent ten months on the road last year. The break will give me an opportunity to spend more time at home as well as work on other artistic endeavors, such as independently producing projects". Haslip adds, "This was not a rash decision and there is no animosity by any means. Everybody is still friends and I'm excited for the band and their upcoming plans with Felix".

Personal life and interests 
In a 1997 article, Haslip mentioned he has been a vegetarian since 1972 and leads a healthy life and enjoys exercising. He also said he has lost some of his music idols and mentors to drugs and violence including fellow bass player Jaco Pastorius.

In 2001, Haslip performed at a benefit concert for Union Station Foundation, a Pasadena, California-based organization for the homeless, alongside actors Hector Elizondo and Jeff Goldblum. Haslip also released a compilation album called "Junction" with all the proceeds going to the Union Station Foundation.

Haslip has a wife named Nancy, and they have three children. Haslip is also a fan of sports including football and baseball.

References

External links

 
 Yellowjackets Official Site
 Bass Frontiers interview
 Jimmy Haslip Interview NAMM Oral History Library (2021)

1951 births
Musicians from the Bronx
People from Huntington, New York
Living people
American jazz bass guitarists
American musicians of Puerto Rican descent
American rhythm and blues bass guitarists
American rock bass guitarists
American heavy metal bass guitarists
American male bass guitarists
American session musicians
Guitarists from New York City
20th-century American bass guitarists
Jazz musicians from New York (state)
20th-century American male musicians
American male jazz musicians
Yellowjackets members