# Quantum potential

The quantum potential or quantum potentiality is a central concept of the de Broglie–Bohm formulation of quantum mechanics, introduced by David Bohm in 1952.

Initially presented under the name quantum-mechanical potential, subsequently quantum potential, it was later elaborated upon by Bohm and Basil Hiley in its interpretation as an information potential which acts on a quantum particle. It is also referred to as quantum potential energy, Bohm potential, quantum Bohm potential or Bohm quantum potential.

In the framework of the de Broglie–Bohm theory, the quantum potential is a term within the Schrödinger equation which acts to guide the movement of quantum particles. The quantum potential approach introduced by Bohm provides a physically less fundamental exposition of the idea presented by Louis de Broglie: de Broglie had postulated in 1925 that the relativistic wave function defined on spacetime represents a pilot wave which guides a quantum particle, represented as an oscillating peak in the wave field, but he had subsequently abandoned his approach because he was unable to derive the guidance equation for the particle from a non-linear wave equation. The seminal articles of Bohm in 1952 introduced the quantum potential and included answers to the objections which had been raised against the pilot wave theory.

The Bohm quantum potential is closely linked with the results of other approaches, in particular relating to work by Erwin Madelung of 1927 and to work by Carl Friedrich von Weizsäcker of 1935.

Building on the interpretation of the quantum theory introduced by Bohm in 1952, David Bohm and Basil Hiley in 1975 presented how the concept of a quantum potential leads to the notion of an "unbroken wholeness of the entire universe", proposing that the fundamental new quality introduced by quantum physics is nonlocality.

Quantum potential as part of the Schrödinger equation 
The Schrödinger equation

is re-written using the polar form for the wave function  with real-valued functions  and , where  is the amplitude (absolute value) of the wave function , and  its phase. This yields two equations: from the imaginary and real part of the Schrödinger equation follow the continuity equation and the quantum Hamilton–Jacobi equation respectively.

Continuity equation 
The imaginary part of the Schrödinger equation in polar form yields

which, provided , can be interpreted as the continuity equation  for the probability density  and the velocity field

Quantum Hamilton–Jacobi equation 
The real part of the Schrödinger equation in polar form yields a modified Hamilton–Jacobi equation

also referred to as quantum Hamilton–Jacobi equation. It differs from the classical Hamilton–Jacobi equation only by the term

This term , called quantum potential, thus depends on the curvature of the amplitude of the wave function.

In the limit , the function  is a solution of the (classical) Hamilton–Jacobi equation; therefore, the function  is also called the Hamilton–Jacobi function, or action, extended to quantum physics.

Properties 

Hiley emphasised several aspects that regard the quantum potential of a quantum particle:
 it is derived mathematically from the real part of the Schrödinger equation under polar decomposition of the wave function, is not derived from a Hamiltonian or other external source, and could be said to be involved in a self-organising process involving a basic underlying field;
 it does not change if  is multiplied by a constant, as this term is also present in the denominator, so that  is independent of the magnitude of  and thus of field intensity; therefore, the quantum potential fulfils a precondition for nonlocality: it need not fall off as distance increases;
 it carries information about the whole experimental arrangement in which the particle finds itself.

In 1979, Hiley and his co-workers Philippidis and Dewdney presented a full calculation on the explanation of the two-slit experiment in terms of Bohmian trajectories that arise for each particle moving under the influence of the quantum potential, resulting in the well-known interference patterns.

Also the shift of the interference pattern which occurs in presence of a magnetic field in the Aharonov–Bohm effect could be explained as arising from the quantum potential.

Relation to the measurement process 
The collapse of the wave function of the Copenhagen interpretation of quantum theory is explained in the quantum potential approach by the demonstration that, after a measurement, "all the packets of the multi-dimensional wave function that do not correspond to the actual result of measurement have no effect on the particle" from then on. Bohm and Hiley pointed out that
‘the quantum potential can develop unstable bifurcation points, which separate classes of particle trajectories according to the "channels" into which they eventually enter and within which they stay. This explains how measurement is possible without "collapse" of the wave function, and how all sorts of quantum processes, such as transitions between states, fusion of two states into one and fission of one system into two, are able to take place without the need for a human observer.’

Measurement then "involves a participatory transformation in which both the system under observation and the observing apparatus undergo a mutual participation so that the trajectories behave in a correlated manner, becoming correlated and separated into different, non-overlapping sets (which we call ‘channels’)".

Quantum potential of an n-particle system 
The Schrödinger wave function of a many-particle quantum system cannot be represented in ordinary three-dimensional space. Rather, it is represented in configuration space, with three dimensions per particle. A single point in configuration space thus represents the configuration of the entire n-particle system as a whole.

A two-particle wave function  of identical particles of mass  has the quantum potential

where  and  refer to particle 1 and particle 2 respectively. This expression generalizes in straightforward manner to  particles:

In case the wave function of two or more particles is separable, then the system's total quantum potential becomes the sum of the quantum potentials of the two particles. Exact separability is extremely unphysical given that interactions between the system and its environment destroy the factorization; however, a wave function that is a superposition of several wave functions of approximately disjoint support will factorize approximately.

Derivation for a separable quantum system
That the wave function is separable means that  factorizes in the form . Then it follows that also  factorizes, and the system's total quantum potential becomes the sum of the quantum potentials of the two particles.

In case the wave function is separable, that is, if  factorizes in the form , the two one-particle systems behave independently. More generally, the quantum potential of an -particle system with separable wave function is the sum of  quantum potentials, separating the system into  independent one-particle systems.

Formulation in terms of probability density

Quantum potential in terms of the probability density function 
Bohm, as well as other physicists after him, have sought to provide evidence that the Born rule linking  to the probability density function

can be understood, in a pilot wave formulation, as not representing a basic law, but rather a theorem (called quantum equilibrium hypothesis) which applies when a quantum equilibrium is reached during the course of the time development under the Schrödinger equation. With Born's rule, and straightforward application of the chain and product rules

the quantum potential, expressed in terms of the probability density function, becomes:

Quantum force 
The quantum force , expressed in terms of the probability distribution, amounts to:

Formulation in configuration space and in momentum space, as the result of projections 
M. R. Brown and B. Hiley showed that, as alternative to its formulation terms of configuration space (-space), the quantum potential can also be formulated in terms of momentum space (-space).

In line with David Bohm's approach, Basil Hiley and mathematician Maurice de Gosson showed that the quantum potential can be seen as a consequence of a projection of an underlying structure, more specifically of a non-commutative algebraic structure, onto a subspace such as ordinary space (-space). In algebraic terms, the quantum potential can be seen as arising from the relation between implicate and explicate orders: if a non-commutative algebra is employed to describe the non-commutative structure of the quantum formalism, it turns out that it is impossible to define an underlying space, but that rather "shadow spaces" (homomorphic spaces) can be constructed and that in so doing the quantum potential appears. The quantum potential approach can be seen as a way to const