[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: Current density | Type: Instruction-QA | Level: Graduate]

Question: Provide a comprehensive expert-level explanation of Current density in the context of Applied Sciences.

Answer:
In electromagnetism, current density is the amount of charge per unit time that flows through a unit area of a chosen cross section. The current density vector is defined as a vector whose magnitude is the electric current per cross-sectional area at a given point in space, its direction being that of the motion of the positive charges at this point. In SI base units, the electric current density is measured in amperes per square metre.

Definition 
Assume that  (SI unit: m2) is a small surface centred at a given point  and orthogonal to the motion of the charges at . If  (SI unit: A) is the electric current flowing through , then electric current density  at  is given by the limit:

with surface  remaining centered at  and orthogonal to the motion of the charges during the limit process.

The current density vector  is the vector whose magnitude is the electric current density, and whose direction is the same as the motion of the positive charges at .

At a given time , if  is the velocity of the charges at , and  is an infinitesimal surface centred at  and orthogonal to , then during an amount of time , only the charge contained in the volume formed by  and  will flow through . This charge is equal to  where  is the charge density at . The electric current is , it follows that the current density vector is the vector normal  (i.e. parallel to ) and of magnitude 

The surface integral of  over a surface , followed by an integral over the time duration  to , gives the total amount of charge flowing through the surface in that time ():

More concisely, this is the integral of the flux of  across  between  and .

The area required to calculate the flux is real or imaginary, flat or curved, either as a cross-sectional area or a surface. For example, for charge carriers passing through an electrical conductor, the area is the cross-section of the conductor, at the section considered.

The vector area is a combination of the magnitude of the area through which the charge carriers pass, , and a unit vector normal to the area,  The relation is 

The differential vector area similarly follows from the definition given above: 

If the current density  passes through the area at an angle  to the area normal  then

where  is the dot product of the unit vectors. That is, the component of current density passing through the surface (i.e. normal to it) is , while the component of current density passing tangential to the area is , but there is no current density actually passing through the area in the tangential direction. The only component of current density passing normal to the area is the cosine component.

Importance
Current density is important to the design of electrical and electronic systems.

Circuit performance depends strongly upon the designed current level, and the current density then is determined by the dimensions of the conducting elements. For example, as integrated circuits are reduced in size, despite the lower current demanded by smaller devices, there is a trend toward higher current densities to achieve higher device numbers in ever smaller chip areas. See Moore's law.

At high frequencies, the conducting region in a wire becomes confined near its surface which increases the current density in this region. This is known as the skin effect.

High current densities have undesirable consequences. Most electrical conductors have a finite, positive resistance, making them dissipate power in the form of heat.  The current density must be kept sufficiently low to prevent the conductor from melting or burning up, the insulating material failing, or the desired electrical properties changing. At high current densities the material forming the interconnections actually moves, a phenomenon called electromigration.  In superconductors excessive current density may generate a strong enough magnetic field to cause spontaneous loss of the superconductive property.

The analysis and observation of current density also is used to probe the physics underlying the nature of solids, including not only metals, but also semiconductors and insulators. An elaborate theoretical formalism has developed to explain many fundamental observations.

The current density is an important parameter in Ampère's circuital law (one of Maxwell's equations), which relates current density to magnetic field.

In special relativity theory, charge and current are combined into a 4-vector.

Calculation of current densities in matter

Free currents
Charge carriers which are free to move constitute a free current density, which are given by expressions such as those in this section.

Electric current is a coarse, average quantity that tells what is happening in an entire wire. At position  at time , the distribution of charge flowing is described by the current density:

where 
 is the current density vector;
 is the particles' average drift velocity (SI unit: m∙s−1);
 is the charge density (SI unit: coulombs per cubic metre), in which 
 is the number of particles per unit volume ("number density") (SI unit: m−3);
 is the charge of the individual particles with density  (SI unit: coulombs).

A common approximation to the current density assumes the current simply is proportional to the electric field, as expressed by:

where  is the electric field and  is the electrical conductivity.

Conductivity  is the reciprocal (inverse) of electrical resistivity and has the SI units of siemens per metre (S⋅m−1), and  has the SI units of newtons per coulomb (N⋅C−1) or, equivalently, volts per metre (V⋅m−1).

A more fundamental approach to calculation of current density is based upon:

indicating the lag in response by the time dependence of , and the non-local nature of response to the field by the spatial dependence of , both calculated in principle from an underlying microscopic analysis, for example, in the case of small enough fields, the linear response function for the conductive behaviour in the material. See, for example, Giu