[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: traditional Chinese medicine herbs mechanism actio | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: traditional Chinese medicine herbs mechanism action]

82. Front Pharmacol. 2021 Aug 27;12:734450. doi: 10.3389/fphar.2021.734450. 
eCollection 2021.

Therapeutic Effects and Molecular Mechanisms of Bioactive Compounds Against 
Respiratory Diseases: Traditional Chinese Medicine Theory and High-Frequency 
Use.

Wang J(1), Wu Q(2), Ding L(3), Song S(3), Li Y(3), Shi L(1), Wang T(1), Zhao 
D(4), Wang Z(5), Li X(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Respiratory, Changchun University of Chinese Medicine, 
Changchun, China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Quality Research in Chinese Medicines, Faculty of 
Chinese Medicine, Macau University of Science and Technology, Macau, China.
(3)College of Integrated Traditional Chinese and Western Medicine, Changchun 
University of Chinese Medicine, Changchun, China.
(4)Jilin Ginseng Academy, Key Laboratory of Active Substances and Biological 
Mechanisms of Ginseng Efficacy, Ministry of Education, Jilin Provincial Key 
Laboratory of Bio-Macromolecules of Chinese Medicine, Changchun University of 
Chinese Medicine, Changchun, China.
(5)Department of Scientific Research, Changchun University of Chinese Medicine, 
Changchun, China.

Respiratory diseases, especially the pandemic of respiratory infectious diseases 
and refractory chronic lung diseases, remain a key clinical issue and research 
hot spot due to their high prevalence rates and poor prognosis. In this review, 
we aimed to summarize the recent advances in the therapeutic effects and 
molecular mechanisms of key common bioactive compounds from Chinese herbal 
medicine. Based on the theories of traditional Chinese medicine related to lung 
diseases, we searched several electronic databases to determine the 
high-frequency Chinese medicines in clinical application. The active compounds 
and metabolites from the selected medicines were identified using the 
Traditional Chinese Medicine Systems Pharmacology Database (TCMSP) by analyzing 
oral bioavailability and drug similarity index. Then, the pharmacological 
effects and molecular mechanisms of the selected bioactive compounds in the 
viral and bacterial infections, inflammation, acute lung injury (ALI), chronic 
obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), pulmonary fibrosis, asthma, and lung 
cancer were summarized. We found that 31 bioactive compounds from the selected 
10 common Chinese herbs, such as epigallocatechin-3-gallate (EGCG), kaempferol, 
isorhamnetin, quercetin, and β-sitosterol, can mainly regulate NF-κB, Nrf2/HO-1, 
NLRP3, TGF-β/Smad, MAPK, and PI3K/Akt/mTOR pathways to inhibit infection, 
inflammation, extracellular matrix deposition, and tumor growth in a series of 
lung-related diseases. This review provides novel perspectives on the 
preclinical study and clinical application of Chinese herbal medicines and their 
bioactive compounds against respiratory diseases.

Copyright © 2021 Wang, Wu, Ding, Song, Li, Shi, Wang, Zhao, Wang and Li.

DOI: 10.3389/fphar.2021.734450
PMCID: PMC8429615
PMID: 34512360

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.