[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: cannabis cannabidiol therapeutic epilepsy pain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: cannabis cannabidiol therapeutic epilepsy pain]

7. BMC Psychiatry. 2020 Jan 16;20(1):24. doi: 10.1186/s12888-019-2409-8.

Medicinal cannabis for psychiatric disorders: a clinically-focused systematic 
review.

Sarris J(1)(2), Sinclair J(3), Karamacoska D(3), Davidson M(3), Firth J(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)NICM Health Research Institute, Western Sydney University, Westmead, NSW, 
2145, Australia. j.sarris@westernsydney.edu.au.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, The Melbourne Clinic, Professorial Unit, The 
University of Melbourne, Melbourne, Australia. j.sarris@westernsydney.edu.au.
(3)NICM Health Research Institute, Western Sydney University, Westmead, NSW, 
2145, Australia.
(4)Division of Psychology and Mental Health, University of Manchester, 
Manchester, UK.

BACKGROUND: Medicinal cannabis has received increased research attention over 
recent years due to loosening global regulatory changes. Medicinal cannabis has 
been reported to have potential efficacy in reducing pain, muscle spasticity, 
chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting, and intractable childhood epilepsy. 
Yet its potential application in the field of psychiatry is lesser known.
METHODS: The first clinically-focused systematic review on the emerging medical 
application of cannabis across all major psychiatric disorders was conducted. 
Current evidence regarding whole plant formulations and plant-derived 
cannabinoid isolates in mood, anxiety, sleep, psychotic disorders and attention 
deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is discussed; while also detailing 
clinical prescription considerations (including pharmacogenomics), occupational 
and public health elements, and future research recommendations. The systematic 
review of the literature was conducted during 2019, assessing the data from all 
case studies and clinical trials involving medicinal cannabis or plant-derived 
isolates for all major psychiatric disorders (neurological conditions and pain 
were omitted).
RESULTS: The present evidence in the emerging field of cannabinoid therapeutics 
in psychiatry is nascent, and thereby it is currently premature to recommend 
cannabinoid-based interventions. Isolated positive studies have, however, 
revealed tentative support for cannabinoids (namely cannabidiol; CBD) for 
reducing social anxiety; with mixed (mainly positive) evidence for adjunctive 
use in schizophrenia. Case studies suggest that medicinal cannabis may be 
beneficial for improving sleep and post-traumatic stress disorder, however 
evidence is currently weak. Preliminary research findings indicate no benefit 
for depression from high delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) therapeutics, or for 
CBD in mania. One isolated study indicates some potential efficacy for an oral 
cannabinoid/terpene combination in ADHD. Clinical prescriptive consideration 
involves caution in the use of high-THC formulations (avoidance in youth, and in 
people with anxiety or psychotic disorders), gradual titration, regular 
assessment, and caution in cardiovascular and respiratory disorders, pregnancy 
and breast-feeding.
CONCLUSIONS: There is currently encouraging, albeit embryonic, evidence for 
medicinal cannabis in the treatment of a range of psychiatric disorders. 
Supportive findings are emerging for some key isolates, however, clinicians need 
to be mindful of a range of prescriptive and occupational safety considerations, 
especially if initiating higher dose THC formulas.

DOI: 10.1186/s12888-019-2409-8
PMCID: PMC6966847
PMID: 31948424 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: JS1 and JS2 conduct cannabis research as 
university members of the Australia Medicinal Cannabis Research and Education 
Collaboration (www.AMCREC.org). JS1 has received consultancy payment from a 
cannabis manufacturing company as an independent scientific advisor (Australian 
Natural Therapeutics Group); this was however received many months after the 
creation and submission of this publication and was unrelated to this 
manuscript. He has also received either presentation honoraria, travel support, 
clinical trial grants, book royalties, or independent consultancy payments from: 
Integria Healthcare & MediHerb, Pfizer, Scius Health, Key Pharmaceuticals, 
Research Reviews, Taki Mai, Fiji Kava, Bioceuticals & Blackmores, Soho-Flordis, 
Healthworld, HealthEd, HealthMasters, Kantar Consulting, Elsevier, Chaminade 
University, International Society for Affective Disorders, Complementary 
Medicines Australia, SPRIM, Terry White Chemists, ANS, Society for Medicinal 
Plant and Natural Product Research, Sanofi-Aventis, Omega-3 Centre, the National 
Health and Medical Research Council, CR Roper Fellowship. JS2 has sat on the 
Scientific Advisory Board for BioCeuticals.