[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: Phytochemical Composition and Antioxidant and Anti-Inflammat | Type: OpenAlex-OA | Level: Graduate]

[OpenAlex | Herbal Medicine | Year: 2023 | Citations: 13]

Title: Phytochemical Composition and Antioxidant and Anti-Inflammatory Activities of Humboldtia sanjappae Sasidh. &amp; Sujanapal, an Endemic Medicinal Plant to the Western Ghats

Abstract:
Ethnomedicinal plants are important sources of drug candidates, and many of these plants, especially in the Western Ghats, are underexplored. Humboldtia, a genus within the Fabaceae family, thrives in the biodiversity of the Western Ghats, Kerala, India, and holds significant ethnobotanical importance. However, many Humboldtia species remain understudied in terms of their biological efficacy, while some lack scientific validation for their traditional uses. However, Humboldtia sanjappae, an underexplored plant, was investigated for the phytochemical composition of the plant, and its antioxidant, enzyme-inhibitory, anti-inflammatory, and antibacterial activities were assessed. The LC-MS analysis indicated the presence of several bioactive substances, such as Naringenin, Luteolin, and Pomiferin. The results revealed that the ethanol extract of H. sanjappae exhibited significant in vitro DPPH scavenging activity (6.53 ± 1.49 µg/mL). Additionally, it demonstrated noteworthy FRAP (Ferric Reducing Antioxidant Power) activity (8.46 ± 1.38 µg/mL). Moreover, the ethanol extract of H. sanjappae exhibited notable efficacy in inhibiting the activities of α-amylase (47.60 ± 0.19µg/mL) and β-glucosidase (32.09 ± 0.54 µg/mL). The pre-treatment with the extract decreased the LPS-stimulated release of cytokines in the Raw 264.7 macrophages, demonstrating the anti-inflammatory potential. Further, the antibacterial properties were also evident in both Gram-positive and Gram-negative bacteria. The observed high zone of inhibition in the disc diffusion assay and MIC values were also promising. H. sanjappae displays significant anti-inflammatory, antioxidant, antidiabetic, and antibacterial properties, likely attributable to its rich composition of various biological compounds such as Naringenin, Luteolin, Epicatechin, Maritemin, and Pomiferin. Serving as a promising reservoir of these beneficial molecules, the potential of H. sanjappae as a valuable source for bioactive ingredients within the realms of nutraceutical and pharmaceutical industries is underscored, showcasing its potential for diverse applications.