[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Propulsion Mechanics | Topic: Future Launchers Preparatory Programme | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Future Launchers Preparatory Programme — Overview

which is pursued is linked to the later application of the technology, these partners are usually industrial. If deemed beneficial, institutional partners or subcontractors will be chosen as well. Structure The FLPP is a development programme within the directorate of launchers at ESA. FLPP is funded by ESA member states on an optional basis. Participating states sign their contribution to FLPP during the ESA ministerial council. Chronologically, FLPP is structured in successive periods, which usually correspond to the time between ministerial councils. To maintain a continuity of work, these periods are overlapping. History

Inception
FLPP was started in February 2004 with the subscription to its declaration by 10 ESA member states. Period 1 (2004-2006)
Period 1 was focused on studies for future reusable launch vehicles (RLV). Several different RLV concepts were investigated to select feasible, cost-effective options. In addition, upgrades to reduce the cost of existing launchers were investigated. Period 2 Step 1 (2006-2009)
During this period, the work on reusable as well as expendable launch concepts was continued with system studies on several promising launcher configurations. In addition, key technologies for future launchers were integrated into demonstrators to increase their TRL sufficiently for an efficient integration into a launcher development. A major demonstrator project started in this period was the Intermediate eXperimental Vehicle (IXV). In addition, the development of the launcher upper stage engine Vinci was financed and managed by the FLPP programme during this time. Period 2 Step 2 (2009-2013)

The second step of period 2 completed the system studies on expendable launchers. The technology development activities, especially on upper stage and re-entry technologies as well as propulsion were continued. While the Vinci engine was transferred to Ariane 5 ME development, a demonstrator project for a high thrust first stage engine called Score-D was started. In addition a demonstrator project for an upper stage engine using storable propellants was created. The later part of this phase saw the inception of a cryogenic expander cycle demonstrator project. Multiple technology development and demonstrator projects were started concerning a wide range of promising technologies. These were in the fields of stage and interstage structures, tanks, avionics as well as hybrid and solid propulsion. Period 3/FLPP NEO (2013-2019)

Period 3 was started in 2013 and is overlapping with the FLPP NEO (New Economic Opportunities) period, initiated in 2016. With the inception of a dedicated Ariane 6 project, FLPP broadened its scope from the preparation of technologies for a specific next generation launcher to the general identification and maturation of promising technologies for future launchers as well as upgrades of current launch vehicles. The identification and maturation process of key technologies is still system driven and relies mainly on system studies and integrated demonstrators. An important objective is to foster synergies between different applications and launchers (e.g. Ariane and Vega). FLPP NEO continues the technology approach of the previous periods with emphasis on flagship demonstrators and very low cost launcher concepts. Projects
FLPP consists of multiple coordinated technology development projects. Past Projects
This section lists notable past projects in FLPP. This list includes only some major projects and is not exhaustive. NGL-ELV System studies
The NGL-ELV system studies were performed to identify promising configurations for a Next Generation Launcher to follow Ariane 5 as well as technologies which should be integrated into this launcher, to achieve high reliability, high performance and cost efficiency. If identified technologies did not have a sufficient TRL for efficient integration into a launcher development programme, those could then be matured within FLPP. Score-D
The Staged Combustion Rocket Engine Demonstrator (SCORE-D) was a project to develop key technologies and tools for the High Thrust Engine (HTE) which was planned to power the next generation launcher. As propellant combinations liquid oxygen/hydrogen and liquid oxygen/methane were considered. Several sub-scale tests were performed in the preparation of the demonstrator project. As solid propulsion was initially selected as a baseline for the first stage of Ariane 6, the project was stopped at the stage of an SRR. Vinci
The development of the re-ignitable cryogenic upper stage engine Vinci was financed and managed by FLPP from 2006 until 2008. Vinci was conceived as the engine for the new upper stage of the Ariane 5, the ESC-B (Etage Supérieur Cryotechnique B/Cryogenic Upper Stage B). It is a re-ignitable expander cycle engine, powered by liquid oxygen and liquid hydrogen. After the failed first flight of its predecessor ESC-A (V-157) in 2002, the development of ESC-B was stopped, but the Vinci development was continued and later transferred to FLPP.