[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: magnetic nanoparticle hyperthermia cancer therapy | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: magnetic nanoparticle hyperthermia cancer therapy]

54. Int J Mol Sci. 2020 Jul 22;21(15):5187. doi: 10.3390/ijms21155187.

Optimization of the Preparation of Magnetic Liposomes for the Combined Use of 
Magnetic Hyperthermia and Photothermia in Dual Magneto-Photothermal Cancer 
Therapy.

T S A(1), Lu YJ(2), Chen JP(1)(3)(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical and Materials and Materials Engineering, Chang Gung 
University, Kwei-San, Taoyuan 33302, Taiwan.
(2)Department of Neurosurgery, Chang Gung Memorial Hospital, Linkou, Kwei-San, 
Taoyuan 33305, Taiwan.
(3)Department of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery and Craniofacial Research 
Center, Chang Gung Memorial Hospital, Linkou, Kwei-San, Taoyuan 33305, Taiwan.
(4)Research Center for Food and Cosmetic Safety, Research Center for Chinese 
Herbal Medicine, College of Human Ecology, Chang Gung University of Science and 
Technology, Taoyuan 33302, Taiwan.
(5)Department of Materials Engineering, Ming Chi University of Technology, 
Tai-Shan, New Taipei City 24301, Taiwan.

In this work, we aimed to develop liposomal nanocomposites containing 
citric-acid-coated iron oxide magnetic nanoparticles (CMNPs) for dual 
magneto-photothermal cancer therapy induced by alternating magnetic field (AMF) 
and near-infrared (NIR) lasers. Toward this end, CMNPs were encapsulated in 
cationic liposomes to form nano-sized magnetic liposomes (MLs) for simultaneous 
magnetic hyperthermia (MH) in the presence of AMF and photothermia (PT) induced 
by NIR laser exposure, which amplified the heating efficiency for dual-mode 
cancer cell killing and tumor therapy. Since the heating capability is directly 
related to the amount of entrapped CMNPs in MLs, while the liposome size is 
important to allow internalization by cancer cells, response surface methodology 
was utilized to optimize the preparation of MLs by simultaneously maximizing the 
encapsulation efficiency (EE) of CMNPs in MLs and minimizing the size of MLs. 
The experimental design was performed based on the central composite rotatable 
design. The accuracy of the model was verified from the validation experiments, 
providing a simple and effective method for fabricating the best MLs, with an EE 
of 87% and liposome size of 121 nm. The CMNPs and the optimized MLs were fully 
characterized from chemical and physical perspectives. In the presence of dual 
AMF and NIR laser treatment, a suspension of MLs demonstrated amplified heat 
generation from dual hyperthermia (MH)-photothermia (PT) in comparison with 
single MH or PT. In vitro cell culture experiments confirmed the efficient 
cellular uptake of the MLs from confocal laser scanning microscopy due to 
passive accumulation in human glioblastoma U87 cells originated from the 
cationic nature of MLs. The inducible thermal effects mediated by MLs after 
endocytosis also led to enhanced cytotoxicity and cumulative cell death of 
cancer cells in the presence of AMF-NIR lasers. This functional nanocomposite 
will be a potential candidate for bimodal MH-PT dual magneto-photothermal cancer 
therapy.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms21155187
PMCID: PMC7432522
PMID: 32707876 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.