[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: Cambridge Structural Database | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Cambridge Structural Database — Overview

the breadth of CSD holdings are reported, for example the January 2014 report. , the summary statistics are as follows: As of January 2019, the top 25 scientific journals in terms of publication of structures in the CSD repository were: 1. structures were reported in Inorg. Chem. 2. structures were reported in Dalton & J. Chem. Soc., Dalton Trans. 3. structures were reported in Organometallics 4. structures were reported in J. Am. Chem. Soc. 5. structures were reported in Acta Crystallogr. Sect. E
6. structures were reported in Chem. Eur. J. 7. structures were reported in J. Organomet. Chem. 8. structures were reported in Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 9. structures were reported in Inorg. Chim. Acta 
10. structures were reported in Chem. Commun. & J. Chem. Soc. 11. structures were reported in CSD Communications
12. structures were reported in Acta Crystallogr. Sect. C
13. structures were reported in Polyhedron 
14. structures were reported in Eur. J. Inorg. Chem. 15. structures were reported in J. Org. Chem. 16. structures were reported in Cryst. Growth Des. 17. structures were reported in CrystEngComm
18. structures were reported in Organic Letters
19. structures were reported in Z. Anorg. Allg. Chem. 20. structures were reported in Acta Crystallogr. Sect. B 
21. structures were reported in Tetrahedron   structures were reported as Private Communication to the CSD
22. structures were reported in J. Mol. Struct. 23. structures were reported in Tetrahedron Lett. 24. structures were reported in Eur. J. Org. Chem. 25. structures were reported in New Journal of Chemistry

These 25 journals account for 704,541 of the 996,193 or 70.7% of the structures in the CSD. These data show that most structures are determined by X-ray diffraction, with less than 1% of structures being determined by neutron diffraction or powder diffraction. The number of error-free coordinates were taken as a percentage of structures for which 3D coordinates are present in the CSD. The significance of the structure factor files, mentioned above, is that, for CSD structures determined by X-ray diffraction that have a structure file, a crystallographer can verify the interpretation of the observed measurements. Growth trend
Historically, the number of structures in the CSD has grown at an approximately exponential rate passing the 25,000 structures milestone in 1977, the 50,000 structures milestone in 1983, the 125,000 structures milestone in 1992, the 250,000 structures milestone in 2001, the 500,000 structures milestone in 2009, and the 1,000,000 structures milestone on June 8, 2019. The one millionth structure added to CSD is the crystal structure of 1-(7,9-diacetyl-11-methyl-6H-azepino[1,2-a]indol-6-yl)propan-2-one. Note: data for 1923-1964 are aggregated together in the last line of the table. File format

The primary file format for CSD structure deposition, adopted around 1991, is the "Crystallographic Information file" format, CIF. The deposited CSD files can be downloaded in the CIF format. The validated and curated CSD files can be exported in a wide range of formats, including CIF, MOL, Mol2, PDB, SHELX and XMol, using tools in the CSD System. The CCDC uses two different codes to distinguish between the deposited dataset and the curated CSD entry. For example, one specific ‘CSD Communication’ of an organic molecule was deposited with the CCDC and assigned the deposition number 'CCDC-991327.'  This allows free public access to the data as deposited. From the deposited data, selected information is extracted to prepare the validated and curated CSD entry which was assigned the refcode 'MITGUT'. As a part of the curation process, CCDC also applies an algorithm, DeCIFer, to help the editors assign chemistry to structures when those representations (e.g. bond types and charge assignments etc.) are missing from the original CIF files submitted. The validated and curated entry is included in the CSD System and WebCSD distributions, with availability restricted to those making appropriate contributions. Viewing the data

Each data set in CSD can be openly viewed and retrieved using the free Access Structure service. Through this web-browser based service, users can view the data set in 2D and 3D, obtain some basic information about the structure, and download the deposited data set. More advanced search functions and curated information are available through the subscription based CSD system. Besides using the CSD system, the structure files may be viewed using one of several open source computer programs such as Jmol. Some other free, but not open source programs include MDL Chime, Pymol, UCSF Chimera, Rasmol, WINGX, the CCDC provides a free version of its visualization program Mercury. Starting from 2015, Mercury from CCDC also provides the functionality to generate 3D print ready file from structures in CSD. See also 
 Crystallographic database
 Mercury
 Protein structure

References

External links 
 The Cambridge Crystallographic Data Centre (CCDC) — parent site to CSD

Biological databases
Chemical databases
Chemical industry in the United Kingdom
Crystallographic databases
Databases in the United Kingdom
Science and technology in Cambridgeshire