[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: crystal structure protein drug target binding | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: crystal structure protein drug target binding]

34. PLoS One. 2018 Mar 15;13(3):e0193602. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0193602. 
eCollection 2018.

The crystal structure of the Leishmania infantum Silent Information Regulator 2 
related protein 1: Implications to protein function and drug design.

Ronin C(1), Costa DM(2)(3), Tavares J(2)(3), Faria J(2)(3), Ciesielski F(1), 
Ciapetti P(1), Smith TK(4), MacDougall J(5), Cordeiro-da-Silva A(2)(3)(6), 
Pemberton IK(5).

Author information:
(1)NovAliX - Bioparc, Bd Sébastien Brant, Illkirch, France.
(2)i3S-Instituto de Investigação e Inovação em Saúde, Universidade do Porto, 
Porto, Portugal.
(3)IBMC-, Instituto de Biologia Molecular e Celular da Universidade do Porto, 
Porto, Portuga.
(4)BSRC, School of Biology, University of St Andrews, St Andrews, Scotland.
(5)Photeomix, IP Research Consulting, Noisy Le Grand, France.
(6)Departamento de Ciências Biológicas, Faculdade de Farmácia, Universidade do 
Porto, Porto, Portugal.

The de novo crystal structure of the Leishmania infantum Silent Information 
Regulator 2 related protein 1 (LiSir2rp1) has been solved at 1.99Å in complex 
with an acetyl-lysine peptide substrate. The structure is broadly commensurate 
with Hst2/SIRT2 proteins of yeast and human origin, reproducing many of the 
structural features common to these sirtuin deacetylases, including the 
characteristic small zinc-binding domain, and the larger Rossmann-fold domain 
involved in NAD+-binding interactions. The two domains are linked via a cofactor 
binding loop ordered in open conformation. The peptide substrate binds to the 
LiSir2rp1 protein via a cleft formed between the small and large domains, with 
the acetyl-lysine side chain inserting further into the resultant hydrophobic 
tunnel. Crystals were obtained only with recombinant LiSir2rp1 possessing an 
extensive internal deletion of a proteolytically-sensitive region unique to the 
sirtuins of kinetoplastid origin. Deletion of 51 internal amino acids 
(P253-E303) from LiSir2rp1 did not appear to alter peptide substrate 
interactions in deacetylation assays, but was indispensable to obtain crystals. 
Removal of this potentially flexible region, that otherwise extends from the 
classical structural elements of the Rossmann-fold, specifically the β8-β9 
connector, appears to result in lower accumulation of the protein when expressed 
from episomal vectors in L. infantum SIR2rp1 single knockout promastigotes. The 
biological function of the large serine-rich insertion in 
kinetoplastid/trypanosomatid sirtuins, highlighted as a disordered region with 
strong potential for post-translational modification, remains unknown but may 
confer additional cellular functions that are distinct from their human 
counterparts. These unique molecular features, along with the resolution of the 
first kinetoplastid sirtuin deacetylase structure, present novel opportunities 
for drug design against a protein target previously established as essential to 
parasite survival and proliferation.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0193602
PMCID: PMC5854310
PMID: 29543820 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: I have read the journal’s 
policy and the authors of this manuscript have the following competing 
interests: CR, FC and PC are employees of NovAlix (France). JM and IKP are 
employees of Photeomix (France).