[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: low-level laser therapy wound healing pain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: low-level laser therapy wound healing pain]

72. Prog Biophys Mol Biol. 2019 Aug;145:10-18. doi: 
10.1016/j.pbiomolbio.2018.11.010. Epub 2018 Nov 27.

Low level laser therapy (LLLT) modulates ovarian function in mature female mice.

Oubiña G(1), Pascuali N(1), Scotti L(1), Di Pietro M(1), La Spina FA(1), Buffone 
MG(1), Higuera J(2), Abramovich D(1), Parborell F(3).

Author information:
(1)Instituto de Biología y Medicina Experimental (IByME) - CONICET, Buenos 
Aires, Argentina.
(2)Higuera Dental Practice, Buenos Aires, Argentina.
(3)Instituto de Biología y Medicina Experimental (IByME) - CONICET, Buenos 
Aires, Argentina. Electronic address: fernandap@ibyme.conicet.gov.ar.

It is known that LLLT has beneficial effects on several pathological conditions 
including wound healing, pain and inflammation. LLLT modulates biological 
processes, including cell proliferation, apoptosis and angiogenesis. In the 
present study, we examined the effect of local application of LLLT on follicular 
dynamics, ovarian reserve, AMH expression, progesterone levels, apoptosis, 
angiogenesis, and reproductive outcome in adult mice. LLLT (200 J/cm2) increased 
the percentage of primary and preantral follicles, whilst decreasing the 
percentage of corpora lutea compared to control ovaries. LLLT-treated ovaries 
did not exhibit any changes regarding the number of primordial follicles. We 
observed a higher percentage of AMH-positive follicles (in early stages of 
development) in LLLT-treated ovaries compared to control ovaries. LLLT reduced 
the P4 concentration and the apoptosis in early antral follicles compared to 
control ones. LLLT caused a reduction in the endothelial cell area and an 
increase in the periendothelial cell area in the ovary. Additionally, LLLT was 
able to improve oocyte quality. Our findings suggest that local application of 
LLLT modulates follicular dynamics by regulating apoptosis and the vascular 
stability in mouse ovary. In conclusion, these data indicate that LLLT might 
become a novel and useful tool in the treatment of several pathologies, 
including female reproductive disorders.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pbiomolbio.2018.11.010
PMID: 30500339 [Indexed for MEDLINE]