[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: biomaterial implant osseointegration titanium clin | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: biomaterial implant osseointegration titanium clinical]

72. J Periodontol. 1999 Dec;70(12):1523-39. doi: 10.1902/jop.1999.70.12.1523.

A comparison of endosseous dental implant surfaces.

Cochran DL(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Periodontics, Dental School, The University of Texas Health 
Science Center at San Antonio, 78284-7894, USA. cochran@uthscsa.edu

Endosseous dental implants are available with various surface characteristics 
ranging from relatively smooth machined surfaces to more roughened surfaces 
created by coatings, blasting by various substances, by acid treatments, or by 
combinations of the treatments. Studies characterizing these implants and 
surfaces include in vitro experimentation, animal studies, and human clinical 
trials. Both descriptive and functional testing of the bone-implant interface 
includes histomorphometrics and biomechanical testing such as torque removal 
values and push out/pull out strength. Using these assays to evaluate and 
compare different surfaces, the data demonstrate that rough implant surfaces 
have increased bone-to-implant contact and require greater forces to break the 
bone-implant interface compared to more smooth surfaces. The objective of this 
report was to evaluate publications of human clinical experiences evaluating 
implant use in patients and to determine if differences existed in success rates 
of implants with relatively smooth surfaces compared to implants having 
roughened implant surfaces. Human trials were reviewed to determine the clinical 
efficacy of implants under various clinical indications. Synopsis tables were 
constructed and the experiences segregated by implant surface characteristics. 
Meta-analyses were performed on all implants in all locations, on implants 
placed only in the maxilla or the mandible, and, finally, on implants placed in 
the maxilla compared to implants placed in the mandible. Evaluation of the data 
revealed that predictably high success rates can be achieved for implants with 
both rough and smooth titanium surfaces and for hydroxyapatite-coated implants. 
When studies were clustered by specific indications or patient populations, 
rough surfaced implants had significantly higher success rates compared to 
implants with more smooth surfaces except in the case of single tooth 
replacements where the success rates were comparable. In general, implants 
placed in the mandible had significantly higher success rates than implants 
placed in the maxilla. However, in the partially edentulous patient group, 
titanium implants with a rough surface had significantly higher success rates in 
the maxilla compared to the mandible and, in cases of single tooth replacement, 
success rates were similar in the maxilla and in the mandible as was the case 
for hydroxyapatite-coated implants. The documented advantage of implants with a 
roughened surface in animal and in vitro experiments has been demonstrated in 
clinical cases when studies were compared in which specific indications or 
patients were treated. Additionally, implants placed in the mandible have, in 
general, higher success rates than implants placed in the maxilla, with only a 
few exceptions noted. These data from human clinical experiences support the 
documented advantage of implants with a roughened surface in animal and in vitro 
experimentation and indicate that the magnitude of the advantage is significant 
for patient care.

DOI: 10.1902/jop.1999.70.12.1523
PMID: 10632528 [Indexed for MEDLINE]