[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: magnetic resonance spectroscopy metabolite brain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: magnetic resonance spectroscopy metabolite brain]

51. Med Phys. 2023 Dec;50(12):7955-7966. doi: 10.1002/mp.16831. Epub 2023 Nov 10.

Denoising magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) data using stacked autoencoder 
for improving signal-to-noise ratio and speed of MRS.

Wang J(1), Ji B(2), Lei Y(1), Liu T(3), Mao H(2), Yang X(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology and Winship Cancer Institute, Emory 
University, Atlanta, USA.
(2)Department of Radiology and Imaging Science and Winship Cancer Institute, 
Emory University, Atlanta, USA.
(3)Department of Radiation Oncology, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, 
New York, USA.

Update of
    ArXiv. 2023 Mar 29:arXiv:2303.16503v1.

BACKGROUND: While magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) provides high resolution 
anatomical images with sharp soft tissue contrast, magnetic resonance 
spectroscopy (MRS) enables non-invasive detection and measurement of 
biochemicals and metabolites. However, MRS has low signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) 
when concentrations of metabolites are in the range of millimolar. Standard 
approach of using a high number of signal averaging (NSA) to achieve sufficient 
SNR comes at the cost of a long acquisition time.
PURPOSE: We propose to use deep-learning approaches to denoise MRS data without 
increasing NSA. This method has potential to reduce the acquisition time as well 
as improve SNR and quality of spectra, which could enhance the diagnostic value 
and broaden the clinical applications of MRS.
METHODS: The study was conducted using data collected from the brain 
spectroscopy phantom and human subjects. We utilized a stack auto-encoder (SAE) 
network to train deep learning models for denoising low NSA data (NSA = 1, 2, 4, 
8, and 16) randomly truncated from high SNR data collected with high NSA 
(NSA = 192), which were also used to obtain the ground truth. We applied both 
self-supervised and fully-supervised training approaches and compared their 
performance of denoising low NSA data based on improvement in SNR. To prevent 
overfitting, the SAE network was trained in a patch-based manner. We then tested 
the denoising methods on noise-containing data collected from the phantom and 
human subjects, including data from brain tumor patients. We evaluated their 
performance by comparing the SNR levels and mean squared errors (MSEs) 
calculated for the whole spectra against high SNR "ground truth", as well as the 
value of chemical shift of N-acetyl-aspartate (NAA) before and after denoising.
RESULTS: With the SAE model, the SNR of low NSA data (NSA = 1) obtained from the 
phantom increased by 28.5% and the MSE decreased by 42.9%. For low NSA data of 
the human parietal and temporal lobes, the SNR increased by 32.9% and the MSE 
decreased by 63.1%. In all cases, the chemical shift of NAA in the denoised 
spectra closely matched with the high SNR spectra without significant distortion 
to the spectra after denoising. Furthermore, the denoising performance of the 
SAE model was more effective in denoising spectra with higher noise levels.
CONCLUSIONS: The reported SAE denoising method is a model-free approach to 
enhance the SNR of MRS data collected with low NSA. With the denoising 
capability, it is possible to acquire MRS data with a few NSA, shortening the 
scan time while maintaining adequate spectroscopic information for detecting and 
quantifying the metabolites of interest. This approach has the potential to 
improve the efficiency and effectiveness of clinical MRS data acquisition by 
reducing the scan time and increasing the quality of spectroscopic data.

© 2023 American Association of Physicists in Medicine.

DOI: 10.1002/mp.16831
PMCID: PMC10872746
PMID: 37947479 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICT OF INTEREST The authors have no 
conflicts to disclose.