[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS neurology | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS neurology]

49. Acta Neurol Scand. 2018 Feb;137(2):158-164. doi: 10.1111/ane.12852. Epub 2017
 Oct 3.

Transcranial magnetic stimulation studies in complex regional pain syndrome type 
I: A review.

Nardone R(1)(2)(3), Brigo F(1)(4), Höller Y(2), Sebastianelli L(5), Versace 
V(5), Saltuari L(5)(6), Lochner P(7), Trinka E(2)(3)(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Franz Tappeiner Hospital, Merano, Italy.
(2)Department of Neurology, Christian Doppler Medical Centre and Centre for 
Cognitive Neuroscience, Paracelsus Medical University, Salzburg, Austria.
(3)Spinal Cord Injury and Tissue Regeneration Center, Salzburg, Austria.
(4)Department of Neuroscience, Biomedicine and Movement Science, University of 
Verona, Verona, Italy.
(5)Department of Neurorehabilitation, Hospital of Vipiteno, and Research 
Department for Neurorehabilitation South Tyrol, Bolzano, Italy.
(6)Department of Neurology, Hochzirl Hospital, Zirl, Austria.
(7)Department of Neurology, Saarland University Medical Center, Homburg, 
Germany.
(8)University for Medical Informatics and Health Technology, UMIT, Hall in 
Tirol, Austria.

The sensory and motor cortical representation corresponding to the affected limb 
is altered in patients with complex regional pain syndrome (CRPS). Transcranial 
magnetic stimulation (TMS) represents a useful non-invasive approach for 
studying cortical physiology. If delivered repetitively, TMS can also modulate 
cortical excitability and induce long-lasting neuroplastic changes. In this 
review, we performed a systematic search of all studies using TMS to explore 
cortical excitability/plasticity and repetitive TMS (rTMS) for the treatment of 
CRPS. Literature searches were conducted using PubMed and EMBASE. We identified 
8 articles matching the inclusion criteria. One hundred fourteen patients (76 
females and 38 males) were included in these studies. Most of them have applied 
TMS in order to physiologically characterize CRPS type I. Changes in motor 
cortex excitability and brain mapping have been reported in CRPS-I patients. 
Sensory and motor hyperexcitability are in the most studies bilateral and likely 
involve corresponding regions within the central nervous system rather than the 
entire hemisphere. Conversely, sensorimotor integration and plasticity were 
found to be normal in CRPS-I. TMS examinations also revealed that the nature of 
motor dysfunction in CRPS-I patients differs from that observed in patients with 
functional movement disorders, limb immobilization, or idiopathic dystonia. TMS 
studies may thus lead to the implementation of correct rehabilitation strategies 
in CRPS-I patients. Two studies have begun to therapeutically use rTMS. This 
non-invasive brain stimulation technique could have therapeutic utility in CRPS, 
but further well-designed studies are needed to corroborate initial findings.

© 2017 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/ane.12852
PMID: 28971481 [Indexed for MEDLINE]