[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: biomaterial implant osseointegration titanium clin | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: biomaterial implant osseointegration titanium clinical]

99. Int J Nanomedicine. 2022 Oct 11;17:4773-4790. doi: 10.2147/IJN.S378387. 
eCollection 2022.

Multidynamic Osteogenic Differentiation by Effective Polydopamine Micro-Arc 
Oxide Manipulations.

Zhou Y(#)(1), Wang G(#)(2), Wang T(1), Wang J(3), Wen X(3), Sun H(1), Yu L(1), 
Liu X(4), Zhang J(1), Zhou Q(3), Sun Y(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Stomatology, Weifang Medical University, Weifang, People's Republic 
of China.
(2)Department of Prosthodontics, Ninth People's Hospital, Shanghai Jiaotong 
University School of Medicine, College of Stomatology, Shanghai Jiao Tong 
University, National Center for Stomatology, National Clinical Research Center 
for Oral Diseases, Shanghai Key Laboratory of Stomatology, Shanghai, People's 
Republic of China.
(3)Department of Oral Surgery, Ninth People's Hospital, Shanghai Jiaotong 
University School of Medicine, College of Stomatology, Shanghai Jiao Tong 
University, National Center for Stomatology, National Clinical Research Center 
for Oral Diseases, Shanghai Key Laboratory of Stomatology, Shanghai, People's 
Republic of China.
(4)School of Bioscience and Technology, Weifang Medical University, Weifang, 
People's Republic of China.
(#)Contributed equally

INTRODUCTION: The nanostructural modification of the oral implant surface can 
effectively mimic the morphology of natural bone tissue, allowing osteoblasts to 
achieve both proliferation and differentiation capabilities at the bone 
interface of the dental implant. To improve the osteoinductive activity on the 
surface of titanium implants for rapid osseointegration, we prepared a novel 
composite coating (MAO-PDA-NC) by micro-arc oxidation technique and immersion 
method and evaluated the proliferation, adhesion, and osteogenic differentiation 
of osteoblasts on this coating.
METHODS: The coatings were prepared by micro-arc oxidation (MAO) technique and 
immersion method, and characterized by scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and 
atomic force microscopy (AFM) for different coatings; the loading of PDA was 
examined using Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR); the ion release 
capacity of the coatings was determined by inductively coupled plasma emission 
spectrometry (ICP-OES); the interfacial bonding of the coatings was examined 
using nanoscratch experiment strength. The cytotoxicity of the coating was 
examined by live/dead staining kit; cell proliferation viability was examined by 
CCK-8 kit; adhesion and osteogenic effect of the coating were examined by 
immunofluorescence staining and RT-PCR; osteogenic differentiation was examined 
by alkaline phosphatase staining.
RESULTS: The surface morphology of titanium implants was modified by micro-arc 
oxidation technology, and a new MAO-PDA-NC composite coating was successfully 
prepared. The results showed that the MAO-PDA-NC coating not only optimized the 
physical and chemical properties of the titanium implant surface but also 
significantly stimulated the biological properties of osteoblast adhesion, 
proliferation, and osteogenic differentiation on the coating surface.
CONCLUSION: These results show that MAO-PDA-NC composite coating can 
significantly improve the surface properties of titanium implants and achieve a 
stable bond between implant and bone tissue, thus accelerating early 
osseointegration.

© 2022 Zhou et al.

DOI: 10.2147/IJN.S378387
PMCID: PMC9553511
PMID: 36246934 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors report no conflicts of interest in 
this work.