[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: The Herbalist — Meyer | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# The Herbalist — Meyer — Overview

the corner, was the last tenant, with a little bottle clasped firmly in his hand, and his face--well!" As the little old man concluded he looked round on the attentive faces of his wondering auditory with a smile of grim delight. "What strange things these are you tell us of, sir," said Mr. Pickwick, minutely scanning the old man's countenance by the aid of his glasses. "Strange!" said the little old man. "Nonsense; you think them strange
   because you know nothing about it. They are funny, but not uncommon."

   "Funny!" exclaimed Mr. Pickwick, involuntarily. "Yes, funny, are they not?" replied the little old man, with a
   diabolical leer; and then, without pausing for an answer, he
   continued,--

   "I knew another man--let me see--forty years ago now--who took an old,
   damp, rotten set of chambers in one of the most ancient Inns, that had
   been shut up and empty for years and years before. There were lots of
   old women's stories about the place, and it certainly was very far
   from being a cheerful one; but he was poor, and the rooms were cheap,
   and that would have been quite a sufficient reason for him, if they
   had been ten times worse than they really were. He was obliged to
   take some mouldering fixtures that were on the place, and, among the
   rest, was a great lumbering wooden press for papers, with large glass
   doors, and a green curtain inside; a pretty useless thing for him, for
   he had no papers to put in it; and as to his clothes, he carried them
   about with him, and that wasn't very hard work either. Well, he had
   moved in all his furniture--it wasn't quite a truck-full--and had
   sprinkled it about the room, so as to make the four chairs look as
   much like a dozen as possible, and was sitting down before the fire at
   night, drinking the first glass of two gallons of whisky he had
   ordered on credit, wondering whether it would ever be paid for, and if
   so, in how many years' time, when his eyes encountered the glass doors
   of the wooden press. 'Ah,' says he, 'if I hadn't been obliged to take
   that ugly article at the old broker's valuation I might have got
   something comfortable for the money. I'll tell you what it is, old
   fellow,' he said, speaking aloud to the press, having nothing else to
   speak to, 'if it wouldn't cost more to break up your old carcase than
   it would ever be worth afterwards, I'd have a fire out of you in less
   than no time.'  He had hardly spoken the words when a sound,
   resembling a faint groan, appeared to issue from the interior of the
   case. It startled him at first, but thinking, on a moment's
   reflection, that it must be some young fellow in the next chamber, who
   had been dining out, he put his feet on the fender, and raised the
   poker to stir the fire. At that moment the sound was repeated, and
   one of the glass doors slowly opening disclosed a pale and emaciated
   figure in soiled and worn apparel standing erect in the press. The
   figure was tall and thin, and the countenance expressive of care and
   anxiety; but there was something in the hue of the skin, and gaunt and
   unearthly appearance of the whole form, which no being of this world
   was ever seen to wear. 'Who are you?' said the new tenant, turning
   very pale, poising the poker in his hand, however, and taking a very
   decent aim at the countenance of the figure. 'Who are you?'  'Don't
   throw that poker at me,' replied the form. 'If you hurled it with
   ever so sure an aim, it would pass through me without resistance, and
   expend its force on the wood behind. I am a spirit.'  'And, pray,
   what do you want here?' faltered the tenant. 'In this room,' replied
   the apparition, 'my worldly ruin was worked, and I and my children
   beggared. In this press the papers in a long, long suit, which
   accumulated for years, were deposited. In this room, when I had died
   of grief and long-deferred hope, two wily harpies divided the wealth
   for which I had contested during a wretched existence, and of which,
   at last, not one farthing was left for my unhappy descendants. I
   terrified them from the spot, and since that day have prowled by
   night--the only period at which I can re-visit the earth--about the
   scenes of my long-protracted misery. This apartment is mine; leave it
   to me.'  'If you insist on making your appearance here,' said the
   tenant, who had time to collect his presence of mind during this prosy
   statement of the ghost's, 'I shall give up possession with the
   greatest pleasure; but I should like to ask you one question, if you
   will allow me.'  'Say on,' said the apparition, sternly. 'Well,' said
   the tenant, 'I don't apply the observation personally to you, because
   it is equally applicable to most of the ghosts I ever heard of; but it
   does appear to me somewhat inconsistent that when you have an
   opportunity of visiting the fairest spots of earth--for I suppose
   space is nothing to you--you should always return exactly to the very
   places where you have been most miserable.'  'Egad, that's very true;
   I never thought of that before,' said the ghost.