[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: magnetic nanoparticle hyperthermia cancer therapy | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: magnetic nanoparticle hyperthermia cancer therapy]

1. Life Sci. 2023 Jun 15;323:121714. doi: 10.1016/j.lfs.2023.121714. Epub 2023
Apr  21.

Magnetic nanoparticle-based hyperthermia: A prospect in cancer stem cell 
tracking and therapy.

Montazersaheb P(1), Pishgahzadeh E(2), Jahani VB(3), Farahzadi R(4), 
Montazersaheb S(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Materials Engineering, Institute of Mechanical Engineering, 
University of Tabriz, Tabriz, Iran.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutical Biotechnology, School of Pharmacy, Shahid 
Beheshti University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(3)School of Metallurgy and Materials Engineering, Iran University of Science 
and Technology (IUST), Narmak, Tehran, Iran.
(4)Hematology and Oncology Research Center, Tabriz University of Medical 
Sciences, Tabriz, Iran. Electronic address: farahzadir@tbzmed.ac.ir.
(5)Molecular Medicine Research Center, Tabriz University of Medical Sciences, 
Tabriz, Iran. Electronic address: montazersahebs@tbzmed.ac.ir.

Tumor heterogeneity is a major problem in cancer treatment. Cancer stem cells 
(CSCs) are a subpopulation of tumor masses that produce proliferating and 
quiescent cells. Under stress-related conditions, quiescent cells are capable of 
repopulating tumor masses. Consequently, many attempts have been made to 
identify, isolate, and eradicate CSCs from various tumors. Research has found 
that quiescent CSCs are less susceptible to conventional therapy than bulk 
cancer cells. This could be due to reduced cell cycling and increased DNA repair 
capacity of these cells. Indeed, disease progression is temporarily suppressed 
by eliminating fast-proliferating tumor cells and sparing quiescent CSCs lead to 
cancer relapse. Among all the available therapeutic modalities for cancer 
treatment, hyperthermia uses moderate heat to kill tumor cells. 
Nanoparticle-based platforms have the potential to deposit heat locally and 
selectively with the simultaneous activation of nanoparticles as heat 
transducers. Over the past few decades, magnetic nanoparticles (MNPs) have been 
widely investigated in the biomedical field. Magnetic hyperthermia therapy (MHT) 
is a promising therapeutic approach in which MNPs are delivered directly through 
targeting (systemic) or by direct injection into a tumor under exposure to an 
alternating magnetic field (AMF). Heat is generated by the MNPs subjected to AMF 
at a frequency of 100 kHz. Despite the widespread use of MHT alone or in 
combination therapies, its effectiveness in targeting CSCs remains unclear. This 
review discusses various types of MHT and their related mechanisms in cancer 
therapy, particularly concerning the eradication of CSCs.

Copyright © 2023 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.lfs.2023.121714
PMID: 37088411 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no conflicts of interest.