[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: Outline of relationships | Type: Instruction-QA | Level: Graduate]

Question: Provide a comprehensive expert-level explanation of Outline of relationships in the context of Applied Sciences.

Answer:
The following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to interpersonal relationships.

Interpersonal relationship – association between two or more people; this association may be based on limerence, love, solidarity, regular business interactions, or some other type of social commitment. Interpersonal relationships are formed in the context of social, cultural, and other influences.

Essence of relationships 

 Social relations – relationship between two (i.e. a dyad), three (i.e. a triad) or more individuals (i.e. members of a social group). Social relations, derived from individual agency, form the basis of social structure.
 Social actions – acts which take into account the actions and reactions of individuals (or 'agents').  According to Max Weber, "an action is 'social' if the acting individual takes account of the behavior of others and is thereby oriented in its course" .

Types of relationships

Membership in a social group 

Social group – consists of two or more humans who interact with one another, share similar characteristics and collectively have a sense of unity. By this definition, a society can be viewed as a large group, though most social groups are considerably smaller.
 Dyad – group of two people. "Dyadic" is an adjective used to describe this type of communication/interaction. A dyad is the smallest possible social group.
 Triad – group of three people. They are more stable than a dyad. Reduces intense interaction and is based less on personal attachments and more on formal rules and regulations.

Household membership 

Household — one or more persons who share main residence, and share meals or living space
 Single person
 Family
 Single parent
 Nuclear family (immediate family)
 Spouse
 Husband
 Wife
 Parent
 Father
 Mother
 Step-father
 Step-mother
 Legal guardian
 Child
 Son
 Daughter
 Step-son
 Step-daughter
  Sibling
 Brother
 Sister
 Stepfamily
 Extended family
 Grandparent
 Grandfather
 Grandmother
 Grandson
 Granddaughter
 Uncle
 Aunt
 Cousin
 Nephew
 Niece
 Family-in-law
 Father-in-law
 Mother-in-law
 Brother-in-law
 Sister-in-law
 Kinship
 Consanguinity
 Affinity
 Fictive kinship
 Relation change
 Marriage
 Adoption
 Relation end
 Breakup
 Divorced
 Disownment
 Emancipation
 Widowhood
 Household aspects
 Caregiver
 Gender roles
 Household economics
 Breadwinner model

Peer group membership 
Peer group
 Special interest group –
 Pen pals –

Organization membership 
An organization is a social group which distributes tasks for a collective goal. There are a variety of legal types of organizations, including:

 Corporations –
 Governments –
 Non-governmental organizations –
 International organizations –
 Armed forces –
 Charitable organizations –
 Not-for-profit corporations –
 Partnerships –
 Cooperatives –
 Universities –

Community membership 

Community
 Citizenship – membership in a country or nation.
 Neighbor – member of a neighborhood.
 Member of society – a society is a body of individuals outlined by the bounds of functional interdependence, possibly comprising characteristics such as national or cultural identity, social solidarity, language, or hierarchical organization.

Intimate relationships 

Intimate relationship
 Cohabitation – living together without being married.
 Committed relationship – interpersonal relationship based upon a mutually agreed-upon commitment to one another involving exclusivity, honesty, trust or some other agreed-upon behavior. The term is most commonly used with informal relationships, such as "going steady", but may encompass any relationship where an expressed commitment is involved.
 Close friendship – being close friends
 Courtship
 Long-term relationship (LT —R)
 Monogamy – having a single long-term partner or marriage to one person.
 Polyamory – having multiple long-term lovers and/or partners.
 Polygamy – marriage to multiple partners.
 Polyandry – the marriage of a woman to multiple men.
 Polygyny –  the marriage of a man to multiple women.
 Polygynandry – the marriage of multiple men to multiple women.
 Free union
 Engagement or betrothal; the period of time between a marriage proposal and the marriage itself, sometimes accompanied by the formal Church announcement of the intent to marry known as banns.
 Marriage
 Marriage partners
 Husband
 Wife
 Types of marriage
 Arranged marriage
 Forced marriage
 Cousin marriage
 Open marriage
 Civil union
 Domestic partnership
 Boyfriend
 Girlfriend
 Familial relationship – relationship between members of a family. Family members tend to form close personal relationships.  See family section above.
 Friendship
 Extramarital affair
 Love–hate relationship
 Romantic friendship
 Relationship anarchy
 Casual relationship
 Female-led relationship – woman or wife led relationship (FLR)

Business and professional relationships 

 Employer-worker relationship
 Employer and employee
 Coworker 
 Contractor
 Customer
 Landlord and tenant

Other types of relationships 
 Conservatorship
 Enemy
 Frenemy – a person with whom an individual maintains a friendly interaction despite underlying conflict, possibly encompassing rivalry, mistrust, jealousy or competition.
 Godparents
 Mentorship
 Neighbor

Relations (relationship activities) 

 Conflict resolution –
 Human bonding –
 Interpersonal communication –
 Personal relationship skills –
 Relationship education –
 Social rejection –
 Wedding –

Relationship formation 

Human mating is the process whereby an individual seeks out another individual with the intention of forming a long-term intimate relationship or marriage, but sometimes for casual relationship or friendship.

 Personal advertisement –
 Meet market –
 Flirting –
 Pick-up line –
 Singles event  –
 Courtship –
 Dating –
 Internet dating –
 Going Dutch –
 Endogamy – the practice of marrying within a specific ethnic group, class, or social group, rejecting all others; in contrast to exogamy.
 Hypergamy – act or practice of seeking a spouse of higher socioec