[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: biomaterial implant osseointegration titanium clin | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: biomaterial implant osseointegration titanium clinical]

40. Periodontol 2000. 2025 Feb;97(1):271-286. doi: 10.1111/prd.12563. Epub 2024
Apr  22.

Impact of autologous platelet concentrates on the osseointegration of dental 
implants.

Ivanovski S(1), Lee RSB(1), Fernandez-Medina T(1)(2), Pinto N(3), Andrade C(3), 
Quirynen M(4).

Author information:
(1)School of Dentistry, Centre for Orofacial Regeneration, Reconstruction and 
Rehabilitation (COR3), The University of Queensland, Brisbane, Australia.
(2)College of Medicine and Dentistry, James Cook University, Cairns, Australia.
(3)Department of Periodontology and Implantology, Faculty of Dentistry, 
Universidad de Los Andes, Santiago, Chile.
(4)Department of Oral Health Sciences, Katholieke Universiteit Leuven 
(Periodontology), University Hospitals Leuven, Leuven, Belgium.

Osseointegration is defined as the direct deposition of bone onto biomaterial 
devices, most commonly composed from titanium, for the purpose of anchoring 
dental prostheses. The use of autologous platelet concentrates (APC) has the 
potential to enhance this process by modifying the interface between the host 
and the surface of the titanium implant. The rationale is to modify the implant 
surface and implant-bone interface via "biomimicry," a process whereby the 
deposition of the host's own proteins and extracellular matrix enhances the 
biocompatibility of the implant and hence accelerates the osteogenic healing 
process. This review of the available evidence reporting on the effect of APC on 
osseointegration explores in vitro laboratory studies of the interaction of APC 
with different implant surfaces, as well as the in vivo and clinical effects of 
APC on osseointegration in animal and human studies. The inherent variability 
associated with using autologous products, namely the unique composition of each 
individual's blood plasma, as well as the great variety in APC protocols, 
combination of biomaterials, and clinical/therapeutic application, makes it is 
difficult to make any firm conclusions about the in vivo and clinical effects of 
APC on osseointegration. The available evidence suggests that the clinical 
benefits of adding PRP and the liquid form of L-PRF (liquid fibrinogen) to any 
implant surface appear to be limited. The application of L-PRF membranes in the 
osteotomy site, however, may produce positive clinical effects at the early 
stage of healing (up to 6 weeks), by promoting early implant stability and 
reducing marginal bone loss, although no positive longer term effects were 
observed. Careful interpretation and cautious conclusions should be drawn from 
these findings as there were various limitations in methodology. Future studies 
should focus on better understanding of the influence of APCs on the biomaterial 
surface and designing controlled preclinical and clinical studies using 
standardized APC preparation and application protocols.

© 2024 The Authors. Periodontology 2000 published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/prd.12563
PMCID: PMC11808427
PMID: 38647020 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: All (co)‐authors declare that they have no 
conflict of interest in relation to this paper, even though they might have 
received research support from different implant companies including Camlog, 
Dentsply Sirona, Straumann, Henry Schein, Giestlich, and Straumann.