[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: National Solidarity (Peru) | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# National Solidarity (Peru) — Overview

Unity and the Peruvian Aprista Party formed the main opposition caucuses in the Peruvian Congress. At municipal level, the coalition succeeded in launching National Solidarity leader Luis Castañeda Lossio for the mayorship of Lima, which ended up defeating incumbent mayor Alberto Andrade of We Are Peru who is a former member of the Christian People's Party, and winning the capital with 39.9% of the popular vote. During his first term, Castañeda carried out successful public works such as the Metropolitano bus system, the Solidarity hospitals, the Magic Water Circuit, the solidarity stairs and the expansion of the Evitamiento road. At the 2006 municipal election, the coalition selected the incumbent Castañeda for reelection, easily winning a plurality of votes with 47.8% of the popular vote. During Castañeda's second term, almost all the city council members were from National Solidarity. Last National Unity campaign (2005-06) and solo campaign (2010-11)
At the 2006 general election, the coalition nominated Lourdes Flores once again for the presidency, but ended up placing third again with 23.8% of the popular vote, failing to qualify for the run-off. Peruvian Aprista Party nominee and former President Alan García eventually won the election against nationalist Ollanta Humala. At congressional level, National Unity attained 17 representatives again, but coalition would formally dissolve in 2008. National Solidarity's representatives formed their own caucus for the rest of the term. In October 2010, Castañeda formally resigned as Mayor of Lima in order to run for the presidency at the 2011 general election, under the National Solidarity Alliance. For the first months of the campaign, Castañeda polled in first place, but his support would eventually decline as more revelations on alleged corruption during his mayoral term appeared. The alliance once again placed fifth with 9.8% of the popular vote, and attained 9 congressional representatives (with the majority from National Solidarity). Likewise, National Solidarity joined forces with Union for Peru (UPP) "for the 2011 elections, where José Vega, general secretary of that party, appears with the number 7 for Lima."  Other parliamentary candidacies were those of “David Waisman (number 5 on the SN list for Lima), Heriberto Benítez (head of the SN list in Ancash) and Gustavo Pacheco (number 23 in Lima), old acquaintances of Peruvian politics, who they make their debut as Castañeda collaborators ”. Ollanta Humala won the presidency against Keiko Fujimori, with the latter receiving support from Castañeda in the run-off contest. In June 2011, Renzo Reggiardo resigned from the alliance and joined the caucus made up of the 4 APRA parliamentarians and Carlos Bruce. Later, Heríberto Benitez  also resigned from the alliance due to the criticism he received from his colleagues in the parliamentary group when the César Álvarez y la Centralita case broke out. During this term, the party took a more conservative stance in numerous bills, and ended up switching to the opposition in the final year, as the caucus votes were key in the vote of no confidence against Prime Minister Ana Jara in late-March 2015. Second Lima mayoralty under Castañeda (2015-2018)
National Solidarity under José Luna as Secretary-General, sought to convert National Solidarity from a cadre party to a mass party, for which he insisted on projecting the image of an emerging provincial to attract votes and connect with the most impoverished districts by encouraging the participation of adults and youth in National Solidarity activities and meetings. This shift succeeded in bringing back Castañeda to the office of Mayor of Lima, winning more than 50% of the popular vote in the 2014 municipal election. Although, during Castañeda's third term, more corruption allegations came to light, as the party was involved in Odebrecht scandal. Following the conclusion of his term as mayor, Castañeda decided against running for reelection, and tried to maintain a low profile. The party launched as its mayoral nominee Luis Castañeda Pardo, Castañeda's son, who attained 2.6% of the popular vote, placing ninth. Last years 
At the 2016 general election, National Solidarity sealed a alliance with Union for Peru in order to launch businessman Hernando Guerra García as the presidential nominee. A month before the election, Castañeda issued a statement in which he formally retired the party's presidential ticket and congressional lists, fearing the loss of the party registration as Hernando Guerra García polled lower than 1% throughout the entire campaign. Amid the investigations regarding the Odebrecht case in Peru, Castañeda and National Solidarity were put under scrutiny as the Public Ministry, as the former mayor was banned from leaving the country for the next eight months starting June 2019. Martin Bustamante, a former municipal operator, confessed that Castañeda received over 220,000 dollars from Odebrecht for his 2014 mayoral campaign.