[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: magnetic nanoparticle hyperthermia cancer therapy | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: magnetic nanoparticle hyperthermia cancer therapy]

12. Bull Cancer. 2017 May;104(5):452-461. doi: 10.1016/j.bulcan.2017.02.003. Epub
 2017 Apr 3.

A review on hyperthermia via nanoparticle-mediated therapy.

Sohail A(1), Ahmad Z(2), Bég OA(3), Arshad S(4), Sherin L(2).

Author information:
(1)COMSATS, institute of information technology, mathematics, 54000 Lahore, 
Pakistan. Electronic address: asohail@ciitlahore.edu.pk.
(2)COMSATS, institute of information technology, chemical engineering, Lahore, 
Pakistan.
(3)Fluid mechanics, bio-propulsion and nanosystems, aeronautical and mechanical 
engineering, department, university of Salford, Newton Building, UG17, M54WT 
Manchester, UK.
(4)COMSATS, institute of information technology, mathematics, 54000 Lahore, 
Pakistan.

Hyperthermia treatment, generated by magnetic nanoparticles (MNPs) is promising 
since it is tumour-focused, minimally invasive and uniform. The most unique 
feature of magnetic nanoparticles is its reaction and modulation by a magnetic 
force basically responsible for enabling its potential as heating mediators for 
cancer therapy. In magnetic nanoparticle hyperthermia, a tumour is 
preferentially loaded with systemically administered nanoparticles with 
high-absorption cross-section for transduction of an extrinsic energy source to 
heat. To maximize the energy deposited in the tumour while limiting the exposure 
to healthy tissues, the heating is achieved by exposing the region of tissue 
containing magnetic nanoparticles to an alternating magnetic field. The magnetic 
nanoparticles dissipate heat from relaxation losses thereby heating localized 
tissue above normal physiological ranges. Besides thermal efficiency, the 
biocompatibility of magnetite nanoparticles assisted its deployment as efficient 
drug carrier for targeted therapeutic regimes. In the present article, we 
provide a state-of-the-art review focused on progress in nanoparticle induced 
hyperthermia treatments that have several potential advantages over both global 
and local hyperthermia treatments achieved without nanoparticles. Green 
bio-nanotechnology has attracted substantial attention and has demonstrable 
abilities to improve cancer therapy. Furthermore, we have listed the challenges 
associated with this treatment along with future prospective that could attract 
the interest of biomedical engineers, biomaterials scientists, medical 
researchers and pharmacological research groups.

Copyright © 2017 Société Française du Cancer. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bulcan.2017.02.003
PMID: 28385267 [Indexed for MEDLINE]