[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: plant alkaloid biosynthesis pathway elucidation | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: plant alkaloid biosynthesis pathway elucidation]

51. Phytomedicine. 2024 Dec;135:156128. doi: 10.1016/j.phymed.2024.156128. Epub
2024  Oct 9.

Total alkaloids of Aconitum carmichaelii Debx alleviate cisplatin-induced acute 
renal injury by inhibiting inflammation and oxidative stress related to gut 
microbiota metabolism.

Yang X(1), Xin Y(1), Gu Y(1), Wang Y(1), Hu X(1), Ying G(2), Zhang Q(3), He 
X(4).

Author information:
(1)Zhejiang Provincial Key Laboratory of Traditional Chinese Medicine for 
Clinical Evaluation and Translational Research, Zhejiang Provincial Key 
Laboratory for Drug Evaluation and Clinical Research, Department of Clinical 
Pharmacy, the First Affiliated Hospital, Zhejiang University School of Medicine, 
Hangzhou, 310003, PR China.
(2)Department of Nephrology, The People's Hospital of Beilun District, The 
Branch Hospital of First Affiliated Hospital, Zhejiang University School of 
Medicine, Ningbo 315000, China. Electronic address: ying_guanghui@163.com.
(3)Zhejiang Provincial Key Laboratory of Traditional Chinese Medicine for 
Clinical Evaluation and Translational Research, Zhejiang Provincial Key 
Laboratory for Drug Evaluation and Clinical Research, Department of Clinical 
Pharmacy, the First Affiliated Hospital, Zhejiang University School of Medicine, 
Hangzhou, 310003, PR China. Electronic address: 1316056@zju.edu.cn.
(4)Kidney Disease Center, The First Affiliated Hospital, Zhejiang University 
School of Medicine, Hangzhou, 310003, China. Electronic address: 
hexuelin2018@zju.edu.cn.

BACKGROUND: Cisplatin-induced acute kidney injury (AKI) is a complex and serious 
clinical issue, representing a major cause of hospital-acquired AKI. Alkaloids 
are the main active constituents of Aconitum carmichaelii Debx, which exhibit 
protective effects in several kidney disease models and against other acute 
organ injuries. However, its activity and mechanism of action in AKI treatment 
remain unclear.
PURPOSE: This study aimed to elucidate the effect of Aconitum carmichaelii Debx 
(ACA) in a model of cisplain-induced AKI and comprehensively investigate its 
underlying mechanisms.
METHODS: The major alkaloids in ACA were analyzed using high-performance liquid 
chromatography. Blood urea nitrogen (BUN) and serum creatine levels were 
measured using automated biochemical instruments. 16S rRNA sequencing, 
short-chain fatty acid (SCFA) analysis, fecal microbiota transplantation (FMT), 
non-targeted metabolomics, and transcriptomics were performed to systematically 
identify prospective biomarkers after ACA treatment. Anti-inflammatory and 
anti-oxidative stress activities were monitored using ELISA and western 
blotting.
RESULTS: Four main compounds (fuziline, neoline, talatisamine, and songorine) 
were identified in ACA. ACA significantly alleviated cisplatin-induced AKI by 
reducing (BUN) and serum creatine levels and improving histopathological scores. 
Moreover, ACA balanced cisplatin-mediated confoundments in microbial composition 
and function, including decreasing the levels of Escherichia-Shigella, 
Clostridium, and Ruminococcus, as well as increasing Ligilactobacillus, 
Anaerotruncus, Bacteroides and Desulfovibrio levels, accompanied by uremic toxin 
reduction, and augmenting serum SCFAs. The FMT experiments further confirmed 
that ACA exerts anti-AKI effects by affecting gut microbiota. A multi-omics 
study has shown that ACA regulates glutathione and tryptophan metabolism and 
mediates pathways that trigger inflammatory responses. Finally, ACA reduced 
serum levels of inflammatory factors (IL-1β, IL-6, and TNF-α), restored enzymes 
of the antioxidative system (SOD and CAT) and GSH values, and decreased 
monoester diterpene alkaloid levels in the kidney by inhibiting the expression 
of NF-κB pathway-related proteins and increasing Nrf2/HO-1 pathway-related 
protein expression.
CONCLUSION: ACA protects against cisplatin-induced AKI through its 
anti-inflammatory and antioxidant functions, which may be associated with the 
restoration of gut microbiota metabolism. ACA is a potential drug for AKI and 
other forms of organ damage related to the disruption of the gut microbiota.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.phymed.2024.156128
PMID: 39442279 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest We declare 
that we have no financial and personal relationships with other people or 
organizations that can inappropriately influence our work, there is no 
professional or other personal interest of any nature or kind in any product, 
service and/or company that could be construed as influencing the position 
presented in this manuscript.