[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Complex Circuit Systems | Topic: Espresso heuristic logic minimizer | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Espresso heuristic logic minimizer — Overview

the number of variables. A similar problem occurs when increasing the number of output functions of a combinational function block. As a result, the Quine–McCluskey method is practical only for functions with a limited number of input variables and output functions. ESPRESSO algorithm A different approach to this issue is followed in the ESPRESSO algorithm, developed by Brayton et al. at the University of California, Berkeley. It is a resource and performance efficient algorithm aimed at solving the heuristic hazard-free two-level logic minimization problem. Rather than expanding a logic function into minterms, the program manipulates "cubes", representing the product terms in the ON-, DC-, and OFF- covers iteratively. Although the minimization result is not guaranteed to be the global minimum, in practice this is very closely approximated, while the solution is always free from redundancy. Compared to the other methods, this one is essentially more efficient, reducing memory usage and computation time by several orders of magnitude. Its name reflects the way of instantly making a cup of fresh coffee. There is hardly any restriction to the number of variables, output functions and product terms of a combinational function block. In general, e.g. tens of variables with tens of output functions are readily dealt with. The input for ESPRESSO is a function table of the desired functionality; the result is a minimized table, describing either the ON-cover or the OFF-cover of the function, depending on the selected options. By default, the product terms will be shared as much as possible by the several output functions, but the program can be instructed to handle each of the output functions separately. This allows for efficient implementation in two-level logic arrays such as a PLA (Programmable Logic Array) or a PAL (Programmable Array Logic). The ESPRESSO algorithm proved so successful that it has been incorporated as a standard logic function minimization step into virtually any contemporary logic synthesis tool. For implementing a function in multi-level logic, the minimization result is optimized by factorization and mapped onto the available basic logic cells in the target technology, whether this concerns a field-programmable gate array (FPGA) or an application-specific integrated circuit (ASIC). Software

ESPRESSO 
The original ESPRESSO program is available as C source code from the University of California, Berkeley website. The last release was version 2.3 dated 1988. The ESPRESSO-AB and EQNTOTT (equation to truth table) program, an updated version of ESPRESSO for modern POSIX systems, is available in Debian Linux distribution (.deb) file format as well the C source code. The last release was version 9.0 dated 2008. A Windows and C++20 compatible was ported to GitHub in 2020. Logic Friday 

Logic Friday is a free Windows program that provides a graphical interface to Espresso, as well as to misII, another module in the Berkeley Octtools package. With Logic Friday users can enter a logic function as a truth table, equation, or gate diagram, minimize the function, and then view the results in both of the other two representations. The last release was version 1.1.4 dated 2012. Minilog 
Minilog is a free Windows program that provides logic minimization exploiting this Espresso algorithm. It is able to generate a two-level gate implementation for a combinational function block with up to 40 inputs and outputs or a synchronous state machine with up to 256 states. It is part of the Publicad educational design package. ESPRESSO-IISOJS 
ESPRESSO-IISOJS is a JavaScript implementation of ESPRESSO-II for single output functions. It employs unit propagation as an additional optimization technique for the various algorithms in ESPRESSO-II that are based on the unate recursive paradigm. Another addition is allowing control over when literals can be raised which can be exploited to effectively minimize Kleene logic functions. References

Further reading 
 

Electronic design automation software
Electronics optimization
Free simulation software
Electronic circuit simulators