[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: laser surgery LASIK corneal refractive outcome | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: laser surgery LASIK corneal refractive outcome]

86. Korean J Ophthalmol. 2017 Feb;31(1):16-24. doi: 10.3341/kjo.2017.31.1.16.
Epub  2017 Feb 2.

Clinical Outcomes of an Optimized Prolate Ablation Procedure for Correcting 
Residual Refractive Errors Following Laser Surgery.

Chung B(1), Lee H(1), Choi BJ(2), Seo KR(1), Kim EK(3), Kim DY(2), Kim TI(1).

Author information:
(1)The Institute of Vision Research, Department of Ophthalmology, Yonsei 
University College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.
(2)Lee Eye Clinic, Busan, Korea.
(3)The Institute of Vision Research, Department of Ophthalmology, Yonsei 
University College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.; Corneal Dystrophy Research 
Institute, Severance Biomedical Science Institute, and Brain Korea 21 Project 
for Medical Science, Department of Ophthalmology, Yonsei University College of 
Medicine, Seoul, Korea.

PURPOSE: The purpose of this study was to investigate the clinical efficacy of 
an optimized prolate ablation procedure for correcting residual refractive 
errors following laser surgery.
METHODS: We analyzed 24 eyes of 15 patients who underwent an optimized prolate 
ablation procedure for the correction of residual refractive errors following 
laser in situ keratomileusis, laser-assisted subepithelial keratectomy, or 
photorefractive keratectomy surgeries. Preoperative ophthalmic examinations were 
performed, and uncorrected distance visual acuity, corrected distance visual 
acuity, manifest refraction values (sphere, cylinder, and spherical equivalent), 
point spread function, modulation transfer function, corneal asphericity (Q 
value), ocular aberrations, and corneal haze measurements were obtained 
postoperatively at 1, 3, and 6 months.
RESULTS: Uncorrected distance visual acuity improved and refractive errors 
decreased significantly at 1, 3, and 6 months postoperatively. Total coma 
aberration increased at 3 and 6 months postoperatively, while changes in all 
other aberrations were not statistically significant. Similarly, no significant 
changes in point spread function were detected, but modulation transfer function 
increased significantly at the postoperative time points measured.
CONCLUSIONS: The optimized prolate ablation procedure was effective in terms of 
improving visual acuity and objective visual performance for the correction of 
persistent refractive errors following laser surgery.

DOI: 10.3341/kjo.2017.31.1.16
PMCID: PMC5327170
PMID: 28243019 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: No potential conflict of 
interest relevant to this article was reported.