[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: low-level laser therapy wound healing pain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: low-level laser therapy wound healing pain]

89. Photomed Laser Surg. 2012 Sep;30(9):559-64. doi: 10.1089/pho.2012.3243. Epub 
2012 Aug 7.

Therapeutic effects of low-level laser therapy after premolar extraction in 
adolescents: a randomized double-blind clinical trial.

Paschoal MA(1), Santos-Pinto L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatric Dentistry, Araraquara Dental School, UNESP-University 
Estadual Paulista, São Paulo, Brazil.

OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effect of low-level 
laser therapy (LLLT) on wound healing process and pain levels after premolar 
extraction in adolescents.
BACKGROUND DATA: The advantage of using LLLT in oral surgeries is the reduction 
of inflammation and postoperative discomfort; however, the optimal dosing 
parameters and treatment effects in surgical procedures are inconclusive.
METHODS: A double-blind, randomized, controlled clinical trial was conducted 
with 14 patients who were to undergo surgical removal of premolars. Patients 
were randomly allocated to the LLLT (test) group and placebo (control) group. 
Patients in the test group received 5.1 J (60 J/cm(2)) of energy density of a 
gallium-aluminum-arsenide (GaAlAs) diode laser (wavelength, 830 nm; output 
power, 0.1 W) at three different points intraorally, 1 cm from the target tissue 
immediately and at 48 and 72 h after the surgical procedure. For patients in the 
placebo group, the laser device was applied to the same points without 
activating the hand piece. The wound healing process was evaluated by an 
independent examiner by visual inspection with the support of digital 
photographs at baseline and 2, 7, and 15 days postoperatively. Patients recorded 
the degree of pain using the visual analogue scale (VAS).
RESULTS: Compared with the placebo group, the test group showed a lower 
intensity of pain, but this difference was not statistically significant at any 
time point. The wound healing process was similar in both groups.
CONCLUSIONS: Within the limitations of this study, the LLLT parameters used 
neither increased the wound healing process nor significantly decreased pain 
intensity after premolar extraction in adolescents.

DOI: 10.1089/pho.2012.3243
PMID: 22870960 [Indexed for MEDLINE]