[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Propulsion Mechanics | Topic: Modern Propulsions for Aerospace-Part II | Type: OpenAlex-OA | Level: Graduate]

[OpenAlex | Propulsion Engineering | Year: 2017 | Citations: 93]

Title: Modern Propulsions for Aerospace-Part II

Abstract:
Speaking about a new engine ionic means to speak about a new aircraft. The paper presents in a short time the actual engines ion chambers (called the ion thrusters) and other new ionic motors proposed by the authors. The engine (ionic propulsion unit of ions, that accelerates the positive ions through a potential difference) is approximately ten times more efficient than classic system based on combustion. We can further improve the efficiency of the 10-50 times in the case in which is used the pulses of positive ions accelerated in a cyclotron mounted on the ship; efficiency may increase with ease of a thousand times in the case in which the positive ions will be accelerate in a synchrotron high energy, synchrocyclotron or isochronous cyclotron (1-100 GeV). For this, the great classic synchrotron is reduced to a surface-ring (magnetic core). The future (ionic) engine will have a circular particle binding (energy high or very high speed). Thus we can increase the speed and autonomy of the vessel, using a smaller quantity of fuel. It can be used a radiation synchrotron (synchrotron high intensity), with X-ray or gamma radiation. In this case, will result in a beam engine with the wiring (not an ionic engine), which will use only the power (energy, which may be solar energy, nuclear energy, or a combination) and so we will eliminate the fuel. It is suggested to use a powerful LINAC at the outlet of the synchrotron (especially when one accelerates the electron beam) in order not to lose power by photons of the emission premature. With a new ionic engine practically builds a brand new aircraft that can move through the water and air with the same ease. This new aircraft will be able to expedite directly, without an engine with the additional combustion and without the gravity assistance.