[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: magnetic resonance spectroscopy metabolite brain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: magnetic resonance spectroscopy metabolite brain]

56. Brain Res Bull. 2024 Dec;219:111125. doi: 10.1016/j.brainresbull.2024.111125.
 Epub 2024 Nov 13.

Metabolite alterations in the left dorsolateral prefrontal cortex and its 
association with cognitive assessments in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis: A 
longitudinal magnetic resonance spectroscopy study.

Ghaderi S(1), Fatehi F(2), Kalra S(3), Okhovat AA(4), Nafissi S(4), Mohammadi 
S(4), Batouli SAH(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neuroscience and Addiction Studies, School of Advanced 
Technologies in Medicine, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran; 
Neuromuscular Research Center, Department of Neurology, Shariati Hospital, 
Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(2)Neuromuscular Research Center, Department of Neurology, Shariati Hospital, 
Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran; Neurology Department, 
University Hospitals of Leicester NHS Trust, Leicester, UK.
(3)Neuroscience and Mental Health Institute, University of 
Alberta, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada; Division of Neurology, Department of 
Medicine, University of Alberta, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada.
(4)Neuromuscular Research Center, Department of Neurology, Shariati Hospital, 
Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(5)Department of Neuroscience and Addiction Studies, School of Advanced 
Technologies in Medicine, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran. 
Electronic address: batouli@sina.tums.ac.ir.

OBJECTIVE: To characterize the longitudinal metabolite profile of the left 
dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) 
using magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) and to examine its correlation with 
cognitive assessments.
METHODS: Thirteen patients at baseline and ten at follow-up, along with 14 age-, 
sex-, and handedness-matched healthy controls (HCs), were recruited. Three Tesla 
with a 64-channel coil, Point-RESolved Spectroscopy (PRESS) sequence (TR=1500 ms 
and TE=140 ms) was used. Metabolites in the left DLPFC were quantified using 
LCModel. Cognitive performance and functional impairment were assessed using the 
Edinburgh Cognitive and Behavioral ALS Screen (ECAS) and Revised ALS Functional 
Rating Scale (ALSFRS-R), respectively. Group comparisons were adjusted for 
multiple comparisons (p < 0.05, Bonferroni correction). The links between the 
brain metabolites and cognitive function were investigated using relevant 
correlation tests (Pearson's or Spearman's).
RESULTS: Our analysis revealed a significant difference in the 
choline-to-creatine ratio (tCho/tCr) among the three groups. Baseline ALS 
patients showed a higher tCho/tCr ratio than HCs (p = 0.033, 
Bonferroni-corrected). Interestingly, the total N-acetyl aspartate (tNAA)/tCr 
ratio, a marker of neuronal health, was strongly positively correlated with 
visuospatial cognitive scores at baseline and follow-up. Furthermore, at 
follow-up, tNAA/tCr was positively correlated with the total scores and specific 
sub-scores on the ECAS, encompassing both ALS-specific and non-specific 
cognitive domains. At follow-up, positive correlations emerged between tNAA/tCr 
and the total language and executive function scores.
CONCLUSIONS: Metabolite alterations and correlations with cognition were 
observed in the left DLPFC of ALS patients, supporting extra-motor involvement 
and its association with cognitive decline.

Copyright © 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.brainresbull.2024.111125
PMID: 39542047 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.