[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: MRI physics image quality artifact reduction | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: MRI physics image quality artifact reduction]

22. J Magn Reson Imaging. 2007 Feb;25(2):245-61. doi: 10.1002/jmri.20815.

3.0 Tesla imaging of the musculoskeletal system.

Kuo R(1), Panchal M, Tanenbaum L, Crues JV 3rd.

Author information:
(1)Radnet Management, Inc., Los Angeles, California 90025, USA.

High-field MRI at 3.0T is rapidly gaining clinical acceptance and experiencing 
more widespread use. The superiority of high-field imaging has clearly been 
demonstrated for neurological imaging. The impact of 3.0T imaging of the 
musculoskeletal system has been less dramatic due to complex optimization 
issues. Areas under consideration include coil technology, protocol 
modification, artifact reduction, and patient safety. In this article we review 
these issues and describe our experience with 3.0T musculoskeletal MRI. 
Fundamentally, an increased signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) is responsible for 
improved imaging at higher field strength. Increased SNR allows more headroom to 
adjust parameters that affect image resolution and examination time. It has been 
established that T1 relaxation time increases at 3.0T, while T2 time decreases. 
Consequently, scanner parameters require adjustment for optimization of images. 
Chemical shift and magnetic susceptibility artifacts are more pronounced and 
require special techniques to minimize the effect on image quality. Spectral fat 
saturation techniques can take advantage of the increased chemical shift. The 
specific absorption rate (SAR) and acoustic noise thresholds must be kept in 
mind at these higher fields. We additionally present some of the clinical issues 
we have experienced at 3.0T. A decision must be made as to whether to trade 
higher resolution for reduced scanning time. In general, we believe that routine 
imaging at 3.0T increases diagnostic confidence, especially for evaluations of 
cartilaginous and ligamentous structures.

(c) 2007 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/jmri.20815
PMID: 17260407 [Indexed for MEDLINE]