[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: Ethnomedicinal Use, Phytochemistry, and Pharmacology of Xylo | Type: OpenAlex-OA | Level: Graduate]

[OpenAlex | Herbal Medicine | Year: 2021 | Citations: 35]

Title: Ethnomedicinal Use, Phytochemistry, and Pharmacology of Xylocarpus granatum J. Koenig

Abstract:
The mangrove plants are the potential sources of foods and remedies for people living in the forests and nearby communities. Xylocarpus granatum J. Koenig is traditionally used to treat various diseases including diarrhea, cholera, dysentery, fever, malaria, and viral infections, among others. To summarize critically the taxonomy, ethnomedicinal, phytochemistry, and pharmacological activities of X. granatum, information was collected from different databases. An up-to-date search (till June 2020) was carried out with the help of various scientific web resources from databases such as PubMed, Science Direct, Google Scholar, and various patent offices (e.g., WIPO, CIPO, and USPTO) using the keywords “Xylocarpus granatum” and then paired with ethnomedicinal use and phytochemical, phytochemistry, and pharmacological activity (in vitro, ex vivo, and in vivo studies). Findings revealed that seeds, fruits, stem bark, leaf, and twigs of X. granatum exhibited a wide range of key phytochemicals including limonoids, phragmalin, limonoid-based alkaloids, mexicanolides, protolimonoids, flavonols, and lactones. The plant possessed potent antioxidant, anticancer, antidiabetic, antimicrobial, antimalarial, antifeedant, and neuroprotective activities. No clinical studies have been reported in the databases. Ethnomedicinal assessment indicated the application of X. granatum in various fields of medical science specially to treat various human ailments, and this was attributed to the presence of enormous alkaloids as confirmed by pharmacological studies. However, to understand the mechanism of action in-depth studies are required. In view of these findings, more research is necessary to explore and characterize the chemical compounds and toxicological aspects of this medicinal mangrove plant. Overall, it can be stated that X. granatum may be one of the hopeful medicinal herbs for the treatment of various diseases in human beings.