[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: herbal medicine drug interaction pharmacokinetics | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: herbal medicine drug interaction pharmacokinetics]

98. Drug Dev Res. 2020 Aug;81(5):609-619. doi: 10.1002/ddr.21661. Epub 2020 Mar
27.

β-Glucuronidase- and OATP2B1-mediated drug interaction of scutellarin in 
Dengzhan Xixin Injection: A formulation aspect.

Shi J(1)(2), Sun C(2), Huang H(3), Lin W(1), Gao J(4), Lin Y(5), Zhang Z(6), Huo 
X(2), Tian X(2), Yu Z(2), Zhang B(2), Ma X(4)(6).

Author information:
(1)School of Chemical and Environmental Engineering, Shanghai Institute of 
Technology, Shanghai, China.
(2)Institute of Integrative Medicine, College of Pharmacy, Dalian Medical 
University, Dalian, China.
(3)Laboratory of Modern Preparation of TCM, Ministry of Education, Jiangxi 
University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Nanchang, China.
(4)Jiangsu Key Laboratory of New Drug Research and Clinical Pharmacy, Xuzhou 
Medical University, Xuzhou, China.
(5)Yunnan Biovalley Pharmaceutical Company, Kunming, China.
(6)State Key Laboratory of Cognitive Neuroscience and Learning, Beijing Normal 
University, Beijing, China.

Scutellarin is the major and active constituent of Dengzhan Xixin Injection 
(DZXX), a traditional Chinese medicine prepared from the aqueous extract of 
Erigeron breviscapus and widely used for the treatment of various 
cerebrovascular diseases in clinic. In present study, the possible 
pharmacokinetic differences of scutellarin after intravenous administration of 
scutellarin alone or DZXX were explored. Additional, the potential roles of 
β-glucuronidase (GLU) and OATP2B1 in drug-drug interaction (DDI) between 
scutellarin and constituents of DZXX were further evaluated in vitro. The plasma 
concentration, urinary and biliary excretion of scutellarin in rats after 
administration of DZXX, were significantly higher than those received 
scutellarin, while pharmacokinetic profile of Apigenin 7-O-glucuronide (AG) in 
rats was similar no matter AG or DZXX group. Furthermore, higher concentration 
in brain and plasma, however, lower level of scutellarin in intestine were 
observed after intravenous administration of DZXX. Finally, AG and 
caffeoylquinic acid esters were found to significantly inhibit GLU and OATP2B1 
in vitro, which might explain, at least in part, the pharmacokinetic DDI between 
scutellarin and other chemical constituents in DZXX. The findings provided deep 
insight into the prescription-formulating principle in DZXX for treating the 
cerebrovascular diseases.

© 2020 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ddr.21661
PMID: 32220026 [Indexed for MEDLINE]