[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: cannabis cannabidiol therapeutic epilepsy pain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: cannabis cannabidiol therapeutic epilepsy pain]

92. Complement Ther Med. 2020 Jun;51:102402. doi: 10.1016/j.ctim.2020.102402.
Epub  2020 Apr 28.

Safety and pharmacokinetics of medical cannabis preparation in a monocentric 
series of young patients with drug resistant epilepsy.

Gherzi M(1), Milano G(2), Fucile C(3), Calevo MG(4), Mancardi MM(5), Nobili 
L(6), Astuni P(3), Marini V(3), Barco S(7), Cangemi G(7), Manfredini L(8), 
Mattioli F(3), De Grandis E(9).

Author information:
(1)DINOGMI Department of Neurosciences, Rehabilitation, Ophthalmology, Genetics 
and Maternal and Children's Sciences, University of Genoa, Genoa, Italy.
(2)Laboratory Medicine Unit, IRCCS Ospedale Policlinico San Martino, Genoa, 
Italy.
(3)Department of Internal Medicine, Pharmacology and Toxicology Unit, University 
of Genoa, Genoa, Italy.
(4)Epidemiology, Biostatistics and Committees Unit, IRCCS Istituto Giannina 
Gaslini, Genoa, Italy.
(5)Child Neuropsychiatry Unit, IRCCS Istituto Giannina Gaslini, Genoa, Italy.
(6)DINOGMI Department of Neurosciences, Rehabilitation, Ophthalmology, Genetics 
and Maternal and Children's Sciences, University of Genoa, Genoa, Italy; Child 
Neuropsychiatry Unit, IRCCS Istituto Giannina Gaslini, Genoa, Italy.
(7)Central Laboratory of Analyses, IRCCS Istituto Giannina Gaslini, Genoa, 
Italy.
(8)Paediatric Chronic Pain and Palliative Care Service, IRCCS Istituto Giannina 
Gaslini, Genoa, Italy.
(9)DINOGMI Department of Neurosciences, Rehabilitation, Ophthalmology, Genetics 
and Maternal and Children's Sciences, University of Genoa, Genoa, Italy; Child 
Neuropsychiatry Unit, IRCCS Istituto Giannina Gaslini, Genoa, Italy. Electronic 
address: elisadegrandis@gaslini.org.

OBJECTIVES: To evaluate safety and pharmacokinetic parameters (PK) of medical 
cannabis in add-on for children and young adults with drug-resistant epilepsy.
DESIGN, SETTING: Ten patients (4 females, 6 males, age 2.5-23.2 years) were 
enrolled in a prospective open trial with a galenic preparation (decoction) of 
Italian cannabis (FM2, ratio THC:CBD = 3:5, range THC 5.2-7.2 %; CBD 8.2-11.1 
%). Patients received the first dose in Hospital, progressively augmented by CBD 
dose titration (from 1 to 4 mg/kg/day).
OUTCOME MEASURES: In order to assess safety, blood parameters, heart rates and 
electrocardiograms (ECGs) were evaluated before the enrollment and during the 
follow up. The PK study was performed measuring THC and CBD concentrations by 
UHPLC-MS/MS in plasma samples collected during the first administration and at 
each follow-up visit.
RESULTS: Two out of ten patients stopped the treatment for adverse events 
(detected in 6/10: gastroenteric, sleep or behavioral disorders) and 
difficulties in drug supply. We observed minor ECG alterations in two patients 
and asymptomatic transient reductions of fibrinogen after 6 months of therapy. 
The PK study during follow-up revealed statistically significant correlations 
between THC-CBD blood concentrations and: volumes of decoction, FM2 and THC-CBD 
daily dosages.
CONCLUSIONS: The present study, although with some limitations, shows a good 
safety profile of medical cannabis in children and young patients with 
drug-resistant epilepsy and encourages the possibility of further studies with 
oral cannabis-based drugs. The correlations between THC-CBD plasma 
concentrations and their administered dosages underline the need of a 
therapeutic drug monitoring for cannabinoids therapy.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ctim.2020.102402
PMID: 32507423 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest All the 
authors declare that they have no known competing financial interests or 
personal relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported 
in this paper.