[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: biomaterial implant osseointegration titanium clin | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: biomaterial implant osseointegration titanium clinical]

2. Eur J Oral Sci. 2017 Oct;125(5):315-337. doi: 10.1111/eos.12364. Epub 2017 Aug
 19.

Guided bone regeneration: materials and biological mechanisms revisited.

Elgali I(1)(2), Omar O(1)(2), Dahlin C(1)(2)(3), Thomsen P(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomaterials, Institute of Clinical Sciences, Sahlgrenska 
Academy, University of Gothenburg, Gothenburg, Sweden.
(2)BIOMATCELL VINN Excellence Center of Biomaterials and Cell Therapy, 
University of Gothenburg, Gothenburg, Sweden.
(3)Department of Oral Maxillofacial Surgery/ENT, NU-Hospital organisation, 
Trollhättan, Sweden.

Guided bone regeneration (GBR) is commonly used in combination with the 
installment of titanium implants. The application of a membrane to exclude 
non-osteogenic tissues from interfering with bone regeneration is a key 
principle of GBR. Membrane materials possess a number of properties which are 
amenable to modification. A large number of membranes have been introduced for 
experimental and clinical verification. This prompts the need for an update on 
membrane properties and the biological outcomes, as well as a critical 
assessment of the biological mechanisms governing bone regeneration in defects 
covered by membranes. The relevant literature for this narrative review was 
assessed after a MEDLINE/PubMed database search. Experimental data suggest that 
different modifications of the physicochemical and mechanical properties of 
membranes may promote bone regeneration. Nevertheless, the precise role of 
membrane porosities for the barrier function of GBR membranes still awaits 
elucidation. Novel experimental findings also suggest an active role of the 
membrane compartment per se in promoting the regenerative processes in the 
underlying defect during GBR, instead of being purely a passive barrier. The 
optimization of membrane materials by systematically addressing both the barrier 
and the bioactive properties is an important strategy in this field of research.

© 2017 The Authors. Eur J Oral Sci published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/eos.12364
PMCID: PMC5601292
PMID: 28833567 [Indexed for MEDLINE]