[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: photodynamic therapy cancer clinical trial | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: photodynamic therapy cancer clinical trial]

42. J Urol. 2002 Oct;168(4 Pt 1):1427-32. doi: 10.1016/S0022-5347(05)64466-7.

Photodynamic therapy for prostate cancer recurrence after radiotherapy: a phase 
I study.

Nathan TR(1), Whitelaw DE, Chang SC, Lees WR, Ripley PM, Payne H, Jones L, 
Parkinson MC, Emberton M, Gillams AR, Mundy AR, Bown SG.

Author information:
(1)National Medical Laser Center, Department of Surgery and Institute of 
Urology, Royal and Free University College Medical School, London, United 
Kingdom.

PURPOSE: Photodynamic therapy, using a photosensitizing drug activated by red 
light, can destroy localized areas of cancer with safe healing and without the 
cumulative toxicity associated with ionizing radiation. We used photodynamic 
therapy in a phase I-II study to treat patients with locally recurrent prostate 
cancer after radiotherapy.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Patients with an increasing prostate specific antigen 
(PSA) and biopsy proven local recurrence after radiotherapy were offered 
photodynamic therapy. Three days after intravenous administration of the 
photosensitizer meso-tetrahydroxyphenyl chlorin, light was applied using optical 
fibers inserted percutaneously through perineal needles positioned in the 
prostate with imaging guidance. Patients were followed with PSA measurements, 
prostate biopsies, computerized tomography or magnetic resonance imaging and 
questionnaires on urinary and sexual function.
RESULTS: Photodynamic therapy was given to 14 men using high light doses in 13. 
Treatment was well tolerated. PSA decreased in 9 patients (to undetectable 
levels in 2) and 5 had no viable tumor on posttreatment biopsies. After 
photodynamic therapy, contrast enhanced computerized tomography or magnetic 
resonance imaging showed necrosis involving up to 91% of the prostate cross 
section. In 4 men stress incontinence developed (troublesome in 2 and mild in 2) 
which is slowly improving. Sexual potency was impaired in 4 of the 7 men able to 
have intercourse before photodynamic therapy, which did not improve. There were 
no rectal complications directly related to photodynamic therapy, but in 1 
patient a urethrorectal fistula developed following an ill-advised rectal biopsy 
1 month after therapy.
CONCLUSIONS: Photodynamic therapy is a new option that could be suitable for 
organ confined prostate cancer recurrence after radiotherapy. With more precise 
light dosimetry, it may be possible to destroy essentially all glandular tissue 
within the prostate with few complications. These results suggest that 
photodynamic therapy merits further investigation.

DOI: 10.1016/S0022-5347(05)64466-7
PMID: 12352410 [Indexed for MEDLINE]