[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Propulsion Mechanics | Topic: LCROSS | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# LCROSS — Overview

adaptive optics, did not detect the plume. The plume may have still occurred but at a small scale not detectable from Earth. Both impacts were also monitored by Earth-based observatories and by orbital assets, such as the Hubble Space Telescope. Whether or not LCROSS would find water had been stated to be influential in whether or not the United States government pursues creating a Moon base. On November 13, 2009, NASA confirmed that water was detected after the Centaur impacted the crater. Spacecraft

The LCROSS mission took advantage of the structural capabilities of the Evolved Expendable Launch Vehicle (EELV) Secondary Payload Adapter (ESPA) ring used to attach LRO to the Centaur upper-stage rocket to form the Shepherding Spacecraft. Mounted on the outside of the ESPA were six panels that hold the spacecraft's science payload, command and control systems, communications equipment, batteries, and solar panels. A small monopropellant propulsion system was mounted inside of the ring. Also attached were two S Band omnidirectional antennas and two medium-gain antennas. The mission's strict schedule, mass, and budget constraints posed difficult challenges to engineering teams from NASA Ames Research Center (ARC) and Northrop Grumman. Their creative thinking led to a unique use of the ESPA ring and innovative sourcing of other spacecraft components. Usually, the ESPA ring is used as a platform to hold six small deployable satellites; for LCROSS, it became the backbone of the satellite, a first for the ring. LCROSS also took advantage of commercially available instruments and used many of the already-flight-verified components used on LRO. LCROSS is managed by NASA's ARC and was built by Northrop Grumman. The LCROSS preliminary design review was completed on September 8, 2006. The LCROSS mission passed its Mission Confirmation Review on February 2, 2007, and its Critical Design Review on February 22, 2007. After assembly and testing at Ames, the instrument payload, provided by Ecliptic Enterprises Corporation, was shipped to Northrop Grumman on January 14, 2008, for integration with the spacecraft. LCROSS passed its review on February 12, 2009. Instruments
The LCROSS Shepherding Spacecraft science instrument payload, provided by NASA's ARC, consisted of a total of nine instruments: one visible, two near infrared, and two mid-infrared cameras; one visible and two near-infrared spectrometers; and a photometer. A data handling unit (DHU) collected the information from each instrument for transmission back to LCROSS Mission Control. Because of the schedule and budget constraints, LCROSS took advantage of rugged, commercially available components. The individual instruments went through a rigorous testing cycle that simulated launch and flight conditions, identifying design weaknesses and necessary modifications for use in space, at which point the manufacturers were allowed to modify their designs. Results
The impact was not as visually prominent as had been anticipated. Project manager Dan Andrews believed that this was due to pre-crash simulations that exaggerated the plume's prominence. Because of data bandwidth issues, the exposures were kept short, which made the plume difficult to see in the images in the visible spectra. This resulted in the need for image processing to increase clarity. The infrared camera also captured a thermal signature of the booster's impact. Presence of water
On November 13, 2009, NASA reported that multiple lines of evidence show water was present in both the high-angle vapor plume and the ejecta curtain created by the LCROSS Centaur impact. , the concentration and distribution of water and other substances required more analysis. Additional confirmation came from an emission in the ultraviolet spectrum that was attributed to hydroxyl fragments, a product from the break-up of water by sunlight. Analysis of the spectra indicate that a reasonable estimate of the concentration of water in the frozen regolith is on the order of one percent. Evidence from other missions suggests that this may have been a relatively dry spot, as thick deposits of relatively pure ice appear to present themselves in other craters. A later, more definitive, analysis found the concentration of water to be "5.6 ± 2.9% by mass." On August 20, 2018, NASA confirmed ice on the surface at the Moon's poles. Imagery

Awards
LCROSS has received numerous awards for its technical, managerial, and scientific accomplishments. 2010: Northrop Grumman Northrop Grumman Corporate 2010 Award for Excellence (Northrop Grumman team)
2010: Popular Mechanics magazine's 2010 Breakthrough Award for innovation in science and technology. 2010: NASA Honor Award – Group Achievement, (LCROSS Science Team)
2010: NASA Honor Award – Group Achievement, (LCROSS Mission Operations Team)
2010: NASA Honor Award – Group Achievement, for "outstanding professionalism, innovation in outreach and education, and for integrating outreach for two missions into one launch." (LRO/LCROSS/LPRP EPO teams)
2010: NASA Honor Award - Exceptional Achievement Medal, (Rusty Hunt)
2010: NASA Honor Award - Outstanding Leadership Medal, (Dan Andrews & Tony Colaprete)
2010: NASA Honor Award - Group Achievement, LCROSS Science and Payload Team
2010: NASA Ames Honor Award, category "Exceptional Achievement" (Ken Galal)
2010: Northrop Grumman AS Sector President's Award, category "Operational Excellence" (Northrop Grumman team)
2010: Aviation Week Laureate Award Nominee, Category "Space"
2010: Space Foundation "John L.