[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: traditional Chinese medicine herbs mechanism actio | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: traditional Chinese medicine herbs mechanism action]

60. Biomater Sci. 2024 Mar 26;12(7):1662-1692. doi: 10.1039/d3bm01451g.

Self-assembled nanodrug delivery systems for anti-cancer drugs from traditional 
Chinese medicine.

Li Q(1), Lianghao Y(1), Shijie G(1), Zhiyi W(1), Yuanting T(1), Cong C(2), 
Chun-Qin Z(3), Xianjun F(4).

Author information:
(1)Experimental Centre, Shandong University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, 
Jinan 250355, P. R. China.
(2)Innovative Institute of Chinese Medicine and Pharmacy, Shandong University of 
Traditional Chinese Medicine, Jinan 250355, P. R. China. keaidedacong@163.com.
(3)Academy of Chinese Medicine Literature and Culture, Key Laboratory of 
Classical Theory of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Ministry of Education, 
Shandong University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Shandong University of 
Traditional Chinese Medicine, Jinan, 250355, PR China. CQZhao21@126.com.
(4)Marine Traditional Chinese Medicine Research Centre, Qingdao Academy of 
Traditional Chinese Medicine, Shandong University of Traditional Chinese 
Medicine, Qingdao 266114, P. R. China. xianxiu@hotmail.com.

Traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) is a combination of raw herbs and herbal 
extracts with a plethora of documented beneficial bioactivities, which has 
unique advantages in anti-tumor therapy, and many of its major bioactive 
molecules have been identified in recent years due to advances in chemical 
separation and structural analysis. However, the major chemical classes of 
plant-derived bioactive compounds frequently possess chemical properties, 
including poor water solubility, stability, and bioavailability, that limit 
their therapeutic application. Alternatively, natural small molecules (NSMs) 
containing these components possess modifiable groups, multiple action sites, 
hydrophobic side chains, and a rigid skeleton with self-assembly properties that 
can be exploited to construct self-assembled nanoparticles with therapeutic 
effects superior to their individual constituents. For instance, the 
construction of a self-assembled nanodrug delivery system can effectively 
overcome the strong hydrophobicity and poor in vivo stability of NSMs, thereby 
greatly improving their bioavailability and enhancing their anti-tumor efficacy. 
This review summarizes the self-assembly methods, mechanisms, and applications 
of a variety of NSMs, including terpenoids, flavonoids, alkaloids, polyphenols, 
and saponins, providing a theoretical basis for the subsequent research on NSMs 
and the development of SANDDS.

DOI: 10.1039/d3bm01451g
PMID: 38411151 [Indexed for MEDLINE]61. Phytother Res. 2024 Jun;38(6):2962-2992. doi: 10.1002/ptr.8180. Epub 2024 Apr
 10.

Treatment of neuropathic pain by traditional Chinese medicine: An updated review 
on their effect and putative mechanisms of action.

Guo W(1), Zhang J(1), Feng Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Engineering Research Center of Modern Preparation Technology of TCM of 
Ministry of Education, Shanghai University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, 
Shanghai, People's Republic of China.

Neuropathic pain (NP) is a common chronic pain with heterogeneous clinical 
features, and consequent lowering of quality of life. Currently, although 
conventional chemical drugs can effectively manage NP symptoms in the short 
term, their long-term efficacy is limited, and they come with significant side 
effects. In this regard, traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) provides a promising 
avenue for treating NP. Numerous pharmacological and clinical studies have 
substantiated the effectiveness of TCM with multiple targets and mechanisms. We 
aimed to outline the characteristics of TCM, including compound prescriptions, 
single Chinese herbs, active ingredients, and TCM physical therapy, for NP 
treatment and discussed their efficacy by analyzing the pathogenesis of NP. 
Various databases, such as PubMed, Web of Science, China National Knowledge 
Infrastructure, and Wanfang database, were searched. We focused on recent 
research progress in NP treatment by TCM. Finally, we proposed the future 
challenges and emerging trends in the treatment of NP. TCM demonstrates 
significant clinical efficacy in NP treatment, employing multi-mechanisms. 
Drawing from the theory of syndrome differentiation, four types of dialectical 
treatments for NP by compound TCM prescriptions were introduced: promoting blood 
circulation and removing blood stasis; promoting blood circulation and promote 
Qi flow; warming Yang and benefiting Qi; soothing the liver and regulating Qi. 
Meanwhile, 33 single Chinese herbs and 25 active ingredients were included. In 
addition, TCM physical therapy (e.g., acupuncture, massage, acupoint injection, 
and fumigation) also showed good efficacy in NP treatment. TCM, particularly 
through the use of compound prescriptions and acupuncture, holds bright 
prospects in treating NP owing to its diverse holistic effects. Nonetheless, the 
multi-targets of TCM may result in possible disadvantages to NP treatment, and 
the pharmacological mechanisms of TCM need further evaluation. Here, we provide 
an overview of NP treatment via TCM, based on the pathogenesis and the potential 
therapeutic mechanisms, thus providing a reference for further studies.

© 2024 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/ptr.8180
PMID: 38600617 [Indexed for MEDLINE]