[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Propulsion Mechanics | Topic: Aeroshell | Type: Instruction-QA | Level: Graduate]

Question: Provide a comprehensive expert-level explanation of Aeroshell in the context of Applied Sciences.

Answer:
An aeroshell is a rigid heat-shielded shell that helps decelerate and protects a spacecraft vehicle from pressure, heat, and possible debris created by drag during atmospheric entry (see blunt body theory). Its main components consist of a heat shield (the forebody) and a back shell. The heat shield absorbs heat caused by air compression in front of the spacecraft during its atmospheric entry. The back shell carries the load being delivered, along with important components such as a parachute, rocket engines,  and monitoring electronics like an inertial measurement unit that monitors the orientation of the shell during parachute-slowed descent.

Its purpose is used during the EDL, or Entry, Descent, and Landing, process of a spacecraft's flight.  First, the aeroshell decelerates the spacecraft as it penetrates the planet's atmosphere and must necessarily dissipate the kinetic energy of the very high orbital speed. The heat shield absorbs some of this energy while much is also dissipated into the atmospheric gasses, mostly by radiation. During the latter stages of descent, a parachute is typically deployed and any heat shield is detached. Rockets may be located at the back shell to assist in control or to retropropulsively slow descent. Airbags may also be inflated to cushion impact with the ground, in which case the spacecraft could bounce on the planet's surface after the first impact. In many cases, communication throughout the process is relayed or recorded for subsequent transfer.

Aeroshells are a key component of space probes that must land intact on the surface of any object with an atmosphere. They have been used on the majority of missions returning payloads to the Earth. They are also used for all landing missions to Mars, Venus, Titan and (in the most extreme case) the Galileo probe to Jupiter. The size and geometry of an aeroshell is driven by the requirements of the EDL phase of its mission, as these parameters heavily influence its performance.

Components
The aeroshell consists of two main components: the heat shield, or forebody, which is located at the front of the aeroshell, and the back shell, which is located at the back of the aeroshell. The heat shield of the aeroshell faces the ram direction (forward) during a spacecraft's atmospheric entry, allowing it to absorb the high heat caused by compression of air in front of the craft. The backshell acts as a finalizer for the encapsulation of the payload. The backshell typically contains a parachute, pyrotechnic devices along with their electronics and batteries, an inertial measurement unit, and other hardware needed for the specific mission's entry, descent, and landing sequence. The parachute is located at the apex of the back shell and slows the spacecraft during EDL. The pyrotechnic control system releases devices such as nuts, rockets, and the parachute mortar. The inertial measurement unit reports the orientation of the back shell while it is swaying underneath the parachute. Retrorockets, if equipped, can assist in the terminal descent and landing of the spacecraft vehicle; alternatively or additionally, a lander may have retrorockets mounted on its own body for terminal descent and landing use (after the backshell has been jettisoned). Other rockets may be equipped to provide horizontal force to the back shell, helping to orient it to a more vertical position during the main retrorocket burn.

Design factors
A spacecraft's mission objective determines what flight requirements are needed to ensure mission success. These flight requirements are deceleration, heating, and impact and landing accuracy. A spacecraft must have a maximum value of deceleration low enough to keep the weakest points of its vehicle intact but high enough to penetrate the atmosphere without rebounding. Spacecraft structure and payload mass affect how much maximum deceleration it can stand. This force is represented by "g's", or Earth's gravitational acceleration. If its structure is well-designed enough and made from robust material (such as steel), then it can withstand a higher amount of g's.  However, payload needs to be considered. Just because the spacecraft's structure can withstand high g's does not mean its payload can. For example, a payload of astronauts can only withstand approximately 9 g's, or 9 times their weight. Values that are more than this baseline increase risk of brain injury or death. It must also be able to withstand high temperature caused by the immense friction resulting from entering the atmosphere at hypersonic speed. 
Finally, it must be able to penetrate an atmosphere and land on a terrain accurately, without missing its target. A more constricted landing area calls for more strict accuracy. In such cases, a spacecraft will be more streamlined and possess a steeper re-entry trajectory angle. These factors combine to affect the re-entry corridor, the area in which a spacecraft must travel in order to avoid burning up or rebounding out of an atmosphere. All of these above requirements are met through the consideration, design, and adjustment of a spacecraft's structure and trajectory. Future missions however are making use of atmospheric rebound, allowing re-entry capsules to travel further during their decent, and land in more convenient locations.

The overall dynamics of aeroshells are influenced by inertial and drag forces, as defined it this equation: ß=m/CdA where m is defined as the mass of the aeroshell and its respective loads and CdA is defined as the amount of drag force an aeroshell can generate during a freestream condition. Overall, β is defined as mass divided by drag force (mas per unit drag area). A higher mass per unit drag area causes aeroshell entry, descent, and landing to happen at low and dense points of the atmosphere and also reduces the elevation capability and the timeline margin for landing. This is because a higher mass/drag area means the spacecraft does not have sufficient drag to slo