[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: Biomaterial | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Biomaterial — Overview

brain tissue and a low tensile strength if an applied load is expected. For implanted biomaterials that may experience temperature fluctuations, e.g., dental implants, ductility is important. The material must be ductile for a similar reason that the tensile strength cannot be too high, ductility allows the material to bend without fracture and also prevents the concentration of stresses in the tissue when the temperature changes. The material property of toughness is also important for dental implants as well as any other rigid, load-bearing implant such as a replacement hip joint. Toughness describes the material's ability to deform under applied stress without fracturing and having a high toughness allows biomaterial implants to last longer within the body, especially when subjected to large stress or cyclically loaded stresses, like the stresses applied to a hip joint during running. For medical devices that are implanted or attached to the skin, another important property requiring consideration is the flexural rigidity, D. Flexural rigidity will determine how well the device surface can maintain conformal contact with the tissue surface, which is especially important for devices that are measuring tissue motion (strain), electrical signals (impedance), or are designed to stick to the skin without delaminating, as in epidermal electronics. Since flexural rigidity depends on the thickness of the material, h, to the third power (h3), it is very important that a biomaterial can be formed into thin layers in the previously mentioned applications where conformality is paramount. Structure 
The molecular composition of a biomaterial determines the physical and chemical properties of a biomaterial. These compositions create complex structures that allow the biomaterial to function, and therefore are necessary to define and understand in order to develop a biomaterial. biomaterials can be designed to replicate natural organisms, a process known as biomimetics. The structure of a biomaterial can be observed at different at different levels to better understand a materials properties and function. Atomic structure 

The arrangement of atoms and ions within a material is one of the most important structural properties of a biomaterial. The atomic structure of a material can be viewed at different levels, the sub atomic level, atomic or molecular level, as well as the ultra-structure created by the atoms and molecules. Intermolecular forces between the atoms and molecules that compose the material will determine its material and chemical properties. The sub atomic level observes the electrical structure of an individual atom to define its interactions with other atoms and molecules. The molecular structure observes the arrangement of atoms within the material. Finally the ultra-structure observes the 3-D structure created from the atomic and molecular structures of the material. The solid-state of a material is characterized by the intramolecular bonds between the atoms and molecules that comprise the material. Types of intramolecular bonds include: ionic bonds, covalent bonds, and metallic bonds. These bonds will dictate the physical and chemical properties of the material, as well as determine the type of material (ceramic, metal, or polymer). Microstructure 

The microstructure of a material refers to the structure of an object, organism, or material as viewed at magnifications exceeding 25 times. It is composed of the different phases of form, size, and distribution of grains, pores, precipitates, etc. The majority of solid microstructures are crystalline, however some materials such as certain polymers will not crystallize when in the solid state. Crystalline structure 
Crystalline structure is the composition of ions, atoms, and molecules that are held together and ordered in a 3D shape. The main difference between a crystalline structure and an amorphous structure is the order of the components. Crystalline has the highest level of order possible in the material where amorphous structure consists of irregularities in the ordering pattern. One way to describe crystalline structures is through the crystal lattice, which is a three-dimensional representation of the location of a repeating factor (unit cell) in the structure denoted with lattices. There are 14 different configurations of atom arrangement in a crystalline structure, and are all represented under Bravais lattices. Defects of crystalline structure 

During the formation of a crystalline structure, different impurities, irregularities, and other defects can form. These imperfections can form through deformation of the solid, rapid cooling, or high energy radiation. Types of defects include point defects, line defects, as well as edge dislocation. Macrostructure 
Macrostructure refers to the overall geometric properties that will influence the force at failure, stiffness, bending, stress distribution, and the weight of the material. It requires little to no magnification to reveal the macrostructure of a material.