[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: Rheum (plant) | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Rheum (plant) — Overview

Rheum is a genus of about 60 herbaceous perennial plants in the family Polygonaceae. Species are native to eastern Europe, southern and eastern temperate Asia, with a few reaching into northern tropical Asia. Rheum is cultivated in Europe and North America. The genus includes the vegetable rhubarb. The species have large somewhat triangular shaped leaves with long, fleshy petioles. The flowers are small, greenish-white to rose-red, and grouped in large compound leafy inflorescences. A number of cultivars of rhubarb have been domesticated both as medicinal plants and for human consumption. While the leaves are slightly toxic, the stalks are used in pies and other foods for their tart flavor. Description 

Rheum species are herbaceous perennials growing from fleshy roots. They have upright growing stems and mostly basal, deciduous leaves growing from short, thick rhizomes. They have persistent or deciduous ocrea. The inflorescences are terminal and panicle-like with pedicels. The hermaphrodite flowers consist of a whitish green to pinkish green, hairless and campanulate (bell-shaped) perianth, composed of six tepals. The outer three tepals are narrower than the inner three and all are sepal-like in appearance. The flowers have nine (sometimes six) stamina inserted on the torus at the base of the peranthium, they are free or subconnate at their base. The anthers are yellow or pinkish green, elliptic in shape. The ovary is simple and triangular shaped with three erect or deflexed styles. The stigmas are head-like. The fruits are a three-sided achene with winged sides, and the seeds are albuminous with a straight or curved embryo. Taxonomy
The genus Rheum was erected in 1753 by Carl Linnaeus, initially for three species: R. rhaponticum, R. rhabarbarum and R. ribes. Linnaeus did not explain the origin of the genus name. Rheum is usually derived from the Greek rheon, mentioned by Dioscorides as an alternative name for medicinal rhubarb; the word rheon is itself thought to be derived from the (old) Persian rewend. Dioscorides calls the plant rha, but mentions the Romans call it rha ponticum, and it was also called ria or rheon. It is theorised the Ancient Greek word rha was derived from an ancient Scythian name for the Volga River in Russia, Rā, near from where the plant was supposedly brought. (See .)

In 1936 Agnia Losina-Losinskaja in Vladimir Leontyevich Komarov's Flora SSSR recognised 22 native species for the USSR, and furthermore two introduced species, one variety, and one form. The 1989 Plants of Central Asia, dealing with a larger geographical remit, has Alisa E. Grabovskaya-Borodina recognising only 12 species, synonymising a great number. The Vascular plants of Russia and adjacent states of 1995 accepted 17 species for the states of the former USSR, re-recognising many of the taxa as species. In the Flora of China in 2003 Borodina and Bao Bojian recognise 38 species (of which 19 are endemic) in China, including a number Borodina considered synonyms in 1989. Intergeneric relationships
Rheum is placed in the family Polygonaceae, subfamily Polygonoideae. Within the subfamily, it is in the tribe Rumiceae, along with the two genera Oxyria and Rumex. It is most closely related to Rumex. Infrageneric classification
In the 1998 Flora Republicae popularis Sinicae A. R. Li proposed classifying the Chinese representatives of the genus into five sections. These sections are distinct morphologically, but as of 2010 studies in karyotypy, pollen morphology or molecular data (chloroplast DNA) have failed to elucidate interspecific relationships. Sect. Rheum - Generally mid-sized species with entire, un-lobed leaves and whitish flowers. Sect. Deserticola (Maxim.) Losinsk. - Smallish species native to harsh desert environments. Sect. Nobilia A.R. Li - Large, monocarpic, high altitude species from the Himalayas that create their own mini-greenhouse by having an inflorescence tightly protected by transparent bracts. Sect. Palmata Losinsk. - The largest rhubarbs to 2m tall, with palmate, or otherwise lobed, leaves and reddish flowers. Sect. Spiciforma A.R. Li - Generally stemless, high altitude species with curiously hard, leathery leaves and an inflorescence with thin, spike-like panicles. Including many dwarf species. Losinskaja used a slightly different classification in the Flora SSSR in 1936:
Sect. Acaulia Losinsk. Sect. Deserticola (Maxim.) Losinsk. Sect. Glabrifolia Losinsk. Sect. Palmata Losinsk. Sect. Rhapontica Losinsk. Sect. Ribesiformia Losinsk. Sect. Spiciformia Losinsk. Species

The genus is represented by about 50–60 extant species. The many cultivars of culinary rhubarb more usually grown for eating are recognised as Rheum × hybridum in the Royal Horticultural Society's list of recognised plant names. The drug rheum is prepared from the rhizomes and roots of another species, R. officinale or medicinal rhubarb. This species is also native to Asia, as is the turkey rhubarb, R. palmatum. Another species, the Sikkim rhubarb, R.