[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: Australian People for Health, Education and Development Abroad | Type: Instruction-QA | Level: Graduate]

Question: Provide a comprehensive expert-level explanation of Australian People for Health, Education and Development Abroad in the context of Applied Sciences.

Answer:
Australian People for Health, Education and Development Abroad (APHEDA), also known as Union Aid Abroad, is a non-government organisation of the Australian union movement. The non-government organisation was established in 1984 as the international aid agency of the Australian Council of Trade Unions. APHEDA was initiated in the pursuit of global justice through “stronger union and social movements, sustainable development programs, global solidarity and support in times of crisis”  in Southeast Asia, the Pacific, the Middle East, South Africa and the Caribbean. APHEDA is also a registered charity with the Australian Charities and Not for Profits Commission.

There are four key areas in which the APHEDA organisation intends to focus on, these are dignity at work, social justice, economic equality and the realisation of human rights.

History 

Helen McCue, a nurse practitioner originating from Australia, was employed in the Middle East as a nurse for the World Health Organization. Helen stated she was horrified by the harm to civilians which took place due to the Lebanese civil war, after the Sabra-Shatila massacre. Therefore, in 1982 she resigned from the World Health Organization to volunteer in Beirut refugee camps for the Palestinian Red Crescent.

In this volunteer position, McCue witnessed, in her words, "the deterioration of the physical, psychological, social and cultural well-being of four million Palestinians". McCue stated witness of this whilst working with the Palestinian Red Crescent was the inspiration to "broaden the base of support Palestinians and to somehow set up an organisation, based in union movement". Within Beirut refugee camps, McCue volunteered for the Palestine Red Crescent Society, a humanitarian organisation which act in the interest of the "health and welfare of the Palestinian people".

In 1983, McCue proposed the idea of a trade union-based international humanitarian organisation to Cliff Dolan, the leader of the Australian Council of Trade Unions (ACTU) at the time. This was supported and in 1984, the organisation to later be known as the Union Aid Abroad – Australian People for Health, Education and Development Abroad received its first two government grants for "humanitarian development assistance" to support overseas health workers.

At this point, the Australian Council of Trade Unions had officially contracted APHEDA as their international aid agency.

Key contributors

Helen McCue 
Helen McCue was an Australian, Catholic nurse who grew up in Canberra, Australia. In the early 1980s, McCue worked for the World Health Organization as a United Nations consultant to evaluate nursing services in the Middle East. McCue then transitioned into a role at the United Nations Relief and Workers for the Agency of Palestinians. It is here McCue worked in Bekker Valley with the refugee community. After the Sabra-Shatila massacre, McCue felt as if she had "failed to protect"  the refugee community in her role at the United Nations. Consequently, McCue left the organisation to volunteer in refugee camps. This inspired her to approach Cliff Dolan. McCue's intention for the development of APHEDA was to develop a network where various skilled workers with technical and vocational skills in the Australian community could “support the training of people in these refugee situations”. After founding APHEDA with Cliff Dolan in 1984, McCue was named the executive director. McCue set up several training programs in Australia for nurses abroad to develop critical nursing skills. This led to the establishment of a nurse training program in Lebanon. Further responsibilities of McCue in her time as executive director included “setting up infrastructure in Australia”, recruiting the alliance of international unions and was a key player in overseas project work, in Vietnam, the Philippines, South Africa and the Middle East.

Audrey McDonald 
Audrey McDonald was a second key contributor to the APHEDA organisation in its early days. McDonald was born in Sandy Flat and relocated with her mother to the Sydney city. At 17 years old, McDonald represented APHEDA at the 1955 Congress of the Food & Canning Workers Organisation in Sofia, Bulgaria. McDonald is said to have supported the APHEDA organisation on an ongoing basis directly and through her affiliations with the Union of Australian Women at which she was the national secretary. McDonald authored a novel with her husband Tom McDonald detailing their experiences in union aid. The funds of this novel contribute to funding a child South African nutrition project directed by APHEDA.

Goals and objectives 
The APHEDA organisation state their purpose is driven towards the achievement of four main areas:

 Dignity at work
 Social justice
 Economic equality
 The realisation of human rights

The organisation plans to achieve this via unions, social movements, sustainable development programs, global solidarity and crisis support.

The APHEDA organisation have identified five key values in which they endeavour to operate in line with. These values refer to solidarity, equality and justice, movement-building, accountability and partnership.

Funding 
APHEDA is registered with the Australian Charities and Not-for-profits Commission. The organisation derives their funding from "government funding, other grants, donations, fundraising and interest income". The Australian Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade funds several of Union-Aid-APHEDA's projects offshore. Members can pay a minimum membership fee of $15.00 a month which is also contributed to the funding of Union-Aid APHEDA's offshore projects and programs. As a registered "Australian Company Limited by Guarantee", the organisation must reinvest any profits obtained back into the charity's work. In the 2019–2020 financial year, received approximately  in donations and bequests,  from the Australian government and made $0 revenue from the provision of goods and services. In this time, appro