[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: laser tissue interaction ablation photothermal | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: laser tissue interaction ablation photothermal]

23. Lasers Med Sci. 2012 Jul;27(4):767-75. doi: 10.1007/s10103-011-0978-y. Epub
2011  Aug 13.

Comparison between laser-induced photoemissions and phototransmission of hard 
tissues using fibre-coupled Nd:YAG and Er(3+)-doped fibre lasers.

El-Sherif AF(1).

Author information:
(1)Engineering Physics Department, Military Technical College, Cairo, Egypt. 
ashraf.alsharif@staff.aast.edu

During pulsed laser irradiation of dental enamel, laser-induced photoemissions 
result from the laser-tissue interaction through mechanisms including 
fluorescence and plasma formation. Fluorescence induced by non-ablative laser 
light interaction has been used in tissue diagnosis, but the photoemission 
signal accompanying higher power ablative processes may also be used to provide 
real-time monitoring of the laser-tissue interaction. The spectral 
characteristics of the photoemission signals from normal and carious tooth 
enamel induced by two different pulsed lasers were examined. The radiation 
sources compared were a high-power extra-long Q-switched Nd:YAG laser operating 
at a wavelength of 1,066 nm giving pulses (with pulse durations in the range 
200-250 μs) in the near infrared and a free-running Er(3+)-doped ZBLAN fibre 
laser operating at a wavelength near 3 μm with similar pulse durations in the 
mid-infrared region. The photoemission spectra produced during pulsed laser 
irradiation of enamel samples were recorded using a high-resolution spectrometer 
with a CCD array detector that enabled an optical resolution as high as 0.02 nm 
(FWHM). The spectral and time-dependence of the laser-induced photoemission due 
to thermal emission and plasma formation were detected during pulsed laser 
irradiation of hard tissues and were used to distinguish between normal and 
carious teeth. The use of these effects to distinguish between hard and soft 
biological tissues during photothermal ablation with a pulsed Nd:YAG laser or an 
Er fibre laser appears feasible. The real-time spectrally resolved 
phototransmission spectrum produced during pulsed Nd:YAG laser irradiation of 
human tooth enamel samples was recorded, with a (normalized) relative 
transmission coefficient of 1 (100%) for normal teeth and 0.6 (60%) for the 
carious teeth. The photoemission signal accompanying ablative events may also be 
used to provide real-time monitoring of the laser-tissue interaction.

DOI: 10.1007/s10103-011-0978-y
PMID: 21842224 [Indexed for MEDLINE]