[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: The Herbalist — Meyer | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# The Herbalist — Meyer — Overview

David Copperfield:-- If it should appear from anything I may set down in this narrative that I was a child of close observation, or that as a man I have a strong memory of my childhood, I undoubtedly lay claim to both of these characteristics. His first introduction to the terrors of the law was an unspeakably sad one--sad, indeed, to his affectionate and imaginative nature. "I know,"
he writes, "that we got on very badly with the butcher and baker, that
very often we had not too much for dinner, and that at last my father was
arrested."  He never forgot--how could he, knowing what we know the lad
to have been?--often carrying messages to the dismal Marshalsea. "I
really believed," he wrote, "that they had broken my heart."  His first
visit to his father he thus describes:--

   My father was waiting for me in the lodge, and we went up to his room
   (on the top story but one), and cried very much. And he told me, I
   remember, to take warning by the Marshalsea, and to observe that if a
   man had twenty pounds a year and spent nineteen pounds nineteen
   shillings and sixpence, he would be happy, but that a shilling spent
   the other way would make him wretched. I see the fire we sat before
   now, with two bricks inside the rusted grate, one on each side, to
   prevent its burning too many coals. Some other debtor shared the room
   with him, who came in by-and-by; and as the dinner was a joint stock
   repast I was sent up to "Captain Porter" in the room overhead, with
   Mr. Dickens's compliments, and I was his son, and could he, Captain
   P., lend me a knife and fork? Captain Porter lent the knife and fork, with his compliments in
   return. There was a very dirty lady in his room, and two wan girls,
   his daughters, with shock heads of hair. I thought I should not have
   liked to borrow Captain Porter's comb. The Captain himself was in the
   last extremity of shabbiness; and if I could draw at all, I would draw
   an accurate portrait of the old, old, brown great-coat he wore, with
   no other coat below it. His whiskers were large. I saw his bed
   rolled up in a corner; and what plates, and dishes, and pots he had on
   a shelf; and I knew (God knows how!) that the two girls with the shock
   heads were Captain Porter's natural children, and that the dirty lady
   was not married to Captain P. My timid, wondering station on his
   threshold was not occupied more than a couple of minutes, I daresay;
   but I came down to the room below with all this as surely in my
   knowledge as the knife and fork were in my hand. When the stern necessities of the situation required the detention of Mr. Pickwick in the old Fleet Prison, we have produced a lifelike
representation of the debtors' gaol; and I believe that the reforms which
have made such an institution a thing of the past are in a great part
owing to the vivid recollection which enabled him to point to the horrors
and injustice which were practised in the sacred name of law. At the age of fifteen we find Dickens a bright, clever-looking youth in
the office of Mr. Edward Blackmore, attorney-at-law in Gray's Inn,
earning at first 13_s_. 6_d_. a week, afterwards advanced to 15_s_. Eighteen months' experience of this sort enabled him in the pages of
Pickwick thus to describe lawyers' clerks:--

   There are several grades of lawyers' clerks. There is the articled
   clerk, who has paid a premium, and is an attorney in perspective, who
   runs a tailor's bill, receives invitations to parties, knows a family
   in Gower Street, and another in Tavistock Square; who goes out of town
   every Long Vacation to see his father, who keeps live horses
   innumerable; and who is, in short, the very aristocrat of clerks. There is the salaried clerk--out of door, or in door, as the case may
   be--who devotes the major part of his thirty shillings a week to his
   personal pleasure and adornment, repairs half-price to the Adelphi
   Theatre at least three times a week, dissipates majestically at the
   cider cellars afterwards, and is a dirty caricature of the fashion
   which expired six months ago. There is the middle-aged copying clerk,
   with a large family, who is always shabby, and often drunk. And there
   are the office lads in their first surtouts, who feel a befitting
   contempt for boys at day-schools; club as they go home at night for
   saveloys and porter: and think there's nothing like "life."

I fancy Dickens never rose above the status of office boy, and probably
as such wore his first surtout. We hear of him reporting later in the
Lord Chancellor's Court, probably for some daily paper; but beyond the
exception which I shall mention presently, we have no record of his
taking an active and direct part in any of those mysterious rites that go
to make up our legal procedure. Upon this question of the opportunities he had for knowing in what way a
lawyer is trained, I must here acknowledge the debt of gratitude that I
am under to my very good friend Mr.