[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: Herbals: Their Origin and Evolution — Arber | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Herbals: Their Origin and Evolution — Arber — Overview

letter to the like effect from the surgeon of the privateer, addressed to a gentleman of this city. The letter reads as follows: "CHERBOURG, _June 14, 1864_. DEAR TRAVERS--Here we are. I send this by a gentleman coming to London. An enemy is outside. _If she only stays long enough, we go out and fight her._ If I live, expect to see me in London shortly. If I
    die, give my best love to all who know me. If Monsieur A. de Caillet
    should call on you, please show him every attention. "I remain, dear Travers, ever yours,
    "D. H. LLEWELLYN."

There were two brave gentlemen on board the Alabama--poor Llewellyn, who
nobly refused to save his own life, by leaving his wounded, and a young
Lieutenant, Mr. Joseph Wilson, who honourably delivered up his sword on
the deck of the Kearsarge, when the other officers threw theirs into the
water. The most unanswerable proof of Captain Semmes having challenged the
commander of the Kearsarge is to be found in the following letter
addressed by him to the Confederate consul, or agent, at Cherbourg. After
the publication of this document, it is to be hoped we shall hear no more
of Captain Winslow's having committed such a breach of discipline and
etiquette as that of challenging a rebel against his Government. CAPTAIN SEMMES' CHALLENGE TO THE KEARSARGE. "C. S. S. ALABAMA,
    "CHERBOURG, _June 14, 1864_. "To Ad. BONFILS, _Cherbourg_:

    "SIR--I hear that you were informed by the U. S. Consul, that the
    Kearsarge was to come to this port solely for the prisoners landed by
    me,[8] and that she was to depart in twenty-four hours. I desire you
    to say to the U. S. Consul, that my intention is to fight the
    Kearsarge as soon as I can make the necessary arrangements. I hope
    these will not detain me more than until tomorrow evening, or after
    the morrow morning at farthest. I beg she will not depart before I am
    ready to go out. "I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,

    "R. SEMMES, _Captain_."

Numerous facts serve to prove that Captain Semmes had made every
preparation to engage the Kearsarge, and that wide-spread publicity had
been given to his intention. As soon as the arrival of the Federal vessel
was known at Paris, an American gentleman of high position came down to
Cherbourg, with instructions for Captain Winslow; but so desirous were the
French authorities to preserve a really honest neutrality, that permission
was only granted to him to sail to her after his promise to return to
shore immediately on the delivery of his message. Once back in Cherbourg,
and about to return to Paris, he was advised to remain over night, _as the
Alabama intended to fight the Kearsarge next day_ (Sunday). On Sunday
morning, an excursion train arrived from the Capital, and the visitors
were received at the terminus of the railway by the boatmen of the port,
who offered them boats for the purpose of seeing _a genuine naval battle
which was to take place during the day_. Turning such a memorable
occurrence to practical uses, Monsieur Rondin, a celebrated photographic
artist on the _Place d'Armes_ at Cherbourg, prepared the necessary
chemicals, plates, and _camera_, and placed himself on the summit of the
old church tower which the whilome denizens of Cherbourg had very properly
built in happy juxtaposition with his establishment. I was only able to
see the negative, but that was quite sufficient to show that the artist
had obtained a very fine view indeed of the exciting contest. Five days,
however, had elapsed since Captain Semmes sent his challenge to Captain
Winslow through the Confederate agent, Monsieur Bonfils; surely time
sufficient for him to make all the preparations which he considered
necessary. Meanwhile the Kearsarge was cruising to and fro at sea, outside
the breakwater. The Kearsarge reached Cherbourg on the 14th, and her Captain only heard of
Captain Semmes' intention to fight him on the following day. Five days,
however, elapsed before the Alabama put in an appearance, and her exit
from the harbour was heralded by the English yacht Deerhound. The officer
on watch aboard the Kearsarge made out a three-masted vessel steaming from
the harbour, the movements of which were somewhat mysterious; after
remaining a short time only, this steamer, which subsequently proved to be
the Deerhound, went back into port; only returning to sea a few minutes in
advance of the Alabama, and the French iron-clad La Couronne. Mr. Lancaster, her owner, sends a copy of his log to the _Times_, the first
two entries being as follows:

"Sunday, June 19, 9 A. M.--Got up steam and proceeded out of Cherbourg
harbour. "10.30.--Observed the 'Alabama' steaming out of the harbour towards the
Federal steamer 'Kearsarge.'"[9]

Mr. Lancaster does not inform us why an English gentleman should choose a
Sunday morning, of all days in the week, to cruise about at an early hour
with ladies on board, nor does he supply the public with information as to
the movements of the Deerhound during the hour and a half which elapsed
between his exit from the harbour and the appearance of the Alabama.