[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: Ultrafast laser spectroscopy | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Ultrafast laser spectroscopy — Overview

are stirred during measurement making relatively long-time kinetics difficult to measure due to flow and diffusion. Unlike time-correlated single photon counting (TCSPC), this technique can be carried out on non-fluorescent samples. It can also be performed on non-transmissive samples in a reflection geometry. Ultrafast transient absorption can use almost any probe light, so long as the probe is of a pertinent wavelength or set of wavelengths. A monochromator and photomultiplier tube in place of the avalanche photodiode array allows observation of a single probe wavelength, and thus allows probing of the decay kinetics of the excited species. The purpose of this setup is to take kinetic measurements of species that are otherwise nonradiative, and specifically it is useful for observing species that have short-lived and non-phosphorescent populations within the triplet manifold as part of their decay path. The pulsed laser in this setup is used both as a primary excitation source, and a clock signal for the ultrafast measurements. Although laborious and time-consuming, the monochromator position may also be shifted to allow absorbance decay profiles to be constructed, ultimately to the same effect as the above method. The data of UTA measurements usually are reconstructed absorption spectra sequenced over the delay time between the pump and probe. Each spectrum resembles a normal steady-state absorption profile of the sample after the delay time of the excitation with the time resolution convoluted from the pump and probe time resolutions. The excitation wavelength is blinded by the pump laser and cut out. The rest of the spectra usually have a few bands such as ground-state absorption, excited-state absorption, and stimulated emission. Under normal conditions, the angles of the emission are randomly orientated and not detected in the absorption geometry. But in UTA measurement, the stimulated emission resembles the lasing effect, is highly oriented, and is detected. Many times this emission overlaps with the absorption bands and needs to be deconvoluted for quantitative analysis. The relationship and correlation among these bands can be visualized using the classical spectroscopic two-dimensional correlation analysis. Time-resolved photoelectron spectroscopy and two-photon photoelectron spectroscopy
Time-resolved photoelectron spectroscopy and two-photon photoelectron spectroscopy (2PPE) combine a pump-probe scheme with angle-resolved photoemission. A first laser pulse is used to excite a material, a second laser pulse ionizes the system. The kinetic energy of the electrons from this process is then detected, through various methods including energy mapping, time of flight measurements etc. As above, the process is repeated many times, with different time delays between the probe pulse and the pump pulse. This builds up a picture of how the molecule relaxes over time. A variation of this method looks at the positive ions created in this process and is called time-resolved photo-ion spectroscopy (TRPIS)

Multidimensional spectroscopy
Using the same principles pioneered by 2D-NMR experiments, multidimensional optical or infrared spectroscopy is possible using ultrafast pulses. Different frequencies can probe various dynamic molecular processes to differentiate between inhomogeneous and homogeneous line broadening as well as identify coupling between the measured spectroscopic transitions. If two oscillators are coupled together, be it intramolecular vibrations or intermolecular electronic coupling, the added dimensionality will resolve anharmonic responses not identifiable in linear spectra. A typical 2D pulse sequence consists of an initial pulse to pump the system into a coherent superposition of states, followed by a phase conjugate second pulse that pushes the system into a non-oscillating excited state, and finally, a third pulse that converts back to a coherent state that produces a measurable pulse. A 2D frequency spectrum can then be recorded by plotting the Fourier transform of the delay between the first and second pulses on one axis, and the Fourier transform of the delay between a detection pulse relative to the signal-producing third pulse on the other axis. 2D spectroscopy is an example of a four-wave mixing experiment, and the wavevector of the signal will be the sum of the three incident wavevectors used in the pulse sequence. Multidimensional spectroscopies exist in infrared and visible variants as well as combinations using different wavelength regions. Ultrafast imaging
Most ultrafast imaging techniques are variations on standard pump-probe experiments. Some commonly used techniques are Electron Diffraction imaging, Kerr Gated Microscopy, imaging with ultrafast electron pulses  and terahertz imaging. This is particularly true in the biomedical community where safe and non-invasive techniques for diagnosis are always of interest. Terahertz imaging has recently been used to identify areas of decay in tooth enamel and image the layers of the skin.