[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: magnetic resonance spectroscopy metabolite brain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: magnetic resonance spectroscopy metabolite brain]

94. Neurochem Int. 2019 Jul;127:113-124. doi: 10.1016/j.neuint.2019.01.025. Epub 
2019 Jan 30.

Local and systemic metabolic alterations in brain, plasma, and liver of rats in 
response to aging and ischemic stroke, as detected by nuclear magnetic resonance 
(NMR) spectroscopy.

Wesley UV(1), Bhute VJ(2), Hatcher JF(3), Palecek SP(2), Dempsey RJ(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurological Surgery, University of Wisconsin, Madison, WI, 
53792, USA. Electronic address: u.wesley@neurosurgery.wisc.edu.
(2)Department of Chemical and Biological Engineering, University of Wisconsin, 
Madison, WI, 53792, USA.
(3)Department of Neurological Surgery, University of Wisconsin, Madison, WI, 
53792, USA.

Metabolic dysfunction impacts stroke incidence and outcome. However, the 
intricate association between altered metabolic program due to aging, and focal 
ischemia in brain, circulation, and peripheral organs is not completely 
elucidated. Here we identified locally and systemically altered metabolites in 
brain, liver, and plasma as a result of normal aging, ischemic-stroke, and 
extended time of reperfusion injury. Comprehensive quantitative metabolic 
profiling was carried out using nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy. Aging, 
but healthy rats showed significant metabolic alterations in the brain, but only 
a few metabolic changes in the liver and plasma as compared to younger rats. 
But, ischemic stroke altered metabolites significantly in liver and plasma of 
older rats during early acute phase. Major metabolic changes were also seen in 
the brains of younger rats following ischemic stroke during early acute phase of 
injury. We further report that metabolic changes occur sequentially in a tissue 
specific manner during extended reperfusion time of late repair phase. First 
metabolic alterations occurred in brain due to local injury. Next, changes in 
circulating metabolites in plasma occurred during acute-repair phase transition 
time. Lastly, the delayed systemic effect was seen in the peripheral organ, 
liver that exhibited significant and persistent changes in selected metabolites 
during later reperfusion time. The metabolic pathways involved in 
energy/glucose, and amino acid metabolism, inflammation, and oxidative stress 
were mainly altered as a result of aging and ischemia/reperfusion. Biomarker 
analysis revealed citrate, lysine, and tyrosine as potential age-independent 
blood metabolic biomarkers of ischemia/reperfusion. Overall, our study 
elucidates the complex network of metabolic events as a function of normal aging 
and acute stroke. We further provide evidence for a clear transition from local 
to systemic metabolic dysfunction due to ischemic injury in a time dependent 
manner, which may altogether greatly impact the post-stroke outcome.

Copyright © 2019. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuint.2019.01.025
PMID: 30707914 [Indexed for MEDLINE]