[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: MRI physics image quality artifact reduction | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: MRI physics image quality artifact reduction]

92. Magn Reson Imaging. 2006 Sep;24(7):903-15. doi: 10.1016/j.mri.2006.03.001.
Epub  2006 Apr 27.

k-space inherited parallel acquisition (KIPA): application on dynamic magnetic 
resonance imaging thermometry.

Guo JY(1), Kholmovski EG, Zhang L, Jeong EK, Parker DL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Physics, University of Utah, Salt Lake City, UT 84108, USA. 
jguo@ucair.med.utah.edu

In this study, a novel method for dynamic parallel image acquisition and 
reconstruction is presented. In this method, called k-space inherited parallel 
acquisition (KIPA), localized reconstruction coefficients are used to achieve 
higher reduction factors, and lower noise and artifact levels compared to that 
of generalized autocalibrating partially parallel acquisition (GRAPPA) 
reconstruction. In KIPA, the full k-space for the first frame and the partial 
k-space for later frames are required to reconstruct a whole series of images. 
Reconstruction coefficients calculated for different segments of k-space from 
the first frame data set are used to estimate missing k-space lines in 
corresponding k-space segments of other frames. The local determination of KIPA 
reconstruction coefficients is essential to adjusting them according to the 
local signal-to-noise ratio characteristics of k-space data. The proposed 
algorithm is applicable to dynamic imaging with arbitrary k-space sampling 
trajectories. Simulations of magnetic resonance thermometry using the KIPA 
method with a reduction factor of 6 and using dynamic imaging studies of human 
subjects with reduction factors of 4 and 6 have been performed to prove the 
feasibility of our method and to show apparent improvement in image quality in 
comparison with GRAPPA for dynamic imaging.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mri.2006.03.001
PMID: 16916708 [Indexed for MEDLINE]