[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: photodynamic therapy cancer clinical trial | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: photodynamic therapy cancer clinical trial]

69. Photodiagnosis Photodyn Ther. 2016 Mar;13:330-333. doi: 
10.1016/j.pdpdt.2015.09.004. Epub 2015 Sep 28.

Randomised controlled trial of temoporfin photodynamic therapy plus chemotherapy 
in nonresectable biliary carcinoma--PCS Nordic study.

Hauge T(1), Hauge PW(2), Warloe T(3), Drolsum A(4), Johansen C(4), Viktil E(4), 
Aabakken L(5), Buanes T(6), Konopski Z(7).

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Gastroenterology, Oslo University Hospital, Norway; Institute of 
Clinical Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, University of Oslo, Norway. Electronic 
address: truls.hauge@medisin.uio.no.
(2)Dept. of Oncology, Oslo University Hospital, Norway.
(3)Dept. of Gastroenterology, Oslo University Hospital, Norway; Division of 
Cancer, Surgery and Transplantation, Oslo University Hospital, Norway.
(4)Dept. of Radiology and Nuclear Medicine, Oslo University Hospital, Norway.
(5)Section of Gastroenterology, Oslo University Hospital, Norway; Institute of 
Clinical Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, University of Oslo, Norway.
(6)Division of Cancer, Surgery and Transplantation, Oslo University Hospital, 
Norway; Institute of Clinical Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, University of Oslo, 
Norway.
(7)Dept. of Gastroenterology, Oslo University Hospital, Norway.

BACKGROUND: Photodynamic therapy (PDT) in combination with stent have shown 
promising results in the treatment of biliary tract cancer (BTC) in patients not 
suitable for surgery. Chemotherapy has been shown to improve survival in 
patients with local advanced and metastatic BTC.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: In the current randomized trial the combination of 
chemotherapy and stent with and without temoporfin (Foscan) photodynamic therapy 
(PDT), with a primary endpoint on feasibility and safety, has been performed. 
Ten patients in each group.
RESULTS: No serious, acute procedure-related complication related to PDT or the 
treatment combination was seen. The number of patients with cholangitis was 
equal in both groups. In the PDT group--arm A--two patients had cutaneous 
erythema after sun exposition, one of them with a localized blister. No 
neutropenic infection was seen. Quality of Life (QoL) was similar in both 
treatment groups. Progression free survival was numerically longer in the PDT 
group.
CONCLUSION: The treatment combination was feasible. There was no serious 
complication related to PDT or the treatment combination. Number of cholangitis 
was equal in both groups, two abscesses were observed in the PDT group. 
Progression free survival was numerically longer in the PDT group.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pdpdt.2015.09.004
PMID: 26415549 [Indexed for MEDLINE]