[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: laser tissue interaction ablation photothermal | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: laser tissue interaction ablation photothermal]

26. Acc Chem Res. 2016 Apr 19;49(4):678-86. doi: 10.1021/acs.accounts.6b00041.
Epub  2016 Apr 1.

Reshaping, Fragmentation, and Assembly of Gold Nanoparticles Assisted by Pulse 
Lasers.

González-Rubio G(1)(2), Guerrero-Martínez A(1), Liz-Marzán LM(2)(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Química Física I, Universidad Complutense de Madrid , Avda. 
Complutense s/n, 28040 Madrid, Spain.
(2)BioNanoPlasmonics Laboratory, CIC biomaGUNE , Paseo de Miramón 182, 20009 
Donostia - San Sebastián, Spain.
(3)Ikerbasque, Basque Foundation for Science , 48013 Bilbao, Spain.
(4)Biomedical Research Networking Center in Bioengineering, Biomaterials, and 
Nanomedicine, CIBER-BBN , Spain.

The vast majority of the outstanding applications of metal nanoparticles (NPs) 
developed during the last two decades have arisen from their unique optical 
properties. Within this context, rational synthesis and assembly of gold NPs 
have been the main research focus, aiming at the design of nanoplasmonic devices 
with tailored optical functionalities. The progress made in this field is thus 
to be ascribed to the understanding of the origin of the interaction between 
light and such gold nanostructures, the dynamics of which have been thoroughly 
investigated with significant contributions from short and ultrashort pulse 
laser technologies. We focus this Account on the potential of pulse lasers to 
provide new fundamental insights into the electron dynamics involved in the 
interaction of light with the free conduction electrons of Au NPs, that is, 
localized surface plasmon resonances (LSPRs). The excitation of LSPRs with a 
femtosecond pulse laser is followed by thermalization of the Au NP electrons and 
the subsequent relaxation of the nanocrystal lattice and the surrounding 
environment, which generally results in surface melting. By contrast, nanosecond 
irradiation usually induces AuNP fragmentation and uncontrolled melting due to 
overlapping excitation and relaxation phenomena. These concepts have been 
exploited toward the preparation of highly monodisperse gold nanospheres via 
pulse laser irradiation of polyhedral nanocrystal colloids, or in the 
fabrication of nanostructures with "written-in" optical properties. The 
applicability of pulsed coherent light has been extended toward the direct 
synthesis and manipulation of Au NPs. Through ablation of a gold target in a 
liquid with pulse lasers, spherical Au NPs can be synthesized with no need of 
stabilizing ligands, which is a great advantage in terms of reducing toxicity, 
rendering these NPs particularly suitable for medical applications. In addition, 
femtosecond laser irradiation has been proven a unique tool for the controlled 
welding of plasmonic gold nanostructures by electromagnetic field enhancement at 
the hot spots of assembled Au NPs. The combination of such nanostructures with 
pulse lasers promises significant chemical and biochemical advances, including 
the structural determination of organic reaction intermediates, the 
investigation of phase transitions in inorganic nanomaterials at mild reaction 
conditions, or the efficient photothermal destruction of cancer cells avoiding 
damage of surrounding tissue.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.accounts.6b00041
PMCID: PMC4838951
PMID: 27035211

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing financial 
interest.