[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Propulsion Mechanics | Topic: Flying Machines — W.J. Jackman (early aerodynamics) | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Flying Machines — W.J. Jackman (early aerodynamics) — Overview

A Treatise Of Daunses, wherin it is shewed, that they are as it were
accessories and dependants (or thynges annexed) to whoredome: where
also by the way is touched and proued, that _Playes are ioyned and
knit togeather in a rancke or rowe with them._

I. Thessal. 5. _Let eurie one possesse his vessel in holines and honor._

Anno 1581. A Treatise of Daunses, in which is shewed, that daunses bee
intisementes to whoredome, and that the abuse of playes ought not to
be among Christians. I Doubt not, but that some, into whose handes this little treatise
shall come, will thinke me to be at greate leasure, that haue
enterprised largely to leuie out and handle this argument: which to
their seeming is not otherwise of great importaunce. For be it that
daunses were allowed or condemned, or els yet they were putt in the
rowe of thinges indifferent men might easily iudge according to their
opinion, that that should not bring great profit or hurt to our
christian common wealth, seeing that ther are diuers pointes of
greater weight and consequence, which trouble the spirits of manye
learned men, & make afraide the consciences of the weake and simple
ones: which poyntes haue verye much nede to be opened and made plaine,
rather then to trouble a mans selfe to write agaynst playes and
daunses. Furthermore men should be in very great forwardnes, if euery
thinge were so well refourmed, that they were come euen unto daunses,
that is to say, that all that which is corrupted, and those abuses
which beare the sway among Christians were so cut off, and this so
sick a body againe so wel restored to his soundnes and health, that
there should remayne nothing els but to debate the question of leaping
skippings and daunses. Ther will be found an other manner & sort of people, who will make no
accoumpte at all to mocke at this matter: as indeede the world is ful
of mockers, and men without Godlines, without God, and without
religion. Now as concerninge these persons, they deserue no manner of
aunsweare at al, because they do as soone scoffe at the principall
pointes of christian religion, and that which directly concerneth the
seruice of God, as matters of lesse weight and importaunce. Wherefore
I not much regarding or caringe for the iudgement of such iudges, will
let them runne to the water with the bridle uppon their head, or in
their necke, as they say. But as touchinge the first, because they bee
not altogeather malicious and obstinate, I hope, that ha= uing
aunsweared their obiections, and declared the reasons which haue
moued, yea rather driuen me forward or inforsed mee to descipher and
sett out this matter, they will iudge my labour not to haue bene
altogeather unprofitable. It is then in the first place to bee wished and desired, that troubles
beyng pacified, and all dissentions repressed, and put out, the
spirits and consciences of men, should be assured and thorowly
perswaded of that which appertaineth to their saluation. And indeede
our Lorde hath stirred and raised up so perfect an age in al sciences
& know= ledge, in which so many learned men, and of excellent learning
and knowledge, haue so blessedly and diligently imployed them= selues
to teach us the order and maner to liue well, some after one sort and
fashion, and some after an other, that those which be not yet
satisfyed, can not, or ought not, to lay the fault in any but in
themselues. Next all good men ought to wishe and desire that those which put their
hande to (this is to say trauaile for) the reformation of maners,
should do it with such good argumentes, that there shoulde remayne, or
be left, but euen a very litle to be corrected and amended. And yet
this wish & desire should not let or hinder the trauaile of such as do
indeuor to pull up by the rootes such herbes as be hurtful to the
field of the Lord, be they neuer so small and little: and I do, or
which thing I labour to do in this little boke according to the
talente & graces which are geuen me from aboue. Adde also that if any do deeply & seasonably consider this matter, I
hope he shal not finde it so barren and of little edification, that it
ought to be dispised or troden under foote: for many men of quality
(yea euen in the company of notable personages) of name and authority,
make no conscience to demaunde and aske whether it be yll done to
daunce, demaunding also a formall or playne parcell and text of
Scripture, by which it may appeare that daunses be prohibited and
forbidden, otherwise they think not that they do euill in
daunsing. Some others goe further and alledging or rather indeede
abusing some peece of the Scripture, where it appeareth that the
faithfull haue leaped and daunsed: they thinke verily that they haue
founde the beane in the cake, as though this were a proper couerture &
cloke to couer the infection and filthines of their daunces. Seyng then that many be foulie & grosely deceaued in this behalfe, and
that possible for want of beyng sufficiently instructed and informed
or taught touching this matter, I haue bene so much the more willing
to ease them in this question, by how much I hope to profit in common,
that is, to do good to the greatest multitude, as also being willing
hereby to satisfy some which haue earnestly and instantly required it
at my handes.