[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: Proanthocyanidin | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Proanthocyanidin — Overview

Proanthocyanidins are a class of polyphenols found in many plants, such as cranberry, blueberry, and grape seeds. Chemically, they are oligomeric flavonoids. Many are oligomers of catechin and epicatechin and their gallic acid esters. More complex polyphenols, having the same polymeric building block, form the group of tannins. Proanthocyanidins were discovered in 1947 by Jacques Masquelier, who developed and patented techniques for the extraction of oligomeric proanthocyanidins from pine bark and grape seeds. Proanthocyanidins are under preliminary research for the potential to reduce the risk of urinary tract infections (UTIs) by consuming cranberries, grape seeds or red wine. Distribution in plants 
Proanthocyanidins, including the lesser bioactive and bioavailable polymers (four or more catechins), represent a group of condensed flavan-3-ols, such as procyanidins, prodelphinidins and propelargonidins. They can be found in many plants, most notably apples, maritime pine bark and that of most other pine species, cinnamon, aronia fruit, cocoa beans, grape seed, grape skin (procyanidins and prodelphinidins), and red wines of Vitis vinifera (the European wine grape). However, bilberry, cranberry, black currant, green tea, black tea, and other plants also contain these flavonoids. Cocoa beans contain the highest concentrations. Proanthocyanidins also may be isolated from Quercus petraea and Q. robur heartwood (wine barrel oaks). Açaí oil, obtained from the fruit of the açaí palm (Euterpe oleracea), is rich in numerous procyanidin oligomers. Apples contain on average per serving about eight times the amount of proanthocyanidin found in wine, with some of the highest amounts found in the Red Delicious and Granny Smith varieties. An extract of maritime pine bark called Pycnogenol bears 65–75 percent proanthocyanidins (procyanidins). Thus a 100 mg serving would contain 65 to 75 mg of proanthocyanidins (procyanidins). Proanthocyanidin glycosides can be isolated from cocoa liquor. The seed testas of field beans (Vicia faba) contain proanthocyanidins that affect the digestibility in piglets and could have an inhibitory activity on enzymes. Cistus salviifolius also contains oligomeric proanthocyanidins. Analysis 
Condensed tannins may be characterised by a number of techniques including depolymerisation, asymmetric flow field flow fractionation or small-angle X-ray scattering. DMACA is a dye that is particularly useful for localization of proanthocyanidin compounds in plant histology. The use of the reagent results in blue staining. It can also be used to titrate proanthocyanidins. Proanthocyanidins from field beans (Vicia faba) or barley have been estimated using the vanillin-HCl method, resulting in a red color of the test in the presence of catechins or proanthocyanidins. Proanthocyanidins can be titrated using the Procyanidolic Index (also called the Bates-Smith Assay). It is a testing method that measures the change in color when the product is mixed with certain chemicals. The greater the color changes, the higher the PCOs content is. However, the Procyanidolic Index is a relative value that can measure well over 100. Unfortunately, a Procyanidolic Index of 95 was erroneously taken to mean 95% PCO by some and began appearing on the labels of finished products. All current methods of analysis suggest that the actual PCO content of these products is much lower than 95%. Gel permeation chromatography (GPC) analysis allows separation of monomers from larger proanthocyanidin molecules. Monomers of proanthocyanidins can be characterized by analysis with HPLC and mass spectrometry. Condensed tannins can undergo acid-catalyzed cleavage in the presence of a nucleophile like phloroglucinol (reaction called phloroglucinolysis), thioglycolic acid (thioglycolysis), benzyl mercaptan or cysteamine (processes called thiolysis) leading to the formation of oligomers that can be further analyzed. Tandem mass spectrometry can be used to sequence proanthocyanidins. Oligomeric proanthocyanidins
Oligomeric proanthocyanidins (OPC) strictly refer to dimer and trimer polymerizations of catechins. OPCs are found in most plants and thus are common in the human diet. Especially the skin, seeds, and seed coats of purple or red pigmented plants contain large amounts of OPCs. They are dense in grape seeds and skin, and therefore in red wine and grape seed extract, cocoa, nuts and all Prunus fruits (most concentrated in the skin), and in the bark of Cinnamomum (cinnamon) and Pinus pinaster (pine bark; formerly known as Pinus maritima), along with many other pine species. OPCs also can be found in blueberries, cranberries (notably procyanidin A2), aronia, hawthorn, rosehip, and sea buckthorn. Oligomeric proanthocyanidins can be extracted via Vaccinium pahalae from in vitro cell culture. The US Department of Agriculture maintains a database of botanical and food sources of proanthocyanidins. Plant defense
In nature, proanthocyanidins serve among other chemical and induced defense mechanisms against plant pathogens and predators, such as occurs in strawberries.