[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: photodynamic therapy cancer clinical trial | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: photodynamic therapy cancer clinical trial]

23. Photodiagnosis Photodyn Ther. 2025 Oct;55:104704. doi: 
10.1016/j.pdpdt.2025.104704. Epub 2025 Jul 7.

High-dose oral vitamin D in combination with photodynamic therapy can accelerate 
the clearance rate of basal cell carcinoma: A randomized clinical trial.

Maytin EV(1), Zeitouni NC(2), Updyke A(3), Negrey JT(4), Shen AS(5), Heusinkveld 
LE(6), Mack JA(7), Hu B(8), Anand S(9), Maytin TA(10), Giostra L(10), Bullock 
T(3), Warren CB(11), Hasan T(12).

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Dermatology, Cleveland, OH, USA; Dept. of Biomedical Engineering, 
Cleveland, OH, USA; Cleveland Clinic Lerner College of Medicine of Case Western 
Reserve University School of Medicine, Cleveland, OH, USA; Wellman Center for 
Photomedicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA, USA. Electronic 
address: maytine@ccf.org.
(2)Medical Dermatology Specialists and University of Arizona College of 
Medicine, Phoenix, AZ, USA.
(3)Dept. of Dermatology, Cleveland, OH, USA.
(4)Clinical Research Unit, Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, OH, USA.
(5)Cleveland Clinic Lerner College of Medicine of Case Western Reserve 
University School of Medicine, Cleveland, OH, USA.
(6)Depts of Pathology, Massachusetts General Hospital and Brigham and Women's 
Hospital, Boston, MA, USA.
(7)Dept. of Biomedical Engineering, Cleveland, OH, USA.
(8)Dept. of Quantitative Health Sciences, Cleveland, OH, USA.
(9)Dept. of Dermatology, Cleveland, OH, USA; Dept. of Biomedical Engineering, 
Cleveland, OH, USA; Cleveland Clinic Lerner College of Medicine of Case Western 
Reserve University School of Medicine, Cleveland, OH, USA.
(10)Medocity, Inc, Parsippany NJ, USA.
(11)Dept. of Dermatology, Cleveland, OH, USA; Cleveland Clinic Lerner College of 
Medicine of Case Western Reserve University School of Medicine, Cleveland, OH, 
USA.
(12)Wellman Center for Photomedicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, 
MA, USA.

BACKGROUND: Combining Vitamin D (VD) with photodynamic therapy (PDT) increases 
the clearance of actinic keratosis, but whether this might also be true for 
basal cell carcinoma (BCC) was unknown.
PATIENT AND METHODS: In an intra-patient, randomized clinical trial, 35 patients 
with multiple BCC received 3 sessions of PDT using 20 % ALA (4 hr incubation) 
and 417 nm light. PDT was preceded by randomized pretreatments with either oral 
VD (10,000 international units) or placebo. Tumor size was monitored at each 
visit using 3-D photogrammetry to measure changes in lesion volume and height 
between visits, at submillimeter accuracy. Tumors that failed to resolve were 
biopsied.
RESULTS: Amongst 122 BCC tumors, 70 % (superficial and nodular subtypes) cleared 
completely, whereas 30 % (mainly aggressive histological subtypes) were 
PDT-resistant. To ask whether VD can alter the trajectory of BCC tumor 
clearance, 49 tumors that were visible at all 5 study visits were evaluated 
using kinetic slope analysis. Using a 3D photogrammetric height threshold that 
allows stratification of tumors into two PDT response categories (likely 
responders versus non-responders), we demonstrated that a majority (65 %) of 
thin tumors were responsive to VD (showed enhanced rate of clearance), versus 
only 22 % of thick tumors responded to VD. Some thin BCCs with aggressive 
histologic subtypes also responded to VD + PDT.
CONCLUSIONS: PDT can be used to treat relatively thin BCC, but the addition of 
oral high-dose VD makes PDT even more effective. Neoadjuvant VD combined with 
PDT is safe and can hasten the resolution of appropriately selected BCC tumors.

Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pdpdt.2025.104704
PMID: 40633744 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare no potential conflicts of interest.