[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: laser dermatology skin treatment tattoo hair | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: laser dermatology skin treatment tattoo hair]

21. Presse Med. 2002 Feb 9;31(5):223-31.

[Indications for medical lasers in dermatology].

[Article in French]

Mazer JM(1).

Author information:
(1)Hôpital Bichat, Service de Dermatologie, 46, rue H. Huchard, F75018 Paris. 
JMMazer@aol.com

FOUR CATEGORIES OF LASERS ARE USED IN DERMATOLOGY: These are vascular, 
depigmentation, depilatory or resurfacing or vaporization lasers. Today, there 
are more potential or suggested indications than good methodological studies 
that confirm these indications. Nevertheless, there are indisputable indications 
for these lasers.
VASCULAR LASERS: They are indicated in the treatment of capillary nevus in 
adults and children and, with pulsed dye lasers, infants can be treated within 
the first weeks of life. Another indication for vascular lasers is treatment of 
Stage II rosacea, i.e., at the stage of telangiectasic erythrosis or couperose. 
Other indications include radiodermatitis, ulcerated hemangioma and erythrosis 
of the neck.
DEPILATORY LASERS: Treatment of patients with pale phototype and dark hairs 
appears possible. However, around 4 to 6 sessions are required to obtain 
significant lasting hair removal.
DEPIGMENTATION LASERS: The best indications are the removal of tattoos, Ota's 
nevus and, to a lesser degree, liver spots and Becker's nevus. Melasma and 
chloasma are not indications or exeresis of nevo-cellular nevi using this 
technique, since no histological control is possible. PULSED VAPORIZATION LASERS 
(CO2 OR ERBIUM LASER): They permit dermabrasion in the treatment of verrucous 
harmatoma, extensive benign superficial dermo-epidermal lesions and the esthetic 
treatment of non-muscular wrinkles, i.e., excepting wrinkles of the forehead and 
nasal sulcus. Continuous CO2 lasers destroy small dermo-epidermal lesions. They 
are particularly indicated for profuse lesions, in which there is a risk of 
hemorrhage or when direct contact should be avoided because of potential HIV 
infection.
CONCLUSION: There are many potential indications, but a consensus has only been 
reached on those mentioned. The others remain to be confirmed.

PMID: 11878141 [Indexed for MEDLINE]