[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: ethnobotany traditional medicine biological activi | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: ethnobotany traditional medicine biological activity]

69. J Ethnopharmacol. 2008 Oct 28;119(3):482-500. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2008.08.022.
 Epub 2008 Aug 30.

The potential of South African plants against Mycobacterium infections.

McGaw LJ(1), Lall N, Meyer JJ, Eloff JN.

Author information:
(1)Phytomedicine Programme, Department of Paraclinical Sciences, Faculty of 
Veterinary Science, University of Pretoria, Private Bag X04, Onderstepoort 0110, 
South Africa. lyndy.mcgaw@up.ac.za

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: In South Africa, tuberculosis (TB) caused by 
Mycobacterium tuberculosis is the most commonly notified disease and the fifth 
largest cause of mortality, with one in ten cases of TB resistant to treatment 
in some areas. Many plants are used locally in traditional medicine to treat 
TB-related symptoms.
AIM OF THE STUDY: The aim was to summarize currently available knowledge on 
South African plants used to treat TB symptoms, and antimycobacterial efficacy 
of plant-derived extracts and compounds.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The traditional uses of plants for respiratory ailments 
and TB were collated and tabulated. The antimycobacterial activity tests of 
extracts and chemical constituents of several of these plants and others using 
different methods and target organisms were summarized.
RESULTS: Almost 180 plants used for TB-related symptoms in South African 
traditional medicine were documented. About 30% of these have been tested for 
antimycobacterial efficacy, mostly against fast-growing, non-pathogenic 
Mycobacterium species.
CONCLUSIONS: Many plant species are used in traditional South African medicine 
to alleviate symptoms of TB, and several interesting leads have originated for 
further inquiry following in vitro antimycobacterial activity evaluation. 
However, much work remains to be done on the systematic assessment of anti-TB 
efficacy of local plants against pathogenic Mycobacterium species, both in vitro 
and in vivo.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2008.08.022
PMID: 18805475 [Indexed for MEDLINE]