[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: graphene biomedical applications toxicity review | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: graphene biomedical applications toxicity review]

19. Part Fibre Toxicol. 2016 Oct 31;13(1):57. doi: 10.1186/s12989-016-0168-y.

Toxicity of graphene-family nanoparticles: a general review of the origins and 
mechanisms.

Ou L(1), Song B(2), Liang H(2), Liu J(2), Feng X(2), Deng B(3), Sun T(1), Shao 
L(4).

Author information:
(1)The First Affiliated Hospital of Jinan University, Guangzhou, China.
(2)Nanfang Hospital, Southern Medical University, Guangzhou, 510515, China.
(3)The General Hospital of People's Liberation Army, Beijing, China.
(4)Nanfang Hospital, Southern Medical University, Guangzhou, 510515, China. 
shaolongquan@smu.edu.cn.

Due to their unique physicochemical properties, graphene-family nanomaterials 
(GFNs) are widely used in many fields, especially in biomedical applications. 
Currently, many studies have investigated the biocompatibility and toxicity of 
GFNs in vivo and in intro. Generally, GFNs may exert different degrees of 
toxicity in animals or cell models by following with different administration 
routes and penetrating through physiological barriers, subsequently being 
distributed in tissues or located in cells, eventually being excreted out of the 
bodies. This review collects studies on the toxic effects of GFNs in several 
organs and cell models. We also point out that various factors determine the 
toxicity of GFNs including the lateral size, surface structure, 
functionalization, charge, impurities, aggregations, and corona effect ect. In 
addition, several typical mechanisms underlying GFN toxicity have been revealed, 
for instance, physical destruction, oxidative stress, DNA damage, inflammatory 
response, apoptosis, autophagy, and necrosis. In these mechanisms, (toll-like 
receptors-) TLR-, transforming growth factor β- (TGF-β-) and tumor necrosis 
factor-alpha (TNF-α) dependent-pathways are involved in the signalling pathway 
network, and oxidative stress plays a crucial role in these pathways. In this 
review, we summarize the available information on regulating factors and the 
mechanisms of GFNs toxicity, and propose some challenges and suggestions for 
further investigations of GFNs, with the aim of completing the toxicology 
mechanisms, and providing suggestions to improve the biological safety of GFNs 
and facilitate their wide application.

DOI: 10.1186/s12989-016-0168-y
PMCID: PMC5088662
PMID: 27799056 [Indexed for MEDLINE]