[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Complex Circuit Systems | Topic: Microchip Technology | Type: Instruction-QA | Level: Graduate]

Question: Provide a comprehensive expert-level explanation of Microchip Technology in the context of Applied Sciences.

Answer:
Microchip  Technology Incorporated is a publicly listed American corporation that manufactures microcontroller, mixed-signal, analog, and Flash-IP integrated circuits. Its products include microcontrollers (PIC, dsPIC, AVR and SAM), Serial EEPROM devices, Serial SRAM devices, embedded security devices, radio frequency (RF) devices, thermal, power and battery management analog devices, as well as linear, interface and wireless products.

Its corporate headquarters is located in Chandler, Arizona. Its wafer fabs are located in Tempe, Arizona, Gresham, Oregon, and Colorado Springs, Colorado. The company's assembly/test facilities are in Chachoengsao, Thailand, and Calamba and Cabuyao, Philippines. Sales for the 2023 fiscal year were billion.

Microchip Technology offers support and resources to educators, researchers and students in an effort to increase awareness and knowledge of embedded applications. Support includes access to labs, curricula and course materials, one-on-one consultations, online resources (e.g., code examples, textbook recommendations), training at regional training centers, silicon donations, assistance finding low cost development tools, free versions of Microchip programming tools and product discounts.

History 
Microchip Technology was founded in 1987 when General Instrument spun off its microelectronics division as a wholly owned subsidiary.
The newly formed company was a supplier of programmable non-volatile memory, microcontrollers, digital signal processors, card chip on board, and consumer integrated circuits.
An initial public offering (IPO) later in the year was canceled because of the October 1987 stock market crash.
Microchip Technology became an independent company in 1989 when it was acquired by a group of venture capitalists led by Sequoia Capital.
In the same year, Microchip Technology announced the release of small, inexpensive 8-bit reduced instruction set computing (RISC) microcontrollers for $2.40 apiece whereas most RISC microcontrollers were 32-bit devices selling for hundreds of dollars.

In 1990, 60% of Microchip Technology's sales were from the disc drive industry and the product portfolio relied heavily on commodity EEPROM products.
The company was losing US$2.5 million per quarter, had less than 6 months of cash in reserve, had exhausted lines of credit, and was failing to control expenses.
Early in the year, the venture capital investors accepted an offer to sell Microchip Technology to Winbond Electronics Corporation of Taiwan for $15M. Winbond Electronics backed out of the deal after the Taiwanese stock market decrease in May 1990. Vice President of Operations, Steve Sanghi, was named president and chief operating officer of Microchip Technology in 1990.
After several quarters of losses, Sanghi oversaw Microchip Technology's transition from selling commodity-based products to specialized chips, such as the RISC technology.

Microchip Technology conducted an IPO in 1993, which Fortune magazine cited as the best performing IPO of the year with a stock appreciation of 500% and over $1bn in market capitalization.
At the end of 2015, Microchip Technology posted its 100th consecutive quarter of profitability. 
In-line with the general consolidation of the semiconductor industry, Microchip Technology purchased 17 semiconductor manufacturers from 2007 through 2017.

Products 
Microchip Technology offers 8-bit microcontrollers, 16-bit PIC microcontrollers, dsPIC digital signal controllers, analog and interface products, security authentication products, timing/communication/real-time clock and calendar products, real-time clock and calendar devices, memory products, wireless products, high-throughput USB and Ethernet interfaces, MOST technology, embedded controllers and super I/O devices, touch, multi-touch and 3D gesture control products, power over Ethernet systems and ICs, and field-programmable gate arrays (FPGAs).

8-bit microcontrollers
Microchip Technology's 8-bit portfolio consists of over 1,200 devices constructed under two architectures: PIC microcontrollers or AVR microcontrollers. Key features of the 8-bit microcontrollers are Core Independent Peripherals, low-power performance with picoPower and eXtreme Low Power (XLP) technology and EMI/EMC performance.

16-bit microcontrollers
The 16-bit microcontrollers, such as the PIC24, offer an upgrade over the 8-bit devices in features and peripherals (e.g., more memory, additional pins). The 16-bit microcontrollers are constructed under the PIC microcontroller architecture.

32-bit microcontrollers
Microchip Technology's 32-bit product portfolio run at up to 600 DMIPs with up to 2048 KB Flash and 512 KB RAM with 32 MB integrated DDR2 dynamic random-access memory (DRAM) or 128 MB externally addressable options. The 32-bit portfolio addresses advanced graphics and Internet of things (IoT) applications.

32-bit microprocessors
The 32-bit Arm microprocessors were designed for applications beyond the 32-bit microcontrollers with 600 MHz (942 DMIPS) operation, support for up to 512 MD of external DDR2 or DDR3 DRAM and power down to 0.3 mW sleep. Available peripherals and users interfaces include gigabit Ethernet MAC addresses, USBs, hardware video decoding, capacitive sensing, 12-bit CMOS sensors, I²S audio interfaces and 24-bit graphic LCD controllers with overlays.

Analog and interface products
Microchip Technology offers a broad portfolio of analog products that address thermal management, power management, battery management, mixed-signal, linear, interface, safety and security needs. Products includes stand-alone analog and interface devices which support a variety of bus interfaces and analog features on microcontrollers, digital signal controllers, microprocessors and FPGAs. The power products include silicon diodes, MOSFETs, insulated-gate bipolar transistors, silicon carbide MOSFETs and Schottky diodes.

Digital signal controllers
The dsPIC product family of digital signal controllers inc