[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: ethnobotany traditional medicine biological activi | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: ethnobotany traditional medicine biological activity]

59. J Ethnopharmacol. 2016 Apr 2;181:66-107. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2016.01.032. Epub
 2016 Jan 23.

Ethnobotany, phytochemistry, and pharmacology of the genus Litsea: An update.

Wang YS(1), Wen ZQ(2), Li BT(2), Zhang HB(1), Yang JH(3).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Medicinal Chemistry for Natural Resource, Ministry of 
Education, School of Chemical Science and Technology, Yunnan University, Kunming 
650091, PR China.
(2)First Affiliated Hospital of Kunming Medical University, Kunming 650031, PR 
China.
(3)Key Laboratory of Medicinal Chemistry for Natural Resource, Ministry of 
Education, School of Chemical Science and Technology, Yunnan University, Kunming 
650091, PR China. Electronic address: yangjh@ynu.edu.cn.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: The genus Litsea is one of the most diverse 
genera of evergreen trees or shrubs belong to Lauraceae, and comprises roughly 
400 species of tree that are distributed abundantly throughout tropical and 
subtropical Asia, North and South America. Litsea species have been used 
globally in traditional medicine for the treatment of various diseases including 
influenza, stomach aches, diarrhea, diabetes, vomiting, bone pain, inflammation, 
illness related to the central nervous system and other ailments. The purpose of 
this review is to provide updated, comprehensive and categorized information on 
the ethnobotany, phytochemistry and pharmacological research of Litsea species 
in order to explore their therapeutic potential and evaluate future research 
opportunities.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: All the available information on Litsea species was 
actualised by systematically searching the scientiﬁc literatures including 
Chinese, Korean, Japanese, Indian, and South American herbal classics, library 
catalogs and scientiﬁc databases (PubMed, SciFinder, Web of Science, Google 
Scholar, VIP and Wanfang). The Plant List, International Plant Name index and 
Scientific Database of China Plant Species were used to validate scientiﬁc 
names.
RESULTS: 407 secondary metabolites have been reported from Litsea species. 
Litsea Species are sources of secondary metabolites with interesting chemical 
structures (alkaloids, lactones, sesquiterpenes, flavonoids, lignans, and 
essential oils) and significant bioactivities. Crude extracts, fractions and 
phytochemical constituents isolated from Litsea show a wide spectrum of in vitro 
and in vivo pharmacological activities including anticancer, anti-inflammatory, 
antimicrobial, antioxidant, antidiabetic, anti-HIV, insecticidal, etc.
CONCLUSIONS: From data collected in this review, the genus Litsea comprises a 
wide range of therapeutically promising and valuable plants, and has attracted 
much attention owing to its multiple functions. Many traditional uses of Litsea 
species have now been validated by modern pharmacology research. Deep and 
systematic phytochemical investigation of the genus Litsea and the 
pharmacological properties, especially its mechanism of action and toxicology, 
to illustrate its ethnomedicinal use, explore the therapeutic potential and 
support further health-care product development will undoubtedly be the focus of 
further research. Therefore, detailed and extensive studies and clinical 
evaluation of Litsea species should be carried out in future for the safety 
approval of therapeutic applications.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2016.01.032
PMID: 26812679 [Indexed for MEDLINE]