[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: laser dermatology skin treatment tattoo hair | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: laser dermatology skin treatment tattoo hair]

29. Dermatol Surg. 1999 Oct;25(10):806-15.

Current issues in dermatologic office-based surgery. The American Academy of 
Dermatology Joint AAD/ASDS Liaison Committee.

[No authors listed]

Erratum in
    Dermatol Surg 2000 May;26(5):508.

Dermatologists and dermatologic surgeons have played major roles in the 
development and refinement of many office-based cutaneous surgical procedures. 
The comprehensive scientific education in the structure and function of skin 
that dermatologists receive during formal residency training programs has 
contributed directly to these advances. This long tradition of comprehensive 
training and strong basic research activities in skin biology has supported a 
scholarly approach to cutaneous surgery. As a result, many pioneering cutaneous 
surgical techniques have been created by dermatologists and dermatologic 
surgeons. One example of this creativity can be seen in the field of laser 
surgery where techniques to effectively treat tattoos, benign pigmented lesions, 
port-wine stains and other vascular conditions, premalignant and malignant skin 
lesions, wrinkles and sun-damaged skin, and excess or unwanted hair were 
developed by dermatologists. Some of the most innovative procedures, like 
tumescent liposuction, have focused primarily on improving patient safety while 
preserving the highest standards of care. Virtually every aspect of cutaneous 
surgery, including Mohs micrographic surgery for the treatment of skin cancers, 
hair replacement surgery, sclerotherapy of leg veins, the correction of scars 
and sun-damaged skin with the injection of filler materials, dermabrasion or 
chemical peels, and new anesthesia techniques, have been favorably impacted by 
the unique education and skills of many dermatologists and dermatologic 
surgeons. This article reviews the important historic role that has been played 
by dermatologists and dermatologic surgeons in developing and improving 
outpatient cutaneous surgical procedures and examines current issues and future 
directions in credentialing, privileging, and accreditation.

PMID: 10594585 [Indexed for MEDLINE]