[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: Ambleside Roman Fort | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Ambleside Roman Fort — Overview

Ambleside Roman Fort is the modern name given to the remains of a fort of the Roman province of Britannia. The ruins have been tentatively identified as Galava, mentioned in the Antonine Itinerary. Dating to the 1st or 2nd century AD, its ruins are located on the northern shore of Windermere at Waterhead, near Ambleside, in the English county of Cumbria, within the boundaries of the Lake District National Park. The fort guarded the Roman road from Brougham to Ravenglass. There is also assumed to have been a road south to the fort at Kendal. In 2016 it was reported that LIDAR technology had revealed a Roman road running north from Ambleside fort to Carlisle, and another running northwest to Papcastle. These roads had been previously described by John Horsley in his Britannia Romana of 1732. The ruins are a Grade I listed structure. The site is open to the public, and is owned and managed by the National Trust. The site is a scheduled monument with list entry numbers of 1009348 and 1244785 (formerly RSM 13567 and RBS 450573)

Location
Ambleside Roman Fort is situated approximately  south of Ambleside town centre, at the north end of Windermere, upon the eastern banks of the Brathay and Rothay rivers. The ruins occupy a field, known as Borrans Field, between the Brathay and Borrans Park. The remains of the fort are situated upon a sand and gravel platform in Borrans Fields, which gently rises from the lakeshore. The fort stands less than  above the water level of the lake. The fort is bordered to the south and west by marsh, and an outcrop of rock dominates the northern section of Borrans Field. The underlying bedrock is volcanic tuff of the Lincomb Tarns Tuff Formation, overlain with alluvium. The soil is freely draining loam. Identification
The name of the fort is assumed to be recorded in Route X of the Antonine Itinerary. Route X records nine place-names in what is now northwestern England. Rivet and Smith proposed in 1979 that the route ran from the securely identified Bremetonnaci (modern Ribchester) to Ravenglass on the Cumbrian coast, and that the Ambleside fort was Galava of the Itinerary; this was generally accepted at the time and was adopted by the Ordnance Survey. However, the proposed allocation of Roman names in straightforward progression led to conflicts between the etymology of place names in the Itinerary and the local topography. Suggestions of alternate routes to conform to local topography suggested by the placenames resulted in marked divergence from the recorded distance between Alone (assigned to Watercrook) and Galava. Ian Smith has suggested a resolution to the problem by equating Alone with Lancaster  on etymological grounds, and placed Galava on the River Bela, probably at Beetham in Cumbria. From Beetham, the route would then head inland, placing Clanoventa at Ambleside. Clanoventa is interpreted as meaning "shore market, town, or field" and Smith advocates this name as more appropriate than Galava, given the lakeside location, and Galava's meaning of "a forceful or vigorous stream". More recent publications, such as those of archaeologist David Shotter, have tentatively supported the interpretation of Ambleside Roman Fort as Clanoventa. Site history
The earliest, smaller, version of the fort was probably founded around the time of Agricola (AD 80–5), and it was occupied until at least AD 365. Early investigators suggested that it may have been abandoned after AD 85, and reoccupied in time of Hadrian (AD 117–138). However, more recent analysis of recovered ceramics from outside the fort showed no evidence of a break in occupation between 100 and 160 AD. Excavations of the towers indicate that it was destroyed once or twice in the 2nd or 3rd centuries, but the evidence is unclear. The fort appears to have had a large extramural settlement, and was apparently a significant centre for local storage and commerce. Modern history
The site of the fort was donated to the National Trust in 1913, after being purchased with funds raised by donations, a significant portion of which was collected locally. The remains of the fort were excavated in the second decade of the 20th century by historian R. G. Collingwood, who had been involved in the fundraising effort to save the remains from the threat of development. This included investigations of the gates, ramparts, towers, the principal structures in the centre of the fort, and the barracks. During these excavations, the remains of an earlier version of the fort were discovered near the central buildings; these included ditches and walls. The earlier version of the fort appeared to be smaller than the later version. Excavations of the extensive Romano-British settlement outside the fort were undertaken in the 1960s and 1970s, with further investigations undertaken in the 1980s. A geophysical survey was undertaken in 2013 by Oxford Archaeology North. This survey recorded the outline of the fort, some of the internal layout, two of the four corner towers, some of the defences and ramparts, and some detail of external defences.