[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Propulsion Mechanics | Topic: Khrunichev State Research and Production Space Center | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Khrunichev State Research and Production Space Center — Overview

which first flew in 2000. Rockot, a converted ballistic missile, is offered for launching smaller payloads. For international marketing of Rockot launches, Khrunichev has created the joint-venture Eurockot GmbH. Another version of the Briz-M upper stage, Briz-KM, is used as Rockot's third stage. In 2009, the company manufactured a total of 25 launch vehicles, upper stage boosters and spacecraft, while in 2005 the figure was 11. In 2010, Khrunichev aims to raise the figure to 30. A record 15 rockets were launched by the company in 2009. In 2008, the company was responsible for lofting every third kilogram of the world's combined satellite payload. Revenue
Khrunichev's revenue from commercial launches (not including launches for the Ministry of Defense) in 2009 was $584 million—growing considerably from the $198 million figure in 2004. Since 1994, Proton has earned $4.3 billion for the Russian space industry as a whole, and in 2011 this figure is expected to raise to $6 billion. In 2006–2009, investments in modernization and retooling amounted to RUB 2.6 billion. Angara rocket family
Since 1995, Khrunichev has been developing the Angara rocket family. The main purpose of Angara is to ensure Russia's independent access to space, as the rockets can be launched from the Plesetsk Cosmodrome in northern Russia as well as the upcoming Vostochny Cosmodrome, instead of having to rely on Baikonur Cosmodrome, which is located on the territory of Kazakhstan. Angara also does not use the toxic fuel that is used by Proton. The Angara programme has been hit by several delays. State funding started to reach appropriate levels only in 2005. In 2009, it was estimated that Angara had 95–97% completion rate over all major program indicators. The main stumbling block is the construction of the new launch pad in Plesetsk. Due to unrealistic deflator indices set by the Ministry of Defense, Khrunichev has not received enough money to order all necessary equipment for finishing the pad, pushing Angara's expected first flight to 2013. When completed, the Angara rockets are intended to replace several existing launchers, including Proton. List of rockets and missiles
 Angara
 Briz-M
 Universal Rocket
 UR-100
 UR-100N
 Rokot
 Strela
 UR-200
 UR-500 – Proton rocket family
 Proton-K
 Proton-M

See also
 TKS-based spacecraft
 United Rocket and Space Corporation
 National Space Centre (Moscow)

References

External links
 Khrunichev web-site 
 Khrunichev State Space Scientific Production Center at the Nuclear Threat Initiative
 http://www2.warwick.ac.uk/fac/soc/economics/staff/faculty/harrison/vpk/data/
 Article on USAF Aggressors by Khrunichev Director Vasiliy Sechev

Soviet and Russian space institutions
Aerospace companies of the Soviet Union
Federal State Unitary Enterprises of Russia
Aircraft manufacturers of the Soviet Union
Rocket engine manufacturers of Russia
Roscosmos divisions and subsidiaries
 
Companies based in Moscow