[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: optical coherence tomography retinal diagnosis | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: optical coherence tomography retinal diagnosis]

73. Br J Ophthalmol. 2018 Apr;102(4):433-437. doi:
10.1136/bjophthalmol-2017-310210.  Epub 2017 Aug 1.

Comparing optical coherence tomography findings in different aetiologies of 
infectious necrotising retinitis.

Invernizzi A(1)(2), Agarwal AK(3), Ravera V(1), Mapelli C(4), Riva A(5), 
Staurenghi G(1), McCluskey PJ(2), Viola F(6).

Author information:
(1)Eye Clinic, Department of Biomedical and Clinical Science "L. Sacco", Luigi 
Sacco Hospital, University of Milan, Milan, Italy.
(2)Save Sight Institute, Sydney Eye Hospital, University of Sydney, Sydney, 
Australia.
(3)Advanced Eye Center - Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and 
Research, Chandigarh, India.
(4)Fatebenefratelli and Ophthalmic Hospital, Azienda SocioSanitaria Territoriale 
(ASST) Fatebenefratelli-Sacco, Milano, Italy.
(5)Department of Clinical Sciences, Luigi Sacco Hospital, Section of Infectious 
and Tropical Diseases, University of Milan, Milan, Italy.
(6)Department of Clinical Sciences and Community Health, University of Milan, 
Ophthalmological Unit, IRCCS-Cà Granda Foundation - Ospedale Maggiore 
Policlinico, Milan, Italy.

AIMS: To compare optical coherence tomography (OCT) features of active 
necrotising infectious retinitis (NIR) due to toxoplasmosis or herpesviruses and 
to determine distinctive OCT signs for these two causes of infectious retinitis.
METHODS: OCT scans from eyes with active NIR due to varicella zoster virus 
(VZV), herpes simplex virus (HSV), cytomegalovirus (CMV), and toxoplasmosis 
(TOXO) were reviewed. All images were evaluated for the presence of previously 
described OCT findings in TOXO-NIR and compared with the viral group. New OCT 
findings were recorded and compared. Retinal and choroidal thickness were 
measured at the site of NIR and compared.
RESULTS: 10 eyes diagnosed with TOXO-NIR and 13 eyes affected by viral-NIR (9 
CMV and 4 VZV) were analysed. All eyes showed full thickness hyper-reflectivity, 
disruption of the retina and a variable degree of vitritis. Among previously 
described OCT signs, hyper-reflective oval deposits and hypo-reflectivity of the 
choroid had a higher prevalence in TOXO (p=0.018 and p<0.0001, respectively). 
Among the new signs, hyper-reflective round deposits along the posterior 
hyaloid, retrohyaloid hyper-reflective spots and a disruption of the choroidal 
architecture were more frequent in TOXO eyes (all p<0.01). Intra-retinal oedema 
and hyper-reflective vertical strips within the outer nuclear layer were 
suggestive of a viral aetiology (p=0.045). Retinal thickness at the site of NIR 
did not differ between the two groups. Choroidal thickness was significantly 
higher in TOXO eyes (p=0.01).
CONCLUSIONS: The diagnosis of NIR is largely based on clinical and laboratory 
findings. OCT changes may be useful in differentiating different causes of NIR.

© Article author(s) (or their employer(s) unless otherwise stated in the text of 
the article) 2018. All rights reserved. No commercial use is permitted unless 
otherwise expressly granted.

DOI: 10.1136/bjophthalmol-2017-310210
PMID: 28765144 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: GS has financial relations 
with OCT manufacturers including: Heidelberg Engineering, Zeiss, Nidek, Canon, 
Optovue.