[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: nanoparticle drug delivery tumor targeting cancer | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: nanoparticle drug delivery tumor targeting cancer]

50. Pharmacol Res. 2022 Dec;186:106532. doi: 10.1016/j.phrs.2022.106532. Epub
2022  Nov 2.

Targeting nanoparticle-conjugated microbubbles combined with ultrasound-mediated 
microbubble destruction for enhanced tumor therapy.

Chen KW(1), Hsu PH(2), Huang HL(3), Liu HL(4), Lin YT(5), Hsu CY(3), Lin JH(6), 
Lin YH(7).

Author information:
(1)Division of Hematology and Oncology, Cheng Hsin General Hospital, Taipei, 
Taiwan.
(2)Department of Medical Research and Development, Chang Gung Memorial Hospital, 
Linkou, Taiwan.
(3)Department of Pharmacy, National Yang Ming Chiao Tung University, Taipei, 
Taiwan.
(4)Department of Electrical Engineering, Department of Biomedical Engineering, 
National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan.
(5)Graduate Institute of Metabolism and Obesity Sciences, College of Nutrition, 
National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan.
(6)HCT Regenerative Co., Ltd., New Taipei City, Taiwan.
(7)Department of Pharmacy, National Yang Ming Chiao Tung University, Taipei, 
Taiwan; Medical Device Innovation and Translation Center, National Yang Ming 
Chiao Tung University, Taipei, Taiwan; Department of Medical Research, China 
Medical University Hospital, China Medical University, Taichung, Taiwan. 
Electronic address: ylhsin@nycu.edu.tw.

The stress of the abnormal stromal matrix of solid tumors is a major limiting 
factor that prevents drug penetration. Controlled, accurate, and efficient 
delivery of theranostic agents into tumor cells is crucial. Combining ultrasound 
with nanocarrierbased drug delivery systems have become a promising approach for 
targeted drug delivery in preclinical cancer therapy. In this study, to ensure 
effective tumor barrier penetration, access to the tumor microenvironment, and 
local drug release, we designed targeted nanoparticle (NP)-conjugated 
microbubbles (MBs); ultrasound could then help deliver acoustic energy to 
release the NPs from the MBs. The ultrasound-targeted MB destruction (UTMD) 
system of negatively charged NPs was conjugated with positively charged MBs 
using an ionic gelation method. We demonstrated the transfer of targeted NPs and 
their entry into gastric cancer cells through ligand-specific recognition, 
followed by enhanced cell growth inhibition owing to drug delivery-induced 
apoptosis. Moreover, the UTMD system combining therapeutic and ultrasound image 
properties can effectively target gastric cancer, thus significantly enhancing 
antitumor activity, as evident by tumor localization in an orthotopic mouse 
model of gastric cancer. The combination of ultrasound and NP-based drug 
delivery systems has become a promising approach for targeted drug delivery in 
preclinical cancer therapy.

Copyright © 2022 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.phrs.2022.106532
PMID: 36334876 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.