[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: Landau quantization | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Landau quantization — Overview

In quantum mechanics, Landau quantization refers to the quantization of the cyclotron orbits of charged particles in a uniform magnetic field. As a result, the charged particles can only occupy orbits with discrete, equidistant energy values, called Landau levels. These levels are degenerate, with the number of electrons per level directly proportional to the strength of the applied magnetic field. It is named after the Soviet physicist Lev Landau. Landau quantization is directly responsible for the electronic susceptibility of metals, known as Landau diamagnetism. Under strong magnetic fields, Landau quantization leads to oscillations in electronic properties of materials as a function of the applied magnetic field known as the De Haas–Van Alphen and Shubnikov–de Haas effects. Landau quantization is a key ingredient to explain the integer quantum Hall effect. Derivation 

Consider a system of non-interacting particles with charge  and spin  confined to an area  in the  plane. Apply a uniform magnetic field  along the -axis. In SI units, the Hamiltonian of this system (here, the effects of spin are neglected) is

Here,  is the canonical momentum operator and  is the operator for the electromagnetic vector potential  (in position space ). The vector potential is related to the magnetic field by 

There is some gauge freedom in the choice of vector potential for a given magnetic field. The Hamiltonian is gauge invariant, which means that adding the gradient of a scalar field to  changes the overall phase of the wave function by an amount corresponding to the scalar field. But physical properties are not influenced by the specific choice of gauge. In the Landau gauge 
From the possible solutions for A, a gauge fixing introduced by Lev Landau is often used for charged particles in a constant magnetic field. When  then   is a possible solution in the Landau gauge. In this gauge, the Hamiltonian is

The operator  commutes with this Hamiltonian, since the operator  is absent by the choice of gauge. Thus the operator  can be replaced by its eigenvalue . Since  does not appear in the Hamiltonian and only the z-momentum appears in the kinetic energy, this motion along the z-direction is a free motion. The Hamiltonian can also be written more simply by noting that the cyclotron frequency is , giving

This is exactly the Hamiltonian for the quantum harmonic oscillator, except with the minimum of the potential shifted in coordinate space by  . To find the energies, note that translating the harmonic oscillator potential does not affect the energies. The energies of this system are thus identical to those of the standard quantum harmonic oscillator,

The energy does not depend on the quantum number , so there will be a finite number of degeneracies (If the particle is placed in an unconfined space, this degeneracy will correspond to a continuous sequence of ). The value of  is continuous if the particle is unconfined in the z-direction and discrete if the particle is bounded in the z-direction also. Each set of wave functions with the same value of  is called a Landau level. For the wave functions, recall that  commutes with the Hamiltonian. Then the wave function factors into a product of momentum eigenstates in the  direction and harmonic oscillator eigenstates  shifted by an amount 0 in the  direction:

where . In sum, the state of the electron is characterized by the quantum numbers, ,  and . In the symmetric gauge
The derivation treated  and y as asymmetric. However, by the symmetry of the system, there is no physical quantity which distinguishes these coordinates. The same result could have been obtained with an appropriate interchange of  and . A more adequate choice of gauge, is the symmetric gauge, which refers to the choice

In terms of dimensionless lengths and energies, the Hamiltonian can be expressed as

The correct units can be restored by introducing factors of  and . Consider operators

These operators follow certain commutation relations

In terms of above operators the Hamiltonian can be written as

where we reintroduced the units back. The Landau level index  is the eigenvalue of the operator . The application of  increases  by one unit while preserving , whereas  application simultaneously increase  and decreases  by one unit. The analogy to quantum harmonic oscillator provides solutions

where

and

One may verify that the above states correspond to choosing wavefunctions proportional to

where . In particular, the lowest Landau level  consists of arbitrary analytic functions multiplying a Gaussian, . Degeneracy of the Landau levels

In the Landau gauge 
The effects of Landau levels may only be observed when the mean thermal energy  is smaller than the energy level separation, , meaning low temperatures and strong magnetic fields. Each Landau level is degenerate because of the second quantum number , which can take the values 

where  is an integer. The allowed values of  are further restricted by the condition that the center of force of the oscillator, , must physically lie within the system, .