[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: The Moon Upstairs | Type: Instruction-QA | Level: Graduate]

Question: Provide a comprehensive expert-level explanation of The Moon Upstairs in the context of Applied Sciences.

Answer:
The Moon Upstairs was an American psychedelic rock group based in Echo Park, CA.  Principal songwriter, guitarist, and pianist, Sharif Dumani formed the group after he and bassist Aaron Ebensperger toured and collaborated with Cody ChesnuTT. Along with Mark Sogomian (guitar) and Josh Mancell (drums) (later adding New York City transplant, Dave Baine), the then four-piece recorded eleven songs, strings arranged by Lavender Diamond's Steve Gregoropoulis. The Moon Upstairs sat on these recordings while members did outside recording work and Dumani toured with The Tyde (Rough Trade Records), filling in for Ben Knight on their 2006 tour with The Black Angels.

In 2007, independent label Gifted Children Records signed The Moon Upstairs and released their debut album, Guarding The Golden Apple in June 2007 in the United States. To promote their release, they toured alongside electronic pioneer, Silver Apples.

Each member of The Moon Upstairs was a multi-instrumentalist.

Members have collaborated and/or toured with: Nick Castro and the Young Elders, The Morlocks, The Tyde, Jonathan Wilson, and Good Time Women.

Their band name is taken from a song by Mott the Hoople.

The band separated January 7, 2010.

Members 
 Sharif Dumani - vocals, electric/acoustic guitar, piano, electric piano, organ, lap steel, celeste, melodica
 Aaron Ebensperger - bass guitar, bowed bass, gutted piano
 Mark Sogomian - electric guitar, noise
 Josh Mancell - drums, timpani, gutted piano, vibraphone, percussion
 Dave Baine - guitar, piano, organ

Discography 

 Guarding The Golden Apple (2007, Gifted Children Records)

References 

 Official Website
 Official MySpace Page
 Gifted Children Records
 Dream Magazine
 Ptolemaic Terrascope

American folk musical groups
Indie rock musical groups from California