[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: Presbyterian Ladies' College, Perth | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Presbyterian Ladies' College, Perth — Overview

OBE who was on teaching staff from 1920 and Principal from 1934 to 1961. Emblem: White Heather Baird Colour: orange. Named for the Baird family from which two past Chairs of Council, one teacher and many students came. Emblem: White Cotton Grass Ross Colour: black. Named for Prof Alexander David Ross, who was one of PLC's Founders and served on the School Council for 41 years. Emblem: Chrysanthemum

Co-curriculum
Music

PLC offers music ensembles to both junior and senior students, including a Stage Band, three concert bands, three string orchestras, several string quartets, a combined Chorale with Trinity College, a combined string chamber orchestra with Scotch College as well as a combined symphonic wind ensemble and vocal ensemble with PLC's brother school, Scotch College. The school also features an all female pipe band, one of only a small number throughout Australia. The Pipe Band is a long-standing tradition of the School and reflects PLC's Scottish heritage. Visual art

At PLC there is an annual visual art exhibition exhibiting works of current students done during the school year ranging from sculpture to textiles and painting. Works from PLC have been selected over the years and in 2012 to be shown in the annual 'Year 12 Visual Art Perspectives' at the Art Gallery of Western Australia. Performing arts

PLC also offers performing arts subjects, such as drama and dance. Dance and Drama performances are shown annually at the school, as well as year based curriculum performances. The school's Hazel Day Drama Centre is a professional standard theatre venue. Sport

The Presbyterian Ladies' College physical education programme provides students of all abilities with opportunities to partake in recreational activities such as yoga and aerobics, and team sports such as netball, basketball, cricket, tennis, hockey, volleyball, soccer, softball, rowing, and water polo. Inter-school competition is enabled through PLC's membership of the Junior School Heads Association of Australia (JSHAA) for primary students, and the Independent Girls Schools Sports Association (IGSSA) for middle and senior students. Notable alumnae 
Alumnae of the Presbyterian Ladies' College are known as Old Collegians, and may elect to join the schools alumni association, the PLC Old Collegians' Association (PLC OCA). Some notable Old Collegians include:

Academic
Gillian Moore – Principal of Pymble Ladies' College (1989–2007); Deputy Principal of Methodist Ladies' College, Perth (1983–88)

Entertainment, media and the arts
Claire van der Boom – Actress, best known for her appearance as Stella in the third episode of the HBO mini-series The Pacific and as Rachel Edwards in six episodes of the CBS Productions series Hawaii Five-0
Estelle Blackburn AM – Journalist and author
Katharine Brisbane AM – Theatre critic; publisher; Co-founder of Currency Press Pty Ltd
Jill Alison Crommelin – Journalist for The West Australian, The Australian Women's Weekly, The Straits Times (Singapore) and the Sunday Independent (also attended St Mary's Anglican Girls' School)
Diane Dunbar – Curator of Fine Art at the Queen Victoria Museum and Art Gallery, Launceston
Dame Alexandra Hasluck nee Darker – author and social historian
Melissa Hasluck – Film producer
Jacinta John – Actor, director, producer. Best known for her performance as Miss Casewell in the (2012/13) 60th Diamond Anniversary tour of Agatha Christie's The Mousetrap
 Mary-Ellen Murdoch King – Director of Orchestra Victoria; Director of the Melbourne International Comedy Festival
 Sara Macliver – classical soprano
Judy Nunn AM – Author and actress, best known for her role as Ailsa Stewart in Home and Away
 Paula Voce – Seven News Perth presenter
Sue-Anne Wallace AM – CEO, Fundraising Institute Australia Ltd; Director of Techplas Pty Ltd, founding director Queensland University of Technology Cultural Precinct, former director of Education and Curatorial Programs Museum of Contemporary Art, Sydney
 Amelia Brown – International model
 Tahnee Atkinson – Australia's Next Top Model season 5 winner, graduated 2010
 Courtney Chircop – Finalist in Make Me a Supermodel, graduated 2008 
 Olivia DeJonge – actress, best known for playing Elle in Netflix's popular TV show 'The Society', graduated 2015

Law
Michelle Gordon AC – Justice of the High Court of Australia (also attended St Mary's Anglican Girls' School)
Marie Byles – First female solicitor in New South Wales and conservation lawyer, graduated 1916

Medicine and science
Megan Clark AC – Chief Executive of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation (CSIRO), inaugural head of Australian Space Agency, Rio Tinto board director
Margaret Mary Henderson OBE – Consultant Physician and Consultant Emeritus, Royal Melbourne Hospital (also attended Melbourne Girls Grammar)
Joan Tully – Agricultural scientist (CSIRO, University of Melbourne, University of Queensland). Sport
Hannah Vermeersch – Olympic rower (Australian women's eight, London 2012)
Nina Kennedy – Bronze Medalist Pole-vaulter in Commonwealth Games 2018
Jacqueline Swick – Australian representative rower 2022 World Rowing Championships.