[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: phytotherapy systematic review clinical evidence | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: phytotherapy systematic review clinical evidence]

69. Int J Dent Hyg. 2014 Feb;12(1):2-16. doi: 10.1111/idh.12026. Epub 2013 Jun
24.

The effect of medicated, sugar-free chewing gum on plaque and clinical 
parameters of gingival inflammation: a systematic review.

Keukenmeester RS(1), Slot DE, Putt MS, Van der Weijden GA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Periodontology, Academic Centre for Dentistry Amsterdam (ACTA), 
University of Amsterdam and VU University Amsterdam, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to systematically review the present literature to 
establish the clinical effect of medicated, sugar-free chewing gum on plaque 
indices and parameters of gingival inflammation.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: MEDLINE-PubMed, Cochrane CENTRAL and EMBASE databases 
were searched up to April 2012 to identify appropriate studies. Included studies 
used an intervention of medicated, sugar-free chewing gum containing 
antimicrobial agents or herbal extracts compared with a control gum. Plaque and 
gingivitis scores were selected as outcome variables.
RESULTS: Independent screening of 594 unique titles and abstracts identified 10 
non-brushing and four brushing studies that met the eligibility criteria. Means 
and standard deviations were extracted. A sufficient number of studies evaluated 
chlorhexidine gum to perform a meta-analysis. Although this review provides 
evidence for the comparative effectiveness of chewing gums containing various 
ingredients, the results must be weighed carefully against the methods that were 
used to assess their outcomes.
CONCLUSION: Most of the chewing gums with antimicrobial agents or herbal 
extracts were shown to have a positive effect with respect to plaque and 
gingivitis scores. The most compelling evidence was provided for chewing gum 
containing chlorhexidine. Meta-analysis and individual results indicate a 
beneficial effect of chlorhexidine on plaque inhibition. However, GRADE evidence 
profile shows that the recommendation to use CHX-gum to reduce plaque scores in 
the absence of brushing is considered to be 'weak'. Other ingredients with 
positive outcomes on plaque scores are eucalyptus, acacia, funoran, Pycnogenol 
and mastic. Limited data with respect to gingivitis scores were available, and 
the following agents showed a positive effect: magnolia, eucalyptus and CHX.

© 2013 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/idh.12026
PMID: 23790138 [Indexed for MEDLINE]