[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: natural product antibiotic drug discovery | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: natural product antibiotic drug discovery]

14. Nat Prod Rep. 2017 Jul 1;34(7):694-701. doi: 10.1039/c7np00019g. Epub 2017
Jun  1.

Opportunities for natural products in 21(st) century antibiotic discovery.

Wright GD(1).

Author information:
(1)M.G. DeGroote Institute for Infectious Disease Research, Department of 
Biochemistry and Biomedical Sciences, DeGroote School of Medicine, McMaster 
University, 1280 Main Street West, Hamilton, ON L8N 4K1, Canada. 
wrightge@mcmaster.ca.

Natural products and their derivatives are mainstays of our antibiotic drugs, 
but they are increasingly in peril. The combination of widespread multidrug 
resistance in once susceptible bacterial pathogens, disenchantment with natural 
products as sources of new drugs, lack of success using synthetic compounds and 
target-based discovery methods, along with shifting economic and regulatory 
issues, conspire to move investment in research and development away from the 
antibiotics arena. The result is a growing crisis in antibiotic drug discovery 
that threatens modern medicine. 21st century natural product research is 
perfectly positioned to fill the antibiotic discovery gap and bring new drug 
candidates to the clinic. Innovations in genomics and techniques to explore new 
sources of antimicrobial chemical matter are revealing new chemistry. Increasing 
appreciation of the value of narrow-spectrum drugs and re-examination of once 
discarded chemical scaffolds coupled with synthetic biology methods to generate 
new compounds and improve yields offer new strategies to revitalize once 
moribund natural product programs. The increasing awareness that the combination 
of antibiotics with adjuvants, non-antibiotic compounds that overcome resistance 
and enhance drug activity, can rescue older chemical scaffolds, and concepts 
such as blocking pathogen virulence present orthogonal strategies to traditional 
antibiotics. In all these areas, natural products offer chemical matter, shaped 
by natural selection, that is privileged in this therapeutic area. Natural 
product research is poised to regain prominence in delivering new drugs to solve 
the antibiotic crisis.

DOI: 10.1039/c7np00019g
PMID: 28569300 [Indexed for MEDLINE]