[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: Spray forming | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Spray forming — Overview

alloys showed that as a consequence of the interconnected liquid in the billet there was significant macrosegregation in large spray formed wrought Al billets. The distribution of Cu, Mg and Li in, for example, Al alloy 8091 showed surprisingly pronounced macrosegregation with the variation of Cu(wt%) in a spray formed 8091 billet, ranging from approximately 1.4 at the billet centre to 1.92 at the billet periphery. These macrosegregation patterns were explained in terms of inverse segregation in which solute rich liquid from the billet centre is sucked back through the primary Al-rich network to feed solidification shrinkage at the billet periphery. This effect was suggested to be exacerbated by centrifugal effects from the billet rotation. As sprayed the billet porosity is typically 1–2% with a region of higher porosity in the splat-quenched region adjacent to the substrate. The very top of the billet often shows increased porosity because the top is rapidly chilled by the atomising gas which continues to chill the billet for 10–60 seconds after spraying. There has also been little progress in understanding and quantifying the underlying physics that controls as-sprayed porosity. In most cases, the higher porosity at the billet base and top are scalped and recycled. Ultrasonic inspection is sometimes used to determine the depth of the chill zone regions to prevent unnecessary wastage. Depending on the alloy system and the final application, the remaining bulk material is usually processed to close porosity and subjected to a range of thermo-mechanical treatments. Spray formed materials are rarely used in the as-sprayed condition and are often treated by HIPing to remove porosity. In some cases, the residual atomising gas in pores may react with alloying elements to form allegedly beneficial phases e.g. N2 reacting with titanium in nickel superalloy Rene 80 to form a dispersion of TiN. References
The above text is substantially taken from 'Spray forming of Si-Al alloys for thermal management applications' By Dr Al Lambourne, D.Phil Thesis, 2007, Queens College. This document is publicly held in the Oxford University Library and is available as an online resource via Oxford Research Archives (ORA). To link to this thesis follow :. Notes

Bibliography
. External links
Images of spray forming equipment
Process description
Spray forming overview

Casting (manufacturing)
Metalworking