[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: Dynamo | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Dynamo — Overview

maintenance costs and power limitations than alternating current (AC) machines due to their use of the commutator. These disadvantages are: The sliding friction between the brushes and commutator consumes power, which can be significant in a low power dynamo. Due to friction, the brushes and copper commutator segments wear down, creating dust. Large commutated machines require regular replacement of brushes and occasional resurfacing of the commutator. Commutated machines cannot be used in low particulate or sealed applications or in equipment that must operate for long periods without maintenance. The resistance of the sliding contact between brush and commutator causes a voltage drop called the "brush drop". This may be several volts, so it can cause large power losses in low voltage, high current machines (see the huge commutator of the 7 volt electroplating dynamo in the adjacent picture). Alternating current motors, which do not use commutators, are much more efficient. There is a limit to the maximum current density and voltage which can be switched with a commutator. Very large direct current machines, say, with megawatt power ratings, cannot be built with commutators. The largest motors and generators are all alternating-current machines. The switching action of the commutator causes sparking at the contacts, posing a fire hazard in explosive atmospheres, and generating electromagnetic interference. Although direct current dynamos were the first source of electric power for industry, they had to be located close to the factories that used their power. Electricity could only be distributed over distances economically as alternating current (AC), through the use of the transformer. With the 1890s conversion of electric power systems to alternating current, during the 20th century dynamos were replaced by alternators, and are now almost obsolete. Etymology 

The word 'dynamo' (from the Greek word dynamis (δύναμις), meaning force or power) was originally another name for an electrical generator, and still has some regional usage as a replacement for the word generator. The word was coined in 1831 by Michael Faraday, who utilized his invention toward making many discoveries in electricity (Faraday discovered electrical induction) and magnetism."Experimental Researches in Electricity", Vol. 1, Series I (Nov. 1831); footnote for Art. 79, p. 23, 'Ampère's Inductive Results', Michael Faraday, D.C.L, F.R.S.; Reprinted From The Philosophical Transactions Of 1846-1852, with other Electrical Papers from the Proceedings of the Royal Institution and Philosophical Magazine, Richard Taylor and William Francis, Printers and Publishers to the University of London, Red Lion Court, Fleet Str., London, England (1855). The original "dynamo principle" of  Werner von Siemens referred only to the direct current generators which use exclusively the self-excitation (self-induction) principle to generate DC power. The earlier DC generators which used permanent magnets were not considered "dynamo electric machines". The invention of the dynamo principle (self-induction) was a major technological leap over the old traditional permanent magnet based DC generators. The discovery of the dynamo principle made industrial scale electric power generation technically and economically feasible. After the invention of the alternator and that alternating current can be used as a power supply, the word dynamo became associated exclusively with the 'commutated direct current electric generator', while an AC electrical generator using either slip rings or rotor magnets would become known as an alternator. A small electrical generator built into the hub of a bicycle wheel to power lights is called a hub dynamo, although these are invariably AC devices, and are actually magnetos. Design 

The  electric dynamo uses rotating coils of wire and magnetic fields to convert mechanical rotation into a pulsing direct electric current through Faraday's law of induction. A dynamo machine consists of a stationary structure, called the stator, which provides a constant magnetic field, and a set of rotating windings called the armature which turn within that field. Due to Faraday's law of induction, the motion of the wire within the magnetic field creates an electromotive force, which pushes on the electrons in the metal, creating an electric current in the wire. On small machines, the constant magnetic field may be provided by one or more permanent magnets; larger machines have the constant magnetic field provided by one or more electromagnets, which are usually called field coils. Commutation 

The commutator is needed to produce direct current. When a loop of wire rotates in a magnetic field, the magnetic flux through it—and thus the potential induced in it—reverses with each half turn, generating an alternating current. However, in the early days of electric experimentation, alternating current generally had no known use. The few uses for electricity, such as electroplating, used direct current provided by messy liquid batteries.