[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: herbal medicine drug interaction pharmacokinetics | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: herbal medicine drug interaction pharmacokinetics]

71. J Ethnopharmacol. 2017 Jan 4;195:214-221. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2016.11.022.
Epub  2016 Nov 12.

Herb-drug interaction of Andrographis paniculata (Nees) extract and 
andrographolide on pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic of naproxen in rats.

Balap A(1), Lohidasan S(1), Sinnathambi A(2), Mahadik K(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, Poona College of Pharmacy, Bharati 
Vidyapeeth Deemed University (BVDU), Pune 411038, India.
(2)Department of Pharmacology, Poona College of Pharmacy, Bharati Vidyapeeth 
Deemed University (BVDU), Pune 411038, India.
(3)Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, Poona College of Pharmacy, Bharati 
Vidyapeeth Deemed University (BVDU), Pune 411038, India. Electronic address: 
krmahadik@redifffmail.com.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Andrographis paniculata Nees (Acanthacae) have 
broad range of pharmacological effects such as hepatoprotective, antifertility, 
antimalarial, antidiabetic, suppression of various cancer cells and 
anti-inflammatory properties and is widely used medicinal plant in the 
traditional Unani and Ayurvedic medicinal systems. Andrographolide (AN) is one 
of the active constituent of the A. paniculata Nees extract (APE). They have 
been found in many traditional herbal formulations in India and proven to be 
effective as anti-inflammatory drug.
AIM OF THE STUDY: To evaluate the pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic (anti 
arthritic) herb-drug interactions of A. paniculata Nees extract (APE) and pure 
andrographolide (AN) with naproxen (NP) after oral co-administration in wistar 
rats.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: After oral co-administration of APE (200mg/Kg) and AN 
(60mg/kg) with NP (7.5mg/kg) in rats, drug concentrations in plasma were 
determined using HPLC method. The main pharmacokinetic parameters of Cmax, tmax, 
t1/2, MRT, Vd, CL, and AUC were calculated by non-compartment model. Change in 
paw volume, mechanical nociceptive threshold, mechanical hyperalgesia, 
histopathology and hematological parameters were evaluated to study 
antiarthritic activity.
RESULTS: Co-administration of NP with APE and pure AN decreased systemic 
exposure level of NP in vivo. The Cmax, tmax, AUC0-t of NP was decreased. In 
pharmacodynamic study, NP (10mg/kg) alone and NP+AN (10+60mg/kg) groups 
exhibited significant synergistic anti-arthritic activity as compared to groups 
NP+APE, APE and AN alone.
CONCLUSION: The results obtained from this study suggested that NP, APE and pure 
AN existed pharmacokinetic herb-drug interactions in rat which is correlated 
with anti-arthritic study. The knowledge regarding possible herb-drug 
interaction of NP might be helpful for physicians as well as patients using AP. 
So further studies should be done to understand the effect of other herbal 
ingredients of APE on NP as well as to predict the herb-drug interaction in 
humans.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2016.11.022
PMID: 27847337 [Indexed for MEDLINE]