[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: natural product antibiotic drug discovery | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: natural product antibiotic drug discovery]

93. FEMS Microbiol Rev. 2017 May 1;41(3):392-416. doi: 10.1093/femsre/fux005.

Chemical ecology of antibiotic production by actinomycetes.

van der Meij A(1), Worsley SF(2), Hutchings MI(2), van Wezel GP(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Molecular Biotechnology, Institute of Biology, Leiden University, Sylviusweg 
72, 2333 BE Leiden, The Netherlands.
(2)School of Biological Sciences, University of East Anglia, Norwich, Norwich 
Research Park, NR4 7TJ United Kingdom.
(3)Microbial Ecology, Netherlands Institute of Ecology (NIOO-KNAW), 
droevendaalsesteeg 10, 6708 PB Wageningen, The Netherlands.

Actinomycetes are a diverse family of filamentous bacteria that produce a 
plethora of natural products relevant for agriculture, biotechnology and 
medicine, including the majority of the antibiotics we use in the clinic. Rather 
than as free-living bacteria, many actinomycetes have evolved to live in 
symbiosis with among others plants, fungi, insects and sponges. As a common 
theme, these organisms profit from the natural products and enzymes produced by 
the actinomycetes, for example, for protection against pathogenic microbes, for 
growth promotion or for the degradation of complex natural polymers such as 
lignocellulose. At the same time, the actinomycetes benefit from the resources 
of the hosts they interact with. Evidence is accumulating that these 
interactions control the expression of biosynthetic gene clusters and have 
played a major role in the evolution of the high chemical diversity of 
actinomycete-produced secondary metabolites. Many of the biosynthetic gene 
clusters for antibiotics are poorly expressed under laboratory conditions, but 
they are likely expressed in response to host-specific demands. Here, we review 
the environmental triggers and cues that control natural product formation by 
actinomycetes and provide pointers as to how these insights may be harnessed for 
drug discovery.

© FEMS 2017. All rights reserved. For permissions, please e-mail: 
journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/femsre/fux005
PMID: 28521336 [Indexed for MEDLINE]