[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: MRI physics image quality artifact reduction | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: MRI physics image quality artifact reduction]

77. Magn Reson Imaging. 2007 Apr;25(3):359-64. doi: 10.1016/j.mri.2006.09.013.
Epub  2006 Nov 16.

Nonlinear averaging reconstruction method for phase-cycle SSFP.

Elliott AM(1), Bernstein MA, Ward HA, Lane J, Witte RJ.

Author information:
(1)Imaging Physics, M.D. Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, TX 77030-4009, USA. 
andrew.elliott@di.mdacc.tmc.edu

The ability to obtain high-quality images of small structures, such as the 
nerves of the inner ear, is important for the early diagnosis of numerous 
conditions. Balanced steady-state free precession (SSFP; e.g., true fast imaging 
with steady-state precession) is a fast acquisition method, but its use has been 
limited by the presence of off-resonance banding artifacts. To reduce these 
artifacts multiacquisition balanced SSFP with phase cycling is used, yielding 
multiple data sets in which the banding artifacts are spatially shifted with 
respect to each other (e.g., as in CISS). We present a new method, called 
nonlinear averaging (NLA), for combining these data sets to reduce banding 
artifacts. The NLA method arithmetically averages the three highest magnitude 
signals from four-phase-cycle SSFP data on a pixel-by-pixel basis. Simulations 
indicate that NLA offers improved signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) over the more 
standard maximum intensity projection (MIP) reconstruction. NLA is compared to 
MIP in simulations and volunteer tests. Simulations suggest that NLA provides 
substantially improved SNR compared to MIP. In a randomized blinded comparison 
of 10 volunteer studies, two radiologists found that NLA, compared to MIP, gave 
improved results. NLA also provided superior noise reduction and enhanced edge 
sharpness compared to MIP. We demonstrate that NLA, similar to MIP, improves SNR 
and image quality. It does so consistently in all situations to which it is 
applied.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mri.2006.09.013
PMID: 17371725 [Indexed for MEDLINE]