[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Complex Circuit Systems | Topic: Stretchable electronics | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Stretchable electronics — Overview

the substrate, causes the spiral interconnects to stretch and deform significantly more than the serpentine structures. CMOS inverters constructed on a PDMS substrate employing 3D island interconnect technologies demonstrated 140% strain at stretching. Kirigami is built around the concept of folding and cutting in 2D membranes. This contributes to an increase in the tensile strength of the substrate, as well as its out-of-plane deformation and stretchability. These 2D structures can subsequently be turned to 3D structures with varied topography, shape, and size controllability via the Buckling process, resulting in interesting properties and applications. Energy 

Several stretchable energy storage devices and supercapacitors are made using carbon-based materials such as single-walled carbon nanotubes (SWCNTs). A study by Li et al. showed a stretchable supercapacitor (composed of buckled SWCNTs macrofilm and elastomeric separators on an elastic PDMS substrate), that performed dynamic charging and discharging. The key drawback of this stretchable energy storage technology is the low specific capacitance and energy density, although this can potentially be improved by the incorporation of redox materials, for example the SWNT/MnO2 electrode. Another approach to creating a stretchable energy storage device is the use of Origami folding principles. The resulting origami battery achieved significant linear and areal deformability, large twistability and bendability. Medicine 

Stretchable electronics could be integrated into smart garments to interact seamlessly with the human body and detect diseases or collect patient data in a non-invasive manner. For example, researchers from Seoul National University and MC10 (a flexible-electronics company) have developed a patch that is able to detect glucose levels in sweat and can deliver the medicine needed on demand (insulin or metformin). The patch consists of graphene riddled with gold particles and contains sensors that are able to detect temperature, pH level, glucose, and humidity. Stretchable electronics also permit developers to create soft robots, to implement minimally invasive surgeries in hospitals. Especially when it comes to surgeries of the brain and every millimeter is important, such robots may have a more precise scope of action than a human. Tactile Sensing 
Rigid electronics doesn't typically conform well to soft, biological organisms and tissue. Since stretchable electronics is not limited by this, some researchers try to implement it as sensors for touch, or tactile sensing. One way of achieving this is to make an array of conductive OFET (Organic Field Effect Transistors) forming a network that can detect local changes in capacitance, which gives the user information about where the contact occurred. This could have potential use in robotics and virtual reality applications. See also 
 Flexible electronics
 Soft robotics
 Stretch sensor

References

External links 
 
 
 

Electronics manufacturing
Electronic engineering