[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: natural product antibiotic drug discovery | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: natural product antibiotic drug discovery]

45. Nat Protoc. 2014;9(6):1469-79. doi: 10.1038/nprot.2014.093. Epub 2014 May 29.

Antibiotic resistance-mediated isolation of scaffold-specific natural product 
producers.

Thaker MN(1), Waglechner N(1), Wright GD(1).

Author information:
(1)M.G. DeGroote Institute for Infectious Disease Research, Department of 
Biochemistry and Biomedical Sciences, McMaster University, Hamilton, Ontario, 
Canada.

For over half a century, actinomycetes have served as the most promising source 
of novel antibacterial scaffolds. However, over the years, there has been a 
decline in the discovery of new antibiotics from actinomycetes. This is partly 
due to the use of standard screening methods and platforms that result in the 
re-discovery of the same molecules. Thus, according to current estimates, the 
discovery of a new antibacterial requires screening of tens to hundreds of 
thousands of bacterial strains. We have devised a resistance-based antibacterial 
discovery platform by harnessing the innate self-protection mechanism of 
antibiotic producers. This protocol provides a detailed method for isolation of 
scaffold-specific antibacterial producers by isolating strains in the presence 
of a selective antibiotic. As a specific example, we describe isolation of 
glycopeptide antibiotic (GPA) producers from soil actinomycetes, using 
vancomycin as the antibiotic resistance filter. However, the protocol can be 
adapted to isolate diverse producers from various sources producing different 
scaffolds, by selecting an appropriate antibiotic as a screening filter. The 
protocol provides a solution for two major bottlenecks that impede the new drug 
discovery pipeline: low hit frequency and re-discovery of known molecules. The 
entire protocol, from soil collection to identification of putative 
antibacterial producers, takes about 6 weeks to complete.

DOI: 10.1038/nprot.2014.093
PMID: 24874813 [Indexed for MEDLINE]