[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: Giacinto Cestoni | Type: Instruction-QA | Level: Graduate]

Question: Provide a comprehensive expert-level explanation of Giacinto Cestoni in the context of Applied Sciences.

Answer:
Diacinto (or Giacinto) Cestoni (May 13, 1637 – January 29, 1718) was an Italian naturalist, biologist, botanist, entomologist. Born in Montegiorgio, he was self-taught. He lived and worked at Livorno where he led an apothecary next to the port. He studied insects, animals, plants and drugs. Cestoni showed that scabies is caused by Sarcoptes scabiei.

Biography 
Cestoni was born in a poor household in Montegiorgio, region of Marche, to Vittorio and Settimia Cestoni. When Cestoni was 11, he left school and entered in the service of a local apothecary where he spent two years as an apprentice, preparing and selling medicines.

Cestoni's time with the local apothecary in Montegiorgio piqued his interest towards natural sciences and in 1650 his family sent him to Rome, where he worked under Roman pharmacist Francesco Boncori. He lived and worked in Rome for the next few years. 

In 1656, Cestoni moved to the port city of Livorno where he started working in Francesco Salomoni's apothecary shop. After working in Salomoni's shop for a brief time period, Cestoni left Livorno and would spend the next several years traveling through different cities including Marseille and Lyon to Geneva, practicing and conducting research.

Cestoni returned to Livorno in 1666, resuming administrative duties at his former employer Salomoni's store. He married Salomoni's wife's sister Margherita Tiburzi in 1668. Seven years into the marriage the couple had a son who died a few months after birth.

In 1680, Cestoni became acquainted with physician Francesco Redi. The two became friends and began a lively correspondence, which is known chiefly through Redi's letters.

The scientific correspondence between the two researchers lasted years until the death of Redi in 1697. Influenced by Redi, Cestoni furthered his research and would often ask his friends for advice.

After Redi's death, Cestoni began to write letters to Antonio Vallisnieri discussing his scientific observations. The two exchanged 583 letters over the next twenty years. Most of Cestoni's research observations recorded in these letters were made before 1697. Vallisnieri published part of Cestoni's observations, inserting them into his own works or into journals such as the Galleria di Minerva and the Giornale de’ letterati d’Italia. Among the few observations published abroad were those on the metamorphic cycle of the flea which appeared in the Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society.

Cestoni died on January 29, 1718. He was suffering from bladder stones and urethral stenosis.

Scientific Research 
Cestoni was self taught. He had no academic qualifications and started making observations at a young age and although he never had a proper education most of what he learned was through his own observations and through collaborating with others including Francesco Redi and Antonio Vallisnieri. He composed several works on natural history. Most of his research was printed in the works of his friend Vallisnieri.

Pharmacology 

Cestoni's had an interest in plants and herbs, analyzing drugs and their medicinal effects. The pharmacological aspect was extensively treated by Cestoni, who among other things was always very attentive to the different opinions on the use of medicines. As an apothecary he studied different contagious diseases and carried out treatment trials using different drugs. The method followed by Cestoni for medicines was through trial and testing, and observing on their effectiveness. Since Cestoni was not a doctor he heavily relied on consulting his friend Redi for many of his medical trials.

Evidence of his main pharmacological studies are found in his letters to Redi and other friends and colleagues. In these letters, Cestoni recorded observations of many plants including sarsaparilla and Cinchona.

Cestoni's research on cinchona was important at the time. He was able to devise a safe treating mechanism using cinchona which he shared with his friend Vallisnieri in letters. He made some recommendations regarding cinchona. Cestoni wrote about its effectiveness in powdered form and the dosage and methodology of consuming the drug.

In his correspondences with his friend, Cestoni also wrote about his observations and experiments with Sarsaparilla. Cestoni examined the sarsaparilla, a plant whose roots are used to make medicine, also historically used in treating syphilis. Cestoni was able to prepare a decoction and also provided information on the method and the exact dose of administration.

Cestoni also studied the effects of foods and drinks such as chocolate, coffee and lemongrass. Cestoni believed that chocolate consumption should be balanced. He called it nutritious but bad for the stomach if consumed in large quantities. In his letters, Cestoni indicates that he did not consider chocolate a medicine, but a tasty food that's hard to digest and therefore whoever consumes it in small quantities will be healthy. He recommended health compromised individuals not to take it.

Biology 
His main research area was observing insect reproduction, and through his observation with a microscope he eventually discovered the viviparity and parthenogenesis of aphids.

Among one of his letters sent to Vallisneri on August 19, 1697, he revealed that he had observed flea's eggs and that from these eggs "lactated white bacherelli" were born which, after two weeks, grew and made a silk thread come out of their mouth. which was used for the construction of the cocoon; the flea grew inside the cocoon and formed completely before exiting. He also observed other insect species including green grasshoppers, scorpions, woodworms, cabbage insects, worms and studied insect galls and discovered galls on oak trees were caused by flies.

He also studied the coral and his investigations on coral are found in a study made by G. De Toni. who stated in 1723 that Cestoni had asserted that the coral was nothing but "an insect similar to a small sea oyster or octopus."