[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: laser dermatology skin treatment tattoo hair | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: laser dermatology skin treatment tattoo hair]

19. Curr Probl Dermatol. 2022;56:141-154. doi: 10.1159/000529810. Epub 2023 Jun
1.

Microblading Technique for Tattooing of "Hairstrokes" That Simulate Natural 
Hair: Eyebrow Tattooing and Correction of Medical Conditions.

Hvas D(1), Serup J(2).

Author information:
(1)Perfecting Beauty, Rødovre, Denmark.
(2)Bispebjerg University Hospital, Department of Dermatology, the Tattoo Clinic, 
Copenhagen, Denmark.

Microblading is a rapidly expanding technique in cosmetic and medical tattooing, 
used for eyebrow correction and conditions of hair loss. Tattooing is performed 
by hand using a special blade; tiny cuts in the outer skin are filled with dark 
pigment to simulate a natural hair. Indications, the technique, and the 
microblading procedure step-by-step are considered in what follows. Details on 
client selection and a range of pitfalls are discussed. The leading application 
of microblading is cosmetic tattooing of the eyebrows adding pigmented 
"hairstrokes" to the natural brow area. Tattooed "hairstrokes" fade in color 
over months and a repeated "touch up" procedure may be required. Pretreatment 
with laser removal of tattoos of the past may be indicated when a client 
requests a "touch up" with another brow in another style, shape, or extension. 
Microblading carries the risk of scarring. The combination with conventional 
machine-driven needle tattooing for background shading the skin of the brow is 
also discussed. Microblading is also used as a corrective intervention in a 
range of dermatological and medical conditions. Having grown exponentially for 
cosmetic purpose in the first phase of microblading parallel to acquired 
refinement, the method is now mature and ready to make further progress on 
medical indication in the coming second phase. The medical community should 
welcome this opportunity for supplementary correction with restoration of the 
normal brow anatomy added to other achievements in dermatological and medical 
therapy.

© 2023 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000529810
PMID: 37263228 [Indexed for MEDLINE]