[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS neurology | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS neurology]

47. Brain Stimul. 2024 Jul-Aug;17(4):802-812. doi: 10.1016/j.brs.2024.06.008.
Epub  2024 Jun 22.

Transcranial magnetic stimulation of primary motor cortex elicits an immediate 
transcranial evoked potential.

Beck MM(1), Christiansen L(2), Madsen MAJ(1), Jadidi AF(1), Vinding MC(1), 
Thielscher A(3), Bergmann TO(4), Siebner HR(5), Tomasevic L(6).

Author information:
(1)Danish Research Centre for Magnetic Resonance, Centre for Functional and 
Diagnostic Imaging and Research, Copenhagen University Hospital - Amager and 
Hvidovre, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(2)Danish Research Centre for Magnetic Resonance, Centre for Functional and 
Diagnostic Imaging and Research, Copenhagen University Hospital - Amager and 
Hvidovre, Copenhagen, Denmark; Department of Neuroscience, Faculty of Health and 
Medical Sciences, University of Copenhagen, Denmark.
(3)Danish Research Centre for Magnetic Resonance, Centre for Functional and 
Diagnostic Imaging and Research, Copenhagen University Hospital - Amager and 
Hvidovre, Copenhagen, Denmark; Department of Health Technology, Technical 
University of Denmark, Kgs Lyngby, Denmark.
(4)Neuroimaging Center (NIC), Johannes Gutenberg University Medical Center, 
Mainz, Germany; Leibniz Institute for Resilience Research, Mainz, Germany.
(5)Danish Research Centre for Magnetic Resonance, Centre for Functional and 
Diagnostic Imaging and Research, Copenhagen University Hospital - Amager and 
Hvidovre, Copenhagen, Denmark; Department of Neurology, Copenhagen University 
Hospital Bispebjerg and Frederiksberg, Denmark; Department of Clinical Medicine, 
Faculty of Health and Medical Sciences, University of Copenhagen, Denmark.
(6)Danish Research Centre for Magnetic Resonance, Centre for Functional and 
Diagnostic Imaging and Research, Copenhagen University Hospital - Amager and 
Hvidovre, Copenhagen, Denmark. Electronic address: leot@drcmr.dk.

BACKGROUND: Transcranial evoked potentials (TEPs) measured via 
electroencephalography (EEG) are widely used to study the cortical responses to 
transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS). Immediate transcranial evoked 
potentials (i-TEPs) have been obscured by pulse and muscular artifacts. Thus, 
the TEP peaks that are commonly reported have latencies that are too long to be 
caused by direct excitation of cortical neurons.
METHODS: In 25 healthy individuals, we recorded i-TEPs evoked by a single 
biphasic TMS pulse targeting the primary motor hand area (M1HAND) or parietal or 
midline control sites. Sampling EEG at 50 kHz enabled us to reduce the duration 
of the TMS pulse artifact to a few milliseconds, while minor adjustments of the 
TMS coil tilt or position enabled us to avoid cranial muscular twitches during 
the experiment.
RESULTS: We observed an early positive EEG deflection starting after approx. 
2 ms followed by a series of superimposed peaks with an inter-peak interval of 
∼1.1-1.4 ms in multiple electrodes surrounding the stimulated sensorimotor 
region. This multi-peak i-TEP response was only evoked by TMS of the M1HAND 
region and was modified by changes in stimulation intensity and current 
direction.
DISCUSSION: Single-pulse TMS of the M1HAND evokes an immediate local multi-peak 
response at the cortical site of stimulation. Our results suggest that the 
observed i-TEP patterns are genuine cortical responses evoked by TMS caused by 
synchronized excitation of pyramidal neurons in the targeted precentral cortex. 
This notion needs to be corroborated in future studies, including further 
investigations into the potential contribution of instrumental or physiological 
artifacts.

Copyright © 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.brs.2024.06.008
PMID: 38909748 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest Hartwig R. 
Siebner has received honoraria as speaker from Lundbeck AS, Denmark, as ad-hoc 
consultant from Lundbeck AS, Denmark, and as editor (Neuroimage Clinical) from 
Elsevier Publishers, Amsterdam, The Netherlands. He has received royalties as 
book editor from Springer Publishers, Stuttgart, Germany, Oxford University 
Press, Oxford, UK, and from Gyldendal Publishers, Copenhagen, Denmark. The other 
authors declare no conflict of interest.