[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: magnetic resonance spectroscopy metabolite brain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: magnetic resonance spectroscopy metabolite brain]

10. J Alzheimers Dis. 2024 Dec;102(4):1057-1073. doi: 10.1177/13872877241295401. 
Epub 2024 Nov 25.

Sleep disturbance impaired memory consolidation via lateralized disruption of 
metabolite in the thalamus and hippocampus: A cross-sectional proton magnetic 
resonance spectroscopy study.

Fan X(1)(2), Mao X(3), Yu P(1)(2), Han D(3), Chen C(1)(2), Wang H(3), Zhang 
X(1)(2), Liu S(3), Chen W(1)(2), Chen Z(3), Du X(3), Jin L(4), Song Y(3), Li 
H(3), Zhang N(2)(5), Wu Y(3), Chang L(3), Wang C(2)(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Beijing Tiantan Hospital, Capital Medical 
University, Beijing, China.
(2)Department of Neurology, China National Clinical Research Center for 
Neurological Diseases, Beijing Tiantan Hospital, Beijing, China.
(3)Department of Anatomy, School of Basic Medical Sciences, Beijing Key 
Laboratory of Neural Regeneration and Repair, Beijing Institute of Brain 
Disorders, Capital Medical University, Beijing, China.
(4)Electron Microscope Room of Central Laboratory, Capital Medical University, 
Beijing, China.
(5)Department of Neuropsychiatry and Behavioral Neurology and Clinical 
Psychology, Capital Medical University, Beijing, China.
(6)Beijing Institute of Brain Disorders, Collaborative Innovation Center for 
Brain Disorders, Capital Medical University, Beijing, China.

BACKGROUND: Memory consolidation in sleep-dependent individuals involves the 
circuitry connections of cortex, thalamus and hippocampus, regulating via neural 
metabolites. However, the disruption of metabolic pattern in thalamus and 
hippocampus remains unclear.
OBJECTIVE: We aim to explore the disruptive effects of insomnia on the 
metabolites during memory consolidation, particularly the underlying 
neurometabolic mechanisms in comorbidity of failed memory consolidation.
METHODS: This study integrates clinical research with animal experiment. In 
clinical research, 49 participants were divided into four groups: healthy 
controls (HC, n = 11), insomnia with normal cognition (IS, n = 14), mild 
cognitive impairment without insomnia (MCI, n = 10), and insomnia with mild 
cognitive impairment (IS-MCI, n = 14). Magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) was 
used to evaluate the neural γ-aminobutyric acid (GABA) and glutamate-glutamine 
(Glx) in bilateral thalamus. In experimental studies, the rat model of sleep 
deprivation combined with amyloid-β (Aβ) injection was established, after 
behavior testing, the levels of Glx, choline (Cho) and N-acetyl aspartate (NAA) 
in the bilateral hippocampus were evaluated with MRS.
RESULTS: The patients in the IS-MCI group exhibited significantly lower GABA 
level than IS, MCI and HC groups. Results from rat studies showed that sleep 
deprivation exacerbated asymmetric alterations in Aβ-induced bilateral 
hippocampal metabolite abnormalities, which correlated with cognition. These 
neuro-metabolite disruption accompanied with synaptic loss and activation of 
astrocytes.
CONCLUSIONS: The lateralized decrease in GABA levels of thalamus and NAA, Cho, 
and Glx levels of hippocampus under conditions of sleep disturbance with 
cognitive decline may provide evidence for the neural metabolic mechanisms 
underlying the disruption of memory consolidation.

DOI: 10.1177/13872877241295401
PMID: 39584303 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsThe authors 
declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the research, 
authorship, and/or publication of this article.