[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: A Modern Herbal — Mrs. M. Grieve | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# A Modern Herbal — Mrs. M. Grieve — Overview

includes all other, for man is a living animal, and science is the work of his co-operating mind, one of the functions of his living activity. What this involves on the philosophical side does not concern us here, but it is necessary to indicate here the nature of the contact between the two great divisions of science, the mechanical and the biological, considered purely as sciences. For,
though we know that our consciousness as a function of life must in some
form come into the science of life, and is, in a sense, above it all, we
are yet able to draw conclusions, apparently of infinite scope, about
the behaviour of all living things around us and including ourselves,
just as we do about a stone or a star. And we are interested in this
chapter in seeing how this drawing of general conclusions keeps growing
with regard to the phenomena of life, just as it has grown with regard
to all other phenomena, and we have to consider what sort of difference
there is between the one class of generalizations and the other. For those of us who are content to rest their conclusions on the
positively known, who, while not setting any limits to the possible
extension of knowledge, are not prepared to dogmatize about it, it is
still necessary to draw a line. A dualism remains, name and fact alike
abhorrent to the completely logical philosophic mind. On the one hand
the ordinary laws of physical science are constantly extending their
sphere; on the other, the fact of life still remains unexplained by
them, and becomes in itself more and more marvellous as we investigate
it. The general position remains much as Johannes Mueller expressed it
about the middle of the last century, himself sometimes described as the
central figure in the history of modern physiology. 'Though there
appears to be something in the phenomena of living beings which cannot
be explained by ordinary mechanical, physical, or chemical laws, much
may be so explained, and we may without fear push these explanations as
far as we can, so long as we keep to the solid ground of observation and
experiment.' Since this was written the double process has gone on
apace. The chemistry and physics of living matter are being sketched,
and biologists are more and more inclined to study the mechanical
expression of the facts of life. Mr. Bateson, for instance, tells us
that the greatest advance that we can foresee will be made 'when it is
possible to connect the geometrical phenomena of development with the
chemical'. The process of applying physical laws to life follows, it
would seem, the reverse order of their original development. First the
chemistry of organic matter was investigated, then the physical
attraction of their molecules, and now their geometry is in question. So, says Professor Bateson, the 'geometrical symmetry of living things
is the key to a knowledge of their regularity and the forces which cause
it. In the symmetry of the dividing cell the basis of that resemblance
which we call Heredity is contained'. But such work as this is still largely speculative and in the future. It
does not solve the secret of life. It does not affect the fact of
consciousness which we are free to conceive, if we will, as the other
side of what we call matter, evolving with it from the most rudimentary
forms into the highest known form in man, or still further into some
super-personal or universal form. This, however, is philosophy or
metaphysics. We are here concerned with the progress of science, in one
of its two great departments, i.e. knowledge about life and all its
known manifestations, which from Aristotle onwards have been subjected
to a scrutiny similar to that which has been given to the physical facts
of the universe and with results in many points similar also. But the
facts, although superficially more familiar, are infinitely more
complicated, and the scrutiny has only commenced in earnest some hundred
years ago. Considering the short space for this concentrated and
systematic study, the results are at least as wonderful as those
achieved by the physicists. Two or three points of suggestive analogy
between the courses of the two great branches of science may here be
mentioned. We will put first the fundamental question on which, as we have seen, no
final answer has yet been reached: What is life, and is there any
evidence of life arising from the non-living? Now this baffling and
probably unanswerable question--unanswerable, that is, in terms which go
beyond the physical concomitants of life--has played the part in biology
which the alchemists' quest played in chemistry. It led by the way to a
host of positive discoveries. Aristotle, the father of biology, believed
in spontaneous generation. He was puzzled by the case of parasites,
especially in putrefying matter. Even Harvey, who made the first great
definite discovery about the mechanism of the body, agreed with
Aristotle in this error. It was left for the minute and careful
inquirers of the nineteenth century to dispose of the myth.