[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: MRI physics image quality artifact reduction | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: MRI physics image quality artifact reduction]

59. Magn Reson Med. 2018 Jan;79(1):83-96. doi: 10.1002/mrm.26639. Epub 2017 Mar
5.

Low rank alternating direction method of multipliers reconstruction for MR 
fingerprinting.

Assländer J(1)(2)(3), Cloos MA(1)(2), Knoll F(1)(2), Sodickson DK(1)(2), Hennig 
J(3), Lattanzi R(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, New York University School of Medicine, Bernard and 
Irene Schwartz Center for Biomedical Imaging, New York, New York, USA.
(2)Department of Radiology, New York University School of Medicine, Center for 
Advanced Imaging Innovation and Research (CAI2R), New York, New York, USA.
(3)Department of Radiology, Medical Physics, Medical Center, University of 
Freiburg, Faculty of Medicine, University of Freiburg, Freiburg, Germany.

PURPOSE: The proposed reconstruction framework addresses the reconstruction 
accuracy, noise propagation and computation time for magnetic resonance 
fingerprinting.
METHODS: Based on a singular value decomposition of the signal evolution, 
magnetic resonance fingerprinting is formulated as a low rank (LR) inverse 
problem in which one image is reconstructed for each singular value under 
consideration. This LR approximation of the signal evolution reduces the 
computational burden by reducing the number of Fourier transformations. Also, 
the LR approximation improves the conditioning of the problem, which is further 
improved by extending the LR inverse problem to an augmented Lagrangian that is 
solved by the alternating direction method of multipliers. The root mean square 
error and the noise propagation are analyzed in simulations. For verification, 
in vivo examples are provided.
RESULTS: The proposed LR alternating direction method of multipliers approach 
shows a reduced root mean square error compared to the original fingerprinting 
reconstruction, to a LR approximation alone and to an alternating direction 
method of multipliers approach without a LR approximation. Incorporating 
sensitivity encoding allows for further artifact reduction.
CONCLUSION: The proposed reconstruction provides robust convergence, reduced 
computational burden and improved image quality compared to other magnetic 
resonance fingerprinting reconstruction approaches evaluated in this study. Magn 
Reson Med 79:83-96, 2018. © 2017 International Society for Magnetic Resonance in 
Medicine.

© 2017 International Society for Magnetic Resonance in Medicine.

DOI: 10.1002/mrm.26639
PMCID: PMC5585028
PMID: 28261851 [Indexed for MEDLINE]