[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS neurology | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS neurology]

85. Acta Neurol Belg. 2003 Sep;103(3):144-54.

Transcranial magnetic stimulation in migraine: a review of facts and 
controversies.

Fumal A(1), Bohotin V, Vandenheede M, Schoenen J.

Author information:
(1)Departments of Neurology and Neuroanatomy, University of Liège, B-4000 Liège, 
Belgium.

There is compelling evidence that cortical excitability is modified in migraine 
patients between attacks. Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) is a 
non-invasive tool to investigate this abnormality. Repetitive transcranial 
magnetic stimulation (rTMS) activates the underlying cortex at high, but 
inhibits it at low stimulation frequencies. This is a review of published 
results obtained in migraineurs with TMS and rTMS over motor or visual cortices. 
Prevalence and/or threshold data of phosphenes induced by single pulse TMS of 
the visual cortex are contradictory, some favouring increased, others decreased 
interictal excitability. The discrepancies may be due to differences in 
methodology and poor reliability of phosphene reporting. In a recent rTMS study 
of the occipital cortex we have found evidence in favour of an interictal 
decrease of the preactivation excitability level by using amplitude of visual 
evoked potentials and its habituation during sustained stimulation as indices of 
cortical excitability. The hypothesis of increased cortical excitability, taken 
in its strict physiological sense of a decreased response threshold and/or an 
increased response to a single suprathreshold stimulus, may thus not be any 
longer tenable. The long lasting effects of rTMS allow in future studies to 
assess metabolic changes of the cortex and subcortical structures with 
functional imaging methods and to explore novel therapeutic strategies for 
migraine.

PMID: 14626694 [Indexed for MEDLINE]