[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: nanoparticle drug delivery tumor targeting cancer | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: nanoparticle drug delivery tumor targeting cancer]

25. Int J Nanomedicine. 2024 Sep 10;19:9351-9370. doi: 10.2147/IJN.S478313. 
eCollection 2024.

Advancing Ovarian Cancer Therapeutics: The Role of Targeted Drug Delivery 
Systems.

Lin Q(1), Li J(1), Abudousalamu Z(1), Sun Y(1), Xue M(1), Yao L(2), Chen M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Gynecologic Oncology, Obstetrics and Gynecology Hospital, Fudan 
University, Shanghai, People's Republic of China.
(2)Department of Gynecologic Oncology, Women and Children's Medical Center, 
Guangzhou Medical University, Guangzhou, People's Republic of China.

Ovarian cancer (OC) is the most lethal reproductive system cancer and a leading 
cause of cancer-related death. The high mortality rate and poor prognosis of OC 
are primarily due to its tendency for extensive abdominal metastasis, late 
diagnosis in advanced stages, an immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment, 
significant adverse reactions to first-line chemotherapy, and the development of 
chemoresistance. Current adjuvant chemotherapies face challenges such as poor 
targeting, low efficacy, and significant side effects. Targeted drug delivery 
systems (TDDSs) are designed to deliver drugs precisely to the tumor site to 
enhance efficacy and minimize side effects. This review highlights recent 
advancements in the use of TDDSs for OC therapies, including drug conjugate 
delivery systems, nanoparticle drug delivery systems, and hydrogel drug delivery 
systems. The focus is on employing TDDS to conduct direct, effective, and safer 
interventions in OC through methods such as targeted tumor recognition and 
controlled drug release, either independently or in combination. This review 
also discusses the prospects and challenges for further development of TDDSs. 
Undoubtedly, the use of TDDSs shows promise in the battle against OCs.

© 2024 Lin et al.

DOI: 10.2147/IJN.S478313
PMCID: PMC11401532
PMID: 39282574 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest in 
this work.