[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: adaptogen ashwagandha stress cortisol clinical | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: adaptogen ashwagandha stress cortisol clinical]

1. Indian J Psychol Med. 2012 Jul;34(3):255-62. doi: 10.4103/0253-7176.106022.

A prospective, randomized double-blind, placebo-controlled study of safety and 
efficacy of a high-concentration full-spectrum extract of ashwagandha root in 
reducing stress and anxiety in adults.

Chandrasekhar K(1), Kapoor J, Anishetty S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neuropsychiatry and Geriatric Psychiatry, Asha Hospital, 
Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh, India.

CONTEXT: Stress is a state of mental or emotional strain or tension, which can 
lead to underperformance and adverse clinical conditions. Adaptogens are herbs 
that help in combating stress. Ayurvedic classical texts, animal studies and 
clinical studies describe Ashwagandha as a safe and effective adaptogen.
AIMS: The aim of the study was to evaluate the safety and efficacy of a 
high-concentration full-spectrum extract of Ashwagandha roots in reducing stress 
and anxiety and in improving the general well-being of adults who were under 
stress.
SETTINGS AND DESIGN: Single center, prospective, double-blind, randomized, 
placebo-controlled trial.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A total of 64 subjects with a history of chronic stress 
were enrolled into the study after performing relevant clinical examinations and 
laboratory tests. These included a measurement of serum cortisol, and assessing 
their scores on standard stress-assessment questionnaires. They were randomized 
to either the placebo control group or the study drug treatment group, and were 
asked to take one capsule twice a day for a period of 60 days. In the study drug 
treatment group, each capsule contained 300 mg of high-concentration 
full-spectrum extract from the root of the Ashwagandha plant. During the 
treatment period (on Day 15, Day 30 and Day 45), a follow-up telephone call was 
made to all subjects to check for treatment compliance and to note any adverse 
reactions. Final safety and efficacy assessments were done on Day 60.
STATISTICAL ANALYSIS: t-test, Mann-Whitney test.
RESULTS: The treatment group that was given the high-concentration full-spectrum 
Ashwagandha root extract exhibited a significant reduction (P<0.0001) in scores 
on all the stress-assessment scales on Day 60, relative to the placebo group. 
The serum cortisol levels were substantially reduced (P=0.0006) in the 
Ashwagandha group, relative to the placebo group. The adverse effects were mild 
in nature and were comparable in both the groups. No serious adverse events were 
reported.
CONCLUSION: The findings of this study suggest that a high-concentration 
full-spectrum Ashwagandha root extract safely and effectively improves an 
individual's resistance towards stress and thereby improves self-assessed 
quality of life.

DOI: 10.4103/0253-7176.106022
PMCID: PMC3573577
PMID: 23439798

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: None.