[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Propulsion Mechanics | Topic: United Launch Alliance | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# United Launch Alliance — Overview

In May 2020, ULA launched an Atlas V rocket carrying the USSF-7 mission with the X-37B spaceplane for the U.S Space Force and the mission honored victims of the COVID-19 pandemic as well as first responders, health professionals, military personnel, and other essential workers. On 30 July 2020, Atlas V in the 541 configuration successfully launched Perseverance and Ingenuity as part of Mars 2020 towards Mars. In November 2020, ULA launched NROL-101, a top secret spy satellite for the National Reconnaissance Office, on board their Atlas V in a 531 configuration. This launch was notable because it was the first flight of the GEM-63 solid rocket boosters, a version of which will be used on their Vulcan Centaur launch vehicle. 2021
On 18 May 2021, the SBIRS GEO 5 missile-warning satellite was launched on an Atlas V 421 rocket. The Lucy spaceflight began on 16 October 2021 upon launch aboard a United Launch Alliance Atlas V 401 rocket into a stable parking orbit. During the next hour, the second stage reignited to place Lucy on an interplanetary trajectory in a heliocentric orbit on a twelve-year mission to two groups of Sun-Jupiter Lagrange point Trojan asteroids as well as a close flyby of a mainbelt asteroid during one of three planned passes through the asteroid belt. If the spacecraft remains operational during the 12-year planned duration, it is likely the controlled flight will be continued and directed at additional asteroid targets. Infrastructure

Launch facilities 

ULA operates orbital launch sites at Cape Canaveral Space Force Station in Cape Canaveral, Florida, and Vandenberg Space Force Base near Lompoc, California. In Florida, ULA has used Space Launch Complex 41 for Atlas V launches since its maiden flight in August 2002, and Launch Complex 37 for Delta IV launches since the rocket's maiden flight in November 2002. Aging infrastructure and low flight cadence from LC-37 contributed to a number of delays in the launch of NROL-44. ULA is looking to mitigate this with improvement to their operations readiness process. The company has one launch pad at Vandenberg as of 2023: Space Launch Complex 3 for Atlas and Vulcan launches. Space Launch Complex 6 is no longer in use since the last Delta IV Heavy launch from there in 2022. Space Launch Complex 2 is no longer in active use by ULA since the retirement of the Delta II in September 2018. Launches from Cape Canaveral typically head east to give satellites extra momentum from the rotation of the Earth as they head to other planets or into an equatorial orbit. Vandenberg Space Force Base is the primary U.S. launch site from which satellites are sent into polar orbits. Commercial and military spacecraft like imaging and weather satellites need to be launched southward on a path to reach a polar orbit to cover the entire globe. ULA's Atlas V rocket launched NASA's InSight mission to Mars from the West Coast in 2018, the first interplanetary mission to do so. In 2015, as part of the company's transition from the Atlas V and Delta IV launch vehicles to the Vulcan Centaur, ULA announced plans to reduce the number of launch pads in use from five to two by the early 2020s. ULA works closely with the 45th Weather Squadron on its launches from Florida. Headquarters and manufacturing 

ULA's headquarters in Centennial, Colorado is responsible for program management, rocket engineering, testing, and launch support functions. ULA's largest factory is  and located in Decatur, Alabama. A factory in Harlingen, Texas, fabricates and assembles components for the Atlas V rocket. In 2015, the company announced the opening of an engineering and propulsion test center in Pueblo, Colorado. Spaceflight Processing Operations Center 
The Spaceflight Processing Operations Center (SPOC), located near SLC-40 and SLC-41, is used to construct the mobile launcher platform for the Vulcan Centaur launch vehicle. It also serve as a storage room for the Atlas Mobile launcher platform (MLP). On 6 August 2019, the first two parts of Vulcan's MLP were transported to the SPOC. SPOC was formerly known as the Solid Motor Assembly and Readiness Facility (SMARF) during its support of the Titan IVB launch vehicle; it was renamed during Vulcan Centaur's topping ceremony in October 2019. See also 

 Aerojet Rocketdyne (RS-68 and RL10)
 Blue Origin (BE-4)
 National Security Space Launch
 Northrop Grumman Innovation Systems (Graphite-Epoxy Motor)
 RUAG Space (payload fairings, composite structures)
 Jordan Hall (Chief Engineer)

Past launch vehicles
 Delta II
 Delta IV Medium

Other launch vehicle providers
 SpaceX
 United Space Alliance
 Deep Space Transport LLC
 Arianespace
 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries
 Roscosmos

References

External links 

 
2006 establishments in Colorado
Boeing
Commercial launch service providers
American companies established in 2006
Companies based in Centennial, Colorado
Joint ventures
Lockheed Martin
Space Act Agreement companies
Space organizations
Technology companies established in 2006