[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: phytotherapy systematic review clinical evidence | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: phytotherapy systematic review clinical evidence]

31. Respir Med. 2025 Aug-Sep;245:108202. doi: 10.1016/j.rmed.2025.108202. Epub
2025  Jun 7.

Efficacy and safety of phytotherapy and anthroposophic medicine in bronchial 
asthma: A systematic review.

Braunwalder C(1), Ertl J(2), Wullschleger M(2), Timm E(2), Wolf U(2).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Complementary and Integrative Medicine, University of Bern, 
Fabrikstrasse 8, 3012 Bern, Switzerland. Electronic address: 
celine.braunwalder@unibe.ch.
(2)Institute of Complementary and Integrative Medicine, University of Bern, 
Fabrikstrasse 8, 3012 Bern, Switzerland.

BACKGROUND: Bronchial asthma is a highly prevalent health condition associated 
with low quality of life and high economic costs. Treatments from traditional, 
complementary and integrative medicine (TCIM) are commonly used by individuals 
with bronchial asthma. However, a synthesis of the evidence on plant-derived 
medications is lacking.
OBJECTIVE: This review aims to systematically summarize the evidence on the 
efficacy, effectiveness and safety of European/Western phytotherapy (PT) and 
medications from anthroposophic medicine (AM) in individuals with bronchial 
asthma.
METHODS: Four electronic databases and additional references were screened for 
clinical trials published between 1990 and 2023. The findings of the included 
studies were qualitatively synthesized and study quality was assessed.
RESULTS: Of 23 included studies, 19 examined European/Western PT and four 
investigated AM medications. Nine studies of sufficient quality reported 
beneficial effects of various plants (e.g., Nigella sativa) on asthma symptoms, 
pulmonary function and immunological parameters. The medications were considered 
safe in studies that reported on safety.
CONCLUSION: This systematic review suggests several medications from 
European/Western PT and AM that may be beneficial and appear to be safe in the 
treatment of bronchial asthma. However, further rigorous studies are needed to 
provide evidence-based guidance on add-on treatment options for individuals with 
bronchial asthma.

Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.rmed.2025.108202
PMID: 40490159 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare the following financial interests/personal relationships which may be 
considered as potential competing interests: This work was financially supported 
by the grant SAGST P14441 and the Swiss Medical association FMH. The funder had 
no role in the design, data collection, data analysis, and reporting of this 
study. If there are other authors, they declare that they have no known 
competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared 
to influence the work reported in this paper.