[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: pharmacognosy medicinal plant active compound isol | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: pharmacognosy medicinal plant active compound isolation]

39. Asian Pac J Trop Biomed. 2012 Apr;2(4):320-30. doi: 
10.1016/S2221-1691(12)60032-X.

An overview on antidiabetic medicinal plants having insulin mimetic property.

Patel DK(1), Prasad SK, Kumar R, Hemalatha S.

Author information:
(1)Pharmacognosy Research Laboratory, Department of Pharmaceutics, Institute of 
Technology, Banaras Hindu University, Varanasi-221005, India.

Diabetes mellitus is one of the common metabolic disorders acquiring around 2.8% 
of the world's population and is anticipated to cross 5.4% by the year 2025. 
Since long back herbal medicines have been the highly esteemed source of 
medicine therefore, they have become a growing part of modern, high-tech 
medicine. In view of the above aspects the present review provides profiles of 
plants (65 species) with hypoglycaemic properties, available through literature 
source from various database with proper categorization according to the parts 
used, mode of reduction in blood glucose (insulinomimetic or insulin 
secretagogues activity) and active phytoconstituents having insulin mimetics 
activity. From the review it was suggested that, plant showing hypoglycemic 
potential mainly belongs to the family Leguminoseae, Lamiaceae, Liliaceae, 
Cucurbitaceae, Asteraceae, Moraceae, Rosaceae and Araliaceae. The most active 
plants are Allium sativum, Gymnema sylvestre, Citrullus colocynthis, Trigonella 
foenum greacum, Momordica charantia and Ficus bengalensis. The review describes 
some new bioactive drugs and isolated compounds from plants such as roseoside, 
epigallocatechin gallate, beta-pyrazol-1-ylalanine, cinchonain Ib, leucocyandin 
3-O-beta-d-galactosyl cellobioside, leucopelargonidin-3- O-alpha-L rhamnoside, 
glycyrrhetinic acid, dehydrotrametenolic acid, strictinin, isostrictinin, 
pedunculagin, epicatechin and christinin-A showing significant insulinomimetic 
and antidiabetic activity with more efficacy than conventional hypoglycaemic 
agents. Thus, from the review majorly, the antidiabetic activity of medicinal 
plants is attributed to the presence of polyphenols, flavonoids, terpenoids, 
coumarins and other constituents which show reduction in blood glucose levels. 
The review also discusses the management aspect of diabetes mellitus using these 
plants and their active principles.

DOI: 10.1016/S2221-1691(12)60032-X
PMCID: PMC3609288
PMID: 23569923 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest statement: We declare that 
we have no conflict of interest.