[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: Anti-communist resistance in Poland (1944–1989) | Type: Instruction-QA | Level: Graduate]

Question: Provide a comprehensive expert-level explanation of Anti-communist resistance in Poland (1944–1989) in the context of Applied Sciences.

Answer:
Anti-communist resistance in Poland can be divided into two types: the armed partisan struggle, mostly led by former Armia Krajowa and Narodowe Siły Zbrojne soldiers, which ended in the late 1950s (see cursed soldiers), and the non-violent, civil resistance struggle that culminated in the creation and victory of the Solidarity trade union.

Armed resistance

 Cursed soldiers
 NIE
 Ruch Oporu Armii Krajowej

Freedom and Independence Association 
The Freedom and Independence Association (, or WiN) was a Polish underground anticommunist organisation founded on September 2, 1945 and active until 1952.

National Armed Forces
The National Armed Forces (NSZ; Polish: Narodowe Siły Zbrojne) was a Polish right-wing underground military organization of the National Democracy operating from 1942 until 1947. During World War II, NSZ troops fought against Nazi Germany and communist partisans. In March 1944 the NSZ split, with one faction coming under the command of the Home Army while the other part became known as the NSZ-ZJ (the Lizard Union). This branch of the NSZ conducted operations against Polish communist activists, partisans and secret police, the Soviet partisans, NKVD and SMERSH, and their own (NSZ) former leaders. 
During the war, the NSZ fought the Polish communists, including their military organizations such as the Gwardia Ludowa (GL) and the Armia Ludowa (AL). After the war, former NSZ members were persecuted  by the newly installed communist government of the Polish People's Republic. Reportedly, communist partisans engaged in planting false evidence, such as documents and forged receipts at the sites of their own robberies, in order to blame the NSZ. It was a method of political warfare practiced against the NSZ also by the Ministry of Public Security of Poland and Milicja Obywatelska (MO) right after the war, as revealed by communist Poland's court documents. Members of the NSZ, like other "cursed soldiers", and their families were persecuted during the postwar Stalinist period. In the fall of 1946, 100-200 soldiers of an NSZ unit under the command of Henryk Flame, nom de guerre "Bartek," were lured into a trap and massacred by communist military and police forces.

In 1992, acknowledging its contribution to the fight for Poland's sovereignty, Polish authorities recognized National Armed Forces underground soldiers as war veterans. The Polish Parliament Sejm passed a bill in 2012 commemorating the 70th anniversary of the creation of Narodowe Siły Zbrojne in 1942. Members of the Sejm who supported the resolution pointed out that NSZ members became the most obstinate target of repressions and hate propaganda by security apparatus under Stalinism.

 National Military Union 
 Konspiracyjne Wojsko Polskie  
 Armia Krajowa Obywatelska 
 Armed Forces Delegation for Poland
 Poznań protests of 1956

Civil resistance
1968 Polish political crisis
1970 Polish protests
Dissident movement in the People's Republic of Poland
Letter of 59
Workers' Defence Committee - Komitet Obrony Robotników, KOR
Movement for Defence of Human and Civic Rights
Solidarity
Polish Round Table Agreement

See also
Polish government-in-exile

References

External links
Polish Underground Soldiers 1944-1963 - The Untold Story

Anti-communism in Poland
Anti-communist resistance movements in Eastern Europe
Polish dissident organisations