[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Propulsion Mechanics | Topic: Flying Machines — W.J. Jackman (early aerodynamics) | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Flying Machines — W.J. Jackman (early aerodynamics) — Overview

and to bee laughed at amonge nations & peoples, on this side of them: And if that women should take tabourets in their handes, as we read that the women of Israel haue done: would not men thinke that they were out of their witt: which notwihstanding was not found in thought straung among the Israelites, because this was the custome of the nation and people. It
is true, that a man may also referr the tabourets & other instrumentes
of musicke to the ceremonies of Moyses law: which ceremonies haue bene
abolished at the comming of Jesus Christ, in so much that at this day
where we are under the Gospell, wee must use the same more soberly,
and sparingly, & with greater modesty: but all that, hath nothinge
common with the daunses of this present time or age. These three poyntes being dispatched we fynd and see cleerely, what
affinity & agreement there is, betweene these twoo maners of
daunses. [Sidenote: 2. Sam. 6.]  Our daunsers do yet further alledge
an other parcel or peece of the scripture written in the booke of the
Kinges, where it is said, that Dauid leaped and daunsed before the
Arke of the Lord. [Sidenote: Mark this you that folowe daunsing
scholes.]  But so far of is it, that this serueth them to mayntayne
their daunses, that I would not wish to haue a more proper, fitt,
playne, and agreeable place to confute them. For if Dauid hath had a
like affection in his daunse, as they haue in theirs, that is to say,
to please the gentlewoman and Ladies, as our daunsers endeuor, studye
& deuise to please their minions and flattering dames, Michol his
wife, had neuer mocked him. He might then haue daunsed more
pleasantly, and after a fashion more agreeable to the flesh: and for
trueth, hee might haue done it beyng light or nimble by nature, and
able or meete to do al thinges. But the answeare which he made his wife Michol, very well declareth,
that hee pretended or purposed no other thinge but to set out by
outward gestures, the greatnes of the ioy which he had conceaued in
his harte, because of the presence of God. This was (sayd he) before
the Lord which I haue done in this behalfe: it appeareth by this
aunsweare, that his affection was not in or on the world, and that he
cared not much for the iudgement of Michol, and of all other
worldlings, because he would not please them, nor satisfy or feede
their fine and goodly eyes, by his daunsing. Wherfore we must conclude
that Dauid condemneth the worldlines of his wife, and such other as
shee: yea in that that shee was punished by barrennes, which followed
theruppon. It is an evident argument, that God approued or allowed the
doing and saying of the Prophet. [Sidenote: Note you that delight in your art of daunsing] Now if al
they, which make daunsinge their god, would imprint this in their hart
and understanding, they should receaue & use the same, rather to their
condemnation, then to be so much without aforehead, that is to say,
shameles, that they woulde abuse the scripture, to couer their
uncleannes & infection. For this is a most detestable & abhominable
sacriledge, to make the unspeakeable truth of God to serue our wicked
and most shamefull affections. Adde thereunto that he will greeuously
& sharply punish all such scoffers, and prodigall persons which do so
much prophane the maiesty and excellency of his name, and that
diuinity, which is contayned and expressed in the holy scriptures. [Sidenote: Isa. 5.20.]  Moreouer, when we so disguise and chaunge the
nature of thinges that we call good euil, and the euil good, we ought
to assure our selues of the curse of God, pronounced by the prophet
Isaiah, saynge: cursed (sayth he) be they, which say that euil is
good, and that good is euil, which put darknes for light, and light
for darknes, which geue sowre thinges for sweete, and sweete for sower
& bytter. [Sidenote: Daunses not indifferent.]  But I demaund or aske
now, whether they which allow daunses, and place them among
indifferent things, do not call good euil, and euil good: and by
consequent do not inflame and kindle the wrath of God upon them
themselues, and al their fautors or fauourers. All which thinges beyng considered, I hope that diuers knowing what
euil, and mischief there is in daunses, will giue them ouer and cast
them away, thinking or supposing, that in that, that thei haue
retained & fauoured them, euen unto this present, they haue rather
done it thorowe ignoraunce, than thorowe stubburnesse or selfe
will. But as concerning others, whiche will preseuer and continue in
their dissolutnes and loosenesse, the Lord withdraw and plucke them
therefrom, when it pleaseth him, least they incurre or runne headlong
into his wrath and vengeance, which hangeth ouer their heads, for that
they haue obstinatelie and stubburnlie gainesaide and withstood, so
manifest & plaine a truth. * * *

Prayse be to GOD. [Stamp: Lambeth Palace Library]