[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: natural product antibiotic drug discovery | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: natural product antibiotic drug discovery]

87. J Antimicrob Chemother. 2018 Jun 1;73(6):1452-1459. doi: 10.1093/jac/dky019.

Discovery and development of new antibacterial drugs: learning from experience?

Jackson N(1), Czaplewski L(2), Piddock LJV(3).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Biological Sciences, University of Leeds, Leeds LS2 9JT, UK.
(2)Chemical Biology Ventures Ltd, 123 Alexander Close, Abingdon, Oxfordshire 
OX14 1XD, UK.
(3)Antimicrobials Research Group, Institute of Microbiology and Infection, 
University of Birmingham, Birmingham B15 2TT, UK.

Antibiotic (antibacterial) resistance is a serious global problem and the need 
for new treatments is urgent. The current antibiotic discovery model is not 
delivering new agents at a rate that is sufficient to combat present levels of 
antibiotic resistance. This has led to fears of the arrival of a 
'post-antibiotic era'. Scientific difficulties, an unfavourable regulatory 
climate, multiple company mergers and the low financial returns associated with 
antibiotic drug development have led to the withdrawal of many pharmaceutical 
companies from the field. The regulatory climate has now begun to improve, but 
major scientific hurdles still impede the discovery and development of novel 
antibacterial agents. To facilitate discovery activities there must be increased 
understanding of the scientific problems experienced by pharmaceutical 
companies. This must be coupled with addressing the current antibiotic 
resistance crisis so that compounds and ultimately drugs are delivered to treat 
the most urgent clinical challenges. By understanding the causes of the failures 
and successes of the pharmaceutical industry's research history, duplication of 
discovery programmes will be reduced, increasing the productivity of the 
antibiotic drug discovery pipeline by academia and small companies. The most 
important scientific issues to address are getting molecules into the 
Gram-negative bacterial cell and avoiding their efflux. Hence screening 
programmes should focus their efforts on whole bacterial cells rather than 
cell-free systems. Despite falling out of favour with pharmaceutical companies, 
natural product research still holds promise for providing new molecules as a 
basis for discovery.

DOI: 10.1093/jac/dky019
PMID: 29438542 [Indexed for MEDLINE]