[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: phytotherapy systematic review clinical evidence | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: phytotherapy systematic review clinical evidence]

42. Exp Gerontol. 2025 Nov;211:112919. doi: 10.1016/j.exger.2025.112919. Epub
2025  Oct 5.

A systematic review and meta-analysis of clinical trials on lavender for sleep 
disorders in older adults.

Ostovar M(1), Khademizadeh MH(2), Namjoyan F(1), Kazemi A(3), Vakili S(4), 
Mosavat SH(1), Mohit M(5), Hashempur MH(6).

Author information:
(1)Research Center for Traditional Medicine and History of Medicine, Department 
of Persian Medicine, School of Medicine, Shiraz University of Medical Sciences, 
Shiraz, Iran.
(2)Poostchi Ophthalmology Research Center, Department of Ophthalmology, School 
of Medicine, Shiraz University of Medical Sciences, Shiraz, Iran.
(3)Nutrition Research Center, School of Nutrition and Food Sciences, Shiraz 
University of Medical Sciences, Shiraz, Iran.
(4)Infertility Research Center, Shiraz University of Medical Sciences, Shiraz, 
Iran.
(5)Student Research Committee, Department of Clinical Nutrition, School of 
Nutrition and Food Sciences, Shiraz University of Medical Sciences, Shiraz, 
Iran.
(6)Research Center for Traditional Medicine and History of Medicine, Department 
of Persian Medicine, School of Medicine, Shiraz University of Medical Sciences, 
Shiraz, Iran. Electronic address: hashempur@gmail.com.

BACKGROUND: The present study aimed to gather existing findings related to the 
effect of lavender on improving sleep disorders in older adults.
METHODS: In this systematic review, PubMed, Web of Science, Embase, and Scopus 
databases were searched using keywords ((lavender OR Lavandula) AND (sleep OR 
insomnia OR "sleep disturbance" OR "sleep quality" OR "sleep disorder") AND 
(elderly OR elder OR aging OR aging OR "older adult" OR geriatric OR 
geriatrics)) from their inception up to August 20, 2025. Only clinical trials 
evaluating the effect of lavender on aged patients (more than 60 years old) with 
sleep disorders were included. Then, data about drug formulation, dosage, 
duration of treatment, measurements, findings, and adverse events were recorded. 
A random-effects meta-analysis was used to calculate the pooled standardized 
mean differences (SMD) and their corresponding 95 % confidence intervals (CI).
RESULTS: In this study, 84 articles were evaluated, and ten articles were 
selected for full review. In nine studies (90 %), lavender significantly 
improved sleep disorders. The most used scale among the articles was the 
Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI), which was used in seven studies (70 %). 
All the studies reported using lavender in the medicinal form of inhalation. The 
results of the meta-analysis indicated a significant improvement in the total 
score of sleep quality (SMD: -1.20, 95 % CI: -1.73, -0.68, I2: 87.5 %), with a 
more pronounced effect observed in studies that utilized the PSQI questionnaire.
CONCLUSION: Based on preliminary evidence from this review, lavender may 
effectively treat sleep disorders, especially in the elderly. However, more 
research is required to fully understand its effectiveness and safety, 
especially with long-term use.

Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exger.2025.112919
PMID: 41057090 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.