[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: herbal medicine drug interaction pharmacokinetics | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: herbal medicine drug interaction pharmacokinetics]

86. Adv Nutr. 2018 Jul 1;9(4):524S-532S. doi: 10.1093/advances/nmy029.

Clinically Relevant Herb-Micronutrient Interactions: When Botanicals, Minerals, 
and Vitamins Collide.

Gurley BJ(1), Tonsing-Carter A(2)(3), Thomas SL(4), Fifer EK(1).

Author information:
(1)Departments of Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of Arkansas for Medical 
Sciences, Little Rock, AR.
(2)UIC/NIH Center for Botanical Dietary Supplements Research.
(3)Department of Medicinal Chemistry & Pharmacognosy, University of Illinois at 
Chicago, Chicago, IL.
(4)Departments of Education and Reference Services, University of Arkansas for 
Medical Sciences, Little Rock, AR.

The ability of certain foods to impair or augment the absorption of various 
vitamins and minerals has been recognized for many years. However, the 
contribution of botanical dietary supplements (BDSs) to altered micronutrient 
disposition has received little attention. Almost half of the US population uses 
some type of dietary supplement on a regular basis, with vitamin and mineral 
supplements constituting the majority of these products. BDS usage has also 
risen considerably over the last 2 decades, and a number of clinically relevant 
herb-drug interactions have been identified during this time. BDSs are 
formulated as concentrated plant extracts containing a plethora of unique 
phytochemicals not commonly found in the normal diet. Many of these uncommon 
phytochemicals can modulate various xenobiotic enzymes and transporters present 
in both the intestine and liver. Therefore, it is likely that the mechanisms 
underlying many herb-drug interactions can also affect micronutrient absorption, 
distribution, metabolism, and excretion. To date, very few prospective studies 
have attempted to characterize the prevalence and clinical relevance of 
herb-micronutrient interactions. Current research indicates that certain BDSs 
can reduce iron, folate, and ascorbate absorption, and others contribute to 
heavy metal intoxication. Researchers in the field of nutrition may not 
appreciate many of the idiosyncrasies of BDSs regarding product quality and 
dosage form performance. Failure to account for these eccentricities can 
adversely affect the outcome and interpretation of any prospective 
herb-micronutrient interaction study. This review highlights several clinically 
relevant herb-micronutrient interactions and describes several common pitfalls 
that often beset clinical research with BDSs.

DOI: 10.1093/advances/nmy029
PMCID: PMC6054245
PMID: 30032231 [Indexed for MEDLINE]