[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: Moving magnet and conductor problem | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Moving magnet and conductor problem — Overview

conductor. At the time of Einstein in 1905, the field equations as represented by Maxwell's equations were properly consistent. Newton's law of motion, however, had to be modified to provide consistent particle trajectories. Transformation of fields, assuming Galilean transformations Assuming that the magnet frame and the conductor frame are related by a Galilean transformation, it is straightforward to compute the fields and forces in both frames. This will demonstrate that the induced current is indeed the same in both frames. As a byproduct, this argument will also yield a general formula for the electric and magnetic fields in one frame in terms of the fields in another frame. In reality, the frames are not related by a Galilean transformation, but by a Lorentz transformation. Nevertheless, it will be a Galilean transformation to a very good approximation, at velocities much less than the speed of light. Unprimed quantities correspond to the rest frame of the magnet, while primed quantities correspond to the rest frame of the conductor. Let v be the velocity of the conductor, as seen from the magnet frame. Magnet frame

In the rest frame of the magnet, the magnetic field is some fixed field B(r), determined by the structure and shape of the magnet. The electric field is zero. In general, the force exerted upon a particle of charge q in the conductor by the electric field and magnetic field is given by (SI units):

where  is the charge on the particle,  is the particle velocity and F is the Lorentz force. Here, however, the electric field is zero, so the force on the particle is

Conductor frame

In the conductor frame, there is a time-varying magnetic field B' related to the magnetic field B in the magnet frame according to:

 where 

In this frame, there is an electric field, and its curl is given by the Maxwell-Faraday equation:

This miraculously results in:

To make this explicable: if a conductor moves through a B-field with a gradient , along the z-axis with constant velocity , it follows that in the frame of the conductor . It can be seen that this equation is consistent with , by determining  and  from this expression and substituting it in the first expression while using that . Even in the limit of infinitesimal small gradients  these relations hold, and therefore the Lorentz force equation is also valid if the magnetic field in the conductor frame is not varying in time. At relativistic velocities a correction factor is needed, see below and Classical electromagnetism and special relativity and Lorentz transformation. A charge q in the conductor will be at rest in the conductor frame. Therefore, the magnetic force term of the Lorentz force has no effect, and the force on the charge is given by

This demonstrates that the force is the same in both frames (as would be expected), and therefore any observable consequences of this force, such as the induced current, would also be the same in both frames. This is despite the fact that the force is seen to be an electric force in the conductor frame, but a magnetic force in the magnet's frame. Galilean transformation formula for fields

A similar sort of argument can be made if the magnet's frame also contains electric fields. (The Ampere-Maxwell equation also comes into play, explaining how, in the conductor's frame, this moving electric field will contribute to the magnetic field.) The end result is that, in general,

with c the speed of light in free space. By plugging these transformation rules into the full Maxwell's equations, it can be seen that if Maxwell's equations are true in one frame, then they are almost true in the other, but contain incorrect terms pro by the Lorentz transformation, and the field transformation equations also must be changed, according to the expressions given below. Transformation of fields as predicted by Maxwell's equations

In a frame moving at velocity v, the E-field in the moving frame when there is no E-field in the stationary magnet frame Maxwell's equations transform as:

where

is called the Lorentz factor and c is the speed of light in free space. This result is a consequence of requiring that observers in all inertial frames arrive at the same form for Maxwell's equations. In particular, all observers must see the same speed of light c. That requirement leads to the Lorentz transformation for space and time. Assuming a Lorentz transformation, invariance of Maxwell's equations then leads to the above transformation of the fields for this example. Consequently, the force on the charge is

This expression differs from the expression obtained from the nonrelativistic Newton's law of motion by a factor of . Special relativity modifies space and time in a manner such that the forces and fields transform consistently. Modification of dynamics for consistency with Maxwell's equations

The Lorentz force has the same form in both frames, though the fields differ, namely:

 
See Figure 1. To simplify, let the magnetic field point in the z-direction and vary with location x, and let the conductor translate in the positive x-direction with velocity v.