[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS neurology | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS neurology]

2. Handb Clin Neurol. 2019;163:73-92. doi: 10.1016/B978-0-12-804281-6.00005-7.

Transcranial magnetic stimulation: Neurophysiological and clinical applications.

Burke MJ(1), Fried PJ(1), Pascual-Leone A(2).

Author information:
(1)Berenson-Allen Center for Noninvasive Brain Stimulation and Division of 
Cognitive Neurology, Department of Neurology, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical 
Center, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, United States.
(2)Berenson-Allen Center for Noninvasive Brain Stimulation and Division of 
Cognitive Neurology, Department of Neurology, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical 
Center, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, United States; Guttmann Brain Health 
Institute, Institut Guttmann de Neurorehabilitacio, Universitat Autonoma de 
Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain; Marcus Institute for Aging Research, Hebrew Senior 
Life, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, United States. Electronic address: 
apleone@bidmc.harvard.edu.

Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) is a safe and noninvasive means of 
electrically stimulating the brain by electromagnetic induction. TMS is capable 
of probing intracortical circuits and modulating cortical activity in humans; as 
such it has been instrumental to studying the neurophysiology and functional 
neuroanatomy of the frontal lobes. For example, using TMS to induce "virtual 
lesions"-transient disruption of function in the targeted brain region-has 
yielded important insights into the functional organization of the prefrontal 
cortex (PFC) with respect to working memory, language, and other core cognitive 
functions. Whereas neuroimaging is typically limited to observing correlations 
between brain function and behavior, TMS, by interacting with neural circuits, 
can lead to causal inferences that bridge human, nonhuman primate, and other 
model system studies. Applied repetitively in trains of stimuli, TMS is also 
capable of normalizing aberrant patterns of cortical activity in the treatment 
of neurologic and psychiatric disorders. The earliest and most well-established 
clinical use of repetitive TMS is in the treatment of medication-resistant 
depression with high-frequency stimulation of the left dorsolateral PFC. 
Research efforts to identify other promising clinical applications-such as for 
stroke and Alzheimer's disease-are rapidly expanding; however, the majority of 
these indications have yet to have devices cleared by the FDA for on-label use.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/B978-0-12-804281-6.00005-7
PMID: 31590749 [Indexed for MEDLINE]