[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS neurology | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS neurology]

64. Neuropsychopharmacol Rep. 2021 Dec;41(4):538-543. doi: 10.1002/npr2.12212.
Epub  2021 Oct 22.

Transcranial magnetic stimulation modalities for psychiatric disorders: 
Publication trends from 1985 to 2019.

Matsuda Y(1), Yamazaki R(1), Shigeta M(1), Kito S(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, The Jikei University School of Medicine, Tokyo, 
Japan.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, National Center Hospital, National Center of 
Neurology and Psychiatry, Kodaira, Japan.

AIM: Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) is a noninvasive brain stimulation 
technique that shows potential for treating psychiatric disorders. Although 
several studies have sought to investigate new TMS modalities for the treatment 
of various psychiatric disorders, no study has yet examined publication trends 
in research on TMS modalities for psychiatric disorders. This study investigated 
publication trends in TMS research for 13 psychiatric disorders, including 
addiction, dementia, major depressive disorder (MDD), and obsessive-compulsive 
disorder (OCD), and schizophrenia, as well as 9 TMS modalities, including 
bilateral stimulation, deep TMS, high-frequency stimulation, low-frequency 
stimulation, and theta burst stimulation.
METHODS: Articles published in PubMed from 1985 to 2019 were searched to 
determine the number of published articles for each year in each category using 
the "Results by year" tool from the PubMed database.
RESULTS: Over the past 30 years, an increasing number of articles were published 
regarding TMS research for the treatment of MDD, addiction, and dementia, which 
were among those most commonly investigated psychiatric disorders, whereas the 
number of articles addressing schizophrenia and OCD treated via TMS remained 
steady since 2015. Regarding TMS modalities, previous high-frequency 
stimulation, low-frequency stimulation, and bilateral stimulation were the most 
common topics, with research regarding deep TMS and theta burst stimulation 
having increased since 2000 and 2005, respectively.
CONCLUSION: TMS applications are rapidly developing and becoming increasingly 
ubiquitous in various psychiatric disorders. Determining publication trends in 
TMS research can be a useful method for monitoring TMS research interests and 
applications of new TMS modalities for psychiatric disorders.

© 2021 The Authors. Neuropsychopharmacology Reports published by John Wiley & 
Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of the Japanese Society of 
Neuropsychopharmacology.

DOI: 10.1002/npr2.12212
PMCID: PMC8698680
PMID: 34677003 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: SK reports research grants, speaking fees, or 
advisory board work with Century Medical, Inter‐Riha, and Teijin Pharma. RY 
reports personal fee from Inter‐Riha, outside the submitted work. The other 
authors have no financial disclosures or conflicts of interest to report.