[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: natural product antibiotic drug discovery | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: natural product antibiotic drug discovery]

89. Acc Chem Res. 2016 Nov 15;49(11):2489-2500. doi:
10.1021/acs.accounts.6b00403.  Epub 2016 Oct 18.

Multicomponent Hetero-[4 + 2] Cycloaddition/Allylboration Reaction: From Natural 
Product Synthesis to Drug Discovery.

Hall DG(1), Rybak T(1), Verdelet T(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, University of Alberta , 4-010 Centennial Centre for 
Interdisciplinary Science, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada , T6G 2G2.

Multicomponent reactions (MCR), transformations employing three or more simple 
substrates in a single and highly atom-economical operation, are very attractive 
in both natural product synthesis and diversity-oriented synthesis of druglike 
molecules. Several popular multicomponent reactions were designed by combining 
two well-established individual reactions that utilize mutually compatible 
substrates. In this regard, it is not surprising that the merging of two 
reactions deemed as workhorses of stereoselective synthesis, the Diels-Alder 
cycloaddition and carbonyl allylboration, would produce a powerful and highly 
versatile tandem MCR process. The idea of using 1,3-dienylboronates in [4 + 2] 
cycloadditions as a means to produce cyclic allylic boronates was first reported 
by Vaultier and Hoffmann in 1987. In their seminal study, a 1-boronodiene was 
reacted with electron-poor alkenes, and the intermediate cycloadducts were 
isolated and added to aldehydes in a separate step leading to α-hydroxyalkylated 
carbocycles via a highly diastereoselective allylboration reaction. The one-pot 
three-component variant was realized in 1999 by Lallemand and co-workers, and 
soon after groups led by Hall and Carboni reported heterocyclic variants of the 
tandem [4 + 2] cycloaddition/allylboration to prepare α-hydroxyalkylated 
piperidine and pyran containing compounds, respectively. These classes of 
heterocycles are ubiquitous in Nature and are important components of 
pharmaceuticals. This Account summarizes the development and evolution of this 
powerful multicomponent reaction for accessing nonaromatic heterocycles and its 
many applications in natural products synthesis and drug discovery. The aza[4 + 
2]cycloaddition/allylboration MCR was first optimized in our laboratory using 
4-boronylhydrazonobutadienes and N-substituted maleimides, and it was exploited 
in the preparation of combinatorial libraries of polysubstituted 
imidopiperidines that feature as many as four elements of chemical diversity. 
Biological screening of these druglike imidopiperidine libraries unveiled 
promising bioactive agents such as A12B4C3, the first reported inhibitor of the 
human DNA repair enzyme, polynucleotide kinase-phosphatase (hPNKP). Related 
applications of this MCR in target-oriented synthesis also led to total 
syntheses of palustrine alkaloids. The inverse electron-demand oxa[4 + 2] 
cycloaddition/allyboration variant can take advantage of Jacobsen's chiral 
Cr(III)salen catalyst, affording a rare example of catalytic enantioselective 
MCR, one that provides a rapid access to α-hydroxyalkyl dihydropyrans in high 
enantio- and diastereoselectivity. This process exploits 3-boronoacrolein 
pinacolate as the heterodiene with ethyl vinyl ether or various 2-substituted 
enol ethers, along with a wide variety of aldehydes in the allylation stage. 
This versatile methodology was deployed in total syntheses of thiomarinol 
antibiotics, goniodiol and its derivatives, and the complex anticancer macrolide 
palmerolide A. More recent work from our laboratory centered on the regio- and 
stereoselective Suzuki-Miyaura cross-coupling of the dihydropyranyl boronates, 
thus providing a glimpse of the potential for new multicomponent variants that 
merge hetero[4 + 2] cycloadditions of 1-borylated heterodienes with transition 
metal-catalyzed transformations. This stereoselective MCR strategy holds great 
promise for provoking continuing applications in complex molecule synthesis and 
drug discovery, and is likely to inspire new and innovative MCR-based approaches 
to nonaromatic heterocycles.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.accounts.6b00403
PMID: 27753496 [Indexed for MEDLINE]