[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Propulsion Mechanics | Topic: Scramjet programs | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Scramjet programs — Overview

warhead that is being developed by DARPA and uses its own kinetic energy upon impact to destroy the target. It was first successfully tested in September 2021. Another successful test was carried out in mid-March 2022 amid the Russian invasion of Ukraine but further details were kept secret to avoid escalating tensions with Russia only to be leaked by an unnamed Pentagon official in early April. The missile was successfully launched from a B-52 strategic bomber off the west coast and flew above 65,000 feet for more than 300 miles (483 km). Follow-on tactical range Hypersonic Attack Cruise Missile (HACM) will be built by Raytheon Technologies and will use a Northrop Grumman scramjet. Mayhem
Leidos was awarded a contract to develop the unmanned scramjet-powered Mayhem (Expendable Hypersonic Multi-mission ISR (intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance) and Strike program) hypersonic technology demonstrator, in December 2022. Australia

HyShot
On July 30, 2002, the University of Queensland's HyShot team (and international partners) conducted the first-ever successful test flight of a scramjet. The team took a unique approach to the problem of accelerating the engine to the necessary speed by using a Terrier-Orion sounding rocket to take the aircraft up on a parabolic trajectory to an altitude of 314 km. As the craft re-entered the atmosphere, it dropped to a speed of Mach 7.6. The scramjet engine then started, and it flew at about Mach 7.6 for 6 seconds. . This was achieved on a lean budget of just A$1.5 million (US$1.1 million), a tiny fraction of NASA's US$250 million to develop the X-43A. This involved many of the same researchers involved in the University of Queensland report in 1995 of the first development of a scramjet that achieved more thrust than drag. On Saturday, March 25, 2006, researchers at the University of Queensland conducted another successful test flight of a HyShot Scramjet at the Woomera Test Range in South Australia. The Hyshot III with its £1,200,000 engine made an apparently successful flight (and planned crash landing) reaching in the order of 7.6 Mach. NASA has partially explained the tremendous difference in cost between the two projects by pointing out that the American vehicle has an engine fully incorporated into an airframe with a full complement of flight control surfaces available. In the second HyShot mission, no net thrust was achieved. (The thrust was less than the drag.)

The HyShot program currently consists of the following tests:
HyShot 1 - UQ 2-D scramjet. Failed launch due to rocket fin puncture by a rock on the landing pad. HyShot 2 - UQ 2-D scramjet. Successful, July 30, 2002
HyShot 3-7 - NASA tests. Cancelled after announcement of manned Mars mission. HyShot 8 (Now known as HyShot III) - QinetiQ 4-chamber scramjet. Successful, March 25, 2006. HyShot 9 (Now known as HyShot IV) - UQ 2D scramjet with JAXA hypermixer. Successful, March 30, 2006. HyShot 10 - HyCAUSE - DSTO scramjet. Successful June 15, 2007. Sponsorship for the HyShot Flight Program was obtained from the University of Queensland, Astrotech Space Operations, Defence Evaluation and Research Agency (DERA (now Qinetiq), UK), National Aeronautics and Space Agency (NASA, USA), Defence, Science and Technology Organisation (DSTO, Australia), Dept. of Defence (Australia), Dept. of Industry Science and Resources (Australia), the German Aerospace Centre (DLR, Germany), Seoul National University (Korea), the Australian Research Council, Australian Space Research Institute (ASRI), Alesi Technologies (Australia), National Aerospace Laboratories (NAL, Japan), NQEA (Australia), Australian Research and Development Unit (ARDU, Australia), the Air Force Office of Scientific Research (AFOSR, USA) and Luxfer, Australia. HIFiRE

Hypersonic International Flight Research and Experimentation (HIFiRE) is a joint program of the US Department of Defense and Australian DST Group. The "purpose of this program is to investigate fundamental hypersonic phenomena and accelerate the development of aerospace vehicle technologies deemed critical to long range precision strike" by using an "affordable, accessible, prototype experimentation strategy". HIFiRE 0 May 7, 2009 - First HIFiRE hypersonic test flight 
HIFiRE 1 March 22, 2010 - Axisymmetric conical boundary layer transition 
HIFiRE 2 May 1, 2012 - Accelerating velocity profile of an hydrocarbon-fueled axisymmetric scramjet 
HIFiRE 3 Sept 13, 2012 - Radical farming  of an hydrogen-fueled axisymmetric scramjet 
HIFiRE 4 June 30, 2017 - Aerodynamic performance of a hypersonic waverider
HIFiRE 5 April 23, 2012 - Elliptical forebody boundary layer transition (failed because reaching only Mach 3)
HIFiRE 5b May 18, 2016 - Elliptical forebody boundary layer transition
HiFIRE 6 Cancelled ? - Adaptive flight control of an hypersonic vehicle 
HIFiRE 7 March 30, 2015 - Free flight of an hydrocarbon fueled scramjet with REST inlet
HIFiRE 8 Cancelled ? - Sustained flight of an hypersonic vehicle integrating an hydrocarbon fueled scramjet with REST inlet

In 2012 the HIFiRE program was recognized with the prestigious von Karman Award by the International Congress of the Aeronautical Sciences.