[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: natural product antibiotic drug discovery | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: natural product antibiotic drug discovery]

50. Adv Microb Physiol. 2023;83:309-349. doi: 10.1016/bs.ampbs.2023.05.001. Epub 
2023 May 18.

On the evolution of natural product biosynthesis.

Barona-Gómez F(1), Chevrette MG(2), Hoskisson PA(3).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Biology, Leiden University. Sylviusweg 72, Leiden, The 
Netherlands.
(2)Department of Microbiology and Cell Sciences, University of Florida, Museum 
Drive, Gainesville, FL, United States; University of Florida Genetics Institute, 
University of Florida, Mowry Road, Gainesville, FL, United States.
(3)Strathclyde Institute of Pharmacy and Biomedical Sciences, University of 
Strathclyde, Cathedral Street, Glasgow, United Kingdom. Electronic address: 
paul.hoskisson@strath.ac.uk.

Natural products are the raw material for drug discovery programmes. Bioactive 
natural products are used extensively in medicine and agriculture and have found 
utility as antibiotics, immunosuppressives, anti-cancer drugs and 
anthelminthics. Remarkably, the natural role and what mechanisms drive evolution 
of these molecules is relatively poorly understood. The exponential increase in 
genome and chemical data in recent years, coupled with technical advances in 
bioinformatics and genetics have enabled progress to be made in understanding 
the evolution of biosynthetic gene clusters and the products of their enzymatic 
machinery. Here we discuss the diversity of natural products, incorporating the 
mechanisms that govern evolution of metabolic pathways and how this can be 
applied to biosynthetic gene clusters. We build on the nomenclature of natural 
products in terms of primary, integrated, secondary and specialised metabolism 
and place this within an ecology-evolutionary-developmental biology framework. 
This eco-evo-devo framework we believe will help to clarify the nature and use 
of the term specialised metabolites in the future.

Copyright © 2023. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/bs.ampbs.2023.05.001
PMID: 37507161 [Indexed for MEDLINE]