[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: plant alkaloid biosynthesis pathway elucidation | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: plant alkaloid biosynthesis pathway elucidation]

75. J Biol Chem. 2025 Jul;301(7):110319. doi: 10.1016/j.jbc.2025.110319. Epub
2025  May 31.

Complete biosynthesis of the fungal alkaloid zinnimidine: Biochemical insights 
into the isoindolinone core formation.

Luo L(1), Li D(1), Long B(1), Huang X(2), Wan Y(1), Long H(3), Wang W(1), Li 
J(4), Xu K(1), Tan G(5), Yu X(6).

Author information:
(1)Xiangya School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Central South University, 
Changsha, Hunan, People's Republic of China; Hunan Key Laboratory of Diagnostic 
and Therapeutic Drug Research for Chronic Diseases, Central South University, 
Changsha, People's Republic of China.
(2)Pharmacy Department, Jiujiang City Key Laboratory of Cell Therapy, JiuJiang 
NO.1 People's Hospital, Jiujiang, Jingxi, People's Republic of China.
(3)Center for Medical Research and Innovation, The First Hospital of Hunan 
University of Chinese Medicine, Changsha, Hunan, People's Republic of China.
(4)Xiangya Hospital of Central South University, Central South University, 
Changsha, Hunan, People's Republic of China.
(5)Xiangya School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Central South University, 
Changsha, Hunan, People's Republic of China; Xiangya Hospital of Central South 
University, Central South University, Changsha, Hunan, People's Republic of 
China.
(6)Xiangya School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Central South University, 
Changsha, Hunan, People's Republic of China; Hunan Key Laboratory of Diagnostic 
and Therapeutic Drug Research for Chronic Diseases, Central South University, 
Changsha, People's Republic of China. Electronic address: xyu226@csu.edu.cn.

Isoindolinone scaffold is widely presented in bioactive natural products and 
serves as a fundamental structure in pharmaceutical compounds. However, the key 
step of the isoindolinone core formation is not well-defined. In this study, we 
elucidated the complete biosynthetic pathway of the phytotoxic isoindolinone 
alkaloid zinnimidine, which was isolated from the cultures of various 
phytopathogenic fungi of the genus Alternaria. This was achieved through a 
systematic approach that integrated heterologous expression, feeding 
experiments, and enzymatic characterizations. Enzymes ZinADEF were identified as 
key catalysts involved in the biosynthesis of isoindolinone scaffold, directing 
the transformation from the 2-methyl benzoic acid-like tetraketide precursor to 
form the isoindolinone scaffold, while ZinB and ZinE catalyzes methylation and 
prenylation modification, respectively. Detailed enzymatic studies of the 
flavin-dependent oxidoreductase ZinD uncovered the key catalytic processes 
underlying the conversion from 1,2-benzenediol to the isoindolinone core, 
accompanied by the generation of hydrogen peroxide. Through enzymatic reactions 
of ZinD with various amino-containing compounds, porritoxin and several novel 
isoindolinones were synthesized. The analysis utilizing cblaster highlighted the 
conservation of ZinADEF genes across different fungi, indicating the existence 
of common biosynthetic pathways and mechanisms among these fungal species. 
Additionally, our study explained the late-stage biosynthetic branch details of 
isoindolinone and isobenzofuranone natural products. Our research unveils the 
biosynthetic mechanism of fungal isoindolinones, providing a theoretical 
foundation for the biocontrol of phytotoxins such as zinnimidine, and 
establishes a foundation for the biosynthesis of isoindolinone alkaloid 
derivatives.

Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jbc.2025.110319
PMCID: PMC12268544
PMID: 40451433 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest The authors declare that 
they have no conflicts of interest with the contents of this article.