[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: crystal structure protein drug target binding | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: crystal structure protein drug target binding]

73. J Virol. 2017 Aug 24;91(18):e00996-17. doi: 10.1128/JVI.00996-17. Print 2017
Sep  15.

Crystal Structure of the Marburg Virus Nucleoprotein Core Domain Chaperoned by a 
VP35 Peptide Reveals a Conserved Drug Target for Filovirus.

Zhu T(1)(2), Song H(1)(2), Peng R(2)(3), Shi Y(2)(3)(4)(5), Qi J(6)(3), Gao 
GF(7)(2)(3)(4)(5)(8)(9).

Author information:
(1)Research Network of Immunity and Health (RNIH), Beijing Institutes of Life 
Science, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, China.
(2)University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, China.
(3)CAS Key Laboratory of Pathogenic Microbiology and Immunology, Institute of 
Microbiology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, China.
(4)Center for Influenza Research and Early-Warning (CASCIRE), Chinese Academy of 
Sciences, Beijing, China.
(5)Shenzhen Key Laboratory of Pathogen and Immunity, Shenzhen Third People's 
Hospital, Shenzhen, China.
(6)University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, China jxqi@im.ac.cn 
gaof@im.ac.cn.
(7)Research Network of Immunity and Health (RNIH), Beijing Institutes of Life 
Science, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, China jxqi@im.ac.cn 
gaof@im.ac.cn.
(8)Collaborative Innovation Center for Diagnosis and Treatment of Infectious 
Diseases, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, China.
(9)National Institute for Viral Disease Control and Prevention, Chinese Center 
for Disease Control and Prevention (China CDC), Beijing, China.

Filovirus nucleoprotein (NP), viral protein 35 (VP35), and polymerase L are 
essential for viral replication and nucleocapsid formation. Here, we identify a 
28-residue peptide (NP binding peptide [NPBP]) from Marburg virus (MARV) VP35 
through sequence alignment with previously identified Ebola virus (EBOV) NPBP, 
which bound to the core region (residues 18 to 344) of the N-terminal portion of 
MARV NP with high affinity. The crystal structure of the MARV NP core/NPBP 
complex at a resolution of 2.6 Å revealed that NPBP binds to the C-terminal 
region of the NP core via electrostatic and nonpolar interactions. Further 
structural analysis revealed that the MARV and EBOV NP cores hold a conserved 
binding pocket for NPBP, and this pocket could serve as a promising target for 
the design of universal drugs against filovirus infection. In addition, 
cross-binding assays confirmed that the NP core of MARV or EBOV can bind the 
NPBP from the other virus, although with moderately reduced binding affinities 
that result from termini that are distinct between the MARV and EBOV 
NPBPs.IMPORTANCE Historically, Marburg virus (MARV) has caused severe disease 
with up to 90% lethality. Among the viral proteins produced by MARV, NP and VP35 
are both multifunctional proteins that are essential for viral replication. In 
its relative, Ebola virus (EBOV), an N-terminal peptide from VP35 binds to the 
NP N-terminal region with high affinity. Whether this is a common mechanism 
among filoviruses is an unsolved question. Here, we present the crystal 
structure of a complex that consists of the core domain of MARV NP and the NPBP 
peptide from VP35. As we compared MARV NPBP with EBOV NPBP, several different 
features at the termini were identified. Although these differences reduce the 
affinity of the NP core for NPBPs across genera, a conserved pocket in the 
C-terminal region of the NP core makes cross-species binding possible. Our 
results expand our knowledge of filovirus NP-VP35 interactions and provide more 
details for therapeutic intervention.

Copyright © 2017 American Society for Microbiology.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.00996-17
PMCID: PMC5571254
PMID: 28659479 [Indexed for MEDLINE]