[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: phytotherapy systematic review clinical evidence | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: phytotherapy systematic review clinical evidence]

56. Eur J Med Res. 2003 Mar 27;8(3):109-19.

Mistletoe in cancer - a systematic review on controlled clinical trials.

Kienle GS(1), Berrino F, Büssing A, Portalupi E, Rosenzweig S, Kiene H.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Applied Epistemology and Medical Methodology, Bad 
Krozingen/Freiburg, Germany. Gunver.Kienle@ifaemm.de

BACKGROUND: Mistletoe preparations are among the most widely used unconventional 
cancer therapies in Central Europe. Their clinical effectiveness, however, is 
controversial.
OBJECTIVE: To investigate whether prospective controlled clinical trials provide 
evidence for efficacy of mistletoe therapy in cancer.
DESIGN: Systematic review.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Search of 11 electronic databases, reference lists and 
expert consultations. Criteria based analysis was performed to assess 
methodological quality of the studies.
RESULTS: Twenty-three studies were identified: 16 randomized, 2 quasi-randomized 
and 5 non-randomized. Cancer sites included breast, lung, stomach, colon, 
rectum, head and neck, kidney, bladder, melanoma, glioma, and genital. Among 
these studies, statistically significant positive outcomes were reported for 
survival (n = 8), tumor remission (n = 1), overall quality of life (QOL) (n = 
3), and QOL in relation to side effects during cytoreductive therapy (n = 3). 
Further, positive trends were reported for survival (n = 8), 
disease-free-survival (n = 1), and tumor remission (n = 2). Several studies 
reported no effect on survival (n = 4), disease-free-survival (n = 1), 
recurrence (n = 2), remission (n = 3), and QOL (n = 1). One study showed a 
negative trend for disease-free-survival. However, methodological quality of the 
studies was sometimes far below the standard that is today regarded as optimal 
or necessary. In view of substantial heterogeneity of the studies and potential 
positive and negative biases, we considered effect size estimation by 
quantitative synthesis to be unreliable and decided on a non-quantitative 
synthesis and discussion. Mistletoe therapy was well tolerated, and no major 
side effects were noted.
CONCLUSIONS: Among 23 identified studies evaluated for clinically relevant 
outcome measures, 12 studies showed one or more statistically significant, 
positive results, another 7 studies showed at least one positive trend, 3 showed 
no effect and 1 had a negative trend. All studies, however, suffered from 
methodological shortcomings to some degree, and many of the studies are not 
conclusive. As several reasonably well conducted studies indicate beneficial 
effects, further properly designed trials should be encouraged. Future 
controlled studies should take into account the methodological limitations and 
potential biases of these past mistletoe trials.

PMID: 12730032 [Indexed for MEDLINE]