[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: crystal structure protein drug target binding | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: crystal structure protein drug target binding]

68. IUBMB Life. 2011 Jan;63(1):30-41. doi: 10.1002/iub.412. Epub 2011 Jan 13.

Effect of substrate binding loop mutations on the structure, kinetics, and 
inhibition of enoyl acyl carrier protein reductase from Plasmodium falciparum.

Maity K(1), Banerjee T, Prabakaran N, Surolia N, Surolia A, Suguna K.

Author information:
(1)Molecular Biophysics Unit, Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore, India.

Enoyl acyl carrier protein reductase (ENR), which catalyzes the final and rate 
limiting step of fatty acid elongation, has been validated as a potential drug 
target. Triclosan is known to be an effective inhibitor for this enzyme. We 
mutated the substrate binding site residue Ala372 of the ENR of Plasmodium 
falciparum (PfENR) to Methionine and Valine which increased the affinity of the 
enzyme towards triclosan to almost double, close to that of Escherichia coli ENR 
(EcENR) which has a Methionine at the structurally similar position of Ala372 of 
PfENR. Kinetic studies of the mutants of PfENR and the crystal structure 
analysis of the A372M mutant revealed that a more hydrophobic environment 
enhances the affinity of the enzyme for the inhibitor. A triclosan derivative 
showed a threefold increase in the affinity towards the mutants compared to the 
wild type, due to additional interactions with the A372M mutant as revealed by 
the crystal structure. The enzyme has a conserved salt bridge which stabilizes 
the substrate binding loop and appears to be important for the active 
conformation of the enzyme. We generated a second set of mutants to check this 
hypothesis. These mutants showed loss of function, except in one case, where the 
crystal structure showed that the substrate binding loop is stabilized by a 
water bridge network.

Copyright © 2011 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/iub.412
PMID: 21280175 [Indexed for MEDLINE]