[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: Ultrafast laser spectroscopy | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Ultrafast laser spectroscopy — Overview

It will not change the duration or phase of the pulse during the amplification. Pulse compression (shorten the pulse duration) is achieved by first chirping the pulse in a nonlinear material and broadening the spectrum, with the following compressor for chirp compensation. A fiber compressor is generally used in this case. Pulse shapers usually refer to optical modulators which apply Fourier transforms to a laser beam. Depending on which property of light is controlled, modulators are called intensity modulators, phase modulators, polarization modulators, spatial light modulators. Depending on the modulation mechanism, optical modulators are divided into Acoustic-optic modulators, Electro-optic modulators, Liquid crystal modulators, etc. Each is dedicated to different applications. High harmonic generation
High harmonic generation (HHG) is the nonlinear process where intense laser radiation is converted from one fixed frequency to high harmonics of that frequency by ionization and recollision of an electron. It was first observed in 1987 by McPherson et al. who successfully generated harmonic emission up to the 17th order at 248 nm in neon gas. HHG is seen by focusing an ultra-fast, high-intensity, near-IR pulse into a noble gas at intensities of (1013–1014 W/cm2) and it generates coherent pulses in the XUV to Soft X-ray (100–1 nm) region of the spectrum. It is realizable on a laboratory scale (table-top systems) as opposed to large free electron-laser facilities. High harmonic generation in atoms is well understood in terms of the three-step model (ionization, propagation, and recombination). Ionization: The intense laser field modifies the Coulomb potential of the atom, electron tunnels through the barrier and ionize. Propagation: The free-electron accelerates in the laser field and gains momentum. Recombination: When the field reverses, the electron is accelerated back toward the ionic parent and releases a photon with very high energy. Frequency conversion techniques
Different spectroscopy experiments require different excitation or probe wavelengths. For this reason, frequency conversion techniques are commonly used to extend the operational spectrum of existing laser light sources. The most widespread conversion techniques rely on using crystals with second-order non-linearity to perform either parametric amplification or frequency mixing. Frequency mixing works by superimposing two beams of equal or different wavelengths to generate a signal which is a higher harmonic or the sum frequency of the first two. Parametric amplification overlaps a weak probe beam with a higher energy pump beam in a non-linear crystal such that the weak beam gets amplified and the remaining energy goes out as a new beam called the idler. This approach has the capability of generating output pulses that are shorter than the input ones. Different schemes of this approach have been implemented. Examples are optical parametric oscillator (OPO), optical parametric amplifier (OPA), non-collinear parametric amplifier (NOPA). Techniques

Ultrafast transient absorption
This method is typical of 'pump-probe' experiments, where a pulsed laser is used to excite the electrons in a material (such as a molecule or semiconducting solid) from their ground states to higher-energy excited states. A probing light source, typically a xenon arc lamp or broadband laser pulse created by supercontinuum generation, is used to obtain an absorption spectrum of the compound at various times following its excitation. As the excited molecules absorb the probe light, they are further excited to even higher states or induced to return to the ground state radiatively through stimulated emission. After passing through the sample, the unabsorbed probe light continues to a photodetector such as an avalanche photodiode array or CMOS camera, and the data is processed to generate an absorption spectrum of the excited state. Since all the molecules or excitation sites in the sample will not undergo the same dynamics simultaneously, this experiment must be carried out many times (where each "experiment" comes from a single pair of pump and probe laser pulse interactions), and the data must be averaged to generate spectra with accurate intensities and peaks. Because photobleaching and other photochemical or photothermal reactions can happen to the samples, this method requires evaluating these effects by measuring the same sample at the same location many times at different pump and probe intensities. Most time the liquid samples are stirred during measurement making relatively long-time kinetics difficult to measure due to flow and diffusion. Unlike time-correlated single photon counting (TCSPC), this technique can be carried out on non-fluorescent samples. It can also be performed on non-transmissive samples in a reflection geometry. Ultrafast transient absorption can use almost any probe light, so long as the probe is of a pertinent wavelength or set of wavelengths.