[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS neurology | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS neurology]

12. J Psychiatr Res. 2024 May;173:34-40. doi: 10.1016/j.jpsychires.2024.02.057.
Epub  2024 Mar 8.

A meta-analysis of transcranial magnetic stimulation in Tourette syndrome.

Steuber ER(1), McGuire JF(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Boston Children's Hospital, Boston, MA, USA; 
Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Johns Hopkins University 
School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA.
(2)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Johns Hopkins University 
School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA. Electronic address: jfmcguire@jhmi.edu.

There is growing enthusiasm for the treatment of neuropsychiatric disorders 
using neuromodulation. While some reports claim that transcranial magnetic 
stimulation (TMS) can be used to treat Tourette Syndrome (TS), little research 
exists to support this assertion. This meta-analysis examined the efficacy of 
TMS to reduce tic severity in patients with TS. Additionally, it explored the 
effect of TMS to reduce premonitory urge severity-the primary mechanism 
implicated in the frontline evidence-based treatment of TS. Five treatment 
comparisons were selected using PRISMA guidelines. All studies included were 
required to be (1) a randomized controlled trial, (2) compare TMS to a sham 
condition, and (3) have all participants meet diagnostic criteria for a 
persistent tic disorder and/or TS. A random effects model meta-analysis examined 
the efficacy of using TMS to reduce tic severity and explored the effect of TMS 
to reduce premonitory urge severity. TMS did not significantly reduce tic 
severity (g = 0.44; 95% CI = -0.17, 1.05; z = 1.40; p = 0.16), but a moderate 
reduction in premonitory urge severity was found (g = 0.63; 95% CI = 0.9, 1.17; 
z = 2.27; p < 0.02). Trials with larger sample sizes and a preponderance of 
women were found to have greater therapeutic effects of TMS for tic severity. 
There is limited support for the use of TMS to reduce tic severity, though 
reductions in premonitory urge severity were observed. Major limitations of the 
existing literature are examined, with a call for research investigating newer 
TMS protocols and their use as a treatment augmentation strategy.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpsychires.2024.02.057
PMCID: PMC11018498
PMID: 38479346 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest Dr. Joseph 
McGuire reports receiving grant support from American Academy of Neurology, 
American Brain Foundation, American Psychological Foundation, Hilda and Preston 
Davis Foundation, Misophonia Research Fund, Tourette Association of America 
(TAA), and the National Institute of Health (NIH). Additionally, he serves on 
the Scientific Advisory Board of the TAA, and was a consultant to Syneos Health 
and Emalex. He receives book royalties from Elsevier, and honorarium from 
Springer Nature for his role as Associate Editor at two journals. Dr. Elizabeth 
Steuber has no other financial disclosures to report.