[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: herbal medicine drug interaction pharmacokinetics | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: herbal medicine drug interaction pharmacokinetics]

19. Molecules. 2017 Jun 22;22(7):1034. doi: 10.3390/molecules22071034.

Herb-Drug Interaction between the Traditional Hepatoprotective Formulation and 
Sorafenib on Hepatotoxicity, Histopathology and Pharmacokinetics in Rats.

Ting CT(1)(2), Cheng YY(3), Tsai TH(4)(5)(6)(7).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Traditional Medicine, School of Medicine, National Yang-Ming 
University, Taipei 112, Taiwan. DAB74@tpech.gov.tw.
(2)Division of Gastrointestinal Surgery, Department of Surgery, Ren-Ai Branch, 
Taipei City Hospital, Taipei 10629, Taiwan. DAB74@tpech.gov.tw.
(3)Institute of Traditional Medicine, School of Medicine, National Yang-Ming 
University, Taipei 112, Taiwan. vininecheng@gmail.com.
(4)Institute of Traditional Medicine, School of Medicine, National Yang-Ming 
University, Taipei 112, Taiwan. thtsai@ym.edu.tw.
(5)Graduate Institute of Acupuncture Science, China Medical University, Taichung 
40402, Taiwan. thtsai@ym.edu.tw.
(6)School of Pharmacy, College of Pharmacy, Kaohsiung Medical University, 
Kaohsiung 80708, Taiwan. thtsai@ym.edu.tw.
(7)Department of Chemical Engineering, National United University, Miaoli 36063, 
Taiwan. thtsai@ym.edu.tw.

Sorafenib has been used as a standard therapy for advanced hepatocellular 
carcinoma (HCC). In Asia, patients with HCC are potentially treated with the 
combination of sorafenib and Chinese herbal medicines to improve the efficiency 
and reduce the side effects of sorafenib. However, limited information about the 
herb-drug interactions is available. We hypothesize that the Chinese herbal 
medicine may exert hepatoprotective effects on the sorafenib-treated group. The 
aim of this study is to investigate the pharmacokinetic mechanism of drug-drug 
interactions of sorafenib including interacting with hepatoprotective 
formulation, Long-Dan-Xie-Gan-Tang formulation (LDXGT) and with two cytochrome 
P450 3A4 (CYP3A4) inhibitors, grapefruit juice and ketoconazole. Liver enzyme 
levels and histopathology of liver slices were used to evaluate 
sorafenib-induced hepatotoxicity and the potential hepatoprotective effects of 
the LDXGT formulation on subjects treated with the combination of sorafenib and 
the herbal medicine. In this study, a validated HPLC-photodiode array analytical 
system was developed for the pharmacokinetic study of sorafenib in rats. As the 
result of the pharmacokinetic data, pretreatment with the LDXGT formulation did 
not significantly interact with sorafenib compared with sorafenib oral 
administration alone. Furthermore, grapefruit juice and ketoconazole did not 
significantly affect sorafenib metabolism. Furthermore, pretreatment with 
variable, single or repeat doses of the LDXGT formulation did not suppress or 
exacerbate the sorafenib-induced hepatotoxicity and histopathological 
alterations. According to these results, the LDXGT formulation is safe, but has 
no beneficial effects on sorafenib-induced hepatotoxicity. A detailed clinical 
trial should be performed to further evaluate the efficacy or adverse effects of 
the LDXGT formulation in combination with sorafenib in humans.

DOI: 10.3390/molecules22071034
PMCID: PMC6152211
PMID: 28640225 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.