[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: Ceramic foam | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Ceramic foam — Overview

high strength and hardness also allows them to be used as structural materials for low stress applications. Electronics With easily controlled porosities and microstructures, ceramic foams have seen growing use in evolving electronics applications. These applications include electrodes, and scaffolds for solid oxide fuel cells and batteries. Foams can also be used as cooling components for electronics by separating a pumped coolant from the circuits themselves. For this application, silica, aluminum oxide, and aluminum borosilicate fibers can be used. Pollution Control 
Ceramic foams have been proposed as a means of pollutant control, particularly for particulate matter from engines. They are effective because the voids can capture particulates as well as support a catalyst that can induce oxidation of the captured particulates. Due to the easy means of deposition of other materials within ceramic foams, these oxidation-inducing catalysts can easily be distributed through the entire foam, increasing effectiveness. Filtering 
Ceramic foam filters (CFF) are used for the filtration of liquid metal. Passing liquid metal through the ceramic foam filter reduces impurities, including nonmetallic inclusions, in the liquid metal and the corresponding finished product (casting, sheet, billet, etc). It has found success in its application and use in continuous casting (sheet), semi-continuous casting (billet and slab), and casting gating systems in metal foundries. Wastewater Treatment 
Due to the foam’s unique pore structure and large specific surface area, it sees a use as a filter for wastewater. The filtration process is a combination of adsorption, surface filtration, and deep filtration with deep filtration providing a majority of the filtration process. Construction 
Close-cell ceramic foam serves as a good insulation material for walls and roofs. The large number of closed cells allow the material to be resistant to corrosion and absorb sound internally and externally. Buildings in China have utilized ceramic foam as a thermal insulation material. Noise Reduction 
Foam ceramics has its use in sound absorption in wet and oily environments. The sound waves vibrate in the pores of the foam and transform the energy into heat through friction and air resistance, thus reducing echos in the environment. Automobile  
Due to the three-dimensional connected mesh structure, high temperature resistance, and thermal stability of ceramic foam, its use in catalytic converters in exhaust systems help remove oxides and other particulate matter from exhaust gasses. Biomaterial 
Current research sees ceramic foams often formulated with Bioglass to create tissue scaffolds for bone repair Their porous characteristic shows promise in load-bearing bone tissue engineering applications. The bioglass allows the material to be bioactive and form hyaluronic acid on the surface of the material as biological fluid contacts with glass-ceramic foam. Glass-ceramic shows promise as its properties of having adequate porosity to allow cells to migrate through the scaffold, high mechanical strength to bear load, and good bioactivity to allow cells to flourish. References

Ceramic materials
Ceramic engineering