[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: MRI physics image quality artifact reduction | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: MRI physics image quality artifact reduction]

5. AJNR Am J Neuroradiol. 2025 Apr 2;46(4):733-741. doi: 10.3174/ajnr.A8566.

Leveraging Physics-Based Synthetic MR Images and Deep Transfer Learning for 
Artifact Reduction in Echo-Planar Imaging.

Raymond C(1)(2), Yao J(1)(2), Clifford B(3), Feiweier T(4), Oshima S(1)(2), 
Telesca D(5), Zhong X(2)(6), Meyer H(4), Everson RG(7), Salamon N(2), Cloughesy 
TF(8), Ellingson BM(9)(2)(10)(6).

Author information:
(1)From the UCLA Brain Tumor Imaging Laboratory (C.R., J.Y., S.O., B.M.E.), 
David Geffen School of Medicine, University of California Los Angeles, Los 
Angeles, CA.
(2)Department of Radiological Sciences (C.R., J.Y., S.O., X.Z., N.S., B.M.E), 
David Geffen School of Medicine, University of California Los Angeles, Los 
Angeles, CA.
(3)Siemens Medical Solutions USA, Inc. (B.C.), Los Angeles, CA.
(4)Siemens Healthineers AG (T.F., H.M.), Erlangen, Germany.
(5)Department of Biostatistics (D.T.), University of California, Los Angeles, 
Los Angeles, CA, USA.
(6)Department of Bioengineering (X.Z., B.M.E.), Henry Samueli School of 
Engineering and Applied Science, University of California, Los Angeles, Los 
Angeles, CA, USA.
(7)Department of Neurosurgery (R.G.E.), David Geffen School of Medicine, 
University of California Los Angeles, Los Angeles, CA.
(8)Department of Neurology (T.F.C.), David Geffen School of Medicine, University 
of California Los Angeles, Los Angeles, CA.
(9)From the UCLA Brain Tumor Imaging Laboratory (C.R., J.Y., S.O., B.M.E.), 
David Geffen School of Medicine, University of California Los Angeles, Los 
Angeles, CA bellingson@mednet.ucla.edu.
(10)Department of Psychiatry and Biobehavioral Sciences (B.M.E.), David Geffen 
School of Medicine, University of California Los Angeles, Los Angeles, CA.

BACKGOUND AND PURPOSE: This study utilizes a physics-based approach to 
synthesize realistic MR artifacts and train a deep learning generative 
adversarial network (GAN) for use in artifact reduction on EPI, a crucial 
neuroimaging sequence with high acceleration that is notoriously susceptible to 
artifacts.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A total of 4,573 anatomical MR sequences from 1,392 
patients undergoing clinically indicated MRI of the brain were used to create a 
synthetic data set using physics-based, simulated artifacts commonly found in 
EPI. By using multiple MRI contrasts, we hypothesized the GAN would learn to 
correct common artifacts while preserving the inherent contrast information, 
even for contrasts the network has not been trained on. A modified Pix2PixGAN 
architecture with an Attention-R2UNet generator was used for the model. Three 
training strategies were employed: (1) An "all-in-one" model trained on all the 
artifacts at once; (2) a set of "single models", one for each artifact; and a 
(3) "stacked transfer learning" approach where a model is first trained on one 
artifact set, then this learning is transferred to a new model and the process 
is repeated for the next artifact set. Lastly, the "Stacked Transfer Learning" 
model was tested on ADC maps from single-shot diffusion MRI data in N = 49 
patients diagnosed with recurrent glioblastoma to compare visual quality and 
lesion measurements between the natively acquired images and AI-corrected 
images.
RESULTS: The "stacked transfer learning" approach had superior artifact 
reduction performance compared to the other approaches as measured by Mean 
Squared Error (MSE = 0.0016), Structural Similarity Index (SSIM = 0.92), 
multiscale SSIM (MS-SSIM = 0.92), peak signal-to-noise ratio (PSNR = 28.10), and 
Hausdorff distance (HAUS = 4.08mm), suggesting that leveraging pre-trained 
knowledge and sequentially training on each artifact is the best approach this 
application. In recurrent glioblastoma, significantly higher visual quality was 
observed in model predicted images compared to native images, while quantitative 
measurements within the tumor regions remained consistent with non-corrected 
images.
CONCLUSIONS: The current study demonstrates the feasibility of using a 
physics-based method for synthesizing a large data set of images with realistic 
artifacts and the effectiveness of utilizing this synthetic data set in a 
"stacked transfer learning" approach to training a GAN for reduction of 
EPI-based artifacts.

© 2025 by American Journal of Neuroradiology.

DOI: 10.3174/ajnr.A8566
PMCID: PMC11979845
PMID: 39947682 [Indexed for MEDLINE]