[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: cannabis cannabidiol therapeutic epilepsy pain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: cannabis cannabidiol therapeutic epilepsy pain]

78. Curr Pharm Des. 2021;27(13):1564-1578. doi:
10.2174/1381612826666201202125807.

Medicinal Applications of Cannabinoids Extracted from Cannabis sativa (L.): A 
New Route in the Fight Against COVID-19?

Khalid S(1), Almalki FA(2), Hadda TB(2), Bader A(3), Abu-Izneid T(4), Berredjem 
M(5), Elsharkawy ER(6), Alqahtani AM(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Botany, Islamia College, Peshawar, Pakistan.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, Faculty of Pharmacy, Umm Al-Qura 
University, Makkah Almukkarramah, Saudi Arabia.
(3)Department of Pharmacognosy, Faculty of Pharmacy, Umm Al-Qura University, 
Makkah Almukkarramah, Saudi Arabia.
(4)Pharmaceutical Sciences, Collage of Pharmacy, Al Ain University, Al Ain, 
United Arab Emirates.
(5)Laboratory of Applied Organic Chemistry LCOA, Synthesis of Biomolecules and 
Molecular Modelling Group, Badji-Mokhtar - Annaba University, Box 12, 23000 
Annaba, Algeria.
(6)Chemistry Department, Faculty of Science, Northern Borders University, Arar, 
Saudi Arabia.
(7)Department of Pharmacology, College of Pharmacy, King Khalid University, 
Abha, 62529, Saudi Arabia.

Cannabis sativa is a well-known plant that has been recognized for its benefits 
since ancient times by several medicinal systems, including those of China, 
India, Greece, and Egypt. Although C. sativa is one of the most investigated 
medicinal plants in the world, it faces some of the greatest controversies 
surrounding its legalization and use as a medication. C. sativa contains several 
hundred phytoconstituents, including the infamous "cannabinoids". It is 
necessary to properly understand the medicinal importance of these 
phytochemicals and spread awareness among the countries where cannabis is still 
facing legal obstacles. The current review focuses on the most recent literature 
pertaining to various applications of cannabinoids, with a special focus on the 
medicinal aspect of these phytochemicals. Peer-reviewed articles focusing on the 
importance of cannabis and cannabinoids are the target of this review. Articles 
were selected based on the relevance to the general scope of the work, i.e., 
application of cannabinoids. Cannabinoids can truly be regarded as wonder drugs, 
considering their immense diversity of usage. Unfortunately, however, many of 
the mares have never been researched biologically or pharmacologically due to 
their low yield in the plant. However, the approval of some cannabinoids by the 
FDA (along with other recognized national medical health systems) has opened the 
horizon for the use of these natural drugs in medicines such as Epidiolex® 
(cannabidiol, used for the treatment of severe forms of epilepsy) and 
Sativex®(Δ9-tetrahydrocannabinol and cannabidiol, used for the treatment of 
spasticity caused by multiple sclerosis). Many pharmacological properties of C. 
sativa are attributed to cannabidiol (CBD), a non-psychoactive component, along 
with Δ9-tetrahydrocannabinol (Δ9-THC), a psychoactive component. This review 
addresses the most important applications or current utilization of cannabinoids 
in a variety of treatments such as chronic pain, cancer, emesis, anorexia, 
irritable bowel syndrome, communicable diseases, glaucoma, and central nervous 
system disorders. The biosynthetic pathway of cannabinoids is also discussed. In 
short, cannabis has a myriad of bioactive compounds that have the potential to 
increase the list of approved cannabinoids suitable for therapy.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/1381612826666201202125807
PMID: 33267756 [Indexed for MEDLINE]