[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Propulsion Mechanics | Topic: Flying Machines — W.J. Jackman (early aerodynamics) | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Flying Machines — W.J. Jackman (early aerodynamics) — Overview

or greater to condemne dissolute and lewd gestures: for as concerning dishonest and unmeete woordes, they be gathered or receaued with our eares onely, but as for villanous & dishonest gestures, they be so many obiects, or thinges set before our eyes, as if one shoulde set before us a painted table, in which all villany infection, and filthines should be liuely pourtraited and set out. [Sidenote: Mat. 5.]  Now that the sighte of
all our senses is it which hath most force & strength to make us
incline to uncleannes and filthynes, I will haue none other iudge but
our Lord himselfe, when he hath uttered and spoken with his mouth,
that hee which hath cast his eye uppon his neighbours wife, for to
couet, desyre, and with her is already a whoremonger in his hart:
[Sidenote: I John. 2.]  behold also wherefore S. John in his first
canonicall or generall epistle, putteth or ioyneth with the
concupiscence or lust of the flesh, the concupiscence & lust of the
eyes. finally when S. Paule placeth or putteth sobernes, modestie,
and temperaunce among the effects and fruites which the grace of God
ought to bring forth in us, doth hee not sufficiently forbid all
dissolutenes, lightnes, outrages, and disorders, as wel in our manners
as in our gestures, & other manner of doings. But for as much as all the former argumentes are founded and grounded
upon that definition of daunses, which I haue before geuen and made,
and that some men might deny it me, we must answeare that which they
haue bene accustomed to obiect against it. First of al I haue heard of
some which denye daunses to be shamelesse and dissolute gestures,
because that when they daunse, they do it not, but for a recreation of
themselues and bodily exercise, yea that they use it as a certayne
thing, which of itselfe is neither good nor euill. But let such people
be answeared after this manner, that is to say, that their affection
cannot so chaunge the nature of the thing, that it doth not alwaies
kepe and hold fast, his proper or owne name. We see that if one enter
or goe into a Brothel house, or Stewes, yea without affection or mind
to commit whoredome ther, yet neuerthelesse the place shal not cease
or leaue of to be called a stewes, or Brothell house. Likewise let
them say, that in daunsing they haue not any shamelesse or vilanous
mynde, & affection, which notwithstanding, may not well, easily, or
lightly be beleeued, yet so it is, yet daunses cease not to be called
shamelesse gestures. But what: The question is not onely of their persons, but of a thing,
which ought not to be in any use among Christians. And moreeuer this
is not all, to haue respect or regard onely of a mans owne selfe, but
we must loke also to our neighbours, who is he which dare assure or
warrant him selfe & others, that when he daunseth, or after that he
hath daunsed he hath not prevoked & stirred up the lust of the flesh
in some one of the standers by: But yet it is so, the effect & sute
declareth it, because that the daughter and sister of the County or
Earle of A. was so enamoured or rauished with the loue of a very
simple and base gentleman whom she had seene daunse in the courte, and
it printed so wel, that is, toke such deepe impression and roote in
her hart, and understanding, that against the will of Father and
Mother, parentes and friends shee maried him. Now let us come to the
poynt or matter, what prouoked this young gentlewoman beyng rych,
wise, learned, fayre, & of good countenaunce to loue a base man, of
litle discretion, unlearned, cockbrained, yea, which with great payne
or much adoe knoweth to write his owne name, and besyde, or moreouer
very deformed in face & countenaunce, if not to daunce onely, and to
see in him some small experience & skill to runne at the ringe:

Men will say, that shee shewed not hir wifedome, in that shee chose
her husbande for daunsing onely: but what is that the flesh doth not
intise and allure, with his snares & baytes: For albeit ther is so
much difference betweene the two parties, as betweene fayre gold and
leade, yea so much indeed yet by her wifedome shee kept him backe, or
made him to refrayne from striking, fighting, slaying, and casting the
house out at the windowes, as we say, for the least flee, which came
before his eies: yet so it is, that he obtayned and got her by the
meane abouesayde: notwithstanding if ther fell out no worse by
daunsing, this were somewhat to be supported, or borne withall. But now if he reply, and say hee careth not or regardeth not, what
other men think, seyng hee hath no maner of euil or naughty meaninge
in himselfe. I answere, that here we see an offense geuen, and the
very bond of loue broken and violated. For put the case, or graunt that daunsing were put & reckoned among
things indifferent, in respect and consideration of it selfe, is it
meete or dutifull that for an indifferent and light thing, a man
should geue an occasion of falling or stumbling to his neighboure: But
so farr of is it, that daunses should bee put in the rome and number
of thinges indifferent, that euery one ought to make an accompt of
them, and to holde them altogeather wicked, and unlawful: in so much
that I send all them againe back to their owne consciences, which say,
that in daunsing they haue not any impudent & shamelesse
affection.