[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: pharmacognosy medicinal plant active compound isol | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: pharmacognosy medicinal plant active compound isolation]

34. Mini Rev Med Chem. 2022;22(5):684-700. doi:
10.2174/1389557521666210913115651.

Acanthospermum hispidum DC: An Updated Review on Phytochemistry and Biological 
Activities.

Dos Santos ECF(1)(2), Machado JCB(3)(2), Ferreira MRA(1), Soares LAL(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Pharmacognosy, Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Federal 
University of Pernambuco, Recife, Pernambuco, Brazil.
(2)Postgraduate Program in Pharmaceutical Sciences, Federal University of 
Pernambuco, Recife, Pernambuco, Brazil.
(3)Laboratory of Pharmacognosy, Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Federal 
University of Pernambuco, Recife, Pernambuco,Brazil.

BACKGROUND: Acanthospermum hispidum DC is a medicinal plant present in America, 
Africa, Australia, India, Hawaii, and Brazil. In Brazil, the species is used in 
the treatment of gastrointestinal, respiratory disorders and has expectorant 
action. In the literature, there are studies on the chemical composition of the 
species, with reports of the presence of alkaloids, flavonoids, hydrolyzable 
tannins, terpenes, and steroids. In addition, several studies have reported in 
vitro and in vivo studies that prove the biological properties of extracts and 
compounds isolated from different organs of the A. hispidum plant, including 
hepatoprotectors, antioxidants, antimicrobials and antiparasitic.
OBJECTIVE: The objective of this review is to update the knowledge about the 
phytochemical, pharmacological and toxicity aspects of A. hispidum, and to 
contribute to the recognition of the species and direct new studies.
METHODS: An extensive bibliographic search was conducted in different scientific 
databases.
RESULTS: The presence of different chemical constituents in A. hispidum has been 
identified, among these constituents are flavonoids, tannins, terpenes, and 
steroids. Additionally, antimicrobial and antiparasitic activities were mainly 
attributed to the species, and other activities not previously described were 
presented, such as anticholinesterase, antioxidant, hepatoprotective, and 
hypoglycemic, all based on results of in vitro and in vivo studies. Finally, no 
reports of toxic effects were found in the in vitro and in vivo tests. After 
analyzing the articles, it was evidenced that other experiments with different 
models using animals are essential to evaluate the possible mechanisms of action 
of the extracts and compounds isolated of A. hispidum.
CONCLUSION: Therefore, this review may contribute to the recognition of the 
importance of A. hispidum and its potential as a medicinal plant and may also 
guide the conduct of future research regarding the constituents, biological 
activities, and toxicity of the species.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/1389557521666210913115651
PMID: 34517800 [Indexed for MEDLINE]