[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: curcumin anti-inflammatory clinical trial randomiz | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: curcumin anti-inflammatory clinical trial randomized]

10. Phytother Res. 2020 Aug;34(8):2067-2073. doi: 10.1002/ptr.6671. Epub 2020 Mar
 16.

Herbal formulation "turmeric extract, black pepper, and ginger" versus Naproxen 
for chronic knee osteoarthritis: A randomized, double-blind, controlled clinical 
trial.

Heidari-Beni M(1), Moravejolahkami AR(2), Gorgian P(3), Askari G(3), Tarrahi 
MJ(4), Bahreini-Esfahani N(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Child Growth and Development Research Center, 
Research Institute for Primordial Prevention of Non-communicable Disease, 
Isfahan University of Medical Sciences, Isfahan, Iran.
(2)Department of Community Nutrition, School of Nutrition and Food Sciences, 
Isfahan University of Medical Sciences, Isfahan, Iran.
(3)Food Security Research Center, Department of Community Nutrition, School of 
Nutrition and Food Sciences, Isfahan University of Medical Sciences, Isfahan, 
Iran.
(4)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, School of Health, Isfahan 
University of Medical Sciences, Isfahan, Iran.

Osteoarthritis is the most common articular disease that can lead to chronic 
pain and severe disability. Curcumin-an effective ingredient in turmeric with 
anti inflammatory property-plays an important role in protecting the joints 
against destructive factors. Gingerols and piperine, are the effective 
ingredients of ginger and black pepper, which may potentially enhance and 
sustain the effect of curcumin in this direction. To determine the effect of 
cosupplementation with turmeric extract, black pepper, and ginger on 
prostaglandin E2 (PGE2 ) in patients with chronic knee osteoarthritis, compared 
with Naproxen. Sixty patients with two different levels of knee osteoarthritis 
(Grade 2 and 3) were studied. Individuals were randomly assigned to receive 
daily turmeric extract, ginger, and black pepper together or Naproxen capsule 
for 4 weeks. PGE2 was evaluated by ELISA method. 24-hr recall was also assessed. 
All of participants completed the study. PGE2 decreased significantly in both 
groups (p < .001), but there was no significant differences between groups. The 
results of this study indicated that intake of the selected herbs twice a day 
for 4 weeks may improve the PGE2 levels in patients with chronic knee 
osteoarthritis similar to Naproxen drug.

© 2020 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/ptr.6671
PMID: 32180294 [Indexed for MEDLINE]