[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: Flux tube | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Flux tube — Overview

a flux tube. Under the condition that the cross-sectional area, , of the flux tube is small enough that the magnetic field is approximately constant, can be approximated as . Therefore, if the cross sectional area of the tube decreases along the tube from to , then the magnetic field strength must increase proportionally from to in order to satisfy the condition of constant flux F. Plasma physics

Flux conservation 

In magnetohydrodynamics, Alfvén's theorem states that the magnetic flux through a surface, such as the surface of a flux tube, moving along with a perfectly conducting fluid is conserved. In other words, the magnetic field is constrained to move with the fluid or is "frozen-in" to the fluid. This can be shown mathematically for a flux tube using the induction equation of a perfectly conducting fluid

where  is the magnetic field and  is the velocity field of the fluid. The change in magnetic flux over time through any open surface of the flux tube  enclosed by  with a differential line element  can be written as
. Using the induction equation gives

which can be rewritten using Stokes' theorem and an elementary vector identity on the first and second term, respectively, to give

Compression and extension 
In ideal magnetohydrodynamics, if a cylindrical flux tube of length  is compressed while the length of tube stays the same, the magnetic field and the density of the tube increase with the same proportionality. If a flux tube with a configuration of a magnetic field of  and a plasma density of  confined to the tube is compressed by a scalar value defined as , the new magnetic field and density are given by:

If , known as transverse compression,  and  increase and are scaled the same while transverse expansion decreases  and  by the same value and proportion where  is constant. Extending the length of the flux tube by  gives a new length of  while the density of the tube remains the same, , which then results in the magnetic field strength increasing by . Reducing the length of the tubes results in a decrease of the magnetic field's strength. Plasma pressure 
In magnetohydrostatic equilibrium, the following condition is met for the equation of motion of the plasma confined to the flux tube:

where
  is the plasma pressure
  is the current density of the plasma
  is the gravitational force
With the magnetohydrostatic equilibrium condition met, a cylindrical flux tube's plasma pressure of  is given by the following relation written in cylindrical coordinates with  as the distance from the axis radially:

The second term in the above equation gives the magnetic pressure force while the third term represents the magnetic tension force. The field line's twist around the axis from one end of the tube of length  to the other end is given by:

Examples

Solar 

Examples of solar flux tubes include sunspots and intense magnetic tubes in the photosphere and the field around the solar prominence and coronal loops in the corona. Sunspots occur when small flux tubes combine into a large flux tube that breaks the surface of the photosphere. The large flux tube of the sunspot has a field intensity of around 3 kG with a diameter of typically 4000 km. There are extreme cases of when the large flux tubes have diameters of  km with a field strength of 3 kG. Sunspots can continue to grow as long as there is a constant supply of new flux from small flux tubes on the surface of the Sun. The magnetic field within the flux tube can be compressed by decreasing the gas pressure inside and therefore the internal temperature of the tube while maintaining a constant pressure outside. Intense magnetic tubes are isolated flux tubes that have diameters of 100 to 300 km with an overall field strength of 1 to 2 kG and a flux of around Wb. These flux tubes are concentrated strong magnetic fields that are found between solar granules. The magnetic field causes the plasma pressure in the flux tube to decrease, known as the plasma density depletion region. If there is a significant difference in the temperatures in the flux tube and the surroundings, there is a decrease in plasma pressure as well as a decrease in the plasma density causing some of the magnetic field to escape the plasma. Plasma that is trapped within magnetic flux tubes that are attached to the photosphere, referred to as footpoints, create a loop-like structure known as a coronal loop. The plasma inside the loop has a higher temperature than the surroundings causing the pressure and density of the plasma to increase. These coronal loops get their characteristic high luminosity and ranges of shapes from the behavior of the magnetic flux tube. These flux tubes confine plasma and are characterized as isolated. The confined magnetic field strength varies from 0.1 to 10 G with diameters ranging from 200 to 300 km. The result of emerging twisted flux tubes from the interior of the Sun cause twisted magnetic structures in the corona, which then lead to solar prominences.