[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: MRI physics image quality artifact reduction | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: MRI physics image quality artifact reduction]

45. MAGMA. 2025 Feb;38(1):1-12. doi: 10.1007/s10334-024-01200-8. Epub 2024 Aug
30.

Deep learning for efficient reconstruction of highly accelerated 3D FLAIR MRI in 
neurological deficits.

Liebrand LC(#)(1)(2), Karkalousos D(#)(1)(2)(3), Poirion É(4), Emmer BJ(3), 
Roosendaal SD(3), Marquering HA(1)(3), Majoie CBLM(3), Savatovsky J(4), Caan 
MWA(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical Engineering & Physics, Amsterdam UMC Location 
University of Amsterdam, Meibergdreef 9, 1105 AZ, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(2)Amsterdam Neuroscience, Brain Imaging, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(3)Department of Radiology and Nuclear Medicine, Amsterdam UMC Location 
University of Amsterdam, Meibergdreef 9, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(4)Fondation Rothschild Hospital, 29 Rue Manin, Paris, France.
(5)Department of Biomedical Engineering & Physics, Amsterdam UMC Location 
University of Amsterdam, Meibergdreef 9, 1105 AZ, Amsterdam, The Netherlands. 
m.w.a.caan@amsterdamumc.nl.
(6)Amsterdam Neuroscience, Brain Imaging, Amsterdam, The Netherlands. 
m.w.a.caan@amsterdamumc.nl.
(#)Contributed equally

OBJECTIVE: To compare compressed sensing (CS) and the Cascades of Independently 
Recurrent Inference Machines (CIRIM) with respect to image quality and 
reconstruction times when 12-fold accelerated scans of patients with 
neurological deficits are reconstructed.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Twelve-fold accelerated 3D T2-FLAIR images were obtained 
from a cohort of 62 patients with neurological deficits on 3 T MRI. Images were 
reconstructed offline via CS and the CIRIM. Image quality was assessed in a 
blinded and randomized manner by two experienced interventional 
neuroradiologists and one experienced pediatric neuroradiologist on imaging 
artifacts, perceived spatial resolution (sharpness), anatomic conspicuity, 
diagnostic confidence, and contrast. The methods were also compared in terms of 
self-referenced quality metrics, image resolution, patient groups and 
reconstruction time. In ten scans, the contrast ratio (CR) was determined 
between lesions and white matter. The effect of acceleration factor was assessed 
in a publicly available fully sampled dataset, since ground truth data are not 
available in prospectively accelerated clinical scans. Specifically, 451 FLAIR 
scans, including scans with white matter lesions, were adopted from the FastMRI 
database to evaluate structural similarity (SSIM) and the CR of lesions and 
white matter on ranging acceleration factors from four-fold up to 12-fold.
RESULTS: Interventional neuroradiologists significantly preferred the CIRIM for 
imaging artifacts, anatomic conspicuity, and contrast. One rater significantly 
preferred the CIRIM in terms of sharpness and diagnostic confidence. The 
pediatric neuroradiologist preferred CS for imaging artifacts and sharpness. 
Compared to CS, the CIRIM reconstructions significantly improved in terms of 
imaging artifacts and anatomic conspicuity (p < 0.01) for higher resolution 
scans while yielding a 28% higher SNR (p = 0.001) and a 5.8% lower CR 
(p = 0.04). There were no differences between patient groups. Additionally, 
CIRIM was five times faster than CS was. An increasing acceleration factor did 
not lead to changes in CR (p = 0.92), but led to lower SSIM (p = 0.002).
DISCUSSION: Patients with neurological deficits can undergo MRI at a range of 
moderate to high acceleration. DL reconstruction outperforms CS in terms of 
image resolution, efficient denoising with a modest reduction in contrast and 
reduced reconstruction times.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s10334-024-01200-8
PMCID: PMC11790796
PMID: 39212832 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Conflict of interest: B.J. Emmer 
received funds from Healthcare Evaluation Netherlands, Health Holland. 
(unrelated to this project; all paid to institution). C.B.L.M. Majoie received 
funds from: CVON/Dutch Heart Foundation, European Commission, Healthcare 
Evaluation Netherlands, TWIN Foundation and Stryker (unrelated to this project; 
all paid to institution. H.A. Marquering, C.B.L.M. Majoie and M.W.A. Caan are 
shareholders of Nicolab International Ltd. H.A. Marquering is a shareholder of 
TrianecT B.V. (unrelated to this project; all paid individually) J. Savatovsky 
received funds for travel costs and lecture fees: Koninklijke Philips N.V., 
Canon Inc., and Bayer AG. Julien Savatovsky is a shareholder of Chipiron, 
Guerbet, and GeodAIsics. Ethical standards: The research was approved by the 
Rothschild Foundation Hospital review board – IRB 00012801- under the study 
number CE_20210928_2_JSY.