[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: traditional Chinese medicine herbs mechanism actio | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: traditional Chinese medicine herbs mechanism action]

1. J Ethnopharmacol. 2024 Apr 24;324:117793. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2024.117793. Epub
 2024 Jan 24.

Treatment of gastric ulcer, traditional Chinese medicine may be a better choice.

Gong H(1), Zhao N(2), Zhu C(3), Luo L(4), Liu S(5).

Author information:
(1)School of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Capital Medical University, Beijing, 
China; Department of Gastroenterology, Jiangsu Province Hospital of Chinese 
Medicine, Affiliated Hospital of Nanjing University of Chinese Medicine, 
Nanjing, China.
(2)Wuxi School of Medicine, Jiangnan University, Wuxi, China.
(3)Department of Pharmacy, Fuyang People's Hospital, Fuyang, Anhui, China.
(4)School of Basic Medical Sciences, Beijing Key Laboratory of Neural 
Regeneration and Repair, Advanced Innovation Center for Human Brain Protection, 
Capital Medical University, Beijing, China.
(5)School of Basic Medical Sciences, Beijing Key Laboratory of Neural 
Regeneration and Repair, Advanced Innovation Center for Human Brain Protection, 
Capital Medical University, Beijing, China. Electronic address: 
liusen97@163.com.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Gastric ulcer (GU) is the injury of the gastric 
mucosa caused by the stimulation of various pathogenic factors penetrating the 
deep mucosal muscle layer. An increasing number of studies have shown that 
traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) is highly effective in treating GU due to its 
multitarget, multilevel, and multi-pathway effects.
AIM OF THE STUDY: To review the latest research progress in the treatment of GU 
by TCM, including clinical and experimental studies, focusing on the target and 
mechanism of action of drugs and providing a theoretical basis for the treatment 
of GU by natural herbs.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Electronic databases (PubMed, Elsevier, Springer, Web of 
Science, and CNKI) were searched using the keywords "gastric ulcer", "gastric 
mucosal lesion", "TCM" and or paired with "peptic ulcer" and "natural drugs" for 
studies published in the last fifteen years until 2023.
RESULTS: TCM, including single components of natural products, Chinese patent 
medicines (CPM), and TCM decoction, is expected to treat GU by regulating 
various mechanisms, such as redox balance, inflammatory factors, angiogenesis, 
gastric mucosal protective factors, intestinal flora, apoptosis, and autophagy.
CONCLUSIONS: We discussed and summarized the mechanism of TCM in the treatment 
of GU, which provided a sufficient basis for TCM treatment of GU.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2024.117793
PMID: 38278376 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest All authors of 
this paper declare that we have no competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported this 
paper.