[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS neurology | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS neurology]

34. J Integr Neurosci. 2022 Jun 7;21(4):110. doi: 10.31083/j.jin2104110.

Applications of transcranial magnetic stimulation in migraine: evidence from a 
scoping review.

Calabrò RS(1), Billeri L(2), Manuli A(3), Iacono A(4), Naro A(5).

Author information:
(1)IRCCS Centro Neurolesi Bonino Pulejo-Piemonte, 98124 Messina, Italy.
(2)Istituto Clinico Polispecialistico, C.O.T. Cure Ortopediche Traumatologiche 
s.p.a., 98124 Messina, Italy.
(3)AOU Policlinico "G. Martino", Rehabilitation Unit, 98124 Messina, Italy.
(4)Ospedali Riuniti Villa Sofia-Cervello, Neurology Unit, 90146 Palermo, Italy.
(5)AOU Policlinico "G. Martino", Stroke Unit, 98124 Messina, Italy.

Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS), a non-invasive brain stimulation 
method, is trying to emerge as a migraine management strategy for both attack 
treatment and prevention. This scoping review presents 16 among single-pulse (to 
manage episodic and chronic migraine) and repetitive TMS randomized clinical 
trials (to manage chronic migraine). The works we reviewed suggest that TMS may 
be adopted as add-on therapy in those patients who are refractory to 
pharmacological therapy only with special arrangements for individualized 
treatment strategies or research. There are still limited clinical research 
programs and metaanalysis to promote routinely TMS employment, as TMS has been 
shown either to have no significant effects for any outcome or to be effective 
for migraine. These diverging conclusions depend on several biasing factors, 
including the lack of reliable, large, sham-controlled clinical trials, the 
dyshomogeneity in study designs (including the area of stimulation, the 
frequency of stimulation, the number of pulses, pulse intensity, and the number 
of sessions), patient selection criteria (migraine w/o aura, episodic and 
chronic migraine; TMS contraindication), and the lack of outcomes homogeneity 
and long-term real-world efficacy data. Therefore, in the future, it will be 
important to conduct larger randomized trials to confirm TMS usefulness in 
migraine management (acute attack and prophylactic treatment), identify those 
patients who may benefit from TMS, maybe independently of pharmacological 
treatments (i.e., using TMS as an alternative and not only as an add-on 
treatment). Otherwise, TMS will play a role in treating migraine only with 
special arrangements for individualized management strategies or research.

© 2022 The Author(s). Published by IMR Press.

DOI: 10.31083/j.jin2104110
PMID: 35864762 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest. RSC 
is serving as one of the Editorial Board members/Guest editors of this journal. 
We declare that RSC had no involvement in the peer review of this article and 
has no access to information regarding its peer review. Full responsibility for 
the editorial process for this article was delegated to RF.