[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS neurology | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS neurology]

1. Ageing Res Rev. 2022 Feb;74:101531. doi: 10.1016/j.arr.2021.101531. Epub 2021 
Nov 25.

Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) for geriatric depression.

Cappon D(1), den Boer T(2), Jordan C(3), Yu W(2), Metzger E(4), Pascual-Leone 
A(5).

Author information:
(1)Hinda and Arthur Marcus Institute for Aging Research, Hebrew SeniorLife, 
Boston, MA, USA; Deanna and Sidney Wolk Center for Memory Health, Hebrew 
SeniorLife, Boston, MA, USA; Department of Neurology, Harvard Medical School, 
Boston, MA, USA. Electronic address: davidebaloscappon@hsl.harvard.edu.
(2)Hinda and Arthur Marcus Institute for Aging Research, Hebrew SeniorLife, 
Boston, MA, USA.
(3)Hinda and Arthur Marcus Institute for Aging Research, Hebrew SeniorLife, 
Boston, MA, USA; Deanna and Sidney Wolk Center for Memory Health, Hebrew 
SeniorLife, Boston, MA, USA.
(4)Hinda and Arthur Marcus Institute for Aging Research, Hebrew SeniorLife, 
Boston, MA, USA; Department of Psychiatry, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, 
USA.
(5)Hinda and Arthur Marcus Institute for Aging Research, Hebrew SeniorLife, 
Boston, MA, USA; Deanna and Sidney Wolk Center for Memory Health, Hebrew 
SeniorLife, Boston, MA, USA; Department of Neurology, Harvard Medical School, 
Boston, MA, USA; Guttmann Brain Health Institut, Guttmann Institut, Spain.

BACKGROUND: The prevalence of treatment-resistant geriatric depression (GD) 
highlights the need for treatments that preserve cognitive functions and 
recognize polypharmacy in elderly, yet effectively reduce symptom burden. 
Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) is a proven intervention for 
treatment-resistant depression in younger adults but the efficacy of TMS to 
treat depressed older adults is still unclear. This review provides an updated 
view on the efficacy of TMS treatment for GD, discusses methodological 
differences between trials in TMS application, and explores avenues for 
optimization of TMS treatment in the context of the ageing brain.
METHODS: A systematic review was conducted to identify published literature on 
the antidepressant efficacy of TMS for GD. Databases PubMed, Embase, and 
PsycINFO were searched for English language articles in peer-reviewed journals 
in March 2021.
RESULTS: Seven randomized controlled trials (RCTs) (total n = 260, active 
n = 148, control n = 112) and seven uncontrolled trials (total n = 160) were 
included. Overall, we found substantial variability in the clinical response, 
ranging from 6.7% to 54.3%.
CONCLUSIONS: The reviewed literature highlights large heterogeneity among 
studies both in terms of the employed TMS dosage and the observed clinical 
efficacy. This highlights the need for optimizing TMS dosage by recognizing the 
unique clinical features of GD. We showcase a set of novel approaches for the 
optimization of the TMS protocol for depression and discuss the possibility for 
a standardized TMS protocol tailored for the treatment of GD.

Copyright © 2021. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.arr.2021.101531
PMCID: PMC8996329
PMID: 34839043 [Indexed for MEDLINE]