[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: biomaterial implant osseointegration titanium clin | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: biomaterial implant osseointegration titanium clinical]

27. ACS Nano. 2025 Jul 22;19(28):26127-26146. doi: 10.1021/acsnano.5c07535. Epub 
2025 Jul 8.

Nanozyme Coating-Mediated Mitochondrial Metabolic Reprogramming of Macrophages 
for Immunomodulatory Osseointegration in Rheumatoid Arthritis Case.

Chen S(1), Liu X(1), Zhang W(2), Li B(1), Liu F(2), Zhang Y(3), Han Y(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory for Mechanical Behavior of Materials, Xi'an Jiaotong 
University, Xi'an 710049 Shaanxi, China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Oral & Maxillofacial Reconstruction and Regeneration, 
National Clinical Research Center for Oral Diseases, Shaanxi Clinical Research 
Center for Oral Diseases, Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery, School 
of Stomatology, The Fourth Military Medical University, Xi'an 710032, China.
(3)Department of Orthopaedics, The First Affiliated Hospital of Xi'an Jiaotong 
University, Xi'an 710100, Shaanxi, China.

Conventional titanium (Ti)-based implants often fail to achieve osseointegration 
in bone defects accompanied by rheumatoid arthritis (RA), primarily due to the 
RA pathological microenvironment, characterized by elevated reactive oxygen 
species (ROS) levels and hypoxia. This microenvironment induces mitochondria 
dysfunction and intracellular Ca2+ overload, facilitating macrophage 
polarization toward the M1 phenotype and thus impairing osteoimmunomodulatory 
osseointegration. To address this challenge, a nanozyme-inspired coating, 
featuring the deposition of MnFe2O4 nanoparticles onto a polydopamine 
(PDA)-decorated surface of microporous TiO2, is constructed on Ti (known as MFO 
coating). The osteoimmunomodulatory osseointegration of the coating, both in 
vitro and in vivo, accompanied by RA was assessed, and the underlying mechanisms 
were also investigated. Due to the efficient conversion of H2O2 into O2 and 
robust ROS-scavenging capabilities, the coating mitigates mitochondria ROS 
accumulation and intracellular Ca2+ overload induced by the pathological 
microenvironment, while simultaneously elevating intracellular O2 levels, 
thereby preventing macrophage apoptosis. Meanwhile, by improving the 
microenvironment, the coating activates moderate mitophagy through the 
Ca2+-AMPK-mTOR signaling pathway, facilitating the removal of dysfunctional 
mitochondria and the preservation of mitochondrial dynamics and integrity. As a 
result, the restored mitochondria reprogram their metabolic pathway from relying 
on anaerobic to relying on aerobic oxidative phosphorylation, facilitating 
macrophage polarization toward the M2 phenotype, which not only inhibits 
osteoclastogenesis but also accelerates osseointegration in rats with RA. The 
coating presents a transformative approach to Ti-based implant design for bone 
defects associated with inflammatory diseases, potentially reducing the risk of 
revision surgery and offering a long-lasting lifespan for patients.

DOI: 10.1021/acsnano.5c07535
PMID: 40628648 [Indexed for MEDLINE]