[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: cannabis cannabidiol therapeutic epilepsy pain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: cannabis cannabidiol therapeutic epilepsy pain]

95. J Chromatogr B Analyt Technol Biomed Life Sci. 2019 Mar 1;1109:76-83. doi: 
10.1016/j.jchromb.2019.01.027. Epub 2019 Jan 30.

Development of a validated method for the qualitative and quantitative analysis 
of cannabinoids in plant biomass and medicinal cannabis resin extracts obtained 
by super-critical fluid extraction.

Elkins AC(1), Deseo MA(2), Rochfort S(2), Ezernieks V(2), Spangenberg G(2).

Author information:
(1)Agriculture Victoria Research, AgriBio, Centre for AgriBioscience, Bundoora, 
VIC 3083, Australia. Electronic address: aaron.elkins@ecodev.vic.gov.au.
(2)Agriculture Victoria Research, AgriBio, Centre for AgriBioscience, Bundoora, 
VIC 3083, Australia.

The social push for the therapeutic use of cannabis extracts has increased 
significantly over recent years. Cannabis is being used for treatment for 
conditions such as epilepsy, cancer and pain management. There are a range of 
medicinal cannabis products available, but the use of cannabis resin obtained by 
super critical fluid extraction, often diluted in oil, is becoming increasingly 
more prominent. Much of the research on cannabis has focused on plant biomass or 
the final therapeutic product with a concerning lack of information on the 
intermediate resin. This study aims to bridge the gap between current methods of 
analysis for biomass and the final therapeutic product by describing a fully 
developed and validated ultra-high-performance-liquid-chromatography method with 
diode array detection (UHPLC-DAD) for the qualification and quantification of 
the cannabinoids CBDA, CBD, CBN, THC, CBC and THCA, in medicinal cannabis 
biomass and resin obtained by super-critical fluid extraction (SFE). The method 
was validated for specificity, linearity, limit of detection (LOD), limit of 
quantitation (LOQ), precision, accuracy, robustness, spike recovery and 
stability in accordance with the Validation of Analytical Procedures: Text and 
Methodology Q2 to meet the requirements of the International Council for 
Harmonisation (ICH), Therapeutic Goods Authority (TGA) and the Food and Drug 
Administration (FDA) test method validation regulations.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jchromb.2019.01.027
PMID: 30738340 [Indexed for MEDLINE]