[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: phytotherapy systematic review clinical evidence | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: phytotherapy systematic review clinical evidence]

43. J Ethnopharmacol. 2024 Feb 10;320:117439. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2023.117439.
Epub  2023 Nov 18.

A review of the traditional uses, phytochemistry, pharmacology, and clinical 
evidence for the use of the genus Alchemilla (Rosaceae).

Jakimiuk K(1), Tomczyk M(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacognosy, Faculty of Pharmacy with the Division of 
Laboratory Medicine, Medical University of Białystok, Ul. Mickiewicza 2a, 15-230 
Białystok, Poland. Electronic address: katarzyna.jakimiuk@umb.edu.pl.
(2)Department of Pharmacognosy, Faculty of Pharmacy with the Division of 
Laboratory Medicine, Medical University of Białystok, Ul. Mickiewicza 2a, 15-230 
Białystok, Poland. Electronic address: michal.tomczyk@umb.edu.pl.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: The genus Alchemilla L. (lady's mantle) 
comprises 1000 species, of which more than 300 have been characterized from 
Europe. Notably, as folk medicines, Alchemilla species have long been prescribed 
for the treatment of dysmenorrhea, pruritus vulvae, menopausal complaints, and 
related diseases in women. This review summarizes the traditional uses, 
highlights promising plant species, and focuses on phytochemical and biological 
studies to highlight future areas of research.
AIM OF THE REVIEW: This literature review aims to provide a comprehensive 
overview of Alchemilla species, covering their botany, traditional uses, 
phytochemistry, and biological and pharmacological activities, and to summarize 
the current research status to better understand the application value of 
Alchemilla plants in modern phytotherapy.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The search strategy utilized the major thematic platforms 
Reaxys, Web of Science, Google Scholar, Scopus, ScienceDirect, PubMed, the USDA 
Plant Database and Kew Science (Royal Botanic Gardens) and was performed with 
the term Alchemilla. These platforms were systematically searched for articles 
published from 1960 to 2023.
RESULTS AND DISCUSSION: Alchemilla species, as members of the Rosaceae family, 
produce tannins, phenolic acids, flavonoids, anthocyanins, coumarins, 
triterpenes and violet compounds. Effort has been made with this comprehensive 
review of Alchemilla plants to highlight the recent developments and milestones 
achieved in modern phytochemistry and phytotherapy, underlaying a broad spectrum 
of the activities of these plants, such as antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, 
neuroprotective, antimicrobial, antiobesity, cardiovascular, anticancer, and 
wound healing effects.
CONCLUSIONS: An increasing number of studies on the plants in the Alchemilla 
genus have provided data about the main constituents and their importance in 
modern medicine. Both in vitro and in vivo studies have indicated that 
Alchemilla plants possess an extensive spectrum of biological activities. 
Regardless of the remarkable medical potential of Alchemilla extracts, clinical 
studies are limited and need to be performed to produce safer and less expensive 
plant-based drugs.

Copyright © 2023. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2023.117439
PMID: 37981119 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.