[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: Liquid-crystal polymer | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Liquid-crystal polymer — Overview

Because of the rigid structure, strong solvent is needed to dissolve the lyotropic main chain polymers. When the concentration of the polymers reaches critical concentration, the mesophases begin to form and the viscosity of the polymer solution begins to decrease. Lyotropic main chain LCPs have been mainly used to generate high-strength fibers such as Kevlar. Side chain LCPs usually consist of both hydrophobic and hydrophilic segments. Usually, the side chain ends are hydrophilic. When they are dissolved in water, micelles will form due to hydrophobic force. If the volume fraction of the polymers exceeds the critical volume fraction, the micellar segregates will be packed to form a liquid crystal structure. As the concentration varies above the critical volume fraction, the liquid crystal generated may have different packing ways. Temperature, the stiffness of the polymers, molecular weight of the polymers can affect the liquid crystal transformation. Lyotropic side chain LCPs like alkyl polyoxyethylene surfactants attached to polysiloxane polymers may be applied to personal care products like liquid soap etc. Thermotropic systems 
The study of thermotropic LCPs is inspired by the success of the lyotropic LCPs. This kind of LCPs can only be processable when the melting temperature is far below the decomposition temperature. Above the melting temperature and glass transition temperature and below the clearing point, the thermotropic LCPs will form liquid crystals. After the clearing point, the melt will be isotropic and clear again. What is different from the small molecular liquid crystals is that we can get frozen liquid crystals by quenching the liquid crystal polymers below the glass transition temperature. Moreover, we can use copolymerization to adjust the melting temperature and mesophase temperature. There are other systems like phototropic systems. Liquid crystal elastomers (LCEs) 
Finkelmann first proposed LCEs in 1981. LCEs attracted attention from researchers and industry. LCEs can be synthesized both from polymeric precursors and from monomers. LCEs can respond to heat, light, and magnetic fields. Nanomaterials can be introduced into LCE matrices (LCE-based composites) to provide different properties and tailor LCEs' ability to respond to different stimuli. Applications 
LCEs have many applications. For example, LCE films can be used as optical retarders due to their anisotropic structure. Because they can control the polarization state of transmitted light, they are commonly used in 3D glasses, patterned retarders for transflective displays, and flat panel LC displays. Modifying LCE with azobenzene, allows it to show light response properties. It can be applied for controlled wettability, autonomous lenses, and haptic surfaces. Besides the display application, research has focused on other interesting properties such as its special thermally and photogenerated macroscale mechanical responses, which means they can be good actuators. LCEs are used to make actuators and artificial muscles for robotics. They have been studied for use as lightweight energy absorbers, with potential applications in helmets, body armor, vehicle bumpers, using multi-layered, tilted beams of LCE, sandwiched between stiff supporting structures. Synthesis

Polymeric precursors 
LCEs synthesized from the polymeric precursors can be divided into two subcategories:

Poly(hydrosiloxane): A two-step crosslinking technique is applied to derive LCEs from poly(hydrosiloxane). Poly(dydrosiloxane) is mixed with a monovinyl-functionalized liquid crystalline monomer, a multifunctional vinyl crosslinker, and catalyst. This mixture is used to generate a weakly crosslinked gel, in which the monomers are linked to the poly(dydrosiloxane) backbones. During the first crosslinking step or shortly after that, orientation is introduced into the mesogen cores of the gel with mechanical alignment methods. After that, the gel is dehydrated and the crosslinking reaction is completed. Therefore, the orientation is kept in the elastomer by crosslinking. In this way, highly ordered side chain LCEs can be produced, which are also called single-crystal or monodomain LCEs. LCPs: With LCPs as precursors, a similar two-step method can be applied. Aligned LCPs mixed with multifunctional crosslinkers directly generate LCEs. The mixture is first heated to isotopic. Fibers are drawn from the mixture and then crosslinked, thus the orientation can be trapped in the LCE. However, it is limited by the difficulty of processing caused by the high viscosity of the starting material. Low molar mass monomers 
Liquid crystal low molar mass monomers are mixed with crosslinkers and catalysts. The monomers can be aligned and then polymerized to keep the orientation. One advantage of this method is that the low molar mass monomers can be aligned by not only mechanical alignment, but also diamagnetic, dielectric, surface alignment. For example, thiol-ene radical step-growth polymerization and Michael addition produce well-ordered LCEs.