[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: Iris lacustris | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Iris lacustris — Overview

1966. It was verified by United States Department of Agriculture and the Agricultural Research Service on 15 April 1994, then updated on 3 December 2004. It is a close relative to Iris cristata, the only other crested iris native to North America. However, unlike it, Iris lacustris is found only in small areas of the Great Lakes region that have been glacier-free for only 11,000 years. It was once thought to be a form of Iris cristata, (by William Rickatson Dykes in 1913 and other authors), later chromosomal studies confirmed the two were separate species. Distribution and habitat

Iris lacustris is native to temperate regions of northern America. Range
It is found in Canada, within the province of Ontario (on the Bruce Peninsula and Manitoulin Island). It is found in U.S.A., within the states of Michigan, Wisconsin, and, infrequently in Ohio. It is found on northern shores and smaller islands of Lake Michigan, Lake Huron, and Lake Superior, within the Great Lakes region. The majority of iris populations are within 500 m of the shore of Lake Huron, but the largest ones can occur up several kilometres away from the lake. Habitat
It grows on the Great Lakes shorelines in cool, moist lake shore air. It is found on sand, or in thin soil over limestone-rich gravel, in calcareous (chalky) soil, or bedrock. It also grows on alvar limestone barrens, and along shorelines, old beach ridges, beside streams, in ditches, on cliffs, behind open dunes, or at the edges of coniferous woods (in Canada and Michigan). Conservation
Iris lacustris is designated a "vulnerable" threatened species by federal, state and provincial laws throughout its distribution range. It was added to the U.S. List of Endangered and Threatened Wildlife and Plants on September 28, 1988. It is on the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service's endangered species program. It was listed by the federal U.S. government as 'threatened' since February 1, 2001. It has become threatened due to habitat destruction, from shoreline development, from road-widening projects, chemical spraying and salting, and off-road vehicle use have caused disturbance and destruction of habitat, and degradation of habitats. Due to being a protected species, plants can not be dug up or seeds gathered. A permit is required for any project (including research, development, and construction) which may "take" or "harm" threatened or endangered species in Michigan. Also 37% of the Canadian population is on land in protected areas. Shoreline development has also improved some habitats by opening up the canopy and creating new open ground. Cultivation
It is hardy to between USDA Zone 4 and Zone 7. and European Zone H2 It is hardy in Europe, and in the UK. It is tolerant of a range of soils, but prefers moist, slightly acidic neutral soils. It flowers mostly in semi-open habitats with partial sun. Although it can tolerate sunny sites. It can grow in a peat bank, or can be grown in a six-inch pot or similar container. It is rarely offered for sale in Europe. A specimen has been grown in Cambridge Botanic Garden. Toxicity
Like many other irises, most parts of the plant are poisonous (rhizome and leaves), if mistakenly ingested can cause stomach pains and vomiting. Handling the plant may also cause a skin irritation or an allergic reaction. Culture
In 1998, Iris lacustris was designated the state wildflower of Michigan, where the vast majority of populations exist. References

Other sources
 Center for Plant Conservation. Center for Plant Conservation National Collection of Endangered Plants (on-line resource). FNA Editorial Committee. 1993–. Flora of North America. Gleason, H. A. & A. Cronquist. 1991. Manual of vascular plants of north eastern United States and adjacent Canada, ed. 2. Kartesz, J. T. 1994. A synonymized checklist of the vascular flora of the United States, Canada, and Greenland. Mathew, B. 1981. The Iris. 74–75. Scoggan, H. J. 1978–1979. The flora of Canada, 4 vol. United States Fish and Wildlife Service. U.S. Fish & Wildlife Service. Species Information: threatened and endangered animals and plants (on-line resource). Voss, E. 1972–. Michigan flora. External links 
 USDA PLANTS profile: Iris lacustris (dwarf lake iris)

lacustris
Flora of the Great Lakes region (North America)
Flora of Michigan
Flora of Ontario
Flora of Wisconsin
Flora of Canada
Flora of Ohio
Vulnerable plants
Symbols of Michigan
Plants described in 1818