[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: crystal structure protein drug target binding | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: crystal structure protein drug target binding]

37. Methods. 2015 Jan;71:104-12. doi: 10.1016/j.ymeth.2014.09.009. Epub 2014 Oct
5.

A new crystal structure fragment-based pharmacophore method for G 
protein-coupled receptors.

Fidom K(1), Isberg V(2), Hauser AS(3), Mordalski S(4), Lehto T(5), Bojarski 
AJ(6), Gloriam DE(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Drug Design and Pharmacology, Faculty of Health and Medical 
Sciences, University of Copenhagen, Denmark. Electronic address: 
kimberleyfidom@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Drug Design and Pharmacology, Faculty of Health and Medical 
Sciences, University of Copenhagen, Denmark. Electronic address: vis@sund.ku.dk.
(3)Department of Drug Design and Pharmacology, Faculty of Health and Medical 
Sciences, University of Copenhagen, Denmark. Electronic address: 
alexshauser@gmail.com.
(4)Department of Medicinal Chemistry, Institute of Pharmacology, Polish Academy 
of Sciences, Poland; Faculty of Biochemistry, Biophysics and Biotechnology, 
Jagiellonian University, Krakow, Poland. Electronic address: 
stefanm@if-pan.krakow.pl.
(5)Department of Drug Design and Pharmacology, Faculty of Health and Medical 
Sciences, University of Copenhagen, Denmark. Electronic address: thomas@leh2.dk.
(6)Department of Medicinal Chemistry, Institute of Pharmacology, Polish Academy 
of Sciences, Poland. Electronic address: bojarski@if-pan.krakow.pl.
(7)Department of Drug Design and Pharmacology, Faculty of Health and Medical 
Sciences, University of Copenhagen, Denmark. Electronic address: 
david.gloriam@sund.ku.dk.

We have developed a new method for the building of pharmacophores for G 
protein-coupled receptors, a major drug target family. The method is a 
combination of the ligand- and target-based pharmacophore methods and founded on 
the extraction of structural fragments, interacting ligand moiety and receptor 
residue pairs, from crystal structure complexes. We describe the procedure to 
collect a library with more than 250 fragments covering 29 residue positions 
within the generic transmembrane binding pocket. We describe how the library 
fragments are recombined and inferred to build pharmacophores for new targets. A 
validating retrospective virtual screening of histamine H1 and H3 receptor 
pharmacophores yielded area-under-the-curves of 0.88 and 0.82, respectively. The 
fragment-based method has the unique advantage that it can be applied to targets 
for which no (homologous) crystal structures or ligands are known. 47% of the 
class A G protein-coupled receptors can be targeted with at least four-element 
pharmacophores. The fragment libraries can also be used to grow known ligands or 
for rotamer refinement of homology models. Researchers can download the complete 
fragment library or a subset matching their receptor of interest using our new 
tool in GPCRDB.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ymeth.2014.09.009
PMID: 25286328 [Indexed for MEDLINE]