[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: ethnobotany traditional medicine biological activi | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: ethnobotany traditional medicine biological activity]

27. J Ethnopharmacol. 2024 Aug 10;330:118181. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2024.118181.
Epub  2024 Apr 10.

Ethnobotanical uses, phytochemistry and bioactivities of Cymbopogon plants: A 
review.

Zhao J(1), Fan Y(2), Cheng Z(2), Kennelly EJ(3), Long C(4).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Ecology and Environment in Minority Areas (Minzu University 
of China), National Ethnic Affairs Commission, Beijing, 100081, China; College 
of Life and Environmental Sciences, Minzu University of China, Beijing, 100081, 
China; School of Ethnology and Sociology, Minzu University of China, Beijing, 
100081, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Ecology and Environment in Minority Areas (Minzu University 
of China), National Ethnic Affairs Commission, Beijing, 100081, China; College 
of Life and Environmental Sciences, Minzu University of China, Beijing, 100081, 
China; Key Laboratory of Ethnomedicine (Minzu University of China), Ministry of 
Education, Beijing, 100081, China; Institute of National Security Studies, Minzu 
University of China, Beijing, 100081, China.
(3)Department of Biological Sciences, Lehman College, City University of New 
York, Bronx, NY, 10468, USA.
(4)Key Laboratory of Ecology and Environment in Minority Areas (Minzu University 
of China), National Ethnic Affairs Commission, Beijing, 100081, China; College 
of Life and Environmental Sciences, Minzu University of China, Beijing, 100081, 
China; Key Laboratory of Ethnomedicine (Minzu University of China), Ministry of 
Education, Beijing, 100081, China; Institute of National Security Studies, Minzu 
University of China, Beijing, 100081, China. Electronic address: 
long.chunlin@muc.edu.cn.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Cymbopogon (Poaceae) plants have been used for 
various purposes by many indigenous peoples in all continents. In particular, 
almost all species in the genus have traditionally been used as folk medicine to 
treat ailments. Traditional application records indicated that Cymbopogon might 
be used extensively to treat cold, dizziness, headache, loss of appetite, 
abdominal pain, rheumatism, diarrhea, whole grass for cold, sore throat, 
tracheitis and others.
AIMS OF THE REVIEW: Despite several research confirmed that Cymbopogon includes 
a range of active components, no review has been undertaken to consolidate 
information on its traditional uses, phytochemistry, pharmacology, and/or 
quality control. Thus this article aims to update a comprehensive review about 
the traditional uses, phytochemistry, pharmacology, cultivation techniques, 
economic benefits, trade, threats, and future conservation implications of 
Cymbopogon species. It may provide informative data for future development and 
further investigation of this important plant group.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Traditional medicinal books and ethnomedicinal 
publications related to Cymbopogon from 1992 to 2023 were collated to 
investigate its ethnobotanical, phytochemical and pharmacological information. 
The online databases including Google Scholar, SciFinder, Web of Science, 
Scopus, Springer Link, PubMed, Wiley, China National Knowledge Infrastructure 
(CNKI), Baidu Scholar, and WanFang Database were screened.
RESULTS: Cymbopogon (Gramineae or Poaceae) plants have been grown worldwide. 
Traditional Chinese medicine and other medicinal systems believes that 
Cymbopogon has the effect of relieve a cough, analgesia, treating dizziness, 
traumatic injury and can relieve abdominal pain. A total of 153 compounds, 
including flavonoids, terpenoids, fatty acid and other compounds were isolated 
or identified from Cymbopogon species by phytochemical studies. The extracts or 
compounds from Cymbopogon have exhibited numerous biological activities such as 
antibacterial, antiinflammatory, antiviral, antineoplastic, antiarrhythmic, 
antidiabetic and other activities. The rich contents of citronellal, citronellol 
and geraniol found in Cymbopogon also provide significant nutritional benefits.
CONCLUSION: Based on their traditional uses, phytochemicals, and pharmacological 
activities, Cymbopogon plants are potential medicinal and edible resources with 
diverse pharmacological effects. Due to various advantages of this group, they 
possess huge application potential in food and pharmaceutical industries, and 
animal husbandry. Among them, citronella is very important in terms of economic 
development. Further comprehensive research to evaluate the medicinal properties 
of Cymbopogon species will be necessary for future development.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2024.118181
PMID: 38608798 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare no conflict of interest.