[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: magnetic resonance spectroscopy metabolite brain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: magnetic resonance spectroscopy metabolite brain]

16. J Magn Reson. 2020 Nov;320:106834. doi: 10.1016/j.jmr.2020.106834. Epub 2020
Sep  24.

Proton nuclear magnetic resonance J-spectroscopy of phantoms containing brain 
metabolites on a portable 0.05 T MRI scanner.

Ronen I(1), O'Reilly T(2), Froeling M(3), Webb AG(2).

Author information:
(1)C. J. Gorter Center for High Field MRI, Department of Radiology, Leiden 
University Medical Center, Leiden, the Netherlands. Electronic address: 
i.ronen@lumc.nl.
(2)C. J. Gorter Center for High Field MRI, Department of Radiology, Leiden 
University Medical Center, Leiden, the Netherlands.
(3)Department of Radiology, University Medical Center Utrecht, Utrecht, the 
Netherlands.

We examined approaches for obtaining 1H NMR spectra of brain metabolites on a 
low-field (B0 = 0.05 T) portable MRI scanner, which was developed in our 
laboratory with the aim of bringing cost-effective radiological services to 
populations in underserved, remote regions. The low static magnetic field B0 
dictates low signal to noise ratio for metabolites in the mM concentration 
range, and results in an overall spectral region for the 1H resonances of these 
metabolites narrower than the linewidth obtainable in our scanner. The narrow 
spectral range also precludes the possibility of suppressing the large 
contribution of the water resonance at the acquisition stage. We used a 
spectroscopic Carr-Purcell-Meiboom-Gill (CPMG) sequence to acquire multiecho 
data from solutions of J-coupled brain metabolites, focusing on lactic acid, a 
metabolite whose concentration is negligible in the healthy brain and increases 
significantly in several disease conditions. The J spectra we obtained for 
lactate from the Fourier transformation of the multiecho data are spectrally 
well-resolved for a range of echo spacing values. We show that the J spectra at 
different echo spacings fit well with simulations of the evolution of echo train 
signal of the lactate under the same conditions. Applying a J-refocused variant 
of the CPMG sequence, the J modulation of the echo decay is removed, providing a 
way for subtracting the large contribution of the non-modulated component in the 
J spectrum in conditions where notching it using post-processing methods is 
impossible. We also demonstrate by means of experimental data and simulations 
that in our experimental conditions, J-spectra of other prominent brain 
metabolites, such as the neurotransmitter glutamate, do not yield discernible 
peaks and only contribute to a broad peak at zero frequency.

Copyright © 2020 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jmr.2020.106834
PMID: 33022563 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.