[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Propulsion Mechanics | Topic: Chinese Lunar Exploration Program | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Chinese Lunar Exploration Program — Overview

2014. It was designed to test the lunar return spacecraft. Chang'e 5 was launched on 23 November 2020, landed near Mons Rümker on the Moon on 1 December 2020, and returned to Earth with about 1.7 kilograms of lunar soil on 16 December 2020. Final Phase: Lunar robotic research station Phase IV is the development of an autonomous lunar research station near the Moon's south pole. The Phase IV program entered active development in 2023 following the successful completion of the previous three phases. Chang'e 6, expected to launch in May 2024, will investigate the topography, composition and subsurface structure of the South Pole–Aitken basin. The mission will return samples to Earth. Chang'e 7, expected to launch in 2026, is a mission that will explore the south pole for resources. The mission will include an orbiter, a lander, and a mini-flying probe. Chang'e 8, expected to launch in 2028, will verify in-situ resource development and utilization technologies. It may include a lander, a rover, and a flying detector, as well as a 3D-printing experiment using in situ resource utilization (ISRU) to test-build a structure, It will also transport a small sealed ecosystem experiment. It will test technology necessary to the construction of a lunar science base. Crewed mission phase

, China was reviewing preliminary studies for a crewed lunar landing mission in the 2030s, and possibly building an outpost near the lunar south pole with international cooperation. As of 2023, China's goal is to land astronauts on the Moon by 2030. 2035: International Moon base and application 
In 2021, China and Russia announced they will be building a Moon base together, also formally invited more countries and international organizations to join their International Lunar Research Station (ILRS) project being developed by the two nations, as an alternative to the American Artemis Program. China announced on April 24th the International Lunar Research Station Cooperation Organization  (ILRSCO) and will announce the founding member states in June 2023. List of missions

Conducted missions

Upcoming missions

Key technologies

Long-range TT&C

The biggest challenge in Phase I of the program was the operation of the TT&C system, because its transmission capability needed sufficient range to communicate with the probes in lunar orbit. China's standard satellite telemetry had a range of , but the distance between the Moon and the Earth can exceed  when the Moon is at apogee. In addition, the Chang'e probes had to carry out many attitude maneuvers during their flights to the Moon and during operations in lunar orbit. The distance across China from east to west is , forming another challenge to TT&C continuity. At present, the combination of the TT&C system and the Chinese astronomical observation network has met the needs of the Chang'e program, but only by a small margin. Environmental adaptability
The complexity of the space environment encountered during the Chang'e missions imposed strict requirements for environmental adaptability and reliability of the probes and their instruments. The high-radiation environment in Earth-Moon space required hardened electronics to prevent electromagnetic damage to spacecraft instruments. The extreme temperature range, from  on the side of the spacecraft facing the Sun to  on the side facing away from the Sun, imposed strict requirements for temperature control in the design of the detectors. Orbit design and flight sequence control
Given the conditions of the three-body system of the Earth, Moon and a space probe, the orbit design of lunar orbiters is more complicated than that of Earth-orbiting satellites, which only deal with a two-body system. The Chang'e 1 and Chang'e 2 probes were first sent into highly elliptical Earth orbits. After separating from their launch vehicles, they entered an Earth-Moon transfer orbit through three accelerations in the phase-modulated orbit. These accelerations were conducted 16, 24, and 48 hours into the missions, during which several orbit adjustments and attitude maneuvers were carried out so as to ensure the probes' capture by lunar gravity. After operating in the Earth-Moon orbit for 4–5 days, each probe entered a lunar acquisition orbit. After entering their target orbits, conducting three braking maneuvers and experiencing three different orbit phases, Chang'e 1 and Chang'e 2 carried out their missions. Attitude control
Lunar orbiters have to remain properly oriented with respect to the Earth, Moon and Sun. All onboard detectors must be kept facing the lunar surface in order to complete their scientific missions, communication antennas have to face the Earth in order to receive commands and transfer scientific data, and solar panels must be oriented toward the Sun in order to acquire power. During lunar orbit, the Earth, the Moon and the Sun also move, so attitude control is a complex three-vector control process. The Chang'e satellites need to adjust their attitude very carefully to maintain an optimal angle towards all three bodies.