[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: traditional Chinese medicine herbs mechanism actio | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: traditional Chinese medicine herbs mechanism action]

62. Molecules. 2022 Jan 28;27(3):901. doi: 10.3390/molecules27030901.

Medicine-Food Herbs against Alzheimer's Disease: A Review of Their Traditional 
Functional Features, Substance Basis, Clinical Practices and Mechanisms of 
Action.

Guo P(1)(2), Zhang B(1)(2), Zhao J(1)(2), Wang C(1)(2), Wang Z(1)(2), Liu 
A(1)(2), Du G(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Bioactive Substances and Functions of Natural 
Medicines, Institute of Materia Medica, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences and 
Peking Union Medical College, Beijing 100050, China.
(2)Beijing Key Laboratory of Drug Target Identification and Drug Screening, 
Institute of Materia Medica, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences and Peking 
Union Medical College, Beijing 100050, China.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive, neurodegenerative disorder that 
currently has reached epidemic proportions among elderly populations around the 
world. In China, available traditional Chinese medicines (TCMs) that organically 
combine functional foods with medicinal values are named "Medicine Food Homology 
(MFH)". In this review, we focused on MFH varieties for their traditional 
functional features, substance bases, clinical uses, and mechanisms of action 
(MOAs) for AD prevention and treatment. We consider the antiAD active 
constituents from MFH species, their effects on in vitro/in vivo AD models, and 
their drug targets and signal pathways by summing up the literature via a 
systematic electronic search (SciFinder, PubMed, and Web of Science). In this 
paper, several MFH plant sources are discussed in detail from in vitro/in vivo 
models and methods, to MOAs. We found that most of the MFH varieties exert 
neuroprotective effects and ameliorate cognitive impairments by inhibiting 
neuropathological signs (Aβ-induced toxicity, amyloid precursor protein, and 
phosphorylated Tau immunoreactivity), including anti-inflammation, antioxidative 
stress, antiautophagy, and antiapoptosis, etc. Indeed, some MFH substances and 
their related phytochemicals have a broad spectrum of activities, so they are 
superior to simple single-target drugs in treating chronic diseases. This review 
can provide significant guidance for people's healthy lifestyles and drug 
development for AD prevention and treatment.

DOI: 10.3390/molecules27030901
PMCID: PMC8839204
PMID: 35164167 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.