[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: plant alkaloid biosynthesis pathway elucidation | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: plant alkaloid biosynthesis pathway elucidation]

55. Metab Eng. 2023 May;77:162-173. doi: 10.1016/j.ymben.2023.03.010. Epub 2023
Mar  31.

Pathway elucidation and microbial synthesis of proaporphine and 
bis-benzylisoquinoline alkaloids from sacred lotus (Nelumbo nucifera).

Pyne ME(1), Gold ND(2), Martin VJJ(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, Concordia University, Montréal, Québec, Canada; Centre 
for Applied Synthetic Biology, Concordia University, Montréal, Québec, Canada. 
Electronic address: mpyne3@uwo.ca.
(2)Centre for Applied Synthetic Biology, Concordia University, Montréal, Québec, 
Canada; Concordia Genome Foundry, Concordia University, Montréal, Québec, 
Canada.
(3)Department of Biology, Concordia University, Montréal, Québec, Canada; Centre 
for Applied Synthetic Biology, Concordia University, Montréal, Québec, Canada. 
Electronic address: vincent.martin@concordia.ca.

Sacred lotus (Nelumbo nucifera) has been utilized as a food, medicine, and 
spiritual symbol for nearly 3000 years. The medicinal properties of lotus are 
largely attributed to its unique profile of benzylisoquinoline alkaloids (BIAs), 
which includes potential anti-cancer, anti-malarial and anti-arrhythmic 
compounds. BIA biosynthesis in sacred lotus differs markedly from that of opium 
poppy and other members of the Ranunculales, most notably in an abundance of 
BIAs possessing the (R)-stereochemical configuration and the absence of 
reticuline, a major branchpoint intermediate in most BIA producers. Owing to 
these unique metabolic features and the pharmacological potential of lotus, we 
set out to elucidate the BIA biosynthesis network in N. nucifera. Here we show 
that lotus CYP80G (NnCYP80G) and a superior ortholog from Peruvian nutmeg 
(Laurelia sempervirens; LsCYP80G) stereospecifically convert 
(R)-N-methylcoclaurine to the proaporphine alkaloid glaziovine, which is 
subsequently methylated to pronuciferine, the presumed precursor to nuciferine. 
While sacred lotus employs a dedicated (R)-route to aporphine alkaloids from 
(R)-norcoclaurine, we implemented an artificial stereochemical inversion 
approach to flip the stereochemistry of the core BIA pathway. Exploiting the 
unique substrate specificity of dehydroreticuline synthase from common poppy 
(Papaver rhoeas) and pairing it with dehydroreticuline reductase enabled de novo 
synthesis of (R)-N-methylcoclaurine from (S)-norcoclaurine and its subsequent 
conversion to pronuciferine. We leveraged our stereochemical inversion approach 
to also elucidate the role of NnCYP80A in sacred lotus metabolism, which we show 
catalyzes the stereospecific formation of the bis-BIA nelumboferine. Screening 
our collection of 66 plant O-methyltransferases enabled conversion of 
nelumboferine to liensinine, a potential anti-cancer bis-BIA from sacred lotus. 
Our work highlights the unique benzylisoquinoline metabolism of N. nucifera and 
enables the targeted overproduction of potential lotus pharmaceuticals using 
engineered microbial systems.

Copyright © 2023 International Metabolic Engineering Society. Published by 
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ymben.2023.03.010
PMID: 37004909 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing financial interests The authors 
declare no competing financial interests.