[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: low-level laser therapy wound healing pain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: low-level laser therapy wound healing pain]

69. Semin Cutan Med Surg. 2013 Mar;32(1):35-40.

Body contouring using 635-nm low level laser therapy.

Nestor MS(1), Newburger J, Zarraga MB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology and Cutaneous Surgery, University of Miami Miller 
School of Medicine, Miami, FL, USA. nestormd@admcorp.com

Noninvasive body contouring has become one of the fastest-growing areas of 
esthetic medicine. Many patients appear to prefer nonsurgical less-invasive 
procedures owing to the benefits of fewer side effects and shorter recovery 
times. Increasingly, 635-nm low-level laser therapy (LLLT) has been used in the 
treatment of a variety of medical conditions and has been shown to improve wound 
healing, reduce edema, and relieve acute pain. Within the past decade, LLLT has 
also emerged as a new modality for noninvasive body contouring. Research has 
shown that LLLT is effective in reducing overall body circumference measurements 
of specifically treated regions, including the hips, waist, thighs, and upper 
arms, with recent studies demonstrating the long-term effectiveness of results. 
The treatment is painless, and there appears to be no adverse events associated 
with LLLT. The mechanism of action of LLLT in body contouring is believed to 
stem from photoactivation of cytochrome c oxidase within hypertrophic 
adipocytes, which, in turn, affects intracellular secondary cascades, resulting 
in the formation of transitory pores within the adipocytes' membrane. The 
secondary cascades involved may include, but are not limited to, activation of 
cytosolic lipase and nitric oxide. Newly formed pores release intracellular 
lipids, which are further metabolized. Future studies need to fully outline the 
cellular and systemic effects of LLLT as well as determine optimal treatment 
protocols.

PMID: 24049928 [Indexed for MEDLINE]