[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: traditional Chinese medicine herbs mechanism actio | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: traditional Chinese medicine herbs mechanism action]

75. Public Health Nutr. 2000 Dec;3(4A):515-22. doi: 10.1017/s1368980000000604.

Research and future trends in the pharmaceutical development of medicinal herbs 
from Chinese medicine.

Lee KH(1).

Author information:
(1)Natural Products Laboratory, School of Pharmacy, University of North Carolina 
at Chapel Hill, 27599-7360, USA. khlee@unc.edu.

Issues concerning the past and future development of medicinal herbs from 
Chinese medicine (CM) are addressed in this paper. In the Western world, 
medicinal herbs are becoming increasingly popular and important in the public 
and scientific communities. In contrast to their regulated status in China and 
other countries, herbal medicines are regarded as dietary supplements in the US. 
Accordingly, research must continue worldwide to identify and improve the 
efficacy of the active principals of herbs both singly and in combination -- 
from active ingredients, active fractions, and active herbal formulations. While 
Western medicine currently employs pure, single compounds, either natural or 
synthetic, CM has long used multiple combinations of compounds in the form of 
processed natural products, primarily medicinal herbs, to treat and relieve the 
symptoms of many different human diseases. CM may have fewer and less severe 
side effects than single pure drugs, making CM especially attractive to the 
consumer. In effect, CM's focus on combination therapy does serve both ancient 
and modern theories. However, research using modern analytical and chemical 
techniques is needed to ensure efficacy and safety, to provide qualitative and 
quantitative analyses for dietary supplements, and to develop new, effective and 
safe world-class drugs. Drug design is an iterative process. 
Bioactivity-directed fractionation and isolation identify active natural 
compounds from single herbs or formulations. These lead structures can be 
chemically modified and improved through knowledge of structure--activity 
relationship, mechanism of action, drug metabolism, molecular modelling and 
combinatorial chemistry studies. Finally, efficacy and toxicity determination as 
well as clinical trials can contribute to the generation of new drugs from CM. 
To continue the legacy of CM, as well as the worldwide uses of other medicinal 
herbs, continued investigation of active formulations, bioactive fractions, and 
isolated compounds is critical to drug development in the 21st century.

DOI: 10.1017/s1368980000000604
PMID: 11276300 [Indexed for MEDLINE]