[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: photodynamic therapy cancer clinical trial | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: photodynamic therapy cancer clinical trial]

84. Adv Drug Deliv Rev. 2020 Jan 1;153:54-64. doi: 10.1016/j.addr.2019.11.002.
Epub  2019 Nov 6.

Topical treatments for skin cancer.

Cullen JK(1), Simmons JL(2), Parsons PG(1), Boyle GM(3).

Author information:
(1)Drug Discovery Group, QIMR Berghofer Medical Research Institute, Brisbane, 
Queensland, Australia; School of Biomedical Sciences Faculty of Medicine, 
University of Queensland, Brisbane, Queensland, Australia.
(2)Cancer Drug Mechanisms Group, QIMR Berghofer Medical Research Institute, 
Brisbane, Queensland, Australia; School of Biomedical Sciences, Faculty of 
Health, Queensland University of Technology, Brisbane, Queensland, Australia.
(3)Cancer Drug Mechanisms Group, QIMR Berghofer Medical Research Institute, 
Brisbane, Queensland, Australia; School of Biomedical Sciences Faculty of 
Medicine, University of Queensland, Brisbane, Queensland, Australia; School of 
Biomedical Sciences, Faculty of Health, Queensland University of Technology, 
Brisbane, Queensland, Australia. Electronic address: 
Glen.Boyle@qimrberghofer.edu.au.

Skin cancer is a broad term used to describe a number of different malignant 
indications of the skin. Skin cancers mostly comprise of the keratinocyte 
cancers [Basal Cell Carcinoma (BCC) and cutaneous Squamous Cell Carcinoma 
(SCC)], and melanoma. Surgical excision of these malignancies has been the 
preferred treatment of patients for decades. However, the decision to perform 
surgery can be affected by various considerations, including co-morbidities of 
the patient, the anatomical site of the lesion and potential intolerance for 
repeated excisions. Topical treatment of skin cancer may therefore be more 
appropriate in certain instances. Topical treatment potentially allows for 
higher drug levels at the tumor site, and may result in less overall toxicity 
than systemic agents. This review will specifically address the current agents 
used in topical treatment of skin cancers, and introduce emerging treatments 
from the natural product field that may also find utility in these indications.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.addr.2019.11.002
PMID: 31705912 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest J.M.C. - 
Declaration of interest: recipient of fellowship co-sponsored by QBiotics Group. 
J.L.S. – Declaration of interest: none. P.G.P. - Declaration of interest: 
recipient of contract research funding from QBiotics Group; employee and has 
ownership interests in QBiotics Group. G.M.B. - Declaration of interest: 
recipient of fellowship co-sponsored by QBiotics Group; recipient of contract 
research funding from QBiotics Group.