[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: magnetic resonance spectroscopy metabolite brain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: magnetic resonance spectroscopy metabolite brain]

66. Eur J Radiol. 2017 Jan;86:70-75. doi: 10.1016/j.ejrad.2016.11.005. Epub 2016
Nov  4.

Brain metabolite alterations in Eisenmenger syndrome: Evaluation with MR proton 
spectroscopy.

Dokumacı DŞ(1), Doğan F(2), Yıldırım A(3), Boyacı FN(4), Bozdoğan E(4), Koca 
B(5).

Author information:
(1)Harran University School of Medicine, Department of Radiology, Sanliurfa, 
Turkey. Electronic address: dileksendokumaci@yahoo.com.
(2)Children Hospital, Department of Radiology, Sanliurfa, Turkey.
(3)Children Hospital, Department of Pediatric Cardiology, Sanliurfa, Turkey.
(4)Harran University School of Medicine, Department of Radiology, Sanliurfa, 
Turkey.
(5)Harran University School of Medicine, Department of Pediatric Cardiology, 
Sanliurfa, Turkey.

OBJECTIVE: Eisenmenger syndrome (ES) is a life-threatening disease characterized 
by pulmonary hypertension and cyanosis in patients with congenital heart 
diseases. The aim of this study was to determine the brain metabolite changes in 
Eisenmenger syndrome compared with a control group using MR proton spectroscopy.
METHODS AND MATERIALS: The study included 10 children (3 male, 7 female) with 
congenital heart diseases and a diagnosis of Eisenmenger syndrome. The control 
group consisted of 10 healthy volunteer children. All were examined with a 1.5T 
MRI scanner and single voxel spectroscopy was performed to obtain spectra from 
three different regions; left frontal subcortical white matter, left lentiform 
nucleus and left thalamus. Peak integral values obtained from the spectra were 
used as quantitative data.
RESULTS: The ages of the children with ES were between 5 and 16 years, and 
between 5 and 15 years in the control group. Periventricular white matter 
hyperintensities were observed in 3 patients. On MR spectroscopy study, 
significantly lower levels of Choline metabolite (Cho) were detected in the 
frontal subcortical region and thalamus regions of the patients compared with 
the control group. There was no statistically significant difference between the 
levels of other metabolites (NAA, Cr, mI and Glx). In the lentiform nucleus, 
although the average value of Cho in ES patients was lower than that of the 
control group, it was not statistically significant.
CONCLUSION: Cho metabolite was determined to have an important role in brain 
metabolism in Eisenmenger syndrome patients. Oral Cho treatment may help to 
extend survival.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejrad.2016.11.005
PMID: 28027769 [Indexed for MEDLINE]