[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Complex Circuit Systems | Topic: John H. Hall (inventor) | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# John H. Hall (inventor) — Overview

was settled for a much smaller amount of money and Hall gaining the right to use patents he had received during his time at MPS. Refractory metals such as molybdenum formed the basis for some of Hall's most significant work and later patents. Hall conceived a “merged gate” technology that would dramatically increase the speed of integrated circuits without requiring expensive reductions in semiconductor feature size. In 1987, Hall founded Linear Integrated Systems, Inc., (LIS) a company he led until his death in 2014. LIS developed advanced custom ICs for specific customers, including an advanced hearing aid device, but has more recently focused on small signal discrete semiconductors, particularly ultra-low-noise junction field effect transistors (JFETs). In 1993, while continuing to lead LIS, Hall founded Integrated Wave Technologies, Inc. (IWT) to combine the talents of former Soviet speech recognition engineers he had met with his experience in developing small, low-power electronic devices. Hall conceived of using the compact, effective speech recognition algorithms developed by these scientists in miniaturized, low-power, special-purpose computers. Under a series of Justice Department, Navy and DARPA contracts, IWT developed the Voice Response Translator (VRT) to meet the need for law enforcement and military voice-to-voice translation requirements. Using this approach, the VRT outperformed competing systems in combat operations. With the VRT as its key product, IWT in 2008 was named by Inc Magazine as the 200th Fasting Growing Company in the U.S. Hall continued to produce advanced semiconductors at LIS until his death in 2014. His last development was the LSK489, a JFET that combined ultra-low noise with low input capacitance, useful qualities for audio and other applications. References

American inventors