[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: SEKEM | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# SEKEM — Overview

social entrepreneurship that has had a significant impact on Egyptian society both through its influence on the country's agricultural practices and through its educational and cultural institutions. Furthermore, Dr. Ibrahim Abouleish and his Son Helmy were named Social Entrepreneurs of the year 2003 by the Schwab Foundation for Social Entrepreneurship, and Well known business schools like IESE and CIDA City Campus use various case studies (e.g. Harvard Business Press  to illustrate this novel approach to sustainable social entrepreneurship. Recent visitors included the first lady of Egypt, Suzanne Mubarak, a group from the Fulbright Commission in Egypt, the former Federal Minister of the Interior of Germany, Otto Schily and the founder of the Witten/Herdecke University Dr. Konrad Schily (a former member of the German Bundestag). Motto
Yearly seminars to reflect on the aims and goals of SEKEM have evolved the following motto:
We aim towards living together according to social forms which reflect human dignity and further development, striving towards higher ideals. Our main goal is a developmental impulse for people, society and the earth. SEKEM wants to contribute to the comprehensive development of people, society and the earth, inspired by higher ideals. The cooperation of economic, social and cultural activities is stimulated by science, art and religion. SEKEM has set itself the following goals for the economic sphere:
Healing the earth through biodynamic farming
Development and production of herbal remedies and any kind of product or service which relates to real consumer requirements and has standards of the highest quality. Marketing in associative cooperation between farmers, producers, traders and consumers. We aim to advance the individual development of the person through the cultural institutions. Education towards freedom is the goal of Sekem's educational institutions for children, adolescents and adults. Health care and therapies using natural healing remedies are provided by SEKEM. The SEKEM Academy for Applied Arts and Sciences researches and teaches solutions to pertinent questions from all areas of life. Socially, SEKEM furthers a community of people from all over the world who recognize the dignity of the individual, enabling both learning to work and working to learn, and providing equal rights to all. See also 
 Organic cotton

References

Books and articles about SEKEM
Abouleish, Ibrahim, SEKEM: A Sustainable Community in the Egyptian Desert, 
 "Respecting Human Nature" Al-Ahram Weekly
 "Mephisto in Elysium" Al-Ahram Weekly
 "Ibrahim Abouleish: Vision of Vitality, Engineering a Social Renaissance" Al-Ahram Weekly
 Visscher, Marcus, "Miracle in the desert", Ode, November 2004
 Plans for SEKEM University
 Mair, Johanna; Schoen, Oliver; "Successful social entrepreneurial business models in the context of developing economies: An explorative study", International Journal of Emerging Markets, Volume 2, Number 1, 2007, pp. 54–68(15). Mair, Johanna; Seelos, Christian; 2004 "The SEKEM Initiative"  Case Study - Harvard Business School Publishing
 Elkington,John; Hartigan, Pamela; Power of Unreasonable People: How Social Entrepreneurs Create Markets that Change the World HBS Press Book, 2008
 Amira El Ahl "Wie kommt die Eurythmie in die Wüste?" Spiegel (News Magazine) in German
 UN Global Compact: SEKEM Corporate Responsibility

External links 
 
 blog about a German TV documentary
 Visit SEKEM 

Waldorf schools
Anthroposophy
1977 establishments in Egypt