[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: Joseph Adams (physician) | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Joseph Adams (physician) — Overview

and produced a good summary on the subject. Observations on the Cancerous Breast. Lond. 1801. 8vo. Second edit. 1805. He regards the existence of cysts or hydatids, possessed of a life independent of the subject they grow in, as constituting the true essential character of the true carcinoma. Dr. Baron has since carried the matter farther, and affirms that all tumours take their origin from hydatids. Guide to Madeira. Lond. 1801. 8vo. Second edit. 1808. Answers to all the Objections hitherto made against Cow-pox. Lond. 1805. 8vo. A popular View of Vaccine Inoculation. Lond. 1807. 12mo.Reports of the Royal College of Physicians in London, Dublin, and Edinburgh, on Vaccination; with introductory Remarks, and other Papers. Lond. 1809. 8vo. These being addressed rather to the public than to the profession, are written in a popular style, and served in a measure to allay the anxiety naturally entertained on such an important subject.An Inquiry into the Laws of Epidemics. Lond. 1809. 8vo. In this work, Dr. Adams assists in marking the distinction between contagious and infectious diseases. The first proposal for the establishment of savings banks appears in this volume, Appendix, No. 4.A Republication of one of John Hunter's Treatises, with a Commentary, which possesses no particular claims to notice.An Illustration of Mr. Hunter's Doctrine, particularly concerning the Life of the Blood. Lond. 1811. 8vo. His enthusiastic advocacy of the doctrines of John Hunter, led Dr. Adams to publish this reply to the observations in the Edinburgh Review on Mr. Abernethy's Physiological Lectures.Syllabus of a Course of Lectures on the Institutes and Practice of Medicine. Lond. 1811. 12mo. A Treatise on the Supposed Hereditary Properties of Diseases. Lond. 1814.A Philosophical Treatise on the Hereditary Peculiarities of the Human Race: with Notes illustrative of the subject, particularly in Gout, Scrofula and Madness. Lond. 1814. 8vo. Second edit. 1815. To the latter is attached an Appendix on the Goitres and Cretins of the Alps and Pyrenees, which was originally printed in the London Medical and Physical Journal.Memoirs of the Life and Doctrines of the late John Hunter, Esq. Lond. 1817. 8vo. Second edit. 1818.On Epilepsy''. Lond. 1817. 8vo. This paper, (which is inserted in the Memoirs of the Medical Society of London,) forms a good statement of the imperfection of medical science as it regards epilepsy, its causes, modes of treatment, &c. His success in the cure of acute epilepsy has not been confirmed by subsequent experience. References

1756 births
1818 deaths
18th-century English medical doctors
19th-century English medical doctors
Alumni of the University of Aberdeen
Alumni of St George's, University of London
Alumni of the Medical College of St Bartholomew's Hospital
British pathologists
British surgeons
Fellows of the Linnean Society of London
Proto-evolutionary biologists