[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: Leycesteria formosa | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Leycesteria formosa — Overview

picturesque folkloric name of ghost flute (and also that of 鬼竹子 : Guǐ zhúzi : ghost bamboo) in reference to the eerie piping sounds produced by the broken, hollow stems of the plant when blown upon by the wind. Nowadays in the city, the street lights are so bright, even late at night, but it wasn't like that in the countryside when I was a lad. Moonlit nights weren't so bad, but, when you were out walking and there was no moon, it'd be pitch black and you'd start to imagine all sorts of things... When I was a child and I and a few friends would be walking along beside these bushes,  they'd make the sound of a flute: I would always think that there really was someone playing the flute, but then I'd look around and there'd be no one there. I'd suddenly feel a bit scared and run away. It got to the point where I'd avoid going near the place where those plants grew: If I so much as caught a glimpse of one, I'd beat a hasty retreat. Maybe, in ancient times, people felt the same way and that's why they gave it the name 'ghost flute', although I expect the herb-gatherers at that time were fond of it and didn't let the sound bother them, because they knew that it was such a good medicinal plant. Later, of course, when I grew up and worked out how the plant made the sound, I realised that there was no reason to be afraid of it any more... it's the stems that make the sound, you see - because they're hollow. If the weather's right and you get a good breeze, you'll hear that rich, melodious sound, just like the blowing of a lot of flutes. and - what with all those pretty little bell flowers dancing around in the wind as well - you'd think the ghosts were blowing on them too... In addition to the above, L.formosa has acquired a wealth of common names in the Chinese language, including:
 风吹箫   : Fēng chuī xiāo : Wind(-blown) flute
 夜吹箫 : Yè chuī xiāo : Night(-blowing) flute
 大追风 : Dà zhuī fēng : Big chase wind
 炮筒花   : Pào tǒng huā : Gun barrel flower
 炮竹筒 : Pào zhútǒng : Firecracker (Pào  'gun' + zhútǒng 'bamboo tube')
 炮仗筒 : Pàozhang tǒng : Firecracker (Pàozhang 'gun battle' + tǒng 'tube')
 火炮花   : Huǒpào huā : Artillery flower
 金鸡一把锁 : Jīnjī yī bǎ suǒ : Golden rooster lock
 空心木   : Kōngxīn mù :  Hollow wood
 空心草 : Kōngxīn cǎo : Hollow grass
 大笔杆草 : Dà bǐgǎn cǎo : Big pen grass/Big-stalked grass
 来色木   : Lái shǎi mù : (Come) colour wood
 大木比替力 : Dà mù bǐ tì lì : Big wood that is a substitute for strength
 鬼竹子 : Guǐ zhúzi : Ghost bamboo
 梅叶竹   : Méi yè zhú : Plum-leaved bamboo
 野芦柴   :Yě Lú chái : Wild reed firewood
 磨倮子 : Mó luǒ zi : Grinding naked seed
 猴橘子 : Hóu júzi : Monkey orange
These names refer mostly to the tubular (fistular) form of the stems, their similarity to those of bamboos and their suitability for wind instruments - as suggested by their natural tendency to whistle eerily in the wind. Those referring to (again, tubular) guns and fireworks indicate that the jointed stems of the plant explode (crack / pop) when burnt, like those of bamboo (the popping stems of which the first fireworks were manufactured to mimic ). Only one common name (Hóu júzi 'Monkey orange') references the shrub's edible berries, and does so in a somewhat disparaging manner. The curious name Jīnjī yī bǎ suǒ, translating as 'Golden rooster lock' suggests that the plant was thought to relate in some way to the good luck / wealth-bringing symbol of the golden cockerel. Other uses 
The hollow canes produced by L. formosa have been used in India to make whistles and flutes. Other uses of the plant in North India (states Assam, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir (union territory), Ladakh and Sikkim) are as a green manure and as firewood. Animal toxicity 
While many sources assert that L. formosa is not toxic, there have been associated deaths of cattle reported in New Zealand and Australia, where the plant is a rampant weed, and thus the plant is best considered suspect until more conclusive evidence comes to light. Leaves and unripe berries are likely to have been the plant parts browsed. Chemistry 
L. formosa has yielded coumarins, monomeric flavonoids and the two biflavonoid compounds amentoflavone (3'-8" biapigenin) and its 4"'methyl derivative podocarpusflavone A. Amentoflavone and, to some extent, podocarpusflavone A  are good cAMP phosphodiesterase-4 inhibitors. In the light of these findings L. formosa may be considered of potential interest in the treatment of dermatitis. Prior to the isolation of amentoflavone from Leycesteria, the only genera of Caprifoliaceae in which the compound was known to occur were Viburnum and Lonicera. (Note: the genus Viburnum is now placed, not in Caprifoliaceae, but in the related family Adoxaceae). The leaves of L. formosa have been found to contain leucoanthocyanins, while the wood contains the fluorescent lactone aesculetin. Gallery

References

External links
Checklist of the Flowering Plants of Nepal: Leycesteria formosa

Caprifoliaceae
Flora of temperate Asia
Garden plants of Asia
Medicinal plants of Asia
Edible fruits
Weeds
Flora of West Himalaya
Flora of West Tropical Africa
Flora of West-Central Tropical Africa
Flora of Northeast Tropical Africa
Flora of East Tropical Africa
Flora of South Tropical Africa
Flora of Southern Africa
Flora of Madagascar
Flora of India (region)
Flora of Sri Lanka
Flora of Pakistan
Flora of Nepal
Flora of Bhutan
Flora of Sikkim
Flora of Arunachal Pradesh
Flora of East Himalaya
Flora of Assam (region)
Flora of Tibet
Flora of China
Flora of Myanmar
Articles containing Chinese-language text
Taxa named by Nathaniel Wallich