[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: biomaterial implant osseointegration titanium clin | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: biomaterial implant osseointegration titanium clinical]

83. J Biomed Mater Res B Appl Biomater. 2024 Apr;112(4):e35403. doi: 
10.1002/jbm.b.35403.

Improving osseointegration and antimicrobial properties of titanium implants 
with black phosphorus nanosheets-hydroxyapatite composite coatings for 
vascularized bone regeneration.

Ma S(1), Sun R(1), Wang Y(1), Wei Y(1)(2), Xu H(1), Liu X(1), Liang Z(1)(2), 
Zhao L(1)(2), Hu Y(1)(2), Lian X(1)(2), Guo M(3), Huang D(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Research Center for Nano-biomaterials & 
Regenerative Medicine, College of Biomedical Engineering, Taiyuan University of 
Technology, Taiyuan, People's Republic of China.
(2)Shanxi-Zheda Institute of Advanced Materials and Chemical Engineering, 
Taiyuan, People's Republic of China.
(3)Department of Fundamental Mechanics, College of Mechanical and Vehicle 
Engineering, Taiyuan University of Technology, Taiyuan, People's Republic of 
China.

For decades, titanium implants have shown impressive advantages in bone repair. 
However, the preparation of implants with excellent antimicrobial properties as 
well as better osseointegration ability remains difficult for clinical 
application. In this study, black phosphorus nanosheets (BPNSs) were doped into 
hydroxyapatite (HA) coatings using electrophoretic deposition. The coatings' 
surface morphology, roughness, water contact angle, photothermal properties, and 
antibacterial properties were investigated. The BP/HA coating exhibited a 
surface roughness of 59.1 nm, providing an ideal substrate for cell attachment 
and growth. The water contact angle on the BP/HA coating was measured to be 
approximately 8.55°, indicating its hydrophilic nature. The BPNSs demonstrated 
efficient photothermal conversion, with a temperature increase of 42.2°C under 
laser irradiation. The BP/HA composite coating exhibited a significant reduction 
in bacterial growth, with inhibition rates of 95.6% and 96.1% against 
Staphylococcus aureus and Escherichia coli. In addition, the cytocompatibility 
of the composite coating was evaluated by cell adhesion, CCK8 and AM/PI 
staining; the effect of the composite coating in promoting angiogenesis was 
assessed by scratch assay, transwell assay, and protein blotting; and the 
osteoinductivity of the composite coating was evaluated by alkaline phosphatase 
assay, alizarin red staining, and Western blot. The results showed that the 
BP/HA composite coating exhibited superior performance in promoting biological 
functions such as cell proliferation and adhesion, antibacterial activity, 
osteogenic differentiation, and angiogenesis, and had potential applications in 
vascularized bone regeneration.

© 2024 Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/jbm.b.35403
PMID: 38520706 [Indexed for MEDLINE]