[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Complex Circuit Systems | Topic: Arduino | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Arduino — Overview

to the Classic Arduino IDE) and Pro Mode (File System view) New Board Manager New Library Manager Board List Basic Auto-Completion (Arm targets only) Git Integration Serial Monitor Dark Mode Sketch A sketch is a program written with the Arduino IDE. Sketches are saved on the development computer as text files with the file extension .ino. Arduino Software (IDE) pre-1.0 saved sketches with the extension .pde. A minimal Arduino C/C++ program consists of only two functions:
 : This function is called once when a sketch starts after power-up or reset. It is used to initialize variables, input and output pin modes, and other libraries needed in the sketch. It is analogous to the function . : After  function exits (ends), the  function is executed repeatedly in the main program. It controls the board until the board is powered off or is reset. It is analogous to the function . Blink example

Most Arduino boards contain a light-emitting diode (LED) and a current-limiting resistor connected between pin 13 and ground, which is a convenient feature for many tests and program functions. A typical program used by beginners, akin to Hello, World!, is "blink", which repeatedly blinks the on-board LED integrated into the Arduino board. This program uses the functions , , and , which are provided by the internal libraries included in the IDE environment. This program is usually loaded into a new Arduino board by the manufacturer. const int LED_PIN = 13;             // Pin number attached to LED. void setup() {
    pinMode(LED_PIN, OUTPUT);       // Configure pin 13 to be a digital output. }

void loop() {
    digitalWrite(LED_PIN, HIGH);    // Turn on the LED. delay(1000);                    // Wait 1 second (1000 milliseconds). digitalWrite(LED_PIN, LOW);     // Turn off the LED. delay(1000);                    // Wait 1 second. }

Libraries
The open-source nature of the Arduino project has facilitated the publication of many free software libraries that other developers use to augment their projects. Operating systems/threading
There is a Xinu OS port for the atmega328p (Arduino Uno and others with the same chip), which includes most of the basic features. The source code of this version is freely available. There is also a threading tool, named Protothreads. Protothreads are described as "extremely lightweight stackless threads designed for severely memory constrained systems, such as small embedded systems or wireless sensor network nodes. There is a port of FreeRTOS for the Arduino. This is available from the IDE version 1.x Library Manager. It is compatible with a number of boards, including the Uno. Applications
 Arduboy, a handheld game console based on Arduino
 Arduinome, a MIDI controller device that mimics the Monome
 Ardupilot, drone software and hardware
 ArduSat, a cubesat based on Arduino
 C-STEM Studio, a platform for hands-on integrated learning of computing, science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (C-STEM) with robotics
 Data loggers for scientific research
 OBDuino, a trip computer that uses the on-board diagnostics interface found in most modern cars
 OpenEVSE an open-source electric vehicle charger
 XOD, a visual programming language for Arduino

Simulation
 Tinkercad, an analog and digital simulator supporting Arduino Simulation, which is most commonly used to create 3D models
 Wokwi, a digital and free to use simulator for Arduino boards

Recognitions
The Arduino project received an honorary mention in the Digital Communities category at the 2006 Prix Ars Electronica. The Arduino Engineering Kit won the Bett Award for "Higher Education or Further Education Digital Services" in 2020. See also

 List of Arduino boards and compatible systems
 List of open-source hardware projects

Explanatory notes

References

Further reading

External links

 
 How Arduino is open sourcing imagination, a TED talk by creator Massimo Banzi
 Evolution tree for Arduino
 Arduino Cheat Sheet
 Arduino Dimensions and Hole Patterns
 Arduino Shield Template
 Arduino Board Pinout Diagrams: Due, Esplora, Leonardo, Mega, Micro, Mini, Pro Micro, Pro Mini, Uno, Yun

 Historical
 Arduino – The Documentary (2010): IMDb, Vimeo
 Massimo Banzi interviews: Triangulation 110, FLOSS 61
 Untold History of Arduino – Hernando Barragán
 Lawsuit documents from Arduino LLC vs. Arduino S.R.L. et al. – United States Courts Archive

 
Microcontrollers
Open hardware electronic devices
Robotics hardware
Computer-related introductions in 2005
Physical computing
Italian inventions