[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: photodynamic therapy cancer clinical trial | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: photodynamic therapy cancer clinical trial]

78. RETRACTED ARTICLE

Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2010 Jan 20;2010(1):CD004060. doi: 
10.1002/14651858.CD004060.pub2.

Treatment for Barrett's oesophagus.

Rees JR(1), Lao-Sirieix P, Wong A, Fitzgerald RC.

Author information:
(1)MRC Cancer Cell Unit, Hutchison/MRC Research Centre, Hills Road, Cambridge, 
UK, CB22 2XZ.

Retraction in
    Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2021 Mar 4;3:CD004060. doi: 
10.1002/14651858.CD004060.pub3.

BACKGROUND: Treatments for Barrett's oesophagus, the precursor lesion of 
adenocarcinoma, are available but whether these therapies effectively prevent 
the development of adenocarcinoma, and in some cases eradicate the Barrett's 
oesophagus segment, remains unclear.
OBJECTIVES: To summarise, quantify and compare the efficacy of pharmacological, 
surgical and endoscopic treatments for the eradication of dysplastic and 
non-dysplastic Barrett's oesophagus and prevention of these states from 
progression to adenocarcinoma.
SEARCH STRATEGY: We searched CENTRAL (The Cochrane Library 2004, issue 4), 
MEDLINE (1966 to June 2008) and EMBASE (1980 to June 2008).
SELECTION CRITERIA: Randomised controlled trials (RCTs) comparing medical, 
endoscopic or non-resectional surgical treatments for Barrett's oesophagus. The 
primary outcome measures were complete eradication of Barrett's and dysplasia at 
12 months, and reduction in the number of patients progressing to cancer at five 
years or latest time point.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Three authors independently extracted data and 
assessed the quality of the trials included in the analysis.
MAIN RESULTS: Sixteen studies, including 1074 patients, were included. The mean 
number of participants in the studies was small (n = 49; range 8 to 208). Most 
studies did not report on the primary outcomes. Medical and surgical 
interventions to reduce symptoms and sequelae of gastro-oesophageal reflux 
disease (GORD) did not induce significant eradication of Barrett's oesophagus or 
dysplasia. Endoscopic therapies (photodynamic therapy (PDT with aminolevulinic 
acid or porfimer sodium), argon plasma coagulation (APC) and radiofrequency 
ablation (RFA)) all induced regression of Barrett's oesophagus and dysplasia. 
The data for photodynamic therapy were heterogeneous with a mean eradication 
rate of 51% for Barrett's oesophagus and between 56% and 100% for dysplasia, 
depending on the treatment regimens. The variation in photodynamic therapy 
eradication rates for dysplasia was dependent on the drug, source and dose of 
light. Radiofrequency ablation resulted in eradication rates of 82% and 94% for 
Barrett's oesophagus and dysplasia respectively, compared to a sham treatment. 
Endoscopic treatments were generally well tolerated, however all were associated 
with some buried glands, particularly following argon plasma coagulation and 
photodynamic therapy, as well as photosensitivity and strictures induced by 
porfimer sodium based photodynamic therapy in particular.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: Despite their failure to eradicate Barrett's oesophagus, 
the role of medical and surgical interventions to reduce the troubling symptoms 
and sequelae of GORD is not questioned. Whether therapies for GORD reduce the 
cancer risk is not yet known. Ablative therapies have an increasing role in the 
management of dysplasia within Barrett's and current data would favour the use 
of radiofrequency ablation compared with photodynamic therapy. Radiofrequency 
ablation has been shown to yield significantly fewer complications than 
photodynamic therapy and is very efficacious at eradicating both dysplasia and 
Barrett's itself. However, long-term follow-up data are still needed before 
radiofrequency ablation can be used in routine clinical care without the need 
for very careful post-treatment surveillance. More clinical trial data and in 
particular randomised controlled trials are required to assess whether or not 
the cancer risk is reduced in routine clinical practice.

DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD004060.pub2
PMCID: PMC7163253
PMID: 20091557 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Jonathan Rees, Pierre Lao‐Sirieix and Rebecca 
Fitzgerald are funded by the Medical Research Council. Jonathan Rees has also 
received research funding awards from the Royal College of Surgeons of Edinburgh 
and Cancer Research UK. Rebecca Fitzgerald has occasionally acted as a 
consultant to Astra Zeneca and has research collaboration with Merck and 
GlaxoSmithKline.