[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: Charaka Samhita | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Charaka Samhita — Overview

The Charaka Samhita (, “Compendium of Charaka”) is a Sanskrit text on Ayurveda (Indian traditional medicine). Along with the Sushruta Samhita, it is one of the two foundational  texts of this field that have survived from ancient India. It is one of the three works that constitute the Brhat Trayi. The text is based on the Agnivesha Samhitā, an eighth century BCE encyclopedic medical compendium by Agniveśa. It was revised by Charaka between 100 BCE and 200 CE and renamed Charaka Samhitā. The pre-2nd century CE text consists of eight books and one hundred and twenty chapters. It describes ancient theories on human body, etiology, symptomology and therapeutics for a wide range of diseases. The Charaka Samhita also includes sections on the importance of diet, hygiene, prevention, medical education, and the teamwork of a physician, nurse and patient necessary for recovery to health. Authorship

The Charaka Samhita states that the content of the book was first taught by Atreya, and then subsequently codified by Agniveśa, revised by Charaka, and the manuscripts that survive into the modern era are based on one completed by Dṛḍhabala. Dṛḍhabala stated in the Charaka Samhita that he had to write one third of the book himself because this portion  had been lost, and that he also re-wrote the last part of the book. Based on textual analysis, and the literal meaning of the Sanskrit word charak, Chattopadhyay speculated that charak does not refer to one person but multiple people. Vishwakarma and Goswami state that the text exists in many versions and entire chapters are missing in some versions. Date
Dates of composition of the Charaka Samhita are uncertain. Meulenbeld's History of Indian Medical Literature dates it to be between fourth century BCE to the second century CE, with Charaka's compilation likely between 100 BCE and 200 CE. The Dṛḍhabala revision and completion, the source of current texts, is dated to the 6th century CE. Roots
In Sanskrit,  is a term for a wanderer, sannyasi (ascetic), and sometimes used in the context of the ancient tradition of wandering physicians who brought their medical expertise and magico-religious rites from village to village. Surendranath Dasgupta states that the medical tradition of wandering physicians are traceable to the Atharvaveda, particularly the  Caranavaidya shakha – one of the nine known shakha of Atharvaveda-based Vedic schools. The name of this school literally means "wandering physicians". Their texts have not survived into the modern era, but manuscripts from two competing schools – Paippalada and Saunakiya, have. The Atharvaveda contains chapters relating to medicine, surgery and magico-religious rites. This Atharvaveda layer of text was likely compiled contemporaneously with Samaveda and Yajurveda, in about 1200 BCE–1000 BCE. Dasgupta and other scholars state that the Atreya-Charaka school and its texts may have emerged from this older tradition, and he cites a series of Atharvaveda hymns to show that almost all organs and nomenclature found in Charaka Samhita are also found in the Vedic hymns. Contents

The extant text has eight  (books), totalling 120 chapters. The text includes a table of contents embedded in its verses, stating the names and describing the nature of the eight books, followed by a listing of the 120 chapters. These eight books are
 Sutra Sthana (General principles) -  30 chapters deal with general principles, philosophy, definitions, prevention through healthy living, and the goals of the text. It is divided into quadruplets of 7, making it 28 with 2 concluding chapters. Nidana Sthana (Pathology) -  8 chapters on causes of diseases. Vimana Sthana (Specific determination) 8 chapters contain training of a physician, ethics of medical practice, pathology, diet and nourishment, taste of medicines. Śarira Sthana (Anatomy) - 8 chapters describe embryology & anatomy of a human body (with a section on other living beings). Indriya Sthana (Sensory organ based prognosis) - 12 chapters elaborate on diagnosis & prognosis, mostly based on sensory response of the patient. Cikitsa Sthana (Therapeutics) - 30 chapters deal with medicines and treatment of diseases. Kalpa Sthana (Pharmaceutics and toxicology) - 12 chapters describe pharmacy, the preparation and dosage of medicine, signs of their abuse, and dealing with poisons. Siddhi Sthana (Success in treatment) - 12 chapters describe signs of cure, hygiene and healthier living. Seventeen chapters of Cikitsā sthāna and complete Kalpa sthāna and Siddhi sthāna were added later by Dṛḍhabala. The text starts with Sūtra sthāna which deals with fundamentals and basic principles of Ayurveda practice. Unique scientific contributions credited to the  include:
 a rational approach to the causation and cure of disease
 introduction of objective methods of clinical examination

Physician, nurse, patient and medicines
The text asserts that there are four important parts to medical practice – the patient, the physician, the nurse and the medicines.