[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: Graphene nanoribbon | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Graphene nanoribbon — Overview

greater mechanical properties comparing to the value of 130 GPa and 25% experimentally measured on monolayer graphene. As expected, graphene nanoribbons with smaller width would completely break down faster, since the ratio of the weaker edged bonds increased. While the tensile strain on graphene nanoribbons reached its maximum, C-C bonds would start to break and then formed much bigger rings to make materials weaker until fracture. Optical properties 
The earliest numerical results on the optical properties of graphene nanoribbons were obtained by Lin and Shyu in 2000. The different selection rules for optical transitions in graphene nanoribbons with armchair and zigzag edges were reported. These results were supplemented by a comparative study of zigzag nanoribbons with single wall armchair carbon nanotubes by Hsu and Reichl in 2007. It was demonstrated that selection rules in zigzag ribbons are different from those in carbon nanotube and the eigenstates in zigzag ribbons can be classified as either symmetric or antisymmetric. Also, it was predicted that edge states should play an important role in the optical absorption of zigzag nanoribbons. Optical transitions between the edge and bulk states should enrich the low-energy region ( eV) of the absorption spectrum by strong absorption peaks. Analytical derivation of the numerically obtained selection rules was presented in 2011,. The selection rule for the incident light polarized longitudinally to the zigzag ribbon axis is that  is odd, where  and  number the energy bands, while for the perpendicular polarization  is even. Intraband (intersubband) transitions between the conduction (valence) sub-bands are also allowed if  is even. For graphene nanoribbons with armchair edges the selection rule is . Similar to tubes transitions intersubband transitions are forbidden for armchair graphene nanoribbons. Despite different selection rules in single wall armchair carbon nanotubes and zigzag graphene nanoribbons a hidden correlation of the absorption peaks is predicted. The correlation of the absorption peaks in tubes and ribbons should take place when the number of atoms in the tube unit cell   is related to the number of atoms in the zigzag ribbon unit cell  as follows: , which is so-called matching condition for the periodic and hard wall boundary conditions. These results obtained within the nearest-neighbor approximation of the tight-binding model have been corroborated with first principles density functional theory calculations taking into account exchange and correlation effects. First-principle calculations with quasiparticle corrections and many-body effects explored the electronic and optical properties of graphene-based materials. With GW calculation, the properties of graphene-based materials are accurately investigated, including graphene nanoribbons, edge and surface functionalized armchair graphene nanoribbons and scaling properties in armchair graphene nanoribbons. Analyses 
Graphene nanoribbons can be analyzed by scanning tunneling microscope, Raman spectroscopy, infrared spectroscopy, and X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy. For example, out-of-plane bending vibration of one C-H on one benzene ring, called SOLO, which is similar to zigzag edge, on zigzag GNRs has been reported to appear at 899 cm−1, whereas that of two C-H on one benzene ring, called DUO, which is similar to armchair edge, on armchair GNRs has been reported to appear at 814 cm−1 as results of calculated IR spectra. However, analyses of graphene nanoribbon on substrates are difficult using infrared spectroscopy even with a Reflection Absorption Spectrometry method. Thus, a large quantity of graphene nanoribbon is necessary for infrared spectroscopy analyses. Reactivity 

Zigzag edges are known to be more reactive than armchair edges, as observed in the dehydrogenation reactivities between the compound with zigzag edges (tetracene) and armchair edges (chrysene). Also, zigzag edges tends to be more oxidized than armchair edges without gasification. The zigzag edges with longer length can be more reactive as it can be seen from the dependence of the length of acenes on the reactivity. Applications

Polymeric nanocomposites 

Graphene nanoribbons and their oxidized counterparts called graphene oxide nanoribbons have been investigated as nano-fillers to improve the mechanical properties of polymeric nanocomposites. Increases in the mechanical properties of epoxy composites on loading of graphene nanoribbons were observed. An increase in the mechanical properties of biodegradable polymeric nanocomposites of poly(propylene fumarate) at low weight percentage was achieved by loading of oxidized graphene nanoribbons, fabricated for bone tissue engineering applications. Contrast agent for bioimaging 

Hybrid imaging modalities, such as photoacoustic (PA) tomography (PAT) and thermoacoustic (TA) tomography (TAT) have been developed for bioimaging applications. PAT/TAT combines advantages of pure ultrasound and pure optical imaging/radio frequency (RF), providing good spatial resolution, great penetration depth and high soft-tissue contrast.