[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: List of Burmese Muslims | Type: Instruction-QA | Level: Graduate]

Question: Provide a comprehensive expert-level explanation of List of Burmese Muslims in the context of Applied Sciences.

Answer:
Muslims arrived in Burma as travelers, adventurers, pioneers, sailors, traders, military personnel (voluntary and mercenary), and a number of them as prisoners of wars. Some were reported to have taken refuge from wars, monsoon storms and weather, shipwreck and for a number of other circumstances. Some are victims of forced slavery but many of them are professionals and skilled personnel such as advisors to the kings and at various ranks of administration whilst others are port-authorities and mayors and traditional medicine men. Burmese Muslims have been serving their adopted country in various positions.

List of prominent Burmese Muslims 
Saya Gyi U Nu 
Saya Gyi U Nu (Great Teacher or Guru; 1762–1822) Mayor of Yammar Watti, Shwe Taung Thargathu also known as Mohamed Kassim was a very famous Burmese Muslim writer during King Bodawpaya. He wrote or translated many Islamic religious books. He used Pali and other words and terms from the Burmese religious literature to Burmanise the Islamic literature. Combined with his flowery, poetic Burmese writing, his books are regarded as Myanmar Muslims’ classics. Bodawpaya appointed him as the head of the mission to India to collect and bring back books and Scriptures in Sanskrit, Hindi, Urdu and Persian. Saya Gyi U Nu was appointed as the Mayor of Yammar Wati with the Shwe Taung Tharga title. But recent military rulers prohibited the Muslims from using these Pali words and terms in Islamic religious books.

U Razak 
U Razak (20 January 1898 – 19 July 1947; Arabic: Abdul Razak) was a Burmese politician who was a respected educationalist. While his brothers and sisters chose to be Buddhists, he maintained the Muslim name Razak, in honor of his father. Being Nominally Muslim, Razak was a secularist who deeply loved Burma and encouraged unity in diversity. Razak initiated calls for unity between Burmese Muslims and Buddhists. He was a Muslim and maintained ties to Buddhism, educating himself on Pali, the sacred script of Theravada Buddhism, and helped found the Mandalay College (modern Mandalay University). Razak fathered three children.
He was a minister at Aung Sann's pre-independence interim government and was assassinated, along with Aung San and other members, on 19 July 1947. July 19 is celebrated in Myanmar today as Martyrs' Day. U Razak was Minister of Education and National Planning, and was chairman of the Burma Muslim Congress.

Wazir U Kan Gyi (1870-1960)

Educated in Bombay, Kanji made Burma his home and adopted the Burmese name Kan Gyi. He was given the title of Wazir by his Highness the Aga Khan.  He was a wealthy, influential business man who devoted himself to social causes and philanthropy.

Maung Thaw Ka or Major Ba Thaw
Maung Thaw Ka or Major Ba Thaw (1928–1991) from Navy was a very prominent writer and pioneer NLD leader died in SPDC jail. He was buried at Kandaw Gale Sunni cemetery.

U Shwe Yoe aka U Ba Ga Lay
U Shwe Yoe (1890-1945) was a Burmese Muslim named, U Ba Ga Lay. He was the pioneer famous Cartoonist, Actor, Comedian and dancer

U Shwe Yoe dance was U Ba Ga Lay's jolly joker dance sequence in, "Ah Ba Yae" (Oh Ah Ba. Ah Ba means old man or father in Burmese) which was one of the pioneer films of Myanmar movie history about rural life. The dance is full of fun and joy and it appealed so much to the Myanmar audience and is adopted as a dance for all festive occasions.

Colonel Ba Shin
Colonel Ba Shin a noted historian was later a member of The Myanmar History Commission, UTC and Islamic Religious Affairs Council.

Tun Tun Min
Tun Tun Min is a Burmese Muslim Lethwei fighter, former Openweight Lethwei World Champion.

Kyar Ba Nyein and family members
Kyar Ba Nyein was a Burmese Muslim Lethwei fighter who represented Burma in the 1952 Summer Olympic Games in Boxing. He successfully trained a lot of boxers and rejuvenated Myanmar traditional boxing.

Win Nyein (the eldest son of Kyar (Tiger) Ba Nyein)
Win Nyein is a prominent writer and chief editor of the long-lasting Myanmar Literary Magazine "Shwe Ahmhutay".

Myo Myint Nyein (the fourth son of Kyar Ba Nyein)
Myo Myint Nyein is the writer and editor of many Myanmar magazines and journals such as the Veterans Magazine in 1977,  Pay-phoo-lwar magazine, the Ma-hay-the Magazine (1983), the Cinema Essence magazine (1984), the News Magazine (1984) and the News Journal (1985). He was active in democracy movements in 1988, worked as communication and information sector of National League for Democracy Party. He was imprisoned for 7 years in 1989 because he published a poem " What is happening" by Min Lu. He was unstoppable and kept working on freedom of expression in prison later his prison sentence was extended for seven more years. He was awarded of Freedom to Write Award by the Canadian Journalists for Freedom of Expression (CJFE) in 2001 and recognised as an honorary member of PEN International. He was released on 13 February 2002 under amnesty. He and his colleagues tried to take up Myanmar PEN center in 2013. He was elected as a board member and currently he is the President of PEN Myanmar Center. He publishes the Info-Digest bi-monthly news digest journal.

Karim Ghani
Karim Ghani was born in Sothugudi, Ilayangudi, a politician in South-East Asia of Indian origin Karim Ghani. Before the Second World War Karim Ghani was a parliamentary secretary in Burma under Dr. Ba Maw.

U Raschid
U Raschid, an Indian Myanmar Muslim, was active in the student movement against the ruling British. He was the first general secretary of the Rangoon University Students’ Union in 1931 together with prominent Myanmar political leaders: Aung San, U Nu, U Kyaw Nyein, U Ba Swe etc. U Nu was the first president of the Rangoon University Students Union (RUSU)in 1935-1936 with Mr. M. A. Rashid as Vice-President and U Thi Han as the General Secretary.

U Raschid was the president of the All Burma Students’ Union, while being concurrently president of the Rangoon University Students' Union in 1936 - 1937.