[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: traditional Chinese medicine herbs mechanism actio | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: traditional Chinese medicine herbs mechanism action]

42. J Ethnopharmacol. 2024 Dec 5;335:118641. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2024.118641. Epub
 2024 Jul 29.

Underlying mechanisms of traditional Chinese medicine in the prevention and 
treatment of diabetic retinopathy: Evidences from molecular and clinical 
studies.

Li Z(1), Hu F(1), Xiong L(1), Zhou X(1), Dong C(2), Zheng Y(3).

Author information:
(1)Anhui University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, College of Traditional 
Chinese Medicine, Hefei, China.
(2)The Second Clinical Medical School, Anhui University of Traditional Chinese 
Medicine, Hefei, China.
(3)Anhui University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, College of Traditional 
Chinese Medicine, Hefei, China. Electronic address: zhengyujiao@ahtcm.edu.cn.

As one of the most serious microvascular complications of diabetes mellitus 
(DM), diabetic retinopathy (DR) can cause visual impairment and even blindness. 
With the rapid increase in the prevalence of DM, the incidence of DR is also 
rising year by year. Preventing and effectively treating DR has become a major 
focus in the medical field. Traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) has a wealth of 
experience in treating DR and has achieved significant results with various 
herbs and TCM prescriptions. Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM) provides a 
comprehensive therapeutic strategy for diabetic retinopathy (DR), encompassing 
anti-inflammatory and antioxidant actions, anti-neovascularization, 
neuroprotection, regulation of glucose metabolism, and inhibition of apoptosis. 
This review provides an overview of the current status of TCM treatment for DR 
in recent years, including experimental studies and clinical researches, to 
explore the clinical efficacy and the underlying modern mechanisms of herbs and 
TCM prescriptions. Besides, we also discussed the challenges TCM faces in 
treating DR, such as drug-drug interactions among TCM components and the lack of 
high-quality evidence-based medicine practice, which pose significant obstacles 
to TCM's application in DR.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2024.118641
PMID: 39084273 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.