[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: traditional Chinese medicine herbs mechanism actio | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: traditional Chinese medicine herbs mechanism action]

65. Front Med (Lausanne). 2023 Aug 28;10:1235081. doi: 10.3389/fmed.2023.1235081.
 eCollection 2023.

Mechanisms of action and synergetic formulas of plant-based natural compounds 
from traditional Chinese medicine for managing osteoporosis: a literature 
review.

Zhou C(1), Shen S(1), Zhang M(1), Luo H(2), Zhang Y(3), Wu C(1), Zeng L(4), Ruan 
H(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Orthopaedics and Traumatology, The First Affiliated Hospital of 
Zhejiang Chinese Medical University (Zhejiang Provincial Hospital of Traditional 
Chinese Medicine), Hangzhou, China.
(2)Department of Pharmacy, The Second Affiliated Hospital, Zhejiang University 
School of Medicine, Hangzhou, China.
(3)Hangzhou Fuyang Hospital of TCM Orthopedics and Traumatology, Hangzhou, 
China.
(4)Guangdong Provincial Hospital of Chinese Medicine, Guangzhou University of 
Chinese Medicine, Guangzhou, China.

Osteoporosis (OP) is a systemic skeletal disease prevalent in older adults, 
characterized by substantial bone loss and deterioration of microstructure, 
resulting in heightened bone fragility and risk of fracture. Traditional Chinese 
Medicine (TCM) herbs have been widely employed in OP treatment owing to their 
advantages, such as good tolerance, low toxicity, high efficiency, and minimal 
adverse reactions. Increasing evidence also reveals that many plant-based 
compounds (or secondary metabolites) from these TCM formulas, such as 
resveratrol, naringin, and ginsenoside, have demonstrated beneficial effects in 
reducing the risk of OP. Nonetheless, the comprehensive roles of these natural 
products in OP have not been thoroughly clarified, impeding the development of 
synergistic formulas for optimal OP treatment. In this review, we sum up the 
pathological mechanisms of OP based on evidence from basic and clinical 
research; emphasis is placed on the in vitro and preclinical in vivo 
evidence-based anti-OP mechanisms of TCM formulas and their chemically active 
plant constituents, especially their effects on imbalanced bone homeostasis 
regulated by osteoblasts (responsible for bone formation), osteoclasts 
(responsible for bone resorption), bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells as well as 
bone microstructure, angiogenesis, and immune system. Furthermore, we 
prospectively discuss the combinatory ingredients from natural products from 
these TCM formulas. Our goal is to improve comprehension of the pharmacological 
mechanisms of TCM formulas and their chemically active constituents, which could 
inform the development of new strategies for managing OP.

Copyright © 2023 Zhou, Shen, Zhang, Luo, Zhang, Wu, Zeng and Ruan.

DOI: 10.3389/fmed.2023.1235081
PMCID: PMC10493415
PMID: 37700771

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.