[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: Herbals: Their Origin and Evolution — Arber | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Herbals: Their Origin and Evolution — Arber — Overview

last resting place. There is but one key to the victory. The two vessels were, as nearly as possible, equals in size, speed, armament and crew, and the contest was decided by the superiority of the 11-inch Dahlgren guns of the Kearsarge, over the Blakely rifle and the vaunted 68-pounder of the Alabama, in conjunction with the greater coolness and surer aim of the former's crew. The Kearsarge was not, as represented, specially armed and manned for
destroying her foe; but is in every respect similar to all the vessels of
her class (third-rate) in the United States Navy. Moreover, the large
majority of her officers are from the merchant service. The French at Cherbourg were by no means dilatory in recognizing the value
of these Dahlgren guns. Officers of all grades, naval and military alike,
crowded the vessel during her stay at their port; and they were all eyes
for the massive pivots and for nothing else. Guns, carriages, even rammers
and sponges, were carefully measured; and, if the pieces can be made in
France, many months will not elapse before their muzzles will be grinning
through the port-holes of French ships-of-war. We have no such gun in Europe as this 11-inch Dahlgren, but it is
considered behind the age in America. The 68-pounder is regarded by us as
a heavy piece; in the United States it is the minimum for large vessels;
whilst some ships, the "New Ironsides," "Niagara," "Vanderbilt," etc.,
carry the 11-inch _in broadside_. It is considered far too light, however,
for the sea-going ironclads, although throwing a solid shot of 160 pounds;
yet it has made a wonderful stir on both sides of the Channel. What,
then, will be thought of the 15-inch gun, throwing a shot of 480 pounds,
or of the 200-pound Parrot, with its range of five miles? We are arming our ironclads with 9-inch smooth-bores and 100-pounder
rifles, whilst the Americans are constructing their armour-ships to resist
the impact of 11 and 15-inch shot. By next June, the United States will
have in commission the following ironclads:

  Dunderberg,    5,090 tons,   10 guns. Dictator,      3,033  "       2  "
  Kalamazoo,     3,200  "       4  "
  Passaconaway,  3,200  "       4  "
  Puritan,       3,265  "       4  "
  Quinsigamond,  3,200  "       4  "
  Roanoke,       3,435  "       6  "
  Shakamaxon,    3,200  "       4  "

These, too, without counting six others of "second class," all alike armed
with the tremendous 15-inch, and built to cross the Atlantic in any
season. But it is not in ironclads alone that America is proving her
energy; first, second and third-rates, wooden built, are issuing
constantly from trans-Atlantic yards, and the Navy of the United States
now numbers no less than six hundred vessels and upwards, seventy-three of
which are ironclads. This is, indeed, an immense fleet for one nation, but we may, at all
events, rejoice that it will be used to defend--in the words of the wisest
and noblest of English statesmen--"the democratic principle, or, if that
term is offensive, popular sovereignty."




APPENDIX. LETTER OF CAPTAIN JOHN A. WINSLOW. "U. S. S. S. 'KEARSARGE,' OFF DOVER,

_July 13, 1864_. "MY DEAR SIR--I have read the proof-sheet of your pamphlet, entitled 'The
Alabama and the Kearsarge. An Account of the Naval Engagement in the
British Channel on Sunday, June 19, 1864.' I can fully endorse the
pamphlet as giving a fair, unvarnished statement of all the facts both
prior and subsequent to the engagement. "With my best wishes, I remain, with feelings of obligation, very truly
yours,

"JOHN A. WINSLOW. "FRED'K M. EDGE, ESQ.,

"LONDON."




FOOTNOTES:

[1] The Kearsarge has a four-bladed screw, diameter 12-ft 9-in. with a
pitch of 20-ft. [2] _The Career of the Alabama, "No. 290," from July 26, 1862, to June 19,
1864._ London: Dorrell and Son. [3] Captain Winslow, in his first hurried report of the engagement, put
the space covered at 20 or 25 feet, believing this to be rather over than
under the mark. The above, however, is the exact measurement. [4] There was nothing whatever between the chain and the ship's sides. [5] Including three dead. [6] See page 41. [7] The Kearsarge started on her present cruise the 4th of February, 1862;
the Alabama left the Mersey at the end of July following. [8] This information was incorrect. No such statement was ever made by the
Consul of the United States at Cherbourg. F. M. E. [9] The following is the copy of the log of the Kearsarge on the day in
question:

  "June 19, 1864. "From 8 to Merid. "Moderate breeze from the Wd. weather b. c. At 10 o'clock, inspected crew
at quarters. At 10.20, discovered the Alabama steaming out from the port
of Cherbourg, accompanied by a French iron-clad steamer, and a
fore-and-aft rigged steamer showing the white English ensign and a yacht
flag. Beat to General Quarters, and cleared the ship for action. Steamed
ahead standing off shore. At 10.50, being distant from the land about two
leagues, altered our course and approached the Alabama.