[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: Jaynes–Cummings model | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Jaynes–Cummings model — Overview

be small, or put differently, the coupling is responsible for very little population transfer between the states. Transforming back into the Schrödinger picture the JCM Hamiltonian is thus written as Eigenstates It is possible, and often very helpful, to write the Hamiltonian of the full system as a sum of two commuting parts: where with called the detuning (frequency) between the field and the two-level system. The eigenstates of , being of tensor product form, are easily solved and denoted by , where  denotes the number of radiation quanta in the mode. As the states  and  are degenerate with respect to  for all , it is enough to diagonalize  in the subspaces . The matrix elements of  in this subspace,  read

For a given , the energy eigenvalues of  are

where  is the Rabi frequency for the specific detuning parameter. The eigenstates  associated with the energy eigenvalues are given by

where the angle  is defined through

Schrödinger picture dynamics 

It is now possible to obtain the dynamics of a general state by expanding it on to the noted eigenstates. We consider a superposition of number states as the initial state for the field, , and assume an atom in the excited state is injected into the field. The initial state of the system is

Since the  are stationary states of the field-atom system, then the state vector for times
 is just given by

The Rabi oscillations can readily be seen in the sin and cos functions in the state vector. Different periods occur for different number states of photons. What is observed in experiment is the sum of many periodic functions that can be very widely oscillating and destructively sum to zero at some moment of time, but will be non-zero again at later moments. Finiteness of this moment results just from discreteness of the periodicity arguments. If the field amplitude were continuous, the revival would have never happened at finite time. Heisenberg picture dynamics 

It is possible in the Heisenberg notation to directly determine the unitary evolution operator from the Hamiltonian:

where the operator  is defined as

and  is given by

The unitarity of  is guaranteed by the identities

and their Hermitian conjugates. By the unitary evolution operator one can calculate the time evolution of the state of the system described by its density matrix , and from there the expectation value of any observable, given the initial state:

The initial state of the system is denoted by  and  is an operator denoting the observable. Mathematical formulation 2

For ease of illustration, consider the interaction of two energy sub-levels of an atom with a quantized electromagnetic field. The behavior of any other two-state system coupled to a bosonic field will be isomorphic to these dynamics. In that case, the Hamiltonian for the atom-field system is:

Where we have made the following definitions:
 is the Hamiltonian of the atom, where the letters  are used to denote the excited and ground state respectively. Setting the zero of energy to the ground state energy of the atom simplifies this to  where  is the resonance frequency of transitions between the sub-levels of the atom. is the Hamiltonian of the quantized electromagnetic field. Note the infinite sum over all possible wave-vectors  and two possible orthogonal polarization states . The operators  and  are the photon creation and annihilation operators for each indexed mode of the field. The simplicity of the Jaynes–Cummings model comes from suppressing this general sum by considering only a single mode of the field, allowing us to write  where the subscript  indicates that we are considering only the resonant mode of the cavity. is the dipole atom-field interaction Hamiltonian (here  is the position of the atom). Electric field operator of a quantized electromagnetic field is given by  and dipole operator is given by . Setting  and making the definition  where the s are the orthonormal field modes, we may write  where  and  are the raising and lowering operators acting in the  subspace of the atom. The application of the Jaynes–Cummings model allows suppression of this sum, and restrict the attention to a single mode of the field. Thus the atom-field Hamiltonian becomes: . Rotating frame and rotating-wave approximation

Next, the analysis may be simplified by performing a passive transformation into the so-called "co-rotating" frame. To do this, we use the interaction picture. Take 
. Then the interaction Hamiltonian becomes:

We now assume that the resonance frequency of the cavity is near the transition frequency of the atom, that is, we assume . Under this condition, the exponential terms oscillating at  are nearly resonant, while the other exponential terms oscillating at  are nearly anti-resonant. In the time  that it takes for the resonant terms to complete one full oscillation, the anti-resonant terms will complete many full cycles. Since over each full cycle  of anti-resonant oscillation, the net effect of the quickly oscillating anti-resonant terms tends to average to 0 for the timescales over which we wish to analyze resonant behavior.