[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: pharmacognosy medicinal plant active compound isol | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: pharmacognosy medicinal plant active compound isolation]

37. Med Res Rev. 2020 Nov;40(6):2605-2649. doi: 10.1002/med.21717. Epub 2020 Aug
10.

Therapeutic potential of phenylethanoid glycosides: A systematic review.

Wu L(1)(2)(3), Georgiev MI(4)(5), Cao H(6), Nahar L(7), El-Seedi HR(8)(9), 
Sarker SD(7), Xiao J(6), Lu B(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)College of Biosystems Engineering and Food Science, National-Local Joint 
Engineering Laboratory of Intelligent Food Technology and Equipment, Key 
Laboratory for Agro-Products Nutritional Evaluation of Ministry of Agriculture 
and Rural Affairs, Key Laboratory of Agro-Products Postharvest Handling of 
Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs, Zhejiang Key Laboratory for Agro-Food 
Processing, Zhejiang International Scientific and Technological Cooperation Base 
of Health Food Manufacturing and Quality Control, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, 
China.
(2)Fuli Institute of Food Science, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, China.
(3)Ningbo Research Institute, Zhejiang University, Ningbo, China.
(4)Laboratory of Metabolomics, The Stephan Angeloff Institute of Microbiology, 
Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, Plovdiv, Bulgaria.
(5)Center of Plant Systems Biology and Biotechnology, Plovdiv, Bulgaria.
(6)Institute of Chinese Medical Sciences, SKL of Quality Research in Chinese 
Medicine, University of Macau, Avenida da Universidade, Taipa, Macau, China.
(7)School of Pharmacy and Biomolecular Sciences, Centre for Natural Products 
Discovery (CNPD), Liverpool John Moores University, Liverpool, UK.
(8)Department of Medicinal Chemistry, Pharmacognosy Group, Uppsala University, 
Uppsala, Sweden.
(9)International Research Center for Food Nutrition and Safety, Jiangsu 
University, Zhenjiang, China.

Phenylethanoid glycosides (PhGs) are generally water-soluble phenolic compounds 
that occur in many medicinal plants. Until June 2020, more than 572 PhGs have 
been isolated and identified. PhGs possess antibacterial, anticancer, 
antidiabetic, anti-inflammatory, antiobesity, antioxidant, antiviral, and 
neuroprotective properties. Despite these promising benefits, PhGs have failed 
to fulfill their therapeutic applications due to their poor bioavailability. The 
attempts to understand their metabolic pathways to improve their bioavailability 
are investigated. In this review article, we will first summarize the number of 
PhGs compounds which is not accurate in the literature. The latest information 
on the biological activities, structure-activity relationships, mechanisms, and 
especially the clinical applications of PhGs will be reviewed. The 
bioavailability of PhGs will be summarized and factors leading to the low 
bioavailability will be analyzed. Recent advances in methods such as 
bioenhancers and nanotechnology to improve the bioavailability of PhGs are also 
summarized. The existing scientific gaps of PhGs in knowledge are also 
discussed, highlighting research directions in the future.

© 2020 Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/med.21717
PMID: 32779240 [Indexed for MEDLINE]