[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: Neutron spin echo | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Neutron spin echo — Overview

Neutron spin echo spectroscopy is an inelastic neutron scattering technique invented by Ferenc Mezei in the 1970s, and developed in collaboration with John Hayter. In recognition of his work and in other areas, Mezei was awarded the first Walter Haelg Prize in 1999. In magnetic resonance, a spin echo is the refocusing of spin magnetisation by a pulse of resonant electromagnetic radiation. The spin echo spectrometer possesses an extremely high energy resolution (roughly one part in 100,000). Additionally, it measures the density-density correlation (or intermediate scattering function) F(Q,t) as a function of momentum transfer Q and time. Other neutron scattering techniques measure the dynamic structure factor S(Q,ω), which can be converted to F(Q,t) by a Fourier transform, which may be difficult in practice. For weak inelastic features S(Q,ω) is better suited, however, for (slow) relaxations the natural representation
is given by F(Q,t). Because of its extraordinary high effective energy resolution compared to other neutron scattering techniques, NSE is an ideal method to observe 
overdamped internal dynamic modes (relaxations) and other diffusive processes in materials such as a polymer blends, alkane chains, or microemulsions. The extraordinary power of NSE spectrometry was further demonstrated recently by the direct observation of coupled internal protein dynamics in the proteins NHERF1 and Taq polymerase and the adherens junction, allowing the direct visualization of protein nanomachinery in motion. Several elementary reviews of the technique exist. How it works
Neutron spin echo is a time-of-flight technique. Concerning the neutron spins it has a strong analogy to the so-called Hahn echo,  well known in the
field of NMR. In both cases the loss of polarization (magnetization) due to dephasing of the spins in time is restored by an effective time reversal operation,
that leads to a restitution of polarization (rephasing). In NMR the dephasing happens due to variation in the local fields at positions of the
nuclei, in NSE the dephasing is due to different neutron velocities in the incoming neutron beam. The Larmor precession of the neutron spin in a preparation zone with a magnetic field before the sample encodes
the individual velocities of neutrons in the beam into precession angles. Close to the sample the time reversal is effected by a so-called
flipper. A symmetric decoding zone follows such that at its end the precession angle accumulated in the preparation zone is exactly compensated
(provided the sample did not change the neutron velocity, i.e. elastic scattering), all spins rephase to form the "spin-echo". Ideally the full polarization is restored. This effect does not depend on the velocity/energy/wavelength of the incoming neutron. If the scattering at the sample is not elastic but changes the neutron velocity, the rephasing will become incomplete and a loss of final
polarization results, which depends on the distribution of differences in the time, which the neutrons need to fly through the symmetric first (coding) and second (decoding)precession zones. The time differences occur due to a velocity change acquired by non-elastic scattering at the sample. The distribution of these time differences is proportional (in the linearization approximation which is appropriate for quasi-elastic high resolution spectroscopy) to the spectral part of the scattering function S(Q,ω). The effect on the measured beam polarization is proportional to the cos-Fourier transform of the spectral function, the intermediate scattering function F(Q,t). The time parameter depends on the neutron wavelength and the factor connecting precession angle with (reciprocal) velocity, which can e.g. be controlled by setting a certain magnetic field in the preparation and decoding zones. Scans of t may then be performed by varying the magnetic field. It is important to note: that all the spin manipulations are just a means to detect velocity changes of the neutron, which influence—for technical  reasons—in terms of a Fourier transform of the spectral function in the measured intensity. The velocity changes of the neutrons convey the physical information which is available by using NSE, i.e. where  and . B denotes the precession field strength, λ the
(average) neutron wavelength and Δv the neutron velocity change upon scattering at the sample. The main reason for using NSE is that by the above means it can reach Fourier times of up to many 100ns, which corresponds to energy
resolutions in the neV range. The closest approach to this resolution by a spectroscopic neutron instrument type, namely the 
backscattering spectrometer (BSS), is in the range of 0.5 to 1 μeV. The spin-echo trick allows to use an intense beam of neutrons with a wavelength distribution of 10% or more and at the same time to be
sensitive to velocity changes in the range of less than 10−4. Note: the above explanations assumes the generic NSE configuration—as first utilized by the IN11 instrument at the Institut Laue–Langevin (ILL)--.