[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: herbal medicine drug interaction pharmacokinetics | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: herbal medicine drug interaction pharmacokinetics]

79. Phytochem Anal. 2018 Jul;29(4):331-340. doi: 10.1002/pca.2752. Epub 2018 Feb
19.

LC-MS based metabolic and metabonomic studies of Panax ginseng.

Wu W(1), Jiao C(1), Li H(1), Ma Y(1), Jiao L(1), Liu S(1).

Author information:
(1)Jilin Ginseng Academy, Changchun University of Chinese Medicine, Changchun, 
P. R. China.

INTRODUCTION: Panax ginseng has received much attention as a valuable health 
supplement with medicinal potential. Its chemical diversity and multiple 
pharmacological properties call for comprehensive methods to better understand 
the effects of ginseng and ginsenosides. Liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry 
(LC-MS) based metabonomic approaches just fit the purpose.
OBJECTIVE: Aims to give a review of recent progress on LC-MS based 
pharmacokinetic, metabolic, and phytochemical metabolomic studies of ginseng, 
and metabonomic studies of ginseng intervention effects.
METHODS: The review has four sections: the first section discusses metabolic 
studies of ginsenosides based on LC-MS, the second focuses on ginsenoside-drug 
interactions and pharmacokinetic interaction between herb compounds based on 
LC-MS, the third is phytochemical metabolomic studies of ginseng based on LC-MS, 
and the fourth deals with metabonomic studies of ginseng intervention effects 
based on LC-MS.
RESULTS: LC-MS based metabonomic research on ginseng include analysis of single 
ginsenoside and total ginsenosides. The theory of multi-components and 
multi-targeted mechanisms helps to explain ginseng effects.
CONCLUSION: LC-MS based metabonomics is a promising way to comprehensively 
assess ginseng. It is valuable for quality control and mechanism studies of 
ginseng.

Copyright © 2018 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/pca.2752
PMID: 29460310 [Indexed for MEDLINE]