[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: laser surgery LASIK corneal refractive outcome | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: laser surgery LASIK corneal refractive outcome]

92. J Refract Surg. 2025 Aug;41(8):e855-e879. doi: 10.3928/1081597X-20250617-01. 
Epub 2025 Aug 1.

Astigmatism Correction Through Excimer Laser Ablation Profiles: A Descriptive 
Review and Guide.

Verma S, Arba-Mosquera S.

PURPOSE: To review the reported outcomes for correction of astigmatism using 
excimer laser-based corneal refractive surgery techniques and to present 
distinctly the intricacies of the different ablation profiles.
METHODS: Keywords such as "refractive correction," "excimer lasers," "ablation 
profiles," and "astigmatism" were used for literature research. Inclusion 
criteria were strict relevance and adequacy to the clinical questions under 
research, and availability of the abstract in the English language.
RESULTS: Bitoric, cross-cylinder, and custom wavefront-optimized 
(aberration-neutral) or wavefront-guided treatments are used in modern laser 
systems to correct astigmatism. From scientific literature reviewed in this 
article, laser ablation to correct astigmatism was found to produce satisfactory 
visual outcomes in terms of safety, efficacy, and predictability. Custom 
ablation respecting postoperative corneal curvature gradient, correcting true 
corneal astigmatism after eliminating the higher order aberrations, and 
accurately compensating for possible cyclotorsion will result in patient 
satisfaction.
CONCLUSIONS: Integrating subjective and objective assessment of astigmatism 
effectively to optimize treatment outcomes is complex, particularly across a 
wide range of refractive errors. Properly determining how much astigmatism 
should be incorporated into the treatment is critical. Ignoring ocular residual 
astigmatism and sculpting the cornea based only on manifest refraction has the 
penalty that the entire ocular residual astigmatism remains as postoperative 
surgical residual astigmatism, also resulting in induction of spherical 
aberrations. Centration, optical zone sizes, cyclotorsion compensation, and use 
of appropriate treatment algorithms are of prime importance in obtaining 
favorable outcomes in correction of astigmatism.

DOI: 10.3928/1081597X-20250617-01
PMID: 40778872 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure: SA-M and SV are employees of SCHWIND 
eye-tech-solutions GmbH.