[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: magnetic nanoparticle hyperthermia cancer therapy | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: magnetic nanoparticle hyperthermia cancer therapy]

50. J Mater Chem B. 2020 Sep 30;8(37):8671-8683. doi: 10.1039/d0tb01021a.

MOF-derived novel porous Fe(3)O(4)@C nanocomposites as smart nanomedical 
platforms for combined cancer therapy: magnetic-triggered synergistic 
hyperthermia and chemotherapy.

Xiang Z(1), Qi Y(1), Lu Y(2), Hu Z(2), Wang X(1), Jia W(1), Hu J(2), Ji J(3), Lu 
W(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Regenerative Medicine, Shanghai East Hospital, Shanghai Key Lab 
of D&A for Metal Functional Materials, School of Life Scxience and Technology, 
School of Materials Science and Engineering, Tongji University, Shanghai 200123, 
China. wuj3@tongji.edu.cn weilu@tongji.edu.cn.
(2)Department of Oral Maxillofacial-Head and Neck Oncology, Shanghai Key 
Laboratory of Stomatology & Shanghai Research Institute of Stomatology, National 
Clinical Research Center of Stomatology, Shanghai Ninth People's Hospital, 
Shanghai Jiao Tong University School of Medicine, Shanghai, China. 
huyayi@shsmu.edu.cn.
(3)Key Laboratory of Imaging Diagnosis and Minimally Invasive Intervention 
Research, Affiliated Lishui Hospital of Zhejiang University, Lishui, 323000, 
China. lschrjjs@163.com.

Multifunctional nanomedical platforms have broad prospects in imaging-guided 
combination therapy in cancer precision medicine. In this work, metal-organic 
framework (MOF)-derived novel porous Fe3O4@C nanocomposites were developed as an 
intelligent cancer nanomedical platform for combined cancer therapy with 
MRI-guided magnetic-triggered hyperthermia and chemotherapy functions. The 
magnetic behavior, porous character and good surface modification endowed this 
smart nanoplatform with favorable biocompatibility, high-efficiency MRI imaging, 
magnetic-triggered on-demand DOX release function, and synergistic therapy of 
magnetic hyperthermia and chemotherapy, which proposed an all-in-one platform 
for cancer therapy. Additionally, in vivo animal experiments verified the 
significant suppression of malignant tumor growth with negligible side effects, 
which were attributed to the consecutive 13 day synergistic therapy of magnetic 
hyperthermia and chemotherapy in one. To be specific, Fe3O4@C-PVP@DOX 
significantly decreases the volume (2.5 to 0.44 of tumor volume ratio) and 
weight (0.49 g to 0.10 g) of tumors after magnetic-triggered hyperthermia and 
chemotherapy treatments. Moreover, no big difference of body weight and 
associated damage was observed among all major organs. Therefore, owing to its 
high-efficiency combined therapy of magnetic-triggered hyperthermia and 
chemotherapy, this smart nanoplatform holds great potential application in the 
precise treatments of clinical cancer.

DOI: 10.1039/d0tb01021a
PMID: 32856668 [Indexed for MEDLINE]