[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Propulsion Mechanics | Topic: GTRE GTX-35VS Kaveri | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# GTRE GTX-35VS Kaveri — Overview

With this test, Kaveri engine has completed a major milestone of development programme," it added. After completing these milestone Kaveri engine is flight-worthy. The Kaveri engine was tested for the first time on a flying testbed and the trials were a success. Till April 2011, the first phase of Kaveri engine FTB trials have been completed successfully and further tests will continue from May 2011 onwards. The flight tests successfully carried out so far are up to  maximum altitude and a maximum forward speed of 0.7 Mach. In its annual report for 2010–11, The Comptroller and Auditor General of India noted that  had been spent on development, with only two out of the six milestones prescribed having been met. Among its deficiencies, CAG says the engine weight was higher than the design specifications, being  against , and there was no progress on developing the compressor, turbine and engine control systems. On 21 December 2011, "9 prototypes of Kaveri engines and 4 prototypes of Kabini (Core) engines have been developed" told by the then Defence Minister AK Antony in Rajya Sabha. Further on, 2050 hours of test flight of engines has been taken place so far. 27 flights for 55 hours duration have been completed on testbed IL-76 aircraft as well as  maximum forward altitude and a maximum forward speed of 0.7 Mach had been recorded. Problems

The Kaveri program has attracted much criticism due to its ambitious objective, protracted development time, cost overruns, and the DRDO's lack of clarity and openness in admitting problems. Much of the criticism of the LCA program has been aimed at the Kaveri and Multi-Mode Radar programs. There has been much criticism of the degree of realism in the DRDO's planning schedules for various elements of the LCA programme, most particularly for the Kaveri development effort. France's SNECMA, with over half a century of successful jet engine development experience, took nearly 13 years to bring the Rafale fighter's M88 engine to low-volume production after bench testing had begun; a similar timespan for the less-experienced GTRE would see Kaveri production beginning no earlier than 2009. Another criticism has been DRDO's reluctance to admit problems in the engine and its resistance to involve foreign engine manufacturers until the problems became too large to handle. In August 2010, regarding the reasons for delay, a Ministry of Defense press release reported:
 "Ab-initio development of state-of-the-art gas turbine technologies. Technical/technological complexities. Lack of availability of critical equipment & materials and denial of technologies by the technologically advanced countries. Lack of availability of test facilities in the country necessitating testing abroad. Non availability of skilled/technically specialized manpower."

Current status
The DRDO currently hopes to have the Kaveri engine ready for use on the Tejas in the latter half of the 2010s decade and according to latest news still research on it is going on and the time to complete its research has been extended to 2011-2012. "In recent times, the engine has been able to produce thrust of  but what the IAF and other stake-holders desire is power between ", senior officials told The Hindu. "On using the Kaveri for the LCA, they said the engine would be fitted on the first 40 LCAs to be supplied to the IAF when they come for upgrades to the DRDO in the latter half of the decade." Article further adds that in 2011, 50-60 test flights will be carried out to mature the engine in terms of reliability, safety and airworthiness. India's Gas Turbine Research Establishment (GTRE) aims to integrate the Kaveri power-plant with the Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd (HAL) Tejas fighter within the next nine months. A test aircraft operated by India's Aeronautical Development Agency will be used for the integration, says an industry source familiar with the programme. If the integration is successful, the GTRE hopes to see a Tejas fly with a Kaveri power-plant by the end of 2013. In Lok Sabha on 10 December. 2012 Defence Minister A K Antony gave an update on the progress made by the Kaveri Engine Development Project as follows:

 So far, 9 prototypes of Kaveri Engine and 4 prototypes of Kabani (Core) Engine have been developed. 2,200 hours of test (ground and altitude conditions) has been conducted. The following two major milestones have been achieved:
 Successful completion of Official Altitude Testing (OAT); and
 Demonstration of First Block of flight of Kaveri Engine in Flying Test Bed (FTB). Kaveri Engine was integrated with IL-76 Aircraft at Gromov Flight Research Institute (GFRI), Russia and flight test was successfully carried out up to  maximum altitude and maximum forward speed of 0.7 Mach. Twenty Seven flights for 57 hours duration have been completed. DRDO demonstrated its technological capability in aero-engine technology. This has been a great achievement in the aerospace community of the country, when the first ever indigenously developed fighter aircraft engine was subjected to flight testing.