[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: ethnobotany traditional medicine biological activi | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: ethnobotany traditional medicine biological activity]

90. J Ethnopharmacol. 2019 May 23;236:412-442. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2019.02.041.
Epub  2019 Feb 25.

A review of the phytochemistry and pharmacological activities of Magnoliae 
officinalis cortex.

Luo H(1), Wu H(1), Yu X(1), Zhang X(1), Lu Y(1), Fan J(2), Tang L(3), Wang Z(4).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Chinese Materia Medica, China Academy of Chinese Medical 
Science, Beijing 100700, China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Generic Manufacture Technology of Chinese Traditional 
Medicine, Shandong 276006, China.
(3)Institute of Chinese Materia Medica, China Academy of Chinese Medical 
Science, Beijing 100700, China. Electronic address: bjtangliying@163.com.
(4)Institute of Chinese Materia Medica, China Academy of Chinese Medical 
Science, Beijing 100700, China. Electronic address: wangzhuju@sina.com.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Magnoliae Officinalis Cortex (the dried bark of 
Magnolia officinalis), a widely used traditional Chinese medicine, is also known 
as 'Houpo' (Chinese: ). Magnoliae Officinalis Cortex has a wide range of 
pharmacological effects and has been used to treat conditions such as abdominal 
distention, vomiting, diarrhea, food accumulation, Qi stagnation, constipation, 
phlegm and fluid retention and cough resulting from asthma.
AIMS OF THE REVIEW: The present paper reviews advances in research relating to 
the botany, ethnopharmacology, phytochemistry, pharmacology and toxicology of 
Magnoliae Officinalis Cortex. Prospects for future investigation and application 
of this herb are also discussed.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Information on Magnoliae Officinalis Cortex was obtained 
from published materials, including ancient and modern books; PhD and MSc 
dissertations; monographs on medicinal plants; the pharmacopoeia of different 
countries and electronic databases, such as SCI finder, PubMed, Web of Science, 
ACS, Science Direct, Wiley, Springer, Taylor, AGRIS, Europe PMC, EBSCO host, 
CNKI, WanFang DATA, J-STAGE and Google Scholar.
RESULTS: More than 200 chemical compounds have been isolated from Magnoliae 
Officinalis Cortex, including lignans, phenylethanoid glycosides, phenolic 
glycosides, alkaloids, steroids and essential oils. The plant has been reported 
to have pharmacological effects on the digestive system, nervous system and 
cardiovascular and cerebrovascular systems, as well as antibacterial, 
anti-tumour, analgesic, anti-inflammatory and anti-oxidative effects.
CONCLUSIONS: Magnoliae Officinalis Cortex is an essential traditional Chinese 
medicine with pharmacological activities that mainly affect the digestive 
system, nervous system and cardiovascular and cerebrovascular systems. This 
review summarises its botany, ethnopharmacology, phytochemistry, pharmacology 
and toxicology. These information suggest that we should focus on the 
development of new drugs related to Magnoliae Officinalis Cortex, including 
specific constituents, so that Magnoliae Officinalis Cortex can exert greater 
therapeutic potential. Meanwhile, it is important to pay attention to the 
rational use of Magnolia resources, avoiding over-harvesting which could lead to 
lack of resources. We should also pursue research on Magnolia substitutes and 
develop resources such as Magnoliae Officinalis Flos and Magnolia Leaf.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2019.02.041
PMID: 30818008 [Indexed for MEDLINE]