[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: Yunnan Baiyao | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Yunnan Baiyao — Overview

this finding is not known. Multiple routes of drug administration results in varying degrees of efficacy. Topical administration has been shown to have a degree of efficacy possibly through ultrastructural changes in platelets and platelet-constituent release. The effect of Yunnan Baiyao on the coagulation biochemical system has not been fully elucidated, but it has been suggested that the expression of glycoproteins on platlets plays a role. One in vitro study found that Yunnan Baiyao causes dose- and time- dependent hemangiosarcoma cell death through initiation of caspase-mediated cell apoptosis in a canine cell cancer line which supports future studies involving Yunnan Baiyao. It is reported to be well-tolerated in dogs. Another study found no significant difference from placebo regarding buccal mucosal bleeding time, prothrombin time, activated partial thromboplastin time, and clotting parameters in canines. There was no high-quality evidence supporting the use of Yunnan Baiyao for either rheumatoid arthritis or hemangiosarcoma available in publicly reported scientific literature as of 2019. Two randomized double-blind studies showed the administration of yunnan baiyao produced effects on intraoperative blood loss, producing “a reduction in intraoperative blood loss in bimaxillary orthognathic surgery“, and that it “reduced the amount of intraoperative bleeding of cervical open-door laminoplasty”. Another showed that perioperative oral administration “can effectively reduce the magnitude of facial swelling in bimaxillary orthognathic surgery”. Concerns include lack of quality control, manufacturing regulations, and standardization in China. Market

Fields
Yunnan Baiyao is focused primarily on diversification of the higher-end market segment for pharmaceuticals. Following the success of its adhesive bandages, the Chinese firm added toothpaste to its product line-up. Sales revenue from the Yunnan Baiyao toothpaste grossed 500 million yuan in 2008, making it the fifth most popular toothpaste in China in terms of sales revenue. Product research
Over the five years prior to 2016, the revenue of the Yunnan Baiyao Group doubled to $3.4 billion in 2016, while net profits increased by 140% to $440 million. Market capitalisation rose by over 250% since the end of 2011, to more than $13 billion. Starting around 2005, Yunnan Baiyao expanded further into consumer products including patches and shampoos. Adhesive bandages with Yunnan Baiyao powder are marketed under the slogan "It heals faster with Baiyao" (). See also 

Artemisinin
Artesunate
Dihydroartemisinin
Project 523
Tu Youyou

References

External links 
 Yunnan Baiyao Group Company Limited 
 Yunnan Baiyao for dogs

Plants used in traditional Chinese medicine