[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: crystal structure protein drug target binding | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: crystal structure protein drug target binding]

5. Nature. 2020 Aug;584(7819):115-119. doi: 10.1038/s41586-020-2380-z. Epub 2020 
May 26.

Human neutralizing antibodies elicited by SARS-CoV-2 infection.

Ju B(#)(1)(2), Zhang Q(#)(3), Ge J(#)(4), Wang R(3), Sun J(5), Ge X(1), Yu J(1), 
Shan S(3), Zhou B(1), Song S(1), Tang X(1), Yu J(4), Lan J(4), Yuan J(6), Wang 
H(1), Zhao J(1)(2), Zhang S(7), Wang Y(8), Shi X(3), Liu L(1)(2), Zhao J(5), 
Wang X(9), Zhang Z(10)(11), Zhang L(12).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Hepatology, National Clinical Research Center for Infectious 
Disease, Shenzhen Third People's Hospital, Shenzhen, China.
(2)The Second Affiliated Hospital, School of Medicine, Southern University of 
Science and Technology, Shenzhen, China.
(3)Center for Global Health and Infectious Diseases, Comprehensive AIDS Research 
Center and Beijing Advanced Innovation Center for Structural Biology, School of 
Medicine, and Vanke School of Public Health, Tsinghua University, Beijing, 
China.
(4)The Ministry of Education Key Laboratory of Protein Science, Beijing Advanced 
Innovation Center for Structural Biology, Beijing Frontier Research Center for 
Biological Structure, Collaborative Innovation Center for Biotherapy, School of 
Life Sciences, Tsinghua University, Beijing, China.
(5)State Key Laboratory of Respiratory Disease, National Clinical Research 
Center for Respiratory Disease, Guangzhou Institute of Respiratory Health, the 
First Affiliated Hospital of Guangzhou Medical University, Guangzhou, China.
(6)Department for Infectious Diseases, Shenzhen Third People's Hospital, 
Shenzhen, China.
(7)Shanghai Public Health Clinical Center and Institute of Biomedical Sciences, 
Fudan University, Shanghai, China.
(8)Division of HIV/AIDS and Sex-Transmitted Virus Vaccines, National Institutes 
for Food and Drug Control, Beijing, China.
(9)The Ministry of Education Key Laboratory of Protein Science, Beijing Advanced 
Innovation Center for Structural Biology, Beijing Frontier Research Center for 
Biological Structure, Collaborative Innovation Center for Biotherapy, School of 
Life Sciences, Tsinghua University, Beijing, China. 
xinquanwang@mail.tsinghua.edu.cn.
(10)Institute for Hepatology, National Clinical Research Center for Infectious 
Disease, Shenzhen Third People's Hospital, Shenzhen, China. 
zhangzheng1975@aliyun.com.
(11)The Second Affiliated Hospital, School of Medicine, Southern University of 
Science and Technology, Shenzhen, China. zhangzheng1975@aliyun.com.
(12)Center for Global Health and Infectious Diseases, Comprehensive AIDS 
Research Center and Beijing Advanced Innovation Center for Structural Biology, 
School of Medicine, and Vanke School of Public Health, Tsinghua University, 
Beijing, China. zhanglinqi@tsinghua.edu.cn.
(#)Contributed equally

The coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic caused by severe acute 
respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) presents a global health 
emergency that is in urgent need of intervention1-3. The entry of SARS-CoV-2 
into its target cells depends on binding between the receptor-binding domain 
(RBD) of the viral spike protein and its cellular receptor, 
angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2)2,4-6. Here we report the isolation and 
characterization of 206 RBD-specific monoclonal antibodies derived from single B 
cells from 8 individuals infected with SARS-CoV-2. We identified antibodies that 
potently neutralize SARS-CoV-2; this activity correlates with competition with 
ACE2 for binding to RBD. Unexpectedly, the anti-SARS-CoV-2 antibodies and the 
infected plasma did not cross-react with the RBDs of SARS-CoV or Middle East 
respiratory syndrome-related coronavirus (MERS-CoV), although there was 
substantial plasma cross-reactivity to their trimeric spike proteins. Analysis 
of the crystal structure of RBD-bound antibody revealed that steric hindrance 
inhibits viral engagement with ACE2, thereby blocking viral entry. These 
findings suggest that anti-RBD antibodies are largely viral-species-specific 
inhibitors. The antibodies identified here may be candidates for development of 
clinical interventions against SARS-CoV-2.

DOI: 10.1038/s41586-020-2380-z
PMID: 32454513 [Indexed for MEDLINE]