[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS neurology | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS neurology]

30. Brain Res Bull. 2018 Jun;140:258-269. doi:
10.1016/j.brainresbull.2018.05.016.  Epub 2018 May 24.

Transcranial magnetic stimulation in myoclonus of different aetiologies.

Nardone R(1), Versace V(2), Höller Y(3), Sebastianelli L(2), Brigo F(4), Lochner 
P(5), Golaszewski S(6), Saltuari L(7), Trinka E(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Franz Tappeiner Hospital, Merano, Italy; Department 
of Neurology, Christian Doppler Klinik, Paracelsus Medical University, Salzburg, 
Austria; Karl Landsteiner Institut für Neurorehabilitation und 
Raumfahrtneurologie, Salzburg, Austria. Electronic address: 
raffaele.nardone@asbmeran-o.it.
(2)Department of Neurorehabilitation, Hospital of Vipiteno, Vipiteno, Italy; 
Research Unit for Neurorehabilitation South Tyrol, Bolzano, Italy.
(3)Department of Neurology, Christian Doppler Klinik, Paracelsus Medical 
University, Salzburg, Austria.
(4)Department of Neurology, Franz Tappeiner Hospital, Merano, Italy; Department 
of Neuroscience, Biomedicine and Movement Science, University of Verona, Italy.
(5)Department of Neurology, Saarland University Medical Center, Germany.
(6)Department of Neurology, Christian Doppler Klinik, Paracelsus Medical 
University, Salzburg, Austria; Karl Landsteiner Institut für Neurorehabilitation 
und Raumfahrtneurologie, Salzburg, Austria.
(7)Department of Neurorehabilitation, Hospital of Vipiteno, Vipiteno, Italy; 
Research Unit for Neurorehabilitation South Tyrol, Bolzano, Italy; Department of 
Neurology, Hochzirl Hospital, Zirl, Austria.
(8)Department of Neurology, Christian Doppler Klinik, Paracelsus Medical 
University, Salzburg, Austria; Centre for Cognitive Neurosciences Salzburg, 
Salzburg, Austria; University for Medical Informatics and Health Technology, 
UMIT, Hall in Tirol, Austria.

Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) may represent a valuable tool for 
investigating important neurophysiological and pathophysiological aspects of 
myoclonus. Moreover, repetitive TMS (rTMS) can influence neural activity. In 
this review we performed a systematic search of all studies using TMS in order 
to explore cortical excitability/plasticity and rTMS for the treatment of 
myoclonus due to different aetiologies. We identified and reviewed 40 articles 
matching the inclusion criteria; 415 patients were included in these studies. 
The reviewed TMS studies have detected abnormalities in motor cortex 
excitability and sensorimotor plasticity. The most consistent finding is a 
decrease in intracortical inhibition. Short-interval intracortical inhibition 
(SICI) is reduced in myoclonic epilepsies. Unlike the juvenile and the benign 
myoclonus epilepsy, long-interval intracortical inhibition, interhemispheric 
inhibition and sensorimotor integration were altered in patients with 
progressive myoclonic epilepsies. In patients with myoclonus-dystonia the 
results are partly conflicting. Cortical membrane excitability was impaired 
while parameters assessing cortical synaptic activity were normal in DYT11 gene 
carriers. In other studies normal SICI suggests that the GABAergic cortical 
circuits are largely intact and that the mechanisms of myoclonus-dystonia are 
different from those for cortical myoclonus and other dystonic disorders. In 
conclusion, different TMS study protocols have provided new insights into 
sensorimotor plasticity and cortical excitability of the different forms of 
myoclonus, and have shed some light on the pathophysiology of this movement 
disorder. Well-defined motor cortical excitability patterns can be identified in 
the different disorders characterized by myoclonus, even if preliminary findings 
should be confirmed in future studies in larger cohorts of patients. Repetitive 
TMS might have therapeutic potential at least in some patients with myoclonus, 
similar to that reported in other neurological and psychiatric disorders.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.brainresbull.2018.05.016
PMID: 29803873 [Indexed for MEDLINE]