[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: ethnobotany traditional medicine biological activi | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: ethnobotany traditional medicine biological activity]

74. Curr Pharm Des. 2019;25(8):871-935. doi: 10.2174/1381612825666190402163940.

Ethnobotany, Phytochemistry and Traditional Uses of Curcuma spp. and 
Pharmacological Profile of Two Important Species (C. longa and C. zedoaria): A 
Review.

Ayati Z(1), Ramezani M(2)(3), Amiri MS(4), Moghadam AT(5)(6), Rahimi H(5), 
Abdollahzade A(5), Sahebkar A(7)(8), Emami SA(1)(9).

Author information:
(1)Department of Traditional Pharmacy, School of Pharmacy, Mashhad University of 
Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran.
(2)Nanotechnology Research Center, Mashhad University of Medical Sciences, 
Mashhad, Iran.
(3)Pharmaceutical Research Center, Mashhad University of Medical Sciences, 
Mashhad, Iran.
(4)Department of Biology, Payame Noor University, Tehran, Iran.
(5)School of Pharmacy, Mashhad University of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran.
(6)Department of Clinical Pharmacy, School of Pharmacy, Shahid Beheshti 
University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(7)Biotechnology Research Center, Pharmaceutical Technology Institute, Mashhad 
University of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran.
(8)Neurogenic Inflammation Research Center, Mashhad University of Medical 
Sciences, Mashhad, Iran.
(9)Department of Pharmacognosy, School of Pharmacy, Biotechnology Research 
Center, Mashhad University of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: The genus Curcuma, which is the most important 
source of curcumin, has been widely used in different traditional medicines. 
Various species of Curcuma have long been used for several purposes such as 
healing wounds, liver disorders, jaundice and also as a blood purifier.
AIM OF THE STUDY: This review focused on the ethnopharmacological uses and 
phytochemical aspects of Curcuma. Additionally, in this study, the different 
properties of two species of Curcuma in Islamic Traditional Medicine (ITM), C. 
longa and C. zedoaria, as well as their pharmacological aspects in modern 
medicine are reviewed.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: ITM literatures were searched to find Curcuma's 
applications. Also, electronic databases including PubMed and Scopus were 
searched to obtain studies giving any in vitro, in vivo or human evidence of the 
efficacy of C. longa and C. zedoaria in the treatment of different diseases. 
ChemOffice software was used to find chemical structures.
RESULTS: The analysis showed that ethno-medical uses of Curcuma have been 
recorded for centuries. Approximately, 427 chemical compounds have been isolated 
and identified from Curcuma spp. This genus is rich in flavonoids, tannins, 
anthocyanin, phenolic compounds, oil, organic acids and inorganic compounds. 
Curcumin is one of the main active ingredients in Curcuma which has strong 
anti-inflammatory and antioxidant effects. Besides, pharmacological studies have 
indicated wide range of Curcuma's activities, such as hepato-protective, 
antifungal, antihypertensive and neuroprotective.
CONCLUSIONS: In this study, we reviewed various studies conducted on 
ethno-medicinal, ITM properties and photochemistry of Curcuma spp. Also, 
pharmacological activities of two species, C. longa and C. zedoaria are 
summarized. Pre-clinical investigations have demonstrated some of the 
traditional aspects of Curcuma, such as wound healing, anti-arthritic, 
anti-tumor and liver protective activities. These could be related to 
antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties of Curcuma which might be due to 
high amounts of phenolic compounds. Curcuma is mentioned to have neural tonic 
properties in ITM which have been confirmed by some animal studies. Considering 
various preclinical studies on C. longa and C. zedoaria and their active 
ingredient, curcumin, randomized controlled trials are warranted to confirm 
their promise as a clinically effective hepato and neuro-protective agents.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/1381612825666190402163940
PMID: 30947655 [Indexed for MEDLINE]