[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Complex Circuit Systems | Topic: Electronic filter topology | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Electronic filter topology — Overview

more than one passband, the m-type topology will result in a filter where each passband has an analogous frequency-domain response. It is possible to generalise the m-type topology for filters with more than one passband using parameters m1, m2, m3 etc., which are not equal to each other resulting in general mn-type filters which have bandforms that can differ in different parts of the frequency spectrum. The mm'-type topology can be thought of as a double m-type design. Like the m-type it has the same bandform but offers further improved transfer characteristics. It is, however, a rarely used design due to increased component count and complexity as well as its normally requiring basic ladder and m-type sections in the same filter for impedance matching reasons. It is normally only found in a composite filter. Bridged-T topologies

Zobel constant resistance filters use a topology that is somewhat different from other filter types, distinguished by having a constant input resistance at all frequencies and in that they use resistive components in the design of their sections. The higher component and section count of these designs usually limits their use to equalisation applications. Topologies usually associated with constant resistance filters are the bridged-T and its variants, all described in the Zobel network article;

Bridged-T topology
Balanced bridged-T topology
Open-circuit L-section topology
Short-circuit L-section topology
Balanced open-circuit C-section topology
Balanced short-circuit C-section topology

The bridged-T topology is also used in sections intended to produce a signal delay but in this case no resistive components are used in the design. Lattice topology

Both the T-section (from ladder topology) and the bridge-T (from Zobel topology) can be transformed into a lattice topology filter section but in both cases this results in high component count and complexity. The most common application of lattice filters (X-sections) is in all-pass filters used for phase equalisation. Although T and bridged-T sections can always be transformed into X-sections the reverse is not always possible because of the possibility of negative values of inductance and capacitance arising in the transform. Lattice topology is identical to the more familiar bridge topology, the difference being merely the drawn representation on the page rather than any real difference in topology, circuitry or function. Active topologies

Multiple feedback topology

Multiple feedback topology is an electronic filter topology which is used to implement an electronic filter by adding two poles to the transfer function. A diagram of the circuit topology for a second order low pass filter is shown in the figure on the right. The transfer function of the multiple feedback topology circuit, like all second-order linear filters, is:

. In an MF filter,

 is the Q factor. is the DC voltage gain
 is the corner frequency

For finding suitable component values to achieve the desired filter properties, a similar approach can be followed as in the Design choices section of the alternative Sallen–Key topology. Biquad filter topology
For the digital implementation of a biquad filter, see Digital biquad filter. A biquad filter is a type of linear filter that implements a transfer function that is the ratio of two quadratic functions. The name biquad is short for biquadratic. Any second-order filter topology can be referred to as a biquad, such as the MFB or Sallen-Key. However, there is also a specific "biquad" topology. It is also sometimes called the 'ring of 3' circuit. Biquad filters are typically active and implemented with a single-amplifier biquad (SAB) or two-integrator-loop topology. The SAB topology uses feedback to generate complex poles and possibly complex zeros. In particular, the feedback moves the real poles of an RC circuit in order to generate the proper filter characteristics. The two-integrator-loop topology is derived from rearranging a biquadratic transfer function. The rearrangement will equate one signal with the sum of another signal, its integral, and the integral's integral. In other words, the rearrangement reveals a state variable filter structure. By using different states as outputs, any kind of second-order filter can be implemented. The SAB topology is sensitive to component choice and can be more difficult to adjust. Hence, usually the term biquad refers to the two-integrator-loop state variable filter topology. Tow-Thomas filter

For example, the basic configuration in Figure 1 can be used as either a low-pass or bandpass filter depending on where the output signal is taken from. The second-order low-pass transfer function is given by

where low-pass gain . The second-order bandpass transfer function is given by
. with bandpass gain . In both cases, the
 Natural frequency is  . Quality factor is  . The bandwidth is approximated by , and Q is sometimes expressed as a damping constant . If a noninverting low-pass filter is required, the output can be taken at the output of the second operational amplifier, after the order of the second integrator and the inverter has been switched.