[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: Straumann | Type: Instruction-QA | Level: Graduate]

Question: Provide a comprehensive expert-level explanation of Straumann in the context of Applied Sciences.

Answer:
Straumann Group is a Swiss company based in Basel (Switzerland) manufacturing dental implants and specialized in related technologies. The group researches, develops, manufactures and supplies dental implants, instruments, biomaterials, CADCAM prosthetics, digital equipment, software, and clear aligners for applications in replacement, restorative, orthodontic and preventative dentistry.

The Straumann Group also offers services to the dental profession worldwide, including training and education, which is provided in collaboration with the International Team for Implantology (ITI) and the Instituto Latino Americano de Pesquisa e Ensino Odontológico (ILAPEO). Its products and services are available in more than 100 countries through a broad network of distribution subsidiaries and partners.

Business areas 

Straumann is active in the business of replacement and restoration of teeth, and prevention of tooth loss. Collaborating with clinics, research institutes and universities since the beginning of the company’s existence, it develops implants, instruments, computer-aided design/manufacturing (CAD/CAM) prosthetics, 3D printing and tissue regeneration products. Straumann also sees advantages in orthodontics, as 30-40% of implant patients need to get their teeth realigned before implant treatment. The company provides training and education for the dental profession around the globe in cooperation with the International Team for Implantology.

History 

The history of the Straumann Group has three distinct eras and spans more than half a century. It began in the village of Waldenburg, Switzerland in 1954 with the foundation of a research institute bearing the name of its founder, Dr. Ing. Reinhard Straumann.

1954–1970: Between Watchmaking and Medtech 

Between 1954 and 1970, the company specialized in alloys used in timing instruments and in materials testing. Among Straumann's renowned inventions in this period were special alloys that are still used in watch springs today. A breakthrough in the use of non-corroding alloys for treating bone fractures prompted Dr. Fritz Straumann to enter the fields of orthopedics and dental implantology, which began the second phase of the company's history.

1954
In the small town of Waldenburg, at the foot of the Swiss Jura, Reinhard Straumann founds the "Dr. Ing. R. Straumann Research Institute AG".

1960
The Swiss Association for the Study of Internal Fixation (AO/ASIF) is looking for a company that is capable of providing materials for internal fixation implants – Dr. H.C. Fritz Straumann, son of the company's founder, gets in touch.

1970–1998: Establishment in Medtech and MBO of Stratec 

Between 1970 and 1990, Straumann became a leading manufacturer of osteosynthesis implants. A management buy-out of the osteosynthesis division in 1990 led to the creation of Stratec (subsequently Synthes) as a separate company. Thomas Straumann, grandson of the founder, headed the remaining part of the firm, which employed just 25 people focused exclusively on dental implants. 1990 thus marked the beginning of the Straumann Group as it is known today.

1980 Straumann established a partnership with the International Team for Implantology. The 1980s also marked the company's geographic expansion, with subsidiaries in Germany (1980) and the US (1989).

 1974
The first dental implants are developed at the Institut Straumann and undergo successful clinical testing at the University of Berne.

1980
Under the aegis of Dr. Fritz Straumann, Waldenburg, and Prof Schroeder, the University of Berne, the International Team for Implantology, the ITI, is founded.

1990
After a management buy-out of the internal fixation division, Thomas Straumann focuses the activities of the Institut Straumann AG on the area of implant dentistry.

1998–present 

In 1998, Straumann Holding AG became a publicly traded company on the Swiss exchange. Through the acquisition of Kuros Therapeutics (2002) and Biora (2003), Straumann entered the promising field of oral tissue regeneration.

1998
The Straumann Holding AG goes public and is listed on the Swiss stock exchange.

2000
With the opening of the production site in Villeret, located in the Bernese Jura, and the Technology Center in Waldenburg, new dimensions open up for the international Straumann group.

2002
Straumann acquires Kuros Therapeutics AG and extends its activities into the field of biomaterials.

2003
Straumann acquires the Swedish company Biora, a pioneer in the area of biologically based regeneration of dental tissue.

2004
Straumann moves into its new headquarters in Basel.

2011
Investment in Dental Wings, a developer and provider of CADCAM software and scanning technology, based in Canada.

2012
Straumann acquires Neodent from Brazil and extends its activities into the value Market.

2013
Straumann invests in Medentika and Createch – both companies are active in prosthetics.

2016
Straumann acquires Equinox, in the fast-growing value segment in India.

The company also invests in the French implant maker Anthogyr to address the non-premium segment in China.

2017
Straumann took a controlling interest in Medentika.

2018
Straumann invests in Botiss Biomedical and fully acquires Createch. The Group also gains control of T-Plus in Taiwan.

Additionally, the Straumann Group entered the orthodontics field and strengthened its digital capabilities through acquisitions and alliances: full acquisition of Dental Wings; acquisition of ClearCorrect (US-based provider of clear-aligner tooth correction orthodontic devices); investment in Geniova (based in Spain and specialized in developing hybrid aligner orthodontic devices); investment in Rapid Shape (3D-printing systems); increased investment in Rodo Medical; acquisition of Loop Digital Solutions; partnership with 3Shape (scanning and software solutions).

2019
The Group takes over the French implant manufacturer Anthogyr.

Organization

Board of directors 
(as of 2022)

 Gilbert Acher