[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: cannabis cannabidiol therapeutic epilepsy pain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: cannabis cannabidiol therapeutic epilepsy pain]

35. Neurol Genet. 2023 Nov 17;9(6):e200105. doi: 10.1212/NXG.0000000000200105. 
eCollection 2023 Dec.

Adult Phenotype of SYNGAP1-DEE.

Rong M(1), Benke T(1), Zulfiqar Ali Q(1), Aledo-Serrano Á(1), Bayat A(1), Rossi 
A(1), Devinsky O(1), Qaiser F(1), Ali AS(1), Fasano A(1), Bassett AS(1), Andrade 
DM(1).

Author information:
(1)From the Institute of Medical Science (M.R.), University of Toronto; Adult 
Genetic Epilepsy (AGE) Program (M.R., Q.Z.A., F.Q., A.S.A., D.M.A.), Krembil 
Neurosciences Institute, Toronto Western Hospital, University Health Network, 
Ontario, Canada; Department of Pediatrics, Neurology, Pharmacology and 
Otolaryngology (T.B.), University of Colorado School of Medicine and Children's 
Hospital Colorado, Aurora; Epilepsy and Neurogenetics Program (A.A.-S.), 
Neurology Department, Ruber Internacional Hospital, and Initiative for 
Neuroscience (INCE) Foundation, Madrid, Spain; Department of Drug Design and 
Pharmacology (A. Bayat), University of Copenhagen; Department for Genetics and 
Personalized Medicine (A. Bayat), Danish Epilepsy Centre, Dianalund; Institute 
for Regional Health Services (A. Bayat), University of Southern Denmark, Odense; 
Department of Epilepsy Genetics and Personalized Medicine (A.R.), Danish 
Epilepsy Centre, Dianalund, Denmark; Pediatric Clinic (A.R.), IRCCS San Matteo 
Hospital Foundation, University of Pavia, Italy; NYU Langone Epilepsy Center 
(O.D.), NY; Edmond J. Safra Program in Parkinson's Disease (A.F.), Morton and 
Gloria Shulman Movement Disorders Clinic, Toronto Western Hospital; Division of 
Neurology (A.F.), University of Toronto; Krembil Brain Institute (A.F.); 
Clinical Genetics Research Program (A.S.B.), Centre for Addiction and Mental 
Health; The Dalglish Family 22q Clinic (A.S.B.), Toronto General Hospital, 
University Health Network; Department of Psychiatry (A.S.B.), University of 
Toronto; Toronto Congenital Cardiac Centre for Adults (A.S.B.), Division of 
Cardiology, Department of Medicine, and Department of Psychiatry, University 
Health Network; Toronto General Hospital Research Institute and Campbell Family 
Mental Health Research Institute (A.S.B.); Division of Neurology (D.M.A.), 
Department of Medicine, University of Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: SYNGAP1 variants are associated with rare 
developmental and epileptic encephalopathies (DEEs). Although SYNGAP1-related 
childhood phenotypes are well characterized, the adult phenotype remains 
ill-defined. We sought to investigate phenotypes and outcomes in adults with 
SYNGAP1 variants and epilepsy.
METHODS: Patients 18 years or older with DEE carrying likely pathogenic and 
pathogenic (LP/P) SYNGAP1 variants were recruited through physicians' practices 
and patient organization groups. We used standardized questionnaires to evaluate 
current seizures, medication use, sleep, gastrointestinal symptoms, pain 
response, gait, social communication disorder and adaptive skills of patients. 
We also assessed caregiver burden.
RESULTS: Fourteen unrelated adult patients (median: 21 years, range: 18-65 
years) with SYNGAP1-DEE were identified, 11 with novel and 3 with known LP/P 
SYNGAP1 de novo variants. One patient with a partial exon 3 deletion had greater 
daily living skills and social skills than others with single-nucleotide 
variants. Ten of 14 (71%) patients had drug-resistant seizures, treated with a 
median of 2 antiseizure medications. All patients (100%) had abnormal pain 
processing. Sleep disturbances, social communication disorders, and 
aggressive/self-injurious behaviors were each reported in 86% of patients. Only 
half of adults could walk with minimal or no assistance. Toileting was normal in 
29%, and 71% had constipation. No adult patients could read or understand verbal 
material at a sixth-grade level or higher. Aggressive/self-injurious behaviors 
were leading cause of caregiver burden. The oldest patient was aged 65 years; 
although nonambulant, she had walked independently when younger.
DISCUSSION: Seventy-one percent of patients with SYNGAP1-DEEs continue to have 
seizures when adults. Nonseizure comorbidities, especially aggression and 
self-injurious behaviors, are major management challenges in adults with 
SYNGAP1-DEE. Only 50% of adults can ambulate with minimal or no assistance. 
Almost all adult patients depend on caregivers for many activities of daily 
living. Prompt diagnostic genetic testing of adults with DEE can inform clinical 
care and guide outcomes of precision therapies.

Copyright © 2023 The Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. on 
behalf of the American Academy of Neurology.

DOI: 10.1212/NXG.0000000000200105
PMCID: PMC10692795
PMID: 38045990

Conflict of interest statement: M. Rong reports no disclosures relevant to the 
manuscript; T.A. Benke receives grant support from NINDS, NIDCD, NIA, Simons 
Foundation and IRSF. He performs consultancy for AveXis, Ovid, GW 
Pharmaceuticals, International Rett Syndrome Foundation, Takeda, Taysha, 
CureGRIN, GRIN Therapeutics, Alcyone, Neurogene, and Marinus; Clinical Trials 
with Acadia, Ovid, GW Pharmaceuticals, Marinus and RSRT; all remuneration has 
been made to his department; Q. Zulfiqar Ali reports no disclosures relevant to 
the manuscript; A. Aledo‐Serrano reports no disclosures relevant to the 
manuscript; A. Bayat reports no disclosures relevant to the manuscript; A. Rossi 
reports no disclosures relevant to the manuscript; O. Devinsky receives grant 
support from NINDS, NIMH, MURI, CDC and NSF. He has equity and/or compensation 
from the following companies: Ajna Biosciences, Tilray, Receptor Life Sciences, 
Hitch Biosciences, Tevard Biosciences, Regel Biosciences, Script Biosciences, 
Actio Biosciences, Empatica, SilverSpike, and California Cannabis Enterprises 
(CCE). He has received consulting fees from Zogenix, Ultragenyx, BridgeBio, 
GeneMedicine and Marinus. He holds patents for the use of cannabidiol in 
treating neurologic disorders which are owned by GW Pharmaceuticals for which he 
waived financial interests. He holds other patents in molecular biology. He is 
the managing partner of the PhiFund Ventures; F. Qaiser reports no disclosures 
relevant to the manuscript; A. Ali reports no disclosures relevant to the 
manuscript; A. Fasano reports no disclosures relevant to the manuscript; A.S. 
Bassett reports no disclosures relevant to the manuscript; D.M. Andrade receives 
grant support from McLaughlin Foundation, UHN Foundation, Dravet Syndrome 
Foundation. She also received consulting fees from UCB, Biocodex, Paladin, 
Eisai. Finally, she receives royalties from UpToDate. Go to Neurology.org/NG for 
full disclosures.