[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: phytotherapy systematic review clinical evidence | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: phytotherapy systematic review clinical evidence]

18. Complement Ther Med. 2017 Dec;35:70-77. doi: 10.1016/j.ctim.2017.09.009. Epub
 2017 Oct 7.

Clinical effects of Zingiber cassumunar (Plai): A systematic review.

Chongmelaxme B(1), Sruamsiri R(2), Dilokthornsakul P(3), Dhippayom T(4), 
Kongkaew C(5), Saokaew S(6), Chuthaputti A(7), Chaiyakunapruk N(8).

Author information:
(1)Center of Pharmaceutical Outcomes Research, Department of Pharmacy Practice, 
Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Naresuan University, Phitsanulok, Thailand. 
Electronic address: bunchang@hotmail.com.
(2)Center of Pharmaceutical Outcomes Research, Department of Pharmacy Practice, 
Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Naresuan University, Phitsanulok, Thailand. 
Electronic address: kookkai_100@yahoo.com.
(3)Center of Pharmaceutical Outcomes Research, Department of Pharmacy Practice, 
Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Naresuan University, Phitsanulok, Thailand; 
Department of Pharmacy Practice, Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Naresuan 
University, Phitsanulok, Thailand. Electronic address: piyamethd@gmail.com.
(4)Department of Pharmacy Practice, Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Naresuan 
University, Phitsanulok, Thailand. Electronic address: teerapond@hotmail.com.
(5)Center for Safety and Quality in Health, Department of Pharmacy Practice, 
Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Naresuan University, Thailand; Research 
Department of Practice and Policy, School of Pharmacy, UCL, UK. Electronic 
address: chuenjid@googlemail.com.
(6)Center of Pharmaceutical Outcomes Research, Department of Pharmacy Practice, 
Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Naresuan University, Phitsanulok, Thailand; 
School of Pharmacy, Monash University Malaysia, Selangor, Malaysia; Center of 
Health Outcomes Research and Therapeutic Safety (Cohorts), School of 
Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of Phayao, Phayao, Thailand. Electronic 
address: saokaew@gmail.com.
(7)Department for Development of Thai Traditional and Alternative Medicine, 
Ministry of Public Health, Nonthaburi, Thailand. Electronic address: 
anchaleeuan@gmail.com.
(8)Center of Pharmaceutical Outcomes Research, Department of Pharmacy Practice, 
Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Naresuan University, Phitsanulok, Thailand; 
Department of Pharmacy Practice, Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Naresuan 
University, Phitsanulok, Thailand; School of Pharmacy, Monash University 
Malaysia, Selangor, Malaysia; School of Pharmacy, University of Wisconsin, 
Madison, USA; Asian Centre for Evidence Synthesis in Population, Implementation 
and Clinical Outcomes (PICO), Health and Well-being Cluster, Global Asia in the 
21st Century (GA21) Platform, Monash University Malaysia, Bandar Sunway, 
Selangor, Malaysia. Electronic address: nathorn.chaiyakunapruk@monash.edu.

Zingiber cassumunar Roxb. known locally as "Plai" in Thai, has been used for 
treating bruise, sprain and musculoskeletal pain. Several pre-clinical studies 
demonstrated the anti-inflammatory effect of Plai. However, current evidence of 
clinical effects of Plai is still unclear. This study aimed to determine the 
clinical efficacy and safety of Plai among all identified indications. Of the 
808 articles identified by a systematic review, six studies were included. Four 
studies were randomized controlled trials, while two studies were 
quasi-experimental studies involving 178 patients in intervention group and 177 
patients in control group. Duration of treatment ranged from 7days to 2 months. 
Our findings showed that 14% Plai cream had a strong trend of benefits in pain 
reduction for muscle pain and ankle sprain. However, evidence supporting the 
effects of Plai on acne vulgaris treatment and anti-histamine effect are still 
unclear.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ctim.2017.09.009
PMID: 29154071 [Indexed for MEDLINE]