[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: magnetic resonance spectroscopy metabolite brain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: magnetic resonance spectroscopy metabolite brain]

7. Radiologe. 2017 Jun;57(6):450-458. doi: 10.1007/s00117-017-0241-z.

[Magnetic resonance spectroscopy of brain tumors].

[Article in German]

Ditter P(1), Hattingen E(2).

Author information:
(1)FE Neuroradiologie, Radiologische Klinik, Universitätsklinikum Bonn, 
Sigmund-Freud-Str. 25, 53127, Bonn, Deutschland.
(2)FE Neuroradiologie, Radiologische Klinik, Universitätsklinikum Bonn, 
Sigmund-Freud-Str. 25, 53127, Bonn, Deutschland. elke.hattingen@ukb.uni-bonn.de.

BACKGROUND: Conventional magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) under consideration of 
clinical information enables the correct diagnosis and therapy for the majority 
of cerebral space-occupying lesions. Some important differential diagnoses, 
e. g. low vs. high-grade tumors, require additional MRI methods.
OBJECTIVE: This article critically discusses the importance of magnetic 
resonance spectroscopy (1H-MRS) in brain tumors.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: The concentration of normal and pathological brain 
metabolites can be non-invasively measured by 1H-MRS. It is based on the 
principle that chemical proton compounds of certain brain metabolites focally 
attenuate the external magnetic field and change the proton resonance frequency 
according to typical patterns. In addition, parameter maps of MRS imaging (MRSI) 
can show the tumor heterogeneity as well as changes in the surrounding brain 
tissue. In this context, the patterns of N‑acetylaspartate, total choline (tCho) 
and creatine are relatively robust, whereas the patterns of other metabolites, 
such as myoinositol, glutamate, lactate or lipids greatly depend on the external 
field strength and echo time.
RESULTS: The signal intensity of tCho in vital tumor tissue increases with the 
WHO grade of the brain tumor, i.e. increases with the level of malignancy. The 
use of MRSI facilitates the WHO grading of gliomas by determining target points 
in biopsies. Different distribution patterns and specific metabolite signals 
enable a better differentiation between abscesses, metastases, central nervous 
system (CNS) lymphomas and gliomas.
CONCLUSION: The use of 1H-MRS provides valuable information on the differential 
diagnosis and graduation of brain tumors; however, so far artefacts, signal 
strength, parameter selection and a lack of standardization impede the 
establishment of 1H-MRS for use in clinical routine diagnostics.

DOI: 10.1007/s00117-017-0241-z
PMID: 28331947 [Indexed for MEDLINE]