[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: Valerian Trifa | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Valerian Trifa — Overview

resisting the ratification needed for opening the International Tracing Service archives managed by the International Committee of the Red Cross and kept in Bad Arolsen. The papers of Dr. Charles Kremer, dating from 1930 to 1984 and documenting his lifelong work to bring Trifa to justice, are housed in the Special Collections of Lloyd Sealy Library, John Jay College of Criminal Justice, in New York City. References

Further reading
Feigin, Judy and Mark M. Richard, The Office of Special Investigations: Striving for Accountability in the Aftermath of the Holocaust, US Department of Justice, December 2006
Gerald J. Bobango, Religion and Politics: Bishop Valerian Trifa and His Times, East European Monographs, Boulder & New York, distributed by Columbia University Press, 1981. Traian Lascu, Valerian, 1951–1984, Knello, Detroit, 1984. Ion Mihai Pacepa, Red Horizons: Chronicles of a Communist Spy Chief, Regnery Gateway, Washington, D.C., 1987. Dr. Charles H. Kremer Papers, housed at the Lloyd Sealy Library Special Collections, John Jay College of Criminal Justice (view upon request)

1914 births
1987 deaths
American anti-communists
University of Bucharest alumni
Eastern Orthodox clergy convicted of crimes
People from Câmpeni
People from the Kingdom of Hungary
Romanian Austro-Hungarians
Bishops of the Orthodox Church in America
Members of the Iron Guard
Romanian magazine editors
Holocaust perpetrators in Romania
Romanian collaborators with Nazi Germany
Romanian publishers (people)
Romanian anti-communists
Romanian emigrants to the United States
Fugitives wanted by Romania
Eastern Orthodoxy and far-right politics
Romanian expatriates in Portugal
Eastern Orthodox bishops in the United States
People from Grass Lake, Michigan
Loss of United States citizenship and deportation by prior Nazi affiliation
20th-century American clergy
Nazis convicted in absentia