[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: Culpeper's Complete Herbal — Nicholas Culpeper | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Culpeper's Complete Herbal — Nicholas Culpeper — Overview

on a stump only a short distance away, yet Whitey hadn't seen him. Whitey had looked straight at him many times, but because Jumper had not moved so much as a hair Whitey had mistaken him for a little heap of snow. “All I have to do is to keep right on sitting perfectly still, and I'll be as safe as if Whitey were nowhere about. Yes, sir, I will,” thought
Jumper. “By and by he will become tired and fly away. I do hope he'll do
that before Whitefoot comes out again. If Whitefoot should come out, I
couldn't warn him because that would draw Whitey's attention to me, and
he wouldn't look twice at a Wood Mouse when there was a chance to get a
Hare for his dinner. “This is a queer world. It is so. Old Mother Nature does queer things. Here she has given me a white coat in winter so that I may not be easily
seen when there is snow on the ground, and at the same time she has
given one of those I fear most a white coat so that he may not be easily
seen, either. It certainly is a queer world.”

Jumper forgot that Whitey was only a chance visitor from the Far North
and that it was only once in a great while that he came down there,
while up in the Far North where he belonged nearly everybody was dressed
in white. Jumper hadn't moved once, but once in a while Whitey turned his great
round head for a look all about in every direction. But it was done in
such a way that only eyes watching him sharply would have noticed it. Most of the time he kept his fierce yellow eyes fixed on the little hole
in the snow in which Whitefoot had disappeared. You know Whitey can see
by day quite as well as any other bird. Jumper, having stopped worrying about himself, began to worry about
Whitefoot. He knew that Whitefoot had seen Whitey arrive on that stump
and that was why he had dodged back into his hole and since then had not
even poked his nose out. But that had been so long ago that by this time
Whitefoot must think that Whitey had gone on about his business, and
Jumper expected to see Whitefoot appear any moment. What Jumper didn't
know was that Whitefoot's bright little eyes had all the time been
watching Whitey from another little hole in the snow some distance away. A tunnel led from this little hole to the first little hole. Suddenly off among the trees something moved. At least, Jumper thought
he saw something move. Yes, there it was, a little black spot moving
swiftly this way and that way over the snow. Jumper stared very hard. And then his heart seemed to jump right up in his throat. It did so. He
felt as if he would choke. That black spot was the tip end of a tail,
the tail of a small, very slim fellow dressed all in white, the only
other one in all the Green Forest who dresses all in white. It was
Shadow the Weasel! In his white winter coat he is called Ermine. He was running this way and that way, back and forth, with his nose to
the snow. He was hunting, and Jumper knew that sooner or later Shadow
would find him. Safety from Shadow lay in making the best possible use
of those long legs of his, but to do that would bring Whitey the
Owl swooping after him. What to do Jumper didn't know. And so he did
nothing. It happened to be the wisest thing he could do. CHAPTER XII: Whitey The Owl Saves Jumper

   It often happens in the end
   An enemy may prove a friend. --Whitefoot. Was ever any one in a worse position than Jumper the Hare? To move would
be to give himself away to Whitey the Snowy Owl. If he remained where he
was very likely Shadow the Weasel would find him, and the result would
be the same as if he were caught by Whitey the Owl. Neither Whitey nor
Shadow knew he was there, but it would be only a few minutes before one
of them knew it. At least, that is the way it looked to Jumper. Whitey wouldn't know it unless he moved, but Shadow the Weasel would
find his tracks, and his nose would lead him straight there. Back and
forth, back and forth, this way, that way and the other way, just a
little distance off, Shadow was running with his nose to the snow. He
was hunting--hunting for the scent of some one whom he could kill. In a
few minutes he would be sure to find where Jumper had been, and then his
nose would lead him straight to that tree at the foot of which Jumper
was crouching. Nearer and nearer came Shadow. He was slim and trim and didn't look at
all terrible. Yet there was no one in all the Green Forest more feared
by the little people in fur, by Jumper, by Peter Rabbit, by Whitefoot,
even by Chatterer the Red Squirrel. “Perhaps,” thought Jumper, “he won't find my scent after all. Perhaps
he'll go in another direction.” But all the time Jumper felt in his
bones that Shadow would find that scent. “When he does, I'll run,” said
Jumper to himself. “I'll have at least a chance to dodge Whitey. I am
afraid he will catch me, but I'll have a chance. I won't have any chance
at all if Shadow finds me.”

Suddenly Shadow stopped running and sat up to look about with fierce
little eyes, all the time testing the air with his nose.