[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS neurology | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS neurology]

44. Neurophysiol Clin. 2020 Jul;50(3):213-225. doi: 10.1016/j.neucli.2020.05.002.
 Epub 2020 Jun 30.

Transcranial magnetic stimulation and gait disturbances in Parkinson's disease: 
A systematic review.

Nardone R(1), Versace V(2), Brigo F(3), Golaszewski S(4), Carnicelli L(5), 
Saltuari L(6), Trinka E(7), Sebastianelli L(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Franz Tappeiner Hospital, Merano, Italy; Department 
of Neurology, Christian Doppler Klinik, Paracelsus Medical University, Salzburg, 
Austria; Spinal Cord Injury and Tissue Regeneration Center, Salzburg, Austria; 
Karl Landsteiner Institut für Neurorehabilitation und Raumfahrtneurologie, 
Salzburg, Austria. Electronic address: raffaele.nardone@asbmeran-o.it.
(2)Department of Neurorehabilitation, Hospital of Vipiteno, Vipiteno, Italy; 
Research Unit for Neurorehabilitation South Tyrol, Bolzano, Italy.
(3)Department of Neurology, Franz Tappeiner Hospital, Merano, Italy; Department 
of Neuroscience, Biomedicine and Movement Science, University of Verona, Verona, 
Italy.
(4)Department of Neurology, Christian Doppler Klinik, Paracelsus Medical 
University, Salzburg, Austria; Karl Landsteiner Institut für Neurorehabilitation 
und Raumfahrtneurologie, Salzburg, Austria.
(5)Department of Neurology, Franz Tappeiner Hospital, Merano, Italy.
(6)Department of Neurorehabilitation, Hospital of Vipiteno, Vipiteno, Italy; 
Research Unit for Neurorehabilitation South Tyrol, Bolzano, Italy; Department of 
Neurology, Hochzirl Hospital, Zirl, Austria.
(7)Department of Neurology, Christian Doppler Klinik, Paracelsus Medical 
University, Salzburg, Austria; Centre for Cognitive Neurosciences Salzburg, 
Salzburg, Austria; University for Medical Informatics and Health Technology 
(UMIT), Hall in Tirol, Austria.

Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) may offer a reliable means of 
characterizing important pathophysiologic aspects of motor impairments in 
Parkinson's disease (PD). Moreover, high-frequency repetitive TMS (rTMS), 
especially if delivered bilaterally over motor cortical regions, can have 
beneficial effects on parkinsonian motor symptoms. However, only a few studies 
have investigated the effects of rTMS on freezing of gait (FOG) and other gait 
disturbances in PD. We aimed at investigating in this narrative review the 
usefulness of TMS for exploring the pathophysiology of gait impairment and at 
evaluating the therapeutic effects of rTMS in this context. The combination of 
rTMS and treadmill training was found to enhance the effect of physical therapy. 
Use of an H-coil enables stimulation of deep regions of the brain (for example 
medial prefrontal cortex) and may be used as a target for add-on therapy in the 
future. In contrast, theta burst stimulation has proven to be ineffective in 
treating gait disturbances in PD patients. Dual-mode NIBS, in particular 
preconditioning motor cortex rTMS by transcranial direct current stimulation, 
might also represent a novel therapeutic approach for patients with gait 
disturbances. Recent studies suggest that the supplementary motor area could be 
an appropriate target for brain stimulation when treating PD patients with FOG. 
Further large sample and well-designed clinical studies are required to evaluate 
how the possible positive effects of rTMS can be sustained over time and to 
determine the optimal stimulation protocols including target, stimulation 
intensity/duration and number of sessions.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neucli.2020.05.002
PMID: 32620273 [Indexed for MEDLINE]