[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: nanoparticle drug delivery tumor targeting cancer | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: nanoparticle drug delivery tumor targeting cancer]

10. Biotechnol Adv. 2023 Oct;67:108200. doi: 10.1016/j.biotechadv.2023.108200.
Epub  2023 Jun 16.

Functionalized chitosan for cancer nano drug delivery.

Zaiki Y(1), Iskandar A(1), Wong TW(2).

Author information:
(1)Non-Destructive Biomedical and Pharmaceutical Research Centre, Smart 
Manufacturing Research Institute, Universiti Teknologi MARA Selangor, 42300 
Puncak Alam, Selangor, Malaysia; Particle Design Research Group, Faculty of 
Pharmacy, Universiti Teknologi MARA Selangor, 42300 Puncak Alam, Selangor, 
Malaysia.
(2)Non-Destructive Biomedical and Pharmaceutical Research Centre, Smart 
Manufacturing Research Institute, Universiti Teknologi MARA Selangor, 42300 
Puncak Alam, Selangor, Malaysia; Particle Design Research Group, Faculty of 
Pharmacy, Universiti Teknologi MARA Selangor, 42300 Puncak Alam, Selangor, 
Malaysia; Sino-Malaysia Molecular Oncology and Traditional Chinese Medicine 
Delivery Joint Research Centre, Medical College, Yangzhou University, 136, 
Jiangyang Middle Road, Yangzhou, Jiangsu Province, China; Faculty of Pharmacy, 
Universiti Malaya, 50603 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. Electronic address: 
wongtinwui@uitm.edu.my.

Chitosan is a biotechnological derivative of chitin receiving a widespread 
pharmaceutical and biomedical applications. It can be used to encapsulate and 
deliver cancer therapeutics with inherent pH-dependent solubility to confer drug 
targeting at tumour microenvironment and anti-cancer activity synergizing cancer 
cytotoxic drug actions. To further reduce the off-target and by-stander adverse 
effects of drugs, a high targeted drug delivery efficiency at the lowest 
possible drug doses is clinically required. The chitosan has been functionalized 
with covalent conjugates or complexes and processed into nanoparticles to 
encapsulate and control drug release, to avoid premature drug clearance, to 
deliver drugs passively and actively to cancer site at tissue, cell or 
subcellular levels, and to promote cancer cell uptake of nanoparticles through 
membrane permeabilization at higher specificity and scale. Nanomedicine 
developed using functionalized chitosan translates to significant preclinical 
improvements. Future challenges related to nanotoxicity, manufacturability, 
selection precision of conjugates and complexes as a function of cancer omics 
and their biological responses from administration site to cancer target need 
critical assessments.

Copyright © 2023 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biotechadv.2023.108200
PMID: 37331671 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.