[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: A Modern Herbal — Mrs. M. Grieve | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# A Modern Herbal — Mrs. M. Grieve — Overview

easily label as good and evil, the heavenly and the earthly, the sacred and the profane. For the State, too, is divine as well as the Church, and may have its own ideals and sacramental duties and its own prophets, even its own martyrs. The opposition of Church and State is to be regarded rather as the pursuit of one great aim, pursued by contrasted means. The ultimate aim of all true human
     activity must be in the noble words of Francis Bacon 'the
     glory of God and the relief of man's estate'.[53]

Bacon's words form a fitting starting-point for our reflections: for
they bring vividly before us both the idealism which should inspire all
who labour at the task of government and the vastness and variety of the
field with which they are concerned. Looked at in this broad light, the
history of man's common life in the world will, I think, show two great
streams of progress--the progress of man over Nature, or, as we say
to-day, in the control of his environment, and the progress of man in
what is essentially a moral task--the art of living together with his
fellows. These two aspects of human activity and effort are in constant
contact and interaction. Studied together, they reveal an advance which,
in spite of man's ever-present moral weakness, may be described as an
advance from Chaos to Cosmos in the organization of the world's common
life; yet they are so distinct in method and spirit that they can best
be described separately. Let us first, then, consider the history of Government, as a record of
the progress of man's power over Nature. Human history, in this sphere, is the story of man making himself at
home in the world. When human history begins we find men helpless,
superstitious, ignorant, the plaything of blind powers in the natural
and animal world. Superstitious because he was helpless, helpless
because he was ignorant, he eked out a bare existence rather by avoiding
than controlling the forces in the little world by which he found
himself surrounded. Human life in its earliest stages is, as Hobbes
described it, nasty, brutish, and short. Man was the slave of his
environment. He has risen to become its master. The world, as the
prophetic eye of Francis Bacon foretold, has become 'The Kingdom of
Man'. How complete this conquest is, can best be realized perhaps by
considering man's relation to the lower animals. When history opens, the
animals are in their element; it is man who is the interloper. Two
thousand years ago it was not the Society of Friends but wolves and wild
boars who felt themselves at home on the site of Bournville Garden
Village. To-day we are surprised when we read that in remote East Africa
lions and giraffes venture occasionally to interfere in the murderous
warfare between man and man. Man has imposed himself on the animals, by
dint of his gradual accumulation of knowledge and his consequent power
of organization and government. He has destroyed the conditions under
which the animals prospered. He has, as we might say, destroyed their
home life, exposing them to dangers of his own making against which they
are now as powerless as he was once against them. 'It is a remarkable
thing,' writes Sir E. Ray Lankester,

     which possibly may be less generally true than our present
     knowledge seems to suggest--that the adjustment of organisms
     to their surroundings is so severely complete in Nature
     apart from Man, that diseases are unknown as constant and
     normal phenomena under those conditions. It is no doubt
     difficult to investigate this matter, since the presence of
     Man as an observer itself implies human intervention. But it
     seems to be a legitimate view that every disease to which
     animals (and probably plants also) are liable, excepting as
     a transient and very exceptional occurrence, is due to Man's
     interference. The diseases of cattle, sheep, pigs, and
     horses are not known except in domesticated herds and those
     wild creatures to which Man's domesticated productions have
     communicated them. The trypanosome lives in the blood of
     wild game and of rats without producing mischief. The hosts
     have become tolerant of the parasite. It is only when man
     brings his unselected, humanly-nurtured races of cattle and
     horses into contact with the parasite, that it is found to
     have deadly properties. The various cattle-diseases which in
     Africa have done so much harm to native cattle, and have in
     some regions exterminated big game, have _per contra_ been
     introduced by man through his importation of diseased
     animals of his own breeding from Europe. Most, if not all,
     animals in extra-human conditions, including the minuter
     things such as insects, shellfish, and invisible aquatic
     organisms, have been brought into a condition of
     'adjustment' to their parasites as well as to the other
     conditions in which they live: it is this most difficult and
     efficient balance of Nature which Man everywhere upsets.[54]

And Sir E.