[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: biomaterial implant osseointegration titanium clin | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: biomaterial implant osseointegration titanium clinical]

26. Proc Inst Mech Eng H. 2013 May;227(5):510-22. doi: 10.1177/0954411913479300. 
Epub 2013 Mar 8.

Titanium implant with nanostructured zirconia surface promotes maturation of 
peri-implant bone in osseointegration.

Dusad A(1), Chakkalakal DA, Namavar F, Haider H, Hanisch B, Duryee MJ, Diaz A, 
Rensch A, Zhang Y, Hess R, Thiele GM, Fehringer EV.

Author information:
(1)Experimental Immunology Laboratory, Veterans Affairs Nebraska-Western Iowa 
Health Care System (VA NWIHCS), Research Services 151, Omaha, NE, USA.

The goal of the experiment outlined in this article is to improve upon 
noncemented methods of arthroplasty for clinical application in elderly 
patients. This was done by determining whether titanium implants with a novel 
nanostructured zirconia surface, which was created by ion beam-assisted 
deposition, would prevent impaired osseointegration of intramedullary implants 
in 1-year-old rats receiving a protein-deficient diet. Specifically, we asked 
whether the implant with the nanostructured zirconia surface would increase 
expression of markers of bone maturation within the remodeling of peri-implant 
woven bone. The control implants, which were made of commercially pure titanium, 
had a polished surface ex vivo but are known to acquire a microstructured 
titania surface in vivo. Ten 1-year-old rats received experimental implant 
(group A) and 10 had control (group B) implants. Ten 3-month-old rats received 
normal protein diet and the control implant (group C). Animals were euthanized 8 
weeks after implantation, and transverse sections of femur-implant samples were 
used for histology, micro-computed tomography and immunohistochemical 
evaluations. In group B, the expression of α2β1 and α5β1 integrins, which are 
known to mediate osteoblast adhesion, glycosaminoglycans, heparan sulfate and 
chondroitin sulfate, was less than half of that in group C. Important to this 
study, the zirconia surface used in group A prevented these deficiencies. 
Therefore, these results indicate that nanostructured zirconia surface created 
on clinical implants by ion beam-assisted deposition may prevent impaired 
osseointegration in elderly patients by promoting quicker maturation of 
peri-implant woven bone.

DOI: 10.1177/0954411913479300
PMID: 23637261 [Indexed for MEDLINE]