[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: crystal structure protein drug target binding | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: crystal structure protein drug target binding]

36. PLoS Comput Biol. 2014 Sep 18;10(9):e1003829. doi:
10.1371/journal.pcbi.1003829.  eCollection 2014 Sep.

eMatchSite: sequence order-independent structure alignments of ligand binding 
pockets in protein models.

Brylinski M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge, 
Louisiana, United States of America; Center for Computation & Technology, 
Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge, Louisiana, United States of America.

Detecting similarities between ligand binding sites in the absence of global 
homology between target proteins has been recognized as one of the critical 
components of modern drug discovery. Local binding site alignments can be 
constructed using sequence order-independent techniques, however, to achieve a 
high accuracy, many current algorithms for binding site comparison require 
high-quality experimental protein structures, preferably in the bound 
conformational state. This, in turn, complicates proteome scale applications, 
where only various quality structure models are available for the majority of 
gene products. To improve the state-of-the-art, we developed eMatchSite, a new 
method for constructing sequence order-independent alignments of ligand binding 
sites in protein models. Large-scale benchmarking calculations using 
adenine-binding pockets in crystal structures demonstrate that eMatchSite 
generates accurate alignments for almost three times more protein pairs than 
SOIPPA. More importantly, eMatchSite offers a high tolerance to structural 
distortions in ligand binding regions in protein models. For example, the 
percentage of correctly aligned pairs of adenine-binding sites in weakly 
homologous protein models is only 4-9% lower than those aligned using crystal 
structures. This represents a significant improvement over other algorithms, 
e.g. the performance of eMatchSite in recognizing similar binding sites is 6% 
and 13% higher than that of SiteEngine using high- and moderate-quality protein 
models, respectively. Constructing biologically correct alignments using 
predicted ligand binding sites in protein models opens up the possibility to 
investigate drug-protein interaction networks for complete proteomes with 
prospective systems-level applications in polypharmacology and rational drug 
repositioning. eMatchSite is freely available to the academic community as a 
web-server and a stand-alone software distribution at 
http://www.brylinski.org/ematchsite.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pcbi.1003829
PMCID: PMC4168975
PMID: 25232727 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.