[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: plant alkaloid biosynthesis pathway elucidation | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: plant alkaloid biosynthesis pathway elucidation]

13. Nat Plants. 2024 Dec;10(12):1875-1885. doi: 10.1038/s41477-024-01869-8. Epub 
2024 Nov 27.

Post-genomic illumination of paclitaxel biosynthesis.

Fernie AR(#)(1), Liu F(#)(2), Zhang Y(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Max Planck Institute of Molecular Plant Physiology, Potsdam-Golm, Germany. 
Fernie@mpimp-golm.mpg.de.
(2)Key Laboratory of Seed Innovation, Institute of Genetics and Developmental 
Biology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, China.
(3)Key Laboratory of Seed Innovation, Institute of Genetics and Developmental 
Biology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, China. yjzhang@genetics.ac.cn.
(4)College of Advanced Agricultural Sciences, University of Chinese Academy of 
Sciences, Beijing, China. yjzhang@genetics.ac.cn.
(#)Contributed equally

Paclitaxel rapidly became one of the most effective anticancer drugs. However, 
the production of paclitaxel is hindered by substantial challenges, particularly 
considering the significant quantities of drug required and the inherently low 
concentration of paclitaxel and its intermediates in plants. Paclitaxel is 
currently produced in a so-called semi-synthesis in which baccatin III is 
extracted from Taxus species and chemically converted to paclitaxel. Despite the 
fact that many of the intermediates of paclitaxel biosynthesis are yet to be 
experimentally determined, a set of recent papers-facilitated by the sequencing 
and assembly of three Taxus genomes-has uncovered the minimal gene sets for both 
baccatin III and paclitaxel biosynthesis. Here we summarize the key milestones 
towards our understanding of paclitaxel biosynthesis and highlight recent 
advancements made possible by genome-level analysis of potential key genes 
involved. We argue that these studies will ultimately pave the way towards the 
elucidation of the entire paclitaxel biosynthetic pathway and facilitate the 
industrial production of paclitaxel via synthetic biology approaches. However, 
several major challenges lie ahead before we can fully tap into the amazing 
curative potential that taxanes provide.

© 2024. Springer Nature Limited.

DOI: 10.1038/s41477-024-01869-8
PMID: 39604636 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: The authors declare no 
competing interests.