[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: crystal structure protein drug target binding | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: crystal structure protein drug target binding]

77. BMC Struct Biol. 2014 Jan 10;14:1. doi: 10.1186/1472-6807-14-1.

Crystal structures of IspF from Plasmodium falciparum and Burkholderia 
cenocepacia: comparisons inform antimicrobial drug target assessment.

O'Rourke PE, Kalinowska-Tłuścik J, Fyfe PK, Dawson A, Hunter WN(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Biological Chemistry and Drug Discovery, College of Life 
Sciences, University of Dundee, Dundee, DD1 5EH, UK. w.n.hunter@dundee.ac.uk.

BACKGROUND: 2C-methyl-D-erythritol-2,4-cyclodiphosphate synthase (IspF) 
catalyzes the conversion of 
4-diphosphocytidyl-2C-methyl-D-erythritol-2-phosphate to 
2C-methyl-D-erythritol-2,4-cyclodiphosphate and cytidine monophosphate in 
production of isoprenoid-precursors via the methylerythritol phosphate 
biosynthetic pathway. IspF is found in the protozoan Plasmodium falciparum, a 
parasite that causes cerebral malaria, as well as in many Gram-negative bacteria 
such as Burkholderia cenocepacia. IspF represents a potential target for 
development of broad-spectrum antimicrobial drugs since it is proven or inferred 
as essential in these pathogens and absent from mammals. Structural studies of 
IspF from these two important yet distinct pathogens, and comparisons with 
orthologues have been carried out to generate reagents, to support and inform a 
structure-based approach to early stage drug discovery.
RESULTS: Efficient recombinant protein production and crystallization protocols 
were developed, and high-resolution crystal structures of IspF from P. 
falciparum (Emphasis/Emphasis>IspF) and B. cenocepacia (BcIspF) in complex with 
cytidine nucleotides determined. Comparisons with orthologues, indicate a high 
degree of order and conservation in parts of the active site where Zn2+ is bound 
and where recognition of the cytidine moiety of substrate occurs. However, 
conformational flexibility is noted in that area of the active site responsible 
for binding the methylerythritol component of substrate. Unexpectedly, one 
structure of BcIspF revealed two molecules of cytidine monophosphate in the 
active site, and another identified citrate coordinating to the catalytic Zn2+. 
In both cases interactions with ligands appear to help order a flexible loop at 
one side of the active site. Difficulties were encountered when attempting to 
derive complex structures with other ligands.
CONCLUSIONS: High-resolution crystal structures of IspF from two important human 
pathogens have been obtained and compared to orthologues. The studies reveal new 
data on ligand binding, with citrate coordinating to the active site Zn2+ and 
when present in high concentrations cytidine monophosphate displays two binding 
modes in the active site. Ligand binding appears to order a part of the active 
site involved in substrate recognition. The high degree of structural 
conservation in and around the IspF active site suggests that any structural 
model might be suitable to support a program of structure-based drug discovery.

DOI: 10.1186/1472-6807-14-1
PMCID: PMC3927217
PMID: 24410837 [Indexed for MEDLINE]