[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: nanoparticle drug delivery tumor targeting cancer | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: nanoparticle drug delivery tumor targeting cancer]

95. Mol Pharm. 2023 May 1;20(5):2389-2401. doi:
10.1021/acs.molpharmaceut.2c00947.  Epub 2023 Apr 12.

Targeted Nanodrugs to Destroy the Tumor Extracellular Matrix Barrier for 
Improving Drug Delivery and Cancer Therapeutic Efficacy.

Chen M(1), Chen B(1), Ge X(1), Ma Q(1)(2), Gao S(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Nuclear Medicine, China-Japan Union Hospital, Jilin University, 
Changchun 130033, China.
(2)National Health Commission Key Laboratory of Radiobiology, School of Public 
Health of Jilin University, Changchun 130033, China.

One of the main reasons why most cancer patients do not respond well to 
chemotherapy is that drugs cannot accumulate in tumors at an optimal dose, 
eventually resulting in failure to prevent cancer cell growth. To improve drug 
delivery efficiency, we engineered a highly efficient tumor-targeted and 
stroma-breaking nanocarrier by the modification of iron oxide nanoparticles 
(IONPs) with a tumor-targeting peptide c(RGDyK) and a hyaluronidase (HAase) on 
the surface. The yielding nanocomplex, c(RGDyK)-HAase-IONP, targeted the tumor 
by binding integrin αvβ3 and went deeply into the tumors by the degradation of 
hyaluronic acid (HA), which was highly expressed in the tumor extracellular 
matrix (ECM). Good biostability and a low pH preferred drug release profile were 
characterized for c(RGDyK)-HAase-IONP carrying DOX in vitro. c(RGDyK)-HAase-IONP 
showed an improved tumor-targeting (2.5 times higher) effect after intravenous 
injection in the MC38 tumor-bearing mice model, as determined by whole-body 
fluorescence imaging compared to the non-targeted IONPs without HAase. After 5 
systemic treatments, c(RGDyK)-HAase-IONP/DOX (5 mg/kg of equivalent dose of DOX) 
significantly inhibited MC38 tumor growth (22.1 ± 7.4 times relative to the 
non-treated group). Elevated apoptosis and reduced proliferation in the tumor 
cell were detected in the c(RGDyK)-HAase-IONP/DOX treated tumors compared to the 
control groups. Overall, the highly efficient targeted nanocarrier 
c(RGDyK)-HAase-IONP demonstrated tremendous potency for improving drug delivery 
and tumor therapy efficacy by targeted degradation of the dense HA barrier in 
the tumor ECM. We determined that such a tumor stroma-degrading nanosystem was 
capable of reducing tumor recurrence and drug resistance and could ultimately 
improve clinical tumor treatment responses.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.molpharmaceut.2c00947
PMID: 37042638 [Indexed for MEDLINE]