[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: curcumin anti-inflammatory clinical trial randomiz | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: curcumin anti-inflammatory clinical trial randomized]

46. Eur J Nutr. 2011 Apr;50(3):151-61. doi: 10.1007/s00394-011-0188-1. Epub 2011
Mar  27.

New mechanisms and the anti-inflammatory role of curcumin in obesity and 
obesity-related metabolic diseases.

Shehzad A(1), Ha T, Subhan F, Lee YS.

Author information:
(1)School of Life Sciences, College of Natural Sciences, Kyungpook National 
University, 1370 Sangeok-dong, Buk-ku, Daegu, 702-701, Korea. 
Adeeb.shehzad@gmail.com

PURPOSE: A metabolic abnormality such as obesity is a major obstacle in the 
maintenance of the human health system and causes various chronic diseases 
including type 2 diabetes, hypertension, cardiovascular diseases, as well as 
various cancers. This study was designed to summarize the recent scientific 
knowledge regarding the anti-obesity role of curcumin (diferuloylmethane), which 
is isolated from the herb curcuma longa, known to possess anti-inflammatory 
activities. However, little is known about its exact underlying molecular 
mechanisms in the treatment of obesity and metabolic diseases. Furthermore, cell 
cultures, animal models of obesity, and few human clinical and epidemiological 
studies have added the promise for future therapeutic interventions of this 
dietary compound.
METHODS: An electronic search was performed using Science finder, Medline, 
Scopus, Google scholar and collected English language articles from 2000 to 
2010, relating to the role of curcumin in obesity and metabolic diseases.
RESULTS: Obesity has been classified as a growing epidemic and its associated 
metabolic disorders are considered a major risk to the health system. Curcumin 
interacts with specific proteins in adipocytes, pancreatic cells, hepatic 
stellate cells, macrophages, and muscle cells, where it suppresses several 
cellular proteins such as transcription factor NF-kB, STAT-3, Wnt/β-catenin and 
activates PPAR-γ, Nrf2 cell signaling pathway. In addition, curcumin 
downregulates the inflammatory cytokines, resistin and leptin, and upregulates 
adiponectin as well as other associated proteins. The interactions of curcumin 
with several signal transduction pathways reverse insulin resistance, 
hyperglycemia, hyperlipidemia, and other inflammatory symptoms associated with 
obesity and metabolic diseases.
CONCLUSION: The modulation of several cellular transduction pathways by curcumin 
has recently been extended to elucidate the molecular basis for obesity and 
obesity-related metabolic diseases. These findings might enable novel 
phytochemical treatment strategies as well as curcumin translation to the 
clinical practice for the treatment and prevention of obesity-related chronic 
diseases. Furthermore, the relatively low cost of curcumin, safety and proven 
efficacy make it advisable to include curcumin as part of healthy diet.

DOI: 10.1007/s00394-011-0188-1
PMID: 21442412 [Indexed for MEDLINE]