[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: Naples Dioscurides | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Naples Dioscurides — Overview

of the manuscript differs from the original De Materia Medica heavily. Whereas the De Materia Medica features plants, animals, and minerals, the Naples Dioscurides only features plants. It should also be noted that instead of five volumes, the Naples Dioscurides is only one. Unlike other Dioscurides, the Naples Dioscurides lists plants in alphabetical order, more in keeping with the format of a manual than the original. The plant descriptions are recorded below the illustration in two or three rather narrow columns, recalling the arrangement the earliest scroll version of the work would have had, before the codex form became near-universal. Composition 
The composition of the Naples Dioscurides differs greatly from its predecessor, De Materia Medica, and its contemporary, the Vienna Dioscurides. The Vienna Dioscurides is closer to the original text than the Naples Dioscurides. It also predates the Naples Dioscurides by one hundred years. The Vienna Dioscurides retains descriptions of animal and mineral medicine. It also differs in that it includes references to Pedanius Dioscorides through two author portraits, which are absent on the Naples Dioscurides. In fact, other copies of the Dioscurides are all much closer to the original, with only the Naples example as the outlier. Another major difference between the manuscripts is the way they are illustrated. The Naples Dioscurides features illustrations that take up one-half to two-thirds of the page. The uses of the plants are written underneath. The illustrations of the Vienna Dioscurides are full page illustrations, in contrast. A possible reason why the Naples Dioscurides only features plant information may lie with its intended use. Rather than focus on wonderfully illustrated pictures and artistic value, as the Vienna Dioscurides does, the Naples Dioscurides may have had a more practical purpose. A competing explanation for the manuscript states that it was intended as a manual rather than a gift or as part of a royal collection. This theory has some weight to it, given the fact that its sister manuscript, the Vienna Dioscurides, was manufactured for a Byzantine princess and was housed in a royal library. The Vienna Dioscurides is more richly illustrated and decorated compared to the Naples Dioscurides. The images of the Naples Dioscurides were painted naturalistically in contrast to the images of the Vienna Dioscurides. In contrast, the Naples Dioscurides was housed in a monastery, where it most likely would have served a practical purpose as a plant guide for monks. The manuscript may also have been used in the education of doctors, as marginal notes indicate that it was loaned to the Medical School of Salerno.Director of the Royal Botanic Garden, Kew, Sir Arthur Hill noted the fact that some copies of the Dioscurides held by monasteries were still actively used by the nineteenth century. With this in mind, it would appear that the Naples Dioscurides most likely served a practical purpose as a book to be read and used, rather than as a gift for royalty. Gallery

Notes

References
Crinelli, Lorenzo. Treasures from Italy's Great Libraries. New York, The Vendome Press, 1997. Hill, Arthur. "Preface" in Turrill, William Bertram. "A contribution to the botany of Athos Peninsula." Bulletin of Miscellaneous Information (Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew) 1937.4 (1937): 197. Janick, Jules and Kim E. Hummer. "The 1500th Anniversary (512-2012) of the Juliana Anicia Codex: An Illustrated Dioscoridean Recension. Chronica horticulturae. 52(3) 2012 pp. 9-15

“The Naples Dioscurides, The Met.” Metmuseum.org, 2012, www.metmuseum.org/art/collection/search/477160. Weitzmann, Kurt, ed., Age of spirituality: late antique and early Christian art, third to seventh century, no. 180, 1979, Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York, ; full text available online from The Metropolitan Museum of Art Libraries

7th-century illuminated manuscripts
Biology books
Scientific illuminated manuscripts
Byzantine illuminated manuscripts