[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: Current density | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Current density — Overview

effects. For the top and bottom layers of printed circuit boards, the maximum current density can be as high as 35 A⋅mm−2 with a copper thickness of 35 μm. Inner layers cannot dissipate as much heat as outer layers; designers of circuit boards avoid putting high-current traces on inner layers. In the semiconductors field, the maximum current densities for different elements are given by the manufacturer. Exceeding those limits raises the following problems:
 The Joule effect which increases the temperature of the component. The electromigration effect which will erode the interconnection and eventually cause an open circuit. The slow diffusion effect which, if exposed to high temperatures continuously, will move metallic ions and dopants away from where they should be. This effect is also synonymous with ageing. The following table gives an idea of the maximum current density for various materials. Even if manufacturers add some margin to their numbers, it is recommended to, at least, double the calculated section to improve the reliability, especially for high-quality electronics. One can also notice the importance of keeping electronic devices cool to avoid exposing them to electromigration and slow diffusion. In biological organisms, ion channels regulate the flow of ions (for example, sodium, calcium, potassium) across the membrane in all cells. The membrane of a cell is assumed to act like a capacitor. Current densities are usually expressed in pA⋅pF−1 (picoamperes per picofarad) (i.e., current divided by capacitance). Techniques exist to empirically measure capacitance and surface area of cells, which enables calculation of current densities for different cells. This enables researchers to compare ionic currents in cells of different sizes. In gas discharge lamps, such as flashlamps, current density plays an important role in the output spectrum produced. Low current densities produce spectral line emission and tend to favour longer wavelengths. High current densities produce continuum emission and tend to favour shorter wavelengths. Low current densities for flash lamps are generally around 10 A⋅mm−2. High current densities can be more than 40 A⋅mm−2. See also
Hall effect
Quantum Hall effect
Superconductivity
Electron mobility
Drift velocity
Effective mass
Electrical resistance
Sheet resistance
Speed of electricity
Electrical conduction
Green–Kubo relations
Green's function (many-body theory)

References 

Electromagnetic quantities
Density
Area-specific quantities