[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: laser dermatology skin treatment tattoo hair | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: laser dermatology skin treatment tattoo hair]

6. Arch Dermatol Res. 2008 Apr;300 Suppl 1:S21-30. doi:
10.1007/s00403-007-0801-6.

Basics of laser application to dermatology.

Watanabe S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, Teikyo University School of Medicine, 11-1, 
Kaga-2, Itabashi, Tokyo 173-8605, Japan. watanabe@med.teikyo-u.ac.jp

Q-switched lasers, with a pulse of light sufficiently short (nanosecond-domain) 
is demonstrated to be useful for treatment of dermal melanocytosis, blue-black 
tattoos, melanocytic nevi, and solar lentigines, although transient 
postinflammatory hyperpigmentation usually developed in the irradiated area 
during the following 3-4 months. If the postinflammatory pigmentation does not 
disappear after 1 year, incontinentia pigmenti histologica is a possibility. 
However, the pigment in café-au-lait macules responds variably to treatment. 
Melasma shows no response to laser. Therefore, accurate diagnosis is the key to 
success in the laser treatment. Laser treatment of vascular lesions is based on 
selective absorption by blood with thermal injury to the vessel wall. Therefore, 
the pulse-width of the vascular-specific lasers must be longer 
(microsecond-domain) than that of pigment-specific lasers. Because the 
wavelength of the lasers for vascular lesions, however, cannot penetrate into 
the deep areas of the skin, not all vascular lesions can be treated. Laser or 
light-assisted hair removal offers an efficient way to permanently reduce 
excessive hair growth. Skin rejuvenation is possible by laser or pulsed light 
with millisecond-domain pulse-width. Because these light sources, however, cause 
severe damage to the skin surface, the exposure energy must be reduced and the 
treatment must be combined with cooling devices. Therefore, the clinical results 
of light-assisted skin rejuvenation are not prominent. In conclusion, the 
pulse-width and wavelength of the laser light are critical parameters for laser 
treatments. If we obtain information about these parameters for specific lasers, 
we can expect the results of the treatment to be positive.

DOI: 10.1007/s00403-007-0801-6
PMID: 17962966 [Indexed for MEDLINE]