[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: Plant Resources of Tropical Africa | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Plant Resources of Tropical Africa — Overview

to complete the encyclopedia series, therefore only 9 volumes were ever published. In 2002, the series was projected to contain 16 volumes with entires for 7,000-8000 species. It was estimated that the series would include 2,500 botanical line drawings, and 2,500 species distribution maps in about 11,000 pages. The existing PROTA encyclopedia volumes been described metaphorically in the Kew Bulletin as a treasure trove of information. The Food and Agriculture Organization and Biodiversity International described PROTA 2: Vegetables as a detailed collection of ethnobotanical knowledge. Some PROTA encyclopedias have received more than 376 citations. PROTA Encyclopedia editors included individuals such as G.J. Grubben, who had led projects commissioned by the United Nations International Board for Plant Genetic Resources; and Ameenah Gurib-Fakim, a biodiversity scientist who later became the President of Mauritius. Though organized by species according to conventional botanical nomenclature, PROTA encyclopedias also include vernacular names in major African languages such as Swahili where information was available. PROTA continued to distribute its encyclopedias after the organization's retirement. As of 2019, than 30,000 PROTA encyclopedias had been printed in English and French and were distributed widely with the help of the Technical Centre for Agricultural and Rural Cooperation (CTA) and the now-retired Agromisa Foundation. Several PROTA encyclopedias are also available at the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) Headquarters' Library in Switzerland. Content 
Species articles in the PROTA encyclopedia series were written by hundreds of authors from around the world and in Africa, and cover a range of information including: 

 plant uses
 geographic distribution by African country 
 cultivation information 
 wild-collection data
 production and international trade data
 chemical properties
 botanical characteristics
 ecological information 
 conservation status

Digitization status 
Currently, all published PROTA encyclopedias volumes have been digitized and are available as Open access publications from the Wageningen University library. Several encyclopedias in the series were planned but not started at the time of PROTA's retirement in 2013. PROTA Recommends Series

Other PROTA Publications

Reception

PROTA2: Vegetables 
 According to Google Scholar PROTA 2: Vegetables has been widely cited, receiving more than 367 citations as of October, 2022. Nigerian ethnobotanists reported in 2004 that PROTA 2: Vegetables included contributions from over 100 authors and detailed cultivation practices for 280 indigenous vegetables. A 2004 report from the University Of Ile-Ife in Nigeria referenced PROTA 2: Vegetables to emphasize the importance of indigenous vegetables such as Solanum macrocarpon and Telfairia occidentalis in providing employment opportunities in informal economies and in incorporating indigenous vegetables into plant breeding programs. A 2004 book review in the Kew Bulletin regarded PROTA 2: Vegetables as being well cited, with over 1500 references. A 2004 book review in the Nordic Journal of Botany commented that PROTA 2: Vegetables "should be found on the bookshelves of every institution dealing with tropical botany, nutrition, health, and agriculture"  
A 2004 book review from the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) and Biodiversity International said that PROTA 2: Vegetables brought needed addition to literature about vegetable resources in Africa, and that many of the vegetables described in the volume are unique to Africa. The book review also commented that PROTA2: Vegetables was particular useful for its detailed collection of ethnobotanical knowledge about both domesticated and wild-harvested vegetables in Africa. PROTA3: Dyes and Tannins 
 A 2006 book review of PROTA 3: Dyes and tannins published in Economic Botany noted that "the information contained in this volume highlights a number of lesser known species, and is a rich source of interesting information for anyone working at the interface of ethnobotany and domestication, and as such is a must have."
 About 64% of the 24 authors of PROTA 3: Dyes and tannins were from Africa. PROTA11: Medicinal Plants 
 A 2014 book review of PROTA 11(2): Medicinal Plants noted that about 30% of the contributions were written by African ethnobotanists. PROTA4U Database

The PROTA 4U Database was conceived to improve access to information in PROTA's printed publications. The PROTA web database PROTA4U is a combination of PROTA’s highly standardized expert-validated review articles (PROTAbase) and yet-to-be-validated ‘starter kits’ for all other useful plants. These ‘starter kits’ are pre-filled with basic information from PROTA’s databases SPECIESLIST (important synonyms, uses, basic sources of information) and AFRIREFS (‘grey’ literature). Furthermore, the records contain the results of a meta-analysis from a large collection of agricultural and botanical databases, conducted successfully in cooperation with the ICON Group International.