[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Propulsion Mechanics | Topic: Indian Human Spaceflight Programme | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Indian Human Spaceflight Programme — Overview

of 30–40 days at once. Further advances from experience will subsequently lead to development of a space station. On 7 October 2016, Vikram Sarabhai Space Centre Director K. Sivan stated that ISRO was gearing up to conduct a critical 'crew bailout test' called ISRO Pad Abort Test to see how fast and effectively the crew module could be released safely in the event of an emergency. The tests were conducted successfully on 5 July 2018 at Satish Dhawan Space Centre, Sriharikota. This was the first of a series of tests to qualify a crew escape system technology. Parachute tests are scheduled before end of 2019 and multiple in-flight abort tests are planned starting mid 2020. India will not use any animals for life support systems testing but robots resembling humans will be used. ISRO is targeting more than 99.8% reliability for its crew escape system. ISRO plans to launch its crewed orbiter Gaganyaan atop a Geosynchronous Satellite Launch Vehicle Mk III (GSLV Mk III). About 16 minutes after lift-off, the rocket will inject the orbital vehicle into an orbit 300 to 400 km above Earth. The capsule would return for a splashdown in the Arabian Sea near the Gujarat coastline. As of May 2019, design of crew module has been completed. The spacecraft will be flown twice uncrewed for validation before conducting actual human spaceflight. As of January 2020, crew module was due to undergo testing in wind tunnel facility of Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) at National Aerospace Laboratories (NAL). The spacecraft will carry one crew in its maiden crewed mission to an orbit of . The first uncrewed flight will involve the launch of a  module which after orbiting will re-enter the atmosphere and decelerate at an altitude of  before splashing down. Infrastructure development

Launch pad 

India's maiden crewed mission is expected to take off from second launch pad. In November 2019, ISRO released tenders for augmentation of second launch pad for Gaganyaan project. A third launch pad in Sriharikota  has been proposed for India's future launch vehicles and crewed missions. Human-Rating of LVM3 

Human-rating rates the system as capable of safely transporting humans. ISRO will be building and launching 3 missions to validate the human rating of the LVM3. Existing launch facilities will be upgraded to enable them to carry out launches under Indian Human Spaceflight campaign. ISRO has been modifying propulsion modules of various stages of rocket for human rating. Theoretical parameters for human rating are expected to be achieved by August or September 2020 to be followed by simulations and three test launches. Escape System 

ISRO has successfully conducted a pad abort test to validate its launch escape system for fast and effective crew extraction in the event of an emergency. The tests were conducted successfully on 5 July 2018 at Satish Dhawan Space Centre, Sriharikota. This was the first of a series of tests to qualify a crew escape system technology. Work on parachute enlargement and new architecture are also going on. Parachute tests are scheduled before end of 2019 and multiple in-flight abort tests are planned starting mid 2020 using a liquid fueled test vehicle. A new test vehicle has been designed in early 2020 for validation of crew escape system. The vehicle has been built for in-flight escape of crew and possess propulsion on top of the module to take the module away to a safe distance. Astronaut training
In spring 2009, a full-scale mock-up of the crew capsule was built and delivered to Satish Dhawan Space Centre for training of astronauts. India was to short list 200 Indian Air Force pilots for this purpose. The selection process would begin by the candidates having to complete an ISRO questionnaire, after which they would be subjected to physical and psychological analyses. Only 4 of the 200 applicants were to be selected for the first space mission training. While two will fly, two shall act as reserve. ISRO signed a memorandum of understanding in 2009 with the Indian Air Force's Institute of Aerospace Medicine (IAM) to conduct preliminary research on psychological and physiological needs of crew and development of training facilities. IAM played a key role in determining astronaut training, design for crew capsule as per anthropometric dimensions of Indian population and a number of control and environmental systems as per psychological and physiological needs. The announcement of Gaganyaan by PM Modi immediately attracted an enthusiastic reaction from Indian diaspora and ISRO received millions of letters and emails from Indians resident as well as abroad willing to volunteer as astronauts for the project. ISRO Chairman, K. Sivan, announced in January 2019 the creation of India's Human Space Flight Centre in Bangalore for training astronauts. The  centre will train the selected astronauts in rescue and recovery operations, operations in a zero gravity environment, and monitoring of the radiation environment.