[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: graphene biomedical applications toxicity review | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: graphene biomedical applications toxicity review]

58. Acta Biomater. 2024 Sep 15;186:30-62. doi: 10.1016/j.actbio.2024.08.007. Epub
 2024 Aug 14.

Electrically conductive coatings in tissue engineering.

Kohestani AA(1), Xu Z(2), Baştan FE(3), Boccaccini AR(4), Pishbin F(5).

Author information:
(1)School of Metallurgy and Materials Engineering, College of Engineering, 
University of Tehran 11155-4563 Tehran, Iran.
(2)Institute of Biomaterials, Department of Materials Science and Engineering, 
University of Erlangen-Nuremberg, Erlangen 91058, Germany.
(3)Institute of Biomaterials, Department of Materials Science and Engineering, 
University of Erlangen-Nuremberg, Erlangen 91058, Germany; Thermal Spray 
Research and Development Laboratory, Metallurgical and Materials Engineering 
Department, Sakarya University, Esentepe Campus, 54187, Turkey.
(4)Institute of Biomaterials, Department of Materials Science and Engineering, 
University of Erlangen-Nuremberg, Erlangen 91058, Germany. Electronic address: 
aldo.boccaccini@fau.de.
(5)School of Metallurgy and Materials Engineering, College of Engineering, 
University of Tehran 11155-4563 Tehran, Iran. Electronic address: 
fspishbin@ut.ac.ir.

Recent interest in tissue engineering (TE) has focused on electrically 
conductive biomaterials. This has been inspired by the characteristics of the 
cells' microenvironment where signalling is supported by electrical stimulation. 
Numerous studies have demonstrated the positive influence of electrical 
stimulation on cell excitation to proliferate, differentiate, and deposit 
extracellular matrix. Even without external electrical stimulation, research 
shows that electrically active scaffolds can improve tissue regeneration 
capacity. Tissues like bone, muscle, and neural contain electrically excitable 
cells that respond to electrical cues provided by implanted biomaterials. To 
introduce an electrical pathway, TE scaffolds can incorporate conductive 
polymers, metallic nanoparticles, and ceramic nanostructures. However, these 
materials often do not meet implantation criteria, such as maintaining 
mechanical durability and degradation characteristics, making them unsuitable as 
scaffold matrices. Instead, depositing conductive layers on TE scaffolds has 
shown promise as an efficient alternative to creating electrically conductive 
structures. A stratified scaffold with an electroactive surface synergistically 
excites the cells through active top-pathway, with/without electrical 
stimulation, providing an ideal matrix for cell growth, proliferation, and 
tissue deposition. Additionally, these conductive coatings can be enriched with 
bioactive or pharmaceutical components to enhance the scaffold's biomedical 
performance. This review covers recent developments in electrically active 
biomedical coatings for TE. The physicochemical and biological properties of 
conductive coating materials, including polymers (polypyrrole, polyaniline and 
PEDOT:PSS), metallic nanoparticles (gold, silver) and inorganic (ceramic) 
particles (carbon nanotubes, graphene-based materials and Mxenes) are examined. 
Each section explores the conductive coatings' deposition techniques, deposition 
parameters, conductivity ranges, deposit morphology, cell responses, and 
toxicity levels in detail. Furthermore, the applications of these conductive 
layers, primarily in bone, muscle, and neural TE are considered, and findings 
from in vitro and in vivo investigations are presented. STATEMENT OF 
SIGNIFICANCE: Tissue engineering (TE) scaffolds are crucial for human tissue 
replacement and acceleration of healing. Neural, muscle, bone, and skin tissues 
have electrically excitable cells, and their regeneration can be enhanced by 
electrically conductive scaffolds. However, standalone conductive materials 
often fall short for TE applications. An effective approach involves coating 
scaffolds with a conductive layer, finely tuning surface properties while 
leveraging the scaffold's innate biological and physical support. Further 
enhancement is achieved by modifying the conductive layer with pharmaceutical 
components. This review explores the under-reviewed topic of conductive coatings 
in tissue engineering, introducing conductive biomaterial coatings and analyzing 
their biological interactions. It provides insights into enhancing scaffold 
functionality for tissue regeneration, bridging a critical gap in current 
literature.

Copyright © 2024 Acta Materialia Inc. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.actbio.2024.08.007
PMID: 39128796 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.