[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: phytotherapy systematic review clinical evidence | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: phytotherapy systematic review clinical evidence]

17. J Am Heart Assoc. 2023 Dec 5;12(23):e031676. doi: 10.1161/JAHA.123.031676.
Epub  2023 Nov 28.

Interventions to Attenuate Cardiovascular Calcification Progression: A 
Systematic Review of Randomized Clinical Trials.

Murali S(1), Smith ER(1)(2), Tiong MK(1)(2), Tan SJ(1)(2), Toussaint ND(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Nephrology The Royal Melbourne Hospital Parkville Victoria 
Australia.
(2)Department of Medicine (RMH) University of Melbourne Parkville Victoria 
Australia.

BACKGROUND: Cardiovascular calcification, characterized by deposition of calcium 
phosphate in the arterial wall and heart valves, is associated with 
cardiovascular morbidity and mortality and is commonly seen in aging, diabetes, 
and chronic kidney disease. Whether evidence-based interventions could 
significantly attenuate cardiovascular calcification progression remains 
uncertain.
METHODS AND RESULTS: We conducted a systematic review of randomized controlled 
trials involving interventions, compared with placebo, another comparator, or 
standard of care, to attenuate cardiovascular calcification. Included clinical 
trials involved participants without chronic kidney disease, and the outcome was 
cardiovascular calcification measured using radiological methods. Quality of 
evidence was determined by the Cochrane risk of bias and Grading of 
Recommendations, Assessment, Development, and Evaluations assessment. Forty-nine 
randomized controlled trials involving 9901 participants (median participants 
104, median duration 12 months) were eligible for inclusion. Trials involving 
aged garlic extract (n=6 studies) consistently showed attenuation of 
cardiovascular calcification. Trials involving 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl 
coenzyme A reductase inhibitors (n=14), other lipid-lowering agents (n=2), 
hormone replacement therapies (n=3), vitamin K (n=5), lifestyle measures (n=4), 
and omega-3 fatty acids (n=2) consistently showed no attenuation of 
cardiovascular calcification with these therapies. Trials involving 
antiresorptive (n=2), antihypertensive (n=2), antithrombotic (n=4), and 
hypoglycemic agents (n=3) showed mixed results. Singleton studies involving 
salsalate, folate with vitamin B6 and 12, and dalcetrapib showed no attenuation 
of cardiovascular calcification. Overall, Cochrane risk of bias was moderate, 
and the Grading of Recommendations, Assessment, Development, and Evaluations 
assessment for a majority of analyses was moderate certainty of evidence.
CONCLUSIONS: Currently, there are insufficient or conflicting data for 
interventions evaluated in clinical trials for mitigation of cardiovascular 
calcification. Therapy involving aged garlic extract appears most promising, but 
evaluable studies were small and of short duration.

DOI: 10.1161/JAHA.123.031676
PMCID: PMC10727339
PMID: 38014685 [Indexed for MEDLINE]