[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS neurology | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS neurology]

55. Clin Neurophysiol. 2016 Sep;127(9):3140-3155. doi:
10.1016/j.clinph.2016.06.025.  Epub 2016 Jul 5.

Single and paired pulse transcranial magnetic stimulation in drug naïve 
epilepsy.

de Goede AA(1), Ter Braack EM(2), van Putten MJAM(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Neurophysiology, MIRA - Institute for Biomedical 
Technology and Technical Medicine, University of Twente, Enschede, The 
Netherlands. Electronic address: a.a.degoede@utwente.nl.
(2)Department of Clinical Neurophysiology, MIRA - Institute for Biomedical 
Technology and Technical Medicine, University of Twente, Enschede, The 
Netherlands.
(3)Department of Clinical Neurophysiology, MIRA - Institute for Biomedical 
Technology and Technical Medicine, University of Twente, Enschede, The 
Netherlands; Department of Neurology and Clinical Neurophysiology, Medisch 
Spectrum Twente, Enschede, The Netherlands.

Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) measures cortical excitability and is 
therefore potentially suitable as an additional tool for epilepsy diagnostics 
and therapy evaluation. In this review we discuss the application of TMS in 
epilepsy research and systematically analyze single and paired pulse TMS 
outcomes from 31 drug naïve patient studies. Despite a large variety in used TMS 
protocols, there was no relation between specific protocol aspects and the 
occurrence of significant results. Protocols were often not in accordance with 
latest guidelines and recommendations. Cortical excitability, as measured by 
TMS, was increased in drug naïve epilepsy patients, being most prominent for 
generalized epilepsy. Single pulse TMS indicated a trend towards a lower resting 
motor threshold (rMT) and a prolonged cortical silent period (CSP) for 
generalized epilepsy, while inconclusive results were found for focal epilepsy. 
The paired pulse TMS outcomes, short intracortical inhibition (SICI) and long 
intracortical inhibition (LICI), showed the most consistent significant increase 
in cortical excitability in generalized and focal epilepsy patients. Future 
epilepsy research should especially focus on the interstimulus intervals 2 and 
5ms for SICI, and 250 and 300ms for LICI. Furthermore, combining TMS with 
electroencephalography (EEG) may contribute to analysis on an individual patient 
level.

Copyright © 2016 International Federation of Clinical Neurophysiology. Published 
by Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinph.2016.06.025
PMID: 27472551 [Indexed for MEDLINE]