[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: curcumin anti-inflammatory clinical trial randomiz | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: curcumin anti-inflammatory clinical trial randomized]

49. Adv Nutr. 2018 Mar 1;9(2):105-113. doi: 10.1093/advances/nmx013.

Can Curcumin Counteract Cognitive Decline? Clinical Trial Evidence and Rationale 
for Combining ω-3 Fatty Acids with Curcumin.

Kuszewski JC(1), Wong RHX(1), Howe PRC(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Clinical Nutrition Research Centre, School of Biomedical Sciences and 
Pharmacy, University of Newcastle, Callaghan, Australia.
(2)Division of Research and Innovation, University of Southern Queensland, 
Raceview, Australia.

Comment in
    Adv Nutr. 2019 Jan 1;10(1):182. doi: 10.1093/advances/nmy062.
    Adv Nutr. 2019 Jan 1;10(1):179-181. doi: 10.1093/advances/nmy066.

The rate of cognitive decline in the elderly is highly variable. One potential 
factor contributing to accelerated cognitive decline is chronic systemic 
inflammation, because it has been linked to cognitive impairment and increased 
dementia risk. Certain lifestyle factors, such as excess body weight and 
sedentary behavior, can exacerbate a proinflammatory state in older adults, 
resulting in chronic low-grade inflammation. Supplementing the diet with 
curcumin, an anti-inflammatory polyphenolic compound from the curry spice 
turmeric, is a potential approach to prevent accelerated cognitive decline by 
counteracting chronic inflammatory processes. Although the anti-inflammatory 
effects of curcumin are well established, the potential cognitive benefits of 
curcumin were discovered more recently. Several animal and epidemiologic studies 
on the effect of curcumin supplementation on cognition showed promising results; 
however, randomized controlled trials in humans are limited. In this review, we 
identified 5 randomized controlled trials, of which only 2 observed a beneficial 
effect of curcumin supplementation on cognition by improving working memory. By 
critically examining the methodologies of those studies, we identified some 
limitations, one of which is that none of the studies explored the possibility 
that anti-inflammatory mechanisms were mediating cognitive benefits (i.e., no 
study tested participants with low-grade inflammation or measured inflammatory 
biomarkers). Other factors influencing the likelihood of conclusive outcomes 
include choice of study population (cognitively unimpaired compared with 
impaired), study duration, curcumin dose and its bioavailability, and 
neurocognitive test battery. On the basis of these findings, we offer 
recommendations for future studies to examine the potential cognitive benefits 
of curcumin in humans, which include evaluating its effects on cerebral 
endothelial vasodilator function and boosting its cognitive effects by combining 
it with long-chain omega-3 (n-3) fatty acids.

DOI: 10.1093/advances/nmx013
PMCID: PMC5916424
PMID: 29659685 [Indexed for MEDLINE]