[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: A Modern Herbal — Mrs. M. Grieve | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# A Modern Herbal — Mrs. M. Grieve — Overview

influence of premature specialization, and which ensures good conditions and a sense of self-respect and community-service to all in their self-chosen line of life, whether their bent be manual or mechanical or commercial or administrative, or for working on the land or for going to sea, or towards the more special vocations of teaching or scholarship or the law or medicine or the cure of souls. No one can estimate how large a share of the unhappiness
associated with our existing social system is due to the fact that,
owing to defects in our education and our arrangements for the choice of
employment, there are myriads of square pegs in round holes. This
applies with especial force to women, to whom many of the square holes
are still inaccessible, not simply owing to the lack of opportunities
for individuals, but owing to the inhibitions of custom and, in some
cases, to narrow and retrograde professional enactments. The war has
brought women their chance, not only in the office and the workshop,
but in higher administrative and organizing positions, and not the least
of its results is the revelation of undreamt-of capacities in these
directions. In the second task, that of perfecting the adaptation between men and
their tools, we have much to learn from the industrial history of the
past. It is natural for men to enjoy 'talking shop', and this esoteric
bond of union has existed between workmen in all ages. We may be sure
that there were discussions amongst connoisseurs in the Stone Age as to
the respective merits of their flint axes, just as there are to-day
between golfers about niblicks and putters, and between surgeons as to
the technique of the extraction of an appendix. A good workman loves his
tools. He is indeed inseparable from them, as our law acknowledges by
forbidding a bankrupt's tools to be sold up. Give a good workman, in
town or country, a sympathetic listener and he is only too ready to
expatiate on his daily work. This sense of kinship between men and their
tools and material is so little understood by some of our modern expert
organizers of industry that it is worth while illustrating it at some
length. I make no apology, therefore, for quoting a striking passage
from an essay by Mr. George Bourne, who is not a trade unionist or a
student of Labour politics but an observer of English village life, who
has taken the trouble to penetrate the mind of what is commonly regarded
as the stupidest and most backward--as it is certainly the least
articulate--class of workmen in this country, the agricultural labourer
in the southern counties. 'The men', he writes,

     are commonly too modest about their work, and too
     unconscious that it can interest an outsider, to dream of
     discussing it. What they have to say would not therefore by
     itself go far in demonstration of their acquirements in
     technique. Fortunately, for proof of that we are not
     dependent on talk. Besides talk there exists another kind of
     evidence open to every one's examination, and the technical
     skill exercised in country labours may be purely deduced
     from the aptness and singular beauty of sundry country
     tools. The beauty of tools is not accidental, but inherent and
     essential. The contours of a ship's sail bellying in the
     wind are not more inevitable, nor more graceful, than the
     curves of an adze-head or of a plough-share. Cast in iron or
     steel, the gracefulness of a plough-share is more
     indestructible than the metal, yet pliant (in the limits of
     its type) as a line of English blank verse. It changes for
     different soils: it is widened out or narrowed; it is
     deep-grooved or shallow; not because of caprice at the
     foundry or to satisfy an artistic fad, but to meet the
     technical demands of the expert ploughman. The most familiar
     example of beauty indicating subtle technique is supplied by
     the admired shape of boats, which, however, is so variable
     (the statement is made on the authority of an old
     coast-guardsman) that the boat best adapted for one stretch
     of shore may be dangerous, if not entirely useless, at
     another stretch ten miles away. And as technique determines
     the design of a boat, or of a waggon, or of a plough-share,
     so it controls absolutely the fashioning of tools, and is
     responsible for any beauty of form they may possess. Of all
     tools none, of course, is more exquisite than a fiddle-bow. But the fiddle-bow never could have been perfected, because
     there would have been no call for its tapering delicacy, its
     calculated balance of lightness and strength, had not the
     violinist's technique reached such marvellous fineness of
     power. For it is the accomplished artist who is fastidious
     as to his tools; the bungling beginner can bungle with
     anything. The fiddle-bow, however, affords only one example
     of a rule which is equally well exemplified by many humbler
     tools.