[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: magnetic resonance spectroscopy metabolite brain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: magnetic resonance spectroscopy metabolite brain]

45. IEEE Trans Biomed Eng. 2024 Jun;71(6):1841-1852. doi:
10.1109/TBME.2024.3354123.  Epub 2024 May 20.

Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy Quantification Aided by Deep Estimations of 
Imperfection Factors and Macromolecular Signal.

Chen D, Lin M, Liu H, Li J, Zhou Y, Kang T, Lin L, Wu Z, Wang J, Li J, Lin J, 
Chen X, Guo D, Qu X.

OBJECTIVE: Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy (MRS) is an important technique for 
biomedical detection. However, it is challenging to accurately quantify 
metabolites with proton MRS due to serious overlaps of metabolite signals, 
imperfections because of non-ideal acquisition conditions, and interference with 
strong background signals mainly from macromolecules. The most popular method, 
LCModel, adopts complicated non-linear least square to quantify metabolites and 
addresses these problems by designing empirical priors such as basis-sets, 
imperfection factors. However, when the signal-to-noise ratio of MRS signal is 
low, the solution may have large deviation.
METHODS: Linear Least Squares (LLS) is integrated with deep learning to reduce 
the complexity of solving this overall quantification. First, a neural network 
is designed to explicitly predict the imperfection factors and the overall 
signal from macromolecules. Then, metabolite quantification is solved 
analytically with the introduced LLS. In our Quantification Network (QNet), LLS 
takes part in the backpropagation of network training, which allows the feedback 
of the quantification error into metabolite spectrum estimation. This scheme 
greatly improves the generalization to metabolite concentrations unseen in 
training compared to the end-to-end deep learning method.
RESULTS: Experiments show that compared with LCModel, the proposed QNet, has 
smaller quantification errors for simulated data, and presents more stable 
quantification for 20 healthy in vivo data at a wide range of signal-to-noise 
ratio. QNet also outperforms other end-to-end deep learning methods.
CONCLUSION: This study provides an intelligent, reliable and robust MRS 
quantification.
SIGNIFICANCE: QNet is the first LLS quantification aided by deep learning.

DOI: 10.1109/TBME.2024.3354123
PMID: 38224519 [Indexed for MEDLINE]