[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: Solidarity (Australia) | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Solidarity (Australia) — Overview

in 1949 and Cuba in 1959, which Cliff argued were not socialist revolutions. Cliff formed what was to become the British Socialist Workers Party and similar organisations spread throughout the world. United front as strategy Solidarity believes that socialists should unite with broader forces beyond the far left in campaigns for social change and subscribe to an interpretation of Leon Trotsky's idea of the "united front". They hold that the united front is a strategy informing basic assumptions about relating to reformist forces, not an organisational tactic that can be selectively applied. The late Bob Gould, described the "common orientation as ... electoral support for the Greens and then Labor under the preferential system and a broader united front tactic towards the ranks of the Greens, the trade unions and the Labor Party," in an article describing the formation of Solidarity. Oppression
Solidarity opposes nationalism, racism and all forms of homophobia and sexism. They stand for self-determination for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders. Solidarity claims to stand up for Muslims and Middle Eastern people against the rise in anti-Muslim racism they see as associated with the War on Terror. Entryism
Reportedly, Solidarity has engaged in entryist tactics within the Australian Greens. Notable members
 Ian Rintoul, spokesperson for Refugee Action Coalition
 Paddy Gibson, anti-Intervention activist, researcher at UTS Jumbunna Institute and associate producer of John Pilger documentary 'Utopia'
 Phil Griffiths, academic and author
 Chris Breen, climate change and union activist
 Anita Creasey, 2013 President, National Union of Students Western Australia
 James Supple, Editor of Solidarity publication

See also
 Socialism in Australia

References

External links
Solidarity (Australia)
International Socialist Tendency
 Marching Down Marx Street Tom O'Lincoln's Red Sites document discussing the history of the International Socialist Tendency in Australia. Trotskyist organisations in Australia
International Socialist Tendency
2008 establishments in Australia
Organizations established in 2008