[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: adaptogen ashwagandha stress cortisol clinical | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: adaptogen ashwagandha stress cortisol clinical]

7. Vet Med Sci. 2024 Sep;10(5):e1556. doi: 10.1002/vms3.1556.

Effects of ashwagandha (Withania somnifera) root extract on aging-related 
changes in healthy geriatric dogs: A randomized, double-blinded 
placebo-controlled study.

Bharani KK(1), Devarasetti AK(2), Carey L(3), Khurana A(1), Kollipaka R(4), 
Hanuman DDV(1), Chetla VS(5), Banothu AK(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Veterinary Pharmacology and Toxicology, College of Veterinary 
Science (CVSc), PVNRTVU, Hyderabad, Telangana, India.
(2)Department of Veterinary Biochemistry, College of Veterinary Science (CVSc), 
PVNRTVU, Warangal, Telangana, India.
(3)Department of Veterinary Surgery & Radiology, College of Veterinary Science 
(CVSc), PVNRTVU, Warangal, Telangana, India.
(4)Cure Pet Clinic, Hanamkonda, Telangana, India.
(5)Department of Veterinary Physiology, College of Veterinary Science (CVSc), 
PVNRTVU, Hyderabad, Telangana, India.

BACKGROUND AND AIM: This study aimed to explore the clinical potential of 
Withania somnifera/ashwagandha root extract (ARE) to mitigate age-related 
changes in healthy geriatric dogs. We hypothesized that ARE can reduce the 
effects of advancing age, including physiological changes, immune response 
decline and susceptibility to diseases, by its immunomodulatory effects.
METHODS: A randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial was conducted in 
Telangana, India, from July 2022 to September 2022. Twenty apparently healthy 
dogs, aged 8 years or older, were enrolled. The dogs were divided into two 
groups to receive ARE (15 mg/kg, once daily, orally) or a placebo control. 
Various parameters, including serum cortisol levels, haematological profiles, 
biochemical markers, antioxidant indicators and anti-inflammatory responses, 
were assessed at the initiation of study, day 30, and day 60.
RESULTS: The erythrocyte count and haemoglobin levels were significantly 
increased with ARE (p < 0.001), whereas leukocyte count decreased (p < 0.05). 
Moreover, significant decreases in important markers of liver function (alanine 
aminotransferase, aspartate aminotransferase, albumin and globulin; p < 0.001 at 
day 60), as well as kidney function markers (creatinine and blood urea nitrogen; 
p < 0.001 at days 30 and 60), were observed in ARE-treated dogs compared to the 
placebo control group. In addition, the levels of markers of oxidative stress 
(superoxide dismutase, catalase, glutathione and malondialdehyde) were 
significantly modulated by ARE intervention, indicating strong antioxidant 
effects. Interestingly, serum cortisol levels reduced significantly with ARE 
(p < 0.001). Compared to baseline, ARE significantly decreased key inflammatory 
markers, including interferon-γ, tumour necrosis factor-α, nuclear factor kappa 
light chain enhancer of activated B cells and interleukin-10 (p < 0.001) levels 
at day 60.
CONCLUSION: In conclusion, the findings of this study suggest that ARE has 
adaptogenic properties in healthy geriatric dogs by improving haematological and 
biochemical profiles, enhancing antioxidant defence, reducing stress and 
modulating inflammatory responses.

© 2024 The Author(s). Veterinary Medicine and Science published by John Wiley & 
Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/vms3.1556
PMCID: PMC11288135
PMID: 39078383 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that there are no conflicts 
of interest pertaining to the research described in this article.