[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: magnetic resonance spectroscopy metabolite brain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: magnetic resonance spectroscopy metabolite brain]

6. J Magn Reson Imaging. 2025 Jun;61(6):2404-2424. doi: 10.1002/jmri.29709. Epub 
2025 Jan 21.

The Role of Proton Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy in Neonatal and Fetal Brain 
Research.

Hui SCN(1)(2)(3), Andescavage N(1)(3)(4), Limperopoulos C(1)(2)(3)(5).

Author information:
(1)Developing Brain Institute, Children's National Hospital, Washington, D.C., 
USA.
(2)Department of Radiology, The George Washington University School of Medicine 
and Health Sciences, Washington, D.C., USA.
(3)Department of Pediatrics, The George Washington University School of Medicine 
and Health Sciences, Washington, D.C., USA.
(4)Division of Neonatology, Children's National Hospital, Washington, D.C., USA.
(5)Prenatal Pediatric Institute, Children's National Hospital, Washington, D.C., 
USA.

The biochemical composition and structure of the brain are in a rapid change 
during the exuberant stage of fetal and neonatal development. 1H-MRS is a 
noninvasive tool that can evaluate brain metabolites in healthy fetuses and 
infants as well as those with neurological diseases. This review aims to provide 
readers with an understanding of 1) the basic principles and technical 
considerations relevant to 1H-MRS in the fetal-neonatal brain and 2) the role of 
1H-MRS in early fetal-neonatal development brain research. We performed a PubMed 
search to identify original studies using 1H-MRS in neonates and fetuses to 
establish the clinical applications of 1H-MRS. The eligible studies for this 
review included original research with 1H-MRS applications to the fetal-neonatal 
brain in healthy and high-risk conditions. We ran our search between 2000 and 
2023, then added in several high-impact landmark publications from the 1990s. A 
total of 366 results appeared. After, we excluded original studies that did not 
include fetuses or neonates, non-proton MRS and non-neurological studies. 
Eventually, 110 studies were included in this literature review. Overall, the 
function of 1H-MRS in healthy fetal-neonatal brain studies focuses on measuring 
the change of metabolite concentrations during neurodevelopment and the physical 
properties of the metabolites such as T1/T2 relaxation times. For high-risk 
neonates, studies in very low birth weight preterm infants and full-term 
neonates with hypoxic-ischemic encephalopathy, along with examining the 
associations between brain biochemistry and cognitive neurodevelopment are most 
common. Additional high-risk conditions included infants with congenital heart 
disease or metabolic diseases, as well as fetuses of pregnant women with 
hypertensive disorders were of specific interest to researchers using 1H-MRS. 
EVIDENCE LEVEL: 1 TECHNICAL EFFICACY: Stage 2.

© 2025 The Author(s). Journal of Magnetic Resonance Imaging published by Wiley 
Periodicals LLC on behalf of International Society for Magnetic Resonance in 
Medicine.

DOI: 10.1002/jmri.29709
PMCID: PMC12063769
PMID: 39835523 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.