[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: laser surgery LASIK corneal refractive outcome | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: laser surgery LASIK corneal refractive outcome]

72. J Cataract Refract Surg. 2021 Jul 1;47(7):933-941. doi: 
10.1097/j.jcrs.0000000000000546.

Options and results in managing suction loss during small-incision lenticule 
extraction.

Wan KH(1), Lin TPH, Lai KHW, Liu S, Lam DSC.

Author information:
(1)From the Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, The Chinese 
University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong (Wan, Lam); Faculty of Medicine, The Chinese 
University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong (Lin); C-MER Dennis Lam & Partners Eye 
Center, C-MER International Eye Care Group, Hong Kong (Lai, Liu, Lam); 
International Eye Research Institute of The Chinese University of Hong Kong 
(Shenzhen), Shenzhen, China (Lam); C-MER (Shenzhen) Dennis Lam Eye Hospital, 
Shenzhen, China (Lam).

Suction loss is an intraoperative complication in small-incision lenticule 
extraction (SMILE) that presents a management challenge for the refractive 
surgeon. The purpose of this review is to evaluate the visual, refractive, and 
wavefront outcomes after suction loss across the different stages of SMILE with 
various respective surgical treatments. Surgical management options include 
immediate re-SMILE by redocking or delayed re-SMILE, with or without adjustment 
of the laser parameters, conversion to femtosecond laser in situ keratomileusis, 
transepithelial photorefractive keratectomy, refractive lenticule extraction, or 
pseudo-SMILE. The restart treatment module on VisuMax provides appropriate 
retreatment recommendation. Most retreatment options for suction loss, immediate 
or delayed, resulted in effective, safe, and predictable outcomes, and patients 
were satisfied with their outcomes. Based on available level II evidence, 
immediate re-SMILE with or without adjustment to the laser settings achieve 
favorable visual and refractive outcomes in handling this intraoperative 
complication across all stages of SMILE.

Copyright © 2021 Published by Wolters Kluwer on behalf of ASCRS and ESCRS.

DOI: 10.1097/j.jcrs.0000000000000546
PMID: 33315737 [Indexed for MEDLINE]