[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS neurology | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS neurology]

88. Front Neural Circuits. 2016 Sep 22;10:73. doi: 10.3389/fncir.2016.00073. 
eCollection 2016.

Characterizing and Modulating Brain Circuitry through Transcranial Magnetic 
Stimulation Combined with Electroencephalography.

Farzan F(1), Vernet M(2), Shafi MM(2), Rotenberg A(3), Daskalakis ZJ(1), 
Pascual-Leone A(2).

Author information:
(1)Temerty Centre for Therapeutic Brain Intervention, Centre for Addiction and 
Mental Health, University of Toronto Toronto, ON, Canada.
(2)Berenson-Allen Center for Non-invasive Brain Stimulation, Beth Israel 
Deaconess Medical Center, Harvard Medical School Boston, MA, USA.
(3)Berenson-Allen Center for Non-invasive Brain Stimulation, Beth Israel 
Deaconess Medical Center, Harvard Medical SchoolBoston, MA, USA; Neuromodulation 
Program, Department of Neurology, Boston Children's Hospital, Harvard Medical 
SchoolBoston, MA, USA.

The concurrent combination of transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) with 
electroencephalography (TMS-EEG) is a powerful technology for characterizing and 
modulating brain networks across developmental, behavioral, and disease states. 
Given the global initiatives in mapping the human brain, recognition of the 
utility of this technique is growing across neuroscience disciplines. 
Importantly, TMS-EEG offers translational biomarkers that can be applied in 
health and disease, across the lifespan, and in humans and animals, bridging the 
gap between animal models and human studies. However, to utilize the full 
potential of TMS-EEG methodology, standardization of TMS-EEG study protocols is 
needed. In this article, we review the principles of TMS-EEG methodology, 
factors impacting TMS-EEG outcome measures, and the techniques for preventing 
and correcting artifacts in TMS-EEG data. To promote the standardization of this 
technique, we provide comprehensive guides for designing TMS-EEG studies and 
conducting TMS-EEG experiments. We conclude by reviewing the application of 
TMS-EEG in basic, cognitive and clinical neurosciences, and evaluate the 
potential of this emerging technology in brain research.

DOI: 10.3389/fncir.2016.00073
PMCID: PMC5031704
PMID: 27713691 [Indexed for MEDLINE]