[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: pharmacognosy medicinal plant active compound isol | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: pharmacognosy medicinal plant active compound isolation]

23. J Ethnopharmacol. 2022 Jul 15;293:115307. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2022.115307.
Epub  2022 Apr 19.

Endemic medicinal plants of Ethiopia: Ethnomedicinal uses, biological activities 
and chemical constituents.

Ayalew H(1), Tewelde E(2), Abebe B(3), Alebachew Y(4), Tadesse S(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry and Pharmacognosy, School of Pharmacy, 
College of Health Sciences, Addis Ababa University, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. 
Electronic address: hiwot.ayalew@aau.edu.et.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry and Pharmacognosy, School of Pharmacy, 
College of Health Sciences, Addis Ababa University, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. 
Electronic address: eyael.tewelde@aau.edu.et.
(3)Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry and Pharmacognosy, School of Pharmacy, 
College of Health Sciences, Addis Ababa University, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. 
Electronic address: besufekad.abebe@aau.edu.et.
(4)Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry and Pharmacognosy, School of Pharmacy, 
College of Health Sciences, Addis Ababa University, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. 
Electronic address: yonatan.alebachew@aau.edu.et.
(5)Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry and Pharmacognosy, School of Pharmacy, 
College of Health Sciences, Addis Ababa University, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. 
Electronic address: solomon.tadesse@aau.edu.et.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Around 80% of Ethiopians rely on traditional 
medicinal plants to treat a variety of ailments, and the country is home to a 
number of endemic plants, making it part of East Africa's hotspot of 
biodiversity. Despite widespread acceptance of endemic medicinal plants among 
the local community, comprehensive documentation of their therapeutic uses and 
phytochemistry is lacking. This review thus provides the first comprehensive 
appraisal of traditional use, pharmacological properties and phytochemistry of 
Ethiopian endemic medicinal plants. By storing and preserving indigenous and 
scientific knowledge about the medicinal benefits of the plants, such 
documentation generates information database for the future. It also aids the 
conservation of key medicinal plants along with translational research to 
accelerate the development of pharmaceuticals.
AIM OF THE REVIEW: The aims of this review are to collect and document current 
information on the ethnopharmacological uses, phytochemistry, and biological 
activities of Ethiopian endemic medicinal plants, identify research gaps, and 
provide perspectives and suggestions for future research on the plants as 
potential sources of pharmaceuticals.
MATERIALS & METHODS: A comprehensive literature review using electronic 
databases such as Medline, Web of Science, Google Scholar, ScienceDirect, 
SpringerLink, and Wiley Online Library was conducted for collecting relevant 
information. The World Flora Online (WFO) database and the International Plant 
Names Index (IPNI) were utilized to authenticate the taxonomic information of 
the plants. Chemical structures were drawn using ChemBioDraw Ultra 12.1 and 
verified via PubChem.
RESULTS: The present review has identified 412 Ethiopian endemic plants. Out of 
the 412 endemic plants species recorded for Ethiopia 44 are medicinally valuable 
to mitigate a myriad of diseases, and nine (27.3%) of them are endangered. Our 
literature survey also found out that a total of 74 compounds were isolated and 
characterized from the endemic plants, with phenolics accounting for the 
majority of them (66.2%). The plants exhibited antimalarial, antimicrobial, 
anticancer, anthelmintic, mosquitocidal, antidiabetic, antioxidant, and 
anti-inflammatory properties.
CONCLUSION: The work has resulted in an up-to-date inventory of Ethiopia's 
endemic flora, as well as the identification of species with traditional 
medicinal uses. The pharmacological activity and phytochemistry of numerous 
endemic plants with various traditional therapeutic claims are yet to be 
researched scientifically. Scientific validation of the herbal remedies, 
including evidence-based safety and efficacy studies are, therefore, crucial. 
The endangered medicinal plants must be conserved in order for local communities 
to have access to them in the future.

Copyright © 2022 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2022.115307
PMID: 35452775 [Indexed for MEDLINE]