[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: ethnobotany traditional medicine biological activi | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: ethnobotany traditional medicine biological activity]

46. J Ethnopharmacol. 2015 May 13;165:260-85. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2015.02.021.
Epub  2015 Feb 17.

Warburgia: a comprehensive review of the botany, traditional uses and 
phytochemistry.

Leonard CM(1), Viljoen AM(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Faculty of Science, Tshwane University 
of Technology, Private Bag X680, Pretoria 0001, South Africa.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Faculty of Science, Tshwane University 
of Technology, Private Bag X680, Pretoria 0001, South Africa. Electronic 
address: viljoenam@tut.ac.za.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: The genus Warburgia (Canellaceae) is represented 
by several medicinal trees found exclusively on the African continent. 
Traditionally, extracts and products produced from Warburgia species are 
regarded as important natural African antibiotics and have been used extensively 
as part of traditional healing practices for the treatment of fungal, bacterial 
and protozoal infections in both humans and animals. We here aim to collate and 
review the fragmented information on the ethnobotany, phytochemistry and 
biological activities of ethnomedicinally important Warburgia species and 
present recommendations for future research.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Peer-reviewed articles using "Warburgia" as search term 
("all fields") were retrieved from Scopus, ScienceDirect, SciFinder and Google 
Scholar with no specific time frame set for the search. In addition, various 
books were consulted that contained botanical and ethnopharmacological 
information.
RESULTS: The ethnopharmacology, phytochemistry and biological activity of 
Warburgia are reviewed. Most of the biological activities are attributed to the 
drimane sesquiterpenoids, including polygodial, warburganal, muzigadial, 
mukaadial and ugandensial, flavonoids and miscellaneous compounds present in the 
various species. In addition to anti-infective properties, Warburgia extracts 
are also used to treat a wide range of ailments, including stomach aches, fever 
and headaches, which may also be a manifestation of infections. The need to 
record anecdotal evidence is emphasised and conservation efforts are highlighted 
to contribute to the protection and preservation of one of Africa's most coveted 
botanical resources.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2015.02.021
PMID: 25698247 [Indexed for MEDLINE]