[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: biomaterial implant osseointegration titanium clin | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: biomaterial implant osseointegration titanium clinical]

89. Refuat Hapeh Vehashinayim (1993). 2003 Jul;20(3):8-19, 98.

[The role of surface roughness in promoting osteointegration].

[Article in Hebrew]

Nasatzky E(1), Gultchin J, Schwartz Z.

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Periodontics, Hebrew University-Hadassah School of Dental Medicine, 
Jerusalem, Israel.

Scientific evidence that has been gathered in the past 20 years established that 
certain endosseous dental implants--primarily screw-type implants made of 
commercially pure titanium can be successfully utilized as anchorage for dental 
prostheses. In recent years, an effort has been made to simplify the surgical 
procedure, in order to modify clinical treatment modalities. One of the trends 
is to increasingly utilize microrough titanium implants. Roughened implant 
surfaces have a long history in implant dentistry, and the most prominent 
surface is titanium plasma-sprayed (TPS). In recent years new implant surfaces 
have emerged, so-called microrough titanium surfaces produced with reducing 
techniques such as grit-blasting with Al2O3 or TiO2 particles, sandblasting and 
acid-etching, or acid-etching alone. These different titanium surfaces have been 
tested in numerous in-vivo studies utilizing different animal models. 
Summarizing the results of these studies, it can be concluded that there is 
currently sufficient evidence that titanium implants with a microrough surfaces 
achieve a faster bone integration, a higher percentage of Bone implant Contact 
(BIC), and a higher resistance to shear documented with higher Removal Torque 
Values (RTV) when compared with titanium implants with a polished or machined 
surface. In order to understand the mechanism through which surface roughness 
modulates its effects mentioned above, recent studies used in-vitro experimental 
methods to study cell response to implant surface topography. These studies have 
shown that osteoblasts are sensitive to surface roughness, exhibiting decreased 
proliferation and a more differentiated phenotype on rougher surfaces. PGE2 
production is enhanced on rough surfaces, as is the production of TGF beta 1, 
suggesting that surface roughness can mediate autocrine and paracrine regulation 
of osteogenesis. Moreover, surface roughness was found to modulate the effect of 
systemic hormones like 1,25-(OH)2D3 on osteoblasts. The clinical advantages of 
implants with rough surface were observed in recently conducted clinical trials. 
It was found, in humans, that roughened titanium implants need shorter healing 
period before loading, 6-8 (SLA and Osseotite respectively) weeks instead of 12 
weeks. The clinical advantages of shorter healing periods are obvious. Moreover, 
it was found that certain roughened implants can be used in shorter sizes (6-8 
mm) then accepted today. The utilization of shorter implants offers the 
avoidance of extensive surgical procedures such as nerve lateralization in the 
mandible or sinus grafting in the maxilla. However, sufficient long term 
documentation is still lacking, and the predictability of such modalities has 
yet to be examined in long term prospective clinical trials.

PMID: 14515625 [Indexed for MEDLINE]