[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: Culpeper's Complete Herbal — Nicholas Culpeper | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Culpeper's Complete Herbal — Nicholas Culpeper — Overview

want to, but I want you to see it,” said he. Mrs. Whitefoot didn't appear at all anxious to go. She began to make excuses for staying right where they were. You see, she had a great love for that old home. They were sitting just outside the doorway talking about the matter when Whitefoot caught a glimpse of a swiftly moving form not far off. It was Shadow the Weasel. Neither of them breathed. Shadow passed without looking in their direction. When he was out of
sight, Mrs. Whitefoot shivered. “Let's go over to your home right away,” she whispered. “I've never seen
Shadow about here before, but now that he has been here once, he may
come again.”

“We'll start at once,” replied Whitefoot, and for once he was glad that
Shadow the Weasel was about. CHAPTER XVIII: Mrs. Whitefoot Decides On A Home

   When Mrs. Mouse makes up her mind
   Then Mr. Mouse best get behind. --Whitefoot. Whitefoot the Wood Mouse was very proud of his home. He showed it as he
led Mrs. Whitefoot there. He felt sure that she would say at once that
that would be the place for them to live. You remember that it was high
up in a tall, dead stub and had once been the home of Timmy the Flying
Squirrel. “There, my dear, what do you think of that?” said Whitefoot proudly as
they reached the little round doorway. Mrs. Whitefoot said nothing, but at once went inside. She was gone what
seemed a long time to Whitefoot, anxiously waiting outside. You see,
Mrs. Whitefoot is a very thorough small person, and she was examining
the inside of that house from top to bottom. At last she appeared at the
doorway. “Don't you think this is a splendid house?” asked Whitefoot rather
timidly. “It is very good of its kind,” replied Mrs. Whitefoot. Whitefoot's heart sank. He didn't like the tone in which Mrs. Whitefoot
had said that. “Just what do you mean, my dear?” Whitefoot asked. “I mean,” replied Mrs. Whitefoot, in a most decided way, “that it is a
very good house for winter, but it won't do at all for summer. That
is, it won't do for me. In the first place it is so high up that if we
should have babies, I would worry all the time for fear the darlings
would have a bad fall. Besides, I don't like an inside house for summer. I think, Whitefoot, we must look around and find a new home.”

As she spoke Mrs. Whitefoot was already starting down the stub. Whitefoot followed. “All right, my dear, all right,” said he meekly. “You know best. This
seems to me like a very fine home, but of course, if you don't like it
we'll look for another.”

Mrs. Whitefoot said nothing, but led the way down the tree with
Whitefoot meekly following. Then began a patient search all about. Mrs. Whitefoot appeared to know just what she wanted and turned up her nose
at several places Whitefoot thought would make fine homes. She hardly
glanced at a fine hollow log Whitefoot found. She merely poked her nose
in at a splendid hole beneath the roots of an old stump. Whitefoot
began to grow tired from running about and climbing stumps and trees and
bushes. He stopped to rest and lost sight of Mrs. Whitefoot. A moment later he
heard her calling excitedly. When he found her, she was up in a small
tree, sitting on the edge of an old nest a few feet above the ground. It was a nest that had once belonged to Melody the Wood Thrush. Mrs. Whitefoot was sitting on the edge of it, and her bright eyes snapped
with excitement and pleasure. “I've found it!” she cried. “I've found it! It is just what I have been
looking for.”

“Found what?” Whitefoot asked. “I don't see anything but an old nest of
Melody's.”

“I've found the home we've been looking for, stupid,” retorted Mrs. Whitefoot. Still Whitefoot stared. “I don't see any house,” said he. Mrs. Whitefoot stamped her feet impatiently. “Right here, stupid,” said
she. “This old nest will make us the finest and safest home that ever
was. No one will ever think of looking for us here. We must get busy at
once and fix it up.”

Even then Whitefoot didn't understand. Always he had lived either in a
hole in the ground, or in a hollow stump or tree. How they were to live
in that old nest he couldn't see at all. CHAPTER XXIX: Making Over An Old House

   A home is always what you make it. With love there you will ne'er forsake it. --Whitefoot. Whitefoot climbed up to the old nest of Melody the Wood Thrush over the
edge of which little Mrs. Whitefoot was looking down at him. It took
Whitefoot hardly a moment to get up there, for the nest was only a few
feet above the ground in a young tree, and you know Whitefoot is a very
good climber. He found Mrs. Whitefoot very much excited. She was delighted with
that old nest and she showed it. For his part, Whitefoot couldn't see
anything but a deserted old house of no use to any one. To be sure, it
had been a very good home in its time. It had been made of tiny twigs,
stalks of old weeds, leaves, little fine roots and mud. It was still
quite solid, and was firmly fixed in a crotch of the young tree.