[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: Valery Meladze | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Valery Meladze — Overview

greatest hits album Nastojashee (Really, The real Ones; Настоящее) was released. Fedor Bondarchuk filmed a video "Komediant", which was banned in Russia. On March 1, 2002 Valeriy acted in the Kremlin and later that year performed 11 concerts on a US tour. The same year Meladze took part in a First Channel project "10 songs of Moscow" and sung the song "Podmoskovnie Vechera" (, "Moscow Nights"). In 2003 he released his fifth album Nega (Нега), including the songs "C'est la vie", "Ya NE Mogu Bez Tebya" and "Oskolki Leta", which was a hit in the CIS. In early 2003 the album Sera was re-released, "Poslednij Romantik", "Samba Belogo Motilka" and "Vse tak i bilo". Also the album "Nega" () was released. In 2004 Meladze won two awards "MUZ-TV" and "Russian Music Awards" as "The Best Vocalist", "The Best Song" (Pritashenya Bolishe Net) and "The Best Duet". In 2005 Valery was "The Best Singer" again and also won an award as "The Best Duet" with "Okean I Tri Reki". He has released a compilation "Okean" for the tenth career. In 2006 Valery won award as "Singer Of Year" and became a meritorius artist of Russia. The Meladze brothers were the producers of "Fabrika Zvezd-7" in 2007. In end of 2008 Valery became People's artist of Chechnya and released a sixth studio album "Vopreki"

Awards
Meladze and Nu Virgos girl group were bestowed the title of the Best Duo of the Year at 2004 Russian Music Awards. On 2 June 2006 Meladze won the 4th Muz-TV Music Award as the Best Artist of the Year. On 24 August of the same year he was categorized as the Best Performer and the Best Artist at the MTV Russian Music Awards nominations. Valeriy is a Meritorious Artist of Russia and People's Artist of Chechnya. Discography

Studio albums

Extended plays

Compilation albums

Concert album

Filmography

Personal life
In the summer of 1989, he married an engineer, Irina, in Batumi. They have three daughters. They divorced in 2011. References

Notes

External links

 
 Biography at MTV.ru
 Profile at Muz-TV.ru 

1965 births
Living people
20th-century Russian male singers
21st-century Russian male singers
Fabrika Zvyozd
People from Batumi
Russian people of Georgian descent
Russian pop singers
Winners of the Golden Gramophone Award
Russian activists against the Russian invasion of Ukraine