[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: laser tissue interaction ablation photothermal | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: laser tissue interaction ablation photothermal]

40. Biomacromolecules. 2013 Sep 9;14(9):3027-33. doi: 10.1021/bm400839b. Epub
2013  Aug 13.

Hybrid polypeptide micelles loading indocyanine green for tumor imaging and 
photothermal effect study.

Wu L(1), Fang S, Shi S, Deng J, Liu B, Cai L.

Author information:
(1)Guangdong Key Laboratory of Nanomedicine, Institute of Biomedicine and 
Biotechnology, Shenzhen Institutes of Advanced Technology, Chinese Academy of 
Sciences, Shenzhen 518055, PR China.

Indocyanine green (ICG) is a near-infrared (NIR) fluorescence dye for extensive 
applications; however, it is limited for further biological application due to 
its poor aqueous stability in vitro, concentration-dependent aggregation, rapid 
elimination from the body, and lack of target specificity. To overcome its 
limitations, ICG was encapsulated in the core of a polymeric micelle, which 
self-assembled from amphiphilic PEG-polypeptide hybrid triblock copolymers of 
poly(ethylene glycol)-b-poly(l-lysine)-b-poly(l-leucine) (PEG-PLL-PLLeu), with 
PLLeu as the hydrophobic core and PEG as the hydrophilic shell. The ICG was 
associated with the hydrophobic core via hydrophobic interaction and also the 
hydrophilic heads through electrostatic attractive interaction. Compared with 
free ICG, PEG-PLL-PLLeu-ICG micelles significantly improved quantum yield and 
fluorescent stability. The cellular uptake experiments showed that 
PEG-PLL-PLLeu-ICG micelles have a high cellular uptake rate. And the in vivo 
experiments revealed the excellent passive tumor targeting ability and long 
circulation time of PEG-PLL-PLLeu-ICG. The above results indicated the broad 
prospects of PEG-PLL-PLLeu-ICG application in the fields of tumor diagnosis and 
imaging. In addition, temperature measurements under NIR laser irradiation and 
in vitro photothermal ablation studies proved the potential application of 
PEG-PLL-PLLeu-ICG in tumor photothermal therapy.

DOI: 10.1021/bm400839b
PMID: 23941524 [Indexed for MEDLINE]