[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: magnetic resonance spectroscopy metabolite brain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: magnetic resonance spectroscopy metabolite brain]

42. Biol Psychiatry. 2014 May 1;75(9):686-92. doi:
10.1016/j.biopsych.2013.05.022.  Epub 2013 Jul 5.

APOE genotype modulates proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy metabolites in 
the aging brain.

Gomar JJ(1), Gordon ML(2), Dickinson D(3), Kingsley PB(4), Uluğ AM(5), Keehlisen 
L(6), Huet S(6), Buthorn JJ(6), Koppel J(2), Christen E(6), Conejero-Goldberg 
C(6), Davies P(2), Goldberg TE(7).

Author information:
(1)Litwin-Zucker Research Center, The Feinstein Institute for Medical Research, 
Manhasset, New York; FIDMAG Hermanas Hospitalarias, Sant Boi de Llobregat, 
Spain.
(2)Litwin-Zucker Research Center, The Feinstein Institute for Medical Research, 
Manhasset, New York; Hofstra North Shore Long Island Jewish School of Medicine, 
Hempstead, New York.
(3)National Institute of Mental Health, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, 
Maryland.
(4)Department of Radiology, North Shore University Hospital, Manhasset, New 
York.
(5)Hofstra North Shore Long Island Jewish School of Medicine, Hempstead, New 
York; Susan and Leonard Feinstein Center for Neurosciences, The Feinstein 
Institute for Medical Research, Manhasset, New York.
(6)Litwin-Zucker Research Center, The Feinstein Institute for Medical Research, 
Manhasset, New York.
(7)Litwin-Zucker Research Center, The Feinstein Institute for Medical Research, 
Manhasset, New York; Hofstra North Shore Long Island Jewish School of Medicine, 
Hempstead, New York. Electronic address: tgoldber@nshs.edu.

Comment in
    Biol Psychiatry. 2014 May 1;75(9):672-3. doi: 
10.1016/j.biopsych.2014.02.016.

BACKGROUND: Proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy ((1)H-MRS) studies on healthy 
aging have reported inconsistent findings and have not systematically taken into 
account the possible modulatory effect of APOE genotype. We aimed to quantify 
brain metabolite changes in healthy subjects in relation to age and the presence 
of the APOE E4 genetic risk factor for Alzheimer's disease. Additionally, we 
examined these measures in relation to cognition.
METHODS: We studied a cohort of 112 normal adults between 50 and 86 years old 
who were genotyped for APOE genetic polymorphism. Measurements of (1)H-MRS 
metabolites were obtained in the posterior cingulate and precuneus region. 
Measures of general cognitive functioning, memory, executive function, semantic 
fluency, and speed of processing were also obtained.
RESULTS: General linear model analysis demonstrated that older APOE E4 carriers 
had significantly higher choline/creatine and myo-inositol/creatine ratios than 
APOE E3 homozygotes. Structural equation modeling resulted in a model with an 
excellent goodness of fit and in which the APOE × age interaction and APOE 
status each had a significant effect on (1)H-MRS metabolites (choline/creatine 
and myo-inositol/creatine). Furthermore, the APOE × age variable modulation of 
cognition was mediated by (1)H-MRS metabolites.
CONCLUSIONS: In a healthy aging normal population, choline/creatine and 
myo-inositol/creatine ratios were significantly increased in APOE E4 carriers, 
suggesting the presence of neuroinflammatory processes and greater membrane 
turnover in older carriers. Structural equation modeling analysis confirmed 
these possible neurodegenerative markers and also indicated the mediator role of 
these metabolites on cognitive performance among older APOE E4 carriers.

Copyright © 2014 Society of Biological Psychiatry. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biopsych.2013.05.022
PMCID: PMC3887136
PMID: 23831342 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: All other authors report no biomedical financial 
interests or potential conflicts of interest.