[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: Advances with Molecular Nanomaterials in Industrial Manufact | Type: OpenAlex-OA | Level: Graduate]

[OpenAlex | Materials Science | Year: 2021 | Citations: 99]

Title: Advances with Molecular Nanomaterials in Industrial Manufacturing Applications

Abstract:
Molecular nanomaterials are of prodigious reputation for their uses in the numerous industries. This article highlights established industrial potential application areas for nanoparticles. The success of nanomanufacturing depends on the strong cooperation between academia and industry in order to be informed about current needs and future challenges, to design products directly translated to the industrial sector. The selection of the appropriate method, combining synthesis of nanomaterials with required properties and limited impurities as well as scalability of the technique, is of paramount importance. Varieties of molecular nanomaterials and their synthesis, characterization, and important applications are of current interest in several industries. Improved synthetic routes and advanced characterization methods will be important to advance molecular nanomaterials for their rapid translation to industries, manufacturing many useful products, and their implication in global economic development. Nanomaterials have emerging applications in almost all modern industries including construction, textile, water, aeronautics, food, medicine, environment cosmetics, machinery, oil and gas and computer. In the current review, we have chosen some leading industries world-wide that use nanomaterials. Besides the important applications of nanomaterials in almost all spheres of human life and environment, their toxicological effects must be addressed properly to utilize these applications. There are also some obstacles to a greater impact of nanotechnology in industry including its toxicological effects in human and surrounding environments and regulations of nanomaterials use. This review addresses molecular nanomaterials synthesis strategies, characterization methods developments, and their novel industrial and other relevant application fields.