[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: magnetic resonance spectroscopy metabolite brain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: magnetic resonance spectroscopy metabolite brain]

69. Autism Res. 2013 Apr;6(2):119-33. doi: 10.1002/aur.1273. Epub 2013 Feb 21.

Proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy as a probe into the pathophysiology of 
autism spectrum disorders (ASD): a review.

Baruth JM(1), Wall CA, Patterson MC, Port JD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Psychology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota 
55905, USA. jmbaru01@louisville.edu

Proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy ((1) H-MRS) is a safe, noninvasive way of 
quantifying in vivo biochemical and metabolite concentration levels in 
individuals with Autism Spectrum Disorders (ASD). Findings to date suggest ASD 
is associated with widespread reduction in N-acetylaspartate (NAA), creatine 
plus phosphocreatine (Cr), choline-containing compounds (Cho), myo-inositol 
(mI), and glutamate plus glutamine plus gamma-Aminobutyric Acid (Glx); however, 
variable findings, and even substantial increases, are not uncommon depending on 
the study and/or region-of-interest. Widespread reduction of NAA, Cr, Cho, mI, 
and Glx in ASD likely reflects impaired neuronal function and/or metabolism 
related to abnormal neurodevelopmental processes. Future studies should attempt 
to relate (1) H-MRS findings to histological findings and control for 
variability in subject age and functioning level; this would assist in 
evaluating the relationship between (1) H-MRS metabolic levels and neuronal and 
glial cell densities, as well as neurodevelopmental process associated with ASD. 
Furthermore, more longitudinal (1) H-MRS studies are needed in both control and 
ASD subjects to attempt to standardize metabolite levels across different 
developmental periods in well-defined endophenotypes. This will provide for a 
standard rubric for which metabolic aberrations (as well as treatment responses) 
can be measured. With higher magnetic field strengths and spectral-editing 
techniques capable of quantifying less-concentrated metabolites, (1) H-MRS will 
continue to be an important tool in ASD research.

© 2013 International Society for Autism Research, Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/aur.1273
PMID: 23436782 [Indexed for MEDLINE]