[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: ethnobotany traditional medicine biological activi | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: ethnobotany traditional medicine biological activity]

91. J Ethnopharmacol. 2018 Jan 30;211:311-328. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2017.09.018.
Epub  2017 Sep 21.

Traditional wound-healing plants used in the Balkan region (Southeast Europe).

Jarić S(1), Kostić O(2), Mataruga Z(2), Pavlović D(2), Pavlović M(2), Mitrović 
M(2), Pavlović P(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Ecology, Institute for Biological Research 'Siniša Stanković', 
University of Belgrade, Bulevar Despota Stefana 142, 11060 Belgrade, Serbia. 
Electronic address: nena2000@ibiss.bg.ac.rs.
(2)Department of Ecology, Institute for Biological Research 'Siniša Stanković', 
University of Belgrade, Bulevar Despota Stefana 142, 11060 Belgrade, Serbia.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: The geographical and ecological specificity of 
the Balkan Peninsula has resulted in the development of a distinct diversity of 
medicinal plants. In the traditional culture of the Balkan peoples, plants have 
medicinal, economic and anthropological/cultural importance, which is reflected 
in the sound knowledge of their diversity and use. This study analyses the 
traditional use of medicinal plants in the treatment of wounds and the 
pharmacological characteristics of the most frequently used species.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A detailed analysis of the literature related to ethnobhe 
uses of medicinal plants in the Balkan region was carried out. Twenty-five 
studies were analysed and those plants used for the treatment of wounds were 
singled out.
RESULT: An ethnobotanical analysis showed that 128 plant species (105 wild, 22 
cultivated and 1 wild/cultivated) are used in the treatment of wounds. Their 
application is external, in the form of infusions, decoctions, tinctures, 
syrups, oils, ointments, and balms, or direct to the skin. Among those plants 
recorded, the most commonly used are Plantago major, Hypericum perforatum, 
Plantago lanceolata, Achillea millefolium, Calendula officinalis, Sambucus 
nigra, Tussilago farfara and Prunus domestica. The study showed that the 
traditional use of plants in wound healing is confirmed by in vitro and/or in 
vivo studies for P. major and P. lanceolata (3 laboratory studies for P. major 
and 2 for P. lanceolata), H. perforatum (5 laboratory studies and 3 clinical 
trials), A. millefolium (3 laboratory studies and one clinical trial), C. 
officinalis (6 laboratory studies and 1 clinical trial), S. nigra (3 laboratory 
studies) and T. farfara (one laboratory study).
CONCLUSION: The beneficial effects of using medicinal plants from the Balkan 
region to heal wounds according to traditional practices have been proven in 
many scientific studies. However, information on the quantitative benefits to 
human health of using herbal medicines to heal wounds is still scarce or 
fragmented, hindering a proper evaluation. Therefore, further studies should be 
aimed at isolating and identifying specific active substances from plant 
extracts, which could also reveal compounds with more valuable therapeutic 
properties. Furthermore, additional reliable clinical trials are needed to 
confirm those experiences encountered when using traditional medicines. A 
combination of traditional and modern knowledge could result in new 
wound-healing drugs with a significant reduction in unwanted side effects.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2017.09.018
PMID: 28942136 [Indexed for MEDLINE]