[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: MRI physics image quality artifact reduction | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: MRI physics image quality artifact reduction]

16. Magn Reson Med. 2015 Jan;73(1):318-24. doi: 10.1002/mrm.25127. Epub 2014 Jan
31.

Ripple artifact reduction using slice overlap in slice encoding for metal 
artifact correction.

den Harder JC(1), van Yperen GH(2), Blume UA(3), Bos C(4).

Author information:
(1)Medical Physics Department, Reinier de Graaf Groep, Delft, the Netherlands.
(2)MRI Technology Development Department, Philips Healthcare, Best, the 
Netherlands.
(3)Imaging Systems Department, Philips Healthcare, Hamburg, Germany.
(4)Imaging Division, University Medical Center Utrecht, Utrecht, the 
Netherlands.

PURPOSE: Multispectral imaging (MSI) significantly reduces metal artifacts. Yet, 
especially in techniques that use gradient selection, such as slice encoding for 
metal artifact correction (SEMAC), a residual ripple artifact may be prominent. 
Here, an analysis is presented of the ripple artifact and of slice overlap as an 
approach to reduce the artifact.
METHODS: The ripple artifact was analyzed theoretically to clarify its cause. 
Slice overlap, conceptually similar to spectral bin overlap in multi-acquisition 
with variable resonances image combination (MAVRIC), was achieved by reducing 
the selection gradient and, thus, increasing the slice profile width. Time 
domain simulations and phantom experiments were performed to validate the 
analyses and proposed solution.
RESULTS: Discontinuities between slices are aggravated by signal displacement in 
the frequency encoding direction in areas with deviating B0. Specifically, it 
was demonstrated that ripple artifacts appear only where B0 varies both in-plane 
and through-plane. Simulations and phantom studies of metal implants confirmed 
the efficacy of slice overlap to reduce the artifact.
CONCLUSION: The ripple artifact is an important limitation of gradient selection 
based MSI techniques, and can be understood using the presented simulations. At 
a scan-time penalty, slice overlap effectively addressed the artifact, thereby 
improving image quality near metal implants.

© 2014 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/mrm.25127
PMID: 24488701 [Indexed for MEDLINE]