[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: MRI physics image quality artifact reduction | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: MRI physics image quality artifact reduction]

29. J Magn Reson Imaging. 2016 Mar;43(3):644-54. doi: 10.1002/jmri.25025. Epub
2015  Aug 6.

Diffusion-prepared neurography of the brachial plexus with a large field-of-view 
at 3T.

Oudeman J(1), Coolen BF(1), Mazzoli V(1)(2)(3), Maas M(1), Verhamme C(4), Brink 
WM(5), Webb AG(5), Strijkers GJ(2)(6), Nederveen AJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Academic Medical Center, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(2)Biomedical NMR, Department of Biomedical Engineering, Eindhoven University of 
Technology, Nijmegen, The Netherlands.
(3)Orthopaedic Research Lab, Radboud University Medical Center, Nijmegen, The 
Netherlands.
(4)Department of Neurology, Academic Medical Center, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(5)Department of Radiology, Leiden University Medical Center, Leiden, The 
Netherlands.
(6)Biomedical Engineering and Physics, Academic Medical Center, Amsterdam, The 
Netherlands.

PURPOSE: To study diffusion-prepared neurography optimized for a large 
field-of-view (FOV) to include the neck and both shoulders. In a large FOV poor 
homogeneity of the magnetic field (B0 ) often leads to poor image quality and 
possibly to poor diagnostic accuracy. The aim was therefore to find an optimal 
(combination of) shimming method(s) for diffusion-prepared neurography in a 
large FOV.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A 3D diffusion-prepared sequence with a large FOV was 
tested with and without the use of a susceptibility-matched pillow combined with 
image-based (IB) or standard shimming in six healthy volunteers on a 3T system. 
B0 , B1 , signal to noise ratio (SNR), and contrast to noise ratio (CNR) were 
compared between all protocols. Additionally, nerve visibility, fat suppression, 
artifacts, and overall image quality were ordinally (5-point scale) assessed by 
two readers. Furthermore, correlations between B0 and B1 (offset and variation) 
and SNR, CNR, and image quality were explored.
RESULTS: The use of the susceptibility-matched pillow led to a 43% reduction of 
B0 variation over the brachial plexus compared to the situation without a pillow 
(P < 0.05). The combination of the pillow with IB-shimming and the optimized 
diffusion-prepared sequence resulted in good nerve visibility, good fat 
suppression, no artifacts that would hinder clinical diagnosis, and a good 
overall quality (median scores ≥4). Reducing B0 variation was associated with 
SNR, CNR, and the above-mentioned scored features (P < 0.05).
CONCLUSION: The use of a susceptibility-matched pillow in combination with 
IB-shimming enables robust and high-quality neurography of the complete brachial 
plexus.

© 2015 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/jmri.25025
PMID: 26251015 [Indexed for MEDLINE]