[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: magnetic resonance spectroscopy metabolite brain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: magnetic resonance spectroscopy metabolite brain]

80. Neuroimage. 2025 Oct 1;319:121444. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2025.121444.
Epub  2025 Sep 4.

Brain metabolite concentrations in neonates with congenital heart disease before 
and after cardiac surgery.

Hui SCN(1), Andescavage N(2), Ngwa JS(3), Kapse K(4), Murnick JG(5), Donofrio 
MT(6), du Plessis AJ(7), Limperopoulos C(8).

Author information:
(1)Developing Brain Institute, Children's National Hospital, Washington, D.C., 
USA; Department of Radiology, The George Washington University School of 
Medicine and Health Sciences, Washington, D.C., USA; Department of Pediatrics, 
The George Washington University School of Medicine and Health Sciences, 
Washington, D.C., USA.
(2)Developing Brain Institute, Children's National Hospital, Washington, D.C., 
USA; Department of Pediatrics, The George Washington University School of 
Medicine and Health Sciences, Washington, D.C., USA; Division of Neonatology, 
Children's National Hospital, Washington, D.C., USA.
(3)Developing Brain Institute, Children's National Hospital, Washington, D.C., 
USA; Department of Pediatrics, The George Washington University School of 
Medicine and Health Sciences, Washington, D.C., USA.
(4)Developing Brain Institute, Children's National Hospital, Washington, D.C., 
USA.
(5)Developing Brain Institute, Children's National Hospital, Washington, D.C., 
USA; Department of Radiology, The George Washington University School of 
Medicine and Health Sciences, Washington, D.C., USA; Department of Pediatrics, 
The George Washington University School of Medicine and Health Sciences, 
Washington, D.C., USA; Division of Diagnostic Imaging and Radiology, Children's 
National Hospital, Washington, D.C., USA.
(6)Department of Pediatrics, The George Washington University School of Medicine 
and Health Sciences, Washington, D.C., USA; Division of Cardiology, Children's 
National Hospital, Washington, D.C., USA.
(7)Developing Brain Institute, Children's National Hospital, Washington, D.C., 
USA; Department of Pediatrics, The George Washington University School of 
Medicine and Health Sciences, Washington, D.C., USA; Prenatal Pediatric 
Institute, Children's National Hospital, Washington, D.C., USA.
(8)Developing Brain Institute, Children's National Hospital, Washington, D.C., 
USA; Department of Radiology, The George Washington University School of 
Medicine and Health Sciences, Washington, D.C., USA; Department of Pediatrics, 
The George Washington University School of Medicine and Health Sciences, 
Washington, D.C., USA; Prenatal Pediatric Institute, Children's National 
Hospital, Washington, D.C., USA. Electronic address: 
CLimpero@childrensnational.org.

The purpose of this study was to compare brain metabolite concentrations between 
healthy and CHD neonates before and after cardiac surgery. Healthy term newborns 
and neonates with CHD were recruited prospectively. T2-weighted brain images and 
MRS data were acquired in the cerebellum, right frontal lobe and basal ganglia. 
Clinical data were extracted from the medical record. Spectra were modeled using 
Osprey. General linear model and repeated measures ANOVA were performed to 
compare metabolite measurements among different groups. All comparisons were 
adjusted for gestational age and sex. MRS data were obtained in 57 controls and 
64 with CHD neonates. Of those, 29 CHD newborns underwent both preoperative and 
postoperative scans. The most common CHD diagnoses were TGA (27%), HLHS (17%) 
and TOF (17%). Fifty percent of CHD were Class I lesion and 19% were Class IV. 
General linear model indicated that CSF-corrected tNAA, a measure of 
neurodevelopment, was significantly higher (p < 0.05) in the basal ganglia and 
right frontal lobe of healthy controls compared to preoperative and 
postoperative CHD respectively. Repeated measures ANOVA on longitudinal data 
reported significantly higher (p < 0.05) CSF-corrected tNAA in the cerebellum 
and basal ganglia of postoperative CHD; higher (p < 0.05) tCr in the right 
frontal lobe and basal ganglia of postoperative CHD and lower (p < 0.05) mI in 
the basal ganglia of postoperative CHD. There is a trend of increased (p ≤ 0.10) 
GABA+ in the cerebellum and basal ganglia of postoperative CHD. Findings 
suggested that impaired neurodevelopment was associated with critical CHD. 
Paired-wise comparisons show a slow but promising recovery with improved 
hemodynamics, energy reserve, regulation of brain activity and neuronal 
migration to the developing brain after cardiac surgery.

Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2025.121444
PMCID: PMC13093490
PMID: 40914450 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest All authors 
have nothing to declare.