[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: Quantum dot solar cell | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Quantum dot solar cell — Overview

quantum dot solar cells that the performance remained unchanged for more than 150 days of storage in air. Market Introduction Commercial Providers Although quantum dot solar cells have yet to be commercially viable on the mass scale, several small commercial providers have begun marketing quantum dot photovoltaic products. Investors and financial analysts have identified quantum dot photovoltaics as a key future technology for the solar industry. Quantum Materials Corp. (QMC) and subsidiary Solterra Renewable Technologies are developing and manufacturing quantum dots and nanomaterials for use in solar energy and lighting applications. With their patented continuous flow production process for perovskite quantum dots, QMC hopes to lower the cost of quantum dot solar cell production in addition to applying their nanomaterials to other emerging industries. QD Solar takes advantage of the tunable band gap of quantum dots to create multi-junction solar cells. By combining efficient silicon solar cells with infrared solar cells made from quantum dots, QD Solar aims to harvest more of the solar spectrum. QD Solar's inorganic quantum dots are processed with high-throughput and cost-effective technologies and are more light- and air- stable than polymeric nanomaterials. UbiQD is developing photovoltaic windows using quantum dots as fluorophores. They have designed a luminescent solar concentrator (LSC) using near-infrared quantum dots which are cheaper and less toxic than traditional alternatives. UbiQD hopes to provide semi-transparent windows that convert passive buildings into energy generation units, while simultaneously reducing the heat gain of the building. ML System S.A., a BIPV producer listed on Warsaw Stock Exchange intends to start volume production of its QuantumGlass product between 2020 and 2021. Safety Concerns 

Many heavy-metal quantum dot (lead/cadmium chalcogenides such as PbSe, CdSe) semiconductors can be cytotoxic and must be encapsulated in a stable polymer shell to prevent exposure. Non-toxic quantum dot materials such as AgBiS2 nanocrystals have been explored due to their safety and abundance; exploration with solar cells based with these materials have demonstrated comparable conversion efficiencies (> 9%) and short-circuit current densities (> 27 mA/cm2). UbiQD's CuInSe2−X quantum dot material is another example of a non-toxic semiconductor compound. See also 

 Third-generation photovoltaic cell
 Nanocrystalline silicon
 Nanoparticle
 Photoelectrochemical cell
 Organic solar cell

References

External links
Science News Online, Quantum-Dots Leap: Tapping tiny crystals' inexplicable light-harvesting talent, June 3, 2006. InformationWeek, Nanocrystal Discovery Has Solar Cell Potential, January 6, 2006. Berkeley Lab, Berkeley Lab Air-stable Inorganic Nanocrystal Solar Cells Processed from Solution, 2005. ScienceDaily, Sunny Future For Nanocrystal Solar Cells, October 23, 2005. Solar cells
Quantum dots
Quantum electronics