[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: Utricularia resupinata | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Utricularia resupinata — Overview

announcement in the Torrey Bulletin with his own discovery of Utricularia resupinata in several more locations. This was the first of the more than 6,000 officially reported specimens Tweedy collected, most of them in the Rocky Mountains: Since Tweedy’s finds deep in the Adirondack Mountains, Utricularia resupinata has been found in Canada, the eastern US as far as the Great Lakes states, and in Central America. A Range Map created by “The Floristic Synthesis of North America (BONAP)” shows the wider range for this species, though it is increasingly threatened or endangered in many States. Plant taxonomy 

At the top of the taxonomy or scientific classification offered here is the kingdom of plants (Plantae), followed by a number of “clades” or monophyletic groups composed of a common ancestor and all its lineal descendants: The clade of vascular plants (Tracheophytes); the clade of flowering plants (Angiosperms); the clade of flowering plants with two seeds on germination (Eudicots); the clade of flowering plants with only one common ancestor (Asterids); and the order of flowering plants as a subgroup of the Asterids with specific characteristics such as opposite leaves (Lamiales). This huge order of Lamiales includes 23,810 species, 1,059 genera, and is divided into 24 families of plants. Utricularia resupinata fits into all of these larger plant categories, with its family (biology)—the next category in the scientific classification—including only carnivorous plants (Lentibulariaceae). This family is made up of three genera—corkscrew plants (Genlisea), the butterworts (Pinguicula), and the bladderworts (Utricularia). Within this last group or genus of 240 species we find Utricularia resupinata, with its “synonyms” or taxon of plants that experienced a name change. Listed here is Lecticular resupinata, the name given to Ultricularia resupinata by Barnhart in 1913 and Utricularia greenei, the name given it by Oakes in 1841. Lecticular is Latin for “couch” or “cubicle” and was chosen because of the unique bract on this plant’s lower stem. The Angiosperm Phylogeny Group (APG) -- named for the clade of flowering plants—is an international group of botanists who are working to establish a standard plant taxonomy for all flowering plants. Earlier taxonomies tended to be set by a given nation or botanical school, hence a multitude of differences. The first APG system for categorizing plants was set up in 1998 with updates in 2003 (APG II), 2009 (APG III), and 2016 (APG IV). The scientific classification or taxonomy offered in this article is based on the more recent work of APG III and IV. The list offered on the US Department of Agriculture's website reveals just how immense the earth’s “Tree of Life” really is, and this eight-page list covers just the main divisions, families, orders, and classes for flowering plants in the much larger kingdom of plants. A search of this listing finds the kingdom, order, and family for Utricularia resupinata. Research history

Discovery 

“Utricularia resupinata B.D. Greene ex Bigelow” identifies the species’ scientific name with the first person to discover this flowering plant—a Massachusetts lawyer named Benjamin Daniel Greene (1793–1862), whose finding was reported in what became the standard botanical resource for that time period, with the following brief note: “Greene, M.S. Greene’s bladder wort…A small delicate species with purple flowers, discovered by B. D. Greene, Esq. at [a pond in] Tewksbury. Middlesex Co, MA.” American botanist, physician, and botanical illustrator Jacob Bigelow (1787–1879) published his first edition of Florula Bostoniensis in 1814 – a detailed survey of flora in the greater Boston region, adding neighboring New England states in later editions. Specimens in herbaria collections 

Two of Frank Tweedy’s bladderwort finds are currently in New England herbaria, one at Harvard University and the other at the University of Vermont, both collected in 1879 on the shore of Big Moose Lake, Herkimer County, NY. A herbarium (plural herbaria) is a collection of plant specimens that have been preserved for scientific study. A search of all herbaria for this species in the Mid-Atlantic Herbaria Consortium yields 609 finds, beginning with B.D. Greene’s specimen now displayed in the New York Botanical Garden, included on this list with his date of discovery, 1829. The rest of the collection ranges from then to the most recent specimen found at Lake Hartwell, S.C. on October 9, 2019, with this description: “A Colony growing en masse, on bank in area where lake waters have receded. Proliferous colony stretching far up the shore and in the turn of the cove. Leaves matted in mud, some plants producing early fruits. Flowers very pale pink.”

Early plant bladder study 

One of the early students of Utricularia resupinata and its carnivorous family (Lentibulariaceae) was Mary Treat (1830-1923), a naturalist who made major contributions in botany and entomology. She spent many hours over her microscope observing the bladders or traps along its supporting system of stems, trying to discover how “these little bladders” trapped and digested their animal prey.