[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Propulsion Mechanics | Topic: Harry Julian Allen | Type: Instruction-QA | Level: Graduate]

Question: Provide a comprehensive expert-level explanation of Harry Julian Allen in the context of Applied Sciences.

Answer:
Harry Julian Allen (April 1, 1910 – January 29, 1977), also known as Harvey Allen, was an aeronautical engineer and a Director of the NASA Ames Research Center, most noted for his "Blunt Body" theory of atmospheric entry which permitted successful recovery of orbiting spacecraft. His technique is still  used to this day.

Career
Allen was born in Maywood, Illinois on April 1, 1910. He attended Stanford University, receiving a Bachelor of Arts in engineering in 1932 and an Aeronautical Engineer professional degree in 1935.  In 1936, he joined the NACA's Langley Memorial Aeronautical Laboratory.  In 1940, he moved to the Ames Research Laboratory, where he served as Chief of the Ames Theoretical Aerodynamics Branch (1941-1945), Chief of the High-Speed Research Division (1945-1959), assistant director for Astronautics (1959-1965), and finally Center Director (1965-1969).

Research
Allen was interested in the full range of aerodynamics research, and made contributions to the study of subsonic, transonic, supersonic and hypersonic flow.  When the United States became interested in the design of ballistic missiles, Allen began research in the dynamics and thermodynamics of atmospheric reentry, as well as the effects of radiation and meteorites on space vehicles.  His most significant contribution in this area was the idea of using a blunt nose for reentry vehicles, otherwise known as his "Blunt Body" theory.  Earlier ballistic missiles, developed by both the United States and the Soviet Union, featured long nose cones with very narrow tips, which had relatively low drag when entering the atmosphere at high speeds.  However, Allen demonstrated that a blunt body, although it had greater drag, would have a detached shock wave which would transfer far less heat to the vehicle than the traditional shape with its attached shock wave.  Excessive heating was the greatest concern in the design of ballistic missiles and spacecraft, since it could melt their surface; the blunt body design solved this problem.  Allen's theory led to the design of ablative heat shields that protected the astronauts of the Mercury, Gemini and Apollo programs as their space capsules re-entered the atmosphere.

Awards and honors

Daniel Guggenheim Medal awarded by AlAA, ASME, and SAE (1969)
Fellow of the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics (1968)
Fellow of the Royal Aeronautical Society of Great Britain (1968)
Fellow of the American Astronautical Society
Fellow of the Meteoritical Society (ca. 1966)
Member of the National Academy of Engineering (1966)
NASA Medal for Exceptional Scientific Achievement (1965)
Golden Plate Award of the American Academy of Achievement (1962)
Airpower Trophy of the Air Force Association (1958)
Distinguished Service Medal of the National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics (NACA) (1957)
Wright Brothers Lectureship of the Institute of the Aerospace Sciences (1957)
Sylvanus Albert Reed Award of the Institute of the Aerospace Sciences (predecessor of the AlAA)  (1955)

References

American aerospace engineers
NASA people
Stanford University School of Engineering alumni
1910 births
1977 deaths
Fellows of the Royal Aeronautical Society
People from Maywood, Illinois
Engineers from Illinois
20th-century American engineers