[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Complex Circuit Systems | Topic: Valve audio amplifier | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Valve audio amplifier — Overview

amplifier and so the sound produced by the system. Valve preamplifiers use triodes or low-noise pentodes (EF86). Mains hum from the heater filaments is a potential problem in low-level valve stages. Modern amplifiers invariably run from the mains; as there is little need to minimise costs in expensive valve amplifiers, the heater supply is often rectified and even regulated to reduce hum to an absolute minimum. A representative valve preamp from the 1950s is the Leak 'varislope' series of preamps, which included a switchable rumble filter, a switchable scratch filter with selectable slopes and corner frequency, continuously variable treble and bass tone controls and a selection of 4 different gramophone equalisations (RIAA, ortho, RCA, 78). Valve sound

Amplifiers from and prior to this period often have a distinctive sound that today is still widely referred to as "valve sound" and "warm". This tone is not strictly caused by the use of valves rather than transistors; it is merely a sound that was originally associated with amplifiers built using valves simply because that is what was available at the time. The origins of that particular sound are in part due to:
 the typical circuit designs of the time (class A or AB1), combined with
 simple circuits with relatively little feedback, producing mainly low-harmonic distortion (feedback that could be applied was limited by phase shift in the output transformer);
 low damping factor (High Z out) output stages;
 the use of very large amounts of feedback in signal transformerless semiconductor circuits, which leads to distortion that is small but has a much larger proportion of high harmonics than in valve circuits. Factors relevant to valve equipment not designed to high-fidelity standards:
 dedicated guitar amplifiers had frequency response and distortion suited to their purpose,
 under-dimensioned and unregulated power supplies in amplifiers where power drawn varied significantly with instantaneous power output (class A not affected, classes AB1, AB2, B, increasingly so),
 poor quality output transformers in budget equipment. Notable historic designs

In addition to a range of commodity valve amplifiers, some  amplifiers were made which are still highly regarded today. Among the best known are:
 LEAK TL/12
 Williamson amplifier
 Mullard 5-10
 Quad II
 Dynaco Mark III and Stereo 70
 McIntosh MC275
 Marantz 8B and 9

Technical information
Various basic circuits have been used in designs and in various approaches to construction. See also
 Amplifier
 Audio amplifier
 Valve sound
 Valve amplifier

References

Other sources
  – about the design and construction of valve audio amplifiers
  – Compendium of articles of historic interest to people in this field
  – Contains a short introduction, the rest of the book is many photographs of some tube amplifiers. Further reading
  (A detailed discussion of the limitations of NFB as a panacea)
 Glass Audio. A long running journal devoted to tube amp construction, published by the Audio Amateur (TAA) Corp

External links
 Schematic Heaven – Free schematic archive of vintage guitar amplifier and effect schematics. The Audio Circuit – An almost complete list of manufacturers, DIY kits, materials and parts and 'how they work' sections on valve amplifiers. Theory paper on OTL designs – p 2007 archive

Valve amplifiers
Vacuum tubes
Audio amplifiers