[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: plant alkaloid biosynthesis pathway elucidation | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: plant alkaloid biosynthesis pathway elucidation]

45. Phytomedicine. 2024 Dec;135:156068. doi: 10.1016/j.phymed.2024.156068. Epub
2024  Sep 17.

A combined treatment with Ursolic acid and Solasodine inhibits colorectal cancer 
progression through the AKT1/ERK1/2-GSK-3β-β-catenin axis.

Yang Y(1), Liu P(1), Jin Y(1), Zhu H(1), Wang M(1), Jiang X(2), Gao H(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Traditional Chinese Materia Medica, Shenyang Pharmaceutical 
University, Shenyang 110016, PR China; Key Laboratory of Pharmacodynamic 
Substances Research & Translational Medicine of Immune Diseases of Shenyang, 
Shenyang Pharmaceutical University, Shenyang 110016, PR China; Key Laboratory of 
Structure-Based Drug Design & Discovery of Ministry of Education, Shenyang 
Pharmaceutical University, Shenyang 110016, PR China.
(2)School of Traditional Chinese Materia Medica, Shenyang Pharmaceutical 
University, Shenyang 110016, PR China; Key Laboratory of Pharmacodynamic 
Substances Research & Translational Medicine of Immune Diseases of Shenyang, 
Shenyang Pharmaceutical University, Shenyang 110016, PR China; Key Laboratory of 
Structure-Based Drug Design & Discovery of Ministry of Education, Shenyang 
Pharmaceutical University, Shenyang 110016, PR China. Electronic address: 
jiangxiaowen@syphu.edu.cn.
(3)School of Traditional Chinese Materia Medica, Shenyang Pharmaceutical 
University, Shenyang 110016, PR China; Key Laboratory of Pharmacodynamic 
Substances Research & Translational Medicine of Immune Diseases of Shenyang, 
Shenyang Pharmaceutical University, Shenyang 110016, PR China; Key Laboratory of 
Structure-Based Drug Design & Discovery of Ministry of Education, Shenyang 
Pharmaceutical University, Shenyang 110016, PR China. Electronic address: 
sypugaohy@163.com.

BACKGROUND: Conventional chemotherapy medications are inadequate for managing 
the primary or acquired drug resistance, high toxicity, and adverse effects of 
colorectal cancer (CRC) treatment. Ursolic acid (UA) and Solasodine (Sol) are 
natural compounds found in a wide variety of traditional medicinal plants, as 
well as in many fruits and vegetables, such as Actinidia arguta (Sieb. & Zucc) 
Planch and Solanum nigrum L.. These compounds exhibit significant anti-tumor 
activity. Recent investigations have demonstrated that a combination strategy 
using natural products exhibits greater potential in CRC treatment compared to a 
single-drug strategy.
PURPOSE: This study aimed to elucidate the potential of UA-Sol synergy against 
CRC and to investigate the mechanism of action involved in inducing apoptosis 
and inhibiting metastasis through the AKT1/ERK1/2-GSK-3β-β-catenin axis.
METHODS: The optimal ratio of UA-Sol and its synergistic effects were explored 
using an MTT assay combined with the technique of Chou Talalay. The effects of 
UA-Sol on the apoptosis, autophagy, and metastasis of CRC cells were assessed 
using Annexin V-FITC/PI, TUNEL, Immunofluorescence, Wound healing, Transwell 
migration, and western blotting. The core mechanism of action of UA-Sol against 
CRC was investigated employing network pharmacology prediction combined with 
CETSA and plasmid transfection. Finally, in vivo validation was conducted using 
mouse xenograft tumor and lung metastasis models.
RESULTS: The combination of UA and Sol synergistically inhibited CRC cell 
viability at a molar ratio of 6:24. UA-Sol induced the expression of 
pro-apoptotic and autophagy genes such as Bax/Bcl-2 and LC3, ultimately leading 
to apoptosis and autophagy in CRC cells in vitro. In addition, this combination 
inhibited MMP-9 and promoted the expression of the adhesion protein E-cadherin, 
thereby inhibiting CRC cell metastasis. Mechanistically, UA-Sol regulated the 
expression of a downstream protein GSK-3β by targeting AKT1 and ERK1/2 
inhibition. This induced a cross-talk between the MAPK cascade pathway and the 
PI3K/AKT pathway, thereby inhibiting the nuclear translocation of β-catenin and 
participating in the regulation of CRC cell processes.
CONCLUSION: UA-Sol inhibited the AKT1/ERK1/2-GSK-3β-β-catenin axis to induce 
apoptosis, autophagy and anti-metastasis by targeting AKT1 and ERK1/2 
inhibition. This dual-target drug combination strategy provides promising 
insights into the development of novel, safe, and efficient drugs for the 
treatment of CRC.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.phymed.2024.156068
PMID: 39515101 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest We declare 
that we have no financial and personal relationships with other people or 
organizations that can inappropriately influence our work, there is no 
professional or other personal interest of any nature or kind in any product, 
service and/or company that could be construed as influencing the position 
presented in, or the review of, the manuscript entitled.