[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Complex Circuit Systems | Topic: Effect of silicon anisotropy on interfacial fracture for thr | Type: Peer-Reviewed | Level: Expert]

[Semantic Scholar | Fields: Materials Science | Year: 2019 | Citations: 35]

Title: Effect of silicon anisotropy on interfacial fracture for three dimensional through-silicon-via (TSV) under thermal loading

Abstract:
Abstract The anisotropy property of silicon is a basic property which has been discussed widely in the reliability assessment of electronic components. However, the effect of silicon anisotropy on the fracture behavior of through-silicon-via (TSV) has not been discussed in the available literatures. In this paper, the effect of silicon anisotropy on the crack driving force, e.g. energy release rate (ERR), is discussed thoroughly by considering different crack depths, aspect ratios as well as heating and cooling effects in typical TSV under three dimensional (3D) conditions. A semi-empirical formula to estimate the ERR of TSV crack under thermal loading is proposed incorporating the effect of silicon anisotropy. Through numerical computation and theoretical analysis of ERR for interface crack in TSV under thermal loading, the influence of silicon crystal orientation on ERR has been presented and compared. Because of silicon anisotropy, the level of ERR under 3D case considering silicon anisotropy is much more remarkable than that of ERR under linearly isotropic 3D case and linearly isotropic 2D case, which reveals the significant role of silicon anisotropy on interface fracture of TSV. A discussion is also carried out to show the neglect of silicon anisotropy will lead to underestimation of cracking behavior for interface crack of TSV. The effect of TSV-Cu plasticity on the interface cracking behavior is also presented in which the so-called “constraint effect” is also found in the interface cracking behavior of TSV. The crack driving forces under various sizes of TSV with different crack depths are also given and discussed in this paper, which shows that the size effect also exists on the estimation of ERR for interface crack in TSV under thermal loading.