[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: MRI physics image quality artifact reduction | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: MRI physics image quality artifact reduction]

6. Magn Reson Imaging. 2022 Nov;93:108-114. doi: 10.1016/j.mri.2022.08.008. Epub 
2022 Aug 6.

Reduced field-of-view and multi-shot DWI acquisition techniques: Prospective 
evaluation of image quality and distortion reduction in prostate cancer imaging.

Lawrence EM(1), Zhang Y(2), Starekova J(3), Wang Z(4), Pirasteh A(2), Wells 
SA(3), Hernando D(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, University of Wisconsin-Madison School of Medicine 
and Public Health, Madison, WI, USA. Electronic address: elawrence@uwhealth.org.
(2)Department of Radiology, University of Wisconsin-Madison School of Medicine 
and Public Health, Madison, WI, USA; Department of Medical Physics, University 
of Wisconsin-Madison School of Medicine and Public Health, Madison, WI, USA.
(3)Department of Radiology, University of Wisconsin-Madison School of Medicine 
and Public Health, Madison, WI, USA.
(4)Department of Radiology, University of Wisconsin-Madison School of Medicine 
and Public Health, Madison, WI, USA; Department of Biomedical Engineering, 
University of Wisconsin-Madison School of Medicine and Public Health, Madison, 
WI, USA.

OBJECTIVES: To prospectively compare image quality and apparent diffusion 
coefficient (ADC) quantification for reduced field-of-view (rFOV)- and 
multi-shot echo-planar imaging (msEPI)-based diffusion weighted imaging (DWI), 
using single-shot echo-planar-imaging (ssEPI) DWI as the reference.
METHODS: Under IRB approval and after informed consent, msEPI, rFOV, and ssEPI 
DWI acquisitions were prospectively added to clinical prostate MRI exams at 
3.0 T. Image distortion was quantitatively evaluated by root-mean-squared 
displacement (dr.m.s.). Histogram-based quantitative ADC parameters were 
compared in a sub-set of patients for proven sites of prostate cancer and 
matched non-cancerous prostate. Three radiologists also independently evaluated 
the DWI sequences for subjective image quality and distortion/artifact on a 
5-point Likert scale.
RESULTS: Twenty-five patients were included (15 with proven sites of cancer). 
Average dr.m.s. demonstrated a small but statistically significant reduction in 
distortion for both rFOV and msEPI relative to ssEPI. Quantitative ADC 
parameters for prostate tumors demonstrated no significant difference across the 
3 DWI acquisitions and each acquisition demonstrated a statistically significant 
decrease in mean ADC for tumor compared to normal prostate. Qualitative reader 
assessment demonstrated favorable image quality for rFOV and msEPI, more notable 
for msEPI.
CONCLUSIONS: rFOV and msEPI DWI techniques achieved reduction in image 
distortion, improvement in image quality, and maintained reproducible ADC 
quantification compared to the standard ssEPI.

Copyright © 2022 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mri.2022.08.008
PMCID: PMC9523455
PMID: 35944809 [Indexed for MEDLINE]