[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: Moisture and Oxygen Enhance Conductivity of LiTFSI‐Doped Spi | Type: OpenAlex-OA | Level: Graduate]

[OpenAlex | Materials Science | Year: 2016 | Citations: 159]

Title: Moisture and Oxygen Enhance Conductivity of LiTFSI‐Doped Spiro‐MeOTAD Hole Transport Layer in Perovskite Solar Cells

Abstract:
Moisture is necessary to enhance the conductivity of LiTFSI-doped, hole transport layers. Photoemission spectroscopy (PES) and Hg-drop current–voltage measurements are used to study the effects of H2O vapor, dry O2, and ambient air on Li-bis(trifluoromethanesulfonyl)-imide (LiTFSI)-doped, spiro-MeOTAD. PES shows that humidity is the component of air that causes LiTFSI dopants to redistribute across spiro-MeOTAD films, leading to an enhanced conductivity. Perovskite solar cells have achieved power conversion efficiencies (PCEs) exceeding 20%.1 One of the important improvements that enabled higher PCEs was the replacement of the liquid electrolyte hole transport layer (HTL) similar to that in conventional dye-sensitized solar cells (DSSCs), with a solid state 2,2′,7,7′-tetrakis(N,N-di-p-methoxyphenylamine)-9,9′-spirobifluorene (spiro-MeOTAD) HTL.2 Improved PCEs also resulted from the addition of Li-bis(trifluoromethanesulfonyl)-imide (LiTFSI) dopants to the spiro-MeOTAD, which substantially enhanced conductivity of the HTL.3 LiTFSI is a commonly employed dopant for many other HTLs such as Poly[bis(4-phenyl)(2,4,6-trimethylphenyl)amine] (PTAA),[1],4 poly3hexylthiophene (P3HT),5 Poly[[(2,4-dimethylphenyl)imino]-1,4-phenylene(6,12-dihydro-6,6,12,12-tetraoctylindeno[1,2-b]fluorene-2,8-diyl)-1,4-phenylene] (PIF8-TAA),6 and Poly ({4,8-bis[(2-ethylhexyl)oxy]benzo [1,2-b:4,5-b′]dithiophene-2,6-diyl}{3-fluoro-2-[(ethylhexyl-2)carbonyl]thieno[3,4-b]thiophenediyl}) (PTB7)7 in perovskite solar cells. The top electrode and the spiro-MeOTAD HTL beneath are usually the most affected by extrinsic environmental conditions (O2, H2O, N2, temperature, and light).8 DSSCs with LiTFSI-doped spiro-MeOTAD as HTL need to be fabricated in ambient air in order to work.[3],9 Similarly, for perovskite solar cells it is common practice to expose the device to ambient air for several hours after fabrication in order to obtain high PCEs.9 Ambient air exposure results in electrical conductivity enhancement of LiTFSI-doped spiro-MeOTAD and is associated with oxidation reaction induced by light exposure.[3],10 Cobalt complexes were employed as alternative dopants to avoid strong reliance on photo doping of LiTFSI in spiro-MeOTAD.11 Additional chemical synthesis steps were also carried out employing AgTFSI to prepare readily oxidized spiro-MeOTAD.12 Replacement of the doped spiro-MeOTAD HTL was demonstrated using inverted solar cell structure with inorganic HTL, but additional processing steps and high temperature treatment were needed.13 LiTFSI-doped spiro-MeOTAD is still a widely used HTL in DSSC and perovskite solar cells and proved to generate higher PCEs. The standard preparation method for spin-coated, LiTFSI-doped, spiro-MeOTAD films generates a high density of pinholes with an average diameter of ≈135 nm. These pinholes form channels that wiggle within the spiro-MeOTAD film, and are thought to accelerate diffusion of gas molecules from ambient air (e.g., H2O and O2) into the perovskite layer in perovskite-based solar cells.[8] They also facilitate the outward diffusion of chemical elements/compounds, such as LiTFSI, which is hygroscopic. Therefore, ambient air exposure results in a re-distribution of LiTFSI dopants across the spiro-MeOTAD film.[8] Efforts have been made to better understand environmental effects on LiTFSI-doped spiro-MeOTAD films.[8],[11],12, 14 However, a clear understanding of the LiTFSI dopant re-distribution process and resulted effects is still lacking. It is crucial to study LiTFSI-doped spiro-MeOTAD charge dynamics under controlled environmental conditions to understand the overall current–voltage behavior of perovskite solar cells.15 We investigated the effects of environmental H2O vapor with a relative humidity (RH%) of 90% at room temperature (RT) of 25 ºC that is generated by letting a stream of dry N2 gas flow through an H2O bubbler, high purity dry O2 gas (>99.5%), and ambient air (RH 50%, RT 25 ºC) on electrical properties of hole-only devices of LiTFSI-doped spiro-MeOTAD films, using mercury drop electrode I–V measurements. We also examined chemical and electronic properties using X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) and ultraviolet photoemission spectroscopy (UPS), respectively. XPS measurments were performed to determine the main component in ambient air that drives the re-distribution of LiTFSI dopants across spiro-MeOTAD films upon ambient air exposure (Figure S1, Supporting Information). LiTFSI-doped spiro-MeOTAD films were exposed to controlled environments of H2O vapor (RH 90%, RT 25 ºC) and dry O2 gas. Afterward, the chemical states of gas-exposed films were studied using XPS. In F-1s and S-2p regions (Figure 1a,b,d,e), as-prepared films showed small peaks at ≈688.7 eV and ≈169.4 eV in the binding energy (BE) scale, respectively, and were assigned to the TFSI molecule (Figure S1, Supporting Information).16 Gradual increases in both F-1s and S-2p peaks were observed when samples were exposed to H2O vapor. By contrast, changes in XPS peak intensities for F-1s and S-2p were not observed when samples were exposed to O2. This observation reveals that re-distribution of LiTFSI within the doped spiro-MeOTAD film to reach the top surface is mainly driven by H2O vapor exposure. Unlike ambient air exposure,[8] with H2O vapor or O2 exposure we observed no changes in the spectra of the five components corresponding to the core level of C-1s (CH, CC, CN, aromatic CaO, and CO) (Figure 1c,f) of spiro-MeOTAD. In comparison with C-1s core level of ambient air exposed LiTFSI-doped spiro-MeOTAD films,[8] H2O vapor- and O2-exposed films did not show decreased C-1s core level intensity. UPS with a He−Iα source was used to study the changes in electronic properties of as-prepared, doped spiro-MeOTAD films before and after O2 and H2O vapor (RH 90%, RT 25 ºC) exposures (Figure S3, Supporting Information). For H2O vapor exposed, doped spiro-MeOTAD films, the leading edge of the highest occupied molecular orbital (HOMO), with respect to the Fermi level (w.r.t. EF), showed a gradual shift of ≈0.1 eV to lower BE (Figure S3a,b, Supporting Information). Observed shifts of the HOMO leading edge suggest p-doping of spiro-MeOTAD molecules in the presence of LiTFSI and H2O vapor. On the other hand, only subtle changes (<0.1 eV) were observed in the case of O2 exposure (Figure S3c,d, Supporting Information). At first glance, the foregoing results of O2 exposure experiment seemed to indicate that p-doping by O2 is difficult. Stable p-doped spiro-MeOTAD molecules were formed by exposure to the H2O vapor. As will be discussed in detail below, I–V measurements conducted on O2-exposed doped spiro-MeOTAD films showed higher initial conductivities than those of H2O vapor exposed films. This disparity is explained taking into account the large pressure gap between the two analytical tools: I–V measurements were conducted in N2 (1 atm) while UPS/XPS measurements were conducted under ultrahigh vacuum (≈10–10 Torr). It is expected that the majority of physisorbed O2 in the spiro-MeOTAD film desorb in vacuum.17 Therefore, care should be taken when discussing energy levels of O2-exposed spiro-MeOTAD films. A discernible leading edge of the HOMO level was observed in both H2O vapor and O2 exposed films even after 39 h of exposure, a distinctively different profile from that of ambient air-exposed films, which showed an almost complete disappearance of the HOMO leading edge after 18 h of exposure.[8] Work function (Φ) values were determined from the cutoff edges observed at the high BE side of UPS spectra (Figure S3, Supporting Information). O2-exposed films showed no changes, but shifts as high as ≈0.2 eV to lower BE were observed in films exposed to H2O vapor, suggesting p-doping. The ionization energy (IE) was calculated to be ≈4.68 eV for as-prepared doped spiro-MeOTAD films (Figure S3b,d, Supporting Information) and increased as a function of H2O vapor exposure time, reaching a saturation value of ≈4.8 eV after 6 h H2O vapor exposure. The IE value for the films exposed to O2 was constant throughout the entire O2 exposure time (IE = 4.64–4.71 eV), corroborating the XPS measurements where re-distribution of LiTFSI was minimal (Figure 1d,e). Hole-only devices consisting of top mercury drop and bottom gold electrodes were fabricated to investigate conductivity changes of LiTFSI-doped spiro-MeOTAD films under controlled environmental gas exposures of dry O2, H2O vapor (RH 90%, RT 25 ºC), and ambient air (RH 50%, RT 25 ºC). Hole-only devices were fabricated by using electrodes with a relatively high work function (e.g., Au, Hg), which presumably resulted in a close energetic alignment between HOMO of the spiro-MeOTAD layer and the Fermi energy of the electrodes. In hole-only devices, electrical conduction is mainly caused by holes.18 The gold electrode was connected to a positive bias and the mercury drop electrode was grounded, which leads to holes injection from the Au electrode to the spiro-MeOTAD film (Figure 2d, inset). The mercury drop system allowed conductivity measurements directly on the organic semiconductor films without the need to deposit the top electrode metal or new samples for every measurement.19 Under an applied electric field, current densities (J) were recorded, from which conductivities (σ) were calculated and plotted for the as-prepared, ambient air (RH 50%), H2O vapor (RH 90%), and dry O2-exposed doped spiro-MeOTAD films (Figure 2a–c). As shown above, XPS showed that LiTFSI-doped films need ≈6 h of H2O vapor exposure for LiTFSI to be redistributed across the film. Based on these results, LiTFSI-doped films were exposed to controlled environments for 6 h at the beginning, followed by additional 18 h (24 h total). As-prepared doped spiro-MeOTAD films showed conductivity values of ≈10–9 (Ω cm)–1 at electric field <104 V cm–1 (Figure 2a–c). Interestingly, I–V data showed that 6 h exposure to ambient air, H2O vapor, or O2 substantially increased electrical conductivity of the films, especially at low electric field, and additional 18 h of ambient air, H2O vapor, or O2 exposure also caused another substantial increase (Figure S4, Supporting Information). Samples exposed to ambient air showed an increase in conductivity of more than three orders of magnitude, while individually, O2 and H2O vapor-exposed samples showed an increase of about two orders of magnitude. Dry-O2-exposed films showed higher conductivity values compared to those from H2O-exposed films. Abate et al.20 proposed a two-process mechanism: (1) equilibrium between spiro-MeOTAD and oxidized spiro-MeOTAD+ (spiro-MeOTAD + O2 ↔ spiro-MeOTAD+⋅O2–); (2) the equilibrium can move forward in the presence of LiTFSI where the superoxide O2– reacts with Li+ to form Li2O and Li2O2 generating stable spiro-MeOTAD+⋅TFSI– (spiro-MeOTAD+⋅O2– + LiTFSI ↔ spiro-MeOTAD+⋅TFSI– + LixOy). The presence of both spiro-MeOTAD+⋅O2– and spiro-MeOTAD+⋅TFSI– is associated with high conductivities.[3],[8],10, 20 In the presence of O2 or H2O, there are O2 molecules, H+, and OH– ions available for oxidation or reduction. The redox reaction is expected to play a major role in determining conductivity of LiTFSI-doped spiro-MeOTAD films. De Leeuw and co-workers reported that charged p-type organic semiconductors can be easily attacked in a reaction that reduces H2O leading into neutral organic semiconductor.21 The analysis of conductivity of the LiTFSI-doped spiro-MeOTAD films when they are exposed to ambient air and compared to individual exposures of dry-O2 and H2O is complex. Nonlinear relationship is obtained as the conductivity of air-exposed films is much higher (about one order of magnitude) than summation of individual H2O and O2 exposed spiro-MeOTAD films. Additional experiments are being planned to understand the fundamental aspects of simultaneous H2O and O2 molecules interactions with the LiTFSI-doped spiro-MeOTAD films. However, conductivity behaved differently in subsequent I–V scans. O2-exposed films showed a gradual decrease in conductivity with subsequent scans. After the third scan, a decay of two orders in magnitude was observed when compared to the first scan (Figure 2c). A small decrease (less than one order of magnitude) in conductivity was observed in the case of films exposed to ambient air (Figure 2a). On the contrary, there was almost no decrease in conductivity in the case of films exposed to H2O vapor (Figure 2b), indicating that stable, doped spiro-MeOTAD molecules and/or complexes were formed; this was corroborated by UPS/XPS results. In addition, undoped spiro-MeOTAD films showed an increase in conductivity of about two orders of magnitude after 24 h of ambient air exposure (Figure 2d). Furthermore, we studied changes in mobility values of LiTFSI-doped spiro-MeOTAD films using the space charge limited current (SCLC) model.22 In our previous work,23 the interactions of O2 and H2O gas molecules with vacuum evaporated pristine spiro-MeOTAD films showed deterioration in the hole mobility based on our organic field effect transistor devices. On the other hand, I–V data obtained on spin-coated LiTFSI-doped spiro-MeOTAD samples in the current work were fitted to SCLC model and then mobility values were extracted. Mobility of LiTFSI-doped spiro-MeOTAD increased by more than two orders of magnitude (4.7 × 10−5 cm2 V–1 s–1 → 1.5 × 10−2 cm2 V–1 s–1) after 24 h of ambient air exposure (RH 50%) (Table 1). Extracted mobility values of ambient air-exposed films are consistent with previously reported values.24 By contrast, after 24 h of O2 exposure, mobility increase was about an order of magnitude, with an approximately fivefold increase in the case of H2O vapor exposure (RH 90%) (Table 1). On the other hand, when doped films were exposed to O2, (current density) J decreased dramatically with the second and third I–V scans (Figure 3b). In comparison, only a small decrease in J was observed in the case of films exposed to ambient air (Figure 3a) and no decrease was seen in films exposed to H2O vapor (Figure 3c). These observations suggest that both H2O vapor and O2 play important roles in the electrical enhancement of LiTFSI-doped spiro-MeOTAD, but the enhancement induced by H2O vapor exposure is mainly caused by the re-distribution of LiTFSI (confirmed by XPS).[8] However, in the case of O2-exposed samples it seems that O2 serves as an electron trap, resulting in p-doping of the film, which can be reversibly influenced by the applied bias.25 On the other hand, it was challenging to extract mobility values from the pristine spiro-MeOTAD films, because higher electric field was needed to reach SCLC region. In summary, we revealed the mechanisms that drive the conductivity enhancement of LiTFSI-doped spiro-MeOTAD HTLs, eventually leading to PCEs' enhancement in perovskite solar cells. Combined techniques of photoemission spectroscopy and hole-only devices I–V measurements revealed influences of H2O vapor (RH 90%, RT 25 ºC), dry O2, and ambient air (RH 50%, RT 25 ºC) on electrical properties of LiTFSI-doped spiro-MeOTAD HTLs. H2O vapor exposure resulted in an irreversible enhancement of LiTFSI-doped HTL conductivity. XPS showed that this enhancement was mainly due to LiTFSI re-distribution across the HTL and it was almost independent of the applied bias. On the other hand, O2 exposure resulted in a reversible enhancement under applied bias in the devices. This enhancement was due to O2 doping, which was confirmed by UPS and specifically after long O2 exposure times (39 h). I–V measurements on air-exposed samples showed more than four orders of magnitude increase in conductivity compared to about two orders of magnitude in each of the H2O vapor and O2 exposed films. Such a combined effect is believed to be the major cause of the increased cell performance when perovskite solar cells are exposed to ambient air for a period of time (typically several hours). Doped spiro-MeOTAD solution (Figure S1, Supporting Information) was prepared according to the standard literature procedure,[3] where spiro-MeOTAD was dissolved in chlorobenzene and mixed with 4-tert-butylpyridine (t-BP) and LiTFSI dissolved in acetonitrile (52 mg per 100 μL). Final solutions had concentrations of (56.4 × 10–3 m) of spiro-MeOTAD, (187.9 × 10–3 m) of LiTFSI, and (30.46 × 10–3 m) of t-BP. Therefore, corresponding molar ratios of spiro-MeOTAD:LiTFSI:t-BP were 1:3.33:0.54 based on nominal concentrations. For photoemission spectroscopy studies and I–V measurements, thin films of doped spiro-MeOTAD were prepared by spin-coating in nitrogen glove-box for 60 s at 2000 rpm. Spin-coating was performed on thermally evaporated 100 nm of Au (Denton Vacuum Evaporator, Model DV-502 V) on heavily doped Si substrates with a thin native SiO2 layer (SAMCO Inc., 0.013 Ω cm–1). Final thickness of doped spiro-MeOTAD films was ≈250 nm, determined by a profilometer (Dektak stylus profiler, Bruker). Electronic properties of doped spiro-MeOTAD films were characterized with a UPS (Kratos AXIS ULTRA HAS, He−Iα = 21.22 eV). Chemical states of doped spiro-MeOTAD films were characterized by XPS (Kratos AXIS ULTRA HAS, monochromated Al Kα = 1486.6 eV). BE for UPS and XPS was calibrated by measuring the Fermi edge (EF = 0 eV) and Au- 4f7/2 (84.0 eV) on a clean Au surface. Estimated energy resolutions of UPS and XPS were 0.14 and 0.7 eV, respectively. Analysis of XPS data was performed in CasaXPS 2.3.16 software. UV and X-ray induced sample damage was monitored by taking five consecutive spectra and by comparing those spectra. The time acquisition for each scan varied from 60 to 100 s, depending on core level regions. Five scans were averaged to a single spectrum if no changes were observed among them. Fitting parameters of XPS core levels were conducted following Hock et al.[14] A Shirley-type background was fitted due to inelastic scattering processes.26 No X-ray and UV induced damage was observed on spiro-MeOTAD molecules. Where is the permittivity of the material and for organic semiconductors it is often assumed to be approximately 3, is the permittivity of free space, is the mobility, V is the voltage, and d is the thickness of the film. This work was supported by funding from the Energy Materials and Surface Sciences Unit of the Okinawa Institute of Science and Technology Graduate University and JSPS KAKENHI Grant Number 15K17925. The authors thank Dr. Steven D. Aird, the Technical Editor at Okinawa Institute of Science and Technology Graduate University for valuable suggestions in revising the manuscript. As a service to our authors and readers, this journal provides supporting information supplied by the authors. Such materials are peer reviewed and may be re-organized for online delivery, but are not copy-edited or typeset. Technical support issues arising from supporting information (other than missing files) should be addressed to the authors. Please note: The publisher is not responsible for the content or functionality of any supporting information supplied by the authors. Any queries (other than missing content) should be directed to the corresponding author for the article.