[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS neurology | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS neurology]

38. Elife. 2016 Mar 18;5:e13598. doi: 10.7554/eLife.13598.

Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) inhibits cortical dendrites.

Murphy SC(1)(2)(3), Palmer LM(3), Nyffeler T(4)(5)(6), Müri RM(5)(6), Larkum 
ME(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Neurocure Cluster of Excellence, Humboldt University, Berlin, Germany.
(2)Physiologisches Institut, Universität Bern, Bern, Switzerland.
(3)Florey Institute of Neuroscience and Mental Health, University of Melbourne, 
Melbourne, Australia.
(4)Neurology and Neurorehabilitation Centre, Luzerner Kantonsspital, Luzern, 
Switzerland.
(5)Departments of Neurology, University Hospital, Inselspital, University of 
Bern, Bern, Switzerland.
(6)Department of Clinical Research, University Hospital, Inselspital, University 
of Bern, Bern, Switzerland.

One of the leading approaches to non-invasively treat a variety of brain 
disorders is transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS). However, despite its 
clinical prevalence, very little is known about the action of TMS at the 
cellular level let alone what effect it might have at the subcellular level 
(e.g. dendrites). Here, we examine the effect of single-pulse TMS on dendritic 
activity in layer 5 pyramidal neurons of the somatosensory cortex using an 
optical fiber imaging approach. We find that TMS causes GABAB-mediated 
inhibition of sensory-evoked dendritic Ca(2+) activity. We conclude that TMS 
directly activates fibers within the upper cortical layers that leads to the 
activation of dendrite-targeting inhibitory neurons which in turn suppress 
dendritic Ca(2+) activity. This result implies a specificity of TMS at the 
dendritic level that could in principle be exploited for investigating these 
structures non-invasively.

DOI: 10.7554/eLife.13598
PMCID: PMC4811769
PMID: 26988796 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that no competing interests 
exist.