[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: magnetic resonance spectroscopy metabolite brain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: magnetic resonance spectroscopy metabolite brain]

57. Aust N Z J Psychiatry. 2024 Nov;58(11):930-951. doi:
10.1177/00048674241254216.  Epub 2024 May 29.

Glutamatergic neurotransmission in schizophrenia: A systematic review and 
quantitative synthesis of proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy studies across 
schizophrenia spectrum disorders.

Lopes JJ(1), Carruthers SP(1), Meyer D(1), Dean B(1)(2), Rossell SL(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Mental Health, Swinburne University of Technology, Melbourne, VIC, 
Australia.
(2)Molecular Psychiatry Laboratory, The Florey Institute of Neuroscience and 
Mental Health, Melbourne, VIC, Australia.
(3)Department of Psychiatry, St Vincent's Hospital, Melbourne, VIC, Australia.

OBJECTIVE: Studies using proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy reveal 
substantial inconsistencies in the levels of brain glutamate, glutamine and 
glutamate + glutamine across schizophrenia spectrum disorders. This systematic 
review employs qualitative and quantitative methods to analyse the patterns and 
relationships between glutamatergic metabolites, schizophrenia spectrum 
disorders and brain regions.
METHODS: A literature search was conducted using various databases with keywords 
including glutamate, glutamine, schizophrenia, psychosis and proton magnetic 
resonance spectroscopy. Inclusion criteria were limited to case-control studies 
that reported glutamatergic metabolite levels in adult patients with a 
schizophrenia spectrum disorder diagnosis - i.e. first-episode psychosis, 
schizophrenia, treatment-resistant schizophrenia and/or 
ultra-treatment-resistant schizophrenia - using proton magnetic resonance 
spectroscopy at 3 T or above. Pooled study data were synthesized and analysed.
RESULTS: A total of 92 studies met the inclusion criteria, including 2721 
healthy controls and 2822 schizophrenia spectrum disorder participants. Glu 
levels were higher in the basal ganglia, frontal cortex and medial prefrontal of 
first-episode psychosis participants, contrasting overall lower levels in 
schizophrenia participants. For Gln, strong differences in metabolite levels 
were evident in the basal ganglia, dorsolateral prefrontal cortex and frontal 
cortex, with first-episode psychosis showing significantly higher levels in the 
basal ganglia. In glutamate + glutamine, higher metabolite levels were found 
across schizophrenia spectrum disorder groups, particularly in the basal ganglia 
and dorsolateral prefrontal cortex of treatment-resistant schizophrenia 
participants. Significant relationships were found between metabolite levels and 
medication status, clinical measures and methodological variables.
CONCLUSION: The review highlights abnormal glutamatergic metabolite levels 
throughout schizophrenia spectrum disorders and in specific brain regions. The 
review underscores the importance of standardized future research assessing 
glutamatergic metabolites using proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy due to 
considerable literature heterogeneity.

DOI: 10.1177/00048674241254216
PMCID: PMC11529133
PMID: 38812258 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Conflicting InterestsThe 
author(s) declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the 
research, authorship and/or publication of this article.