[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: magnetic resonance spectroscopy metabolite brain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: magnetic resonance spectroscopy metabolite brain]

4. Hum Brain Mapp. 2023 Apr 15;44(6):2493-2508. doi: 10.1002/hbm.26226. Epub 2023
 Feb 10.

Brain metabolites measured with magnetic resonance spectroscopy in pediatric 
concussion and orthopedic injury: An Advancing Concussion Assessment in 
Pediatrics (A-CAP) study.

La PL(1)(2)(3), Joyce JM(1)(2)(3), Bell TK(1)(2)(3), Mauthner M(1)(2)(3), Craig 
W(4), Doan Q(5), Beauchamp MH(6), Zemek R(7)(8), Yeates KO(2)(3), Harris 
AD(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, University of Calgary, Calgary, Alberta, Canada.
(2)Alberta Children's Hospital Research Institute, University of Calgary, 
Calgary, Alberta, Canada.
(3)Hotchkiss Brain Institute, University of Calgary, Calgary, Alberta, Canada.
(4)Department of Pediatrics, University of Alberta and Stollery Children's 
Hospital, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada.
(5)Department of Pediatrics, University of British Columbia and BC Children's 
Hospital Research Institute, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada.
(6)Department of Psychology, University of Montreal and Ste Justine Hospital 
Research Center, Montreal, Quebec, Canada.
(7)Department of Pediatrics and Emergency Medicine, Children's Hospital of 
Eastern Ontario, University of Ottawa, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada.
(8)Childrens' Hospital of Eastern Ontario Research Institute, University of 
Ottawa, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada.

Millions of children sustain a concussion annually. Concussion disrupts cellular 
signaling and neural pathways within the brain but the resulting metabolic 
disruptions are not well characterized. Magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) 
can examine key brain metabolites (e.g., N-acetyl Aspartate (tNAA), glutamate 
(Glx), creatine (tCr), choline (tCho), and myo-Inositol (mI)) to better 
understand these disruptions. In this study, we used MRS to examine differences 
in brain metabolites between children and adolescents with concussion versus 
orthopedic injury. Children and adolescents with concussion (n = 361) or 
orthopedic injury (OI) (n = 184) aged 8 to 17 years were recruited from five 
emergency departments across Canada. MRS data were collected from the left 
dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (L-DLPFC) using point resolved spectroscopy 
(PRESS) at 3 T at a mean of 12 days post-injury (median 10 days post-injury, 
range 2-33 days). Univariate analyses for each metabolite found no statistically 
significant metabolite differences between groups. Within each analysis, several 
covariates were statistically significant. Follow-up analyses designed to 
account for possible confounding factors including age, site, scanner, vendor, 
time since injury, and tissue type (and interactions as appropriate) did not 
find any metabolite group differences. In the largest sample of pediatric 
concussion studied with MRS to date, we found no metabolite differences between 
concussion and OI groups in the L-DLPFC. We suggest that at 2 weeks post-injury 
in a general pediatric concussion population, brain metabolites in the L-DLPFC 
are not specifically affected by brain injury.

© 2023 The Authors. Human Brain Mapping published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/hbm.26226
PMCID: PMC10028643
PMID: 36763547 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: No authors have any conflicts of interest to 
disclose.