[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: photodynamic therapy cancer clinical trial | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: photodynamic therapy cancer clinical trial]

25. Photodiagnosis Photodyn Ther. 2022 Jun;38:102843. doi: 
10.1016/j.pdpdt.2022.102843. Epub 2022 Mar 31.

Clinical evaluation of a mobile, low-cost system for fluorescence guided 
photodynamic therapy of early oral cancer in India.

Siddiqui SA(1), Siddiqui S(2), Hussain MAB(1), Khan S(3), Liu H(4), Akhtar K(5), 
Hasan SA(6), Ahmed I(2), Mallidi S(7), Khan AP(7), Cuckov F(8), Hopper C(9), 
Bown S(9), Celli JP(10), Hasan T(11).

Author information:
(1)Aligarh Muslim University, Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College, Department of 
Radiotherapy, Aligarh, India.
(2)Aligarh Muslim University, Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College, Department of 
Radiodiagnosis, Aligarh, India.
(3)Aligarh Muslim University, Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College, Department of 
Radiotherapy, Aligarh, India; University of Massachusetts at Boston, Boston, MA, 
United States; Massachusetts General Hospital and Harvard Medical School, 
Boston, Massachusetts, United States.
(4)University of Massachusetts at Boston, Boston, MA, United States.
(5)Aligarh Muslim University, Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College, Department of 
Pathology, Aligarh, India.
(6)Aligarh Muslim University, Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College, Department of 
Otorhinolaryngology (E.N.T.), Aligarh, India.
(7)Massachusetts General Hospital and Harvard Medical School, Boston, 
Massachusetts, United States.
(8)Wentworth Institute of Technology, Boston, Massachusetts, United States.
(9)University College London, England.
(10)University of Massachusetts at Boston, Boston, MA, United States; 
Massachusetts General Hospital and Harvard Medical School, Boston, 
Massachusetts, United States.
(11)Massachusetts General Hospital and Harvard Medical School, Boston, 
Massachusetts, United States; Division of Health Sciences and Technology, 
Harvard University and Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, MA, 
USA. Electronic address: thasan@mgh.harvard.edu.

BACKGROUND: Morbidity and mortality due to oral cancer in India are exacerbated 
by a lack of access to effective treatments amongst medically underserved 
populations. We developed a user-friendly low-cost, portable fibre-coupled LED 
system for photodynamic therapy (PDT) of early oral lesions, using a smartphone 
fluorescence imaging device for treatment guidance, and 3D printed fibreoptic 
attachments for ergonomic intraoral light delivery.
METHODS: 30 patients with T1N0M0 buccal mucosal cancer were recruited from the 
JN Medical College clinics, Aligarh, and rural screening camps. Tumour limits 
were defined by external ultrasound (US), white light photos and increased 
tumour fluorescence after oral administration of the photosensitising agent ALA 
(60 mg/kg, divided doses), monitored by a smartphone fluorescence imaging 
device. 100 J/cm2 LED light (635 nm peak) was delivered followed by repeat 
fluorescence to assess photobleaching. US and biopsy were repeated after 7-17 
days. This trial is registered with ClinicalTrials.gov, NCT03638622, and the 
study has been completed.
FINDINGS: There were no significant complications or discomfort. No sedation was 
required. No residual disease was detected in 22 out of 30 patients who 
completed the study (26 of 34 lesions, 76% complete tumour response, 50 weeks 
median follow-up) with up to 7.2 mm depth of necrosis. Treatment failures were 
attributed to large tumour size and/or inadequate light delivery (documented by 
limited photobleaching). Moderately differentiated lesions were more responsive 
than well-differentiated cancers.
INTERPRETATION: This simple and low-cost adaptation of fluorescenceguided PDT is 
effective for treatment of early-stage malignant oral lesions and may have 
implications in global health.

Copyright © 2022 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pdpdt.2022.102843
PMCID: PMC9177774
PMID: 35367616 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests All authors declare no 
competing interests.