[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: herbal medicine drug interaction pharmacokinetics | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: herbal medicine drug interaction pharmacokinetics]

12. Pharmacol Ther. 2024 Dec;264:108728. doi: 10.1016/j.pharmthera.2024.108728.
Epub  2024 Oct 9.

A comprehensive review on pharmacokinetic mechanism of herb-herb/drug 
interactions in Chinese herbal formula.

Li M(1), Wang Y(2), Chen Y(3), Dong L(2), Liu J(2), Dong Y(4), Yang Q(2), Cai 
W(2), Li Q(2), Peng B(2), Li Y(2), Weng X(2), Wang Y(2), Zhu X(5), Gong Z(6), 
Chen Y(7).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Chinese Materia Medica, China Academy of Chinese Medical 
Sciences, Beijing 100700, China; State Key Laboratory of Functions and 
Applications of Medicinal Plants, Guizhou Provincial Key Laboratory of 
Pharmaceutics, School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Guizhou Medical University, 
Guiyang 550025, China.
(2)Institute of Chinese Materia Medica, China Academy of Chinese Medical 
Sciences, Beijing 100700, China.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Functions and Applications of Medicinal Plants, 
Guizhou Provincial Key Laboratory of Pharmaceutics, School of Pharmaceutical 
Sciences, Guizhou Medical University, Guiyang 550025, China.
(4)Guang'an men hospital, China Academy of Chinese Medical Sciences, Beijing 
100053, China.
(5)Institute of Chinese Materia Medica, China Academy of Chinese Medical 
Sciences, Beijing 100700, China. Electronic address: zhuxx59@126.com.
(6)State Key Laboratory of Functions and Applications of Medicinal Plants, 
Guizhou Provincial Key Laboratory of Pharmaceutics, School of Pharmaceutical 
Sciences, Guizhou Medical University, Guiyang 550025, China. Electronic address: 
gzp4012607@126.com.
(7)Institute of Chinese Materia Medica, China Academy of Chinese Medical 
Sciences, Beijing 100700, China. Electronic address: ychen@icmm.ac.cn.

Oral administration of Chinese Herbal Medicine (CHM) faces various challenges in 
reaching the target organs including absorption and conversion in the 
gastrointestinal tract, hepatic metabolism via the portal vein, and eventual 
systemic circulation. During this process, factors such as gut microbes, 
physical or chemical barriers, metabolic enzymes, and transporters play crucial 
roles. Particularly, interactions between different herbs in CHM have been 
observed both in vitro and in vivo. In vitro, interactions typically manifest as 
detectable physical or chemical changes, such as facilitating solubilization or 
producing precipitates when decoctions of multiple herbs are administered. In 
vivo, such interactions cause alterations in the ADME (absorption, distribution, 
metabolism, and excretion) profile on metabolic enzymes or transporters in the 
body, leading to competition, antagonism, inhibition, or activation. These 
interactions ultimately contribute to differences in the therapeutic and 
pharmacological effects of multi-herb formulas in CHM. Over the past two 
thousand years, China has cultivated profound expertise and solid theoretical 
frameworks over the scientific use of herbs. The combination of multiple herbs 
in one decoction has been frequently employed to synergistically enhance 
therapeutic efficacy or mitigate toxic and side effects in clinical settings. 
Additionally combining herbs with increased toxicity or decreased effect is also 
regarded as a remedy, a practice that should be approached with caution 
according to Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM) physicians. Such historical 
records and practices serve as a foundation for predicting favorable multi-herb 
combinations and their potential risks. However, systematic data that are 
available to support the clinical practice and the exploration of novel herbal 
formulas remain limited. Therefore, this review aims to summarize the 
pharmacokinetic interactions and mechanisms of herb-herb or herb-drug 
combinations from existing works, and to offer guidance as well as evidence for 
optimizing CHM and developing new medicines with CHM characteristics.

Copyright © 2024. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pharmthera.2024.108728
PMID: 39389315 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest All authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.