[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: magnetic resonance spectroscopy metabolite brain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: magnetic resonance spectroscopy metabolite brain]

79. Magn Reson Med. 2021 Apr;85(4):1766-1782. doi: 10.1002/mrm.28574. Epub 2020
Nov  5.

Combining chemical exchange saturation transfer and (1) H magnetic resonance 
spectroscopy for simultaneous determination of metabolite concentrations and 
effects of magnetization exchange.

Hoefemann M(1)(2), Döring A(1)(2)(3), Fichtner ND(1)(2)(4), Kreis R(1).

Author information:
(1)Departments of Radiology and Biomedical Research, University of Bern, Bern, 
Switzerland.
(2)Graduate School for Cellular and Biomedical Sciences, University of Bern, 
Bern, Switzerland.
(3)Cardiff University Brain Research Imaging Centre (CUBRIC), Cardiff 
University, Cardiff, UK.
(4)University of British Columbia, Vancouver, Canada.

PURPOSE: A new sequence combining chemical-exchange saturation-transfer (CEST) 
with traditional MRS is used to simultaneously determine metabolite content and 
effects of magnetization exchange.
METHODS: A CEST saturation block consisting of a train of RF-pulses is placed 
before a metabolite-cycled semi-LASER single-voxel spectroscopy sequence. The 
saturation parameters are adjustable to allow optimization of the saturation for 
a specific target. Data were collected in brain from 20 subjects in experiments 
with different B1 -settings (0.4-2.0 µT) on a 3T MR scanner. CEST Z-spectra were 
calculated from water intensities and fitted with a multi-pool Lorentzian model. 
Interrelated metabolite spectra were fitted in fitting tool for arrays of 
interrelated datasets (FiTAID).
RESULTS: Evaluation of traditional Z-spectra from water revealed exchange 
effects from amides, amines, and hydroxyls as well as an upfield nuclear 
Overhauser effect. The magnetization transfer effect was evaluated on 
metabolites and macromolecules for the whole spectral range and for the 
different B1 levels. A correction scheme for direct saturation on metabolites is 
proposed. Both magnetization-transfer and direct saturation proved to differ for 
individual metabolites.
CONCLUSION: Using non-water-suppressed spectroscopy offers time-saving 
simultaneous recording of the traditional CEST Z-spectrum from water and the 
metabolite spectrum under frequency-selective saturation. In addition, exchange 
and magnetization-transfer effects on metabolites and macromolecules can be 
detected, which might offer additional possibilities for quantification or give 
further insight into the composition of the traditional CEST Z-spectrum. 
Apparent magnetization-transfer effects on macromolecular signals in the 1 H-MR 
spectrum have been found. Detailed knowledge of magnetization-transfer effects 
is also relevant for judging the influence of water-suppression on the 
quantification of metabolite signals.

© 2020 The Authors. Magnetic Resonance in Medicine published by Wiley 
Periodicals LLC on behalf of International Society for Magnetic Resonance in 
Medicine.

DOI: 10.1002/mrm.28574
PMCID: PMC7821128
PMID: 33151011 [Indexed for MEDLINE]