[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: John Charteris | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# John Charteris — Overview

that Charteris was methodical and hardworking. Herbert Lawrence, who became the B.E.F.'s Chief of Intelligence briefly in early 1918, testified to the efficiency of the organisation he inherited from Charteris when he replaced him after his dismissal. Bourne argues that although Charteris was wrong about the wider issues of German morale and manpower, he was effective at predicting enemy troop deployments, immediate plans and tactical changes. In Bourne's view, he was not Haig's "evil genius", but rather shared Haig's innate optimism and did nothing to undermine it. An official inquiry blamed intelligence failures by Charteris' Department for the near debacle at the Battle of Cambrai, where a German counter-attack had retaken almost all the British gains. By the end of 1917 Charteris was known as "the U-boat". In January 1918 Brigadier-General Edgar William Cox was recalled to France to replace Charteris. Charteris' final intelligence reports correctly predicted a German offensive in Spring 1918. Charteris was moved to the job of deputy director of Transportation at GHQ. Propaganda
Charteris was also associated with some notable allied propaganda and disinformation successes, such as "the master hoax" of World War I, being the story of the existence of a German corpse factory Kadaververwertungsanstalt, in which the Germans supposedly rendered their own dead soldiers into fats. This story was circulated in several British and international newspapers in 1917. After the war Charteris allegedly claimed in a public speech that he invented it when he deliberately switched captions on two German war pictures: one image showed soldiers killed in battle being taken away for burial, while the other showed horse carcasses being delivered to a processing factory behind German lines. One of his subordinates created a fake diary describing the use of the factory. This was to have been planted on the corpse of a German soldier, to be "found" as proof of the story, but this plan was eventually dropped. Charteris's comments caused a media outcry. Phillip Knightley says that all the evidence suggests that the story originated in newspaper reports about a real factory for rendering animal corpses. Charteris may have concocted the claim that he invented it in order to impress his audience, not realizing a reporter was present. Randal Marlin has written that Charteris's claim to have invented the story is "demonstrably false" in a number of details. However, it is possible that a fake diary was created but never used. Nevertheless, this fake diary, which Charteris claimed still existed when he made the comments has never been found. In fact Charteris's comments later gave Adolf Hitler rhetorical ammunition to portray the British as liars. Post-war military career
He was awarded the C.M.G. in 1919. He served as Director of Movements and Quartering in India from 1920 to 1921, then as Deputy Adjutant- and Quartermaster-General of Eastern Command from 1921 to 1922. Political career
Charteris left the Army in 1922. From 1924 until 1929 he was Unionist Party British Member of Parliament for Dumfriesshire. His areas of political interest were in farming and the welfare of British war veterans. Publications
He published three books in his later years concerning his military service, 'Field Marshal Earl Haig' (1929), 'At GHQ' (1931), and "Haig" (1933) (a condensed version of the 1929 biography). His writings were considered controversial. He had not kept a diary at the time so 'At GHQ' consisted of papers, notes and letters from the time re-written into diary form. He confessed to sometimes amplifying from memory but by and large the reconstructed "diary" is consistent with records which he kept at the time, e.g. his entry for the First Day of the Somme which he states was "not an attempt to win the war at a blow", and that "weeks of hard fighting" lay ahead. "At GHQ" also contains a letter from Charteris with the date 5 September 1914, noting that "the story of the Angels of Mons [is] going strong through the 2nd Corps". If authentic, this may be the earliest account of the rumour, predating Arthur Machen's The Bowmen—widely held to be the source of the Angels of Mons legend. However, examination of Charteris' original letters gives evidence that these entries and/or dates were falsified, leading David Clarke, among others, to suggest that Charteris was using the Angels rumour for propaganda purposes. Death
Charteris died at the age of 69 on 4 February 1946 at his home, 'Bourne House', in the village of Thorpe, in the county of Surrey. His body was buried in the graveyard of Tinwald Kirk (Church), in Dumfries and Galloway, which also displays a memorial stained glass window to his memory. His will was valued for probate at £6,895 4s 11d (around £250,000 at 2016 prices). Personal life
He married Noel Hodgson in October 1913. They had three sons, all of whom became officers in the British Army (one of them, Euan, was killed in the North African Campaign during World War II on 3 December 1942 with the 2nd Battalion, Parachute Regiment).