[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: plant alkaloid biosynthesis pathway elucidation | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: plant alkaloid biosynthesis pathway elucidation]

18. Alkaloids Chem Biol. 2015;74:1-120. doi: 10.1016/bs.alkal.2014.11.001.

The Securinega alkaloids.

Chirkin E, Atkatlian W, Porée FH.

Securinega alkaloids represent a family of plant secondary metabolites known for 
50 years. Securinine (1), the most abundant and studied alkaloid of this series 
was isolated by Russian researchers in 1956. In the following years, French and 
Japanese scientists reported other Securinega compounds and extensive work was 
done to elucidate their intriguing structures. The homogeneity of this family 
relies mainly on its tetracyclic chemical backbone, which features a butenolide 
moiety (cycle D) and an azabicyclo[3.2.1]octane ring system (rings B and C). 
Interestingly, after a period of latency of 20 years, the Securinega topic 
reemerged as a prolific source of new natural structures and to date more than 
50 compounds have been identified and characterized. The oligomeric subgroup 
gathering dimeric, trimeric, and tetrameric units is of particular interest. The 
unprecedented structure of the Securinega alkaloids was the subject of extensive 
synthetic efforts culminating in several efficient and elegant total syntheses. 
The botanical distribution of these alkaloids seems limited to the Securinega, 
Flueggea, Margaritaria, and Breynia genera (Phyllanthaceae). However, only a 
limited number of plant species have been considered for their alkaloid 
contents, and additional phytochemical as well as genetic studies are needed. 
Concerning the biosynthesis, experiments carried out with radiolabelled 
aminoacids allowed to identify lysine and tyrosine as the precursors of the 
piperidine ring A and the CD rings of securinine (1), respectively. Besides, 
plausible biosynthetic pathways were proposed for virosaine A (38) and B (39), 
flueggine A (46), and also the different oligomers flueggenine A-D (48-51), 
fluevirosinine A (56), and flueggedine (20). The case of nirurine (45) and 
secu'amamine (37) remains elusive and additional studies seem necessary to 
understand their mode of production. The scope of biological of activities of 
the Securinega alkaloids was mainly centered on the CNS activity of securinine 
(1), although the exact mechanism of action remained in part unknown. 
Nevertheless, for its stimulant and antispasmodic effects securinine nitrate was 
marketed as a drug in the USSR until the early 1990s. Moreover, securinine (1) 
and several other Securinega alkaloids recently demonstrated promising 
anticancer properties. In particular securinine (1) demonstrated markedly 
benefits in the treatment of acute myeloid leukemia.

DOI: 10.1016/bs.alkal.2014.11.001
PMID: 25845059 [Indexed for MEDLINE]