[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS neurology | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS neurology]

35. Headache. 2017 Mar;57(3):517-524. doi: 10.1111/head.13002. Epub 2016 Dec 28.

Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation: Basic Principles and Clinical Applications in 
Migraine.

Barker AT(1), Shields K(2).

Author information:
(1)Consultant Clinical Scientist in the Department of Medical Physics and 
Clinical Engineering at Sheffield Teaching Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, 
Professor Associate at the University of Sheffield Medical School, UK.
(2)Consultant Neurologist and Clinical Neurophysiologist at The National 
Hospital for Neurology and Neurosurgery, Queen Square, London, UK.

PURPOSE: Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) is a neurophysiological 
technique with a long established pedigree of safety, tolerability, and 
efficacy. Initially TMS was used to study the function of the cerebral cortex, 
but it has now become a treatment for migraine, one of the most common and 
debilitating neurological conditions. In this review we discuss the scientific 
background and development of the technique. We explore its application for the 
treatment of migraine and ponder the possible mechanisms of action in this most 
common neurological condition.
OVERVIEW: The generation of brief magnetic pulses by a suitable coil can induce 
electrical fields in the body. When applied to the cerebral cortex, currents are 
painlessly induced in cortical neurons. These currents can lead to neuronal 
depolarization and may influence cortical excitability by means that are as yet 
not fully understood. This ability to modulate cortical excitability has been 
exploited as a treatment for migraine with aura. Aura is implicated in the 
pathophysiology of migraine. Experimental studies have shown that transcranial 
magnetic pulses can block waves of cortical spreading depression - the 
experimental equivalent of migrainous aura.
DISCUSSION: Migraine is a debilitating condition characterized by headache, 
nausea, and sensory hypersensitivity. It may affect up to 15% of the population, 
yet current drug treatments are often poorly tolerated. Clinical studies have 
shown that TMS is an effective treatment for migraine. In addition, it has the 
added advantages of being safe and well tolerated by patients.

© 2016 American Headache Society.

DOI: 10.1111/head.13002
PMID: 28028801 [Indexed for MEDLINE]