[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: Iris giganticaerulea | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Iris giganticaerulea — Overview

February, before the plant is in flower. New plantings need to be mulched to prevent sun-scalding. It is also recommended to be added to during winter. The iris seed is not hard to raise but a very slow process. It can take many months to germinate (between 3 and 12 months) with a 50% germination average. They then can take 3–5 years before reaching flowering stage. Seeds should be harvested from the plant after flowering but they must be from mature seed pods. They then should be stored in paper bags, as seed stored in glass containers often goes mouldy. Iris giganticaerulea and Iris hexagona are considered too tender for cultivation in the UK. Since it needs moist acid soils, with warm summers and milder winters. It is hardy to USDA Zone 7 to 11 (or 5 and 6 if protected during the winter). It is often available at water garden centres. Hybrids
Iris giganticaerulea can easily hybridize with other Louisiana irises to create new variants. Several American garden nurseries and plant breeders have created many Iris giganticaerulea cultivars including,  'Angel Wings', 'Atrocyanea', 'Barbara Elaine Taylor', 'Bayou Barataria', 'Bayou Boeuf', 'Bayou St John', 'Bette Lee', 'Billy Mac', 'Biloxi', 'Cameron White', 'China Blue', 'Citricristata', 'Citricristata Alba', 'Citriviola', 'Coteau Holmes', 'Creole Can-Can', 'Easter Surprise', 'Elephantina', 'Excitement', 'Florence Zacharie', 'Gentilly Road', 'Gheen's White', 'Giganticaerulea Alba', 'Giganticaerulea Royal', 'Gulf Mist', 'Her Highness', 'High Hat', 'Iberville', 'Isle Bonne', 'Joe Mac', 'Kildea', 'La Bahia ', 'Lafitte', 'La Premiere', 'Laughing Water', 'Lazy Day', 'Longfellow's Gabriel', 'Mandeville', 'Miraculosa', 'Paludicola', 'Ruth Holleyman', 'Silverblu ', 'Snow Flag', 'Snow Goose', 'Southern Accent','Spanish Fort', 'Trixie'. Other crosses include with Iris fulva to produce 'Iris × vinicolor' Small. References

Sources
 British Iris Society, A Guide to Species Irises: Their Identification and Cultivation (1997)

External links
Flickr images of iris giganticaerulea
Images of the iris

giganticaerulea
Flora of Texas
Flora of Alabama
Flora of Louisiana
Flora of Mississippi
Plants described in 1929
Symbols of Louisiana