[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: Plasma beta | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Plasma beta — Overview

generally requiring expensive superconducting magnets. For any given reactor design, the cost is generally dominated by the cost of the magnets. Beta Given that the magnets are a dominant factor in reactor design, and that density and temperature combine to produce pressure, the ratio of the pressure of the plasma to the magnetic energy density naturally becomes a useful figure of merit when comparing MCF designs. Plainly, the higher the beta value, the more economically viable the design is and further the higher Q value the design possibly has. In effect, the ratio illustrates how effectively a design confines its plasma. This ratio, beta, is widely used in the fusion field:

 

 is normally measured in terms of the total magnetic field. However, in any real-world design, the strength of the field varies over the volume of the plasma, so to be specific, the average beta is sometimes referred to as the "beta toroidal". In the tokamak design the total field is a combination of the external toroidal field and the current-induced poloidal one, so the "beta poloidal" is sometimes used to compare the relative strengths of these fields. And as the external magnetic field is the driver of reactor cost, "beta external" is used to consider just this contribution. Troyon beta limit
In a tokamak, for a stable plasma,  is always much smaller than 1 (otherwise thermal pressure would cause the plasma to grow and move in the vacuum chamber until confinement is lost.). Ideally, a MCF device would want to have as high beta as possible, as this would imply the minimum amount of magnetic force needed for confinement. In practice, most tokamaks  operate at beta of order 0.01, or 1%. Spherical tokamaks typically operate at beta values an order of magnitude higher. The record was set by the START device at 0.4, or 40%. These low achievable betas are due to instabilities in the plasma generated through the interaction of the fields and the motion of the particles due to the induced current. As the amount of current is increased in relation to the external field, these instabilities become uncontrollable. In early pinch experiments the current dominated the field components and the kink and sausage instabilities were common, today collectively referred to as "low-n instabilities". As the relative strength of the external magnetic field is increased, these simple instabilities are damped out, but at a critical field other "high-n instabilities" will invariably appear, notably the ballooning mode. For any given fusion reactor design, there is a limit to the beta it can sustain. As beta is a measure of economic merit, a practical tokamak based fusion reactor must be able to sustain a beta above some critical value, which is calculated to be around 5%. Through the 1980s the understanding of the high-n instabilities grew considerably. Shafranov and Yurchenko first published on the issue in 1971 in a general discussion of tokamak design, but it was the work by Wesson and Sykes in 1983 and Francis Troyon in 1984 that developed these concepts fully. Troyon's considerations, or the "Troyon limit", closely matched the real-world performance of existing machines. It has since become so widely used that it is often known simply as the beta limit in tokamaks. The Troyon limit is given as:

 

Where I is the plasma current,  is the external magnetic field, and a is the minor radius of the tokamak (see torus for an explanation of the directions). was determined numerically, and is normally given as 0.028 if I is measured in megaamperes. However, it is also common to use 2.8 if  is expressed as a percentage. Given that the Troyon limit suggested a  around 2.5 to 4%, and a practical reactor had to have a  around 5%, the Troyon limit was a serious concern when it was introduced. However, it was found that  changed dramatically with the shape of the plasma, and non-circular systems would have much better performance. Experiments on the DIII-D machine (the second D referring to the cross-sectional shape of the plasma) demonstrated higher performance,  and the spherical tokamak design outperformed the Troyon limit by about 10 times. Astrophysics
Beta is also sometimes used when discussing the interaction of plasma in space with different magnetic fields. A common example is the interaction of the solar wind with the magnetic fields of the Sun or Earth. In this case, the betas of these natural phenomena are generally much smaller than those seen in reactor designs; the Sun's corona has a beta around 1%. Active regions have much higher beta, over 1 in some cases, which makes the area unstable. See also
List of plasma (physics) articles
Plasma (physics)

References

Notes

Bibliography

 Joan Lisa Bromberg, "Fusion: Science, Politics, and the Invention of a New Energy Source", MIT Press, 1982
 Jeffrey Freidberg, "Plasma Physics and Fusion Energy", Cambridge University Press, 2007

beta