[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: nanoparticle drug delivery tumor targeting cancer | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: nanoparticle drug delivery tumor targeting cancer]

93. Wiley Interdiscip Rev Nanomed Nanobiotechnol. 2017
May;9(3):10.1002/wnan.1451.  doi: 10.1002/wnan.1451. Epub 2017 Feb 9.

Nanoparticle drug-delivery systems for peritoneal cancers: a case study of the 
design, characterization and development of the expansile nanoparticle.

Colby AH(1)(2), Oberlies NH(3), Pearce CJ(4), Herrera VL(5), Colson YL(2), 
Grinstaff MW(6).

Author information:
(1)Departments of Biomedical Engineering and Chemistry, Boston University, 
Boston, MA, USA.
(2)Division of Thoracic Surgery, Department of Surgery, Brigham and Women's 
Hospital, Boston, MA, USA.
(3)Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, University of North Carolina at 
Greensboro, Greensboro, NC, USA.
(4)Mycosynthetix, Inc., Hillsborough, NC, USA.
(5)Department of Medicine and Whitaker Cardiovascular Institute, Boston 
University School of Medicine, Boston, MA, USA.
(6)Departments of Biomedical Engineering, Chemistry, and Medicine, Boston 
University, Boston, MA, USA.

Nanoparticle (NP)-based drug-delivery systems are frequently employed to improve 
the intravenous administration of chemotherapy; however, few reports explore 
their application as an intraperitoneal therapy. We developed a pH-responsive 
expansile nanoparticle (eNP) specifically designed to leverage the 
intraperitoneal route of administration to treat intraperitoneal malignancies, 
such as mesothelioma, ovarian, and pancreatic carcinomatoses. This review 
describes the design, evaluation, and evolution of the eNP technology and, 
specifically, a Materials-Based Targeting paradigm that is unique among the many 
active- and passive-targeting strategies currently employed by NP-delivery 
systems. pH-responsive eNP swelling is responsible for the extended residence at 
the target tumor site as well as the subsequent improvement in tumoral drug 
delivery and efficacy observed with paclitaxel-loaded eNPs (PTX-eNPs) compared 
to the standard clinical formulation of paclitaxel, Taxol®. Superior PTX-eNP 
efficacy is demonstrated in two different orthotopic models of peritoneal 
cancer-mesothelioma and ovarian cancer; in a third model-of pancreatic 
cancer-PTX-eNPs demonstrated comparable efficacy to Taxol with reduced toxicity. 
Furthermore, the unique structural and responsive characteristics of eNPs enable 
them to be used in three additional treatment paradigms, including: treatment of 
lymphatic metastases in breast cancer; use as a highly fluorescent probe to 
visually guide the resection of peritoneal implants; and, in a two-step delivery 
paradigm for concentrating separately administered NP and drug at a target site. 
This case study serves as an important example of using the targeted 
disease-state's pathophysiology to inform the NP design as well as the method of 
use of the delivery system. WIREs Nanomed Nanobiotechnol 2017, 9:e1451. doi: 
10.1002/wnan.1451 For further resources related to this article, please visit 
the WIREs website.

© 2017 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/wnan.1451
PMCID: PMC5389910
PMID: 28185434 [Indexed for MEDLINE]