[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: List of EastEnders characters (2004) | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# List of EastEnders characters (2004) — Overview

late, would like to act as a surrogate father to him, which Freddie accepts. Due to his cheerful and laid back personality, Freddie soon settles into life in Walford and becomes close friends with Bobby as well as building solid relationships with Stacey, her mother Jean Slater (Gillian Wright) and Alfie, the latter of whom he later moves into Harvey Monroe's (Ross Boatman) former flat with. Reintroduction
In July 2022, it was announced that Freddie would be returning to the series, now portrayed by Bobby Brazier. He is set to return to Walford in autumn 2022 as an 18-year-old with "a heart of gold but can't help getting himself into mischief". His return aired on 6 September 2022. The role is Brazier's acting debut, of which he said: "I'm really excited to be joining the cast of EastEnders – so far it's been perfect. Everybody has been so beautiful to me and made settling in easier than I could've hoped. Stepping into the acting world has always been a vision of mine and doing that with EastEnders as a Slater is a blessing, I'm very grateful. Loving every minute of Freddie so far and can't wait to see what's in store for him in Walford." Producers said that upon his return, Freddie shows traits of his mother through his kindness, but that he is not shy like her and is not afraid to make a scene and cause a stir. Executive producer Chris Clenshaw described Freddie as "a modern-day lad who's in touch with his spiritual side. He's philosophical, accepting, but full of mischief and makes mistakes."

Deirdre Foster

Deirdre Foster, played by Patricia Brake, is the mother of Graham Foster (Alex McSweeney), who attends his rape trial in November 2004. When Deirdre speaks to Little Mo Mitchell (Kacey Ainsworth) about her son Freddie (Alex and Tom Kilby), she reveals that Graham has two daughters from his failed marriage who he never sees. Kate Mitchell (Jill Halfpenny) passes this information onto Mo's legal team, who ask Graham about it under cross examination. Graham lies and is caught out, then berates his mother for telling Mo. Graham is then found guilty. Little Mo feels sorry for Deirdre and keeps in contact with her until she and Freddie leave Walford in May 2006. Jean Slater

Jean Slater, played by Gillian Wright, is the mother of Stacey Slater (Lacey Turner). She appears in December 2004 briefly and in December 2005. She returns as a recurring character in June 2006 and begins making regular appearances from November 2006 when she moves in with the Slater family in Walford. Jean departs on 13 January 2011 when she admits herself into a psychiatric hospital after becoming severely depressed following Stacey's departure. She returns to Walford on 29 March 2011 and moves into the Queen Vic with Kat Slater (Jessie Wallace) and Alfie Moon (Shane Richie). DI Christopher Riddick

Detective Inspector Christopher Riddick, played by Roger Griffiths, is a local police officer. Riddick first appears following Paul Trueman's (Gary Beadle) arrest for running drug errands for Andy Hunter (Michael Higgs). Riddick urges Paul to stop protecting Andy and implicate him and Paul does so. When Paul is later murdered, Riddick and his colleague DS Jones question Andy, who has an alibi for where he had been at the time. Riddick's last appearance is when Chrissie Watts (Tracy-Ann Oberman) is arrested for the murder of her husband Den (Leslie Grantham). Jake Moon

Jake Moon, played by Joel Beckett, first appears with his brother Danny Moon (Jake Maskall) from 30 December 2004. He is notable for his alliance with gangster Johnny Allen (Billy Murray), his obsession with Johnny's daughter Ruby (Louisa Lytton), his feuds with Phil Mitchell (Steve McFadden), Grant Mitchell (Ross Kemp), Dennis Rickman (Nigel Harman) and Sean Slater (Robert Kazinsky), and his relationship with Chrissie Watts (Tracy-Ann Oberman). Danny Moon

Danny Moon, played by Jake Maskall, makes his first appearance on 30 December 2004 with his brother Jake (Joel Beckett). After Danny's employer Johnny Allen (Billy Murray) is beaten severely by Dennis Rickman (Nigel Harman), he orders Danny to murder Dennis. The murder soon leads to Danny leaving Walford. He returns briefly in March 2006 for Get Johnny Week, which ultimately leads to his demise. Others

References

External links

2004
, EastEnders
2004 in British television