[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: Utricularia resupinata | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Utricularia resupinata — Overview

Flowers very pale pink.” Early plant bladder study One of the early students of Utricularia resupinata and its carnivorous family (Lentibulariaceae) was Mary Treat (1830-1923), a naturalist who made major contributions in botany and entomology. She spent many hours over her microscope observing the bladders or traps along its supporting system of stems, trying to discover how “these little bladders” trapped and digested their animal prey. It was originally believed that the series of bladders on the stems and roots “floated the plant.” Mary Treat was “one of the first scientists to suspect that the bladders were actually traps for tiny creatures rather than air floatation devices.”

In a book titled Through a Microscope, Mary Treat contributed a whole chapter on the Utricularia genus, puzzling over the “wonderful” process by which these bladders worked:

Correspondence between Charles Darwin and Mary Treat 

Mary also held a five-year correspondence with biologist Charles Darwin as he was researching carnivorous plants, debating the question of how insects entered these bladders, finally convincing him of her theory. She recounted this in the same chapter, and it is worth quoting at length for this back story from the early history of botany:

A name change 

Utricularia resupinata was moved to a new genus as the science of botany progressed, and New York Botanical Garden (NYBG) leader John Hendley Barnhart (1871-1949) categorized this species in 1913 under “Lecticula,” a section of the genus Ultricularia. He based this taxonomy change on its unusual stem bracts noted above: “Utricularia sect. Lecticula is a section in the genus Utricularia that was originally described as genus Lecticula in 1913 by John Hendley Barnhart. The two species in this section are small subaquatic carnivorous plants that are distinguished by the unique bracts, which are basifixed and tubular. Both species are native to North and South America.” Botanist Norman Taylor (1900-1975) in association with the NYBG published Flora in the Vicinity of New York in 1915, reporting on Barnhart’s new category (and name) for Utricularia resupinata. Under the Lentibulariaceae or bladderwort family of plants, he identified three genera -- Vesiculina Raf., Utricularia L., and Lecticula Barnhart, with Utricularia resupinata printed with its new name in this third genus. The following comment described this section of the genus: “L. [Lecticula] resupinata (B.D. Greene) Barnhart. In sandy bogs and borders of ponds: Me. to Fla., west to Mish. Rare.” Lecticula resupinata is thus a plant synonym for Utricularia resupinata. Systematic study of the Utricularia genus 

Peter Geoffrey Taylor (1926-2011) put in 41 years of research and observation on the genus Utricularia. In 1989 he published The Genus Utricularia: A Taxonomic Monograph with Utricularia resupinata one of the 240 species in this genus, and now under its original name. Taylor illustrated 214 of these species in his book, considered to be ground breaking with its in-depth study of an entire genus: “Taylor's species list and classification are now generally accepted with some additions of newly described taxa and modifications based on phylogenetic studies. Continuing interest in the plant bladder 

Mary Treat repeatedly observed the tiny bladders of the Utricularia genus under her microscope trap minute animal life as a mosquito larva, for example, triggered sensitive filaments at the mouth of the bladder, snapping it shut. But one mystery baffled her: “I soon became satisfied that the valve was very sensitive when touched at the right point, but to this day I cannot tell what the power is that so quickly draws the creatures within.” Recent research based on phylogenetics has answered some questions and raised others. The Utricularia bladder has long fascinated scientists. “Although the Utricularia traps are the smallest among those of carnivorous plants, they are arguably the most sophisticated and intricate ones.”

Three observations from recent research 

Czech Republic botanist Lubomir Adamec has summarized the extensive research that has recently been done with species in the Utricularia genus – with a focus on its carnivorous bladder. Three things are clear. This plant expends a tremendous output of energy through its string of bladders. “When a prey species touches sensory hairs situated on the trap door it opens, the small animal is aspirated into the trap and the door closes again. This process of firing is complete within 10 -- 15 ms [milliseconds] and is the most rapid plant movement known.” The source of this ATP energy -- Adenosine triphosphate, the molecule for storing and transferring energy in cells—is still an open research question. This Utricularia resupinata picture of two bladders on the plant's stem captures the luminescence of these bladders with their "trap door" and trigger filaments branching out. Second, not all of the minute animals sucked into the Utricularia traps are digested, because it has been found that some of the organisms in this “bladder soup” actually assist in prey decomposition, a process similar to what happens in an efficient septic system.