[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Propulsion Mechanics | Topic: Combustion Processes in Hybrid Rocket Engines | Type: OpenAlex-OA | Level: Graduate]

[OpenAlex | Propulsion Engineering | Year: 1996 | Citations: 1]

Title: Combustion Processes in Hybrid Rocket Engines

Abstract:
In recent years, there has been a resurgence of interest in the development of hybrid rocket engines for advanced launch vehicle applications. Hybrid propulsion systems use a solid fuel such as hydroxyl-terminated polybutadiene (HTPB) along with a gaseous/liquid oxidizer. The performance of hybrid combustors depends on the convective and radiative heat fluxes to the fuel surface, the rate of pyrolysis in the solid phase, and the turbulent combustion processes in the gaseous phases. These processes in combination specify the regression rates of the fuel surface and thereby the utilization efficiency of the fuel. In this paper, we employ computational fluid dynamics (CFD) techniques in order to gain a quantitative understanding of the physical trends in hybrid rocket combustors. The computational modeling is tailored to ongoing experiments at Penn State that employ a two dimensional slab burner configuration. The coordinated computational/experimental effort enables model validation while providing an understanding of the experimental observations. Computations to date have included the full length geometry with and with the aft nozzle section as well as shorter length domains for extensive parametric characterization. HTPB is sed as the fuel with 1,3 butadiene being taken as the gaseous product of the pyrolysis. Pure gaseous oxygen is taken as the oxidizer. The fuel regression rate is specified using an Arrhenius rate reaction, which the fuel surface temperature is given by an energy balance involving gas-phase convection and radiation as well as thermal conduction in the solid-phase. For the gas-phase combustion, a two step global reaction is used. The standard kappa - epsilon model is used for turbulence closure. Radiation is presently treated using a simple diffusion approximation which is valid for large optical path lengths, representative of radiation from soot particles. Computational results are obtained to determine the trends in the fuel burning or regression rates as a function of the head-end oxidizer mass flux, G=rho(e)U(e), and the chamber pressure. Furthermore, computation of the full slab burner configuration has also been obtained for various stages of the burn. Comparisons with available experimental data from small scale tests conducted by General Dynamics-Thiokol-Rocketdyne suggest reasonable agreement in the predicted regression rates. Future work will include: (1) a model for soot generation in the flame for more quantitative radiative transfer modelling, (2) a parametric study of combustion efficiency, and (3) transient calculations to help determine the possible mechanisms responsible for combustion instability in hybrid rocket motors.