[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: Maxwell's equations in curved spacetime | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Maxwell's equations in curved spacetime — Overview

be a dynamical variable dependent on the electromagnetic field, then the electromagnetic wave equation and Maxwell's equations are nonlinear. This can be seen by noting that the curvature tensor depends on the stress–energy tensor through the Einstein field equation where is the Einstein tensor, G is the gravitational constant, gab is the metric tensor, and R (scalar curvature) is the trace of the Ricci curvature tensor. The stress–energy tensor is composed of the stress–energy from particles, but also stress–energy from the electromagnetic field. This generates the nonlinearity. Geometric formulation 

In the differential geometric formulation of the electromagnetic field, the antisymmetric Faraday tensor can be considered as the Faraday 2-form . In this view, one of Maxwell's two equations is 
 
where  is the exterior derivative operator. This equation is completely coordinate- and metric-independent and says that the electromagnetic flux through a closed two-dimensional surface in space–time is topological, more precisely, depends only on its homology class (a generalization of the integral form of Gauss law and Maxwell–Faraday equation, as the homology class in Minkowski space is automatically 0). By the Poincaré lemma, this equation implies (at least locally) that there exists a 1-form  satisfying
 
The other Maxwell equation is
 
In this context,  is the current 3-form (or even more precise, twisted 3-form), and the star  denotes the Hodge star operator. The dependence of Maxwell's equation on the metric of spacetime lies in the Hodge star operator  on 2-forms, which is conformally invariant. Written this way, Maxwell's equation is the same in any space–time, manifestly coordinate-invariant, and convenient to use (even in Minkowski space or Euclidean space and time, especially with curvilinear coordinates). An alternative geometric interpretation is that the Faraday 2-form  is (up to a factor ) the curvature 2-form  of a U(1)-connection  on a principal U(1)-bundle whose sections represent charged fields. The connection is much like the vector potential, since every connection can be written as  for a "base" connection , and
 
In this view, the Maxwell "equation"  is a mathematical identity known as the Bianchi identity. The equation  is the only equation with any physical content in this formulation. This point of view is particularly natural when considering charged fields or quantum mechanics. It can be interpreted as saying that, much like gravity can be understood as being the result of the necessity of a connection to parallel transport vectors at different points, electromagnetic phenomena, or more subtle quantum effects like the Aharonov–Bohm effect, can be understood as a result from the necessity of a connection to parallel transport charged fields or wave sections at different points. In fact, just as the Riemann tensor is the holonomy of the Levi-Civita connection along an infinitesimal closed curve, the curvature of the connection is the holonomy of the U(1)-connection. See also
 Electromagnetic wave equation
 Inhomogeneous electromagnetic wave equation
 Mathematical descriptions of the electromagnetic field
 Covariant formulation of classical electromagnetism
 Theoretical motivation for general relativity
 Introduction to the mathematics of general relativity
 Electrovacuum solution
 Paradox of radiation of charged particles in a gravitational field

Notes

References

External links
 Electromagnetic fields in curved spacetimes

Maxwell's equations in curved spacetime
Maxwell's equations in curved spacetime
Curved spacetime