[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: A Modern Herbal — Mrs. M. Grieve | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# A Modern Herbal — Mrs. M. Grieve — Overview

passing judgement on what is admittedly an indefensible system, that during the war which resulted in the freeing of the American slaves the slaveholders of the South trusted their household slaves to protect the women and children during their absence from home and that that trust was nowhere betrayed. There is another side to _Uncle Tom's Cabin_ as surely as there is another side to Mr. Carnegie's paean of modern industrialism in his _Triumphant
Democracy_. Systems of serfdom or caste which bind the workman to his work without
permitting him to be sold like a slave may be regarded as one step
higher than slavery proper. Such systems are common in stable and
custom-bound countries, and persisted throughout the European Middle
Ages. We need not describe how the rising tide of change gradually broke
up the system in this country and left the old-time villein a free but
often a landless and property less man. The transition from serfdom to
the system of wage-labour which succeeded it was a transition from legal
dependence to legal freedom, and as such it marked an advance. But it
was also a transition from a fixed and, as it were, a professional
position of service to the community to a blind and precarious
individualism. It was a transition, as Sir Henry Maine put it, from
status to contract. This famous nineteenth-century aphorism is eloquent
of the limitations of that too purely commercial age. Every thinking man
would admit to-day that status at its best is a better thing than
contract at its best--that the soldier is a nobler figure than the army
contractor, and that corporate feeling and professional honour are a
better stimulus to right action than business competition and a laudable
keenness to give satisfaction to a valuable customer. We have always
suffered from the temptation in this country of adapting business
methods and ideals to politics rather than political ideals and methods
to business. Our eighteenth-century thinkers explained citizenship
itself, not as a duty to our neighbours but as the fulfilment of an
unwritten contract. Our nineteenth-century legal writers elevated the
idea of free contract almost to an industrial ideal; while, in somewhat
the same spirit, the gutter journalists of to-day, when they are at a
loss for a popular watchword, call for a business government. Such
theories and battle-cries may serve for a 'nation of shopkeepers'; but
that opprobrious phrase has never been true of the great mass of the
English people, and it was never less true than to-day. The idea of industrial work as the fulfilment of a contract, whether
freely or forcibly made, is thus essentially at variance with the ideal
of community service. It is difficult for a man who makes his livelihood
by hiring himself out as an individual for what he can get out of one
piece of work after another to feel the same sense of community service
or professional pride as the man who is serving a vocation and has
dedicated his talents to some continuous and recognized form of work. It
is this which makes the system of wage-labour so unsatisfactory in
principle compared with the guilds of the town workmen in the Middle
Ages and with the organized professions of to-day; and it is this which
explains why trade unions of recent years have come to concern
themselves more and more with questions of status rather than of wages
and to regard the occupation which they represent more and more as a
profession rather than a trade. No one has laid bare the deficiencies of
the wage-system more clearly than Adam Smith in the famous chapter in
which he foreshadows the principle of collective bargaining. 'What are
the common wages of labour', he there remarks,[79]

     'depends everywhere upon the contract usually made between
     those two parties, whose interests are by no means the same. The workmen desire to get as much, the masters to give as
     little, as possible. The former are disposed to combine in
     order to raise, the latter in order to lower, the wages of
     labour.... We rarely hear, it has been said, of the
     combinations of masters, though frequently of those of
     workmen. But whoever imagines, upon this account, that
     masters rarely combine is as ignorant of the world as of the
     subject. Masters are always and everywhere in a sort of
     tacit but constant and uniform combination not to raise the
     wages of labour above their actual rate. To violate this
     combination is everywhere a most unpopular action and a sort
     of reproach to a master among his neighbours and equals. We
     seldom, indeed, hear of this combination, because it is the
     usual, and one may say, the natural state of things which
     nobody ever hears of. Masters, too, sometimes enter into
     particular combinations to sink the wages of labour even
     below this rate. These are always conducted with the utmost
     secrecy till the moment of execution; and, when the workmen
     yield, as they sometimes do without resistance, though
     severely felt by them, they are never heard of by other
     people.