[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: Herbals: Their Origin and Evolution — Arber | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Herbals: Their Origin and Evolution — Arber — Overview

direction aft, and lodging in the rudder post. This shot was from the Blakely rifle. One shot, carrying away starboard life-buoy. Three 32-pounder shots through port bulwarks, forward of mizzen-mast. A shell, exploding after end of pivot port. A shell, exploding after end of chain-plating. A 68-lb. shell, passing through starboard bulwarks below main rigging, wounding three men--the only casualties amongst the crew during the engagement. A Blakely-rifle shell, passing through the engine-room sky-light, and
    dropping harmlessly in the water beyond the vessel. Two shots below plank-sheer, abreast of boiler hatch. One forward pivot port plank sheer. One forward foremast-rigging. A shot striking Launch's toping-lift. A rifle-shell, passing through funnel, bursting without damage inside. One, starboard forward main-shroud. One, starboard after-shroud main-topmast rigging. One, main topsail tye. One, main topsail outhaul. One, main topsail runner. Two, through port-quarter boat. One, through spanker (furled). One, starboard forward shroud, mizzen rigging. One, starboard mizzen-topmast backstay. One, through mizzen peak-signal halyards, which cut the stops when the
    battle was nearly over, and for the first time let loose the flag to
    the breeze. This list of damages received by the Kearsarge proves the exceedingly bad
fire of the Alabama, notwithstanding the numbers of men on board the
latter belonging to our "Naval Reserve," and the trained hands from the
gunnery ship "Excellent." I was informed by some of the paroled prisoners
on shore at Cherbourg that Captain Semmes fired rapidly at the
commencement of the action "in order to frighten the Yankees," nearly all
the officers and crew being, as he was well aware, merely volunteers from
the merchant service.[10] At the expiration of twenty minutes after the
Kearsarge discharged the first broadside, continuing the battle in a
leisurely, cool manner, Semmes remarked: "Confound them; they've been
fighting twenty minutes, and they're as cool as posts." The probabilities
are that the crew of the Federal vessel had learnt not to regard as
dangerous the rapid and hap-hazard practice of the Alabama. From the time of her first reaching Cherbourg until she finally quitted
the port, the Kearsarge never received the slightest assistance from
shore, with the exception of that rendered by a boiler maker in patching
up her funnel. Every other repair was completed by her own hands, and she
might have crossed the Atlantic immediately after the action without
difficulty. So much for Mr. Lancaster's statement that "the Kearsarge was
apparently much disabled."


SEMMES' DESIGN TO BOARD THE KEARSARGE. The first accounts received of the action led us to suppose that Captain
Semmes' intention was to lay his vessel alongside the enemy, and to carry
her by boarding. Whether this information came from the Captain himself or
was made out of "whole cloth" by some of his admirers, the idea of
boarding a vessel under steam--unless her engines, or screw, or rudder be
disabled--is manifestly ridiculous. The days of boarding are gone by,
except under the contingencies above stated; and any such attempt on the
part of the Alabama would have been attended with disastrous results to
herself and crew. To have boarded the Kearsarge, Semmes must have
possessed greater speed to enable him to run alongside her; and the moment
the pursuer came near her victim, the latter would shut off steam, drop
astern in a second of time, sheer off, discharge her whole broadside of
grape and canister, and rake her antagonist from stern to stem. Our
pro-southern sympathizers really ought not to make their _protegé_ appear
ridiculous by ascribing to him such an egregious intention. NATIONALITY OF THE CREW OF THE KEARSARGE

It has frequently been asserted that the major portion of the Northern
armies is composed of foreigners, and the same statement is made in
reference to the crews of the American Navy. The report got abroad in
Cherbourg that the victory of the Kearsarge was due to her having taken on
board a number of French gunners at Brest; and an admiral of the French
Navy asked me in perfectly good faith whether it were not the fact. It
will not, therefore, be out of place to give the names and nationalities
of the officers and crew on board the Kearsarge during her action with the
Alabama. OFFICERS OF THE U.S.S. KEARSARGE, JUNE 19, 1864. NAMES. RANK. NATIVE OF
  John A. Winslow       Captain                  North Carolina[11]
  James S. Thornton     Lieut. Commander         New Hampshire
  John M. Browne        Surgeon                       "
  J. Adams Smith        Paymaster                Maine
  Wm. H. Cushman        Chief Engineer           Pennsylvania
  James R. Wheeler      Acting Master            Massachusetts
  Eben. M. Stoddard       "      "               Connecticut
  David H. Sumner         "      "               Maine
  Wm. H. Badlam         2d Asst.