[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: magnetic resonance spectroscopy metabolite brain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: magnetic resonance spectroscopy metabolite brain]

18. Psychiatry Res Neuroimaging. 2018 Mar 30;273:1-8. doi: 
10.1016/j.pscychresns.2018.01.001. Epub 2018 Jan 17.

Proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy changes after lithium treatment. 
Systematic review.

Szulc A(1), Wiedlocha M(2), Waszkiewicz N(3), Galińska-Skok B(3), Marcinowicz 
P(1), Gierus J(1), Mosiolek A(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Medical University of Warsaw, Pruszkow, Poland.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, Medical University of Warsaw, Pruszkow, Poland. 
Electronic address: mwiedlocha@wp.pl.
(3)Department of Psychiatry, Medical University of Białystok, Choroszcz, Poland.
(4)Department of Psychiatry, Medical University of Warsaw, Pruszkow, Poland; 
Department of Psychiatry, Medical University of Białystok, Choroszcz, Poland.

1H MRS is widely used in the research of mental disorders. It enables evaluation 
of concentration or ratios of several metabolites, which play important roles in 
brain metabolism: N-acetylaspartate (NAA), choline containing compounds, 
myo-inositol and glutamate, glutamine and GABA (together as Glx complex or 
separately). Specifically in bipolar disorder brain metabolite abnormalities 
include mostly NAA reduces and Glx increases in different brain regions. Bipolar 
disorder is associated with impairment in neurotrophic and cellular plasticity, 
resilience pathways and in neuroprotective processes. Lithium, which is commonly 
used in BD treatment, modulates neurotransmitter release, reduces oxidative 
stress and apoptosis, induces angiogenesis, neurogenesis and neurotrophic 
response. Thus brain metabolite abnormalities may elucidate the mechanisms of 
this processes. In the present article we systematically reviewed 26 studies - 
the majority of them investigated bipolar disorder ( 7 follow-up and all 11 
cross-sectional studies). Moreover we dispute whether the influence of lithium 
on brain metabolites in bipolar disorder could explain the background of its 
potential neuroprotective action. The results of our literature review do not 
equivocally confirm Lithium's influence the metabolite changes in the brain. The 
majority of the follow-up studies do not support the initially assumed influence 
of Lithium on the increase of NAA level in various brain structures. The results 
of studies are inconclusive with regard to levels of Glx or Glu and Lithium 
intake, rather point a lack of relationship. The above results were reviewed 
according to the most recent theories in the field accounting for the impact of 
lithium (1)HMRS measures.

Copyright © 2018. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pscychresns.2018.01.001
PMID: 29414126 [Indexed for MEDLINE]