[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: optical coherence tomography retinal diagnosis | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: optical coherence tomography retinal diagnosis]

10. Curr Opin Ophthalmol. 2014 Nov;25(6):488-94. doi:
10.1097/ICU.0000000000000101.

Birdshot chorioretinopathy.

Shao EH(1), Menezo V, Taylor SR.

Author information:
(1)aFaculty of Medicine, Imperial College London, Hammersmith Hospital, London 
bRoyal Surrey County Hospital NHS Foundation Trust, Guildford, UK cInstitut 
Catala de Retina, Barcelona dDepartment of Ophthalmology, Provincial Hospital 
Consortium Castellon, Castello, Spain.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Birdshot chorioretinopathy remains incompletely understood, 
but new insights into its pathogenesis have been reported recently, and 
treatment and monitoring options have also expanded. Central visual acuity may 
remain good until the late stages of the disease, but loss of visual field and 
peripheral retinal function is common.
RECENT FINDINGS: The underlying pathogenesis of the disease has long been 
believed to be T-cell driven, but examination of the IL-17 pathway has now 
further refined the potential underlying mechanism. New imaging techniques, 
including extended depth imaging of the choroid with optical coherence 
tomography, have demonstrated promise in detecting disease activity earlier, 
enabling targeted treatment to be given. Treatment options have expanded with 
the advent of the biological agents, and these may yet improve outcomes, 
particularly in refractory patients.
SUMMARY: Laboratory research continues to investigate the underlying mechanisms 
of disease, but our understanding remains frustratingly incomplete for a disease 
with such a clear HLA association. Clinical research is increasingly being 
driven to improve the phenotyping of affected patients so that those at risk of 
visual loss can be identified early and treated more aggressively with 
individually targeted therapies such as the newer biological agents, but how 
successful this approach will ultimately prove to be remains to be seen.

DOI: 10.1097/ICU.0000000000000101
PMID: 25211040 [Indexed for MEDLINE]