[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: MRI physics image quality artifact reduction | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: MRI physics image quality artifact reduction]

37. J Vis Exp. 2016 Dec 18;(118):52352. doi: 10.3791/52352.

Quantitative Magnetic Resonance Imaging of Skeletal Muscle Disease.

Damon BM(1), Li K(2), Dortch RD(2), Welch EB(2), Park JH(3), Buck AK(2), Towse 
TF(4), Does MD(5), Gochberg DF(6), Bryant ND(2).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Imaging Science, Vanderbilt University; Department of Radiology 
and Radiological Sciences, Vanderbilt University; Department of Biomedical 
Engineering, Vanderbilt University; Department of Molecular Physiology and 
Biophysics, Vanderbilt University; bruce.damon@vanderbilt.edu.
(2)Institute of Imaging Science, Vanderbilt University; Department of Radiology 
and Radiological Sciences, Vanderbilt University.
(3)Institute of Imaging Science, Vanderbilt University; Department of Radiology 
and Radiological Sciences, Vanderbilt University; Department of Molecular 
Physiology and Biophysics, Vanderbilt University.
(4)Institute of Imaging Science, Vanderbilt University; Department of Radiology 
and Radiological Sciences, Vanderbilt University; Department of Physical 
Medicine and Rehabilitation, Vanderbilt University.
(5)Institute of Imaging Science, Vanderbilt University; Department of Radiology 
and Radiological Sciences, Vanderbilt University; Department of Biomedical 
Engineering, Vanderbilt University.
(6)Institute of Imaging Science, Vanderbilt University; Department of Radiology 
and Radiological Sciences, Vanderbilt University; Department of Physics and 
Astronomy, Vanderbilt University.

Quantitative magnetic resonance imaging (qMRI) describes the development and use 
of MRI to quantify physical, chemical, and/or biological properties of living 
systems. Neuromuscular diseases often exhibit a temporally varying, spatially 
heterogeneous, and multi-faceted pathology. The goal of this protocol is to 
characterize this pathology using qMRI methods. The MRI acquisition protocol 
begins with localizer images (used to locate the position of the body and tissue 
of interest within the MRI system), quality control measurements of relevant 
magnetic field distributions, and structural imaging for general anatomical 
characterization. The qMRI portion of the protocol includes measurements of the 
longitudinal and transverse relaxation time constants (T1 and T2, respectively). 
Also acquired are diffusion-tensor MRI data, in which water diffusivity is 
measured and used to infer pathological processes such as edema. Quantitative 
magnetization transfer imaging is used to characterize the relative tissue 
content of macromolecular and free water protons. Lastly, fat-water MRI methods 
are used to characterize fibro-adipose tissue replacement of muscle. In addition 
to describing the data acquisition and analysis procedures, this paper also 
discusses the potential problems associated with these methods, the analysis and 
interpretation of the data, MRI safety, and strategies for artifact reduction 
and protocol optimization.

DOI: 10.3791/52352
PMCID: PMC5226425
PMID: 28060254 [Indexed for MEDLINE]