[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Complex Circuit Systems | Topic: Floating-gate MOSFET | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Floating-gate MOSFET — Overview

transconductances, an output transconductance and a bulk transconductance. Respectively: where is the total capacitance seen by the floating gate. These equations show two drawbacks of the FGMOS compared with the MOS transistor: Reduction of the input transconductance Reduction of the output resistance Simulation Under normal conditions, a floating node in a circuit represents an error because its initial condition is unknown unless it is somehow fixed. This generates two problems: 

 It is not easy to simulate these circuits
 An unknown amount of charge might stay trapped at the floating gate during the fabrication process which will result in an unknown initial condition for the FG voltage. Among the many solutions proposed for the computer simulation, one of the most promising methods is an Initial Transient Analysis (ITA) proposed by Rodriguez-Villegas, where the FGs are set to zero volts or a previously known voltage based on the measurement of the charge trapped in the FG after the fabrication process. A transient analysis is then run with the supply voltages set to their final values, letting the outputs evolve normally. The values of the FGs can then be extracted and used for posterior small-signal simulations, connecting a voltage supply with the initial FG value to the floating gate using a very-high-value inductor. Applications
The usage and applications of the FGMOS can be broadly classified in two cases. If the charge in the floating gate is not modified during the circuit usage, the operation is capacitively coupled. In the capacitively coupled regime of operation, the net charge in the floating gate is not modified. Examples of application for this regime are single transistor adders, DACs, multipliers and logic functions, and variable threshold inverters. Using the FGMOS as a programmable charge element, it is commonly used for non-volatile storage such as flash, EPROM and EEPROM memory. In this context, floating-gate MOSFETs are useful because of their ability to store an electrical charge for extended periods of time without a connection to a power supply. Other applications of the FGMOS are neuronal computational element in neural networks, analog storage element and e-pots. See also
 Charge trap flash
 Fe FET
 IGBT
 MOSFET
 SONOS

References

External links
 EXPLOITING FLOATING-GATE TRANSISTOR PROPERTIES IN ANALOG AND MIXED-SIGNAL CIRCUIT DESIGN
 Howstuffworks "How ROM Works"
 Floating Gate Devices
 FLOATING-GATE TRANSISTORS IN ANALOG AND MIXED-SIGNAL CIRCUIT DESIGN
 Tunable and reconfigurable circuits using floating-gate transistors

Transistor types
MOSFETs