[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: pharmacognosy medicinal plant active compound isol | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: pharmacognosy medicinal plant active compound isolation]

74. Nat Prod Res. 2025 Apr;39(8):2277-2292. doi: 10.1080/14786419.2024.2370045.
Epub  2024 Jul 1.

Crotalaria burhia Buch. -Ham.: a comprehensive review of its botany, traditional 
uses, phytochemistry, and pharmacology.

Anwar S(1), Saleem H(2), Azmat T(2), Khurshid U(3), Khan KM(2), Chohan TA(2), 
Khursheed A(4), Alamri A(1), Awadh Ali NA(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, College of Pharmacy, University of 
Ha'il, Hail, Saudi Arabia.
(2)Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences (IPS), University of Veterinary and 
Animal Sciences (UVAS), Lahore, Pakistan.
(3)Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, Faculty of Pharmacy, The Islamia 
University of Bahawalpur, Bahawalpur, Pakistan.
(4)Faculty of Pharmacy, Grand Asian University Sialkot, Sialkot, Pakistan.
(5)Department of Pharmacognosy and Medicinal Herbs, Faculty of Pharmacy, Al-Baha 
University, Al-Baha, Saudi Arabia.

Crotalaria burhia (Family: Fabaceae) is an important medicinal plant widely 
distributed in arid parts of the world, including Pakistan, India, and 
Afghanistan. This plant has enormous ethnobotanical values and is used to treat 
various common ailments such as swelling, infections, cancer, hydrophobia, pain 
and skin diseases. Moreover, it is also utilised as food for goats, to make 
sheds for animals and as a suitable soil binder. This review article is an 
attempt to analyse critically and to provide updated and categorised information 
about C. burhia including comprehensive knowledge of the botanical description, 
traditional/folklore uses, phytochemistry, pharmacological/biological potential, 
and to facilitate scientific basis for future work. The phytochemical studies 
(qualitative and quantitative) on C. burhia have indicated the presence of 
important phytochemical classes, namely alkaloids, flavonoids, glycosides, 
saponins, phenolics, tannins, steroids, and terpenoids. Pharmacological studies 
such as anti-inflammatory/analgesic, antioxidant, anti-microbial, anti-tumour, 
anti-nociceptive, enzyme inhibition, and termiticidal activities were reported 
from different parts of this plant. Most of the bioassays from this plant have 
been done on the crude extract. Minimal information about the phytochemicals 
(responsible for biological activities), except a few compounds has been 
reported. The potential chemical compounds may need to be purified and tested 
for the biological potential from isolated compounds in future.

DOI: 10.1080/14786419.2024.2370045
PMID: 38949575 [Indexed for MEDLINE]