[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: List of Burmese Muslims | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# List of Burmese Muslims — Overview

on freedom of expression in prison later his prison sentence was extended for seven more years. He was awarded of Freedom to Write Award by the Canadian Journalists for Freedom of Expression (CJFE) in 2001 and recognised as an honorary member of PEN International. He was released on 13 February 2002 under amnesty. He and his colleagues tried to take up Myanmar PEN center in 2013. He was elected as a board member and currently he is the President of PEN Myanmar Center. He publishes the Info-Digest bi-monthly news digest journal. Karim Ghani
Karim Ghani was born in Sothugudi, Ilayangudi, a politician in South-East Asia of Indian origin Karim Ghani. Before the Second World War Karim Ghani was a parliamentary secretary in Burma under Dr. Ba Maw. U Raschid
U Raschid, an Indian Myanmar Muslim, was active in the student movement against the ruling British. He was the first general secretary of the Rangoon University Students’ Union in 1931 together with prominent Myanmar political leaders: Aung San, U Nu, U Kyaw Nyein, U Ba Swe etc. U Nu was the first president of the Rangoon University Students Union (RUSU)in 1935-1936 with Mr. M. A. Rashid as Vice-President and U Thi Han as the General Secretary. U Raschid was the president of the All Burma Students’ Union, while being concurrently president of the Rangoon University Students' Union in 1936 - 1937. Aung San was then vice-president. In 1952 U Nu appointed him as Minister for Housing and Labour, later in 1954, Minister for Trade and Development, in 1956, Minister of Mines, in 1960 Minister of Commerce and Industry. In 1958 he was the Vice President of the Trade Union Council of Burma. U Nu requested him to change his name to U Yanshin to make him more acceptable to other Buddhist but he declined. General Ne Win arrested him in 1962, during the coup. Kan Chun 
Kan Chun @ Mohamad Omar is a Satirist, Journalist, Novelist, Cartoonist and Artist (Painter) from Mandalay, Burma. Born in Mandalay on 4 April 1946 from the parents U Ba Htay and Daw Aye Shwin. Died on 20 August 2009 in Mandalay. Hajima Pyinmanar (Sein) Daw Pu. Hajima Daw Pu was also a famous Myanmar-Muslim philanthropist. Because of her donation of a new Kidney Hospital and good social relations with General Ne Win, Military Government even awarded her with a medal for her outstanding social deeds. Sultan Mahmood (Health Minister)
Wealthy and influential Myanmar Muslim, Sultan Mahmood was the political secretary in U Nu's government and later was appointed as Health Minister. Other MPs (Member of Parliament)
Other Rohingya Myanmar Muslims in U Nu's Parliament as parliamentary secretaries were Mr Sultan Ahmed and Mr Abdul Gaffar. Mr Abdul Bashar, Mrs. Zohora Begum @ Daw Aye Nyunt, Mr Abdul Khair, Mr Abdus Sobhan, Mr Abdul Bashar, Mr Rashid Ahmed, Mr Nasiruddin (U Pho Khine), were members of Parliament in different terms in U Nu's Government. Colonel (Tat Hmu Gyi) U Pho Kar
He started to enlist in Mindon's Cannon regiment since young. During King Thibaw's reign, he was the Captain on the Sekyar Ngwezin Thulu ship which went to Bhamo to fight in the Sino-Burmese War. During the third Anglo-Burmese war, he was at Min Hla Fort leading 200 Cannoners. U Pho Kar was together there with his uncles Captain Bo Kyae, Captain Bo U Maung, Sergeant (Thwe Thaut) U Kyar Yone. At the battle, one Captain and 50 soldiers killed. Burmese had to retreat and U Pho Kar retreated with the gunshot wound on the abdomen. After the war he settled in Maymyo. Parliamentarian Haji U Than Nyunt was his son. U Pho Kar died on 10 May 1956 at the age of 95. Ambassador U Pe Khin was the most important negotiator and architect of the historical Panglon treaty. Even General Aung San was disappointed, given up and decided to take the flight back to Rangoon that evening. U Pe Khin persuaded General Aung San to stay for one night and to allow him to negotiate with the Ethnic Minority leaders. U Pe Khin successfully negotiated with those Ethnic leaders to get an agreement for this most important treaty in Burma, which was the foundation for the Union of Burma and its Independence. Myanmar Muslim activists
U Aung Thin represented the Myanmar Muslims at the Round Table Committee on whether Burma should be separated from India or not. That was held at London, in 1930. Ko Ni
Ko Ni (1953–2017) was a lawyer and an expert on constitutional law. Notable Burmese Muslims under Burmese Kings 

All the list of persons below are taken from the "Twentieth Anniversary Special Edition of Islam Damma Beikman." Myanmar Pyi and Islamic religion. The reprint of the records of the lectures given by Pathi U Ko Lay in 1973. from page 109,110 and 111

Naymyo Gonnayap Khan Sab Bo @ Abdul Karim Khan. Ambassador to Indochina. Minister Mingyi Maha Min Htin Yar Zar @ U Chone, Akhbad Myin Wun, cavalry Captain, Mayor of Pin Lae town. Maha Min Kyaw Thiha Min Htin @ U Pho Yit, Mayor of Tapae town. Min Hla Min Htin Yarzar @ U Nae Htun, Kala Won. Maha Bawga Dana Thiri Yarzar Mulla Ismail(a)Min Hla Maung Maung,Custom Chief.