[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: Arsenical bronze | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Arsenical bronze — Overview

more likely due to possible local exploitation of mineral resources. On the other hand, the artefacts show typological connections to the Eurasian steppe. The Eneolithic period in Northern Italy, with the Remedello and Rinaldone cultures in 2800 to 2200 BC, saw the use of arsenical bronze. Indeed, it seems that arsenical bronze was the most common alloy in use in the Mediterranean basin at this time. In South America, arsenical bronze was the predominant alloy in Ecuador and north and central Peru, because of the rich arsenic bearing ores present there. By contrast, the south and central Andes, southern Peru, Bolivia and parts of Argentina, were rich in the tin ore cassiterite and thus did not use arsenical bronze. The Sican Culture of northwestern coastal Peru is famous for its use of arsenical bronze during the period 900 to 1350 AD. Arsenical bronze co-existed with tin bronze in the Andes, probably due to its greater ductility which meant it could be easily hammered into thin sheets which were valued in local society. Arsenical bronze after the Bronze Age 
The archaeological record in Egypt, Peru and the Caucasus suggests that arsenical bronze was produced for a time alongside tin bronze. At Tepe Yahya its use continued into the Iron Age for the manufacture of trinkets and decorative objects, thus demonstrating that there was not a simple succession of alloys over time, with superior new alloys replacing older ones. There are few real advantages metallurgically for the superiority of tin bronze, and early authors suggested that arsenical bronze was phased out due to its health effects. It is more likely that it was phased out in general use because alloying with tin gave castings which had similar strength to arsenical bronze but did not require further work-hardening to achieve useful strength. It is also probable that more certain results could be achieved with the use of tin, because it could be added directly to the copper in specific amounts, whereas the precise amount of arsenic being added was much harder to gauge due to the manufacturing process. Health effects of arsenical bronze use 
Arsenic is an element with a vaporization point of 615 °C, such that arsenical oxide will be lost from the melt before or during casting, and fumes from fire setting for mining and ore processing have long been known to attack the nervous system, eyes, lungs, and skin. Chronic arsenic poisoning leads to peripheral neuropathy, which can cause weakness in the legs and feet. It has been speculated that this lay behind the legend of lame smiths in many cultures and myths, such as the Greek god Hephaestus. As Hephaestus was an iron-age smith, not a bronze-age smith, the connection would be one from ancient folk memory. A well-preserved mummy of a man who lived around 3,200 BC found in the Ötztal Alps, popularly known as Ötzi, showed high levels of both copper particles and arsenic in his hair. This, along with Ötzi's copper axe blade, which is 99.7% pure copper, has led scientists to speculate that he was involved in copper smelting. Modern uses of arsenical bronze 
Arsenical bronze has seen little use in the modern period. It appears that the closest equivalent goes by the name of arsenical copper, defined as copper with under 0.5 wt% As, below the accepted percentage in archaeological artefacts. The presence of 0.5 wt% arsenic in copper lowers the electrical conductivity to 34% of that of pure copper, and even as little as 0.05 wt% decreases it by 15%. See also 
 Arsenical copper
 Arsenical brass

References

External links 

Bronze Age
Copper alloys
History of metallurgy
Coinage metals and alloys
Arsenic