[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: Ceramic capacitor | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Ceramic capacitor — Overview

may in some cases possibly cause problems in the function of an electronic circuit or can be a safety risk to personnel. To prevent shocks, most very large capacitors like power capacitors are shipped with shorting wires that are removed before use. Microphony All class 2 ceramic capacitors using ferroelectric ceramics exhibit piezoelectricity, and have a piezoelectric effect called microphonics, microphony or in audio applications squealing. Microphony describes the phenomenon wherein electronic components transform mechanical vibrations into an electrical signal which in many cases is undesired noise. Sensitive electronic preamplifiers generally use class 1 ceramic and film capacitors to avoid this effect. In the reverse microphonic effect, the varying electric field between the capacitor plates exerts a physical force, moving them as a speaker. High current impulse loads or high ripple currents can generate audible acoustic sound coming from the capacitor, but discharges the capacitor and stresses the dielectric. Soldering
Ceramic capacitors may experience changes to their electrical parameters due to soldering stress. The heat of the solder bath, especially for SMD styles, can cause changes of contact resistance between terminals and electrodes. For ferroelectric class 2 ceramic capacitors, the soldering temperature is above the Curie point. The polarized domains in the dielectric are going back and the aging process of class 2 ceramic capacitors is starting again. Hence after soldering a recovery time of approximately 24 hours is necessary. After recovery some electrical parameters like capacitance value, ESR, leakage currents are changed irreversibly. The changes are in the lower percentage range depending on the style of capacitor. Additional information

Standardization
The standardization for all electrical, electronic components and related technologies follows the rules given by the International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC), a non-profit, non-governmental international standards organization. The definition of the characteristics and the procedure of the test methods for capacitors for use in electronic equipment are set out in the generic specification:
 IEC 60384-1, Fixed capacitors for use in electronic equipment – Part 1: Generic specification

The tests and requirements to be met by ceramic capacitors for use in electronic equipment for approval as standardized types are set out in the following sectional specifications:

 IEC 60384-8, Fixed capacitors of ceramic dielectric, Class 1
 IEC 60384-9, Fixed capacitors of ceramic dielectric, Class 2
 IEC 60384-21, Fixed surface mount multilayer capacitors of ceramic dielectric, Class 1
 IEC 60384-22, Fixed surface mount multilayer capacitors of ceramic dielectric, Class 2

Tantalum capacitor replacement

Multilayer ceramic capacitors are increasingly used to replace tantalum and low capacitance aluminium electrolytic capacitors in applications such as bypass or high frequency switched-mode power supplies as their cost, reliability and size becomes competitive. In many applications, their low ESR allows the use of a lower nominal capacitance value. Features and disadvantages of ceramic capacitors
For features and disadvantages of ceramic capacitors see main article Capacitor types#Comparison of types

Marking

Imprinted markings
If space permits ceramic capacitors, like most other electronic components, have imprinted markings to indicate the manufacturer, the type, their electrical and thermal characteristics and their date of manufacture. In the ideal case, if they are large enough, the capacitor will be marked with:
 manufacturer's name or trademark;
 manufacturer's type designation;
 rated capacitance;
 tolerance on rated capacitance
 rated voltage and nature of supply (AC or DC)
 climatic category or rated temperature;
 year and month (or week) of manufacture;
 certification marks of safety standards (for safety EMI/RFI suppression capacitors)

Smaller capacitors use a shorthand notation, to display all the relevant information in the limited space. The most commonly used format is: XYZ J/K/M VOLTS V, where XYZ represents the capacitance (calculated as XY × 10Z pF), the letters J, K or M indicate the tolerance (±5%, ±10% and ±20% respectively) and VOLTS V represents the working voltage. Examples
 A capacitor with the following text on its body: 105K 330V has a capacitance of 10 × 105 pF = 1 µF (K = ±10%) with a working voltage of 330 V. A capacitor with the following text: 473M 100V has a capacitance of 47 × 103 pF = 47 nF (M = ±20%) with a working voltage of 100 V. Capacitance, tolerance and date of manufacture can be identified with a short code according to IEC/EN 60062. Examples of short-marking of the rated capacitance (microfarads):
 µ47 = 0.47 µF
 4µ7 = 4.7 µF
 47µ = 47 µF

The date of manufacture is often printed in accordance with international standards. Version 1: coding with year/week numeral code, "1208" is  "2012, week number 8".