[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: plant alkaloid biosynthesis pathway elucidation | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: plant alkaloid biosynthesis pathway elucidation]

64. Environ Sci Technol. 2011 Apr 15;45(8):3374-85. doi: 10.1021/es103489x. Epub 
2011 Mar 23.

Elucidation of the transformation pathway of the opium alkaloid codeine in 
biological wastewater treatment.

Wick A(1), Wagner M, Ternes TA.

Author information:
(1)Federal Institute of Hydrology (BfG) , Koblenz, Germany.

Codeine, an opium alkaloid, was transformed in aerobic batch experiments with 
activated sludge into several transformation products (TPs). For eight TPs, the 
chemical structures were unambiguously identified by a multistep approach using 
results from high-resolution mass spectrometry (HR-MS) and 1D and 2D nuclear 
magnetic resonance (NMR) experiments. For an additional 10 TPs, tentative 
structures were proposed. Most of the TPs identified exhibited only slightly 
modified molecular structures featuring double bond shifts, introduction of 
hydroxy groups, or amine demethylation. The transformation pathway of codeine in 
contact with activated sludge is characterized by a combination of biologically 
and chemically mediated reactions. Biological oxidation of codeine leads to the 
formation of the α,β-unsaturated ketone codeinone, which is the precursor for 
further abiotic and biotic transformation due to its high chemical reactivity. 
An analytical method based on solid-phase extraction and LC tandem MS detection 
was developed to confirm the formation of several TPs in wastewater treatment 
plants (WWTPs). The mass balances were comparable to those obtained from batch 
experiments. An HR-MS screening approach of TPs from dihydrocodeine and morphine 
revealed that the knowledge from the codeine transformation pathway can be 
extrapolated to the distinct transformation pathways of these structurally 
related opium alkaloids. In total, 17 TPs were proposed for morphine and 2 TPs 
for dihydrocodeine.

DOI: 10.1021/es103489x
PMID: 21428281 [Indexed for MEDLINE]