[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: Culpeper's Complete Herbal — Nicholas Culpeper | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Culpeper's Complete Herbal — Nicholas Culpeper — Overview

Shadows had come creeping out from the Purple Hills across the Green Meadows and through the Green Forest, these two little neighbors would start out to hunt for food. Whitefoot never went far from the tall, dead stub in which he was now living. He didn't dare to. He wanted to be where at the first sign of danger he could scamper back there to safety. Timmy would go some distance, but he was seldom gone long. He liked to
be where he could watch and talk with Whitefoot. You see Timmy is very
much like other people,--he likes to gossip a little. One evening Whitefoot had found it hard work to find enough food to fill
his stomach. He had kept going a little farther and a little farther
from home. Finally he was farther from it than he had ever been before. Timmy had filled his stomach and from near the top of a tree was
watching Whitefoot. Suddenly what seemed like a great Black Shadow
floated right over the tree in which Timmy was sitting, and stopped on
the top of a tall, dead tree. It was Hooty the Owl, and it was simply
good fortune that Timmy happened to see him. Timmy did not move. He knew
that he was safe so long as he kept perfectly still. He knew that Hooty
didn't know he was there. Unless he moved, those great eyes of Hooty's,
wonderful as they were, would not see him. Timmy looked over to where he had last seen Whitefoot. There he was
picking out seeds from a pine cone on the ground. The trunk of a tree
was between him and Hooty. But Timmy knew that Whitefoot hadn't seen
Hooty, and that any minute he might run out from behind that tree. If he
did Hooty would see him, and silently as a shadow would swoop down and
catch him. What was to be done? “It's no business of mine,” said Timmy to himself. “Whitefoot must look
out for himself. It is no business of mine at all. Perhaps Hooty will
fly away before Whitefoot moves. I don't want anything to happen to
Whitefoot, but if something does, it will be his own fault; he should
keep better watch.”

For a few minutes nothing happened. Then Whitefoot finished the last
seed in that cone and started to look for more. Timmy knew that in
a moment Hooty would see Whitefoot. What do you think Timmy did? He
jumped. Yes, sir, he jumped. Down, down, down, straight past the tree
on which sat Hooty the Owl, Timmy sailed. Hooty saw him. Of course. He
couldn't help but see him. He spread his great wings and was after Timmy
in an instant. Timmy struck near the foot of a tree and without wasting
a second darted around to the other side. He was just in time. Hooty was
already reaching for him. Up the tree ran Timmy and jumped again. Again
Hooty was too late. And so Timmy led Hooty the Owl away from Whitefoot
the Wood Mouse. CHAPTER XXIII: Whitefoot Spends A Dreadful Night

   Pity those who suffer fright
   In the dark and stilly night. --Whitefoot. One night of his life Whitefoot will never forget so long as he lives. Even now it makes him shiver just to think of it. Yes, sir, he shivers
even now whenever he thinks of that night. The Black Shadows had come
early that evening, so that it was quite dusk when Whitefoot crept out
of his snug little bed and climbed up to the round hole which was the
doorway of his home. He had just poked his nose out that little round
doorway when there was the most terrible sound. It seemed to him as if
it was in his very ears, so loud and terrible was it. It frightened him
so that he simply let go and tumbled backward down inside his house. Of
course it didn't hurt him any, for he landed on his soft bed. “Whooo-hoo-hoo, whooo-hoo!” came that terrible sound again, and
Whitefoot shook until his little teeth rattled. At least, that is the
way it seemed to him. It was the voice of Hooty the Owl, and Whitefoot
knew that Hooty was sitting on the top of that very stub. He was, so to
speak, on the roof of Whitefoot's house. Now in all the Green Forest there is no sound that strikes terror to
the hearts of the little people of feathers and fur equal to the hunting
call of Hooty the Owl. Hooty knows this. No one knows it better than he
does. That is why he uses it. He knows that many of the little people
are asleep, safely hidden away. He knows that it would be quite useless
for him to simply look for them. He would starve before he could find
a dinner in that way. But he knows that any one wakened from sleep
in great fright is sure to move, and if they do this they are almost
equally sure to make some little sound. His ears are so wonderful that
they can catch the faintest sound and tell exactly where it comes from. So he uses that terrible hunting cry to frighten the little people and
make them move. Now Whitefoot knew that he was safe. Hooty couldn't possibly get at him,
even should he find out that he was in there. There was nothing to fear,
but just the same, Whitefoot shivered and shook and jumped almost out of
his skin every time that Hooty hooted. He just couldn't help it. “He can't get me.