[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS neurology | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS neurology]

50. Neuroscience. 2019 Aug 10;413:22-30. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroscience.2019.05.065.
 Epub 2019 Jun 10.

Effects of Transcranial Static Magnetic Stimulation on Motor Cortex Evaluated by 
Different TMS Waveforms and Current Directions.

Davila-Pérez P(1), Pascual-Leone A(2), Cudeiro J(3).

Author information:
(1)Berenson-Allen Center for Noninvasive Brain Stimulation and Division of 
Cognitive Neurology, Department of Neurology, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical 
Center, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA; Neuroscience and Motor Control 
Group (NEUROcom), Institute for Biomedical Research (INIBIC), Universidade da 
Coruña, A Coruña, Spain. Electronic address: pdavila@bidmc.harvard.edu.
(2)Berenson-Allen Center for Noninvasive Brain Stimulation and Division of 
Cognitive Neurology, Department of Neurology, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical 
Center, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA; Institut Guttman de 
Neurorehabilitació, Universitat Autónoma de Barcelona, Badalona, Barcelona, 
Spain.
(3)Berenson-Allen Center for Noninvasive Brain Stimulation and Division of 
Cognitive Neurology, Department of Neurology, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical 
Center, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA; Neuroscience and Motor Control 
Group (NEUROcom), Institute for Biomedical Research (INIBIC), Universidade da 
Coruña, A Coruña, Spain; Centro de Estimulación Cerebral de Galicia, A Coruña, 
Spain. Electronic address: javier.cudeiro@udc.es.

Transcranial static magnetic stimulation (tSMS) modulates cortical excitability 
probably by interacting with the GABA-glutamate intracortical balance. Different 
transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) waveforms probe distinct GABA-mediated 
cortical inhibition networks. The goal of the present work is to further 
characterize tSMS-induced changes in motor cortex reactivity and 
inhibition-excitation (I/E) balance. We hypothesized that tSMS affects 
particular cortical networks and thus, the effects of tSMS would be different 
depending on the TMS waveform used to assess its results. 23 healthy young 
adults completed two sessions of real or sham tSMS. The order of the sessions 
was randomized across participants. Motor evoked potentials (MEPs), cortical 
silent period (CSP), short- and long-interval intracortical inhibition (SICI and 
LICI), and intracortical facilitation (ICF) were assessed with TMS monophasic 
posterior-anterior (monoPA; n = 9), monophasic anterior-posterior (monoAP; 
n = 7), or biphasic (biAP-PA; n = 7) pulses. Repeated measures analyses of 
variance and appropriate pairwise comparisons were performed for each TMS 
measure. After 15 min of real tSMS, the MEP amplitudes decreased compared to 
sham and baseline, SICI and LICI showed greater inhibition, and a tendency 
towards longer CSPs and less facilitation was found. These results were only 
observed with monoPA TMS. MEP amplitude increased compared to sham with monoAP 
TMS, with no clear changes in general intracortical I/E balance. Biphasic TMS 
was not able to capture any effects of tSMS. The results show that the effects 
of tSMS on cortical excitability and inhibition involve specific interneuron 
circuits that are selectively activated by monoPA TMS.

Copyright © 2019 IBRO. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroscience.2019.05.065
PMCID: PMC6688472
PMID: 31195056 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest. A.P.-L. serves on the 
scientific advisory boards for Neuronix, Starlab Neuroscience, Neuroelectrics, 
Constant Therapy, Cognito, NovaVision, and Neosync; and is listed as inventor on 
several issued and pending patents on real-time integration of transcranial 
magnetic stimulation with electroencephalography and magnetic resonance imaging. 
The remaining authors declare no competing interests.