[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: herbal medicine drug interaction pharmacokinetics | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: herbal medicine drug interaction pharmacokinetics]

63. Planta Med. 2018 Nov;84(16):1151-1164. doi: 10.1055/a-0642-1966. Epub 2018
Jun  20.

Safety and Toxicology of Magnolol and Honokiol.

Sarrica A(1), Kirika N(1), Romeo M(2), Salmona M(2), Diomede L(2).

Author information:
(1)Perfetti Van Melle Spa Lainate, Milan, Italy.
(2)Department of Molecular Biochemistry and Pharmacology, IRCCS - Istituto di 
Ricerche Farmacologiche "Mario Negri," Milan, Italy.

Magnolia officinalis and Magnolia obovata bark extracts have been used for 
thousands of years in Chinese and Japanese traditional medicines and are still 
widely employed as herbal preparations for their sedative, antioxidant, 
anti-inflammatory, antibiotic, and antispastic effects. Neolignans, particularly 
magnolol and honokiol, are the main substances responsible for the beneficial 
properties of the magnolia bark extract (MBE). The content of magnolol and 
honokiol in MBE depends on different factors, including the Magnolia plant 
species, the area of origin, the part of the plant employed, and the method used 
to prepare the extract. The biological and pharmacological activities of 
magnolol and honokiol have been extensively investigated. Here we review the 
safety and toxicological properties of magnolol and honokiol as pure substances 
or as components of concentrated MBE, including the potential side-effects in 
humans after oral intake. In vitro and in vivo genotoxicity studies indicated 
that concentrated MBE has no mutagenic and genotoxic potential, while a 
subchronic study performed according to OECD (Organisation for Economic 
Co-operation and Development) guidelines established a no adverse effect level 
for concentrated MBE > 240 mg/kg b.w/d. Similar to other dietary polyphenols, 
magnolol and honokiol are subject to glucuronidation, and despite a relatively 
quick clearance, an interaction with pharmaceutical active principles or other 
herbal constituents cannot be excluded. However, intervention trials employing 
concentrated MBE for up to 1 y did not report adverse effects. In conclusion, 
over the recent years different food safety authorities evaluated magnolol and 
honokiol and considered them safe.

Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/a-0642-1966
PMID: 29925102 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: AS and NK are employees of Perfetti Van Melle 
Spa. The Department of Molecular Biochemistry and Pharmacology of the IRCCS – 
Istituto di Ricerche Farmacologiche “Mario Negri” has received scientific 
consultancy fees from Perfetti Van Melle SpA Company within the last 5 y.