[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: RMF FM | Type: Instruction-QA | Level: Graduate]

Question: Provide a comprehensive expert-level explanation of RMF FM in the context of Applied Sciences.

Answer:
RMF FM (abriviation to Radio Muzyka Fakty FM, translation: Radio Music Facts FM; previously: Radio Małopolska Fun FM; translation: Radio Lesser Poland Fun FM) is the first commercial radio station in Poland, currently broadcasting in AC radio format. RMF FM started broadcasting on 15 January 1990 in Kraków. The current director is Tadeusz Sołtys. The radio is wholly owned by the German Bauer Verlagsgruppe. It is the first private radio station in Poland and is available throughout the country.

History

Origin 
The main founder of the radio was Stanislaw Tyczynski, who initiated Radio Solidarność Małopolska (Solidarity Radio Lesser Poland) in 1981. From 1984 until 1989, he lived in France. After returning to Kraków on 9 June 1989, together with a group of Solidarity activists, he established the Krakowska Fundacja Komunikacji Społecznej (KFKS, Kraków Foundation of Social Communication), aiming to "propagate free social communication, reliable and objective information, free expression of opinions and views".

The first application for the frequency and radio license was submitted as early as November 1989; however, it was rejected. Shortly afterwards, a second application was submitted for the retransmission of Fun Radio, citing similar broadcasts by TV Ostankino and Rai Uno in Kraków. This time the application was accepted, and the station was given the frequency 70.06 MHz.

1990s 
The rebroadcast was launched on 15 January 1990. The first song to appear on the air was "Africa" by the US rock band Toto. Initially, the station was housed in two apartments, but after eight months the broadcast was moved to the Kościuszko Mound. At the same time, the first Polish commercials appeared (partly made up by the journalists to give the impression of great interest on the part of advertisers) and regular news services from Kraków, and the first truckload of equipment donated by Fun Radio arrived at the station. The programme gradually expanded - from 24 September, hourly news and programmes from 5:00 to 9:00 (from 12 November to 14:00) and from 22:00 to 1:00 at night were broadcast from Kraków. The hosts of the programmes included Ewa Drzyzga, Piotr Metz, Marcin Wrona, Tadeusz Sołtys, Andrzej Sołtysik and Bogdan Rymanowski.

Since 7 January 1991, Radio Free Europe services were broadcast on RMF and on 14 January, Paweł Pawlik became the first field correspondent, broadcasting from Tarnów. On 25 February, the first foreign correspondent appeared in Paris, In April, an outpost was opened in Vienna and in June in the Warsaw Marriott Hotel - the first employee was Hieronim Wrona. On 1 July 1991, the station's transmission truck, an off-road Toyota Land Cruiser, made its first introduction. On 11 December 1991, the car took part in the first big event - the fire of the Krakow Philharmonic Hall.

In October 1991, the cooperation between RMF and KFKS ended. This was due to the fact that the French shareholders did not accept only a 33% stake in the company, as allowed by Polish law, and were interested only in full ownership. As a result, the retransmission of Fun Radio ended.

On 20 April 1992, the station broadcast The Freddie Mercury Tribute Concert featuring Metallica, Elton John, David Bowie, U2 and Guns N' Roses live. On 26 June 1992, the second studio was opened and in July 1992, the correspondent's office in Warsaw. Also on 15 July, FM was added to RMF for the first time. On 12 September, the first music charts appeared, on 2 November, the station appeared on the satellite (thanks to the agreement with the Viacom-owned MTV Europe it occupied the second audio subcarrier of this station) and in December, a second RMF FM transmitter was launched - in Katowice (on 71.75 MHz).

On 16 January 1993, a RMF FM branch in Katowice was launched (the first local branch outside Kraków). On 20 January, appeared a correspondent in Washington DC, USA. On 8 March, started production of its own programme in Częstochowa. On 1 September, the first breakfast programme, titled "Ni w 5 ni w 9" was launched, which on 30 August 1999, changed into "Wstawaj, szkoda dnia" broadcast until later years.

In February 1994, the National Broadcasting Council (KRRiT) decided to grant the station a nationwide license. On April 15, an outlet in Brussels was launched. On 26 May, the concession included the possibility of local splits. On 1 November, a local programme was launched in Łódź and on 19 December a local station was launched in Warsaw - the broadcast was "turned on" by the then director of the National Broadcasting Council using a laptop online.

In the year of 1995, local affiliates were launched in Wrocław (2 January), Poznań (6 February), Lublin (5 April), Opole, Zakopane (17-22 July respectively), Rzeszów (1 August), Trójmiasto (9 September), Szczecin (2 October) and Bydgoszcz (27 November; in September 2008, the affiliate was moved to Toruń) as well as correspondent offices in Tokyo (13 March) and Tel Aviv (1 May). In June 1995, the station became the owner of the first satellite radio news truck in Poland, which it used for the first tour of the "Inwazja mocy" series, which lasted throughout the summer. During the Inwazja concert in Tychy on 15 August 1995, a helicopter rented by the station crashed and the pilot was killed.

From 5 February 1996, the station had a correspondent in London, and from 1 March also in Moscow. At the same time, "Polityczne grafitii" appeared, broadcast simultaneously on RMF FM and Polsat. At the end of the year, the station became the most popular radio station in Poland according to listenership polls - with breaks, it still holds this position.

On 1 February 1997, the station was launched in Olsztyn. On 16 June, Hop Bęc chart was launched, which in its heyday (around 1999) was the most popular youth programme in the country. Conducted from 26 June 1997, another edition of the "Inwazja Mocy" campaign was suspended for about a month because of the flood of the millennium - the station cre