[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: cannabis cannabidiol therapeutic epilepsy pain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: cannabis cannabidiol therapeutic epilepsy pain]

49. Front Pharmacol. 2021 Nov 29;12:777804. doi: 10.3389/fphar.2021.777804. 
eCollection 2021.

Minor Cannabinoids: Biosynthesis, Molecular Pharmacology and Potential 
Therapeutic Uses.

Walsh KB(1), McKinney AE(2)(3), Holmes AE(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Physiology and Neuroscience, School of Medicine, 
University of South Carolina, Columbia, SC, United States.
(2)Institute for Human and Planetary Health, Crete, NE, United States.
(3)School of Integrative Learning, Doane University, Crete, NE, United States.
(4)Precision Plant Molecules, Denver, CO, United States.

The medicinal use of Cannabis sativa L. can be traced back thousands of years to 
ancient China and Egypt. While marijuana has recently shown promise in managing 
chronic pain and nausea, scientific investigation of cannabis has been 
restricted due its classification as a schedule 1 controlled substance. A major 
breakthrough in understanding the pharmacology of cannabis came with the 
isolation and characterization of the phytocannabinoids 
trans-Δ9-tetrahydrocannabinol (Δ9-THC) and cannabidiol (CBD). This was followed 
by the cloning of the cannabinoid CB1 and CB2 receptors in the 1990s and the 
subsequent discovery of the endocannabinoid system. In addition to the major 
phytocannabinoids, Δ9-THC and CBD, cannabis produces over 120 other cannabinoids 
that are referred to as minor and/or rare cannabinoids. These cannabinoids are 
produced in smaller amounts in the plant and are derived along with Δ9-THC and 
CBD from the parent cannabinoid cannabigerolic acid (CBGA). While our current 
knowledge of minor cannabinoid pharmacology is incomplete, studies demonstrate 
that they act as agonists and antagonists at multiple targets including CB1 and 
CB2 receptors, transient receptor potential (TRP) channels, peroxisome 
proliferator-activated receptors (PPARs), serotonin 5-HT1a receptors and others. 
The resulting activation of multiple cell signaling pathways, combined with 
their putative synergistic activity, provides a mechanistic basis for their 
therapeutic actions. Initial clinical reports suggest that these cannabinoids 
may have potential benefits in the treatment of neuropathic pain, 
neurodegenerative diseases, epilepsy, cancer and skin disorders. This review 
focuses on the molecular pharmacology of the minor cannabinoids and highlights 
some important therapeutic uses of the compounds.

Copyright © 2021 Walsh, McKinney and Holmes.

DOI: 10.3389/fphar.2021.777804
PMCID: PMC8669157
PMID: 34916950

Conflict of interest statement: AH is employed by the company Precision Plant 
Molecules. The remaining authors declare that the research was conducted in the 
absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could be construed as 
a potential conflict of interest.