[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: photodynamic therapy cancer clinical trial | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: photodynamic therapy cancer clinical trial]

94. Photodiagnosis Photodyn Ther. 2015 Sep;12(3):530-44. doi: 
10.1016/j.pdpdt.2015.04.009. Epub 2015 May 8.

Photodynamic therapy (PDT) for malignant brain tumors--where do we stand?

Quirk BJ(1), Brandal G(2), Donlon S(2), Vera JC(2), Mang TS(3), Foy AB(4), Lew 
SM(4), Girotti AW(5), Jogal S(6), LaViolette PS(7), Connelly JM(1), Whelan 
HT(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Medical College of Wisconsin, Milwaukee, WI, United 
States.
(2)Medical College of Wisconsin, Milwaukee, WI, United States.
(3)Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery, University at Buffalo, Buffalo, 
NY, United States.
(4)Department of Neurosurgery, Medical College of Wisconsin, Milwaukee, WI, 
United States.
(5)Department of Biochemistry, Medical College of Wisconsin, Milwaukee, WI, 
United States.
(6)Department of Pediatrics, Medical College of Wisconsin, Milwaukee, WI, United 
States.
(7)Department of Radiology, Medical College of Wisconsin, Milwaukee, WI, United 
States.
(8)Department of Neurology, Medical College of Wisconsin, Milwaukee, WI, United 
States. Electronic address: hwhelan@mcw.edu.

INTRODUCTION: What is the current status of photodynamic therapy (PDT) with 
regard to treating malignant brain tumors? Despite several decades of effort, 
PDT has yet to achieve standard of care.
PURPOSE: The questions we wish to answer are: where are we clinically with PDT, 
why is it not standard of care, and what is being done in clinical trials to get 
us there.
METHOD: Rather than a meta-analysis or comprehensive review, our review focuses 
on who the major research groups are, what their approaches to the problem are, 
and how their results compare to standard of care. Secondary questions include 
what the effective depth of light penetration is, and how deep can we expect to 
kill tumor cells.
CURRENT RESULTS: A measurable degree of necrosis is seen to a depth of about 
5mm. Cavitary PDT with hematoporphyrin derivative (HpD) results are encouraging, 
but need an adequate Phase III trial. Talaporfin with cavitary light application 
appears promising, although only a small case series has been reported. Foscan 
for fluorescence guided resection (FGR) plus intraoperative cavitary PDT results 
were improved over controls, but are poor compared to other groups. 
5-Aminolevulinic acid-FGR plus postop cavitary HpD PDT show improvement over 
controls, but the comparison to standard of care is still poor.
CONCLUSION: Continued research in PDT will determine whether the advances shown 
will mitigate morbidity and mortality, but certainly the potential for this 
modality to revolutionize the treatment of brain tumors remains. The various 
uses for PDT in clinical practice should be pursued.

Copyright © 2015 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pdpdt.2015.04.009
PMID: 25960361 [Indexed for MEDLINE]