[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: Vacuum permeability | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Vacuum permeability — Overview

be allocated in order to define the unit of current. In the old "electromagnetic (emu)" system of equations defined in the late 19th century, km was chosen to be a pure number, 2, distance was measured in centimetres, force was measured in the cgs unit dyne, and the currents defined by this equation were measured in the "electromagnetic unit (emu) of current" (also called the "abampere"). A practical unit to be used by electricians and engineers, the ampere, was then defined as equal to one tenth of the electromagnetic unit of current. In another system, the "rationalized metre–kilogram–second (rmks) system" (or alternatively the "metre–kilogram–second–ampere (mksa) system"), km is written as μ0/2π, where μ0 is a measurement-system constant called the "magnetic constant". The value of μ0 was chosen such that the rmks unit of current is equal in size to the ampere in the emu system: μ0 was defined to be . Historically, several different systems (including the two described above) were in use simultaneously. In particular, physicists and engineers used different systems, and physicists used three different systems for different parts of physics theory and a fourth different system (the engineers' system) for laboratory experiments. In 1948, international decisions were made by standards organizations to adopt the rmks system, and its related set of electrical quantities and units, as the single main international system for describing electromagnetic phenomena in the International System of Units. Significance in electromagnetism
The magnetic constant μ0 appears in Maxwell's equations, which describe the properties of electric and magnetic fields and electromagnetic radiation, and relate them to their sources. In particular, it appears in relationship to quantities such as permeability and magnetization density, such as the relationship that defines the magnetic H-field in terms of the magnetic B-field. In real media, this relationship has the form:

where M is the magnetization density. In vacuum, M = 0. In the International System of Quantities (ISQ), the speed of light in vacuum, , is related to the magnetic constant and the electric constant (vacuum permittivity), , by the equation:

This relation can be derived using Maxwell's equations of classical electromagnetism in the medium of classical vacuum, but this relation is used by BIPM (International Bureau of Weights and Measures) and NIST (National Institute of Standards and Technology) as a definition of ε0 in terms of the defined numerical values for  and , and is not presented as a derived result contingent upon the validity of Maxwell's equations. Conversely, as the permittivity is related to the fine structure constant (), the permeability can be derived from the latter (using the Planck constant, h, and the elementary charge, e):

In the new SI units, only the fine structure constant is a measured value in SI units in the expression on the right, since the remaining constants have defined values in SI units. See also
Characteristic impedance of vacuum
Electromagnetic wave equation
Mathematical descriptions of the electromagnetic field
New SI definitions
Sinusoidal plane-wave solutions of the electromagnetic wave equation
Vacuum permittivity

Notes

References

Fundamental constants

el:Μαγνητική σταθερά
it:Permeabilità magnetica