[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: Colóquios dos simples e drogas da India | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Colóquios dos simples e drogas da India — Overview

these authorities, as he very frequently does, because he was a long way from Europe. "If I was in Spain [the term "Spain", derived from Hispania, was in his time the geographical designation for the entirety of the Iberian Peninsula that includes Portugal] I wouldn't dare to say anything against Galen and the Greeks;" this remark has been seen as the real key to the Colóquios. The original edition of the Colóquios
Goa was by no means a major publishing centre, although the first printing press in India was introduced there in 1556; in the words of historian Charles Ralph Boxer, the original edition of the Colóquios "probably contains more typographical errors than any other book ever issued from a printing-press". The errata consisted of twenty pages and noted that it was probably incomplete. Garcia's printer is thought to have been João de Endem who began his career with Joao Quinquenio de Campania. The original publication states very carefully the extent of its official backing. The title page carries the approval of the Viceroy and of the local Inquisitor "Alexos Diaz Falcam". The book opens with several commendatory letters and prefaces. Among these preliminaries, the one that is of most interest now is a poem, the first published verses by Garcia's friend Luís de Camões, now recognised as Portugal's national poet. Many of the printing errors and authorial oversights are silently corrected in the 1872 reprint, which, although it follows the original page-for-page, is not a facsimile. Reception of the Colóquios
Garcia de Orta was the first European to catalogue Indian medicinal herbs in their native habitat. His book was rapidly acknowledged as indispensable by scientists across Europe. Translations in Latin (then the scientific lingua franca) and other languages were made. The Latin translation, a slight abridgement dropping the dialogue format, but adding woodcut illustrations and editorial commentary, was by Charles de l'Écluse (Carolus Clusius). Clusius acquired his copy of the Colóquios at Lisbon on 28 December 1564, and evidently continued to work on it all his life. In its final (fifth) edition, his translation forms a part of his great collaborative work, Exoticorum libri decem (1605). Unluckily for the fame of Garcia da Orta's book, large parts of it were included with minimal acknowledgement in a similar work published in Spanish in 1578 by Cristóbal Acosta, Tractado de las drogas y medicinas de las Indias orientales ("Treatise of the drugs and medicines of the East Indies"). Da Costa's work was widely translated into vernacular languages and eventually lessened the fame of Garcia de Orta except among the few who were aware of the latter's originality. There is an English translation of the Colóquios by Sir Clements Markham (1913) which included an introductory biography. Editions of the Colóquios
. Goa: Ioannes de Endem, 1563
. Page-for-page reprint with introduction by F. Ad. de Varnhagen. Lisboa: Imprensa Nacional, 1872
, edited with commentary by the Count of Ficalho. 2 vols. Lisboa, 1891–1895

Translations of the Colóquios
: Latin translation by Carolus Clusius. Antwerp: Plantin, 1567
. Italian translation by Annibale Briganti, based on Clusius's Latin. Venice: Francesco Ziletti, 1589
5th edition of Clusius's Latin translation, forming part of his Exoticorum libri decem. Leiden, 1605
Colloquies on the Simples and Drugs of India by Garcia da Orta. English translation by Sir Clements Markham. London, 1913

Notes

References

 Carvalho, Augusto da Silva, Garcia de Orta. Lisboa, 1934. (Reprinted: Lisboa: Casa da Moeda, 1983)

External links 
, Internet Archive
 Colloquies on the simples and drugs of India (English translation by Clements Markham 1913)
 1563 edition (Portuguese)
 1891 edition (Portuguese)
 Aromatum, et simplicium (1574) (Latin) 

Portuguese non-fiction literature
Portuguese India
Herbals
1563 books
Dialogues