[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Complex Circuit Systems | Topic: Flyback diode | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Flyback diode — Overview

switch for Figure 1. In both cases, the total time for the solenoid to discharge is a few milliseconds, though the lower voltage drop across the diode will slow relay dropout. Design When used with a DC coil relay, a flyback diode can cause delayed drop-out of the contacts when power is removed, due to the continued circulation of current in the relay coil and diode. When rapid opening of the contacts is important, a resistor or reverse-biased Zener diode can be placed in series with the diode to help dissipate the coil energy faster, at the expense of higher voltage at the switch. Schottky diodes are preferred in flyback diode applications for switching power converters because they have the lowest forward drop (~0.2 V rather than >0.7 V for low currents) and are able to quickly respond to reverse bias (when the inductor is being re-energized). They, therefore, dissipate less energy while transferring energy from the inductor to a capacitor. Induction at the opening of a contact
According to Faraday's law of induction, if the current through an inductance changes, this inductance induces a voltage, so the current will flow as long as there is energy in the magnetic field. If the current can only flow through the air, the voltage is so high that the air conducts. That is why in mechanically switched circuits, the near-instantaneous dissipation which occurs without a flyback diode is often observed as an arc across the opening mechanical contacts. Energy is dissipated in this arc primarily as intense heat, which causes undesirable premature erosion of the contacts. Another way to dissipate energy is through electromagnetic radiation. Similarly, for non-mechanical solid-state switching (i.e., a transistor), large voltage drops across an unactivated solid-state switch can destroy the component in question (either instantaneously or through accelerated wear and tear). Some energy is also lost from the system as a whole and from the arc as a broad spectrum of electromagnetic radiation, in the form of radio waves and light. These radio waves can cause undesirable clicks and pops on nearby radio receivers. To minimise the antenna-like radiation of this electromagnetic energy from wires connected to the inductor, the flyback diode should be connected as physically close to the inductor as practicable. This approach also minimises those parts of the circuit that are subject to an unwanted high-voltage — a good engineering practice. Derivation
The voltage at an inductor is, by the law of electromagnetic induction and the definition of inductance:

If there is no flyback diode but only something with great resistance (such as the air between two metal contacts), say, , we will approximate it as:

If we open the switch and ignore  and , we get:

or

which is a differential equation with the solution:

We observe that the current will decrease faster if the resistance is high, such as with air. Now if we open the switch with the diode in place, we only need to consider ,  and . For , we can assume:

so:

which is:

whose (first order differential equation) solution is:

We can calculate the time it needs to switch off by determining for which  it is . If  = , then

Applications
Flyback diodes are commonly used when semiconductor devices switch inductive loads off: in relay drivers, H-bridge motor drivers, and so on. A switched-mode power supply also exploits this effect, but the energy is not dissipated to heat and is instead used to pump a packet of additional charge into a capacitor, in order to supply power to a load. When the inductive load is a relay, the flyback diode can noticeably delay the release of the relay by keeping the coil current flowing longer. A resistor in series with the diode will make the circulating current decay faster at the drawback of an increased reverse voltage. A zener diode in series but with reverse polarity with regard to the flyback diode has the same properties, albeit with a fixed reverse voltage increase. Both the transistor voltages and the resistor or zener diode power ratings should be checked in this case. See also
 1N400x general-purpose diodes
 1N4148 signal diode
 1N58xx Schottky diodes
 Lenz's law

References

Further reading

External links
 Relay Technical Notes - American Zettler
 Relay Application Notes - TE Connectivity
 Relay RC Circuit - Evox Rifa
 Application Circuits of Miniature Signal Relays - NEC/Tokin
 Diode Turn-on/off Time and Relay Snubbing - Clifton Laboratories
 "diode for relay coil spikes and motor shutoff spikes?" - sci.electronics.design
 Flyback Switch Mode Regulator Calculator - All About Circuits

Analog circuits
Diodes