[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: biomaterial implant osseointegration titanium clin | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: biomaterial implant osseointegration titanium clinical]

80. J Mater Sci Mater Med. 2021 Dec 18;33(1):1. doi: 10.1007/s10856-021-06628-1.

Can activated titanium interbody cages accelerate or enhance spinal fusion? a 
review of the literature and a design for clinical trials.

Toop N(1), Gifford C(1), Motiei-Langroudi R(2), Farzadi A(1), Boulter D(3), 
Forghani R(4), Farhadi HF(5).

Author information:
(1)Departments of Neurological Surgery, The Ohio State University Wexner Medical 
Center, Columbus, OH, USA.
(2)Department of Neurosurgery, College of Medicine, University of Kentucky, 
Lexington, KY, USA.
(3)Department of Radiology, The Ohio State University Wexner Medical Center, 
Columbus, OH, USA.
(4)Department of Radiology, McGill University, Montreal, QC, Canada.
(5)Department of Neurosurgery, College of Medicine, University of Kentucky, 
Lexington, KY, USA. Francis.Farhadi@uky.edu.

While spinal interbody cage options have proliferated in the past decade, 
relatively little work has been done to explore the comparative potential of 
biomaterial technologies in promoting stable fusion. Innovations such as 
micro-etching and nano-architectural designs have shown purported benefits in in 
vitro studies, but lack clinical data describing their optimal implementation. 
Here, we critically assess the pre-clinical data supportive of various 
commercially available interbody cage biomaterial, topographical, and structural 
designs. We describe in detail the osteointegrative and osteoconductive benefits 
conferred by these modifications with a focus on polyetheretherketone (PEEK) and 
titanium (Ti) interbody implants. Further, we describe the rationale and design 
for two randomized controlled trials, which aim to address the paucity of 
clinical data available by comparing interbody fusion outcomes between either 
PEEK or activated Ti lumbar interbody cages. Utilizing dual-energy computed 
tomography (DECT), these studies will evaluate the relative implant-bone 
integration and fusion rates achieved by either micro-etched Ti or standard PEEK 
interbody devices. Taken together, greater understanding of the relative 
osseointegration profile at the implant-bone interface of cages with distinct 
topographies will be crucial in guiding the rational design of further studies 
and innovations.

© 2021. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s10856-021-06628-1
PMCID: PMC8684547
PMID: 34921610 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: R.F. is a consultant and speaker for GE 
Healthcare and is a founding partner and stockholder of 4Intel Inc.