[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: magnetic resonance spectroscopy metabolite brain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: magnetic resonance spectroscopy metabolite brain]

21. J Neuroradiol. 2022 Sep;49(5):370-379. doi: 10.1016/j.neurad.2021.11.006.
Epub  2021 Dec 4.

Energy metabolism measured by 31P magnetic resonance spectroscopy in the healthy 
human brain.

Rietzler A(1), Steiger R(2), Mangesius S(3), Walchhofer LM(4), Gothe RM(5), 
Schocke M(6), Gizewski ER(7), Grams AE(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neuroradiology, Medical University of Innsbruck, Innsbruck, 
Austria; Neuroimaging Core Facility, Medical University of Innsbruck, Innsbruck, 
Austria. Electronic address: andreas.rietzler@i-med.ac.at.
(2)Department of Neuroradiology, Medical University of Innsbruck, Innsbruck, 
Austria; Neuroimaging Core Facility, Medical University of Innsbruck, Innsbruck, 
Austria. Electronic address: ruth.steiger@i-med.ac.at.
(3)Department of Neuroradiology, Medical University of Innsbruck, Innsbruck, 
Austria; Neuroimaging Core Facility, Medical University of Innsbruck, Innsbruck, 
Austria. Electronic address: stephanie.mangesius@i-med.ac.at.
(4)Department of Radiology, Medical University of Innsbruck, Innsbruck, Austria. 
Electronic address: lisa.walchhofer@kh-schwaz.at.
(5)UMIT - Center of Statistical Consulting and Continuing Education, Private 
University for Health Sciences, Medical Informatics and Technology, Hall, 
Austria. Electronic address: raffaella.gothe@umit.at.
(6)RKU - University and Rehabilitation Clinics Ulm, Ulm, Germany. Electronic 
address: michael.schocke@gmail.com.
(7)Department of Neuroradiology, Medical University of Innsbruck, Innsbruck, 
Austria; Neuroimaging Core Facility, Medical University of Innsbruck, Innsbruck, 
Austria. Electronic address: elke.gizewski@i-med.ac.at.
(8)Department of Neuroradiology, Medical University of Innsbruck, Innsbruck, 
Austria; Neuroimaging Core Facility, Medical University of Innsbruck, Innsbruck, 
Austria. Electronic address: astrid.grams@i-med.ac.at.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Phosphorous magnetic resonance spectroscopy (31P-MRS) 
allows a non-invasive analysis of phosphorus-containing compounds in vivo. The 
present study investigated the influence of brain region, hemisphere, age, sex 
and brain volume on 31P-MRS metabolites in healthy adults.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Supratentorial brain 31P-MRS spectra of 125 prospectively 
recruited healthy volunteers (64 female, 61 male) aged 20 to 85 years (mean: 
49.4 ± 16.9 years) were examined with a 3D-31P-MRS sequence at 3T, and the 
compounds phosphocreatine (PCr), inorganic phosphate (Pi) and adenosine 
triphosphate (ATP) were measured. From this data, the metabolite ratios PCr/ATP, 
Pi/ATP and PCr/Pi were calculated for different brain regions. In addition, 
volumes of gray matter, white matter and cerebrospinal fluid were determined.
RESULTS: For all metabolite ratios significant regional differences and in 
several regions sex differences were found. In some brain regions and for some 
metabolites hemispheric differences were detected. In addition, changes with 
aging were found, which differed between women and men.
CONCLUSIONS: The present results indicate that 31P-MRS metabolism varies 
throughout the brain, with age and between sexes, and therefore have important 
practical implications for the design and the interpretation of future 31P-MRS 
studies under physiological conditions and in patients with various cerebral 
diseases.

Copyright © 2021 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neurad.2021.11.006
PMID: 34871672 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest The authors declare that 
the research was conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial 
relationships that could be construed as a potential conflict of interest.