[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: low-level laser therapy wound healing pain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: low-level laser therapy wound healing pain]

99. Clin Oral Investig. 2020 Jan;24(1):37-45. doi: 10.1007/s00784-019-03144-z.
Epub  2019 Nov 12.

Laser therapy for recurrent aphthous stomatitis: an overview.

Amorim Dos Santos J(1), Normando AGC(1), de Toledo IP(1)(2), Melo G(2), De Luca 
Canto G(2), Santos-Silva AR(3), Guerra ENS(4).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Oral Histopathology, Health Sciences Faculty, University of 
Brasilia, Asa Norte, Brasilia, DF, 70910-900, Brazil.
(2)Brazilian Centre for Evidence-Based Research, Department of Dentistry, 
Federal University of Santa Catarina, Florianópolis, Brazil.
(3)Oral Diagnosis, Piracicaba Dental School, University of Campinas (UNICAMP), 
São Paulo, Brazil.
(4)Laboratory of Oral Histopathology, Health Sciences Faculty, University of 
Brasilia, Asa Norte, Brasilia, DF, 70910-900, Brazil. elieteneves.unb@gmail.com.

OBJECTIVES: To evaluate therapeutic effects of laser therapy on patients with 
recurrent aphthous stomatitis assessing evidences from previously published 
systematic reviews.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: An overview of systematic reviews was conducted based on 
PRISMA checklist. Search strategies were developed and adapted for six different 
electronic databases and a gray literature search was also performed. The 
methodology quality of the included systematic reviews was assessed by the 
Measurement Tool to Assess the Methodological Quality of Systematic Reviews 2 
(AMSTAR 2).
RESULTS: After a two-step selection, five systematic reviews were included. 
Methodology quality was considered as a high risk of bias in two systematic 
reviews, while in the other three were graded as moderate. The systematic 
reviews' conclusions demonstrated that all included systematics reviews showed 
positive effects of laser therapy for pain relief, and most of them demonstrated 
healing improvement. A meta-analysis was not feasible due to heterogeneity in 
treatments parameters.
CONCLUSIONS: Evidence suggested that laser therapy is an effective tool to treat 
recurrent aphthous stomatitis; nevertheless, more randomized clinical trials 
should be conducted to compare different lasers parameters.
CLINICAL RELEVANCE: The present overview evaluated recent evidence about laser 
therapy for recurrent aphthous stomatitis management in order to contribute for 
evidence-based dentistry and decision-making. This overview suggests that laser 
therapy is a safe and promising alternative to treat recurrent aphthous 
stomatitis, since it promotes wound healing and pain relief.

DOI: 10.1007/s00784-019-03144-z
PMID: 31720851 [Indexed for MEDLINE]