[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: traditional Chinese medicine herbs mechanism actio | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: traditional Chinese medicine herbs mechanism action]

93. Sci China Life Sci. 2013 Nov;56(11):1000-6. doi: 10.1007/s11427-013-4551-8.
Epub  2013 Oct 10.

Platelet proteomics and its advanced application for research of blood stasis 
syndrome and activated blood circulation herbs of Chinese medicine.

Liu Y(1), Yin H, Chen K.

Author information:
(1)Cardiovascular Diseases Centre, Xiyuan Hospital of China Academy of Chinese 
Medical Sciences, Beijing, 100091, China.

The development of novel and efficient antiplatelet agents that have few adverse 
effects and methods that improve antiplatelet resistance has long been the focus 
of international research on the prevention and treatment of cardiovascular and 
cerebrovascular diseases. Recent advances in platelet proteomics have provided a 
technology platform for high-quality research of platelet pathophysiology and 
the development of new antiplatelet drugs. The study of blood stasis syndrome 
(BSS) and activated blood circulation of traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) is 
one of the most active fields where the integration of TCM and western medicine 
in China has been successful. Activated blood circulation herbs (ABC herbs) of 
Chinese medicine are often used in the treatment of BSS. Most ABC herbs have 
antiplatelet and anti-atherosclerosis activity, but knowledge about their 
targets is lacking. Coronary heart disease (CHD), BSS, and platelet activation 
are closely related. By screening and identifying activated platelet proteins 
that are differentially expressed in BSS of CHD, platelet proteomics has helped 
researchers interpret the antiplatelet mechanism of action of ABC herbs and 
provided many potential biomarkers for BSS that could be used to evaluate the 
clinical curative effect of new antiplatelet drugs. In this article the progress 
of platelet proteomics and its advanced application for research of BSS and ABC 
herbs of Chinese medicine are reviewed.

DOI: 10.1007/s11427-013-4551-8
PMID: 24114444 [Indexed for MEDLINE]