[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS neurology | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS neurology]

91. Can J Neurol Sci. 2022 Mar;49(2):218-224. doi: 10.1017/cjn.2021.62. Epub 2021
 Apr 12.

Discriminative Utility of Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation-Derived Markers of 
Cortical Excitability for Transient Ischemic Attack.

Edwards JD(1)(2), Ferris JK(3), Gao F(4)(5), Honjo K(4)(5), Boyd LA(3).

Author information:
(1)University of Ottawa Heart Institute.
(2)School of Epidemiology and Public Health, University of Ottawa.
(3)Brain Behaviour Laboratory, Department of Physical Therapy, University of 
British Columbia, Vancouver, Canada.
(4)LC Campbell Cognitive Neurology Research Unit, Sunnybrook Health Sciences 
Centre, Toronto, Canada.
(5)Hurvitz Brain Sciences Program, Sunnybrook Research Institute, University of 
Toronto, Canada.

BACKGROUND: Several guidelines currently recommend acute diffusion weighted 
imaging (DWI) for the detection of ischemia in transient ischemic attack (TIA). 
However, DWI hyperintensities resolve early and only 30%-50% with clinically 
defined TIA show acute DWI positivity. A recent meta-analysis reported an 
unexplained 7-fold variation in DWI positivity in TIA across studies, concluding 
that DWI does not provide a consistent basis for defining ischemia. 
Intracortical excitability, measured using transcranial magnetic stimulation 
(TMS), has previously been shown to be altered after TIA and associated with 
ABCD2 scores; however, whether altered cortical excitability is associated with 
clinical and DWI-based definitions of TIA remains unclear.
METHODS: Individuals with TIA symptoms (N = 23; mean age = 61 ± 12) were 
prospectively recruited and underwent DWI and paired-pulse TMS. Multivariate 
linear regression was used to estimate associations between TMS-derived 
excitability thresholds, and clinical TIA diagnosis, and imaging-based evidence 
of cerebral ischemia (DWI positivity). Area under the curve (AUC) analyses was 
used to compare the discriminability of TMS-derived thresholds and clinical TIA 
diagnoses.
RESULTS: Thresholds for intracortical inhibition in the TIA-unaffected 
hemisphere were significantly associated with the clinical diagnosis of TIA. No 
associations between TMS-derived thresholds and DWI positivity were observed. 
TMS thresholds showed low-moderate discriminability and values differed by age 
(65+) and sex.
CONCLUSIONS: In this small sample, TMS-derived markers of intracortical 
excitability were associated with clinical TIA diagnoses but not DWI positivity. 
Our results provide preliminary evidence for the potential discriminative 
utility of TMS for the diagnosis of TIA and highlight the need for future work 
in larger cohorts.

DOI: 10.1017/cjn.2021.62
PMID: 33843526 [Indexed for MEDLINE]