[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: phytotherapy systematic review clinical evidence | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: phytotherapy systematic review clinical evidence]

14. Am J Chin Med. 2025;53(1):1-15. doi: 10.1142/S0192415X25500016. Epub 2025 Feb
 21.

Traditional Chinese Medicine for Alzheimer's Disease: A Systematic Review and 
Meta-Analysis.

Chen Y(1), Zhang D(2), Chen T(3), Zhao L(4), Wen L(5), Hou R(6).

Author information:
(1)School of Clinical Medicine, Addenbrooke's Hospital, University of Cambridge, 
Cambridge, UK.
(2)Shandong Mental Health Center, Shandong University, Jinan, Shandong, P. R. 
China.
(3)Department of Neurosurgery, Qilu Hospital of Shandong University, Jinan, 
Shandong, P. R. China.
(4)Department of Pharmacology, Qilu Hospital of Shandong University, Jinan, 
Shandong, P. R. China.
(5)Xiamen Key Laboratory for Traditional Chinese Medicine, Neurology & 
Immunology Research, Fujian Provincial Key Laboratory of Neurodegenerative 
Disease and Aging Research, School of Medicine, Xiamen University, Xiamen, P. R. 
China.
(6)Department of Psychiatry, Clinical and Experimental Sciences, Faculty of 
Medicine, University of Southampton, Southampton, UK.

The treatment of Alzheimer's Disease (AD) remains a challenge for modern 
medicine due to its complex pathogenesis. Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM) has 
demonstrated significant success in the prevention and treatment of variable 
medical conditions. For AD pharmacological management, TCM could provide 
promising approaches. This study aimed to systematically evaluate the current 
evidence of the effects of TCM therapies on AD. A systematic search of the 
literature was performed on electronic databases including PubMed, the Cochrane 
Library, the Chinese National Knowledge Infrastructure (CNKI), and Web of 
Science. Thirteen studies were included in this review, subject to inclusion and 
exclusion criteria. Screening, data extraction, and quality assessment were 
undertaken following the guidelines for Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic 
Reviews and Meta-Analyses. Our results show that TCM offered a significant 
improvement in cognitive functioning compared to the control group, measured on 
both MMSE and ADAS-CoG scales, suggesting its potential utility in slowing 
cognitive decline and improving cognitive function as compared to conventional 
drug treatments and placebos. No significant difference was found for scores of 
neuropsychiatric symptoms (NPI) or ability to perform daily living activities 
(ADCS-ADL). These findings highlight TCM as a potential adjuvant therapy, in 
combination with conventional medicine, to improve the effectiveness and reduce 
the limitations of conventional AD drug regimes. Studies with larger sample 
sizes, rigorous study designs, accurate long-term reporting, and correlation to 
neuropathological markers are needed in the future to enhance the evidence base 
for the use of TCM in AD patients, and to further confirm its efficacy.

DOI: 10.1142/S0192415X25500016
PMID: 40000385 [Indexed for MEDLINE]