[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: pharmacognosy medicinal plant active compound isol | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: pharmacognosy medicinal plant active compound isolation]

92. J Ethnopharmacol. 2024 Mar 1;321:117475. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2023.117475. Epub
 2023 Nov 24.

A review of preclinical evidence of Cryptolepis nigrescens (Wennberg) L. 
Joubert. and Bruyns., Prosopsis africana (Guill. and Perr.) Taub. and Pterygota 
macrocarpa K. Schum. traditionally used to manage tumours in Ghana.

Afolayan OD(1), Firempong CK(2), Komlaga G(3), Addo-Fordjour P(4), Addy BS(1), 
Emikpe BO(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Biotechnology, Kwame Nkrumah University of 
Science and Technology, Kumasi, Ghana.
(2)Department of Biochemistry and Biotechnology, Kwame Nkrumah University of 
Science and Technology, Kumasi, Ghana. Electronic address: 
ckfirempong.cos@knust.edu.gh.
(3)Department of Pharmacognosy, Kwame Nkrumah University of Science and 
Technology, Kumasi, Ghana.
(4)Department of Theoretical and Applied Biology, Kwame Nkrumah University of 
Science and Technology, Kumasi, Ghana.
(5)Department of Pathobiology, Kwame Nkrumah University of Science and 
Technology, Kumasi, Ghana.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Cancer stands as one of the leading causes of 
death worldwide according to the World Health Organization (WHO), and it has led 
to approximately 10 million fatalities in 2020. Medicinal plants are still 
widely used and accepted form of treatment for most diseases including cancer in 
Ghana. This review presented Cryptolepis nigrescens (Wennberg) L. Joubert. and 
Bruyns., Prosopsis africana (Guill. and Perr.) Taub. and Pterygota macrocarpa K. 
Schum. as medicinal plants that are traditionally used to treat tumour growth, 
amongst other diseases, in the Ashanti region of Ghana.
AIM OF REVIEW: This paper aims to present a comprehensive review on the 
botanical description, ecological distribution, ethnomedicinal uses, 
phytochemical composition and ethnopharmacological relevance of C. nigrescens, 
P. africana and P. macrocarpa.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The review covers works published between 1962 and 2023 
from various countries. Published books, thesis, scientific and medical articles 
on C. nigrescens, P. africana and P. macrocarpa were collected from the 
following databases: 'Scopus', 'Science Direct', 'Medline', 'PubMed', 'Research 
Gate' 'Google Scholar, and 'Springer link' using the keywords.
RESULTS: Phytochemical analysis of C. nigrescens, P. africana and P. macrocarpa 
revealed the presence of some prominent bioactive compounds such as 
convallatoxin, 7,3,4-trihydroxy-3-methoxyflavanone and dioxane, respectively. 
Plant extracts and isolated compounds of these medicinal plants exhibited a wide 
range of ethnopharmacological activities including antimicrobial, 
anti-inflammatory, antioxidant, analgesic, cytotoxic, antimalarial, antipyretic, 
haematinic, hepato-protective, aphrodisiac and antihypertensive properties.
CONCLUSION: The present review on C. nigrescens , P.africana and P. macrocarpa 
provided a credible summary of the ethnopharmacological research conducted on 
these medicinal plants till date. The data also highligted the potential 
therapeutic profiles of these plants in Ghana that could serve as foundation for 
future studies. Additionally, the information significantly supported the 
traditional and commercial use of these plants among the people.

Copyright © 2023 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2023.117475
PMID: 38008275 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.