[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: The Herbalist — Meyer | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# The Herbalist — Meyer — Overview

use, for they keep them very drunk on purpose. Smart fellow Fizkin's agent--very smart fellow indeed." Mr. Pickwick stared, but said nothing. "We are pretty confident, though," said Mr. Perker, sinking his voice almost to a whisper. "We had a little tea-party here last night--five- and-forty women, my dear sir--and gave every one of 'em a green parasol when she went away." "A parasol?" said Mr. Pickwick. "Fact, my dear sir, fact. Five-and-forty green parasols at seven and
   sixpence a-piece. All women like finery--extraordinary the effect of
   those parasols. Secured all their husbands, and half their
   brothers--beat stockings, and flannel, and all that sort of thing
   hollow. My idea, my dear sir, entirely. Hail, rain, or sunshine, you
   can't walk half-a-dozen yards up the street without encountering half-
   a-dozen green parasols."

   On the day of the election the stable yard exhibited unequivocal
   symptoms of the glory and strength of the Eatanswill Blues. There was
   a regular army of blue flags, some with one handle, and some with two,
   exhibiting appropriate devices, in golden characters four feet high,
   and stout in proportion. There was a grand band of trumpets,
   bassoons, and drums, marshalled four abreast, and earning their money,
   if ever men did, especially the drum beaters, who were very muscular. There were bodies of constables with blue staves, twenty committee men
   with blue scarves, and a mob of voters with blue cockades. There were
   electors on horseback and electors on foot. There was an open
   carriage and four, for the Honourable Samuel Slumkey; and there were
   four carriages and pair, for his friends and supporters; and the flags
   were rustling, and the band was playing, and the constables were
   swearing, and the twenty committee men were squabbling, and the mob
   were shouting, and the horses were backing, and the post-boys were
   perspiring; and everybody, and everything, then and there assembled,
   was for the special use, behoof, honour, and renown, of the Honourable
   Samuel Slumkey, of Slumkey Hall, one of the candidates for the
   representation of the Borough of Eatanswill, in the Commons House of
   Parliament of the United Kingdom. Loud and long were the cheers, and mighty was the rustling of one of
   the blue flags, with "Liberty of the Press" inscribed thereon, when
   the sandy head of Mr. Pott was discerned in one of the windows by the
   mob beneath; and tremendous was the enthusiasm when the Honourable
   Samuel Slumkey himself, in top boots, and a blue neckerchief, advanced
   and seized the hand of the said Pott, and melodramatically testified
   by gestures to the crowd his ineffaceable obligations to the
   _Eatanswill Gazette_. "Is everything ready?" said the Honourable Samuel Slumkey to Mr. Perker. "Everything, my dear sir," was the little man's reply. "Nothing has been omitted, I hope?" said the Honourable Samuel
   Slumkey. "Nothing has been left undone, my dear sir--nothing whatever. There
   are twenty washed men at the street door for you to shake hands with;
   and six children in arms that you're to pat on the head, and inquire
   the age of; be particular about the children, my dear sir,--it has
   always a great effect, that sort of thing."

   "I'll take care," said the Honourable Samuel Slumkey. "And perhaps, my dear sir," said the cautious little man, "perhaps if
   you _could_--I don't mean to say it's indispensable--but if you
   _could_ manage to kiss one of 'em it would produce a very great
   impression on the crowd."

   "Wouldn't it have as good an effect if the proposer or seconder did
   that?" said the Honourable Samuel Slumkey. "Why, I am afraid it wouldn't," replied the agent; "if it were done by
   yourself, my dear sir, I think it would make you very popular."

   "Very well," said the Honourable Samuel Slumkey, with a resigned air,
   "then it must be done. That's all."

   "Arrange the procession," cried the twenty committee men. Amidst the cheers of the assembled throng, the band, and the
   constables, and the committee men, and the voters, and the horsemen,
   and the carriages took their places--each of the two-horse vehicles
   being closely packed with as many gentlemen as could manage to stand
   upright in it; and that assigned to Mr. Perker containing Mr. Pickwick, Mr. Tupman, Mr. Snodgrass, and about half-a-dozen of the
   committee beside. There was a moment of awful suspense as the procession waited for the
   Honourable Samuel Slumkey to step into his carriage. Suddenly the
   crowd set up a great cheering. "He has come out," said little Mr. Perker, greatly excited; the more
   so as their position did not enable them to see what was going
   forward. Another cheer, much louder. "He has shaken hands with the men," cried the little agent. Another cheer, far more vehement. "He has patted the babies on the head," said Mr. Perker, trembling
   with anxiety.