[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: cannabis cannabidiol therapeutic epilepsy pain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: cannabis cannabidiol therapeutic epilepsy pain]

16. Pharmacol Res. 2020 Jul;157:104822. doi: 10.1016/j.phrs.2020.104822. Epub
2020  Apr 23.

Cannabis sativa: Much more beyond Δ(9)-tetrahydrocannabinol.

Alves P(1), Amaral C(1), Teixeira N(1), Correia-da-Silva G(2).

Author information:
(1)UCIBIO.REQUIMTE, Laboratory of Biochemistry, Department of Biological 
Sciences, Faculty of Pharmacy of University of Porto, Portugal.
(2)UCIBIO.REQUIMTE, Laboratory of Biochemistry, Department of Biological 
Sciences, Faculty of Pharmacy of University of Porto, Portugal. Electronic 
address: george@ff.up.pt.

Cannabis is the most used illicit drug worldwide and its medicinal use is under 
discussion, being regulated in several countries. However, the psychotropic 
effects of Δ9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), the main psychoactive compound of 
Cannabis sativa, are of concern. Thus, the interest in the isolated constituents 
without psychotropic activity, such as cannabidiol (CBD) and cannabidivarin 
(CBDV) is growing. CBD and CBDV are lipophilic molecules with poor oral 
bioavailability and are mainly metabolized by cytochrome P450 (CYP450) enzymes. 
The pharmacodynamics of CBD is the best explored, being able to interact with 
diverse molecular targets, like cannabinoid receptors, G protein-coupled 
receptor-55, transient receptor potential vanilloid 1 channel and peroxisome 
proliferator-activated receptor-γ. Considering the therapeutic potential, 
several clinical trials are underway to study the efficacy of CBD and CBDV in 
different pathologies, such as neurodegenerative diseases, epilepsy, autism 
spectrum disorders and pain conditions. The anti-cancer properties of CBD have 
also been demonstrated by several pre-clinical studies in different types of 
tumour cells. Although less studied, CBDV, a structural analogue of CBD, is 
receiving attention in the last years. CBDV exhibits anticonvulsant properties 
and, currently, clinical trials are underway for the treatment of autism 
spectrum disorders. Despite the benefits of these phytocannabinoids, it is 
important to highlight their potential interference with relevant physiologic 
mechanisms. In fact, CBD interactions with CYP450 enzymes and with drug efflux 
transporters may have serious consequences when co-administered with other 
drugs. This review summarizes the therapeutic advances of CBD and CBDV and 
explores some aspects of their pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics and possible 
interactions. Moreover, it also highlights the therapeutic potential of CBD and 
CBDV in several medical conditions and clinical applications.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.phrs.2020.104822
PMID: 32335286 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest None.