[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: optical coherence tomography retinal diagnosis | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: optical coherence tomography retinal diagnosis]

20. Retin Cases Brief Rep. 2017 Winter;11 Suppl 1:S68-S72. doi: 
10.1097/ICB.0000000000000418.

OPTICAL COHERENCE TOMOGRAPHY ANGIOGRAPHY OF A29 BIRDSHOT CHORIORETINOPATHY 
COMPLICATED BY RETINAL NEOVASCULARIZATION.

Phasukkijwatana N(1), Iafe N, Sarraf D.

Author information:
(1)*Stein Eye Institute, David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA, Los Angeles, 
California; †Department of Ophthalmology, Faculty of Medicine Siriraj Hospital, 
Mahidol University, Bangkok, Thailand; and ‡Greater Los Angeles VA Healthcare 
Center, Los Angeles, California.

PURPOSE: To describe the quantitative optical coherence tomography angiography 
analysis of the superficial and deep retinal capillary plexus in a case of A29 
birdshot chorioretinopathy (BCR) complicated by retinal neovascularization.
METHODS: Multimodal retinal imaging, including optical coherence tomography 
angiography with quantitated vessel density analysis of the superficial and deep 
retinal capillary plexus, was performed in a case of A29 BCR. Capillary density 
(mm) was defined as the total vessel length (mm) per area (mm).
RESULTS: A 39-year-old healthy white man presented with vitreous hemorrhage and 
retinal neovascularization at baseline. Clinical presentation was consistent 
with BCR and human leukocyte antigen testing confirmed A29 positivity. Optical 
coherence tomography angiography was performed 6 years after the diagnosis and 
revealed capillary density reduction in the superficial and especially in the 
deep retinal capillary plexus. Quantitative vessel density analysis was compared 
with the mean capillary density of 11 age-matched normal eyes and demonstrated 
6% and 18% reduction of the superficial plexus in the right and left eyes of our 
patient, respectively. For the deep plexus, a reduction of 25% and 32% was found 
in the right and left eyes, respectively.
CONCLUSION: In this patient with BCR, capillary density reduction was most 
marked at the deep retinal capillary plexus level and may explain the 
development of retinal neovascularization in this case. Quantitative optical 
coherence tomography angiography may be a useful tool to study and to monitor 
retinal microvascular changes in patients with BCR and should be further 
explored as a biomarker of therapeutic response.

DOI: 10.1097/ICB.0000000000000418
PMID: 27632586 [Indexed for MEDLINE]