[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: Expanded Cinema | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Expanded Cinema — Overview

points to the links between computer art and Conceptualism, and the growing theoretical basis of art. In his cybernetic art exploration of Cybernetic Cinema he gives an account of early experiments using computers to draw and make films. He bemoans the fact that at the time of writing no computer has the power to generate real-time images and that computer art has to be made off-line. He does, though, foresee a future in which location shooting will become obsolete as all locations will be able to be simulated with computers (pp. 194–206). Examples of filmmakers using computers, referred to by Youngblood, include: John Whitney, James Whitney, John Whitney, Jr., Michael Whitney, John Stehura, Stan VanDerBeek and Peter Kamnitzer (pp. 207–256). "Part Five: Television as a Creative Medium" 
Youngblood describes the videosphere, in which computers and televisions are extensions to man's central nervous system. He is optimistic about technological advances and predicts TV-on-demand by 1978 (pp. 260–264). He does acknowledge, however, that data retrieval is more complicated than data recording. The various processes involved in video synthesizing are described: de-beaming, keying, chroma-keying, feedback, mixing, switching and editing (pp. 265–280). The work of Loren Sears is neuroesthetic because it treats television as an extension of the central nervous system (pp. 291–295). The curator James Newman moved from a traditional gallery to a conceptual gallery with his joint project with KQED-TV, commissioning television work from Terry Riley, Yvonne Rainer, Frank Zappa, Andy Warhol, The Living Theater, Robert Frank and Walter De Maria (pp. 292–293). Nam June Paik has worked creatively with television (pp. 302–308). Les Levine exploits the potential of closed-circuit television (pp. 337–344). "Part Six: Intermedia" 
Youngblood sees the artist as an ecologist, involved with the environment rather than with objects (pp. 346–351). By way of example he cites the video displays at world expositions (specifically Roman Kroitor's large-scale projections at Expo 67 and Expo '70 (pp. 352–358), and the Cerebrum, an art/nightclub environment. Artists such as Carolee Schneemann and Robert Whitman combine film projection with live performance (pp. 366–371). Wolf Vostell incorporates video experiments into environmental contexts (p. 383). Light shows are used in concerts and multiple projectors and video screens create complex environments. "Part Seven: Holographic Cinema: A New World" 
Finally, Youngblood explores the creative potential of holography. Key ideas
 Future shock
 Intermedia
 Neuroesthetics
 Noosphere
 Synaesthesia

References

External links
  
 YOUNGBLOOD, GENE. "Expanded Cinema: Fiftieth Anniversary Edition." S.l.: FORDHAM UNIVERSITY PRESS, 2020. Youngblood, Gene, Pier L. Capucci, and Simonetta Fadda. "Expanded Cinema." Bologna: CLUEB, 2013. Youngblood, Gene. Cine Expandido, Buenos Aires: EDUNTREF, 2012, ©1970. American art
Books about film
Books about the media