[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: traditional Chinese medicine herbs mechanism actio | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: traditional Chinese medicine herbs mechanism action]

15. Front Pharmacol. 2024 Jul 17;15:1412997. doi: 10.3389/fphar.2024.1412997. 
eCollection 2024.

Application of network pharmacology in traditional Chinese medicine for the 
treatment of digestive system diseases.

Zheng S(#)(1)(2), Liang Y(#)(3), Xue T(#)(4), Wang W(#)(1)(2), Li S(1)(2), Zhang 
P(5), Li X(1)(2), Cao X(1)(2), Liu Q(1)(2)(6), Qi W(1)(2), Ye Y(1)(2), Zao 
X(1)(2)(6).

Author information:
(1)Dongzhimen Hospital, Beijing University of Chinese Medicine, Beijing, China.
(2)Liver Diseases Academy of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Beijing University of 
Chinese Medicine, Beijing, China.
(3)Xiyuan Hospital of China Academy of Chinese Medical Sciences, Beijing, China.
(4)First Affiliated Hospital of Hebei University of Chinese Medicine, 
Shijiazhuang, China.
(5)Dongfang Hospital, Beijing University of Chinese Medicine, Beijing, China.
(6)Key Laboratory of Chinese Internal Medicine of Ministry of Education and 
Beijing, Dongzhimen Hospital, Beijing University of Chinese Medicine, Beijing, 
China.
(#)Contributed equally

With the general improvement in living standards in recent years, people's 
living habits, including their dietary habits, have changed. More people around 
the world do not follow a healthy diet, leading to an increase in morbidity and 
even mortality due to digestive system diseases, which shows an increasing trend 
every year. The advantage of traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) in treating 
digestive system diseases is evident. Consequently, the mechanisms of action of 
single Chinese herbs and compound Chinese medicines have become the focus of 
research. The research method of the network pharmacology system was highly 
consistent with the holistic concept of TCM, and provided a new perspective and 
theoretical basis for basic research on digestive system diseases. This article 
summarizes the common databases currently used in research on TCM. It also 
briefly introduces the basic methods and technologies of network pharmacology 
studies. It also summarizes the advancements of network pharmacology technology 
through a comprehensive literature search on PubMed. Based on this analysis, we 
further explored the role of TCM in treating digestive system diseases, 
including chronic gastritis, gastric cancer, ulcerative colitis, and liver 
cirrhosis. This study provides new ideas and references for treating digestive 
system diseases with TCM in the future and serves as a reference for relevant 
researchers.

Copyright © 2024 Zheng, Liang, Xue, Wang, Li, Zhang, Li, Cao, Liu, Qi, Ye and 
Zao.

DOI: 10.3389/fphar.2024.1412997
PMCID: PMC11289720
PMID: 39086391

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.