[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: traditional Chinese medicine herbs mechanism actio | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: traditional Chinese medicine herbs mechanism action]

74. Zhong Xi Yi Jie He Xue Bao. 2003 Jul;1(2):138-41. doi: 10.3736/jcim20030216.

[Studies on treatment of fatty liver with traditional Chinese medicine].

[Article in Chinese]

Xu LM(1), Hu YY.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Liver Diseases, Shanghai University of Traditional Chinese 
Medicine, Shanghai 200032, China.

Great progress has been made in the study of fatty liver with integrated 
traditional Chinese and western medicine in aspects of diagnosis, treatment and 
experimental study, etc. Most researches were designed to utilize diagnostic or 
model replicating method of western medicine to observe the effects or 
investigate the action mechanism of compound recipe, single Chinese herb or 
effective ingredients of Chinese herbs on fatty liver. According to the 
pathological mechanism of traditional Chinese medicine (TCM), fatty liver is 
characterized by deficiency in nature and repletion in appearance, which 
involves three Zang viscera such as liver, spleen and kidney and manifests as 
spleen Qi deficiency, liver and kidney deficiency, phlegm and dampness heaping 
internally, and Qi stagnation and blood stasis. This facilitates us to use 
specific recipe or modified recipe to treat fatty liver from the points of 
integrated traditional Chinese and western medicine and combining syndrome 
differentiation with disease differentiation. With gratifying achievement, this 
kind of approach has been the mainstream of the research on fatty liver and many 
researchers have reached an agreement on this point domestically. Spleen 
Fortifying and Blood Invigorating Recipe (SFBVER in brief, invented by our 
institute) can significantly improve the B ultrasound outcome of the liver in 
patients with fatty liver, with significant difference in B ultrasound scoring 
between pre-and post-treatment. It can alleviate the patients' symptoms, improve 
or regain liver function, decrease waist/buttocks ratio and the content of 
triglyceride and cholesterol in blood. SFBVER is superior to Dongbao Gantai 
Recipe in general effective rate. Experimental study also reveals that SFBVER 
can alleviate CCl(4) induced liver cell fatty degeneration and the inflammatory 
cell infiltration in rats, decrease the activities of ALT and AST, lower the 
content of triglyceride in liver, recover SOD activity in liver to normal level. 
The overall efficacy of SFBVER is superior to that of Dongbao Gantai Recipe. 
Further correlated study should be focused on inventing new preparation of 
traditional Chinese medicine and investigating its action mechanism with the 
guiding of the theory of TCM and referring to the latest discovery in fatty 
liver research in modern medicine.

DOI: 10.3736/jcim20030216
PMID: 15339589 [Indexed for MEDLINE]