[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: optical coherence tomography retinal diagnosis | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: optical coherence tomography retinal diagnosis]

90. Turk J Ophthalmol. 2024 Feb 22;54(1):23-31. doi:
10.4274/tjo.galenos.2023.58485.

Evaluation of Full-Field Stimulus Threshold Test Results in Retinitis 
Pigmentosa: Relationship with Full-Field Electroretinography, Multifocal 
Electroretinography, Optical Coherence Tomography, and Visual Field.

Öner A(1), Kahraman NS(2).

Author information:
(1)Acıbadem Health Group, Taksim Hospital, Clinic of Ophthalmology, İstanbul, 
Türkiye.
(2)Acıbadem University, Vocational School of Health Services, Division of 
Opticianry, İstanbul, Türkiye.

OBJECTIVES: The full-field stimulus threshold (FST) test was developed to 
evaluate the efficacy and safety of treatments of hereditary retinal diseases. 
In this study we performed the FST test in patients with retinitis pigmentosa 
(RP) and compared the results with findings from other ophthalmological tests.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The study included 51 intermediate and advanced RP 
patients and 21 normal subjects. All patients and controls underwent routine 
examination and ophthalmological tests including visual field, optical coherence 
tomography, full-field and multifocal electroretinography (mfERG), and FST 
tests. During FST testing, the perception thresholds of retina to the white, 
blue, and red FST were determined in decibels.
RESULTS: The mean age of the patients and the controls were 35.2 and 33.5 years, 
respectively. For all RP patients, no response was obtained on full-field ERG. 
All subjects were able to perform reliable FST tests. The mean values of visual 
acuity and central macular thickness were significantly lower and visual field 
mean deviation values were significantly higher in the RP group than the 
controls. When we evaluated the mfERG findings, the mean P1 wave amplitudes in 
all rings were significantly lower and the mean peak times were significantly 
longer in RP patients than controls. In comparisons of FST test results, the 
mean values for white, blue, red and the difference between blue-red thresholds 
were significantly lower in the RP group than the control group.
CONCLUSION: The FST test is a fast and a reliable exam which can be done in 
subjects with poor visual acuity and reduced visual field. The results of this 
study confirm that the FST test can measure retinal sensitivity in severely 
affected RP subjects with flat flash ERG.

©Copyright 2024 by the Turkish Ophthalmological Association / Turkish Journal of 
Ophthalmology published by Galenos Publishing House.

DOI: 10.4274/tjo.galenos.2023.58485
PMCID: PMC10895166
PMID: 38385317 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: No conflict of interest 
was declared by the authors.