[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: Strangers No Longer | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Strangers No Longer — Overview

policy must be humane, and employ tactics in accord with the migrant's human dignity (§78-91). This humane enforcement means granting due process rights (§92-94) Reception of the pastoral letter In Strangers No Longer, the bishops challenge the Church to be—in the words of Lumen gentium—"sign and instrument both of a very closely knit union with God and of the unity of the whole human race" (§103). They challenge the presidents and other government officials to work for a more just migration policy (§104). Finally, they challenge themselves to defend migrants, stand in solidarity with them, and help to create a just environment for them to thrive (§105-106). What impact this pastoral letter has had in challenging these three groups is open to debate. One concrete result of the pastoral letter is the creation of the Justice for Immigrants campaign in the United States to lobby for a more just immigration policy. Folk song based upon the pastoral letter 

In 2005, American folk singer Alexander Sands composed the song Strangers No Longer, based upon the social teachings and challenges found in the pastoral letter. The song's opening line "They say: hey here we are in beautiful Texas", is reported to come from the opening of Game 3 of the 2005 World Series played in Houston Texas. In a 2006 radio interview, the composer himself discussed the speculation: "I used that line from the baseball game to mock the hypocrisy- the same people who spit on immigrants trying to come to America and earn a decent wage are the same ones who are cheering at their favorite Latino ball players to win their pennants and trophies. Suddenly people are off their seats screaming, 'we love you', and the money involved is just gross."

External links 
Text of Strangers No Longer
Justice for Immigrants Campaign

2003 works
Documents of the Catholic Social Teaching tradition
United States Conference of Catholic Bishops
Illegal immigration to the United States
2003 in Christianity
21st-century Catholicism