[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: curcumin anti-inflammatory clinical trial randomiz | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: curcumin anti-inflammatory clinical trial randomized]

6. Phytomedicine. 2021 Jan;80:153395. doi: 10.1016/j.phymed.2020.153395. Epub
2020  Oct 22.

Effects of curcumin supplementation on blood glucose, insulin resistance and 
androgens in patients with polycystic ovary syndrome: A randomized double-blind 
placebo-controlled clinical trial.

Heshmati J(1), Moini A(2), Sepidarkish M(3), Morvaridzadeh M(4), Salehi M(5), 
Palmowski A(6), Mojtahedi MF(7), Shidfar F(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Nutrition, School of Public Health, Iran University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(2)Breast Disease Research Center(BDRC), Tehran University Of Medical Sciences, 
Tehran, Iran; Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Endocrinology and Female 
Infertility Unit, Arash Women's Hospital, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, 
Tehran, Iran; Department of Endocrinology and Female Infertility, Reproductive 
Biomedicine Research Center, Royan Institute for Reproductive Biomedicine, 
ACECR, Tehran, Iran.
(3)Department of Biostatistics and Epidemiology, School of Public Health, Babol 
University of Medical Sciences, Babol, Iran.
(4)Department of Nutritional Science, School of Nutritional Science and Food 
Technology, Kermanshah University of Medical Sciences, Kermanshah, Iran.
(5)Department of Biostatistics, School of Public Health, Iran University of 
Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(6)Department of Rheumatology and Clinical Immunology, Charité - 
Universitätsmedizin Berlin, Berlin, Germany.
(7)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Endocrinology and Female Infertility 
Unit, Arash Women's Hospital, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, 
Iran. Electronic address: m_fmojtahedi@tums.ac.ir.
(8)Department of Nutrition, School of Public Health, Iran University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran, Iran. Electronic address: shidfar.f@iums.ac.ir.

BACKGROUND: Curcumin is a biologically active phytochemical ingredient found in 
turmeric. It has several pharmacologic effects that might benefit patients with 
polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS).
OBJECTIVE: We hypothesized curcumin to be effective in improving blood sugar 
levels, insulin resistance and hyperandrogenism in individuals with PCOS.
METHODS: In a randomized double-blind placebo-controlled trial, individuals with 
PCOS were treated with curcumin (500 mg three times daily) or placebo for 12 
weeks. Primary outcome measures were fasting plasma glucose (FPG), fasting 
insulin (FI), sex hormone levels, and hirsutism (Ferriman-Gallwey [mFG] score). 
Secondary outcomes included anthropometric measurements.
RESULTS: Of 72 randomized individuals, 67 completed the trial. The two groups 
were comparable at baseline. At the end of the study, FPG and 
Dehydroepiandrosterone levels had decreased significantly in the intervention 
group compared to control (difference of change (post-pre) between intervention 
and placebo groups: -4.11 mg/dL; 95% CI: -8.35, -0.35 mg/dL; p = 0.033 and 
-26.53 microg/dL; 95% CI: -47.99, -4.34 µg/dL; p = 0.035, respectively). We also 
observed a statistically non-significant increase (p = 0.082) in Estradiol 
levels in the intervention group compared to control. No serious adverse events 
were reported throughout the trial.
CONCLUSIONS: Curcumin might be a safe and useful supplement to ameliorate 
PCOS-associated hyperandrogenemia and hyperglycemia. However, longer trials 
investigating different dosages in longer durations are needed to underpin these 
findings.

Copyright © 2020. Published by Elsevier GmbH.

DOI: 10.1016/j.phymed.2020.153395
PMID: 33137599 [Indexed for MEDLINE]