[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: biomaterial implant osseointegration titanium clin | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: biomaterial implant osseointegration titanium clinical]

78. BMC Oral Health. 2022 Dec 22;22(1):628. doi: 10.1186/s12903-022-02673-6.

Early osseointegration of micro-arc oxidation coated titanium alloy implants 
containing Ag: a histomorphometric study.

Ding M(#)(1), Shi J(#)(1), Wang W(1), Li D(2), Tian L(3).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Military Stomatology and National Clinical Research 
Center for Oral Diseases and Shaanxi Clinical Research Center for Oral Diseases, 
Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery, School of Stomatology, The Fourth 
Military Medical University, No. 145 Changle Xi Road, Xi'an, 710032, People's 
Republic of China.
(2)Qingdao Stomatological Hospital Affiliated to Qingdao University, No. 17 
Dexian Road, Shinan District, Qingdao, 266001, Shandong Province, People's 
Republic of China. dechaoli2004@yahoo.com.cn.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Military Stomatology and National Clinical Research 
Center for Oral Diseases and Shaanxi Clinical Research Center for Oral Diseases, 
Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery, School of Stomatology, The Fourth 
Military Medical University, No. 145 Changle Xi Road, Xi'an, 710032, People's 
Republic of China. tianleison@163.com.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: This study aimed to evaluate bone response to micro-arc oxidation 
coated titanium alloy implants containing Ag.
METHODS: 144 titanium alloy implants were prepared by machine grinding and 
divided into three treatment groups as following, SLA group: sand-blasting and 
acid-etched coating; MAO group: micro-arc oxidation without Ag coating; MAO + Ag 
group: micro-arc oxidation containing Ag coating. Surface characterization of 
three kind of implants were observed by X-ray diffraction, energy dispersive 
X-ray spectrometer, scanning electron microscopy, High Resolution Transmission 
Electron Microscope and roughness analysis. The implants were inserted into dog 
femurs. 4, 8 and 12 weeks after operation, the bone response to the implant to 
the bone was evaluated by push-out experiment, histological and fluorescent 
labeling analysis.
RESULTS: MAO + Ag group consisted of a mixture of anatase and rutile. Ag was 
found in the form of Ag2O on the surface. The surface morphology of MAO + Ag 
group seemed more like a circular crater with upheaved edges and holes than the 
other two groups. The surface roughness of MAO and MAO + Ag groups were higher 
than SLA group, but no statistical difference between MAO and MAO + Ag groups. 
The contact angles in MAO + Ag group was smallest and the surface free energy 
was the highest among three groups. The maximum push-out strength of MAO and 
MAO + Ag groups were higher than SLA group at all time point, the value of 
MAO + Ag group was higher than MAO group at 4 and 8 weeks. Scanning electron 
microscopy examination for the surface and cross-section of the bone segments 
and fluorescent labeling analysis showed that the ability of bone formation and 
osseointegration in MAO + Ag group was higher than that of the other two groups.
CONCLUSION: The micro-arc oxidation combination with Ag coating is an excellent 
surface modification technique to posse porous surface structure and 
hydrophilicity on the titanium alloy implants surface and exhibits desirable 
ability of osseointegration.

© 2022. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12903-022-02673-6
PMCID: PMC9783399
PMID: 36550526 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that there are no competing 
interests in this study.