[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: low-level laser therapy wound healing pain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: low-level laser therapy wound healing pain]

53. Photomed Laser Surg. 2015 May;33(5):283-97. doi: 10.1089/pho.2014.3822.

Current indications of low-level laser therapy in plastic surgery: a review.

Hersant B(1), SidAhmed-Mezi M, Bosc R, Meningaud JP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Plastic & Reconstructive Surgery, Henri Mondor Hospital , 
Creteil, France .

OBJECTIVE: The aim of this comprehensive review is assess the relevant 
indications of LLLT in plastic surgery.
BACKGROUND DATA: Low-level laser therapy (LLLT) is a safe adjunct treatment for 
a myriad indications such as pain, musculoskeletal disorders, or oral mucositis 
in cancer patients.
METHODS: A systematic literature review was performed using the automated 
computerized PubMed search, with the key words low-level laser therapy and 
plastic surgery. In vivo and in vitro comparative studies conducted in humans or 
animals were included. A total of 113 articles were retrieved for screening, and 
40 articles were analyzed for data extraction: 28 on animals and 12 on humans.
RESULTS: Thirteen studies on animals showed that LLLT had efficacy in the 
improvement of flap survival. LLLT on a single spot over the pedicle area of the 
flap or near the base of the flap seemed to be superior to multi-irradiation. 
Also, LLLT seemed to improve chronic burn scars in humans, and acute wound 
healing in animals.
CONCLUSIONS: On the contrary, LLLT cannot be considered as a valid therapeutic 
option for venous ulcers. The published studies on alopecia did not show that 
LLLT had efficacy for this indication, and on skin aging only two studies are 
reported showing that LLLT globally improved aging of skin. No side effects have 
been reported. More comparative studies are needed to validate and widen the 
medical indications of LLLT in plastic surgery.

DOI: 10.1089/pho.2014.3822
PMID: 25954831 [Indexed for MEDLINE]