[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: crystal structure protein drug target binding | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: crystal structure protein drug target binding]

90. J Am Chem Soc. 2012 Mar 14;134(10):4637-45. doi: 10.1021/ja208755j. Epub 2012
 Mar 1.

A carrier protein strategy yields the structure of dalbavancin.

Economou NJ(1), Nahoum V, Weeks SD, Grasty KC, Zentner IJ, Townsend TM, Bhuiya 
MW, Cocklin S, Loll PJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Drexel University College 
of Medicine, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19102, United States.

Many large natural product antibiotics act by specifically binding and 
sequestering target molecules found on bacterial cells. We have developed a new 
strategy to expedite the structural analysis of such antibiotic-target 
complexes, in which we covalently link the target molecules to carrier proteins, 
and then crystallize the entire carrier-target-antibiotic complex. Using native 
chemical ligation, we have linked the Lys-D-Ala-D-Ala binding epitope for 
glycopeptide antibiotics to three different carrier proteins. We show that 
recognition of this peptide by multiple antibiotics is not compromised by the 
presence of the carrier protein partner, and use this approach to determine the 
first-ever crystal structure for the new therapeutic dalbavancin. We also report 
the first crystal structure of an asymmetric ristocetin antibiotic dimer, as 
well as the structure of vancomycin bound to a carrier-target fusion. The 
dalbavancin structure reveals an antibiotic molecule that has closed around its 
binding partner; it also suggests mechanisms by which the drug can enhance its 
half-life by binding to serum proteins, and be targeted to bacterial membranes. 
Notably, the carrier protein approach is not limited to peptide ligands such as 
Lys-D-Ala-D-Ala, but is applicable to a diverse range of targets. This strategy 
is likely to yield structural insights that accelerate new therapeutic 
development.

DOI: 10.1021/ja208755j
PMCID: PMC3304006
PMID: 22352468 [Indexed for MEDLINE]