[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: nanoparticle drug delivery tumor targeting cancer | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: nanoparticle drug delivery tumor targeting cancer]

62. Biol Pharm Bull. 2012;35(11):1855-61. doi: 10.1248/bpb.b212013.

Nanoparticle-mediated delivery of anticancer agents to tumor angiogenic vessels.

Asai T(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Biochemistry, Graduate Division of Pharmaceutical 
Sciences, University of Shizuoka, Shizouka, Japan. asai@u-shizuoka-ken.ac.jp

Nanoparticle-mediated drug delivery systems targeting tumor angiogenic vessels 
have been studied for antineovascular cancer therapy achieved by induction of 
apoptosis of angiogenic endothelial cells. Nanoparticles such as liposomes are 
considered to accumulate in tumors due to the enhanced permeability and 
retention effect. The delivery efficiency of this system appears to be affected 
by the density of tumor angiogenic vessels regardless of modification with 
tumor-targeting ligands on the surface of nanoparticles. It remains a 
challenging problem to deliver sufficient amounts of anticancer drugs to 
hypovascular tumors using nanoparticles. On the other hand, the strategy of 
angiogenic vessel-targeting is theoretically different from that of tumor 
cell-targeting since target angiogenic endothelial cells face the circulating 
blood. In addition, this strategy is expected to cause indirect tumor regression 
by disrupting angiogenic vessels. In this review, our recent studies are 
summarized to show the actual efficacy of angiogenic vessel-targeting delivery. 
We have developed various angiogenic vessel-targeted liposomes and evaluated 
them in experimental cancer models such as drug-resistant and hypovascular 
tumors. Our data indicate that increased apoptosis of angiogenic endothelial 
cells can be achieved by the targeted liposomes encapsulating cytotoxic drugs, 
resulting in enhanced anticancer effects. The advantages of angiogenic 
vessel-targeting are discussed based on our recent findings to provide an 
insight into why angiogenic vessels are a promising target for advanced cancer 
therapy.

DOI: 10.1248/bpb.b212013
PMID: 23123455 [Indexed for MEDLINE]