[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: Raman Spectroscopy for Instant Bladder Tumor Diagnosis: Syst | Type: Peer-Reviewed | Level: Expert]

[Semantic Scholar | Fields: Medicine | Year: 2024 | Citations: 5]

Title: Raman Spectroscopy for Instant Bladder Tumor Diagnosis: System Development and In Vivo Proof-Of-Principle Study in Accordance with the European Medical Device Regulation (MDR2017/745)

Abstract:
Simple Summary Raman spectroscopy is a label-free optical method that has proven its suitability for the discrimination between cancerous and noncancerous tissue. Bladder cancer diagnosis typically relies on excisional biopsies and histopathology, which are considered the gold standard. Here, we want to use an endoscopic setup to demonstrate the applicability of Raman spectroscopy in a clinical in vivo setting. In the European Union, the regulatory framework is given by the Medical Device Regulation. We describe the path and the necessary effort to be able to conduct a clinical investigation within this framework. The aim of this clinical examination was to perform Raman spectroscopy in the living bladder and to record Raman spectra of normal and tumorous bladder tissue and to determine the degree of bladder tumor in a post-processing step. The open prospective study includes 21 patients and presents preliminary results for the diagnostic abilities of our approach. Abstract This work reports on an in vivo Raman-based endoscopy system, invaScope, enabling Raman measurements of healthy and tumor bladder tissue during an endoscopic procedure in the operating theatre. The presented study outlines the progression from the initial concept (validated through previously performed ex vivo studies) to the approval and implementation of a clinical investigational device according to the requirement within the framework of the European Medical Device Regulation (MDR2017/745). The study’s primary objective was to employ the invaScope Raman system within the bladder, capturing in vivo spectroscopic Raman data followed by standard histo- and cytopathological examinations of urological tissue (considered the gold standard). The collected data were analyzed and correlated with histopathological findings post-procedure. Additionally, the study aimed to assess the feasibility of using diagnostic equipment, probes, and software for application in a clinical setting, evaluating usability aspects that are important during surgical procedures. This research represents a pivotal step toward advancing Raman spectroscopy for routine clinical use in characterizing bladder lesions.