[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: low-level laser therapy wound healing pain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: low-level laser therapy wound healing pain]

33. Graefes Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2025 Jun;263(6):1515-1522. doi: 
10.1007/s00417-025-06800-1. Epub 2025 Mar 19.

Illuminating eye care: the promise and future of red light therapy in 
ophthalmology.

Xue F(#)(1), Zhou Y(#)(1).

Author information:
(1)Kunshan Hospital of Traditional Chinese Medicine, 388 Zuchongzhi South Road, 
Kunshan City, Suzhou, Jiangsu Province, China.
(#)Contributed equally

With the rapid global rise of myopia, glaucoma, AMD, and dry eye disease, red 
light therapy (RLT) is quickly emerging as a non-invasive, breakthrough approach 
with extraordinary potential to transform eye health management. Originally 
applied for wound healing and pain relief, RLT has shown remarkable, 
multi-faceted effects in ophthalmology: slowing myopia progression, protecting 
retinal cells in glaucoma, reducing inflammation in AMD, and relieving symptoms 
of dry eye disease. However, alongside the surge in research interest, questions 
regarding optimal dosing, safety, and standardization remain pressing. This 
review summarizes the latest advances of RLT in eye health, explores its 
mechanisms of action, analyzes safety concerns in clinical applications, and 
discusses its synergistic potential with existing treatment methods as well as 
the integration of RLT with artificial intelligence and wearable technologies. 
In the future, RLT is expected to play a significant role in the management of 
chronic ocular diseases, but its long-term effects and safety need careful 
evaluation, with challenges also remaining in regulatory policies and clinical 
standardization.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, 
part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s00417-025-06800-1
PMID: 40105942 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethical approval: This article is 
a review and does not contain any studies with human participants or animals 
performed by any of the authors. Conflict of interest: All authors certify that 
they have no affiliations with or involvement in any organization or entity with 
any financial interest (such as honoraria; educational grants; participation in 
speakers’ bureaus; membership, employment, consultancies, stock ownership, or 
other equity interest; and expert testimony or patent-licensing arrangements), 
or non-financial interest (such as personal or professional relationships, 
affiliations, knowledge, or beliefs) in the subject matter or materials 
discussed in this manuscript.