[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: graphene biomedical applications toxicity review | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: graphene biomedical applications toxicity review]

43. Int J Mol Sci. 2018 Nov 12;19(11):3564. doi: 10.3390/ijms19113564.

Graphene Nanomaterials: Synthesis, Biocompatibility, and Cytotoxicity.

Liao C(1), Li Y(2), Tjong SC(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Materials Science and Engineering, Southern University of 
Science and Technology, Shenzhen 518055, China. liaocz@sustc.edu.cn.
(2)Department of Materials Science and Engineering, Liaocheng University, 
Liaocheng 252000, China. liyuchao@lcu.edu.cn.
(3)Department of Physics, City University of Hong Kong, Tat Chee Avenue, 
Kowloon, Hong Kong, China. aptjong@gmail.com.

Graphene, graphene oxide, and reduced graphene oxide have been widely considered 
as promising candidates for industrial and biomedical applications due to their 
exceptionally high mechanical stiffness and strength, excellent electrical 
conductivity, high optical transparency, and good biocompatibility. In this 
article, we reviewed several techniques that are available for the synthesis of 
graphene-based nanomaterials, and discussed the biocompatibility and toxicity of 
such nanomaterials upon exposure to mammalian cells under in vitro and in vivo 
conditions. Various synthesis strategies have been developed for their 
fabrication, generating graphene nanomaterials with different chemical and 
physical properties. As such, their interactions with cells and organs are 
altered accordingly. Conflicting results relating biocompatibility and 
cytotoxicity induced by graphene nanomaterials have been reported in the 
literature. In particular, graphene nanomaterials that are used for in vitro 
cell culture and in vivo animal models may contain toxic chemical residuals, 
thereby interfering graphene-cell interactions and complicating interpretation 
of experimental results. Synthesized techniques, such as liquid phase 
exfoliation and wet chemical oxidation, often required toxic organic solvents, 
surfactants, strong acids, and oxidants for exfoliating graphite flakes. Those 
organic molecules and inorganic impurities that are retained in final graphene 
products can interact with biological cells and tissues, inducing toxicity or 
causing cell death eventually. The residual contaminants can cause a higher risk 
of graphene-induced toxicity in biological cells. This adverse effect may be 
partly responsible for the discrepancies between various studies in the 
literature.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms19113564
PMCID: PMC6274822
PMID: 30424535 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.