[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: low-level laser therapy wound healing pain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: low-level laser therapy wound healing pain]

84. Eur Arch Paediatr Dent. 2011 Apr;12(2):118-23. doi: 10.1007/BF03262791.

Low level laser therapy in oral mucositis: a pilot study.

Cauwels RG(1), Martens LC.

Author information:
(1)Dept of Paediatric Dentistry, University Hospital, De Pintelaan 158, B 9000 
Ghent, Belgium. rita.cauwels@ugent.be

AIM: The goal of this pilot study was to investigate the capacity of pain relief 
and wound healing of low level laser therapy (LLLT) in chemotherapy-induced oral 
mucositis (OM) in a paediatric oncology population group.
STUDY DESIGN AND METHODS: 16 children (mean age 9.4 years) from the Gent 
University Hospital - Department Paediatric Oncology/haematology, suffering from 
chemotherapy-induced OM were selected. During clinical investigations, the OM 
grade was assessed using the WHO classification. All children were treated using 
a GaAlAs diode laser with 830 nm wavelength and a potency of 150 mW. The energy 
released was adapted according to the severity of the OM lesions. The same 
protocol was repeated every 48 hrs until healing of each lesion occurred. 
Subjective pain was monitored before and immediately after treatment by an 
appropriate pain scale and functional impairment was recorded. At each visit, 
related blood cell counts were recorded.
RESULTS: After 12 mths, records were evaluated and information about treatment 
sequence, treatment sessions and frequencies related to the pain sensation and 
comfort were registered. Immediately after beaming the OM, pain relief was 
noticed. Depending on the severity of OM, on average, 2.5 treatments per lesion 
in a period of 1 week were sufficient to heal a mucositis lesion.
CONCLUSIONS: LLLT, one of the most recent and promising treatment therapies, has 
been shown to reduce the severity and duration of mucositis and to relieve pain 
significantly. In the present study similar effects were obtained with the 
GaAlAs 830nm diode laser. It became clear that using the latter diode device, 
new guidelines could be developed as a function of the WHO-OM grades i.e. the 
lower the grade, the less energy needed. Immediate pain relief and improved 
wound healing resolved functional impairment that was obtained in all cases.

DOI: 10.1007/BF03262791
PMID: 21473845 [Indexed for MEDLINE]