[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: curcumin anti-inflammatory clinical trial randomiz | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: curcumin anti-inflammatory clinical trial randomized]

56. Nutr J. 2025 Jul 18;24(1):115. doi: 10.1186/s12937-025-01184-8.

The effectiveness and safety of nanocurcumin supplementation for diabetic 
peripheral neuropathy in patients with type 2 diabetes: a randomized 
double-blind clinical trial.

Mansour A(1), Rahimi HR(2), Gerami H(1)(3), Khorasanian AS(1)(4), Esmaeili 
AH(5), Amrollahi Bioky A(1), Mohajeri-Tehrani MR(1), Fateh HR(#)(6)(7), 
Sajjadi-Jazi SM(#)(8).

Author information:
(1)Endocrinology and Metabolism Research Center, Endocrinology and Metabolism 
Clinical Sciences Institute, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, 
Iran.
(2)Department of Medical Genetics & Molecular Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, 
Mashhad University of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran.
(3)Nutrition and Food Security Research Center, Shahid Sadoughi University of 
Medical Sciences, Yazd, Iran.
(4)Department of Nutrition, School of Public Health, Iran University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(5)Department of Nutrition, Science and Research Branch, Islamic Azad 
University, Tehran, Iran.
(6)Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Shariati Hospital, Tehran 
University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran. hr.fateh@gmail.com.
(7)Diabetes Research Center, Endocrinology and Metabolism Clinical Sciences 
Institute, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran. 
hr.fateh@gmail.com.
(8)Endocrinology and Metabolism Research Center, Endocrinology and Metabolism 
Clinical Sciences Institute, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, 
Iran. mahmood.sajadi@gmail.com.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Diabetic neuropathy is the most prevalent complication of diabetes 
mellitus, affecting up to 50% of patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM). 
Among the various types of diabetic neuropathy, diabetic peripheral neuropathy 
(DPN) is the most common. Numerous animal studies have highlighted a strong 
association between the improvement of DPN and curcumin supplementation, 
particularly due to curcumin's anti-inflammatory and antioxidant properties. 
However, the effects of curcumin on DPN have been evaluated in only one 
randomized controlled trial. In our study, we assessed the efficacy and safety 
of a 16-week supplementation with nanocurcumin in T2DM patients suffering from 
DPN.
METHODS: This randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial was conducted 
at a diabetes clinic within the Endocrinology and Metabolism Research Center in 
Tehran, Iran. The study aimed to evaluate the effects of nanocurcumin (40 mg 
taken twice daily) compared to a placebo in patients with DPN over a 16-week 
period. The primary endpoint of the study was the reduction of pain severity, 
measured by the Numerical Rating Scale (NRS). Additionally, we assessed 
neuropathic outcomes by monitoring changes in the Michigan Neuropathy Screening 
Instrument examination (MNSIE) and the Neuropathy Disability Score (NDS). 
Secondary endpoints included improvements in metabolic and cardiovascular 
parameters from baseline to the end of the treatment.
RESULTS: Ninety-seven patients were randomized, with 41 in the nanocurcumin 
group and 45 in the placebo group completing the study. No significant 
differences were found between the groups in terms of NRS (P = 0.787), NDS 
(P = 0.576), or MNSIE (P = 0.405) after 16 weeks. Nanocurcumin supplementation 
did not alter the metabolic profile or cardiovascular parameters and was 
well-tolerated, without major adverse events.
CONCLUSION: Nanocurcumin supplementation over 16 weeks did not improve pain, 
neuropathic outcomes, or metabolic/cardiovascular parameters in patients with 
T2DM suffering from DPN.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12937-025-01184-8
PMCID: PMC12273300
PMID: 40682175 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethical approval and consent to 
participate: The protocol (available at nimad.ac.ir) was approved by the 
National Institute for Medical Research Developments Ethics Committee, and all 
participants provided written informed consent. Consent for publication: Not 
applicable. Competing interests: The authors declare no competing interests.