[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: low-level laser therapy wound healing pain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: low-level laser therapy wound healing pain]

88. Lasers Surg Med. 2010 Aug;42(6):450-66. doi: 10.1002/lsm.20950.

Effect of pulsing in low-level light therapy.

Hashmi JT(1), Huang YY, Sharma SK, Kurup DB, De Taboada L, Carroll JD, Hamblin 
MR.

Author information:
(1)Wellman Center for Photomedicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, 
Massachusetts, USA.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: Low level light (or laser) therapy (LLLT) is a rapidly 
growing modality used in physical therapy, chiropractic, sports medicine and 
increasingly in mainstream medicine. LLLT is used to increase wound healing and 
tissue regeneration, to relieve pain and inflammation, to prevent tissue death, 
to mitigate degeneration in many neurological indications. While some agreement 
has emerged on the best wavelengths of light and a range of acceptable dosages 
to be used (irradiance and fluence), there is no agreement on whether continuous 
wave or pulsed light is best and on what factors govern the pulse parameters to 
be chosen.
STUDY DESIGN/MATERIALS AND METHODS: The published peer-reviewed literature was 
reviewed between 1970 and 2010.
RESULTS: The basic molecular and cellular mechanisms of LLLT are discussed. The 
type of pulsed light sources available and the parameters that govern their 
pulse structure are outlined. Studies that have compared continuous wave and 
pulsed light in both animals and patients are reviewed. Frequencies used in 
other pulsed modalities used in physical therapy and biomedicine are compared to 
those used in LLLT.
CONCLUSION: There is some evidence that pulsed light does have effects that are 
different from those of continuous wave light. However further work is needed to 
define these effects for different disease conditions and pulse structures.

(c) 2010 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/lsm.20950
PMCID: PMC2933784
PMID: 20662021 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: Luis De Taboada is an 
employee and stockholder in Photothera, Inc. that does phototherapy for stroke. 
James Carroll is owner of THOR Photomedicine a company that makes phototherapy 
devices.