[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: laser surgery LASIK corneal refractive outcome | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: laser surgery LASIK corneal refractive outcome]

3. Middle East Afr J Ophthalmol. 2023 May 25;29(3):147-155. doi: 
10.4103/meajo.meajo_207_22. eCollection 2022 Jul-Sep.

Understanding Corneal Epithelial Thickness Mapping.

Alghamdi A(1), Khan MS(1), Dakhil TA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Prince Sultan Military Medical City, Riyadh, 
Saudi Arabia.

Corneal epithelial thickness (CET) and the regional variations in response to 
changes in corneal architecture and biomechanics have recently drawn the 
interest of corneal surgeons. Corneal epithelium possesses the tremendous 
capability of remodeling and changing its thickness. This remodeling of corneal 
epithelium takes place in response to underlying stromal irregularities which 
can result from a variety of corneal disorders including corneal ectasia. 
Measurement of CET can reveal the underlying stromal abnormalities and 
supplement in early diagnosis of corneal disorders especially corneal ectasia 
which has been one of the leading challenges in planning corneal refractive 
surgery. A significant number of patients ends up in ectasia after refractive 
surgery and the most common cause of this complication is the presence of 
preoperative subclinical keratoconus. Furthermore, postoperative complications 
of corneal refractive surgery are partly masked by epithelial remodeling and 
make the diagnosis and management difficult and extremely challenging. This 
leads not only to unpredictable visual and refractive outcome but also the need 
of multiple interventions to treat these complications. Although corneal 
tomography is considered as gold standard in the detection and diagnosis of 
corneal ectasia, a small number of subclinical cases may still go undetected. In 
this review, we have highlighted the underlying mechanism of epithelial 
remodeling, the devices and imaging modalities used to measure CET, and 
application of epithelial mapping in the diagnosis and management of various 
corneal disorders.

Copyright: © 2023 Middle East African Journal of Ophthalmology.

DOI: 10.4103/meajo.meajo_207_22
PMCID: PMC10319081
PMID: 37408717 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: There are no conflicts of interest.