[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: Cold spraying | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Cold spraying — Overview

μm); Possibility to spray nanomaterials and amorphous materials; Short stand off distance; Minimum surface preparation; Low energy consumption; Possibility to obtain complex shapes and internal surfaces; High productivity due to high power feed rate; High deposition rates and efficiencies; Possibility to collect and reuse 100% of particles; No toxic wastes; No combustion; Increased operational safety due to the absence of high temperature gas jets and radiation. The jet obtained is a high-density particle beam due to the small size of the nozzle (10–15 mm2) and the short stand-off distance (25 mm). This results in high focus of the jet and precise control over the deposition area. Finally, inducing compressive stresses allows to obtain dense uniform and ultra-thick (20 μm – 50 mm) coatings. On the other side, some difficulties can be found. For instance, it is difficult to spray hard and brittle materials because, in this case, mechanical adhesion through plastic deformation could be not as effective as it is for ductile particles. Other problems could include:
 Near-zero ductility in the as-sprayed condition;
 Need for ductile substrate;
 Difficulty in processing pure ceramics and some alloys as work-hardening alloys;
 high cost of Helium;
 fouling and erosion of the nozzle. Applications

Coatings
The ability for CS to deposit materials that are phase-sensitive or temperature-sensitive has positioned the technique to prepare coatings not possible with other thermal spray techniques. CS can generally be used to produce coatings of a wide variety of metals, alloys, and metal-based composites, including those materials that have an exceptionally high melting temperatures (e.g. tantalum, niobium, superalloys). The process is also valuable for depositing materials that are extremely sensitive to the presence of oxygen and will readily oxidize at modest elevated temperatures – a result which is deleterious to the performance of these materials. Some examples of oxygen sensitive coatings that are commonly produced with CS are aluminum, copper, titanium, and carbide composites (e.g. tungsten carbide), as well as coatings made from amorphous alloys. Additional developments in CS are related to the deposition of ceramic materials on metals, notably titanium dioxide for photocatalytic effects, and the use of CS in additive manufacturing. Repair
Cold spraying is now used to repair machine parts in a matter of minutes. Metal (nickel alloys) particles travel in a blend of nitrogen and helium gas and gradually stack up on the damaged part to recreate the desired surface. A robot controls the movement of the sprayer. The U.S. Army uses the technology to repair a component in Blackhawk helicopters. General Electric is adapting the technology for civilian applications. The US Navy has adopted cold spray welding across its global operations on an experimental basis. Manufacturing
Additive manufacturing using cold spray technology can be used to develop parts and components rapidly with deposition rates as high as 45 kg/hour – much faster than other additive manufacturing methods. Unlike other additive manufacturing methods such as selective laser melting or electron beam additive manufacturing, cold spraying does not melt metals. This means that metals are not affected by heat-related distortion, and parts do not need to be manufactured in an inert gas or vacuum sealed environment, allowing the creation of much larger structures. The world's largest and fastest metal 3D printer has a build envelope of 9×3×1.5 m and utilizes gas dynamic cold spray. Manufacturing with cold spray technology provides advantages such as the ability to create shapes with no shape or size constraints, more efficient buy-to-fly ratio when compared to machining, and capable of fusing dissimilar metals to create hybrid metal parts – materials such as titanium alloys, copper, zinc, stainless steel, aluminium, nickel, even hastelloy and inconel can be sprayed together. References

Industrial processes
Coatings