[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: laser dermatology skin treatment tattoo hair | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: laser dermatology skin treatment tattoo hair]

10. J Dermatol. 2000 Nov;27(11):700-5. doi: 10.1111/j.1346-8138.2000.tb02262.x.

Lasers in dermatology--a critical update.

Anderson RR(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, BHX630-Massachusetts General Hospital, 55 Fruit 
Street, Boston, MA 02114, USA.

Lasers are accepted for treating nevus of Ota, other pigmented lesions, hair 
removal, vascular lesions, leg veins, tattoos, and for skin resurfacing. These 
are photothermal treatments, in which certain skin "targets" are heated, 
followed by selective wound healing. Small pigmented targets such as the dermal 
melanocytes in nevus of Ota, are best treated with short (< 1 microsecond) laser 
pulses. Large targets, such as hair follicles, have long thermal relaxation 
times and are best treated with longer pulses. In general, the ideal pulse 
duration is about equal to the thermal relaxation time for pigmented targets. 
However, sometimes the actual target is not pigmented and is at some distance 
from a pigmented structure. For example the follicular stem cells, which are not 
pigmented, line the outer root sheath far away from the pigmented hair shaft. 
These cells appear to be an important target for permanent hair destruction. 
Pulses longer than the thermal relaxation time of the hair shaft allow heat 
conduction and better damage of follicular stem cells. Epidermal cooling works 
far better with pulses longer than about 10 ms, delivered through a cold medium 
(e.g., cold sapphire in contact with the skin). Thus, the combination of cooling 
and long near-infrared laser pulses allows safe and effective pigmented hair 
removal in all skin types. In contrast, epidermal protection from short pulses 
is best with dynamic pre-cooling (e.g., cryogen spray), for example during 
portwine stain treatment. A major challenge for the future of photothermal laser 
treatments is to develop ways of treating non-pigmented skin "targets". New uses 
for lasers are emerging. Diagnostic laser imaging and spectroscopy will soon 
emerge in dermatology. A near-infrared laser confocal microscope provides 
histology-like images of human skin. Imaging is painless and takes only a few 
minutes. Lesions including melanoma, basal cell and squamous cell carcinoma, 
microvascular and inflammatory lesions, dermatophytes, verrucae, etc, have 
distinct appearances. However, sensitivity and specificity of laser-based 
diagnostic imaging has not yet been compared with histopathology. Laser 
phototherapy is also emerging in dermatology. The 308 nm excimer laser has 
recently been shown to clear psoriasis faster than conventional phototherapy. 
Scalp psoriasis may soon be treated by fiber-optic delivery of this UV laser. 
The variety and utility of lasers in dermatology will probably continue to grow.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1346-8138.2000.tb02262.x
PMID: 11138535 [Indexed for MEDLINE]