[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: magnetic nanoparticle hyperthermia cancer therapy | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: magnetic nanoparticle hyperthermia cancer therapy]

53. Int J Nanomedicine. 2017 Aug 28;12:6273-6287. doi: 10.2147/IJN.S141072. 
eCollection 2017.

Effective heating of magnetic nanoparticle aggregates for in vivo 
nano-theranostic hyperthermia.

Wang C(1), Hsu CH(1)(2), Li Z(1), Hwang LP(2), Lin YC(2), Chou PT(2), Lin YY(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, University of California, Los 
Angeles, CA, USA.
(2)Department of Chemistry, National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan.

Magnetic resonance (MR) nano-theranostic hyperthermia uses magnetic 
nanoparticles to target and accumulate at the lesions and generate heat to kill 
lesion cells directly through hyperthermia or indirectly through thermal 
activation and control releasing of drugs. Preclinical and translational 
applications of MR nano-theranostic hyperthermia are currently limited by a few 
major theoretical difficulties and experimental challenges in in vivo 
conditions. For example, conventional models for estimating the heat generated 
and the optimal magnetic nanoparticle sizes for hyperthermia do not accurately 
reproduce reported in vivo experimental results. In this work, a revised 
cluster-based model was proposed to predict the specific loss power (SLP) by 
explicitly considering magnetic nanoparticle aggregation in in vivo conditions. 
By comparing with the reported experimental results of magnetite Fe3O4 and 
cobalt ferrite CoFe2O4 magnetic nanoparticles, it is shown that the revised 
cluster-based model provides a more accurate prediction of the experimental 
values than the conventional models that assume magnetic nanoparticles act as 
single units. It also provides a clear physical picture: the aggregation of 
magnetic nanoparticles increases the cluster magnetic anisotropy while reducing 
both the cluster domain magnetization and the average magnetic moment, which, in 
turn, shift the predicted SLP toward a smaller magnetic nanoparticle diameter 
with lower peak values. As a result, the heating efficiency and the SLP values 
are decreased. The improvement in the prediction accuracy in in vivo conditions 
is particularly pronounced when the magnetic nanoparticle diameter is in the 
range of ~10-20 nm. This happens to be an important size range for MR cancer 
nano-theranostics, as it exhibits the highest efficacy against both primary and 
metastatic tumors in vivo. Our studies show that a relatively 20%-25% smaller 
magnetic nanoparticle diameter should be chosen to reach the maximal heating 
efficiency in comparison with the optimal size predicted by previous models.

DOI: 10.2147/IJN.S141072
PMCID: PMC5584909
PMID: 28894366 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure The authors report no conflicts of 
interest in this work.