[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: MRI physics image quality artifact reduction | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: MRI physics image quality artifact reduction]

39. Magn Reson Imaging. 2019 Nov;63:170-177. doi: 10.1016/j.mri.2019.08.015. Epub
 2019 Aug 16.

Evaluation of magnetic resonance imaging acoustic noise reduction technology by 
magnetic gradient waveform control.

Yamashiro T(1), Morita K(2), Nakajima K(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Minoh City Hospital, 5-7-1 Kayano, Minoh-shi, Osaka 
562-8562, Japan. Electronic address: t.yamashiro.minoh.hp@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Central Radiology, Kumamoto University Hospital, 1-1-1 Honjo, 
Kumamoto-shi, Kumamoto 860-0811, Japan.
(3)Department of Radiology, Minoh City Hospital, 5-7-1 Kayano, Minoh-shi, Osaka 
562-8562, Japan.

BACKGROUND: ComforTone is a noise reduction technology used in magnetic 
resonance imaging (MRI) systems; it suppresses acoustic noise by modifying pulse 
sequences, which appropriately changes the magnetic field gradient waveforms. 
Although ComforTone can be used to solve the acoustic noise problems that affect 
patients who are exposed to acoustic noise from MRI, to the best of our 
knowledge, the associated technical details have not been published and its 
effects on acoustic noise reduction remain unclear.
PURPOSE: To evaluate the efficacy of acoustic noise reduction and the impact of 
acoustic noise reduction technology involving magnetic field gradient waveform 
control on image quality.
POPULATION: The study included 18 healthy volunteers (11 males and 7 females; 
median age, 34 years; age range, 24-51 years).
FIELD STRENGTH: 1.5 T Philips Ingenia using a SENSE head-spine coil.
ASSESSMENT: The sound pressure level (SPL) and 1/3 octave spectra of MRI 
acoustic noise with the human head positioned in the iso-center of the MRI 
system were measured for five different pulse sequences used in clinical MRI. 
This subjective evaluation of noise included 18 healthy volunteers. The degree 
of discomfort experienced by the subjects was measured using a visual analog 
scale. The image quality was assessed objectively and subjectively. For 
objective assessment, signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) and contrast-to -noise ratio 
(CNR) of diffusion-weighted images were measured; for subjective assessment, 
visual evaluation was performed by two radiologists.
STATISTICAL TESTS: Data were analyzed using Welch's t-test, and a p value <0.05 
defined significance.
RESULTS: ComforTone could recognize a decrease in sound pressure, and the sound 
pressure of the acute high-frequency portion of the auditory characteristics was 
reduced. As reported by the subjects, discomfort caused by the sound pressure 
was significantly alleviated with ComforTone (p < 0.01). The sound pressure 
reduction in the high-frequency region with high audibility characteristics was 
recognized by ComforTone. The visual evaluation of the image quality of the 
diffusion-weighted images revealed that although there was no difference between 
SNR and CNR, the image quality was reduced by distortion artifacts.
DATA CONCLUSION: ComforTone reduced the SPL in the frequency range where 
auditory characteristics were sensitive, suggesting that ComforTone was useful 
for auditory protection and alleviation of discomfort in patients undergoing 
MRI. However, because magnetic field gradient waveform control is involved, such 
noise-reducing techniques should be used by considering their possible influence 
on the image quality.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mri.2019.08.015
PMID: 31425801 [Indexed for MEDLINE]