[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Propulsion Mechanics | Topic: Magnetic field oscillating amplified thruster | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Magnetic field oscillating amplified thruster — Overview

originally invented and defined by Manfred Hettmer in 1982. He also developed the system from a theoretical model into a practical device after reaching a basic level of own funding by his entrepreneurship in the IT-branche. In the first logical step in 1998 he began coding a computer simulation and built a mock-up for defining components and functions in 1999 (at first without a plasma source). By establishing professional contacts, Hettmer was also able to put together a small team. The first tests with a functional breadboard model were performed in a laboratory of the LRT (Institute of Astronautics) of the Technical University of Munich in Garching. A first patent application was filed in 2003. In an expert opinion by Horst Loeb (winner of the Stuhlinger Medal in 2005) at the Justus-Liebig-University Gießen, the MOA concept was also confirmed on the basis of the technical concept and the simulation data created by Hettmer. Finally a laboratory at the Technical University Graz could be used for further testing. At the Institute of Communication Networks and Satellite Communication the test campaign continued and showed the feasibility of the MOA concept. The obtained results were presented at the International Astronautical Congress in Fukuoka, Japan, on October 21, 2005. An article written by Hettmer was published in a journal in Germany in 2006. The dedicated company called QASAR Technologieentwicklung Ges.m.b.H. (Austrian Company register HG Wien FN 268333h ) founded by Hettmer in 2003 had been set up to further develop the MOA technology and to test potential terrestrial applications, both for spaceflight, in the area of coating and other areas. In summer 2005, the MOA prototype has reached TRL 5 (technology readiness level) after the component and/or breadboard has been validated in a relevant environment. After QASAR Technologieentwicklung Ges.m.b.H. was closed at the beginning of 2009 due to internal difficulties with shareholders and investors, Hettmer continued the project largely with its own funds within the given possibilities. The implementation of a commercial application is planned. See also 
 Spacecraft propulsion

References

External links
 QASAR Technologie(s)
 First filed Patent AT502984 (A1) 
 Patent within the esp@cenet of the European Patent Office
 Abstract of the International Astronautical Congress 2005
 Abstract of the International Astronautical Congress 2010
Acta Astronautica - Volume 63
 Alfvén waves in the Encyclopedia of Mathematics
 Thermal velocities in the plasma of a MOA Device, M.Hettmer, Int J Aeronautics Aerospace Res. 2023;10(1):297-300

Magnetic propulsion devices
Spacecraft propulsion