[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: cannabis cannabidiol therapeutic epilepsy pain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: cannabis cannabidiol therapeutic epilepsy pain]

42. BMJ Support Palliat Care. 2021 Sep;11(3):299-302. doi: 
10.1136/bmjspcare-2021-002888. Epub 2021 Apr 26.

State of the science: cannabis and cannabinoids in palliative medicine-the 
potential.

Roychoudhury P(1), Kapoor AK(2), Walsh D(3), Cortes H(1), Clarke H(4)(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Anesthesia and Pain Management, University Health Network, Toronto, Ontario, 
Canada.
(2)Department of Oncoanesthesia, AIIMS, New Delhi, Delhi, India.
(3)Department of Supportive Care and Survivorship, Atrium Health, Charlotte, 
North Carolina, USA.
(4)Anesthesia and Pain Management, University Health Network, Toronto, Ontario, 
Canada hance.clarke@uhn.ca.
(5)Anesthesiology and Pain Medicine, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, 
Canada.
(6)Centre for Cannabinoid Therapeutics, University Health Network, Toronto, 
Ontario, Canada.

Cannabinoids are chemicals derived naturally from the cannabis plant or are 
synthetically manufactured. They interact directly with cannabinoid receptors or 
share chemical similarity with endocannabinoids (or both). Within palliative 
medicine, cannabinoid receptors (CB1 and CB2) may modulate some cancer symptoms: 
appetite, chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting, and mood, pain and sleep 
disorders. Opioid and cannabinoid receptors have overlapping neuroanatomical 
receptor distribution, particularly at the dorsal horn, dorsal striatum and 
locus coeruleus. They have a favourable safety profile compared with opioids, 
and cannabis-based medicines help chronic pain. While cannabidiol (CBD) has 
anti-inflammatory properties, tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) is the psychoactive 
substance for issues such as mood and sleep. Nabiximols (Sativex), a CBD:THC 
combination, is Food and Drug Administration approved for some multiple 
sclerosis symptoms and epilepsy. There has been a swift societal evolution in 
attitudes about use of cannabis and cannabinoid medicines for chronic pain. In 
the USA, 33 states have now legalised prescription-based medical cannabis for 
several medical conditions; Canada has had legislation since 2001 authorising 
medical use. The European Union (EU) recently declared all EU citizens must have 
access to medical cannabis over the next 4 years. The integration into medicine 
and routine clinical use of cannabis is fraught with information gaps, 
regulatory issues and scarcity of research. Each patient should have a 
comprehensive assessment and risk-benefit discussion before any cannabis-based 
intervention to avoid possible complications such as hallucinations, psychosis 
and potential cardiac harm.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2021. No commercial re-use. See rights and 
permissions. Published by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjspcare-2021-002888
PMID: 33903260 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.