[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: Herbals: Their Origin and Evolution — Arber | Type: Instruction-QA | Level: Graduate]

Question: Provide a comprehensive expert-level explanation of Herbals: Their Origin and Evolution — Arber in the context of Applied Sciences.

Answer:
Produced by The Online Distributed Proofreading Team at
http://www.pgdp.net (This file was produced from images
generously made available by The Internet Archive/American
Libraries.)









  AN ENGLISHMAN'S VIEW
  OF THE BATTLE BETWEEN THE
  ALABAMA AND THE KEARSARGE.

  AN ACCOUNT OF

  THE NAVAL ENGAGEMENT IN THE BRITISH CHANNEL,
  ON SUNDAY, JUNE 19TH, 1864. FROM INFORMATION
  PERSONALLY OBTAINED IN THE TOWN OF CHERBOURG,
  AS WELL AS FROM THE OFFICERS AND CREW OF THE
  UNITED STATES' SLOOP-OF-WAR KEARSARGE, AND
  THE WOUNDED AND PRISONERS OF THE CONFEDERATE
  PRIVATEER.


  BY FREDERICK MILNES EDGE.


  NEW YORK:
  ANSON D. F. RANDOLPH,
  No. 770 BROADWAY.
  1864.




Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1864, BY ANSON D. F.
RANDOLPH, In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States
for the Southern District of New York.


  EDWARD O. JENKINS,
  Printer and Stereotyper,
  20 NORTH WILLIAM STREET.




  This Record
  OF
  A MOST GLORIOUS VICTORY
  GAINED IN THE CAUSE OF
  JUSTICE AND HUMANITY,
  IS
  DEDICATED TO
  THAT NOBLE OFFSPRING OF THE AMERICAN PEOPLE

  The Sanitary Commission of the United States,

  BY
  THEIR OBEDIENT SERVANT,
  THE AUTHOR.

  LONDON, _July 14, 1864_.




The writer of this pamphlet is an English gentleman of intelligence now
residing in London, who has spent some time in this country, and is known
and esteemed by many of our best citizens. He visited Cherbourg for the
express purpose of making the inquiry and investigation, the results of
which are embodied in the following pages, and generously devotes the
pecuniary results of his copyright to the funds of the SANITARY
COMMISSION.




The Alabama and the Kearsarge.


The importance of the engagement between the United States Sloop-of-war,
Kearsarge, and the Confederate Privateer, Alabama, cannot be estimated by
the size of the two vessels. The conflict off Cherbourg on Sunday, the
19th of June, was the first decisive engagement between shipping propelled
by steam, and the first test of the merits of modern naval artillery. It
was, moreover, a contest for superiority between the ordnance of Europe
and America, whilst the result furnishes us with _data_ wherefrom to
estimate the relative advantages of rifled and smooth-bore cannon at short
range.

Perhaps no greater or more numerous misrepresentations were ever made in
regard to an engagement than in reference to the one in question. The
first news of the conflict came to us enveloped in a mass of statements,
the greater part of which, not to use an unparliamentary expression, was
diametrically opposed to the truth; and although several weeks have now
elapsed since the Alabama followed her many defenceless victims to their
watery grave, these misrepresentations obtain as much credence as ever.
The victory of the Kearsarge was accounted for, and the defeat of the
Alabama excused or palliated upon the following principal reasons:--

    1. The superior size and speed of the Kearsarge.

    2. The superiority of her armament.

    3. The chain-plating at her sides.

    4. The greater number of her crew.

    5. The unpreparedness of the Alabama.

    6. The assumed necessity of Captain Semmes' accepting the challenge
    sent him (as represented) by the commander of the Kearsarge.

Besides these misstatements there have been others put forth, either in
ignorance of the real facts of the case, or with a purposed intention of
diminishing the merit of the victory by casting odium upon the Federals on
the score of inhumanity. In the former category must be placed the remarks
of the _Times_ (June 21st); but it is just to state that the observations
in question were made on receipt of the first news, and from information
furnished probably by parties unconnected with the paper, and desirous of
palliating the Alabama's defeat by any means in their power. We are
informed in the article above referred to that the guns of the latter
vessel "had been pointed for 2,000 yards, and the second shot went right
through the Kearsarge," whereas no shot whatever went through as stated.
Again, "the Kearsarge fired about 100 (shot) chiefly 11-in. shell," the
fact being that not one-third of her projectiles were of that calibre.
Further on we find--"The men (of the Alabama) were all true to the last;
they only ceased firing when the water came to the muzzles of their guns."
Such a declaration as this is laughable in the extreme; the Alabama's
guns were all on the spar-deck, like those of the Kearsarge; and, to
achieve what the _Times_ represents, her men must have fought on until the
hull of their vessel was two feet under water. The truth is--if the
evidence of the prisoners saved by the Kearsarge may be taken--Captain
Semmes hauled down his flag immediately after being informed by his chief
engineer that the water was putting out the fires; and, within a few
minutes, the water gained so rapidly on the vessel that her bow rose
slowly in the air, and half her guns obtained a greater elevation than
they had ever known previously. It is unfortunate to find such cheap-novel
style of writing in a paper which at some future period may be referred to
as an authoritative chronicler of events now transpiring.

It would be too long a task to notice all the numerous misstatements of
private individuals, and of the English and French press in reference to
this action: the best mode is to give the facts as they occurred, leaving
the public to judge by internal evidence on which side the truth exists.

Within a few days of the fight, the writer of these pages crossed from
London to Cherbourg for the purpose of obtaining by personal examination
full and precise information in reference to the engagement. It would seem
as though misrepresentation, if not positive falsehood, were inseparable
from everythi