[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Propulsion Mechanics | Topic: New Shepard | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# New Shepard — Overview

woman to fly with Blue Origin on the New Shepard rocket. As of June 2022, the company has generated more than $100M from the New Shepard space tourism program. Flight list Design The New Shepard is a fully reusable, vertical takeoff, vertical landing (VTVL) space vehicle composed of two principal parts: a pressurized crew capsule and a booster rocket that Blue Origin calls a propulsion module. The New Shepard is controlled entirely by on-board computers, without ground control or a human pilot. Crew capsule 
The New Shepard crew capsule is a pressurized crew capsule that can carry six people, and supports a "full-envelope" launch escape system that can separate the capsule from the booster rocket anywhere during the ascent. The interior volume of the capsule is . The Crew Capsule Escape Solid Rocket Motor (CCE-SRM) is sourced from Aerojet Rocketdyne. After separation from the booster, three parachutes deploy for a soft landing (aproximently 24 km/h or 15 mph for the passengers)

Flight profile 
The New Shepard is launched 30 miles north of Van Horn, Texas called Launch Site One (LS1)  and then performs a powered flight for about 110 seconds, up to an altitude of . The vehicle then continues climbing due to the capsules momentum and reaches an apogee above the Kármán Line. After reaching apogee, the vehicle performs a descent and restart its main engines a few tens of seconds before vertical landing, close to its launch site. The total flight duration of the rocket is over 7 minutes. The crewed variant features a separate crew module that separates close to peak altitude, and the propulsion module performs a powered landing while the crew module lands under three parachutes and a solid rocket motor. Total flight time is around 10 minutes. The crew module can also separate in case of a vehicle malfunction or other emergency using solid propellant separation boosters, then performing a parachute landing. NASA suborbital research payloads

NASA Suborbital Research Payloads 
"New Shepard offers flights to space over 100 kilometers (62 miles) for payloads inside our cabin or with direct exposure to the space environment. With minutes of high-quality microgravity or partial-G, access to the Kármán Line, and gentle return of payload, New Shepard is transforming access to space research."- New Shepard Payloads, Blueorigin.com

, Blue Origin had submitted the New Shepard reusable launch vehicle for use as an uncrewed rocket for NASA's suborbital reusable launch vehicle (sRLV) solicitation under NASA's Flight Opportunities Program. Blue Origin projects  altitude in flights of approximately ten minutes duration, while carrying an  research payload. By March 2016, Blue Origin noted that they are "due to start flying unaccompanied scientific payloads later [in 2016]." On April 29, 2018, during its eighth flight New Shepard carried the Schmitt Space Communicator SC-1x, a three-pound device developed by Solstar that launched the first commercial wi-fi hotspot service in space and sent the first commercial Twitter message from space. NASA provided a part of the $2 million project's funding as a part of its Flight Opportunities program. On 12 September 2022,18 NASA payloads were flying on NS-23 when an in-flight failure of the booster's main engine caused an emergency ejection of the payload capsule. The payload capsule landed safely and was recovered whilst the booster was lost. Involvement with NASA Commercial Crew Development Program 
Blue Origin received US$3.7 million in Commercial Crew Development (CCDev) phase 1 to advance several development objectives of its innovative "pusher" Launch Abort System (LAS) and composite pressure vessel. In February 2011, with the end of the second ground test nearly complete, the company completed all work envisioned under the phase 1 contract for the pusher escape system. They also "completed work on the other aspect of its award, risk reduction work on a composite pressure vessel" for the vehicle. References

External links 

  
 Blue's Rocket Clues (MSNBC's Cosmic Log, 24 June 2006)
 Future & Fantasy Spaceships Primed for Launch Commercial, Orbital Spacecraft (See Page 8)
 Latest Blue Origin news on the Space Fellowship
 Secretive Spaceship Builder's Plans Hinted at in NASA Agreement Commercial Crew Development Blue Origin (2 New craft images)

Videos
 Images and videos at Blue Origin
 New Shepard space vehicle first successful soft landing, 23 November 2015 (YouTube). Blue Origin launch vehicles
Space tourism
Private spaceflight
Reusable launch systems
VTVL rockets
Suborbital spaceflight
Vehicles introduced in 2015
Alan Shepard