[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: graphene biomedical applications toxicity review | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: graphene biomedical applications toxicity review]

72. Microorganisms. 2022 Dec 9;10(12):2439. doi: 10.3390/microorganisms10122439.

Anti-Infective and Toxicity Properties of Carbon Based Materials: Graphene and 
Functionalized Carbon Nanotubes.

Hadidi N(1), Mohebbi M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Research and EM Microscope, Pasteur Institute of Iran 
(PII), Tehran P.O. Box 1316943551, Iran.

Recently, antimicrobial activities of various carbon-based nanomaterials against 
specific pathogens have become one of the most significant research interests in 
this field. Carbon nanotubes (CNTs) are promising multidisciplinary 
nanostructures in biomedicine, drug delivery, genetic engineering, biosensors, 
and artificial implants. However, the biomedical administration of CNTs is 
dependent on their solubility, toxicity, and biocompatibility, as well as novel 
drug-delivery applications through optimization of the drug's loading capacity, 
cellular absorption, and continuous release within the target cell. The usage of 
CNTs and Graphene materials as antimicrobial agents and nanocarriers for 
antibiotics delivery would possibly improve their bioavailability and facilitate 
better anti-infective therapy. However, it is worth mentioning that CNTs' 
antimicrobial activity and toxicity are highly dependent on their preparation 
and synthesis method. Various types of research have confirmed that diameter, 
length, residual catalyst, metal content, surface coating, electronic structure, 
and dispersibility would affect CNTs' toxicity toward bacteria and human cells. 
In this review article, a general study was performed on the antimicrobial 
properties of carbon-based nanomaterials, as well as their toxicity and 
applications in confronting different microorganisms. This study could be useful 
for researchers who are looking for new and effective drug delivery methods in 
the field of microbial resistance.

DOI: 10.3390/microorganisms10122439
PMCID: PMC9784703
PMID: 36557692

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.