[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: Computer-generated holography | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Computer-generated holography — Overview

point source concept, where the object is broken down in self-luminous points. An elementary hologram is calculated for every point source and the final hologram is synthesized by superimposing all the elementary holograms. This concept has been first reported by Waters whose major assumption originated with Rogers who recognized that a Fresnel zone plate could be considered a special case of the hologram proposed by Gabor. But, as far as most of the object points were non-zero, the computational complexity of the point-source concept was much higher than in the Fourier transformation concept. Some researchers tried to overcome this drawback by predefining and storing all the possible elementary holograms using special data storage techniques because of the huge capacity that is needed in this case, others by using special hardware. In the point-source concept the major problem is the trade-off between data storage capacity and computational speed. In particular, algorithms that increase computational speed usually have much greater data storage requirements while algorithms that reduce data storage requirements have high computational complexity (though some optimizations are possible). Another concept which leads to point source CGHs is the ray tracing method. Ray tracing is perhaps the simplest method of computer generated holography to visualize. Essentially, the path length difference between the distance a virtual "reference beam" and a virtual "object beam" have to travel is calculated; this will give the relative phase of the scattered object beam. Over the last three decades, both concepts have made remarkable progress improving computational speed and image quality. However, some technical restraints, like computation and storage capacity, still burden digital holography which makes real-time applications almost impossible with current standard computer hardware. Generated Holography 

Once it is known what the scattered wavefront of the object looks like or how it may be computed, it must be fixed on a spatial light modulator (SLM), abusing this term to include not only LCD displays or similar devices, but also films and masks. Basically, there are different types of SLMs available: Pure phase modulators (retarding the illuminating wave), pure amplitude modulators (blocking the illumination light), polarization modulators (influencing the polarization state of light) and SLMs which have the capability of combined phase/amplitude modulation. In the case of pure phase or amplitude modulation, clearly quality losses are unavoidable. Early forms of pure amplitude holograms were simply printed in black and white, meaning that the amplitude had to be encoded with one bit of depth only. Similarly, the kinoform is a pure-phase encoding invented at IBM in the early days of CGH. Even if a fully complex phase/amplitude modulation would be ideal, a pure phase or pure amplitude solution is normally preferred because it is much easier to implement technologically. Nevertheless, for the creation of complicated light distribution simultaneous modulation of amplitude and phase is reasonable. So far two different approaches for amplitude-phase-modulation have been implemented. One is based on phase-only or amplitude-only modulation and consecutive spatial filtering, the other one is based on polarization holograms with variable orientation and magnitude of local birefringence. Holograms with a constraint, such as phase-only or amplitude-only, may be computed via algorithms such as the Gerchberg-Saxton algorithm or more general optimisation algorithms such as direct search, simulated annealing  or stochastic gradient descent using, for example, TensorFlow

Reconstruction 

The third (technical) issue is beam modulation and actual wavefront reconstruction. Masks may be printed, resulting often in a grained pattern structure since most printers can make only dots (although very small ones). Films may be developed by laser exposure. Holographic displays are currently yet a challenge (), although successful prototypes have been built. An ideal display for computer generated holograms would consist of pixels smaller than a wavelength of light with adjustable phase and brightness. Such displays have been called phased array optics. Further progress in nanotechnology is required to build them. Applications 

Currently, several companies and university departments are researching on the field of CGH devices:
 VividQ provides software for real-time CGH devices, allowing for the generation of images with over 200 depth layers using standard computing power
 MIT Media Lab has developed the "Holovideo" CGH display
 SeeReal Technologies have prototyped a CGH display
 Cortical Cafe CGH Kit is a CGH related hobbyist site with instructions, source code, and a web-application for CGH creation. In electron optics 

Recently computer-generated holography has been extended in its usage beyond light optics, and applied in generating structured electron wavefunctions with a desired amplitude and phase profile.