[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: biomaterial implant osseointegration titanium clin | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: biomaterial implant osseointegration titanium clinical]

42. Dent Mater. 2007 Jul;23(7):844-54. doi: 10.1016/j.dental.2006.06.025. Epub
2006  Aug 14.

Surface treatments of titanium dental implants for rapid osseointegration.

Le Guéhennec L(1), Soueidan A, Layrolle P, Amouriq Y.

Author information:
(1)Inserm U791, LIOAD, Osteoarticular and Dental Tissue Engineering, Faculty of 
Dental Surgery, 1 Place Alexis Ricordeau, 44042 Nantes cedex 1, France.

The osseointegration rate of titanium dental implants is related to their 
composition and surface roughness. Rough-surfaced implants favor both bone 
anchoring and biomechanical stability. Osteoconductive calcium phosphate 
coatings promote bone healing and apposition, leading to the rapid biological 
fixation of implants. The different methods used for increasing surface 
roughness or applying osteoconductive coatings to titanium dental implants are 
reviewed. Surface treatments, such as titanium plasma-spraying, grit-blasting, 
acid-etching, anodization or calcium phosphate coatings, and their corresponding 
surface morphologies and properties are described. Most of these surfaces are 
commercially available and have proven clinical efficacy (>95% over 5 years). 
The precise role of surface chemistry and topography on the early events in 
dental implant osseointegration remain poorly understood. In addition, 
comparative clinical studies with different implant surfaces are rarely 
performed. The future of dental implantology should aim to develop surfaces with 
controlled and standardized topography or chemistry. This approach will be the 
only way to understand the interactions between proteins, cells and tissues, and 
implant surfaces. The local release of bone stimulating or resorptive drugs in 
the peri-implant region may also respond to difficult clinical situations with 
poor bone quality and quantity. These therapeutic strategies should ultimately 
enhance the osseointegration process of dental implants for their immediate 
loading and long-term success.

DOI: 10.1016/j.dental.2006.06.025
PMID: 16904738 [Indexed for MEDLINE]