[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS neurology | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS neurology]

54. J Physiol. 2023 Jul;601(14):2827-2851. doi: 10.1113/JP281885. Epub 2023 Jun
8.

Motor potentials evoked by transcranial magnetic stimulation: interpreting a 
simple measure of a complex system.

Spampinato DA(1)(2)(3), Ibanez J(1)(4)(5), Rocchi L(1)(6), Rothwell J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical and Movement Neurosciences, University College London, 
London, UK.
(2)Department of Human Neurosciences, Sapienza University of Rome, Rome, Italy.
(3)Department of Clinical and Behavioral Neurology, IRCCS Santa Lucia 
Foundation, Rome, Italy.
(4)BSICoS group, I3A Institute and IIS Aragón, University of Zaragoza, Zaragoza, 
Spain.
(5)Department of Bioengineering, Centre for Neurotechnologies, Imperial College 
London, London, UK.
(6)Department of Medical Sciences and Public Health, University of Cagliari, 
Cagliari, Italy.

Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) is a non-invasive technique that is 
increasingly used to study the human brain. One of the principal outcome 
measures is the motor-evoked potential (MEP) elicited in a muscle following TMS 
over the primary motor cortex (M1), where it is used to estimate changes in 
corticospinal excitability. However, multiple elements play a role in MEP 
generation, so even apparently simple measures such as peak-to-peak amplitude 
have a complex interpretation. Here, we summarize what is currently known 
regarding the neural pathways and circuits that contribute to the MEP and 
discuss the factors that should be considered when interpreting MEP amplitude 
measured at rest in the context of motor processing and patients with 
neurological conditions. In the last part of this work, we also discuss how 
emerging technological approaches can be combined with TMS to improve our 
understanding of neural substrates that can influence MEPs. Overall, this review 
aims to highlight the capabilities and limitations of TMS that are important to 
recognize when attempting to disentangle sources that contribute to the 
physiological state-related changes in corticomotor excitability.

© 2023 The Authors. The Journal of Physiology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd 
on behalf of The Physiological Society.

DOI: 10.1113/JP281885
PMCID: PMC10952180
PMID: 37254441 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: None.