[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: Jimmy Lavender | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Jimmy Lavender — Overview

broken rib attempting to climb out of a bathtub. His next appearance was not until May 7, when he pitched two innings in relief. He regained his starting role on May 21, hurling his second complete-game victory of the season, this time against Boston. In the first game of a doubleheader on August 31, Lavender threw a no-hitter against the New York Giants, a 2–0 victory. He struck out eight batters and walked just one. At the conclusion of the season, the Cubs played the Chicago White Sox of the American League in an exhibition series. Lavender pitched a shutout in game two, but the White Sox were declared victors after winning four games to the Cubs' one. His totals for the 1915 season included 41 games pitched, a 10–16 win–loss record, a career-low 2.58 ERA, and a career-high 117 strikeouts. Though Lavender seemed to pitch well to begin the 1916 season, his record of 1–6 though June 10 was a direct contrast to his low 2.89 ERA. In his next start, against the Giants on June 14, he allowed only an infield single to Benny Kauff. The New York Sun noted that Kauff's single was as a result of a ground ball that took a bad hop and bounced away from the fielder. Lavender continued to pitch well throughout the season, both starting and in relief, culminating with a complete-game shutout against Pittsburgh on September 9, his fourth shutout of the season. However, in his last four appearances, he was credited with the loss in three, and his ERA rose from 2.05 to 2.83. His season win–loss record was 10–14 in 36 games and 188 innings pitched. Philadelphia Phillies

1917 season

On December 19, 1916, it was reported that during the NL meetings, Chicago had traded Lavender's rights to the Phillies for pitcher Al Demaree. However, it was not official until April 2, 1917, with Chicago sending an additional $5,000 to complete the deal. In March, Lavender signed with Philadelphia. He made his Philadelphia debut on April 27, pitching a complete-game victory against the Giants, allowing five hits and one run. Lavender faced his former club, the Cubs, for the first time on May 19, and pitched the last three innings for the victory. At this point in the season, he was pitching well, his ERA was 1.57 and he had a 2–1 win–loss record. He soon began to falter, giving up four earned runs in four innings against the Cubs on May 22 and losing consecutive starts against New York and Pittsburgh. Then in a start against Cincinnati, he surrendered 15 hits and seven earned runs; his ERA had now risen to 3.29. He had regained his form over the course of the months of July and August, lowering his ERA to 2.69 after his game on September 8. He lost much of his effectiveness later, however, allowing 14 hits and 10 earned runs against Boston on September 10, and three more runs against Brooklyn in five relief innings on September 13. After a short one-inning appearance on September 25, he started the game on October 3 against the Giants. He gave up five earned runs in five innings pitched and received the loss. It was his last major league appearance. In his one season with Philadelphia, he pitched in 28 games, and had a 6–8 record. His final career record was 63–76, with a 3.09 ERA and 547 strikeouts in 1,207 innings pitched. During the off-season, Philadelphia planned to trade or sell Lavender, even though he had earlier announced his retirement from the game. Philadelphia's asking price for his rights was $1,000, but they received no offers. Christy Mathewson, manager of the Reds, was reported to have had interest in Lavender, the pitcher's success against the Giants still fresh in Mathewson's mind. Though Philadelphia had a meeting with Cincinnati, Mathewson was unable to attend, and no trade discussions materialized. The San Francisco Seals of the Pacific Coast League expressed interest in Lavender, but he stressed that he was retired and that he would only consider a trade to Atlanta of the Southern Association so that he could be near his farm in Montezuma. In 1922, it was reported that he signed with Atlanta after playing well for an independent team in Dawson, Georgia. Post-baseball life
After his playing career ended, Lavender returned to Georgia and worked on his farm in Montezuma, Georgia. He died on January 12, 1960, at the age of 75, in Cartersville, Georgia, and is interred at Felton Cemetery in Montezuma. In popular culture
Author Vincent Starrett, who penned The Private Life of Sherlock Holmes, created a series of short stories featuring a gentlemanly, cultured detective named "Jimmie Lavender". Starrett stated that the name was perfect for his character, and received permission from the former pitcher for use of the name. A collection of these stories were featured in the 1944 book The Case Book of Jimmie Lavender. See also
 List of Major League Baseball no-hitters

Notes

References

External links

1884 births
1960 deaths
Baseball players from Georgia (U.S. state)
Major League Baseball pitchers
Chicago Cubs players
Philadelphia Phillies players
Cordele (minor league baseball) players
Danville Red Sox players
Holyoke Papermakers players
Providence Grays (minor league) players
People from Barnesville, Georgia
People from Montezuma, Georgia
Sportspeople from the Atlanta metropolitan area