[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: Graphene nanoribbon | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Graphene nanoribbon — Overview

zigzag GNRs are always metallic while armchairs can be either metallic or semiconducting, depending on their width. However, density functional theory (DFT) calculations show that armchair nanoribbons are semiconducting with an energy gap scaling with the inverse of the GNR width. Experiments verified that energy gaps increase with decreasing GNR width. Graphene nanoribbons with controlled edge orientation have been fabricated by scanning tunneling microscope (STM) lithography. Energy gaps up to 0.5 eV in a 2.5 nm wide armchair ribbon were reported. Armchair nanoribbons are metallic or semiconducting and present spin polarized edges. Their gap opens thanks to an unusual antiferromagnetic coupling between the magnetic moments at opposite edge carbon atoms. This gap size is inversely proportional to the ribbon width and its behavior can be traced back to the spatial distribution properties of edge-state wave functions, and the mostly local character of the exchange interaction that originates the spin polarization. Therefore, the quantum confinement, inter-edge superexchange, and intra-edge direct exchange interactions in zigzag GNR are important for its magnetism and band gap. The edge magnetic moment and band gap of zigzag GNR are reversely proportional to the electron/hole concentration and they can be controlled by alkaline adatoms. Their 2D structure, high electrical and thermal conductivity and low noise also make GNRs a possible alternative to copper for integrated circuit interconnects. Research is exploring the creation of quantum dots by changing the width of GNRs at select points along the ribbon, creating quantum confinement. Heterojunctions inside single graphene nanoribbons have been realized, among which structures that have been shown to function as tunnel barriers. Graphene nanoribbons possess semiconductive properties and may be a technological alternative to silicon semiconductors capable of sustaining microprocessor clock speeds in the vicinity of 1 THz field-effect transistors less than 10 nm wide have been created with GNR – "GNRFETs" –  with an Ion/Ioff ratio >106 at room temperature. Mechanical properties 
While it is difficult to prepare graphene nanoribbons with precise geometry to conduct the real tensile test due to the limiting resolution in nanometer scale, the mechanical properties of the two most common graphene nanoribbons (zigzag and armchair) were investigated by computational modeling using density functional theory, molecular dynamics, and finite element method. Since the two-dimensional graphene sheet with strong bonding is known to be one of the stiffest materials, graphene nanoribbons Young's modulus also has a value of over 1 TPa. The Young's modulus, shear modulus and Poisson's ratio of graphene nanoribbons are different with varying sizes (with different length and width) and shapes. These mechanical properties are anisotropic and would usually be discussed in two in-plane directions, parallel and perpendicular to the one-dimensional periodic direction. Mechanical properties here will be a little bit different from the two-dimensional graphene sheets because of the distinct geometry, bond length, and bond strength particularly at the edge of graphene nanoribbons. It is possible to tune these nanomechanical properties with further chemical doping to change the bonding environment at the edge of graphene nanoribbons. While increasing the width of graphene nanoribbons, the mechanical properties will converge to the value measured on the graphene sheets. One analysis predicted the high Young's modulus for armchair graphene nanoribbons to be around 1.24 TPa by the molecular dynamics method. They also showed the nonlinear elastic behaviors with higher-order terms in the stress-strain curve. In the higher strain region, it would need even higher-order (>3) to fully describe the nonlinear behavior. Other scientists also reported the nonlinear elasticity by the finite element method, and found that Young's modulus, tensile strength, and ductility of armchair graphene nanoribbons are all greater than those of zigzag graphene nanoribbons. Another report predicted the linear elasticity for the strain between -0.02 and 0.02 on the zigzag graphene nanoribbons by the density functional theory model. Within the linear region, the electronic properties would be relatively stable under the slightly changing geometry. The energy gaps increase from -0.02 eV to 0.02 eV for the strain between -0.02 and 0.02, which provides the feasibilities for future engineering applications. The tensile strength of the armchair graphene nanoribbons is 175 GPa with the great ductility of 30.26% fracture strain, which shows the greater mechanical properties comparing to the value of 130 GPa and 25% experimentally measured on monolayer graphene. As expected, graphene nanoribbons with smaller width would completely break down faster, since the ratio of the weaker edged bonds increased. While the tensile strain on graphene nanoribbons reached its maximum, C-C bonds would start to break and then formed much bigger rings to make materials weaker until fracture.