[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: plant alkaloid biosynthesis pathway elucidation | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: plant alkaloid biosynthesis pathway elucidation]

52. Methods Mol Biol. 2022;2505:203-221. doi: 10.1007/978-1-0716-2349-7_15.

Identification and Characterization of Transcription Factors Regulating 
Terpenoid Indole Alkaloid Biosynthesis in Catharanthus roseus.

Singh SK(1), Patra B(1), Singleton JJ(1), Liu Y(1), Paul P(1), Sui X(2), 
Suttipanta N(3), Pattanaik S(4), Yuan L(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Plant and Soil Sciences, and the Kentucky Tobacco Research and 
Development Center, University of Kentucky, Lexington, KY, USA.
(2)Tobacco Breeding and Biotechnology Research Center, Yunnan Academy of Tobacco 
Agricultural Sciences, Kunming, Yunnan, China.
(3)Department of Medicinal Chemistry, Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Ubon 
Ratchathani University, Ubonratchathani, Thailand.
(4)Department of Plant and Soil Sciences, and the Kentucky Tobacco Research and 
Development Center, University of Kentucky, Lexington, KY, USA. spatt2@uky.edu.
(5)Department of Plant and Soil Sciences, and the Kentucky Tobacco Research and 
Development Center, University of Kentucky, Lexington, KY, USA. lyuan3@uky.edu.

Biosynthesis of the therapeutically valuable terpenoid indole alkaloids (TIAs), 
in the medicinal plant Catharanthus roseus, is one of the most elaborate and 
complex metabolic processes. Although genomic and transcriptomic resources have 
significantly accelerated gene discovery in the TIA pathway, relatively few 
genes of transcription factors (TFs) have been identified and characterized thus 
far. Systematic identification of TFs and elucidation of their functions are 
crucial for understanding TIA pathway regulation. The successful discovery of 
TFs in the TIA pathway has relied mostly on three different approaches, (1) 
identification of cis-regulatory motifs (CRMs) present in the pathway gene 
promoters as they often provide clues on potential TFs that bind to the 
promoters, (2) co-expression analysis, based on the assumption that TFs 
regulating a metabolic or developmental pathway exhibit similar spatiotemporal 
expression as the pathway genes, and (3) isolation of homologs of TFs known to 
regulate structurally similar or diverse specialized metabolites in different 
plant species. TFs regulating TIA pathway have been isolated using either an 
individual or a combination of the three approaches. Here we describe 
transcriptome-based coexpression analysis and cis-element determination to 
identify TFs in C. roseus. In addition, we describe the protocols for generation 
of transgenic hairy roots, Agrobacterium infiltration of flowers, and 
electrophoretic mobility shift assay (EMSA). The methods described here are 
useful for the identification and characterization of potential TFs involved in 
the regulation of special metabolism in other medicinal plants.

© 2022. The Author(s), under exclusive license to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-0716-2349-7_15
PMID: 35732947 [Indexed for MEDLINE]