[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: Antidiabetic, antioxidant and anti-inflammatory activity of  | Type: OpenAlex-OA | Level: Graduate]

[OpenAlex | Herbal Medicine | Year: 2019 | Citations: 24]

Title: Antidiabetic, antioxidant and anti-inflammatory activity of medicinal plants collected from nearby area of Junagadh, Gujarat

Abstract:
The present study was planned to carry out phytochemical analysis and to evaluate in vitro antidiabetic, antioxidant and anti-inflammatory activities of different extracts of six medicinal plants collected from the nearby area of Junagadh, Gujarat, India, viz., Luffa echinata Roxb. (fruit), Operculina turpethum (L.) Silva Manso (leaf), Sphaeranthus indicus L. (fruit), Cressa cretica L. (leaf), Corchorus depressus L. (root) and Cassia absus (seed). An in vitro antidiabetic activity was evaluated by alpha-amylase and alpha-glucosidase inhibition methods, antioxidant activity by DPPH (2, 2-diphenyl-1-picrylhydrazyl) assay and anti-inflammatory activity by albumin denaturation assay. Hydro-alcoholic and methanolic extracts of L.echinata, water extract of C.cretica and methanolic and hydro-alcoholic extracts of C. depressus showed significant inhibition either of alpha-amylase or alpha-glucosidase or both in vitro at various concentrations. Hydro-alcoholic and methanolic extracts of L. echinata fruit and hydroalcoholic and methanolic extracts of S. indicus fruit showed significant in vitro antioxidant effect. Water extract of O. turpethum leaf showed significant anti-inflammatory activity by preventing albumin denaturation in vitro. Phytochemical analysis revealed the presence of glycosides, flavonoids, alkaloids, tannins and steroids in different extracts of medicinal plants which might be responsible for significant in vitro antidiabetic, antioxidant and antiinflammatory activities. Identification and isolation of active substances from such plants and in vivo efficacy evaluation will be helpful for further validation of pharmacological activities of these medicinal plants.