[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS neurology | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS neurology]

52. Cortex. 2024 Mar;172:141-158. doi: 10.1016/j.cortex.2023.11.020. Epub 2024
Jan  19.

Enhancing cognitive control with transcranial magnetic stimulation in 
subject-specific frontoparietal networks.

Dengler J(1), Deck BL(2), Stoll H(2), Fernandez-Nunez G(2), Kelkar AS(2), Rich 
RR(2), Erickson BA(2), Erani F(2), Faseyitan O(3), Hamilton RH(3), Medaglia 
JD(4).

Author information:
(1)School of Biomedical Engineering Science and Health Systems, Drexel 
University, Philadelphia, PA, USA.
(2)Department of Psychological & Brain Sciences, Drexel University, 
Philadelphia, PA, USA.
(3)Department of Neurology, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, USA.
(4)Department of Psychological & Brain Sciences, Drexel University, 
Philadelphia, PA, USA; Department of Neurology, University of Pennsylvania, 
Philadelphia, PA, USA. Electronic address: jdm582@drexel.edu.

BACKGROUND: Cognitive control processes, including those involving 
frontoparietal networks, are highly variable between individuals, posing 
challenges to basic and clinical sciences. While distinct frontoparietal 
networks have been associated with specific cognitive control functions such as 
switching, inhibition, and working memory updating functions, there have been 
few basic tests of the role of these networks at the individual level.
METHODS: To examine the role of cognitive control at the individual level, we 
conducted a within-subject excitatory transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) 
study in 19 healthy individuals that targeted intrinsic ("resting") 
frontoparietal networks. Person-specific intrinsic networks were identified with 
resting state functional magnetic resonance imaging scans to determine TMS 
targets. The participants performed three cognitive control tasks: an adapted 
Navon figure-ground task (requiring set switching), n-back (working memory), and 
Stroop color-word (inhibition).
OBJECTIVE: Hypothesis: We predicted that stimulating a network associated with 
externally oriented control [the "FPCN-B" (fronto-parietal control network)] 
would improve performance on the set switching and working memory task relative 
to a network associated with attention (the Dorsal Attention Network, DAN) and 
cranial vertex in a full within-subjects crossover design.
RESULTS: We found that set switching performance was enhanced by FPCN-B 
stimulation along with some evidence of enhancement in the higher-demand n-back 
conditions.
CONCLUSION: Higher task demands or proactive control might be a distinguishing 
role of the FPCN-B, and personalized intrinsic network targeting is feasible in 
TMS designs.

Copyright © 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cortex.2023.11.020
PMID: 38330778 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.