[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Complex Circuit Systems | Topic: Boolean circuit | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Boolean circuit — Overview

by a polynomial-time Turing machine with a polynomial-bounded advice function. Two subclasses of P/poly that have interesting properties in their own right are NC and AC. These classes are defined not only in terms of their circuit size but also in terms of their depth. The depth of a circuit is the length of the longest directed path from an input node to the output node. The class NC is the set of languages that can be solved by circuit families that are restricted not only to having polynomial-size but also to having polylogarithmic depth. The class AC is defined similarly to NC, however gates are allowed to have unbounded fan-in (that is, the AND and OR gates can be applied to more than two bits). NC is an important class because it turns out that it represents the class of languages that have efficient parallel algorithms. Circuit evaluation 
The Circuit Value Problem — the problem of computing the output of a given Boolean circuit on a given input string — is a P-complete decision problem. Therefore, this problem is considered to be "inherently sequential" in the sense that there is likely no efficient, highly parallel algorithm that solves the problem. Completeness 
Logic circuits are physical representation of simple logic operations, AND, OR and NOT (and their combinations, such as non-sequential flip-flops or circuit networks), that form a mathematical structure known as Boolean algebra. They are complete in sense that they can perform any deterministic algorithm. However, it just happens that this is not all there is. In the physical world we also encounter randomness, notable in small systems governed by quantization effects, which is described by theory of Quantum Mechanics. Logic circuits cannot produce any randomness, and in that sense they form an incomplete logic set. Remedy to that is found in adding an ad-hoc random bit generator to logic networks, or computers, such as in Probabilistic Turing machine. A recent work has introduced a theoretical concept of an inherently random logic circuit named random flip-flop, which completes the set. It conveniently packs randomness and is inter-operable with deterministic Boolean logic circuits. However, an algebraic structure equivalent of Boolean algebra and associated methods of circuit construction and reduction for the extended set is yet unknown. See also 
 Circuit satisfiability
 Logic gate
 Boolean logic
Switching lemma

Footnotes 

Computational complexity theory
Digital circuits
Logic in computer science