[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: MRI physics image quality artifact reduction | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: MRI physics image quality artifact reduction]

14. Adv Radiat Oncol. 2021 Sep 9;7(1):100799. doi: 10.1016/j.adro.2021.100799. 
eCollection 2022 Jan-Feb.

Combined Compressed Sensing and SENSE to Enhance Radiation Therapy Magnetic 
Resonance Imaging Simulation.

Yu VY(1), Zakian K(1), Tyagi N(1), Zhang M(2), Romesser PB(2), Dresner A(3), 
Cerviño L(1), Otazo R(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Physics, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New 
York, New York.
(2)Department of Radiation Oncology, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New 
York, New York.
(3)Philips Healthcare MR Oncology, Cleveland, Ohio.

PURPOSE: To assess the effect of a combination of compressed sensing and 
SENSitivity Encoding (SENSE) acceleration techniques on radiation therapy 
magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) simulation workflows.
METHODS AND MATERIALS: Thirty-seven acquisitions were performed with both 
SENSE-only (SENSE) and combined compressed sensing and SENSE (CS) techniques in 
24 patients receiving radiation therapy MRI simulation for a wide range of 
disease sites. The anatomic field of view prescription and image resolution were 
identical for both SENSE and CS acquisitions to ensure fair comparison. The 
acquisition time of all images was recorded to assess time savings. For each 
image pair, image quality, and ability to contour were assessed by 2 radiation 
oncologists. Aside from direct image pair comparisons, the feasibility of using 
CS to improve MRI simulation protocols by increasing image resolution, field of 
view, and reducing motion artifacts was also evaluated.
RESULTS: CS resulted in an average reduction of 27% in scan time with negligible 
changes in image quality and the ability to contour structures for RT treatment 
planning compared with SENSE. Physician scoring of image quality and ability to 
contour shows that while SENSE still has slightly better image quality compared 
with CS, this observed difference in image quality did not affect the ability to 
contour. In addition, the higher acceleration capability of CS enabled use of 
superior-inferior direction phase encoding in a sagittal 3-dimensional 
T2-weighted scan for substantially improved visibility of the prostatic urethra, 
which eliminated the need for a Foley catheter in most patients.
CONCLUSIONS: The combination of compressed sensing and parallel imaging resulted 
in marked improvements in the MRI Simulation workflow. The scan time was reduced 
without significantly affecting image quality in the context of ability to 
contour. The acceleration capabilities allowed for increased image resolution 
under similar scanning times as well as significantly improved urethra 
visualization in prostate simulations.

© 2021 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1016/j.adro.2021.100799
PMCID: PMC8569477
PMID: 34765805