[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: MRI physics image quality artifact reduction | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: MRI physics image quality artifact reduction]

48. Brain Connect. 2022 Oct;12(8):740-753. doi: 10.1089/brain.2021.0133. Epub
2022  Apr 11.

Reduction of Motion Artifacts in Functional Connectivity Resulting from 
Infrequent Large Motion.

Birn RM(1)(2), Dean DC 3rd(2)(3)(4), Wooten W(4), Planalp EM(4)(5), Kecskemeti 
S(2)(4), Alexander AL(1)(2)(4), Goldsmith HH(4)(5), Davidson RJ(1)(4)(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, 
Wisconsin, USA.
(2)Department of Medical Physics, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, 
Wisconsin, USA.
(3)Department of Pediatrics, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, 
Wisconsin, USA.
(4)Waisman Center, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, Wisconsin, USA.
(5)Department of Psychology, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, 
Wisconsin, USA.
(6)Center for Healthy Minds, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, 
Wisconsin, USA.

Introduction: Subject head motion is an ongoing challenge in functional magnetic 
resonance imaging, particularly in the estimation of functional connectivity. 
Infants (1-month old) scanned during nonsedated sleep often have occasional but 
large movements of several millimeters separated by periods with relatively 
little movement. This results in residual signal changes even after image 
realignment and can distort estimates of functional connectivity. A new motion 
correction technique, JumpCor, is introduced to reduce the effects of this 
motion and compared to other existing techniques. Methods: Different approaches 
for reducing residual motion artifacts after image realignment were compared 
both in actual and simulated data: JumpCor, regressing out the estimated subject 
motion, and regressing out the average white matter, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), 
and global signals and their temporal derivatives. Results: Motion-related 
signal changes resulting from infrequent large motion were significantly reduced 
both by regressing out the estimated motion parameters and by JumpCor. 
Furthermore, JumpCor significantly reduced artifacts and improved the quality of 
functional connectivity estimates when combined with typical preprocessing 
approaches. Discussion: Motion-related signal changes resulting from occasional 
large motion can be effectively corrected using JumpCor and to a certain extent 
also by regressing out the estimated motion. This technique should reduce the 
data loss in studies where participants exhibit this type of motion, such as 
sleeping infants.

DOI: 10.1089/brain.2021.0133
PMCID: PMC9618388
PMID: 35152725 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: R.M.B. is a consultant for NOUS Imaging, Inc., a 
company that produces the FIRMM motion monitoring software. R.J.D. is the 
founder, president, and serves on the board of directors for the non-profit 
organization, Healthy Minds Innovations, Inc.