[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Propulsion Mechanics | Topic: Gliding flight | Type: Instruction-QA | Level: Graduate]

Question: Provide a comprehensive expert-level explanation of Gliding flight in the context of Applied Sciences.

Answer:
Gliding flight is heavier-than-air flight without the use of thrust; the term volplaning also refers to this mode of flight in animals.  It is employed by gliding animals and by aircraft such as gliders. This mode of flight involves flying a significant distance horizontally compared to its descent and therefore can be distinguished from a mostly straight downward descent like a round parachute.

Although the human application of gliding flight usually refers to aircraft designed for this purpose, most powered aircraft are capable of gliding without engine power. As with sustained flight, gliding generally requires the application of an airfoil, such as the wings on aircraft or birds, or the gliding membrane of a gliding possum. However, gliding can be achieved with a flat (uncambered) wing, as with a simple paper plane, or even with card-throwing. However, some aircraft with lifting bodies and animals such as the flying snake can achieve gliding flight without any wings by creating a flattened surface underneath.

Aircraft ("gliders")

Most winged aircraft can glide to some extent, but there are several types of aircraft designed to glide:
 Glider, also known as a sailplane
 Hang glider
 Paraglider
 Speed glider
 Ram-air parachute
 Rotor kite, if untethered, known as a rotary glider, or gyroglider.
 Military glider
 Paper aeroplane
 Radio-controlled glider
 Rocket glider
 Wingsuit

The main human application is currently recreational, though during the Second World War military gliders were used for carrying troops and equipment into battle. The types of aircraft that are used for sport and recreation are classified as gliders (sailplanes), hang gliders and paragliders. These two latter types are often foot-launched. The design of all three types enables them to repeatedly climb using rising air and then to glide before finding the next source of lift.  When done in gliders (sailplanes), the sport is known as gliding and sometimes as soaring. For foot-launched aircraft, it is known as hang gliding and paragliding. Radio-controlled gliders with fixed wings are also soared by enthusiasts.

In addition to motor gliders, some powered aircraft are designed for routine glides during part of their flight; usually when landing after a period of a powered flight. These include:
 Experimental aircraft such as the North American X-15, which glided back having used their fuel
 Spacecraft such as the Space Shuttles, SpaceShipOne and the Russian Buran

Some aircraft are not designed to glide except in an emergency, such as engine failure or fuel exhaustion. See list of airline flights that required gliding flight. Gliding in a helicopter is called autorotation.

Gliding animals

Birds
A number of animals have separately evolved gliding many times, without any single ancestor. Birds in particular use gliding flight to minimise their use of energy. Large birds are notably adept at gliding, including:
 Albatross
 Condor
 Vulture
 Eagle
 Stork
 Frigatebird

Like recreational aircraft, birds can alternate periods of gliding with periods of soaring in rising air, and so spend a considerable time airborne with a minimal expenditure of energy. The great frigatebird in particular is capable of continuous flights up to several weeks.

Mammals

To assist gliding, some mammals have evolved a structure called the patagium. This is a membranous structure found stretched between a range of body parts. It is most highly developed in bats. For similar reasons to birds, bats can glide efficiently. In bats, the skin forming the surface of the wing is an extension of the skin of the abdomen that runs to the tip of each digit, uniting the forelimb with the body.  The patagium of a bat has four distinct parts:
 Propatagium: the patagium present from the neck to the first digit
 Dactylopatagium: the portion found within the digits
 Plagiopatagium: the portion found between the last digit and the hindlimbs
 Uropatagium: the posterior portion of the body between the two hindlimbs

Other mammals such as gliding possums and flying squirrels also glide using a patagium, but with much poorer efficiency than bats. They cannot gain height. The animal launches itself from a tree, spreading its limbs to expose the gliding membranes, usually to get from tree to tree in rainforests as an efficient means of both locating food and evading predators. This form of arboreal locomotion, is common in tropical regions such as Borneo and Australia, where the trees are tall and widely spaced.

In flying squirrels, the patagium stretches from the fore- to the hind-limbs along the length of each side of the torso.  In the sugar glider, the patagia extend between the fifth finger of each hand to the first toe of each foot.  This creates an aerofoil enabling them to glide 50 metres or more. This gliding flight is regulated by changing the curvature of the membrane or moving the legs and tail.

Fish, reptiles, amphibians and other gliding animals
In addition to mammals and birds, other animals notably flying fish, flying snakes, flying frogs and flying squid also glide.

The flights of flying fish are typically around 50 meters (160 ft), though they can use updrafts at the leading edge of waves to cover distances of up to .  To glide upward out of the water, a flying fish moves its tail up to 70 times per second. It then spreads its pectoral fins and tilts them slightly upward to provide lift. At the end of a glide, it folds its pectoral fins to re-enter the sea, or drops its tail into the water to push against the water to lift itself for another glide, possibly changing direction. The curved profile of the "wing" is comparable to the aerodynamic shape of a bird wing. The fish is able to increase its time in the air by flying straight into or at an angle to the direction of updrafts created by a combination of air and ocean currents.

Snakes of the genus Chrysopelea are also known by the common name "flying snake". Before launching from a branch, t