[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: herbal medicine drug interaction pharmacokinetics | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: herbal medicine drug interaction pharmacokinetics]

36. Planta Med. 2011 Mar;77(4):311-21. doi: 10.1055/s-0030-1250457. Epub 2010 Nov
3.

Effects of herbal supplements on drug glucuronidation. Review of clinical, 
animal, and in vitro studies.

Mohamed ME(1), Frye RF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacotherapy and Translational Research, College of 
Pharmacy, University of Florida, Gainesville, Florida 32610, USA.

The use of herbal supplements has increased steadily over the last decade. 
Recent surveys show that many people who take herbal supplements also take 
prescription and nonprescription drugs, increasing the risk for potential 
herb-drug interactions. While cytochrome P450-mediated herb-drug interactions 
have been extensively characterized, the effects of herbal extracts and 
constituents on UDP-glucuronosyl transferase (UGT) enzymes have not been 
adequately studied. Thus, the purpose of this review is to evaluate current 
evidence on the glucuronidation of phytochemicals and the potential for 
UGT-mediated herb-drug interactions with the top-selling herbal supplements in 
the United States and Europe. IN VITRO and animal studies indicate that 
cranberry, GINKGO BILOBA, grape seed, green tea, hawthorn, milk thistle, noni, 
soy, St. John's wort, and valerian are rich in phytochemicals that can modulate 
UGT enzymes. However, the IN VIVO consequences of these interactions are not 
well understood. Only three clinical studies have investigated the effects of 
herbal supplements on drugs cleared primarily through UGT enzymes. Evidence on 
the potential for commonly used herbal supplements to modulate UGT-mediated drug 
metabolism is summarized. Moreover, the need for further research to determine 
the clinical consequences of the described interactions is highlighted.

© Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0030-1250457
PMID: 21049395 [Indexed for MEDLINE]