[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: pharmacognosy medicinal plant active compound isol | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: pharmacognosy medicinal plant active compound isolation]

15. J Ethnopharmacol. 2021 Apr 6;269:113626. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2020.113626. Epub
 2020 Nov 25.

Exploring natural products-based cancer therapeutics derived from egyptian 
flora.

El-Seedi HR(1), Yosri N(2), Khalifa SAM(3), Guo Z(4), Musharraf SG(5), Xiao 
J(6), Saeed A(7), Du M(8), Khatib A(9), Abdel-Daim MM(10), Efferth T(11), 
Göransson U(12), Verpoorte R(13).

Author information:
(1)Pharmacognosy Group, Department of Pharmaceutical Biosciences, Uppsala 
University, Biomedical Centre, Box 574, 751 23, Uppsala, Sweden; Department of 
Chemistry, Faculty of Science, Menoufia University, 32512, Shebin El-Kom, Egypt; 
International Research Center for Food Nutrition and Safety, Jiangsu University, 
Zhenjiang, 212013, China. Electronic address: hesham.el-seedi@farmbio.uu.se.
(2)Department of Chemistry, Faculty of Science, Menoufia University, 32512, 
Shebin El-Kom, Egypt; School of Food and Biological Engineering, Jiangsu 
University, Zhenjiang, 212013, China.
(3)Department of Molecular Biosciences, Stockholm University, Wenner-Gren 
Institute, SE-106 91, Stockholm, Sweden.
(4)School of Food and Biological Engineering, Jiangsu University, Zhenjiang, 
212013, China.
(5)H.E.J. Research Institute of Chemistry, International Center for Chemical and 
Biological Sciences, University of Karachi, Karachi, 75270, Pakistan.
(6)Institute of Chinese Medical Sciences, State Key Laboratory of Quality 
Control in Chinese Medicine, University of Macau, Macau.
(7)Chemistry Department, Quaid-i-Azam University, Islamabad, 45320, Pakistan.
(8)School of Food Science and Technology, National Engineering Research Center 
of Seafood, Dalian Polytechnic University, Dalian, China.
(9)Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, Faculty of Pharmacy, International 
Islamic University Malaysia, Kuantan, 25200, Pahang, Malaysia; Faculty of 
Pharmacy, Airlangga University, Surabaya, 60155, Indonesia.
(10)Department of Zoology, College of Science, King Saud University, P.O. Box 
2455, Riyadh, 11451, Saudi Arabia; Pharmacology Department, Faculty of 
Veterinary Medicine, Suez Canal University, Ismailia, 41522, Egypt.
(11)Department of Pharmaceutical Biology, Institute of Pharmaceutical and 
Biomedical Sciences, Johannes Gutenberg University, Staudinger Weg 5, 55128, 
Mainz, Germany.
(12)Pharmacognosy Group, Department of Pharmaceutical Biosciences, Uppsala 
University, Biomedical Centre, Box 574, 751 23, Uppsala, Sweden.
(13)Natural Products Laboratory, IBL, Leiden University PO Box 9505, 2300RA, 
Leiden, the Netherlands.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Egyptian plants are a rich source of natural 
molecules, representing considerable biodiversity due to climate variations 
between the Northern, Southern, Eastern and Western regions of the country. 
Sinai is considered a precious nature reserves preserving flora, fauna, marine 
organisms, and historical habitats with ancient origins. Here, traditional 
medicinal approaches have been used for hundreds of years. Healthy lifestyles, 
low levels of stress and microbial infections, and a dependence on flora and 
herbal medicine might in combination explain why the burden of cancer is lower 
in some regions than in others.
AIM OF THE STUDY: The primary aim of this review is to document the plants and 
natural products that are used as foods and medicines in Egypt, in general, and 
in Sinai, in particular, with a focus on those with demonstrated anticancer 
activities. The documented traditional uses of these plants are described, 
together with their chemical and pharmacological activities and the reported 
outcomes of clinical trials against cancer.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A literature search was performed to identify texts 
describing the medicinal plants that are cultivated and grown in Egypt, 
including information found in textbooks, published articles, the plant list 
website (http://www.theplantlist.org/), the medicinal plant names services 
website (http://mpns.kew.org/mpns-portal/), and web databases (PubMed, Science 
Direct, and Google Scholar).
RESULTS AND DISCUSSION: We collected data for most of the plants cultivated or 
grown in Egypt that have been previously investigated for anticancer effects and 
reported their identified bioactive elements. Several plant species, belonging 
to different families and associated with 67 bioactive compounds, were 
investigated as potential anticancer agents (in vitro studies). The most potent 
cytotoxic activities were identified for the families Asteraceae, Lamiaceae, 
Chenopodiaceae, Apocynaceae, Asclepiadaceae, Euphorbiaceae, Gramineae, and 
Liliaceae. The anticancer activities of some species, such as Punica granatum 
L., Nerium oleander L., Olea europea L., Matricaria chamomilla L., Cassia 
acutifolia L., Nigella sativa L., Capsicum frutescens L., Withania somnifera L., 
and Zingiber officinale Roscoe, have been examined in clinical trials. Among the 
various Egyptian plant habitats, we found that most of these plants are grown in 
the North Sinai, New-Delta, and Giza Governorates.
CONCLUSION: In this review, we highlight the role played by Egyptian flora in 
current medicinal therapies and the possibility that these plants may be 
examined in further studies for the development of anticancer drugs. These 
bioactive plant extracts form the basis for the isolation of phytochemicals with 
demonstrated anticancer activities. Some active components derived from these 
plants have been applied to preclinical and clinical settings, including 
resveratrol, quercetin, isoquercetin, and rutin.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2020.113626
PMID: 33248183 [Indexed for MEDLINE]