[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: nanoparticle drug delivery tumor targeting cancer | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: nanoparticle drug delivery tumor targeting cancer]

77. Molecules. 2021 Apr 14;26(8):2262. doi: 10.3390/molecules26082262.

Insights into Multifunctional Nanoparticle-Based Drug Delivery Systems for 
Glioblastoma Treatment.

Khan M(1)(2), Sherwani S(3), Khan S(4), Alouffi S(2)(5), Alam M(3), Al-Motair 
K(2), Khan S(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, College of Sciences, University of Ha'il, Ha'il 
2440, Saudi Arabia.
(2)Molecular Diagnostic and Personalised Therapeutics Unit, University of Ha'il, 
Ha'il 2440, Saudi Arabia.
(3)Department of Biology, College of Sciences, University of Ha'il, Ha'il 2440, 
Saudi Arabia.
(4)Department of Basic Dental and Medical Sciences, College of Dentistry, 
University of Ha'il, Ha'il 2440, Saudi Arabia.
(5)Department of Clinical Laboratory Sciences, College of Applied Medical 
Sciences, University of Ha'il, Ha'il 2440, Saudi Arabia.
(6)Interdisciplinary Nanotechnology Centre, Aligarh Muslim University, Aligarh 
202002, U.P., India.

Glioblastoma (GB) is an aggressive cancer with high microvascular proliferation, 
resulting in accelerated invasion and diffused infiltration into the surrounding 
brain tissues with very low survival rates. Treatment options are often 
multimodal, such as surgical resection with concurrent radiotherapy and 
chemotherapy. The development of resistance of tumor cells to radiation in the 
areas of hypoxia decreases the efficiency of such treatments. Additionally, the 
difficulty of ensuring drugs effectively cross the natural blood-brain barrier 
(BBB) substantially reduces treatment efficiency. These conditions concomitantly 
limit the efficacy of standard chemotherapeutic agents available for GB. Indeed, 
there is an urgent need of a multifunctional drug vehicle system that has 
potential to transport anticancer drugs efficiently to the target and can 
successfully cross the BBB. In this review, we summarize some nanoparticle 
(NP)-based therapeutics attached to GB cells with antigens and membrane 
receptors for site-directed drug targeting. Such multicore drug delivery systems 
are potentially biodegradable, site-directed, nontoxic to normal cells and offer 
long-lasting therapeutic effects against brain cancer. These models could have 
better therapeutic potential for GB as well as efficient drug delivery reaching 
the tumor milieu. The goal of this article is to provide key considerations and 
a better understanding of the development of nanotherapeutics with good 
targetability and better tolerability in the fight against GB.

DOI: 10.3390/molecules26082262
PMCID: PMC8069805
PMID: 33919694 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.