[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: traditional Chinese medicine herbs mechanism actio | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: traditional Chinese medicine herbs mechanism action]

96. J Ethnopharmacol. 2024 Dec 5;335:118685. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2024.118685. Epub
 2024 Aug 9.

Jin-Xin-Kang alleviates heart failure by mitigating mitochondrial dysfunction 
through the Calcineurin/Dynamin-Related Protein 1 signaling pathway.

Lin L(1), Xu H(2), Yao Z(1), Zeng X(1), Kang L(1), Li Y(1), Zhou G(1), Wang 
S(1), Zhang Y(1), Cheng D(1), Chen Q(3), Zhao X(4), Li R(5).

Author information:
(1)Guangzhou University of Chinese Medicine, Guangzhou, China.
(2)Guangzhou University of Chinese Medicine, Guangzhou, China; Innovation 
Research Center, Shandong University of Chinese Medicine, Jinan, China.
(3)Department of Cardiology, Guangdong Provincial Hospital of Traditional 
Chinese Medicine, The Second Affiliated Hospital of Guangzhou University of 
Chinese Medicine, Guangzhou, Guangdong, China. Electronic address: 
050134@gzucm.edu.cn.
(4)Cardiology Center, First Affiliated Hospital of Guangzhou University of 
Traditional Chinese Medicine, Guangzhou, China; Guangdong Clinical Research 
Academy of Chinese Medicine, Guangzhou, China. Electronic address: 
zxjhwxm@sina.com.
(5)Cardiology Center, First Affiliated Hospital of Guangzhou University of 
Traditional Chinese Medicine, Guangzhou, China; Guangdong Clinical Research 
Academy of Chinese Medicine, Guangzhou, China. Electronic address: 
lrhbs@126.com.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Chronic heart failure (CHF) is a severe 
consequence of cardiovascular disease, marked by cardiac dysfunction. 
Jin-Xin-Kang (JXK) is a traditional Chinese herbal formula used for the 
treatment of CHF. This formula consists of seven medicinal herbs, including 
Ginseng (Ginseng quinquefolium (L.) Alph.Wood), Astragali Radix (Astragalus 
membranaceus (Fisch.) Bunge), Salvia miltiorrhiza (Salvia miltiorrhiza Bunge), 
Descurainiae Semen Lepidii Semen (Descurainia sophia (L.) Webb ex Prantl), 
Leonuri Herba (Leonurus japonicus Houtt.), Cinnamomi Ramulus (Cinnamomum cassia 
(L.) J.Presl), and Ilex pubescens (Ilex pubescens Hook. & Arn.). Its clinical 
efficacy has been validated through prospective randomized controlled studies. 
However, the specific mechanisms of action for this formula have yet to be 
elucidated.
AIM OF THE STUDY: This study aimed to investigate the effect of JXK on 
mitochondrial function and its mechanism in the treatment of CHF.
METHODS: JXK components were qualitatively analyzed using UPLC-Q-Orbitrap-MS. HF 
was induced in mice via transverse aortic constriction (TAC). After successful 
model establishment, lyophilized JXK-L (4.38 g/kg) and JXK-H (13.14 g/kg) were 
administered for 8 weeks. In vitro, hypertrophic myocardium was induced using 
angiotensin II (Ang II) for 48 h, followed by JXK-L and JXK-H treatment. Network 
pharmacology and molecular docking techniques were used to predict the relevant 
targets of JXK. Cardiac function, serum markers, and histopathological changes 
were evaluated to assess cardiac function. Immunofluorescence of Tomm20, 
mitochondrial membrane potential, and ROS were measured to assess mitochondrial 
dysfunction. Protein expression of calcineurin (CaN) and Drp1 in the myocardium 
was assessed by Western blot analysis.
RESULTS: We detected that the active components of JXK include terpenes, 
glycosides, flavonoids, amino acids, and alkaloids, among others. In mice with 
CHF, JXK improved cardiac function and reversed ventricular remodeling. Network 
pharmacology indicated that JXK can inhibit the calcium signaling pathway. The 
molecular docking results demonstrated that the active components of JXK 
effectively bind with CaN. Both in vitro and in vivo experiments confirmed that 
JXK regulated the CaN/Drp1 pathway and alleviated mitochondrial dysfunction.
CONCLUSION: JXK can inhibit the CaN/Drp1 pathway to improve mitochondrial 
function, and consequently treat CHF.

Copyright © 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2024.118685
PMID: 39127116 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.