[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Complex Circuit Systems | Topic: Introduction to the Doubly-Fed Induction Generator for Wind  | Type: OpenAlex-OA | Level: Graduate]

[OpenAlex | Circuit Engineering | Year: 2010 | Citations: 75]

Title: Introduction to the Doubly-Fed Induction Generator for Wind Power Applications

Abstract:
This chapter introduces the operation and control of a Doubly-fed Induction Generator (DFIG) system. The DFIG is currently the system of choice for multi-MW wind turbines. The aerodynamic system must be capable of operating over a wide wind speed range in order to achieve optimum aerodynamic efficiency by tracking the optimum tip-speed ratio. Therefore, the generator's rotor must be able to operate at a variable rotational speed. The DFIG system therefore operates in both sub-and super-synchronous modes with a rotor speed range around the synchronous speed. The stator circuit is directly connected to the grid while the rotor winding is connected via slip-rings to a three-phase converter. For variable-speed systems where the speed range requirements are small, for example 30% of synchronous speed, the DFIG offers adequate performance and is sufficient for the speed range required to exploit typical wind resources. An AC-DC-AC converter is included in the induction generator rotor circuit. The power electronic converters need only be rated to handle a fraction of the total power -the rotor power -typically about 30% nominal generator power. Therefore, the losses in the power electronic converter can be reduced, compared to a system where the converter has to handle the entire power, and the system cost is lower due to the partially-rated power electronics. This chapter will introduce the basic features and normal operation of DFIG systems for wind power applications basing the description on the standard induction generator. Different aspects that will be described include their variable-speed feature, power converters and their associated control systems, and application issues.