[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: magnetotherapy clinical evidence pain healing | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: magnetotherapy clinical evidence pain healing]

9. BMC Musculoskelet Disord. 2009 Jul 10;10:83. doi: 10.1186/1471-2474-10-83.

Pulsed electromagnetic fields after arthroscopic treatment for osteochondral 
defects of the talus: double-blind randomized controlled multicenter trial.

van Bergen CJ(1), Blankevoort L, de Haan RJ, Sierevelt IN, Meuffels DE, d'Hooghe 
PR, Krips R, van Damme G, van Dijk CN.

Author information:
(1)Orthopaedic Research Center Amsterdam, Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, 
Academic Medical Center, Amsterdam, The Netherlands. c.j.vanbergen@amc.nl

BACKGROUND: Osteochondral talar defects usually affect athletic patients. The 
primary surgical treatment consists of arthroscopic debridement and 
microfracturing. Although this is mostly successful, early sport resumption is 
difficult to achieve, and it can take up to one year to obtain clinical 
improvement. Pulsed electromagnetic fields (PEMFs) may be effective for talar 
defects after arthroscopic treatment by promoting tissue healing, suppressing 
inflammation, and relieving pain. We hypothesize that PEMF-treatment compared to 
sham-treatment after arthroscopy will lead to earlier resumption of sports, and 
aim at 25% increase in patients that resume sports.
METHODS/DESIGN: A prospective, double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled 
trial (RCT) will be conducted in five centers throughout the Netherlands and 
Belgium. 68 patients will be randomized to either active PEMF-treatment or 
sham-treatment for 60 days, four hours daily. They will be followed-up for one 
year. The combined primary outcome measures are (a) the percentage of patients 
that resume and maintain sports, and (b) the time to resumption of sports, 
defined by the Ankle Activity Score. Secondary outcome measures include 
resumption of work, subjective and objective scoring systems (American 
Orthopaedic Foot and Ankle Society--Ankle-Hindfoot Scale, Foot Ankle Outcome 
Score, Numeric Rating Scales of pain and satisfaction, EuroQol-5D), and computed 
tomography. Time to resumption of sports will be analyzed using Kaplan-Meier 
curves and log-rank tests.
DISCUSSION: This trial will provide level-1 evidence on the effectiveness of 
PEMFs in the management of osteochondral ankle lesions after arthroscopy.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Netherlands Trial Register (NTR1636).

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2474-10-83
PMCID: PMC2714496
PMID: 19591674 [Indexed for MEDLINE]