[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: nanoparticle drug delivery tumor targeting cancer | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: nanoparticle drug delivery tumor targeting cancer]

94. J Control Release. 2015 Dec 28;220(Pt B):715-26. doi: 
10.1016/j.jconrel.2015.09.040. Epub 2015 Sep 25.

Addressing challenges of heterogeneous tumor treatment through bispecific 
protein-mediated pretargeted drug delivery.

Yang Q(1), Parker CL(1), McCallen JD(1), Lai SK(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Molecular Pharmaceutics, Eshelman School of Pharmacy, University 
of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, United States.
(2)Division of Molecular Pharmaceutics, Eshelman School of Pharmacy, University 
of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, United States; UNC/NCSU Joint Department of 
Biomedical Engineering, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, United 
States. Electronic address: lai@unc.edu.

Tumors are frequently characterized by genomically and phenotypically distinct 
cancer cell subpopulations within the same tumor or between tumor lesions, a 
phenomenon termed tumor heterogeneity. These diverse cancer cell populations 
pose a major challenge to targeted delivery of diagnostic and/or therapeutic 
agents, as the conventional approach of conjugating individual ligands to 
nanoparticles is often unable to facilitate intracellular delivery to the full 
spectrum of cancer cells present in a given tumor lesion or patient. As a 
result, many cancers are only partially suppressed, leading to eventual tumor 
regrowth and/or the development of drug-resistant tumors. Pretargeting 
(multistep targeting) approaches involving the administration of 1) a cocktail 
of bispecific proteins that can collectively bind to the entirety of a mixed 
tumor population followed by 2) nanoparticles containing therapeutic and/or 
diagnostic agents that can bind to the bispecific proteins accumulated on the 
surface of target cells offer the potential to overcome many of the challenges 
associated with drug delivery to heterogeneous tumors. Despite its considerable 
success in improving the efficacy of radioimmunotherapy, the pretargeting 
strategy remains underexplored for a majority of nanoparticle therapeutic 
applications, especially for targeted delivery to heterogeneous tumors. In this 
review, we will present concepts in tumor heterogeneity, the shortcomings of 
conventional targeted systems, lessons learned from pretargeted 
radioimmunotherapy, and important considerations for harnessing the pretargeting 
strategy to improve nanoparticle delivery to heterogeneous tumors.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jconrel.2015.09.040
PMCID: PMC4688191
PMID: 26407672 [Indexed for MEDLINE]