[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: Mugwort | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Mugwort — Overview

Mugwort or biboz is a common name for several species of aromatic flowering plants in the genus Artemisia. In Europe, mugwort most often refers to the species Artemisia vulgaris, or common mugwort. In East Asia the species Artemisia argyi is often called "Chinese mugwort" in the context of traditional Chinese medicine, Ngai Chou in Cantonese or  () in Mandarin. Artemisia princeps is a mugwort known in Korea as  () and in Japan as  (). While other species are sometimes referred to by more specific common names, they may be called simply "mugwort" in many contexts. Etymology
The Anglo-Saxon Nine Herbs Charm mentions . A folk etymology, based on coincidental sounds, derives  from the word "mug"; more certainly, it has been used in flavoring drinks at least since the early Iron Age. Other sources say mugwort is derived from the Old Norse  (meaning "marsh") and German wuertz (wort in English, originally meaning "root"), which refers to its use since ancient times to repel insects, especially moths. The Old English word for mugwort is  where , could be a variation of the Old English word for "midge": . Wort comes from the Old English  (root/herb/plant), which is related to the Old High German  (root) and the Old Norse  (plant). Species
Species in the genus Artemisia called mugwort include:
 Artemisia absinthium L. — wormwood, traditionally used in the production of Absinthe. Artemisia argyi H.Lév. & Vaniot — Chinese mugwort, used in traditional Chinese medicine
 Artemisia douglasiana Besser ex Besser — Douglas mugwort or California mugwort, native to western North America
 Artemisia glacialis L. — alpine mugwort
 Artemisia granatensis Boiss. - Sierra Nevadan chamomille, endemic to the Sierra Nevada mountain range in the Iberian Peninsula
 Artemisia indica Willd. — Oriental mugwort
 Artemisia japonica Thunb. — Japanese mugwort
 Artemisia lactiflora Wall. ex DC. — white mugwort
 Artemisia norvegica Fr. — Norwegian mugwort
 Artemisia princeps Pamp. — Korean mugwort (ssuk), Japanese mugwort (yomogi), used as a culinary herb and in traditional Chinese medicine. Artemisia stelleriana Bess. — hoary mugwort
 Artemisia verlotiorum Lamotte — Chinese mugwort
 Artemisia vulgaris L. — common mugwort, used as a culinary herb and medicinally throughout the world

Uses

Mugwort has seen continuous use in many cultures throughout the world as a medicinal, spiritual, and culinary ingredient since at least the Iron Age. In contemporary culture mugwort is commonly found in foods and drinks, and remains a common ingredient in Chinese, Japanese, and Korean traditional medicine, where the leaves are used directly as a food, or to obtain oil extracts, tinctures, or burned in what is called moxibustion. The mugwort plant has been used as an anthelminthic, so it is sometimes confused with wormwood (Artemisia absinthium). The downy hairs on the underside of the leaves can be scraped off and used as effective tinder. Mugwort has also been used therapeutically to relieve sleeplessness. Food
Aromatic and slightly bitter leaves, as well as young spring shoots, can be eaten raw or cooked. The leaves and buds, best picked shortly before mugwort flowers in July to September, can be used as a bitter flavoring agent to season fat, meat and fish. Mugwort was used to flavor beer before the introduction of hops. Essential oil
The composition of mugwort essential oil can vary depending on the genus of plant selected, its habitat, as well as the part of the plant extracted and the season of its harvest. Its main components can include camphor, cineole, α- and β-thujone, artemisia ketone (CAS: 546-49-6), borneol and bornyl acetate as well as a wide variety of other phenols, terpenes, and aliphatic compounds. The presence and concentration of thujone varies largely by species, as well as the climactic, and soil conditions where the plant is grown. Insecticide 
All parts of the plant contain essential oils with all-purpose insecticidal properties (especially in the killing of insect larvae). This is best used in a weak infusion, but use on garden plants is not recommended, as it also reduces plant growth. Medicinal 
Traditional and contemporary medicinal applications vary by culture but include:
 Culinary: used for the specific purpose of aiding digestive, circulatory, and respiratory issues. Moxibustion: where the dried leaves are burned on pressure points of the body. Salve: directly applied to the body to treat bruises, itching, sores, poison ivy, eczema, body odor. Tincture or Extract: taken orally to help fevers, stomach aches, liver complications, colds and coughs. Essential Oil: studies relate various compounds within Mugwort oil to effects on blood pressure, tumor growth, and menstrual cycle, as well as anti-fungal, anti-oxidant, and antimicrobial effects. Cultural

Medieval Europe
In the European Middle Ages, mugwort was used as a magical protective herb. Mugwort was used to repel insects – especially moths – from gardens. Mugwort has also been used from ancient times as a remedy against fatigue and to protect travelers against evil spirits and wild animals.