[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Complex Circuit Systems | Topic: Photonic integrated circuit | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Photonic integrated circuit — Overview

This way, medical specialists are able to measure both cardiac output and circulating blood volume from outside the body. Another example of optical sensor technology is EFI's 'OptiGrip' device, which offers greater control over tissue feeling for minimal invasive surgery. Automotive and engineering applications PICs can be applied in sensor systems, like Lidar (which stands for light detection and ranging), to monitor the surroundings of vehicles. It can also be deployed in-car connectivity through Li-Fi, which is similar to WiFi but uses light. This technology facilitates communication between vehicles and urban infrastructure to improve driver safety. For example, some modern vehicles pick up traffic signs and remind the driver of the speed limit. In terms of engineering, fibre optic sensors can be used to detect different quantities, such as pressure, temperature, vibrations, accelerations, and mechanical strain. Sensing technology from PhotonFirst uses integrated photonics to measure things like shape changes in aeroplanes, electric vehicle battery temperature, and infrastructure strain. Agriculture and food 
Sensors play a role in innovations in agriculture and the food industry in order to reduce wastage and detect diseases. Light sensing technology powered by PICs can measure variables beyond the range of the human eye, allowing the food supply chain to detect disease, ripeness and nutrients in fruit and plants. It can also help food producers to determine soil quality and plant growth, as well as measuring  emissions. A new, miniaturised, near-infrared sensor, developed by MantiSpectra, is small enough to fit into a smartphone, and can be used to analyse chemical compounds of products like milk and plastics. Types of fabrication and materials 
The fabrication techniques are similar to those used in electronic integrated circuits, in which photolithography is used to pattern wafers for etching and material deposition. The platforms considered most versatile are indium phosphide (InP) and silicon photonics (SiPh):

 Indium phosphide (InP) PICs have active laser generation, amplification, control, and detection. This makes them an ideal component for communication and sensing applications. Silicon nitride (SiN) PICs have a vast spectral range and ultra low-loss waveguide. This makes them highly suited to detectors, spectrometers, biosensors, and quantum computers. The lowest propagation losses reported in SiN (0.1 dB/cm down to 0.1 dB/m) have been achieved by LioniX International's TriPleX waveguides. Silicon photonics (SiPh) PICs provide low losses for passive components like waveguides and can be used in minuscule photonic circuits. They are compatible with existing electronic fabrication. The term "silicon photonics" actually refers to the technology rather than the material. It combines high density photonic integrated circuits (PICs) with complementary metal oxide semiconductor (CMOS) electronics fabrication. The most technologically mature and commercially used platform is silicon on insulator (SOI). Other platforms include:

 Lithium niobate (LiNbO3) is an ideal modulator for low loss mode. It is highly effective at matching fibre input–output due to its low index and broad transparency window. For more complex PICs, lithium niobate can be formed into large crystals. As part of project ELENA, there is a European initiative to stimulate production of LiNbO3-PICs. Attempts are also being made to develop lithium niobate on insulator (LNOI). Silica has a low weight and small form factor. It is a common component of optical communication networks, such as planar light wave circuits (PLCs). Gallium arsenide (GaAS) has high electron mobility. This means GaAS transistors operate at high speeds, making them ideal analogue integrated circuit drivers for high speed lasers and modulators. By combining and configuring different chip types (including existing electronic chips) in a hybrid or heterogeneous integration, it is possible to leverage the strengths of each. Taking this complementary approach to integration addresses the demand for increasingly sophisticated energy-efficient solutions. Developers 
Public–private partnerships, such as PhotonDelta in Europe and the American Institute for Manufacturing Integrated Photonics in the United States, also provide end-to-end supply chains and ecosystems to help kickstart and scale companies working within integrated photonics. Organizations specializing in different types of fabrication and R&D:

 Smart Photonics (Netherlands) is a foundry for indium phosphide (InP)
 Ligentec (Switzerland) is a foundry for silicon nitride (SiN)
 LioniX International (Netherlands) is an organization specializing in silicon nitride (SiN)
 AMF (Singapore) and VTT (Finland) are foundries for silicon photonics (SiPh)
 GlobalFoundries (United States), and Tower Semiconductor (Israel) are foundries for silicon photonics (SiPh)
 Lightelligence, a 2017 startup that began at MIT. Salience Labs, the photonic computing company.