[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: cannabis cannabidiol therapeutic epilepsy pain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: cannabis cannabidiol therapeutic epilepsy pain]

97. Australas Psychiatry. 2019 Feb;27(1):80-85. doi: 10.1177/1039856218803675.
Epub  2018 Oct 9.

Survey of Australian psychiatrists' and psychiatry trainees' knowledge about and 
attitudes towards medicinal cannabinoids.

Jacobs NI(1), Montebello M(2), Monds LA(3), Lintzeris N(4).

Author information:
(1)Psychiatry Trainee, South Eastern Sydney Local Health District, Kogarah, NSW, 
Australia.
(2)Clinical Director and Senior Staff Specialist, Northern Sydney Local Health 
District Drug and Alcohol Services, Saint Leonards, NSW, and Conjoint Lecturer, 
National Drug and Alcohol Research Centre, University of New South Wales, 
Sydney, NSW, Australia.
(3)Research Fellow, South Eastern Sydney Local Health District Drug and Alcohol 
Services, Sydney, NSW, and; Academic Fellow, Discipline of Addiction Medicine, 
Central Clinical School, University of Sydney, Sydney, NSW, Australia.
(4)Director and Senior Staff Specialist, South Eastern Sydney Local Health 
District Drug and Alcohol Services, Sydney, NSW, and; Conjoint Professor, 
Discipline of Addiction Medicine, Central Clinical School, University of Sydney, 
Sydney, NSW, Australia.

OBJECTIVE: To assess Australian psychiatrists' and psychiatry trainees' 
knowledge about and attitudes towards medicinal cannabinoids, given the recent 
relaxation of cannabinoid-prescribing laws in Australia.
METHOD: All Australian members of the Royal Australian and New Zealand College 
of Psychiatrists were invited to participate in an anonymous, 64-item online 
questionnaire, through Royal Australian and New Zealand College of 
Psychiatrists' newsletters. The questionnaire ran for a 10-week period from 
March to May 2017. Participants were asked about their knowledge of the evidence 
for and against prescribing pharmaceutical-grade cannabidiol and 
tetrahydrocannabinol, and their concerns about prescribing medicinal 
cannabinoids.
RESULTS: In total, 88 doctors responded to the survey, with 55 completing all 
items (23 psychiatrists, 32 trainees). Overall, 54% of respondents would 
prescribe medicinal cannabinoids if it was legal to do so. Participants believed 
there was evidence for the use of cannabidiol and tetrahydrocannabinol in 
treating childhood epilepsy, chronic pain, and nausea and vomiting. They were 
most concerned about medicinal cannabinoids leading to psychotic symptoms, 
addiction and dependence, apathy and recreational use.
CONCLUSIONS: Our sample of Australian psychiatrists and trainees were aware of 
the main clinical indications for medicinal cannabinoids, but were poor at 
differentiating between the indications for cannabidiol versus 
tetrahydrocannabinol. Further education about medicinal cannabinoids appears 
necessary.

DOI: 10.1177/1039856218803675
PMID: 30298754 [Indexed for MEDLINE]