[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: Pinch (plasma physics) | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Pinch (plasma physics) — Overview

the cylinder around into a torus. Unfortunately this breaks θ symmetry, as paths on the inner portion (inboard side) of the torus are shorter than similar paths on the outer portion (outboard side). Thus, a new theory is needed. This gives rise to the famous Grad–Shafranov equation. Numerical solutions to the Grad–Shafranov equation have also yielded some equilibria, most notably that of the reversed field pinch. Three dimensions
, there is no coherent analytical theory for three-dimensional equilibria. The general approach to finding such equilibria is to solve the vacuum ideal MHD equations. Numerical solutions have yielded designs for stellarators. Some machines take advantage of simplification techniques such as helical symmetry (for example University of Wisconsin's Helically Symmetric eXperiment). However, for an arbitrary three-dimensional configuration, an equilibrium relation, similar to that of the 1-D configurations exists:

Where κ is the curvature vector defined as:

with b the unit vector tangent to B. Formal treatment

The Bennett relation
Consider a cylindrical column of fully ionized quasineutral plasma, with an axial electric field, producing an axial current density, j, and associated azimuthal magnetic field, B. As the current flows through its own magnetic field, a pinch is generated with an inward radial force density of j x B. In a steady state with forces balancing:

where ∇p is the magnetic pressure gradient, and pe and pi are the electron and ion pressures, respectively. Then using Maxwell's equation  and the ideal gas law , we derive:
 (the Bennett relation)
where N is the number of electrons per unit length along the axis, Te and Ti are the electron and ion temperatures, I is the total beam current, and k is the Boltzmann constant. The generalized Bennett relation
The generalized Bennett relation considers a current-carrying magnetic-field-aligned cylindrical plasma pinch undergoing rotation at angular frequency ω. Along the axis of the plasma cylinder flows a current density jz, resulting in an azimuthal magnetic field Βφ. Originally derived by Witalis, the generalized Bennett relation results in:

where a current-carrying, magnetic-field-aligned cylindrical plasma has a radius a,
J0 is the total moment of inertia with respect to the z axis,
W⊥kin is the kinetic energy per unit length due to beam motion transverse to the beam axis
WBz is the self-consistent Bz energy per unit length
WEz is the self-consistent Ez energy per unit length
Wk is thermokinetic energy per unit length
I(a) is the axial current inside the radius a (r in diagram)
N(a) is the total number of particles per unit length
Er is the radial electric field
Eφ is the rotational electric field
The positive terms in the equation are expansional forces while the negative terms represent beam compressional forces. The Carlqvist relation
The Carlqvist relation, published by Per Carlqvist in 1988, is a specialization of the generalized Bennett relation (above), for the case that the kinetic pressure is much smaller at the border of the pinch than in the inner parts. It takes the form

and is applicable to many space plasmas. The Carlqvist relation can be illustrated (see right), showing the total current (I) versus the number of particles per unit length (N) in a Bennett pinch. The chart illustrates four physically distinct regions. The plasma temperature is quite cold (Ti = Te = Tn = 20 K), containing mainly hydrogen with a mean particle mass 3×10−27 kg. The thermokinetic energy Wk >> πa2 pk(a). The curves, ΔWBz show different amounts of excess magnetic energy per unit length due to the axial magnetic field Bz. The plasma is assumed to be non-rotational, and the kinetic pressure at the edges is much smaller than inside. Chart regions: (a) In the top-left region, the pinching force dominates. (b) Towards the bottom, outward kinetic pressures balance inwards magnetic pressure, and the total pressure is constant. (c) To the right of the vertical line ΔWBz = 0, the magnetic pressures balances the gravitational pressure, and the pinching force is negligible. (d) To the left of the sloping curve ΔWBz = 0, the gravitational force is negligible. Note that the chart shows a special case of the Carlqvist relation, and if it is replaced by the more general Bennett relation, then the designated regions of the chart are not valid. Carlqvist further notes that by using the relations above, and a derivative, it is possible to describe the Bennett pinch, the Jeans criterion (for gravitational instability, in one and two dimensions), force-free magnetic fields, gravitationally balanced magnetic pressures, and continuous transitions between these states. References in culture
A fictionalized pinch-generating device was used in Ocean's Eleven, where it was used to disrupt Las Vegas's power grid just long enough for the characters to begin their heist. See also
Electromagnetic forming
Explosively pumped flux compression generator
Fusion power
List of plasma physics articles
Madison Symmetric Torus (reversed field pinch)

References

External links
Examples of electromagnetically shrunken coins and crushed cans
Theory of electromagnetic coin shrinking
The Known History of "Quarter Shrinking"
Can crushing info using electromagnetism among other things
The MAGPIE project at Imperial College London is used to study wire array Z-pinch implosions.