[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: natural product antibiotic drug discovery | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: natural product antibiotic drug discovery]

28. J Ind Microbiol Biotechnol. 2024 Jan 9;51:kuae011. doi: 10.1093/jimb/kuae011.

Harnessing regulatory networks in Actinobacteria for natural product discovery.

Augustijn HE(1)(2), Roseboom AM(2), Medema MH(1)(2), van Wezel GP(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Bioinformatics Group, Wageningen University, Wageningen, The Netherlands.
(2)Molecular Biotechnology, Institute of Biology, Leiden University, Leiden, The 
Netherlands.
(3)Netherlands Institute for Ecology (NIOO-KNAW), Wageningen, The Netherlands.

Microbes typically live in complex habitats where they need to rapidly adapt to 
continuously changing growth conditions. To do so, they produce an astonishing 
array of natural products with diverse structures and functions. Actinobacteria 
stand out for their prolific production of bioactive molecules, including 
antibiotics, anticancer agents, antifungals, and immunosuppressants. Attention 
has been directed especially towards the identification of the compounds they 
produce and the mining of the large diversity of biosynthetic gene clusters 
(BGCs) in their genomes. However, the current return on investment in random 
screening for bioactive compounds is low, while it is hard to predict which of 
the millions of BGCs should be prioritized. Moreover, many of the BGCs for yet 
undiscovered natural products are silent or cryptic under laboratory growth 
conditions. To identify ways to prioritize and activate these BGCs, knowledge 
regarding the way their expression is controlled is crucial. Intricate 
regulatory networks control global gene expression in Actinobacteria, governed 
by a staggering number of up to 1000 transcription factors per strain. This 
review highlights recent advances in experimental and computational methods for 
characterizing and predicting transcription factor binding sites and their 
applications to guide natural product discovery. We propose that 
regulation-guided genome mining approaches will open new avenues toward 
eliciting the expression of BGCs, as well as prioritizing subsets of BGCs for 
expression using synthetic biology approaches.
ONE-SENTENCE SUMMARY: This review provides insights into advances in 
experimental and computational methods aimed at predicting transcription factor 
binding sites and their applications to guide natural product discovery.

© The Author(s) 2024. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Society 
of Industrial Microbiology and Biotechnology.

DOI: 10.1093/jimb/kuae011
PMCID: PMC10996143
PMID: 38569653 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: M.H.M. is a member of the scientific advisory 
board of Hexagon Bio. The other authors declare no conflict of interests.