[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: The place of phytotherapy in the treatment of acute upper re | Type: OpenAlex-OA | Level: Graduate]

[OpenAlex | Herbal Medicine | Year: 2022 | Citations: 2]

Title: The place of phytotherapy in the treatment of acute upper respiratory tract infections

Abstract:
Phytotherapy is based on the use of herbal medicines. Treatment with phytopreparations is characterized by efficiency, low risk of adverse events and the ability to enhance the effect of complex therapy. Herbal preparations are subject to standard requirements for quality control, safety and effectiveness. Inflammatory diseases of the respiratory tract are characterized by numerous symptoms that significantly reduce the quality of life of the patient. Along with pathogenetic therapy, symptomatic treatment is used. For the treatment of respiratory diseases, phytopreparations with antipyretic, immunomodulatory, anti-inflammatory, antitussive, mucolytic, bronchodilator and other clinically proven effects are used. The most common symptom of inflammatory diseases of the respiratory tract is cough. Many medicinal plants have antitussive effects. Ivy leaf extract has pronounced antitussive and mucolytic properties. The therapeutic effects of ivy are primarily due to the presence of saponins in its composition. Numerous randomized controlled trials have proven the efficacy and safety of H. Helix-based drugs in the treatment of cough in adults. A meta-analysis conducted by Barnes LA et al revealed that monopreparations and combined phytopreparations, including H. Helix, reduce the frequency and intensity of cough caused by viral respiratory infection. In a study involving 5,162 children, efficacy in the treatment of productive cough in children was proven. Currently, there are several medicines based on ivy leaves in liquid and solid forms on the pharmaceutical market of Russia. It leading position in sales of mucolytic agents of plant origin in Russia, due to its high efficiency and low frequency of adverse events.