[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: ethnobotany traditional medicine biological activi | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: ethnobotany traditional medicine biological activity]

58. J Ethnopharmacol. 2021 Aug 10;276:114125. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2021.114125.
Epub  2021 May 4.

A review of the botany, traditional uses, phytochemistry, and pharmacology of 
the Flos Inulae.

Yang L(1), Wang X(1), Hou A(1), Zhang J(1), Wang S(1), Man W(1), Yu H(1), Zheng 
S(1), Wang Q(2), Jiang H(3), Kuang H(4).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Chinese Materia Medica, Heilongjiang University of Chinese 
Medicine, Ministry of Education, Harbin, 150040, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Chinese Materia Medica, Heilongjiang University of Chinese 
Medicine, Ministry of Education, Harbin, 150040, China; School of Traditional 
Chinese Medicine, Guangdong Pharmaceutical University, Guangzhou, 528458, China.
(3)Key Laboratory of Chinese Materia Medica, Heilongjiang University of Chinese 
Medicine, Ministry of Education, Harbin, 150040, China. Electronic address: 
jianghai_777@126.com.
(4)Key Laboratory of Chinese Materia Medica, Heilongjiang University of Chinese 
Medicine, Ministry of Education, Harbin, 150040, China. Electronic address: 
hxkuang56@163.com.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Plants of the genus Inula have long been used as 
an ethnomedicine in Asia, Europe, and North America for its high medicinal value 
and health benefits. Inula japonica Thunb. (I. japonica) and Inula britanica L. 
(I. britanica) are included in Chinese Pharmacopoeia (2020 edition) as the 
traditional Chinese medicine Flos inulae (FI). In TCM, FI tastes bitter, 
pungent, and salt, with warm nature and has the functions of water removal, 
reduction in nausea, and prevention of vomiting and is often used for 
cold-related coughs, sputum, wheezing coughs, vomiting, belching and other 
related diseases. In addition, Inula japonica Thunb is used as a botanical 
medicine in Korea and Inula britannica L. is also used as a traditional plant 
medicine in Iran.
AIM OF THE STUDY: This paper collects the relevant research literature 
(1970-2021) and provides a systematic summary of the botany, ethnopharmacology, 
processing, phytochemistry, pharmacology, toxicity, analytical methods and 
quality control of FI to explore its potential and expand its scope for better 
clinical application.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Information on Inula japonica Thunb. and Inula britanica 
L. was collected from scientific databases (1970-2021), including Google 
Scholar, Baidu Scholar, Springer, PubMed, CNKI and Wan Fang DATA. Information 
was also collected from classic books of Chinese herbal medicine and Ph.D. and 
M.Sc. theses.
RESULTS: More than 200 chemical compounds have been isolated from Inula japonica 
Thunb. and Inula britanica L., including sesquiterpenes, flavonoids, volatile 
oils, triterpenoids, diterpenoid glycosides, monoterpenoids, polysaccharides, 
steroid and small molecule acids. Based on a wide variety of chemically active 
ingredients, FI has a wide range of pharmacological effects. Modern 
pharmacological research has proven that the pharmacological effects of FI 
include anti-inflammatory, antitumor, antioxidant, antiallergy, antidiabetic, 
blood lipid reduction, skin whitening, liver protection, anticonstipation, and 
antinociceptive effects.
CONCLUSIONS: FI is a very important traditional Chinese herbal medicine with 
anti-inflammatory antitumor, antioxidant, antiallergy, antidiabetic and other 
pharmacological effects that can treat a variety of related diseases. This paper 
summarizes the botany, ethnopharmacology, processing, phytochemistry, 
pharmacology, toxicity, analytical methods, and quality control of FI. However, 
the research on the processing, toxicity and quality control of FI is currently 
too shallow, especially concerning the relationship between the changes in 
active components before and after processing and the changes in its 
pharmacological action, which remains unclear. There are few toxicity 
experiments conducted with FI, so it is impossible to evaluate the safety of FI 
objectively and impartially. There are also few studies on the material basis 
and doses of FI causing toxicity and side effects, and more in-depth and 
concrete researches should be carried out in the future regarding these aspects. 
Furthermore, to ensure effective and safe clinical medication, we should also 
pay attention to the mixed use of FI in various regions of China to control the 
quality of the FI plant.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2021.114125
PMID: 33961997 [Indexed for MEDLINE]