[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: traditional Chinese medicine herbs mechanism actio | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: traditional Chinese medicine herbs mechanism action]

17. Int Rev Neurobiol. 2017;135:97-115. doi: 10.1016/bs.irn.2017.02.006. Epub
2017  Apr 3.

Treatment of Insomnia With Traditional Chinese Herbal Medicine.

Singh A(1), Zhao K(2).

Author information:
(1)Traditional Chinese Herbal Medicine Programme, Middlesex University, The 
Borough, Hendon, London, United Kingdom.
(2)Traditional Chinese Herbal Medicine Programme, Middlesex University, The 
Borough, Hendon, London, United Kingdom. Electronic address: k.zhao@mdx.ac.uk.

Insomnia is a condition with sleep problems and many people suffered from it. 
Chronic insomnia can last for long time and it will severely affect people's 
health and the quality of life. In conventional medicine, the most commonly used 
the medicine is benzodiazepine. It is effective but also has significant side 
effects. Patients try to use some kinds of alternative medicines. Chinese 
medicinal herbs and formulas have been used in the treatment of insomnia for 
more than 2000 years in China. In recent decades, Chinese herbal medicine has 
been widely used in the Western countries. Many clinical studies including 
randomized controlled clinical trials and research on pharmacological action 
mechanisms of the herbs for treatment of insomnia have been conducted. It is 
very important and very helpful to review the published research papers to 
gather the available information for a critical analysis. This chapter evaluated 
the data from both of clinical studies and pharmacological researches on the 
therapeutic formulas and on some key herbs used in the treatment of insomnia. 
Clinical studies showed a very wide spectrum of herbs that were used in clinical 
treatment of insomnia. This was due to different syndrome patterns happened with 
insomnia. This brought complexity and difficulties to identify which are the 
essential key herbs or formulas. It was found Suanzaoren decoction (Ziziphus 
spinose decoction ) is the most frequently used formula for the treatment of 
insomnia. Based on the clinical data, several herbs were identified as most 
frequently used sedative and hypnotic herbs in Chinese herbal medicine including 
Suanzaoren (Ziziphus spinose ), Fuling (Poria cocos ), and Gancao (Glycyrrhiza 
uralensis ). The underlying pharmacological action mechanisms discovered in the 
studies on some key herbs used in the treatment of insomnia were evaluated. The 
major pharmacological action mechanisms shared by most of the sedative herbs are 
to act through the neurotransmitter gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) or via 
stimulation of GABAAA receptor. Some herbs exert sedative activities via 
inhibition of 5-hydroxytryptamine 1A receptor. Another mechanism shown by some 
herbs is to upregulate the expression of orexin-A, leptin, orexin receptor-1, 
and leptin receptor in the brain, reducing insomnia-induced negative 
consequences, and thus indirectly help improvement of insomnia.

© 2017 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/bs.irn.2017.02.006
PMID: 28807167 [Indexed for MEDLINE]