[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: traditional Chinese medicine herbs mechanism actio | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: traditional Chinese medicine herbs mechanism action]

91. Chin Med. 2024 Aug 9;19(1):105. doi: 10.1186/s13020-024-00962-6.

Shirebi granules ameliorate acute gouty arthritis by inhibiting NETs-induced 
imbalance between immunity and inflammation.

Li X(#)(1), Mao X(#)(1), Jiang H(1), Xia C(1), Fu L(1), Gao W(1), Chen W(1), Li 
W(1), Wang P(1), Zhang Y(2), Xu H(3).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory for Quality Ensurance and Sustainable Use of Dao-di 
Herbs, Institute of Chinese Materia Medica, China Academy of Chinese Medical 
Sciences, Beijing, 100700, People's Republic of China.
(2)State Key Laboratory for Quality Ensurance and Sustainable Use of Dao-di 
Herbs, Institute of Chinese Materia Medica, China Academy of Chinese Medical 
Sciences, Beijing, 100700, People's Republic of China. yqzhang@icmm.ac.cn.
(3)State Key Laboratory for Quality Ensurance and Sustainable Use of Dao-di 
Herbs, Institute of Chinese Materia Medica, China Academy of Chinese Medical 
Sciences, Beijing, 100700, People's Republic of China. hyxu@icmm.ac.cn.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Acute gouty arthritis (AGA) is classified as 'arthritis' in 
traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) theory. Shirebi granules (SGs), derived from 
the classic prescription SiMiaoWan, exerts satisfying therapeutic efficacy in 
ameliorating AGA clinically. However, the underlying mechanisms of SGs against 
AGA remain unclarified.
METHODS: AGA-related biological processes, signal pathways and biomarker genes 
were mined from the GEO database through bioinformatics. SGs components were 
systematically recognized using the UPLC-Q-TOF-MS/MS. A correlation network was 
established based on the biomarker genes and the chemical components, from which 
the signal pathway used for further study was selected. Finally, we established 
an AGA model using SD rats injected with monosodium urate (MSU) in the ankle 
joint for experimental validation. A combination of behavioral tests, H&E, 
safranin O- fast green, western blotting, and immunofluorescence were employed 
to reveal the mechanism of action of SGs on AGA.
RESULTS: The deterioration of AGA was significantly related to the imbalance 
between immunity and inflammation, neutrophil chemotaxis and inflammatory factor 
activation. HDAC5, PRKCB, NFκB1, MPO, PRKCA, PIK3CA were identified to be the 
candidate targets of SGs against AGA, associated with neutrophil extracellular 
traps (NETs) signal pathway. Animal experiments demonstrated that SGs 
effectively repaired cartilage damage, blocked TLR4 activation, and inhibited 
the expression of NETs indicators and inflammatory factors. In addition, SGs 
prominently alleviated joint redness and swelling, improved joint dysfunction, 
inhibited inflammatory infiltration of AGA rats.
CONCLUSION: Our data reveal that SGs may effectively alleviate the disease 
severity of AGA by suppressing NETs-promoted imbalance between immunity and 
inflammation.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13020-024-00962-6
PMCID: PMC11312299
PMID: 39123236

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no known 
competing commercial or financial relationships that could influence the work 
reported in this article.