[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: pharmacognosy medicinal plant active compound isol | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: pharmacognosy medicinal plant active compound isolation]

81. J Ethnopharmacol. 2021 Mar 1;267:113593. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2020.113593. Epub
 2020 Nov 18.

Gmelina arborea- an indigenous timber species of India with high medicinal 
value: A review on its pharmacology, pharmacognosy and phytochemistry.

Warrier RR(1), Priya SM(2), Kalaiselvi R(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Plant Biotechnology and Cytogenetics, Institute of Forest 
Genetics and Tree Breeding, PB No. 1061, RS Puram, Coimbatore, 641 002, India. 
Electronic address: rekha@icfre.org.
(2)Department of Plant Biotechnology and Cytogenetics, Institute of Forest 
Genetics and Tree Breeding, PB No. 1061, RS Puram, Coimbatore, 641 002, India.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL SIGNIFICANCE: Gmelina arborea Roxb.ex Smith, a fast-growing 
deciduous tree belongs to the family Lamiaceae, and is an important plantation 
species in many tropical areas around the world. The species is naturally 
distributed in semi-deciduous forests in tropical/subtropical regions of South 
East Asia. The tree is also an important medicinal plant in the Indian Systems 
of Medicine. The whole plant is used in medicine. It is astringent, bitter, 
digestive, cardiotonic, diuretic, laxative and pulmonary and nervine tonic. It 
improves digestion, memory, helps overcome giddiness and is useful in burning 
sensation, fever, thirst, emaciation, heart diseases, nervous disorders and 
piles. The roots are acrid, bitter-sweet in taste, stomachic, tonic, laxative, 
galactagogue and antihelmintic. The flowers are sweet, refrigerant, bitter, 
astringent and acrid, and are used in treating leprosy and skin diseases. The 
fruits are acrid, sour, sweet, refrigerant, bitter, astringent, aphrodisiac, 
trichogenous, alterant and tonic. Fruits are edible and also used for promoting 
hair growth and in treating anaemia, leprosy, ulcers, constipation, leucorrhoea 
and colitis. The leaves are a good fodder also. The major bioactive compounds 
extracted from different parts of G. arborea are arboreal, verbascoside, 
tyrosol, iridoids, phenylpropanoid glycoside, premnazole, martynoside, iridoid 
glycosides, balanophonin, gmelinol, isoarboreol apigenin, umbelliferone etc. AIM 
OF THE REVIEW: This review provides an insight into the medicinal aspects of G. 
arborea. It provides the latest information on phytochemistry, pharmacological 
activities and traditional uses of G.arborea.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Information on G. arborea was gathered from various 
sources like textbooks, literature, databases such as PubMed, Science Direct, 
Wiley, Springer, Taylor and Francis, Scopus, Inflibnet, Sci-Finder and Google 
Scholar.
RESULTS: Sixty-nine phytochemicals which include lignans, acylated iridoid 
glycosides, acylated rhamnopyranoses, flavonoids, flavones, flavone glycosides 
have been isolated. Many of them have been characterized for their 
pharmacological activity. Several researchers have identified bioactive 
phytochemicals like luteolin, iridoid alkaloids from the leaves, hentriacontanol 
and lignans such as arboreol, isoarboreol, arborone, gmelanone, gummadiol from 
the heartwood, flavon glycosides in roots. The extracts are reported to have 
wound-healing and antidiarrheal properties. Various studies demonstrated that 
G.arborea and its constituents possess several pharmacological activities like 
anti-oxidant, anti-diabetic, anti-inflammatory, antiulcer, analgesic, 
anti-nociceptive, anticancer and wound healing activities.
CONCLUSION: G. arborea is a valuable medicinal plant used traditionally in the 
Indian Systems of Medicine (ISM - Ayurveda and Unani) to treat a wide variety of 
ailments. These phytochemicals are highly bioactive and exhibit various 
pharmacological activities. However, pharmacological activities of many 
compounds which have been identified, are yet to be understood.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2020.113593
PMID: 33217516 [Indexed for MEDLINE]