[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: MRI physics image quality artifact reduction | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: MRI physics image quality artifact reduction]

94. Brain Connect. 2015 Nov;5(9):582-95. doi: 10.1089/brain.2014.0321. Epub 2015
Sep  28.

Using Edge Voxel Information to Improve Motion Regression for rs-fMRI 
Connectivity Studies.

Patriat R(1), Molloy EK(2)(3), Birn RM(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)1 Department of Medical Physics, University of Wisconsin-Madison , Madison, 
Wisconsin.
(2)2 Department of Psychiatry, University of Wisconsin-Madison , Madison, 
Wisconsin.
(3)3 Department of Computer Science, University of Illinois-Urbana-Champaign , 
Urbana, Illinois.

Recent fMRI studies have outlined the critical impact of in-scanner head motion, 
particularly on estimates of functional connectivity. Common strategies to 
reduce the influence of motion include realignment as well as the inclusion of 
nuisance regressors, such as the 6 realignment parameters, their first 
derivatives, time-shifted versions of the realignment parameters, and the 
squared parameters. However, these regressors have limited success at noise 
reduction. We hypothesized that using nuisance regressors consisting of the 
principal components (PCs) of edge voxel time series would be better able to 
capture slice-specific and nonlinear signal changes, thus explaining more 
variance, improving data quality (i.e., lower DVARS and temporal SNR), and 
reducing the effect of motion on default-mode network connectivity. Functional 
MRI data from 22 healthy adult subjects were preprocessed using typical motion 
regression approaches as well as nuisance regression derived from edge voxel 
time courses. Results were evaluated in the presence and absence of both global 
signal regression and motion censoring. Nuisance regressors derived from signal 
intensity time courses at the edge of the brain significantly improved motion 
correction compared to using only the realignment parameters and their 
derivatives. Of the models tested, only the edge voxel regression models were 
able to eliminate significant differences in default-mode network connectivity 
between high- and low-motion subjects regardless of the use of global signal 
regression or censoring.

DOI: 10.1089/brain.2014.0321
PMCID: PMC4652211
PMID: 26107049 [Indexed for MEDLINE]