[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: cannabis cannabidiol therapeutic epilepsy pain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: cannabis cannabidiol therapeutic epilepsy pain]

93. Cannabis Cannabinoid Res. 2016 Dec 1;1(1):244-251. doi:
10.1089/can.2016.0024.  eCollection 2016.

Training and Practices of Cannabis Dispensary Staff.

Haug NA(1)(2), Kieschnick D(1), Sottile JE(3), Babson KA(4), Vandrey R(5), 
Bonn-Miller MO(4)(6)(7)(8).

Author information:
(1)PGSP-Stanford Psy.D. Consortium, Palo Alto University, Palo Alto, California.
(2)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Stanford University School 
of Medicine, Stanford, California.
(3)Pacific Graduate School of Psychology, Palo Alto University, Palo Alto, 
California.
(4)National Center for PTSD, VA Palo Alto Healthcare System, Palo Alto, 
California.
(5)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Johns Hopkins University 
School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland.
(6)Center for Innovation to Implementation, VA Palo Alto Healthcare System, Palo 
Alto, California.
(7)Center of Excellence in Substance Abuse Treatment and Education, Philadelphia 
VAMC, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.
(8)Department of Psychiatry, University of Pennsylvania Perelman School of 
Medicine, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.

Introduction: The proliferation of cannabis dispensaries within the United 
States has emerged from patient demand for the legalization of cannabis as an 
alternative treatment for a number of conditions and symptoms. Unfortunately, 
nothing is known about the practices of dispensary staff with respect to 
recommendation of cannabis strains/concentrations for specific patient ailments. 
To address this limitation, the present study assessed the training and 
practices of cannabis dispensary staff. Materials and Methods: Medical and 
nonmedical dispensary staff (n=55) were recruited via e-mail and social media to 
complete an online survey assessing their demographic characteristics, 
dispensary features, patient characteristics, formal training, and cannabis 
recommendation practices. Results: Fifty-five percent of dispensary staff 
reported some formal training for their position, with 20% reporting 
medical/scientific training. A majority (94%) indicated that they provide 
specific cannabis advice to patients. In terms of strains, dispensary staff 
trended toward recommendations of Indica for anxiety, chronic pain, insomnia, 
nightmares, and Tourette's syndrome. They were more likely to recommend Indica 
and hybrid plants for post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD)/trauma and muscle 
spasms. In contrast, staff were less likely to recommend Indica for depression; 
hybrid strains were most often recommended for amyotrophic lateral sclerosis 
(ALS). In terms of cannabinoid concentrations, dispensary staff were most likely 
to recommend a 1:1 ratio of delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC):cannabidiol (CBD) 
for patients suffering from anxiety, Crohn's disease, hepatitis C, and 
PTSD/trauma, while patients seeking appetite stimulation were most likely to be 
recommended THC. Staff recommended high CBD for arthritis and Alzheimer's 
disease and a high CBD or 1:1 ratio for ALS, epilepsy, and muscle spasms. 
Conclusions: Although many dispensary staff are making recommendations 
consistent with current evidence, some are recommending cannabis that has either 
not been shown effective for, or could exacerbate, a patient's condition. 
Findings underscore the importance of consistent, evidence-based, training of 
dispensary staff who provide specific recommendations for patient medical 
conditions.

DOI: 10.1089/can.2016.0024
PMCID: PMC5531366
PMID: 28861496

Conflict of interest statement: Drs. Bonn-Miller and Vandrey serve as 
consultants for CW Botanicals, Insys Therapeutics, and Zynerba Pharmaceuticals. 
Dr. Bonn-Miller also consults for Tilray (a division of Privateer Holdings). Dr. 
Babson served as a consultant for Insys Therapeutics. None of the above entities 
was involved with the design, implementation, analysis, or dissemination of the 
present study. The expressed views do not necessarily represent those of the 
Department of Veterans Affairs.