[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: magnetic resonance spectroscopy metabolite brain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: magnetic resonance spectroscopy metabolite brain]

25. Neurosci Biobehav Rev. 2024 Jul;162:105728. doi: 
10.1016/j.neubiorev.2024.105728. Epub 2024 May 23.

Neurometabolite differences in Autism as assessed with Magnetic Resonance 
Spectroscopy: A systematic review and meta-analysis.

Thomson AR(1), Pasanta D(2), Arichi T(3), Puts NA(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Forensic and Neurodevelopmental Sciences, King's College 
London, UK; MRC Centre for Neurodevelopmental Disorders, King's College 
London, UK; Centre for the Developing Brain, King's College London, London, UK.
(2)Department of Forensic and Neurodevelopmental Sciences, King's College 
London, UK.
(3)MRC Centre for Neurodevelopmental Disorders, King's College London, UK; 
Centre for the Developing Brain, King's College London, London, UK.
(4)Department of Forensic and Neurodevelopmental Sciences, King's College 
London, UK; MRC Centre for Neurodevelopmental Disorders, King's College 
London, UK. Electronic address: nicolaas.puts@kcl.ac.uk.

1H-Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy (MRS) is a non-invasive technique that can be 
used to quantify the concentrations of metabolites in the brain in vivo. MRS 
findings in the context of autism are inconsistent and conflicting. We performed 
a systematic review and meta-analysis of MRS studies measuring glutamate and 
gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), as well as brain metabolites involved in energy 
metabolism (glutamine, creatine), neural and glial integrity (e.g. n-acetyl 
aspartate (NAA), choline, myo-inositol) and oxidative stress (glutathione) in 
autism cohorts. Data were extracted and grouped by metabolite, brain region and 
several other factors before calculation of standardised effect sizes. Overall, 
we find significantly lower concentrations of GABA and NAA in autism, indicative 
of disruptions to the balance between excitation/inhibition within brain 
circuits, as well as neural integrity. Further analysis found these alterations 
are most pronounced in autistic children and in limbic brain regions relevant to 
autism phenotypes. Additionally, we show how study outcome varies due to 
demographic and methodological factors , emphasising the importance of 
conforming with standardised consensus study designs and transparent reporting.

Copyright © 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neubiorev.2024.105728
PMCID: PMC11602446
PMID: 38796123 [Indexed for MEDLINE]