[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: magnetic resonance spectroscopy metabolite brain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: magnetic resonance spectroscopy metabolite brain]

1. Mol Psychiatry. 2022 Aug;27(8):3223-3236. doi: 10.1038/s41380-022-01594-8.
Epub  2022 May 4.

Brain metabolite alterations related to alcohol use: a meta-analysis of proton 
magnetic resonance spectroscopy studies.

Kirkland AE(1), Browning BD(2), Green R(3), Leggio L(4), Meyerhoff DJ(5), 
Squeglia LM(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Medical University of South 
Carolina, Charleston, SC, USA. kirklaan@musc.edu.
(2)Department of Neuroscience, Medical University of South Carolina, Charleston, 
SC, USA.
(3)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Medical University of South 
Carolina, Charleston, SC, USA.
(4)National Institutes of Health, NIDA and NIAAA, Baltimore, MD, USA.
(5)Department of Radiology and Biomedical Imaging, University of California San 
Francisco and VA Medical Center, San Francisco, CA, USA.

Alcohol misuse and alcohol use disorder (AlUD) have neurobiological 
consequences. This meta-analysis of proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) 
studies aimed to assess the differences in brain metabolite levels in alcohol 
misuse and AUD relative to controls (PROSPERO registration: CRD42020209890). 
Hedge's g with random-effects modeling was used. Sub-group and meta-regression 
techniques explored potential sources of demographic and MRS parameter 
heterogeneity. A comprehensive literature review identified 43 studies, 
resulting in 69 models across gray and white matter (GM, WM). Lower 
N-acetylaspartate levels were found in frontal, anterior cingulate cortex (ACC), 
hippocampal, and cerebellar GM, and frontal and parietal WM, suggesting 
decreased neuronal and axonal viability. Lower choline-containing metabolite 
levels (all metabolites contributing to choline peak) were found in frontal, 
temporal, thalamic, and cerebellar GM, and frontal and parietal WM, suggesting 
membrane alterations related to alcohol misuse. Lower creatine-containing 
metabolite levels (Cr; all metabolites contributing to Cr peak) were found in 
temporal and occipital cortical GM, while higher levels were noted in 
midbrain/brainstem GM; this finding may have implications for using Cr as an 
internal reference. The lack of significant group differences in 
glutamate-related levels is possibly related to biological and methodological 
complexities. The few studies reporting on GABA found lower levels restricted to 
the ACC. Confounding variables were age, abstinence duration, treatment status, 
and MRS parameters (echo time, quantification type, data quality). This first 
meta-analysis of proton MRS studies consolidates the numerous individual studies 
to identify neurometabolite alterations within alcohol misuse and AUD. Future 
studies can leverage this new formalized information to investigate treatments 
that might effectively target the observed disturbances.

© 2022. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.

DOI: 10.1038/s41380-022-01594-8
PMCID: PMC10578135
PMID: 35508628 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosures: LL is a U.S. federal employee at 
the National Institutes of Health, and his work is funded by the NIDA and NIAAA 
intramural research program. Outside his federal employment, he receives an 
honorarium from the UK Medical Council on Alcoholism (Editor-in-Chief for 
Alcohol and Alcoholism) and royalties from Routledge for a textbook. All other 
authors report no biomedical financial interests or potential conflicts of 
interest.