[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: magnetic resonance spectroscopy metabolite brain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: magnetic resonance spectroscopy metabolite brain]

99. Neurochem Int. 2004 Jul-Aug;45(2-3):305-10. doi:
10.1016/j.neuint.2003.10.010.

Intracellular metabolic compartmentation assessed by 13C magnetic resonance 
spectroscopy.

Sonnewald U(1), Schousboe A, Qu H, Waagepetersen HS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Norwegian University of Science and Technology 
(NTNU), NO-7489 Trondheim, Norway. ursula.sonnewald@medisin.ntnu.no

Our understanding of the brain has developed from the theory that it is one 
continuous cell to the knowledge that there are many brain cells originally 
termed neurons and, furthermore to the discovery of glial cells and their 
multiple functions. Thus, an increasing complexity was unraveled and we have not 
reached a complete understanding of the phenomenon which comprises the 
compartmentation of metabolic pathways and metabolites. This is an important 
principle needed to fully understand the metabolic processes of the brain. At 
the cellular level this concept is well established whereas intracellular 
compartmentation has yet to be explored. Using magnetic resonance spectroscopy 
(MRS) for analysis of isotopomer composition combined with quantification of 
amino acid contents it is possible to construct models that describe 
intracellular compartmentation. Results of studies of cultures of astrocytes and 
neurons incubated in media containing [U- 13C]glutamate in the presence or 
absence of thiopental may be used to propose an intracellular three compartment 
model of mitochondrial function. Due to the experimental paradigm only certain 
aspects of metabolism can be described. The present model consists of 
compartments assigned to CO(2) production, glutamate synthesis from 
ketoglutarate and finally synthesis of a four-carbon metabolite which is 
shuttled between compartments. It is likely that metabolism may be far more 
complex than this and we are only beginning to glimpse some aspects of 
compartmentation at the cellular level.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuint.2003.10.010
PMID: 15145546 [Indexed for MEDLINE]