[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Propulsion Mechanics | Topic: Ammonium perchlorate composite propellant | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Ammonium perchlorate composite propellant — Overview

motor casing and closures are typically bought separately from the motor manufacturer and are often precision-machined from aluminium. The assembled RMS contains both reusable (typically metal) and disposable components. The major APCP suppliers for hobby use are: Aerotech Consumer Aerospace Cesaroni Technology Loki Research Gorilla Rocket Motors To achieve different visual effects and flight characteristics, hobby APCP suppliers offer a variety of different characteristic propellant types. These can range from fast-burning with little smoke and blue flame to classic white smoke and white flame. In addition, colored formulations are available to display reds, greens, blues, and even black smoke. In the medium- and high-power rocket applications, APCP has largely replaced black powder as a rocket propellant. Compacted black powder slugs become prone to fracture in larger applications, which can result in catastrophic failure in rocket vehicles. APCP's elastic material properties make it less vulnerable to fracture from accidental shock or high-acceleration flights. Due to these attributes, widespread adoption of APCP and related propellant types in the hobby has significantly enhanced the safety of rocketry. Environmental and other concerns 
The exhaust from APCP solid rocket motors contains mostly water, carbon dioxide, hydrogen chloride, and a metal oxide (typically aluminium oxide). The hydrogen chloride can easily dissolve in water and create corrosive hydrochloric acid. The environmental fate of hydrogen chloride is not well documented. The hydrochloric acid component of APCP exhaust leads to the condensation of atmospheric moisture in the plume and this enhances the visible signature of the contrail. This visible signature, among other reasons, led to research in cleaner burning propellants with no visible signatures. Minimum signature propellants contain primarily nitrogen-rich organic molecules (e.g., ammonium dinitramide) and depending on their oxidizer source can be hotter burning than APCP composite propellants. Regulation and legality 
In the United States, APCP for hobby use is regulated indirectly by two non-government agencies: the National Association of Rocketry (NAR), and the Tripoli Rocketry Association (TRA). Both agencies set forth rules regarding the impulse classification of rocket motors and the level of certification required by rocketeers in order to purchase certain impulse (size) motors. The NAR and TRA require motor manufacturers to certify their motors for distribution to vendors and ultimately hobbyists. The vendor is charged with the responsibility (by the NAR and TRA) to check hobbyists for high-power rocket certification before a sale can be made. The amount of APCP that can be purchased (in the form of a rocket motor reload) correlates to the impulse classification, and therefore the quantity of APCP purchasable by a hobbyist (in any single reload kit) is regulated by the NAR and TRA. The overarching legality concerning the implementation of APCP in rocket motors is outlined in NFPA 1125. Use of APCP outside hobby use is regulated by state and municipal fire codes. On March 16, 2009, it was ruled that APCP is not an explosive and that manufacture and use of APCP no longer requires a license or permit from the ATF. Footnotes

References 
 Rocket Propulsion Elements. Sutton, George P. Amateur Experimental Solid Propellants by Richard Nakka
 Solid Propellant Burn Rate by Richard Nakka
 Intro to Solid Propulsion  by Graham Orr, Harvey Mudd College Experimental Engineering
 BATFE Lawsuit Documents, 2002–Present, Tripoli Rocketry Association 

Rocketry
Model rocketry
Rocket propellants
Solid fuels