[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: Culpeper's Complete Herbal — Nicholas Culpeper | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Culpeper's Complete Herbal — Nicholas Culpeper — Overview

crept down between the sticks. It was then that Whitefoot began to grow anxious. It was then he realized that that pile of wood was growing smaller and smaller, and if it kept on growing smaller, by and by there wouldn't be any pile of wood and his little home wouldn't be hidden at all. Of course Whitefoot didn't understand why that wood was slipping away. In spite of himself
he began to grow suspicious. He couldn't think of any reason why that
wood should be taken away, unless it was to look for his little home. Farmer Brown's boy was just as kind and friendly as ever, but all the
time more and more light crept in, as the wood vanished. “Oh dear, what does it mean?” cried Whitefoot to himself. “They must be
looking for my home, yet they have been so good to me that it is hard
to believe they mean any harm. I do hope they will stop taking this wood
away. I won't have any hiding-place at all, and then I will have to
go outside back to my old home in the hollow stump. I don't want to do
that. Oh, dear! Oh, dear! I was so happy and now I am so worried! Why
can't happy times last always?”



CHAPTER V: The End Of Whitefoot's Worries

   You never can tell! You never can tell! Things going wrong will often end well. --Whitefoot. The next time you meet him just ask Whitefoot if this isn't so. Things
had been going very wrong for Whitefoot. It had begun to look to
Whitefoot as if he would no longer have a snug, hidden little home in
Farmer Brown's sugar-house. The pile of wood under which he had made
that snug little home was disappearing so fast that it began to look as
if in a little while there would be no wood at all. Whitefoot quite lost his appetite. He no longer came out to take food
from Farmer Brown's boy's hand. He stayed right in his snug little home
and worried. Now Farmer Brown's boy had not once thought of the trouble he was
making. He wondered what had become of Whitefoot, and in his turn he
began to worry. He was afraid that something had happened to his little
friend. He was thinking of this as he fed the sticks of wood to the fire
for boiling the sap to make syrup and sugar. Finally, as he pulled away
two big sticks, he saw something that made him whistle with surprise. It
was Whitefoot's nest which he had so cleverly hidden way down underneath
that pile of wood when he had first moved into the sugar-house. With a
frightened little squeak, Whitefoot ran out, scurried across the little
sugar-house and out though the open door. Farmer Brown's boy understood. He understood perfectly that little
people like Whitefoot want their homes hidden away in the dark. “Poor
little chap,” said Farmer Brown's boy."He had a regular castle here and
we have destroyed it. He's got the snuggest kind of a little nest here,
but he won't come back to it so long as it is right out in plain sight. He probably thinks we have been hunting for this little home of his. Hello! Here's his storehouse! I've often wondered how the little rascal
could eat so much, but now I understand. He stored away here more
than half of the good things I have given him. I am glad he did. If he
hadn't, he might not come back, but I feel sure that to-night, when
all is quiet, he will come back to take away all his food. I must do
something to keep him here.”

Farmer Brown's boy sat down to think things over. Then he got an old box
and made a little round hole in one end of it. Very carefully he took up
Whitefoot's nest and placed it under the old box in the darkest corner
of the sugar-house. Then he carried all Whitefoot's supplies over there
and put them under the box. He went outside, and got some branches of
hemlock and threw these in a little pile over the box. After this he
scattered some crumbs just outside. Late that night Whitefoot did come back. The crumbs led him to the old
box. He crept inside. There was his snug little home! All in a second
Whitefoot understood, and trust and happiness returned. CHAPTER VI: A Very Careless Jump

Whitefoot once more was happy. When he found his snug little nest and
his store of food under that old box in the darkest corner of Farmer
Brown's sugar-house, he knew that Farmer Brown's boy must have placed
them there. It was better than the old place under the woodpile. It was
the best place for a home Whitefoot ever had had. It didn't take him
long to change his mind about leaving the little sugar-house. Somehow
he seemed to know right down inside that his home would not again be
disturbed. So he proceeded to rearrange his nest and to put all his supplies of
food in one corner of the old box. When everything was placed to suit
him he ventured out, for now that he no longer feared Farmer Brown's boy
he wanted to see all that was going on. He liked to jump up on the
bench where Farmer Brown's boy sometimes sat. He would climb up to where
Farmer Brown's boy's coat hung and explore the pockets of it. Once he
stole Farmer Brown's boy's handkerchief.