[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: ethnobotany traditional medicine biological activi | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: ethnobotany traditional medicine biological activity]

30. J Ethnopharmacol. 2022 Mar 25;286:114839. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2021.114839.
Epub  2021 Dec 8.

Shahatra (F.parviflora Lam)- a comprehensive review of its ethnopharmacology, 
phytochemistry and pharmacology.

Jamaldeen FN(1), Sofi G(2), Fahim MFM(3), Aleem M(4), Begum EMGKN(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Ilmul Advia (Pharmacology), National Institute of Unani 
Medicine, Kottigepalaya, Magadi Main Road, Bengaluru, 560091, India. Electronic 
address: fnairozadeen@iim.cmb.ac.lk.
(2)Department of Ilmul Advia (Pharmacology), National Institute of Unani 
Medicine, Kottigepalaya, Magadi Main Road, Bengaluru, 560091, India. Electronic 
address: sofi114@rediffmail.com.
(3)Department of Tahaffuzi wa Samaji Tibb (Preventive and Social Medicine), 
National Institute of Unani Medicine, Kottigepalaya, Magadi Main Road, 
Bengaluru, 560091, India. Electronic address: fahimfuard@yahoo.com.
(4)Department of Ilmul Advia (Pharmacology), National Institute of Unani 
Medicine, Kottigepalaya, Magadi Main Road, Bengaluru, 560091, India. Electronic 
address: mohdaleem2190@gmail.com.
(5)Department of Ilmul Advia (Pharmacology), National Institute of Unani 
Medicine, Kottigepalaya, Magadi Main Road, Bengaluru, 560091, India. Electronic 
address: emgknbegum85@gmail.com.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: F.parviflora Lam. is a plant widely used in 
traditional medicine systems like Unani, Ayurveda, and folk medicines in Iraq 
and Turkey. It is known as Shahatraj in Arabic, which is derived from Shahatra 
and called Shajaratuddam. In the ancient Unani system, it is called 
Shajaratuddam. The term derived from Sajarat means tree, and Dam means blood 
since it has a potent blood purifier property.
AIM OF THE STUDY: This review focused on comprehensive, updated information on 
the F.parviflora Lam. about the traditional uses, phytochemical and pharmacology 
and provided insights into potential opportunities for future research.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The classical literature of Shahatra for its temperament 
(Mizaj), medicinal properties and traditional therapeutic uses were gathered 
from nearly 15 classical Unani books, eight local and foreign books on 
ethnomedicines and ethnobotany in English. The information of pharmacognosy, 
phytochemical and pharmacological activities of F.parviflora Lam was collected 
by browsing the Internet (PubMed, ScienceDirect, Wiley online library, Google 
Scholar, ResearchGate). The relevant primary sources were probed, analysed, and 
included in this review. The keywords used to browse were F.parviflora Lam, 
shahatra, pitpapda, and fine fumitory. Relevant Sources were gathered up to 
April 2021, and the chemical structures were drawn using Chemsketch software. 
The species name was checked with http://www.theplantlist.org ("F.parviflora 
Lam. - The Plant List," n.d.). The materials published in both Urdu and English 
were included in the review.
RESULTS: F.parviflora Lam was found to possess an excess of bioactive compounds 
and broad pharmacological properties, including antimicrobial activity, 
antioxidant activity, antiprotozoal activity, anthelmintic activity, 
antidiarrheal, antispasmodic and bronchodilator activities, antidiabetic 
activity, hepatoprotective activity, anticancer activity (cytotoxicity)of 
nanoparticle, antipruritic activity, dermatological effect, reproductive effect, 
anti-inflammatory and anti-nociceptive activity.
CONCLUSION: In this review, the botany, traditional uses, phytochemistry and 
pharmacology of F.parviflora were reviewed. It showed a broad scope of 
application, and its benefits had been extended far beyond the initial 
conventional uses of its parts. It consists of numerous chemical constituents 
and reported various pharmacological activities such as antimicrobial activity, 
antioxidant activity, antidiabetic activity, hepatoprotective activity, 
anticancer activity etc. Though it is widely studied using several in-vitro and 
in-vivo models and tested clinically for skin diseases, several gaps and 
research priorities have been identified that need to be addressed in the 
future, such as active ingredients and their mechanism of action applications in 
immunomodulation and hepatic diseases.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2021.114839
PMID: 34896208 [Indexed for MEDLINE]