[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: crystal structure protein drug target binding | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: crystal structure protein drug target binding]

14. Biochem Pharmacol. 2007 Oct 15;74(8):1164-71. doi: 10.1016/j.bcp.2007.07.038.
 Epub 2007 Aug 3.

Structure-guided drug design: conferring selectivity among neuronal nicotinic 
receptor and acetylcholine-binding protein subtypes.

Taylor P(1), Talley TT, Radic' Z, Hansen SB, Hibbs RE, Shi J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Skaggs School of Pharmacy & Pharmaceutical 
Sciences, University of California, San Diego, La Jolla, CA 92093-0657, USA. 
pwtaylor@ucsd.edu

Neuronal nicotinic receptors, encoded by nine genes of the alpha and three of 
the beta type of subunits, and whose gene products assemble in distinct 
permutations as pentameric molecules, constitute a fertile area for 
structure-guided drug design. Design strategies are augmented by a wide variety 
of peptide, alkaloid and terpenoid toxins from various marine and terrestrial 
species that interact with nicotinic receptors. Also, acetylcholine-binding 
proteins from mollusks, as structural surrogates of the receptor that mimic its 
extracellular domain, provide atomic resolution templates for analysis of 
structure and response. Herein, we describe a structure-guided approach to 
nicotinic ligand design that employs crystallography of this protein as the 
basic template, but also takes into consideration the dynamic properties of the 
receptor molecules in their biological media. We present the crystallographic 
structures of several complexes of various agonists and antagonists that 
associate with the agonist site and can competitively block the action of 
acetylcholine. In so far as the extracellular domain is involved, we identify 
additional non-competitive sites at those subunit interfaces where agonists do 
not preferentially bind. Ligand association at these interface sites may 
modulate receptor function. Ligand binding is also shown by solution-based 
spectroscopic and spectrometric methods to affect the dynamics of discrete 
domains of the receptor molecule. The surrogate receptor molecules can then be 
employed to design ligands selective for receptor subtype through the novel 
methods of freeze-frame, click chemistry that uses the very structure of the 
target molecule as a template for synthesis of the inhibitor.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bcp.2007.07.038
PMCID: PMC3341175
PMID: 17826748 [Indexed for MEDLINE]