[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Complex Circuit Systems | Topic: Cadence Design Systems | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Cadence Design Systems — Overview

and Stimulus Standard (PSS) standard. . is verification management tool for tracking verification process, including coverage, using emulation, simulation, and/or formal technology as the data source(s). Palladium. In 2015, Cadence announced the Palladium Z1 Hardware emulation platform, with over 100 million gates per hour compile speed, and greater than 1 MHz execution for billion-gate designs. Cadence's Palladium emulator was originally from Cadence's Quickturn acquisition in 1998. In 2021, Cadence announced Palladium Z2, claiming a 1.5X performance and 2X capacity improvement over the prior Palladium Z1, for more than 18 billion gate+ capacity. Additionally, Cadence claimed Palladium Z2 could compile 10 billion gates in under 10 hours. Protium. The Protium FPGA prototyping platform was officially introduced in 2014. In 2017, Cadence introduced the Protium S1 built on Xilinx Virtex UltraScale FPGAs. In 2019, Protium X1 rack-based prototyping was introduced, which Cadence claimed supported a 1.2 billion gate SoCs at around 5 MHz. Palladium S1/X1 and Protium share a single compilation flow. In 2021, Protium X2 was announced; Cadence claimed a 1.5X performance and 2X capacity improvement over Protium X1, and that Protium X2 could compile 10 billion gates in under 24 hours. Intellectual property
Chip design IP targeting areas including memory/storage/high-performance interface protocols (USB or PCIe controllers and PHYs), Tensilica DSP processors for audio, vision, wireless modems, and convolutional neural nets. Tensilica DSP processors IP include:

Tensilica Vision DSPs for Imaging, Vision, and AI processing; Tensilica HiFi DSPs for Audio/Voice/Speech processing; Tensilica Fusion DSPs for IoT; Tensilica ConnX DSPs for Radar, Lidar, and Communications processing; and Tensilica DNA Processor Family for AI acceleration

In 2021, Cadence launched the Tensilica AI Platform to accelerate AI SoC development and improve power, performance, and area—targeting mobile, IoT, automotive, intelligent sensor, and industrial AI SoC designs. PCB and packaging technologies
Allegro Platform. Tools for co-design of integrated circuits, packages, and PCBs, including the Specctra auto-router. OrCAD/PSpice. Tools for smaller design teams and individual PCB designers. OrbitIO Interconnect Designer. Die/package planning & route optimization tool. InspectAR. InspectAR uses augmented reality to map out complicated circuit board electronics for real-time labelling of board schematics. System analysis
Sigrity. Tools for signal, power integrity, and thermal integrity analysis and IC package design. Clarity. Cadence introduced Clarity in April 2019, as part of its expansion into system analysis. Clarity is a 3D field solver for electromagnetic analysis, that uses distributed adaptive meshing to partition jobs across on hundreds of cores for gains in speed and capacity. Celsius. In September 2019, Cadence announced Celsius, a parallel architecture thermal solver that uses finite element analysis for solid structures and computational fluid dynamics (CFD) for fluids. Fidelity. Fidelity, formerly known as OMNIS, is a computational fluid dynamics, mesh generation, multi-physics simulation, and optimization product, with established applications in aerospace, automotive, industrial, and marine. (From NUMECA acquisition in 2021.)
Fidelity Fine Turbo. Turbomachinery CFD vertical, formerly known as FINE/Turbo. (From NUMECA acquisition in 2021.)
Fidelity Fine Marine. Marine CFD vertical, formerly known as FINE/Marine. (From NUMECA acquisition in 2021.)
Fidelity Fine Open. General CFD package, largely succeeded by Fidelity, formerly known as FINE/Open. (From NUMECA acquisition in 2021.)
Fidelity Pointwise. Computational fluid dynamics (CFD) mesh generation. (From Pointwise acquisition in 2021.)
Cascade Technologies, Inc. Hi-fidelity CFD solvers for multiphysics analysis of turbulence fluid flows. Recognition

In 2016, Cadence CEO Lip-Bu Tan was awarded the Dr. Morris Chang Exemplary Leadership Award by the Global Semiconductor Alliance. In 2019, Investor's Business Daily ranked Cadence Design Systems #5 on its 50 Best Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) Companies list. In 2020, Fortune Magazine named Cadence to Fortune's "100 Best Companies to Work For list" for the sixth consecutive year. Also in 2020, Cadence was ranked #45 in PEOPLE magazine's Companies that Care. Sponsorship 
In May 2022, McLaren announced a multi-year partnership deal with Cadence. Acquisitions

Timeline

The company has also acquired High-Level Design (HLD), UniCAD, CadMOS, Ambit Design Systems, Simplex, Silicon Perspective, Plato, and Get2Chip. Related

In 2007, Cadence was rumored to be in talks with Kohlberg Kravis Roberts and Blackstone Group regarding a possible sale of the company. In 2008, Cadence withdrew a $1.6 billion offer to purchase rival Mentor Graphics. Lawsuits

Avanti Corporation    From 1995 until 2002, Cadence was involved in a 6-year-long legal dispute with Avanti Corporation (brand name "Avant!"), in which Cadence claimed Avanti stole Cadence code, and Avanti denied it.