[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS neurology | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS neurology]

9. Neurotherapeutics. 2024 Apr;21(3):e00330. doi: 10.1016/j.neurot.2024.e00330. 
Epub 2024 Feb 9.

Neuromodulation techniques - From non-invasive brain stimulation to deep brain 
stimulation.

Davidson B(1), Bhattacharya A(2), Sarica C(3), Darmani G(2), Raies N(2), Chen 
R(4), Lozano AM(5).

Author information:
(1)Division of Neurosurgery, Department of Surgery, University of Toronto, 
Toronto, Canada.
(2)Krembil Research Institute, University Health Network, Toronto, ON, Canada.
(3)Division of Neurosurgery, Department of Surgery, University of Toronto, 
Toronto, Canada; Krembil Research Institute, University Health Network, Toronto, 
ON, Canada.
(4)Krembil Research Institute, University Health Network, Toronto, ON, Canada; 
Edmond J. Safra Program in Parkinson's Disease Morton and Gloria Shulman 
Movement Disorders Clinic, Division of Neurology, University of Toronto, 
Toronto, ON, Canada.
(5)Division of Neurosurgery, Department of Surgery, University of Toronto, 
Toronto, Canada; Krembil Research Institute, University Health Network, Toronto, 
ON, Canada. Electronic address: lozano@uhnresearch.ca.

Over the past 30 years, the field of neuromodulation has witnessed remarkable 
advancements. These developments encompass a spectrum of techniques, both 
non-invasive and invasive, that possess the ability to both probe and influence 
the central nervous system. In many cases neuromodulation therapies have been 
adopted into standard care treatments. Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS), 
transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS), and transcranial ultrasound 
stimulation (TUS) are the most common non-invasive methods in use today. Deep 
brain stimulation (DBS), spinal cord stimulation (SCS), and vagus nerve 
stimulation (VNS), are leading surgical methods for neuromodulation. Ongoing 
active clinical trials using are uncovering novel applications and paradigms for 
these interventions.

Copyright © 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neurot.2024.e00330
PMCID: PMC11103220
PMID: 38340524 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicts of interest Andres 
Lozano is the co-founder of Functional Neuromodulation (a DBS-related company) 
and is a consultant for Boston Scientific, Medtronic and Abbott (companies that 
produce DBS hardware). None of the other authors have conflicts of interest to 
declare.