[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: graphene biomedical applications toxicity review | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: graphene biomedical applications toxicity review]

68. J Cell Physiol. 2018 Jan;234(1):298-319. doi: 10.1002/jcp.26899. Epub 2018
Aug  4.

Biomedical applications of carbon nanomaterials: Drug and gene delivery 
potentials.

Mohajeri M(1), Behnam B(2)(3), Sahebkar A(4)(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Biotechnology, School of Medicine, Mashhad University 
of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran.
(2)Pharmaceutics Research Center, Institute of Neuropharmacology, Kerman 
University of Medical Sciences, Kerman, Iran.
(3)Department of Pharmaceutical Biotechnology, Faculty of Pharmacy, Kerman 
University of Medical Sciences, Kerman, Iran.
(4)Neurogenic Inflammation Research Center, Mashhad University of Medical 
Sciences, Mashhad, Iran.
(5)Biotechnology Research Center, Pharmaceutical Technology Institute, Mashhad 
University of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran.
(6)School of Pharmacy, Mashhad University of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran.

One of the major components in the development of nanomedicines is the choice of 
the right biomaterial, which notably determines the subsequent biological 
responses. The popularity of carbon nanomaterials (CNMs) has been on the rise 
due to their numerous applications in the fields of drug delivery, bioimaging, 
tissue engineering, and biosensing. Owing to their considerably high surface 
area, multifunctional surface chemistry, and excellent optical activity, novel 
functionalized CNMs possess efficient drug-loading capacity, biocompatibility, 
and lack of immunogenicity. Over the past few decades, several advances have 
been made on the functionalization of CNMs to minimize their health concerns and 
enhance their biosafety. Recent evidence has also implied that CNMs can be 
functionalized with bioactive peptides, proteins, nucleic acids, and drugs to 
achieve composites with remarkably low toxicity and high pharmaceutical 
efficiency. This review focuses on the three main classes of CNMs, including 
fullerenes, graphenes, and carbon nanotubes, and their recent biomedical 
applications.

© 2018 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/jcp.26899
PMID: 30078182 [Indexed for MEDLINE]