[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: crystal structure protein drug target binding | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: crystal structure protein drug target binding]

46. Protein Sci. 1994 Oct;3(10):1670-86. doi: 10.1002/pro.5560031006.

Protein crystallography and infectious diseases.

Verlinde CL(1), Merritt EA, Van den Akker F, Kim H, Feil I, Delboni LF, Mande 
SC, Sarfaty S, Petra PH, Hol WG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Structure, University of Washington, Seattle 98195.

The current rapid growth in the number of known 3-dimensional protein structures 
is producing a database of structures that is increasingly useful as a starting 
point for the development of new medically relevant molecules such as drugs, 
therapeutic proteins, and vaccines. This development is beautifully illustrated 
in the recent book, Protein structure: New approaches to disease and therapy 
(Perutz, 1992). There is a great and growing promise for the design of molecules 
for the treatment or prevention of a wide variety of diseases, an endeavor made 
possible by the insights derived from the structure and function of crucial 
proteins from pathogenic organisms and from man. We present here 2 illustrations 
of structure-based drug design. The first is the prospect of developing 
antitrypanosomal drugs based on crystallographic, ligand-binding, and molecular 
modeling studies of glycolytic glycosomal enzymes from Trypanosomatidae. These 
unicellular organisms are responsible for several tropical diseases, including 
African and American trypanosomiases, as well as various forms of leishmaniasis. 
Because the target enzymes are also present in the human host, this project is a 
pioneering study in selective design. The second illustrative case is the 
prospect of designing anti-cholera drugs based on detailed analysis of the 
structure of cholera toxin and the closely related Escherichia coli heat-labile 
enterotoxin. Such potential drugs can be targeted either at inhibiting the 
toxin's receptor binding site or at blocking the toxin's intracellular catalytic 
activity. Study of the Vibrio cholerae and E. coli toxins serves at the same 
time as an example of a general approach to structure-based vaccine design. 
These toxins exhibit a remarkable ability to stimulate the mucosal immune 
system, and early results have suggested that this property can be maintained by 
engineered fusion proteins based on the native toxin structure. The challenge is 
thus to incorporate selected epitopes from foreign pathogens into the native 
framework of the toxin such that crucial features of both the epitope and the 
toxin are maintained. That is, the modified toxin must continue to evoke a 
strong mucosal immune response, and this response must be directed against an 
epitope conformation characteristic of the original pathogen.

DOI: 10.1002/pro.5560031006
PMCID: PMC2142599
PMID: 7849584 [Indexed for MEDLINE]