[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: Richard Boyd Barrett | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Richard Boyd Barrett — Overview

November 2011, Boyd Barrett led the United Left Alliance TDs out of the Dáil, in protest against the government's decision not to hold a debate on the payment of more than €700 million to Anglo Irish Bank bondholders. "You will not even give the parliament the right to vote on the handover of all the money you have taken out of the health service", he objected. On 15 December 2011, he helped launch a nationwide campaign against a proposed household charge being brought in as part of the 2012 Irish budget. The Phoenix reported that, after a Technical group meeting with the Troika on 17 January 2012, another member of the Technical Group, Mick Wallace, confronted Boyd Barrett and angrily criticized him for "ignoring their advance strategy of dividing up questions between them and dominating the meeting with a raft of his own queries and assertions. Boyd Barrett was part of an Oireachtas delegation that met the Bundestag's Budgetary and European Affairs committees in Berlin, in late January 2012. In October 2012, he confirmed that he had claimed €12,000 in 2011 expenses for travelling to the Dáil from his home in Glenageary, in his Dún Laoghaire constituency – a distance of 12 km. On 10 March 2016, at the first sitting of the 32nd Dáil, he was one of four candidates nominated for the position of Taoiseach, all of whom failed to reach a majority. Ruth Coppinger nominated Boyd Barrett for the role, quoting James Connolly from a hundred years previously when she said: "The day has passed for patching up the capitalist system. It must go" and declaring: "We will not vote for the identical twin candidates" of Fine Gael and Fianna Fáil, after they "imposed austerity". Bríd Smith seconded the nomination. The nomination of Boyd Barrett was defeated by 9 votes to 111. As well as the 6 other AAA–PBP TDs, he also had the support of Séamus Healy of the Workers and Unemployed Action, Tommy Broughan of Independents 4 Change, and Independent TD Catherine Connolly. At the general election in February 2020, he was again re-elected, having topped the poll. Campaigns and policies

Domestic policy
Richard Boyd Barrett has campaigned against Ireland's bank-bail outs and the National Asset Management Agency (NAMA), organised protests, and supported initiatives such as The Right to Work Campaign. He also proposed direct investment in public enterprise and strategic industry to create jobs in areas such as renewable energy, food production, generic medicines and IT development. Boyd Barrett has organised a campaign to oppose the sale of St Michael's Hospital to private developers, led campaigns to protect public amenities in Dún Laoghaire, including the Save Our Seafront campaign against a high rise development on the site of the Dún Laoghaire baths, and he has also campaigned to prevent the acquisition of Dún Laoghaire harbour by private companies. In a 2021 private members bill, Boyd Barrett called for the Leaving Cert to be abolished and for all students to be able to study any course of their choice regardless of exam results. Foreign policy
Boyd Barrett helped to organise mass protests against the war in Iraq in 2003. He addressed the Dublin leg of the 20 March 2003 International Day of Action. He said that it was "almost certain" that any war would lead to between 50,000 and 100,000 deaths. He said "the complicity of the Irish Government in this murderous war through providing facilities for the US military at Shannon airport" was "an absolute disgrace" and urged people to protest in their thousands "to show this carnage is not being mounted in our names". In 2009, he supported the pro-democracy protests in Iran. In March 2005, according to the Irish Anti-War organisation, Boyd Barrett attended the Cairo Anti-war Conference in Cairo, Egypt, focusing on American intervention in Iraq. In 2007, he called for Ibrahim Mousawi, head of the Hezbollah-owned Al-Manar TV station, to be allowed to enter Ireland to attend a Dublin conference organised by the Irish Anti-War Movement. According to the Irish Independent, Boyd Barrett said that banning Mousawi amounted to the suppression of "free public debate in the country". In April 2009, Boyd Barrett addressed the Al-Aqsa Festival fundraising event held at the RDS Concert Hall in Dublin. He said that Israel is "a state built on violence, oppression and apartheid" and "has no right to exist as long as it denies rights to Palestinians."

After the outbreak of the 2023 Israel–Hamas war Boyd Barrett addressed a pro-Palestine rally and compared the situation to the then ongoing Russian invasion of Ukraine, suggesting that there was a double standard in how the conflicts were perceived in the West. During a session of the Dáil, Boyd Barrett accused Israel of committing ethnic cleansing and taking part in war crimes, and condemned Western governments for failing to hold the Israeli government accountable. References

1967 births
Living people
Alumni of University College Dublin
Cusack family (Ireland)
Irish anti-war activists
Irish tax resisters
Members of Dún Laoghaire–Rathdown Council
Members of the 31st Dáil
Members of the 32nd Dáil
Members of the 33rd Dáil
People Before Profit Alliance TDs
People from Glenageary
Socialist Workers Party (Ireland) politicians
People Before Profit–Solidarity TDs