[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS neurology | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS neurology]

77. CNS Neurol Disord Drug Targets. 2010 Jul;9(3):331-4. doi: 
10.2174/187152710791292620.

Repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation for ALS.

Dileone M(1), Profice P, Pilato F, Ranieri F, Capone F, Musumeci G, Florio L, Di 
Iorio R, Di Lazzaro V.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Institute of Neurology, Università Cattolica, 
L.go A. Gemelli 8, 00168 Rome, Italy. mdileone1@tin.it

Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a devastating neurodegenerative disease 
affecting upper and lower motor neurons characterized by progressive weakness, 
respiratory failure and death within 3-5 years. It has been proposed that 
glutamate-related excitotoxicity may promote motor neuron death in ALS. 
Glutamatergic circuits of the human motor cortex can be activated noninvasively 
using transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) of the brain, and repetitive TMS 
(rTMS) can produce changes in neurotransmission that outlast the period of 
stimulation. In recent years a remarkable number of papers about the potential 
effects of rTMS in several neurological disorders including ALS has been 
published. Preliminary studies have shown that rTMS of the motor cortex, at 
frequencies that decrease cortical excitability, causes a slight slowing in the 
progression rate of ALS, suggesting that these effects might be related to a 
diminution of glutamate-driven excitotoxicity. RTMS could also interfere with 
motor neuron death through different mechanisms: rTMS could modulate the 
production of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), a potent survival factor 
for neurons, that in turn might represent a promoter of motor neuron sparing in 
ALS. Despite some promising preliminary data, recent studies have demonstrated a 
lack of significant long-term beneficial effects of rTMS on neurological 
deterioration in ALS. However, further studies are warranted to evaluate the 
potential efficacy of different protocols of motor cortex stimulation (in terms 
of technique, duration and frequency of stimulation), particularly during the 
early stages of the disease when the progression rate is more pronounced.

DOI: 10.2174/187152710791292620
PMID: 20406177 [Indexed for MEDLINE]