[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: herbal medicine drug interaction pharmacokinetics | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: herbal medicine drug interaction pharmacokinetics]

37. BMC Complement Altern Med. 2013 Jul 30;13:199. doi: 10.1186/1472-6882-13-199.

Herbal-drug interaction induced rhabdomyolysis in a liposarcoma patient 
receiving trabectedin.

Strippoli S(1), Lorusso V, Albano A, Guida M.

Author information:
(1)Medical Oncology Department, National Cancer Research Centre Giovanni Paolo 
II, Bari, Italy.

BACKGROUND: Rhabdomyolysis is an uncommon side effect of trabectedin which is 
used for the second line therapy of metastatic sarcoma after anthracycline and 
ifosfamide failure. This side effect may be due to pharmacokinetic interactions 
caused by shared mechanisms of metabolism involving the cytochrome P450 (CYP) 
system in the liver. Here, for the first time in literature, we describe the 
unexpected onset of heavy toxicity, including rhabdomyolysis, after the fourth 
course of trabectedin in a patient with retroperitoneal liposarcoma who at the 
same time was taking an alternative herbal medicine suspected of triggering this 
adverse event.
CASE PRESENTATION: This is the case of a 56 year old Caucasian man affected by a 
relapsed de-differentiated liposarcoma who, after the fourth cycle of 
second-line chemotherapy with trabectedin, complained of sudden weakness, 
difficulty walking and diffuse muscle pain necessitating complete bed rest. Upon 
admission to our ward the patient showed grade (G) 4 pancytopenia and a marked 
increase in liver lytic enzymes, serum levels of myoglobin, creatine 
phosphokinase (CPK) and lactate dehydrogenase. No cardiac or kidney function 
injuries were present. Based on these clinical and laboratory features, our 
conclusive diagnosis was of rhabdomyolysis induced by trabectedin.The patient 
did not report any trauma or muscular overexertion and no co-morbidities were 
present. He had not received any drugs during treatment with trabectedin, but 
upon further questioning the patient informed us he had been taking a folk 
medicine preparation of chokeberry (Aronia melanocarpa) daily during the last 
course of trabectedin and in the 2 subsequent weeks.One week after 
hospitalization and cessation of intake of chokeberry extract, CPK and other 
markers of myolysis slowly returned to standard range, and the patient noted a 
progressive recovery of muscle strength.The patient was discharged on day 14 
when a blood transfusion and parenteral hydration gradually lowered general 
toxicity. Progressive mobilization of the patient was obtained as well as a 
complete normalization of the laboratory findings.
CONCLUSIONS: The level of evidence of drug interaction leading to the adverse 
event observed in our patient was 2 (probable). Thus our case underlines the 
importance of understanding rare treatment-related toxicities such as 
trabectedin-induced rhabdomyolysis and the possible role of the drug-drug 
interactions in the pathogenesis of this rare side effect. Furthermore, this 
report draws attention to a potential problem of particular concern, that of 
nutritional supplements and complementary and alternative drug interactions. 
These are not widely recognized and can cause treatment failure.

DOI: 10.1186/1472-6882-13-199
PMCID: PMC3737021
PMID: 23899130 [Indexed for MEDLINE]