[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: laser tissue interaction ablation photothermal | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: laser tissue interaction ablation photothermal]

42. Nanoscale. 2015 Nov 28;7(44):18584-94. doi: 10.1039/c5nr05067g. Epub 2015 Oct
 22.

The synergistic effect of folate and RGD dual ligand of nanographene oxide on 
tumor targeting and photothermal therapy in vivo.

Jang C(1), Lee JH, Sahu A, Tae G.

Author information:
(1)School of Materials Science and Engineering, Gwangju Institute of Science and 
Technology, 261 Cheomdan-gwagiro, Buk-gu, Gwangju 500-712, Republic of Korea. 
gytae@gist.ac.kr.

Effective delivery of nanoparticles to the target site is necessary for 
successful biomedical applications. Inefficient targeting is a major concern for 
nanomedicines in cancer therapy. Conjugation of multiple targeting ligands to 
the nanoparticle surface might further enhance the targeting efficiency by a 
co-operative effect of individual ligands. In this study, a dual ligand 
targeting nanographene oxide (nGO) was developed by non-covalent interaction 
with folate and cRGD functionalized pluronic, which allowed precise control of 
ligand number on the nGO surface and ensured stability under physiological 
conditions. The tumor targeting abilities of single and dual ligand decorated 
nGOs were evaluated in vitro by using KB cells, over-expressing folate and 
integrin αvβ3 receptors. In vitro cellular uptake analysis by flow cytometry and 
confocal laser scanning microscopy showed enhanced uptake of dual ligand 
modified nGO compared to any of the single ligand modified nGOs. The cellular 
uptake of dual targeted cRGD-FA-nGO was increased by 1.9 and 2.4 folds compared 
to single targeted cRGD-nGO or FA-nGO, respectively. The in vivo biodistribution 
experiment in a mouse xenograft model also confirmed the synergistic targeting 
effect of cRGD and folate dual functionalized nGO. A significantly higher tumor 
accumulation of cRGD-FA-nGO was observed compared to cRGD-nGO or FA-nGO. The 
higher tumor accumulation of dual targeted nGO resulted in complete ablation of 
tumor tissue through an enhanced photothermal effect by NIR laser irradiation. 
Therefore, co-functionalization of a nanoparticle by cRGD and folate is a 
potentially useful way to enhance the tumor targeting efficacy.

DOI: 10.1039/c5nr05067g
PMID: 26489965 [Indexed for MEDLINE]