[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Propulsion Mechanics | Topic: Carbon Nanotube Membrane Solar Sails A Challenge for Extreme | Type: OpenAlex-OA | Level: Graduate]

[OpenAlex | Propulsion Engineering | Year: 2010 | Citations: 6]

Title: Carbon Nanotube Membrane Solar Sails A Challenge for Extremely Fast Space Flight

Abstract:
Space sailing is a concept in space propulsion technology that is based on the use of solar or other radiation for propulsion. The sunlight, or the beam of electromagnetic radiation from a laser, are reflected by the sail surface and, since photons carry momentum, their reflection changes their momentum so that a resultant force is exerted on the reflecting surface. Accordingly, spacecraft exploiting this propulsion method will carry very large, ultra-thin reflectors and will be able to transport heavy payloads both for planetary and for interstellar missions. Here the focus will be on solar sails as systems exploiting the pressure of light from the Sun for propulsion, not from a laser beamed to the sail, and their physics will be briefly analyzed from first principles involving mechanics, optics and thermodynamics. It will be then shown how the basic astrodynamic parameters and the technological and engineering requirements can be derived from first principles for interplanetary and interstellar flight purposes. This discussion will contemplate such thumbnail sketch of the basic scientific and engineering aspects of solar sail propulsion, also known as photonic propulsion, just in order to allow a better understanding and appreciation of the recent technological advancements in the sail material through a proper development of carbon nanotube membranes, that has allowed the design to be realized of a solar sail featuring a cruising speed of the order of some thousandths the speed of light, i.e. a speed much higher than the speed attainable by any other propulsion methods. This is due both to the very light and reflecting sail material and to the manoeuvre of inverting the angular momentum (Vulpetti, 2002) of the sail when it has reached the perihelion according to the Sun diving flight mode, i.e. the mode consisting in launching the solar sail toward the Sun so that on flying by the Sun it becomes strongly accelerated to finally reach a very high cruising speed: the so-called asymptotic speed. Anyway, various other modes can be adopted, e.g. for orbiting a planet and interplanetary transportation of any payload. For detailed descriptions of solar sail structural technologies and of the astrodynamics involved in realizing some special missions, e.g. based on intraorbit transfer of sail up to being free from planetary gravitation and ready to spacefaring, the reader is referred to the abundant specialized papers on space sailing, where also excellent treatises can be found for a systematic approach (Wright, 1993; McInnes, 1999; Vulpetti et al., 2008). 30