[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: cannabis cannabidiol therapeutic epilepsy pain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: cannabis cannabidiol therapeutic epilepsy pain]

20. Pain Ther. 2019 Jun;8(1):41-51. doi: 10.1007/s40122-019-0114-4. Epub 2019 Feb
5.

An Update of Current Cannabis-Based Pharmaceuticals in Pain Medicine.

Urits I(1), Borchart M(2), Hasegawa M(2), Kochanski J(2), Orhurhu V(3), 
Viswanath O(4)(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesia, Critical Care, and Pain Medicine, Beth Israel 
Deaconess Medical Center, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA. 
iurits@bidmc.harvard.edu.
(2)Creighton University School of Medicine, Phoenix Regional Campus, Phoenix, 
AZ, USA.
(3)Department of Anesthesia, Critical Care, and Pain Medicine, Beth Israel 
Deaconess Medical Center, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA.
(4)Valley Anesthesiology and Pain Consultants, Phoenix, AZ, USA.
(5)Department of Anesthesiology, University of Arizona College of 
Medicine-Phoenix, Phoenix, AZ, USA.
(6)Department of Anesthesiology, Creighton University School of Medicine, Omaha, 
NE, USA.

Cannabis users have long reported therapeutic properties of the plant for a 
variety of conditions, some of which include nausea, emesis, seizures, cancer, 
neurogenic diseases and pain control. Research has elucidated many cannabinoid 
pharmacodynamic and pharmacokinetic properties, expanding the potential use of 
cannabinoids as a medical therapy. Due to the inconsistent delivery and control 
of the active components involved with smoking, pharmaceutical companies are 
investigating and prioritizing routes other than smoke inhalation for 
therapeutic use of cannabinoids. In this relatively new field of pharmaceutical 
development, ongoing drug development promises great benefit from targeted 
endocannabinoid receptor agonism. Available in Canada and Europe, nabiximols, a 
specific extract from the Cannabis plant, has demonstrated great benefit in the 
treatment of pain related to spasticity in multiple sclerosis, cancer and 
otherwise chronic pain conditions. The cannabidiol oral solution Epidiolex®, 
which is available in the USA, is indicated for management of refractory 
epilepsy but may offer therapeutic relief to chronic pain conditions as well. 
Current investigative drugs, such as those developed by Cara Therapeutics and 
Zynerba Pharmaceuticals, are synthetic cannabinoids which show promise to 
specifically target neuropsychiatric conditions and chronic pain symptoms such 
as neuropathy and allodynia. The objective of this review is to provide 
clinicians with an update of currently available and promising developmental 
cannabis pharmaceutical derivatives which may stand to greatly benefit patients 
with otherwise difficult-to-treat chronic conditions.

DOI: 10.1007/s40122-019-0114-4
PMCID: PMC6514017
PMID: 30721403