[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: magnetic resonance spectroscopy metabolite brain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: magnetic resonance spectroscopy metabolite brain]

52. Neuroimage. 2021 Jan 1;224:117394. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2020.117394.
Epub  2020 Sep 26.

Transcranial magnetic stimulation and magnetic resonance spectroscopy: 
Opportunities for a bimodal approach in human neuroscience.

Cuypers K(1), Marsman A(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Movement Sciences, Group Biomedical Sciences, Movement Control 
& Neuroplasticity Research Group, KU Leuven, 3001 Heverlee, Belgium; REVAL 
Research Institute, Hasselt University, Agoralaan, Building A, 3590 Diepenbeek, 
Belgium.
(2)Danish Research Centre for Magnetic Resonance, Centre for Functional and 
Diagnostic Imaging and Research, Copenhagen University Hospital Hvidovre, 
Section 714, Kettegård Allé 30, 26500 Hvidovre, Denmark. Electronic address: 
anoukm@drcmr.dk.

Over the last decade, there has been an increasing number of studies combining 
transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) and magnetic resonance spectroscopy 
(MRS). MRS provides a manner to non-invasively investigate molecular 
concentrations in the living brain and thus identify metabolites involved in 
physiological and pathological processes. Particularly the MRS-detectable 
metabolites glutamate, the major excitatory neurotransmitter, and 
gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), the major inhibitory neurotransmitter, are of 
interest when combining TMS and MRS. TMS is a non-invasive brain stimulation 
technique that can be applied either as a neuromodulation or neurostimulation 
tool, specifically targeting glutamatergic and GABAergic mechanisms. The 
combination of TMS and MRS can be used to evaluate alterations in brain 
metabolite levels following an interventional TMS protocol such as repetitive 
TMS (rTMS) or paired associative stimulation (PAS). MRS can also be combined 
with a variety of non-interventional TMS protocols to identify the interplay 
between brain metabolite levels and measures of excitability or 
receptor-mediated inhibition and facilitation. In this review, we provide an 
overview of studies performed in healthy and patient populations combining MRS 
and TMS, both as a measurement tool and as an intervention. TMS and MRS may 
reveal complementary and comprehensive information on glutamatergic and 
GABAergic neurotransmission. Potentially, connectivity changes and dedicated 
network interactions can be probed using the combined TMS-MRS approach. 
Considering the ongoing technical developments in both fields, combined studies 
hold future promise for investigations of brain network interactions and 
neurotransmission.

Copyright © 2020. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2020.117394
PMID: 32987106 [Indexed for MEDLINE]