[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: phytotherapy systematic review clinical evidence | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: phytotherapy systematic review clinical evidence]

36. Explore (NY). 2013 Nov-Dec;9(6):361-4. doi: 10.1016/j.explore.2013.08.001.

A systematic review of the evidence for topical use of ginger.

Ding M(1), Leach MJ, Bradley H.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Health Sciences, University of Queensland, Brisbane, Australia.

BACKGROUND: The use of ginger as a topical intervention is widely advocated in 
the popular media. However, there has been no attempt to date to synthesize the 
evidence for topically administered ginger.
OBJECTIVE: To systematically review and synthesize the best available evidence 
of effectiveness for topical ginger in any condition.
DATA SOURCES: CAM on PubMed, CINAHL, Google Scholar, MEDLINE, National Library 
of Australia, The Cochrane Library, TRIP, pertinent texts, and bibliographies of 
relevant papers.
STUDY SELECTION: Data sources were systematically searched for studies 
investigating the clinical effectiveness of topical ginger, in any form and for 
any condition, regardless of study design. Studies were limited to those 
published between 1980 and 2010, and published in English, Mandarin, Cantonese, 
or Taiwanese.
DATA EXTRACTION: Data were extracted by two authors, independently, using 
standardized templates.
DATA SYNTHESIS: Four studies met the inclusion criteria, including three 
randomized controlled trials and one non-randomized controlled trial. All 
studies differed in terms of study population, outcome measures, comparative 
interventions, and dose and form of ginger used, and thus, were not amenable to 
meta-analysis. Findings from all trials favored usage of ginger for most 
outcomes. However, the small sample sizes and inadequate methodological 
reporting indicate a high risk of bias and the need for caution when 
interpreting these results.
CONCLUSIONS: Few studies have investigated the effectiveness of topically 
administered ginger for any condition. Until the findings of these studies are 
corroborated by more robust research, and the safety of ginger is adequately 
established, clinicians should remain cautious about using topical ginger in 
clinical practice.

© 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.explore.2013.08.001
PMID: 24199775 [Indexed for MEDLINE]