[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: pharmacognosy medicinal plant active compound isol | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: pharmacognosy medicinal plant active compound isolation]

63. J Ethnopharmacol. 2013 May 2;147(1):42-62. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2013.02.022.
Epub  2013 Feb 27.

The genus Rhododendron: an ethnopharmacological and toxicological review.

Popescu R(1), Kopp B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacognosy, University of Vienna, Vienna, Austria. 
ruxandra.popescu@univie.ac.at

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: The vast genus Rhododendron includes species 
that have been used in traditional medicine for the treatment of inflammatory 
conditions, pain, gastro-intestinal disorders, common cold, asthma, skin 
disease, etc. Rhododendrons are also well known for their toxicity and some 
species have been traditionally used as poison.
AIM OF THE REVIEW: The work reviews and analyses the traditional use, biological 
activities with the corresponding chemical constituents, and toxicological data 
on Rhododendron species. The review aims at characterizing the ethnopharmacology 
of the genus in relation to its toxicity in order to identify the therapeutic 
potential of Rhododendron species and future directions for research.
METHODS: Data regarding Rhododendron spp. was collected using electronic 
databases (SciFinder, PubMed, Google Scholar) and library search for selected 
peer-reviewed articles. Plant taxonomy was validated by the databases The Plant 
List, Tropicos, eFloras, Flora Iberica and Flora Europaea (RBGE). Additional 
information on traditional use and botany was obtained from published books. The 
review encompasses literature, mainly regarding biological activity and 
toxicological data, from 1898 to the end of December 2012.
RESULTS: Rhododendrons have been used in Asian, North American and European 
traditional medicine mainly against inflammation, pain, skin ailments, common 
cold and gastro-intestinal disorders. In vivo and in vitro testing of plant 
extracts and isolated compounds determined diverse biological activities 
including anti-inflammatory, analgesic, anti-microbial, anti-diabetic, 
insecticidal and cytotoxic activity. Rhododendron spp. can cause intoxications 
in humans following intake of rhododendron honey or medicinal preparations. The 
toxicity is due to grayanotoxins, diterpenes which activate voltage-gated sodium 
channels and lead to gastro-intestinal, cardiac and central nervous system 
symptoms.
CONCLUSION: Rhododendron species are useful traditional remedies for the 
treatment of inflammation, pain, skin ailments, common cold and 
gastro-intestinal disorders. Pharmacological data has validated most indications 
of rhododendrons in ethnomedicine and toxicology studies have confirmed the 
toxicity observed by traditional use. Ethnopharmacological data point to the 
therapeutic potential of the genus Rhododendron for the treatment of 
inflammatory conditions and pain and, thus, research should focus on 
identification of active compounds and related mechanistic studies. Prolonged 
and high dose intake of traditional formulations containing rhododendrons should 
be avoided until more in depth toxicity studies become available.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2013.02.022
PMID: 23454683 [Indexed for MEDLINE]