[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: natural product antibiotic drug discovery | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: natural product antibiotic drug discovery]

23. Int J Mycobacteriol. 2015 Sep;4(3):165-83. doi: 10.1016/j.ijmyco.2015.05.004.
 Epub 2015 Jun 3.

Current perspectives in drug discovery against tuberculosis from natural 
products.

Nguta JM(1), Appiah-Opong R(2), Nyarko AK(2), Yeboah-Manu D(3), Addo PG(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Pathology, Noguchi Memorial Institute for Medical 
Research, University of Ghana, Ghana; Department of Public Health, Pharmacology 
and Toxicology, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, University of Nairobi, Kenya.
(2)Department of Clinical Pathology, Noguchi Memorial Institute for Medical 
Research, University of Ghana, Ghana.
(3)Department of Bacteriology, Noguchi Memorial Institute for Medical Research, 
University of Ghana, Ghana.
(4)Department of Animal Experimentation, Noguchi Memorial Institute for Medical 
Research, University of Ghana, Ghana.

Currently, one third of the world's population is latently infected with 
Mycobacterium tuberculosis (MTB), while 8.9-9.9 million new and relapse cases of 
tuberculosis (TB) are reported yearly. The renewed research interests in natural 
products in the hope of discovering new and novel antitubercular leads have been 
driven partly by the increased incidence of multidrug-resistant strains of MTB 
and the adverse effects associated with the first- and second-line 
antitubercular drugs. Natural products have been, and will continue to be a rich 
source of new drugs against many diseases. The depth and breadth of therapeutic 
agents that have their origins in the secondary metabolites produced by living 
organisms cannot be compared with any other source of therapeutic agents. 
Discovery of new chemical molecules against active and latent TB from natural 
products requires an interdisciplinary approach, which is a major challenge 
facing scientists in this field. In order to overcome this challenge, cutting 
edge techniques in mycobacteriology and innovative natural product chemistry 
tools need to be developed and used in tandem. The present review provides a 
cross-linkage to the most recent literature in both fields and their potential 
to impact the early phase of drug discovery against TB if seamlessly combined.

Copyright © 2015 Asian African Society for Mycobacteriology. Published by 
Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijmyco.2015.05.004
PMID: 27649863 [Indexed for MEDLINE]