[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: laser surgery LASIK corneal refractive outcome | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: laser surgery LASIK corneal refractive outcome]

23. Curr Opin Ophthalmol. 2008 Jul;19(4):314-20. doi:
10.1097/ICU.0b013e328302ccae.

Wavefront-guided customized corneal ablation.

Kim A(1), Chuck RS.

Author information:
(1)The Wilmer Eye Institute, Lutherville, Maryland 21093, USA.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: This review highlights some of the advantages and limitations 
with our current wavefront technology and reviews the evidence supporting the 
efficacy and safety of wavefront-guided corneal ablations.
RECENT FINDINGS: While older studies often assessed visual outcomes based upon 
visual acuity, recent studies incorporate more sensitive parameters to assess 
quality of vision and to better understand the impact of high-order aberrations. 
Recently, the US Food and Drug Administration approved wavefront-guided 
monovision for mild to moderate myopia. Advances in wavefront sensing and laser 
technology continue to improve outcomes with wavefront-guided corneal ablations 
in primary treatments and enhancements. In addition to ablations based upon 
mapping of total ocular aberrations, customized ablations that integrate 
topographical data appear to be promising. Lastly, femtosecond laser technology 
allows for flap creation that induces less change in high-order aberrations and 
corneal biomechanics.
SUMMARY: Wavefront guided customized corneal ablations are safe, effective, and 
predictable. Compared with conventional treatments, wavefront-guided ablations 
can achieve a reduction in preexisting higher-order aberrations and less 
induction of new higher-order aberrations, resulting in improved outcomes with 
contrast sensitivity and visual symptoms under mesopic and scotopic conditions. 
Wavefront technology is still evolving to address current limitations and to 
optimize customization of corneal ablations.

DOI: 10.1097/ICU.0b013e328302ccae
PMID: 18545014 [Indexed for MEDLINE]