[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: cannabis cannabidiol therapeutic epilepsy pain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: cannabis cannabidiol therapeutic epilepsy pain]

82. Front Psychiatry. 2021 Aug 26;12:583211. doi: 10.3389/fpsyt.2021.583211. 
eCollection 2021.

A Review of the Potential Use of Pinene and Linalool as Terpene-Based Medicines 
for Brain Health: Discovering Novel Therapeutics in the Flavours and Fragrances 
of Cannabis.

Weston-Green K(1)(2)(3), Clunas H(1)(2)(3), Jimenez Naranjo C(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Neurohorizons Laboratory, Molecular Horizons and School of Medicine, Faculty 
of Science, Medicine and Health, University of Wollongong, Wollongong, NSW, 
Australia.
(2)Illawarra Health and Medical Research Institute, Wollongong, NSW, Australia.
(3)Australian Centre for Cannabinoid Clinical and Research Excellence (ACRE), 
New Lambton Heights, NSW, Australia.

"Medicinal cannabis" is defined as the use of cannabis-based products for the 
treatment of an illness. Investigations of cannabis compounds in psychiatric and 
neurological illnesses primarily focus on the major cannabinoids, cannabidiol 
(CBD) and Δ9-tetrahydrocannabinol (Δ9-THC), which are hypothesised to benefit 
multiple illnesses manifesting cognitive impairment, neurodegeneration and 
neuro-inflammation, as well as chronic pain, epilepsy and post-traumatic stress 
disorder, respectively. The cannabis plant contains >500 compounds, including 
terpenes responsible for the flavour and fragrance profiles of plants. Recently, 
research has begun providing evidence on the potential use of certain 
plant-derived terpenes in modern medicine, demonstrating anti-oxidant, 
anti-inflammatory, and neuroprotective effects of these compounds. This review 
examined the effects of two key terpenes, pinene and linalool, on parameters 
relevant to neurological and psychiatric disorders, highlighting gaps in the 
literature and recommendations for future research into terpene therapeutics. 
Overall, evidence is mostly limited to preclinical studies and well-designed 
clinical trials are lacking. Nevertheless, existing data suggests that pinene 
and linalool are relevant candidates for further investigation as novel 
medicines for illnesses, including stroke, ischemia, inflammatory and 
neuropathic pain (including migraine), cognitive impairment (relevant to 
Alzheimer's disease and ageing), insomnia, anxiety, and depression. Linalool and 
pinene influence multiple neurotransmitter, inflammatory and neurotrophic 
signals as well as behaviour, demonstrating psycho-activity (albeit 
non-intoxicating). Optimising the phytochemical profile of cannabis chemovars to 
yield therapeutic levels of beneficial terpenes and cannabinoids, such as 
linalool, pinene and CBD, could present a unique opportunity to discover novel 
medicines to treat psychiatric and neurological illnesses; however, further 
research is needed.

Copyright © 2021 Weston-Green, Clunas and Jimenez Naranjo.

DOI: 10.3389/fpsyt.2021.583211
PMCID: PMC8426550
PMID: 34512404

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.