[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: Sambucus nigra | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Sambucus nigra — Overview

prescription drugs. Uses The dark blue or purple berries are mildly poisonous in their raw state, but are edible after cooking. They can be used to make jam, jelly, chutney, and Pontack sauce. In Scandinavia and Germany, soup made from the elderberry (e.g. the German Fliederbeersuppe) is a traditional meal. Commonly, the flowerheads are used in infusions, giving a drink in Northern Europe and the Balkans. These drinks are sold commercially as elderflower cordial or elderflower pressé . In Europe, the flowers are made into a syrup or cordial (in Romanian: Socată, in Swedish: fläder(blom)saft, in Danish: hyldeblomstsaft / hyldedrik), which is diluted with water before drinking. The popularity of this traditional drink recently has encouraged some commercial soft drink producers to introduce elderflower-flavoured drinks (Fanta Shokata, Freaky Fläder). The flowers also may be dipped into a light batter and then fried to make elderflower fritters. The berries may be made into elderberry wine. In Hungary, an elderberry brandy is made that requires 50 kilograms of fruit to produce 1 litre of brandy. In south-western Sweden, it is traditional to make a snaps liqueur flavoured with elderflower. Elderflowers are used in liqueurs such as St-Germain, and in a mildly alcoholic sparkling elderflower 'champagne', although a more alcoholic home-made version can be made. In Beerse, Belgium, a variety of jenever called beers vlierke is made from the berries. Traditional medicine 

This plant is used in traditional medicine by native peoples and herbalists. Extracts of the flowers and fruits are used for cold and flu symptoms, although there is no high-quality clinical evidence that it is effective for treating any disease. References

Further reading
 
Rushforth, K. (1999). Trees of Britain and Europe. HarperCollins . External links

nigra
Berries
Flora of Europe
Flora of Northern America
Flora of temperate Asia
Flora of the Eastern United States
Flora of the Western United States
Plants described in 1753
Taxa named by Carl Linnaeus
Medicinal plants
Garden plants of Asia
Garden plants of Europe
Garden plants of North America
Edible fruits
Flora of Algeria
Flora without expected TNC conservation status