[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: cannabis cannabidiol therapeutic epilepsy pain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: cannabis cannabidiol therapeutic epilepsy pain]

89. J Psychopharmacol. 2023 Dec;37(12):1201-1208. doi: 10.1177/02698811231209192.
 Epub 2023 Nov 8.

The potential for medicinal cannabis to help manage challenging behaviour in 
people with intellectual disability: A perspective review.

Korb L(1), Tromans S(2)(3), Perera B(4)(5), Khan N(6), Burrows L(7), Laugharne 
R(8), Hassiotis A(5), Allgar V(9), Efron D(10)(11)(12), Maidment I(13), Shankar 
R(8)(9).

Author information:
(1)Haringey Learning Disability Partnership, Barnet Enfield and Haringey Mental 
Health NHS Trust, London, UK.
(2)Department of Population Health Sciences, University of Leicester, Leicester, 
UK.
(3)Adult Learning Disability Service, Leicestershire Partnership NHS Trust, 
Leicester, UK.
(4)North East London NHS Foundation Trust, London, UK.
(5)Division of Psychiatry, University College London, London, UK.
(6)Centre for Addiction and Mental Health, Toronto, Canada.
(7)Royal Cornwall Hospitals NHS Trust, Truro, UK.
(8)Cornwall Intellectual Disability Equitable Research (CIDER), University of 
Plymouth Peninsula School of Medicine, Truro, UK.
(9)Peninsula Clinical Trials Unit, Faculty of Health, University of Plymouth, 
Truro, UK.
(10)Royal Children's Hospital, Melbourne, Australia.
(11)Murdoch Children's Research Institute, Melbourne, Australia.
(12)Department of Paediatrics, University of Melbourne, Melbourne, Australia.
(13)College of Life and Health Sciences, Aston School of Pharmacy, Aston 
University, Birmingham, UK.

BACKGROUND: Around 2% of the population have intellectual disabilities. Over 
one-third people with intellectual disabilities (PwID) present with 'challenging 
behaviour', which nosologically and diagnostically is an abstract concept. 
Challenging behaviour is influenced by a range of bio-psycho-social factors in a 
population, which is unable to suitably comprehend and/or communicate concerns. 
This predisposes to poor health and social outcomes. There is no evidence-based 
treatments for managing challenging behaviour. Cannabidiol (CBD) and 
tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) are being trialled for a range of disorders, which 
are over-represented in PwID and provoke challenging behaviours, such as severe 
epilepsy, spasticity, post-traumatic stress disorder, social phobia, pain, etc.
METHODS: This perspective review explores the different conditions, which 
benefit from medicinal CBD/THC preparations, by analysing recent literature from 
neurobiological, pre-clinical and clinical studies related to the topic. The 
evidence is synthesised to build an argument of the therapeutic benefits and 
challenges of medicinal cannabis to manage severe challenging behaviour in PwID.
RESULTS: There is developing evidence of medicinal CBD/THC improving psychiatric 
and behavioural presentations in general. In particular, there is emergent proof 
in certain key areas of influence of medicinal CBD/THC positively supporting 
challenging behaviour, for example in children with neurodevelopmental 
disorders. However, there are significant challenges in employing such 
treatments in vulnerable populations such as PwID.
CONCLUSION: Further clinical research for the considered use of medicinal 
CBD/THC for challenging behaviour management in PwID is needed. Strong 
co-production with experts with lived experience is needed for further testing 
to be done in this exciting new area.

DOI: 10.1177/02698811231209192
PMCID: PMC10714688
PMID: 37937428 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsThe authors 
declared the following potential conflicts of interest with respect to the 
research, authorship, and/or publication of this article: LK works privately 
half a day a week for Sapphire Clinics https://www.sapphireclinics.com/ which is 
a medicinal cannabis prescribing private clinic. She also runs a cannabinoid 
peer group in her Trust. She has contributed to the Volteface-led report for the 
All-Party Parliamentary Group exploring the need for appropriate and 
indication-specific prescribing of cannabis medications in the UK. RS has 
received institutional and research support from LivaNova, UCB, Eisai, Veriton 
Pharma, Bial, Angelini, UnEEG and Jazz/GW pharma outside the submitted work. No 
other author has any notable disclosures.