[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: traditional Chinese medicine herbs mechanism actio | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: traditional Chinese medicine herbs mechanism action]

29. J Ethnopharmacol. 2017 Feb 23;198:45-63. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2016.12.042. Epub
 2016 Dec 28.

Traditional Chinese medicine for pulmonary fibrosis therapy: Progress and future 
prospects.

Li LC(1), Kan LD(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, Sir Run Run Shaw Hospital, School of Medicine, 
Zhejiang University, Hangzhou 310016, China. Electronic address: 
liliuchengayd@163.com.
(2)Department of Pharmacy, Sir Run Run Shaw Hospital, School of Medicine, 
Zhejiang University, Hangzhou 310016, China. Electronic address: 
kanliandi@163.com.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Pulmonary fibrosis (PF) is a chronic, 
debilitating and often lethal lung disorder. Despite the molecular mechanisms of 
PF are gradually clear with numerous researchers' efforts, few effective drugs 
have been developed to reverse human PF or even halt the chronic progression to 
respiratory failure. Traditional Chinese medicine (TCM), the main component of 
the medical practice used for more than 5000 years especially in China, often 
exerts wider action spectrum than previously attempted options in treating human 
diseases. Recent data have shown the anti-fibrotic benefits of the active 
ingredients from TCM in this field, which may represent an attractive source of 
the drug discovery against PF.
AIM OF THE REVIEW: This review summarizes the pre-clinical and clinical evidence 
on the benefits of TCM and their active ingredients, and provides a 
comprehensive information and reliable basis for the exploration of new 
treatment strategies of botanical drugs in the therapy of PF.
METHODS: The literature information was obtained from the scientific databases 
on ethnobotany and ethno medicines (up to Aug 2016), mainly from the Pubmed, Web 
of Science and CNKI databases, and was to identify the experimental studies on 
the anti-fibrotic role of the active agents from TCM and the involved 
mechanisms. The search keywords for such work included: "lung fibrosis" or 
"pulmonary fibrosis", and "traditional Chinese medicine", "extract" or "herb".
RESULTS: A number of studies have shown that the active agents of single herbs 
and TCM formulas, particularly the flavonoids, glycosides and alkaloids, exhibit 
potential benefits against PF, the mechanisms of which appear to involve the 
regulation of inflammation, oxidant stress, and pro-fibrotic signaling pathways, 
etc. Besides, the processing methods for discovering TCM in treating PF were 
prospectively discussed.
CONCLUSION: These research work have shown the therapeutic benefits of TCM in 
the treatment of PF. However, more continued researches should be undertaken to 
clarify the unconfirmed chemical composition and regulatory mechanisms, conduct 
standard clinical trials, and evaluate the possible side effects. The insights 
provided in present review will be needed for further exploration of botanical 
drugs in the development of PF therapy.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2016.12.042
PMCID: PMC7127743
PMID: 28038955 [Indexed for MEDLINE]