[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: Voigt effect | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Voigt effect — Overview

are: Calculation of rotation angle The rotation angle and the ellipticity angle are defined from the ratio with the two following formulae: where and represent the real and imaginary part of . Using the two previously calculated components, one obtains: This gives for the Voigt rotation: which can also be rewritten in the case of , , and real: where is the difference of refraction indices. Consequently, one obtains something proportional to  and which depends on the incident linear polarisation. For proper  no Voigt rotation can be observed. is proportional to the square of the magnetization since  and . Transmission geometry 
The calculation of the rotation of the Voigt effect in transmission is in principle equivalent to the one of the Faraday effect. In practice, this configuration is not used in general for ferromagnetic samples since the absorption length is weak in this kind of material. However, the use of transmission geometry is more common for paramagnetic liquid or cristal where the light can travel easily inside the material. The calculation for a paramagnetic material is exactly the same with respect to a ferromagnetic one, except that the magnetization is replaced by a field  ( in  or ). For convenience, the field will be added at the end of calculation in the magneto-optical parameters. Consider the transmitted electromagnetic waves  propagating in a medium of length L. From equation (5), one obtains for  and :

At the position , the expression of  is:

where  and are the eigenvectors previously calculated, and  is the difference for the two refraction indices. The rotation is then calculated from the ratio , with development in first order in  and second order in . This gives:

Again we obtain something proportional to  and , the light propagation length. Let us notice that  is proportional to  in the same way with respect to the geometry in reflexion for the magnetization. In order to extract the Voigt rotation, we consider ,  and  real. Then we have to calculate the real part of (14). The resulting expression is then inserted in (8). In the approximation of no absorption, one obtains for the Voigt rotation in transmission geometry:

Illustration of Voigt effect in GaMnAs 

As an illustration of the application of the Voigt effect, we give an example in the magnetic semiconductor  where a large Voigt effect was observed. At low temperatures (in general for ) for a material with an in-plane magnetization,  exhibits a biaxial anisotropy with the magnetization aligned along (or close to) <100> directions. A typical hysteresis cycle containing the Voigt effect is shown in figure 1. This cycle was obtained by sending a linearly polarized light along the [110] direction with an incident angle of approximately 3° (more details can be found in ), and measuring the rotation due to magneto-optical effects of the reflected light beam. In contrast to the common longitudinal/polar Kerr effect, the hysteresis cycle is even with respect to the magnetization, which is a signature of the Voigt effect. This cycle was obtained with a light incidence very close to normal, and it also exhibits a small odd part; a correct treatment has to be carried out in order to extract the symmetric part of the hysteresis corresponding to the Voigt effect, and the asymmetric part corresponding to the longitudinal Kerr effect. In the case of the hysteresis presented here, the field was applied along the [1-10] direction. The switching mechanism is as follows:

 We start with a high negative field and the magnetization is close to the [-1-10] direction at position 1. The magnetic field is decreasing leading to a coherent magnetization rotation from 1 to 2
 At positive field, the magnetization switch brutally from 2 to 3 by nucleation and propagation of magnetic domains giving a first coercive field named here 
 The magnetization stay close to the state 3 while rotating coherently to the state 4, closer from the applied field direction. Again the magnetization switches abruptly from 4 to 5 by nucleation and propagation of magnetic domains. This switching is due to the fact that the final equilibrium position is closer from the state 5 with respect to the state 4 (and so his magnetic energy is lower). This gives another coercive field named 
 Finally the magnetization rotates coherently from the state 5 to the state 6. The simulation of this scenario is given in the figure 2, with

As one can see, the simulated hysteresis is qualitatively the same with respect to the experimental one. Notice that the amplitude at  or  are approximately twice of

See also 
 Atomic line filter
 Cotton–Mouton effect
 Faraday effect

References

Further reading
 Zhao, Zhong-Quan. Excited state atomic line filters. Retrieved March 26, 2006. Magneto-optic effects
Polarization (waves)