[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Propulsion Mechanics | Topic: Aérospatiale Corvette | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Aérospatiale Corvette — Overview

18 seats; however, production of the Corvette had been terminated prior to any having been constructed. Operational history A number of Corvettes were sold and operated by several French regional airlines, such as Air Alsace, Air Alpes, Air Champagne and TAT. Sterling Airways of Denmark was another airliner that also operated the type. One Corvette was used as a VIP transport by the Congolese Air Force. By January 2009, a small number of Corvettes remained active in Europe and Africa, including one (F-GPLA cn 28) in France that had been fitted out for aerial photography missions. This Corvette was later used during high speed tests of the TGV high speed train, serving as a chase aircraft. Airbus Industrie operated a fleet of five Corvettes for internal transportation purposes between 1981 and 2009. Variants
SN 600
The first Corvette prototype, powered by two 2,200 lbf (9.8 kN) thrust Pratt & Whitney Canada JT15D-1 turbofan engines. SN 601
Production version with longer fuselage than SN 600 and 2,500 lb (11.10004 kN) thrust JT15D-4 engines. 39 built, including two prototypes. Operators

Aerospatiale SN-601 Corvette

Air Benin
Force Aerienne Populaire de Benin

Aero Service

Aalborg Airtaxi
North Flying AS
Sterling Airways
Air Marine

Drenair
Gestair Executive Jet
Teire S.A. Mayoral
Aeropublic

Aero Vision
Air Alpes
Air Alsace
Airbus Industrie
Continentale Air Service
Eurocopter
Gallic Aviation 
Musee de l'Air et de l'Espace
TAT European Airlines
TAT Transport Aerien Transregional
Uni-Air

 Republic of Mali Air Force. Air National Aircraft Sales & Service Inc. Midwest Air Charter (Airborne Express)

Jetstar Holland

Libyan Air Ambulance

Air Inter Gabon

Aeromarine

Baltic Aviation Inc. Accidents

Including the prototype SN 600, a total of eight Corvettes are recorded as having been written-off in crashes. The worst loss of life in a Corvette crash was on 3 September 1979, when an SN 601 of Sterling Airways crashed in the Mediterranean Sea off Nice following a double engine failure. All ten occupants were killed. Specifications (SN 601)

See also

References

Citations

Bibliography

 
 Phillips, Almarin., A. Paul Phillips and Thomas R. Phillips. Biz Jets: Technology and Market Structure in the Corporate Jet Aircraft Industry. Springer Science & Business Media, 2012. . 1970s French business aircraft
Corvette
Aircraft first flown in 1970
Twinjets
Low-wing aircraft
Cruciform tail aircraft