[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: The Herbalist — Meyer | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# The Herbalist — Meyer — Overview

gives us a warrant of attorney, as he must in the end, I know his employers will see it paid, so we may as well get all we can out of him, Mr. Wicks; it's a Christian act to do it, Mr. Wicks, for with his large family and small income he'll be all the better for a good lesson against getting into debt--won't he, Mr. Wicks, won't he?' and he smiled so good-naturedly as he went away
   that it was delightful to see him. 'He is a capital man of business,'
   said Wicks, in a tone of the deepest admiration; 'capital, isn't he?'"

Mr. Fogg, we are told, was an elderly, pimply-faced, vegetable diet sort
of man, in a black coat, and dark-mixtured trousers; and Mr. Dodson was a
plump, portly, stern-looking man, with a loud voice. And it was from
these worthies that Mr. Pickwick had received a letter dated the 28th of
August, 1827. FREEMAN'S COURT, CORNHILL. _Bardell against Pickwick_. SIR,--Having been instructed by Mrs. Martha Bardell to commence an
   action against you for a breach of promise of marriage, for which the
   plaintiff lays her damages at fifteen hundred pounds, we beg to inform
   you that a writ has been issued against you in this suit in the Court
   of Common Pleas, and request to know, by return of post, the name of
   your attorney in London, who will accept service thereof. We are, Sir,
   Your obedient servants,
   DODSON AND FOGG. MR. SAMUEL PICKWICK. I am bound to say that Mr. Pickwick did not conduct himself with his
usual dignity on the occasion of his interview on the subject of this
letter. The two sharp practitioners had certainly commenced an action
against him on grounds which, though definite, were wholly inadequate. But in this alone there was nothing to justify the very violent language
of Mr. Pickwick. "Very well, gentlemen, very well," said Mr. Pickwick, rising in person
   and wrath at the same time; "you shall hear from my solicitor,
   gentlemen."

   "We shall be very happy to do so," said Fogg, rubbing his hands. "Very," said Dodson, opening the door. "And before I go, gentlemen," said the excited Mr. Pickwick, turning
   round on the landing, "permit me to say, that of all the disgraceful
   and rascally proceedings--"

   "Stay, sir, stay," interposed Dodson, with great politeness. "Mr. Jackson! Mr. Wicks!"

   "Sir," said the two clerks, appearing at the bottom of the stairs. "I merely want you to hear what this gentleman says," replied Dodson. "Pray go on, sir--disgraceful and rascally proceedings, I think you
   said?"

   "I did," said Mr. Pickwick, thoroughly roused. "I said, sir, that of
   all the disgraceful and rascally proceedings that ever were attempted
   this is the most so. I repeat it, sir."

   "You hear that, Mr. Wicks?" said Dodson. "You won't forget these expressions, Mr. Jackson?" said Fogg. "Perhaps you would like to call us swindlers, sir," said Dodson. "Pray
   do, sir, if you feel disposed; now pray do, sir."

   "I do," said Mr. Pickwick. "You _are_ swindlers."

   "Very good," said Dodson. "You can hear down there, I hope, Mr. Wicks?"

   "Oh, yes, sir," said Wicks. "You had better come up a step or two higher if you can't," added Mr. Fogg. "Go on, sir; do go on. You had better call us thieves, sir; or
   perhaps you would like to assault one of us. Pray do it, sir, if you
   would; we will not make the slightest resistance. Pray do it, sir."

   As Fogg put himself very temptingly within the reach of Mr. Pickwick's
   clenched fist there is little doubt that gentleman would have complied
   with his earnest entreaty but for the interposition of Sam, who,
   hearing the dispute, emerged from the office, mounted the stairs, and
   seized his master by the arm. "You just come avay," said Mr. Weller. "Battledore and shuttlecock's
   a wery good game, when you ain't the shuttlecock and two lawyers the
   battledores, in which case it gets too excitin' to be pleasant. Come
   avay, sir. If you want to ease your mind by blowing up somebody come
   out into the court and blow up me; but it's rayther too expensive work
   to be carried on here."

With that good advice Mr. Weller took Mr. Pickwick away from the lawyers'
office. But before we say anything about the trial itself let me
introduce to you another solicitor not so well known as either Perker or
Dodson and Fogg, but to my mind the most interesting as he certainly is
the most humorous. Mr. Pell had the honour of being the legal adviser of Mr. Weller, Senior. The latter gentleman always stoutly maintained that if Mr. Pickwick had
had the services of Mr. Pell, and had established an _alibi_, the great
case of Bardell against Pickwick would have been decided otherwise. Mr. Pell practised in the Insolvency Court. He "was a fat, flabby, pale man,
in a surtout which looked green one moment, and brown the next, with a
velvet collar of the same chameleon tints. His forehead was narrow, his
face wide, his head large, and his nose all on one side, as if Nature,
indignant with the propensities she observed in him at his birth, had
given it an angry tweak which it had never recovered.