[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: List of EastEnders characters (2004) | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# List of EastEnders characters (2004) — Overview

attend the christening, however the service is interrupted by Ray, who viciously drags his wife and son away whilst a heartbroken Demi looks on. The christening continues back at Clint's (Huggy Leaver) flat, and Demi and Leo meet later that evening from their balconies. As the feud between the Millers and the Taylors escalates, Leo plans to run away, and begs Demi to come with him. Demi agrees, but Leo abandons her when she insists on taking Aleesha. Demi returns to Walford, devastated, but is delighted when she meets Leo near the swings. Leo promises her he will keep in contact, and will wait as long as it takes to be with her. Leo, Demi and Aleesha run away, and Leo starts dealing drugs. Demi takes some of the drugs to numb her pain and she passes out. Leo returns to her and thinks she has died, so takes a heroin overdose and dies in hospital. Leo and Demi's storyline was likened to Romeo and Juliet by Jane Simon of the Daily Mirror. Stacey Slater

Stacey Slater, played by Lacey Turner, made her first appearance on 1 November 2004. The character is introduced as a feisty and troublesome teenager, an extension of the already established Slater clan. She features in numerous high-profile storylines, including abortion, drug abuse, mental illness, an affair with her father-in-law Max (Jake Wood) and the murder of Archie Mitchell (Larry Lamb). In 2010, Stacey is involved in a love triangle with local resident Janine Butcher (Charlie Brooks) and Ryan Malloy (Neil McDermott), the father of her daughter Lily. Janine discovers that she murdered Archie and blackmails her, which forces Stacey to flee the country with Lily on Christmas Day 2010. Freddie Slater

Freddie Slater (also Mitchell),  played by twins Alex and Tom Kilby, was conceived in late 2003 when his mother, Little Mo Slater (Kacey Ainsworth), was raped by her friend, Graham Foster (Alex McSweeney). Her refusal to abort the baby caused the breakdown of her marriage to her husband Billy Mitchell (Perry Fenwick). Little Mo stayed with her older sister, Belinda Peacock (Leanne Lakey/Carli Norris) in Kent, where she gave birth to Freddie. After Graham is sentenced to eight years imprisonment, Little Mo and Billy make another attempt at their marriage, but they separate again after Billy admits that he is struggling to accept Freddie. Freddie then lives at the Slater family household with Little Mo, her sister Kat (Jessie Wallace), her grandmother Big Mo (Laila Morse), her father Charlie (Derek Martin) and her second cousin Stacey (Lacey Turner). Freddie goes to hospital seriously ill with bleeding on the brain. A few days before the hospital admission, Little Mo admits to her boyfriend Oliver Cousins (Tom Ellis), who is also a GP, that she sometimes gets very irritated with Freddie when he cries. When Oliver hears that Freddie's injury must have been caused by shaking or rough handling, he admits what Little Mo has told him to a paediatrician, Briony Campbell (Rae Hendrie), at the hospital. While the hospital believes that Little Mo may have shaken Freddie, Little Mo suspects that Ben Mitchell (Charlie Jones) may have hurt him in some way as they were left unsupervised together just before the incident. Little Mo confronts Ben and shakes him in irritation when he tries to run away. After extensive tests at the hospital, it is discovered that Freddie has a temporary low platelet count, due to an infection, meaning that any minor injury could hurt him badly, as his blood is not clotting properly. Little Mo is no longer suspected of hurting Freddie. Freddie later leaves Walford with Little Mo, who wants to start a new life in Barnstaple, Devon. Freddie returns to Walford in September 2022, having decided to track down Billy, whom he believes is his father, after having an argument with Little Mo. Billy keeps up the pretence of being his father, to the annoyance of his partner Honey Mitchell (Emma Barton), so as not to hurt Freddie. Freddie starts to bond with his assumed half-siblings Janet (Grace) and Will (Freddie Phillips), and even steals a fascinator Janet has her eye on to make her happy. When Billy is arrested for the murder of Malcolm Keeble and needs money to hire a good solicitor, Freddie becomes determined to help him out and gets a job at the local fish and chip shop, having lied to Bobby Beale (Clay Milner Russell) that he has loads of experience. Despite getting off to a bad start, Bobby gives him another chance and Freddie becomes an instant success with the customers. Freddie initially lives with his aunt Kat and her fiancé, Phil Mitchell (Steve McFadden) but after Phil tells him that Billy is not his father, a rift develops between them and he moves in with Stacey and her family, eventually joined by Kat's ex-husband, Alfie Moon (Shane Richie). Billy explains to Freddie that while it is true he is not his father, he wishes that he was and if it is not too late, would like to act as a surrogate father to him, which Freddie accepts. Due to his cheerful and laid back personality, Freddie soon settles into life in Walford and becomes close friends with Bobby as well as building solid relationships with Stacey, her mother Jean Slater (Gillian Wright) and Alfie, the latter of whom he later moves into Harvey Monroe's (Ross Boatman) former flat with.