[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: traditional Chinese medicine herbs mechanism actio | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: traditional Chinese medicine herbs mechanism action]

27. J Ethnopharmacol. 2021 Mar 1;267:113383. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2020.113383. Epub
 2020 Sep 9.

Studying CNS effects of Traditional Chinese Medicine using zebrafish models.

Wang D(1), Hu G(1), Wang J(1), Yan D(1), Wang M(1), Yang L(1), Serikuly N(1), 
Alpyshov E(1), Demin KA(2), Galstyan DS(3), Amstislavskaya TG(4), de Abreu 
MS(5), Kalueff AV(6).

Author information:
(1)School of Pharmacy, Southwest University, Chongqing, China.
(2)Institute of Experimental Medicine, Almazov National Medical Research Centre, 
Ministry of Healthcare of Russian Federation, St. Petersburg, Russia; Institute 
of Translational Biomedicine, St. Petersburg State University, St. Petersburg, 
Russia.
(3)Granov Russian Scientific Research Center of Radiology and Surgical 
Technologies, Ministry of Healthcare of Russian Federation, St. Petersburg, 
Russia; Laboratory of Cell and Molecular Biology and Neurobiology, Moscow 
Institute of Physics and Technology, Moscow, Russia.
(4)Scientific Research Institute of Physiology and Basic Medicine, Novosibirsk, 
Russia; Zelman Institute of Medicine and Psychology, Novosibirsk State 
University, Novosibirsk, Russia.
(5)Bioscience Institute, University of Passo Fundo, Passo Fundo, Brazil; 
Laboratory of Cell and Molecular Biology and Neurobiology, Moscow Institute of 
Physics and Technology, Moscow, Russia. Electronic address: 
abreu_murilo@hotmail.com.
(6)School of Pharmacy, Southwest University, Chongqing, China; Ural Federal 
University, Ekaterinburg, Russia. Electronic address: avkalueff@gmail.com.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Although Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM) has 
a millennia-long history of treating human brain disorders, its complex 
multi-target mechanisms of action remain poorly understood. Animal models are 
currently widely used to probe the effects of various TCMs on brain and 
behavior. The zebrafish (Danio rerio) has recently emerged as a novel vertebrate 
model organism for neuroscience research, and is increasingly applied for CNS 
drug screening and development.
AIM OF THE STUDY: As zebrafish models are only beginning to be applied to 
studying TCM, we aim to provide a comprehensive review of the TCM effects on 
brain and behavior in this fish model species.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A comprehensive search of published literature was 
conducted using biomedical databases (Web of Science, Pubmed, Sciencedirect, 
Google Scholar and China National Knowledge Internet, CNKI), with key search 
words zebrafish, brain, Traditional Chinese Medicine, herbs, CNS, behavior.
RESULTS: We recognize the developing utility of zebrafish for studying TCM, as 
well as outline the existing model limitations, problems and challenges, as well 
as future directions of research in this field.
CONCLUSIONS: We demonstrate the growing value of zebrafish models for studying 
TCM, aiming to improve our understanding of TCM' therapeutic mechanisms and 
potential in treating brain disorders.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2020.113383
PMID: 32918992 [Indexed for MEDLINE]