[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: graphene biomedical applications toxicity review | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: graphene biomedical applications toxicity review]

52. Chem Res Toxicol. 2014 Feb 17;27(2):159-68. doi: 10.1021/tx400385x. Epub 2014
 Jan 14.

Nanotoxicity of graphene and graphene oxide.

Seabra AB(1), Paula AJ, de Lima R, Alves OL, Durán N.

Author information:
(1)Exact and Earth Sciences Department, Universidade Federal de São Paulo , 
Diadema, São Paulo, Brazil.

Graphene and its derivatives are promising candidates for important biomedical 
applications because of their versatility. The prospective use of graphene-based 
materials in a biological context requires a detailed comprehension of the 
toxicity of these materials. Moreover, due to the expanding applications of 
nanotechnology, human and environmental exposures to graphene-based 
nanomaterials are likely to increase in the future. Because of the potential 
risk factors associated with the manufacture and use of graphene-related 
materials, the number of nanotoxicological studies of these compounds has been 
increasing rapidly in the past decade. These studies have researched the effects 
of the nanostructural/biological interactions on different organizational levels 
of the living system, from biomolecules to animals. This review discusses recent 
results based on in vitro and in vivo cytotoxicity and genotoxicity studies of 
graphene-related materials and critically examines the methodologies employed to 
evaluate their toxicities. The environmental impact from the manipulation and 
application of graphene materials is also reported and discussed. Finally, this 
review presents mechanistic aspects of graphene toxicity in biological systems. 
More detailed studies aiming to investigate the toxicity of graphene-based 
materials and to properly associate the biological phenomenon with their 
chemical, structural, and morphological variations that result from several 
synthetic and processing possibilities are needed. Knowledge about 
graphene-based materials could ensure the safe application of this versatile 
material. Consequently, the focus of this review is to provide a source of 
inspiration for new nanotoxicological approaches for graphene-based materials.

DOI: 10.1021/tx400385x
PMID: 24422439 [Indexed for MEDLINE]