[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: nanoparticle drug delivery tumor targeting cancer | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: nanoparticle drug delivery tumor targeting cancer]

4. Eur J Pharm Biopharm. 2015 Jun;93:52-79. doi: 10.1016/j.ejpb.2015.03.018. Epub
 2015 Mar 23.

Advanced targeted therapies in cancer: Drug nanocarriers, the future of 
chemotherapy.

Pérez-Herrero E(1), Fernández-Medarde A(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical Engineering, University of Salamanca (USAL), P/Los 
Caídos S/N, 37008 Salamanca, Spain. Electronic address: edgarpherrero@usal.es.
(2)Instituto de Biología Molecular y Celular del Cáncer, Centro de Investigación 
del Cáncer (USAL-CSIC), Campus Universitario Miguel de Unamuno S/N, 37007 
Salamanca, Spain.

Cancer is the second worldwide cause of death, exceeded only by cardiovascular 
diseases. It is characterized by uncontrolled cell proliferation and an absence 
of cell death that, except for hematological cancers, generates an abnormal cell 
mass or tumor. This primary tumor grows thanks to new vascularization and, in 
time, acquires metastatic potential and spreads to other body sites, which 
causes metastasis and finally death. Cancer is caused by damage or mutations in 
the genetic material of the cells due to environmental or inherited factors. 
While surgery and radiotherapy are the primary treatment used for local and 
non-metastatic cancers, anti-cancer drugs (chemotherapy, hormone and biological 
therapies) are the choice currently used in metastatic cancers. Chemotherapy is 
based on the inhibition of the division of rapidly growing cells, which is a 
characteristic of the cancerous cells, but unfortunately, it also affects normal 
cells with fast proliferation rates, such as the hair follicles, bone marrow and 
gastrointestinal tract cells, generating the characteristic side effects of 
chemotherapy. The indiscriminate destruction of normal cells, the toxicity of 
conventional chemotherapeutic drugs, as well as the development of multidrug 
resistance, support the need to find new effective targeted treatments based on 
the changes in the molecular biology of the tumor cells. These novel targeted 
therapies, of increasing interest as evidenced by FDA-approved targeted cancer 
drugs in recent years, block biologic transduction pathways and/or specific 
cancer proteins to induce the death of cancer cells by means of apoptosis and 
stimulation of the immune system, or specifically deliver chemotherapeutic 
agents to cancer cells, minimizing the undesirable side effects. Although 
targeted therapies can be achieved directly by altering specific cell signaling 
by means of monoclonal antibodies or small molecules inhibitors, this review 
focuses on indirect targeted approaches that mainly deliver chemotherapeutic 
agents to molecular targets overexpressed on the surface of tumor cells. In 
particular, we offer a detailed description of different cytotoxic drug 
carriers, such as liposomes, carbon nanotubes, dendrimers, polymeric micelles, 
polymeric conjugates and polymeric nanoparticles, in passive and active targeted 
cancer therapy, by enhancing the permeability and retention or by the 
functionalization of the surface of the carriers, respectively, emphasizing 
those that have received FDA approval or are part of the most important clinical 
studies up to date. These drug carriers not only transport the chemotherapeutic 
agents to tumors, avoiding normal tissues and reducing toxicity in the rest of 
the body, but also protect cytotoxic drugs from degradation, increase the 
half-life, payload and solubility of cytotoxic agents and reduce renal 
clearance. Despite the many advantages of all the anticancer drug carriers 
analyzed, only a few of them have reached the FDA approval, in particular, two 
polymer-protein conjugates, five liposomal formulations and one polymeric 
nanoparticle are available in the market, in contrast to the sixteen FDA 
approval of monoclonal antibodies. However, there are numerous clinical trials 
in progress of polymer-protein and polymer-drug conjugates, liposomal 
formulations, including immunoliposomes, polymeric micelles and polymeric 
nanoparticles. Regarding carbon nanotubes or dendrimers, there are no FDA 
approvals or clinical trials in process up to date due to their unresolved 
toxicity. Moreover, we analyze in detail the more promising and advanced 
preclinical studies of the particular case of polymeric nanoparticles as 
carriers of different cytotoxic agents to active and passive tumor targeting 
published in the last 5 years, since they have a huge potential in cancer 
therapy, being one of the most widely studied nano-platforms in this field in 
the last years. The interest that these formulations have recently achieved is 
stressed by the fact that 90% of the papers based on cancer therapeutics with 
polymeric nanoparticles have been published in the last 6 years (PubMed search).

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejpb.2015.03.018
PMID: 25813885 [Indexed for MEDLINE]