[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: curcumin anti-inflammatory clinical trial randomiz | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: curcumin anti-inflammatory clinical trial randomized]

57. J Food Biochem. 2022 May;46(5):e14093. doi: 10.1111/jfbc.14093. Epub 2022 Feb
 12.

Does nano-curcumin supplementation improve hematological indices in critically 
ill patients with sepsis? A randomized controlled clinical trial.

Naeini F(1), Tutunchi H(2)(3), Razmi H(4), Mahmoodpoor A(5), Vajdi M(6), 
Sefidmooye Azar P(7), Najifipour F(3), Tarighat-Esfanjani A(2), Karimi A(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Nutrition, School of Nutritional Sciences and 
Dietetics, Tehran University of Medical Science, Tehran, Iran.
(2)Nutrition Research Center, Department of Clinical Nutrition, School of 
Nutrition and Food Sciences, Tabriz University of Medical Sciences, Tabriz, 
Iran.
(3)Endoceine Research Center, Tabriz University of Medical Sciences, Tabriz, 
Iran.
(4)Student Research Committee, Ahvaz Jundishapur University of Medical Sciences, 
Ahvaz, Iran.
(5)Department of Anatomical Sciences, Faculty of Medicine, Birjand University of 
Medical Sciences, Birjand, Iran.
(6)Student Research Committee, Department of Clinical Nutrition, School of 
Nutrition and Food Science, Isfahan University of Medical Sciences, Isfahan, 
Iran.
(7)Department of Nutrition and Hospitality Management, School of Applied 
Sciences, The University of Mississippi, University Park, Mississippi, USA.

Sepsis is the final common pathway to death for severe infectious diseases 
worldwide. The present trial aimed to investigate the effects of nano-curcumin 
supplementation on hematological indices in critically ill patients with sepsis. 
Fourteen ICU-admitted patients were randomly allocated into either nano-curcumin 
or placebo group for 10 days. The blood indices, serum levels of inflammatory 
biomarker and presepsin as well as nutrition status, and clinical outcomes were 
assessed before the intervention and on days 5 and 10. White blood cells, 
neutrophils, platelets, erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR), and the levels of 
interleukin-8 significantly decreased in the nano-curcumin group compared to the 
placebo after 10 days of intervention (p = .024, p = .045, p = .017, p = .041, 
and p = .004, respectively). There was also a marginal meaningful decrease in 
serum presepsin levels in the intervention group compared to the placebo at the 
end of the study (p = .054). However, total lymphocyte count showed a 
significant increase in the nano-curcumin group compared to the placebo at the 
end-point (p = .04). No significant differences were found in the level of 
lymphocyte and the ratios of neutrophil/lymphocyte and platelet/lymphocyte 
between the study groups. Moreover, no significant between-group differences 
were observed for other study outcomes, post-intervention. Collectively, 
nano-curcumin may be a useful adjuvant therapy in critically ill patients with 
sepsis. However, further trials are suggested to examine the effects of 
nano-curcumin in the management of sepsis and its complications. PRACTICAL 
APPLICATIONS: Curcumin (1,7-bis[4-hydroxy-3-methoxyphenyl]-1,6-heptadiene-3,5- 
dione) or diferuloylmethane is widely used in medicine due to its several 
biological properties. Recent evidence has shown that curcumin possesses 
multiple pharmacological activities including immune-modulatory, antioxidant, 
anti-inflammatory, anti-cancer, and anti-microbial effects. In this study, it 
was observed that nano-curcumin at a dose of 160 mg for 10 days, without side 
effects, reduced some inflammatory factors and regulated the immune responses in 
sepsis patients. For the first time, this trial was conducted to determine the 
effect of nano-curcumin on hematological indices and the serum levels of 
presepsin and IL-8.

© 2022 Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1111/jfbc.14093
PMID: 35150143 [Indexed for MEDLINE]