[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: Current density | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Current density — Overview

at time , the distribution of charge flowing is described by the current density: where is the current density vector; is the particles' average drift velocity (SI unit: m∙s−1); is the charge density (SI unit: coulombs per cubic metre), in which is the number of particles per unit volume ("number density") (SI unit: m−3); is the charge of the individual particles with density (SI unit: coulombs). A common approximation to the current density assumes the current simply is proportional to the electric field, as expressed by:

where  is the electric field and  is the electrical conductivity. Conductivity  is the reciprocal (inverse) of electrical resistivity and has the SI units of siemens per metre (S⋅m−1), and  has the SI units of newtons per coulomb (N⋅C−1) or, equivalently, volts per metre (V⋅m−1). A more fundamental approach to calculation of current density is based upon:

indicating the lag in response by the time dependence of , and the non-local nature of response to the field by the spatial dependence of , both calculated in principle from an underlying microscopic analysis, for example, in the case of small enough fields, the linear response function for the conductive behaviour in the material. See, for example, Giuliani & Vignale (2005) or Rammer (2007). The integral extends over the entire past history up to the present time. The above conductivity and its associated current density reflect the fundamental mechanisms underlying charge transport in the medium, both in time and over distance. A Fourier transform in space and time then results in:

where  is now a complex function. In many materials, for example, in crystalline materials, the conductivity is a tensor, and the current is not necessarily in the same direction as the applied field. Aside from the material properties themselves, the application of magnetic fields can alter conductive behaviour. Polarization and magnetization currents
Currents arise in materials when there is a non-uniform distribution of charge. In dielectric materials, there is a current density corresponding to the net movement of electric dipole moments per unit volume, i.e. the polarization :

Similarly with magnetic materials, circulations of the magnetic dipole moments per unit volume, i.e. the magnetization , lead to magnetization currents:

Together, these terms add up to form the bound current density in the material (resultant current due to movements of electric and magnetic dipole moments per unit volume):

Total current in materials

The total current is simply the sum of the free and bound currents:

Displacement current
There is also a displacement current corresponding to the time-varying electric displacement field :

which is an important term in Ampere's circuital law, one of Maxwell's equations, since absence of this term would not predict electromagnetic waves to propagate, or the time evolution of electric fields in general. Continuity equation 

Since charge is conserved, current density must satisfy a continuity equation. Here is a derivation from first principles. The net flow out of some volume  (which can have an arbitrary shape but fixed for the calculation) must equal the net change in charge held inside the volume:

where  is the charge density, and  is a surface element of the surface  enclosing the volume . The surface integral on the left expresses the current outflow from the volume, and the negatively signed volume integral on the right expresses the decrease in the total charge inside the volume. From the divergence theorem:

Hence:

This relation is valid for any volume, independent of size or location, which implies that:

and this relation is called the continuity equation. In practice 
In electrical wiring, the maximum current density (for a given temperature rating) can vary from 4 A⋅mm−2 for a wire with no air circulation around it, to over 6 A⋅mm−2 for a wire in free air. Regulations for building wiring list the maximum allowed current of each size of cable in differing conditions. For compact designs, such as windings of SMPS transformers, the value might be as low as 2 A⋅mm−2. If the wire is carrying high-frequency alternating currents, the skin effect may affect the distribution of the current across the section by concentrating the current on the surface of the conductor. In transformers designed for high frequencies, loss is reduced if Litz wire is used for the windings. This is made of multiple isolated wires in parallel with a diameter twice the skin depth. The isolated strands are twisted together to increase the total skin area and to reduce the resistance due to skin effects. For the top and bottom layers of printed circuit boards,  the maximum current density can be as high as 35 A⋅mm−2 with a copper thickness of 35 μm. Inner layers cannot dissipate as much heat as outer layers; designers of circuit  boards avoid putting high-current traces on inner layers. In the semiconductors field, the maximum current densities for different elements are given by the manufacturer.