[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: Fighting Solidarity | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Fighting Solidarity — Overview

May 1988, Morawiecki and Kolodziej were deported from Poland. After a political trip to several countries (UK, France, Italy, USA), Morawiecki returned illegally to Poland and to the underground, once again assuming leadership of the Fighting Solidarity. In 1989, Fighting Solidarity opposed the agreement with the communists, which was joined by part of the opposition in Poland (the "round table"), motivated by moral and political reasons. In 1990, the Freedom Party was formed from among the activists and milieu of the Fighting Solidarity. The Freedom Party's candidate for president, Kornel Morawiecki, failed to collect the required 100,000 signatures after submitting his candidacy. During the televised election campaign, he demonstratively overturned the round table in front of TV cameras. The organization was formally dissolved in 1992. On January 17, 2007, the Combatant Solidarity Association was established. On June 15, 2007, 76 leading activists of Solidarność Walcząca were decorated with the Crosses of Rebirth of Poland by Polish President Lech Kaczyński. On July 4, 2009, in Vilnius, five activists of the Autonomous Eastern Department of Solidarność Walcząca were awarded the Medal of the Order for Meritorious Service to Lithuania by the President of Lithuania Valdas Adamkus (Jadwiga Chmielowska, Tadeusz Markiewicz, Maciej Ruszczyński, Piotr Pacholski, Piotr Hlebowicz). Organization 
The main figure, chairman and creator of the Fighting Solidarity's ideological foundations was Kornel Morawiecki. The founders of the SW and the most active activists in Wrocław included: Paweł Falicki, Michał Gabryel, Andrzej Kisielewicz, Maria Koziebrodzka, Romuald Lazarowicz, Piotr Bielawski, Cezariusz Lesisz, Halina Łopuszańska, Hanna Łukowska-Karniej, Zofia Maciejewska, Stanisław Mittek, Andrzej Myc, Wojciech Myślecki, Romuald Nowicki, Zbigniew Oziewicz, Jan Pawłowski, Barbara Sarapuk, Władysław Sidorowicz, Tadeusz Świerczewski, Andrzej Zarach. The SW was headed by a Council (mainly comprising the founders) and - since 1984. - Executive Committee. Among a dozen Fighting Solidarity branches, the strongest - besides Wroclaw - were Poznań, Gdańsk, Rzeszów and Upper Silesia. Leading activists outside Lower Silesia were Maciej Frankiewicz (Poznań), Marek Czachor, Andrzej Kołodziej, Roman Zwiercan and Ewa Kubasiewicz (Tricity), Sławomir Bugajski (Katowice), Janina Jadwiga Chmielowska (Sosnowiec), Krzysztof Korczak (Szczecin), Antoni Kopaczewski and Janusz Szkutnik (Rzeszów), Seweryn Jaworski, Krzysztof Wolf, Adam Cymborski and Adam Borowski (Warsaw), Marian Stachniuk and Piotr Hlebowicz (Cracow), Włodzimierz Domagalski-Łabędzki (Łódź). "Solidarność Walcząca" cells also existed in many other cities, including Zgorzelec, Częstochowa, Jelenia Góra, Kalisz, Kielce, Konin, Opole, Wałbrzych. In addition to regional structures, the SW also formed plant groups (including at the Cegielski Plant in Poznań, the Komuna-Paris Shipyard in Gdynia, the Gdańsk Shipyard, the "Wrozamet" in Wrocław, the Jelcz Car Works, and several Silesian and Walbrzych mines). The organization had about 2,000 members. Outside of Poland, Fighting Solidarity was represented by foreign representatives Tadeusz Warsza (Great Britain), Andrzej Wirga (Germany), Ewa Kubasiewicz (head of representation) and Rafał Gan-Ganowicz (France), Jerzy Jankowski (Norway), Kazimierz Michalczyk (West Berlin), Zbigniew Bełz (Canada), Jaroslaw Swiatek (USA). Fighting Solidarity’s agenda 
Solidarność Walcząca operated on the basis of the Program of the Organization of Solidarność Walcząca created since 1982, the most complete version of which was published in 1987. Since its inception, its program proclaimed the complete collapse of communism, the independence of Poland and other nations enslaved by communism, the independence of the Soviet republics, the unification of Germany while maintaining the post-war borders imposed by the Yalta order. In proposing a vision of Poland after the collapse of communism, Solidarność Walcząca emphasized the need for social solidarity and self-government, and appealed to values derived from the teachings of the Catholic Church. See also
 Confederation of Independent Poland (Konfederacja Polski Niepodległej)
 Cursed soldiers
 Orange Alternative (Pomarańczowa Alternatywa)

References

External links

 Fighting Solidarity, Institute of National Remembrance 
 Wolni i Solidarni, a portal dedicated to Fighting Solidarity 
 Kornel Morawiecki o swojej organizacji  
 "Solidarność Walcząca" w świetle materiałów Służby Bezpieczeństwa  

Anti-communism in Poland
Anti-communist organizations
Polish dissident organisations
National liberation movements
Solidarity (Polish trade union)