[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: cannabis cannabidiol therapeutic epilepsy pain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: cannabis cannabidiol therapeutic epilepsy pain]

43. Curr Clin Pharmacol. 2016;11(2):110-7. doi:
10.2174/1574884711666160418105339.

Endocannabinoid System: A Multi-Facet Therapeutic Target.

Kaur R(1), Ambwani SR, Singh S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, AIIMS, Jodhpur, Rajasthan, India. 
sidhurimple@yahoo.com.

Cannabis sativa is also popularly known as marijuana. It has been cultivated and 
used by man for recreational and medicinal purposes since many centuries. Study 
of cannabinoids was at bay for very long time and its therapeutic value could 
not be adequately harnessed due to its legal status as proscribed drug in most 
of the countries. The research of drugs acting on endocannabinoid system has 
seen many ups and downs in the recent past. Presently, it is known that 
endocannabinoids has role in pathology of many disorders and they also serve 
"protective role" in many medical conditions. Several diseases like emesis, 
pain, inflammation, multiple sclerosis, anorexia, epilepsy, glaucoma, 
schizophrenia, cardiovascular disorders, cancer, obesity, metabolic syndrome 
related diseases, Parkinson's disease, Huntington's disease, Alzheimer's disease 
and Tourette's syndrome could possibly be treated by drugs modulating 
endocannabinoid system. Presently, cannabinoid receptor agonists like nabilone 
and dronabinol are used for reducing the chemotherapy induced vomiting. Sativex 
(cannabidiol and THC combination) is approved in the UK, Spain and New Zealand 
to treat spasticity due to multiple sclerosis. In US it is under investigation 
for cancer pain, another drug Epidiolex (cannabidiol) is also under 
investigation in US for childhood seizures. Rimonabant, CB1 receptor antagonist 
appeared as a promising anti-obesity drug during clinical trials but it also 
exhibited remarkable psychiatric side effect profile. Due to which the US Food 
and Drug Administration did not approve Rimonabant in US. It sale was also 
suspended across the EU in 2008. Recent discontinuation of clinical trial 
related to FAAH inhibitor due to occurrence of serious adverse events in the 
participating subjects could be discouraging for the research fraternity. 
Despite some mishaps in clinical trials related to drugs acting on 
endocannabinoid system, still lot of research is being carried out to explore 
and establish the therapeutic targets for both cannabinoid receptor agonists and 
antagonists. One challenge is to develop drugs that target only cannabinoid 
receptors in a particular tissue and another is to invent drugs that act 
selectively on cannabinoid receptors located outside the blood brain barrier. 
Besides this, development of the suitable dosage forms with maximum efficacy and 
minimum adverse effects is also warranted. Another angle to be introspected for 
therapeutic abilities of this group of drugs is non-CB1 and non-CB2 receptor 
targets for cannabinoids. In order to successfully exploit the therapeutic 
potential of endocannabinoid system, it is imperative to further characterize 
the endocannabinoid system in terms of identification of the exact cellular 
location of cannabinoid receptors and their role as "protective" and "disease 
inducing substance", time-dependent changes in the expression of cannabinoid 
receptors.

DOI: 10.2174/1574884711666160418105339
PMID: 27086601 [Indexed for MEDLINE]