[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: Resonance fluorescence | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Resonance fluorescence — Overview

wave. It is easy to see that this is truly analogous to a real two-level atom due to the fact that the fluorescence appears in the spectrum as the Mollow triplet, precisely like a true two-level atom. These artificial atoms are often used to explore the phenomena of quantum coherence. This allows for the study of squeezed light which is known for creating more precise measurements. It is difficult to explore the resonance fluorescence of squeezed light in a typical two-level atom as all modes of the electromagnetic field must be squeezed which cannot easily be accomplished. In an artificial atom, the number of possible modes of the field is significantly limited allowing for easier study of squeezed light. In 2016 D.M. Toyli et al., performed an experiment in which two superconducting parametric amplifiers were used to generate squeezed light and then detect resonance fluorescence in artificial atoms from the squeezed light. Their results agreed strongly with the theory describing the phenomena. The implication of this study is it allows for resonance fluorescence to assist in qubit readout for squeezed light. The qubit used in the study was an aluminum transmon circuit that was then coupled to a 3-D aluminum cavity. Extra silicon chips were introduced to the cavity to assist in the tuning of resonance to that of the cavity. The majority of the detuning that did occur was a result of the degeneration of the qubit over time. Resonance fluorescence from a Semiconductor Quantum Dot
A quantum dot is a semiconductor nano-particle that is often used in quantum optical systems. This includes their ability to be placed in optical microcavities where they can act as two-level systems. In this process, quantum dots are placed in cavities which allow for the discretization of the possible energy states of the quantum dot coupled with the vacuum field. The vacuum field is then replaced by an excitation field and resonance fluorescence is observed. Current technology only allows for population of the dot in an excited state (not necessarily always the same), and relaxation of the quantum dot back to its ground state. Direct excitation followed by ground state collection was not achieved until recently. This is mainly due to the fact that as a result of the size of quantum dots, defects and contaminants create fluorescence of their own apart from the quantum dot. This desired manipulation has been achieved by quantum dots by themselves through a number of techniques including four-wave mixing and differential reflectivity, however no techniques had shown it to occur in cavities until 2007. Resonance fluorescence has been seen in a single self-assembled quantum dot as presented by Muller among others in 2007. In the experiment they used quantum dots that were grown between two mirrors in the cavity. Thus the quantum dot was not placed in the cavity, but instead created in it. They then coupled a strong in-plane polarized tunable continuous-wave laser to the quantum dot and were able to observe resonance fluorescence from the quantum dot. In addition to the excitation of the quantum dot that was achieved, they were also able to collect the photon that was emitted with a micro-PL setup. This allows for resonant coherent control of the ground state of the quantum dot while also collecting the photons emitted from the fluorescence. Coupling photons to a molecule
In 2007, G. Wrigge, I. Gerhardt, J. Hwang, G. Zumofen, and V. Sandoghdar developed an efficient method to observe resonance fluorescence for an entire molecule as opposed to its typical observation in a single atom. Instead of coupling the electric field to a single atom, they were able to replicate two-level systems in dye molecules embedded in solids. They used a tunable dye laser to excite the dye molecules in their sample. Due to the fact that they could only have one source at a time, the proportion of shot noise to actual data was much higher than normal. The sample which they excited was a Shpol'skii matrix which they had doped with the dyes they wished to use, dibenzanthanthrene. To improve the accuracy of the results, single-molecule fluorescence-excitation spectroscopy was used. The actual process for measuring the resonance was measuring the interference between the laser beam and the photons that were scattered from the molecule. Thus the laser was passed over the sample, resulting in several photons were scattered back, allowing for the measurement of the interference in the electromagnetic field that resulted. The improvement to this technique was they used solid-immersion lens technology. This is a lens that has a much higher numerical aperture than normal lenses as it is filled with a material that has a large refractive index. The technique used to measure the resonance fluorescence in this system was originally designed to locate individual molecules within substances. Implications of Resonance fluorescence
The largest implication that arises from resonance fluorescence is that for future technologies.