[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: phytotherapy systematic review clinical evidence | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: phytotherapy systematic review clinical evidence]

99. Forsch Komplementarmed Klass Naturheilkd. 2002 Dec;9 Suppl 1:1-20. doi: 
10.1159/000068645.

[Iberogast: a modern phytotherapeutic combined herbal drug for the treatment of 
functional disorders of the gastrointestinal tract (dyspepsia, irritable bowel 
syndrome)--from phytomedicine to "evidence based phytotherapy." A systematic 
review].

[Article in German]

Saller R(1), Pfister-Hotz G, Iten F, Melzer J, Reichling J.

Author information:
(1)Abteilung Naturheilkunde, Departement Innere Medizin, Universitätsspital 
Zürich, Switzerland. reinhard.saller@dim.usz.ch

Iberogast is a complex herbal preparation. As a fixed drug combination (9 
constituents) it is composed of a fresh plant extract of Iberis amara and of 
extracts of 8 other dried herbal drugs ( Chelidonii herba, Cardui mariae 
fructus, Melissae folium, Carvi fructus, Liquiritiae radix, Angelicae radix, 
Matricariae flos, Menthae piperitae folium). The pharmacological effects as well 
as the therapeutic effectiveness, tolerability, and toxicity of Iberogast were 
experimentally and clinically recorded and documented using modern investigation 
tools. Both the experimental as well as the clinical studies indicated a 
regulatory influence of Iberogast on the whole gastrointestinal tract by a 
special dual action. While the included extracts of the dried herbal drugs have 
mainly spasmolytic properties, the fresh plant extract of Iberis amara has a 
tonic effect on the gastrointestinal tract. Depending on the predistension of 
the gastric or intestinal wall, the tonic or the spasmolytic effects of 
Iberogast prevail. Both the fresh plant extract of Iberis amara and the combined 
preparation of Iberogast were found to be toxicologically safe in 
therapeutically effective doses. For the estimation of the clinical 
effectiveness a systematic review was performed (data research: January 1970 to 
September 2002). As shown in controlled (according GCP standard) as well as 
supportive and uncontrolled clinical studies, the symptoms of functional 
dyspepsia and of irritable bowel syndrome (one controlled study and one 
observational study) could be significantly reduced by these herbal preparation 
in comparison to placebo. Two trials comparing Iberogast with the prokinetics 
metoclopramide and cisapride demonstrated a comparable therapeutic effectiveness 
of the herbal preparation and the prokinetics in the treatment of dyspepsia. 
Adverse events were rare and, with respect to frequency and spectrum, partly the 
same as found with placebo. Another advantage of Iberogast is that it targets 
only the gastrointestinal tract and the enteral nervous system, but not the 
central nervous system. Because of its special dual action, its clinically 
proven effectiveness, and its good tolerability, Iberogast may be a drug of 
first choice in the treatment of functional gastrointestinal diseases and their 
corresponding symptoms.

DOI: 10.1159/000068645
PMID: 12618546 [Indexed for MEDLINE]