[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: low-level laser therapy wound healing pain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: low-level laser therapy wound healing pain]

87. J Photochem Photobiol B. 2017 Jul;172:109-114. doi: 
10.1016/j.jphotobiol.2017.05.022. Epub 2017 May 18.

Effect of laser photobiomodulation on wound healing and postoperative pain 
following free gingival graft: A split-mouth triple-blind randomized controlled 
clinical trial.

Heidari M(1), Paknejad M(2), Jamali R(3), Nokhbatolfoghahaei H(4), Fekrazad 
R(5), Moslemi N(6).

Author information:
(1)Dental Implant Research Center, Dental Research Institute, Tehran University 
of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(2)Department of Periodontics, School of Dentistry, Tehran University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(3)Research Development Center of Sina Hospital, Students Scientific Research 
Center, Digestive Research Institute, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, 
Tehran, Iran.
(4)Dental Research Center, School of Dentistry, Shahid Beheshti University of 
Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(5)Department of Periodontics, Faculty of Dentistry, Laser Research Center in 
Medical Sciences (LRCMS), AJA University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran; 
International Network for Photo Medicine and Photo Dynamic Therapy (INPMPDT), 
Universal Scientific Education and Research Network (USERN), Tehran, Iran.
(6)Laser Research Center of Dentistry, Dental Research Institute, Tehran 
University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran; Department of Periodontics, School 
of Dentistry, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran. Electronic 
address: nmoslemi@razi.tums.ac.ir.

BACKGROUND AND AIM: Free gingival graft (FGG) is one of the most predictable 
techniques for gingival augmentation. However, patient's discomfort and pain 
during healing period are significant concerns. The aim of this study was to 
assess if laser photobiomodulation (PBM) was effective in terms of enhancing 
wound healing and reducing postoperative pain.
METHODS AND MATERIALS: Twelve patients participated in this split-mouth 
randomized controlled clinical trial. Each patient had a 30-day interval between 
the two procedures. In the test group, donor and recipient sites received diode 
laser (660nm, 200mW, continuous mode, time of irradiation:32s, energy density: 
4J/cm2, spot size:0.5cm) immediately after FGG surgery, and 1,2,4 and 7days 
later. The control side received the same sequence of irradiation with the 
laser-off. Complete wound epithelialization of donor site and clinical wound 
healing and visual analogue scale (VAS) pain score of donor and recipient sites 
were evaluated after surgery.
RESULTS: At 14 and 21days after surgery, the number of donor sites with complete 
epithelialization was greater in laser group compared to the placebo. After 
21days, all donor sites in the test group were epithelialized completely, while 
at the same time, only eight donor sites in the control group showed complete 
epithelialization (P value=0.05). In terms of clinical healing of the recipient 
and donor sites, the test and control groups did not show any significant 
difference during the 45-day period, except at days 1 (for recipient site) and 
14 (for donor site), when the test group showed better results (P values: 0.01 
and 0.03, respectively). The VAS pain score did not show statistically 
significant difference between two groups during the study period, except for 
the first 3h after procedure when laser group showed greater VAS pain score (P 
values<0.05).
CONCLUSION: PBM following FGG procedure with the parameters used in this study 
could accelerate the rate of epithelialization at the donor site. However, it 
did not reduce postoperative pain.

Copyright © 2017. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jphotobiol.2017.05.022
PMID: 28549319 [Indexed for MEDLINE]