[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: nanoparticle drug delivery tumor targeting cancer | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: nanoparticle drug delivery tumor targeting cancer]

15. Int J Biol Macromol. 2025 Jul;318(Pt 4):145145. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2025.145145. Epub 2025 Jun 20.

Natural macromolecules polysaccharide-based drug delivery systems targeting 
tumor necrosis factor alpha receptor for the treatment of cancer: A review.

Raza MA(1), Khatoon N(1), Parveen R(1), Nirisha V(1), Thakur Y(1), Thakur Y(1), 
Lata K(1), Shifana AS(1), Disouza J(2), Saoji SD(3), Ajazuddin(4).

Author information:
(1)Rungta College of Pharmaceutical Sciences and Research, Bhilai, C.G., India.
(2)Bombay Institute of Pharmacy & Research, Dombivli East, Taluka: Kalyan 
421204, Maharashtra, India.
(3)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Rashtrasant Tukadoji Maharaj Nagpur 
University, Nagpur 440033, Maharashtra, India.
(4)Rungta College of Pharmaceutical Sciences and Research, Bhilai, C.G., India; 
Rungta College of Engineering & Technology, Bhilai,C.G., India. Electronic 
address: write2ajaz@gmail.com.

Cancer is one of the most significant abnormalities in medical sciences for 
which a new and efficient therapeutic intervention is desired. Targeting the 
tumor necrosis factor-alpha receptor appears to have a critical role in both 
cancer development and immune modality. In this review, an attempt is made to 
review the potential and avenues of natural macromolecules that have augmented 
drug delivery systems for specific targeting of the tumor necrosis factor-alpha 
receptor in cancer therapy. Biological macromolecules, derived from 
biocompatible and biodegradable sources such as lipids, polysaccharides of 
natural origin, such as chitosan, hyaluronic acid, alginate, pectin, dextran, 
starch, cellulose, agar, carrageenan, guar gum, chondroitin sulfate, pullulan, 
and konjac glucomannan, have been immensely utilized in drug delivery systems 
for its negligible toxicity mucoadhesive properties, ability to enhance drug 
stability, and controlled release capabilities. Various novel drug delivery 
approaches are discussed in detail, including those using polysaccharides, 
lipids, chitosan, proteins, polymers, dendrimers, exosomes, hydrogels, albumin 
nanoparticles, silk nanoparticles, and cyclodextrin nanoparticles, incorporating 
cutting-edge engineering techniques for encapsulation of chemotherapeutic, 
immunomodulatory, and gene-silencing drugs for site-specific delivery at a site 
of a tumor. Such macromolecules can mitigate toxicity and even bypass multidrug 
resistance through their intrinsic property, ligand functionalization for 
targetability towards receptors. In the present review, an attempt is made to 
present an outlook for the role of natural macromolecules is being a 
breakthrough intervention in interfering with tumor necrosis factor-alpha 
receptor-dependent processes in cancer and a new direction in developing 
efficient, non-toxic, and personalized therapies for anti-cancer activities.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2025.145145
PMID: 40516724 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.