[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: Maxwell's equations in curved spacetime | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Maxwell's equations in curved spacetime — Overview

have The transformation law for electromagnetic displacement is where the Jacobian determinant is used. If the magnetization-polarization tensor is used, it has the same transformation law as the electromagnetic displacement. Electric current The electric current is the divergence of the electromagnetic displacement. In a vacuum, If magnetization–polarization is used, then this just gives the free portion of the current This incorporates Ampere's law and Gauss's law. In either case, the fact that the electromagnetic displacement is antisymmetric implies that the electric current is automatically conserved:

 

because the partial derivatives commute. The Ampere–Gauss definition of the electric current is not sufficient to determine its value because the electromagnetic potential (from which it was ultimately derived) has not been given a value. Instead, the usual procedure is to equate the electric current to some expression in terms of other fields, mainly the electron and proton, and then solve for the electromagnetic displacement, electromagnetic field, and electromagnetic potential. The electric current is a contravariant vector density, and as such it transforms as follows:

 

Verification of this transformation law:

So all that remains is to show that

 

which is a version of a known theorem (see ). Lorentz force density
The density of the Lorentz force is a covariant vector density given by 

The force on a test particle subject only to gravity and electromagnetism is

where pα is the linear 4-momentum of the particle, t is any time coordinate parameterizing the world line of the particle, Γβαγ is the Christoffel symbol (gravitational force field), and q is the electric charge of the particle. This equation is invariant under a change in the time coordinate; just multiply by  and use the chain rule. It is also invariant under a change in the x coordinate system. Using the transformation law for the Christoffel symbol,

we get

Lagrangian
In a vacuum, the Lagrangian density for classical electrodynamics (in joules per cubic meter) is a scalar density

where

The 4-current should be understood as an abbreviation of many terms expressing the electric currents of other charged fields in terms of their variables. If we separate free currents from bound currents, the Lagrangian becomes

Electromagnetic stress–energy tensor

As part of the source term in the Einstein field equations, the electromagnetic stress–energy tensor is a covariant symmetric tensor

using a metric of signature (−, +, +, +). If using the metric with signature (+, −, −, −), the expression for  will have opposite sign. The stress–energy tensor is trace-free:

because electromagnetism propagates at the local invariant speed, and is conformal-invariant. In the expression for the conservation of energy and linear momentum, the electromagnetic stress–energy tensor is best represented as a mixed tensor density

From the equations above, one can show that

where the semicolon indicates a covariant derivative. This can be rewritten as

which says that the decrease in the electromagnetic energy is the same as the work done by the electromagnetic field on the gravitational field plus the work done on matter (via the Lorentz force), and similarly the rate of decrease in the electromagnetic linear momentum is the electromagnetic force exerted on the gravitational field plus the Lorentz force exerted on matter. Derivation of conservation law:

which is zero because it is the negative of itself (see four lines above). Electromagnetic wave equation
The nonhomogeneous electromagnetic wave equation in terms of the field tensor is modified from the special-relativity form to 

 

where Racbd is the covariant form of the Riemann tensor, and  is a generalization of the d'Alembertian operator for covariant derivatives. Using

 

Maxwell's source equations can be written in terms of the 4-potential [ref. 2, p. 569] as

 

or, assuming the generalization of the Lorenz gauge in curved spacetime,

 

where  is the Ricci curvature tensor. This is the same form of the wave equation as in flat spacetime, except that the derivatives are replaced by covariant derivatives and there is an additional term proportional to the curvature. The wave equation in this form also bears some resemblance to the Lorentz force in curved spacetime, where Aa plays the role of the 4-position. For the case of a metric signature in the form (+, −, −, −), the derivation of the wave equation in curved spacetime is carried out in the article. Nonlinearity of Maxwell's equations in a dynamic spacetime 

When Maxwell's equations are treated in a background-independent manner, that is, when the spacetime metric is taken to be a dynamical variable dependent on the electromagnetic field, then the electromagnetic wave equation and Maxwell's equations are nonlinear. This can be seen by noting that the curvature tensor depends on the stress–energy tensor through the Einstein field equation

 

where

 

is the Einstein tensor, G is the gravitational constant, gab is the metric tensor, and R (scalar curvature) is the trace of the Ricci curvature tensor.