[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: laser tissue interaction ablation photothermal | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: laser tissue interaction ablation photothermal]

33. Refuat Hapeh Vehashinayim (1993). 2001 Oct;18(3-4):21-8, 107-8.

[Lasers in dentistry. Part B--Interaction with biological tissues and the effect 
on the soft tissues of the oral cavity, the hard tissues of the tooth and the 
dental pulp].

[Article in Hebrew]

Moshonov J(1), Stabholz A, Leopold Y, Rosenberg I, Stabholz A.

Author information:
(1)Dept of Endodontics, Hebrew University, Hadassah School of Dental Medicine.

The interaction of laser energy with target tissue is mainly determined by two 
non operator-dependent factors: the specific wavelength of the laser and the 
optical properties of the target tissues. Power density, energy density, pulse 
repetition rate, pulse duration and the mode of energy transferring to the 
tissue are dictated by the clinician. Combination of these factors enables to 
control optimal response for the clinical application. Four responses are 
described when the laser beam hits the target tissue: reflection, absorption, 
transmission and scattering. Three main mechanisms of interaction between the 
laser and the biological tissues exist: photothermic, photoacoustic and 
photochemical. The effect of lasers on the soft tissues of the oral cavity is 
based on transformation of light energy into thermal energy which, in turn heats 
the target tissue to produce the desirable effect. In comparison to the scalpel 
used in surgical procedures, the laser beam is characterized by tissue natural 
sterility and by minimum bleeding during the surgical procedures due to blood 
vessels welding. The various effects achieved by the temperature elevation 
during the laser application on the soft tissue are: I. coagulation and 
hemostasis II. tissue sterilization III. tissue welding IV. incision and 
excision V. ablation and vaporization Ablation and melting are the two basic 
modalities by which the effect of lasers on the hard tissues of the tooth is 
produced. When discussing the effect of laser on dental hard tissues, the energy 
absorption in the hydroxyapatite plays a major role in addition to its 
absorption in water. When laser energy is absorbed in the water of the hard 
tissues, a rapid volume expansion of the evaporating water occurs as a result of 
a substantial temperature elevation in the interaction site. Microexplosions are 
produced causing hard tissue disintegration. If pulp temperatures are raised 
beyond 5 degrees C level, damage to the dental pulp is irreversible. 
Histologically, after laser ablation, presence of odontoblastic nuclei is 
important. Consistency and composition of the intracellular tissue is another 
factor influencing cell viability. If heat is intensive and exists for an 
extended time, the consistency of the intracellular ground substance may not be 
preserved. Accordingly, the application of excessive energy densities has been 
shown to result in significant damage to pulp tissue and in particular to 
odontoblasts. Studies showed that the use of Er:YAG laser to treat dental hard 
tissues is both safe and effective for caries removal, cavity preparation and 
enamel etching.

PMID: 11806042 [Indexed for MEDLINE]