[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: Beta-alumina solid electrolyte | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Beta-alumina solid electrolyte — Overview

but low electronic transference number and chemical passivity. It is also able to be formed into useful shapes. Sodium–sulfur battery Research and development on the sodium–sulphur cell has reached a point where this technology is now commercialised. Average units have power output in the range from 50 -400 kWh. Its lifetime is estimated to be around 15 years, around 4500 cycles at an efficiency of 85%. The quick response times, claimed speeds in the order of 1 ms, add to the overall utility of the battery. A high temperature of 300-400 degrees Celsius is needed during operation

Sodium–sulphur batteries have a basis of molten salt technology where molten sodium and sulphur are used as the electrodes of the battery. A high temperature of 300-400 degrees Celsius is needed during operation for the components to remain molten. The electricity is generated in such a way that , during discharge, metal atoms are released form the sodium moving to the positive electrode through the electrolyte. The electrolyte consists of a beta-alumina tube. Due to the fast and efficient ion transportation, β-alumina allows the battery to function at these high speeds and efficiency. The application of these batteries are commonly in the field of renewable energy, the main function being peak shaving and energy stabilization. For this purpose the high ion transport beta-alumina provides is crucial. Sodium amalgam-halogen cell 
The development of a new high energy density class of primary cells using β-alumina membranes has been an advancing process. These cells intended to function at room temperature and exhibit long shelf and operating lifetime. Intended applications are for example pacemakers and electronic watches. Sodium Heat engine 
In the heart of a sodium heat engine, a beta alumina ceramic tubular membrane is placed at the centre. The system can be viewed as a sodium vapor cell where a differential in pressure is controlled by two heat reservoirs. The temperature difference between the two regions gives rise to a certain sodium activity differential, the sodium expands almost isothermally. Since the beta alumina electrolyte does not conduct electrons favourably the expansion causes sodium ions across the membrane and the electrons through an external circuit. At a porous electrode the ions are neutralized on the low pressure side, the neutral atoms evaporate through a vapor chamber ending up in a condenser. The cooled liquid sodium is then pumped back to  the high temperature region. For this application beta alumina is especially applicable, since the most efficient features of the heat engine are a result form the properties of the work fluid. The heat engine application calls for an electrolyte with long-term durability. This is one of the features that hot sodium gives, electrolyte resistivity is particularly low at high operating temperature. Since the conversion efficiency is almost independent of size, this heat engine has a modular form and could form a candidate for local generation of power in energy systems. To date it has seen most application in combination with solar-thermal-electric systems. Current research

ZEBRA 
The ZEBRA battery (zero emission batteries research activity) is a sodium nickel chloride battery was considered in the past for both stationary energy storage and electric vehicle applications. The main drawback of these batteries is that they operate at 300 degrees Celsius, when the vehicle is not in use it needs an external heat source to keep the battery operational. It has been researched if this external heating will use more energy than ambient temperature batteries. The conclusion was that the ZEBRA battery does not use more electricity than a traditional battery due to the variation in daily driving habits. The most efficient use case for this battery would therefore be in fields where the battery sees the most usage, such as public transport. General Electric attempted to commercialized ZEBRA batteries for stationary enery storage in 2011-2015, but failed to do so

Doping 
Currently the research on the topic of doping the crystal structure of the solid electrolyte could lead to more favourable characteristics of the material. When adding iron over the composition range, it could reach higher ionic conductivity with respect to the undoped version. The concentration and type of dopant are the variables that can change the properties of the material. Using high amounts of doping has as counterproductive negative effect that the electrical conductivity of the electrolyte rises. Research is focussed on finding the trade-off between ionic and electrical conductivity. References

“Wetting” a battery’s appetite for renewable energy storage
Hybridization and Cogeneration with Concentrated Solar Radiation (CSR) Technology
The alkali problem in the crystal structure of beta alumina
BETA ALUMINA - PRELUDE TO A REVOLUTION IN SOLID STATE ELECTROCHEMISTRY 
Trajectory of beta-alumina

Battery (electricity)
Rechargeable batteries
Aluminates