[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: curcumin anti-inflammatory clinical trial randomiz | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: curcumin anti-inflammatory clinical trial randomized]

73. Phytother Res. 2023 Aug;37(8):3631-3644. doi: 10.1002/ptr.7844. Epub 2023 Apr
 29.

Promising clinical outcomes of nano-curcumin treatment as an adjunct therapy in 
hospitalized COVID-19 patients: A randomized, double-blinded, placebo-controlled 
trial.

Sadeghizadeh M(1), Asadollahi E(1), Jahangiri B(1)(2), Yadollahzadeh M(3), 
Mohajeri M(4), Afsharpad M(5), Najafi F(6), Rezaie N(7), Eskandari M(3), 
Tavakoli-Ardakani M(8), Feizabadi F(8), Masjedi MR(5)(9)(10).

Author information:
(1)Department of Genetics, Faculty of Biological Sciences, Tarbiat Modares 
University, Tehran, Iran.
(2)Department of Molecular Medicine, Institute of Medical Biotechnology, 
National Institute of Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology (NIGEB), Tehran, 
Iran.
(3)Firoozgar Medical & Educational Hospital Department of Internal Medicine 
School of Medicine, Iran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(4)Alborz Nanomed Tech Company, Tehran, Iran.
(5)Cancer Control Research Center, Cancer Control Foundation, Iran University of 
Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(6)Department of Resin and Additives, Institute for Color Science and 
Technology, Tehran, Iran.
(7)Department of Pulmonology, Firouzgar Hospital, Iran University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(8)Department of Clinical Pharmacy, School of Pharmacy, Shahid Beheshti 
University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(9)Department of Pulmonary Medicine, Shahid Beheshti University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(10)Tobacco Control Research Center (TCRC), Iranian Anti-tobacco Association, 
Iran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.

Different immunomodulation strategies have been used to manage COVID-19 due to 
the complex immune-inflammatory processes involved in the pathogenesis of this 
infection. Curcumin with its powerful anti-inflammatory and antiviral properties 
could serve as a possible COVID-19 therapy. In this study, a randomized, 
double-blinded, placebo-controlled trial was performed to investigate the 
effectiveness and safety of nano-curcumin oral soft gels as a complementary 
therapy in moderate-severe COVID-19 patients. Hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) plus 
sofosbuvir was routinely administered to all 42 COVID-19 patients, who were 
randomly assigned to receive 140 mg of nano-curcumin or placebo for 14 days. CT 
scans of the chest were taken, and blood tests were run for all patients at time 
points of 0, 7, and 14 days. Our results indicated that C-reactive protein (CRP) 
and erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) levels significantly decreased from 
baseline in the nano-curcumin-treated group on day 7. Furthermore, blood levels 
of D-dimer, CRP, serum ferritin, ESR, and inflammatory cytokines including IL-6, 
IL-8, and IL-10 decreased more significantly in the nano-curcumin-treated group 
after 14 days. Additionally, the nano-curcumin group showed significant 
improvements in chest CT scores, oxygen saturation levels, and hospitalization 
duration. Based on our data, oral administration of nano-curcumin may be 
regarded as a promising adjunct treatment for COVID-19 patients due to its 
ability to speed up chest clearance and recovery.

© 2023 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/ptr.7844
PMID: 37118944 [Indexed for MEDLINE]