[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: pharmacognosy medicinal plant active compound isol | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: pharmacognosy medicinal plant active compound isolation]

21. J Ethnopharmacol. 2015 Nov 4;174:607-17. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2015.06.004. Epub
 2015 Jun 14.

The value of central-African traditional medicine for lead finding: Some case 
studies.

Vlietinck AJ(1), Pieters L(2), Apers S(1), Cimanga K(3), Mesia K(4), Tona L(4).

Author information:
(1)Natural Products & Food Research and Analysis (NatuRA), Department of 
Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of Antwerp, Universiteitsplein 1, B-2610 
Antwerp, Belgium.
(2)Natural Products & Food Research and Analysis (NatuRA), Department of 
Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of Antwerp, Universiteitsplein 1, B-2610 
Antwerp, Belgium. Electronic address: luc.pieters@uantwerpen.be.
(3)Natural Products & Food Research and Analysis (NatuRA), Department of 
Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of Antwerp, Universiteitsplein 1, B-2610 
Antwerp, Belgium; Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of Kinshasa, 
Congo.
(4)Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of Kinshasa, Congo.

Ethnoparmaological relevance: One of the possible methodologies for the 
discovery of novel drugs is the screening of selected plant extracts for a broad 
array of pharmacological activities.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The selection based on enthnomedicinal uses, combined 
with a follow-up of existing literature on the plants' chemotaxonomic 
properties, would seem to be the most cost-effective strategy for finding active 
plant extracts. A bioassay-guided fractionation of the active extracts should 
subsequently lead to the isolation and identification of the active lead 
constituent(s).
RESULTS AND DISCUSSION: Taking into account the enormous number and the amazing 
structural diversity of the currently known plant constituents, one might hope 
that promising model compounds with new structures and/or novel mechanisms of 
action might be found. In order, however, to optimize such a natural product 
drug discovery methodology, dereplication and selectivity of activity should be 
included in the screening system. Dereplication by which known compounds can 
rapidly be identified from a partially purified mixture prevents a research 
group from wasting resources by rediscovering known compounds. The use of 
single-target specific bioassays such as tests on isolated enzymes or on 
receptor-binding, or multiple target functional bioassays on isolated organs or 
intact cells must allow at an early stage to isolate compounds with specific 
pharmacological properties.
CONCLUSIONS: In this publication, several examples of bioassay-guided isolation 
and identification of pharmacologically active lead compounds from plants used 
in Central-African traditional medicine by our research group will be presented 
and discussed.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2015.06.004
PMID: 26079563 [Indexed for MEDLINE]