[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: National Solidarity (Peru) | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# National Solidarity (Peru) — Overview

lower than 1% throughout the entire campaign. Amid the investigations regarding the Odebrecht case in Peru, Castañeda and National Solidarity were put under scrutiny as the Public Ministry, as the former mayor was banned from leaving the country for the next eight months starting June 2019. Martin Bustamante, a former municipal operator, confessed that Castañeda received over 220,000 dollars from Odebrecht for his 2014 mayoral campaign. Upon the revelations, Castañeda publicly retired temporarily from the Presidency of National Solidarity. In this scenario, former Lima city councilman and long time member of the party, Rafael López Aliaga, was selected as party Secretary-General. Under his leadership, National Solidarity shifted to far right politics, as it publicly embraced extreme social conservatism and ultranationalism. Under a new political platform, National Solidarity received widespread criticism for its extreme ideological shift to the far right. Participating at the 2020 snap parliamentary election following the dissolution of Congress, López Aliaga announced early in the campaign the inclusion of Rosa Bartra, Yeni Vilcatoma and Nelly Cuadros, three former Fujimorista congresswomen in the party's congressional list for the Lima constituency, in an attempt to attract support from extreme conservative circles against abortion and LGBT rights. At the election, National Solidarity received 1.5% of the popular vote, placing nineteenth out of twenty-one participating lists, thus failing to attain representation. Dissolution 
Following its poor results in the snap-election, the party underwent a formal reconstruction. During this period, Rafael López Aliaga formally announced his candidacy for the presidency in the 2021 general election, stating that he intends to gather all possible support from the country's conservative circles. Under this new platform, López Aliaga announced the dissolution of National Solidarity, re-founding the party under the name Popular Renewal, in October 2020. Election results

Presidential election

Elections to the Congress of the Republic

Regional and municipal elections

References

Conservative parties in Peru
Defunct political parties in Peru
Political parties established in 1998
Political parties disestablished in 2020
Right-wing parties in South America
Right-wing populist parties
Defunct conservative parties
1998 establishments in Peru