[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: traditional Chinese medicine herbs mechanism actio | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: traditional Chinese medicine herbs mechanism action]

30. Front Pharmacol. 2024 May 9;15:1377592. doi: 10.3389/fphar.2024.1377592. 
eCollection 2024.

Treatment of colorectal cancer by traditional Chinese medicine: prevention and 
treatment mechanisms.

Sun J(1), Wei Y(1), Wang J(2), Hou M(3), Su L(1).

Author information:
(1)Affiliated Hospital of Inner Mongolia Medical University, Inner Mongolia Key 
Laboratory of Medical Cell Biology, Hohhot, Inner Mongolia, China.
(2)Department of Gynaecology, Inner Mongolia People's Hospital, Hohhot, Inner 
Mongolia, China.
(3)Department of Gastrointestinal Surgery, Affiliated Hospital of Inner Mongolia 
Medical University, Hohhot, Inner Mongolia, China.

Colorectal cancer (CRC) is a significant global health burden, with high 
morbidity and mortality rates. It is often diagnosed at middle to advanced 
stage, affecting approximately 35% of patients at the time of diagnosis. 
Currently, chemotherapy has been used to improve patient prognosis and increase 
overall survival. However, chemotherapy can also have cytotoxic effects and lead 
to adverse reactions, such as inhibiting bone marrow hematopoiesis, causing 
digestive dysfunction, hand-foot syndrome, and even life-threatening conditions. 
In response to these adverse effects, researchers have proposed using 
Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM) as an option to treat cancer. TCM research 
focuses on prescriptions, herbs, and components, which form essential components 
of the current research in Chinese medicine. The study and implementation of TCM 
prescriptions and herbs demonstrate its distinctive holistic approach to 
therapy, characterized by applying multi-component and multi-target treatment. 
TMC components have advantages in developing new drugs as they consist of single 
ingredients, require smaller medication dosages, have a precise measure of 
pharmacodynamic effects, and have a clear mechanism of action compared to TCM 
prescriptions and herbs. However, further research is still needed to determine 
whether TMC components can fully substitute the therapeutic efficacy of TCM 
prescriptions. This paper presents a comprehensive analysis of the research 
advancements made in TCM prescriptions, herbs, and components. The findings of 
this study can serve as a theoretical basis for researchers who are interested 
in exploring the potential of TCM for the treatment of colorectal cancer.

Copyright © 2024 Sun, Wei, Wang, Hou and Su.

DOI: 10.3389/fphar.2024.1377592
PMCID: PMC11112518
PMID: 38783955

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.