[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: MRI physics image quality artifact reduction | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: MRI physics image quality artifact reduction]

50. J Nucl Med. 2015 Jun;56(6):890-6. doi: 10.2967/jnumed.114.151779. Epub 2015
May  7.

Practical PET Respiratory Motion Correction in Clinical PET/MR.

Manber R(1), Thielemans K(2), Hutton BF(3), Barnes A(2), Ourselin S(4), Arridge 
S(4), O'Meara C(5), Wan S(2), Atkinson D(6).

Author information:
(1)Division of Medicine, Centre for Medical Imaging, University College London, 
London, United Kingdom r.manber@ucl.ac.uk.
(2)Institute of Nuclear Medicine, UCL and UCL Hospitals, London, United Kingdom.
(3)Institute of Nuclear Medicine, UCL and UCL Hospitals, London, United Kingdom 
Centre for Medical Radiation Physics, University of Wollongong, New South Wales, 
Australia.
(4)Centre for Medical Imaging Computing, Faculty of Engineering, University 
College London, London, United Kingdom; and.
(5)Sidra Medical and Research Center, Doha, Qatar.
(6)Division of Medicine, Centre for Medical Imaging, University College London, 
London, United Kingdom.

Respiratory motion during PET acquisition may lead to blurring in resulting 
images and underestimation of uptake parameters. The advent of integrated PET/MR 
scanners allows us to exploit the integration of modalities, using high spatial 
resolution and high-contrast MR images to monitor and correct PET images 
degraded by motion. We proposed a practical, anatomy-independent MR-based 
correction strategy for PET data affected by respiratory motion and showed that 
it can improve image quality both for PET acquired simultaneously to the 
motion-capturing MR and for PET acquired up to 1 h earlier during a clinical 
scan.
METHODS: To estimate the respiratory motion, our method needs only an extra 
1-min dynamic MR scan, acquired at the end of the clinical PET/MR protocol. A 
respiratory signal was extracted directly from the PET list-mode data. This 
signal was used to gate the PET data and to construct a motion model built from 
the dynamic MR data. The estimated motion was then incorporated into the PET 
image reconstruction to obtain a single motion-corrected PET image. We evaluated 
our method in 2 steps. The PET-derived respiratory signal was compared with an 
MR measure of diaphragmatic displacement via a pencil-beam navigator. The 
motion-corrected images were compared with uncorrected images with visual 
inspection, line profiles, and standardized uptake value (SUV) in focally avid 
lesions.
RESULTS: We showed a strong correlation between the PET-derived and MR-derived 
respiratory signals for 9 patients, with a mean correlation of 0.89. We then 
showed 4 clinical case study examples ((18)F-FDG and (68)Ga-DOTATATE) using the 
motion-correction technique, demonstrating improvements in image sharpness and 
reduction of respiratory artifacts in scans containing pancreatic, liver, and 
lung lesions as well as cardiac scans. The mean increase in peak SUV (SUV(peak)) 
and maximum SUV (SUV(max)) in a patient with 4 pancreatic lesions was 23.1% and 
34.5% in PET acquired simultaneously with motion-capturing MR, and 17.6% and 
24.7% in PET acquired 50 min before as part of the clinical scan.
CONCLUSION: We showed that a respiratory signal can be obtained from raw PET 
data and that the clinical PET image quality can be improved using only a short 
additional PET/MR acquisition. Our method does not need external respiratory 
hardware or modification of the normal clinical MR sequences.

© 2015 by the Society of Nuclear Medicine and Molecular Imaging, Inc.

DOI: 10.2967/jnumed.114.151779
PMID: 25952740 [Indexed for MEDLINE]