[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: pharmacognosy medicinal plant active compound isol | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: pharmacognosy medicinal plant active compound isolation]

68. Molecules. 2024 Oct 9;29(19):4767. doi: 10.3390/molecules29194767.

A Comprehensive Review on Deep Eutectic Solvents: Their Current Status and 
Potential for Extracting Active Compounds from Adaptogenic Plants.

Stanisz M(1), Stanisz BJ(2), Cielecka-Piontek J(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Phytochemistry, Institute of Natural Fibres 
and Medicinal Plants, Kolejowa 2, PL, 62-064 Poznan, Poland.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, Poznan University of Medical 
Sciences, Rokietnicka 3, PL, 60-806 Poznan, Poland.
(3)Department of Pharmacognosy and Biomaterials, Poznan University of Medical 
Sciences, Rokietnicka 3, PL, 60-806 Poznan, Poland.

Deep eutectic solvents (DESs) have attracted attention from researchers as novel 
compounds for extracting active substances because of their negligible toxicity, 
polarity, and ability to be tailored depending on the experiment. In this 
review, we discuss deep eutectic solvents as a promising medium for the 
extraction of adaptogenic compounds. In comparison to traditional methods, 
extraction with the use of DESs is a great alternative to the excessive usage of 
harmful organic solvents. It can be conducted in mild conditions, and DESs can 
be designed with different precursors, enhancing their versatility. Adaptogenic 
herbs have a long medicinal history, especially in Eastern Asia. They exhibit 
unique properties through the active compounds in their structures, including 
saponins, flavonoids, polysaccharides, and alkaloids. Therefore, they 
demonstrate a wide range of pharmaceutical effects, such as anti-inflammatory, 
antibacterial, and anticancer abilities. Since ancient times, many different 
adaptogenic herbs have been discovered and are well known, including Panax 
ginseng, Scutellaria baicalensis, and Schisandra chinensis. Active compounds can 
be extracted using standard methods, such as hydrolyzation, maceration, and 
conventional reflux extraction. However, due to the limitations of classical 
processing technologies, there has been a need to develop new and eco-friendly 
methods. We focus on the types of solvents, extraction efficiency, properties, 
and applications of the obtained active compounds. This review highlights the 
potential of DESs as eco-friendly alternatives for extracting bioactive 
compounds.

DOI: 10.3390/molecules29194767
PMCID: PMC11478271
PMID: 39407698 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.