[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: Chlorogenic Acid: A Systematic Review on the Biological Func | Type: OpenAlex-OA | Level: Graduate]

[OpenAlex | Herbal Medicine | Year: 2024 | Citations: 293]

Title: Chlorogenic Acid: A Systematic Review on the Biological Functions, Mechanistic Actions, and Therapeutic Potentials

Abstract:
Chlorogenic acid (CGA) is a type of polyphenol compound found in rich concentrations in many plants such as green coffee beans. As an active natural substance, CGA exerts diverse therapeutic effects in response to a variety of pathological challenges, particularly conditions associated with chronic metabolic diseases and age-related disorders. It shows multidimensional functions, including neuroprotection for neurodegenerative disorders and diabetic peripheral neuropathy, anti-inflammation, anti-oxidation, anti-pathogens, mitigation of cardiovascular disorders, skin diseases, diabetes mellitus, liver and kidney injuries, and anti-tumor activities. Mechanistically, its integrative functions act through the modulation of anti-inflammation/oxidation and metabolic homeostasis. It can thwart inflammatory constituents at multiple levels such as curtailing NF-kB pathways to neutralize primitive inflammatory factors, hindering inflammatory propagation, and alleviating inflammation-related tissue injury. It concurrently raises pivotal antioxidants by activating the Nrf2 pathway, thus scavenging excessive cellular free radicals. It elevates AMPK pathways for the maintenance and restoration of metabolic homeostasis of glucose and lipids. Additionally, CGA shows functions of neuromodulation by targeting neuroreceptors and ion channels. In this review, we systematically recapitulate CGA's pharmacological activities, medicinal properties, and mechanistic actions as a potential therapeutic agent. Further studies for defining its specific targeting molecules, improving its bioavailability, and validating its clinical efficacy are required to corroborate the therapeutic effects of CGA.