[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS neurology | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS neurology]

36. J Clin Neurophysiol. 2022 Feb 1;39(2):135-148. doi: 
10.1097/WNP.0000000000000784.

Biomarkers Obtained by Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation in Neurodevelopmental 
Disorders.

Jannati A(1)(2)(3), Ryan MA(1)(2), Kaye HL(4), Tsuboyama M(1), Rotenberg 
A(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Neuromodulation Program and Division of Epilepsy and Clinical 
Neurophysiology, Department of Neurology, Boston Children's Hospital, Harvard 
Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts, U.S.A.
(2)Berenson-Allen Center for Noninvasive Brain Stimulation and Division of 
Cognitive Neurology, Department of Neurology, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical 
Center, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts, U.S.A.
(3)F.M. Kirby Neurobiology Center, Department of Neurology, Boston Children's 
Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts, U.S.A.; and.
(4)Behavioral Neuroscience Program, Division of Medical Sciences, Boston 
University School of Medicine, Boston, U.S.A.

Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) is a method for focal brain stimulation 
that is based on the principle of electromagnetic induction where small 
intracranial electric currents are generated by a powerful fluctuating magnetic 
field. Over the past three decades, TMS has shown promise in the diagnosis, 
monitoring, and treatment of neurological and psychiatric disorders in adults. 
However, the use of TMS in children has been more limited. We provide a brief 
introduction to the TMS technique; common TMS protocols including single-pulse 
TMS, paired-pulse TMS, paired associative stimulation, and repetitive TMS; and 
relevant TMS-derived neurophysiological measurements including resting and 
active motor threshold, cortical silent period, paired-pulse TMS measures of 
intracortical inhibition and facilitation, and plasticity metrics after 
repetitive TMS. We then discuss the biomarker applications of TMS in a few 
representative neurodevelopmental disorders including autism spectrum disorder, 
fragile X syndrome, attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder, Tourette syndrome, 
and developmental stuttering.

Copyright © 2021 by the American Clinical Neurophysiology Society.

DOI: 10.1097/WNP.0000000000000784
PMCID: PMC8810902
PMID: 34366399 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: A. Rotenberg is a founder and advisor for 
Neuromotion, serves on the medical advisory board or has consulted for Cavion, 
Epihunter, Gamify, Neural Dynamics, NeuroRex, Roche, Otsuka, and is listed as 
inventor on a patent related to integration of TMS and EEG. The remaining 
authors declare that the research was conducted in the absence of any commercial 
or financial relationships that could be construed as a potential conflict of 
interest.