[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: magnetic resonance spectroscopy metabolite brain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: magnetic resonance spectroscopy metabolite brain]

35. J Neurochem. 2025 Jan;169(1):e16303. doi: 10.1111/jnc.16303.

Sub-Microliter (1)H Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy for In Vivo High-Spatial 
Resolution Metabolite Quantification in the Mouse Brain.

Abaei A(1), Deelchand DK(2), Kassubek J(3)(4), Roselli F(3)(4), Rasche V(1)(5).

Author information:
(1)Core Facility Small Animal MRI, Ulm University, Ulm, Germany.
(2)Center for Magnetic Resonance Research, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, 
Minnesota, USA.
(3)Department of Neurology, Ulm University, Ulm, Germany.
(4)German Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases (DZNE), Ulm, Germany.
(5)Department of Internal Medicine II, Ulm University Medical Center, Ulm, 
Germany.

Proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) offers a non-invasive, repeatable, 
and reproducible method for in vivo metabolite profiling of the brain and other 
tissues. However, metabolite fingerprinting by MRS requires high signal-to-noise 
ratios for accurate metabolite quantification, which has traditionally been 
limited to large volumes of interest, compromising spatial fidelity. In this 
study, we introduce a new optimized pipeline that combines LASER MRS acquisition 
at 11.7 T with a cryogenic coil and advanced offline pre- and post-processing. 
This approach achieves a signal-to-noise ratio sufficient to reliably quantify 
19 distinct metabolites in a volume as small as 0.7 μL within the mouse brain. 
The resulting high spatial resolution and spectral quality enable the 
identification of distinct metabolite fingerprints in small, specific regions, 
as demonstrated by characteristic differences in N-acetylaspartate, glutamate, 
taurine, and myo-inositol between the motor and somatosensory cortices. We 
demonstrated a decline in taurine and glutamate in the primary motor cortex 
between 5 and 11 months of age, against the stability of other metabolites. 
Further exploitation to cortical layer-specific metabolite fingerprinting of 
layer I-III to layer VI-V in the primary motor cortex, with the latter showing 
reduced taurine and phosphoethanolamine levels, demonstrates the potential of 
this pipeline for detailed in vivo metabolite fingerprinting of cortical areas 
and subareas.

© 2025 The Author(s). Journal of Neurochemistry published by John Wiley & Sons 
Ltd on behalf of International Society for Neurochemistry.

DOI: 10.1111/jnc.16303
PMCID: PMC11742661
PMID: 39825728 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.