[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Complex Circuit Systems | Topic: LSM-Based Hotspot Prediction and Hotspot-Aware Routing in No | Type: Peer-Reviewed | Level: Expert]

[Semantic Scholar | Fields: Computer Science | Year: 2024 | Citations: 6]

Title: LSM-Based Hotspot Prediction and Hotspot-Aware Routing in NoC-Based Neuromorphic Processor

Abstract:
The traffic patterns of spiking neural networks (SNNs) exhibit high variability and stochastic, leading to the emergence of elevated traffic hotspots on the network-on-chip (NoC)-based neuromorphic processors. Predicting the occurrence of hotspots remains one of the most challenging issues in NoC design. This article presents the first attempt toward traffic hotspot prediction by utilizing liquid state machine (HP-LSM). The predictor extracts essential information reflecting the current state of the NoC to predict potential routing hotspots in the subsequent time step. Furthermore, we designed the hardware architecture for HP-LSM, which incorporates leaky-integrate-and-fire (LIF) neurons with configurable biological parameters. Meanwhile, we introduce a novel hotspot-aware path-based multicast (HaPM) routing algorithm that utilizes advanced knowledge acquired from HP-LSM to guide packet routing throughout the network, aiming to improve the performance of NoC. Results indicate that the HP-LSM can forecast hotspot formation with an accuracy up to 89.36% and 90.19% for two spiking-based datasets, respectively. The hardware experiment results demonstrate a 92.03% reduction in the average execution time of zero skipping compared with nonzero skipping. Moreover, the HP-LSM exhibits a reduction of up to 79.30% in the number of neurons compared with other related SNN predictor models. The experiments reveal a reduction of 73.67% and 53.42% in the average length of the multicast path when compared with dual-path (DP) or multipath (MP) multicast routing. The HaPM demonstrates improved performance in terms of average latency and throughput compared with DP, MP, and path-based multicast (PbM) multicast routing.