[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: curcumin anti-inflammatory clinical trial randomiz | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: curcumin anti-inflammatory clinical trial randomized]

68. Prostaglandins Other Lipid Mediat. 2025 Jun;178:106994. doi: 
10.1016/j.prostaglandins.2025.106994. Epub 2025 Apr 17.

The effect of highly bioavailable forms of curcumin on lipoprotein(a) plasma 
levels: A systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized clinical studies.

Fogacci F(1), Avagimyan A(2), Cesaro A(3), Bernardi M(4), Perone F(5), 
Giovannini M(6), Cicero AFG(7).

Author information:
(1)Hypertension and Cardiovascular Risk Research Center, Medical and Surgical 
Sciences Department, Alma Mater Studiorum University of Bologna, Bologna 40130, 
Italy. Electronic address: federica.fogacci@studio.unibo.it.
(2)Department of Anatomical Pathology and Clinical Morphology, 0025, Yerevan 
State Medical University after M. Heratsi, Yerevan, Armenia.
(3)Department of Translational Medical Sciences, University of Campania 'Luigi 
Vanvitelli', Caserta, Italy; Division of Clinical Cardiology, A.O.R.N. 
'Sant'Anna e San Sebastiano', Caserta, Italy.
(4)Department of Clinical, Internal Medicine, Anesthesiology and Cardiovascular 
Sciences, Sapienza University of Rome, Rome 00185, Italy.
(5)Cardiac Rehabilitation Unit, Rehabilitation Clinic "Villa delle Magnolie", 
Castel Morrone, Caserta 81020, Italy.
(6)Hypertension and Cardiovascular Risk Research Center, Medical and Surgical 
Sciences Department, Alma Mater Studiorum University of Bologna, Bologna 40130, 
Italy.
(7)Hypertension and Cardiovascular Risk Research Center, Medical and Surgical 
Sciences Department, Alma Mater Studiorum University of Bologna, Bologna 40130, 
Italy; Cardiovascular Medicine Unit, Heart, Chest and Vascular Department, IRCCS 
Azienda Ospedaliero-Universitaria di Bologna, Bologna 40138, Italy.

Curcumin is a bioactive compound derived from the rhizome of Curcuma longa 
(turmeric) that has garnered increasing attention for its potential health 
benefits. However, its use in clinical practice is limited due to its generally 
poor bioavailability. This issue can be overcome using novel delivery systems 
that enhance curcumin's solubility, extend its residence time in plasma, improve 
its pharmacokinetic profile, and increase its cellular uptake. Novel curcumin 
formulations with improved bioavailability have been suggested to elevate plasma 
concentrations of lipoprotein(a) (Lp(a)), but there is no definitive evidence of 
a causal relationship. To address this, a systematic literature search was 
conducted in multiple electronic databases to identify relevant randomized 
placebo-controlled clinical studies published without a time limit. A 
meta-analysis of data suggested that dietary supplementation with highly 
bioavailable forms of curcumin significantly reduces Lp(a) levels [Standardized 
Mean Difference (SMD)= -0.96 (95 % Confidence Interval (CI): -1.82, -0.11)]. The 
effect size was robust in the leave-one-out sensitivity analysis and was not 
primarily driven by any single study. Of course, the clinical significance of 
this observation should be more thoroughly evaluated in longer-term trials, 
where the combined metabolic and anti-inflammatory effects of curcumin have 
vascular protective effects.

Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.prostaglandins.2025.106994
PMID: 40252824 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare no conflict of interest.