[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: cannabis cannabidiol therapeutic epilepsy pain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: cannabis cannabidiol therapeutic epilepsy pain]

53. Acta Neurol Taiwan. 2019 Jun 15;28(2):27-39.

Cannabis and Neuropsychiatric Disorders: An Updated Review.

Chayasirisobhon S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Kaiser Permanente Medical Center, Orange County, 
California, U.S.A.

Cannabis plant has the scientific name called Cannabis sativa L. Cannabis plant 
has many species, but there are three main species including Cannabis sativa, 
Cannabis indica and Cannabis ruderalis. Over 70 compounds isolated from cannabis 
species are called cannabinoids (CBN). Cannabinoids produce over 100 naturally 
occurring chemicals. The most abundant chemicals are 
delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and Cannabidiol (CBD). THC is psychotropic 
chemical that makes people feel "high" while CBD is nonpsychotropic chemical. 
However, cannabinoid chemicals are not found only in the cannabis plant, they 
are also produced by the mammalian body, called endocannabinoids and in the 
laboratory, called synthesized cannabinoids. Endocannabinoids are endogenous 
lipid-based retrograde neurotransmitters that bind to cannabinoid receptors, and 
cannabinoid receptor proteins that are expressed throughout the mammalian 
central nervous system including brain and peripheral nervous system. There are 
at least two types of endocannabinoid receptors (CB1 and CB2) which are 
G-protein coupled receptors. CB1 receptors are particularly abundant in the 
frontal cortex, hippocampus, basal ganglia, hypothalamus and cerebellum, spinal 
cord and peripheral nervous system. They are present in inhibitory GABA-ergic 
neurons and excitatory glutamatergic neurons. CB2 receptor is most abundantly 
found on cells of the immune system, hematopoietic cells and glia cells. CB2 is 
mainly expressed in the periphery under normal healthy condition, but in 
conditions of disease or injury, this upregulation occurs within the brain, and 
CB2 is therefore expressed in the brain in unhealthy states. Cannabis and 
cannabinoid are studied in different medical conditions. The therapeutic 
potentials of both cannabis and cannabinoid are related to the effects of THC, 
CBD and other cannabinoid compounds. However, the "high" effect of THC in 
cannabis and cannabinoid may limit the clinical use, particularly, the study on 
the therapeutic potential of THC alone is more limited. This review emphasizes 
the therapeutic potential of CBD and CBD with THC. CBD has shown to have benefit 
in a variety of neuropsychiatric disorders including autism spectrum disorder, 
anxiety, psychosis, neuropathic pain, cancer pain, HIV, migraine, multiple 
sclerosis, Alzheimer disease, Parkinson disease, Huntington disease, 
hypoxic-ischemic injury and epilepsy. CBD is generally well tolerated. Most 
common adverse events are diarrhea and somnolence. CBD also shows significantly 
low abuse potential.

PMID: 31867704 [Indexed for MEDLINE]