[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: Stephen Benton | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Stephen Benton — Overview

a force-feedback (or haptic) device. This device can sense, report the position, and display appropriate forces to the user. The user can feel and modify specified shapes in the workspace. The haptic workspace is linked with the free-standing, spatial image displayed by a holographic video (holovideo) system. This interactive workspace allows a user to see, feel, and interact with synthetic objects that feel like real ones. The display allows these objects to become a part of the user's workspace. Artwork 
Not only was Stephen Benton an accomplished scientist, but also an artist. Benton thought of holography as an ''intersection of art, science and technology'' One of his works, Volumetric Rendering of Magnetic Resonance Imaging--Acquired Data, Digital Hologram is currently on display at Brigham and Women's Hospital. His own works in holography have been displayed at the Museum of Holography on Mercer Street in Manhattan, where he was a curator. Currently, MIT holds the entire collection of Benton's holograms as the Museum of Holography went bankrupt in 1992. Professional societies and other honors 
1976 – 1977: President of the New England section of OSA

1980 – 1984: Chairman for the U.S. National Committee for the International Commission for Optics

1990 – 1993: Board of Directors for the International Society for Optical Engineering (SPIE)

1995: Vinci of Excellence Award at the International Science for Art competition

1999: Vice President for the Society for Imaging Science and Technology

Board of Trustees for the Museum of Holography in New York

Boards of Trustees for Rochester's Museum of Photography at Georges Eastman's House

References

External links 
 Holography pioneer Stephen Benton dies at 61, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, November 12, 2003. Video: Holography pioneer, Stephen Benton, Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Stephen A Benton's Obituary on 'Blog of Death',
 Oral History interview transcript with Stephen Benton on 11 July 2003, American Institute of Physics, Niels Bohr Library and Archives - interview conducted by Sean F. Johnston at the MIT Media Lab

1941 births
2003 deaths
American inventors
MIT School of Engineering alumni
Harvard University alumni
Holography
MIT Media Lab people