[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: ethnobotany traditional medicine biological activi | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: ethnobotany traditional medicine biological activity]

81. J Ethnopharmacol. 2024 Jan 30;319(Pt 2):117229. doi:
10.1016/j.jep.2023.117229.  Epub 2023 Oct 1.

Traditional uses, phytochemistry, pharmacology, and safety concerns of hawthorn 
(Crataegus genus): A comprehensive review.

Cui M(1), Cheng L(1), Zhou Z(2), Zhu Z(1), Liu Y(1), Li C(1), Liao B(1), Fan 
M(3), Duan B(4).

Author information:
(1)College of Pharmaceutical Science, Dali University, Dali, 671000, China.
(2)College of Pharmaceutical Science, Dali University, Dali, 671000, China; Key 
Laboratory of Natural Medicines of the Changbai Mountain, Ministry of Education, 
Yanbian University, Yanji, 133002, China.
(3)College of Pharmaceutical Science, Dali University, Dali, 671000, China. 
Electronic address: fanmin302301@163.com.
(4)College of Pharmaceutical Science, Dali University, Dali, 671000, China. 
Electronic address: bzduan@126.com.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: The genus Crataegus (hawthorn), a member of the 
Rosaceae family, encompasses several species with broad geographical 
distribution across the Northern Hemisphere, including Asia, Europe, and the 
Americas. Hawthorn is recognized as an edible medicinal plant with applications 
related to strengthening the digestive system, promoting blood circulation, and 
resolving blood stasis.
AIM OF THE REVIEW: This study critically summarized the traditional uses, 
phytochemistry, and pharmacological properties to provide a theoretical basis 
for further studies on hawthorn and its applications in medicine and food.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The available information on hawthorn was gathered from 
scientific databases (including Google Scholar, Web of Science, PubMed, 
ScienceDirect, Baidu Scholar, CNKI, online ethnobotanical databases, and 
ethnobotanical monographs, and considered data from 1952 to 2023). Information 
about traditional uses, phytochemistry, pharmacology, and safety concerns of the 
collected data is comprehensively summarized in this paper.
RESULTS: The literature review revealed that hawthorn includes more than 1000 
species primarily distributed in the northern temperate zone. Traditional uses 
of hawthorn have lasted for millennia in Asia, Europe, and the Americas. Within 
the past decade, 337 chemical compounds, including flavonoids, lignans, fatty 
acids and organic acids, monoterpenoids and sesquiterpenoids, terpenoids and 
steroids, have been identified from hawthorn. Modern pharmacological studies 
have confirmed numerous bioactivities, such as cardiovascular system influence, 
antitumor activity, hepatoprotective activity, antimicrobial properties, 
immunomodulatory functions, and anti-inflammatory activities. Additionally, 
evaluations have indicated that hawthorn lacks toxicity.
CONCLUSIONS: Based on its traditional uses, chemical composition, and 
pharmacological studies, hawthorn has significant potential as a medicinal and 
edible plant with a diverse range of pharmacological activities. Traditional 
uses of the hawthorn include the treatment of indigestion, dysmenorrhea, and 
osteoporosis. However, modern pharmacological research primarily focuses on its 
cardiovascular and cerebrovascular system effects, antitumor effects, and liver 
protection properties. Currently, there is a lack of correlative research 
involving its traditional uses and pharmacological activities. Moreover, 
phytochemical and pharmacological research has yet to focus on many types of 
hawthorn with traditional applications. Therefore, it is imperative to research 
the genus Crataegus extensively.

Copyright © 2023 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2023.117229
PMID: 37788786 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.