[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: biomaterial implant osseointegration titanium clin | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: biomaterial implant osseointegration titanium clinical]

32. Int J Oral Implantol (Berl). 2024 Sep 16;17(3):297-306.

Clinical and histological efficacy of a new implant surface in achieving early 
and stable osseointegration: An in vivo study.

Nevins M, Chen CY, Khang W, Kim DM.

An advantage of treated implant surfaces is their increased degree of 
hydrophilicity and wettability compared with untreated, machined, smooth 
surfaces that are hydrophobic. The present preclinical in vivo study aimed to 
compare the two implant surface types, namely SLActive (Straumann, Basel, 
Switzerland) and nanohydroxyapatite (Hiossen, Englewood Cliffs, NJ, USA), in 
achieving early osseointegration. The authors hypothesised that the 
nanohydroxyapatite surface is comparable to SLActive for early bone-implant 
contact. Six male mixed foxhounds underwent mandibular premolar and first molar 
extraction, and the sockets healed for 42 days. The mandibles were randomised to 
receive implants with either SLActive (control group) or nanohydroxyapatite 
surfaces (test group). A total of 36 implants were placed in 6 animals, and they 
were sacrificed at 2 weeks (2 animals), 4 weeks (2 animals) and 6 weeks (2 
animals) after implant surgery. When radiographic analysis was performed, the 
difference in bone level between the two groups was statistically significant at 
4 weeks (P = 0.024) and 6 weeks (P = 0.008), indicating that the crestal bone 
level was better maintained for the test group versus the control group. The 
bone-implant contact was also higher for the test group at 2 (P = 0.012) and 4 
weeks (P = 0.011), indicating early osseointegration. In conclusion, this study 
underscored the potential of implants with nanohydroxyapatite surfaces to 
achieve early osseointegration.

PMID: 39283223 [Indexed for MEDLINE]