[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Complex Circuit Systems | Topic: Small Antennas: Miniaturization Techniques and Applications | Type: OpenAlex-OA | Level: Graduate]

[OpenAlex | Circuit Engineering | Year: 2012 | Citations: 84]

Title: Small Antennas: Miniaturization Techniques and Applications

Abstract:
AbstractThe paper presents research results in the field of small antennas obtained at the Department of Wireless Communications, Faculty of Electrical Engineering and Computing, University of Zagreb. A study comparing the application of several miniaturization techniques on a shorted patch antenna is presented. Single and dual band shorted patch antennas with notches and/or slot are introduced. A PIFA designed for application in mobile GSM terminals is described. The application of stacked shorted patches as array elements for a mobile communication base station as well as for electromagnetic field sensor is presented. The design of single and dual band folded monopoles is described. Prototypes of the presented antennas have been manufactured and their characteristics were verified by measurements.U radu su prikazani rezultati istraživanja u području malih antena ostvareni na Zavodu za Radiokomunikacije, Sveučilišta u Zagrebu Fakulteta elektrotehnike i računarstva. Prikazana je primjena više postupaka za smanjivanje izmjera skraćene mikrotrakaste antene. Opisane su izvedbe skraćenih mikrotrakastih antena s urezima i prorezom za rad u jednom i u dva frekvencijska područja. Prikazana je izvedba planarne invertirane F-antene (PIFA) za primjenu u rutinim terminalima sustava pokretnih komunikacija GSM. Višeslojne skračene mikrotrakaste antene uporabljene su za izvedbu antenskog niza za baznu postaju sustava pokretnih komunikacija te kao elementi osjetila za mjerenje jakosti elektromagnetskog polja. Prikazana je izvedba savijenih monopolnih antena za rad u jednom te u dva frekvencijska pojasa. Izrađeni su prototipovi opisanih antena i mjerenjima su ispitane njihove osobine.Key words: Small AntennaPlanar AntennaShorted Patch AntennaPIFAStacked Patch AntennaFolded MonopoleDual Band AntennaKljučne riječi: mala antennaplanarna antennaskraćena mikrotrakasta antennaPIFAvišeslojna mikrotrakasta antennasavijeni monopoldvofrekvencijska antenna Additional informationNotes on contributorsDavor BonefačićDavor Bonefačić was born in Zagreb, Croatia, in 1968. He received his Dipl.Ing., Mr.Sc. and Dr.Sc. degrees from the Faculty of Electrical Engineering and Computing, University of Zagreb in 1993, 1996, and 2000, respectively. Since 1993, he has been with the Department of Wireless Communications, University of Zagreb, Faculty of Electrical Engineering and Computing. From 1993 to 2002 he worked as a research assistant and from 2002 to 2010 as assistant and associate professor. Currently he is full professor at the same Department. His teaching activities include several subjects on microwave engineering and radar systems. In 1996 he was visiting researcher at the Third University of Rome, Rome, Italy. In 1996 he was awarded with the silver plaque "J. Lončar" for outstanding master thesis. Since 2004 he is a collaborating member of the Croatian Academy of Engineering. In 2008 he received the "Rikard Podhorsky" award for his scientific contribution in the field of small and active integrated antennas from the Croatian Academy of Engineering. He is co-author of more than 70 journal articles and conference papers. Besides teaching and research his professional activity includes measurement of field distribution and estimation on health risk of mobile communication base stations and radar installations, technical inspections of radio broadcasting stations, and calibration and conformity verification of RF measurement equipment. His research interests include active integrated antennas and arrays, spatial power combining, electronic beam scanning, small and compact antennas for wireless communications, wearable antennas and wideband antennas. He is a Member of IEEE and member of KoREMA and Elmar Societies. Since 2010 he has been chair of the Microwave Theory and Techniques Chapter of the IEEE Croatia Section.Juraj BartolićJuraj Bartolić was born in Zagreb, Croatia, in 1948. He received the Dipl. Ing., M.S., and Ph.D. degrees in electrical engineering from the University of Zagreb in 1971, 1975, and 1982, respectively. From 1972 to 1974 he worked for the Radio Industry of Zagreb in R&D of microwave radio. In 1974, he joined the Institute for High Frequency Techniques, Faculty of Electrical Engineering at the University of Zagreb, were he was a Research Assistant, Assistant Professor, and Associate Professor. Currently, he is a Professor in the Department of Wireless Communications, Faculty of Electrical Engineering and Computing, University of Zagreb. He served as Head of the Department from 2000 to 2004. Since 1998 he is a member of the Croatian Academy of Engineering. He is the co-author of the book Mixing, Mixers, and Frequency Synthesizers, and the author and co-author of more then 150 technical papers in journals and conferences. His research interests include electromagnetics, antennas and propagation, wireless circuit design, microwave engineering, and electromagnetic compatibility (EMC). He is a Senior Member of IEEE.