[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: Wee Sing | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Wee Sing — Overview

other. Songs "We Wish You a Merry Christmas" "Tapping, Tapping Little Elves" "O Christmas Tree" "Two Little Christmas Trees" "Mother's Knives and Forks" "Here We Come A-Caroling" "Deck the Halls" "Christmas Day" "When Santa Comes to Our House" "The Angel Band" "Little Bells of Christmas" "Star Light, Star Bright" "The Christmas Wrap" "Christmas is Coming" Medley: "Chubby Little Snowman"/"The Chimney" "Gusty the Elf" "Jolly Old St. Nicholas"
"Jingle Bells"
"Down Through the Chimney"
"Santa Claus is Coming"
"Up on the Housetop"
"'Twas the Night Before Christmas"

Wee Sing in the Big Rock Candy Mountains (1991)
An imaginative young girl named Lisa waits until her two stuffed animals, the Snoodle Doodles with red-orange-colored bodies, come to life, and they take her to a magical secret place called the Big Rock Candy Mountains with much food and fun, helping when her friends Debbie and Eric don't want to do what she wants to do. When they arrive there, Felicity Horse with light blue-colored body, Kaiso Cat with brown, dark red, and dark blue-colored body, Profster Owl with blue, purple, and pink-colored body, and the Meecy Mice with light green, peach and light yellow-colored bodies arrive late because of their issues with Little Bunny Foo Foo with mauve-colored body who keeps bopping them on the head and making the Good Fairy so angry at him. How will they ever find out? Songs
"Hide and Seek Chant"
"The Big Rock Candy Mountains"
"Howdy-Ho-Hiya"
"Little Bunny Foo Foo" (F and G major)
"Ring Around the Rosie"
"Follow Me"
"Grizzly Bear"
"Grasshoppers Three"
"Fiddle-De-Dee"
"Fritzy Hammers"
"Upward Trail"
"The Washing Song"
"Sarasponda"
"Baby Birds"
"Row, Row, Row Your Boat"
"Nobody Likes Me"
"Little Bunny Foo Foo II"
"Nobody Knows the Trouble I've Seen"
"Smile (It Isn't Any Trouble)"
"For He's a Jolly Good Fellow"
"Right Hand, Left Hand" (not used in the tape)
"Jimmy Crack Corn"
"The Big Rock Candy Mountains" (Reprise)

Wee Sing in the Marvelous Musical Mansion (1992)
Three children named Alex, Kelly, and Benji and their Auntie Annabella go to visit their Great Uncle Rubato in his Marvelous Musical Mansion where the music boxes come to life, the hat rack sings and dances, and the door knocker requires you to solve a riddle before you enter. However, in the darkness of the night, several small but important items vanish, requiring the children to locate the thief. Each segment teaches the viewer about musical theory or terminology. Songs
"My Aunt Came Back"
"She'll Be Comin' Round the Mountain"
"How Do You Do?"
"My Hat, It Has Three Corners"
"The Orchestra Game Song"
"Tap-A-Cappella"
"The Ballerina's Waltz"
"The Doodle-Det Quintet"
"The Marching Song"
"Vive La Compagnie"
"The Melody Song"
"The Magic of Music"
"Hickory Dickory Dock"
"'Round the Clock"
"Oh Where, Oh Where?"
"Clap Your Hands"
"Reuben and Rachel"
"Hey Diddle Diddle"
"Oh Where, Oh Where?" (Reprise)
"The Magic of Music" (Reprise)
"When the Saints Go Marching In"

The Wee Sing Train (1993)
Two children named Casey and Carter are magically transported into the world of their red, orange, yellow, and green toy train set, and begin a journey through helping several very different locations. Along the route, their engineer friend, Tusky the Elephant (voiced by Adair Chappell), learns how to be careful and think things through. Songs
"Down by the Station"
"Train Is A-Comin'"
"Get on Board, Little Children"
"Home on the Range"
"The Old Chisholm Trail"
"Chuggin' Along"
"Put Your Little Foot Right There"
"Hey, Mr. Knickerbocker"
"Engine, Engine"
"The Vegetable Song"
"Had a Little Rooster"
"The Old Gray Mare"
"I Love the Mountains"
"Two Little Blackbirds"
"The Train Went Over the Mountain" (tune: "The Bear Went Over the Mountain")
"Keemo Kymo"
"Jenny Jenkins"
"You Are Special"
"I've Been Working on the Railroad"
"Get on Board, Little Children" (Reprise)

Wee Sing Under the Sea (1994)
An ambitious young boy named Devin (played by Garrett Courtney) and his granny find an enchanted conch shell that takes them to the ocean floor where they encounter many undersea creatures, including an underwater jazz band and even Ottie (voiced by Patti Voglino), a fuzzy baby sea otter with brown and tan-colored body. Along the way they encounter Weeber (also voiced by Patti Voglino), a lost penguin with black and light blue-colored body who misses his way back to the South Pole, take him back home, and help him be comfortable with his odd light blue color, which makes him different. This story also touches on the destructive effects of pollution. Songs
"Under the Sea"
"Ten Little Seashells" (tune: "Ten Little Indians")
"Creatures in the Sea"
"Bubble, Bubble"
"Little Baby Ottie" (tune: "Golden Slumbers")
"Down on the Ocean Floor" (tune: "Down by the Old Mill Stream")
"Twinkle Starfish" (tune: "Twinkle, Twinkle, Little Star")
"The Clam Dance"
"Sing Your Way Home"
"The Adding Game Song"
"One, Two, Whale That's Blue"
"Oh Dear, What Can the Matter Be?"
"You Are You" (tune: "Jimmy Crack Corn")
"Sing Your Way Home" (Reprise)
"The Pollution Solution"
"Go Round and Round the Coral" (tune: "Go Round and Round the Village")
"I'm a Hermit Crab" (tune: "Joshua Fought the Battle of Jericho")
"Crabby Hermit Changed His Ways" (tune: "Old Dan Tucker")
"Rockin' and Rollin' Under the Sea" (tune: "Rocka My Soul")
"Bubble, Bubble" (Reprise)

Wee Singdom: The Land of Music and Fun (1996)
Wee Sing characters Punchinello, Sillywhim, Little Bunny Foo Foo, Weeber, the Snoodle Doodles, and Trunky (originally Tusky) who are all seven from the earlier Wee Sing Videos, ride the Wee Sing Train to Singalingaland where Singaling the humanoid monster-like mascot with yellow-colored body  (voiced by Mikey Moran) and Warbly the bird-like mascot with green-colored body (voiced by Maureen Robinson) are hosting a big musical party called "The Wee Sing Festival".