[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: pharmacognosy medicinal plant active compound isol | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: pharmacognosy medicinal plant active compound isolation]

51. Fitoterapia. 2023 Jun;167:105496. doi: 10.1016/j.fitote.2023.105496. Epub
2023  Mar 28.

Antibacterial eremophilane sesquiterpenoids from Xylaria feejeensis, an 
endophytic fungi of the medicinal plant Geophila repens.

Rajendran S(1), Robertson LP(2), Kosgahakumbura L(1), Fernando C(3), Göransson 
U(2), Wang H(4), Hettiarachchi C(3), Gunasekera S(5).

Author information:
(1)Pharmacognosy, Department of Pharmaceutical Biosciences, Biomedical Center, 
Uppsala University, Sweden; Department of Chemistry, Faculty of Science, 
University of Colombo, Sri Lanka.
(2)Pharmacognosy, Department of Pharmaceutical Biosciences, Biomedical Center, 
Uppsala University, Sweden.
(3)Department of Chemistry, Faculty of Science, University of Colombo, Sri 
Lanka.
(4)Department of Medical Biochemistry and Microbiology, Biomedical Centre, 
Uppsala University, Sweden.
(5)Pharmacognosy, Department of Pharmaceutical Biosciences, Biomedical Center, 
Uppsala University, Sweden. Electronic address: 
sunithi.gunasekera@farmbio.uu.se.

Geophila repens (L.) I.M. Johnst (Rubiaceae) is a traditional medicinal plant 
used in Sri Lanka for the treatment of bacterial infections. Due to its rich 
endophytic fungi content, it was postulated that endophytically-produced 
specialized metabolites may be responsible for its purported antibacterial 
effects. To test this hypothesis, eight pure endophytic fungal cultures were 
isolated from G. repens then extracted and screened for antibacterial activity 
in a disc diffusion assay against Staphylococcus aureus, Bacillus cereus, 
Escherichia coli and Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Large scale culturing, extraction, 
and purification of the most active fungal extract, obtained from Xylaria 
feejeensis, led to the isolation of 6',7'-didehydrointegric acid (1), 
13-carboxyintegric acid (2), and four known compounds including integric acid 
(3). Compound 3 was isolated as the key antibacterial component (MIC = 16 μg/mL 
against Bacillus subtilis, 64 μg/mL against Methicillin-Resistant S. aureus). 
Compound 3 and its analogues were devoid of hemolytic activity up to the highest 
tested concentration of 45 μg/mL. This study demonstrates that specialized 
metabolites produced by endophytic fungi may contribute to the biological 
activity of some medicinal plants. Endophytic fungi should be evaluated as a 
potential source of antibiotics, especially from unexplored medicinal plants 
traditionally used for the treatment of bacterial infections.

Copyright © 2023 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.fitote.2023.105496
PMID: 36990291 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest Authors 
declare that they no conflict of interest for the work reported in this paper.