[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Complex Circuit Systems | Topic: Molecular logic gate | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Molecular logic gate — Overview

important biomarker, microRNA (miRNA), is crucial in this detection via its expression patterns. Zhang et al. have demonstrated an INHIBIT-OR gate cascade for the purpose, Yue and co. used an AND gate to construct a system with two miRNA inputs and a quantum dot photoluminescence output, and Peng et al. also constructed an AND gate-based dual-input system for the simultaneous detection of miRNAs from tumor cells. Akkaya et al. illustrated the application of a logic gate for photodynamic therapy in their work. A bodipy dye attached to a crown-ether and two pyridyl groups separated by spacers works according to an AND logic gate. The molecule works as a photodynamic agent upon irradiation at 660 nm under conditions of relatively high sodium and proton ion concentrations by converting triplet oxygen to cytotoxic singlet oxygen. This prototypical example would take advantage of the higher sodium levels and lower pH in tumor tissue compared to the levels in normal cells. When these two cancer-related cellular parameters are satisfied, a change is observed in the absorbance spectrum. This technique could be useful for the treatment of malignant tumors as it is non-invasive and specific. DNA computing and logic calculation 
The concept of DNA computing came about as a way to address storage density issues because of the exploding volumes of data information. Theoretically, a gram of single-stranded DNA is capable of storing over 400 exabytes (order of 1020 bytes) of data at a density of two bits per nucleotide. Leonard Adleman is credited with having established the field in 1994. Recently, molecular logic gate systems have been utilized in DNA computing models. Massey and coworkers constructed photonic DNA molecular logic circuits using cascades of AND, OR, NAND, and NOR molecular logic gates. They used lanthanide complexes as fluorescent markers, and their luminescent outputs were detected by FRET-based devices at the terminals of DNA strands. Works by Campbell et al. on demonstrating NOT, AND, OR, and XNOR logic systems based on DNA crossover tiles, Bader and co. on manipulating the DNA G-quadruplex structure to realize YES, AND, and OR logic operations, and Chatterjee and coworkers on constructing logic gates using reactive DNA hairpins on DNA origami surfaces are some examples that mark the progress in the field of logic gate-based DNA computing. Nanorobotics and advanced machines 
Nanorobots have the potential to transform drug delivery processes and biological computing. Llopis-Lorente and co. developed a nanorobot that can perform logic operations and process information on glucose and urea. Thubagere and coworkers designed a DNA molecular nanorobot capable of sorting chemical cargo. The system could work without additional power as the robot was capable of walking across the DNA origami surface on its two feet. It also had an arm to transport cargo. Molecular sequential logic is exemplified by Margulies et al., where they demonstrate a molecular keypad lock resembling the processing capabilities of an electronic security device which is equivalent to incorporates several interconnected AND logic gates in parallel. The molecule mimics an electronic keypad of an automated teller machine (ATM). The output signals are dependent not only on the combination of inputs but also on the correct order of inputs; i.e. the correct password must be entered. The molecule was designed using pyrene and fluorescein fluorophores connected by a siderophore, which binds to Fe(III), and the acidic of the solution changes the fluorescence properties of the fluorescein fluorophore. Molecular logic gate systems can theoretically overcome the problems arising when semiconductors approach nano-dimensions. Molecular logic gates are more versatile than their silicon counterparts, with phenomena such as superposed logic unavailable to semiconductor electronics. Dry molecular gates, such as the one demonstrated by Avouris and colleagues, prove to be possible substitutes for semiconductor devices due to their small size, similar infrastructure, and data processing abilities. Avouris revealed a NOT logic gate composed of a bundle of carbon nanotubes. The nanotubes are doped differently in adjoining regions creating two complementary field effect transistors, and the bundle operates as a NOT logic gate only when satisfactory conditions are met. See also

 Molecular scale electronics
 Molecular machine
 Chemical computer
 Host-guest chemistry
 Molecular switch
 Photoswitch
 Molecular memory
 Quantum computing
 Unconventional computing

References

External links 

 The 3rd International Conference on Molecular Sensors & Molecular Logic Gates (MSMLG) was held on July 8–11, 2012 at Korea University in Seoul, Korea. Logic gates
Molecular electronics
Molecular machines
Nanoelectronics
Supramolecular chemistry