[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: Australian People for Health, Education and Development Abroad | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Australian People for Health, Education and Development Abroad — Overview

APHEDA. Goals and objectives The APHEDA organisation state their purpose is driven towards the achievement of four main areas: Dignity at work Social justice Economic equality The realisation of human rights The organisation plans to achieve this via unions, social movements, sustainable development programs, global solidarity and crisis support. The APHEDA organisation have identified five key values in which they endeavour to operate in line with. These values refer to solidarity, equality and justice, movement-building, accountability and partnership. Funding 
APHEDA is registered with the Australian Charities and Not-for-profits Commission. The organisation derives their funding from "government funding, other grants, donations, fundraising and interest income". The Australian Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade funds several of Union-Aid-APHEDA's projects offshore. Members can pay a minimum membership fee of $15.00 a month which is also contributed to the funding of Union-Aid APHEDA's offshore projects and programs. As a registered "Australian Company Limited by Guarantee", the organisation must reinvest any profits obtained back into the charity's work. In the 2019–2020 financial year, received approximately  in donations and bequests,  from the Australian government and made $0 revenue from the provision of goods and services. In this time, approximately  was spent for use outside of Australia. Structure 
The governing board of APHEDA are elected by their members and the ACTU. Volunteers of the organisation will provide unpaid services for Australian community education and/or assistance on overseas projects. In 2019–2020 financial year, volunteers devoted 330 hours to the organisation's work in community education and 3167 hours towards work on overseas projects. Employees of APHEDA work under the Union-Aid Abroad-APHEDA Staff Agreement 2018–2019. This single enterprise agreement operates under section 185 of Fair Work Act 2009. Volunteers are not considered under this agreement. Partnerships 
APHEDA has 45 partner organisations in 14 different countries. It is proposed there are four main categories of partnership in which APHEDA engage in, they refer to:

 Standards and guidelines development        
 Project Funding
 Provision of services and personnel
 Provision of goods

Criticisms and controversies 
The rise of independence movements in Indonesia occurred in 1976–2005. In 2002, the acting prime minister John Howard's visit to Indonesia was not well received by the government officials. Government officials cancelled scheduled meetings with Howard as it was believed Australia was in support of the West Papua and Aceh independence movements. Howard claimed Australia was not in support of the political tensions in the region. However, the controversies had arisen due to Australian Aid monetary contributions towards APHEDA. At the time, APHEDA were said to be utilising funding to establish Indonesian trade union training programs. Through this, it is said APHEDA were partially responsible for the strike which occurred against the Shangri-La Hotel chain at the end of 2000 for the hotel-chain workers right to freedom of association. The strike required police interference and had several legal implications for strikers. Fines were issued to the unions and staff involved lost their job. The above behaviour was not considered by Indonesian political powers to be in line with the expectations of an Australian non-government organisation, this therefore is said to be the reason many criticisms were upheld against the organisation by some. In the 2018-19 Australian federal budget,  was assigned towards development aid to assist in Palestinian territories under the Australian Middle East NGO Cooperation Agreement (AMENCA 3). Union Aid Abroad-APHEDA was one of four recipients of this funding. It was suggested the use of this funding was controversial. This controversy came from APHEDA's use of funds to assist the MA’AN Development Centre, specifically to repair water points, wells, water tanks and pipelines in the area. The MA’AN Development Centre is located in Ramallah, their mission is to “partner and work with Palestinian NGOs and groups in the community... guided by community participation, a human rights base approach…and empowerment of the poor…”. The controversy arose due to material published by the MA’AN Development Centre which was critical of Israel. The criticisms referred to accusations of war crimes and promotion of the idea Israel profits from the destruction of Gaza. Due to APHEDA's “close affiliation” with Australian political parties, this was considered controversial by some. Conflicts also arose in May 2002. The Fact Finding Mission to the Occupied Palestinian Territories report was released by APHEDA, it was proposed this report did not reflect the neutral standpoint which is required for taxpayer-funded projects. In April 2020, APHEDA in partnership with the Samoa First Union (SFU) conducted an inquiry into Australia's relationship with countries in the Pacific Islands region.