[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: Herbals: Their Origin and Evolution — Arber | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Herbals: Their Origin and Evolution — Arber — Overview

water, so low in fact, that the heads of the men who were in the boats were on the level of the Kearsarge's deck." It is simply ridiculous to suppose that the weight of 240 fathoms of chain could have any such effect upon a vessel of one thousand tons burden; whilst, in addition, the cable itself was part of the ordinary equipment of the ship. Further, the supply of
coal on board the Kearsarge at the time of action was only 120 tons, while
the Alabama had 350 tons on board. The objection that the Alabama was short-handed does not appear to be
borne out by the facts of the case; while, on the other hand, a greater
number of men than were necessary to work the guns and ship would be more
of a detriment than a benefit to the Kearsarge. The latter vessel had 22
officers on board, and 140 men: the Alabama is represented to have had
only 120 in her crew, (Mr. Mason's statement,) but if her officers be
included in this number, the assertion is obviously incorrect, for the
Kearsarge saved 67,[5] the Deerhound 41, and the French pilot-boats 12,
and this, without mentioning the 13 accounted for as killed and
wounded,[6] and others who went down with the ship. When the Alabama
arrived at Cherbourg, her officers and crew numbered 149. This information
was given by captains of American vessels who were held as prisoners on
board the privateer after the destruction of their ships; and their
information is indorsed by the captured officers of the Alabama now on
board the Kearsarge. It is known also that many persons tried to get on
board the Alabama while she lay in Cherbourg; but this the police
prevented as far as lay in their power. If Captain Semmes' representation
were correct in regard to his being short-handed, he certainly ought not
to be trusted with the command of a vessel again, however much he may be
esteemed by some parties for his Quixotism in challenging an
antagonist--to use his own words--"heavier than myself both in ship,
battery, and crew."

The asserted unpreparedness of the Alabama is about as truthful as the
other representations, if we may take Captain Semmes' report, and certain
facts, in rebutting evidence. The Captain writes to Mr. Mason, "I cannot
deny myself the pleasure of saying that Mr. Kell, my First Lieutenant,
deserves great credit for the fine condition the ship was in when she went
into action;" but if Captain Semmes were right in the alleged want of
preparation, he himself is alone to blame. He had ample time for
protecting his vessel and crew in all possible manners; he, not the
Kearsarge was the aggressor; and but for his forcing the fight, the
Alabama might still be riding inside Cherbourg breakwater. Notwithstanding
the horrible cause for which he is struggling, and the atrocious
depredations he has committed upon helpless merchantmen, we can still
admire the daring he evinced in sallying forth from a secure haven and
gallantly attacking his opponent; but when he professes ignorance of the
character of his antagonist, and unworthily attempts to disparage the
victory of his foe, we forget all our first sympathies, and condemn the
moral nature of the man, as he has forced us to do his judgment. Nor must it be forgotten that the Kearsarge has had fewer opportunities
for repairs than the Alabama, and that she has been cruising around in all
seas _for a much longer period than her antagonist_.[7] The Alabama, on
the contrary, had lain for many days in Cherbourg, and she only steamed
forth when her Captain supposed her to be in, at all events, as good a
condition as the enemy. THE CHALLENGE. Finally, the challenge to fight was given by the Alabama to the Kearsarge,
not by the Kearsarge to the Alabama. "The Career of the Alabama," above
referred to makes the following romantic statement:

"When he (Semmes) was challenged by the commander of the Kearsarge,
everybody in Cherbourg, it appears, said it would be disgraceful if he
refused the challenge, and this, coupled with his belief that the
Kearsarge was not so strong as she really proved to be, made him agree to
fight." (p. 41.)

On the Tuesday after the battle, and before leaving London for Cherbourg,
I was shown a telegram by a member of the House of Commons, forwarded to
him that morning. The telegram was addressed to one of the gentleman's
constituents by his son, a sailor on board the Alabama, and was dated "C. S. S. Alabama, Cherbourg, June 14th," the sender stating that they were
about to engage the Kearsarge on the morrow, or next day. I have not a
copy of this telegram, but "The Career of the Alabama" gives a letter to
the like effect from the surgeon of the privateer, addressed to a
gentleman of this city. The letter reads as follows:

    "CHERBOURG, _June 14, 1864_. DEAR TRAVERS--Here we are. I send this by a gentleman coming to
    London. An enemy is outside. _If she only stays long enough, we go out
    and fight her._ If I live, expect to see me in London shortly.