[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: MRI physics image quality artifact reduction | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: MRI physics image quality artifact reduction]

2. Magn Reson Imaging. 2023 Jan;95:70-79. doi: 10.1016/j.mri.2022.10.010. Epub
2022  Oct 18.

Undersampling artifact reduction for free-breathing 3D stack-of-radial MRI based 
on a deep adversarial learning network.

Gao C(1), Ghodrati V(1), Shih SF(2), Wu HH(3), Liu Y(1), Nickel MD(4), Vahle 
T(4), Dale B(5), Sai V(6), Felker E(6), Surawech C(7), Miao Q(8), Finn JP(1), 
Zhong X(9), Hu P(10).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiological Sciences, University of California Los Angeles, 
Los Angeles, CA, United States; Inter-Departmental Graduate Program of Physics 
and Biology in Medicine, University of California Los Angeles, Los Angeles, CA, 
United States.
(2)Department of Radiological Sciences, University of California Los Angeles, 
Los Angeles, CA, United States; Department of Bioengineering, University of 
California Los Angeles, Los Angeles, CA, United States.
(3)Department of Radiological Sciences, University of California Los Angeles, 
Los Angeles, CA, United States; Inter-Departmental Graduate Program of Physics 
and Biology in Medicine, University of California Los Angeles, Los Angeles, CA, 
United States; Department of Bioengineering, University of California Los 
Angeles, Los Angeles, CA, United States.
(4)MR Application Predevelopment, Siemens Healthcare GmbH, Erlangen, Germany.
(5)MR R&D Collaborations, Siemens Medical Solutions USA, Inc., Cary, NC, United 
States.
(6)Department of Radiological Sciences, University of California Los Angeles, 
Los Angeles, CA, United States.
(7)Department of Radiological Sciences, University of California Los Angeles, 
Los Angeles, CA, United States; Department of Radiology, Division of Diagnostic 
Radiology, Faculty of Medicine, Chulalongkorn University and King Chulalongkorn 
Memorial Hospital, Bangkok, Thailand.
(8)Department of Radiological Sciences, University of California Los Angeles, 
Los Angeles, CA, United States; Department of Radiology, The First Affiliated 
Hospital of China Medical University, Shenyang, Liaoning Province, China.
(9)MR R&D Collaborations, Siemens Medical Solutions USA, Inc., Los Angeles, CA, 
United States.
(10)Department of Radiological Sciences, University of California Los Angeles, 
Los Angeles, CA, United States; Inter-Departmental Graduate Program of Physics 
and Biology in Medicine, University of California Los Angeles, Los Angeles, CA, 
United States. Electronic address: peng.hu@gmail.com.

PURPOSE: Stack-of-radial MRI allows free-breathing abdominal scans, however, it 
requires relatively long acquisition time. Undersampling reduces scan time but 
can cause streaking artifacts and degrade image quality. This study developed 
deep learning networks with adversarial loss and evaluated the performance of 
reducing streaking artifacts and preserving perceptual image sharpness.
METHODS: A 3D generative adversarial network (GAN) was developed for reducing 
streaking artifacts in stack-of-radial abdominal scans. Training and validation 
datasets were self-gated to 5 respiratory states to reduce motion artifacts and 
to effectively augment the data. The network used a combination of three loss 
functions to constrain the anatomy and preserve image quality: adversarial loss, 
mean-squared-error loss and structural similarity index loss. The performance of 
the network was investigated for 3-5 times undersampled data from 2 
institutions. The performance of the GAN for 5 times accelerated images was 
compared with a 3D U-Net and evaluated using quantitative NMSE, SSIM and region 
of interest (ROI) measurements as well as qualitative scores of radiologists.
RESULTS: The 3D GAN showed similar NMSE (0.0657 vs. 0.0559, p = 0.5217) and 
significantly higher SSIM (0.841 vs. 0.798, p < 0.0001) compared to U-Net. ROI 
analysis showed GAN removed streaks in both the background air and the tissue 
and was not significantly different from the reference mean and variations. 
Radiologists' scores showed GAN had a significant improvement of 1.6 point 
(p = 0.004) on a 4-point scale in streaking score while no significant 
difference in sharpness score compared to the input.
CONCLUSION: 3D GAN removes streaking artifacts and preserves perceptual image 
details.

Copyright © 2022 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mri.2022.10.010
PMCID: PMC10163826
PMID: 36270417 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest This study was 
supported by Siemens Medical Solutions USA, Inc. The authors MDN, TV, BD and XZ 
are Siemens employees.