[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: cannabis cannabidiol therapeutic epilepsy pain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: cannabis cannabidiol therapeutic epilepsy pain]

33. CNS Spectr. 2025 Apr 25;30(1):e41. doi: 10.1017/S109285292500032X.

Recreational drugs repurposed for medicinal use-cannabis.

Armour M(1), Sinclair J(1), Adler H(2).

Author information:
(1)NICM Health Research Institute, Western Sydney University, Sydney, Australia.
(2)Centre for Social and Cultural Research, Griffith University, Queensland, 
Australia.

Cannabis has a long history as a medicine and was a part of medical practice 
until the late 19th century. The discovery of cannabidiol (CBD) and 
∆9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) in the mid-20th century, and then the various 
components of the endocannabinoid system (ECS) over the following decades has 
again brought cannabis back into the public eye as a potential therapeutic 
agent. At present, cannabis is being used in the community across the world for 
both recreational and medical purposes. In the case of medical usage, it may be 
prescribed by a medical doctor or purchased either legally or illicitly for 
medical purposes such as symptom relief. Evidence for cannabis as a medicine is 
still an emerging field, and while potential mechanisms of action for a variety 
of conditions have been elucidated, including cancer, epilepsy, and chronic 
pain, high-quality randomized controlled trials in humans are still lacking. 
Despite popular beliefs, cannabis, like all other medicines, has potential 
benefits and harms, and long-term consumption of cannabis, even for medical 
reasons, may not be risk-free. In addition, consumption via modes of 
administration such as smoking or using a bong may increase the risk of negative 
health outcomes.

DOI: 10.1017/S109285292500032X
PMCID: PMC13064702
PMID: 40276847 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: MA has previously been an advisory board member 
for Evolv Therapeutics, is currently an advisory board member for Nectar Brands, 
both of which sell medicinal cannabis products. He has also received grants from 
OzMediCann Group and Cannim to run clinical studies on medicinal cannabis for 
women’s health conditions. JS is employed as the chief scientific officer for 
Australian Natural Therapeutics Group. JS also sits on the board of the 
Australian Medicinal Cannabis Association and the scientific advisory board for 
United in Compassion, all in a pro bono capacity. HA has previously published 
articles for Cannabiz, an industry publication.