[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: cannabis cannabidiol therapeutic epilepsy pain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: cannabis cannabidiol therapeutic epilepsy pain]

24. J Small Anim Pract. 2025 Dec;66(12):855-870. doi: 10.1111/jsap.13913. Epub
2025  Jul 14.

Cannabis-based products for medicinal use in dogs and cats: a systematic review.

Moreno-López N(1), Moreno-López C(2), Amariles P(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Research Group on Pharmaceutical Promotion and Prevention, University of 
Antioquia, UdeA, Medellin, Colombia.
(2)Health Economics Group, University of Antioquia, UdeA, Medellin, Colombia.
(3)Research Group on Pharmaceutical Care, University of Granada, Granada, Spain.

OBJECTIVES: Cannabis-based products for medicinal use, also referred to as 
cannabinoid-containing products, particularly those containing cannabidiol as 
the primary active constituent, have shown to be a possible alternative in 
treating various health conditions in companion animals. Thus, this systematic 
review aims to synthesise and analyse the available data on the 
efficacy/effectiveness and safety of cannabis-based products for medicinal use 
in dogs and cats to assist in clinical decision-making.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A systematic review was conducted across PubMed, LILACS, 
Scopus, and Google Scholar from February 2014 to February 2024. The search 
strategy included both MeSH terms and free-text keywords related to medical 
cannabis, including Medical Marijuana, Cannabis and Cannabaceae, combined with 
terms referring to domestic cats and dogs. Additionally, title/abstract 
keywords, including Cannab (as a truncated term), were used to retrieve 
literature on cannabinoids and their therapeutic applications.
RESULTS: Twenty-two articles were identified examining cannabidiol-based 
formulations for osteoarthritis, epilepsy, atopic dermatitis, postsurgical pain, 
and behavioural issues. Cannabis-based products for medicinal use with 
cannabidiol as the primary active constituent demonstrated improvements in pain, 
behaviour, and seizures, with no serious adverse events. However, research on 
their use in cats is limited to two studies.
CLINICAL SIGNIFICANCE: While promising, the long-term efficacy/effectiveness, 
optimal dosages, and safety of cannabis-based products for medicinal use remain 
unclear. Further studies are needed to confirm their therapeutic potential and 
ensure safe veterinary use.

© 2025 British Small Animal Veterinary Association.

DOI: 10.1111/jsap.13913
PMID: 40660612 [Indexed for MEDLINE]