[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: The Herbalist — Meyer | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# The Herbalist — Meyer — Overview

unprofessional if you like, but still nothing to bring down upon them the denouncement to which they have been made subject. So far as Mr. Pickwick was concerned, he had absolutely nothing to complain of in their conduct; and I venture to say it was most reprehensible in him under the circumstances to use the language which he did upon the occasion which I have quoted. But against Mr. Pell there is absolutely
nothing to be said. He perhaps romanced a little with regard to his
friendship with the Lord Chancellor; but which of us would not like to be
on friendly terms with the Lord Chancellor? On that trifling
exaggeration there is nothing practically to be urged against him; and
while I claim for Mr. Pell the position of premier in this matter, I am
sorry I have to accord to Mr. Perker the third place. Well, now, although I would love to linger over Mr. Pell, I must pass on
to say something of the counsel mentioned in this admirable work. But
before I consider the more eminent and the more conspicuous of these,
there is one member of the Bar who is seldom alluded to, but of whom I
wish to say something to-night. I refer to Mr. Prosee. Mr. Prosee very
few of you have ever heard of. He dined with Mr. Perker at Montague
Place, Russell Square, on one occasion. It must have been rather a dull
dinner party, for there were present two good country agents, Mr. Snicks,
the Life Office Secretary, Mr. Prosee, the eminent counsel, three
solicitors, one Commissioner of Bankrupts, a special pleader from the
Temple, a small-eyed, peremptory young gentleman, his pupil, who had
written a lively book about the law of demises, with a vast quantity of
marginal notes and references; and several other eminent and
distinguished personages, including the Mr. Prosee just mentioned. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not know how it is, but I have always
associated Mr. Prosee with the Equity Bar. It may be that his name
suggests it. Well, I come now to the counsel which is better known to you, namely
   Serjeant Snubbin. "We've done everything that's necessary," said Mr. Perker. "I have
   retained Serjeant Snubbin."

   "Is he a good man?" inquired Mr. Pickwick. "Good man!" replied Perker. "Bless your heart and soul, my dear sir,
   Serjeant Snubbin is at the very top of his profession. Gets treble
   the business of any man in court--engaged in every case. You needn't
   mention it abroad, but we say--we of the profession--that Serjeant
   Snubbin leads the court by the nose."

   "I should like to see him," said Mr. Pickwick. "See Serjeant Snubbin, my dear sir!" rejoined Perker, in utter
   amazement. "Pooh, pooh! my dear sir, impossible! See Serjeant
   Snubbin! Bless you, my dear sir, such a thing was never heard of
   without a consultation fee being previously paid, and a consultation
   fixed. It couldn't be done, my dear sir--it couldn't be done!"

Thus was Mr. Pickwick brought face to face with the difficulty of seeing
his own counsel. He could not understand why, having retained the
services of a professional man and paid for them, there should exist any
impediment to prevent access to him. I won't discuss to-night the
advisability or non-advisability of dividing the profession of the law
into two parts, but I do say that any system which prevents litigants
having the fullest personal communication with those they have paid to
represent them is an anomaly and an absurdity. But Mr. Pickwick was a person of determination, and he did see Serjeant
Snubbin, and he delivered to that learned gentleman a short address that
was well worthy of his attention, as it is of every member of the Bar,
including your very humble servant. "Gentlemen of your profession, sir," continued Mr. Pickwick, "see the
   worst side of human nature. All its disputes, all its ill-will and
   bad blood, rise up before you. You know from your experience of
   juries (I mean no disparagement to you, or them) how much depends upon
   _effect_; and you are apt to attribute to others a desire to use, for
   purposes of deception and self-interest, the very instruments which
   you, in pure honesty and honour of purpose, and with a laudable desire
   to do your utmost for your client, know the temper and worth of so
   well, from constantly employing them yourselves. I really believe
   that to this circumstance may be attributed the vulgar but very
   general notion of your being, as a body, suspicious, distrustful, and
   overcautious. Conscious as I am, sir, of the disadvantage of making
   such a declaration to you, under such circumstances, I have come here,
   because I wish you distinctly to understand, as my friend Mr. Perker
   has said, that I am innocent of the falsehood laid to my charge; and
   although I am very well aware of the inestimable value of your
   assistance, sir, I must beg to add that, unless you sincerely believe
   this, I would rather be deprived of the aid of your talents than have
   the advantage of them."

   The only effect this had upon Serjeant Snubbin was to cause him to ask
   rather snappishly,--

   "Who is with me in this case?"

   "Mr.