[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: nanoparticle drug delivery tumor targeting cancer | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: nanoparticle drug delivery tumor targeting cancer]

33. Nanomedicine (Lond). 2022 Oct;17(24):1855-1869. doi: 10.2217/nnm-2021-0364.
Epub  2022 Mar 21.

Nano-based targeted drug delivery for lung cancer: therapeutic avenues and 
challenges.

Ezhilarasan D(1), Lakshmi T(1), Mallineni SK(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Gold Lab, Saveetha Dental College, Saveetha 
Institute of Medical & Technical Sciences (SIMATS), Chennai, Tamil Nadu, 600077, 
India.
(2)Department of Preventive Dental Sciences, College of Dentistry, Majmaah 
University, Almajmaah, 11952, Saudi Arabia.

Most anticancer drugs often fail in clinical trials due to poor solubility, poor 
bioavailability, lack of targeted delivery and several off-target effects. 
Polymeric nanoparticles such as poly(lactide), poly(lactic-co-glycolic acid), 
ALB-loading paclitaxel (Abraxane® ABI-007), lomustine-loaded chitosan, gelatin 
(decorated with EGF receptor-targeted biotinylated EGF) and so on offer 
controlled and sustained drug-release properties, biocompatibility and promising 
anticancer effects. EGF, folic acid, transferrin, sigma and urokinase 
plasminogen activator receptors-targeting nano preparations improve 
bioavailability and accumulate drugs on the lung tumor cell surface. However, 
route of administration, size, pharmacokinetic properties, immune clearance and 
so on hamper nanomedicines' clinical uses. This review focuses on the benefits, 
avenues and challenges of nanoparticle-based drug-delivery systems for lung 
cancer treatment.

Plain Language Summary: Globally, 2 million people are dying annually due to 
lung cancer and it is the leading cause of death among men in 93 countries. 
Currently, lung cancer medicine does not reach tumor sites and induces several 
side effects. Therefore, lung cancer medicines are not effectively reducing lung 
cancer. One of the efficient ways of delivering anticancer drugs to improve 
targeted delivery is the conjugation of drugs with cancer cell surface-targeting 
moieties and encapsulation of unique nanocarriers/nanoparticles. Specific 
nanoencapsulated drugs selectively target EGF receptors, folic acid receptors, 
transferrin receptors, sigma receptors and urokinase plasminogen activator 
receptors on the lung cancer cell surface and deliver the anticancer drugs, 
leading to cancer regression.

DOI: 10.2217/nnm-2021-0364
PMID: 35311343 [Indexed for MEDLINE]