[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: Aluminium alloy | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Aluminium alloy — Not an International Alloy Designation System name

2000 series (copper) 
2000 series are alloyed with copper, can be precipitation hardened to strengths comparable to steel. Formerly referred to as duralumin, they were once the most common aerospace alloys, but were susceptible to stress corrosion cracking and are increasingly replaced by 7000 series in new designs. 3000 series (manganese) 
3000 series are alloyed with manganese, and can be work hardened. 4000 series (silicon) 
4000 series are alloyed with silicon. Variations of aluminium–silicon alloys intended for casting (and therefore not included in 4000 series) are also known as silumin. 5000 series (magnesium) 
5000 series are alloyed with magnesium, and offer superb corrosion resistance, making them suitable for marine applications. 5083 alloy has the highest strength of non-heat-treated alloys. Most 5000 series alloys include manganese as well. 6000 series (magnesium and silicon) 
6000 series are alloyed with magnesium and silicon. They are easy to machine, are weldable, and can be precipitation hardened, but not to the high strengths that 2000 and 7000 can reach. 6061 alloy is one of the most commonly used general-purpose aluminium alloys. 7000 series (zinc) 
7000 series are alloyed with zinc, and can be precipitation hardened to the highest strengths of any aluminium alloy. Most 7000 series alloys include magnesium and copper as well. 8000 series (other elements) 
8000 series are alloyed with other elements which are not covered by other series. Aluminium–lithium alloys are an example. Mixed list

Cast alloys 
The Aluminum Association (AA) has adopted a nomenclature similar to that of wrought alloys. British Standard and DIN have different designations. In the AA system, the second two digits reveal the minimum percentage of aluminium, e.g. 150.x correspond to a minimum of 99.50% aluminium. The digit after the decimal point takes a value of 0 or 1, denoting casting and ingot respectively. The main alloying elements in the AA system are as follows:

 1xx.x series are minimum 99% aluminium
 2xx.x series copper
 3xx.x series silicon, with added copper and/or magnesium
 4xx.x series silicon
 5xx.x series magnesium
 6xx.x unused series
 7xx.x series zinc
 8xx.x series tin
 9xx.x other elements

Named alloys
 A380 Offers an excellent combination of casting, mechanical and thermal properties, exhibits excellent fluidity, pressure tightness and resistance to hot cracking. Used in the Aerospace Industry
 Alferium an aluminium–iron alloy developed by Schneider, used for aircraft manufacture by Société pour la Construction d'Avions Métallique "Aviméta"
 Alclad aluminium sheet formed from high-purity aluminium surface layers bonded to high strength aluminium alloy core material
 Birmabright (aluminium, magnesium) a product of The Birmetals Company, basically equivalent to 5251
 Duralumin (copper, aluminium)
 Hindalium (aluminium, magnesium, manganese, silicon) product of Hindustan Aluminium Corporation Ltd, made in 16ga rolled sheets for cookware
 Lockalloy is an alloy that consists of 62% beryllium and 38% aluminium. It was used as a structural metal in the aerospace industry, developed in the 1960s by the Lockheed Missiles and Space Company. Pandalloy Pratt & Whitney proprietary alloy, supposedly having high strength and superior high temperature performance. Magnalium
 Magnox (magnesium, aluminium)
 Silumin (aluminium, silicon)
 Titanal (aluminium, zinc, magnesium, copper, zirconium) a product of Austria Metall AG. Commonly used in high performance sports products, particularly snowboards and skis. Y alloy, Hiduminium, R.R. alloys: pre-war nickel–aluminium alloys, used in aerospace and engine pistons, for their ability to retain strength at elevated temperature. These are replaced nowadays by higher-performing iron-aluminium alloys like 8009 capable to operate with low creep up to 300C. Applications

Aerospace alloys
Titanium alloys, which are stronger but heavier than Al-Sc alloys, are still much more widely used. The main application of metallic scandium by weight is in aluminium–scandium alloys for minor aerospace industry components. These alloys contain between 0.1% and 0.5% (by weight) of scandium. They were used in the Russian military aircraft Mig 21 and Mig 29. Some items of sports equipment, which rely on high performance materials, have been made with scandium–aluminium alloys, including baseball bats, 
lacrosse sticks, as well as bicycle frames and components, and tent poles. U.S. gunmaker Smith & Wesson produces revolvers with frames composed of scandium alloy and cylinders of titanium. Potential use as Space Materials 
Due to its light-weight and high strength, aluminium alloys are desired materials to be applied in spacecraft, satellites and other components to be deployed in space. However, this application is limited by the energetic particle irradiation emitted by the Sun. The impact and deposition of solar energetic particles within the microstructure of conventional aluminium alloys can induce the dissolution of most common hardening phases, leading to softening.