[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: pharmacognosy medicinal plant active compound isol | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: pharmacognosy medicinal plant active compound isolation]

56. J Ethnopharmacol. 2013 Jun 3;147(3):547-63. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2013.03.066.
Epub  2013 Apr 3.

Medicinal plants of genus Curculigo: traditional uses and a phytochemical and 
ethnopharmacological review.

Nie Y(1), Dong X, He Y, Yuan T, Han T, Rahman K, Qin L, Zhang Q.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacognosy, School of Pharmacy, Second Military Medical 
University, 325 Guohe Road, Shanghai 200433, China.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: In the genus Curculigo, Curculigo orchioides 
Gaertn, Curculigo capitulata (Lour) O. Ktze and Curculigo pilosa (Schumach. & 
Thonn.) Engl are often used in traditional medicine. Curculigo orchioides is 
used for the treatment of impotence, limb limpness, arthritis of the lumbar and 
knee joints, and watery diarrhea in traditional Chinese medicine, and also used 
as a potent immunomodulator and aphrodisiac in the Ayurvedic medical system. 
Curculigo capitulata is used for the treatment of consumptive cough, kidney 
asthenia, impotence and spermatorrhea, hemorrhoids, asthma, jaundice, diarrhea, 
colic and gonorrhea in traditional Chinese and India medicine, and to treat 
urinary tract infection, acute renal pelvis and nephritis, nephritis-edema, 
cystitis, nephrolithiasis, hypertension and rheumatic arthritis in traditional 
Dai medicine. Curculigo pilosa are applied to treat gastrointestinal and heart 
diseases in Africa.
AIM OF THE REVIEW: This review aims to exhibit up-to-date and comprehensive 
information about traditional uses, phytochemistry, pharmacology and toxicology 
of medicinal plants in the genus Curculigo, and has an insight into the 
opportunities for the future research and development of Curculigo plant.
METHODS: A bibliographic investigation was performed by analyzing the 
information available on Curculigo plant from worldwide accepted scientific 
databases (Pubmed, Scopus and Web of Science, SciFinder, Google Scholar, Yahoo). 
Furthermore, information also was obtained from some local and foreign books on 
ethnobotany and ethnomedicines.
RESULTS: Curculigo orchioides, Curculigo capitulata and Curculigo pilosa have 
been used as traditional medicine to treat kinds of diseases such as impotence, 
limb limpness, gastrointestinal and heart diseases, etc. Phytochemical 
investigation of eight species of the genus Curculigo has resulted in 
identification of more than 110 compounds. The content of curculigoside is used 
as an indicator to evaluate the quality of rhizome of Curculigo orchioides. The 
medicinal plants have showed a wide spectrum pharmacological activities, 
including adaptive, immunostimulatory, taste-modifying and sweet-tasting, 
antioxidant, mast cell stabilization, antihistaminic and antiasthmatic, 
hepatoprotective and neuroprotective activity. Toxicological test indicated that 
Curculigo orchioides at the dose of 120 g/kg after administrating rats for 180 
days may cause injury of liver and kidney.
CONCLUSION: The medicinal plants of genus Curculigo have emerged as a good 
source of the traditional medicines. Some uses of these plants in the 
traditional medicines have been validated by pharmacological investigation. 
However, the mechanism of their actions should be further elucidated; the 
particular constituent responsible for toxicity should be isolated and 
identified, and the target tissue and mechanism of toxic ingredients also 
deserve to be further investigated; more reference substances should be 
prepared, and sophisticated analytical technologies should be developed to 
comprehensively assess the quality of Curculigo herbs. These investigations will 
be helpful for further utilization of the plants of genus Curculigo.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2013.03.066
PMID: 23562803 [Indexed for MEDLINE]