[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: natural product antibiotic drug discovery | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: natural product antibiotic drug discovery]

60. Methods Enzymol. 2022;665:325-346. doi: 10.1016/bs.mie.2021.11.009. Epub 2021
 Dec 7.

Glycopeptide antibiotic discovery in the genomic era.

Xu M(1), Wang W(1), Wright GD(2).

Author information:
(1)David Braley Center for Antibiotic Discovery, M.G. DeGroote Institute for 
Infectious Disease Research, Department of Biochemistry and Biomedical Sciences, 
McMaster University, Hamilton, ON, Canada.
(2)David Braley Center for Antibiotic Discovery, M.G. DeGroote Institute for 
Infectious Disease Research, Department of Biochemistry and Biomedical Sciences, 
McMaster University, Hamilton, ON, Canada. Electronic address: 
wrightge@mcmaster.ca.

Glycopeptide antibiotics are essential drugs used to treat infections caused by 
multi-drug resistant Gram-positive pathogens. There is a continuous need for new 
antibiotics, including GPAs, to address emerging resistance and offer desirable 
pharmacological profiles for improved efficacy. Microbial natural products are 
proven sources of antibiotics, and this source has dominated drug discovery over 
the past century. Bacteria from the phylum Actinobacteria are particularly 
renowned for producing a diverse range of bioactive natural products including 
glycopeptide antibiotics. The traditional approach to mining this resource is 
through the culture and extraction of natural products followed by assay for 
cell-killing activity. Unfortunately, this method no longer efficiently yields 
new antibiotic leads, delivering instead known compounds. Whole-genome 
sequencing programs on the other hand are revealing thousands of unexplored 
natural product biosynthetic gene clusters in the chromosomes of Actinobacteria. 
These gene clusters encode the necessary enzymes, transport and resistance 
mechanisms, along with regulatory elements for the biosynthesis of a variety of 
antibiotics. Identification of uncharacterized or cryptic biosynthetic gene 
clusters to unlock the chemical "dark matter" represents a new direction for the 
discovery of new drug candidates. This chapter discusses the identification of 
glycopeptide antibiotic biosynthetic gene clusters in microbial genomes, the 
improved production of these antibiotics using the GPAHex synthetic biology 
platform, and methods for their purification.

Copyright © 2022 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/bs.mie.2021.11.009
PMID: 35379441 [Indexed for MEDLINE]61. Cold Spring Harb Perspect Med. 2015 Jan 29;5(6):a021154. doi: 
10.1101/cshperspect.a021154.

The tuberculosis drug discovery and development pipeline and emerging drug 
targets.

Mdluli K(1), Kaneko T(1), Upton A(1).

Author information:
(1)Global Alliance for TB Drug Development, New York, New York 10005.

The recent accelerated approval for use in extensively drug-resistant and 
multidrug-resistant-tuberculosis (MDR-TB) of two first-in-class TB drugs, 
bedaquiline and delamanid, has reinvigorated the TB drug discovery and 
development field. However, although several promising clinical development 
programs are ongoing to evaluate new TB drugs and regimens, the number of novel 
series represented is few. The global early-development pipeline is also 
woefully thin. To have a chance of achieving the goal of better, shorter, safer 
TB drug regimens with utility against drug-sensitive and drug-resistant disease, 
a robust and diverse global TB drug discovery pipeline is key, including 
innovative approaches that make use of recently acquired knowledge on the 
biology of TB. Fortunately, drug discovery for TB has resurged in recent years, 
generating compounds with varying potential for progression into developable 
leads. In parallel, advances have been made in understanding TB pathogenesis. It 
is now possible to apply the lessons learned from recent TB hit generation 
efforts and newly validated TB drug targets to generate the next wave of TB drug 
leads. Use of currently underexploited sources of chemical matter and 
lead-optimization strategies may also improve the efficiency of future TB drug 
discovery. Novel TB drug regimens with shorter treatment durations must target 
all subpopulations of Mycobacterium tuberculosis existing in an infection, 
including those responsible for the protracted TB treatment duration. This 
review summarizes the current TB drug development pipeline and proposes 
strategies for generating improved hits and leads in the discovery phase that 
could help achieve this goal.

Copyright © 2015 Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press; all rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1101/cshperspect.a021154
PMCID: PMC4448709
PMID: 25635061 [Indexed for MEDLINE]