[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: Carlyle House | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Carlyle House — Overview

the Carlyle House. "Yoga on the Magnolia Terrace" are Yoga Classes hold at the Magnolia Terrace every Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday at 6 P.M. starting in April and ending in October of each year. In popular culture James Phinney Munroe edited and published in 1904 the book Adventures of an Army Nurse in Two Wars based on the diaries and correspondence of Mary Phinney von Olnhausen. The first part of the book talks about the lives of the people that worked in the Mansion House Hospital in Alexandria during the Civil War. The second part about her work also as a nurse in 1870 in the Franco-Prussian War. Mercy Street (TV series) was a fictional medical drama based in the book Adventures of an Army Nurse in Two Wars and produced by PBS in 2016 and 2017, it had 2 seasons with 6 episodes in each one. Paper & Stone: The hidden history of John Carlyle, is a 30-minute DVD-Documentary about the life, history and recent discoveries of the John Carlyle family. It was produced in 2005 by Robert Cole Films & The Carlyle House Historic Park. The DVD has also a 10 minutes video called "Don't get weary" that talks and is about the life of the slaves that worked in the house and in the area. See also

List of museums in Virginia

References

External links

NOVA Parks.org: Carlyle House Historic Park website
NOVA Parks.org: "About John Carlyle"
Alexandriava.gov: Alexandria Sites on the National Register of Historic Places —— Carlyle House 
Virginia African Heritage Program.org: Information on the Carlyle House
LOC.gov: John Carlyle House, 123 North Fairfax Street, Alexandria, Independent City, VA — 'Historic American Buildings Survey (HABS) digital photo archives of Carlyle House.Virginia lists

Houses in Alexandria, Virginia
Historic house museums in Virginia
Museums in Alexandria, Virginia
NOVA Parks
Houses completed in 1753
Houses on the National Register of Historic Places in Virginia
National Register of Historic Places in Alexandria, Virginia
Parks on the National Register of Historic Places in Virginia
1753 establishments in Virginia
Institutions accredited by the American Alliance of Museums
Historic American Buildings Survey in Virginia
Georgian architecture in Virginia
Palladian Revival architecture in Virginia