[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: magnetic nanoparticle hyperthermia cancer therapy | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: magnetic nanoparticle hyperthermia cancer therapy]

7. J Oral Pathol Med. 2019 Oct;48(9):803-809. doi: 10.1111/jop.12921. Epub 2019
Aug  3.

Targeted magnetic nanoparticle hyperthermia for the treatment of oral cancer.

Legge CJ(1)(2), Colley HE(1), Lawson MA(3), Rawlings AE(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Clinical Dentistry, University of Sheffield, Sheffield, UK.
(2)Department of Chemistry, University of Sheffield, Sheffield, UK.
(3)Department of Oncology & Metabolism, University of Sheffield, Sheffield, UK.

INTRODUCTION: Patients with oral squamous cell carcinoma currently experience a 
five-year survival rate of approximately 60% with conventional surgical, 
chemotherapy and radiotherapy treatments. Magnetic hyperthermia offers an 
alternative treatment method by utilising the heating properties of magnetic 
nanoparticles to produce thermal ablation of the tumour site when exposed to an 
alternating magnetic field. In this study, we investigate in vitro if targeted 
magnetic hyperthermia offers a potential treatment for oral squamous cell 
carcinoma.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Magnetic iron oxide nanoparticles, with a biocompatible 
silica coating, were produced and conjugated with antibodies to target integrin 
αvβ6, a well-characterised oral squamous cell carcinoma biomarker. Utilising the 
heating properties of the magnetic nanoparticles, we exposed them to an 
alternating magnetic field to produce thermo ablation of tumour cells either 
negative for or overexpressing integrin αvβ6.
RESULTS: The cell surface biomarker, αvβ6 integrin, was upregulated in tissue 
biopsies from oral squamous cell carcinoma patients compared to normal tissue. 
Functionalisation of the silica coating with anti-αvβ6 antibodies enabled direct 
targeting of the nanoparticles to αvβ6 overexpressing cells and applying thermal 
therapy significantly increased killing of the targeted tumour cells compared to 
control cells.
CONCLUSION: Combining antibody-targeting magnetic nanoparticles with thermal 
ablation offers a promising therapy for the targeted treatment of oral squamous 
cell carcinoma.

© 2019 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jop.12921
PMID: 31309616 [Indexed for MEDLINE]