[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: nanoparticle drug delivery tumor targeting cancer | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: nanoparticle drug delivery tumor targeting cancer]

80. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2025 Jun 30;767:151921. doi: 
10.1016/j.bbrc.2025.151921. Epub 2025 Apr 30.

It takes Two: Advancing cancer treatment with two-step nanoparticle delivery.

Komedchikova EN(1), Kolesnikova OA(1), Obozina AS(1), Antonova AO(1), Dukat 
AM(1), Fedotova PA(1), Khardikova DS(1), Sokol DV(1), Shimanskaia IO(1), 
Svetlakova AV(1), Shipunova VO(2).

Author information:
(1)Moscow Center for Advanced Studies, Kulakova Str. 20, 123592, Moscow, Russia.
(2)Moscow Center for Advanced Studies, Kulakova Str. 20, 123592, Moscow, Russia. 
Electronic address: viktoriya.shipunova@phystech.edu.

The rapid advancement of nanobiotechnology has resulted in the development of 
numerous targeted nanoformulations and sophisticated nanobiorobots for 
biomedical applications. Despite the potential of nanostructures to improve drug 
delivery and therapeutic efficacy, their clinical application is still 
constrained by insufficient accumulation in tumor tissues. Current methodologies 
result in only an average of 0.6 % of administered nanoparticles reaching 
tumors, prompting the development of innovative strategies to improve targeting 
and influence the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of drugs. One such 
approach is two-step targeting, which includes either the concept of tumor 
pre-targeting with specific recognizing elements or the stimuli-sensitive 
activation of nanostructures. This review critically evaluates advancements in 
two-step drug delivery systems utilizing nanobiotechnology for targeted cancer 
therapy. For instance, two-step delivery based on the pre-targeting concept 
involves an initial injection of targeting molecules that bind to tumor-specific 
antigens, followed by the administration of drug-loaded nanocarriers modified 
with complementary adaptors. This approach enhances nanoparticle accumulation in 
tumors and improves therapeutic outcomes by increasing interaction avidity and 
overcoming steric hindrances. We critically assess existing adaptor systems for 
two-step drug delivery and synthesize findings from various studies 
demonstrating their efficacy in both in vitro and in vivo settings, while 
addressing challenges in clinical translation. We also explore future directions 
for developing novel adaptor systems to enhance two-step delivery mechanisms. 
This review aims to contribute to optimizing nanobiotechnology in oncology for 
more effective cancer therapies.

Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbrc.2025.151921
PMID: 40318380 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.