[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS neurology | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS neurology]

39. Clin Neurophysiol. 2018 Aug;129(8):1688-1698. doi:
10.1016/j.clinph.2018.06.003.  Epub 2018 Jun 15.

Transcranial magnetic stimulation in hereditary ataxias: Diagnostic utility, 
pathophysiological insight and treatment.

Rodríguez-Labrada R(1), Velázquez-Pérez L(2), Ziemann U(3).

Author information:
(1)Centre for the Research and Rehabilitation of Hereditary Ataxias, Holguín, 
Cuba; School of Physical Culture and Sport, University of Holguin, Holguin, 
Cuba.
(2)Centre for the Research and Rehabilitation of Hereditary Ataxias, Holguín, 
Cuba; School of Physical Culture and Sport, University of Holguin, Holguin, 
Cuba; Cuban Academy of Science, Havana, Cuba. Electronic address: 
luis.velazquez@infomed.sld.cu.
(3)Department of Neurology & Stroke, and Hertie Institute for Clinical Brain 
Research, University Tübingen, Hoppe-Seyler-Straße 3, 72076 Tübingen, Germany. 
Electronic address: ulf.ziemann@uni-tuebingen.de.

Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) is a valuable technique to assess and 
modulate human brain function in normal and pathological conditions. This 
critical review surveys the contributions of TMS to the diagnosis, insight into 
pathophysiology and treatment of genetically confirmed hereditary ataxias, a 
heterogeneous group of neurodegenerative disorders that can affect motor cortex 
and the corticospinal tract. Most studies were conducted on small sample sizes 
and focused on diagnostic approaches. The available data demonstrate early 
involvement of the corticospinal tract and motor cortex circuitry, and support 
the possible efficacy of cerebellar repetitive TMS (rTMS) as therapeutic 
approach. Further TMS-based studies are warranted, to establish biomarkers for 
early diagnosis and disease monitoring, explore the involvement of the 
cerebello-dentato-thalamo-cortical projection, study the effects of rTMS-induced 
plasticity, and utilize rTMS for treatment.

Copyright © 2018 International Federation of Clinical Neurophysiology. Published 
by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinph.2018.06.003
PMID: 29940480 [Indexed for MEDLINE]