[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: Maxwell's equations in curved spacetime | Type: Instruction-QA | Level: Graduate]

Question: Provide a comprehensive expert-level explanation of Maxwell's equations in curved spacetime in the context of Applied Sciences.

Answer:
In physics, Maxwell's equations in curved spacetime govern the dynamics of the electromagnetic field in curved spacetime (where the metric may not be the Minkowski metric) or where one uses an arbitrary (not necessarily Cartesian) coordinate system. These equations can be viewed as a generalization of the vacuum Maxwell's equations which are normally formulated in the local coordinates of flat spacetime. But because general relativity dictates that the presence of electromagnetic fields (or energy/matter in general) induce curvature in spacetime, Maxwell's equations in flat spacetime should be viewed as a convenient approximation.

When working in the presence of bulk matter, distinguishing between free and bound electric charges may facilitate analysis. When the distinction is made, they are called the macroscopic Maxwell's equations. Without this distinction, they are sometimes called the "microscopic" Maxwell's equations for contrast.

The electromagnetic field admits a coordinate-independent geometric description, and Maxwell's equations expressed in terms of these geometric objects are the same in any spacetime, curved or not.  Also, the same modifications are made to the equations of flat Minkowski space when using local coordinates that are not rectilinear. For example, the equations in this article can be used to write Maxwell's equations in spherical coordinates. For these reasons, it may be useful to think of Maxwell's equations in Minkowski space as a special case of the general formulation.

Summary

In general relativity, the metric tensor  is no longer a constant (like  as in Examples of metric tensor) but can vary in space and time, and the equations of electromagnetism in a vacuum become
 

where  is the density of the Lorentz force,  is the inverse of the metric tensor , and  is the determinant of the metric tensor. Notice that  and  are (ordinary) tensors, while , , and  are tensor densities of weight +1. Despite the use of partial derivatives, these equations are invariant under arbitrary curvilinear coordinate transformations. Thus, if one replaced the partial derivatives with covariant derivatives, the extra terms thereby introduced would cancel out (see ).

The electromagnetic potential

The electromagnetic potential is a covariant vector Aα, which is the undefined primitive of electromagnetism. Being a covariant vector, it transforms from one coordinate system to another as

Electromagnetic field
The electromagnetic field is a covariant antisymmetric tensor of degree 2, which can be defined in terms of the electromagnetic potential by

To see that this equation is invariant, we transform the coordinates as described in the classical treatment of tensors:

This definition implies that the electromagnetic field satisfies 

which incorporates Faraday's law of induction and Gauss's law for magnetism. This is seen from

Thus, the right-hand side of that Maxwell law is zero identically, meaning that the classic EM field theory leaves no room for magnetic monopoles or currents of such to act as sources of the field.

Although there appear to be 64 equations in Faraday–Gauss, it actually reduces to just four independent equations. Using the antisymmetry of the electromagnetic field, one can either reduce to an identity (0 = 0) or render redundant all the equations except for those with {λ, μ, ν} being either {1, 2, 3}, {2, 3, 0}, {3, 0, 1}, or {0, 1, 2}.

The Faraday–Gauss equation is sometimes written

where a semicolon indicates a covariant derivative, a comma indicates a partial derivative, and square brackets indicate anti-symmetrization (see Ricci calculus for the notation). The covariant derivative of the electromagnetic field is

where Γαβγ is the Christoffel symbol, which is symmetric in its lower indices.

Electromagnetic displacement
The electric displacement field D and the auxiliary magnetic field H form an antisymmetric contravariant rank-2 tensor density of weight +1. In a vacuum, this is given by
 

This equation is the only place where the metric (and thus gravity) enters into the theory of electromagnetism. Furthermore, the equation is invariant under a change of scale, that is, multiplying the metric by a constant has no effect on this equation. Consequently, gravity can only affect electromagnetism by changing the speed of light relative to the global coordinate system being used. Light is only deflected by gravity because it is slower near massive bodies. So it is as if gravity increased the index of refraction of space near massive bodies.

More generally, in materials where the magnetization–polarization tensor is non-zero, we have
 

The transformation law for electromagnetic displacement is
 

where the Jacobian determinant is used. If the magnetization-polarization tensor is used, it has the same transformation law as the electromagnetic displacement.

Electric current
The electric current is the divergence of the electromagnetic displacement. In a vacuum,

 

If magnetization–polarization is used, then this just gives the free portion of the current

 

This incorporates Ampere's law and Gauss's law.

In either case, the fact that the electromagnetic displacement is antisymmetric implies that the electric current is automatically conserved:

 

because the partial derivatives commute.

The Ampere–Gauss definition of the electric current is not sufficient to determine its value because the electromagnetic potential (from which it was ultimately derived) has not been given a value. Instead, the usual procedure is to equate the electric current to some expression in terms of other fields, mainly the electron and proton, and then solve for the electromagnetic displacement, electromagnetic field, and electromagnetic potential.

The electric current is a contravariant vector density, and as such it transforms as follows:

 

Verification of this transformation law:

So all that remains is to show that

 

which is a version of a known theorem (see ).

L