[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: Antibacterial plant compounds, extracts and essential oils:  | Type: OpenAlex-OA | Level: Graduate]

[OpenAlex | Herbal Medicine | Year: 2021 | Citations: 512]

Title: Antibacterial plant compounds, extracts and essential oils: An updated review on their effects and putative mechanisms of action

Abstract:
BACKGROUND: Antibiotic-resistant bacteria pose a global health threat. Traditional antibiotics can lose their effectiveness, and the development of novel effective antimicrobials has become a priority in recent years. In this area, plants represent an invaluable source of antimicrobial compounds with vast therapeutic potential. PURPOSE: To review the full possible spectrum of plant antimicrobial agents (plant compounds, extracts and essential oils) discovered from 2016 to 2021 and their potential to decrease bacterial resistance. Their activities against bacteria, with special emphasis on multidrug resistant bacteria, mechanisms of action, possible combinations with traditional antibiotics, roles in current medicine and future perspectives are discussed. METHODS: Studies focusing on the antimicrobial activity of compounds of plant origin and their mechanism of action against bacteria were identified and summarized, including contributions from January 2016 until January 2021. Articles were extracted from the Medline database using PubMed search engine with relevant keywords and operators. RESULTS: The search yielded 11,689 articles from 149 countries, of which 101 articles were included in this review. Reports from 41 phytochemicals belonging to 20 families were included. Reports from plant extracts and essential oils from 39 plant species belonging to 17 families were also included. Polyphenols and terpenes were the most active phytochemicals studied, either alone or as a part of plant extracts or essential oils. Plasma membrane disruption was the most common mechanism of antimicrobial action. Number and position of phenolic hydroxyl groups, double bonds, delocalized electrons and conjugation with sugars in the case of flavonoids seemed to be crucial for antimicrobial capacity. Combinations of phytochemicals with beta-lactam antibiotics were the most studied, and the inhibition of efflux pumps was the most common synergistic mechanism. CONCLUSION: In recent years, terpenes, flavones, flavonols and some alkaloids and phenylpropanoids, either isolated or as a part of extracts, have shown promising antimicrobial activity, being membrane disruption their most common mechanism. However, their utilization as appropriate antimicrobials need to be boosted by means of new omics technologies and network pharmacology to find the most effective combinations among them or in combination with antibiotics.