[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Propulsion Mechanics | Topic: List of artificial objects leaving the Solar System | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# List of artificial objects leaving the Solar System — Overview

the probe it launched. Because these stages cannot be actively guided, their trajectories are now different from the probes they launched (the probes were guided with small thrusters that allow course changes). However, in cases where the spacecraft acquired escape velocity because of a gravity assist, the stages may not have a similar course and there is the extremely remote possibility that they collided with something. The stages on an escape trajectory are:
 Pioneer 10 third stage, a TE364-4 variant of the Star-37 solid fuel rocket. Voyager 1 fourth stage, a Star 37E solid fuel rocket. Voyager 2 fourth stage, a Star 37E solid fuel rocket. New Horizons third stage, a Star 48B solid fuel rocket, is on a similar escape trajectory out of the Solar System to New Horizons, even arriving at Jupiter six hours before New Horizons. On October 15, 2015 it passed Pluto's orbit at a distance of 213 million kilometers (over 1 AU) distant from Pluto. This was four months after New Horizons Pluto flyby. In addition, two small yo-yo de-spin weights on wires were used to reduce the spin of the New Horizons probe prior to its release from the third-stage rocket. Once the spin rate was lowered, these masses and the wires were released, and so are also on an escape trajectory out of the Solar System. None of the above objects are trackable – they have no power or radio antennas, spin uncontrollably, and are too small to be detected. Their exact positions are unknowable beyond their projected Solar System escape trajectories. The third stage of Pioneer 11 is thought to be in solar orbit because its encounter with Jupiter would not have resulted in escape from the Solar System. Pioneer 11 gained the required velocity to escape the Solar System in its subsequent encounter with Saturn. On January 19, 2006 the New Horizons spacecraft to Pluto was launched directly into a solar-escape trajectory at  from Cape Canaveral using an Atlas V and the Common Core Booster, Centaur upper stage, and Star 48B third stage. New Horizons passed the Moon's orbit in just nine hours. The subsequent encounter with Jupiter only increased its velocity, and just enabled the probe to arrive at Pluto three years earlier than without this encounter. Thus the only objects to date to be launched directly into a solar escape trajectory were the New Horizons spacecraft, its third stage, and the two de-spin masses. The New Horizons Centaur (second) stage is not escaping; it is in a 2.83-year heliocentric (solar) orbit. The Pioneer 10 and 11, and Voyager 1 and 2 Centaur (second) stages are also in heliocentric orbits.https://usspaceobjectsregistry.state.gov/Lists/SpaceObjects/DispFormaspx?ID=3348.html

 Future 

Given the huge emptiness of interstellar space, all the objects listed here are likely to continue into deep space in timelines that, barring the exceptionally unlikely chance of their colliding with (or being collected by) another object, could outlast even the Main Sequence existence of the Sun's life, billions of years hence. One estimated timescale as to the likelihood of the Pioneer or Voyager spacecraft colliding with a star (or stellar remnant) is 1020 (100 quintillion) years. They are very unlikely, however, to gain enough velocity to escape the Milky Way galaxy (or its future merger with the Andromeda galaxy) into intergalactic space. Ulysses

In 1990, the solar probe Ulysses''' was launched towards Jupiter in order to reach a high-inclination heliocentric orbit over the Sun's poles; the spacecraft was shut down in 2008. Ulysses is currently in a 79° inclination orbit around the Sun with its apoapsis crossing the orbit of Jupiter. In November 2098, it will have another close fly-by with Jupiter, crossing between the orbits of Europa and Ganymede. After this slingshot maneuver, it will possibly enter a hyperbolic trajectory around the Sun and eventually leave the Solar System.Ulysses'' is now switched off as its RTG power supply has run down, and so is uncontactable and cannot be tracked or guided in any way since 2009. Its exact trajectory is therefore unknowable as factors such as solar radiation pressure could significantly alter its encounter path. Gallery

See also
 Interstellar probe
 Intergalactic travel
 List of artificial objects in heliocentric orbit
 List of artificial objects on extraterrestrial surfaces
 Deliberate crash landings on extraterrestrial bodies
 Oberth effect

References

External links 
Spacecraft escaping the Solar System in heavens-above.com
NASA = Explaining planetary gravity assists
Future stellar flybys of the Voyager and Pioneer spacecraft determined using Gaia Data Release 2

Artificial leaving
 
Leaving solar system