[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: optical coherence tomography retinal diagnosis | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: optical coherence tomography retinal diagnosis]

70. J Med Case Rep. 2018 Dec 4;12(1):358. doi: 10.1186/s13256-018-1902-x.

Swept-source optical coherence tomography and optical coherence tomography 
angiography in acquired toxoplasmic chorioretinitis: a case report.

Vezzola D(1)(2), Allegrini D(3), Borgia A(2), Fogagnolo P(4), Rossetti LM(4), 
Romano MR(2), De Cillà S(1).

Author information:
(1)Eye Unit, University Hospital Maggiore della Carità, Novara, Italy.
(2)Eye Clinic, Humanitas Gavazzeni Hospital, Humanitas University, Bergamo, 
Italy.
(3)Eye Clinic, Humanitas Gavazzeni Hospital, Humanitas University, Bergamo, 
Italy. davideallegrini@yahoo.it.
(4)Eye Clinic, San Paolo Hospital, University of Milan, Milan, Italy.

PURPOSE: To describe swept-source optical coherence tomography and optical 
coherence tomography angiography retinal changes in a case of acute toxoplasmic 
chorioretinitis both at the time of diagnosis and after healing.
CASE PRESENTATION: A 57-year-old white woman suffering from acquired toxoplasmic 
chorioretinitis underwent swept-source optical coherence tomography and optical 
coherence tomography angiography both at the time of diagnosis and after 
healing. In the acute phase of the disease, swept-source optical coherence 
tomography clearly showed retinal and choroidal involvement in the superficial 
retina and in the choroidal swelling. Optical coherence tomography angiography 
showed a complete loss of deep and superficial capillary networks and of 
choroidal vessels in the area of the inflammation. After healing, swept-source 
optical coherence tomography showed a retinal thinning of the area involved, 
with a subversion of retinal layers and no visible change at the choroid level. 
On the other hand, optical coherence tomography angiography showed the 
persistence of a vascular occlusion at the retina and choroid level.
CONCLUSION: This is the first case in the optical coherence tomography 
angiography literature that shows the imaging of toxoplasmic chorioretinal 
lesions. This case confirms the involvement of the retina and choroid in 
toxoplasmic uveitis and the disruptive potential of such inflammation. The 
optical coherence tomography angiography performed after healing showed a 
persistent ablation of the retina, choriocapillaris, and choroidal vessels. The 
non-invasive optical coherence tomography angiography imaging technique may have 
diagnostic and prognostic value in regard to toxoplasmic uveitis.

DOI: 10.1186/s13256-018-1902-x
PMCID: PMC6278094
PMID: 30509327 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: ETHICS APPROVAL AND CONSENT TO PARTICIPATE: 
Written informed consent was obtained from the patient for publication of this 
case report and any accompanying images. A copy of the written consent is 
available for review by the Editor-in-Chief of this journal. The local ethics 
committee ruled that no formal ethics approval was required in this particular 
case. CONSENT FOR PUBLICATION: Written informed consent was obtained from the 
patient for publication of this case report and any accompanying images. A copy 
of the written consent is available for review by the Editor-in-Chief of this 
journal. The patient consented to the submission of the case report to the 
journal. COMPETING INTERESTS: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests. PUBLISHER’S NOTE: Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to 
jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional affiliations.