[Domain: Propulsion | Subfield: Aerospace | Topic: Application of CFD Analysis to Design Support and Problem Re | Type: NASA-TechReport | Level: Expert]

[NASA Technical Reports | Year: ]

Title: Application of CFD Analysis to Design Support and Problem Resolution for ASRM and RSRM

Abstract:
The use of Navier-Stokes CFD codes to predict the internal flow field environment in a solid rocket motor is a very important analysis element during the design phase of a motor development program. These computational flow field solutions uncover a variety of potential problems associated with motor performance as well as suggesting solutions to these problems. CFD codes have also proven to be of great benefit in explaining problems associated with operational motors such as in the case of the pressure spike problem with the STS-54B flight motor. This paper presents results from analyses involving both motor design support and problem resolution. The issues discussed include the fluid dynamic/mechanical stress coupling at field joints relative to significant propellant deformations, the prediction of axial and radial pressure gradients in the motor associated with motor performance and propellant mechanical loading, the prediction of transition of the internal flow in the motor associated with erosive burning, the accumulation of slag at the field joints and in the submerged nozzle region, impingement of flow on the nozzle nose, and pressure gradients in the nozzle region of the motor. The analyses presented in this paper have been performed using a two-dimensional axisymmetric model. Fluent/BFC, a three dimensional Navier-Stokes flow field code, has been used to make the numerical calculations. This code utilizes a staggered grid formulation along with the SIMPLER numerical pressure-velocity coupling algorithm. Wall functions are used to represent the character of the viscous sub-layer flow, and an adjusted k-epsilon turbulence model especially configured for mass injection internal flows, is used to model the growth of turbulence in the motor port. Conclusions discussed in this paper consider flow field effects on the forward, center, and aft propellant grains except for the head end star grain region of the forward propellant segment. The field joints and the submerged nozzle are discussed as well. Conclusions relative to both the design evaluation of the ASRM and the RSRM scenarios explaining the pressure spikes were based on the flow field solutions presented in this paper.