[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: Julip Horses Ltd | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Julip Horses Ltd — Overview

powdery ("perish"), or become gooey. Gooey models can be re-stabilised by storage in a dark, cold place for some time, but the process make take up several years to complete. A 'quick fix' for minor gooey spots is to apply superglue (cyanoacrylate adhesive) to the affected area, but this is not always a long-term cure and glue application may have to be repeated after some years. Fabric should NEVER be applied to gooey areas of latex, as it is almost impossible to remove without further damage and makes proper restoration at a later date much more complicated. In 1989 a new range of Julip horses was launched: the Horse of the Year range. These models were much more solid, being made first of rubber and then of solid plastic, making them much more durable for play than the Originals. Some of this range are sold with accessories, and other miniature stable-yard accessories are available separately. Models have been made in this range as portraits of real horses, such as Horse and Pony's Freddie, Mousie, one of the Julip Director Annabel's own horses or Ted the Clydesdale foal. Some of these portrait models, such as ILPH Bob the Cob, have been sold with some of the profits going to the charity. Currently on sale is the set Rosie and Rocket, some of the profits of which are going to the Mark Davies Injured Riders Fund. In the Originals range, there was a Welsh Cob model of "Oliver" who was being sold to raise funds for the RDA. Many Julip collectors customise the cheaper, less valuable HOTYs and a few dare to have a go at Originals. They can be rehaired, resculpted and repainted as well as any other model and new paintjobs by someone good with a paint brush can go far in the CTF (craft toy foundation) of model horse shows. In September 2013, Julip was split into two different companies - Julip Originals and Julip Horses Ltd. Julip Horses Ltd focusses on the HOTY  (plastic) models, whereas Julip Originals focusses on the latex models. Despite sharing a name and history, neither companies have anything to do with each other, so great care must be taken in making sure that you are addressing the right owner. External links 
 Havillands - a Julip collector's website. Very informative, including restoration advice
 
 

Model horses