[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: curcumin anti-inflammatory clinical trial randomiz | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: curcumin anti-inflammatory clinical trial randomized]

95. BMC Complement Med Ther. 2020 Oct 31;20(1):328. doi:
10.1186/s12906-020-03128-7.

Comparison of oral Nano-Curcumin with oral prednisolone on oral lichen planus: a 
randomized double-blinded clinical trial.

Kia SJ(1), Basirat M(1), Mortezaie T(1), Moosavi MS(2).

Author information:
(1)Dental sciences research center, Department of Oral and Maxillofacial 
Medicine, School of Dentistry, Guilan University of Medical Sciences, Rasht, 
Iran.
(2)Dental Research Center, Dentistry Research Institute, Department of Oral and 
Maxillofacial Medicine, Faculty of Dentistry, Tehran University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran, Iran. ms-moosavi@sina.tums.ac.ir.

BACKGROUND: Oral lichen planus (OLP) is a mucocutaneous autoimmune disease with 
T-cell mediation. Corticosteroids are considered as a first choice in OLP and 
should be used for a long period with a subsequent increase in dose since the 
disease has a chronic and recalcitrant nature. There have been efforts to use 
alternative therapies due to the Corticosteroid's side effects. Curcumin is a 
non-toxic natural product with different effects on various oral diseases. It 
demonstrates antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, antimicrobial, and anticarcinogenic 
activities. It seems that Curcumin can be used as a proper alternative for 
Corticosteroid treatments. To overcome limitations in the bioavailability of 
Curcumin, the therapeutic effect of oral Nano-Curcumin was evaluated for the 
first time.
METHODS: Sixty OLP patients were included in this double-blinded randomized 
clinical trial. The patients were randomly divided into two groups and received 
either 'Nano-Curcumin 80 mg' or 'Prednisolone 10 mg' treatments for 1 month. The 
patients should take one capsule after having their breakfast. The VAS scale was 
used to analyze pain severity and burning sensation. To assess lesion size the 
Thongprasom scale was employed. Repeated measures and independent t-tests, as 
well as LSD paired-test, were used to analyze the data.
RESULTS: Data from 57 patients were analyzed. The level of pain, burning 
sensation, and OLP lesions decreased in both groups of Curcumin and Prednisolone 
and no statistically significant difference was observed between the two groups.
CONCLUSION: Despite many studies conducted to find an effective approach for 
managing OLP, the results have often been unsatisfactory. In comparison with 
previous studies, current results clarify the importance of Nano-Curcumin 
bioavailability in therapeutic effects. Pain VAS and lesion size were decreased 
with oral Curcumin. The results have shown that oral Curcumin can be used as an 
alternative therapy for OLP in patients with the contraindicated Corticosteroids 
or should be used with caution. Oral Curcumin can be used in preventing the 
recurrence of OLP lesions after the treatment and initial control. Moreover, the 
amount of Curcumin dose is more important than its use duration in improving 
OLP.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: IRCT, IRCT20100101002950N5. Registered 9 February 2019, 
https://www.irct.ir/trial/36704 .

DOI: 10.1186/s12906-020-03128-7
PMCID: PMC7603687
PMID: 33129289 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.