[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: Utricularia resupinata | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Utricularia resupinata — Overview

of two bladders on the plant's stem captures the luminescence of these bladders with their "trap door" and trigger filaments branching out. Second, not all of the minute animals sucked into the Utricularia traps are digested, because it has been found that some of the organisms in this “bladder soup” actually assist in prey decomposition, a process similar to what happens in an efficient septic system. “In spite of its tiny volume, the trap fluid in Utricularia plants is inhabited permanently by various commensal microorganisms -- bacteria, cyanobacteria, microfungi, algae, euglena, dinophytes, protozoa (ciliates) and rotifers -- which live in a mutualistic interaction with the plant.” This “miniature food web” offers many ecological possibilities, with potential applications pending further research. And third, the presence or absence of oxygen inside the bladder is a key part of this “sophisticated and intricate” process. “Therefore, captured organisms either die of O2 deprivation and are prey, or are able to tolerate anoxia and are commensals. Utricularia traps likely kill their prey by suffocation.” Lubomir Adamec's research summary while technical, invites the reader to draw on a knowledge of all the physical and life sciences. An intricate collection of valves inside the bladder help govern this complex organ—inviting the reader to appreciate its mechanics, the pumping of water in and out at high speed and pressure; its electro-chemistry, transferring enough voltage when triggered to perpetuate the process; and learning of the symbiosis of minute animal species inside this botanical bladder, either facilitating or becoming food for digestion. Conservation status 

There are substantial concerns over the conservation status of Utricularia resupinata throughout its geographical distribution, with the following list offered by the US Department of Agriculture’s source on “Threatened and Endangered Information:” “Of Special Concern” are Rhode Island and Tennessee; listed as “Threatened” are Massachusetts and Vermont; “Endangered” include Connecticut, Maine, Maryland, and New Jersey; and labeled as “Extirpated” are Indiana and Pennsylvania, with a recent discovery of a species community in the former. Three reasons are offered for this species being of special concern, threatened, endangered, or extirpated—heavy recreational use of waterways; high nutrient levels from lawn fertilizers or faulty septic systems; and competition from native or non-native invasive species. A conservation plan is needed for the protection and proliferation of this delicate but important species which so fascinated Frank Tweedy, Mary Treat, Charles Darwin, and generations of botanists and biologists. See also 
List of herbaria in North America
List of Utricularia species
List of carnivorous plants

References 

resupinata
Flora of Central America
Plants described in 1840
resupinata
Flora of Eastern Canada
Flora of the Northeastern United States
Flora of the Southeastern United States
Flora of the North-Central United States
Carnivorous plants of North America
Flora without expected TNC conservation status