[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Propulsion Mechanics | Topic: Spacecraft electric propulsion | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Spacecraft electric propulsion — Overview

preferred propellants for this kind of system. An electrothermal engine uses a nozzle to convert heat into linear motion, so it is a true rocket even though the energy producing the heat comes from an external source. Performance of electrothermal systems in terms of specific impulse (Isp) is 500 to ~1000 seconds, but exceeds that of cold gas thrusters, monopropellant rockets, and even most bipropellant rockets. In the USSR, electrothermal engines entered use in 1971; the Soviet "Meteor-3", "Meteor-Priroda", "Resurs-O" satellite series and the Russian "Elektro" satellite are equipped with them. Electrothermal systems by Aerojet (MR-510) are currently used on Lockheed Martin A2100 satellites using hydrazine as a propellant. Resistojet
 Arcjet
 Microwave
 Variable specific impulse magnetoplasma rocket (VASIMR)

Electromagnetic

Electromagnetic thrusters accelerate ions either by the Lorentz force or by the effect of electromagnetic fields where the electric field is not in the direction of the acceleration. Types:

 Electrodeless plasma thruster
 Magnetoplasmadynamic thruster
 Pulsed inductive thruster
 Pulsed plasma thruster 
 Helicon Double Layer Thruster
 Magnetic field oscillating amplified thruster

Non-ion drives

Photonic

A photonic drive interacts only with photons. Electrodynamic tether

Electrodynamic tethers are long conducting wires, such as one deployed from a tether satellite, which can operate on electromagnetic principles as generators, by converting their kinetic energy to electric energy, or as motors, converting electric energy to kinetic energy. Electric potential is generated across a conductive tether by its motion through the Earth's magnetic field. The choice of the metal conductor to be used in an electrodynamic tether is determined by factors such as electrical conductivity, and density. Secondary factors, depending on the application, include cost, strength, and melting point. Controversial
Some proposed propulsion methods apparently violate currently-understood laws of physics, including:
 Quantum Vacuum Thruster
 EM Drive or Cannae Drive

Steady vs. unsteady
Electric propulsion systems can be characterized as either steady (continuous firing for a prescribed duration) or unsteady (pulsed firings accumulating to a desired impulse). These classifications can be applied to all types of propulsion engines. Dynamic properties

Electrically powered rocket engines provide lower thrust compared to chemical rockets by several orders of magnitude because of the limited electrical power available in a spacecraft. A chemical rocket imparts energy to the combustion products directly, whereas an electrical system requires several steps. However, the high velocity and lower reaction mass expended for the same thrust allows electric rockets to run on less fuel. This differs from the typical chemical-powered spacecraft, where the engines require more fuel, requiring the spacecraft to mostly follow an inertial trajectory. When near a planet, low-thrust propulsion may not offset the gravitational force. An electric rocket engine cannot provide enough thrust to lift the vehicle from a planet's surface, but a low thrust applied for a long interval can allow a spacecraft to manoeuvre near a planet. See also
 Magnetic sail, a proposed system powered by solar wind from the Sun or any star
 List of spacecraft with electric propulsion, a list of past and proposed spacecraft which used electric propulsion

References

External links
NASA Jet Propulsion Laboratory
The technological and commercial expansion of electric propulsion - D. Lev et al. The technological and commercial expansion of electric propulsion
Electric (Ion) Propulsion, University Center for Atmospheric Research, University of Colorado at Boulder, 2000. Distributed Power Architecture for Electric Propulsion
Choueiri, Edgar Y. (2009). New dawn of electric rocket
Robert G. Jahn and Edgar Y. Choueiri. Electric Propulsion
Colorado State University Electric Propulsion and Plasma Engineering (CEPPE) Laboratory
Stationary plasma thrusters(PDF)
electric space propulsion
Public Lessons Learned Entry: 0736
A Critical History of Electric Propulsion：The First Fifty Years (1906–1956) - AIAA-2004-3334
Aerospace America, AIAA publication, December 2005, Propulsion and Energy section, pp. 54–55, written by Mitchell Walker. Russian inventions
Soviet inventions
Spacecraft propulsion
Electric motors 
Spaceflight articles needing attention