[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Complex Circuit Systems | Topic: Flat no-leads package | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Flat no-leads package — Overview

a moisture sensitivity level of 3 or higher is recommended. Several other issues with QFN manufacturing include: part floating due to excessive solder paste under the center thermal pad, large solder voiding, poor reworkable characteristics, and optimization of the solder reflow profile. Reliability Component packaging is often driven by the consumer electronics market with less consideration given to higher reliability industries such as automotive and aviation. It can therefore be challenging to integrate component package families, such as the QFN, into high reliability environments. QFN components are known to be susceptible to solder fatigue issues, especially thermomechanical fatigue due to thermal cycling. The significantly lower standoff in QFN packages can lead to higher thermomechanical strains due to coefficient of thermal expansion (CTE) mismatch as compared to leaded packages. For example, under accelerated thermal cycling conditions between -40 °C to 125 °C, various quad flat package (QFP) components can last over 10,000 thermal cycles whereas QFN components tend to fail at around 1,000-3,000 cycles. Historically, reliability testing has been mainly driven by JEDEC, however this has primarily focused on die and 1st level interconnects. IPC-9071A attempted to address this by focusing on 2nd level interconnects (i.e. package to PCB substrate). The challenge with this standard is that it has been more adopted by OEMs than component manufacturers, who tend to view it as an application-specific issue. As a result there has been much experimental testing and finite element analysis across various QFN package variants to characterize their reliability and solder fatigue behavior. Serebreni et al. proposed a semi-analytical model to assess the reliability QFN solder joints under thermal cycling. This model generates effective mechanical properties for the QFN package, and calculates the shear stress and strain using a model proposed by Chen and Nelson. The dissipated strain energy density is then determined from these values and used to predict characteristic cycles to failure using a 2-parameter Weibull curve. Comparison to other packages
The QFN package is similar to the quad flat package, but the leads do not extend out from the package sides. It is hence difficult to hand-solder a QFN package, inspect solder joint quality, or probe lead(s). Variants
Different manufacturers use different names for this package: ML (micro-leadframe) versus FN (flat no-lead), in addition there are versions with pads on all four sides (quad) and pads on just two sides (dual), thickness varying between 0.9–1.0 mm for normal packages and 0.4 mm for extremely thin. Abbreviations include:

Micro lead frame package (MLP) is a family of integrated circuit QFN packages, used in surface mounted electronic circuits designs. It is available in 3 versions which are MLPQ (Q stands for quad), MLPM (M stands for micro), and MLPD (D stands for dual). These package generally have an exposed die attach pad to improve thermal performance. This package is similar to chip scale packages (CSP) in construction. MLPD are designed to provide a footprint-compatible replacement for small-outline integrated circuit (SOIC) packages. Micro lead frame (MLF) is a near CSP plastic encapsulated package with a copper leadframe substrate. This package uses perimeter lands on the bottom of the package to provide electrical contact to the printed circuit board. The die attach paddle is exposed on the bottom of the package surface to provide an efficient heat path when soldered directly to the circuit board. This also enables stable ground by use of down bonds or by electrical connection through a conductive die attach material. A more recent design variation which allows for higher density connections is the dual row micro lead frame (DRMLF) package. This is an MLF package with two rows of lands for devices requiring up to 164 I/O. Typical applications include hard disk drives, USB controllers, and wireless LAN. See also
 Chip carrier Chip packaging and package types list
 Quad flat package

References

External links
 Board mounting notes for QFN packages
 MicroLeadFrame® from Amkor Technology
 Edge Protection Technology for QFN Packages from Amkor Technology
 ChipScale Review  magazine, July - August 2000.]
 Linear Technology - QFN Package Users Guide

Chip carriers