[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: photodynamic therapy cancer clinical trial | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: photodynamic therapy cancer clinical trial]

96. Cancer J Sci Am. 1998 Nov-Dec;4(6):378-84.

A phase II/III clinical study of tin ethyl etiopurpurin (Purlytin)-induced 
photodynamic therapy for the treatment of recurrent cutaneous metastatic breast 
cancer.

Mang TS(1), Allison R, Hewson G, Snider W, Moskowitz R.

Author information:
(1)Radiation Oncology Department, Buffalo General Hospital, NY 14203, USA.

BACKGROUND: Chest wall recurrence of breast cancer after mastectomy, radiation 
therapy, and chemotherapy poses a therapeutic dilemma. Further intervention with 
any or all of these modalities is often futile and morbid. Left untreated, 
severe pain, infection, and suffering occur.
OBJECTIVE: To ascertain whether photodynamic therapy may present a palliative 
option for these individuals.
METHODS: A total of 86 lesions (2.4-cm mean diameter) were treated on eight 
patients who had biopsy-proven chest wall recurrence despite surgery, 
chemotherapy, and radiation therapy. Each patient underwent a single 
photodynamic therapy session in which 1.2 mg/kg of the drug tin ethyl 
etiopurpurin (Purlytin) was injected and followed 24 hours later by laser light 
treatment at 660 +/- 3 nm (at 150 mW/cm2 for a total light dose of 200 J/cm2).
RESULTS: With a minimum 6-month follow-up, the objective response rates after 
photodynamic therapy were complete response, 92%; partial response, 8%; and no 
response, 0%. Lesions less than 0.5 cm had a 100% complete response. Morbidity 
was minimal with no systemic toxicity. One patient had a wound infection that 
responded to oral antibiotics. No photosensitivity reactions were reported in 
this set of patients. Posttreatment pain was reported and could be treated with 
medication and application of cold compresses.
CONCLUSIONS: Photodynamic therapy offers an excellent local control rate of 
chest wall recurrence with minimal morbidity after multimodality treatment 
failure. The treatment is given in a single session and on an outpatient basis. 
In patients who may register a partial response or have recurrence or the 
incidence of further chest wall nodules after photodynamic therapy, the 
treatment is repeatable.

PMID: 9853137 [Indexed for MEDLINE]