[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: crystal structure protein drug target binding | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: crystal structure protein drug target binding]

53. J Mol Biol. 1995 Feb 10;246(1):21-7. doi: 10.1006/jmbi.1994.0061.

Crystal structures of a schistosomal drug and vaccine target: glutathione 
S-transferase from Schistosoma japonica and its complex with the leading 
antischistosomal drug praziquantel.

McTigue MA(1), Williams DR, Tainer JA.

Author information:
(1)Scripps Research Institute, Department of Molecular Biology-MB4, La Jolla, CA 
92037.

Glutathione S-transferase (GST), an essential detoxification enzyme in parasitic 
helminths, is a major vaccine target and an attractive drug target against 
schistosomiasis and other helminthic diseases. Crystal structures of the 26 kDa 
GST from the helminth Schistosoma japonica (SjGST) have been determined for the 
unligated enzyme (resolution = 2.4 A, R-factor = 19.7%) and for the enzyme bound 
to the leading antischistosomal drug praziquantel (resolution = 2.6 A, R-factor 
= 21.2%). The protein, recombinantly expressed using the Pharamacia PGEX-3X 
vector for production of GST fusion proteins, contains all 218 residues of SjGST 
and an additional 13 residues at the C terminus. The structure of unligated 
SjGST shows that the glutathione binding site pre-exists unchanged in the 
ligand-free enzyme and is conserved between parasitic and the mammalian class mu 
enzymes. At therapeutic concentrations the leading antischistosomal drug 
praziquantel (PZQ) binds one drug per enzyme homodimer in the dimer interface 
groove adjoining the two catalytic sites. This establishes a protein target for 
PZQ, identifies the GST non-substrate ligand transport site, and implicates PZQ 
in steric inhibition of SjGST catalytic and transport for large ligands. Thus, 
increased expression or mutagenesis of SjGST by the parasite may confer 
resistance to PZQ. Differences in the xenobiotic binding region between 
parasitic and mammalian GSTs reveal a distinct substrate repertoire for SjGST 
and, together with the newly identified PZQ binding site, provide the basis for 
design of novel antischistosomal drugs. Due to the widespread use expression 
systems based on SjGST fusions, the atomic structure of SjGST should also 
provide an important tool for phasing fusion protein structures by molecular 
replacement.

DOI: 10.1006/jmbi.1994.0061
PMID: 7853399 [Indexed for MEDLINE]