[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: curcumin anti-inflammatory clinical trial randomiz | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: curcumin anti-inflammatory clinical trial randomized]

88. Nutrients. 2024 Nov 29;16(23):4150. doi: 10.3390/nu16234150.

Polyphenol Intervention Ameliorates Non-Alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease: An 
Updated Comprehensive Systematic Review.

Ranneh Y(1), Bedir AS(2), Abu-Elsaoud AM(3), Al Raish S(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Nutrition and Dietetics, College of Pharmacy, Al-Ain 
University, Al-Ain P.O. Box 64141, United Arab Emirates.
(2)Department of Nutrition, College of Medicine and Health Science, United Arab 
Emirates University, Al Ain 15551, United Arab Emirates.
(3)Department of Biology, College of Science, Imam Mohammad Ibn Saud Islamic 
University (IMSIU), Riyadh 11623, Saudi Arabia.
(4)Department of Biology, College of Science, United Arab Emirates University, 
Al-Ain 15551, United Arab Emirates.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) has recently emerged as a challenging 
metabolic disorder with a strong emphasis on its prevention and management. 
Polyphenols, a group of naturally occurring plant compounds, have been 
associated with a decreased risk of various metabolic disorders related to 
NAFLD. The current systematic review aims to critically assess evidence about 
the ameliorative effect of polyphenol supplementation on NAFLD patients. A 
PRISMA systematic search appraisal was conducted in PubMed, Scopus, Web of 
Science Core Collection, and all relevant studies published prior to April 2024 
and met the inclusion criteria were included. Twenty-nine randomized clinical 
trials (RCTs) comprised 1840 NAFLD patients. The studies primarily examined 
eleven phenolic compounds, including turmeric, curcumin, resveratrol, genistein, 
catechin, green tea extract, hesperidin, and silymarin. Turmeric and curcumin 
decreased liver enzymes, inflammatory cytokines, lipid profile, insulin 
resistance, and NAFLD score, while resveratrol did not present consistent 
results across all the studies. Most studies on silymarin showed a reduction in 
liver enzymes and lipid profile; however, no changes were observed in 
inflammatory cytokine levels. The dietary supplementation of hesperidin and 
naringenin or green tea extract caused improvements in liver enzyme, lipid 
profile, and inflammatory cytokine, while genistein supplementation did not 
modulate blood lipid profile. In conclusion, dietary supplementation of 
polyphenols could potentially prevent and ameliorate NAFLD. Still, the 
inconsistent results across the included RCTs require further clinical research 
to establish optimal dosage and duration.

DOI: 10.3390/nu16234150
PMCID: PMC11644642
PMID: 39683546 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.