[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: MRI physics image quality artifact reduction | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: MRI physics image quality artifact reduction]

69. Pract Radiat Oncol. 2015 Jul-Aug;5(4):e299-308. doi:
10.1016/j.prro.2014.11.003.  Epub 2014 Dec 17.

Prospective observer and software-based assessment of magnetic resonance imaging 
quality in head and neck cancer: Should standard positioning and immobilization 
be required for radiation therapy applications?

Ding Y(1), Mohamed AS(2), Yang J(3), Colen RR(4), Frank SJ(5), Wang J(5), Wassal 
EY(6), Wang W(3), Kantor ME(7), Balter PA(8), Rosenthal DI(7), Lai SY(9), Hazle 
JD(10), Fuller CD(11).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer 
Center, Houston, Texas; Department of Imaging Physics, The University of Texas 
MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, Texas.
(2)Department of Radiation Oncology, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer 
Center, Houston, Texas; Department of Clinical Oncology and Nuclear Medicine, 
Faculty of Medicine, University of Alexandria, Alexandria, Egypt.
(3)Department of Radiation Physics, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer 
Center, Houston, Texas.
(4)Department of Radiology, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, 
Houston, Texas.
(5)Department of Radiation Oncology, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer 
Center, Houston, Texas; The University of Texas Graduate School of Biomedical 
Sciences, Houston, Texas.
(6)Department of Radiology, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, 
Houston, Texas; Department of Diagnostic and Interventional Radiology, Kasr 
Al-Ainy Faculty of Medicine, Cairo University, Egypt.
(7)Department of Radiation Oncology, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer 
Center, Houston, Texas.
(8)Department of Radiation Physics, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer 
Center, Houston, Texas; The University of Texas Graduate School of Biomedical 
Sciences, Houston, Texas.
(9)Department of Head and Neck Surgery, The University of Texas MD Anderson 
Cancer Center, Houston, Texas.
(10)Department of Imaging Physics, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer 
Center, Houston, Texas; The University of Texas Graduate School of Biomedical 
Sciences, Houston, Texas.
(11)Department of Radiation Oncology, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer 
Center, Houston, Texas; The University of Texas Graduate School of Biomedical 
Sciences, Houston, Texas. Electronic address: cdfuller@mdanderson.org.

PURPOSE: The purpose of this study was to investigate the potential of a head 
and neck magnetic resonance simulation and immobilization protocol on reducing 
motion-induced artifacts and improving positional variance for radiation therapy 
applications.
METHODS AND MATERIALS: Two groups (group 1, 17 patients; group 2, 14 patients) 
of patients with head and neck cancer were included under a prospective, 
institutional review board-approved protocol and signed informed consent. A 
3.0-T magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scanner was used for anatomic and dynamic 
contrast-enhanced acquisitions with standard diagnostic MRI setup for group 1 
and radiation therapy immobilization devices for group 2 patients. The impact of 
magnetic resonance simulation/immobilization was evaluated qualitatively by 2 
observers in terms of motion artifacts and positional reproducibility and 
quantitatively using 3-dimensional deformable registration to track intrascan 
maximum motion displacement of voxels inside 7 manually segmented regions of 
interest.
RESULTS: The image quality of group 2 (29 examinations) was significantly better 
than that of group 1 (50 examinations) as rated by both observers in terms of 
motion minimization and imaging reproducibility (P < .0001). The greatest 
average maximum displacement was at the region of the larynx in the posterior 
direction for patients in group 1 (17 mm; standard deviation, 8.6 mm), whereas 
the smallest average maximum displacement was at the region of the posterior 
fossa in the superior direction for patients in group 2 (0.4 mm; standard 
deviation, 0.18 mm). Compared with group 1, maximum regional motion was reduced 
in group 2 patients in the oral cavity, floor of mouth, oropharynx, and larynx 
regions; however, the motion reduction reached statistical significance only in 
the regions of the oral cavity and floor of mouth (P < .0001).
CONCLUSIONS: The image quality of head and neck MRI in terms of motion-related 
artifacts and positional reproducibility was greatly improved by use of 
radiation therapy immobilization devices. Consequently, immobilization with 
external and intraoral fixation in MRI examinations is required for radiation 
therapy application.

Copyright © 2015 American Society for Radiation Oncology. Published by Elsevier 
Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.prro.2014.11.003
PMCID: PMC4470880
PMID: 25544553 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest Notification: This work was 
supported in part by National Institutes of Health Cancer Center Support (Core) 
Grant CA016672 to The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center. Dr. Ding is 
funded by a MD Anderson Institutional Research Grant Program. Dr. Mohamed 
receives salary support from the Union for International Cancer Control 
/American Cancer Society International Fellowships for Beginning Investigators 
(UICC/ACSBI) mechanism. Dr. Fuller received/receives grant support from: the 
National Institutes of Health/National Cancer Institute’s Paul Calabresi 
Clinical Oncology Award Program (K12 CA088084-06) and Clinician Scientist Loan 
Repayment Program (L30 CA136381-02); the SWOG/Hope Foundation Dr. Charles A. 
Coltman, Jr., Fellowship in Clinical Trials; a General Electric Healthcare/MD 
Anderson Center for Advanced Biomedical Imaging In-Kind Award: an Elekta AB/MD 
Anderson Department of Radiation Oncology Seed Grant; the Center for Radiation 
Oncology Research at MD Anderson Cancer Center. These listed funders/supporters 
played no role in the study design, collection, analysis, interpretation of 
data, manuscript writing, or decision to submit the report for publication.