[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: Road speed limit enforcement in Australia | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Road speed limit enforcement in Australia — Overview

Traffipax brand. In New South Wales and South Australia dual redlight/speed cameras are identified by a "Safety Camera" sign. Queensland is in the process of investigating conversion to dual redlight/speed cameras as the current system is reaching end-of-life. Other speed checking devices Police also use other technology that does not rely photographs being taken of an offence, typically where officers enforce the speed limit in person. 'Silver Eagle'

New South Wales police used the Silver Eagle vehicle-mounted unit. This radar device is typically mounted on the right hand side of the vehicle just behind the driver, and is operated from inside the vehicle. The units are approved for use only in rural areas where traffic is sparse, and may be used from a stationary or moving vehicle. 'Stalker'
Police vehicles in New South Wales have recently been fitted with a dual-radar known as the Stalker DSR 2X, which is able to monitor vehicles moving in two different directions at the same time. Other
NSW police also use LIDAR devices as well as vehicle speedometers and speed estimates to prosecute speeding motorists. The TIRTL device is deployed as a speed measurement sensor in Victoria and New South Wales. The device consists of a pair of sensors embedded in the curb that use a series of infrared beams to monitor vehicles at wheel height. Although the sensors themselves are very difficult to see, they are accompanied by a standard Traffipax camera to capture images of the offence. The state of New South Wales approved the device in November 2008 for use in the state as dual red light / speed cameras (named "safety cameras" under the Roads & Traffic Authority's terminology). Motorcycle and bicycle-mounted police in New South Wales are equipped with the binocular-styled "Pro-Lite+" LIDAR device. History

Victoria
Started with a small trial in 1985 using signed cameras with minimal effect. The major introduction was at the end of 1989 with hidden speed cameras starting at around 500 hours/month increasing to 4,000 hours/month by 1992. During the testing of the cameras the percentage of drivers speeding (over the speed camera thresholds) was 24% and by the end of 1992 this had dropped to 4%. The revenue collected by each camera dropped from $2,000/hour to $1,000/hour over 18 months. The road toll dropped from 776 in 1989 (no cameras) to 396 in 1992 (49% drop). New South Wales
Mobile speed cameras were first used in New South Wales in 1991. In 1999 the authorities began to install fixed cameras, and signs warning of their presence, at crash black spots. Western Australia
The government of Western Australia started using speed cameras in 1988. See also
Point system

References

External links

State-published speed camera locations
Transport for NSW page of speed camera locations - NSW
Red Light and Speed Camera Locations Victoria - Victoria
Transport Department - Red Light / Speed Camera Locations - South Australia
SA Police Speed Camera Locations - South Australia
Speedometers and Speeding Fines

Driving in Australia
Road transport in Australia
Road safety in Australia
Traffic enforcement cameras