[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: biomaterial implant osseointegration titanium clin | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: biomaterial implant osseointegration titanium clinical]

37. ACS Appl Mater Interfaces. 2020 Mar 25;12(12):13644-13656. doi: 
10.1021/acsami.9b22474. Epub 2020 Mar 13.

Controlled Delivery of Curcumin and Vitamin K2 from Hydroxyapatite-Coated 
Titanium Implant for Enhanced in Vitro Chemoprevention, Osteogenesis, and in 
Vivo Osseointegration.

Sarkar N(1), Bose S(1).

Author information:
(1)W. M. Keck Biomedical Materials Research Laboratory School of Mechanical and 
Materials Engineering Washington State University Pullman, Washington 99164, 
United States.

Successful repair of critical-sized tumor-resection defects, especially in 
load-bearing bones, still remains a major challenge in clinical orthopedics. 
Titanium (Ti) implants have been increasingly used in the past few decades 
because of titanium's suitable mechanical properties and biocompatibility; 
however, it shows insufficient integration with the surrounding bone. In this 
study, the plasma spray technique is utilized to form homogeneous hydroxyapatite 
(HA) coating on the surface of the Ti implant to enhance osseointegration at the 
tissue-implant interface. These coated implants are loaded with curcumin and 
vitamin K2 to introduce chemopreventive and osteogenesis ability via controlled 
release of these biomolecules. The synergistic effect of these two biomolecules 
showed enhanced in vitro osteoblast (hFOB) cell attachment and proliferation for 
11 days. Moreover, these biomolecules showed lower in vitro osteosarcoma (MG-63) 
cell proliferation after 3, 7, and 11 days. An in vivo study was carried out to 
evaluate the bone bonded zone in a rat distal femur model at an early wound 
healing stage of 5 days. Modified Masson Goldner staining of the tissue-implant 
section showed improved contact between tissue and implant in dual drug-loaded 
HA-coated Ti implants compared to control implants. This work presents a 
successful fabrication of a mechanically competent functional Ti implant with 
the advantages of enhanced in vitro osteoblast proliferation, osteosarcoma 
inhibition, and in vivo osseointegration, indicating the potential for 
load-bearing bone-defect repair after tumor resection.

DOI: 10.1021/acsami.9b22474
PMCID: PMC8015417
PMID: 32013377 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing financial 
interest.