[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: cannabis cannabidiol therapeutic epilepsy pain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: cannabis cannabidiol therapeutic epilepsy pain]

94. J Cannabis Res. 2025 Nov 19;7(1):94. doi: 10.1186/s42238-025-00306-7.

Assessing patient perceptions of off-label cannabidiol use for insomnia through 
sentiment analysis.

Pereira GRC(#)(1), de Brito Mantuan A(#)(2), Dos Santos Oliveira JC(1), Fares 
GES(1), Dos Santos Santiago Sá VM(1), de Sousa VP(1), Rodrigues CR(1), Cabral 
LM(3).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Pharmacy, Federal University of Rio de Janeiro, 373 Carlos Chagas 
Filho Avenue, Rio de Janeiro, Rio de Janeiro, 21941-170, Brazil.
(2)Computer Institute, Federal Fluminense University, Gen. Milton Tavares de 
Souza Avenue, Niteroi, Rio de Janeiro, 24210-310, Brazil.
(3)Computer Institute, Federal Fluminense University, Gen. Milton Tavares de 
Souza Avenue, Niteroi, Rio de Janeiro, 24210-310, Brazil. 
lmcabral2@yahoo.com.br.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Recent global policy shifts have greatly expanded access to and the 
market for medicinal cannabis, broadening its availability for therapeutic use. 
These changes have led to a notable increase in off-label prescriptions of 
cannabidiol (CBD) based products, particularly for conditions such as epilepsy, 
anxiety, depression, insomnia, and chronic pain. Despite its growing popularity, 
clinical studies investigating the efficacy of CBD for insomnia remain limited, 
raising questions about its suitability for decision support. In this scenario, 
sentiment analysis provides an additional, low-cost, and measurable outcome of 
patients' perceptions, which has proven valuable in offering an additional layer 
of understanding regarding the perceived effectiveness of treatments. Therefore, 
the objective of this study was to assess patients' perception regarding 
off-label CBD use for insomnia through sentiment analysis.
METHODS: English-language tweets related to CBD use for insomnia were collected 
from June 25, 2018, to January 9, 2023. The data was cleaned, and a 
representative subset of comments was manually labeled by experts. Then, a 
ROBERTA-based model was trained to automatically classify the remaining tweets 
in the database as either signals or noise. Finally, topic modeling and 
sentiment analysis were performed on the database of signal tweets.
RESULTS: From the 74,562 unique comments retrieved, 25,005 were classified as 
relevant based on both manual labeling and predictions made by the validated 
model. Topic modeling revealed eleven major themes, including the perceived 
efficacy of CBD for anxiety, pain, and insomnia, as well as practical 
considerations regarding treatment routines and preparation preferences. 
Sentiment analysis revealed positive feedback regarding CBD's use for insomnia, 
indicating that most users perceive it as an effective treatment for this 
condition.
CONCLUSIONS: This study offers valuable insights into patient perceptions of 
off-label CBD use for insomnia, suggesting that CBD may indeed be beneficial for 
this condition, which aligns with existing, albeit limited, experimental 
evidence. Consequently, further research is necessary to confirm its efficacy. 
In this scenario, the application of sentiment analysis emerges as an effective 
tool for assessing patient perceptions, providing a richer context that 
complements the still limited evidence from traditional clinical trials on CBD 
use for insomnia.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Not applicable.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s42238-025-00306-7
PMCID: PMC12628953
PMID: 41257970

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: This study does not involve experiments on animals or humans. 
Furthermore, all data presented in this manuscript was sourced from public 
repositories and is fully compliant with the General Data Protection Regulation 
(GDPR) and other applicable data protection laws, adhering to best practices in 
privacy preservation. No personal or sensitive information was collected or 
processed during this research. Consent for publication: All authors confirm 
that they are aware of and agree with the submission and publication of this 
study. Each author has reviewed the final version of the manuscript and consents 
to its publication. Competing interests: The authors declare no competing 
interests.