[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: magnetic resonance spectroscopy metabolite brain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: magnetic resonance spectroscopy metabolite brain]

65. PLoS One. 2013 Nov 28;8(11):e82746. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0082746. 
eCollection 2013.

Neonatal brain metabolite concentrations: an in vivo magnetic resonance 
spectroscopy study with a clinical MR system at 3 Tesla.

Tomiyasu M(1), Aida N, Endo M, Shibasaki J, Nozawa K, Shimizu E, Tsuji H, Obata 
T.

Author information:
(1)Research Center for Charged Particle Therapy, National Institute of 
Radiological Sciences, Chiba, Japan ; Department of Radiology, Kanagawa 
Children's Medical Center, Yokohama, Japan ; Research Center for Child Mental 
Development, Chiba University Graduate School of Medicine, Chiba, Japan.

Brain metabolite concentrations change dynamically throughout development, 
especially during early childhood. The purpose of this study was to investigate 
the brain metabolite concentrations of neonates (postconceptional age (PCA): 30 
to 43 weeks) using single-voxel magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) and to 
discuss the relationships between the changes in the concentrations of such 
metabolites and brain development during the neonatal period. A total of 83 
neonatal subjects were included using the following criteria: the neonates had 
to be free of radiological abnormalities, organic illness, and neurological 
symptoms; the MR spectra had to have signal-to-noise ratios ≥ 4; and the 
estimated metabolite concentrations had to display Cramér-Rao lower bounds of ≤ 
30%. MRS data (echo time/repetition time, 30/5000 ms; 3T) were acquired from the 
basal ganglia (BG), centrum semiovale (CS), and the cerebellum. The 
concentrations of five metabolites were measured: creatine, choline, 
N-acetylaspartate, myo-inositol, and glutamate/glutamine complex (Glx). One 
hundred and eighty-four MR spectra were obtained (83 BG, 77 CS, and 24 
cerebellum spectra). Creatine, N-acetylaspartate, and Glx displayed increases in 
their concentrations with PCA. Choline was not correlated with PCA in any 
region. As for myo-inositol, its concentration decreased with PCA in the BG, 
whereas it increased with PCA in the cerebellum. Quantitative brain metabolite 
concentrations and their changes during the neonatal period were assessed. 
Although the observed changes were partly similar to those detected in previous 
reports, our results are with more subjects (n = 83), and higher magnetic field 
(3T). The metabolite concentrations examined in this study and their changes are 
clinically useful indices of neonatal brain development.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0082746
PMCID: PMC3842974
PMID: 24312433 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.