[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: curcumin anti-inflammatory clinical trial randomiz | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: curcumin anti-inflammatory clinical trial randomized]

72. Biofactors. 2023 Jan;49(1):108-118. doi: 10.1002/biof.1874. Epub 2022 Jun 8.

Three months of combination therapy with nano-curcumin reduces the inflammation 
and lipoprotein (a) in type 2 diabetic patients with mild to moderate coronary 
artery disease: Evidence of a randomized, double-blinded, placebo-controlled 
clinical trial.

Dastani M(1), Rahimi HR(2)(3), Askari VR(4)(5)(6), Jaafari MR(7), Jarahi L(8), 
Yadollahi A(1), Rahimi VB(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiovascular Diseases, Faculty of Medicine, Mashhad 
University of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran.
(2)Vascular and Endovascular Surgery Research Center, Mashhad University of 
Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran.
(3)Department of Medical Genetics and Molecular Medicine, School of Medicine, 
Mashhad University of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran.
(4)Applied Biomedical Research Center, Mashhad University of Medical Sciences, 
Mashhad, Iran.
(5)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences in Persian Medicine, School of Persian 
and Complementary Medicine, Mashhad University of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, 
Iran.
(6)Department of Persian Medicine, School of Persian and Complementary Medicine, 
Mashhad University of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran.
(7)Nanotechnology Research Center, Pharmaceutical Technology Institute, Mashhad 
University of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran.
(8)Department of Community Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, Mashhad University of 
Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran.

Diabetes is one of the most common chronic diseases worldwide. Systemic 
inflammation (high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hs-CRP)) and lipid metabolism 
disruption (lipoprotein A, LipoPr (a)) play a critical role in developing and 
progressing atherosclerosis and acute coronary syndrome in diabetic patients. 
The anti-oxidant and anti-inflammatory effects of curcumin have been emphasized 
previously. Therefore, we aimed to evaluate the impact of nano-curcumin on 
cardiovascular risk factors in type 2 diabetic patients with mild to moderate 
coronary artery disease (CAD). We performed a randomized, double-blinded, 
placebo-controlled clinical trial with type 2 diabetic patients (n = 64), and 
mild to moderate CAD (<70% stenosis in angiography). The patients received 
nano-curcumin (80 mg/day) or placebo along with optimal medications for 90 days. 
The biofactors, including hs-CRP and LipoPr (a), and lipid profile, were 
measured at the admission of patients and end of the study. Nano-curcumin 
significantly mitigated the hs-CRP and LipoPr (a) levels following 90 days of 
treatment (P < 0.001 and P = 0.043, respectively). In addition, the mean 
percentage of change (%Δ) in the hs-CRP and LipoPr (a) levels were meaningfully 
reduced in the nano-curcumin group compared to the placebo group (P < 0.001 and 
P = 0.007, respectively). Surprisingly, nano-curcumin notably propagated the 
number of patients with mild (34.35%) and moderate (62.5%) hs-CRP level category 
and strikingly diminished the number of patients with severe hs-CRP level 
category (3.125%) compared to the placebo group (P = 0.016). Nano-curcumin 
(80 mg/day) might prevent atherosclerosis progression and, in terms of 
attenuating hs-CRP levels as an inflammation index, succedent cardiovascular 
events in diabetic heart patients.

© 2022 International Union of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology.

DOI: 10.1002/biof.1874
PMID: 35674733 [Indexed for MEDLINE]