[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: Mathematical descriptions of the electromagnetic field | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Mathematical descriptions of the electromagnetic field — Overview

a freedom to constrain the form of the potentials provided that this does not affect the resultant electric and magnetic fields, called gauge freedom. Specifically for these equations, for any choice of a twice-differentiable scalar function of position and time λ, if is a solution for a given system, then so is another potential given by: This freedom can be used to simplify the potential formulation. Either of two such scalar functions is typically chosen: the Coulomb gauge and the Lorenz gauge. Coulomb gauge

The Coulomb gauge is chosen in such a way that , which corresponds to the case of magnetostatics. In terms of λ, this means that it must satisfy the equation

This choice of function results in the following formulation of Maxwell's equations:

Several features about Maxwell's equations in the Coulomb gauge are as follows. Firstly, solving for the electric potential is very easy, as the equation is a version of Poisson's equation. Secondly, solving for the magnetic vector potential is particularly difficult. This is the big disadvantage of this gauge. The third thing to note, and something which is not immediately obvious, is that the electric potential changes instantly everywhere in response to a change in conditions in one locality. For instance, if a charge is moved in New York at 1 pm local time, then a hypothetical observer in Australia who could measure the electric potential directly would measure a change in the potential at 1 pm New York time. This seemingly violates causality in special relativity, i.e. the impossibility of information, signals, or anything travelling faster than the speed of light. The resolution to this apparent problem lies in the fact that, as previously stated, no observers can measure the potentials; they measure the electric and magnetic fields. So, the combination of ∇φ and ∂A/∂t used in determining the electric field restores the speed limit imposed by special relativity for the electric field, making all observable quantities consistent with relativity. Lorenz gauge condition

A gauge that is often used is the Lorenz gauge condition. In this, the scalar function λ is chosen such that

meaning that λ must satisfy the equation

The Lorenz gauge results in the following form of Maxwell's equations:

The operator  is called the d'Alembertian (some authors denote this by only the square ). These equations are inhomogeneous versions of the wave equation, with the terms on the right side of the equation serving as the source functions for the wave. As with any wave equation, these equations lead to two types of solution: advanced potentials (which are related to the configuration of the sources at future points in time), and retarded potentials (which are related to the past configurations of the sources); the former are usually disregarded where the field is to analyzed from a causality perspective. As pointed out above, the Lorenz gauge is no more valid than any other gauge since the potentials cannot be directly measured, however the Lorenz gauge has the advantage of the equations being Lorentz invariant. Extension to quantum electrodynamics

Canonical quantization of the electromagnetic fields proceeds by elevating the scalar and vector potentials; φ(x), A(x), from fields to field operators. Substituting  into the previous Lorenz gauge equations gives:

Here, J and ρ are the current and charge density of the matter field. If the matter field is taken so as to describe the interaction of electromagnetic fields with the Dirac electron given by the four-component Dirac spinor field ψ, the current and charge densities have form:

where α are the first three Dirac matrices. Using this, we can re-write Maxwell's equations as:

which is the form used in quantum electrodynamics. Geometric algebra formulations

Analogous to the tensor formulation, two objects, one for the electromagnetic field and one for the current density, are introduced. In geometric algebra (GA) these are multivectors. Algebra of physical space

In the Algebra of physical space (APS), also known as the Clifford algebra , the field and current are represented by multivectors. The field multivector, known as the Riemann–Silberstein vector, is

and the current multivector is

using an orthonormal basis . Similarly, the unit pseudoscalar is , due to the fact that the basis used is orthonormal. These basis vectors share the algebra of the Pauli matrices, but are usually not equated with them, as they are different objects with different interpretations. After defining the derivative

Maxwell's equations are reduced to the single equation

In three dimensions, the derivative has a special structure allowing the introduction of a cross product:

from which it is easily seen that Gauss's law is the scalar part, the Ampère–Maxwell law is the vector part, Faraday's law is the pseudovector part, and Gauss's law for magnetism is the pseudoscalar part of the equation. After expanding and rearranging, this can be written as

Spacetime algebra

We can identify APS as a subalgebra of the spacetime algebra (STA) , defining  and .