[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: ethnobotany traditional medicine biological activi | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: ethnobotany traditional medicine biological activity]

26. Phytochemistry. 2022 Jun;198:113165. doi: 10.1016/j.phytochem.2022.113165.
Epub  2022 Mar 23.

The ethnobotany, phytochemistry, and biological properties of Nigella damascena 
- A review.

Badalamenti N(1), Modica A(1), Bazan G(2), Marino P(3), Bruno M(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological, Chemical and Pharmaceutical Sciences and 
Technologies (STEBICEF), University of Palermo, Palermo, Italy.
(2)Department of Biological, Chemical and Pharmaceutical Sciences and 
Technologies (STEBICEF), University of Palermo, Palermo, Italy. Electronic 
address: giuseppe.bazan@unipa.it.
(3)Bona Furtuna LLC, Los Gatos, CA, 95030, USA. Electronic address: 
marino@bonafurtuna.com.
(4)Department of Biological, Chemical and Pharmaceutical Sciences and 
Technologies (STEBICEF), University of Palermo, Palermo, Italy; Centro 
Interdipartimentale di Ricerca 'Riutilizzo Bio-based degli scarti da matrici 
agroalimentari' (RIVIVE), University of Palermo, Italy.

This review is a systematic scientific work on medicinal and traditional use, on 
the chemical composition of specialized metabolites, volatile and non-volatile, 
on aspects related to toxicology and phytotherapy of Nigella damascena L. The 
genus Nigella (Ranunculaceae) is distributed throughout the Mediterranean basin, 
extending to northern India, and has been divided into three sections. Nigella 
damanscena L. is traditionally used as an ingredient in food, for example, as 
flavouring agents in bread and cheese, but is also known in folk medicine, used 
to regulate menstruation; for catarrhal affections and amenorrhea; as a diuretic 
and sternutatory; as an analgesic, anti-oedematous, and antipyretic; and for 
vermifuge and its disinfectant effects. This paper reviews the most dated to the 
latest scientific research on this species, highlighting the single isolated 
metabolites and exploring their biological activity. Fifty-seven natural 
compounds have been isolated and characterised from the seeds, roots, and aerial 
parts of the plant. Among these constituents, alkaloids, flavonoids, diterpenes, 
triterpenes, and aromatic compounds are the main constituents. The isolated 
compounds and the various extracts obtained with solvents of different 
polarities presented a diverse spectrum of biological activities such as 
antibacterial, antifungal, antitumour, antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, 
antipyretic, anti-oedema, and antiviral activities. Various in vitro and in vivo 
tests have demonstrated the pharmacological potential of β-elemene and alkaloid 
damascenin. Unfortunately, the largest number of biological studies on this 
species and its metabolites have been conducted in vitro; therefore, further 
investigation is necessary to evaluate the toxicological aspects and real 
mechanisms of action of crude extracts to confirm the therapeutic potential of 
N. damascena.

Copyright © 2022 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.phytochem.2022.113165
PMID: 35339516 [Indexed for MEDLINE]