[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS neurology | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS neurology]

72. Neurology. 2007 Feb 13;68(7):484-8. doi: 10.1212/01.wnl.0000250268.13789.b2.

Transcranial magnetic stimulation: diagnostic, therapeutic, and research 
potential.

Rossini PM(1), Rossi S.

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Neuroscienze, S. Giovanni Calibita, Ospedale Fatebenefratelli 
Isola Tiberina, Roma, Italy. paolomaria.rossini@afar.it

Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) is a 20-year-old technique originally 
introduced to noninvasively investigate nervous propagation along the 
corticospinal tract, spinal roots, and peripheral nerves in humans. TMS is 
extensively used in clinical neurophysiology, including rehabilitation and 
intraoperative monitoring. Single-pulse TMS and other more recent versions 
(paired-pulse TMS, repetitive TMS, integration with structural and functional 
MRI, and neuronavigation) allow motor output to be mapped precisely to a given 
body district. Moreover, TMS can be used to evaluate excitatory/inhibitory 
intracortical circuits and to provide information on brain physiology and 
pathophysiology of various neuropsychiatric diseases as well as on the 
mechanisms of brain plasticity and of neuroactive drugs. TMS applied over 
nonmotor areas made it possible to extend research applications (often 
complementary with other functional neuroimaging techniques) in several fields 
of psychophysiology, causally testing brain-behavior relationships. Being able 
to induce relatively long-lasting excitability changes, repetitive TMS has made 
the treatment of neuropsychiatric diseases linked with brain excitability 
dysfunctions possible. These uses, however, warrant further large-scale studies. 
In emerging fields of research, TMS-EEG co-registration is considered a 
promising approach to evaluate corticocortical connectivity and brain reactivity 
with high temporal resolution. However, safety and ethical limitations of TMS 
technique need a high level of vigilance.

DOI: 10.1212/01.wnl.0000250268.13789.b2
PMID: 17296913 [Indexed for MEDLINE]