[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: cannabis cannabidiol therapeutic epilepsy pain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: cannabis cannabidiol therapeutic epilepsy pain]

8. Eur J Intern Med. 2018 Mar;49:12-19. doi: 10.1016/j.ejim.2018.01.004. Epub
2018  Jan 4.

Practical considerations in medical cannabis administration and dosing.

MacCallum CA(1), Russo EB(2).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Medicine, University of British Columbia, BC, Canada. Electronic 
address: info@drcarolinemaccallum.com.
(2)International Cannabis and Cannabinoids Institute, Prague, Czech Republic. 
Electronic address: ethan.russo@icci.science.

Cannabis has been employed medicinally throughout history, but its recent legal 
prohibition, biochemical complexity and variability, quality control issues, 
previous dearth of appropriately powered randomised controlled trials, and lack 
of pertinent education have conspired to leave clinicians in the dark as to how 
to advise patients pursuing such treatment. With the advent of pharmaceutical 
cannabis-based medicines (Sativex/nabiximols and Epidiolex), and liberalisation 
of access in certain nations, this ignorance of cannabis pharmacology and 
therapeutics has become untenable. In this article, the authors endeavour to 
present concise data on cannabis pharmacology related to tetrahydrocannabinol 
(THC), cannabidiol (CBD) et al., methods of administration (smoking, 
vaporisation, oral), and dosing recommendations. Adverse events of cannabis 
medicine pertain primarily to THC, whose total daily dose-equivalent should 
generally be limited to 30mg/day or less, preferably in conjunction with CBD, to 
avoid psychoactive sequelae and development of tolerance. CBD, in contrast to 
THC, is less potent, and may require much higher doses for its adjunctive 
benefits on pain, inflammation, and attenuation of THC-associated anxiety and 
tachycardia. Dose initiation should commence at modest levels, and titration of 
any cannabis preparation should be undertaken slowly over a period of as much as 
two weeks. Suggestions are offered on cannabis-drug interactions, patient 
monitoring, and standards of care, while special cases for cannabis therapeutics 
are addressed: epilepsy, cancer palliation and primary treatment, chronic pain, 
use in the elderly, Parkinson disease, paediatrics, with concomitant opioids, 
and in relation to driving and hazardous activities.

Copyright © 2018 European Federation of Internal Medicine. Published by Elsevier 
B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejim.2018.01.004
PMID: 29307505 [Indexed for MEDLINE]