[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: magnetic resonance spectroscopy metabolite brain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: magnetic resonance spectroscopy metabolite brain]

39. Molecules. 2025 Nov 6;30(21):4320. doi: 10.3390/molecules30214320.

Non-Invasive Regional Neurochemical Profiling of Zebrafish Brain Using Localized 
Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy at 28.2 T.

Singer R(1), Hu W(2), Liu L(2), de Groot HJM(1), Spaink HP(2), Alia A(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Leiden Institute of Chemistry, Leiden University, Einsteinweg 55, 2301 RA 
Leiden, The Netherlands.
(2)Institute of Biology, Leiden University, Einsteinweg 55, 2301 RA Leiden, The 
Netherlands.
(3)Institute of Medical Physics and Biophysics, Leipzig University, Härtelstr. 
16-18, D-04107 Leipzig, Germany.

Localized 1H magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) is a powerful tool in 
pre-clinical and clinical neurological research, offering non-invasive insight 
into neurochemical composition in localized brain regions. Zebrafish (Danio 
rerio) are increasingly being utilized as models in neurological disorder 
research, providing valuable insights into disease mechanisms. However, the 
small size of the zebrafish brain and limited MRS sensitivity at low magnetic 
fields hinder comprehensive neurochemical analysis of localized brain regions. 
Here, we investigate the potential of ultra-high-field (UHF) MR systems, 
particularly 28.2 T, for this purpose. This present study pioneers the 
application of localized 1H spectroscopy in zebrafish brain at 28.2 T. Point 
resolved spectroscopy (PRESS) sequence parameters were optimized to reduce the 
impact of chemical shift displacement error and to enable molecular level 
information from distinct brain regions. Optimized parameters included gradient 
strength, excitation frequency, echo time, and voxel volume specifically 
targeting the 0-4.5 ppm chemical shift regions. Exceptionally high-resolution 
cerebral metabolite spectra were successfully acquired from localized regions of 
the zebrafish brain in voxels as small as 125 nL, allowing for the 
identification and quantification of major brain metabolites with remarkable 
spectral clarity, including lactate, myo-inositol, creatine, alanine, glutamate, 
glutamine, choline (phosphocholine + glycerol-phospho-choline), taurine, 
aspartate, N-acetylaspartyl-glutamate (NAAG), N-acetylaspartate (NAA), and 
γ-aminobutyric acid (GABA). The unprecedented spatial resolution achieved in a 
small model organism enabled detailed comparisons of the neurochemical 
composition across distinct zebrafish brain regions, including the forebrain, 
midbrain, and hindbrain. This level of precision opens exciting new 
opportunities to investigate how specific diseases in zebrafish models influence 
the neurochemical composition of specific brain areas.

DOI: 10.3390/molecules30214320
PMCID: PMC12610310
PMID: 41226281 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.