[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: The Herbalist — Meyer | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# The Herbalist — Meyer — Overview

time, and a very different day, what do _you_ know of the gradual sinking beneath consumption, or the quick wasting of fever--the grand results of 'life' and dissipation--which men have undergone in these same rooms? How many vain pleaders for mercy, do you think, have turned away heart- sick from the lawyer's office, to find a resting-place in the Thames, or a refuge in the gaol? They are no ordinary houses, those. There
   is not a panel in the old wainscoting but what, if it were endowed
   with the powers of speech and memory, could start from the wall and
   tell its tale of horror--the romance of life, sir, the romance of
   life! Commonplace as they may seem now, I tell you they are strange
   old places, and I would rather hear many a legend with a
   terrific-sounding name than the true history of one old set of
   chambers."

   There was something so odd in the old man's sudden energy, and the
   subject which had called it forth, that Mr. Pickwick was prepared with
   no observation in reply; and the old man checking his impetuosity, and
   resuming the leer, which had disappeared during his previous
   excitement, said,--

   "Look at them in another light; their most common-place and least
   romantic. What fine places of slow torture they are! Think of the
   needy man who has spent his all, beggared himself and pinched his
   friends to enter the profession, which will never yield him a morsel
   of bread. The waiting--the hope--the disappointment--the fear--the
   misery--the poverty--the blight on his hopes and end to his career--the
   suicide, perhaps, or the shabby, slipshod drunkard. Am I not right
   about them?"  And the old man rubbed his hands, and leered as if in
   delight at having found another point of view in which to place his
   favourite subject. Mr. Pickwick eyed the old man with great curiosity, and the remainder
   of the company smiled, and looked on in silence. "Talk of your German universities," said the little old man. "Pooh! pooh! there's romance enough at home without going half a mile for it;
   only people never think of it.'"

   "I never thought of the romance of this particular subject before,
   certainly," said Mr. Pickwick, laughing. "To be sure you didn't," said the little old man, "of course not. As
   a friend of mine used to say to me, 'What is there in chambers in
   particular?'  'Queer old places,' said I. 'Not at all,' said he. 'Lonely,' said I. 'Not a bit of it,' said he. He died one morning of
   apoplexy, as he was going to open his outer door. Fell with his head
   in his own letter-box, and there he lay for eighteen months. Everybody
   thought he'd gone out of town. "And how was he found out at last?" inquired Mr. Pickwick. "The benchers determined to have his door broken open, as he hadn't
   paid any rent for two years. So they did. Forced the lock; and a
   very dusty skeleton in a blue coat, black knee-shorts, and silks, fell
   forward in the arms of the porter who opened the door. Queer, that. Rather, perhaps?"  The little old man put his head more on one side,
   and rubbed his hands with unspeakable glee. "I know another case," said the little old man, when his chuckles had
   in some degree subsided. "It occurred in Clifford's Inn. Tenant of a
   top set--bad character--shut himself up in his bedroom closet, and
   took a dose of arsenic. The steward thought he had run away; opened
   the door and put a bill up. Another man came, took the chambers,
   furnished them, and went to live there. Somehow or other he couldn't
   sleep--always restless and uncomfortable. 'Odd,' says he. 'I'll make
   the other room my bedchamber, and this my sitting-room.'  He made the
   change, and slept very well at night, but suddenly found that,
   somehow, he couldn't read in the evening; he got nervous and
   uncomfortable, and used to be always snuffing his candles and staring
   about him. 'I can't make this out,' said he, when he came home from
   the play one night, and was drinking a glass of cold grog, with his
   back to the wall, in order that he mightn't be able to fancy there was
   any one behind him--'I can't make it out,' said he; and just then his
   eyes rested on the little closet that had been always locked up, and a
   shudder ran through his whole frame from top to toe. 'I have felt
   this strange feeling before,' said he. 'I can't help thinking there's
   something wrong about that closet.'  He made a strong effort, plucked
   up his courage, shivered the lock with a blow or two of the poker,
   opened the door, and there, sure enough, standing bolt upright in the
   corner, was the last tenant, with a little bottle clasped firmly in
   his hand, and his face--well!"  As the little old man concluded he
   looked round on the attentive faces of his wondering auditory with a
   smile of grim delight. "What strange things these are you tell us of, sir," said Mr. Pickwick, minutely scanning the old man's countenance by the aid of
   his glasses.