[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: laser dermatology skin treatment tattoo hair | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: laser dermatology skin treatment tattoo hair]

15. J Eur Acad Dermatol Venereol. 2017 Jul;31(7):1096-1110. doi:
10.1111/jdv.14130.  Epub 2017 Feb 8.

Non-invasive anaesthetic methods for dermatological laser procedures: a 
systematic review.

Greveling K(1), Prens EP(1), Liu L(1), van Doorn MBA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, Erasmus MC University Medical Center Rotterdam, 
Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

Pain is a common side-effect of dermatological laser procedures. Non-invasive 
anaesthetic drugs and anaesthetic procedures can be used to provide pain relief 
and increase patient satisfaction and treatment efficacy. However, it remains 
unclear which method provides the best pain relief. The objective of this 
systematic review was therefore to assess the efficacy and safety of 
non-invasive anaesthetic methods during dermatological laser procedures. A 
systematic literature search was conducted. Randomized and non-randomized 
controlled clinical trials (RCTs and CCTs) were included. Two authors 
independently assessed study eligibility, extracted data and assessed the risk 
of bias. The quality of evidence was rated using Grading of Recommendations 
Assessment, Development and Evaluation (GRADE). Twenty RCTs and 12 CCTs were 
included, involving nine different laser indications: hair removal (n = 9), 
resurfacing/rejuvenation (n = 5), port wine stains (n = 8), leg telangiectasia 
(n = 3), facial telangiectasia (n = 2), tattoo removal (n = 2), naevus of Ota (n 
= 1), solar lentigines (n = 1) and HPV lesions (n = 1). The non-invasive 
anaesthetic methods (i.e. topical anaesthetic drugs, skin cooling, and pneumatic 
skin flattening [PSF]), types of lasers, laser settings, application time, and 
types of pain scales varied widely among the included studies. All of the 
studies had an unclear or high risk of bias, and the overall quality of evidence 
was rated as low. In general, active non-invasive anaesthetic methods seemed to 
provide favourable results compared to placebo or no anaesthesia, and topical 
anaesthetic drugs and PSF seemed to result in a better pain reduction than skin 
cooling. However, the current evidence is insufficient to provide 
recommendations for daily clinical practice. There is a need for more 
high-quality (head-to-head) RCTs. Future studies should also evaluate sex 
differences in pain perception, have uniformity with regard to validated pain 
measurement scales and address clinically significant differences in pain 
reduction besides statistically significant differences.

© 2017 European Academy of Dermatology and Venereology.

DOI: 10.1111/jdv.14130
PMID: 28107576 [Indexed for MEDLINE]