[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: cannabis cannabidiol therapeutic epilepsy pain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: cannabis cannabidiol therapeutic epilepsy pain]

17. Toxins (Basel). 2021 Feb 5;13(2):117. doi: 10.3390/toxins13020117.

Cannabis: A Toxin-Producing Plant with Potential Therapeutic Uses.

Breijyeh Z(1), Jubeh B(1), Bufo SA(2)(3), Karaman R(1)(2), Scrano L(4).

Author information:
(1)Pharmaceutical Sciences Department, Faculty of Pharmacy, Al-Quds University, 
Jerusalem Abu Dis P144, Palestine.
(2)Department of Sciences, University of Basilicata, 85100 Potenza, Italy.
(3)Department of Geography, Environmental Management & Energy Studies, 
University of Johannesburg, Johannesburg 2092, South Africa.
(4)Department of European Cultures (DICEM), University of Basilicata, 75100 
Matera, Italy.

For thousands of years, Cannabis sativa has been utilized as a medicine and for 
recreational and spiritual purposes. Phytocannabinoids are a family of compounds 
that are found in the cannabis plant, which is known for its psychotogenic and 
euphoric effects; the main psychotropic constituent of cannabis is 
Δ9-tetrahydrocannabinol (Δ9-THC). The pharmacological effects of cannabinoids 
are a result of interactions between those compounds and cannabinoid receptors, 
CB1 and CB2, located in many parts of the human body. Cannabis is used as a 
therapeutic agent for treating pain and emesis. Some cannabinoids are clinically 
applied for treating chronic pain, particularly cancer and multiple 
sclerosis-associated pain, for appetite stimulation and anti-emesis in HIV/AIDS 
and cancer patients, and for spasticity treatment in multiple sclerosis and 
epilepsy patients. Medical cannabis varies from recreational cannabis in the 
chemical content of THC and cannabidiol (CBD), modes of administration, and 
safety. Despite the therapeutic effects of cannabis, exposure to high 
concentrations of THC, the main compound that is responsible for most of the 
intoxicating effects experienced by users, could lead to psychological events 
and adverse effects that affect almost all body systems, such as neurological 
(dizziness, drowsiness, seizures, coma, and others), ophthalmological (mydriasis 
and conjunctival hyperemia), cardiovascular (tachycardia and arterial 
hypertension), and gastrointestinal (nausea, vomiting, and thirst), mainly 
associated with recreational use. Cannabis toxicity in children is more 
concerning and can cause serious adverse effects such as acute neurological 
symptoms (stupor), lethargy, seizures, and even coma. More countries are 
legalizing the commercial production and sale of cannabis for medicinal use, and 
some for recreational use as well. Liberalization of cannabis laws has led to 
increased incidence of toxicity, hyperemesis syndrome, lung disease 
cardiovascular disease, reduced fertility, tolerance, and dependence with 
chronic prolonged use. This review focuses on the potential therapeutic effects 
of cannabis and cannabinoids, as well as the acute and chronic toxic effects of 
cannabis use on various body systems.

DOI: 10.3390/toxins13020117
PMCID: PMC7915118
PMID: 33562446 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.