[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: MRI physics image quality artifact reduction | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: MRI physics image quality artifact reduction]

84. Neuroimage. 2011 Feb 1;54(3):1942-50. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2010.09.079. 
Epub 2010 Oct 13.

Reducing the gradient artefact in simultaneous EEG-fMRI by adjusting the 
subject's axial position.

Mullinger KJ(1), Yan WX, Bowtell R.

Author information:
(1)Sir Peter Mansfield Magnetic Resonance Centre, School of Physics and 
Astronomy, University of Nottingham, University Park, Nottingham, UK.

Large artefacts that compromise EEG data quality are generated when 
electroencephalography (EEG) and functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) 
are carried out concurrently. The gradient artefact produced by the time-varying 
magnetic field gradients is the largest of these artefacts. Although average 
artefact correction (AAS) and related techniques can remove the majority of this 
artefact, the need to avoid amplifier saturation necessitates the use of a large 
dynamic range and strong low-pass filtering in EEG recording. Any intrinsic 
reduction in the gradient artefact amplitude would allow data with a higher 
bandwidth to be acquired without amplifier saturation, thus increasing the 
frequency range of neuronal activity that can be investigated using combined 
EEG-fMRI. Furthermore, gradient artefact correction methods assume a constant 
artefact morphology over time, so their performance is compromised by subject 
movement. Since the resulting, residual gradient artefacts can easily swamp 
signals from brain activity, any reduction in their amplitude would be highly 
advantageous for simultaneous EEG-fMRI studies. The aim of this work was to 
investigate whether adjustment of the subject's axial position in the MRI 
scanner can reduce the amplitude of the induced gradient artefact, before and 
after artefact correction using AAS. The variation in gradient artefact 
amplitude as a function of the subject's axial position was first investigated 
in six subjects by applying gradient pulses along the three Cartesian axes. The 
results of this study showed that a significant reduction in the gradient 
artefact magnitude can be achieved by shifting the subject axially by 4 cm 
towards the feet relative to the standard subject position (nasion at 
iso-centre). In a further study, the 4-cm shift was shown to produce a 40% 
reduction in the RMS amplitude (and a 31% reduction in the range) of the 
gradient artefact generated during the execution of a standard multi-slice, EPI 
sequence. By picking out signals occurring at harmonics of the slice acquisition 
frequency, it was also shown that the 4-cm shift led to a 36% reduction in the 
residual gradient artefact after AAS. Functional and anatomical MR data quality 
is not affected by the 4-cm shift, as the head remains in the homogeneous region 
of the static magnet field and gradients.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2010.09.079
PMCID: PMC3095086
PMID: 20932913 [Indexed for MEDLINE]