[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: magnetic nanoparticle hyperthermia cancer therapy | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: magnetic nanoparticle hyperthermia cancer therapy]

16. Appl Radiat Isot. 2023 Aug;198:110873. doi: 10.1016/j.apradiso.2023.110873.
Epub  2023 May 26.

Evaluating the applications and effectiveness of magnetic nanoparticle-based 
hyperthermia for cancer treatment: A systematic review.

Farzanegan Z(1), Tahmasbi M(2).

Author information:
(1)Medical Physics and Radiotherapy Department, School of Allied Medical 
Sciences, Arak University of Medical Sciences, Arak, Iran. Electronic address: 
farzanegan.z97@gmail.com.
(2)Radiologic Technology Department, School of Allied Medical Sciences, Ahvaz 
Jundishapur University of Medical Sciences, Ahvaz, Iran.

Magnetic nanoparticle-based hyperthermia as a new cancer treatment technology 
has been applied for some kinds of tumors. To review the different applications 
and effectiveness of this new cancer treatment technique, PubMed, Science 
Direct, Web of Science, and Google Scholar databases were explored up to 
November 2022, using the following keywords combined in different ways: 
"Magnetic Nanoparticles Based Hyperthermia", "Magnetic Nanoparticles" AND 
"Hyperthermia" AND "Cancer". The obtained results were screened for the title 
and abstract and the relevant papers were reviewed for further details. Finally, 
24 papers were included in the study. These papers have evaluated the 
application of magnetic nanoparticle-based hyperthermia for treating different 
cancers including breast, liver, prostate, pancreas, colon, brain, lung, and 
stem cell. Various nanoparticles including Iron Oxide (Fe2O3, Fe3O4), Dextran 
Spermine, Iron Chloride, Magnetic nanoparticles conjugated with Liposomes 
(MCLs), and Variable Molecular Weight Nanoparticles (VMWNPs) were used in 
different reviewed studies. The results of reviewed studies revealed that the 
nanoparticle-based hyperthermia technique as a new progressive modality can 
significantly improve treatment outcomes for some special cancers. Increasing 
life expectancy by up to 30% using Iron Oxide magnetic nanoparticle-based 
hyperthermia for pancreatic cancer and increasing tumor ablation by about 33% 
for other cancers were reported in reviewed articles. However, further studies 
are required to extend this new treatment technique to other cancers and for 
providing more accurate information on nanoparticle-based hyperthermia's 
effectiveness as a complementary technique in cancer treatment.

Copyright © 2023 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.apradiso.2023.110873
PMID: 37257266 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest Authors don't 
have any conflict of interest.