[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: magnetic resonance spectroscopy metabolite brain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: magnetic resonance spectroscopy metabolite brain]

50. J Integr Neurosci. 2010 Dec;9(4):477-508. doi: 10.1142/s0219635210002524.

In vivo multiparametric magnetic resonance imaging and spectroscopy of rodent 
visual system.

Chan KC(1), Cheung MM, Wu EX.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Biomedical Imaging and Signal Processing, The University of 
Hong Kong, Pokfulam, Hong Kong SAR, China.

The integrity of the neuronal connections between eye and brain plays an 
important role in the performance of the mammalian visual system. However, the 
developmental and pathophysiological mechanisms in the visual system are largely 
unexplored due to the lack of a sensitive technique for directly assessing both 
anterior and posterior visual pathways longitudinally under the same 
experimental conditions. This paper reviewed the recent use of magnetic 
resonance imaging and spectroscopic (MRI/MRS) methods (contrast-enhanced MRI, 
diffusion MRI, proton MRS and functional MRI) at high magnetic field strengths, 
for in vivo and global assessments of the structure, metabolism and function of 
the visual system in normal, developing and injured rodent brains. Using animal 
models of ocular diseases, optic neuropathies, developmental plasticity and 
neonatal hypoxic-ischemic brain injury, focus is put on the feasibility of 
MRI/MRS to evaluate axonal transport and cellular activity along segregated 
fibers of the visual pathways, to characterize lesion-induced neurodegeneration 
in the retina and the optic nerve and tract, to detect steady-state metabolite 
changes in the posterior visual nuclei, and blood-ocular dynamic exchanges in 
the eye, and to understand the neurovascular coupling and functions in the 
retina and the visual brain nuclei. These studies suggested the significant 
values of high-field multiparametric MRI/MRS for providing early diagnoses and 
comprehensive therapeutic strategies for promoting functional recovery upon 
partial vision loss.

DOI: 10.1142/s0219635210002524
PMID: 21213415 [Indexed for MEDLINE]