[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: graphene biomedical applications toxicity review | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: graphene biomedical applications toxicity review]

18. ACS Omega. 2022 Sep 28;7(40):35387-35445. doi: 10.1021/acsomega.2c03171. 
eCollection 2022 Oct 11.

An Update on Graphene Oxide: Applications and Toxicity.

Yadav S(1), Singh Raman AP(1), Meena H(1)(2)(3), Goswami AG(1), Bhawna(1)(1)(4), 
Kumar V(4), Jain P(5), Kumar G(3)(6), Sagar M(3), Rana DK(7), Bahadur I(8), 
Singh P(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, Atma Ram Sanatan Dharma College, University of 
Delhi, Delhi, India.
(2)Department of Chemistry, Sri Venkateswara College, University of Delhi, 
Delhi, India.
(3)Department of Chemistry, University of Delhi, Delhi, India.
(4)Special Centre for Nanoscience, Jawaharlal Nehru University, Delhi, India.
(5)Department of Chemistry, Faculty of Engineering and Technology, SRM Institute 
of Science and Technology, NCR Campus, Uttar Pradesh, India.
(6)Swami Shraddhanand College, University of Delhi, Delhi, India.
(7)Department of Physics, Atma Ram Sanatan Dharma College, University of Delhi, 
Delhi, India.
(8)Department of Chemistry, Faculty of Natural and Agricultural Sciences, 
North-West University, Mmabatho, South Africa.

Graphene oxide (GO) has attracted much attention in the past few years because 
of its interesting and promising electrical, thermal, mechanical, and structural 
properties. These properties can be altered, as GO can be readily 
functionalized. Brodie synthesized the GO in 1859 by reacting graphite with 
KClO3 in the presence of fuming HNO3; the reaction took 3-4 days to complete at 
333 K. Since then, various schemes have been developed to reduce the reaction 
time, increase the yield, and minimize the release of toxic byproducts (NO2 and 
N2O4). The modified Hummers method has been widely accepted to produce GO in 
bulk. Due to its versatile characteristics, GO has a wide range of applications 
in different fields like tissue engineering, photocatalysis, catalysis, and 
biomedical applications. Its porous structure is considered appropriate for 
tissue and organ regeneration. Various branches of tissue engineering are being 
extensively explored, such as bone, neural, dentistry, cartilage, and skin 
tissue engineering. The band gap of GO can be easily tuned, and therefore it has 
a wide range of photocatalytic applications as well: the degradation of organic 
contaminants, hydrogen generation, and CO2 reduction, etc. GO could be a 
potential nanocarrier in drug delivery systems, gene delivery, biological 
sensing, and antibacterial nanocomposites due to its large surface area and high 
density, as it is highly functionalized with oxygen-containing functional 
groups. GO or its composites are found to be toxic to various biological species 
and as also discussed in this review. It has been observed that superoxide 
dismutase (SOD) and reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels gradually increase over 
a period after GO is introduced in the biological systems. Hence, GO at specific 
concentrations is toxic for various species like earthworms, Chironomus 
riparius, Zebrafish, etc.

© 2022 The Authors. Published by American Chemical Society.

DOI: 10.1021/acsomega.2c03171
PMCID: PMC9558614
PMID: 36249372

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing financial 
interest.