[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: Culpeper's Complete Herbal — Nicholas Culpeper | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Culpeper's Complete Herbal — Nicholas Culpeper — Overview

was alert and watchful. Long ago he had learned to be suspicious of rustling leaves. They might have been rustled by the feet of an enemy stealing up on him. No Wood Mouse who wants to live long is ever heedless of rustling leaves. As still as if he couldn't move, Whitefoot sat staring at the place from which that faint sound had seemed to come. For two or three minutes he heard
and saw nothing. Then another leaf rustled a little bit to one side. Whitefoot turned like a flash, his feet gathered under him ready for a
long jump for safety. At first he saw nothing. Then he became aware of two bright, soft little
eyes watching him. He stared at them very hard and then all over him
crept those funny thrills he had felt when he had first heard the
drumming of the stranger. He knew without being told that those eyes
belonged to the little drummer with whom he had been playing hide and
seek so long. Whitefoot held his breath, he was so afraid that those eyes would
vanish. Finally he rather timidly jumped down from the log and started
toward those two soft eyes. They vanished. Whitefoot's heart sank. He
was tempted to rush forward, but he didn't. He sat still. There was a
slight rustle off to the right. A little ray of moonlight made its way
down through the branches of the trees just there, and in the middle of
the light spot it made sat a timid little person. It seemed to Whitefoot
that he was looking at the most beautiful Wood Mouse in all the Great
World. Suddenly he felt very shy and timid himself. “Who--who--who are you?” he stammered. “I am little Miss Dainty,” replied the stranger bashfully. Right then and there Whitefoot's heart was filled so full of something
that it seemed as if it would burst. It was love. All in that instant he
knew that he had found the most wonderful thing in all the Great World,
which of course is love. He knew that he just couldn't live without
little Miss Dainty. CHAPTER XXVII: Mr. And Mrs. Whitefoot

   When all is said and all is done
   'Tis only love of two makes one. --Whitefoot. Little Miss Dainty, the most beautiful and wonderful Wood Mouse in all
the Great World, according to Whitefoot, was very shy and very timid. It
took Whitefoot a long time to make her believe that he really couldn't
live without her. At least, she pretended not to believe it. If the
truth were known, little Miss Dainty felt just the same way about
Whitefoot. But Whitefoot didn't know this, and I am afraid she teased
him a great deal before she told him that she loved him just as he loved
her. But at last little Miss Dainty shyly admitted that she loved Whitefoot
just as much as he loved her and was willing to become Mrs. Whitefoot. Secretly she thought Whitefoot the most wonderful Wood Mouse in the
Great World, but she didn't tell him so. The truth is, she made him feel
as if she were doing him a great favor. As for Whitefoot, he was so happy that he actually tried to sing. Yes,
sir, Whitefoot tried to sing, and he really did very well for a Mouse. He was ready and eager to do anything that Mrs. Whitefoot wanted to do. Together they scampered about in the moonlight, hunting for good things
to eat, and poking their inquisitive little noses into every little
place they could find. Whitefoot forgot that he had ever been sad and
lonely. He raced about and did all sorts of funny things from pure joy,
but he never once forgot to watch out for danger. In fact he was more
watchful than ever, for now he was watching for Mrs. Whitefoot as well
as for himself. At last Whitefoot rather timidly suggested that they should go see his
fine home in a certain hollow stub. Mrs. Whitefoot insisted that they
should go to her home. Whitefoot agreed on condition that she
would afterwards visit his home. So together they went back to Mrs. Whitefoot's home. Whitefoot pretended that he liked it very much, but
in his heart he thought his own home was very much better, and he felt
quite sure that Mrs. Whitefoot would agree with him once she had seen
it. But Mrs. Whitefoot was very well satisfied with her old home and not
at all anxious to leave it. It was in an old hollow stump close to the
ground. It was just such a place as Shadow the Weasel would be sure to
visit should he happen along that way. It didn't seem at all safe to
Whitefoot. In fact it worried him. Then, too, it was not in such a
pleasant place as was his own home. Of course he didn't say this, but
pretended to admire everything. Two days and nights they spent there. Then Whitefoot suggested that they
should visit his home. “Of course, my dear, we will not have to live
there unless you want to, but I want you to see it,” said he. Mrs. Whitefoot didn't appear at all anxious to go. She began to make
excuses for staying right where they were. You see, she had a great love
for that old home. They were sitting just outside the doorway talking
about the matter when Whitefoot caught a glimpse of a swiftly moving
form not far off.