[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: traditional Chinese medicine herbs mechanism actio | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: traditional Chinese medicine herbs mechanism action]

14. Int Rev Neurobiol. 2017;135:57-76. doi: 10.1016/bs.irn.2017.02.004. Epub 2017
 Mar 24.

Effect and Mechanism of Chinese Herbal Medicine on Parkinson's Disease.

Zeng BY(1).

Author information:
(1)Neurodegenerative Disease Research Group, Institute of Pharmaceutical 
Science, Faculty of Life Science & Medicine, King's College, London, United 
Kingdom. Electronic address: b.zeng@kcl.ac.uk.

Parkinson's disease is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder. Although both 
genetic and environmental factors are implicated in the development of 
Parkinson's disease, the cause of the disease is still unclear. So far 
conventional treatments to Parkinson's are symptomatic relief and focused mainly 
on motor symptoms. Chinese herbal medicine has been used to treat many 
conditions in China, Korea, Japan, and many Southeast Asian countries for 1000 
years. During past a few decades, Chinese herbal medicine has gained wider and 
increasing acceptance within both public and medical profession due to its 
effectiveness on many conditions in western countries. In this chapter, 
mechanisms of action of many Chinese herbal compounds/extracts and Chinese herb 
formulas on the models of Parkinson's were reviewed. Further, reports of 
effectiveness of Chinese herb formulas on patients with Parkinson's were 
summarized. It was shown that both Chinese herbal compounds/extracts and herb 
formulas have either specific target mechanisms of action or multitargets 
mechanisms of action, as antioxidant, antiinflammatory, and antiapoptosis 
agents. Clinical studies showed that Chinese herb formulas as an adjunct 
improved both motor and nonmotor symptoms, and reduced dose of dopaminergic 
drugs and occurrence of dyskinesia. The evidence from the studies suggests that 
Chinese herb medicine has potential, acting as neuroprotective to slow down the 
progression of Parkinson's, and it is able to simultaneously treat both motor 
and nonmotor symptoms of Parkinson's. More studies are needed to explore the new 
compounds/extracts derived from Chinese herbs, in particular, their mechanisms 
of action. It is hopeful that new drugs developed from Chinese herb 
compounds/extracts and Chinese herb formulas will lead to better and 
complimentary therapy to PD.

© 2017 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/bs.irn.2017.02.004
PMID: 28807165 [Indexed for MEDLINE]