[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: magnetic resonance spectroscopy metabolite brain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: magnetic resonance spectroscopy metabolite brain]

27. Comput Biol Med. 2023 May;158:106837. doi: 10.1016/j.compbiomed.2023.106837. 
Epub 2023 Apr 5.

Physics-informed deep learning approach to quantification of human brain 
metabolites from magnetic resonance spectroscopy data.

Shamaei A(1), Starcukova J(2), Starcuk Z Jr(2).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Scientific Instruments of the Czech Academy of Sciences, Brno, 
Czech Republic; Department of Biomedical Engineering, Brno University of 
Technology, Czech Republic. Electronic address: amirshamaei@isibrno.cz.
(2)Institute of Scientific Instruments of the Czech Academy of Sciences, Brno, 
Czech Republic.

PURPOSE: While the recommended analysis method for magnetic resonance 
spectroscopy data is linear combination model (LCM) fitting, the supervised deep 
learning (DL) approach for quantification of MR spectroscopy (MRS) and MR 
spectroscopic imaging (MRSI) data recently showed encouraging results; however, 
supervised learning requires ground truth fitted spectra, which is not 
practical. Moreover, this work investigates the feasibility and efficiency of 
the LCM-based self-supervised DL method for the analysis of MRS data.
METHOD: We present a novel DL-based method for the quantification of relative 
metabolite concentrations, using quantum-mechanics simulated metabolite 
responses and neural networks. We trained, validated, and evaluated the proposed 
networks with simulated and publicly accessible in-vivo human brain MRS data and 
compared the performance with traditional methods. A novel adaptive 
macromolecule fitting algorithm is included. We investigated the performance of 
the proposed methods in a Monte Carlo (MC) study.
RESULT: The validation using low-SNR simulated data demonstrated that the 
proposed methods could perform quantification comparably to other methods. The 
applicability of the proposed method for the quantification of in-vivo MRS data 
was demonstrated. Our proposed networks have the potential to reduce computation 
time significantly.
CONCLUSION: The proposed model-constrained deep neural networks trained in a 
self-supervised manner can offer fast and efficient quantification of MRS and 
MRSI data. Our proposed method has the potential to facilitate clinical practice 
by enabling faster processing of large datasets such as high-resolution MRSI 
datasets, which may have thousands of spectra.

Copyright © 2023 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.compbiomed.2023.106837
PMID: 37044049 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
have no conflict of interest to declare.