[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: crystal structure protein drug target binding | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: crystal structure protein drug target binding]

66. J Mol Graph Model. 2024 Jun;129:108734. doi: 10.1016/j.jmgm.2024.108734. Epub
 2024 Feb 28.

Target-specific novel molecules with their recipe: Incorporating 
synthesizability in the design process.

Krishnan SR(1), Bung N(1), Srinivasan R(1), Roy A(2).

Author information:
(1)TCS Research (Life Sciences Division), Tata Consultancy Services Limited, 
Hyderabad, 500081, India.
(2)TCS Research (Life Sciences Division), Tata Consultancy Services Limited, 
Hyderabad, 500081, India. Electronic address: roy.arijit3@tcs.com.

Application of Artificial intelligence (AI) in drug discovery has led to several 
success stories in recent times. While traditional methods mostly relied upon 
screening large chemical libraries for early-stage drug-design, de novo design 
can help identify novel target-specific molecules by sampling from a much larger 
chemical space. Although this has increased the possibility of finding diverse 
and novel molecules from previously unexplored chemical space, this has also 
posed a great challenge for medicinal chemists to synthesize at least some of 
the de novo designed novel molecules for experimental validation. To address 
this challenge, in this work, we propose a novel forward synthesis-based 
generative AI method, which is used to explore the synthesizable chemical space. 
The method uses a structure-based drug design framework, where the target 
protein structure and a target-specific seed fragment from co-crystal structures 
can be the initial inputs. A random fragment from a purchasable fragment library 
can also be the input if a target-specific fragment is unavailable. Then a 
template-based forward synthesis route prediction and molecule generation is 
performed in parallel using the Monte Carlo Tree Search (MCTS) method where, the 
subsequent fragments for molecule growth can again be obtained from a 
purchasable fragment library. The rewards for each iteration of MCTS are 
computed using a drug-target affinity (DTA) model based on the docking pose of 
the generated reaction intermediates at the binding site of the target protein 
of interest. With the help of the proposed method, it is now possible to 
overcome one of the major obstacles posed to the AI-based drug design approaches 
through the ability of the method to design novel target-specific synthesizable 
molecules.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jmgm.2024.108734
PMID: 38442440 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare the following financial interests/personal relationships which may be 
considered as potential competing interests: Arijit Roy reports a relationship 
with Tata Consultancy Services Ltd that includes: employment. Sowmya Ramaswamy 
Krishnan reports a relationship with Tata Consultancy Services Ltd that 
includes: employment. Navneet Bung reports a relationship with Tata Consultancy 
Services Ltd that includes: employment. Rajgopal Srinivasan reports a 
relationship with Tata Consultancy Services Ltd that includes: employment. 
Arijit Roy has patent pending to Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. Navneet Bung has 
patent pending to Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. Rajgopal Srinivasan has patent 
pending to Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. Sowmya Ramaswamy Krishnan has patent 
pending to Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. If there are other authors, they 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.