[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Complex Circuit Systems | Topic: PMOS logic | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# PMOS logic — Overview

By 1972, NMOS technology had finally been developed to the point where it could be used in commercial products. Both Intel (with the 2102) and IBM introduced 1 kbit memory chips. As the electron mobility in the n-type channel of NMOS MOSFETs is about three times that of the hole mobility in the p-type channel of PMOS MOSFETS, NMOS logic allows for an increased switching speed. For this reason NMOS logic quickly began to replace PMOS logic. By the late 1970s, NMOS microprocessors had overtaken PMOS processors. PMOS logic remained in use for a while due to its low cost and relatively high level of integration for applications such as simple calculators and clocks. CMOS technology promised a drastically lower power consumption than either PMOS or NMOS. Even though a CMOS circuit had been proposed already in 1963 by Frank Wanlass and commercial 4000 series CMOS integrated circuits had entered production in 1968, CMOS remained complex to manufacture and allowed neither the integration level of PMOS or NMOS nor the speed of NMOS. It would take until the 1980s for CMOS to replace NMOS as the main technology for microprocessors. Description
PMOS circuits have a number of disadvantages compared to the NMOS and CMOS alternatives, including the need for several different supply voltages (both positive and negative), high-power dissipation in the conducting state, and relatively large features. Also, the overall switching speed is lower. PMOS uses p-channel (+) metal-oxide-semiconductor field effect transistors (MOSFETs) to implement logic gates and other digital circuits. PMOS transistors operate by creating an inversion layer in an n-type transistor body. This inversion layer, called the p-channel, can conduct holes between p-type "source" and "drain" terminals. The p-channel is created by applying a negative voltage (-25V was common) to the third terminal, called the gate. Like other MOSFETs, PMOS transistors have four modes of operation: cut-off (or subthreshold), triode, saturation (sometimes called active), and velocity saturation. While PMOS logic is easy to design and manufacture (a MOSFET can be made to operate as a resistor, so the whole circuit can be made with PMOS FETs), it has several shortcomings as well. The worst problem is that there is a direct current (DC) through a PMOS logic gate when the so-called "pull-up network" (PUN) is active, that is, whenever the output is high, which leads to static power dissipation even when the circuit sits idle. Also, PMOS circuits are slow to transition from high to low. When transitioning from low to high, the transistors provide low resistance, and the capacitive charge at the output accumulates very quickly (similar to charging a capacitor through a very low resistance). But the resistance between the output and the negative supply rail is much greater, so the high-to-low transition takes longer (similar to discharge of a capacitor through a high resistance). Using a resistor of lower value will speed up the process but also increases static power dissipation. Additionally, the asymmetric input logic levels make PMOS circuits susceptible to noise. Most PMOS integrated circuits require a power supply of 17-24 volt DC. The Intel 4004 PMOS microprocessor, however, uses PMOS logic with polysilicon rather than metal gates allowing a smaller voltage differential. For compatibility with TTL signals, the 4004 uses positive supply voltage VSS=+5V and negative supply voltage VDD = -10V. Gates 

The p-type MOSFETs are arranged in a so-called "pull-up network" (PUN) between the logic gate output and positive supply voltage, while a resistor is placed between the logic gate output and the negative supply voltage. The circuit is designed such that if the desired output is high, then the PUN will be active, creating a current path between the positive supply and the output. PMOS gates have the same arrangement as NMOS gates if all the voltages are reversed. Thus, for active-high logic, De Morgan's laws show that a PMOS NOR gate has the same structure as an NMOS NAND gate and vice versa. References

Further reading 
 

Logic families
MOSFETs
Arab inventions
Egyptian inventions
South Korean inventions