[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: magnetic resonance spectroscopy metabolite brain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: magnetic resonance spectroscopy metabolite brain]

82. Schizophr Res. 2017 Sep;187:11-16. doi: 10.1016/j.schres.2017.02.024. Epub
2017  Mar 1.

Brain bioenergetics and redox state measured by (31)P magnetic resonance 
spectroscopy in unaffected siblings of patients with psychotic disorders.

Chouinard VA(1), Kim SY(2), Valeri L(3), Yuksel C(2), Ryan KP(4), Chouinard 
G(5), Cohen BM(2), Du F(2), Öngür D(2).

Author information:
(1)Psychotic Disorders Division, McLean Hospital, Belmont, MA, USA; Department 
of Psychiatry, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA. Electronic address: 
vchouinard@mclean.harvard.edu.
(2)Psychotic Disorders Division, McLean Hospital, Belmont, MA, USA; Department 
of Psychiatry, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA.
(3)Department of Psychiatry, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA; Laboratory 
for Psychiatric Biostatistics, McLean Hospital, Belmont, MA, USA.
(4)Psychotic Disorders Division, McLean Hospital, Belmont, MA, USA.
(5)Clinical Pharmacology Program, McGill University, Montreal, Quebec, Canada; 
Mental Health Institute of Montreal, University of Montreal, Montreal, Quebec, 
Canada.

BACKGROUND: Brain bioenergetic anomalies and redox dysregulation have been 
implicated in the pathophysiology of psychotic disorders. The present study 
examined brain energy-related metabolites and the balance between nicotinamide 
adenine dinucleotide metabolites (oxidized NAD+ and reduced NADH) using 
31P-magnetic resonance spectroscopy (31P-MRS) in unaffected siblings, compared 
to first episode psychosis (FEP) patients and healthy controls.
METHODS: 21 unaffected siblings, 32 FEP patients (including schizophrenia 
spectrum and affective psychoses), and 21 controls underwent 31P-MRS in the 
frontal lobe (6×6×4cm3) on a 4T MR scanner, using custom-designed dual-tuned 
surface coil with outer volume suppression. Brain parenchymal pH and 
steady-state metabolite ratios of high energy phosphate compounds were measured. 
NAD+ and NADH levels were determined using a 31P-MRS fitting algorithm. 13 
unaffected sibling-patient pairs were related; other patients and siblings were 
unrelated. ANCOVA analyses were used to examine 31P-MRS measures, with age and 
gender as covariates.
RESULTS: The phosphocreatine/adenosine triphosphate ratio was significantly 
reduced in both unaffected siblings and FEP patients, compared to controls. 
NAD+/NADH ratio was significantly reduced in patients compared to siblings and 
controls, with siblings showing a reduction in NAD+/NADH compared to controls 
that was not statistically significant. Compared to patients and controls, 
siblings showed significantly reduced levels of NAD+. Siblings did not differ 
from patients or controls on brain pH.
DISCUSSION: Our results indicate that unaffected siblings show some, but not all 
the same abnormalities in brain energy metabolites and redox state as FEP 
patients. Thus, 31P-MRS studies may identify factors related both to risk and 
expression of psychosis.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.schres.2017.02.024
PMCID: PMC5581291
PMID: 28258794 [Indexed for MEDLINE]