[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: Advanced Functional Materials | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Advanced Functional Materials — Overview

Advanced Functional Materials is a peer-reviewed scientific journal, published by Wiley-VCH. Established in February 2001, the journal began to publish monthly in 2002 and moved to 18/year in 2006,  biweekly in 2008, and weekly in 2013. It has been published under other titles since 1985. Scope
Coverage of this journal encompasses all topics pertaining to materials science. Topical coverage includes photovoltaics, organic electronics, carbon materials, nanotechnology, liquid crystals, magnetic materials, surfaces and interfaces, and biomaterials. Publishing formats include original research papers, feature articles and highlights. History
It was established in 2001 by Peter Gregory, the Editor of Advanced Materials, when the Wiley journal Advanced Materials for Optics and Electronics (starting in 1992) was discontinued; the volume numbering continued, however. Advanced Functional Materials is the sister journal to Advanced Materials and publishes full papers and feature articles on the development and applications of functional materials, including topics in chemistry, physics, nanotechnology, ceramics, metallurgy, and biomaterials. Frequent topics covered by the journal also include liquid crystals, semiconductors, superconductors, optics, lasers, sensors, porous materials, light-emitting materials, magnetic materials, thin films, and colloids. The current editor-in-chief is Joern Ritterbusch; David Flanagan was previously the editor-in-chief. Abstracting and indexing
Advanced Functional Materials is indexed in the following bibliographic databases:

Thomson Reuters Web of Science
CSA Illunina
Chemical Abstracts Service (ACS)
Compendex
FIZ Karlsruhe Databases
INSPEC
Polymer Library
SCOPUS (Elsevier)

See also
 Advanced Materials
 Advanced Engineering Materials
 Small
 Small Science
 Journal of Materials Chemistry
 Chemistry of Materials
 Nature Materials

References

External links
 Advanced Functional Materials
 (ISSN)

Chemistry journals
Materials science journals
Academic journals established in 2001
Wiley-Blackwell academic journals
Nanotechnology journals
Engineering journals