[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: MRI physics image quality artifact reduction | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: MRI physics image quality artifact reduction]

24. Comput Biol Med. 2025 May;189:109920. doi: 10.1016/j.compbiomed.2025.109920. 
Epub 2025 Mar 3.

Deep learning based image enhancement for dynamic non-Cartesian MRI: Application 
to "silent" fMRI.

Riemer F(1), Rusaas ME(2), Sandøy LB(2), Wiesinger F(3), Solana AB(3), Ersland 
L(4), Grüner R(2).

Author information:
(1)Mohn Medical Imaging and Visualization Centre (MMIV), Department of 
Radiology, Haukeland University Hospital, 5021, Bergen, Norway; Neuro-SysMed, 
Department of Neurology, Haukeland University Hospital, 5021, Bergen, Norway; 
Department of Physics and Technology, University of Bergen, 5007, Bergen, 
Norway. Electronic address: frank.riemer@helse-bergen.no.
(2)Department of Physics and Technology, University of Bergen, 5007, Bergen, 
Norway.
(3)GE HealthCare, Munich, Germany; Department of Neuroimaging, Institute of 
Psychiatry, Psychology & Neuroscience, King's College London, London, United 
Kingdom.
(4)Department of Biological and Medical Psychology, University of Bergen, 
Bergen, Norway; Department of Clinical Engineering, Haukeland University 
Hospital, Bergen, Norway.

Radial based non-Cartesian sequences may be used for silent functional MRI 
examinations particularly in settings where scanner noise could pose issues. 
However, to achieve reasonable temporal resolution, under-sampled 3D radial 
k-space commonly results in reduced image quality. In recent years, deep 
learning models for improving image quality have emerged. In this study, we 
investigate the applicability of deep learning image enhancement methods with a 
focus on preserving dynamic temporal signal changes. By utilizing 
high-resolution resting-state fMRI datasets from the Human Connectome Project 
(HCP) foundation, a ground-truth training set was constructed. The k-space 
trajectory coordinates of a so-called silent 'Looping Star' fMRI sequence was 
used to simulate non-Cartesian MRI data from the HCP datasets. Subsequently, 
these sparse resampled k-space were reconstructed, thereby generating pairs of 
simulated 'Looping Star' images and ground truth HCP images. The dataset served 
as the basis for training both 2D-UNet and 3D-UNet deep learning models for 
image enhancement. A comparative analysis was conducted, and the superior model 
was further fine-tuned. Evaluation of the final model's performance included 
standard image quality metrics as well as resting-state fMRI (rs-fMRI) analysis 
in the time-domain. The 3D-UNet outperformed the 2D-UNet in the image 
enhancement task, resulting in a significant reduction in error between the 
network input and the ground truth. Specifically, the 3D-UNet achieved a 97 % 
reduction in the mean square error between the simulated Looping Star input and 
the HCP ground truth in the pre-processed dataset. Moreover, the 3D-UNet 
successfully preserved voxel variations, observed as the correlated activity in 
the posterior cingulate cortex (PCC) during rs-fMRI analysis while 
simultaneously mitigating noise in the time-series images. In summary, image 
quality was improved and artifacts were effectively eliminated through the 
application of both 2D and 3D deep learning approaches. Comparative analysis of 
the networks indicated that the use of 3D convolutions is more advantageous than 
employing a deeper network with 2D convolutions, particularly in scenarios 
involving global artifacts. Furthermore by demonstrating that the trained neural 
network successfully preserved temporal characteristics in the BOLD signals, the 
results suggest applicability in fMRI studies.

Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.compbiomed.2025.109920
PMID: 40037172 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare the following financial interests/personal relationships which may be 
considered as potential competing interests: Renate Gruner reports a 
relationship with NordicNeuroLab that includes: equity or stocks. Lars Ersland 
reports a relationship with NordicNeuroLab that includes: equity or stocks. 
Florian Wiesinger reports a relationship with GE HealthCare that includes: 
employment. Ana Beatriz Solana reports a relationship with GE HealthCare that 
includes: employment. If there are other authors, they declare that they have no 
known competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have 
appeared to influence the work reported in this paper.