[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: laser surgery LASIK corneal refractive outcome | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: laser surgery LASIK corneal refractive outcome]

34. J Refract Surg. 2003 Mar-Apr;19(2):94-103. doi:
10.3928/1081-597X-20030301-03.

First clinical results with the femtosecond neodynium-glass laser in refractive 
surgery.

Ratkay-Traub I(1), Ferincz IE, Juhasz T, Kurtz RM, Krueger RR.

Author information:
(1)Focus Medical Eye Micro-surgery and Laser Center, Budapest, Hungary. 
traubfri@axelero.hu

PURPOSE: We evaluated four femtosecond laser intrastromal cutting procedures: 
creation of a corneal flap for laser in situ keratomileusis (LASIK), tunnel and 
entry cut for intracorneal ring, corneal flap and removable lens for 
keratomileusis, and intrastromal ablation for myopia and hyperopia.
METHODS: A clinical trial using a femtosecond surgical laser (IntraLase 
Corporation) was performed in partially sighted eyes. Femto-LASIK treatment was 
performed on 46 eyes up to -14.00 D; 16 patients received intracorneal ring 
segments (Femto-ICRS); 5 patients each with one highly myopic eye had 
femtosecond laser keratomileusis (FLK), and 13 patients each with one myopic or 
hyperopic eye had intrastromal ablation (ISPRK). In Femto-LASIK, excimer laser 
ablation was done under the flap. In Femto-ICRS, ring segments were introduced 
into the laser-created channels. In femtosecond laser keratomileusis, a 
lens-shaped block of stroma was removed manually from under the flap.
RESULTS: No difference was found between the results obtained with Femto-LASIK 
and a standard microkeratome. No refractive effects occurred when the created 
flap was not elevated. In cases of Femto-ICRS and conventional ICRS produced the 
same refractive results. With Femto-ICRS, no intraoperative complications 
occurred and visual acuity improved immediately after surgery. In femtosecond 
laser keratomileusis, high myopia was corrected without using excimer laser 
ablation; centralization of the treatment area was excellent. In intrastromal 
ablation, 1 to 2 hours after surgery the corneas were highly transparent; 
refractive results were stable.
CONCLUSIONS: Femtosecond lasers can produce precise intrastromal cutting, 
offering significant safety and other advantages (no razor blades, corneal 
trauma, partial resections, or sterilization issues) over current techniques.

DOI: 10.3928/1081-597X-20030301-03
PMID: 12701713 [Indexed for MEDLINE]