[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: cannabis cannabidiol therapeutic epilepsy pain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: cannabis cannabidiol therapeutic epilepsy pain]

70. Pharmaceuticals (Basel). 2012 May 21;5(5):529-52. doi: 10.3390/ph5050529.

Cannabidiol in humans-the quest for therapeutic targets.

Zhornitsky S(1), Potvin S.

Author information:
(1)Multiple Sclerosis Clinic, Foothills Medical Centre, Department of Clinical 
Neurosciences, Faculty of Medicine, University of Calgary, Calgary, Alberta T2N 
1N4, Canada. stephane.potvin@umontreal.ca.

Cannabidiol (CBD), a major phytocannabinoid constituent of cannabis, is 
attracting growing attention in medicine for its anxiolytic, antipsychotic, 
antiemetic and anti-inflammatory properties. However, up to this point, a 
comprehensive literature review of the effects of CBD in humans is lacking. The 
aim of the present systematic review is to examine the randomized and crossover 
studies that administered CBD to healthy controls and to clinical patients. A 
systematic search was performed in the electronic databases PubMed and EMBASE 
using the key word "cannabidiol". Both monotherapy and combination studies 
(e.g., CBD + ∆9-THC) were included. A total of 34 studies were identified: 16 of 
these were experimental studies, conducted in healthy subjects, and 18 were 
conducted in clinical populations, including multiple sclerosis (six studies), 
schizophrenia and bipolar mania (four studies), social anxiety disorder (two 
studies), neuropathic and cancer pain (two studies), cancer anorexia (one 
study), Huntington's disease (one study), insomnia (one study), and epilepsy 
(one study). Experimental studies indicate that a high-dose of 
inhaled/intravenous CBD is required to inhibit the effects of a lower dose of 
∆9-THC. Moreover, some experimental and clinical studies suggest that 
oral/oromucosal CBD may prolong and/or intensify ∆9-THC-induced effects, whereas 
others suggest that it may inhibit ∆9-THC-induced effects. Finally, preliminary 
clinical trials suggest that high-dose oral CBD (150-600 mg/d) may exert a 
therapeutic effect for social anxiety disorder, insomnia and epilepsy, but also 
that it may cause mental sedation. Potential pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic 
explanations for these results are discussed.

DOI: 10.3390/ph5050529
PMCID: PMC3763649
PMID: 24281562