[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: traditional Chinese medicine herbs mechanism actio | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: traditional Chinese medicine herbs mechanism action]

13. Phytomedicine. 2024 Jul;129:155575. doi: 10.1016/j.phymed.2024.155575. Epub
2024  Apr 4.

Antidiabetic action of the Chinese formula Shouhuitongbian and the underlying 
mechanism associated with alteration of gut microbiota.

Wang T(1), Liao H(1), Lin J(1), Zhang M(2), Chen B(1), Yin R(1), Sun J(3), Dai 
H(1), Liu H(4).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Mycology, Institute of Microbiology, Chinese Academy 
of Sciences, No. 1 Beichenxi Road, Chaoyang District, Beijing, 100101, PR China; 
Savaid Medical School, University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, 
100049, PR China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Mycology, Institute of Microbiology, Chinese Academy 
of Sciences, No. 1 Beichenxi Road, Chaoyang District, Beijing, 100101, PR China; 
Key Laboratory of Structure-Based Drug Design & Discovery of Education, College 
of Traditional Chinese Materia Medica, Shenyang Pharmaceutical University, 
Shenyang, 110016, China.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Mycology, Institute of Microbiology, Chinese Academy 
of Sciences, No. 1 Beichenxi Road, Chaoyang District, Beijing, 100101, PR China.
(4)State Key Laboratory of Mycology, Institute of Microbiology, Chinese Academy 
of Sciences, No. 1 Beichenxi Road, Chaoyang District, Beijing, 100101, PR China; 
Savaid Medical School, University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, 
100049, PR China. Electronic address: liuhw@im.ac.cn.

BACKGROUND: The prevalence and incidence of type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) have 
dramatically increased. The intestinal flora and its derived metabolites are 
demonstrated to play vital roles in the etiology and onset of T2DM. 
Shouhuitongbian (SHTB) is a traditional Chinese formula to treat constipation. 
SHTB is composed of seven herbs and components of Colla corii asini (CCA) that 
are obtained from the hide of Equus asinus L.. Some of herbs in SHTB such as 
Aloe vera (L.) Burm.f., Cassia obtusifolia L., fruits of Lycium barbarum L., and 
Citrus aurantium L. have shown to improve insulin resistance (IR) and T2DM in 
early reports. We hypothesized that SHTB composed of these herbs has 
antidiabetic effects. The antidiabetic efficacy and mechanism of action of SHTB 
have not been previously reported.
HYPOTHESIS/PURPOSE: To demonstrate the antidiabetic effect and elucidate the 
underlying mechanisms of SHTB from the perspective of gut microbiota.
STUDY DESIGN: The main compounds were identified and quantified by 
high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC)-mass spectrometry analysis. High 
fat diet (HFD)-fed mice and db/db mice were used to assess the antidiabetic 
effects and the mechanism of SHTB. The underlying mechanisms were evaluated by 
enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), western blot analysis, quantitative 
real time polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) analysis, 16S rRNA high-throughput 
sequencing, and targeted metabolome analysis.
METHODS: HFD-fed mice and db/db mice were orally treated with the standard 
positive drug metformin (100 mg/kg/d) and with SHTB (200 and 100 mg/kg/d), which 
was chemically characterized according to the European Medicine Agency (EMA) 
guidelines. The beneficial effects of SHTB were studied by homeostasis model 
assessment of insulin resistance (HOMA-IR) index, oral glucose tolerance test 
(OGTT), insulin tolerance test (ITT), total cholesterol (T-CHO), triglyceride 
(TG), and inflammation. Subsequently, 16S rDNA-based high-throughput 
pyrosequencing and GC-MS-based targeted metabolomics profiling were performed to 
analyze the gut microbiota composition and metabolites profile in the gut, 
respectively. Moreover, the mammalian target of rapamycin complex 1 (mTORC1) / 
insulin receptor substrate 1 (IRS-1) / phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K) / 
protein kinase B (AKT) pathway was evaluated via qPCR and western blot.
RESULTS: Chemically characterized SHTB, in which six markers were quantified, 
effectively alleviated glucose intolerance and IR, ameliorated lipid metabolism 
dysfunction, and reduced inflammation. In addition, 16S rDNA sequencing found 
that SHTB reshaped the composition of intestinal flora, as indicated by the 
enrichment of Akkermansia and Parabacteroides in both HFD-fed and db/db mice. 
Moreover, SHTB enhanced the intestinal production of short-chain fatty acids 
(SCFAs) and branched short-chain fatty acids (BSCFAs), and reduced the levels of 
the fecal and circulating branched-chain amino acids (BCAAs). The IRS-1/PI3K/AKT 
signaling pathway was upregulated after treatment with SHTB.
CONCLUSION: Orally administration of SHTB effectively improved IR and reduced 
hyperglycemia in mice. Treatment with SHTB regulated the gut 
BCAAs-mTORC1/IRS-1/PI3K/AKT axis by enhancing the BCAAs catabolism in the gut, 
which attenuated the deleterious effect of BCAAs on the IRS-1 signaling pathway.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.phymed.2024.155575
PMID: 38636179 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.