[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: Green Synthesis of Gold Nanoparticles Using Plant Extracts a | Type: OpenAlex-OA | Level: Graduate]

[OpenAlex | Materials Science | Year: 2021 | Citations: 256]

Title: Green Synthesis of Gold Nanoparticles Using Plant Extracts as Beneficial Prospect for Cancer Theranostics

Abstract:
Gold nanoparticles (AuNPs) have been widely explored and are well-known for their medical applications. Chemical and physical synthesis methods are a way to make AuNPs. In any case, the hunt for other more ecologically friendly and cost-effective large-scale technologies, such as environmentally friendly biological processes known as green synthesis, has been gaining interest by worldwide researchers. The international focus on green nanotechnology research has resulted in various nanomaterials being used in environmentally and physiologically acceptable applications. Several advantages over conventional physical and chemical synthesis (simple, one-step approach to synthesize, cost-effectiveness, energy efficiency, and biocompatibility) have drawn scientists' attention to exploring the green synthesis of AuNPs by exploiting plants' secondary metabolites. Biogenic approaches, mainly the plant-based synthesis of metal nanoparticles, have been chosen as the ideal strategy due to their environmental and in vivo safety, as well as their ease of synthesis. In this review, we reviewed the use of green synthesized AuNPs in the treatment of cancer by utilizing phytochemicals found in plant extracts. This article reviews plant-based methods for producing AuNPs, characterization methods of synthesized AuNPs, and discusses their physiochemical properties. This study also discusses recent breakthroughs and achievements in using green synthesized AuNPs in cancer treatment and different mechanisms of action, such as reactive oxygen species (ROS), mediated mitochondrial dysfunction and caspase activation, leading to apoptosis, etc., for their anticancer and cytotoxic effects. Understanding the mechanisms underlying AuNPs therapeutic efficacy will aid in developing personalized medicines and treatments for cancer as a potential cancer therapeutic strategy.