[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: cannabis cannabidiol therapeutic epilepsy pain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: cannabis cannabidiol therapeutic epilepsy pain]

69. Front Integr Neurosci. 2018 Oct 18;12:51. doi: 10.3389/fnint.2018.00051. 
eCollection 2018.

Cannabis Therapeutics and the Future of Neurology.

Russo EB(1).

Author information:
(1)International Cannabis and Cannabinoids Institute (ICCI), Prague, Czechia.

Neurological therapeutics have been hampered by its inability to advance beyond 
symptomatic treatment of neurodegenerative disorders into the realm of actual 
palliation, arrest or reversal of the attendant pathological processes. While 
cannabis-based medicines have demonstrated safety, efficacy and consistency 
sufficient for regulatory approval in spasticity in multiple sclerosis (MS), and 
in Dravet and Lennox-Gastaut Syndromes (LGS), many therapeutic challenges 
remain. This review will examine the intriguing promise that recent discoveries 
regarding cannabis-based medicines offer to neurological therapeutics by 
incorporating the neutral phytocannabinoids tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), 
cannabidiol (CBD), their acidic precursors, tetrahydrocannabinolic acid (THCA) 
and cannabidiolic acid (CBDA), and cannabis terpenoids in the putative treatment 
of five syndromes, currently labeled recalcitrant to therapeutic success, and 
wherein improved pharmacological intervention is required: intractable epilepsy, 
brain tumors, Parkinson disease (PD), Alzheimer disease (AD) and traumatic brain 
injury (TBI)/chronic traumatic encephalopathy (CTE). Current basic science and 
clinical investigations support the safety and efficacy of such interventions in 
treatment of these currently intractable conditions, that in some cases share 
pathological processes, and the plausibility of interventions that harness 
endocannabinoid mechanisms, whether mediated via direct activity on CB1 and CB2 
(tetrahydrocannabinol, THC, caryophyllene), peroxisome proliferator-activated 
receptor-gamma (PPARγ; THCA), 5-HT1A (CBD, CBDA) or even nutritional approaches 
utilizing prebiotics and probiotics. The inherent polypharmaceutical properties 
of cannabis botanicals offer distinct advantages over the current single-target 
pharmaceutical model and portend to revolutionize neurological treatment into a 
new reality of effective interventional and even preventative treatment.

DOI: 10.3389/fnint.2018.00051
PMCID: PMC6200872
PMID: 30405366