[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Propulsion Mechanics | Topic: Scramjet programs | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Scramjet programs — Overview

Cancelled ? - Adaptive flight control of an hypersonic vehicle HIFiRE 7 March 30, 2015 - Free flight of an hydrocarbon fueled scramjet with REST inlet HIFiRE 8 Cancelled ? - Sustained flight of an hypersonic vehicle integrating an hydrocarbon fueled scramjet with REST inlet In 2012 the HIFiRE program was recognized with the prestigious von Karman Award by the International Congress of the Aeronautical Sciences. Brazil 
The 14-X is a Brazilian hypersonic aircraft, named in tribute to the 14-bis of Alberto Santos-Dumont. This aircraft is equipped with a scramjet engine, which is integrated into the fuselage and has no moving parts. The operating principle is that, during flight, the air is compressed by the geometry and speed of the vehicle and directed to the engine at the bottom of the aircraft. Hydrogen is used as the fuel. The vehicle utilize the “Waverider” concept and made the first test flight of engine in December 2021 in 'Operação Cruzeiro' and on its flight, the engine accelerated to a speed greater than Mach 6 at an altitude of more than 30 km and followed the planned trajectory, reaching its apogee at 160 km. China 
In August 2015, it was reported that a Chinese researcher had been awarded for the successful development and test flight of a new scramjet engine, the first of its kind in China. This would make China the fourth country in the world, after Australia (2002), Russia and the United States, to have successfully test flown a scramjet. It was later revealed that the first flight of a Waverider-like scramjet-powered vehicle occurred in 2011, with flight tests completed by 2014. A new near-hypersonic drone, with a variable-cycle turbo-ramjet engine, has also been flown. It is reportedly the fastest air-breathing recoverable vehicle in the world. France 
Several scramjet designs are now under investigation. One of these options or a combination of them will be selected by ONERA, the French aerospace research agency, with the EADS conglomerate providing technical backup. The notional immediate goal of the study is to produce a hypersonic air-to-surface missile named "Promethee", which would be about 6 meters (20 ft) long and weigh 1,700 kilograms (3,750 lb). ASN4G (Air-Sol Nucléaire de 4e Génération) , will be an air-launched scramjet-powered hypersonic cruise missile and replace ASMP-A. Germany 
The Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft has founded Research Training Group 1095 . Research purposes are the aero-thermodynamic design and development of a scramjet demonstrator. There is no official name for the demonstrator yet. The project includes basic research to gain a better understanding of supersonic fuel mixing and combustion, aerodynamic effects, material sciences and issues in system design. The project involves the University of Stuttgart, Technical University of Munich, RWTH Aachen and the German Aerospace Center. India 
 Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) designed and ground-tested a scramjet in 2005. A press release stated that stable supersonic combustion was demonstrated in ground testing for nearly seven seconds with an inlet Mach number of six. In 2010, a flight test  of Advanced Technology Vehicle (ATV-D01) with a passive scramjet engine combustor module was conducted. It was a suborbital ballistic trajectory based experiment using a two-stage RH-560 sounding rocket. The HSTDV is a technology demonstrator under development by the DRDO. It has been ground-tested at hypersonic speeds for 20 seconds. On August 28, 2016, ISRO successfully flight tested the Scramjet engine in Advanced Technology Vehicle (ATV-D02). It is the second scramjet flight test of VSSC-ISRO. On June 12, 2019, India conducted the maiden flight test of its indigenously developed unmanned scramjet demonstration aircraft for hypersonic speed flight from a base from Abdul Kalam Island in the Bay of Bengal at about 11.25 am. The aircraft is called the Hypersonic Technology Demonstrator Vehicle. The trial was carried out by the Defence Research and Development Organisation. The aircraft forms an important component of the country's programme for development of a Hypersonic Cruise missile system. ISRO is also planning to perform a (SPEX) Scramjet Propulsion Experiment for their RLV-TD programme which is focused on reusability of launch vehicle. ISRO has already performed maiden testing of the vehicle on 23 May 2016. Russia 
The first working scramjet in the world "GLL Kholod" flew on 28 November 1991, reaching a speed of Mach 5.8. However, the collapse of the Soviet Union stopped the funding of the project. After NASA's NASP program was cut, American scientists began to look at adopting available Russian technology as a less expensive alternative to developing hypersonic flight. On November 17, 1992, Russian scientists with some additional French support successfully launched a scramjet engine named "Kholod" in Kazakhstan. From 1994 to 1998 NASA worked with the Russian Central Institute of Aviation Motors (CIAM) to test a dual-mode scramjet engine and transfer technology and experience to the West.