[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: biomaterial implant osseointegration titanium clin | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: biomaterial implant osseointegration titanium clinical]

36. Int J Oral Maxillofac Implants. 2012 Mar-Apr;27(2):401-10.

Porous titanium granules in the surgical treatment of peri-implant osseous 
defects: a randomized clinical trial.

Wohlfahrt JC(1), Lyngstadaas SP, Rønold HJ, Saxegaard E, Ellingsen JE, Karlsson 
S, Aass AM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomaterials, University of Oslo, Oslo, Norway. 
johancw@odont.uio.no

PURPOSE: Porous titanium granules (PTG) may have potential as an osteoconductive 
bone graft substitute to treat peri-implant osseous defects. The aim of this 
study was to analyze clinical and radiographic outcomes of peri-implant osseous 
defects after treatment with PTG.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: This prospective, randomized, case-control, clinical 
12-month study compared open-flap debridement and surface decontamination with 
titanium curettes and 24% ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid gel (n = 16) to the 
same protocol but with the addition of PTG (n = 16). One-, two-, and three-wall 
infrabony defects were included. Patients were given amoxicillin and 
metronidazole 3 days before surgery and for 7 days afterwards. Implants were 
submerged and allowed to heal for 6 months. Probing pocket depths, bleeding on 
probing, implant stability using resonance frequency analysis, and radiographic 
evaluation were performed at baseline and at 12 months. The threshold for 
significance was set at .05.
RESULTS: Change in radiographic defect height and percent fill of the 
peri-implant osseous defect significantly favored patients treated with PTG. 
Both treatment modalities demonstrated significant improvements in probing 
pocket depth, but significant differences between groups were not observed. The 
PTG-treated implants showed an increase in implant stability quotient (ISQ) of 
1.6 units, compared with a decrease of 0.7 ISQ for the control group. No adverse 
effects were associated with PTG treatment.
CONCLUSIONS: Reconstruction with PTG resulted in significantly better 
radiographic peri-implant defect fill compared with controls; however, the 
results do not necessarily imply reosseointegration or osseointegration of PTG 
particles. Improvements in clinical parameters were seen in both groups, but no 
differences between groups were demonstrated.

PMID: 22442781 [Indexed for MEDLINE]