[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: natural product antibiotic drug discovery | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: natural product antibiotic drug discovery]

5. Nature. 2024 Aug;632(8023):39-49. doi: 10.1038/s41586-024-07530-w. Epub 2024
Jul  31.

Sophisticated natural products as antibiotics.

Lewis K(1), Lee RE(2), Brötz-Oesterhelt H(3)(4), Hiller S(5), Rodnina MV(6), 
Schneider T(7)(8), Weingarth M(9), Wohlgemuth I(6).

Author information:
(1)Antimicrobial Discovery Center, Northeastern University, Boston, MA, USA. 
k.lewis@northeastern.edu.
(2)Department of Chemical Biology and Therapeutics, St Jude Children's Research 
Hospital, Memphis, TN, USA. richard.lee@stjude.org.
(3)Interfaculty Institute of Microbiology and Infection Medicine, Tubingen, 
Germany.
(4)Controlling Microbes to Fight Infection-Cluster of Excellence, Tubingen, 
Germany.
(5)Biozentrum, University of Basel, Basel, Switzerland.
(6)Max Planck Institute for Multidisciplinary Sciences, Goettingen, Germany.
(7)Institute for Pharmaceutical Microbiology, University of Bonn, University 
Hospital Bonn, Bonn, Germany.
(8)German Center for Infection Research (DZIF), Partner Site Cologne-Bonn, Bonn, 
Germany.
(9)Chemistry Department, Utrecht University, Utrecht, the Netherlands.

In this Review, we explore natural product antibiotics that do more than simply 
inhibit an active site of an essential enzyme. We review these compounds to 
provide inspiration for the design of much-needed new antibacterial agents, and 
examine the complex mechanisms that have evolved to effectively target bacteria, 
including covalent binders, inhibitors of resistance, compounds that utilize 
self-promoted entry, those that evade resistance, prodrugs, target corrupters, 
inhibitors of 'undruggable' targets, compounds that form supramolecular 
complexes, and selective membrane-acting agents. These are exemplified by 
β-lactams that bind covalently to inhibit transpeptidases and β-lactamases, 
siderophore chimeras that hijack import mechanisms to smuggle antibiotics into 
the cell, compounds that are activated by bacterial enzymes to produce reactive 
molecules, and antibiotics such as aminoglycosides that corrupt, rather than 
merely inhibit, their targets. Some of these mechanisms are highly 
sophisticated, such as the preformed β-strands of darobactins that target the 
undruggable β-barrel chaperone BamA, or teixobactin, which binds to a precursor 
of peptidoglycan and then forms a supramolecular structure that damages the 
membrane, impeding the emergence of resistance. Many of the compounds exhibit 
more than one notable feature, such as resistance evasion and target corruption. 
Understanding the surprising complexity of the best antimicrobial compounds 
provides a roadmap for developing novel compounds to address the antimicrobial 
resistance crisis by mining for new natural products and inspiring us to design 
similarly sophisticated antibiotics.

© 2024. Springer Nature Limited.

DOI: 10.1038/s41586-024-07530-w
PMCID: PMC11573432
PMID: 39085542 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interest Statement: KL is a consultant 
for NovoBiotic, Arietis, Odyssey Therapeutics, Holobiome, and Flightpath. RL is 
an advisor for Prokaryotics Inc. and is a co-inventor of relevant intellectual 
property licensed by Arietis Inc. and Microbiotix. HBO, SH, MR, TS, MW, IW 
declare no competing interests