[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Complex Circuit Systems | Topic: Fully differential amplifier | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Fully differential amplifier — Overview

specified in volts per microsecond. When slewing occurs, further increases in the input signal have no effect on the rate of change of the output. Slewing is usually caused by internal capacitances in the amplifier, especially those used to implement its frequency compensation, particularly using pole splitting. Non-linear transfer function — The output voltage may not be accurately proportional to the difference between the input voltages. It is commonly called distortion when the input signal is a waveform. This effect will be very small in a practical circuit if substantial negative feedback is used. Power considerations
 Limited output power — if high power output is desired, an op-amp specifically designed for that purpose must be used. Most op-amps are designed for low-power operation and are typically only able to drive output resistances down to 2 kΩ. Limited output current — the output current must obviously be finite. In practice, most op-amps are designed to limit the output current to not exceed a specified level, thus protecting the FDA and associated circuitry from damage. DC behavior 
Open-loop gain is defined as the amplification from input to output without any feedback applied. For most practical calculations, the open-loop gain is assumed to be infinite; in reality, it is obviously not. Typical devices exhibit open-loop DC gain ranging from 100,000 to over 1 million; this is sufficiently large for circuit gain to be determined almost entirely by the amount of negative feedback used. Op-amps have performance limits that the designer must keep in mind and sometimes workaround. In particular, instability is possible in a DC amplifier if AC aspects are neglected. AC behavior 
The FDA gain calculated at DC does not apply at higher frequencies. To a first approximation, the gain of a typical FDA is inversely proportional to frequency. This means that an FDA is characterized by its gain-bandwidth product. For example, an FDA with a gain bandwidth product of 1 MHz would have a gain of 5 at 200 kHz, and a gain of 1 at 1 MHz. This low-pass characteristic is introduced deliberately because it tends to stabilize the circuit by introducing a dominant pole. This is known as frequency compensation. A typical low-cost general-purpose FDA will have a gain-bandwidth product of a few megahertz. Specialty and high-speed FDAs can achieve gain-bandwidth products of hundreds of megahertz. Some FDAs are even capable of gain-bandwidth products greater than a gigahertz. See also 
 Active filter
 Analog computer
 Current-feedback operational amplifier
 Instrumentation amplifier
 Operational amplifier applications
 Operational transconductance amplifier

References

External links 

 Differential Amplifiers (TI Application Report)
 Fully Differential Amplifiers (TI Analog Applications Journal)

Electronic amplifiers
Integrated circuits