[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: biomaterial implant osseointegration titanium clin | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: biomaterial implant osseointegration titanium clinical]

1. Periodontol 2000. 2019 Feb;79(1):178-189. doi: 10.1111/prd.12254.

Research on implants and osseointegration.

Guglielmotti MB(1)(2), Olmedo DG(1)(2), Cabrini RL(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral Pathology, School of Dentistry, University of Buenos 
Aires, Buenos Aires, Argentina.
(2)National Research Council (CONICET), Buenos Aires, Argentina.
(3)Department of Radiobiology, National Atomic Energy Commission, Buenos Aires, 
Argentina.

Osseointegration was originally defined as a direct structural and functional 
connection between ordered living bone and the surface of a load-carrying 
implant. It is now said that an implant is regarded as osseointegrated when 
there is no progressive relative movement between the implant and the bone with 
which it is in direct contact. Although the term osseointegration was initially 
used with reference to titanium metallic implants, the concept is currently 
applied to all biomaterials that have the ability to osseointegrate. 
Biomaterials are closely related to the mechanism of osseointegration; these 
materials are designed to be implanted or incorporated into the living system 
with the aims to substitute for, or regenerate, tissues and tissue functions. 
Objective evaluation of the properties of the different biomaterials and of the 
factors that influence bone repair in general, and at the bone tissue-implant 
interface, is essential to the clinical success of an implant. The Biomaterials 
Laboratory of the Oral Pathology Department of the School of Dentistry at the 
University of Buenos Aires is devoted to the study and research of the 
properties and biological effects of biomaterials for dental implants and bone 
substitutes. This paper summarizes the research work resulting from over 
25 years' experience in this field. It includes studies conducted at our 
laboratory on the local and systemic factors affecting the peri-implant bone 
healing process, using experimental models developed by our research team. The 
results of our research on corrosion, focusing on dental implants, as well as 
our experience in the evaluation of failed dental implants and bone biopsies 
obtained following maxillary sinus floor augmentation with bone substitutes, are 
also reported. Research on biomaterials and their interaction with the 
biological system is a continuing challenge in biomedicine, which aims to 
achieve optimal biocompatibility and thus contribute to patient health.

© 2019 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/prd.12254
PMID: 30892769 [Indexed for MEDLINE]