[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: herbal medicine drug interaction pharmacokinetics | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: herbal medicine drug interaction pharmacokinetics]

69. J Food Sci. 2011 May;76(4):R112-24. doi: 10.1111/j.1750-3841.2011.02155.x.

Potential risks resulting from fruit/vegetable-drug interactions: effects on 
drug-metabolizing enzymes and drug transporters.

Rodríguez-Fragoso L(1), Martínez-Arismendi JL, Orozco-Bustos D, Reyes-Esparza J, 
Torres E, Burchiel SW.

Author information:
(1)Facultad de Farmacia, Univ. Autónoma del Estado de Morelos, Cuernavaca, 
México. mrodriguezf@uaem.mx

It has been well established that complex mixtures of phytochemicals in fruits 
and vegetables can be beneficial for human health. Moreover, it is becoming 
increasingly apparent that phytochemicals can influence the pharmacological 
activity of drugs by modifying their absorption characteristics through 
interactions with drug transporters as well as drug-metabolizing enzyme systems. 
Such effects are more likely to occur in the intestine and liver, where high 
concentrations of phytochemicals may occur. Alterations in cytochrome P450 and 
other enzyme activities may influence the fate of drugs subject to extensive 
first-pass metabolism. Although numerous studies of nutrient-drug interactions 
have been published and systematic reviews and meta-analyses of these studies 
are available, no generalizations on the effect of nutrient-drug interactions on 
drug bioavailability are currently available. Several publications have 
highlighted the unintended consequences of the combined use of nutrients and 
drugs. Many phytochemicals have been shown to have pharmacokinetic interactions 
with drugs. The present review is limited to commonly consumed fruits and 
vegetables with significant beneficial effects as nutrients and components in 
folk medicine. Here, we discuss the phytochemistry and pharmacokinetic 
interactions of the following fruit and vegetables: grapefruit, orange, 
tangerine, grapes, cranberry, pomegranate, mango, guava, black raspberry, black 
mulberry, apple, broccoli, cauliflower, watercress, spinach, tomato, carrot, and 
avocado. We conclude that our knowledge of the potential risk of nutrient-drug 
interactions is still limited. Therefore, efforts to elucidate potential risks 
resulting from food-drug interactions should be intensified in order to prevent 
undesired and harmful clinical consequences.

© 2011 Institute of Food Technologists®

DOI: 10.1111/j.1750-3841.2011.02155.x
PMID: 22417366 [Indexed for MEDLINE]