[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: biomaterial implant osseointegration titanium clin | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: biomaterial implant osseointegration titanium clinical]

94. J Biomed Nanotechnol. 2012 Dec;8(6):1012-24. doi: 10.1166/jbn.2012.1457.

Nanocoating of titanium implant surfaces with organic molecules. Polysaccharides 
including glycosaminoglycans.

Gurzawska K(1), Svava R, Jørgensen NR, Gotfredsen K.

Author information:
(1)Research Center for Ageing and Osteoporosis, Department of Medicine and 
Clinical Biochemistry, Glostrup University Hospital, Ndr Ringvej 69, 2600 
Glostrup, Denmark.

Long-term stability of titanium implants are dependent on a variety of factors. 
Nanocoating with organic molecules is one of the method used to improve 
osseointegration. Nanoscale modification of titanium implants affects surface 
properties, such as hydrophilicity, biochemical bonding capacity and roughness. 
This influences cell behaviour on the surface such as adhesion, proliferation 
and differentiation of cells as well as the mineralization of the extracellular 
matrix at the implant surfaces. The aim of the present systematic review was to 
describe organic molecules used for surface nanocoating with focus on 
polysaccharides including glycosaminoglycans, and how these molecules change 
surface properties, cell reactions and affect on osseointegartion. The included 
in vitro studies demonstrated increased cell adhesion, proliferation and 
mineralization of a number of the tested polysaccharide nanocoatings. The 
included in vivo studies, showed improvement of bone interface reactions 
measured as increased Bone-to-Implant Contact length and Bone Mineral Density 
adjacent to the polysaccharide coated surfaces. Based on existing literature, 
surface modification with polysaccharide and glycosaminoglycans appears to be an 
effective way to stimulate bone regeneration on bone-implant interface.

DOI: 10.1166/jbn.2012.1457
PMID: 23030010 [Indexed for MEDLINE]