[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Propulsion Mechanics | Topic: List of stories featuring nuclear pulse propulsion | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# List of stories featuring nuclear pulse propulsion — Overview

the most primitive and wasteful methods of interstellar flight, still only achieved by a tiny minority of all intelligent races in the universe. The ship is said to be the last relic of an unknown race exterminated by the dominant YiYiki (descendants of the humpback whales). In the John Varley novel The Golden Globe, the wreck of an Orion spaceship is converted to an interstellar starship. John Varley's Steel Beach sets several scenes near or within the bulk of the "Robert A. Heinlein," an Orion-style ship which was built and then abandoned when humanity lapsed into apathy for stellar exploration. Chris Berman's novel, The Hive, involves the use of a ground-launched Orion spacecraft by the People's Republic of China in a gamble to reach an alien artifact in orbit between Jupiter and Saturn before the crew of a spacecraft built by the United States and Russia can reach it first. The novel has been banned in China until "these references are removed" which shows how sensitive the whole subject of nuclear bomb propulsion still is. In Stephen Baxter's novel Ark a starship Ark One is built to save a small group of people as Earth drowns under a global flood. It launches and performs the first phase of its mission using a version of Orion. This version is ground-launched though owing to the situation (the entire planet is about to drown anyway) environmental concerns are set aside. In the books Ilium and Olympos by Dan Simmons a space ship with Orion thrust is used to travel through the Solar System over the course of a week. In the book Citadel by John Ringo, an Orion Drive is used to upgrade the 9 km diameter Battlestation Troy into a mobile spaceship. In the Frontlines series by Marko Kloos, the only defense Earth has against an alien menace are the Orion Missiles, large pykrete projectiles powered with nuclear explosions from behind that push them towards their target. In Kim Stanley Robinson's 2015 novel Aurora, an interstellar spacecraft uses a fusion rocket to decelerate. Other media

 The Star Trek: The Original Series episode "For the World is Hollow and I Have Touched the Sky" features a generation ship, constructed out of a hollowed-out iron asteroid, propelled using "Orion class nuclear pulse engines" in which fission bombs were detonated in shafts. It appeared to have been traveling for about 10,000 years, and had travelled about 30 light years on its own power. The Space: 1999 episode "Voyager's Return" featured a fictional nuclear drive probe called "Voyager One", powered by the life-destroying "Queller Drive", which killed all the life forms on two of the Federated Worlds of Sidon. The episode centers on the Sidons's seek for revenge against Earth. In the FOX television series Virtuality, Phaeton (Earth's first starship) is propelled by an Orion drive. In the backstory for the video game Sid Meier's Alpha Centauri, the sleeper ship is propelled by an Orion-type drive, the shield of which fails (almost certainly due to sabotage) when the ship is almost at its destination, causing the passengers on the colony ship to splinter into factions. The 1998 film Deep Impact featured a spacecraft named Messiah, which utilized the "Orion drive" and appears to be a variant of nuclear detonation propulsion. In the film, the drive is credited to the Russians. The 2006 movie Earthstorm with Stephen Baldwin and Dirk Benedict. The crew sent to the moon used nuclear pulse to get to there faster than conventional means. The Orion concept is used in the series premiere of Ben 10: Ultimate Alien for Earth's first interstellar spaceship. In Mobile Suit Zeta Gundam, the GRYPS-2 laser cannon and the asteroid base Axis use Orion-type drives. While it never comes up in the actual show, in the DVD extras for Firefly, Joss Whedon mentions that his idea for the "full burn" propulsion in the title spacecraft class was a directed nuclear detonation. The 2011 movie Attack of the Moon Zombies features an "Orion Atomic Pulse Rocket" that transports people and supplies to a lunar base. The model was based on the lunar ferry design described in a Project Orion report. In the 2012 National Geographic documentary Evacuate Earth, an interstellar ark ship built to transport evacuees from Earth to Barnard's Star uses a nuclear pulse drive based on Project Orion. The 2014 Syfy Channel miniseries Ascension is based on a Project Orion generation ship being built in the early 1960s. The 2019 announcement trailers for Kerbal Space Program 2 featured a nuclear pulse propulsion engine in flight over the game's planet of Duna. References

Stories featuring nuclear pulse propulsion
Nuclear pulse propulsion