[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: phytotherapy systematic review clinical evidence | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: phytotherapy systematic review clinical evidence]

40. Complement Ther Med. 2019 Jun;44:242-252. doi: 10.1016/j.ctim.2019.04.019.
Epub  2019 Apr 25.

Herbal medicines for suppressing appetite: A systematic review of randomized 
clinical trials.

Sahebkar-Khorasani M(1), Jarahi L(2), Cramer H(3), Safarian M(4), 
Naghedi-Baghdar H(1), Salari R(5), Behravanrad P(6), Azizi H(7).

Author information:
(1)School of Persian and Complementary Medicine, Mashhad University of Medical 
Sciences, Mashhad, Iran.
(2)Department of Community Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, Mashhad University of 
Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran.
(3)Department of Internal and Integrative Medicine, Kliniken Essen-Mitte, 
Faculty of Medicine, University of Duisburg-Essen, Essen, Germany.
(4)Metabolic Syndrome Research Center, School of Medicine, Mashhad University of 
Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran; Department of Nutrition, School of Medicine, 
Mashhad University of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran.
(5)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences in Persian Medicine, School of Persian 
and Complementary Medicine, Mashhad University of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, 
Iran.
(6)Student of Veterinary Medicine, Islamic Azad University, Science and Research 
Branch, Tehran, Iran.
(7)Department of Chinese and Complementary Medicine, School of Persian and 
Complementary Medicine, Mashhad University of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran. 
Electronic address: azizih@mums.ac.ir.

The suppression of appetite with herbal medicines has become very popular in 
recent years. We conducted this systematic review to evaluate the recent 
scientific evidence regarding herbal medicines that are used to suppress 
appetite. We retrieved clinical trials from PubMed, Cochrane Central Register of 
Controlled Trials, Web of Science, Scientific Information Database, and 
IranMedex from January 1, 2013 to April 24, 2018. English and Persian language 
randomized clinical trials that used herbal medicines to suppress appetite in 
healthy or obese or overweight individuals were included. Risk of bias was 
assessed using Cochrane methodology. Out of 591 articles, 22 trials with 973 
participants were included. One study on the Meratrim formulation which 
contained the Sphaeranthus indicus flower heads extract and Garcinia mangostana 
fruit, revealed longer-term evidence; while 6 studies on Ilex paraguariensis, 
Spinacia oleracea, Phaseolus vulgaris, Secale cereale, Sorghum bicolor and 
Plantago showed short-term evidence for suppressing appetite. No serious adverse 
events were reported. Despite some methodological concerns in the included 
studies, there is promising evidence for suppressing appetite with herbal 
medicines that needs to be confirmed in long-term clinical trials with adequate 
sample size and higher methodological quality with more attention to safety, 
effective dose and side effects.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ctim.2019.04.019
PMID: 31126562 [Indexed for MEDLINE]