[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Propulsion Mechanics | Topic: General Electric YF120 | Type: Instruction-QA | Level: Graduate]

Question: Provide a comprehensive expert-level explanation of General Electric YF120 in the context of Applied Sciences.

Answer:
The General Electric YF120, internally designated as GE37, was a variable cycle afterburning turbofan engine designed by General Electric Aircraft Engines in the late 1980s and early 1990s for the United States Air Force's Advanced Tactical Fighter (ATF) program. It was designed to produce maximum thrust in the  class. Prototype engines were installed in the two competing technology demonstrator aircraft, the Lockheed YF-22 and Northrop YF-23.

Pratt & Whitney's competing F119 was selected over the F120 to power the ATF, the competition for which the Lockheed team won, and became F-22 Raptor.

History

Development
General Electric (GE) began developing the GE37, which would become basis of the XF120 and YF120, for the Joint Advanced Fighter Engine (JAFE) program in the early 1980s aimed at supplying the powerplant for the Air Force's Advanced Tactical Fighter (ATF). The core technology used in the F120 design was developed during two industry-government programs, the Advanced Technology Engine Gas Generator (ATEGG) and Joint Technology Demonstration Engine (JTDE) programs. The design was meant to address the challenging supercruise requirement of the ATF. This meant the engine had to produce a large amount of dry thrust (without afterburner) and therefore have high off-design efficiency ("design" being standard cruise conditions). Unlike competitor Pratt & Whitney, GE elected against developing a conventional fixed bypass turbofan and instead chose to design a variable cycle engine. Additional innovations include the use of one-piece disk and rotor blade assemblies, or "blisks", in the fan and compressor stages to increase performance and durability as well as reduce weight and parts count. The original RFP called for maximum thrust in the  class.

Due to the ATF's increasing weight during development from  to , thrust requirement was increased by 20% to the  class in order to meet performance requirements. GE's design changed to incorporate a 12% larger fan to increase airflow as well as cooling air, particularly for the nozzles. For flight demonstration, YF120s were fitted with the larger fan, unlike the YF119 which used its original small fan. As a result, both demonstrator aircraft had higher performance with the YF120s than with the YF119s. The YF120-powered the YF-22 and YF-23 to supercruise speeds of Mach 1.58 and Mach 1.72 respectively. While the YF120 engine never went into production, it was installed in the YF-22 for the high angle of attack demonstrations.

The Engineering & Manufacturing Development (EMD) configuration of the F120 was tested in December 1990. Component improvements enabled it to achieve YF120 thrust levels at lower temperatures. The USAF ultimately chose the Pratt & Whitney's F119 proposal for full-scale development and production. The more ambitious F120 design was judged to be riskier, and General Electric also accrued fewer testing hours than Pratt & Whitney.

Further developments
The YF120 was also proposed as the basis for a more exotic engine, the Turbine-Based Combined Cycle (TBCC) engine that was to be used in demonstrator aircraft like the X-43B and future hypersonic aircraft. Specifically, the YF120 was to be the basis for the Revolutionary Turbine Accelerator (RTA-1). The variable cycle technology used in the YF120 would be extended to not only turn the engine into a turbojet but also into a ramjet. In that mode all airflow would bypass the core and be diverted into the afterburner-like "hyperburner" where it would be combusted like a ramjet. This proposed engine was to accelerate from 0 to Mach 4.1 (at 56,000 ft) in eight minutes.

Technology from the YF120 has been applied to subsequent GE designs; in the 1990s, GE and Rolls-Royce began jointly developing the F136 engine for the Joint Strike Fighter program. While drawing from lessons learned from the YF120, the F136 is a conventional fixed-bypass design; it also leveraged advances in turbine engine technology from the Integrated High Performance Turbine Engine Technology (IHPTET) program, which continued developments from ATEGG and JTDE. Despite better performance potential than the incumbent Pratt & Whitney F135, The F136 was eventually cancelled due to a lack of funding.

Despite not selecting the YF120 for the ATF, the USAF would further the development of variable cycle engine technology through the Versatile Affordable Advanced Turbine Engines (VAATE), a joint government and industry effort that aims to address future turbine engine needs. Under the VAATE, the Adaptive Versatile Engine Technology (ADVENT) program would continue the development of variable cycle turbine engine technology into an adaptive three-stream architecture. The follow-on Adaptive Engine Technology Demonstrator (AETD), Adaptive Engine Transition Program (AETP) and the Next Generational Adaptive Propulsion (NGAP) resulted in the development of the GE XA100 and the P&W XA101 for potential reengining of the Lockheed Martin F-35 and adaptive engines for the Next Generation Air Dominance and F/A-XX programs, successors to the ATF.

Design
The YF120 is a twin-spool axial-flow afterburning turbofan. The design consists of a two-stage fan driven by the single-stage low-pressure turbine and a five-stage compressor driven by the single-stage high-pressure turbine. Notably, the engine has two bypass channels which are located at the front and rear of the first compressor stage of the high-pressure spool, also known as the core-driven fan stage; these two bypass channels are key to the engine's variable cycle operation. The annular combustor is a double-dome design. The high and low-pressure spools are counter-rotating, which eliminates the stationary vanes between the turbines and reducing the number of parts and decreasing weight. The engine is controlled by a three-channel fuel-cooled full authority digital engine control (FADEC) system.

Variable cycle
The YF120's variable cycle system worked by varying the bypass ratio of th