[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: photodynamic therapy cancer clinical trial | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: photodynamic therapy cancer clinical trial]

30. Gut. 2002 Apr;50(4):549-57. doi: 10.1136/gut.50.4.549.

Photodynamic therapy for cancer of the pancreas.

Bown SG(1), Rogowska AZ, Whitelaw DE, Lees WR, Lovat LB, Ripley P, Jones L, Wyld 
P, Gillams A, Hatfield AW.

Author information:
(1)National Medical Laser Centre, Department of Surgery, Royal Free and 
University College Medical School, London, UK. s.bown@ucl.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: Few pancreatic cancers are suitable for surgery and few respond to 
chemoradiation. Photodynamic therapy produces local necrosis of tissue with 
light after prior administration of a photosensitising agent, and in 
experimental studies can be tolerated by the pancreas and surrounding normal 
tissue.
AIMS: To undertake a phase I study of photodynamic therapy for cancer of the 
pancreas.
PATIENTS: Sixteen patients with inoperable adenocarcinomas (2.5-6 cm in 
diameter) localised to the region of the head of the pancreas were studied. All 
presented with obstructive jaundice which was relieved by biliary stenting prior 
to further treatment.
METHODS: Patients were photosensitised with 0.15 mg/kg meso-tetrahydroxyphenyl 
chlorin intravenously. Three days later, light was delivered to the cancer 
percutaneously using fibres positioned under computerised tomographic guidance. 
Three had subsequent chemotherapy.
RESULTS: All patients had substantial tumour necrosis on scans after treatment. 
Fourteen of 16 left hospital within 10 days. Eleven had a Karnofsky performance 
status of 100 prior to treatment. In 10 it returned to 100 at one month. Two 
patients with tumour involving the gastroduodenal artery had significant 
gastrointestinal bleeds (controlled without surgery). Three patients developed 
duodenal obstruction during follow up that may have been related to treatment. 
There was no treatment related mortality. The median survival time after 
photodynamic therapy was 9.5 months (range 4-30). Seven of 16 patients (44%) 
were alive one year after photodynamic therapy.
CONCLUSIONS: Photodynamic therapy can produce necrosis in pancreatic cancers 
with an acceptable morbidity although care is required for tumours invading the 
duodenal wall or involving the gastroduodenal artery. Further studies are 
indicated to assess its influence on the course of the disease, alone or in 
combination with chemoradiation.

DOI: 10.1136/gut.50.4.549
PMCID: PMC1773165
PMID: 11889078 [Indexed for MEDLINE]