[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: Fiber-optic communication | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Fiber-optic communication — Overview

is not common in short box-to-box, backplane, or chip-to-chip applications; however, optical systems on those scales have been demonstrated in the laboratory. In certain situations, fiber may be used even for short-distance or low-bandwidth applications, due to other important features: Immunity to electromagnetic interference, including nuclear electromagnetic pulses. High electrical resistance, making it safe to use near high-voltage equipment or between areas with different earth potentials. Lighter weight—important, for example, in aircraft. No sparks—important in flammable or explosive gas environments. Not electromagnetically radiating, and difficult to tap without disrupting the signal—important in high-security environments. Much smaller cable size—important where the pathway is limited, such as networking an existing building, where smaller channels can be drilled and space can be saved in existing cable ducts and trays. Resistance to corrosion due to non-metallic transmission medium

Optical fiber cables can be installed in buildings with the same equipment that is used to install copper and coaxial cables, with some modifications due to the small size and limited pull tension and bend radius of optical cables. Optical cables can typically be installed in duct systems in spans of 6000 meters or more depending on the duct's condition, layout of the duct system, and installation technique. Longer cables can be coiled at an intermediate point and pulled farther into the duct system as necessary. Governing standards 
In order for various manufacturers to be able to develop components that function compatibly in fiber optic communication systems, a number of standards have been developed. The International Telecommunication Union publishes several standards related to the characteristics and performance of fibers themselves, including
 ITU-T G.651, "Characteristics of a 50/125 μm multimode graded index optical fibre cable"
 ITU-T G.652, "Characteristics of a single-mode optical fibre cable"

Other standards specify performance criteria for fiber, transmitters, and receivers to be used together in conforming systems. Some of these standards are:
 100 Gigabit Ethernet
 10 Gigabit Ethernet
 Fibre Channel
 Gigabit Ethernet
 HIPPI
 Synchronous Digital Hierarchy
 Synchronous Optical Networking
 Optical transport network (OTN)

TOSLINK is the most common format for digital audio cable using plastic optical fiber to connect digital sources to digital receivers. See also 
 Dark fiber
 Fiber to the x
 Free-space optical communication

Notes

References 

 Encyclopedia of Laser Physics and Technology
 Fiber-Optic Technologies by Vivek Alwayn

Further reading 
 Keiser, Gerd. (2011). Optical fiber communications, 4th ed. New York, NY: McGraw-Hill, 
 Senior, John. (2008). Optical Fiber Communications: Principles and Practice, 3rd ed. Prentice Hall. External links

 "Understanding Optical Communications" An IBM redbook
 Fiber Optics - Internet, Cable and Telephone Communication

 
Photonics