[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Propulsion Mechanics | Topic: Space Systems Command | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Space Systems Command — Overview

one warhead, and scrapping the Pershing missiles. Due to the dramatic reduction in ballistic missiles, the Space and Missile Systems Center's Ballistic Missile Organization was officially inactivated in September 1993. The Space and Missile Systems Center followed up on the Space Division's development of the Delta II and Atlas II space launch vehicles, procuring launches using the upgraded Atlas III, which used the Russian RD-180 engine. Following six launch failures from April 1998 to May 1999 the Department of Defense started the Launch Broad Area Review, releasing its report in November 1999 and recommending that the Space and Missile Systems Center have broadened responsibility for all Department of Defense launches, from acquisition to deliver of spacecraft on-orbit. In August 1994, President Bill Clinton signed a National Transportation Space Policy, assigning responsibility for expendable launch vehicles to the Defense Department and directed it to develop improved variants of current vehicles. In response, the Space and Missile Systems Center built the Evolved Expendable Launch Vehicle program and awarded the first contracts in 1995. One went to McDonnell Douglas for the Delta IV and Delta IV Heavy, while the other went to Lockheed Martin for the Atlas V. In 2006, the two launch providers merged to form United Launch Alliance. In 2016, SpaceX was awarded its first military launch under the Evolved Expendable Launch Vehicle program, using its Falcon 9 and Falcon Heavy boosters. In 2019, in part due to SpaceX's success with reusable rockets, the program's name was changed to National Security Space Launch. In 1994, the Space and Missile Systems Center had started the Space-Based Infrared System (SBIRS) program to replace the Defense Support Program. SBIRS was built upon technology tested for the Strategic Defense Initiative, launching its first satellite in 2011. Since the 1970s, proposals were made to merge the military and National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration's (NOAA) weather satellites. In 1994, President Clinton directed that the programs eventually be merged. In 1995, the Air Force, NASA, and NOAA started the National Polar-orbiting Operational Environmental Satellite System which was intended to replace the Defense Metrological Support Program and be operated by NOAA, but the program collapsed due to cost overruns in 2010 and a full merging of the programs has not occurred. A second Defense Department-only effort, the Defense Weather Satellite System, was canceled by Congress in 2012. The Global Positioning System constellation became fully completed in 1994 and achieved initial operational capability in 1995. Milstar had its first launch in 1995 and the Space and Missile Systems Center started development on the Wideband Global SATCOM system to replace the Defense Satellite Communications System and the Advanced Extremely High Frequency to replace Milstar. The Brilliant Pebbles space-based anti-missile interceptor was transferred to the Space and Missile Systems Center in 1993 from the Ballistic Missile Defense Organization, but was terminated in 1994. In 2001, the Space Commission came out with its report on national security space. A major recommendation was realigning the Space and Missile Systems Center from Air Force Materiel Command to Air Force Space Command to consolidate management of space programs to one major command. This occurred on 1 October 2001. On 1 August 2006, the Space and Missile Systems Center reorganized itself along a traditional Air Force wing and group construct. These included the Military Satellite Communications Systems Wing which replaced the MILSATCOM Joint System Program Office (JPO), the Launch and Range Systems Wing, which replaced the Launch and Ranges JPO, the Global Positioning Systems Wing, which replaced the Navstar GPS JPO, the Space-Based Infrared Systems Wing, which replaced the SBIRS System Program Office (SPO), the Space Superiority Systems Wing, the Space Development and Test Wing at Kirtland Air Force Base, which included the former SMC Detachment 12, the 61st Air Base Wing, which replaced the 61st Air Base Group, the Satellite Control and Network Systems Group, which replaced the Air Force Satellite Control Network SPO, the Space Logistics Group, which replaced the SMC Logistics Support Squadron, and the Defense Meteorological Satellite Program Systems Group, which replaced the DMSP SPO. On 31 March 2008, the Missile Defense Systems Group was activated. However, in response to the lead of Air Force Materiel Command, on 10 November 2010 the wings and groups redesignated as directorates and divisions as part of an Air Force acquisitions wide effort. This resulted in the 61st Air Base Wing being inactivated and replaced with the 61st Air Base Group, the GPS Wing becoming the Global Positioning Systems Directorate, the Launch and Range Systems Wing becoming the Launch Enterprise Directorate, the MILSATCOM Wing becoming the Military Satellite Communications Directorate, the Space Superiority Systems Wing becoming the Space Superiority Systems Directorate, the SIBRS Wing becoming the Infrared Space Systems Directorate, the Space Development and Test Wing becoming the Space Development and Test Directorate, the Space Logistics Group becoming the Space Logistics Directorate, the DMSP Group becoming the Defense Weather Systems Directorate, the Missile Defense Systems Group becoming the Missile Defense Systems Division, and the Satellite Control and Network Systems Group becoming the Satellite Control and Network Systems Division

In 2014, the Space and Missile Systems Center combined its Developmental Planning Directorate and the Space Development and Test Directorate to form the Advanced Systems and Development Directorate.