[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: magnetic nanoparticle hyperthermia cancer therapy | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: magnetic nanoparticle hyperthermia cancer therapy]

22. Wiley Interdiscip Rev Nanomed Nanobiotechnol. 2022 May;14(3):e1779. doi: 
10.1002/wnan.1779. Epub 2022 Mar 3.

Clinical magnetic hyperthermia requires integrated magnetic particle imaging.

Healy S(1)(2), Bakuzis AF(3), Goodwill PW(4), Attaluri A(5), Bulte 
JWM(1)(6)(7)(8)(9), Ivkov R(2)(9)(10)(11).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Whiting School of Engineering, Johns 
Hopkins University, Baltimore, Maryland, USA.
(2)Department of Radiation Oncology and Molecular Radiation Sciences, Johns 
Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland, USA.
(3)Instituto de Física and CNanoMed, Universidade Federal de Goiás, Goiânia, GO, 
Brazil.
(4)Magnetic Insight, Inc., Alameda, California, USA.
(5)Department of Mechanical Engineering, Pennsylvania State University, 
Harrisburg, Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, USA.
(6)Russell H. Morgan Department of Radiology and Radiological Science, Johns 
Hopkins Hospital, Baltimore, Maryland, USA.
(7)Cellular Imaging Section and Vascular Biology Program, Institute for Cell 
Engineering, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland, 
USA.
(8)Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering, Whiting School of 
Engineering, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Maryland, USA.
(9)Department of Oncology, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, 
Baltimore, Maryland, USA.
(10)Department of Materials Science and Engineering, Whiting School of 
Engineering, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Maryland, USA.
(11)Department of Mechanical Engineering, Whiting School of Engineering, Johns 
Hopkins University, Baltimore, Maryland, USA.

Magnetic nanomaterials that respond to clinical magnetic devices have 
significant potential as cancer nanotheranostics. The complexities of their 
physics, however, introduce challenges for these applications. Hyperthermia is a 
heat-based cancer therapy that improves treatment outcomes and patient survival 
when controlled energy delivery is combined with accurate thermometry. To date, 
few technologies have achieved the needed evolution for the demands of the 
clinic. Magnetic fluid hyperthermia (MFH) offers this potential, but to be 
successful it requires particle-imaging technology that provides real-time 
thermometry. Presently, the only technology having the potential to meet these 
requirements is magnetic particle imaging (MPI), for which a proof-of-principle 
demonstration with MFH has been achieved. Successful clinical translation and 
adoption of integrated MPI/MFH technology will depend on successful resolution 
of the technological challenges discussed. This article is categorized under: 
Therapeutic Approaches and Drug Discovery > Nanomedicine for Oncologic Disease 
Diagnostic Tools > In Vivo Nanodiagnostics and Imaging.

© 2022 The Authors. WIREs Nanomedicine and Nanobiotechnology published by Wiley 
Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/wnan.1779
PMCID: PMC9107505
PMID: 35238181 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: P.W.G. is an inventor of MPI technology and an 
employee of Magnetic Insight, a company that develops and manufactures MPI 
scanners and MPI/MFH combination devices. R.I. is an inventor of nanoparticle 
patents. All patents are assigned to either The Johns Hopkins University or 
Aduro Biosciences, Inc. R.I. is a member of the Scientific Advisory Board (SAB) 
of Imagion Biosystems. J.W.M.B is chair of the SAB of SuperBranche, a company 
that develops MIONPs. All other authors report no other conflicts of interest. 
Dr. Bulte is an editor of the journal and was excluded from the peer‐review 
process and all editorial decisions related to the publication of this article.