[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: Alternatives | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Alternatives — Overview

Founded in 1994, Alternatives, Action and Communication Network for International Development, is a non-governmental, international solidarity organization based in Montreal, Quebec, Canada. Alternatives works to promote justice and equality amongst individuals and communities worldwide. Active in over 35 countries, Alternatives supports local, community-based initiatives working towards the greater economic, social, and political rights of people and communities affected by poverty, discrimination, exploitation, and violence. The organization publishes the Le Journal des Alternatives newsletter, a publication inserted every three months in Montreal's French paper Le Voir. Alternatives also publishes the Alternatives International Journal, a monthly publication in English distributed electronically. Alternatives Montreal is the headquarters of an International Federation consisting of nine NGOs spread across the world. Alternative-Niger, Alternatives Asia (New Delhi), Alternative Information Center (Jerusalem), Forum Macrocain des Alternatives Sud, Initiative Pour un Autre Monde, Institut Alternatives Terrazul, Khanya College, and Teacher Creativity Center. Vision
Alternatives knows that, through the development of sustainable societies, another world is possible. This belief is grounded in the engagement, experience, and values of Alternatives' members and the social movements to which they belong. • In this world, women, men and children will live in dignity and respect, and will equitably share the power and resources they need to live and thrive. • In this world, the diversity of peoples and persons will be respected, as will the human, civil, economic, social, and cultural rights of all of its inhabitants. • In this world, solidarity, cooperation, respect for the environment, participatory democracy, and peace will be the pillars that hold it aloft. • In this world, founded upon sustainable, just, and democratic social and economic development, construction has already begun at a local, national, and global level. Mission statement
Alternatives' mission statement (2009) reads: "Strengthened by our vision and national and international experience, Alternatives is an organization that works for solidarity, justice, and equity the world over. Alternatives' aim is to help the networking, building, and promoting of innovative initiatives in popular and social movements that are fighting for economic, social, political, cultural and environmental rights."

The organization says that it wants to "strengthen citizen action and reinforce the contribution of social movements in the construction of sustainable societies."

International program
Alternatives is present in Latin America, Africa, Europe and the Middle East, as well as Central, South and Southeast Asia. Alternatives Montreal is the headquarters of a federation consisting of nine NGOs spread across the world. Alternative-Niger, Alternatives Asia (New Delhi), Alternative Information Center (Jerusalem), Forum Macrocain des Alternatives Sud, Initiative Pour un Autre Monde, Institut Alternatives Terrazul, Khanya College, and Teacher Creativity Center. In each of these regions, the organisation works in direct partnership with groups of women and men who are struggling for progress, respect and justice; as well as the peace and sustainable development of their community, their environment, and their region. Alternatives supports network creation between groups so that they can benefit from their shared experiences and successes. Network formation is crucial since it allows for a deepened analysis and comprehension of the conflicts affecting their communities from the outside. Alternatives' and its partners' international solidarity projects are centered upon:
 The environment and sustainable development
 Democracy
 Rehabilitation of communities affected by war
 Good governance
 Socio-economic justice and equality
 Civil, political, economic, social and human rights
 The fight against poverty
 Women's rights, equality between genders, the inclusion of women in all spheres of society
 Education and inclusion of youth
 Civil society development, management, and autonomy
 Freedom of organization, of information, of the press, and of religion

Criticism 
Alternatives has been criticised as a political organisation supporting "left-leaning causes" through taxpayer funds, provided by the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA). The Conservative government noted that the Alternatives' board includes "supporters of Hezbollah and Hamas, such as Ali Mallah, vice-president of the Canadian Arab Federation." In addition, the government was reported to have been concerned regarding a 2008 "education camp" at Saint-Alphonse de Rodriguez in Quebec, was attended by "500 motivated militants" from Lebanon, Iraq, and Venezuela. Youth Internship Programs
Alternatives organizes overseas youth internship programs (such as Alternatives' NetCorps program), with the aim of developing a sense of solidarity and curiosity about other regions within youth.