[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: Rotor (electric) | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Rotor (electric) — Overview

alternating current to direct current. Operating principle In a three-phase induction machine, alternating current supplied to the stator windings energizes it to create a rotating magnetic flux. The flux generates a magnetic field in the air gap between the stator and the rotor and induces a voltage which produces current through the rotor bars. The rotor circuit is shorted and current flows in the rotor conductors. The action of the rotating flux and the current produces a force that generates a torque to start the motor. An alternator rotor is made up of a wire coil enveloped around an iron core. The magnetic component of the rotor is made from steel laminations to aid stamping conductor slots to specific shapes and sizes. As currents travel through the wire coil a magnetic field is created around the core, which is referred to as field current. The field current strength controls the power level of the magnetic field. Direct current (DC) drives the field current in one direction, and is delivered to the wire coil by a set of brushes and slip rings. Like any magnet, the magnetic field produced has a north and a south pole. The normal clockwise direction of the motor that the rotor is powering can be manipulated by using the magnets and magnetic fields installed in the design of the rotor, allowing the motor to run in reverse or counterclockwise. Characteristics of rotors

 Squirrel-cage rotor

This rotor rotates at a speed less than the stator rotating magnetic field or synchronous speed. Rotor slip provides necessary induction of rotor currents for motor torque, which is in proportion to slip. When rotor speed increases, the slip decreases. Increasing the slip increases induced motor current, which in turn increases rotor current, resulting in a higher torque for increase load demands. Wound rotor

This rotor operates at constant speed and has lower starting current
External resistance added to rotor circuit, increases starting torque
Motor running efficiency improves as external resistance is reduced when motor speed up. Higher torque and speed control
 Salient pole rotor

This rotor operates at a speed below 1500 rpm (revolutions per minute) and 40% of its rated torque without excitation
It has a large diameter and short axial length
Air gap is non uniform
Rotor has low mechanical strength
 Cylindrical rotor

The rotor operates at speed between 1500-3600 rpm
It has strong mechanical strength
Air gap is uniform
Its diameter is small and has a large axial length and requires a higher torque than salient pole rotor

Rotor equations

Rotor bar voltage
The rotating magnetic field induces a voltage in the rotor bars as it passes over them. This equation applies to induced voltage in the rotor bars. where:
= induced voltage
= magnetic field
=conductor length
=synchronous speed
= conductor speed

Torque in rotor
A torque is produced by the force produced through the interactions of the magnetic field and current as expressed by the given: Ibid

where:
=force
=torque
=radius of rotor rings
=rotor bar

Induction motor slip
A stator magnetic field rotates at synchronous speed,  Ibid

where:
= frequency
= number of poles

If = rotor speed, the slip, S for an induction motor is expressed as:

mechanical speed of rotor, in terms of slip and synchronous speed:

Relative speed of slip:

Frequency of induced voltages and currents

See also
 Armature (electrical engineering) - any "rotor" that carries some form of alternating current
 Balancing machine
 Commutator (electric)
 Electric motor
 Field coil
 Rotordynamics
 Stator

References

Electric motors