[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: plant alkaloid biosynthesis pathway elucidation | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: plant alkaloid biosynthesis pathway elucidation]

28. Philos Trans R Soc Lond B Biol Sci. 2024 Nov 18;379(1914):20230366. doi: 
10.1098/rstb.2023.0366. Epub 2024 Sep 30.

Evolution of the biochemistry underpinning purine alkaloid metabolism in plants.

Jia X(1), Luo S(1), Ye X(1), Liu L(1), Wen W(1).

Author information:
(1)National Key Laboratory for Germplasm Innovation & Utilization of 
Horticultural Crops, Key Laboratory of Horticultural Plant Biology (MOE), 
College of Horticulture and Forestry Sciences, Huazhong Agricultural University 
, Wuhan 430070, People's Republic of China.

Purine alkaloids are naturally occurring nitrogenous methylated derivatives of 
purine nucleotide degradation products, having essential roles in medicine, food 
and various other aspects of our daily lives. They are generated through 
convergent evolution in different plant species. The pivotal reaction steps 
within the purine alkaloid metabolic pathways have been largely elucidated, and 
the convergent evolution of purine alkaloids has been substantiated through 
bioinformatic, biochemical and other research perspectives within 
S-adenosyl-ʟ-methionine-dependent N-methyltransferases. Currently, the 
biological and ecological roles of purine alkaloids, further refinement of the 
purine alkaloid metabolic pathways and the investigation of purine alkaloid 
adaptive evolutionary mechanisms continue to attract widespread research 
interest. The exploration of the purine alkaloid metabolic pathways also 
enhances our comprehension of the biochemical mechanism, providing insights into 
inter-species interactions and adaptive evolution and offering potential value 
in drug development and agricultural applications. Here, we review the progress 
of research in the distribution, metabolic pathway elucidation and regulation, 
evolutionary mechanism and ecological roles of purine alkaloids in plants. The 
opportunities and challenges involved in elucidating the biochemical basis and 
evolutionary mechanisms of the purine alkaloid metabolic pathways, as well as 
other research aspects, are also discussed. This article is part of the theme 
issue 'The evolution of plant meta-bolism'.

DOI: 10.1098/rstb.2023.0366
PMCID: PMC11449220
PMID: 39343019 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: We declare we have no competing interests.