[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: graphene biomedical applications toxicity review | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: graphene biomedical applications toxicity review]

8. Int J Nanomedicine. 2016 May 5;11:1927-45. doi: 10.2147/IJN.S105264.
eCollection  2016.

Synthesis, toxicity, biocompatibility, and biomedical applications of graphene 
and graphene-related materials.

Gurunathan S(1), Kim JH(1).

Author information:
(1)Stem Cell and Regenerative Biology, Konkuk University, Seoul, Republic of 
Korea.

Graphene is a two-dimensional atomic crystal, and since its development it has 
been applied in many novel ways in both research and industry. Graphene 
possesses unique properties, and it has been used in many applications including 
sensors, batteries, fuel cells, supercapacitors, transistors, components of 
high-strength machinery, and display screens in mobile devices. In the past 
decade, the biomedical applications of graphene have attracted much interest. 
Graphene has been reported to have antibacterial, antiplatelet, and anticancer 
activities. Several salient features of graphene make it a potential candidate 
for biological and biomedical applications. The synthesis, toxicity, 
biocompatibility, and biomedical applications of graphene are fundamental issues 
that require thorough investigation in any kind of applications related to human 
welfare. Therefore, this review addresses the various methods available for the 
synthesis of graphene, with special reference to biological synthesis, and 
highlights the biological applications of graphene with a focus on cancer 
therapy, drug delivery, bio-imaging, and tissue engineering, together with a 
brief discussion of the challenges and future perspectives of graphene. We hope 
to provide a comprehensive review of the latest progress in research on 
graphene, from synthesis to applications.

DOI: 10.2147/IJN.S105264
PMCID: PMC4863686
PMID: 27226713 [Indexed for MEDLINE]