[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: curcumin anti-inflammatory clinical trial randomiz | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: curcumin anti-inflammatory clinical trial randomized]

75. Phytother Res. 2018 Mar;32(3):514-521. doi: 10.1002/ptr.5998. Epub 2017 Nov
28.

Curcumin nanomicelle improves semen parameters, oxidative stress, inflammatory 
biomarkers, and reproductive hormones in infertile men: A randomized clinical 
trial.

Alizadeh F(1), Javadi M(1), Karami AA(2), Gholaminejad F(1), Kavianpour M(3), 
Haghighian HK(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Nutrition, School of Health, Qazvin University of Medical 
Science, Qazvin, Iran.
(2)Department of Urology, Velayat Hospital, School of Medicine, Qazvin 
University of Medical Sciences, Qazvin, Iran.
(3)Department of Tissue Engineering and Applied Cell Sciences, Faculty of 
Advanced Technologies in Medicine, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, 
Tehran, Iran.

At least 50% of infertile couple's problems are related to male factor 
infertility. This Randomized, Double-Blind, Placebo-Controlled Clinical Trial 
conducted in Urology unit of Infertility Clinic on 60 infertile men. Patients 
were randomly assigned to one of intervention and placebo (n = 30) groups. 
Finally, 28 subjects in each group completed the study. Participants in the 
intervention group took daily 80 mg curcumin nanomicelle and those in the 
placebo group took daily placebo for 10 weeks. Semen analysis, anthropometric, 
physical activity assessments, total antioxidant capacity, malondialdehyde, 
inflammatory factors, and reproductive hormones were measured at the baseline 
and at the end of the study. At the end of study, statistically significant 
differences were seen in the total sperm count, sperm concentration, and 
motility in the intervention group to the control group. In treatment group, the 
total sperm count, sperm concentration, and motility levels were also 
statistically increased at the end of study compared to the baseline values. 
Curcumin nanomicelle supplementation also resulted in a statistically 
significant improvement in plasma levels of total antioxidant capacity, 
malondialdehyde, C-reactive protein, and tumor necrosis factor a in comparison 
to the placebo. Medical therapy of asthenoteratospermia with curcumin 
nanomicelle supplement could improve quality of semen parameters. However, 
further investigation is suggested in this regard.

Copyright © 2017 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/ptr.5998
PMID: 29193350 [Indexed for MEDLINE]