[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: Distributed-feedback laser | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Distributed-feedback laser — Overview

difficult to achieve, and often requires directly written electron-beam lithography. Often, rather than a single quarter-wave phase shift at the center of the cavity, multiple smaller shifts distributed in the cavity at different locations that spread out the mode longitudinally and give higher output power. An alternate way of breaking this degeneracy is by coating the back end of the laser to a high reflectivity (HR). The exact position of this end reflector cannot be accurately controlled, and so one obtains a random phase shift between the grating and the exact position of the end mirror. Sometimes this leads to a perfect phase shift, where effectively a quarter-wave phase shifted DFB is reflected on itself. In this case all the light exits the front facet, and one obtains a very stable laser. At other times, however, the phase shift between the grating and the high-reflector back mirror is not optimal, and one ends up with a two-moded lasers again. Additionally, the phase of the cleave affects the wavelength, and thus controlling the output wavelength of a batch of lasers in manufacturing can be a challenge. Thus the HR/AR DFB lasers tend to have low yield and must be screened before use. There are various combinations of coatings and phase shifts that can be optimized for power and yield, and generally each manufacturer has their own technique to optimize performance and yield. To encode data on a DFB laser for fiber-optic communications, generally the electric drive current is varied to modulate the intensity of the light. These DMLs (directly modulated lasers) are the simplest kinds and are found in various fiber-optic systems. The disadvantage of directly modulating a laser is that there are associated frequency shifts together with the intensity shifts (laser chirp). These frequency shifts, together with dispersion in the fiber, cause the signal to degrade after some distance, limiting the bandwidth and the range. An alternate structure is an electro-absorption modulated laser (EML) that runs the laser continuously and has a separate section integrated in front that either absorbs or transmits the light very much like an optical shutter. These EMLs can operate at higher speeds and have much lower chirp. In very high-performance coherent optical communication systems, the DFB laser is run continuously and is followed by a phase modulator. On the receiving end, a local oscillator DFB interferes with the received signal and decodes the modulation. An alternative approach is a phase-shifted DFB laser. In this case both facets are anti-reflection coated, and there is a phase shift in the cavity. Such devices have much better reproducibility in wavelength and theoretically all lase in single mode. In DFB fiber lasers the Bragg grating (which in this case forms also the cavity of the laser) has a phase-shift centered in the reflection band akin to a single very narrow transmission notch of a Fabry–Pérot interferometer. When configured properly, these lasers operate on a single longitudinal mode with coherence lengths in excess of tens of kilometres, essentially limited by the temporal noise induced by the self-heterodyne coherence detection technique used to measure the coherence. These DFB fibre lasers are often used in sensing applications where extreme narrow line width is required. References

 B. Mroziewicz,  "Physics of Semiconductor Lasers", pp. 348–364. 1991. J. Carroll, J. Whiteaway and D. Plumb, "Distributed Feedback Semiconductor Lasers", IEE Circuits, Devices and Systems Series 10, London (1998)

External links
 DFB Lasers Between 760 nm and 16 μm for Sensing Applications

Semiconductor lasers
 Israeli inventions