[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: low-level laser therapy wound healing pain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: low-level laser therapy wound healing pain]

13. J Lasers Med Sci. 2021 Aug 4;12:e42. doi: 10.34172/jlms.2021.42. eCollection 
2021.

Low-Level Laser Therapy: Potential and Complications.

Arjmand B(1), Khodadost M(2), Jahani Sherafat S(3), Rezaei Tavirani M(4), Ahmadi 
N(4), Hamzeloo Moghadam M(5), Okhovatian F(6), Rezaei Tavirani S(7), 
Rostami-Nejad M(8).

Author information:
(1)Cell Therapy and Regenerative Medicine Research Center, Endocrinology and 
Metabolism Molecular-Cellular Sciences Institute, Tehran University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(2)School of Traditional Medicine, Shahid Beheshti University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(3)Laser Application in Medical Sciences Research Center, Shahid Beheshti 
University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(4)Proteomics research center, Faculty of Paramedical Sciences, Shahid Beheshti 
University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(5)Traditional Medicine and Materia Medica Research Center, School of 
Traditional Medicine, Shahid Beheshti University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, 
Iran.
(6)Physiotherapy Research Centre, Shahid Beheshti University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(7)Proteomics research center, Shahid Beheshti University of Medical Sciences, 
Tehran, Iran.
(8)Gastroenterology and Liver Diseases Research Center, Research Institute for 
Gastroenterology and Liver Diseases, Shahid Beheshti University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran, Iran.

Introduction: Laser therapy has attracted experts' attention in medical 
sciences. Many benefits of laser therapy are presented besides some 
complications. In the present study, it is tried to present a new perspective of 
laser therapy in the various fields of medicine. Methods: Laser therapy-related 
articles which are combined with regenerative medicine, cosmetic, dentistry, 
neurodegenerative diseases, kidney, bone fracture, and vaginal function in the 
English language were searched through the google scholar search engine in the 
range of 2000-2021. After title screening, the abstracts were evaluated to 
access the full texts. Results: Basic concepts and various kinds of lasers which 
are applied in medicine were explained. Applications of laser therapy in various 
fields of medicine such as pain reduction, wound healing, regenerative medicine, 
dentistry, and several other body organs were highlighted and some complications 
were pointed. Conclusion: High potential of laser therapy for application in 
medicine implies a reconsideration of the laser properties and also styles of 
laser applications to improve the treatment and prevention of its side effects.

Copyright © 2021 J Lasers Med Sci.

DOI: 10.34172/jlms.2021.42
PMCID: PMC8558713
PMID: 34733765