[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Propulsion Mechanics | Topic: Marine propulsion | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Marine propulsion — Overview

tanker Vandal, launched in 1903. Turbo-electric Turbo-electric transmission uses electric generators to convert the mechanical energy of a turbine (steam or gas) into electric energy and electric motors to convert it back into mechanical energy to power the driveshafts. An advantage of turbo-electric transmission is that it allows the combination of high-speed turbines with slow turning propellers or wheels, without requiring a heavy and complex gearbox. It has the advantage of being able to provide electricity for the ship or train's other electrical systems, such as lighting, computers, radar, and communications equipment. Transmission of power 
To transmit the rotational force of the shaft into thrust, propellers are most commonly used in today's merchant vessels. The developed thrust from the propeller is transferred to the hull via a thrust bearing. Propulsion types
Numerous types of propulsion have been developed over time. These include:

Oars 

One of the oldest forms of marine propulsion, oars have been found dating back to 5000-4500 BCE. Oars are used in rowing sports such as rowing, kayaking, canoeing. Propeller

Marine propellers are also known as "screws". There are many variations of marine screw systems, including twin, contra-rotating, controllable-pitch, and nozzle-style screws. While smaller vessels tend to have a single screw, even very large ships such as tankers, container ships and bulk carriers may have single screws for reasons of fuel efficiency. Other vessels may have twin, triple or quadruple screws. Power is transmitted from the engine to the screw by way of a propeller shaft, which may be connected to a gearbox. The propeller then moves the vessel by creating thrust. When the propeller rotates the pressure in front of the propeller is lower than the pressure behind the propeller. The force from the pressure difference propels the propeller forward. Paddle wheel

The paddle wheel is a large wheel, generally built of a steel framework, upon the outer edge of which are fitted numerous paddle blades (called floats or buckets). The bottom quarter or so of the wheel travels underwater. Rotation of the paddle wheel produces thrust, forward or backward as required. More advanced paddle wheel designs have featured feathering methods that keep each paddle blade oriented closer to vertical while it is in the water; this increases efficiency. The upper part of a paddle wheel is normally enclosed in a paddle box to minimize splashing. Paddle wheels have been superseded by screws, which are a much more efficient form of propulsion. Nevertheless, paddle wheels have two advantages over screws, making them suitable for vessels in shallow rivers and constrained waters: first, they are less likely to be clogged by obstacles and debris; and secondly, when contra-rotating, they allow the vessel to spin around its own vertical axis. Some vessels had a single screw in addition to two paddle wheels, to gain the advantages of both types of propulsion. Pump jet

A pump-jet, hydrojet, water jet, or jet drive uses a ducted propeller (axial-flow pump), centrifugal pump, or mixed flow pump to create a jet of water for propulsion. These incorporate an intake for source water and a nozzle to direct its flow out, generating momentum, and in most cases, employing thrust vectoring to steer the craft. Pump-jets are found on personal watercraft, shallow-draft river boats, and torpedoes. Sail

The purpose of sails is to use wind energy to propel the vessel, sled, board, vehicle or rotor. Depending on the angle of your sail it will be the difference in direction of where your boat is heading and where the wind is going. Dacron was used a lot as a material for sails because of its strong, durable, and easy to maintain. However, when it was being woven into it suffered from weaknesses. Nowadays laminated sails are used to combat sails becoming weak when woven into. Voith-Schneider cyclo-rotor

A Voith Schneider Propeller (VSP) is a practical cyclorotor that provides instant thrust in any direction. There is no need to turn a propulsor. Most ships with VSPs do not need or have a rudder. VSPs are often used in tugboats, drilling vessels, and other watercraft that require unusually good maneuverability. First deployed in the 1930s, Voith-Schneider drives are both reliable and available in large sizes. Caterpillar

An early uncommon means of boat propulsion was the water caterpillar. This moved a series of paddles on chains along the bottom of the boat to propel it over the water and preceded the development of tracked vehicles. The first water caterpillar was developed by Joseph-Philibert Desblanc in 1782 and propelled by a steam engine. In the United States the first water caterpillar was patented in 1839 by William Leavenworth of New York. Oscillating flappers

In 1997, Gregory S. Ketterman patented a propulsion method of oscillating flappers driven by pedals. The Hobie company markets the propulsion method as the "MirageDrive pedal propulsion system" in its kayaks.