[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: low-level laser therapy wound healing pain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: low-level laser therapy wound healing pain]

24. Cureus. 2024 Oct 4;16(10):e70832. doi: 10.7759/cureus.70832. eCollection 2024
 Oct.

The Efficacy of Low-Level Laser Therapy on the Healing of Oral Wounds: A 
Systematic Review.

Gopal L(1), Palwankar P(1), Dhalla N(1).

Author information:
(1)Periodontology, Manav Rachna Dental College, School of Dental Sciences, Manav 
Rachna International Institute of Research and Studies, Faridabad, IND.

Erratum in
    Cureus. 2025 Sep 24;17(9):c319. doi: 10.7759/cureus.c319.

Wound healing is an intricate process involving biological alterations in 
cellular integrity. Low-level laser therapy (LLLT) includes special features 
that speed up tissue regeneration and wound healing. The objective of this 
review is to examine the outcomes of photobiomodulation therapy in terms of 
healing. A search strategy was prepared using MeSH terms and Boolean operators. 
The initial search was limited to randomized controlled trials in the English 
language from January 2014 until January 2024. An electronic search of the 
National Library of Medicine (NLM catalog), Google Scholar, and Scopus was 
conducted using Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Review and 
Meta-Analyses guidelines. The studies used LLLT of various wavelengths and 
parameters on oral wound healing. A total of 54 records were identified through 
database searching. In total, 14 studies were included according to the 
inclusion criteria. Ten studies examined the effects of LLLT in post-surgical 
hard and soft tissue healing in humans. Four animal studies observed the 
efficacy of photobiomodulation on the healing of bone tissue. All investigations 
found a substantial contrast between control and laser groups concerning wound 
epithelialization. When used as an adjunct or a substitute, LLLT has advantages 
in terms of pain and inflammation by boosting acetylcholine esterase synaptic 
activity, beta-endorphin synthesis, and serotonin production. By promoting the 
growth of osteoblasts and fibroblasts, LLLT can enhance the production of new 
bone at an early stage. Hence, further studies and meta-analyses are required 
for a better understanding of the mechanism and to confirm the efficacy with 
different parameters.

Copyright © 2024, Gopal et al.

DOI: 10.7759/cureus.70832
PMCID: PMC11531730
PMID: 39493098

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interest: In compliance with the 
ICMJE uniform disclosure form, all authors declare the following: 
Payment/services info: All authors have declared that no financial support was 
received from any organization for the submitted work. Financial relationships: 
All authors have declared that they have no financial relationships at present 
or within the previous three years with any organizations that might have an 
interest in the submitted work. Other relationships: All authors have declared 
that there are no other relationships or activities that could appear to have 
influenced the submitted work.