[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: herbal medicine drug interaction pharmacokinetics | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: herbal medicine drug interaction pharmacokinetics]

5. Food Chem Toxicol. 2008 Feb;46(2):409-20. doi: 10.1016/j.fct.2007.09.085. Epub
 2007 Sep 18.

Some phytochemical, pharmacological and toxicological properties of ginger 
(Zingiber officinale Roscoe): a review of recent research.

Ali BH(1), Blunden G, Tanira MO, Nemmar A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Clinical Pharmacy, College of Medicine and 
Health Sciences, Sultan Qaboos University, P.O. Box 35, Al Khod 123, Oman. 
alibadreldin@hotmail.com

Ginger (Zingiber officinale Roscoe, Zingiberacae) is a medicinal plant that has 
been widely used in Chinese, Ayurvedic and Tibb-Unani herbal medicines all over 
the world, since antiquity, for a wide array of unrelated ailments that include 
arthritis, rheumatism, sprains, muscular aches, pains, sore throats, cramps, 
constipation, indigestion, vomiting, hypertension, dementia, fever, infectious 
diseases and helminthiasis. Currently, there is a renewed interest in ginger, 
and several scientific investigations aimed at isolation and identification of 
active constituents of ginger, scientific verification of its pharmacological 
actions and of its constituents, and verification of the basis of the use of 
ginger in some of several diseases and conditions. This article aims at 
reviewing the most salient recent reports on these investigations. The main 
pharmacological actions of ginger and compounds isolated therefrom include 
immuno-modulatory, anti-tumorigenic, anti-inflammatory, anti-apoptotic, 
anti-hyperglycemic, anti-lipidemic and anti-emetic actions. Ginger is a strong 
anti-oxidant substance and may either mitigate or prevent generation of free 
radicals. It is considered a safe herbal medicine with only few and 
insignificant adverse/side effects. More studies are required in animals and 
humans on the kinetics of ginger and its constituents and on the effects of 
their consumption over a long period of time.

DOI: 10.1016/j.fct.2007.09.085
PMID: 17950516 [Indexed for MEDLINE]