[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: graphene biomedical applications toxicity review | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: graphene biomedical applications toxicity review]

50. MedComm (2020). 2022 Feb 9;3(1):e118. doi: 10.1002/mco2.118. eCollection 2022
 Mar.

Graphene and graphene oxide with anticancer applications: Challenges and future 
perspectives.

Shafiee A(1), Iravani S(2), Varma RS(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry Cape Breton University Sydney Canada.
(2)Faculty of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical Sciences Isfahan University of Medical 
Sciences Isfahan Iran.
(3)Regional Centre of Advanced Technologies and Materials Czech Advanced 
Technology and Research Institute Palacky University in Olomouc Olomouc Czech 
Republic.

Graphene-based materials have shown immense pertinence for sensing/imaging, 
gene/drug delivery, cancer therapy/diagnosis, and tissue 
engineering/regenerative medicine. Indeed, the large surface area, ease of 
functionalization, high drug loading capacity, and reactive oxygen species 
induction potentials have rendered graphene- (G-) and graphene oxide (GO)-based 
(nano)structures promising candidates for cancer therapy applications. Various 
techniques namely liquid-phase exfoliation, Hummer's method, chemical vapor 
deposition, chemically reduced GO, mechanical cleavage of graphite, arc 
discharge of graphite, and thermal fusion have been deployed for the production 
of G-based materials. Additionally, important criteria such as biocompatibility, 
bio-toxicity, dispersibility, immunological compatibility, and inflammatory 
reactions of G-based structures need to be systematically assessed for 
additional clinical and biomedical appliances. Furthermore, surface properties 
(e.g., lateral dimension, charge, corona influence, surface structure, and 
oxygen content), concentration, detection strategies, and cell types are vital 
for anticancer activities of these structures. Notably, the efficient 
accumulation of anticancer drugs in tumor targets/tissues, controlled cellular 
uptake properties, tumor-targeted drug release behavior, and selective toxicity 
toward the cells are crucial criteria that need to be met for developing future 
anticancer G-based nanosystems. Herein, important challenges and future 
perspectives of cancer therapy using G- and GO-based nanosystems have been 
highlighted, and the recent advancements are deliberated.

© 2022 The Authors. MedComm published by Sichuan International Medical Exchange 
& Promotion Association (SCIMEA) and John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/mco2.118
PMCID: PMC8906468
PMID: 35281783

Conflict of interest statement: Dr. Rajender S. Varma is on the editorial board 
of the journal, MedComm. The other authors declare no conflict of interest and 
no financial support toward this research, and/or for the authorship and 
publication of this article.