[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: plant alkaloid biosynthesis pathway elucidation | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: plant alkaloid biosynthesis pathway elucidation]

97. Phytochemistry. 2006 Feb;67(4):327-37. doi: 10.1016/j.phytochem.2005.12.001. 
Epub 2006 Jan 19.

Tropinone reductases, enzymes at the branch point of tropane alkaloid 
metabolism.

Dräger B(1).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Pharmacy, Martin Luther University Halle-Wittenberg, Hoher Weg 8, 
D-06120 Halle/Saale, Germany. birgit.draeger@pharmazie.uni-halle.de

Two stereospecific oxidoreductases constitute a branch point in tropane alkaloid 
metabolism. Products of tropane metabolism are the alkaloids hyoscyamine, 
scopolamine, cocaine, and polyhydroxylated nortropane alkaloids, the 
calystegines. Both tropinone reductases reduce the precursor tropinone to yield 
either tropine or pseudotropine. In Solanaceae, tropine is incorporated into 
hyoscyamine and scopolamine; pseudotropine is the first specific metabolite on 
the way to the calystegines. Isolation, cloning and heterologous expression of 
both tropinone reductases enabled kinetic characterisation, protein 
crystallisation, and structure elucidation. Stereospecificity of reduction is 
achieved by binding tropinone in the respective enzyme active centre in opposite 
orientation. Immunolocalisation of both enzyme proteins in cultured roots 
revealed a tissue-specific protein accumulation. Metabolite flux through both 
arms of the tropane alkaloid pathway appears to be regulated by the activity of 
both enzymes and by their access to the precursor tropinone. Both tropinone 
reductases are NADPH-dependent short-chain dehydrogenases with amino acid 
sequence similarity of more than 50% suggesting their descent from a common 
ancestor. Putative tropinone reductase sequences annotated in plant genomes 
other that Solanaceae await functional characterisation.

DOI: 10.1016/j.phytochem.2005.12.001
PMID: 16426652 [Indexed for MEDLINE]