[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Complex Circuit Systems | Topic: Microchip Technology | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Microchip Technology — Overview

the execution of a definitive agreement to acquire Supertex, Inc. on February 10, 2014, for $33 per share in cash. The total equity value was $394M and the total enterprise value after excluding Supertex's cash and investments was approximately $148M. The acquisition was expected to expand Microchip Technology's expertise in high voltage analog and mixed signal technologies and reach into the medical, industrial and lighting industries. Microchip Technology announced the completion of the acquisition on April 1, 2014, with 98.4% of the Supertex shares that voted approving the merger. Micrel

Micrel was a global manufacturer of integrated circuits focusing on the networking and consumer markets. Microchip Technology announced the signing of a definitive agreement to acquire Micrel for $14.00 a share on May 7, 2015. The price per share represented a 3% premium over Micrel's closing stock price on May 6, 2015, and a 30% premium at the close on August 7, 2014. The total equity value was about $839M. The completion of the acquisition was announced on August 3, 2015, with 98.5% of Micrel shares that voted approving the merger. Atmel

Atmel was a designer and manufacturer of semiconductors focusing on selling microcontrollers. Microchip agreed to buy Atmel for $3.56bn in January 2016. JPMorgan Chase advised Microchip while Qatalyst Partners advised Atmel. Microsemi

Microsemi manufactured semiconductors and system products for markets including aerospace and defense, communications, data centers, and industrial markets. In May 2018, Microchip acquired Microsemi Corporation. The acquisition price represents a total equity value of about , and a total enterprise value of about , after accounting for Microsemi's cash and investments, net of debt, on its balance sheet at December 31, 2017. Tekron International Limited (New Zealand)
In October 2020, Microchip Technology announced the acquisition of New Zealand-based Tekron International Limited. Founded in 2002, Tekron specialized in manufacturing GPS and precision timing devices. Microchip Technology intends to offer these products to "financial, data center, industrial, and communications clients." Financial and other terms were not publicly disclosed. See also

 ATtiny microcontroller comparison chart
 AVR microcontrollers
 KeeLoq
 MiWi
 MPLAB devices
 MPLAB
 PIC microcontrollers
 PICkit
 UNI/O

References

External links

 
1993 initial public offerings
Companies based in Chandler, Arizona
Computer companies established in 1989
Computer memory companies
Electronics companies established in 1989
Manufacturing companies based in Arizona
Science and technology in Arizona
Semiconductor companies of the United States