[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: Magneto-optical trap | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Magneto-optical trap — Overview

a photon in a random direction and after many absorption-spontaneous emission events, the atom will have, on average, been "pushed" back towards the field-zero of the trap. This trapping process will also occur for an atom moving in the -direction if photons are traveling in the -direction, the only difference being that the excitation will be from to since the magnetic field is negative for . Since the magnetic field gradient near the trap center is uniform, the same phenomenon of trapping and cooling occurs along the  and -directions as well. Mathematically, the radiation pressure force that atoms experience in a MOT is given by:

where  is the damping coefficient,  is the Landé g-factor and  is the Bohr magneton. Doppler cooling

Photons have a momentum given by  (where  is the reduced Planck constant and  the photon wavenumber), which is conserved in all atom-photon interactions. Thus, when an atom absorbs a photon, it is given a momentum kick in the direction of the photon before absorption. By detuning a laser beam to a frequency less than the resonant frequency (also known as red detuning), laser light is only absorbed if the light is frequency up-shifted by the Doppler effect, which occurs whenever the atom is moving towards the laser source. This applies a friction force to the atom whenever it moves towards a laser source. For cooling to occur along all directions, the atom must see this friction force along all three Cartesian axes; this is most easily achieved by illuminating the atom with three orthogonal laser beams, which are then reflected back along the same direction. Magnetic trapping 
Magnetic trapping is created by adding a spatially varying magnetic quadrupole field to the red detuned optical field needed for laser cooling. This causes a Zeeman shift in the magnetic-sensitive mf levels, which increases with the radial distance from the center of the trap. Because of this, as an atom moves away from the center of the trap, the atomic resonance is shifted closer to the frequency of the laser light, and the atom becomes more likely to get a photon kick towards the center of the trap. The direction of the kick is given by the polarization of the light, which is either left or right handed circular, giving different interactions with the different mf levels. The correct polarizations are used so that photons moving towards the center of the trap will be on resonance with the correct shifted atomic energy level, always driving the atom towards the center. Atomic structure necessary for magneto-optical trapping

As a thermal atom at room temperature has many thousands of times the momentum of a single photon, the cooling of an atom must involve many absorption-spontaneous emission cycles, with the atom losing up to ħk of momenta each cycle . Because of this, if an atom is to be laser cooled, it must possess a specific energy level structure known as a closed optical loop, where following an excitation-spontaneous emission event, the atom is always returned to its original state. 85Rubidium, for example, has a closed optical loop between the  state and the  state. Once in the excited state, the atom is forbidden from decaying to any of the  states, which would not conserve parity, and is also forbidden from decaying to the  state, which would require an angular momentum change of −2, which cannot be supplied by a single photon. Many atoms that do not contain closed optical loops can still be laser cooled, however, by using repump lasers which re-excite the population back into the optical loop after it has decayed to a state outside of the cooling cycle. The magneto-optical trapping of rubidium 85, for example, involves cycling on the closed  transition. On excitation, however, the detuning necessary for cooling gives a small, but non-zero overlap with the  state. If an atom is excited to this state, which occurs roughly every thousand cycles, the atom is then free to decay either the , light coupled upper hyperfine state, or the  "dark" lower hyperfine state. If it falls back to the dark state, the atom stops cycling between ground and excited state, and the cooling and trapping of this atom stops. A repump laser which is resonant with the  transition is used to recycle the population back into the optical loop so that cooling can continue. Apparatus

Laser

All magneto-optical traps require at least one trapping laser plus any necessary repumper lasers (see above). These lasers need stability, rather than high power, requiring no more than the saturation intensity, but a linewidth much less than the Doppler width, usually several megahertz. Because of their low cost, compact size and ease of use, laser diodes are used for many of the standard MOT species while the linewidth and stability of these lasers is controlled using servo systems, which stabilises the lasers to an atomic frequency reference by using, for example, saturated absorption spectroscopy and the Pound-Drever-Hall technique to generate a locking signal.