[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: nanoparticle drug delivery tumor targeting cancer | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: nanoparticle drug delivery tumor targeting cancer]

81. Biomaterials. 2025 Jun;317:123089. doi: 10.1016/j.biomaterials.2025.123089.
Epub  2025 Jan 3.

Immune-modulating nanomedicines for enhanced drug delivery to non-small-cell 
lung cancer.

Liu F(1), Howard CB(2), Huda P(3), Fletcher NL(3), Bell CA(3), Blakey I(3), 
Agrez M(4), Thurecht KJ(5).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Advanced Imaging (CAI), Australian Institute for Bioengineering 
and Nanotechnology (AIBN), The University of Queensland, Brisbane, QLD, 4072, 
Australia; ARC Centre of Excellence in Convergent Bio-Nano Science and 
Technology, The University of Queensland, Brisbane, QLD, 4072, Australia; ARC 
Training Centre for Innovation in Biomedical Imaging Technology, University of 
Queensland, QLD, Australia.
(2)Centre for Advanced Imaging (CAI), Australian Institute for Bioengineering 
and Nanotechnology (AIBN), The University of Queensland, Brisbane, QLD, 4072, 
Australia.
(3)Centre for Advanced Imaging (CAI), Australian Institute for Bioengineering 
and Nanotechnology (AIBN), The University of Queensland, Brisbane, QLD, 4072, 
Australia; ARC Centre of Excellence in Convergent Bio-Nano Science and 
Technology, The University of Queensland, Brisbane, QLD, 4072, Australia.
(4)ARC Training Centre for Innovation in Biomedical Imaging Technology, 
University of Queensland, QLD, Australia; InterK Peptide Therapeutics Limited, 
Sydney, Australia.
(5)Centre for Advanced Imaging (CAI), Australian Institute for Bioengineering 
and Nanotechnology (AIBN), The University of Queensland, Brisbane, QLD, 4072, 
Australia; ARC Centre of Excellence in Convergent Bio-Nano Science and 
Technology, The University of Queensland, Brisbane, QLD, 4072, Australia; ARC 
Training Centre for Innovation in Biomedical Imaging Technology, University of 
Queensland, QLD, Australia. Electronic address: k.thurecht@uq.edu.au.

Immune-modulating peptides have shown potential as novel immune-stimulating 
agents which enhance the secretion of anticancer cytokines in vitro. However, 
fast clearance from blood hampers the ability of such peptides to accumulate in 
the tumour and results in limited therapeutic efficacy in animal studies. To 
address the fast blood clearance, this work reports the development and 
validation of a novel polymeric nanoparticle delivery system for the efficient 
localization of an immunomodulating peptide in the tumour microenvironment 
(TME). To identify the optimal polymeric nanoparticle for this study, two types 
of nanoparticles were developed as either branched polymers or micelles that 
have similar chemical functionality but different sizes. The effect of targeting 
the nanomedicine to the tumour-specific antigen, glycoprotein GPC-1, was 
explored using a bispecific antibody (BsAb) that shows an affinity for the cell 
protein (GPC-1) and the nanoparticle. These systems were evaluated for targeting 
efficiency and tumour penetration using tumour spheroids of Lewis Lung Cancer 
(LLC) cells and it was shown that the targeted system significantly enhanced 
cell association compared to the untargeted control with minor differences in 
penetration. The lead micelle-peptide conjugates were identified and using in 
vivo allograft models they were demonstrated to have high delivery efficiency of 
the peptide to tumours, prolonged blood circulation, enhanced tumour 
accumulation and tumour suppression that was associated with immune cell 
recruitment to the tumour.

Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biomaterials.2025.123089
PMID: 39793167 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare the following financial interests/personal relationships which may be 
considered as potential competing interests: Kristofer James Thurecht reports 
financial support was provided by Australian Research Council. Kristofer James 
Thurecht reports financial support was provided by National Health and Medical 
Research Council. Michael Agrez reports a relationship with InterK Peptide 
Therapeutics that includes: board membership and employment. Michael Agrez has 
patent licensed to InterK Peptide Therapeutics. If there are other authors, they 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.