[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: cannabis cannabidiol therapeutic epilepsy pain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: cannabis cannabidiol therapeutic epilepsy pain]

37. Sheng Wu Gong Cheng Xue Bao. 2021 Jun 25;37(6):1968-1985. doi: 
10.13345/j.cjb.200453.

[New targeted compounds-biosynthesis of phytocannabinoids].

[Article in Chinese; Abstract available in Chinese from the publisher]

Gao P(1), Chen Y(1), Ke C(1), Yang X(1), Huang J(1).

Author information:
(1)Engineering Research Center of Industrial Microbiology, Ministry of 
Education, National and Local United Engineering Research Center of Industrial 
Microbiology and Fermentation Technology, College of Life Sciences, Fujian 
Normal University, Fuzhou 350108, Fujian, China.

Phytocannabinoids are bioactive terpenoids that are exclusive to Cannabis sativa 
L. The main pharmacologically active phytocannabinoids are 
Δ9-tetrahydrocannabinol and cannabidiol, both target endogenous cannabinoid 
receptors. Δ9-tetrahydrocannabinol and cannabidiol have extensive therapeutic 
potential due to their participation in many physiological and pathological 
processes in human body by activating the endocannabinoid system. At present, 
Δ9-tetrahydrocannabinol, cannabidiol and their analogues or combination 
preparations are used to treat epilepsy, vomiting in patients with cancer 
chemotherapy, spasticity in multiple sclerosis and relieve neuropathic pain and 
pain in patients with advanced cancer. With the further exploration of the 
application value of Δ9-tetrahydrocannabinol and cannabidiol as well as the 
increasing demand for standardization of pharmaceutical preparations, it is 
imminent to achieve large-scale production of Δ9-tetrahydrocannabinol and 
cannabidiol in the pharmaceutical industry. In this article, pharmacological 
research progress of phytocannabinoids in recent years, biosynthetic pathways of 
phytocannabinoids and the mechanism of key enzymes as well as various product 
development strategies of cannabinoids in pharmaceutical industry are reviewed. 
By exploring the potential of synthetic biology as an alternative strategy for 
the source of phytocannabinoids, it will provide a theoretical basis for the 
research and development of microbial engineering for cannabinoids synthesis, 
and promote the large-scale production of medicinal cannabinoids.

Publisher: 植物大麻素是具有生物活性的一系列萜类化合物的总称，被认为是大麻的专有成分。具有主要药理活性的植物大麻素为Δ9-四氢大麻酚 
(Δ9-tetrahydrocannabinol，Δ9-THC) 和大麻二酚 
(Cannabidiol，CBD)，均以内源性大麻素受体为靶点，通过激活内源性大麻素系统而参与人体许多生理病理过程，具有广泛的治疗潜力。目前，Δ9-THC、CBD及其类似物或组合制剂，已用于治疗癫痫、癌症化疗患者的呕吐、多发性硬化症痉挛和缓解神经性疼痛以及晚期癌症患者的疼痛。随着对Δ9-THC和CBD应用价值的深度发掘和药用标准化制剂需求量增加，Δ9-THC和CBD在制药工业中实现规模化生产迫在眉睫。通过综述近年来植物大麻素的药理学研究进展，植物大麻素生物合成途径和关键酶的作用机制以及制药工业中植物大麻素的生产策略，旨在探索利用合成生物学技术解决植物大麻素药源问题的潜力，为合成大麻素的微生物工程研发提供理论基础，促进药用大麻素的规模化生产。.

DOI: 10.13345/j.cjb.200453
PMID: 34227288 [Indexed for MEDLINE]