[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: traditional Chinese medicine herbs mechanism actio | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: traditional Chinese medicine herbs mechanism action]

47. Microarrays (Basel). 2017 Jan 30;6(1):4. doi: 10.3390/microarrays6010004.

DNA Microarray-Based Screening and  
Characterization of Traditional Chinese Medicine.

Kiyama R(1).

Author information:
(1)Biomedical Research Institute, National Institute of Advanced Industrial 
Science and Technology (AIST), 1-11 Higashi, Tsukuba 305-8566, Ibaraki, Japan. 
kiyama.r@aist.go.jp.

The application of DNA microarray assay (DMA) has entered a new era owing to 
recent innovations in omics technologies. This review summarizes recent 
applications of DMA-based gene expression profiling by focusing on the screening 
and characterizationof traditional Chinese medicine. First, herbs, mushrooms, 
and dietary plants analyzed by DMA along with their effective components and 
their biological/physiological effects are summarized and discussed by examining 
their comprehensive list and a list of representative effective chemicals. 
Second, the mechanisms of action of traditional Chinese medicine are summarized 
by examining the genes and pathways responsible for the action, the cell 
functions involved in the action, and the activities found by DMA (silent 
estrogens). Third, applications of DMA for traditional Chinese medicine are 
discussed by examining reported examples and new protocols for its use in 
quality control. Further innovations in the signaling pathway based evaluation 
of beneficial effects and the assessment of potential risks of traditional 
Chinese medicine are expected, just as are observed in other closely related 
fields, such as the therapeutic, environmental, nutritional, and pharmacological 
fields.

DOI: 10.3390/microarrays6010004
PMCID: PMC5374364
PMID: 28146102

Conflict of interest statement: The author declares no conflict of interest.