[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: The Herbalist — Meyer | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# The Herbalist — Meyer — Overview

crowd set up a great cheering. "He has come out," said little Mr. Perker, greatly excited; the more so as their position did not enable them to see what was going forward. Another cheer, much louder. "He has shaken hands with the men," cried the little agent. Another cheer, far more vehement. "He has patted the babies on the head," said Mr. Perker, trembling with anxiety. A roar of applause that rent the air. "He has kissed one of 'em!" exclaimed the delighted little man. A second roar. "He has kissed another," gasped the excited manager. A third roar. "He's kissing 'em all!" screamed the enthusiastic little gentleman. And hailed by the deafening shouts of the multitude the procession
   moved on. Ladies and gentlemen, according to our modern ideas this account does not
do much to raise Mr. Perker in our estimation; but the best testimonial
to his memory is to be found in Mr. Pickwick's observation when, being at
last free from all his legal difficulties, he proposed to settle up with
his lawyer. "Well, now," said Mr. Pickwick, "let me have a settlement with you."

   "Of the same kind as the last?" inquired Perker, with another laugh,
   for Mr. Pickwick had just been dismissing Messrs. Dodson and Fogg with
   some strong language indeed. "Not exactly," said Mr. Pickwick, drawing out his pocket-book, and
   shaking the little man heartily by the hand; "I only mean a pecuniary
   settlement. You have done me many acts of kindness that I can never
   repay, and have no wish to repay, for I prefer continuing the
   obligation."

   With this preface the two friends dived into some very complicated
   accounts and vouchers, which, having been duly displayed and gone
   through by Perker, were at once discharged by Mr. Pickwick with many
   professions of esteem and friendship. Never was bill of costs so pleasantly discharged, though I know many
lawyers who have won the friendship and esteem of their clients. The next type is that of Messrs. Dodson and Fogg, of Freeman's Court,
Cornhill. The character of the genial partner is best described by one
of his clerks in a conversation overheard by Mr. Pickwick and Sam Weller
while waiting for an interview with this celebrated firm. "There was such a game with Fogg here this morning," said the man in
   the brown coat, "while Jack was upstairs sorting the papers, and you
   two were gone to the stamp-office. Fogg was down here opening the
   letters when that chap as we issued the writ against at Camberwell,
   you know, came in--what's his name again?"

   "Ramsey," said the clerk who had spoken to Mr. Pickwick. "Ah, Ramsey--a precious seedy-looking customer. 'Well, sir,' says old
   Fogg, looking at him very fierce--you know his way--'well, sir, have
   you come to settle?'  'Yes, I have, sir,' said Ramsey, putting his
   hand in his pocket and bringing out the money; 'the debt's two pound
   ten, and the costs three pound five, and here it is, sir,' and he
   sighed like bricks as he lugged out the money, done up in a bit of
   blotting-paper. Old Fogg looked first at the money, and then at him,
   and then he coughed in his rum way, so that I knew something was
   coming. 'You don't know there's a declaration filed, which increases
   the costs materially, I suppose?' said Fogg. 'You don't say that,
   sir,' said Ramsey, starting back; 'the time was only out last night,
   sir.'  'I do say it, though,' said Fogg; 'my clerk's just gone to file
   it. Hasn't Mr. Jackson gone to file that declaration in Bullman and
   Ramsey, Mr. Wicks?'  Of course I said yes, and then Fogg coughed
   again, and looked at Ramsey. 'My God!' said Ramsey; 'and here have I
   nearly driven myself mad, scraping this money together, and all to no
   purpose.'  'None at all,' said Fogg, coolly; 'so you had better go
   back and scrape some more together, and bring it here in time.'  'I
   can't get it, by God!' said Ramsey, striking the desk with his fist. 'Don't bully me, sir,' said Fogg, getting into a passion on purpose. 'I am not bullying you, sir,' said Ramsey. 'You are,' said Fogg; 'get
   out, sir; get out of this office, sir, and come back, sir, when you
   know how to behave yourself.'  Well, Ramsey tried to speak, but Fogg
   wouldn't let him, so he put the money in his pocket and sneaked out. The door was scarcely shut when old Fogg turned round to me, with a
   sweet smile on his face, and drew the declaration out of his coat
   pocket. 'Here, Wicks,' said Fogg, 'take a cab and go down to the
   Temple as quick as you can and file that. The costs are quite safe,
   for he's a steady man with a large family, at a salary of five-and-
   twenty shillings a week; and if he gives us a warrant of attorney, as
   he must in the end, I know his employers will see it paid, so we may
   as well get all we can out of him, Mr. Wicks; it's a Christian act to
   do it, Mr. Wicks, for with his large family and small income he'll be
   all the better for a good lesson against getting into debt--won't he,
   Mr.