[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: Kitchen garden | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Kitchen garden — Overview

clipping the plants to form specific patterns, as in a knot garden. Herb gardens may be purely functional or they may include a blend of functional and ornamental plants. The herbs are usually used to flavour food in cooking, though they may also be used in other ways, such as discouraging pests, providing pleasant scents, or serving medicinal purposes (such as a physic garden), among others. A kitchen garden can be created by planting different herbs in pots or containers, with the added benefit of mobility. Although not all herbs thrive in pots or containers, some herbs do better than others. Mint, a fragrant yet invasive herb, is an example of an herb that is advisable to keep in a container or it will take over the whole garden. Some surviving walled kitchen gardens
These are open to the public. Croome Court
Gibside, NT, some now used as volunteer allotments
Ham House, NT, mostly used for vegetables. Clumber Park

See also
 List of garden types
 The Victorian Kitchen Garden, tv series
 Subsistence agriculture

Notes

References
Uglow, Jenny, A Little History of British Gardening, 2004, Chatto & Windus,

Further reading

 Davies, Jennifer (1987). The Victorian Kitchen Garden. London: BBC Books. . M. D. (1901) "Formation of the Fruit and Kitchen Garden", in: Thompson, Robert The Gardener's Assistant; new edition, revised ... under the direction and general editorship of William Watson. Vol. IV, pp. 1–32. London: Gresham Publishing Company. Shewell-Cooper, W. E. (1947) The A.B.C. of Vegetable Gardening London: English Universities Press (first published 1937). Wilson, C. A. (ed.) (1998). The Country House Kitchen Garden 1600–1950: How Produce Was Grown and How it Was Used. Sutton Publishing. . External links

 Urban Leaf: A useful knowledge base for aspiring gardeners with a lot of information about getting started
 Kitchen Gardeners International: A nonprofit group promoting kitchen gardens worldwide
 Walled Kitchen Gardens Network
 Kitchen Gardens, Science Tracer Bullet, Library of Congress
 The History of Kitchen Gardens in America, Cornell University, Mann Library
 Herb Society of America
 National Herb Garden , United States National Arboretum
 Medicinal Herb Garden, University of Washington, USA

Organic gardening
Types of garden
Garden features