[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: plant alkaloid biosynthesis pathway elucidation | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: plant alkaloid biosynthesis pathway elucidation]

74. J Exp Bot. 2025 Jan 1;76(1):16-34. doi: 10.1093/jxb/erae187.

Navigating Amaryllidaceae alkaloids: bridging gaps and charting biosynthetic 
territories.

Liyanage NS(1), Awwad F(1), Gonçalves Dos Santos KC(1), Jayawardena TU(1), 
Mérindol N(1), Desgagné-Penix I(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, Biochemistry and Physics, Université du Québec à 
Trois-Rivières, Trois-Rivières, QC, Canada.
(2)Plant Biology Research Group, Trois-Rivières, Québec, Canada.

Amaryllidaceae alkaloid (AA) biosynthesis has garnered significant attention in 
recent years, particularly with the commercialization of galanthamine as a 
treatment for the symptoms of Alzheimer's disease. A significant amount of 
research work over the last eight decades has focused on the understanding of AA 
biosynthesis, starting from early radiolabelling studies to recent multi-omics 
analysis with modern biotechnological advancements. Those studies enabled the 
identification of hundreds of metabolites, the characterization of biochemical 
pathways, and an understanding of the environmental stimuli and of the molecular 
regulation of these pharmaceutically and agriculturally important metabolites. 
Despite numerous studies, there remain significant gaps in understanding the 
biosynthesis of AAs in Amaryllidaceae plants. As such, further research is 
needed to fully elucidate the metabolic pathways and facilitate their 
production. This review aims to provide a comprehensive summary of the current 
state of knowledge on AA biosynthesis, from elicitation of expression of 
transcription factors in the cell nucleus to alkaloid transport in the apoplast, 
and to highlight the challenges that need to be overcome for further 
advancement.

© The Author(s) 2024. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
Society for Experimental Biology.

DOI: 10.1093/jxb/erae187
PMCID: PMC11659181
PMID: 38652148 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: No conflict of interest declared.