[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: traditional Chinese medicine herbs mechanism actio | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: traditional Chinese medicine herbs mechanism action]

70. Zhongguo Zhong Yao Za Zhi. 2016 Feb;41(3):377-382. doi:
10.4268/cjcmm20160303.

[Application of drug-target prediction technology in network pharmacology of 
traditional Chinese medicine].

[Article in Chinese]

Wu CW(1), Lu L(1), Liang SW(1), Chen C(1), Wang SM(1).

Author information:
(1)Research Center of Guangdong Province of Traditional Chinese Medicine Quality 
Engineering, Key Laboratory of State Administration of Traditional Chinese 
Medicine for Digitization of Chinese Medicine Evaluation, School of Traditional 
Chinese Medicine, Guangdong Pharmaceutical University, Guangzhou 510006, China.

In recent years, network pharmacology has been developed rapidly, and 
especially, the concept of ″network target″ has brought a new era in the field 
of traditional Chinese medicine (TCM). The integrity and systematicness 
emphasized in network pharmacology comply with the characteristics of holistic 
view and treatment in Chinese medicine. It can provide deeper insights into the 
underlying mechanisms of TCM theories, including the illustration on action 
mechanism of Chinese medicine, selection of pharmacodynamic materials and the 
combination principles of various Chinese herbs, etc. Therefore, this theory is 
more suitable for TCM academic characteristics and practical conditions. The key 
problem in network pharmacology is how to efficiently and quickly identify the 
interactions between large amounts of drugs and target proteins. As an efficient 
and high throughput way, drug-target prediction technology can reduce costs, 
quickly predict the component targets, and provide foundation for the 
application of TCM network pharmacology. In view of the large amount of 
compounds and target databases, different prediction methods and technologies 
have been developed, and used to predict the drug-target interactions. Many 
virtual screening technologies have been successfully applied to network 
pharmacology. Based on different prediction principles, drug-target prediction 
technology can be generally divided into four types： ligand-based prediction, 
receptor-based prediction, machine learning and combined prediction. In this 
paper, we are going to review the prediction methods of drug-target interactions 
and give acomprehensive elaboration of their application in network pharmacology 
of TCM, hoping to provide beneficial references for various Chinese medicine 
researchers.

Copyright© by the Chinese Pharmaceutical Association.

DOI: 10.4268/cjcmm20160303
PMID: 28868850 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors of this article and the planning 
committee members and staff have no relevant financial relationships with 
commercial interests to disclose.