[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: Resonance fluorescence | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Resonance fluorescence — Overview

state around the Bloch sphere from an interferometer. Thus the dynamics of a two-level atom can be accurately modeled by a photon in an interferometer. It is also possible to model as an atom and a field, and it will, in fact, retain more properties of the system such as lamb shift, but the basic dynamics of resonance fluorescence can be modeled as a spin-1/2 particle. Resonance fluorescence in the Weak Field
There are several limits that can be analyzed to make the study of resonance fluorescence easier. The first of these is the approximations associated with the Weak Field Limit, where the square modulus of the Rabi frequency of the field that is coupled to two-level atom is much smaller than the rate of spontaneous emission of the atom. This means that the difference in the population between the excited state of the atom and the ground state of the atom is approximately independent of time. If we also take the limit in which the time period is much larger than the time for spontaneous decay, the coherences of the light can be modeled as 
, where  is the Rabi frequency of the driving field and  is the spontaneous decay rate of the atom. Thus it is clear that when an electric field is applied to the atom, the dipole of the atom oscillates according to driving frequency and not the natural frequency of the atom. If we also look at the positive frequency component of the electric field, 

we can see that the emitted field is the same as the absorbed field other than the difference in direction, resulting in the spectrum of the emitted field being the same as that of the absorbed field. The result is that the two-level atom behaves exactly as a driven oscillator and continues scattering photons so long as the driving field remains coupled to the atom. The weak field approximation is also used in approaching two-time correlation functions. In the weak-field limit, the correlation function  can be calculated much more easily as only the first three terms must be kept. Thus the correlation function becomes 
 as . From the above equation we can see that as  the correlation function will no longer depend on time, but rather that it will depend on . The system will eventually reach a quasi-stationary state as 
It is also clear that there are terms in the equation that go to zero as . These are the result of the Markovian processes of the quantum fluctuations of the system. We see that in the weak field approximation as well as , the coupled system will reach a quasi-steady state where the quantum fluctuations become negligible. Resonance fluorescence in the Strong Field

The Strong Field Limit is the exact opposite limit to the weak field where the square modulus of the Rabi frequency of the electromagnetic field is much larger than the rate of spontaneous emission of the two-level atom. When a strong field is applied to the atom, a single peak is no longer observed in fluorescent light's radiation spectrum. Instead, other peaks begin appearing on either side of the original peak. These are known as side bands. The sidebands are a result of the Rabi oscillations of the field causing a modulation in the dipole moment of the atom. This causes a splitting in the degeneracy of certain eigenstates of the hamiltonian, specifically  and  are split into doublets. This is known as dynamic Stark splitting and is the cause for the Mollow triplet, which is a characteristic energy spectrum found in Resonance fluorescence. An interesting phenomena arises in the Mollow triplet where both of the sideband peaks have a width different than that of the central peak. If the Rabi frequency is allowed to become much larger than the rate of spontaneous decay of the atom, we can see that in the strong field limit  will become . From this equation it is clear where the differences in width of the peaks in the Mollow triplet arise from as the central peak has a width of  and the sideband peaks have a width of  where  is the rate of spontaneous emission for the atom. Unfortunately this cannot be used to calculate a steady state solution as  and  in a steady state solution. Thus the spectrum would vanish in a steady state solution, which is not the actual case. The solution that does allow for a steady state solution must take the form of a two-time correlation function as opposed to the above one-time correlation function. This solution appears as

. Since this correlation function includes the steady state limits of the density matrix, where  and , and the spectrum is nonzero, it is clear to see that the Mollow triplet remains the spectrum for the fluoresced light even in a steady state solution. General two-time correlation functions and spectral density
The study of correlation functions is critical to the study of quantum optics as the Fourier transform of the correlation function is the energy spectral density. Thus the two-time correlation function is a useful tool in the calculation of the energy spectrum for a given system. We take the parameter  to be the difference between the two times in which the function is calculated.