[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: Theoretical and experimental justification for the Schrödinger equation | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Theoretical and experimental justification for the Schrödinger equation — Overview

(assuming linear polarization) is with a similar expression for the y component. The fraction in both components is Momentum density of classical electromagnetic waves The momentum density is given by the Poynting vector For a sinusoidal plane wave traveling in the z direction, the momentum is in the z direction and is related to the energy density: The momentum density has been averaged over a wavelength. Angular momentum density of classical electromagnetic waves

The angular momentum density is

For a sinusoidal plane wave the angular momentum is in the z direction and is given by (going over to complex notation)

where again the density is averaged over a wavelength. Here right and left circularly polarized unit vectors are defined as

and

Unitary operators and energy conservation

A wave can be transformed by, for example, passing through a birefringent crystal or through slits in a diffraction grating. We can define the transformation of the state from the state at time t to the state at time  as

To conserve energy in the wave we require

where  is the adjoint of U, the complex conjugate transpose of the matrix. This implies that a transformation that conserves energy must obey

where  is the identity operator and  is called a unitary operator. The unitary property is necessary to ensure energy conservation in state transformations. Hermitian operators and energy conservation

If  is an infinitesimal real quantity , then the unitary transformation is very close to the identity matrix (the final state is very close to the initial state) and can be written

and the adjoint by

The factor of i is introduced for convenience. With this convention, it will be shown that energy conservation requires H to be a Hermitian operator and that H is related to the energy of a particle. Energy conservation requires

Since  is infinitesimal, which means that  may be neglected with respect to , the last term can be omitted. Further, if H is equal to its
adjoint:

it follows that (for infinitesimal translations in time )

so that, indeed, energy is conserved. Operators that are equal to their adjoints are called Hermitian or self-adjoint. The infinitesimal translation of the polarization state is

Thus, energy conservation requires that infinitesimal transformations of a polarization state occur through the action of a Hermitian operator. While this derivation is classical, the concept of a Hermitian operator generating energy-conserving infinitesimal transformations forms an important basis for quantum mechanics. The derivation of the Schrödinger equation follows directly from this concept. Quantum analogy of classical electrodynamics

The treatment to this point has been classical. However, the quantum mechanical treatment of particles follows along lines formally analogous however, to Maxwell's equations for electrodynamics. The analog of the classical "state vectors"  in the classical description is quantum state vectors in the description of photons. Energy, momentum, and angular momentum of photons

Energy

The early interpretation is based on the experiments of Max Planck and the interpretation of those experiments by Albert Einstein, which was that electromagnetic radiation is composed of irreducible packets of energy, known as photons. The energy of each packet is related to the angular frequency of the wave by the relation

where  is an experimentally determined quantity known as the reduced Planck's constant. If there are  photons in a box of volume , the energy (neglecting zero point energy) in the electromagnetic field is

and the energy density is

The energy of a photon can be related to classical fields through the correspondence principle which states that for a large number of photons, the quantum and classical treatments must agree. Thus, for very large , the quantum energy density must be the same as the classical energy density

The average number of photons in the box in a coherent state is then

Momentum
The correspondence principle also determines the momentum and angular momentum of the photon. For momentum

which implies that the momentum of a photon is
 (or equivalently ). Angular momentum and spin
Similarly for the angular momentum

which implies that the angular momentum of the photon is

the quantum interpretation of this expression is that the photon has a probability of  of having an angular momentum of  and a probability of  of having an angular momentum of . We can therefore think of the angular momentum of the photon being quantized as well as the energy. This has indeed been experimentally verified. Photons have only been observed to have angular momenta of . Spin operator
The spin of the photon is defined as the coefficient of  in the angular momentum calculation. A photon has spin 1 if it is in the  state and -1 if it is in the  state. The spin operator is defined as the outer product

The eigenvectors of the spin operator are  and  with eigenvalues 1 and -1, respectively. The expected value of a spin measurement on a photon is then

An operator S has been associated with an observable quantity, the angular momentum.