[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: optical coherence tomography retinal diagnosis | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: optical coherence tomography retinal diagnosis]

59. BMJ Case Rep. 2025 Sep 9;18(9):e267225. doi: 10.1136/bcr-2025-267225.

Recurrent idiopathic neuroretinitis: the role of optical coherence tomography in 
a challenging diagnosis.

Urzedo ABDL(1), Michels BD(2), Santoro LL(2), Hokazono K(3).

Author information:
(1)Universidade Federal do Parana Hospital de Clinicas, Curitiba, PR, Brazil.
(2)Ophthalmology, Federal University of Parana, Curitiba, Brazil.
(3)Ophthalmology, Federal University of Parana, Curitiba, Brazil 
kenzo_hokazono@hotmail.com.

Neuroretinitis (NR) is characterised by optic disc oedema associated with 
macular exudates in a star-shaped pattern. Several aetiologies of NR have been 
described, with cat-scratch disease being the most common. However, despite 
thorough investigations, one-quarter of cases are classified as idiopathic 
neuroretinitis (INR), in which visual prognosis is generally good. Conversely, 
some patients present with recurrent attacks and no improvement in visual 
function, raising the hypothesis that this presentation represents a different 
subset of INR, simply termed recurrent INR (RINR). Given that the diagnosis of 
RINR is challenging, ancillary exams using techniques such as optical coherence 
tomography (OCT) are usually required. Here, we report a case of RINR in which 
OCT played a key role in early diagnosis and treatment, mainly through the 
measurements of the peripapillary retinal nerve fibre layer and macular ganglion 
cell layer enabling the detection of early neuroaxonal loss and early treatment.

© BMJ Publishing Group Limited 2025. No commercial re-use. See rights and 
permissions. Published by BMJ Group.

DOI: 10.1136/bcr-2025-267225
PMID: 40930735 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.