[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: ethnobotany traditional medicine biological activi | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: ethnobotany traditional medicine biological activity]

23. J Ethnopharmacol. 2008 Oct 28;119(3):686-99. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2008.07.051. 
Epub 2008 Aug 30.

The biological activity and chemistry of the southern African Combretaceae.

Eloff JN(1), Katerere DR, McGaw LJ.

Author information:
(1)Phytomedicine Programme, Department of Paraclinical Sciences, Faculty of 
Veterinary Science, University of Pretoria, Private Bag X04, Onderstepoort 0110, 
South Africa. kobus.eloff@up.ac.za

AIM OF THE STUDY: Members of the Combretaceae family are widely traded in the 
traditional medicine market in southern Africa. The family is also used for 
medicinal purposes in the rest of Africa and Asia for close to 90 medicinal 
indications. Many of these indications are related to treating infections. This 
contribution summarizes work done to date and identifies avenues for future 
research.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Substantial work has already been done on the chemistry 
of especially Combretum and Terminalia species over many years. During the last 
decade we have focussed on bio-assay guided isolation of biologically active 
compounds with the aim of producing new effective antimicrobial products.
RESULTS AND DISCUSSION: Methods developed to facilitate this process and data on 
25 compounds isolated from 7 species are presented. The large majority of 
compounds isolated were known, but the biological activities were not known. In 
practically all cases the antibacterial or antifungal activity of compounds 
isolated were much lower than expected from the activity of the crude extracts. 
It appears that synergism plays a role in antimicrobial activity of plant 
extracts and that the hope of isolating a single compound that can be used as a 
new agent to address antibiotic resistance has been frustrated. By simple 
manipulation such as selective extraction the activity of some crude extracts 
could however, be increased substantially and this offers a new approach to 
address antibiotic resistance via the herbal medicine industry. Practically all 
extracts obtained using intermediate polarity extractants had reasonable to very 
good activity with MICs as low as 40 microg/ml, validating the traditional use 
for infectious diseases. Aqueous extracts however, generally had hardly any 
activity.
CONCLUSIONS: The Combretaceae contains a diversity of antimicrobial compounds. 
Because poor people usually have only water available as extractant, it raises 
the question how plants growing in poor rural communities can be used to treat 
infections more effectively, and what the mechanism of activity of aqueous 
extracts used to treat infections in traditional medicine are.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2008.07.051
PMID: 18805474 [Indexed for MEDLINE]