[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: phytotherapy systematic review clinical evidence | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: phytotherapy systematic review clinical evidence]

25. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2020 May 18;5(5):CD011505. doi: 
10.1002/14651858.CD011505.pub2.

Oral galactagogues (natural therapies or drugs) for increasing breast milk 
production in mothers of non-hospitalised term infants.

Foong SC(1), Tan ML(1), Foong WC(1), Marasco LA(2), Ho JJ(1), Ong JH(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Paediatrics, RCSI & UCD Malaysia Campus (formerly Penang 
Medical College), George Town, Malaysia.
(2)Santa Barbara County Public Health Department, Nutrition 
Services/Breastfeeding Program, Santa Maria, California, USA.
(3)C/O Department of Paediatrics, RCSI & UCD Malaysia Campus (formerly Penang 
Medical College), George Town, Malaysia.

Update of
    doi: 10.1002/14651858.CD011505.

BACKGROUND: Many women express concern about their ability to produce enough 
milk, and insufficient milk is frequently cited as the reason for 
supplementation and early termination of breastfeeding. When addressing this 
concern, it is important first to consider the influence of maternal and 
neonatal health, infant suck, proper latch, and feeding frequency on milk 
production, and that steps be taken to correct or compensate for any 
contributing issues. Oral galactagogues are substances that stimulate milk 
production. They may be pharmacological or non-pharmacological (natural). 
Natural galactagogues are usually botanical or other food agents. The choice 
between pharmacological or natural galactagogues is often influenced by 
familiarity and local customs. Evidence for the possible benefits and harms of 
galactagogues is important for making an informed decision on their use.
OBJECTIVES: To assess the effect of oral galactagogues for increasing milk 
production in non-hospitalised breastfeeding mother-term infant pairs.
SEARCH METHODS: We searched the Cochrane Pregnancy and Childbirth Group's Trials 
Register, ClinicalTrials.gov, the World Health Organization (WHO) International 
Clinical Trials Registry Platform (ICTRP), Health Research and Development 
Network - Phillippines (HERDIN), Natural Products Alert (Napralert), the 
personal reference collection of author LM, and reference lists of retrieved 
studies (4 November 2019).
SELECTION CRITERIA: We included randomised controlled trials (RCTs) and 
quasi-RCTs (including published abstracts) comparing oral galactagogues with 
placebo, no treatment, or another oral galactagogue in mothers breastfeeding 
healthy term infants. We also included cluster-randomised trials but excluded 
cross-over trials.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: We used standard Cochrane Pregnancy and Childbirth 
methods for data collection and analysis. Two to four review authors 
independently selected the studies, assessed the risk of bias, extracted data 
for analysis and checked accuracy. Where necessary, we contacted the study 
authors for clarification.
MAIN RESULTS: Forty-one RCTs involving 3005 mothers and 3006 infants from at 
least 17 countries met the inclusion criteria. Studies were conducted either in 
hospitals immediately postpartum or in the community. There was considerable 
variation in mothers, particularly in parity and whether or not they had 
lactation insufficiency. Infants' ages at commencement of the studies ranged 
from newborn to 6 months. The overall certainty of evidence was low to very low 
because of high risk of biases (mainly due to lack of blinding), substantial 
clinical and statistical heterogeneity, and imprecision of measurements. 
Pharmacological galactagogues Nine studies compared a pharmacological 
galactagogue (domperidone, metoclopramide, sulpiride, thyrotropin-releasing 
hormone) with placebo or no treatment. The primary outcome of proportion of 
mothers who continued breastfeeding at 3, 4 and 6 months was not reported. Only 
one study (metoclopramide) reported on the outcome of infant weight, finding 
little or no difference (mean difference (MD) 23.0 grams, 95% confidence 
interval (CI) -47.71 to 93.71; 1 study, 20 participants; low-certainty 
evidence). Three studies (metoclopramide, domperidone, sulpiride) reported on 
milk volume, finding pharmacological galactagogues may increase milk volume (MD 
63.82 mL, 95% CI 25.91 to 101.72; I² = 34%; 3 studies, 151 participants; 
low-certainty evidence). Subgroup analysis indicates there may be increased milk 
volume with each drug, but with varying CIs. There was limited reporting of 
adverse effects, none of which could be meta-analysed. Where reported, they were 
limited to minor complaints, such as tiredness, nausea, headache and dry mouth 
(very low-certainty evidence). No adverse effects were reported for infants. 
Natural galactagogues Twenty-seven studies compared natural oral galactagogues 
(banana flower, fennel, fenugreek, ginger, ixbut, levant cotton, moringa, palm 
dates, pork knuckle, shatavari, silymarin, torbangun leaves or other natural 
mixtures) with placebo or no treatment. One study (Mother's Milk Tea) reported 
breastfeeding rates at six months with a concluding statement of "no significant 
difference" (no data and no measure of significance provided, 60 participants, 
very low-certainty evidence). Three studies (fennel, fenugreek, moringa, mixed 
botanical tea) reported infant weight but could not be meta-analysed due to 
substantial clinical and statistical heterogeneity (I2 = 60%, 275 participants, 
very low-certainty evidence). Subgroup analysis shows we are very uncertain 
whether fennel or fenugreek improves infant weight, whereas moringa and mixed 
botanical tea may increase infant weight compared to placebo. Thirteen studies 
(Bu Xue Sheng Ru, Chanbao, Cui Ru, banana flower, fenugreek, ginger, moringa, 
fenugreek, ginger and turmeric mix, ixbut, mixed botanical tea, Sheng Ru He Ji, 
silymarin, Xian Tong Ru, palm dates; 962 participants) reported on milk volume, 
but meta-analysis was not possible due to substantial heterogeneity (I2 = 99%). 
The subgroup analysis for each intervention suggested either benefit or little 
or no difference (very low-certainty evidence). There was limited reporting of 
adverse effects, none of which could be meta-analysed. Where reported, they were 
limited to minor complaints such as mothers with urine that smelled like maple 
syrup and urticaria in infants (very low-certainty evidence). Galactagogue 
versus galactagogue Eight studies (Chanbao; Bue Xue Sheng Ru, domperidone, 
moringa, fenugreek, palm dates, torbangun, moloco, Mu Er Wu You, Kun Yuan Tong 
Ru) compared one oral galactagogue with another. We were unable to perform 
meta-analysis because there was only one small study for each match-up, so we do 
not know if one galactagogue is better than another for any outcome.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: Due to extremely limited, very low certainty evidence, we 
do not know whether galactagogues have any effect on proportion of mothers who 
continued breastfeeding at 3, 4 and 6 months. There is low-certainty evidence 
that pharmacological galactagogues may increase milk volume. There is some 
evidence from subgroup analyses that natural galactagogues may benefit infant 
weight and milk volume in mothers with healthy, term infants, but due to 
substantial heterogeneity of the studies, imprecision of measurements and 
incomplete reporting, we are very uncertain about the magnitude of the effect. 
We are also uncertain if one galactagogue performs better than another. With 
limited data on adverse effects, we are uncertain if there are any concerning 
adverse effects with any particular galactagogue; those reported were minor 
complaints. High-quality RCTs on the efficacy and safety of galactagogues are 
urgently needed. A set of core outcomes to standardise infant weight and milk 
volume measurement is also needed, as well as a strong basis for the dose and 
dosage form used.

Copyright © 2020 The Cochrane Collaboration. Published by John Wiley & Sons, 
Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD011505.pub2
PMCID: PMC7388198
PMID: 32421208 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Siew Cheng Foong: none known May Loong Tan: none 
known Wai Cheng Foong: none known Lisa A Marasco is co‐author of a breastfeeding 
book 'Making More Milk: The Breastfeeding Guide to Increasing Your Milk 
Production' (published by McGraw‐Hill) which discusses galactogogues. She also 
speaks on various lactation‐related topics, including galactogogues, providing 
training and continuing education units to lactation consultants and other 
health care providers. Jacqueline J Ho is co‐coordinator of the local governance 
board of the World Alliance for Breastfeeding Action (WABA). A member of her 
family works for a pharmaceutical company. Joo Howe Ong: none known