[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Complex Circuit Systems | Topic: Charlieplexing | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Charlieplexing — Overview

56 bits of information directly from 8 trits (the term for a base-3 character, as the pins are 3-state) of information, as 8 trits fundamentally comprises 8 log23, or about 12.7 bits of information, which falls far short of the 56 bits required to turn all 56 LEDs on or off in any arbitrary combination. Instead, the human eye must be fooled by use of multiplexing. Only one 7-segment display, one set of 7 LEDs can be active at any time. The way this would be done is for the 8 common cathodes of the 8 displays to each get assigned to its own unique pin among the 8 I/O ports. At any time, one and only one of the 8 controlling I/O pins will be actively low, and thus only the 7-segment display with its common cathode connected to that actively low pin can have any of its LEDs on. That is the active 7-segment display. The anodes of the 7 LED segments within the active 7-segment display can then be turned on in any combination by having the other 7 I/O ports either high or in high-impedance mode, in any combination. They are connected to the remaining 7 pins, but through resistors (the common cathode connection is connected to the pin itself, not through a resistor, because otherwise the current through each individual segment would depend on the number of total segments turned on, as they would all have to share a single resistor). But to show a desired number using all 8 digits, only one 7-segment display can be shown at a time, so all 8 must be cycled through separately, and in a 50th of a second for the entire period of 8. Thus the display must be refreshed at 400 Hz for the period-8 cycle through all 8 segments to make the LEDs flash no slower than 50 times per second. This requires constant interruption of whatever additional processing the controller performs, 400 times per second. Peak current
Due to the decreased duty cycle, the current requirement of a Charlieplexed display increases much faster than it would with a traditionally multiplexed display. As the display gets larger, the average current flowing through the LED must be (roughly) constant in order for it to maintain constant brightness, thus requiring the peak current to increase proportionally. This causes a number of issues that limit the practical size of a Charlieplexed display. LEDs often have a maximum peak current rating as well as an average current rating. If the microcontroller code crashes, and a one-LED-at-a-time Charlieplex is being used, the single LED left lit is under much higher stress than it would be in a row-at-a-time Charlieplexed display or in a traditionally multiplexed display, increasing the risk of a failure before the fault is spotted. Requirement for tristate
All the outputs used to drive a Charlieplexed display must be tristate. If the current is low enough to drive the displays directly by the I/O pins of the microcontroller, this is not a problem, but if external tristates must be used, then each tristate will generally require two output lines to control, eliminating most of the advantage of a Charlieplexed display. Since the current from microcontroller pins is typically limited to 20 mA or so, this severely restricts the practical size of a Charlieplexed display. However, it can be done by enabling one segment at a time. Complexity
Diagonally "wired" Charlieplex arrays are very simple to lay out and scan. If used as a multitouch projected capacitance touchscreen (see Figure on left), the first I/O can be set as an output and all the remaining I/Os set as inputs. All these inputs can be sensed simultaneously, if processor resources allow - the input equivalent of Chipiplexing. When output 1 has been "read" by all these inputs, the second I/O can be set as an output and I/Os 1, 3, 4, 5 etc., set as inputs. This sequence is repeated until the whole screen has been scanned. This process is repeated, ad infinitum, for subsequent scans. A very simple, diagonal layout can be used to create a regular, scalable Charlieplexed diode array, where n I/O lines control (n - 1)2 diodes - all of which face the same direction (see diagram on right). This diagram shows n (n - 1) diodes, but the diodes in the last column face alternating directions. Up until now x/y Charlieplexed matrices were significantly more complicated, both in the required PCB layout and microcontroller programming, than prebuilt standard x/y multiplex matrices. This increased design time. Soldering components could also be more time-consuming. It was suggested that a balance between complexity and pin use could be achieved by Charlieplexing several pre-built multiplexed LED arrays together. Forward voltage
When using LEDs with different forward voltages, such as when using different color LEDs, some LEDs can light when not desired. In the diagram above it can be seen that if LED 6 has a 4 V forward voltage, and LEDs 1 and 3 have forward voltages of 2 V or less, they will light when LED 6 is intended to, as their current path is shorter. This issue can easily be avoided by comparing forward voltages of the LEDs used in the matrix and checking for compatibility issues.