[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: phytotherapy systematic review clinical evidence | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: phytotherapy systematic review clinical evidence]

70. Eur J Med Res. 2007 Mar 26;12(3):103-19.

Complementary cancer therapy: a systematic review of prospective clinical trials 
on anthroposophic mistletoe extracts.

Kienle GS(1), Kiene H.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Applied Epistemology and Medical Methodology, Bad Krozingen, 
Germany. gunver.kienle@ifaemm.de

BACKGROUND: Anthroposophic Mistletoe therapy is a widely used complementary 
cancer treatment.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate prospective clinical trials on the effectiveness of 
anthroposophic mistletoe therapy for cancer.
DESIGN: Systematic review.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Search of 9 electronic databases, reference lists and 
extensive expert consultations. Criteria-based assessment of methodological 
study quality.
RESULTS: 16 randomized (RCT) and 9 non-randomized (N-RCT) controlled trials were 
identified that investigated mistletoe treatment of malignant diseases. 
Statistically significant benefit for survival was reported in 8 of 17 trials 
(in 5 of 10 RCTs), for disease-free survival and tumour recurrence in none of 2 
RCTs, for remission of tumour and malignant effusion in 1 RCT and 1 N-RCT of 4 
controlled trials, for quality of life (QoL) in 3 of 5 RCTs, and for QoL and 
reduction of side effects of cytoreductive therapies (chemotherapy, radiation or 
surgery) in 5 of 7 trials (3 of 5 RCTs). Methodological quality of the 
controlled trials differed substantially; some had major limitations while 
others were reasonably well conducted. 12 single-arm cohort studies were 
identified. 5 of 7 studies found substantial tumour remission in various 
cancers, one study reported remission of CIN, and 4 studies remission of 
malignant pleural effusion or ascites. Quality of reporting in cohort studies 
was mostly reasonably good. Mistletoe application was well tolerated.
CONCLUSIONS: Regarding quality of studies and consistency of results, the best 
evidence for efficacy of mistletoe therapy exists for improvement of QoL and 
reduction of side effects of cytotoxic therapies (chemotherapy, radiation). 
Survival benefit has been shown but not beyond critique. Tumour remissions are 
described in cohort studies that investigate the application of high dose or 
local mistletoe extracts. As several reasonably well-conducted studies indicate 
beneficial effects, further properly designed trials should be encouraged to 
investigate clinical efficacy and its possible dependency on the mode of 
application.

PMID: 17507307 [Indexed for MEDLINE]