[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: Brushed DC electric motor | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Brushed DC electric motor — Overview

be prohibitively expensive (and inefficient) to control directly with thyristors. Torque and speed of a DC motor A DC motor's speed and torque characteristics vary according to three different magnetization sources, separately excited field, self-excited field or permanent-field, which are used selectively to control the motor over the mechanical load's range. Self-excited field motors can be series, shunt, or a compound wound connected to the armature. Basic properties
Define
 , counter-electromotive force (V)
 , armature current (A)
 , counter EMF equation constant
 , speed equation constant
 , torque equation constant
 , armature frequency (rpm)
 , motor resistance (Ω)
 , motor torque (Nm)
 , motor input voltage (V)
 , machine's total flux (Wb)
Carter's coefficient (kC) is a parameter that is  often used as a way to estimate the effective slot pitch in the armature of a motor with open (or semi-enclosed) slots. Counter EMF equation
The DC motor's counter emf is proportional to the product of the machine's total flux strength and armature speed:

Voltage balance equation
The DC motor's input voltage must overcome the counter emf as well as the voltage drop created by the armature current across the motor resistance, that is, the combined resistance across the brushes, armature winding and series field winding, if any:

Torque equation
The DC motor's torque is proportional to the product of the armature current and the machine's total flux strength:

where

Speed equation
Since
 and

we have

where

Torque and speed characteristics

Shunt wound motor
With the shunt wound motor's  high-resistance field winding connected in parallel with the armature, Vm, Rm and Ø are constant such that the no load to full load speed regulation is seldom more than 5%. Speed control is achieved three ways:
 Varying the field voltage
 Field weakening
 Variable resistance in the field circuit. Series wound motor

The series motor responds to increased load by slowing down; the current increases and the torque rises in proportional to the square of the current since the same current flows in both the armature and the field windings. If the motor is stalled, the current is limited only by the total resistance of the windings and the torque can be very high, but there is a danger of the windings becoming overheated. Series wound motors were widely used as traction motors in rail transport of every kind, but are being phased out in favour of power inverter-fed AC induction motors. The counter EMF aids the armature resistance to limit the current through the armature. When power is first applied to a motor, the armature does not rotate, the counter EMF is zero and the only factor limiting the armature current is the armature resistance. As the prospective current through the armature is very large, the need arises for an additional resistance in series with the armature to limit the current until the motor rotation can build up the counter EMF. As the motor rotation builds up, the resistance is gradually cut out. The series wound DC motor's most notable characteristic is that its speed is almost entirely dependent on the torque required to drive the load. This suits large inertial loads as motor accelerates from maximum torque, torque reducing gradually as speed increases. As the series motor's speed can be dangerously high, series motors are often geared or direct-connected to the load. Permanent magnet motor
A permanent magnet DC motor is characterized by a linear relationship between stall torque when the torque is maximum with the shaft at standstill and no-load speed with no applied shaft torque and maximum output speed. There is a quadratic power relationship between these two speed-axis points. Protection 
To extend a DC motor's service life, protective devices and motor controllers are used to protect it from mechanical damage, excessive moisture, high dielectric stress and high temperature or thermal overloading. These protective devices sense motor fault conditions and either activate an alarm to notify the operator or automatically de-energize the motor when a faulty condition occurs. For overloaded conditions, motors are protected with thermal overload relays. Bi-metal thermal overload protectors are embedded in the motor's windings and made from two dissimilar metals. They are designed such that the bimetallic strips will bend in opposite directions when a temperature set point is reached to open the control circuit and de-energize the motor. Heaters are external thermal overload protectors connected in series with the motor's windings and mounted in the motor contactor. Solder pot heaters melt in an overload condition, which cause the motor control circuit to de-energize the motor. Bimetallic heaters function the same way as embedded bimetallic protectors. Fuses and circuit breakers are overcurrent or short circuit protectors. Ground fault relays also provide overcurrent protection. They monitor the electric current between the motor's windings and earth system ground.