[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: low-level laser therapy wound healing pain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: low-level laser therapy wound healing pain]

7. J Cosmet Dermatol. 2022 Nov;21(11):5696-5703. doi: 10.1111/jocd.15298. Epub
2022  Sep 19.

Low-level green laser promotes wound healing after carbon dioxide fractional 
laser therapy.

Gong C(1), Lu Y(1), Jia C(1), Xu N(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, Shanghai East Hospital, Tongji University School 
of Medicine, Shanghai, China.

BACKGROUND: The carbon dioxide (CO2 ) fractional laser resurfacing has become 
one of the hottest therapies for dermatoses. However, complications such as skin 
swelling, prolonged erythema, post-inflammatory hyperpigmentation, and scar 
formation remain. Low-level laser (LLL) therapy is accepted to promote skin 
wound healing and regeneration, decrease inflammation and pain, and modulate 
immunoreaction with low-dose laser of different wavelength. 532 nm laser therapy 
is commonly used to remove pigmented spots and to tender skin, but not utilized 
in wound care.
OBJECTIVE: We aimed to determine the efficacy of the low-level 532 nm green 
laser in wound healing after CO2 fractional laser.
METHODS: Six adult male mice (C57BL/6, 8 weeks old) were prepared for animal 
experiments. The dorsum of each mouse was divided into four parts that, 
respectively, received designed treatments, as controlled (group Ctrl), 532 nm 
LLL-treated (group GL), CO2 fractional laser-treated (group FL), and CO2 
fractional laser followed by three times 532 nm LLL-treated (group FG). 
Hematoxylin-eosin staining (H&E), Masson-trichrome staining, CD31 
immunohistochemical staining were performed to evaluate the efficacy of wound 
healing after treated by different irradiations. Western blotting was used to 
detect the expression of related proteins. Mouse skin fibroblasts (MSFs) were 
treated with LLL using a wavelength of 532 nm once. Cellular responses were 
observed and analyzed after 48 hours. Cell viability and migration of different 
groups were assessed by scratch and the Cell Counting Kit-8 (CCK8) assays, 
respectively.
RESULTS: Collagen remodeling and epidermis thickness were significantly enhanced 
in group FG than that in group FL in morphology. Besides, CD31 
immunohistochemical staining indicated prominently increased angiogenesis in 
both groups FL and FG than non-irradiation group. The expression of 
extracellular matrix (ECM)-related protein (Col1, Col3 and MMP1) showed a 
remarkable improvement in wound healing in group FG than that in group FL. 
Irradiated MSFs showed a better migration ability compared with non-irradiated 
controls. LLL enhanced the secretion function of MSFs on Collagen I and III.
CONCLUSIONS: Low-level green laser promotes wound healing after CO2 fractional 
laser by improving the integrity of skin barrier and allowing for scarless 
healing. Therefore, low-level green laser therapy might serve as a sequential 
therapy of invasive laser surgery to ensure a better wound care.

© 2022 Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1111/jocd.15298
PMID: 35947511 [Indexed for MEDLINE]