[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: plant alkaloid biosynthesis pathway elucidation | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: plant alkaloid biosynthesis pathway elucidation]

12. Int J Mol Med. 2021 Oct;48(4):187. doi: 10.3892/ijmm.2021.5020. Epub 2021 Aug
9.

Oxymatrine attenuates oxidized low‑density lipoprotein‑induced HUVEC injury by 
inhibiting NLRP3 inflammasome‑mediated pyroptosis via the activation of the 
SIRT1/Nrf2 signaling pathway.

Jin X(1), Fu W(2), Zhou J(3), Shuai N(3), Yang Y(3), Wang B(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesiology, Affiliated Nanhua Hospital, University of South 
China, Hengyang, Hunan 421001, P.R. China.
(2)Department of Neurology, The First Affiliated Hospital, University of South 
China, Hengyang, Hunan 421001, P.R. China.
(3)Department of Anesthesiology, The First Affiliated Hospital, University of 
South China, Hengyang, Hunan 421001, P.R. China.

Oxymatrine, a quinolizidine alkaloid isolated from the traditional Chinese herb 
Sophora flavescens Aiton, has been demonstrated to exert anti‑inflammatory and 
atherosclerotic effects, but the molecular mechanism has yet to be elucidated. 
Accumulating evidence indicates an important role of NLR family pyrin domain 
containing 3 (NLRP3) inflammasome‑mediated pyroptosis in the pathogenesis of 
atherosclerosis. The present study was undertaken to investigate whether 
oxymatrine attenuates oxidized low‑density lipoprotein (ox‑LDL)‑induced human 
umbilical vein endothelial cell (HUVEC) injury, an in vitro cell model of 
atherosclerosis, by inhibiting NLRP3 inflammasome‑mediated pyroptosis, and 
elucidate the role of the sirtuin (SIRT)1/nuclear factor‑erythroid 2‑related 
factor 2 (Nrf2) signaling pathway in this process. Cell viability and 
cytotoxicity were detected by CCK‑8 assay and a lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) 
assay kit. Cell apoptosis was detected by flow cytometry. Reactive oxygen 
species (ROS) generation was detected using a ROS assay kit. The malondialdehyde 
(MDA) content, mitochondrial membrane potential (MMP) level, superoxide 
dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT) and glutathione peroxidase (GSH‑Px) activities 
were determined using commercial kits. The inflammatory cytokines levels were 
measured by ELISA and protein expression was monitored by western blot analysis. 
The results revealed that oxymatrine alleviated ox‑LDL‑induced cytotoxicity and 
apoptosis. Concurrently, oxymatrine inhibited ox‑LDL‑induced NLRP3 
inflammasome‑mediated pyroptosis in HUVECs, as evidenced by the significant 
decreases in the expression of NLRP3, apoptosis‑associated speck‑like protein 
containing a C‑terminal caspase recruitment domain (ASC), cleaved caspase‑1, 
interleukin (IL)‑1β and IL‑18 in HUVECs. In addition, NLRP3 siRNA transfection 
efficiently suppressed ox‑LDL‑induced pyroptosis and HUVEC injury. Furthermore, 
oxymatrine promoted SIRT1/Nrf2 signaling pathway activation in HUVECs subjected 
to ox‑LDL treatment, and SIRT1 deficiency induced by SIRT1 siRNA transfection 
abolished the protective effect of oxymatrine against ox‑LDL‑induced injury. 
SIRT1 siRNA also mitigated the oxymatrine‑induced decreases in ROS generation 
and MDA content, and the increases in MMP as well as the activities of SOD, CAT 
and GSH‑Px in HUVECs. Moreover, SIRT1 siRNA transfection blocked the inhibitory 
effect of oxymatrine on NLRP3 inflammasome‑mediated pyroptosis in ox‑LDL‑treated 
HUVECs. Collectively, these results indicated that oxymatrine may attenuate 
ox‑LDL‑induced HUVEC injury by inhibiting NLRP3 inflammasome‑mediated pyroptosis 
via activating the SIRT1/Nrf2 signaling pathway.

DOI: 10.3892/ijmm.2021.5020
PMCID: PMC8416146
PMID: 34368883 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.