[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: nanoparticle drug delivery tumor targeting cancer | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: nanoparticle drug delivery tumor targeting cancer]

63. Theranostics. 2025 Jan 2;15(5):1689-1714. doi: 10.7150/thno.103636.
eCollection  2025.

Tumor microenvironment targeted nano-drug delivery systems for multidrug 
resistant tumor therapy.

Shao X(1), Zhao X(1), Wang B(1), Fan J(1), Wang J(1), An H(1).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Molecular Biophysics of Hebei Province, Institute of 
Biophysics, School of Health Sciences and Biomedical Engineering, Hebei 
University of Technology, 300401, Tianjin, PR China.

In recent years, nano-drug delivery systems (Nano-DDS) that target the tumor 
microenvironment (TME) to overcome multidrug resistance (MDR) have become a 
research hotspot in the field of cancer therapy. By precisely targeting the TME 
and regulating its unique pathological features, such as hypoxia, weakly acidic 
pH, and abnormally expressed proteins, etc., these Nano-DDS enable effective 
delivery of therapeutic agents and reversal of MDR. This scientific research 
community is increasing its investment in the development of diversified systems 
and exploring their anti-drug resistance potential. Therefore, it is 
particularly important to conduct a comprehensive review of the research 
progress of TME-targeted Nano-DDS in recent years. After a brief introduction of 
TME and tumor MDR, the design principle and structure of liposomes, polymer 
micelles and inorganic nanocarriers are focused on, and their characteristics as 
TME-targeted nanocarriers are described. It also demonstrates how these systems 
break through the cancer MDR treatment through various targeting mechanisms, 
discusses their synthetic innovation, research results and resistance overcoming 
mechanisms. The review was concluded with deliberations on the key challenges 
and future outlooks of targeting TME Nano-DDS in cancer therapy.

© The author(s).

DOI: 10.7150/thno.103636
PMCID: PMC11780529
PMID: 39897552 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interest exists.