[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: Nickel titanium | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Nickel titanium — Overview

embolization, and intracranial angioplasty. A more recent application of nitinol wire is in female contraception, specifically in intrauterine devices. Damping systems in structural engineering Superelastic nitinol finds a variety of applications in civil structures such as bridges and buildings. One such application is Intelligent Reinforced Concrete (IRC), which incorporates NiTi wires embedded within the concrete. These wires can sense cracks and contract to heal macro-sized cracks. Another application is active tuning of structural natural frequency using nitinol wires to damp vibrations. Other applications and prototypes 
Demonstration model heat engines have been built which use nitinol wire to produce mechanical energy from hot and cold heat sources. A prototype commercial engine developed in the 1970s by engineer Ridgway Banks at Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, was named the Banks Engine. Nitinol is also popular in extremely resilient glasses frames. It is also used in some mechanical watch springs. Boeing engineers successfully flight-tested SMA-actuated morphing chevrons on the Boeing 777-300ER Quiet Technology Demonstrator 2. The Ford Motor Company has registered a US patent for what it calls a "bicycle derailleur apparatus for controlling bicycle speed". Filed on 22 April 2019, the patent depicts a front derailleur for a bicycle, devoid of cables, instead using two nitinol wires to provide the movement needed to shift gears. It can be used as a temperature control system; as it changes shape, it can activate a switch or a variable resistor to control the temperature. It has been used in cell-phone technology as a retractable antenna, or microphone boom, due to its highly flexible and mechanical memory nature. It is used to make certain surgical implants, such as the SmartToe. It is used in some novelty products, such as self-bending spoons which can be used by amateur and stage magicians to demonstrate "psychic" powers or as a practical joke, as the spoon will bend itself when used to stir tea, coffee, or any other warm liquid. It can also be used as wires which are used to locate and mark breast tumours so that the following surgery can be more exact. Due to the high damping capacity of superelastic nitinol, it is also used as a golf club insert. Nickel titanium can be used to make the underwires for underwire bras. It is used in some actuation-bending devices, such as those developed by Finnish technology company Modti Inc. It is used in the neckbands of several headphones due to its superelasticity and durability. It is being increasingly used for wire stemmed fishing floats due to its superelasticity. References

Further reading
 H.R. Chen, ed., Shape Memory Alloys: Manufacture, Properties and Applications, Nova Science Publishers, Inc., 2010, . Y.Y. Chu & L.C. Zhao, eds., Shape Memory Materials and Its [sic] Applications, Trans Tech Publications Ltd., 2002, . D.C. Lagoudas, ed., Shape Memory Alloys, Springer Science+Business Media LLC, 2008, . K. Ōtsuka & C.M. Wayman, eds., Shape Memory Materials, Cambridge University Press, 1998, 
Sai V. Raj, Low Temperature Creep of Hot-extruded Near-stoichiometric NiTi Shape Memory Alloy, National Aeronautics and Space Administration, Glenn Research Center, 2013. Gerald Julien, Nitinol Technologies, Inc Edgewood, Wa. Us patent" 6422010 Manufacturing of Nitinol Parts & Forms
A process of making parts and forms of Type 60 Nitinol having a shape memory effect, comprising: selecting a Type 60 Nitinol. Inventor G, Julien, CEO of Nitinol Technologies, Inc. (Washington State)

External links

Society of Shape Memory and Superelastic Technologies
Nitinol Resource Library
Physical properties of nitinol
Nitinol Technical Resource Library
Literature on Nitinol Wire
Nitinol-Tubing
How NASA Reinvented The Wheel - Shape Memory Alloys

Dental materials
Biomaterials
United States Navy
Materials science
Solid-state chemistry
Smart materials
 
Intermetallics

tr:Şekil Hafızalı Alaşımlar