[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: crystal structure protein drug target binding | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: crystal structure protein drug target binding]

11. Biochim Biophys Acta. 2015 Oct;1854(10 Pt B):1605-16. doi: 
10.1016/j.bbapap.2015.05.004. Epub 2015 May 19.

Assessing protein kinase target similarity: Comparing sequence, structure, and 
cheminformatics approaches.

Gani OA(1), Thakkar B(1), Narayanan D(1), Alam KA(1), Kyomuhendo P(1), 
Rothweiler U(1), Tello-Franco V(1), Engh RA(2).

Author information:
(1)The Norwegian Structural Biology Centre, Department of Chemistry, University 
of Tromsø, Tromsø, Norway.
(2)The Norwegian Structural Biology Centre, Department of Chemistry, University 
of Tromsø, Tromsø, Norway. Electronic address: Richard.Engh@uit.no.

In just over two decades, structure based protein kinase inhibitor discovery has 
grown from trial and error approaches, using individual target structures, to 
structure and data driven approaches that may aim to optimize inhibition 
properties across several targets. This is increasingly enabled by the growing 
availability of potent compounds and kinome-wide binding data. Assessing the 
prospects for adapting known compounds to new therapeutic uses is thus a key 
priority for current drug discovery efforts. Tools that can successfully link 
the diverse information regarding target sequence, structure, and ligand binding 
properties now accompany a transformation of protein kinase inhibitor research, 
away from single, block-buster drug models, and toward "personalized medicine" 
with niche applications and highly specialized research groups. Major hurdles 
for the transformation to data driven drug discovery include mismatches in data 
types, and disparities of methods and molecules used; at the core remains the 
problem that ligand binding energies cannot be predicted precisely from 
individual structures. However, there is a growing body of experimental data for 
increasingly successful focussing of efforts: focussed chemical libraries, drug 
repurposing, polypharmacological design, to name a few. Protein kinase target 
similarity is easily quantified by sequence, and its relevance to ligand design 
includes broad classification by key binding sites, evaluation of resistance 
mutations, and the use of surrogate proteins. Although structural evaluation 
offers more information, the flexibility of protein kinases, and differences 
between the crystal and physiological environments may make the use of crystal 
structures misleading when structures are considered individually. 
Cheminformatics may enable the "calibration" of sequence and crystal structure 
information, with statistical methods able to identify key correlates to 
activity but also here, "the devil is in the details." Examples from specific 
repurposing and polypharmacology applications illustrate these points. This 
article is part of a Special Issue entitled: Inhibitors of Protein Kinases.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbapap.2015.05.004
PMID: 26001898 [Indexed for MEDLINE]