[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: cannabis cannabidiol therapeutic epilepsy pain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: cannabis cannabidiol therapeutic epilepsy pain]

22. Intern Med J. 2020 Nov;50(11):1326-1332. doi: 10.1111/imj.15052.

Cannabis: are there any benefits?

Vickery AW(1)(2)(3), Finch PM(2)(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Emerald Clinics, Perth, Western Australia, Australia.
(2)School of Medicine, Notre Dame University, Notre Dame, Fremantle, Western 
Australia, Australia.
(3)School of Medicine, University of Western Australia, Perth, Western 
Australia, Australia.
(4)Perth Pain Management Centre, Perth, Western Australia, Australia.
(5)Department of Psychology and Exercise Science, Murdoch University, Perth, 
Western Australia, Australia.

Cannabis has been used as a medicine for millennia. Prohibition in the mid-20th 
century precluded early scientific investigation. 'Cannabis' describes three 
separate forms - herbal cannabis, 'hemp' products, pharmaceutical-grade 
regulated cannabinoid-based medical products (CBMP). In Australia, CBMP became 
available for prescription in November 2016. Herbal cannabis with 
Δ9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), which is illegal, and cannabidiol (CBD) in herbal 
extracts, are both unregulated and unreliable sources of cannabinoids. The 
endocannabinoid system (ECS), delineated in the late 1990s, has increased the 
understanding and interest in research for appropriate clinical indications. The 
ubiquitous ECS has homeostatic and anti-inflammatory effects and comprises 
cannabinoid receptors, endocannabinoids and degrading enzymes. Phytocannabinoids 
are partial agonists of the ECS. In pre-clinical studies, THC and CBD produce 
beneficial effects in chronic pain, anxiety, sleep and inflammation. Systematic 
reviews often conflate herbal cannabis and CBMP, confusing the evidence. 
Currently large randomised controlled trials are unlikely to be achieved. Other 
methodologies with quality end-points are required. Rich, valuable high-quality 
real-world evidence for the safe and effective use of CBMP provides an 
opportunity to examine benefits and potential harms. Evidence demonstrates 
benefit of CBMP in multiple sclerosis, chronic neuropathic pain, chemotherapy 
induced nausea and vomiting, resistant paediatric epilepsy, anxiety and 
insomnia. CBMP are well tolerated with few serious adverse events. Additional 
clinical benefits are promising in many other resistant chronic conditions. 
Pharmaceutical grade prescribed CBMP has proven clinical benefits and provides 
another clinical option in the physician's pharmacopeia.

© 2020 Royal Australasian College of Physicians.

DOI: 10.1111/imj.15052
PMID: 33215831 [Indexed for MEDLINE]