[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Propulsion Mechanics | Topic: Future Launchers Preparatory Programme | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Future Launchers Preparatory Programme — Overview

was conceived as the engine for the new upper stage of the Ariane 5, the ESC-B (Etage Supérieur Cryotechnique B/Cryogenic Upper Stage B). It is a re-ignitable expander cycle engine, powered by liquid oxygen and liquid hydrogen. After the failed first flight of its predecessor ESC-A (V-157) in 2002, the development of ESC-B was stopped, but the Vinci development was continued and later transferred to FLPP. In FLPP the technology was matured and extensively tested. In the end of 2008, Vinci was transferred to Ariane 5 ME and after the stop of that programme on to Ariane 6. IXV
The Intermediate eXperimental Vehicle (IXV) is a re-entry demonstrator to test technologies for reusable launchers and spacecraft. The main focus in this project lies on the thermal protection, as well as flight mechanics and control. It was launched by a Vega rocket in February 2015. The re-entry was be controlled via two movable flaps, prior to the deployment of parachutes and a splashdown into the ocean. Current Projects
This section lists notable current projects in FLPP. As FLPP manages a multitude of projects in the main domains of "Propulsion", "Systems and Technologies" and "Avionics and Electronics", the following list includes only some major projects and is not exhaustive. Expander-cycle Technology Integrated Demonstrator
The Expander-cycle Technology Integrated Demonstrator (ETID) is based on an advanced upper stage engine concept partially derived from Vinci technology. It shall incorporate several new technologies to improve the performance of the engine (esp. thrust/weight) and reduce the cost per unit. Some of those technologies could also be beneficial for activities outside of the propulsion sector. As of 2016, the project is in the design and manufacturing phase. Storable Propulsion Technology Demonstrator
The Storable Propulsion Technology Demonstrator shall help develop technologies for a rocket engine in the thrust range between 3 and 8 kN. The technology developed in this project could be used in upper stages of small launchers or applications with similar thrust requirements. The demonstrator uses novel cooling, injector and damping technologies. As of 2016, the demonstrator has successfully performed two test campaigns, performing both ground level as well as vacuum ignitions. Steady state behaviour was tested in a large range of operating points and for durations of up to 110s. In addition, combustion stability and thrust chamber length variations were tested. Solid propulsion
Current efforts concerning solid propulsion focus on the development of technologies for future motor casings and the investigation of the physics of solid rocket motors, especially pressure oscillations. Both of these goals are pursued via demonstrators. The “Pressure Oscillation Demonstrator eXperimental” (POD-X) is dedicated to the investigation of combustion physics and has already made a test firing, yielding valuable information into solid propulsion combustion processes. The “Fibre Reinforced Optimized Rocket Motor Case” (FORC) is dedicated to the development of the dry fibre winding combined with automated dry fibre placement and subsequent resin infusion technology for the manufacturing of large carbon fibre reinforced polymer solid rocket motor cases, including the production of a full-scale and representative test article featuring an outer diameter of 3.5 meters. As of September 2016, multiple sub-scale specimens have already been produced during the process development for FORC. Furthermore, the test article is in the manufacturing phase, with extensive mechanical load and pressure testing scheduled before the end of the year. Hybrid propulsion
Hybrid propulsion activities in FLPP are centred around a demonstrator project in collaboration with Nammo. This demonstrator, which has dimensions suitable for later flight applications, has as of September 2016 performed one hot fire test campaign. A second test campaign is on-going, leading to a design which is planned to be flown on a sounding rocket demonstrator. Cryogenic tank demonstrator
The cryogenic tank demonstrator is a series of demonstrators, which shall be used to develop and test technologies for future lightweight cryogenic tank systems. As of September 2016 a sub-scale demonstrator has been manufactured and tested, with a full-scale version currently in the design phase. The demonstrators can also be used as a test platform for other tank equipment and adjacent structure. Additive Manufacturing (AM)
FLPP is developing additive layer manufacturing technologies - also known as 3D printing - for the application in launch vehicles. These technologies aim to provide faster and cheaper means of small scale production as well as additional design possibilities, leading to lighter more efficient structures. Apart from the application of AM in several other projects, a dedicated project was started to mature the technology and develop applications for future launchers. CFRP technologies
There are several projects within FLPP for advanced technologies to produce a wide range of structures out of carbon-fiber-reinforced polymer (CFRP).