[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: Nature’s design solutions in dental enamel: Uniting high str | Type: OpenAlex-OA | Level: Graduate]

[OpenAlex | Materials Science | Year: 2020 | Citations: 105]

Title: Nature’s design solutions in dental enamel: Uniting high strength and extreme damage resistance

Abstract:
The most important demand of today's high-performance materials is to unite high strength with extreme fracture toughness. The combination of withstanding large forces (strength) and resistance to fracture (toughness), especially preventing catastrophic material failure by cracking, is of utmost importance when it comes to structural applications of these materials. However, these two properties are commonly found to be mutually exclusive: strong materials are brittle and tough materials are soft. In dental enamel, nature has combined both properties with outstanding success - despite a limited number of available constituents. Made up of brittle mineral crystals arranged in a sophisticated hierarchical microstructure, enamel exhibits high stiffness and excellent toughness. Different species exhibit a variety of structural adaptations on varying scales in their dental enamel which optimise not only fracture toughness, but also hardness and abrasion behaviour. Nature's materials still outperform their synthetic counterparts due to these complex structure-property relationships that are not yet fully understood. By analysing structure variations and the underlying mechanical mechanisms systematically, design principles which are the key for the development of advanced synthetic materials uniting high strength and toughness can be formulated. STATEMENT OF SIGNIFICANCE: Dental enamel is a hard protective tissue that combines high strength with an exceptional resistance to catastrophic fracture, properties that in classical materials are commonly found to be mutually exclusive. The biological material is able to outperform its synthetic counterparts due to a sophisticated hierarchical microstructure. Between different species, microstructural adaptations can vary significantly. In this contribution, the different types of dental enamel present in different species are reviewed and connections between microstructure and (mechanical) properties are drawn. By consolidating available information for various species and reviewing it from a materials science point of view, design principles for the development of advanced biomimetic materials uniting high strength and toughness can be formulated.