[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: pharmacognosy medicinal plant active compound isol | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: pharmacognosy medicinal plant active compound isolation]

11. Planta Med. 2004 Aug;70(8):691-705. doi: 10.1055/s-2004-827198.

Natural inhibitors of carcinogenesis.

Kinghorn AD(1), Su BN, Jang DS, Chang LC, Lee D, Gu JQ, Carcache-Blanco EJ, 
Pawlus AD, Lee SK, Park EJ, Cuendet M, Gills JJ, Bhat K, Park HS, Mata-Greenwood 
E, Song LL, Jang M, Pezzuto JM.

Author information:
(1)Program for Collaborative Research in the Pharmaceutical Sciences, Department 
of Medicinal Chemistry and Pharmacognosy, College of Pharmacy, University of 
Illinois at Chicago, Chicago, IL, USA. kinghorn.4@osu.edu

Previous collaborative work by our group has led to the discovery of several 
plant isolates and derivatives with activities in in vivo models of cancer 
chemoprevention, including deguelin, resveratrol, bruceantin, brassinin, 
4'-bromoflavone, and oxomate. Using a panel of in vitro bioassays to monitor 
chromatographic fractionation, a diverse group of plant secondary metabolites 
has been identified as potential cancer chemopreventive agents from mainly 
edible plants. Nearly 50 new compounds have been isolated as bioactive 
principles in one or more in vitro bioassays in work performed over the last 
five years. Included among these new active compounds are alkaloids, flavonoids, 
stilbenoids, and withanolides, as well as a novel stilbenolignan and the first 
representatives of the norwithanolides, which have a 27-carbon atom skeleton. In 
addition, over 100 active compounds of previously known structure have been 
obtained. Based on this large pool of potential cancer chemopreventive 
compounds, structure-activity relationships are discussed in terms of the 
quinone reductase induction ability of flavonoids and withanolides and the 
cyclooxygenase-1 and -2 inhibitory activities of flavanones, flavones and 
stilbenoids. Several of the bioactive compounds were found to be active when 
evaluated in a mouse mammary organ culture assay, when used as a secondary 
discriminator in our work. The compounds (2 S)-abyssinone II, (2 
S)-2',4'-dihydroxy-2"-(1-hydroxy-1-methylethyl)dihydrofuro[2,3- h]-flavanone, 
3'-[gamma-hydroxymethyl-( E)-gamma-methylallyl]-2,4,2',4'-tetrahydroxychalcone 
11'- O-coumarate, isolicoflavonol, isoliquiritigenin, and ixocarpalactone A are 
regarded as promising leads as potential cancer chemopreventive agents.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2004-827198
PMID: 15326546 [Indexed for MEDLINE]