[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: People in Need | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# People in Need — Overview

People in Need (PIN) () is a Czech nonprofit, non-governmental organisation based in Prague, Czech Republic. PIN implements humanitarian relief and long term development projects, educational programmes, and human rights programmes in crisis affected regions internationally. Its director is Šimon Pánek. As of 2022, PIN operates in 33+ countries. In the Czech Republic, PIN runs social integration programmes and provides informative and educational activities. The organisation aims to promote democratic freedom and principles of human solidarity. Since its foundation in 1992, PIN has had a presence in almost 50 countries. Currently, PIN is one of the largest NGOs in Central and Eastern Europe. People in Need is a member of Alliance 2015, Czech Forum for Development Cooperation (FoRS), EU Monitoring Centre (EUMC), Eurostep, CONCORD and VOICE. The vast majority of revenue comes from individual projects. Among its donors are the Czech government, the Humanitarian Aid department of the European Commission, EuropeAid, the United States Agency for International Development, UN agencies, and the people of the Czech Republic. History

People in Need was founded in 1992 by Šimon Pánek, a leading student activist during the Velvet Revolution, and by Jaromír Štětina, a war correspondent who focussed on conflict in the former Soviet Union. PIN began its work as Nadace Lidových novin (The Lidové noviny Foundation, in English Popular Newspapers) and changed its name two years later to Nadace Člověk v tísni při České televizi  (The People in Need Foundation under the auspices of Czech Television). In 1999 PIN was given its current name, People in Need. Šimon Pánek has been the director of PIN since 2009. In order to deliver relief aid and development assistance, PIN works to create a tolerant, open society and mobilises public support. PIN's work is most visible during large humanitarian crisis such as the floods in the Czech Republic in 2002, the 2004 Indian Ocean earthquake (Czech people and companies donated more than 130 million CZK) or the 2010 Haiti earthquake. In Africa and Asia, PIN implements development projects that provide basic human needs and education. In several countries like Belarus, Cuba, Moldova, and Ukraine, PIN has supported individuals and groups who advocate for democratic liberty. In the Czech Republic PIN concentrates on issues such as the assistance of local Romani living on the peripheries of society, the organisation of cultural activities (the most prominent is the One World Film Festival founded by Igor Blaževič), the distribution of information projects and involvement in political activism. PIN has established major projects in Afghanistan (irrigation, local schools), Sri Lanka (since the 2004 earthquake), Pakistan (reconstruction after the 2005 earthquake in Pakistani part of Kashmir), Angola and Ethiopia (construction of schools), Namibia (help for people suffering HIV/AIDS), Romania and Serbia (endorse groups of ethnic Czechs settled there for generations) and several other countries. In 2008, missions were implemented by PIN in Myanmar (relief and recovery operations after cyclone Nargis) and the DR Congo (support for victims of rape and sexual violence). In 2009 the PIN provided assistance to people in Czech Republic a series of devastating floods. People in Need has operated in Venezuela since 2014 and has been trying to motivate people active in society to remain in the country and continue in their work despite the difficult conditions. PIN provides small grants to a number of other NGOs and individuals to support their activities. The focus of the projects varies from support of activists operating in deprived areas to support of lawyers defending imprisoned activists. Programmes and projects

Humanitarian and development aid

People in Need provides humanitarian aid to people affected by war or natural disasters. In recent years PIN has been providing aid to civilians caught up in the armed conflict in the East of Ukraine and the civil war in Syria. PIN provides food, shelter, water, and crisis psychosocial help the vulnerable people in these countries, whilst also helping to repair damaged homes and provide material and equipment for the winter. They also focus on food distribution, restoration of livelihoods, housing provision: ensuring that at least one warm room in a house, home repair, rent grants, and distribution of fuel and water. In Syria, People in Need also provides local farmers with seeds and tools to support their farming activity or, in safer places, provide food vouchers instead of food packages. PIN has provided assistance to people in more than 50 countries across Europe, Asia and Africa, including DR Congo, Ethiopia, Angola, Mongolia, Cambodia and Romania. PIN works to address long-term problems such as the lack of quality education, health care and environmental degradation. Focusing on securing basic living needs (water, health, education, nutrition) and promoting social programmes, local business development, and supporting civil society and good governance.