[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: Carlyle House | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Carlyle House — Overview

The dining room is located next to the music room. It is preserved in its original form and looks as it would have appeared in the 1750s, as there were not many modifications in this area. The color of the wallpaper is blue, the details of the wood were handmade and the color of the walls and room were used to welcome and impress their guests. It also has a fireplace to warm up the room in winter. The portrait of William Carlyle (John Carlyle's father) is located in this room. The main chamber was located on the right side of the house, beside the main door. It belonged at the time to John Carlyle and his wife Sarah Fairfax. The two windows in the bedroom faced the front of the street. It has a portrait of his mother, Rachel Murray Carlyle (painted when she was in her twenties), which was located in front of their bed and above the fireplace. A replica of Sarah Carlyle's wedding dress is exhibited in the room, a close-bodied gown with a petticoat (it used a mechanism to fold it when passing through narrow doors). The wooden floor in front of the fireplace of the bedroom has visible burn marks resulting from the explosions of the air trapped in the charcoal and wood resins: at the time the fire screen had not yet been invented. It is possible that the two lockers in the bedroom were used to lock up their cloth and or their dishes. In front of the main chamber are John Carlyle's studio and the servant stairs that communicate with the ground and second floors. John Carlyle's studio is located in front of his room. It contains his desk, a divan and a copy of the John Carlyle portrait that was sent to his brother. In the portrait his hand is painted inside his waistcoat, this represents a painting technique that started in 1750 called hand-in-waistcoat. The style was used to indicate leadership in a calm and firm manner, and at the same time, it was easier to paint. The room was also used as a dinner table for the family to spare the main dining room. The floor was made of silk and it had rhomboid patterns. At the time, ships arriving to the dock could be seen through the studio windows. The room also contains a fireplace. Second story

John Carlyle's children's bedrooms were located on the second floor. The second-floor hall is located at the center of the house and above the main floor hall and is accessible to the first floor both through the main stairs and through the servant stairs. In the hall many books are displayed, among them an 8th edition of The Gardeners Dictionary by Philip Miller (1768), the 16th edition of The Gardeners Kalendar, also by Philip Miller, aRivernd Volumes II and III of The Poets of Great Britain by John Bell that collect the works of Alexander Pope. George William Carlyle's room was located on the left side of the floor. Sarah Carlyle Fairfax and Anne Carlyle's room was located in front of their brother's. In this bedroom, there is a copy of Sarah Carlyle Fairfax's wedding dress on display. It is probable that Penelope (Penny) took care of Sally and Anne and slept with them during wintertime to share body heat, or slept in front of their bed or in the aisle between the bedrooms. On the right side of the second floor is located a room showing the way the house was originally constructed, which also has a fireplace. In front of it are located the servant stairs and another room. Front yard

At the time a regulation stipulated that no house would use a front yard to maximize the use of space. To solve the obstacle Carlyle bought 2 lots, lot 41 and lot 42, and it became the only house with a wide front yard in the area. At the time, Carlyle was a member of the board of trustees that regulated the use of the land in the city. Back yard

In the 1700s the backyard was located in front of the river, but during the following decades the land was expanded filling the area with old boats and other materials, today is located in front of N. Lee Street and at two blocks of distance from the Potomac river. History

George Washington, a native Virginian who studied mathematics, trigonometry, and land surveying in Lower Church, prepared two maps of what later became the city of Alexandria. The first map was the "Plat of the Land" drawn in 1748: it was a copy of a prior map. When the lots for the new town of Alexandria were auctioned in July 1749, John Carlyle purchased the lots 41 and 42, situated between the Potomac River and the town's market square, ideal for his merchant business. Congress of Alexandria

King George II sent Edward Braddock with two regiments of British regulars (2500 troops)  to America to fight in the French and Indian War that started in 1754, they arrived on 20 February 1755 in Hampton, in the colony of Virginia. In April 1755 they came to Carlyle house, and it became the initial headquarters for Major-General Edward Braddock in the Colony of Virginia. On April 15, 1755, was held the Congress of Alexandria in which Braddock met with five colonial governors, Horatio Sharpe (Maryland's governor ), Robert Dinwiddie (Virginia's governor), James De Lancey (New York's governor), William Shirley (Massachusetts' governor), and Robert Hunter Morris (Pennsylvania's governor).