[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: magnetic nanoparticle hyperthermia cancer therapy | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: magnetic nanoparticle hyperthermia cancer therapy]

86. Nanoscale. 2020 Sep 21;12(35):18342-18355. doi: 10.1039/d0nr00604a. Epub 2020
 Sep 1.

Lissajous scanning magnetic particle imaging as a multifunctional platform for 
magnetic hyperthermia therapy.

Wells J (1), Twamley S , Sekar A , Ludwig A , Paysen H , Kosch O , Wiekhorst F .

Author information:
(1)Physikalisch-Technische Bundesanstalt, Abbestraße 2-12, 10587 Berlin, 
Germany. james.wells@ptb.de.

The use of engineered nanoscale magnetic materials in healthcare and biomedical 
technologies is rapidly growing. Two examples which have recently attracted 
significant attention are magnetic particle imaging (MPI) for biological 
monitoring, and magnetic field hyperthermia (MFH) for cancer therapy. Here for 
the first time, the capability of a Lissajous scanning MPI device to act as a 
standalone platform to support the application of MFH cancer treatment is 
presented. The platform is shown to offer functionalities for nanoparticle 
localization, focused hyperthermia therapy application, and non-invasive tissue 
thermometry in one device. Combined, these capabilities have the potential to 
significantly enhance the accuracy, effectiveness and safety of MFH therapy. 
Measurements of nanoparticle hyperthermia during protracted exposure to the MPI 
scanner's 3D imaging field sequence revealed spatially focused heating, with a 
maximum that is significantly enhanced compared with a simple 1-dimensional 
sinusoidal excitation. The observed spatial heating behavior is qualitatively 
described based on a phenomenological model considering torques exerted in the 
Brownian regime. In vitro cell studies using a human acute monocytic leukemia 
cell line (THP-1) demonstrated strong suppression of both structural integrity 
and metabolic activity within 24 h following a 40 min MFH treatment actuated 
within the Lissajous MPI scanner. Furthermore, reconstructed MPI images of the 
nanoparticles distributed among the cells, and the temperature-sensitivity of 
the MPI imaging signal obtained during treatment are demonstrated. In summary, 
combined Lissajous MPI and MFH technologies are presented; demonstrating for the 
first time their potential for cancer treatment with maximum effectiveness, and 
minimal collateral damage to surrounding tissues.

DOI: 10.1039/d0nr00604a
PMID: 32869808 [Indexed for MEDLINE]