[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Propulsion Mechanics | Topic: Ramjet (Image Comics) | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Ramjet (Image Comics) — Overview

Whereas his sister Olivia wore a wingsuit-type outfit to aid her maneuverability, Gage's natural aptitude at maneuvering makes this unnecessary. However, his ability to effect sudden stops and land properly is far inferior to hers, and thus he wears an armored suit that not only protects him from impact, but enables him to act as a human battering ram, from which his current codename is derived. Maddie Warner's ally, Tank, who built the armor, indicated to Reinhart that it could allow him to smash right through a building. He can reach hypersonic speeds when flying. In his former identity of Scatterbrain, Reinhart was a telepath who could read other people's minds. His power was both voluntary and passive. While he could use his power to deliberately read someone's mind, he could also involuntarily pick up the thoughts of those around him, even when he did not wish it. He could also use his telepathy to remotely track people whose minds he has read, by sifting through the brainwave patterns he could sense, which are apparently unique to each individual. During an electrical attack by the villain Voltage, Reinhart developed the ability to cease the attack by merely thinking about it, and rendered Voltage unconscious. It also briefly knocked Reinhart into semi-consciousness. Reinhart also had the ability to completely wipe out a person's memories, giving them total amnesia, as he did with his half-sister Synergy, though this act left him in a coma for a day or two, and the effect on Synergy (who possesses superhuman invulnerability) was reversed with the impact of a bullet to her head. During his coma, Reinhart discovered that he was also capable of astral projection, and was able to instantly transport his astral self to familiar locations by willing it. He appeared at his high school, where he was attacked by the telepathic villainess Brains. Brains claimed that the location was "her space" and "her private place", and engaged Reinhart in what was depicted as a physical altercation between their astral forms, but when Reinhart responded in kind, he inadvertently transported them to a featureless white location that he speculated was "his place", and was able to manifest his abilities according to his own imagination, multiplying his form several times, and attacking Brains en masse, forcing her to flee the astral plane, and bringing him out of his coma. His telepathy rendered him immune to the illusions created by the villain Doctor Chimera. It also enabled him to affect technology keyed to a specific person's brainwaves, as when he disabled the Jessup-Poole Strong-Suit, which was keyed to its user's brainwaves, though the suit was later modified to prevent Reinhart from doing this. There were some limits on Reinhart's telepathy. He could not read someone's mind if they were unconscious, although he was able to enter Maddie Warner's mind when she was in a coma in order to communicate with her consciousness and pull her out of that state. When Reinhart attempted to telepathically probe the mind of the psychotic Lipinski (aka Slaughterhouse), the experience was so emotionally traumatic for Reinhart that it briefly incapacitated him in the heat of battle. The government superhuman-monitoring agency F.L.A.G. has a manual and a course it requires for its agents who interrogate telepaths like Reinhart, in order to prevent the compromise of sensitive information, but its exact protocols have not been revealed. It does include maintaining a particular distance from telepaths like Reinhar, whose telepathy operates within a certain reception radius, but that radius has not been specified. See also
Supervision

References

External links
Dynamo 5 Home page

Fictional telepaths
Image Comics superheroes