[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: phytotherapy systematic review clinical evidence | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: phytotherapy systematic review clinical evidence]

52. Eur Neuropsychopharmacol. 2011 Dec;21(12):841-60. doi: 
10.1016/j.euroneuro.2011.04.002. Epub 2011 May 23.

Herbal medicine for depression, anxiety and insomnia: a review of 
psychopharmacology and clinical evidence.

Sarris J(1), Panossian A, Schweitzer I, Stough C, Scholey A.

Author information:
(1)The University of Melbourne, Department of Psychiatry, Australia. 
jsarris@unimelb.edu.au

Research in the area of herbal psychopharmacology has increased markedly over 
the past decades. To date however, a comprehensive review of herbal 
antidepressant, anxiolytic and hypnotic psychopharmacology and applications in 
depression, anxiety and insomnia has been absent. A search of MEDLINE (PubMed), 
CINAHL, PsycINFO, and the Cochrane Library databases was conducted (up to 
February 21st 2011) on commonly used psychotropic herbal medicines. A review of 
the literature was conducted to ascertain mechanisms of action of these 
botanicals, in addition to a systematic review of controlled clinical trials for 
treatment of mood, anxiety and sleep disorders, which are common comorbid 
psychiatric disorders. Specific emphasis was given to emerging phytomedicines. 
Analysis of evidence levels was conducted, as were effect sizes (Cohen's d) 
where data were available. Results provided evidence of a range of 
neurochemical, endocrinological, and epigenetic effects for 21 individual 
phytomedicines, which are detailed in this paper. Sixty six controlled studies 
were located involving eleven phytomedicines. Several of these provide a high 
level of evidence, such as Hypericum perforatum for major depression, and Piper 
methysticum for anxiety disorders. Several human clinical trials provide 
preliminary positive evidence of antidepressant effects (Echium amoenum, Crocus 
sativus, and Rhodiola rosea) and anxiolytic activity (Matricaria recutita, 
Ginkgo biloba, Passiflora incanata, E. amoenum, and Scutellaria lateriflora). 
Caution should however be taken when interpreting the results as many studies 
have not been replicated. Several herbal medicines with in vitro and in vivo 
evidence are currently unexplored in human studies, and along with use of 
emerging genetic technologies "herbomics", are areas of potential future 
research.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.euroneuro.2011.04.002
PMID: 21601431 [Indexed for MEDLINE]