[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: cannabis cannabidiol therapeutic epilepsy pain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: cannabis cannabidiol therapeutic epilepsy pain]

100. Isr Med Assoc J. 2017 Feb;19(2):79-84.

Short-Term Efficacy of CBD-Enriched Hemp Oil in Girls with Dysautonomic Syndrome 
after Human Papillomavirus Vaccination.

Palmieri B(1)(2), Laurino C(1)(2), Vadalà M(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of General Surgery and Surgical Specialties, University of Modena 
and Reggio Emilia Medical School, Surgical Clinic, Modena, Italy.
(2)Network of the Second Opinion, Modena (MO), Italy.

BACKGROUND: Cannabidiol (CBD)-based treatments for several diseases, including 
Tourette's syndrome, multiple sclerosis, epilepsy, movement disorders and 
glaucoma, are proving to be beneficial and the scientific clinical background of 
the drug is continuously evolving.
OBJECTIVES: To investigate the short-term effect of CBD-enriched hemp oil for 
relieving symptoms and improving the life quality (QOL) in young girls with 
adverse drug effects (ADRs) following human papillomavirus (HPV) vaccine.
METHODS: In this anecdotal, retrospective, "compassionate-use", observational, 
open-label study, 12 females (age 12-24 years) with severe somatoform and 
dysautonomic syndrome following HPV vaccination were given sublingual CBD-rich 
hemp oil drops, 25 mg/kg per day supplemented by 2-5 mg/ml CBD once a week until 
a maximum dose of 150 mg/ml CBD per day was reached over a 3 month period. 
Patients' quality of life was evaluated using the medical outcome short-form 
health survey questionnaire (SF-36).
RESULTS: Two patients dropped out due to iatrogenic adverse events and another 
two patients stopped the treatment early due to lack of any improvement. SF-36 
showed significant benefits in the physical component score (P < 0.02), vitality 
(P < 0.03) and social role functioning (P < 0.02) after the treatment. The 
administration of hemp oil also significantly reduced body pain according to the 
SF-36 assessment. No significant differences from the start of treatment to 
several months post-treatment were detected in role limitations due to emotional 
reactions (P = 0.02).
CONCLUSIONS: This study demonstrated the safety and tolerability of CBD-rich 
hemp oil and the primary efficacy endpoint. Randomized controlled trials are 
warranted to characterize the safety profile and efficacy of this compound.

PMID: 28457055 [Indexed for MEDLINE]