[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: magnetic nanoparticle hyperthermia cancer therapy | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: magnetic nanoparticle hyperthermia cancer therapy]

24. Cancer Treat Rev. 2016 Nov;50:217-227. doi: 10.1016/j.ctrv.2016.09.016. Epub 
2016 Oct 3.

Magnetic nanoparticle-induced hyperthermia with appropriate payloads: Paul 
Ehrlich's "magic (nano)bullet" for cancer theranostics?

Datta NR(1), Krishnan S(2), Speiser DE(3), Neufeld E(4), Kuster N(5), Bodis 
S(6), Hofmann H(7).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Radiation Oncology, KSA-KSB, Kantonsspital Aarau, Aarau, 
Switzerland. Electronic address: niloyranjan.datta@ksa.ch.
(2)Department of Radiation Oncology, University of Texas M.D. Anderson Cancer 
Center, Houston, TX, USA.
(3)Department of Oncology, Ludwig Cancer Research, Faculty of Biology and 
Medicine, University of Lausanne, Lausanne, Switzerland.
(4)IT'IS Foundation for Research on Information Technologies in Society, Zurich, 
Switzerland.
(5)IT'IS Foundation for Research on Information Technologies in Society, Zurich, 
Switzerland; Swiss Federal Institute of Technologies, Zurich, Switzerland.
(6)Centre for Radiation Oncology, KSA-KSB, Kantonsspital Aarau, Aarau, 
Switzerland; Department of Radiation Oncology, University Hospital Zurich, 
Switzerland.
(7)Laboratory of Powder Technology, Institute of Materials, Ecole Polytechnique 
Fédélrale de Lausanne, Lausanne, Switzerland.

Effective multimodal cancer management requires the optimal integration of 
diagnostic and therapeutic modalities. Radiation therapy, chemotherapy and 
immunotherapy, alone or in combination, are integral parts of various cancer 
treatment protocols. Hyperthermia at 39-45°C is a potent radiosensitiser and has 
been shown to improve therapeutic outcomes in various tumours through its 
synergy with chemotherapy. Gene silencing approaches, using small interfering 
RNAs and microRNAs, are also being explored in clinical trials in oncology. The 
rapid developments in multifunctional nanoparticles provide ample opportunities 
to integrate both diagnostic and therapeutic modalities into a single effective 
cancer "theranostic" vector. Nanoparticles could extravasate passively into the 
tumour tissues in preference to the adjacent normal tissues by capitalizing on 
the enhanced permeability and retention effect. Tumour targeting might be 
further augmented by conjugating tumour-specific peptides and antibodies onto 
the surface of these nanoparticles or by activation through electromagnetic 
radiations, laser or ultrasound. Magnetic nanoparticles can induce hyperthermia 
in the presence of an alternating magnetic field, thereby multifunctionally with 
tumour-specific payloads empowering tumour specific radiotheranostics (for both 
imaging and radiotherapy), chemotherapy drug delivery, immunotherapy and gene 
silencing therapy. Such a (nano)bullet could realise the "magic bullet" 
conceived by Paul Ehrlich more than a century ago. This article discusses the 
various aspects of this "magic (nano)bullet" and the challenges that need to be 
addressed to usher in this new paradigm in modern cancer diagnostics and 
therapeutics.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ctrv.2016.09.016
PMID: 27756009 [Indexed for MEDLINE]