[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: traditional Chinese medicine herbs mechanism actio | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: traditional Chinese medicine herbs mechanism action]

57. Am J Chin Med. 2014;42(3):543-59. doi: 10.1142/S0192415X14500359.

Traditional Chinese medicine: a treasured natural resource of anticancer drug 
research and development.

Wang CY(1), Bai XY, Wang CH.

Author information:
(1)School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Binzhou Medical University, Yantai, 
Shandong 264003, P. R. China.

To discover and develop novel natural compounds, active ingredients, single 
herbs and combination formulas or prescriptions in traditional Chinese medicine 
(TCM) with therapeutic selectivity that can preferentially kill cancer cells and 
inhibit the amplification of cancer without significant toxicity is an important 
area in cancer therapy. A lot of valuable TCMs were applied as alternative or 
complementary medicines in the United States and Europe. But these TCMs, as one 
of the main natural resources, were widely used to research and develop new 
drugs in Asia. In TCMs, some specific herbs, animals, minerals and combination 
formulas were recorded and exploited due to their active ingredients and 
specific natural compounds with antitumor activities. The article focused on the 
antitumor properties of natural compounds and combination formulas or 
prescriptions in TCMs, described its influence on tumor progression, 
angiogenesis, metastasis, and revealed its mechanisms of antitumor and 
inhibitory action. Among the nature compounds, triptolide, berberine, matrine, 
oxymatrine, kurarinone and deoxypodophyllotoxin (DPT) with specific molecular 
structures have been separated, purified, and evaluated their antitumor 
properties in vitro and in vivo. Cancer is a multifactorial and multistep 
disease, so the treatment effect of combination formulas and prescriptions in 
TCMs involving multi-targets and multi-signal pathways on tumor may be superior 
than that of agents targeting a single molecular target alone. Shi Quan Da Bu 
Tang and Yanshu injection, as well known combination formulas and prescriptions 
in TCMs, have shown an excellent therapeutic effect on cancer.

DOI: 10.1142/S0192415X14500359
PMID: 24871650 [Indexed for MEDLINE]