[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: herbal medicine drug interaction pharmacokinetics | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: herbal medicine drug interaction pharmacokinetics]

33. Phytomedicine. 2002;9 Suppl 3:1-33. doi: 10.1078/1433-187x-00210.

Pharmacokinetics and bioavailability of herbal medicinal products.

Bhattaram VA(1), Graefe U, Kohlert C, Veit M, Derendorf H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutics, University of Florida, Gainesville 32610, USA.

The use of herbs for treating various ailments dates back several centuries. 
Usually, herbal medicine has relied on tradition that may or may not be 
supported by empirical data. The belief that natural medicines are much safer 
than synthetic drugs has gained popularity in recent years and led to tremendous 
growth of phytopharmaceutical usage. Market driven information on natural 
products is widespread and has further fostered their use in daily life. In most 
countries there is no universal regulatory system that insures the safety and 
activity of phytopharmaceuticals. Evidence-based verification of the efficacy of 
HMPs (herbal medicinal products, botanicals) is still frequently lacking. 
However, in recent years, data on evaluation of the therapeutic and toxic 
activity of herbal medicinal products became available. The advances in 
analytical technology have led to discovery of many new active constituents and 
an ever-increasing list of putatively active constituents. Establishing the 
pharmacological basis for efficacy of HMPs is a constant challenge. Of 
particular interest is the question of bioavailability to assess to what degree 
and how fast compounds are absorbed after administration of HMPs. Of further 
interest is the elucidation of metabolic pathways (yielding potentially new 
active compounds), and the assessment of elimination routes and their kinetics. 
These data become an important issue to link data from pharmacological assays 
and clinical effects. Of interest are currently also interactions of herbal 
medicinal products with synthetically derived drug products. A better 
understanding of the pharmacokinetics and bioavailability of 
phytopharmaceuticals can also help in designing rational dosage regimens. In 
this review, pharmacokinetic and bioavailability studies that have been 
conducted for some of the more important or widely used phytopharmaceuticals are 
critically evaluated. Furthermore, various drug interactions are discussed which 
show that caution should be exercised when combining phytopharmaceuticals with 
chemically derived active pharmaceutical ingredients.

DOI: 10.1078/1433-187x-00210
PMID: 12222652 [Indexed for MEDLINE]