[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: cannabis cannabidiol therapeutic epilepsy pain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: cannabis cannabidiol therapeutic epilepsy pain]

59. Br J Clin Pharmacol. 2019 Sep;85(9):1888-1900. doi: 10.1111/bcp.14038. Epub
2019  Jul 19.

A systematic review of cannabidiol dosing in clinical populations.

Millar SA(1), Stone NL(1), Bellman ZD(1), Yates AS(2), England TJ(1), O'Sullivan 
SE(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Medical Sciences and Graduate Entry Medicine, School of Medicine, 
University of Nottingham, Royal Derby Hospital, Derby, UK.
(2)Artelo Biosciences, La Jolla, CA, USA.

AIMS: Cannabidiol (CBD) is a cannabis-derived medicinal product with potential 
application in a wide-variety of contexts; however, its effective dose in 
different disease states remains unclear. This review aimed to investigate what 
doses have been applied in clinical populations, in order to understand the 
active range of CBD in a variety of medical contexts.
METHODS: Publications involving administration of CBD alone were collected by 
searching PubMed, EMBASE and ClinicalTrials.gov.
RESULTS: A total of 1038 articles were retrieved, of which 35 studies met 
inclusion criteria covering 13 medical contexts. Twenty-three studies reported a 
significant improvement in primary outcomes (e.g. psychotic symptoms, anxiety, 
seizures), with doses ranging between <1 and 50 mg/kg/d. Plasma concentrations 
were not provided in any publication. CBD was reported as well tolerated and 
epilepsy was the most frequently studied medical condition, with all 11 studies 
demonstrating positive effects of CBD on reducing seizure frequency or severity 
(average 15 mg/kg/d within randomised controlled trials). There was no signal of 
positive activity of CBD in small randomised controlled trials (range n = 6-62) 
assessing diabetes, Crohn's disease, ocular hypertension, fatty liver disease or 
chronic pain. However, low doses (average 2.4 mg/kg/d) were used in these 
studies.
CONCLUSION: This review highlights that CBD has a potential wide range of 
activity in several pathologies. Pharmacokinetic studies as well as conclusive 
phase III trials to elucidate effective plasma concentrations within medical 
contexts are severely lacking and highly encouraged.

© 2019 The Authors. British Journal of Clinical Pharmacology published by John 
Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of British Pharmacological Society.

DOI: 10.1111/bcp.14038
PMCID: PMC6710502
PMID: 31222854 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: A.S.Y. and S.E.O. are paid consultants for 
Artelo Biosciences and the UK Centre for Medicinal Cannabis. All other authors 
declare no competing interests.