[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: traditional Chinese medicine herbs mechanism actio | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: traditional Chinese medicine herbs mechanism action]

69. Brief Bioinform. 2021 Sep 2;22(5):bbab106. doi: 10.1093/bib/bbab106.

Network-based modeling of herb combinations in traditional Chinese medicine.

Wang Y(1), Yang H(2), Chen L(3), Jafari M(1), Tang J(4).

Author information:
(1)University of Helsinki, Finland.
(2)Department of Chemistry, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK.
(3)Department of Mathematics and Statistics, University of Helsinki, Finland.
(4)Faculty of Medicine of the University of Helsinki and Group Leader of Network 
Pharmacology for Precision Medicine group, Finland.

Traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) has been practiced for thousands of years for 
treating human diseases. In comparison to modern medicine, one of the advantages 
of TCM is the principle of herb compatibility, known as TCM formulae. A TCM 
formula usually consists of multiple herbs to achieve the maximum treatment 
effects, where their interactions are believed to elicit the therapeutic 
effects. Despite being a fundamental component of TCM, the rationale of 
combining specific herb combinations remains unclear. In this study, we proposed 
a network-based method to quantify the interactions in herb pairs. We 
constructed a protein-protein interaction network for a given herb pair by 
retrieving the associated ingredients and protein targets, and determined 
multiple network-based distances including the closest, shortest, center, 
kernel, and separation, both at the ingredient and at the target levels. We 
found that the frequently used herb pairs tend to have shorter distances 
compared to random herb pairs, suggesting that a therapeutic herb pair is more 
likely to affect neighboring proteins in the human interactome. Furthermore, we 
found that the center distance determined at the ingredient level improves the 
discrimination of top-frequent herb pairs from random herb pairs, suggesting the 
rationale of considering the topologically important ingredients for inferring 
the mechanisms of action of TCM. Taken together, we have provided a network 
pharmacology framework to quantify the degree of herb interactions, which shall 
help explore the space of herb combinations more effectively to identify the 
synergistic compound interactions based on network topology.

© The Author(s) 2021. Published by Oxford University Press.

DOI: 10.1093/bib/bbab106
PMCID: PMC8425426
PMID: 33834186 [Indexed for MEDLINE]