[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS neurology | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS neurology]

25. Handb Clin Neurol. 2013;116:535-42. doi: 10.1016/B978-0-444-53497-2.00042-5.

Parkinson's disease.

Rothwell JC(1), Edwards MJ.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Neurology, University College London, London, UK. Electronic 
address: j.rothwell@ucl.ac.uk.

There have been a large number of basic research studies of noninvasive brain 
stimulation in Parkinson's disease. Initial work focused on measuring: (1) the 
excitability of corticospinal output with threshold and input-output measures, 
and (2) the effectiveness of intracortical γ-aminobutyric acid (GABA)ergic 
inhibitory systems using short-interval intracortical inhibition (SICI), 
long-interval intracortical inhibition (LICI), and silent period measures. Early 
suggestions of increased excitability and reduced inhibition have been 
progressively modified. There are conflicting reports on changes in 
excitability, silent period, and LICI, and the more consistent reduction in SICI 
is now viewed as a superimposed excitation rather than a primary deficit in a 
GABAergic mechanism. A small number of studies have suggested that premovement 
increases in corticospinal excitability may be prolonged in Parkinson's disease, 
consistent with the suggestion of slower buildup of the motor command to move; 
there are also modifications of interhemispheric connections in patients with 
mirror movements. Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) has also been used to 
explore the involvement of motor cortex and cerebellum in resting and postural 
tremors by examining how readily they can be reset by single TMS pulses over 
each area. It can also probe the effects of deep brain stimulation of motor 
cortex excitability. Finally, new TMS techniques that examine synaptic 
plasticity in motor cortex have shown reduced excitability in patients off 
therapy which is restored when on therapy. Data are also emerging about the 
possible role of cortical plasticity in compensating for gradual loss of 
dopaminergic function prior to onset of clinical symptoms.

© 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/B978-0-444-53497-2.00042-5
PMID: 24112921 [Indexed for MEDLINE]