[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: biomaterial implant osseointegration titanium clin | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: biomaterial implant osseointegration titanium clinical]

76. Int J Oral Maxillofac Implants. 2014 Mar-Apr;29(2):311-20. doi: 
10.11607/jomi.2817.

Comparison of clinical performance of zirconia implants and titanium implants in 
animal models: a systematic review.

Manzano G, Herrero LR, Montero J.

PURPOSE: This study aimed to compare the values of removal torque (RT) and 
bone-implant contact (BIC) reported in different animal studies for zirconia and 
titanium implants.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A systematic review of the literature was performed to 
analyze BIC and RT of animal studies in which both zirconia and titanium dental 
implants were used. To identify the studies to include in this systematic 
review, an exhaustive search of PubMed was performed of animal studies published 
in English with reports on the quantification of the osseointegration of both 
titanium and zirconia implants by means of BIC and/or RT. The results were 
aggregated and analyzed within each of the animal models (pig, rabbit, rat, 
monkey, dog, and sheep).
RESULTS: The selection process resulted in a final sample of 16 studies. In 
general, no significant differences were found between titanium and zirconia. 
The significant differences in terms of BIC and RT reported by the authors were 
attributable to the different surface treatments and microporosities of the 
implant surfaces studied, not to the materials themselves. Only two articles 
reported significantly lower BIC for modified zirconia implants as compared to 
modified titanium implants. Four authors described statistically significant 
differences in terms of RT between zirconia and titanium implants in the 
different animal models, regardless of the surface treatment received by the 
implants.
CONCLUSIONS: Within the limitations of this study, the values for the BIC and RT 
of zirconia implants in most of the studies analyzed did not show statistical 
differences compared with titanium implants. Modified-surface zirconia may have 
potential as a candidate for a successful implant material, although further 
clinical studies are necessary.

DOI: 10.11607/jomi.2817
PMID: 24683556 [Indexed for MEDLINE]