[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Propulsion Mechanics | Topic: Approximate decorrelation and non-isotropic smoothing of tim | Type: OpenAlex-OA | Level: Graduate]

[OpenAlex | Propulsion Engineering | Year: 2007 | Citations: 387]

Title: Approximate decorrelation and non-isotropic smoothing of time-variable GRACE-type gravity field models

Abstract:
We discuss a new method for approximately decorrelating and non-isotropically filtering the monthly gravity fields provided by the gravity recovery and climate experiment (GRACE) twin-satellite mission. The procedure is more efficient than conventional Gaussian-type isotropic filters in reducing stripes and spurious patterns, while retaining the signal magnitudes. One of the problems that users of GRACE level 2 monthly gravity field solutions fight is the effect of increasing noise in higher frequencies. Simply truncating the spherical harmonic solution at low degrees causes the loss of a significant portion of signal, which is not an option if one is interested in geophysical phenomena on a scale of few hundred to few thousand km. The common approach is to filter the published solutions, that is to convolve them with an isotropic kernel that allows an interpretation as smoothed averaging. The downside of this approach is an amplitude bias and the fact that it neither accounts for the variable data density that increases towards the poles where the orbits converge nor for the anisotropic error correlation structure that the solutions exhibit. Here a relatively simple regularization procedure will be outlined, which allows one to take the latter two effects into account, on the basis of published level 2 products. This leads to a series of approximate decorrelation transformations applied to the monthly solutions, which enable a successive smoothing to reduce the noise in the higher frequencies. This smoothing effect may be used to generate solutions that behave, on average over all possible directions, very close to Gaussian-type filtered ones. The localizing and smoothing properties of our non-isotropic kernels are compared with Gaussian kernels in terms of the kernel variance and the resulting amplitude bias for a standard signal. Examples involving real GRACE level 2 fields as well as geophysical models are used to demonstrate the techniques. With the new method, we find that the characteristic striping pattern in the GRACE solutions are much more reduced than Gaussian-filtered solutions of comparable signal amplitude and root mean square.