[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: nanoparticle drug delivery tumor targeting cancer | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: nanoparticle drug delivery tumor targeting cancer]

99. Acta Biomater. 2018 Apr 15;71:351-362. doi: 10.1016/j.actbio.2018.03.013.
Epub  2018 Mar 13.

Targeting tumor hypoxia with stimulus-responsive nanocarriers in overcoming drug 
resistance and monitoring anticancer efficacy.

Xie Z(1), Guo W(1), Guo N(1), Huangfu M(1), Liu H(1), Lin M(1), Xu W(2), Chen 
J(2), Wang T(1), Wei Q(2), Han M(3), Gao J(4).

Author information:
(1)College of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou 310058, PR 
China.
(2)Department of Radiation Oncology, Key Laboratory of Cancer Prevention and 
Intervention, The Second Affiliated Hospital, Zhejiang University, College of 
Medicine, Hangzhou 310058, PR China.
(3)College of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou 310058, PR 
China. Electronic address: hanmin@zju.edu.cn.
(4)College of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou 310058, PR 
China. Electronic address: gaojianqing@zju.edu.cn.

Although existing nanomedicines have focused on the tumor microenvironment with 
the goal of improving the effectiveness of conventional chemotherapy, the 
penetration of a tumor's core still represents a formidable barrier for existing 
drug delivery systems. Therefore, a novel multifunctional hypoxia-induced 
size-shrinkable nanoparticle has been designed to increase the penetration of 
drugs, nucleic acids, or probes into tumors. This cooperative strategy relies on 
three aspects: (i) the responsiveness of nanoparticles to hypoxia, which shrink 
when triggered by low oxygen concentrations; (ii) the core of a nanoparticle 
involves an internal cavity and strong positive charges on the surface to 
deliver both doxorubicin and siRNA; and (iii) a reactive oxygen species (ROS) 
probe is incorporated in the nanoparticle to monitor its preliminary therapeutic 
response in real time, which is expected to realize the enhanced efficacy 
together with the ability to self-monitor the anticancer activity. A more 
effective inhibition of tumor growth was observed in tumor-bearing zebrafish, 
demonstrating the feasibility of this cooperative strategy for in vivo 
applications. This research highlights a promising value in delivering drugs, 
nucleic acids, or probes to a tumor's core for cancer imaging and treatment.
STATEMENT OF SIGNIFICANCE: Hypoxia-induced chemoresistance of tumor cells still 
represents a formidable barrier, as it is difficult for existing drug delivery 
systems to penetrate the tumor hypoxia core. This study involves the 
hypoxia-responsive size-shrinkable nanoparticle co-delivery of DOX and siRNA to 
enhance the penetration of DOX deep within tumors and subsequently disturb 
crucial pathways of cancer development induced by hypoxia and to improve 
sensitization to DOX chemotherapy. Furthermore, the nanopreparation can combine 
the ROS probe as a self-reporting nanopreparation to realize the function of 
real-time feedback efficacy, which has a good application prospect in the 
diagnosis and treatment of cancer.

Copyright © 2018 Acta Materialia Inc. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.actbio.2018.03.013
PMID: 29545193 [Indexed for MEDLINE]