[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Complex Circuit Systems | Topic: Dynamic logic (digital electronics) | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Dynamic logic (digital electronics) — Overview

must gate the latch control inputs as necessary to ensure that a latch output transition does not cause the clock signal level to instantaneously change and cause a clock pulse, either high or low, that is shorter than normal. In particular, although many popular CPUs use dynamic logic, only static cores—CPUs designed with fully static technology—are usable in space satellites owing to their higher radiation hardness. When properly designed, dynamic logic can be over twice as fast as static logic. It uses only the faster N transistors, which improves transistor sizing optimizations. Static logic is slower because it has twice the capacitive loading, higher thresholds, and uses slow P transistors for logic. Dynamic logic can be harder to work with, but it may be the only choice when increased processing speed is needed. Most electronics running at over 2 GHz these days  require dynamic logic, although some manufacturers such as Intel have designed chips using completely static logic to reduce power consumption. Note that reducing power use not only extends the running time with limited power sources such as batteries or solar arrays (as in spacecraft), but it also reduces the thermal design requirements, reducing the size of needed heatsinks, fans, etc., which in turn reduces system weight and cost. In general, dynamic logic greatly increases the number of transistors that are switching at any given time, which increases power consumption over static CMOS. There are several powersaving techniques that can be implemented in a dynamic logic based system. In addition, each rail can convey an arbitrary number of bits, and there are no power-wasting glitches. Power-saving clock gating and asynchronous techniques are much more natural in dynamic logic. Static logic example 
As an example, consider the static logic implementation of a CMOS NAND gate:

This circuit implements the logic function

If A and B are both high, the output will be pulled low. If either A or B are low, the output will be pulled high. At all times, the output is pulled either low or high. Dynamic logic example 
Consider now a dynamic logic implementation of the same logic function:

The dynamic logic circuit requires two phases. The first phase, when Clock is low, is called the setup phase or the precharge phase, and the second phase, when Clock is high, is called the evaluation phase. In the setup phase, the output is driven high unconditionally (no matter the values of the inputs A and B). The capacitor, which represents the load capacitance of this gate, becomes charged. Because the transistor at the bottom is turned off, it is impossible for the output to be driven low during this phase. During the evaluation phase, Clock is high. If A and B are also high, the output will be pulled low. Otherwise, the output stays high (due to the load capacitance). Dynamic logic has a few potential problems that static logic does not. For example, if the clock speed is too slow, the output will decay too quickly to be of use. Also, the output is only valid for part of each clock cycle, so the device connected to it must sample it synchronously when it is valid. Also, when both A and B are high, so that the output is low, the circuit will pump one capacitor load of charge from Vdd to ground for each clock cycle, by first charging and then discharging the capacitor in each clock cycle. This makes the circuit (with its output connected to a high impedance) less efficient than the static version (which theoretically should not allow any current to flow except through the output), and when the A and B inputs are constant and both high, the dynamic NAND gate uses power in proportion to the clock rate, as long as it functions correctly. The power dissipation can be minimized by keeping the load capacitance low. This, in turn, reduces the maximum cycle time, requiring a higher minimum clock frequency; the higher frequency then increases power consumption by the relation mentioned. Therefore, it is impossible to reduce the idle power consumption (when both inputs are high) below a certain limit derived from an equilibrium between clock speed and load capacitance. A popular implementation is domino logic. See also 
 Domino logic
 Sequential logic

References 

General references
  Chapter 9, "Dynamic logic circuits" (chapter 7 in the 2nd edition)
  Chapter 14, "Dynamic logic gates"
  Chapter 7, "Dynamic SOI Design"

External links 
 Introduction to CMOS VLSI Design – Lecture 9: Circuit Families – David Harris' lecture notes on the subject. Logic families