[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: Sisymbrium irio | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Sisymbrium irio — Overview

is currently considered to be established but not invasive. Habitat and ecology The Database of Insects and their Food Plants lists just two species that make use of London rocket: Ceutorhynchus hirtulus Germar is a weevil which lives in the soil and creates stem galls for it larvae, whereas Cabbage looper moth larvae eat the leaves of this and many other species in the cabbage family. History
The first published record of this species in Britain was in Christopher Merret's Pinax Rerum Naturalium Britannicarum in 1666, where he described Irio laevis as being "ubique fere in suburbiis Lond. supra muros et juxta fossas" (almost everywhere in the suburbs of London on walls and near ditches). It had, however, been noticed at least a decade earlier: William How (1620-1656) had annotated his own copy of his book Phytologia Britannica (1650) with the comment "near White Chappel east from Aldgate, London"; a discovery he attributed to John Goodyer. The term "London" in the common name "London rocket" allegedly comes from its abundance after the Great Fire of London in 1666. Robert Morison, the physician to King Charles II, attributed their appearance to spontaneous generation when he observed that “these hot bitter plants with four petals and pods were produced spontaneously without seed by the ashes of the fire mixed with salt and lime.”
 
In contrast, Dr E J Salisbury, in his study of the bombsites of London after the Blitz in 1940, "failed to find a single specimen, nor has any other reliable observer reported it." This is consistent with its apparent appearance, disappearance, and reappearance described above at "Distribution and Status."

The term "Rocket" in the common name appears to be derived from the old Latin term "eruca" applied to several loosely-related plants in the cabbage family. [Mabey, Richard. "Weeds: In Defense of Nature's Most Unloved Plants." Chapter 10. HarperCollins Publishers, 2010]

This species is considered a weed in the Southwestern United States and other regions where it has been introduced. Uses
In desert regions of Arabia and Egypt, London rocket is considered an important source of fodder for livestock. The leaves, seeds, and flowers are edible to humans, with a spicy flavor similar to cultivated rocket. London rocket is used in the Middle East to treat coughs and chest congestion, to relieve rheumatism, to detoxify the liver and spleen, and to reduce swelling and clean wounds. The Bedouin of the Sinai Peninsula and the Negev desert reportedly used the leaf of London rocket as a tobacco substitute, and a recent study of the alkaloid content of desert-grown plants in Iraq found a high concentration of nicotine in extracts of the aerial parts of this plant. The cured pods can be placed in a basket with live coals and shaken until the pods are parched, then ground into meal and made into soup or stew. Notes

References
  
 Ray, Jarren et al. (2005) "Moisture and Temperature Requirements for London Rocket (Sisymbrium irio) Emergence" Weed Science 53(2): pp. 187–192
 

irio
Plants described in 1753
Taxa named by Carl Linnaeus
Flora of Malta