[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: MRI physics image quality artifact reduction | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: MRI physics image quality artifact reduction]

89. Magn Reson Med. 2013 Apr;69(4):1094-103. doi: 10.1002/mrm.24348. Epub 2012
Jul  3.

Adaptive retrospective correction of motion artifacts in cranial MRI with 
multicoil three-dimensional radial acquisitions.

Anderson AG 3rd(1), Velikina J, Block W, Wieben O, Samsonov A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Physics, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, 
Wisconsin 53705, USA. samsonov@wisc.edu

Despite reduction in imaging times through improved hardware and rapid 
acquisition schemes, motion artifacts can compromise image quality in magnetic 
resonance imaging, especially in three-dimensional imaging with its prolonged 
scan durations. Direct extension of most state-of-the-art two-dimensional rigid 
body motion compensation techniques to the three-dimensional case is often 
challenging or impractical due to a significant increase in sampling 
requirements. This article introduces a novel motion correction technique that 
is capable of restoring image quality in motion corrupted two-dimensional and 
three-dimensional radial acquisitions without a priori assumptions about when 
motion occurs. The navigating properties of radial acquisitions-corroborated by 
multiple receiver coils-are exploited to detect actual instances of motion. 
Pseudorandom projection ordering provides flexibility of reconstructing 
navigator images from the obtained motion-free variable-width subsets for 
subsequent estimation of rigid body motion parameters by coregistration. The 
proposed approach does not require any additional navigators or external motion 
estimation schemes. The capabilities and limitations of the method are described 
and demonstrated through simulations and representative volunteer cranial 
acquisitions.

Copyright © 2012 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/mrm.24348
PMCID: PMC4226397
PMID: 22760728 [Indexed for MEDLINE]