[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: low-level laser therapy wound healing pain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: low-level laser therapy wound healing pain]

41. JBI Evid Synth. 2021 Nov;19(11):3121-3128. doi: 10.11124/JBIES-20-00428.

Effectiveness of low-level laser therapy compared with other conventional 
therapies on wound healing and pain reduction in patients with median 
sternotomy: a systematic review protocol.

Murugan M(1), Regan R(2), Arumugam A(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Basic Physiotherapy Subjects Department, PSG College of Physiotherapy, 
Coimbatore, Tamilnadu, India.
(2)Clinical Physiotherapy Subjects Department, PSG College of Physiotherapy, 
Coimbatore, Tamilnadu, India.
(3)Department of Physiotherapy, College of Health Sciences, University of 
Sharjah, Sharjah, United Arab Emirates.
(4)Sustainable Engineering Asset Management Research Group, RISE-Research 
Institute of Sciences and Engineering, University of Sharjah, Sharjah, United 
Arab Emirates.

OBJECTIVE: The objective of this review is to evaluate the effect of low-level 
laser therapy, used alone or in combination with conventional therapies, on 
wound healing and pain reduction in patients with median sternotomy.
INTRODUCTION: In the previous two decades, the incidence of postsurgical 
complications following median sternotomy has remained reasonably unchanged. 
Owing to the shortcomings of conventional therapies in wound healing, 
alternative solutions are sought. Photobiomodulation with low-level laser 
therapy has become a preferred therapy for augmenting tissue repair and 
stimulating immediate analgesia by releasing local neurotransmitters and 
endorphins, or through anti-inflammatory effects.
INCLUSION CRITERIA: This review will include only randomized controlled trials 
that studied the effects of low-level laser therapy used as a monotherapy or in 
combination with other conventional therapies in promoting wound healing and 
reducing pain in adult patients with median sternotomy. Comparators may include 
other forms of photobiomodulation therapy/phototherapy, other conventional 
therapies, control, or placebo/sham interventions.
METHODS: Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials, MEDLINE (PubMed), 
CINAHL (EBSCO), AMED (EBSCO), Physiotherapy Evidence Database (PEDro), and 
Scopus will be searched from database inception to the present date. Two 
reviewers will independently screen, extract data, and examine methodological 
quality of the eligible studies using the JBI critical appraisal checklist for 
randomized controlled trials. A meta-analysis will be done if adequate data with 
homogeneous population, interventions, and outcomes are available. The overall 
level of evidence will be synthesized using the Grading of Recommendations, 
Assessment, Development and Evaluation criteria.
SYSTEMATIC REVIEW REGISTRATION NUMBER: PROSPERO CRD42020203011.

Copyright © 2021 JBI.

DOI: 10.11124/JBIES-20-00428
PMID: 34183590 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.