[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Propulsion Mechanics | Topic: COSMO-SkyMed | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# COSMO-SkyMed — Overview

any two polarizations (HH, VV, VH, HV), and it is non-coherent, as it is collected in "pulse groups" that alternate from one polarization to the other. There are two ScanSAR modes: WIDEREGION, which provides resolution data over a swath of , and HUGEREGION, which provides resolution data over a swath of . The system is sized to collect up to 450 images per satellite per day. Commercialization 
e-GEOS, S.p.A., a joint venture between European spaceflight services company Telespazio (80%) and the Italian Space Agency (ASI) (20%), has the exclusive worldwide commercial rights to sell COSMO-SkyMed data and products. Flares 
The COSMO-SkyMed satellites are lesser-known deliverers of satellite flares, sometimes approaching magnitude −3. Flares come mainly from SAR-panels of the satellites. Although overshadowed by the Iridium satellites, the flares are often long-lasting, with the satellites traversing much of the sky at brighter-than-average magnitudes. COSMO-SkyMed second generation (CSG) 
To replace the first COSMO-SkyMed constellation, the Italian Space Agency is developing the COSMO-SkyMed second generation constellation. The 2nd generation constellation has the same function of radar-based Earth observation with particular focus on the Mediterranean area as the 1st generation. Like the 1st generation, the 2nd generation also consists of 4 satellites, CSG-1, CSG-2, CSG-3 and CSG-4. The satellites are improved versions of the first generation satellites. Also the radar payload CSG-SAR (COSMO-SkyMed Second Generation Synthetic Aperture Radar) is an improved version of the first generation X-band SAR payload. Furthermore, the 2nd generation satellites will operate in the same orbit (indeed, in the same orbital plane) as the first generation satellites. The 2nd generation satellites slightly outweigh the first generation satellites at  of mass. The contract for building two satellites was signed in September 2015. In December 2020, another two satellites were ordered. The satellites are built by Thales Alenia Space (the successor company of Alenia Spazio). They have a planned lifetime of 7 years. CSG-1 was launched on 18 December 2019 by Soyuz ST-A from Centre spatial Guyanais (CSG). CSG-2 was launched on 31 January 2022 by Falcon 9 Block 5 from Space Launch Complex 40 at Cape Canaveral Space Force Station, while the CSG-3 satellite is scheduled to be launched in 2024 on a Vega-C launch vehicle. List of launches

See also 

 SAOCOM, two Argentine SAR-satellites that are part of the SIASGE constellation alongside COSMO-SkyMed. SAR Lupe, a system of five military SAR-satellites of Germany. References

External links 

 COSMO-SkyMed Web Site
 COSMO-SkyMed Products 
 INNOVA Consorzio per l'Informatica e la Telematica s.r.l. – Italian SME with specific know-how and expertise with COSMO-SkyMed's HDF5 format
 Remote Monitoring of Migrants Vessels in the Mediterranean Sea (CeMiSS)

Spacecraft launched in 2019
Spacecraft launched in 2022
2019 in Italy
Satellites of Italy
Synthetic aperture radar satellites
Satellite constellations
Military equipment introduced in the 2000s
Satellites
Earth imaging satellites