[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: laser surgery LASIK corneal refractive outcome | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: laser surgery LASIK corneal refractive outcome]

93. J Cataract Refract Surg. 2001 Jan;27(1):31-49. doi: 
10.1016/s0886-3350(00)00798-7.

Astigmatism analysis by the Alpins method.

Alpins N(1).

Author information:
(1)alpins@newvisionsclinics.com.au

PURPOSE: To determine the effectiveness of correcting astigmatism by laser 
refractive surgery by a vectorial astigmatism outcome analysis that uses 3 
fundamental vectors: target induced astigmatism vector (TIA), surgically induced 
astigmatism vector, and difference vector, as described by the Alpins method.
METHODS: A data set of 100 eyes that had laser in situ keratomileusis to correct 
myopia and astigmatism (minimum preoperative refractive astigmatism 0.75 
diopter) was analyzed. The data included preoperative and 3 month postoperative 
values for manifest refraction and standard keratometry. Using the ASSORT or 
VectrAK analysis program, individual and aggregate data analyses were performed 
using simple, polar, and vector analysis of astigmatism and an analysis of 
spherical change. Statistical analysis of the results was used for means and 
confidence limits, as well as to examine the differences between corneal and 
refractive astigmatism outcomes.
RESULTS: At an individual patient level, the angle of error was found to be 
significant, suggesting variable factors at work, such as healing or alignment. 
A systematic error of undercorrection of astigmatism is prevalent in the 
treatment of these 100 patients by a factor of between 15% and 30%, depending on 
whether refractive or corneal values are examined. Spherical correction showed 
systematic undercorrection of 11%, and parallel indices demonstrated it to be 
more effective than the astigmatic correction.
CONCLUSION: This method of astigmatism analysis enables the examination of 
results of astigmatism treatment measured by both refractive and corneal 
measurements using vector analysis. By examining individual vector relationships 
to the TIA (ie, the correction index, index of success, and flattening index), a 
comprehensive astigmatism analysis is completed. Each index provides information 
necessary for understanding any astigmatic change. Astigmatic outcome parameters 
are more favorable when measured by subjective refractive than objective corneal 
methods.

DOI: 10.1016/s0886-3350(00)00798-7
PMID: 11165856 [Indexed for MEDLINE]