[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS neurology | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS neurology]

33. Clin Neurophysiol. 2017 Nov;128(11):2125-2139. doi: 
10.1016/j.clinph.2017.08.007. Epub 2017 Sep 5.

Contribution of transcranial magnetic stimulation to assessment of brain 
connectivity and networks.

Hallett M(1), Di Iorio R(2), Rossini PM(3), Park JE(4), Chen R(5), Celnik P(6), 
Strafella AP(7), Matsumoto H(8), Ugawa Y(9).

Author information:
(1)National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, NIH, Bethesda, MD, 
USA. Electronic address: hallettm@ninds.nih.gov.
(2)Department of Geriatrics, Institute of Neurology, Neuroscience and 
Orthopedics, Catholic University, Policlinic A. Gemelli Foundation, Rome, Italy.
(3)Department of Geriatrics, Institute of Neurology, Neuroscience and 
Orthopedics, Catholic University, Policlinic A. Gemelli Foundation, Rome, Italy; 
Brain Connectivity Laboratory, IRCCS San Raffaele Pisana, Rome, Italy.
(4)National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, NIH, Bethesda, MD, 
USA; Department of Neurology, Dongguk University Ilsan Hospital, Goyang, 
Republic of Korea.
(5)Krembil Research Institute, University of Toronto, Toronto, Canada; 
Department of Medicine (Neurology), University of Toronto, Toronto, Canada.
(6)Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Johns Hopkins School of 
Medicine, USA.
(7)Krembil Research Institute, University of Toronto, Toronto, Canada; Morton 
and Gloria Shulman Movement Disorder Unit & E.J. Safra Parkinson Disease 
Program, Toronto Western Hospital, UHN, Canada; Research Imaging Centre, 
Campbell Family Mental Health Research Institute, CAMH, University of Toronto, 
Ontario, Canada.
(8)Department of Neurology, Japanese Red Cross Medical Center, Japan.
(9)Department of Neurology, School of Medicine, Fukushima Medical University, 
Japan; Fukushima Global Medical Science Center, Advanced Clinical Research 
Center, Fukushima Medical University, Japan.

The goal of this review is to show how transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) 
techniques can make a contribution to the study of brain networks. Brain 
networks are fundamental in understanding how the brain operates. Effects on 
remote areas can be directly observed or identified after a period of 
stimulation, and each section of this review will discuss one method. EEG 
analyzed following TMS is called TMS-evoked potentials (TEPs). A conditioning 
TMS can influence the effect of a test TMS given over the motor cortex. A 
disynaptic connection can be tested also by assessing the effect of a 
pre-conditioning stimulus on the conditioning-test pair. Basal ganglia-cortical 
relationships can be assessed using electrodes placed in the process of deep 
brain stimulation therapy. Cerebellar-cortical relationships can be determined 
using TMS over the cerebellum. Remote effects of TMS on the brain can be found 
as well using neuroimaging, including both positron emission tomography (PET) 
and functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). The methods complement each 
other since they give different views of brain networks, and it is often 
valuable to use more than one technique to achieve converging evidence. The 
final product of this type of work is to show how information is processed and 
transmitted in the brain.

Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinph.2017.08.007
PMCID: PMC5679437
PMID: 28938143 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: DISCLOSURES None of the authors have potential 
conflicts of interest to be disclosed.