[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: Anjangaon | Type: Instruction-QA | Level: Graduate]

Question: Provide a comprehensive expert-level explanation of Anjangaon in the context of Applied Sciences.

Answer:
Anjangaon is a city and a municipal council in Amravati district in the state of Maharashtra, India. Anjangaon City got the status of Municipal Council in 1930. It is the first municipal council established in Amravati district and the second biggest council as well. Anjangaon Surji Tehsil was established in 1981. It is technically made up of two main zones, Anjangaon and Surji, on either side of Shahanur River, and is called Anjangaon-Surji in combination. It is called a "Banana Hub of Vidarbha" as it is a large producer of bananas and a hub of medicinal plants - Piper longum and Safed musali.

Anjangaon is located at . It has an average elevation of 374 metres (1227 feet).

History 
Anjangaon Surji is an ancient town having religious and historical importance. After the Battle of Assaye and the Battle of Argaum, the Treaty of Surji-Anjangaon was signed on 30 December 1803 at Anjangaon between the British and Daulat Rao Sindhia, chief of the Maratha people. In 18th century Vithoji Narayan was awarded the vatandari of Anjangaon. There are records that he was awarded with a title 'Surji'. Anjangaon is mentioned as one of 46 Mahals of Vidarbha in Ain-i-Akbari. The revenue of Anjangaon as mentioned in Ain-i-Akbari was 32 lakhs. The river Shahanoor on the banks of which Anjangaon is located, was historically named as Sharneera (meaning river generated by an arrow ). A popular story exists that during the year of banishment, Arjuna generated the water stream by hitting the soil by an arrow.

The Devnath Math in Surji was established in 1754 AD. Saint Ruplal Maharaj established a famous Vitthal Mandir in this town. This is a city of betel leaves. Previously betel leaves were exported from here to Indonesia, Pakistan and Arabian countries. Now this place is known for cultivation of Piper longum, a medicinal plant.

According to Imperial Gazetteer of India (William Wilson Hunter), "in the year 1881, the population of Anjangaon was 9842 consisting of 5060 males and 4782 females. Of the total population, 7714 were returned as Hindus, 1955 Muslims, 6 Sikhs, and 167 Jains. A mart for cotton cloth, excellent basket-work, and pan grown in the adjacent garden lands. Large weekly market".

Anjangaon City got the status of Municipal Council in 1930. It is the first municipal council established in Amravati district & the second biggest council as well. Anjangaon Surji Tehsil was established in 1981.

Demographics 
 India census, Anjangaon had a population of 160,903 in total of urban and rural. Rural area had a population of 104,523. It is the third most populous city in Amravati District after Amravati and Achalpur(Paratwada). 29,017 are males while 27,363 are females.  Anjangaon has a literacy rate of 88.93%, higher than the state average of 82.34%; with 91.01% of the males and 86.72% of females literate. 11.58% of the population is under 6 years of age. According to previous census, population of Anjangaon was 51,380 (2001), 41,674 (1991), 27,897(1971), 21,931(1961) and 11,881(1901).

Notable places

Shahanoor Dam (8 km):
This dam is built using soil and has a hydroelectricity generation project and water supply project for nearly 156 villages and 2 cities based on gravitation without using electricity. The dam is located in the north of the city in the ranges of Satpuda.

The city has a few religious and spiritual places which are tourist destinations due to their beauty.
Digambar Jain Mandir, Sawkar Pura - very old temple with Adinath Bhawgan idol (replicate of Keshariyaji Idol) .
Devnath Math, Surji: established in 1754 by Devnath Maharaj.
Shendgaon an ancient village popularly known for being the birthplace of Gadge Maharaj

Tulja Bhavani Mata mandir(Rathod).
Vitthal Mandir: This temple was established by Ruplal Maharaj.
Sri Munje Baba Temple (Pan Atai): Small temple situated in the neighborhood of pan atai. Family deity of Sumele and was established by Mr. Santosh Sumele.
Ekvira Devi Temple, Murha
Shri Deonath Maharaj Math, Surji
Gulab Baba Aashram, Takarkheda More

Shri Ganpati Devasthan, Borala
Shri Balaji Sansthan, Kathipura
Digambar Kaanch Temple, Saokar Peth
Shri Sant Chandrabhaga Mata Temple, Kumbhargaon
Murha Devi Mandir, Murha

Education 
The first school in the city was started in 1868. This school, situated in Saokar Peth, is currently run as a Government school for girls. There are many educational institutions in the city, among which Sitabai Sangai High School, Junior College and Radhabai Sarda College are the most popular along with Vidyaniketan College Of Pharmacy.

The following is a list of schools and colleges in the area:

Sitabai Sangai Highschool
Nagar Parishad Urdu High School Killa 
Sitabai Sangai Kanya Shala
Sitabai Sangai Prathamik Shala
Sitabai Sangai Jr. college. Sangai Naka Rd.
Raisaheb Moti Sangai English School
Smt. Radhabai Sarda College of Arts, Commerce and Science, Deogire Nagar.
Vidyaniketan College Of Pharmacy.
Pragtik Vidyalaya, Main Rd.

Green Hearts School (Gurukul), Vrindavan, achalpur Rd.,
Srinath jr. College, City Rd.,
Dnyanpith D.Ed. College. panchayat samiti rd.,
St. Mary's English School.Arokia Matha Church Compound, Daryapur Road
Smt.K.S.English School, station Rd.,
Smt. Panchfulabai Harne Jr. College, Rest House Rd.,
Smt.Radhabai Sarda Jr.College, Deogire Nagar.,
Dnyanpith English School.Station Rd.

Shrirang Chitrakala Mahavidyalaya, station rd.,
Govt.Institute of Tech. Industries, MIDC Rd.,
Arts College, Tower Rd.,
Smt.Indira Gandhi Technical College, Alkari Wada, P.O.rd.,
Shri.Maniklalji Sarda D.Ed.College, Deogire Nagar.,
Sri. Chintamani D.Ed. College, near Vyenktesh theater.
Rashtra Sant Tukdoji D.Ed. College, tehsil rd., Surji.
Dr. Sufi Urdu junior college Arts & science.
Shantabai Shrivastava English School, Near water tank, Surji.
Study Circle Convent, Surji.

Shreenath High school, Surji
Shri Sakharam maharaj primary school, Surji
Vidhyaniketan Junior College of commerce and Science, Takarkheda Naka.
Vidhyaniketan College Of Pharmacy, Takark