[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: Culpeper's Complete Herbal — Nicholas Culpeper | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Culpeper's Complete Herbal — Nicholas Culpeper — Overview

fright was different. You see Whitefoot had caught a glimpse of Shadow the Weasel. And he knew that if Shadow returned he would be sure to find the little round holes in the snow that led down to Whitefoot's private little tunnels underneath. The only thing for Whitefoot to do was to get just as far from that place as he could before Shadow should return. And so poor little
Whitefoot started out on a journey that was to take him he knew not
where. All he could do was to go and go and go until he could find a
safe hiding-place. My, my, but that was a dreadful journey! Every time a twig snapped,
Whitefoot's heart seemed to jump right up in his throat. Every time he
saw a moving shadow, and the branches of the trees moving in the wind
were constantly making moving shadows on the snow, he dodged behind
a tree trunk or under a piece of bark or wherever he could find a
hiding-place. You see, Whitefoot has so many enemies always looking for him that he
hides whenever he sees anything moving. When at home, he is forever
dodging in and out of his hiding-places. So, because everything was
strange to him, and because of the great fear of Shadow the Weasel, he
suspected everything that moved and every sound he heard. For a long way
no one saw him, for no one was about. Yet all that way Whitefoot
twisted and dodged and darted from place to place and was just as badly
frightened as if there had been enemies all about. “Oh, dear! Oh, dear me!” he kept saying over and over to himself. “Wherever shall I go? Whatever shall I do? However shall I get enough to
eat? I won't dare go back to get food from my little storehouses, and I
shall have to live in a strange place where I won't know where to look
for food. I am getting tired. My legs ache. I 'm getting hungry. I want
my nice, warm, soft bed. Oh, dear! Oh, dear! Oh, dear me!”

But in spite of his frights, Whitefoot kept on. You see, he was more
afraid to stop than he was to go on. He just had to get as far from
Shadow the Weasel as he could. Being such a little fellow, what would be
a short distance for you or me is a long distance for Whitefoot. And so that journey was to him very long indeed. Of course, it seemed
longer because of the constant frights which came one right after
another. It really was a terrible journey. Yet if he had only known it,
there wasn't a thing along the whole way to be afraid of. You know it
often happens that people are frightened more by what they don't know
than by what they do know. CHAPTER XVI: Whitefoot Climbs A Tree

    I'd rather be frightened With no cause for fear
    Than fearful of nothing When danger is near. --Whitefoot. Whitefoot kept on going and going. Every time he thought that he was so
tired he must stop, he would think of Shadow the Weasel and then go on
again. By and by he became so tired that not even the thought of Shadow
the Weasel could make him go much farther. So he began to look about for
a safe hiding-place in which to rest. Now the home which he had left had been a snug little room beneath the
roots of a certain old stump. There he had lived for a long time in the
greatest comfort. Little tunnels led to his storehouses and up to the
surface of the snow. It had been a splendid place and one in which he
had felt perfectly safe until Shadow the Weasel had appeared. Had you
seen him playing about there, you would have thought him one of the
little people of the ground, like his cousin Danny Meadow Mouse. But Whitefoot is quite as much at home in trees as on the ground. In
fact, he is quite as much at home in trees as is Chatterer the Red
Squirrel, and a lot more at home in trees than is Striped Chipmunk,
although Striped Chipmunk belongs to the Squirrel family. So now that
he must find a hiding-place, Whitefoot decided that he would feel much
safer in a tree than on the ground. “If only I can find a hollow tree,” whimpered Whitefoot. “I will feel
ever so much safer in a tree than hiding in or near the ground in a
strange place.”

So Whitefoot began to look for a dead tree. You see, he knew that there
was more likely to be a hollow in a dead tree than in a living tree. By
and by he came to a tall, dead tree. He knew it was a dead tree, because
there was no bark on it. But, of course, he couldn't tell whether or not
that tree was hollow. I mean he couldn't tell from the ground. “Oh, dear!” he whimpered again. “Oh, dear! I suppose I will have to
climb this, and I am so tired. It ought to be hollow. There ought to
be splendid holes in it. It is just the kind of a tree that Drummer the
Woodpecker likes to make his house in. I shall be terribly disappointed
if I don't find one of his houses somewhere in it, but I wish I hadn't
got to climb it to find out. Well, here goes.”

He looked anxiously this way. He looked anxiously that way. He looked
anxiously the other way. In fact, he looked anxiously every way. But he saw no one and nothing to be afraid of, and so he started up the
tree.