[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: magnetotherapy clinical evidence pain healing | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: magnetotherapy clinical evidence pain healing]

10. BMC Oral Health. 2024 Jan 10;24(1):67. doi: 10.1186/s12903-023-03741-1.

Attenuation of orthodontically induced inflammatory root resorption by using 
low-intensity pulsed ultrasound as a therapeutic modality- a systematic review.

Vaddamanu SK(1), Alhamoudi FH(2), Vyas R(2), Gurumurthy V(2), Siurkel Y(3), 
Cicciù M(4), Minervini G(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Dental Technology, College of Applied Medical Sciences, King 
Khalid University, Abha, 62529, Saudi Arabia. snu@kku.edu.sa.
(2)Department of Dental Technology, College of Applied Medical Sciences, King 
Khalid University, Abha, 62529, Saudi Arabia.
(3)International European University School of Medicine, Akademika Hlushkova 
Ave, 42В, Kyiv, 03187, Ukraine. yuliasiurkel@ieu.edu.ua.
(4)Department of Biomedical and Surgical and Biomedical Sciences, Catania 
University, Catania, 95123, Italy.
(5)Saveetha Dental College and Hospitals, Saveetha Institute of Medical and 
Technical Sciences (SIMATS), Saveetha University, Chennai, Tamil Nadu, India. 
Giuseppe.minervini@unicampania.it.
(6)Multidisciplinary Department of Medical-Surgical and Dental Specialties, 
University of Campania Luigi Vanvitelli, Caserta, 81100, Italy. 
Giuseppe.minervini@unicampania.it.

Ultrasound is an effective tool for both diagnostic and therapeutic 
applications. As an imaging tool, ultrasound has mostly been used for real-time 
noninvasive diagnostic imaging. As ultrasound propagates through a material, a 
reflected radio-frequency (RF) signal is generated when encountering a mismatch 
in acoustic impedance. While traditionally recognized for its diagnostic imaging 
capabilities, the application of ultrasound has broadened to encompass 
therapeutic interventions, most notably in the form of Low-Intensity Pulsed 
Ultrasound (LIPUS). Low-Intensity Pulsed Ultrasound (LIPUS) is a form of 
mechanical energy transmitted transcutaneously by high-frequency acoustic 
pressure waves. The intensity of LIPUS (30 mW/cm2) is within the range of 
ultrasound intensities used for diagnostic purposes (1-50 mW/cm2) and is 
regarded as non-thermal, non-destructive, permeating living tissues and 
triggering a cascade of biochemical responses at the cellular level. The LIPUS 
device produces a 200 µs burst of 1.5 MHz acoustic sine waves, that repeats at a 
modulation frequency of 1 kHz and provides a peak pressure of 30 mW/cm2. 
Low-intensity pulsed ultrasound (LIPUS) forms one of the currently available 
non-invasive healing-enhancing devices besides electro-stimulation (pulsed 
electro-magnetic field, PEMF). This modality has been leveraged to enhance drug 
delivery, expedite injury recovery, improve muscle mobility, alleviate joint 
stiffness and muscle pain, and enhance bone fracture healing. Although LIPUS has 
been embraced within various medical disciplines, its integration into standard 
dental practices is still in its nascent stages, signifying an unexplored 
frontier with potentially transformative implications. Low-intensity pulsed 
ultrasound (LIPUS) has emerged as an attractive adjuvant therapy in various 
dental procedures, such as orthodontic treatment and maxillary sinus 
augmentation. Its appeal lies in its simplicity and non-invasive nature, 
positioning LIPUS as a promising avenue for clinical innovation. One particular 
area of interest is orthodontically induced inflammatory root resorption 
(OIIRR), an oftenunavoidable outcome of the orthodontic intervention, resulting 
in the permanent loss of root structure. Notably, OIIRR is the second most 
common form of root resorption (RR), surpassed only by root resorption related 
to pulpal infection. Given the high prevalence and potential long-term 
consequences of OIIRR, this literature review seeks to evaluate the efficacy of 
LIPUS as a therapeutic approach, with an emphasis on assessing its capacity to 
reduce the severity of OIIRR to a level of clinical significance. To conduct 
this systematic review, a comprehensive automated literature search was executed 
across multiple databases, including MEDLINE, Embase, PsycINFO, Web of 
Knowledge, Scopus, CINAHL, LILACS, SciELO, Cochrane, PubMed, trials registries, 
3ie, and Google Scholar. Both forward and backward citation tracking was 
employed, encompassing studies published from database inception through January 
2009 to April 2023. The review focused on randomized controlled trials (RCTs) 
that specifically evaluated the effects of low-intensity pulsed ultrasound 
therapy on orthodontically induced inflammatory root resorption (OIIRR), without 
restrictions of publication date. A stringent selection criterion was applied, 
and only studies demonstrating high levels of statistical significance were 
included. Ultimately, fourteen studies met the inclusion criteria and were 
subjected to further analysis. The overall quality of the included randomized 
controlled trials (RCTs) was rigorously assessed utilizing the Grading of 
Recommendations Assessment, Development, and Evaluation (GRADE) approach. This 
analysis revealed certain methodological limitations that posed challenges in 
drawing definitive conclusions from the available evidence. Despite these 
constraints, the review offers invaluable insights that can inform and guide 
future research. Specifically, it delineates recommendations for targeted 
populations, necessary interventions, appropriate outcome measures, suitable 
study designs, and essential infrastructure to facilitate further 
investigations. The synthesis of these insights aims to enhance the development 
and application of low-intensity pulsed ultrasound therapy within the field of 
dentistry, thereby contributing to improved patient outcomes.

© 2023. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12903-023-03741-1
PMCID: PMC10782536
PMID: 38200481 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.