[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Propulsion Mechanics | Topic: Space Systems Command | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Space Systems Command — Overview

Logistics Directorate, the DMSP Group becoming the Defense Weather Systems Directorate, the Missile Defense Systems Group becoming the Missile Defense Systems Division, and the Satellite Control and Network Systems Group becoming the Satellite Control and Network Systems Division In 2014, the Space and Missile Systems Center combined its Developmental Planning Directorate and the Space Development and Test Directorate to form the Advanced Systems and Development Directorate. The Range and Network Systems Division was eventually stood up to replace the functions of the Satellite Control and Network Systems Division and in 2015 the Defense Weather Systems Directorate and Infrared Space Systems Directorate were combined into the Remote Sensing Systems Directorate. In 2019, these directorates were all replaced as part of the SMC 2.0 reorganization, which instead established the Development Corps, which was responsible for innovation and prototyping, a Production Corps, an Enterprise Corps, which conducted support for products and launch, and an Atlas Corps which provided personnel management. Redesignation as Space Systems Command and transfer to the Space Force

When the United States Space Force was established as an independent service on 20 December 2019, Air Force Space Command was redesignated as United States Space Force, but functionally remained a major command within the Air Force. The Space and Missile Systems Center remained a part of United States Space Force as it was redesignated as Space Operations Command, until it was reassigned to Headquarters Space Force on 22 April 2021 and officially transferred from the U.S. Air Force center to a U.S. Space Force field command, although it continued to use the Space and Missile Systems Center name. On 13 August 2021, the Space and Missile Systems Center was redesignated as Space Systems Command on 13 August 2021. The commander is a Space Force lieutenant general, while the deputy command is a Space Force major general and is also responsible for space launch. In addition to Space and Missile Systems Center units realigning, the 61st Air Base Group was redesignated the Los Angeles Garrison. Space Systems Command also gained Space Launch Delta 30 and Space Launch Delta 45, which they had given up to Air Force Space Command in 1990. The commander of Space Launch Delta 45, a brigadier general, is the Space Systems Command operations director and range acquisitions lead. Air Force Research Laboratory space units, such as the Space Vehicles Directorate, Space Electro-Optical Division, Rocket Propulsion Division, and Space Systems Technology Division, administratively report to Space Systems Command, while remaining under the aligned under Air Force Research Labs. The Air Force Life Cycle Management Center's Strategic Warning and Surveillance Systems Division, responsible for ground-based radars, missile warning, space domain awareness, missile defense systems, and shared early warning capabilities, transferred to Space Systems Command. Space Systems Command also provides support to the Space Rapid Capabilities Office and Space Development Agency (to be transferred in 2022), which are direct reporting units to the Chief of Space Operations. In July 2021, President Biden nominated Deputy Director of the National Reconnaissance Office Maj Gen Michael Guetlein to lead Space Systems Command. He was confirmed with a promotion to lieutenant general on 29 July 2021 which became effective on 13 August 2021. Symbolism

Space Systems Command emblem and color

At the top of the design, rising into space, is a delta riding on an ignition plume. The delta and plume represent the launch vehicles need to place Space Force assets into orbit and signifies launch operations from West and East coast ranges. The constellation Aquila symbolizes the space environment, reflecting Space Systems Command's developing and fielding of space warfighting capabilities. The primary star represents the Space Force's on-orbit capabilities. The sweeping orbit and thunderbolt represent the Space Force's space assets safeguarding the Earth. Gold is Space Systems Command's distinguishing color and signifying the excellence and intelligence required to identify, prototype, and field innovative space capabilities. The Space Systems Command emblem and flag were unveiled on 13 April 2021, replacing the Space and Missile Systems Center emblem. Post–2002 Space and Missile Systems Center emblem
After space and missiles functions were reunited under the Space and Missile Systems Center, it continued to use the old Space and Missile Systems Organization emblem for 10 years. However, when the Space and Missile Systems Center transferred from Air Force Materiel Command to Air Force Space Command it adopted a new emblem on 2 August 2002 to better express its mission and allegiance to Air Force Space Command. Blue and yellow are the Air Force colors. Blue alludes to the sky, the primary theater of Air Force operations.