[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: photodynamic therapy cancer clinical trial | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: photodynamic therapy cancer clinical trial]

21. Kyobu Geka. 2025 Sep;78(10):866-870.

[Photodynamic Therapy for Peripheral Lung Cancer].

[Article in Japanese]

Usuda J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Thoracic Surgery, Nippon Medical School, Tokyo, Japan.

Photodynamic therapy (PDT) utilizes a tumor-specific photosensitizer with 
low-power laser irradiation and this treatment has been established for 
centrally located lung cancers. However, its application to peripheral type lung 
cancers remains investigational. Recently, there has been interest in minimally 
invasive ablative therapies are needed for peripheral type lung cancer and 
several bronchoscopic ablative modalities are currently under investigation. In 
this study, a novel laser probe was developed and a multicenter randomized 
clinical trial was conducted to assess the safety and efficacy of PDT for 
peripheral lung cancer, and to establish a novel bronchoscopic treatment. 
Patients with non-small cell lung cancer diagnosed by transbronchial lung biopsy 
with a tumor diameter of 25 mm or less and ineligible for surgery or 
radiotherapy were enrolled. A randomized controlled trial was conducted with a 
2:1 ratio between the PDT group and the best supportive care (BSC) group. The 
primary endpoint was progression-free survival (PFS), and the secondary endpoint 
was overall survival (OS). For the BSC group, salvage PDT (sPDT) was permitted 
for patients with a PD diagnosis and a tumor diameter of 30 mm or less. Patients 
were enrolled from May 2020 to May 2023 at six hospitals, with a total of 54 
cases included, including 35 cases in the PDT group and 19 cases in the BSC 
group. Among the cases in the BSC group, sPDT was performed in 14 cases. The 
median PFS was 12.7 months [95% confidence interval (CI): 6.7, 30.0] in the PDT 
group, and the median PFS was 4.1 months (95% CI: 2.9, 7.4) in the BSC group. 
Kaplan-Meier survival analysis (log-rank test, p=0.0172) demonstrated a 
significant prolongation of the PFS in the PDT group. The incidence of serious 
adverse events was 5.9% (two patients) in the PDT group and 0% in the sPDT 
group. The findings of this study indicate that PDT for peripheral lung cancer 
led to a significantly prolongation of PFS and was safe to perform. PDT 
demonstrated efficacy in preserving lung function, inhibiting lung cancer 
progression, and maintaining a good quality of life.

PMID: 40998354 [Indexed for MEDLINE]