[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: ethnobotany traditional medicine biological activi | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: ethnobotany traditional medicine biological activity]

88. Cell Mol Biol (Noisy-le-grand). 2020 Jun 25;66(4):78-103.

Achillea spp.: A comprehensive review on its ethnobotany, phytochemistry, 
phytopharmacology and industrial applications.

Salehi B(1), Selamoglu Z(2), Sevindik M(3), Fahmy NM(4), Al-Sayed E(4), 
El-Shazly M(4), Csupor-Löffler B(5), Csupor D(5), Yazdi SE(6), Sharifi-Rad J(7), 
Arserim-Uçar DK(8), Arserim EH(9), Karazhan N(10), Jahani A(11), Dey A(12), 
Azadi H(13), Vakili SA(14), Sharopov F(15), Martins N(16), Büsselberg D(17).

Author information:
(1)Student Research Committee, School of Medicine, Bam University of Medical 
Sciences, Bam, Iran.
(2)Department of Medical Biology, Faculty of Medicine, Nigde Ömer Halisdemir 
University, Campus, 51240, Nigde, Turkey.
(3)Osmaniye Korkut Ata University, Bahçe Vocational School, Department of Food 
Processing, Osmaniye, Turkey.
(4)Department of Pharmacognosy, Faculty of Pharmacy, Ain-Shams University, 
11566, Cairo, Egypt.
(5)Department of Pharmacognosy, University of Szeged, Szeged, Hungary.
(6)Department of Plant and Soil Sciences, University of Pretoria, Gauteng 0002, 
South Africa.
(7)Phytochemistry Research Center, Shahid Beheshti University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(8)Food Engineering Department, Faculty of Engineering and Architecture, Bingöl 
University, Bingöl, Turkey.
(9)Department of Food Science, Rutgers University, New Brunswick, NJ, USA.
(10)Department of Pharmacognosy, Pharmaceutical Faculty of the EE VSMU, Vitebsk, 
Republic of Belarus.
(11)Department of Natural Environment and Biodiversity, College of Environment, 
Karaj, Iran.
(12)Department of Life Sciences, Presidency University, 86/1 College Street, 
Kolkata: 700073, India.
(13)Department of Agronomy and Plant Breeding Science, College of Aburaihan, 
University of Tehran, Tehran-Pakdasht, Iran.
(14)Department of Pharmacology, Visveswarapura Institute of Pharmaceutical 
Sciences, Bangalore-560070, Karnataka, India.
(15)Department of Pharmaceutical Technology, Avicenna Tajik State Medical 
University, Rudaki 139, 734003, Dushanbe, Tajikistan.
(16)Faculty of Medicine, University of Porto, Alameda Professor Hernâni 
Monteiro, 4200-319 Porto, Portugal.
(17)Department of Physiology and Biophysics, Weill Cornell Medicine-Qatar, 
Education City, Qatar Foundation, Doha, P.O. Box 24144, Qatar.

The genus Achillea genus houses more than 100 species, a number of them are 
popularly used in traditional medicine for spasmodic gastrointestinal, 
gynecological and hepatobiliary disorders, hemorrhages, pneumonia, rheumatic 
pain, inflammation, wounds healing etc. Members of the genus contain a wide 
variety of volatile and non-volatile secondary metabolites, including terpenes, 
polyphenols, flavonoids and others. Multiple studies have assessed the 
biological effects and other aspects of Achillea spp. In a number of preclinical 
studies, Achillea plants and their essential oils have demonstrated promising 
antibacterial properties against a number of human and plant pathogens. Besides, 
the plants have displayed strong antioxidative and potent anti-proliferative and 
anticancer properties in various cellular and animal models. Achillea plants 
have widely been used as food preservative in food industry. Clinical studies 
have indicated its potential against multiple sclerosis (MS), irritable bowel 
syndrome (IBS), ulcerative colitis, episiotomy wound, primary dysmenorrhea, oral 
mucositis etc. The present work focuses to provide a brief overview on folk 
knowledge, phytochemistry, biological activity and applications of Achillea 
plants. There is a close relationship between the traditional ethnobotanical 
usage and pharmacological and clinical data from different Achillea spp. The 
application of Achillea plants and their extracts seems to be a promising 
alternative for antimicrobial and antioxidant purposes in food, pharmaceutical 
and cosmetic industries.

PMID: 32583790 [Indexed for MEDLINE]