[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS neurology | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS neurology]

78. Neurotherapeutics. 2025 Mar;22(2):e00496. doi: 10.1016/j.neurot.2024.e00496. 
Epub 2024 Nov 28.

Identifying neural circuitry abnormalities in neuropathic pain with transcranial 
magnetic stimulation and electroencephalogram co-registration.

Huang Z(1), Wang Y(1), Yan Y(2), Liu Y(3), Chen J(1), Liu H(2), Li J(4), Gao 
Z(5), Che X(6).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Cognition and Brain Disorders, The Affiliated Hospital of Hangzhou 
Normal University, Hangzhou, China.
(2)Department of Neurology, Hangzhou Third People's Hospital, Hangzhou, China.
(3)Department of Anesthesiology, The Second Affiliated Hospital of Zhejiang 
University School of Medicine, Hangzhou, China.
(4)Department of Radiology, The Affiliated Hospital of Hangzhou Normal 
University, Hangzhou, China.
(5)Department of Neurology, The Affiliated Hospital of Hangzhou Normal 
University, Hangzhou, China.
(6)Centre for Cognition and Brain Disorders, The Affiliated Hospital of Hangzhou 
Normal University, Hangzhou, China. Electronic address: xwcheswu@gmail.com.

Non-invasive brain stimulation (NIBS) technology such as transcranial magnetic 
stimulation (TMS) represents a promising treatment for neuropathic pain. 
However, neural circuitries underlying analgesia remain to be established, which 
is largely limiting treatment responses. Using TMS and electroencephalogram 
co-registration (TMS-EEG), this study quantified the circuitry abnormalities in 
neuropathic pain and their associations with pain symptoms. A group of 21 
neuropathic pain individuals and 21 healthy controls were assessed with TMS-EEG 
delivering to the primary motor cortex (M1). With source modelling, local 
current density and current propagation were analysed with significant current 
density (SCD) and scattering (SCS) respectively. The SCS and SCD data converged 
on higher activities in neuropathic pain individuals than healthy controls, 
within the emotional affective (perigenual anterior cingulate cortex, pgACC), 
sensory nociceptive (primary somatosensory cortex, S1), and the attentional 
cognitive (anterior insula, aINS; supracallosal anterior cingulate cortex, 
scACC) structures of pain. Moreover, current propagation to the pgACC was 
associated with lower pain-related negative emotions, while current propagation 
to the aINS with higher pain-related negative emotions. Using concurrent 
TMS-EEG, our data identified abnormal pain circuitries that could be utilised to 
improve treatment efficacy with brain stimulation technologies.

Copyright © 2024 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neurot.2024.e00496
PMCID: PMC12014317
PMID: 39613525 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare no conflict of interest related to the publication.