[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: magnetic resonance spectroscopy metabolite brain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: magnetic resonance spectroscopy metabolite brain]

64. Mol Carcinog. 2017 Nov;56(11):2355-2371. doi: 10.1002/mc.22694. Epub 2017 Jul
 17.

Metabolomic signature of brain cancer.

Pandey R(1), Caflisch L(2), Lodi A(1), Brenner AJ(2)(3), Tiziani S(1)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Nutritional Sciences, The University of Texas at Austin, 
Austin, Texas.
(2)Department of Hematology and Medical oncology, University of Texas Health 
Science Center at San Antonio, San Antonio, Texas.
(3)Department of Cancer Therapy and Research Center, University of Texas Health 
Science Center at San Antonio, San Antonio, Texas.
(4)Dell Pediatric Research Institute, The University of Texas at Austin, Austin, 
Texas.

Despite advances in surgery and adjuvant therapy, brain tumors represent one of 
the leading causes of cancer-related mortality and morbidity in both adults and 
children. Gliomas constitute about 60% of all cerebral tumors, showing varying 
degrees of malignancy. They are difficult to treat due to dismal prognosis and 
limited therapeutics. Metabolomics is the untargeted and targeted analyses of 
endogenous and exogenous small molecules, which charact erizes the phenotype of 
an individual. This emerging "omics" science provides functional readouts of 
cellular activity that contribute greatly to the understanding of cancer biology 
including brain tumor biology. Metabolites are highly informative as a direct 
signature of biochemical activity; therefore, metabolite profiling has become a 
promising approach for clinical diagnostics and prognostics. The metabolic 
alterations are well-recognized as one of the key hallmarks in monitoring 
disease progression, therapy, and revealing new molecular targets for effective 
therapeutic intervention. Taking advantage of the latest high-throughput 
analytical technologies, that is, nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy 
and mass spectrometry (MS), metabolomics is now a promising field for precision 
medicine and drug discovery. In the present report, we review the application of 
metabolomics and in vivo metabolic profiling in the context of adult gliomas and 
paediatric brain tumors. Analytical platforms such as high-resolution (HR) NMR, 
in vivo magnetic resonance spectroscopic imaging and high- and low-resolution MS 
are discussed. Moreover, the relevance of metabolic studies in the development 
of new therapeutic strategies for treatment of gliomas are reviewed.

© 2017 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/mc.22694
PMCID: PMC5708886
PMID: 28618012 [Indexed for MEDLINE]