[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Propulsion Mechanics | Topic: Flying Machines — W.J. Jackman (early aerodynamics) | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Flying Machines — W.J. Jackman (early aerodynamics) — Overview

lust who was already a villanous adulterer, and infamous whoremonger, so that the delighte and pleasure which he take therin, provoked him to be willing to make so excessiue and unmeasurable a recompence: Moreouer let us marke more narrowly in Genesis, that which is written of Dina the daughter of Jacob, and we shall find that daunses were partly the cause of her rauishing, or deflouring. For albeit, that in that place, there is no expresse
mention made of daunses, yet so it is, that when it is sayde, that
Dina went to see the daughters of the countrey or land, there is some
appearance and likelihod that the daughters had this custome, to
assemble themselues togeather in daunse, and that to the end, that in
shewing the nimblenes of their body, their bewty, and wery conceyts,
they might bee coveted and desyred of young men, as indeede Dina was
by Sichem. And in this our tyme and age, do not men daily see many
such thinges, which daunses bring with them: The example by mee
heretofore brought forth and alleged, ought to serue for an example to
all great lords, to withdraw their daughters from such baites. But
setting all the rest aside, do wee not see that duncing hath cost,
this holy man, and great prophet of God so deare, that it hath taken
away from him the head from aboue his shoulders. By the way or meane of daunsing, the children of Israell, were willing
to geue honour to an ydole, to a calfe of Gold, to a dead thing, and
which they themselues had molten & framed after the imitation & manner
of Pagans, which in such a sort & fashion serued their gods. Bee not
these things sufficient to make a man flie daunses, & to prouoke a
christian man to haue them in abomination, & to abhore them as things
which haue ordinarilye, and commonlye serued to idolatry, and haue
prouoked to whoredome, and haue chaunged and altered many daughters of
good house and stocke, from the loue and fauour of their parentes, and
finally haue caused infinite murthers: murthers I say, for in all the
3 peeces of Scripture before alledged, we euer fynd ther the death of
some. In the daunse before Herod the death of John Baptist. In the
rape or rauishing of Dina, Sichem, his father, & all his sobiectes,
died there. In the worshipping of the golden calfe, where the children
of Israel daunsed and leaped so nimblie, cherefully, & merily, before
that their belly was full, there died then aboute three thousande in
recompence of their ioy and gladnes. If then we would consider the
issues, and effectes, which come from daunses, & the fayre or goodly
fruites which they bring forth, we would neuer thinke, but that the
heares would stand upright upon our very heades when the question is
of daunsing. It remaineth now to answeare them, who would serue themselues with
certaine parcels and peeces of the scripture, in which mention is
made, that the faithfull people haue daunsed. [Sidenote: Exo. 15 20.]
First they alledge that which is written in Exodus, that Mary the
prophetesse, the sister of Aaron, who after that God had ouerwhelmed
and drowned Pharao & his army in the red sea, toke a taberet in hir
hand, & being attended, or waited upon by other women, song with them
a songe to the lord: as also Moses, and the children of Israel song
another. The like is founde in the booke of Samuel, after that Dauid had slaine
Goliath, that many women came out of all the townes of Israel singing
and daunsing before King Saule, with tabours, rebeckes, and other
instrumentes of harmonie, or musicke. But when these which loue to leape and daunse, seeing there is here
spoken not only of daunses, but also of taberets and other musicall
instrumentes, do thinke that they are already in the hall of leapinge
or skipping, and do daunse according to the note and measures that the
Minstrels and Pipers wil sound or play to them: inferringe that the
holy scripture before alleged maketh for them, and that by it daunses
are approued, they are indeede fouly deceaued and very farre of from
their reckoninge, because that reckoning without the host, it was
meete for them to reckon twyse. For it is most certaine that there is as much difference betweene
their daunses, and those which holy men haue used, as there is betwene
mariage and fornication. I meane betweene chastity & whoredome. And
euen as it is no maner of way permitted or suffered to committe
whoredome, so our daunses and the usage of them may not be allowed nor
receiued. But to cut it short, that is to say, to be short, wee can
not gather that any appearaunce or shew of euil, or any signe of
watonnes or dissolutenes, was euer found in the daunses of holy men,
but altogeather contrariwise, they therein behaued themselues with
such honor, fear, and reuerence towardes God, the whole matter it
selfe beyng accompanied, with so great honesty and sobernesse, as
nothinge more. And in which mens deede 3. pointes are to be considered
and marked, which can not be at any hand found in the Prophane and
wicked daunses of our tyme.