[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: pharmacognosy medicinal plant active compound isol | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: pharmacognosy medicinal plant active compound isolation]

18. Endocr Metab Immune Disord Drug Targets. 2024;24(10):1146-1160. doi: 
10.2174/0118715303270345231121112049.

Comprehensive Review on the Genus Haloxylon: Pharmacological and Phytochemical 
Properties.

Amtaghri S(1)(2), Eddouks M(1).

Author information:
(1)Team of Ethnopharmacology and Pharmacognosy, Faculty of Sciences and 
Techniques Errachidia, Moulay Ismail University of Meknes, BP 509, Boutalamine, 
Errachidia, 52000, Morocco.
(2)Energy, Materials and Sustainable Development (EMDD) Team, Higher School of 
Technology-SALE, Center for Water, Natural Resources Environment and Sustainable 
Development (CERNE2D), Mohammed V University, Avenue Ibn Battouta, B.P. 1014, 
Rabat 10000, Morocco.

AIMS: This review aimed to review the biological, pharmacological, and 
phytochemical aspects of the genus Haloxylon.
BACKGROUND: Plants of the genus Haloxylon have been used for a long time in 
traditional medicine, and they are distributed in the western Mediterranean 
region to the Middle East, Iran, Mongolia, Burma, and southwest China. The 
studied parts of Haloxylon species include aerial parts, leaves, branches, 
seeds, roots, rhizosphere, soil, and whole plants, used to treat several 
diseases, including sexual disorders, hepatobiliary disorders, eye disorders, 
skin diseases and hemorrhoids, diarrhea, and effective in the treatment of 
various ailments such as snake bite, stomach ache, diabetes, wounds, earache and 
sciatica pain, windbreak dune fixation, feeding of livestock and firewood.
OBJECTIVES: Till now, no review on the genus Haloxylon has been conducted. This 
review aimed to provide updated information on the genus Haloxylon, including 
traditional medicinal uses, valorization and exploitation of medicinal plants, 
phytochemistry, botanical characterization, pharmacological and toxicological 
research focusing on the medicinal properties of several Haloxylon species, 
especially their antioxidant, antibacterial, anti-inflammatory, cytotoxic and 
antifungal activities, as well as the effect of each bioactive molecule isolated 
from these species and their pharmacological use, including the preclinical 
evaluation of new drugs.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The present work was conducted using various scientific 
databases, including Science Direct, Scopus, PubMed, Google Scholar, etc. 
Correct plant names were verified from plantlist.org. The results of this search 
were interpreted, analyzed, and documented based on the obtained bibliographic 
information.
RESULTS: Among all species of the Chenopodiaceae family, 6 species of the 
Haloxylon genus have approved antioxidant activity, 5 species have antibacterial 
activity, 3 species have anti-inflammatory activity, 2 species have cytotoxic 
activity, and 3 species have antifungal activity. The majority of the chemical 
constituents of this plant include flavonoids, alkaloids, phenols, saponins, 
glycosides, and tannins. Among them, the main bioactive constituents would be 
present in the alkaloid fraction. The study of more than 9 Haloxylon plants has 
identified more than 46 compounds. Pharmacological research proved that crude 
extracts and some pure compounds obtained from Haloxylon had activities for the 
treatment of different diseases. The objective of the present study was focused 
on antioxidant, antibacterial, anti-inflammatory, cytotoxic and antifungal 
diseases. From the study of the phytochemistry of the Haloxylon family, it was 
concluded that all studied plants had active compounds. Among them, 11 isolated 
molecules have medicinal activities with antioxidant properties, 10 molecules 
showed antibacterial effects, more than 6 molecules have anti-inflammatory 
properties, more than 9 isolated molecules have medicinal activities against 
cytotoxic diseases, and more than 28 molecules have antifungal effects. 
Therefore, the safety of Haloxylon herbal medicine should be considered a top 
priority in the early stages of development and clinical trials.
CONCLUSION: Several previously conducted studies have validated multiple 
traditional uses of Haloxylon species. Further research is needed on Haloxylon 
plants before they can be fully utilized in the clinic as a potent drug 
candidate, as researchers are mainly focusing on alkaloids, diterpenoids, and 
triterpenoids, whereas there are many other types of compounds that may possess 
novel biological activities.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/0118715303270345231121112049
PMID: 38243976 [Indexed for MEDLINE]