[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: plant alkaloid biosynthesis pathway elucidation | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: plant alkaloid biosynthesis pathway elucidation]

76. Phytomedicine. 2025 Nov 25;148:157238. doi: 10.1016/j.phymed.2025.157238.
Epub  2025 Sep 7.

Plant-derived natural products modulate astrocyte function: Therapeutic 
strategies for Alzheimer's disease.

Wei H(1), Zhang G(1), Yan X(1), Zhao A(1), Zheng Y(1), Shao Y(1), Yang L(2), 
Wang J(3), Jiang X(4).

Author information:
(1)School of Integrative Medicine, Tianjin University of Traditional Chinese 
Medicine, Tianjin 301617, China.
(2)School of Medical Technology, Tianjin University of Traditional Chinese 
Medicine, Tianjin 301617, China. Electronic address: yanglin@tjutcm.edu.cn.
(3)School of Integrative Medicine, Tianjin University of Traditional Chinese 
Medicine, Tianjin 301617, China. Electronic address: wangjie416@tjutcm.edu.cn.
(4)School of Integrative Medicine, Tianjin University of Traditional Chinese 
Medicine, Tianjin 301617, China. Electronic address: jxj2668@tjutcm.edu.cn.

BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a gradually worsening neurodegenerative 
condition with limited treatment options, highlighting the need for novel 
therapies. Astrocytes play key roles in AD pathogenesis. Natural products show 
promise for treating AD through modulating amyloid-beta (Aβ) and tau pathology, 
inhibiting neuroinflammation and oxidative stress, and protecting cellular 
organelles. Preclinical evidence supports their efficacy in targeting 
astrocyte-related mechanisms, enhancing cognition, and reducing neuronal damage.
PURPOSE: Systematically summarize and evaluate the medicinal benefits of 
plant-derived natural products in modulating astrocyte-mediated processes to 
attenuate AD progression.
METHODS: A comprehensive literature review was performed in PubMed and Web of 
Science, utilizing targeted keywords such as "natural products", "active 
compounds", "Alzheimer's disease", and "astrocytes". The review primarily 
focused on studies published between 2013 and 2024, with the selected literature 
systematically categorized and analyzed.
RESULTS: This review highlights the medicinal benefits of plant-derived natural 
products, such as flavonoids, alkaloids, polyphenols, and terpenes in targeting 
astrocyte morphology and function to combat AD. These bioactive compounds 
modulate key pathological processes, including neuroinflammation, oxidative 
stress, Aβ metabolism, tau hyperphosphorylation, mitochondrial dysfunction, and 
ER stress, outlining pathways to alleviate AD through astrocytic effects. The 
review also summarizes clinical progress and major challenges in translating 
these compounds, such as variability, low bioavailability, and delivery 
limitations.
CONCLUSION: This study addresses a critical gap by systematically elucidating 
the relationship between astrocytes and AD, and therapeutic potential of 
plant-derived natural products. It aims to expand treatment options for patients 
and advance the development of therapeutic strategies in the field of AD 
management.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.phymed.2025.157238
PMID: 41014665 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.