[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: graphene biomedical applications toxicity review | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: graphene biomedical applications toxicity review]

40. Adv Neurobiol. 2019;22:51-79. doi: 10.1007/978-3-030-11135-9_3.

Neuronal Cultures and Nanomaterials.

Bramini M(1)(2), Rocchi A(3), Benfenati F(3)(4)(5), Cesca F(6)(7).

Author information:
(1)Center for Synaptic Neuroscience and Technology (NSYN@UniGe), Istituto 
Italiano di Tecnologia, Genova, Italy. mattia.bramini@iit.it.
(2)Graphene Labs, Istituto Italiano di Tecnologia, Genova, Italy. 
mattia.bramini@iit.it.
(3)Center for Synaptic Neuroscience and Technology (NSYN@UniGe), Istituto 
Italiano di Tecnologia, Genova, Italy.
(4)Graphene Labs, Istituto Italiano di Tecnologia, Genova, Italy.
(5)Department of Experimental Medicine, University of Genova, Genova, Italy.
(6)Center for Synaptic Neuroscience and Technology (NSYN@UniGe), Istituto 
Italiano di Tecnologia, Genova, Italy. fabrizia.cesca@iit.it.
(7)Graphene Labs, Istituto Italiano di Tecnologia, Genova, Italy. 
fabrizia.cesca@iit.it.

In recent years, the scientific community has witnessed an exponential increase 
in the use of nanomaterials for biomedical applications. In particular, the 
interest of graphene and graphene-based materials has rapidly risen in the 
neuroscience field due to the properties of this material, such as high 
conductivity, transparency and flexibility. As for any new material that aims to 
play a role in the biomedical area, a fundamental aspect is the evaluation of 
its toxicity, which strongly depends on material composition, chemical 
functionalization and dimensions. Furthermore, a wide variety of 
three-dimensional scaffolds have also started to be exploited as a substrate for 
tissue engineering. In this application, the topography is probably the most 
relevant amongst the various properties of the different materials, as it may 
allow to instruct and interrogate neural networks, as well as to drive neural 
growth and differentiation.This chapter discusses the in vitro approaches, 
ranging from microscopy analysis to physiology measurements, to investigate the 
interaction of graphene with the central nervous system. Moreover, the in vitro 
use of three-dimensional scaffolds is described and commented.

DOI: 10.1007/978-3-030-11135-9_3
PMID: 31073932 [Indexed for MEDLINE]