[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: Beta-alumina solid electrolyte | Type: Instruction-QA | Level: Graduate]

Question: Provide a comprehensive expert-level explanation of Beta-alumina solid electrolyte in the context of Applied Sciences.

Answer:
Beta-alumina solid electrolyte (BASE) is a fast ion conductor material used as a membrane in several types of molten salt electrochemical cell. Currently there is no known substitute available. β-Alumina exhibits an unusual layered crystal structure which enables very fast ion transport. β-Alumina is not an isomorphic form of aluminium oxide (Al2O3), but a sodium polyaluminate. It is a hard polycrystalline ceramic, which, when prepared as an electrolyte, is complexed with a mobile ion, such as Na+, K+, Li+, Ag+, H+, Pb2+, Sr2+  or Ba2+ depending on the application. β-Alumina is a good conductor of its mobile ion yet allows no non-ionic (i.e., electronic) conductivity. The crystal structure of the β-alumina provides an essential rigid framework with channels along which the ionic species of the solid can migrate. Ion transport involves hopping from site to site along these channels. Since the 1970's this technology has been thoroughly developed, resulting in interesting applications. Its special characteristics on ion and electrical conductivity make this material extremely interesting in the field of energy storage.

Solid electrolyte 

β-alumina is a solid electrolyte. Solid-state electrolytes are solids with high ionic conductivity, comparable to those of molten salts. Solid-state electrolytes have applications in electrical energy storage and various sensors. They can be used in supercapacitors, fuel cells and solid-state batteries, substituting liquid electrolytes used in for example the lithium-ion battery. The solid electrolyte contains highly mobile ions, allowing the movement of ions. The ions move by hopping through the otherwise rigid crystal. The main advantage of solid electrolytes over liquid ones are increased safety and higher power density.

History 
BASE was first developed by researchers at the Ford Motor Company, in the search for a storage device for electric vehicles while developing the sodium–sulfur battery. The compound β-alumina was already discovered in 1916 and the structure was quite well known by the end of the 1930s. The term "beta-alumina" is a misnomer, since it is not an aluminium oxide (Al2O3), but a sodium polyaluminate. Before the 1970s, β-alumina was mainly used in the construction of industrial furnaces. At the Ford Motor Company, researchers (Yung-Fang YuYao, J. T. Kummer and Neill Weber) rediscovered the high ionic conductivity of β-alumina, which meant it could be used as solid electrolyte. Ford Motor company was interested to use the material in the sodium–sulfur battery they were developing for electrical vehicles. In the early 1970s, instigated by the oil crisis, most research focused on industrial application of β-alumina in energy storage solutions. Soon β-alumina became also a model to study high ionic conductivity, and a lot of theoretical research in the exact mechanisms underlying the conductivity was undertaken in the 1970s and 1980s. The sodium–sulfur battery was a topic of intense worldwide interest during the 1970s and 1980s, but interest in the technology for vehicle use diminished for a variety of technical and economic reasons. Its "successor", the sodium nickel chloride battery, is of commercial interest. The sodium nickel chloride battery (or ZEBRA battery) has been under development for almost 20 years.

Structure 
When first discovered, β-alumina was thought to be a polymorph of \alpha-Al_2O_3( Aluminium oxide), and was subsequently named \beta-Al_2O_3. In 1931 it was realized sodium was also part of the structure. The crystal consists of closely packed 'spinal' blocks, separated by loosely-packed conduction planes.  The spinal blocks are linked by Al-O-Al bonds. These conduction planes contain mobile sodium ions, which makes the β-alumina an ionic conductor. β-alumina is generally non-stoichiometric. The general formula is given by Na_{1+x}Al_{11}O_{17+x/2}, with  the excess of sodium atoms, balanced by an excess of  oxygen atoms.  would be the stoichiometric compound, but is normally not stable. Generally  is around 0.3. The ions K+, Ag+, Tl+, NH_4+, H_3O+  can replace the sodium in the conduction layer.  

Three important sites for the conduction mechanism in the conduction planes have been identified. These are three possible positions for the sodium ion, named Bever-Ross (BR), anti-Bever-Ross (aBR) and mid-oxygen (mO). The first two are named after the scientist who first identified these positions. The last is named mid-oxygen, as it is the position exactly between two oxygen ions in the conduction plane. These three position are at ,  and respectively, when taking one of the symmetry points as the origin. The sodium ion is most likely at the BR position, but all three sites are important for the conduction in B-alumina. The sodium ions hop between these sites in the conduction plane.  

There are two main, structural different compounds, β-alumina and β"-alumina. There are a few other compounds identified, but these are all structurally very similar to either β- or β”-alumina. β-alumina is the name for this specific structure, but is also used to describe the general class of β-alumina material including β”-alumina. β-alumina, the specific structure, has hexagonal symmetry. Its unit cell consists of two spinal blocks, including two adjacent conduction planes. The conduction planes are mirror planes. β”-alumina has a quite similar structure, but the stacking of the different planes is slightly different. It has rhombohedral symmetry and its unit cell consists of three spinal blocks, including adjacent conduction planes. It's unit cell is therefore about 1.5 times as long along the c-axis. The conduction planes can contain more sodium ions than β-alumina and it has lower energy barriers for hopping between the different sides in the conduction plane. β”-alumina has therefore generally a higher conductivity than β-alumina and is the preferred phase for electrolyte applications.

Conduction 
β-alumina is a good ionic conduct