[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: Quantitative Phosphoproteomics of Early Elicitor Signaling i | Type: OpenAlex-OA | Level: Graduate]

[OpenAlex | Herbal Medicine | Year: 2007 | Citations: 674]

Title: Quantitative Phosphoproteomics of Early Elicitor Signaling in Arabidopsis

Abstract:
Perception of general elicitors by plant cells initiates signal transduction cascades that are regulated by protein phosphorylation. The earliest signaling events occur within minutes and include ion fluxes across the plasma membrane, activation of MAPKs, and the formation of reactive oxygen species. The phosphorylation events that regulate these signaling cascades are largely unknown. Here we present a mass spectrometry-based quantitative phosphoproteomics approach that identified differentially phosphorylated sites in signaling and response proteins from Arabidopsis cells treated with either flg22 or xylanase. Our approach was sensitive enough to quantitate phosphorylation on low abundance signaling proteins such as calcium-dependent protein kinases and receptor-like kinase family members. With this approach we identified one or more differentially phosphorylated sites in 76 membrane-associated proteins including a number of defense-related proteins. Our data on phosphorylation indicate a high degree of complexity at the level of post-translational modification as exemplified by the complex modification patterns of respiratory burst oxidase protein D. Furthermore the data also suggest that protein translocation and vesicle traffic are important aspects of early signaling and defense in response to general elicitors. Our study presents the largest quantitative Arabidopsis phosphoproteomics data set to date and provides a new resource that can be used to gain novel insight into plant defense signal transduction and early defense response. Perception of general elicitors by plant cells initiates signal transduction cascades that are regulated by protein phosphorylation. The earliest signaling events occur within minutes and include ion fluxes across the plasma membrane, activation of MAPKs, and the formation of reactive oxygen species. The phosphorylation events that regulate these signaling cascades are largely unknown. Here we present a mass spectrometry-based quantitative phosphoproteomics approach that identified differentially phosphorylated sites in signaling and response proteins from Arabidopsis cells treated with either flg22 or xylanase. Our approach was sensitive enough to quantitate phosphorylation on low abundance signaling proteins such as calcium-dependent protein kinases and receptor-like kinase family members. With this approach we identified one or more differentially phosphorylated sites in 76 membrane-associated proteins including a number of defense-related proteins. Our data on phosphorylation indicate a high degree of complexity at the level of post-translational modification as exemplified by the complex modification patterns of respiratory burst oxidase protein D. Furthermore the data also suggest that protein translocation and vesicle traffic are important aspects of early signaling and defense in response to general elicitors. Our study presents the largest quantitative Arabidopsis phosphoproteomics data set to date and provides a new resource that can be used to gain novel insight into plant defense signal transduction and early defense response. Plants have developed various elaborate mechanisms to ward off pathogen attack. Whereas some of these defense mechanisms are preformed and provide physical and chemical barriers to hinder pathogen infection, others are induced only upon pathogen perception. These different layers of defense include basal defense and resistance (R) 1The abbreviations used are: R, resistance; BIK1, Botrytis-Induced Kinase1; CDPK, calcium-dependent protein kinase; flg22, conserved 22-amino acid sequence of flagellin of pathogenic Pseudomonas; LTQ, linear ion trap; MAP, mitogen-activated protein; MAPK, mitogen-activated protein kinase; PM, plasma membrane; RLK, receptor-like kinase; ROI, reactive oxygen intermediate; SCX, strong cation exchange chromatography; SILAC, stable isotope labeling by amino acids in cell culture; SNARE, soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor attachment protein receptor; TiO2, titanium oxide; ABC, ATP-binding cassette; RBOHD, respiratory burst oxidase protein D. -gene-mediated defenses. Plants use R-gene products to recognize the presence or activity of specific pathogen avirulence gene products produced by specific races of microbial pathogens in a so-called gene-for-gene interaction. A specific match between an avirulence gene product and the corresponding R-gene product leads to hypersensitive response and activation of defense responses. In addition to R-gene-mediated defense plants rely on recognition of general elicitors, also called pathogen-associated molecular patterns, to detect potential pathogens and to activate basal defense (1Nurnberger T. Brunner F. Kemmerling B. Piater L. Innate immunity in plants and animals: striking similarities and obvious differences.Immunol. Rev. 2004; 198: 249-266Crossref These general elicitors are of that are by plants plasma The general flagellin in Arabidopsis a conserved 22-amino acid sequence the receptor-like kinase and a response that the of reactive oxygen activation of a and activation of defense gene T. L. T. kinase in Arabidopsis L. T. A to flagellin in Arabidopsis T. elicitors activation and phosphorylation of the Arabidopsis Furthermore of flg22, as as general elicitors, by Arabidopsis resistance pathogens L. T. resistance in Arabidopsis flagellin 2004; Perception of avirulence gene products and general elicitors signal transduction cascades and early defense to the of the pathogen into A study that response in Arabidopsis and response in a of L. T. The response to and with defense and 2004; Furthermore B. T. F. of Arabidopsis and with the pathogen have that the in response to and and that the in on the quantitative of the defense response B. T. F. of Arabidopsis and with the pathogen The signal transduction by general elicitors and products are on plant defense signaling on the of the signal transduction the of with defense a of defense signaling the molecular mechanisms these signaling and have to an important protein phosphorylation in defense in the kinase in T. of a protein kinase gene resistance in and kinase in T. B. A protein by the resistance the resistance to in receptor-like kinase in Arabidopsis to L. T. resistance in Arabidopsis flagellin 2004; of kinase kinase and Arabidopsis also resistance D. B. B. an mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase immunity and in of the mitogen-activated protein kinase resistance in 2004; The of general elicitors and signal transduction with and and more with in T. L. T. kinase in Arabidopsis T. Plants have a sensitive the conserved of of the and protein phosphorylation in of in of differentially proteins in Arabidopsis cell of in the of Arabidopsis cell induced by T. T. burst in Arabidopsis pathogen to the of early signaling including ion fluxes across the plasma membrane, in protein phosphorylation and activation of and calcium-dependent protein kinases and the of reactive oxygen oxidase and and of and acid of the and protein phosphorylation in of in T. T. burst in Arabidopsis pathogen D. response and signal of general elicitors and R-gene-mediated of avirulence proteins to the activation of cascades and the of defense responses. the proteins that the signal transduction are present in the cell to the of the are by post-translational in complex The post-translational modification in signal transduction protein phosphorylation. protein kinases and have identified with a in defense signaling and and have in signaling to be of the with a plasma early signaling and are plasma membrane-associated proteins. that membrane-associated proteins have one or more phosphorylation sites of the Arabidopsis plasma and a new phosphorylation 2004; Furthermore phosphorylated proteins have in the of Arabidopsis cells in response to of in the of Arabidopsis cell induced by the of only a of these The of phosphorylation sites as as the and of the phosphorylation the early signal transduction cascades and defense response in response to general elicitors. of in protein phosphorylation was by labeling cells with by of proteins and mass D. F. T. a protein phosphorylated in response to and in have to complex protein phosphorylated the that a high of proteins are to be phosphorylated at T. The The phosphorylation of proteins on in cell and this phosphorylated low in Furthermore the addition of a in a in in by mass and the and quantitative in of have to these and phosphorylation sites in of proteins of the Arabidopsis plasma and a new phosphorylation 2004; by mass and to B. at the level of from and titanium 2004; these are in the of phosphorylation events to a specific signaling quantitative phosphoproteomics on stable isotope labeling by amino acids in cell have in with cells and in phosphorylation of the and the B. of signaling by quantitative 2004; phosphoproteomics to the signaling and in also be used in with plant cell called and in quantitative phosphoproteomics of signaling by and in and mass to proteins by and on the labeling of the and of with to Here we an quantitative phosphoproteomics on that plant set this quantitative phosphoproteomics approach to the early signaling and response proteins upon of general elicitors by Arabidopsis used a labeling that to phosphorylation of proteins of and cells with mass in phosphorylation of membrane-associated proteins cells treated with the flagellin flg22 and xylanase. in phosphorylation between the data that proteins phosphorylated in response to elicitors be Our data quantitative in phosphorylation of novel membrane-associated proteins as as defense-related proteins. data also to a protein translocation and vesicle early signaling and response. was from The and from flg22 was by was from from The was from and from from cells of Arabidopsis L. B. A gene in Arabidopsis from cell on and The in in with at of of at in at of on either or to treated with or the treated and by with and in and at a of of was a of of and the In the and and with a between and in a on at The was at The was at The was in a and and to of plant plasma and of and of and with and The was in and at to a of in and at of protein of the with a in and with and to a of the was in and with and at was and the was in in and at in more with was and the was in of with at The was with acid and as The was to a of cation exchange was to phosphoproteomics to the signaling on an to the on a in a and on the sensitive of complex by mass with of and to with on a on an in to and at by a of a a on a and to a the of a The was to a of and with in on a as and with of titanium and was the and with of and of with of The was with of acid and at to on an to a mass with a ion was by a of a an of was a linear from A to and in the in with a The mass was in the to between and to in the mass with at to a of in the linear ion The mass by a ion of a mass and of These in the linear ion induced at a of The in the was to a a corresponding to or was the was was also to a to in the mass with at to a of in the linear ion The in the linear ion induced at a of from and to a was the the Arabidopsis Arabidopsis with as a and phosphorylation and as with and an on mass of in and the the with the of proteins with A of was used that to an in the of to a data set with high data as a upon also that be from proteins These to the protein we identified the number of with a of or of the identified by between the of and of the and the of in the ion and ion identified that differentially phosphorylated and that be in of either the flg22 data set or the data set are as of phosphorylated within the the and that differentially phosphorylated or only be in one are as that have a of at and data to the of of within data from Perception of general elicitors at the of the plasma and in a signal transduction used flagellin flg22 and as general elicitors to activate early signal transduction in Arabidopsis Perception of flg22 or kinases in Arabidopsis cells within kinase activity within and on these activation we with flg22 or The signaling events are to occur at the of the plasma we set to signal transduction proteins with the plasma in a in complexity of the and to on the earliest signaling used Arabidopsis plasma of signal transduction and 2004; of new proteins in Arabidopsis plasma 2004; of in phosphorylated proteins by ion and mass to plasma the of the we the and by with specific proteins of different a and proteins from the these we a of the the vesicle of in phosphorylated proteins by ion and mass in complexity of the from the of the to in D. of cell 2004; was B. at the level of from and titanium 2004; in the presence of high of acid of phosphorylated from titanium that early of phosphorylated also a number of phosphorylated as the we identified phosphorylated and and only a of the mitogen-activated protein kinase resistance in 2004; phosphorylated A more of the of the and the of identified in the The of protein by by the that and in data at these different can be with different mass and a of signal in the to the use of different in can be different between quantitative the are and to the can be by cells on specific acids or on a basal as a so-called labeling D. of protein and SILAC, a labeling that and B. isotope labeling by amino acids in cell SILAC, as a and approach to an to in proteins the mass between the of the of or this the to of these amino acids in plant cells only can be in Arabidopsis isotope labeling of Arabidopsis cells and quantitative by mass In T. labeling of and D. quantitative in with on in labeling with labeling of plant cell can be on a basal as a we Arabidopsis cell in or and isotope by of in of into proteins phosphorylated proteins in early signaling and defense response in we induced cells on with flg22 or and the cells with an of cells that The cells and as high we also an labeling with of the cells and of the cells elicitors. in with titanium by of by by the of acid upon of in a ion sequence and the of and phosphorylation sites phosphoproteomics to the signaling these we mass on an mass an provides to and of phosphorylated including high and mass as as of mass the of by used to to phosphorylated in phosphoproteomics to the signaling of was to an that that the of acid was including can the number of that are an and to the of a was also an of an of a with The an the and of from an flg22 this the between and of the can be the level of phosphorylation in the as with the The the of ion that was and in the The mass in this to the ion The the corresponding and of the ion in the this the amino acid sequence and of the phosphorylated at The corresponding was in an by and amino acid sequence and of the phosphorylated A general of and data that we identified a of Arabidopsis proteins from plasma A of these to have at one of the data with data from plasma with of the Arabidopsis plasma and a new phosphorylation 2004; Arabidopsis plasma of signal transduction and 2004; of new proteins in Arabidopsis plasma 2004; with the data set that also used Arabidopsis cells of proteins of the Arabidopsis plasma and a new phosphorylation 2004; from plants Arabidopsis plasma of signal transduction and 2004; of new proteins in Arabidopsis plasma 2004; only a with data of and of A a study of Arabidopsis proteins an of proteins with data set T. F. the Arabidopsis these proteins as PM, as as as and in this of proteins by isotope T. F. the Arabidopsis this with the data in and that are in proteins. In addition to the with these data of the Arabidopsis plasma and a new phosphorylation 2004; Arabidopsis plasma of signal transduction and 2004; of new proteins in Arabidopsis plasma 2004; T. F. the Arabidopsis we also identified a number of novel membrane-associated proteins. the high level of of plasma of the Arabidopsis plasma and a new phosphorylation 2004; also a number of potential such as proteins In data we identified a of including new with one or more phosphorylated a in identified between data of identified in the cells also in the also a of in only one of the data to the that of complex to of in the of the data with data set from plasma with and of the Arabidopsis plasma and a new phosphorylation 2004; also of of Arabidopsis cells to general elicitors in of kinase With a we to only post-translational and to the of and to in protein phosphorylation and protein the in protein abundance by the of in the A of A novel 2004; and a of was of we to a in and of these one or more phosphorylated proteins that differentially phosphorylated in response to either flg22, or elicitors, we the of the and in of the labeling a of the the of in data of flg22 and a that within or of the that at only a proteins in proteins with a in abundance in in the flg22 of these proteins are obvious the in abundance to translocation to the plasma or protein that translocation of protein to or from the the to this in protein are at addition of an of proteins to the in response to and general elicitors T. activation and in cells treated with T. elicitors of translocation of of oxidase to the plasma of Our data suggest that translocation of these proteins to an response that be to signal transduction or defense response in data that the of the proteins present in in abundance at with elicitors proteins with family family kinase in a new The of the also the of with a that within of the or was the flg22 data set flg22 and data with the data of the that the the are to in phosphorylation and to in protein was by the of the to of from the proteins these the we to only that the the also have to an in protein abundance The corresponding proteins and to be differentially the and the that the of the are by phosphorylation of the corresponding proteins. data we identified proteins that phosphorylated on one or more The of these proteins identified as with the only protein phosphorylation study of the Arabidopsis plasma and a new phosphorylation 2004; we a number of proteins present in data set that are also present as in data was as of the Arabidopsis plasma and a new phosphorylation 2004; from cells with cells induced with flg22 these to between phosphorylated from and labeling we one or more differentially phosphorylated in at corresponding to 76 proteins to be differentially phosphorylated we to the corresponding in and these a that was at from the or These in used to that we high data with differentially phosphorylated A of the level of these data the of the in the as in a the from match the and of of the from with only a in Furthermore this also from the of the in of the differentially phosphorylated proteins identified a number of proteins in signal These include ion protein protein and receptor-like kinases and differentially regulated in a new of the of phosphorylation of between are of the are the to be differentially phosphorylated are as phosphorylated are as The between and a A number of of the differentially phosphorylated proteins are in protein including of different of receptor-like kinases and protein these we proteins that have in defense responses. such Botrytis-Induced a protein kinase that was to be basal defense B. T. The in Arabidopsis resistance to and In the present study we that this protein phosphorylated on and at in response to flg22, that the in phosphorylation of these are important activation and by basal Our identified at and that are differentially phosphorylated in response to flg22 and have be in response to elicitors in cells of including of in cells of and in in response to T. protein kinases an in a plant The that different differentially phosphorylated in response to flg22 to the this of protein kinases in defense signal also to that and differentially phosphorylated in response to flg22 These include the that flg22 perception. corresponding to we one in data and upon flg22 as by D. T. of the recognition in this of in study and in of that we detect the to be the of the phosphorylation of in response to the of flg22, the cell the of general elicitors and into a that a defense response in flg22 was to resistance to in Arabidopsis plants with a protein L. T. resistance in Arabidopsis flagellin 2004; of basal defense resistance induced by in Arabidopsis B. in T. The of resistance in 2004; induced resistance in Arabidopsis have and include and flagellin from induced resistance induced by Rev. the molecular this resistance that of a general flg22 the phosphorylation of in of pathogens that leads to the defense response L. T. resistance in Arabidopsis flagellin 2004; proteins that differentially phosphorylated and have an with defense response include the respiratory burst proteins RBOHD, and proteins identified as differentially phosphorylated in this have with defense or have to be in signaling or responses. these are a number of proteins that are in including and data the of the phosphorylation of these proteins flg22 to response. In Arabidopsis cells and a with flg22 to of L. T. The response to and with defense and 2004; Furthermore of signaling was to resistance to that of the signaling of the plant response L. F. B. A plant to resistance by was by the that of be the in Arabidopsis L. T. A to flagellin in Arabidopsis that activation of a kinase kinase and gene in Arabidopsis of signal transduction by a in flg22 the activation of the differentially phosphorylated response proteins be or of kinases or by a in plant and of acid by a mitogen-activated protein in 2004; F. T. protein kinase and Rev. of the differentially phosphorylated signaling proteins and have phosphorylated or by and that these proteins as phosphorylation of one or more of these signaling proteins a in the of signaling in Arabidopsis to the plants response. In addition to the phosphorylation we also of a number of proteins. and a in phosphorylation upon flg22 Furthermore and and also in response to flg22 In of these also and in abundance that these proteins are in response to a in or activity was to and and defense gene in Arabidopsis and defense in Arabidopsis The Arabidopsis cell signaling to and in to defense responses. of flg22 also the of in Arabidopsis L. T. A to flagellin in Arabidopsis the of proteins indicate that the of to a to 76 proteins in that phosphorylation upon with either or of the proteins that differentially phosphorylated in response to also differentially phosphorylated in response to flg22 in proteins identified that differentially phosphorylated in response to and of these also differentially phosphorylated in response to flg22 the corresponding be in be to as of complex in of the and of some of the differentially phosphorylated proteins and have to defense and phosphorylation in response to elicitors conserved in different defense signal transduction The was as a that and by resistance at the plant cell protein was differentially phosphorylated on in response to elicitors. a was also differentially phosphorylated in response to flg22 on an that protein to at the of pathogen Arabidopsis an to resistance to pathogens that by and the phosphorylation sites we identified be in the activation of in response to general perception. The of the differentially phosphorylated proteins we identified have a number of the proteins we identified as differentially phosphorylated in response to flg22 or have as defense signaling or defense response. of these proteins the respiratory burst protein burst as the of reactive oxygen by and and a of pathogen recognition in plants T. T. burst in Arabidopsis pathogen of the respiratory burst oxidase in and of reactive oxygen in Arabidopsis cell in response to an from basal in a family in Arabidopsis are as one of the of are upon pathogen and of in to of and to to cell upon from the burst the plant hypersensitive resistance that in and in Arabidopsis have only a on the hypersensitive and can cell of the respiratory burst oxidase in and Arabidopsis and are of reactive oxygen in the plant defense In response to flg22, Arabidopsis with reactive oxygen within and this burst L. T. A to flagellin in Arabidopsis In response to a with flg22 and we phosphorylation on different in of phosphorylation upon and flg22 also this the in phosphorylation can be to phosphorylation of In elicitors phosphorylation at flg22 to a quantitative phosphorylation. These data that regulated by phosphorylation as differentially phosphorylated in response to flg22 or and differentially phosphorylated in response to A potential differentially phosphorylated identified in one be in the of of the protein in a be to the of the differentially phosphorylated in response to general elicitors or pathogen are in that phosphorylated in response to general elicitors that the activity of regulated by different kinases in or in response to general perception. of proteins with defense response and differentially phosphorylated in response to flg22 also as resistance resistance to was to be of and defense D. F. and to resistance in The defense on the signaling layers to and D. F. and to resistance in that defense and defense are upon pathogen and be pathogen-associated molecular or general was in on the that and induced in response to flg22 L. T. resistance in Arabidopsis flagellin 2004; Our data on phosphorylation of in response to flg22 and suggest that defense also be regulated at the post-translational Furthermore we that also phosphorylated on the upon flg22 the of from the of the was upon of a we identified phosphorylated with a of phosphorylation sites in the cells was to be phosphorylated on a specific in response to flg22 T. A plasma phosphorylated in response to the also a differentially phosphorylated in and phosphorylated of In we also a in only was this have a be differentially phosphorylated in response to flg22 that that phosphorylated in response to and soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor attachment protein and plasma into plasma sites D. L. The a novel upon and the of 2004; and of plant resistance in a plasma was as a in and was to have a basal in and a defense-related resistance at the plant cell D. L. The a novel upon and the of 2004; proteins a in vesicle in these have as the of a resistance D. F. and to resistance in In addition to and we also identified proteins in vesicle to be differentially phosphorylated in response to flg22 and or xylanase. elicitors induced phosphorylation of a protein and and a was also phosphorylated in response to proteins have to be in vesicle The protein of a Furthermore the protein was also phosphorylated in response to and was phosphorylated in response to flg22 are that the of The and Rev. 2004; and the data on phosphorylation of vesicle proteins vesicle traffic as an important response upon general and some of these proteins to be of the by D. F. and to resistance in The of the D. T. of the recognition in the of vesicle traffic in responses. flg22 the of and and this on protein kinase in protein abundance of in this be to the we as with the earliest D. T. of the recognition in data to the of and vesicle traffic in response to general perception. a stable isotope labeling with of and we to a number of protein phosphorylation events in Arabidopsis With this we identified novel phosphorylation sites in proteins and that some of these are differentially phosphorylated in response to general elicitors. These differentially phosphorylated proteins are potential new signal transduction or early response and provide a of on early signaling and response in Arabidopsis of these proteins by of the identified phosphorylation or be to in Our can also be to or to to early signal transduction proteins signal transduction in Our study the largest quantitative Arabidopsis phosphoproteomics data set to date and that the early response at the protein level at the level of post-translational in on the data set that the response to an by the plant a complex of signaling that a approach to the phosphoproteomics as in this study a novel that can and to the molecular of of and plant signal transduction and early response proteins.