[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: ethnobotany traditional medicine biological activi | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: ethnobotany traditional medicine biological activity]

75. Plants (Basel). 2023 Mar 9;12(6):1245. doi: 10.3390/plants12061245.

A Comprehensive Review on Cannabis sativa Ethnobotany, Phytochemistry, Molecular 
Docking and Biological Activities.

Hourfane S(1), Mechqoq H(1), Bekkali AY(1), Rocha JM(2)(3), El Aouad N(1).

Author information:
(1)Research Team on Natural Products Chemistry and Smart Technology (NPC-ST), 
Polydisciplinary Faculty of Larache, Route de Rabat, Abdelmalek Essaadi 
University, Tetouan 92000, Morocco.
(2)LEPABE-Laboratory for Process Engineering, Environment, Biotechnology and 
Energy, Faculty of Engineering, University of Porto, Rua Dr. Roberto Frias, s/n, 
4200-465 Porto, Portugal.
(3)ALiCE-Associate Laboratory in Chemical Engineering, Faculty of Engineering, 
University of Porto, Rua Dr. Roberto Frias, s/n, 4200-465 Porto, Portugal.

For more than a century, Cannabis was considered a narcotic and has been banned 
by lawmakers all over the world. In recent years, interest in this plant has 
increased due to its therapeutic potential, in addition to a very interesting 
chemical composition, characterized by the presence of an atypical family of 
molecules known as phytocannabinoids. With this emerging interest, it is very 
important to take stock of what research has been conducted so far on the 
chemistry and biology of Cannabis sativa. The aim of this review is to describe 
the traditional uses, chemical composition and biological activities of 
different parts of this plant, as well as the molecular docking studies. 
Information was collected from electronic databases, namely SciFinder, 
ScienceDirect, PubMed and Web of Science. Cannabis is mainly popular for its 
recreational use, but it is also traditionally used as remedy for the treatment 
of several diseases, including diabetes, digestive, circulatory, genital, 
nervous, urinary, skin and respiratory diseases. These biological proprieties 
are mainly due to the presence of bioactive metabolites represented by more than 
550 different molecules. Molecular docking simulations proved the presence of 
affinities between Cannabis compounds and several enzymes responsible for 
anti-inflammatory, antidiabetic, antiepileptic and anticancer activities. 
Several biological activities have been evaluated on the metabolites of Cannabis 
sativa, and these works have shown the presence of antioxidant, antibacterial, 
anticoagulant, antifungal, anti-aflatoxigenic, insecticidal, anti-inflammatory, 
anticancer, neuroprotective and dermocosmetic activities. This paper presents 
the up-to-date reported investigations and opens many reflections and further 
research perspectives.

DOI: 10.3390/plants12061245
PMCID: PMC10058143
PMID: 36986932

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.