[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: traditional Chinese medicine herbs mechanism actio | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: traditional Chinese medicine herbs mechanism action]

55. Arch Dermatol. 1998 Nov;134(11):1388-93. doi: 10.1001/archderm.134.11.1388.

Traditional Chinese medicine for the treatment of dermatologic disorders.

Koo J(1), Arain S.

Author information:
(1)Psoriasis Treatment Center, University of California, San Francisco, USA.

Traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) is an alternative method of therapy that can 
be administered in oral, topical, or injectable forms. It emphasizes the 
importance of using many herbs that are combined in different formulations for 
each individual patient. Among some segments of the patient population, it has 
become increasingly popular as a mode for treating dermatologic diseases. As a 
result, it is now worthwhile for dermatologists throughout the West to gain some 
familiarity with this method. Yet, dermatologists are largely unfamiliar with 
TCM and may possess some misconceptions. We attempt to give a general overview 
of TCM through the discussion of different clinical studies involving various 
TCMs. Some proposed mechanisms of action of TCM are also presented. A discussion 
of adverse effects, including hepatotoxic effects and the need for close 
monitoring is discussed. A warning regarding the possible contamination of TCMs 
is also included. Since it is not possible to discuss the application of TCM for 
every skin disorder, psoriasis and atopic dermatitis are used as the prototype 
in illustrating the use of TCM. In the future, perhaps a better understanding of 
TCM will be gained through more systematic analysis and controlled studies with 
a placebo arm. It is our hope that this article will provide an overview of the 
efficacy, mechanism of action, as well as adverse effects of TCM.

DOI: 10.1001/archderm.134.11.1388
PMID: 9828872 [Indexed for MEDLINE]