[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: magnetic resonance spectroscopy metabolite brain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: magnetic resonance spectroscopy metabolite brain]

14. Pediatr Res. 2022 Jul;92(1):299-306. doi: 10.1038/s41390-021-01434-5. Epub
2021  Mar 2.

Magnetic resonance spectroscopy brain metabolites at term and 3-year 
neurodevelopmental outcomes in very preterm infants.

Illapani VSP(1), Edmondson DA(2), Cecil KM(2)(3), Altaye M(4), Kumar M(5), 
Harpster K(6), Parikh NA(7)(8).

Author information:
(1)Division of Neonatology, Department of Pediatrics, Cincinnati Children's 
Hospital Medical Center, Cincinnati, OH, USA.
(2)Imaging Research Center, Department of Radiology, Cincinnati Children's 
Hospital Medical Center, Cincinnati, OH, USA.
(3)Department of Radiology, University of Cincinnati College of Medicine, 
Cincinnati, OH, USA.
(4)Division of Biostatistics and Epidemiology, Department of Pediatrics, 
Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center, Cincinnati, OH, USA.
(5)Department of Neuroimaging and Interventional Radiology, National Institute 
of Mental Health & Neurosciences (NIMHANS), Bengaluru, India.
(6)Division of Occupational Therapy and Physical Therapy, Department of 
Pediatrics, Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center, Cincinnati, OH, USA.
(7)Division of Neonatology, Department of Pediatrics, Cincinnati Children's 
Hospital Medical Center, Cincinnati, OH, USA. Nehal.Parikh@cchmc.org.
(8)Department of Pediatrics, University of Cincinnati College of Medicine, 
Cincinnati, OH, USA. Nehal.Parikh@cchmc.org.

BACKGROUND: Noninvasive advanced neuroimaging and neurochemical assessment can 
identify subtle abnormalities and predict neurodevelopmental impairments. Our 
objective was to quantify white matter metabolite levels and evaluate their 
relationship with neurodevelopmental outcomes at age 3 years.
METHODS: Our study evaluated a longitudinal prospective cohort of very premature 
infants (<32 weeks gestational age) with single-voxel proton magnetic resonance 
spectroscopy from the centrum semiovale performed at term-equivalent age and 
standardized cognitive, verbal, and motor assessments at 3 years corrected age. 
We separately examined metabolite ratios in the left and right centrum 
semiovale. We also conducted an exploratory interaction analysis for high/low 
socioeconomic status (SES) to evaluate the relationship between metabolites and 
neurodevelopmental outcomes, after adjusting for confounders.
RESULTS: We found significant relationships between choline/creatine levels in 
the left and right centrum semiovale and motor development scores. Exploratory 
interaction analyses revealed that, for infants with low SES, there was a 
negative association between choline/creatine in the left centrum semiovale and 
motor assessment scores at age 3 years.
CONCLUSIONS: Brain metabolites from the centrum semiovale at term-equivalent age 
were associated with motor outcomes for very preterm infants at 3 years 
corrected age. This effect may be most pronounced for infants with low SES.
IMPACT: Motor development at 3 years corrected age for very preterm infants is 
inversely associated with choline neurochemistry within the centrum semiovale on 
magnetic resonance spectroscopy at term-equivalent age, especially in infants 
with low socioeconomic status. No prior studies have studied metabolites in the 
centrum semiovale to predict neurodevelopmental outcomes at 3 years corrected 
age based on high/low socioeconomic status. For very preterm infants with lower 
socioeconomic status, higher choline-to-creatine ratio in central white matter 
is associated with worse neurodevelopmental outcomes.

© 2021. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to the International Pediatric 
Research Foundation, Inc.

DOI: 10.1038/s41390-021-01434-5
PMCID: PMC8410891
PMID: 33654289 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure Statement: None of the authors have 
any conflicts of interest to disclose.