[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: A Modern Herbal — Mrs. M. Grieve | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# A Modern Herbal — Mrs. M. Grieve — Overview

beginning of the sixteenth century, Copernicus gained from the Pythagoreans the crude notion of the earth's movement round a great central fire, and from it he elaborated the theory which was to revolutionize thought. Another half-century later the works of Archimedes were translated into Latin and for the first time printed. They thus became well known before the time of Galileo, who also carefully studied them. At the beginning of the seventeenth century
Galileo made the capital discoveries which established both the
Copernican theory and the science of dynamics. Galileo's death in 1642
coincides with the birth of Sir Isaac Newton. Such is the sequence of the most influential names at the turning-point
of modern thought. Galileo's work, his experiments with falling bodies and the revelations
of his telescope, carried the strategic lines of Greek science across
the frontiers of a New World, and Newton laid down the lines of
permanent occupation and organized the conquest. Organization, the
formation of a network of lines connected as a whole, and giving access
to different parts of the world of experience, is perhaps the best image
of the growth of science in the mind of mankind. It will be seen that it
does not imply any exhaustion of the field, nor any identification of
all knowledge with exact or systematic knowledge. The process is rather
one of gradual penetration, the linking up and extension of the area of
knowledge by well-defined and connected methods of thought. No
all-embracing plan thought out beforehand by the first founders of
science, or any of their successors, can be applied systematically to
the whole range of our experience. It has not been so in the past; still
less does it seem possible in the future. For the most part the
discoverer works on steadily in his own plot, occupying the nearest
places first, and observing here and there that one of his lines runs
into some one else's. Every now and then a greater and more
comprehensive mind appears, able to treat several systems as one whole,
to survey a larger area and extend that empire of the mind which, as
Bacon tells us, is nobler than any other. Of such conquerors Newton was the greatest we have yet known, because he
brought together into one system more and further-reaching lines of
communication than any one else. He unified the forms of measurement
which had previously been treated as the separate subjects of geometry,
astronomy, and the newly-born science of dynamics. Celestial mechanics
embraces all three, and is a fresh and decisive proof of the commanding
influence of the heavenly bodies on human life and thought. Not by a
horoscope, but by continued and systematic thought, humanity was
unravelling its nature and destiny in the stars as well as in itself. These are the two approaches to perfect knowledge which are converging
more and more closely in our own time. Newton's work was the longest
step yet taken on the mechanical side, and we must complete our notice
of it by the briefest possible reference to the later workers on the
same line, before turning to the sciences of life which began their more
systematic evolution with the discovery of Harvey, a contemporary of
Newton. The seventeenth century, with Descartes' application of algebra to
geometry, and Newton's and Leibnitz's invention of the differential and
integral calculus, improved our methods of calculation to such a point
that summary methods of vastly greater comprehensiveness and elasticity
can be applied to any problem of which the elements can be measured. The
mere improvement in the method of describing the same things (cf. e.g. a
geometrical problem as written down by Archimedes with any modern
treatise) was in itself a revolution. But the new calculus went much
farther. It enabled us to represent, in symbols which may be dealt with
arithmetically, any form of regular movement. As movement is universal, and the most obvious external manifestation of
life itself, the hopes of a mathematical treatment of all phenomena are
indefinitely enlarged, for all fresh laws or forms might conceivably be
expressed as differential equations. So to the vision of a Poincare the
human power of prediction appears to have no assignable theoretical
limit. The seventeenth century which witnessed this momentous extension of
mathematical methods, also contains the cognate foundation of scientific
physics. Accurate measurement began to be applied to the phenomena of
light and heat, the expansion of gases, the various changes in the forms
of matter apart from life. The eighteenth century which continued this
work, is also and most notably marked by the establishment of a
scientific chemistry. In this again we see a further extension of
accurate measurement: another order of things different in quality began
to be treated by a quantitative analysis. Lavoisier's is the greatest
name. He gave a clear and logical classification of the chemical
elements then known, which served as useful a purpose in that science,
as classificatory systems in botany and zoology have done in those
cases.