[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: cannabis cannabidiol therapeutic epilepsy pain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: cannabis cannabidiol therapeutic epilepsy pain]

58. Phytother Res. 2024 Jan;38(1):74-81. doi: 10.1002/ptr.8028. Epub 2023 Oct 6.

Pharmacovigilance of unlicensed cannabidiol in European countries.

Calapai F(1)(2), Esposito E(1), Ammendolia I(1)(2), Mannucci C(3), Calapai G(1), 
Currò M(2), Cardia L(4), Chinou I(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical, Biological, Pharmaceutical and Environmental 
Sciences, University of Messina, Messina, Italy.
(2)Department of Clinical and Experimental Medicine, University of Messina, 
Messina, Italy.
(3)Department of Biomedical and Dental Sciences and Morphological and Functional 
Imaging, University of Messina, Messina, Italy.
(4)Department of Human Pathology of Adult and Childhood "Gaetano Barresi", 
University of Messina, Messina, Italy.
(5)Laboratory of Pharmacognosy and Chemistry of Natural Products, Faculty of 
Pharmacy, National and Kapodistrian University of Athens, Athens, Greece.

Cannabidiol (CBD) is a multitarget agent possessing anti-inflammatory and 
antioxidant properties. Unlicensed CBD gained public favor for the care of 
general health and well-being as well as to get comfort from inflammatory 
complaints, pain, anxiety, mood, and sleep disorders. Safety profile of 
unlicensed CBD has been not sufficiently described. For this reason, suspected 
adverse reactions (SARs) to CBD unlicensed products were analyzed. Serious SARs 
to unlicensed CBD products in EudraVigilance, a system purchased by the European 
Medicines Agency, were analyzed for age, sex of the patient, adverse reactions, 
indication for use, and concomitant drugs. Serious SARs were 18.9% of all 
adverse events to unlicensed CBD; they were more frequent in men and adult 
people and, to a less extent, in children (3-11 years). About sex, in 
EudraVigilance serious Individual Cases Safety Reports of SARs to CBD in men are 
in the largest number (58.8%) with respect to women. Unlicensed CBD was used in 
the 38.8% of cases for treatment of epilepsy; more frequent adverse effects 
were: mental disorders, hepatic disorders, and aggravation of pre-existing 
epilepsy. Drugs or substances more frequently associated with SARs were the 
antiepileptics clobazam and valproic acid, followed by cannabis. Results suggest 
that precautions and appropriate surveillance of adverse effects should be taken 
when unlicensed CBD is used.

© 2023 The Authors. Phytotherapy Research published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/ptr.8028
PMID: 37800192 [Indexed for MEDLINE]