[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: crystal structure protein drug target binding | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: crystal structure protein drug target binding]

93. J Control Release. 2015 Dec 28;220(Pt A):229-238. doi: 
10.1016/j.jconrel.2015.10.035. Epub 2015 Oct 21.

Modulation of vincristine and doxorubicin binding and release from silk films.

Coburn JM(1), Na E(2), Kaplan DL(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Tufts University, Medford, MA, USA.
(2)Department of Biochemistry, Tufts University, Medford, MA, USA.
(3)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Tufts University, Medford, MA, USA. 
Electronic address: david.kaplan@tufts.edu.

Sustained release drug delivery systems remain a major clinical need for small 
molecule therapeutics in oncology. Here, mechanisms of small molecule 
interactions with silk protein films were studied with cationic oncology drugs, 
vincristine and doxorubicin, with a focus on hydrophobicity (non-ionic 
surfactant) and charge (pH and ionic strength). Interactions were primarily 
driven by charge interactions between the positively charged drugs and the 
negatively charged groups within the silk films. Exploiting chemical 
modifications of silk further modulated the drug interactions in a controlled 
fashion. Increasing anionic side groups via carboxylate- and 
sulfonate-modifications of tyrosine side chains in the silk protein using 
diazonium coupling chemistry, increased drug binding and altered drug release. 
The effects of silk film protein crystallinity, beta sheet content, on drug 
binding and release were also explored. Lower crystallinity supported more rapid 
drug binding when compared to higher crystalline silk films. The drug release 
kinetics were governed by the protonation state of vincristine and doxorubicin 
and were tunable based on silk crystallinity and chemistry. These studies depict 
an approach to characterize small molecule-silk protein interactions and methods 
to tune drug binding and release kinetics from this protein delivery matrix.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jconrel.2015.10.035
PMCID: PMC4957972
PMID: 26500149 [Indexed for MEDLINE]