[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: pharmacognosy medicinal plant active compound isol | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: pharmacognosy medicinal plant active compound isolation]

1. Molecules. 2020 Mar 13;25(6):1324. doi: 10.3390/molecules25061324.

Pharmacological Update Properties of Aloe Vera and its Major Active 
Constituents.

Sánchez M(1), González-Burgos E(1), Iglesias I(1), Gómez-Serranillos MP(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Pharmacognosy and Botany, Faculty of Pharmacy, 
Universidad Complutense de Madrid (UCM), 28040 Madrid, Spain.

Aloe vera has been traditionally used to treat skin injuries (burns, cuts, 
insect bites, and eczemas) and digestive problems because its anti-inflammatory, 
antimicrobial, and wound healing properties. Research on this medicinal plant 
has been aimed at validating traditional uses and deepening the mechanism of 
action, identifying the compounds responsible for these activities. The most 
investigated active compounds are aloe-emodin, aloin, aloesin, emodin, and 
acemannan. Likewise, new actions have been investigated for Aloe vera and its 
active compounds. This review provides an overview of current pharmacological 
studies (in vitro, in vivo, and clinical trials), written in English during the 
last six years (2014-2019). In particular, new pharmacological data research has 
shown that most studies refer to anti-cancer action, skin and digestive 
protective activity, and antimicrobial properties. Most recent works are in 
vitro and in vivo. Clinical trials have been conducted just with Aloe vera, but 
not with isolated compounds; therefore, it would be interesting to study the 
clinical effect of relevant metabolites in different human conditions and 
pathologies. The promising results of these studies in basic research encourage 
a greater number of clinical trials to test the clinical application of Aloe 
vera and its main compounds, particularly on bone protection, cancer, and 
diabetes.

DOI: 10.3390/molecules25061324
PMCID: PMC7144722
PMID: 32183224 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.