[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: optical coherence tomography retinal diagnosis | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: optical coherence tomography retinal diagnosis]

25. Retina. 2018 Jan;38(1):108-117. doi: 10.1097/IAE.0000000000001503.

OPTICAL COHERENCE TOMOGRAPHY FINDINGS IN CYTOMEGALOVIRUS RETINITIS: A 
Longitudinal Study.

Invernizzi A(1), Agarwal A(2)(3), Ravera V(1), Oldani M(1), Staurenghi G(1), 
Viola F(4).

Author information:
(1)Eye Clinic, Department of Biomedical and Clinical Science "Luigi Sacco," 
Luigi Sacco Hospital, University of Milan, Milan, Italy.
(2)Stanley M. Truhlsen Eye Institute, University of Nebraska Medical Center, 
Omaha, Nebraska.
(3)Advanced Eye Center, Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research 
(PGIMER), Chandigarh, India.
(4)Department of Clinical Sciences and Community Health, University of Milan, 
Ophthalmological Unit, IRCCS-Cà Granda Foundation-Ospedale Maggiore Policlinico, 
Milan, Italy.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the vitreal, retinal, and choroidal features using spectral 
domain optical coherence tomography (SD-OCT) in eyes affected by cytomegalovirus 
(CMV) retinitis.
METHODS: Patients diagnosed with either active or inactive CMV retinitis were 
included in the study. Complete ophthalmic examination, serial color fundus 
photography, and SD-OCT (with and without enhanced depth imaging function) were 
performed for all the subjects at baseline and follow-up visits. The SD-OCT 
images were analyzed by two independent graders to evaluate the structural 
changes in areas of CMV retinitis. Prevalence data for vitreal, retinal, and 
choroidal SD-OCT features were collected.
RESULTS: Twelve eyes from 9 patients (6 males, mean age: 52.7 ± 10.3 years) were 
enrolled. Nine eyes were diagnosed with active CMV retinitis at baseline. Active 
disease SD-OCT characteristic findings included nebulous vitritis (100%), 
posterior hyaloid thickening (83.3%), epiretinal membrane (100%), and retinal 
swelling (100%). Two distinct patterns of chorioretinal involvement were 
observed in active retinitis: 1) full-thickness retinitis (Full thickness 
retinitis) (n = 7 eyes) with choriocapillaris alterations and retinal pigment 
epithelial thickening and 2) cavernous retinitis (n = 3 eyes) characterized by 
inner retinal hyperreflectivity, large empty spaces in outer nuclear layer, and 
bridges of retinal tissue but retinal pigment epithelium and choriocapillaris 
sparing. Patients with cavernous retinitis develop retinal detachment during 
follow-up. Eyes with Full thickness retinitis developed choriocapillaris atrophy 
and choroidal thinning and retinal scars as the lesions healed.
CONCLUSION: There are two distinct patterns of chorioretinal involvement in CMV 
retinitis. SD-OCT is a useful tool in the diagnosis, management, and prediction 
of the outcome of CMV retinitis.

DOI: 10.1097/IAE.0000000000001503
PMID: 28145973 [Indexed for MEDLINE]