[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Propulsion Mechanics | Topic: Ammonium perchlorate composite propellant | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Ammonium perchlorate composite propellant — Overview

content to ensure a combustion environment with a higher net oxidizing potential, ensuring more complete aluminium combustion. Aluminium combustion inside the motor is the rate-limiting pathway since the liquid-aluminium droplets (even still liquid at temperatures 3000 K) limit the reaction to a heterogeneous globule interface, making the surface area to volume ratio an important factor in determining the combustion residence time and required combustion chamber size/length. Particle size 
The propellant particle size distribution has a profound impact on APCP rocket motor performance. Smaller AP and Al particles lead to higher combustion efficiency but also lead to increased linear burn rate. The burn rate is heavily dependent on mean AP particle size as the AP absorbs heat to decompose into a gas before it can oxidize the fuel components. This process may be a rate-limiting step in the overall combustion rate of APCP. The phenomenon can be explained by considering the heat-flux-to-mass ratio: As the particle radius increases the volume (and, therefore, mass and heat capacity) increases as the cube of the radius. However, the surface area increases as the square of the radius, which is roughly proportional to the heat flux into the particle. Therefore, a particle's rate of temperature rise is maximized when the particle size is minimized. Common APCP formulations call for 30–400 µm AP particles (often spherical), as well as 2–50 µm Al particles (often spherical). Because of the size discrepancy between the AP and Al, Al will often take an interstitial position in a pseudo-lattice of AP particles. Characteristics

Geometric
APCP deflagrates from the surface of exposed propellant in the combustion chamber. In this fashion, the geometry of the propellant inside the rocket motor plays an important role in the overall motor performance. As the surface of the propellant burns, the shape evolves (a subject of study in internal ballistics), most often changing the propellant surface area exposed to the combustion gases. The mass flux (kg/s) [and therefore pressure] of combustion gases generated is a function of the instantaneous surface area  (m2), propellant density  (kg/m3), and linear burn rate  (m/s):

 

Several geometric configurations are often used depending on the application and desired thrust curve:

 Circular bore: if in BATES configuration, produces progressive-regressive thrust curve. End burner: propellant burns from one axial end to another producing steady long burn, though has thermal difficulties, CG shift. C-slot: propellant with large wedge cut out of the side (along axial direction), producing fairly long regressive thrust, though has thermal difficulties and asymmetric CG characteristics. Moon burner: off-center circular bore produces progressive-regressive long burn though has slight asymmetric CG characteristics. Finocyl: usually a 5 or 6 legged star-like shape that can produce very level thrust, with a bit quicker burn than circular bore due to increased surface area. Burn rate
While the surface area can be easily tailored by careful geometric design of the propellant, the burn rate is dependent on several subtle factors:

 Propellant chemical composition. AP, Al, additive particle sizes. Combustion pressure. Heat transfer characteristics. Erosive burning (high-velocity flow moving past the propellant). Initial temperature of propellant. In summary, however, most formulations have a burn rate between 1–3 mm/s at STP and 6–12 mm/s at 68 atm. The burn characteristics (such as linear burn rate) are often determined prior to rocket motor firing using a strand burner test. This test allows the APCP manufacturer to characterize the burn rate as a function of pressure. Empirically, APCP adheres fairly well to the following power-function model:

 

It is worth noting that typically for APCP, n is 0.3–0.5 indicating that APCP is sub-critically pressure sensitive. That is, if surface area were maintained constant during a burn the combustion reaction would not run away to (theoretically) infinite as the pressure would reach an internal equilibrium. This isn't to say that APCP cannot cause an explosion, just that it will not detonate. Thus, any explosion would be caused by the pressure surpassing the burst pressure of the container (rocket motor). Model/high-power rocketry applications 

Commercial APCP rocket engines usually come in the form of reloadable motor systems (RMS) and fully assembled single-use rocket motors. For RMS, the APCP "grains" (cylinders of propellant) are loaded into the reusable motor casing along with a sequence of insulator disks and o-rings and a (graphite or glass-filled phenolic resin) nozzle. The motor casing and closures are typically bought separately from the motor manufacturer and are often precision-machined from aluminium. The assembled RMS contains both reusable (typically metal) and disposable components. The major APCP suppliers for hobby use are:
 Aerotech Consumer Aerospace
 Cesaroni Technology
 Loki Research
 Gorilla Rocket Motors

To achieve different visual effects and flight characteristics, hobby APCP suppliers offer a variety of different characteristic propellant types.