[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: herbal medicine drug interaction pharmacokinetics | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: herbal medicine drug interaction pharmacokinetics]

68. PLoS One. 2017 Aug 10;12(8):e0182794. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0182794. 
eCollection 2017.

A systematic review of the pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic interactions of 
herbal medicine with warfarin.

Choi S(1), Oh DS(1), Jerng UM(2).

Author information:
(1)The K-herb Research Center, Korea Institute of Oriental Medicine, Daejeon, 
South Korea.
(2)Clinical Research Division, Korea Institute of Oriental Medicine, Daejeon, 
South Korea.

OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study was to systematically review data regarding 
pharmacokinetic (PK)-pharmacodynamic (PD) parameters from randomized controlled 
trials relating to interactions between herbal medicines and warfarin.
METHODS: Three electronic databases were searched to identify relevant trials. 
Two reviewers independently performed the study selection and data extraction. 
The risk of bias and reporting quality were also assessed independently by two 
reviewers using the Cochrane risk of bias tool and the consolidated standards of 
reporting trials (CONSORT). Outcomes were measured for all reported PK-PD 
parameters and adverse events.
RESULTS: Nine randomized controlled trials met our inclusion criteria. Most of 
the included studies were unclear regarding the risk of bias and had a low 
quality of methodology. Using CONSORT, the reporting percentages for the 
articles ranged from 36.5% to 61.5% and the mean percentage for all articles was 
45.6%. St John's wort and echinacea affected the PK parameters of warfarin. 
Ginseng, ginger, garlic, and cranberry had no significant effect on the PK 
parameters. American ginseng altered the PD parameters of warfarin. St John's 
wort, ginseng, Korea red ginseng, ginkgo, ginger, garlic, aged garlic, and 
echincea did not significantly alter the PD parameters. Studies of ginkgo and 
cranberry showed conflicting results on the PK parameters and PD parameters, 
respectively. The incidence of adverse events in all trials was low and no major 
adverse events were reported.
CONCLUSIONS: It was difficult to determine whether ten herbal medicines had 
significant effects on the PK-PD parameters of warfarin. Low quality of 
evidence, different compounds within and different compositions of the herbs, 
and methodological limitations of the crossover study, which is a clinical study 
in which subjects receive a sequence of different interventions, made it 
difficult to form conclusions. Additional studies that remedy these 
vulnerabilities are necessary to verify these results.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0182794
PMCID: PMC5552262
PMID: 28797065 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.