[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: crystal structure protein drug target binding | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: crystal structure protein drug target binding]

99. Curr Med Chem. 2000 Sep;7(9):861-88. doi: 10.2174/0929867003374534.

Towards 3D structures of G protein-coupled receptors: a multidisciplinary 
approach.

Müller G(1).

Author information:
(1)Bayer AG, Central Research, ZF-WFM, Leverkusen, Germany. 
gerhard.mueller.gm1@bayer-ag.de

Current strategies in pharmaceutical research comprise two methodologically 
different but complementary approaches for lead finding purposes, namely the 
random screening of compound libraries and the structure-based effort, commonly 
termed rational drug design. The structure-based approach is aimed to exploit 3D 
structure data of the molecular components involved in the molecular recognition 
event that underlies the attempt to therapeutically modulate the biological 
function of a macromolecular target with proven pathophysiological relevance for 
a disease state. In this context, G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) constitute 
the most prominent family of validated drug targets within biomedical research, 
since approximately 60 % of approved drugs elicit their therapeutic effects by 
selectively addressing members of that target family. From a 3D structure point 
of view, these transmembrane signal transduction systems represent the most 
challenging task for structure determination, which is due to the heterogeneous 
and fine-balanced environment conditions that are necessary for structural and 
functional integrity of the receptor protein. This contribution will address the 
different concepts to derive structurally relevant information on the 
transmemebrane seven-helix protein (7TM) domain of GPCRs with special emphasis 
laid on the multidisciplinarity of the applied methodologies. The current status 
of electron-cryo-microscopy on 2D crystals and even high-resolution x-ray 
crystallography on 7TM proteins will be introduced highlighting the 
transferability of the emerging structural principles onto the GPCR superfamily. 
Special techniques from bioinformatics and homology-related molecular modeling 
in combination with tailor-made protein simulation methodologies complement the 
experimentally derived data, in that they facilitate the 3D structure generation 
and structure validation process. This contribution summarises the most recent 
results of GPCR structure studies with the aim to underline the impact of 
structure data not only for the purpose of rationalising structure-activity data 
on low-molecular weight antagonists within the context of a protein binding 
pocket, but also for a better understanding of e.g. mutagenesis experiments, 
thus qualifying GPCR structure models as valid communication platforms 
establishing a functional link between molecular biology, biophysics, 
bioinformatics and organic chemistry in a highly efficient manner.

DOI: 10.2174/0929867003374534
PMID: 10911020 [Indexed for MEDLINE]