[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Propulsion Mechanics | Topic: Space Systems Command | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Space Systems Command — Overview

The Thor and Atlas rocket families would form the core of the United States' space launch fleet. Following its 1958 establishment, NASA immediately began using the Thor for space launches and in 1959 developed the Thor-Delta. The Atlas was adopted by NASA in 1959 and Project Mercury used the Atlas LV-3B for its orbital flights, with the Army's Mercury-Redstone Launch Vehicle used only for sub-orbital flights. Following the launch of Sputnik 1 by the Soviet Union, the Eisenhower administration attempted to centralize all military and civil space programs in the Advanced Research Projects Agency, however responsibility was returned to the military services in September 1959. The U.S. Army was designated as the lead service for communication satellites, the U.S. Navy for navigation satellites, and the U.S. Air Force for reconnaissance and surveillance satellites and space launch vehicles. This split arrangement lasted until March 1961, when Secretary of Defense Robert McNamara assigned the Air Force a near monopoly on military space development, with the exception of reconnaissance programs, which were passed to the National Reconnaissance Office in 1961. The Weapon System 117L program, initially intending to perform a variety of task under different sub-systems, was broken into three different programs in 1959. The Discoverer Program, better known as Corona, was a photographic reconnaissance satellite that ejected film for recovery in-atmosphere. The Discoverers were launched using a Thor-Agena booster, with Discoverer 1 becoming the first satellite to enter a polar orbit and Discoverer 2 was the first to have three-axis stabilization. In 1960, Discoverer 13 was the first to return a capsule when it crashed into the Pacific Ocean and Discoverer 14 marked the first successful return of film when it was recovered in-air by a 6593d Test Squadron Fairchild JC-119 Flying Boxcar. The Satellite and Missile Observation Program (SAMOS), was intended as a heavier counterpart to Discoverer and used the Atlas-Agena booster. SAMOS was intended to collect photographic and electromagnetic reconnaissance data, but instead of returning film capsules to earth, SAMOS would electronically transmit the data to ground stations. However, the technology for electro-optical film readout was not mature and it was canceled by Undersecretary of the Air Force Joseph V. Charyk. The Missile Defense Alarm System (MIDAS) was the third program derived from WS 117L and focused on providing missile warning of ICBMs using infrared sensors. Initial plans called for a constellation of eight spacecraft in polar orbits to monitor the Soviet Union, however due to early satellite failures it remained a test program until 1968. To control these satellites, in 1958 the Air Force Ballistic Missile Division established an interim satellite control facility at Lockheed Missile and Space Division. On 6 April 1959, the 6594th Test Wing was established to operate the facility and on 1 March 1960 it transferred operations to Sunnyvale Air Force Station in California. It also established a global Air Force Satellite Control Network. On 1 November 1959, the 6592nd Support Group was established to manage Los Angeles Air Force Station. The first space missions launched by the Air Force Ballistic Missile Division were not  military, the but scientific Pioneer lunar probes. First directed by the Advanced Research Projects Agency, they were later turned over to NASA. The Thor-Able rocket was specifically developed by the Air Force Ballistic Missile Agency for these lunar missions, which aimed to enhance scientific knowledge and American global prestige during the Cold War. ARPA assigned the Air Force Ballistic Missile Division responsibility for three probes to be launched with the Thor-Able, the Army Ballistic Missile Agency two probes to be launched with the Juno II, and the Naval Ordnance Test Station to provide the imaging system. Pioneer 0, Pioneer 1, and Pioneer 2 were the Air Force Ballistic Missile Division's lunar probes. While Pioneer 0 and Pioneer 2 suffered launch failures and Pioneer 1 only traveled a third of the way to the Moon, it was world's first deep space probe and provided information on the extent of the Van Allen radiation belts. Space and missile development under Air Force Systems Command

Space Systems Division
On 1 April 1961, Air Research and Development Command was reorganized as Air Force Systems Command. Space and missile programs had grown to the point where the Air Force Ballistic Missile Division was split on 1 April 1961, with space systems being organized under the Space Systems Division and missile programs under the Ballistic Systems Division. The Ballistic Systems Division, which moved to Norton Air Force Base, continued the work of the Air Force Ballistic Missile Division on second-generation ballistic missiles. The first major missile system it worked on was the LGM-25C Titan II ICBM, which was an improvement over the LGM-25A Titan I.