[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: biomaterial implant osseointegration titanium clin | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: biomaterial implant osseointegration titanium clinical]

62. J Biomed Mater Res B Appl Biomater. 2022 Jul;110(7):1713-1723. doi: 
10.1002/jbm.b.35025. Epub 2022 Feb 1.

How surface coatings on titanium implants affect keratinized tissue: A 
systematic review.

Van den Borre CE(1)(2), Zigterman BGR(2), Mommaerts MY(2), Braem A(3).

Author information:
(1)Doctoral School of Life Sciences and Medicine, Vrije Universiteit Brussel, 
Brussels, Belgium.
(2)European Face Centre, Universitair Ziekenhuis Brussel, Vrije Universiteit 
Brussel, Brussels, Belgium.
(3)Department of Materials Engineering, Biomaterials and Tissue Engineering 
Research Group, KU Leuven, Leuven, Belgium.

Apart from osseointegration, the stability and long-term survival of 
percutaneous titanium implants is also strongly dependent on a qualitative 
soft-tissue integration in the transcutaneous region. A firm connective tissue 
seal is needed to minimize soft-tissue dehiscence and epithelial downgrowth. It 
is well-known that the implant surface plays a key role in controlling the 
biological response of the surrounding keratinized tissue and several coating 
systems have been suggested to enhance the soft-tissue cell interactions. 
Although some promising results have been obtained in vitro, their clinical 
significance can be debated. Therefore, the purpose of this systematic review is 
to gain more insight into the effect of such coatings on the interface formed 
with keratinized soft-tissue in vivo. A comprehensive search was undertaken in 
March 2021. Relevant electronic databases were consulted to identify appropriate 
studies using a set of search strings. In total, 12 out of 4971 publications 
were included in this review. The reported coating systems were assigned to 
several subgroups according to their characteristics: metallic, ceramic and 
composite. Notwithstanding the differences in study characteristics (animal 
model, implantation period, reported outcomes), it was noticed that several 
coatings improve the soft-tissue integration as compared to pristine titanium. 
Porous titanium coatings having only limited pore sizes (<250 μm) do not support 
dermal fibroblast tissue attachment. Yet, larger pores (>700 μm) allow extensive 
vascularized soft-tissue infiltration, thereby supporting cell attachment. 
Nanostructured ceramic coatings are found to reduce the inflammatory response in 
favor of the formation of cell adhesive structures, that is, hemidesmosomes. 
Biomolecule coatings seem of particular interest to stimulate the soft-tissue 
behavior provided that a durable fixation to the implant surface can be ensured. 
In this respect, fibroblast growth factor-2 entrapped in a biomimetic apatite 
coating instigates a close to natural soft-tissue attachment with epidermal 
collagen fibers attaching almost perpendicular to the implant surface. However, 
several studies had limitations with respect to coating characterization and 
detailed soft-tissue analysis, small sample size and short implantation periods. 
To date, robust and long-term in vivo studies are still lacking. Further 
investigation is required before a clear consensus on the optimal coating system 
allowing enhancing the soft-tissue seal around percutaneous titanium implants 
can be reached.

© 2022 The Authors. Journal of Biomedical Materials Research Part B: Applied 
Biomaterials published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/jbm.b.35025
PMCID: PMC9306745
PMID: 35103386 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.