[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: Gorantla Venkanna | Type: Instruction-QA | Level: Graduate]

Question: Provide a comprehensive expert-level explanation of Gorantla Venkanna in the context of Applied Sciences.

Answer:
Gorantla Venkanna Choudary (1871–1947) was a well-known philanthropist, lover and patron of Sanskrit language.

Introduction 
Gorantla Venkanna Chowdary was born in 1871 in a small village Timmasamudram in Prakasam district in what is now the state of Andhra Pradesh, India. His ancestors migrated from Murikipudi (near Narasaraopeta) to Timmasamudram. His parents were Veeranna and Punnamma. The family owned a large estate of  of agricultural land.

Education 
From an early age Venkanna showed inclination towards Sanskrit language and literature, Ayurveda and Yoga. Sanskrit scholar Achyutanna Srirama Sastri was instrumental in influencing the interests of Venkanna. 

Venkanna made a large number of donations to Sanskrit schools, libraries and scholars. He established a high school and Oriental school (GVS High School) in Ongole and a Sanskrit school in Timmasamudram. All the students of these schools receive free accommodation and boarding facilities. The well-known library in Vetapalem known as "Saraswata Niketanam" received substantial contributions from him. 

Venkanna also donated  of land to a trust meant for the encouragement of Sanskrit teaching and preparation of Ayurveda products.

Freedom movement 
Venkanna was an ardent follower of Tanguturi Prakasam Pantulu, the freedom fighter and first Chief Minister of the state of Andhra Pradesh. Mahatma Gandhi was impressed by the selfless service, generosity and philanthropy of Mr Venkanna and visited Timmasamudram twice. Large donation of lands was made to Harijans in the presence of Gandhi. Thousands of homeless people affected by the cyclone of 1936 were fed and liberally helped to make new homes.

Having given up his lands and property for the public good and Sanskrit language, he became an ascetic and led a life of austerity.

He died pn 21 November 1947.

Notes 

Telugu people
1871 births
1947 deaths
People from Prakasam district
Philanthropists from British India