[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: graphene biomedical applications toxicity review | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: graphene biomedical applications toxicity review]

95. Polymers (Basel). 2021 Jun 13;13(12):1962. doi: 10.3390/polym13121962.

Biopolymer and Synthetic Polymer-Based Nanocomposites in Wound Dressing 
Applications: A Review.

Gobi R(1), Ravichandiran P(2)(3)(4), Babu RS(1), Yoo DJ(2)(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physics, School of Advanced Sciences, Vellore Institute of 
Technology, Vellore 632014, India.
(2)R&D Education Center for Whole Life Cycle R&D of Fuel Cell System, Jeonbuk 
National University, Jeonju 54896, Korea.
(3)Department of Life Sciences, College of Natural Sciences, Jeonbuk National 
University, Jeonju 545896, Korea.
(4)Department of Energy Storage/Conversion Engineering of Graduate School, 
Hydrogen and Fuel Cell Research Center, Jeonbuk National University, Jeonju 
545896, Korea.

Biopolymers are materials obtained from a natural origin, such as plants, 
animals, microorganisms, or other living beings; they are flexible, elastic, or 
fibrous materials. Polysaccharides and proteins are some of the natural polymers 
that are widely used in wound dressing applications. In this review paper, we 
will provide an overview of biopolymers and synthetic polymer-based 
nanocomposites, which have promising applications in the biomedical research 
field, such as wound dressings, wound healing, tissue engineering, drug 
delivery, and medical implants. Since these polymers have intrinsic 
biocompatibility, low immunogenicity, non-toxicity, and biodegradable 
properties, they can be used for various clinical applications. The significant 
advancements in materials research, drug development, nanotechnology, and 
biotechnology have laid the foundation for changing the biopolymeric structural 
and functional properties. The properties of biopolymer and synthetic polymers 
were modified by blending them with nanoparticles, so that these materials can 
be used as a wound dressing application. Recent wound care issues, such as 
tissue repairs, scarless healing, and lost tissue integrity, can be treated with 
blended polymers. Currently, researchers are focusing on metal/metal oxide 
nanomaterials such as zinc oxide (ZnO), cerium oxide (CeO2), silver (Ag), 
titanium oxide (TiO2), iron oxide (Fe2O3), and other materials (graphene and 
carbon nanotubes (CNT)). These materials have good antimicrobial properties, as 
well as action as antibacterial agents. Due to the highly antimicrobial 
properties of the metal/metal oxide materials, they can be used for wound 
dressing applications.

DOI: 10.3390/polym13121962
PMCID: PMC8232021
PMID: 34199209

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.