[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: plant alkaloid biosynthesis pathway elucidation | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: plant alkaloid biosynthesis pathway elucidation]

94. Int Immunopharmacol. 2026 Jan 1;168(Pt 1):115809. doi: 
10.1016/j.intimp.2025.115809. Epub 2025 Nov 8.

Higenamine alleviates abdominal aortic aneurysm by regulating oxidative stress 
and inflammation against VSMC apoptosis.

Li JY(1), Li J(2), Guo RK(3), Qi Z(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiovascular Surgery, the Second Xiangya Hospital, Central 
South University, Changsha, China.
(2)Department of Vascular Surgery, Peking University People's Hospital, Beijing, 
China.
(3)Department of Vascular Surgery, Peking University People's Hospital, Beijing, 
China. Electronic address: heinzkarlguo@outlook.com.
(4)Department of Vascular Surgery, Peking University People's Hospital, Beijing, 
China. Electronic address: qizhen0427@163.com.

BACKGROUND: Abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) is a progressive vascular disease 
marked by apoptosis and phenotypic transition of vascular smooth muscle cells 
(VSMCs), degradation of the extracellular matrix (ECM), and chronic 
inflammation. Currently, no pharmacological treatments are available. This work 
investigated the therapeutic potential and molecular mechanisms of the natural 
alkaloid higenamine (HG) in AAA.
METHODS: H₂O₂- and LPS-induced VSMCs models were used to assess HG's effects on 
apoptosis, phenotype, and inflammation. An elastase-induced AAA mouse model 
evaluated its efficacy in vivo. Network pharmacology, molecular docking, 
dynamics simulations and cellular thermal shift assays (CETSA) were conducted to 
elucidate targets and pathways. Mechanistic studies employed Western blot, 
RT-qPCR, and immunohistochemistry to evaluate the AKT/mTOR and NF-κB/PTGS2 
signaling axes.
RESULTS: HG improved VSMCs viability under oxidative stress, reduced ROS and 
apoptosis, and preserved contractile markers (CNN1, SM22α). In vivo, HG reduced 
aortic dilation, elastin degradation, and the expression of MMP2 and cleaved 
caspase-3. Network analysis identified 25 HG-AAA overlapping targets enriched in 
PI3K-AKT/mTOR pathways, highlighting AKT1 and PTGS2. Molecular docking and CETSA 
confirmed that HG binds strongly to these proteins. HG enhanced AKT/mTOR 
phosphorylation in VSMCs in a PI3K-dependent manner. In the LPS model, HG 
suppressed TNF-α, IL-1β, IL-6, p-NF-κB, and PTGS2 expression, and reduced NF-κB 
nuclear translocation. IHC and Western blot confirmed that HG restored AKT/mTOR 
activation and reduced PTGS2 in AAA tissues in a dose-dependent manner.
CONCLUSIONS: HG attenuates AAA progression by activating the AKT/mTOR pathway 
and inhibiting the NF-κB/PTGS2 axis, offering vascular protection through 
anti-apoptotic and anti-inflammatory mechanisms. These findings support HG as a 
promising multi-target natural compound for AAA therapy.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.intimp.2025.115809
PMID: 41207100 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.