[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: natural product antibiotic drug discovery | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: natural product antibiotic drug discovery]

6. Eur J Med Chem. 2022 Feb 5;229:114068. doi: 10.1016/j.ejmech.2021.114068. Epub
 2021 Dec 24.

Quercetin derivatives: Drug design, development, and biological activities, a 
review.

Alizadeh SR(1), Ebrahimzadeh MA(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicinal Chemistry, School of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical 
Sciences Research Center, Mazandaran University of Medical Sciences, Sari, Iran.
(2)Department of Medicinal Chemistry, School of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical 
Sciences Research Center, Mazandaran University of Medical Sciences, Sari, Iran. 
Electronic address: zadeh20@yahoo.com.

More studies are needed to develop new drugs for problems associated with drug 
resistance and unfavorable side effects. The natural flavonoid of quercetin 
revealed a wide range of biological activities by the modulation of various 
targets and signaling pathways. However, quercetin's low solubility and poor 
bioavailability have restricted its applicability; as a result, researchers have 
attempted to design and synthesize numerous novel quercetin derivatives using 
various methodologies in order to modify quercetin's constraints; the 
physico-chemical properties of quercetin's molecular scaffold make it appealing 
for drug development; low molecular mass and chemical groups are two of these 
characteristics. Therefore, the biological activities of quercetin derivatives, 
as well as the relationship between activity and chemical structure and their 
mechanism of action, were investigated. These quercetin-based molecules could be 
valuable in the creation and discovery of medications for a number of diseases.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejmech.2021.114068
PMID: 34971873 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.