[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: adaptogen ashwagandha stress cortisol clinical | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: adaptogen ashwagandha stress cortisol clinical]

2. Cureus. 2019 Dec 25;11(12):e6466. doi: 10.7759/cureus.6466.

Adaptogenic and Anxiolytic Effects of Ashwagandha Root Extract in Healthy 
Adults: A Double-blind, Randomized, Placebo-controlled Clinical Study.

Salve J(1), Pate S(2), Debnath K(3), Langade D(4).

Author information:
(1)Internal Medicine, Risk Care Hospital/Prakruti Care Hospital/Jupiter 
Hospital, Thane, IND.
(2)Clinical Research, Clinsearch Healthcare Solutions, Thane, IND.
(3)Family Medicine, Prakruti Hospital, Mumbai, IND.
(4)Pharmacology, D.Y. Patil University School of Medicine, Navi Mumbai, IND.

Background Stress, anxiety and impeded sleep are a frequent feature of life in 
modern societies. Across socio-economic strata, stress, anxiety and ineffective 
sleep detract from healthful living and serve as precursors of various ailments. 
The use of herbs to offset these antecedents and outcomes has greatly increased 
in recent years. Ashwagandha, an adaptogenic Ayurvedic herb, has been often used 
to combat and reduce stress and thereby enhance general wellbeing. While there 
have been other studies documenting the use of Ashwagandha for stress 
resistance, this is the first study to use a high-concentration root extract 
while also varying the dosage substantially. Therefore, this is the first study 
to offer insight into dose-response of a high concentration root extract. 
Material and methods In this eight-week, prospective, randomized, double-blind, 
placebo-controlled study, the stress-relieving effect of Ashwagandha root 
extract was investigated in stressed healthy adults. Sixty male and female 
participants with a baseline perceived stress scale (PSS) score >20 were 
randomized to receive capsules of Ashwagandha extract 125 mg, Ashwagandha 
extract 300 mg or identical placebo twice daily for eight weeks in a 1:1:1 
ratio. Stress was assessed using PSS at baseline, four weeks and eight weeks. 
Anxiety was assessed using the Hamilton-Anxiety (HAM-A) scale and serum cortisol 
was measured at baseline and at eight weeks. Sleep quality was assessed using a 
seven-point sleep scale. A repeat measures ANOVA (general linear model) was used 
for assessment of treatment effect at different time periods. Post-hoc Dunnett's 
test was used for comparison of two treatments with placebo. Results Two 
participants (one each in 250 mg/day Ashwagandha and placebo) were lost to 
follow-up and 58 participants completed the study. A significant reduction in 
PSS scores was observed with Ashwagandha 250 mg/day (P < 0.05) and 600 mg/day (P 
< 0.001). Serum cortisol levels reduced with both Ashwagandha 250 mg/day (P < 
0.05) and Ashwagandha 600 mg/day (P < 0.0001). Compared to the placebo group 
participants, the participants receiving Ashwagandha had significant improvement 
in sleep quality. Conclusion Ashwagandha root aqueous extract was beneficial in 
reducing stress and anxiety.

Copyright © 2019, Salve et al.

DOI: 10.7759/cureus.6466
PMCID: PMC6979308
PMID: 32021735

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.