[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: ethnobotany traditional medicine biological activi | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: ethnobotany traditional medicine biological activity]

84. J Ethnopharmacol. 2019 Jan 30;229:157-166. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2018.10.005.
Epub  2018 Oct 15.

An ethnobotanical survey and antifungal activity of Piper guineense used for the 
treatment of fungal infections in West-African traditional medicine.

Mgbeahuruike EE(1), Holm Y(2), Vuorela H(3), Amandikwa C(4), Fyhrquist P(5).

Author information:
(1)Division of Pharmaceutical Biosciences, Faculty of Pharmacy, University of 
Helsinki, P.O. Box 56, FI-00014, Finland. Electronic address: 
eunice.mgbeahuruike@helsinki.fi.
(2)Division of Pharmaceutical Biosciences, Faculty of Pharmacy, University of 
Helsinki, P.O. Box 56, FI-00014, Finland. Electronic address: 
Yvonne.holm@helsinki.fi.
(3)Division of Pharmaceutical Biosciences, Faculty of Pharmacy, University of 
Helsinki, P.O. Box 56, FI-00014, Finland. Electronic address: 
Heikki.vuorela@helsinki.fi.
(4)Department of Food Science and Technology, School of Engineering and 
Engineering Technology, Federal University of Technology Owerri, P.M. B 1526 
Owerri, Imo state, Nigeria. Electronic address: chinyere.amandikwa@futo.edu.ng.
(5)Division of Pharmaceutical Biosciences, Faculty of Pharmacy, University of 
Helsinki, P.O. Box 56, FI-00014, Finland. Electronic address: 
Pia.fyhrquist@helsinki.fi.

ETHNOBOTANICAL RELEVANCE: Piper guineense occurs commonly in West Africa where 
it is used for fungal infections instead of the costly and not always accessible 
conventional antifungals. Fungal, yeast-based diseases are common in West-Africa 
especially among those living with HIV/AIDS, and thus this study was performed 
in Imo state, South-Eastern Nigeria, where P. guineense is predominantly used 
for the treatment of fungal diseases, such as skin rashes, oral thrush and 
vaginosis.
AIM OF STUDY: The scarce number of previous studies on the documentation of the 
traditional uses of P. guineense extracts for the treatment of fungal infections 
in Nigeria prompted this survey. The investigation focused on how traditional 
healers recognize and diagnose fungal infections, how P. guineense is collected, 
on the various parts used for the treatments, methods of preparations, 
administrations and treatments. In addition, an in vitro antifungal screening of 
P. guineense fruit and leaf extracts of various polarities, and piperine and 
piperlongumine, representing the main constituents in these extracts, were 
performed.
METHODS: A house to house ethnobotanical survey was conducted using 
questionnaires. Twenty traditional medical practitioners (TMP) and herb sellers 
from ten villages were interviewed. Four human pathogenic strains of yeast and 
Cryptococcus neoformans, a yeast-like basidiomycete causing meningitis in 
immunocompromised individuals, were used for the antifungal screening.
RESULTS: The traditional medical practitioners (TMP) and herb sellers explained 
that the leaves and fruits are the most commonly used plant parts for the 
treatments. The oral intake of the extracts in locally produced bamboo alcohol 
(Kai-kai) is the most common method of administration. In accordance with these 
recorded traditional uses, we found that extracts of P. guineense were growth 
inhibitory against the fungal strains with MIC values ranging from 39 to 
2500 µg/mL. The lowest MIC value of 39 µg/mL was recorded for a methanol fruit 
extract against Candida albicans, C. glabrata and C. tropicalis. In addition, 
ethanol and hexane fruit extracts were effective against the growth of C. 
albicans and C. glabrata, respectively, with a MIC of 78 µg/mL. Piperlongumine 
and piperine were active against C. albicans with MIC values of 39 and 78 µg/mL 
respectively.
CONCLUSION: P. guineense fruit and leaf extracts, as well as their piperamide 
alkaloid constituents piperine and piperlongumine, have interesting antifungal 
properties and could have potential as new antifungal scaffolds. Our results 
warrant further in-depth investigations to isolate and characterize piperamide 
alkaloids and other compounds responsible for the antifungal activity in the 
extracts.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2018.10.005
PMID: 30336302 [Indexed for MEDLINE]