[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: cannabis cannabidiol therapeutic epilepsy pain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: cannabis cannabidiol therapeutic epilepsy pain]

66. J Forensic Leg Med. 2025 Oct;115:102947. doi: 10.1016/j.jflm.2025.102947.
Epub  2025 Aug 9.

Medical cannabis: Regulatory review in United States, European Union and United 
Kingdom.

Arjun M(1), Verma V(1), Bhoopathi S(1), Mishra A(1), Venkatesh MP(2).

Author information:
(1)Centre of Excellence in Regulatory Sciences, Department of Pharmaceutics, JSS 
College of Pharmacy, JSS Academy of Higher Education and Research, SS Nagar, 
Mysuru, Karnataka, 570015, India.
(2)Centre of Excellence in Regulatory Sciences, Department of Pharmaceutics, JSS 
College of Pharmacy, JSS Academy of Higher Education and Research, SS Nagar, 
Mysuru, Karnataka, 570015, India; Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences, UCSI 
University, Malaysia. Electronic address: venkateshmpv@jssuni.edu.in.

Cannabis contains compounds like delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol and cannabidiol, 
which are commonly used for epilepsy, anxiety and chronic pain. Medical 
marijuana involves the utilization of cannabis for therapeutic objectives, such 
as the management of various ailments. Given the vast array of potential 
pharmacological and medicinal applications of cannabis and its by-products, 
there has been a surge of interest in developing cannabis-related products. 
Because it presents a potential health hazard and is still under clinical 
investigation, a set of guidelines is needed for its safe use. Based on market 
research, medicinal cannabis development is currently established worldwide, 
including in the United States (US), the European Union (EU) and the United 
Kingdom (UK). The European Medicines Agency (EMA) aims to establish guidelines 
after accounting for the regulations of EU member states. There are notable 
differences in the regulations for Cannabis in US, EU regions and UK. Each 
member state in the EU has its own distinct set of regulations. The UK has 
implemented a clear legal framework through the Misuse of Drugs (Amendments) 
(Cannabis and License Fees) Regulations 2018, permitting the controlled use of 
cannabis for medical purposes. This study summarizes the recently established 
regulations in each region, allowing for a clearer comprehension of the 
divergent regulatory practices. The study also evaluates the present laws 
governing the utilization of cannabis cultivation and medicines in the EU, with 
particular emphasis on the differences in legislation between the US, EU and UK 
regarding medicinal products containing cannabinoids, which may result in 
varying degrees of access to these products, addressing toxicologists and 
doctors. This comprehensive review may assist policymakers in harmonizing 
cannabis regulations globally.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Ltd and Faculty of Forensic and Legal Medicine. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jflm.2025.102947
PMID: 40818335 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest I am writing 
to declare that there are no conflicts of interest associated with the 
submission of the manuscript titled " Medical Cannabis: Regulatory Review in the 
United States, European Union and United Kingdom" authored by M Arjun, Vishakha 
Verma, Bhoopathi S, Ashutosh Mishra, and M P Venkatesh. Dr. M.P. Venkatesh is 
the corresponding author of this manuscript.