[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: The Herbalist — Meyer | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# The Herbalist — Meyer — Overview

Mr. Bardell was when he first won my young and untried affections: to a single gentleman, then, shall my lodgings be let.' Actuated by this beautiful and touching impulse (among the best impulses of our imperfect nature, gentlemen) the lonely and desolate widow dried her tears, furnished her first floor, caught the innocent boy to her maternal bosom, and put the bill up in her parlour-window. Did it
   remain there long? No. The serpent was on the watch, the train was
   laid, the mine was preparing, the sapper and miner was at work. Before
   the bill had been in the parlour-window three days--three days,
   gentlemen--a Being, erect upon two legs, and bearing all the outward
   semblance of a man, and not of a monster, knocked at the door of Mrs. Bardell's house. He inquired within--he took the lodgings; and on the
   very next day he entered into possession of them. The man was
   Pickwick--Pickwick, the defendant."

   Serjeant Buzfuz, who had proceeded with such volubility that his face
   was perfectly crimson, here paused for breath. The silence awoke Mr. Justice Stareleigh, who immediately wrote down something with a pen
   without any ink in it, and looked unusually profound, to impress the
   jury with the belief that he always thought most deeply with his eyes
   shut. Serjeant Buzfuz proceeded. "Of this man Pickwick I will say little; the subject presents but few
   attractions; and I, gentlemen, am not the man, nor are you, gentlemen,
   the men, to delight in the contemplation of revolting heartlessness
   and of systematic villainy."

   Here Mr. Pickwick, who had been writhing in silence for some time,
   gave a violent start, as if some vague idea of assaulting Serjeant
   Buzfuz, in the august presence of justice and law, suggested itself to
   his mind. An admonitory gesture from Perker restrained him, and he
   listened to the learned gentleman's continuation with a look of
   indignation, which contrasted forcibly with the admiring faces of Mrs. Cluppins and Mrs. Sanders. "I say systematic villainy, gentlemen," said Serjeant Buzfuz, looking
   through Mr. Pickwick, and talking _at_ him; "and when I say systematic
   villainy, let me tell the defendant Pickwick, if he be in Court--as I
   am informed he is--that it would have been more decent in him, more
   becoming, in better judgment, and in better taste, if he had stopped
   away. Let me tell him, gentlemen, that any gestures of dissent or
   disapprobation in which he may indulge in this Court will not go down
   with you; that you will know how to value and how to appreciate them;
   and let me tell him further, as my lord will tell you, gentlemen, that
   a counsel, in the discharge of his duty to his client, is neither to
   be intimidated, nor bullied, nor put down; and that any attempt to do
   either the one or the other, or the first, or the last, will recoil on
   the head of the attempter, be he plaintiff or be he defendant, be his
   name Pickwick, or Noakes, or Stoakes, or Stiles, or Brown, or
   Thompson."

   This little divergence from the subject in hand had, of course, the
   intended effect of turning all eyes to Mr. Pickwick. Serjeant Buzfuz,
   having partially recovered from the state of moral elevation into
   which he had lashed himself, resumed,--

   "I shall show you, gentlemen, that for two years Pickwick continued to
   reside constantly, and without interruption or intermission, at Mrs. Bardell's house. I shall show you that Mrs. Bardell, during the whole
   of that time, waited on him, attended to his comforts, cooked his
   meals, looked out his linen for the washerwoman when it went abroad,
   darned, aired, and prepared it for wear, and, in short, enjoyed his
   fullest trust and confidence. I shall show you that, on many
   occasions, he gave halfpence, and on some occasions even sixpences, to
   her little boy; and I shall prove to you, by a witness whose testimony
   it will be impossible for my learned friend to weaken or controvert,
   that on one occasion he patted the boy on the head, and, after
   inquiring whether he had won any _alley tors_ or _commoneys_ lately
   (both of which I understand to be a particular species of marbles much
   prized by the youth of this town), made use of this remarkable
   expression: 'How should you like to have another father?'  I shall
   prove to you, gentlemen, that about a year ago Pickwick suddenly began
   to absent himself from home during long intervals, as with the
   intention of gradually breaking off from my client; but I shall show
   you also that his resolution was not at that time sufficiently strong,
   or that his better feelings conquered, if better feelings he has, or
   that the charms and accomplishments of my client prevailed against his
   unmanly intentions; by proving to you that on one occasion, when he
   returned from the country, he distinctly and in terms offered her
   marriage; previously, however, taking special care that there should
   be no witnesses to their solemn contract; and I am in a situation to
   prove to you, on the testimony of three of his own friends--most
   unwilling witnesses, gentlemen--most unwilling witnesses--that on that
   morning he was discovered by them holding the plaintiff in his arms,
   and soothing her agitation by his caresses and endearment."

   A visible impression was produced upon the auditors by this part of
   the learned Serjeant's address.