[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: cannabis cannabidiol therapeutic epilepsy pain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: cannabis cannabidiol therapeutic epilepsy pain]

62. Molecules. 2022 Aug 4;27(15):4961. doi: 10.3390/molecules27154961.

Neuroprotection of Cannabidiol, Its Synthetic Derivatives and Combination 
Preparations against Microglia-Mediated Neuroinflammation in Neurological 
Disorders.

Yousaf M(1), Chang D(2), Liu Y(2), Liu T(2), Zhou X(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Bioinformatics and Biotechnology, Government College University 
Faisalabad, Faisalabad 38000, Pakistan.
(2)NICM Health Research Institute, Western Sydney University, Westmead, NSW 
2145, Australia.

The lack of effective treatment for neurological disorders has encouraged the 
search for novel therapeutic strategies. Remarkably, neuroinflammation provoked 
by the activated microglia is emerging as an important therapeutic target for 
neurological dysfunction in the central nervous system. In the pathological 
context, the hyperactivation of microglia leads to neuroinflammation through the 
release of neurotoxic molecules, such as reactive oxygen species, proteinases, 
proinflammatory cytokines and chemokines. Cannabidiol (CBD) is a major 
pharmacologically active phytocannabinoids derived from Cannabis sativa L. CBD 
has promising therapeutic effects based on mounting clinical and preclinical 
studies of neurological disorders, such as epilepsy, multiple sclerosis, 
ischemic brain injuries, neuropathic pain, schizophrenia and Alzheimer's 
disease. A number of preclinical studies suggested that CBD exhibited potent 
inhibitory effects of neurotoxic molecules and inflammatory modulators, 
highlighting its remarkable therapeutic potential for the treatment of numerous 
neurological disorders. However, the molecular mechanisms of action underpinning 
CBD's effects on neuroinflammation appear to be complex and are poorly 
understood. This review summarises the anti-neuroinflammatory activities of CBD 
against various neurological disorders with a particular focus on their main 
molecular mechanisms of action, which were related to the downregulation of 
NADPH oxidase-mediated ROS, TLR4-NFκB and IFN-β-JAK-STAT pathways. We also 
illustrate the pharmacological action of CBD's derivatives focusing on their 
anti-neuroinflammatory and neuroprotective effects for neurological disorders. 
We included the studies that demonstrated synergistic enhanced 
anti-neuroinflammatory activity using CBD and other biomolecules. The studies 
that are summarised in the review shed light on the development of CBD, 
including its derivatives and combination preparations as novel therapeutic 
options for the prevention and/or treatment of neurological disorders where 
neuroinflammation plays an important role in the pathological components.

DOI: 10.3390/molecules27154961
PMCID: PMC9370304
PMID: 35956911 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: All authors declare that they have no conflict 
of interest and no competing financial interests. As a medical research 
institute, NICM Health Research Institute receives research grants and donations 
from foundations, universities, government agencies, individuals, and industry. 
Sponsors and donors also provide united funding for work to advance the vision 
and mission of the Institute.