[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: Herbals: Their Origin and Evolution — Arber | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Herbals: Their Origin and Evolution — Arber — Overview

were are as follows: ARMAMENT OF THE ALABAMA. One 7-inch Blakely rifle. One 8-inch smooth-bore (68-pounder). Six 32-pounders. ARMAMENT OF THE KEARSARGE. Two 11-inch smooth-bore guns. One 30-pounder rifle. Four 32-pounders. It will therefore be seen that the Alabama had the advantage of the Kearsarge--at all events in the number of her guns; whilst the weight of the latter's broadside was only some 20 per cent. greater than her own. This disparity, however, was more than made up by the greater rapidity of
the Alabama's firing, and, above all, by the superiority of her
artillerymen. The _Times_ informs us that Capt. Semmes asserts, "he owes
his best men to the training they received on board the 'Excellent;'" and
trained gunners must naturally be superior to the volunteer gunners on
board the Kearsarge. Each vessel fought all her guns, with the exception
in either case of one 32-pounder, on the starboard side; but the struggle
was really decided by the two 11-inch Dahlgren smooth-bores of the
Kearsarge against the 7-inch Blakely rifle and the heavy 68-pounder pivot
of the Alabama. The Kearsarge certainly carried a small 30-pounder rifled
Dahlgren in pivot on her forecastle, and this gun was fired several times
before the rest were brought into play; but the gun in question was never
regarded as aught than a failure, and the Ordnance Department of the
United States' Navy has given up its manufacture. THE CHAIN-PLATING OF THE KEARSARGE. Great stress has been laid upon the chain-plating of the Kearsarge, and it
is assumed by interested parties that, but for this armour, the contest
would have resulted differently. A pamphlet lately published in this city,
entitled "The Career of the Alabama,"[2] makes the following statements:

"The Federal Government had fitted out the Kearsarge, a new vessel of
great speed, _iron-coated_," &c. (p. 23). "She," the Kearsarge, "appeared to be _temporarily_ plated with iron
chains." (p. 38.) (In the previous quotation, it would appear she had so
been plated by the Federal Government: both statements are absolutely
incorrect, as will shortly be seen.)

"It was frequently observed that shot and shell struck against the
Kearsarge's side, and harmlessly rebounded, bursting outside, and doing no
damage to the Federal crew."

"Another advantage accruing from this was that it sank her very low in the
water, so low in fact, that the heads of the men who were in the boats
were on the level of the Kearsarge's deck." (p. 39.)

"As before observed, the sides of the Kearsarge _were trailed all over
with chain cables_." (p. 41). The author of the pamphlet in question has judiciously refrained from
giving his name. A greater number of more unblushing misrepresentations
never were contained in an equal space. In his official report to the Confederate Envoy, Mr. Mason, Captain Semmes
makes the following statements:

"At the end of the engagement, it was discovered by those of our officers
who went alongside the enemy's ship with the wounded, that her midship
section on both sides was thoroughly iron-coated; _this having been done
with chain constructed for the purpose_, (_!_) placed perpendicularly from
the rail to the water's edge, the whole covered over by a thin outer
planking, which gave no indication of the armour beneath. This planking
had been ripped off in every direction (!) by our shot and shell, the
chain broken and indented in many places, and forced partly into the
ship's side. She was most effectually guarded, however, in this section
from penetration."

"The enemy was heavier than myself, both in ship, battery, and crew, (!)
_but I did not know until the action was over that she was also
iron-clad_."

"Those of our officers who went alongside the enemy's ship with our
wounded." As soon as Captain Semmes reached the Deerhound, the yacht
steamed off at full speed towards Southampton, and Semmes wrote his report
of the fight either in England, or on board the English vessel. Probably
the former, for he dates his communication to Mr. Mason--"Southampton,
June 21, 1864." How did he obtain intelligence from those of his officers
"who went alongside the enemy's ship," and who would naturally be detained
as prisoners of war? It was impossible for anybody to reach Southampton in
the time specified; nevertheless he did obtain such information. One of
his officers--George T. Fullam, an Englishman unfortunately--came to the
Kearsarge in a boat at the close of the action, representing the Alabama
to be sinking, and that if the Kearsarge did not hasten to get out boats
to save life, the crew must go down with her. Not a moment was to be lost,
and he offered to go back to his own vessel to bring off prisoners,
pledging his honour to return when the object was accomplished. After
picking up several men struggling in the water, he steered directly for
the Deerhound, and on reaching her actually cast his boat adrift. It was
subsequently picked up by the Kearsarge.