[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: ethnobotany traditional medicine biological activi | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: ethnobotany traditional medicine biological activity]

6. J Ethnopharmacol. 2016 Aug 22;190:116-41. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2016.05.023. Epub
 2016 May 19.

Angelica sinensis in China-A review of botanical profile, ethnopharmacology, 
phytochemistry and chemical analysis.

Wei WL(1), Zeng R(2), Gu CM(3), Qu Y(4), Huang LF(5).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Medicinal Plant Development, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences 
& Peking Union Medical College, Beijing 100193, China. Electronic address: 
13521032532@163.com.
(2)College of Pharmacy, Southwest University for Nationalities, Chengdu 610041, 
China.
(3)Institute of Medicinal Plant Development, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences 
& Peking Union Medical College, Beijing 100193, China. Electronic address: 
mackzeng@gmail.com.
(4)Pharmacy College, Chengdu University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Chengdu 
611137, China. Electronic address: quyan028@126.com.
(5)Institute of Medicinal Plant Development, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences 
& Peking Union Medical College, Beijing 100193, China. Electronic address: 
lfhuang@implad.ac.cn.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Angelica sinensis (Oliv.) Diels, known as Dang 
Gui (in Chinese), is a traditional medicinal and edible plant that has long been 
used for tonifying, replenishing, and invigorating blood as well as relieving 
pain, lubricating the intestines, and treating female irregular menstruation and 
amenorrhea. A. sinensis has also been used as a health product and become 
increasingly popular in China, Japan, and Korea.
AIM OF THE REVIEW: This paper aims to provide a systemic review of traditional 
uses of A. sinensis and its recent advances in the fields of phytochemistry, 
analytical methods and toxicology. In addition, possible trends, therapeutic 
potentials, and perspectives for future research of this plant are also briefly 
discussed.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: An extensive review of the literature was conducted, and 
electronic databases including China National Knowledge Infrastructure, PubMed, 
Google Scholar, Science Direct, and Reaxys were used to assemble the data. 
Ethnopharmacological literature and digitalised sources of academic libraries 
were also systematically searched. In addition, information was obtained from 
local books and The Plant List (TPL, www.theplantlist.org).
RESULT: This study reviews the progress in chemical analysis of A. sinensis and 
its preparations. Previously and newly established methods, including 
spectroscopy, thin-layer chromatography (TLC), gas chromatography (GC), 
high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC), ultra-performance liquid 
chromatography(UPLC), and nuclear magnetic resonance analysis (NMR), are 
summarized. Moreover, identified bioactive components such as polysaccharides, 
ligustilide and ferulic acid were reviewed, along with analytical methods for 
quantitative and qualitative determination of target analytes, and 
fingerprinting authentication, quality evaluation of A. sinensis, and toxicology 
and pharmacodynamic studies. Scientific reports on crude extracts and pure 
compounds and formulations revealed a wide range of pharmacological activities, 
including anti-inflammatory activity, antifibrotic action, antispasmodic 
activity, antioxidant activities, and neuroprotective action, as well as cardio- 
and cerebrovascular effects.
CONCLUSIONS: Within the published scientific literature are numerous reports 
regarding analytical methods that use various chromatographic and 
spectrophotometric technologies to monitor various types of components with 
different physicochemical properties simultaneously. This review discusses the 
reasonable selection of marker compounds based on high concentrations, 
analytical methods, and commercial availabilities with the goal of developing 
quick, accurate, and applicable analytical approaches for quality evaluation and 
establishing harmonised criteria for the analysis of A. sinensis and its 
finished products. Compounds isolated from A. sinensis are abundant sources of 
chemical diversity, from which we can discover active molecules. Thus, more 
studies on the pharmacological mechanisms of the predominant active compounds of 
A. sinensis are needed. In addition, given that A. sinensis is one of the most 
popular traditional herbal medicines, its main therapeutic aspects, toxicity, 
and adverse effects warrant further investigation in the future.

Copyright © 2016. Published by Elsevier Ireland Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2016.05.023
PMID: 27211015 [Indexed for MEDLINE]