[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: Refined calculation of energy modes of a frequency-regulated | Type: OpenAlex-OA | Level: Graduate]

[OpenAlex | Applied Magnetism | Year: 2024 | Citations: 2]

Title: Refined calculation of energy modes of a frequency-regulated induction motor

Abstract:
Purpose. To obtain analytical dependencies for the precise calculation of the stator current of a frequency-regulated three-phase short-circuited induction motor and to estimate the components of its main electrical power losses, which are spent on the transportation magnetic power losses (to the magnetization circuit) and additional power losses (through the motor air gap), as well as with using the obtained refined dependencies to research the electromagnetic processes and energy modes of the frequency-regulated induction motor when its speed and load change. Methodology. The method of generalized vectors is used for the refined calculation of the electromagnetic processes and energy modes of the frequency-regulated induction motor. Results. Based on the catalog data and parameters of the induction motor’s equivalent replacement circuit, also the specified values of its useful rotational torque and speed, refined analytical dependencies were obtained for the calculation of the main electromagnetic power losses of the frequency-regulated induction motor, which take into account the influence of all types of power losses, which present in it, as well as – power losses spent on transporting magnetic losses (to the magnetization circuit) and additional losses (through the air gap of the motor). With the help of the obtained dependencies, the energy modes (including main power consumption and electromagnetic power losses, efficiency factor, power factor) of the frequency-regulated induction motor in the driving and generator modes of its operation in relation to the first (at speeds not higher than the nominal) and the second (at speeds above the nominal) speed control zones for the operating ranges of the motor useful rotational torque and speed changes were calculated. Originality. A refined analytical calculation dependence has been obtained for determining the active projection of the generalized stator current vector of a frequency-regulated induction motor, which takes into account the presence of additional power losses and the component of electrical losses caused by the transportation of additional power losses through the air gap of the motor; an analytical dependence is also proposed for determining the increment of the mentioned active projection, which is due to the transportation of magnetic power losses to the motor magnetization circuit. Practical value. Analytical calculation dependencies are proposed for the quantitative assessment of errors (as a percentage of mentioned values) in steady-state modes for determining the main electromagnetic power losses of the frequency-regulated induction motor, caused by the absence (in comparison with relevant studies from known publications) of taking into account additional and magnetic power losses, as well as – the influence of electrical component losses caused by the transportation of the mentioned power losses through the air gap or to the magnetization circuit of the motor, respectively. References 16, tables 5, figures 2.