[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: photodynamic therapy cancer clinical trial | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: photodynamic therapy cancer clinical trial]

13. Semin Oncol. 1994 Dec;21(6 Suppl 15):15-9.

Photodynamic therapy of lung cancer.

Lam S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cancer Imaging, British Columbia Cancer Research Center, 
Vancouver, Canada.

Photodynamic therapy (PDT) has been used investigationally for the treatment of 
lung cancer since 1980. Following systemic administration of a photosensitizing 
agent such as porfimer sodium (Photofrin; manufactured by Lederle Parenterals, 
Carolina, Puerto Rico, under license from Quadra Logic Technologies, Inc, 
Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada), specialized optical delivery systems are 
engaged to deliver light of a specific wavelength (630 nm for porfimer sodium) 
to neoplastic tissue. A promising use of PDT appears to be treatment of early 
stage lung carcinoma. Phase I-II clinical trials by Hayata's group in Japan 
showed that for superficial early lung cancer less than 1 cm in surface 
diameter, complete eradication can be achieved in approximately 90% of cases. 
Additional phase II-III clinical trials have demonstrated an average of 90% 
complete response rates for superficial tumors less than 1 cm in diameter. 
Preoperative PDT may be useful for larger neoplasms to reduce tumor burden and 
potentially lessen the degree of surgery required. At the British Columbia 
Cancer Agency, 22 patients with 30 radiologically occult cancers were treated 
with PDT. In contrast to Hayata's studies, most of these patients had rather 
extensive tumor burden. Thirty percent of the tumors involved two or more 
bronchi, and more than half of them were greater than 1 cm in surface diameter. 
Twenty-three percent of the cases were bronchial stump recurrences. In the group 
of patients with bronchial stump recurrence, although a complete response was 
obtained with PDT initially, local recurrences occurred in 75% of cases. These 
results suggest that recurrent tumor in the bronchial stump should not be 
treated with PDT because of difficulty in delivering light endobronchially to 
distal tissues. Photodynamic therapy may have a role in the palliation of 
advanced, inoperable, obstructive bronchial tumors. Phytodynamic therapy in 
combination with external radiotherapy may produce better local control than 
external radiotherapy alone in patients with obstructive bronchial cancers. 
Photodynamic therapy and conventional Nd:YAG laser therapy appear to be equally 
effective in relieving intraluminal obstruction by tumor. An advantage of PDT 
for this purpose is longer time to treatment failure; a disadvantage is 
photosensitization that usually occurs for up to 4 weeks after treatment. In 
summary, PDT is a promising curative treatment for patients with small early 
bronchial cancers.

PMID: 7992102 [Indexed for MEDLINE]