[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: nanoparticle drug delivery tumor targeting cancer | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: nanoparticle drug delivery tumor targeting cancer]

72. Molecules. 2018 Oct 13;23(10):2628. doi: 10.3390/molecules23102628.

Utilisation of Targeted Nanoparticle Photosensitiser Drug Delivery Systems for 
the Enhancement of Photodynamic Therapy.

Kruger CA(1), Abrahamse H(2).

Author information:
(1)Laser Research Centre, Faculty of Health Sciences, University of 
Johannesburg, Johannesburg, Doornfontein 2001, South Africa. cherier@uj.ac.za.
(2)Laser Research Centre, Faculty of Health Sciences, University of 
Johannesburg, Johannesburg, Doornfontein 2001, South Africa. 
habrahamse@uj.ac.za.

The cancer incidence world-wide has caused an increase in the demand for 
effective forms of treatment. One unconventional form of treatment for cancer is 
photodynamic therapy (PDT). PDT has 3 fundamental factors, namely a 
photosensitiser (PS) drug, light and oxygen. When a PS drug is administered to a 
patient, it can either passively or actively accumulate within a tumour site and 
once exposed to a specific wavelength of light, it is excited to produce 
reactive oxygen species (ROS), resulting in tumour destruction. However, the 
efficacy of ROS generation for tumour damage is highly dependent on the uptake 
of the PS in tumour cells. Thus, PS selective/targeted uptake and delivery in 
tumour cells is a crucial factor in PDT cancer drug absorption studies. 
Generally, within non-targeted drug delivery mechanisms, only minor amounts of 
PS are able to passively accumulate in tumour sites (due to the enhanced 
permeability and retention (EPR) effect) and the remainder distributes into 
healthy tissues, causing unwanted side effects and poor treatment prognosis. 
Thus, to improve the efficacy of PDT cancer treatment, research is currently 
focused on the development of specific receptor-based PS-nanocarrier platform 
drugs, which promote the active uptake and absorption of PS drugs in tumour 
sites only, avoiding unwanted side effects, as well as treatment enhancement. 
Therefore, the aim of this review paper is to focus on current actively targeted 
or passively delivered PS nanoparticle drug delivery systems, that have been 
previously investigated for the PDT treatment of cancer and so to deduce their 
overall efficacy and recent advancements.

DOI: 10.3390/molecules23102628
PMCID: PMC6222717
PMID: 30322132 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest. The 
funders had no role in the design of the study; in the collection, analyses, or 
interpretation of data; in the writing of the manuscript, and in the decision to 
publish the results.