[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: Botánica | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Botánica — Overview

contain any combination of medicinal herbs, religious amulets, and/or other products used for the prevention, treatment, or palliation of folk and somatic illnesses. Ultimately, botánicas serve as a bridge in efforts to develop community healthcare programs that link families with conventional medical practitioners who lack their native familiarity. Community role Botánicas are crucial to the communities they serve because they provide healing, hope, meaning, and support. The support they provide is a continuation of many homeland traditions for people living in conditions of diaspora, immigration, and exile. Botánicas provide a place for people to congregate, socialize, and discuss political and other issues that affect immigrant communities without fear of censure or reprisal. Some botánicas sponsor festivals, parties, or religious ceremonies attended by families from the immediate communities but also from other cities. As sites of healing and communal support, botanicas operate not only as settings for spiritual contemplation but also as information bases. These spots are commonly meeting place for immigrants from Central America, South America and the Caribbean. Botánicas are popular in heavily populated urban and Latino communities like Miami, New York, Los Angeles, and the Greater Boston Area. Botánicas in LA bring Africa, Latin America, and the U.S. together through their services and goods. At the botánica, people can find strength in this affirmation of identity, both in the preservation of creative, sustaining traditions from home countries as well as in building a new space in a new world. Notes and references

Bibliography 
Jones. (2020). Herbs and Saints in the City of Angels: Researching Botánicas, Healing, and Power in Southern California. The Journal of American Folklore, 133(527), 53. doi: 10.5406/jamerfolk.133.527.0053

Murphy, J. M. (2015). Botánicas: sacred spaces of healing and devotion in urban America. Jackson: University Press of Mississippi. Polk, P. A., ed. (2005). Botánica Los Angeles: Latino popular religious art in the city of angels. Seattle, WA: University of Washington Press. Robert T. Trotter II/Trotter II, Robert T., Juan Antonio Chavira/Chavira, Juan Antonio. Curanderismo: Mexican American Folk Healing. University of Georgia Press, Second Edition, October 1997. Rose-Rodriguez, L., (2007) Botanicas in Connecticut: Implications for Allopathic Practitioners. Unpublished master's thesis. University of Connecticut. Latin American culture
Herbalism
Traditional medicine
Supernatural healing
Christian folklore
Retailers by type of merchandise sold