[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: plant alkaloid biosynthesis pathway elucidation | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: plant alkaloid biosynthesis pathway elucidation]

86. ACS Chem Biol. 2023 Jan 20;18(1):123-133. doi: 10.1021/acschembio.2c00756.
Epub  2023 Jan 6.

Switching Prenyl Donor Specificities in Squalene Synthase-Like Aromatic 
Prenyltransferases from Bacterial Carbazole Alkaloid Biosynthesis.

Shen Y(1), Zhang L(1), Yang M(1), Shi T(2), Li Y(2), Li L(1), Yu Y(3), Deng 
H(4), Lin HW(1), Zhou Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Research Center for Marine Drugs, State Key Laboratory of Oncogenes and 
Related Genes, Department of Pharmacy, Ren Ji Hospital, School of Medicine, 
Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai 200127, China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Microbial Metabolism, Joint International Research 
Laboratory of Metabolic and Developmental Sciences, School of Life Sciences and 
Biotechnology, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai 200240, China.
(3)Institute of TCM and Natural Products, Key Laboratory of Combinatorial 
Biosynthesis and Drug Discovery (Ministry of Education), School of 
Pharmaceutical Sciences, Wuhan University, Wuhan 430071, China.
(4)Department of Chemistry, University of Aberdeen, Aberdeen AB24 3UE, U.K.

Lavanduquinocin (LDQ) is a potent neuroprotective carbazole alkaloid from 
Streptomyces species that features a rare cyclic monoterpene/cyclolavandulyl 
moiety attached to the tricyclic carbazole nucleus. We elucidated the 
biosynthetic logic of LDQ by enzymatically reconstituting the total biosynthetic 
pathway and identified the genes required for generating the cyclolavandulyl 
moiety in LDQ based on mutagenetic analysis, including a cyclolavandulyl 
diphosphate synthase gene ldqA and a squalene synthase-like aromatic 
prenyltransferase gene ldqG. LdqG is homologous to carbazole prenyltransferases, 
NzsG and CqsB4, discovered from the biosynthetic pathways of two bacterial 
carbazoles, neocarazostatin and carquinostatin. Based on analysis of the 
sequences and modeled protein structures, further in vitro and in vivo 
site-directed mutagenetic analyses led to identification of two residue sites, 
F53 and C57 in NzsG vs I54 and A58 in LdqG, which play crucial roles in 
governing the prenyl donor specificities toward cyclolavandulyl, dimethylallyl, 
and geranyl diphosphates. By applying this knowledge in strain engineering, 
prenyl donor delivery was rationally switched to produce the desired prenylated 
carbazoles. The study provides an opportunity to rationally manipulate the 
prenylation modification to carbazole alkaloids, which could influence the 
biological activities by increasing the affinity for membranes as well as the 
interactions with cellular targets.

DOI: 10.1021/acschembio.2c00756
PMID: 36608315 [Indexed for MEDLINE]