[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: pharmacognosy medicinal plant active compound isol | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: pharmacognosy medicinal plant active compound isolation]

28. Phytomedicine. 2023 Mar;111:154642. doi: 10.1016/j.phymed.2023.154642. Epub
2023  Jan 4.

Phytotherapy of mood disorders in the light of microbiota-gut-brain axis.

Korczak M(1), Pilecki M(2), Granica S(1), Gorczynska A(1), Pawłowska KA(1), 
Piwowarski JP(3).

Author information:
(1)Microbiota Lab, Department of Pharmacognosy and Molecular Basis of 
Phytotherapy, Medical University of Warsaw, Warsaw, Poland.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, Collegium Medicum, Jagiellonian University, Cracow, 
Poland.
(3)Microbiota Lab, Department of Pharmacognosy and Molecular Basis of 
Phytotherapy, Medical University of Warsaw, Warsaw, Poland. Electronic address: 
jpiwowarski@wum.edu.pl.

BACKGROUND: Clinical research in natural product-based psychopharmacology has 
revealed a variety of promising herbal medicines that may provide benefit in the 
treatment of mild mood disorders, however failed to unambiguously indicate 
pharmacologically active constituents. The emerging role of the 
microbiota-gut-brain axis opens new possibilities in the search for effective 
methods of treatment and prevention of mood disorders.
PURPOSE: Considering the clinically proven effectiveness juxtaposed with 
inconsistencies regarding the indication of active principles for many medicinal 
plants applied in the treatment of anxiety and depression, the aim of the review 
is to look at their therapeutic properties from the perspective of the 
microbiota-gut-brain axis.
METHOD: A literature-based survey was performed using Scopus, Pubmed, and Google 
Scholar databases. The current state of knowledge regarding Hypericum 
perforatum, Valeriana officinalis, Piper methysticum, Passiflora incarnata, 
Humulus lupulus, Melissa officinalis, Lavandula officinalis, and Rhodiola rosea 
in terms of their antimicrobial activity, bioavailability, clinical 
effectiveness in depression/anxiety and gut microbiota - natural products 
interaction was summarized and analyzed.
RESULTS: Recent studies have provided direct and indirect evidence that herbal 
extracts and isolated compounds are potent modulators of gut microbiota 
structure. Additionally, some of the formed postbiotic metabolites exert 
positive effects and ameliorate depression-related behaviors in animal models of 
mood disorders. The review underlines the gap in research on natural products - 
gut microbiota interaction in the context of mood disorders.
CONCLUSION: Modification of microbiota-gut-brain axis by natural products is a 
plausible explanation of their therapeutic properties. Future studies evaluating 
the effectiveness of herbal medicine and isolated compounds in treating mild 
mood disorders should consider the bidirectional interplay between 
phytoconstituents and the gut microbiota community.

Copyright © 2023 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.phymed.2023.154642
PMID: 36641978 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.