[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: laser tissue interaction ablation photothermal | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: laser tissue interaction ablation photothermal]

25. J Mater Chem B. 2019 May 7;7(17):2808-2818. doi: 10.1039/c9tb00246d. Epub
2019  Apr 1.

Tricalcium silicate/graphene oxide bone cement with photothermal properties for 
tumor ablation.

Xu C(1), Ma B, Peng J, Gao L, Xu Y, Huan Z, Chang J.

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of High Performance Ceramics and Superfine 
Microstructure, Shanghai Institute of Ceramics, Chinese Academy of Sciences, 
Shanghai, 200050, People's Republic of China. huanzhiguang@mail.sic.ac.cn 
jchang@mail.sic.ac.cn.

Bone cements have been used in the clinical setting to fill bone defects 
resulting from bone tumors. However, traditional bone cements do not have the 
function to kill tumor cells. This study develops a new type of tricalcium 
silicate (CS) based functional bone cement with excellent photothermal 
performance for the minimally invasive therapy of bone defects as well as bone 
tumors. Graphene oxide (GO) was introduced into the CS cement by 
co-precipitation of CS particles with GO nanosheets to form a CS/GO composite 
material based on charge interactions between the CS and GO. The incorporation 
of GO enhanced the self-setting properties of CS and endowed the cement with 
excellent photothermal performance with the irradiation of near-infrared light. 
Besides this, the temperature of the composite cement could be regulated by 
adjusting the laser power and the GO content, where the rising temperature 
significantly inhibited the growth of subcutaneous tumor tissue in vivo. In 
addition, the hydration process and development of the early compressive 
strength of the composite cement could be modulated based on its photothermal 
performance. Moreover, the CS/GO composite cement retained the bioactivity of CS 
to promote cell proliferation and the alkaline phosphate activity of MC3T3-E1. 
Therefore, the CS/GO composite cement holds great promise as a new type of 
functional bone cement with photothermal performance for bone tumor therapy and 
bone defect repair.

DOI: 10.1039/c9tb00246d
PMID: 32255083 [Indexed for MEDLINE]