[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: Hans Christian Ørsted | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Hans Christian Ørsted — Overview

Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences in 1822, a member of the American Philosophical Society in 1829, and a Foreign Honorary Member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1849. He founded the (Society for the Dissemination of Natural Science, SNU) in 1824. He was also the founder of predecessor organizations which eventually became the Danish Meteorological Institute and the Danish Patent and Trademark Office. In 1829, Ørsted founded  (College of Advanced Technology), which was later renamed the Technical University of Denmark (DTU). In 1824, Ørsted made a significant contribution to chemistry by being the first person to successfully produce aluminium in its metallic state, albeit in a less-than-pure form. In 1808, Humphry Davy had predicted the existence of the metal which he gave the name of alumium. However his attempts to isolate it using electrolysis processes were unsuccessful; the closest he came was an aluminium-iron alloy. Ørsted succeeded in isolating the metallic form by reacting aluminium chloride with potassium amalgam (an alloy of potassium and mercury) and then boiling away the mercury, which left small "chunks" of metal that he described as appearing similar to tin. He presented his results and a sample of the metal at meetings of the Danish Academy of Sciences in early 1825, but otherwise appears to have considered his discovery to be of limited importance. This ambivalence, coupled with the limited audience for the Danish Academy's journal in which the results had been published, meant that the discovery went mostly unnoticed by the wider scientific community at the time. Busy with other work, in 1827 Ørsted gave his friend, the German chemist Friedrich Wöhler, permission to take over the research. Wöhler was able to produce approximately  of aluminium powder soon thereafter, using a process of his own design, before finally, in 1845, isolating a quantity of solid metal sufficient for him to describe some of its physical properties. Ørsted died in Copenhagen in 1851, aged 73, and was buried in the Assistens Cemetery. Legacy

The centimetre-gram-second system (CGS) unit of magnetic induction (oersted) is named for his contributions to the field of electromagnetism. Toponymy
The Ørsted Park in Copenhagen was named after Ørsted and his brother in 1879. The streets  in Frederiksberg and  in Galten are also named after him. The buildings that are home to the Department of Chemistry and the Institute for Mathematical Sciences at the University of Copenhagen's North Campus are named the H.C. Ørsted Institute, after him. A dormitory named  is located in Odense. The first Danish satellite, launched in 1999, was named after Ørsted. Monuments and memorials

A statue of Hans Christian Ørsted was installed in the Ørsted Park in 1880. A commemorative plaque is located above the gate on the building in  where he lived and worked. In 1885, a statue of Ørsted was installed in the Oxford University Museum of Natural History. Ørsted's likeness has appeared twice on Danish banknotes; for the first time on 500kroner notes issued in 1875, and for the second time on 100kroner notes issued between 1962 and 1974. Awards and lectures
Two medals are awarded in Ørsted's name: the H. C. Ørsted Medal for Danish scientists, awarded by the Danish Society for the Dissemination of Natural Science (SNU), as founded by Ørsted, and the Oersted Medal for notable contributions in the teaching of physics in America, awarded by American Association of Physics Teachers. The Technical University of Denmark hosts the H. C. Ørsted Lecture series for prominent and engaging researchers from around the world. Works
Ørsted was a published poet, as well as scientist. His poetry series  ("The Airship") was inspired by the balloon flights of fellow physicist and stage magician Étienne-Gaspard Robert. In 1850, shortly before his death, he submitted for publication a two-volume collection of philosophical articles in German under the title  ("The Soul in Nature"). It was translated into English and published in one volume in 1852, the year after his death. Other works:

Volume I, containing correspondence with Jöns Jacob Berzelius, Christopher Hansteen, and Christian Samuel Weiss. Volume II, containing correspondence with Johann Wilhelm Ritter and numerous others, including Michael Faraday and Carl Friedrich Gauss. A significant number of Ørsted's papers were made available in English for the first time in a compilation published in 1998:

See also
 History of aluminium
 James Clerk Maxwell
 Michael Faraday
 Gian Domenico Romagnosi, who also observed an electrostatic attraction of a compass needle. Notes

References

Further reading

Abridged in

External links

 
 Physics Tree: Hans Christian Ørsted Details
 Interactive Java Tutorial on Oersted's Compass Experiment National High Magnetic Field Laboratory
 

1777 births
1851 deaths
19th-century Danish scientists
People from Langeland Municipality
Fellows of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences
Danish chemists
Danish physicists
Discoverers of chemical elements
Independent scientists
Recipients of the Copley Medal
University of Copenhagen alumni
Members of the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences
People associated with electricity
18th-century Danish people
19th-century Danish people
Foreign Members of the Royal Society
Fellows of the Royal Society of Edinburgh
Recipients of the Pour le Mérite (civil class)
Magneticians
19th-century chemists
Aluminium
Rectors of the University of Copenhagen
Pantheists
Articles containing video clips