[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: herbal medicine drug interaction pharmacokinetics | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: herbal medicine drug interaction pharmacokinetics]

1. PeerJ. 2023 Nov 15;11:e16149. doi: 10.7717/peerj.16149. eCollection 2023.

Pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic herb-drug interactions-part I. Herbal 
medicines of the central nervous system.

Czigle S(1), Nagy M(1), Mladěnka P(2), Tóth J(1); OEMONOM..

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacognosy and Botany, Faculty of Pharmacy, Comenius 
University Bratislava, Bratislava, Slovak Republic.
(2)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, Faculty of Pharmacy, Charles 
University, Hradec Králové, Czech Republic.

Unlike conventional drug substances, herbal medicines are composed of a complex 
of biologically active compounds. Therefore, the potential occurrence of 
herb-drug interactions is even more probable than for drug-drug interactions. 
Interactions can occur on both the pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic level. 
Herbal medicines may affect the resulting efficacy of the concomitantly used 
(synthetic) drugs, mainly on the pharmacokinetic level, by changing their 
absorption, distribution, metabolism, and excretion. Studies on the 
pharmacodynamic interactions of herbal medicines and conventional drugs are 
still very limited. This interaction level is related to the mechanism of action 
of different plant constituents. Herb-drug interactions can cause changes in 
drug levels and activities and lead to therapeutic failure and/or side effects 
(sometimes toxicities, even fatal). This review aims to provide a summary of 
recent information on the potential drug interactions involving commonly used 
herbal medicines that affect the central nervous system (Camellia, Valeriana, 
Ginkgo, Hypericum, Humulus, Cannabis) and conventional drugs. The survey 
databases were used to identify primary scientific publications, case reports, 
and secondary databases on interactions were used later on as well. Search 
keywords were based on plant names (botanical genera), officinal herbal drugs, 
herbal drug preparations, herbal drug extracts.

© 2023 Czigle et al.

DOI: 10.7717/peerj.16149
PMCID: PMC10656908
PMID: 38025741 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.