[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: magnetic nanoparticle hyperthermia cancer therapy | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: magnetic nanoparticle hyperthermia cancer therapy]

44. Acc Chem Res. 2011 Oct 18;44(10):863-74. doi: 10.1021/ar200085c. Epub 2011
Aug  8.

Theranostic magnetic nanoparticles.

Yoo D(1), Lee JH, Shin TH, Cheon J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, Yonsei University, Seoul 120-749, Korea.

Erratum in
    Acc Chem Res. 2012 Sep 18;45(9):1622.

Early detection and treatment of disease is the most important component of a 
favorable prognosis. Biomedical researchers have thus invested tremendous effort 
in improving imaging techniques and treatment methods. Over the past decade, 
concepts and tools derived from nanotechnology have been applied to overcome the 
problems of conventional techniques for advanced diagnosis and therapy. In 
particular, advances in nanoparticle technology have created new paradigms for 
theranostics, which is defined as the combination of therapeutic and diagnostic 
agents within a single platform. In this Account, we examine the potential 
advantages and opportunities afforded by magnetic nanoparticles as platform 
materials for theranostics. We begin with a brief overview of relevant magnetic 
parameters, such as saturation magnetization, coercivity, and magnetocrystalline 
anisotropy. Understanding the interplay of these parameters is critical for 
optimizing magnetic characteristics needed for effective imaging and 
therapeutics, which include magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) relaxivity, heat 
emission, and attractive forces. We then discuss approaches to constructing an 
MRI nanoparticle contrast agent with high sensitivity. We further introduce a 
new design concept for a fault-free contrast agent, which is a T1 and T2 dual 
mode hybrid. Important capabilities of magnetic nanoparticles are the external 
controllability of magnetic heat generation and magnetic attractive forces for 
the transportation and movement of biological objects. We show that these 
functions can be utilized not only for therapeutic hyperthermia of cancer but 
also for controlled release of cancer drugs through the application of an 
external magnetic field. Additionally, the use of magnetic nanoparticles to 
drive mechanical forces is demonstrated to be useful for molecular-level cell 
signaling and for controlling the ultimate fate of the cell. Finally, we show 
that targeted imaging and therapy are made possible by attaching a variety of 
imaging and therapeutic components. These added components include therapeutic 
genes (small interfering RNA, or siRNA), cancer-specific ligands, and optical 
reporting dyes. The wide range of accessible features of magnetic nanoparticles 
underscores their potential as the most promising platform material available 
for theranostics.

DOI: 10.1021/ar200085c
PMID: 21823593 [Indexed for MEDLINE]