[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: Robert Forester Mushet | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Robert Forester Mushet — Overview

heavily used part of the station approach where the iron rails had to be renewed at least every six months, and occasionally every three. Six years later, in 1863, the rail seemed as perfect as ever, although some 700 trains had passed over it daily. During its 16 years "life" 1,252,000 detached engines and tenders at the least, apart from trains, had passed over that rail. Dozzles
When steel solidifies in a mould, uneven cooling causes a central cavity or 'pipe' to form in the casting. In 1861, Mushet invented the 'Dozzle'; a clay cone or sleeve, heated white hot and inserted into the top of the ingot mould near the end of the pour, and then filled with molten steel. Its purpose was to maintain a reservoir of molten steel, which drained down and filled the pipe as the casting cooled. Mushet claimed this, and other small inventions of his, saved the steelmakers of Sheffield 'many millions of pounds' (in 19th century money), yet he received neither payment nor recognition for these inventions. Dozzles, now called hot tops or feeder heads, are still in use today. Steel alloys 

In a second key advance in metallurgy Mushet invented 'R Mushet's Special Steel' (RMS) in 1868. It was both the first true tool steel and the first air-hardening steel. Previously, the only way to make steel hard enough for machine tools had been to quench it, by rapid cooling in water. With self-hardening (or tungsten) steel, machine tools could run much faster and were able to cut harder metals than had been possible previously. RMS revolutionised the design of machine tools and the progress of industrial metalworking, and was the forerunner of high speed steel. See also
Crucible steel
 Spathic iron ore

References

Bibliography

Further reading
 Fred M. Osborn, The Story of the Mushets, London, Thomas Nelson & Sons (1952)

1811 births
1891 deaths
Businesspeople in steel
English inventors
History of Sheffield
British metallurgists
People from Coleford, Gloucestershire
People of the Industrial Revolution
Bessemer Gold Medal