[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: graphene biomedical applications toxicity review | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: graphene biomedical applications toxicity review]

67. Cureus. 2024 Apr 28;16(4):e59234. doi: 10.7759/cureus.59234. eCollection 2024
 Apr.

Nanotechnology's Applications and Potential in Various Fields.

Soni AK(1), Jha RK(2).

Author information:
(1)Medical Education, Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College, Datta Meghe Institute of 
Higher Education and Research, Wardha, IND.
(2)Biochemistry, Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College, Datta Meghe Institute of 
Higher Education and Research, Wardha, IND.

Since ancient times, several sorts of nanoparticles have been employed in the 
quickly expanding field of nanotechnology. These features include size, shape, 
and chemical as well as physical properties. Because of their small size and 
huge surface area, carbon-based nanoparticles, including fullerenes, carbon 
nanotubes, graphene, graphene oxide, and carbon-based quantum dots, have 
attracted a lot of attention in a variety of sectors, including biomedical 
applications. Lipid bilayers form the spherical vesicles known as liposomes. 
Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) contrast agents are iron oxide nanoparticles. 
These materials are perfect for drug and delivery of genes, bioimaging, and bone 
repair because of their remarkable mechanical, electrical, visual, and chemical 
properties. However, concerns about potential asbestos-related diseases have 
arisen due to their length-to-width aspect ratio. Ceramic nanoparticles, on the 
other hand, are a common material in daily life and play a crucial role in bone 
repair, multiscale hybridisation, and aerospace structures. These nanoparticles 
can enhance osseointegration and bone development by mimicking the 
nanocomposition and nanoscale characteristics of bone tissue and enhance 
osteoconductive and osteoinductive capacities. Ceramic nanoparticles, however, 
have the potential to generate oxidative stress, which can result in irritation 
of the reticuloendothelial system, cytotoxicity to the heart, liver, and lungs, 
as well as toxicity to the cells that are attached. Additionally, oxidative 
stress, cell damage, and genotoxicity might result from the generation of free 
radicals by ceramic nanoparticles. Metal nanoparticles exhibit linear optical 
properties similar to molecular systems but arise from a different physical 
process. Semiconductor nanocrystals (NCs) are made from various compounds, such 
as silicon and germanium. Polyandry nanoparticles are particles approximately 10 
and 10000 nanometers (nm) in size that can contain active substances. They have 
applications in vaccine delivery, gene therapy, and polymer nanoparticles 
(nanomedicine) for therapeutic applications.

Copyright © 2024, Soni et al.

DOI: 10.7759/cureus.59234
PMCID: PMC11134515
PMID: 38813303

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.