[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: herbal medicine drug interaction pharmacokinetics | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: herbal medicine drug interaction pharmacokinetics]

6. J Food Drug Anal. 2018 Apr;26(2S):S88-S95. doi: 10.1016/j.jfda.2018.01.003.
Epub  2018 Feb 3.

Concurrent administration of anticancer chemotherapy drug and herbal medicine on 
the perspective of pharmacokinetics.

Cheng YY(1), Hsieh CH(2), Tsai TH(3).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Traditional Medicine, National Yang-Ming University, Taipei, 
112, Taiwan.
(2)Institute of Traditional Medicine, National Yang-Ming University, Taipei, 
112, Taiwan; Division of Radiation Oncology, Department of Radiology, Far 
Eastern Memorial Hospital, New Taipei City, 220, Taiwan; Faculty of Medicine, 
School of Medicine, National Yang-Ming University, Taipei, Taiwan. Electronic 
address: chenciab@gmail.com.
(3)Institute of Traditional Medicine, National Yang-Ming University, Taipei, 
112, Taiwan; Graduate Institute of Acupuncture Science, China Medical 
University, Taichung, 404, Taiwan; School of Pharmacy, College of Pharmacy, 
Kaohsiung Medical University, Kaohsiung, 807, Taiwan; Department of Chemical 
Engineering, National United University, Miaoli, 36063, Taiwan. Electronic 
address: thtsai@ym.edu.tw.

With an increasing number of cancer patients seeking an improved quality of 
life, complementary and alternative therapies are becoming more common ways to 
achieve such improvements. The potential risks of concurrent administration are 
serious and must be addressed. However, comprehensive evidence for the risks and 
benefits of combining anticancer drugs with traditional herbs is rare. 
Pharmacokinetic investigations are an efficient way to understand the influence 
of concomitant remedies. Therefore, this study aimed to collect the results of 
pharmacokinetic studies relating to the concurrent use of cancer chemotherapy 
and complementary and alternative therapies. According to the National Health 
Insurance (NHI) database in Taiwan and several publications, the three most 
commonly prescribed formulations for cancer patients are 
Xiang-Sha-Liu-Jun-Zi-Tang, Jia-Wei-Xiao-Yao-San and Bu-Zhong-Yi-Qi-Tang. The 
three most commonly prescribed single herbs for cancer patients are Hedyotis 
diffusa, Scutellaria barbata, and Astragalus membranaceus. Few studies have 
discussed herb-drug interactions involving these herbs from a pharmacokinetics 
perspective. Here, we reviewed Jia-Wei-Xiao-Yao-San, Long-Dan-Xie-Gan-Tang, 
Curcuma longa and milk thistle to provide information based on pharmacokinetic 
evidence for healthcare professionals to use in educating patients about the 
risks of the concomitant use of various remedies.

Copyright © 2018. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jfda.2018.01.003
PMCID: PMC9326883
PMID: 29703390 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interest The authors declare no 
conflicts of interest.