[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: herbal medicine drug interaction pharmacokinetics | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: herbal medicine drug interaction pharmacokinetics]

51. Biomed Pharmacother. 2021 Jun;138:111445. doi: 10.1016/j.biopha.2021.111445. 
Epub 2021 Mar 10.

Drug-herb interactions between Scutellaria baicalensis and pharmaceutical drugs: 
Insights from experimental studies, mechanistic actions to clinical 
applications.

Zhou X(1), Fu L(2), Wang P(3), Yang L(3), Zhu X(4), Li CG(5).

Author information:
(1)NICM Health Research Institute, Western Sydney University, Locked Bag 1797, 
Penrith, NSW 2751, Australia. Electronic address: p.zhou@westernsydney.edu.au.
(2)Chinese Medicine Centre, School of Health Sciences, Western Sydney 
University, Penrith, NSW 2751, Australia; The First Clinical Medical College, 
Nanjing University of Chinese Medicine, Nanjing, Jiangsu 210023, People's 
Republic of China; The Second Affiliated Hospital of Nanjing University of 
Chinese Medicine (Jiangsu Second Chinese Medicine Hospital), Nanjing, Jiangsu 
210017, People's Republic of China.
(3)Chinese Medicine Centre, School of Health Sciences, Western Sydney 
University, Penrith, NSW 2751, Australia; School of Chinese Medicine, School of 
Integrated Chinese & Western Medicine, Nanjing University of Chinese Medicine, 
Nanjing, Jiangsu 210023, People's Republic of China.
(4)Chinese Medicine Centre, School of Health Sciences, Western Sydney 
University, Penrith, NSW 2751, Australia.
(5)NICM Health Research Institute, Western Sydney University, Locked Bag 1797, 
Penrith, NSW 2751, Australia. Electronic address: c.li@westernsydney.edu.au.

Whilst the popular use of herbal medicine globally, it poses challenges in 
managing potential drug-herb interaction. There are two folds of the drug-herb 
interaction, a beneficial interaction that may improve therapeutic outcome and 
minimise the toxicity of drug desirably; by contrast, negative interaction may 
evoke unwanted clinical consequences, especially with drugs of narrow 
therapeutic index. Scutellaria baicalensis Georgi is one of the most popular 
medicinal plants used in Asian countries. It has been widely used for treating 
various diseases and conditions such as cancer, diabetes, inflammation, and 
oxidative stress. Studies on its extract and bioactive compounds have shown 
pharmacodynamic and pharmacokinetic interactions with a wide range of 
pharmaceutical drugs as evidenced by plenty of in vitro, in vivo and clinical 
studies. Notably, S. baicalensis and its bioactives including baicalein, 
baicalin and wogonin exhibited synergistic interactions with many pharmaceutical 
drugs to enhance their efficacy, reduce toxicity or overcome drug resistance to 
combat complex diseases such as cancer, diabetes and infectious diseases. On the 
other hand, S. baicalensis and its bioactives also affected the pharmacokinetic 
profile of many drugs in absorption, distribution, metabolism and elimination 
via the regulatory actions of the efflux pumps and cytochrome P450 enzymes. This 
review provides comprehensive references of the observed pharmacodynamic and 
pharmacokinetic drug interactions of Scutellaria baicalensis and its bioactives. 
We have elucidated the interaction with detailed mechanistic actions, identified 
the knowledge gaps for future research and potential clinical implications. Such 
knowledge is important for the practice of both conventional and complementary 
medicines, and it is essential to ensure the safe use of related herbal 
medicines. The review may be of great interest to practitioners, consumers, 
clinicians who require comprehensive information on the possible drug 
interactions with S. baicalensis and its bioactives.

Copyright © 2021 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biopha.2021.111445
PMID: 33711551 [Indexed for MEDLINE]