[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: MRI physics image quality artifact reduction | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: MRI physics image quality artifact reduction]

35. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2015 Mar 15;91(4):849-56. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijrobp.2014.12.027.

MRI-based computed tomography metal artifact correction method for improving 
proton range calculation accuracy.

Park PC(1), Schreibmann E(2), Roper J(2), Elder E(2), Crocker I(2), Fox T(3), 
Zhu XR(1), Dong L(4), Dhabaan A(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Physics, University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer 
Center, Houston, Texas.
(2)Department of Radiation Oncology, Winship Cancer Institute of Emory 
University, Atlanta, Georgia.
(3)Varian Medical Systems, Palo Alto, California.
(4)Scripps Proton Therapy Center, San Diego, California.
(5)Department of Radiation Oncology, Winship Cancer Institute of Emory 
University, Atlanta, Georgia. Electronic address: anees.dhabaan@emory.edu.

PURPOSE: Computed tomography (CT) artifacts can severely degrade dose 
calculation accuracy in proton therapy. Prompted by the recently increased 
popularity of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in the radiation therapy clinic, 
we developed an MRI-based CT artifact correction method for improving the 
accuracy of proton range calculations.
METHODS AND MATERIALS: The proposed method replaces corrupted CT data by mapping 
CT Hounsfield units (HU number) from a nearby artifact-free slice, using a 
coregistered MRI. MRI and CT volumetric images were registered with use of 
3-dimensional (3D) deformable image registration (DIR). The registration was 
fine-tuned on a slice-by-slice basis by using 2D DIR. Based on the intensity of 
paired MRI pixel values and HU from an artifact-free slice, we performed a 
comprehensive analysis to predict the correct HU for the corrupted region. For a 
proof-of-concept validation, metal artifacts were simulated on a reference data 
set. Proton range was calculated using reference, artifactual, and corrected 
images to quantify the reduction in proton range error. The correction method 
was applied to 4 unique clinical cases.
RESULTS: The correction method resulted in substantial artifact reduction, both 
quantitatively and qualitatively. On respective simulated brain and head and 
neck CT images, the mean error was reduced from 495 and 370 HU to 108 and 92 HU 
after correction. Correspondingly, the absolute mean proton range errors of 2.4 
cm and 1.7 cm were reduced to less than 2 mm in both cases.
CONCLUSIONS: Our MRI-based CT artifact correction method can improve CT image 
quality and proton range calculation accuracy for patients with severe CT 
artifacts.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijrobp.2014.12.027
PMID: 25752400 [Indexed for MEDLINE]