[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: traditional Chinese medicine herbs mechanism actio | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: traditional Chinese medicine herbs mechanism action]

11. Am J Chin Med. 2023;51(8):1957-1981. doi: 10.1142/S0192415X23500866. Epub
2023  Oct 27.

Traditional Chinese Medicine in Osteoporosis Intervention and the Related 
Regulatory Mechanism of Gut Microbiome.

Li K(1)(2), Jiang Y(1), Wang N(3), Lai L(1), Xu S(1), Xia T(1), Yue X(2), Xin 
H(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacognosy, School of Pharmacy, Naval Medical University, 
Shanghai, P. R. China.
(2)Department of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Changzheng Hospital, Naval 
Medical University, Shanghai, P. R. China.
(3)Department of Medicine, Zhejiang Academy of Traditional Chinese Medicine, 
Hangzhou, P. R. China.

The gut microbiome (GM) has become a crucial factor that can affect the 
progression of osteoporosis. A number of studies have demonstrated the impact of 
Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM) on GM and bone metabolism. In this review, we 
summarize the potential mechanisms of the relationship between osteoporosis and 
GM disorder and introduce several natural Chinese medicines that exert 
anti-osteoporosis effects by modulating the GM. It is underlined that, through 
the provision of the microbial associated molecular pattern (MAMP), the GM 
causes inflammatory reactions and alterations in the Treg-Th17 balance and 
ultimately leads to changes in bone mass. Serotonin and many hormones, 
especially estrogen, may play a crucial role in the interaction of the GM with 
bone metabolism. Additionally, the GM may affect the absorption of specific 
nutrients in the intestine, particularly minerals like calcium, magnesium, and 
phosphorus. Several natural Chinese herbs, such as Sambucus Williamsii, 
Achyranthes bidentata Blume, Pleurotus ostreatus and Ganoderma lucidum 
mushrooms, Pueraria Lobata, and Agaricus blazei Murill have exhibited 
anti-osteoporosis effects through regulating the distribution and metabolism of 
the GM. These herbs may increase the abundance of Firmicutes, decrease the 
abundance of Bacteroides, promote the GM to produce more SCFAs, modulate the 
immune response caused by harmful bacteria, and increase the proportion of 
Treg-Th17 to indirectly affect bone metabolism. Moreover, gut-derived 5-HT is an 
important target for TCM to prevent osteoporosis via the gut-bone axis. Puerarin 
could prevent osteoporosis by improving intestinal mucosal integrity and 
decrease systemic inflammation caused by estrogen deficiency.

DOI: 10.1142/S0192415X23500866
PMID: 37884447 [Indexed for MEDLINE]