[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: Ilya Yashin | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Ilya Yashin — Overview

court ordered his pretrial detention; Yashin was tried over a YouTube video released in April 2022 in which he discussed the discovery of murdered Ukrainian civilians in the suburban town of Bucha, near Kyiv. State prosecutor requested nine years in prison for Yashin. Amnesty International and other organisations called on the government to release him immediately, regarding his case as part of repressions on war critics. On 9 December, a Moscow court sentenced Yashin to eight years and six months imprisonment for his statements about the circumstances of the killings in Bucha on charges of "spreading false information" about the armed forces. His punishment was the harshest given under the new laws which criminalize spreading "false" information about the armed forces. In his closing remarks to the court ahead of the verdict, Yashin said: "As if they will sew my mouth shut and I would be forbidden to speak forever. Everyone understands that this is the point. I am isolated from society because they want me to be silent. I promise as long as I’m alive I’ll never will be. My mission is to tell the truth. I will not give up the truth even behind bars. After all, quoting the classic: 'Lie is the religion of slaves.'" 

Yashin said about Russian President Vladimir Putin that "Strong leaders are calm and self-confident, and only weaklings seek to shut everyone up, burn out any dissent." Before his sentencing, he urged Putin to "immediately stop this madness, recognise that the policy on Ukraine was wrong, pull back troops from its territory and switch to a diplomatic settlement of the conflict". He further said addressing Putin: "You have brought terrible misfortune to the Ukrainian people, who will probably never forgive us." 

In his closing speech, he said that "it is better to spend 10 years behind bars as an honest man than silently burning with shame for the blood that your government sheds."

On 19 April 2023, Yashin lost his appeal to his eight-and-a-half years sentence at the Moscow City Court. In his speech before the court, Yashin called Putin a wanted war criminal and said that Putin's war censorship laws violate the 1993 Russian Constitution, which expressly prohibits censorship. Electoral history

See also
Putin. War
Russian 2022 war censorship laws

References

Literature
 Mickiewicz E. No Illusions: The Voices of Russia's Future Leaders. — Oxford University Press, 2014. — P. 198. — 288 p. — . — . Putin's Opponents: Enemies of the People / The Associated Press. — Mango Media, 2015. — 198 p. — . — . Bennetts M. I'm Going to Ruin Their Lives: Inside Putin's War on Russia's Opposition. — Oneworld Publications, 2016. — P. 99—101, 105, 149. — 320 p. — . — . Lyytikainen L. Performing Political Opposition in Russia: The Case of the Youth Group Oborona. — Routledge, 2016. — 202 p. — (The Mobilization Series on Social Movements, Protest, and Culture). — . — . External links
Yashin's blog
Yashin's page on the Solidarity website
Yashin's page on the Yabloko website

1983 births
Living people
Politicians from Moscow
People's Freedom Party politicians
Solidarnost politicians
21st-century Russian politicians
Yabloko politicians
2011–2013 Russian protests
Russian dissidents
Amnesty International prisoners of conscience held by Russia
European Court of Human Rights cases involving Russia
Russian prisoners and detainees
Russian YouTubers
Russian activists against the Russian invasion of Ukraine
People listed in Russia as foreign agents