[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: magnetic resonance spectroscopy metabolite brain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: magnetic resonance spectroscopy metabolite brain]

77. Magn Reson Med. 2002 Dec;48(6):949-58. doi: 10.1002/mrm.10304.

Brain metabolite composition during early human brain development as measured by 
quantitative in vivo 1H magnetic resonance spectroscopy.

Kreis R(1), Hofmann L, Kuhlmann B, Boesch C, Bossi E, Hüppi PS.

Author information:
(1)MR Spectroscopy and Methodology Unit, Department of Clinical Research, 
University Berne, Berne, Switzerland. roland.kreis@insel.ch

Biochemical maturation of the brain can be studied noninvasively by (1)H 
magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) in human infants. Detailed time courses of 
cerebral tissue contents are known for the most abundant metabolites only, and 
whether or not premature birth affects biochemical maturation of the brain is 
disputed. Hence, the last trimester of gestation was observed in infants born 
prematurely, and their cerebral metabolite contents at birth and at expected 
term were compared with those of fullterm infants. Successful quantitative 
short-TE (1)H MRS was performed in three cerebral locations in 21 infants in 28 
sessions (gestational age 32-43 weeks). The spectra were analyzed with linear 
combination model fitting, considerably extending the range of observable 
metabolites to include acetate, alanine, aspartate, cholines, creatines, 
gamma-aminobutyrate, glucose, glutamine, glutamate, glutathione, glycine, 
lactate, myo-inositol, macromolecular contributions, N-acetylaspartate, 
N-acetylaspartylglutamate, o-phosphoethanolamine, scyllo-inositol, taurine, and 
threonine. Significant effects of age and location were found for many 
metabolites, including the previously observed neuronal maturation reflected by 
an increase in N-acetylaspartate. Absolute brain metabolite content in premature 
infants at term was not considerably different from that in fullterm infants, 
indicating that prematurity did not affect biochemical brain maturation 
substantially in the studied population, which did not include infants of 
extremely low birthweight.

Copyright 2002 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/mrm.10304
PMID: 12465103 [Indexed for MEDLINE]