[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: low-level laser therapy wound healing pain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: low-level laser therapy wound healing pain]

64. Cureus. 2019 Dec 21;11(12):e6438. doi: 10.7759/cureus.6438.

Efficacy of Low-level Laser Therapy, Hyaluronic Acid Gel, and Herbal Gel as 
Adjunctive Tools in Gingivectomy Wound Healing: A Randomized Comparative 
Clinical and Histological Study.

Reddy SP(1), Koduganti RR(1), Panthula VR(1), Surya Prasanna J(1), Gireddy H(1), 
Dasari R(1), Ambati M(1), Chandra G B(1).

Author information:
(1)Periodontics, Panineeya Mahavidyalaya Institute of Dental Sciences and 
Research Centre, Hyderabad, IND.

Introduction Gingival overgrowth is usually an inflammatory response to plaque 
present on tooth surfaces. The other causes could be drugs and other systemic 
conditions. When the local factors are responsible and subgingival scaling does 
not help, gingivectomy is performed. The gingivectomy wound is raw and heals 
slowly. Low-level laser therapy (LLLT), hyaluronic acid, and herbal gels aid in 
healing after a gingivectomy. This study compared the efficacy of LLLT, 
hyaluronic acid, and herbal gel when used topically after a gingivectomy. This 
was a single-arm, interventional trial wherein 30 patients aged between 18 and 
40 years with moderate gingival overgrowth participated. The study was approved 
by the institutional ethical committee. (DN/0109-16). The participants signed 
the consent form and the study was also registered (NCT03569683). Materials and 
methods The samples were equally divided into three groups. Group A received 
LLLT immediately postop, and on the first, third, and seventh days after 
surgery. Group B received hyaluronic acid (Gengigel) while Group C received an 
herbal gel (Hiora SG) for the same time periods after surgery, respectively. 
Analysis of variance (ANOVA) followed by a post-hoc Bonferroni test was used to 
evaluate differences within groups. Intergroup comparison was performed using 
the independent t-test. A p-value of <0.05 was considered statistically 
significant. Results The plaque index (PI), gingival index (GI), and gingival 
enlargement index (GEI) showed good improvement postoperatively within the 
groups, which was statistically significant. However, on an intergroup 
comparison, the GEI pertaining only to the laser group showed significant 
changes. Also, the pain perception analyzed by the visual analog score (VAS) was 
the least, and histologically, the amount of mature collagen fibers laid down 
were more in the laser group. Conclusion Patients irradiated with laser after 
gingivectomy (Group A) showed superior results in the clinical, histological 
variables as compared to Groups B and C.

Copyright © 2019, Reddy et al.

DOI: 10.7759/cureus.6438
PMCID: PMC6970443
PMID: 31993275

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.