[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: A Modern Herbal — Mrs. M. Grieve | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# A Modern Herbal — Mrs. M. Grieve — Overview

would have been no call for its tapering delicacy, its calculated balance of lightness and strength, had not the violinist's technique reached such marvellous fineness of power. For it is the accomplished artist who is fastidious as to his tools; the bungling beginner can bungle with anything. The fiddle-bow, however, affords only one example of a rule which is equally well exemplified by many humbler tools. Quarryman's peck, coachman's whip, cricket-bat,
     fishing-rod, trowel, all have their intimate relation to the
     skill of those who use them; and like animals and plants,
     adapting themselves each to its own place in the universal
     order, they attain to beauty by force of being fit. That law
     of adaptation which shapes the wings of a swallow and
     prescribes the poise and elegance of the branches of trees
     is the same that demands symmetry in the corn-rick and
     convexity in the beer-barrel; the same that, exerting itself
     with matchless precision through the trained senses of
     haymakers and woodmen, gives the final curve to the handles
     of their scythes and the shafts of their axes. Hence the
     beauty of a tool is an unfailing sign that in the proper
     handling of it technique is present ... 'It is not the well-informed and those eager to teach', he says in
another passage,

     who know the primitive necessary lore of civilization; it is
     the illiterate. In California, Louis Stevenson found men
     studying the quality of vines grown on different pockets of
     earth, just as the peasants of Burgundy and the Rhine have
     done for ages. And even so the English generations have
     watched the produce of their varying soils. When or how was
     it learnt--was it at Oxford or at Cambridge?--that the
     apples of Devonshire are so specially fit for cider? Or how
     is it that hops are growing--some of them planted before
     living memory--all along the strip of green sand which
     encircles the Weald--that curious strip to which text-books
     at last point triumphantly as being singularly adapted for
     hops? Until it got into the books, this piece of knowledge
     was not thought of as learning; it had merely been acted
     upon during some centuries. But such knowledge exists,
     boundless, in whatever direction one follows it: the
     knowledge of fitting means to ends: excellent rule-of-thumb
     knowledge, as good as the chemist uses for analyzing water. When the peculiar values of a plot of land have been
     established--as, for instance, that it is a clay 'too
     strong' for bricks--then further forms of localized
     knowledge are brought to supplement this, until at last the
     bricks are made. Next, they must be removed from the field;
     and immediately new problems arise. The old farm-cart,
     designed for roots or manure, has not the most suitable
     shape for brick-carting. Probably, too, its wide wheels,
     which were intended for the softness of ploughed land, are
     needlessly clumsy for the hard road. Soon, therefore, the
     local wheelwright begins to lighten his spokes and felloes,
     and to make the wheels a trifle less 'dished'; while his
     blacksmith binds them in a narrower but thicker tyre, to
     which he gives a shade more tightness. For the wheelwright
     learns from the carter--that ignorant fellow--the answer to
     the new problems set by a load of bricks. A good carter, for
     his part, is able to adjust his labour to his locality. A
     part of his duty consists in knowing what constitutes a fair
     load for his horse in the district where he is working. So
     many hundred stock bricks, so many more fewer of the red or
     wire-cut, such and such a quantity of sand, or timber, or
     straw, or coal, or drain-pipes, or slates, according to
     their kinds and sizes, will make as much as an average horse
     can draw in this neighbourhood; but in London the loads are
     bigger and the vehicles heavier; while in more hilly parts
     (as you may see any day in the West Country) two horses are
     put before a cart and load which the London carter would
     deem hardly too much for a costermonger's donkey. So it goes throughout civilization: there is not an industry
     but produces its own special knowledge relating to
     unclassified details of adjustment.[76]

It is this craft-knowledge and common professional feeling which is at
the basis of all associations of workpeople, from the semi-religious
societies of ancient times, which met in secret to worship their
patron-god--Hephaestos, the god of the metal-workers, or Asclepios, the
god of the doctors--through the great guilds of the Middle Ages to the
trade unions and professional organizations of to-day. Trade unions do
not exist simply to raise wages or to fight the capitalist, any more
than the British Medical Association exists simply to raise fees and to
bargain with the Government.