[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: biomaterial implant osseointegration titanium clin | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: biomaterial implant osseointegration titanium clinical]

96. Am J Dent. 2022 Jun;35(2):152-160.

Review of PEEK implants and biomechanical and immunological responses to a 
zirconium phosphate nano-coated PEEK, a blasted PEEK, and a turned titanium 
implant surface.

Reinedahl D(1), Johansson P(2), Galli S(3), Kjellin P(4), Albrektsson T(3), 
Wennerberg A(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Prosthodontics, Institute of Odontology, Sahlgrenska Academy, 
Gothenburg University, Gothenburg, Sweden, d.reinedahl@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Prosthodontics, Institute of Odontology, Sahlgrenska Academy, 
Gothenburg University, Gothenburg, Sweden.
(3)Department of Prosthodontics, Faculty of Odontology, Malmõ University, Malmõ, 
Sweden.
(4)Promimic AB, AstraZeneca BioVentureHub, Mõlndal, Sweden.

PURPOSE: To investigate the biomechanical and immunological reactions to coated 
and non-coated blasted PEEK implants in vivo after 12 weeks and review the 
associated literature.
METHODS: Two osteotomy sites were performed in each proximal tibia of 10 
lop-eared rabbits (n= 4 per rabbit). Each rabbit received a randomly placed (1) 
blasted zirconium phosphate nano-coated PEEK- (nano-ZrP), (2) blasted PEEK- 
(PEEK) and (3) titanium implant (Ti) and an empty sham site. At 12 weeks, 
removal torque of all implants and biological investigation with qPCR was 
performed. The implant surfaces were analyzed prior to insertion with 
interferometry, SEM and XPS.
RESULTS: The interferometry analysis showed that there was no difference in 
roughness for the uncoated PEEK compared to the ZrP coated PEEK implants. The 
titanium implants were considerably smoother (Sa= 0.23 µm) than the uncoated Sa= 
1.11 µm) and ZrP coated PEEK implants (Sa= 1.12 µm). SEM analysis on the PEEK 
implants corroborated the interferometry results; no difference in structure 
between the uncoated vs. the ZrP coated PEEK was visible on the micrometer 
level. At higher magnifications, the ZrP coating was visible in the SEM as a 
thin, porous network. All tested implants displayed osseointegration with the 
highest RTQ for nano-ZrP (18.4 Ncm) followed by PEEK (14.5 Ncm) and Ti (11.5 
Ncm). All implants activated the immune system, with elevated macrophage and M2 
macrophage qPCR markers at 12 weeks compared to the sham site.
CLINICAL SIGNIFICANCE: Nano-ZrP coating improves osseointegration of blasted 
PEEK implants at 12 weeks of follow-up. Osseointegration of titanium, PEEK and 
nano-ZrP PEEK is not a normal bone healing process, but rather a shield-off 
mechanism that appears to be regulated by the innate immune system.

Copyright©American Journal of Dentistry.

PMID: 35798711 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: P. Kjellin is employed by Promimic AB, a company 
which specializes in implant surface treatments. The other authors declared no 
conflict of interest. Grants received from the Swedish Research Council, 
2015-06109 and 2015-02971.