[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: optical coherence tomography retinal diagnosis | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: optical coherence tomography retinal diagnosis]

24. Surv Ophthalmol. 2026 Mar-Apr;71(2):467-482. doi: 
10.1016/j.survophthal.2025.07.009. Epub 2025 Jul 22.

Relentless placoid chorioretinitis.

Hooper CY(1), Ferreira LB(2), Vaze A(3), Vasconcelos-Santos DV(4), Goldstein 
DA(5), Gertig D(6), Smith JR(7).

Author information:
(1)Save Sight Institute, University of Sydney, Sydney, New South Wales, 
Australia.
(2)Centro de Medicina Humanizado, Curitiba, Paraná, Brazil.
(3)Save Sight Institute, University of Sydney, Sydney, New South Wales, 
Australia; Sydney Eye Hospital, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.
(4)Departmento de Oftalmologia e Otorrinolaringologia, Faculdade de Medicina da 
Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais, Belo Horizonte, Minas Gerais, Brazil.
(5)Department of Ophthalmology, Northwestern University Feinberg School of 
Medicine, Chicago, IL, United States.
(6)Flinders Health and Medical Research Institute and College of Medicine and 
Public Health, Flinders University, Adelaide, South Australia, Australia.
(7)Flinders Health and Medical Research Institute and College of Medicine and 
Public Health, Flinders University, Adelaide, South Australia, Australia. 
Electronic address: justine.smith@flinders.edu.au.

Relentless placoid chorioretinitis (RPC) is a rare, vision-threatening posterior 
uveitis that predominantly affects young adults. The hallmark clinical findings 
are numerous scattered placoid chorioretinal lesions involving the midperipheral 
and far peripheral fundus as well as the posterior pole and a persistent or 
recurrent course resulting in lesions at different chronological stages, with 
fresh creamy placoid lesions and healing pigmented lesions being present at the 
same time. Although RPC is frequently described as a disease that is 
intermediate between acute posterior multifocal placoid pigment epitheliopathy 
(APMPPE) and serpiginous choroiditis, it more closely resembles APMPPE. It is 
important to identify those patients with RPC who present with an APMPPE 
phenotype so that appropriate immunomodulatory therapy is instituted without 
delay, as most cases of RPC are refractory to corticosteroid monotherapy. 
Examination findings may help differentiate RPC and APMPPE. Multimodal imaging, 
including ultra-widefield imaging, and selective investigations aid in 
distinguishing RPC from other placoid diseases and types of posterior uveitis.

Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.survophthal.2025.07.009
PMID: 40706821 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare the following financial interests/personal relationships which may be 
considered as potential competing interests: Justine R. Smith reports financial 
support was provided by National Health and Medical Research Council, Australia. 
The other authors declare that they have no known competing financial interests 
or personal relationships that could have appeared to influence the work 
reported in this paper.