[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: phytotherapy systematic review clinical evidence | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: phytotherapy systematic review clinical evidence]

11. BMC Complement Med Ther. 2021 Apr 7;21(1):112. doi:
10.1186/s12906-021-03283-5.

Elderberry for prevention and treatment of viral respiratory illnesses: a 
systematic review.

Wieland LS(1), Piechotta V(2), Feinberg T(3)(4)(5), Ludeman E(6), Hutton 
B(7)(8), Kanji S(7)(9), Seely D(9)(10)(11), Garritty C(7).

Author information:
(1)Center for Integrative Medicine, University of Maryland School of Medicine, 
Baltimore, MD, USA. swieland@som.umaryland.edu.
(2)Evidence-based Oncology, Department I of Internal Medicine, Center for 
Integrated Oncology Aachen Bonn Cologne Duesseldorf, Faculty of Medicine and 
University Hospital Cologne, University of Cologne, Cologne, Germany.
(3)Kelly Government Solutions, Rockville, MD, USA.
(4)Pain Research, Informatics, Multimorbidities, and Education (PRIME) Center, 
VA Connecticut Healthcare System, West Haven, CT, USA.
(5)Yale Center for Medical Informatics, Yale University School of Medicine, New 
Haven, CT, USA.
(6)University of Maryland, Health Sciences and Human Services Library, 
Baltimore, MD, USA.
(7)The Ottawa Hospital Research Institute (OHRI), Ottawa, Ontario, Canada.
(8)University of Ottawa, School of Epidemiology and Public Health, Ottawa, 
Ontario, Canada.
(9)The Ottawa Hospital, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada.
(10)The Canadian College of Naturopathic Medicine, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(11)The Centre for Health Innovation, The Canadian College of Naturopathic 
Medicine, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada.

BACKGROUND: Elderberry has traditionally been used to prevent and treat 
respiratory problems. During the COVID-19 pandemic, there has been interest in 
elderberry supplements to treat or prevent illness, but also concern that 
elderberry might overstimulate the immune system and increase the risk of 
'cytokine storm'. We aimed to determine benefits and harms of elderberry for the 
prevention and treatment of viral respiratory infections, and to assess the 
relationship between elderberry supplements and negative health impacts 
associated with overproduction of pro-inflammatory cytokines.
METHODS: We conducted a systematic review and searched six databases, four 
research registers, and two preprint sites for studies. Two reviewers 
independently assessed studies for inclusion, extracted data from studies, 
assessed risk of bias using Cochrane tools, and evaluated certainty of estimates 
using GRADE. Outcomes included new illnesses and the severity and duration of 
illness.
RESULTS: We screened 1187 records and included five randomized trials on 
elderberry for the treatment or prevention of viral respiratory illness. We did 
not find any studies linking elderberry to clinical inflammatory outcomes. 
However, we found three studies measuring production of cytokines ex vivo after 
ingestion of elderberry. Elderberry may not reduce the risk of developing the 
common cold; it may reduce the duration and severity of colds, but the evidence 
is uncertain. Elderberry may reduce the duration of influenza but the evidence 
is uncertain. Compared to oseltamivir, an elderberry-containing product may be 
associated with a lower risk of influenza complications and adverse events. We 
did not find evidence on elderberry and clinical outcomes related to 
inflammation. However, we found evidence that elderberry has some effect on 
inflammatory markers, although this effect may decline with ongoing 
supplementation. One small study compared elderberry to diclofenac (a 
nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug) and provided some evidence that elderberry 
is as effective or less effective than diclofenac in cytokine reduction over 
time.
CONCLUSIONS: Elderberry may be a safe option for treating viral respiratory 
illness, and there is no evidence that it overstimulates the immune system. 
However, the evidence on both benefits and harms is uncertain and information 
from recent and ongoing studies is necessary to make firm conclusions.

DOI: 10.1186/s12906-021-03283-5
PMCID: PMC8026097
PMID: 33827515 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: LSW is a Systematic Review Editor with BMC 
Complementary Medicine and Therapies and Coordinator of the Cochrane 
Complementary Medicine Field. The authors declare that they have no further 
competing interests.