[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: traditional Chinese medicine herbs mechanism actio | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: traditional Chinese medicine herbs mechanism action]

37. Pharmacol Res. 2018 Apr;130:438-450. doi: 10.1016/j.phrs.2018.02.020. Epub
2018  Feb 19.

High fructose diet-induced metabolic syndrome: Pathophysiological mechanism and 
treatment by traditional Chinese medicine.

Pan Y(1), Kong LD(2).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Pharmaceutical Biotechnology, School of Life 
Sciences, Nanjing University, Nanjing 210023, PR China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Pharmaceutical Biotechnology, School of Life 
Sciences, Nanjing University, Nanjing 210023, PR China. Electronic address: 
kongld@nju.edu.cn.

Fructose is a natural monosaccharide broadly used in modern society. Over the 
past few decades, epidemiological studies have demonstrated that high fructose 
intake is an etiological factor of metabolic syndrome (MetS). This review 
highlights research advances on fructose-induced MetS, especially the underlying 
pathophysiological mechanism as well as pharmacotherapy by traditional Chinese 
medicine (TCM), using the PubMed, Web of science, China National Knowledge 
Infrastructure, China Science and Technology Journal and Wanfang Data. This 
review focuses on de novo lipogenesis (DNL) and uric acid (UA) production, two 
unique features of fructolysis different from glucose glycolysis. High level of 
DNL and UA production can result in insulin resistance, the key pathological 
event in developing MetS, mostly through oxidative stress and inflammation. Some 
other pathologies like the disturbance in brain and gut microbiota in the 
development of fructose-induced MetS in the past years, are also discussed. In 
management of MetS, TCM is an excellent representative in alternative and 
complementary medicine with a complete theory system and substantial herbal 
remedies. TCMs against MetS or MetS components, including Chinese patent 
medicines, TCM compound formulas, single TCM herbs and active compounds of TCM 
herbs, are reviewed on their effects and molecular mechanisms. TCMs with 
hypouricemic activity, which specially target fructose-induced MetS, are 
highlighted. And new technologies and strategies (such as high-throughput assay 
and systems biology) in this field are further discussed. In summary, 
fructose-induced MetS is a multifactorial disorder with the underlying complex 
mechanisms. Current clinical and pre-clinical evidence supports the potential of 
TCMs in management of MetS. Additionally, TCMs may show some advantages against 
complex MetS as their holistic feature through multiple target actions. However, 
further work is needed to confirm the effectivity and safety of TCMs by 
high-standard clinical trials, clarify the molecular mechanisms, and develop new 
anti-MetS drugs by development and application of optimized and feasible 
strategies and methods.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.phrs.2018.02.020
PMID: 29471102 [Indexed for MEDLINE]