[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: biomaterial implant osseointegration titanium clin | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: biomaterial implant osseointegration titanium clinical]

56. Int J Nanomedicine. 2020 Nov 3;15:8583-8594. doi: 10.2147/IJN.S270311. 
eCollection 2020.

Enhanced Osseointegration of Titanium Implants by Surface Modification with 
Silicon-doped Titania Nanotubes.

Zhao X(#)(1), You L(#)(1), Wang T(1), Zhang X(1), Li Z(2), Ding L(2), Li J(2), 
Xiao C(2), Han F(2), Li B(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopedics, The Affiliated Hospital of Jiangnan University, 
Wuxi, Jiangsu 214062, People's Republic of China.
(2)Departments of Orthopaedic Surgery and Stomatology, The First Affiliated 
Hospital, Orthopaedic Institute, Soochow University, Suzhou, Jiangsu 215006, 
People's Republic of China.
(#)Contributed equally

INTRODUCTION: Despite great progress made in developing orthopedic implants, the 
development of titanium (Ti) implants with ideal early osseointegration remains 
a big challenge. Our pilot study has demonstrated that Si-TiO2 nanotubes on the 
surface of Ti substrates could enhance their osteogenic activity. Hence, in this 
study, we aim to comprehensively evaluate the effects of silicon-doped titania 
(Si-TiO2) nanotubes on the osseointegration property of Ti implants.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The Ti implants were surface modified with Si-TiO2 
nanotubes through in situ anodization and Si plasma immersion ion implantation 
(PIII) method. Three groups were divided as Ti implants (Ti), Ti modified with 
TiO2 nanotubes (TiO2-NTs) and Ti modified with Si-TiO2 nanotubes (Si-TiO2-NTs). 
The morphology of Si-TiO2 nanotubes was observed by scanning electron 
microscope. The growth and osteogenic differentiation of MC3T3-E1 cells on the 
Ti implants were evaluated. Further, the pull-out tests and in vivo 
osseointegration ability evaluation were performed after implanting the screws 
in the femur of Sprague Dawley rats.
RESULTS: The Si-TiO2 nanotubes could be seen on the surface of Ti implants. The 
MC3T3-E1 cells could grow on the surface of Ti, TiO2-NTs and Si-TiO2-NTs, and 
showed fast proliferation rate on the Si-TiO2-NTs. Moreover, the production of 
some osteogenesis-related proteins (ALP and Runx2) at one week and calcium 
deposition at four week was also enhanced in Si-TiO2-NTs rather than other 
groups. In vivo osseointegration results showed that Si-TiO2 nanotube-modified 
Ti screws had higher pullout force at two and four weeks as well as enhanced new 
bone formation at six weeks compared to bare Ti screws and Ti screws modified 
with TiO2 nanotubes alone.
DISCUSSION: The modification of Si-TiO2-NTs on the Ti substrate could generate a 
nanostructured and hydrophilic surface, which can promote cell growth. Moreover, 
the existence of the TiO2 nanotubes and Si element also can improve the in vitro 
osteogenic differentiation of MC3T3-E1 cells and early bone formation around the 
implanted screws. Together, findings from this study show that surface 
modification of Ti implants with Si-TiO2 nanotubes could enhance early 
osseointegration and therefore has the potential for clinical applications.

© 2020 Zhao et al.

DOI: 10.2147/IJN.S270311
PMCID: PMC7648569
PMID: 33173295 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors report no conflicts of interest in 
this work.