[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS neurology | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS neurology]

24. Biol Psychiatry. 2021 Nov 15;90(10):689-700. doi: 
10.1016/j.biopsych.2020.05.033. Epub 2020 Jun 7.

Using Brain Imaging to Improve Spatial Targeting of Transcranial Magnetic 
Stimulation for Depression.

Cash RFH(1), Weigand A(2), Zalesky A(3), Siddiqi SH(4), Downar J(5), Fitzgerald 
PB(6), Fox MD(7).

Author information:
(1)Melbourne Neuropsychiatry Centre, University of Melbourne, Parkville, 
Victoria, Australia; Department of Biomedical Engineering, University of 
Melbourne, Parkville, Victoria, Australia. Electronic address: 
robin.cash@unimelb.edu.au.
(2)Berenson-Allen Center for Noninvasive Brain Stimulation, Department of 
Neurology, Harvard Medical School and Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, 
Boston, Massachusetts; Berlin School of Mind and Brain, Humboldt-Universität zu 
Berlin, Berlin, Germany.
(3)Melbourne Neuropsychiatry Centre, University of Melbourne, Parkville, 
Victoria, Australia; Department of Biomedical Engineering, University of 
Melbourne, Parkville, Victoria, Australia.
(4)Berenson-Allen Center for Noninvasive Brain Stimulation, Department of 
Neurology, Harvard Medical School and Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, 
Boston, Massachusetts; Department of Psychiatry, Harvard Medical School, Boston, 
Massachusetts; Division of Neurotherapeutics, McLean Hospital, Belmont, 
Massachusetts.
(5)Institute of Medical Science, Faculty of Medicine, University of Toronto, 
Toronto, Ontario, Canada; Department of Psychiatry, Faculty of Medicine, 
University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(6)Epworth Centre for Innovation and Mental Health, Epworth Healthcare and 
Monash University Central Clinical School, Camberwell, Victoria, Australia.
(7)Berenson-Allen Center for Noninvasive Brain Stimulation, Department of 
Neurology, Harvard Medical School and Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, 
Boston, Massachusetts; Departments of Neurology and Radiology, Martinos Center 
for Biomedical Imaging, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts; 
Departments of Neurology, Psychiatry, and Radiology, Center for Brain Circuit 
Therapeutics, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts. Electronic 
address: foxmdphd@gmail.com.

Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) is an effective treatment for depression 
but is limited in that the optimal therapeutic target remains unknown. Early TMS 
trials lacked a focal target and thus positioned the TMS coil over the 
prefrontal cortex using scalp measurements. Over time, it became clear that this 
method leads to variation in the stimulation site and that this could contribute 
to heterogeneity in antidepressant response. Newer methods allow for precise 
positioning of the TMS coil over a specific brain location, but leveraging these 
precise methods requires a more precise therapeutic target. We review how 
neuroimaging is being used to identify a more focal therapeutic target for 
depression. We highlight recent studies showing that more effective TMS targets 
in the frontal cortex are functionally connected to deep limbic regions such as 
the subgenual cingulate cortex. We review how connectivity might be used to 
identify an optimal TMS target for use in all patients and potentially even a 
personalized target for each individual patient. We address the clinical 
implications of this emerging field and highlight critical questions for future 
research.

Copyright © 2020. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biopsych.2020.05.033
PMID: 32800379 [Indexed for MEDLINE]