[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: Northwestern Health Sciences University | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Northwestern Health Sciences University — Overview

are accredited by the Accreditation Commission for Acupuncture and Chinese Medicine. The Doctor of Chiropractic program offered by the university is accredited by the Commission for Accreditation of the Council on Chiropractic education. The full-time day program consists of more than 4,300 credit hours over 10 trimesters. The students may also complete a Bachelor of Science degree in human biology while enrolled in the chiropractic program. Campus 

Northwestern Health Sciences University is located on a  campus in suburban Bloomington. The  main building was formerly a junior high school, but has since been renovated to accommodate the university containing laboratories, lecture halls, classrooms, a library, a bookstore, three public clinics, an auditorium, a cafeteria, a gymnasium, a research center, and a swimming pool. Construction projects include the addition of the Wolfe-Harris Center for Clinical Studies and the Greenawalt Library. The university is currently constructing a  new academic facility called the Wolfe-Harris Center for Excellence. Founded on June 2, 1941, with just three students, Northwestern College of Chiropractic was first housed on the sixth floor of the W. T. Grant Department Store on Nicollet Avenue in downtown Minneapolis. The college quickly outgrew the space and relocated in 1949 to 2222 Park Ave. in Minneapolis. In 1974 Northwestern moved to a former Catholic grade school at 1834 Mississippi Blvd. in St. Paul. Over the next decade, the college continued to grow. By 1983 it had reached capacity and a new building was needed. Thanks to a $500,000 donation from Dan Gainey, a grateful chiropractic patient and owner of Jostens Inc., the college moved to its current site in Bloomington. Students 

Currently 941 students are taking classes at Northwestern. The chiropractic program has 683 students; the acupuncture and Chinese medicine program has 112, and the massage therapy program 64 students. Fifty-two percent of students on campus are female. In the acupuncture and Chinese medicine program, 78 percent of students are female; in the chiropractic program, 45 percent, and in the massage therapy program, 88 percent. Nine percent of students on campus are a minority or non-resident alien. In the acupuncture and Chinese medicine program, 9 percent of students are a minority or non-resident alien; in the chiropractic program, 7.7 percent, and in the massage therapy program, 9 percent. Currently 56 percent of students are from Minnesota. Other states with a significant number of students attending Northwestern include Wisconsin (13 percent), North Dakota (7.5 percent), South Dakota (5.6 percent), and Iowa (3 percent). A total of 27 states are represented at Northwestern. The average age of chiropractic students is 25.88. The average age for acupuncture and Chinese medicine students is 31.69. The average age for massage therapy students is 27.54. Student activities 

Northwestern Health Sciences University has numerous student clubs and organizations, which comprise groups of students who share a common interest, either social or professional. The organizations reflect a wide range of interests, including an array of professional, political, social and recreational groups. Included among these many organizations are networks for international students and women students, opportunities for public speaking and engagement in public affairs, as well as the study of chiropractic methods and philosophy. These organizations provide ready opportunities for participation in these and other special interests, and for personal and professional growth. The university also provides and sponsors extracurricular clubs and activities throughout the year including aerobics, baseball, basketball, soccer, mountain biking, skiing, and martial arts. Research 

Northwestern Health Sciences University's Wolfe-Harris Center for Clinical Studies, located on the Bloomington campus, houses a natural health care research center. The center's two newest studies, focusing on back-related leg pain and integrative care for low back pain, pushed the university over the $7 million mark in total funding from federal agencies over the institutions entire history (since 1941). In addition, Northwestern Health Sciences University's research efforts are now being expanded to the other academic programs on campus. A limited study was conducted in 2006 in the teaching clinic of the College of Acupuncture and Chinese Medicine, and the Center recently completed a pilot study of massage therapy for tension headaches. See also

 List of colleges and universities in Minnesota
 Higher education in Minnesota

References

External links 
Official website

Buildings and structures in Bloomington, Minnesota
Chiropractic schools in the United States
Universities and colleges established in 1941
Massage therapy
Universities and colleges in Bloomington, Minnesota
1941 establishments in Minnesota
Private universities and colleges in Minnesota