[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: The Herbalist — Meyer | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# The Herbalist — Meyer — Overview

and Fogg. The law, as we are told in one of George Eliot's books, is a kind of cock-fight, in which it is the business of injured honesty to get a game bird with the best pluck and the strongest spurs; and I venture to think that the combined pluck of Buzfuz and Skimpin by far outweighed any of that commodity possessed by Snubbin and Phunky. No wonder Mr. Pickwick lost
his case; but his case never recovered the effect of the speech which I
now propose to read to you. Serjeant Buzfuz began by saying that never, in the whole course of his
   professional experience--never, from the very first moment of his
   applying himself to the study and practice of the law--had he
   approached a case with feelings of such deep emotion, or with such a
   heavy sense of the responsibility imposed upon him--a responsibility,
   he would say, which he could never have supported, were he not buoyed
   up and sustained by a conviction so strong, that it amounted to
   positive certainty that the cause of truth and justice, or, in other
   words, the cause of his much injured and most oppressed client, must
   prevail with the high-minded and intelligent dozen of men whom he now
   saw in that box before him. Counsel usually begin in this way, because it puts the jury on the
   very best terms with themselves, and makes them think what sharp
   fellows they must be. A visible effect was produced immediately;
   several jurymen beginning to take voluminous notes with the utmost
   eagerness. "You have heard from my learned friend, gentlemen," continued Serjeant
   Buzfuz--well knowing that, from the learned friend alluded to, the
   gentlemen of the jury had heard just nothing at all--"you have heard
   from my learned friend, gentlemen, that this is an action for breach
   of promise of marriage, in which the damages are laid at 1,500 pounds. But you have not heard from my learned friend, inasmuch as it did not
   come within my learned friend's province to tell you, what are the
   facts and circumstances of the case. Those facts and circumstances,
   gentlemen, you shall hear detailed by me, and proved by the
   unimpeachable female whom I will place in that box before you."

   Here Mr. Serjeant Buzfuz, with a tremendous emphasis on the word
   "box," smote his table with a mighty sound, and glanced at Dodson and
   Fogg, who nodded admiration to the Serjeant, and indignant defiance of
   the defendant. "The plaintiff, gentlemen," continued Serjeant Buzfuz, in a soft and
   melancholy voice, "the plaintiff is a widow; yes, gentlemen, a widow. The late Mr. Bardell, after enjoying, for many years, the esteem and
   confidence of his sovereign, as one of the guardians of his royal
   revenues, glided almost imperceptibly from the world, to seek
   elsewhere for that repose and peace which a custom house can never
   afford."

   At this pathetic description of the decease of Mr. Bardell, who had
   been knocked on the head with a quart pot in a public-house cellar,
   the learned Serjeant's voice faltered, and he proceeded with emotion,--

   "Some time before his death he had stamped his likeness upon a little
   boy. With this little boy, the only pledge of her departed exciseman,
   Mrs. Bardell shrunk from the world, and courted the retirement and
   tranquillity of Goswell Street; and here she placed in her front
   parlour-window a written placard, bearing this inscription--'Apartments
   furnished for a single gentleman. Inquire within.'"  Here Serjeant
   Buzfuz paused, while several gentlemen of the jury took a note of the
   document. "There is no date to that, is there?" inquired a juror. "There is no date, gentlemen," replied Serjeant Buzfuz; "but I am
   instructed to say that it was put in the plaintiff's parlour-window
   just this time three years. I entreat the attention of the jury to
   the wording of this document. 'Apartments furnished for a single
   gentleman!'  Mrs. Bardell's opinions of the opposite sex, gentlemen,
   were derived from a long contemplation of the inestimable qualities of
   her lost husband. She had no fear, she had no distrust, she had no
   suspicion, all was confidence and reliance. 'Mr. Bardell,' said the
   widow, 'Mr. Bardell was a man of honour, Mr. Bardell was a man of his
   word, Mr. Bardell was no deceiver, Mr. Bardell was once a single
   gentleman himself; _to_ single gentlemen I look for protection, for
   assistance, for comfort, and for consolation; _in_ single gentlemen I
   shall perpetually see something to remind me of what Mr. Bardell was
   when he first won my young and untried affections: to a single
   gentleman, then, shall my lodgings be let.'  Actuated by this
   beautiful and touching impulse (among the best impulses of our
   imperfect nature, gentlemen) the lonely and desolate widow dried her
   tears, furnished her first floor, caught the innocent boy to her
   maternal bosom, and put the bill up in her parlour-window.