[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: natural product antibiotic drug discovery | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: natural product antibiotic drug discovery]

88. Biochem J. 2024 Jul 3;481(13):839-864. doi: 10.1042/BCJ20220062.

Integrating bacterial molecular genetics with chemical biology for renewed 
antibacterial drug discovery.

Parkhill SL(1)(2), Johnson EO(1)(2)(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Systems Chemical Biology of Infection and Resistance Laboratory, The Francis 
Crick Institute, London, U.K.
(2)Faculty of Life Sciences, University College London, London, U.K.
(3)Department of Chemistry, Imperial College, London, U.K.
(4)Department of Chemistry, King's College London, London, U.K.

The application of dyes to understanding the aetiology of infection inspired 
antimicrobial chemotherapy and the first wave of antibacterial drugs. The second 
wave of antibacterial drug discovery was driven by rapid discovery of natural 
products, now making up 69% of current antibacterial drugs. But now with the 
most prevalent natural products already discovered, ∼107 new soil-dwelling 
bacterial species must be screened to discover one new class of natural product. 
Therefore, instead of a third wave of antibacterial drug discovery, there is now 
a discovery bottleneck. Unlike natural products which are curated by billions of 
years of microbial antagonism, the vast synthetic chemical space still requires 
artificial curation through the therapeutics science of antibacterial drugs - a 
systematic understanding of how small molecules interact with bacterial 
physiology, effect desired phenotypes, and benefit the host. Bacterial molecular 
genetics can elucidate pathogen biology relevant to therapeutics development, 
but it can also be applied directly to understanding mechanisms and liabilities 
of new chemical agents with new mechanisms of action. Therefore, the next phase 
of antibacterial drug discovery could be enabled by integrating chemical 
expertise with systematic dissection of bacterial infection biology. Facing the 
ambitious endeavour to find new molecules from nature or new-to-nature which 
cure bacterial infections, the capabilities furnished by modern chemical biology 
and molecular genetics can be applied to prospecting for chemical modulators of 
new targets which circumvent prevalent resistance mechanisms.

© 2024 The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1042/BCJ20220062
PMCID: PMC11346456
PMID: 38958473 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that there are no competing 
interests associated with the manuscript.