[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: phytotherapy systematic review clinical evidence | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: phytotherapy systematic review clinical evidence]

30. Eur Neuropsychopharmacol. 2024 May;82:6-28. doi: 
10.1016/j.euroneuro.2024.01.008. Epub 2024 Feb 14.

Does valerian work for insomnia? An umbrella review of the evidence.

Valente V(1), Machado D(1), Jorge S(1), Drake CL(2), Marques DR(3).

Author information:
(1)University of Aveiro, Department of Education and Psychology, Campus 
Universitário de Santiago, 3810-193 Aveiro, Portugal.
(2)Sleep Disorders and Research Center, Henry Ford Hospital, Detroit, MI 48202, 
USA.
(3)University of Aveiro, Department of Education and Psychology, Campus 
Universitário de Santiago, 3810-193 Aveiro, Portugal; CINEICC - Center for 
Research in Neuropsychology and Cognitive Behavioral Intervention, Faculty of 
Psychology and Educational Sciences, University of Coimbra, Portugal. Electronic 
address: drmarques@ua.pt.

Valerian is one of the most used herbal agents (phytotherapeutics) to manage 
sleep disturbances, in particular, sleep-onset difficulties in young adults. 
However, the evidence based on primary studies and systematic reviews that 
supports its use in this domain is weak or inconclusive. In the current study, 
an umbrella review was performed on the efficacy of valerian for sleep 
disturbances with a focus on insomnia. As such, only systematic reviews (with or 
without meta-analysis) were considered for this study. Systematic searches in 
PubMed, Web of Science, Scopus, Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews, 
PROSPERO and CNKI databases retrieved 70 records. Only 8 articles were 
considered eligible for qualitative analysis. Overall, data suggested that 
valerian has a good safety profile, however, the results showed no evidence of 
efficacy for the treatment of insomnia. Moreover, valerian appears to be 
effective concerning subjective improvement of sleep quality, although its 
effectiveness has not been demonstrated with quantitative or objective 
measurements. Despite its widespread use and prescription by general 
practitioners, psychiatrists and other professionals, valerian does not have 
empirical support for insomnia. Further studies, in particular high quality 
randomized controlled trials, are highly recommended since there are scarce 
studies and the existing ones are quite heterogeneous and with low 
methodological quality. The implications of our findings for clinical practice 
are critically discussed.

Copyright © 2024 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.euroneuro.2024.01.008
PMID: 38359657 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest None.