[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: biomaterial implant osseointegration titanium clin | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: biomaterial implant osseointegration titanium clinical]

84. Clin Implant Dent Relat Res. 2016 Feb;18(1):192-203. doi: 10.1111/cid.12274. 
Epub 2014 Sep 25.

Foreign Body Reaction to Biomaterials: On Mechanisms for Buildup and Breakdown 
of Osseointegration.

Trindade R(1), Albrektsson T(1)(2), Tengvall P(2), Wennerberg A(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Prosthodontics, Faculty of Odontology, Malmö University, Malmö, 
Sweden.
(2)Department of Biomaterials, Institute of Clinical Sciences, Göteborg 
University, Göteborg, Sweden.
(3)Head of Department of Prosthodontics, Faculty of Odontology, Malmö 
University, Malmö, Sweden.

BACKGROUND: The last few decades have seen a progressive shift in paradigm, 
replacing the notion of body implants as inert biomaterials for that of 
immune-modulating interactions with the host.
PURPOSE: This text represents an attempt at understanding the current knowledge 
on the healing mechanisms controlling implant-host interactions, thus 
interpreting osseointegration and the peri-implant bone loss phenomena also from 
an immunological point of view.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A narrative review approach was taken in the development 
of this article.
RESULTS: Osseointegration, actually representing a foreign body reaction (FBR) 
to biomaterials, is an immune-modulated, multifactorial, and complex healing 
process where a number of cells and mediators are involved. The buildup of 
osseointegration seems to be an immunologically and inflammatory-driven process, 
with the ultimate end to shield off the foreign material placed in the body, 
triggered by surface protein adsorption, complement activation, and buildup of a 
fibrin matrix, followed by recruitment of granulocytes, mesenchymal stem cells, 
and monocytes/macrophages, with the latter largely controlling the longer term 
response, further fusing into foreign body giant cells (FBGC), while bone cells 
make and remodel hydroxyl apatite. The above sequence results in the FBR that we 
call osseointegration and use for clinical purposes. However, the long-term 
clinical function is dependent on a foreign body equilibrium, that if disturbed 
may lead to impaired clinical function of the implant, through a breakdown 
process where macrophages are again activated and may further fuse into FBGCs, 
now seen in much greater numbers, resulting in the start of bone resorption - 
due to cells such as osteoclasts with different origins and possibly even 
macrophages degrading more bone than what is formed via osteoblastic activity - 
and rupture of mucosal seals, through complex mechanisms in need of further 
understanding. Infection may follow as a secondary event, further complicating 
the clinical scenario. Implant failure may ensue.
CONCLUSIONS: Dentistry is still to embrace the concept of the biomaterials' 
healing- and immune-modulating effect when in contact with body tissues. The 
presented knowledge has the potential to open the door for a different 
interpretation of past, current, and future observations in dental implant 
science. From a clinical standpoint, it seems recommendable to react as rapidly 
as possible when facing peri-implant bone loss, trying to reestablish a foreign 
body equilibrium if with some bone resorption.

© 2014 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1111/cid.12274
PMID: 25257971 [Indexed for MEDLINE]