[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: herbal medicine drug interaction pharmacokinetics | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: herbal medicine drug interaction pharmacokinetics]

54. Ther Drug Monit. 2023 Feb 1;45(1):35-44. doi: 10.1097/FTD.0000000000001069.

Utility of Therapeutic Drug Monitoring in Identifying Clinically Significant 
Interactions Between St. John's Wort and Prescription Drugs.

Steenkamp V(1), Parkar H(1), Dasgupta A(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Faculty of Health Sciences, University of 
Pretoria, Pretoria, South Africa; and.
(2)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, University of Kansas Medical 
Center, Kansas City, Kansas.

BACKGROUND: The general population widely uses herbal medicines, as they are 
regarded as effective and safe. St. John's wort, which is an effective herbal 
antidepressant, exhibits both pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic interactions 
with several drugs. The aim of this review was to highlight the clinically 
significant interactions of St. John's wort with drugs that require to be 
monitored to assess their therapeutic effect.
METHODS: Published literature was searched using electronic databases, such as 
MEDLINE, PubMed, and Elsevier ScienceDirect using terms such as "herbal 
medicine," "herbal toxicity," "legislation herbal medicine," "drug-herb 
interactions," "St. John's wort," and "St. John's wort-drug interactions." 
Searches were limited to the English language, and there was no restriction on 
the date of publication.
RESULTS: St. John's wort exhibits a number of pharmacokinetic and 
pharmacodynamic interactions with drugs. The most dangerous interactions 
occurred when used concurrently with the immunosuppressants, cyclosporine, and 
tacrolimus (treatment failure or organ rejection) or warfarin (treatment failure 
resulting in thromboembolic events) or antiretroviral agents (treatment failure 
and the emergence of new viral variants that are resistant to conventional 
drugs).
CONCLUSIONS: Patients should consult their health care providers before 
consuming herbal supplements, especially St. John's wort, to avoid potentially 
dangerous drug-herb interactions.

Copyright © 2023 Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1097/FTD.0000000000001069
PMID: 36624575 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.