[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: magnetic resonance spectroscopy metabolite brain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: magnetic resonance spectroscopy metabolite brain]

36. Transl Psychiatry. 2016 Aug 30;6(8):e877. doi: 10.1038/tp.2016.140.

Whole-brain patterns of (1)H-magnetic resonance spectroscopy imaging in 
Alzheimer's disease and dementia with Lewy bodies.

Su L(1), Blamire AM(2), Watson R(3), He J(4), Hayes L(1), O'Brien JT(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, School of Clinical Medicine, University of 
Cambridge, Cambridge, UK.
(2)Institute of Cellular Medicine, Newcastle Magnetic Resonance Centre, 
Newcastle University, Newcastle upon Tyne, UK.
(3)Department of Aged Care, Royal Melbourne Hospital, Parkville, VIC, Australia.
(4)Aberdeen Biomedical Imaging Centre, Aberdeen University, Aberdeen, UK.

Magnetic resonance spectroscopy has demonstrated metabolite changes in 
neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer's disease (AD) and dementia with 
Lewy bodies (DLB); however, their pattern and relationship to clinical symptoms 
is unclear. To determine whether the spatial patterns of brain-metabolite 
changes in AD and DLB are regional or diffused, and to examine whether the key 
metabolite levels are associated with cognitive and non-cognitive symptoms, we 
acquired whole-brain spatially resolved 3T magnetic resonance spectroscopic 
imaging (MRSI) data from subjects with AD (N=36), DLB (N=35) and similarly aged 
controls (N=35). Voxel-wise measurement of N-acetylaspartate to creatine 
(NAA/Cr), choline to Cr (Cho/Cr), myo-inositol to Cr (mI/Cr) as well as 
glutamate and glutamine to Cr (Glx/Cr) ratios were determined using MRSI. 
Compared with controls, AD and DLB groups showed a significant decrease in most 
brain metabolites, with NAA/Cr, Cho/Cr and mI/Cr levels being reduced in 
posterior cingulate, thalamus, frontotemporal areas and basal ganglia. The 
Glx/Cr level was more widely decreased in DLB (posterior cingulate, hippocampus, 
temporal regions and caudate) than in AD (only in posterior cingulate). DLB was 
also associated with increased levels of Cho/Cr, NAA/Cr and mI/Cr in occipital 
regions. Changes in metabolism in the brain were correlated with cognitive and 
non-cognitive symptoms in the DLB but not in the AD group. The different 
patterns between AD and DLB may have implications for improving diagnosis, 
better understanding disease-specific neurobiology and targeting therapeutics. 
In addition, the study raised important questions about the role of occipital 
neuroinflammation and glial activation as well as the glutamatergic treatment in 
DLB.

DOI: 10.1038/tp.2016.140
PMCID: PMC5022086
PMID: 27576166 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: JTO has been a consultant for GE Healthcare, 
Servier and Bayer Healthcare, and has received honoraria for talks from Pfizer, 
GE Healthcare, Eisai, Shire, Lundbeck, Lilly and Novartis. The remaining authors 
declare no conflict of interest.