[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: pharmacognosy medicinal plant active compound isol | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: pharmacognosy medicinal plant active compound isolation]

76. Pharm Biol. 2021 Dec;59(1):955-963. doi: 10.1080/13880209.2021.1950776.

Pseudocedrela kotschyi: a review of ethnomedicinal uses, pharmacology and 
phytochemistry.

Alhassan AM(1), Ahmed QU(2), Malami I(3), Zakaria ZA(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical and Medicinal Chemistry, Faculty of 
Pharmaceutical Sciences, Usmanu Danfodiyo University, Sokoto, Nigeria.
(2)Pharmacognosy Research Group, Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, 
Kulliyyah of Pharmacy, International Islamic University Malaysia, Kuantan, 
Malaysia.
(3)Department of Pharmacognosy and Ethnopharmacy, Faculty of Pharmaceutical 
Sciences, Usmanu Danfodiyo University, Sokoto, Nigeria.
(4)Department of Biomedical Science, Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences, 
Universiti Putra Malaysia, Serdang, Malaysia.
(5)Laboratory of Halal Science Research, Halal Products Research Institute, 
Universiti Putra Malaysia, Serdang, Malaysia.

CONTEXT: Pseudocedrela kotschyi (Schweinf) Harms (Meliaceae) is an important 
medicinal plant found in tropical and subtropical countries of Africa. 
Traditionally, P. kotschyi is used in the treatment of various diseases 
including diabetes, malaria, abdominal pain and diarrhoea.
OBJECTIVE: To provide an overview of traditional medicinal claims, 
pharmacological properties, and phytochemical principles of P. kotschyi as a 
basis for its clinical applications and further research and development of new 
drugs.
METHODS: Through interpreting already published scientific manuscripts retrieved 
from different scientific search engines, namely, Medline, PubMed, EMBASE, 
Science Direct and Google scholar databases, an up-to-date review on the 
medicinal potentials of P. kotschyi from inception until September, 2020 was 
compiled. 'Pseudocedrela kotschyi', 'traditional uses', 'pharmacological 
properties' and 'chemical constituents' were used as search words.
RESULTS: At present, more than 30 chemical constituents have been isolated and 
identified from the root and stem bark of P. kotschyi, among which limonoids and 
triterpenes are the main active constituents. Based on prior research, P. 
kotschyi has been reported to possess anti-inflammatory, analgesic, antipyretic, 
anthelminthic, antimalaria, anti-leishmaniasis, anti-trypanosomiasis, 
hepatoprotective, antioxidant, antidiabetic, antidiarrheal, antimicrobial, and 
anticancer effects.
CONCLUSIONS: P. kotschyi is reported to be effective in treating a variety of 
diseases. Current phytochemical and pharmacological studies mainly focus on 
antimalaria, anti-leishmaniasis, anti-trypanosomiasis and anticancer potential 
of the root and stem bark of P. kotschyi. Although experimental data support the 
beneficial medicinal properties of this plant, there is still a paucity of 
information on its toxicity profile. Nonetheless, this review provides the basis 
for future research work.

DOI: 10.1080/13880209.2021.1950776
PMCID: PMC8293955
PMID: 34283002 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: No potential conflict of interest was reported 
by the author(s).