[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: MRI physics image quality artifact reduction | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: MRI physics image quality artifact reduction]

99. J Magn Reson. 2006 Dec;183(2):278-89. doi: 10.1016/j.jmr.2006.09.002. Epub
2006  Sep 29.

Combined passive and active shimming for in vivo MR spectroscopy at high 
magnetic fields.

Juchem C(1), Muller-Bierl B, Schick F, Logothetis NK, Pfeuffer J.

Author information:
(1)Max-Planck Institute for Biological Cybernetics, Department of Physiology of 
Cognitive Processes, Spemannstrasse 38, 72076 Tübingen, Germany. 
christoph.juchem@tuebingen.mpg.de

The use of high magnetic fields increases the sensitivity and spectral 
dispersion in magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) of brain metabolites. 
Practical limitations arise, however, from susceptibility-induced field 
distortions, which are increased at higher magnetic field strengths. Solutions 
to this problem include optimized shimming, provided that active, i.e., 
electronic, shimming can operate over a sufficient range. To meet our shim 
requirements, which were an order of magnitude greater than the active shim 
capacity of our 7T MR system, we developed a combined passive and active shim 
approach. Simple geometries of ferromagnetic shim elements were derived and 
numerically optimized to generate a complete set of second-order spherical 
harmonic shim functions in a modular manner. The major goals of the shim design 
were maximization of shim field accuracy and ease of practical implementation. 
The theoretically optimized ferro-shim geometries were mounted on a cylindrical 
surface and placed inside the magnet bore, surrounding the subject's head and 
the RF coil. Passive shimming generated very strong shim fields and eliminated 
the worst of the field distortions, after which the field was further optimized 
by flexible and highly accurate active shimming. Here, the passive-shimming 
procedure was first evaluated theoretically, then applied in phantom studies and 
subsequently validated for in vivo 1H MRS in the macaque visual cortex. No 
artifacts due to the passive shim setup were observed; adjustments were 
reproducible between sessions. The modularity and the reduction to two pieces 
per shim term in this study is an important simplification that makes the method 
applicable also for passive shimming within single sessions. The feasibility of 
very strong, flexible and high-quality shimming via a combined approach of 
passive and active shimming is of great practical relevance for MR imaging and 
spectroscopy at high field strengths where shim power is limited or where 
shimming of specific anatomical regions inherently requires strong shim fields.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jmr.2006.09.002
PMID: 17011219 [Indexed for MEDLINE]