[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: pharmacognosy medicinal plant active compound isol | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: pharmacognosy medicinal plant active compound isolation]

40. J Ethnopharmacol. 2015 Dec 24;176:429-37. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2015.11.030.
Epub  2015 Nov 18.

Medicinal plants from Mali: Chemistry and biology.

Wangensteen H(1), Diallo D(2), Paulsen BS(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Pharmacy, Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, division 
Pharmacognosy, University of Oslo, Oslo, Norway. Electronic address: 
helle.wangensteen@farmasi.uio.no.
(2)Department of Traditional Medicine, Bamako, Mali. Electronic address: 
dri.diallo@yahoo.fr.
(3)School of Pharmacy, Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, division 
Pharmacognosy, University of Oslo, Oslo, Norway. Electronic address: 
b.s.paulsen@farmasi.uio.no.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Mali is one of the countries in West Africa 
where the health system rely the most on traditional medicine. The healers are 
mainly using medicinal plants for their treatments. The studies performed being 
the basis for this review is of importance as they will contribute to sustaining 
the traditional knowledge. They contribute to evaluate and improve locally 
produced herbal remedies, and the review gives also an overview of the plant 
preparations that will have the most potential to be evaluated for new Improved 
Traditional Medicines.
AIM OF THE REVIEW: The aim of this review is to give an overview of the studies 
performed related to medicinal plants from Mali in the period 1995-2015. These 
studies include ethnopharmacology, chemistry and biological studies of the 
plants that were chosen based on our interviews with the healers in different 
regions of Mali, and contribute to sustainable knowledge on the medicinal 
plants. The Department of Traditional Medicine, Bamako, Mali, is responsible for 
registering the knowledge of the traditional healers on their use of medicinal 
plants and also identifying compounds in the plants responsible for the 
bioactivities claimed. The studies reported aimed at getting information from 
the healers on the use of medicinal plants, and study the biology and chemistry 
of selected plants for the purpose of verifying the traditional use of the 
plants. These studies should form the basis for necessary knowledge for the 
development of registered Improved Traditional Medicines in Mali.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The healers were the ethnopharmacological informants. 
Questions asked initially were related to wound healing. This was because the 
immune system is involved when wounds are healed, and additionally the immune 
system is involved in the majority of the illnesses common in Mali. Based on the 
results of the interviews the plant material for studies was selected. Studies 
were performed on the plant parts the healers were using when treating their 
patients. Conventional chromatographic and spectroscopic methods were used for 
the isolation and structural elucidation of compounds. The compounds to study 
were selected based on the bioassays performed concomitant with the 
fractionation.
RESULTS: Our results show that plants traditionally used as wound healing agents 
contain polysaccharides basically of pectin nature with immunomodulating 
activities. These pectins all have different and new structures. Several of the 
plants also contain compounds with effects related to antioxidant properties. 
These compounds are mainly of polyphenolic nature. Three of these are new 
compounds from Nature, while 32 was for the first time described from the plant 
they were isolated from. This review gives an overview of the most important 
results obtained during the 20 year long collaboration between Department of 
Traditional Medicine, Bamako, Mali, and Department of Pharmacognosy, School of 
Pharmacy, University of Oslo, Norway.
CONCLUSION: Our studies showed that ethnopharmacological information is 
important for the determination of screening and chemical methods to be used for 
studies of plants used in traditional medicine.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2015.11.030
PMID: 26596257 [Indexed for MEDLINE]