[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: Jamu | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Jamu — Overview

and the recipes often not written down, especially in remote areas of the country. Jamu was (and still) practiced as one of the spiritual requirements of the indigenous physicians (dukuns). However, it is generally prepared and prescribed by women, who sell it on the streets. Generally, the different jamu prescriptions are not written down but handed down between the generations. Some early handbooks, however, have survived. A jamu handbook that was used in households throughout the Dutch East Indies (present-day Indonesia) was published in 1911 by Mrs. Kloppenburg-Versteegh. One of the first European physicians to study jamu was Jacobus Bontius (Jacob de Bondt), who was a physician in Batavia (present-day Jakarta) in the early seventeenth century. His writings contain information about indigenous medicine of Java. A comprehensive book on indigenous herbal medicine in the Dutch East Indies (present-day Indonesia) was published by Rumphius, who worked in Ambon during early eighteenth century. He published a book called Herbaria Amboinesis (The Ambonese Spice Book). During the nineteenth century, European physicians had a keen interest in jamu, as they often did not know how to treat the diseases they encountered in their patients in the Dutch East Indies (present-day Indonesia). The German physician Carl Waitz published on jamu in 1829. In the 1880s and 1890s, A.G. Vorderman published extensive accounts on jamu as well. Pharmacological research on herbal medicine was undertaken by M. Greshoff and W.G. Boorsma at the pharmacological laboratory at the Bogor Botanical Garden

Popularity

Indonesian physicians were initially not very interested in jamu. During the second conference of the Indonesian Association of Physicians, held in Solo in March 1940, two presentations on the topic were given. During the Japanese occupation, Indonesia's Jamu Committee was formed in 1944. During the following decades, the popularity of jamu increased, although physicians had rather ambivalent opinions about it. Indonesia—home to highly diversified herbs products—expects domestic sales of herbal and traditional medicine, including food supplements and cosmetics, to expand by 15 percent by 2014 to Rp 15 trillion (US$1.23 billion) compared to 2013, due to its increasingly health-conscious middle-income bracket, according to the Indonesian Herbal and Traditional Medicine Association (Gabungan Pengusaha Jamu/GP Jamu). Jamu contributes Rp 3 trillion (US$73.29 million) to overall sales. Several Indonesian leading figures are known as the endorser of jamu herbal products, including former first lady Tien Soeharto, business figures Mooryati Soedibyo and Jaya Suprana, and President Joko Widodo. Joko admitted that he had consumed the herbal medicine, locally known as temulawak jahe (the mixture of ginger and curcuma) for 17 years which he believed has helped him in his daily activities as well as to repair the liver and digestive functions. Form
Jamu is often distributed in the form of powder, pills, capsules, and drinking liquid. Jamu shops, which sell only ingredients or prepare the jamu on spot as required by buyers, as well as women roaming the street to sell jamu, is a commonly seen way to distribute jamu in Indonesia. Nowadays, jamu is also mass manufactured and exported. There are often concerns as to quality, consistency, and cleanliness in not only the locally distributed but also manufactured forms. Quasi-health

There are a few quasi-health related uses for jamu, for example curiously promoted to enhance sexual pleasure, but also traditionally manage post childbirth trauma. There are kinds of jamu to increase sexual stamina for men, as well as others to tighten the vagina for women (with names like Sari Rapat ("Essence of Tightness"), Rapat Wangi ("Tight and Fragrant"), and even Empot Ayam ("Tight as a Chicken's Anus"). Some exported to far as Kenya under names Tongkat ajimat madura, or madura sticks. See also hee yum grass (thai herbalism). Herbs for jamu
There are hundreds of herbs for jamu prescriptions, some are:

Rhizomes:
Bengle (Zingiber brevifolium)
Jahe Ginger (Zingiber officinale)
Kencur Aromatic Galangal (Kaempferia galanga)
Kunyit Turmeric (Curcuma domestica)
Lempuyang (Zingiber zerumbet or Zingiber aromaticum)
Lengkuas or Laos Greater Galangal (Alpinia galanga)
Temulawak (Curcuma xanthorrhiza)
Leaves:
Brotowali or bratawali (Tinospora crispa or Tinospora tuberculata rumphii)
Sambang Darah (Excoecaria cochinchinensis or Excoecaria bicolor)
Secang (Caesalpinia sappan)
Seeds:
Adas (Foeniculum vulgare Mill)
Fruits:
Asam Jawa tamarind (Tamarindus indica)
Ceplukan Cutleaf groundcherry (Physalis angulata)
Jeruk Nipis Key lime (Citrus aurantifolia Swingle)
Nyamplung or kosambi (Calophyllum inophyllum)
Barks
Kayu Manis Cinnamon (Cinnamomum burmannii)
Flowers
Ilang-ilang Ylang ylang (Cananga odorata)
Melati Jasmine (Jasminum sambac)
Rumput Alang-alang (Gramineae)

Non-herbal elements of jamu
Non-herbal materials acquired from animals are also often used in jamu mixture.