[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: Gillian Rolton | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Gillian Rolton — Overview

She opened her own riding school, and between 2001 and 2007 she initiated, co-ordinated and coached the Mitsubishi National Young Rider Squad, that helped talented young eventing riders to make the transition to senior level. She also helped establish the National Interschools Program. She was a national selector until 2007, when she stood down in order to become an International Federation for Equestrian Sports (FEI) judge. She served on the grand jury at the 2012 London Olympics, and was President of the Grand Jury at the 2014 FEI World Equestrian Games. In 2015, Rolton was diagnosed with endometrial cancer. The doctors subsequently found metastatic cancer in her groin. Chemotherapy failed and she was informed that the disease was terminal. She was admitted to hospital in Adelaide in September 2017, and died in there on 18 November 2017. She was survived by her husband Greg. At the time of her death, she was Event Director of the Australian International Three Day Event held in Adelaide, a position that she had held for ten years. She had continued working on it from her hospital bed. Recognition
Rolton was awarded the Order of Australia Medal in the 1993 Australia Day honours "for service to sport as a gold medallist in the equestrian three-day event at the Olympic Games". In 2000, she was inducted into the Sport Australia Hall of Fame. She was inducted into South Australian Sport Hall of Fame in 2010, and in 2016 was elevated to legend status alongside Sir Donald Bradman, Bart Cummings, Barrie Robran and Victor Richardson. She was inducted into the Equestrian Australia Hall of Fame for her service to the sport in 2016. In 2017, she was  granted Adelaide's highest honour with the keys to the city. In January 2018, she was posthumously made a Member of the Order of Australia "For significant service to horse sports through roles with a range of national and international equestrian organisations". Notes

References

External links
 
 
 
 
 In Memoriam: FEI pays tribute to double Olympic gold medallist Gillian Rolton (AUS)

1956 births
2017 deaths
Australian female equestrians
Australian event riders
Olympic equestrians for Australia
Equestrians at the 1992 Summer Olympics
Equestrians at the 1996 Summer Olympics
Olympic gold medalists for Australia
Olympic medalists in equestrian
Recipients of the Medal of the Order of Australia
Recipients of the Australian Sports Medal
Sport Australia Hall of Fame inductees
Sportswomen from South Australia
Sportspeople from Adelaide
Medalists at the 1996 Summer Olympics
Medalists at the 1992 Summer Olympics
Deaths from endometrial cancer
Deaths from cancer in South Australia
Members of the Order of Australia