[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS neurology | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS neurology]

53. Brain Res Bull. 2019 May;148:1-9. doi: 10.1016/j.brainresbull.2019.03.001.
Epub  2019 Mar 9.

Transcranial magnetic stimulation in subjects with phantom pain and non-painful 
phantom sensations: A systematic review.

Nardone R(1), Versace V(2), Sebastianelli L(2), Brigo F(3), Christova M(4), 
Scarano GI(5), Saltuari L(6), Trinka E(7), Hauer L(8), Sellner J(9).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Franz Tappeiner Hospital, Merano, Italy; Department 
of Neurology, Christian Doppler Medical Center, Paracelsus Medical University, 
Salzburg, Austria. Electronic address: raffaele.nardone@asbmeran-o.it.
(2)Department of Neurorehabilitation, Hospital of Vipiteno, Italy.
(3)Department of Neurology, Franz Tappeiner Hospital, Merano, Italy; Department 
of Neuroscience, Biomedicine and Movement Science, University of Verona, Italy.
(4)Institute of Physiotherapy, University of Applied Sciences FH-Joanneum, Graz, 
Austria; Otto Loewi Research Center, Physiology Section, Medical University of 
Graz, Graz, Austria.
(5)Department of Psychology, Franz Tappeiner Hospital, Merano, Italy.
(6)Department of Neuroscience, Biomedicine and Movement Science, University of 
Verona, Italy; Department of Neurology, Hochzirl Hospital, Zirl, Austria.
(7)Department of Neurology, Christian Doppler Medical Center, Paracelsus Medical 
University, Salzburg, Austria; Centre for Cognitive Neurosciences Salzburg, 
Salzburg, Austria; University for Medical Informatics and Health Technology, 
UMIT, Hall in Tirol, Austria.
(8)Department of Psychiatry, Psychotherapy and Psychosomatic Medicine, Christian 
Doppler Medical Center, Salzburg, Austria.
(9)Department of Neurology, Christian Doppler Medical Center, Paracelsus Medical 
University, Salzburg, Austria; Department of Neurology, Klinikum rechts der 
Isar, Technische Universität München, Germany.

Several studies have applied transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) in the 
attempt to further explore the pathophysiological mechanisms of phantom-limb 
pain (PLP) and non-painful phantom sensations (PS). We performed a systematic 
review of available evidence of this emerging technology in this indication. We 
identified studies which report a reduced intracortical inhibition and increased 
intracortical facilitation in the hemisphere contralateral to the PLP. TMS 
mapping revealed a significant lateralization of the center of gravity and an 
enlargement of the excitable area on the hemisphere contralateral to the 
amputation. N-Methyl-d-Aspartate-mediated mechanisms influence the changes of 
intracortical inhibition and facilitation occurring after limb amputation; 
however, these cortical excitability changes and PLP are independent of each 
other. TMS can also influence brain function if applied repetitively. A few 
studies have begun to therapeutically use repetitive TMS (rTMS) to relief PLP 
and non-painful PS. rTMS of the contralateral parietal cortex lead to a 
transient reduction in pain intensity. High frequency rTMS applied over the 
contralateral motor cortex (M1) or low frequency rTMS over the unaffected 
hemisphere might also induce significant clinical improvement in PLP. On the 
other hand, serum beta-endorphin increased significantly after real stimulation 
over contralateral M1. This systematic review illustrates that TMS technique is 
an emerging tool to gain insights to pathophysiological aspects of pain and 
non-painful phantom phenomena. Moreover, TMS could support appropriate patient 
selection for different therapies and may also have therapeutic utility in 
subjects with PLP or PS, though the evidence is still very preliminary and 
well-designed studies in larger cohort of patients are warranted.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.brainresbull.2019.03.001
PMID: 30862485 [Indexed for MEDLINE]