[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS neurology | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS neurology]

18. Nat Rev Neurol. 2025 Dec;21(12):669-686. doi: 10.1038/s41582-025-01137-z.
Epub  2025 Sep 16.

Non-invasive brain stimulation: current and future applications in neurology.

Rektorová I(1)(2), Pupíková M(3), Fleury L(4)(5), Brabenec L(3), Hummel 
FC(4)(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Applied Neuroscience Research Group, Central European Institute of 
Technology, Masaryk University, Brno, Czech Republic. irena.rektorova@fnusa.cz.
(2)First Department of Neurology, Faculty of Medicine and St. Anne's University 
Hospital, Masaryk University, Brno, Czech Republic. irena.rektorova@fnusa.cz.
(3)Applied Neuroscience Research Group, Central European Institute of 
Technology, Masaryk University, Brno, Czech Republic.
(4)Defitech Chair of Clinical Neuroengineering, Neuro-X Institute (INX), Ecole 
Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne (EPFL), Geneva, Switzerland.
(5)Defitech Chair of Clinical Neuroengineering, INX, EPFL Valais, Clinique 
Romande de Réadaptation (CRR), Sion, Switzerland.
(6)Clinical Neuroscience, University of Geneva Medical School, Geneva, 
Switzerland.

Device-based non-invasive brain stimulation (NIBS) techniques show promise for 
the treatment of neurological and psychiatric disorders, although 
inconsistencies in protocol designs and study findings can make the field 
difficult to navigate. In this Review, we discuss applications of NIBS for 
enhancing cognitive and motor function in people with various neurological 
diseases that are characterized by disruption of large-scale brain networks, 
including neurodegenerative diseases and brain lesion disorders such as stroke 
and traumatic brain injury. In particular, we focus on repetitive transcranial 
magnetic stimulation and transcranial electrical stimulation, as these 
techniques have been widely used in clinical settings and randomized controlled 
trials. We summarize and synthesize current knowledge, and highlight gaps and 
shortcomings in the existing research that make it difficult to draw firm 
conclusions, including small sample sizes, heterogeneous patient populations and 
variations in stimulation protocols. We believe that a rapid evolution of NIBS 
techniques from state-dependent, network-informed, multifocal and subcortical 
paradigms to individualized electric field modelling and accelerated NIBS 
protocols will improve the management of neurological disorders. However, 
realizing this potential will require us to address crucial challenges and 
acquire deeper mechanistic insights, with the aim of developing adaptive, 
biomarker-driven protocols to optimize target engagement, dosing and timing for 
each patient.

© 2025. Springer Nature Limited.

DOI: 10.1038/s41582-025-01137-z
PMID: 40957931 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: The authors declare no 
competing interests.