[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: graphene biomedical applications toxicity review | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: graphene biomedical applications toxicity review]

97. J Mater Chem B. 2020 Sep 23;8(36):8116-8148. doi: 10.1039/d0tb01149e.

Functionalized graphene oxide as a vehicle for targeted drug delivery and 
bioimaging applications.

Karki N(1), Tiwari H(1), Tewari C(1), Rana A(1), Pandey N(1), Basak S(2), Sahoo 
NG(1).

Author information:
(1)Prof. Rajendra Singh Nanoscience and Nanotechnology Centre, Department of 
Chemistry, Kumaun University, D.S.B. Campus, Nainital, 263002, India. 
ngsahoo@yahoo.co.in.
(2)Dr. B.C. Roy College of Pharmacy & Allied Health Sciences, Durgapur, West 
Bengal 713206, India.

Graphene oxide (GO) has attracted tremendous attention as a most promising 
nanomaterial among the carbon family since it emerged as a polynomial functional 
tool with rational applications in diverse fields such as biomedical 
engineering, electrocatalysis, biosensing, energy conversion, and storage 
devices. Despite having certain limitations due to its irreversible aggregation 
performance owing largely to the strong van der Waals interactions, efforts have 
been made to smartly engineer its surface chemistry for realistic multimodal 
applications. The use of such GO-based engineered devices has increased rapidly 
in the last few years, principally due to its excellent properties, such as huge 
surface area, honeycomb-like structure allowing vacant interstitial space to 
accommodate compounds, sp2 hybridized carbon, improved biocompatibility and cell 
surface penetration due to electronic interactions. Amongst multifaceted GO 
dynamics, in this review, attempts are made to discuss the advanced applications 
of GO or graphene-based materials (GBNs) in the biomedical field involving drug 
or therapeutic gene delivery, dual drug or drug-gene combination targeting, 
special delivery of drug cocktails to the brain, stimuli-responsive release of 
molecular payloads, and Janus-structured smart applications for polar-nonpolar 
combination drug loading followed by targeting together with smart bioimaging 
approaches. In addition, the advantages of duel-drug delivery systems are 
discussed in detail. We also discuss various electronic mechanisms, and detailed 
surface engineering to meet microcosmic criteria for its utilization, various 
novel implementations of engineered GO as mentioned above, together with 
discussions of its inevitable toxicity or disadvantages. We hope that the target 
audience, belonging to biomedical engineering, pharmaceutical or material 
science fields, may acquire relevant information from this review which may help 
them design future studies in this field.

DOI: 10.1039/d0tb01149e
PMID: 32966535 [Indexed for MEDLINE]