[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: plant alkaloid biosynthesis pathway elucidation | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: plant alkaloid biosynthesis pathway elucidation]

15. Phytochemistry. 2015 Mar;111:7-13. doi: 10.1016/j.phytochem.2014.09.008. Epub
 2015 Jan 9.

Noscapine comes of age.

Chen X(1), Dang TT(1), Facchini PJ(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, University of Calgary, Alberta, Canada.
(2)Department of Biological Sciences, University of Calgary, Alberta, Canada. 
Electronic address: pfacchin@ucalgary.ca.

Noscapine is a phthalideisoquinoline alkaloid, which represents a class of plant 
specialized metabolites within the large and structurally diverse group of 
benzylisoquinoline alkaloids. Along with the narcotic analgesic morphine, 
noscapine is a major alkaloid in the latex of opium poppy (Papaver somniferum) 
that has long been used as a cough suppressant and has undergone extensive 
investigation as a potential anticancer drug. Cultivated opium poppy plants 
remain the only commercial source of noscapine. Despite its isolation from opium 
more than two centuries ago, the almost complete biosynthesis of noscapine has 
only recently been established based on an impressive combination of molecular 
genetics, functional genomics, and metabolic biochemistry. In this review, we 
provide a historical account of noscapine from its discovery through to initial 
investigations of its formation in opium poppy. We also describe recent 
breakthroughs that have led to an elucidation of the noscapine biosynthetic 
pathway, and we discuss the pharmacological properties that have prompted 
intensive evaluation of the potential pharmaceutical applications of noscapine 
and several semi-synthetic derivatives. Finally, we speculate on the future 
potential for the production of noscapine using metabolic engineering and 
synthetic biology in plants and microbes.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.phytochem.2014.09.008
PMID: 25583437 [Indexed for MEDLINE]