[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS neurology | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS neurology]

29. Semin Neurol. 2022 Apr;42(2):149-157. doi: 10.1055/s-0041-1742265. Epub 2022
Feb  25.

Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation for the Neurological Patient: Scientific 
Principles and Applications.

Eldaief MC(1)(2)(3)(4), Dickerson BC(2)(3), Camprodon JA(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard Medical 
School, Boston, Massachusetts.
(2)Department of Neurology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard Medical 
School, Boston, Massachusetts.
(3)Athinoula A. Martinos Center for Biomedical Imaging, Massachusetts General 
Hospital, Charlestown, Massachusetts.
(4)Department of Psychology, Center for Brain Science, Neuroimaging Facility, 
Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts.

Non-invasive brain stimulation has been increasingly recognized for its 
potential as an investigational, diagnostic and therapeutic tool across the 
clinical neurosciences. Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) is a 
non-invasive method of focal neuromodulation. Diagnostically, TMS can be used to 
probe cortical excitability and plasticity, as well as for functional mapping. 
Therapeutically, depending on the pattern employed, TMS can either facilitate or 
inhibit stimulated cortex potentially modulating maladaptive physiology through 
its effects on neuroplasticity. Despite this potential, applications of TMS in 
neurology have only been approved for diagnostic clinical neurophysiology, 
pre-surgical mapping of motor and language cortex, and the treatment of 
migraines. In this article, we discuss the principles of TMS and its clinical 
applications in neurology, including experimental applications in stroke 
rehabilitation, seizures, autism spectrum disorder, neurodegenerative disorders, 
movement disorders, tinnitus, chronic pain and functional neurological disorder. 
To promote increased cross-talk across neurology and psychiatry, we also 
succinctly review the TMS literature for the treatment of major depression and 
obsessive compulsive disorder. Overall, we argue that larger clinical trials 
that are better informed by circuit-level biomarkers and pathophysiological 
models will lead to an expansion of the application of TMS for patients cared 
for by neurologists.

Thieme. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0041-1742265
PMCID: PMC9838190
PMID: 35213900 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: M.C.E. has no financial interests to disclose. 
B.C.D. has been a consultant for Acadia, Alector, Arkuda, Biogen, Denali, Lilly, 
Merck, Novartis, Takeda, Wave Lifesciences. J.A.C. is a member of the Scientific 
Advisory Board of Hyka Therapeutics and Feelmore Labs, and has been a consultant 
for Neuronetics.