[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: Horny '98 | Type: Instruction-QA | Level: Graduate]

Question: Provide a comprehensive expert-level explanation of Horny '98 in the context of Applied Sciences.

Answer:
"Horny '98" is a house song by German producer Mousse T. featuring British pop duo Hot 'n' Juicy with vocals provided by Inaya Day. It was released in May 1998 by Peppermint Jam and Edel, and reached number two on the UK Singles Chart in the following month, staying on the chart for 17 weeks. The song also reached number one in Italy, number two in New Zealand, and number five in Ireland. It was later included on the South Park soundtrack album Chef Aid: The South Park Album (1998). Two different music videos were produced for the song.

In 2006, a mash-up of the song with "Bohemian Like You" by the Dandy Warhols—titled "Horny as a Dandy"—reached number 17 on the UK Singles Chart, number 14 in Austria, and number 10 in Italy.

Release and performance
Originally called "Horny Track", which was produced with a trumpet sample from Earth, Wind & Fire's 1983 song "Something Special", the single was actually first released as an instrumental in 1997 on a limited edition vinyl 12-inch single as a little "present" for fellow club DJs. But the 1998 remake was given a commercial edge after adding vocals by duo Emma Lanford and Nadine Richardson, with Inaya Day, working under the name Hot'N'Juicy (although only Emma Southam and Nadine Richardson appear in the music video and on the sleeve). Italian house music fans were the first to pick up on the record.

The single reached number one on the singles chart in Italy and became a massive summer hit. Then the track reached the top position on the German dance chart after some seven weeks. It also peaked at number two in the UK, number three in Scotland, number five in Ireland, number nine in Norway, number 11 in Switzerland and number 12 in Iceland. On the Eurochart Hot 100, "Horny '98" reached number six in June 1998. Outside Europe, it peaked at number two in New Zealand, number 12 on the Billboard Hot Dance Singles Sales chart in the US and number 13 in Australia. Two very similar music videos were made for the song.

Critical reception
Chuck Taylor from Billboard wrote, "As one of many highlights on the new South Park collection, 'Horny' has the potential to be the novelty smash of the season." He added further, "With lyrics that are ultra-self-explanatory, 'Horny' will either bring a giddy smile or a look of disdain. While it has been wholly embraced by club pundits who tend to appreciate anything cheeky and suggestive, those at radio may find themselves more comfortable distancing themselves from it. Of course, carefree, adventurous types will see 'Horny' as the best thing to come down the pike since Rice Krispies treats. Better yet, perhaps they will simply look to European radio—which treated this as a full-fledged pop record—and turn it into a major hit." 

An editor from Daily Record praised it as a "raunchy R&B hit", and "this year's catchiest summer anthem so far." Pan-European magazine Music & Media opined that the music is "tough and sexy with a tight disco beat, screeching horns and an appropriately smouldering vocal. The shadow of Gloria Gaynor looms very, very large over this tune but that's no bad thing..." They also declared the song as a "perfect dance/pop crossover". Mike Goldsmith from NME described it as "such screamingly familiar ear candy". Ziad from the Record Mirror Dance Update gave "Horny '98" five out of five and named it Tune of the Week, writing, "At the heart of it are some very catchy, distinctive string/brass disco stabs, which provide the main hook, and this '98 version sees the addition of a female vocal, basically singing that she's feeling horny. All these are strong ingredients indeed, for what should be a huge record."

Impact and legacy
In 2018, Dave Fawbert from ShortList said, "Completing 1998's sexy one-two, this is the sound of Jumpin' Jaks in Romford in the summer of 1998: the sound of carefree youth, shots for a pound, dancing on the tables and fights outside McDonald's. Wonderful."

Tomorrowland featured "Horny '98" in their official list of "The Ibiza 500" in 2020.

Hot 'n' Juicy
Hot 'n' Juicy were initially a duo of singers, Emma Lanford and Nadine Richardson. They appeared on the 1998 version of "Horny" and the 2006 mash up "Horny as a Dandy". They were residents of a tower block on the former Lee Bank estate in Birmingham. They became a trio in late 1998 when they were joined by Nikki Belle, who remained in the group until 1999. After the group split up, Belle went on to provide vocals on a version of Womack & Womack's "Teardrops" for Whelan & Di Scala, an English EDM duo.

South Park version
The song was later included on the South Park soundtrack album Chef Aid: The South Park Album. On Chef Aid, the song opens with a mock phone call between Sid Greenfield (voiced by Trey Parker) and South Park creators, Matt Stone and Trey Parker, talking about putting the song on the album. In the mock phone call (which begins on the previous track, and continues throughout "Horny") Matt and Trey repeatedly voice their dislike for the song, and Sid Greenfield finally agrees not to include it (this being after the song has already finished playing in its entirety).

Track listings

 German CD single
 "Horny '98" (radio edit) – 3:57
 "Horny '98" (Boris Gets Horny radio edit) – 2:55
 "Horny '98" (extended mix) – 6:21
 "Horny '98" (Boris Gets Horny extended mix) – 9:11
 "Horny" (original mix) – 5:14

 German 12-inch single
A1. "Horny '98" (extended mix) – 6:21
A2. "Horny" (original mix) – 5:14
B1. "Horny '98" (Boris Gets Horny extended mix) – 9:11
B2. "Horny '98" (radio edit) – 3:57

 European CD single
 "Horny '98" (radio edit) – 3:57
 "Horny '98" (extended mix) – 6:21

 UK, Australian, and New Zealand CD single
 "Horny" (Boris Gets Edited)
 "Horny '98" (radio edit)
 "Horny '98" (extended mix)
 "Horny" (Boris Gets Horny mix)
 "Horny" (original mix)
 "Horny" (Elusive dub 1)

 UK 12-inch single
A1. "Horny" (Boris Gets Horny mix)
A2. "Horny" (original mix)
AA1. "Horny '98" (extended mix)
AA2. "Horny" (Elusive dub 1)