[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS neurology | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS neurology]

46. Curr Opin Neurol. 2014 Apr;27(2):236-41. doi: 10.1097/WCO.0000000000000071.

Transcranial magnetic stimulation for the diagnosis and treatment of epilepsy.

Kimiskidis VK(1), Valentin A, Kälviäinen R.

Author information:
(1)aLaboratory of Clinical Neurophysiology, AHEPA Hospital, Aristotle University 
of Thessaloniki, Thessaloniki, Greece bDepartment of Clinical Neuroscience, 
King's College London, Institute of Psychiatry cDepartment of Clinical 
Neurophysiology, King's College Hospital, London, UK dDepartment of Neurology, 
Kuopio Epilepsy Center, Kuopio University Hospital and Institute of Clinical 
Medicine, Neurology, University of Eastern Finland, Kuopio, Finland.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: The aim is to critically review recent advances emerging from 
the application of transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) as a research and 
clinical tool in the field of epilepsy.
RECENT FINDINGS: A number of TMS-electromyography (EMG) and 
TMS-electroencephalography (EEG) studies have identified distinct changes of 
cortical excitability associated with specific epilepsy syndromes and in 
asymptomatic siblings of patients with epilepsy. Pharmaco-TMS studies have shed 
additional light on the effects of traditional and recently introduced 
antiepileptic drugs on excitatory and inhibitory brain microcircuits as well as 
cortical plasticity mechanisms. In addition, stronger evidence has emerged that 
TMS may serve as a biomarker with prognostic (i.e. predicting response to 
pharmacologic or surgical interventions) and diagnostic potential (for instance 
aiding in the noninvasive localization of the epileptogenic zone). Finally, the 
role of repetitive TMS in the therapeutic management of drug-resistant 
epilepsies and refractory status epilepticus has been further defined and is 
expected to become more prominent by the optimization of the stimulation 
parameters.
SUMMARY: TMS has provided important insight into the pathophysiological 
substrate of human epilepsies and emerges as a valuable tool with diagnostic, 
prognostic and therapeutic potential. The recent advent of TMS-EEG can be 
reasonably expected to contribute further significant advances to the field of 
epilepsy.

DOI: 10.1097/WCO.0000000000000071
PMID: 24553462 [Indexed for MEDLINE]