[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: photodynamic therapy cancer clinical trial | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: photodynamic therapy cancer clinical trial]

9. J Surg Oncol. 2005 Dec 1;92(3):246-56. doi: 10.1002/jso.20366.

Palliative therapy.

Homs MY(1), Kuipers EJ, Siersema PD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Erasmus MC University Medical 
Center Rotterdam, 3000 CA Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

There are a wide variety of palliative treatments for esophageal cancer. The aim 
of most treatments is to maintain oral food intake, which should stabilize or 
even improve quality of life. Stent placement is currently the most widely used 
treatment modality for palliation of dysphagia from esophageal cancer. Stent 
placement offers a rapid relief of dysphagia, however, the rate of complications 
(late hemorrhage) and recurrent dysphagia (stent migration, tumor overgrowth) is 
relatively high. The scientific evidence to advocate the use of anti-reflux 
stents for the prevention of gastro-esophageal reflux is currently too low. 
Photodynamic therapy is mostly used in North America; however, due to the high 
costs of the treatment, the long-lasting side effects and the necessity of 
repeated treatments, it is not an ideal treatment for palliation of malignant 
dysphagia. Nd:YAG laser is a relatively effective and safe treatment modality, 
although laser treatment is also expensive, technically difficult and requiring 
repeated treatment sessions at 4-6 weeks intervals. Single dose brachytherapy 
compares favorably to stent placement in long-term effectiveness and safety. 
Effective treatment strategies are probably 12 Gy given in one fraction or 16 Gy 
given in two fractions. Palliative chemotherapy offers response rates in recent 
trials (including partial and complete responses) ranging from 35% to 50%. 
Whether palliative chemotherapy also results in a survival benefit is not 
established yet. For clinical trials on palliation of esophageal cancer, the 
measurement of quality of life is an important outcome measure. The 
cancer-specific EORTC QLQ-C30 and the esophageal cancer-specific EORTC-OES-18 
are validated measures for establishing quality of life status. For the future, 
a multimodality approach with stent placement or brachytherapy in combination 
with chemotherapy may be indicated.

(c) 2005 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/jso.20366
PMID: 16299791 [Indexed for MEDLINE]