[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: Magnetofection | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Magnetofection — Overview

structure into cells) and occasionally in the cell nucleus. Biocompatibility Magnetic nanoparticles do not aggregate easily once the magnet is removed, and therefore are unlikely to block capillaries or cause thrombosis. In addition, iron oxide is biodegradable, and the iron can be reused in hemoglobin or iron metabolism pathways. Disadvantages Particle variability Magnetic nanoparticle synthesis can sometimes lead to a wide range of differently sized particles. The size of particles can influence their usefulness. Specifically, nanoparticles that are less than 10 nm or greater than 200 nm in size tend to be cleared from the body more quickly. Localization in vivo 
While magnets can be used to localize magnetic nanoparticles to desired cells, this mechanism may be difficult to maintain in practice. The nanoparticles can be concentrated in 2D space such as on a culture plate or at the surface of the body, but it can be more difficult to localize them in the 3D space of the body. Magnetofection does not work well for organs or blood vessels far from the surface of the body, since the magnetic field weakens as distance increases. In addition, the user must consider the frequency and timing of applying the magnetic field, as the particles will not necessarily stay in the desired location once the magnet is removed. Cytotoxicity 
While iron oxide used to make nanoparticles is biodegradable, the toxicity of magnetic nanoparticles is still under investigation. Some research has found no signs of damage to cells, while others claim that small (< 2 nm) nanoparticles can diffuse across cell membranes and disrupt organelles. In addition, very high concentrations of iron oxide can disrupt homeostasis and lead to iron overload, which can damage or alter DNA, affect cellular responses, and kill cells. Lysosymes can also digest the nanoparticles and release free iron which can react with hydrogen peroxide to form free radicals, leading to cytotoxic, mutagenic, and carcinogenic effects. References

Further reading

See also 
 Magnet-assisted transfection

Molecular biology
Molecular genetics
Laboratory techniques
Biomagnetics