[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: List of maglev train proposals | Type: Instruction-QA | Level: Graduate]

Question: Provide a comprehensive expert-level explanation of List of maglev train proposals in the context of Applied Sciences.

Answer:
This is a list of proposed maglev trains worldwide.  Some proposals may have been rejected.

Asia

China 
Shanghai – Hangzhou: China had planned to extend the world's first commercial Transrapid line between Pudong airport and the city of Shanghai initially by some 35 kilometers to Hong Qiao airport before the World Expo 2010 and then, in an additional phase, by 200 kilometers to the city of Hangzhou (Shanghai-Hangzhou Maglev Train), which would have been the first inter-city maglev rail line in commercial service in the world. The line would have been an extension of the Shanghai airport maglev line.

Talks with Germany and Transrapid Konsortium about the details of the construction contracts took place. While the Chinese Minister of Transportation was quoted by several Chinese and Western newspapers in 2006 as saying the line was approved, a February 27, 2009 People's Daily Online article indicates that the Shanghai municipal government is considering building the line underground to allay the public's fear of electromagnetic pollution, and that any final decision has to be approved by the National Development and Reform Commission. There are no current plans to extend the line.

India 

The Indian Ministry was in the process of reviewing a proposal to start a maglev train system in India. It had been estimated that the cost to complete the maglev line between Mumbai and Pune would be over $30 billion. The company who sent the proposals is based in the United States. If completed, the train travel time between the two cities would have been reduced to half an hour, compared to the original two hours. This is planned near Hinjawadi in an area called Pimple Saudagar. Pune and Mumbai have a freeway (also called as expressway) where approximately 14000 vehicles travel daily, making fuel consumption at .2 million liters a day . The business proposal is to reduce the fuel consumption and promote maglev by income from Carbon Credit Sales.
Mumbai – DelhiA maglev line project was presented to the then Indian railway minister (Mamata Banerjee) by an American company. A line was proposed to serve between the cities of Mumbai and Delhi, the Prime Minister Manmohan Singh said that if the line project is successful the Indian government would build lines between other cities and also between Mumbai Central and Chhatrapati Shivaji International Airport.
Mumbai – Nagpur
The State of Maharashtra has also approved a feasibility study for a maglev train between Mumbai (the commercial capital of India as well as the State government capital) and Nagpur (the second State capital) about  away. It plans to connect the regions of Mumbai and Pune with Nagpur via less developed hinterland (via Ahmednagar, Beed, Latur, Nanded and Yavatmal).
Chennai – Bangalore – Mysore
Per Large and Medium Scale Industries Minister of Karnataka Mr. Murugesh Nirani, a detailed report will be prepared and submitted by December 2012 and the project is expected to cost $26 million per kilometer of railway track. The speed of maglev will be 350 km/h and the Bangalore to Mysore portion would take as little as 30 minutes.
Kochi Metro
Union Minister of State for Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution K. V. Thomas proposed that Kochi Metro can adopt same technology as present in South Korea.

Mumbai Maglev
A 2007 proposal, revived in 2020, for a  elevated line to connect Chhatrapati Shivaji Terminus (CSTM) and Panvel with a branch line to Navi Mumbai International Airport.

Japan 
Tokyo – Osaka: On May 27, 2011, the Transport Minister of Japan approved the Chūō Shinkansen maglev line, connecting Tokyo to Osaka and expanding off of the existing test track in Yamanashi prefecture. Construction began in 2014 with the first segment from Tokyo to Nagoya to be completed by 2027.  The second segment from Nagoya to Osaka is expected to be completed by 2045.  The 550 km-line will have a top operating speed of 500 km/h and a travel time between Tokyo and Osaka of just 67 minutes.

Malaysia 
Johor: Malaysia has decided to use maglev technology to link important landmarks across the city. This will be a boost to business to compete against the neighbouring city, Singapore. The system will be a monorail type maglev, developed in China.

Philippines 
Cebu: Philtram Consortium's Cebu Monorail project will be initially built as a monorail system. In the future, it will be upgraded to a patented monorail-type maglev technology named the Spin-Induced Lenz's Law Magnetic Levitation Train.

Hong Kong 
Kowloon – Border with China: The Express Rail Link, previously known as the Regional Express, which will connect Kowloon with the territory's border with China, explored different technologies and designs in its planning stage, between maglev and conventional highspeed railway, and if the latter was chosen, between a dedicated new route and sharing the tracks with the existing West Rail. Instead of a maglev, a conventional highspeed train with a dedicated new route was built and became operational on 23 September 2018.

Europe

Denmark 
A Maglev connection between Copenhagen and Århus was proposed.

Germany 
Munich: A Transrapid connection linking the city centre of the Bavarian capital Munich to the airport (37 km) was planned. It promised to reduce the connection time from about 40 minutes by the existing S-Bahn (German city railway system) to 10 minutes. On September 25, 2007, Bavaria announced it would build Europe's first commercial track. The Bavarian government signed a contract with Deutsche Bahn and Transrapid  with Siemens and ThyssenKrupp for the 1.85 billion-euro ($2.6 billion) project. However, the project was strongly opposed by Christian Ude, the mayor of Munich. On 27 March 2008, the German government scrapped the project because of a massive cost overrun.

Berlin – Hamburg: A 292 km Transrapid line linking Berlin to Hamburg. It was cancelled due to lack of funds, and the existing conventional railway line was upgraded for 230 km/h oper