[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: natural product antibiotic drug discovery | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: natural product antibiotic drug discovery]

54. Drug Des Devel Ther. 2015 Dec 3;9:6285-302. doi: 10.2147/DDDT.S58049. 
eCollection 2015.

Synthetic biology for pharmaceutical drug discovery.

Trosset JY(1), Carbonell P(2).

Author information:
(1)Bioinformation Research Laboratory, Sup'Biotech, Villejuif, France.
(2)Faculty of Life Sciences, SYNBIOCHEM Centre, Manchester Institute of 
Biotechnology, University of Manchester, Manchester, UK ; Department of 
Experimental and Health Sciences (DCEXS), Research Programme on Biomedical 
Informatics (GRIB), Hospital del Mar Medical Research Institute (IMIM), 
Universitat Pompeu Fabra (UPF), Barcelona, Spain.

Synthetic biology (SB) is an emerging discipline, which is slowly reorienting 
the field of drug discovery. For thousands of years, living organisms such as 
plants were the major source of human medicines. The difficulty in 
resynthesizing natural products, however, often turned pharmaceutical industries 
away from this rich source for human medicine. More recently, progress on 
transformation through genetic manipulation of biosynthetic units in 
microorganisms has opened the possibility of in-depth exploration of the large 
chemical space of natural products derivatives. Success of SB in drug synthesis 
culminated with the bioproduction of artemisinin by microorganisms, a tour de 
force in protein and metabolic engineering. Today, synthetic cells are not only 
used as biofactories but also used as cell-based screening platforms for both 
target-based and phenotypic-based approaches. Engineered genetic circuits in 
synthetic cells are also used to decipher disease mechanisms or drug mechanism 
of actions and to study cell-cell communication within bacteria consortia. This 
review presents latest developments of SB in the field of drug discovery, 
including some challenging issues such as drug resistance and drug toxicity.

DOI: 10.2147/DDDT.S58049
PMCID: PMC4675648
PMID: 26673570 [Indexed for MEDLINE]