[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS neurology | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS neurology]

68. Sci Rep. 2022 Nov 12;12(1):19391. doi: 10.1038/s41598-022-23040-z.

Simultaneous transcranial electrical and magnetic stimulation boost gamma 
oscillations in the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex.

Maiella M(1), Casula EP(1)(2), Borghi I(1)(3), Assogna M(1), D'Acunto A(1), 
Pezzopane V(1), Mencarelli L(1), Rocchi L(4), Pellicciari MC(1), Koch G(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Behavioural and Clinical Neurology, Santa Lucia Foundation 
IRCCS, Via Ardeatina, 306, 00179, Rome, Italy.
(2)Department of Psychology, La Sapienza University, Rome, Italy.
(3)Center for Translational Neurophysiology of Speech and Communication, 
Istituto Italiano di Tecnologia (IIT), Ferrara, Italy.
(4)Department of Medical Sciences and Public Health, Institute of Neurology, 
University of Cagliari, Cagliari, Italy.
(5)Department of Behavioural and Clinical Neurology, Santa Lucia Foundation 
IRCCS, Via Ardeatina, 306, 00179, Rome, Italy. g.koch@hsantalucia.it.
(6)Department of Neuroscience and Rehabilitation, University of Ferrara, 
Ferrara, Italy. g.koch@hsantalucia.it.

Neural oscillations in the gamma frequency band have been identified as a 
fundament for synaptic plasticity dynamics and their alterations are central in 
various psychiatric and neurological conditions. Transcranial magnetic 
stimulation (TMS) and alternating electrical stimulation (tACS) may have a 
strong therapeutic potential by promoting gamma oscillations expression and 
plasticity. Here we applied intermittent theta-burst stimulation (iTBS), an 
established TMS protocol known to induce LTP-like cortical plasticity, 
simultaneously with transcranial alternating current stimulation (tACS) at 
either theta (θtACS) or gamma (γtACS) frequency on the dorsolateral prefrontal 
cortex (DLPFC). We used TMS in combination with electroencephalography (EEG) to 
evaluate changes in cortical activity on both left/right DLPFC and over the 
vertex. We found that simultaneous iTBS with γtACS but not with θtACS resulted 
in an enhancement of spectral gamma power, a trend in shift of individual peak 
frequency towards faster oscillations and an increase of local connectivity in 
the gamma band. Furthermore, the response to the neuromodulatory protocol, in 
terms of gamma oscillations and connectivity, were directly correlated with the 
initial level of cortical excitability. These results were specific to the DLPFC 
and confined locally to the site of stimulation, not being detectable in the 
contralateral DLPFC. We argue that the results described here could promote a 
new and effective method able to induce long-lasting changes in brain plasticity 
useful to be clinically applied to several psychiatric and neurological 
conditions.

© 2022. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-022-23040-z
PMCID: PMC9653481
PMID: 36371451 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.