[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS neurology | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS neurology]

57. Handb Clin Neurol. 2013;116:599-611. doi: 10.1016/B978-0-444-53497-2.00048-6.

Dementia.

Nardone R(1), Golaszewski S, Trinka E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Christian Doppler Clinic, Paracelsus Medical 
University, Salzburg, Austria; Department of Neurology, Franz Tappeiner 
Hospital, Merano, Italy. Electronic address: raffaele.nardone@asbmeran-o.it.

Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) has been used extensively to 
characterize motor system pathophysiology in Alzheimer's disease (AD) and other 
forms of dementia, as well to monitor the effects of certain pharmacological 
agents. Among the studies focusing on motor cortical excitability measures, the 
most consistent finding is a significant reduction of short-latency afferent 
inhibition (SAI) in AD and other forms of dementia in which the cholinergic 
system is affected, such as dementia with Lewy bodies. SAI evaluation may thus 
provide a reliable biomarker of cortical cholinergic dysfunction in dementias. 
Moreover, most TMS studies have demonstrated cortical hyperexcitability and 
asymptomatic motor cortex functional reorganization in the early stages of the 
disease. Integrated approaches utilizing TMS together with high-density EEG have 
indicated impaired cortical plasticity and functional connectivity across 
different neural networks in AD. Paired associative stimulation-induced 
plasticity has also been found to be abnormal in patients with AD. The 
development of novel noninvasive methods of brain stimulation, in particular 
repetitive TMS (rTMS) and transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS), has 
increased the interest in neuromodulatory techniques as potential therapeutic 
tools for cognitive rehabilitation in AD. Preliminary studies have revealed that 
rTMS and tDCS can induce beneficial effects on specific cognitive functions in 
AD. Future studies are warranted to replicate and extend the initial findings.

© 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/B978-0-444-53497-2.00048-6
PMID: 24112927 [Indexed for MEDLINE]