[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: MRI physics image quality artifact reduction | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: MRI physics image quality artifact reduction]

21. Neuroimage. 2020 Oct 1;219:117031. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2020.117031.
Epub  2020 Jun 8.

ExploreASL: An image processing pipeline for multi-center ASL perfusion MRI 
studies.

Mutsaerts HJMM(1), Petr J(2), Groot P(3), Vandemaele P(4), Ingala S(5), 
Robertson AD(6), Václavů L(7), Groote I(8), Kuijf H(9), Zelaya F(10), O'Daly 
O(10), Hilal S(11), Wink AM(5), Kant I(12), Caan MWA(13), Morgan C(14), de 
Bresser J(15), Lysvik E(8), Schrantee A(3), Bjørnebekk A(16), Clement P(4), 
Shirzadi Z(17), Kuijer JPA(5), Wottschel V(5), Anazodo UC(18), Pajkrt D(19), 
Richard E(20), Bokkers RPH(21), Reneman L(3), Masellis M(17), Günther M(22), 
MacIntosh BJ(17), Achten E(4), Chappell MA(23), van Osch MJP(7), Golay X(24), 
Thomas DL(24), De Vita E(25), Bjørnerud A(26), Nederveen A(3), Hendrikse J(27), 
Asllani I(28), Barkhof F(29).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology and Nuclear Medicine, Amsterdam Neuroscience, 
Amsterdam University Medical Center, Location VUmc, Amsterdam, the Netherlands; 
Radiology and Nuclear Medicine, Amsterdam Neuroscience, Amsterdam University 
Medical Centers, Location Academic Medical Center, University of Amsterdam, 
Amsterdam, the Netherlands; Radiology, University Medical Center Utrecht, 
Utrecht, the Netherlands; Kate Gleason College of Engineering, Rochester 
Institute of Technology, NY, USA; Ghent Institute for Functional and Metabolic 
Imaging (GIfMI), Ghent University, Ghent, Belgium. Electronic address: 
h.j.mutsaerts@amsterdamumc.nl.
(2)Kate Gleason College of Engineering, Rochester Institute of Technology, NY, 
USA; Helmholtz-Zentrum Dresden-Rossendorf, Institute of Radiopharmaceutical 
Cancer Research, Dresden, Germany.
(3)Radiology and Nuclear Medicine, Amsterdam Neuroscience, Amsterdam University 
Medical Centers, Location Academic Medical Center, University of Amsterdam, 
Amsterdam, the Netherlands.
(4)Ghent Institute for Functional and Metabolic Imaging (GIfMI), Ghent 
University, Ghent, Belgium.
(5)Department of Radiology and Nuclear Medicine, Amsterdam Neuroscience, 
Amsterdam University Medical Center, Location VUmc, Amsterdam, the Netherlands.
(6)Schlegel-UW Research Institute for Aging, University of Waterloo, Waterloo, 
Ontario, Canada.
(7)C.J. Gorter Center for High Field MRI, Department of Radiology, Leiden 
University Medical Center, Leiden, the Netherlands.
(8)Department of Diagnostic Physics, Oslo University Hospital, Oslo, Norway.
(9)Image Sciences Institute, University Medical Center Utrecht, Utrecht, the 
Netherlands.
(10)Department of Neuroimaging, Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology and 
Neuroscience, King's College London, London, UK.
(11)Department of Pharmacology, National University of Singapore, Singapore; 
Memory Aging and Cognition Center, National University Health System, Singapore; 
Saw Swee Hock School of Public Health, National University of Singapore, 
Singapore.
(12)Radiology, University Medical Center Utrecht, Utrecht, the Netherlands; 
Department of Intensive Care, University Medical Centre, Utrecht, the 
Netherlands.
(13)Department of Biomedical Engineering and Physics, Amsterdam University 
Medical Center, Location Academic Medical Center, Amsterdam, the Netherlands.
(14)School of Psychology and Centre for Brain Research, University of Auckland, 
Auckland, New Zealand.
(15)Department of Radiology, Leiden University Medical Center, Leiden, the 
Netherlands.
(16)The Anabolic Androgenic Steroid Research Group, National Advisory Unit on 
Substance Use Disorder Treatment, Oslo University Hospital, Oslo, Norway.
(17)Sunnybrook Research Institute, University of Toronto, Toronto, Canada.
(18)Department of Medical Biophysics, University of Western Ontario, London, 
Canada; Imaging Division, Lawson Health Research Institute, London, Canada.
(19)Department of Pediatric Infectious Diseases, Emma Children's Hospital, 
Amsterdam University Medical Centre, Location Academic Medical Center, 
Amsterdam, the Netherlands.
(20)Department of Neurology, Donders Institute for Brain, Behavior and 
Cognition, Radboud University Medical Centre, Nijmegen, the Netherlands; 
Neurology, Amsterdam University Medical Center, Location Academic Medical 
Center, University of Amsterdam, Amsterdam, the Netherlands.
(21)Department of Radiology, Medical Imaging Center, University Medical Center 
Groningen, University of Groningen, Groningen, the Netherlands.
(22)Fraunhofer MEVIS, Bremen, Germany; University of Bremen, Bremen, Germany; 
Mediri GmbH, Heidelberg, Germany.
(23)Institute of Biomedical Engineering, Department of Engineering Science & 
Wellcome Centre for Integrative Neuroimaging, FMRIB, Nuffield Department of 
Clinical Neuroscience, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK.
(24)UCL Queen Square Institute of Neurology, University College London, London, 
UK.
(25)Department of Biomedical Engineering, School of Biomedical Engineering & 
Imaging Sciences, King's College London, King's Health Partners, St Thomas' 
Hospital, London, SE1 7EH, UK.
(26)Department of Diagnostic Physics, Oslo University Hospital, Oslo, Norway; 
Department of Psychology, University of Oslo, Norway.
(27)Radiology, University Medical Center Utrecht, Utrecht, the Netherlands.
(28)Kate Gleason College of Engineering, Rochester Institute of Technology, NY, 
USA; Clinical Imaging Sciences Centre, Department of Neuroscience, Brighton and 
Sussex Medical School, Brighton, UK.
(29)Department of Radiology and Nuclear Medicine, Amsterdam Neuroscience, 
Amsterdam University Medical Center, Location VUmc, Amsterdam, the Netherlands; 
UCL Queen Square Institute of Neurology, University College London, London, UK; 
Centre for Medical Image Computing (CMIC), Faculty of Engineering Science, 
University College London, London, UK.

Arterial spin labeling (ASL) has undergone significant development since its 
inception, with a focus on improving standardization and reproducibility of its 
acquisition and quantification. In a community-wide effort towards robust and 
reproducible clinical ASL image processing, we developed the software package 
ExploreASL, allowing standardized analyses across centers and scanners. The 
procedures used in ExploreASL capitalize on published image processing 
advancements and address the challenges of multi-center datasets with 
scanner-specific processing and artifact reduction to limit patient exclusion. 
ExploreASL is self-contained, written in MATLAB and based on Statistical 
Parameter Mapping (SPM) and runs on multiple operating systems. To facilitate 
collaboration and data-exchange, the toolbox follows several standards and 
recommendations for data structure, provenance, and best analysis practice. 
ExploreASL was iteratively refined and tested in the analysis of >10,000 ASL 
scans using different pulse-sequences in a variety of clinical populations, 
resulting in four processing modules: Import, Structural, ASL, and Population 
that perform tasks, respectively, for data curation, structural and ASL image 
processing and quality control, and finally preparing the results for 
statistical analyses on both single-subject and group level. We illustrate 
ExploreASL processing results from three cohorts: perinatally HIV-infected 
children, healthy adults, and elderly at risk for neurodegenerative disease. We 
show the reproducibility for each cohort when processed at different centers 
with different operating systems and MATLAB versions, and its effects on the 
quantification of gray matter cerebral blood flow. ExploreASL facilitates the 
standardization of image processing and quality control, allowing the pooling of 
cohorts which may increase statistical power and discover between-group 
perfusion differences. Ultimately, this workflow may advance ASL for wider 
adoption in clinical studies, trials, and practice.

Copyright © 2020. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2020.117031
PMID: 32526385 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.