[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: MIT Museum | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# MIT Museum — Overview

for Photography on the second floor displayed temporary shows of photography related to art, science, and technology, including works connected to MIT and people who have worked or studied there. For example, a photo exhibit of Berenice Abbott's work was on display through 2012, highlighting her scientific visualization work which captured elementary physics principles for science education, including the iconic picture Bouncing ball in diminishing arcs. The stroboscopic high-speed photography of revered MIT professor Doc Edgerton has also been exhibited. Many photos by Abott working with Edgerton were incorporated into a landmark high school physics textbook developed by the Physical Science Study Committee, which was headquartered at MIT in the 1950s. Other exhibits have included research archives, camera prototypes, and artwork from Edwin H. Land and the Polaroid Corporation. The works of 21st-century scientific photographer Felice Frankel have also been exhibited at the museum. Slide rules

The MIT Museum has a collection of hundreds of slide rules, nomograms, and mechanical calculators. The Keuffel and Esser Company collection, from the slide rule manufacturer formerly located in Hoboken, New Jersey, was donated to MIT in 2004, substantially expanding the existing holdings. Selected items from the collection are usually on display at the museum. Kinetic art 
One of the most popular permanent galleries featured approximately a dozen works of kinetic art by Arthur Ganson. In November 2013, the museum opened 5000 Moving Parts, a year-long exhibition of kinetic art, featuring the work of Ganson, Anne Lilly, Rafael Lozano-Hemmer,  John Douglas Powers, and Takis. The exhibition inaugurated a "year of kinetic art" at the museum, featuring special programming related to the artform. Ganson's kinetic artworks have been very popular over the years, and now occupy a semi-permanent gallery in the new Kendall Square museum building. Holography collection 
In 1993, the MIT Museum acquired the complete collection and archives of the Museum of Holography (MOH), formerly on Mercer Street in the SoHo district of Manhattan. The MOH had been dissolved the previous year, and the collection was to be dispersed at auction. At that time an anonymous buyer bought the entire collection and donated it to the MIT Museum, which continues to preserve, expand, and display it for researchers and the general public. Today, the collection is the largest and most comprehensive collection of holograms in the world, containing many specimens of historic, scientific, and artistic value. Only a small fraction of the collection was viewable by the public at any given time, due to space and funding constraints. The MIT Museum continued to host occasional international symposia on holography every few years. The contents of the collection may be searched via an online accessible database. Hacker relics and Building 20 memorial 
For a number of years, the museum housed a Hall of Hacks showcasing some of the famous MIT student pranks, but the section was closed in 2001. This was done to free up gallery space for other exhibits; the artifacts and documentation have been retained for future historical research and exhibition. A few selected larger relics of past hacks are now on semi-permanent display inside the MIT Stata Center, including a "fire hose" drinking fountain, and full-size replicas of a cow and a police car which had been placed atop the Great Dome (but not at the same time); see the MIT hacks article for details. In the ground floor elevator lobby of the Dreyfoos Tower are located a large time capsule box plus informational panels describing MIT's historic Building 20, which was sited where the Stata Center is now. MIT 150 
In January 2011, the museum reopened its upper galleries, including the Thomas Peterson '57 Gallery, after an extensive renovation. The first exhibit in the renovated space was The MIT 150 Exhibition in commemoration of the 150th anniversary of MIT's founding charter on April 10, 1861. The special exhibit consisted of 150 objects, documents, and other artifacts showing the history of people, places, and ideas related to MIT. A website was set up in tandem, including supplemental information and an online timeline. Video interviews specially created for the exhibition were available for viewing onsite and online. Student showcase
Inventions: student showcase displayed inventions and kinetic art made by MIT students, often as part of coursework such as "STS.035 Exhibiting Science". Some of these projects were built at the MIT Museum Studio, a makerspace for students, while others were created in a variety of courses and laboratories at MIT. References

External links

 
 MIT 150 Exhibition website

Massachusetts Institute of Technology buildings
Museums in Cambridge, Massachusetts
University museums in Massachusetts
Science museums in Massachusetts
Technology museums in the United States
Holography
Photography exhibitions
Museums established in 1971
Institutions accredited by the American Alliance of Museums
Association of Science-Technology Centers member institutions