[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: Ultrafast laser spectroscopy | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Ultrafast laser spectroscopy — Overview

a specific wavelength. The light then is detected and amplified by a photomultiplier tube (PMT). The emitted light signal as well as reference light signal is processed through a constant fraction discriminator (CFD) which eliminates timing jitter. After passing through the CFD, the reference pulse activates a time-to-amplitude converter (TAC) circuit. The TAC charges a capacitor which will hold the signal until the next electrical pulse. In reverse TAC mode the signal of "sync" stops the TAC. This data is then further processed by an analog-to-digital converter (ADC) and multi-channel analyzer (MCA) to get a data output. To make sure that the decay is not biased to early arriving photons, the photon count rate is kept low (usually less than 1% of excitation rate). This electrical pulse comes after the second laser pulse excites the molecule to a higher energy state, and a photon is eventually emitted from a single molecule upon returning to its original state. Thus, the longer a molecule takes to emit a photon, the higher the voltage of the resulting pulse. The central concept of this technique is that only a single photon is needed to discharge the capacitor. Thus, this experiment must be repeated many times to gather the full range of delays between excitation and emission of a photon. After each trial, a pre-calibrated computer converts the voltage sent out by the TAC into a time and records the event in a histogram of time since excitation. Since the probability that no molecule will have relaxed decreases with time, a decay curve emerges that can then be analyzed to find out the decay rate of the event. A major complicating factor is that many decay processes involve multiple energy states, and thus multiple rate constants. Though non-linear least squares analysis can usually detect the different rate constants, determining the processes involved is often very difficult and requires the combination of multiple ultra-fast techniques. Even more complicating is the presence of inter-system crossing and other non-radiative processes in a molecule. A limiting factor of this technique is that it is limited to studying energy states that result in fluorescent decay. The technique can also be used to study relaxation of electrons from the conduction band to the valence band in semiconductors. See also
Time-resolved spectroscopy
Terahertz time-domain spectroscopy (THz-TDS)
Electronic configuration
Atomic spectral line
Attosecond chronoscopy

References

External links
Ultrafast studies of single semiconductor and metal nanostructures through transient absorption microscopy, a Chemical Science mini review by Gregory Hartland
W. Becker: The bh TCSPC Handbook., Fifth Edition, 2012,  (Becker & Hickl GmbH, PDF file, 77 MB)
W. Becker: The bh TCSPC Handbook., 7th Edition, 2017 (Becker & Hickl GmbH, PDF file)
Ultrafast Lasers: An animated guide to the functioning of Ti:Sapphire lasers and amplifiers. Ultrafast spectroscopy