[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: biomaterial implant osseointegration titanium clin | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: biomaterial implant osseointegration titanium clinical]

66. ACS Nano. 2024 Sep 10;18(36):24968-24983. doi: 10.1021/acsnano.4c05859. Epub 
2024 Aug 28.

"Photo-Thermo-Electric" Dental Implant for Anti-Infection and Enhanced 
Osteoimmunomodulation.

Chen B(1)(2), Wang W(1)(2), Hu M(1)(2), Liang Y(1)(2), Wang N(1)(2), Li C(1)(2), 
Li Y(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Dentistry, Stomatological Hospital, Tianjin Medical University, 
Tianjin 300070, P. R. China.
(2)Tianjin Key Laboratory of Oral Soft and Hard Tissues Restoration and 
Regeneration, Tianjin 300070, P. R. China.

The dental implant market has experienced explosive growth, owing to the 
widespread acceptance of implants as the core of oral rehabilitation. 
Clinically, achieving simultaneous anti-infective effects and rapid 
osseointegration is a crucial but challenging task for implants. The demand for 
implants with long-term broad-spectrum antibacterial and immune-osteogenic 
properties is growing. Existing methods are limited by a lack of safety, 
efficiency, short-lasting anti-infective ability, and inadequate consideration 
of the immunomodulatory effects on osteogenesis. Herein, a ZnO/black TiO2-x 
heterojunction surface structure was designed as a near-infrared (NIR) 
light-responsive nanofilm immobilized on a titanium (Ti) implant surface. This 
nanofilm introduces abundant oxygen vacancies and heterojunctions, which enhance 
the photothermal and photoelectric abilities of Ti implants under NIR 
illumination by narrowing the band gap and improving interfacial charge 
transfer. The "photo-thermo-electric" implant exhibits excellent broad-spectrum 
antibacterial efficacy against three dental pathogenic bacteria (Porphyromonas 
gingivalis, Fusobacterium nucleatum, and Staphylococcus aureus, >99.4%) by 
destroying the bacterial membrane and increasing the production of intracellular 
reactive oxygen species. Additionally, the implant can effectively eliminate 
mature multispecies biofilms and kill bacteria inside the biofilms under NIR 
irradiation. Meanwhile, this implant can also induce the pro-regenerative 
transformation of macrophages and promote osteoblast proliferation and 
differentiation. Moreover, in vivo results confirmed the superior antibacterial 
and osteoimmunomodulatory properties of this dental implant. RNA sequencing 
revealed that the underlying osteogenic mechanisms involve activation of the 
Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway and bone development. Overall, this versatile 
"photo-thermo-electric" platform endows implants with anti-infection and bone 
integration performance simultaneously, which holds great potential for dental 
implants.

DOI: 10.1021/acsnano.4c05859
PMID: 39192736 [Indexed for MEDLINE]