[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS neurology | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS neurology]

8. Can J Neurol Sci. 2022 Jul;49(4):479-492. doi: 10.1017/cjn.2021.158. Epub 2021
 Jul 9.

An Overview of Noninvasive Brain Stimulation: Basic Principles and Clinical 
Applications.

Bhattacharya A(1), Mrudula K(2), Sreepada SS(2), Sathyaprabha TN(2), Pal PK(1), 
Chen R(3), Udupa K(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, National Institute of Mental Health and 
Neurosciences, Bengaluru, India.
(2)Department of Neurophysiology, National Institute of Mental Health and 
Neurosciences, Bengaluru, India.
(3)Division of Neurology, Department of Medicine, Division of Brain, Imaging and 
Behaviour, Krembil Research Institute, University of Toronto, University Health 
Network, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

The brain has the innate ability to undergo neuronal plasticity, which refers to 
changes in its structure and functions in response to continued changes in the 
environment. Although these concepts are well established in animal slice 
preparation models, their application to a large number of human subjects could 
only be achieved using noninvasive brain stimulation (NIBS) techniques. In this 
review, we discuss the mechanisms of plasticity induction using NIBS techniques 
including transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS), transcranial direct current 
stimulation (tDCS), transcranial alternating current stimulation (tACS), random 
noise stimulation (RNS), transcranial ultrasound stimulation (TUS), vagus nerve 
stimulation (VNS), and galvanic vestibular stimulation (GVS). We briefly 
introduce these techniques, explain the stimulation parameters and potential 
clinical implications. Although their mechanisms are different, all these NIBS 
techniques can be used to induce plasticity at the systems level, to examine the 
neurophysiology of brain circuits and have potential therapeutic use in 
psychiatric and neurological disorders. TMS is the most established technique 
for the treatment of brain disorders, and repetitive TMS is an approved 
treatment for medication-resistant depression. Although the data on the clinical 
utility of the other modes of stimulation are more limited, the electrical 
stimulation techniques (tDCS, tACS, RNS, VNS, GVS) have the advantage of lower 
cost, portability, applicability at home, and can readily be combined with 
training or rehabilitation. Further research is needed to expand the clinical 
utility of NIBS and test the combination of different modes of NIBS to optimize 
neuromodulation induced clinical benefits.

DOI: 10.1017/cjn.2021.158
PMID: 34238393 [Indexed for MEDLINE]