[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: laser tissue interaction ablation photothermal | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: laser tissue interaction ablation photothermal]

27. Lasers Surg Med. 2015 Nov;47(9):711-22. doi: 10.1002/lsm.22407. Epub 2015 Sep
9.

Model development and experimental validation for analyzing initial transients 
of irradiation of tissues during thermal therapy using short pulse lasers.

Ganguly M(1), Miller S(1), Mitra K(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Florida Institute of Technology, 
Melbourne, Florida, 32901.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Short pulse lasers with pulse durations in the range 
of nanoseconds and shorter are effective in the targeted delivery of heat energy 
for precise tissue heating and ablation. This photothermal therapy is useful 
where the removal of cancerous tissue sections is required. The objective of 
this paper is to use finite element modeling to demonstrate the differences in 
the thermal response of skin tissue to short-pulse and continuous wave laser 
irradiation in the initial stages of the irradiation. Models have been developed 
to validate the temperature distribution and heat affected zone during laser 
irradiation of excised rat skin samples and live anesthetized mouse tissue.
STUDY DESIGN/MATERIALS AND METHODS: Excised rat skin samples and live 
anesthetized mice were subjected to Nd:YAG pulsed laser (1,064 nm, 500 ns) 
irradiation of varying powers. A thermal camera was used to measure the rise in 
surface temperature as a result of the laser irradiation. Histological analyses 
of the heat affected zone created in the tissue samples due to the temperature 
rise were performed. The thermal interaction of the laser with the tissue was 
quantified by measuring the thermal dose delivered by the laser. Finite element 
geometries of three-dimensional tissue sections for continuum and vascular 
models were developed using COMSOL Multiphysics. Blood flow was incorporated 
into the vascular model to mimic the presence of discrete blood vessels and 
contrasted with the continuum model without blood perfusion.
RESULTS: The temperature rises predicted by the continuum and the vascular 
models agreed with the temperature rises observed at the surface of the excised 
rat tissue samples and live anesthetized mice due to laser irradiation 
respectively. The vascular model developed was able to predict the cooling 
produced by the blood vessels in the region where the vessels were present. The 
temperature rise in the continuum model due to pulsed laser irradiation was 
higher than that due to continuous wave (CW) laser irradiation in the initial 
stages of the irradiation. The temperature rise due to pulsed and CW laser 
irradiation converged as the time of irradiation increased. A similar trend was 
observed when comparing the thermal dose for pulsed and CW laser irradiation in 
the vascular model.
CONCLUSION: Finite element models (continuum and vascular) were developed that 
can be used to predict temperature rise and quantify the thermal dose resulting 
from laser irradiation of excised rat skin samples and live anesthetized mouse 
tissue. The vascular model incorporating blood perfusion effects predicted 
temperature rise better in the live animal tissue. The models developed 
demonstrated that pulsed lasers caused greater temperature rise and delivered a 
greater thermal dose than CW lasers of equal average power, especially during 
the initial transients of irradiation. This analysis will be beneficial for 
thermal therapy applications where maximum delivery of thermal dose over a short 
period of time is important.

© 2015 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/lsm.22407
PMID: 26349633 [Indexed for MEDLINE]