[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: The Herbalist — Meyer | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# The Herbalist — Meyer — Overview

which I shall mention presently, we have no record of his taking an active and direct part in any of those mysterious rites that go to make up our legal procedure. Upon this question of the opportunities he had for knowing in what way a lawyer is trained, I must here acknowledge the debt of gratitude that I am under to my very good friend Mr. Henry Fielding Dickens, one of her
Majesty's Counsel; and how rejoiced, Mr. Attorney-General, would that
father have been had he been able to see the position which his son has
won for himself. He wrote to me a long and kind letter, in which he gave
me further information as to his father's opportunity for observing
lawyers and their mode of living, and he told me that which I did not
know before, and which I think but few people knew before, namely, that
his father had kept a term or two at one of the Inns of Court. He had
eaten the five or six dinners which is part of the necessary legal
education for a barrister; and he had suffered in consequence the usual
pangs of indigestion. But it is not to that that I wish to allude to-
night. Dickens did that which I venture to think but few have done; for,
giving up all idea of pursuing a legal education, and finding that the
dinners did not agree with him, he got back from the Inns of Court some
of the money which he had deposited at that Inn. You are all familiar
with the process which is known as getting butter out of a dog's mouth; I
venture to think that that is an easy thing compared with getting money
back from an Inn of Court. But that is not all that Mr. Dickens told me. He wrote down for me an
experience his father once had with the family solicitor, which, I think,
is worth your hearing. "My father's solicitor, Mr. Ouvry," he says, "was
a very well-known man, a thorough man of the world, and one in whose
breast reposed many of the secrets of the principal families of England. On one occasion my father was in treaty for a piece of land at the back
of Gad's Hill, and it was proposed that there should be an interview with
the owner, a farmer, a very acute man of business, and a very hard nut to
crack. It was arranged that the interview with him should be at Gad's
Hill, and the solicitor came down for the purpose. My father and Ouvry
were sitting over their wine when the old man was announced. 'We had
better go in to him,' said my father. 'No, no,' said the astute lawyer. 'John,' said he, turning to the butler, 'show him into the study, and
take him a bottle of the old port.'  Then turning to my father, 'A glass
of port will do him good; it will soften him.'  After waiting about
twenty minutes they went into the study; the farmer was sitting bolt
upright in an arm-chair, stern and uncompromising; the bottle of port had
not been touched. Negotiations then proceeded very much in favour of the
farmer, and a bargain was struck. The old man then proceeded to turn his
attention to the port, and in a very few minutes he had finished the
bottle."

Mr. Dickens also told me of his father's knowledge of the legal
profession, and of the distinguished members of it. Though not himself,
he writes, of the legal profession, my father was very fond of lawyers. He numbered among his intimate friends Lord Denman, Lord Campbell, Mr. Justice Talfourd, Chief Justice Crockford; in fact, it is difficult to
name any eminent lawyer who could not claim acquaintance, at any rate,
with our great author. And he tells me, too, an anecdote relating to a
distinguished lawyer of the present day--Sir Henry Hawkins. We nearly
lost that great man, I think about the year 1851, on the occasion of some
theatricals at Knebworth. The play was _Every Man in his Humour_, and
Frank Stone, the artist, father of Mr. Marcus Stone, R.A., was allowed to
play a part with a sword. (Those of you who have had any experience of
theatrical matters know how dangerous it is to trust a sword to an
amateur.)  He came up flourishing the sword, and if Mr. Hawkins had not
ducked we should have lost that eminent man; but he did it just in time. Before I introduce you to the types of the judge, the counsel, the
solicitors, let me say something to you of the district in which lawyers
live, or rather in Dickens's time lived, and still do congregate. From
Gray's Inn in the north to the Temple in the south, from New Inn and
Clement's Inn in the west to Barnard's Inn in the east. I once lived
myself in Clement's Inn, and heard the chimes go, too; and I remember one
day I sat in my little room very near the sky (I do not know why it is
that poverty always gets as near the sky as possible; but I should think
it is because the general idea is that there is more sympathy in heaven
than elsewhere), and as I sat there a knock came at the door, and the
head of the porter of Clement's Inn presented itself to me. It was the
first of January, and he gravely gave me an orange and a lemon. He had a
basketful on his arm. I asked for some explanation.