[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Propulsion Mechanics | Topic: Fast Auroral SnapshoT Explorer | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Fast Auroral SnapshoT Explorer — Overview

The Fast Auroral SnapshoT Explorer (FAST or Explorer 70) was a NASA plasma physics satellite, and was the second spacecraft in the Small Explorer program (SMEX). It was launched on 21 August 1996, from Vandenberg Air Force Base aboard a Pegasus XL launch vehicle. The spacecraft was designed and built by NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center (GSFC). Flight operations were handled by GSFC for the first three years, and thereafter were transferred to the University of California, Berkeley's Space Sciences Laboratory. Mission 
FAST was designed to observe and measure the plasma physics of the auroral phenomena which occur around both of Earth's poles. While its Electric Field Experiment failed around 2002, all other instruments continued to operate normally until science operations were ended on 4 May 2009. Various engineering tests were conducted afterward. FAST investigates the plasma physics of auroral phenomena at extremely high time and spatial resolution using the full complement of particle and fields instruments. FAST is the second spacecraft (SAMPEX was first) in the Small Explorer (SMEX) program at NASA-GSFC. SMEX was established to provide rapid (3 year development) low cost (US$35M development) mission opportunities (1 per year) to the space science community using a single designated principal investigator (PI). In order to capture the auroral phenomena over small time (microseconds) and spatial scales, FAST utilizes high speed data sampling, a large, fast-loading ("burst") memory, and a smart, on-board software to trigger on the appearance of various key phenomena. Using a 1 Gb solid-state memory and a data acquisition rate of 8 Mbs (almost two orders of magnitude faster than previous satellites), FAST produces high-resolution "snapshots" of auroral arcs and other interesting auroral events. FAST flies in a highly eccentric, near-polar orbit precessing nominally 1° per day. Scientific investigations are operate in a campaign mode (about 60 days long) as apogee transitions through the northern auroral zone and in less intense survey mode during the rest of the orbit. Spacecraft 

The FAST mission uses a unique (not a SAMPEX derivative), lightweight, orbit-normal spinner spacecraft developed by the SMEX project. The spacecraft has body-mounted solar arrays, and is spin-stabilized, rotating at 12 rpm with the spin axis normal to the orbit plane ("cartwheel"). The four FAST experiments are: (1) the Electrostatic Analyzers (ESA) for measuring the electron and ion distribution function, (2) the Time-of-flight Energy Angle Mass Spectrograph (TEAMS) for measuring the full 3-dimensional distribution function of the major ion species, (3) the Tri-Axial Fluxgate and Search-coil Magnetometers for measuring magnetic field data, and (4) the Electric Field/Langmuir Probe Instrument for obtaining electric field data and plasma density and temperature. The FAST electric field instrument stopped providing meaningful data around 2002, all other instruments and systems continue to function nominally. Experiments

Electric Field and Langmuir Probe Experiment 
The FAST electric field instrument has ten sensors, two on each of the four 29 m radial wire booms (at 24 m and 29 m) and one on each of the two rigid 3 m axial booms. All except the four outermost sensors can also operate as current collecting Langmuir probes. Similar instruments were flown on S3-3, ISEE-1, CRRES, Polar and Cluster. The instrument is designed to provide the following: a vector measurement of the electric field from DC to about 20 kHz over a dynamic range of 0.1 mV/m to 1 V/m with a sampling resolution of 0.03 ms; AC electric field waveform measurements up to 2 MHz with a sampling resolution of 32 ms; continuous monitoring of the dominant frequency and amplitude of high-frequency waves with a time resolution of 0.03 ms; measurement of the thermal plasma density (1-10^5 cm-3) and temperature with up to 0.5 ms and 1 s time resolution, respectively; measurement of the density fluctuations over a dynamic range of 0.1-20 % with a time resolution of at least 1 ms; measurements of time delays between different antennae with time resolution down to 0.03 ms; and wavelength measurements for frequencies up to 20 kHz using on-board interferometric techniques and multiple sensor separations. The FAST electric field instrument stopped providing meaningful data around 2002. Electro-Static Analyzers (ESA) 
Sixteen electrostatic analyzers (ESAs) configured in four stacks are used for both electron and ion measurements. The four stacks are placed around the spacecraft such that the entire package is provided a full 360° field of view (FoV). The ESAs can provide a 64-step energy sweep, covering approximately 3 eV to 30 KeV up to 16 times per second. Each ESA stack contains three Stepped ESA (SESA) analyzers that are used to make the high time resolution electron measurements and a single ion or electron spectrometer (IESA or EESA) used to make detailed distribution measurements.