[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: phytotherapy systematic review clinical evidence | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: phytotherapy systematic review clinical evidence]

10. Eur Urol Focus. 2024 Dec;10(6):947-957. doi: 10.1016/j.euf.2024.07.002. Epub 
2024 Jul 18.

Cranberry Juice, Cranberry Tablets, or Liquid Therapies for Urinary Tract 
Infection: A Systematic Review and Network Meta-analysis.

Moro C(1), Phelps C(2), Veer V(2), Jones M(3), Glasziou P(3), Clark J(3), 
Tikkinen KAO(4), Scott AM(5).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Health Sciences and Medicine, Bond University, Gold Coast, 
Queensland, Australia. Electronic address: cmoro@bond.edu.au.
(2)Faculty of Health Sciences and Medicine, Bond University, Gold Coast, 
Queensland, Australia.
(3)Institute for Evidence-Based Healthcare, Bond University, Gold Coast, 
Queensland, Australia.
(4)Department of Urology, University of Helsinki and Helsinki University 
Hospital, Helsinki, Finland; Department of Surgery, South Karelian Central 
Hospital, Lappeenranta, Finland; Department of Health Research Methods, Evidence 
and Impact, McMaster University, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada.
(5)Institute for Evidence-Based Healthcare, Bond University, Gold Coast, 
Queensland, Australia; Nuffield Department of Population Health, University of 
Oxford, Oxford, UK.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: With over 50% of women suffering from at least one 
episode of urinary tract infection (UTI) throughout their lifetime and an 
increasing prevalence of antimicrobial resistance, efforts need to be made to 
clearly identify the evidence supporting potential non-drug interventions. This 
study aims to compare the effects of cranberry juice, cranberry tablets, and 
increased liquids for the management of UTIs.
METHODS: PubMed, Embase, and Cochrane CENTRAL were searched for randomised 
controlled trials. The primary outcome was the number of UTIs, and the secondary 
outcomes were UTI symptoms and antimicrobial consumption. A risk of bias 
assessment was performed using the Cochrane risk of bias tool, and the certainty 
of evidence was assessed using Grading of Recommendations Assessment, 
Development and Evaluation.
KEY FINDINGS AND LIMITATIONS: A total of 20 trials (3091 participants) were 
included, with 18 studies highlighting a 54% lower rate of UTIs with cranberry 
juice consumption than no treatment and a 27% lower rate than placebo liquid. 
Cranberry juice also resulted in a 49% lower rate of antibiotic use than placebo 
liquid and a 59% lower rate than no treatment, based on a network meta-analysis 
of six studies. The use of cranberry compounds also reduced the prevalence of 
symptoms associated with UTIs.
CONCLUSIONS AND CLINICAL IMPLICATIONS: With moderate to low certainty, the 
evidence supports the use of cranberry juice for the prevention of UTIs. While 
increased liquids reduce the rate of UTIs compared with no treatment, cranberry 
in liquid form provides even better clinical outcomes in terms of reduction in 
UTIs and antibiotic use and should be considered for the management of UTIs.
PATIENT SUMMARY: With the increasing prevalence of antimicrobial-resistant UTIs, 
alternate non-drug treatment options for its management are required. Available 
evidence supports the use of cranberry compounds and increases in fluid intake 
for managing UTIs.

Copyright © 2024 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.euf.2024.07.002
PMID: 39030132 [Indexed for MEDLINE]