[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: Solidarity economy | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Solidarity economy — Overview

the "AND" in its official name, in order to stress solidarity economy's aim of transformative system change, which includes going beyond the social economy. Another global network with the same aims, the Alliance for a Responsible, Plural and United World, produced an enhanced definition: "Production, distribution and consumption activities which contribute to the democratisation of the economy via citizen engagement at the local and global level. Many networks continue to use the term Solidarity Economy and institutions usually refer to SSE as Social and Solidarity Economy. According to previous revolutionary trends, we could be in the midst of a historical shift away from marketism and towards solidarity. Solidarity-based economic approaches 
One SSE approach focuses primarily on making the current economic system sustainable. Its objective is the creation of enterprises that serve its members or the community, instead of simply striving for financial profit by prioritising people and work over capital in the distribution of revenue and
surplus. Human, financial, and environmental assets are just a few instances of the variables that influence a company's sustainability. This notion, which is relevant to SSE enterprises, is integrated into social systems like social accountability and social balance.United Nations Research Institute for Social Development has concluded that "social and solidarity economy, a science-in-the-making, cannot go very far in framing discourses and in engaging with the bigger picture, as an alternative to the crisesridden "dominant economic paradigm"" and calls for further developing SSE into a new scientific theory with its own foundations which would offer an alternative to the homo economicus. Environmental development, furthermore known as sustainable development, is a type of economic and social advancement that ensures living standards within the ecosystem and therefore is tailored to the needs of each sustained region in order to become both humanistic and sustainable throughout time. Another approach in this regard could be the "Bill on the Hook" project of the Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality. The initiative primarily aimed to provide much-needed financial support for the citizens of Istanbul during the COVID-19 pandemic. The platform anonymously matches the donors with households that have outstanding utility bills. In just 31 hours, the campaign generated over 1 million USD (18,600,000 TL) and helped 57,423 people in Istanbul pay their water and gas bills. "Bill on the Hook" is still keeping its popularity, mainly because a large number of households are still unable to pay their utility bills on time due to the current hyperinflation environment in Turkey. Specialized literature includes the following variables as contributing elements to the sustainability of entrepreneurship in the SSE:

 Social factors. It is vital to acknowledge that belief systems should have solid grounds and also acknowledge the possible risk that particular designations may cause as to understand how social psychology contributes to the sociological growth and organizational strength. Politics, religion, and culture. Within each historical and cultural heritage, it is important to ensure factors such as cultural legacy, ancient traditions, as well as the implementation of awareness, while also keeping a sense of community and identity. Associativity. Associativity is a component of competition which enables the implementation of organisational structures that enable decision-making procedures centered on sustainability through time. Education. Consequently, functionality of SSE will rely on the input of the involved stakeholders, on the learning programs that are tailored to the experience, literacy, and educational backgrounds of their staff. Models of intervention in sustainable development. Models should not be uniform processes; rather, these should be created and implemented as part of collaborative initiatives under participatory operations. Core values and principles 
The RIPESS Charter of the Intercontinental Network for the Promotion of Social Solidarity Economy sets out eleven core values to promote the ethical and value-based economic model:

 Humanism – putting human beings, their dignity, culture and full development at the centre
 Democracy – promoting democratic values
 Solidarity – mobilizing resources and establishing relations with other social collectives
 Inclusiveness – establishing dialogue based on the respect for ideological differences
 Subsidiarity – promoting grassroots development to overcome common problems
 Diversity – encouraging representation of players of all sectors of society
 Creativity – promoting innovation that contribute to social change
 Sustainable Development – respecting the balance of the ecosystem by protecting the environment and biodiversity
 Equality, equity and justice for all - fighting against all forms of discrimination and oppression
 Respecting the integration of countries and people - opposing economic, political, and cultural domination of the North over the South
 A plural and solidarity-based economy - providing an alternative to the neoliberal economic model by taking actions towards a plural and solidarity-based economy 
Also, sharing some of the above-mentioned points, six principles have been described in the REAS Charter for Solidarity Economy:

 Principle of equity.