[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: Mugwort | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Mugwort — Overview

blood pressure, tumor growth, and menstrual cycle, as well as anti-fungal, anti-oxidant, and antimicrobial effects. Cultural Medieval Europe In the European Middle Ages, mugwort was used as a magical protective herb. Mugwort was used to repel insects – especially moths – from gardens. Mugwort has also been used from ancient times as a remedy against fatigue and to protect travelers against evil spirits and wild animals. Roman soldiers put mugwort in their sandals to protect their feet against fatigue and cramps. Mugwort is one of the nine herbs invoked in the pagan Anglo-Saxon Nine Herbs Charm, recorded in the 10th century in the Lacnunga. Grieve's Modern Herbal (1931) states that "in the Middle Ages, the plant was known as , it being believed that John the Baptist wore a girdle of it in the wilderness...a crown made from its sprays was worn on St. John's Eve to gain security from evil possession, and in Holland and Germany one of its names is 'St. John's plant', because of the belief that – if gathered on St. John's Eve – it gave protection against diseases and misfortunes."

In the Isle of Man, mugwort is known as bollan bane, and is still worn on the lapel at the Tynwald Day celebrations, which also have strong associations with St John. China
There are several references to the Chinese using mugwort in cuisine. The famous Chinese poet Su Shi in the 11th century mentioned it in one of his poems. There are even older poems and songs that can be tracked back to 3 BC. It was often called  () or  () in Mandarin. Mugwort can be prepared as a cold dish or can be stir-fried with fresh or smoked meat. The Hakka Taiwanese also use it to make chhú-khak-ké (), doughy sweet dumplings. Mugwort is also used as a flavoring and colorant for a seasonal rice dish. In traditional Chinese medicine, mugwort is used in a pulverized and aged form – called  in English (from Japanese mogusa) – to perform moxibustion, that is, to burn on specific acupuncture points on the patient's body to achieve therapeutic effects. There is a belief that moxibustion of mugwort is effective at increasing the cephalic positioning of fetuses who were in a breech position before the intervention. A Cochrane review in 2012 found that moxibustion may be beneficial in reducing the need for ECV, but stressed a need for well-designed randomised controlled trials to evaluate this usage. Germany
In Germany, known as , it is mainly used to season goose, especially the roast goose traditionally eaten for Christmas. India 
The plant, called nāgadamanī in Sanskrit, is used in Ayurveda for cardiac complaints as well as feelings of unease, unwellness, and general malaise. Japan
Mugwort – or  – is used in a number of Japanese dishes, including yōkan, a dessert, or kusa mochi, also known as yomogi mochi. Mugwort rice cakes, or kusa mochi are used for Japanese sweets called daifuku (literally 'great luck'). To make these, take a small amount of mochi and stuff it or wrap it round a filling of fruit or sweetened adzuki (red bean) paste. Traditional daifuku can be pale green, white or pale pink and are covered in a fine layer of potato starch to prevent sticking. Mugwort is a vital ingredient of kusa mochi (rice cake with mugwort) and hishi mochi (lozenge rice cake), which is served at the Doll Festival in March. In addition, the fuzz on the underside of the mugwort leaves is gathered and used in moxibustion. In some regions in Japan, there is an ancient custom of hanging yomogi and iris leaves together outside homes in order to keep evil spirits away. It is said that evil spirits dislike their smell. The juice is said to be effective at stopping bleeding, lowering fevers and purging the stomach of impurities. It can also be boiled and taken to relieve colds and coughs. Korea
In both North and South Korea, mugwort –  () – is used in soups and salads. A traditional soup containing mugwort and clams is  (), made in spring from the young plants just before they bloom. Another dish is named  (), in which the mugwort is mixed with rice flour, sugar, salt and water and is then steamed. It is a common ingredient in rice cakes, teas, soups, and pancakes. Known as a blood cleanser, it is believed to have different medicinal properties depending on the region it is collected in. In some regions, mugwort thins the blood, while in another region, it is claimed to have hallucinogenic properties, causing some to pass out from direct skin contact (dermal absorption) with the active chemicals. For this reason, some Koreans also wear a silk sleeve when picking mugwort plants. Its primary medicinal use in Korea is in moxibustion, where Mugwort is burned on pressure points of the body, much like acupuncture. It is also said that the people of the Joseon Dynasty rinsed their mouths and bodies with mugwort water to clean themselves. North America 
Indigenous peoples of North America used mugwort for a number of medicinal purposes. Strong, bitter-tasting pasture sagewort tea was taken to treat colds and fevers.