[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: Characteristic mode analysis | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Characteristic mode analysis — Overview

to diagonalize the impedance operator (2) and demonstrates far field orthogonality, i.e., Modal quantities The modal currents can be used to evaluate antenna parameters in their modal form, for example: modal far-field ( — polarization, — direction), modal directivity , modal radiation efficiency , modal quality factor , modal impedance . These quantities can be used for analysis, feeding synthesis, radiator's shape optimization, or antenna characterization. Applications and further development 

The number of potential applications is enormous and still growing:
 antenna analysis and synthesis,
 design of MIMO antennas,
 compact antenna design (RFID, Wi-Fi),
 UAV antennas,
 selective excitation of chassis and platforms,
 model order reduction,
 bandwidth enhancement,
 nanotubes and metamaterials,
 validation of computational electromagnetics codes. The prospective topics include
 electrically large structures calculated using MLFMA,
 dielectrics,
 use of Combined Field Integral Equation,
 periodic structures,
 formulation for arrays. Software 

CM decomposition has recently been implemented in major electromagnetic simulators, namely in FEKO, CST-MWS, and WIPL-D. Other packages are about to support it soon, for example HFSS and CEM One. In addition, there is a plethora of in-house and academic packages which are capable of evaluating CM and many associated parameters. Alternative bases 

CM are useful to understand radiator's operation better. They have been used with great success for many practical purposes. However, it is important to stress that they are not perfect and it is often better to use other formulations such as energy modes, radiation modes, stored energy modes or radiation efficiency modes. References 

Electromagnetism
Electrodynamics
Antennas (radio)
Numerical differential equations
Computational electromagnetics