[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: Balestier | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Balestier — Overview

as a majority of such patrons are from the older generation. Publicity of Balestier Market Many of these architectural issues are left unresolved to retain the structural integrity and original ambience of the market. There are a handful of heritage trails and guides that introduce users to the market, promoting the last and only rural market of Singapore, in light of its historical and cultural significance. From a humble wet market for farmers to a food ration distribution centre and finally to a food centre selling local cuisine and delights, Balestier Market is one of the few markets that have survived through the rapid transformation of Singapore. Its value and identity as an example of vernacular infrastructural design, preserved for the newer generations as an educational tool to illustrate the phenomenon of wet markets and hawker centres in the past. Timeline of events in Balestier Market and surroundings
 1830s – Establishment of Balestier Plantation by Joseph Balestier 
 1849 – Balestier and his family leased a large plantation outside town
 The early 1890s – Establishment of Taro, lime and sugar cane plantations
 The 1920s – Balestier Market was constructed for the residents to sell their produce
 1925 – Rows of small huts with pitched zinc roof was then added to the market
 1942 – Balestier Market turned into food ration distribution centre during World War II
 1958 – The landscape of Balestier was changed into mixed tree cultivation, coconut plantation, and grassland. Sungei Whampoa had already been canalised
 1967 – Great changes in the landscape of Whampoa. Low dilapidated houses were pulled down, mainly high-rise housings were constructed
 1950s–1970s – public housing was developed by Singapore Improvement Trust and the Housing and Development Board in the Balestier area at St Michael's Estate
 1971 – Balestier Estate was built
 The 1980s – Demolition of Raymond market and construction of Whampoa Market
 1999- Renovated. 2004 – Many stallholders decided to retire when the market closed in 2004. Balestier Market bought over by Banquet Holdings. Underwent major development work and was converted into a food centre. References

External links
 Balestier : A Heritage Trail  by the Central Singapore Community Development Council. PDF guide here. Novena, Singapore
Kallang
Roads in Singapore
Protected areas of Singapore