[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Propulsion Mechanics | Topic: Aerojet M-1 | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Aerojet M-1 — Overview

for a number of first-stage designs, in place of the F-1 or the solids. For this role the specific impulse was dramatically reduced, and it appears that some consideration was given to various expanding nozzle designs to address this. M-1 development continued through this period, although as the Apollo program expanded, NASA started cutting funding to the M-1 project in order to complete Saturn-related developments first. In 1965, another NASA project studied advanced versions of the Saturn, replacing the cluster of five J-2s on the S-II second stage with one M-1, five J-2Ts (an improved version of the J-2 with an aerospike nozzle), or a high-pressure engine known as the HG-3, which would later become the direct predecessor of the Space Shuttle's SSME. By 1966 it was clear that present funding levels for NASA would not be maintained in the post-Apollo era. The Nova design studies ended that year, and the M-1 along with it. The last M-1 contract expired on August 24, 1965, although testing continued on existing funds until August 1966. Studies on the J-2T ended at the same time. Although the HG-3 was never built, its design formed the basis for the Space Shuttle Main Engine. The final report (1966) found:
 The feasibility of all major M-1 Engine components, except for the cooled chamber and the gas-cooled skirt, was demonstrated. Performance data were obtained and the mechanical integrity was established for the injector, the fuel turbopump, the oxidizer turbopump, and the gas generator assembly. Also, it was established that these components are satisfactory for use in a demonstration engine. Prototypes 
Over the three-year lifetime of the project, a total of eight combustion chambers were built (two of them uncooled test units), eleven gas generators, four oxygen pumps, as well as four hydrogen pumps that were in the process of being completed. Scaled down models of the pumps were used during design/development to 1963. Description
The M-1 used the gas-generator cycle, burning some of its liquid hydrogen and oxygen in a small combustor to provide hot gases for running the fuel pumps. In the case of the M-1, the hydrogen and oxygen turbopumps were completely separate, each using their own turbine, rather than running both off a common power shaft. The hydrogen and oxygen pumps were some of the most powerful ever built at the time, producing 75,000 horsepower for the former, and  for the latter. In most American designs, a gas-generator engine would dump the exhaust from the turbines overboard. In the case of the M-1, the resulting exhaust was relatively cool, and was instead directed into cooling pipes on the lower portion of the engine skirt. This meant that liquid hydrogen was needed for cooling only on the high-heat areas of the engine—the combustion chamber, nozzle and upper part of the skirt—reducing plumbing complexity considerably. The gas entered the skirt area at about , heating to about  before being dumped through a series of small nozzles at the end of the skirt. The exhaust added  of thrust. The engine was started by rotating the pumps to operating speed using helium gas stored in a separate high-pressure container. This started the fuel flow into the main engine and gas generator. The main engine was ignited by a spray of sparks directed into the combustion chamber from a pyrotechnic device. Shutdown was achieved by simply turning off the fuel flow to the gas generator, allowing the pumps to slow down on their own. The use of separate turbopumps and other components allowed the various parts of the M-1 to be built and tested individually. Combustion chamber and injectors 
 Thrust: 1.5 M lb (at 200,000 ft)
 Thrust chamber pressure: 1,000 psia, 1,200 psia for 1.8 M lb version
 Thrust chamber diameter: 42 inches
 Thrust chamber material: 200 tubes of 347 stainless steel, in an Inconel 718 bolt-on jacket. Injector type: coaxial
 Injector body material: 347 stainless steel
 Number of Injector elements: 1,200 to 3,000 anticipated
 Nozzle throat diameter:

Gas generator 
 Burns 110 lb/s (oxidiser:fuel, 0.8)
 Exhaust pressure: 1100 psi
 Exhaust temperature: 
 Gas generator exhaust fed back into lower nozzle for cooling

LOX turbopump 
 Axial flow
 RPM: 36,700
 Input pressure: 30 ft (of LOX)
 Pressure increase: 3,400 ft (of LOX); i.e., 1,700 psi
 Flow rate: up to 3,000 lb/sec, 2,921 lb/s nominal 
 Axial thrust load on bearings: in excess of 30,000 lb
 Bearings: oxygen lubricated, 440C stainless steel balls, with "glass filled Teflon cages"

LH turbopump 
 2 stage turbine with 10 stage axial flow pump

See also 
 Comparison of orbital rocket engines

References

Bibliography
 
 Mechanical design of the M-1 axial flow liquid hydrogen fuel pump
 Development of a 1,500,000-lb-thrust /nominal vacuum/ liquid hydrogen/liquid oxygen engine Final report, 30 Apr. 1962 - 4 Aug. 1966/ NASA document covering the M-1 Project from inception to completion. 406p

 Activation and initial test operations, large rocket engine - Turbopump test facilities Technology report Aerojet General report on the development of the test facilities for the M-1 Turbopump
 Activation and Initial Test Operations, Large Rocket Engine - Thrust Chamber Test Facilities Technology Report Aerojet General report on the development of the test facilities for the M-1 Thrust Chamber
 Development of LO2/LH2 Gas Generators for the M-1 Engine NASA document covering the development of the gas generators for the M-1 engine
 Development of liquid oxygen/liquid hydrogen thrust chamber for the M-1 engine NASA document covering the development of the M-1 thrust chamber
 Design study of modification of m-1 liquid hydrogen turbopump for use in nuclear reactor test facility
 Analytical and experimental vibration analysis of the turbine buckets for the M-1 liquid oxygen turbopump
 Economic analysis of Perlite versus super insulation in liquid hydrogen storage and run vessels for the M-1 Program
 Aerodynamic design and estimated performance of a two-stage Curtis turbine for the liquid oxygen turbopump of the M-1 engine
 Investigation of the starting characteristics of the M-1 rocket engine using the analog computer
 Analysis of the M-1 liquid hydrogen turbopump shaft critical whirling speed and bearing loads
 Cold-air performance evaluation of scale model oxidizer pump-drive turbine for the M-1 hydrogen-oxygen rocket engine.