[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Propulsion Mechanics | Topic: Flying Machines — W.J. Jackman (early aerodynamics) | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Flying Machines — W.J. Jackman (early aerodynamics) — Overview

the daunses of holy men, but altogeather contrariwise, they therein behaued themselues with such honor, fear, and reuerence towardes God, the whole matter it selfe beyng accompanied, with so great honesty and sobernesse, as nothinge more. And in which mens deede 3. pointes are to be considered and marked, which can not be at any hand found in the Prophane and wicked daunses of our tyme. First the occasions which thrust them forwarde to do it, was such a
great ioy which they had conceaued of the fauoure which God had shewed
to them, that they coulde not conceale, or kepe hidden, but needes
must manifest it, & let it abroad, by all the meanes and wayes that
they could inuent or deuise. [Sidenote: Psal. 68.]  Which thinge also
Dauid declareth in the sixty and eight psalme, saying, the Lord hath
geuen an argument, occasion or matter unto the women, who also haue
song accordingly: It was then a solomne (as a man would say) or
publicke thankes geuing, which they rendred, or gaue unto God, singing
or setting forth him to be the author of their deliuerance. What
fellowship, agreement, or likenes, can there bee, between the daunce
of these holy fathers, and these which wee behold nowe at this day
among christians. Is it a question when men daunce to acknowledge or
confesse the graces & goodnesses of God, to thanke him therfore,
reioicing themselues in him: When the lusty and fyne man should holde
a young damosel, or a woman by the hand, and keeping his measures he
shal remoue himselfe, whirle about, & shake his legges alofte (which
the daunsers call crosse capring) for pleasure, doth not she in the
meane while make a good threede, playing at the Moris on her behalfe:
but I pray you: what can ther by there of God, of his worde, of of
honestye in such folishnes: I holde my tounge, that is, I speake
nothing of their wordes, amorous deuises, or deuises of loue, wanton
communications or speeches or markes only knowen to the Ladye, or
Gentlewoman. It is true, that a man will say to me, that he must
reioyce and be mery, which thing also I graunt, but yet not with a
worldly, dissolute, and leuse ioy. The seconde pointe is, that euen as the people of Israell were
instructed in the seruice of God by very many cerimonies, and outward
manners or fashions, so when they would honor him, and geue him some
duety which they did owe, they did not content themselues to do it
with the harte, and with the mouth, but by and by they added, and
ioyned there withall some outwarde gestures, to witnes that, which was
within. Euen unto this present or hetherto we haue founde very little
affinitye or agreement betweene the daunses of the auncient
patriarches, and of good and religious people, and these, which we use
at this present, or in these dayes. It is certaine and true, that the daunsers of our tyme would very
fayne make themselues equall with them, and be in the selfe same
degree of honor: sauing notwithstanding, that they content not them
selues to haue a shameles and villanous harte, but they will also
discouer and lay open their own shame & villany, by dissolute
gestures. The third and last poynt sheweth us the fashion of the nations or
people of the East, the outward gestures, and custome receaued among
them, contrary herein to the westerne people. The reason is because
euery nation hath alwayes some proper and particuler inclination,
which another hath not. Moreouer those which draw nigh unto the East
and South, are by reason of the heate, mor easie to moue themselues,
and consequently to make or shew gestures, then they are which be in
the East, or North who by reason of the cold be more heauy & weighty:
From whence it commeth, that the Italian in his communications or
speeches, but especially if he speake with an affection or good hart,
intermingleth and useth so many gestures, that if an English man
should see him a farre of, not hearing his words, would iudge him out
of his wit or els playing some comedy upon a scaffold. Let a man on the other side beholde an Almain or Germain in the
Pulpit, and hee would thinke him benummed, and impotent, or lame in
all his members or partes, of his bodie. And to confirme this, lett us beholde and call to remembraunce, how
the auncient Romains were remoued farr from the opinion and mind of
the Greks. These, that is the Greekes, esteemed daunsing verye much,
and all these which knew howe to helpe and comfort themselues with an
instrument of musicke. The other, that is the Romains made very small
account of both daunsyngs, and lesse of the daunsers themselues. Here
appeareth the difference of Climates, and of such as dwell under those
climates. From thence it commeth that the people of the East partes
did breake and rent in peeces their garmentes when they had
understanding of euil newes. Wherefore they did lye weltering and
tumblinge upon the ground, put on sackcloth, put on ashes, or dust
upon their heads, yea then, when they pretended to shew some
repentance, and to manifest or set out an inward greefe: all which
thinges would bee founde, and thought rediculous, foolish, and to bee
laughed at amonge nations & peoples, on this side of them: And if that
women should take tabourets in their handes, as we read that the women
of Israel haue done: would not men thinke that they were out of their
witt: which notwihstanding was not found in thought straung among the
Israelites, because this was the custome of the nation and people.