[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: biomaterial implant osseointegration titanium clin | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: biomaterial implant osseointegration titanium clinical]

15. Implant Dent. 2015 Aug;24(4):441-7. doi: 10.1097/ID.0000000000000258.

Rapid Osseointegration of Titanium Implant With Innovative Nanoporous Surface 
Modification: Animal Model and Clinical Trial.

Huang MS(1), Chen LK, Ou KL, Cheng HY, Wang CS.

Author information:
(1)*Researcher, Research Center for Biomedical Devices and Prototyping 
Production, Taipei Medical University, Taipei, Taiwan; Director, Department of 
Dentistry, Taipei Medical University-Shuang-Ho Hospital, Taipei, Taiwan. 
†Director, Department of Dentistry, Lo-Hsu Foundation Inc., Lotung Poh-Ai 
Hospital, Yilan, Taiwan. ‡Chairman, Research Center for Biomedical Implants and 
Microsurgery Devices, Taipei Medical University, Taipei, Taiwan; Chairman, 
Graduate Institute of Biomedical Materials and Engineering, Taipei Medical 
University, Taipei, Taiwan; Dean, Collage of Oral Medicine, Taipei Medical 
University, Taipei, Taiwan. §Researcher, Research Center for Biomedical Devices 
and Prototyping Production, Taipei Medical University, Taipei, Taiwan; 
Researcher, Research Center for Biomedical Implants and Microsurgery Devices, 
Taipei Medical University, Taipei, Taiwan; Researcher, Graduate Institute of 
Biomedical Materials and Engineering, Taipei Medical University, Taipei, Taiwan. 
‖Director, Research Center for Biomedical Devices and Prototyping Production, 
Taipei Medical University, Taipei, Taiwan; Lecturer, School of Dentistry, 
College of Oral Medicine, Taipei Medical University, Taipei, Taiwan.

OBJECTIVES: SLAffinity is the hybrid topography consisting of micropits and 
nanoporous TiO2 layers through electrochemical oxidation to mimic the natural 
bony environment. The aim of this study was to examine the rate of 
osseointegration in animal models and to further investigate the stability for 
implants with SLAffinity-treated surface in the clinical trial.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Implants were installed in the mandibular canine-premolar 
area of 12 miniature pigs. Each pig received 2 implants with the same shapes but 
with different chemical surfaces. In the clinical trial, 25 patients were 
included. Each patient received 1 SLAffinity-treated implant on the posterior 
area of either arch. Resonance frequency analysis and computed tomography were 
assessed weekly over the first 12 weeks after implant placement.
RESULTS: The results found that surface treatment did affect the bone-to-implant 
contact (BIC) significantly. Comparison of BIC at 3 weeks in animal study showed 
that the SLAffinity-treated implants presented significantly higher values than 
machine surface implants. SLAffinity-treated implants also proved clinically 
successful through 12 months, ready for prosthodontic restoration.
CONCLUSION: The effect of SLAffinity treatments enhanced osseointegration 
significantly, especially at early stages of bone healing. Clinical trial 
finding, furthermore, ensured that the SLAffinity treatment was a reliable 
surface modification alternative.

DOI: 10.1097/ID.0000000000000258
PMID: 25946663 [Indexed for MEDLINE]