[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: traditional Chinese medicine herbs mechanism actio | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: traditional Chinese medicine herbs mechanism action]

59. Phytomedicine. 2024 Jul;129:155623. doi: 10.1016/j.phymed.2024.155623. Epub
2024  Apr 17.

Detoxification and underlying mechanisms towards toxic alkaloids by Traditional 
Chinese Medicine processing: A comprehensive review.

Shan Q(1), Yu W(2), Xu Q(3), Liu R(3), Ying S(3), Dong J(3), Bao Y(3), Lyu Q(3), 
Shi C(4), Xia J(3), Tang J(3), Kuang H(3), Wang K(5), Tian G(6), Cao G(7).

Author information:
(1)School of Pharmacy, Zhejiang Chinese Medical University, Hangzhou 310053, 
China. Electronic address: shanqiyuan@zcmu.edu.cn.
(2)School of Pharmacy, Zhejiang Chinese Medical University, Hangzhou 310053, 
China; Clinical Research Unit, Changhai Hospital, Naval Medical University, 
Shanghai 200433, China.
(3)School of Pharmacy, Zhejiang Chinese Medical University, Hangzhou 310053, 
China.
(4)Department of Clinical Pharmacy, Key Laboratory of Clinical Cancer 
Pharmacology and Toxicology Research of Zhejiang Province, Affiliated Hangzhou 
First People's Hospital, School of Medicine, Westlake University, Hangzhou, 
China.
(5)School of Pharmacy, Zhejiang Chinese Medical University, Hangzhou 310053, 
China. Electronic address: kuilongwang@zcmu.edu.cn.
(6)School of Pharmacy, Zhejiang Chinese Medical University, Hangzhou 310053, 
China. Electronic address: tg@zcmu.edu.cn.
(7)School of Pharmacy, Zhejiang Chinese Medical University, Hangzhou 310053, 
China. Electronic address: caogang33@163.com.

BACKGROUND: Alkaloids have attracted enduring interest worldwide due to their 
remarkable therapeutic effects, including analgesic, anti-inflammatory, and 
anti-tumor properties, thus offering a rich source for lead compound design and 
new drug discovery. However, some of these alkaloids possess intrinsic toxicity. 
Processing (Paozhi) is a pre-treatment step before the application of herbal 
medicines in traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) clinics, which has been employed 
for centuries to mitigate the toxicity of alkaloid-rich TCMs.
PURPOSE: To explore the toxicity phenotypes, chemical basis, mode of action, 
detoxification processing methods, and underlying mechanisms, we can gain 
crucial insights into the safe and rational use of these toxic alkaloid-rich 
herbs. Such insights have the great potential to offer new strategies for drug 
discovery and development, ultimately improving the quality of life for millions 
of people.
METHODS: Literatures published or early accessed until December 31, 2023, were 
retrieved from databases including PubMed, Web of Science, and CNKI. The 
following keywords, such as "toxicity", "alkaloid", "detoxification", 
"processing", "traditional Chinese medicine", "medicinal plant", and "plant", 
were used in combination or separately for screening.
RESULTS: Toxicity of alkaloids in TCM includes hepatotoxicity, nephrotoxicity, 
neurotoxicity, cardiotoxicity, and other forms of toxicity, primarily induced by 
pyrrolizidines, quinolizidines, isoquinolines, indoles, pyridines, terpenoids, 
and amines. Factors such as whether the toxic-alkaloid enriched part is limited 
or heat-sensitive, and whether toxic alkaloids are also therapeutic components, 
are critical for choosing appropriate detoxification processing methods. 
Mechanisms of alkaloid detoxification includes physical removal, chemical 
decomposition or transformation, as well as biological modifications.
CONCLUSION: Through this exploration, we review toxic alkaloids and the 
mechanisms underlying their toxicity, discuss methods to reduce toxicity, and 
unravel the intricate mechanisms behind detoxification. These offers insights 
into the quality control of herbs containing toxic alkaloids, safe and rational 
use of alkaloid-rich TCMs in clinics, new strategies for drug discovery and 
development, and ultimately helping improve the quality of life for millions of 
people.

Copyright © 2024 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier GmbH.. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.phymed.2024.155623
PMID: 38703661 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare no conflict of interest.