[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: magnetic resonance spectroscopy metabolite brain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: magnetic resonance spectroscopy metabolite brain]

70. Am J Vet Res. 2015 Feb;76(2):129-41. doi: 10.2460/ajvr.76.2.129.

Regional metabolite concentrations in the brain of healthy dogs measured by use 
of short echo time, single voxel proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy at 3.0 
Tesla.

Carrera I(1), Richter H, Meier D, Kircher PR, Dennler M.

Author information:
(1)Clinic of Diagnostic Imaging, Vetsuisse Faculty, University of Zurich, 8057 
Zurich, Switzerland., Graduate School for Cellular and Biomedical Sciences, 
University of Bern, 3012 Bern, Switzerland.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate regional differences of relative metabolite 
concentrations in the brain of healthy dogs with short echo time, single voxel 
proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy ((1)H MRS) at 3.0 T.
ANIMALS: 10 Beagles.
PROCEDURES: Short echo time, single voxel (1)H MRS was performed at the level of 
the right and left basal ganglia, right and left thalamus, right and left 
parietal lobes, occipital lobe, and cerebellum. Data were analyzed with an 
automated fitting method (linear combination model). Metabolite concentrations 
relative to water content were obtained, including N-acetyl aspartate, total 
choline, creatine, myoinositol, the sum of glutamine and glutamate 
(glutamine-glutamate complex), and glutathione. Metabolite ratios with creatine 
as the reference metabolite were calculated. Concentration differences between 
right and left hemispheres and sexes were evaluated with a Wilcoxon signed rank 
test and among various regions of the brain with an independent t test and 1-way 
ANOVA.
RESULTS: No significant differences were detected between sexes and right and 
left hemispheres. All metabolites, except the glutamine-glutamate complex and 
glutathione, had regional concentrations that differed significantly. The 
creatine concentration was highest in the basal ganglia and cerebellum and 
lowest in the parietal lobes. The N-acetyl aspartate concentration was highest 
in the parietal lobes and lowest in the cerebellum. Total choline concentration 
was highest in the basal ganglia and lowest in the occipital lobe.
CONCLUSIONS AND CLINICAL RELEVANCE: Metabolite concentrations differed among 
brain parenchymal regions in healthy dogs. This study may provide reference 
values for clinical and research studies involving (1)H MRS performed at 3.0 T.

DOI: 10.2460/ajvr.76.2.129
PMID: 25629910 [Indexed for MEDLINE]