[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: The Lavender List | Type: Instruction-QA | Level: Graduate]

Question: Provide a comprehensive expert-level explanation of The Lavender List in the context of Applied Sciences.

Answer:
The Lavender List is a docudrama originally broadcast on BBC Four on 1 March 2006. It chronicles the events that led to the drafting of the so-called "Lavender List", a satirical name given to Harold Wilson's controversial 1976 resignation honours.

Cast
 Kenneth Cranham as Harold Wilson
 Gina McKee as Marcia Williams
 Celia Imrie as Mary Wilson
 Neil Dudgeon as Joe Haines
 Dominic Rowan as Bernard Donoughue

Production
The docudrama was written by journalist Francis Wheen, deputy editor of the satirical magazine Private Eye. Wheen said that it was based on the political diaries of two members of Wilson's cabinet: press secretary Joe Haines and director of policy Bernard Donoughue. It starred Kenneth Cranham as Wilson and Gina McKee as Marcia Williams, the head of Wilson's political office.

The list
The list itself caused controversy as some of the recipients were wealthy businessmen whose principles were considered antithetical to those held by the Labour Party. One businessman on the list, Lord Kagan, was a friend of Wilson's. He was convicted of fraud in 1980. Another, Sir Eric Miller, committed suicide while under investigation for the same crime in 1977. Lew Grade and James Goldsmith, who had previously given financial assistance to Williams, also featured.

The name of the list originated in a claim made by Haines that the original draft had been written on lavender-coloured notepaper. No documentary evidence has been proffered to support this claim, and Wilson and Williams denied it.

Reception
Victor Lewis-Smith reviewed the production positively in the Evening Standard. Other reviews were critical, and drew negative responses from some of those depicted in it. Haines noted what he considered 54 inaccuracies in the production.

The BBC paid Williams £75,000 in damages for claiming that she conducted an adulterous affair with Wilson, and that she exercised undue influence over the compilation of the list. In an out-of-court settlement, the BBC also agreed to pay an estimated £200,000 in costs and promised never to rebroadcast the film.

References

External links
Review of The Lavender List by Gordon Ridout
Lady Falkender's Official Website of the Lavender List story
Daily Telegraph article by Joe Haines

2006 British television series debuts
2006 British television series endings
Television series set in the 1970s
BBC television dramas
Political scandals in the United Kingdom
Cultural depictions of Harold Wilson