[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: traditional Chinese medicine herbs mechanism actio | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: traditional Chinese medicine herbs mechanism action]

32. Front Pharmacol. 2016 Dec 1;7:469. doi: 10.3389/fphar.2016.00469. eCollection
 2016.

Chinese Herbal Medicine on Cardiovascular Diseases and the Mechanisms of Action.

Liu C(1), Huang Y(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Preventive Medicine, Basic Medical College, Zhejiang Chinese 
Medical University Hangzhou, China.
(2)School of Biomedical Sciences, Institute of Vascular Medicine and Li Ka Shing 
Institute of Health Sciences, Chinese University of Hong Kong Hong Kong, China.

Cardiovascular diseases are the principal cause of death worldwide. The 
potentially serious adverse effects of therapeutic drugs lead to growing 
awareness of the role of Chinese herbal medicine in the treatment of 
cardiovascular diseases. Chinese herbal medicine has been widely used in many 
countries especially in China from antiquity; however, the mechanisms by which 
herbal medicine acts in the prevention and treatment of cardiovascular diseases 
are far from clear. In this review, we briefly describe the characteristics of 
Chinese herbal medicine by comparing with western medicine. Then we summarize 
the formulae and herbs/natural products applied in the clinic and animal studies 
being sorted according to the specific cardiovascular diseases. Most 
importantly, we elaborate the existing investigations into mechanisms by which 
herbal compounds act at the cellular levels, including vascular smooth muscle 
cells, endothelial cells, cardiomyocytes and immune cells. Future research 
should focus on well-designed clinic trial, in-depth mechanic study, 
investigations on side effects of herbs and drug interactions. Studies on 
developing new agents with effectiveness and safety from traditional Chinese 
medicine is a promising way for prevention and treatment of patients with 
cardiovascular diseases.

DOI: 10.3389/fphar.2016.00469
PMCID: PMC5130975
PMID: 27990122