[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Propulsion Mechanics | Topic: Ammonium perchlorate composite propellant | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Ammonium perchlorate composite propellant — Overview

Ammonium perchlorate composite propellant (APCP) is a solid-propellant rocket fuel. It differs from many traditional solid rocket propellants such as black powder or zinc-sulfur, not only in chemical composition and overall performance but also by the nature of how it is processed. APCP is cast into shape, as opposed to powder pressing as with black powder. This provides manufacturing regularity and repeatability, which are necessary requirements for use in the aerospace industry. Uses 
Ammonium perchlorate composite propellant is typically for aerospace rocket propulsion where simplicity and reliability are desired and specific impulses (depending on the composition and operating pressure) of  are adequate. Because of these performance attributes, APCP has been used in the Space Shuttle Solid Rocket Boosters, aircraft ejection seats, and specialty space exploration applications such as NASA's Mars Exploration Rover descent stage retrorockets. In addition, the high-power rocketry community regularly uses APCP in the form of commercially available propellant "reloads", as well as single-use motors. Experienced experimental and amateur rocketeers also often work with APCP, processing the APCP themselves. Composition

Overview 
Ammonium perchlorate composite propellant is a composite propellant, meaning that it has both fuel and oxidizer combined into an homogeneous mixture, in this case with a rubbery binder as part of the fuel. The propellant is most often composed of ammonium perchlorate (AP), an elastomer binder such as hydroxyl-terminated polybutadiene (HTPB) or polybutadiene acrylic acid acrylonitrile prepolymer (PBAN), powdered metal (typically aluminium), and various burn rate catalysts. In addition, curing additives induce elastomer binder cross-linking to solidify the propellant before use. The perchlorate serves as the oxidizer, while the binder and aluminium serve as the fuel. Burn rate catalysts determine how quickly the mixture burns. The resulting cured propellant is fairly elastic (rubbery), which also helps limit fracturing during accumulated damage (such as shipping, installing, cutting) and high acceleration applications such as hobby or military rocketry. This includes the Space Shuttle missions, in which APCP was used for the two SRBs. The composition of APCP can vary significantly depending on the application, intended burn characteristics, and constraints such as nozzle thermal limitations or specific impulse (Isp). Rough mass proportions (in high-performance configurations) tend to be about 70/15/15 AP/HTPB/Al, though fairly high performance "low-smoke" can have compositions of roughly 80/18/2 AP/HTPB/Al. While metal fuel is not required in APCP, most formulations include at least a few percent as a combustion stabilizer, propellant opacifier (to limit excessive infrared propellant preheating), and increase the temperature of the combustion gases (increasing Isp). Common species 
Oxidizers:
 Ammonium perchlorate as the primary oxidizer
 Metal-oxide catalysts as thermite oxidizers

High energy fuels:
 Aluminium (high performance, most common)
 Magnesium (medium performance)
 Zinc (low performance)

Low energy fuels acting as binders:
 Hydroxyl-terminated polybutadiene (HTPB)
 Carboxyl-terminated polybutadiene (CTPB)
 Polybutadiene acrylonitrile (PBAN)

Special considerations 
Though increasing the ratio of metal-fuel to oxidizer up to the stoichiometric point increases the combustion temperature, the presence of an increasing molar fraction of metal oxides, particularly aluminium oxide (Al2O3) precipitating from the gaseous solution creates globules of solids or liquids that slow down the flow velocity as the mean molecular mass of the flow increases. In addition, the chemical composition of the gases changes, varying the effective heat capacity of the gas. Because of these phenomena, there exists an optimal non-stoichiometric composition for maximizing Isp of roughly 16% by mass, assuming the combustion reaction goes to completion inside the combustion chamber. The combustion time of the aluminium particles in the hot combustion gas varies depending on aluminium particle size and shape. In small APCP motors with high aluminium content, the residence time of the combustion gases does not allow for full combustion of the aluminium and thus a substantial fraction of the aluminium is burned outside the combustion chamber, leading to decreased performance. This effect is often mitigated by reducing aluminium particle size, inducing turbulence (and therefore a long characteristic path length and residence time), and/or by reducing the aluminium content to ensure a combustion environment with a higher net oxidizing potential, ensuring more complete aluminium combustion. Aluminium combustion inside the motor is the rate-limiting pathway since the liquid-aluminium droplets (even still liquid at temperatures 3000 K) limit the reaction to a heterogeneous globule interface, making the surface area to volume ratio an important factor in determining the combustion residence time and required combustion chamber size/length.