[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: pharmacognosy medicinal plant active compound isol | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: pharmacognosy medicinal plant active compound isolation]

26. Yakugaku Zasshi. 2007 Oct;127(10):1593-620. doi: 10.1248/yakushi.127.1593.

[Pharmacognosical study during 40 years].

[Article in Japanese]

Shoyama Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Kyushu University, 3-1-1 Maidashi, 
Higashi-ku, Fukuoka 812-8582, Japan. shoyama@niu.ac.jp

In order to quality control for medicinal plants such as Aconitum charmicaelii, 
Rhemannia glutinosa, Atractyrodes lancea, Pinellia ternata, Panax species and 
Gentiana scabra were clonally micropropagated by tip tissue culture and 
embryogenetic techniques. Monoclonal antibodies against the bioactive compounds 
contained in the crude drugs were prepared and set up the ELISA as a high 
sensitive and quick determination method. A newly developed eastern blotting 
methodology can stain typically the only antigen molecule and the related 
compounds having a same aglycone. Knockout extract can be prepared by using an 
immunoaffinity column conjugated with monoclonal antibody, and its importance 
has been discussed. Single chain fragment-variable gene against solamargine was 
cloned and transformed to a host plant, Solanum chasianum resulting in the 
increase of antigen molecule as 2.5 to 3 times. Three biosynthetic enzymes 
regarding marihuana compounds, THCA-, CBDA-, CBCA-synthases were isolated. 
THCAsynthase was cloned, over expressed and confirmed its characteristics 
including FAD combining enzyme, and finally determined the structure by X-ray 
analysis. The distribution of THCAsynthase was also investigated using its and 
GFP hybrid gene. We found new functions for saffron like improving learning and 
memory and LTP for blocking by ethanol. A folk medicine in Taiwan, Anoectochilus 
formosanus was propagated in vitro and investigated opening new pharmacological 
activities in lipid metabolism.

DOI: 10.1248/yakushi.127.1593
PMID: 17917420 [Indexed for MEDLINE]