[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Complex Circuit Systems | Topic: Microchip Technology | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Microchip Technology — Overview

controllers and security products. Networking Ethernet interface products Microchip Technology Ethernet products include Ethernet PHYs controllers for media-independent interface (MMI) interfacing, switches, controllers and bridge devices. Wireless products Microchip Technology's offerings focus on lower-power operation designed for sensing or command and control products. Wireless products support Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, LoRa technology, IEEE 802.15.4 (e.g., Zigbee and MiWi wireless networking protocols) and proprietary 2.4 GHz and sub-GHz communication. Power ICs 
Microchip Technology produce a wide range of Power Management Integrated Circuits (PMICs). Product milestones
In April 2009, Microchip Technology announced the nanoWatt XLP microcontrollers, claiming the world's lowest sleep current. Microchip Technology had sold more than 6 billion microcontrollers as of 2009. As of 2011, Microchip Technology ships over a billion processors every year. In September 2011, Microchip Technology shipped the 10 billionth PIC microcontroller. Acquisitions

KeeLoq technology and patents
KeeLoq technology enhances security in wireless and remote controlled systems through the use of infrared, radio frequency, microwave transmission and secure smart cards, and may be used to enable keyless vehicle entry, garage doors openers, home security systems, pre-paid phone cards, electronic tagging, passive transponders, point of sale readers, and other applications. The KeeLoq technology, patents and marketing rights were acquired by Microchip Technology on November 20, 1995, from Nanoteq of South Africa for $10M in cash. Microchip Technology used the purchase to create the Secure Data Products Group. Puyallup wafer facility
The Puyallup wafer facility located in Puyallup, Washington (near Tacoma) was a 92-acre semiconductor manufacturing complex owned by Matsushita Electric Industrial Company. Matsushita Electric purchased the facility in 1993 and ceased production in December 1998. Microchip Technology announced the execution of an agreement to buy the complex on May 24, 2000. Microchip Technology expected to hire 100 employees before year end and 1,000 employees in total. The new facility was expected to double Microchip Technology's manufacturing capacity and support about $1.5bn in annual sales. The $80M acquisition was completed on July 26, 2000. Microchip Technology's plans were never realized due to the early 2000s recession. As a result, the company put the facility up for sale for $94M. Microchip Technology announced the sale of the Puyallup facility, which had become known as Fab 3, on October 19, 2007, for $30M from an unsolicited offer. TelCom Semiconductor
TelCom Semiconductor was a publicly traded company out of Mountain View, California that offered analog and mixed-signal products for a variety of applications, including power and thermal management. TelCom Semiconductor was spun out of Teledyne Industries in 1993 through a management buyout. Microchip Technology announced plans to purchase TelCom Semiconductor on October 27, 2000, in an all stock deal for $300M. The acquisition was intended to accelerate Microchip Technology's stand-alone analog integrated circuit offerings and enable the company to attach additional analog products to microcontroller sales. TelCom Semiconductor employed about 300 employees and, in 1999, posted $57.3M in revenue and $13.1 in net income. Hampshire Company
Hampshire Company was a privately held company that sold large-format universal touch screen controller electronics and related software. Microchip Technology announced the acquisition of Hampshire Company on October 15, 2008. The terms of the deal are confidential. The acquisition was intended to extend Microchip Technology's expertise in universal touch screen controller technology and accelerate R&D efforts. HI-TECH Software
HI-TECH Software was an Australian-based company that provides ANSI C compilers and development tools. Founded in 1984, the company is best known for its HI-TECH C PRO compilers with whole-program compilation technology, or Omniscient Code Generation (OCG). HI-TECH Software was bought by Microchip on 20 February 2009, whereupon it refocused its development effort exclusively on supporting Microchip products. Supported manufacturers and architectures:
 Microchip PIC10, PIC12, PIC14, PIC16, PIC18, PIC24, PIC32 and dsPIC
 Cypress PSoC's
 Silicon Laboratories MCUs
 8051 MCUs
 Z80 for CP/M and Z80 cross compiler. ZeroG Wireless
ZeroG Wireless, founded by Thomas H. Lee, was a fabless semiconductor company from Sunnyvale, California that was privately held and developed low-power, embedded Wi-Fi chips. On February 17, 2009, a partnership between ZeroG Wireless and Microchip Technology was announced for the production of ZeroG development kits designed to provide Wi-Fi capabilities for Microchip Technology's PIC microcontrollers. Microchip Technology announced the acquisition of ZeroG Wireless on January 11, 2010, for an undisclosed amount.