[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Propulsion Mechanics | Topic: GTRE GTX-35VS Kaveri | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# GTRE GTX-35VS Kaveri — Overview

Institute (GFRI), Russia and flight test was successfully carried out up to maximum altitude and maximum forward speed of 0.7 Mach. Twenty Seven flights for 57 hours duration have been completed. DRDO demonstrated its technological capability in aero-engine technology. This has been a great achievement in the aerospace community of the country, when the first ever indigenously developed fighter aircraft engine was subjected to flight testing. Tacit knowledge acquired by the DRDO scientists during this project will also be applied for further aerospace technology. Kaveri spin-off engine can be used as propulsion system for Indian Unmanned Strike Air Vehicle (USAV). In January 2013, the GTRE director said that they are abandoning the plan for co-development with Snecma, but they still need an overseas partner, which will be selected through competitive bidding. In November 2014, The Defense Research and Development Organization (DRDO) decided to abandon the Kaveri engine (GTX-35VS ) programme due to its shortcomings. As per government statement in Rajya Sabha during Winter Session 2021, HAL Tejas FOC variant demands higher thrust which present Kaveri engine architecture is unable to provide hence will not be used. The engine did achieve higher Technology Readiness Level (TRL) in critical technology domains. There is proposal to jointly develop a new engine for HAL AMCA with the help of foreign partner using the know how from Kaveri engine programme. Foreign help
On 4 July 2016, according to Indian media report, France offered to invest EUR 1 billion to revive India's combat jet engine project, proposing a joint development plan that could see the stalled Kaveri gas turbine powering indigenous Tejas fighters by 2020. On 20 November 2016, DRDO Director General for Aeronautics Cluster C P Ramanarayanan confirmed that DRDO and French Snecma have tied up to revive Kaveri Engine as part of the offsets deal for 36 Rafale jet. It is expected that the engine would be integrated and tested in LCA Tejas by 2018. In 2018, La Tribune reported that French Snecma will help in production of the Kaveri by sharing M88's technology. Design
A low-bypass-ratio (BPR) afterburning turbofan engine featuring a six-stage core high-pressure (HP) compressor with variable inlet guide vanes (IGVs), a three-stage low-pressure (LP) compressor with transonic blading, an annular combustion chamber, and cooled single-stage HP and LP turbines. The development model is fitted with an advanced convergent-divergent ("con-di") variable nozzle, but the GTRE hopes to fit production Tejas aircraft with an axisymmetric, multi-axis thrust-vectoring nozzle to further enhance the LCA's agility. The core Turbojet engine of the Kaveri is the Kabini. The general arrangement of the Kaveri is very similar to other contemporary combat engines, such as the Eurojet EJ200, General Electric F414 and Snecma M88. It has a very low bypass ratio (0.16:1). Similar low amounts of bypass on earlier engines, required only for afterburner and nozzle cooling, introduced the term "'leaky' turbojet". The Kaveri engine has been specifically designed for the Indian operating environment, which ranges from hot desert to the highest mountain range in the world. The GTRE's design envisions achieving a fan pressure ratio of 4:1 and an overall pressure ratio of 27:1, which it believes will permit the Tejas to "supercruise" (cruise supersonically without the use of the afterburner). Plans also already exist for derivatives of the Kaveri, including a non-afterburning version for an advanced jet trainer, and a high-bypass-ratio turbofan based on the Kabini core. Another concept being considered is an enlarged version of the Tejas which is being called Tejas MK2 with two engines fitted with fully vectoring nozzles, which might make the vertical tail redundant (the Tejas has no horizontal tail). An indigenous Full-Authority Digital Engine Control (FADEC) unit, called Kaveri Digital Engine Control Unit (KADECU) has been developed by the Defence Avionics Research Establishment (DARE), Bangalore. The Combat Vehicles Research and Development Establishment (CVRDE) of Avadi was responsible for the design and development of the Tejas aircraft-mounted accessory gear box (AMAGB) and the power take-off (PTO) shaft. Applications
Plans are also already under way for derivatives of the Kaveri, including a non-afterburning version for an advanced jet trainer and a high-bypass-ratio turbofan based on the Kaveri core, named as Kabini. GTX-35VS Kaveri:
HAL AMCA
HAL TEDBF
 Derivatives:
Kaveri Marine Gas Turbine (KMGT), a recently developed derivative of the GTX-35VS Kaveri engine for ships. Ghatak, a Kaveri derivative to be developed to power India's Unmanned Combat Air Vehicle DRDO Ghatak. Specification (GTX-35VS Kaveri)

Engine cycle
Airflow:  per second
Bypass ratio: 0.16:1
Overall pressure ratio: 21.5:1
LP compressor pressure ratio: 3.4:1
HP compressor pressure ratio: 6.4:1
Turbine entry temperature:

See also
 List of aircraft engine manufacturers
 List of aircraft engines

References

External links 

 Kaveri product detail on DRDO website
 Kaveri engine gathers momentum

Low-bypass turbofan engines
1990s turbofan engines