[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: curcumin anti-inflammatory clinical trial randomiz | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: curcumin anti-inflammatory clinical trial randomized]

93. Nutrients. 2024 Dec 14;16(24):4321. doi: 10.3390/nu16244321.

Potential Effects of Bioactive Compounds of Plant-Based Foods and Medicinal 
Plants in Chronic Kidney Disease and Dialysis: A Systematic Review.

Josa E(1), Barril G(2), Ruperto M(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Nutrition and Bromatology, Universidad Complutense de Madrid, 
Av. Complutense, s/n, Moncloa-Aravaca, 28040 Madrid, Spain.
(2)Fundación Investigaciones Biomédicas, C. Pollensa, 2, Las Rozas de Madrid, 
28290 Madrid, Spain.
(3)Department of Pharmaceutical & Health Sciences, School of Pharmacy, 
Universidad San Pablo-CEU, CEU Universities, Urbanización Montepríncipe, 28660 
Madrid, Spain.

BACKGROUND: The bioactive components of plant foods and medicinal plants have 
attracted interest due to their potential impact on the progression of chronic 
kidney disease (CKD) and outcomes.
OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to conduct a critical and quantitative systematic 
review of randomized clinical trials (RCTs) investigating the potential effects 
of selected phytochemicals from plant-based foods and medicinal plants in CKD 
and dialysis patients.
METHODS: The review included studies that related plant-based bioactive 
compounds (curcumin, propolis, sulforaphane, betalain, catechins, rhein, emodin, 
aloe-emodin, flavonoids, and triptolide) and medicinal plants (green tea, 
rhubarb, Astragalus membranaceus, and Tripterygium wilfordii Hook F) in CKD and 
dialysis patients. A literature search was conducted in PubMed, LILACS, Embase, 
Scopus, and WOS between December 2022 and October 2024. This review was 
performed according to the PRISMA flowchart and was registered in PROSPERO 
(595162).
RESULTS: In the eight RCTs conducted with curcumin, anti-inflammatory, 
antioxidant, and microbiota-modulating properties were reported. As for 
propolis, in three RCTs, anti-inflammatory, anti-proteinuric, and 
renal-protective properties were reported. Sulforaphane in one RCT showed 
antioxidant and cardiovascular benefits, and in another RCT no effects were 
observed. In one RCT, genistein was shown to be a potential anti-inflammatory 
agent and improved nutritional status. Allicin in two RCTs showed 
cardioprotective, antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, and lipid-lowering effects. 
Finally, beetroot showed a vasodilator effect in one RCT. As for the medicinal 
plants, green tea, rhubarb, Astragalus membranaceus, and Tripterygium Wilfordii 
Hook F, in six RCTs they showed antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, 
cardioprotective, antiproteinuric, and renoprotective properties.
CONCLUSIONS: These results suggest that bioactive compounds of plant-based foods 
and medicinal plants have promising effects in terms of preventing or treating 
CKD progression and appear to improve inflammation and antioxidant capacity and 
support cardiovascular benefits and renoprotective effects; however, it is 
recommended that further studies be carried out.

DOI: 10.3390/nu16244321
PMCID: PMC11678173
PMID: 39770942 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.