[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Complex Circuit Systems | Topic: SLIM: Simultaneous Logic-in-Memory Computing Exploiting Bila | Type: OpenAlex-OA | Level: Graduate]

[OpenAlex | Circuit Engineering | Year: 2020 | Citations: 1442]

Title: SLIM: Simultaneous Logic-in-Memory Computing Exploiting Bilayer Analog OxRAM Devices

Abstract:
von Neumann architecture based computers isolate computation and storage (i.e. data is shuttled between computation blocks (processor) and memory blocks). The to-and-fro movement of data leads to a fundamental limitation of modern computers, known as the Memory wall. Logic in-Memory (LIM)/In-Memory Computing (IMC) approaches aim to address this bottleneck by directly computing inside memory units thereby eliminating energy-intensive and time-consuming data movement. Several recent works in literature, propose realization of logic function(s) directly using arrays of emerging resistive memory devices (example- memristors, RRAM/ReRAM, PCM, CBRAM, OxRAM, STT-MRAM etc.), rather than using conventional transistors for computing. The logic/embedded-side of digital systems (like processors, micro-controllers) can greatly benefit from such LIM realizations. However, the pure storage-side of digital systems (example SSDs, enterprise storage etc.) will not benefit much from such LIM approaches as when memory arrays are used for logic they lose their core functionality of storage. Thus, there is the need for an approach complementary to existing LIM techniques, that's more beneficial for the storage-side of digital systems; one that gives compute capability to memory arrays not at the cost of their existing stored states. Fundamentally, this would require memory nanodevice arrays that are capable of storing and computing simultaneously. In this paper, we propose a novel 'Simultaneous Logic in-Memory' (SLIM) methodology which is complementary to existing LIM approaches in literature. Through extensive experiments we demonstrate novel SLIM bitcells (1T-1R/2T-1R) comprising non-filamentary bilayer analog OxRAM devices with NMOS transistors. Proposed bitcells are capable of implementing both Memory and Logic operations simultaneously. Detailed programming scheme, array level implementation, and controller architecture are also proposed. Furthermore, to study the impact of proposed SLIM approach for real-world implementations, we performed analysis for two applications: (i) Sobel Edge Detection, and (ii) Binary Neural Network- Multi layer Perceptron (BNN-MLP). By performing all computations in SLIM bitcell array, huge Energy Delay Product (EDP) savings of ≈75× for 1T-1R (≈40× for 2T-1R) SLIM bitcell were observed for edge-detection application while EDP savings of ≈3.5× for 1T-1R (≈1.6× for 2T-1R) SLIM bitcell were observed for BNN-MLP application respectively, in comparison to conventional computing. EDP savings owing to reduction in data transfer between CPU ↔ memory is observed to be ≈780× (for both SLIM bitcells).