[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: optical coherence tomography retinal diagnosis | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: optical coherence tomography retinal diagnosis]

15. Dis Markers. 2021 Oct 13;2021:3510036. doi: 10.1155/2021/3510036. eCollection
 2021.

Optical Coherence Tomography Angiography Characteristics Serve as Retinal Vein 
Occlusion Therapeutic Biomarkers for Dexamethasone Intravitreal Implant.

Shi K(1)(2)(3)(4), Sun X(1)(2)(3)(4), Zhang J(1)(2)(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Shanghai General Hospital, Shanghai Jiao Tong 
University, School of Medicine, Shanghai, China.
(2)National Clinical Research Center for Ophthalmic Diseases, Shanghai, China.
(3)Shanghai Key Laboratory of Fundus Diseases, Shanghai, China.
(4)Shanghai Engineering Center for Visual Science and Photomedicine, Shanghai, 
China.

BACKGROUND: Retinal vein occlusion (RVO) is the second most common 
vision-threatening retinal vascular disease. Intravitreal dexamethasone implant 
has been applied to treat macular edema secondary to RVO (RVO-ME). However, the 
alteration of morphologic features detected with optical coherence tomography 
angiography (OCTA) has not been fully studied in RVO-ME patients before and 
after the treatment.
OBJECTIVE: This study is aimed at identifying potential therapeutic targets in 
RVO with integrative bioinformatic analysis and compares the OCTA 
characteristics alterations in patients with RVO-ME receiving injection of 
dexamethasone intravitreal implant.
METHODS: Bioinformatic analysis was analyzed in GSE101398 dataset from the Gene 
Expression Omnibus database. Multiple functional enrichment analyses were 
performed, and protein-protein interaction network was constructed to visualize 
the key node genes. Eleven eyes with RVO-ME were examined with OCTA before and 
after intravitreal dexamethasone implant. The OCTA parameters, including macular 
thickness, vessel density, foveal avascular zone parameters, the number of 
hyperreflective foci (HRF), area of cystoid edema, and subretinal fluid (SRF), 
were compared. The correlation was analyzed between best-corrected visual acuity 
(BCVA) and OCTA parameters.
RESULTS: A total of 79 differentially expressed genes were identified. 
Functional enrichment analyses revealed the enriched inflammatory events in RVO. 
In RVO-ME, Pearson correlation revealed that baseline BCVA was positively 
correlated with the area of SRF and central macular thickness, while no 
correlation was detected between baseline BCVA and HRF number or the area of 
cystoid edema. The visual acuity improved, and the central macular thickness was 
decreased after intravitreal dexamethasone implant injection. Besides, the 
number of HRF, the area of cystoid edema, and SRF were significantly alleviated 
after dexamethasone intravitreal injection.
CONCLUSION: Retinal inflammation plays a crucial role in RVO pathogenesis. The 
imaging biomarkers of RVO including Müller glial intracellular edema, and 
retinal pigment epithelium dysfunction, could be assessed in OCTA and attenuated 
by intravitreal dexamethasone implant effectively.

Copyright © 2021 Ke Shi et al.

DOI: 10.1155/2021/3510036
PMCID: PMC8528596
PMID: 34691285 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: None of the authors have conflicts to declare.