[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: Jean-Claude Ellena | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Jean-Claude Ellena — Overview

Copperman, for Christian Lacroix Blanc (2003), for Paul & Joe Colonia Assoluta (2003), with Bertrand Duchaufour, for Acqua di Parma Emporio Armani Night for Her (2003), with Lucas Sieuzac, for Giorgio Armani Eau de Lalique, with Emilie Copperman, for Lalique Amouage Dia pour Femme, for Amouage After Hermes Ellena left Hermes in 2016, and Swiss-born chemist and perfumer Christine Nagel replaced him as Hermes in-house perfumer. Ellena's final fragrances for Hermes were Eau de Néroli Doré and Hermèssence Muguet Porcelaine. In 2018 Ellena worked with the House of Houbigant, to recreate Essence Rare, a fragrance he had first signed in 1973, his first assignment as a young perfumer in New York. Ellena returned to creating for Editions de Parfum Frederic Malle, his latest work, "Rose & Cuir," debuting in September 2019. He also became the olfactive director of the brand Le Couvent des Minimes. In 2019 Ellena also started an ongoing collaboration with Perris Monte Carlo, for whom he has created the Collection de Grasse, an exclusive fragrance collection paying tribute to the history and unique craftmanship of the art of perfumery in Pays de Grasse. Since 2019, Jean Claude Ellena is the Olfactory creation director of Le Couvent – Maison de Parfum. he created for and with Le Couvent a contemporary Haute Parfumerie rich and unique, luxurious and accessible, made from of noble and rare natural materials, 100% vegan: « Creating a Singular Haute Parfumerie accessible to all, working with beautiful materials and noble essences, is what seduced me at the Couvent. This vision of the extraordinary perfume that we share. A new approach, different from what we generally find. » J.C. Ellena

Personal life
Ellena's father, brother, and daughter Celine are also perfumers. Known for his signature white shirts, Ellena himself never wears perfume or cologne. His daughter Celine designed the Hermès Home Fragrance Collection. References

External links
 The Different Company  
 Chandler Burr, Scent of the Nile: Jean-Claude Ellena creates a new perfume, New Yorker, 15 March 2005. Amouage Perfumes
 Le Couvent-Maison de Parfum

People from Grasse
French perfumers
Living people
1947 births
Hermès