[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: Culpeper's Complete Herbal — Nicholas Culpeper | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Culpeper's Complete Herbal — Nicholas Culpeper — Overview

used to it after awhile.” Whitefoot did get used to it. After living in it for a few days, it no longer seemed strange, and he no longer minded its swaying when the wind blew. The fact is, he rather enjoyed it. So Whitefoot and Mrs. Whitefoot settled down to enjoy their new home. Now and then they added a bit to it here and there. Somehow Whitefoot felt unusually safe, safer than he had ever felt in
any of his other homes. You see, he had seen several feathered folk
alight close to it and not give it a second look. He knew that they
had seen that home, but had mistaken it for what it had once been, the
deserted home of one of their own number. Whitefoot had chuckled. He had chuckled long and heartily. “If they make
that mistake,” said he to himself, “everybody else is likely to make it. That home of ours is right in plain sight, yet I do believe it is safer
than the best hidden home I ever had before. Shadow the Weasel never
will think of climbing up this little tree to look at an old nest, and
Shadow is the one I am most afraid of.”

It was only a day or two later that Buster Bear happened along that way. Now Buster is very fond of tender Wood Mouse. More than once Whitefoot
had had a narrow escape from Buster's big claws as they tore open an old
stump or dug into the ground after him. He saw Buster glance up at the
new home without the slightest interest in those shrewd little eyes of
his. Then Buster shuffled on to roll over an old log and lick up the
ants he found under it. Again Whitefoot chuckled. “Yes, sir,” said he. “It is the safest home I 've ever had.”

So Whitefoot and little Mrs. Whitefoot were very happy in the home
which they had built, and for once in his life Whitefoot did very little
worrying. Life seemed more beautiful than it had ever been before. And
he almost forgot that there was such a thing as a hungry enemy. CHAPTER XXXI: Whitefoot Is Hurt

   The hurts that hardest are to bear
   Come from those for whom we care. --Whitefoot. Whitefoot was hurt. Yes, sir, Whitefoot was hurt. He was very much hurt. It wasn't a bodily hurt; it was an inside hurt. It was a hurt that made
his heart ache. And to make it worse, he couldn't understand it at all. One evening he had been met at the little round doorway by little Mrs. Whitefoot. “You can't come in,” said she. “Why can't I?” demanded Whitefoot, in the greatest surprise. “Never mind why. You can't, and that is all there is to it,” replied
Mrs. Whitefoot. “You mean I can't ever come in any more?” asked Whitefoot. “I don't know about that,” replied Mrs. Whitefoot, “but you can't come
in now, nor for some time. I think the best thing you can do is to go
back to your old home in the hollow stub.”

Whitefoot stared at little Mrs. Whitefoot quite as if he thought she
had gone crazy. Then he lost his temper. “I guess I'll come in if I want
to,” said he. “This home is quite as much my home as it is yours. You
have no right to keep me out of it. Just you get out of my way.”

But little Mrs. Whitefoot didn't get out of his way, and do what he
would, Whitefoot couldn't get in. You see she quite filled that little
round doorway. Finally, he had to give up trying. Three times he came
back and each time he found little Mrs. Whitefoot in the doorway. And
each time she drove him away. Finally, for lack of any other place to
go to, he returned to his old home in the old stub. Once he had thought
this the finest home possible, but now somehow it didn't suit him at
all. The truth is he missed little Mrs. Whitefoot, and so what had once
been a home was now only a place in which to hide and sleep. Whitefoot's anger did not last long. It was replaced by that hurt
feeling. He felt that he must have done something little Mrs. Whitefoot
did not like, but though he thought and thought he couldn't remember a
single thing. Several times he went back to see if Mrs. Whitefoot felt
any differently, but found she didn't. Finally she told him rather
sharply to go away and stay away. After that Whitefoot didn't venture
over to the new home. He would sometimes sit a short distance away
and gaze at it longingly. All the joy had gone out of the beautiful
springtime for him. He was quite as unhappy as he had been before he met
little Mrs. Whitefoot. You see, he was even more lonely than he had been
then. And added to this loneliness was that hurt feeling, which made it
ever and ever so much worse. It was very hard to bear. “If I could understand it, it wouldn't be so bad,” he kept saying
over and over again to himself, “but I don't understand it. I don't
understand why Mrs. Whitefoot doesn't love me any more.”



CHAPTER XXXII: The Surprise

   Surprises sometimes are so great
   You're tempted to believe in fate. --Whitefoot. One never-to-be forgotten evening Whitefoot met Mrs. Whitefoot and
she invited him to come back to their home. Of course Whitefoot was
delighted. “Sh-h-h,” said little Mrs. Whitefoot, as Whitefoot entered the snug
little room of the house they had built in the old nest of Melody the
Wood Thrush.