[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: curcumin anti-inflammatory clinical trial randomiz | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: curcumin anti-inflammatory clinical trial randomized]

38. Trials. 2021 Jul 6;22(1):434. doi: 10.1186/s13063-021-05372-9.

Effect of curcumin-pipeine supplementation on clinical status, mortality rate, 
oxidative stress, and inflammatory markers in critically ill ICU patients with 
COVID-19: a structured summary of a study protocol for a randomized controlled 
trial.

Askari G(1)(2)(3), Alikiaii B(2), Soleimani D(4), Sahebkar A(5)(6)(7), Mirjalili 
M(2), Feizi A(8), Iraj B(9), Bagherniya M(10)(11)(12).

Author information:
(1)Food Security Research Center, Isfahan University of Medical Sciences, PO 
Box: 00983117922110, Isfahan, Iran.
(2)Anesthesia and Critical Care Research Center, Isfahan University of Medical 
Sciences, Isfahan, Iran.
(3)Department of Community Nutrition, School of Nutrition and Food Science, 
Isfahan University of Medical Sciences, Isfahan, Iran.
(4)Research Center of Oils and Fats, Kermanshah University of Medical Sciences, 
Kermanshah, Iran.
(5)Applied Biomedical Research Center, Mashhad University of Medical Sciences, 
Mashhad, Iran.
(6)Biotechnology Research Center, Pharmaceutical Technology Institute, Mashhad 
University of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran.
(7)School of Pharmacy, Mashhad University of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran.
(8)Department of Biostatistics and Epidemiology, School of Health, Isfahan 
University of Medical Sciences, Isfahan, Iran.
(9)Isfahan Endocrine and Metabolism Research Center, Isfahan University of 
Medical Sciences, Isfahan, Iran.
(10)Food Security Research Center, Isfahan University of Medical Sciences, PO 
Box: 00983117922110, Isfahan, Iran. bagherniya@yahoo.com.
(11)Anesthesia and Critical Care Research Center, Isfahan University of Medical 
Sciences, Isfahan, Iran. bagherniya@yahoo.com.
(12)Department of Community Nutrition, School of Nutrition and Food Science, 
Isfahan University of Medical Sciences, Isfahan, Iran. bagherniya@yahoo.com.

OBJECTIVES: This study aims to investigate the efficacy of curcumin-piperine 
co-supplementation on oxidative stress factors, clinical symptoms, and mortality 
rate in patients with coronavirus (COVID-19) admitted to the intensive care unit 
(ICU).
TRIAL DESIGN: This study is a randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind, 
parallel-arm clinical trial.
PARTICIPANTS: The study participants will be recruited from patients admitted to 
the ICU of Al-Zahra hospital with a definitive diagnosis of COVID-19. The 
inclusion criteria are aged between 20 and 75 years, confirmation of COVID-19 
based on the PCR test, and admitted to the ICU. The exclusion criteria include 
the present use of parenteral nutrition support, a history of underlying 
diseases such as congenital disorders, immune diseases, renal and hepatic 
insufficiency, and pancreatitis, a history of sensitivity to herbal remedies 
such as turmeric and pepper, and regular use of anticoagulant drugs such as 
warfarin. This study will be performed in the Al-Zahra hospital, an academic 
hospital affiliated with Isfahan University of Medical Sciences, Isfahan, Iran.
INTERVENTION AND COMPARATOR: Sixty eligible patients will be randomly assigned, 
in a 1:1 ratio, to receive curcumin-piperine capsules (three capsules/day; each 
capsules containing 500 mg curcumin plus 5 mg piperine; in total 1500 mg 
curcumin and 15 mg piperine/daily) for seven days (n=30) or matching placebo 
capsules (three capsules/day; each capsules containing 505 mg maltodextrin; 
totally 1515 mg, maltodextrin/ daily) for same duration (n=30). Capsules will be 
administered after oral or enteral feeding at 9, 15 and 21 o'clock.
MAIN OUTCOMES: The primary outcome is the time from initiation of 
supplementation (curcumin-piperine or placebo) to normalization of fever, 
respiratory rate, and blood oxygen saturation. The secondary outcomes are the 
mortality rate, length of stay in ICU, temperature, levels of blood oxygen 
saturation, ventilator dependency, respiratory rate, levels of C-reactive 
protein (CRP), erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR), levels of liver markers 
(ALT, AST, LDH), and levels of kidney function markers (BUN, Creatinine).
FOLLOW UP: All of the parameters will be assessed at baseline and end of the 
study (7 days intervention). In addition, the rate of mortality will be 
collected after 4 weeks (28 days' mortality in the ICU, 4 weeks follow up).
RANDOMISATION: Eligible patients will be randomly assigned to either the 
intervention group (Curcumin-piperine) or the control group (Placebo). 
Randomization sequences will be generated using an electronic table of random 
numbers to allocate the included participants into either control or 
intervention groups (in a 1:1 ratio) using the stratified block randomization 
method. Stratification was conducted according to sex (male and female), with a 
block size of four. The allocation sequences will be prepared by an independent 
statistician and will be kept inside sealed, opaque, and consecutively numbered 
envelopes. Participants, investigators, nurses, and physicians will be unaware 
of the trial-group assignment.
BLINDING (MASKING): This study is a double-blind clinical trial (participants, 
investigators, nurses, and physicians). The curcumin-piperine and placebo 
supplements will be similar in the terms of texture, taste, color, odor, and 
weight. Both tablets will be provided in containers that are completely 
identical in weight, shape, labeling, and packaging. All participants, 
investigators, nurses, and physicians will be unaware of the trial-group 
assignment.
NUMBERS TO BE RANDOMISED (SAMPLE SIZE): The sample size is estimated at 60 
participants, including 30 patients in the intervention group and 30 patients in 
the placebo group.
TRIAL STATUS: The protocol is Version 2, registered on May 13, 2021. Recruitment 
began May 20, 2021, and is anticipated to be completed by September 20, 2021.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: This trial has been registered in Iranian Registry of 
Clinical Trials (IRCT) with the title of "Evaluation of the effect of 
curcumin-piperine supplementation in patients with coronavirus admitted to the 
intensive care unit (ICU): a double-blind clinical trial study". IRCT 
registration number is IRCT20121216011763N52 . The registration date was May 13, 
2021.
FULL PROTOCOL: The full protocol is attached as an additional file, accessible 
from the Trials website (File 1). In the interest of expediting the 
dissemination of this material, the familiar formatting has been eliminated; 
this Letter serves as a summary of the key elements of the full protocol.

DOI: 10.1186/s13063-021-05372-9
PMCID: PMC8258487
PMID: 34229742 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.