[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: crystal structure protein drug target binding | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: crystal structure protein drug target binding]

58. J Virol. 2023 Aug 31;97(8):e0074823. doi: 10.1128/jvi.00748-23. Epub 2023 Aug
3.

Structural and functional studies of PCNA from African swine fever virus.

Shao Z(1), Yang J(1), Gao Y(1), Zhang Y(1), Zhao X(1), Shao Q(1), Zhang W(1), 
Cao C(1), Liu H(1), Gan J(1).

Author information:
(1)Shanghai Public Health Clinical Center, State Key Laboratory of Genetic 
Engineering, Collaborative Innovation Center of Genetics and Development, School 
of Life Sciences, Fudan University , Shanghai, China.

Proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) belongs to the DNA sliding clamp 
family. Via interacting with various partner proteins, PCNA plays critical roles 
in DNA replication, DNA repair, chromatin assembly, epigenetic inheritance, 
chromatin remodeling, and many other fundamental biological processes. Although 
PCNA and PCNA-interacting partner networks are conserved across species, PCNA of 
a given species is rarely functional in heterologous systems, emphasizing the 
importance of more representative PCNA studies. Here, we report two crystal 
structures of PCNA from African swine fever virus (ASFV), which is the only 
member of the Asfarviridae family. Compared to the eukaryotic and archaeal PCNAs 
and the sliding clamp structural homologs from other viruses, AsfvPCNA possesses 
unique sequences and/or conformations at several regions, such as the J-loop, 
interdomain-connecting loop (IDCL), P-loop, and C-tail, which are involved in 
partner recognition or modification of sliding clamps. In addition to 
double-stranded DNA binding, we also demonstrate that AsfvPCNA can modestly 
enhance the ligation activity of the AsfvLIG protein. The unique structural 
features of AsfvPCNA can serve as a potential target for the development of 
ASFV-specific inhibitors and help combat the deadly virus. IMPORTANCE Two 
high-resolution crystal structures of African swine fever virus proliferating 
cell nuclear antigen (AsfvPCNA) are presented here. Structural comparison 
revealed that AsfvPCNA is unique at several regions, such as the J-loop, the 
interdomain-connecting loop linker, and the P-loop, which may play important 
roles in ASFV-specific partner selection of AsfvPCNA. Unlike eukaryotic and 
archaeal PCNAs, AsfvPCNA possesses high double-stranded DNA-binding affinity. 
Besides DNA binding, AsfvPCNA can also modestly enhance the ligation activity of 
the AsfvLIG protein, which is essential for the replication and repair of ASFV 
genome. The unique structural features make AsfvPCNA a potential target for drug 
development, which will help combat the deadly virus.

DOI: 10.1128/jvi.00748-23
PMCID: PMC10506467
PMID: 37534905 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.