[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: magnetic resonance spectroscopy metabolite brain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: magnetic resonance spectroscopy metabolite brain]

53. Pediatr Neurol. 2015 Mar;52(3):314-9. doi:
10.1016/j.pediatrneurol.2014.11.014.  Epub 2014 Dec 1.

Is magnetic resonance spectroscopy capable of detecting metabolic abnormalities 
in neurofibromatosis type 1 that are not revealed in brain parenchyma of normal 
appearance?

Rodrigues AC Jr(1), Ferraz-Filho JR(2), Torres US(3), da Rocha AJ(4), Muniz 
MP(2), Souza AS(2), Goloni-Bertollo EM(5), Pavarino ÉC(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Hospital de Base, São José do Rio Preto Medical 
School, São José do Rio Preto, Brazil. Electronic address: 
acprjunior@hotmail.com.
(2)Department of Radiology, Hospital de Base, São José do Rio Preto Medical 
School, São José do Rio Preto, Brazil.
(3)Department of Radiology, Hospital São Luiz, Grupo Fleury, São Paulo Brazil.
(4)Division of Neuroradiology, Santa Casa de Misericórdia São Paulo de, São 
Paulo, Brazil.
(5)Center of Research and Attendance in Neurofibromatosis (CEPAN), São José do 
Rio Preto Medical School, São José do Rio Preto, Brazil.

BACKGROUND: Results of magnetic resonance spectroscopy studies in 
normal-appearing brain and in non-neoplastic brain lesions in individuals with 
neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1) have been discrepant.
OBJECTIVE: We used magnetic resonance spectroscopy to analyze the metabolic 
patterns in the basal ganglia of patients with NF1 and examine their correlation 
with focal hyperintense lesions in T2-weighted images (T2-weighted 
hyperintensities).
METHODS: We used magnetic resonance spectroscopy data of 42 individuals with NF1 
(18 with and 24 without T2- weighted hyperintensities) and 25 controls matched 
for gender and age. A single-voxel technique was employed by manually placing a 
region of interest with a uniform size over a predetermined anatomical region 
including the globus pallidum and putamen (capsulolenticular region). We further 
analyzed the ratios of choline/creatine, N-acetyl aspartate (NAA)/creatine, and 
myoinositol/creatine metabolites and the occurrence of T2-weighted 
hyperintensities in these regions in individuals with NF1.
RESULTS: There was a significant difference between the NF1 and control groups 
with regard to the mean values of myoinositol/creatine and choline/creatine, 
with higher metabolite values observed in the NF1 group (P < 0.001). Only the 
myoinositol/creatine ratio was able to discriminate between NF1 subgroups with 
and without T2-weighted hyperintensities. For the NAA/creatine ratio, there was 
no significant difference between the NF1 and the control groups.
CONCLUSION: Magnetic resonance spectroscopy allows the characterization of 
tissue abnormalities not demonstrable in the structural images of individuals 
with NF1 through choline and myoinositol metabolite analysis. Yet the preserved 
NAA values argue against demyelination and axonal degeneration occurring in the 
region, suggesting instead a functional neuronal stability. Taken in association 
with the findings of lack of clinical manifestations and the known transient 
nature of T2-weighted hyperintensities in NF1 as demonstrated by other studies, 
our results support the current histopathologically driven hypothesis that such 
T2-weighted hyperintensities may be related to intramyelinic edema.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pediatrneurol.2014.11.014
PMID: 25585912 [Indexed for MEDLINE]