[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: nanoparticle drug delivery tumor targeting cancer | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: nanoparticle drug delivery tumor targeting cancer]

46. Expert Opin Drug Deliv. 2015 Mar;12(3):375-92. doi: 
10.1517/17425247.2015.966684. Epub 2014 Oct 1.

Leukocytes as carriers for targeted cancer drug delivery.

Mitchell MJ(1), King MR.

Author information:
(1)Cornell University, Department of Biomedical Engineering , Ithaca, NY 14853 , 
USA mike.king@cornell.edu.

INTRODUCTION: Metastasis contributes to over 90% of cancer-related deaths. 
Numerous nanoparticle platforms have been developed to target and treat cancer, 
yet efficient delivery of these systems to the appropriate site remains 
challenging. Leukocytes, which share similarities to tumor cells in terms of 
their transport and migration through the body, are well suited to serve as 
carriers of drug delivery systems to target cancer sites.
AREAS COVERED: This review focuses on the use and functionalization of 
leukocytes for therapeutic targeting of metastatic cancer. Tumor cell and 
leukocyte extravasation, margination in the bloodstream, and migration into soft 
tissue are discussed, along with the potential to exploit these functional 
similarities to effectively deliver drugs. Current nanoparticle-based drug 
formulations for the treatment of cancer are reviewed, along with methods to 
functionalize delivery vehicles to leukocytes, either on the surface and/or 
within the cell. Recent progress in this area, both in vitro and in vivo, is 
also discussed, with a particular emphasis on targeting cancer cells in the 
bloodstream as a means to interrupt the metastatic process.
EXPERT OPINION: Leukocytes interact with cancer cells both in the bloodstream 
and at the site of solid tumors. These interactions can be utilized to 
effectively deliver drugs to targeted areas, which can reduce both the amount of 
drug required and various nonspecific cytotoxic effects within the body. If drug 
delivery vehicle functionalization does not interfere with leukocyte function, 
this approach may be utilized to neutralize tumor cells in the bloodstream to 
prevent the formation of new metastases, and also to deliver drugs to metastatic 
sites within tissues.

DOI: 10.1517/17425247.2015.966684
PMCID: PMC5658012
PMID: 25270379 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interest The authors were 
supported by the Cornell Center on the Microenvironment and Metastasis through 
Award Number U54CA143876 from the National Cancer Institute. The content is 
solely the responsibility of the authors and does not necessarily represent the 
official views of the National Cancer Institute or the National Institutes of 
Health. The authors have no other relevant affiliations or financial involvement 
with any organization or entity with a financial interest in or financial 
conflict with the subject matter or materials discussed in the manuscript apart 
from those disclosed.