[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: Physical theories modified by general relativity | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Physical theories modified by general relativity — Overview

conservation laws for energy and momentum are handled separately in the two principles of conservation of energy and conservation of momentum. With the advent of special relativity, these two conservation principles were united through the concept of mass-energy equivalence. Mathematically, the general relativity statement of energy–momentum conservation is: where is the stress–energy tensor, the comma indicates a partial derivative and the semicolon indicates a covariant derivative. The terms involving the Christoffel symbols are absent in the special relativity statement of energy–momentum conservation. Unlike classical mechanics and special relativity, it is not usually possible to unambiguously define the total energy and momentum in general relativity, so the tensorial conservation laws are local statements only (see ADM energy, though). This often causes confusion in time-dependent spacetimes which apparently do not conserve energy, although the local law is always satisfied. Exact formulation of energy–momentum conservation on an arbitrary geometry requires use of a non-unique stress–energy–momentum pseudotensor. Electromagnetism

General relativity modifies the description of electromagnetic phenomena by employing a new version of Maxwell's equations. These differ from the special relativity form in that the Christoffel symbols make their presence in the equations via the covariant derivative. The source equations of electrodynamics in curved spacetime are (in cgs units)

where Fab is the electromagnetic field tensor representing the electromagnetic field and Ja is a four-current representing the sources of the electromagnetic field. The source-free equations are the same as their special relativity counterparts. The effect of an electromagnetic field on a charged object is then modified to
,

where q is the charge on the object, m is the rest mass of the object and P a is the four-momentum of the charged object. Maxwell's equations in flat spacetime are recovered in rectangular coordinates by reverting the covariant derivatives to partial derivatives. For Maxwell's equations in flat spacetime in curvilinear coordinates see 
or 

Theories modified by general relativity
General relativity