[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: MRI physics image quality artifact reduction | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: MRI physics image quality artifact reduction]

53. NMR Biomed. 2025 Jun;38(6):e70041. doi: 10.1002/nbm.70041.

High-Resolution 3D Turbo Spin-Echo Wrist MRI at 7T Accelerated by Compressed 
Sensing.

Runderkamp BA(1), Caan MWA(2), van der Zwaag W(3)(4), Hemke R(1), Maas M(1), 
Andersen M(5)(6), Strijkers GJ(2), Markenroth Bloch K(5), Nederveen AJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology and Nuclear Medicine, Amsterdam University Medical 
Center, University of Amsterdam, Amsterdam Movement Sciences, Amsterdam, the 
Netherlands.
(2)Department of Biomedical Engineering and Physics, Amsterdam University 
Medical Center, University of Amsterdam, Amsterdam Movement Sciences, Amsterdam, 
the Netherlands.
(3)Spinoza Centre for Neuroimaging, Royal Netherlands Academy for Arts and 
Sciences (KNAW), Amsterdam, the Netherlands.
(4)Computational and Cognitive Neuroscience and Neuroimaging, Netherlands 
Institute for Neuroscience, KNAW, Amsterdam, the Netherlands.
(5)Lund University Bioimaging Center, Lund University, Lund, Sweden.
(6)Philips Healthcare, Copenhagen, Denmark.

This study aimed to obtain high-resolution 3D isotropic turbo spin-echo (TSE) 
wrist MRI acquisitions at 7T, with and without fat suppression, facilitated by 
compressed-sensing (CS) acceleration. In 16 healthy subjects, fat-suppressed 
(FS) and nonfat-suppressed (NFS) TSE wrist images were obtained. The protocol 
consisted of a SENSE-accelerated scan, with an isotropic voxel size of 0.45 mm 
and acquisition time of 7 min ("SENSE45"), a 0.45-mm, 4-min CS-accelerated scan 
("CS45"), and a 0.35-mm, 7-min CS-accelerated scan ("CS35"). For two subjects, 
additional 0.45-mm, 4-min SENSE-accelerated scans were acquired ("High-SENSE"). 
For the NFS scans, refocusing pulses were optimized to mitigate water-fat 
chemical-shift artifacts in the slab-selection direction. Anatomical visibility 
of wrist structures and image quality were assessed qualitatively and through 
musculoskeletal radiologist grading. The use of nonselective hard refocusing 
pulses with optimized bandwidths and a center frequency in between water and fat 
enabled NFS imaging. The image quality of the faster CS45 scans was lower than 
for SENSE45, with statistically significantly different grading in 9/16 (FS) and 
2/6 (NFS) grading parameters. Nonetheless, a similar scan time reduction could 
not be achieved using High-SENSE. No distinct benefit of CS35 compared to 
SENSE45 was evident in either the FS or NFS scans. NFS CS35 exhibited enhanced 
bone sharpness compared to SENSE45 for some subjects, yet on a group level, the 
difference was not statistically significant. In conclusion, for maintained 
voxel size, CS presents the opportunity to achieve shorter scan times than 
possible with SENSE alone, but with reduced image quality. For maintained scan 
time, although higher resolution CS incidentally showed a promising increase in 
NFS bone sharpness compared to SENSE, it does not present an unequivocal 
advantage for 3D 7-T TSE wrist MRI at this stage. Further optimization of the 
acquisition and reconstruction process is recommended.

This study aimed to obtain high‐resolution 3D isotropic turbo spin‐echo (TSE) 
wrist MRI acquisitions at 7T, with and without fat suppression, facilitated by 
compressed‐sensing (CS) acceleration. CS presents the opportunity to achieve 
higher acceleration factors than SENSE, although further optimization of the 
acquisition and reconstruction process is recommended.[Image: see text]

© 2025 The Author(s). NMR in Biomedicine published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/nbm.70041
PMCID: PMC12004352
PMID: 40242987 [Indexed for MEDLINE]