[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: Alternatives | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Alternatives — Overview

the Canadian Arab Federation." In addition, the government was reported to have been concerned regarding a 2008 "education camp" at Saint-Alphonse de Rodriguez in Quebec, was attended by "500 motivated militants" from Lebanon, Iraq, and Venezuela. Youth Internship Programs Alternatives organizes overseas youth internship programs (such as Alternatives' NetCorps program), with the aim of developing a sense of solidarity and curiosity about other regions within youth. These internships emphasize understanding Third World realities and encouraging actions that will advance Alternatives' message of justice. Thanks to the internships, hundreds of young people have had the opportunity to participate in uncommon professional, cultural, and human experiences. Alternatives' Internships Program for 2009-2010 offers internships funded by the Québec Sans Frontières Program of Québec's Ministère des relations internationales. The 2009-2010 Program offered 4 types of internships, under the following 3 themes:
 Communications et journalism: Bolivia: Andale! An environmental voice for workers in Bolivia]

Ecuador: Documentaries for the rights of youth and children in Ecuador
 Environment and urban agriculture: Mali: Roots around the world : urban agriculture in Bamako
 Information and Communication Technologies: Cameroon: When communities take the information highway : education in Yaoundé

Also, one position of the OCI program of Québec Sans Fronitères was available at Alternatives' offices in Montreal:
 Community sector management and institutional development: Assistant to the Québec sans frontières (QSF) program : from Africa to the Americas

As part of the Youth Eco Internship program of YMCA of Canada, Alternatives offered 2 internship positions in Montreal:
 Environment and urban agriculture: Assistant to the environment and urban agriculture program
Urban agriculture mobilization and education officer

Alternatives in Quebec and Canada
Alternatives is an organization that produces and participates in many conferences, that publishes a newspaper and several Web sites, and that organizes educational and informational activities. The Alternatives newspaper, a monthly compendium of international, national, and cultural news, has a distribution of 50,000, creating a window of alternative information on the world. Whether in Quebec, Canada, or the world, Alternatives works to raise public awareness of international and local policy debates and keep people informed of the links between them. Through its information and educational campaigns, reflecting our concerns with equality and justice for the South, Alternatives goes beyond the general public to reach policymakers. At the local level, our work involves environmental concerns, participatory democracy, out-reach and solidarity programs with immigrant communities and the promotion of pro-social policies. For the last 16 years, Alternatives has been hosting the Journées Alternatives, a three-day retreat with Alternatives volunteers at Camp Papillon de St-Alphonse de Rodriguez. The retreat promotes reflection, engagement and education and has hundreds of participants yearly. Alternatives' Rooftop Gardens Project in Montreal
Since 2003, Alternatives has funded and promoted promotes a Rooftop Garden Project, which has been exploring new ways to interact with urban man-made environment and the food cycle, for a greener city and healthier communities. The Rooftop Garden Project is a combination of hydroponic cultivation, permaculture, organic agriculture and collective gardening. It has inspired numerous initiatives in Québec, Canada and elsewhere in the world. The new green community spaces have been designed as collective gardens, making participation possible in both public and private areas. This is founded in a desire to offer some simple food production models that are affordable, environmentally friendly and easy to adapt for use in both the South and the North, in a response to growing urbanization, pollution and growing urban poverty. In 2008, the Rooftop Garden Project earned the highest environmental distinction in Quebec, the Phénix de l’environnement, and received the 2008 National Urban Design Award from the Royal Architectural Institute of Canada, the Canadian Institute of Planners (CIP) and the Canadian Society of Landscape Architects (CSLA) for its collaborative project with McGill University's Minimum Cost Housing Groupe and Santropol Roulant. Finances
Alternatives garners its financial support from a combination donors and members, as well as partner organizations working alongside Alternatives including major unions and church groups, International Organizations and governments. Supporters
Individuals across Canada contribute to Alternatives either as donors, members, or by subscribing to the newspaper. Many activists, journalists, and public figures from Quebec, Canada, and the world support Alternatives. Among these are:
 Margaret Atwood, award winning novelist and poet
 Judy Rebick, politically engaged writer and researcher
 Françoise David, leader of Québec Solidaire, ex-President of the Quebec Federation of Women, co-founder of the World March of Women
 Gil Courtemanche, activist journalist and writer
 Madeleine Parent, feminist and long-time union leader
 Archbishop Desmond Tutu, Nobel Peace Prize winner
 Noam Chomsky, linguist, philosopher, cognitive scientist, and political activist.