[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Propulsion Mechanics | Topic: Soyuz-2 | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Soyuz-2 — Overview

Soyuz-2 () (GRAU index 14A14) is a modernised version of the Soviet Soyuz rocket. In its basic form, it is a three-stage launch vehicle for placing payloads into low Earth orbit. Compared to the previous versions of the Soyuz, the first-stage boosters and two core stages feature uprated engines with improved injection systems. Digital flight control and telemetry systems allow the rocket to be launched from a fixed launch platform, whereas the launch platforms for earlier Soyuz rockets had to be rotated as the rocket could not perform a roll to change its heading in flight. Soyuz-2 is often flown with an upper stage, which allows it to lift payloads into higher orbits, such as Molniya and geosynchronous orbits. The upper stage is equipped with independent flight control and telemetry systems from those used in the rest of the rocket. The NPO Lavochkin manufactured Fregat is the most commonly used upper stage. Soyuz-2 rockets were first launched from Site 31 at the Baikonur Cosmodrome, and Site 43 at the Plesetsk Cosmodrome, launch facilities shared with earlier R-7 derived rockets including the Soyuz-U and Molniya. Commercial Soyuz-2 flights are contracted by Starsem and have launched from Site 31 at Baikonur Cosmodrome and Ensemble de Lancement Soyouz (ELS), which has been built at the Centre Spatial Guyanais on the northern coast of South America. The Soyuz-2 version ST-B can deliver  to geostationary transfer orbit (GTO) from this equatorial site. In 2016, the new Vostochny Cosmodrome started operating Soyuz-2 flights as well, from its first launch pad called Vostochny Cosmodrome Site 1S. The Soyuz-2 has replaced the Molniya-M, Soyuz-U and Soyuz-FG since 2010, 2017 and 2019 respectively. TsSKB-Progress halted production of Soyuz-U in April 2015; the final flight of a Soyuz-U rocket took place on 22 February 2017, carrying Progress MS-05 to the International Space Station (ISS). According to CNES officials interviewed in May 2018, launches of Soyuz from Centre Spatial Guyanais may be replaced by the Ariane 6 medium-lift version A62 in 2021, but later moved back to 2022 or later. Variants 
The Soyuz-2 family includes 2.1a, 2.1b, and 2.1v. The first two variants are modifications to the Soyuz-U launcher. The latter is a "light" version without side boosters. When launched from the Centre Spatial Guyanais site, Soyuz-2 is always mated with the ST-type fairing; this version is called Soyuz-ST or Soyuz-STK, where additional "K" indicates special measures taken for preparing and launching the rocket in hot and humid conditions. Soyuz-2.1a 
The 2.1a version includes conversion from analog to digital flight control system and uprated engines on the booster and the first stage with improved injection systems. The new digital flight control and telemetry systems allow the rocket to launch from a fixed rather than angled launch platform and adjust its heading in flight. A digital control system also enables the launch of larger commercial satellites with wider and longer payload fairings such as the ST-type fairing. These fairings introduce too much aerodynamic instability for the old analog system to handle. This stage continues to use the RD-0110 engine. The 2.1a/ST version is sometimes called Soyuz ST-A. The first launch, from Guiana, (17 December 2011 for Pléiades-HR 1A, SSOT, ELISA (4 satellites)) was a success. Soyuz-2.1b 
The 2.1b version adds an upgraded engine (RD-0124) which greatly increases the specific impulse of the upper stage (326 seconds to 359 seconds), and hence improves payload capability from 7 tonnes to 8.2 tonnes. First launch took place from Plesetsk Cosmodrome Site 43 on 26 July 2008 with a classified military payload. The 2.1b/ST version is sometimes called Soyuz ST-B. The first launch, from Centre Spatial Guyanais, was a success (21 October 2011), for the first two Galileo IOV satellites. Soyuz-2.1v 

The first flight vehicle of the 2.1v version was finished in 2009. It is a "light" version of the Soyuz-2 without the side boosters (blocks B, V, G and D ). The Block A engine was replaced by the more powerful NK-33-1, which , was to eventually be replaced with the RD-193. The new launcher version was able to deliver up to 2.8 tonnes in low Earth orbit. Modifications for various launch sites 

The Soyuz-2.1a/1b versions launched from the Vostochny Cosmodrome and the Centre Spatial Guyanais have a series of modifications over the stock units. Some of these might later be implemented on all the Soyuz-2, while some are particular requirements to the space port design. Modifications for the Centre Spatial Guyanais (CSG) version includes:
 First use of a mobile service tower at the ELS that enabled vertical payload integration. European supplied payload adapters. European supplied KSE (), a system to locate and transmit a flight termination signal. It would activate the engine shutdown command and leave the vehicle in a ballistic trajectory. Adaptation of the S-Band telemetry system on all stages from the 5 TM bands available at Baikonur, and Plesetsk to the 3 allowed at the CSG range.