[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: biomaterial implant osseointegration titanium clin | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: biomaterial implant osseointegration titanium clinical]

21. Arch Oral Biol. 2016 Aug;68:153-61. doi: 10.1016/j.archoralbio.2016.05.005.
Epub  2016 May 4.

Laminin coatings on implant surfaces promote osseointegration: Fact or fiction?

Javed F(1), Al Amri MD(2), Kellesarian SV(3), Al-Askar M(4), Al-Kheraif AA(5), 
Romanos GE(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of General Dentistry, Eastman Institute for Oral Health, 
University of Rochester, NY, USA. Electronic address: 
Fawad_Javed@urmc.rochester.edu.
(2)Department of Prosthetic Dental Sciences, College of Dentistry, King Saud 
University, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.
(3)Department of General Dentistry, Eastman Institute for Oral Health, 
University of Rochester, NY, USA.
(4)Department of Periodontics and Community Dentistry, College of Dentistry, 
King Saud University, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.
(5)Dental Biomaterials Research Chair, Dental Health Department, College of 
Applied Medical Sciences, King Saud University, Riyadh 11541, Saudi Arabia.
(6)Department of General Dentistry, Eastman Institute for Oral Health, 
University of Rochester, NY, USA; Department of Oral Surgery and Implant 
Dentistry, Dental School, Johann Wolfgang Goethe, University of Frankfurt, 
Frankfurt, Germany; Department of Periodontology, School of Dental Medicine, 
Stony Brook University, Stony Brook, NY, USA.

To our knowledge from indexed literature, the role of laminins in the expression 
of osteogenic biomarkers and osseointegration enhancement has not been 
systematically reviewed. The aim of the present systematic review was to assess 
the role of laminin coatings on implant surfaces in promoting osseointegration. 
To address the focused question, "Do laminin coatings on implant surfaces 
influence osseointegration?", indexed databases were searched from 1965 up to 
and including November 2015 using various combination of the following keywords: 
"Bone to implant contact"; "implant"; "laminins"; and "osseointegration". 
Letters to the Editor, case-reports/case-series, historic reviews, and 
commentaries were excluded. The pattern of the present systematic review was 
customized to primarily summarize the pertinent data. Nine studies were 
included. Six studies were prospective and were performed in animals and 5 
studies were in vitro. Results from 8 studies showed that laminin coatings 
enhanced new bone formation around implants and/or bone-to-implant contact. One 
study showed that laminin coated implants surfaces did not improve 
osseointegration. On experimental grounds, laminin coatings seem to enhance 
osteogenic biomarkers expression and/or osseointegration; however, from a 
clinical perspective, further randomized control trials are needed to assess the 
role of laminin coatings in promoting osseointegration around dental implants.

Crown Copyright © 2016. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.archoralbio.2016.05.005
PMID: 27164563 [Indexed for MEDLINE]