[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: photodynamic therapy cancer clinical trial | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: photodynamic therapy cancer clinical trial]

27. Cancer Treat Res. 2007;134:493-514. doi: 10.1007/978-0-387-48993-3_34.

Intraperitoneal photodynamic therapy.

Cengel KA(1), Glatstein E, Hahn SM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, University of Pennsylvania School of 
Medicine, Philadelphia 19104, USA.

Peritoneal carcinomatosis and sarcomatosis are generally incurable problems for 
which there are few good treatment options. Intraperitoneal PDT is potentially 
an ideal therapy for peritoneal carcinomatosis because of its relatively 
superficial treatment effect. A Phase II trial of IP PDT with the first 
generation photosensitizer, Photofrin, demonstrates that this treatment approach 
is tolerable clinically but is associated with substantial toxicity suggesting a 
narrow therapeutic index. Remarkably, responses were observed in heavily 
pre-treated patients suggesting clinical activity. Correlative studies of 
photosensitizer uptake in human tumour and normal tissues show little tumour 
selectivity. This lack of photosensitizer selectivity for tumour in combination 
with tumour hypoxia (as opposed to oxic normal tissues) is likely a major reason 
for the narrow therapeutic index of intraperitoneal PDT. However, the advent of 
novel and potentially molecularly targeted photosensitizers, combined with 
enhancement of PDT cancer cell cytotoxicity through inhibition of growth factor 
signaling should greatly improve the therapeutic index of intraperitoneal PDT. 
In addition, other approaches, including the use of nanotechnology, may allow 
the administration of fractionated PDT which may also improve the therapeutic 
index of this treatment. The clinical implementation of these technologies may 
allow for highly effective and well tolerated treatment of intraperitoneal 
carcinomatosis with PDT.

DOI: 10.1007/978-0-387-48993-3_34
PMID: 17633077 [Indexed for MEDLINE]