[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: Proanthocyanidin | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Proanthocyanidin — Overview

can be found in blueberries, cranberries (notably procyanidin A2), aronia, hawthorn, rosehip, and sea buckthorn. Oligomeric proanthocyanidins can be extracted via Vaccinium pahalae from in vitro cell culture. The US Department of Agriculture maintains a database of botanical and food sources of proanthocyanidins. Plant defense In nature, proanthocyanidins serve among other chemical and induced defense mechanisms against plant pathogens and predators, such as occurs in strawberries. Bioavailability
Proanthocyanidin has low bioavailability, with 90% remaining unabsorbed from the intestines until metabolized by gut flora to the more bioavailable metabolites. Non-oxidative chemical depolymerisation
Condensed tannins can undergo acid-catalyzed cleavage in the presence of (or an excess of) a nucleophile like phloroglucinol (reaction called phloroglucinolysis), benzyl mercaptan (reaction called thiolysis), thioglycolic acid (reaction called thioglycolysis) or cysteamine. Flavan-3-ol compounds used with methanol produce short-chain procyanidin dimers, trimers, or tetramers which are more absorbable. These techniques are generally called depolymerisation and give information such as average degree of polymerisation or percentage of galloylation. These are SN1 reactions, a type of substitution reaction in organic chemistry, involving a carbocation intermediate under strongly acidic conditions in polar protic solvents like methanol. The reaction leads to the formation of free and derived monomers that can be further analyzed or used to enhance procyanidin absorption and bioavailability. The free monomers correspond to the terminal units of the condensed tannins chains. In general, reactions are made in methanol, especially thiolysis, as benzyl mercaptan has a low solubility in water. They involve a moderate (50 to 90 °C) heating for a few minutes. Epimerisation may happen. Phloroglucinolysis can be used for instance for proanthocyanidins characterisation in wine or in  grape seeds and skin. Thioglycolysis can be used to study proanthocyanidins or the oxidation of condensed tannins. It is also used for lignin quantitation. Reaction on condensed tannins from Douglas fir bark produces epicatechin and catechin thioglycolates. Condensed tannins from Lithocarpus glaber leaves have been analysed through acid-catalyzed degradation in the presence of cysteamine. Research

Urinary tract infections
Cranberries have A2-type proanthocyanidins (PACs) which may be important for the ability of PACs to bind to proteins, such as the adhesins present on E. coli fimbriae and were thought to inhibit bacterial infections, such as urinary tract infections (UTIs). Clinical trials have produced mixed results when asking the question to confirm that PACs, particularly from cranberries, were an alternative to antibiotic prophylaxis for UTIs: 1) a 2014 scientific opinion by the European Food Safety Authority rejected physiological evidence that cranberry PACs have a role in inhibiting bacterial pathogens involved in UTIs; 2) an updated 2023 Cochrane Collaboration review supported the use of cranberry products for the prevention of UTIs for certain groups. A 2017 systematic review concluded that cranberry products significantly reduced the incidence of UTIs, indicating that cranberry products may be effective particularly for individuals with recurrent infections. In 2019, the American Urological Association released guidelines stating that a moderate level of evidence supports the use of cranberry products containing PACs for possible prevention from recurrent UTIs. Wine consumption

Proanthocyanidins are the principal polyphenols in red wine that are under research to assess risk of coronary heart disease and lower overall mortality. With tannins, they also influence the aroma, flavor, mouth-feel and astringency of red wines. In red wines, total OPC content, including flavan-3-ols (catechins), was substantially higher (177  mg/L) than that in white wines (9  mg/L). Other

Proanthocyanidins found in the proprietary extract of maritime pine bark called Pycnogenol were not found (in 2012) to be effective as a treatment for any disease:
"Current evidence is insufficient to support Pycnogenol(®) use for the treatment of any chronic disorder. Well-designed, adequately powered trials are needed to establish the value of this treatment."

Sources
Proanthocyanidins are present in fresh grapes, juice, red wine, and other darkly pigmented fruits such as cranberry, blackcurrant, elderberry, and aronia. Although red wine may contain more proanthocyanidins by mass per unit of volume than does red grape juice, red grape juice contains more proanthocyanidins per average serving size. An  serving of grape juice averages 124 milligrams proanthocyanidins, whereas a  serving of red wine averages 91 milligrams (i.e., 145.6 milligrams per 8 fl. oz. or 240 mL). Many other foods and beverages may also contain proanthocyanidins, but few attain the levels found in red grape seeds and skins, with a notable exception being aronia, which has the highest recorded level of proanthocyanidins among fruits assessed to date (664 milligrams per 100 g).