[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Propulsion Mechanics | Topic: Khrunichev State Research and Production Space Center | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Khrunichev State Research and Production Space Center — Overview

21 Iridium satellites on three Proton-K rockets in 1997–1998. Salyut managed to sign only one contract for launching the Inmarsat-3 F satellite with Proton-K at the low price of $36 million. Both companies attempted to enter partnerships with foreign companies to market Proton launches. The situation where two companies, the design bureau and the factory, competed with each other to sell the same product proved problematic. To solve this, on 7 June 1993, President of Russia Boris Yeltsin issued a decree to merge Khrunichev and Salyut, forming the company Khrunichev State Research and Production Space Center. The new company's status was unique in that it was not subordinate to any ministries or to the Russian Space Agency. Vladimir Kirillov, writing for the Eksport Vooruzheniy journal, speculates that this was because Yeltsin's daughter Tatyana Dyachenko, who had worked at Salyut and continued to work for Khrunichev until 1994, wished to secure a high status for her employer. Success on the international launch market
On 15 April 1993 Khrunichev had created the Lockheed-Khrunichev-Energia joint venture with the American company Lockheed, and in 1995, due to the merger of Lockheed and Martin Marietta, it was transformed into International Launch Services (ILS). The joint venture marketed launches on both the Proton and the American Atlas rockets. The United States had given permission for the appearance of Proton on the international launch market, but introduced a quota to protect the launch market from "Russian dumping." Despite this, the Proton, built by Khrunichev, was successful and by the end of 2000 had earned launch contracts worth over $1.5 billion. The income from commercial launch contracts and investments from Lockheed enabled Khrunichev to conduct a serious upgrade of its facilities. This included an upgrade of the company's launch facilities in Baikonur, for which several hundred million dollars were invested. The commercial earnings also allowed the company to develop new launch vehicles, boosters and spacecraft on its own without government support. Since its creation, International Launch Services has signed contracts for more than 100 launches valued at more than $8 billion. In 1998, Khrunichev was made subordinate to the Russian Space Agency, then called Rosaviakosmos. Khrunichev resisted the move for a long time, and managed to prevent the agency from installing its own leadership in the company. One disadvantage for Khrunichev was that the Blok DM upper stage, used by Proton, was manufactured by the company RSC Energia, and Khrunichev had to pay 40% of its launch revenue for its usage. Due to this, in 1996–1998, Khrunichev started the development of its own upper stage, called the Briz-KM. Partly because of funding difficulties, the development process was slow and Briz-KM experienced several failures in its early days. After a Briz-M failure prevented the AMC-14 satellite from reaching its designated orbit, several modifications were made in this upper stage. Integration programme
In the 2000s, Khrunichev entered a vertical integration programme to bring its principal suppliers under a single management. For this purpose, Khrunichev absorbed the following companies:
 PO Polyot, a rocket manufacturer located in Omsk
 Proton-PM, an engine maker located in Perm
 Voronezh Mechanical Plant, which manufactures engines for Proton Stages II and III, Soyuz Stage III and Zenit upper stage
 KBKhM, manufacturer of propulsion systems for the Breeze upper stage located in Korolyov
 KBKhA, a contractor for production and design issues located in Voronezh

As of 2010, the integration had resulted in the share of in-house production for Proton and the Breeze upper stage rising from 30% to 65% of the product value. Structure
Companies of the Khrunichev Space Center:
 Salyut Design Bureau
 Space Rocket Plant
 Space Hardware Operation Plant (ZERKT)
 Armatura Design Bureau
 Khrunichev Telecom
 Space Systems Research and Development Institute
 Medical Equipment and Consumer Goods Division
 Voronezh Mechanical Plant
 Polyot Production Corporation
 Isayev Chemical Engineering Design Bureau
 Ust-Katav Carriage Plant Named for S.M. Kirov (UKVZ)

Production

Khrunichev's main product is the Proton rocket, which has been launched more than 350 times since its creation in 1968. Latest version of the venerable rocket, which has been subject to several incremental upgrades, is Proton-M Enhanced; it has a lifting capability of 6,150 kg to geostationary transfer orbit. For use as Proton's upper stage, Khrunichev produces Briz-M, which first flew in 2000. Rockot, a converted ballistic missile, is offered for launching smaller payloads. For international marketing of Rockot launches, Khrunichev has created the joint-venture Eurockot GmbH. Another version of the Briz-M upper stage, Briz-KM, is used as Rockot's third stage. In 2009, the company manufactured a total of 25 launch vehicles, upper stage boosters and spacecraft, while in 2005 the figure was 11.