[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: curcumin anti-inflammatory clinical trial randomiz | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: curcumin anti-inflammatory clinical trial randomized]

78. Oral Surg Oral Med Oral Pathol Oral Radiol. 2019 Apr;127(4):300-308. doi: 
10.1016/j.oooo.2019.01.010. Epub 2019 Jan 16.

Efficacy of curcumin for management of oral submucous fibrosis: a systematic 
review of randomized clinical trials.

Al-Maweri SA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral Medicine and Diagnostic Science, Al Farabi Colleges, 
Riyadh, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. Electronic address: Sadali05@hotmail.com.

OBJECTIVES: Oral submucous fibrosis (OSF) is a chronic debilitating disease that 
has a high risk of malignant transformation. Management of OSF is quite 
challenging, with no definitive cure being available. This systematic review 
assessed the available evidence for using curcumin for pain alleviation and 
clinical improvement in patients with OSF.
STUDY DESIGN: A comprehensive search of PubMed/Medline, Scopus, and ISI Web of 
Science databases was conducted to identify all relevant clinical trials 
comparing patients receiving curcumin treatment to active and/or nonactive 
controls for the treatment of OSF.
RESULTS: Six clinical trials comprising 298 patients were included. All studies 
found curcumin to be effective in the management of OSF. Three studies found 
significantly higher improvement in burning sensation in the curcumin group 
compared with controls, whereas 3 other studies found comparable results. With 
regard to clinical signs, 2 studies showed better improvement in mouth opening 
in the curcumin group; 3 studies reported no differences in effectiveness; and 
only 1 study found curcumin to be inferior to conventional therapy.
CONCLUSIONS: The available evidence remains inconclusive but suggests that 
curcumin is a promising effective treatment option for the management of 
patients with OSF. Further well-designed clinical trials with large sample sizes 
and adequate follow-up periods are warranted.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.oooo.2019.01.010
PMID: 30745280 [Indexed for MEDLINE]