[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: Design and FEM Analysis of High-Torque Power Density Permane | Type: Peer-Reviewed | Level: Expert]

[Semantic Scholar | Fields:  | Year: 2022 | Citations: 26]

Title: Design and FEM Analysis of High-Torque Power Density Permanent Magnet Synchronous Motor (PMSM) for Two-Wheeler E-Vehicle Applications

Abstract:
Launch of electric vehicles have seen a substantial rise for the past few years in emerging economies like India. In countries like India, the growth and penetration of the electric vehicles in the Indian automotive industry specifically for the two-wheeler segments are driven by the demand surge where cost and motor metrics have a substantial deciding factor. The in-wheel hub-motor, which is the prime mover for the two wheelers, decides the comfort zone of the customer in various metrics such as efficiency, torque, speed range, charging, and hence the distance covered. This paper addresses the design formulation of achieving a high torque Permanent Magnet Synchronous Motor (PMSM) conventionally known as the hub-motor, explicitly for electric two-wheeler application. The hub-motor is aimed for the defined D and L (280 × 30 mm) of volumetric constraints to deliver the rated torque of 50 Nm at the spinning speed of 400 rpm. The hub-motor design is aimed for distance range of 108 km/charge, at the vehicle speed of 54 km/hr for the designed diametric and volumetric constraints. This will lead to a typical cost-effective e-vehicle system since the required distance range of 108 km is achievable at the defined rim size and geometry with an enhanced efficiency greater than 90%. The design is carried out by Finite Element Analysis (FEA) using the electromagnetic software MotorSolve. The results computed are analyzed and validated for the optimal loading conditions for the ambient temperature of 50°C. The results confirm the effectiveness of the proposed design formulation and methodology for achieving the high power density hub-motors for satisfying the customer’s comfort zone in establishing the performance metrics of the electromagnetic system.