[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: Alexander Solonik | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Alexander Solonik — Overview

station with a Glock 17 which he concealed under a raincoat. Three policemen were hit and Solonik ran outside, where he shot two more police officers. Solonik was also shot and cornered, but managed to hold back the officers. Eventually he was overpowered and surrendered, then was sent to the Moscow Matrosskaya Tishina prison, where he underwent an operation to remove a bullet from his kidney. In 1995, Solonik escaped prison yet again when his jailer, Sergey Menshikov, rumoured to be a mob sleeper agent, provided him with a pistol and climbing equipment. Having placed a mannequin under the blanket of his bed to delay pursuit, Solonik escaped using the climbing equipment to rappel down from the prison roof. This time Solonik had very few hiding places in Russia, as his name and face were known to the authorities and general public, but he managed to disappear without being re-apprehended. Eventually, Solonik surfaced in Greece with a fake passport, which he secured from the Greek consulate in Moscow. In Greece, Solonik set up his own organization of around 50 men, which dealt in drug smuggling and contract killings, and bought several villas in an Athens suburb. Solonik's reputation now grew to legendary proportions with the public, and he was featured in Russia's top ten "most wanted" list. Death
On 31 January 1997 Russian hitman and ex-Marine Alexander Pustovalov ("Sasha Soldat")strangled Alexander Solonik to death in Solonik's villa. In February 1997, Greek newspapers published articles that claimed a Russian Mob boss had been found dead  from Athens. The body of the mobster was found and had no identification documents, though the authorities nevertheless identified the body as Alexander Solonik. In the weeks after Solonik's body was found, Greek authorities raided the villas belonging to Solonik's organization and found an arsenal of weapons. They also discovered that Solonik had been hired to carry out a hit in Italy before his death. Vladimir Tatarenkov (), who said that an investigation of Anatoly Bykov needed Solonik as a witness, disputed this. See also
List of prison escapes

Notes

References

1960 births
1997 deaths
1997 murders in Greece
Contract killers
Crime in Athens
Deaths by strangulation
Double agents
Escapees from Russian detention
Escapees from Soviet detention
Fugitives
Mafia hitmen
Male murder victims
Murdered Russian gangsters
People convicted of murder by Russia
People from Kurgan, Kurgan Oblast
People murdered in Greece
Russian escapees
Russian gangsters
Russian mass murderers
Russian people convicted of murder
Russian people murdered abroad
Russian rapists