[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Propulsion Mechanics | Topic: Flying Machines — W.J. Jackman (early aerodynamics) | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Flying Machines — W.J. Jackman (early aerodynamics) — Overview

and that possible for want of beyng sufficiently instructed and informed or taught touching this matter, I haue bene so much the more willing to ease them in this question, by how much I hope to profit in common, that is, to do good to the greatest multitude, as also being willing hereby to satisfy some which haue earnestly and instantly required it at my handes. Now to answeare them which demaund and aske a playne peece or text of
Scripture in which daunses should be forbidden, let them know that
there be many wicked and euill thinges which are not euidently and
playnly expressed in the Scripture, to be forbidden, notwithstanding
they bee of the same kynd and nature, or else dependences of some
thynges which are therein expressed, and under which they ought to be
comprehended, or els when the contrary of these things is praised and
commended, we are sufficiently taught and instructed to cast them
away, as things condemned by the holy Ghost, because ther is one & the
selfe same reason in contrary things. I will place, & put in the order or rowe of the first, playes and
daunses: I meane such playes as by which man draweth or getteth to
hymselfe, his neighboures money. It is true that wee fynd not in the
Scripture these words. Thou shalt not play, but wee find indeede these
wordes. Thou shale not steale: Now that to gayne or get an other mans
money at play shoulde not be a most manifest & plaine thieuery: none
of sound iudgement will denie it. For hee which hath wonne or gotten
it, by what title or right can he say, that such money is his: Verily
when we get or win the money, or the goods of our brother, it must be
with the sweate of our face or browe, & that our laboure bringe him
some profite, that is to be profitable unto him: and euen as we
receaue his money or good: so must hee thorow our diligence and
trauaile receaue some profite. But when a man hath gotten his money by
the hazard or chaunce, as a man would say, of play, I pray you what
commoditye and profite commeth to him thereby: we must then conclude,
that this is a kind of theft: which although it be not playnly
expressed in the holye scripture, yet neuertheles it ought to bee
referred to the eight commaundement, in which it is sayd, Thou shalt
not steale. The like is of daunses which wee may put in the first & second row or
order. For although wee haue not any playne and expresse forbidding,
where it should be sayd, Thou shalt not daunse, yet we haue a formall
and plaine commaundement, Thou shalt not commit adultery, or
whoredome: to which the daunses ought to be referred. [Sidenote: A
definition of daunses.]  Now if one would aske me what daunses were: I
wil answeare, that considering the sway which they haue at this day
amongest us Cristians, they bee nothing else but impudent, shameles,
and dissolute gestures, by which the lust of the flesh is awaked,
stirred by, and inflamed, as wel in men as in women. [Sidenote:
Deut. 22. Titus. 2.]  Bat if honesty, modesty, and sobernes, be
required in apparaile, & adorning of mens selues, as we see that it is
commended and commaunded in Deuteronomie, & seing that S. Paule also
in his epistle to Titus, willeth that there should be among us a sober
and holy countenaunce, singularly and specially in women, which
ordinarily be very curious in their garmentes, it is certayne and
sure, that there is some poyson or venym hidden under the
grasse. [Sidenote: I. Pet. 3.]  And because it is so, S. Peter in his
first canonicall or generall epistle, forbiddeth that women should
appeare, shew, and sett out themselues by theyr apparayle and
neatnes. Add that in many other places of the sayd holy scripture, the
diuersity and difference in attire and garmentes, is condemned, as
prouoking to whoredome, and slipperines, by more stronge reason the
dissolute and lewde gestures, which be practised by the proper and
owne members of a mans bodye, ought to be cutt of, and banished from
among christians. [Sidenote: Jud. 23.]  And S. Jude exhorteth us, to
haue, yea and that in hatred the garment which is defiled by the
flesh, meaning under this figure & manner of speech, all inticementes
& allurements which might draw us to any pollution, uncleannes, and
fylthynes: what ought we to iudge in the excellency (as a man woulde
say) value and estimation of the flesh itselfe, which is so polluted
and defyled, that it bringeth forth, and setteth out the pollution and
filthines thereof, by villanous and dishonest gestures. [Sidenote:
Ephe. 4. 29. Colos. 3.]  And when S. Paule in his epistles to the
Ephesians and Colossians, forbiddeth us all corrupt, infected, and
filthy speech, or woordes, is there not at the least as much, or as
greate occasion: [Sidenote: The eies.]  yea more or greater to
condemne dissolute and lewd gestures: for as concerning dishonest and
unmeete woordes, they be gathered or receaued with our eares onely,
but as for villanous & dishonest gestures, they be so many obiects, or
thinges set before our eyes, as if one shoulde set before us a painted
table, in which all villany infection, and filthines should be liuely
pourtraited and set out.