[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: pharmacognosy medicinal plant active compound isol | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: pharmacognosy medicinal plant active compound isolation]

52. Malar J. 2011 Mar 15;10 Suppl 1(Suppl 1):S3. doi: 10.1186/1475-2875-10-S1-S3.

Natural products as starting points for future anti-malarial therapies: going 
back to our roots?

Wells TN(1).

Author information:
(1)Medicines for Malaria Venture, 20 rte de Pré-Bois, CH-1215 Geneva, 
Switzerland. wellst@mmv.org

BACKGROUND: The discovery and development of new anti-malarials are at a 
crossroads. Fixed dose artemisinin combination therapy is now being used to 
treat a hundred million children each year, with a cost as low as 30 cents per 
child, with cure rates of over 95%. However, as with all anti-infective 
strategies, this triumph brings with it the seeds of its own downfall, the 
emergence of resistance. It takes ten years to develop a new medicine. New 
classes of medicines to combat malaria, as a result of infection by Plasmodium 
falciparum and Plasmodium vivax are urgently needed.
RESULTS: Natural product scaffolds have been the basis of the majority of 
current anti-malarial medicines. Molecules such as quinine, lapachol and 
artemisinin were originally isolated from herbal medicinal products. After 
improvement with medicinal chemistry and formulation technologies, and 
combination with other active ingredients, they now make up the current 
armamentarium of medicines. In recent years advances in screening technologies 
have allowed testing of millions of compounds from pharmaceutical diversity for 
anti-malarial activity in cellular assays. These initiatives have resulted in 
thousands of new sub-micromolar active compounds - starting points for new drug 
discovery programmes. Against this backdrop, the paucity of potent natural 
products identified has been disappointing. Now is a good time to reflect on the 
current approach to screening herbal medicinal products and suggest revisions. 
Nearly sixty years ago, the Chinese doctor Chen Guofu, suggested natural 
products should be approached by dao-xing-ni-shi or 'acting in the reversed 
order', starting with observational clinical studies. Natural products based on 
herbal remedies are in use in the community, and have the potential unique 
advantage that clinical observational data exist, or can be generated. The first 
step should be the confirmation and definition of the clinical activity of 
herbal medicinal products already used by the community. This first step forms a 
solid basis of observations, before moving to in vivo pharmacological 
characterization and ultimately identifying the active ingredient. A large part 
of the population uses herbal medicinal products despite limited numbers of 
well-controlled clinical studies. Increased awareness by the regulators and 
public health bodies of the need for safety information on herbal medicinal 
products also lends support to obtaining more clinical data on such products.
CONCLUSIONS: The relative paucity of new herbal medicinal product scaffolds 
active against malaria results discovered in recent years suggest it is time to 
re-evaluate the 'smash and grab' approach of randomly testing purified natural 
products and replace it with a patient-data led approach. This will require a 
change of perspective form many in the field. It will require an investment in 
standardisation in several areas, including: the ethnopharmacology and design 
and reporting of clinical observation studies, systems for characterizing 
anti-malarial activity of patient plasma samples ex vivo followed by chemical 
and pharmacological characterisation of extracts from promising sources. Such 
work falls outside of the core mandate of the product development partnerships, 
such as MMV, and so will require additional support. This call is timely, given 
the strong interest from researchers in disease endemic countries to support the 
research arm of a malaria eradication agenda. Para-national institutions such as 
the African Network for Drugs and Diagnostics Innovation (ANDi) will play a 
major role in facilitating the development of their natural products patrimony 
and possibly clinical best practice to bring forward new therapeutics. As in the 
past, with quinine, lapinone and artemisinin, once the activity of herbal 
medicinal products in humans is characterised, it can be used to identify new 
molecular scaffolds which will form the basis of the next generation of 
anti-malarial therapies.

DOI: 10.1186/1475-2875-10-S1-S3
PMCID: PMC3059461
PMID: 21411014 [Indexed for MEDLINE]