[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Complex Circuit Systems | Topic: Techniques for low power analog, digital and mixed signal CM | Type: OpenAlex-OA | Level: Graduate]

[OpenAlex | Circuit Engineering | Year: 2005 | Citations: 9]

Title: Techniques for low power analog, digital and mixed signal CMOS integrated circuit design

Abstract:
With the continuously expanding of market for portable devices such as wireless communication devices, portable computers, consumer electronics and implantable medical devices, low power is becoming increasingly important in integrated circuits. The low power design can increase operation time and/or utilize a smaller size and lighter-weight battery. In this dissertation, several low power complementary metal-oxide-semiconductor (CMOS) integrated circuit design techniques are investigated. A metal-oxide-semiconductor field effect transistor (MOSFET) can be operated at a lower voltage by forward-biasing the source-substrate junction. This approach has been investigated in detail and used to designing an ultra-low power CMOS operational amplifier for operation at ± 0.4 V. The issue of CMOS latchup and noise has been investigated in detail because of the forward biasing of the substrates of MOSFETs in CMOS. With increasing forward body-bias, the leakage current increases significantly. Dynamic threshold MOSFET (DTMOS) technique is proposed to overcome the drawback which is inherent in a forward-biased MOSFET. By using the DTMOS method with the forward source-body biased MOSFET, two low-power low-voltage CMOS VLSI circuits that of a CMOS analog multiplexer and a Schmitt trigger circuits are designed. In this dissertation, an adaptive body-bias technique is proposed. Adaptive body-bias voltage is generated for several operational frequencies. Another issue, which the chip design community is facing, is the development of portable, cost effective and low power supply voltage. This dissertation proposes a new cost-effective DC/DC converter design in standard 1.5 um n-well CMOS, which adopts a delay-line controller for voltage regulation.