[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: laser dermatology skin treatment tattoo hair | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: laser dermatology skin treatment tattoo hair]

11. Dermatol Surg. 2025 Feb 1;51(2):113-122. doi: 10.1097/DSS.0000000000004542.

The History and Advancement of Light, Lasers, and Energy-Based Devices in 
Dermatologic Surgery.

Dover JS(1)(2)(3), Liu C(4), Watchmaker J(5), Wang JV(6), Geronemus RG(6)(7), 
Arndt KA(1)(3), Anderson RR(8)(9).

Author information:
(1)SkinCare Physicians, Chestnut Hill, Massachusetts.
(2)Department of Dermatology, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, 
Connecticut.
(3)Department of Dermatology, Brown University, Providence, Rhode Island.
(4)Department of Dermatology and Skin Science, University of British Columbia, 
Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada.
(5)Southwest Skin Specialists, Scottsdale, Arizona.
(6)Laser and Skin Surgery Center of New York, New York, New York.
(7)The Ronald O. Perelman Department of Dermatology, New York, New York.
(8)Wellman Center for Photomedicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, 
Massachusetts.
(9)Department of Dermatology, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts.

BACKGROUND: From the theoretical foundations of laser and energy-based 
applications for the skin to the development of advanced medical devices, the 
field of dermatologic surgery has undergone transformative changes.
OBJECTIVE: To review the scientific and clinical advancement of laser and 
energy-based therapies within dermatologic surgery.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A literature search was conducted to identify important 
scientific advancements and landmark studies on light, laser, and energy-based 
devices within the field of dermatologic surgery.
RESULTS: Since the introduction of selective photothermolysis principles in the 
1980s, numerous laser and energy-based devices have been developed to 
effectively treat vascular lesions, target pigmentation, remove tattoos, 
rejuvenate the skin, and remove hair. Beyond aesthetic applications, 
photodynamic therapy was introduced to treat various neoplastic and inflammatory 
conditions. Lasers have also been employed to enhance transcutaneous drug 
delivery, and new lasers continue to emerge for treating common inflammatory 
conditions, such as acne. These innovations have contributed to a paradigm shift 
toward safe and effective, but less invasive, procedure-based treatment in 
addressing medical and aesthetic concerns in dermatology.
CONCLUSION: Dermatologists have consistently led the way in the continuous 
development and innovative application of laser and energy-based devices to 
effectively address a variety of skin conditions.

Copyright © 2025 by the American Society for Dermatologic Surgery, Inc. 
Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1097/DSS.0000000000004542
PMID: 39847419 [Indexed for MEDLINE]