[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: phytotherapy systematic review clinical evidence | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: phytotherapy systematic review clinical evidence]

5. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2020 Nov 3;11(11):CD003229. doi: 
10.1002/14651858.CD003229.pub4.

Phlebotonics for venous insufficiency.

Martinez-Zapata MJ(1), Vernooij RW(2), Simancas-Racines D(3), Uriona Tuma SM(4), 
Stein AT(5), Moreno Carriles RMM(6), Vargas E(7), Bonfill Cosp X(8).

Author information:
(1)Iberoamerican Cochrane Centre, Biomedical Research Institute Sant Pau (IIB 
Sant Pau), CIBER Epidemiología y Salud Pública (CIBERESP), Barcelona, Spain.
(2)Department of Nephrology and Hypertension and Julius Center for Health 
Sciences and Primary Care, University Medical Center Utrecht, Utrecht, 
Netherlands.
(3)Cochrane Ecuador. Centro de Investigación en Salud Pública y Epidemiología 
Clínica (CISPEC). Facultad de Ciencias de la Salud Eugenio Espejo, Universidad 
Tecnológica Equinoccial, Quito, Ecuador.
(4)Preventive Medicine and Public Health, Vall Hebron University Hospital, 
Barcelona, Spain.
(5)Department of Public Health, Universidade Federal de Ciências da Saúde, Porto 
Alegre, Brazil.
(6)Angiology, Vascular and Endovascular Surgery, Universitary Hospital La 
Princesa, Madrid, Spain.
(7)Hospital Clínico San Carlos. Universidad Complutense de Madrid, Madrid, 
Spain.
(8)Iberoamerican Cochrane Centre, Biomedical Research Institute Sant Pau (IIB 
Sant Pau), Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona, CIBER Epidemiología y Salud 
Pública (CIBERESP), Barcelona, Spain.

Update of
    Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2016 Apr 06;4:CD003229. doi: 
10.1002/14651858.CD003229.pub3.

BACKGROUND: Chronic venous insufficiency (CVI) is a condition in which veins are 
unable to transport blood unidirectionally towards the heart. CVI usually occurs 
in the lower limbs. It might result in considerable discomfort, with symptoms 
such as pain, itchiness and tiredness in the legs. Patients with CVI may also 
experience swelling and ulcers. Phlebotonics are a class of drugs often used to 
treat CVI. This is the second update of a review first published in 2005.
OBJECTIVES: To assess the efficacy and safety of phlebotonics administered 
orally or topically for treatment of signs and symptoms of lower extremity CVI.
SEARCH METHODS: The Cochrane Vascular Information Specialist searched the 
Cochrane Vascular Specialised Register, CENTRAL, MEDLINE, Embase, and CINAHL 
databases and the World Health Organization International Clinical Trials 
Registry Platform and Clinicaltrials.gov trials register up to 12 November 2019. 
We searched the reference lists of the articles retrieved by electronic searches 
for additional citations. We also contacted authors of unpublished studies.
SELECTION CRITERIA: We included randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled 
trials (RCTs) assessing the efficacy of phlebotonics (rutosides, hidrosmine, 
diosmine, calcium dobesilate, chromocarbe, Centella asiatica, disodium 
flavodate, French maritime pine bark extract, grape seed extract and aminaftone) 
in patients with CVI at any stage of the disease.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Two review authors independently extracted data 
and assessed the quality of included RCTs. We estimated the effects of treatment 
by using risk ratios (RRs), mean differences (MDs) and standardized mean 
differences (SMDs), according to the outcome assessed. We calculated 95% 
confidence intervals (CIs) and percentage of heterogeneity (I2). Outcomes of 
interest were oedema, quality of life (QoL), assessment of CVI and adverse 
events. We used GRADE criteria to assess the certainty of the evidence.
MAIN RESULTS: We identified three new studies for this update. In total, 69 RCTs 
of oral phlebotonics were included, but only 56 studies (7690 participants, mean 
age 50 years) provided quantifiable data for the efficacy analysis. These 
studies used different phlebotonics (28 on rutosides, 11 on hidrosmine and 
diosmine, 10 on calcium dobesilate, two on Centella asiatica, two on aminaftone, 
two on French maritime pine bark extract and one on grape seed extract). No 
studies evaluating topical phlebotonics, chromocarbe, naftazone or disodium 
flavodate fulfilled the inclusion criteria. Moderate-certainty evidence suggests 
that phlebotonics probably reduce oedema slightly in the lower legs, compared 
with placebo (RR 0.70, 95% CI 0.63 to 0.78; 13 studies; 1245 participants); and 
probably reduce ankle circumference (MD -4.27 mm, 95% CI -5.61 to -2.93 mm; 15 
studies; 2010 participants). Moderate-certainty evidence shows that phlebotonics 
probably make little or no difference in QoL compared with placebo (SMD -0.06, 
95% CI -0.22 to 0.10; five studies; 1639 participants); and similarly, may have 
little or no effect on ulcer healing (RR 0.94, 95% CI 0.79 to 1.13; six studies; 
461 participants; low-certainty evidence). Thirty-seven studies reported on 
adverse events. Pooled data suggest that phlebotonics probably increase adverse 
events slightly, compared to placebo (RR 1.14, 95% CI 1.02 to 1.27; 37 studies; 
5789 participants; moderate-certainty evidence). Gastrointestinal disorders were 
the most frequently reported adverse events. We downgraded our certainty in the 
evidence from 'high' to 'moderate' because of risk of bias concerns, and further 
to 'low' because of imprecision.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: There is moderate-certainty evidence that phlebotonics 
probably reduce oedema slightly, compared to placebo; moderate-certainty 
evidence of little or no difference in QoL; and low-certainty evidence that 
these drugs do not influence ulcer healing. Moderate-certainty evidence suggests 
that phlebotonics are probably associated with a higher risk of adverse events 
than placebo. Studies included in this systematic review provided only 
short-term safety data; therefore, the medium- and long-term safety of 
phlebotonics could not be estimated. Findings for specific groups of 
phlebotonics are limited due to small study numbers and heterogeneous results. 
Additional high-quality RCTs focusing on clinically important outcomes are 
needed to improve the evidence base.

Copyright © 2020 The Cochrane Collaboration. Published by John Wiley & Sons, 
Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD003229.pub4
PMCID: PMC8094625
PMID: 33141449 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: MJM: none known. RWMV: none known. DS: none 
known. SMU: none known. ATS: none known. RMM: none known. EV: none known. XBC: 
none known. Dr RM Moreno, Dr X Bonfill Cosp and Dr MJ Martínez‐Zapata were 
authors of a published double‐blind, placebo‐controlled clinical trial 
(Martinez‐Zapata 2008) that is included in this review. This study was supported 
by Laboratorios Dr Esteve, which markets calcium dobesilate (Doxium). 
Laboratorios Dr Esteve signed a written commitment to fully respect the 
researchers' independence and to allow dissemination of results, whatever they 
could be. Furthermore, Dr RM Moreno, Dr X Bonfill Cosp and Dr MJ Martínez‐Zapata 
were researchers in the included clinical trial DOBESILATO500/2, which was 
prematurely interrupted because of lack of funding. Dr RM Moreno, Dr X Bonfill 
Cosp and Dr MJ Martínez‐Zapata have not been involved in study selection, data 
analysis, ROB and GRADE assessment of these cited clinical trials.