[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: William Pole-Tylney-Long-Wellesley, 4th Earl of Mornington | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# William Pole-Tylney-Long-Wellesley, 4th Earl of Mornington — Overview

on 15 November 1830. He was returned and as a knight of the shire (MP) for Essex (in which lay Wanstead) from 1831 to 1832. In the years following Catherine's death, he sought to regain control over his children, who were in the care of Catherine's two unmarried sisters, Dorothy and Emma. He was especially interested in William, the eldest, on whom Catherine's fortune had devolved. His uncle, the Duke, fighting one of his furious defensive actions, intervened on behalf of the children to keep the hapless William from his father. Deprived of the custody of his children by the Court of Chancery, he was committed to the Fleet prison by Lord Brougham in July 1831 for contempt of court; Long-Wellesley invoked parliamentary privilege, but his plea was rejected by the committee of privileges of the House of Commons. For some time he was in and out of court on charges of libel, and various other matters relating to his quest for custody of his children. Decline and death
He led a very dissipated life and lived for a time in Brussels to avoid his creditors. In his last years, he lived on a small pension of £10 a week allowed by his cousin Arthur Wellesley, 2nd Duke of Wellington. From 1842 he was styled Viscount Wellesley, and succeeded his father as Earl of Mornington in 1845. He died in lodgings in Thayer Street, Manchester Square, London, on 1 July 1857, from heart disease. The obituary notice three days later in the Morning Chronicle claimed that he was "A spendthrift, a profligate, and a gambler in his youth, he became debauched in his manhood... redeemed by no single virtue, adorned by no single grace, his life gone out even without a flicker of repentance". His coffin is in Catacomb B, Kensal Green Cemetery, London. References
 
Dictionary of National Biography

Further reading 

Tim Couzens, Hand of Fate: The History of the Longs, Wellesleys and the Draycot Estate in Wiltshire (2001), 
Cheryl Nicol, Inheriting the Earth: The Long Family's 500 Year Reign in Wiltshire; Cheryl Nicol
Geraldine Roberts, The Angel & The Cad: Love Loss and Scandal in Regency England (London: MacMillan, 2015)
Greg Roberts, Blog dedicated to the scandalous life of 'Wicked William' Pole-Tylney-Long-Wellesley

External links 
 

}}

1788 births
1857 deaths
19th-century Anglo-Irish people
Pole-Tylney-Long-Wellesley, William
English people of Irish descent
Gentlemen Ushers
Members of the Parliament of the United Kingdom for St Ives
Pole-Tylney-Long-Wellesley, William
Inmates of Fleet Prison
Pole-Tylney-Long-Wellesley, William
Pole-Tylney-Long-Wellesley, William
Pole-Tylney-Long-Wellesley, William
Pole-Tylney-Long-Wellesley, William
Pole-Tylney-Long-Wellesley, William
Mornington, E4
William Pole-Tylney-Long-Wellesley, 4th Earl of Mornington
Ultra-Tory MPs
Earls of Mornington