[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: cannabis cannabidiol therapeutic epilepsy pain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: cannabis cannabidiol therapeutic epilepsy pain]

71. Drugs R D. 2003;4(5):306-9. doi: 10.2165/00126839-200304050-00005.

Cannabis-based medicines--GW pharmaceuticals: high CBD, high THC, medicinal 
cannabis--GW pharmaceuticals, THC:CBD.

[No authors listed]

GW Pharmaceuticals is undertaking a major research programme in the UK to 
develop and market distinct cannabis-based prescription medicines [THC:CBD, High 
THC, High CBD] in a range of medical conditions. The cannabis for this programme 
is grown in a secret location in the UK. It is expected that the product will be 
marketed in the US in late 2003. GW's cannabis-based products include selected 
phytocannabinoids from cannabis plants, including D9 tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) 
and cannabidiol (CBD). The company is investigating their use in three delivery 
systems, including sublingual spray, sublingual tablet and inhaled (but not 
smoked) dosage forms. The technology is protected by patent applications. Four 
different formulations are currently being investigated, including High THC, 
THC:CBD (narrow ratio), THC:CBD (broad ratio) and High CBD. GW is also 
developing a specialist security technology that will be incorporated in all its 
drug delivery systems. This technology allows for the recording and remote 
monitoring of patient usage to prevent any potential abuse of its cannabis-based 
medicines. GW plans to enter into agreements with other companies following 
phase III development, to secure the best commercialisation terms for its 
cannabis-based medicines. In June 2003, GW announced that exclusive 
commercialisation rights for the drug in the UK had been licensed to Bayer AG. 
The drug will be marketed under the Sativex brand name. This agreement also 
provides Bayer with an option to expand their license to include the European 
Union and certain world markets. GW was granted a clinical trial exemption 
certificate by the Medicines Control Agency to conduct clinical studies with 
cannabis-based medicines in the UK. The exemption includes investigations in the 
relief of pain of neurological origin and defects of neurological function in 
the following indications: multiple sclerosis (MS), spinal cord injury, 
peripheral nerve injury, central nervous system damage, neuroinvasive cancer, 
dystonias, cerebral vascular accident and spina bifida, as well as for the 
relief of pain and inflammation in rheumatoid arthritis and also pain relief in 
brachial plexus injury. The UK Government stated that it would be willing to 
amend the Misuse of Drugs Act 1971 to permit the introduction of a 
cannabis-based medicine. GW stated in its 2002 Annual Report that it was 
currently conducting five phase III trials of its cannabis derivatives, 
including a double-blind, placebo-controlled trial with a sublingual spray 
containing High THC in more than 100 patients with cancer pain in the UK. Also 
included is a phase III trial of THC:CBD (narrow ratio) being conducted in 
patients with severe pain due to brachial plexus injury, as are two more phase 
III trials of THC:CBD (narrow ratio) targeting spasticity and bladder 
dysfunction in multiple sclerosis patients. Another phase III trial of THC:CBD 
(narrow ratio) in patients with spinal cord injury is also being conducted. 
Results from the trials are expected during 2003. Three additional trials are 
also in the early stages of planning. These trials include a phase I trial of 
THC:CBD (broad ratio) in patients with inflammatory bowel disease, a phase I 
trial of High CBD in patients with psychotic disorders such as schizophrenia, 
and a preclinical trial of High CBD in various CNS disorders (including 
epilepsy, stroke and head injury). GW Pharmaceuticals submitted an application 
for approval of cannabis-based medicines to UK regulatory authorities in March 
2003. Originally GW hoped to market cannabis-based prescription medicines by 
2004, but is now planning for a launch in the UK towards the end of 2003. 
Several trials for GW's cannabis derivatives have also been completed, including 
four randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled phase III clinical trials 
conducted in the UK. The trials were initiated by GW in April 2002, to 
investigate the use of a sublingual spray containing THC:CBD (narrow ratio) in 
the following medical conditions: pain in spinal cord injury, pain and sleep in 
MS and spinal cord injury, neuropathic pain in MS and general neuropathic pain 
(presented as allodynia). Results from these trials show that THC:CBD (narrow 
ratio) caused statistically significant reductions in neuropathic pain in 
patients with MS and other conditions. In addition, improvements in other MS 
symptoms were observed as well. Phase II studies of THC:CBD (narrow ratio) have 
also been completed in patients with MS, spinal cord injury, neuropathic pain 
and a small number of patients with peripheral neuropathy secondary to diabetes 
mellitus or AIDS. A phase II trial of THC:CBD (broad ratio) has also been 
completed in a small number of patients with rheumatoid arthritis, as has a 
trial of High CBD in patients with neurogenic symptoms. A phase II trial has 
also been evaluated with High THC in small numbers of patients for the treatment 
of perioperative pain. The phase II trials provided positive results and 
confirmed an excellent safety profile for cannabis-based medicines. GW 
Pharmaceuticals received an IND approval to commence phase II clinical trials in 
Canada in patients with chronic pain, multiple sclerosis and spinal cord injury 
in 2002. Following meetings with the US FDA, Drug Enforcement Agency (DEA), the 
Office for National Drug Control Policy, and National Institute for Drug Abuse, 
GW was granted an import license from the DEA and has imported its first 
cannabis extracts into the US. Preclinical research with these extracts in the 
US is ongoing.

DOI: 10.2165/00126839-200304050-00005
PMID: 12952500 [Indexed for MEDLINE]