[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: cannabis cannabidiol therapeutic epilepsy pain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: cannabis cannabidiol therapeutic epilepsy pain]

85. Value Health. 2021 Oct;24(10):1520-1530. doi: 10.1016/j.jval.2021.04.1276.
Epub  2021 Jul 17.

Cost-Effectiveness of Medicinal Cannabis for Management of Refractory Symptoms 
Associated With Chronic Conditions: A Systematic Review of Economic Evaluations.

Erku D(1), Shrestha S(2), Scuffham P(3).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Applied Health Economics, Griffith University, Nathan, Queensland, 
Australia; Menzies Health Institute Queensland, Griffith University, Gold Coast, 
Queensland, Australia. Electronic address: d.erku@griffith.edu.au.
(2)School of Pharmacy, University of Queensland, Brisbane, Queensland, 
Australia.
(3)Centre for Applied Health Economics, Griffith University, Nathan, Queensland, 
Australia; Menzies Health Institute Queensland, Griffith University, Gold Coast, 
Queensland, Australia.

OBJECTIVES: Although there is a growing body of evidence suggesting that 
cannabinoids may relieve symptoms of some illnesses, they are relatively 
high-cost therapies compared with illicit growth and supply. This article aimed 
to comprehensively review economic evaluations of medicinal cannabis for 
alleviating refractory symptoms associated with chronic conditions.
METHODS: Seven electronic databases were searched for articles published up to 
September 6, 2020. The quality of reporting of economic evaluations was assessed 
using the Consolidated Health Economic Evaluation Reporting Standards checklist. 
The extracted data were grouped into subcategories according to types of medical 
conditions, organized into tables, and reported narratively.
RESULTS: This review identified 12 cost-utility analyses conducted across a 
variety of diseases including multiple sclerosis (MS) (N = 8), pediatric 
drug-resistant epilepsies (N = 2), and chronic pain (N = 2). The incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio varied widely from cost saving to more than US$451 800 
per quality-adjusted life-year depending on the setting, perspectives, types of 
medicinal cannabis, and indications. Nabiximols is a cost-effective intervention 
for MS spasticity in multiple European settings. Cannabidiol was found to be a 
cost-effective for Dravet syndrome in a Canadian setting whereas a cost-utility 
analysis conducted in a US setting deemed cannabidiol to be not cost-effective 
for Lennox-Gastaut syndrome. Overall study quality was good, with publications 
meeting 70% to 100% (median 83%) of the Consolidated Health Economic Evaluation 
Reporting Standards checklist criteria.
CONCLUSIONS: Medicinal cannabis-based products may be cost-effective treatment 
options for MS spasticity, Dravet syndrome, and neuropathic pain, although the 
literature is nascent. Well-designed clinical trials and health economic 
evaluations are needed to generate adequate clinical and cost-effectiveness 
evidence to assist in resource allocation.

Copyright © 2021 ISPOR–The Professional Society for Health Economics and 
Outcomes Research. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jval.2021.04.1276
PMID: 34593176 [Indexed for MEDLINE]