[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: Iris lacustris | Type: Instruction-QA | Level: Graduate]

Question: Provide a comprehensive expert-level explanation of Iris lacustris in the context of Applied Sciences.

Answer:
Iris lacustris, the dwarf lake iris, is a plant species in the genus Iris, subgenus Limniris and in the section Lophiris (crested irises). It is a rhizomatous, beardless perennial plant,  native to the Great Lakes region of eastern North America. It has lavender blue or violet-blue flowers, a very short stem
and long fan-like green leaves. It is cultivated as an ornamental plant in temperate regions. It is closely related to Iris cristata (another North American crested iris).

Description
It is similar in form to Iris cristata but is chromosomally different and smaller.

It has slender, wiry, or cord-like, greenish-brown, or yellow rhizomes. It has a large central section and outer sections, which are  long and 0.8–1.2 cm wide. The outer sections have fibrous roots (underneath), and 2–3 brown scale-like leaves above.
It creeps across the ground, creating thick clumps of plants.

It has 8–12 sheathing, (fan-like), green or light green, basal leaves. They are falcate (sickle-shaped) or sword-shaped, and linear, and  long and 10–8 mm wide. 
After flowering, the leaves elongate up to  long and 10 mm wide.

When the plant is not in flower, the leaves of the iris might be confused with false asphodel, (Triantha glutinosa, a white flowered member of the lily family whose leaves are much narrower) which lives in similar habitats. Although, the flower stem of false asphodel is much longer than that of iris and very sticky.

It has very short stems, which are  long. The stems and flowers are shorter than the leaves.

It has green spathes (leaves of the flower bud), which are slightly keeled, and  long. They have scarious (membranous) edges.

The short stems have 1 to 2 flowers, in Spring, or summer (in Europe), in April, or May, or early June, or July. In Spring, it can flower up to 7 to 10 days earlier than Iris cristata, and it can have later flush of flowers in the fall (or Autumn), or October.

The flowers are  in diameter, come in shades of blue, violet-blue, sky blue, deep blue, lavender blue, lilac, or deep purple.
A white form has occasionally, also been found.

It has 2 pairs of petals, 3 large sepals (outer petals), known as the 'falls' and 3 inner, smaller petals (or tepals), known as the 'standards'.
The obovate shaped, falls are  long and 0.8 cm wide. They taper towards the claw (section closest to the stem). They have a white signal patch, which has a deep violet margin, and 3 central, orange, gold, or yellow and white toothed (or fimbriated – fringed) ridges (or crests). The signal patch guides bumblebees in to the middle of the flower, to pollinate it. The standards are narrowly oblanceolate,  long and 0.4–0.5 cm wide. They are shorter and narrower than the falls.

It has a yellow funnel-like, perianth tube, which is 1–2 cm long. The tube is shorter than Iris cristata.
It has a trigonal (or triangular), ovary, which is 0.8–1 cm long. It has a 1–2 cm long style, which has linear crests and wavy (crenate) edges. The style arm guides bumblebees to the lower section of the sepal, to reach the nectar.

After the iris has flowered, between late June to late July, it produces a roundly triangular, or ovoid, seed capsule, which is covered by the spathes. The capsules are 1.2 mm long and 8 mm wide. Inside the capsule, are 3 mm wide, dark brown seeds, which have a white appendage (or aril, fleshy thickening of seed coat), spiralled around the seed. This spiral or corkscrew-like appendage is called an eliaosome. The eliaosomes are used as energy-rich food sources by ants, who help pollinate the plant.

Biochemistry
In 1994, a study was carried out on the genetic make-up of Iris lacustris.

In 2000, a study was carried out on Iris cristata and Iris lacustris, looking at the genetic variation of both irises.

As most irises are diploid, having two sets of chromosomes, this can be used to identify hybrids and classification of groupings.
It has been counted several times, 2n=42, Simonet, 1934; n=21, 2n=42, Chimphamba, 1973 and 2n=32, Pringle, 1976. It is normally published as 2n = 32, 42.

Taxonomy

The Latin name is pronounced Iris (EYE-ris) lacustris (lak-US-triss).

It has the common name of dwarf lake iris, lake iris, and Great Lakes iris.

The Latin specific epithet lacustris means "of lakes".

The iris was found on Mackinac Island in 1810 by Thomas Nuttall. The botanist travelled from Detroit by canoe with French Canadian voyagers and the surveyor for the Michigan Territory.

It was first then published and described by Thomas Nuttall, in 'The Genera of North American Plants' (published in Philadelphia, USA) Volume 1, Issue 23 on 14 July 1818.

An illustration of the iris was published in Wild flowers of the United States by Rickett, plate 11 in 1966.

It was verified by United States Department of Agriculture and the Agricultural Research Service on 15 April 1994, then updated on 3 December 2004.

It is a close relative to Iris cristata, the only other crested iris native to North America. However, unlike it, Iris lacustris is found only in small areas of the Great Lakes region that have been glacier-free for only 11,000 years. It was once thought to be a form of Iris cristata, (by William Rickatson Dykes in 1913 and other authors), later chromosomal studies confirmed the two were separate species.

Distribution and habitat

Iris lacustris is native to temperate regions of northern America.

Range
It is found in Canada, within the province of Ontario (on the Bruce Peninsula and Manitoulin Island).

It is found in U.S.A., within the states of Michigan, Wisconsin, and, infrequently in Ohio.

It is found on northern shores and smaller islands of Lake Michigan, Lake Huron, and Lake Superior, within the Great Lakes region.

The majority of iris populations are within 500 m of the shore of Lake Huron, but the largest ones can occur up several kilometres away from the lake.

Habitat
It grows on the Great Lakes shorelines in cool, moist lake shore air.

It is found on sand, or in thin soil over