[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: traditional Chinese medicine herbs mechanism actio | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: traditional Chinese medicine herbs mechanism action]

35. Front Pharmacol. 2024 Apr 26;15:1303693. doi: 10.3389/fphar.2024.1303693. 
eCollection 2024.

A critical assessment of Traditional Chinese Medicine databases as a source for 
drug discovery.

Wang Y(1), Liu M(2), Jafari M(3), Tang J(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)School of Traditional Chinese Pharmacy, China Pharmaceutical University, 
Nanjing, China.
(2)Faculty of Life Science, Anhui Medical University, Hefei, China.
(3)Department Biochemistry and Developmental Biology, University of Helsinki, 
Helsinki, Finland.
(4)Research Program in Systems Oncology, Faculty of Medicine, University of 
Helsinki, Helsinki, Finland.

Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM) has been used for thousands of years to treat 
human diseases. Recently, many databases have been devoted to studying TCM 
pharmacology. Most of these databases include information about the active 
ingredients of TCM herbs and their disease indications. These databases enable 
researchers to interrogate the mechanisms of action of TCM systematically. 
However, there is a need for comparative studies of these databases, as they are 
derived from various resources with different data processing methods. In this 
review, we provide a comprehensive analysis of the existing TCM databases. We 
found that the information complements each other by comparing herbs, 
ingredients, and herb-ingredient pairs in these databases. Therefore, data 
harmonization is vital to use all the available information fully. Moreover, 
different TCM databases may contain various annotation types for herbs or 
ingredients, notably for the chemical structure of ingredients, making it 
challenging to integrate data from them. We also highlight the latest TCM 
databases on symptoms or gene expressions, suggesting that using multi-omics 
data and advanced bioinformatics approaches may provide new insights for drug 
discovery in TCM. In summary, such a comparative study would help improve the 
understanding of data complexity that may ultimately motivate more efficient and 
more standardized strategies towards the digitalization of TCM.

Copyright © 2024 Wang, Liu, Jafari and Tang.

DOI: 10.3389/fphar.2024.1303693
PMCID: PMC11082401
PMID: 38738181

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.