[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: Culpeper's Complete Herbal — Nicholas Culpeper | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Culpeper's Complete Herbal — Nicholas Culpeper — Overview

to frighten the little people and make them move. Now Whitefoot knew that he was safe. Hooty couldn't possibly get at him, even should he find out that he was in there. There was nothing to fear, but just the same, Whitefoot shivered and shook and jumped almost out of his skin every time that Hooty hooted. He just couldn't help it. “He can't get me. I know he can't get me. I'm perfectly safe. I'm just
as safe as if he were miles away. There's nothing to be afraid of. It is
silly to be afraid. Probably Hooty doesn't even know I am inside here. Even if he does, it doesn't really matter.” Whitefoot said these things
to himself over and over again. Then Hooty would send out that fierce,
terrible hunting call and Whitefoot would jump and shake just as before. After awhile all was still. Gradually Whitefoot stopped trembling. He
guessed that Hooty had flown away. Still he remained right where he was
for a very long time. He didn't intend to foolishly take any chances. So
he waited and waited and waited. At last he was sure that Hooty had left. Once more he climbed up to his
little round doorway and there he waited some time before poking even
his nose outside. Then, just as he had made up his mind to go out, that
terrible sound rang out again, and just as before he tumbled heels over
head down on his bed. Whitefoot didn't go out that night at all. It was a moonlight night and
just the kind of a night to be out. Instead Whitefoot lay in his little
bed and shivered and shook, for all through that long night every once
in a while Hooty the Owl would hoot from the top of that stub. CHAPTER XXIV: Whitefoot The Wood Mouse Is Unhappy

   Unhappiness without a cause you never, never find;
   It may be in the stomach, or it may be in the mind. --Whitefoot. Whitefoot the Wood Mouse should have been happy, but he wasn't. Winter
had gone and sweet Mistress Spring had brought joy to all the Green
Forest. Every one was happy, Whitefoot no less so than his neighbors at
first. Up from the Sunny South came the feathered friends and at once
began planning new homes. Twitterings and songs filled the air. Joy was
everywhere. Food became plentiful, and Whitefoot became sleek and fat. That is, he became as fat as a lively Wood Mouse ever does become. None
of his enemies had discovered his new home, and he had little to worry
about. But by and by Whitefoot began to feel less joyous. Day by day he grew
more and more unhappy. He no longer took pleasure in his fine home. He
began to wander about for no particular reason. He wandered much farther
from home than he had ever been in the habit of doing. At times he would
sit and listen, but what he was listening for he didn't know. “There
is something the matter with me, and I don't know what it is,” said
Whitefoot to himself forlornly. “It can't be anything I have eaten. I
have nothing to worry about. Yet there is something wrong with me. I'm
losing my appetite. Nothing tastes good any more. I want something, but
I don't know what it is I want.”

He tried to tell his troubles to his nearest neighbor, Timmy the Flying
Squirrel, but Timmy was too busy to listen. When Peter Rabbit happened
along, Whitefoot tried to tell him. But Peter himself was too happy and
too eager to learn all the news in the Green Forest to listen. No one
had any interest in Whitefoot's troubles. Every one was too busy with
his own affairs. So day by day Whitefoot the Wood Mouse grew more and more unhappy, and
when the dusk of early evening came creeping through the Green Forest,
he sat about and moped instead of running about and playing as he had
been in the habit of doing. The beautiful song of Melody the Wood Thrush
somehow filled him with sadness instead of with the joy he had always
felt before. The very happiness of those about him seemed to make him
more unhappy. Once he almost decided to go hunt for another home, but somehow he
couldn't get interested even in this. He did start out, but he had not
gone far before he had forgotten all about what he had started for. Always he had loved to run about and climb and jump for the pure
pleasure of it, but now he no longer did these things. He was unhappy,
was Whitefoot. Yes, sir, he was unhappy; and for no cause at all so far
as he could see. CHAPTER XXV: Whitefoot Finds Out What The Matter Was

   Pity the lonely, for deep in the heart
   Is an ache that no doctor can heal by his art. --Whitefoot. Of all the little people of the Green Forest Whitefoot seemed to be the
only one who was unhappy. And because he didn't know why he felt so he
became day by day more unhappy. Perhaps I should say that night by night
he became more unhappy, for during the brightness of the day he slept
most of the time. “There is something wrong, something wrong,” he would say over and over
to himself. “It must be with me, because everybody else is happy, and this is the
happiest time of all the year. I wish some one would tell me what ails
me.