[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: traditional Chinese medicine herbs mechanism actio | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: traditional Chinese medicine herbs mechanism action]

73. Int J Biol Sci. 2024 Oct 7;20(14):5510-5530. doi: 10.7150/ijbs.99592. 
eCollection 2024.

Recent Trends in anti-tumor mechanisms and molecular targets of celastrol.

Zhu Y(1), Meng Y(1), Zhang J(1), Liu R(2), Shen S(1), Gu L(1), Wong YK(3), Ma 
A(1), Chai X(1), Zhang Y(1), Liu Y(1), Wang J(1)(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory for Quality Ensurance and Sustainable Use of Dao-di 
Herbs, Artemisinin Research Center, and Institute of Chinese Materia Medica, 
China Academy of Chinese Medical Sciences, Beijing 100700, China.
(2)College of Animal Science and Technology, Henan Agricultural University, 
Zhengzhou 450002, China.
(3)Department of Physiology, Yong Loo Lin School of Medicine, National 
University of Singapore, Singapore 117600, Singapore.
(4)Department of Critical Care Medicine, Guangdong Provincial Clinical Research 
Center for Geriatrics, Shenzhen Clinical Research Center for Geriatric, Shenzhen 
People's Hospital (The Second Clinical Medical College, Jinan University; The 
First Affiliated Hospital, Southern University of Science and Technology), 
Shenzhen 518020, China.
(5)State Key Laboratory of Antiviral Drugs, School of Pharmacy, Henan 
University, Kaifeng, China.

Celastrol, a compound derived from traditional Chinese medicine, has therapeutic 
effects and has been used to treat inflammation-related diseases, cancer, 
cardiovascular diseases, and neurodegenerative diseases. However, current 
reviews lack a comprehensive and systematic summary of the anti-tumor mechanisms 
and molecular targets of celastrol. For this reason, this paper reviews the 
anticancer properties of celastrol and the molecular mechanisms underlying its 
anticancer effects. This paper primarily focuses on the mechanism of action of 
celastrol in terms of inhibition of cell proliferation and regulation of the 
cell cycle, regulation of apoptosis and autophagy, inhibition of cell invasion 
and metastasis, anti-inflammation, regulation of immunotherapy, and 
angiogenesis. More importantly, the target proteins of celastrol identified by 
chemical proteomics or other methods are highlighted, providing detailed targets 
with novel therapeutic potential for anti-tumor treatment. In addition, we 
describe the side effects and strategies to improve the bioavailability of 
celastrol. In summary, this paper analyzes celastrol, a natural compound with 
therapeutic effects and clear targets, aiming to draw more attention from the 
scientific and pharmacological communities and accelerating its clinical 
application for the benefit of cancer patients.

© The author(s).

DOI: 10.7150/ijbs.99592
PMCID: PMC11528459
PMID: 39494324 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interest exists.