[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: magnetic nanoparticle hyperthermia cancer therapy | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: magnetic nanoparticle hyperthermia cancer therapy]

79. Biomed Tech (Berl). 2015 Oct;60(5):491-504. doi: 10.1515/bmt-2015-0046.

Computational evaluation of amplitude modulation for enhanced magnetic 
nanoparticle hyperthermia.

Soetaert F, Dupré L, Ivkov R, Crevecoeur G.

Magnetic nanoparticles (MNPs) can interact with alternating magnetic fields 
(AMFs) to deposit localized energy for hyperthermia treatment of cancer. 
Hyperthermia is useful in the context of multimodality treatments with radiation 
or chemotherapy to enhance disease control without increased toxicity. The 
unique attributes of heat deposition and transfer with MNPs have generated 
considerable attention and have been the focus of extensive investigations to 
elucidate mechanisms and optimize performance. Three-dimensional (3D) 
simulations are often conducted with the finite element method (FEM) using the 
Pennes' bioheat equation. In the current study, the Pennes' equation was 
modified to include a thermal damage-dependent perfusion profile to improve 
model predictions with respect to known physiological responses to tissue 
heating. A normal distribution of MNPs in a model liver tumor was combined with 
empirical nanoparticle heating data to calculate tumor temperature distributions 
and resulting survival fraction of cancer cells. In addition, calculated 
spatiotemporal temperature changes were compared among magnetic field amplitude 
modulations of a base 150-kHz sinusoidal waveform, specifically, no modulation, 
sinusoidal, rectangular, and triangular modulation. Complex relationships were 
observed between nanoparticle heating and cancer tissue damage when amplitude 
modulation and damage-related perfusion profiles were varied. These results are 
tantalizing and motivate further exploration of amplitude modulation as a means 
to enhance efficiency of and overcome technical challenges associated with 
magnetic nanoparticle hyperthermia (MNH).

DOI: 10.1515/bmt-2015-0046
PMID: 26351900 [Indexed for MEDLINE]