[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Complex Circuit Systems | Topic: Binary multiplier | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Binary multiplier — Overview

number of bits for a specific precision (e.g. 32, 64, 128), rounding is required and the exponent is changed appropriately. Hardware implementation The process of multiplication can be split into 3 steps: generating partial product reducing partial product computing final product Older multiplier architectures employed a shifter and accumulator to sum each partial product, often one partial product per cycle, trading off speed for die area. Modern multiplier architectures use the (Modified) Baugh–Wooley algorithm, Wallace trees, or Dadda multipliers to add the partial products together in a single cycle. The performance of the Wallace tree implementation is sometimes improved by modified Booth encoding one of the two multiplicands, which reduces the number of partial products that must be summed. For speed, shift-and-add multipliers require a fast adder (something faster than ripple-carry). A "single cycle" multiplier (or "fast multiplier") is pure combinational logic. In a fast multiplier,
the partial-product reduction process usually contributes the most to the delay, power, and area of the multiplier. For speed, the "reduce partial product" stages are typically implemented as a carry-save adder composed of compressors and the "compute final product" step is implemented as a fast adder (something faster than ripple-carry). Many fast multipliers use full adders as compressors ("3:2 compressors") implemented in static CMOS. To achieve better performance in the same area or the same performance in a smaller area, multiplier designs may use higher order compressors such as 7:3 compressors;
implement the compressors in faster logic (such transmission gate logic, pass transistor logic, domino logic);
connect the compressors in a different pattern; or some combination. Example circuits

See also

 Booth's multiplication algorithm
 Fused multiply–add
 Wallace tree
 BKM algorithm for complex logarithms and exponentials
 Kochanski multiplication for modular multiplication
 Logical shift left

References

External links
 Multiplier Designs targeted at FPGAs
 Binary Multiplier circuit using Half -Adders and digital gates. Digital circuits
Arithmetic logic circuits
Binary arithmetic
Multiplication