[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: optical coherence tomography retinal diagnosis | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: optical coherence tomography retinal diagnosis]

51. Retina. 2016 Dec;36 Suppl 1:S178-S188. doi: 10.1097/IAE.0000000000001255.

EN FACE OPTICAL COHERENCE TOMOGRAPHY AND OPTICAL COHERENCE TOMOGRAPHY 
ANGIOGRAPHY OF MULTIPLE EVANESCENT WHITE DOT SYNDROME: New Insights Into 
Pathogenesis.

Pichi F(1), Srvivastava SK, Chexal S, Lembo A, Lima LH, Neri P, Saitta A, 
Chhablani J, Albini TA, Nucci P, Freund KB, Chung H, Lowder CY, Sarraf D.

Author information:
(1)*San Giuseppe Hospital, University Eye Clinic, Milan, Italy; †Cole Eye 
Institute, Cleveland Clinic Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio; ‡Retina Consultants of 
Austin, Texas; §Federal University of Sao Paulo (UNIFESP), Sao Paulo, Brazil; 
¶The Ocular Immunology Service, The Eye Clinic, Polytechnic University of 
Marche, Ancona, Italy; **Smt. Kanuri Santhamma Retina Vitreous Centre, L. V. 
Prasad Eye Institute, Hyderabad, India; ††Bascom Palmer Eye Institute, Miller 
School of Medicine, University of Miami, Miami, Florida; ‡‡Vitreous Retina 
Macula Consultants of New York, New York, New York; §§Department of 
Ophthalmology, Konkuk University School of Medicine, Seoul, Republic of Korea; 
¶¶Stein Eye Institute, University of California, Los Angeles, Los Angeles, 
California; and ***Greater Los Angeles VA Healthcare Center, Los Angeles, 
California.

PURPOSE: To localize the various levels of abnormalities in multiple evanescent 
white dot syndrome by comparing "en face" optical coherence tomography (OCT) and 
OCT angiography with various conventional imaging modalities.
METHODS: In this retrospective case series, multimodal imaging was performed in 
9 retinal centers on 36 patients with multiple evanescent white dot syndrome and 
included widefield fundus autofluorescence (FAF), fluorescein angiography (FA), 
and indocyanine green angiography, and B-scan and "en face" C-scan enhanced 
depth imaging and spectral domain OCT. Optical coherence tomography angiography 
was also performed at the level of the superficial and deep retinal capillary 
plexus and choroid.
RESULTS: Multiple evanescent white dot syndrome lesions were more numerous and 
more easily detectable with FA and FAF. Two types of lesions were identified 
with FAF, FA, and indocyanine green angiography: larger widely scattered "spots" 
(approximately 200 μ in diameter) that were hyperfluorescent with FA, 
hyperautofluorescent with FAF, and hyporeflective in indocyanine green 
angiography, representing abnormalities primarily at the retinal pigment 
epithelium/photoreceptor junction; and punctate "dots" (less than 100 μ in 
diameter) that were hyperfluorescent with FA, hyperautofluorescent, or 
isoautofluorescent with FAF, and hypofluorescent with indocyanine green 
angiography and that localized to the outer nuclear layer. These lesions 
colocalized with "en face" OCT. The larger confluent "spots" were hyporeflective 
and colocalized to the level of the ellipsoid zone, whereas smaller 
hyperreflective "dots" colocalized to the outer nuclear layer. The location of 
the "dots" in the outer nuclear layer was further confirmed by structural 
spectral domain optical coherence tomography which showed coalescence of the 
dots into hyperreflective lines extending from the external limiting membrane to 
the outer plexiform layer in certain cases. Optical coherence tomography 
angiography analysis of the retinal microvasculature and choriocapillaris and 
choroid were entirely unremarkable in 100% of our patients.
CONCLUSION: By combining multimodal imaging, the authors propose that multiple 
evanescent white dot syndrome is primarily the result of inflammation at the 
outer photoreceptor level leading to a "photoreceptoritis" and causing loss of 
the inner and outer segments. Its evanescent nature suggests that the 
photoreceptor cell bodies remain intact ensuring complete recovery of the 
photoreceptor inner and outer segments in most cases, compatible with the 
clinical course of spontaneous resolution of white spots and dots.

DOI: 10.1097/IAE.0000000000001255
PMID: 28005676 [Indexed for MEDLINE]