[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: Herbals: Their Origin and Evolution — Arber | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Herbals: Their Origin and Evolution — Arber — Overview

at quarters. At 10.20, discovered the Alabama steaming out from the port of Cherbourg, accompanied by a French iron-clad steamer, and a fore-and-aft rigged steamer showing the white English ensign and a yacht flag. Beat to General Quarters, and cleared the ship for action. Steamed ahead standing off shore. At 10.50, being distant from the land about two leagues, altered our course and approached the Alabama. At 10.57, the
Alabama commenced the action with her starboard broadside at 1,000 yards
range. At 11, we returned her fire, and came fairly into action, which we
continued until Merid., when observing signs of distress in the enemy,
together with a cessation of her fire, our fire was withheld. At 12.10, a
boat with an officer from the Alabama came alongside and surrendered his
vessel, with the information that she was rapidly sinking, and a request
for assistance. Sent the Launch and 2d Cutter, the other boats being
disabled by the fire of the enemy. The English yacht before mentioned,
coming within hail, was requested by the Captain (W.) to render assistance
in saving the lives of the officers and crew of the surrendered vessel. At
2.24, the Alabama went down in forty fathoms of water, leaving most of the
crew struggling in the water. Seventy persons were rescued by the boats,
two pilot boats and the yacht also assisted. One pilot boat came alongside
us, but the other returned to the port. The yacht steamed rapidly away to
the Nd. without reporting the number of our prisoners she had picked up. "(Signed) JAMES S. WHEELER, Actg. Master."

[10] According to the statement of prisoners captured, the Alabama fired
no less than three hundred and seventy times (shot and shell); more than
twice the number of the Kearsarge. [11] Captain Winslow has long been a citizen of the State of
Massachusetts.