[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: cannabis cannabidiol therapeutic epilepsy pain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: cannabis cannabidiol therapeutic epilepsy pain]

15. Eur J Pharm Sci. 2025 May 1;208:107036. doi: 10.1016/j.ejps.2025.107036. Epub
 2025 Feb 8.

Cannabidiol-A friend or a foe?

Tihăuan BM(1), Onisei T(2), Slootweg W(3), Gună D(4), Iliescu C(5), Chifiriuc 
MC(6).

Author information:
(1)Research Institute of the University of Bucharest-ICUB, 91-95 Spl. 
Independentei, 50567 Bucharest, Romania; National Institute for Research and 
Development in Food Bioresources, Dinu Vintilă Street, No.6, 021102 Bucharest, 
Romania; eBio-hub Research Centre, National University for Science and 
Technology Politehnica Bucharest, Bucharest, Romania; Academy of Romanian 
Scientists, Bucharest, Romania.
(2)National Institute for Research and Development in Food Bioresources, Dinu 
Vintilă Street, No.6, 021102 Bucharest, Romania.
(3)QB3 Research & Development, Spaarndammerstraaat 4d, 1013SV Amsterdam, 
Netherlands.
(4)S.C. Absolute Essential Oils Ltd. (AEO), Adunații Copăceni Village, Giurgiu 
County, 38 Troitei Street, 087005, Romania.
(5)eBio-hub Research Centre, National University for Science and Technology 
Politehnica Bucharest, Bucharest, Romania; Academy of Romanian Scientists, 
Bucharest, Romania; National Institute for Microtechnologies, 126A Erou Iancu 
Nicolae Street, Voluntari 077190, Romania. Electronic address: 
ciprian.iliescu@upb.ro.
(6)Research Institute of the University of Bucharest-ICUB, 91-95 Spl. 
Independentei, 50567 Bucharest, Romania. Electronic address: 
carmen.chifiriuc@unibuc.ro.

Cannabidiol (CBD), one of the main actives from Cannabis sativa has been 
perpetually explored lately for its therapeutic effects. Its main attributes, 
such as anti-inflammatory and antioxidant effects, snowball into pain 
management, epilepsy and seizure alleviation, anxiety relief, as well as 
numerous other implications through the entire metabolism. However, conventional 
administration routes challenge its therapeutic potential, with reported poor 
water solubility, hepatic degradation, gastric instability and erratic 
bioavailability observed in oral administration. As a result, the transdermal 
delivery systems have emerged as a promising alternative to oral or inhaled 
routes, offering improved bioavailability and targeted effects. The medical use 
of CBD throughout Europe, UK, USA or Australia is extensive and usually 
represented by pharmaceutical preparations recommended after conventional 
treatment routs fail. The non-medical use is limited by each country's own 
legislation, a wider range of products being available, but the irregular 
regulatory landscape coupled with the growing market of cannabinoid-infused 
products, emphasizes the need for standardized formulations and further clinical 
research. The present work critically examines the transdermal administration of 
cannabidiol, explores the skin's potential as a route and the strategies 
involved in using it for systemic targeting. We highlighted key challenges and 
provided insights into CBD`s variable bioavailability based on different 
administration routes and methods, thus compiling a literature-based absorption, 
distribution, metabolism, and excretion (ADME) study. We also explore the role 
of the endocannabinoid system, its function in various medical conditions, and 
the therapeutic effects associated with CBD, particularly in light of the 
varying legislation across countries. While the breadth of potential benefits is 
compelling, it is essential to emphasize the ongoing nature of CBD research as 
individual responses to it can vary significantly.

Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejps.2025.107036
PMID: 39929375 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest Authors 
declare no competing interests.