[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: nanoparticle drug delivery tumor targeting cancer | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: nanoparticle drug delivery tumor targeting cancer]

74. Int J Mol Sci. 2021 Nov 17;22(22):12405. doi: 10.3390/ijms222212405.

Nanoparticle-Mediated Delivery Systems in Photodynamic Therapy of Colorectal 
Cancer.

Winifred Nompumelelo Simelane N(1), Abrahamse H(1).

Author information:
(1)Laser Research Centre, Faculty of Health Sciences, University of 
Johannesburg, P.O. Box 17011, Doornfontein 2028, South Africa.

Colorectal cancer (CRC) involving a malignant tumour remains one of the greatest 
contributing causes of fatal mortality and has become the third globally ranked 
malignancy in terms of cancer-associated deaths. Conventional CRC treatment 
approaches such as surgery, radiation, and chemotherapy are the most utilized 
approaches to treat this disease. However, they are limited by low selectivity 
and systemic toxicity, so they cannot completely eradicate this disease. 
Photodynamic therapy (PDT) is an emerging therapeutic modality that exerts 
selective cytotoxicity to cancerous cells through the activation of 
photosensitizers (PSs) under light irradiation to produce cytotoxic reactive 
oxygen species (ROS), which then cause cancer cell death. Cumulative research 
findings have highlighted the significant role of traditional PDT in CRC 
treatment; however, the therapeutic efficacy of the classical PDT strategy is 
restricted due to skin photosensitivity, poor cancerous tissue specificity, and 
limited penetration of light. The application of nanoparticles in PDT can 
mitigate some of these shortcomings and enhance the targeting ability of PS in 
order to effectively use PDT against CRC as well as to reduce systemic side 
effects. Although 2D culture models are widely used in cancer research, they 
have some limitations. Therefore, 3D models in CRC PDT, particularly 
multicellular tumour spheroids (MCTS), have attracted researchers. This review 
summarizes several photosensitizers that are currently used in CRC PDT and gives 
an overview of recent advances in nanoparticle application for enhanced CRC PDT. 
In addition, the progress of 3D-model applications in CRC PDT is discussed.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms222212405
PMCID: PMC8622021
PMID: 34830287 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.