[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: nanoparticle drug delivery tumor targeting cancer | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: nanoparticle drug delivery tumor targeting cancer]

7. Crit Rev Ther Drug Carrier Syst. 2017;34(4):317-353. doi: 
10.1615/CritRevTherDrugCarrierSyst.2017017845.

Recent Advances in Nanoparticle-Based Targeted Drug-Delivery Systems Against 
Cancer and Role of Tumor Microenvironment.

Ashfaq UA(1), Riaz M(2), Yasmeen E(2), Yousaf MZ(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Bioinformatics & Biotechnology, Government College University, 
38000 Faisalabad, Pakistan.
(2)Government College University, 38000 Faisalabad, Pakistan; National Centre 
for Bioinformatics, Faculty of Biological Sciences, Quaid-i-Azam University, 
Islamabad 45320, Pakistan.
(3)Centre for Applied Science and Technology, Islamabad, Pakistan.

Cancer is one of the major causes of death worldwide. The silent activation of 
cellular factors responsible for deviation from normal regulatory pathways leads 
to the development of cancer. Nano-biotechnology is a novel drug-delivery system 
with high potential of efficacy and accuracy to target lethal cancers. Various 
biocompatible nanoparticle (NP)-based drug-delivery systems such as liposomes, 
dendrimers, micelles, silica, quantum dots, and magnetic, gold, and carbon 
nanotubes have already been reported for successful targeted cancer treatment. 
NPs are functionalized with different biological molecules, peptides, antibody, 
and protein ligands for targeted drug delivery. These systems include a 
hydrophilic central core, a target-oriented biocompatible outer layer, and a 
middle hydrophobic core where the drug destined to reach target site resides. 
Most of the NPs have the ability to maintain their structural shape and are 
constructed according to the cancer microenvironment. The self-assembling and 
colloidal properties of NPs have caused them to become the best vehicles for 
targeted drug delivery. The tumor microenvironment (TME) plays a major role in 
cancer progression, detection, and treatment. Due to its continuous complex 
behavior, the TME can hinder delivery systems, thus halting cancer treatment. 
Nonetheless, a successful biophysiological interaction between the NPs and the 
TME results in targeted release of drugs. Currently, a number of drugs and 
NP-based delivery systems against cancer are in clinical and preclinical trials 
and a few have been approved by Food and Drug Administration (FDA); for example: 
taxol, doxil, cerubidine, and adrucil. This review summarizes topical advances 
about the drugs being used for cancer treatment, their targeted delivery systems 
based on NPs, and the role of TME in this connection.

DOI: 10.1615/CritRevTherDrugCarrierSyst.2017017845
PMID: 29199588 [Indexed for MEDLINE]