[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: Heaviside–Lorentz units | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Heaviside–Lorentz units — Overview

the susceptibilities are constants. Note that The quantities , and are dimensionless, and they have the same numeric value. By contrast, the electric susceptibility is dimensionless in all the systems, but has for the same material: The same statements apply for the corresponding magnetic quantities. Advantages and disadvantages of Heaviside–Lorentz units Advantages The formulas above are clearly simpler in units compared to either or Gaussian units. As Heaviside proposed, removing the  from the Gauss law and putting it in the Force law considerably reduces the number of places the  appears compared to Gaussian CGS units. Removing the explicit  from the Gauss law makes it clear that the inverse-square force law arises by the  field spreading out over the surface of a sphere. This allows a straightforward extension to other dimensions. For example the case of long, parallel wires extending straight in the  direction can be considered a two-dimensional system. Another example is in string theory, where more than three spatial dimensions often need to be considered. The equations are free of the constants  and  that are present in the SI system. (In addition  and  are overdetermined, because .)

The below points are true in both Heaviside–Lorentz and Gaussian systems, but not SI. The electric and magnetic fields  and  have the same dimensions in the Heaviside–Lorentz system, meaning it is easy to recall where factors of  go in the Maxwell equation. Every time derivative comes with a , which makes it dimensionally the same as a space derivative. In contrast, in SI units  is . Giving the  and  fields the same dimension makes the assembly into the electromagnetic tensor more transparent. There are no factors of  that need to be inserted when assembling the tensor out of the three-dimensional fields. Similarly,  and  have the same dimensions and are the four components of the 4-potential. The fields , , , and  also have the same dimensions as  and . For vacuum, any expression involving  can simply be recast as the same expression with . In SI units,  and  have the same units, as do  and , but they have different units from each other and from  and . Disadvantages 

 Despite Heaviside's urgings, it proved difficult to persuade people to switch from the established units. He believed that if the units were changed, "[o]ld style instruments would very soon be in a minority, and then disappear ...". Persuading people to switch was already difficult in 1893, and in the meanwhile there have been more than a century's worth of additional textbooks printed and voltmeters built. Heaviside–Lorentz units, like the Gaussian CGS units by which they generally differ by a factor of about 3.5, are frequently of rather inconvenient sizes. The ampere (coulomb/second) is reasonable unit for measuring currents commonly encountered, but the ESU/s, as demonstrated above, is far too small. The Gaussian CGS unit of electric potential is named a statvolt. It is about , a value which is larger than most commonly encountered potentials. The henry, the SI unit for inductance is already on the large side compared to most inductors; the Gaussian unit is 12 orders of magnitude larger. A few of the Gaussian CGS units have names; none of the Heaviside–Lorentz units do. Textbooks in theoretical physics use Heaviside–Lorentz units nearly exclusively, frequently in their natural form (see below),  system's conceptual simplicity and compactness significantly clarify the discussions, and it is possible if necessary to convert the resulting answers to appropriate units after the fact by inserting appropriate factors of  and . Some textbooks on classical electricity and magnetism have been written using Gaussian CGS units, but recently some of them have been rewritten to use SI units. Outside of these contexts, including for example magazine articles on electric circuits, Heaviside–Lorentz and Gaussian CGS units are rarely encountered. Translating expressions and formulas between systems

To convert any expression or formula between the SI, Heaviside–Lorentz or Gaussian systems, the corresponding quantities shown in the table below can be directly equated and hence substituted. This will reproduce any of the specific formulas given in the list above. As an example, starting with the equation

and the equations from the table

Moving the factor across in the latter identities and substituting, the result is

which then simplifies to

Notes

References 

Special relativity
Electromagnetism
Hendrik Lorentz