[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: Structure factor | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Structure factor — Overview

structure except that it is a compound of two distinct interpenetrating fcc lattices, rather than all the same element. Denoting the two elements in the compound by and , the resulting structure factor is Cesium chloride Cesium chloride is a simple cubic crystal lattice with a basis of Cs at (0,0,0) and Cl at (1/2, 1/2, 1/2) (or the other way around, it makes no difference). Equation () becomes

We then arrive at the following result for the structure factor for scattering from a plane :

and for scattered intensity,

Hexagonal close-packed (HCP) 
In an HCP crystal such as graphite, the two coordinates include the origin  and the next plane up the c axis located at c/2, and hence , which gives us

From this it is convenient to define dummy variable , and from there consider the modulus squared so hence

This leads us to the following conditions for the structure factor:

Perfect crystals in one and two dimensions

The reciprocal lattice is easily constructed in one dimension: for particles on a line with a period , the reciprocal lattice is an infinite array of points with spacing . In two dimensions, there are only five Bravais lattices. The corresponding reciprocal lattices have the same symmetry as the direct lattice. 2-D lattices are excellent for demonstrating simple diffraction geometry on a flat screen, as below. Equations (1)–(7) for structure factor  apply with a scattering vector of limited dimensionality and a crystallographic structure factor can be defined in 2-D as . However, recall that real 2-D crystals such as graphene exist in 3-D. The reciprocal lattice of a 2-D hexagonal sheet that exists in 3-D space in the  plane  is a hexagonal array of lines parallel to the  or  axis that extend to  and intersect any plane of constant  in a hexagonal array of points. The Figure shows the construction of one vector of a 2-D reciprocal lattice and its relation to a scattering experiment. A parallel beam, with wave vector  is incident on a square lattice of parameter . The scattered wave is detected at a certain angle, which defines the wave vector of the outgoing beam,  (under the assumption of elastic scattering, ). One can equally define the scattering vector  and construct the harmonic pattern . In the depicted example, the spacing of this pattern coincides to the distance between particle rows: , so that contributions to the scattering from all particles are in phase (constructive interference). Thus, the total signal in direction  is strong, and  belongs to the reciprocal lattice. It is easily shown that this configuration fulfills Bragg's law. Imperfect crystals
Technically a perfect crystal must be infinite, so a finite size is an imperfection. Real crystals always exhibit imperfections of their order besides their finite size, and these imperfections can have profound effects on the properties of the material. André Guinier proposed a widely employed distinction between imperfections that preserve the long-range order of the crystal that he called disorder of the first kind and those that destroy it called disorder of the second kind. An example of the first is thermal vibration; an example of the second is some density of dislocations. The generally applicable structure factor  can be used to include the effect of any imperfection. In crystallography, these effects are treated as separate from the structure factor , so separate factors for size or thermal effects are introduced into the expressions for scattered intensity, leaving the perfect crystal structure factor unchanged. Therefore, a detailed description of these factors in crystallographic structure modeling and structure determination by diffraction is not appropriate in this article. Finite-size effects
For  a finite crystal means that the sums in equations 1-7 are now over a finite . The effect is most easily demonstrated with a 1-D lattice of points. The sum of the phase factors is a geometric series and the structure factor becomes:

 

This function is shown in the Figure for different values of . When the scattering from every particle is in phase, which is when the scattering is at a reciprocal lattice point , the sum of the amplitudes must be  and so the maxima in intensity are  . Taking the above expression for  and estimating the limit  using, for instance, L'Hôpital's rule) shows that   as seen in the Figure. At the midpoint  (by direct evaluation) and the peak width decreases like . In the large  limit, the peaks become infinitely sharp Dirac delta functions, the reciprocal lattice of the perfect 1-D lattice. In crystallography when  is used,  is large, and the formal size effect on diffraction is taken as , which is the same as the expression for  above near to the reciprocal lattice points, . Using convolution, we can describe the finite real crystal structure as [lattice]  [basis] rectangular function, where the rectangular function has a value 1 inside the crystal and 0 outside it. Then [crystal structure] = [lattice] [basis] [rectangular function]; that is, scattering  [reciprocal lattice]  [structure factor]  [ sinc function].