[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Propulsion Mechanics | Topic: Gloster E.1/44 | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Gloster E.1/44 — Overview

17 minutes. Proposals The successful testing of the E.28/39 had directly led to the design of the twin-engined Gloster Meteor jet fighter from 1940. During 1942, engine manufacturer Rover, who had already been contracted to produce the Power Jets W.2 jet engine, had experienced production problems and the Air Ministry decided to issue Specification E.5/42 for an aircraft which would only be powered by one engine. Gloster produced a design which developed into a low-wing monoplane equipped with a highly tapered wing and a T-tail arrangement, along with a tailwheel undercarriage. It was to be powered by a Halford H.1 or Rolls-Royce Nene engine fed by intakes in the wing roots. During late 1943, construction activity on a pair of prototype GA.1s, commenced. The difficulties of manufacture were resolved by Rolls-Royce Limited exchanging jet engine production (as such, the W2 engine would become known as the Welland) for Meteor tank engine production with Rover, Rolls-Royce overcoming the production problems. Demand for a single-engined design dissipated and the fledgling GA.1 was no longer required. Gloster continued to work on the design privately, intending to adopt a Halford H.1 engine to power the type instead of the W2/Welland. During 1944, the Air Ministry issued Specification E.1/44 for an experimental jet-powered aircraft that would be powered the new Rolls-Royce Nene engine. Gloster's design team decided to approach the specified requirements of this new specification by developing a new design,  GA.2. It was not based on the earlier E.5/42, being a significantly larger aeroplane. During 1944, after reviewing submissions, the Air Ministry issued a contract to Gloster for a prototype; this order was joined during late 1945 by additional orders for the completion of a further three aircraft. Design

The Gloster E.1/44 was a stressed-skin mid-winged monoplane design, featuring a relatively broad fuselage and a wide-track undercarriage. The design bore little resemblance to the twin-jet Meteor and only superficial similarities to the earlier pioneering E.28/39, being a larger and significantly heavier aircraft. Unlike the E.28/39, which had a central air intake in the nose into a straight-through duct to reach its turbojet engine, the E.1/44's Nene received air via a pair of semi-circular air intakes ahead of the wing roots. The tailplane was mounted midway up the rear fuselage, set beneath the single fin and rudder. Unlike the earlier E.5/42, a widely spaced tricycle landing gear arrangement was adopted for the E.1/44. The unusually wide fuselage of the E.1/44 was made in sections, the front of which being attached to the central section via four longerons. The centre fuselage, composed of reinforced Z-section frames and heavy double-channel section frames, accommodated the Nene and attachment points for the centre-section of the wing. Set into the sides of the central section were the air intakes, which featured boundary-layer bleeds and were readily detachable. The rear fuselage section used semi-monocoque construction, reinforced by several Z-section frames and top-hat stringers; the detachable tail section featured a similar structure. Apart from the upper portion of the fin, which was composed of wood for its insulating properties, the tail unit was an all-metal, stressed-skin unit. Rivets were used to attach the sections. The centre-section of the wing, which accommodated the flaps, inboard air brakes and main undercarriage, was a single-spar stressed-skin structure, with an auxiliary rear spar. Both spars use a plate web design; the main spar's booms were composed from high-tensile steel, the rear spar of light-alloy booms. The outer portions of the wing, which had similar construction, were fixed at the spars and at the leading edge. An unusual feature of the aircraft was the skin of the wings, which was composed of relatively difficult-to-work stainless-steel. The flying controls of the E.1/44 were relatively conventional, employing an array of push-rods and spring-torque shafts (the latter being primarily used for actuation of the spring tabs) to feed control inputs to the flight control surfaces. Power for the undercarriage and the flaps was provided by a Dowty hydraulic pump, driven via a gear box from the Nene engine. For emergencies, there was a hand-pump for the flight surfaces and a compressed-air system for the undercarriage. Electrical power was provided by a 1,500-watt HX2 generator, also driven via the gear box, which charged a pair of series-connected 12-volt accumulators. Equipment included a two-way radio set, IFF, oxygen tanks, windscreen de-icing system, fire detectors and fire extinguishers and a drogue parachute in the tail. Construction and testing

Progress on the new fighter was slow, Gloster having chosen to concentrate on the twin-engined Meteor and the first prototype was not completed until July 1947. The project received a considerable setback when the prototype was destroyed in a road accident while being transported to RAF Boscombe Down for flight testing.