[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: natural product antibiotic drug discovery | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: natural product antibiotic drug discovery]

86. Nucleic Acids Res. 2023 Jan 6;51(D1):D654-D659. doi: 10.1093/nar/gkac1008.

SuperNatural 3.0-a database of natural products and natural product-based 
derivatives.

Gallo K(1), Kemmler E(1), Goede A(1), Becker F(1), Dunkel M(1), Preissner R(1), 
Banerjee P(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Physiology and Science-IT, Charite - Universitätsmedizin Berlin, 
corporate member of Freie Universitat Berlin, Humboldt-Universitat zu Berlin, 
and Berlin Institute of Health, Philippstrasse 12, 10115 Berlin, Germany.

Natural products (NPs) are single chemical compounds, substances or mixtures 
produced by a living organism - found in nature. Evolutionarily, NPs have been 
used as healing agents since thousands of years and still today continue to be 
the most important source of new potential therapeutic preparations. Natural 
products have played a key role in modern drug discovery for several diseases. 
Furthermore, following consumers' increasing demand for natural food 
ingredients, many efforts have been made to discover natural low-calorie 
sweeteners in recent years. SuperNatural 3.0 is a freely available database of 
natural products and derivatives. The updated version contains 449 058 natural 
compounds along with their structural and physicochemical information. 
Additionally, information on pathways, mechanism of action, toxicity, vendor 
information if available, drug-like chemical space prediction for several 
diseases as antiviral, antibacterial, antimalarial, anticancer, and target 
specific cells like the central nervous system (CNS) are also provided for the 
natural compounds. The updated version of the database also provides a valuable 
pool of natural compounds in which potential highly sweet compounds are expected 
to be found. The possible taste profile of the natural compounds was predicted 
using our published VirtualTaste models. The SuperNatural 3.0 database is freely 
available via http://bioinf-applied.charite.de/supernatural_3, without any login 
or registration.

© The Author(s) 2022. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Nucleic 
Acids Research.

DOI: 10.1093/nar/gkac1008
PMCID: PMC9825600
PMID: 36399452 [Indexed for MEDLINE]