[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: ethnobotany traditional medicine biological activi | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: ethnobotany traditional medicine biological activity]

19. J Ethnopharmacol. 2021 Jun 28;274:114050. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2021.114050.
Epub  2021 Mar 20.

The ethnobotany, phytochemistry and biological properties of genus Ferulago - A 
review.

Badalamenti N(1), Ilardi V(2), Rosselli S(3), Bruno M(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological, Chemical and Pharmaceutical Sciences and 
Technologies (STEBICEF), University of Palermo, Palermo, Italy.
(2)Department of Earth and Marine Sciences (DISTeM), University of Palermo, 
Palermo, Italy.
(3)Department of Agricultural and Forest Sciences (SAAF), University of Palermo, 
Palermo, Italy; Centro Interdipartimentale di Ricerca "Riutilizzo Bio-based 
degli scarti da matrici agroalimentari" (RIVIVE), University of Palermo, Italy.
(4)Department of Biological, Chemical and Pharmaceutical Sciences and 
Technologies (STEBICEF), University of Palermo, Palermo, Italy; Centro 
Interdipartimentale di Ricerca "Riutilizzo Bio-based degli scarti da matrici 
agroalimentari" (RIVIVE), University of Palermo, Italy. Electronic address: 
maurizio.bruno@unipa.it.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: The genus Ferulago, belonging to the Apiaceae 
family, is found mainly in the Mediterranean area, Southwest and Middle Asia, 
the Caucasus and North Africa. Since ancient times, species of this genus have 
been largely employed in traditional medicine for their biological properties 
such as antimicrobial, anti-inflammatory, antispasmodic, insecticidal, and 
anti-malaria, cholinesterase inhibition effects, etc. AIMS: The scope of this 
paper is to present a comprehensive respect review of this interesting genus 
including traditional uses, chemical composition of volatile and non-volatile 
metabolites, and in vitro and in vivo biological properties either utilizing the 
crude extracts or essential oils, or the single isolated compounds. Furthermore, 
critical considerations of the published data have been highlighted by comparing 
them with the results obtained from species of other genus belonging to the 
Apiaceae family.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The available information on these genera was collected 
from scientific databases and cover from 1967 up to 2020. The following 
electronic databases were used: PubMed, SciFinder, Science Direct, Scopus, Web 
of Science and Google Scholar. The search terms used for this review included 
Ferulago, all the botanical names of the species, both accepted names or 
synonyms, essential oils, volatile components, traditional uses, activity, 
pharmacology, and toxicity. No limitations were set for languages. A total of 
230 articles were included in the present review.
RESULTS: Researches performed on either crude extracts, solvent fractions or 
isolated pure compounds from species of genus Ferulago showed several biological 
properties such as antibacterial, antifungal, antioxidant, antidiabetic, 
enzymatic, cytotoxic, anticancer, hepatoprotective, nephroprotective, 
antileishmanial, antimalarial, anticoagulant, anti-inflammatory, insecticidal, 
etc. Activities. Phytochemical investigations of Ferulago species have revealed 
that coumarins are the main constituents of the genera. A large number of 
flavonoids, terpenoids and other metabolites were also identified. Furthermore, 
a complete review on the essential oil composition of all the taxa studied so 
far has been also included.
CONCLUSION: In the present study, we have provided scientific information and 
research developments on traditional uses, phytochemical profiles, biological 
activities and industrial practices on the Ferulago genus. The commercial use 
and the applications in agri-food sector of some of these species have been also 
considered. In fact, the various extracts and essential oils have been used as 
antioxidants and/or as antimicrobial agents, for the stabilization of sunflower 
and soybean oil, for food packagings, as antioxidants of mayonnaise and yogurt 
during their storage and, also, as economically valid source for obtaining 
single compounds, more expensive at a synthetic level.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2021.114050
PMID: 33753144 [Indexed for MEDLINE]