[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: cannabis cannabidiol therapeutic epilepsy pain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: cannabis cannabidiol therapeutic epilepsy pain]

32. Neuropharmacology. 2022 Apr 1;207:108948. doi:
10.1016/j.neuropharm.2022.108948.  Epub 2022 Jan 13.

Cannabidiol and substance use disorder: Dream or reality.

Karimi-Haghighi S(1), Razavi Y(2), Iezzi D(3), Scheyer AF(3), Manzoni O(3), 
Haghparast A(4).

Author information:
(1)Clinical Neurology Research Center, Shiraz University of Medical Sciences, 
Shiraz, Iran; Neuroscience Research Center, School of Medicine, Shahid Beheshti 
University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(2)Neuroscience Research Center, School of Medicine, Shahid Beheshti University 
of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(3)INMED, INSERM U1249, Marseille, France; Aix-Marseille University, Marseille, 
France.
(4)Neuroscience Research Center, School of Medicine, Shahid Beheshti University 
of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran. Electronic address: Haghparast@yahoo.com.

BACKGROUND: Cannabidiol (CBD) is one of the major constituents of Cannabis 
sativa L. that lacks psychotomimetic and rewarding properties and inhibits the 
rewarding and reinforcing effects of addictive drugs such as cocaine, 
methamphetamine (METH), and morphine. Additionally, CBD's safety profile and 
therapeutic potential are currently evaluated in several medical conditions, 
including pain, depression, movement disorders, epilepsy, multiple sclerosis, 
Alzheimer's disease, ischemia, and substance use disorder. There is no effective 
treatment for substance use disorders such as addiction, and this review aims to 
describe preclinical and clinical investigations into the effects of CBD in 
various models of opioid, psychostimulant, cannabis, alcohol, and nicotine 
abuse. Furthermore, the possible mechanisms underlying the therapeutic potential 
of CBD on drug abuse disorders are reviewed.
METHODS: The current review considers and summarizes the preclinical and 
clinical investigations into CBD's effects in various models of drug abuse 
include opioids, psychostimulants, cannabis, alcohol, and nicotine.
RESULTS: Several preclinical and clinical studies have proposed that CBD may be 
a reliable agent to inhibit the reinforcing and rewarding impact of drugs.
CONCLUSIONS: While the currently available evidence converges to suggest that 
CBD could effectively reduce the rewarding and reinforcing effects of addictive 
drugs, more preclinical and clinical studies are needed before CBD can be added 
to the therapeutic arsenal for treating addiction.

Copyright © 2022 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuropharm.2022.108948
PMCID: PMC9157244
PMID: 35032495 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest The authors declare that 
they have no conflict of interest.