[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: magnetic resonance spectroscopy metabolite brain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: magnetic resonance spectroscopy metabolite brain]

83. Pediatr Neurol. 2014 Jul;51(1):53-9. doi:
10.1016/j.pediatrneurol.2014.03.011.  Epub 2014 Mar 22.

Magnetic resonance spectroscopy at term-equivalent age in extremely preterm 
infants: association with cognitive and language development.

Bapat R(1), Narayana PA(2), Zhou Y(2), Parikh NA(3).

Author information:
(1)Division of Neonatology, Department of Pediatrics, Nationwide Children's 
Hospital and The Department of Pediatrics, The Ohio State University College of 
Medicine, Columbus, Ohio. Electronic address: 
Nehal.Parikh@nationwidechildrens.org.
(2)Department of Diagnostic and Interventional Imaging, University of Texas 
Health Science Center, Houston, Texas.
(3)Division of Neonatology, Department of Pediatrics, Nationwide Children's 
Hospital and The Department of Pediatrics, The Ohio State University College of 
Medicine, Columbus, Ohio; Center for Perinatal Research, The Research Institute 
at Nationwide Children's Hospital and The Department of Pediatrics, The Ohio 
State University College of Medicine, Columbus, Ohio.

BACKGROUND: Proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy can be used to assess brain 
integrity and maturation with age.
OBJECTIVE: To compare regional cerebral magnetic resonance spectroscopy 
metabolite ratios in extremely low birth weight and healthy term control infants 
measured at term-equivalent age and to evaluate association between magnetic 
resonance spectroscopy metabolites and cognitive and language development at 
18-22 months' corrected age.
METHODS: Single-voxel point-resolved spectroscopy sequence was performed in a 
prospective cohort of 43 infants. Magnetic resonance spectroscopy metabolite 
ratios of N-acetylaspartate to choline-containing compounds and 
N-acetylaspartate to myo-inositiol in the hippocampus, cortex, and 
subventricular zone were associated with Bayley mental, cognitive, and language 
scores at 18-22 months' corrected age.
RESULTS: The mean (±S.D.) gestation of the 31 extremely low birth weight 
population was 25 (±1.1) weeks and mean (±S.D.) birth weight was 749 (±133.9) g. 
Compared with healthy term control infants, extremely low birth weight infants 
exhibited consistently lower N-acetylaspartate-to-choline-containing compounds 
ratios in our three regions of interest, with differences reaching statistical 
significance for the subventricular zone and cortex regions. In multiple linear 
regression analyses, N-acetylaspartate-to-choline-containing compounds ratio in 
the subventricular zone, N-acetylaspartate-to-choline-containing compounds ratio 
in the cortex, and N-acetylaspartate-to-myo-inositiol ratio in the 
subventricular zone were significantly associated with Bayley mental scores at 
18-22 months' corrected age.
CONCLUSIONS: Magnetic resonance spectroscopy metabolite abnormalities at 
term-equivalent age appear to be significantly associated with cognitive and 
language development in extremely low birth weight infants.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pediatrneurol.2014.03.011
PMCID: PMC5942892
PMID: 24938140 [Indexed for MEDLINE]