[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: low-level laser therapy wound healing pain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: low-level laser therapy wound healing pain]

58. J Indian Prosthodont Soc. 2024 Oct 1;24(4):336-340. doi: 
10.4103/jips.jips_162_24. Epub 2024 Oct 15.

Evaluation of effect of low-level laser therapy on alleviation of pain in 
patients with implant-supported mandibular overdenture: A pilot study.

Makker R(1), Srivastava R(1), Khandelwal S(1), Reddy P(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Prosthodontics, Crown and Bridge, Index Institute of Dental 
Sciences, Malwanchal University, Indore, Madhya Pradesh, India.
(2)Department of Oral Medicine and Radiology, Government College of Dentistry, 
Indore, Madhya Pradesh, India.

AIM: Rehabilitation of edentulous jaws with implant-supported overdenture has 
achieved a comprehensive acclamation across the globe due to compromised 
retention and stability in conventional complete dentures. In dentistry, 
low-level laser therapy (LLLT) has become a viable treatment option for lowering 
inflammation, easing pain, and speeding up wound healing. This study aimed to 
evaluate the effect of LLLT on alleviation of pain in patients with two 
implant-supported mandibular overdentures.
STUDY SETTING AND DESIGN: This study was carried out in the Department of 
Prosthodontics at Index Institute of Dental Sciences, Indore, Madhya Pradesh. 
Completely edentulous patients willing for implant-supported mandibular 
overdenture and who gave consent, were enrolled.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A total of ten implants were placed in five patients with 
completely edentulous mandibular arch willing for implant-supported mandibular 
overdenture. Individuals from the outpatient division of Department of 
Prosthodontics, Crown & Bridge, Index Institute of Dental Sciences, Indore were 
chosen as patients. Bilateral implants were inserted into the mandible at 
locations B and D. On the experimental side, low-level laser therapy (wavelength 
810 nm) was administered immediately following implant insertion and on the 
third day. Over the course of 72 hours, pain after surgery was assessed using 
visual analogue scale (VAS) values, beginning at baseline.
STATISTICAL ANALYSIS USED: The Mann-Whitney U test was used for statistical 
analysis of the intergroup pain alleviation scores.
RESULTS: The results showed that on intergroup comparison, the experimental side 
exhibited significantly reduced VAS pain scores relative to the control side 
(P<0.05).
CONCLUSION: LLLT can be used as a promising adjuvant therapy to lower the degree 
and duration of pain after undergoing dental implant surgery.

Copyright © 2024 Copyright: © 2024 The Journal of Indian Prosthodontic Society.

DOI: 10.4103/jips.jips_162_24
PMCID: PMC11614126
PMID: 40227938 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: There are no conflicts of interest.