[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: laser tissue interaction ablation photothermal | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: laser tissue interaction ablation photothermal]

18. Lasers Surg Med. 2013 Jan;45(1):48-56. doi: 10.1002/lsm.22114. Epub 2013 Jan
15.

Tm:fiber laser ablation with real-time temperature monitoring for minimizing 
collateral thermal damage: ex vivo dosimetry for ovine brain.

Tunc B(1), Gulsoy M.

Author information:
(1)Biophotonics Laboratory, Institute of Biomedical Engineering, Bogazici 
University, Kandilli Kampus, Cengelkoy, 34684 Istanbul, Turkey.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: The thermal damage of the surrounding tissue can be an 
unwanted result of continuous-wave laser irradiations. In order to propose an 
effective alternative to conventional surgical techniques, photothermal damage 
must be taken under control by a detailed dose study. Real-time temperature 
monitoring can be also an effective way to get rid of these negative effects. 
The aim of the present study is to investigate the potential of a new 
laser-thermoprobe, which consists of a continuous-wave 1,940-nm Tm:fiber laser 
and a thermocouple measurement system for brain surgery in an ex vivo study.
STUDY DESIGN/MATERIALS AND METHODS: A laser-thermoprobe was designed for using 
the near-by tissue temperature as a real-time reference for the applicator. 
Fresh lamb brain tissues were used for experiments. 320 laser shots were 
performed on both cortical and subcortical tissue.
RESULTS: The relationship between laser parameters, temperature changes, and 
ablation (removal of tissue) efficiency was determined. The correlation between 
rate of temperature change and ablation efficiency was calculated.
CONCLUSION: Laser-thermoprobe leads us to understand the basic laser-tissue 
interaction mechanism in a very cheap and easy way, without making a change in 
the experimental design. It was also shown that the ablation and coagulation 
(thermally irreversible damage) diameters could be predicted, and carbonization 
can be avoided by temperature monitoring.

Copyright © 2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/lsm.22114
PMID: 23322343 [Indexed for MEDLINE]