[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: Cryogenic treatment | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Cryogenic treatment — Overview

to prevent initial mechanical failure from the surface The torsional deformation creates the gradient phase transformation along the radial direction protecting large hydrostatic tension The high deformation triggers dislocation plasticity in martensitic phase to enhance overall ductility and tensile strength Copper Zhang et al. exploited the cryorolling to the dynamic plastic deformed copper at liquid nitrogen temperature (LNT-DPD) to greatly enhance tensile strength with high ductility. The key of this combined approach (Cryogenic hardening and Cryogenic rolling) is to engineer the nano-sized twin boundary embedded in the copper. Processing with the plastic deformation of grained bulk metal decreases the size of the grain boundary and enhances the grain boundary strengthening. However, as the grain gets smaller, the interaction between grain and the dislocation inside impedes further process of grains. Among the grain boundaries, it is known that the twin boundaries, a special type of low-energy grain boundary has lower interaction energy with dislocation leading to much smaller saturation size of the grain. The cryogenic dynamic plastic deformation creates higher fraction of the twin boundaries compared to the severe plastic deformation. Following cryorolling further reduces the grain boundary energy with relieving the twin boundary leading to higher Hall-Petch strengthening effect. In addition, this increases the ability of grain boundary to accommodate more dislocation leading to the improvement in ductility from cryorolling. Titanium
Cryogenic hardening of Titanium is hard to manipulate compare to other face centered cubic (fcc) metals because these hexagonal close packed (hcp) metals has less symmetry and slip systems to exploit. Recently Zhao et al. introduced the efficient method to manipulate nanotwinned titanium which has higher strength, ductility and thermal stability. By cryoforging repetitively along the three principal axes in liquid nitrogen and following annealing process, pure Titanium can possess hierarchical twin boundary network structure which suppresses the motion of dislocation and significantly enhances its mechanical property. The microstructure analysis found that the repeated twinning and de-twinning keep increasing the fraction of nanosized twin boundaries and refining the grains to render much higher Hall-Petch strengthening effect even after the saturation of microscale twin boundary at high flow stress. Especially, the strength and ductility of nanotwinned titanium at 77 K, reaches about 2 GPa, and ~100% which far outweighs those of conventional cryogenic steels even without any inclusion of alloying. References

External links 
Cryogenics Society of America
CSA Cryogenic Treatment Database of Research Articles
300 Below - Founder of Commercial Cryogenic Industry (Since 1966)
Understanding how Deep Cryogenics works, and what applications are most effective

Cryogenics
Metal forming
Metal heat treatments