[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: optical coherence tomography retinal diagnosis | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: optical coherence tomography retinal diagnosis]

80. Acta Ophthalmol. 2018 Mar;96(2):e180-e188. doi: 10.1111/aos.13577. Epub 2017
Nov  2.

Ganglion cell-inner plexiform layer and retinal nerve fibre layer changes within 
the macula in retinitis pigmentosa: a spectral domain optical coherence 
tomography study.

Yoon CK(1)(2), Yu HG(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Inje University Busan Paik Hospital, Busan, 
Korea.
(2)Department of Ophthalmology, Seoul National University College of Medicine, 
Seoul, Korea.
(3)Department of Ophthalmology, Seoul National University Hospital, Seoul, 
Korea.

PURPOSE: To investigate how macular ganglion cell-inner plexiform layer (GCIPL) 
and retinal nerve fibre layer (RNFL) thicknesses within the macula change with 
retinitis pigmentosa (RP) severity.
METHODS: Spectral domain optical coherence tomography (SD-OCT) was used to 
examine 177 patients with RP and 177 normal controls. An optical coherence 
tomography (OCT) line scan was used to grade RP severity. Retinitis pigmentosa 
(RP) was categorized as more advanced if there was no identifiable inner segment 
ellipsoid (ISe) band (NISE) and as less advanced if an ISe band could be 
identified and peripheral loss of ISe was apparent (IISE). Ganglion cell-inner 
plexiform layer (GCIPL) and RNFL thicknesses were manually measured on OCT 
images and analysed. Pearson's correlation analyses were used to examine 
correlations between GCIPL thickness, RNFL thickness, visual acuity (VA) and 
visual field extent in patients and controls.
RESULTS: Ganglion cell-inner plexiform layer (GCIPL) was significantly thicker 
in IISE than in control eyes (p < 0.001), but significantly thinner in NISE than 
in IISE eyes (p < 0.001) in both horizontal and vertical OCT scans. Retinal 
nerve fibre layer (RNFL) was significantly thicker in eyes with IISE and NISE 
than in control eyes in both horizontal and vertical meridians (all p < 0.001). 
Ganglion cell-inner plexiform layer (GCIPL) thickness showed a weak positive 
correlation with vision, and RNFL thickness showed a weak negative correlation 
with vision and visual field extent.
CONCLUSION: Based on these results, the inner retina, including the GCIPL and 
RNFL, maintains its gross integrity longer than the photoreceptor layer in RP. 
Additionally, thickening of the inner retina may have some functional 
implications in patients with RP.

© 2017 Acta Ophthalmologica Scandinavica Foundation. Published by John Wiley & 
Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/aos.13577
PMID: 29098796 [Indexed for MEDLINE]