[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: Culpeper's Complete Herbal — Nicholas Culpeper | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Culpeper's Complete Herbal — Nicholas Culpeper — Overview

boy stood perfectly still and listened. He heard it again. He knew right away that it was the voice of Whitefoot. “Hello!” exclaimed Farmer Brown's boy. “That sounds as if Whitefoot is in trouble of some kind. I wonder where the little rascal is. I wonder what can have happened to him. I must look into this.” Again Farmer Brown's boy heard that faint little squeak. It was so faint that he
couldn't tell where it came from. Hurriedly and anxiously he looked all
over the little sugar-house, stopping every few seconds to listen
for that pitiful little squeak. It seemed to come from nowhere in
particular. Also it was growing fainter. At last Farmer Brown's boy happened to stand still close to that tin
pail half filled with sap. He heard the faint little squeak again and
with it a little splash. It was the sound of the little splash that led
him to look down. In a flash he understood what had happened. He
saw poor little Whitefoot struggling feebly, and even as he looked
Whitefoot's head went under. He was very nearly drowned. Stooping quickly, Farmer Brown's boy grabbed Whitefoot's long tail and
pulled him out. Whitefoot was so nearly drowned that he didn't have
strength enough to even kick. A great pity filled the eyes of Farmer
Brown's boy as he held Whitefoot's head down and gently shook him. He
was trying to shake some of the sap out of Whitefoot. It ran out of
Whitefoot's nose and out of his mouth. Whitefoot began to gasp. Then
Farmer Brown's boy spread his coat close by the fire, rolled Whitefoot
up in his handkerchief and gently placed him on the coat. For some time
Whitefoot lay just gasping. But presently his breath came easier, and
after a while he was breathing naturally. But he was too weak and tired
to move, so he just lay there while Farmer Brown's boy gently stroked
his head and told him how sorry he was. Little by little Whitefoot recovered his strength. At last he could sit
up, and finally he began to move about a little, although he was still
wobbly on his legs. Farmer Brown's boy put some bits of food where
Whitefoot could get them, and as he ate, Whitefoot's beautiful soft eyes
were filled with gratitude. CHAPTER IX: Two Timid Persons Meet

   Thus always you will meet life's test--
   To do the thing you can do best. --Whitefoot. Jumper the Hare sat crouched at the foot of a tree in the Green Forest. Had you happened along there, you would not have seen him. At least,
I doubt if you would. If you had seen him, you probably wouldn't have
known it. You see, in his white coat Jumper was so exactly the color of
the snow that he looked like nothing more than a little heap of snow. Just in front of Juniper was a little round hole. He gave it no
attention. It didn't interest him in the least. All through the Green
Forest were little holes in the snow. Jumper was so used to them that
he seldom noticed them. So he took no notice of this one until something
moved down in that hole. Jumper's eyes opened a little wider and he
watched. A sharp little face with very bright eyes filled that little
round hole. Jumper moved just the tiniest bit, and in a flash that
sharp little face with the bright eyes disappeared. Jumper sat still
and waited. After a long wait the sharp little face with bright eyes
appeared again. “Don't be frightened, Whitefoot,” said Jumper softly. At
the first word the sharp little face disappeared, but in a moment it was
back, and the sharp little eyes were fixed on Jumper suspiciously. After
a long stare the suspicion left them, and out of the little round hole
came trim little Whitefoot in a soft brown coat with white waistcoat and
with white feet and a long, slim tail. This winter he was not living in
Farmer Brown's sugarhouse. “Gracious, Jumper, how you did scare me!” said he. Jumper chuckled. “Whitefoot, I believe you are more timid than I am,” he
replied. “Why shouldn't I be? I'm ever so much smaller, and I have more enemies,”
 retorted Whitefoot. “It is true you are smaller, but I am not so sure that you have more
enemies,” replied Jumper thoughtfully. “It sometimes seems to me that I
couldn't have more, especially in winter.”

“Name them,” commanded Whitefoot. “Hooty the Great Horned Owl, Yowler the Bob Cat, Old Man Coyote, Reddy
Fox, Terror the Goshawk, Shadow the Weasel, Billy Mink.” Jumper paused. “Is that all?” demanded Whitefoot. “Isn't that enough?” retorted Jumper rather sharply. “I have all of those and Blacky the Crow and Butcher the Shrike and
Sammy Jay in winter, and Buster Hear and Jimmy Skunk and several of the
Snake family in summer,” replied Whitefoot. “It seems to me sometimes as
if I need eyes and ears all over me. Night and day there is always some
one hunting for poor little me. And then some folks wonder why I am so
timid. If I were not as timid as I am, I wouldn't be alive now; I would
have been caught long ago. Folks may laugh at me for being so easily
frightened, but I don't care. That is what saves my life a dozen times a
day.”

Jumper looked interested.