[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: magnetic resonance spectroscopy metabolite brain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: magnetic resonance spectroscopy metabolite brain]

73. NMR Biomed. 2021 Jul;34(7):e4520. doi: 10.1002/nbm.4520. Epub 2021 Apr 28.

Quantification of magnetic resonance spectroscopy data using a combined 
reference: Application in typically developing infants.

Larsen RJ(1), Gagoski B(2)(3)(4), Morton SU(4)(5), Ou Y(2)(3)(4), Vyas R(2), 
Litt J(4)(5)(6), Grant PE(2)(3)(4)(5), Sutton BP(1)(7).

Author information:
(1)Beckman Institute for Advanced Science and Technology, University of Illinois 
at Urbana-Champaign, Urbana, Illinois, USA.
(2)Fetal-Neonatal Neuroimaging and Developmental Science Center, Boston 
Children's Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
(3)Department of Radiology, Boston Children's Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts, 
USA.
(4)Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
(5)Division of Newborn Medicine, Boston Children's Hospital, Boston, 
Massachusetts, USA.
(6)Department of Neonatology, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Boston, 
Massachusetts, USA.
(7)Department of Bioengineering, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, 
Urbana, Illinois, USA.

Quantification of proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy (1 H-MRS) data is 
commonly performed by referencing the ratio of the signal from one metabolite, 
or metabolite group, to that of another, or to the water signal. Both approaches 
have drawbacks: ratios of two metabolites can be difficult to interpret because 
study effects may be driven by either metabolite, and water-referenced data must 
be corrected for partial volume and relaxation effects in the water signal. 
Here, we introduce combined reference (CRef) analysis, which compensates for 
both limitations. In this approach, metabolites are referenced to the combined 
signal of several reference metabolites or metabolite groups. The approach does 
not require the corrections necessary for water scaling and produces results 
that are less sensitive to the variation of any single reference signal, thereby 
aiding the interpretation of results. We demonstrate CRef analysis using 202 1 
H-MRS acquisitions from the brains of 140 infants, scanned at approximately 1 
and 3 months of age. We show that the combined signal of seven reference 
metabolites or metabolite groups is highly correlated with the water signal, 
corrected for partial volume and relaxation effects associated with cerebral 
spinal fluid. We also show that the combined reference signal is equally or more 
uniform across subjects than the reference signals from single metabolites or 
metabolite groups. We use CRef analysis to quantify metabolite concentration 
changes during the first several months of life in typically developing infants.

© 2021 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/nbm.4520
PMID: 33913194 [Indexed for MEDLINE]