[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: cannabis cannabidiol therapeutic epilepsy pain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: cannabis cannabidiol therapeutic epilepsy pain]

31. Drug Test Anal. 2014 Jan-Feb;6(1-2):24-30. doi: 10.1002/dta.1529. Epub 2013
Sep  4.

Therapeutic potential of cannabinoid medicines.

Robson PJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Cannabinoid Research Institute, GW Research Ltd, Porton Down Science Park, 
Salisbury, SP4 0JQ, UK.

Cannabis was extensively used as a medicine throughout the developed world in 
the nineteenth century but went into decline early in the twentieth century 
ahead of its emergence as the most widely used illicit recreational drug later 
that century. Recent advances in cannabinoid pharmacology alongside the 
discovery of the endocannabinoid system (ECS) have re-ignited interest in 
cannabis-based medicines. The ECS has emerged as an important physiological 
system and plausible target for new medicines. Its receptors and endogenous 
ligands play a vital modulatory role in diverse functions including immune 
response, food intake, cognition, emotion, perception, behavioural 
reinforcement, motor co-ordination, body temperature, wake/sleep cycle, bone 
formation and resorption, and various aspects of hormonal control. In disease it 
may act as part of the physiological response or as a component of the 
underlying pathology. In the forefront of clinical research are the cannabinoids 
delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol and cannabidiol, and their contrasting pharmacology 
will be briefly outlined. The therapeutic potential and possible risks of drugs 
that inhibit the ECS will also be considered. This paper will then go on to 
review clinical research exploring the potential of cannabinoid medicines in the 
following indications: symptomatic relief in multiple sclerosis, chronic 
neuropathic pain, intractable nausea and vomiting, loss of appetite and weight 
in the context of cancer or AIDS, psychosis, epilepsy, addiction, and metabolic 
disorders.

Copyright © 2013 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/dta.1529
PMID: 24006213 [Indexed for MEDLINE]