[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: magnetic resonance spectroscopy metabolite brain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: magnetic resonance spectroscopy metabolite brain]

11. World J Gastroenterol. 2017 May 28;23(20):3607-3614. doi: 
10.3748/wjg.v23.i20.3607.

Brain changes detected by functional magnetic resonance imaging and spectroscopy 
in patients with Crohn's disease.

Lv K(1), Fan YH(1), Xu L(1), Xu MS(1).

Author information:
(1)Kun Lv, The First Clinical Medical College of Zhejiang Chinese Medical 
University, Hangzhou 310053, Zhejiang Province, China.

Crohn's disease (CD) is a chronic, non-specific granulomatous inflammatory 
disorder that commonly affects the small intestine and is a phenotype of 
inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). CD is prone to relapse, and its incidence 
displays a persistent increase in developing countries. However, the 
pathogenesis of CD is poorly understood, with some studies emphasizing the link 
between CD and the intestinal microbiota. Specifically, studies point to the 
brain-gut-enteric microbiota axis as a key player in the occurrence and 
development of CD. Furthermore, investigations have shown white-matter lesions 
and neurologic deficits in patients with IBD. Based on these findings, brain 
activity changes in CD patients have been detected by blood oxygenation level 
dependent functional magnetic resonance imaging (BOLD-fMRI). BOLD-fMRI functions 
by detecting a local increase in relative blood oxygenation that results from 
neurotransmitter activity and thus reflects local neuronal firing rates. 
Therefore, biochemical concentrations of neurotransmitters or metabolites may 
change in corresponding brain regions of CD patients. To further study this 
phenomenon, brain changes of CD patients can be detected non-invasively, 
effectively and accurately by BOLD-fMRI combined with magnetic resonance 
spectroscopy (MRS). This approach can further shed light on the mechanisms of 
the occurrence and development of neurological CD. Overall, this paper reviews 
the current status and prospects on fMRI and MRS for evaluation of patients with 
CD based on the brain-gut-enteric microbiota axis.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v23.i20.3607
PMCID: PMC5449417
PMID: 28611513 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict-of-interest statement: No potential 
conflicts of interest exist.