[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: List of EastEnders characters (2004) | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# List of EastEnders characters (2004) — Overview

disease and lives in a hospice. Jane keeps David a secret from her new boss Ian Beale (Adam Woodyatt), but one day Ian demands to know why she is infrequent with her work, and Jane takes him to meet David. Ian regularly visits him until David dies on New Year's Eve 2004, leaving Jane heartbroken, as she had had sex with Ian prior to his death. In January 2008, it is revealed that Jane's brother Christian Clarke (John Partridge) had been in love with David. Sarah Cairns

 
Sarah Cairns, played by Alison Pargeter, is a barmaid in Angie's Den nightclub. She first appears when Martin Fowler (James Alexandrou) and his friends pretend to have a stag party to get free drinks. Martin gets very drunk and is seen flirting with Sarah. The following morning, Martin wakes up in Sarah's bed. Martin admits to Sarah that he has made a mistake as he is married, and Sarah seems to back off. However, it soon emerges that Sarah is mentally unstable and begins stalking Martin as well as sending him text messages declaring her love for him. Sarah eventually runs in front of a car knowing that Martin's wife Sonia Fowler (Natalie Cassidy) will see. Sonia is a nurse, so she looks after Sarah and they become friends. Meanwhile, Sarah convinces herself that Martin loves her and that he will leave Sonia to be with her. Martin keeps the truth about Sarah from Sonia but Sarah tells Martin's family she is dating a "certain" married man, and later confesses to Martin's mother, Pauline Fowler (Wendy Richard) that it is Martin. Martin finds the pressure intolerable and reports Sarah to the police, but they do not believe him. While he is out, Pauline "falls" off a stepladder, and Sarah disappears. Martin tracks her down and threatens her until she confesses that she pushed Pauline. He tells Sarah he will kill her if she shows her face again. Sarah calls the police and Martin spends most of the day at the police station. During this time Sarah goes to the Fowlers' house and tells Sonia of Martin's deceit. When Martin arrives, he apologises to Sonia and promises it meant nothing and will never happen again. When Sonia forgives him, Sarah refuses to leave, still adamant that she and Martin are meant to be together. She finally admits that although Martin fell asleep in her bed, they did not have sex. Sarah realises she can never be with Martin so she stabs him in his stomach with a pen knife. During the fight, Sonia picks up a fruit bowl, hits Sarah on the head with it, and then calls an ambulance for Martin. Sarah falls unconscious and is later committed to a mental institution. Radio Times included Sarah in their feature profiling 'bunny boilers' and of her duration they stated: "If she's not a regular on her way to being written out, she's a guest who appears, causes havoc, and then vanishes again. [...] Sarah was one such, a barmaid in Angie's Den who stalked, harassed and finally stabbed Martin Fowler when he refused to dump Sonia. Last heard of in an institution."

Keith Miller

Keith Miller, played by David Spinx, arrives with his partner Rosie (Gerry Cowper), their twins Darren (Charlie G. Hawkins) and Demi (Shana Swash), joining Rosie's son Mickey (Joe Swash) and moving into 27 Albert Square. He cannot read and is work-shy, tending to sit around watching television all day, making excuses to Rosie as to why he doesn't go and find employment. Yet Rosie yearns for them to get married. However Keith's reluctance to commit and his failure to get a job lead to Rosie leaving Walford in July 2006, along with Demi and her daughter Aleesha. Demi Miller

Demi Miller, played by Shana Swash, is the daughter of Keith and Rosie Miller (David Spinx and Gerry Cowper), and the twin sister of Darren (Charlie G. Hawkins). She moves to Albert Square with her family in September 2004, joining her half brother Mickey (Joe Swash). Aged 13 when she first arrives, Demi becomes the talk of the Square due to her pregnancy. She gives birth to her daughter Aleesha Miller in October. Darren Miller

Darren Miller, played by Charlie G. Hawkins, is the son of Keith and Rosie Miller (David Spinx and Gerry Cowper), and the brother of Demi (Shana Swash). He moves to Albert Square with his family in September 2004, joining his half brother Mickey (Joe Swash). Hawkins discussed his character in 2004: "Darren's a bit of a rough kid. He's a great character to play. There are resemblances of myself in there, although that's a matter of opinion. It's good to play someone like that, where you can have a laugh". Clint

Clint (real name Beverly) is a recurring character played by Huggy Leaver. He appears from 2004 to 2006 as Rosie Miller's (Gerry Cowper) brother. Clint first arrives in his old ice cream van, loaded with all the Millers' possessions. The ice cream van bears the somewhat dubious logo of Clint's Creamy Whip. He comes to Walford to help out his family whenever they need him. He is also seen when Mike Swann (Mark Wingett), Rosie's ex-husband, is staying with the Millers and Keith (David Spinx) needs some support.