[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: biomaterial implant osseointegration titanium clin | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: biomaterial implant osseointegration titanium clinical]

23. Acta Biomater. 2023 Oct 1;169:19-44. doi: 10.1016/j.actbio.2023.07.048. Epub 
2023 Jul 28.

Surface modification of titanium implants with Mg-containing coatings to promote 
osseointegration.

Wang S(1), Zhao X(2), Hsu Y(2), He Y(2), Wang F(2), Yang F(2), Yan F(2), Xia 
D(3), Liu Y(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Prosthodontics, Shanghai Key Laboratory of Stomatology, 
Shanghai Ninth People's Hospital, Shanghai Jiao Tong School of Medicine, College 
of Stomatology, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, National Center for Stomatology, 
National Clinical Research Center for Oral Diseases, Shanghai Research Institute 
of Stomatology, China.
(2)Department of Prosthodontics, Peking University School and Hospital of 
Stomatology, Beijing 100081, China; National Center of Stomatology, National 
Engineering Laboratory for Digital and Material Technology of Stomatology, 
National Clinical Research Center for Oral Diseases, Beijing Key Laboratory of 
Digital Stomatology, NMPA Key Laboratory for Dental Materials, Research Center 
of Engineering and Technology for Computerized Dentistry Ministry of Health, 
Beijing 100081, China.
(3)National Center of Stomatology, National Engineering Laboratory for Digital 
and Material Technology of Stomatology, National Clinical Research Center for 
Oral Diseases, Beijing Key Laboratory of Digital Stomatology, NMPA Key 
Laboratory for Dental Materials, Research Center of Engineering and Technology 
for Computerized Dentistry Ministry of Health, Beijing 100081, China; Department 
of Dental Materials, Peking University School and Hospital of Stomatology, 
Beijing 100081, China. Electronic address: dandanxia@pku.edu.cn.
(4)Department of Prosthodontics, Peking University School and Hospital of 
Stomatology, Beijing 100081, China; National Center of Stomatology, National 
Engineering Laboratory for Digital and Material Technology of Stomatology, 
National Clinical Research Center for Oral Diseases, Beijing Key Laboratory of 
Digital Stomatology, NMPA Key Laboratory for Dental Materials, Research Center 
of Engineering and Technology for Computerized Dentistry Ministry of Health, 
Beijing 100081, China. Electronic address: liuyunsong@hsc.pku.edu.cn.

Titanium (Ti) and Ti alloys are commonly used in dental implants, which have 
good biocompatibility, mechanical strength, processability, and corrosion 
resistance. However, the surface inertia of Ti implants leads to delayed 
integration of Ti and new bone, as well as problems such as aseptic loosening 
and inadequate osseointegration. Magnesium (Mg) ions can promote bone 
regeneration, and many studies have used Mg-containing materials to modify the 
Ti implant surface. This systematic review summarizes the methods, effects, and 
clinical applications of surface modification of Ti implants with Mg-containing 
coatings. Database collection was completed on Janury 1, 2023, and a total of 29 
relevant studies were ultimately included. Mg can be compounded with different 
materials and coated to the surface of Ti implants using different methods. In 
vitro and in vivo experiments have shown that Mg-containing coatings promote 
cell adhesion and osteogenic differentiation. On the one hand, the surface 
roughness of implants increases with the addition of Mg-containing coatings, 
which is thought to have an impact on the osseointegration of the implant. On 
the other hand, Mg ions promote cell attachment through binding interactions 
between the integrin family and FAK-related signaling pathways. And Mg ions 
could induce osseointegration by activating PI3K, Notch, ERK/c-Fos, 
BMP-4-related signaling pathways and TRPM7 protein channels. Overall, Mg-based 
coatings show great potential for the surface modification of Ti implants to 
promote osseointegration. STATEMENT OF SIGNIFICANCE: The inertia surface of 
titanium (Ti) implants leads to delayed osseointegration. Magnesium (Mg) ions, 
known for promoting bone regeneration, have been extensively studied to modify 
the surface of Ti implants. However, no consensus has been reached on the 
appropriate processing methods, surface roughness and effective concentration of 
Mg-containing coatings for osseointegration. This systematic review focus on the 
surface modification of Ti implants with Mg-containing compounds, highlighting 
the effects of Mg-containing coatings on the surface properties of Ti implants 
and its associated mechanisms. Besides, we also provide an outlook on future 
directions to promote the clinical application of Mg-modified implants.

Copyright © 2023 Acta Materialia Inc. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.actbio.2023.07.048
PMID: 37517617 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.