[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: graphene biomedical applications toxicity review | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: graphene biomedical applications toxicity review]

85. Front Syst Neurosci. 2018 Apr 11;12:12. doi: 10.3389/fnsys.2018.00012. 
eCollection 2018.

Interfacing Graphene-Based Materials With Neural Cells.

Bramini M(1)(2), Alberini G(1)(3), Colombo E(1)(2), Chiacchiaretta M(1)(3), 
DiFrancesco ML(1)(2), Maya-Vetencourt JF(1), Maragliano L(1), Benfenati 
F(1)(2)(3), Cesca F(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Center for Synaptic Neuroscience and Technology, Istituto Italiano di 
Tecnologia, Genova, Italy.
(2)Graphene Labs, Istituto Italiano di Tecnologia, Genova, Italy.
(3)Department of Experimental Medicine, Università degli Studi di Genova, 
Genova, Italy.

The scientific community has witnessed an exponential increase in the 
applications of graphene and graphene-based materials in a wide range of fields, 
from engineering to electronics to biotechnologies and biomedical applications. 
For what concerns neuroscience, the interest raised by these materials is 
two-fold. On one side, nanosheets made of graphene or graphene derivatives 
(graphene oxide, or its reduced form) can be used as carriers for drug delivery. 
Here, an important aspect is to evaluate their toxicity, which strongly depends 
on flake composition, chemical functionalization and dimensions. On the other 
side, graphene can be exploited as a substrate for tissue engineering. In this 
case, conductivity is probably the most relevant amongst the various properties 
of the different graphene materials, as it may allow to instruct and interrogate 
neural networks, as well as to drive neural growth and differentiation, which 
holds a great potential in regenerative medicine. In this review, we try to give 
a comprehensive view of the accomplishments and new challenges of the field, as 
well as which in our view are the most exciting directions to take in the 
immediate future. These include the need to engineer multifunctional 
nanoparticles (NPs) able to cross the blood-brain-barrier to reach neural cells, 
and to achieve on-demand delivery of specific drugs. We describe the 
state-of-the-art in the use of graphene materials to engineer three-dimensional 
scaffolds to drive neuronal growth and regeneration in vivo, and the possibility 
of using graphene as a component of hybrid composites/multi-layer organic 
electronics devices. Last but not least, we address the need of an accurate 
theoretical modeling of the interface between graphene and biological material, 
by modeling the interaction of graphene with proteins and cell membranes at the 
nanoscale, and describing the physical mechanism(s) of charge transfer by which 
the various graphene materials can influence the excitability and physiology of 
neural cells.

DOI: 10.3389/fnsys.2018.00012
PMCID: PMC5904258
PMID: 29695956