[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: May Berenbaum | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# May Berenbaum — Overview

Distinguished Teaching Award Awarded the prestigious Ecological Society of America Robert MacArthur Award in 2004 for outstanding contributions to ecology Berenbaum received the 2009 Public Understanding of Science and Technology Award from the American Association for the Advancement of Science. She is an Honorary Member of the British Ecological Society. In March 2011, she was awarded the University of Southern California's Tyler Prize for Environmental Achievement. In 2012, she was named a Swanlund Chair at the University of Illinois
In 2012, she received the Edward O. Wilson Biodiversity Technology Award 
 In November 2014, she had her first new species named after her, a cockroach, Xestoblatta berenbaumae (Evangelista, Kaplan, & Ware 2015). On October 3, 2014, President Barack Obama awarded the National Medal of Science to Berenbaum. She received the medal in a White House ceremony on November 20, 2014. Selected works 

 Berenbaum, M., Miller, J. R., & Miller, T. A. (1988). Insect-Plant Interactions. New York: Springer. Berenbaum, M. (1989). Ninety-nine Gnats, Nits, and Nibblers. Urbana: University of Illinois Press. Rosenthal, G. A., & Berenbaum, M. R. (1992). Herbivores: Their Interactions with Secondary Plant Metabolites. (Herbivores.) San Diego: Academic Press. Berenbaum, M. (1993). Ninety-nine More Maggots, Mites, and Munchers. Urbana: University of Illinois Press. Berenbaum, M. (1996). Bugs in the System: Insects and their Impact on Human Affairs. Reading, Mass: Addison-Wesley. Berenbaum, M. R. (2001). Buzzwords: A Scientist Muses on Sex, Bugs, and Rock'n Roll. Washington, DC: Joseph Henry Press. Jeffords, M. R., Post, S. L., Warwick, C., & Berenbaum, M. (2008). Biologists in the Field: Stories, Tales, and Anecdotes from 150 Years of Field Biology. Champaign, Ill: Illinois Natural History Survey. Berenbaum, M. R. (2009). Earwig's Tail - a Modern Bestiary of Multi-legged Legends. Harvard University Press
 Berenbaum, M. R. (2010). Honey, I'm Homemade: Sweet Treats from the Beehive Across the Centuries and Around the World. Urbana: University of Illinois Press. Sadava, D. E., Hillis, D. M., Heller, H. C., & Berenbaum, M. (2014). Life: The Science of Biology. 10th ed. Berenbaum, M. R. (2023). “Debugging” insect-related conspiracy theories. Annals of the Entomological Society of America, Article saad018. Advance online publication. https://doi.org/10.1093/aesa/saad018

References

External links

May Berenbaum at National Academy of Sciences

1953 births
Living people
American entomologists
Cornell University College of Agriculture and Life Sciences alumni
Fellows of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences
Members of the United States National Academy of Sciences
University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign faculty
Yale College alumni
National Medal of Science laureates
Fellows of the Ecological Society of America
Members of the American Philosophical Society
Women entomologists
Entomological writers
American women biologists
Jewish biologists
Chemical ecologists
Annual Reviews (publisher) editors
Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America editors