[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: nanoparticle drug delivery tumor targeting cancer | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: nanoparticle drug delivery tumor targeting cancer]

31. J Control Release. 2020 Dec 10;328:846-858. doi:
10.1016/j.jconrel.2020.11.003.  Epub 2020 Nov 7.

Tumor-mesoporous silica nanoparticle interactions following intraperitoneal 
delivery for targeting peritoneal metastasis.

Hargrove D(1), Liang B(2), Kashfi-Sadabad R(1), Joshi GN(1), Gonzalez-Fajardo 
L(1), Glass S(1), Jay M(3), Salner A(4), Lu X(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of Connecticut, Storrs, 
USA.
(2)School of Medicine, University of Connecticut, Storrs, CT, USA.
(3)Eshelman School of Pharmacy, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC, 
USA.
(4)Helen and Harrry Gray Cancer Center, Hartford Hospital Department of 
Radiation Oncology, Hartford, CT, USA.
(5)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of Connecticut, Storrs, 
USA. Electronic address: xiuling.lu@uconn.edu.

The use of intraperitoneal administration of nanoparticles has been reported to 
facilitate higher concentrations of nanoparticles in metastatic peritoneal 
tumors. While this strategy is appealing for limiting systemic exposure of 
nanocarrier delivered toxic cargoes and increasing nanoparticle concentrations 
in avascular peritoneal tumors, little is known about the mechanism of 
nanoparticle accumulation on tumor tissues and currently, no nanoparticle-based 
product has been approved for intraperitoneal delivery. Here, we investigated 
the nanoparticle-specific characteristics that led to increased peritoneal tumor 
accumulation using MCM-41 type mesoporous silica nanoparticles as our model 
system. We also investigated the components of the peritoneal tumor stroma that 
facilitated nanoparticle-tumor interaction. The tumor extracellular matrix is 
the main factor driving these interactions, specifically the interaction of 
nanoparticles with collagen. Upon disruption of the collagen matrix, 
nanoparticle accumulation was reduced by 50%. It is also notable that the 
incorporation of targeting ligands did not increase overall tumor accumulation 
in vivo while it significantly increased nanoparticle accumulation in vitro. The 
use of other particle chemistries did not grossly affect the tumor 
targetability, but additional concerns arose when those tested particles 
exhibited significant systemic exposure. Mesoporous silica nanoparticles are 
advantageous for intraperitoneal administration for the treatment of peritoneal 
metastasis due to their physical stability, tumor targetability, strong 
interaction with the collagen matrix, and extended peritoneal residence time. 
Maximizing nanoparticle interaction with the tumor extracellular matrix is 
critical for developing strategies to deliver emerging therapeutics for 
peritoneal cancer treatment using nanocarriers.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jconrel.2020.11.003
PMCID: PMC7749032
PMID: 33166606 [Indexed for MEDLINE]