[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: biomaterial implant osseointegration titanium clin | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: biomaterial implant osseointegration titanium clinical]

38. Acta Biomater. 2014 Aug;10(8):3363-71. doi: 10.1016/j.actbio.2014.03.037.
Epub  2014 Apr 8.

Implant osseointegration and the role of microroughness and nanostructures: 
lessons for spine implants.

Gittens RA(1), Olivares-Navarrete R(2), Schwartz Z(3), Boyan BD(4).

Author information:
(1)School of Materials Science and Engineering, Georgia Institute of Technology, 
Atlanta, GA, USA; Institute for Bioengineering and Bioscience, Georgia Institute 
of Technology, Atlanta, GA, USA; Center for Biodiversity and Drug Discovery, 
Institute for Scientific Research and High Technology Services (INDICASAT-AIP), 
Panama, Panama.
(2)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Virginia Commonwealth University, 
Richmond, VA, USA.
(3)Institute for Bioengineering and Bioscience, Georgia Institute of Technology, 
Atlanta, GA, USA; Department of Biomedical Engineering, Virginia Commonwealth 
University, Richmond, VA, USA.
(4)School of Materials Science and Engineering, Georgia Institute of Technology, 
Atlanta, GA, USA; Institute for Bioengineering and Bioscience, Georgia Institute 
of Technology, Atlanta, GA, USA; Department of Biomedical Engineering, Virginia 
Commonwealth University, Richmond, VA, USA; Wallace H. Coulter Department of 
Biomedical Engineering at Georgia Tech and Emory University, Georgia Institute 
of Technology, Atlanta, GA, USA. Electronic address: bboyan@vcu.edu.

The use of spinal implants for spine fusion has been steadily increasing to 
avoid the risks of complications and donor site morbidity involved when using 
autologous bone. A variety of fusion cages are clinically available, with 
different shapes and chemical compositions. However, detailed information about 
their surface properties and the effects of such properties on osteogenesis is 
lacking in the literature. Here we evaluate the role of surface properties for 
spinal implant applications, covering some of the key biological processes that 
occur around an implant and focusing on the role of surface properties, 
specifically the surface structure, on osseointegration, drawing examples from 
other implantology fields when required. Our findings revealed that surface 
properties such as microroughness and nanostructures can directly affect early 
cell behavior and long-term osseointegration. Microroughness has been well 
established in the literature to have a beneficial effect on osseointegration of 
implants. In the case of the role of nanostructures, the number of reports is 
increasing and most studies reveal a positive effect from the nanostructures 
alone and a synergistic effect when combined with microrough surfaces. Long-term 
clinical results are nevertheless necessary to establish the full implications 
of surface nanomodifications.

Copyright © 2014 Acta Materialia Inc. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.actbio.2014.03.037
PMCID: PMC4103432
PMID: 24721613 [Indexed for MEDLINE]