[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: TiO2-Based Nanomaterials for Gas Sensing—Influence of Anatas | Type: OpenAlex-OA | Level: Graduate]

[OpenAlex | Materials Science | Year: 2017 | Citations: 88]

Title: TiO2-Based Nanomaterials for Gas Sensing—Influence of Anatase and Rutile Contributions

Abstract:
The paper deals with application of three nanomaterial systems: undoped TiO2, chromium-doped TiO2:Cr and TiO2-SnO2 synthesized by flame spray synthesis (FSS) technique for hydrogen sensing. The emphasis is put on the role of anatase and rutile polymorphic forms of TiO2 in enhancing sensitivity towards reducing gases. Anatase-to-rutile transformation is achieved by annealing of undoped TiO2 in air at 700 °C, specific Cr doping and modification with SnO2. Undoped TiO2 and TiO2-SnO2 exhibit n-type behaviour and while TiO2: 5 at.% Cr is a p-type semiconductor. X-ray diffraction (XRD) has been applied to determine anatase-to-rutile weight ratio as well as anatase and rutile crystal size. Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and transmission electron microscopy (TEM) have been used to characterize the structure and morphological parameters. Optical reflectometry enabled to find and compare the band gaps E g of anatase and rutile predominated compositions. Electrical properties, i.e. the electrical conductivity and values of constant phase element (CPE), have been established on the basis of impedance spectroscopy. Dynamic responses of the electrical resistance as a function of hydrogen concentration revealed that predominance of rutile in anatase/rutile mixture is beneficial for gas sensing. Partial transformation to rutile in all three material systems under study resulted in an increased sensitivity towards hydrogen. It is proposed that this effect can be explained in a similar way as in photocatalysis, i.e. by specific band alignment and electron transfer from rutile to anatase to facilitate oxygen preadsorption on the surface of anatase grains.