[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: Moisture analysis | Type: Instruction-QA | Level: Graduate]

Question: Provide a comprehensive expert-level explanation of Moisture analysis in the context of Applied Sciences.

Answer:
Moisture analysis covers a variety of methods for measuring the moisture content in solids, liquids, or gases. For example, moisture (usually measured as a percentage) is a common specification in commercial food production. There are many applications where trace moisture measurements are necessary for manufacturing and process quality assurance.  Trace moisture in solids must be known in processes involving plastics, pharmaceuticals and heat treatment.  Fields that require moisture measurement in gasses or liquids include hydrocarbon processing, pure semiconductor gases, bulk pure or mixed gases, dielectric gases such as those in transformers and power plants, and natural gas pipeline transport. Moisture content measurements can be reported in multiple units, such as: parts per million, pounds of water per million standard cubic feet of gas, mass of water vapor per unit volume or mass of water vapor per unit mass of dry gas.

Moisture content vs. moisture dew point 
Moisture dew point is the temperature at which moisture condenses out of a gas. This parameter is inherently related to the moisture content, which defines the amount of water molecules as a fraction of the total. Both can be used as a measure of the amount of moisture in a gas and one can be calculated from the other fairly accurately.

While both terms are sometimes used interchangeably, these two parameters, though related, are different measurements.

Loss on drying 
The classic laboratory method of measuring high-level moisture in solid or semi-solid materials is loss on drying. In this technique, a sample of material is weighed, heated in an oven for an appropriate period, cooled in the dry atmosphere of a desiccator, and then reweighed. If the volatile content of the solid is primarily water, the loss on drying technique gives a good measure of moisture content.  Because the manual laboratory method is relatively slow, automated moisture analysers have been developed that can reduce the time necessary for a test from a couple of hours to just a few minutes.  These analysers incorporate an electronic balance with a sample tray and surrounding heating element.  Under microprocessor control, the sample can be heated rapidly. The moisture loss rate is measured throughout the process and then plotted in the form of a drying curve.

Karl Fischer titration
An accurate method for determining the amount of water is the Karl Fischer titration, developed in 1935 by the German chemist, whose name it bears. This method detects only water, contrary to loss on drying, which detects any volatile substances.

Techniques used for natural gas
Natural gas poses a unique problem in terms of moisture content analysis because it can contain very high levels of solid and liquid contaminants, as well as corrosives in varying concentrations.

Measurements of moisture in natural gas are typically performed with one of the following techniques:

 color indicator tubes
 chilled mirrors
 chilled mirror combined with spectroscopy
 electrolytic
 piezoelectric sorption, also known as quartz crystal microbalance
 aluminum oxide and silicon oxide
 spectroscopy.

Other moisture measurement techniques exist but are not used in natural gas applications for various reasons. For example, the gravimetric hygrometer and the “two-pressure” system used by the National Bureau of Standards are precise, but are not suitable for use in industrial applications.

Color indicator tubes

A color indicator tube (also referred to as a gas detector tube) is a device that natural gas pipelines use for a quick and rough measurement of moisture. Each tube contains chemicals that react to a specific compound to form a stain or color when passed through the gas. The tubes are used once and then discarded. A manufacturer calibrates the tubes, but since the measurement is directly related to exposure time, the flow rate, and the extractive technique, it is susceptible to error. In practice, the error can reach up to 25 percent. The color indicator tubes are well suited for infrequent, rough estimations of moisture in natural gas.

Chilled mirrors
This type of device is considered the most popular when it comes to measuring the dew point of water in gaseous media. In this type of device, when gas flows across a reflective cooling surface, the eponymous chilled mirror. When the surface is cold enough, the available moisture will start to condense onto it in tiny droplets. The exact temperature at which this condensation first occurs is registered, and the mirror is slowly heated until the condensed water begins to evaporate. This temperature is also registered and the average of the condensation and evaporation temperatures is reported as the dew point. All chilled-mirror devices, both manual and automatic, are based on this same basic method. It is necessary to measure temperatures of both the condensation and evaporation, because the dew point is the equilibrium temperature at which water both condense and evaporate at the same rate. When cooling the mirror, the temperature keeps dropping after it has reached the dew point thus, the condensation temperature measurement is lower than the actual dew point temperature before water starts to condense. Therefore, the temperature of the mirror is slowly increased until evaporation is observed to occur and the dew point is reported as the average of these two temperatures. By obtaining an accurate dew point temperature, one can calculate moisture content in the gas. The mirror temperature can be regulated by either the flow of a refrigerant over the mirror or by a thermoelectric cooler also known as a Peltier element.

The formation behavior of condensation on the mirror's surface can be registered by either optical or visual means. In both cases, a light source is directed onto the mirror and changes in the reflection of this light due to the formation of condensation are detected by a sensor or the human eye, respectively. The exact