[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: phytotherapy systematic review clinical evidence | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: phytotherapy systematic review clinical evidence]

68. J Ethnopharmacol. 2012 Apr 10;140(3):555-67. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2012.01.031. 
Epub 2012 Feb 9.

Comparison of effectiveness and safety between granules and decoction of Chinese 
herbal medicine: a systematic review of randomized clinical trials.

Luo H(1), Li Q, Flower A, Lewith G, Liu J.

Author information:
(1)Center for Evidence-Based Chinese Medicine, Beijing University of Chinese 
Medicine, Beijing 100029, China.

BACKGROUND: The clinical use of Chinese herbal medicine granules is gradually 
increasing. However, there is still no systematic review comparing the 
effectiveness and safety of granules with the more traditional method of herbal 
decoctions.
METHOD: A literature search was conducted using China National Knowledge 
Infrastructure Databases (CNKI), Chinese Science and Technology Periodical 
Database (VIP), China Biomedical Database web (CBM), Wanfang Database, PubMed, 
and the Cochrane Library until March 10, 2011. Clinical controlled trials (CCTs) 
including randomized trials (RCTs) comparing the effectiveness and safety 
between Chinese herbal medicine granules and decoction were included. Two 
authors conducted the literature searches, and extracted data independently. The 
assessment of methodological quality of RCTs was based on the risk of bias from 
the Cochrane Handbook, and the main outcome data of trials were analyzed by 
using RevMan 5.0 software. Risk ratio (RR) or mean difference (MD) with a 95% 
confidence interval (CI) were used as effect measure.
RESULTS: 56 clinical trials (n=9748) including 42 RCTs and 14 CCTs were 
included, and all trials were conducted in China and published in Chinese 
literature. 40 types of diseases and 15 syndromes of traditional Chinese 
medicine (TCM) were reported. Granules were provided by pharmaceutical companies 
in 13 trials. The included RCTs were of generally low methodological quality: 7 
trials reported adequate randomization methods, and 2 of these reported 
allocation concealment. 10 trials used blinding, of which 5 trials used placebo 
which were delivered double blind (blinded participants and practitioners). 
98.2% (55/56) of studies showed that there was no significant statistical 
difference between granules and decoctions of Chinese herbal medicine for their 
effectiveness. No severe adverse effects in either group were reported.
CONCLUSIONS: Due to the poor methodological quality of most of the included 
trials, it is not possible to reach a definitive conclusion whether both Chinese 
herbal medicine granules and decoctions have the same degree of effectiveness 
and safety in clinical practice, but this preliminary evidence supports the 
continued use of granules in clinical practice and research. Standardization of 
granules and further more rigorous pharmacological, toxicological and clinical 
studies are needed to demonstrate the equivalence with decoctions.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2012.01.031
PMID: 22343092 [Indexed for MEDLINE]