[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: ethnobotany traditional medicine biological activi | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: ethnobotany traditional medicine biological activity]

73. J Ethnopharmacol. 2019 Jul 15;239:111842. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2019.111842.
Epub  2019 Apr 1.

Historical and traditional medical applications of Carlina acaulis L. - A 
critical ethnopharmacological review.

Strzemski M(1), Wójciak-Kosior M(2), Sowa I(2), Załuski D(3), Verpoorte R(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Analytical Chemistry, Medical University of Lublin, Chodźki 4a, 
20-093 Lublin, Poland. Electronic address: maciej.strzemski@poczta.onet.pl.
(2)Department of Analytical Chemistry, Medical University of Lublin, Chodźki 4a, 
20-093 Lublin, Poland.
(3)Department of Pharmacognosy, Ludwik Rydygier Collegium Medicum, Nicolaus 
Copernicus University, Marie Curie-Skłodowska 9, 85-094 Bydgoszcz, Poland.
(4)Natural Products Laboratory, Institute of Biology, Leiden University, 2300, 
RA Leiden, the Netherlands.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: The genus Carlina (Asteraceae) comprises approx. 
30 plant species growing in Europe and Asia. Carlina acaulis L. was widely used 
as medicine, especially in Germany and Poland. The plant root was applied e.g. 
to treat various skin diseases and as a diaphoretic, diuretic, and anthelmintic 
agent. At the end of the 19th century, the medicinal use of the plant ceased 
though C. acaulis roots are still used in folk medicine, especially in rural 
areas of the Balkans where the plant grows in the wild.
AIM OF THE REVIEW: The aim of this review is to compile historical and current 
ethnomedical uses of C. acaulis and compare these applications with the results 
of modern chemical and pharmacological research of this plant. This analysis may 
give a lead for further research on this old, almost forgotten medicinal plant.
METHODOLOGY: Historical data on the medicinal application of C. acaulis over 
many centuries were collected. The historical uses were compared with the 
contemporary indications. The present day knowledge on the chemistry and 
biological activity of C. acaulis is also reviewed. This information is compared 
with the ethnopharmacological information.
RESULTS: Plants from the genus Carlina were already described by Theophrastus of 
Eresus, Dioscorides, Pliny the Elder, and Galen of Pergamum. Carlinae radix was 
still featured in Renaissance botanical books and in official pharmacopoeias, 
but disappeared from the scene in the 19th century. The present day information 
on the phytochemistry and pharmacological activity of these plants is limited. 
There are some data on the occurrence of common plant ingredients such as 
essential oil, flavonoids, phenolic acids, triterpenes, inulin, and fatty acids. 
However, most concern the green parts of the plant. Its medicinal use remains 
poorly understood, as there are only very limited results of in-vitro studies on 
the roots.
CONCLUSIONS: The historical uses of the plant can still be found in rural areas. 
Yet, detailed phytochemical and pharmacological research is needed to evaluate 
the effectiveness and safety of the medical use of Carlina acaulis.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2019.111842
PMID: 30948315 [Indexed for MEDLINE]