[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: plant alkaloid biosynthesis pathway elucidation | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: plant alkaloid biosynthesis pathway elucidation]

77. Plant Cell Rep. 2021 Jan;40(1):1-18. doi: 10.1007/s00299-020-02599-9. Epub
2020  Sep 21.

Membrane transporters: the key drivers of transport of secondary metabolites in 
plants.

Gani U(1)(2), Vishwakarma RA(1), Misra P(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Plant Sciences Division, CSIR-Indian Institute of Integrative Medicine, Canal 
Road, Jammu Tawi, Jammu, 180001, India.
(2)Academy of Scientific and Innovative Research (AcSIR), Ghaziabad, 201002, 
India.
(3)Plant Sciences Division, CSIR-Indian Institute of Integrative Medicine, Canal 
Road, Jammu Tawi, Jammu, 180001, India. pmisra@iiim.res.in.
(4)Academy of Scientific and Innovative Research (AcSIR), Ghaziabad, 201002, 
India. pmisra@iiim.res.in.

This review summarizes the recent updates in the area of transporters of plant 
secondary metabolites, including their applied aspects in metabolic engineering 
of economically important secondary metabolites. Plants have evolved 
biosynthetic pathways to produce structurally diverse secondary metabolites, 
which serve distinct functions, including defense against pathogens and 
herbivory, thereby playing a pivotal role in plant ecological interactions. 
These compounds often display interesting bioactivities and, therefore, have 
been used as repositories of natural drugs and phytoceuticals for humans. At an 
elevated level, plant secondary metabolites could be cytotoxic to the plant cell 
itself; therefore, plants have developed sophisticated mechanisms to sequester 
these compounds to prevent cytotoxicity. Many of these valuable natural 
compounds and their precursors are biosynthesized and accumulated at diverse 
subcellular locations, and few are even transported to sink organs via 
long-distance transport, implying the involvement of compartmentalization via 
intra- and intercellular transport mechanisms. The transporter proteins 
belonging to different families of transporters, especially ATP binding cassette 
(ABC) and multidrug and toxic compound extrusion (MATE) have been implicated in 
membrane-mediated transport of certain plant secondary metabolites. Despite 
increasing reports on the characterization of transporter proteins and their 
genes, our knowledge about the transporters of several medicinally and 
economically important plant secondary metabolites is still enigmatic. A 
comprehensive understanding of the molecular mechanisms underlying the whole 
route of secondary metabolite transportome, in addition to the biosynthetic 
pathways, will aid in systematic and targeted metabolic engineering of 
high-value secondary metabolites. The present review embodies a comprehensive 
update on the progress made in the elucidation of transporters of secondary 
metabolites in view of basic and applied aspects of their transport mechanism.

DOI: 10.1007/s00299-020-02599-9
PMID: 32959124 [Indexed for MEDLINE]