[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: magnetic resonance spectroscopy metabolite brain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: magnetic resonance spectroscopy metabolite brain]

32. Magn Reson Med. 2020 Oct;84(4):1689-1706. doi: 10.1002/mrm.28234. Epub 2020
Mar  5.

Deep learning-based target metabolite isolation and big data-driven measurement 
uncertainty estimation in proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy of the brain.

Lee HH(1), Kim H(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical Sciences, Seoul National University, Seoul, Korea.
(2)Department of Radiology, Seoul National University Hospital, Seoul, Korea.

PURPOSE: The aim of this study was to develop a method for metabolite 
quantification with simultaneous measurement uncertainty estimation in deep 
learning-based proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy (1 H-MRS).
METHODS: The reliability of metabolite quantification depends on signal-to-noise 
ratio (SNR), linewidth, and degree of spectral overlap (DSO), and therefore 
knowledge about these factors may be utilized in measurement uncertainty 
estimation in deep learning-based 1 H-MRS. While SNR and linewidth are typically 
estimated from a representative singlet, DSO needs to be estimated 
metabolite-specifically. We developed convolutional neural networks (CNNs) 
capable of isolating target metabolite signal on simulated rat brain spectra at 
9.4T, such that, in addition to metabolite content, the signal-to-background 
ratio (SBR) as a quantitative metric of DSO can be estimated directly from 
CNN-output for each metabolite. The CNN-predicted SBR was adjusted according to 
its pre-defined relationship to the ground-truth SBR by exploiting the big 
spectral data (N = 80 000), and used for measurement uncertainty estimation 
together with the SNR and linewidth from the CNN-input spectrum. The proposed 
method was tested first on the simulated spectra in comparison with LCModel and 
jMRUI and further on in vivo spectra.
RESULTS: The proposed method outperformed LCModel and jMRUI in both quantitative 
accuracy and measurement uncertainty estimation. Using in vivo data, the 
metabolite concentrations from the proposed method were close to the reported 
ranges with the measurement uncertainty of glutamine, glutamate, myo-inositol, 
N-acetylaspartate, and Tau less than 10%.
CONCLUSION: The proposed method may be used for metabolite quantification with 
measurement uncertainty estimation in rat brain at 9.4T by exploiting the 
spectral isolation capability of the CNNs and the availability of big spectral 
data.

© 2020 International Society for Magnetic Resonance in Medicine.

DOI: 10.1002/mrm.28234
PMID: 32141155 [Indexed for MEDLINE]