[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: ethnobotany traditional medicine biological activi | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: ethnobotany traditional medicine biological activity]

14. Chem Biodivers. 2026 Mar;23(3):e01967. doi: 10.1002/cbdv.202501967.

A Review of the Ethnobotany, Biological Activity, and Bioactive Compounds of the 
Plants in the Iphiona Genus.

Hamzeloo-Moghadam M(1), Pasdaran A(2), Paslari H(3), Rasti AH(3), Kozuharova 
E(4), Hamedi A(2)(5).

Author information:
(1)Traditional Medicine and Materia Medica Research Center and Department of 
Traditional Pharmacy, School of Traditional Medicine, Shahid Beheshti University 
of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(2)Department of Pharmacognosy, School of Pharmacy, Shiraz University of Medical 
Sciences, Shiraz, Iran.
(3)Student Research Committee, School of Pharmacy, Shiraz University of Medical 
Sciences, Shiraz, Iran.
(4)Department of Pharmacognosy, Faculty of Pharmacy, Medical University of 
Sofia, Sofia, Bulgaria.
(5)Medicinal Plants Processing Research Center, Shiraz University of Medical 
Sciences, Shiraz, Iran.

Thirteen species of Iphiona are distributed in Asia and Africa. Though Iphiona 
plants have a history of usage among local people, the research on their 
phytochemistry or biological activity has been limited to some studies in recent 
years. This review aimed to collect the present data about Iphiona species and 
introduce these plants as interesting candidates for future studies. The 
published studies up to March 2025 were collected from Web of Science, PubMed, 
Scopus, and Google Scholar. The keywords included: Iphiona AND ethnobotany, 
ethnomedicine, traditional medicine, natural molecule, food, pharmacology, 
phytochemistry, compounds, biological activity, therapeutic potential, natural 
medicine, mechanism of action, phytochemicals, secondary metabolites, primary 
metabolites, alkaloid, flavonoid, terpenoid, polyphenol, monoterpene, 
sesquiterpene, essential oil, steroid, resin, gum, polysaccharide, oil, protein, 
mineral, vitamin, fatty acid, supplement, nutrition, meta-analysis, clinical 
trial, toxicity, and side effects. The evaluated studies revealed the presence 
of terpenoids, flavonoids, chlorogenic acid derivatives and phyosterols as the 
most dominant constituents found in the plants. Antioxidant, antimicrobial, 
antifungal, cytotoxic, hepatoprotective, and α-amylase inhibitory activity have 
been reported from the plants of Iphiona genus. This review suggests Iphiona as 
an important, interesting, novel genus, yet to be explored for secondary 
metabolites and biological activities.

© 2026 Wiley‐VHCA AG.

DOI: 10.1002/cbdv.202501967
PMID: 41823046 [Indexed for MEDLINE]