[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: cannabis cannabidiol therapeutic epilepsy pain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: cannabis cannabidiol therapeutic epilepsy pain]

4. Nat Rev Neurol. 2020 Jan;16(1):9-29. doi: 10.1038/s41582-019-0284-z. Epub 2019
 Dec 12.

Cannabinoids and the expanded endocannabinoid system in neurological disorders.

Cristino L(1), Bisogno T(2), Di Marzo V(3)(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Biomolecular Chemistry, Consiglio Nazionale delle Ricerche, 
Pozzuoli, Italy.
(2)Institute of Translational Pharmacology, Consiglio Nazionale delle Ricerche, 
Rome, Italy.
(3)Institute of Biomolecular Chemistry, Consiglio Nazionale delle Ricerche, 
Pozzuoli, Italy. vincenzo.di-marzo.1@ulaval.ca.
(4)Heart and Lung Research Institute of Université Laval, Québec City, Québec, 
Canada. vincenzo.di-marzo.1@ulaval.ca.
(5)Institute for Nutrition and Functional Foods, Université Laval, Québec City, 
Québec, Canada. vincenzo.di-marzo.1@ulaval.ca.

Anecdotal evidence that cannabis preparations have medical benefits together 
with the discovery of the psychotropic plant cannabinoid Δ9-tetrahydrocannabinol 
(THC) initiated efforts to develop cannabinoid-based therapeutics. These efforts 
have been marked by disappointment, especially in relation to the unwanted 
central effects that result from activation of cannabinoid receptor 1 (CB1), 
which have limited the therapeutic use of drugs that activate or inactivate this 
receptor. The discovery of CB2 and of endogenous cannabinoid receptor ligands 
(endocannabinoids) raised new possibilities for safe targeting of this 
endocannabinoid system. However, clinical success has been limited, complicated 
by the discovery of an expanded endocannabinoid system - known as the 
endocannabinoidome - that includes several mediators that are biochemically 
related to the endocannabinoids, and their receptors and metabolic enzymes. The 
approvals of nabiximols, a mixture of THC and the non-psychotropic cannabinoid 
cannabidiol, for the treatment of spasticity and neuropathic pain in multiple 
sclerosis, and of purified botanical cannabidiol for the treatment of otherwise 
untreatable forms of paediatric epilepsy, have brought the therapeutic use of 
cannabinoids and endocannabinoids in neurological diseases into the limelight. 
In this Review, we provide an overview of the endocannabinoid system and the 
endocannabinoidome before discussing their involvement in and clinical relevance 
to a variety of neurological disorders, including Parkinson disease, Alzheimer 
disease, Huntington disease, multiple sclerosis, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, 
traumatic brain injury, stroke, epilepsy and glioblastoma.

DOI: 10.1038/s41582-019-0284-z
PMID: 31831863 [Indexed for MEDLINE]