[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: Anjangaon | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Anjangaon — Overview

a list of schools and colleges in the area: Sitabai Sangai Highschool Nagar Parishad Urdu High School Killa Sitabai Sangai Kanya Shala Sitabai Sangai Prathamik Shala Sitabai Sangai Jr. college. Sangai Naka Rd. Raisaheb Moti Sangai English School Smt. Radhabai Sarda College of Arts, Commerce and Science, Deogire Nagar. Vidyaniketan College Of Pharmacy. Pragtik Vidyalaya, Main Rd. Green Hearts School (Gurukul), Vrindavan, achalpur Rd., Srinath jr. College, City Rd.,
Dnyanpith D.Ed. College. panchayat samiti rd.,
St. Mary's English School.Arokia Matha Church Compound, Daryapur Road
Smt.K.S.English School, station Rd.,
Smt. Panchfulabai Harne Jr. College, Rest House Rd.,
Smt.Radhabai Sarda Jr.College, Deogire Nagar.,
Dnyanpith English School.Station Rd. Shrirang Chitrakala Mahavidyalaya, station rd.,
Govt.Institute of Tech. Industries, MIDC Rd.,
Arts College, Tower Rd.,
Smt.Indira Gandhi Technical College, Alkari Wada, P.O.rd.,
Shri.Maniklalji Sarda D.Ed.College, Deogire Nagar.,
Sri. Chintamani D.Ed. College, near Vyenktesh theater. Rashtra Sant Tukdoji D.Ed. College, tehsil rd., Surji. Dr. Sufi Urdu junior college Arts & science. Shantabai Shrivastava English School, Near water tank, Surji. Study Circle Convent, Surji. Shreenath High school, Surji
Shri Sakharam maharaj primary school, Surji
Vidhyaniketan Junior College of commerce and Science, Takarkheda Naka. Vidhyaniketan College Of Pharmacy, Takarkheda road, Anjangaon Surji. Banking  
There are a seven nationalized banks as well as co-operative banks in the city. A short list includes
State Bank of India (SBI), 
Central Bank of India (CBI),
Bank of Maharashtra (BOM),
India Post Payment Bank (IPPB) by Department of Post,
Amravati District Co-operative Bank (ADCC),
Union Bank of India (UBI), 
Bank of India (BOI),
HDFC,
Axis Bank,
Khmagaon Urban Co-operative Bank,
Buldhana Urban Co-operative Bank,
Janata Sahakari Bank. Pusad Urban Co-operative bank

Culture 
In Surji area Dwarkeshwar Yatra is a major event to be held every year on second day of Pola festival. Various religious functions are celebrated like Piwali Marbat, Rupalal Punyatithi, Chaitra Paurnima Rathotsav of Jains etc. Kathichi Jatra is a fair cum festival of the city. The fair is organised on every Monday from Nagapanchami to Pola Festival. Industry

There is a co-operative sugar factory named as "Ambadevi Sahakari Sakhar Karkhana" which is not operational currently. The cotton ginning and pressing companies, sawmills, oil mills are the main industries in the area. There are a few fruit packaging and agro product's companies. Fruit cultivation and marketing
Anjangaon Surji is famous for bananas and oranges. Anjangaon is the main centre for the supply of bananas in Maharashtra along with Jalgaon. Bananas are supplied across north India (Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Jammu, Punjab, Uttarakhand, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, and Delhi) and Nepal from here. Anjangaon Surji is also one of the leading place for production of long pepper (Piper longum, or Pippali), sometimes called Indian long pepper, is a flowering vine in the family Piperaceae, is also cultivated for its fruit, which is usually dried and used as a spice and seasoning. Transport 

Anjangaon is connected to Betul (101 km) and Khamgaon (101 km) via National Highway 548C Amravati (82 km) and Akola (85 km) by roadways. The state transport (MSRTC) buses ply from Anjangaon to Amravati, Paratwada, Akola, Akot, Ramtek, Yavatmal, Pandharkavada, Nagpur, Aurangabad etc. Some private travel agencies run bus services to Pune and Mumbai. Anjangaon Surji is a station of Bhusaval–Nagpur section of Central Railway on Achalpur-Murtijapur narrow gauge railway route. This narrow gauge train is popularly known as Shakuntala Express. Nearest broad gauge railway station is Murtijapur(50 km). Nearest airports are Amravati Airport (82 km), Akola Airport (85 km) and Nagpur Airport (250 km). References 

  https://web.archive.org/web/20131206060026/http://santeknath.org/shishya%20parampara.html

http://www.census2011.co.in/data/town/802684-anjangaon-maharashtra.html

Cities and towns in Amravati district
Talukas in Maharashtra