[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: photodynamic therapy cancer clinical trial | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: photodynamic therapy cancer clinical trial]

1. Nat Rev Clin Oncol. 2020 Nov;17(11):657-674. doi: 10.1038/s41571-020-0410-2. 
Epub 2020 Jul 22.

Clinical development and potential of photothermal and photodynamic therapies 
for cancer.

Li X(1), Lovell JF(2), Yoon J(3), Chen X(4).

Author information:
(1)College of Chemistry, Fuzhou University, Fuzhou, China.
(2)Department of Biomedical Engineering, State University of New York at 
Buffalo, Buffalo, NY, USA. jflovell@buffalo.edu.
(3)Department of Chemistry and Nanoscience, Ewha Womans University, Seoul, 
Republic of Korea. jyoon@ewha.ac.kr.
(4)Laboratory of Molecular Imaging and Nanomedicine (LOMIN), National Institute 
of Biomedical Imaging and Bioengineering (NIBIB), National Institutes of Health 
(NIH), Bethesda, MA, USA. shawn.chen@nih.gov.

Light-activated, photosensitizer-based therapies have been established as safe 
modalities of tumour ablation for numerous cancer indications. Two main 
approaches are available: photodynamic therapy, which results in localized 
chemical damage in the target lesions, and photothermal therapy, which results 
in localized thermal damage. Whereas the administration of photosensitizers is a 
key component of photodynamic therapy, exogenous photothermal contrast agents 
are not required for photothermal therapy but can enhance the efficiency and 
efficacy of treatment. Over the past decades, great strides have been made in 
the development of phototherapeutic drugs and devices as cancer treatments, but 
key challenges have restricted their widespread clinical use outside of certain 
dermatological indications. Improvements in the tumour specificity of 
photosensitizers, achieved through targeting or localized activation, could 
provide better outcomes with fewer adverse effects, as could combinations with 
chemotherapies or immunotherapies. In this Review, we provide an overview of the 
current clinical progress of phototherapies for cancer and discuss the emerging 
preclinical bioengineering approaches that have the potential to overcome 
challenges in this area and thus improve the efficiency and utility of such 
treatments.

DOI: 10.1038/s41571-020-0410-2
PMID: 32699309 [Indexed for MEDLINE]