[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: herbal medicine drug interaction pharmacokinetics | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: herbal medicine drug interaction pharmacokinetics]

52. Ther Drug Monit. 2008 Apr;30(2):212-7. doi: 10.1097/FTD.0b013e31816b918f.

Herbal supplements and therapeutic drug monitoring: focus on digoxin 
immunoassays and interactions with St. John's wort.

Dasgupta A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, University of Texas Health 
Sciences Center at Houston, Houston, Texas, USA. Amitava.Dasgupta@uth.tmc.edu

Herbal supplements can affect concentrations of therapeutic drugs measured in 
biological fluids by different mechanisms. Herbal products can either directly 
interfere with the methodology used in the measurement of drugs or indirectly 
interfere by altering the pharmacokinetics of coadministered drugs. The active 
components of Chan Su, Lu-Shen-Wan, Dan Shen, Asian and Siberian ginseng, 
oleander containing supplements, and Ashwagandha interfere with digoxin 
measurements by immunoassays, especially the polyclonal antibody-based 
immunoassays. Herbal supplements are sometimes contaminated with Western drugs 
causing drug toxicity. A therapeutic drug monitoring (TDM) service is very 
helpful for diagnosis of drug toxicity in such patients. Herbal products such as 
St. John's wort, a popular herbal antidepressant, increase the clearance of 
certain drugs either by increasing the activity of liver or intestinal 
cytochrome P-450 mixed-function oxidase or through modulation of the 
P-glycoprotein efflux pump. Significantly reduced concentrations of various 
therapeutic drugs such as digoxin, theophylline, cyclosporine, tacrolimus, 
tricyclic antidepressants, warfarin, and protease inhibitors can be observed due 
to interaction of these drugs with St. John's wort, causing treatment failure. 
On the other hand, a few drugs such as carbamazepine, mycophenolic acid, and 
procainamide do not show any interaction with St. John's wort. Understanding the 
effect of herbal products on TDM methodologies and identification of 
interactions between herbal products and drugs by TDM are very important 
clinically.

DOI: 10.1097/FTD.0b013e31816b918f
PMID: 18367983 [Indexed for MEDLINE]