[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Propulsion Mechanics | Topic: Soyuz TMA | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Soyuz TMA — Overview

the baseline Soyuz-TMA. Thirty-six obsolete pieces of equipment have been replaced with 19 new-generation devices and the vehicle's total mass has been reduced by 70 kilograms (154 lbs). In particular, the reliable but heavy (70 kg) digital computer and analogue systems, which had been used on Soyuz ships for more than 30 years, has been replaced with a new digital computer, the , and digital avionics. Power consumption has been reduced throughout the ship. There are also changes to the spacecraft's structure, such as replacing the magnesium alloy used in the instrument module frame with aluminium alloy, to make the ship easier to manufacture. The modernized Soyuz will also enable engineers to test new equipment which may also be used in Russia's next generation crewed space ship that is currently under development. NASA astronaut Scott Kelly, part of Soyuz TMA-01M's crew, praised the ship's new displays, saying that they make flying easier and less operator intensive. Two flight development flights were launched: Soyuz TMA-01M on Oct 7, 2010 and Soyuz TMA-02M on Jun 7, 2011. The third ship, Soyuz TMA-03M, launched on 21 December 2011 and was used for qualification tests. In addition to verifying the nominal operation of the spaceship, the testing included verification of off-nominal modes, such as manual attitude control, issuing of orbital maneuvering pulses using four berthing and attitude thrusters, and flying around the ISS in manual control mode. The TMA-M variant flew 20 missions at a cadence of four times a year before being replaced in 2016 by the Soyuz MS. For the launch schedule, see List of Russian human spaceflight missions. References

External links 

 Mir Hardware Heritage
 David S.F. Portree, Mir Hardware Heritage, NASA RP-1357, 1995
 Mir Hardware Heritage (wikisource)

 OMWorld's ASTP Docking Trainer Page
 NASA – Russian Soyuz TMA Spacecraft Details
 Space Adventures circum-lunar mission – details
 www.russianspaceweb.com – The Soyuz spacecraft

Crewed spacecraft
Soyuz program
Vehicles introduced in 2002