[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: Culpeper's Complete Herbal — Nicholas Culpeper | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Culpeper's Complete Herbal — Nicholas Culpeper — Overview

everything was placed to suit him he ventured out, for now that he no longer feared Farmer Brown's boy he wanted to see all that was going on. He liked to jump up on the bench where Farmer Brown's boy sometimes sat. He would climb up to where Farmer Brown's boy's coat hung and explore the pockets of it. Once he stole Farmer Brown's boy's handkerchief. He wanted it to add to the
material his nest was made of. Farmer Brown's boy discovered it just as
it was disappearing, and how he laughed as he pulled it away. So, what with eating and sleeping and playing about, secure in the
feeling that no harm could come to him, Whitefoot was happier than ever
before in his little life. He knew that Farmer Brown's boy and Farmer
Brown and Bowser the Hound were his friends. He knew, too, that so long
as they were about, none of his enemies would dare come near. This being
so, of course there was nothing to be afraid of. No harm could possibly
come to him. At least, that is what Whitefoot thought. But you know, enemies are not the only dangers to watch out for. Accidents will happen. When they do happen, it is very likely to be when
the possibility of them is farthest from your thoughts. Almost always
they are due to heedlessness or carelessness. It was heedlessness that
got Whitefoot into one of the worst mishaps of his whole life. He had been running and jumping all around the inside of the little
sugar-house. He loves to run and jump, and he had been having just the
best time ever. Finally Whitefoot ran along the old bench and jumped
from the end of it for a box standing on end, which Farmer Brown's
boy sometimes used to sit on. It wasn't a very long jump, but somehow
Whitefoot misjudged it. He was heedless, and he didn't jump quite far
enough. Right beside that box was a tin pail half filled with sap. Instead of landing on the box, Whitefoot landed with a splash in that
pail of sap. CHAPTER VII: Whitefoot Gives Up Hope

Whitefoot had been in many tight places. Yes, indeed, Whitefoot had been
in many tight places. He had had narrow escapes of all kinds. But never
had he felt so utterly hopeless as now. The moment he landed in that
sap, Whitefoot began to swim frantically. He isn't a particularly good
swimmer, but he could swim well enough to keep afloat for a while. His
first thought was to scramble up the side of the tin pail, but when he
reached it and tried to fasten his sharp little claws into it in order
to climb, he discovered that he couldn't. Sharp as they were, his little
claws just slipped, and his struggles to get up only resulted in tiring
him out and in plunging him wholly beneath the sap. He came up choking
and gasping. Then round and round inside that pail he paddled, stopping
every two or three seconds to try to climb up that hateful, smooth,
shiny wall. The more he tried to climb out, the more frightened he became. He was in a perfect panic of fear. He quite lost his head, did
Whitefoot. The harder he struggled, the more tired he became, and the
greater was his danger of drowning. Whitefoot squeaked pitifully. He didn't want to drown. Of course not. He
wanted to live. But unless he could get out of that pail very soon, he
would drown. He knew it. He knew that he couldn't hold on much longer. He knew that just as soon as he stopped paddling, he would sink. Already
he was so tired from his frantic efforts to escape that it seemed to
him that he couldn't hold out any longer. But somehow he kept his legs
moving, and so kept afloat. Just why he kept struggling, Whitefoot couldn't have told. It wasn't
because he had any hope. He didn't have the least bit of hope. He knew
now that he couldn't climb the sides of that pail, and there was no
other way of getting out. Still he kept on paddling. It was the only way
to keep from drowning, and though he felt sure that he had got to drown
at last, he just wouldn't until he actually had to. And all the time
Whitefoot squeaked hopelessly, despairingly, pitifully. He did it
without knowing that he did it, just as he kept paddling round and
round. CHAPTER VIII: The Rescue

When Whitefoot made the heedless jump that landed him in a pail half
filled with sap, no one else was in the little sugar-house. Whitefoot
was quite alone. You see, Farmer Brown and Farmer Brown's boy were out
collecting sap from the trees, and Bowser the Hound was with them. Farmer Brown's boy was the first to return. He came in just after
Whitefoot had given up all hope. He went at once to the fire to put
more wood on. As he finished this job he heard the faintest of little
squeaks. It was a very pitiful little squeak. Farmer Brown's boy stood
perfectly still and listened. He heard it again. He knew right away that
it was the voice of Whitefoot. “Hello!” exclaimed Farmer Brown's boy. “That sounds as if Whitefoot is
in trouble of some kind. I wonder where the little rascal is. I wonder
what can have happened to him. I must look into this.” Again Farmer
Brown's boy heard that faint little squeak.