[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: nanoparticle drug delivery tumor targeting cancer | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: nanoparticle drug delivery tumor targeting cancer]

54. Nanomedicine (Lond). 2026 Apr;21(7):1027-1048. doi: 
10.1080/17435889.2026.2637591. Epub 2026 Mar 3.

Nanotechnology based targeted drug delivery systems for breast cancer: 
challenges, recent advancement and future perspectives.

Kumar S(1)(2), Rathaur S(1), Maity D(1)(2), Varshney P(1)(2), Gayen JR(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Pharmaceutics and Pharmacokinetics, CSIR-Central Drug Research 
Institute, Lucknow, India.
(2)Academy of Scientific and Innovative Research (AcSIR), Ghaziabad, India.

Globally, breast cancer remains a leading causes of cancer-related mortality 
among women, emphasizing the need for more effective therapies. 
Nanotechnology-based drug delivery systems have emerged as promising tools for 
reducing systemic toxicity while enhancing the precision and efficacy of 
treatments. By engineering nanoparticles to selectively target tumor cells, 
these systems increase drug accumulation at the tumor site and minimize harm to 
healthy tissues. This review focuses on the development of nanocarrier systems 
such as liposomes, polymeric nanoparticles, dendrimers, micelles, metallic 
nanoparticles, black phosphorus, and protein-based nanoparticles for the 
targeted delivery of chemotherapeutic agents in breast cancer. Both passive and 
active targeting mechanisms were explored, including the enhanced permeability 
and retention (EPR) effect, tumor specific biomarkers to achieve 
stimuli-responsive drug release. Future directions in research aim to further 
optimize these nanocarriers to enhance therapeutic efficacy while minimizing 
toxicity. The integration of personalized medicine with smart nanocarriers, 
AI-assisted delivery systems, diagnostic tools, and CRISPR/Cas9 gene editing 
holds great promise for more precise and individualized breast cancer therapies. 
Despite significant progress, challenges such as regulatory hurdles, tumor 
heterogeneity, multidrug resistance, issues related to nanoparticle 
biocompatibility continue to impede clinical translation. This work also 
addresses these barriers and implementation of nanomedicine in clinical 
oncology.

DOI: 10.1080/17435889.2026.2637591
PMCID: PMC13048610
PMID: 41773625 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no relevant affiliations or 
financial involvement with any organization or entity with a financial interest 
in or financial conflict with the subject matter or materials discussed in the 
manuscript. This includes employment, consultancies, honoraria, stock ownership 
or options, expert testimony, grants or patents received or pending, or 
royalties. No writing assistance was utilized in the production of this 
manuscript.