[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: plant alkaloid biosynthesis pathway elucidation | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: plant alkaloid biosynthesis pathway elucidation]

98. Yakugaku Zasshi. 2017;137(12):1443-1482. doi: 10.1248/yakushi.17-00147.

[Diversity of Secondary Metabolites from Some Medicinal Plants and Cultivated 
Lichen Mycobionts].

[Article in Japanese]

Tanahashi T(1).

Author information:
(1)Kobe Pharmaceutical University.

 Studies on the structural determination, biosynthesis, and biological 
activities of secondary metabolites from natural sources are significant in the 
field of natural products chemistry. This review focuses on diverse secondary 
metabolites isolated from medicinal plants and cultivated mycobionts of lichens 
in our laboratory. Monoterpene-tetrahydroisoquinoline glycosides and alkaloids 
isolated from Cephaelis acuminata and Alangium lamarckii gave important 
information on the biosynthesis of ipecac alkaloids. A variety of glycosides 
linked with a secologanin unit and indole alkaloids were obtained from medicinal 
plants belonging to the families of Rubiaceae, Apocynaceae, and Loganiaceae. 
Plant species of the four genera Fraxinus, Syringa, Jasminum, and Ligustrum of 
the family Oleaceae were chemically investigated to provide several types of 
secoiridoid and iridoid glucosides. The biosynthetic pathway leading from 
protopine to benzophenanthridine alkaloids in suspension cell cultures of 
Eschscholtzia californica was elucidated. The structures and biological 
activities of the bisbenzylisoquinoline alkaloids of Stephania cepharantha and 
Nelumbo nucifera were also investigated. In addition, the mycobionts of lichens 
were cultivated to afford various types of metabolites that differ from the 
lichen substances of intact lichens but are structurally similar to fungal 
metabolites. The biosynthetic origins of some metabolites were also studied. 
These findings suggest that cultures of lichen mycobionts could be sources of 
new bioactive compounds and good systems for investigating secondary metabolism 
in lichens.

DOI: 10.1248/yakushi.17-00147
PMID: 29199255 [Indexed for MEDLINE]