[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS neurology | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS neurology]

40. Brain Stimul. 2022 Mar-Apr;15(2):523-531. doi: 10.1016/j.brs.2022.01.016.
Epub  2022 Feb 14.

Closed-loop optimization of transcranial magnetic stimulation with 
electroencephalography feedback.

Tervo AE(1), Nieminen JO(2), Lioumis P(3), Metsomaa J(4), Souza VH(5), Sinisalo 
H(5), Stenroos M(6), Sarvas J(6), Ilmoniemi RJ(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neuroscience and Biomedical Engineering, Aalto University 
School of Science, Espoo, Finland; BioMag Laboratory, HUS Medical Imaging 
Center, University of Helsinki and Helsinki University Hospital, Helsinki, 
Finland; AMI Centre, Aalto NeuroImaging, Aalto University School of Science, 
Espoo, Finland.
(2)Department of Neuroscience and Biomedical Engineering, Aalto University 
School of Science, Espoo, Finland; BioMag Laboratory, HUS Medical Imaging 
Center, University of Helsinki and Helsinki University Hospital, Helsinki, 
Finland. Electronic address: jaakko.nieminen@aalto.fi.
(3)Department of Neuroscience and Biomedical Engineering, Aalto University 
School of Science, Espoo, Finland; BioMag Laboratory, HUS Medical Imaging 
Center, University of Helsinki and Helsinki University Hospital, Helsinki, 
Finland; Cognitive Brain Research Unit, Department of Psychology and Logopedics, 
Faculty of Medicine, University of Helsinki, Helsinki, Finland.
(4)Department of Neuroscience and Biomedical Engineering, Aalto University 
School of Science, Espoo, Finland; Department of Neurology & Stroke and Hertie 
Institute for Clinical Brain Research, University of Tübingen, Tübingen, 
Germany.
(5)Department of Neuroscience and Biomedical Engineering, Aalto University 
School of Science, Espoo, Finland; BioMag Laboratory, HUS Medical Imaging 
Center, University of Helsinki and Helsinki University Hospital, Helsinki, 
Finland.
(6)Department of Neuroscience and Biomedical Engineering, Aalto University 
School of Science, Espoo, Finland.

BACKGROUND: Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) is widely used in brain 
research and treatment of various brain dysfunctions. However, the optimal way 
to target stimulation and administer TMS therapies, for example, where and in 
which electric field direction the stimuli should be given, is yet to be 
determined.
OBJECTIVE: To develop an automated closed-loop system for adjusting TMS 
parameters (in this work, the stimulus orientation) online based on TMS-evoked 
brain activity measured with electroencephalography (EEG).
METHODS: We developed an automated closed-loop TMS-EEG set-up. In this set-up, 
the stimulus parameters are electronically adjusted with multi-locus TMS. As a 
proof of concept, we developed an algorithm that automatically optimizes the 
stimulation orientation based on single-trial EEG responses. We applied the 
algorithm to determine the electric field orientation that maximizes the 
amplitude of the TMS-EEG responses. The validation of the algorithm was 
performed with six healthy volunteers, repeating the search twenty times for 
each subject.
RESULTS: The validation demonstrated that the closed-loop control worked as 
desired despite the large variation in the single-trial EEG responses. We were 
often able to get close to the orientation that maximizes the EEG amplitude with 
only a few tens of pulses.
CONCLUSION: Optimizing stimulation with EEG feedback in a closed-loop manner is 
feasible and enables effective coupling to brain activity.

Copyright © 2022 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.brs.2022.01.016
PMCID: PMC8940636
PMID: 35337598 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare the following financial interests/personal relationships which may be 
considered as potential competing interests: P.L. has received consulting fees 
(unrelated to this work) from Nexstim Plc. R.J.I. is an advisor and a minority 
shareholder of Nexstim Plc. The other authors declare no competing interests.