[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: herbal medicine drug interaction pharmacokinetics | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: herbal medicine drug interaction pharmacokinetics]

13. Acta Pharmacol Sin. 2022 Dec;43(12):3080-3095. doi:
10.1038/s41401-022-00983-7.  Epub 2022 Sep 16.

Multi-compound and drug-combination pharmacokinetic research on Chinese herbal 
medicines.

Li C(1), Jia WW(2), Yang JL(2), Cheng C(2), Olaleye OE(2).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Drug Research, Shanghai Institute of Materia Medica, 
Chinese Academy of Sciences, Shanghai, 201203, China. chli@simm.ac.cn.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Drug Research, Shanghai Institute of Materia Medica, 
Chinese Academy of Sciences, Shanghai, 201203, China.

Traditional medicine has provided a basis for health care and disease treatment 
to Chinese people for millennia, and herbal medicines are regulated as drug 
products in China. Chinese herbal medicines have two features. They normally 
possess very complex chemical composition. This makes the identification of the 
constituents that are together responsible for the therapeutic action of an 
herbal medicine challenging, because how to select compounds from an herbal 
medicine for pharmacodynamic study has been a big hurdle in such identification 
efforts. To this end, a multi-compound pharmacokinetic approach was established 
to identify potentially important compounds (bioavailable at the action loci 
with significant exposure levels after dosing an herbal medicine) and to 
characterize their pharmacokinetics and disposition. Another feature of Chinese 
herbal medicines is their typical use as or in combination therapies. 
Coadministration of complex natural products and conventional synthetic drugs is 
prevalent worldwide, even though it remains very controversial. Natural 
product-drug interactions have raised wide concerns about reduced drug efficacy 
or safety. However, growing evidence shows that incorporating Chinese herbal 
medicines into synthetic drug-based therapies delivers benefits in the treatment 
of many multifactorial diseases. To address this issue, a drug-combination 
pharmacokinetic approach was established to assess drug-drug interaction 
potential of herbal medicines and degree of pharmacokinetic compatibility for 
multi-herb combination and herbal medicine-synthetic drug combination therapies. 
In this review we describe the methodology, techniques, requirements, and 
applications of multi-compound and drug-combination pharmacokinetic research on 
Chinese herbal medicines and to discuss further development for these two types 
of pharmacokinetic research.

© 2022. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Shanghai Institute of Materia 
Medica, Chinese Academy of Sciences and Chinese Pharmacological Society.

DOI: 10.1038/s41401-022-00983-7
PMCID: PMC9483253
PMID: 36114271 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.