[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: phytotherapy systematic review clinical evidence | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: phytotherapy systematic review clinical evidence]

24. Phytother Res. 2018 Jan;32(1):3-18. doi: 10.1002/ptr.5940. Epub 2017 Nov 23.

GABA-modulating phytomedicines for anxiety: A systematic review of preclinical 
and clinical evidence.

Savage K(1)(2), Firth J(3)(4), Stough C(2), Sarris J(1)(4).

Author information:
(1)ARCADIA Mental Health Research Group, Professorial Unit, The Melbourne 
Clinic, Department of Psychiatry, The University of Melbourne, 2 Salisbury 
Street, Richmond, Victoria, 3121, Australia.
(2)Centre for Human Psychopharmacology, Swinburne University of Technology, John 
St, Hawthorn, Victoria, 3122, Australia.
(3)Division of Psychology and Mental Health, University of Manchester, Oxford 
Rd, Manchester, M13 9PL, UK.
(4)NICM, School of Science and Health, Western Sydney University, Sydney, NSW, 
Australia.

Anxiety disorders are chronic and functionally disabling conditions with high 
psychological stress, characterised by cognitive symptoms of excessive worry and 
focus difficulties and physiological symptoms such as muscle tension and 
insomnia. Gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) is an inhibitory neurotransmitter 
within the central nervous system and is a key target of pharmacotherapies in 
the treatment of anxiety. Although current pharmaceutical treatments are often 
efficacious, they may cause undesirable side effects including cognitive 
decrements and withdrawal symptoms. Plant-based "phytomedicines" may provide 
novel treatment options, to act as an adjunctive or alternative to existing 
anxiolytic medications. As such, we conducted a systematic review to assess the 
current body of literature on anxiolytic phytomedicines and/or 
phytoconstituents. An open-ended search to 5 July 2017 was conducted using 
MEDLINE (PubMed), Scopus, and Cochrane library online databases and performed in 
a stepped format from preclinical to clinical investigations. Eligible studies 
must have had (a) in vitro evidence of GABA-modulating activity, (b) animal 
studies using anxiety models to test an anxiolytic effect, and (c) human 
clinical trials. Ten phytomedicines were identified as having preclinical 
investigations showing interaction with the GABA system, in addition to human 
clinical trials: kava, valerian, pennywort, hops, chamomile, Ginkgo biloba, 
passionflower, ashwagandha, skullcap, and lemon balm. Collectively, the 
literature reveals preclinical and clinical evidence for various phytomedicines 
modulating GABA-pathways, with comparative anxiolytic effect to the current 
array of pharmaceuticals, along with good safety and tolerability profiles.

Copyright © 2017 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/ptr.5940
PMID: 29168225 [Indexed for MEDLINE]