[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: graphene biomedical applications toxicity review | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: graphene biomedical applications toxicity review]

83. Nanomedicine. 2016 Feb;12(2):333-51. doi: 10.1016/j.nano.2015.11.011. Epub
2015  Dec 17.

Biological interactions of carbon-based nanomaterials: From coronation to 
degradation.

Bhattacharya K(1), Mukherjee SP(1), Gallud A(1), Burkert SC(2), Bistarelli S(3), 
Bellucci S(3), Bottini M(4), Star A(2), Fadeel B(5).

Author information:
(1)Division of Molecular Toxicology, Institute of Environmental Medicine, 
Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden.
(2)Department of Chemistry, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA, USA.
(3)National Institute of Nuclear Physics-INFN, Frascati, Province of Rome, 
Italy.
(4)Department of Experimental Medicine and Surgery, University of Rome 'Tor 
Vergata', Rome, Italy; Sanford Burnham Prebys Medical Discovery Institute, La 
Jolla, CA, United States.
(5)Division of Molecular Toxicology, Institute of Environmental Medicine, 
Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden. Electronic address: 
bengt.fadeel@ki.se.

Carbon-based nanomaterials including carbon nanotubes, graphene oxide, 
fullerenes and nanodiamonds are potential candidates for various applications in 
medicine such as drug delivery and imaging. However, the successful translation 
of nanomaterials for biomedical applications is predicated on a detailed 
understanding of the biological interactions of these materials. Indeed, the 
potential impact of the so-called bio-corona of proteins, lipids, and other 
biomolecules on the fate of nanomaterials in the body should not be ignored. 
Enzymatic degradation of carbon-based nanomaterials by immune-competent cells 
serves as a special case of bio-corona interactions with important implications 
for the medical use of such nanomaterials. In the present review, we highlight 
emerging biomedical applications of carbon-based nanomaterials. We also discuss 
recent studies on nanomaterial 'coronation' and how this impacts on 
biodistribution and targeting along with studies on the enzymatic degradation of 
carbon-based nanomaterials, and the role of surface modification of 
nanomaterials for these biological interactions.
FROM THE CLINICAL EDITOR: Advances in technology have produced many carbon-based 
nanomaterials. These are increasingly being investigated for the use in 
diagnostics and therapeutics. Nonetheless, there remains a knowledge gap in 
terms of the understanding of the biological interactions of these materials. In 
this paper, the authors provided a comprehensive review on the recent biomedical 
applications and the interactions of various carbon-based nanomaterials.

Copyright © 2015 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.nano.2015.11.011
PMCID: PMC4789123
PMID: 26707820 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest: The authors declare no 
conflicts of interest.