[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: crystal structure protein drug target binding | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: crystal structure protein drug target binding]

12. mBio. 2019 Oct 29;10(5):e02483-19. doi: 10.1128/mBio.02483-19.

Crystal Structure of African Swine Fever Virus dUTPase Reveals a Potential Drug 
Target.

Li C(1)(2), Chai Y(2), Song H(3), Weng C(4), Qi J(2)(5), Sun Y(6), Gao 
GF(7)(2)(3)(5)(8).

Author information:
(1)College of Veterinary Medicine, China Agricultural University, Beijing, 
China.
(2)CAS Key Laboratory of Pathogenic Microbiology and Immunology, Institute of 
Microbiology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, China.
(3)Research Network of Immunity and Health (RNIH), Beijing Institutes of Life 
Science, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, China.
(4)State Key Laboratory of Veterinary Biotechnology, Harbin Veterinary Research 
Institute, Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Harbin, China.
(5)Savaid Medical School, University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, 
China.
(6)CAS Key Laboratory of Pathogenic Microbiology and Immunology, Institute of 
Microbiology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, China sunyeping@im.ac.cn 
gaof@im.ac.cn.
(7)College of Veterinary Medicine, China Agricultural University, Beijing, China 
sunyeping@im.ac.cn gaof@im.ac.cn.
(8)National Institute for Viral Disease Control and Prevention, Chinese Center 
for Disease Control and Prevention (China CDC), Beijing, China.

E165R, a highly specific dUTP nucleotidohydrolase (dUTPase) encoded by the 
African swine fever virus (ASFV) genome, is required for productive replication 
of ASFV in swine macrophages. Here, we solved the high-resolution crystal 
structures of E165R in its apo state and in complex with its product dUMP. 
Structural analysis explicitly defined the architecture of the active site of 
the enzyme as well as the interaction between the active site and the dUMP 
ligand. By comparing the ASFV E165R structure with dUTPase structures from other 
species, we found that the active site of E165R is highly similar to those of 
dUTPases from Mycobacterium tuberculosis and Plasmodium falciparum, against 
which small-molecule chemicals have been developed, which could be the potential 
drug or lead compound candidates for ASFV. Our results provide important basis 
for anti-ASFV drug design by targeting E165R.IMPORTANCE African swine fever 
virus (ASFV), an Asfivirus affecting pigs and wild boars with up to 100% case 
fatality rate, is currently rampaging throughout China and some other countries 
in Asia. There is an urgent need to develop therapeutic and preventive reagents 
against the virus. Our crystallographic and biochemical studies reveal that ASFV 
E165R is a member of trimeric dUTP nucleotidohydrolase (dUTPase) family that 
catalyzes the hydrolysis of dUTP into dUMP. Our apo-E165R and E165R-dUMP 
structures reveal the constitutive residues and the configuration of the active 
center of this enzyme in rich detail and give evidence that the active center of 
E165R is very similar to that of dUTPases from Plasmodium falciparum and 
Mycobacterium tuberculosis, which have already been used as targets for 
designing drugs. Therefore, our high-resolution structures of E165R provide 
useful structural information for chemotherapeutic drug design.

Copyright © 2019 Li et al.

DOI: 10.1128/mBio.02483-19
PMCID: PMC6819664
PMID: 31662460 [Indexed for MEDLINE]