[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS neurology | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS neurology]

94. Rinsho Shinkeigaku. 2001 Dec;41(12):1083-6.

[Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) in movement disorders].

[Article in Japanese]

Ugawa Y(1), Hanajima R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Tokyo University School of Medicine.

Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) has been used to study several aspects 
of movement disorders: central motor conduction time (CMCT), electromyographic 
(EMG) silence evoked by TMS, reset of tremor rhythm by TMS, GABAergic inhibitory 
interneuronal function of the motor cortex studied with paired-pulse TMS. In 
this communication, We briefly summarize results of paired-pulse TMS in movement 
disorders.
NORMAL SUBJECTS: A subthreshold conditioning stimulus over the motor cortex 
reduced the size of EMG responses to a succeeding suprathreshold test stimulus 
given to the same motor cortex. This inhibition is considered to be an 
inhibitory effect on the motor cortex because the same conditioning stimulus has 
no influence on H-reflexes or electrical cortical responses. Pharmacological 
effects on this inhibition suggested that it is mediated by GABAergic inhibitory 
systems in the motor cortex.
PATIENTS: The cortical inhibition was reduced in cortical myoclonus, which is 
consistent with the notion that the studied effect is mediated by GABAergic 
systems. The inhibition was disturbed in focal dystonia, whereas normal 
inhibition was elicited in Segawa's disease. Reduced inhibition was seen in 
Parkinson's disease (PD), whereas normal inhibition in essential tremor. Normal 
inhibition was evoked in all patients with chorea. Abnormal inhibition in basal 
ganglia disorders must reflect damaged movement selection in the motor cortex 
secondary to the primary lesion in the basal ganglia. This abnormality occurs in 
some movement disorders and does not occur in the others, which indicates 
different pathomechanisms for involuntary movements. It is conspicuous that 
normal inhibition was evoked in Segawa's disease even though the patients had 
dystonia.

PMID: 12235803 [Indexed for MEDLINE]