[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: cannabis cannabidiol therapeutic epilepsy pain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: cannabis cannabidiol therapeutic epilepsy pain]

25. Med Cannabis Cannabinoids. 2021 May 21;4(1):43-60. doi: 10.1159/000515042. 
eCollection 2021 Jun.

Cannabis, a Miracle Drug with Polyvalent Therapeutic Utility: Preclinical and 
Clinical-Based Evidence.

Verma R(1), Hoda F(1), Arshad M(1), Iqubal A(1), Siddiqui AN(2), Khan MA(1), 
Haque SE(1), Akhtar M(1), Najmi AK(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, School of Pharmaceutical Education and Research, 
Jamia Hamdard, New Delhi, India.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutical Medicine, School of Pharmaceutical Education and 
Research, Jamia Hamdard, New Delhi, India.

Cannabis sativa L. is an annual herbaceous dioecious plant which was first 
cultivated by agricultural human societies in Asia. Over the period of time, 
various parts of the plant like leaf, flower, and seed were used for 
recreational as well as therapeutic purposes. The main chemical components of 
Cannabis sativa are termed as cannabinoids, among them the key psychoactive 
constituent is Δ-9-tetrahydrocannabinol and cannabidiol (CBD) as active 
nonpsychotic constituent. Upon doing extensive literature review, it was found 
that cannabis has been widely studied for a number of disorders. Very recently, 
a pure CBD formulation, named Epidiolex, got a green flag from both United 
States Food and Drug Administration and Drug Enforcement Administration for 2 
rare types of epilepsies. This laid a milestone in medical cannabis research. 
This review intends to give a basic and extensive assessment, from past till 
present, of the ethnological, plant, chemical, pharmacological, and legal 
aspects of C. sativa. Further, this review contemplates the evidence the studies 
obtained of cannabis components on Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, amyotrophic lateral 
sclerosis, multiple sclerosis, emesis, epilepsy, chronic pain, and cancer as a 
cytotoxic agent as well as a palliative therapy. The assessment in this study 
was done by reviewing in extensive details from studies on historical 
importance, ethnopharmacological aspects, and legal grounds of C. sativa from 
extensive literature available on the scientific databases, with a vision for 
elevating further pharmaceutical research to investigate its total potential as 
a therapeutic agent.

Copyright © 2021 by S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000515042
PMCID: PMC8525216
PMID: 34676349

Conflict of interest statement: All authors declare no conflict of interest.