[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: crystal structure protein drug target binding | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: crystal structure protein drug target binding]

69. Protein Sci. 2007 Jun;16(6):1184-92. doi: 10.1110/ps.072757307.

Malonyl-CoA: acyl carrier protein transacylase from Helicobacter pylori: Crystal 
structure and its interaction with acyl carrier protein.

Zhang L(1), Liu W, Xiao J, Hu T, Chen J, Chen K, Jiang H, Shen X.

Author information:
(1)Drug Discovery and Design Center, State Key Laboratory of Drug Research, 
Shanghai Institute of Materia Medica, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Shanghai 
201203, China.

Malonyl-CoA: acyl carrier protein transacylase (MCAT) is a critical enzyme 
responsible for the transfer of the malonyl moiety to holo-acyl carrier protein 
(ACP) forming the malonyl-ACP intermediates in the initiation step of type II 
fatty acid synthesis (FAS II) in bacteria. MCAT has been considered as an 
attractive drug target in the discovery of antibacterial agents. In this study, 
the crystal structure of MCAT from Helicobacter pylori (Hp) at 2.5 angstroms 
resolution is reported, and the interaction of HpMCAT with HpACP is extensively 
investigated by using computational docking, GST-pull-down, and surface plasmon 
resonance (SPR) technology-based assays. The crystal structure results reveal 
that HpMCAT has a compact folding composed of a large subdomain with a similar 
core as in alpha/beta hydrolases, and a similar ferredoxin-like small subdomain 
as in acylphosphatases. The docking result suggests two positively charged areas 
near the entrance of the active site of HpMCAT as the ACP-binding region. 
Binding assay research shows that HpMCAT demonstrates a moderately binding 
ability against HpACP. The solved 3D structure of HpMCAT is expected to supply 
useful information for the structure-based discovery of novel inhibitors against 
MCAT, and the quantitative study of HpMCAT interaction with HpACP is hoped to 
give helpful hints in the understanding of the detailed catalytic mechanisms for 
HpMCAT.

DOI: 10.1110/ps.072757307
PMCID: PMC2206670
PMID: 17525466 [Indexed for MEDLINE]