[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: PMC: laser photodynamic therapy cancer mechanism | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# PMC: laser photodynamic therapy cancer mechanism — Overview

best PDT conditions were in the range of 3.13-6.25 mg/kg ATX-S10(Na) and 200 J/ cm2 laser irradiation at 2-4 h after ATX-S10(Na) injection. Some animals were damaged in the right leg or died of PDT toxicity. This was probably because the laser beam penetrated the tumor and reached the normal tissues in the right leg, and consequently, severe damage to normal tis- sues induced systemic shock. In clinical use for humans,
however, such acute systemic toxicity of PDT is unlikely
to be a problem, because PDT is applied to small superfi-
cial tumors whose size is under 1 cm in diameter. ATX-
S10(Na) by itself is not toxic; the lethal dose of intrave-
nous ATX-S10(Na) is more than 1000 mg/kg in mice
(unpublished data). The combination of 5 mg/kg ATX-S10(Na) and 200 J/
cm2
diode laser irradiation at 3 h after ATX-S10(Na)
injection showed excellent anti-tumor activity in human
xenograft models, and its efficacy was comparable to that
of PDT using 20 mg/kg porfimer sodium and 100 J/cm2
excimer dye laser irradiation. Since the irradiation timing
and laser irradiation wavelength were different in the two
PDT procedures, effective doses of ATX-S10(Na) and
laser irradiation could not be directly compared. However,
the results indicate that PDT using ATX-S10(Na) and the
diode laser is likely to be effective against human tumors
in clinical use, like PDT using porfimer sodium and the
excimer dye laser. The dosage of porfimer sodium used in
this study was much higher than that used clinically in
humans (2 mg/kg). This was because porfimer sodium is
more rapidly eliminated from the body in mice than in
humans. One of the limitations of PDT is tissue penetration by
the laser beam. Okunaka et al. reported that PDT using a
hematoporphyrin derivative and continuous-wave argon
dye laser (630 nm) at irradiation doses of 50 and 200 J/
cm2
could induce tumor necrosis to a depth of 4.1 or 9.4
mm, respectively.15)
Because the wavelength of the diode
laser (670 nm) is longer than that of the argon dye laser,
the diode laser beam can penetrate tissues more deeply
than the argon dye laser beem. Therefore, we speculate
that PDT using ATX-S10(Na) and 200 J/cm2
diode laser
irradiation may induce tumor necrosis to a depth of about
10 mm. Like other photosensitizers, photoexcited ATX-S10(Na)
produces singlet oxygen,10)
which reacts directly with pro-
teins and lipid in cancer cells, and induces cell-death. On
the other hand, histological findings of tumor tissues
treated with PDT using ATX-S10(Na) and the diode laser
revealed that tumor vessels were damaged soon after PDT,
indicating that PDT using ATX-S10(Na) and the diode
laser also has an indirect anti-tumor effect that is induced
by inhibition of nutritional supply to tumor cells. PDT
using porfimer sodium has also been reported to have a
vascular shutdown effect, while PDT using disulfonated
aluminum phthalocyanine shows little vascular damage.16, 17)
Such differences in vascular damage are due to differences
in accumulation of dyes in tumor vessels and in the
plasma concentration of dyes at the time of irradiation. ATX-S10(Na) is known to accumulate in choroidal
neovascularization.2)
Therefore, we speculate that ATX-
S10(Na) is also accumulated in the newly developed
tumor blood vessels. Vascular damage by PDT with por-
fimer sodium begins to be observed 2 h after laser irradia-
tion,16)
while the damage in the case of PDT of ATX-
S10(Na) occurs immediately after laser irradiation. This
result indicates that the vascular shutdown effect plays a
more important role in the anti-tumor effect of PDT using
ATX-S10(Na) than in that of PDT using porfimer sodium. In conclusion, PDT using ATX-S10(Na) and the diode
laser showed an excellent anti-tumor effect on experimen-
tal tumors without severe side-effect under optimal condi-
tions, and its efficacy was comparable with that of PDT
using porfimer sodium and the excimer dye laser against
human tumor xenografts. Therefore, it is expected that this
therapy will be clinically useful for the treatment of
patients with superficial tumors. Moreover, ATX-S10(Na)
appears to be superior to porfimer sodium with respect
to phototoxicity. Finally, since the optimal conditions
obtained from animal models are not necessarily adequate
for clinical treatment of cancer, a comparative pharmaco-
kinetics study between experimental animal and human is
needed to identify the optimal conditions for clinical use. ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
We wish to express our appreciation to Professor T. Irimura at
the University of Tokyo for his review of the manuscript. (Received February 17, 2000/Revised April 14, 2000/Accepted
April 18, 2000)
PDT Using ATX-S10(Na) and Diode Laser
759
REFERENCES
1) Dougherty, T. J., Gomer, C. J., Henderson, B. W., Jori, G.,
Kessel, D., Korbelik, M., Moan, J. and Peng, Q. Photody-
namic therapy. J. Natl. Cancer Inst., 90, 889-905 (1998). 2) Obana, A., Gohto, Y., Kaneda, K., Nakajima, S., Takemura,
T. and Miki, T. Selective occlusion of choroidal neovascu-
larization by photodynamic therapy with a water-soluble
photosensitizer, ATX-S10.