[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: Herbals: Their Origin and Evolution — Arber | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Herbals: Their Origin and Evolution — Arber — Overview

down with her. Not a moment was to be lost, and he offered to go back to his own vessel to bring off prisoners, pledging his honour to return when the object was accomplished. After picking up several men struggling in the water, he steered directly for the Deerhound, and on reaching her actually cast his boat adrift. It was subsequently picked up by the Kearsarge. Fullam's name appears amongst the
list of "saved" by the Deerhound; and he, with others of the Alabama's
officers who had received a similar permission from their captors, and had
similarly broken their troth, of course gave the above information to
their veracious Captain. The chain-plating of the Kearsarge was decided upon in this wise. The
vessel lay off Fayal towards the latter part of April, 1863, on the look
out for a notorious blockade-runner, named the "Juno." The Kearsarge being
short of coal, and, fearing some attempts at opposition on the part of her
prey, the first officer of the sloop, Lieutenant-commander James S. Thornton, suggested to Captain Winslow the advisability of hanging her two
sheet-anchor cables over her sides, so as to protect her midship section. Mr. Thornton had served on board the flag-ship of Admiral Farragut, the
"Hartford" when she and the rest of the Federal fleet ran the forts of the
Mississippi to reach New Orleans; and he made the suggestion at Fayal
through having seen the advantage gained by it on that occasion. I now
copy the following extract from the log-book of the Kearsarge:

    "HORTA BAY, FAYAL (_May 1st, 1863._)

    "_From 8 to Merid._ Wind E.N.E. (F 2). Weather b. c. Strapped, loaded,
    and fused (5 sec. fuse) 13 XI-inch shell. Commenced armour plating
    ship, using sheet chain. Weighed kedge anchor. "(Signed) E. M. STODDARD, _Acting Master_."

This operation of chain-armouring took three days, and was effected
without assistance from the shore and at an expense of material of
seventy-five dollars (£15). In order to make the addition less unsightly,
the chains were boxed over with 3/4-inch deal boards, forming a case, or
box, which stood out at right angles from the vessel's sides. This box
would naturally excite curiosity in every port where the Kearsarge
touched, and no mystery was made as to what the boarding covered. Captain
Semmes was perfectly cognizant of the entire affair, notwithstanding his
shameless assertion of ignorance; for he spoke about it to his officers
and crew several days prior to the 19th of June, declaring that the chains
were only attached together with rope-yarns, and would drop into the water
when struck with the first shot. I was so informed by his own wounded men
lying in the naval hospital at Cherbourg. Whatever might be the value for
defence of this chain-plating, it was only struck once during the
engagement, so far as I could discover by a long and close inspection. Some of the officers of the Kearsarge asserted to me that it was struck
twice, whilst others deny that declaration: in one spot, however, a
32-pounder shot broke in the deal covering and smashed a single link,
two-thirds of which fell into the water. The remainder is in my
possession, and proves to be of the ordinary 5-1/4-inch chain. Had the
cable been struck by the rifled 120-pounder instead of by a 32, the result
might have been different; but in any case the damage would have amounted
to nothing serious, for the vessel's side was hit five feet above the
water-line and nowhere in the vicinity of the boilers or machinery. Captain Semmes evidently regarded this protection of the chains as little
worth, for he might have adopted the same plan before engaging the
Kearsarge; but he confined himself to taking on board 150 tons of coal _as
a protection to his boilers_, which, in addition to the 200 tons already
in his bunkers, would bring him pretty low in the water. The Kearsarge, on
the contrary, was deficient in her coal, and she took what was necessary
on board during my stay at Cherbourg. The quantity of chain used on each side of the vessel in this
much-talked-of armouring is only 120 fathoms, and it covers a space
amidships of 49 ft. 6 in. in length, by 6 ft. 2 in. in depth.[3] The
chain, which is single, not double, was and is stopped to eye-bolts with
rope-yarn and by iron dogs.[4] Is it reasonable to suppose that this
plating of 1-7/10-inch iron (the thickness of the links of the chain)
could offer any serious resistance to the heavy 68-pounder and the 7 in. Blakely rifle of the Alabama--at the comparatively close range of 700
yards? What then becomes of the mistaken remark of the _Times_ that the
Kearsarge was "provided, as it turned out, with some special contrivances
for protection," or Semmes' declaration that she was "iron-clad?" "The
Career of the Alabama," in referring to this chain-plating, says--"Another
advantage accruing from this was that it sank her very low in the water,
so low in fact, that the heads of the men who were in the boats were on
the level of the Kearsarge's deck." It is simply ridiculous to suppose
that the weight of 240 fathoms of chain could have any such effect upon a
vessel of one thousand tons burden; whilst, in addition, the cable itself
was part of the ordinary equipment of the ship.