[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS neurology | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS neurology]

80. Handb Clin Neurol. 2013;116:387-97. doi: 10.1016/B978-0-444-53497-2.00032-2.

Pharmaco-transcranial magnetic stimulation studies of motor excitability.

Ziemann U(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology and Stroke, Hertie Institute for Clinical Brain 
Research, Eberhard-Karls University Tübingen, Tübingen, Germany. Electronic 
address: ulf.ziemann@uni-tuebingen.de.

Application of a single dose of a central nervous system (CNS) active drug with 
a defined single mode of action has been proven useful to explore and 
characterize the pharmacophysiological properties of transcranial magnetic 
stimulation (TMS) measures of motor cortical and corticospinal excitability in 
humans. With this pharmaco-TMS approach, it was demonstrated that different TMS 
measures reflect axon excitability (motor threshold), or inhibitory (cortical 
silent period, short-interval intracortical inhibition, long-interval 
intracortical inhibition, short-latency afferent inhibition) or excitatory 
synaptic excitability (motor evoked potential amplitude, intracortical 
facilitation, short-interval intracortical facilitation) of distinct neuronal 
elements in the CNS. Pharmaco-TMS has opened an exciting window into human 
cortical physiology. The array of pharmacophysiologically well defined TMS 
measures is now used by neurologists, psychiatrists, and clinical 
neurophysiologists for diagnosis or treatment monitoring in neuropsychiatric 
disease. This chapter reviews systematically the TMS measures of motor cortical 
and corticospinal excitability from the perspective of pharmacophysiological 
characterization. For example, it is demonstrated that blockers of voltage-gated 
sodium channels specifically increase motor threshold but do not alter other TMS 
measures of excitability, whereas positive modulators at γ-butyric acid (GABA) 
type A receptors, such as benzodiazepines, enhance short-interval intracortical 
inhibition and depress motor evoked potential amplitude but have no effect on 
motor threshold.

© 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/B978-0-444-53497-2.00032-2
PMID: 24112911 [Indexed for MEDLINE]