[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: Inhomogeneous electromagnetic wave equation | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Inhomogeneous electromagnetic wave equation — Overview

represent a superposition of spherical waves travelling from the future into the present. See also Wave equation Sinusoidal plane-wave solutions of the electromagnetic wave equation Larmor formula Covariant formulation of classical electromagnetism Maxwell's equations in curved spacetime Abraham–Lorentz force Green's function References Electromagnetics Journal articles James Clerk Maxwell, "A Dynamical Theory of the Electromagnetic Field", Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society of London 155, 459-512 (1865). (This article accompanied a December 8, 1864 presentation by Maxwell to the Royal Society.)

Undergraduate-level textbooks

 Edward M. Purcell, Electricity and Magnetism (McGraw-Hill, New York, 1985). Hermann A. Haus and James R. Melcher, Electromagnetic Fields and Energy (Prentice-Hall, 1989) 
 Banesh Hoffman, Relativity and Its Roots (Freeman, New York, 1983). David H. Staelin, Ann W. Morgenthaler, and Jin Au Kong, Electromagnetic Waves (Prentice-Hall, 1994) 
 Charles F. Stevens, The Six Core Theories of Modern Physics, (MIT Press, 1995) . Graduate-level textbooks

Robert Wald, Advanced Classical Electromagnetism, (2022). Landau, L. D.,  The Classical Theory of Fields (Course of Theoretical Physics: Volume 2),  (Butterworth-Heinemann: Oxford, 1987). Charles W. Misner, Kip S. Thorne, John Archibald Wheeler, Gravitation, (1970) W.H. Freeman, New York; . (Provides a treatment of Maxwell's equations in terms of differential forms.)

Vector Calculus & Further Topics

H. M. Schey, Div Grad Curl and all that:  An informal text on vector calculus, 4th edition (W. W. Norton & Company, 2005) . Arfken et al., Mathematical Methods for Physicists, 6th edition (2005). Chapters 1 & 2 cover vector calculus and tensor calculus respectively. David Tong, Lectures on Vector Calculus. Freely available lecture notes that can be found here: http://www.damtp.cam.ac.uk/user/tong/vc.html

Partial differential equations
Special relativity
Electromagnetism