[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: Theatre Rhinoceros | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Theatre Rhinoceros — Overview

play that Estes died of AIDS), and Richard Gray's Bad Drama. After Estes' death, Baugniet turned the theater over to his staff and retired into private life. Including studio productions and staged readings, he had produced over one hundred titles for the theater company. Baugniet's papers are housed at the GLBT Historical Society in San Francisco and the Bancroft Library at the University of California, Berkeley. 1984–1990
Under the artistic direction of Kristine Gannon (1984–1987), The Rhino continued to realize Estes' vision. Committed to exploring the impact of AIDS on the gay community, The Rhino produced several important new plays, including the collaboratively written The AIDS Show: Artists Involved with Death and Survival and an updated version titled Unfinished Business that was the subject of a PBS documentary by Rob Epstein and Peter Adair, Doug Holsclaw's Life of the Party and The Baddest of Boys, Leland Moss's Quisbies, Robert Pitman's Passing, Anthony Bruno's Soul Survivor, and the Henry Mach–Paul Katz (not to be confused with cellist Paul Katz), musical Dirty Dreams of a Clean-Cut Kid, as well as cult classics like Tom Eyen's Women Behind Bars. Charles Solomon (1987-1988) and Kenneth R. Dixon (1988-1990) expanded The Rhino's boundaries of inclusiveness by staging several African-American productions. 1990–1999
Under the leadership of Artistic Director Adele Prandini (1990–1999), the Rhino forged partnerships with many groups, including Luna Sea, Teatro de la Esperanza, Black Artists Contemporary Cultural Experience, The Asian AIDS Project, and the Latino/a AIDS Festival. It received commendations from the City of Berkeley, the City and County of San Francisco, and the State of California on its fifteenth and twentieth anniversaries. Prandini continued as an artistic force writing and directing Coconut, directing Chay Yew's Porcelain and Beyond Bagdad, a wildly successful musical written by Pamela Forrest and Doug Holsclaw. Holsclaw continued as Rhino's most important male writers, with works including Don't Make Me Say Things that will Hurt You, directed by Sabin Epstein, Out Calls Only, The Plunge, and The Sensational Sin Sisters, directed by Prandini, and The Last Hairdresser, directed by Danny Scheie, which won a Critics Circle Award (tie) for Best New Play. Jumping the Broom, produced in fall 1993, was a collection of sketches around the theme of gay marriage, commitment and domestic partnership. 1999–2003
Doug Holsclaw (1999–2003) presided over the premiere of new works by Marga Gomez, Latin Hustle, Jason Post, John Fisher, F. Allen Sawyer, Marvin White, and Guillermo Reyes. The entire twenty-fifth anniversary season was celebrated with world premiere works by Johari Jabir, Sara Moore, Fisher, Kate Bornstein, and Ronnie Larsen as well as special performances by Kate Clinton and Gomez. 2004–2009
Under the artistic direction of Fisher, Theatre Rhinoceros remained committed to Allan Estes' original vision of developing and producing works of theatre that enlighten, enrich, and explore all aspects of the gay community. 2004 saw the first full American staging of Alan Bennett's Single Spies (two one-acts: "An Englishman Abroad" and "A Question of Attribution"), which was co-directed by John Fisher and Jeffrey Hartgraves. Featuring John Fisher, Jeffrey Hartgraves, Libby O'Connell, Matt Weimer, Greg Lucey, and Dominick Marrone. 2005 featured the holiday production of George S. Kaufman and Moss Hart's classic farce The Man Who Came to Dinner, starring a collection of some of the Bay Area's best-known local actors, including Floriana Alessandria, David Bicha, P. A. Cooley, Matthew Martin, Kim Larsen, Matt Weimer, Libby O'Connell, and Jeffrey Hartgraves. 2006 featured the remounting of the critically acclaimed Family Jewels: the Making of Veronica Klaus by Jeffrey Hartgraves and Veronica Klaus, directed by Jeffrey Hartgraves. This production was subsequently brought back for another run in 2007. 2007 brought innovation and experimentation with the creation of The Studio Project There's Something About Marriage which explored the issues and opinions surrounding the topic of gay marriage. Conceived and created by John Fisher, David Bicha, and Maryssa Wanlass. With cameos by Drew Todd, Jeffrey Hartgraves, and Matthew Martin. This year also saw the first staging of Shark Bites (a very nearly solo show) written by and starring Jeffrey Hartgraves. Directed by Libby O'Connell and featuring Drew Todd, P. A. Cooley, David Bicha, davidmahr, and T.J. Lee. This show was remounted in 2008. 2009–present
In 2009, the rising cost of rent caused Theatre Rhino to vacate the Redstone Building. Subsequent shows have been produced at multiple venues across San Francisco, primarily at the Gateway Theatre (once home of the Eureka Theatre Company) at 215 Jackson Street. As of 2023, they are operating out of 4229 18th, a storefront in the Castro. References

External links
 Theater Rhinoceros
 Theater Rhinoceros - YouTube

Theatre companies in San Francisco
LGBT theatre companies
LGBT theatre in the United States
South of Market, San Francisco
Arts organizations established in 1977
Performing groups established in 1977
1977 establishments in California
Theatre company production histories