[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: cannabis cannabidiol therapeutic epilepsy pain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: cannabis cannabidiol therapeutic epilepsy pain]

81. Expert Rev Clin Pharmacol. 2017 Apr;10(4):443-455. doi: 
10.1080/17512433.2017.1292849. Epub 2017 Feb 28.

Cannabinoids therapeutic use: what is our current understanding following the 
introduction of THC, THC:CBD oromucosal spray and others?

Maccarrone M(1)(2), Maldonado R(3), Casas M(4)(5)(6), Henze T(7), Centonze D(8).

Author information:
(1)a Department of Medicine , Campus Bio-Medico University of Rome , Rome , 
Italy.
(2)b Laboratory of Lipid Neurochemistry, European Center for Brain 
Research/IRCCS Santa Lucia Foundation , Rome , Italy.
(3)c Laboratori de Neurofarmacologia, Departament de Ciències Experimentals i de 
la Salut (CEXS), Facultat de Ciències de la Salut i de la Vida , Universitat 
Pompeu Fabra , Barcelona , Spain.
(4)d Servicio de Psiquiatría , Hospital Universitari Vall d'Hebron , Barcelona , 
Spain.
(5)e Departamento de Psiquiatría y Medicina Legal , Universitat Autònoma de 
Barcelona , Barcelona , Spain.
(6)f CIBERSAM , Barcelona , Spain.
(7)g Passauer Wolf Reha-Zentrum Nittenau , Nittenau , Germany.
(8)h Multiple Sclerosis Clinical and Research Center, Tor Vergata University, 
Rome & Unit of Neurology , IRCCS Istituto Neurologico Mediterraneo Neuromed , 
Pozzilli , Italy.

The complexity of the endocannabinoid (eCB) system is becoming better understood 
and new drivers of eCB signaling are emerging. Modulation of the activities of 
the eCB system can be therapeutic in a number of diseases. Research into the eCB 
system has been paralleled by the development of agents that interact with 
cannabinoid receptors. In this regard it should be remembered that herbal 
cannabis contains a myriad of active ingredients, and the individual 
cannabinoids have quite distinct biological activities requiring independent 
studies. Areas covered: This article reviews the most important current data 
involving the eCB system in relation to human diseases, to reflect the present 
(based mainly on the most used prescription cannabinoid medicine, THC/CBD 
oromucosal spray) and potential future uses of cannabinoid-based therapy. Expert 
commentary: From the different therapeutic possibilities, THC/CBD oromucosal 
spray has been in clinical use for approximately five years in numerous 
countries world-wide for the management of multiple sclerosis (MS)-related 
moderate to severe resistant spasticity. Clinical trials have confirmed its 
efficacy and tolerability. Other diseases in which different cannabinoids are 
currently being investigated include various pain states, Alzheimer's disease, 
Parkinson's disease, Huntington's disease and epilepsy. The continued 
characterization of individual cannabinoids in different diseases remains 
important.

DOI: 10.1080/17512433.2017.1292849
PMID: 28276775 [Indexed for MEDLINE]