[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: Diffusionless transformation | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Diffusionless transformation — Overview

Iron-carbon martensitic transformation The difference between austenite and martensite is minor. While the unit cell of austenite is a perfect cube, the transformation to martensite involves a distortion of this cube into a body-centered tetragonal shape, as interstitial carbon atoms do not have time to diffuse out during the displacive transformation. The unit cell becomes slightly longer in one dimension and shorter in the other two. The mathematical description of the two crystal structures is quite different, for reasons of symmetry, but the chemical bonding remains very similar. Unlike cementite, which has bonding similar to ceramic materials, the hardness of martensite is difficult to explain chemically. The explanation hinges on the crystal's subtle change in dimension. Even a microscopic crystallite is millions of unit cells long. Since all of these units face the same direction, distortions of even a fraction of a percent get magnified into a major mismatch between neighboring materials. The mismatch is sorted out by the creation of myriad crystal defects, in work hardening. Similar to the process in work-hardened steel, these defects prevent atoms from sliding past one another in an organized fashion, causing the material to become harder. Shape memory alloys also have mechanical properties, which were eventually explained by analogy to martensite. Unlike the iron-carbon system, alloys in the nnickel-titanium stem can be chosen that make the "martensitic" phase thermodynamically stable. Pseudo martensitic transformation
In addition to displacive transformation and diffusive transformation, a new type of phase transformation that involves a displacive sublattice transition and atomic diffusion was discovered using a high-pressure X-ray diffraction system. The new transformation mechanism has been christened pseudo martensitic transformation. References

Notes

Bibliography
 Christian, J.W., Theory of Transformations in Metals and Alloys, Pergamon Press (1975)
 Khachaturyan, A.G., Theory of Structural Transformations in Solids, Dover Publications, NY (1983)
 Green, D.J.; Hannink, R.; Swain, M.V. (1989). Transformation Toughening of Ceramics. Boca Raton: CRC Press. . External links
Extensive resources from Cambridge University
The cubic-to-tetragonal transition
European Symposium on Martensitic Transformations (ESOMAT)
PTC Lab for martensite crystallography

Phase transitions