[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: traditional Chinese medicine herbs mechanism actio | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: traditional Chinese medicine herbs mechanism action]

3. Br J Pharmacol. 2017 Jun;174(11):1395-1425. doi: 10.1111/bph.13631. Epub 2016 
Oct 29.

Anti-ageing active ingredients from herbs and nutraceuticals used in traditional 
Chinese medicine: pharmacological mechanisms and implications for drug 
discovery.

Shen CY(1), Jiang JG(1), Yang L(1), Wang DW(2), Zhu W(2).

Author information:
(1)College of Food and Bioengineering, South China University of Technology, 
Guangzhou, China.
(2)The second Affiliated Hospital, Guangzhou University of Chinese Medicine, 
Guangzhou, China.

Ageing, an unanswered question in the medical field, is a multifactorial process 
that results in a progressive functional decline in cells, tissues and 
organisms. Although it is impossible to prevent ageing, slowing down the rate of 
ageing is entirely possible to achieve. Traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) is 
characterized by the nourishing of life and its role in anti-ageing is getting 
more and more attention. This article summarizes the work done on the natural 
products from TCM that are reported to have anti-ageing effects, in the past two 
decades. The effective anti-ageing ingredients identified can be generally 
divided into flavonoids, saponins, polysaccharides, alkaloids and others. 
Astragaloside, Cistanche tubulosa acteoside, icariin, tetrahydrocurcumin, 
quercetin, butein, berberine, catechin, curcumin, epigallocatechin gallate, 
gastrodin, 6-Gingerol, glaucarubinone, ginsenoside Rg1, luteolin, icarisid II, 
naringenin, resveratrol, theaflavin, carnosic acid, catalpol, chrysophanol, 
cycloastragenol, emodin, galangin, echinacoside, ferulic acid, huperzine, 
honokiol, isoliensinine, phycocyanin, proanthocyanidins, rosmarinic acid, 
oxymatrine, piceid, puerarin and salvianolic acid B are specified in this 
review. Simultaneously, chemical structures of the monomers with anti-ageing 
activities are listed, and their source, model, efficacy and mechanism are also 
described. The TCMs with anti-ageing function are classified according to their 
action pathways, including the telomere and telomerase, the sirtuins, the 
mammalian target of rapamycin, AMP-activated kinase and insulin/insulin-like 
growth factor-1 signalling pathway, free radicals scavenging and the resistance 
to DNA damage. Finally, Chinese compound prescription and extracts related to 
anti-ageing are introduced, which provides the basis and the direction for the 
further development of novel and potential drugs.
LINKED ARTICLES: This article is part of a themed section on Principles of 
Pharmacological Research of Nutraceuticals. To view the other articles in this 
section visit http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/bph.v174.11/issuetoc.

© 2016 The British Pharmacological Society.

DOI: 10.1111/bph.13631
PMCID: PMC5429334
PMID: 27659301 [Indexed for MEDLINE]