[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: cannabis cannabidiol therapeutic epilepsy pain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: cannabis cannabidiol therapeutic epilepsy pain]

14. J Cannabis Res. 2023 Jun 13;5(1):21. doi: 10.1186/s42238-023-00186-9.

The therapeutic potential of purified cannabidiol.

O'Sullivan SE(1), Jensen SS(2), Nikolajsen GN(2), Bruun HZ(2), Bhuller R(3), 
Hoeng J(3).

Author information:
(1)CanPharmaConsulting, Nottingham, NG9 3BB, UK. canpharmaconsulting@gmail.com.
(2)Fertin Pharma, Dandyvej 19, Vejle, 7100, Denmark.
(3)Vectura Fertin Pharma, Basel, Switzerland.

The use of cannabidiol (CBD) for therapeutic purposes is receiving considerable 
attention, with speculation that CBD can be useful in a wide range of 
conditions. Only one product, a purified form of plant-derived CBD in solution 
(Epidiolex), is approved for the treatment of seizures in patients with 
Lennox-Gastaut syndrome, Dravet syndrome, or tuberous sclerosis complex. 
Appraisal of the therapeutic evidence base for CBD is complicated by the fact 
that CBD products sometimes have additional phytochemicals (like 
tetrahydrocannabinol (THC)) present, which can make the identification of the 
active pharmaceutical ingredient (API) in positive studies difficult. The aim of 
the present review is to critically review clinical studies using purified CBD 
products only, in order to establish the upcoming indications for which purified 
CBD might be beneficial. The areas in which there is the most clinical evidence 
to support the use of CBD are in the treatment of anxiety (positive data in 7 
uncontrolled studies and 17 randomised controlled trials (RCTs)), psychosis and 
schizophrenia (positive data in 1 uncontrolled study and 8 RCTs), PTSD (positive 
data in 2 uncontrolled studies and 4 RCTs) and substance abuse (positive data in 
2 uncontrolled studies and 3 RCTs). Seven uncontrolled studies support the use 
of CBD to improve sleep quality, but this has only been verified in one small 
RCT. Limited evidence supports the use of CBD for the treatment of Parkinson's 
(3 positive uncontrolled studies and 2 positive RCTs), autism (3 positive RCTs), 
smoking cessation (2 positive RCTs), graft-versus-host disease and intestinal 
permeability (1 positive RCT each). Current RCT evidence does not support the 
use of purified oral CBD in pain (at least as an acute analgesic) or for the 
treatment of COVID symptoms, cancer, Huntington's or type 2 diabetes. In 
conclusion, published clinical evidence does support the use of purified CBD in 
multiple indications beyond epilepsy. However, the evidence base is limited by 
the number of trials only investigating the acute effects of CBD, testing CBD in 
healthy volunteers, or in very small patient numbers. Large confirmatory phase 3 
trials are required in all indications.

© 2023. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s42238-023-00186-9
PMCID: PMC10262148
PMID: 37312194

Conflict of interest statement: Saoirse Elizabeth O’Sullivan is a paid 
consultant to Vectura Fertin Pharma, Switzerland, and a paid employee of Artelo 
Biosceince, USA. Sanne Skov Jensen, Gitte Nykjær Nikolajsen and Heidi Ziegler 
Bruun are paid employees of Fertin Pharma, Denmark. Rhenu Bhuller and Julia 
Hoeng are paid employees of Vectura Fertin Pharma, Switzerland.