[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: ethnobotany traditional medicine biological activi | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: ethnobotany traditional medicine biological activity]

92. Phytother Res. 2018 Sep;32(9):1653-1663. doi: 10.1002/ptr.6101. Epub 2018 May
 10.

Echinacea plants as antioxidant and antibacterial agents: From traditional 
medicine to biotechnological applications.

Sharifi-Rad M(1), Mnayer D(2), Morais-Braga MFB(3), Carneiro JNP(3), Bezerra 
CF(3), Coutinho HDM(3), Salehi B(4)(5), Martorell M(6), Del Mar Contreras M(7), 
Soltani-Nejad A(8), Uribe YAH(9), Yousaf Z(10), Iriti M(11), Sharifi-Rad 
J(12)(13).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Parasitology, Zabol University of Medical Sciences, 
Zabol, Iran.
(2)Department of Agricultural Engineering and Veterinary Medicine, Lebanese 
University, Beirut, Lebanon.
(3)Laboratório de Microbiologia e Biologia Molecular - LMBM, Departamento de 
Química Biológica - DQB, Universidade Regional do Cariri - URCA, Av. Cel. 
Antonio Luiz, 1161. Pimenta, Crato, CE, Brazil.
(4)Medical Ethics and Law Research Center, Shahid Beheshti University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(5)Student Research Committee, Shahid Beheshti University of Medical Sciences, 
Tehran, Iran.
(6)Department of Nutrition and Dietetics, School of Pharmacy, University of 
Concepcion, Concepcion, Chile.
(7)Departamento de Química Analítica, Instituto Universitario de Investigación 
en Química Fina y Nanoquímica IUIQFN, Universidad de Córdoba, Campus de 
Rabanales, Edificio Marie Curie, Córdoba, E-14071, Spain.
(8)Department of Genetics and Biotechnology, Osmania University, Hyderabad, 
India.
(9)Departamento de Farmacia, Facultad de Ciencias, Universidad Nacional de 
Colombia, Bogotá, Colombia.
(10)Department of Botany, Lahore College for Women University, Lahore, Pakistan.
(11)Department of Agricultural and Environmental Sciences, Milan State 
University, Milan, Italy.
(12)Phytochemistry Research Center, Shahid Beheshti University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(13)Department of Chemistry, Richardson College for the Environmental Science 
Complex, The University of Winnipeg, Winnipeg, MB, Canada.

The genus Echinacea consists of 11 taxa of herbaceous and perennial flowering 
plants. In particular, Echinacea purpurea (L.) Moench is widely cultivated all 
over the United States, Canada, and in Europe, exclusively in Germany, for its 
beauty and reported medicinal properties. Echinacea extracts have been used 
traditionally as wound healing to improve the immune system and to treat 
respiratory symptoms caused by bacterial infections. Echinacea extracts have 
demonstrated antioxidant and antimicrobial activities, and to be safe. This 
survey aims at reviewing the medicinal properties of Echinacea species, their 
cultivation, chemical composition, and the potential uses of these plants as 
antioxidant and antibacterial agents in foods and in a clinical context. 
Moreover, the factors affecting the chemical composition of Echinacea spp. are 
also covered.

Copyright © 2018 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/ptr.6101
PMID: 29749084 [Indexed for MEDLINE]