[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: Frederic M. Richards | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Frederic M. Richards — Overview

ready to work. His sailing adventures included several transatlantic voyages. He was also an avid ice hockey player." Richards lived in Guilford, Connecticut, a coastal town about 10 miles east of New Haven, situated between the Metacomet Ridge and Long Island Sound. Fred was married twice, to Heidi Clark Richards, daughter of biochemist Hans Clarke, and in 1959 to Sarah (Sally) Wheatland Richards, a marine biologist. He had three children – Sarah, Ruth, and George – and four grandchildren. His daughter Sarah described him as "a lifelong scientist and sailor.... His main loves were his scientific work which he finished at Yale University, sailing, working in his shop, and helping in the community." Fred and Sally were a major presence in local land conservation efforts, both on committees and in working projects out on the land and water. He donated a 41-acre shoreline property to the Yale Peabody Museum Natural Areas, which they described as "one of the few natural forest areas left in the state." The property now has long-term protection for use in biological and geological research. Research career

Two-component ribonuclease S system
On December 2, 1957, at Yale University, Richards performed a simple experiment on the protein Ribonuclease A (RNase A) that helped change the scientific community's view of the physical nature of protein molecules. Using a particular protease (Subtilisin), RNase A was converted into a split protein (RNase S), which is composed of two parts called S-peptide and S-protein (). Richards had developed that cleavage system as a postdoc at the Carlsberg Laboratory in Copenhagen, Denmark, using purified ribonuclease protein that had been donated to Christian Anfinsen by the Armour Company and that Anfinsen shared with Richards and other researchers. Richards found that, when separated, S-protein and S-peptide had no RNase activity, but that the RNase enzymatic activity was restored when the parts were recombined in the test tube. In an autobiographical piece, Richards wrote that "this discovery came as a surprise to the scientific community at that time.... In retrospect, this may have been the high point of my career in terms of excitement." This experiment showed that proteins maintain 3-dimensional order and tight binding between their interacting parts and that the structural information is inherent in the protein itself, foreshadowing both Anfinsen's later work showing that sequence determines structure and also the idea that hormones or other small molecules can bind tightly and specifically to proteins, a concept basic to how pharmaceutical companies design drugs today. Two years later, the protein structure of myoglobin confirmed such specific 3D relationships. Later, with Marilyn Doscher and Flo Quiocho, Richards demonstrated that ribonuclease S as well as carboxypeptidase were enzymatically active in the crystals, important evidence to silence doubts that the conformations of proteins in crystals are directly relevant to their biological activity in cells. Ribonuclease crystal structure

Along with colleague Harold W. Wyckoff, who had worked on early research toward the myoglobin structure, the effort to solve the RNase S 3-dimensional structure was spearheaded by Richards. Done in 1966 and published in 1967, the analyses of RNase S  and RNase A jointly made ribonuclease the third distinct protein structure to be determined by X-ray diffraction of crystals, after myoglobin/hemoglobin and hen-egg lysozyme, and the first to be done in the United States. Later, the Yale group collected more diffraction data, and in 1970 published the RNase S structure in full detail at 2.0 Å resolution (). Coordinates for ribonuclease S were deposited into the international Protein Data Bank in 1973 as , among the first small set of macromolecular structures. The black-and-white ribbon drawing above shows the large, twisted beta sheet (arrows) of ribonuclease, flanked by several alpha-helices (spirals). The shorter S-peptide piece is behind, starting at upper left with a helix and ending with the chain break (between residues 20-21) at lower right. The active site for RNA cleavage (in the groove at center front in this drawing) involves one histidine side chain from the S-peptide fragment and another from the S-protein part. The computer image shows superimposed structures of ribonuclease S and A, with the S-peptide in gold and the active site histidines in hot pink. The close match of the 3D structures shows that the 2-fragment S system does indeed fold to the active form (). "Richards' box"
In 1968, while on sabbatical with David Phillips at Oxford, Richards developed a large optical comparator device called a "Richards' box" (or "Fred's Folly") which enabled crystallographers to build physical models of protein structures by viewing the stacked sheets of electron density through a half-silvered mirror (see photo). Once the Folly had been constructed, he built an all-atom brass model of RNase S quite rapidly.