[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: Turkey Tayac | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Turkey Tayac — Overview

of his dedication to seeking social justice. Turkey Tayac was a Roman Catholic throughout his life, and was active in the Catholic Veterans of America. Turkey Tayac was interviewed by ethnographers, including T. Dale Stewart, John Harrington, Frank G. Speck, William H. Gilbert, and Lucille St. Hoyme—who studied evidence for Native American survival in regions where it was thought that Native Americans had long since vanished. Turkey Tayac was particularly concerned with Moyaone, also called the Accokeek Creek Site. The archeological site shows indigenous human habitation from about 1300 CE to 1630 CE, including the time of the historic Piscataway. It was designated a National Historic Landmark in 1966 and is located within Piscataway Park, part of the National Park system administered by the National Park Service. Some of the land had been purchased in 1928 by Alice and Henry G. Ferguson from Philip Proctor's mother and her second husband, after his father had died. After Alice died in 1951, Henry established the Alice Ferguson Foundation to protect the environment. In the 1960s, the Foundation made plans to donate much of the property to the National Park Service for protection. It is across the Potomac River from Mt. Vernon. Other property, known as the Hard Bargain Farm, is run by the Alice Ferguson Foundation. Tayac supported the formation in the 1960s of Piscataway National Park. The rise of the American Indian Movement in the 1970s increased interest in Turkey Tayac's attempts to reorganize the tribe. Along with his son Billy Redwing Tayac and Avery Lewis, a Pima supporter, in 1974 Turkey Tayac incorporated a non-profit organization, the "Piscataway-Conoy Indians."

Eventually, the Piscataway-Conoy Indians, Inc. opened the Piscataway Indian Center. They wanted to use it as a place to revitalize American Indian identity for people of Piscataway heritage, and for others of Native American descent in the region. In 1978, Turkey Tayac was diagnosed with leukemia. His family worked with Congressional and Senate representatives to gain permission for Proctor to be buried at the park. Senator Paul Sarbanes attached an amendment to unrelated legislation to achieve this. It was opposed by the Alice Ferguson Foundation, which had donated land for the park. In 1979, Turkey Tayac was buried in the ossuary site at Moyaone. Since 1978, the Piscataway have divided into three organized groups, strong enough to take different directions. On Monday, January 9, 2012, all three groups were granted recognition by the state of Maryland. None has yet been recognized officially by the federal government. References

Feest, Christian. "Nanticokes and Neighboring Tribes", in Handbook of North American Indians, Volume 15, 1978. Maryland Commission on Indian Affairs, Correspondence with R. Christopher Goodwin, August 12, 1999. Maynor, Malinda. Native American Identity in the Segregated South: The Indians of Robeson County, North Carolina, 1872-1956., Doctoral Dissertation, Chapel Hill: University of North Carolina, 2005. Rountree, Helen C. Pocahontas's People: The Powhatan Indians of Virginia through Four Centuries, Norman: University of Oklahoma Press, 1990. Rountree, Helen C., and Thomas E. Davidson. Eastern Shore Indians of Virginia and Maryland. Charlottesville: University of Virginia Press, 1997. Tayac, Gabrielle. "Stolen Spirits," in Contemporary Issues in American Indian Studies, ed. Dane Morrison. Lang Publishers, 1997. __. To Speak with One Voice: Supra-Tribal American Indian Collective Identity Incorporation among the Piscataway, 1500-1998, Doctoral Dissertation. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University, 1999. __. "Keeping the Original Instructions," in Native Universe, ed. Clifford Trafzer and Gerald McMaster. Washington, DC: National Geographic and the National Museum of the American Indian, 2004. __. "We Rise, We Fall, We Rise," in Smithsonian Magazine, September 2004. __. "From the Deep," in New Tribe, New York, ed. Gerald McMaster. Washington, DC: National Museum of the American Indian, 2005. __. Oral & Documented history of the Southern Maryland Outcase, [ Allie Dragoni ] 2003

External links
Piscataway Indian Nation home page
"Piscataway", Catholic Encyclopedia

1895 births
1978 deaths
20th-century Native Americans
American military personnel of World War I
Deaths from leukemia
Herbalists
Native American leaders
Native American United States military personnel
People from Charles County, Maryland
Piscataway people