[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: cannabis cannabidiol therapeutic epilepsy pain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: cannabis cannabidiol therapeutic epilepsy pain]

57. J Pain Res. 2017 May 22;10:1217-1224. doi: 10.2147/JPR.S132814. eCollection 
2017.

Cannabis and intractable chronic pain: an explorative retrospective analysis of 
Italian cohort of 614 patients.

Fanelli G(1)(2), De Carolis G(3), Leonardi C(4), Longobardi A(5)(6), Sarli 
E(7)(8), Allegri M(1)(2), Schatman ME(9).

Author information:
(1)Anesthesia, Critical Care and Pain Medicine Unit, Division of Surgical 
Sciences, Department of Medicine and Surgery, University of Parma.
(2)Anesthesia, Intensive Care and Pain Therapy Service, Azienda Ospedaliero 
Universitaria Parma, Parma.
(3)Pain Therapy Service, Azienda Ospedaliero Universitaria Pisana, Pisa.
(4)Department of Drug Addiction Diseases, Local Public Health of Rome, Rome.
(5)Department of Neurosciences, Reproductive and Odontostomatological Sciences, 
University of Naples "Federico II", Naples.
(6)Young Against the Pain (YAP) Group, Parma.
(7)Progetti Live Surgery.
(8)PinHub Group, Florence, Italy.
(9)Department of Public Health and Community Medicine, Tufts University School 
of Medicine, Boston, MA, USA.

BACKGROUND: Despite growing interest in the therapeutic use of cannabis to 
manage chronic pain, only limited data that address these issues are available. 
In recent years, a number of nations have introduced specific laws to allow 
patients to use cannabis preparations to treat a variety of medical conditions. 
In 2015, the Italian government authorized the use of cannabis to treat several 
diseases, including chronic pain generally, spasticity in multiple sclerosis, 
cachexia and anorexia among AIDS and cancer patients, glaucoma, Tourette 
syndrome, and certain types of epilepsy. We present the first snapshot of the 
Italian experience with cannabis use for chronic pain over the initial year of 
its use.
METHODS: This is a retrospective case series analysis of all chronic pain 
patients treated with oral or vaporized cannabis in six hubs during the initial 
year following the approval of the new Italian law (December 2015 to November 
2016). We evaluated routes of administration, types of cannabis products 
utilized, dosing, and effectiveness and safety of the treatment.
RESULTS: As only one of the six centers has extensively used cannabinoids for 
intractable chronic pain (614 patients of 659), only the population from Azienda 
Ospedaliero Universitaria Pisana (Pisa) was considered. Cannabis tea was the 
primary mode of delivery, and in almost all cases, it was used in association 
with all the other pain treatments. Initial and follow-up cannabinoid 
concentrations were found to vary considerably. At initial follow-up, 76.2% of 
patients continued the treatment, and <15% stopped the treatment due to side 
effects (none of which were severe).
CONCLUSION: We present the first analysis of Italian clinical practice of the 
use of cannabinoids for a large variety of chronic pain syndromes. From this 
initial snapshot, we determined that the treatment seems to be effective and 
safe, although more data and subsequent trials are needed to better investigate 
its ideal clinical indication.

DOI: 10.2147/JPR.S132814
PMCID: PMC5449133
PMID: 28579820

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure The authors report no conflicts of 
interest in this work.