[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: cannabis cannabidiol therapeutic epilepsy pain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: cannabis cannabidiol therapeutic epilepsy pain]

87. Br J Clin Pharmacol. 2026 May;92(5):1287-1308. doi: 10.1002/bcp.70430. Epub
2026  Feb 3.

Cannabinoids and drug-drug pharmacokinetic interactions: Deciphering the risks.

Papakyriakopoulou P(1), Valsami G(1), Ismailos G(2).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Biopharmaceutics and Pharmacokinetics, Section of 
Pharmaceutical Technology, Department of Pharmacy, School of Health Sciences, 
National and Kapodistrian University of Athens, Athens, Greece.
(2)Experimental, Training and Research Center ELPEN, ELPEN Pharmaceuticals, 
Attica, Greece.

The relationship between cannabinoids and mental health has become a major focus 
of scientific inquiry and public discourse. Cannabinoids are diverse chemical 
compounds from the Cannabis species that have been explored for their 
therapeutic applications in treating chronic pain, psychiatric and neurological 
conditions, such as depression, schizophrenia, epilepsy and anxiety. 
Additionally, cannabinoids are frequently used for recreational purposes. The 
evolving legislation surrounding cannabis has added a layer of complexity to the 
understanding of its pharmacological effects. Societal attitudes shifting 
towards a more permissive acceptance of cannabis use make it essential to 
balance individual freedom with public health concerns. While the use of 
cannabinoids remains a subject of ongoing research, clinical data have shown 
promise in the treatment of mental health disorders. However, debates and 
concerns have been raised regarding the potential pharmacokinetic (PK) drug-drug 
interactions that may occur, involving changes in the absorption, distribution, 
metabolism and excretion (ADME) of the prescribed drugs. The future prospect of 
patients having unrestricted access to cannabis requires special attention in 
case of concurrent use with the common medical treatments they may be receiving 
for a cardiovascular or metabolic disease or with medications related to the 
treatment of psychiatric disorders. This comprehensive review aims to critically 
discuss the main PK interactions of major cannabinoids (tetrahydrocannabinol, 
cannabidiol, cannabinol, cannabichromene and cannabigerol) in relation to the 
drugs prescribed in neuropathic pain, depression, anxiety, schizophrenia, 
epilepsy and cancer, as well as with the most common cardiometabolic disease 
treatments such as statins, beta-blockers, warfarin, insulin analogues and 
metformin.

© 2026 The Author(s). British Journal of Clinical Pharmacology published by John 
Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of British Pharmacological Society.

DOI: 10.1002/bcp.70430
PMCID: PMC13122281
PMID: 41633759 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.