[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: MRI physics image quality artifact reduction | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: MRI physics image quality artifact reduction]

15. Magn Reson Imaging. 2024 Jan;105:108-113. doi: 10.1016/j.mri.2023.10.002.
Epub  2023 Nov 19.

Convolutional network denoising for acceleration of multi-shot diffusion MRI.

Alus O(1), El Homsi M(2), Golia Pernicka JS(2), Rodriguez L(2), Mazaheri Y(3), 
Kee Y(1), Petkovska I(2), Otazo R(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Physics, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New 
York, NY, USA.
(2)Department of Radiology, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York, 
NY, USA.
(3)Department of Medical Physics, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New 
York, NY, USA; Department of Radiology, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, 
New York, NY, USA.
(4)Department of Medical Physics, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New 
York, NY, USA; Department of Radiology, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, 
New York, NY, USA. Electronic address: otazotoj@mskcc.org.

Multi-shot echo planar imaging is a promising technique to reduce geometric 
distortions and increase spatial resolution in diffusion-weighted MRI (DWI), at 
the expense of increased scan time. Moreover, performing DWI in the body 
requires multiple repetitions to obtain sufficient signal-to-noise ratio, which 
further increases the scan time. This work proposes to reduce the number of 
repetitions and perform denoising of high b-value images using a convolutional 
network denoising trained on single-shot DWI to accelerate the acquisition of 
multi-shot DWI. Convolutional network denoising is demonstrated to accelerate 
the acquisition of 2-shot DWI by a factor of 4 compared to the clinical standard 
on patients with rectal cancer. Image quality was evaluated using qualitative 
scores from expert body radiologists between accelerated and non-accelerated 
acquisition. Additionally, the effect of convolutional network denoising on each 
image quality score was analyzed using a Wilcoxon signed-rank test. 
Convolutional network denoising would enable to increase the number of shots 
without increasing scan time for significant geometric artifact reduction and 
spatial resolution increase.

Copyright © 2023 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mri.2023.10.002
PMCID: PMC11138874
PMID: 37820978 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest None.