[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: low-level laser therapy wound healing pain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: low-level laser therapy wound healing pain]

14. Cureus. 2023 Feb 7;15(2):e34755. doi: 10.7759/cureus.34755. eCollection 2023 
Feb.

Effect of Low-Level Laser Therapy on Early Wound Healing and Levels of 
Inflammatory Mediators in Gingival Crevicular Fluid Following Open Flap 
Debridement.

Misra P(1), Kalsi R(2), Anand Arora S(1), Singh KS(1), Athar S(1), Saini A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Periodontics, ITS Dental College, Greater Noida, IND.
(2)Department of Periodontology, Government Institute of Medical Sciences, 
Noida, IND.

Introduction Low-level laser therapy (LLLT) has a beneficial effect on pain 
relief and wound healing. This study aims at a clinical evaluation of early 
wound healing and a biochemical evaluation of inflammatory mediators in gingival 
crevicular fluid (GCF) following LLLT with an open flap debridement (OFD) in 
periodontal therapy. Material and methods This randomized controlled trial 
included 40 chronic periodontitis patients with bilateral attachment loss, 
pocket depths of 5 mm affecting at least two quadrants, and radiographic 
evidence of horizontal bone loss. 120 control sites were randomly selected to 
receive OFD, and contralateral 120 test sites received bio-stimulation with a 
diode laser (890 nm) after OFD. The wound healing index was recorded at the 
1st and 2nd weeks, and clinical parameters such as the plaque index, gingival 
index, pocket probing depth, clinical attachment level, and GCF inflammatory 
mediators were evaluated at baseline, 3, and 6 months. Results From the start of 
the study to 6 months later, there was a statistically significant drop in 
plaque index, gingival index, probing pocket depth, and gain clinical attachment 
levels in both groups. However, when the two groups were compared, there were no 
significant differences at any time intervals. GCF inflammatory mediators tumor 
necrosis factor (TNF) alpha and matrix metalloproteinases (MMP-8) decrease, and 
osteoprotegerin (OPG) levels increase in both the test group and control group 
from baseline to 3 months and 6 months. In intergroup comparisons, there was a 
statistically significant reduction in the test group as compared to the control 
group at 6 months. There was a decline in gingival crevicular fluid - 
interleukin-6 (GCF IL-6) levels from baseline to 3 months and 6 months in both 
the groups but when analysed statistically, the results were not significant on 
intergroup and intragroup comparison at any time interval. The Landry Wound 
Healing Index values in the 1st and 2nd weeks were showing statistically 
significant improved healing in the test group as compared to the control group. 
There was significantly better wound healing at sites where a diode laser was 
used. Conclusion LLLT increases early wound healing after periodontal surgical 
procedures.

Copyright © 2023, Misra et al.

DOI: 10.7759/cureus.34755
PMCID: PMC9999105
PMID: 36909061

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.