[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: Mathematical descriptions of the electromagnetic field | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Mathematical descriptions of the electromagnetic field — Overview

particle physicist's sign convention for the metric signature , the potential 1-form is The Faraday curvature 2-form becomes and the Maxwell tensor becomes The current 3-form J is and the corresponding dual 1-form is The current norm is now positive and equals with the canonical volume form . Curved spacetime Traditional formulation Matter and energy generate curvature of spacetime. This is the subject of general relativity. Curvature of spacetime affects electrodynamics. An electromagnetic field having energy and momentum also generates curvature in spacetime. Maxwell's equations in curved spacetime can be obtained by replacing the derivatives in the equations in flat spacetime with covariant derivatives. (Whether this is the appropriate generalization requires separate investigation.) The sourced and source-free equations become (cgs-Gaussian units):

and

Here,

is a Christoffel symbol that characterizes the curvature of spacetime and ∇α is the covariant derivative. Formulation in terms of differential forms
The formulation of the Maxwell equations in terms of differential forms can be used without change in general relativity. The equivalence of the more traditional general relativistic formulation using the covariant derivative with the differential form formulation can be seen as follows. Choose local coordinates xα which gives a basis of 1-forms dxα in every point of the open set where the coordinates are defined. Using this basis and cgs-Gaussian units we define

The antisymmetric field tensor Fαβ, corresponding to the field 2-form F 
The current-vector infinitesimal 3-form J 

The epsilon tensor contracted with the differential 3-form produces 6 times the number of terms required. Here g is as usual the determinant of the matrix representing the metric tensor, gαβ. A small computation that uses the symmetry of the Christoffel symbols (i.e., the torsion-freeness of the Levi-Civita connection) and the covariant constantness of the Hodge star operator then shows that in this coordinate neighborhood we have:

the Bianchi identity 
the source equation 
the continuity equation

Classical electrodynamics as the curvature of a line bundle
An elegant and intuitive way to formulate Maxwell's equations is to use complex line bundles or a principal U(1)-bundle, on the fibers of which U(1) acts regularly. The principal U(1)-connection ∇ on the line bundle has a curvature F = ∇2 which is a two-form that automatically satisfies  and can be interpreted as a field-strength. If the line bundle is trivial with flat reference connection d we can write  and  with A the 1-form composed of the electric potential and the magnetic vector potential. In quantum mechanics, the connection itself is used to define the dynamics of the system. This formulation allows a natural description of the Aharonov–Bohm effect. In this experiment, a static magnetic field runs through a long magnetic wire (e.g., an iron wire magnetized longitudinally). Outside of this wire the magnetic induction is zero, in contrast to the vector potential, which essentially depends on the magnetic flux through the cross-section of the wire and does not vanish outside. Since there is no electric field either, the Maxwell tensor  throughout the space-time region outside the tube, during the experiment. This means by definition that the connection ∇ is flat there. However, as mentioned, the connection depends on the magnetic field through the tube since the holonomy along a non-contractible curve encircling the tube is the magnetic flux through the tube in the proper units. This can be detected quantum-mechanically with a double-slit electron diffraction experiment on an electron wave traveling around the tube. The holonomy corresponds to an extra phase shift, which leads to a shift in the diffraction pattern. Discussion

Following are the reasons for using each of such formulations. Potential formulation

In advanced classical mechanics it is often useful, and in quantum mechanics frequently essential, to express Maxwell's equations in a potential formulation involving the electric potential (also called scalar potential) φ, and the magnetic potential (a vector potential) A. For example, the analysis of radio antennas makes full use of Maxwell's vector and scalar potentials to separate the variables, a common technique used in formulating the solutions of differential equations. The potentials can be introduced by using the Poincaré lemma on the homogeneous equations to solve them in a universal way (this assumes that we consider a topologically simple, e.g. contractible space). The potentials are defined as in the table above. Alternatively, these equations define E and B in terms of the electric and magnetic potentials which then satisfy the homogeneous equations for E and B as identities. Substitution gives the non-homogeneous Maxwell equations in potential form. Many different choices of A and φ are consistent with given observable electric and magnetic fields E and B, so the potentials seem to contain more, (classically) unobservable information.