[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: traditional Chinese medicine herbs mechanism actio | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: traditional Chinese medicine herbs mechanism action]

31. mBio. 2021 Oct 26;12(5):e0222021. doi: 10.1128/mBio.02220-21. Epub 2021 Sep
28.

Mechanism of Microbial Metabolite Leupeptin in the Treatment of COVID-19 by 
Traditional Chinese Medicine Herbs.

Fu L(#)(1)(2), Shao S(#)(3), Feng Y(#)(1), Ye F(#)(4), Sun X(5)(6), Wang Q(7), 
Yu F(8), Wang Q(8), Huang B(4), Niu P(4), Li X(1), Wong CCL(5)(6)(9), Qi J(1), 
Tan W(4), Gao GF(1).

Author information:
(1)CAS Key Laboratory of Pathogen Microbiology and Immunology, Institute of 
Microbiology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, China.
(2)Center for Influenza Research and Early Warning (CASCIRE), CAS-TWAS Center of 
Excellence for Emerging Infectious Diseases (CEEID), Chinese Academy of 
Sciences, Beijing, China.
(3)National Institute for Radiological Protection, China CDC, Beijing, China.
(4)NHC Key Laboratory of Biosafety, National Institute for Viral Disease Control 
and Prevention, Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention, China CDC, 
Beijing, China.
(5)Center for Precision Medicine Multi-Omics Research, Peking University Health 
Science Center, Peking University, Beijing, China.
(6)Peking University First Hospital, Peking University, Beijing, China.
(7)Shaanxi Natural Carbohydrate Resource Engineering Research Center, College of 
Food Science and Technology, Northwest University, Xi'an, China.
(8)Shanghai Synchrotron Radiation Facility, Shanghai Advanced Research 
Institute, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Shanghai, China.
(9)Peking-Tsinghua Center for Life Sciences, Peking University, Beijing, China.
(#)Contributed equally

Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) has caused huge deaths and economic losses 
worldwide in the current pandemic. The main protease (Mpro) of severe acute 
respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) is thought to be an ideal drug 
target for treating COVID-19. Leupeptin, a broad-spectrum covalent inhibitor of 
serine, cysteine, and threonine proteases, showed inhibitory activity against 
Mpro, with a 50% inhibitory concentration (IC50) value of 127.2 μM in vitro in 
our study here. In addition, leupeptin can also inhibit SARS-CoV-2 in Vero 
cells, with 50% effective concentration (EC50) values of 42.34 μM. More 
importantly, various strains of streptomyces that have a broad symbiotic 
relationship with medicinal plants can produce leupeptin and leupeptin analogs 
to regulate autogenous proteases. Fingerprinting and structure elucidation using 
high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) and high-resolution mass 
spectrometry (HRMS), respectively, further proved that the Qing-Fei-Pai-Du 
(QFPD) decoction, a traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) formula for the effective 
treatment of COVID-19 during the period of the Wuhan outbreak, contains 
leupeptin. All these results indicate that leupeptin at least contributes to the 
antiviral activity of the QFPD decoction against SARS-CoV-2. This also reminds 
us to pay attention to the microbiomes in TCM herbs as streptomyces in the soil 
might produce leupeptin that will later infiltrate the medicinal plant. We 
propose that plants, microbiome, and microbial metabolites form an ecosystem for 
the effective components of TCM herbs. IMPORTANCE A TCM formula has played an 
important role in the treatment of COVID-19 in China. However, the mechanism of 
TCM action is still unclear. In this study, we identified leupeptin, a 
metabolite produced by plant-symbiotic actinomyces (PSA), which showed antiviral 
activity in both cell culture and enzyme assays. Moreover, leupeptin found in 
the QFPD decoction was confirmed by both HPLC fingerprinting and HRMS. These 
results suggest that leupeptin likely contributes to the antiviral activity of 
the QFPD decoction against SARS-CoV-2. This result gives us important insight 
into further studies of the PSA metabolite and medicinal plant ecosystem for 
future TCM modernization research.

DOI: 10.1128/mBio.02220-21
PMCID: PMC8546846
PMID: 34579576 [Indexed for MEDLINE]