[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: traditional Chinese medicine herbs mechanism actio | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: traditional Chinese medicine herbs mechanism action]

33. Stud Health Technol Inform. 2023 Nov 23;308:669-679. doi: 10.3233/SHTI230899.

The Mechanism of Core Chinese Medicine Combination in Treating Salivation.

Wang Y(1), Zhang Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Changchun University of Chinese Medicine.

OBJECTIVE: To analyze the regularity of modern Chinese herbal compound in the 
treatment of salivation based on data mining technology, and to study the 
potential mechanism of core Chinese herbal medicine in the treatment of 
salivation using network pharmacology and molecular docking.
METHODS: CNKI, VIP and Wanfang literature databases were searched.Choose a 
prescription for salivation.Excel2019 was used to establish a database of 
formulas for the treatment of salivation.The included TCM compounds were 
analyzed by frequency statistics and association rules using the ancient and 
modern medical record cloud platform to obtain the core drug pairs.TCMSP and 
Uniprot were used to search the components and targets of the core drug pairs, 
and intersected with the disease targets obtained from Genecards, OMIM, TTD, 
PharmgKb, and DrugBank platforms.Complex networks were constructed by 
cytoscape3.9.1; PPI networks were completed by STRING platform; GO and KEEG 
pathway enrichment analysis was performed by R language; finally molecular 
docking validation was performed using AutoDockTools software; and the results 
were visualized by Pymol software.
RESULTS: 122 prescriptions were obtained, 194 herbs were used, the total 
frequency was 1047, and the top ten drugs used were Atractylodes macrocephala 
Koidz, Poria cocos, Glycyrrhiza uralensis, Yizhiren, Citrus sinensis, Codonopsis 
pilosula, Yam, Pinellia ternate, Zingiber officinale, and Coptis chinensis.After 
association rule analysis, the core drug pair Codonopsis pilosula - Atractylodes 
macrocephala Koidz was obtained.Twenty-seven effective active components of core 
drug pairs were screened, corresponding to 62 targets for the treatment of 
salivation, and four core targets were MAPK1, TP53, MAPK14, and ESR1.GO 
enrichment analysis yielded 1789 biological process entries, 81 cellular 
component entries and 111 molecular function entries.KEGG enrichment analysis 
resulted in 157 pathways, and the first 30 were selected for 
visualization.Molecular docking of luteolin, 7-Methoxy-2-methyl isoflavone, 
Stigmasterol, 3β-acetoxyatractylone, Frutinone A, 
3betaHydroxymethyllenetanshiquinone, glycitein to the core target showed that 
the key active components had good binding activity to the core target.
CONCLUSION: The key active components of Codonopsis pilosula and Atractylodes 
macrocephala Koidz in the treatment of salivation act on MAPK1, TP53, MAPK14 and 
ESR1 through Calcium, PI3K Akt and IL-17 signaling pathways to regulate the 
physiological processes of nerve, muscle, endocrine and reproductive systems and 
the physiological functions of nerve cells, providing a theoretical reference 
for the later study of integrated traditional Chinese and western medicine in 
the treatment of salivation.

DOI: 10.3233/SHTI230899
PMID: 38007798 [Indexed for MEDLINE]