[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: nanoparticle drug delivery tumor targeting cancer | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: nanoparticle drug delivery tumor targeting cancer]

51. Nanomedicine. 2016 May;12(4):1083-1093. doi: 10.1016/j.nano.2015.12.375. Epub
 2016 Jan 6.

Nanoparticle-mediated drug delivery to high-grade gliomas.

Frosina G(1).

Author information:
(1)Mutagenesis Unit, IRCCS Azienda Ospedaliera Universitaria San Martino-IST 
Istituto Nazionale per la Ricerca sul Cancro, Genova, Italy. Electronic address: 
guido.frosina@hsanmartino.it.

High grade gliomas (HGGs) are fatal brain tumors due to their infiltration 
capacity and the presence of resistant cell populations. Further, the brain is 
naturally protected from many exogenous molecules by the brain blood barrier 
(BBB), which limits or cancels passage of cytotoxic drugs to the tumor sites. In 
order to cope with the latter problem, nanoparticle (NP)-based carriers are 
intensively investigated, due to multiple possibilities to drive them across the 
BBB to the tumor sites and drop cytotoxic molecules there. The current status of 
research on NP for drug delivery to HGGs has been analyzed. The results indicate 
gold, lipids and proteins as three main materials featuring NP formulations for 
HGG treatment. Albeit specific drug targeting to HGG cells may have not been so 
far significantly improved, NP may help drugs crossing the BBB and enter the 
brain thus potentially fixing at least one part of the problem.
FROM THE CLINICAL EDITOR: High grade gliomas (HGG) are very aggressive tumours 
and current therapy remains unsatisfactory. The advance in nanomedicine has 
allowed the development of novel treatment modalities. In this review article, 
the authors outlined the current status in using nanoparticle (NP)-based 
carriers for drug delivery to HGG. This should help readers to understand and 
develop ideas for further drug carrier designs.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.nano.2015.12.375
PMID: 26767516 [Indexed for MEDLINE]