[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS neurology | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS neurology]

37. Biol Psychiatry. 2024 Mar 15;95(6):494-501. doi:
10.1016/j.biopsych.2023.11.022.  Epub 2023 Dec 5.

Electric Field Modeling in Personalizing Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation 
Interventions.

Dannhauer M(1), Gomez LJ(2), Robins PL(1), Wang D(2), Hasan NI(2), Thielscher 
A(3), Siebner HR(4), Fan Y(5), Deng ZD(6).

Author information:
(1)Computational Neurostimulation Research Program, Noninvasive Neuromodulation 
Unit, Experimental Therapeutics and Pathophysiology Branch, National Institute 
of Mental Health, Bethesda, Maryland.
(2)School of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Purdue University, West 
Lafayette, Indiana.
(3)Danish Research Centre for Magnetic Resonance, Centre for Functional and 
Diagnostic Imaging and Research, Copenhagen University Hospital Hvidovre, 
Hvidovre, Denmark; Department of Health Technology, Technical University of 
Denmark, Kongens Lyngby, Denmark.
(4)Danish Research Centre for Magnetic Resonance, Centre for Functional and 
Diagnostic Imaging and Research, Copenhagen University Hospital Hvidovre, 
Hvidovre, Denmark; Department of Neurology, Copenhagen University Hospital 
Bispebjerg, Copenhagen, Denmark; Institute for Clinical Medicine, University of 
Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(5)Department of Radiology, Perelman School of Medicine, University of 
Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.
(6)Computational Neurostimulation Research Program, Noninvasive Neuromodulation 
Unit, Experimental Therapeutics and Pathophysiology Branch, National Institute 
of Mental Health, Bethesda, Maryland. Electronic address: zhi-de.deng@nih.gov.

The modeling of transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS)-induced electric fields 
(E-fields) is a versatile technique for evaluating and refining brain targeting 
and dosing strategies, while also providing insights into dose-response 
relationships in the brain. This review outlines the methodologies employed to 
derive E-field estimations, covering TMS physics, modeling assumptions, and 
aspects of subject-specific head tissue and coil modeling. We also summarize 
various numerical methods for solving the E-field and their suitability for 
various applications. Modeling methodologies have been optimized to efficiently 
execute numerous TMS simulations across diverse scalp coil configurations, 
facilitating the identification of optimal setups or rapid cortical E-field 
visualization for specific brain targets. These brain targets are extrapolated 
from neurophysiological measurements and neuroimaging, enabling precise and 
individualized E-field dosing in experimental and clinical applications. This 
necessitates the quantification of E-field estimates using metrics that enable 
the comparison of brain target engagement, functional localization, and TMS 
intensity adjustments across subjects. The integration of E-field modeling with 
empirical data has the potential to uncover pivotal insights into the aspects of 
E-fields responsible for stimulating and modulating brain function and states, 
enhancing behavioral task performance, and impacting the clinical outcomes of 
personalized TMS interventions.

Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biopsych.2023.11.022
PMCID: PMC10922371
PMID: 38061463 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: HRS has received honoraria as speaker from 
Sanofi Genzyme, Denmark, and Novartis, Denmark, as consultant from Sanofi 
Genzyme, Denmark, Lophora, Denmark, and Lundbeck AS, Denmark, and as 
editor-in-chief (Neuroimage Clinical) and senior editor (NeuroImage) from 
Elsevier, the Netherlands. He has received royalties as book editor from 
Springer, Germany and Gyldendal, Denmark. All other authors report no biomedical 
financial interests or potential conflicts of interest.