[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: STED microscopy | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# STED microscopy — Overview

organelle or protein in a living cell. This method was shown to work at 50 nm lateral resolution within Citrine-tubulin expressing mammalian cells. In addition to detecting structures in mammalian cells, STED has allowed for the visualization of clustering YFP tagged PIN proteins in the plasma membrane of plant cells. Recently, multicolor live-cell STED was performed using a pulsed far-red laser and CLIPf-tag and SNAPf-tag expression. In the brain of intact animals 
Superficial layers of mouse cortex can be repetitively imaged through a cranial window. This allows following the fate and shape of individual dendritic spines for many weeks. With two-color STED, it is even possible to resolve the nanostructure of the postsynaptic density in life animals. STED at video rates and beyond 

Super-resolution requires small pixels, which means more spaces to acquire from in a given sample, which leads to a longer acquisition time. However, the focal spot size is dependent on the intensity of the laser being used for depletion. As a result, this spot size can be tuned, changing the size and imaging speed. A compromise can then be reached between these two factors for each specific imaging task. Rates of 80 frames per second have been recorded, with focal spots around 60 nm. Up to 200 frames per second can be reached for small fields of view. Problems

Photobleaching can occur either from excitation into an even higher excited state, or from excitation in the triplet state. To prevent the excitation of an excited electron into another, higher excited state, the energy of the photon needed to trigger the alternative emission should not overlap the energy of the excitation from one excited state to another. This will ensure that each laser photon that contacts the fluorophores will cause stimulated emission, and not cause the electron to be excited to another, higher energy state. Triplet states are much longer lived than singlet states, and to prevent triplet states from exciting, the time between laser pulses needs to be long enough to allow the electron to relax through another quenching method, or a chemical compound should be added to quench the triplet state. See also
 Confocal microscopy
 Fluorescence
 Fluorescence microscope
 Laser scanning confocal microscopy
 Optical microscope
 Photoactivated localization microscopy
 Stochastic optical reconstruction microscopy
 Super-resolution microscopy
Ground state depletion microscopy

References

External links

 Overview at the Department of NanoBiophotonics at the Max Planck Institute for Biophysical Chemistry. Brief summary of the RESOLFT equations developed by Stefan Hell. Stefan Hell lecture: Super-Resolution: Overview and Stimulated Emission Depletion (STED) Microscopy
 Light Microscopy: An ongoing contemporary revolution (Introductory Review)

Cell imaging
Diffraction
Laboratory equipment
Optical microscopy techniques