[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: magnetotherapy clinical evidence pain healing | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: magnetotherapy clinical evidence pain healing]

4. Electromagn Biol Med. 2026 Mar 26:1-8. doi: 10.1080/15368378.2026.2648306. 
Online ahead of print.

Extracorporeal magnetotransduction therapy as an adjunctive and primary modality 
for bone healing: a scoping review of current evidence.

Rohan Charles BS(1), Alexander Vlasak MD(1), Travis Turner MD(1), Joshua Romero 
MD(1), Elizabeth Bondi DPM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopedic Surgery, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA.

BACKGROUND: Delayed or improper bone healing causes significant physical and 
socioeconomic burdens. Pulsed electromagnetic field therapy aims to improve 
fracture repair but shows inconsistent results. Extracorporeal 
Magnetotransduction Therapy offers higher oscillation frequencies and magnetic 
field strengths than PEMF, potentially enhancing bone regeneration through 
deeper tissue penetration and stronger cellular stimulation.
METHODS: A scoping review identified nine studies on EMTT for fracture healing: 
two in vitro, six case reports, and one pilot clinical trial.
RESULTS: In vitro, EMTT upregulated osteogenic genes and accelerated matrix 
mineralization without harming cell viability, demonstrating a biological role 
in bone formation. Clinical reports and the pilot trial showed faster bone 
union, pain relief, and functional improvement when EMTT was used alone or with 
extracorporeal shockwave therapy.
CONCLUSION: Preliminary evidence supports EMTT as a safe and potentially viable 
non-operative modality, primarily as an adjunct to established treatments such 
as ESWT. These studies also illustrate EMTT's potential to enhance angiogenesis, 
osteogenic gene expression, and clinical bone healing. Clinical cases of delayed 
union and non-union fractures demonstrating healing with EMTT, resulting in 
successful union and return to sport for all patients reported. While results 
suggest synergistic effects with Extracorporeal Shockwave Therapy (ESWT), the 
evidence remains limited by small sample sizes, publication bias, and 
confounding adjunct therapies. Future randomized controlled trials are required 
to establish standardized protocols and isolate EMTT's efficacy as monotherapy.

Plain Language Summary: This review explains how electromagnetic transduction 
therapy (EMTT) may enhance bone healing, especially when it is slowed or even 
stopped. First describing the basics of normal bone healing, including 
inflammation, new blood vessel growth, callus formation, and bone remodeling. 
Then, discussing ways this process fails, leading to delayed unions and 
nonunions that can cause pain, disability, and the need for more surgery. EMTT 
is a technology that uses rapidly oscillating electromagnetic fields applied 
from outside the body to stimulate cell signaling which can be used to enhance 
the processes of bone growth. Laboratory and animal studies show that these 
fields can increase bone-forming cell activity, support blood vessel formation, 
and improve the quality and amount of new bone. EMTT is also compared with other 
biologic or physical therapies like low-intensity pulsed ultrasound, pulsed 
electromagnetic fields, and extracorporeal shockwave therapy, outlining 
potential advantages over these such as increased strength and reduced treatment 
time. Clinical studies in this review suggest EMTT may shorten healing time and 
improve union rates in fractures and nonunions. The data in these studies come 
from early-stage studies and case reports due to the novelty of the treatment. 
These studies show that EMTT is safe, with almost no side effects, but also show 
that dosing parameters (treatment frequency, intensity, duration) are not yet 
standardized. Overall, this review elucidates that EMTT is a promising adjunct 
to standard surgical and nonsurgical care for difficult bone-healing cases, but 
larger, high-quality clinical trials are needed before it can be widely 
recommended.

DOI: 10.1080/15368378.2026.2648306
PMID: 41885227