[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: phytotherapy systematic review clinical evidence | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: phytotherapy systematic review clinical evidence]

13. Phytother Res. 2018 Jul;32(7):1147-1162. doi: 10.1002/ptr.6055. Epub 2018 Mar
 25.

Herbal medicines in the treatment of psychiatric disorders: 10-year updated 
review.

Sarris J(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)NICM Health Research Institute, School of Science and Health, Western Sydney 
University, Westmead, NSW, Australia.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, The Melbourne Clinic, Professorial Unit, ARCADIA 
Research Group, The University of Melbourne, Melbourne, VIC, Australia.

This paper provides a 10-year update of the 2007 systematic review of herbal 
medicines studied in a broad range of psychiatric disorders, including 
depression, anxiety, obsessive-compulsive, seasonal affective, bipolar, 
psychotic, phobic, somatoform, and attention-deficit hyperactivity disorders. 
Ovid Medline, PubMed, and the Cochrane Library were searched for herbal 
medicines with both pharmacological and clinical evidence of psychotropic 
activity. This updated review now covers clinical trial evidence for 24 herbal 
medicines in 11 psychiatric disorders. High-quality evidence was found to exist 
for the use of Piper methysticum (Kava), Passiflora spp. (passionflower) and 
Galphimia glauca (galphimia) for anxiety disorders; and Hypericum perforatum (St 
John's wort) and Crocus sativus (saffron) for major depressive disorder. Other 
encouraging herbal medicines with preliminary evidence include Curcuma longa 
(turmeric) in depression, Withania somnifera (ashwagandha) in affective 
disorders, and Ginkgo biloba (ginkgo) as an adjunctive treatment in 
Schizophrenia. Although depression and anxiety are commonly researched, many 
other mental disorders still require further prospective investigation. Although 
the previous review suggested increasing the adjunctive study of select herbal 
medicines with pharmaceuticals, this was still only found to sparingly occur in 
research designs. Aside from this, future focus should involve the incorporation 
of more biomarker analysis, in particular pharmacogenomics, to determine genetic 
factors moderating response to herbal medicines.

Copyright © 2018 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/ptr.6055
PMID: 29575228 [Indexed for MEDLINE]