[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: Utricularia resupinata | Type: Instruction-QA | Level: Graduate]

Question: Provide a comprehensive expert-level explanation of Utricularia resupinata in the context of Applied Sciences.

Answer:
Utricularia resupinata, popularly known as lavender bladderwort or northeastern bladderwort, is a small perennial subaquatic carnivorous plant that belongs to the genus Utricularia (family Lentibulariaceae). It is native to eastern Canada, the United States, and Central America. This plant species has an interesting etymology, growth pattern, ecology, and research history. As a plant that is threatened or endangered in many of the States where it is found, it is a candidate for sound conservation efforts.

Botanical description and etymology 
Botanical publications of this species will often describe it as "Utricularia resupinata B. D. Greene ex Bigelow," identifying its scientific name (Utricularia resupinata), its genus (Utricularia), its specific epithet (resupinata), the original discoverer (Benjamin Daniel Greene), and the publisher of the first information about the species (Jacob Bigelow). Scientific names in botany are defined by what is called a plant's binomial nomenclature or the use of two names for a species, genus and epithet. The person who describes and publishes a new species cannot name it for him or herself. A plant may be named after the person who first collected it, or for a location, a plant feature, much more. In this case, the epithet is derived from the Latin word resupinata. Etymology for Utricularia resupinata comes from two Latin words – utriculus which means “a small bottle” and refers to its insect-trapping bladders, and the word resupinata which means “bent or thrown back,” for the top part of the bladderwort’s flower.

Plant form 

The 1913 botanical illustration of this bladderwort species depicts a delicate 2 to 12-inch stem growing along or just below the surface in very shallow water on a slender root or basal system; leaves are tiny or absent, often buried in the sand or mud; the showy blue to purple flower blooms from August to September with a two-lipped petal held up by a thin stem, the upper lips facing upwards and the three-lobed lower lip having a projection or sac extending from the petal base; fruit forms in a two-valved sac holding small seeds, on a separate stem emerging from a bract just above the base of the plant, as if its stem is sitting on a couch or in a flower pot, the fruit being dry and splitting open when ripe; and bladderwort reproduces both sexually by seed and asexually by producing compact buds or turions which break free from the parent plant and spread out nearby to start new plants. Native Plant Trust’s "Go Botany" lists Utricularia resupinata’s characteristics in minute detail, stating that the plant has a lifespan of two-years or more. The attribute of this carnivorous plant for capturing and digesting animal life is the main factor placing it in the Lentibulariaceae or bladderwort family – with a typical plant system holding from a dozen to a hundred 1 to 6 mm bladders or “traps” for minute animal life. The flower pictured here is a good illustration of this bladderwort's showy lavender flower with its lower projecting sac.

Plant growth and ecology 

Utricularia resupinata grows on the edges of wetlands or along the shore or in the shallow water of ponds, lakes, or rivers. It can be found in the moist sandy soil of recently built roads. Ideal growing conditions consist of a sandy substrate covered over by a thin layer of mud or muck. In its northern range it appears to only flower when low water levels occur at the same time as higher than average temperatures exist. It was thought to be extirpated in Indiana until it was rediscovered in 2005.

The specimen of Utricularia resupinata depicted below was collected by George R. Cooley, R. J. Easton, Carroll E. Wood, Jr., and C. Earle Smith, Jr. in May, 1961 on the shore of Lake Tsala Apopka, Florida, in a half inch of water. This specimen is part of the University of South Florida herbarium, and it shows this specimen in the flowering stage, with its thick network of stems and base runners, dried flowers and tiny leaves and bladders, and stems with seeds.

Geographical distribution 

Professor Asa Gray published the first of eight editions of his Manual of Botany in 1848, with a limited range noted for collected specimens of Utricularia resupinata, “at sandy margins of ponds, East Maine to Rhode Island.” The "Bulletin of the Torrey Botanical Society" – published in New York City by the first such club in the Americas – was quick to announce that a member of the Syracuse Botanical Club had found it beyond this limited zone “in the North Woods, Fenton’s No. 4, Lewis Co., New York, Aug., 1879, on the marshy shores of a lake, as we are informed.”

Frank Tweedy had been hired in 1876 to survey and map the Beaver River basin for Verplanck Colvin's Adirondack Survey in New York (state), pursuing his passion of plant collecting each Sunday, and he responded to that announcement in the Torrey Bulletin with his own discovery of Utricularia resupinata in several more locations. This was the first of the more than 6,000 officially reported specimens Tweedy collected, most of them in the Rocky Mountains:

Since Tweedy’s finds deep in the Adirondack Mountains, Utricularia resupinata has been found in Canada, the eastern US as far as the Great Lakes states, and in Central America. A Range Map created by “The Floristic Synthesis of North America (BONAP)” shows the wider range for this species, though it is increasingly threatened or endangered in many States.

Plant taxonomy 

At the top of the taxonomy or scientific classification offered here is the kingdom of plants (Plantae), followed by a number of “clades” or monophyletic groups composed of a common ancestor and all its lineal descendants: The clade of vascular plants (Tracheophytes); the clade of flowering plants (Angiosperms); the clade of flowering plants with two seeds on germination (Eudicots); the clade of flowering plants with only one common ancestor (Asterids); and the order of flowering plants as a subgroup of the Asterids