[Domain: Propulsion | Subfield: Aerospace | Topic: Aerothermodynamics of Pyrolizing Surfaces in Hypersonic Rare | Type: NASA-TechReport | Level: Expert]

[NASA Technical Reports | Year: ]

Title: Aerothermodynamics of Pyrolizing Surfaces in Hypersonic Rarefied Flows

Abstract:
Direct simulation Monte Carlo (DSMC) calculations of rarefied flows about entry bodies typically employ a fixed surface temperature or a radiative-equilibrium energy balance to compute that temperature. Such boundary conditions neglect any effects of heat capacitance and heat conduction in the spacecraft heat shield and, therefore, provide an upper bound for the surface temperature. Such calculations also neglect pyrolysis from the heat shield which can be significant for a high-energy incident flow at very low densities. Accurate prediction of both heating and aerodynamic forces requires including pyrolysis and surface heat transfer in the models for gas-surface interaction employed in DSMC methods. Although these physical models have long appeared in various continuum flow calculation codes, they have only recently appeared in DSMC codes which are required to simulate rarefied flows during entry at high altitudes. In the current implementation, routines from the widely distributed Charring Material Thermal Response and Ablation (CMA) program are coupled into a DSMC code to calculate the one-dimensional heat transfer into the carbon phenolic heat shield at each point on a vehicle surface. Temperature-dependent material properties, surface re-radiation, and in-depth pyrolysis were included in the calculation, but surface ablation was neglected. Sample calculations for entry of the Galileo probe into the atmosphere of Jupiter demonstrate that including pyrolysis in the model leads to significant differences in predicted aerodynamics. Granted, the drag coefficient does not depend strongly on the surface temperature which can itself be significantly below the radiative equilibrium value during entry. However, the surface mass flux due to pyrolysis of the material is significant once the probe drops to altitudes characterized by transition flow. This leads to a noticeable increase in drag and a decrease in heating compared to a body without pyrolysis.