[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: Multi-Objective Optimization Design of Permanent Magnet Torq | Type: Peer-Reviewed | Level: Expert]

[Semantic Scholar | Fields: Computer Science | Year: 2021 | Citations: 6]

Title: Multi-Objective Optimization Design of Permanent Magnet Torque Motor

Abstract:
Permanent magnet torque motor (PMTM) is widely used in aerospace, computer numerical control (CNC) machine tools, and industrial robots with many advantages such as high torque density, strong overload capacity, and low torque ripple. With the upgrading of industrial manufacturing, the requirements for the performance of torque motors have become more stringent. At present, how to achieve high output torque and low torque ripple has become a research hotspot of torque motors. In the optimization process, it is necessary to increase the output torque while the torque ripple can be reduced, and it is difficult to get a good result with the single-objective optimization. In this paper, a multi-objective optimization method based on the combination of design parameter stratification and support vector machine (SVM) is proposed. By analyzing the causes of torque ripple, the output torque, efficiency, cogging torque, and total harmonic distortion (THD) of back electromotive force (EMF) are selected as the optimization objectives. In order to solve the coupling problem between the motor parameters, the calculation formula of Pearson correlation coefficient is used to analyze the relationship between the design parameters and the optimization objectives, and the design parameters are layered ac-cording to the sensitivity. In order to shorten the optimization cycle of the motor, SVM is used as a fitting method of the mathematical model. The performance between initial and optimal motors is compared, and it can be found that the optimized motor has a higher torque and lower torque ripple. The simulation results verify the effectiveness of the proposed optimization method.