[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: crystal structure protein drug target binding | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: crystal structure protein drug target binding]

4. J Vis Exp. 2025 Jun 20;(220). doi: 10.3791/67174.

Incorporating Target Protein Structure Flexibility and Dynamics in Computational 
Drug Discovery Using Ensemble-Based Docking Analysis.

Hidayat AFA(1), Mohamad SB(2).

Author information:
(1)Bioinformatics Programme, Institute of Biological Sciences, Faculty of 
Science, Universiti Malaya.
(2)Bioinformatics Programme, Institute of Biological Sciences, Faculty of 
Science, Universiti Malaya; Centre of Research in Systems Biology, Structural 
Bioinformatics and Human Digital Imaging (CRYSTAL), Universiti Malaya; 
saharuddin@um.edu.my.

The drug discovery process is a rigorous, time-consuming, and expensive 
operation. The computational approach in drug discovery allows researchers to 
prioritize the most promising compounds for further testing, which would greatly 
reduce the required resources, leading to an increment of the overall efficiency 
in the drug discovery pipelines. Structure-based drug discovery is a common 
approach that requires the structural information of the target protein in a 
three-dimensional format. However, the current limitation of most computer-aided 
drug discovery strategies is their inability to introduce the flexibility and 
dynamics of the target protein structure during the ligand-protein docking 
simulation. While both induced fit docking and ensemble-based docking aim to 
address protein flexibility in the docking procedure, the latter can provide a 
more comprehensive view of dynamic protein behavior by incorporating multiple 
conformations throughout the simulation. In this report, we demonstrate and 
discuss the application of a technique called ensemble-based docking analysis 
that indirectly introduces the target protein structure's flexibility and 
dynamics in the molecular docking process. The protein and ligand selected for 
ensemble-based docking studies were lysozyme and Flovokawain B (FB), 
respectively. FB has been previously reported to have binding activity with 
lysozyme. A molecular dynamics (MD) simulation was performed on lysozyme in the 
presence of water, and the total energy, root-mean-square deviation (RMSD), and 
root-mean-square fluctuation (RMSF) were examined. Conformation clustering was 
generated based on several clustering cutoff values and was chosen for 
additional docking analysis with FB. Cluster no 2 gives the lowest binding 
energy at -29.37 kJ/mol. Molecular docking images were generated to anticipate 
the presence of binding forces. By incorporating the structural dynamics of the 
protein, the ensemble-based docking approach can better capture the range of 
possible binding scenarios, leading to more reliable predictions of binding 
outcomes.

DOI: 10.3791/67174
PMID: 40622888 [Indexed for MEDLINE]