[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: curcumin anti-inflammatory clinical trial randomiz | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: curcumin anti-inflammatory clinical trial randomized]

24. Nutr Rev. 2023 Apr 11;81(5):555-577. doi: 10.1093/nutrit/nuac075.

Effects of nutrition on metabolic and endocrine outcomes in women with 
polycystic ovary syndrome: an umbrella review of meta-analyses of randomized 
controlled trials.

Moslehi N(1), Zeraattalab-Motlagh S(2), Rahimi Sakak F(1), Shab-Bidar S(2), 
Tehrani FR(3), Mirmiran P(1)(4).

Author information:
(1)Nutrition and Endocrine Research Center, Research Institute for Endocrine 
Sciences, Shahid Beheshti University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(2)Department of Community Nutrition, School of Nutritional Sciences and 
Dietetics, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(3)Reproductive Endocrinology Research Center, Research Institute for Endocrine 
Sciences, Shahid Beheshti University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(4)Department of Clinical Nutrition and Dietetics, Faculty of Nutrition and Food 
Technology, National Nutrition and Food Technology Research Institute, Shahid 
Beheshti University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.

CONTEXT: Numerous meta-analyses have been conducted on the effects of 
nutritional interventions on various health outcomes in women with polycystic 
ovary syndrome (PCOS). However, the strength of the evidence and its clinical 
significance are unclear.
OBJECTIVE: This umbrella review aimed to summarize the effects of nutritional 
interventions on women with PCOS and assess the strength of the evidence.
DATA SOURCES: PubMed, Scopus, and Web of Science were searched from inception 
until March 17, 2021.
DATA EXTRACTION: Meta-analyses of randomized clinical trials (RCTs) that 
examined the impact of dietary modifications or supplementations on women with 
PCOS were selected. Data extraction, quality assessments of the meta-analyses, 
and evaluation of the strength of the evidence were conducted independently by 2 
investigators and confirmed by a third.
DATA ANALYSIS: Twenty-eight RCT meta-analyses were included, reporting 40 
different outcomes. Lower carbohydrate, Dietary Approaches to Stop Hypertension, 
or lower glycemic index/load diets in women with PCOS significantly improved 
some anthropometric and metabolic characteristics (with very low to low 
certainty). Probiotics/synbiotics reduced fasting plasma glucose, fasting 
insulin (FI), and homeostasis model assessment-estimated insulin resistance 
(HOMA-IR) (with moderate to high certainty). Curcumin supplementation decreased 
fasting plasma glucose, FI, and HOMA-IR (with moderate certainty). Fish oil 
supplementation decreased FI and HOMA-IR, and omega-3 reduced triglycerides 
(with moderate certainty). There were also improvements in FI after taking 
vitamin D or inositol supplements (with moderate certainty). Supplementation 
with fish oil increased adiponectin (with high certainty), and 
probiotics/synbiotics reduced total testosterone (with moderate certainty). In 
subfertile women with PCOS, inositol increased the ovulation rates (with 
moderate certainty).
CONCLUSION: There was no high-certainty evidence that diets alone in women with 
PCOS improved health or reproductive outcomes. Supplementation with vitamin D, 
probiotics/synbiotics, omega-3, inositol, and curcumin showed favorable effects 
on some metabolic outcomes. Probiotics/synbiotics possibly reduces total 
testosterone, and inositol stimulates ovulation in women with PCOS.
REGISTRATION: PROSPERO registration no. CRD42021251496.

© The Author(s) 2022. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
International Life Sciences Institute. All rights reserved. For permissions, 
please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/nutrit/nuac075
PMID: 36099162 [Indexed for MEDLINE]