[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS neurology | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS neurology]

28. Acta Neurol Scand. 2014 Jun;129(6):351-66. doi: 10.1111/ane.12223. Epub 2014
Feb  8.

Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS)/repetitive TMS in mild cognitive 
impairment and Alzheimer's disease.

Nardone R(1), Tezzon F, Höller Y, Golaszewski S, Trinka E, Brigo F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Christian Doppler Klinik, Paracelsus Medical 
University, Salzburg, Austria; Department of Neurology, Franz Tappeiner 
Hospital, Merano, Italy.

Several Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation (TMS) techniques can be applied to 
noninvasively measure cortical excitability and brain plasticity in humans. TMS 
has been used to assess neuroplastic changes in Alzheimer's disease (AD), 
corroborating findings that cortical physiology is altered in AD due to the 
underlying neurodegenerative process. In fact, many TMS studies have provided 
physiological evidence of abnormalities in cortical excitability, connectivity, 
and plasticity in patients with AD. Moreover, the combination of TMS with other 
neurophysiological techniques, such as high-density electroencephalography 
(EEG), makes it possible to study local and network cortical plasticity 
directly. Interestingly, several TMS studies revealed abnormalities in patients 
with early AD and even with mild cognitive impairment (MCI), thus enabling early 
identification of subjects in whom the cholinergic degeneration has occurred. 
Furthermore, TMS can influence brain function if delivered repetitively; 
repetitive TMS (rTMS) is capable of modulating cortical excitability and 
inducing long-lasting neuroplastic changes. Preliminary findings have suggested 
that rTMS can enhance performances on several cognitive functions impaired in AD 
and MCI. However, further well-controlled studies with appropriate methodology 
in larger patient cohorts are needed to replicate and extend the initial 
findings. The purpose of this paper was to provide an updated and comprehensive 
systematic review of the studies that have employed TMS/rTMS in patients with 
MCI and AD.

© 2014 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/ane.12223
PMID: 24506061 [Indexed for MEDLINE]