[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: ethnobotany traditional medicine biological activi | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: ethnobotany traditional medicine biological activity]

29. J Ethnopharmacol. 2020 Mar 1;249:112434. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2019.112434. Epub
 2019 Dec 6.

Review: Southern African medicinal plants used as blood purifiers.

van Vuuren S(1), Frank L(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy and Pharmacology, Faculty of Health Sciences, 
University of the Witwatersrand, 7 York Road, Parktown, 2193, South Africa. 
Electronic address: sandy.vanvuuren@wits.ac.za.
(2)Department of Pharmacy and Pharmacology, Faculty of Health Sciences, 
University of the Witwatersrand, 7 York Road, Parktown, 2193, South Africa.

ETHNOPHARMALOGICAL RELEVANCE: Blood purification practices, also referred to as 
blood cleansing or detoxification, is an ancient concept which is widespread 
amongst African traditional medicine, but for which no modern scientific basis 
exists. There prevails considerable ambiguity in defining what a blood purifier 
is.
AIM OF THE STUDY: The purpose of this review is to firstly define what a blood 
purifier is in the context of African traditional medicine and compare to other 
cultural and westernized interpretations. Thereafter, this study identifies 
traditionally used medicinal plants used as blood purifiers in southern Africa 
and correlates these species to scientific studies, which may support evidence 
for these "blood purifying plant species".
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Ethnobotanical books and review articles were used to 
identify medicinal plants used for blood purification. Databases such as Scopus, 
ScienceDirect, PubMed and Google Scholar were used to source scientific 
articles. An evaluation was made to try correlate traditional use to scientific 
value of the plant species.
RESULTS: One hundred and fifty nine plant species have been documented as 
traditional remedies for blood purification. Most of the plant species have some 
pharmacological activity, however, very little link to the traditional use for 
blood purification. There has been some justification of the link between blood 
purification and the use as an antimicrobial and this has been explored in many 
of the plant species identified as blood purifiers. Other pharmacological 
studies specifically pertaining to the blood require further attention.
CONCLUSION: Irrespective of the ambiguity of interpretation, medicinal plants 
used to "cleanse the blood", play an important holistic role in traditional 
medicine and this review with recommendations for further study provides some 
value of exploring this theme in the future.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2019.112434
PMID: 31812645 [Indexed for MEDLINE]