[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: cannabis cannabidiol therapeutic epilepsy pain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: cannabis cannabidiol therapeutic epilepsy pain]

98. Drug Test Anal. 2021 Mar;13(3):614-627. doi: 10.1002/dta.2947. Epub 2020 Dec
1.

A validated method for the simultaneous quantification of cannabidiol, Δ(9) 
-tetrahydrocannabinol, and their metabolites in human plasma and application to 
plasma samples from an oral cannabidiol open-label trial.

Kevin RC(1)(2), Vogel R(2)(3), Doohan P(2), Berger M(4)(5), Amminger GP(4)(5), 
McGregor IS(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Psychology, Faculty of Science, The University of Sydney, Sydney, 
New South Wales, Australia.
(2)The Lambert Initiative for Cannabinoid Therapeutics, Brain and Mind Centre, 
The University of Sydney, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.
(3)School of Chemistry, Faculty of Science, The University of Sydney, Sydney, 
New South Wales, Australia.
(4)Orygen Youth Health, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
(5)Centre for Youth Mental Health, University of Melbourne, Melbourne, Victoria, 
Australia.

Cannabidiol (CBD) and Δ9 -tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) are the two best known and 
most extensively studied phytocannabinoids within Cannabis sativa. An increasing 
number of preclinical studies and clinical trials have been conducted with one 
or both compounds, often probing their therapeutic effects in conditions such as 
paediatric epilepsy, anxiety disorders or chronic pain. Accurate monitoring of 
THC and CBD and their metabolites is essential for tracking treatment adherence 
and pharmacokinetics. However, fully validated methods for the comprehensive 
analysis of major Phase I CBD metabolites are yet to be developed due to a 
historical lack of commercially available reference material. In the present 
study, we developed, optimised and validated a method for the simultaneous 
quantification of CBD, THC and their major Phase I metabolites 6-hydroxy-CBD 
(6-OH-CBD), 7-hydroxy-CBD (7-OH-CBD), 7-carboxy-CBD (7-COOH-CBD), 
11-hydroxy-tetrahydrocannabinol (11-OH-THC) and 11-carboxy-tetrahydrocannabinol 
(11-COOH-THC) as per Food and Drug Administration (FDA) guidelines for 
bioanalytical method validation. The method is accurate, reproducible, sensitive 
and can be carried out in high-throughput 96-well formats, ideal for larger 
scale clinical trials. Deuterated internal standards for each analyte were 
crucial to account for variable matrix effects between plasma lots. The 
application of the method to plasma samples, taken from people who had been 
administered oral CBD as part of an open-label trial of CBD effects in anxiety 
disorders, demonstrated its immediate utility in ongoing and upcoming clinical 
trials. The method will prove useful for future studies involving CBD and/or THC 
and can likely accommodate the inclusion of additional metabolites as analytical 
reference materials become commercially available.

© 2020 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/dta.2947
PMID: 33095968 [Indexed for MEDLINE]