[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Propulsion Mechanics | Topic: Space Power Facility | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Space Power Facility — Overview

IEC 61000-4-21 methodologies. As a result of these activities, the SPF is capable of performing radiated susceptibility EMI tests for vehicles and equipment per MIL-STD-461 and able to achieve MIL-STD-461F limits above approximately 80 MHz. In the spring of 2017 the low-power characterizations and calibrations from 2009 and 2011 were proven correct in a series of high-power tests performed in the chamber to validate its capabilities. The SPF chamber is currently being prepared for EMI radiated susceptibility testing of the crew module for the Artemis 1 of NASA's Orion spacecraft. Reverberant Acoustic Test Facility
The Reverberant Acoustic Test Facility has 36 nitrogen-driven horns to simulate the high noise levels that will be experienced during a space vehicle launch and supersonic ascent conditions. The RATF is capable of an overall sound pressure level of 163 dB within a  chamber. Mechanical Vibration Test Facility

The Mechanical Vibration Test Facility (MVF), is a three-axis vibration system. It will apply vibration in each of the three orthogonal axes (not simultaneously) with one direction in parallel to the Earth-launch thrust axis (X) at 5–150 Hz, 0-1.25 g-pk vertical, and 5–150 Hz 0-1.0 g-pk for the horizontal axes. Vertical, or the thrust axis, shaking is accomplished by using 16 vertical actuators manufactured by TEAM Corporation, each capable of . The 16 vertical actuators allow for testing of up to a  article at the previously stated frequency and amplitude limits. Horizontal shaking is accomplished through use of 4 TEAM Corporation Horizontal Actuators. The horizontal actuators are used during Vertical testing to counteract cross axis forces and overturning moments. NASA's Space Power Facility Vibro-Acoustic Construction

Modal Test Facility

In addition to the sine vibe table, a fixed-base Modal floor sufficient for the  diameter test article is available. The fixed based Modal Test Facility is a  thick steel floor on top of  of concrete, that is tied to the earth using  deep tensioned rock anchors. There were over  of rock anchors, and  of concrete used in the construction of the fixed-base modal test facility and mechanical vibration test facility. Assembly Area
The SPF Facility layout is ideal for performing multiple test programs. The facility has two large high bay areas adjacent to either side of the vacuum chamber. The advantage of having both areas available is that it allows for two complex tests to be prepared simultaneously. One test can be prepared in a high bay while another test is being conducted in the vacuum chamber. Large chamber doors provide access to the test chamber from either high bay. NASA's Space Power Facility Vibro-Acoustic Construction

References

External links

 Skylab Shroud in Plum Brook Space Power Facility
 NASA image gallery, featuring the SPF
 Detailed facility capabilities

Aerospace engineering
Glenn Research Center
NASA facilities
Buildings and structures in Erie County, Ohio