[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS neurology | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS neurology]

22. Biol Psychiatry. 2024 Mar 15;95(6):581-591. doi:
10.1016/j.biopsych.2023.07.012.  Epub 2023 Jul 29.

Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation Across the Lifespan: Impact of Developmental 
and Degenerative Processes.

Oberman LM(1), Benussi A(2).

Author information:
(1)National Institute of Mental Health Intramural Research Program, National 
Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland.
(2)Neurology Unit, Department of Clinical and Experimental Sciences, University 
of Brescia, Brescia, Italy. Electronic address: benussialberto@gmail.com.

Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) has emerged as a pivotal noninvasive 
technique for investigating cortical excitability and plasticity across the 
lifespan, offering valuable insights into neurodevelopmental and 
neurodegenerative processes. In this review, we explore the impact of TMS 
applications on our understanding of normal development, healthy aging, 
neurodevelopmental disorders, and adult-onset neurodegenerative diseases. By 
presenting key developmental milestones and age-related changes in TMS measures, 
we provide a foundation for understanding the maturation of neurotransmitter 
systems and the trajectory of cognitive functions throughout the lifespan. 
Building on this foundation, the paper delves into the pathophysiology of 
neurodevelopmental disorders, including autism spectrum disorder, 
attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder, Tourette syndrome, and adolescent 
depression. Highlighting recent findings on altered neurotransmitter circuits 
and dysfunctional cortical plasticity, we underscore the potential of TMS as a 
valuable tool for unraveling underlying mechanisms and informing future 
therapeutic interventions. We also review the emerging role of TMS in 
investigating and treating the most common adult-onset neurodegenerative 
disorders and late-onset depression. By outlining the therapeutic applications 
of noninvasive brain stimulation techniques in these disorders, we discuss the 
growing body of evidence supporting their use as therapeutic tools for symptom 
management and potentially slowing disease progression. The insights gained from 
TMS studies have advanced our understanding of the underlying mechanisms in both 
healthy and disease states, ultimately informing the development of more 
targeted diagnostic and therapeutic strategies for a wide range of 
neuropsychiatric conditions.

Copyright © 2023 Society of Biological Psychiatry. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biopsych.2023.07.012
PMCID: PMC10823041
PMID: 37517703 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: AB is listed as an inventor on issued patents on 
the use of noninvasive brain stimulation for the differential diagnosis of 
dementia and to increase cognitive functions in patients with neurodegenerative 
disorders. LMO reports no biomedical financial interests or potential conflicts 
of interest.