[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: Raman Spectroscopy of Graphene | Type: OpenAlex-OA | Level: Graduate]

[OpenAlex | Materials Science | Year: 2014 | Citations: 163]

Title: Raman Spectroscopy of Graphene

Abstract:
Graphene, a monolayer of carbon atoms packed into a two-dimensional crystal structure, attracted intense attention owing to its unique structure and optical, electronic properties. Raman spectroscopy is a quick and precise method in material science and has been employed for many years to investigate material properties. It can be used to investigate the electronic band structure, the phonon energy dispersion and the electron-phonon interaction in graphene systems. In probing graphene's properties, Raman spectroscopy is considered to be a reliable method. In this review, we highlight recent progress of studying graphene structure using Raman spectroscopy. First, on the basis of systematically analyzing the phonon dispersion of graphene, the typical Raman scattering features of graphene, such as G band, G' band, and D band, and the basic physical process are introduced. Using these Raman fingerprints, we can quickly and directly distinguish the layer thickness of graphene, determine the edge chirality and monitor the type and density of defects in graphene. Second, stacking disorder will significantly modify the optical properties and interlayer coupling stretch of few-layer graphene so that the Raman features of graphene will be strongly influenced not only in the G band intensity but also in the intensity, lineshape and the frequency of G' band. According to the peak position, width, and intensity of the Raman G band and G' band in graphene, we also discuss the influence of doping, substrate, temperature, and strain on the electronic structure of graphene. Finally, we introduce the second order overtone and combination Raman modes and the low frequency Raman feature (shear and layer breathing mode) in graphene, and discuss the dependence of these peaks on the structure of graphene.