[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Complex Circuit Systems | Topic: Photonic integrated circuit | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Photonic integrated circuit — Overview

A photonic integrated circuit (PIC) or integrated optical circuit is a microchip containing two or more photonic components which form a functioning circuit. This technology detects, generates, transports, and processes light. Photonic integrated circuits utilize photons (or particles of light) as opposed to electrons that are utilized by electronic integrated circuits. The major difference between the two is that a photonic integrated circuit provides functions for information signals imposed on optical wavelengths typically in the visible spectrum or near infrared (850–1650 nm). The most commercially utilized material platform for photonic integrated circuits is indium phosphide (InP), which allows for the integration of various optically active and passive functions on the same chip. Initial examples of photonic integrated circuits were simple 2-section distributed Bragg reflector (DBR) lasers, consisting of two independently controlled device sections – a gain section and a DBR mirror section. Consequently, all modern monolithic tunable lasers, widely tunable lasers, externally modulated lasers and transmitters, integrated receivers, etc. are examples of photonic integrated circuits. As of 2012, devices integrate hundreds of functions onto a single chip. Pioneering work in this arena was performed at Bell Laboratories. The most notable academic centers of excellence of photonic integrated circuits in InP are the University of California at Santa Barbara, USA, the Eindhoven University of Technology and the University of Twente in the Netherlands. A 2005 development showed that silicon can, even though it is an indirect bandgap material, still be used to generate laser light via the Raman nonlinearity. Such lasers are not electrically driven but optically driven and therefore still necessitate a further optical pump laser source. History 
Photonics is the science behind the detection, generation, and manipulation of photons. According to quantum mechanics and the concept of wave–particle duality first proposed by Albert Einstein in 1905, light acts as both an electromagnetic wave and a particle. For example, total internal reflection in an optical fibre allows it to act as a waveguide. Integrated circuitss using electrical components were first developed in the late 1940s and early 1950s, but it took until 1958 for them to become commercially available. When the laser and laser diode were invented in the 1960s, the term 'photonics' fell into more common usage to describe the application of light to replace applications previously achieved through the use of electronics. By the 1980s, photonics gained traction through its role in fibre optic communication. At the start of the decade, an assistant in a new research group at Delft University Of Technology, Meint Smit, started pioneering in the field of integrated photonics. He is credited with inventing the Arrayed Waveguide Grating (AWG): a core component of modern digital connections for the Internet and phones. Smit has received several awards, including an ERC Advanced Grant, a Rank Prize for Optoelectronics and a LEOS Technical Achievement Award. Thanks to the pioneering work of both Meint Smit and Ton Backx over the last few decades, the Dutch integrated photonics sector has risen to prominence. Backx has been appointed Knight in the Order of the Netherlands Lion for among others his role in reforming the Department of Electrical Engineering at Eindhoven University of Technology and in founding both the Institute of Photonic Integration and PhotonDelta. In October 2022, during an experiment held at the Technical University of Denmark in Copenhagen, a photonic chip transmitted 1.84 petabits per second of data over a fibre optic cable more than 7.9 kilometres long. First, the data stream was split into 37 sections, each of which was sent down a separate core of the fibre-optic cable. Next, each of these channels was split into 223 parts corresponding to equidistant spikes of light across the spectrum. Comparison to electronic integration 
Unlike electronic integration where silicon is the dominant material, system photonic integrated circuits have been fabricated from a variety of material systems, including electro-optic crystals such as lithium niobate, silica on silicon, silicon on insulator, various polymers and semiconductor materials which are used to make semiconductor lasers such as GaAs and InP. The different material systems are used because they each provide different advantages and limitations depending on the function to be integrated. For instance, silica (silicon dioxide) based PICs have very desirable properties for passive photonic circuits such as AWGs (see below) due to their comparatively low losses and low thermal sensitivity, GaAs or InP based PICs allow the direct integration of light sources and Silicon PICs enable co-integration of the photonics with transistor based electronics. The fabrication techniques are similar to those used in electronic integrated circuits in which photolithography is used to pattern wafers for etching and material deposition.