[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: Liénard–Wiechert potential | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Liénard–Wiechert potential — Overview

the source changes velocity. This second term is connected with electromagnetic radiation. The first term describes near field effects from the charge, and its direction in space is updated with a term that corrects for any constant-velocity motion of the charge on its distant static field, so that the distant static field appears at distance from the charge, with no aberration of light or light-time correction. This term, which corrects for time-retardation delays in the direction of the static field, is required by Lorentz invariance. A charge moving with a constant velocity must appear to a distant observer in exactly the same way as a static charge appears to a moving observer, and in the latter case, the direction of the static field must change instantaneously, with no time-delay. Thus, static fields (the first term) point exactly at the true instantaneous (non-retarded) position of the charged object if its velocity has not changed over the retarded time delay. This is true over any distance separating objects. The second term, however, which contains information about the acceleration and other unique behavior of the charge that cannot be removed by changing the Lorentz frame (inertial reference frame of the observer), is fully dependent for direction on the time-retarded position of the source. Thus, electromagnetic radiation (described by the second term) always appears to come from the direction of the position of the emitting charge at the retarded time. Only this second term describes information transfer about the behavior of the charge, which transfer occurs (radiates from the charge) at the speed of light. At "far" distances (longer than several wavelengths of radiation), the 1/R dependence of this term makes electromagnetic field effects (the value of this field term) more powerful than "static" field effects, which are described by the 1/R2 field of the first (static) term and thus decay more rapidly with distance from the charge. Existence and uniqueness of the retarded time

Existence
The retarded time is not guaranteed to exist in general. For example, if, in a given frame of reference, an electron has just been created, then at this very moment another electron does not yet feel its electromagnetic force at all. However, under certain conditions, there always exists a retarded time. For example, if the source charge has existed for an unlimited amount of time, during which it has always travelled at a speed not exceeding , then there exists a valid retarded time . This can be seen by considering the function . At the present time ; . The derivative  is given by

By the mean value theorem, . By making  sufficiently large, this can become negative, i.e., at some point in the past, . By the intermediate value theorem, there exists an intermediate  with , the defining equation of the retarded time. Intuitively, as the source charge moves back in time, the cross section of its light cone at present time expands faster than it can recede, so eventually it must reach the point . This is not necessarily true if the source charge's speed is allowed to be arbitrarily close to , i.e., if for any given speed  there was some time in the past when the charge was moving at this speed. In this case the cross section of the light cone at present time approaches the point  as the observer travels back in time but does not necessarily ever reach it. Uniqueness
For a given point  and trajectory of the point source , there is at most one value of the retarded time , i.e., one value  such that . This can be realized by assuming that there are two retarded times  and , with . Then,  and . Subtracting gives  by the triangle inequality. Unless , this then implies that the average velocity of the charge between  and  is , which is impossible. The intuitive interpretation is that one can only ever "see" the point source at one location/time at once unless it travels at least at the speed of light to another location. As the source moves forward in time, the cross section of its light cone at present time contracts faster than the source can approach, so it can never intersect the point  again. The conclusion is that, under certain conditions, the retarded time exists and is unique. See also
Maxwell's equations which govern classical electromagnetism
Classical electromagnetism for the larger theory surrounding this analysis
Relativistic electromagnetism
Special relativity, which was a direct consequence of these analyses
Rydberg formula for quantum description of the EM radiation due to atomic orbital electrons
Jefimenko's equations
Larmor formula
Abraham–Lorentz force
Inhomogeneous electromagnetic wave equation
Wheeler–Feynman absorber theory also known as the Wheeler–Feynman time-symmetric theory
Paradox of a charge in a gravitational field
Whitehead's theory of gravitation

References

External links
The Feynman Lectures on Physics Vol. II Ch. 21: Solutions of Maxwell’s Equations with Currents and Charges

Electromagnetic radiation
Potentials