[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: Structure factor | Type: Instruction-QA | Level: Graduate]

Question: Provide a comprehensive expert-level explanation of Structure factor in the context of Applied Sciences.

Answer:
In condensed matter physics and crystallography, the static structure factor (or structure factor for short) is a mathematical description of how a material scatters incident radiation. The structure factor is a critical tool in the interpretation of scattering patterns (interference patterns) obtained in X-ray, electron and neutron diffraction experiments.

Confusingly, there are two different mathematical expressions in use, both called 'structure factor'.  One is usually written ; it is more generally valid, and relates the observed diffracted intensity per atom to that produced by a single scattering unit.  The other is usually written  or  and is only valid for systems with long-range positional order — crystals.  This expression relates the amplitude and phase of the beam diffracted by the  planes of the crystal ( are the Miller indices of the planes) to that produced by a single scattering unit at the vertices of the primitive unit cell.   is not a special case of ;  gives the scattering intensity, but  gives the amplitude. It is the modulus squared  that gives the scattering intensity.  is defined for a perfect crystal, and is used in crystallography, while   is most useful for disordered systems.  For partially ordered systems such as crystalline polymers there is obviously overlap, and experts will switch from one expression to the other as needed.

The static structure factor is measured without resolving the energy of scattered photons/electrons/neutrons. Energy-resolved measurements yield the dynamic structure factor.

Derivation of  
Consider the scattering of a beam of wavelength  by an assembly of  particles or atoms stationary at positions .  Assume that the scattering is weak, so that the amplitude of the incident beam is constant throughout the sample volume (Born approximation), and absorption, refraction and multiple scattering can be neglected (kinematic diffraction).  The direction of any scattered wave is defined by its scattering vector . ,  where  and  ( ) are the scattered and incident beam wavevectors, and  is the angle between them. For elastic scattering,  and , limiting the possible range of  (see Ewald sphere). The amplitude and phase of this scattered wave will be the vector sum of the scattered waves from all the atoms  

For an assembly of atoms,  is the atomic form factor of the -th atom.  The scattered intensity is obtained by multiplying this function by its complex conjugate

The structure factor is defined as this intensity normalized by  

If all the atoms are identical, then Equation () becomes  and  so

Another useful simplification is if the material is isotropic, like a powder or a simple liquid.  In that case, the intensity depends on  and . In three dimensions, Equation () then simplifies to the Debye scattering equation:

An alternative derivation gives good insight, but uses Fourier transforms and convolution.  To be general, consider a scalar (real) quantity  defined in a volume ; this may correspond, for instance, to a mass or charge distribution or to the refractive index of an inhomogeneous medium. If the scalar function is integrable, we can write its Fourier transform as . In the Born approximation the amplitude of the scattered wave corresponding to the scattering vector  is proportional to the Fourier transform . When the system under study is composed of a number  of identical constituents (atoms, molecules, colloidal particles, etc.) each of which has a distribution of mass or charge  then the total distribution can be considered the convolution of this function with a set of delta functions.

with  the particle positions as before.  Using the property that the Fourier transform of a convolution product is simply the product of the Fourier transforms of the two factors, we have , so that:

This is clearly the same as Equation () with all particles identical, except that here  is shown explicitly as a function of .

In general, the particle positions are not fixed and the measurement takes place over a finite exposure time and with a macroscopic sample (much larger than the interparticle distance). The experimentally accessible intensity is thus an averaged one ; we need not specify whether  denotes a time or ensemble average. To take this into account we can rewrite Equation () as:

Perfect crystals
In a crystal, the constitutive particles are arranged periodically, with translational symmetry forming a lattice. The crystal structure can be described as a Bravais lattice with a group of atoms, called the basis, placed at every lattice point; that is, [crystal structure] = [lattice]  [basis]. If the lattice is infinite and completely regular, the system is a perfect crystal.  For such a system, only a set of specific values for  can give scattering, and the scattering amplitude for all other values is zero.  This set of values forms a lattice, called the reciprocal lattice, which is the Fourier transform of the real-space crystal lattice.

In principle the scattering factor  can be used to determine the scattering from a perfect crystal; in the simple case when the basis is a single atom at the origin (and again neglecting all thermal motion, so that there is no need for averaging) all the atoms have identical environments. Equation () can be written as

 and    .

The structure factor is then simply the squared modulus of the Fourier transform of the lattice, and shows the directions in which scattering can have non-zero intensity. At these values of  the wave from every lattice point is in phase. The value of the structure factor is the same for all these reciprocal lattice points, and the intensity varies only due to changes in  with .

Units 
The units of the structure-factor amplitude depend on the incident radiation. For X-ray crystallography they are multiples of the unit of scattering by a single electron (2.82 m); for neutron scattering by atomic nuclei the unit of scattering length of  m is commonly used.

The above disc