[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: Giacinto Cestoni | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Giacinto Cestoni — Overview

coffee and lemongrass. Cestoni believed that chocolate consumption should be balanced. He called it nutritious but bad for the stomach if consumed in large quantities. In his letters, Cestoni indicates that he did not consider chocolate a medicine, but a tasty food that's hard to digest and therefore whoever consumes it in small quantities will be healthy. He recommended health compromised individuals not to take it. Biology 
His main research area was observing insect reproduction, and through his observation with a microscope he eventually discovered the viviparity and parthenogenesis of aphids. Among one of his letters sent to Vallisneri on August 19, 1697, he revealed that he had observed flea's eggs and that from these eggs "lactated white bacherelli" were born which, after two weeks, grew and made a silk thread come out of their mouth. which was used for the construction of the cocoon; the flea grew inside the cocoon and formed completely before exiting. He also observed other insect species including green grasshoppers, scorpions, woodworms, cabbage insects, worms and studied insect galls and discovered galls on oak trees were caused by flies. He also studied the coral and his investigations on coral are found in a study made by G. De Toni. who stated in 1723 that Cestoni had asserted that the coral was nothing but "an insect similar to a small sea oyster or octopus."

Cestoni also studied seaweed, in particular the Posidonia oceanica. He proved that the seaweed possessed seeds and fruits like any other plant. Cestoni was the first to show flowers and fruits of the seaweed, and was the first who observed that sea balls were an aggregate of the fibers of the seaweed conglomerated by the sea waves. Among microorganisms, Cestoni studied infusoria in water and also significantly studied vinegar eels (Anguillula vinegar), which are found in unfiltered vinegar. In some of his letters addressed to Redi, Cestoni discussed with his friend about stones in the stomach of birds and grafts. He correctly deduced that the stones actually helped the birds in digestion. Cestoni experimented with grafting and attempted to transplant the spur of a chicken onto the head of a rooster. Perhaps his most notable work was on the research he did on scabies. He collaborated with a physician from Livorno who was a disciple of Redi, Giovan Cosimo Bonomo. Cestoni and Bonomo described the life history of the itch mite, Sarcoptes Scabiei that causes scabies. Cestoni helped in discovering the link of the mite with scabies. He observed the mite under a microscope uncovering details about the mite's life history, means of infection, and effective vs ineffective treatments. These conclusions were controversial in his day, and opposed by prominent physicians such as Giovanni Maria Lancisi, the Pope's chief physician in Rome, since the established belief was that scabies was caused by an excess of black humour (melaina colè). Cestoni shared his findings with Redi in one of his letters he sent in 1687. Cestoni published six illustrations of the life cycle and discussed the means of transmission to new hosts. Cestoni also wrote to Vallisnieri in 1710 that he, not Bonomo, had discovered that scabies was caused by a mite. Zoology 
Cestoni was interested in studying animals. He studied invertebrates such as arthropods, molluscs, worms and vertebrates. He studied eels, "vinegar eels", "worms" and caterpillars, barnacles, cockroaches, ship mists (lamellibranch mollusc known today as teredine), ants, earthworms, praying mantis, millipedes (myriapods), flies, oysters, fish, lice, bat, green lizard, frog, sea urchin, swallows, toads, salamander, scarab, scolopendra, "flying beetle", "water scorpion", sponges, woodworms, turtle, tapeworms, tarantulas, wasps, vipers, mosquito, ticks, zoophytes. He significantly studied chameleons and his keen interest in it can be seen in the letters he exchanged with his friends. His work on chameleons was also published in his friend Vallisnieri's work "Istoria del Camaleonte affricano, e di varj animali d'Italia". Through systematic direct observations he had managed to draw a precise picture of the animal's habits. He was able to disprove the myth at the time about chameleons that they do not eat and drink and just lived on air. He observed their eating habits and found out that they eat insects including crickets, grasshoppers, butterflies, spiders, white snails, lizards, winged ants. Though he spent a lot of time observing the chameleon he was not able to provide an explanation for the shift in its colors. Vallisneri's research on chameleons was significantly based on observations of Cestoni. Publications 
Most of Cestino's work was published in the works of his friend Vallisnieri. All of his composed work is in Italian. Dell'Origine delle pulci dall'uovo, e del seme dell'alga marina. This small work was published by Vallisnieri, with one of his treatises, in Padua, in 1713, in-4°
 Descrizioni ossia compendio del balsamo Pinelli, Bologna, 1696, in-12
 Istoria della grana del kermès e di un altra nera grana che si trova negli elici delle campagne di Livorno, pag.