[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Propulsion Mechanics | Topic: Computational Flowfield Analysis of a Planetary Entry Vehicl | Type: OpenAlex-OA | Level: Graduate]

[OpenAlex | Propulsion Engineering | Year: 2010 | Citations: 4]

Title: Computational Flowfield Analysis of a Planetary Entry Vehicle

Abstract:
Computational Fluid Dynamics (CFD) analysis represents a key technology within planetary entry vehicle design. Safe landing of vehicles re-entering from space requires, in fact, an accurate understanding of all physical phenomena that take place in the flowfield past the hypersonic vehicle to assess its aerodynamics and aerothermodynamics performance. CFD allows to significantly reduce the number of in-flight and plasma windtunnel (PWT) experimental test campaigns and to account for real-gas flow features, which are difficult to reproduce in ground-test facilities. Flight measurements collected during reentry have demonstrated that real gas effects strongly influence both aerodynamics and aerothermal loads of hypervelocity vehicles. On the other hand, trajectory calculation for atmospheric re-entry involves determination of vehicle aerodynamics and aerothermodynamics. As a consequence, accurate modeling of flow physics, in particular flow chemistry is fundamental to reliably design re-entry vehicles. In this chapter, we stress this point with an application to a capsule-type crew return vehicle (CRV) for the International Space Station (ISS) support servicing. However, high accuracy in modeling flow and chemistry coupling may produce only a small increase in the numerical results accuracy, despite the high modeling efforts and the increased computational cost. So, one must balance the theoretical and computer time effort needed to use a more general and sophisticated model against the expected accuracy of results. The question then arises as to what extent the number of reactions, coefficients, reaction mechanism, etc. influence the flow. To answer this question, a step-by-step numerical investigation has been carried out to examine the influence of the chemical reactions, its mechanisms and kinetics, and of thermal non-equilibrium on the air flows past the CRV, in the framework of a low Earth orbit (LEO) scenario. Two-dimensional axisymmetric and three-dimensional Navier-Stokes computations are performed, for perfect gas and reacting gas mixture in thermal and chemical non-equilibrium, and for several chemical reaction mechanisms. In particular, simulations are computed with different wallsurface boundary conditions: non-catalytic wall (NCW), partially catalytic wall (PCW), fully catalytic wall (FCW) to underline the effect of the heat shield catalyticity on the vehicle aerodynamic heating. The work confirms that high-temperature transport phenomena markedly influence the vehicle flowfield and, in turn, the vehicle aerodynamics and aerothermodynamics, but it also stresses that, with an acceptable loss of results accuracy, we www.intechopen.com Numerical Simulations -Examples and Applications in Computational Fluid Dynamics 124 do not need to use models of such high complexity, and therefore considerable computing time can be saved.