[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: ethnobotany traditional medicine biological activi | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: ethnobotany traditional medicine biological activity]

77. J Pharm Pharmacol. 2014 Oct;66(10):1351-68. doi: 10.1111/jphp.12265. Epub
2014  Apr 30.

A review on ethnobotany, phytochemistry and pharmacology of plant genus 
Caralluma R. Br.

Adnan M(1), Jan S, Mussarat S, Tariq A, Begum S, Afroz A, Shinwari ZK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Botany, Kohat University of Science and Technology, Kohat, 
Pakistan.

OBJECTIVES: Caralluma is a xerophytic genus used as traditional medicine for the 
treatment of diabetes, inflammation, leprosy, obesity and rheumatism. Objectives 
of this review are to establish a relationship between traditional uses and 
scientific studies by critically evaluating the available fragmented literature 
on ethnobotany, pharmacology, phytochemistry and toxicology of genus Caralluma.
KEY FINDINGS: Ethnomedical uses of Caralluma have been recorded from various 
countries such as China, India, Iran and Pakistan for six major classes of 
diseases including diabetes and gastrointestinal disorders. This review 
indicated the efficacy of genus Caralluma in several in vitro and in vivo 
pharmacological properties such as antimicrobial, antioxidant and anticancer 
activity. These bioactivity might be due to the presence of certain classes of 
compounds in genus Caralluma including pregnane glycosides, flavonoid glycosides 
and flavones.
SUMMARY: Traditional uses and scientific evaluation of Caralluma indicates that 
it is one of the most widely used genus in some parts of the world. Further 
studies on the structural activity relationship of some of the isolated compound 
may improve their biological potency as well as scientific exploitation of 
traditional uses of the genus.

© 2014 Royal Pharmaceutical Society.

DOI: 10.1111/jphp.12265
PMID: 24780055 [Indexed for MEDLINE]