[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: Scalable Clean Exfoliation of High‐Quality Few‐Layer Black P | Type: OpenAlex-OA | Level: Graduate]

[OpenAlex | Materials Science | Year: 2015 | Citations: 382]

Title: Scalable Clean Exfoliation of High‐Quality Few‐Layer Black Phosphorus for a Flexible Lithium Ion Battery

Abstract:
Few-layer black phosphorus (BP) nanosheets that are clean and of high quality, are efficiently produced by exfoliating bulk BP crystals, which are prepared by a scalable gas-phase catalytic transformation method in water. They are stable enough in water for further processing and applications. As an example, these BP nanosheets are combined with graphene to give high-performance flexible lithium-ion batteries. Atomically thin black phosphorus (BP) has recently attracted a great deal of interest because of its unique electronic and optical properties and a wide range of promising applications. It has a tunable direct bandgap bridging the energy gap between semimetallic graphene and various large-bandgap transition metal dichalcogenides (TMDCs),1, 2 a high carrier mobility,3 good current saturation characteristics,4 and in-plane anisotropic properties,5 which open up applications for it in electronics and optoelectronics such as high-performance radio-frequency6 and logic transistors,4 near- and mid-infrared photodetectors and modulators,7 mid-infrared polarizers and polarization sensors,8 and plasmonic devices.9 It has also been predicted to have negative Poisson's ratio,10 anomalous elastic properties,11 and high thermoelectric figure of merit.12 In addition, BP is a very promising high-specific-capacity electrode material for lithium ion batteries (LIBs) and sodium ion batteries.13, 14 Mechanical exfoliation of bulk BP was the first method to be developed and is currently still the main method of preparing atomically thin BP sheets that have high structural and electronic quality suitable for fundamental studies as well as electronic and optoelectronic devices, however, the yield is very low. For many important classes of applications, such as battery electrodes, printed electronics, and solar cells, large-scale production of defect-free atomically thin BP in a processable form such as liquid suspensions, inks, or dispersions is urgently required. Very recently, several groups have reported the production of few-layer BP nanosheets in dispersion form by liquid-phase exfoliation of bulk BP in appropriate solvents.15, 16 However, the solvents used for exfoliation have a high boiling point (N-methyl-2-pyrrolidone (NMP), ca. 204 °C; dimethyl formamide (DMF), ca. 153 °C; dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO), ca. 189 °C; N-cyclohexyl-2-pyrrolidone (CHP), ca. 154 °C at 7 mm Hg), so they are difficult to remove when BP nanosheets are processed in films or composites, especially considering the low stability of BP nanosheets. Such solvent residuals cover the surface of BP nanosheets and inevitably limit the utilization of their intrinsic properties in applications. In addition, scalable synthesis of high-quality bulk BP with high efficiency is also challenging, although it is the prerequisite for large-scale production of BP nanosheets. Several methods have been developed for the production of bulk BP, including heating white phosphorus under high pressure,17 transforming white phosphorus in mercury18 or liquid bismuth,19 and transformation of red phosphorus using high-energy mechanical milling at ambient conditions.13 However, these methods either use toxic chemicals or complex apparatuses, or are time-consuming, or only give small BP crystals or BP nanoparticles. Compared to these methods, the recently developed mineralizer-assisted gas-phase transformation method shows a great potential to efficiently produce large-size BP crystals under simple and safe conditions.20, 21 Here, we report the synthesis of centimeter-size bulk BP crystals by an efficient mineralizer-assisted gas-phase transformation method and scalable clean production of few-layer BP nanosheets by exfoliating these BP crystals in water, utilizing the hydrophilic nature of BP. The bulk BP crystals show high purity and high quality, with a mobility of ca. 242 cm2 V−1 s−1 and current on/off ratio of ca. 5000 at room temperature for their few-layer counterparts made by mechanical exfoliation, and can be efficiently exfoliated in water to yield a few-layer BP nanosheet dispersion with high concentration. The BP nanosheets retain the high quality of the bulk crystals, have very high crystallinity, and are free of impurities and stable enough in water for further processing and applications. As an example, we demonstrate the use of these BP nanosheets for paper-like high-performance flexible LIB electrodes by combining them with highly conductive graphene sheets, which show a high specific capacity of 501 mAh g−1, excellent rate capability, and prolonged cycling performance at a current density of 500 mA g−1. The Experimental Section gives details of the synthesis of large-size high-quality BP crystals using the mineralizer-assisted gas-phase transformation method. Figure 1a shows a 3 mm-sized BP crystal, and BP crystals as large as 6 mm can also be obtained (Figure S1, Supporting Information). Energy dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDS) measurements show that the sample is composed of only P element without any other elements being observed (Figure S2, Supporting Information). Atomic absorption spectroscopy (AAS) and inductively coupled plasma atomic emission spectrometry (ICP-AES) measurements further indicate that the purity of the BP crystal is higher than 99.8 at%, and therefore it can be directly used without purification. X-ray diffraction (XRD) measurements confirm that the samples are BP crystals with high crystallinity (Figure 1b). As reported previously, both good crystallinity and high purity are very important for keeping BP stable in air.17 Therefore, our BP crystals show a high thermal stability; they can endure temperatures of as high as ca. 400 °C in air (Figure S3, Supporting Information). To further confirm the high quality of the BP crystals, we fabricated monolayer to few-layer BP flakes by mechanical exfoliation and measured their Raman spectra and electronic transport properties (Figure 1c–f). Atomic force microscopy (AFM) measurements show that each BP flake has uniform thickness and a smooth surface (Figure 1d), indicating that the bulk BP crystals have a well-defined layered structure and can be easily exfoliated. As shown in Figure 1e, all the BP flakes show three Raman peaks between 300 and 500 cm−1: (365 cm−1), B2g (442 cm−1), and (470 cm−1).22 Note that these peaks have small widths of ca. 1.9, 3.1, and 2.5 cm−1, respectively, indicating the high quality of the samples. As previously reported,23 the intensity ratio of the peak to Si peak (ca. 521 cm−1) increases linearly with the thickness for samples less than 15 nm thick (Figure 1e, and Figures S4, S5, Supporting Information), which allows the thickness of the BP flakes to be identified. Figure 1f shows the room temperature transport property of a 10 nm-thick few-layer BP-based field-effect transistor (FET) with a back gate on heavily doped silicon wafer covered with 285 nm SiO2. The extracted field-effect hole mobility can reach 242 cm2 V−1 s−1 with an on/off current ratio of ca. 5 × 103. It is worth noting that this transport property is comparable to those of BP flakes with the same thickness reported so far,3, 4 further confirming the high quality of the bulk BP crystals prepared by the scalable mineralizer-assisted gas-phase transformation method. Similar to graphene oxide, BP sheets are highly hydrophilic, which allows good dispersion in water without the use of any surfactant or solvents such as DMF, NMP, DMSO, or CHP. Therefore, we directly exfoliated bulk BP crystals in water by sonication, which gives a homogeneous BP nanosheet dispersion (Figure 2a).The color of the dispersion changes from light yellow to light black as the concentration is increased. The Tyndall effect was observed in the BP nanosheet dispersion (inset of Figure 2b), indicating the colloidal nature of the dispersion. We further used UV-vis absorption spectroscopy to characterize the dispersion (Figure S6, Supporting Information). It is worth noting that the absorbance divided by cell length (A/l) at wavelength λ = 684 nm shows a perfect linear relationship with the concentration (C) (Figure 2b). This behavior is consistent with the Lambert–Beer law, A/l = αC, yielding an absorption coefficient of α = 2767 L g−1 m−1. Such consistence suggests the good dispersion of BP nanosheets in water. It is well recognized that high-concentration dispersions are highly desirable for various practical applications. We systematically studied the influence of sonication power (Ps), initial BP concentration (Ci), and sonication time (ts) on the concentration of the dispersed BP nanosheets in water. The speed of centrifugation was fixed at 2500 revolutions per minute (rpm). As shown in Figure 2c–e, the concentration of dispersed BP nanosheets increases linearly with increasing Ps and ts. Considering that high sonication power might severely break the P–P bonds, a low Ps no more than 380 W was used in our exfoliation experiments. Compared to other parameters, Ci has a much stronger influence on the concentration of BP nanosheets. The concentration increases more than 17 times when Ci increases from 1 to 6 mg mL−1. BP nanosheet dispersion with a concentration as high as ca. 0.4 mg mL−1 can be obtained for Ci= 6 mg mL−1, Ps = 380 W, and ts = 300 min, which corresponds to a yield of 6.7 wt%. The yield can be further improved to ca. 30 wt% by recycling the sediment 4 times. Figure 2f shows 1 L BP nanosheet dispersion with a concentration of 0.17 mg mL−1. AFM measurements (Figure S7, Supporting Information) indicate that the mean thickness of BP nanosheets is ca. 9.4 nm (corresponding to ca. 18 layers) for a centrifugation speed of 2500 rpm (Figure 2g), while it is reduced to ca. 5.2 nm (corresponding to ca. 10 layers) when the centrifugation speed is increased to 5000 rpm (Figure 2h). We used X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) and XRD to characterize the chemical composition and structure of the original bulk BP crystals and the BP nanosheets obtained. Both samples show a strong BP XPS peak at ca. 130 eV with a very tiny oxidized phosphorus (POx) sub-band (ca. 134 eV), indicating that no strong oxidation occurred during the exfoliation process in water (Figure S8, Supporting Information). The POx sub-band is attributed to weak oxidation of the BP surface in the presence of oxygen. Moreover, both samples show sharp XRD peaks, indicating that the BP nanosheets retain the high crystallinity of the bulk BP crystals (Figure S9, Supporting Information). In addition, it is worth noting that the BP nanosheets show some additional small XRD peaks that are absent in the bulk BP crystals (Figure S9). This suggests that the BP nanosheets are randomly distributed without preferential orientation when they are exfoliated from bulk BP crystals. We further used transmission electron microscopy (TEM) to characterize the detailed crystal structure of the BP nanosheets obtained. As shown in Figure 3a and Figure S10 (Supporting Information), the BP nanosheets are very thin and ca. 200 nm in lateral size (Figure 3a). The lattice constants extracted from the diffraction pattern (inset of Figure 3a) are 3.36 Å and 4.43 Å, which are consistent with those of bulk BP.24 Figure 3b shows a scanning TEM (STEM) high angle annular dark field (HAADF) image of two BP nanosheets. The corresponding EDS elemental mapping (Figure 3c) and EDS spectrum (Figure S11, Supporting Information) show that the nanosheets are composed of uniform P element without obvious O element being detected. High-resolution TEM (HRTEM) images show that the nanosheets are very clean, without visible impurities or defects, and have perfect orthogonally symmetric structure (Figure 3d). These results indicate that the exfoliated BP nanosheets produced by sonication in water retain the high quality of the original bulk BP crystals, which is consistent with the XPS and XRD measurements. Previous studies have shown that the exfoliated BP nanosheets degrade under ambient conditions, reacting in the presence of water or oxygen.25 In particular, it was found that water is predominantly responsible for the degradation process of BP nanosheets. Considering the use of water during our exfoliation process, it is necessary to estimate the stability of our BP nanosheets before further processing and applications. To do this, 1 L of BP nanosheet dispersion was sealed in a glass bottle and the absorbance at λ = 684 nm was recorded as a function of time. It is worth noting that only ca. 10 wt% of the BP nanosheets was dissolved after one week, and still ca. 60 wt% of the nanosheets was left even after eight weeks (Figure S12, Supporting Infomration). These results indicate that our BP nanosheets are stable enough in water for further processing and applications, which is different from the previous observations.25 We suggest that the high stability of our BP nanosheets can be attributed to their intrinsic high crystallinity and high purity, as shown above, as well as the oxygen-isolated measurement conditions. It can be clearly seen from Figure S13 (Supporting Information) that the presence of oxygen can greatly enhance the degradation of BP nanosheets immersed in water. These experimental observations are consistent with recent theoretical calculations,26 which show that water prefers to attach to the surface of BP through hydrogen but does not interact directly with the pristine lattice of BP; however, water will interact with BP once it has been oxidized. Therefore, the BP nanosheet dispersion should be stored in oxygen-isolated containers such as sealed bottles after preparation. The mass production of high-quality clean BP nanosheets opens up the possibility of applications beyond electronic and optoelectronic devices. It is well known that BP is an attractive anode material with an ultrahigh theoretical specific capacity of 2596 mAh g−1 (about 7 times that of the commonly used graphite anode material), which, however, faces many challenges, such as rapid capacity decay owing to the low electrical conductivity and severe volume variation during the lithiation/delithiation processes.13 Considering the excellent electrical conductivity of graphene and the two-dimensional flexible characteristic of both graphene and BP nanosheets,27, 28 we designed layer-structured flexible BP nanosheet–graphene (BP-G) hybrid paper as an anode, which not only the but also a great potential for use in flexible energy devices. In addition, it is worth noting that no current other and conductive are used in this hybrid anode, it is also that the energy density of the electrode can be greatly The hybrid paper was fabricated by of a dispersion of graphene sheets and few-layer BP nanosheets the Experimental The graphene sheets, produced by an have a thickness of less than 10 and a lateral size of these graphene sheets are free of oxygen groups and defects, and have a very high electrical conductivity of ca. As shown in Figure (Supporting Information), the electrical conductivity of the hybrid electrode increases with the of graphene the other to use of the high specific capacity of BP and the mass capacity of the the of graphene sheets should be as low as on the that the conductivity is high Considering the of the electrical conductivity and specific capacity of the hybrid wt% graphene sheets and wt% BP nanosheets used in our to the hybrid As shown in Figure the hybrid paper is and can be through without indicating its great potential for use as an electrode in flexible energy Both the (Figure and images (Figure of the paper show that all the graphene and BP sheets are in a because of their two-dimensional which can be further by TEM observations and EDS elemental mapping (Figure Such good with the excellent electrical conductivity of graphene sheets a rapid electron transport between BP nanosheets. In addition, the very small size of BP nanosheets and the open structure of hybrid to a length of lithium and large The in lateral size (about 10 times that the small BP nanosheets can be by large graphene sheets in the hybrid and their volume can be As a the hybrid paper is to have a greatly improved rate and cycling stability to the BP nanosheets We also to flexible BP hybrid paper (Supporting Information), however, the hybrid paper obtained is very and be from the because the BP are dispersed on the surface of graphene without (Figure Supporting Information). It small during to it (Figure This further the of combining different two-dimensional to form a structure for flexible energy applications. The lithium of the BP and hybrid paper by at a current of mA g−1 as shown in Figure In the two are found and for the hybrid paper which are to the transformation from elemental P to and to In the two at and are which from the for the of and P from In only one at for the BP nanosheet and a for the graphene paper Moreover, the gap between and for BP and paper electrodes are much than for the hybrid paper higher We the BP nanosheets after the first and found that they from to and Supporting Information), which are to those observed in red However, it is worth noting that the BP is still well dispersed and to the graphene without These results confirm that the excellent electrical conductivity of graphene and the good between graphene and BP sheets the of the which can also be by the rate As shown in Figure the hybrid paper electrode a high specific capacity of mAh g−1 at a current density of mA g−1, on the mass of the which is much higher than those of BP nanosheets mAh and paper electrodes mAh on the mass of the electrode and the theoretical capacity of graphite mAh Moreover, this capacity is also much higher than the mAh of the capacity of BP nanosheets × = mAh and graphene × = mAh on their mass ratio in the a effect between graphene and BP nanosheets that the performance (Figure Supporting Information). The capacity is important for practical of a BP the and metal current been with graphene sheets, the capacity and energy density of the hybrid paper mAh and respectively, which are comparable or even to the other reported for high capacity lithium battery the current density is increased to 500 mA g−1 or even 2500 mA g−1, the paper electrode still shows high specific of 501 and mAh g−1, which are comparable to those previously the good of the hybrid paper electrode at high current In the paper electrode to 200 mAh g−1 and the BP nanosheet electrode to function at a current density of 500 mA g−1. Moreover, when the current density is from 2500 mA g−1 back to 500 mA g−1, the electrode its capacity of mAh g−1, indicating the good rate and structural the hybrid paper electrode shows excellent prolonged performance at current at 500 mA g−1 500 it still a capacity of mAh g−1 with an efficiency (Figure This that the capacity is and the capacity decay rate is as low as per which hybrid paper attractive and promising as a high anode material with on the structure the excellent cycling stability and rate of hybrid paper electrode can be attributed to the good between graphene and BP length of lithium large and the of BP by graphene In using a scalable mineralizer-assisted gas-phase transformation we have prepared centimeter-size high-quality BP crystals that show a mobility of ca. 242 cm2 V−1 s−1 and current on/off ratio of ca. 5000 at room temperature for few-layer samples obtained by mechanical these high-quality BP crystals as we the scalable clean production of BP nanosheets by liquid exfoliation in water, utilizing the hydrophilic nature of BP. It was found that the BP crystals can be efficiently exfoliated in water to yield a few-layer BP nanosheet dispersion with a high concentration. Moreover, the BP nanosheets retain the high quality of their bulk crystals, and are free of impurities and stable enough in water for further processing and applications. As an example, we the use of these BP nanosheets for high-performance flexible paper-like LIB electrodes by combining them with highly conductive graphene sheets, which shows a high specific capacity of 501 mAh g−1, excellent rate capability, and prolonged cycling performance at a current density of 500 mA g−1. of BP phosphorus and first sealed in a in length and 15 mm in to a than the sealed was in the of a and to °C 1 being at °C for the was to 500 °C at a rate of °C and to room temperature after being at 500 °C for at 30 the synthesis process, large BP crystals (about on the of the the time we the large BP crystals and with to remove the by water and of BP The BP crystals obtained first to BP and the dispersed in water with an initial concentration of mg mL−1 by sonication = W, for the dispersion for the was and at rpm for 30 the BP nanosheet dispersion was for further structural and LIB applications. The and crystallinity of the large-size BP crystals by 10 and XRD using The purity of the bulk BP crystals was by and The structure of the few-layer BP flakes made by mechanical exfoliation was by optical microscopy using a and Raman spectroscopy using a nm size ca. 1 The thermal stability was measured from 30 °C to °C at a heating rate of 10 °C in air or using a and the electrical properties measured under high at room temperature using a The absorption of BP nanosheet dispersions was measured using a UV-vis absorption The of the few-layer BP nanosheets exfoliated in water measured using AFM The detailed chemical of bulk BP crystals and BP nanosheets by XPS with an W, size 500 using all spectra to the energy of detailed structure was by TEM 200 300 and with two and 60 AFM samples prepared by the BP nanosheet dispersion by on a and TEM samples prepared by directly the BP nanosheet dispersion by of and and The properties of BP and hybrid paper as anode in by a The hybrid paper and paper fabricated by The few-layer BP nanosheet dispersion was first with and at 60 °C in the of the obtained BP nanosheet and few-layer graphene made by the method or few-layer graphene was dispersed in NMP, by W, 60 and being with and at °C in the hybrid paper or paper was from the The obtained hybrid paper or paper was directly used as the anode, and was used as the and electrodes, which by The mass of paper or paper was mg and the capacity was on the mass of the The BP nanosheet electrode was prepared by wt% BP with wt% conductive black as a and 10 wt% dissolved in as a to form a which was a and under at °C for The was a with a of mm and in a at °C for 6 The mass of the electrode was and the of the electrode was in an with the BP nanosheet electrode or paper electrode or hybrid paper and a of 1 in dimethyl and as the measurements at various current a range of to 3 using a battery and to this This was by the of and and the of and As a to our and this by the Such are and be for but are not or from than should be to the The is not responsible for the or of any by the than should be to the corresponding for the