[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: Multiphoton intrapulse interference phase scan | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Multiphoton intrapulse interference phase scan — Overview

second derivative of the unknown phase. After double integration the phase distortions are known. The system then introduces a correction phase to cancel the distortions and achieve shorter pulses. The absolute accuracy of MIIPS improves as the phase distortions diminish, therefore an iterative procedure of measurement and compensation is applied to reduce phase distortions below 0.1 radian for all frequencies within the bandwidth of the laser. When all phase distortions have been eliminated, the pulses have the highest possible peak power, and are considered to be Bandwidth-limited-pulse|transform limited (TL). The MIIPS trace corresponding to TL pulses shows straight parallel lines separated by . Once spectral phase distortions have been eliminated, the shaper can be used to introduce calibrated phases and amplitudes to control laser induced processes. MIIPS technology has been applied successfully in selective excitation of multiphoton imaging and femtosecond light-mass interaction study. Experimental setup

The expanded laser beam reaches the Diffractive grating (G) first, the first-order reflection is deflected to the Mirror (M) and then to the curved mirror (CM). The curved mirror reflects the laser to the spatial light modulator (SLM). The phases are applied through the SLM to each component of the frequency. The laser is then retro-reflected. By using a nonlinear medium, the nonlinear (SHG, THG, etc.) spectra vs. the phase scan can be recorded as a MIIPS trace for the characterization of the pulse. Once the pulse is characterized, a compensatory phase can be applied to the ultrashort pulse through the SLM. Other ultrashort pulse measurement techniques
Frequency-resolved Optical Gating (FROG)
Spectral phase interferometry for direct electric-field reconstruction (SPIDER)

References
 M. Dantus, V. V. Lozovoy, and I. Pastirk, "Measurement and Repair: The femtosecond Wheatstone Bridge." OE Magazine 9 (2003). V. V. Lozovoy, I. Pastirk, and M. Dantus, "Multiphoton intrapulse interference 4: Characterization and compensation of the spectral phase of ultrashort laser pulses." Optics Letters 29, 775-777 (2004). B. Xu, J. M. Gunn, J. M. Dela Cruz, V. V. Lozovoy, M. Dantus, “Quantitative investigation of the MIIPS method for phase measurement and compensation of femtosecond laser pulses,” J. Optical Society of America B 23, 750-759 (2006). Nonlinear optics