[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: phytotherapy systematic review clinical evidence | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: phytotherapy systematic review clinical evidence]

91. J Med Food. 2012 Jul;15(7):589-97. doi: 10.1089/jmf.2011.1982. Epub 2012 May
21.

Efficacy and safety of mixed oriental herbal medicines for treating human 
obesity: a systematic review of randomized clinical trials.

Park JH(1), Lee MJ, Song MY, Bose S, Shin BC, Kim HJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oriental Rehabilitation, Kangnam Korean Hospital, Kyung Hee 
University, Seoul, Korea.

The objective of this systematic review was to assess the evidence from rigorous 
clinical trials evaluating the efficacy of mixed herbal medicine formulations 
used in traditional Oriental medicines for the treatment of obesity and to 
describe the safety and types of adverse events reported in such trials. To 
accomplish this, 14 databases were searched from inception to July 31, 2009. The 
search terms used were "obesity" or "obese" and "herb," "herbal," or "herbal 
medicine" without language restriction. All randomized clinical trials using 
mixed herbal medicines on obese or overweight subjects were considered for 
inclusion. Of the publications in the identified databases, 1144 results were 
searched and reviewed, and in total 12 studies were included. Their 
methodological quality was assessed using the Jadad score. The results of our 
review provide evidence suggesting that mixed Oriental herbal medicines may be 
safe and effective for the treatment of obesity when compared with conventional 
medicine, placebos, or lifestyle control. Many trials also reported improved 
concomitant conditions including impaired glucose tolerance, hypertension, and 
inflammation. Small numbers of adverse events were reported, but most were mild 
or not related to the intervention in itself. No significant mortality was 
observed in any of the trials. However, the evidence provided by the trials 
reviewed is not fully convincing because of their poor methodological quality. 
Therefore, more research and well-designed clinical trials are necessary to 
address these issues, as well as to assess the safety of mixed Oriental herbal 
medicines used to treat obesity.

DOI: 10.1089/jmf.2011.1982
PMID: 22612295 [Indexed for MEDLINE]