[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: laser surgery LASIK corneal refractive outcome | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: laser surgery LASIK corneal refractive outcome]

55. Asia Pac J Ophthalmol (Phila). 2019 Sep-Oct;8(5):377-384. doi: 
10.1097/APO.0000000000000258.

Comparing Patient-Reported Outcomes of Laser In Situ Keratomileusis and 
Small-Incision Lenticule Extraction: A Review.

Chiam NPY(1), Mehta JS(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Singapore National Eye Centre, Singapore.
(2)Singapore Eye Research Institute, Singapore.

PURPOSE: Laser in situ keratomileusis (LASIK) and small-incision lenticule 
extraction (SMILE) are popular refractive surgeries. The objective refractive 
outcomes of LASIK and SMILE have been studied extensively; both procedures have 
comparable safety, efficacy, and predictability. However, owing to various 
psychosocial factors, refractive patients may report dissatisfaction despite 
good postoperative vision. Hence the importance of studies on subjective 
patient-reported outcomes. This review discusses the role of 
psychometric-technique-based validated questionnaires when evaluating subjective 
outcomes. It also summarizes the literature on patient-reported outcomes for 
LASIK and SMILE.
DESIGN: A literature search was performed on PubMed database to identify studies 
that have assessed patient-reported outcomes for LASIK and SMILE.
RESULTS: Several studies have looked into patient-reported outcome measures for 
LASIK, but the number of equivalent studies for SMILE is limited. Questionnaires 
(validated and non-validated) are used to evaluate patient-reported outcomes. 
Validated questionnaires are designed based on psychometric techniques, such as 
Classic Test Theory, Item Response Theory, and Rasch analysis. The Quality of 
Life Impact of Refractive Correction (QIRC) questionnaire, a validated 
questionnaire administered to both LASIK and SMILE patients, suggests that both 
groups have comparable vision-related quality of life in the first few months 
postoperatively; but SMILE might confer a slight advantage in the later 
postoperative period (postoperative month 6).
CONCLUSIONS: Future LASIK-SMILE comparative studies utilizing standardized 
validated questionnaires for patient-reported outcome measures with longer 
follow-up durations would be a welcome contribution to this important aspect of 
refractive surgery.

DOI: 10.1097/APO.0000000000000258
PMCID: PMC6784778
PMID: 31478935 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors do not have any conflicts of 
interest to disclose.