[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: graphene biomedical applications toxicity review | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: graphene biomedical applications toxicity review]

99. Environ Res. 2024 Dec 1;262(Pt 2):119933. doi: 10.1016/j.envres.2024.119933. 
Epub 2024 Sep 13.

Engineering carbon-based nanomaterials for the delivery of platinum compounds: 
An innovative cancer disarming frontier.

Rahchamandi SYR(1), Mirhadi E(2), Gheybi F(3), Kazemi-Beydokhti A(4), Jaafari 
MR(5), Mostafavi E(6), Kesharwani P(7), Sahebkar A(8), Alavizadeh SH(9).

Author information:
(1)Nanotechnology Research Center, Pharmaceutical Technology Institute, Mashhad 
University of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran; Student Research Committee, 
Mashhad University of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran.
(2)Nanotechnology Research Center, Pharmaceutical Technology Institute, Mashhad 
University of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran.
(3)Nanotechnology Research Center, Pharmaceutical Technology Institute, Mashhad 
University of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran; Department of Medical 
Biotechnology and Nanotechnology, Faculty of Medicine, Mashhad University of 
Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran.
(4)Department of Chemical Engineering, School of Petroleum and Petrochemical 
Engineering, Hakim Sabzevari University, Sabzevar, Iran.
(5)Nanotechnology Research Center, Pharmaceutical Technology Institute, Mashhad 
University of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran; Department of Pharmaceutical 
Nanotechnology, School of Pharmacy, Mashhad University of Medical Sciences, 
Mashhad, Iran.
(6)Department of Medicine, Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford, CA, 
94305, USA.
(7)Department of Pharmaceutics, School of Pharmaceutical Education and Research, 
Jamia Hamdard, New Delhi, 110062, India. Electronic address: 
prashantdops@gmail.com.
(8)Center for Global Health Research, Saveetha Medical College and Hospitals, 
Saveetha Institute of Medical and Technical Sciences, Saveetha University, 
Chennai, India; Biotechnology Research Center, Pharmaceutical Technology 
Institute, Mashhad University of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran; Applied 
Biomedical Research Center, Mashhad University of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, 
Iran. Electronic address: amir_saheb2000@yahoo.com.
(9)Nanotechnology Research Center, Pharmaceutical Technology Institute, Mashhad 
University of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran; Department of Pharmaceutical 
Nanotechnology, School of Pharmacy, Mashhad University of Medical Sciences, 
Mashhad, Iran. Electronic address: alavizadehh@mums.ac.ir.

Carbon-based nanomaterials have been frequently used as one of the most advanced 
and fascinating nanocarriers for drug delivery applications due to their unique 
physicochemical properties. Varying types of carbon nanomaterials (CNMs) 
including carbon nanotubes, graphene, graphene oxides, carbon nanohorns, 
fullerenes, carbon nanodots, and carbon nanodiamonds are promising candidates 
for designing novel systems to deliver platinum compounds. CNMs modification 
with various moieties renders vast bio-applications in the area of targeted and 
organelle-specific cancer therapy. This review featured an updated and concise 
summarizations of various types of CNMs, their synthesis, advantages and 
disadvantages including potential bio-toxicity for biomedical applications. The 
therapeutic utility of CNMs and their efficacy have been noticed and for the 
first time, this review addressed CNMs-focused applications on the delivery of 
platinum-derivatives to the cancer site. Collectively, the contents of this 
review will assist researchers to focus on the possible fabrication, 
bio-functionalization and designing methods of CNMs to the further development 
of their future biomedical implementations.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.envres.2024.119933
PMID: 39278586 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.