[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: nanoparticle drug delivery tumor targeting cancer | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: nanoparticle drug delivery tumor targeting cancer]

92. Adv Drug Deliv Rev. 2022 Apr;183:114177. doi: 10.1016/j.addr.2022.114177.
Epub  2022 Mar 1.

Tumor-activated carrier-free prodrug nanoparticles for targeted cancer 
Immunotherapy: Preclinical evidence for safe and effective drug delivery.

Kyu Shim M(1), Yang S(2), Sun IC(3), Kim K(4).

Author information:
(1)Biomedical Research Institute, Korea Institute of Science and Technology 
(KIST), Seoul, 02792, Republic of Korea.
(2)Biomedical Research Institute, Korea Institute of Science and Technology 
(KIST), Seoul, 02792, Republic of Korea; KU-KIST Graduate School of Converging 
Science and Technology, Korea University, Seoul 02841, Republic of Korea.
(3)Biomedical Research Institute, Korea Institute of Science and Technology 
(KIST), Seoul, 02792, Republic of Korea. Electronic address: pfesun@kist.re.kr.
(4)Biomedical Research Institute, Korea Institute of Science and Technology 
(KIST), Seoul, 02792, Republic of Korea; KU-KIST Graduate School of Converging 
Science and Technology, Korea University, Seoul 02841, Republic of Korea. 
Electronic address: kim@kist.re.kr.

As immunogenic cell death (ICD) inducers initiating antitumor immune responses, 
certain chemotherapeutic drugs have shown considerable potential to reverse the 
immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment (ITM) into immune-responsive tumors. 
The application of these drugs in nanomedicine provides a more enhanced 
therapeutic index by improving unfavorable pharmacokinetic (PK) profiles and 
inefficient tumor targeting. However, the clinical translation of conventional 
nanoparticles is restricted by fundamental problems, such as risks of 
immunogenicity and potential toxicity by carrier materials, premature drug 
leakage in off-target sites during circulation, low drug loading contents, and 
complex structure and synthetic processes that hinder quality control (QC) and 
scale-up industrial production. To address these limitations, tumor-activated 
carrier-free prodrug nanoparticles (PDNPs), constructed only by the 
self-assembly of prodrugs without any additional carrier materials, have been 
widely investigated with distinct advantages for safe and more effective drug 
delivery. In addition, combination immunotherapy based on PDNPs with other 
diverse modalities has efficiently reversed the ITM to immune-responsive tumors, 
potentiating the response to immune checkpoint blockade (ICB) therapy. In this 
review, the trends and advances in PDNPs are outlined, and each self-assembly 
mechanism is discussed. In addition, various combination immunotherapies based 
on PDNPs are reviewed. Finally, a physical tumor microenvironment remodeling 
strategy to maximize the potential of PDNPs, and key considerations for clinical 
translation are highlighted.

Copyright © 2022 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.addr.2022.114177
PMID: 35245568 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.