[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: Thin-film bulk acoustic resonator | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Thin-film bulk acoustic resonator — Overview

discharge (ESD) tolerance is needed. Frequencies more than 1.5–2.5 GHz are well-suited for FBAR devices. FBARs on a silicon substrate can be manufactured in high volumes and the manufacturing is supported by all development of semiconductor device fabrication methods. Future requirements of new applications like filtering bandwidth with steep stopband attenuation and lowest possible insertion loss have effects on resonator performance and show development steps needed. FBARs can also be used in oscillators and synchronizers to replace a crystal/crystals in applications where frequencies more than 100 MHz and/or very low jitter is one of the performance targets. FBARs can also be used as sensors. For instance, when a FBAR device is put under mechanical pressure its resonance frequency will shift. Sensing of humidity and volatile organic compounds (VOCs) are demonstrated by using FBARs. A tactile sensor array may also consist of FBAR devices, and gravimetric or mass sensing can be based on FBAR resonators. As discrete components FBAR technology based parts like basic resonators and filters are packaged in miniaturised/small form factor like wafer level packages. FBARs can also be integrated with power amplifiers (PA) or low noise amplifiers (LNA) to form a module solution with the related electronic circuitry. Although monolithic integrated of FBARs on the same substrate with the electronic circuitry like CMOS has been demonstrated it requires several additional process steps and mask layers on top of IC technology increasing the cost of the solution. Therefore monolithic solutions have not been progressed as much as module solutions in commercial applications. Typical module solutions are a power amplifier-duplexer module (PAD), or a low-noise amplifier (LNA)-filter module where  and the related circuitry are packaged in the same package possibly on a separate module substrate. FBARs can be integrated in complex communication like SimpleLink modules for avoiding area/space requirements of an external, packaged crystal. Therefore FBAR technology has a key role in electronics miniaturisation specifically in applications where oscillators and precise high performance filters are needed. Historical and industrial landscape

Resonators and filters/duplexers 
The use of piezoelectric materials in electronics began in the early 1960s at Bell Telephone Laboratories/Bell Labs, where piezoelectric crystals were developed and used as resonators in applications like oscillators with frequencies up to 100 MHz. Thinning was applied for increasing the resonance frequency of the crystals. However there were limitations of the thinning of crystals and new methods of thin film manufacturing were applied in the early 1970s for increasing accuracy of resonance frequency and targeting increasing manufacturing volumes. TFR Technologies Inc., founded in 1989, was one of the pioneering companies in the field of FBAR resonators and filters mostly for space and military applications. The first products were delivered to customers in 1997. TFR Technologies Inc. was in 2005 acquired by TriQuint Semiconductor Inc. In early 2015, RF Micro Devices (RFMD), Inc. and TriQuint Semiconductor, Inc. announced a merger to form Qorvo active providing FBAR-based products. HP Laboratories started a project on FBARs in 1993 concentrating in free-standing resonators and filters. In 1999 FBAR activity became part of Agilent Technologies Inc., which in 2001 delivered 25,000 FBAR duplexers for N-CDMA phones. Later in 2005, FBAR activity at Agilent was one of the technologies of Avago Technologies Ltd., which acquired Broadcom Corporation in 2015. In 2016 Avago Technologies Ltd. changed its name to Broadcom Inc., currently active in providing FBAR-based products. Infineon Technologies AG started to work with SMR-FBARs in 1999, concentrating in telecommunication filters for mobile applications. The first product was delivered to Nokia Mobile Phones Ltd, which launched the first SMR-FBAR-based GSM three-band mobile phone product in 2001. Infineon's FBAR (BAW) filter group was acquired by Avago Technologies Ltd 2008 which later became part of Broadcom as described before. After acquiring Panasonic's filtering business in 2016 Skyworks Solutions became one of the major players in BAW/FBAR devices additionally to Broadcom and Qorvo. Additionally after acquiring rest of RF360 Holdings in 2019 Qualcomm and Kyocera are offering thin film resonator based products like RFFE modules and separate filters. Still many companies like Akoustis Technologies, Inc. (founded in 2014), Texas Instruments (TI), several universities and research institutes are offering and studying to improve FBAR technology, its performance, manufacturing, advancing design capabilities of FBARs and exploring new application areas jointly with system manufacturers and companies providing simulation tools (Ansys, Comsol Multiphysics, and Resonant Inc. etc.). Thin film resonator based sensors 
Because thin film resonators can replace crystals in sensoring, the most potential application area for FBAR resonators is similar to area for the quartz crystal microbalance (QCM).