[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: Biomaterial Scaffold Fabrication Techniques for Potential Ti | Type: OpenAlex-OA | Level: Graduate]

[OpenAlex | Materials Science | Year: 2010 | Citations: 183]

Title: Biomaterial Scaffold Fabrication Techniques for Potential Tissue Engineering Applications

Abstract:
Scaffolds are used to provide sites for cells attachment, proliferation, differentiation and migration by up regulating and down regulating the synthesis of protein and growth factors. They provide mechanical support, deliver inductive molecules or cells to the repair site. Scaffolds also provide cues to control the structure and function of newly formed tissue. Recently decellularized extracellular matrix has been suggested as a scaffold for heart valve tissue engineering or direct implantation. However, cell removal damages the physical and biochemical properties of the valve leaflet structure. Matrix /polymer hybrid scaffold with improved biomechanical characteristics may be advantageous for many tissue engineering aspects such as heart valve tissue engineering (Hao et al., 2008). Equilibrium is needed between highly porous scaffolds that allow rapid tissue ingrowths and minimize diffusion limitations and less porous materials that retain both construct shape and the ability to bear mechanical loads in a complex biochemical and mechanical environment. The incorporation of the bioactive molecules like the growth factor, enzymes, ECM proteins, DNA is another vital consideration while designing the scaffolds. The fabrication methodologies that do not inactivate the biological activity of the bioactive molecule within the scaffolds need to be used judiciously. Scaffolds can be made by different types of fabrication techniques. The fabrication techniques provide the regular architectures; allow mechanical and finite element analyses to be carried out, which permit quantification of suitable mechanical and chemical microenvironments for cells and tissues assisting in the development of the next generation of tissue engineered scaffolds. The fabrication technique for the tissue engineered scaffold is directly related to the bulk and surface properties of the polymer and the proposed function of the scaffold. While each technique has its inherent merits and demerits, the appropriate selection of the methodologies must satisfy the requirements of the specific tissue to be repaired or engineered. Another hindrance in the tissue engineering research and scaffold design is the ignorance of the researchers on the possible interactions that exists between different cell types, such as the communication between the scaffold and the cells seeded within, cells and the different soluble factors, the typical behaviour of cells under the physical forces (shear, compression and vibration forces) The different techniques are developed to improve the current scaffold design by controlling the regular pore size, pore interconnectivity, porosity and pore characterizations that is suitable for rapid nutrient diffusion and cell attachment. Table 1 shows the most commonly used scaffolds fabrication technologies for potential tissue engineering applications indicating their merits and demerits of each technique. Some references given below in this chapter allow interested readers to go through the detail of fabrication techniques. Recent advances in both computational topology design (CTD) and solid free-form fabrication (SFF) have made it possible to create scaffolds with controlled architecture (Hollister, 2005). Finally, future directions are utilization of modelled scaffolds with in vivo experimentation to optimize tissue-engineering treatments, and coupling scaffolds with cells, genes and proteins optimized to create smart scaffolds for tissue regeneration and controlling their delivery through the scaffold with spatial and temporal resolution.