[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: Podosphaera macularis | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Podosphaera macularis — Overview

Since the life cycle mainly exists externally, with only haustoria inside the host, supra-optimal temperatures and low relative humidity are unfavorable parameters for germination, infection or sporulation of powdery mildew. Temperatures exceeding 30 °C for more than three hours reduce the chance of infection by up to 50%. Intense rain and wind periods that cause spores blown throughout the hop yard also prevent powdery mildew fecundity. In addition, solar irradiation can kill released spores, but as hops grow, the sun can't penetrate the dense canopy. Management

The two primary ways to control Podosphaera macularis are cultural and chemical control. The most effective way to manage hop powdery mildew is through preventative measures. Cultural control of the disease include growing powdery-mildew tolerant/resistant varieties of the host plant. Cultural practices that can help prevent the disease include carefully monitoring water and nutrient, reducing initial inoculum, and removing basal growth. Furthermore, pruning, crowning, and/or scratching will aid in further reduction of the disease. Pruning consists of removing shoots before training. Crowning refers to the process of removing the top 1–2 inches of the crown before budbreak. Scratching is done through disturbing the soil surface to remove the top 1–2 inches of buds. All of these methods disturb the overwintering stage of the life cycle of Podosphaera macularis. Likewise, chemical control primarily consists of spraying fungicides in hopes of preventing the disease through the use of early, continuous spraying during the growing season. Thus, prophylactic fungicide programs can be a very effective way in preventing the disease. Since the fungicides are a preventative measure, they are not very useful to use during a full-blown infection. Therefore, the use of fungicides disturbs release of spores and further infection within the disease cycle of Podosphaera macularis. As there are several fungicides that are effective against powdery mildew, it is important to apply the fungicides at specific times. If it is known that powdery mildew is present, spray programs should be started as soon as the shoots emerge. Due to powdery mildew's ability to quickly develop resistance to fungicides, it is important to rotate the fungicides that are used. However, few or no fungicide applications should be used during burr development as these burrs have increased vulnerability to damage. In this case, removing basal growth before flowering and applying a protectant fungicide with long-term residual action should be employed. Disease importance
In 1997, hop powdery mildew was reported for the first time in hop yards in the United States Pacific Northwest. In Washington, severe infections lead to a yield loss of 800 hectares (US $10 million) of crops. At the time, sulfur was the only registered pesticide used on hop that was effective against powdery mildew. In 1998, the disease was confirmed in Idaho and Oregon. As a result, Yakima Valley growers managed the disease using approaches developed in Europe, such as, labor-intensive cultural practices, mechanical or chemical removal of spring growth, and intensive fungicide programs despite the small number of fungicides available for hop at the time. Although the methods successfully limited disease development, the depressed market for hops couldn't sustain the expensive production costs ($1400/ha annually in 1998). In 2001, a contracting brewery rejected 50% of an aroma hop grown in Oregon because of cone browning after drying, resulting in an additional US $5 million in losses that year. These losses have contributed to economic depression in the hop market and have forced several growers to declare bankruptcy. Currently, hop powdery mildew exists annually in all production regions in the United States. While more research is necessary to understand Podosphaera macularis and control, the current management system has returned economics to hop industry. Disease levels have decreased and control costs have been reduced to $740/ha on average. Unlike New York and California, hop production in the Pacific Northwest is likely to continue. Pathogenesis of Podosphaera macularis

In order for pathogenesis to occur, a viable pathogen, susceptible host, and conducive environment must simultaneously be present. The germ tube of P. macularis plays an important role in determining the pathogen's viability, because it can penetrate its host in approximately 15 hours. The germ tube begins branching, leading to as many as three potentially conidia-forming germ tubes. As the pathogen invades host tissue, it establishes a haustorium to facilitate the collection of nutrients from the host cells. Despite this invasion, only certain hosts are susceptible, because there are seven R genes in hop varieties that can be activated in response to infection. Many of them operate by either causing the initial haustorium to lyse, or by preventing the pathogen from spreading.