[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: Electromagnetic hypersensitivity | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Electromagnetic hypersensitivity — Overview

radiation from his neighbor's cordless telephones, dimmer switches, chargers, Wi-Fi and other devices. The plaintiff brought the testimony of his doctor, who also believed she had EHS, and a person who represented himself as a neurotoxicologist; the judge found none of their testimony credible. In 2015, parents of a boy at a school in Southborough, Massachusetts alleged that the school's Wi-Fi was making the boy sick. In November 2015, a depressed teenage girl in England died by suicide. This act was attributed to EHS by her parents and taken up by tabloids and EHS advocates. The public position of the EU's Scientific Committee on Emerging and Newly Identified Health Risks (SCENIHR) to the European Commission is that "new improved studies on the association between radio frequency fields from broadcast transmitters and childhood cancer provide evidence against such an association." However, "data on the health effects of intermediate frequency fields used, for example, in metal detectors or anti-theft devices in shops, are still lacking." The SCENIHR called for research to be continued. Some people who feel they are sensitive to electromagnetic fields self-treat by trying to reduce their exposure to electromagnetic sources by avoiding sources of exposure, disconnecting or removing electrical devices, shielding or screening of self or residence, and alternative medicine. In Sweden, some municipalities provide disability grants to people who claim to have EHS in order to have abatement work done in their homes even though the public health authority does not recognize EHS as an actual medical condition; towns in Halland do not provide such funds and this decision was challenged and upheld in court. The United States National Radio Quiet Zone is an area where wireless signals are restricted for scientific research purposes, and some people who believe they have EHS have relocated there seeking relief. Gro Harlem Brundtland, former prime minister of Norway and Director general of the World Health Organization, claims to have EHS. In 2015, she said that she had been sensitive for 25 years. The 2022 documentary Electric Malady examines the life of a Swedish man called William who claims to have EHS. The crime drama television series Better Call Saul, the prequel to Breaking Bad, features the character Chuck McGill, who experiences EHS. See also

 Wireless electronic devices and health
 Electromagnetic radiation and health
 Bioelectromagnetics – the study of the interaction between electromagnetic fields and biological entities
 Microwave auditory effect
 List of questionable diseases
 Radiophobia – the fear of ionizing radiation and radio (RF) waves, originating in the early 1900s
 Arthur Firstenberg – author, "EHS sufferer" and activist
 Tinfoil hat – a popular stereotype and byword for paranoia, persecutory delusions, pseudoscience and conspiracy theories

References

External links 
 Radiofrequency Electromagnetic Energy and Health: Research Needs from the Australian Radiation Protection and Nuclear Safety Agency (ARPANSA) (Technical Report 178 – published June 2017)

Alternative diagnoses
Pseudoscience
Somatic psychology