[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: Zero field NMR | Type: Instruction-QA | Level: Graduate]

Question: Provide a comprehensive expert-level explanation of Zero field NMR in the context of Applied Sciences.

Answer:
Zero- to ultralow-field (ZULF) NMR is the acquisition of nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectra of chemicals with magnetically active nuclei (spins 1/2 and greater) in an environment carefully screened from magnetic fields (including from the Earth's field). ZULF NMR experiments typically involve the use of passive or active shielding to attenuate Earth’s magnetic field. This is in contrast to the majority of NMR experiments which are performed in high magnetic fields provided by superconducting magnets. In ZULF experiments the dominant interactions are nuclear spin-spin couplings, and the coupling between spins and the external magnetic field is a perturbation to this. There are a number of advantages to operating in this regime: magnetic-susceptibility-induced line broadening is attenuated which reduces inhomogeneous broadening of the spectral lines for samples in heterogeneous environments. Another advantage is that the low frequency signals readily pass through conductive materials such as metals due to the increased skin depth; this is not the case for high-field NMR for which the sample containers are usually made of glass, quartz or ceramic.

High-field NMR employs inductive detectors to pick up the radiofrequency signals, but this would be inefficient in ZULF NMR experiments since the signal frequencies are typically much lower (on the order of hertz to kilohertz). The development of highly sensitive magnetic sensors in the early 2000s including SQUIDs, magnetoresistive sensors, and SERF atomic magnetometers made it possible to detect NMR signals directly in the ZULF regime. Previous ZULF NMR experiments relied on indirect detection where the sample had to be shuttled from the shielded ZULF environment into a high magnetic field for detection with a conventional inductive pick-up coil. One successful implementation was using atomic magnetometers at zero magnetic field working with rubidium vapor cells to detect zero-field NMR.

Without a large magnetic field to induce nuclear spin polarization, the nuclear spins must be polarized externally using hyperpolarization techniques. This can be as simple as polarizing the spins in a magnetic field followed by shuttling to the ZULF region for signal acquisition, and alternative chemistry-based hyperpolarization techniques can also be used.

It is sometimes but inaccurately referred to as nuclear quadrupole resonance (NQR).

Zero-field NMR experiments

Spin Hamiltonians
Free evolution of nuclear spins is governed by a Hamiltonian (), which in the case of liquid-state nuclear magnetic resonance may be split into two major terms. The first term () corresponds to the Zeeman interaction between spins and the external magnetic field, which includes chemical shift (). The second term () corresponds to the indirect spin-spin, or J-coupling, interaction.

, where:

, and

.

Here the summation is taken over the whole system of coupled spins;  denotes the reduced Planck constant;  denotes the gyromagnetic ratio of spin a;  denotes the isotropic part of the chemical shift for the a-th spin;  denotes the spin operator of the a-th spin;  is the external magnetic field experienced by all considered spins, and;  is the J-coupling constant between spins a and b.

Importantly, the relative strength of  and  (and therefore the spin dynamics behavior of such a system) depends on the magnetic field. For example, in conventional NMR,  is typically larger than 1 T, so the Larmor frequency  of 1H exceeds tens of MHz. This is much larger than -coupling values which are typically Hz to hundreds of Hz. In this limit,  is a perturbation to . In contrast, at nanotesla fields, Larmor frequencies can be much smaller than -couplings, and  dominates.

Polarization
Before signals can be detected in a ZULF NMR experiment, it is first necessary to polarize the nuclear spin ensemble, since the signal is proportional to the nuclear spin magnetization. There are a number of methods to generate nuclear spin polarization. The most common is to allow the spins to thermally equilibrate in a magnetic field, and the nuclear spin alignment with the magnetic field due to the Zeeman interaction leads to weak spin polarization. The polarization generated in this way is on the order of 10−6 for tesla field-strengths.

An alternative approach is to use hyperpolarization techniques, which are chemical and physical methods to generate nuclear spin polarization. Examples include parahydrogen-induced polarization, spin-exchange optical pumping of noble gas atoms, dissolution dynamic nuclear polarization, and chemically-induced dynamic nuclear polarization.

Excitation and spin manipulation
NMR experiments require creating a transient non-stationary state of the spin system. In conventional high-field experiments, radio frequency pulses tilt the magnetization from along the main magnetic field direction to the transverse plan. Once in the transverse plan, the magnetization is no longer in a stationary state (or eigenstate) and so it begins to precess about the main magnetic field creating a detectable oscillating magnetic field.

In ZULF experiments, constant magnetic field pulses are used to induce non-stationary states of the spin system. The two main strategies consist of (1) switching of the magnetic field from pseudo-high field to zero (or ultra-low) field, or (2) of ramping down the magnetic field experienced by the spins to zero field in order to convert the Zeeman populations into zero-field eigenstates adiabatically and subsequently in applying a constant magnetic field pulse to induce a coherence between the zero-field eigenstates. In the simple case of a heteronuclear pair of J-coupled spins, both these excitation schemes induce a transition between the singlet and triplet-0 states, which generates a detectable oscillatory magnetic field.
More sophisticated pulse sequences have been reported including selective pulses, two-dimensional experiments and decoupling schemes.

Signal