[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: traditional Chinese medicine herbs mechanism actio | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: traditional Chinese medicine herbs mechanism action]

23. J Ethnopharmacol. 2016 Aug 2;189:61-80. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2016.05.025. Epub 
2016 May 11.

Traditional Chinese medicine formulas for the treatment of osteoporosis: 
Implication for antiosteoporotic drug discovery.

Zhang ND(1), Han T(1), Huang BK(1), Rahman K(2), Jiang YP(1), Xu HT(1), Qin 
LP(1), Xin HL(3), Zhang QY(4), Li YM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacognosy, School of Pharmacy, Second Military Medical 
University, Shanghai 200433, China.
(2)Faculty of Science, School of Pharmacy and Biomolecular Sciences, Liverpool 
John Moores University, Byrom Street, LiverpoolL3 3AF, UK.
(3)Department of Pharmacognosy, School of Pharmacy, Second Military Medical 
University, Shanghai 200433, China. Electronic address: hailiangxin@163.com.
(4)Department of Pharmacognosy, School of Pharmacy, Second Military Medical 
University, Shanghai 200433, China. Electronic address: zqy1965@163.com.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Osteoporosis is a chronic epidemic which can 
leads to enhanced bone fragility and consequent an increase in fracture risk. 
Traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) formulas have a long history of use in the 
prevention and treatment of osteoporosis. Antiosteoporotic TCM formulas have 
conspicuous advantage over single drugs. Systematic data mining of the existing 
antiosteoporotic TCM formulas database can certainly help the drug discovery 
processes and help the identification of safe candidates with synergistic 
formulations. In this review, the authors summarize the clinical use and animal 
experiments of TCM formulas and their mechanism of action, and discuss the 
potential antiosteoporotic activity and the active constituents of commonly used 
herbs in TCM formulas for the therapy of osteoporosis.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The literature was searched from Medline, Pubmed, 
ScienceDirect, Spring Link, Web of Science, CNKI and VIP database from 1989 to 
2015, and also collected from Chinese traditional books and Chinese 
Pharmacopoeia with key words such as osteoporosis, osteoblast, osteoclast, 
traditional Chinese medicine formulas to identify studies on the 
antiosteoporotic effects of TCM formulas, herbs and chemical constituents, and 
also their possible mechanisms.
RESULTS: Thirty-three TCM formulas were commonly used to treat osteoporosis, and 
showed significant antiosteoporotic effects in human and animal. The herb 
medicines and their chemical constituents in TCM formulas were summarized, the 
pharmacological effects and chemical constituents of commonly used herbs in TCM 
formulas were described in detail. The action mechanisms of TCM formulas and 
their chemical constituents were described. Finally, the implication for the 
discovery of antiosteoporotic leads and combinatory ingredients from TCM 
formulas were prospectively discussed.
CONCLUSIONS: Clinical practice and animal experiments indicate that TCM formulas 
provide a definite therapeutic effect on osteoporosis. The active constituents 
in TCM formulas are diverse in chemical structure, and include flavonoids, 
lignans, saponins and iridoid glycosides. Antiosteoporotic mechanism of TCM 
formulas and herbs involves multi regulatory pathways, such as Wnt/β-catenin, 
BMP/Smad, MAPK pathway and RANKL/OPG system. Phytochemicals from TCM formulas 
and their compositional herb medicines offer great potential for the development 
of novel antiosteoporotic drugs. The active ingredients in TCM formulas can be 
developed in combination as potent drugs, which may exhibit better 
antiosteoporotic effects compared to the individual compound.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2016.05.025
PMID: 27180315 [Indexed for MEDLINE]