[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: cannabis cannabidiol therapeutic epilepsy pain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: cannabis cannabidiol therapeutic epilepsy pain]

10. Front Pharmacol. 2024 Jan 15;14:1328885. doi: 10.3389/fphar.2023.1328885. 
eCollection 2023.

Cannabidiol and brain function: current knowledge and future perspectives.

Schouten M(1), Dalle S(1), Mantini D(#)(2), Koppo K(#)(1).

Author information:
(1)Exercise Physiology Research Group, Department of Movement Sciences, KU 
Leuven, Leuven, Belgium.
(2)Movement Control and Neuroplasticity Research Group, Department of Movement 
Sciences, KU Leuven, Leuven, Belgium.
(#)Contributed equally

Cannabidiol (CBD) is a naturally occurring non-psychoactive cannabinoid found in 
Cannabis sativa, commonly known as cannabis or hemp. Although currently 
available CBD products do not meet the safety standards of most food safety 
authorities to be approved as a dietary supplement or food additive, CBD has 
been gaining widespread attention in recent years due to its various potential 
health benefits. While primarily known for its therapeutic effects in managing 
epileptic seizures, psychosis, anxiety, (neuropathic) pain, and inflammation, 
CBD's influence on brain function has also piqued the interest of researchers 
and individuals seeking to enhance cognitive performance. The primary objective 
of this review is to gather, synthesize, and consolidate scientifically proven 
evidence on the impact of CBD on brain function and its therapeutic significance 
in treating neurological and mental disorders. First, basic background 
information on CBD, including its biomolecular properties and mechanisms of 
action is presented. Next, evidence for CBD effects in the human brain is 
provided followed by a discussion on the potential implications of CBD as a 
neurotherapeutic agent. The potential effectiveness of CBD in reducing chronic 
pain is considered but also in reducing the symptoms of various brain disorders 
such as epilepsy, Alzheimer's, Huntington's and Parkinson's disease. 
Additionally, the implications of using CBD to manage psychiatric conditions 
such as psychosis, anxiety and fear, depression, and substance use disorders are 
explored. An overview of the beneficial effects of CBD on aspects of human 
behavior, such as sleep, motor control, cognition and memory, is then provided. 
As CBD products remain largely unregulated, it is crucial to address the ethical 
concerns associated with their use, including product quality, consistency, and 
safety. Therefore, this review discusses the need for responsible research and 
regulation of CBD to ensure its safety and efficacy as a therapeutic agent for 
brain disorders or to stimulate behavioral and cognitive abilities of healthy 
individuals.

Copyright © 2024 Schouten, Dalle, Mantini and Koppo.

DOI: 10.3389/fphar.2023.1328885
PMCID: PMC10823027
PMID: 38288087

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest. The author(s) declared that 
they were an editorial board member of Frontiers, at the time of submission. 
This had no impact on the peer review process and the final decision.