[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: low-level laser therapy wound healing pain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: low-level laser therapy wound healing pain]

45. Photodiagnosis Photodyn Ther. 2025 Jun;53:104594. doi: 
10.1016/j.pdpdt.2025.104594. Epub 2025 Apr 25.

The efficacy of low-level laser therapy in oral surgery: A systematic review of 
randomized controlled trials.

Chaple Gil A(1), Díaz L(2), Von Marttens A(3), Sotomayor C(4), Basualdo J(4), 
Beltrán V(5), Jorquera G(6), Caviedes R(7), Fernández E(8).

Author information:
(1)Universidad Autónoma de Chile, Facultad de Ciencias de la Salud, Santiago, 
Chile.
(2)Department of Prosthodontics, Faculty of Dentistry, University of Chile, 
Santiago, Chile; Department of Stomatology, Faculty of Dentistry, Universidad de 
Sevilla, Sevilla, Spain; Perioplastic Institute, Santiago, Chile.
(3)Department of Prosthodontics, Faculty of Dentistry, University of Chile, 
Santiago, Chile.
(4)Postgraduate School, Faculty of Dentistry, University of Chile, Chile.
(5)Clinical Investigation and Dental Innovation Center (CIDIC), Faculty of 
Dentistry, Universidad de La Frontera, Temuco, Chile.
(6)Department of Oral Rehabilitation, Facultad de Odontologia, Universidad de 
Los Andes, Chile.
(7)Department of Restorative Dentistry, Faculty of Dentistry, University of 
Chile, Chile.
(8)Department of Restorative Dentistry, Faculty of Dentistry, University of 
Chile, Chile; Instituto de Ciencias Biomédicas, Universidad Autónoma de Chile, 
Santiago, Chile. Electronic address: edofdez@yahoo.com.

BACKGROUND: Low-Level Laser Therapy (LLLT) has gained attention as a 
non-invasive adjunctive treatment in oral surgery due to its potential to 
enhance tissue healing, reduce postoperative pain, and modulate inflammation.
OBJECTIVE: This systematic review aimed to evaluate the clinical efficacy of 
LLLT in improving postoperative wound healing, alleviating pain, and controlling 
inflammation in patients undergoing oral surgical procedures. It also aimed to 
identify optimal laser parameters for future clinical application.
METHODS: A systematic review of randomized controlled trials (RCTs) was 
performed following PRISMA 2020 guidelines and the PROPS framework. Literature 
searches were conducted in five electronic databases and grey literature sources 
up to March 2025. Studies included adult patients undergoing oral surgery, 
treated with LLLT, and reporting outcomes related to healing, pain, 
inflammation, or complications.
RESULTS: Eighteen RCTs comprising 771 patients were included. LLLT consistently 
demonstrated superior outcomes compared to placebo, sham, or standard care. All 
studies reported enhanced wound healing, particularly with wavelengths between 
660 and 810 nm and energy densities of 3-12 J/cm². Postoperative pain was 
reduced by 30-55 % within the first 3-7 days post-surgery, according to Visual 
Analog Scale scores. Studies that assessed inflammatory biomarkers showed 
reductions in TNF-α and IL-6, and increased VEGF expression. Additionally, 
several studies indicated a lower incidence of postoperative complications such 
as infection and delayed healing in LLLT-treated groups.
CONCLUSION: LLLT appears to be a safe and effective adjunct in oral surgery. 
Further high-quality studies with standardized protocols and longer follow-up 
periods are needed to support its broader clinical implementation.

Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pdpdt.2025.104594
PMID: 40288479 [Indexed for MEDLINE]