[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: low-level laser therapy wound healing pain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: low-level laser therapy wound healing pain]

66. Lasers Med Sci. 2025 Feb 4;40(1):64. doi: 10.1007/s10103-025-04319-9.

Photobiomodulation of gut microbiota with low-level laser therapy: a light for 
treating neuroinflammation.

da Silva LE(1), Martins DF(2), de Oliveira MP(3), Stenier MR(3), Fernandes 
BB(3), Willemann SDS(3), de Souza G(2), Vieira WF(4)(5), Hewitson A(6), 
Cidral-Filho FJ(2)(7), Rezin GT(3).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Neurobiology of Inflammatory and Metabolic Processes 
(Neuroimet), Graduate Program in Health Sciences, University of Southern Santa 
Catarina, Tubarão, Brazil. larissa_espindola@outlook.com.
(2)Experimental Neuroscience Laboratory (LaNEx), Graduate Program in Health 
Sciences, University of Southern Santa Catarina, Palhoça, Brazil.
(3)Laboratory of Neurobiology of Inflammatory and Metabolic Processes 
(Neuroimet), Graduate Program in Health Sciences, University of Southern Santa 
Catarina, Tubarão, Brazil.
(4)Department of Anatomy, Institute of Biomedical Sciences, University of São 
Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil.
(5)Department of Structural and Functional Biology, State University of 
Campinas, Campinas, Brazil.
(6)Avant Wellness Systems, Thousand Oaks, USA.
(7)Integrative Wellbeing Institute, Orlando, USA.

The gut microbiota is known to interact with various organs in the body, 
including the central nervous system, through the gut-brain axis. Intestinal 
dysbiosis can lead to increased peripheral inflammation and, consequently, 
affect the brain, resulting in neuroinflammation. Photobiomodulation (PBM) has 
demonstrated positive regulatory effects on the imbalance of certain body 
functions, including pain, inflammation, immunity, wound healing, and gut 
microbiota dysbiosis. Therefore, PBM at the intestinal level could help improve 
intestinal dysbiosis and reestablish cerebral homeostasis. In this context, this 
study aimed to conduct a narrative review of the literature on the effects of 
PBM at the intestinal level on intestinal dysbiosis and neuroinflammation. 
Overall, the findings highlight that PBM modulates the gut microbiota, 
suggesting it could serve as a therapy for neurological conditions affecting the 
gut-brain axis. Future research should focus on further elucidating the 
molecular mechanisms underlying this therapy.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag London Ltd., 
part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s10103-025-04319-9
PMID: 39903307 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethical approval: Not applicable. 
Competing interests: The authors declare no competing interests. Informed 
consent: Not applicable.