[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: cannabis cannabidiol therapeutic epilepsy pain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: cannabis cannabidiol therapeutic epilepsy pain]

38. Front Vet Sci. 2023 Jan 4;9:1050884. doi: 10.3389/fvets.2022.1050884. 
eCollection 2022.

The role of cannabinoids in pain modulation in companion animals.

Miranda-Cortés A(1), Mota-Rojas D(2), Crosignani-Outeda N(3), Casas-Alvarado 
A(2), Martínez-Burnes J(4), Olmos-Hernández A(5), Mora-Medina P(6), 
Verduzco-Mendoza A(5), Hernández-Ávalos I(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Science, Clinical Pharmacology and Veterinary 
Anesthesia, Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México (UNAM), FESC, Mexico City, 
Mexico.
(2)Neurophysiology of Pain, Behavior and Assessment of Welfare in Domestic 
Animals, DPAA, Universidad Autónoma Metropolitana, (UAM), Mexico City, Mexico.
(3)Department of Clinics and Veterinary Hospital, School of Veterinary, 
University of Republic, Montevideo, Uruguay.
(4)Animal Health Group, Facultad de Medicina Veterinaria y Zootecnia, 
Universidad Autónoma de Tamaulipas, Ciudad Victoria, Tamaulipas, Mexico.
(5)Department Bioterio and Experimental Surgery, Instituto Nacional de 
Rehabilitación-Luis Guillermo Ibarra Ibarra (INR-LGII), Calzada México 
Xochimilco, Mexico City, Mexico.
(6)Livestock Science Department, Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México (UNAM), 
FESC, Mexico City, Mexico.

The use of cannabinoids in both veterinary and human medicine is controversial 
for legal and ethical reasons. Nonetheless, the availability and therapeutic use 
of naturally occurring or synthetic phytocannabinoids, such as 
Δ9-tetrahydrocannabidiol and cannabidiol, have been the focus of attention in 
studies regarding their medical uses. This review aims to examine the role of 
cannabinoids in pain modulation by analyzing scientific findings regarding the 
signaling pathways of the endocannabinoid system and discussing the analgesic 
effects of synthetic cannabinoids compared to cannabinoid extracts and the 
extent and involvement of their receptors. In animals, studies have shown the 
analgesic properties of these substances and the role of the cannabinoid binding 
-1 (CB1) and cannabinoid binding -2 (CB2) receptors in the endocannabinoid 
system to modulate acute, chronic and neuropathic pain. This system consists of 
three main components: endogenous ligands (anandamide and 
2-arachidonoylglycerol), G protein-coupled receptors and enzymes that degrade 
and recycle the ligands. Evidence suggests that their interaction with CB1 
receptors inhibits signaling in pain pathways and causes psychoactive effects. 
On the other hand, CB2 receptors are associated with anti-inflammatory and 
analgesic reactions and effects on the immune system. Cannabis extracts and 
their synthetic derivatives are an effective therapeutic tool that contributes 
to compassionate pain care and participates in its multimodal management. 
However, the endocannabinoid system interacts with different endogenous ligands 
and neurotransmitters, thus offering other therapeutic possibilities in dogs and 
cats, such is the case of those patients who suffer from seizures or epilepsy, 
contact and atopic dermatitis, degenerative myelopathies, asthma, diabetes and 
glaucoma, among other inflammatory diseases. Moreover, these compounds have been 
shown to possess antineoplastic, appetite-stimulating, and antiemetic 
properties. Ultimately, the study of the endocannabinoid system, its ligands, 
receptors, mechanism of action, and signaling, has contributed to the 
development of research that shows that hemp-derived and their synthetic 
derivatives are an effective therapeutic alternative in the multimodal 
management of pain in dogs and cats due to their ability to prevent peripheral 
and central sensitization.

Copyright © 2023 Miranda-Cortés, Mota-Rojas, Crosignani-Outeda, Casas-Alvarado, 
Martínez-Burnes, Olmos-Hernández, Mora-Medina, Verduzco-Mendoza and 
Hernández-Ávalos.

DOI: 10.3389/fvets.2022.1050884
PMCID: PMC9848446
PMID: 36686189

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.