[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: cannabis cannabidiol therapeutic epilepsy pain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: cannabis cannabidiol therapeutic epilepsy pain]

63. Curr Addict Rep. 2020 Sep;7(3):405-412. doi: 10.1007/s40429-020-00326-8. Epub
 2020 Jul 25.

Therapeutic Efficacy of Cannabidiol (CBD): A Review of the Evidence from 
Clinical Trials and Human Laboratory Studies.

Sholler DJ(1), Schoene L(1), Spindle TR(1).

Author information:
(1)Behavioral Pharmacology Research Unit, Department of Psychiatry and 
Behavioral Sciences, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, 
Maryland, USA.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Global policy changes have increased access to products 
containing cannabidiol (CBD), a primary constituent of hemp and cannabis. The 
CBD product industry has experienced tremendous growth, in part, because CBD is 
widely touted as an effective therapeutic for myriad health conditions. However, 
only 1 CBD product (Epidiolex®) has been approved by the U.S. Food and Drug 
Administration (FDA) to date. There is substantial interest among consumers and 
the medical and scientific communities regarding the therapeutic potential of 
CBD, including for novel indications that are not recognized by the FDA. The 
purpose of this review was to synthesize available evidence from clinical 
research regarding the efficacy of CBD as a therapeutic.
RECENT FINDINGS: Human laboratory studies and clinical trials (e.g., randomized 
controlled trials and single-arm, open label trials) evaluating the efficacy of 
CBD as a therapeutic were identified for various medical conditions, including 
epilepsy, anxiety, pain/inflammation, schizophrenia, various substance use 
disorders, post-traumatic stress disorder, and others. There is clear evidence 
supporting the utility of CBD to treat epilepsy. For other health conditions 
reviewed, evidence was often mixed and/or there was a general lack of 
well-powered randomized, placebo-controlled studies to draw definitive 
conclusions.
SUMMARY: Rigorous, controlled evidence for the therapeutic efficacy of CBD is 
lacking for many health conditions. Possible concerns with the use of CBD as a 
therapeutic include the potential for adverse effects (e.g., liver toxicity), 
drug-drug interactions, and lack of sufficient regulatory oversight of retail 
CBD products.

DOI: 10.1007/s40429-020-00326-8
PMCID: PMC7880228
PMID: 33585159

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interest: The authors declare no 
conflicts of interested in relation to this work.