[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: My Name Is Rachel Corrie | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# My Name Is Rachel Corrie — Overview

A reading of the play took place in Dublin, Ireland, on March 15, 2008, at the Project Arts Centre. The reading was presented by Amnesty International Irish Section and Fishamble theatre company. Actress Megan Riordan performed the reading. In 2007, the play was staged in Lima, Peru, at La Plaza ISIL theater under the direction of Nishme Sumar and featuring Gisela Ponce De Leon as Corrie. This was the first performance of the play in a Spanish-speaking country. Theatre Yes in Edmonton, Alberta, staged My Name is Rachel Corrie March 28 – April 12, 2008. Theatre PANIK staged the play at Tarragon Theatre in Toronto, opening May 29, 2008 with Bethany Jillard performing the role. The production was directed by Kate Lushington. All four local daily papers gave the play and the actress enthusiastic reviews, but the theatre critic Lynn Slotkin in CBC Toronto radio show Here and Now was highly critical of every aspect of the play. The Kraine Theater in Manhattan staged the show under the direction of Ashley Marinaccio and Robert Gonyo of Co-Op Theatre East Co-Op Theatre East. The show was unique in that there were two actors portraying Rachel Corrie — Theresa Christine and Stephanie Shafir as the young Rachel Corrie. In October, 2015 the play was staged at the Corpus Playroom, Cambridge, UK. Rachel Corrie was portrayed by Ella Duffy, the daughter of Carol Ann Duffy. The show received critical acclaim, described as "a brilliant, barnstorming performance". The play was staged in Winnipeg, Canada at the Irish Association of Manitoba, as part of the 2016 MayWorks Festival of Labour and the Arts. The staging featured the role of Corrie and the other figures in her life divided between five actors. The production did consultation and post-show talkbacks with Independent Jewish Voices. The play was produced in Corrie's hometown of Olympia Washington for the first time in 2017 at Harlequin Productions from January 19 to February 11. The play was directed by Jeff Painter. The role of Corrie was portrayed by Kira Batcheller. References

External links
Rachel Corrie Foundation for Peace and Justice International Productions of "My Name is Rachel Corrie" Play Page
Rachel Corrie Memorial Website
"Democracy Now" discussion on the cancellation/postponement of My Name is Rachel Corrie by the NYTW
 The Rachel Corrie Verdict
The Death of Rachel Corrie. Mother Jones
The Subversive Theatre Collective
Rachel Corrie play opens in Haifa
 The Case Against Rachel Corrie
Royal Court Theatre "My Name is Rachel Corrie" Education Resources
Surely Americans will not put up with this censorship, Katharine Viner The Guardian
 The secular beatification of Rachel Corrie sums up everything that is wrong with modern solidarity with Palestine
SBS Dateline feature on the Australian Premiere

Rachel Corrie
2005 plays
British plays
Docudrama plays
Plays for one performer
Plays about the Israeli–Palestinian conflict
Plays based on real people