[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: ethnobotany traditional medicine biological activi | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: ethnobotany traditional medicine biological activity]

18. Phytother Res. 2018 Nov;32(11):2131-2145. doi: 10.1002/ptr.6157. Epub 2018
Jul  24.

Ethnobotany of the genus Taraxacum-Phytochemicals and antimicrobial activity.

Sharifi-Rad M(1), Roberts TH(2), Matthews KR(3), Bezerra CF(4), Morais-Braga 
MFB(4), Coutinho HDM(4), Sharopov F(5), Salehi B(6)(7), Yousaf Z(8), Sharifi-Rad 
M(9), Del Mar Contreras M(10), Varoni EM(11), Verma DR(12), Iriti M(13), 
Sharifi-Rad J(14)(15).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Parasitology, Zabol University of Medical Sciences, 
Zabol, Iran.
(2)Plant Breeding Institute, Sydney Institute of Agriculture, University of 
Sydney, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.
(3)Department of Food Science, Rutgers University, New Brunswick, New Jersey, 
USA.
(4)Laboratório de Microbiologia e Biologia Molecular - LMBM, Departamento de 
Química Biológica - DQB, Universidade Regional do Cariri - URCA, Pimenta, Crato, 
Brazil.
(5)Department of Pharmaceutical Technology, Avicenna Tajik State Medical 
University, Dushanbe, Tajikistan.
(6)Medical Ethics and Law Research Center, Shahid Beheshti University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(7)Student Research Committee, Shahid Beheshti University of Medical Sciences, 
Tehran, Iran.
(8)Department of Botany, Lahore College for Women University, Lahore, Pakistan.
(9)Department of Range and Watershed Management, Faculty of Natural Resources, 
University of Zabol, Zabol, Iran.
(10)Departamento de Ingeniería Química, Ambiental y de los Materiales, 
Universidad de Jaén, Jaén, Spain.
(11)Department of Biomedical, Surgical and Dental Sciences, Milan State 
University, Milan, Italy.
(12)Department of Botany and Postgraduate Department, Biological Sciences, VIVA 
College of Arts, Science and Commerce, Virar, Maharashtra, India.
(13)Department of Agricultural and Environmental Sciences, Milan State 
University, Milan, Italy.
(14)Phytochemistry Research Center, Shahid Beheshti University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(15)Department of Chemistry, Richardson College for the Environmental Science 
Complex, The University of Winnipeg, Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada.

Plants belonging to the genus Taraxacum have been used in traditional healthcare 
to treat infectious diseases including food-borne infections. This review aims 
to summarize the available information on Taraxacum spp., focusing on plant 
cultivation, ethnomedicinal uses, bioactive phytochemicals, and antimicrobial 
properties. Phytochemicals present in Taraxacum spp. include sesquiterpene 
lactones, such as taraxacin, mongolicumin B, and taraxinic acid derivatives; 
triterpenoids, such as taraxasterol, taraxerol, and officinatrione; and phenolic 
derivatives, such as hydroxycinnamic acids (chlorogenic, chicoric, and 
caffeoyltartaric acids), coumarins (aesculin and cichoriin), lignans 
(mongolicumin A), and taraxacosides. Aqueous and organic extracts of different 
plant parts exhibit promising in vitro antimicrobial activity relevant for 
controlling fungi and Gram-positive and Gram-negative bacteria. Therefore, this 
genus represents a potential source of bioactive phytochemicals with 
broad-spectrum antimicrobial activity. However, so far, preclinical evidence for 
these activities has not been fully substantiated by clinical studies. Indeed, 
clinical evidence for the activity of Taraxacum bioactive compounds is still 
scant, at least for infectious diseases, and there is limited information on 
oral bioavailability, pharmacological activities, and safety of Taraxacum 
products in humans, though their traditional uses would suggest that these 
plants are safe.

© 2018 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/ptr.6157
PMID: 30039597 [Indexed for MEDLINE]