[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: optical coherence tomography retinal diagnosis | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: optical coherence tomography retinal diagnosis]

43. Klin Oczna. 2010;112(4-6):138-46.

Optical coherence tomography in imaging of macular diseases.

Figurska M(1), Robaszkiewicz J, Wierzbowska J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Military Medical Institute, Warsaw. 
malgorzata-figurska@wp.pl

OCT (opitcal coherence tomography), is a diagnostic method that enables the 
analysis of the retinal structures by means of high-resolution tomographic 
cross-sections of the retina. Whereas fluorescein and indocyanine angiography 
allow visualization of the retinal epithelium layer and chorioretinal vessels, 
OCT may help in diagnosing and monitoring the condition of many internal retinal 
layers. Ultrasound B-mode examinations have a resolution of about 150 microm 
while OCT provides a resolution of 10 microm. OCT makes it possible to detect 
and measure morphological changes, retinal thickness, retinal volume, thickness 
of retinal nerve fiber layer and various parameters of the optic disc. We use 
OCT in the analysis of the retinal structures in various pathologies such as 
macular holes and pseudo-holes, epiretinal membranes, macular edemas of various 
origins, including vasooclusive disease and diabetic macular edema, lesions of 
vitreoretinal interface and vitreoretinal traction, serous and hemorrhagic 
detachments of the retina and of pigment epithelium, age related macular 
degeneration, diabetic retinopathy, glaucoma. OCT is an examination that is 
fast, sensitive, reproducible, non-invasive, non-contact and easy to perform and 
interpret for a retinologist. The aim of this article is to present OCT 
principles and techniques as well as OCT interpretation and images of most 
common retinal diseases: age related macular degeneration--dry and wet form, 
retinal angiomatous proliferation (RAP), central serous chorioretinopathy, 
epiretinal membranes, macular holes, diabetic retinopathy.

PMID: 20825070 [Indexed for MEDLINE]