[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: Joey Dee and the Starliters | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Joey Dee and the Starliters — Overview

any members. The track has been widely reissued on Various versions of the Beatles Hamburg Recordings. During October and November 1963, the Starliters toured Europe, performing one extraordinary night in Stockholm with The Beatles (already the biggest band in Northern Europe) as their opening act. In 1964, Joey Dee toured with various Starliters, including future Young Rascals Gene Cornish, Felix Cavaliere, and David's brother, Eddie Brigati. Jimi Hendrix and Joe Pesci played guitar with the group at different times in the 1960s. Later history
Dee continued to record and issue solo recordings from the mid-1960s to the mid-1970s, including a song he wrote with original Starliters David Brigati and Larry Vernieri entitled "How Can I Forget", which was released under the name Joey Dee and the New Starliters. He continued to travel and make personal appearances with various Starliters. In 2001 the group was featured on a PBS special, Rock, Rhythm and Doo-Wop, and in 2005 they appeared on the Jerry Lewis telethon for muscular dystrophy. As of 2009 Joey Dee and the Starliters consists of Dee sometimes performing with Bobby Valli (brother of Frankie Valli) and original Starliter David Brigati and at other times with the original Soul Survivors Charlie and Richie Ingui, with the three singers taking the lead and performing their own hits as well as covers. Joey's son Ronnie DiNicola often plays saxophone and sings backup vocals for his father. Dee has been a long time resident of Pinellas County in Florida. On September 19, 2010, a street corner was dedicated to the band in their home town of Passaic, NJ. The street signing took place on the corner of Washington Place and Columbia Ave. In 2021, Joey Dee released his long-awaited autobiography entitled Peppermint Twist Chronicles: My True Story of Sex, Rock n’ Roll, Jimi Hendrix, Fighting Racism, and the Mob. Dee’s memoirs were co-written by J. Kevin Morris. When the book was released, it became one of the top selling music history books on Amazon. Members

Discography

Albums

 Doin' the Twist at the Peppermint Lounge (Roulette, 1961)
 Hey Let's Twist (Roulette, 1961)
 All The World Is Twistin'! (Roulette, 1962)
 Two Tickets To Paris (Roulette, 1962)
 Back At The Peppermint Lounge (Roulette, 1962)
 Hey Let's Twist!: The Best Of Joey Dee & The Starliters (Rhino, 1990)

Singles

References

External links
 
 Joey Dee – interview
 Starlighters biography

American pop music groups
Jubilee Records artists
Musical groups from New Jersey
Roulette Records artists