[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Propulsion Mechanics | Topic: Submillimeter Wave Astronomy Satellite | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Submillimeter Wave Astronomy Satellite — Overview

was originally scheduled to launch in June 1995, but was delayed due to back-to-back launch failures of the Pegasus XL launch vehicle in June 1994 and June 1995. A launch opportunity in January 1997 was again canceled due to a Pegasus XL launch failure in November 1996. The commissioning phase of the mission lasted until 19 December 1998, when the telescope began producing useful science data. The SWAS mission had a planned duration of two years and a cost estimate of US$60 million, but mission extensions allowed for five and a half years of continuous science operations. During this time, data was taken on more than 200 astronomical objects. The decision was made to end science and spacecraft operations on 21 July 2004, at which time the spacecraft was placed into hibernation. Deep Impact mission 
To support the Deep Impact mission at comet 9P/Tempel, SWAS was brought out of hibernation on 1 June 2005. Vehicle check-out was completed on 5 June 2005 with no discernible degradation of equipment found. SWAS observations of the comet focused on isotopic water output both before and after the Deep Impact impactor struck the comet's nucleus on 4 July 2005. While water output was found to naturally vary by more than a factor of three during the observation campaign, SWAS data showed that there was no excessive release of water due to the impact event. After three months of observation, SWAS was once again placed into hibernation on 1 September 2005. , SWAS remains in Earth orbit on stand-by. See also 

 Explorer program

References

Further reading

External links 

 SWAS website by the Center for Astrophysics  Harvard & Smithsonian
 SWAS data archive by NASA's Legacy Archive for Microwave Background Data Analysis
 SWAS data archive by the NASA/IPAC Infrared Science Archive
 SWAS website (archive) by NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center

Satellites orbiting Earth
Explorers Program
Space telescopes
Spacecraft launched in 1998
Submillimetre telescopes
Spacecraft launched by Pegasus rockets