[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: Fiber laser | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Fiber laser — Overview

such as stimulated Raman scattering (SRS), stimulated Brillouin scattering (SBS), mode instabilities, and poor output beam quality. The main approach to solving the problems related to increasing the output power of pulses has been to increase the core diameter of the fiber. Special active fibers with large modes were developed to increase the surface-to-active-volume ratio of active fibers and, hence, improve heat dissipation enabling power scaling. Moreover, specially developed double cladding structures have been used to reduce the brightness requirements of the high-power pump diodes by controlling pump propagation and absorption between the inner cladding and the core. Several types of active fibers with a large effective mode area (LMA) have been developed for high power scaling including LMA fibers with a low-aperture core, micro-structured rod-type fiber  helical core  or chirally-coupled fibers, and tapered double-clad fibers (T-DCF). The mode field diameter (MFD) achieved with these low aperture technologies  usually does not exceed 20–30 μm. The micro-structured rod-type fiber has much larger MFD (up to 65 μm ) and good performance. An impressive 2.2 mJ pulse energy was demonstrated by a femtosecond MOPA  containing large-pitch fibers (LPF). However, the shortcoming of amplification systems with LPF is their relatively long (up to 1.2 m) unbendable rod-type fibers meaning a rather bulky and cumbersome optical scheme. LPF fabrication is highly complex requiring significant processing such as precision drilling of the fiber pre-forms. The LPF fibers are highly sensitive to bending meaning robustness and portability is compromised. Mode locking 

In addition to the types of mode locking used with other lasers, fiber lasers can be passively mode locked by using the birefringence of the fiber itself. The non-linear optical Kerr effect causes a change in polarization that varies with the light's intensity. This allows a polarizer in the laser cavity to act as a saturable absorber, blocking low-intensity light but allowing high intensity light to pass with little attenuation. This allows the laser to form mode-locked pulses, and then the non-linearity of the fiber further shapes each pulse into an ultra-short optical soliton pulse. Semiconductor saturable-absorber mirrors (SESAMs) can also be used to mode lock fiber lasers. A major advantage SESAMs have over other saturable absorber techniques is that absorber parameters can be easily tailored to meet the needs of a particular laser design. For example, saturation fluence can be controlled by varying the reflectivity of the top reflector while modulation depth and recovery time can be tailored by changing the low temperature growing conditions for the absorber layers. This freedom of design has further extended the application of SESAMs into modelocking of fiber lasers where a relatively high modulation depth is needed to ensure self-starting and operation stability. Fiber lasers working at 1 µm and 1.5 µm were successfully demonstrated. Graphene saturable absorbers have also been used for mode locking fiber lasers. Graphene's saturable absorption is not very sensitive to wavelength, making it useful for mode locking tunable lasers. Dark solitons 

In the non-mode locking regime, a dark soliton fiber laser was successfully created using an all-normal dispersion erbium-doped fiber laser with a polarizer in-cavity. Experimental findings indicate that apart from the bright pulse emission, under appropriate conditions the fiber laser could also emit single or multiple dark pulses. Based on numerical simulations the dark pulse formation in the laser may be a result of dark soliton shaping. Multi-wavelength emission 

Multi-wavelength emission in a fiber laser demonstrated simultaneous blue and green coherent light using ZBLAN optical fiber. The end-pumped laser was based on an upconversion optical gain media using a longer wavelength semiconductor laser to pump a Pr3+/Yb3+ doped fluoride fiber that used coated dielectric mirrors on each end of the fiber to form the cavity. Fiber disk lasers 

Another type of fiber laser is the fiber disk laser. In such lasers, the pump is not confined within the cladding of the fiber, but instead pump light is delivered across the core multiple times because it is coiled in on itself. This configuration is suitable for power scaling in which many pump sources are used around the periphery of the coil. Applications 

Applications of fiber lasers include material processing, telecommunications, spectroscopy, medicine, and directed energy weapons. See also 

 Figure-8 laser

References 

Solid-state lasers
Fiber optics