[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: ethnobotany traditional medicine biological activi | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: ethnobotany traditional medicine biological activity]

68. J Ethnopharmacol. 2021 Jul 15;275:114121. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2021.114121.
Epub  2021 Apr 20.

Traditional uses, phytochemistry, and pharmacology of Ailanthus altissima 
(Mill.) Swingle bark: A comprehensive review.

Li X(1), Li Y(1), Ma S(1), Zhao Q(1), Wu J(1), Duan L(1), Xie Y(1), Wang S(2).

Author information:
(1)Northwest University Faculty of Life and Health Science, Northwest 
University, 229 Taibai Road, Xi'an, Shaanxi, 710069, China.
(2)Northwest University Faculty of Life and Health Science, Northwest 
University, 229 Taibai Road, Xi'an, Shaanxi, 710069, China. Electronic address: 
wangsiw@nwu.edu.cn.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: The dried bark of Ailanthus altissima (Mill.) 
Swingle (BAA), commonly designated as "Chunpi" in Chinese, is extensively used 
as a common traditional medicine in China, Korea, and India. It has been used to 
treat multiple ailments, including asthma, epilepsy, spermatorrhea, bleeding, 
and ophthalmic diseases, for thousands of years.
AIM OF THE REVIEW: To present a comprehensive and constructive review on the 
phytochemistry, pharmacology, pharmacokinetics, traditional uses, quality 
control, and toxicology of BAA; to aid the assessment of the therapeutic 
potential of BAA; to guide researchers working on the development of novel 
therapeutic agents.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Information related to BAA (from 1960 to 2020) was 
retrieved from a wide variety of electronic databases, such as PubMed, Web of 
Science, China Knowledge Resource Integrated Database, ScienceDirect, SciFinder, 
and Google Scholar. Additional information and materials were acquired from 
Chinese Medicine Monographs, the 2020 edition of the Chinese Pharmacopoeia, and 
several web sources, such as the official website of The Plant List and Flora of 
China. Additionally, perspectives for future investigations and applications of 
BAA were extensively explored.
RESULTS: Approximately 221 chemical compounds, including alkaloids, quassinoids, 
phenylpropanoids, triterpenoids, volatile oils, and other compounds, have been 
isolated and characterized from BAA; among these, the quassinoid ailanthone is 
the most typical. The crude extracts and active compounds of BAA have been 
reported to exert a wide range of pharmacological activities, such as antitumor, 
anti-inflammatory, antiviral, herbicidal, and insecticidal activities. Although 
BAA is safe when administered at a conventional dose, at higher doses, it 
exhibits toxicity due to the presence of quassinoids. Thus, more studies are 
required to evaluate the efficacy and safety of BAA.
CONCLUSION: Modern pharmacological studies have revealed that BAA, as a valuable 
medicinal resource, possesses the potential to treat a wide variety of ailments, 
especially, cancer and gastrointestinal inflammation. These studies present a 
wide range of perspectives for the development of new drugs related to BAA. 
However, only a few traditional uses are associated with the reported 
pharmacological activities of BAA and have been confirmed by preclinical and 
clinical studies. Moreover, the pharmacokinetics, toxicology, and quality 
control of BAA should be considered indispensable research topics.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2021.114121
PMID: 33862103 [Indexed for MEDLINE]