[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: low-level laser therapy wound healing pain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: low-level laser therapy wound healing pain]

44. J Dent Res. 2016 Aug;95(9):977-84. doi: 10.1177/0022034516648939. Epub 2016
May  9.

Craniofacial Wound Healing with Photobiomodulation Therapy: New Insights and 
Current Challenges.

Arany PR(1).

Author information:
(1)Oral Biology, School of Dental Medicine, University at Buffalo, Buffalo, NY, 
USA prarany@buffalo.edu.

The fundamental pathophysiologic response for the survival of all organisms is 
the process of wound healing. Inadequate or lack of healing constitutes the 
etiopathologic basis of many oral and systemic diseases. Among the numerous 
efforts to promote wound healing, biophotonics therapies have shown much 
promise. Advances in photonic technologies and a better understanding of 
light-tissue interactions, from parallel biophotonics fields such as in vivo 
optical imaging and optogenetics, are spearheading their popularity in biology 
and medicine. Use of high-dose lasers and light devices in dermatology, 
ophthalmology, oncology, and dentistry are now popular for specific clinical 
applications, such as surgery, skin rejuvenation, ocular and soft tissue 
recontouring, and antitumor and antimicrobial photodynamic therapy. However, a 
less well-known clinical application is the therapeutic use of low-dose 
biophotonics termed photobiomodulation (PBM) therapy, which is aimed at 
alleviating pain and inflammation, modulating immune responses, and promoting 
wound healing and tissue regeneration. Despite significant volumes of scientific 
literature from clinical and laboratory studies noting the phenomenological 
evidence for this innovative therapy, limited mechanistic insights have 
prevented rigorous and reproducible PBM clinical protocols. This article briefly 
reviews current evidence and focuses on gaps in knowledge to identify potential 
paths forward for clinical translation with PBM therapy with an emphasis on 
craniofacial wound healing. PBM offers a novel opportunity to examine 
fundamental nonvisual photobiological processes as well as develop innovative 
clinical therapies, thereby presenting an opportunity for a paradigm shift from 
conventional restorative/prosthetic approaches to regenerative modalities in 
clinical dentistry.

© International & American Associations for Dental Research 2016.

DOI: 10.1177/0022034516648939
PMID: 27161014 [Indexed for MEDLINE]