[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: Scouting controversy and conflict | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Scouting controversy and conflict — Overview

There are various controversies and conflicts that involve the Scouting movement. Scouting has sometimes become entangled in social controversies such as in nationalist resistance movements in India. Scouting was introduced to Africa by British officials as an instrument of colonial authority but became a subversive challenge to the legitimacy of British imperialism as Scouting fostered solidarity amongst African Scouts. There are also controversies and challenges within the Scout Movement itself such as current efforts to turn Scouts Canada into a democratic organization (see also Non-aligned Scouting and Scout-like organisations). Sectarian and secular conflict

Religion in Scouting and Guiding is an aspect of the Scout method which has been practiced differently and given different interpretations over the years. In contrast to the Christian-only Boys' Brigade which was started two decades earlier, Baden-Powell founded the Scout movement as a youth organization (with boys as 'Scouts' and girls as 'Guides') which was independent of any single faith or religion, yet still held that spirituality and a belief in a higher power were key to the development of young people. Scouting organizations are free to interpret the method as laid down by the founder. As the modern world has become more secular and as many societies have become more religiously diverse, this has caused misunderstandings and controversies in some of the national member organizations. There are Scouting associations in some countries, such as France and Denmark, that are segregated on the basis of religious belief. Conflict over atheism

In 1933 some Scout groups broke away from the national Boy Scout organization De Nederlandsche Padvinders (NPV, "Netherlands Pathfinders") to form the Padvinders Vereeniging Nederland (PVN, "Pathfinder Association of the Netherlands"), because difficulties concerning the "Scout Promise" arose. The problem was that boys who did not recognize a god still had to promise "To do my duty to God" and the groups were concerned that this could turn those boys into hypocrites. A Roman Catholic organization was founded in 1938, the Katholieke Verkenners (KV, "Catholic Scouts") because the Dutch Roman Catholic bishops decided that Catholic youth should not be under the control of an association whose governing board was not all Catholic. The NPV and the PVN almost reunited in 1940. All Dutch Scout and Guide organizations merged in 1973 into Scouting Nederland (SN). The Dutch variant of the Scout Promise is one of the few in the world where the reference to God is optional as it has been granted an exception under WOSM guidelines. As of 2014, The Scout Association has allowed scouts in the UK to make a promise either with or without reference to God. Bans on Scouting by authoritarian regimes
Scouting has been banned in certain nations and remains banned in some of them. Scouting was changed into a regime loyal Scoutlike organization or banned in nearly all communist countries, most fascist countries, and some other countries with authoritarian regimes such as Afghanistan under the Taliban, Malawi, and Iran. Banning has caused Scouting to go underground in countries such as communist Poland, Francoist Spain and socialist Myanmar. The USSR banned Scouting in 1922, creating a separate Young Pioneer organization of the Soviet Union, which gave birth to the Pioneer Movement, still existing in some fashion in China, Cuba, North Korea, Vietnam, and Tajikistan. Prior to World War II, Germany, Italy, Hungary, and Romania disbanded Scouting. Instead, Germany created the Hitler Youth organization; Mussolini had a fascist youth organization, the Balilla; and Romania under King Carol II had the Străjeria. Currently, there are no externally recognized Scouting organizations in Cuba, North Korea, Laos, Vietnam and China except for the special administrative regions of Hong Kong and Macau). Cuba

In 1914, the first Scout groups in Cuba were founded. In the following years more local groups emerged, but they were not connected through a national association until 1927 when the Asociación de Scouts de Cuba (ASC) was founded. In the same year the association became a member of the World Organization of the Scout Movement (WOSM). During its first years, Cuban Scouting followed mainly the model of the Boy Scouts of America. Scouting existed in Cuba itself until the 1960s, when Cuban Scouting ceased operations after the Cuban revolution of 1959. Cuban Scouts rendered service during those times, directing traffic, collecting rations, helping in hospitals and establishing first aid stations. In 1961, the World Scout Conference terminated the WOSM membership of ASC claiming that they had ceased to exist. Communist leaders replaced the association with the José Martí Pioneer Organization. There is a Cubans-in-exile Association. Cuba is now one of only six of the world's independent countries that do not have Scouting. Cuba was also a former member of the World Association of Girl Guides and Girl Scouts, with the Asociación de Guías de Cuba last mentioned in 1969.