[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: phytotherapy systematic review clinical evidence | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: phytotherapy systematic review clinical evidence]

23. Forsch Komplementmed. 2011;18(6):335-44. doi: 10.1159/000334712. Epub 2011
Nov  23.

Systematic review on phytotherapy in neonatology.

Thiel MT(1), Längler A, Ostermann T.

Author information:
(1)Abteilung für Kinderheilkunde und Jugendmedizin, Gemeinschaftskrankenhaus 
Herdecke, Deutschland. m.thiel@gemeinschaftskrankenhaus.de

BACKGROUND: There is an enormous economical significance of phytotherapy at 
least in Germany, the huge demand of patients was repeatedly proven. 
Simultaneously data exist for different application areas and ages as for 
younger children and pregnancy until birth. The actual neonatal period can be of 
interest because phytotherapy is used in younger children and until birth, it is 
not very likely that there is a gap in this period of life.
AIM: To give an overview on the current literature on phytotherapy in 
neonatology.
METHODS: A systematic review was performed in the following databases: Cochrane, 
EM-BASE Alert, AMED, NCCAM, NLM, DIMDI, CAMbase, BIOSIS Previews, DAHTA, 
SciSearch, and Medline as well as in the archives of GMS, Karger, Kluwer, 
Thieme, Krause and Pachernegg, Wiley-Interscience/Phytotherapy Research, 
Springer and Merkurstab publishers. Keywords were neonatology, newborn, preterm, 
phytotherapy, phytomedicine, and herbal drugs in clinical randomized controlled 
studies.
RESULTS: We found 14 articles that fulfilled the inclusion criteria: 10 case 
control studies, 1 observational study, 1 study with interview, 1 with a 
questionnaire, and 1 retrospective study. Topics were aromatherapy, external 
applications, and internal effects of herbal teas.
CONCLUSION: Indications, study design and explantory power of these publications 
were quite heterogeneous. Most promising was the study situation in 
aromatherapy. Due to the fact that phytotherapy is frequently used and there is 
a high demand of parents, methodologically excellent studies are needed to 
evaluate the significance of phytotherapy in the neonatal period. The aim is to 
fulfill scientific as well as economical needs. This review shows that there is 
no such evidence yet.

Copyright © 2011 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000334712
PMID: 22189365 [Indexed for MEDLINE]