[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS neurology | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS neurology]

95. Neuroimage. 2020 Oct 15;220:117082. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2020.117082.
Epub  2020 Jun 25.

Automated search of stimulation targets with closed-loop transcranial magnetic 
stimulation.

Tervo AE(1), Metsomaa J(2), Nieminen JO(3), Sarvas J(1), Ilmoniemi RJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neuroscience and Biomedical Engineering, Aalto University 
School of Science, Espoo, Finland; BioMag Laboratory, HUS Medical Imaging 
Center, University of Helsinki and Helsinki University Hospital, Helsinki, 
Finland.
(2)Department of Neuroscience and Biomedical Engineering, Aalto University 
School of Science, Espoo, Finland; BioMag Laboratory, HUS Medical Imaging 
Center, University of Helsinki and Helsinki University Hospital, Helsinki, 
Finland; Department of Neurology & Stroke and Hertie Institute for Clinical 
Brain Research, University of Tübingen, Tübingen, Germany.
(3)Department of Neuroscience and Biomedical Engineering, Aalto University 
School of Science, Espoo, Finland; BioMag Laboratory, HUS Medical Imaging 
Center, University of Helsinki and Helsinki University Hospital, Helsinki, 
Finland. Electronic address: jaakko.nieminen@aalto.fi.

Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) protocols often include a manual search 
of an optimal location and orientation of the coil or peak stimulating electric 
field to elicit motor responses in a target muscle. This target search is 
laborious, and the result is user-dependent. Here, we present a closed-loop 
search method that utilizes automatic electronic adjustment of the stimulation 
based on the previous responses. The electronic adjustment is achieved by 
multi-locus TMS, and the adaptive guiding of the stimulation is based on the 
principles of Bayesian optimization to minimize the number of stimuli (and time) 
needed in the search. We compared our target-search method with other methods, 
such as systematic sampling in a predefined cortical grid. Validation 
experiments on five healthy volunteers and further offline simulations showed 
that our adaptively guided search method needs only a relatively small number of 
stimuli to provide outcomes with good accuracy and precision. The automated 
method enables fast and user-independent optimization of stimulation parameters 
in research and clinical applications of TMS.

Copyright © 2020 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2020.117082
PMID: 32593801 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interests RJI is an 
advisor and a minority shareholder of Nexstim Plc. The other authors declare no 
competing interests.