[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: curcumin anti-inflammatory clinical trial randomiz | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: curcumin anti-inflammatory clinical trial randomized]

2. Front Immunol. 2022 Jul 22;13:891822. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2022.891822. 
eCollection 2022.

Efficacy and Safety of Curcumin and Curcuma longa Extract in the Treatment of 
Arthritis: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis of Randomized Controlled Trial.

Zeng L(1), Yang T(2), Yang K(3), Yu G(2), Li J(2), Xiang W(4), Chen H(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Rheumatology and Clinical Immunology, Peking Union Medical 
College Hospital, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences & Peking Union Medical 
College, National Clinical Research Center for Dermatologic and Immunologic 
Diseases (NCRC-DID), Key Laboratory of Rheumatology and Clinical Immunology, 
Ministry of Education, Beijing, China.
(2)Department of Orthopedics, People's Hospital of Ningxiang City, Ningxiang 
City, China.
(3)Key Laboratory of Hunan Province for Integrated Traditional Chinese and 
Western Medicine on Prevention and Treatment of Cardio-Cerebral Diseases, Hunan 
University of Chinese Medicine, Changsha City, China.
(4)Department of Rheumatology, The First People's Hospital Changde City, Changde 
City, China.

BACKGROUND: Modern pharmacological research found that the chemical components 
of Curcuma longa L. are mainly curcumin and turmeric volatile oil. Several 
recent randomized controlled trials (RCT) have shown that curcumin improves 
symptoms and inflammation in patients with arthritis.
METHODS: Pubmed, Cochran Library, CNKI, and other databases were searched to 
collect the randomized controlled trials (RCTs). Then, the risk of bias of RCTs 
were assessed and data of RCTs were extracted. Finally, RevMan 5.3 was utilized 
for meta-analysis.
RESULTS: Twenty-nine (29) RCTs involving 2396 participants and 5 types of 
arthritis were included. The arthritis included Ankylosing Spondylitis (AS), 
Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA), Osteoarthritis (OA), Juvenile idiopathic arthritis 
(JIA) and gout/hyperuricemia. Curcumin and Curcuma longa Extract were 
administered in doses ranging from 120 mg to 1500 mg for a duration of 4-36 
weeks. In general, Curcumin and Curcuma longa Extract showed safety in all 
studies and improved the severity of inflammation and pain levels in these 
arthritis patients. However, more RCTs are needed in the future to elucidate the 
effect of Curcumin and Curcuma longa Extract supplementation in patients with 
arthritis, including RA, OA, AS and JIA.
CONCLUSION: Curcumin and Curcuma longa Extract may improve symptoms and 
inflammation levels in people with arthritis. However, due to the low quality 
and small quantity of RCTs, the conclusions need to be interpreted carefully.

Copyright © 2022 Zeng, Yang, Yang, Yu, Li, Xiang and Chen.

DOI: 10.3389/fimmu.2022.891822
PMCID: PMC9353077
PMID: 35935936 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.