[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: magnetic resonance spectroscopy metabolite brain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: magnetic resonance spectroscopy metabolite brain]

76. NMR Biomed. 2018 May;31(5):e3875. doi: 10.1002/nbm.3875. Epub 2018 Feb 21.

Quantitative magnetic resonance spectroscopy at 3T based on the principle of 
reciprocity.

Zoelch N(1)(2)(3), Hock A(1)(3), Henning A(1)(4).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Biomedical Engineering, University and ETH Zurich, Zurich, 
Switzerland.
(2)Institute of Forensic Medicine, University of Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland.
(3)Hospital of Psychiatry, Department of Psychiatry, Psychotherapy and 
Psychosomatics, University of Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland.
(4)Max Plank Institute for Biological Cybernetics, Tuebingen, Germany.

Quantification of magnetic resonance spectroscopy signals using the phantom 
replacement method requires an adequate correction of differences between the 
acquisition of the reference signal in the phantom and the measurement in vivo. 
Applying the principle of reciprocity, sensitivity differences can be corrected 
at low field strength by measuring the RF transmitter gain needed to obtain a 
certain flip angle in the measured volume. However, at higher field strength the 
transmit sensitivity may vary from the reception sensitivity, which leads to 
wrongly estimated concentrations. To address this issue, a quantification 
approach based on the principle of reciprocity for use at 3T is proposed and 
validated thoroughly. In this approach, the RF transmitter gain is determined 
automatically using a volume-selective power optimization and complemented with 
information from relative reception sensitivity maps derived from 
contrast-minimized images to correct differences in transmission and reception 
sensitivity. In this way, a reliable measure of the local sensitivity was 
obtained. The proposed method is used to derive in vivo concentrations of brain 
metabolites and tissue water in two studies with different coil sets in a total 
of 40 healthy volunteers. Resulting molar concentrations are compared with 
results using internal water referencing (IWR) and Electric REference To access 
In vivo Concentrations (ERETIC). With the proposed method, changes in coil 
loading and regional sensitivity due to B1 inhomogeneities are successfully 
corrected, as demonstrated in phantom and in vivo measurements. For the tissue 
water content, coefficients of variation between 2% and 3.5% were obtained 
(0.6-1.4% in a single subject). The coefficients of variation of the three major 
metabolites ranged from 3.4-14.5%. In general, the derived concentrations agree 
well with values estimated with IWR. Hence, the presented method is a valuable 
alternative for IWR, without the need for additional hardware such as ERETIC and 
with potential advantages in diseased tissue.

Copyright © 2018 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/nbm.3875
PMID: 29465821 [Indexed for MEDLINE]