[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: ethnobotany traditional medicine biological activi | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: ethnobotany traditional medicine biological activity]

2. J Ethnopharmacol. 2022 Feb 10;284:114647. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2021.114647. Epub
 2021 Sep 22.

Catharanthus roseus (L.) G. Don: A review of its ethnobotany, phytochemistry, 
ethnopharmacology and toxicities.

Kumar S(1), Singh B(2), Singh R(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, Ma. Kanshiram Government Degree College, Ninowa, 
(affiliated to Chhatrapati Shahu Ji Maharaj University (CSJM) Kanpur), 
Farrukhabad, 209602, Uttar Pradesh, India.
(2)Botanic Garden Division, CSIR-National Botanical Research Institute, Rana 
Pratap Marg, Lucknow, 226001, Uttar Pradesh, India; Academy of Scientific and 
Innovative Research (AcSIR), Ghaziabad, 201002, Uttar Pradesh, India. Electronic 
address: drbikarma.singh@nbri.res.in.
(3)Department of Botany, Government Degree College Bahua Dehat, (affiliated to 
Professor Rajendra Singh (Rajju Bhaiya) University Prayagraj), Fatehpur, 212663, 
Uttar Pradesh, India.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Catharanthus roseus (L.) G. Don is a well known 
medicinal plant belonging to family Apocynaceae that have been traditionally 
used as medicine since ancient times. C. roseus is a well-recognized herbal 
medicine due to its anticancer bisindole alkaloids (vinblastine (111), 
vincristine (112) and vindesine (121)). In the Ayurvedic system of medicine, 
different parts of C. roseus are used in folklore herbal medicine for treatment 
of many types of cancer, diabetes, stomach disorders, kidney, liver and 
cardiovascular diseases.
AIM OF THE STUDY: The main idea behind this communication is to update 
comprehensively and analyze critically the traditional applications, 
phytochemistry, pharmacological activities, and toxicity of various extracts and 
isolated compounds from C. roseus.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The presented data covers scientific works on C. roseus 
published across the world between 1967 and 2021 was searched from various 
international publishing houses using search engines as well as several 
traditional texts like Ayurveda and relevant books. Collected data from 
different sources was comprehensively summarized/analyzed for ethnomedicinal 
uses, phytochemistry, analytical chemistry, biological activities and toxicity 
studies of C. roseus.
RESULTS AND DISCUSSION: C. roseus has a wide range of applications in the 
traditional system of medicine especially in cancer and diabetes. During 
phytochemical investigation, total of 344 compounds including monoterpene indole 
alkaloids (MIAs) (110), bisindole alkaloids (35), flavonoids (34), phenolic 
acids (9) and volatile constituents (156) have been reported in the various 
extracts and fractions of different plant parts of C. roseus. The extracts and 
isolated compounds of C. roseus have to exhibit many pharmacological activities 
such as anticancer/cytotoxic, antidiabetic, antimicrobial, antioxidant, 
larvicidal and pupicidal. The comparative toxicity of extracts and bioactive 
compounds investigated in dose dependent manner. The investigation of toxicity 
showed that the both extracts and isolated compounds are safe to a certain limit 
beyond that they cause adverse effects.
CONCLUSION: This review is a comprehensive, critically analyzed summarization of 
sufficient baseline information of selected topics in one place undertaken till 
date on C. roseus for future works and drug discovery. The phytochemical 
investigation including biosynthetic pathways showed that the MIAs and bisindole 
alkaloids are major and characteristic class of compounds in this plant. The 
present data confirm that the extracts/fractions and their isolated alkaloids 
especially vinblastine (111) and vincristine (112) have a potent 
anticancer/cytotoxic and antidiabetic property and there is a need for further 
study with particular attention to the mechanisms of anticancer activity. In 
biosynthesis pathways of alkaloids especially bisindole alkaloids, some enzymes 
and rearrangement are unexposed therefore it is required to draw special 
attention. It also focuses on attracting the attention of scientific communities 
about the widespread biological activities of this species for its better 
utilization prospects in the near future.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2021.114647
PMID: 34562562 [Indexed for MEDLINE]