[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: natural product antibiotic drug discovery | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: natural product antibiotic drug discovery]

99. ACS Infect Dis. 2026 Jan 9;12(1):48-63. doi: 10.1021/acsinfecdis.5c00843.
Epub  2025 Dec 26.

Negamycin: Nature's Forgotten Antibiotic.

Boyle GA(1), Basarab GS(1).

Author information:
(1)Holistic Drug Discovery and Development (H3D) Centre, University of Cape 
Town, Cape Town 7701, South Africa.

Negamycin is a natural product antibiotic discovered in 1970 and shown to have a 
Gram-negative spectrum of activity. It has served as the starting point in drug 
discovery efforts due in large part to its structural simplicity and novel mode 
of inhibition of the bacterial ribosome. It follows that negamycin does not show 
cross-resistance with other antibacterial agents that operate on the ribosome, 
whether this would be due to target modification, drug efflux, or drug 
metabolism. Because of the deficiencies of current drug regimens for the 
treatment of infections caused by Gram-negative pathogens, having a new agent 
brought to the infectious disease formulary represents a critical medical need, 
as has been promoted by the World Health Organization and other entities. 
Negamycin has been the subject of over 20 total syntheses, often highlighting 
stereoselective chemistry toward installing its two chiral centers on an acyclic 
chain. Novel synthetic methodologies thereby developed can stimulate the 
synthesis of novel analogs. With this, progress has been made in devising more 
potent analogs than negamycin. Structural work has determined that negamycin 
binds to the A-site of the 30S ribosome encounter complex with tRNA. 
Advancements have been made to understand the mechanism of transport of 
negamycin to the bacterial cytoplasm to enable engagement of the ribosome. This 
review surveys much of what has been published around negamycin and its analogs, 
including aspects of the biological spectrum of activity and mode of action as 
well as limitations that have held back clinical development.

DOI: 10.1021/acsinfecdis.5c00843
PMCID: PMC12797225
PMID: 41452048 [Indexed for MEDLINE]