[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: laser dermatology skin treatment tattoo hair | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: laser dermatology skin treatment tattoo hair]

9. Lasers Med Sci. 2023 Nov 7;38(1):256. doi: 10.1007/s10103-023-03921-z.

Lasers for the treatment of eyebrow microblading and cosmetic tattoo pigment: a 
review of the literature.

Geisler AN(1), Eber A(2), Kim K(2), Arndt KA(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, Emory University, 1525 Clifton Road NE, 3rd Floor, 
Atlanta, GA, 30322, USA. ageisle@emory.edu.
(2)Skin Care Physicians, Boston, MA, USA.

We aim to discuss the use of laser for the treatment of eyebrow microblading and 
cosmetic tattoo complications through a review of the literature. Our research 
question is whether quality-switched or picosecond laser is superior for the 
removal of eyebrow tattoos. This structured review was conducted using a PubMed 
search using the search terms "laser tattoo removal" AND "cosmetic tattoo" AND 
"eyebrow" with the article type filtered to "case reports," "clinical trial," 
and "randomized controlled trial" ranging from dates 1994-2023. All case reports 
or series evaluating the effect of laser on eyebrow cosmetic tattooing pigment 
were included. We summarize the results of 11 studies evaluating the use of 
laser for cosmetic tattoo removal, with 129 patients treated specifically for 
eyebrow pigment. Most studies (8/11) report Fitzpatrick skin type or race. Seven 
studies utilize quality-switched (QS) neodymium-doped yttrium aluminum garnet 
(Nd:YAG), alexandrite or ruby, three used picosecond (PS) Nd:YAG or alexandrite, 
and three used carbon dioxide (CO2) laser. We report laser energy, spot size, 
and pulse duration, as well as treatment outcomes and adverse events. 
Historically, methods of pigment removal included dermabrasion, cryosurgery, 
electrosurgery, radiofrequency, infrared light, intense pulsed light, and 
surgical excision; however, these methods often led to poor cosmetic outcomes 
including scarring and further dyspigmentation. QS laser treatments provided 
superior cosmetic outcomes and thus were considered the gold standard treatment 
option for pigment removal. However, the advent of PS lasers has challenged this 
given their increased selectivity, lower fluence requirements, and reduction in 
surrounding thermal damage. Our review demonstrates that PS Nd:YAG is quicker 
and more effective that QS Nd:YAG in the treatment of eyebrow tattoos. 
Additionally, the paradoxical darkening seen with QS lasers is less common with 
PS lasers. We also demonstrate that CO2 laser may be a helpful adjunct to QS or 
PS laser. This review focuses on Fitzpatrick skin type and race, providing a 
unique perspective on the use of laser treatment in skin of color, which often 
poses an additional treatment challenge.

© 2023. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag London Ltd., 
part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s10103-023-03921-z
PMID: 37932517 [Indexed for MEDLINE]