[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: ethnobotany traditional medicine biological activi | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: ethnobotany traditional medicine biological activity]

71. J Pharm Pharmacol. 2022 Mar 3;74(3):296-320. doi: 10.1093/jpp/rgab131.

Moringa oleifera: a systematic review of its botany, traditional uses, 
phytochemistry, pharmacology and toxicity.

Liu R(1)(2)(3), Liu J(1)(2)(3), Huang Q(1)(2)(3), Liu S(1)(2)(3), Jiang 
Y(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, Xiangya Hospital, Central South University, Changsha, 
China.
(2)Institute of Hospital Pharmacy, Central South University, Changsha, China.
(3)Institute for Rational and Safe Medication Practices, National Clinical 
Research Center for Geriatric Disorders, Xiangya Hospital, Central South 
University, Changsha, China.

OBJECTIVES: Moringa oleifera (M. oleifera) Lam (Moringaceae) is a perennial 
plant broadly used in South Asia and Africa as a traditional folk medicine to 
treat many ailments such as paralysis, helminthiasis, sores and skin infections. 
The review provides a critical and comprehensive evaluation of the botany, 
traditional uses, phytochemistry, pharmacology, toxicity, agricultural economy 
and dietary benefit of M. oleifera and its future perspectives.
KEY FINDINGS: In this review, the entire plant of M. oleifera, containing 
diverse phytochemicals, is summarized. The 163 chemical components, included 
flavonoids, carbamates, glucosinolates, phenols, and so on with various 
bioactivities, such as anti-tumour, antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, and so on. 
Additionally, M. oleifera is toxic at certain doses; and overuse can cause 
genotoxicity.
SUMMARY: Although M. oleifera has been widely used in traditional medicine, the 
pharmacological studies that have been conducted so far are not sufficient for 
its use in the setting of evidence-based medicine. Little relevant data from 
clinical trials of M. oleifera have been reported. The majority of studies of 
its constituents, such as carbamates and glucosinolates, have been conducted 
only in vitro. Owing to a lack of available data, the pharmacology, toxicity, 
agricultural economy and dietary benefit of its constituents and extracts 
require further evaluation.

© The Author(s) 2021. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
Royal Pharmaceutical Society. All rights reserved. For permissions, please 
e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/jpp/rgab131
PMID: 34718669 [Indexed for MEDLINE]