[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: List of EastEnders characters (2004) | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# List of EastEnders characters (2004) — Overview

The following is a list of characters that first appeared in the BBC soap opera EastEnders in 2004, by order of first appearance. Dom Shaw 

Dom Shaw, played by Lloyd McGuire, is a board member on the Walford Community Centre committee. When Sharon Watts (Letitia Dean) wants to hold a 2004 Valentine's Day ball in the Community Centre. she needs to get an alcohol license, but Community Centre manager Derek Harkinson (Ian Lavender) is unable to obtain one due to a previous criminal conviction for growing cannabis. When Shaw discovers Derek's conviction, he sacks him, but is persuaded to reinstate him by Martin Fowler (James Alexandrou). He later obtains a license for the Community Centre himself. Jill Green 

Jill Green, played by Elizabeth Rider, is a nurse who works at Walford General Hospital. She first appears in February 2004 when Ronny Ferreira (Ray Panthaki) has a kidney transplant. She appears again in January 2007 after Deano Wicks (Matt Di Angelo) and Chelsea Fox (Tiana Benjamin) are in a car crash. She is seen again in May 2008 after Roxy Mitchell (Rita Simons) runs over Pat Evans (Pam St. Clement). JJ 

JJ, played by Daniel Anthony, is a teenage runaway who breaks into the Abercorn Bed & Breakfast, disturbing the proprietor Patrick Trueman (Rudolph Walker) and his fiancée, Yolande Duke (Angela Wynter). When confronted, JJ tells the couple that he is 16 and is living on the streets, so they soften, letting him stay when he offers to help out around the place. Patrick's stepson Paul Trueman (Gary Beadle) takes a dislike to JJ and is suspicious of him. When Yolande offers to wash JJ's jacket, he is evasive and it is revealed he stole some jewellery from her. Paul informs JJ's social worker, Mattie George (Chizzy Akudolu), who arrives to collect JJ and reveals he is only 14 and has run away from care. Patrick and Yolande are furious with Paul and later visit JJ in care and learn that his mother is in prison. This experience leads to their decision to foster. Wilfred Atkins

Wilfred Atkins, played by Dudley Sutton, is Nana Moon's (Hilda Braid) fiancée, whom she meets on the bus travelling to her holiday in Eastbourne. She brings him back to Walford in March 2004 to meet her grandsons Alfie and Spencer (Shane Richie and Christopher Parker). Alfie is cautious of Wilfred at first, thinking he is only interested in Nana's money, but Wilfred tells Alfie that he is rich and has fallen in love with Nana. Alfie's wife Kat (Jessie Wallace) later agrees that Wilfred can move into The Queen Victoria pub when he and Nana are married. Alfie is later enraged that Wilfred has not booked a honeymoon, and takes him to the travel agents to book one. Wilfred later admires the war medals of Nana's late husband William Moon (Dickon Tolson), then surprises Nana with the news that he has booked a honeymoon in the West Indies. Alfie welcomes him into the family. On his wedding day, Wilfred gets nervous and tries to run away, only to be caught by Alfie at Walford East station. He confides in Alfie that he is ill, and does not want Nana to become his nurse. Alfie agrees to let Wilfred leave, but when he hugs Wilfred he feels a sharp pain, and opens Wilfred's jacket to reveal William's medals. Wilfred is exposed as a con artist. Alfie does not want to have to break the news to his grandmother, so he takes Wilfred back to the pub, where he confesses to stealing the medals. Nana reveals that she knew all along and forgives Wilfred, but he flees Walford along with £30,000 that he has conned out of Pat Evans (Pam St. Clement). Chrissie Watts

Chrissie Watts, played by Tracy-Ann Oberman, first appears in April 2004 as the second wife of the show's "most enduring character", Den Watts (Leslie Grantham), becoming a prominent regular for the next 18 months. In 2005 she is the focus of one of "the programme's biggest and most high-profile narratives" when she kills her husband in a fit of rage during the special 20th anniversary episode. The broadcast, airing on 18 February, was watched by 14.34 million people, with "almost 60% of possible viewers" tuning in to see Chrissie take revenge. The character was credited by former head of BBC Drama Serials, Mal Young, as "anchoring the success of the anniversary storyline", and was described on the news programme BBC Breakfast as the "centrepiece" of the show, with the on-screen drama playing out over the course of the year and culminating in Chrissie's departure in December. Jane Beale

Jane Beale, played by Laurie Brett, makes her first appearance on 22 June 2004 and soon starts a romance with Ian Beale (Adam Woodyatt). Jane has an affair with Grant Mitchell (Ross Kemp), though her and Ian overcome this and marry in 2007. Soon after Steven Beale (Aaron Sidwell) returns to Walford soon after, and mistakenly shoots Jane in the stomach, leaving her unable to have children. Brett took maternity leave in 2011 and Jane departed on 19 May. Jane returned to screens on 8 November before departing the series on 27 January 2012.