[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: nanoparticle drug delivery tumor targeting cancer | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: nanoparticle drug delivery tumor targeting cancer]

67. Acta Biomater. 2025 Jan 1;191:412-427. doi: 10.1016/j.actbio.2024.11.036.
Epub  2024 Nov 22.

Engineering a nano-drug delivery system to regulate m6A modification and enhance 
immunotherapy in gastric cancer.

Li Z(1), Zhang X(2), Liu C(3), Wu Y(3), Wen Y(3), Zheng R(3), Xu C(3), Tian 
J(3), Peng Q(4), Zheng X(5), Wang J(6), Yan Q(7), Wei L(8), Ma J(9).

Author information:
(1)Hunan Cancer Hospital and the Affiliated Cancer Hospital of Xiangya School of 
Medicine, Central South University, Changsha, Hunan, China; Cancer Research 
Institute, School of Basic Medical Science, Central South University, Changsha, 
Hunan, China; Key Laboratory of Carcinogenesis and Cancer Invasion of the 
Chinese Ministry of Education, NHC Key Laboratory of Carcinogenesis, Hunan Key 
Laboratory of Nonresolving Inflammation and Cancer, Hunan Key Laboratory of 
Cancer Metabolism, Changsha, Hunan, China.
(2)Cancer Research Institute, School of Basic Medical Science, Central South 
University, Changsha, Hunan, China; Key Laboratory of Carcinogenesis and Cancer 
Invasion of the Chinese Ministry of Education, NHC Key Laboratory of 
Carcinogenesis, Hunan Key Laboratory of Nonresolving Inflammation and Cancer, 
Hunan Key Laboratory of Cancer Metabolism, Changsha, Hunan, China.
(3)Cancer Research Institute, School of Basic Medical Science, Central South 
University, Changsha, Hunan, China.
(4)Hunan Cancer Hospital and the Affiliated Cancer Hospital of Xiangya School of 
Medicine, Central South University, Changsha, Hunan, China.
(5)Department of Pathology, Affiliated Hospital of Guilin Medical University, 
Guilin, Guangxi, China.
(6)Department of Immunology, Changzhi Medical College, Changzhi, Shanxi, China.
(7)Department of Clinical Laboratory of Xiangya Hospital, Central South 
University, Changsha, Hunan, China.
(8)Laboratory of Clinical Research Center, Department of Pathology, Heping 
Hospital Affiliated to Changzhi Medical College, Changzhi, Shanxi, China. 
Electronic address: weilingyu0425@163.com.
(9)Hunan Cancer Hospital and the Affiliated Cancer Hospital of Xiangya School of 
Medicine, Central South University, Changsha, Hunan, China; Cancer Research 
Institute, School of Basic Medical Science, Central South University, Changsha, 
Hunan, China; Key Laboratory of Carcinogenesis and Cancer Invasion of the 
Chinese Ministry of Education, NHC Key Laboratory of Carcinogenesis, Hunan Key 
Laboratory of Nonresolving Inflammation and Cancer, Hunan Key Laboratory of 
Cancer Metabolism, Changsha, Hunan, China. Electronic address: 
majian@csu.edu.cn.

Erratum in
    Acta Biomater. 2025 Apr;196:532. doi: 10.1016/j.actbio.2025.01.056.

Cancer cell membrane-derived nanoparticle drug delivery system enables precise 
drug delivery to tumor tissues and is a new effective way to treat solid tumors. 
The aim of this study is to develop a safe and effective cancer cell 
membrane-derived nano-delivery system targeting gastric cancer. We previously 
reported that EPH receptor A2 (EphA2) is an important target for gastric cancer. 
RNA m6A methyltransferases METTL3 is upregulated in multiple cancers and 
promotes cancer development by increasing the expression of multiple oncogenes. 
We design a new nano-delivery system PLGA-STM-TAT: nanoparticles PLGA (poly 
lactic acid-hydroxyacetic acid) loaded with METTL3 inhibitor STM2457 and 
cell-penetrating peptide TAT, and then covered with gastric cancer cell 
membranes equipped with YSA peptides by means of click chemistry, which 
targeting EphA2. The nanoparticles are specifically enriched in gastric cancer 
tissues, significantly increased drug accumulation, and inhibited cancer cell 
proliferation by decreasing key oncogenes c-MYC and BRD4. During drug 
administration, we found that the expression of the immune checkpoint molecule 
PD-L1 was suppressed, and the anti-tumor immune effect was enhanced by the 
nano-delivery system in combination with anti-PD1. This cancer cell 
membrane-derived nano-delivery system provides a new biological strategy to 
treat gastric cancer through effective m6A modulation and EphA2 targeting. 
STATEMENT OF SIGNIFICANCE: M6A modifications have important biological roles, 
especially in tumors. Targeting highly modified m6A in gastric cancer becomes a 
challenge. We developed a nano-drug delivery system for modulating m6A that 
could produce an effective anti-cancer therapeutic effect and that the 
nanoparticles enhanced antitumor immunity when combined with anti-PD1.This 
cancer cell membrane-derived new nano-drug delivery system shows great promise 
as an antitumor approach by modulating m6A modification and targeting EphA2 in 
gastric cancers.

Copyright © 2024 Acta Materialia Inc. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.actbio.2024.11.036
PMID: 39581334 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.