[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: herbal medicine drug interaction pharmacokinetics | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: herbal medicine drug interaction pharmacokinetics]

16. J Ethnopharmacol. 2015 Mar 13;162:369-76. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2015.01.010.
Epub  2015 Jan 19.

Herb-drug interaction between an anti-HIV Chinese herbal SH formula and 
atazanavir in vitro and in vivo.

Cheng BH(1), Zhou X(1), Wang Y(2), Chan JY(1), Lin HQ(1), Or PM(3), Wan DC(3), 
Leung PC(1), Fung KP(4), Wang YF(5), Lau CB(6).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Chinese Medicine, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shatin, 
N.T., Hong Kong SAR, China; State Key Laboratory of Phytochemistry and Plant 
Resources in West China, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shatin, N.T., Hong 
Kong SAR, China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Bioactive Substances and Functions of Natural 
Medicines, Institute of Materia Medica, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences, 
Beijing 100050, China.
(3)School of Biomedical Sciences, Faculty of Medicine, The Chinese University of 
Hong Kong, Shatin, N.T., Hong Kong SAR, China.
(4)Institute of Chinese Medicine, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shatin, 
N.T., Hong Kong SAR, China; State Key Laboratory of Phytochemistry and Plant 
Resources in West China, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shatin, N.T., Hong 
Kong SAR, China; School of Biomedical Sciences, Faculty of Medicine, The Chinese 
University of Hong Kong, Shatin, N.T., Hong Kong SAR, China.
(5)State Key Laboratory of Phytochemistry and Plant Resources in West China, 
Kunming Institute of Botany, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Kunming 650201, China.
(6)Institute of Chinese Medicine, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shatin, 
N.T., Hong Kong SAR, China; State Key Laboratory of Phytochemistry and Plant 
Resources in West China, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shatin, N.T., Hong 
Kong SAR, China. Electronic address: claralau@cuhk.edu.hk.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: With the prevalent use of highly active 
antiretroviral therapy (HAART) for AIDS patients since 1996, the mortality of 
HIV/AIDS patients has been remarkably decreased. With long-term use of HAART, 
drug resistance and side effects of antiretrovirals have been frequently 
reported, which not only reduce the efficacy, but also decreases the tolerance 
of patients. Traditional herbal medicine has become more popular among HIV/AIDS 
patients as adjuvant therapy to reduce these adverse effects of HAART. SH 
formula is a Chinese herbal formula consisting of five traditional Chinese herbs 
including Morus alba L., Glycyrrhiza glabra L., Artemisia capillaris Thumb., 
Astragalus membranaceus Bge., and Carthamus tinctorius L. SH formula is 
clinically used for HIV treatment in Thailand. However, the possible 
pharmacokinetic interactions between these Chinese herbs and antiretroviral 
drugs have not been well documented. The aim of this study was to investigate 
the potential herb-drug interaction between SH herbal Chinese formula and the 
antiretroviral drug atazanavir (ATV).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The combination effect of SH formula and ATV on HIV 
protease was studied in HIV-1 protease inhibition assay in vitro. The inhibition 
of SH formula on rat CYP3A2 was assessed by detecting the formation of 1'-OH 
midazolam from midazolam in rat liver microsomes in vitro. The in vivo 
pharmacokinetic interaction between SH formula and ATV was investigated by 
measuring time-dependent plasma concentrations of ATV in male Sprague-Dawley 
rats with liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry.
RESULTS: Through the in vitro HIV-1 protease inhibition assay, combination of SH 
formula (41.7-166.7 μg/ml) and ATV (16.7-33.3 ng/ml) showed additive inhibition 
on HIV-1 protease activity than SH formula or ATV used alone. In vitro 
incubation assay indicated that SH formula showed a weak inhibition (IC50=231.2 
µg/ml; Ki=98.2 µg/ml) on CYP3A2 activity in rat liver microsomes. In vivo 
pharmacokinetic study demonstrated that SH formula did not affect the metabolism 
of ATV in rats.
CONCLUSIONS: Our study demonstrated for the first time that there is no 
metabolism-based herb-drug interaction between SH formula and ATV in rats, but 
this combination enhances the inhibition potentials against HIV protease 
activity. This observation may support the combinational use of anti-HIV 
treatment in human.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2015.01.010
PMID: 25614104 [Indexed for MEDLINE]