[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: herbal medicine drug interaction pharmacokinetics | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: herbal medicine drug interaction pharmacokinetics]

83. Phytomedicine. 2017 Mar 15;26:62-68. doi: 10.1016/j.phymed.2017.01.010. Epub 
2017 Jan 24.

Pharmacokinetic herb-drug interaction of Xuesaitong dispersible tablet and 
aspirin after oral administration in blood stasis model rats.

Dai G(1), Jiang Z(2), Bai Y(1), Zhang Q(1), Zhu L(3), Bai X(4), Ju W(5), Pan 
R(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Pharmacology, Affiliated Hospital of Nanjing 
University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Nanjing, China.
(2)Department of Pharmacy Office, Zhangjiagang Hospital of Traditional Chinese 
Medicine affiliated to Nanjing University of Chinese Medicine, Zhangjiagang, 
China.
(3)Department of gastroenterology, Affiliated Hospital of Nanjing University of 
Traditional Chinese Medicine, Nanjing, China.
(4)Department of Nephrology, Liyang Hospital of Traditional Chinese Medicine, 
Liyang, China.
(5)Department of Clinical Pharmacology, Affiliated Hospital of Nanjing 
University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Nanjing, China. Electronic address: 
juwz333@hotmail.com.
(6)Department of Nephrology, Liyang Hospital of Traditional Chinese Medicine, 
Liyang, China. Electronic address: prh64@sohu.com.

BACKGROUND: Xuesaitong dispersible tablet (XST) product has been clinically 
proven to be effective for treating cardio-cerebrovascular disease. Furthermore, 
herb-drug interactions between the XST product and drugs that are commonly 
co-administered, such as aspirin (ASA), must be explored to ensure safe clinical 
use.
STUDY DESIGN AND METHODS: The current study aims to investigate whether the XST 
product interacts with ASA when they are administered concomitantly to ensure 
safety and efficacy. A ultra-high performance liquid chromatography-tandem mass 
spectrometry (UHPLC-MS/MS) method was developed for the simultaneous 
determination of ginsenoside Rg1 (Rg1), ginsenoside Rd (Rd), notoginsenoside R1 
(R1) and salicylic acid (SA) in rat plasma to investigate the pharmacokinetic 
interaction of XST and ASA in blood stasis model rats.
RESULTS AND CONCLUSION: The ASA and XST combination noticeably altered R1 and 
Rg1 absorption, distribution and disposition. This study indicates that 
co-administration of XST and ASA can cause an apparent herb-drug pharmacokinetic 
interaction in blood stasis model rats.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.phymed.2017.01.010
PMID: 28257666 [Indexed for MEDLINE]