[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: magnetic resonance spectroscopy metabolite brain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: magnetic resonance spectroscopy metabolite brain]

55. Neuroimage. 2021 Jul 1;234:117981. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2021.117981.
Epub  2021 Mar 21.

Compartmental diffusion and microstructural properties of human brain gray and 
white matter studied with double diffusion encoding magnetic resonance 
spectroscopy of metabolites and water.

Lundell H(1), Najac C(2), Bulk M(2), Kan HE(2), Webb AG(2), Ronen I(2).

Author information:
(1)Danish Research Centre for Magnetic Resonance, Copenhagen University Hospital 
Hvidovre, Centre for Functional and Diagnostic Imaging and Research, Kettegaards 
Allé 30, 2650 Hvidovre, Denmark. Electronic address: lundell@drcmr.dk.
(2)C.J. Gorter Center for High Field MRI, Department of Radiology, Leiden 
University Medical Center, Albinusdreef 2, 2333 ZA Leiden, The Netherlands.

Double diffusion encoding (DDE) of the water signal offers a unique ability to 
separate the effect of microscopic anisotropic diffusion in structural units of 
tissue from the overall macroscopic orientational distribution of cells. 
However, the specificity in detected microscopic anisotropy is limited as the 
signal is averaged over different cell types and across tissue compartments. 
Performing side-by-side water and metabolite DDE spectroscopic (DDES) 
experiments provides complementary measures from which intracellular and 
extracellular microscopic fractional anisotropies (μFA) and diffusivities can be 
estimated. Metabolites are largely confined to the intracellular space and 
therefore provide a benchmark for intracellular μFA and diffusivities of 
specific cell types. By contrast, water DDES measurements allow examination of 
the separate contributions to water μFA and diffusivity from the intra- and 
extracellular spaces, by using a wide range of b values to gradually eliminate 
the extracellular contribution. Here, we aimed to estimate tissue and 
compartment specific human brain microstructure by combining water and 
metabolites DDES experiments. We performed our DDES measurements in two brain 
regions that contain widely different amounts of white matter (WM) and gray 
matter (GM): parietal white matter (PWM) and occipital gray matter (OGM) in a 
total of 20 healthy volunteers at 7 Tesla. Metabolite DDES measurements were 
performed at b = 7199 s/mm2, while water DDES measurements were performed with a 
range of b values from 918 to 7199 s/mm2. The experimental framework we employed 
here resulted in a set of insights pertaining to the morphology of the 
intracellular and extracellular spaces in both gray and white matter. Results of 
the metabolite DDES experiments in both PWM and OGM suggest a highly anisotropic 
intracellular space within neurons and glia, with the possible exception of gray 
matter glia. The water μFA obtained from the DDES results at high b values in 
both regions converged with that of the metabolite DDES, suggesting that the 
signal from the extracellular space is indeed effectively suppressed at the 
highest b value. The μFA measured in the OGM significantly decreased at lower b 
values, suggesting a considerably lower anisotropy of the extracellular space in 
GM compared to WM. In PWM, the water μFA remained high even at the lowest b 
value, indicating a high degree of organization in the interstitial space in WM. 
Tortuosity values in the cytoplasm for water and tNAA, obtained with correlation 
analysis of microscopic parallel diffusivity with respect to GM/WM tissue 
fraction in the volume of interest, are remarkably similar for both molecules, 
while exhibiting a clear difference between gray and white matter, suggesting a 
more crowded cytoplasm and more complex cytomorphology of neuronal cell bodies 
and dendrites in GM than those found in long-range axons in WM.

Copyright © 2021. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2021.117981
PMCID: PMC8204266
PMID: 33757904 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest None.