[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: Solidarity economy | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Solidarity economy — Overview

be appropriate, whereas others seem to be less effective for the social economy, due to its increased heterogeneity of initiatives. Social economy businesses Social economy businesses (SEB) are situated at the overlap of the social economy and the private sector. This kind of hybrid organisations earn all or some part of their income from the marketplace and they may be in competition with private sector organisations. As many businesses that are primarily viewed as part of a private sector have modified their business imperatives and taken on social business models, it can sometimes be difficult to distinguish between private sector and social economy businesses. The main difference with private sector organisations is that SEB are guided by social objectives that are reflected in their business mission and strategies and built into their structure. In other words, in case of SEB the prerogatives of capital do not dominate over the social objectives in the organization's decision making. Examples of organizations 
The term social and solidarity economy alludes to a wide scope of organizations that are recognized from ordinary revenue driven venture, business and casual economy by two center highlights. To start with, they have unequivocal monetary and social (and frequently ecological) goals. Second, they include differing types of co-employable, affiliated and solidarity relations. They include the following examples:

 Fair trade organizations form part of the solidarity economy, as their aim is to express practical solidarity with farmers in the developing world by paying them fair prices for their produce. Self-help organizations also form part of the solidarity economy as members support each other in dealing with their problems as a practical form of solidarity. Co-operatives and especially worker cooperatives form part of the solidarity economy if their aims include a commitment to solidarity in some form. Trade unions are often considered a key part of the solidarity economy as they are based on the principle of solidarity between workers. Free software movement, open-source development, and other forms of commons-based peer production
 Social center
 Give-away shops and other forms of gift economy
 Global Social Economy Forum
 Local exchange trading systems (LETS) as a way of replacing money. Solidarity lending
 Ethical purchasing
 Economy for the Common Good
Trade School, a Participatory art project co-founded by Caroline Woolard, where participants barter materials, ideas, and services for knowledge. Solidarity Economy Networks, such as the U.S. Solidarity Economy Network (USSEN), co-founded by Julie Matthaei (professor of economics with a focus on feminist economics and the political economy of gender, race and class at Wellesley College)

See also 
 Criticism of capitalism
 Gift economy
 History of the Co-operative Movement
 Mutual aid (organization theory)
 Socialist economics

References

External links 
 RIPESS - Intercontinental Network for the Promotion of Social Solidarity Economy 
 Haverford College Solidarity Economy Resources 
 "Feminism and Revolution: Looking Back, Looking Ahead"
 Why we need solidarity economy? The Law on the Social and Solidarity Economy (SSE), France 
 Global Action to promote Social and Solidarity Economy Ecosystems

 
Democracy
Humanism
Economic policy