[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: ethnobotany traditional medicine biological activi | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: ethnobotany traditional medicine biological activity]

70. J Ethnopharmacol. 2022 Jan 30;283:114564. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2021.114564.
Epub  2021 Aug 24.

Invasive alien plants and weeds in South Africa: A review of their applications 
in traditional medicine and potential pharmaceutical properties.

McGaw LJ(1), Omokhua-Uyi AG(2), Finnie JF(3), Van Staden J(4).

Author information:
(1)Research Centre for Plant Growth and Development, School of Life Sciences, 
University of KwaZulu-Natal Pietermaritzburg, Private Bag X01, Scottsville 3201, 
South Africa; Phytomedicine Programme, Department of Paraclinical Sciences, 
Faculty of Veterinary Science, University of Pretoria, Private Bag X04, 
Onderstepoort, 0110, Pretoria, South Africa. Electronic address: 
lyndy.mcgaw@up.ac.za.
(2)Research Centre for Plant Growth and Development, School of Life Sciences, 
University of KwaZulu-Natal Pietermaritzburg, Private Bag X01, Scottsville 3201, 
South Africa; Phytomedicine Programme, Department of Paraclinical Sciences, 
Faculty of Veterinary Science, University of Pretoria, Private Bag X04, 
Onderstepoort, 0110, Pretoria, South Africa. Electronic address: 
giftomokhua@yahoo.com.
(3)Research Centre for Plant Growth and Development, School of Life Sciences, 
University of KwaZulu-Natal Pietermaritzburg, Private Bag X01, Scottsville 3201, 
South Africa. Electronic address: finnie@ukzn.ac.za.
(4)Research Centre for Plant Growth and Development, School of Life Sciences, 
University of KwaZulu-Natal Pietermaritzburg, Private Bag X01, Scottsville 3201, 
South Africa. Electronic address: rcpgd@ukzn.ac.za.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Traditional pharmacopoeias are constantly 
evolving and adapting, hence the assimilation of alien plants and weeds into 
traditional systems of healing. Invasive plants are detrimental to the 
ecosystem, however they are also potential sources of secondary metabolites with 
useful biological activities.
AIM OF THE REVIEW: The aim of this review was to investigate published reports 
of traditional use and biological activity of declared invasive alien plants and 
other weeds in South Africa.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Information was retrieved from scientific databases 
including Scopus, Web of Science, ScienceDirect, Google Scholar, PubMed, 
Chemical Abstracts Services and books, theses, dissertations and technical 
reports. Keywords used for the search engines were "South Africa" or "southern 
Africa" in conjunction with "(native weeds OR alien invasive)" AND "medicinal". 
Separate searches were conducted on the individual invasive plant species 
recorded as having been used in ethnobotanical surveys to determine their known 
biological activities and chemical components.
RESULTS: A total of 89 plant species regarded as invasive species or weeds in 
South Africa were identified as being used in traditional medicine. The most 
commonly mentioned plant family was the Asteraceae with a total of 15 species 
followed by the Fabaceae and Solanaceae with 6 species each. Of the 89 species 
recorded, 68% were reported to have traditional usage with both phytochemical 
and biological data available. A history of traditional usage coupled with 
biological data was available for 12% of species. Records of traditional usage 
alone were linked to 11% of species. Invasive alien species comprised 61% of 
recorded species, while native and non-invasive alien weeds formed the remaining 
39%.
CONCLUSIONS: The exploration of alternative uses for weeds and particularly 
invasive plants, whether native or alien, as medicines for possible 
commercialisation may lead to innovative mechanisms for putting such species to 
good use.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2021.114564
PMID: 34438034 [Indexed for MEDLINE]