[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: crystal structure protein drug target binding | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: crystal structure protein drug target binding]

67. Protein Sci. 2014 Mar;23(3):289-301. doi: 10.1002/pro.2411. Epub 2014 Jan 31.

Crystal structures of the fungal pathogen Aspergillus fumigatus protein 
farnesyltransferase complexed with substrates and inhibitors reveal features for 
antifungal drug design.

Mabanglo MF(1), Hast MA, Lubock NB, Hellinga HW, Beese LS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, North 
Carolina, 27710.

Species of the fungal genus Aspergillus are significant human and agricultural 
pathogens that are often refractory to existing antifungal treatments. Protein 
farnesyltransferase (FTase), a critical enzyme in eukaryotes, is an attractive 
potential target for antifungal drug discovery. We report high-resolution 
structures of A. fumigatus FTase (AfFTase) in complex with substrates and 
inhibitors. Comparison of structures with farnesyldiphosphate (FPP) bound in the 
absence or presence of peptide substrate, corresponding to successive steps in 
ordered substrate binding, revealed that the second substrate-binding step is 
accompanied by motions of a loop in the catalytic site. Re-examination of other 
FTase structures showed that this motion is conserved. The substrate- and 
product-binding clefts in the AfFTase active site are wider than in human FTase 
(hFTase). Widening is a consequence of small shifts in the α-helices that 
comprise the majority of the FTase structure, which in turn arise from sequence 
variation in the hydrophobic core of the protein. These structural effects are 
key features that distinguish fungal FTases from hFTase. Their variation results 
in differences in steady-state enzyme kinetics and inhibitor interactions and 
presents opportunities for developing selective anti-fungal drugs by exploiting 
size differences in the active sites. We illustrate the latter by comparing the 
interaction of ED5 and Tipifarnib with hFTase and AfFTase. In AfFTase, the wider 
groove enables ED5 to bind in the presence of FPP, whereas in hFTase it binds 
only in the absence of substrate. Tipifarnib binds similarly to both enzymes but 
makes less extensive contacts in AfFTase with consequently weaker binding.

© 2013 The Protein Society.

DOI: 10.1002/pro.2411
PMCID: PMC3945837
PMID: 24347326 [Indexed for MEDLINE]