[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: magnetic resonance spectroscopy metabolite brain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: magnetic resonance spectroscopy metabolite brain]

97. Rev Invest Clin. 2015 Jul-Aug;67(4):227-34.

Proton Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy Changes in Parkinson's Disease With and 
Without Psychosis.

Rodríguez-Violante M(1)(2), Cervantes-Arriaga A(1), González-Latapí P(1), 
León-Ortiz P(3), de la Fuente-Sandoval C(3)(4), Corona T(1).

Author information:
(1)Clinical Neurodegenerative Disease Research Unit, Instituto Nacional de 
Neurología y Neurocirugía, México, D.F., México.
(2)Movement Disorders Clinic, Instituto Nacional de Neurología y Neurocirugía, 
México, D.F., México.
(3)Laboratory of Experimental Psychiatry, Instituto Nacional de Neurología y 
Neurocirugía, México, D.F., México.
(4)Neuropsychiatry Department, Instituto Nacional de Neurología y Neurocirugía, 
México, D.F., México.

BACKGROUND: Psychosis prevalence in Parkinson's disease is estimated at 8-30%. 
Proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy measures specific metabolites as markers 
of cell functioning.
OBJECTIVE: To study N-acetyl-aspartate and glutamate levels in the caudate and 
putamen nuclei in subjects with Parkinson's disease with and without psychosis.
METHODS: We included 20 non-demented Parkinson's disease patients with psychosis 
and 20 Parkinson's disease patients without psychosis matched for age, sex, 
disease duration, and levodopa equivalent daily dose, all attended at an 
academic medical center. Proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy scans were 
performed in a 3T GE whole-body scanner.
RESULTS: Decreased glutamate levels scaled to creatine were found in the dorsal 
caudate (p = 0.005) and putamen (p = 0.007) of the Parkinson's disease psychosis 
group compared with the without psychosis group. Glutamate plus glutamine levels 
scaled to creatine and N-acetyl-aspartate levels scaled to creatine were also 
significantly reduced in the dorsal caudate of the Parkinson's disease with 
psychosis group (p = 0.018 and p = 0.011, respectively). No group differences 
were found for any of the other metabolites in the two regions of interest.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings suggest that decreased metabolite levels in specific 
brain areas may be implicated in the development of psychosis in Parkinson's 
disease.

PMID: 26426588 [Indexed for MEDLINE]