[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: low-level laser therapy wound healing pain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: low-level laser therapy wound healing pain]

9. J Am Acad Dermatol. 2025 Aug;93(2):429-443. doi: 10.1016/j.jaad.2025.04.031. 
Epub 2025 Apr 17.

Evidence-based consensus on the clinical application of photobiomodulation.

Maghfour J(1), Mineroff J(2), Ozog DM(3), Jagdeo J(2), Lim HW(4), Kohli I(5), 
Anderson R(6), Kelly KM(7), Mamalis A(8), Munavalli G(9), Cleber F(10), Siegel 
D(2), Geneva I(11), Weiss R(12), Morita A(13), Juanita A(14), Goldman MP(15), 
Arany PR(16), Sliney D(17), Ibrahimi OA(18), Chopp M(19), Esmat S(20), Tuner 
J(21).

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, Henry Ford Health, Detroit, Michigan.
(2)Department of Dermatology, State University of New York, Downstate Health 
Sciences University, Brooklyn, New York.
(3)Department of Dermatology, Henry Ford Health, Detroit, Michigan; Department 
of Dermatology, College of Human Medicine, Michigan State University, East 
Lansing, Michigan; The Henry W Lim, MD, Division of Photobiology and 
Photomedicine, Department of Dermatology, Henry Ford Health, Detroit, Michigan. 
Electronic address: dozog1@hfhs.org.
(4)Department of Dermatology, Henry Ford Health, Detroit, Michigan; Department 
of Dermatology, College of Human Medicine, Michigan State University, East 
Lansing, Michigan; The Henry W Lim, MD, Division of Photobiology and 
Photomedicine, Department of Dermatology, Henry Ford Health, Detroit, Michigan.
(5)The Henry W Lim, MD, Division of Photobiology and Photomedicine, Department 
of Dermatology, Henry Ford Health, Detroit, Michigan.
(6)Wellman Center for Photomedicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, 
Massachusetts.
(7)Department of Dermatology, University of California-Irvine, Irvine, 
California.
(8)Dermatology, Kaiser Permanent, Modesto, California.
(9)Dermatology Laser & Vein Specialists of the Carolinas, Charlotte, North 
Carolina.
(10)Department of Physical Therapy, Postgraduate Program in Physical Therapy, 
Federal University of Sao Carlos, Sao Paulo, Brazil.
(11)Department of Internal Medicine, Crouse Health Hospital, Syracruse, New 
York.
(12)Maryland Dermatology Laser, Skin and Vein Institute, Hunt Valley, Maryland; 
Department of Dermatology, University of Maryland, College Park, Maryland.
(13)Department of Geriatric and Environmental Dermatology, Nagoya City 
University Graduate School of Medical Sciences, Nagoya, Japan.
(14)Department of Anatomy, Physiology and Genetics, Uniformed Services 
University of the Health, Bethesda, Maryland.
(15)Department of Dermatology, University of California San Diego, La Jolla, 
California.
(16)Department of Oral Biology, Bioengineering and Surgery, University at 
Buffalo School of Dental Medicine, Buffalo, New York.
(17)Department of Public Health, John Hopkins School of Medicine, Baltimore, 
Maryland.
(18)Medical Director, Connecticut Skin Institute, Stamford, Connecticut.
(19)Department of Neurology, Zolton J Kovacs Chair in Neuroscience Research, 
Henry Ford Health, Detroit, Michigan.
(20)Department of Dermatology, Cairo University, Cairo, Egypt.
(21)Department of Dentistry, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden.

BACKGROUND: There is a lack of evidence-based consensus to assist clinicians in 
using photobiomodulation (PBM).
OBJECTIVE: To create a consensus on the safe and effective use of PBM.
METHODS: A systematic literature review of Embase and MEDLINE was conducted in 
June 2022 to identify publications reporting research on PBM. An international 
multidisciplinary panel was convened to draft recommendations informed by the 
systematic search; they were refined through 2 rounds of Delphi survey, 2 
consensus meetings, and iterative review by all panelists until unanimous 
consensus was achieved.
RESULTS: A multidisciplinary panel of experts (n = 21) was assembled based on 
publication history. The key findings that informed the consensus developed by 
the expert panel were as follows: PBM is a safe treatment modality for adult 
patients and red light PBM does not induce DNA damage. PBM is an effective 
treatment option for peripheral neuropathy, androgenic alopecia, wound ulcers 
due to multiple etiologies, decubitus ulcers, pain attributed to diabetic foot 
ulcers, and acute radiation dermatitis.
CONCLUSION: The systematic literature search and structured Delphi consensus 
approach culminated in an evidence-based clinical practice guideline for safe 
and effective use of PBM in medical and aesthetic applications. Future research 
will further bolster our understanding of this evolving noninvasive technique.

Copyright © 2025 American Academy of Dermatology, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jaad.2025.04.031
PMID: 40253006 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interest Dr Siegel serves as a 
member of the advisory scientific board of Omnilux. Dr Goldman is an 
investigator for Biofrontera and Accure. Dr Kelly was a formal primary 
investigator of Biophotas. Dr Arany serves as a consultant for Summus Medical 
Laser, founder of Directed Energy Therapeutics, and OptiMed Technologies Inc. 
The remaining authors have no relevant conflicts of interest to declare.