[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: herbal medicine drug interaction pharmacokinetics | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: herbal medicine drug interaction pharmacokinetics]

28. J Chromatogr B Analyt Technol Biomed Life Sci. 2016 Jul 15;1026:236-253. doi:
 10.1016/j.jchromb.2015.11.024. Epub 2015 Nov 26.

Transporter modulation by Chinese herbal medicines and its mediated 
pharmacokinetic herb-drug interactions.

Wu X(1), Ma J(1), Ye Y(2), Lin G(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Biomedical Sciences, Faculty of Medicine, The Chinese University of 
Hong Kong, Hong Kong; Joint Research Laboratory for Promoting Globalization of 
Traditional Chinese Medicines Between Shanghai Institute of Materia Medica, 
China Academy of Sciences and The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong.
(2)Joint Research Laboratory for Promoting Globalization of Traditional Chinese 
Medicines Between Shanghai Institute of Materia Medica, China Academy of 
Sciences and The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong; Shanghai Institute 
of Materia Medica, China Academy of Sciences, China.
(3)School of Biomedical Sciences, Faculty of Medicine, The Chinese University of 
Hong Kong, Hong Kong; Joint Research Laboratory for Promoting Globalization of 
Traditional Chinese Medicines Between Shanghai Institute of Materia Medica, 
China Academy of Sciences and The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong. 
Electronic address: linge@cuhk.edu.hk.

The increasing use of Chinese herbal medicines (CHMs) as complementary therapy 
and dietary supplement has been greatly raising the concerns about potential 
herb-drug interactions (HDIs). HDIs may cause the augmented or antagonized 
effects of prescription drugs, resulting in unexpected clinical outcomes. 
Therefore, it is of significance to identify or predict potential HDIs, and to 
delineate the underlying mechanisms. Drug transporters play key roles in 
transmembrane passage of a large number of drugs, affecting their absorption, 
distribution and elimination. Modulation of drug transporters has been 
recognized as one of the main causes of HDIs. In the last decade, a growing 
number of Chinese medicinal herbs and their derived phytochemicals have been 
identified to have modulatory effect toward transporter proteins, leading to 
pharmacokinetic HDIs when concomitantly used with conventional drugs. Some of 
these transporter-mediated interactions have already shown clinical 
significance. This review article focuses on two major transporter 
superfamilies, the solute carrier (SLC) and the ATP-binding cassette (ABC) 
transporters, to provide the recent advanced knowledge on CHMs and their 
inherent phytochemicals that interact with these transporters, and their induced 
pharmacokinetic HDIs from both preclinical and clinical aspects. In addition, 
the challenges and strategy for studying HDIs are also discussed.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jchromb.2015.11.024
PMID: 26675080 [Indexed for MEDLINE]