[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: Charge (physics) | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Charge (physics) — Overview

algebra; here, it is the energy–momentum tensor of the two-dimensional conformal field theory. In gravitation: Eigenvalues of the energy–momentum tensor correspond to physical mass. Charge conjugation In the formalism of particle theories, charge-like quantum numbers can sometimes be inverted by means of a charge conjugation operator called C. Charge conjugation simply means that a given symmetry group occurs in two inequivalent (but still isomorphic) group representations. It is usually the case that the two charge-conjugate representations are complex conjugate fundamental representations of the Lie group. Their product then forms the adjoint representation of the group. Thus, a common example is that the product of two charge-conjugate fundamental representations of SL(2,C) (the spinors) forms the adjoint rep of the Lorentz group SO(3,1); abstractly, one writes

That is, the product of two (Lorentz) spinors is a (Lorentz) vector and a (Lorentz) scalar. Note that the complex Lie algebra sl(2,C) has a compact real form su(2) (in fact, all Lie algebras have a unique compact real form). The same decomposition holds for the compact form as well: the product of two spinors in su(2) being a vector in the rotation group O(3) and a singlet. The decomposition is given by the Clebsch–Gordan coefficients. A similar phenomenon occurs in the compact group SU(3), where there are two charge-conjugate but inequivalent fundamental representations, dubbed  and , the number 3 denoting the dimension of the representation, and with the quarks transforming under  and the antiquarks transforming under . The Kronecker product of the two gives

That is, an eight-dimensional representation, the octet of the eight-fold way, and a singlet. The decomposition of such products of representations into direct sums of irreducible representations can in general be written as

for representations . The dimensions of the representations obey the "dimension sum rule":

Here,  is the dimension of the representation , and the integers  being the Littlewood–Richardson coefficients. The decomposition of the representations is again given by the Clebsch–Gordan coefficients, this time in the general Lie-algebra setting. See also
 Casimir operator

References

Electromagnetism
Quantum chromodynamics
Physical quantities