[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: magnetic nanoparticle hyperthermia cancer therapy | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: magnetic nanoparticle hyperthermia cancer therapy]

84. Adv Drug Deliv Rev. 2020;163-164:65-83. doi: 10.1016/j.addr.2020.06.025. Epub
 2020 Jun 27.

Cancer therapy with iron oxide nanoparticles: Agents of thermal and immune 
therapies.

Soetaert F(1), Korangath P(2), Serantes D(3), Fiering S(4), Ivkov R(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Electrical Energy, Metals, Mechanical Constructions and 
Systems, Ghent University, Belgium; Department of Radiation Oncology and 
Molecular Radiation Sciences, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, 
Baltimore, MD 21231, USA.
(2)Department of Radiation Oncology and Molecular Radiation Sciences, Johns 
Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD 21231, USA.
(3)Department of Applied Physics and Instituto de Investigacións Tecnolóxicas, 
Universidade de Santiago de Compostela, Santiago de Compostela 15782, Spain.
(4)Geisel School of Medicine, Dartmouth College, Lebanon, NH 03756, USA.
(5)Department of Radiation Oncology and Molecular Radiation Sciences, Johns 
Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD 21231, USA; Department of 
Oncology, Sidney Kimmel Comprehensive Cancer Centre, School of Medicine, Johns 
Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD 21231, USA; Department of Materials Science 
and Engineering, Whiting School of Engineering, Johns Hopkins University, 
Baltimore 21218, USA; Department of Mechanical Engineering, Whiting School of 
Engineering, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore 21218, USA. Electronic address: 
rivkov1@jhmi.edu.

Significant research and preclinical investment in cancer nanomedicine has 
produced several products, which have improved cancer care. Nevertheless, there 
exists a perception that cancer nanomedicine 'has not lived up to its promise' 
because the number of approved products and their clinical performance are 
modest. Many of these analyses do not consider the long clinical history and 
many clinical products developed from iron oxide nanoparticles. Iron oxide 
nanoparticles have enjoyed clinical use for about nine decades demonstrating 
safety, and considerable clinical utility and versatility. FDA-approved 
applications of iron oxide nanoparticles include cancer diagnosis, cancer 
hyperthermia therapy, and iron deficiency anemia. For cancer nanomedicine, this 
wealth of clinical experience is invaluable to provide key lessons and highlight 
pitfalls in the pursuit of nanotechnology-based cancer therapeutics. We review 
the clinical experience with systemic liposomal drug delivery and parenteral 
therapy of iron deficiency anemia (IDA) with iron oxide nanoparticles. We note 
that the clinical success of injectable iron exploits the inherent interaction 
between nanoparticles and the (innate) immune system, which designers of 
liposomal drug delivery seek to avoid. Magnetic fluid hyperthermia, a cancer 
therapy that harnesses magnetic hysteresis heating is approved for treating 
humans only with iron oxide nanoparticles. Despite its successful demonstration 
to enhance overall survival in clinical trials, this nanotechnology-based 
thermal medicine struggles to establish a clinical presence. We review the 
physical and biological attributes of this approach, and suggest reasons for 
barriers to its acceptance. Finally, despite the extensive clinical experience 
with iron oxide nanoparticles new and exciting research points to surprising 
immune-modulating potential. Recent data demonstrate the interactions between 
immune cells and iron oxide nanoparticles can induce anti-tumor immune 
responses. These present new and exciting opportunities to explore additional 
applications with this venerable technology. Clinical applications of iron oxide 
nanoparticles present poignant case studies of the opportunities, complexities, 
and challenges in cancer nanomedicine. They also illustrate the need for revised 
paradigms and multidisciplinary approaches to develop and translate 
nanomedicines into clinical cancer care.

Copyright © 2020 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.addr.2020.06.025
PMCID: PMC7736167
PMID: 32603814 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest R.I. is an 
inventor on nanoparticle patents, and all these patents are assigned to either 
The Johns Hopkins University or Aduro BioTech, Inc. R.I. consults for Imagion 
Biosystems, a company developing imaging with magnetic iron oxide nanoparticles. 
All other authors report no conflicts of interest.