[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS neurology | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS neurology]

76. Clin Neurophysiol. 2017 Oct;128(10):1971-1977. doi: 
10.1016/j.clinph.2017.07.410. Epub 2017 Aug 3.

Cortical involvement in myopathies: Insights from transcranial magnetic 
stimulation.

Nardone R(1), Versace V(2), Sebastianelli L(2), Brigo F(3), Golaszewski S(4), 
Christova M(5), Gallasch E(6), Saltuari L(7), Trinka E(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Franz Tappeiner Hospital, Merano, Italy; Department 
of Neurology, Christian Doppler Klinik, Paracelsus Medical University, Salzburg, 
Austria. Electronic address: raffaele.nardone@asbmeran-o.it.
(2)Department of Neurorehabilitation, Hospital of Vipiteno, and Research 
Department for Neurorehabilitation South Tyrol, Bolzano, Italy.
(3)Department of Neurology, Franz Tappeiner Hospital, Merano, Italy; Department 
of Neuroscience, Biomedicine and Movement Science, University of Verona, Italy.
(4)Department of Neurology, Christian Doppler Klinik, Paracelsus Medical 
University, Salzburg, Austria.
(5)Department of Physiology, Medical University of Graz, Austria; Department of 
Physiotherapy, University of Applied Sciences FH-Joanneum, Austria.
(6)Department of Physiology, Medical University of Graz, Austria.
(7)Department of Neurorehabilitation, Hospital of Vipiteno, and Research 
Department for Neurorehabilitation South Tyrol, Bolzano, Italy; Department of 
Neurology, Hochzirl Hospital, Zirl, Austria.
(8)Department of Neurology, Christian Doppler Klinik, Paracelsus Medical 
University, Salzburg, Austria; Centre for Cognitive Neurosciences Salzburg, 
Salzburg, Austria; University for Medical Informatics and Health Technology, 
UMIT, Hall in Tirol, Austria.

OBJECTIVE: There is increasing evidence that an involvement of central nervous 
system (CNS) can occur in several myopathies. Transcranial magnetic stimulation 
(TMS) may represent a valuable tool for investigating important 
neurophysiological and pathophysiological aspects of cortical involvement in 
neuromuscular disorders. In this review paper we aimed to perform a systematic 
search of the studies employing TMS techniques in subjects suffering from 
myopathies.
METHODS: A literature search was conducted using PubMed and Embase. We 
identified and reviewed 9 articles matching the inclusion criteria. One hundred 
twenty patients were included in these studies, which have applied TMS in 
patients with muscle disorders.
RESULTS: To date, a few studies using TMS have been performed in myopathic 
patients and detected subclinical abnormalities in cortical reactivity and 
plasticity. The most consistent finding was a decrease in intracortical 
inhibition, which likely represents a non-specific compensatory mechanism of the 
CNS in an attempt to overcome the muscle deficit through an increase of the 
motor cortex output to deficient muscles.
CONCLUSIONS: Application of TMS to characterize the pathophysiology of the CNS 
in these subjects appears to be safe and may lead to the development of valuable 
biomarkers. Well-defined motor cortical excitability patterns can be identified 
in the different muscle diseases, even if preliminary findings should be 
confirmed in future studies in larger cohorts of patients.
SIGNIFICANCE: TMS studies may shed new light on the physiological and 
pathophysiological mechanisms underlying the cortical involvement in muscle 
disorders.

Copyright © 2017 International Federation of Clinical Neurophysiology. Published 
by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinph.2017.07.410
PMID: 28829980 [Indexed for MEDLINE]