[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: curcumin anti-inflammatory clinical trial randomiz | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: curcumin anti-inflammatory clinical trial randomized]

20. Front Immunol. 2022 Aug 1;13:896476. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2022.896476.
eCollection  2022.

Curcumin and Curcuma longa Extract in the Treatment of 10 Types of Autoimmune 
Diseases: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis of 31 Randomized Controlled 
Trials.

Zeng L(1), Yang T(2), Yang K(3), Yu G(2), Li J(2), Xiang W(4), Chen H(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Rheumatology and Clinical Immunology, Peking Union Medical 
College Hospital, National Clinical Research Center for Dermatologic and 
Immunologic Diseases (NCRC-DID), Key Laboratory of Rheumatology and Clinical 
Immunology, Ministry of Education, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences & Peking 
Union Medical College, Beijing, China.
(2)Department of Orthopedics, People's Hospital of Ningxiang City, Ningxiang, 
Hunan, China.
(3)Key Laboratory of Hunan Province for Integrated Traditional Chinese and 
Western Medicine on Prevention and Treatment of Cardio-Cerebral Diseases, Hunan 
University of Chinese Medicine, Changsha, Hunan, China.
(4)Department of Rheumatology, The First people's Hospital Changde City, 
Changde, Hunan, China.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the randomized controlled trials (RCTs) of Curcumin and 
Curcuma longa Extract in the treatment of autoimmune diseases.
METHODS: Databases such as Embase, Web of Science, PubMed and The Cochrane 
Library were searched from the database establishment to February 2022 to 
collect RCTs of Curcumin and Curcuma longa Extract in the treatment of 
autoimmune diseases. Then the literature was screened and the data were 
extracted. Meta-analysis was performed using RevMan 5.3 software.
RESULTS: A total of 34 records were included, involving 31 RCTs and 10 types of 
autoimmune disease. Among them, ankylosing spondylitis (AS) involves one RCT, 
Behcet 's disease (BD) involves one RCT, Crohn 's disease involves two RCTs, 
multiple sclerosis (MS) involves two RCTs, oral lichen planus involves six RCTs, 
psoriasis involves two RCTs, rheumatoid arthritis (RA) involves five RCTs, 
systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) involves two RCTs, arteritis involves one 
RCT, ulcerative colitis (UC) involves nine RCTs. Among them, most of the RCTs of 
ulcerative colitis (UC), oral lichen planus, RA showed that curcumin and 
curcumin extracts improved clinical or laboratory results. Crohn ' s disease, 
MS, SLE, psoriasis included two RCTs; they all showed improvements (at least one 
RCT reported improvements in clinical outcomes). AS, BD and arteritis included 
only one RCT, and the clinical results showed improvement. However, due to the 
small number of RCTs and the small number of patients involved in each disease, 
there is still a need for more high-quality RCTs.
CONCLUSION: Curcumin and Curcuma longa Extract had good clinical efficacy in the 
treatment of Psoriasis, UC and RA, so Curcumin and Curcuma longa Extract could 
be used in the treatment of the above diseases in the future. The results of 
Meta-analysis showed that Curcumin and Curcuma longa Extract did not show 
efficacy in the treatment of oral lichen planus, while Takayasu arteritis, SLE, 
MS, AS, BD and CD did not report sufficient clinical data for meta-analysis. 
Therefore, large-sample, multi-center clinical trials are still needed for 
revision or validation.

Copyright © 2022 Zeng, Yang, Yang, Yu, Li, Xiang and Chen.

DOI: 10.3389/fimmu.2022.896476
PMCID: PMC9376628
PMID: 35979355 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.