[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: adaptogen ashwagandha stress cortisol clinical | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: adaptogen ashwagandha stress cortisol clinical]

14. Cureus. 2026 Jan 13;18(1):e101431. doi: 10.7759/cureus.101431. eCollection
2026  Jan.

Withania somnifera in Women's Hormonal Modulation: A Narrative Review With 
Implications for Polycystic Ovary Syndrome and Premenstrual Syndrome.

Namysł M(1), Matczak S(2), Dachowska S(1), Haraj J(3), Majcherek E(1), Sobkowiak 
M(2), Bieniek M(2), Woźniak K(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Clinical University Hospital Poznan, Poznan, POL.
(2)Department of Medicine, Poznan University of Medical Sciences, Poznan, POL.
(3)Department of Medicine, Independent Public Healthcare Institution of the 
Ministry of the Interior and Administration in Poznań, Prof. Ludwik Bierkowski 
Hospital, Poznan, POL.

BACKGROUND: Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) and premenstrual syndrome (PMS) are 
among the most common hormonal diseases affecting women worldwide. Although 
multiple conventional treatments exist, they are often insufficient or poorly 
tolerated by the patients. Withania somnifera (WS) (ashwagandha) could provide a 
synergistic or alternative method of symptom management due to its endocrine, 
neuropsychiatric, and anti-inflammatory properties.
AIM OF THE STUDY: This narrative review aims to evaluate the current evidence 
regarding the usefulness of Withania somnifera in aiding women's hormonal 
balance, with a particular focus on its potential applications in PCOS and PMS.
RESULTS: The current state of knowledge indicates that by modulating the 
hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) and hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal axes, 
normalization of gonadotropins and estradiol levels is potentially achievable 
with Withania somnifera. This, along with a well-documented lowering effect on 
cortisol, improvements in metabolic markers, and the restoration of ovarian 
function in preclinical PCOS models, shows therapeutic potential. Crucially, 
ashwagandha's impact on androgen levels appears sex-specific, as it does not 
seem to elevate testosterone in women, unlike in male study groups. In PMS, 
ashwagandha's neuropsychiatric properties, most likely associated with GABAergic 
signaling and HPA modulation, may be beneficial in lowering fatigue, anxiety, 
and stress reactivity. Some studies also indicate possible analgesic activity of 
Withania somnifera.
CONCLUSIONS: Ashwagandha rises as a strong candidate for supportive treatment 
for managing the symptoms of PCOS and PMS by means of combined hormonal, 
metabolic, and neuropsychiatric effects. However, as current evidence relies 
heavily on preclinical models and extrapolation from other populations, further 
large-scale, randomized clinical trials using standardized extracts are 
necessary to establish definitive therapeutic protocols and confirm its clinical 
efficacy and safety.

Copyright © 2026, Namysł et al.

DOI: 10.7759/cureus.101431
PMCID: PMC12895992
PMID: 41694897

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interest: In compliance with the 
ICMJE uniform disclosure form, all authors declare the following: 
Payment/services info: All authors have declared that no financial support was 
received from any organization for the submitted work. Financial relationships: 
All authors have declared that they have no financial relationships at present 
or within the previous three years with any organizations that might have an 
interest in the submitted work. Other relationships: All authors have declared 
that there are no other relationships or activities that could appear to have 
influenced the submitted work.