[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: Chinese patent medicine | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Chinese patent medicine — Overview

Qian Yi (钱乙 Qián Yǐ) (c. 1032–1113 CE). It was published in the "Xiao'er Yao Zheng Zhi Jue" (also known as "Key to Therapeutics of Children's Diseases" 小儿药证直诀 xiǎoér yào zhèng zhí jué) in 1119 by Qian Yi's student. Although Liu Wei Di Huang Wan can be prepared as a raw herb decoction (or herbal tea), it was originally created to be made into honey pills. The last word in Liu Wei Di Huang Wan, "Wan" (丸) means "pill". Criticisms

Heavy metal contamination
Some Chinese patent medicines were tested and found to contain high to dangerous levels of heavy metals. The most common heavy metals found were mercury, lead, and arsenic. These ingredients can cause serious medical problems. Pharmaceutical adulterants
Some Chinese patent medicines were found to contain pharmaceutical drugs such as decongestants, analgesics or antihistamines. The most common Chinese patent medicines found to carry pharmaceutical drugs were for the treatment of asthma, pain, and arthritis. Many contaminants and drug adulterants named in the context of herbal medicine is intentionally added and declared on product labels. The mercury salt cinnabar (), the arsenic salt realgar () and the strychnine-containing Strychnos nux-vomica ()  are used traditionally and kept in China despite the known harm and little proven benefit. In the case of drugs, the entry for "Vitamin C/Lonicera/Forsythia tablet" () in the Chinese Pharmacopoeia (ChP) calls for 105 mg of paracetamol and 1.05 mg of chlorpheniramine maleate each pill. Such a combination is common for Chinese cold medicine. In a more hidden case, the herb Ephedra naturally contains ephedrine and pseudoephedrine, and is required by the ChP to have more than 0.8% of the two decongestants (as hydrochloride salts) in its dry weight. Prohibited ingredients
Some Chinese patent medicines contain ingredients which are banned in other countries. The two most common prohibited herbs are Ephedra (麻黄 má huáng) (Ephedra) and Ban Xia (半夏 bàn xià) (Pinellia). On 30 December 2003, the FDA in the US announced a ban (effective 12 April 2004), on these herbs from all dietary supplements. Traditional Chinese herbal remedies are exempt from this law. Regulation

In Taiwan
In modern-day Taiwan, regulations to address the criticisms are introduced due to Chinese patent medicines being prescription drugs since the 1970s and a part of the public health system since 1995. Taiwan Herbal Pharmacopeia () provides information on acceptable herbs in Taiwan. Heavy metal contamination and pesticide residue
All Chinese patent medicine products sold in Taiwan must pass a heavy metal limitation test and pesticide residue test according to Taiwan Herbal Pharmacopeia. There are several manufacturers in Taiwan certified ISO 17025 Lab, for example: Sun-Ten (), Chuang Song Zong Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. (Chinese: 莊松榮)

Pharmaceutical adulterants
According to Taiwanese government law, products licenses will be suspended if there exists pharmaceutical adulterants. Furthermore, it could cause GMP certificate to be cancelled. In Taiwan, those main manufacturer in order to export products abroad, few of them has passed PIC/S GMP audition. For example: Sun-Ten (), Chuang Song Zong Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. (Chinese: 莊松榮). In China 

As with more traditional formulae, standards for Chinese patent medicine are found in Volume 1 of Chinese Pharmacopoeia. Some of the resultant medications require a prescription to purchase, while others are considered over-the-counter drugs. Heavy metal limits are present for a few herbs, although they tend to be laxer than those defined for foods. As listed above, intentionally added heavy metals and drug adulterants are found in many products. References

Fratkin, Jake (2001). Chinese Herbal Patent Medicines. Shya Publications. . Taylor, Mark (1998). Chinese Patent Medicines: A Beginner's Guide. Global Eyes International Press. . Taiwan herb pharmacopeia

See also
Kampo (Japanese adaptation of Chinese medicine)
Kampo list (list of Japanese versions of Chinese patent medicines)

Traditional Chinese medicine