[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: curcumin anti-inflammatory clinical trial randomiz | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: curcumin anti-inflammatory clinical trial randomized]

29. Trials. 2020 Nov 30;21(1):991. doi: 10.1186/s13063-020-04923-w.

Evaluation of the effect of curcumin and zinc co-supplementation on glycemic 
measurements, lipid profiles, and inflammatory and antioxidant biomarkers in 
overweight or obese prediabetic patients: a study protocol for a randomized 
double-blind placebo-controlled phase 2 clinical trial.

Karandish M(1), Mozaffari-Khosravi H(2), Mohammadi SM(3), Azhdari M(4)(5), 
Cheraghian B(6).

Author information:
(1)Nutrition and Metabolic Diseases Research Center, Ahvaz Jundishapur 
University of Medical Sciences, Ahvaz, Iran.
(2)Department of Nutrition, School of Public Health, Shahid Sadoughi University 
of Medical Sciences, Yazd, Iran.
(3)School of Medicine, Shahid Sadoughi University of Medical Sciences, Yazd, 
Iran.
(4)Student Research Committee, Ahvaz Jundishapur University of Medical Sciences, 
Ahvaz, Iran. azhdari_mar@yahoo.com.
(5)Department of Nutrition, School of Allied Medical Sciences, Ahvaz Jundishapur 
University of Medical Sciences, Ahvaz, Iran. azhdari_mar@yahoo.com.
(6)Department of Biostatistics and Epidemiology, School of Health Sciences, 
Ahvaz Jundishapur University of Medical Sciences, Ahvaz, Iran.

BACKGROUND: The prevalence of prediabetes is increasing worldwide. 
Unfortunately, prediabetes is related to non-communicable diseases. A high risk 
of developing type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) is reported in people with 
prediabetes. Curcumin, a polyphenol, might lead to its therapeutic role in 
obesity and some obesity-related metabolic diseases. Zinc is a trace element 
that plays a key role in the synthesis and action of insulin, carbohydrate 
metabolism, and decreasing inflammation. There has been no clinical trial of 
zinc and curcumin co-supplementation in patients with prediabetes. In previous 
studies, the single administration of zinc or curcumin has not been conducted on 
many of the studied markers in prediabetic patients.
METHODS: The purpose of this randomized double-blind placebo-controlled clinical 
trial is to investigate the effect of curcumin and zinc co-supplementation on 
glycemic measurements, lipid profiles, and inflammatory and antioxidant 
biomarkers among 84 prediabetic patients with body mass index (BMI) between 25 
and 35. Also, liver enzyme, serum zinc, urine zinc, blood pressure, 
anthropometric parameters, quality of life, adherence to co-supplementation, the 
side effects of co-supplementation, physical activity, and dietary intake will 
be assessed. Women or men (18-50 years old for men and 18 years to before 
menopause for women) will be followed for 3 months (90 days). This study will be 
conducted at Yazd Diabetes Research Clinic, Shahid Sadoughi University of 
Medical Sciences.
DISCUSSION: A diet rich in antioxidants, polyphenols, and phytochemicals has 
been shown to have a beneficial role in prediabetes. According to the beneficial 
properties of curcumin or zinc and inadequate evidence, RCTs are needed to 
assess the effect of curcumin and zinc co-supplementation in native prediabetes 
patients. We hope the results of the present trial, negative or positive, fill 
this gap in the literature and facilitate the approach for a much larger, 
multi-center clinical trial. In conclusion, a synergic effect of 
co-supplementation along with a weight-loss diet may delay the progression to 
type 2 diabetes mellitus.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Iranian Registry of Clinical Trials (IRCT) 
IRCT20190902044671N1 . Registered on 11 October 2019.

DOI: 10.1186/s13063-020-04923-w
PMCID: PMC7708225
PMID: 33256795 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflict 
of interest.