[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: pharmacognosy medicinal plant active compound isol | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: pharmacognosy medicinal plant active compound isolation]

71. Phytother Res. 2015 Dec;29(12):1858-67. doi: 10.1002/ptr.5483. Epub 2015 Oct
13.

A Systemic Review on Aloe arborescens Pharmacological Profile: Biological 
Activities and Pilot Clinical Trials.

Singab AN(1), El-Hefnawy HM(2), Esmat A(3), Gad HA(1), Nazeam JA(4).

Author information:
(1)Pharmacognosy Department, Faculty of Pharmacy, Ain-Shams University, Cairo, 
Egypt.
(2)Pharmacognosy Department, Faculty of Pharmacy, Cairo University, Egypt.
(3)Pharmacology and Toxicology Department, Faculty of Pharmacy, Ain-Shams 
University, Cairo, Egypt.
(4)Pharmacognosy Department, Faculty of Pharmacy, October 6th University, Egypt.

Since ancient times, plants and herbal preparations have been used as medicine. 
Research carried out in the last few decades has verified several such claims. 
Aloe arborescens Miller, belonging to the Aloe genus (Family Asphodelaceae), is 
one of the main varieties of Aloe used worldwide. The popularity of the plant in 
traditional medicine for several ailments (antitumor, immunomodulatory, 
antiinflammatory, antiulcer, antimicrobial and antifungal activity) focused the 
investigator's interest on this plant. Most importantly, the reported studies 
have shown the plant effectiveness on various cancer types such as liver, colon, 
duodenal, skin, pancreatic, intestinal, lung and kidney types. These multiple 
biological actions make Aloe an important resource for developing new natural 
therapies. However, the biological activities of isolated compounds such as 
glycoprotein, polysaccharides, enzyme and phenolics were insufficient. 
Considering all these, this contribution provides a systematic review outlining 
the evidence on the biological efficacy of the plant including the pharmacology 
and the related mechanisms of action, with specific attention to the various 
safety precautions, and preclinical and clinical studies, indicating the future 
research prospects of this plant.

Copyright © 2015 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/ptr.5483
PMID: 26768148 [Indexed for MEDLINE]