[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: MRI physics image quality artifact reduction | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: MRI physics image quality artifact reduction]

97. Minim Invasive Neurosurg. 2008 Apr;51(2):67-71. doi: 10.1055/s-2007-1004558.

Intraoperative diffusion-weighted imaging for visualization of the pyramidal 
tracts. Part II: clinical study of usefulness and efficacy.

Ozawa N(1), Muragaki Y, Nakamura R, Lseki H.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Advanced Biomedical Engineering and Science, Tokyo Women's 
Medical University, Tokyo, Japan.

Precise identification and preservation of the pyramidal tract during surgery 
for parenchymal brain tumors is of crucial importance for the avoidance of 
postoperative deterioration of the motor function. The technique of 
intraoperative diffusion-weighted imaging (iDWI) using an intraoperative MR 
scanner of low magnetic field strength (0.3 Tesla) has been developed. Its 
clinical usefulness and efficacy were evaluated in 10 surgically treated 
patients with gliomas (5 men and 5 women, mean age: 41.2+/-13.9 years). iDWI 
permitted visualization of the pyramidal tract on the non-affected side in all 
10 cases, and on the affected side in 8 cases. Motion artifacts were observed in 
four patients, but were not an obstacle to identification of the pyramidal 
tract. Good correspondence of the anatomical landmarks localization on iDWI and 
T (1)-weighted imaging was found. All participating neurosurgeons agreed that, 
in the majority of cases, iDWI was very useful for localization of the pyramidal 
tract and for clarification of its spatial relationships with the tumor. In 
conclusion, image quality and accuracy of the iDWI obtained with an MR scanner 
of low magnetic field strength (0.3 Tesla) are sufficient for possible 
incorporation into an intraoperative neuronavigation system. The use of iDWI in 
addition to structural iMRl and subcortical functional mapping with electrical 
stimulation can potentially result in a reduction of the postoperative morbidity 
after aggressive surgical removal of lesions located in the vicinity to the 
motor white matter tracts.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2007-1004558
PMID: 18401816 [Indexed for MEDLINE]