[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: optical coherence tomography retinal diagnosis | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: optical coherence tomography retinal diagnosis]

28. J Neuroophthalmol. 2014 Sep;34 Suppl:S10-7. doi:
10.1097/WNO.0000000000000162.

Optical coherence tomography in papilledema: what am I missing?

Kardon R(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Neuro-Ophthalmology 
Division, University of Iowa, Hospitals and Clinics and Veterans Administration, 
Iowa City, Iowa.

BACKGROUND: Grading of papilledema severity is subjective and based on monocular 
fundus features of the optic nerve. Interobserver agreement on grading the 
severity of papilledema is poor among expert observers, even using well-defined 
criteria such as the Frisen scale, which is a non-continuous ordinal scale of 
grading. Furthermore, non-expert clinicians often find it difficult to properly 
view and interpret features of the optic nerve using ophthalmoscopy, which can 
lead to failure to diagnose papilledema in non-ophthalmologic care settings. 
This may delay treatment, which can result in vision loss. Distinguishing 
papilledema from pseudopapilledema can also be difficult when surface drusen are 
not easily identified. Once papilledema is diagnosed, it is often difficult to 
determine whether a reduction in optic nerve edema is due solely to improvement 
in the status of the nerve or whether this represents concomitant loss of axons 
and viable retinal ganglion cells, leading to a poor visual outcome. Timely 
advancement of treatment would occur if loss of neurons could be diagnosed at an 
earlier stage of evaluation while optic disc edema is still present. This review 
will critically assess the role of optical coherence tomography (OCT) in solving 
these problems by providing an advanced imaging approach for diagnosis of 
papilledema and evaluating its severity on a continuous scale and evaluating the 
causes of visual loss in the setting of a swollen nerve.
METHODS ACQUISITION: The published literature (PubMed) was reviewed from 2000 to 
2014 on the use of OCT for diagnosing papilledema, differentiating it from 
pseudopapilledema, providing a continuous scale of its severity and in 
evaluating causes of visual loss.
RESULTS: Recent evidence shows that OCT analysis of the retinal nerve fiber 
layer and retinal ganglion cell layer in papilledema can be associated with 
misleading artifacts due to layer segmentation failures. Newer 3D algorithms 
using neighboring locations help to overcome these problems. Disc volume appears 
to be a promising continuous measure of papilledema that is robust and has less 
associated artifacts. Buried optic disc drusen can be identified using enhanced 
depth OCT imaging, but recent studies have shown poor ability to differentiate 
papilledema from pseudopapilledema using OCT when the degree of disc evaluation 
is similar. Analysis of the retinal ganglion cell layer shows promise of early 
detection of vision loss due to neuronal injury. Subretinal fluid is easily 
identified with OCT and can help to identify a potentially reversible component 
of vision loss. Newer OCT imaging methods will allow the definition of 
capillaries and flow within them in and around the optic nerve head.
CONCLUSIONS: Currently, the most useful OCT derived features relevant to 
papilledema are disc volume, subretinal fluid, buried disc drusen, and thickness 
of the retinal ganglion cell layer.

DOI: 10.1097/WNO.0000000000000162
PMID: 25133965 [Indexed for MEDLINE]