[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: MRI physics image quality artifact reduction | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: MRI physics image quality artifact reduction]

88. Neuroimage. 2013 Jul 15;75:1-11. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2013.02.039. Epub 
2013 Mar 1.

Ballistocardiographic artifact removal from simultaneous EEG-fMRI using an 
optical motion-tracking system.

LeVan P(1), Maclaren J(2), Herbst M(3), Sostheim R(3), Zaitsev M(3), Hennig 
J(3).

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Radiology, Medical Physics, University Medical Center Freiburg, 
Freiburg, Germany. Electronic address: pierre.levan@uniklinik-freiburg.de.
(2)Dept. of Radiology, Medical Physics, University Medical Center Freiburg, 
Freiburg, Germany; Dept. of Radiology, Stanford University, Stanford, CA, USA.
(3)Dept. of Radiology, Medical Physics, University Medical Center Freiburg, 
Freiburg, Germany.

The combination of electroencephalography (EEG) and functional magnetic 
resonance imaging (fMRI) allows the investigation of neuronal activity with high 
temporal and spatial resolution. While much progress has been made to overcome 
the multiple technical challenges associated with the recording of EEG inside 
the MR scanner, the ballistocardiographic (BCG) artifact, which is caused by 
cardiac-related motion inside the magnetic field, remains a major issue 
affecting EEG quality. The BCG is difficult to remove by standard average 
artifact subtraction (AAS) methods due to its variability across cardiac cycles. 
We thus investigate the possibility of directly recording the BCG motion using 
an optical motion-tracking system. In 5 subjects, the system is shown to 
accurately measure BCG motion. Regressing out linear and quadratic functions of 
the measured motion parameters resulted in a significant reduction (p<0.05) in 
root-mean-square (RMS) amplitudes across cardiac cycles compared to AAS. A 
further significant RMS reduction was obtained when applying the regression and 
AAS methods sequentially, resulting in RMS amplitudes that were not 
significantly different from those of EEG recorded outside the scanner, although 
with higher residual variability. The large contributions of pure translational 
parameters and of non-linear terms to the BCG waveforms indicate that non-rigid 
motion of the EEG wires (originating from rigid head motion) is likely an 
important cause of the artifact.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2013.02.039
PMID: 23466939 [Indexed for MEDLINE]