[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: magnetic resonance spectroscopy metabolite brain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: magnetic resonance spectroscopy metabolite brain]

85. Pediatrics. 1998 Jun;101(6):E7. doi: 10.1542/peds.101.6.e7.

Magnetic resonance imaging and spectroscopy of regional brain structure in a 
10-year-old boy with elevated blood lead levels.

Trope I(1), Lopez-Villegas D, Lenkinski RE.

Author information:
(1)Pennsylvania Hospital, Philadelphia, PA 19107, USA.

OBJECTIVE: The effects of elevated blood lead levels on the development of 
children have been examined only in the context of behavioral and 
neuropsychological evaluations. No studies have examined the effects of lead on 
brain metabolism in vivo or on structural and/or functional correlates of brain 
function in children. In the human brain, magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) 
provides a noninvasive, risk-free method to monitor the biochemistry of acute 
and chronic stages of disease. The purpose of this study was to examine in vivo 
the use of MRS for the evaluation of the neurotoxic effects of lead on the 
nervous system, by detection of brain metabolism, especially N-acetylaspartate, 
a metabolite shown to decrease in processes that involve neuronal loss.
METHODOLOGY: Two male cousins who live in the same household and share the same 
socioeconomic background and home environment were studied. The subject, a 
10-year-old boy, had elevated blood lead levels. His cousin, a 9-year-old boy, 
was not exposed to lead. Both underwent a comprehensive neuropsychological 
evaluation and both were evaluated using the magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) 
and MRS at the University of Pennsylvania Medical Center. High-resolution MRI 
and MRS were performed using a 3-in surface coil. Localized proton spectra were 
obtained from contiguous 6 x 6 x 10-mm voxels using one-dimensional phase 
encoding, with a 2000-millisecond repetition time and a 31-millisecond echo 
time.
RESULTS: Neuropsychological evaluation demonstrated areas of impairment in the 
lead-exposed child, including difficulties in academic skills of reading, 
writing, and arithmetic, as well as deficient linguistic skills and attentional 
mechanism. By contrast, studies of the cousin, who was not exposed to lead, 
showed overall neuropsychological functioning within normal limits. Although 
both children had a normal MRI examination of the brain, studies of the 
lead-exposed boy showed a significant alteration in brain metabolites, with a 
reduction in the N-acetylaspartate:creatine ratio for both gray and white matter 
on the MRS examination, compared with his cousin.
CONCLUSIONS: The present study is a first attempt to determine in vivo metabolic 
differences in the brain of a child exposed to lead compared with a healthy 
control subject. This is a unique case because these children were matched on a 
number of variables usually regarded as confounders in behavioral lead studies, 
and therefore can be regarded as matched controls. The present study 
demonstrates that MRS is a feasible, noninvasive technique for in vivo 
examination of the brains of children exposed to lead. We were able to obtain 
high-quality spectra from voxels as small as 0.36 cm at 1.5T. The spatial 
resolution used in the present study is sufficient to obtain spectra from voxels 
almost exclusively composed of gray matter. The one-dimensional phase-encoding 
approach used presents the advantage of obtaining several spectra simultaneously 
in a relatively short time. The present study has allowed us to examine the 
spectroscopic patterns of frontal gray and white matter after lead exposure 
relative to the normal pattern seen in healthy children and adults. The MRS 
study of the healthy, nonlead-exposed cousin demonstrated spectra entirely 
consistent with the spectral pattern reported in previous studies of healthy 
individuals. By contrast, the spectra obtained from the lead-exposed child 
deviated from the expected pattern in all metabolite ratios analyzed. Because 
N-acetylaspartate has been shown as a measure of neuronal viability, the level 
of N-acetylaspartate may enable us to evaluate the degree of neuronal loss in 
children exposed to lead. The MRI examination indicated no structural 
abnormalities or cortical thinning, and no abnormal findings in either case. By 
contrast, MRS indicated a significant change from normal values for the 
lead-exposed child. This supports the idea that lead neurodevelopmental toxicity 
may be related to inter

DOI: 10.1542/peds.101.6.e7
PMID: 9606249 [Indexed for MEDLINE]