[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Propulsion Mechanics | Topic: Electric sail | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Electric sail — Overview

it might take only 10 to 15 years to make the trip of over 100 astronomical units (15 billion kilometers). In the HERTS concept, multiple, 20 kilometer or so long, 1 millimeter thin, positively charged wires would be extended from a rotating spacecraft. A new satellite launched in June 2017, the Finnish Aalto-1 nanosatellite, currently in orbit, will test the electric sail for deorbiting in 2019. In 2017, Academy of Finland granted Centre of Excellence funding for 2018–2025 to a team that includes Janhunen and members from universities, to establish a Finnish Centre of Excellence in Research of Sustainable Space. Intrinsic limitations 

Almost all Earth-orbiting satellites are inside Earth's magnetosphere. However, the electric sail cannot be used inside planetary magnetospheres because the solar wind does not penetrate them, allowing only slower plasma flows and magnetic fields. Instead, inside a planetary magnetosphere, the electric sail may function as a brake, allowing deorbiting of satellites. Like for other solar sail technologies, while modest variation of the thrust direction can be achieved by inclining the sail, the thrust vector always points more or less radially outward from the Sun. It has been estimated that maximum operational inclination would be 60°, resulting in a thrusting angle of 30° from the outward radial direction. However, like with the sails of a ship, tacking could be used for changing the trajectory. Interstellar ships approaching a sun might use solar wind flow for braking. Applications 
 Fast missions (> or ) out of the Solar System and heliosphere with small or modest payload
 As a brake for a small interstellar probe which has been accelerated to high speed by some other means such as laser lightsail
 Inward-spiralling missions to study the Sun at a closer distance
 Two-way missions to inner Solar System objects such as asteroids
 Off-Lagrange point solar wind monitoring spacecraft for predicting space weather with a longer warning time than 1 hour

Fast missions to planet Uranus 
Janhunen et al. have proposed a mission to Uranus powered by an electric sail. The mission could reach its destination in about the same time that the earlier Galileo space probe required to arrive at Jupiter, just over one fourth as far away. Galileo took 6 years to reach Jupiter at a cost of $1.6 billion, while Cassini-Huygens took 7 years to get to Saturn and cost almost as much. The sail is expected to consume 540 watts, producing about 0.5 newtons accelerating the craft by about 1 mm/s2. The craft would reach a velocity of about  by the time it reaches Uranus, 6 years after launch. The downside is that the electric sail cannot be used as a brake, so the craft arrives at a speed of , limiting the missions to flybys or atmospheric entry missions. Braking would require a conventional chemical rocket. The proposed craft has three parts: the E-sail module with solar panels and reels to hold the wires; the main body, including chemical thrusters for adjusting trajectory en route and at destination and communications equipment; and a research module to enter Uranus's atmosphere and make measurements for relay to Earth via the main body. See also 
Electrodynamic tether
Magnetic sail

References

External links 
Heliopause Electrostatic Rapid Transit System
FMI's official E-sail page
List of original scientific publications
Finnish Meteorological Institute/Space Research
 

CubeSats
Finnish inventions
Spacecraft propulsion
Solar sailing
Interstellar travel