[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: MRI physics image quality artifact reduction | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: MRI physics image quality artifact reduction]

42. Magn Reson Med. 2022 Aug;88(2):962-972. doi: 10.1002/mrm.29218. Epub 2022 Apr
 18.

Hybrid data fidelity term approach for quantitative susceptibility mapping.

Lambert M(1)(2)(3), Tejos C(1)(2)(3), Langkammer C(4)(5), Milovic C(1)(2)(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Electrical Engineering, Pontificia Universidad Catolica de 
Chile, Santiago, Chile.
(2)Biomedical Imaging Center, Pontificia Universidad Catolica de Chile, 
Santiago, Chile.
(3)Millennium Institute for Intelligent Healthcare Engineering (iHEALTH), 
Santiago, Chile.
(4)Department of Neurology, Medical University of Graz, Graz, Austria.
(5)BioTechMed Graz, Graz, Austria.
(6)Department of Medical Physics and Biomedical Engineering, University College 
London, London, UK.

PURPOSE: Susceptibility maps are usually derived from local magnetic field 
estimations by minimizing a functional composed of a data consistency term and a 
regularization term. The data-consistency term measures the difference between 
the desired solution and the measured data using typically the L2-norm. It has 
been proposed to replace this L2-norm with the L1-norm, due to its robustness to 
outliers and reduction of streaking artifacts arising from highly noisy or 
strongly perturbed regions. However, in regions with high SNR, the L1-norm 
yields a suboptimal denoising performance. In this work, we present a hybrid 
data fidelity approach that uses the L1-norm and subsequently the L2-norm to 
exploit the strengths of both norms.
METHODS: We developed a hybrid data fidelity term approach for QSM (HD-QSM) 
based on linear susceptibility inversion methods, with total variation 
regularization. Each functional is solved with ADMM. The HD-QSM approach is a 
two-stage method that first finds a fast solution of the L1-norm functional and 
then uses this solution to initialize the L2-norm functional. In both norms we 
included spatially variable weights that improve the quality of the 
reconstructions.
RESULTS: The HD-QSM approach produced good quantitative reconstructions in terms 
of structural definition, noise reduction, and avoiding streaking artifacts 
comparable with nonlinear methods, but with higher computational efficiency. 
Reconstructions performed with this method achieved first place at the lowest 
RMS error category in stage 1 of the 2019 QSM Reconstruction Challenge.
CONCLUSIONS: The proposed method allows robust and accurate QSM reconstructions, 
obtaining superior performance to state-of-the-art methods.

© 2022 The Authors. Magnetic Resonance in Medicine published by Wiley 
Periodicals LLC on behalf of International Society for Magnetic Resonance in 
Medicine.

DOI: 10.1002/mrm.29218
PMCID: PMC9324845
PMID: 35435267 [Indexed for MEDLINE]