[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: cannabis cannabidiol therapeutic epilepsy pain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: cannabis cannabidiol therapeutic epilepsy pain]

76. Epileptic Disord. 2020 Jan 1;22(S1):1-9. doi: 10.1684/epd.2019.1121.

Source of cannabinoids: what is available, what is used, and where does it come 
from?

Specchio N(1), Pietrafusa N(1), Cross HJ(2).

Author information:
(1)Rare and Complex Epilepsy Unit, Department of Neurosciences, Bambino Gesù 
Children's Hospital, IRCCS, Member of the European Reference Network EpiCARE, 
Rome, Italy.
(2)UCL-Institute of Child Health, Great Ormond Street Hospital for Children, 
Member of the European Reference Network EpiCARE, London & Young Epilepsy, 
Lingfield, UK.

Cannabis sativa L. is an ancient medicinal plant wherefrom over 120 cannabinoids 
are extracted. In the past two decades, there has been increasing interest in 
the therapeutic potential of cannabis-based treatments for neurological 
disorders such as epilepsy, and there is now evidence for the medical use of 
cannabis and its effectiveness for a wide range of diseases. Cannabinoid 
treatments for pain and spasticity in patients with multiple sclerosis 
(Nabiximols) have been approved in several countries. Cannabidiol (CBD), in 
contrast to tetra-hydro-cannabidiol (THC), is not a controlled substance in the 
European Union, and over the years there has been increasing use of CBD-enriched 
extracts and pure CBD for seizure disorders, particularly in children. No 
analytical controls are mandatory for CBD-based products and a pronounced 
variability in CBD concentrations in commercialized CBD oil preparations has 
been identified. Randomized controlled trials of plant-derived CBD for treatment 
of Lennox-Gastaut syndrome (LGS) and Dravet syndrome (DS) have provided evidence 
of anti-seizure effects, and in June 2018, CBD was approved by the Food and Drug 
Administration as an add-on antiepileptic drug for patients two years of age and 
older with LGS or DS. Medical cannabis, with various ratios of CBD and THC and 
in different galenic preparations, is licensed in many European countries for 
several indications, and in July 2019, the European Medicines Agency also 
granted marketing authorisation for CBD in association with clobazam, for the 
treatment of seizures associated with LGS or DS. The purpose of this article is 
to review the availability of cannabis-based products and cannabinoid-based 
medicines, together with current regulations regarding indications in Europe (as 
of July 2019). The lack of approval by the central agencies, as well as social 
and political influences, have led to significant variation in usage between 
countries.

DOI: 10.1684/epd.2019.1121
PMID: 31941643 [Indexed for MEDLINE]