[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: Therapeutic Strategies for Untreated Capillary Malformations | Type: OpenAlex-OA | Level: Graduate]

[OpenAlex | Laser Physics | Year: 2021 | Citations: 12]

Title: Therapeutic Strategies for Untreated Capillary Malformations of the Head and Neck Region: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analyses

Abstract:
BACKGROUND: Capillary malformations of the head and neck region often cause psychological and physical burden. As the effectiveness of modern laser and light therapies is still suboptimal, patients often seek different therapeutic strategies. Other recognized, but not routinely proposed therapies include cosmetic camouflage, surgery, and medical tattooing. Information on therapeutic outcomes is currently lacking for patients to adequately participate in the treatment decision-making process. OBJECTIVE: The objective of this systematic review was to review the effectiveness and safety of recognized therapies for untreated capillary malformations of the head and neck: laser and light treatment modalities, photodynamic therapy, cosmetic camouflage, medical tattooing, and surgery. METHODS: PubMed, Embase, and the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials were searched up to 16 December, 2020 for observational and experimental studies examining recognized therapies for untreated capillary malformations of the head and neck. Two reviewers independently evaluated the risk of bias of included studies. Predefined treatment and safety outcomes of pooled data were scored using the Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development and Evaluation (GRADE). RESULTS: = 55%) for the pulsed dye laser after three to eight treatment sessions (GRADE score: very low). Other therapies were less effective. Hyperpigmentation was most frequently described after the pulsed dye laser (incidences up to 40%). Pain was most common after photodynamic therapy, yet the intensity was unreported. Substantial heterogeneity among studies as to patient characteristics and outcomes limited pooling and data comparisons. CONCLUSIONS: The pulsed dye laser seems preferable for treatment-naive capillary malformations of the head and neck region, yet demonstrates greater hyperpigmentation rates compared with other therapies. Our results are, however, based on low-quality evidence. Future studies using uniform outcome measures and validated metrics are warranted for study comparability. Based on this systematic review, clinicians and patients should be aware of the limited evidence about the available options when making (shared) treatment decisions for capillary malformations. TRIAL REGISTRATION: Review registration number PROSPERO database: CRD42020199445.