[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: Lavender Scare | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Lavender Scare — Overview

up as way 'to meet and interact with other lesbians in a safe environment.' They later sought to change laws criminalising homosexuality. Legacy Though the main vein of McCarthyism ended in the mid-1950s when the 1956 Cole v. Young ruling severely weakened the ability to fire people from the federal government for discriminatory reasons, the movement that was born from it, the Lavender Scare, lived on. One such way was that Executive Order 10450, which was not rescinded until 1995, continued to bar gays from entering the military. Another form of the Lavender Scare that persisted was the Florida Legislative Investigation Committee, also referred to as the FLIC and the Johns Committee. The FLIC was founded in 1956 and was not disbanded until 1964. The purpose of the committee was to operate within Florida continuing the work of the Lavender Scare by investigating and firing public school teachers who were gay. During its active years the FLIC was responsible for more than 200 firings of alleged gay teachers. The FLIC was disbanded following the release of the Purple Pamphlet due to public outrage over its explicit and pornographic nature. In January 2017, the State Department formally apologized following suggestion by Senator Ben Cardin. Cardin also noted that investigations by the state department into homosexuality of federal employees continued as late as the 1990s. Documentary
The Lavender Scare, directed by Josh Howard and narrated by Glenn Close, is a documentary film that recounts the events of the Lavender Scare. David K. Johnson is part of the project, as the film is based on his book. To help with funding, Josh Howard created a Kickstarter that met its goal in donations. The film was completed, screened at more than 70 film festivals around the world, and opened at theaters in New York City and Los Angeles in 2019. PBS televised the film on June 18, 2019. See also

 Advise and Consent
 Joseph Alsop
 Newton Arvin
 Blue discharge
 Boise homosexuality scandal
 Civil Service Reform Act of 1978
 Executive Order 11478
 Fruit machine (homosexuality test)
 Gay Purges (Canada)
 Gays and Lesbians in Foreign Affairs Agencies
 Honey trapping
 Homosexual seduction
 Is Homosexuality a Menace? Walter Jenkins
 Last Night at the Telegraph Club
 LGBT history in the United States
 LGBT rights in the United States
 Martin and Mitchell Defection
 R. W. Scott McLeod
 Helen G. James
 Carmel Offie
 Samuel Reber
 Seduction of the Innocent
 Sexual orientation and the United States military
 Charles W. Thayer
 Arthur H. Vandenberg, Jr. Wright Commission on Government Security

References

Citations

General and cited references

Further reading
 
 
 
  Excerpt. Book review. External links
 Longernecker v. Higley, December 22, 1955
 The Lavender Scare, official website for documentary film
 Uniquely Nasty: The U.S. Government's War on Gays, Yahoo! News documentary film (2015)

1950s in LGBT history
Aftermath of World War II in the United States
Anti-communism in the United States
Censorship of LGBT issues
Discrimination against LGBT people in the United States
History of LGBT civil rights in the United States
Homophobia
LGBT history in the United States
LGBT-related conspiracy theories
McCarthyism
Moral panic
Political history of the United States
Red Scare