[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: Image Processing in Radiation Therapy | Type: OpenAlex-OA | Level: Graduate]

[OpenAlex | Applied Magnetism | Year: 2015 | Citations: 29]

Title: Image Processing in Radiation Therapy

Abstract:
Image Processing in Radiation Therapy is a book from the CRC Press medical physics series entitled, “Imaging in Medical Diagnosis and Therapy (series edited by William R. Hendee).” This book provides a fairly thorough review of the current state of image processing algorithms and imaging systems. It is primarily towards the paradigm of image-assisted contouring, image registration, and image-guidance for patient positioning and geometric adaptive radiation therapy. The text is written at a level that splits right at the threshold of general reading and classroom textbook. The field of radiation therapy has seen an explosive advancement in the integration of imaging in the routine workflow of treatment planning, setup/verification/adaptation, and assessment. Led by parallel developments in imaging equipment development, advanced image processing algorithms, and clinical studies demonstrating benefit from the select use of these developments, the typical modern radiation therapy center is infused with a large amount of volumetric imaging information that needs to be handled with computer-assistance for effective use. The argument that there is a pressing need for radiation therapy professionals to better understand the algorithms and systems that manage this imaging information is well supported. This text successfully fulfills its goals by covering, in reasonable detail, a number of the fundamental and evolving algorithms related to image registration and segmentation. It also provides an interesting section with some vignettes on more select aspects of imaging and image processing. This book is recommended for two audiences. First, it serves as a slightly intense, but very useful overview that can appeal to interested clinical physicists and other radiation therapy professionals. Second, it is an outstanding detailed reference text for academic medical physicists and imaging scientists, and it can potentially serve as the primary reference for a classroom lecture series in imaging for radiation therapy. Graduate students in medical physics, as well as potentially biomedical engineering and other related disciplines, will find the detail in most chapters of exceptional value. The editor, Kristy Brock, is an internationally recognized expert in the area of deformable image registration and its application across a broad spectrum of clinical utilizations. She has assembled a collection of 31 authors from 24 institutions. Most of these authors are extremely well known as experts in their respective areas of imaging. This book begins with chapters that generally explore some of the major applications of image processing that you deal with and introduces issues that should be noted in their implementation and use. The general workflow of adaptive therapy and related elements are nicely laid out. Following is a chapter discussing the use of imaging related to precision therapy in regions of the body where physiological movement may warrant online monitoring, tracking, and potentially dose accumulation. The third chapter on validation of image registration provides a very solid foundation for understanding the basis of alignment quality assurances, along with a comprehensive review of related work to date. The next two sections of the book go into more depth about some specific algorithms of relevance for radiation therapy. The registration section has a very thorough description of the elements of image registration algorithms. Similarity metrics are robustly described, followed by parametric deformation models, biomechanical models, and non-parametric alignment models. The last chapter of this section covers optimization methods for finding deformable transformations. The level of detail in these chapters is sufficient to promote a fundamental understanding of the elements of image registration sufficient for graduate students or medical physicists to appreciate all the elemental details of newly presented combinations. The segmentation section describes a broad extent of methods for aiding automated delineation of anatomic constructs from volumetric images. Chapter 9 covers basic segmentation methods and is broadly applicable to the radiation therapy community. The next two chapters (deformable shape models and level set) appeal to more specialized imaging experts. The last chapter of this section provides a nice introduction to atlas-based segmentation at a level that all audiences can understand. The final section combines a mix of broad overviews of imaging techniques, as well as specific looks into existing and emerging methods of image processing of relevance to the radiation therapy community. This book will have a broad appeal since it covers a large fraction of the concepts of image processing relevant to the radiation therapy community. It does so with a nice mix of general, as well as detailed chapters where appropriate. As no dedicated course on image processing for radiation therapy typically exists, this book may very well help build the foundation for future educational initiatives in this important bridging area. One could imagine a future version of this book containing problems to allow students to exercise the knowledge imparted in certain chapters. Different classes of readers will be able to appreciate this book at different levels. Clinical medical physicists will have a reference that provides some insight into segmentation, alignment, and adaptive therapy support tools that otherwise appear as “black box” algorithms. They can use this knowledge to make practical decisions on clinical assessment and use. Imaging scientists and students in imaging and/or radiation oncology physics can use many of the chapters as a fundamental description of some of the critical elements of emerging methods to advance imaging use. James Balter is the Professor and co-director of the Physics Division of Radiation Oncology, as well as the Professor of Biomedical Engineering at the University of Michigan. He has directed several national efforts related to imaging in Radiation Oncology, including creating the Therapy Imaging Subcommittee of the AAPM Therapy Physics Committee. His responsibilities include clinical service, research, teaching, and administration. Dr. Balter's primary research interests include imaging in Radiation Oncology, with active current projects in MRI optimization, deformable and dynamic human modeling, and novel image reconstruction and synthesis methodologies.