[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: List of EastEnders characters (2004) | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# List of EastEnders characters (2004) — Overview

with Grant Mitchell (Ross Kemp), though her and Ian overcome this and marry in 2007. Soon after Steven Beale (Aaron Sidwell) returns to Walford soon after, and mistakenly shoots Jane in the stomach, leaving her unable to have children. Brett took maternity leave in 2011 and Jane departed on 19 May. Jane returned to screens on 8 November before departing the series on 27 January 2012. The character returned permanently in 2014. Eddie

Eddie, played by Daren Elliott Holmes, made his first appearance on 5 July 2004 as the right-hand man and personal bodyguard of Andy Hunter (Michael Higgs), the reigning crime kingpin of Albert Square in Walford - a fictionalized borough in East London. Throughout his duration on the show, Eddie helps Andy expand his criminal empire and gangland reign upon Walford. This involves Andy ordering Eddie to get the upper hand over his rivals, as well as celebrate his wedding to local businesswoman Sam Mitchell (Kim Medcalf) - which is nearly ruined after her cousin Billy (Perry Fenwick) and ex-boyfriend Minty Peterson (Cliff Parisi) try to warn Sam's mother Peggy (Barbara Windsor) about Andy's scheme to extract control of the Mitchell family assets. However, they fail and Andy later sends Eddie to warn off Billy and Minty. It is at this point where Eddie has crossed path with Andy's best-friend Dennis Rickman (Nigel Harman) and sworn nemesis Alfie Moon (Shane Richie). Towards Christmas 2004, Eddie observes Andy employing Billy's friend Paul Trueman (Gary Beadle) into the business so he could expand his criminal empire on drug dealing. When Eddie approaches the rendezvous point to carry out Andy's preparations, however, Andy deduces that Paul has set them up in a police sting operation - which prompts him to have Eddie leave the area and get rid of all evidence that traces their would-be involvement in the apparent drug operation. Eddie does so and Andy later has Paul killed in retribution, which inevitably sparks a conflict between Paul's adopted father Patrick (Rudolph Walker) and Andy himself when Paul's body is recovered the following month. Soon afterwards, Andy orders Eddie to investigate Alfie's two cousins Jake (Joel Beckett) and Danny (Jake Maskall) upon becoming enemies with them. In doing so, Eddie finds out that Jake and Danny are henchmen working for their mob boss Johnny Allen (Billy Murray). He subsequently informs Andy, who thereupon alerts Johnny to the square so he can take care of Jake and Danny. It is then Johnny begins to usurp Andy from his gangland reign, up to the point where Andy rants against Johnny in front of Eddie and their fellow neighbours in The Queen Victoria public house. Andy's outburst towards Sam prompts Johnny and his friend Den Watts (Leslie Grantham), the pub's landlord, to ban Andy from the pub and throw him out along with Eddie. Thereafter Andy tells Eddie that he plans to con Johnny out of his £750,000 in a criminal transaction between them. While Eddie attempts to warn Andy about crossing Johnny with his plan, Andy insists that it is doing ahead regardless. This causes Eddie to observe Andy's go-ahead with his plot by having Danny help out, after Jake was originally authorized to help until Johnny cut him out of getting involved at the last minute. On the night Andy puts his scheme into motion, Eddie appears to contribute after helping Andy flee Walford with the £750,000. However, as they drive out of the city, Eddie pulls over near a motorway bridge and claims that he needs to go to the toilet. Andy gives him permission to go, but it later turns out Eddie has actually betrayed Andy by alerting Johnny of his plan and location. Off-screen, Eddie witnesses Johnny and Jake arrive at where Andy is to intercept him - with Jake retaking Johnny's £750,000 from Andy whilst Johnny himself orders Andy to take a walk with him on the motorway bridge. This causes Andy to discover Eddie's betrayal too late, and he reluctantly does so. Moments later, with Jake and Eddie watching from their cars, Johnny kills Andy by forcing him off the motorway bridge - which causes Andy to fall to his death. Johnny then returns to his car with Jake and they flee from the scene, though not before Johnny tells Eddie "I don't wanna see you again"; which implies that Johnny has ordered Eddie to leave Walford for good in order to destroy all traces of his involvement to Andy's death. Eddie complies with Johnny's orders regardless, and leaves Walford for good. The character Eddie makes his final appearance on 18 February 2005, the show's 20th anniversary episode where Andy is ironically killed off towards the broadcast's climax. David Collins

David Collins, played by Dan Milne, is the first husband of Jane Collins (Laurie Brett) who suffers from Huntington's disease and lives in a hospice. Jane keeps David a secret from her new boss Ian Beale (Adam Woodyatt), but one day Ian demands to know why she is infrequent with her work, and Jane takes him to meet David. Ian regularly visits him until David dies on New Year's Eve 2004, leaving Jane heartbroken, as she had had sex with Ian prior to his death.