[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: laser tissue interaction ablation photothermal | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: laser tissue interaction ablation photothermal]

11. Materials (Basel). 2022 Feb 21;15(4):1606. doi: 10.3390/ma15041606.

Photothermal and Photodynamic Therapy of Tumors with Plasmonic Nanoparticles: 
Challenges and Prospects.

Bucharskaya AB(1)(2)(3), Khlebtsov NG(2)(4), Khlebtsov BN(4), Maslyakova 
GN(1)(2), Navolokin NA(1)(2), Genin VD(2)(3), Genina EA(2)(3), Tuchin 
VV(2)(3)(5).

Author information:
(1)Core Facility Center, Saratov State Medical University, 112 Bol'shaya 
Kazachya Str., 410012 Saratov, Russia.
(2)Science Medical Center, Saratov State University, 83 Astrakhanskaya Str., 
410012 Saratov, Russia.
(3)Laser Molecular Imaging and Machine Learning Laboratory, Tomsk State 
University, 36 Lenin's Av., 634050 Tomsk, Russia.
(4)Nanobiotechnology Laboratory, Institute of Biochemistry and Physiology of 
Plants and Microorganisms RAS, FRC "Saratov Scientific Centre of the Russian 
Academy of Sciences", 13 Prospekt Entuziastov, 410049 Saratov, Russia.
(5)Institute of Precision Mechanics and Control, FRC "Saratov Scientific Centre 
of the Russian Academy of Sciences", 24 Rabochaya Str., 410028 Saratov, Russia.

Cancer remains one of the leading causes of death in the world. For a number of 
neoplasms, the efficiency of conventional chemo- and radiation therapies is 
insufficient because of drug resistance and marked toxicity. Plasmonic 
photothermal therapy (PPT) using local hyperthermia induced by gold 
nanoparticles (AuNPs) has recently been extensively explored in tumor treatment. 
However, despite attractive promises, the current PPT status is limited by 
laboratory experiments, academic papers, and only a few preclinical studies. 
Unfortunately, most nanoformulations still share a similar fate: great 
laboratory promises and fair preclinical trials. This review discusses the 
current challenges and prospects of plasmonic nanomedicine based on PPT and 
photodynamic therapy (PDT). We start with consideration of the fundamental 
principles underlying plasmonic properties of AuNPs to tune their plasmon 
resonance for the desired NIR-I, NIR-2, and SWIR optical windows. The basic 
principles for simulation of optical cross-sections and plasmonic heating under 
CW and pulsed irradiation are discussed. Then, we consider the state-of-the-art 
methods for wet chemical synthesis of the most popular PPPT AuNPs such as 
silica/gold nanoshells, Au nanostars, nanorods, and nanocages. The photothermal 
efficiencies of these nanoparticles are compared, and their applications to 
current nanomedicine are shortly discussed. In a separate section, we discuss 
the fabrication of gold and other nanoparticles by the pulsed laser ablation in 
liquid method. The second part of the review is devoted to our recent 
experimental results on laser-activated interaction of AuNPs with tumor and 
healthy tissues and current achievements of other research groups in this 
application area. The unresolved issues of PPT are the significant accumulation 
of AuNPs in the organs of the mononuclear phagocyte system, causing potential 
toxic effects of nanoparticles, and the possibility of tumor recurrence due to 
the presence of survived tumor cells. The prospective ways of solving these 
problems are discussed, including developing combined antitumor therapy based on 
combined PPT and PDT. In the conclusion section, we summarize the most urgent 
needs of current PPT-based nanomedicine.

DOI: 10.3390/ma15041606
PMCID: PMC8878601
PMID: 35208145

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.