[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: Parametric down-conversion photon-pair source on a nanophoto | Type: OpenAlex-OA | Level: Graduate]

[OpenAlex | Laser Physics | Year: 2016 | Citations: 303]

Title: Parametric down-conversion photon-pair source on a nanophotonic chip

Abstract:
Quantum-photonic chips, which integrate quantum light sources alongside active and passive optical elements, as well as single-photon detectors, show great potential for photonic quantum information processing and quantum technology. Mature semiconductor nanofabrication processes allow for scaling such photonic integrated circuits to on-chip networks of increasing complexity. Second-order nonlinear materials are the method of choice for generating photonic quantum states in the overwhelming majority of linear optic experiments using bulk components, but integration with waveguide circuitry on a nanophotonic chip proved to be challenging. Here, we demonstrate such an on-chip parametric down-conversion source of photon pairs based on second-order nonlinearity in an aluminum-nitride microring resonator. We show the potential of our source for quantum information processing by measuring the high visibility anti-bunching of heralded single photons with nearly ideal state purity. Our down-conversion source yields measured coincidence rates of 80 Hz, which implies MHz generation rates of correlated photon pairs. Low noise performance is demonstrated by measuring high coincidence-to-accidental ratios. The generated photon pairs are spectrally far separated from the pump field, providing great potential for realizing sufficient on-chip filtering and monolithic integration of quantum light sources, waveguide circuits and single-photon detectors. A chip-based source of photon pairs for applications in quantum information processing has been built by a team of scientists in the US. Xiang Guo and co-workers from Yale University built the quantum light source from an aluminum nitride microring resonator. The strong second-order nonlinearity of the aluminum nitride yields efficient parametric down-conversion. This allows 775-nm-wavelength pump photons to be converted into a pair of entangled photons in the telecommunications window of 1550 nm. Tests indicated that the heralded photons generated by the microring source are anti-bunched and have high visibility and a high purity of state, indicating that they are highly suitable for use in quantum optics experiments. In principle, the on-chip source is compatible with megahertz generation rates and large-scale manufacture of integrated optical circuits.