[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: nanoparticle drug delivery tumor targeting cancer | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: nanoparticle drug delivery tumor targeting cancer]

24. Eur J Pharmacol. 2023 Nov 5;958:176013. doi: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2023.176013.
Epub  2023 Aug 24.

Cancer chemotherapy resistance: Mechanisms and recent breakthrough in targeted 
drug delivery.

Davodabadi F(1), Sajjadi SF(2), Sarhadi M(3), Mirghasemi S(4), Nadali Hezaveh 
M(5), Khosravi S(6), Kamali Andani M(7), Cordani M(8), Basiri M(9), Ghavami 
S(10).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, Faculty of Basic Science, Payame Noor University, 
Tehran, Iran. Electronic address: davodabadii.fateme@gmail.com.
(2)School of Biological Science, Institute for Research in Fundamental Sciences 
(IPM), Tehran, Iran. Electronic address: fatemeh.sajadi@modares.ac.ir.
(3)Cellular and Molecular Research Center, Research Institute of Cellular and 
Molecular Sciences in Infectious Diseases, Zahedan University of Medical 
Sciences, Zahedan, Iran. Electronic address: sarhadi@zaums.ac.ir.
(4)Department of Chemistry, Science and Research Branch, Islamic Azad 
University, Tehran, Iran. Electronic address: shaghayeghmirghasemii@gmail.com.
(5)Department of Chemical Engineering, Isfahan University of Technology, 
Isfahan, 84156-83111, Iran. Electronic address: melika.nadali2000@gmail.com.
(6)Department of Cellular and Molecular Biology, Faculty of Biological Sciences, 
North Tehran Branch, Islamic Azad University, Tehran, Iran. Electronic address: 
samin.khosravi01@gmail.com.
(7)Department of Biology, Faculty of Basic Science, Payame Noor University, 
Tehran, Iran. Electronic address: kamali220022@gmail.com.
(8)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Faculty of Biological 
Sciences, Complutense University of Madrid, Madrid, Spain; Instituto de 
Investigaciones Sanitarias San Carlos (IdISSC), Madrid, Spain. Electronic 
address: mcordani@ucm.es.
(9)Department of Stem Cells and Developmental Biology, Cell Science Research 
Center, Royan Institute for Stem Cell Biology and Technology, ACECR, Tehran, 
Iran. Electronic address: basiri@royaninstitute.org.
(10)Academy of Silesia, Faculty of Medicine, Rolna 43, 40-555. Katowice, Poland; 
Research Institute of Oncology and Hematology, Cancer Care Manitoba-University 
of Manitoba, Winnipeg, MB R3E 3P5, Canada; Biology of Breathing Theme, Children 
Hospital Research Institute of Manitoba, University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, MB 
R3E 3P5, Canada; Department of Human Anatomy and Cell Science, University of 
Manitoba College of Medicine, Winnipeg, MB R3E 3P5, Canada. Electronic address: 
saeid.ghavami@umanitoba.ca.

Conventional chemotherapy, one of the most widely used cancer treatment methods, 
has serious side effects, and usually results in cancer treatment failure. Drug 
resistance is one of the primary reasons for this failure. The most significant 
drawbacks of systemic chemotherapy are rapid clearance from the circulation, the 
drug's low concentration in the tumor site, and considerable adverse effects 
outside the tumor. Several ways have been developed to boost neoplasm treatment 
efficacy and overcome medication resistance. In recent years, targeted drug 
delivery has become an essential therapeutic application. As more mechanisms of 
tumor treatment resistance are discovered, nanoparticles (NPs) are designed to 
target these pathways. Therefore, understanding the limitations and challenges 
of this technology is critical for nanocarrier evaluation. Nano-drugs have been 
increasingly employed in medicine, incorporating therapeutic applications for 
more precise and effective tumor diagnosis, therapy, and targeting. Many 
benefits of NP-based drug delivery systems in cancer treatment have been proven, 
including good pharmacokinetics, tumor cell-specific targeting, decreased side 
effects, and lessened drug resistance. As more mechanisms of tumor treatment 
resistance are discovered, NPs are designed to target these pathways. At the 
moment, this innovative technology has the potential to bring fresh insights 
into cancer therapy. Therefore, understanding the limitations and challenges of 
this technology is critical for nanocarrier evaluation.

Copyright © 2023 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2023.176013
PMID: 37633322 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.