[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Complex Circuit Systems | Topic: Logic optimization | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Logic optimization — Overview

circuit in terms of SOPs (sum-of-products) — which is more applicable to a PLA implementation of the design — a multi-level representation is a more generic view of the circuit in terms of arbitrarily connected SOPs, POSs (product-of-sums), factored form etc. Logic optimization algorithms generally work either on the structural (SOPs, factored form) or functional (Binary decision diagrams, Algebraic Decision Diagrams (ADDs)) representation of the circuit. In sum-of-products (SOP) form, AND gates form the smallest unit and are stitched together using ORs, whereas in product-of-sums (POS) form it is opposite. POS form requires parentheses to group the OR terms together under AND gates, because OR has lower precedence than AND. Both SOP and POS forms translate nicely into circuit logic. If we have two functions F1 and F2:
 

 

The above 2-level representation takes six product terms and 24 transistors in CMOS Rep. A functionally equivalent representation in multilevel can be:

 P = B + C. F1 = AP + AD. F2 = A'P + A'E. While the number of levels here is 3, the total number of product terms and literals reduce  because of the sharing of the term B + C. Similarly, we distinguish between combinational circuits and sequential circuits. Combinational circuits produce their outputs based only on the current inputs. They can be represented by boolean relations. Some examples are priority encoders, binary decoders, multiplexers, demultiplexers. Sequential circuits produce their output based on both current and past inputs, depending on a clock signal to distinguish the previous inputs from the current inputs. They can be represented by finite state machines. Some examples are flip-flops and counters. Example

While there are many ways to minimize a circuit, this is an example that minimizes (or simplifies) a Boolean function. The Boolean function carried out by the circuit is directly related to the algebraic expression from which the function is implemented. Consider the circuit used to represent . It is evident that two negations, two conjunctions, and a disjunction are used in this statement. This means that to build the circuit one would need two inverters, two AND gates, and an OR gate. The circuit can simplified (minimized) by applying laws of Boolean algebra or using intuition. Since the example states that  is true when  is false and the other way around, one can conclude that this simply means . In terms of logical gates, inequality simply means an XOR gate (exclusive or). Therefore, . Then the two circuits shown below are equivalent, as can be checked using a truth table:

See also 
 Binary decision diagram (BDD)
 Don't care condition
 Prime implicant
 Circuit complexity — on estimation of the circuit complexity
 Function composition
 Function decomposition
 Gate underutilization
 Logic redundancy
 Harvard minimizing chart (Wikiversity) (Wikibooks)

Notes

References

Further reading 
  (146 pages)
  (NB. Chapters 7–9 cover combinatorial two-level, combinatorial multi-level, and respectively sequential circuit optimization.)
 
 
  

Electronic engineering
Electronic design
Digital electronics
Electronic design automation
Electronics optimization
Boolean algebra
Circuit complexity
Logic in computer science