[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: ethnobotany traditional medicine biological activi | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: ethnobotany traditional medicine biological activity]

96. J Ethnopharmacol. 2021 Aug 10;276:114171. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2021.114171.
Epub  2021 Apr 30.

Phytochemical properties, biological activities and medicinal use of Centaurium 
erythraea Rafn.

El Menyiy N(1), Guaouguaou FE(2), El Baaboua A(3), El Omari N(4), Taha D(5), 
Salhi N(6), Shariati MA(7), Aanniz T(8), Benali T(9), Zengin G(10), El-Shazly 
M(11), Chamkhi I(12), Bouyahya A(13).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Natural Substances, Pharmacology, Environment, Modeling, Health 
and Quality of Life (SNAMOPEQ), Faculty of Sciences Dhar El Mahraz, Sidi Mohamed 
Ben Abdellah University, Fez, Morocco. Electronic address: 
Nawal.elmenyiy@usmba.ac.ma.
(2)Mohammed V University in Rabat, LPCMIO, Materials Science Center (MSC), Ecole 
Normale Supérieure, Rabat, Morocco. Electronic address: f.guaouguaou@gmail.com.
(3)Biology and Health Laboratory, Department of Biology, Faculty of Science, 
Abdelmalek-Essaadi University, Tetouan, Morocco. Electronic address: 
elbaabou.aicha@gmail.com.
(4)Laboratory of Histology, Embryology, and Cytogenetic, Faculty of Medicine and 
Pharmacy, Mohammed V University in Rabat, Morocco. Electronic address: 
nasrelomari@gmail.com.
(5)Laboratoire de Spectroscopie, Modélisation Moléculaire, Matériaux, 
Nanomatériaux, Eau et Environnement, CERNE2D, Faculté des Sciences, Université 
Mohammed V, Rabat, Morocco. Electronic address: douae.taha02@gmail.com.
(6)Laboratory of Pharmacology and Toxicology, Faculty of Medicine and Pharmacy, 
Mohammed V University in Rabat, Morocco. Electronic address: 
salhi.najoua@yahoo.fr.
(7)Departement of Technology of Food Production, K.G. Razumoysky Moscow State 
University of Technologies and Management (the First Cossack University), 
109004, Moscow, Russian Federation. Electronic address: 
shariatymohammadali@gmail.com.
(8)Environment and Health Team, Polydisciplinary Faculty of Safi, Cadi Ayyad 
University, Marrakech, Morocco. Electronic address: tarik.aanniz@gmail.com.
(9)Medical Biotechnology Laboratory (MedBiotech), Rabat Medical & Pharmacy 
School, Mohammed V University in Rabat, 6203, Rabat, Morocco. Electronic 
address: benali.taoufiq@gmail.com.
(10)Biochemistry and Physiology Laboratory, Department of Biology, Faculty of 
Science, Selcuk University, Campus, Konya, Turkey. Electronic address: 
biyologzengin@gmail.com.
(11)Department of Pharmacognosy, Faculty of Pharmacy, Ain-Shams University, 
Cairo, 11566, Egypt; Department of Pharmaceutical Biology, Faculty of Pharmacy 
and Biotechnology, German University in Cairo, Cairo, 11835, Egypt. Electronic 
address: mohamed.elshazly@pharma.asu.edu.eg.
(12)Laboratory of Plant-Microbe Interactions, AgroBioSciences, Mohammed VI 
Polytechnic University, Ben Guerir, Morocco; Centre GEOPAC, Laboratoire de 
Geobiodiversite et Patrimoine Naturel Université Mohammed V de, Institut 
Scientifique Rabat, Morocco. Electronic address: chamkhi.imane@gmail.com.
(13)Laboratory of Human Pathologies Biology, Department of Biology, Faculty of 
Sciences, And Genomic Center of Human Pathologies, Faculty of Medicine and 
Pharmacy, Mohammed V University in Rabat, Morocco. Electronic address: 
boyahyaa-90@hotmail.fr.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Centaurium erythraea is an important medicinal 
plant in many countries, e.g. Morocco, Algeria, Italy, Spain, Portugal, and 
countries of Balkan Peninsula. It is used in folk medicine to treat various 
illnesses. It is also used as an antiapoplectic, anticoagulant, anticholagogue, 
antipneumonic, hematocathartic, and as a hypotensive agent.
AIM OF THE REVIEW: In this review, previous reports on the taxonomy, botanical 
description, geographic distribution, ethnomedicinal applications, 
phytochemistry, pharmacological properties, and toxicity of Centaurium erythraea 
were critically summarized.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Scientific search engines including PubMed, 
ScienceDirect, SpringerLink, Web of Science, Scopus, Wiley Online, SciFinder, 
and Google Scholar were consulted to collect data on C. erythraea. The data 
presented in this work summarized the main reports on C. erythraea phytochemical 
compounds, ethnomedicinal uses, and pharmacological activities.
RESULTS: C. erythraea is used in traditional medicine to treat various diseases 
such as diabetes, fever, rhinitis, stomach ailments, urinary tract infections, 
dyspeptic complaints, loss of appetite, and hemorrhoids, and as diuretic. The 
essential oils and extracts of C. erythraea exhibited numerous biological 
properties such as antibacterial, antioxidant, antifungal, antileishmanial, 
anticancer, antidiabetic, anti-inflammatory, insecticidal, diuretic, 
gastroprotective, hepatoprotective, dermatoprotective, neuroprotective, and 
inhibitory agent for larval development. Phytochemical characterization of C. 
erythraea revealed the presence of several classes of secondary metabolites such 
as xanthonoids, terpenoids, flavonoids, phenolic acids, and fatty acids.
CONCLUSIONS: Ethnomedicinal studies demonstrated the use of C. erythraea for the 
treatment of various disorders. Pharmacological reports showed that C. erythraea 
especially its aerial parts and roots exhibited potent, and beneficial 
activities. These findings confirmed the link between the traditional medicinal 
use and the results of the scientific biological experiments. Considering these 
results, further investigation using diverse in vivo pharmacological assays are 
strongly recommended to validate the results of its traditional use. 
Toxicological tests and pharmacokinetic studies are also required to validate 
the safety and efficacy of C. erythraea and its bioactive contents.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2021.114171
PMID: 33940085 [Indexed for MEDLINE]