[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: Developing fibrin-based biomaterials/scaffolds in tissue eng | Type: OpenAlex-OA | Level: Graduate]

[OpenAlex | Materials Science | Year: 2024 | Citations: 79]

Title: Developing fibrin-based biomaterials/scaffolds in tissue engineering

Abstract:
Tissue engineering technology has advanced rapidly in recent years, offering opportunities to construct biologically active tissues or organ substitutes to repair or even enhance the functions of diseased tissues and organs. Tissue-engineered scaffolds rebuild the extracellular microenvironment by mimicking the extracellular matrix. Fibrin-based scaffolds possess numerous advantages, including hemostasis, high biocompatibility, and good degradability. Fibrin scaffolds provide an initial matrix that facilitates cell migration, differentiation, proliferation, and adhesion, and also play a critical role in cell-matrix interactions. Fibrin scaffolds are now widely recognized as a key component in tissue engineering, where they can facilitate tissue and organ defect repair. This review introduces the properties of fibrin, including its composition, structure, and biology. In addition, the modification and cross-linking modes of fibrin are discussed, along with various forms commonly used in tissue engineering. We also describe the biofunctionalization of fibrin. This review provides a detailed overview of the use and applications of fibrin in skin, bone, and nervous tissues, and provides novel insights into future research directions for clinical treatment. • Fibrin promotes cell proliferation, migration, differentiation and adhesion. • Fibrin can be modified to enhance its biochemical and mechanical properties. • Fibrin can be used in various forms such as fibrin hydrogel and fibrin glue. • Biofunctionalization of fibrin promotes its application scope in tissue engineering. • Fibrin scaffolds are widely used in skin, nerve and other tissues damage repair.