[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: photodynamic therapy cancer clinical trial | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: photodynamic therapy cancer clinical trial]

98. Methods Mol Biol. 2010;635:261-80. doi: 10.1007/978-1-60761-697-9_17.

Photodynamic diagnosis and therapy and the brain.

Kostron H(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Medical University of Innsbruck, Innsbruck, 
Austria.

Photodynamic techniques such as photodynamic diagnosis (PDD), 
fluorescence-guided tumour resection (FGR) and photodynamic therapy (PDT) are 
currently undergoing intensive clinical investigations as adjuvant treatment for 
malignant brain tumours. The following chapter provides an overview on the 
current clinical data and trials of PDT as well as photosensitizers, technical 
developments and indications for photodynamic application in neurosurgery. 
Besides many clinical phase I/II trials for PDT for malignant brain tumours, 
there are only few controlled clinical trials following tumour resection. 
Variations in treatment protocols, variation of photosensitizers and light dose 
make the evaluation scientifically difficult; however there is a clear trend 
towards prolonging median survival after one single photodynamic treatment as 
compared to standard therapeutic regimens. According to the meta analysis the 
median survival after PDT for primary glioblastoma multiforme (WHO grade IV) was 
22 months and for recurrent GBM was 9 months as compared to standard 
conventional treatment, in which it is 15 and 3 months, respectively. 
Fluorescence-guided resection of the tumour demonstrated significant greater 
reduction of tumour burden. The combination of PDD/ FGR and intraoperative PDT 
("to see and to treat") offers an exciting approach to the treatment of 
malignant brain tumours. PDT was generally well tolerated and side effects 
consisted of occasionally increased intracranial pressure and prolonged skin 
sensitivity against direct sunlight.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-60761-697-9_17
PMID: 20552352 [Indexed for MEDLINE]