[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: MRI physics image quality artifact reduction | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: MRI physics image quality artifact reduction]

75. NMR Biomed. 2026 Apr;39(4):e70260. doi: 10.1002/nbm.70260.

Highly Accelerated 3D MRI of Brain Tumors Using Deep Modular Reconstruction 
Networks.

Mekhanik A(1), Stember JN(2), Yildirim O(2), Naveed MA(2), Zhang Z(3), Young 
RJ(2), Otazo R(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Physics, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New 
York, New York, USA.
(2)Department of Radiology, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York, 
New York, USA.
(3)Department of Epidemiology & Biostatistics, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer 
Center, New York, New York, USA.

Post-contrast 3D T1-weighted MRI is a time consuming component of cancer 
neuroimaing protocols. The goal of this study is to accelerate the acquisition 
of 3D MRI using deep learning reconstruction of undersampled k-space data beyond 
clinically-available acceleration techniques. A two-stage deep learning 
framework called Accelerated Deep Modular Image REconstruction (ADMIRE) was 
developed to first remove aliasing artifacts in the accelerated coronal 
orientation (unaliasing network) and subsequently enhance magnitude images in 
axial orientation (enhancement network). The two networks were trained 
independently using data from two 3D T1-weighted sequences on GE Healthcare 
scanners: BRAVO and MPRAGE (Ntotal = 136; NBRAVO = 47; NMPRAGE = 89). 3D MPRAGE 
k-space data with eightfold acceleration (4 × 2 ky-kz undersampling) were 
acquired on 15 patients with enhancing brain lesions and reconstructed with 
ADMIRE to test feasibility. Validation was performed quantitatively against 
data-driven and unrolled deep learning methods and against the clinical 
acquisition that uses a lower acceleration factor using a qualitative reader 
study performed by three radiologists. Composite and individual one-sided 
Wilcoxon signed-rank tests were utilized to assess noninferiority of the 
proposed deep learning approach. Quantitative and qualitative evaluation, 
scoring and statistical testing revealed that ADMIRE displays better image 
quality than both data-driven and unrolled methods and was noninferior compared 
to the clinical standard, despite 32%-46% reductions in acquisition time, in 
terms of overall quality (summing all metric scores and using a composite 
noninferiority margin of 8, p-value < 0.001) and diagnostic confidence 
specifically (using an individual noninferiority margin of 2, p-value = 0.004). 
ADMIRE further increases the current clinical acceleration of T1-weighted 3D MRI 
by enabling higher k-space undersampling factors. The use of a clinical sequence 
and the fast computation speed facilitate clinical translation of ADMIRE.

© 2026 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/nbm.70260
PMID: 41792051 [Indexed for MEDLINE]