[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Propulsion Mechanics | Topic: EmDrive | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# EmDrive — Overview

center-of-gravity issue. Tajmar's team later used such a setup to show that past results had all been artefacts of thermal effects. Electromagnetic interactions These experiments used relatively large electromagnetic inputs to generate small amounts of thrust. As a result, electromagnetic interactions between power leads, between power lines and ambient magnetic fields, or between the apparatus and walls of a test chamber, could all have significant effects. Yang reported in 2016 that an interaction with the Earth's magnetic field had caused the fairly large apparent thrust in their 2012 paper. Tajmar looked for potential Lorentz force interactions between power leads in trying to replicate White's experimental setup. Another source of error could have arisen from electromagnetic interaction with the walls of the vacuum chamber. White argued that any wall interaction could only be the result of a well-formed resonance coupling between the device and wall and that the high frequency used imply the chances of this would be highly dependent on the device's geometry. As components get warmer due to thermal expansion, the device's geometry changes, shifting the resonance of the cavity. In order to counter this effect and keep the system in optimal resonance conditions, White used a phase-locked loop system (PLL). Their analysis assumed that using a PLL ruled out significant electromagnetic interaction with the wall. See also

References

External links 
, Cannae
, EmDrive

Broadcast 2722 EM Drive @ The Space Show
Videos of presentations on EM Drive, Mach Effect, Cannae by March, Woodward, Tajmar and others at the 2016 Breakthrough Propulsion Workshop @ Space Studies Institute YouTube Playlist
TMRO video podcast #EMPossibleDrive 9.16 with builder Dave Distler  @25 minutes in
EmDrive fails tests

Discovery and invention controversies
Fringe physics
Hypothetical technology
Pseudoscience
Spacecraft propulsion