[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: MRI physics image quality artifact reduction | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: MRI physics image quality artifact reduction]

19. J Mach Learn Biomed Imaging. 2022 Jun;2022:018. Epub 2022 Jun 23.

Joint Frequency and Image Space Learning for MRI Reconstruction and Analysis.

Singh NM(1)(2), Iglesias JE(3)(4)(5)(1), Adalsteinsson E(6)(7), Dalca 
AV(3)(4)(1), Golland P(1)(7).

Author information:
(1)Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence Laboratory, MIT, Cambridge, MA, 
USA.
(2)Dept. of Health Sciences & Technology, MIT, Cambridge, MA, USA.
(3)A. A. Martinos Center, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA, USA.
(4)Harvard Medical School, Cambridge, MA, USA.
(5)Centre for Medical Image Computing, UCL, London, UK.
(6)Research Laboratory of Electronics, MIT, Cambridge, MA, USA.
(7)Dept. of Electrical Engineering & Computer Science, MIT, Cambridge, MA, USA.

We propose neural network layers that explicitly combine frequency and image 
feature representations and show that they can be used as a versatile building 
block for reconstruction from frequency space data. Our work is motivated by the 
challenges arising in MRI acquisition where the signal is a corrupted Fourier 
transform of the desired image. The proposed joint learning schemes enable both 
correction of artifacts native to the frequency space and manipulation of image 
space representations to reconstruct coherent image structures at every layer of 
the network. This is in contrast to most current deep learning approaches for 
image reconstruction that treat frequency and image space features separately 
and often operate exclusively in one of the two spaces. We demonstrate the 
advantages of joint convolutional learning for a variety of tasks, including 
motion correction, denoising, reconstruction from undersampled acquisitions, and 
combined undersampling and motion correction on simulated and real world 
multicoil MRI data. The joint models produce consistently high quality output 
images across all tasks and datasets. When integrated into a state of the art 
unrolled optimization network with physics-inspired data consistency constraints 
for undersampled reconstruction, the proposed architectures significantly 
improve the optimization landscape, which yields an order of magnitude reduction 
of training time. This result suggests that joint representations are 
particularly well suited for MRI signals in deep learning networks. Our code and 
pretrained models are publicly available at 
https://github.com/nalinimsingh/interlacer.

PMCID: PMC9639401
PMID: 36349348

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest We declare we don’t have 
conflicts of interest.