[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: biomaterial implant osseointegration titanium clin | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: biomaterial implant osseointegration titanium clinical]

31. J Contemp Dent Pract. 2022 Jun 1;23(6):582-588. Print 2022 Sep 23.

Effect of Cissus quadrangularis Hydrogel on Enhancing Osseointegration of 
Titanium Implant to Bone: An In Vivo Study.

Bhat S(1), Chowdhary R(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Prosthodontics, RajaRajeswari Dental College & Hospital, 
Bengaluru, Karnataka, India, Phone: +91 8867768715, e-mail: 
drsrinidhibhat@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Prosthodontics, RajaRajeswari Dental College & Hospital, 
Bengaluru, Karnataka, India.

AIM: The aim of the study was to evaluate the osteogenic potential of Cissus 
quadrangularis (CQ) hydrogel in enhancing the osseointegration of titanium to 
the bone in an experimental rabbit model.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Six adult male New Zealand white rabbits were used in 
this study. A total of 24 implants (12 coated test implants and 12 uncoated 
control implants) were placed in these 6 rabbits. A polyethylene glycol (PEG) 
hydrogel was prepared with the C. quadrangularis hydrogel in which the test 
implants were coated. Each rabbit was operated on both hind legs and one 
implant, each, was placed in the femur and tibia. Hence, one rabbit received 
four implants [two test implants (HG coated) and two control implants 
(uncoated)]. The animals were sacrificed after 4 weeks, and the specimens were 
histomorphometrically analyzed. The bone-to-implant contact (BIC) and the bone 
area fraction occupancy (BAFO) were calculated using Image J analysis.
RESULTS: The statistically analyzed values which were obtained by paired t-test, 
revealed that the average mean values were higher in the test implants (coated) 
than the control implants (uncoated). The BIC values of the test implants were 
not significantly different from the control implants in the case of both femur 
and tibia (p >0.05). The test implants showed significantly increased BAFO 
values in femur (p <0.05). However, the BAFO values of test implants in tibia 
did not vary significantly from the control implants.
CONCLUSION: Based on the findings of the study, the authors conclude that the 
coating of C. quadrangularis hydrogel enhances the osseointegration of titanium 
implants to bone. The further studies need to be designed to check the 
osseointegrative potential of C. quadrangularis.
CLINICAL SIGNIFICANCE: The findings of this study suggest that the C. 
quadrangularis hydrogel is a potent osteogenic material that can reduce the 
osseointegration period and thus enhance the patient compliance toward implant 
treatment.

PMID: 36259295 [Indexed for MEDLINE]