[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Propulsion Mechanics | Topic: Flying Machines — W.J. Jackman (early aerodynamics) | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Flying Machines — W.J. Jackman (early aerodynamics) — Overview

or altogeather. [Sidenote: In the 53. cannon.] In the counsell of Laodicea, which was holden in the yeare 368. ther was a cannon made, in these proper tearmes, or wordes. It must be not admitted that the Christians, which either goe or come to mariages, leape or daunse, but that chastlye & soberly they sup or dyne, and as it is seemly and conuenient for christians. Likewise in the yeare 676. there was holden
& kept the sixt councell of Constantinople, where daunses were
forbidden, principally to women as greatly hurtfull. [Sidenote: In the canon 22.]  The third councel of Toletum, condemneth
the peruerse and wicked custome of suche people which occupied
themselues in vile and infected daunses: and aboue all uppon the
Sondayes, and holy dayes when they should haue imployed themselues in
the seruice of God. [Sidenote: Article 23.]  According to these Canons, there was made by
the estates lately holden at Orleans, in the young age or minority of
Charles the 9. an article, in which, amongest other thinges all iudges
are forbidden to permit or suffer any publicke daunses, uppon the
sondayes, and other solonme holy dayes. But in the first place it were to be desired, and wished, that this
ordinance might be straitly obserued and kept. Secondlye, that it were
more generall, that is to say, that it did wholly and altogeather
forbidd daunses, as wicked and unlawful thinges: for if we be
Christians indeede, we ought not to suffer, that some pore and blinde
Pagans should surmount and ouercome us in honesty & modesty. We fynd
that amongest the Romains, they which were ouermuch geuen to
daunsinge, caried, or bare with them so greate a note or marke of
infamy, & sklaunder, that they oftentimes accounted and estemed them
unworthy to exercise or haue a publicke and honorable office: as
appeareth by the censure, punishment, and correction, of Domitian,
who, for thys only cause, cast out of the Senate a citizen of Rome, as
unmeete, and unworthy of such a degree of honor. Saluit in his Oration
against Catilina, speaking of a certaine woman, named Sempronia,
sayeth that shee could daunse more delicately and fynely, then did
appertaine to an honest and good woman. Cicero much reprocheth and
upbraydeth, yea and constantly obiecteth, to Gabinius the studying and
practisinge of daunses, as an infamous thing. He both like in his
Philippickes agaynst Antonius, and in the oration of Durena, he sayth
that a sober man neuer daunseth, neither a part or priuily, neyther in
an honest & moderate banquet, unlesse perhaps hee be unwyse, or out of
his wit. [Sidenote: Daunsers are folish & senseles persons.]  Varro writeth,
that Scipio was wont to say, that there was no difference at all
betweene a furious, outragious, or mad man and a daunser, sauing that
this man, that is to say, the daunser was then onely mad when he
daunsed, and the other was so all his life long. From thence commeth
the Latine prouerbe, that daunsers play the fooles, or wantons, but it
is with measure. Here wee euidently and playnly see, in what estimation and regard
daunses were among Pagans and infidels, which trulye could not iudge
otherwise therof, I speake of them which had the best and more sound
iudgement, and which were able to weigh and consider, as well the
daunses themselues, as their so pretious fruites, and excellent
effectes. For if it be, yet after feastes and banquets, men commonly
set, or geue themselues to daunse, and after that men be full of wyne
and good meates, they bee then prouoked & pricked forwarde, by the
prickes of the flesh, to what end serue such manner of gestures, if
not, to make manifest & set out their intemperency. Now if men would
refer it, or bringe it to bodily exercise, this would be very folishly
done. For the body of her owne health, requireth not to be so shaken,
tossed, and as a man woulde say, hunted after meate, for feare to
hinder digestion, as the Phisition placed it amonge their rules of
diet. Moreouer seeing yet men may exercise themselues in many other
maners and sortes of exercises, hee, as mee thinketh openly sheweth,
yet he hath not modesty, nor temperance, nor his health it selfe in
estimation, yet is, he estemeth & regardeth not. &c. which choseth
daunsing for his exercise. Daunses then were neuer heretofore
otherwise accounted of, nether be at this present otherwise thought
of, then mere vilany, & a most certaine, plaine, and evident testimony
of the filthines & intemperancy of them which delighted themselues
therin. Now, that so it is, the Prouerbe sayeth, De la panse, vient la
Danse: from the panch commeth the daunce: [Sidenote: Math. 14. Mark. 6] And if we durst ioine therto whoredom their elder daughter,
we shal find that she followeth after immediately. which thing we
shall easily fynd, if we consider the most ordinary & common effectes
of daunsing. what was the cause that Herode so lightly promised, to
that goodlye daunser Salome, the daughter of Herodias, euen the one
halfe of his Realme, and kingdome, but that by her vilanous, and
shameles daunsing, shee had stirred up and set on fyre his
concupiscence and lust who was already a villanous adulterer, and
infamous whoremonger, so that the delighte and pleasure which he take
therin, provoked him to be willing to make so excessiue and
unmeasurable a recompence: Moreouer let us marke more narrowly in
Genesis, that which is written of Dina the daughter of Jacob, and we
shall find that daunses were partly the cause of her rauishing, or
deflouring.