[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Propulsion Mechanics | Topic: General Electric YF120 | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# General Electric YF120 — Overview

of variable cycle turbine engine technology into an adaptive three-stream architecture. The follow-on Adaptive Engine Technology Demonstrator (AETD), Adaptive Engine Transition Program (AETP) and the Next Generational Adaptive Propulsion (NGAP) resulted in the development of the GE XA100 and the P&W XA101 for potential reengining of the Lockheed Martin F-35 and adaptive engines for the Next Generation Air Dominance and F/A-XX programs, successors to the ATF. Design
The YF120 is a twin-spool axial-flow afterburning turbofan. The design consists of a two-stage fan driven by the single-stage low-pressure turbine and a five-stage compressor driven by the single-stage high-pressure turbine. Notably, the engine has two bypass channels which are located at the front and rear of the first compressor stage of the high-pressure spool, also known as the core-driven fan stage; these two bypass channels are key to the engine's variable cycle operation. The annular combustor is a double-dome design. The high and low-pressure spools are counter-rotating, which eliminates the stationary vanes between the turbines and reducing the number of parts and decreasing weight. The engine is controlled by a three-channel fuel-cooled full authority digital engine control (FADEC) system. Variable cycle
The YF120's variable cycle system worked by varying the bypass ratio of the engine for different flight regimes, allowing the engine to act like either a low bypass turbofan or nearly a turbojet. As a low bypass turbofan (like competitor F119), the engine performed similarly to comparable engines, with the aft bypass channel behind the core-driven fan stage open. When needed, however, the engine could direct more airflow through the hot core of the engine (like a turbojet) by closing the aft bypass channel, increasing the specific thrust of the engine. This made the engine more efficient at high altitude, high thrust levels than a traditional low bypass turbofan. Fan-to-core pressure matching was performed by a variable area bypass injector (VABI). An expected disadvantage of this variable cycle system would be increased complexity and weight. GE claims to have combated this by using simple pressure driven valves rather than complex mechanically actuated valves to divert airflow. GE stated that this system resulted in the variable cycle system adding only 10 lb to the engine. Additionally, a production F120 engine was expected to have 40% fewer parts than the F110 engine. Nozzle
The YF120 had different nozzle designs for the YF-22 and YF-23 technology demonstrator prototypes tailored to the specific airframe. The engine for the YF-22 featured a two-dimensional thrust vectoring nozzle that could vector in the pitch direction. This capability gave the aircraft a serious advantage in pitch agility by greatly increasing the amount of nose pitching moment available to the aircraft. The pitching moment is traditionally generated by the horizontal stabilizer (and/or canard, if applicable), but with a thrust vectoring nozzle that moment can be augmented by the thrust of the engine. During high AoA demonstrations, the YF120-powered YF-22 flew at trimmed AoA of 60 degrees at 82 knots. At this attitude the aircraft was able to demonstrate controllability. Later analysis revealed that the aircraft could have maintained controlled, trimmed flight up to 70 degrees AoA. The wedge shapes of the nozzle flaps also reduce the infrared signature by flattening the exhaust plume and mixing it with shed vortices for cooling. On the YF-23, rather than a thrust-vectoring nozzle, the engine had a single-expansion ramp nozzle (SERN), with the top consisting of a variable external flap, or paddle, to control the nozzle area while the bottom was a fixed ramp. The engines were placed well forward of the trailing edge of the YF-23's aft fuselage, where each nozzle transitions to a trench on top of the aft fuselage that is lined with heat-resistant material. This allows the exhaust plume to be rapidly cooled before exiting the aircraft, significantly reducing the infrared signature particularly when viewed from below; the trenches in the aft deck were lined with tiles that were “transpiration cooled” from engine bleed air to withstand the heat of the exhaust. Applications
 Lockheed YF-22
 Northrop YF-23

Specifications (YF120)

See also

References

 GE unveils ramjet design for shuttle  Technology News Flight International 23/09/03 . External links

 GE/Allison/Rolls-Royce Team Developing YF120 Fighter Engine for JSF Aircraft Candidates. Press release GE Aviation (Sept 2, 1996). National Museum of the U.S. Air Force page on the YF120
 Northrop YF-23 Enthusiast's site

YF120
Low-bypass turbofan engines
1980s turbofan engines
Abandoned military aircraft engine projects of the United States