[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: pharmacognosy medicinal plant active compound isol | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: pharmacognosy medicinal plant active compound isolation]

48. Vet Med Sci. 2022 Nov;8(6):2738-2772. doi: 10.1002/vms3.912. Epub 2022 Aug
29.

The anti-Trypanosoma activities of medicinal plants: A systematic review of the 
literature.

Nekoei S(1), Khamesipour F(1)(2), Habtemariam S(3), de Souza W(4)(5), Mohammadi 
Pour P(6), Hosseini SR(1).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Shahrekord Branch, Islamic Azad University, 
Shahrekord, Iran.
(2)Center for Research and Training in Skin Diseases and Leprosy, Tehran 
University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(3)Pharmacognosy Research Laboratories and Herbal Analysis Services, University 
of Greenwich, Central Avenue, Chatham-Maritime, Gillingham, Kent, UK.
(4)Laboratório de Ultraestrutura Celular Hertha Meyer, Instituto de Biofísica 
Carlos Chagas Filho, Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro, Rio de Janeiro, RJ, 
Brazil.
(5)Instituto Nacional de Ciência e Tecnologia em Biologia Estrutural e 
Bioimagens e Centro Nacional de Biologia Estrutural e Bioimagens, Universidade 
Federal do Rio de Janeiro, Rio de Janeiro, RJ, Brazil.
(6)Phytochemistry Research Center, Shahid Beheshti University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran, Iran.

BACKGROUND: The existing drug treatments for trypanosomiases are limited and 
suffer from shortcomings due to their toxicity and the emergence of resistant 
parasites. Developing anti-trypanosomal compounds based on natural products is a 
promising way of fighting trypanosomiases.
OBJECTIVES: This study aims to identify through scientific review a large 
variety of medicinal plants (anti-trypanosomal) used worldwide and 
scientifically shown to display anti-trypanosomal effects.
METHODS: To collect data, the anti-trypanosomal activities of Africa, Asia, the 
Middle East, South America, North America, Europe and Oceania medicinal plants 
have been checked by considering the published paper.
RESULTS: Based on collected data, 77 natural molecules were reported in the 
literature. Of which 59 were from the African region, 11 from Asia, 3 from 
Europe and 4 from Latin America. These active components belong to alkaloids, 
triterpenoids, lactone, quinoids, flavonoids, iridoids, lignans, steroids, 
lipids, oxygenated heterocycles, benzenoids, proteins, coumarins, 
phenylpropanoids and peptides. We also specified the prosperous plants with 
unique anti-trypanosomal activities.
CONCLUSIONS: However, there is a need for further studies on the ability of the 
isolated compounds to ameliorate the trypanosome-induced pathological 
alterations and also the elucidation of their modes of actions and activities 
against other trypanosome species.

© 2022 The Authors. Veterinary Medicine and Science published by John Wiley & 
Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/vms3.912
PMCID: PMC9677405
PMID: 36037401 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.