[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: magnetic nanoparticle hyperthermia cancer therapy | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: magnetic nanoparticle hyperthermia cancer therapy]

55. Colloids Surf B Biointerfaces. 2016 Dec 1;148:157-164. doi: 
10.1016/j.colsurfb.2016.08.055. Epub 2016 Aug 31.

Doxorubicin-loaded photosensitive magnetic liposomes for multi-modal cancer 
therapy.

Shah SA(1), Aslam Khan MU(2), Arshad M(3), Awan SU(4), Hashmi MU(5), Ahmad N(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physics, Forman Christian College (University), Lahore, 
Pakistan; Materials Science & Engineering, University of Washington, Seattle, 
WA, USA. Electronic address: saqlainshah@fccollege.edu.pk.
(2)Department of Polymer Engineering and Technology, University of the Punjab, 
Lahore, Pakistan.
(3)Nanoscience Division, National Center for Physics, Islamabad, Pakistan.
(4)Department of Physics, COMSATS institute of information technology, 
Islamabad, Pakistan.
(5)Department of Applied Sciences, Superior University, Lahore, Pakistan.
(6)Department of Physics, Islamic International University, Islamabad, Pakistan.

Multifunctional magnetic nanosystems have attracted an enormous attention of 
researchers for their potential applications in cancer diagnostics and therapy. 
The localized nanotherapies triggered by the external stimuli, like magnetic 
fields and visible light, are significant in clinical applications. We report a 
liposomal system that aims to treat cancer by magnetic hyperthermia, 
photodynamic therapy and chemotherapy simultaneously. The liposomes enclose 
clinically used photosensitizer m-THPC (Foscan) and anti-cancer drug 
doxorubicin, in its hydrophobic lipid bilayers, and contains magnetite 
nanoparticles in hydrophilic core. Three different sizes of magnetic 
nanoparticles (10, 22 and 30nm) and liposomes (40, 70 and 110nm) were used in 
this study. Magnetite single domain nanoparticles forming the magnetic core were 
superparamagnetic but liposomes expressed slight coercivity and hysteresis due 
to the clustering of nanoparticles in the core. This enhanced the heating 
efficiency (specific power loss) of the liposomes under an AC field (375kHz, 
170Oe). Cell viability and toxicity were studied on HeLa cells using MTT assay 
and proteomic analysis. Confocal and fluorescence microscopy were used to study 
the photosensitizer's profile and cells response to combined therapy. It 
revealed that combined therapy almost completely eliminated the cancer cells as 
opposed to the separate treatments. Magnetic hyperthermia and photodynamic 
therapies were almost equally effective whereas chemotherapy showed the least 
effect.

Copyright © 2016. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.colsurfb.2016.08.055
PMID: 27595890 [Indexed for MEDLINE]