[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: MRI physics image quality artifact reduction | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: MRI physics image quality artifact reduction]

20. Conf Proc IEEE Eng Med Biol Soc. 2006;2006:17-20. doi: 
10.1109/IEMBS.2006.259560.

Receive coil arrays and parallel imaging for functional magnetic resonance 
imaging of the human brain.

de Zwart JA(1), van Gelderen P, Duyn JH.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Functional & Molecular Imaging, National Institute of 
Neurological Disorders and Stroke, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 
20892-1605, USA. Jacco.deZwart@nih.gov

The use of multiple small receive coils has several advantages over a single 
larger (e.g. birdcage) coil. With an array of small receive coils, image 
signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) can be optimized throughout the field-of-view and 
the image acquisition process can be accelerated by use of parallel imaging (PI) 
techniques. In an accelerated PI experiment, data are undersampled during 
acquisition. Subsequently, artifact-free images are reconstructed based on the 
independently acquired signals from the elements of the receive coil array. PI 
techniques have recently been applied to functional MRI (fMRI) experiments of 
the human brain in order to improve the performance of commonly used single-shot 
techniques like echo-planar imaging (EPI). Potential benefits of PI-fMRI include 
the reduction of geometrical distortions due to off-resonance signals, the 
reduction of signal-loss in areas with substantial signal inhomogeneity, 
increases of the spatial and temporal resolution of the fMRI experiment and 
reduction of gradient acoustic noise. Although the loss in SNR, inherent to PI, 
can severely compromise MRI image quality, the effect on fMRI quality, which is 
governed by the temporal stability of the signal, is often not as severe. On the 
other hand, PI's potential in mitigating the often severe image artifacts 
present in single-shot fMRI render it an important tool, in particular with the 
recent surge in high field MRI applications.

DOI: 10.1109/IEMBS.2006.259560
PMID: 17946771 [Indexed for MEDLINE]