[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Complex Circuit Systems | Topic: Induction heater | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Induction heater — Overview

SCR, IGBT or MOSFETS and in most cases is configured as an H-bridge. The H-bridge has four legs each with a switch, the output circuit is connected across the centre of the devices. When the relevant two switches are closed current flows through the load in one direction, these switches then open and the opposing two switches close allowing current to flow in the opposite direction. By precisely timing the opening and closing of the switches, it is possible to sustain oscillations in the load circuit. Output circuit
The output circuit has the job of matching the output of the inverter to that required by the coil. This can in it simplest form be a capacitor or in some cases will feature a combination of capacitors and transformers. Control system
The control section monitors all the parameters in the load circuit, the inverter and supplies switching pulses at the appropriate time to supply energy to the output circuit. Early systems featured discrete electronics with variable potentiometers to adjust switching times, current limits, voltage limits and frequency trips. However, with the advent of microcontroller technology, the majority of advanced systems now feature digital control. The voltage-fed inverter
The voltage-fed inverter features a filter capacitor on the input to the inverter and a series resonant output circuits. The voltage-fed system is extremely popular and can be used with either SCRs up to frequencies of 10 kHz, IGBTs to 100 kHz and MOSFETs up to 3 MHz. A voltage-fed inverter with a series connection to a parallel load is also known as a third order system. Basically this is similar to solid state, but in this system the series connected internal capacitor and inductor are connected to a parallel output tank circuit. The principal advantage of this type of system is the robustness of the inverter due to the internal circuit effectively isolating the output circuit making the switching components less susceptible to damage due to coil flash-overs or mismatching. The current-fed inverter
The current-fed inverter is different from the voltage-fed system in that it utilizes a variable DC input followed by a large inductor at the input to the inverter bridge. The power circuit features a parallel resonant circuit and can have operating frequencies typically from 1 kHz to 1 MHz. As with the voltage-fed system, SCRs are typically used up to 10 kHz with IGBTs and MOSFETs being used at the higher frequencies. Suitable materials 
Suitable materials are those with high permeability (100-500) which are heated below the Curie temperature of that material. See also 
 Induction forging
 Induction shrink fitting
 Induction hardening
 Induction heating
 Drum heater

References

Notes

Bibliography
. External links
Sheffield University undertakes fundamental and applied research on enabling induction heater technologies - University of Sheffield
Induction soldering using induction heater technology example from TWI
Animation showing heating rates derived from FEA of mains frequency Induction Drum Heater - LMK Thermosafe Ltd
Comprehensive tutorial on the theory and operation of an induction heater, including schematics for a low and high power device capable of levitating metals. Heaters
Industrial equipment