[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: National Solidarity (Peru) | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# National Solidarity (Peru) — Overview

National Solidarity Party (, PSN), was a conservative Peruvian political party. Founded in 1998 for the 2000 general election to support the candidacy of Luis Castañeda Lossio, a former Lima City Council member from Popular Action. Following the end of Alberto Fujimori's regime, the party formed the National Unity coalition with the Christian People's Party and other minor parties. Led by Lourdes Flores, the coalition placed third at the 2001 and 2006 general elections, while at municipal level, it won the capital city of Lima with Castañeda as the mayoral nominee. Throughout Castañeda's first two terms as Mayor of Lima from 2003 to 2010, National Solidarity remained a strong municipal party, while at national level in the Peruvian Congress, representation was slim as the National Unity coalition was mostly dominated by Christian People's Party. For the 2011 general election, the party left the coalition to form its own eponymous one under the name of National Solidarity Alliance, with other four minor parties. With Luis Castañeda as the presidential nominee, the won 9.8% of the popular vote, placing fifth, while in the Peruvian Congress, the alliance attained 9 representatives. At the legislative elections held on 26 January 2020, the party won 1.5% of the popular vote but no seats in the Congress of the Republic under businessman Rafael López Aliaga's leadership. Upon the results, the party announced a restructuring process, which ended in National Solidarity's re-foundation as Popular Renewal. History

Foundation and National Unity
National Solidarity was founded on 5 May 1998 by Luis Castañeda Lossio based on the principles of economic liberalism and republicanism. The organization was officially declared a party on 4 May 2006, by the National Elections Jury. Although at the beginning the party emerged as an opposition party to Fujimorism, and even at one point in the early stages of the 2000 campaign, Luis Castañeda Lossio was considered a potential opposition leader to the regime, the party eventually shifted ideologically to the right-wing, which is the basis of Fujimorism historically. On December 18, 1999, National Solidarity launched the candidacy of Luis Castañeda Lossio at a rally in Chiclayo that drew 6,000 attendees for the 2000 general election, but attained only 1.8% of the popular vote, placing fifth, behind Federico Salas (Avancemos), Alberto Andrade (We are Peru), Alejandro Toledo (Peru Posible) and Alberto Fujimori (Peru 2000). In the same election, Alberto Fujimori was reelected for a third presidential term, but his regime would eventually collapse amid a corruption scandal. The party was initially represented by 5 congressmen, but 3 ended up switching to a different caucus in the opening session of Congress leaving only with 2 congressmen only. Following the fall of the Fujimori regime and after Valentín Paniagua assumed the position of transitional President, he called for general elections for April 8, 2001. In those new elections. National Solidarity presented for the second time the candidacy of Luis Castañeda Lossio to the Presidency of the Republic. At the beginning of January 2001, National Solidarity registered the presidential plate that it presented for the elections of that year in which Castañeda was accompanied as presidential candidate by the businessman and former Fujimorist first vice president Máximo San Román and the obstetrician Mirtha Ortiz, as first second vice president respectively. Due to the return of the traditional parties (the APRA with Alan García and the Christian People’s Party with Lourdes Flores), the rise of Alejandro Toledo from Possible Peru and taking into account that in the last election, Castañeda Lossio only got 1.8% From the electorate's votes, National Solidarity withdrew its presidential plate a month after having registered it and decided to support the candidacy of Lourde Flores. Afterwards, National Solidarity sealed a coalition with the Christian People's Party and National Renewal, under the name of National Unity. With former congresswoman Lourdes Flores as the presidential nominee at the 2001 general election, the coalition ended up third with 24.3% of the popular vote, but failed to qualify to the run-off. Having the coalition attained 17 congressional representatives (and mainly from Lima), National Solidarity was represented by 3, while the PPC held the majority of the caucus. Of the 3 party congressmen, César Acuña of La Libertad ended leaving the caucus only 5 months into the election in order to found his own political party, Alliance for Progress. Lima mayoralty under Castañeda (2003-2010)
As Alejandro Toledo of Possible Peru won the presidency at the 2001 general election, National Unity and the Peruvian Aprista Party formed the main opposition caucuses in the Peruvian Congress. At municipal level, the coalition succeeded in launching National Solidarity leader Luis Castañeda Lossio for the mayorship of Lima, which ended up defeating incumbent mayor Alberto Andrade of We Are Peru who is a former member of the Christian People's Party, and winning the capital with 39.9% of the popular vote.