[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: biomaterial implant osseointegration titanium clin | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: biomaterial implant osseointegration titanium clinical]

19. Acta Biomater. 2011 Jan;7(1):432-40. doi: 10.1016/j.actbio.2010.08.020. Epub 
2010 Sep 15.

Bone-implant interface strength and osseointegration: Biodegradable magnesium 
alloy versus standard titanium control.

Castellani C(1), Lindtner RA, Hausbrandt P, Tschegg E, Stanzl-Tschegg SE, Zanoni 
G, Beck S, Weinberg AM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Paediatric and Adolescent Surgery, Medical University of Graz, 
Austria.

Previous research on the feasibility of using biodegradable magnesium alloys for 
bone implant applications mainly focused on biocompatibility and corrosion 
resistance. However, successful clinical employment of endosseous implants is 
largely dependent on biological fixation and anchorage in host bone to withstand 
functional loading. In the present study, we therefore aimed to investigate 
whether bone-implant interface strength and osseointegration of a novel 
biodegradable magnesium alloy (Mg-Y-Nd-HRE, based on WE43) is comparable to that 
of a titanium control (Ti-6Al-7Nb) currently in clinical use. Biomechanical 
push-out testing, microfocus computed tomography and scanning electron 
microscopy were performed in 72 Sprague-Dawley rats 4, 12 and 24 weeks after 
implantation to address this question. Additionally, blood smears were obtained 
from each rat at sacrifice to detect potential systemic inflammatory reactions. 
Push-out testing revealed highly significantly greater maximum push-out force, 
ultimate shear strength and energy absorption to failure in magnesium alloy rods 
than in titanium controls after each implantation period. Microfocus computed 
tomography showed significantly higher bone-implant contact and bone volume per 
tissue volume in magnesium alloy implants as well. Direct bone-implant contact 
was verified by histological examination. In addition, no systemic inflammatory 
reactions were observed in any of the animals. We conclude that the tested 
biodegradable implant is superior to the titanium control with respect to both 
bone-implant interface strength and osseointegration. These results suggest that 
the investigated biodegradable magnesium alloy not only achieves enhanced bone 
response but also excellent interfacial strength and thus fulfils two critical 
requirements for bone implant applications.

Copyright © 2010 Acta Materialia Inc. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.actbio.2010.08.020
PMID: 20804867 [Indexed for MEDLINE]