[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: Covariant formulation of classical electromagnetism | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Covariant formulation of classical electromagnetism — Overview

not hold in any other.) It is expressed in terms of the four-potential as follows: In the Lorenz gauge, the microscopic Maxwell's equations can be written as: Lorentz force Charged particle Electromagnetic (EM) fields affect the motion of electrically charged matter: due to the Lorentz force. In this way, EM fields can be detected (with applications in particle physics, and natural occurrences such as in aurorae). In relativistic form, the Lorentz force uses the field strength tensor as follows. Expressed in terms of coordinate time t, it is:

where pα is the four-momentum, q is the charge, and xβ is the position. Expressed in frame-independent form, we have the four-force

where uβ is the four-velocity, and τ is the particle's proper time, which is related to coordinate time by . Charge continuum

The density of force due to electromagnetism, whose spatial part is the Lorentz force, is given by

and is related to the electromagnetic stress–energy tensor by

Conservation laws

Electric charge
The continuity equation:

expresses charge conservation. Electromagnetic energy–momentum

Using the Maxwell equations, one can see that the electromagnetic stress–energy tensor (defined above) satisfies the following differential equation, relating it to the electromagnetic tensor and the current four-vector

or

which expresses the conservation of linear momentum and energy by electromagnetic interactions. Covariant objects in matter

Free and bound four-currents

In order to solve the equations of electromagnetism given here, it is necessary to add information about how to calculate the electric current, Jν Frequently, it is convenient to separate the current into two parts, the free current and the bound current, which are modeled by different equations;

where

Maxwell's macroscopic equations have been used, in addition the definitions of the electric displacement D and the magnetic intensity H:

where M is the magnetization and P the electric polarization. Magnetization–polarization tensor

The bound current is derived from the P and M fields which form an antisymmetric contravariant magnetization-polarization tensor 

 

which determines the bound current

Electric displacement tensor

If this is combined with Fμν we get the antisymmetric contravariant  electromagnetic displacement tensor which combines the D and H fields as follows:

The three field tensors are related by:

which is equivalent to the definitions of the D and H fields given above. Maxwell's equations in matter

The result is that Ampère's law,

and Gauss's law,

combine into one equation:

The bound current and free current as defined above are automatically and separately conserved

Constitutive equations

Vacuum

In vacuum, the constitutive relations between the field tensor and displacement tensor are:

Antisymmetry reduces these 16 equations to just six independent equations. Because it is usual to define Fμν by

the constitutive equations may, in vacuum, be combined with the Gauss–Ampère law to get:

The electromagnetic stress–energy tensor in terms of the displacement is:

where δαπ is the Kronecker delta. When the upper index is lowered with η, it becomes symmetric and is part of the source of the gravitational field. Linear, nondispersive matter

Thus we have reduced the problem of modeling the current, Jν to two (hopefully) easier problems — modeling the free current, Jνfree and modeling the magnetization and polarization, . For example, in the simplest materials at low frequencies, one has

where one is in the instantaneously comoving inertial frame of the material, σ is its electrical conductivity, χe is its electric susceptibility, and χm is its magnetic susceptibility. The constitutive relations between the  and F tensors, proposed by Minkowski for a linear materials (that is, E is proportional to D and B proportional to H), are:

where u is the four-velocity of material, ε and μ are respectively the proper permittivity and permeability of the material (i.e. in rest frame of material),  and denotes the Hodge star operator. Lagrangian for classical electrodynamics

Vacuum
The Lagrangian density for classical electrodynamics is composed by two components: a field component and a source component:

In the interaction term, the four-current should be understood as an abbreviation of many terms expressing the electric currents of other charged fields in terms of their variables; the four-current is not itself a fundamental field. The Lagrange equations for the electromagnetic lagrangian density  can be stated as follows:

Noting

the expression inside the square bracket is

The second term is

Therefore, the electromagnetic field's equations of motion are

which is the Gauss–Ampère equation above. Matter

Separating the free currents from the bound currents, another way to write the Lagrangian density is as follows:

Using Lagrange equation, the equations of motion for  can be derived. The equivalent expression in vector notation is:

See also

 Covariant classical field theory
 Electromagnetic tensor
 Electromagnetic wave equation
 Liénard–Wiechert potential for a charge in arbitrary motion
 Moving magnet and conductor problem
 Inhomogeneous electromagnetic wave equation
 Proca action
 Quantum electrodynamics
 Relativistic electromagnetism
 Stueckelberg action
 Wheeler–Feynman absorber theory

Notes and references

Further reading
The Feynman Lectures on Physics Vol.