[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Propulsion Mechanics | Topic: Mars cycler | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Mars cycler — Overview

The excess speed is given by: Which gives a value for of 6.54 km/s. The turn angle can be calculated from: Which gives , meaning that we have an turn. The radius of closest approach to Earth will be given by: Where is the gravitational constant of the Earth. Substituting the values gives = , which is bad because the radius of the Earth is . A correction would therefore be required to comfortably avoid the planet. Proposed use

Aldrin proposed a pair of Mars cycler vehicles providing regular transport between Earth and Mars. While astronauts can tolerate traveling to the Moon in relatively cramped spacecraft for a few days, a mission to Mars, lasting several months, would require much more habitable accommodations for the much longer journey: astronauts would need a facility with ample living space, life support, and heavy radiation shielding. A 1999 NASA study estimated that a mission to Mars would require lifting about  into space, of which  was propellant. Aldrin proposed that the costs of Mars missions could be greatly reduced by use of large space stations in cyclic orbits called castles. Once established in their orbits, they would make regular trips between Earth and Mars without requiring any propellant. Other than consumables, cargo would therefore only have to be launched once. Two castles would be used, an outbound one on an Aldrin cycler with a fast transfer to Mars and long trip back, and an inbound one with fast trip to Earth and long return to Mars, which Aldrin called up and down escalators. The astronauts would meet up with the cycler in Earth orbit and later Mars orbit in specialised craft called taxis. One cycler would travel an outbound route from Earth to Mars in about five months. Another Mars cycler in a complementary trajectory would travel from Mars to Earth, also in about five months. Taxi and cargo vehicles would attach to the cycler at one planet and detach upon reaching the other. The cycler concept would therefore provide for routine, safe, and economical transport between Earth and Mars. A significant drawback of the cycler concept was that the Aldrin cycler flies by both planets at high speed. A taxi would need to accelerate to  around Earth, and  near Mars. To get around this, Aldrin proposed what he called a semi-cycler, in which the castle would slow down around Mars, orbiting it, and later resume the cycler orbit. This would require fuel to execute the braking and re-cycling maneuvers. The castles could be inserted into cycler orbits with considerable savings in fuel by performing a series of low thrust maneuvers: The castle would be placed into an interim orbit upon launch, and then use an Earth-swing-by maneuver to boost it into the final cycler orbit. Assuming the use of conventional fuels, it is possible to estimate the fuel required to establish a cycler orbit. In the case of the Aldrin cycler, use of a gravity assist reduces the fuel requirement by about , or 15 percent. Other cyclers showed less impressive improvement, due to the shape of their orbits, and when they encounter the Earth. In the case of the VISIT-1 cycler, the benefit would be around , less than one percent, which would hardly justify the additional three years required to establish the orbit. See also
Interstellar cycler
Lunar cycler

Notes

References

Additional references
 
 

  }
 
 
 

Spaceflight concepts
Missions to Mars
Buzz Aldrin