[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: natural product antibiotic drug discovery | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: natural product antibiotic drug discovery]

69. Antonie Van Leeuwenhoek. 2014 Jul;106(1):173-88. doi:
10.1007/s10482-014-0204-6.  Epub 2014 Jun 13.

The re-emerging role of microbial natural products in antibiotic discovery.

Genilloud O(1).

Author information:
(1)Fundación MEDINA, Avda Conocimiento 3, Parque Tecnológico Ciencias de la 
Salud, 18016, Granada, Spain, olga.genilloud@medinaandalucia.es.

New classes of antibacterial compounds are urgently needed to respond to the 
high frequency of occurrence of resistances to all major classes of known 
antibiotics. Microbial natural products have been for decades one of the most 
successful sources of drugs to treat infectious diseases but today, the emerging 
unmet clinical need poses completely new challenges to the discovery of novel 
candidates with the desired properties to be developed as antibiotics. While 
natural products discovery programs have been gradually abandoned by the big 
pharma, smaller biotechnology companies and research organizations are taking 
over the lead in the discovery of novel antibacterials. Recent years have seen 
new approaches and technologies being developed and integrated in a 
multidisciplinary effort to further exploit microbial resources and their 
biosynthetic potential as an untapped source of novel molecules. New strategies 
to isolate novel species thought to be uncultivable, and synthetic biology 
approaches ranging from genome mining of microbial strains for cryptic 
biosynthetic pathways to their heterologous expression have been emerging in 
combination with high throughput sequencing platforms, integrated bioinformatic 
analysis, and on-site analytical detection and dereplication tools for novel 
compounds. These different innovative approaches are defining a completely new 
framework that is setting the bases for the future discovery of novel chemical 
scaffolds that should foster a renewed interest in the identification of novel 
classes of natural product antibiotics from the microbial world.

DOI: 10.1007/s10482-014-0204-6
PMID: 24923558 [Indexed for MEDLINE]