[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: The Herbalist — Meyer | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# The Herbalist — Meyer — Overview

flabby, pale man, in a surtout which looked green one moment, and brown the next, with a velvet collar of the same chameleon tints. His forehead was narrow, his face wide, his head large, and his nose all on one side, as if Nature, indignant with the propensities she observed in him at his birth, had given it an angry tweak which it had never recovered. Being short-necked
and asthmatic, however, he respired principally through this feature; so,
perhaps, what it wanted in ornament, it made up in usefulness."

Mr. Pell had successfully piloted Mr. Weller through the Insolvency
Court, and his services were sought to carry out the process by which Sam
Weller became a voluntary prisoner in the Fleet at the suit of his
obdurate parent. "The late Lord Chancellor, gentlemen, was very fond of me," said Mr. Pell. "And wery creditable in him, too," interposed Mr. Weller. "Hear, hear," assented Mr. Pell's client. "Why shouldn't he be?"

   "Ah, why, indeed!" said a very red-faced man, who had said nothing
   yet, and who looked extremely unlikely to say anything more. "Why
   shouldn't he?"

   A murmur of assent ran through the company. "I remember, gentlemen," said Mr. Pell, "dining with him on one
   occasion. There was only us two, but everything as splendid as if
   twenty people had been expected--the great seal on a dumb-waiter at
   his right, and a man in a bag-wig and suit of armour guarding the mace
   with a drawn sword and silk stockings--which is perpetually done,
   gentlemen, night and day; when he said, 'Pell,' he said, 'no false
   delicacy, Pell. You're a man of talent; you can get anybody through
   the Insolvent Court, Pell; and your country should be proud of you.'
   Those were his very words. 'My lord,' I said, 'you flatter me.'
   'Pell,' he said, 'if I do I'm damned.'"

   "Did he say that?" inquired Mr. Weller. "He did," replied Pell. "Vell, then," said Mr. Weller, "I say Parliament ought to ha' took it
   up; and if he'd been a poor man they _would_ ha' done it."

   "But, my dear friend," argued Mr. Pell, "it was in confidence."

   "In what?" said Mr. Weller. "In confidence."

   "Oh! wery good," replied Mr. Weller, after a little reflection. "If
   he damned hisself in confidence, o' course that was another thing."

   "Of course it was," said Mr. Pell. "The distinction's obvious, you
   will perceive."

   "Alters the case entirely," said Mr. Weller. "Go on, sir."

   "No, I will not go on, sir," said Mr. Pell, in a low and serious tone. "You have reminded me, sir, that this conversation was private--private
   and confidential, gentlemen. Gentlemen, I am a professional man. It
   may be that I am a good deal looked up to in my profession--it may be
   that I am not. Most people know. I say nothing. Observations have
   already been made in this room injurious to the reputation of my noble
   friend. You will excuse me, gentlemen; I was imprudent. I feel that
   I have no right to mention this matter without his concurrence. Thank
   you, sir; thank you."

   Thus delivering himself, Mr. Pell thrust his hands into his pockets,
   and, frowning grimly around, rattled three-halfpence with terrible
   determination. We hear also of Mrs. Pell. Mrs. Pell was a tall figure, a splendid woman, with a noble shape, and
   a nose, gentlemen, formed to command, gentlemen, and be majestic. She
   was very much attached to me--very much--highly connected, too. Her
   mother's brother, gentlemen, failed for eight hundred pounds, as a law
   stationer. So we have, ladies and gentlemen, these three types of this honourable
profession. To my mind they have never been quite placed in their proper
order. Perker has been universally admired and looked up to; Dodson and
Fogg have been universally denounced; Mr. Pell has been suffered to
remain unnoticed. Well, let us judge fairly the merits of these three
gentlemen. If Mr. Perker had lived to-day instead of in the year 1827, he would
undoubtedly have been tried for the part he took in the Eatanswill
election. What is the charge, after all, against Messrs. Dodson and
Fogg, except that question with regard to poor Ramsey?--which, after all,
is only a story told by the clerk Wicks, upon whom I do not think we can
place very much reliance. What else did Dodson and Fogg do that should
make them the object of obloquy and universal execration? They brought
an action for breach of promise of marriage--some people think such
actions should never be brought at all--they brought the action for
breach of promise of marriage; they made a little arrangement with regard
to costs, unprofessional if you like, but still nothing to bring down
upon them the denouncement to which they have been made subject. So far
as Mr. Pickwick was concerned, he had absolutely nothing to complain of
in their conduct; and I venture to say it was most reprehensible in him
under the circumstances to use the language which he did upon the
occasion which I have quoted.