[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: pharmacognosy medicinal plant active compound isol | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: pharmacognosy medicinal plant active compound isolation]

7. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2017 Aug;1401(1):166-180. doi: 10.1111/nyas.13421. Epub 2017
 Jul 21.

A comprehensive review of agrimoniin.

Grochowski DM(1), Skalicka-Woźniak K(2), Orhan IE(3), Xiao J(4)(5), Locatelli 
M(6), Piwowarski JP(7), Granica S(7), Tomczyk M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacognosy, Faculty of Pharmacy with the Division of 
Laboratory Medicine, Medical University of Białystok, Białystok, Poland.
(2)Department of Pharmacognosy with Medicinal Plant Unit, Faculty of Pharmacy, 
Medical University of Lublin, Lublin, Poland.
(3)Department of Pharmacognosy, Faculty of Pharmacy, Gazi University, Ankara, 
Turkey.
(4)Institute of Chinese Medical Sciences, University of Macau, Taipa, Macau.
(5)College of Food Science, Fujian Agriculture and Forestry University, Fuzhou, 
China.
(6)Department of Pharmacy, University "G. d'Annunzio" of Chieti-Pescara, Chieti, 
Italy.
(7)Department of Pharmacognosy and Molecular Basis of Phytotherapy, Faculty of 
Pharmacy, Medical University of Warsaw, Warsaw, Poland.

Plant tannins are a unique class of polyphenols with relatively high molecular 
weights. Within the ellagitannins group, agrimoniin--dimeric ellagitannin--is 
one of the most representative compounds found in many plant materials belonging 
to the Rosaceae family. Agrimoniin was first isolated in 1982 from roots of 
Agrimonia pilosa Ledeb. (Rosaceae), a plant traditionally used in Japan and 
China as an antidiarrheal, hemostatic, and antiparasitic agent. Agrimoniin is a 
constituent of medicinal plants, which are often applied orally in the form of 
infusions, decoctions, or tinctures. It is also present in commonly consumed 
food products, such as strawberries and raspberries. It is metabolized by human 
gut microbiota into a series of low-molecular-weight urolithins with proven 
anti-inflammatory and anticancer in vivo and in vitro bioactivities. The 
compound has received widespread interest owing to some interesting biological 
effects and therapeutic activities, which we elaborate in the present review. 
Additionally, we present an overview of the techniques used for the analysis, 
isolation, and separation of agrimoniin from the practical perspective.

© 2017 New York Academy of Sciences.

DOI: 10.1111/nyas.13421
PMID: 28731232 [Indexed for MEDLINE]