[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: pharmacognosy medicinal plant active compound isol | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: pharmacognosy medicinal plant active compound isolation]

60. J Ethnopharmacol. 2015 Jul 1;169:76-98. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2015.03.075. Epub 
2015 Apr 8.

Antimalarial activity of medicinal plants from the Democratic Republic of Congo: 
A review.

Memvanga PB(1), Tona GL(2), Mesia GK(2), Lusakibanza MM(2), Cimanga RK(3).

Author information:
(1)University of Kinshasa, Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Laboratory of 
Pharmaceutics and Phytopharmaceutical Drugs Development, B.P. 212 Kinshasa XI, 
Democratic Republic of Congo. Electronic address: patrick.memvanga@yahoo.fr.
(2)University of Kinshasa, Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Laboratory of 
Pharmacology and Therapeutics, B.P. 212 Kinshasa XI, Democratic Republic of 
Congo.
(3)University of Kinshasa, Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Laboratory of 
Pharmacognosy, B.P. 212 Kinshasa XI, Democratic Republic of Congo; University of 
Antwerp, Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Laboratory of Pharmacognosy and 
Pharmaceutical Analysis, Universiteitsplein 1, B-2610 Antwerp, Belgium.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Malaria is the most prevalent parasitic disease 
and the foremost cause of morbidity and mortality in the Democratic Republic of 
Congo. For the management of this disease, a large Congolese population 
recourses to traditional medicinal plants. To date the efficacy and safety of 
many of these plants have been validated scientifically in rodent malaria 
models. In order to generate scientific evidence of traditional remedies used in 
the Democratic Republic of Congo for the management of malaria, and show the 
potential of Congolese plants as a major source of antimalarial drugs, this 
review highlights the antiplasmodial and toxicological properties of the 
Congolese antimalarial plants investigated during the period of 1999-2014. In 
doing so, a useful resource for further complementary investigations is 
presented. Furthermore, this review may pave the way for the research and 
development of several available and affordable antimalarial phytomedicines.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: In order to get information on the different studies, a 
Google Scholar and PubMed literature search was performed using keywords 
(malaria, Congolese, medicinal plants, antiplasmodial/antimalarial activity, and 
toxicity). Data from non-indexed journals, Master and Doctoral dissertations 
were also collected.
RESULTS: Approximately 120 extracts and fractions obtained from Congolese 
medicinal plants showed pronounced or good antiplasmodial activity. A number of 
compounds with interesting antiplasmodial properties were also isolated and 
identified. Some of these compounds constituted new scaffolds for the synthesis 
of promising antimalarial drugs. Interestingly, most of these extracts and 
compounds possessed high selective activity against Plasmodium parasites 
compared to mammalian cells. The efficacy and safety of several plant-derived 
products was confirmed in mice, and a good correlation was observed between in 
vitro and in vivo antimalarial activity. The formulation of several 
plant-derived products also led to some clinical trials and license of three 
plant-derived drugs (Manalaria(®), Nsansiphos(®), and Quinine Pharmakina(®)).
CONCLUSION: The obtained results partly justify and support the use of various 
medicinal plants to treat malaria in folk medicine in the Democratic Republic of 
Congo. Antimalarial plants used in Congolese traditional medicine represent an 
important source for the discovery and development of new antimalarial agents. 
However, in order to ensure the integration of a larger number of plant-derived 
products in the Congolese healthcare system, some parameters and trends should 
be considered in further researches, in agreement with the objectives of the 
"Traditional Medicine Strategy" proposed by the World Health Organization in 
2013. These include evaluation of geographical and seasonal variation, 
investigation of reproductive biology, assessment of prophylactic antimalarial 
activity, evaluation of natural products as adjuvant antioxidant therapy for 
malaria, development of plant-based combination therapies and monitoring of 
herbal medicines in pharmacovigilance systems.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2015.03.075
PMID: 25862959 [Indexed for MEDLINE]61. Molecules. 2023 Nov 7;28(22):7460. doi: 10.3390/molecules28227460.

Isochlorogenic Acid Glucosides from the Arabian Medicinal Plant Artemisia 
sieberi and Their Antimicrobial Activities.

Jamal K(1), Al-Taweel A(2), Bukhari SI(3), Orfali R(2), Moubayed NMS(4), 
Al-Qahtani J(2), Aati H(2), Taglialatela-Scafati O(5), Peng J(6), Perveen S(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacognosy, College of Clinical Pharmacy, Baha University, 
P.O. Box 26553, Taif 3442, Saudi Arabia.
(2)Department of Pharmacognosy, College of Pharmacy, King Saud University, P.O. 
Box 22452, Riyadh 11495, Saudi Arabia.
(3)Department of Pharmaceutics, College of Pharmacy, King Saud University, P.O. 
Box 22452, Riyadh 11495, Saudi Arabia.
(4)Department of Botany and Microbiology, College of Science, King Saud 
University, P.O. Box 22452, Riyadh 11495, Saudi Arabia.
(5)Department of Pharmacy, School of Medicine and Surgery, University of Naples 
Federico II, Via Montesano 49, 80131 Naples, Italy.
(6)Department of Chemistry, School of Computer, Mathematical and Natural 
Sciences, Morgan State University, Baltimore, MD 21251, USA.

A phytochemical investigation of the stems of the Arabian plant Artemisia 
sieberi afforded three new isochlorogenic acid derivatives, namely 
isochlorogenic acid A-3'-O-β-glucopyranoside (1), isochlorogenic acid 
A-3'-O-β-glucopyranoside methyl ester (2), and isochlorogenic acid 
C-3'-O-β-glucopyranoside (3), obtained along with thirteen known secondary 
metabolites belonging to distinct structural classes. The structures of the new 
metabolites were elucidated by modern spectroscopic techniues based on 
high-resolution mass spectrometry (HR-ESIMS) and 1D/2D nuclear magnetic 
resonance (NMR). All isolated compounds were tested for their potential 
antimicrobial activity against four different bacterial strains (Bacillus 
subtilis, Staphylococcus aureus, Escherichia coli, and Pseudomonas aeruginosa), 
in addition to a fungal strain (Candida tropicalis), The results were expressed 
as the diameter of the clear zone (in millimetres) around each well. Compounds 1 
and 3 (isochlorogenic acid A-3'-O-β-glucopyranoside and isochlorogenic acid 
C-3'-O-β-glucopyranoside, respectively) displayed remarkable antifungal effect 
and potent antibacterial activities against B. subtilis and S. aureus, 
respectively. 3α,4α-10β-trihydroxy-8α-acetyloxyguaian-12,6α-olide (6) and 
angelicoidenol 2-O-β-d-glucopyranoside (9) emerged as interesting dual 
antibacterial (selective on P. aeruginosa)/antifungal agents.

DOI: 10.3390/molecules28227460
PMCID: PMC10673327
PMID: 38005182 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.