[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: Lerderderg Gorge | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Lerderderg Gorge — Overview

in the Lerderderg Gorge. Their most notable engineering was the diversion of the Lerderderg River at Tunnel Bend, cut 25 m through solid rock, in order to extract alluvial gold in the large meander of the original river bed. Chinese miners reworked ground others had left and cleaned the river to bedrock. Remains of water races, stone walls and mining spoils can also still be seen. Vegetation 

The vegetation of the Gorge follows the pattern of increasing rainfall from south to north, with the dry eucalypt forests of stringybark and box near the mouth of the gorge, and box-ironbark along ridges, progressing to taller, damper Messmate (Eucalyptus obliqua) and Peppermint Gum (Eucalyptus radiata and Eucalyptus dives) forests at the north. By the riverbank are Eucalyptus ignorabilis and Manna Gums, while in the understorey Gahnia microstachya, Lepidosperma tortuosum and Persoonia juniperina are uncommon elsewhere in western Victoria, and a range of grevilleas, wattles and hakeas cover the gully steeps and sometimes impede passage along the river banks and bed. Fauna 
Eastern Grey Kangaroos, Swamp Wallabies, and Echidnas are also about during the day, and occasionally Koalas are seen in the Manna gums. Platypus may be present but are rarely sighted. The Greater Glider,  Mountain Brushtail Possum, Bent wing Bat and Powerful Owl are active at night. Tiger, Red-bellied Black and Brown snakes may be encountered, but more common are skinks, and the fast-moving Jacky Dragons (Amphibolurus muricatus) and Mountain Dragons (Rankinia diemensis). Fish species include the tiny Mountain Galaxias, River Blackfish, whose scarcity was noted as early as 1906, and Estuary perch that all survive regular droughts and low summer flows in waterholes. Introduced European perch and Common carp are well established. The Gorge and the nearby Brisbane Ranges are the most westerly range of the Rocky River Frog. Birdwatching is a rewarding activity; between 1893 and 1899 the Brittlebank brothers observed birds west of Melbourne, recording many from the Lerderderg Gorge, their greatest contribution to local ornithological knowledge being a paper on the birds of Myniong published in The Victorian Naturalist which listed every bird species which Charles and Thomas had recorded in the district, 158 species in total, including birds now declining, threatened or rare; the Gang-gang Cockatoo, Regent Honeyeater, and Letter-winged kite; and other birds found in the Gorge including the White-naped Honeyeater, White-throated Treecreeper, Crimson Rosella,  Square-tailed kite, Rainbow lorikeet, Spangled drongo, Cicadabird, Hooded Robin. Black-faced Monarch, White-browed and Grey-crowned Babbler and Dollarbird. Frequently seen are the Sulphur-crested Cockatoo which nests in the gorge and feeds in surrounding grasslands. Wedge-tailed Eagles inhabit tall trees in the steep gulleys. Significance
The Lerderderg Gorge is one of the major river valleys of Victoria

See also
Lerderderg River 
Lerderderg State Park 
Lerderderg River diversion tunnel

References

External links
 Parks Victoria Access and Activities information for Lerderderg Gorge

Landforms of Victoria (state)
Bacchus Marsh
Canyons and gorges of Australia
State parks of Victoria (state)
Geology of Australia
Gold mining in Australia
Fauna of Australia
River valleys of Australia
Watercourses