[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: magnetic resonance spectroscopy metabolite brain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: magnetic resonance spectroscopy metabolite brain]

98. Cereb Cortex. 2013 Dec;23(12):2944-55. doi: 10.1093/cercor/bhs283. Epub 2012
Sep  5.

Metabolic maturation of the human brain from birth through adolescence: insights 
from in vivo magnetic resonance spectroscopy.

Blüml S(1), Wisnowski JL, Nelson MD Jr, Paquette L, Gilles FH, Kinney HC, 
Panigrahy A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology.

Between birth and late adolescence, the human brain undergoes exponential 
maturational changes. Using in vivo magnetic resonance spectroscopy, we 
determined the developmental profile for 6 metabolites in 5 distinct brain 
regions based on spectra from 309 children from 0 to 18 years of age. The 
concentrations of N-acetyl-aspartate (an indicator for adult-type neurons and 
axons), creatine (energy metabolite), and glutamate (excitatory 
neurotransmitter) increased rapidly between birth and 3 months, a period of 
rapid axonal growth and synapse formation. Myo-inositol, implicated in cell 
signaling and a precursor of membrane phospholipid, as well as an osmolyte and 
astrocyte marker, declined rapidly during this period. Choline, a membrane 
metabolite and indicator for de novo myelin and cell membrane synthesis, peaked 
from birth until approximately 3 months, and then declined gradually, reaching a 
plateau at early childhood. Similarly, taurine, involved in neuronal 
excitability, synaptic potentiation, and osmoregulation, was high until 
approximately 3 months and thereafter declined. These data indicate that the 
first 3 months of postnatal life are a critical period of rapid metabolic 
changes in the development of the human brain. This study of the developmental 
profiles of the major brain metabolites provides essential baseline information 
for future analyses of the pediatric health and disease.

DOI: 10.1093/cercor/bhs283
PMCID: PMC3888212
PMID: 22952278 [Indexed for MEDLINE]