[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: curcumin anti-inflammatory clinical trial randomiz | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: curcumin anti-inflammatory clinical trial randomized]

16. Phytother Res. 2024 Dec;38(12):6048-6061. doi: 10.1002/ptr.8340. Epub 2024
Oct  31.

Curcumin on Human Health: A Comprehensive Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis of 
103 Randomized Controlled Trials.

Jafari A(1)(2), Abbastabar M(3), Alaghi A(2)(4), Heshmati J(5), Crowe FL(6), 
Sepidarkish M(7)(8).

Author information:
(1)Student Research Committee, Department of Community Nutrition, Faculty of 
Nutrition Sciences and Food Technology, National Nutrition and Food Technology 
Research Institute, Shahid Beheshti University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, 
Iran.
(2)Systematic Review and Meta-analysis Expert Group (SRMEG), Universal 
Scientific Education and Research Network (USERN), Tehran, Iran.
(3)Department of Clinical Biochemistry, School of Medicine, Babol University of 
Medical Sciences, Babol, Iran.
(4)Student Research Committee, Golestan University of Medical Sciences, Gorgan, 
Iran.
(5)University of Ottawa Heart Institute, University of Ottawa, Ottawa, Canada.
(6)Institute of Applied Health Research, University of Birmingham, Birmingham, 
UK.
(7)Cellular and Molecular Biology Research Center, Babol University of Medical 
Sciences, Babol, Iran.
(8)Department of Biostatistics and Epidemiology, School of Public Health, Babol 
University of Medical Sciences, Babol, Iran.

The aim of this meta-analysis was to determine the effect of curcumin on a range 
of health outcomes. PubMed, EMBASE, Scopus, and Web of Science were searched 
from inception until September 2023. Randomized clinical trials (RCTs) that 
compared the effect of Curcuma longa L. with placebo were considered eligible. 
The risk of bias and overall certainty of evidence were assessed using the 
Newcastle-Ottawa Scale and Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development, 
and Evaluation (GRADE), respectively. We meta-analyzed the effect sizes across 
eligible studies using the random-effects model. In total, 103 RCTs on 42 
outcomes were included, incorporating a total population of 7216 participants. 
Overall, 23 out of 42 (55%) outcomes reported statistically significant effect 
sizes. The credibility of the evidence was rated as high for fasting blood sugar 
(FBS), C-reactive protein (CRP), high-density lipoprotein (HDL), and weight. The 
remaining outcomes presented moderate (waist circumference [WC], hip 
circumference [HC], body mass index [BMI], insulin, Homeostatic Model Assessment 
for Insulin Resistance [HOMA-IR], quantitative insulin-sensitivity check index 
[QUICKI], leptin, gamma-glutamyl transferase [GGT], glutathione [GSH], and 
superoxide dismutase [SOD]), low (14 outcomes), or very low (14 outcomes) 
evidence. In conclusion, curcumin supplementation can modify FBS and some 
glycemic indices, lipid parameters, as well as inflammatory and oxidative 
parameters. This updated summary of the accumulated evidence may help inform 
clinicians and future guidelines regarding medical and scientific interest in 
curcumin. However, due to limitations in the methodological quality of the 
included studies, well-designed and long-term RCTs with large sample sizes are 
needed. Trial registration: PROSPERO: CRD42021251969.

© 2024 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/ptr.8340
PMID: 39478418 [Indexed for MEDLINE]