[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: ethnobotany traditional medicine biological activi | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: ethnobotany traditional medicine biological activity]

25. J Ethnopharmacol. 2018 Oct 5;224:177-194. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2018.05.034.
Epub  2018 May 26.

Trichosanthis Fructus: botany, traditional uses, phytochemistry and 
pharmacology.

Yu X(1), Tang L(1), Wu H(1), Zhang X(1), Luo H(1), Guo R(1), Xu M(1), Yang H(1), 
Fan J(2), Wang Z(3), Su R(4).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Chinese Materia Medica, China Academy of Chinese Medical 
Science, Beijing 100700, China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Generic Manufacture Technology of Chinese Traditional 
Medicine, Shandong 276006, China.
(3)Institute of Chinese Materia Medica, China Academy of Chinese Medical 
Science, Beijing 100700, China. Electronic address: wangzhuju@sina.com.
(4)State Key Laboratory of Generic Manufacture Technology of Chinese Traditional 
Medicine, Shandong 276006, China. Electronic address: suruiqiangsd@163.com.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Trichosanthis Fructus (ripe fruits of 
Trichosanthes kirilowii Maxim. and Trichosanthes rosthornii Harms) is an 
essential traditional Chinese medicine to treat thoracic obstruction, angina, 
cardiac failure, myocardial infarction, pulmonary heart disease, some cerebral 
ischaemic diseases, etc. The present report reviews the advancements in research 
on the botany, traditional uses, phytochemistry and pharmacology of 
Trichosanthis Fructus. Finally, perspectives on future research and its possible 
directions are discussed.
AIM OF THE STUDY: This review provides up-to-date information about the botany, 
traditional uses, phytochemistry, pharmacology, toxicity and quality control of 
Trichosanthis Fructus and discusses the perspectives on future research and 
possible directions of this traditional Chinese Medicine and its origin plants.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The information on Trichosanthes kirilowii Maxim. and 
Trichosanthes rosthornii Harms was collected from published scientific 
materials, including books; monographs on medicinal plants; pharmacopoeia and 
electronic databases such as SCI finder, PubMed, Web of Science, ACS, Science 
Direct, Wiley, Springer, Taylor, CNKI and Google Scholar.
RESULTS: Approximately 162 compounds, including terpenoids, phytosterols, 
flavonoids, nitrogenous compounds and lignans, have been isolated and identified 
from Trichosanthes kirilowii Maxim. and Trichosanthes rosthornii Harms. Numerous 
studies have shown that the extracts and compounds isolated from these two 
plants exhibit pharmacological activities, including protection against 
myocardial ischaemia, calcium antagonist, endothelial cell protection, 
anti-hypoxic, anti-platelet aggregation, expectorant, anti-inflammatory, 
cytotoxic and antioxidant.
CONCLUSIONS: Trichosanthis Fructus is an essential traditional Chinese medicine 
with pharmacological activities that mainly affect the cardiovascular system. 
This review summarises its botany, traditional uses, phytochemistry and 
pharmacology. Future research is needed to clarify the different uses of the 
seeds, pericarps and fruits. Quality control of investigations of the fruits 
should be improved, and the potential uses of the flesh, leaves and twigs should 
be further explored.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2018.05.034
PMID: 29842965 [Indexed for MEDLINE]