[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: photodynamic therapy cancer clinical trial | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: photodynamic therapy cancer clinical trial]

37. Photodiagnosis Photodyn Ther. 2016 Dec;16:106-109. doi: 
10.1016/j.pdpdt.2016.09.009. Epub 2016 Oct 17.

5-Aminolevulinic acid in intraoperative photodynamic therapy of bladder cancer 
(results of multicenter trial).

Filonenko EV(1), Kaprin AD(2), Alekseev BY(3), Apolikhin OI(4), Slovokhodov 
EK(5), Ivanova-Radkevich VI(6), Urlova AN(2).

Author information:
(1)P.A. Herzen Moscow Cancer Research Institute-the Branch of National Medical 
Research Radiological Centre of the Ministry of Health of the Russian 
Federation, Moscow, Russia; The State Education Institution of Higher 
Professional Training, the First Sechenov Moscow State Medical University Under 
Ministry of Health of the Russian Federation, Moscow, Russia. Electronic 
address: derkul23@yandex.ru.
(2)P.A. Herzen Moscow Cancer Research Institute-the Branch of National Medical 
Research Radiological Centre of the Ministry of Health of the Russian 
Federation, Moscow, Russia.
(3)P.A. Herzen Moscow Cancer Research Institute-the Branch of National Medical 
Research Radiological Centre of the Ministry of Health of the Russian 
Federation, Moscow, Russia; Research Institute of Urology, Moscow, Russia.
(4)Research Institute of Urology, Moscow, Russia.
(5)City Clinical hospital #40, Moscow, Russia.
(6)Peoples' Friendship University of Russia, Moscow, Russia.

The results of multicenter prospective trial for efficacy of combined modality 
treatment: transurethral resection (TUR)+photodynamic therapy (PDT) with alasens 
for bladder cancer are represented in the article. Trials were organized by 
Research Institute of Organic Intermediates and Dyes and conducted according to 
clinical protocol approved by Ministry of Health of Russia, at the sites of 
leading Russian cancer clinical centers. The trial included 45 subjects with 
verified diagnosis of non-muscle-invasive bladder cancer. Patients underwent TUR 
of bladder with simultaneous PDT as anti-relapse treatment. Alasens was 
administered to patients as intravesicular instillation of 3% solution in volume 
of 50ml with 1.5-2h exposure (prior to TUR). TUR was performed after 
instillation. PDT session was conducted immediately after the completion of TUR 
on a single occasion by means of combined local irradiation on tumor bed with 
diffuse irradiation on whole urinary bladder mucosa (light dose of local 
irradiation - 100J/cm2, diffuse irradiation - 20J/cm2). Good tolerance of the 
treatment was noticed, there were no complications. Among 45 patients included 
in the trial, 35 (78%) completed 12 month protocol follow-up without relapse. In 
our study PDT with alasens after TUR reported a recurrence rate of 
non-muscle-invasive bladder cancer for 1st year after treatment of 22%. TUR with 
intraoperative PDT with 5-aminolevulinic acid may offer an alternative in the 
treatment of non-muscle-invasive intermediate and high-risk bladder cancer.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pdpdt.2016.09.009
PMID: 27671517 [Indexed for MEDLINE]