[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: photodynamic therapy cancer clinical trial | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: photodynamic therapy cancer clinical trial]

10. Lancet Oncol. 2000 Dec;1:212-9. doi: 10.1016/s1470-2045(00)00166-2.

Photodynamic therapy: a clinical reality in the treatment of cancer.

Hopper C(1).

Author information:
(1)Maxillofacial Unit, University College London Hospitals NHS Trust, Eastman 
Dental Institute, UK. c.hopper@ucl.ac.uk

Photodynamic therapy (PDT) is a minimally invasive treatment with great promise 
in malignant disease. It can be applied before, or after, chemotherapy, ionising 
radiation, or surgery, without compromising these treatments or being 
compromised itself. Unlike radiotherapy and surgery, it can be repeated many 
times at the same site. Response rates and the durability of response with PDT 
are as good as, or better than, those with standard locoregional treatments. 
Furthermore, there is less morbidity and better functional and cosmetic outcome. 
PDT is valuable for premalignant conditions such as mucosal dysplasia and 
carcinoma-in-situ. The excellent cosmetic outcome makes it valuable for skin 
lesions and for lesions of the head, neck, and oral cavity, where another 
advantage is that it has negligible effects on underlying functional structures. 
With endoscopic delivery of light to hollow structures, PDT has been successful 
in the treatment of early gastrointestinal cancers, such as oesophageal cancer, 
and lung cancer. The superficial effects of PDT can be exploited in the 
treatment of large areas such as the pleura and peritoneum, where curative 
radiation doses cannot be tolerated by underlying normal tissue. PDT is an ideal 
adjuvant therapy when surgical resection of solid tumours might leave behind 
residual microscopic disease. Interstitial light delivery, where light is fed 
directly into solid tumours, allows PDT to be used for large, buried tumours 
that would otherwise require extensive surgical resection.

DOI: 10.1016/s1470-2045(00)00166-2
PMID: 11905638 [Indexed for MEDLINE]