[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: cannabis cannabidiol therapeutic epilepsy pain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: cannabis cannabidiol therapeutic epilepsy pain]

36. Adv Exp Med Biol. 2021;1264:29-45. doi: 10.1007/978-3-030-57369-0_3.

Neuropharmacological Effects of the Main Phytocannabinoids: A Narrative Review.

Dos Santos RG(1)(2), Hallak JEC(1)(2), Crippa JAS(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosciences and Behavior, Ribeirão Preto Medical School, 
University of São Paulo, Ribeirão Preto, Brazil.
(2)National Institute of Science and Technology-Translational Medicine, Ribeirão 
Preto, São Paulo, Brazil.
(3)Department of Neurosciences and Behavior, Ribeirão Preto Medical School, 
University of São Paulo, Ribeirão Preto, Brazil. jcrippa@fmrp.usp.br.
(4)National Institute of Science and Technology-Translational Medicine, Ribeirão 
Preto, São Paulo, Brazil. jcrippa@fmrp.usp.br.

Cannabis can synthetize more than 400 compounds, including terpenes, flavonoids, 
and more than 100 phytocannabinoids. The main phytocannabinoids are 
Δ-9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and cannabidiol (CBD). Cannabis-based products 
are used as medicines in several countries. In this text, we present an overview 
of the main neurochemical mechanisms of action of the phytocannabinoids, 
especially THC and CBD. We also reviewed the indications and adverse effects of 
the main cannabis-based medicinal products. THC acts as a partial agonist at 
cannabinoid 1/2 receptors (CB1/2). It is responsible for the characteristic 
effects of cannabis, such as euphoria, relaxation, and changes in perceptions. 
THC can also produce dysphoria, anxiety, and psychotic symptoms. THC is used 
therapeutically in nausea and vomiting due to chemotherapy, as an appetite 
stimulant, and in chronic pain. CBD acts as a noncompetitive negative allosteric 
modulator of the CB1 receptor, as an inverse agonist of the CB2 receptor, and as 
an inhibitor of the reuptake of the endocannabinoid anandamide. Moreover, CBD 
also activates 5-HT1A serotonergic receptors and vanilloid receptors. Its use in 
treatment-resistant epilepsy syndromes is approved in some countries. CBD does 
not produce the typical effects associated with THC and has anxiolytic and 
antipsychotic effects. Some of the most common adverse effects of CBD are 
diarrhea, somnolence, nausea, and transaminase elevations (with concomitant use 
of antiepileptics). The mechanisms of action involved in both the therapeutic 
and adverse effects of the phytocannabinoids are not fully understood, involving 
not only the endocannabinoid system. This "promiscuous" pharmacology could be 
responsible for their wide therapeutic spectrum.

DOI: 10.1007/978-3-030-57369-0_3
PMID: 33332002 [Indexed for MEDLINE]