[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: crystal structure protein drug target binding | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: crystal structure protein drug target binding]

10. J Chem Inf Model. 2021 Jul 26;61(7):3708-3721. doi: 10.1021/acs.jcim.1c00639.
 Epub 2021 Jul 1.

Prediction of the Drug-Target Binding Kinetics for Flexible Proteins by 
Comparative Binding Energy Analysis.

Nunes-Alves A(1)(2), Ormersbach F(1), Wade RC(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Heidelberg Institute for Theoretical Studies (HITS), Schloß-Wolfsbrunnenweg 
35, 69118 Heidelberg, Germany.
(2)Center for Molecular Biology (ZMBH), DKFZ-ZMBH Alliance, Heidelberg 
University, Im Neuenheimer Feld 282, 69120 Heidelberg, Germany.
(3)Interdisciplinary Center for Scientific Computing (IWR), Heidelberg 
University, Im Neuenheimer Feld 205, 69120 Heidelberg, Germany.

There is growing consensus that the optimization of the kinetic parameters for 
drug-protein binding leads to improved drug efficacy. Therefore, computational 
methods have been developed to predict kinetic rates and to derive quantitative 
structure-kinetic relationships (QSKRs). Many of these methods are based on 
crystal structures of ligand-protein complexes. However, a drawback is that each 
ligand-protein complex is usually treated as having a single structure. Here, we 
present a modification of COMparative BINding Energy (COMBINE) analysis, which 
uses the structures of ligand-protein complexes to predict binding parameters. 
We introduce the option of using multiple structures to describe each 
ligand-protein complex in COMBINE analysis and apply this to study the effects 
of protein flexibility on the derivation of dissociation rate constants (koff) 
for inhibitors of p38 mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase, which has a 
flexible binding site. Multiple structures were obtained for each ligand-protein 
complex by performing docking to an ensemble of protein configurations obtained 
from molecular dynamics simulations. Coefficients to scale ligand-protein 
interaction energies determined from energy-minimized structures of 
ligand-protein complexes were obtained by partial least squares regression, and 
they allowed for the computation of koff values. The QSKR model obtained using 
single, energy-minimized crystal structures for each ligand-protein complex had 
higher predictive power than the QSKR model obtained with multiple structures 
from ensemble docking. However, incorporation of ligand-protein flexibility 
helped to highlight additional ligand-protein interactions that lead to longer 
residence times, such as interactions with residues Arg67 and Asp168, which are 
close to the ligand in many crystal structures. These results show that COMBINE 
analysis is a promising method to guide the design of compounds that bind to 
flexible proteins with improved binding kinetics.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.jcim.1c00639
PMID: 34197096 [Indexed for MEDLINE]