[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: Culpeper's Complete Herbal — Nicholas Culpeper | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Culpeper's Complete Herbal — Nicholas Culpeper — Overview

I am safe.” Presently he peeped out. He wanted to see if Butcher was watching outside. He was just in time to see Butcher's gray and black and white coat disappearing among the trees. Butcher was not foolish enough to waste time watching for Whitefoot to come out. Whitefoot sighed happily. For the first time since he had started on his dreadful journey he felt safe. Nothing else mattered. He was hungry, but he didn't mind that. He
was willing to go hungry for the sake of being safe. Whitefoot watched until Butcher was out of sight. Then he turned to
see what that house was like. Right away he discovered that there was a
soft, warm bed in it. It was made of leaves, grass, moss, and the lining
of bark. It was a very fine bed indeed. “My, my, my, but I am lucky,” said Whitefoot to himself. “I wonder who
could have made this fine bed. I certainly shall sleep comfortably here. Goodness knows, I need a rest. If I can find food enough near here, I'll
make this my home. I couldn't ask for a better one.”

Chuckling happily, Whitefoot began to pull away the top of that bed so
as to get to the middle of it. And then he got a surprise. It was an
unpleasant surprise. It was a most unpleasant surprise. There was some
one in that bed! Yes, sir, there was some one curled up in a little
round ball in the middle of that fine bed. It was some one with a coat
of the softest, finest fur. Can you guess who it was? It was Timmy the
Flying Squirrel. It seemed to Whitefoot as if his heart flopped right over. You see at
first he didn't recognize Timmy. Whitefoot is himself so very timid that
his thought was to run; to get out of there as quickly as possible. But
he had no place to run to, so he hesitated. Never in all his life had
Whitefoot had a greater disappointment. He knew now that this splendid
house was not for him. Timmy the Flying Squirrel didn't move. He remained curled up in a soft
little ball. He was asleep. Whitefoot remembered that Timmy sleeps
during the day and seldom comes out until the Black Shadows come
creeping out from the Purple Hills at the close of day. Whitefoot felt
easier in his mind then. Timmy was so sound asleep that he knew nothing
of his visitor. And so Whitefoot felt safe in staying long enough to get
rested. Then he would go out and hunt for another home. So down in the middle of that soft, warm bed Timmy the Flying Squirrel,
curled up in a little round ball with his flat tail wrapped around him,
slept peacefully, and on top of that soft bed Whitefoot the Wood Mouse
rested and wondered what he should do next. Not in all the Green Forest
could two more timid little people be found than the two in that old
home of Drummer the Woodpecker. CHAPTER XIX: Whitefoot Finds A Home At Last

   True independence he has known
   Whose home has been his very own. --Whitefoot. Curled up in his splendid warm bed, Timmy the Flying Squirrel slept
peacefully. He didn't know he had a visitor. He didn't know that on top
of that same bed lay Whitefoot the Wood Mouse. Whitefoot wasn't asleep. No, indeed! Whitefoot was too worried to sleep. He knew he couldn't stay
in that fine house because it belonged to Timmy. He knew that as soon as
Timmy awoke, he, Whitefoot, would have to get out. Where should he go? He wished he knew. How he did long for the old home he had left. But
when he thought of that, he remembered Shadow the Weasel. It was better
to be homeless than to feel that at any minute Shadow the Weasel might
appear. It was getting late in the afternoon. Before long, jolly, round, red Mr. Sun would go to bed behind the Purple Hills, and the Black Shadows would
come creeping through the Green Forest. Then Timmy the Flying Squirrel
would awake. “It won't do for me to be here then,” said Whitefoot to
himself. “I must find some other place before he wakes. If only I knew
this part of the Green Forest I might know where to go. As it is, I
shall have to go hunt for a new home and trust to luck. Did ever a poor
little Mouse have so much trouble?”

After awhile Whitefoot felt rested and peeped out of the doorway. No
enemy was to be seen anywhere. Whitefoot crept out and climbed a little
higher up in the tree. Presently he found another hole. He peeped inside
and listened long and carefully. He didn't intend to make the mistake of
going into another house where some one might be living. At last, sure that there was no one in there, he crept in. Then he made
a discovery. There were beech nuts in there and there were seeds. It was a storehouse! Whitefoot knew at once that it must be Timmy's
storehouse. Right away he realized how very, very hungry he was. Of
course, he had no right to any of those seeds or nuts. Certainly not! That is, he wouldn't have had any right had he been a boy or girl. But
it is the law of the Green Forest that whatever any one finds he may
help himself to if he can. So Whitefoot began to fill his empty little stomach with some of those
seeds. He ate and ate and ate and quite forgot all his troubles.