[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: Self-aligned gate | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Self-aligned gate — Overview

oxide are etched where the transistors are to be formed. Each well defines the source, drain, and active gate regions of an MOS transistor. 2. Using a dry thermal oxidation process, a thin layer (5-200 nm) of gate oxide (SiO2) is grown on the silicon wafer. 3. Using a chemical vapor deposition (CVD) process, a layer of polysilicon is grown on top of the gate oxide. 4. A layer of photoresist is applied on top of the polysilicon. 5. A mask is placed on top of the photoresist and exposed to UV light; this breaks down the photoresist layer in areas where the mask didn't protect it. 6. Photoresist is exposed with a specialized developer solution. This is intended to remove the photoresist that was broken down by the UV light. 7. The polysilicon and gate oxide that is not covered by photoresist is etched away with a buffered ion etch process. This is usually an acid solution containing hydrofluoric acid. 8. The rest of the photoresist is stripped from the silicon wafer. There is now a wafer with polysilicon over the gate oxide, and over the field oxide. 9. The thin oxide is etched away exposing the source and drain regions of the transistor, except in the gate region which is protected by the polysilicon gate. 10. Using a conventional doping process, or a process called ion-implantation, the source, drain and the polysilicon are doped. The thin oxide under the silicon gate acts as a mask for the doping process. This step is what makes the gate self-aligning. The source and drain regions are automatically properly aligned with the (already in place) gate. 11. The wafer is annealed in a high temperature furnace (>). This diffuses the dopant further into the crystal structure to make the source and drain regions and results in the dopant diffusing slightly underneath the gate. 12. The process continues with vapor deposition of silicon dioxide to protect the exposed areas, and with all the remaining steps to complete the process. See also
Semiconductor device fabrication
Microfabrication

Notes

References

1966 introductions
Italian inventions
MOSFETs
Transistor types