[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: biomaterial implant osseointegration titanium clin | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: biomaterial implant osseointegration titanium clinical]

90. J Biomed Mater Res A. 2024 Sep;112(9):1424-1435. doi: 10.1002/jbm.a.37691.
Epub  2024 Mar 11.

In vitro and in vivo evaluation of the osseointegration capacity of a 
polycarbonate-urethane zirconium-oxide composite material for application in a 
focal knee resurfacing implant.

van Hugten PPW(1)(2), Jeuken RM(1)(2), Asik EE(3)(4), Oevering H(5), Welting 
TJM(1), van Donkelaar CC(3), Thies JC(5), Emans PJ(1)(2)(4), Roth AK(1)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopedic Surgery, Research School CAPHRI, Maastricht 
University, Maastricht, The Netherlands.
(2)Department of Orthopedic Surgery, Joint Preservation Clinic, Maastricht 
University Medical Center, Maastricht, The Netherlands.
(3)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Orthopaedic Biomechanics, Eindhoven 
University of Technology, Eindhoven, The Netherlands.
(4)Avalanche Medical BV, Maastricht, The Netherlands.
(5)DSM Biomedical, Geleen, The Netherlands.

Currently available focal knee resurfacing implants (FKRIs) are fully or 
partially composed of metals, which show a large disparity in elastic modulus 
relative to bone and cartilage tissue. Although titanium is known for its 
excellent osseointegration, the application in FKRIs can lead to potential 
stress-shielding and metal implants can cause degeneration of the opposing 
articulating cartilage due to the high resulting contact stresses. Furthermore, 
metal implants do not allow for follow-up using magnetic resonance imaging 
(MRI).To overcome the drawbacks of using metal based FKRIs, a biomimetic and MRI 
compatible bi-layered non-resorbable thermoplastic polycarbonate-urethane 
(PCU)-based FKRI was developed. The objective of this preclinical study was to 
evaluate the mechanical properties, biocompatibility and osteoconduction of a 
novel Bionate® 75D - zirconium oxide (B75D-ZrO2) composite material in vitro and 
the osseointegration of a B75D-ZrO2 composite stem PCU implant in a caprine 
animal model. The tensile strength and elastic modulus of the B75D-ZrO2 
composite were characterized through in vitro mechanical tests under ambient and 
physiological conditions. In vitro biocompatibility and osteoconductivity were 
evaluated by exposing human mesenchymal stem cells to the B75D-ZrO2 composite 
and culturing the cells under osteogenic conditions. Cell activity and 
mineralization were assessed and compared to Bionate® 75D (B75D) and titanium 
disks. The in vivo osseointegration of implants containing a B75D-ZrO2 stem was 
compared to implants with a B75D stem and titanium stem in a caprine large 
animal model. After a follow-up of 6 months, bone histomorphometry was performed 
to assess the bone-to-implant contact area (BIC). Mechanical testing showed that 
the B75D-ZrO2 composite material possesses an elastic modulus in the range of 
the elastic modulus reported for trabecular bone. The B75D-ZrO2 composite 
material facilitated cell mediated mineralization to a comparable extent as 
titanium. A significantly higher bone-to-implant contact (BIC) score was 
observed in the B75D-ZrO2 implants compared to the B75D implants. The BIC of 
B75D-ZrO2 implants was not significantly different compared to titanium 
implants. A biocompatible B75D-ZrO2 composite approximating the elastic modulus 
of trabecular bone was developed by compounding B75D with zirconium oxide. In 
vivo evaluation showed an significant increase of osseointegration for B75D-ZrO2 
composite stem implants compared to B75D polymer stem PCU implants. The 
osseointegration of B75D-ZrO2 composite stem PCU implants was not significantly 
different in comparison to analogous titanium stem metal implants.

© 2024 The Authors. Journal of Biomedical Materials Research Part A published by 
Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/jbm.a.37691
PMID: 38465895 [Indexed for MEDLINE]