[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: herbal medicine drug interaction pharmacokinetics | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: herbal medicine drug interaction pharmacokinetics]

85. Basic Clin Pharmacol Toxicol. 2018 Mar;122(3):331-340. doi:
10.1111/bcpt.12914.  Epub 2017 Oct 25.

Prediction of Drug-Drug Interaction between Tacrolimus and Principal Ingredients 
of Wuzhi Capsule in Chinese Healthy Volunteers Using Physiologically-Based 
Pharmacokinetic Modelling.

Zhang H(1), Bu F(1), Li L(1), Jiao Z(2), Ma G(1), Cai W(1), Zhuang X(3), Lin 
HS(4), Shin JG(5), Xiang X(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Pharmacy and Drug Administration, School of Pharmacy, 
Fudan University, Shanghai, China.
(2)Department of Pharmacy, Huashan Hospital, Fudan University, Shanghai, China.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Toxicology and Medical Countermeasures, Beijing 
Institute of Pharmacology and Toxicology, Beijing, China.
(4)Department of Pharmacy, National University of Singapore, Singapore, 
Singapore.
(5)Department of Pharmacology and Clinical Pharmacology, Inje University College 
of Medicine, Busan, South Korea.

Schisantherin A and schisandrin A, the most abundant active ingredients of Wuzhi 
capsule, are known to inhibit tacrolimus metabolism by inhibiting CYP3A4/5. We 
aimed to predict the contribution of schisantherin A and schisandrin A to 
drug-drug interaction (DDI) between Wuzhi capsule and tacrolimus using 
physiologically-based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) modelling. Firstly, the inhibition 
mechanism of schisantherin A and schisandrin A on CYP3A4/5 was investigated. 
Thereafter, PBPK models of schisantherin A, schisandrin A and tacrolimus were 
established. Finally, tacrolimus pharmacokinetics were evaluated after the 
combined use with schisantherin A or schisandrin A. The blood area under the 
curve (AUC) of tacrolimus increased 1.77- and 2.61-fold after a single dose and 
multiple doses of schisantherin A, respectively. Meanwhile, schisandrin A 
inhibited tacrolimus metabolism to a smaller extent. Also, it showed that 
mechanism-based inhibition (MBI) played a more important role in DDI than 
reversible inhibition after long-term administration, while reversible 
inhibition was comparable to MBI after single-dose administration. In 
conclusion, we utilized PBPK modelling to quantify the contribution of 
schisantherin A and schisandrin A to DDI between tacrolimus and Wuzhi capsule. 
This may provide more insights for the rational use of this drug combination.

© 2017 Nordic Association for the Publication of BCPT (former Nordic 
Pharmacological Society).

DOI: 10.1111/bcpt.12914
PMID: 28945011 [Indexed for MEDLINE]