[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: curcumin anti-inflammatory clinical trial randomiz | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: curcumin anti-inflammatory clinical trial randomized]

22. Physiol Rep. 2023 Jul;11(13):e15763. doi: 10.14814/phy2.15763.

Effect of curcumin on inflammatory biomarkers and iron profile in patients with 
premenstrual syndrome and dysmenorrhea: A randomized controlled trial.

Talebpour A(1)(2), Mohammadifard M(3), Zare Feyzabadi R(4), Mahmoudzadeh S(5), 
Rezapour H(5), Saharkhiz M(5), Tajik M(2), Ferns GA(6), Bahrami A(7)(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, Cardiovascular Diseases Research Centre, School of 
Medicine, Birjand University of Medical Sciences, Birjand, Iran.
(2)Student Research Committee, Birjand University of Medical Sciences, Birjand, 
Iran.
(3)Infectious Diseases Research Center, Birjand University of Medical Sciences, 
Birjand, Iran.
(4)Metabolic Syndrome Research Center, Mashhad University of Medical Sciences, 
Mashhad, Iran.
(5)Cellular and Molecular Research Center, Birjand University of Medical 
Sciences, Birjand, Iran.
(6)Division of Medical Education, Brighton & Sussex Medical School, Brighton, 
Sussex, UK.
(7)Clinical Research Development Unit of Akbar Hospital, Faculty of Medicine, 
Mashhad University of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran.
(8)Clinical Research Development Unit, Imam Reza Hospital, Faculty of Medicine, 
Mashhad University of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran.

Premenstrual syndrome (PMS) and primary dysmenorrhea are common gynecological 
problems and inflammation may have a role in their etiology. Curcumin is a 
polyphenolic natural product for which there is increasing evidence of 
anti-inflammatory and iron chelation effects. This study assessed the effects of 
curcumin on inflammatory biomarkers and iron profile in young women with PMS and 
dysmenorrhea. A sample of 76 patients was included in this triple-blind, 
placebo-controlled clinical trial. Participants were randomly allocated to 
curcumin (n = 38) and control groups (n = 38). Each participant received one 
capsule (500 mg of curcuminoid+ piperine, or placebo) daily, from 7 days before 
until 3 days after menstruation for three consecutive menstrual cycles. Serum 
iron, ferritin, total iron-binding capacity (TIBC) and high-sensitivity 
C-reactive protein (hsCRP), as well as white blood cell, lymphocyte, neutrophil, 
platelet counts, mean platelet volume (MPV) and red blood cell distribution 
width (RDW), were quantified. Neutrophil: lymphocyte ratio (NLR), platelet: 
lymphocyte ratio (PLR), and RDW: platelet ratio (RPR) were also calculated. 
Curcumin significantly decreased the median (interquartile range) serum levels 
of hsCRP [from 0.30 mg/L (0.0-1.10) to 0.20 mg/L (0.0-1.3); p = 0.041] compared 
with placebo, but did not show any difference for neutrophil, RDW, MPV, NLR, PLR 
and RPR values (p > 0.05). The treatment schedule was well-tolerated, and none 
of markers of iron metabolism statistically changed after the intervention in 
the curcumin group (p > 0.05). Curcumin supplementation may have positive 
effects on serum hsCRP, a marker of inflammation, with no any changes on iron 
homeostasis in healthy women with PMS and dysmenorrhea.

© 2023 The Authors. Physiological Reports published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on 
behalf of The Physiological Society and the American Physiological Society.

DOI: 10.14814/phy2.15763
PMCID: PMC10315327
PMID: 37394650 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflict of interest to 
disclose.