[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: pharmacognosy medicinal plant active compound isol | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: pharmacognosy medicinal plant active compound isolation]

19. Food Res Int. 2018 Jul;109:403-415. doi: 10.1016/j.foodres.2018.03.072. Epub 
2018 Mar 29.

Towards a better understanding of Artemisia vulgaris: Botany, phytochemistry, 
pharmacological and biotechnological potential.

Abiri R(1), Silva ALM(2), de Mesquita LSS(3), de Mesquita JWC(3), Atabaki N(4), 
de Almeida EB Jr(5), Shaharuddin NA(6), Malik S(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Faculty of Biotechnology and Biomolecular 
Sciences, University Putra Malaysia, UPM Serdang, Selangor 43400, Malaysia; 
Young Researchers and Elite Club of IAU, Kermanshah, Iran.
(2)Health Sciences Graduate Program, Biological & Health Sciences Center, 
Federal University of Maranhão, São Luís, MA, Brazil.
(3)Laboratory of Pharmacognosy, Department of Pharmacy, Federal University of 
Maranhão, São Luís, MA, Brazil.
(4)IAU of Tehran Science and Research Branch, Tehran, Iran.
(5)Health Sciences Graduate Program, Biological & Health Sciences Center, 
Federal University of Maranhão, São Luís, MA, Brazil; Laboratory of Botanical 
Studies, Department of Biology, Biological and Health Sciences Center, Federal 
University of Maranhão, São Luís, MA, Brazil.
(6)Department of Biochemistry, Faculty of Biotechnology and Biomolecular 
Sciences, University Putra Malaysia, UPM Serdang, Selangor 43400, Malaysia.
(7)Health Sciences Graduate Program, Biological & Health Sciences Center, 
Federal University of Maranhão, São Luís, MA, Brazil. Electronic address: 
777soniamalik@gmail.com.

Artemisia vulgaris is one of the important medicinal plant species of the genus 
Artemisia, which is usually known for its volatile oils. The genus Artemisia has 
become the subject of great interest due to its chemical and biological 
diversity as well as the discovery and isolation of promising anti-malarial drug 
artemisinin. A. vulgaris has a long history in treatment of human ailments by 
medicinal plants in various parts of the world. This medicinal plant possesses a 
broad spectrum of therapeutic properties including: anti-malarial, 
anti-inflammatory, anti-hypertensive, anti-oxidant, anti-tumoral, 
immunomodulatory, hepatoprotective, anti-spasmodic and anti-septic. These 
activities are mainly attributed to the presence of various classes of secondary 
metabolites, including flavonoids, sesquiterpene lactones, coumarins, 
acetylenes, phenolic acids, organic acids, mono- and sesquiterpenes. Studies 
related to A. vulgaris morphology, anatomy and phytochemistry has gained a 
significant interest for better understanding of production and accumulation of 
therapeutic compounds in this species. Recently, phytochemical and 
pharmacological investigations have corroborated the therapeutic potential of 
bioactive compounds of A. vulgaris. These findings provided further evidence for 
gaining deeper insight into the identification and isolation of novel compounds, 
which act as alternative sources of anti-malarial drugs in a cost-effective 
manner. Considering the rising demand and various medical applications of A. 
vulgaris, this review highlights the recent reports on the chemistry, biological 
activities and biotechnological interventions for controlled and continuous 
production of bioactive compounds from this plant species.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.foodres.2018.03.072
PMID: 29803465 [Indexed for MEDLINE]