[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: cannabis cannabidiol therapeutic epilepsy pain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: cannabis cannabidiol therapeutic epilepsy pain]

80. Pharmaceuticals (Basel). 2026 Feb 17;19(2):330. doi: 10.3390/ph19020330.

Cannabidiol in Neurology: Current Insights and Translational Perspectives.

Białoń M(1), Kędziora M(1), Starowicz K(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurochemistry, Maj Institute of Pharmacology, Polish Academy 
of Sciences, 31-343 Cracow, Poland.

Cannabidiol (CBD) is one of the most studied compounds of Cannabis sativa and 
has attracted significant interest due to its therapeutic and beneficial 
properties, which have been confirmed in numerous preclinical and clinical 
studies over the last few years. A great advantage of CBD over the other widely 
known Cannabis sativa ingredient, Δ-9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), is that CBD 
does not exert intoxicating and psychoactive effects, making it an attractive 
candidate for therapeutic applications in neurological disorders. CBD has been 
shown to exert antioxidant, analgesic, anti-inflammatory, and neuroprotective 
effects, with therapeutic potential for various neurological conditions. To 
date, the only drug that consists solely of highly purified CBD is Epidiolex, 
which is used in the management of severe forms of epilepsy such as Dravet 
syndrome and Lennox-Gastaut syndrome. Another legal medication containing CBD 
(albeit with the addition of THC) is Sativex, used to alleviate spasticity in 
multiple sclerosis. Besides epilepsy, preclinical data suggest that CBD alone 
may be potentially beneficial in treating chronic pain, multiple sclerosis, 
Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases, or stroke. The safety profile of CBD is 
generally considered favorable, as the most commonly reported adverse effects 
are mild (e.g., somnolence, diarrhea). However, much attention should be paid as 
CBD-driven drug-drug interactions have been reported. This review article aims 
to assess the outcomes of preclinical and clinical research on CBD's effects in 
various neurological conditions while also addressing potential risks and 
concerns related to its use.

DOI: 10.3390/ph19020330
PMCID: PMC12943572
PMID: 41754870

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.