[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: ethnobotany traditional medicine biological activi | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: ethnobotany traditional medicine biological activity]

51. Biomed Pharmacother. 2017 Jul;91:970-998. doi: 10.1016/j.biopha.2017.04.129. 
Epub 2017 May 14.

"Ziziphus oxyphylla": Ethnobotanical, ethnopharmacological and phytochemical 
review.

Ahmad R(1), Ahmad N(2), Naqvi AA(3).

Author information:
(1)Natural Products and Alternative Medicine, College of Clinical Pharmacy, Imam 
Abdulrahman Bin Faisal University, Saudi Arabia. Electronic address: 
rizvistar_36@yahoo.com.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutics, College of Clinical Pharmacy, Imam Abdulrahman 
Bin Faisal University, Saudi Arabia.
(3)Department of Pharmacy Practice, College of Clinical Pharmacy, Imam 
Abdulrahman Bin Faisal University, Saudi Arabia.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Ziziphus oxyphylla (ZO) is distributed mainly in 
tropic and warm temperate regions in the world. Pakistan owns six (06) 
indigenous species of genus Ziziphus out of which ZO is widely used for 
traditional treatment of different ailments such as diabetes, jaundice and liver 
diseases.
AIM OF THE STUDY: The present review aims to provide in-depth and comprehensive 
literature overview, regarding botanical, chemical and biological 
characteristics of the plant alongwith phytochemical isolation and mechanistic 
studies to support its folklore and traditional uses.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The literature search and relevant information were 
collected through authentic resources using data bases such as Google Scholar, 
PubMed, Web of Science, Scopus and Science Direct, peer reviewed articles, books 
and thesis.
RESULTS AND DISCUSSION: The phytochemical characterization as well as color 
tests confirmed the presence of diverse chemical groups presents in the plant 
such as alkaloids, flavonoids, phenolic compounds and tannins. In-vivo and 
in-vitro pharmacological activities for the crude extracts and its fractions 
revealed potent antinociceptive, anti-inflammatory, antipyretic, antioxidant, 
antibacterial as well as acetyl choline esterase and lipoxygenase inhibitory 
activity. Majority of the isolated compounds belonged to class of Cyclopeptide 
alkaloids for which the genus is already very famous. Compounds from alkaloids 
and flavonoids chemical class were isolated and evaluated with a role as 
antioxidant, antidiabetic, anti-glycation and advanced glycation end products 
inhibitors. No toxicity was observed during cytotoxicity (MRC-5 cell lines), 
insecticidal and brine shrimp lethality studies.
CONCLUSION: The review article supports the folklore uses of this plant in the 
aforementioned diseases. The plant due to its diverse biological nature may be 
further studied for mechanistic studies, its anticancer effects as well as its 
potency and toxicity studies for safe use in human beings.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biopha.2017.04.129
PMID: 28521385 [Indexed for MEDLINE]