[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: low-level laser therapy wound healing pain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: low-level laser therapy wound healing pain]

47. Photochem Photobiol. 2025 Jul-Aug;101(4):913-924. doi: 10.1111/php.14053.
Epub  2025 Jan 20.

Photobiomodulation therapy in diabetes: Benefits for pain relief, quality of 
life, and wound healing.

da Silva Oliveira VR(1), de Paula Oliveira I(1), Alonso-Matielo H(1), Oliveira 
VT(1), Kremer JL(1), Casalverini MCD(2), Ribeiro FQ(2), Maria-Engler SS(3), 
Assis SR(3), Teixeira MJ(4), Lotfi CFP(1), Otoch JP(5), Dale CS(1)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anatomy, Institute of Biomedical Sciences, University of São 
Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil.
(2)Universitary Hospital, University of São Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil.
(3)Department of Clinical Chemistry & Toxicology, School of Pharmaceutical 
Sciences, University of São Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil.
(4)Department of Neurology, Faculty of Medicine, University of São Paulo, São 
Paulo, Brazil.
(5)Department of Surgical Techniques, Faculty of Medicine, University of São 
Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil.

Globally, 537 million people suffer from diabetes mellitus (DM), a condition 
often associated with sensory disturbances, wound development, and chronic pain, 
which significantly affects the quality of life and imposes a substantial 
economic burden. This study evaluated the effects of photobiomodulation (PBM) 
therapy on nociceptive and sensory changes in diabetic patients to understand 
pain manifestations and explore PBM's molecular mechanisms on wound healing. 
Twenty patients with type 2 DM underwent clinical assessments, completed pain 
and quality of life questionnaires, and had their pain sensitivity evaluated 
using the quantitative sensory test (QST). A 5 mm skin biopsy was taken for 
fibroblast culture. PBM therapy, using 660 nm red light, was administered twice 
weekly for 7 weeks on lower limb wounds. Results indicated that DM patients 
faced significant sensory impairments, impacting their quality of life. PBM 
therapy improved pain scores, alleviated neuropathic pain, and enhanced sensory 
function, leading to better quality of life and reduced anxiety and depression. 
It also accelerated wound healing, enhancing mobility and autonomy. In vitro 
studies showed PBM therapy increased cell proliferation through the ERK 
signaling pathway and modulation of matrix metalloproteinases (MMP-1/8 and 2) 
and tissue inhibitors of metalloproteinases (TIMP).

© 2025 American Society for Photobiology.

DOI: 10.1111/php.14053
PMID: 39829285 [Indexed for MEDLINE]