[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Complex Circuit Systems | Topic: Design and Performance Analysis of 4-bit Nano-processor Desi | Type: OpenAlex-OA | Level: Graduate]

[OpenAlex | Circuit Engineering | Year: 2021 | Citations: 2]

Title: Design and Performance Analysis of 4-bit Nano-processor Design for Low Area, Low Power and Minimum Delay Using 32nm FinFET Technology

Abstract:
The recent technologies in VLSI Chips have grown in terms of scaling of transistor and device parameters but still, there is challenging task for controlling current between the source and drain terminals. For effective control of device current, the FinFET transistors have come into VLSI chip, through which current can be controlled effectively. This paper is to address the issues present in CMOS technology and majorly concentrated on the proposed 4-bit Nano processor using FinFET 32nm technology by using the Cadence Virtuoso software tool. In the proposed Nano processor, the first part is to design using 4bit ALU which includes all basic and universal gates, efficient and high-speed adder, multiplier, and multiplexer. The Carry Save Adder (CSA) and multiplier are the major subcomponents which can optimize the power consumption and area reduction. The second part of the proposed Nano processor is 4-bit 6T SRAM and Encoder and decoder and also Artificial Neural Network (ANN). All these subcomponents are designed at analog transistors (Schematic level) through which the Graphic Data System (GDS-II) is generated through mask layout design. Finally, the verification and validation are done using DRC and LVS, at the last chip-level circuit is generated for chip fabrication. The ALU is designed by using CMOS inverters and the designed ALU schematic is simulated through 32nm FinFET technological library and compared with CMOS technology which is simulated through 32nm CMOS library (without FinFET). The power consumption of AND, OR, XOR, NOT, NAND gates, SRAM, Encoder, Decoder and ANN are 36.09nW, 64.970nW, 61.13nW, 33.31nW, 37.45nW, 32.5% optimization in power dissipation and 47% optimization in leakage current, 2.68uW, 1.98uW and 7.5% improvement in power consumption and 0.5% information loses compressed subsequently respectively. The basic gates and universal gates, CSA, subtraction, and MUX are integrated for 4-bit ALU design, and its delay, power consumption, and area are 0.104nsec, 314.4uW, and 56.8usqm respectively