[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: graphene biomedical applications toxicity review | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: graphene biomedical applications toxicity review]

47. Biomater Sci. 2023 Oct 10;11(20):6687-6710. doi: 10.1039/d3bm01114c.

Graphene- and MXene-based materials for neuroscience: diagnostic and therapeutic 
applications.

Zarepour A(1), Karasu Ç(2), Mir Y(3), Nematollahi MH(3), Iravani S(4), Zarrabi 
A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Faculty of Engineering and Natural 
Sciences, Istinye University, 34396 Istanbul, Turkey. alizarrabi@gmail.com.
(2)Cellular Stress Response and Signal Transduction Research Laboratory, 
Department of Medical Pharmacology, Faculty of Medicine, Gazi University, 06500 
Ankara, Turkey.
(3)Applied Cellular and Molecular Research Center, Kerman University of Medical 
Sciences, Kerman, Iran. mh.nematollahi@yahoo.com.
(4)Faculty of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical Sciences, Isfahan University of 
Medical Sciences, 81746-73461, Isfahan, Iran. siavashira@gmail.com.

MXenes and graphene are two-dimensional materials that have gained increasing 
attention in neuroscience, particularly in sensing, theranostics, and biomedical 
engineering. Various composites of graphene and MXenes with fascinating thermal, 
optical, magnetic, mechanical, and electrical properties have been introduced to 
develop advanced nanosystems for diagnostic and therapeutic applications, as 
exemplified in the case of biosensors for neurotransmitter detection. These 
biosensors display high sensitivity, selectivity, and stability, making them 
promising tools for neuroscience research. MXenes have been employed to create 
high-resolution neural interfaces for neuroelectronic devices, develop 
neuro-receptor-mediated synapse devices, and stimulate the electrophysiological 
maturation of neural circuits. On the other hand, graphene/derivatives exhibit 
therapeutic applicability in neuroscience, as exemplified in the case of 
graphene oxide for targeted delivery of therapeutic agents to the brain. While 
MXenes and graphene have potential benefits in neuroscience, there are also 
challenges/limitations associated with their use, such as toxicity, 
environmental impacts, and limited understanding of their properties. In 
addition, large-scale production and commercialization as well as optimization 
of reaction/synthesis conditions and clinical translation studies are very 
important aspects. Thus, it is important to consider the use of these materials 
in neuroscience research and conduct further research to obtain an in-depth 
understanding of their properties and potential applications. By addressing 
issues related to biocompatibility, long-term stability, targeted delivery, 
electrical interfaces, scalability, and cost-effectiveness, MXenes and graphene 
have the potential to greatly advance the field of neuroscience and pave the way 
for innovative diagnostic and therapeutic approaches for neurological disorders. 
Herein, recent advances in therapeutic and diagnostic applications of graphene- 
and MXene-based materials in neuroscience are discussed, focusing on important 
challenges and future prospects.

DOI: 10.1039/d3bm01114c
PMID: 37646462 [Indexed for MEDLINE]