[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: Florida Legislative Investigation Committee | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Florida Legislative Investigation Committee — Overview

Legislature authorized the placement in the Florida State Archives of a photocopied set of the records, with all individuals' names blacked out except those of the committee's members, staff, and public officials. The redacted records are available for public review at the archives in Tallahassee. They were used in researching the book Queering the Redneck Riviera. Sexuality and the Origins of Florida Tourism, published in 2018. Aftermath
Although his committee folded when the Legislature withdrew funding, Johns remained proud of his work:

In a 1972 interview, Charley Johns said he saw the committee as a way to stamp out homosexuality. He said he was particularly disturbed by the number of homosexuals at U.F. "I don't get no love out of hurting people. But that situation in Gainesville, my Lord have mercy. I never saw nothing like it in my life. If we saved one boy from being made homosexual, it was justified."

Victims of the witch-hunt felt differently, however. When interviewed in 2000 for the documentary Behind Closed Doors, Art Coppleston said:

I moved on to a successful and somewhat normal life as a gay man. …But, never far in the background, has lurked the shadow of Investigator Tileston and the gnawing feeling that what I am, the very essence of my being, is somehow wrong. Bad. Sinful. Unworthy. I will probably never rid myself of those feelings. But time, and the new knowledge that others know about what went on in Florida some 40 years ago, makes those feelings a lot easier to bear. The Florida Legislative Investigation Committee has been called Florida's version of McCarthyism, and a Florida version of the House Un-American Activities Committee. Resolution of apology
State Representative Evan Jenne and State Senator Lauren Book in 2019 introduced a resolution with "a formal and heartfelt apology". The resolution has not yet passed, and they do not expect immediate approval. Documentary films
In 2000, University of Florida student Allyson A. Beutke produced a half-hour documentary on the workings of the Johns Committee, Behind Closed Doors, as her master's thesis in mass communication. The film aired on PBS stations in Florida and was shown at the Tampa International Gay and Lesbian Film Festival as part of the "In Our Backyards: Florida Filmmakers" screening in October 2001. The documentary was also screened at the Florida Film Festival in Orlando during June 2002. It also aired on The Education Channel in Tampa as part of the Independents' Film Festival in July 2002. The film earned a Louis Wolfson II Media History Center Film and Video Award. In 2011, a class of students at the University of Central Florida produced a film that continued work done by Beutke and others, entitled The Committee. It chronicles the legacy of FLIC and Charley Johns, and interviews some of the same figures from Behind Closed Doors. The documentary was nominated for two Suncoast Emmys for 2014 and was awarded an Emmy for Best Historical Documentary for 2014. See also
 Cocking affair
 Homosexuality and Citizenship in Florida
 Lavender scare, with links to other articles about investigations of homosexuals around the country in this period
 LGBT rights in Florida
 Mississippi State Sovereignty Commission

References

Further reading
The following printed sources are held by the University of Florida library, and may be available at other libraries as well; see the library's listing, with call numbers, at Race, Ethnicity, and Politics in Florida. "Before the Florida Legislative Investigation Committee…" Transcript of testimony, Thursday, February 9, 1961. Tallahassee, Florida, The Legislature, 1961. One of the Johns Committee's publications. Schnur, James A. Cold Warriors in the Hot Sunshine: The Johns Committee's Assault on Civil Liberties in Florida, 1956–1965. M.A. thesis, University of South Florida, 1995. Johns has published two articles, cited below, using information from his thesis. Stark, Bonnie. McCarthyism in Florida: Charley Johns and the Florida Legislative Investigation Committee, July, 1956 to July 1965. Thesis, University of South Florida, 1985. Wright, Devon A. The Florida Legislative Investigation Committee and its Conflict with the Miami Chapter of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People. Thesis, Florida International University, 2002. Other printed or online sources discussing the activities of the Johns Committee:

 
 Braukman, Stacy. Communists and Perverts under the Palms: The Johns Committee in Florida, 1956-1965.] Gainesville: University Press of Florida, 2012. Elkins, Charles L. "From Plantation to Corporation: The Attack on Tenure and Academic Freedom in Florida," Sociological Perspectives, Vol. 41, No. 4, 1998, pp. 757–65. Eskridge, William N., Jr. " Privacy Jurisprudence and the Apartheid of the Closet," Florida State University Law Review, Vol. 24, No. 4, Summer 1997, pp. 703–888. Schnur, James A. "Closet Crusaders: The Johns Committee and Homophobia, 1956-1965," Carryin' on in the Lesbian and Gay South, John Howard, ed.