[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: laser surgery LASIK corneal refractive outcome | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: laser surgery LASIK corneal refractive outcome]

96. Ophthalmology. 2001 Jun;108(6):1082-7. doi: 10.1016/s0161-6420(01)00587-5.

Laser in situ keratomileusis-induced (presumed) neurotrophic epitheliopathy.

Wilson SE(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington 
98195, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate tear production, corneal topography, accuracy of 
refractive correction, and best spectacle-corrected visual acuity in eyes that 
had moderate to severe rose bengal staining develop on the flap compared with 
eyes with little or no staining on the flap, the first few months after laser in 
situ keratomileusis (LASIK). None of the eyes in this study had significant 
preoperative dry eye disease.
DESIGN: Retrospective case control study.
PARTICIPANTS: Individual eyes of 19 consecutive patients with moderate to severe 
punctate epithelial erosions and rose bengal staining on the flap 1 to 3 months 
after LASIK were compared with eyes of 19 concurrent patients who did not have 
punctate epithelial erosions or more than trace staining on the flap develop.
METHODS: Nonparametric statistical analyses were used to compare tear secretion, 
corneal topographic irregularity, spherical equivalent, and visual acuity 3 and 
6 months after surgery. Some eyes in both groups also had analysis of tear 
secretion 1 month after surgery.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Schirmer's test without anesthesia, the topographic 
corneal irregularity measurement (CIM), the difference between attempted and 
achieved spherical equivalent, and the loss of best spectacle-corrected visual 
acuity.
RESULTS: There was no difference in tear production 1, 3, or 6 months after 
LASIK in patients who had punctate epithelial erosions and rose bengal staining 
on the flap develop and those who did not. There was no significant difference 
in the CIM or mean accuracy of the refractive correction in the two groups, but 
some patients had a transient decrease in best spectacle-corrected visual 
acuity. Flap rose bengal staining resolved by 6 months after LASIK in most 
affected patients.
CONCLUSIONS: LASIK-induced rose bengal staining in patients without preexisting 
dry eye is likely neurotrophic epitheliopathy, because there is no difference in 
mean tear production between patients who have significant punctate epithelial 
erosions and rose bengal staining develop on the flap and those who do not. The 
signs and symptoms of LASIK-induced (presumed) neurotrophic epitheliopathy tend 
to resolve approximately 6 months after surgery. This disorder tends to be more 
common and severe in patients with pre-existing dry eye disease.

DOI: 10.1016/s0161-6420(01)00587-5
PMID: 11382633 [Indexed for MEDLINE]