[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: Culpeper's Complete Herbal — Nicholas Culpeper | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Culpeper's Complete Herbal — Nicholas Culpeper — Overview

I don't find one of his houses somewhere in it, but I wish I hadn't got to climb it to find out. Well, here goes.” He looked anxiously this way. He looked anxiously that way. He looked anxiously the other way. In fact, he looked anxiously every way. But he saw no one and nothing to be afraid of, and so he started up the tree. He was half-way up when, glancing down, he saw a shadow moving across
the snow. Once more Whitefoot's heart seemed to jump right up in his
throat. That shadow was the shadow of some one flying. There couldn't be
the least bit of doubt about it. Whitefoot flattened himself against the
side of the tree and peeked around it. He was just in time to see a gray
and black and white bird almost the size of Sammy Jay alight in the very
next tree. He had come along near the ground and then risen sharply into
the tree. His bill was black, and there was just a tiny hook on the end
of it. Whitefoot knew who it was. It was Butcher the Shrike. Whitefoot
shivered. CHAPTER XVII: Whitefoot Finds A Hole Just In Time

   Just in time, not just too late,
   Will make you master of your fate. --Whitefoot. Whitefoot, half-way up that dead tree, flattened himself against the
trunk and, with his heart going pit-a-pat, pit-a-pat with fright, peered
around the tree at an enemy he had not seen for so long that he had
quite forgotten there was such a one. It was Butcher the Shrike. Often
he is called just Butcher Bird. He did not look at all terrible. He was
not quite as big as Sammy Jay. He had no terrible claws like the Hawks
and Owls. There was a tiny hook at the end of his black bill, but it
wasn't big enough to look very dreadful. But you can not always judge a
person by looks, and Whitefoot knew that Butcher was one to be feared. So his heart went pit-a-pat, pit-a-pat as he wondered if Butcher had
seen him. He didn't have to wait long to find out. Butcher flew to a
tree back of Whitefoot and then straight at him. Whitefoot dodged around
to the other side of the tree. Then began a dreadful game. At least,
it was dreadful to Whitefoot. This way and that way around the trunk of
that tree he dodged, while Butcher did his best to catch him. Whitefoot would not have minded this so much, had he not been so tired,
and had he known of a hiding-place close at hand. But he was tired, very
tired, for you remember he had had what was a very long and terrible
journey to him. He had felt almost too tired to climb that tree in the
first place to see if it had any holes in it higher up. Now he didn't
know whether to keep on going up or to go down. Two or three times he
dodged around the tree without doing either. Then he decided to go up. Now Butcher was enjoying this game of dodge. If he should catch
Whitefoot, he would have a good dinner. If he didn't catch Whitefoot, he
would simply go hungry a little longer. So you see, there was a very big
difference in the feelings of Whitefoot and Butcher. Whitefoot had his
life to lose, while Butcher had only a dinner to lose. Dodging this way and dodging that way, Whitefoot climbed higher and
higher. Twice he whisked around that tree trunk barely in time. All the
time he was growing more and more tired, and more and more discouraged. Supposing he should find no hole in that tree! “There must be one. There must be one,” he kept saying over and over to
himself, to keep his courage up. “I can't keep dodging much longer. If
I don't find a hole pretty soon, Butcher will surely catch me. Oh, dear! Oh, dear!”

Just above Whitefoot was a broken branch. Only the stub of it remained. The next time he dodged around the trunk he found himself just below
that stub. Oh, joy! There, close under that stub, was a round hole. Whitefoot didn't hesitate a second. He didn't wait to find out whether
or not any one was in that hole. He didn't even think that there might
be some one in there. With a tiny little squeak of relief he darted in. He was just in time. He was just in the nick of time. Butcher struck at
him and just missed him as he disappeared in that hole. Whitefoot had
saved his life and Butcher had missed a dinner. CHAPTER XVIII: An Unpleasant Surprise

   Be careful never to be rude
   Enough to thoughtlessly intrude. --Whitefoot. If ever anybody in the Great World felt relief and thankfulness, it was
Whitefoot when he dodged into that hole in the dead tree just as Butcher
the Shrike all but caught him. For a few minutes he did nothing but
pant, for he was quite out of breath. “I was right,” he said over and over to himself, “I was right. I was
sure there must be a hole in this tree. It is one of the old houses of
Drummer the Woodpecker. Now I am safe.”

Presently he peeped out. He wanted to see if Butcher was watching
outside. He was just in time to see Butcher's gray and black and white
coat disappearing among the trees. Butcher was not foolish enough to
waste time watching for Whitefoot to come out. Whitefoot sighed happily. For the first time since he had started on his dreadful journey he felt
safe.