[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: phytotherapy systematic review clinical evidence | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: phytotherapy systematic review clinical evidence]

6. Wound Repair Regen. 2019 Sep;27(5):548-561. doi: 10.1111/wrr.12737. Epub 2019 
Jun 20.

A systematic review of Calendula officinalis extract for wound healing.

Givol O(1)(2), Kornhaber R(2)(3), Visentin D(3), Cleary M(3), Haik 
J(1)(2)(3)(4)(5), Harats M(1)(2)(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Sackler School of Medicine, Tel Aviv University, Tel Aviv, Israel.
(2)Department of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery, Sheba Medical Center, Tel 
Hashomer, Israel.
(3)College of Health and Medicine, University of Tasmania, Sydney, New South 
Wales, Australia.
(4)University of Notre Dame Australia, Fremantle, Western Australia, Australia.
(5)Talpiot Leadership Program, Sheba Medical Center, Tel Hashomer, Israel.

Use of complementary and alternative medicine for wound healing is influencing 
mainstream medical practice. This systematic review evaluates the role of 
Calendula officinalis flower extract as monotherapy compared to control for 
wound healing in vivo. Searches were conducted in PubMed, EMBASE, Cochrane 
Central Register of Controlled Trials, CINAHL, and Scopus (up to April 2018) 
with 14 studies meeting the inclusion criteria, comprising 7 animal experiments 
and 7 clinical trials. Findings from the review on acute wound healing showed 
faster resolution of the inflammation phase with increased production of 
granulation tissue in the test groups treated with extract. These findings were 
consistent in five animal studies and one randomized clinical trial. Chronic 
wound healing studies were varied. Two clinical control studies on venous ulcers 
demonstrated decreased ulcer surface area compared to controls. Another 
randomized clinical trial demonstrated no improvement for the calendula group in 
diabetic leg ulcer healing. Burn healing similarly showed mixed results. Two 
animal studies demonstrated a prophylactic effect for the administration of 
calendula extract prior to burn injury. A randomized clinical trial of patients 
suffering from partial to full thickness burns demonstrated no benefit for 
topical application of calendula extract compared to controls. Two randomized 
clinical trials assessed the potential for extract to prevent acute post 
radiation dermatitis, with one study showing improvements compared to trolamine, 
while the other found no improvement compared to aqua gel cream. Animal studies 
provide moderate evidence for improved recovery from the inflammation phase and 
increased production of granulation tissue in calendula extract treatment 
groups. This review identified some evidence for the beneficial effects of C. 
officinalis extract for wound healing, consistent with its role in traditional 
medicine. There is a need for larger, well-designed randomized control trials to 
assess the effect of calendula on wound healing including complications.

© 2019 by the Wound Healing Society.

DOI: 10.1111/wrr.12737
PMID: 31145533 [Indexed for MEDLINE]