[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: ethnobotany traditional medicine biological activi | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: ethnobotany traditional medicine biological activity]

10. J Ethnopharmacol. 2012 Oct 11;143(3):755-71. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2012.08.013. 
Epub 2012 Aug 21.

Devil's Claw-a review of the ethnobotany, phytochemistry and biological activity 
of Harpagophytum procumbens.

Mncwangi N(1), Chen W, Vermaak I, Viljoen AM, Gericke N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Faculty of Science, Tshwane University 
of Technology, Private Bag X680, Pretoria 0001, South Africa.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Harpagophytum procumbens subps. procumbens 
(Burch.) DC. ex Meisn. (Pedaliaceae) is an important traditional medicine 
growing in the Kalahari region of southern Africa where it is consumed as a 
general health tonic and for treating diverse ailments including arthritis, 
pain, fever, ulcers and boils.
AIM OF THE REVIEW: To provide a comprehensive overview of the ethnobotany, 
phytochemistry and biological activity of H. procumbens and possibly make 
recommendations for further research.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Peer-reviewed articles on H. procumbens were acquired on 
Scopus, ScienceDirect and SciFinder, there was no specific timeline set for the 
search. A focus group discussion was held with different communities in Botswana 
to further understand ethnobotanical uses of the plant.
RESULTS: Harpogophytum procumbens is used for a wide variety of health 
conditions in the form of infusions, decoctions, tinctures, powders and 
extracts. In addition to the common local use for arthritis and pain, other 
ethnomedicinal uses include dyspepsia, fever, blood diseases, urinary tract 
infections, postpartum pain, sprains, sores, ulcers and boils. Scientific 
studies revealed that H. procumbens exhibits analgesic, anti-oxidant, 
anti-diabetic, anti-epileptic, antimicrobial and antimalarial activities amongst 
others. Iridoid glycosides and phenylpropanoid glycosides have been the focus of 
phytochemical investigations as the biological activity has been ascribed to the 
iridoid glycosides (such as harpagoside and harpagide), which are common in 
nature and are known to possess anti-inflammatory activity. In addition, it has 
been shown that the hydrolysed products of harpagoside and harpagide have more 
pronounced anti-inflammatory activity when compared to the unhydrolysed 
compounds. Harpagophytum zeyheri is a close taxonomic ally of H. procumbens but 
H. procumbens is the favoured species of commerce, and contains higher levels of 
the pharmacologically active constituents. The two are used interchangeably and 
H. procumbens raw material is often intentionally adulterated with H. zeyheri 
and this may impact on the efficacy of inadequately controlled health products. 
The main exporter of this highly commercialised plant is Namibia. In 2009 alone, 
Harpagophytum exports were worth approximately €1.06 million. The high demand 
for health products based on this plant has led to over-harvesting, raising 
concerns about sustainability. Although only the secondary tubers are utilised 
commercially, the whole plant is often destroyed during harvesting.
CONCLUSIONS: Harpagophytum procumbens is used to treat a wide range of ailments. 
Some of the ethnobotanical claims have been confirmed through in vitro studies, 
however, when the constituents deemed to be the biologically active compounds 
were isolated the efficacy was lower than that of the whole extract. This 
necessitates the use of a different approach where all the metabolites are 
considered using a robust method such as spectroscopy; the phytochemical data 
can then be superimposed on the biological activity. Furthermore, there is a 
need to develop rapid and efficient quality control methods for both raw 
materials and products because the orthodox methods in current use are 
time-consuming and labour intensive.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2012.08.013
PMID: 22940241 [Indexed for MEDLINE]