[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: Presbyterian Ladies' College, Perth | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Presbyterian Ladies' College, Perth — Overview

The Presbyterian Ladies' College (informally known as PLC), is an independent, day and boarding school predominantly for girls, situated in Peppermint Grove, a western suburb of Perth, Western Australia. Established in 1915 by the Presbyterian Church of Australia, PLC came under the control of the Uniting Church in Australia in 1977 following church union. The college moved to the current grounds (an  property) in 1917. PLC's grounds consist of a junior school for years Pre-Kindy to Year 6, a middle school for Years 7 to 9, a senior school for Years 10 to 12, sporting grounds, arts centres and boarding facilities. The school currently caters for approximately 1200 students, with boys and girls enrolled from pre-kindergarten to pre-primary and girls only from Year 1 to Year 12. PLC also provides accommodation for up to 150 boarders in Years 7 to 12. The college has been an IB World School since December 2006, and is authorised to offer the IB Primary Years Programme (PYP) and IB Middle Years Programme and the IB Diploma Programme. PLC is also registered to offer the Western Australian State Curriculum to Years 11 and 12. PLC is affiliated with the Association of Heads of Independent Schools of Australia (AHISA), the Junior School Heads Association of Australia (JSHAA), the Australian Boarding Schools' Association (ABSA), and the Alliance of Girls' Schools Australia (AGSA). History 

On 19 August 1915 Rev George Nisbet Dods, Moderator of the Presbyterian Church in Western Australia, called together a group of Ministers and Church Elders to discuss the proposal of establishing a Presbyterian college for girls, since the Church had already established the Scotch College, Perth for boys. Present at this meeting were Rev Dods, Rev Alexander Crow, Principal Oxer, Rev Daniel Ross, Peter Corsair Anderson (Principal of Scotch College, Perth), John Maxwell Ferguson, Donald John Carmichael, Inspector of Schools James Klein and Professor Alexander David Ross. Ormiston College had been established in 1907 by Miss Constance Wilson and her two sisters in Palmerston Street, North Perth. The newly formed committee agreed to purchase Ormiston College, and the School was named Presbyterian Ladies' College and Kindergarten (Ormiston House). Wilson was taken up on her offer to continue acting as principal until a permanent one was appointed. The successful applicant was Miss Agnes Scorgie MA, a certified teacher from Glasgow University. She had also studied modern language at three European universities, and had taught for twelve years at Glasgow High School. Scorgie arrived in Fremantle on 24 February 1916 and took up her duties immediately. In January 1917 the School's Committee was constituted as the first College Council. After considering several permanent locations for the school, it eventually settled on the purchase of William Gerald Lefroy's property on the corner of View and McNeil Streets, Peppermint Grove. After modifications and additions to the property, all boarders were transferred from North Perth, and the first classes began on the new campus in July. The school was officially opened by the Governor of Western Australia, Sir William Ellison-Macartney, on 11 August 1917. The North Perth campus remained operating as a day school until the end of 1918. Academic performance
The school has traditionally performed well in the Western Australian Certificate of Education examinations and appear regularly among the top 10 schools in the state. House system
As with most Australian schools, PLC utilises a house system through which students participate in Inter-House activities and competitions. The House system was introduced in 1934 by Vera Summers OBE, in her first year as principal, with three houses: Carmichael, Stewart and Ferguson. The colours chosen were those of the new uniform; navy, green and white. McNeil was added in 1943 and further expanded in 1977 with the addition of Summers and Baird. Celebrating the centenary of the school in 2015 a seventh House, Ross, was created. The House was named after Professor Alexander David Ross. Carmichael
Colour: blue. Named for Founder, Past Treasurer and Past Chair of Council Donald John Carmichael. Emblem: Scottish Thistle

Stewart
Colour: green. Named for benefactor and Council member John Stewart. Emblem: Royal Acorn

Ferguson
Colour: red (changed from white in 1957). Named for Founder John Maxwell Ferguson. Emblem: Sunflower

McNeil
Colour: yellow. Named for early local resident, PLC Council member and benefactor Neil McNeil. Emblem: Dryas

Summers
Colour: initially white but changed to purple in 1999. Named for Vera Summers OBE who was on teaching staff from 1920 and Principal from 1934 to 1961. Emblem: White Heather

Baird
Colour: orange. Named for the Baird family from which two past Chairs of Council, one teacher and many students came. Emblem: White Cotton Grass

Ross
Colour: black. Named for Prof Alexander David Ross, who was one of PLC's Founders and served on the School Council for 41 years.