[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: phytotherapy systematic review clinical evidence | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: phytotherapy systematic review clinical evidence]

96. Complement Ther Med. 2011 Aug;19(4):216-27. doi: 10.1016/j.ctim.2011.06.007. 
Epub 2011 Jul 26.

Complementary medicines (herbal and nutritional products) in the treatment of 
Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD): a systematic review of the 
evidence.

Sarris J(1), Kean J, Schweitzer I, Lake J.

Author information:
(1)The University of Melbourne, Department of Psychiatry, Australia. 
jsarris@unimelb.edu.au

OVERVIEW: Complementary and Alternative Medicines (CAMs) are frequently given to 
children and adolescents for reputed benefits in the treatment of hyperkinetic 
and concentration disorders such as Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder 
(ADHD). In such vulnerable populations high quality evidence is required to 
support such claims.
AIMS: The aim of the paper is to assess the current evidence of herbal and 
nutritional interventions for ADHD using a systematic search of clinical trials 
meeting an acceptable standard of evidence.
METHODS: PubMed, PsycINFO, Cochrane Library and CINAHL were searched up to May 
26th, 2011 for randomised, controlled clinical trials using CAM products as 
interventions to treat ADHD. A quality analysis using a purpose-designed scale, 
and an estimation of effect sizes (Cohen's d) where data were available, were 
also calculated.
RESULTS: The review revealed that 16 studies met inclusion criteria, with 
predominant evidentiary support found for zinc, iron, Pinus marinus (French 
maritime pine bark), and a Chinese herbal formula (Ningdong); and mixed (mainly 
inconclusive) evidence for omega-3, and l-acetyl carnitine. Current data suggest 
that Ginkgo biloba (ginkgo), and Hypercium perforatum (St. John's wort) are 
ineffective in treating ADHD.
CONCLUSION: The research suggests only some CAMs may be beneficial in ADHD, thus 
clinicians need to be aware of the current evidence. Promising candidates for 
future research include Bacopa monniera (brahmi) and Piper methysticum (kava), 
providing potential efficacy in improving attentional and hyperkinetic disorders 
via a combination of cognitive enhancing and sedative effects.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ctim.2011.06.007
PMID: 21827936 [Indexed for MEDLINE]