[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: ethnobotany traditional medicine biological activi | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: ethnobotany traditional medicine biological activity]

93. Molecules. 2018 Dec 28;24(1):102. doi: 10.3390/molecules24010102.

Ethnomedicinal, Phytochemical and Pharmacological Investigations of Perilla 
frutescens (L.) Britt.

Ahmed HM(1).

Author information:
(1)Sulaimani Polytechnic University, Slemani 46001, Kurdistan Regional 
Government, Iraq. hiwa2009@yahoo.com.

Perilla frutescens (L.) Britt. (PF) is an annual herbal medicinal, aromatic, 
functional food, and ornamental plant that belongs to the mint family, 
Lamiaceae. The origin of perilla traces back to East Asian countries (China, 
Japan, Korea, Taiwan, Vietnam, and India), where it has been used as a valuable 
source of culinary and traditional medicinal uses. The leaves, seeds, and stems 
of P. frutescens are used for various therapeutic applications in folk medicine. 
In the absence of a comprehensive review regarding all aspects of perilla, this 
review aims to present an overview pertaining to the botanical drug, 
ethnobotany, phytochemistry, and biological activity. It was found that the 
taxonomic classification of perilla species is quite confused, and the number of 
species is vague. Perilla has traditionally been prescribed to treat 
depression-related disease, anxiety, asthma, chest stuffiness, vomiting, coughs, 
colds, flus, phlegm, tumors, allergies, intoxication, fever, headache, stuffy 
nose, constipation, abdominal pain, and indigestion, and acts as an analgesic, 
anti-abortive agent, and a sedative. Until now, 271 natural molecules have been 
identified in perilla organs including phenolic acids, flavonoids, essential 
oils, triterpenes, carotenoids, phytosterols, fatty acids, tocopherols, and 
policosanols. In addition to solvent extracts, these individual compounds 
(rosmarinic acid, perillaldehyde, luteolin, apigenin, tormentic acid, and 
isoegomaketone) have attracted researchers' interest for its pharmacological 
properties. Perilla showed various biological activities such as antioxidant, 
antimicrobial, anti-allergic, antidepressant, anti-inflammatory, anticancer, and 
neuroprotection effects. Although the results are promising in preclinical 
studies (in vitro and in vivo), clinical studies are insufficient; therefore, 
further study needs to be done to validate its therapeutic effects and to ensure 
its safety and efficacy.

DOI: 10.3390/molecules24010102
PMCID: PMC6337106
PMID: 30597896 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The author declares that the research was 
carried out in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that 
could be construed as a potential conflict of interest.