[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: low-level laser therapy wound healing pain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: low-level laser therapy wound healing pain]

2. Semin Cutan Med Surg. 2013 Mar;32(1):41-52.

Low-level laser (light) therapy (LLLT) in skin: stimulating, healing, restoring.

Avci P(1), Gupta A, Sadasivam M, Vecchio D, Pam Z, Pam N, Hamblin MR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, Harvard Medical School, BAR 414 Wellman, Center 
for Photomedicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, 40 Blossom Street, Boston, MA 
02114, USA.

Low-level laser (light) therapy (LLLT) is a fast-growing technology used to 
treat a multitude of conditions that require stimulation of healing, relief of 
pain and inflammation, and restoration of function. Although skin is naturally 
exposed to light more than any other organ, it still responds well to red and 
near-infrared wavelengths. The photons are absorbed by mitochondrial 
chromophores in skin cells. Consequently, electron transport, adenosine 
triphosphate nitric oxide release, blood flow, reactive oxygen species increase, 
and diverse signaling pathways are activated. Stem cells can be activated, 
allowing increased tissue repair and healing. In dermatology, LLLT has 
beneficial effects on wrinkles, acne scars, hypertrophic scars, and healing of 
burns. LLLT can reduce UV damage both as a treatment and as a prophylactic 
measure. In pigmentary disorders such as vitiligo, LLLT can increase 
pigmentation by stimulating melanocyte proliferation and reduce depigmentation 
by inhibiting autoimmunity. Inflammatory diseases such as psoriasis and acne can 
also be managed. The noninvasive nature and almost complete absence of side 
effects encourage further testing in dermatology.

PMCID: PMC4126803
PMID: 24049929 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest Disclosures: The authors 
have completed and submitted the ICMJE Form for Disclosure for Potential 
Conflicts of Interest and none were reported. Dr Gupta has received a grant from 
Boyscast Fellowship, Rolo-11, in India. All other authors have nothing to 
disclose.