[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: nanoparticle drug delivery tumor targeting cancer | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: nanoparticle drug delivery tumor targeting cancer]

42. Curr Drug Discov Technol. 2013 Jun;10(2):170-6. doi: 
10.2174/1570163811310020010.

Treatment of lung cancer using nanoparticle drug delivery systems.

Chandolu V(1), Dass CR.

Author information:
(1)School of Biomedical and Health Sciences, Bldg 6, Victoria University, St 
Albans 3021, Australia.

CONTEXT: One of the leading causes of cancer-associated deaths in most men and 
women in the Western world is lung cancer. There are various types of treatments 
depending on the type and the stage of the cancer. A recent type of therapy is 
targeted gene therapy which aims to target genes that cause lung cancer. 
However, this therapy has some drawbacks including lack of proper vectors for 
delivery. These drawbacks can potentially be overcome by using various types of 
nanoparticles.
OBJECTIVE: To review current literature on the treatment of lung cancer with 
nanoparticles.
METHODS: Researchers have attempted to treat lung cancer with a variety of types 
of nanoparticle matrices including lipid, polylactide-co-glycolide, albumin, 
poly (ω-pentadecalactone-co-butylene-co-succinate), cerium oxide, gold, 
ultra-small superparamagnetic iron oxide nanoparticles, super paramagnetic iron 
oxide, lipid-polycation-DNA, N-[1-(2,3- 
dioleoyloxyl)propyl]-NNN-trimethylammoniummethylsulfate, silica-overcoated 
magnetic cores, and polyethyleneglycol phosphatidylethanolamine. There are 
various ways in which nanoparticles enhance drug delivery, and these include 
encapsulation against immune response, tissue penetration, target selectivity 
and specificity, delivery monitoring, promoting apoptosis, and blocking pathways 
for cancer initiation and progression.
CONCLUSION: In the past decade, a lot has been said about targeting of NPs for 
lung and other cancers, but little has been actually successfully delivered to 
date. Nevertheless, nanoparticles can act as good vectors for delivering drug to 
the target neoplastic lesions within the lung, increase cellular uptake, 
increase tissue penetration and help in tracking the drug. In the future, 
combination therapies may play a key role in the treatment of lung cancer using 
the existing therapies.

DOI: 10.2174/1570163811310020010
PMID: 23363233 [Indexed for MEDLINE]