[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: laser tissue interaction ablation photothermal | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: laser tissue interaction ablation photothermal]

29. J Korean Med Sci. 2019 Nov 18;34(44):e272. doi: 10.3346/jkms.2019.34.e272.

Role of Immunosuppressive Microenvironment in Acquiring Immunotolerance 
Post-Photothermal Therapy.

Cherukula K(1), Park MS(2), Sontyana AG(1), Mathew AP(1), Vijayan V(1), Bae 
WK(3), Park IK(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical Science and BK21 PLUS Centre for Creative Biomedical 
Scientists, Chonnam National University Medical School, Gwangju, Korea.
(2)Department of Hematology-Oncology, Chonnam National University Medical School 
and Hwasun Hospital, Hwasun, Korea.
(3)Department of Hematology-Oncology, Chonnam National University Medical School 
and Hwasun Hospital, Hwasun, Korea. drwookyun@chonnam.ac.kr.
(4)Department of Biomedical Science and BK21 PLUS Centre for Creative Biomedical 
Scientists, Chonnam National University Medical School, Gwangju, Korea. 
pik96@chonnam.ac.kr.

BACKGROUND: Nanoparticle-mediated photothermal therapy (PTT) has been well 
studied as a treatment for cancer. However, the therapeutic outcome of PTT is 
often hindered by the penetration depth of laser light. In the tumor margin 
beyond the laser penetration limit, tumor recurrence often occurs, bypassing the 
immune response of the host. Accumulating evidence suggests the prominent role 
of tumor microenvironment (TME) and its interactions with the immune components 
contribute to an immunosuppressive milieu during the post-therapy period. Here, 
we explored the immunosuppressive cascade generated after PTT, which is 
responsible for tumor recurrence, and identified the potential targets to 
achieve an effective PTT period.
METHODS: Here, we investigated the immunosuppressive cascade generated after PTT 
in a CT26 tumor bearing mouse. The liposomal system loaded with the indocyanine 
green (ICG) was utilized for the generation of PTT with high efficiency. 
Immunological factors such as cytokines and protein expressions post-therapy 
were investigated through enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, flow cytometry and 
western blot analysis.
RESULTS: Our results suggested that PTT with ICG-loaded liposomes (Lipo-ICG) was 
effective for the first 5 days after treatment, resulting in tumor suppression. 
However, an immunosuppressive and pro-inflammatory environment developed 
thereafter, causing the recruitment and upregulation of the immune evasion 
factors of heat shock protein 70, programmed death ligand 1, 
indoleamine-dioxygenase, interleukin-6, transforming growth factor-β, regulatory 
T-cells, and myeloid-derived suppressor cells, to develop immunotolerance.
CONCLUSION: Collectively, these findings have determined potential therapeutic 
targets to modulate the TME during PTT and achieve tumor ablation without 
remission.

© 2019 The Korean Academy of Medical Sciences.

DOI: 10.3346/jkms.2019.34.e272
PMCID: PMC6856303
PMID: 31726492 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no potential conflicts of 
interest to disclose.