[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: herbal medicine drug interaction pharmacokinetics | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: herbal medicine drug interaction pharmacokinetics]

96. J Pharm Biomed Anal. 2024 Aug 1;245:116162. doi: 10.1016/j.jpba.2024.116162. 
Epub 2024 Apr 18.

Pharmacokinetic analysis of antiviral drug ritonavir across the blood-brain 
barrier and its interaction with Scutellaria baicalensis using multisite 
microdialysis in rats.

Sun CK(1), Kung YY(2), Lee WH(1), Lin LC(3), Yang MH(4), Tsai TH(5).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Traditional Medicine, College of Medicine, National Yang Ming 
Chiao Tung University, Taipei 112, Taiwan.
(2)Institute of Traditional Medicine, College of Medicine, National Yang Ming 
Chiao Tung University, Taipei 112, Taiwan; Center for Traditional Medicine, 
Taipei Veterans General Hospital, Taipei 112, Taiwan.
(3)National Research Institute of Chinese Medicine, Ministry of Health and 
Welfare, Taipei 112, Taiwan.
(4)Institute of Clinical Medicine, College of Medicine, National Yang Ming Chiao 
Tung University, Taipei 112, Taiwan.
(5)Institute of Traditional Medicine, College of Medicine, National Yang Ming 
Chiao Tung University, Taipei 112, Taiwan; Graduate Institute of Acupuncture 
Science, China Medical University, Taichung 404, Taiwan; School of Pharmacy, 
Kaohsiung Medical University, Kaohsiung 807, Taiwan; Graduate Institute of Law 
and Interdisciplinary Studies, College of Law, National Chengchi 
University, Taipei 116, Taiwan. Electronic address: thtsai@nycu.edu.tw.

Ritonavir, an excellent inhibitor of CYP3A4, has recently been combined with 
nirmatrelvir to form Paxlovid for the treatment of severe acute respiratory 
syndrome coronavirus 2 infections. The root of Scutellaria baicalensis Georgi 
(S. baicalensis), a traditional Chinese medicinal (TCM) herb commonly used to 
treat heat/inflammation in the lung and digestive tracts, which are major organs 
targeted by viral infections, contains flavones that can influence the CYP3A 
metabolism pathway. To investigate the ability of ritonavir to cross the 
bloodbrain barrier (BBB) and its potential herb-drug interactions with an 
equivalent TCM clinical dose of S. baicalensis, multisite microdialysis coupled 
with an LCMS/MS system was developed using rat model. Pretreatment with S. 
baicalensis extract for 5 days, which contains less flavones than those used in 
previous studies, had a significant influence on ritonavir, resulting in a 
2-fold increase in the total concentration of flavones in the blood and brain. 
Treatment also boosted the maximum blood concentration of flavones by 1.5-fold 
and the maximum brain concentration of flavones by 2-fold, all the while 
exerting no noticeable influence on the transfer ratio across the bloodbrain 
barrier. These experimental results demonstrated that the use of a typical 
traditional Chinese medicinal dose of S. baicalensis is sufficient to influence 
the metabolic pathway and synergistically increase the concentration of 
ritonavir in rats.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpba.2024.116162
PMID: 38678857 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.