[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS neurology | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS neurology]

100. Am J Ther. 2025 May-Jun 01;32(3):e269-e273. doi:
10.1097/MJT.0000000000001974.

Ethical Guidelines for Direct-To-Consumer Promotion of Transcranial Magnetic 
Stimulation.

Constantin DA(1), Cioriceanu IH(1)(2), Rogozea LM(1).

Author information:
(1)Basic, Preventive and Clinical Sciences Department, Transilvania University, 
Brasov, Romania; and.
(2)Clinical Hospital of Psychiatry and Neurology, Brasov, Romania.

BACKGROUND: Medical providers started to consider Transcranial Magnetic 
Stimulation (TMS) for the noninvasive treatment of different psychiatric and 
neurology disorders as this technique become more popular in recent years. Many 
medical providers are trying to reach patients using direct-to-consumer (DTC) 
promotion of approved and off-label indications. Most of the time, these ads 
exaggerate benefits, create unrealistic expectations, and often exaggerate 
benefits. The procedure is expensive, and many insurance companies do not 
reimburse it; some patients may not have access to it. The study examines the 
ethical issues related to DTC promotion of TMS. It proposes clear ethical 
guidelines for transparency, equity, informed consent, data privacy, and 
regulation. These measures aim to encourage responsible marketing practices 
while ensuring the welfare of patients is protected.
AREAS OF UNCERTAINTY: The best practice guide does not include patient autonomy 
and transparency in DTC advertising for TMS. Examining specialist publications, 
regulations, and ethical considerations ensures the structuring of ethical 
guidelines and the responsible promotion of DTC's medical marketing.
DATA SOURCES: A comprehensive literature review was conducted in the PubMed, 
PsycINFO, BMC, and Google Scholar databases from their inception to 2025 using 
keywords related to TMS, regulatory compliance, DTC, marketing ethics, and 
patient impact. Studies that contained information regarding misinformation 
risks, patients' decision making, ethical guidelines in medical advertising, and 
DTC promotion were analyzed.
RESULTS: The analysis of these studies identified key ethical concerns that 
include insufficient regulatory oversight, misleading claims that exaggerate 
benefits and downplay risks, privacy risks in targeted advertising, lack of 
standardized informed consent procedures, and limited access due to high 
treatment costs. Our study proposes ethical guidelines based on the ethical 
concerns identified that medical providers can use to ensure that patients have 
equitable access, transparency, and regulatory accountability.
CONCLUSIONS: Implementing our guidelines will ensure that patients receive 
unbiased information, high-quality care, and equitable access, reinforcing TMS's 
ethical foundation in clinical practice.

Copyright © 2025 Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1097/MJT.0000000000001974
PMID: 40338685 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflicts of interest to 
declare.