[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Complex Circuit Systems | Topic: From Microelectronics to Nanoelectronics: Introducing Nanote | Type: OpenAlex-OA | Level: Graduate]

[OpenAlex | Circuit Engineering | Year: 2020 | Citations: 1]

Title: From Microelectronics to Nanoelectronics: Introducing Nanotechnology to VLSI Curricula

Abstract:
In the past decades, VLSI industries constantly shrank the size of transistors, so that more and more transistors can be built into the same chip area to make VLSI more and more powerful in its functions. As the typical feature size of CMOS VLSI is shrunk into deep submicron domain, nanotechnology is the next step in order to maintain Moore's law for several more decades. Nanotechnology not only further improves the resolution in traditional photolithography process, but also introduces many brand-new fabrication strategies, such as bottom-up molecular self-assembly. Nanotechnology is also enabling many novel devices and circuit architectures which are totally different from current microelectronics circuits, such as quantum computing, nanowire crossbar circuits, spin electronics, etc. Nanotechnology is bringing another technology revolution to traditional CMOS VLSI technology. In order to train students to meet the quickly-increasing industry demand for nextgeneration nanoelectronics engineers, we are making efforts to introduce nanotechnology into our VLSI curricula. We have developed a series of VLSI curricula which include CPE/EE 448D -Introduction to VLSI, EE 548 -Low Power VLSI Circuit Design, EE 458 -Analog VLSI Circuit Design, EE 549 -VLSI Testing, etc. Furthermore, we developed a series of micro and nanotechnology related courses, such as EE 451 -Nanotechnology, EE 448 -Microelectronic Fabrication, EE 446 -MEMS (Microelectromechanical Systems). We introduce nanotechnology into our VLSI curricula, and teach the students about various devices, fabrication processes, circuit architectures, design and simulation skills for future nanotechnology-based nanoelectronic circuits. Some examples are nanowire crossbar circuit architecture, carbon-nanotube based nanotransistor, single-electron transistor, spintronics, quantum computing, bioelectronic circuits, etc. Students show intense interest in these exciting topics. Some students also choose nanoelectronics as the topic for their master project/thesis, and perform successful research in the field. The program has attracted many graduate students into the field of nanoelectronics.