[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: Ultrafast laser spectroscopy | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Ultrafast laser spectroscopy — Overview

techniques are variations on standard pump-probe experiments. Some commonly used techniques are Electron Diffraction imaging, Kerr Gated Microscopy, imaging with ultrafast electron pulses and terahertz imaging. This is particularly true in the biomedical community where safe and non-invasive techniques for diagnosis are always of interest. Terahertz imaging has recently been used to identify areas of decay in tooth enamel and image the layers of the skin. Additionally, it has shown to be able to successfully distinguish a region of breast carcinoma from healthy tissue. Another technique called Serial Time-encoded amplified microscopy has shown to have the capability of even earlier detection of trace amounts of cancer cells in the blood. Other non-biomedical applications include ultrafast imaging around corners or through opaque objects. Femtosecond up-conversion
Femtosecond up-conversion is a pump-probe technique that uses nonlinear optics to combine the fluorescence signal and probe signal to create a signal with a new frequency via photon upconversion, which is subsequently detected. The probe scans through delay times after the pump excites the sample, generating a plot of intensity over time. Applications

Applications of femtosecond spectroscopy to biochemistry
Ultrafast processes are found throughout biology. Until the advent of femtosecond methods, many of the mechanism of such processes were unknown. Examples of these include the cis-trans photoisomerization of the rhodopsin chromophore retinal, excited state and population dynamics of DNA, and the charge transfer processes in photosynthetic reaction centers Charge transfer dynamics in photosynthetic reaction centers has a direct bearing on man’s ability to develop light harvesting technology, while the excited state dynamics of DNA has implications in diseases such as skin cancer. Advances in femtosecond methods are crucial to the understanding of ultrafast phenomena in nature. Photodissociation and femtosecond probing
Photodissociation is a chemical reaction in which a chemical compound is broken down by photons. It is defined as the interaction of one or more photons with one target molecule. Any photon with sufficient energy can affect the chemical bonds of a chemical compound, such as visible light, ultraviolet light, x-rays and gamma rays. The technique of probing chemical reactions has been successfully applied to unimolecular dissociations. The possibility of using a femtosecond technique to study bimolecular reactions at the individual collision level is complicated by the difficulties of spatial and temporal synchronization. One way to overcome this problem is through the use of Van der Waals complexes of weakly bound molecular cluster. Femtosecond techniques are not limited to the observation of the chemical reactions, but can even exploited to influence the course of the reaction. This can open new relaxation channels or increase the yield of certain reaction products. Picosecond-to-nanosecond spectroscopy

Streak camera

Unlike attosecond and femtosecond pulses, the duration of pulses on the nanosecond timescale are slow enough to be measured through electronic means. Streak cameras translate the temporal profile of pulses into that of a spatial profile; that is, photons that arrive on the detector at different times arrive at different locations on the detector. Time-correlated single photon counting
Time-correlated single photon counting (TCSPC) is used to analyze the relaxation of molecules from an excited state to a lower energy state. Since various molecules in a sample will emit photons at different times following their simultaneous excitation, the decay must be thought of as having a certain rate rather than occurring at a specific time after excitation. By observing how long individual molecules take to emit their photons, and then combining all these data points, an intensity vs. time graph can be generated that displays the exponential decay curve typical to these processes. However, it is difficult to simultaneously monitor multiple molecules. Instead, individual excitation-relaxation events are recorded and then averaged to generate the curve. This technique analyzes the time difference between the excitation of the sample molecule and the release of energy as another photon. Repeating this process many times will give a decay profile. Pulsed lasers or LEDs can be used as a source of excitation. Part of the light passes through the sample, the other to the electronics as "sync" signal. The light emitted by the sample molecule is passed through a monochromator to select a specific wavelength. The light then is detected and amplified by a photomultiplier tube (PMT). The emitted light signal as well as reference light signal is processed through a constant fraction discriminator (CFD) which eliminates timing jitter. After passing through the CFD, the reference pulse activates a time-to-amplitude converter (TAC) circuit. The TAC charges a capacitor which will hold the signal until the next electrical pulse.