[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: phytotherapy systematic review clinical evidence | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: phytotherapy systematic review clinical evidence]

1. Planta Med. 2013 May;79(7):562-75. doi: 10.1055/s-0032-1327831. Epub 2012 Nov
7.

Vitex agnus-castus extracts for female reproductive disorders: a systematic 
review of clinical trials.

van Die MD(1), Burger HG, Teede HJ, Bone KM.

Author information:
(1)Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology-University, Bundoora, Victoria, 
Australia.

Vitex agnus-castus L. (chaste tree; chasteberry) is a popular herbal treatment, 
predominantly used for a range of female reproductive conditions in 
Anglo-American and European practice. The objective of this systematic review 
was to evaluate the evidence for the efficacy and safety of Vitex extracts from 
randomised, controlled trials investigating women's health.Eight databases were 
searched using Latin and common names for Vitex and phytotherapeutic 
preparations of the herb as a sole agent, together with filters for randomised, 
controlled trials or clinical trials. Methodological quality was assessed 
according to the Cochrane risk of bias and Jadad scales, as well as the proposed 
elaboration of CONSORT for reporting trials on herbal interventions.Thirteen 
randomised, controlled trials were identified and twelve are included in this 
review, of which eight investigated premenstrual syndrome, two premenstrual 
dysphoric disorder, and two latent hyperprolactinaemia. For premenstrual 
syndrome, seven of eight trials found Vitex extracts to be superior to placebo 
(5 of 6 studies), pyridoxine (1), and magnesium oxide (1). In premenstrual 
dysphoric disorder, one study reported Vitex to be equivalent to fluoxetine, 
while in the other, fluoxetine outperformed Vitex. In latent 
hyperprolactinaemia, one trial reported it to be superior to placebo for 
reducing TRH-stimulated prolactin secretion, normalising a shortened luteal 
phase, increasing mid-luteal progesterone and 17β-oestradiol levels, while the 
other found Vitex comparable to bromocriptine for reducing serum prolactin 
levels and ameliorating cyclic mastalgia. Adverse events with Vitex were mild 
and generally infrequent. The methodological quality of the included studies 
varied, but was generally moderate-to-high. Limitations include small sample 
sizes in some studies, heterogeneity of conditions being treated, and a range of 
reference treatments.Despite some methodological limitations, the results from 
randomised, controlled trials to date suggest benefits for Vitex extracts in the 
treatment of premenstrual syndrome, premenstrual dysphoric disorder and latent 
hyperprolactinaemia. Further research is recommended, and greater transparency 
in reporting for future trials.

Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0032-1327831
PMID: 23136064 [Indexed for MEDLINE]