[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: biomaterial implant osseointegration titanium clin | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: biomaterial implant osseointegration titanium clinical]

49. Spine J. 2024 Apr;24(4):721-729. doi: 10.1016/j.spinee.2023.10.005. Epub 2023
 Oct 22.

An investigational time course study of titanium plasma spray on 
osseointegration of PEEK and titanium implants: an in vivo ovine model.

Cunningham BW(1), Brooks DM(2), Rolle NP(3), Weiner DA(4), Wang W(5).

Author information:
(1)Musculoskeletal Research Center, Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, MedStar 
Union Memorial Hospital, 201 E University Pkwy, Baltimore, MD 21218, USA.
(2)Musculoskeletal Research Center, Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, MedStar 
Union Memorial Hospital, 201 E University Pkwy, Baltimore, MD 21218, USA. 
Electronic address: dainabrooks3@gmail.com.
(3)Department of Surgery, Inova Fairfax Medical Campus, 3300 Gallows Rd., Falls 
Church, VA 22042, USA.
(4)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, MedStar Southern Maryland Hospital Center, 
7503 Surratts Rd, Clinton, MD 20735, USA.
(5)Musculoskeletal Education and Research Center, A Division of Globus Medical, 
Inc. 2560 General Armistead Ave, Audubon, PA 19403, USA.

BACKGROUND CONTEXT: Methods to improve osseointegration of orthopedic spinal 
implants remains a clinical challenge. Materials composed of 
poly-ether-ether-ketone (PEEK) and titanium are commonly used in orthopedic 
applications due to their inherent properties of biocompatibility. Titanium has 
a clinical reputation for durability and osseous affinity, and PEEK offers 
advantages of a modulus that approximates osseous structures and is radiolucent. 
The hypothesis for the current investigation was that a titanium plasma spray 
(TPS) coating may increase the rate and magnitude of circumferential and 
appositional trabecular osseointegration of PEEK and titanium implants versus 
uncoated controls.
PURPOSE: Using an in vivo ovine model, the current investigation compared 
titanium plasma-sprayed PEEK and titanium dowels versus nonplasma-sprayed 
dowels. Using a time course study of 6 and 12 weeks postoperatively, 
experimental assays to quantify osseointegration included micro-computed 
tomography (microCT), biomechanical testing, and histomorphometry.
STUDY DESIGN/SETTING: In-vivo ovine model.
METHODS: Twelve skeletally mature crossbred sheep were equally randomized into 
postoperative periods of 6 and 12 weeks. Four types of dowel implants-PEEK, 
titanium plasma-sprayed PEEK (TPS PEEK), titanium, and titanium plasma-sprayed 
titanium (TPS titanium) were implanted into cylindrical metaphyseal defects in 
the distal femurs and proximal humeri (one defect per limb, n=48 sites). Sixteen 
nonoperative specimens (eight femurs and eight humeri) served as zero time-point 
controls. Half of the specimens underwent destructive biomechanical pullout 
testing and the remaining half quantitative microCT to quantify circumferential 
bone volume within 1 mm and 2 mm of the implant surface and histomorphometry to 
compute direct trabecular apposition.
RESULTS: There were no intra- or perioperative complications. The TPS-coated 
implants demonstrated significantly higher peak loads at dowel pullout at 6 and 
12 weeks compared with uncoated controls (p<.05). No differences were observed 
across dowel treatments at the zero time-point (p>.05). MicroCT results 
exhibited no significant differences in circumferential osseointegration between 
implants within 1 mm or 2 mm of the dowel surface (p>.05). Direct appositional 
osseointegration of trabecular bone based on histomorphometry was higher for 
TPS-coated groups, regardless of base material, compared with uncoated 
treatments at both time intervals (p<.05).
CONCLUSIONS: The current in vivo study demonstrated the biological and 
mechanical advantages of plasma spray coatings. TPS improved histological 
incorporation and peak force required for implant extraction.
CLINICAL SIGNIFICANCE: Plasma spray coatings may offer clinical benefit by 
improving biological fixation and osseointegration within the first 6 to 12 
weeks postoperatively- the critical healing period for implant-based arthrodesis 
procedures.

Copyright © 2023 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.spinee.2023.10.005
PMID: 37875243 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest One or more of 
the authors declare financial or professional relationships on ICMJE-TSJ 
disclosure forms.