[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: A Modern Herbal — Mrs. M. Grieve | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# A Modern Herbal — Mrs. M. Grieve — Overview

to a host of positive discoveries. Aristotle, the father of biology, believed in spontaneous generation. He was puzzled by the case of parasites, especially in putrefying matter. Even Harvey, who made the first great definite discovery about the mechanism of the body, agreed with Aristotle in this error. It was left for the minute and careful inquirers of the nineteenth century to dispose of the myth. It was only
after centuries of inquiry that the truth was established that life, as
we know it, only arises from life. But the whole course of the inquiry
had illuminated the nature of life and had brought together facts as to
living things of all kinds, plants and animals, great and small, which
show superficially the widest difference. Illumination by unification is
here the note, as clearly as in the mathematical-physical sciences. All
living things are found to be built up from cells and each cell to be an
organism, a being, that is, with certain qualities belonging to it as a
whole, which cannot be predicated of any collection of parts not an
organism. The cell is such an organism, just as the animal is an
organism, and among its qualities as an organism is the power of growth
by assimilating material different from itself. Yet, in spite of this
assimilation and constant change, it grows and decays as one whole and
reproduces its like. Another point of analogy between the animate and the inanimate sphere is
that the process of study in both has been from the larger to the
smaller elements. The microscope has played at least as decisive a part
as the telescope, and it dates from about the same time, at the
beginning of the seventeenth century. Since then it has penetrated
farther and farther into the infinitesimal elements of life and matter,
and in each case there seems to be no assignable limit to our analysis. The cell is broken up into physiological units to which almost every
investigator gives a new name. We are now confronted by the fascinating
theory of Arrhenius of an infinite universe filled with vital spores,
wafted about by radio-activity, and beginning their upward course of
evolution wherever they find a kindly soil on which to rest. To such a
vision the hopes and fears of mortal existence, catastrophes of nature
or of society, even the decay of man, seem transient and trivial, and
the infinities embrace. A third point, perhaps the most important in the comparison, is the way
by which the order of science has entered into our notions of life,
through a great theory, the theory of evolution or the doctrine of
descent. In this we find a solid basis for the co-ordination of facts:
it was the rise of this theory in the hands of one thinker of
unconquerable patience and love of truth which has put the study of
biology in the pre-eminent position which it now holds. But it is
necessary to consider the evolution theory as something both older and
wider than Darwin's presentation of it. Darwin's work was to suggest a
_vera causa_ for a process which earlier philosophers had imagined
almost from the beginning of abstract thought. He observed and collected
a multitude of facts which made his explanations of the change of
species--within their limits--as convincing as they are plausible. But
the idea that species change, by slow and regular steps, was an old one,
and his particular explanations, natural and sexual selection, are seen
on further reflection to have only a limited scope. This is no place, of course, to discuss the details of the greatest and
most vexed question in the whole science of life. But it belongs to our
argument to consider it from one or two general points of view. Its
analogies with, and its differences from, the great generalizations of
mathematical physics, are both highly instructive. The first crude
hypothesis of the gradual evolution of various vegetable and animal
forms from one another may be found in the earliest Greek thinkers, just
as Pythagoras and Aristarchus anticipated the Copernican theory. Aristotle gave the idea a philosophic statement which only the fuller
knowledge of our own time enables us to appreciate. He traced the
gradual progression in nature from the inorganic to the organic, and
among living things from the simpler to the higher forms. But his
knowledge of the facts was insufficient: the Greeks had no microscope,
and the dissecting knife was forbidden on the human subject. Then, as
these things were gradually added to science from the seventeenth
century onwards, and the record of the rocks gave the confirmation of
palaeontology, the whole realm of living nature was gradually unfolded
before us, every form connected both in function and in history with
every other, every organ fulfilling a necessary part, either now or in
the past, and growing and changing to gain a more perfect accord with
its environment. Such is the supreme conception which now dominates
biological science much as the Newtonian theory has dominated physics
for two hundred years; and it is idle to debate whether this new idea is
different in kind or only in degree from the great law of physics.