[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: crystal structure protein drug target binding | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: crystal structure protein drug target binding]

72. J Biol Chem. 2002 Sep 6;277(36):33291-9. doi: 10.1074/jbc.M204368200. Epub
2002  Jun 14.

Crystal structure of Haemophilus influenzae NadR protein. A bifunctional enzyme 
endowed with NMN adenyltransferase and ribosylnicotinimide kinase activities.

Singh SK(1), Kurnasov OV, Chen B, Robinson H, Grishin NV, Osterman AL, Zhang H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Howard Hughes Medical Institute, University of 
Texas Southwestern Medical Center, Dallas, Texas 75390, USA.

Haemophilus influenzae NadR protein (hiNadR) has been shown to be a bifunctional 
enzyme possessing both NMN adenylytransferase (NMNAT; EC ) and 
ribosylnicotinamide kinase (RNK; EC ) activities. Its function is essential for 
the growth and survival of H. influenzae and thus may present a new highly 
specific anti-infectious drug target. We have solved the crystal structure of 
hiNadR complexed with NAD using the selenomethionine MAD phasing method. The 
structure reveals the presence of two distinct domains. The N-terminal domain 
that hosts the NMNAT activity is closely related to archaeal NMNAT, whereas the 
C-terminal domain, which has been experimentally demonstrated to possess 
ribosylnicotinamide kinase activity, is structurally similar to yeast 
thymidylate kinase and several other P-loop-containing kinases. There appears to 
be no cross-talk between the two active sites. The bound NAD at the active site 
of the NMNAT domain reveals several critical interactions between NAD and the 
protein. There is also a second non-active-site NAD molecule associated with the 
C-terminal RNK domain that adopts a highly folded conformation with the 
nicotinamide ring stacking over the adenine base. Whereas the RNK domain of the 
hiNadR structure presented here is the first structural characterization of a 
ribosylnicotinamide kinase from any organism, the NMNAT domain of hiNadR defines 
yet another member of the pyridine nucleotide adenylyltransferase family.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.M204368200
PMID: 12068016 [Indexed for MEDLINE]