[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: ethnobotany traditional medicine biological activi | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: ethnobotany traditional medicine biological activity]

5. J Ethnopharmacol. 2021 Apr 6;269:113663. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2020.113663. Epub 
2020 Dec 3.

Traditional usage and biological activity of Plectranthus madagascariensis and 
its varieties: A review.

Lambrechts IA(1), Lall N(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Plant and Soil Sciences, University of Pretoria, Pretoria, 
South Africa. Electronic address: isa.lambrechts@up.ac.za.
(2)Department of Plant and Soil Sciences, University of Pretoria, Pretoria, 
South Africa; School of Natural Resources, University of Missouri, Columbia, MO, 
United States; College of Pharmacy, JSS Academy of Higher Education and 
Research, India. Electronic address: namrita.lall@up.ac.za.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Plectranthus madagascariensis (Pers.) Benth. is 
an indigenous aromatic South African plant species that are traditionally used 
to treat various dermatological and respiratory ailments.
AIM OF THE STUDY: Three varieties of P. madagascariensis exist in South Africa, 
namely, Plectranthus aliciae (Codd) van Jaarsv. & T.J. Edwards, Plectranthus 
ramosior (Benth.) Van Jaarsv. and Plectranthus madagascariensis (Pers.) Benth 
var. madagascariensis. This article summarizes the documented ethnobotanical 
uses and research which has been conducted to date on the chemical constituents 
and biological effects of P. madagascariensis and its varieties. This review 
aimed to investigate and highlight the lack scientific reports of the potential 
activity of these varieties based on their traditional usage and to emphasise 
the need for further investigation of the benefits of P. madagascariensis and 
its varieties.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Extensive database retrieval using platforms not limited 
to but including Google Scholar, ScienceDirect and PubMed, was performed by 
using keywords such as "Plectranthus madagascariensis" "Plectranthus 
madagascariensis var. aliciae", "Plectranthus aliciae", "Plectranthus ramosior", 
"Plectranthus madagascariensis var. ramosior" and "Plectranthus hirtus" In 
addition, relevant books and digital documentation were consulted to collect all 
available scientific literature to provide a comprehensive review.
RESULTS: Several studies have reported the traditional usage of P. 
madagascariensis for the treatment of diseases related to the respiratory system 
such as coughs, colds and asthma as well as dermatological disorders associated 
with wounds and inflammation. Whilst there are no reports on the traditional 
usage of P. madagascariensis varieties to treat other maladies, several other 
species within the genus are used in other traditional practices. Plectranthus 
ramosior is used as a toxin for fishing. In literature, seven major 
phytochemical compounds have been identified from P. madagascariensis. Its 
extract and essential oil contain polyphenols, abietane diterpenes and abietane 
diterpenes with a quinone moiety. The extracts and major chemical constituents 
of P. madagascariensis and its major phytochemicals have reported activity 
against several biological targets. Reports relating to the antibacterial 
activity of P. madagascariensis against microbes associated with tuberculosis 
and wound infections has been consistent and correlates with the documented 
traditional usage of the plant. Literature reported on the antibacterial 
activity of P. aliciae targeting bacteria associated with wound infections and 
lung cancer cells. No further literature reports of the biological activity of 
the other P. madagascariensis varieties have been found. Other noteworthy 
biological activities reported in the literature of P. madagascariensis and its 
compounds include their activities against targets of Alzheimer's disease and 
breast cancer, in particular. This activity is not related to the traditional 
usage of the plant.
CONCLUSION: Plectranthus madagascariensis and its compounds have been proven to 
be effective in treating a range of maladies. Based on the extensive literature 
on this plant, it can be concluded that numerous in vitro pharmacological 
activities of P. madagascariensis have been reported. However, there is a lack 
of information available for this species with regards to its in vivo data 
including both pre-clinical and clinical studies. Since the extract of P. 
madagascariensis and its isolated compounds have displayed noteworthy anticancer 
potential, we recommend further investigation of pharmacokinetic studies to be 
included in future research.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2020.113663
PMID: 33278544 [Indexed for MEDLINE]