[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Complex Circuit Systems | Topic: Multigate device | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Multigate device — Overview

current. Multiple gates also allow enhanced current in the "on" state, also known as drive current. Multigate transistors also provide a better analog performance due to a higher intrinsic gain and lower channel length modulation. These advantages translate to lower power consumption and enhanced device performance. Nonplanar devices are also more compact than conventional planar transistors, enabling higher transistor density which translates to smaller overall microelectronics. Integration challenges
The primary challenges to integrating nonplanar multigate devices into conventional semiconductor manufacturing processes include:

 Fabrication of a thin silicon "fin" tens of nanometers wide
 Fabrication of matched gates on multiple sides of the fin

Compact modeling

BSIMCMG106.0.0, officially released on March 1, 2012 by UC Berkeley BSIM Group, is the first standard model for FinFETs. BSIM-CMG is implemented in Verilog-A. Physical surface-potential-based formulations are derived for both intrinsic and extrinsic models with finite body doping. The surface potentials at the source and drain ends are solved analytically with poly-depletion and quantum mechanical effects. The effect of finite body doping is captured through a perturbation approach. The analytic surface potential solution agrees closely with the 2-D device simulation results. If the channel doping concentration is low enough to be neglected, computational efficiency can be further improved by a setting a specific flag (COREMOD = 1). All of the important multi-gate (MG) transistor behavior is captured by this model. Volume inversion is included in the solution of Poisson's equation, hence the subsequent I–V formulation automatically captures the volume-inversion effect. Analysis of electrostatic potential in the body of MG MOSFETs provided a model equation for short-channel effects (SCE). The extra electrostatic control from the end gates (top/bottom gates) (triple or quadruple-gate) is also captured in the short-channel model. See also

 Three-dimensional integrated circuit
 Semiconductor device
 Clock gating
 High-κ dielectric
 Next-generation lithography
 Extreme ultraviolet lithography
 Immersion lithography
 Strain engineering
 Very Large Scale Integration (VLSI)
 Neuromorphic engineering
 Bit slicing
 3D printing
 Silicon on insulator (SOI)
 MOSFET
 Floating-gate MOSFET
 Transistor
 BSIM
 High-electron-mobility transistor
 Field-effect transistor
 JFET
 Tetrode transistor
 Pentode transistor
 Memristor
 Quantum circuit
 Quantum gate
 Transistor model
 Die shrink

References

External links
 Inverted T-FET (Freescale Semiconductor)
 Omega FinFET (TSMC)
 Tri-Gate transistor (Intel Corp.)
 Flexfet Transistor (American Semiconductor)
 Intel video explaining 3D ("Tri-Gate") chip and transistor design used in 22 nm architecture of Ivy Bridge

MOSFETs
Transistor types