[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: MRI physics image quality artifact reduction | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: MRI physics image quality artifact reduction]

63. NMR Biomed. 2021 Sep;34(9):e4567. doi: 10.1002/nbm.4567. Epub 2021 Jun 2.

Double delay alternating with nutation for tailored excitation facilitates 
banding-free isotropic high-resolution intracranial vessel wall imaging.

Coolen BF(1), Schoormans J(1), Gilbert G(2), Kooreman ES(1)(3), de Winter N(1), 
Viessmann O(4), Zwanenburg JJM(5), Majoie CBLM(6), Strijkers GJ(1), Nederveen 
AJ(6), Siero JCW(5)(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical Engineering & Physics, Amsterdam UMC, Amsterdam, The 
Netherlands.
(2)MR Clinical Science, Philips Canada, Markham, Ontario, Canada.
(3)Department of Radiation Oncology, The Netherlands Cancer Institute, 
Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(4)Athinoula A. Martinos Center for Biomedical Imaging, Department of Radiology, 
Harvard Medical School, Massachusetts General Hospital, Charlestown, 
Massachusetts, USA.
(5)Department of Radiology, University Medical Center Utrecht, Utrecht 
University, Utrecht, The Netherlands.
(6)Department of Radiology & Nuclear Medicine, Amsterdam UMC, Amsterdam, The 
Netherlands.
(7)Spinoza Centre for Neuroimaging, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

The purpose of this study was to evaluate the use of a double delay alternating 
with nutation for tailored excitation (D-DANTE)-prepared sequence for 
banding-free isotropic high-resolution intracranial vessel wall imaging (IC-VWI) 
and to compare its performance with regular DANTE in terms of signal-to-noise 
ratio (SNR) as well as cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and blood suppression 
efficiency. To this end, a D-DANTE-prepared 3D turbo spin echo sequence was 
implemented by interleaving two separate DANTE pulse trains with different RF 
phase-cycling schemes, but keeping all other DANTE parameters unchanged, 
including the total number of pulses and total preparation time. This achieved a 
reduction of the banding distance compared with regular DANTE enabling 
banding-free imaging up to higher resolutions. Bloch simulations assuming static 
vessel wall and flowing CSF spins were performed to compare DANTE and D-DANTE in 
terms of SNR and vessel wall/CSF contrast. Similar image quality measures were 
assessed from measurements on 13 healthy middle-aged volunteers. Both simulation 
and in vivo results showed that D-DANTE had only slightly lower vessel wall/CSF 
and vessel wall/blood contrast-to-noise ratio values compared with regular 
DANTE, which originated from a 10%-15% reduction in vessel wall SNR but not from 
reduced CSF or blood suppression efficiency. As anticipated, IC-VWI acquisitions 
showed that D-DANTE can successfully remove banding artifacts compared with 
regular DANTE with equal scan time or DANTE preparation length. Moreover, 
application was demonstrated in a patient with an intracranial aneurysm, 
indicating improved robustness to slow flow artifacts compared with clinically 
available 3D turbo spin echo scans. In conclusion, D-DANTE provides banding 
artifact-free IC-VWI up to higher isotropic resolutions compared with regular 
DANTE. This allows for a more flexible choice of DANTE preparation parameters in 
high-resolution IC-VWI protocols.

© 2021 The Authors. NMR in Biomedicine published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/nbm.4567
PMCID: PMC8459252
PMID: 34076305 [Indexed for MEDLINE]