[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: Mathematical descriptions of the electromagnetic field | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Mathematical descriptions of the electromagnetic field — Overview

product: from which it is easily seen that Gauss's law is the scalar part, the Ampère–Maxwell law is the vector part, Faraday's law is the pseudovector part, and Gauss's law for magnetism is the pseudoscalar part of the equation. After expanding and rearranging, this can be written as Spacetime algebra We can identify APS as a subalgebra of the spacetime algebra (STA) , defining and . The s have the same algebraic properties of the gamma matrices but their matrix representation is not needed. The derivative is now

The Riemann–Silberstein becomes a bivector

and the charge and current density become a vector

Owing to the identity

Maxwell's equations reduce to the single equation

Differential forms approach

Field 2-form

In free space, where  and  are constant everywhere, Maxwell's equations simplify considerably once the language of differential geometry and differential forms is used. In what follows, cgs-Gaussian units, not SI units are used. (To convert to SI, see here.) The electric and magnetic fields are now jointly described by a 2-form F in a 4-dimensional spacetime manifold. The Faraday tensor  (electromagnetic tensor) can be written as a 2-form in Minkowski space with metric signature  as

which is the exterior derivative of the electromagnetic four-potential 

The source free equations can be written by the action of the exterior derivative on this 2-form. But for the equations with source terms (Gauss's law and the Ampère-Maxwell equation), the Hodge dual of this 2-form is needed. The Hodge star operator takes a p-form to a ()-form, where n is the number of dimensions. Here, it takes the 2-form (F) and gives another 2-form (in four dimensions, ). For the basis cotangent vectors, the Hodge dual is given as (see )

and so on. Using these relations, the dual of the Faraday 2-form is the Maxwell tensor,

Current 3-form, dual current 1-form

Here, the 3-form J is called the electric current form or current 3-form:

That F is an closed form, and the exterior derivative of its Hodge dual is the current 3-form, express Maxwell's equations:

Here d denotes the exterior derivative – a natural coordinate- and metric-independent differential operator acting on forms, and the (dual) Hodge star operator  is a linear transformation from the space of 2-forms to the space of (4 − 2)-forms defined by the metric in Minkowski space (in four dimensions even by any metric conformal to this metric). The fields are in natural units where . Since d2 = 0, the 3-form J satisfies the conservation of current (continuity equation):

The current 3-form can be integrated over a 3-dimensional space-time region. The physical interpretation of this integral is the charge in that region if it is spacelike, or the amount of charge that flows through a surface in a certain amount of time if that region is a spacelike surface cross a timelike interval. As the exterior derivative is defined on any manifold, the differential form version of the Bianchi identity makes sense for any 4-dimensional manifold, whereas the source equation is defined if the manifold is oriented and has a Lorentz metric. In particular the differential form version of the Maxwell equations are a convenient and intuitive formulation of the Maxwell equations in general relativity. Note: In much of the literature, the notations  and  are switched, so that  is a 1-form called the current and  is a 3-form called the dual current. Linear macroscopic influence of matter

In a linear, macroscopic theory, the influence of matter on the electromagnetic field is described through more general linear transformation in the space of 2-forms. We call

the constitutive transformation. The role of this transformation is comparable to the Hodge duality transformation. The Maxwell equations in the presence of matter then become:

where the current 3-form J still satisfies the continuity equation . When the fields are expressed as linear combinations (of exterior products) of basis forms θp,

the constitutive relation takes the form

where the field coefficient functions are antisymmetric in the indices and the constitutive coefficients are antisymmetric in the corresponding pairs. In particular, the Hodge duality transformation leading to the vacuum equations discussed above are obtained by taking

which up to scaling is the only invariant tensor of this type that can be defined with the metric. In this formulation, electromagnetism generalises immediately to any 4-dimensional oriented manifold or with small adaptations any manifold. Alternate metric signature

In the particle physicist's sign convention for the metric signature , the potential 1-form is

The Faraday curvature 2-form becomes

and the Maxwell tensor becomes

The current 3-form J is

and the corresponding dual 1-form is

The current norm is now positive and equals

with the canonical volume form . Curved spacetime

Traditional formulation
Matter and energy generate curvature of spacetime. This is the subject of general relativity.