[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: biomaterial implant osseointegration titanium clin | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: biomaterial implant osseointegration titanium clinical]

25. Br Dent J. 2025 Oct;239(8):571-577. doi: 10.1038/s41415-025-8813-1. Epub 2025
 Oct 17.

Success and survival of titanium surface modification on dental implant 
osseointegration: a systematic review.

Abdo VL(1), Vieira-Silva IF(2), Dias BMF(3), de Arruda JAA(4), Barreiros ID(3), 
Sampaio AA(3), Abreu LG(5), Jardilino FDM(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Periodontology, Dental Research Division, Guarulhos University, 
Guarulhos, Brazil.
(2)Department of Restorative Dentistry, School of Dentistry, Federal University 
of Minas Gerais, Belo Horizonte, Brazil. isadora@isadorafranca.com.br.
(3)Department of Oral Surgery, Pathology, and Clinical Dentistry, School of 
Dentistry, Federal University of Minas Gerais, Belo Horizonte, Brazil.
(4)Department of Oral Diagnosis and Pathology, School of Dentistry, Federal 
University of Rio de Janeiro, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
(5)Department of Pediatric Dentistry and Orthodontics, School of Dentistry, 
Federal University of Minas Gerais, Belo Horizonte, Brazil.

Introduction The quality of the coating on dental titanium (Ti) implants plays a 
crucial role in osseointegration. Surface treatments are essential because they 
modulate cellular behaviour at the bone - implant interface, enhancing healing 
and long-term mechanical stability.Aims To evaluate the clinical longevity of 
dental Ti implants with different surface treatments, based on success and 
survival rates.Methods A systematic search of five databases and grey literature 
was conducted. Both randomised controlled trials and non-randomised 
interventional studies were included. Risk of bias was assessed using the 
Cochrane Risk of Bias tool.Results In total, 30 studies involving 1,719 
participants were included. Surface treatments were classified as mechanical, 
chemical, physical, or combined. Follow-up periods ranged from six weeks to 72 
months. Success rates were consistently high (90.9-100%), while survival rates 
varied according to the type of surface modification and follow-up duration. 
Risk of bias ranged from low to high.Discussion Although surface-treated 
implants generally demonstrated favourable outcomes, heterogeneity in study 
design and follow-up periods limited direct comparisons. The observed 
variability in survival rates underscores the need to refine surface 
technologies and standardise clinical protocols.Conclusion Additional 
high-quality studies are needed to determine which surface modifications provide 
superior longevity and clinical reliability.

© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to the British Dental 
Association.

DOI: 10.1038/s41415-025-8813-1
PMID: 41131312 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Ethics declaration. The authors declare no 
conflicts of interest. Relevant ethical standards and current best practice have 
been adhered to at all times. Formal research ethical clearance and consent was 
not required as the study solely made use of data that are available in the 
public domain.