[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: The Herbalist — Meyer | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# The Herbalist — Meyer — Overview

because the general idea is that there is more sympathy in heaven than elsewhere), and as I sat there a knock came at the door, and the head of the porter of Clement's Inn presented itself to me. It was the first of January, and he gravely gave me an orange and a lemon. He had a basketful on his arm. I asked for some explanation. The only
information forthcoming was that from time immemorial every tenant on New
Year's Day was presented with an orange and a lemon, and that I was
expected, and that every tenant was expected, to give half-a-crown to the
porter. Further inquiries from the steward gave me this explanation,
that in old days when the river was not used merely as a sewer, the fruit
was brought up in barges and boats to the steps from below the bridge and
carried by porters through the Inn to Clare Market. Toll was at first
charged, and this toll was divided among the tenants whose convenience
was interfered with; hence the old lines beginning "Oranges and lemons
said the bells of St. Clement's."  I have often wondered whether the rest
of the old catch had reason as well as rhyme. Dickens loved the old Inns and squares. Traddles lived in Gray's Inn:
Traddles who was in love with "the dearest girl in the world"; Tom Pinch
and his sister used to meet near the fountain in the Middle Temple; Sir
John Chester had rooms in Paper Buildings; Pip lived in Garden Court at
the time of the collapse of Great Expectations; Mortimer Lightwood and
Eugene Wrayburn had their queer domestic partnership in the Temple. The
scene of the murderous plot in "Hunted Down" is also laid in the Temple,
"at the top of a lonely corner house overlooking the river," probably the
end house of King's Bench Walk. Mr. Grewgious, Herbert Pocket, and Joe
Gargery are associated with Staple Inn and Barnard's Inn. Lincoln's Inn has not been forgotten; for though Mr. Tulkinghorn lived in
the Fields, yet Serjeant Snubbin was to be found in Lincoln's Inn Old
Square. I never could understand why Dickens located the Serjeant in the realms
of Equity; but what should interest us more to-night is the fact that the
greater part of "Pickwick" was written in Furnival's Inn, which, as
Dickens describes it, was "a shady, quiet place echoing to the footsteps
of the stragglers there, and rather monotonous and gloomy on summer
evenings."

But to know the Inns as Dickens knew them, let us accompany Mr. Pickwick
to the Magpie and Stump in search of Mr. Lowten, Mr. Perker's clerk. "Is Mr. Lowten here, ma'am?" inquired Mr. Pickwick. "Yes, he is, sir," replied the landlady. "Here, Charley, show the
   gentleman in to Mr. Lowten."

   "The gen'lm'n can't go in just now," said a shambling pot-boy, with a
   red head, "'cos Mr. Lowten's singin' a comic song, and he'll put him
   out. He'll be done d'rectly, sir."

Well, you know, respectable solicitors (clerks) don't sing comic songs at
public houses nowadays, but that is how Mr. Pickwick found Mr. Lowten. "Would you like to join us?" said Mr. Lowten, when at length he had
   finished his comic song and been introduced to Mr. Pickwick. And I am
   very glad that Mr. Pickwick did join them, as he heard something of
   the old Inns from old Jack Bamber. "I have been to-night, gentlemen," said Mr. Pickwick, hoping to start
   a subject which all the company could take a part in discussing--"I
   have been to-night in a place which you all know very well, doubtless,
   but which I have not been in for some years, and know very little of;
   I mean Gray's Inn, gentlemen. Curious little nooks in a great place,
   like London, these old Inns are."

   "By Jove!" said the chairman, whispering across the table to Mr. Pickwick, "you have hit upon something that one of us, at least, would
   talk upon for ever. You'll draw old Jack Bamber out; he was never
   heard to talk about anything else but the Inns, and he has lived alone
   in them till he's half crazy."

   "Aha!" said the old man, a brief description of whose manner and
   appearance concluded the last chapter, "aha! who was talking about the
   Inns?"

   "I was, sir," replied Mr. Pickwick; "I was observing what singular old
   places they are."

   "_You_!" said the old man, contemptuously. "What do _you_ know of the
   time when young men shut themselves up in those lonely rooms, and read
   and read, hour after hour, and night after night, till their reason
   wandered beneath their midnight studies; till their mental powers were
   exhausted: till morning's light brought no freshness or health to
   them; and they sank beneath the unnatural devotion of their youthful
   energies to their dry old books? Coming down to a later time, and a
   very different day, what do _you_ know of the gradual sinking beneath
   consumption, or the quick wasting of fever--the grand results of
   'life' and dissipation--which men have undergone in these same rooms? How many vain pleaders for mercy, do you think, have turned away heart-
   sick from the lawyer's office, to find a resting-place in the Thames,
   or a refuge in the gaol?