[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: MRI physics image quality artifact reduction | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: MRI physics image quality artifact reduction]

49. Magn Reson Imaging. 2020 Apr;67:59-68. doi: 10.1016/j.mri.2019.12.011. Epub
2020  Jan 7.

A mixed waveform protocol for reduction of the cardiac motion artifact in 
black-blood diffusion-weighted imaging of the liver.

Rauh SS(1), Riexinger AJ(2), Ohlmeyer S(2), Hammon M(2), Saake M(2), Stemmer 
A(3), Uder M(2), Hensel B(4), Laun FB(2).

Author information:
(1)Amsterdam UMC, University of Amsterdam, Amsterdam, the Netherlands; Institute 
of Radiology, University Hospital Erlangen, Friedrich-Alexander-Universität 
Erlangen-Nürnberg (FAU), Erlangen, Germany. Electronic address: 
s.s.rauh@amsterdamumc.nl.
(2)Institute of Radiology, University Hospital Erlangen, 
Friedrich-Alexander-Universität Erlangen-Nürnberg (FAU), Erlangen, Germany.
(3)Siemens Healthcare GmbH, Erlangen, Germany.
(4)Center for Medical Physics and Engineering, Friedrich-Alexander-Universität 
Erlangen-, Nürnberg, (FAU), Erlangen, Germany.

OBJECTIVE: Diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI) in the liver suffers from signal 
loss due to the cardiac motion artifact, especially in the left liver lobe. The 
purpose of this work was to improve the image quality of liver DWI in terms of 
cardiac motion artifact reduction and achievement of black-blood images in low 
b-value images.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Ten healthy volunteers (age 20-31 years) underwent MRI 
examinations at 1.5 T with a prototype DWI sequence provided by the vendor. Two 
diffusion encodings (i.e. waveforms), monopolar and flow-compensated, and the 
b-values 0, 20, 50, 100, 150, 600 and 800 s/mm2 were used. Two Likert scales 
describing the severity of the pulsation artifact and the quality of the 
black-blood state were defined and evaluated by two experienced radiologists. 
Regions of interest (ROIs) were manually drawn in the right and left liver lobe 
in each slice and combined to a volume of interest (VOI). The mean and 
coefficient of variation were calculated for each normalized VOI-averaged signal 
to assess the severity of the cardiac motion artifact. The ADC was calculated 
using two b-values once for the monopolar data and once with mixed data, using 
the monopolar data for the small and the flow-compensated data for the high 
b-value. A Wilcoxon rank sum test was used to compare the Likert scores obtained 
for monopolar and flow-compensated data.
RESULTS: At b-values from 20 to 150 s/mm2, unlike the flow-compensated diffusion 
encoding, the monopolar encoding yielded black blood in all images with a 
negligible signal loss due to the cardiac motion artifact. At the b-values 600 
and 800 s/mm2, the flow-compensated encoding resulted in a significantly reduced 
cardiac motion artifact, especially in the left liver lobe, and in a black-blood 
state. The ADC calculated with monopolar data was significantly higher in the 
left than in the right liver lobe.
CONCLUSION: It is recommendable to use the following mixed waveform protocol: 
Monopolar diffusion encodings at small b-values and flow-compensated diffusion 
encodings at high b-values.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mri.2019.12.011
PMID: 31923466 [Indexed for MEDLINE]