[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: low-level laser therapy wound healing pain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: low-level laser therapy wound healing pain]

82. Cureus. 2024 Mar 23;16(3):e56756. doi: 10.7759/cureus.56756. eCollection 2024
 Mar.

Improving Healing: The Putative Effects of Low-Level Laser Therapy for Ulcer in 
Parkinson's Disease.

Sasun AR(1), Phansopkar P(2), Qureshi MI(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neuro-Physiotherapy, Ravi Nair Physiotherapy College, Datta 
Meghe Institute of Higher Education and Research (DMIHER), Wardha, IND.
(2)Department of Musculoskeletal Physiotherapy, Ravi Nair Physiotherapy College, 
Datta Meghe Institute of Higher Education and Research (DMIHER), Wardha, IND.

The progressive nature of Parkinson's disease and its associated motor and 
non-motor symptoms can lead to various complications when patients experience 
immobilization, exacerbating existing motor impairments and potentially giving 
rise to secondary health issues. The variability, progression, and management of 
tremors in PD can be challenging. Due to low bone mass density, patients with 
Parkinson's disease are susceptible to vitamin D deficiency. The lack of 
movement can worsen muscle rigidity and stiffness, leading to contractures and a 
decreased range of motion in joints. Additionally, immobility may contribute to 
cardiovascular deconditioning, orthostatic hypotension, and an increased risk of 
pressure ulcers due to prolonged pressure on specific areas of the body. In this 
case report, we hereby report a case of Parkinson's disease further complicated 
by sinus discharge from the ulcer. This case report describes the putative 
effects of low-level laser therapy on discharging sinus from the wound secondary 
to a diabetic ulcer in idiopathic Parkinson's disease. Achieving an ideal level 
of functional independence and preventing problems associated with extended 
immobility are essential goals of structured physical therapy postoperative 
care. This may assist the patient in returning to their pre-injury position more 
quickly. Our patient underwent several interventions for wound healing, 
including proprioception training, tremor management, improving dynamic trunk 
balance, and pain control measures. Clinical outcome measures like the Barthel 
Index, lower extremity functional scale, and Visual-Analog Scale were used to 
assess the progress of the patient. Managing these interconnected conditions 
requires a multi-disciplinary approach.

Copyright © 2024, Sasun et al.

DOI: 10.7759/cureus.56756
PMCID: PMC11033697
PMID: 38650813

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.