[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Propulsion Mechanics | Topic: The Fusion Driven Rocket: Nuclear Propulsion through Direct  | Type: OpenAlex-OA | Level: Graduate]

[OpenAlex | Propulsion Engineering | Year: 2018 | Citations: 3]

Title: The Fusion Driven Rocket: Nuclear Propulsion through Direct Conversion of Fusion Energy

Abstract:
The future of manned space exploration and development of space depends critically on the creation of a dramatically more efficient propulsion architecture for in-space transportation. A very persuasive reason for investigating the applicability of nuclear power in rockets is the vast energy density gain of nuclear fuel when compared to chemical combustion energy. The Fusion Driven rocket (FDR) represents a revolutionary approach to fusion propulsion where the power source releases its energy directly into the propellant, not requiring conversion to electricity. It employs a solid lithium propellant that requires no significant tankage mass. The propellant is rapidly heated and accelerated to high exhaust velocity (&gt; 30 km/s), while having no substantial physical interaction with the spacecraft thereby avoiding damage to the rocket and limiting both the thermal heat load and radiator mass. The key to achieving this stems from research at MSNW and the UW on the magnetically driven implosion of metal foils onto a magnetized plasma target to obtain fusion conditions. A logical extension of this work leads to a method that utilizes these metal shells (or liners) to not only achieve fusion conditions, but to serve as the propellant as well. Several low-mass, magnetically driven metal liners are inductively driven to converge radially and axially and form a thick blanket surrounding the target plasmoid and compress the plasmoid to fusion conditions. Virtually all of the radiant, neutron and particle energy from the plasma is absorbed by the encapsulating, thick metal blanket thereby isolating the spacecraft from the fusion. This energy, in addition to the intense Ohmic heating at peak magnetic field compression, is adequate to vaporize and ionize the metal blanket. The expansion of this hot, ionized metal propellant through a magnetically insulated nozzle produces high thrust at the optimal Isp. The energy from the fusion process, along with the waste heat, is thus utilized at very high efficiency. The basic scheme for FDR is illustrated and described in the report (see Fig. 2) The two most critical issues in meeting challenges introduced employing magneto-inertial fusion as the power source is driver efficiency and stand-off the ability to isolate and protect fusion and thruster from the resultant fusion energy. By employing metal shells for compression, it is possible to produce the desired convergent motion inductively by inserting the metal sheets along the inner surface of cylindrical or conically tapered coils. Both stand-off and energy efficiency issues are solved by this arrangement. 3 This two year effort focused on achieving three key criteria for the Fusion Driven Rocket to move forward for technological development: (1) the physics of the FDR must be fully understood and validated, (2) the design and technology development for the FDR required for its implementation in space must be fully characterized, and (3) an in-depth analysis of the rocket design and spacecraft integration as well as mission architectures enabled by the FDR need to be performed. A subscale, laboratory liner compression test facility was assembled at the University of Washington Plasma Dynamics Laboratory with sufficient liner kinetic energy (~ 0.5 MJ) to reach conditions required for fusion breakeven conditions. Detailed experimental studies of the dynamic behavior of the driven liners as well as liner convergence and magnetic compression were performed. The development of both the 1D liner dynamics code and the full 3D ANSYS liner calculations was achieved. The characterization of both the FDR and spacecraft as well as a design architecture analysis was conducted that included an examination of a wide range of mission architectures and destinations for which this fusion propulsion system would be enabling or critical. In particular a rapid, single launch manned Mars mission was developed.