[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: MRI physics image quality artifact reduction | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: MRI physics image quality artifact reduction]

65. Magn Reson Med. 2021 Oct;86(4):2034-2048. doi: 10.1002/mrm.28858. Epub 2021
May  31.

Slice encoding for the reduction of outflow signal artifacts in cine balanced 
SSFP imaging.

Ali F(1)(2), Bydder M(1), Han H(3), Wang D(4), Ghodrati V(1)(2), Gao C(1)(2), 
Prosper A(1), Nguyen KL(1)(2)(5)(6), Finn JP(1), Hu P(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiological Sciences, University of California Los Angeles, 
Los Angeles, California, USA.
(2)Physics and Biology in Medicine Inter-Departmental Graduate Program, 
University of California Los Angeles, Los Angeles, California, USA.
(3)Biomedical Imaging Research Center, Cedars Sinai Medical Center, Los Angeles, 
California, USA.
(4)Department of Radiation and Cellular Oncology, University of Chicago, 
Chicago, Illinois, USA.
(5)Division of Cardiology, David Geffen School of Medicine, University of 
California, Los Angeles, California, USA.
(6)Division of Cardiology, VA Greater Los Angeles Healthcare System, Los 
Angeles, California, USA.

PURPOSE: Standard balanced SSFP (bSSFP) cine MRI often suffers from blood 
outflow artifacts. We propose a method that spatially encodes these outflowing 
spins to reduce their effects in the intended slice.
METHODS: Bloch simulations were performed to characterize through-plane flow and 
to investigate how the use of phase encoding along the slice select's direction 
("slice encoding") could alleviate its issues. Phantom scans and in vivo cines 
were acquired on a 3T system, comparing the standard 2D acquisition to the 
proposed slice-encoding method. Nineteen healthy volunteers were recruited for 
short-axis and horizontal long-axis oriented scans. An expert radiologist 
evaluated each slice-encoded/standard cine pairs in a rank comparison test and 
graded their quality on a 1-5 scale. The grades were used for a nonparametric 
paired evaluation for independent samples with a null hypothesis that there was 
no statistical difference between the two quality-grade distributions for α = 
0.05 significance.
RESULTS: Bloch simulation results demonstrated this technique's feasibility, 
showing a fully resolved slice profile given a sufficient number of slice 
encodes. These results were confirmed with the phantom experiments. Each in vivo 
slice-encoded cine had a higher quality than its corresponding standard 
acquisition. The nonparametric paired evaluation came to 0.01 significance, 
encouraging us to reject the null hypothesis and conclude that slice-encoding 
effectively works in reducing outflow effects.
CONCLUSION: The slice-encoding balanced SSFP technique is helpful in mitigating 
outflow effects and is achievable within a single breath hold, being a useful 
alternative for cases in which the flow artifacts are significant.

© 2021 International Society for Magnetic Resonance in Medicine.

DOI: 10.1002/mrm.28858
PMCID: PMC10185493
PMID: 34056755 [Indexed for MEDLINE]