[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: MRI physics image quality artifact reduction | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: MRI physics image quality artifact reduction]

18. Magn Reson Med. 2023 Nov;90(5):2130-2143. doi: 10.1002/mrm.29768. Epub 2023
Jun  28.

Feasibility of online non-rigid motion correction for high-resolution supine 
breast MRI.

Isaieva K(1), Meullenet C(2), Vuissoz PA(1), Fauvel M(3), Nohava L(4), Laistler 
E(4), Zeroual MA(1), Henrot P(2), Felblinger J(1)(3), Odille F(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)IADI, Université de Lorraine, INSERM U1254, Nancy, France.
(2)Institut de Cancérologie de Lorraine Alexis Vautrin, Vandoeuvre-les-Nancy, 
France.
(3)CIC-IT 1433, INSERM, CHRU de Nancy, Nancy, France.
(4)High Field MR Center, Center for Medical Physics and Biomedical Engineering, 
Medical University of Vienna, Vienna, Austria.

PURPOSE: Conventional breast MRI is performed in the prone position with a 
dedicated coil. This allows high-resolution images without breast motion, but 
the patient position is inconsistent with that of other breast imaging 
modalities or interventions. Supine breast MRI may be an interesting 
alternative, but respiratory motion becomes an issue. Motion correction methods 
have typically been performed offline, for instance, the corrected images were 
not directly accessible from the scanner console. In this work, we seek to show 
the feasibility of a fast, online, motion-corrected reconstruction integrated 
into the clinical workflow.
METHODS: Fully sampled T2 -weighted (T2 w) and accelerated T1 -weighted (T1 w) 
breast supine MR images were acquired during free-breathing and were 
reconstructed using a non-rigid motion correction technique (generalized 
reconstruction by inversion of coupled systems). Online reconstruction was 
implemented using a dedicated system combining the MR raw data and respiratory 
signals from an external motion sensor. Reconstruction parameters were optimized 
on a parallel computing platform, and image quality was assessed by objective 
metrics and by radiologist scoring.
RESULTS: Online reconstruction time was 2 to 2.5 min. The metrics and the scores 
related to the motion artifacts significantly improved for both T2 w and T1 w 
sequences. The overall quality of T2 w images was approaching that of the prone 
images, whereas the quality of T1 w images remained significantly lower.
CONCLUSION: The proposed online algorithm allows a noticeable reduction of 
motion artifacts and an improvement of the diagnostic quality for supine breast 
imaging with a clinically acceptable reconstruction time. These findings serve 
as a starting point for further development aimed at improving the quality of T1 
w images.

© 2023 The Authors. Magnetic Resonance in Medicine published by Wiley 
Periodicals LLC on behalf of International Society for Magnetic Resonance in 
Medicine.

DOI: 10.1002/mrm.29768
PMCID: PMC10953366
PMID: 37379467 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: J.F. and F.O. are co‐founders and share‐holders 
of Epsidy (Nancy, France).