[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: crystal structure protein drug target binding | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: crystal structure protein drug target binding]

86. Biomed Pharmacother. 2018 Apr;100:335-348. doi: 10.1016/j.biopha.2018.02.038.
 Epub 2018 Feb 16.

Understanding of human ATP binding cassette superfamily and novel multidrug 
resistance modulators to overcome MDR.

Mohammad IS(1), He W(2), Yin L(3).

Author information:
(1)Center for Research Development and Evaluation of Pharmaceutical Excipients 
and Generic Drugs, China Pharmaceutical University, Nanjing, 210009, PR China.
(2)Center for Research Development and Evaluation of Pharmaceutical Excipients 
and Generic Drugs, China Pharmaceutical University, Nanjing, 210009, PR China. 
Electronic address: weihe@cpu.edu.cn.
(3)Center for Research Development and Evaluation of Pharmaceutical Excipients 
and Generic Drugs, China Pharmaceutical University, Nanjing, 210009, PR China; 
Key Laboratory of Druggability of Biopharmaceutics, China Pharmaceutical 
University, Nanjing, 210009, PR China. Electronic address: lifangyin_@163.com.

Indeed, multi-drug resistance (MDR) is a significant obstacle to effective 
chemotherapy. The overexpression of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) membrane 
transporters is a principal cause of enhanced cytotoxic drug efflux and 
treatment failure in various types of cancers. At cellular level, the pumps of 
ABC family regulate the transportation of numerous substances including drugs in 
and out of the cells. In past, the overexpression of ABC pumps suggested a 
well-known mechanism of drug resistance in cancers as well as infectious 
diseases. In oncology, the search for new compounds for the inhibition of these 
hyperactive ABC pumps either genetically or functionally, growing interest to 
reverse multi-drug resistance and increase chemotherapeutic effects. Several ABC 
pump inhibitor/modulators has been explored to address the cancer associated 
MDR. However, the clinical results are still disappointing and conventional 
chemotherapies are constantly failed in successful eradication of MDR tumors. In 
this context, the structural and functional understanding of different ATP pumps 
is most important. In this concise review, we elaborated basic crystal structure 
of ABC transporter proteins as well as its critical elements such as different 
domains, motifs as well as some important amino acids which are responsible for 
ATP binding and drug efflux as well as demonstrated an ATP-switch model employed 
by various ABC membrane transporters. Furthermore, we briefly summarized 
different newly identified MDR inhibitors/modulators, deployed alone or in 
combination with cytotoxic agents to deal with MDR in different types of 
cancers.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biopha.2018.02.038
PMID: 29453043 [Indexed for MEDLINE]