[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: Double-clad fiber | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Double-clad fiber — Overview

This behavior of rays has an analogy in wave optics. In the language of modes, all the modes have non-zero derivative in vicinity of the chunk, and cannot avoid the core if it is placed there. One example of modes is shown in the figure below and to the right. Although some of modes show scarring and wide voids, none of these voids cover the core. The property of DCFs with spiral-shaped cladding can be interpreted as conservation of angular momentum. The square of the derivative of a mode at the boundary can be interpreted as pressure. Modes (as well as rays) touching the spiral-shaped boundary transfer some angular momentum to it. This transfer of angular momentum should be compensated by pressure at the chunk. Therefore, no one mode can avoid the chunk. Modes can show strong scarring along the classical trajectories (rays) and wide voids, but at least one of scars should approach the chunk to compensate for the angular momentum transferred by the spiral part. The interpretation in terms of angular momentum indicates the optimum size of the chunk. There is no reason to make the chunk larger than the core; a large chunk would not localize the scars sufficiently to provide coupling with the core. There is no reason to localize the scars within an angle smaller than the core: the small derivative to the radius makes the manufacturing less robust; the larger  is, the larger the fluctuations of shape that are allowed without breaking the condition . Therefore, the size of the chunk should be of the same order as the size of the core. More rigorously, the property of the spiral-shaped domain follows from the theorem about boundary behavior of modes of the Dirichlet Laplacian. Although this theorem is formulated for the core-less domain, it prohibits the modes avoiding the core. A mode avoiding the core, then, should be similar to that of the core-less domain. Stochastic optimization of the cladding shape confirms that an almost-circular spiral realizes the best coupling of pump into the core. Tapered 
Tapered double-clad fiber (T-DCF) is a fiber whose outer and inner claddings and core diameters vary smoothly with length. The core at narrow side of T-DCF supports propagation of the fundamental mode only, whereas at the wide side the core  is able to guide many modes. However, it was shown experimentally that light launched into the narrow end of a T-DCF propagates into the wide core without any changes of mode content. As a result, at the wide (substantially multimode) end of T-DCF light propagates only in the lowest-order mode with excellent beam quality. Thus, tapered fiber is a unique and easy way to implement fundamental mode regime propagation (and amplification) in a multimode fiber. Filling factor 

The efficiency of absorption of pumping energy in the fiber is an important parameter of a double-clad fiber laser. In many cases this efficiency can be approximated with

where
 is the cross-sectional area of the cladding
 is the radius of the core (which is taken to be circular)
 is the absorption coefficient of pump light in the core
 is the length of the double-clad fiber, and
 is a dimensionless adjusting parameter, which is sometimes called the "filling factor"; . The filling factor may depend on the initial distribution of the pump light, the shape of the cladding, and the position of the core within it. The exponential behavior of the efficiency of absorption of pump in the core is not obvious. One could expect that some modes of the cladding (or some rays) are better coupled to the core than others; therefore, the "true" dependence could be a combination of several exponentials. Only comparison with simulations justifies this approximation, as shown in the figure above and to the right. In particular, this approximation does not work for circular fibers, see the initial work by Bedo et al., cited below. For chaotic fibers,  approaches unity. The value of  can be estimated by numerical analysis with propagation of waves, expansion by modes or by geometrical optics ray tracing, and values 0.8 and 0.9 are only empirical adjusting parameters, which provide good agreement of the simple estimate with numerical simulations for two specific classes of double-clad fibers: circular offset and rectangular. Obviously, the simple estimate above fails when the offset parameter becomes small compared to the size of cladding. The filling factor  approaches unity especially quickly in the spiral-shaped cladding, due to the special boundary behavior of the modes of the Dirichlet Laplacian. Designers of double-clad fiber look for a reasonable compromise between the optimized shape (for the efficient coupling of pump into the core) and the simplicity of the manufacturing of the preform used to draw the fibers. The power scaling of a fiber laser is limited by unwanted nonlinear effects such as stimulated Brillouin scattering and stimulated Raman scattering. These effects are minimized when the fiber laser is short. For efficient operation, however, the pump should be absorbed in the core along the short length; the estimate above applies in this optimistic case.