[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: MRI physics image quality artifact reduction | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: MRI physics image quality artifact reduction]

60. Magn Reson Med. 2018 Jun;79(6):3103-3113. doi: 10.1002/mrm.26989. Epub 2017
Nov  11.

Phase processing for quantitative susceptibility mapping of regions with large 
susceptibility and lack of signal.

Fortier V(1)(2), Levesque IR(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Medical Physics Unit, McGill University, Montréal, Quebec, Canada.
(2)Biomedical Engineering, McGill University, Montréal, Quebec, Canada.
(3)Research Institute of the McGill University Health Centre, Montréal, Quebec, 
Canada.

PURPOSE: Phase processing impacts the accuracy of quantitative susceptibility 
mapping (QSM). Techniques for phase unwrapping and background removal have been 
proposed and demonstrated mostly in brain. In this work, phase processing was 
evaluated in the context of large susceptibility variations (Δχ) and negligible 
signal, in particular for susceptibility estimation using the iterative phase 
replacement (IPR) algorithm.
METHODS: Continuous Laplacian, region-growing, and quality-guided unwrapping 
were evaluated. For background removal, Laplacian boundary value (LBV), 
projection onto dipole fields (PDF), sophisticated harmonic artifact reduction 
for phase data (SHARP), variable-kernel sophisticated harmonic artifact 
reduction for phase data (V-SHARP), regularization enabled sophisticated 
harmonic artifact reduction for phase data (RESHARP), and 3D quadratic 
polynomial field removal were studied. Each algorithm was quantitatively 
evaluated in simulation and qualitatively in vivo. Additionally, IPR-QSM maps 
were produced to evaluate the impact of phase processing on the susceptibility 
in the context of large Δχ with negligible signal.
RESULTS: Quality-guided unwrapping was the most accurate technique, whereas 
continuous Laplacian performed poorly in this context. All background removal 
algorithms tested resulted in important phase inaccuracies, suggesting that 
techniques used for brain do not translate well to situations where large Δχ and 
no or low signal are expected. LBV produced the smallest errors, followed 
closely by PDF.
CONCLUSION: Results suggest that quality-guided unwrapping should be preferred, 
with PDF or LBV for background removal, for QSM in regions with large Δχ and 
negligible signal. This reduces the susceptibility inaccuracy introduced by 
phase processing. Accurate background removal remains an open question. Magn 
Reson Med 79:3103-3113, 2017. © 2017 International Society for Magnetic 
Resonance in Medicine.

© 2017 International Society for Magnetic Resonance in Medicine.

DOI: 10.1002/mrm.26989
PMID: 29130526 [Indexed for MEDLINE]61. Eur J Radiol. 2018 May;102:213-219. doi: 10.1016/j.ejrad.2018.03.021. Epub
2018  Mar 16.

Role of PROPELLER-DWI of the prostate in reducing distortion and artefact from 
total hip replacement metalwork.

Czarniecki M(1), Caglic I(2), Grist JT(2), Gill AB(2), Lorenc K(3), Slough 
RA(2), Priest AN(2), Barrett T(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Addenbrooke's Hospital and University of Cambridge, 
Cambridge, UK; Department of Radiology, Masovian Brodno Hospital, Warsaw, 
Poland. Electronic address: m.czarniecki@brodnowski.pl.
(2)Department of Radiology, Addenbrooke's Hospital and University of Cambridge, 
Cambridge, UK.
(3)Nalecz Institute of Biocybernetics and Biomedical Engineering Polish Academy 
of Sciences, Warsaw, Poland. Electronic address: klorenc@ibib.waw.pl.
(4)Department of Radiology, Addenbrooke's Hospital and University of Cambridge, 
Cambridge, UK; CamPARI Clinic, Addenbrooke's Hospital and University of 
Cambridge, Cambridge, UK.

OBJECTIVE: To compare image quality, artefact, and distortion in standard 
echo-planar imaging (EPI) with periodically rotated overlapping parallel lines 
with enhanced reconstruction (PROPELLER) for prostate magnetic resonance imaging 
(MRI) diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI) in patients with previous total hip 
replacement (THR).
METHODS: 21 male subjects with a clinical suspicion for, or known prostate 
cancer and previous THR were scanned at 1.5 T using a phased-array body coil. 
DWI was obtained using single-shot EPI and PROPELLER techniques using fat 
saturation (PROPELLER-DWI-FS), and without (PROPELLER-DWI-NFS). Image quality 
(the overall impression of diagnostic quality) was compared to T2-weighted 
(T2WI) imaging using a 5-point Likert scale, with diffusion sequences 
additionally scored for artefact and distortion according to a 4-point scale, 
with artefact defined as the amount of prostate affected and distortion as the 
degree of warping of the organ. The T2W and DW image volumes were compared to 
produce quantitative distortion maps. A two-sample Wilcoxon test compared the 
qualitative scores, with inter-reader variability calculated using Cohen's 
kappa.
RESULTS: 21 patients were included in the study, with an average age of 70.4 
years and PSA 9.2 ng/ml. Hip metalwork was present bilaterally in 3 patients, 
left-sided in 9, and right-sided in 9. PROPELLER-DWI-FS significantly improved 
image quality (p < 0.01) and reduced distortion (p < 0.01) when compared to 
standard EP-DWI. Artefact was not shown to be significantly improved. The last 5 
patients in the study were additionally imaged with PROPELLER-DWI-NFS, which 
resulted in a significant reduction in artefact compared to EP-DWI (p < 0.05). 
Quantitative distortion was significantly lower compared to EP-DWI for both 
PROPELLER with fat saturation (p < 0.01) and without fat saturation (p < 0.01).
CONCLUSION: PROPELLER-DWI demonstrates better image quality and decreases both 
artefact and distortion compared to conventional echo planar sequences in 
patients with hip metalwork.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejrad.2018.03.021
PMID: 29685538 [Indexed for MEDLINE]