[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: graphene biomedical applications toxicity review | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: graphene biomedical applications toxicity review]

93. Biotechnol Adv. 2018 Dec;36(8):2232-2247. doi:
10.1016/j.biotechadv.2018.10.010.  Epub 2018 Oct 17.

The Yin and Yang of carbon nanomaterials in atherosclerosis.

Rezaee M(1), Behnam B(2), Banach M(3), Sahebkar A(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Biotechnology, School of Medicine, Mashhad University 
of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran.
(2)Pharmaceutics Research Center, Institute of Neuropharmacology, Kerman 
University of Medical Sciences, Kerman, Iran; Department of Pharmaceutical 
Biotechnology, Faculty of Pharmacy, Kerman University of Medical Sciences, 
Kerman, Iran.
(3)Department of Hypertension, WAM University Hospital in Lodz, Medical 
University of Lodz, Zeromskiego 113, Lodz, Poland; Polish Mother's Memorial 
Hospital Research Institute (PMMHRI), Lodz, Poland.
(4)Biotechnology Research Center, Pharmaceutical Technology Institute, Mashhad 
University of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran; Neurogenic Inflammation Research 
Center, Mashhad University of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran; School of 
Pharmacy, Mashhad University of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran. Electronic 
address: sahebkara@mums.ac.ir.

With unique characteristics such as high surface area, capacity of various 
functionalization, low weight, high conductivity, thermal and chemical 
stability, and free radical scavenging, carbon nanomaterials (CNMs) such as 
carbon nanotubes (CNTs), fullerene, graphene (oxide), carbon nanohorns (CNHs), 
and their derivatives have increasingly been utilized in nanomedicine and 
biomedicine. On the one hand, owing to ever-increasing applications of CNMs in 
technological and industrial fields as well as presence of combustion-derived 
CNMs in the ambient air, the skepticism has risen over the adverse effects of 
CNMs on human being. The influences of CNMs on cardiovascular system and 
cardiovascular diseases (CVDs) such as atherosclerosis, of which consequences 
are ischemic heart disease and ischemic stroke, as the main causes of death, is 
of paramount importance. In this regard, several studies have been devoted to 
specify the biomedical applications and cardiovascular toxicity of CNMs. 
Therefore, the aim of this review is to specify the roles and applications of 
various CNMs in atherosclerosis, and also identify the key role playing 
parameters in cardiovascular toxicity of CNMs so as to be a clue for prospective 
deployment of CNMs.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biotechadv.2018.10.010
PMID: 30342084 [Indexed for MEDLINE]