[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS neurology | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS neurology]

83. Amyotroph Lateral Scler Other Motor Neuron Disord. 2000 Jun;1 Suppl 2:S45-9. 
doi: 10.1080/14660820052415817.

Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS): compared sensitivity of different motor 
response parameters in ALS.

Pouget J(1), Trefouret S, Attarian S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology and Neuromuscular Diseases, University Hospital La 
Timone, Marseille, France. jpouget@ap-hm.fr

Owing to the low sensitivity of clinical signs in assessing upper motor neuron 
(UMN) involvement in ALS, there is a need for investigative tools capable of 
detecting abnormal function of the pyramidal tract. Transcranial magnetic 
stimulation (TMS) may contribute to the diagnosis by reflecting a UMN 
dysfunction that is not clinically detectable. Several parameters for the motor 
responses to TMS can be evaluated with different levels of significance in 
healthy subjects compared with ALS patients. The central motor conduction time, 
however, is not sensitive in detecting subclinical UMN defects in individual ALS 
patients. The amplitude of the motor evoked potential (MEP), expressed as the 
percentage of the maximum wave, also has a low sensitivity. In some cases, the 
corticomotor threshold is decreased early in the disease course as a result of 
corticomotor neuron hyperexcitability induced by glutamate. Later, the threshold 
increases, indicating a loss of UMN. In our experience, a decreased silent 
period duration appears to be the most sensitive parameter when using motor TMS 
in ALS. TMS is also a sensitive technique for investigating the corticobulbar 
tract, which is difficult to study by other methods. TMS is a widely available, 
painless and safe technique with a good sensitivity that can visualize both 
corticospinal and corticobulbar tract abnormalities. The sensitivity can be 
improved further by taking into account the several MEP parameters, including 
latency and cortical silent period decreased duration.

DOI: 10.1080/14660820052415817
PMID: 11464941 [Indexed for MEDLINE]