[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: phytotherapy systematic review clinical evidence | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: phytotherapy systematic review clinical evidence]

15. BMJ. 2008 Dec 17;337:a2813. doi: 10.1136/bmj.a2813.

Frankincense: systematic review.

Ernst E(1).

Author information:
(1)Complementary Medicine, Peninsula Medical School, Universities of Exeter and 
Plymouth, Exeter EX2 4NT, UK. edzard.ernst@pms.ac.uk

OBJECTIVE: To assess evidence from randomised clinical trials about the 
effectiveness of extracts of Boswellia serrata (frankincense).
DESIGN: Systematic review.
DATA SOURCES: Electronic searches on Medline, Embase, Cinahl, Amed, and Cochrane 
Library. Hand searches of conference proceedings, bibliographies, and 
departmental files.
REVIEW METHODS: All randomised clinical trials of B serrata extract as a 
treatment for any human medical condition were included and studies of B serrata 
preparations combined with other ingredients were excluded. Titles and abstracts 
of all retrieved articles were read and hard copies of all relevant articles 
were obtained. Selection of studies, data extraction and validation were done by 
the author. The Jadad score was used to evaluate the methodological quality of 
all included trials.
RESULTS: Of 47 potentially relevant studies, seven met all inclusion criteria 
(five placebo controlled, two with active controls). The included trials related 
to asthma, rheumatoid arthritis, Crohn's disease, osteoarthritis, and 
collagenous colitis. Results of all trials indicated that B serrata extracts 
were clinically effective. Three studies were of good methodological quality. No 
serious safety issues were noted.
CONCLUSIONS: The evidence for the effectiveness of B serrata extracts is 
encouraging but not compelling.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.a2813
PMCID: PMC2605614
PMID: 19091760 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.