[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Complex Circuit Systems | Topic: Cypress PSoC | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Cypress PSoC — Overview

some models). Bluetooth Low Energy Starting in 2014, Cypress began offering PSoC 4 BLE devices with integrated Bluetooth Low Energy (Bluetooth Smart). This can be used to create connected products leveraging the analog and digital blocks. Users can add and configure the BLE module directly in PSoC creator. Cypress also provides a complete Bluetooth Low Energy stack licensed from Mindtree with both Peripheral and Central functionality. The PSoC 6 series includes versions with BLE including Bluetooth 5 features including extended range or higher speed. Summary

Development tools

PSoC Designer 
This is the first generation software IDE to design and debug and program the PSoC 1 devices. It introduced unique features including a library of pre-characterized analog and digital peripherals in a drag-and-drop design environment which could then be customized to specific design needs by leveraging the dynamically generated API libraries of code. PSoC Creator 
PSoC Creator is the second generation software IDE to design debug and program the PSoC 3 / 4 / 5 devices. The development IDE is combined with an easy-to-use graphical design editor to form a powerful hardware/software co-design environment. PSoC Creator consists of two basic building blocks. The program allows the user to select, configure and connect existing circuits on the chip and the components which are the equivalent of peripherals on MCUs. What makes PSoC intriguing is the possibility of creating its own application-specific peripherals in hardware. Cypress publishes component packs several times a year. PSoC users get new peripherals for their existing hardware without being charged or having to buy new hardware. PSoC Creator also allows much freedom in the assignment of peripherals to I/O pins. Cortex-M 

Generic ARM development tools for PSoC 4 and PSoC 5. Documentation 

PSoC 4 / 5
The amount of documentation for all ARM chips is daunting, especially for newcomers. The documentation for microcontrollers from past decades would easily be inclusive in a single document, but as chips have evolved so has the documentation grown. The total documentation is especially hard to grasp for all ARM chips since it consists of documents from the IC manufacturer (Cypress Semiconductor) and documents from CPU core vendor (ARM Holdings). A typical top-down documentation tree is: manufacturer website, manufacturer marketing slides, manufacturer datasheet for the exact physical chip, manufacturer detailed reference manual that describes common peripherals and aspects of a physical chip family, ARM core generic user guide, ARM core technical reference manual, ARM architecture reference manual that describes the instruction set(s). PSoC 4 / 5 documentation tree (top to bottom)
 PSoC website. PSoC marketing slides. PSoC datasheet. PSoC reference manuals. ARM core website. ARM core generic user guide. ARM core technical reference manual. ARM architecture reference manual. Cypress Semiconductor has additional documents, such as: evaluation board user manuals, application notes, getting started guides, software library documents, errata, and more. See External Links section for links to official PSoC and ARM documents. See also 

ARM architecture, List of ARM microprocessor cores, ARM Cortex-M
Embedded systems
Field-programmable analog array
Interrupt, Interrupt handler, Comparison of real-time operating systems
JTAG
Microcontroller, (List of common microcontrollers)
Reconfigurable computing
Single-board microcontroller

References

Further reading

External links 

PSoC Official Documents
 
 PSoC Designer software for PSoC 1 family
 PSoC Creator software for PSoC 3 / 4 / 5LP families
 PSoC Programmer software for PSoC 1 / 3 / 4 / 5LP families

ARM Official Documents for PSoC 4 / 5

Other
 PSoC Developer
 IoT Expert PSoC Tutorials
 Psoc-chile El primer web site en Español sobre Microcontroladore Psoc

Integrated circuits
System on a chip