[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: cannabis cannabidiol therapeutic epilepsy pain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: cannabis cannabidiol therapeutic epilepsy pain]

77. Turk J Biol. 2021 Aug 30;45(4):570-587. doi: 10.3906/biy-2105-73. eCollection
 2021.

Cannabinoids for SARS-CoV-2 and is there evidence of their therapeutic efficacy?

Onay A(1), Ertaş A(2), Süzerer V(3), Yener İ(4), Yilmaz MA(5), Ayaz-Tilkat E(6), 
Ekinci R(7), Bozhan N(1), Irtegün-Kandemir S(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, Faculty of Science, Dicle University, Diyarbakır 
Turkey.
(2)Department of Pharmacognosy, Faculty of Pharmacy, Dicle University, 
Diyarbakır Turkey.
(3)Department of Pharmacy Services, Vocational School of Health, Bingöl 
University, Bingöl Turkey.
(4)Department of Analytical Chemistry, Faculty of Pharmacy, Dicle University, 
Diyarbakır Turkey.
(5)Dicle University Science and Technology Research and Application Center, 
Diyarbakır Turkey.
(6)Department of Biology, Faculty of Science and Literature, Batman University, 
Batman Turkey.
(7)Department of Field Crops, Faculty of Agriculture, Dicle University, 
Diyarbakır Turkey.
(8)Department of Medical Biology, Faculty of Medicine, Dicle University, 
Diyarbakır Turkey.

To combat the coronaviruses and their novel variants, therapeutic drugs and the 
development of vaccines that are to be effective throughout human life are 
urgently needed. The endocannabinoid system (ECS) acts as a modulator in the 
activation of the microcirculation, immune system, and autonomic nervous system, 
along with controlling pharmacological functions such as emotional responses, 
homeostasis, motor functions, cognition, and motivation. The ECS contains 
endogenous cannabinoids, cannabinoid receptor (CBRs), and enzymes that regulate 
their biosynthesis, transport, and degradation. Moreover, phytocannabinoids and 
synthetic cannabinoids that mimic the action of endocannabinoids also play an 
essential role in the modulation of the ECS. Cannabinoids, the main constituents 
of cannabis (Cannabis sativa L.), are therapeutic compounds that have received 
international attention in the health field due to their therapeutic properties. 
Recently, they have been tested for the treatment of COVID-19 due to their 
antiviral properties. Indeed, cannabinoid-type compounds, and in particular 
cannabidiol (CBD), isolated from glandular trichomes found in the calyx of 
cannabis flowers with reported antiviral properties is hypothesized to be a 
therapeutic option in the ministration of SARS-CoV-2 consorted with COVID-19 
disease. The relevant articles were determined from the database search 
published mainly in Web of Science, Google scholar, PubMed, Crossref, and 
ClinicalTrials.gov database during the pandemic period. The articles were 
evaluated for the therapeutic potentials, mechanisms of action of cannabinoids, 
the roles of the ECS in the immune system, impact of cannabinoids in SARS-CoV-2 
septic, especially if they address the application of cannabinoids as drugs for 
the curability and management of SARS-CoV-2 and its novel variants. Although the 
evidence needed to be considered using cannabinoids in the control and treatment 
of viral diseases is currently in its infancy, they already offer an opportunity 
for clinicians due to their effects in relieving pain, improving appetite, and 
improving childhood epilepsy, especially in cancer and human immunodeficiency 
virus (HIV/AIDS) patients. In addition to these, the most recent scientific 
evidence emphasizes their use in the treatment of the coronavirus infected 
patients. In brief, all preclinic and clinic studies that have been reported 
show that, through the cannabinoid system, cannabinoids, particularly CBD, have 
many mechanisms that are effective in the treatment of patients infected by 
SARS-CoV-2. Thus, more extensive studies are necessary in this area to fully 
identify the effects of cannabinoids on SARS-CoV-2.

Copyright © 2021 The Author(s).

DOI: 10.3906/biy-2105-73
PMCID: PMC8573844
PMID: 34803455

Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICT OF INTEREST: none declared