[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: curcumin anti-inflammatory clinical trial randomiz | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: curcumin anti-inflammatory clinical trial randomized]

30. Phytother Res. 2022 Apr;36(4):1797-1806. doi: 10.1002/ptr.7422. Epub 2022 Feb
 17.

Effects of curcumin supplementation on metabolic parameters, inflammatory 
factors and obesity values in women with rheumatoid arthritis: A randomized, 
double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial.

Pourhabibi-Zarandi F(1)(2), Rafraf M(2), Zayeni H(3), Asghari-Jafarabadi 
M(4)(5), Ebrahimi AA(6)(7).

Author information:
(1)Student Research Committee, Faculty of Nutrition and Food Science, Tabriz 
University of Medical Sciences, Tabriz, Iran.
(2)Nutrition Research Center, Faculty of Nutrition and Food Science, Tabriz 
University of Medical Sciences, Tabriz, Iran.
(3)Guilan Rheumatology Research Center, Department of Rheumatology, Razi 
Hospital, School of Medicine, Guilan University of Medical Sciences, Rasht, 
Iran.
(4)Department of Statistics and Epidemiology, Faculty of Health, Tabriz 
University of Medical Sciences, Tabriz, Iran.
(5)Road Traffic Injury Research Center, Tabriz University of Medical Sciences, 
Tabriz, Iran.
(6)Connective Tissue Diseases Research Center, Tabriz University of Medical 
Sciences, Tabriz, Iran.
(7)Internal Medicine Department, Faculty of Medicine, Tabriz University of 
Medical Sciences, Tabriz, Iran.

Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a chronic inflammatory disease that leads to 
cartilage damage with mostly accompanied by metabolic disorders. This study 
aimed to investigate the effects of curcumin supplementation on metabolic 
parameters (lipid profile and glycemic indices), inflammatory factors, visfatin 
levels, and obesity values in women with RA. This randomized, double-blind, 
placebo-controlled clinical trial was conducted on 48 women with RA. The 
patients were treated with curcumin (500 mg once a day) or placebo for 8 weeks. 
Fasting blood samples, anthropometric measurements, dietary intakes, and 
physical activity levels of subjects were collected at baseline and the end of 
the study. Curcumin supplementation significantly decreased homeostatic model 
assessment for insulin resistance (HOMA-IR), erythrocyte sedimentation rate, 
serum levels of high-sensitivity C-reactive protein and triglycerides, weight, 
body mass index, and waist circumference of patients compared with the placebo 
at the end of the study (p < .05 for all). HOMA-IR and triglyceride levels 
significantly increased within the placebo group. Changes in fasting blood 
sugar, insulin, other lipids profile, and visfatin levels were not significant 
in any of the groups (p > .05). These results support the consumption of 
curcumin, as a part of an integrated approach to modulate metabolic factors, 
inflammation, and adiposity in women with RA.

© 2022 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/ptr.7422
PMID: 35178811 [Indexed for MEDLINE]