[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: magnetic resonance spectroscopy metabolite brain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: magnetic resonance spectroscopy metabolite brain]

5. Clin Perinatol. 1991 Sep;18(3):535-48.

Magnetic resonance spectroscopy.

Hope PL(1), Moorcraft J.

Author information:
(1)John Radcliffe Hospital, Oxford, England.

MRS is a noninvasive technique that does not use ionizing radiation and can be 
used to measure relative metabolite concentrations in human tissues and organs 
in vivo. Phosphorus MRS can be used to study energy metabolites and 
intracellular pH. The first neonatal applications were described in 1983 in a 
study of cerebral metabolism. Since then, the value of cerebral MRS as research 
tool and an investigative technique has been confirmed, and its prognostic power 
in asphyxiated infants has been established. Techniques of spatial localization 
and quantitation have been developed, but studies of other organs and the use of 
other nuclei remain at a very preliminary stage. Considering the huge potential 
of MRS and the proliferation of high field magnets primarily designed for 
imaging, there has been a disappointing lack of progress in the development of 
clinical and research applications of spectroscopy. The logistic differences of 
studying sick infants in strong magnetic fields make MRS a time-consuming and 
labor-intensive investigation, which will inevitably limit its widespread 
routine use. Research studies are hampered by the diversity of spectroscopic and 
signal processing techniques, which make comparisons of data from different 
groups impossible. Some techniques for the assessment of cerebral hemodynamics 
such as doppler ultrasound and near infrared spectroscopy have the advantage of 
being available at the cotside, but MRS is unique in providing quantitative 
information about a wide range of intracellular metabolites. The altricial 
development of MRS as a clinical investigative tool in neonatology can be 
ascribed partly to practical difficulties, but these should not detract from the 
exciting possibilities opened up by a technique that gives a noninvasive insight 
into intracellular chemistry. The metabolic information from MRS is an 
invaluable addition to the information provided by other techniques and will 
certainly play an important role in unraveling the sequence of events between an 
hypoxic-ischemic insult and cell death. A better understanding of these 
mechanisms is a prerequisite to the development of rational therapeutic 
maneuvers following asphyxial insults.

PMID: 1934854 [Indexed for MEDLINE]