[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Propulsion Mechanics | Topic: Review of Leading Approaches for Mitigating Hypersonic Vehic | Type: OpenAlex-OA | Level: Graduate]

[OpenAlex | Propulsion Engineering | Year: 2010 | Citations: 94]

Title: Review of Leading Approaches for Mitigating Hypersonic Vehicle Communications Blackout and a Method of Ceramic Particulate Injection Via Cathode Spot Arcs for Blackout Mitigation

Abstract:
Since its founding, NASA has been dedicated to the advancement of aeronautics and space science. The NASA Scientifi c and Technical Information (STI) program plays a key part in helping NASA maintain this important role. The NASA STI Program operates under the auspices of the Agency Chief Information Offi cer. It collects, organizes, provides for archiving, and disseminates NASA’s STI. The NASA STI program provides access to the NASA Aeronautics and Space Database and its public interface, the NASA Technical Reports Server, thus providing one of the largest collections of aeronautical and space science STI in the world. Results are published in both non-NASA channels and by NASA in the NASA STI Report Series, which includes the following report types: • TECHNICAL PUBLICATION. Reports of completed research or a major signifi cant phase of research that present the results of NASA programs and include extensive data or theoretical analysis. Includes compilations of signifi cant scientifi c and technical data and information deemed to be of continuing reference value. NASA counterpart of peer-reviewed formal professional papers but has less stringent limitations on manuscript length and extent of graphic presentations. • TECHNICAL MEMORANDUM. Scientifi c and technical fi ndings that are preliminary or of specialized interest, e.g., quick release reports, working papers, and bibliographies that contain minimal annotation. Does not contain extensive analysis. • CONTRACTOR REPORT. Scientifi c and technical fi ndings by NASA-sponsored contractors and grantees. • CONFERENCE PUBLICATION. Collected papers from scientifi c and technical conferences, symposia, seminars, or other meetings sponsored or cosponsored by NASA. • SPECIAL PUBLICATION. Scientifi c, technical, or historical information from