[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: photodynamic therapy cancer clinical trial | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: photodynamic therapy cancer clinical trial]

82. Adv Exp Med Biol. 2003;519:101-23. doi: 10.1007/0-306-47932-X_7.

HPMA copolymer delivery of chemotherapy and photodynamic therapy in ovarian 
cancer.

Peterson CM(1), Shiah JG, Sun Y, Kopecková P, Minko T, Straight RC, Kopecek J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Utah Center for Photo-Medicine, 
University of Utah, Veteran's Administration Medical Center, Salt Lake City, 
Utah, USA.

Our studies document a unique and unexpected advantage of the combination of 
HPMA copolymer bound doxorubicin with mesochlorin e6/photodynamic therapy in the 
treatment of ovarian cancer. Each drug's activity is individually enhanced when 
compared with free (low molecular weight) drugs, furthermore, in combination 
these HPMA copolymer bound agents act synergistically to create an unexpected 
biological effect. Figure 8 depicts the known activities of each agent which may 
play synergistic roles. HPMA copolymer-doxorubicin has been widely evaluated in 
preclinical and clinical studies. It demonstrates marked advantages over free 
doxorubicin: control of biodistribution and accumulation via molecular weight 
restrictions, biodegradability, minimal immunogenicity, subcellular 
localization, anticancer activity, enhanced permeability and retention, 
increased apoptosis, lipid peroxidation, DNA damage, and reduced nonspecific 
toxicity. Recent clinical trials in the UK provide "proof of principle" of the 
"enhanced permeability and retention effect" for solid tumors and the unique 
advantages of this novel drug delivery system for the treatment of ovarian 
cancer. With regards to photodynamic therapy using the photosensitizer 
mesochlorin e6, the preclinical evaluations thus far document: control of 
biodistribution and accumulation via molecular weight restrictions, 
biodegradability, subcellular localization, anticancer activity, enhanced 
permeability and retention, and reduced nonspecific toxicity. Ongoing microarray 
studies document unique cellular pathways and new pharmaceutical properties 
which are initiated by the HPMA copolymer delivery delivery of these agents, and 
predict an exciting future for this novel drug delivery system.

DOI: 10.1007/0-306-47932-X_7
PMID: 12675211 [Indexed for MEDLINE]