[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS neurology | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS neurology]

62. Biomed Pap Med Fac Univ Palacky Olomouc Czech Repub. 2010 Jun;154(2):133-9.
doi:  10.5507/bp.2010.020.

Transcranial magnetic stimulation of the cerebellum.

Minks E(1), Kopickova M, Marecek R, Streitova H, Bares M.

Author information:
(1)First Department of Neurology, St. Anne's University Hospital, Masaryk 
University, Brno, Czech Republic. eduard.minks@fnusa.cz

INTRODUCTION: The cerebellum is a very complex structure with many 
motor/non-motor functions and direct and indirect connections with almost the 
entire central nervous system. Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) is a 
non-invasive electrophysiological method for studying, diagnosing, and treating 
disorders of the nervous system. The aim of the present review is to summarise 
the research and potential clinical uses of cerebellar TMS.
METHODS: PubMed literature search using the key words "cerebellum TMS".
RESULTS: TMS of the cerebellum is used in two types of protocols. The first type 
involves the separate stimulation of the cerebellum while tracking its clinical 
or electrophysiological influence on motor and non-motor functions. The second 
involves stimulation of the cerebellum as a conditioning stimulus before 
stimulating the motor cortex, to monitor the electrophysiological impact of 
cerebellar stimulation on the motor cortex. Most studies are performed on small 
groups of healthy volunteers; isolated studies are performed on patients with 
neurological disorders (spinocerebellar ataxia, migraine, dystonia, Miller 
Fisher syndrome). It has been shown that cerebellar TMS is able to influence 
motor systems, memory, and perception of time, and there is evidence of its 
electrophysiological effects in the frontal cortex.
CONCLUSION: Published studies suggest that cerebellar TMS is currently only 
important in research. There is not yet any clear or reliable evidence of the 
therapeutic effects of cerebellar TMS. However, its use as a treatment method 
can be anticipated.

DOI: 10.5507/bp.2010.020
PMID: 20668494 [Indexed for MEDLINE]