[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: natural product antibiotic drug discovery | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: natural product antibiotic drug discovery]

39. Arch Microbiol. 2024 Oct 22;206(11):442. doi: 10.1007/s00203-024-04169-z.

Endophytic Streptomyces: an underexplored source with potential for novel 
natural drug discovery and development.

Sivalingam P(1), Easwaran M(2), Ganapathy D(2), Basha SF(3), Poté J(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Research and Analytics (DORA), Saveetha Dental College and 
Hospital, Saveetha Institute of Medical and Technical Sciences (SIMATS), 
Saveetha University, Chennai, 600077, Tamil Nadu, India. Biosivas@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Research and Analytics (DORA), Saveetha Dental College and 
Hospital, Saveetha Institute of Medical and Technical Sciences (SIMATS), 
Saveetha University, Chennai, 600077, Tamil Nadu, India.
(3)PG and Research Department of Chemistry, Jamal Mohamed College (Autonomous) 
(Affiliated to Bharathidasan University), Tamil Nadu, Tiruchchirappalli, 620 
020, India.
(4)Faculty of Sciences, Earth and Environmental Sciences, Institute F. A. Forel 
and Institute of Environmental Sciences, University of Geneva, Bd Carl-Vogt 66, 
CH-1211, Geneva 4, Switzerland.

Streptomyces has long been considered as key sources for natural compounds 
discovery in medicine and agriculture. These compounds have been demonstrated to 
possess different biological activities, including antibiotic, antifungal, 
anticancer, and antiviral effects. As a result, new pharmaceuticals and 
antibiotics have been developed. Nevertheless, there have been only a few novel 
discoveries of bioactive compounds in the past decades from Streptomyces in 
natural habitats. There is, therefore, now a renewed search for new Streptomyces 
species having the potential to produce many compounds from one strain in lesser 
explored natural habitats that may be helpful in fighting diseases. 
Consequently, modern genome mining approaches are imperative for discovering 
structurally novel natural compounds with therapeutic applications from untapped 
sources. In light of these facts, endophytic Streptomyces from plants may offer 
new avenues for the discovery of bioactive compounds with distinctive chemical 
properties and activities. In the present review, we present the progress made 
in isolating natural compounds from endophytic Streptomyces originating from 
plants which have remarkable antimicrobial, cytotoxic, and antifungal 
properties. A different of distinct structural classes of compounds were 
reported from endophytic Streptomyces, such as indolosequiterpene, macrolides, 
flavones, peptides, naphthoquinones, and terpenoids. Further, we discussed 
modern genomics progress in finding biosynthetic gene clusters (BGCs) encoding 
compounds. Overall, this review might provide valuable insights into the 
potential for novel drug discovery from untapped endophytic Streptomyces in the 
future.

© 2024. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, 
part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s00203-024-04169-z
PMID: 39436470 [Indexed for MEDLINE]