[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Propulsion Mechanics | Topic: Hydrogen-powered aircraft | Type: Instruction-QA | Level: Graduate]

Question: Provide a comprehensive expert-level explanation of Hydrogen-powered aircraft in the context of Applied Sciences.

Answer:
A hydrogen-powered aircraft is an aeroplane that uses hydrogen fuel as a power source. Hydrogen can either be burned in a jet engine or another kind of internal combustion engine, or can be used to power a fuel cell to generate electricity to power an electric propulsor. It cannot be stored in a traditional wet wing, and hydrogen tanks have to be housed in the fuselage or be supported by the wing. 

Hydrogen, which can be produced from low-carbon power and can produce zero emissions, can reduce the environmental impact of aviation. Boeing acknowledges the technology potential and Airbus plans to launch a first commercial hydrogen-powered aircraft by 2035. McKinsey & Company forecast hydrogen aircraft entering the market in the late 2030s and scaling up through 2050, when they could account for a third of aviation's energy demand.

Considerable added electrical generation would be needed as the jet fuel energy consumed in 2019 represented 14% of the world’s electricity; and generating the power needed, producing, liquefying and distributing the hydrogen would cost several trillion dollars.
MIT's Alan H. Epstein considers investments would be better spent on sustainable aviation fuel than on hydrogen aircraft.

Hydrogen properties

Hydrogen has a specific energy of 119.9 MJ/kg, compared to ~ MJ/kg for usual liquid fuels,  times higher.
However, it has an energy density of 10.05 kJ/L at normal atmospheric pressure and temperature, compared to ~ kJ/L for liquid fuels,  times lower.
When pressurised to , it reaches 4,500 kJ/L, still  times lower than liquid fuels.
Cooled at , liquid hydrogen has an energy density of 8,491 kJ/L,  times lower than liquid fuels.

Aircraft design
The low volumetric energy density of hydrogen poses challenges when designing an aircraft, where weight and volume are critical. To reduce the size of the tanks liquid hydrogen may be used, requiring cryogenic fuel tanks. Cylindrical tanks minimise surface for minimal thermal insulation weight, leading towards tanks in the fuselage rather than wet wings in conventional aircraft. Airplane volume and drag would be significantly increased by three times larger fuel tanks, highly insulated and spherical or cylindrical. A larger fuselage would add more skin friction drag and wave drag due to the extra wetted area; extra tank weight; and weight and balance variations during flight.

Gaseous hydrogen may be used for short-haul aircraft. Liquid hydrogen might be needed for long-haul aircraft.

Hydrogen's high specific energy means it would need less fuel weight for the same range, ignoring the repercussion of added volume and tank weight. As airliners have a fuel fraction of the Maximum Takeoff Weight MTOW between 26% for medium-haul to 45% for long-haul, maximum fuel weight could be reduced to % to % of the MTOW, but this would be the case only for the unusual maximum fuel case of the payload-range tradeoff.

Fuel cells would make sense only for general aviation and small commuter aircraft as their engine efficiency is less than half of large gas turbines, but not for usual single or twin-aisle airliners.

The efficiency of a hydrogen-fueled aircraft is a trade-off of the larger wetted area, lower fuel weight and added tank weight, varying with the aircraft size. Hydrogen is better suited for short range airliners, while longer ranges may need new aircraft designs such as blended wing body.

Liquid hydrogen is one of the best coolants used in engineering, and precooled jet engines have been proposed to use this property for cooling the intake air of hypersonic aircraft, or even for cooling the aircraft's skin itself, particularly for scramjet-powered aircraft.

Emissions and environmental impact 

Hydrogen aircraft using a fuel cell design are zero emission in operation, whereas aircraft using hydrogen as a fuel for a jet engine or an internal combustion engine are zero emission for  (a greenhouse gas which contributes to global climate change) but not for  (a local air pollutant). The burning of hydrogen in air leads to the production of , i.e., the  + ½ →  reaction in a nitrogen-rich environment also causes the production of . However, hydrogen combustion produces up to 90% less nitrogen oxides than kerosene fuel, and it eliminates the formation of particulate matter.

If hydrogen is available in quantity from low-carbon power such as wind or nuclear, its use in aircraft will produce fewer greenhouse gases than current aircraft: water vapor and a small amount of nitrogen oxide. Currently very little hydrogen is produced using low-carbon energy sources.

A 2020 study by the EU Clean Sky 2 and Fuel Cells and Hydrogen 2 Joint Undertakings found that hydrogen could power aircraft by 2035 for short-range aircraft. A short-range aircraft (< ) with hybrid Fuel cell/Turbines could reduce climate impact by 70–80% for a 20–30% additional cost, a medium-range airliner with H2 turbines could have a 50–60% reduced climate impact for a 30–40% overcost, and a long-range aircraft (> ) also with H2 turbines could reduce climate impact by 40–50% for a 40–50% additional cost. Research and development would be required, in aircraft technology and into hydrogen infrastructure, regulations and certification standards.

History

Demonstrations 

In February 1957, a Martin B-57B of the NACA flew on hydrogen for 20 min for one of its two Wright J65 engines rather than jet fuel. On 15 April 1988, the Tu-155 first flew as the first hydrogen-powered experimental aircraft, an adapted Tu-154 airliner.

Boeing converted a two-seat Diamond DA20 to run on a fuel cell designed and built by Intelligent Energy. It first flew on April 3, 2008. The Antares DLR-H2 is a hydrogen-powered aeroplane from Lange Aviation and the German aerospace center. In July 2010, Boeing unveiled its hydrogen powered Phantom Eye UAV, that uses two converted Ford Motor Company piston engines.

In 2010, the Rapid 200FC concluded six flight tests fueled by gaseous hydrogen.
The aircraft