[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS neurology | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS neurology]

16. Cerebellum. 2023 Jun;22(3):332-347. doi: 10.1007/s12311-022-01396-2. Epub
2022  Mar 31.

Cerebellar Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation (TMS) Impairs Visual Working 
Memory.

Viñas-Guasch N(1), Ng THB(2), Heng JG(1)(3), Chan YC(4)(5), Chew E(5)(6), 
Desmond JE(7), Chen SHA(8)(9)(10)(11).

Author information:
(1)Psychology, School of Social Sciences, Nanyang Technological University, 
Singapore, Singapore.
(2)National Institute of Education, Nanyang Technological University, Singapore, 
Singapore.
(3)School of Computer Science and Engineering, Nanyang Technological University, 
Singapore, Singapore.
(4)Division of Neurology, University Medicine Cluster, National University 
Health System, Singapore, Singapore.
(5)Department of Medicine, Yong Loo Lin School of Medicine, National University 
of Singapore, Singapore, Singapore.
(6)Division of Rehabilitation Medicine, Department of Medicine, National 
University Health System, Singapore, Singapore.
(7)The Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, USA.
(8)Psychology, School of Social Sciences, Nanyang Technological University, 
Singapore, Singapore. annabelchen@ntu.edu.sg.
(9)National Institute of Education, Nanyang Technological University, Singapore, 
Singapore. annabelchen@ntu.edu.sg.
(10)Centre for Research and Development in Learning (CRADLE), Nanyang 
Technological University, Singapore, Singapore. annabelchen@ntu.edu.sg.
(11)Lee Kong Chian School of Medicine (LKCMedicine), Nanyang Technological 
University, Singapore, Singapore. annabelchen@ntu.edu.sg.

An increasing body of evidence points to the involvement of the cerebellum in 
cognition. Specifically, previous studies have shown that the superior and 
inferior portions of the cerebellum are involved in different verbal working 
memory (WM) mechanisms as part of two separate cerebro-cerebellar loops for 
articulatory rehearsal and phonological storage mechanisms. In comparison, our 
understanding of the involvement of the cerebellum in visual WM remains limited. 
We have previously shown that performance in verbal WM is disrupted by 
single-pulse transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) of the right superior 
cerebellum. The present study aimed to expand on this notion by exploring 
whether the inferior cerebellum is similarly involved in visual WM. Here, we 
used fMRI-guided, double-pulse TMS to probe the necessity of left superior and 
left inferior cerebellum in visual WM. We first conducted an fMRI localizer 
using the Sternberg visual WM task, which yielded targets in left superior and 
inferior cerebellum. Subsequently, TMS stimulation of these regions at the end 
of the encoding phase resulted in decreased accuracy in the visual WM task. 
Differences in the visual WM deficits caused by stimulation of superior and 
inferior left cerebellum raise the possibility that these regions are involved 
in different stages of visual WM.

© 2022. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s12311-022-01396-2
PMCID: PMC9522915
PMID: 35355219 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure Statement The authors report no 
conflict of interest.