[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: Landau quantization | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Landau quantization — Overview

the mean thermal energy is smaller than the energy level separation, , meaning low temperatures and strong magnetic fields. Each Landau level is degenerate because of the second quantum number , which can take the values where is an integer. The allowed values of are further restricted by the condition that the center of force of the oscillator, , must physically lie within the system, . This gives the following range for ,

For particles with charge , the upper bound on  can be simply written as a ratio of fluxes,

where  is the fundamental magnetic flux quantum and  is the flux through the system (with area ). Thus, for particles with spin , the maximum number  of particles per Landau level is

which for electrons (where  and ) gives , two available states for each flux quantum that penetrates the system. The above gives only a rough idea of the effects of finite-size geometry. Strictly speaking, using the standard solution of the harmonic oscillator is only valid for systems unbounded in the -direction (infinite strips). If the size  is finite, boundary conditions in that direction give rise to non-standard quantization conditions on the magnetic field, involving (in principle) both solutions to the Hermite equation. The filling of these levels with many electrons is still an active area of research. In general, Landau levels are observed in electronic systems. As the magnetic field is increased, more and more electrons can fit into a given Landau level. The occupation of the highest Landau level ranges from completely full to entirely empty, leading to oscillations in various electronic properties (see De Haas–Van Alphen effect and Shubnikov–de Haas effect). If Zeeman splitting is included, each Landau level splits into a pair, one for spin up electrons and the other for spin down electrons. Then the occupation of each spin Landau level is just the ratio of fluxes . Zeeman splitting has a significant effect on the Landau levels because their energy scales are the same, . However, the Fermi energy and ground state energy stay roughly the same in a system with many filled levels, since pairs of split energy levels cancel each other out when summed. Moreover, the above derivation in the Landau gauge assumed an electron confined in the -direction, which is a relevant experimental situation — found in two-dimensional electron gases, for instance. Still, this assumption is not essential for the results. If electrons are free to move along the  direction, the wave function acquires an additional multiplicative term ; the energy corresponding to this free motion, , is added to the  discussed. This term then fills in the separation in energy of the different Landau levels, blurring the effect of the quantization. Nevertheless, the motion in the --plane, perpendicular to the magnetic field, is still quantized. In the symmetric gauge 
Each Landau level has degenerate orbitals labeled by the quantum numbers  in symmetric gauge. The degeneracy per unit area is the same in each Landau level. The z component of angular momentum is

Exploiting the property  we chose eigenfunctions which diagonalize  and , The eigenvalue of  is denoted by , where it is clear that  in the th Landau level. However, it may be arbitrarily large, which is necessary to obtain the infinite degeneracy (or finite degeneracy per unit area) exhibited by the system. Relativistic case 

An electron following Dirac equation under a constant magnetic field, can be analytically solved. The energies are given by

where c is the speed of light, the sign depends on the particle-antiparticle component and ν is a non-negative integer. Due to spin, all levels are degenerate except for the ground state at . The massless 2D case can be simulated in single-layer materials like graphene near the Dirac cones, where the eigenergies are given by 

where the speed of light has to be replaced with the Fermi speed vF of the material and the minus sign corresponds to electron holes. Magnetic susceptibility of a Fermi gas
The Fermi gas (an ensemble of non-interacting fermions) is part of the basis for understanding of the thermodynamic properties of metals. In 1930 Landau derived an estimate for the magnetic susceptibility of a Fermi gas, known as Landau susceptibility, which is constant for small magnetic fields. Landau also noticed that the susceptibility oscillates with high frequency for large magnetic fields, this physical phenomenon is known as the De Haas–Van Alphen effect. Two-dimensional lattice 

The tight binding energy spectrum of charged particles in a two dimensional infinite lattice is known to be self-similar and fractal, as demonstrated in Hofstadter's butterfly. For an integer ratio of the magnetic flux quantum and the magnetic flux through a lattice cell, one recovers the Landau levels for large integers. Integer quantum Hall effect 

The energy spectrum of the semiconductor in a strong magnetic field forms Landau levels that can be labeled by integer indices.