[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Complex Circuit Systems | Topic: Valve RF amplifier | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Valve RF amplifier — Overview

done in a linear manner, this modulated amplifier is capable of low distortion. The output signal can be viewed as a product of the input signal and the modulating signal. The development of broadcasting improved fidelity by using a greater bandwidth which was available in the range, and where atmospheric noise was absent. also has an inherent ability to reject noise, which is mostly amplitude modulated. Valve technology suffers high-frequency limitations due to cathode-anode transit time. However, tetrodes are successfully used into the  range and triodes into the low GHz range. Modern  broadcast transmitters use both valve and solid state devices, with valves tending to be more used at the highest power levels. transmitters operate class C with very low distortion. Today's digital radio that carries coded data over various phase modulations (such as , , etc.) and also the increasing demand for spectrum have forced a dramatic change in the way radio is used, e.g. the cellular radio concept. Today's cellular radio and digital broadcast standards are extremely demanding in terms of the spectral envelope and out of band emissions that are acceptable (in the case of  for example, −70 dB or better just a few hundred kilohertz from center frequency). Digital transmitters must therefore operate in the linear modes, with much attention given to achieving low distortion. Applications

Historic transmitters and receivers 
(High voltage/high power)
Valve stages were used to amplify the received radio frequency signals, the intermediate frequencies, the video signal and the audio signals at the various points in the receiver. Historically (pre WWII) "transmitting tubes" were among the most powerful tubes available, were usually direct heated by thoriated filaments that glowed like light bulbs. Some tubes were built to be very rugged, capable of being driven so hard that the anode would itself glow cherry red, the anodes being machined from solid material (rather than fabricated from thin sheet) to be able to withstand this without distorting when heated. Notable tubes of this type are the 845 and 211. Later beam power tubes such as the 807 and (direct heated) 813 were also used in large numbers in (especially military) radio transmitters. Bandwidth of valve vs solid state amplifiers 
Today, radio transmitters are overwhelmingly solid state, even at microwave frequencies (cellular radio base stations). Depending on the application, a fair number of radio frequency amplifiers continue to have valve construction, due to their simplicity, where as, it takes several output transistors with complex splitting and combining circuits to equal the same amount of output power of a single valve. Valve amplifier circuits are significantly different from broadband solid state circuits. Solid state devices have a very low output impedance which allows matching via a broadband transformer covering a large range of frequencies, for example 1.8 to 30 MHz. With either class C or AB operation, these must include low pass filters to remove harmonics. While the proper low pass filter must be switch selected for the frequency range of interest, the result is considered to be a "no tune" design. Valve amplifiers have a tuned network that serves as both the low pass harmonic filter and impedance matching to the output load. In either case, both solid state and valve devices need such filtering networks before the RF signal is output to the load. Radio circuits 

Unlike audio amplifiers, in which the analog output signal is of the same form and frequency as the input signal, RF circuits may modulate low frequency information (audio, video, or data) onto a carrier (at a much higher frequency), and the circuitry comprises several distinct stages. For example, a radio transmitter may contain:

an audio frequency (AF) stage (typically using conventional broadband small signal circuitry as described in Valve audio amplifier,
one or more oscillator stages that generate the carrier wave,
one or more mixer stages that modulate the carrier signal from the oscillator,
the amplifier stage itself operating at (typically) high frequency. the Transmitter power amp itself is the only high power stage in a radio system, and operates at the carrier frequency. In AM, the modulation (frequency mixing) usually takes place in the final amplifier itself. Transmitter anode circuits 
The most common anode circuit is a tuned LC circuit where the anodes are connected at a voltage node. This circuit is often known as the anode tank circuit. Active (or tuned grid) amplifier 

An example of this used at VHF/UHF include the 4CX250B, an example of a twin tetrode is the QQV06/40A. Neutralization is a term used in TGTP (tuned grid tuned plate) amplifiers for the methods and circuits used for stabilization against unwanted oscillations at the operating frequency caused by the inadvertent introduction of some of the output signal back into the input circuits. This mainly occurs via the grid to plate capacity, but can also come via other paths, making circuit layout important.