[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: List of EastEnders characters (2004) | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# List of EastEnders characters (2004) — Overview

Cowper) brother. Clint first arrives in his old ice cream van, loaded with all the Millers' possessions. The ice cream van bears the somewhat dubious logo of Clint's Creamy Whip. He comes to Walford to help out his family whenever they need him. He is also seen when Mike Swann (Mark Wingett), Rosie's ex-husband, is staying with the Millers and Keith (David Spinx) needs some support. His last appearance is when he helps Rosie to move back out of the Square. Clint's ice cream van however makes a reappearance around August bank holiday 2007. Clint is on holiday so Mickey and Keith are left to mind the van. They use the van to sell ice creams to fund a DIY project of painting Summer Swann's nursery. Eventually, Clint gives the van to his nephew Darren (Charlie G. Hawkins). Rosie Miller

Rosie Miller , played by Gerry Cowper, Her first appearance is 9 September 2004 and she was axed in 2006, with her final scenes airing in July 2006. Rosie is the mother of Mickey Miller (Joe Swash), Dawn Swann (Kara Tointon), Demi Miller (Shana Swash) and Darren Miller (Charlie G. Hawkins). Described as "hardworking", she is heavily protective over her family and makes enemies such as Pauline Fowler (Wendy Richard). Tommy Grant

Tommy Grant, played by Robert Cavanah, is the much older boyfriend of Vicki Fowler (Scarlett Johnson) who is attracted to Vicki's stepmother Chrissie Watts (Tracy-Ann Oberman). They kiss and Tommy arranges for them to meet in the toilets in the Queen Victoria pub. He strips naked and Chrissie steals his clothes, exposing him (as a cheat, and literally exposing him). He then runs away through the market, naked. The next day, as he gets into a taxi to the airport, Vicki's father Den Watts (Leslie Grantham) gets into the taxi with him and takes him to Angie's Den night club, where he pins him down and warns him to leave Walford and never return. Tommy now lives in Thailand. Ray Taylor

Ray Taylor, played by Dorian Lough, is the abusive father of Leo (Philip Dowling) and husband of Trisha (Cathy Murphy). He hates Keith Miller (David Spinx) from a business deal-gone-wrong, and so is horrified when Keith's daughter Demi (Shana Swash) gives birth to Leo's daughter, Aleesha (Freya and Phoebe Coltman-West). He bans Leo from having contact with the Millers, and drags Leo and Trisha from the church when they attend Aleesha's christening. When Trisha and Ray plan to move away to Scotland with Leo, he runs away with Demi and Aleesha. Leo takes a heroin overdose just before they are found, and Ray is last seen at the hospital when Leo dies from the overdose. Aleesha Miller

Aleesha Miller is born on the show on 29 October 2004, and is played by twins Freya and Phoebe Coltman-West. Aleesha is the infant daughter of teenagers Demi Miller (Shana Swash) and Leo Taylor (Philip Dowling). Aleesha's godparents are Demi's older brother Mickey Miller (Joe Swash) and Pauline Fowler (Wendy Richard), whose heart softens towards Demi' family after accompanying Demi to hospital for Aleesha's birth. Aleesha is the centre of an ongoing feud between Demi's parents Keith and Rosie Miller (Gerry Cowper) and Leo's parents Ray and Trisha Taylor, with she, Demi and Leo bear the brunt of the turmoil. Demi and Leo take her with them when they run away together. They leave her with Pauline when they have to move into a squat. This leads to Leo's death from a heroin overdose, when Demi takes some heroin to numb her pain and Leo overdoses because he thinks she is dead. Aleesha leaves Walford with Rosie and Demi in July 2006 to live in the Cotswolds. Leo Taylor

Leo Taylor, played by Philip Dowling, is Demi Miller's (Shana Swash) boyfriend. He first appears in October 2004 visiting his and Demi's new born baby daughter Aleesha (Freya and Phoebe Coltman-West). In May 2005, the Millers return to their former home in a block of flats whilst a rat problem in the square is being dealt with. Demi is reluctant, as it means she is likely to see Leo. Upon their arrival, Leo's father Ray (Dorian Lough) and his wife Trisha (Cathy Murphy) are the first people they see, and they receive a cold reception. Whilst taking Aleesha for a walk, Demi is teased by some of her brother Darren's (Charlie G. Hawkins) old friends, who mock her and refer to her as "Vicky Pollard". Upon heading back to the flats, Demi sees Leo and tries to escape in a lift, but Leo stops her. They realise their split had been due to their parents meddling and denying contact between the two, and they reunite. Demi tells Leo that it is Aleesha's christening the following day. Despite appearing reluctant, Leo and Trisha attend the christening, however the service is interrupted by Ray, who viciously drags his wife and son away whilst a heartbroken Demi looks on. The christening continues back at Clint's (Huggy Leaver) flat, and Demi and Leo meet later that evening from their balconies. As the feud between the Millers and the Taylors escalates, Leo plans to run away, and begs Demi to come with him.