[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: magnetic resonance spectroscopy metabolite brain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: magnetic resonance spectroscopy metabolite brain]

41. Magn Reson Med. 2018 Dec;80(6):2326-2338. doi: 10.1002/mrm.27222. Epub 2018
Apr  24.

Diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance spectroscopy boosted by simultaneously 
acquired water reference signals.

Döring A(1)(2), Adalid V(1)(2), Boesch C(1), Kreis R(1).

Author information:
(1)Departments of Radiology and Biomedical Research, University of Bern, Bern, 
Switzerland.
(2)Graduate School for Cellular and Biomedical Sciences, University of Bern, 
Bern, Switzerland.

PURPOSE: To combine the metabolite-cycling technique with diffusion-weighted 1 
H-MR spectroscopy and to use the inherent water reference for compensation of 
motion-related signal loss for improved estimation of metabolite apparent 
diffusion coefficients (ADCs).
METHODS: Diffusion-weighted spectra of water and metabolites were acquired 
simultaneously using metabolite-cycling at 3 T. The water information was used 
for signal correction of phase, frequency, and eddy currents, as well as for 
compensation of motion-induced signal loss. ADCs were estimated by 2D 
simultaneous fitting. The quality of ADC restoration was investigated in vitro. 
Subsequently, the new approach was applied in 13 subjects for enhanced 
metabolite ADC estimation in gray matter.
RESULTS: Metabolite-cycled diffusion 1 H-MRS is suitable to measure metabolite 
and water ADCs simultaneously. The water reference facilitates signal amplitude 
restoration, compensating for motion-related artefacts. 2D fitting stabilizes 
the fitting procedure and allows the estimation of ADCs even for low 
signal-to-noise metabolites. Use of the motion-compensation scheme leads to 
estimation of smaller ADCs for virtually all metabolites (44% smaller ADC on 
average), to a reduction of fitting uncertainties for metabolite ADCs in 
individual subjects and reduced variance over the cohort (45% smaller SD on 
average).
CONCLUSION: Using the simultaneously acquired water signal as internal reference 
allows not only for compensation of phase and frequency fluctuations but also 
for signal amplitude restoration, and thus improved metabolite ADC estimation. 
Combination with 2D simultaneous fitting promises access to the diffusion 
properties even for low signal-to-noise metabolites. The combination of both 
techniques increases the specificity and sensitivity of estimated metabolite ADC 
values in the cohort.

© 2018 International Society for Magnetic Resonance in Medicine.

DOI: 10.1002/mrm.27222
PMID: 29687927 [Indexed for MEDLINE]