[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: Split-ring resonator | Type: Instruction-QA | Level: Graduate]

Question: Provide a comprehensive expert-level explanation of Split-ring resonator in the context of Applied Sciences.

Answer:
A split-ring resonator (SRR) is an artificially produced structure common to metamaterials. Its purpose is to produce the desired magnetic susceptibility (magnetic response) in various types of metamaterials up to 200 terahertz.

These media create the necessary strong magnetic coupling to an applied electromagnetic field not otherwise available in conventional materials. For example, an effect such as negative permeability is produced with a periodic array of split ring resonators.

A single cell SRR has a pair of enclosed loops with splits in them at opposite ends. The loops are made of nonmagnetic metal like copper and have a small gap between them. The loops can be concentric or square, and gapped as needed. A magnetic flux penetrating the metal rings will induce rotating currents in the rings, which produce their own flux to enhance or oppose the incident field (depending on the SRR resonant properties). This field pattern is dipolar. The small gaps between the rings produces large capacitance values which lowers the resonating frequency. Hence the dimensions of the structure are small compared to the resonant wavelength. This results in low radiative losses and very high quality factors.

Background

Split ring resonators (SRRs) consist of a pair of concentric metallic rings, etched on a dielectric substrate, with slits etched on opposite sides. SRRs can produce an effect of being electrically smaller when responding to an oscillating electromagnetic field.  These resonators have been used for the synthesis of left-handed and negative refractive index media, where the necessary value of the negative effective permeability is due to the presence of the SRRs. When an array of electrically small SRRs is excited by means of a time varying magnetic field, the structure behaves as an effective medium with negative effective permeability in a narrow band above SRR resonance. SRRs have also been coupled to planar transmission lines, for the synthesis of metamaterials transmission line .

The split ring resonator was a microstructure design featured in the paper by Pendry et al in 1999 called, "Magnetism from Conductors and Enhanced Nonlinear Phenomena". It proposed that the split ring resonator design, built out of nonmagnetic material, could enhance the magnetic activity unseen in natural materials. In the simple microstructure design, it is shown that in an array of conducting cylinders, with an applied external  field parallel to the cylinders, the effective permeability can be written as the following. (This model is very limited and the effective permeability cannot be less than zero or greater than one.)

Where  is the resistance of the cylinder surface per unit area, a is the spacing of the cylinders,  is the angular frequency,  is the permeability of free space and r is the radius. Moreover, when gaps are introduced to a double cylinder design similar to the image above, we see that the gaps produce a capacitance. This capacitor and inductor microstructure design introduces a resonance that amplifies the magnetic effect. The new form of the effective permeability resembles a familiar response known in plasmonic materials.

Where d is the spacing of the concentric conducting sheets. The final design replaces the double concentric cylinders with a pair of flat concentric c-shaped sheets, placed on each side of a unit cell. The unit cells are stacked on top of each other by a length, l. The final result of the effective permeability can be seen below.

where c is the thickness of the c-shaped sheet and  is the resistance of unit length of the sheets measured around the circumference.

Characteristics
The split ring resonator and the metamaterial itself are composite materials. Each SRR has an individual tailored response to the electromagnetic field. However, the periodic construction of many SRR cells is such that the electromagnetic wave interacts as if these were homogeneous materials. This is similar to how light actually interacts with everyday materials; materials such as glass or lenses are made of atoms, an averaging or macroscopic effect is produced.

The SRR is designed to mimic the magnetic response of atoms, only on a much larger scale. Also, as part of periodic composite structure these are designed to have a stronger magnetic coupling than is found in nature. The larger scale allows for more control over the magnetic response, while each unit is smaller than the radiated electromagnetic wave.

SRRs are much more active than ferromagnetic materials found in nature. The pronounced magnetic response in such lightweight materials demonstrates an advantage over heavier, naturally occurring materials. Each unit can be designed to have its own magnetic response. The response can be enhanced or lessened as desired. In addition, the overall effect reduces power requirements.

SRR configuration
There are a variety of split-ring resonators and periodic structures: rod-split-rings, nested split-rings, single split rings, deformed split-rings, spiral split-rings, and extended S-structures. The variations of split ring resonators have achieved different results, including smaller and higher frequency structures. The research which involves some of these types are discussed throughout the article.

To date (December 2009) the capability for desired results in the visible spectrum has not been achieved. However, in 2005 it was noted that, physically, a nested circular split-ring resonator must have an inner radius of 30 to 40 nanometers for success in the mid-range of the visible spectrum. Microfabrication and nanofabrication techniques may utilize direct laser beam writing or electron beam lithography depending on the desired resolution.

Various configurations

Split-ring resonators (SRR) are one of the most common elements used to fabricate metamaterials. Split-ring resonators are non-magnetic materials, which initially were fabricated from circuit board material to create metamateri