[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: photodynamic therapy cancer clinical trial | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: photodynamic therapy cancer clinical trial]

20. Neurosurgery. 2019 Jun 1;84(6):E414-E419. doi: 10.1093/neuros/nyy324.

INtraoperative photoDYnamic Therapy for GliOblastomas (INDYGO): Study Protocol 
for a Phase I Clinical Trial.

Dupont C(1), Vermandel M(1)(2), Leroy HA(1)(2), Quidet M(1)(2), Lecomte F(1), 
Delhem N(3), Mordon S(1), Reyns N(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)University of Lille, Inserm, CHU Lille, ONCO-THAI - Image Assisted Laser 
Therapy for Oncology, Lille, France.
(2)Department of Neurosurgery, University of Lille, CHU Lille, Lille, France.
(3)Institut de biologie de Lille, Institut Pasteur de Lille, University of 
Lille, CNRS, Lille, France.

BACKGROUND: Glioblastoma (GBM) is characterized by marked proliferation, major 
infiltration, and poor prognosis. Despite current treatments, including surgery, 
radiation oncology, and chemotherapy, the overall median survival is 15 mo and 
the progression-free survival is 7 to 8 mo. Because of systematic relapse of the 
tumor, the improvement of local control remains an issue. In this context, 
photodynamic therapy (PDT) may offer a new treatment modality for GBM.
OBJECTIVE: To assess the feasibility of intraoperative PDT early after surgical 
resection of GBM without unacceptable and unexpected toxicities.
METHODS: The INDYGO clinical trial (INtraoperative photoDYnamic Therapy for 
GliOblastomas) treatment will be carried out in addition to the current standard 
of care (SOC) of glioblastoma: maximum resection surgery followed by concomitant 
radio-chemotherapy and adjuvant chemotherapy. PDT treatment will be delivered 
during surgery early, after the fluorescence-guided resection. Immunological 
responses and biomarkers will also be investigated during the follow-up. A total 
of 10 patients will be recruited during this study.
EXPECTED OUTCOMES: Clinical follow-up after the SOC with PDT is expected to be 
similar (no significant difference) to the SOC alone.
DISCUSSION: This INDYGO trial assesses the feasibility of intraoperative 
5-aminolevulinic acid PDT, a novel seamless approach to treat GBM. The 
technology is easily embeddable within the reference treatment at a 
low-incremental cost. The safety of this new treatment modality is a preliminary 
requirement before a multicenter randomized clinical trial can be further 
conducted to assess local control improvement by treating infiltrating and 
nonresected GBM cells.

Copyright © 2018 by the Congress of Neurological Surgeons.

DOI: 10.1093/neuros/nyy324
PMID: 30053213 [Indexed for MEDLINE]