[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: Priscilla, Queen of the Desert (musical) | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Priscilla, Queen of the Desert (musical) — Overview

as Marion, Jacqui Sanchez as Cynthia, and Kevin Yates as Miss Understanding. This version of the show was produced by Jason Donovan and includes new designs by Phil R Daniels and Charles Cusick Smith, lighting by Ben Cracknell, sound by Ben Harrison, musical supervision by Stephen 'Spud' Murphy and Richard Weeden, musical direction by Sean Green, choreography by Tom Jackson-Greaves, and direction by Ian Talbot OBE. On 15 March 2020, the tour was suspended due to the COVID-19 pandemic and did not reopen until 21 June 2021, having its final performance on 6 November 2021 at the Theatre Royal, Glasgow. Linz (2022)
A a non-replica production ran from 1 January to 10 June 2022 at the Landestheater, Linz, with Karsten Kenzel as Tick/Mitzi, David Arnsperger as Bernadette and Gernot Romic as Adam/Felicia. Helsinki (2022–2023)
From 25 August 2022 to 6 May 2023, a non-replica production ran at the Helsinki City Theatre, starring Lauri Mikkola as Tick/Mitzi, Clarissa Jäärni as Bernadette and Niki Rautén as Adam/Felicia. Wroclaw (2022–)
A non-replica production premiered at the Capitol Theater in Wrocław on 8 October 2022, with an audience preview the night before. Mitzi/Tick is portrayed by Albert Pyśk and Michał Zborowski, Bernadette by Justyna Antoniak and Justyna Szafran, and Adam/Felicia by Rafał Derkacz. Musical numbers

Original Australian and New Zealand production

Act I
Overture – Orchestra
Downtown – The Divas and Company
I've Never Been to Me — Tick and the Divas
What's Love Got to Do with It? – Miss Understanding
Don't Leave Me This Way – Bernadette, Tick and Company (†)
Venus – Felicia and the Boys
Go West – Bernadette, Tick, Adam and Company
I Say a Little Prayer – Tick and the Divas
I Love the Nightlife – Shirley, Bernadette, Mitzi, Felicia and Company (†)
Both Sides, Now – Bernadette, Tick and Adam
Follie! Delirio vano è questo! Sempre libera (from La traviata) – Felicia and the Divas
Colour My World – Adam, Tick, Bernadette and Company
I Will Survive – Bernadette, Adam, Tick, Jimmy and Company

Act II
Thank God I'm a Country Boy – The Company
A Fine Romance – Young Bernadette and Les Girls
Shake Your Groove Thing – Mitzi, Bernadette, Felicia and the Divas
Pop Muzik – Cynthia and Company
A Fine Romance (reprise) – Bob
Girls Just Wanna Have Fun – The Divas and Adam
Hot Stuff – Felicia, the Divas and Bernadette
MacArthur Park – Bernadette, Tick, Adam and Company
Boogie Wonderland – Marion and Company
The Morning After – Mitzi, Bernadette, Felicia and the Divas
Go West (reprise) – Adam (*)
Always on My Mind – Tick and Benjamin
Confide in Me – Felicia (^)
We Belong – Felicia, Mitzi and Bernadette
Finally / Shake Your Groove Thing / Hot Stuff / I Love the Nightlife / I Will Survive – The Company

Amendments for the West End production
 (†) "I Say a Little Prayer" is the fifth number, and is again reprised as the ninth number of the show in the West End production. This, therefore, means that each number (from the fifth number onwards) in Act I is one number delayed. This gives a total of fourteen numbers in Act I of the West End production. (*) "Go West (reprise)" is replaced by "Come into My World" in the West End production. (^) Although replaced by "Kylie Medley" in the West End production, "Confide in Me" appears in that medley. Broadway and Internationally

Act I
Overture – Orchestra
It's Raining Men – The Divas, Tick and Company
What's Love Got to Do with It? – Miss Understanding
I Say a Little Prayer – Tick
Don't Leave Me This Way – Bernadette, Tick and Company
Material Girl – Felicia and the Boys
Go West – Bernadette, Tick, Adam and Company
Holiday / Like a Virgin* – Adam, Tick and Bernadette
I Say a Little Prayer (reprise)* – Tick and The Divas
I Love the Nightlife – Shirley, Bernadette, Mitzi, Felicia and Company
True Colors – Bernadette, Mitzi and Felicia
Follie! Delirio vano è questo! Sempre libera (from La traviata) – Felicia and the Divas
Colour My World – Adam, Tick, Bernadette and Company
I Will Survive – Bernadette, Felicia, Mitzi, Jimmy and Company

Act II
Thank God I'm a Country Boy* – The Company
A Fine Romance – Young Bernadette and Les Girls
Thank God I'm a Country Boy (reprise)* – The Company
Shake Your Groove Thing – Mitzi, Bernadette, Felicia and the Divas
Pop Muzik – Cynthia and Company
A Fine Romance (reprise) – Bob
Girls Just Wanna Have Fun – Adam and the Divas
Hot Stuff – Felicia, The Divas, and Bernadette
MacArthur Park – Bernadette, Tick, The Divas and Company
Boogie Wonderland* – The Company
The Floor Show* – Mitzi, Bernadette, Felicia and Company
Always on My Mind/I Say a Little Prayer – Tick, Benji
Like a Prayer – Felicia and Company
We Belong – Felicia, Mitzi, Bernadette and Company
Finally (Finale) – The Company

* – Song does not appear on Original Broadway Cast Recording. UK Tour

Act I
Overture – Orchestra
Downtown – The Divas, Tick and Company <UK Tour 2015/16>
It's Raining Men – The Divas, Tick and Company
I've Never Been to Me – The Divas and Tick  <UK Tour 2015/16>
What's Love Got to Do with It?