[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: Nanophotonics | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Nanophotonics — Overview

"superlens", which would use metamaterials (see below) or other techniques to create images that are more accurate than the diffraction limit (deep subwavelength). In 1995, Guerra demonstrated this by imaging a silicon grating having 50nm lines and spaces with illumination having 650nm wavelength in air. This was accomplished by coupling a transparent phase grating having 50nm lines and spaces (metamaterial) with an immersion microscope objective (superlens). Near-field scanning optical microscope (NSOM or SNOM) is a quite different nanophotonic technique that accomplishes the same goal of taking images with resolution far smaller than the wavelength. It involves raster-scanning a very sharp tip or very small aperture over the surface to be imaged. Near-field microscopy refers more generally to any technique using the near-field (see below) to achieve nanoscale, subwavelength resolution. In 1987, Guerra (while at the Polaroid Corporation) achieved this with a non-scanning whole-field Photon tunneling microscope. In another example, dual-polarization interferometry has picometer resolution in the vertical plane above the waveguide surface. Optical data storage 
Nanophotonics in the form of subwavelength near-field optical structures, either separate from the recording media, or integrated into the recording media, were used to achieve optical recording densities much higher than the diffraction limit allows. This work began in the 1980s at Polaroid Optical Engineering (Cambridge, Massachusetts), and continued under license at Calimetrics (Bedford, Massachusetts) with support from the NIST Advanced Technology Program. Band-gap engineering 
In 2002, Guerra (Nanoptek Corporation) demonstrated that nano-optical structures of semiconductors exhibit bandgap shifts because of induced strain. In the case of titanium dioxide, structures on the order of less than 200nm half-height width will absorb not only in the normal ultraviolet part of the solar spectrum, but well into the high-energy visible blue as well. In 2008, Thulin and Guerra published modeling that  showed not only bandgap shift, but also band-edge shift, and higher hole mobility for lower charge recombination. The band-gap engineered titanium dioxide is used as a photoanode in efficient photolytic and photo-electro-chemical production of hydrogen fuel from sunlight and water. Silicon nanophotonics 

Silicon photonics is a silicon-based subfield of nanophotonics in which nano-scale structures of the optoelectronic devices realized on silicon substrates and that are capable to control both light and electrons. They allow to couple electronic and optical functionality in one single device. Such devices find a wide variety of applications outside of academic settings, e.g. mid-infrared and overtone spectroscopy, logic gates and cryptography on a chip etc. As of 2016 the research of in silicon photonics spanned light modulators, optical waveguides and interconnectors, optical amplifiers, photodetectors, memory elements, photonic crystals etc. An area of particular interest is silicon nanostructures capable to efficiently generate electrical energy from solar light (e.g. for solar panels). Principles

Plasmons and metal optics

Metals are an effective way to confine light to far below the wavelength. This was originally used in radio and microwave engineering, where metal antennas and waveguides may be hundreds of times smaller than the free-space wavelength. For a similar reason, visible light can be confined to the nano-scale via nano-sized metal structures, such as nano-sized structures, tips, gaps, etc. Many nano-optics designs look like common microwave or radiowave circuits, but shrunk down by a factor of 100,000 or more. After all, radiowaves, microwaves, and visible light are all electromagnetic radiation; they differ only in frequency. So other things equal, a microwave circuit shrunk down by a factor of 100,000 will behave the same way but at 100,000 times higher frequency. This effect is somewhat analogous to a lightning rod, where the field concentrates at the tip. The technological field that makes use of the interaction between light and metals is called plasmonics. It is fundamentally based on the fact that the permittivity of the metal is very large and negative. At very high frequencies (near and above the plasma frequency, usually ultraviolet), the permittivity of a metal is not so large, and the metal stops being useful for concentrating fields. For example, researchers have made nano-optical dipoles and Yagi–Uda antennas following essentially the same design as used for radio antennas. Metallic parallel-plate waveguides (striplines), lumped-constant circuit elements such as inductance and capacitance (at visible light frequencies, the values of the latter being of the order of femtohenries and attofarads, respectively), and impedance-matching of dipole antennas to transmission lines, all familiar techniques at microwave frequencies, are some current areas of nanophotonics development.