[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: graphene biomedical applications toxicity review | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: graphene biomedical applications toxicity review]

73. J Control Release. 2023 Feb;354:503-522. doi: 10.1016/j.jconrel.2023.01.028. 
Epub 2023 Jan 19.

Graphene oxide nanoarchitectures in cancer biology: Nano-modulators of autophagy 
and apoptosis.

Taheriazam A(1), Abad GGY(2), Hajimazdarany S(3), Imani MH(4), Ziaolhagh S(5), 
Zandieh MA(6), Bayanzadeh SD(5), Mirzaei S(7), Hamblin MR(8), Entezari M(2), 
Aref AR(9), Zarrabi A(10), Ertas YN(11), Ren J(12), Rajabi R(13), Paskeh 
MDA(14), Hashemi M(15), Hushmandi K(16).

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopedics, Faculty of medicine, Tehran Medical Sciences, 
Islamic Azad University, Tehran, Iran; Farhikhtegan Medical Convergence Sciences 
Research Center, Farhikhtegan Hospital Tehran Medical sciences, Islamic Azad 
University, Tehran, Iran.
(2)Farhikhtegan Medical Convergence Sciences Research Center, Farhikhtegan 
Hospital Tehran Medical sciences, Islamic Azad University, Tehran, Iran; 
Department of Genetics, Faculty of Advanced Science and Technology, Tehran 
Medical Sciences, Islamic Azad University, Tehran, Iran.
(3)Farhikhtegan Medical Convergence Sciences Research Center, Farhikhtegan 
Hospital Tehran Medical sciences, Islamic Azad University, Tehran, Iran; 
Department of Cellular and Molecular Biology, Faculty of Advanced Science and 
Technology, Tehran Medical Sciences, Islamic Azad University, Tehran, Iran.
(4)Department of Clinical Science, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Islamic Azad 
University, Shahr-e kord Branch, Chaharmahal and Bakhtiari, Iran.
(5)Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Islamic Azad University, Science and Research 
Branch, Tehran, Iran.
(6)Department of Food Hygiene and Quality Control, Division of epidemiology, 
Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, University of Tehran, Tehran, Iran.
(7)Department of Biology, Faculty of Science, Islamic Azad University, Science 
and Research Branch, Tehran, Iran.
(8)Laser Research Centre, Faculty of Health Science, University of Johannesburg, 
Doornfontein 2028, South Africa; Radiation Biology Research Center, Iran 
University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(9)Belfer Center for Applied Cancer Science, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, 
Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA; Vice President at Translational 
Sciences, Xsphera Biosciences Inc., 6 Tide Street, Boston, MA, 02210, USA.
(10)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Faculty of Engineering and Natural 
Sciences, Istinye University, Istanbul 34396, Turkey.
(11)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Erciyes University, Kayseri, Turkey; 
ERNAM-Nanotechnology Research and Application Center, Erciyes University, 
Kayseri, Turkey.
(12)Shanghai Institute of Cardiovascular Diseases, Department of Cardiology, 
Zhongshan Hospital, Fudan University, Shanghai 200032, China.
(13)Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Islamic Azad University, Science and 
Research Branch, Tehran, Iran. Electronic address: rajabiromina74@gmail.com.
(14)Farhikhtegan Medical Convergence Sciences Research Center, Farhikhtegan 
Hospital Tehran Medical sciences, Islamic Azad University, Tehran, Iran; 
Department of Genetics, Faculty of Advanced Science and Technology, Tehran 
Medical Sciences, Islamic Azad University, Tehran, Iran. Electronic address: 
deldar_mahshid@yahoo.com.
(15)Farhikhtegan Medical Convergence Sciences Research Center, Farhikhtegan 
Hospital Tehran Medical sciences, Islamic Azad University, Tehran, Iran; 
Department of Genetics, Faculty of Advanced Science and Technology, Tehran 
Medical Sciences, Islamic Azad University, Tehran, Iran. Electronic address: 
mhashemi@iautmu.ac.ir.
(16)Department of Food Hygiene and Quality Control, Division of epidemiology, 
Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, University of Tehran, Tehran, Iran. Electronic 
address: houshmandi.kia7@ut.ac.ir.

Nanotechnology is a growing field, with many potential biomedical applications 
of nanomedicine for the treatment of different diseases, particularly cancer, on 
the horizon. Graphene oxide (GO) nanoparticles can act as carbon-based 
nanocarriers with advantages such as a large surface area, good mechanical 
strength, and the capacity for surface modification. These nanostructures have 
been extensively used in cancer therapy for drug and gene delivery, photothermal 
therapy, overcoming chemotherapy resistance, and for imaging procedures. In the 
current review, we focus on the biological functions of GO nanoparticles as 
regulators of apoptosis and autophagy, the two major forms of programmed cell 
death. GO nanoparticles can either induce or inhibit autophagy in cancer cells, 
depending on the conditions. By stimulating autophagy, GO nanocarriers can 
promote the sensitivity of cancer cells to chemotherapy. However, by impairing 
autophagy flux, GO nanoparticles can reduce cell survival and enhance 
inflammation. Similarly, GO nanomaterials can increase ROS production and induce 
DNA damage, thereby sensitizing cancer cells to apoptosis. In vitro and in vivo 
experiments have investigated whether GO nanomaterials show any toxicity in 
major body organs, such as the brain, liver, spleen, and heart. Molecular 
pathways, such as ATG, MAPK, JNK, and Akt, can be regulated by GO nanomaterials, 
leading to effects on autophagy and apoptosis. These topics are discussed in 
this review to shed some lights towards the biomedical potential of GO 
nanoparticles and their biocompatibility, paving the way for their future 
application in clinical trials.

Copyright © 2023 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jconrel.2023.01.028
PMID: 36641122 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest MRH declares 
the following potential conflicts of interest. Scientific Advisory Boards: 
Transdermal Cap Inc., Cleveland, OH; Hologenix Inc. Santa Monica, CA; Vielight, 
Toronto, Canada; JOOVV Inc., Minneapolis-St. Paul MN. Consulting; USHIO Corp, 
Japan; Sanofi-Aventis Deutschland GmbH, Frankfurt am Main, Germany. The other 
authors declare no conflict of interest.