[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: Wee Sing | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Wee Sing — Overview

Wee Sing is a songbook series published by Price Stern Sloan. It would also inspire a series of children's CDs, cassettes, coloring books, toys, videos, and apps. Wee Sing Home Videos

Wee Sing Together (1985)
Sally gets a surprise when her two favorite stuffed animals, Melody Mouse with lavender pink-colored body (dressed up as a purple and white ballerina) and Hum Bear with tan-colored body magically come to life and take her, along with her brother Jonathan and their dog Bingo to the magical Wee Sing Park for Sally's birthday party, where they meet a marching band. They sing and dance and learn how to conquer their fears when a storm hits. Songs
"The More Wee Sing Together"
"Skidamarink"
"Head and Shoulders"
"The Finger Band"
"Walking Walking"
"Rickety Tickety"
"Little Peter Rabbit"
"I'm a Little Teapot" 
"The Alphabet Song"
"BINGO"
"Sally's Wearing a Red Dress"
"Old MacDonald Had a Farm"
"Looby Loo"
"Rain, Rain, Go Away"
"There is Thunder"
"Eensy Weensy Spider"
"If You're Happy and You Know It"
"Reach for the Sky"
"My Name and Address"
"Twinkle, Twinkle, Little Star"
"Teddy Bear"
"The More We Sing Together" (Reprise)

King Cole's Party (1987)
Jack, Jill, Mary, and Little Boy Blue journey toward King Cole's palace to join him and his other subjects in celebrating 100 years of peace in the kingdom, bringing various gifts: a kitten, a pair of mittens, and a fuzzy blanket, among other things. The main message is that the best gifts come from the heart, but it also teaches the importance of helping others and using good manners. Songs
"Old King Cole"
"Betty Botter"
"Pat-a-Cake"
"Polly, Put the Kettle On"
"Sing a Song of Sixpence"
"Pease Porridge Hot"
"Jack and Jill"
"Mary Had a Little Lamb"
"Little Boy Blue"
"Walking Chant"
"Six Little Ducks"
"There Was a Crooked Man"
"Wibbleton to Wobbleton"
"Sea-Saw Sac-Ra-Down"
"This Old Man"
"Humpty Dumpty"
"Little Bo Peep"
"Little Jack Horner"
"Jack Sprat"
"Little Miss Muffet"
"Rub a Dub Dub"
"Jack Be Nimble"
"Little Tommy Tucker"
"Peter Piper"
"Old King Cole" (Reprise)

Grandpa's Magical Toys (1988)
A boy named Peter and his friends, David and Sara, visit his grandfather and discover his many toys (including Punchinello) and their secrets, all in the search of a missing music box key that he misplaced. When his grandfather leaves the room, David bumps into a music box which shrinks them, and the toys come to life. This story encourages children and adults alike that no matter how old you are on the outside or what body type you have, you can always stay young at heart. Songs
"Good Morning"
"Punchinello"
"A Sailor Went to Sea, Sea, Sea"
"Long Legged Sailor"
"The Muffin Man"
"One Potato"
Medley: "Pretty Little Dutch Girl"/"I Love Coffee, I Love Tea"
Medley: "Mabel, Mabel"/"Miss, Miss"
"The Farmer in the Dell"
"Did You Ever See a Lassie?"
"The Hokey Pokey"
"Who Stole the Cookies from the Cookie Jar?"
Medley: "Roll That Red Ball"/"One, Two, Buckle My Shoe"'"One, Two, Three O'Leary"/"One, Two, Three A-Twirlsy"
"The Merry-Go-Round"
"Hambone"
"Playmate"

Wee Sing in Sillyville (1989)
Two children named Laurie and Scott, along with their dog Barney, magically enter their coloring book to help a woman named Sillywhim resolve the townspeople's differences. They encounter the four yellow Spurtlegurgles, the three blue Twirlypops, the two green Jingleheimers and three Fruggy Frogs, the family of red Bitty Booties and Purple Pasha and her menagerie. The primary message is that being different should never be a barrier to being friends. Songs
"Do Your Ears Hang Low?"
"We're Here Because We're Here" (tune: "Auld Lang Syne")
"Boom, Boom, Ain't It Great to Be Crazy?"
Medley: "Michael Finnegan"/"No, No, Yes, Yes"
"Once an Austrian" (C and D major)
"Grasshopper"
"John Jacob Jingleheimer Schmidt"
"Little Green Frog"
"Frog Round"
"Down by the Bay"
"Risseldy, Rosseldy"
"Bitty Booty Baby" (tune: "John Brown's Body")
"One Bottle o'Pop"
"I'm a Nut"
"A Ram Sam Sam"
"Five in the Bed"
"Be Kind to Your Web-Footed Friends"
"Make New Friends"
"Let Us Sing Together"

The Best Christmas Ever! (1990)
Just five days before Christmas, when Poofer the Elf tries to help his best friend Gusty the Elf, he gets lost and winds up in the home of the Smiths, a loving family, and meets their caroling neighbors as well. He and the Smiths journey to the North Pole in an effort to aid Gusty, who has grown unexceptionably clumsy. After the elves, and even Santa Claus himself wrestle with the issue, Susie realizes what's wrong - Gusty needs a new pair of glasses. This story encourages children to wear glasses (if they need them), but also has subtle messages about cultural diversity, helping others, the importance of working together, the importance of wearing a seat belt and helmet while traveling, and that an adoptive family can be as close and loving as any other. Songs
"We Wish You a Merry Christmas"
"Tapping, Tapping Little Elves"
"O Christmas Tree"
"Two Little Christmas Trees"
"Mother's Knives and Forks"
"Here We Come A-Caroling"
"Deck the Halls"
"Christmas Day"
"When Santa Comes to Our House"
"The Angel Band"
"Little Bells of Christmas"
"Star Light, Star Bright"
"The Christmas Wrap"
"Christmas is Coming"
Medley: "Chubby Little Snowman"/"The Chimney"
"Gusty the Elf"
"Jolly Old St.