[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: phytotherapy systematic review clinical evidence | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: phytotherapy systematic review clinical evidence]

35. Complement Ther Med. 2020 Jun;51:102429. doi: 10.1016/j.ctim.2020.102429.
Epub  2020 May 14.

Clinical effects of date palm (Phoenix dactylifera L.): A systematic review on 
clinical trials.

Bagherzadeh Karimi A(1), Elmi A(2), Zargaran A(3), Mirghafourvand M(4), Fazljou 
SMB(5), Araj-Khodaei M(6), Baghervand Navid R(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Persian Medicine, School of Traditional Medicine, Tabriz 
University of Medical Sciences, Tabriz, Iran. Electronic address: 
bagerzadeha@tbzmed.ac.ir.
(2)Department of Orthopedic Surgeries, Faculty of Medicine, Tabriz University of 
Medical Sciences, Tabriz, Iran. Electronic address: 
maralan-bagherzadeh@hotmail.com.
(3)Department of Traditional Pharmacy, School of Persian Medicine, Tehran 
University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran. Electronic address: 
arman_zargaran@yahoo.com.
(4)Department of Persian Medicine, School of Traditional Medicine, Tabriz 
University of Medical Sciences, Tabriz, Iran; Midwifery Department, Social 
Determinants of Health Research Center, Tabriz University of Medical Sciences, 
Tabriz, Iran. Electronic address: mirghafourvand@gmail.com.
(5)Department of Persian Medicine, School of Traditional Medicine, Tabriz 
University of Medical Sciences, Tabriz, Iran. Electronic address: 
dr.fazljou@yahoo.com.
(6)Department of Persian Medicine, School of Traditional Medicine, Tabriz 
University of Medical Sciences, Tabriz, Iran; Aging Research Institute, Tabriz 
University of Medical Sciences, Tabriz, Iran. Electronic address: 
Mostafaa33@gmail.com.
(7)Department of Persian Medicine, School of Traditional Medicine, Tabriz 
University of Medical Sciences, Tabriz, Iran. Electronic address: 
rbaghervand@hotmail.com.

PURPOSE: The aim of present study was to review and categorize the clinical 
trials investigating the clinical effects of different botanical parts of dates 
compared with any controls.
METHODS: All clinical trials (randomized, pilot, quasi-experimental, cross-over. 
and non-randomized clinical trials) evaluating the clinical effects of date palm 
from 2000 until August 2019 in English and Persian languages were included in 
this systematic review. The methodological quality of the included studies was 
evaluated according to the risk of bias assessment of Cochrane handbook of 
systematic reviews, and then reported using Preferred Reporting Items for 
Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analysis (PRISMA) statement.
RESULTS: Twenty-six studies met the inclusion criteria. Studies were performed 
in 8 categories based on different botanical parts of date palm. These 
categories were obstetrics, gynecology, oncology, dermatology, hematology, 
gastroenterology, endocrinology, metabolism, and infertility. A total of 38 % of 
included studies were randomized controlled trials. Further, 80 % of the 
included studies had performance and detection bias. Finally, about 50 % of them 
had selection bias and about 20 % had attrition and reporting bias.
CONCLUSION: The widespread consumption of date palm as medicinal and botanical 
plant suggests the importance of this plant in human healthcare. The clinical 
trials conducted so far have explained a number of clinical effects of date 
palm. However, there is not enough clinical evidence to support the clinical 
effects in other review articles and traditional medical systems, and further 
randomized controlled trials with robust designs and methods are required.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ctim.2020.102429
PMID: 32507440 [Indexed for MEDLINE]