[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: photodynamic therapy cancer clinical trial | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: photodynamic therapy cancer clinical trial]

56. Photochem Photobiol. 2020 May;96(3):539-549. doi: 10.1111/php.13243. Epub
2020  Apr 29.

Clinical Trials and Basic Research in Photodynamic Diagnostics and Therapies 
from the Center for Laser Diagnostics and Therapy in Poland.

Kawczyk-Krupka A(1), Bartusik-Aebisher D(2), Latos W(1), Cieślar G(1), Sieroń 
K(1)(3), Kwiatek S(1), Oleś P(1), Kwiatek B(1), Aebisher D(2), Krupka M(1), 
Wiench R(4), Skaba D(4), Olek M(5), Kasperski J(5), Czuba Z(6), Sieroń A(1)(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Angiology, and Physical Medicine, Center for 
Laser Diagnostics and Therapy, Medical University of Silesia in Katowice, Bytom, 
Poland.
(2)Faculty of Medicine, University of Rzeszów, Rzeszów, Poland.
(3)Department of Physical Medicine, Chair of Physiotherapy, Medical University 
of Silesia, Katowice, Poland.
(4)Department of Periodontal Diseases and Oral Mucosa Diseases, Medical 
University of Silesia in Katowice, Zabrze, Poland.
(5)Department of Prosthetic Dentistry, Medical University of Silesia in 
Katowice, Zabrze, Poland.
(6)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Medical University of Silesia in 
Katowice, Zabrze, Poland.
(7)Department of Physiotherapy, Jan Dlugosz University in Częstochowa, 
Częstochowa, Poland.

The purpose of this review is to present an overview of the development of 
photodiagnostic and photodynamic therapy (PDD and PDT) techniques in Poland. The 
paper discusses the principles of PDD, including fluorescent techniques in 
determining precancerous conditions and cancers of the skin, digestive tract, 
bladder and respiratory tract. Methods of PDT of cancer will be discussed and 
the current state of knowledge as well as future trends in the development of 
photodynamic techniques will be presented, including the possibility of using 
photodynamic antimicrobial therapy. Research pioneers in photodynamic medicine 
such as Thomas Dougherty are an inspiration for the development of methods of 
PDD and PDT in our Clinic. The Center for Laser Diagnostics and Therapy in 
Bytom, Poland, promotes the propagation of PDD and PDT through the training of 
clinicians and raising awareness among students in training and the general 
public. Physicians at the Center are engaged in photomedical research aimed at 
clinical implementation and exploration of new avenues in photomedicine while 
optimizing existing modalities. The Center promotes dissemination of clinical 
results from a wide range of topics in PDD and PDT and serving as representative 
authorities of photodynamic medicine in Poland and Europe.

© 2020 American Society for Photobiology.

DOI: 10.1111/php.13243
PMID: 32112419 [Indexed for MEDLINE]