[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: magnetic nanoparticle hyperthermia cancer therapy | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: magnetic nanoparticle hyperthermia cancer therapy]

34. Biotechnol Genet Eng Rev. 2023 Oct;39(2):1187-1233. doi: 
10.1080/02648725.2023.2169370. Epub 2023 Jan 29.

Surface modified iron-oxide based engineered nanomaterials for hyperthermia 
therapy of cancer cells.

Mehak(1), Thummer RP(2), Pandey LM(1).

Author information:
(1)Bio-interface & Environmental Engineering Lab Department of Biosciences and 
Bioengineering, Indian Institute of Technology Guwahati, Assam, India.
(2)Laboratory for Stem Cell Engineering and Regenerative Medicine Department of 
Biosciences and Bioengineering, Indian Institute of Technology Guwahati, Assam, 
India.

Magnetic hyperthermia is emerging as a promising alternative to the currently 
available cancer treatment modalities. Superparamagnetic iron-oxide 
nanoparticles (SPIONs) are extensively studied functional nanomaterials for 
biomedical applications, owing to their tunable physio-chemical properties and 
magnetic properties. Out of various ferrite classes, spinel and inverse-spinel 
ferrites are widely used but are affected by particle size distribution, 
particle shape, particle-particle interaction, geometry, and crystallinity. 
Notably, their heating ability makes them suitable candidates for heat-mediated 
cancer cell ablation or hyperthermia therapy. Exposing SPIONs to an externally 
applied magnetic field of appropriate frequency and intensity causes them to 
release heat to ablate cancer cells. Majorly, three heating mechanisms are 
exhibited by magnetic nanomaterials: Nèel relaxation, Brownian relaxation, and 
hysteresis losses. In SPIONs, Nèel and Brownian relaxations dominate, whereas 
hysteric losses are negligible. These nanomaterials possess high magnetization 
values capable of generating heat to ablate cancer cells. Furthermore, surface 
functionalization of these materials imparts the ability to selectively target 
cancer cells and deliver cargo to the affected area sparing the normal body 
cells. The surface of nanoparticles can be functionalized with various physical, 
chemical, and biological coatings. Moreover, hyperthermia can be applied in 
combination with other cancer treatment modalities in order to enhance the 
efficiency of treatment.

DOI: 10.1080/02648725.2023.2169370
PMID: 36710396 [Indexed for MEDLINE]