[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: pharmacognosy medicinal plant active compound isol | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: pharmacognosy medicinal plant active compound isolation]

6. Endocr Metab Immune Disord Drug Targets. 2024;24(3):302-320. doi: 
10.2174/1871530323666230914103731.

Mentha Pulegium: A Plant with Several Medicinal Properties.

Amtaghri S(1)(2), Slaoui M(2), Eddouks M(1).

Author information:
(1)Team of Ethnopharmacology and Pharmacognosy, Faculty of Sciences and 
Techniques Errachidia, Moulay Ismail University of Meknes, BP 509, Boutalamine, 
Errachidia, 52000, Morocco.
(2)Energy, Materials and Sustainable Development (EMDD) Team, Higher School of 
Technology-SALE, Center for Water, Natural Resources Environment and Sustainable 
Development (CERNE2D), Mohammed V University, Rabat, Morocco.

The species Mentha Pulegium L. (M. pulegium L.) belongs to the family Lamiaceae, 
native to Europe, North Africa, and the Middle East, and the genus Mentha. It 
has been traditionally used in food, cosmetics, and medicines. It is a 
perennial, fragrant, well-liked, herbaceous plant that can grow up to half a 
meter tall. It is extensively used as a food flavoring, particularly for 
Moroccan traditional drinks. Chewing mint and M. pulegium, a relaxing and 
refreshing plant, can be used to treat hiccups and act as an anticonvulsant and 
nerve relaxant. Pennyroyal leaves that have been crushed have a pungent, 
spearmint-like scent. Pennyroyal is used to make herbal teas, which, while not 
proven to be harmful to healthy adults in small doses, are not recommended due 
to their liver toxicity. Infants and children can die if they consume it. 
Pennyroyal leaves, both fresh and dried, are particularly effective at repelling 
insects. Pennyroyal essential oil should never be taken internally because it is 
highly toxic, even in small doses, it can be fatal. This plant is used in 
traditional Moroccan medicine to treat a wide range of conditions, including 
influenza, rheumatism, migraine, infertility, ulcer, pain, gastrointestinal 
problems, fever, diabetes, obesity, mental and cardiac disorders, constipation, 
respiratory ailments, and cough. M. pulegium is a great candidate for 
contemporary therapeutic usage since it contains a wide variety of biologically 
active compounds, including terpenoids, flavonoids, alkaloids, tannins, and 
saponins in all its parts. Among the different parts used are the whole plant, 
the aerial part, the stem, and the leaves. More interestingly, the entire plant 
contains a variety of compounds including Pulegone, Isomenthone, Carvone, 
Menthofuran, Menthol, 1,8-Cineole, Piperitone, Piperitenone, Neomenthol, 
-humulene, and 3-octanol. Eriocitrin, Hesperidin, Narirutin, Luteolin, 
Isorhoifolin, Galic acid, and Rosmarinic acid are found in the leaves. 
p-hydroxybenzoic acid, Ferulic acid, Caffeic acid, Vanillic acid, Syringic acid, 
Protocatechuic acid, Cinnamic acid, Phloretic acid, o-coumaric acid, p-coumaric 
acid, Catechin, Epicatechin, Chrysin, Quercetin, Naringenin, Carvacrol are all 
found in the areal part. Alterporriol G, Atropisomer, Alterporriol H, 
Altersolanol K, Altersolanol L, Stemphypyrone, 6-O-methylalaternin, Macrosporin, 
Altersolanol A, Alterporriol E, Alterporriol D, Alterporriol A, Alterporriol B, 
and Altersolanol J are also found in the stem of fungus. Pulegone, Piperitone, 
p-Menthane-1,2,3- triol, β-elemenene, guanine (cis-), Carvacrol acetate, and 
Phenyl ethyl alcohol are all components of this plant's essential oils. 
Moreover, the study also sought to investigate and document all currently 
available evidence and information on the nutritional composition and 
therapeutic uses of this plant ornamental. Its pharmacological applications 
include antimicrobial, antioxidant, antihypertensive, antidiabetic, 
anti-inflammatory, antiproliferative, antifungal, anticancer, burn wound 
healing, antispasmodic, and hepatotoxicity. Finally, toxicological studies have 
revealed that while low doses of extracts of the plant M. pulegium are not 
toxic, however, its essential oils of it are extremely toxic. In order to 
evaluate future research needs and investigate its pharmacological applications 
through clinical trials, the current assessment focuses on the distribution, 
chemical composition, biological activities, and primary uses of the plant.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/1871530323666230914103731
PMID: 37711001 [Indexed for MEDLINE]