[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: Rheum (plant) | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Rheum (plant) — Overview

species. The many cultivars of culinary rhubarb more usually grown for eating are recognised as Rheum × hybridum in the Royal Horticultural Society's list of recognised plant names. The drug rheum is prepared from the rhizomes and roots of another species, R. officinale or medicinal rhubarb. This species is also native to Asia, as is the turkey rhubarb, R. palmatum. Another species, the Sikkim rhubarb, R. nobile, is limited to the Himalayas. The centre of diversity for this genus is found in Central Asia. The following is a partial list of species names, some of which, according to some authorities, are considered synonyms or not fully resolved or accepted:

Rheum acuminatum Hook.f. & Thomson
Rheum alexandrae Batalin
Rheum australe D.Don
Rheum compactum L. Rheum cordatum Losinsk. Rheum coreanum Nakai
Rheum darvasicum V.S.Titov ex Losinsk. Rheum delavayi Franch. Rheum fedtschenkoi Maxim. ex Regel
Rheum forrestii Diels
Rheum globulosum Gage
Rheum hissaricum Losinsk. Rheum hotaoense C.Y.Cheng & T.C.Kao
Rheum × hybridum  Murray
Rheum inopinatum Prain
Rheum khorasanicum Baradaran & Jafari
Rheum kialense Franch. Rheum laciniatum Prain
Rheum lhasaense A.J.Li & P.K.Hsiao
Rheum likiangense Sam. Rheum lucidum Losinsk. Rheum macrocarpum Losinsk. Rheum maculatum C.Y.Cheng & T.C.Kao
Rheum maximowiczii Losinsk. Rheum moorcroftianum Royle
Rheum nanum Siev. ex Pall. Rheum neyshabourense Baradaran & Jafari
Rheum nobile Hook.f. & Thomson
Rheum officinale Baill. Rheum palaestinum Feinbrun
Rheum palmatum L. Rheum persicum Losinsk. Rheum platylobum Rech.f. Rheum przewalskyi Losinsk. Rheum pumilum Maxim. Rheum racemiferum Maxim. Rheum reticulatum Losinsk. Rheum rhabarbarum L. Rheum rhaponticum L. Rheum rhizostachyum Schrenk
Rheum rhomboideum Losinsk. Rheum ribes L. Rheum spiciforme Royle
Rheum subacaule Sam. Rheum sublanceolatum C.Y.Cheng & T.C.Kao
Rheum × svetlanae  Krassovsk. Rheum tanguticum (Maxim. ex Regel) Balf. Rheum tataricum L.f. Rheum tibeticum Maxim. ex Hook.f. Rheum turkestanicum Janisch. Rheum uninerve Maxim. Rheum webbianum Royle
Rheum wittrockii C.E.Lundstr. Rheum yunnanense Sam. Ecology 
Rheum species have been recorded as larval food plants for some Lepidoptera species such as the buff ermine, Spilarctia luteum, as well as Arctia caja, Hydraecia micacea and Xestia baja. Rheum species are often the host plants for myrmecophilous caterpillars of the butterfly genus Callophrys; Callophrys titanus feeds on R. maximowiczii in southern Kazakhstan, C. mystaphia on R. ribes in eastern Turkey, and C. mystaphioides on R. persicum in southwest and central Iran. The caterpillars of the related Lycaena violacea from southeastern Siberia are only known to feed on R. rhabarbarum. R. ribes leaves are food for the moth Xylena exsoleta in eastern Turkey. Beetles which are specialised herbivores of this plant species in eastern Turkey are a Petrocladus sp. weevil, the jewel beetle Capnodis marquardti, and the leaf beetle Labidostomis brevipennis. In the Taldy-Bulak valley in the Talas Alatau of Kyrgyzstan, the emerging leaves of R. maximowiczii are an important food source for Himalayan brown bear (Ursus arctos ssp. isabellinus) awakening from hibernation in April. Uses 
Many Rheum species have food and medicinal uses. Some of these uses originated in Asia more than 2,000 years ago. All parts of the plant contain slightly poisonous oxalic acid, but its concentration in the leaf stems or petioles used in food preparation is very low, and their tart flavor instead is caused by nontoxic malic acid. The plants also produce other compounds, including citric acid and anthraquinone glycosides, and the raw or cooked leaf blades are poisonous to humans and livestock if consumed in large enough amounts. Plants in cultivation are propagated by cutting up the crowns of larger plants and by seeds. Some species are grown for their ornamental qualities, including R. acuminatum, R. alexandrae, R. australe, R. kialense, R. palmatum, R. rhabarbarum and R. ribes. The roots of R. macrocarpum are exploited in the Tian-Shan to make a dye. References 

 
Polygonaceae genera