[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: José Luna | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# José Luna — Overview

Miraflores. The same is the case of Giselle Zegarra, former manager of Private Investment Promotion of the Municipality of Lima; as well as former municipal officials, Jaime Villafuerte and Bruno Lucchetti. In January 2020, the Prosecutor, Milagros Salazar, of the special team requested 36 months of preventive detention for the former mayor, Luis Castañeda; the former congressman, José Luna Galvez; and the former mayor, Giselle Zegarra. This is due to irregular contributions from Odebrecht and OAS to Luis Castañeda's campaign in 2014. It is said that the former mayor would have led a criminal organization from 2011 to 2018, when he ceased to occupy the municipal seat. On February 14, 2020, the Judiciary ordered 24 months of preventive detention for the former mayor of Lima, Luis Castañeda. While his former collaborators, the former congressman, José Luna Gálvez and the former mayor, Giselle Zegarra, were imposed a restricted appearance for 36 months with certain rules of conduct and an economic guarantee to each one. Education career
Over recent decades, Peru's tertiary education sector has dramatically expanded, and Peru had over 140 universities in 2019. Many of the 'degrees' are not recognized by any international body. Telesup was based in a Lima building behind a seven-story false facade; there were only four stories. Vice News described Luna's university as being "lucrative" and "low-quality". Sunedu, the state body regulating higher education standards, published a drone photograph of the site and blocked new student enrollment, giving Telesup two years to close. This affected 20,000 or more students who were required to complete their studies at other licensed institutions. References

External links

José Luna Gálvez personal site
Official Congressional Site

1955 births
Living people
National Solidarity Party (Peru) politicians
National Unity (Peru) politicians
Members of the Congress of the Republic of Peru
People from Huancavelica Region
American Popular Revolutionary Alliance politicians