[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: magnetic nanoparticle hyperthermia cancer therapy | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: magnetic nanoparticle hyperthermia cancer therapy]

33. Wiley Interdiscip Rev Nanomed Nanobiotechnol. 2022 Sep;14(5):e1826. doi: 
10.1002/wnan.1826. Epub 2022 Jun 23.

Nanoparticle-assisted, image-guided laser interstitial thermal therapy for 
cancer treatment.

Pang S(1), Kapur A(2), Zhou K(1), Anastasiadis P(2)(3), Ballirano N(1), Kim 
AJ(2)(3), Winkles JA(2)(3), Woodworth GF(2)(3), Huang HC(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Fischell Department of Bioengineering, University of Maryland at College 
Park, College Park, Maryland, USA.
(2)Department of Neurosurgery, University of Maryland School of Medicine, 
Baltimore, Maryland, USA.
(3)University of Maryland Marlene and Stewart Greenebaum Cancer Center, 
Baltimore, Maryland, USA.

Laser interstitial thermal therapy (LITT) guided by magnetic resonance imaging 
(MRI) is a new treatment option for patients with brain and non-central nervous 
system (non-CNS) tumors. MRI guidance allows for precise placement of optical 
fiber in the tumor, while MR thermometry provides real-time monitoring and 
assessment of thermal doses during the procedure. Despite promising clinical 
results, LITT complications relating to brain tumor procedures, such as 
hemorrhage, edema, seizures, and thermal injury to nearby healthy tissues, 
remain a significant concern. To address these complications, nanoparticles 
offer unique prospects for precise interstitial hyperthermia applications that 
increase heat transport within the tumor while reducing thermal impacts on 
neighboring healthy tissues. Furthermore, nanoparticles permit the co-delivery 
of therapeutic compounds that not only synergize with LITT, but can also improve 
overall effectiveness and safety. In addition, efficient heat-generating 
nanoparticles with unique optical properties can enhance LITT treatments through 
improved real-time imaging and thermal sensing. This review will focus on (1) 
types of inorganic and organic nanoparticles for LITT; (2) in vitro, in silico, 
and ex vivo studies that investigate nanoparticles' effect on light-tissue 
interactions; and (3) the role of nanoparticle formulations in advancing 
clinically relevant image-guided technologies for LITT. This article is 
categorized under: Therapeutic Approaches and Drug Discovery > Nanomedicine for 
Neurological Disease Implantable Materials and Surgical Technologies > Nanoscale 
Tools and Techniques in Surgery.

© 2022 The Authors. WIREs Nanomedicine and Nanobiotechnology published by Wiley 
Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/wnan.1826
PMCID: PMC9540339
PMID: 35735205 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared no conflicts of 
interest for this article.