[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: laser tissue interaction ablation photothermal | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: laser tissue interaction ablation photothermal]

36. J Control Release. 2025 Mar 10;379:147-163. doi:
10.1016/j.jconrel.2025.01.012.  Epub 2025 Jan 9.

Triple-action cancer therapy using laser-activated NO-releasing metallomicellar 
nanophotosensitizer for pyroptosis-driven immune reprogramming.

Mohanty A(1), Mohapatra A(2), Sundaram A(2), Sathiyamoorthy P(1), Park W(3), 
Rajendrakumar SK(4), Park IK(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical Sciences and BioMedical Sciences Graduate Program 
(BMSGP), Chonnam National University Medical School, Gwangju 61469, Republic of 
Korea.
(2)Department of Biomedical Sciences and BioMedical Sciences Graduate Program 
(BMSGP), Chonnam National University Medical School, Gwangju 61469, Republic of 
Korea; DR.Cure Inc., Hwasun 58128, Republic of Korea.
(3)Photonic Energy Components Research Center, Korea Photonics Technology 
Institute (KOPTI), Gwangju 61007, South Korea.
(4)Department of Chemistry, University of Warwick, Coventry CV4 7AL, United 
Kingdom. Electronic address: santhosh.rajendrakumar@warwick.ac.uk.
(5)Department of Biomedical Sciences and BioMedical Sciences Graduate Program 
(BMSGP), Chonnam National University Medical School, Gwangju 61469, Republic of 
Korea; DR.Cure Inc., Hwasun 58128, Republic of Korea. Electronic address: 
pik96@jnu.ac.kr.

Cancer photoimmunotherapy represents an intelligent and highly efficient 
therapeutic approach that harnesses the photothermal effect to precisely target 
and ablate tumor tissues, while simultaneously modulating the immune system to 
achieve tumor elimination. The integration of multifunctional therapeutic 
modalities for combined photoimmunotherapy requires advanced drug delivery 
systems. However, the design of a single nanoagent capable of serving as a 
multifunctional nanophotosensitizer remains a significant challenge. In this 
study, we developed a metallomicellar nanophotosensitizer named TAGNO, which 
offers a synergistic tri-modal cancer treatment strategy by combining 
photothermal therapy (PTT), gas therapy (GT), and immunotherapy. The TAGNO 
nanophotosensitizer consists of a gold nanorod core, responsible for inducing 
the photothermal effect, coated with an amphiphilic polymer functionalized with 
tumor cell penetrating peptide to accommodate lipophilic small molecule BNN6, a 
nitric oxide (NO) donor for GT. We demonstrated that TAGNO exhibited high tumor 
accumulation, excellent stability, and biocompatibility, ensuring the safe 
delivery of NO to the tumor site. Upon near-infrared (NIR) laser irradiation, 
TAGNO effectively raised the temperature within tumor tissues while sparing the 
surrounding healthy tissues and enabled controlled NO release. Once released, 
the NO interacts with hydrogen peroxide in the hypoxic tumor microenvironment, 
forming peroxynitrite (ONOO-), which induces mitochondrial dysfunction and 
triggers pyroptotic cell death. Pyroptosis induced immunogenic cell death and 
the subsequent release of tumor antigens, activating cytotoxic T cells and 
promoting M1 macrophage polarization, effectively controlling both primary and 
secondary tumor growth. Furthermore, laser-induced NO release facilitated the 
relaxation of stiff tumor tissues, enhancing blood vessel dilation and 
oxygenation. This improvement promoted immune cell infiltration while 
suppressing immunosuppressive cells. Overall, this innovative combination of 
PTT, GT, and immunotherapy presents a potent and synergistic strategy for the 
treatment of malignant colon tumors, achieving complete tumor eradication.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jconrel.2025.01.012
PMID: 39788373 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare no conflict of interest.