[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: biomaterial implant osseointegration titanium clin | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: biomaterial implant osseointegration titanium clinical]

41. J Prosthodont Res. 2018 Apr;62(2):121-133. doi: 10.1016/j.jpor.2017.07.003.
Epub  2017 Aug 18.

Is zirconia a viable alternative to titanium for oral implant? A critical 
review.

Sivaraman K(1), Chopra A(2), Narayan AI(3), Balakrishnan D(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Prosthodontics, Manipal College of Dental Sciences, Manipal 
University, Manipal, 576104, India. Electronic address: drskarthik86@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Periodontology, Manipal College of Dental Sciences, Manipal 
University, Manipal, India.
(3)Department of Prosthodontics, Manipal College of Dental Sciences, Manipal 
University, Manipal, 576104, India.

PURPOSE: Titanium based implant systems, though considered as the gold standard 
for rehabilitation of edentulous spaces, have been criticized for many inherent 
flaws. The onset of hypersensitivity reactions, biocompatibility issues, and an 
unaesthetic gray hue have raised demands for more aesthetic and tissue 
compatible material for implant fabrication. Zirconia is emerging as a promising 
alternative to conventional Titanium based implant systems for oral 
rehabilitation with superior biological, aesthetics, mechanical and optical 
properties. This review aims to critically analyze and review the credibility of 
Zirconia implants as an alternative to Titanium for prosthetic rehabilitation.
STUDY SELECTION: The literature search for articles written in the English 
language in PubMed and Cochrane Library database from 1990 till December 2016. 
The following search terms were utilized for data search: "zirconia implants" 
NOT "abutment", "zirconia implants" AND "titanium implants" AND 
"osseointegration", "zirconia implants" AND compatibility.
RESULTS: The number of potential relevant articles selected were 47. All the 
human in vivo clinical, in vitro, animals' studies were included and discussed 
under the following subheadings: Chemical composition, structure and phases; 
Physical and mechanical properties; Aesthetic and optical properties; 
Osseointegration and biocompatibility; Surface modifications; Peri-implant 
tissue compatibility, inflammation and soft tissue healing, and long-term 
prognosis.
CONCLUSIONS: Zirconia implants are a promising alternative to titanium with a 
superior soft-tissue response, biocompatibility, and aesthetics with comparable 
osseointegration. However, further long-term longitudinal and comparative 
clinical trials are required to validate zirconia as a viable alternative to the 
titanium implant.

Copyright © 2017 Japan Prosthodontic Society. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpor.2017.07.003
PMID: 28827030 [Indexed for MEDLINE]