[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: low-level laser therapy wound healing pain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: low-level laser therapy wound healing pain]

77. Can J Respir Ther. 2020 Jul 23;56:25-31. doi: 10.29390/cjrt-2020-015. 
eCollection 2020.

Low level laser therapy as a modality to attenuate cytokine storm at multiple 
levels, enhance recovery, and reduce the use of ventilators in COVID-19.

Mokmeli S(1), Vetrici M(2).

Author information:
(1)Canadian Optic and Laser Center (Training Institute), Victoria, BC, Canada.
(2)Department of Biological Sciences, University of Lethbridge, Lethbridge, AB 
T1K 3M4, Canada.

The global pandemic COVID-19 is a contagious disease and its mortality rates 
ranging from 1% to 5% are likely due to acute respiratory distress syndrome 
(ARDS), and cytokine storm. A significant proportion of patients who require 
intubation succumb to the disease, despite the availability of ventilators and 
the best treatment practices. Researchers worldwide are in search of 
anti-inflammatory medicines in the hope of finding a cure for COVID-19. 
Low-level laser therapy (LLLT) has strong, anti-inflammatory effects confirmed 
by meta-analyses, and it may be therapeutic to ARDS. LLLT has been used for pain 
management, wound healing, and other health conditions by physicians, 
physiotherapists, and nurses worldwide for decades. In addition, it has been 
used in veterinary medicine for respiratory tract disease such as pneumonia. 
Laser light with low-power intensity is applied to the surface of the skin to 
produce local and systemic effects. Based on the clinical experience, 
peer-reviewed studies, and solid laboratory data in experimental animal models, 
LLLT attenuates cytokine storm at multiple levels and reduces the major 
inflammatory metabolites. LLLT is a safe, effective, low-cost modality without 
any side-effects that may be combined with conventional treatment of ARDS. We 
summarize the effects of LLLT on pulmonary inflammation and we provide a 
protocol for augmenting medical treatment in COVID-19 patients. LLLT combined 
with conventional medical therapy has the potential to prevent the progression 
of COVID-19, minimize the length of time needed on a ventilator, enhance the 
healing process, and shorten recovery time.

DOI: 10.29390/cjrt-2020-015
PMCID: PMC7428000
PMID: 32844112