[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: A Modern Herbal — Mrs. M. Grieve | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# A Modern Herbal — Mrs. M. Grieve — Overview

chemistry. In this again we see a further extension of accurate measurement: another order of things different in quality began to be treated by a quantitative analysis. Lavoisier's is the greatest name. He gave a clear and logical classification of the chemical elements then known, which served as useful a purpose in that science, as classificatory systems in botany and zoology have done in those cases. But the crucial step which established chemistry, a step also due
to Lavoisier, was making the test of weight decisive. 'The balance was
the _ultima ratio_ of his laboratory.' His first principle was that the
total weight of all the products of a chemical process must be exactly
equal to the total weight of the substances used. From this, and rightly
disregarding the supposed weight of heat, he could proceed to the
discovery of the accurate proportions of the elements in all the
compounds he was able to analyse. Since then the process of mathematical synthesis in science has been
carried many stages further. The exponents of this aspect of scientific
progress, of whom we may take the late M. Henri Poincare as the leading
representative in our generation, are perfectly justified in treating
this gradual mathematical unification of knowledge with pride and
confidence. They have solid achievement on their side. It is through
science of this kind that the idea of universal order has gained its
sway in man's mind. The occasional attacks on scientific method, the
talk one sometimes hears of 'breaking the fetters of Cartesian
mechanics', seem to suggest that the great structure which Galileo,
Newton, and Descartes founded is comparable to the false Aristotelianism
which they destroyed. The suggestion is absurd: its chief excuse is the
desire to defend the autonomy of the sciences of life, about which we
have a word to say later on. But we must first complete our brief
mention of the greatest stages on the mechanical side, of which a full
and vivid account may be found in such a book as M. Poincare's _Science
et Hypothese_. Early in the nineteenth century a trio of discoverers, a Frenchman, a
German, and an Englishman, established the theory of the conservation of
energy. To the labours of Sadi Carnot, Mayer, and Joule is due our
knowledge of the fact that heat which, as a supposed entity, had
disturbed the physics and chemistry of the earlier centuries, was itself
another form of mechanical energy and could be measured like the rest. Later in the century another capital step in synthesis was taken by the
foundation of astrophysics, which rests on the identity of the physics
and chemistry of the heavenly bodies with those of the earth. The known universe thus becomes still more one. Later researches again,
especially those of Maxwell, tend to the identification of light and
heat with electricity, and in the last stage matter as a whole seems to
be swallowed up in motion. It is found that similar equations will
express all kinds of motion; that all are really various forms of the
motion of something which the mind postulates as the thing in motion; we
have in each case to deal with wave-movements of different length. The
broad change, therefore, which has taken place since the mechanics of
Newton is the advance from the consideration of masses to that of
molecules of smaller and smaller size, and the truth of the former is
not thereby invalidated. Newton, Descartes, Fresnel, Carnot, Joule,
Mayer, Faraday, Helmholtz, Maxwell appear as one great succession of
unifiers. All have been engaged in the same work of consolidating
thought at the same time that they extended it. Their conceptions of
force, mass, matter, ether, atom, molecule have provisional validity as
the imagined objective substratum of our experience, and the fact that
we analyse these conceptions still further and sometimes discard them,
does not in any way invalidate the law or general form in which they
have enabled us to sum up our experience and predict the future. But now we turn to the other side. In spite of the continued progress
noted on the mechanical side, it is true that the predominant scientific
interest changed in the nineteenth century from mechanics to biology,
from matter to life, from Newton to Darwin. Darwin was born in 1809, the
year in which Lamarck, who invented the term biology, published his
_Philosophie Zoologique_. The _Origin of Species_ appeared in 1858 after
the conservation of energy had been established, and the range and
influence of evolutionary biology have grown ever since. Before anything can be said of the conclusions in this branch of science
one preliminary remark has to be made. From the philosophical point of
view the science of life includes all other, for man is a living animal,
and science is the work of his co-operating mind, one of the functions
of his living activity. What this involves on the philosophical side
does not concern us here, but it is necessary to indicate here the
nature of the contact between the two great divisions of science, the
mechanical and the biological, considered purely as sciences.