[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: low-level laser therapy wound healing pain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: low-level laser therapy wound healing pain]

70. J Contemp Dent Pract. 2019 Jan 1;20(1):78-82.

Clinical Outcomes of Low-level Laser Therapy in Management of Advanced Implant 
Surgery Complications: A Comparative Clinical Study.

Pouremadi N(1), Motaghi A(2), Safdari R(3), Zarean P(4), Rashad A(5), Zarean 
P(6), Aminy S(7).

Author information:
(1)Isfahan (Khorasgan) Branch, Islamic Azad University, Isfahan, Islamic 
Republic of Iran.
(2)Department of Oral medicine, Isfahan (Khorasgan) Branch, Islamic Azad 
University, Isfahan, Islamic Republic of Iran.
(3)Isfahan (Khorasgan) Branch, Islamic Azad University, Isfahan, Islamic 
Republic of Iran, Mobile: +989133190901, e-mail: Safdari.roya@yahoo.com.
(4)Dental Implants Research Center, School of Dentistry, Isfahan University of 
Medical Scieneces, Isfahan, Islamic Republic of Iran.
(5)Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery, University Medical Center 
Hamburg-Eppendorf, Hamburg, Germany.
(6)Dental Research Center, School of Dentistry, Isfahan University of Medical 
Scieneces, Isfahan, Islamic Republic of Iran.
(7)Department of Periodontology, Isfahan (Khorasgan) Branch, Islamic Azad 
University, Isfahan, Islamic Republic of Iran.

INTRODUCTION: Nowadays, implant insertion is accompanied by undesired 
consequences. As surgery techniques become more and more complex, an increase of 
intra- and post-op complications can be expected. Application of low-level laser 
(LLL) is one of the conservative approaches to control the complications with 
any side effects and low treatment costs. The present study aimed to evaluate 
the effect of 650 nm LLL irradiation on the reduction of complications after 
advanced implant surgeries.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: In this triple-blinded clinical trial, 30 patients aged 
between 25 to 65 years were in need of bone graft or sinus lift procedure for 
simultaneously implant insertion. In the LLL treatment group, the surgical site 
of each implant was treated with 650 nm laser. The same method and duration were 
applied in the placebo group. The pain levels, facial swelling, and wound 
healing were evaluated.
RESULTS: This study indicated that pain levels were reduced in the laser group 
(p <0.05). Also, facial swelling in the 3rd and 7th day after the surgery 
relieved more in laser group. Furthermore, investigation of the surgical site 
showed a higher level of wound healing in the laser group (p <0.05).
CONCLUSION: Regarding the biological effects of advanced implant surgeries and 
accompanying complications, adjuvant treatment with a laser could significantly 
improve wound healing and reduce the severity and duration of pain and swelling.
CLINICAL SIGNIFICANCE: This clinical trial demonstrates reductions of the level 
of pain, facial swelling and improvements of wound healing are followed by the 
use of low-level laser therapy.

PMID: 31058617 [Indexed for MEDLINE]