[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: piezoelectric biosensor MEMS medical applications | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: piezoelectric biosensor MEMS medical applications]

2. Sensors (Basel). 2011;11(2):1433-60. doi: 10.3390/s110201433. Epub 2011 Jan
26.

MEMS-based power generation techniques for implantable biosensing applications.

Lueke J(1), Moussa WA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Mechanical Engineering, University of Alberta, University of 
Alberta, Edmonton, Alberta T6G 2G8, Canada. lueke@ualberta.ca

Implantable biosensing is attractive for both medical monitoring and diagnostic 
applications. It is possible to monitor phenomena such as physical loads on 
joints or implants, vital signs, or osseointegration in vivo and in real time. 
Microelectromechanical (MEMS)-based generation techniques can allow for the 
autonomous operation of implantable biosensors by generating electrical power to 
replace or supplement existing battery-based power systems. By supplementing 
existing battery-based power systems for implantable biosensors, the operational 
lifetime of the sensor is increased. In addition, the potential for a greater 
amount of available power allows additional components to be added to the 
biosensing module, such as computational and wireless and components, improving 
functionality and performance of the biosensor. Photovoltaic, thermovoltaic, 
micro fuel cell, electrostatic, electromagnetic, and piezoelectric based 
generation schemes are evaluated in this paper for applicability for implantable 
biosensing. MEMS-based generation techniques that harvest ambient energy, such 
as vibration, are much better suited for implantable biosensing applications 
than fuel-based approaches, producing up to milliwatts of electrical power. High 
power density MEMS-based approaches, such as piezoelectric and electromagnetic 
schemes, allow for supplemental and replacement power schemes for biosensing 
applications to improve device capabilities and performance. In addition, this 
may allow for the biosensor to be further miniaturized, reducing the need for 
relatively large batteries with respect to device size. This would cause the 
implanted biosensor to be less invasive, increasing the quality of care received 
by the patient.

DOI: 10.3390/s110201433
PMCID: PMC3274013
PMID: 22319362 [Indexed for MEDLINE]