[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: magnetic resonance spectroscopy metabolite brain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: magnetic resonance spectroscopy metabolite brain]

60. J Pak Med Assoc. 2017 Jun;67(6):912-916.

Magnetic resonance spectroscopy and magnetic resonance spectroscopic imaging in 
Cerebral Autosomal-Dominant Arteriopathy with Subcortical Infarcts and 
Leukoencephalopathy: A literature review.

Farooq Sheikh AS(1), Mohamed MA(2).

Author information:
(1)King Edward Medical University, Pakistan.
(2)Johns Hopkins University, USA.

This review focuses on the current literature directed towards the brain 
metabolite findings in Cerebral Autosomal-Dominant Arteriopathy with Subcortical 
Infarcts and Leukoencephalopathy (CADASIL) disease using magnetic resonance 
spectroscopy (MRS) and magnetic resonance spectroscopic imaging (MRSI). Using 
search terms "metabolites", "spectroscopy", and "CADASIL", six articles were 
found on PubMed database, Scopus and Google Scholar. Changes in metabolites 
concentrations and relative ratios (RR) were found not only in abnormal but also 
in normal-appearing brain regions.

PMID: 28585592 [Indexed for MEDLINE]61. NMR Biomed. 2023 Feb;36(2):e4833. doi: 10.1002/nbm.4833. Epub 2022 Oct 19.

High-field ex vivo and in vivo two-dimensional nuclear magnetic resonance 
spectroscopy in murine brain: Resolving and exploring the molecular environment.

Martinho RP(1), Jain MG(1), Frydman L(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical and Biological Physics, Weizmann Institute of Science, 
Rehovot, Israel.

The structural and chemical complexities within the brain pose a challenge that 
few noninvasive techniques can tackle with the dexterity of nuclear magnetic 
resonance (NMR) spectroscopy. Still, even with the advent of ultrahigh fields 
and of cryogenically cooled coils for in vivo research, the superposition of 
metabolic resonances arising from the brain remains a challenge. The present 
study explores the potential to tackle this milieu using a combination of 
two-dimensional (2D) NMR techniques, implemented on murine brains in vivo at 
15.2 T and ex vivo at 14.1 T. While both experiments were affected by 
substantial inhomogeneous broadenings conveying distinct elongated lineshapes to 
the cross-peaks, the ability of increased fields to resolve off-diagonal 
resonances was clear. A comparison between the corresponding conventional and 
double quantum-filtered correlated spectroscopy traces enabled an improved 
assignment of in vivo resonances on the basis of more sensitive ex vivo 2D 
acquisitions, foremost on the basis of homonuclear cross-relaxation-driven 
correlations for peaks resonating downfield from water, and of heteronuclear 
correlations at natural abundance for the upfield protons. With the aid of such 
2D correlations approximately 29 metabolites could be resolved and identified. 
This enhanced resolution was used to explore features related to the 
metabolites' diffusivities, their exposure to water, and their facility to 
undergo magnetization transfers to amide/amine/hydroxyl resonances. Cross-peaks 
from main murine brain biomolecules, including choline, creatine, γ-aminobutyric 
acid, N-acetyl aspartate, glutamine, and glutamate, showed enhancements in 
several of these various features, opening interesting vistas about metabolite 
compartmentalization as viewed by these 2D NMR experiments.

© 2022 The Authors. NMR in Biomedicine published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/nbm.4833
PMCID: PMC10077987
PMID: 36114827 [Indexed for MEDLINE]