[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS neurology | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS neurology]

41. Neurotherapeutics. 2017 Jan;14(1):91-106. doi: 10.1007/s13311-016-0487-6.

Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation for the Assessment of Neurodegenerative 
Disease.

Vucic S(1), Kiernan MC(2).

Author information:
(1)Westmead Clinical School, University of Sydney, Sydney, Australia.
(2)Bushell Chair of Neurology, Brain and Mind Centre, University of Sydney, 
Camperdown, Australia. matthew.kiernan@sydney.edu.au.

Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) is a noninvasive technique that has 
provided important information about cortical function across an array of 
neurodegenerative disorders, including Alzheimer's disease, frontotemporal 
dementia, Parkinson's disease, and related extrapyramidal disorders. Application 
of TMS techniques in neurodegenerative diseases has provided important 
pathophysiological insights, leading to the development of pathogenic and 
diagnostic biomarkers that could be used in the clinical setting and therapeutic 
trials. Abnormalities of TMS outcome measures heralding cortical 
hyperexcitability, as evidenced by a reduction of short-interval intracortical 
inhibition and increased in motor-evoked potential amplitude, have been 
consistently identified as early and intrinsic features of amyotrophic lateral 
sclerosis (ALS), preceding and correlating with the ensuing neurodegeneration. 
Cortical hyperexcitability appears to form the pathogenic basis of ALS, mediated 
by trans-synaptic glutamate-mediated excitotoxic mechanisms. As a consequence of 
these research findings, TMS has been developed as a potential diagnostic 
biomarker, capable of identifying upper motor neuronal pathology, at earlier 
stages of the disease process, and thereby aiding in ALS diagnosis. Of further 
relevance, marked TMS abnormalities have been reported in other 
neurodegenerative diseases, which have varied from findings in ALS. With time 
and greater utilization by clinicians, TMS outcome measures may prove to be of 
utility in future therapeutic trial settings across the neurodegenerative 
disease spectrum, including the monitoring of neuroprotective, stem-cell, and 
genetic-based strategies, thereby enabling assessment of biological 
effectiveness at early stages of drug development.

DOI: 10.1007/s13311-016-0487-6
PMCID: PMC5233629
PMID: 27830492 [Indexed for MEDLINE]