[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS neurology | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS neurology]

27. Adv Neurobiol. 2023;31:119-139. doi: 10.1007/978-3-031-26220-3_7.

Applications of Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation for Understanding and Treating 
Dystonia.

Frey J(1), Ramirez-Zamora A(1), Wagle Shukla A(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Fixel Institute for Neurological Diseases, 
University of Florida, Gainesville, FL, USA.
(2)Department of Neurology, Fixel Institute for Neurological Diseases, 
University of Florida, Gainesville, FL, USA. aparna.shukla@neurology.ufl.edu.

Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS)-based studies have led to an advanced 
understanding of the pathophysiology of dystonia. This narrative review 
summarizes the TMS data contributed to the literature so far. Many studies have 
shown that increased motor cortex excitability, excessive sensorimotor 
plasticity, and abnormal sensorimotor integration are the core 
pathophysiological substrates for dystonia. However, an increasing body of 
evidence supports a more widespread network dysfunction involving many other 
brain regions. Repetitive TMS pulses (rTMS) in dystonia have therapeutic 
potential as they can induce local and network-wide effects through modulation 
of excitability and plasticity. The bulk of rTMS studies has targeted the 
premotor cortex with some promising results in focal hand dystonia. Some studies 
have targeted the cerebellum for cervical dystonia and the anterior cingulate 
cortex for blepharospasm. We believe that therapeutic potential could be 
leveraged better when rTMS is implemented in conjunction with standard-of-care 
pharmacological treatments. However, due to several limitations in the studies 
conducted to date, including small samples, heterogeneous populations, 
variability in the target sites, and inconsistencies in the study design and 
control arm, it is hard to draw a definite conclusion. Further studies are 
warranted to determine optimal targets and protocols yielding the most 
beneficial outcomes that will translate into meaningful clinical changes.

© 2023. Springer Nature Switzerland AG.

DOI: 10.1007/978-3-031-26220-3_7
PMID: 37338699 [Indexed for MEDLINE]