[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: Linda Long | Type: Instruction-QA | Level: Graduate]

Question: Provide a comprehensive expert-level explanation of Linda Long in the context of Applied Sciences.

Answer:
Linda Long is a biochemist and musician, who has combined these two fields to create what she terms molecular music.

Life
Long worked as a biochemist and a Research Fellow in Complementary Medicine at Exeter University, specialising in the fields of homeopathy, herbal medicine and music therapy. Her work has been published in various medical journals, and she is an associate editor of the Journal Focus on Alternative and Complementary Therapies, published by the Royal Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain. She has been working on molecular music since the 1990s.

She has been awarded an Invention and Innovation award over two years by NESTA. This has enabled her to develop her promotion of music in education, as well as to release two CDs of her music: Music of the Plants and Music of the Body. The award has also helped her develop an exhibit at Explore @Bristol.

Molecular music
Molecular music involves the translation of the 3-dimensional positions of a protein's amino acids into note sequences. This is not an arbitrary process; x-ray crystallography data is used to relate specific musical effects such as volume and pitch to the protein's molecular structure. In this way, characteristic patterns in protein structure are heard as recognisable musical note patterns from the structural data.

This method of translating protein structures into music is said by Long to be a useful aid in understanding proteins for the visually impaired.

Discography
Music of the Plants (1999) is a CD of five tracks. Conventional track titling is eschewed in favour of a description of the specific protein used for each track:

 Pokeweed Phytolacca americana pokeweed antiviral protein 
 White mustard Sinapis alba myrosinase
 Parsley Petroselinum crispum plastocyanin (electron transport protein)
 Clover Trifolium repens cyanogenic β-glucosidase
 Jimson weed Datura stramonium tropinone reductase

Music of the Body (2002) is a longer CD, and the tracks have titles related to their relevant protein's function. as the title implies, all the proteins are found in the human body.

 Absorb and Balance - thyrotropin
 Voice of Metabolism - thyroid hormone
 Calcium Chimes - parathyroid hormone
 Mineral Replenish - guanylin
 Growth Control - somatostatin
 Music for Muscle and Bone - growth hormone
 Inner Cycles - progesterone receptor protein
 Nurture - chorionic gonadotrophin
 Fertility - Follitropin

See also
 The molecular music website
 NESTA award
 A list of other scientists doing similar work
 Hypnotherapy using molecular music

References

Academics of the University of Exeter
British biochemists
New-age musicians
Living people
Women biochemists
20th-century British women scientists
21st-century British women scientists
Year of birth missing (living people)