[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: natural product antibiotic drug discovery | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: natural product antibiotic drug discovery]

80. Curr Opin Microbiol. 2022 Oct;69:102190. doi: 10.1016/j.mib.2022.102190. Epub
 2022 Aug 10.

A brief guide to machine learning for antibiotic discovery.

Liu G(1), Stokes JM(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Biomedical Sciences, McMaster University, 
Hamilton, Ontario, Canada; Michael G. DeGroote Institute for Infectious Disease 
Research, McMaster University, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada; David Braley Centre 
for Antibiotic Discovery, McMaster University, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada.
(2)Department of Biochemistry and Biomedical Sciences, McMaster University, 
Hamilton, Ontario, Canada; Michael G. DeGroote Institute for Infectious Disease 
Research, McMaster University, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada; David Braley Centre 
for Antibiotic Discovery, McMaster University, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada. 
Electronic address: stokesjm@mcmaster.ca.

Rising antibiotic resistance and an alarmingly lean antibiotic pipeline require 
the adoption of novel approaches to rapidly discover new structural and 
functional classes of antibiotics. Excitingly, algorithmic approaches to 
antibiotic discovery are sufficiently advanced to meaningfully influence the 
antibiotic discovery process. Indeed, once trained on high-quality datasets, 
contemporary machine-learning and deep-learning models can be used to perform 
predictions for new antibiotics across vast chemical spaces, orders of magnitude 
more rapidly than compounds can be screened in the laboratory. This increases 
the probability of discovering new antibiotics with desirable properties. In 
this short review, we briefly describe the utility of contemporary 
machine-learning and deep-learning approaches to guide the discovery of new 
small-molecule antibiotics and unidentified natural products. We then propose a 
call to action for more open sharing of high-quality screening datasets to 
accelerate the rate at which forthcoming antibiotic-prediction models can be 
trained. Together, we aim to introduce antibiotic discoverers to a sample of 
recent applications of contemporary algorithmic methods to facilitate the wider 
adoption of these powerful computational approaches.

Copyright © 2022 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mib.2022.102190
PMID: 35963098 [Indexed for MEDLINE]