[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: Iris cristata | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Iris cristata — Overview

(t412) in 1798, then in 'Addisonia' Volume 9, Issue 4 on page 63 in December 1924 with a coloured illustration, as well as in the 'Journal of the RHS' Volume 88 in 1963. It was verified by United States Department of Agriculture and the Agricultural Research Service on 11 April 2000, then updated on 1 December 2004. Iris cristata is an accepted name by the RHS. Distribution and habitat
It is native to temperate regions of United States of America. Range
It is found in North eastern U.S.A., within the states of Indiana, Ohio, Pennsylvania, and West Virginia. In North-Central U.S.A., within the states of Illinois, Iowa, Missouri, and Oklahoma. In South eastern U.S.A., within the states of Alabama, Arkansas, District of Columbia, Georgia,-->

It is found within the Ouachita mountains, Allegheny Mountains, Appalachian and Ozark Mountains. The range is south of where the Wisconsinan glaciation spread about 11,000 years ago. Habitat
It grows in calcareous soils, in oak woodlands (or forests), on rocky hillsides, in ravines, on mountain ledges (and bluffs), and along streams. Conservation
Iris cristata is listed as 'endangered' in Maryland and Pennsylvania. Cultivation

It is hardy to between USDA Zone 3 and Zone 9, and is hardy to European Zone H2. Meaning it is hardy down to −20 °C. It prefers to grow in well-drained soils, that are neutral or slightly acidic (pH level of 6.1 to 6.5). It also prefers medium to high fertile soils containing humus. Although, it will tolerate loamy soils. It can tolerate shade or full sun, but prefers cool, semi-shaded positions. It has average to above average water needs during the growing season. It becomes dormant in winter. It can be grown in a mixed flower border, or rock garden. It also can be naturalized, within a woodland garden, creating ground-cover. It can also be grown on peat banks, with other acidic loving plants, including camellias and azaleas. It is normally recommended to add peat (or leaf-mould) and sharp sand (or grit) when planting new plants. The roots should be planted (during Spring or Summer or Autumn), so that the top of the rhizome is about 3–5 cm below the soil line. Once planted, they can be surrounded with leaf mulch, to help with moisture retention. They can suffer from damage by snails and slugs. They also can suffer damage from deer, but the plants can survive the nibbling, and flowers can also be eaten. Other minor threats include; Iris borer, verbena bud moth, whiteflies, iris weevil, thrips,  aphids, and nematodes. Bacterial leaf blight and soft rot, crown rot, rhizome rot, leaf spot, rust, viruses, and scorch. Grown in ideal conditions, the plants can live for up to 10 years. Smaller, poorer and paler forms were originally mistakenly thought to be Iris lacustris. They can be found in plenty of reputable nurseries in the US, but it is rarely offered on sale, in Europe. Propagation
It can be propagated by division or by seed growing. Since, the plant needs to be frequently divided every 3 to 4 years, to keep the plant healthy and vigorous. It is easier and more reliable to propagate via division. This is best done in the early fall (or Autumn), when the leaves have turned yellow. The rhizome should be split into hand-sized clumps to allow for plenty of new growth to occur. The new plants should be kept moist until established, they also can be mulched (with a maximum of 4 inches deep) to help with water retention. If propagating by seed. Seeds are collected from the ripe brown capsules after flowering. They should be sown on acid or slightly acidic soil. The process of seedling to flowering plant, can take up to 3 years to mature and flower. Hybrids and cultivars

Iris cristata has many different cultivars. Including; Iris cristata 'Alba' (a white flowering form), 'Abbey's Violet', 'Azure', 'Baby Blue', 'Caerulea' (deep blue blooms), 'Celestial Gem', 'Crested Fairy', 'Crested Gem', 'Crested Ivory', 'Crest Of Hope', 'Cristata Alba', 'Cristata Major', 'McDonald', 'Cumberland Gap', 'Dash It All', 'Dick Butler', ‘Echo Ruffles’ (large purple blooms), 'Eco Little Bluebird', 'Eco Orchid Giant', 'Eco Purple Pomp', 'Eco Royal Ruffles', 'Eco White Angel', 'Edgar Anderson', 'Eyed Form', 'Gold Crest', 'Little Jay', 'Major', 'Millard', 'Navy Blue Gem', 'Pearl White', 'Pink', 'Powder Blue Giant', 'Shenandoah Sky',(pale blue blooms) 'Scio County', 'Skylands', 'Stormy Sky', 'Summer Sky' (deep blue blooms),  'Summer Storm',  'Tennessee White',(a white form)'Vein Mountain', 'Whisper' and 'White Pearl'. Toxicity
Like many other irises, most parts of the plant are poisonous (rhizome and leaves), if mistakenly ingested can cause stomach pains and vomiting. Also handling the plant may cause a skin irritation or an allergic reaction. Also risk of Dermatitis. Uses
It has been listed as a medicinal plant. It has been used by the Cherokee North American Indians in herbal medicines. A decoction of the pulverized root was used as salve for ulcers. An infusion (tea) taken for liver.