[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: photodynamic therapy cancer clinical trial | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: photodynamic therapy cancer clinical trial]

43. Drugs Aging. 1999 Jul;15(1):49-68. doi: 10.2165/00002512-199915010-00005.

Photodynamic therapy: a review.

McCaughan JS Jr(1).

Author information:
(1)Laser Medical Research Foundation and Grant Laser Center, Columbus, Ohio 
43215, USA. jmccaughan@iwaynet.net

Photodynamic therapy (PDT) of malignant tumours is a new technique for treating 
cancers. After intravenous injection, a photosensitiser is selectively retained 
by the tumour cells so after time there is more sensitiser in the tumour than in 
the normal adjacent tissue. The photosensitiser must be able to absorb the 
wavelength of light being delivered to it, and the amount of light getting to 
the photosensitiser depends on the characteristics of the tissue it passes 
through. When exposed to light with the proper wavelength, the sensitiser 
produces an activated oxygen species, singlet oxygen, that oxidises critical 
elements of neoplastic cells. Because there is less sensitiser in the adjacent 
normal tissue, less reaction occurs to it. Since this is an entirely different 
process, the use of chemotherapy, ionising radiation or surgery does not 
preclude the use of PDT. Also, unlike ionising irradiation, repeated injections 
and treatments can be made indefinitely. Different molecules and atoms absorb 
different wavelengths of energy. Since the light energy must be absorbed to 
start the photochemical reaction, the absorption spectrum of the photosensitiser 
determines the wavelength used to initiate the reaction. However, this can be 
qualified by the tissue the light has to travel through to get to the 
photosensitiser. The photosensitiser porfimer sodium has a peak absorption in 
the area of 405 nm (blue-violet) and a much lower absorption peak at 630 nm 
(red). However, because the longer red wavelength penetrates tissue deeper than 
405 nm, we use the red wavelength, usually delivered from a laser system. This 
permits coupling of the red light beam to quartz fibres which can then be used 
with modifications to treat external surface tumours, inserted interstitially 
directly into large tumours, passed though any endoscope to treat intraluminal 
tumours, or inserted behind the retina to treat tumours of the retina. Twenty 
years after the pioneering work of Dr. Thomas Doherty, the US Food and Drug 
Administration (FDA) has approved the use of porfimer sodium for photodynamic 
therapy of endobronchial and oesophageal tumours. Research continues towards 
approval for management of skin cancers and metastatic cutaneous and 
subcutaneous breast cancers. The realisation that one of the mechanisms of 
photodynamic therapy is thrombosis of vessels led to the development of 
verteporfin to treat macular degeneration. Multiple other areas are being 
investigated as well as new photosensitisers. Photodynamic therapy is an 
entirely new treatment modality and its development can be likened to that of 
the discovery of antibiotics. This is just the beginning, and its possible uses 
are only limited by the imagination.

DOI: 10.2165/00002512-199915010-00005
PMID: 10459732 [Indexed for MEDLINE]