[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: ethnobotany traditional medicine biological activi | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: ethnobotany traditional medicine biological activity]

99. J Ethnopharmacol. 2016 Aug 2;189:361-85. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2016.06.057. Epub
 2016 Jul 1.

The rhizome of Gastrodia elata Blume - An ethnopharmacological review.

Zhan HD(1), Zhou HY(1), Sui YP(2), Du XL(3), Wang WH(1), Dai L(1), Sui F(4), Huo 
HR(5), Jiang TL(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Chinese Materia Medica, China Academy of Chinese Medical 
Sciences, Beijing 100700, China.
(2)Department of Neurology, Beijing Tiantan Hospital, Capital Medical 
University, Beijing 100050, China.
(3)Graduate School of China Academy of Chinese Medical Sciences, Beijing 100700, 
China.
(4)Institute of Chinese Materia Medica, China Academy of Chinese Medical 
Sciences, Beijing 100700, China. Electronic address: fsui@icmm.ac.cn.
(5)Institute of Chinese Materia Medica, China Academy of Chinese Medical 
Sciences, Beijing 100700, China. Electronic address: hrhuo@icmm.ac.cn.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Gastrodia elata Blume (Orchidaceae) is commonly 
called Tian ma in Chinese and mainly distributed in the mountainous areas of 
eastern Asia, such as China, Korea, Japan and India. It is an extensively used 
traditional Chinese herbal medicine in the clinical practice of traditional 
Chinese medicine, to treat headache, migraine, dizziness, epilepsy, infantile 
convulsion, tetany and so on. The present paper reviews the advancements in 
investigation of botany and ethnopharmacology, phytochemistry, pharmacology, 
toxicology and quality control of Gastrodia elata Blume. Finally, the possible 
tendency and perspective for future investigation of this plant are also put 
forward.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The information on Gastrodia elata Blume was collected 
via piles of resources including classic books about Chinese herbal medicine, 
and scientific databases including Pubmed, Google Scholar, ACS, Web of science, 
ScienceDirect databases, CNKI and others. Plant taxonomy was validated by the 
databases "The Plant List", and "Mansfeld's Encyclopedia".
RESULTS: Over 81 compounds from this plant have been isolated and identified, 
phenolics and polysaccharides are generally considered as the characteristic and 
active constituents of Gastrodia elata Blume. Its active compounds possess 
wide-reaching biological activities, including sedative, hypnotic, 
antiepileptic, anticonvulsive, antianxietic, antidepressant, neuroprotective, 
antipsychotic, anti-vertigo, circulatory system modulating, 
anti-inflammationary, analgesic, antioxidative, memory-improving and antiaging, 
antivirus and antitumor effects.
CONCLUSION: Despite the publication of various papers on Gastrodia elata Blume, 
there is still, however, the need for definitive research and clarification of 
other bioactive compounds using bioactivity-guided isolation strategies, and the 
possible mechanism of action as well as potential synergistic or antagonistic 
effects of multi-component mixtures derived from Gastrodia elata Blume need to 
be evaluated. It is also necessary and important to do more quality control and 
toxicological study on human subjects in order to maintain its efficacy stable 
in the body and validate its safety in clinical uses. In addition, more 
investigations on other parts of this plant beyond the tubers are needed. 
Further studies on Gastrodia elata Blume will lead to the development of new 
drugs and therapeutics for various diseases, and how to utilize it better should 
be paid more attention to.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2016.06.057
PMID: 27377337 [Indexed for MEDLINE]