[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: phytotherapy systematic review clinical evidence | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: phytotherapy systematic review clinical evidence]

95. J Altern Complement Med. 2018 Aug;24(8):770-780. doi: 10.1089/acm.2018.0001. 
Epub 2018 Apr 11.

Kava for Generalized Anxiety Disorder: A Review of Current Evidence.

Ooi SL(1), Henderson P(2), Pak SC(2).

Author information:
(1)1 Centre for Complementary and Alternative Medicine , Singapore, Singapore .
(2)2 School of Biomedical Sciences, Charles Sturt University , Bathurst, 
Australia .

BACKGROUND: Generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) is a chronic and debilitating 
condition characterized by persistent and overpowering anxiety. Treatment of GAD 
with antidepressants and benzodiazepines is only moderately effective and not 
free from side effects. Kava (Piper methysticum) has been explored as a 
potential phytotherapeutic option for GAD.
OBJECTIVES: To perform a systematic review and meta-analysis of the available 
evidence on Kava as a treatment for GAD.
METHODS: Systematic search of English-language publications from major databases 
for clinical trials reporting the effects of Kava for the treatment of GAD.
RESULTS: Twelve articles were included in this review. Evidence supporting Kava 
as an effective treatment for GAD was found in two placebo-controlled trials and 
a reference-controlled trial. One negative trial demonstrated that Kava was not 
more effective than placebo. Meta-analyses of the results of three 
placebo-controlled trials (n = 130) favored Kava for GAD treatment with effect 
sizes between 0.59 and 0.99 (standard mean difference) without reaching 
statistical significance. Kava is an appealing treatment option to GAD patients 
who are more attune to natural remedies or lifestyle approaches to reduce 
stress. Positive patient experiences and improvement of vagal cardiac control 
due to Kava treatment were also reported in the literature. Kava is safe and 
well tolerated for short-term (4-8 weeks) therapeutic use at a dosage of 
120-280 mg per day of Kavalactones, regardless of dosage schedule.
CONCLUSIONS: Current evidence, although promising, is insufficient to confirm 
the effect of Kava for GAD treatment beyond placebo. New evidence is expected 
from a large, multisite ongoing trial.

DOI: 10.1089/acm.2018.0001
PMID: 29641222 [Indexed for MEDLINE]