[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: phytotherapy systematic review clinical evidence | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: phytotherapy systematic review clinical evidence]

7. Phytother Res. 2020 Oct;34(10):2493-2517. doi: 10.1002/ptr.6701. Epub 2020 Apr
 20.

Herbal treatments for migraine: A systematic review of randomised-controlled 
studies.

Lopresti AL(1)(2), Smith SJ(1)(2), Drummond PD(2).

Author information:
(1)Clinical Research Australia, Perth, Western Australia, Australia.
(2)College of Science, Health, Engineering and Education, Murdoch University, 
Perth, Western Australia, Australia.

Herbal treatments are often used as a treatment for migraine. Therefore, an 
evaluation of their safety and efficacy is important. Based on the Preferred 
Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses guidelines, and 
Cochrane Collaboration's tool for assessing the risk of bias, a systematic 
literature review of randomised, controlled human trials assessing the effects 
of herbal treatments delivered as a single ingredient for the acute or 
prophylactic treatment of migraine were conducted. Studies were identified 
through electronic database searches on Medline (Pubmed), Cochrane Library, 
Scopus, and CINAHL. Nineteen studies were identified examining the effects on 
migraine of feverfew, butterbur, curcumin, menthol/peppermint oil, coriander, 
citron, Damask rose, chamomile, and lavender. Overall, findings on the efficacy 
of feverfew were mixed and there was positive, albeit limited evidence for 
butterbur. There were positive, preliminary findings on curcumin, citron, and 
coriander as a prophylactic treatment for migraine, and the use of menthol and 
chamomile as an acute treatment. However, the risk of bias was high for many 
studies. The results of this systematic review suggest that several herbal 
medicines, via their multifactorial physiological influences, present as 
potential options to enhance the treatment of migraine. However, further 
high-quality research is essential to examine their efficacy and safety as a 
treatment for migraine.

© 2020 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/ptr.6701
PMID: 32310327 [Indexed for MEDLINE]