[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: cannabis cannabidiol therapeutic epilepsy pain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: cannabis cannabidiol therapeutic epilepsy pain]

50. Pharmacol Res Perspect. 2020 Dec;8(6):e00682. doi: 10.1002/prp2.682.

Diversity of molecular targets and signaling pathways for CBD.

de Almeida DL(1)(2), Devi LA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacological Sciences, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount 
Sinai, One Gustave L. Levy Place, New York, NY, USA.
(2)Department of Pharmacology, Institute of Biological Sciences, UFMG, Av. 
Antônio Carlos, Belo Horizonte, Brazil.

Cannabidiol (CBD) is the second most abundant component of the Cannabis plant 
and is known to have effects distinct from Δ9 -tetrahydrocannabinol (THC). Many 
studies that examined the behavioral effects of CBD concluded that it lacks the 
psychotomimetic effects attributed to THC. However, CBD was shown to have a 
broad spectrum of effects on several conditions such as anxiety, inflammation, 
neuropathic pain, and epilepsy. It is currently thought that CBD engages 
different targets and hence CBD's effects are thought to be due to multiple 
molecular mechanisms of action. A well-accepted set of targets include GPCRs and 
ion channels, with the serotonin 5-HT1A receptor and the transient receptor 
potential cation channel TRPV1 channel being the two main targets. CBD has also 
been thought to target G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) such as cannabinoid 
and opioid receptors. Other studies have suggested a role for additional GPCRs 
and ion channels as targets of CBD. Currently, the clinical efficacy of CBD is 
not completely understood. Evidence derived from randomized clinical trials, in 
vitro and in vivo models and real-world observations support the use of CBD as a 
drug treatment option for anxiety, neuropathy, and many other conditions. Hence 
an understanding of the current status of the field as it relates to the targets 
for CBD is of great interest so, in this review, we include findings from recent 
studies that highlight these main targets.

© 2020 The Authors. Pharmacology Research & Perspectives published by John Wiley 
& Sons Ltd, British Pharmacological Society and American Society for 
Pharmacology and Experimental Therapeutics.

DOI: 10.1002/prp2.682
PMCID: PMC7652785
PMID: 33169541 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: All authors have no conflict of interest to 
disclose.