[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: Carlyle House | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Carlyle House — Overview

and nurses were mostly female, but at the time there were not many female medical doctors in the country. During the Civil War, this house and the city of Alexandria itself, that once used slave force, became one of the principal centers that supported the fight against slavery and hold a key role in the abolition of slavery in the United States in the 19th century. World War I and World War II

During the World War I the house became a museum, and was located two blocks from the U.S. Naval Torpedo Station in Alexandria. By the mid-twentieth cen,tury the building was in a state of great disrepair due to a lack of proper er maintenance. House owners

In 1749 half-acre (lots 41 and 42) were auctioned in Alexandria, Virginia, John Carlyle bought them and completed the house in 1753, he was the owner until 1780, when he was killed during American Revolution. John Carlyle's son, George William Carlyle, became the owner of the house in 1780 after his father's death, but he died the following year in the Battle of Eutaw Springs during the American Revolutionary War. In 1781 John Carlyle Herbert (John Carlyle's grandson) inherited Carlyle House in 1781, since his mother Sarah Carlyle Fairfax (John Carlyle's daughter) was a woman, and women were not allowed to own land in the United States at the time (until it was allowed by law in 1839). She died in 1827, and the house was sold to John Lloyd in 1827 by John Carlyle Herbert to pay off one of his uncle's gambling debt. John Lloyd rented the area until it was sold in 1848 to James Green and part of the area became the Green Hotel for a decade until i was confiscated for a year by the Union and was converted into a Hospital during the Civil War in the United States, in 1965 it was returned to James Green, it became an apartment building in the early 20th century. In 1865 the hotel was returned to the Green family. After Green's death in 1880, the hotel and the Carlyle House along with it, changed hands frequently and was acquired by new proprietors and renamed as Braddock House. It was not until 1906, when the buildings were bought by Earnest Wagar, that a major restoration of the house as a historic site was commenced. NOVA Parks acquired the house and apartments in 1970 and fully restored the house in 1976 as part of United States Bicentennial celebration. Carlyle House Historic Park

Carlyle House was renamed to Carlyle House Historic Park and is owned, protected, and operated by the NOVA Parks Agency of Northern Virginia. The park was created by the demolition of two-thirds of the dilapidated Mansion House Hospital (1840, expanded 1855) that was located in front of the house, leaving behind the original Bank of Alexandria building (1807), still extant at 133 North Fairfax Street. Carlyle House restoration

In 1969, the decision was made by the Northern Virginia Regional Park Authority to acquire and restore the property as a public national historic site. A survey of the site and existing buildings was initiated in October, 1970. On July 17, 1970, the Authority acquired the Carlyle Apartments for $305,000. The house itself was purchased for $193,000 in 1971 and the remaining portion of the land for $210,000 the following year. Significant restoration work to the house was undertaken in the early and mid 1970s. The house was planned to be turn down and reconstruct, but a technique to support the building was chosen instead to preserve all the details. The cat's remains were discovered during restoration work in the 1970s and the remains were put back in their original place in the basement of the house. The restoration of the house and gardens was then directed by Beth R. Sundquist, project director, under the supervision of the Authority's executive director, William M. Lightsey. The project involved tearing down the apartments (also known as the Braddock Hotel), once again exposing Carlyle House to North Fairfax Street, and then turning the mansion itself into an 18th-century museum. This meant not only rehabilitating the structure as authentically as possible, but also tracking down and purchasing original fixtures and furniture, where possible, or acquiring equivalent examples from the period. About a dozen pieces believed to have been in the house during the Carlyle family's occupancy were recovered by the time the house was opened to the public on January 23, 1976. The park, which opened in January 1976, includes the 18th-century Carlyle House mansion and its gardens, listed on the National Register of Historic Places. Events

The "Grandest Congress" is a reenactment celebrating General Braddock's time at the house that takes place on April 15 of every year at the Carlyle House. "Yoga on the Magnolia Terrace" are Yoga Classes hold at the Magnolia Terrace every Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday at 6 P.M. starting in April and ending in October of each year. In popular culture

James Phinney Munroe edited and published in 1904 the book Adventures of an Army Nurse in Two Wars based on the diaries and correspondence of Mary Phinney von Olnhausen.