[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: natural product antibiotic drug discovery | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: natural product antibiotic drug discovery]

36. Chem Biodivers. 2022 Nov;19(11):e202200267. doi: 10.1002/cbdv.202200267. Epub
 2022 Oct 28.

Combined Bioinformatics and Combinatorial Chemistry Tools to Locate Drug-Able 
Anti-TB Phytochemicals: A Cost-Effective Platform for Natural Product-Based Drug 
Discovery.

Swain SS(1), Hussain T(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Microbiology and NCDs, ICMR-Regional Medical Research Center, 
Bhubaneswar, 751023, Odisha, India.

Based on extensive experimental studies, a huge number of phytochemicals showed 
potential activity against tuberculosis (TB) at a lower minimum inhibitory 
concentration (MIC) and fewer toxicity profiles. However, these promising drugs 
have not been able to convert from 'lead' to 'mainstream' due to inadequate 
drug-ability profiles. Thus, early drug-prospective analyses are required at the 
primary stage to accelerate natural-product-based drug discovery with limited 
resources and time. In the present study, we have selected seventy-three 
potential anti-TB phytochemicals (MIC value ≤10 μg/mL) and assessed the 
drug-ability profiles using bioinformatics and combinatorial chemistry tools, 
systematically. Primarily, the molecular docking study was done against two 
putative drug targets, catalase-peroxidase enzyme (katG) and RNA polymerase 
subunit-β (rpoB) of Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) using AutoDock 4.2 
software. Further, assessed the drug-ability score from Molsoft, toxicity 
profiles from ProTox, pharmacokinetics from SwisADME, hierarchical cluster 
analysis (HCA) by ChemMine tools and frontier molecular orbitals (FMOs) with 
Avogadro and structural activity relationships (SAR) analysis with ChemDraw 18.0 
software. Above analyses indicated that, lower MIC exhibited anti-TB 
phytochemicals, abietane, 12-demethylmulticaulin exhibited poor docking and 
drug-ability scores, while tiliacorinine, 2-nortiliacorinine showed higher 
binding energy and drug-ability profiles. Overall, tiliacorinine, 
2-nortiliacorinine, 7α-acetoxy-6β-hydroxyroyleanone (AHR), (2S)-naringenin and 
isovachhalcone were found as the most active and drug-able anti-TB candidates 
from 73 candidates. Phytochemicals are always a vital source of mainstream 
drugs, but the MIC value of a phytochemical is not sufficient for it to be 
promoted. An ideal drug-ability profile is therefore essential for achieving 
clinical success, where advanced bioinformatics tools help to assess and analyse 
that profile. Additionally, several natural pharmacophores found in existing 
anti-TB drugs in SAR analyses also provide crucial information for developing 
potential anti-TB drug. As a conclusion, combined bioinformatics and 
combinatorial chemistry are the most effective strategies to locate 
potent-cum-drug-able candidates in the current drug-development module.

© 2022 Wiley-VHCA AG, Zurich, Switzerland.

DOI: 10.1002/cbdv.202200267
PMID: 36307750 [Indexed for MEDLINE]