[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: optical coherence tomography retinal diagnosis | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: optical coherence tomography retinal diagnosis]

57. Retina. 2012 Sep;32(8):1581-91. doi: 10.1097/IAE.0b013e318242b838.

Optical coherence tomography in retinitis pigmentosa: reproducibility and 
capacity to detect macular and retinal nerve fiber layer thickness alterations.

Garcia-Martin E(1), Pinilla I, Sancho E, Almarcegui C, Dolz I, Rodriguez-Mena D, 
Fuertes I, Cuenca N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Miguel Servet University Hospital, Zaragoza, 
Spain. egmvivax@yahoo.com

PURPOSE: To evaluate the ability of time-domain and Fourier-domain optical 
coherence tomographies (OCTs) to detect macular and retinal nerve fiber layer 
atrophies in retinitis pigmentosa (RP). To test the intrasession reproducibility 
using three OCT instruments (Stratus, Cirrus, and Spectralis).
METHODS: Eighty eyes of 80 subjects (40 RP patients and 40 healthy subjects) 
underwent a visual field examination, together with 3 macular scans and 3 optic 
disk evaluations by the same experienced examiner using 3 OCT instruments. 
Differences between healthy and RP eyes were compared. The relationship between 
measurements with each OCT instrument was evaluated. Repeatability was studied 
by intraclass correlation coefficients and coefficients of variation.
RESULTS: Macular and retinal nerve fiber layer atrophies were detected in RP 
patients for all OCT parameters. Macular and retinal nerve fiber layer 
thicknesses, as determined by the different OCTs, were correlated but 
significantly different (P < 0.05). Reproducibility was moderately high using 
Stratus, good using Cirrus and Spectralis, and excellent using the Tru-track 
technology of Spectralis. In RP eyes, measurements showed higher variability 
compared with healthy eyes.
CONCLUSION: Differences in thickness measurements existed between OCT 
instruments, despite there being a high degree of correlation. Fourier-domain 
OCT can be considered a valid and repeatability technique to detect retinal 
nerve fiber layer atrophy in RP patients.

DOI: 10.1097/IAE.0b013e318242b838
PMID: 22922847 [Indexed for MEDLINE]