[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: nanoparticle drug delivery tumor targeting cancer | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: nanoparticle drug delivery tumor targeting cancer]

32. Int J Nanomedicine. 2025 Dec 5;20:14499-14520. doi: 10.2147/IJN.S547510. 
eCollection 2025.

Nano-Drug Delivery Systems Targeting MMPs: A Promising Treatment for Gliomas.

Liu J(#)(1)(2), Xie P(#)(2), Wang Z(2), Yin J(2), Liang S(2), Yang Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiotherapy, Second Hospital of Jilin University, Changchun, 
Jilin, People's Republic of China.
(2)NHC Key Laboratory of Radiobiology, School of Public Health, Jilin 
University, Changchun, Jilin, People's Republic of China.
(#)Contributed equally

Gliomas are the most prevalent Central Nervous System (CNS) tumors. Among them, 
glioblastoma (grade IV) is the most challenging brain cancer because of its 
highly aggressive nature, treatment resistance and poor prognosis. Matrix 
metalloproteinase (MMP) is a family of zinc-dependent protein hydrolases. In 
recent years, MMPs have become a research focus owing to their central role in 
tumor microenvironment remodeling, angiogenesis, invasion, metastasis. Clinical 
studies have shown that the expression levels of MMPs in glioma tissues exhibit 
a significant positive correlation with the degree of malignancy and 
aggressiveness of gliomas. Therefore, the idea of MMPs as a detection target and 
therapeutic target can be proposed. Nanoparticle drug delivery system, as a 
cutting-edge technology, has shown great potential and broad prospects in 
clinical applications. The system realizes the targeted delivery, 
sustained-release control and bioavailability of drugs, and provides new ideas 
and means for the management of various pathological conditions. In this review, 
we will comprehensively discuss the expression relationship and major regulatory 
mechanisms between MMPs and gliomas, the composition of nano-drug delivery 
systems, routes of administration, and common types of nanomaterials used for 
the treatment of gliomas. In addition, we focus on cell-penetrating peptides 
(CPPs) as an entry point. We summarize the common kinds of activatable CPPs and 
how they are applied in nano-drug delivery systems. It is also found that 
MMP-responsive systems, which can be used for the treatment of gliomas, can 
activate CPPs, and through the synergistic effect between CPPs and MMPs, MMPs 
can be used as detection or therapeutic targets and combined with nano-drug 
delivery system for the medical management of gliomas. The nano-drug delivery 
system can demonstrate exceptional blood-brain barrier (BBB) penetration 
efficiency and precisely target the glioma region to release the drug. This 
delivery approach may prove to be beneficial for glioma patients.

© 2025 Liu et al.

DOI: 10.2147/IJN.S547510
PMCID: PMC12689436
PMID: 41383279 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no known 
competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared 
to influence the work reported in this paper.