[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: herbal medicine drug interaction pharmacokinetics | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: herbal medicine drug interaction pharmacokinetics]

29. J Food Drug Anal. 2017 Apr;25(2):209-218. doi: 10.1016/j.jfda.2016.11.010.
Epub  2016 Dec 22.

Pharmacokinetic interactions of herbal medicines for the treatment of chronic 
hepatitis.

Hsueh TP(1)(2), Lin WL(3), Tsai TH(1)(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Traditional Medicine, School of Medicine, National Yang-Ming 
University, Taipei, Taiwan.
(2)Department of Chinese Medicine, Kaohsiung Chang Gung Memorial Hospital, Chang 
Gung University College of Medicine, Kaohsiung, Taiwan.
(3)Department of Chinese Medicine, E-DA Hospital, I-Shou University, Kaohsiung, 
Taiwan.
(4)Department of Chemical Engineering, National United University, Miaoli, 
Taiwan.
(5)School of Pharmacy, College of Pharmacy, Kaohsiung Medical University, 
Kaohsiung, Taiwan.

Chronic liver disease is a serious global health problem, and an increasing 
number of patients are seeking alternative medicines or complementary treatment. 
Herbal medicines account for 16.8% of patients with chronic liver disease who 
use complementary and alternative therapies. A survey of the National Health 
Insurance Research Database in Taiwan reported that Long-Dan-Xie-Gan-Tang, 
Jia-Wei-Xia-Yao-San, and Xiao-Chai-Hu-Tang (Sho-saiko-to) were the most frequent 
formula prescriptions for chronic hepatitis used by traditional Chinese medicine 
physicians. Bioanalytical methods of herbal medicines for the treatment of 
chronic hepatitis were developed to investigate pharmacokinetics properties, but 
multicomponent herbal formulas have been seldom discussed. The pharmacokinetics 
of herbal formulas is closely related to efficacy, efficiency, and patient 
safety of traditional herbal medicines. Potential herbal formula-drug 
interactions are another essential issue during herbal formula administration in 
chronic hepatitis patients. In a survey with the PubMed database, this review 
article evaluates the existing evidence-based data associated with the 
documented pharmacokinetics profiles and potential herbal-drug interactions of 
herbal formulas for the treatment of chronic hepatitis. In addition, the 
existing pharmacokinetic profiles were further linked with clinical practice to 
provide insight for the safety and specific use of traditional herbal medicines.

Copyright © 2016. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jfda.2016.11.010
PMCID: PMC9332521
PMID: 28911662 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interest All authors declare no 
conflicts of interest.