[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: Cryogenic treatment | Type: Instruction-QA | Level: Graduate]

Question: Provide a comprehensive expert-level explanation of Cryogenic treatment in the context of Applied Sciences.

Answer:
A cryogenic treatment is the process of treating workpieces to cryogenic temperatures (typically around -300°F / -184°C, or as low as ) in order to remove residual stresses and improve wear resistance in steels and other metal alloys, such as aluminum.  In addition to seeking enhanced stress relief and stabilization, or wear resistance, cryogenic treatment is also sought for its ability to improve corrosion resistance by precipitating micro-fine eta carbides, which can be measured before and after in a part using a quantimet.

The process has a wide range of applications from industrial tooling to the improvement of musical signal transmission. Some of the benefits of cryogenic treatment include longer part life, less failure due to cracking, improved thermal properties, better electrical properties including less electrical resistance, reduced coefficient of friction, less creep and walk, improved flatness, and easier machining.

Processes

Cryogenic tempering
Cryogenic tempering is two phase metal treatment that involves a descent and ascent phase, including a cryogenic treatment process (known as "cryogenic processing") where the material is slowly cooled to ultra low temperatures (typically around -300°F / -184°C), which is then optionally reheated slowly (typically up to +325°F / 162°C). Materials do not "harden" during the temperature descent or ascent, rather their molecular structures are compressed together tightly in uniformity through a computer controlled process that typically uses liquid nitrogen to slowly descend temperatures.

Invention History of Cryogenic Processing & Cryogenic Tempering 
The cryogenic treatment process was invented by Ed Busch (CryoTech) in Detroit, Michigan in 1966, inspired by NASA research, which later merged with 300 Below, Inc. in 2000 to become the world's largest and oldest commercial cryogenic processing company after Peter Paulin of Decatur, IL collaborated with process control engineers to invent the world's first computer-controlled "dry" cryogenic processor in 1992 (where he was featured on the Discovery Channel's Next Step TV Show for his invention). Whereas the industry initially submerged metal parts in liquid nitrogen by dunking them or pouring liquid nitrogen over the parts, the earliest results proved inconsistent, which led Mr. Paulin to develop 300 Below's "dry" computer-controlled cryogenic processing equipment to ensure consistent and accurate treatment results across every processing run by introducing liquid nitrogen into a chamber above its boiling point, in a "dry" gaseous state, to ensure that parts in a chamber are not thermally shocked from being exposed to direct liquid contact of ultra low temperatures. A "dry" cryogenic process does not submerge parts in liquid, but rather ensures that temperatures are slowly descended at less than one degree per minute using short bursts of cold gas being introduced via a solenoid-metered pipe, which is controlled by a computer equipment paired with highly accurate RTD (Resistance Temperature Detector) sensors.

Science Behind Dry Cryogenic Processing & Cryogenic Tempering 
Because all changes to metals take place on the quench, the first phase of the initial descent is called cryogenic processing, and by adding a second phase to heat the molecular structure of materials after an initial molecular re-alignment, both processes together are called cryogenic tempering. By using liquid nitrogen, the temperature can go as low as −196 °C, though the typical dwell temperature of cryogenic processing equipment is slightly above the boiling point of liquid nitrogen (closer to -300°F / -184°C) due to being injected into the processing chamber as a gaseous state and making every attempt not to introduce liquid into the chamber that could cause parts to become thermally shocked. Cryogenic processing (and especially cryogenic tempering) can have a profound effect on the mechanical properties of certain materials, such as steels or tungsten carbide, but the heating phase in cryogenic tempering is typically omitted for softer metals like brass in musical instruments, for piano strings, in certain aerospace applications, or for sensitive electronic components like vacuum tubes and transistors in high-end audio equipment. In tungsten carbide (WC-Co), the crystal structure of cobalt is transformed from softer FCC to harder HCP phase whereas the hard tungsten carbide particle is unaffected by the treatment.

Applications of cryogenic processing
 Aerospace & Defense: communication, optical housings, satellites, weapons platforms, guidance systems, landing systems.
 Automotive: brake rotors, transmissions, clutches, brake parts, rods, crank shafts, camshafts axles, bearings, ring and pinion, heads, valve trains, differentials, springs, nuts, bolts, washers.
 Cutting tools: cutters, knives, blades, drill bits, end mills, turning or milling inserts. Cryogenic treatments of cutting tools can be classified as Deep Cryogenic Treatments (around -196 °C) or Shallow Cryogenic Treatments (around -80 °C).
 Forming tools: roll form dies, progressive dies, stamping dies.
 Mechanical industry: pumps, motors, nuts, bolts, washers.
 Medical: tooling, scalpels.
 Motorsports and Fleet Vehicles: See Automotive for brake rotors and other automotive components. 
 Musical: Vacuum tubes, Audio cables, brass instruments, guitar strings and fret wire, piano wire, amplifiers, magnetic pickups, cables, connectors.
 Sports: Firearms, knives, fishing equipment, auto racing, tennis rackets, golf clubs, mountain climbing gear, archery, skiing, aircraft parts, high pressure lines, bicycles, motor cycles.

Cryogenic machining
Cryogenic machining is a machining process where the traditional flood lubro-cooling liquid (an emulsion of oil into water) is replaced by a jet of either liquid nitrogen (LN2) or pre-compressed carbon dioxide (). Cryogenic machining is useful in rough machining operations, in order to increase the tool life. It can