[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: The Herbalist — Meyer | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# The Herbalist — Meyer — Overview

equally applicable to most of the ghosts I ever heard of; but it does appear to me somewhat inconsistent that when you have an opportunity of visiting the fairest spots of earth--for I suppose space is nothing to you--you should always return exactly to the very places where you have been most miserable.' 'Egad, that's very true; I never thought of that before,' said the ghost. 'You see, sir,'
   pursued the tenant, 'this is a very uncomfortable room. From the
   appearance of that press I should be disposed to say that it is not
   wholly free from bugs; and I really think you might find much more
   comfortable quarters, to say nothing of the climate of London, which
   is extremely disagreeable.'  'You are very right, sir,' said the
   ghost, politely; 'it never struck me till now; I'll try a change of
   air directly.'  In fact, he began to vanish as he spoke--his legs,
   indeed, had quite disappeared. 'And if, sir,' said the tenant,
   calling after him, 'if you _would_ have the goodness to suggest to the
   other ladies and gentlemen who are now engaged in haunting old empty
   houses, that they might be much more comfortable elsewhere, you will
   confer a very great benefit on society.'  'I will,' replied the ghost;
   'we must be dull fellows, very dull fellows indeed; I can't imagine
   how we can have been so stupid.'  With these words the spirit
   disappeared; and what is rather remarkable," added the old man, with a
   shrewd look round the table, "he never came back again."

But I must not delay longer over where the lawyers live. The lawyers of
Dickens furnish me with three types of the practising solicitor or
attorney, each admirable in its way. First, Mr. Perker, whose aid Mr. Wardle seeks to release Miss Rachel Wardle from that scoundrel Jingle. He
is described as a little high-dried man, with a dark squeezed-up face,
and small restless black eyes, that kept winking and twinkling on each
side of his little inquisitive nose, as if they were playing a perpetual
game of peep-bo with that feature. He was dressed all in black, with
boots as shiny as his eyes, a low white neckcloth, and a clean shirt with
a frill to it. A gold watch-chain and seals depended from his fob. He
carried his black kid gloves _in_ his hands, and not _on_ them; and as he
spoke, thrust his wrists beneath his coat-tails, with the air of a man
who was in the habit of propounding some regular posers. He lived at Montague Place, Russell Square, and had offices in Gray's
Inn, and appears to have had a large and very respectable business, into
the details of which we have not time to travel; but perhaps the
cleverest piece of business he ever did was when, as Agent to the
Honourable Samuel Slumkey, of Slumkey Hall, he brought about the return
of that honourable gentleman as Member of Parliament. I suppose we have
all read the account of that memorable election, which is a pretty
accurate record of what went on at Eatanswill, and I am credibly informed
at many other places. Mr. Pickwick and his companions, in their quest for experience, set out
for the excitement of a contested election, and found their way to the
agent's room. "Ah--ah, my dear sir," said the little man, advancing to meet him;
   "very happy to see you, my dear sir, very. Pray sit down. So you
   have carried your intention into effect. You have come down here to
   see an election--eh?"

   Mr. Pickwick replied in the affirmative. "Spirited contest, my dear sir," said the little man. "I'm delighted to hear it," said Mr. Pickwick, rubbing his hands. "I
   like to see sturdy patriotism, on whatever side it is called
   forth;--and so it's a spirited contest?"

   "Oh, yes," said the little man, "very much so indeed. We have opened
   all the public-houses in the place, and left our adversary nothing but
   the beer-shops--masterly stroke of policy that, my dear sir, eh?"

   The little man smiled complacently, and took a large pinch of snuff. "And what are the probabilities as to the result of the contest?"
   inquired Mr. Pickwick. "Why, doubtful, my dear sir; rather doubtful as yet," replied the
   little man. "Fizkin's people have got three-and-thirty voters in the
   lock-up coach-house at the White Hart."

   "In the coach-house!" said Mr. Pickwick, considerably astonished by
   this second stroke of policy. "They keep 'em locked up there till they want 'em," resumed the little
   man. "The effect of that is, you see, to prevent our getting at them;
   and even if we could, it would be of no use, for they keep them very
   drunk on purpose. Smart fellow Fizkin's agent--very smart fellow
   indeed."

   Mr. Pickwick stared, but said nothing. "We are pretty confident, though," said Mr. Perker, sinking his voice
   almost to a whisper. "We had a little tea-party here last night--five-
   and-forty women, my dear sir--and gave every one of 'em a green
   parasol when she went away."

   "A parasol?" said Mr.