[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: herbal medicine drug interaction pharmacokinetics | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: herbal medicine drug interaction pharmacokinetics]

57. J Pharm Pharmacol. 2019 Jan;71(1):129-138. doi: 10.1111/jphp.12858. Epub 2018
 Feb 7.

Understanding drug interactions with St John's wort (Hypericum perforatum L.): 
impact of hyperforin content.

Chrubasik-Hausmann S(1), Vlachojannis J(1), McLachlan AJ(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Forensic Medicine, University of Freiburg, Freiburg, Germany.
(2)Centre for Education and Research on Ageing, Faculty of Pharmacy, The 
University of Sydney, Sydney, NSW, Australia.
(3)Concord Repatriation General Hospital, Sydney, NSW, Australia.

OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to review herb-drug interaction studies 
with St John's wort (Hypericum perforatum L.) with a focus on the hyperforin 
content of the extracts used in these studies.
METHODS: PUBMED was systematically searched to identify studies describing 
pharmacokinetic interactions involving St John's wort. Data on study design and 
the St John's wort extract or product were gathered to extract hyperforin 
content and daily dose used in interaction studies.
KEY FINDINGS: This analysis demonstrates that significant herb-drug interactions 
(resulting in a substantial change in systemic exposure) with St John's wort 
products were associated with hyperforin daily dosage. Products that had a daily 
dose of <1 mg hyperforin were less likely to be associated with major 
interaction for drugs that were CYP3A4 or p-glycoprotein substrates. Although a 
risk of interactions cannot be excluded even for low-dose hyperforin St. John's 
wort extracts, the use of products that result in a dose of not more than 1 mg 
hyperforin per day is recommended to minimise the risk of interactions.
CONCLUSIONS: This review highlights that the significance of herb-drug 
interactions with St John's wort is influenced by the nature of the herbal 
medicines product, particularly the hyperforin content.

© 2018 Royal Pharmaceutical Society.

DOI: 10.1111/jphp.12858
PMID: 29411879 [Indexed for MEDLINE]