[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: plant alkaloid biosynthesis pathway elucidation | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: plant alkaloid biosynthesis pathway elucidation]

5. Biomolecules. 2021 Nov 18;11(11):1719. doi: 10.3390/biom11111719.

Transcription Factors in Alkaloid Engineering.

Yamada Y(1), Sato F(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Medicinal Cell Biology, Kobe Pharmaceutical University, Kobe 
658-8558, Japan.
(2)Department of Plant Gene and Totipotency, Division of Integrated Life 
Science, Graduate School of Biostudies, Kyoto University, Kyoto 606-8502, Japan.
(3)Graduate School of Science, Osaka Prefecture University, Sakai 599-8531, 
Japan.

Plants produce a large variety of low-molecular-weight and specialized secondary 
compounds. Among them, nitrogen-containing alkaloids are the most biologically 
active and are often used in the pharmaceutical industry. Although alkaloid 
chemistry has been intensively investigated, characterization of alkaloid 
biosynthesis, including biosynthetic enzyme genes and their regulation, 
especially the transcription factors involved, has been relatively delayed, 
since only a limited number of plant species produce these specific types of 
alkaloids in a tissue/cell-specific or developmental-specific manner. Recent 
advances in molecular biology technologies, such as RNA sequencing, 
co-expression analysis of transcripts and metabolites, and functional 
characterization of genes using recombinant technology and cutting-edge 
technology for metabolite identification, have enabled a more detailed 
characterization of alkaloid pathways. Thus, transcriptional regulation of 
alkaloid biosynthesis by transcription factors, such as basic helix-loop-helix 
(bHLH), APETALA2/ethylene-responsive factor (AP2/ERF), and WRKY, is well 
elucidated. In addition, jasmonate signaling, an important cue in alkaloid 
biosynthesis, and its cascade, interaction of transcription factors, and 
post-transcriptional regulation are also characterized and show 
cell/tissue-specific or developmental regulation. Furthermore, current 
sequencing technology provides more information on the genome structure of 
alkaloid-producing plants with large and complex genomes, for genome-wide 
characterization. Based on the latest information, we discuss the application of 
transcription factors in alkaloid engineering.

DOI: 10.3390/biom11111719
PMCID: PMC8615522
PMID: 34827717 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.