[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Complex Circuit Systems | Topic: Wilson current mirror | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Wilson current mirror — Overview

amount, so . The input voltage is the sum of the base-emitter voltages of Q2 and Q3; the collector currents of Q2 and Q3 are nearly equal implying that . The input impedance is . Using the standard formula for leads to: ... (7) where is the usual thermal voltage, the product of the Boltzmann constant and absolute temperature divided by the charge of an electron. This impedance is twice the value of  for the standard two-transistor current mirror. Current mirrors are frequently used in the signal path of an integrated circuit, for example, for differential to single-ended signal conversion within an operational amplifier. At low bias currents, the impedances in the circuit are high enough that the effect of frequency may be dominated by device and parasitic capacitances shunting the input and  output nodes to ground, lowering the input and output impedances. The collector-base capacitance, , of Q3 is one component of that capacitive load. The collector of Q3 is the output node of the mirror and its base is the input node. When any current flows in , that current becomes an input to the mirror and the current is doubled at the output. Effectively the contribution from Q3 to the total output capacitance is . If the output of the Wilson mirror is connected to a relatively high impedance node, the voltage gain of the mirror may be high. In that case the input impedance of the mirror may be affected by the Miller effect because of , although the low input impedance of the mirror mitigates this effect. When the circuit is biased at higher currents that maximize the frequency response of the transistor current gain, it is possible to operate a Wilson current mirror with satisfactory results at frequencies up to approximately one tenth of the transition frequency of the transistors. The transition frequency of a bipolar transistor, , is the frequency at which the short-circuit common-emitter current gain falls to unity. It is effectively the highest frequency for which a transistor may supply useful gain in an amplifier. The transition frequency is a function of the collector current, increasing with increasing current until a broad maximum at a collector current slightly less than what causes the onset of high injection. In simple models of the bipolar transistor when the collector is grounded,  shows a single-pole frequency response so  is also the current gain-bandwidth product. Crudely this implies that at , . By equation (4) one might expect the magnitude of the ratio of output to input current at that frequency to differ from unity by about 2%. The Wilson current mirror achieves the high output impedance of equation (6) by negative feedback rather than by emitter degeneration as cascoded mirrors or sources with resistor degeneration do. The node impedance of the only internal node of the mirror, the node at the emitter of Q3 and the collector of Q2, is quite low. At low frequency, that impedance is given by . For a device biased at 1 mA having a current gain of 100, this evaluates to 0.26 ohms at 25 °C. Any change in output current with output voltage results in a change in the emitter current of Q3 but very little change in the emitter node voltage. The change in  is fed back through Q2 and Q1 to the input node where it changes the base current of Q3 in a way that reduces the net change in output current, thus closing the feedback loop. Circuits that contain negative feedback loops, whether current or voltage loops, with loop gains near or above unity may exhibit undesirable anomalies in frequency response when the phase shift of the signal inside the loop is sufficient to convert negative into positive feedback. For the current feedback loop of the Wilson current mirror this effect appears as a strong broad resonant peak in the ratio of the output to input current, ,  at about . Gilbert shows a simulation of a Wilson current mirror implemented in NPN transistors with  GHz and current gain  that shows a peak of 7.5 dB  at 1.2 GHz. This behavior is very undesirable and can be largely eliminated by further modification of the basic mirror circuit. Figure 4b show a possible variant on the Wilson mirror that reduces this peak by disconnecting the bases of Q1 and Q2 from the collector of Q2 and adding a second emitter to Q3 to drive the bases of the internal mirror. For the same bias conditions and device type, this circuit exhibits flat frequency response to 50 MHz, has a peak response less than 0.7 dB  at 160 MHz and falls below its low-frequency response at 350 MHz. Minimum operating voltages 
The compliance of a current source, that is, the range of output voltage over which the output current remains approximately constant, affects the potentials available to bias and operate the circuitry in which the source is embedded. For example, in Fig. 2 the voltage available to the "Load" is the difference between the supply voltage  and the collector voltage of Q3. The collector of Q3 is the output node of the mirror and the potential of that collector relative to ground is the output voltage of the mirror, that is,  and the "load" voltage is .