[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Propulsion Mechanics | Topic: Max Bentele | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Max Bentele — Overview

Max Bentele (January 15, 1909 – May 19, 2006) was a German-born pioneer in the field of jet aircraft turbines and mechanical engineering. His contributions to the development of the Wankel engine earned him the title, "Father of the Wankel Engine in the United States". Bentele in Germany
Bentele had been fascinated with engineering from an early age and graduated from the Technical University of Stuttgart in the fall of 1928 with a degree in mechanical and electrical engineering. Up until World War II he was working on turbine blade design for the Heinkel-Hirth, Germany's new jet engine. Bentele excelled at this task, and after the war he managed one of Heinkel-Hirth's few remaining machine shops, which had survived virtually unscathed. He excelled at this job and was approached to undertake the design and manufacture of much needed spare parts for Allied Jeeps. Bentele in the United States
Bentele left his successful business at the request of the Americans and British in order to study and repair damaged German jet aircraft. Bentele successfully built twelve new aircraft for this purpose. While it is believed that he was interrogated at this time, Bentele made contacts which ultimately brought him to the United States. Bentele temporarily returned to Heinkel-Hirth in Germany and established a moped business there. During this time he worked on turbine, and direct fuel injection, engines for such companies as Bosch, L'Orange, Daimler-Benz, and the British Ministry of Supply. Shortly thereafter he immigrated to the United States, where he worked for Curtiss-Wright, developing new technologies. Curtiss-Wright
Immediately after World War II, the Curtiss-Wright Corporation became a defense contractor supplying aircraft and aircraft engines. This American aircraft manufacturing company was directly descended from the business ventures of the Wright brothers and their fellow aviation pioneer Glenn Curtiss. In 1949, Roy Hurley became president of the company and sought keenly to acquire Bentele's services. While Curtiss-Wright had once been one of the top aircraft and aircraft engine producers in the world, the company was slow to adopt the new turbojet engine, which began to dominate the market. There was simply no more tinkering that could be done to improve Curtiss's engines—a complete overhaul was necessary. Curtiss needed a new engine, if it were to compete for government contracts, which dominated the market. The Wankel engine
Although Bentele did not have the proper government clearance—an issue which may have hindered him—he worked to his full potential and achieved results. In 1958, Roy Hurley acquired the Studebaker-Packard Corporation, and it was soon discovered that German automobile and engine producer NSU had been working on a remarkable engine concept: the Wankel rotary engine of Felix Wankel. Security surrounding this project was surprisingly lax for such a revolutionary invention, and it was even arranged for Bentele to study a model on his own, exploring the potential further development and production of such an engine at Curtiss-Wright. After a long weekend, Bentele emerged more than impressed with the project and became an admirer of a fellow mechanist Felix Wankel. Chief Scientist
Bentele was one of several British, German and Swiss engineers that had recently been hired by Curtiss-Wright to broaden their line in engines. Bentele,  when he went to Curtiss-Wright, was assigned, as a "Chief Scientist," to assist the large number of Engineering Section Heads that carried out the design, development, testing, and analysis for production engines and experimental engines. Bentele, who was well qualified to help solve existing problems, was soon unwelcome at the various Section Head offices. There were several reasons for this less-than-enthusiastic acceptance, part of it being Bentele's energetic approach. Bentele may not have been properly coordinated into the largely independent Engineering and Research Departments. Hurley, by his own admission, was a "jackknife engineer" and did not come up through Engineering. Also Bentele was not modest, when he visited each office to review their technical problems: he generally concluded, "in Germany, we did it this way", which was interpreted as arrogant. Soon all doors were closed—with one exception:

Charles Jones
The youngest Section Head at Curtiss-Wright at that time, Charles Jones, was head of the Stress and Applied Mechanics Section, responsible for the structural integrity of  Curtiss-Wright engines. Jones had a staff of 30 engineers, almost all with advanced degrees, but still had to put in an inordinate number of hours to keep up. He was delighted to have Bentele's experience, similar to that of Jones' but far more extensive, available to  him. Bentele became a steady visitor, even before any Wankel issues came up. Therefore, it was quite natural for Bentele to ask Jones if he would try to develop the Wankel engine basic formulae (dimensions, dynamics, accelerations, velocities,  vibrations, etc.) on weekends.