[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: photodynamic therapy cancer clinical trial | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: photodynamic therapy cancer clinical trial]

46. Curr Treat Options Oncol. 2000 Jun;1(2):139-46. doi:
10.1007/s11864-000-0058-1.

Advanced ovarian cancer.

Chi DS(1), Sabbatini P.

Author information:
(1)Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, 1275 York Avenue, New York, NY 10021, 
USA.

State-of-the-art treatment for advanced ovarian cancer requires a multimodality 
approach. Aggressive surgical debulking with the goal of optimal cytoreduction 
is the initial step. After primary cytoreductive surgery, standard treatment for 
patients with stage III and IV disease is systemic combination chemotherapy 
consisting of six cycles of paclitaxel and carboplatin. Approximately 70% of 
patients enter a clinical remission with this approach, yet less than 30% remain 
disease free. Options following primary therapy include observation or second 
surgical assessment if no clinical evidence of disease is present. Novel 
strategies for consolidation are needed. Second-look surgery can be performed 
safely and effectively laparoscopically, and this is the most accurate means of 
identifying patients who appear to be clinically free of disease but actually 
harbor persistent cancer. Although this procedure is an extremely accurate means 
of identifying these patients, women who have pathologically negative 
second-look surgery are still at risk for relapse. Patients can receive 
additional treatment following second-look surgical assessment via the 
intraperitoneal route if they are pathologically negative or if they have 
microscopic or small volume disease. Alternatively, additional systemic 
chemotherapy can be given with non-cross-resistant systemic agents, but no 
current standard approach for consolidation therapy exists for patients 
following the completion of primary treatment. Unfortunately, most patients 
relapse. Multiple agents with similar activity in phase II trials are available 
to treat patients with advanced recurrent disease. Combination therapy in this 
setting has not been shown to have significantly superior progression-free or 
overall survival compared with single agents. The selection of treatment for 
patients with recurrent disease is currently based on a determination of the 
treatment-free interval since last treatment, as well as the route, schedule, 
and expected side effects of the agent.

DOI: 10.1007/s11864-000-0058-1
PMID: 12057051 [Indexed for MEDLINE]