[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS neurology | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS neurology]

7. Rinsho Shinkeigaku. 2010 Nov;50(11):803-7. doi: 10.5692/clinicalneurol.50.803.

[Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) in clinical neurology].

[Article in Japanese]

Matsumoto H(1), Ugawa Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Japanese Red Cross Medical Center.

To date, various kinds of transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) methods have 
been widely used in clinical neurology. For the clinical examination, 
single-pulse TMS is generally used, whereas, for the future therapy, repetitive 
TMS (rTMS) is widely researched. To evaluate the function of corticospinal 
tract, central motor conduction time (CMCT) is measured using single-pulse TMS. 
For precise analyses, single-pulse and double-pulse magnetic brainstem 
stimulation are performed to measure the cortical-brainstem conduction time and 
brainstem-spinal conduction time. To evaluate corticospinal tract function for 
leg muscles, cortico-conus motor conduction time (CCCT) is considered to be more 
accurate than CMCT. Magnetic cerebellar stimulation is effective to distinguish 
the cerebellar afferent pathway dysfunction from cerebellar efferent or 
cerebellar cortical dysfunctions. In animal research, rTMS releases the dopamine 
in monkey's brain and induces functional changes lasting over one week. In fact, 
as compared to sham-rTMS, high-frequency rTMS (5Hz) over the supplementary motor 
area has been shown to be significantly effective in the patients with 
Parkinson's disease. A new patterned rTMS protocol, quadripulse stimulation 
(QPS), can produce a bidirectional motor cortical plasticity depending on the 
interval of the pulses within a burst. rTMS including QPS might relieve symptoms 
in patients with neurological and psychiatric disorders.

DOI: 10.5692/clinicalneurol.50.803
PMID: 21921446 [Indexed for MEDLINE]