[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: pharmacognosy medicinal plant active compound isol | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: pharmacognosy medicinal plant active compound isolation]

99. Pak J Pharm Sci. 2017 Nov;30(6):2285-2300.

Review: Ethnomedicinal, phytochemical and antibacterial activities of medicinal 
flora of Pakistan used against Pseudomonas aeruginosa-A Review.

Bibi R(1), Tariq A(1), Mussarat S(1), Khan SN(2), Rahman H(3), Abd Allah EF(3), 
Ullah R(4), Adnan M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Botany, Kohat University of Science and Technology, Kohat, 
Pakistan.
(2)Department of Zoology, Kohat University of Science and Technology, Kohat, 
Pakistan.
(3)Department of Microbiology, Kohat University of Science and Technology, 
Kohat, Pakistan.
(4)Department of Pharmacognosy (MAPPRC), College of Pharmacy King Saud 
University Riyadh Saudi Arabia.

Medicinal plants have been used from ancient time against different infectious 
diseases caused by microorganisms across the globe. The present review 
represents different medicinal plants of Pakistan used traditionally for the 
treatment of variety of ailments caused by Pseudomonas aeruginosa, their 
in-vitro activities against P. aeruginosa and phytochemistry. These plants were 
extracted with different solvents that showed good in-vitro activities against 
P. aeruginosa, due to the presence of active phytoconstituents including 
alkaloids, terpenoids etc. Among all the solvents used for extraction process, 
alcoholic extracts were mostly preferred in Pakistan. However, non-alcoholic 
solvents like ethyl acetate and chloroform also showed good anti-P. aeruginosa 
activities. Statistically, increase in concentration (mg/ml) of ethyl acetate 
and chloroform extracts significantly increase (p=0.000 and p= 0.046) inhibitory 
activity against P. aeruginosa. This review provides scientific validation of 
the traditional knowledge in using medicinal plants for the treatment of 
different diseases caused by this bacterium. Reported Pakistani medicinal plants 
contain variety of phytochemical compounds that could be very useful in the 
production of new drugs with fewer side effects on living system compared to 
some allopathic drugs. This review also provides baseline information for future 
research studies on the phytochemistry of unexplored plants. Further research 
studies should be carried out on non-alcoholic extracts that could be helpful in 
the extraction new compounds, which could lead to the development of some novel 
drugs in the pharmaceutical industries of Pakistan.

PMID: 29175802 [Indexed for MEDLINE]