[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: MRI physics image quality artifact reduction | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: MRI physics image quality artifact reduction]

31. Magn Reson Med. 2026 Jan;95(1):346-362. doi: 10.1002/mrm.70050. Epub 2025 Aug
 22.

Motion-robust T2∗ quantification from low-resolution gradient echo brain MRI 
with physics-informed deep learning.

Eichhorn H(1)(2), Spieker V(1)(2), Hammernik K(2), Saks E(3)(4), Felsner L(2), 
Weiss K(5), Preibisch C(3)(4)(6), Schnabel JA(1)(2)(7).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Machine Learning in Biomedical Imaging, Helmholtz Munich, 
Neuherberg, Germany.
(2)School of Computation, Information & Technology, Technical University of 
Munich, Munich, Germany.
(3)Department of Diagnostic and Interventional Neuroradiology, School of 
Medicine & Health, TUM Klinikum Rechts der Isar, Technical University of Munich, 
Munich, Germany.
(4)TUM-Neuroimaging Center, School of Medicine & Health, TUM Klinikum Rechts der 
Isar, Technical University of Munich, Munich, Germany.
(5)Philips GmbH Market DACH, Hamburg, Germany.
(6)Clinic of Neurology, School of Medicine & Health, TUM Klinikum Rechts der 
Isar, Technical University of Munich, Munich, Germany.
(7)School of Biomedical Engineering & Imaging Sciences, King's College, London, 
UK.

PURPOSE: T2∗ quantification from gradient echo magnetic resonance imaging is 
particularly affected by subject motion due to its high sensitivity to magnetic 
field inhomogeneities, which are influenced by motion and might cause signal 
loss. Thus, motion correction is crucial to obtain high-quality T2∗ maps.
METHODS: We extend PHIMO, our previously introduced learning-based 
physics-informed motion correction method for low-resolution T2∗ mapping. Our 
extended version, PHIMO+, utilizes acquisition knowledge to enhance the 
reconstruction performance for challenging motion patterns and increase PHIMO's 
robustness to varying strengths of magnetic field inhomogeneities across the 
brain. We perform comprehensive evaluations regarding motion detection accuracy 
and image quality for data with simulated and real motion.
RESULTS: PHIMO+ outperforms the learning-based baseline methods both 
qualitatively and quantitatively with respect to line detection and image 
quality. Moreover, PHIMO+ performs on par with a conventional state-of-the-art 
motion correction method for T2∗ quantification from gradient echo MRI, which 
relies on redundant data acquisition.
CONCLUSION: PHIMO+'s competitive motion correction performance, combined with a 
reduction in acquisition time by over 40% compared to the state-of-the-art 
method, makes it a promising solution for motion-robust T2∗ quantification in 
research settings and clinical routine.

© 2025 The Author(s). Magnetic Resonance in Medicine published by Wiley 
Periodicals LLC on behalf of International Society for Magnetic Resonance in 
Medicine.

DOI: 10.1002/mrm.70050
PMCID: PMC12620166
PMID: 40843481 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Kilian Weiss is an employee of Philips GmbH 
Market DACH.