[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: MRI physics image quality artifact reduction | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: MRI physics image quality artifact reduction]

40. Magn Reson Med. 2022 Aug;88(2):711-726. doi: 10.1002/mrm.29234. Epub 2022 Apr
 15.

Towards free breathing 3D ASL imaging of the human liver using prospective 
motion correction.

Huber J(1), Günther M(1)(2), Channaveerappa M(1), Hoinkiss DC(1).

Author information:
(1)Imaging Physics, Fraunhofer Institute for Digital Medicine MEVIS, Bremen, 
Germany.
(2)Physics/Electrical Engineering, University of Bremen, Bremen, Germany.

PURPOSE: Measurements of liver perfusion yield valuable information about 
certain diseases like carcinomas and cirrhosis. To assess perfusion, noninvasive 
arterial spin labeling (ASL) MRI has the potential to become an important 
alternative to contrast agent-based methods. Unfortunately, ASL 
perfusion-weighted images are highly susceptible to breathing motion. This work 
presents a prospective motion-compensation technique, tackling breathing motion 
during ASL experiments of the human liver.
METHODS: Feasibility of 3D pseudo-continuous ASL imaging under free breathing is 
investigated by using a prospective motion-compensation technique with fat 
signal in additional 2D-EPI navigators. The proposed technique is compatible 
with strong signal suppression, occurring in background-suppressed 
pseudo-continuous ASL imaging. An additional retrospective 2D elastic 
registration algorithm is proposed to correct for residual elastic deformations. 
The technique is validated in 8 healthy volunteers.
RESULTS: The prospective technique allowed a significant reduction of the 
cranial-caudal liver shifts during free breathing pseudo-continuous ASL 
experiments. Additional 2D elastic image registration allowed reduction of 
cranial-caudal liver motion to levels of timed breathing protocols. Artifacts in 
perfusion-weighted images could be reduced when compared with free-breathing ASL 
images without motion correction.
CONCLUSION: The proposed technique is suitable for prospective compensation of 
liver motion in background-suppressed 3D pseudo-continuous ASL imaging. Future 
work focuses on further improving the quality of perfusion-weighted images.

© 2022 The Authors. Magnetic Resonance in Medicine published by Wiley 
Periodicals LLC on behalf of International Society for Magnetic Resonance in 
Medicine.

DOI: 10.1002/mrm.29234
PMID: 35426469 [Indexed for MEDLINE]