[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: magnetotherapy clinical evidence pain healing | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: magnetotherapy clinical evidence pain healing]

2. Aesthet Surg J. 2009 Mar-Apr;29(2):135-43. doi: 10.1016/j.asj.2009.02.001.

Evidence-based use of pulsed electromagnetic field therapy in clinical plastic 
surgery.

Strauch B(1), Herman C, Dabb R, Ignarro LJ, Pilla AA.

Author information:
(1)Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Bronx, NY, USA. bstrauch@montefiore.org

BACKGROUND: The initial development of pulsed electromagnetic field (PEMF) 
therapy and its evolution over the last century for use in clinical surgery has 
been slow, primarily because of lack of scientifically-derived, evidence-based 
knowledge of the mechanism of action.
OBJECTIVE: Our objective was to review the major scientific breakthroughs and 
current understanding of the mechanism of action of PEMF therapy, providing 
clinicians with a sound basis for optimal use.
METHODS: A literature review was conducted, including mechanism of action and 
biologic and clinical studies of PEMF. Using case illustrations, a holistic 
exposition on the clinical use of PEMF in plastic surgery was performed.
RESULTS: PEMF therapy has been used successfully in the management of 
postsurgical pain and edema, the treatment of chronic wounds, and in 
facilitating vasodilatation and angiogenesis. Using scientific support, the 
authors present the currently accepted mechanism of action of PEMF therapy.
CONCLUSIONS: This review shows that plastic surgeons have at hand a powerful 
tool with no known side effects for the adjunctive, noninvasive, 
nonpharmacologic management of postoperative pain and edema. Given the recent 
rapid advances in development of portable and economical PEMF devices, what has 
been of most significance to the plastic surgeon is the laboratory and clinical 
confirmation of decreased pain and swelling following injury or surgery.

DOI: 10.1016/j.asj.2009.02.001
PMID: 19371845 [Indexed for MEDLINE]