[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: graphene biomedical applications toxicity review | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: graphene biomedical applications toxicity review]

13. Sensors (Basel). 2020 Feb 16;20(4):1072. doi: 10.3390/s20041072.

Applications of Graphene Quantum Dots in Biomedical Sensors.

Mansuriya BD(1), Altintas Z(1).

Author information:
(1)Technical University of Berlin, Straße des 17. Juni 124, 10623 Berlin, 
Germany.

Due to the proliferative cancer rates, cardiovascular diseases, 
neurodegenerative disorders, autoimmune diseases and a plethora of infections 
across the globe, it is essential to introduce strategies that can rapidly and 
specifically detect the ultralow concentrations of relevant biomarkers, 
pathogens, toxins and pharmaceuticals in biological matrices. Considering these 
pathophysiologies, various research works have become necessary to fabricate 
biosensors for their early diagnosis and treatment, using nanomaterials like 
quantum dots (QDs). These nanomaterials effectively ameliorate the sensor 
performance with respect to their reproducibility, selectivity as well as 
sensitivity. In particular, graphene quantum dots (GQDs), which are ideally 
graphene fragments of nanometer size, constitute discrete features such as 
acting as attractive fluorophores and excellent electro-catalysts owing to their 
photo-stability, water-solubility, biocompatibility, non-toxicity and 
lucrativeness that make them favorable candidates for a wide range of novel 
biomedical applications. Herein, we reviewed about 300 biomedical studies 
reported over the last five years which entail the state of art as well as some 
pioneering ideas with respect to the prominent role of GQDs, especially in the 
development of optical, electrochemical and photoelectrochemical biosensors. 
Additionally, we outline the ideal properties of GQDs, their eclectic methods of 
synthesis, and the general principle behind several biosensing techniques.

DOI: 10.3390/s20041072
PMCID: PMC7070974
PMID: 32079119 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.