[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: ethnobotany traditional medicine biological activi | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: ethnobotany traditional medicine biological activity]

86. J Ethnopharmacol. 2020 May 23;254:112609. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2020.112609.
Epub  2020 Jan 30.

Indian Sarsaparilla (Hemidesmus indicus): Recent progress in research on 
ethnobotany, phytochemistry and pharmacology.

Nandy S(1), Mukherjee A(2), Pandey DK(3), Ray P(1), Dey A(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences, Presidency University, Kolkata, India.
(2)MMHS, Joynagar, South 24 Parganas, West Bengal, India.
(3)Department of Biotechnology, Lovely Faculty of Technology and Sciences, 
Lovely Professional University, Phagwara, Punjab, India.
(4)Department of Life Sciences, Presidency University, Kolkata, India. 
Electronic address: abhijit.dbs@presiuniv.ac.in.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Hemidesmus indicus (L.) R. Br. ex Schult. 
(Apocynaceae) is widely used in traditional medicine in the different parts of 
the Indian subcontinent due to the various biological activities attributed to 
its different parts, especially the roots. It has traditionally been used for 
treating snakebites, scorpion stings, diabetes, urinary diseases, dyspnea, 
menorrhagia, oligospermia, anorexia, fever, abdominal colic and pain, dysentery, 
diarrhea, cough, rheumatism, headache, inflammation, pyrosis, skin diseases, 
leprosy, sexually transmitted diseases and cancer. In Ayurveda, the plant is 
used in the treatment of bone-loss, low body weight, fever, stress, topical 
wound and psoriasis. Besides, Ayurvedic literature also depicts its use as 
anti-atherogenic, anti-spasmodic, memory enhancing, immunopotentiating and 
anti-inflammatory agents.
AIM OF THE STUDY: In this review, we aim to present a comprehensive update on 
the ethnopharmacology, phytochemistry, specific pharmacology, and toxicology of 
H. indicus and its bioactive metabolites. Possible directions for future 
research are also outlined in brief.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Popular and widely used international databases such as 
PubMed, Scopus, Science Direct, Google Scholar and JSTOR were searched and 
traditional literature were consulted using the various search strings to 
retrieve a number of citations related to the ethnopharmacology, biological 
activity, toxicology, quality control and phytochemistry of H. indicus. All 
studies on the ethnobotany, phtochemistry, pharmacology, and toxicology of the 
plant up to 2019 were included in this review.
RESULTS: H. indicus has played an important role in traditional Indian medicine 
(including Ayurveda) and also in European medicine. The main pharmacological 
properties of H. indicus include hepatoprotective, anti-cancer, anti-diabetic, 
antioxidant, neuroprotective, anti-ophidian, cardioprotective, nephroprotective, 
anti-ulcerogenic, anti-inflammatory, and antimicrobial properties. Phytochemical 
evaluations of the root have revealed the presence of aromatic aldehydes and 
their derivatives, phenolics, triterpenoids and many other compounds, some of 
which were attributed to its bioactivity. This review also compiles a list of 
Ayurvedic formulations and commercial preparations where H. indicus has been 
used as an active ingredient. We have included the critical assessment of all 
the papers cited in this manuscript based on experimental observation and other 
important points which reflect the loop-holes of research strategy and ambiguity 
in the papers reviewed in this manuscript.
CONCLUSIONS: The study presents an exhaustive and updated review on the 
traditional, pharmacological and phytochemical aspects of H. indicus with notes 
on its quality control and toxicological information. Although the crude 
extracts of H. indicus exhibit an array of pharmacological activities, it is 
high time to identify more active phyto-constituents by bioactivity-guided 
isolation besides elucidating their structure-activity relationship. More 
designed investigations are needed to comprehend the multi-target network 
pharmacology, to clarify the molecular mode of action and to ascertain the 
efficacious doses of H. indicus. Moreover, H. indicus is not fully assessed on 
the basis of its safety and efficacy on human. We hope this review will compile 
and improve the existing knowledge on the potential utilization of H. indicus in 
complementary and alternative medicine.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2020.112609
PMID: 32007632 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest None.