[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: herbal medicine drug interaction pharmacokinetics | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: herbal medicine drug interaction pharmacokinetics]

55. J Ethnopharmacol. 2025 Sep 25;353(Pt A):120350. doi:
10.1016/j.jep.2025.120350.  Epub 2025 Aug 5.

Assessment of potential disease-drug interactions when prescribed Fuzi for 
rheumatoid arthritis treatment, with focus on the pharmacokinetics of aconitine, 
mesaconitine, and hypaconitine.

Lin Y(1), Li X(1), Fu B(1), Xie C(2), Ye L(3).

Author information:
(1)NMPA Key Laboratory for Research and Evaluation of Drug Metabolism & 
Guangdong Provincial Key Laboratory of New Drug Screening, School of 
Pharmaceutical Sciences, Southern Medical University, Guangzhou, 510515, China.
(2)Clinical Pharmacy Center, Nanfang Hospital, Southern Medical University, 
Guangzhou, 510515, China.
(3)NMPA Key Laboratory for Research and Evaluation of Drug Metabolism & 
Guangdong Provincial Key Laboratory of New Drug Screening, School of 
Pharmaceutical Sciences, Southern Medical University, Guangzhou, 510515, China. 
Electronic address: yeling623@hotmail.com.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Fuzi is a toxic traditional Chinese medicine 
that is commonly prescribed for rheumatoid arthritis (RA), while CYP3A4 and P-gp 
are primarily responsible for the metabolism and efflux of its toxic alkaloids: 
aconitine (AC), mesaconitine (MA), and hypaconitine (HA). However, the RA 
condition may induce disease-drug interactions due to the elevated IL-6 and 
TNF-α levels, which significantly inhibit the function of CYPs and P-gp.
AIM OF THE STUDY: To investigate the existence of disease-drug interactions 
during Fuzi treatment for RA, focusing on the pharmacokinetics of AC, MA, and 
HA.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: An RA model in DBA/1J mice was established using type II 
collagen, and the expression levels of Cyp3a11 and P-gp in mice were measured 
under RA conditions. Then, the pharmacokinetics and tissue distribution of AC, 
MA, and HA following the administration of HSP (the preparations of Fuzi) or 
pure alkaloids in both normal and RA model mice were investigated using 
UHPLC-MS/MS. At the same time, we measured the biomarkers indicative of Fuzi's 
cardiotoxicity in plasma after administering HSP or the individual monomers.
RESULTS: In the developed collagen-induced arthritis (CIA) mouse model, we 
observed significant IL-6 and TNF-α elevation accompanied by reduced hepatic 
Cyp3a11 (human CYP3A4 homolog) and P-gp expression. Pharmacokinetic analysis 
revealed remarkable increases in the Cmax and AUC0-t values of AC, MA, and HA 
following oral administration of Fuzi preparations or pure alkaloids in CIA mice 
compared with controls. The accumulation of these alkaloids in the heart (the 
primary target for Fuzi's toxicity), as well as in the intestine, liver, and 
kidneys of CIA mice, was also significantly elevated. Furthermore, CIA mice 
exhibited markedly elevated levels of cardiotoxic markers, creatine kinase, and 
lactate dehydrogenase, which strongly correlated with the AUC0-t values of AC, 
MA, and HA.
CONCLUSION: RA-induced cytokine dysregulation potentiates Fuzi's cardiotoxicity 
through CYP3A4/P-gp suppression-mediated pharmacokinetic alterations. Thus, 
caution should be exercised regarding the potential cardiotoxicity resulting 
from disease-drug interactions in RA patients undergoing treatment with Fuzi.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2025.120350
PMID: 40769444 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper. The present study was performed according to international, national and 
institutional rules considering animal experiments, clinical studies and 
biodiversity rights.