[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: magnetic nanoparticle hyperthermia cancer therapy | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: magnetic nanoparticle hyperthermia cancer therapy]

65. Crit Rev Biomed Eng. 2025;53(6):61-83. doi:
10.1615/CritRevBiomedEng.2025055746.

A Numerical Comparison of Magnetic Nanoparticle Hyperthermia in Breast, Muscle, 
and Prostate Tumors.

Gunakala SR(1), Job VM(2), Murthy PVSN(3), Umakanthan S(4), Ramcharitar V(1).

Author information:
(1)The University of the West Indies.
(2)Faculty of Science and Technology, The University of the West Indies, St. 
Augustine, Trinidad and Tobago.
(3)Department of Mathematics, Indian Institute of Technology, Kharagpur, West 
Bengal, 721302, India.
(4)Department of Paraclinical Sciences, Faculty of Medical Sciences, The 
University of the West Indies, St. Augustine, Trinidad and Tobago.

This study aims to compare the efficacy of magnetic nanoparticle hyperthermia 
for treating cancerous tissues in two distinct scenarios: breast and 
muscle/prostate tumors. Heat transfer dynamics during magnetic hyperthermia 
cancer therapy are explored using intravenously administered nanoparticles to a 
muscle/prostate tumor and intratumoral injection into a breast tumor. Utilizing 
non-Newtonian blood rheological models, we analyze a complex geometric domain 
for both tumor types and apply the mixed finite element technique for solving 
the governing equations. The impact of varying magnetic field frequencies and 
injected nanoparticle concentrations on heat transfer and nanoparticle transport 
within muscle/prostate, and breast tissues are examined numerically. Higher 
magnetic field frequencies and injected nanoparticle concentrations were found 
to increase localized heating in tumor regions, reduce therapy duration, and 
maximize thermal damage to cancer cells for both tumor configurations. This 
research provides valuable insights for optimizing magnetic hyperthermia 
parameters for different tumor types and also highlights the potential for 
personalized treatment strategies.

DOI: 10.1615/CritRevBiomedEng.2025055746
PMID: 41135062 [Indexed for MEDLINE]