[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: biomaterial implant osseointegration titanium clin | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: biomaterial implant osseointegration titanium clinical]

54. Micron. 2005;36(7-8):630-44. doi: 10.1016/j.micron.2005.07.008. Epub 2005 Sep
6.

Peri-implant osteogenesis in health and osteoporosis.

Marco F(1), Milena F, Gianluca G, Vittoria O.

Author information:
(1)Department of Human Anatomical Sciences and Physiopathology of Locomotor 
Apparatus, Via Irnerio 48, 40136 Bologna, Italy. marco.franchi3@unibo.it

Long-term clinical success of endosseous dental implants is critically related 
to a wide bone-to-implant direct contact. This condition is called 
osseointegration and is achieved ensuring a mechanical primary stability to the 
implant immediately after implantation. Both primary stability and 
osseointegration are favoured by micro-rough implant surfaces which are obtained 
by different techniques from titanium implants or coating the titanium with 
different materials. Host bone drilled cavity is comparable to a common bone 
wound. In the early bone response to the implant, the first tissue which comes 
into contact with the implant surface is the blood clot, with particular 
attention to platelets and fibrin. Peri-implant tissue healing starts with an 
inflammatory response as the implant is inserted in the bone cavity, but an 
early afibrillar calcified layer comparable to the lamina limitans or 
incremental lines in bone is just observable at the implant surface both in 
vitro than in vivo conditions. Just within the first day from implantation, 
mesenchymal cells, pre-osteoblasts and osteoblasts adhere to the implant surface 
covered by the afibrillar calcified layer to produce collagen fibrils of osteoid 
tissue. Within few days from implantation a woven bone and then a reparative 
trabecular bone with bone trabeculae delimiting large marrow spaces rich in 
blood vessels and mesenchymal cells are present at the gap between the implant 
and the host bone. The peri-implant osteogenesis can proceed from the host bone 
to the implant surface (distant osteogenesis) and from the implant surface to 
the host bone (contact osteogenesis) in the so called de novo bone formation. 
This early bone response to the implant gradually develops into a biological 
fixation of the device and consists in an early deposition of a newly formed 
reparative bone just in direct contact with the implant surface. Nowadays, 
senile and post-menopausal osteoporosis are extremely diffuse in the population 
and have important consequences on the clinical success of endosseous dental 
implants. In particular the systemic methabolic and site morphological 
conditions are not favorable to primary stability, biological fixation and final 
osseointegration. An early good biological fixation may allow the shortening of 
time before loading the implant, favouring the clinical procedure of early or 
immediate implant loading. Trabecular bone in implant biological fixation is 
gradually substituted by a mature lamellar bone which characterizes the implant 
ossoeintegration. As a final consideration, the mature lamellar bone observed in 
osseointegrated implants is not always the same as a biological turnover occurs 
in the peri-implant bone up to 1mm from the implant surface, with both 
osteogenesis and bone reabsorption processes.

DOI: 10.1016/j.micron.2005.07.008
PMID: 16182543 [Indexed for MEDLINE]