[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Propulsion Mechanics | Topic: Plasma propulsion engine | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Plasma propulsion engine — Overview

2 pounds of thrust maximum. Plasma thrusters are highly efficient in open space, but do nothing to offset the orbit expense of chemical rockets. Engine types Helicon plasma thrusters Helicon plasma thrusters use low-frequency electromagnetic waves (Helicon waves) that exist inside plasma when exposed to a static magnetic field. An RF antenna that wraps around a gas chamber creates waves and excites the gas, creating plasma. The plasma is expelled at high velocity to produce thrust via acceleration strategies that require various combinations of electric and magnetic fields of ideal topology. They belong to the category of electrodeless thrusters. These thrusters support multiple propellants, making them useful for longer missions. They can be made out of simple materials including a glass soda bottle. Magnetoplasmadynamic thrusters 

Magnetoplasmadynamic thrusters (MPD) use the Lorentz force (a force resulting from the interaction between a magnetic field and an electric current) to generate thrust. The electric charge flowing through the plasma in the presence of a magnetic field causes the plasma to accelerate. The Lorentz force is also crucial to the operation of most pulsed plasma thrusters. Pulsed inductive thrusters 

Pulsed inductive thrusters (PIT) also use the Lorentz force to generate thrust, but they do not use electrodes, solving the erosion problem. Ionization and electric currents in the plasma are induced by a rapidly varying magnetic field. Electrodeless plasma thrusters 

Electrodeless plasma thrusters  use the ponderomotive force which acts on any plasma or charged particle when under the influence of a strong electromagnetic energy density gradient to accelerate plasma electrons and ions in the same direction, thereby operating without a neutralizer. VASIMR 

VASIMR, short for Variable Specific Impulse Magnetoplasma Rocket, uses radio waves to ionize a propellant into a plasma. A magnetic field then accelerates the plasma out of the engine, generating thrust. A 200-megawatt VASIMR engine could reduce the time to travel from Earth to Jupiter or Saturn from six years to fourteen months, and from Earth to Mars from 6 months to 39 days. See also 

 Magnetic sail
 Ion thruster
 Spaceflight
 Wingless Electromagnetic Air Vehicle
 Electrically powered spacecraft propulsion
 List of plasma physics articles

References

External links 
 Plasma Propulsion in Space - A.I.P. October, 2000
 Mini-Helicon Plasma Thruster

Russian inventions
Spacecraft propulsion
Plasma technology and applications
Engine technology
Emerging technologies