[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: PMC: laser photodynamic therapy cancer mechanism | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# PMC: laser photodynamic therapy cancer mechanism — Overview

role in the anti-tumor activity of PDT using ATX-S10(Na) and the diode laser. Key words: Photodynamic therapy -- ATX-S10(Na) -- Diode laser -- Porfimer sodium -- Excimer dye laser In recent years, photodynamic therapy (PDT) utilizing systemic administration of photosensitizer and laser irradi- ation has attracted considerable interest.1) This therapy is especially beneficial for preservation of organ functions and for treatment of cancer unsuitable for operation. PDT
has also been developed as a treatment for non-cancerous
diseases, including ophthalmic disorders, such as choroidal
neovascularization,2, 3)
and cardiovascular disease, such as
atherosclerosis.4, 5)
Porfimer sodium is the only commercially available
photosensitizer applied to the treatment of superficial lung,
esophageal, gastric and cervix cancer with combined use
of an excimer dye laser.6, 7)
Although the combination of
porfimer sodium and excimer dye laser shows an excellent
anti-tumor effect on these tumors, hyperphotosensitivity of
skin induced by porfimer sodium forces patients to stay in
the dark for 4 weeks after PDT. In order to reduce the
hyperphotosensitivity and to enhance the potential of PDT,
second-generation photosensitizers are being developed.7-9)
ATX-S10(Na), a hydrophilic chlorin photosensitizer
synthesized by Toyo Hakka Kogyo Co., Ltd. (Okayama) is
accumulated in tumor tissues and rapidly eliminated from
normal tissues within 24-48 h after injection.10-13)
More-
over, its absorption maximum lies at 670 nm, with a high
absorption coefficient of 18500, which is larger than that
of porfimer sodium (3000 at 630 nm). A 670-nm laser
beam can penetrate deeper into tissues than a 630-nm
laser. Therefore, ATX-S10(Na) is an extremely promising
candidate as a second-generation photosensitizer of PDT. In the present study, we evaluated in vitro and in vivo
anti-tumor effects of PDT using ATX-S10(Na) and a 670-
nm diode laser, and compared its efficacy with that of
PDT using porfimer sodium and an excimer dye laser in
human tumor xenograft models. MATERIALS AND METHODS
Photosensitizers ATX-S10(Na), 13,17-bis(1-carboxypro-
pionyl)carbamoylethyl-8-ethenyl-2-hydroxy-3-hydroxyim-
inoethylidene-2,7,12,18-tetramethylporphyrin sodium salt,
was synthesized by Toyo Hakka Kogyo Co., Ltd. Porfimer
sodium was obtained from Wyeth Lederle Japan, Ltd. (Tokyo). In the study of in-vitro anti-tumor effect, ATX-
S10(Na) was dissolved in phosphate-buffered saline (PBS)
at the concentration of 10 mg/ml and diluted with culture
6
To whom correspondence should be addressed. E-mail: morim@labs.wyeth.com
Jpn. J. Cancer Res. 91, July 2000
754
medium to appropriate concentrations. In the in-vivo study,
ATX-S10(Na) and porfimer sodium were dissolved in
physiological saline and 5% glucose solution for injection,
respectively. The chemical structure of ATX-S10(Na) is
shown in Fig. 1. Laser units A diode laser (LD670-05, Hamamatsu Photo-
nics K. K., Hamamatsu) and an excimer dye laser (PDT
EDL-1, Hamamatsu Photonics K. K.) were used as light
sources for exciting ATX-S10(Na) and porfimer sodium,
respectively. The diode laser is a continuous-wave laser
operating at 670-nm wavelength. The excimer dye laser is
a pulsed laser operating at 630-nm wavelength with the
frequency of 40 Hz. Animals Male BALB/c mice purchased from Charles
River Japan, Inc. (Yokohama) were used at 5 weeks of age
for implantation of Meth-A sarcoma. Male BALB/c nude
mice (BALB/c nu/nu) were purchased from Japan SLC,
Inc. (Hamamatsu) and implanted with human tumor cells
at 7-11 weeks of age. After PDT, animals were main-
tained in the dark to avoid skin irritation. Tumors Mouse sarcoma Meth-A cells, mouse colon can-
cer Colon 26 cells, human esophageal cancer T.Tn cells,
human oral cancer KB cells, human cervix cancer HeLa
cells and human lung cancer A549 cells were used in this
study. T.Tn and KB were purchased from Human Science
Research Resource Bank (Osaka), and HeLa was obtained
from Riken Cell Bank (Tsukuba). These cells were grown
in appropriate medium (Dulbecco's modified Eagle's
medium for T.Tn, minimum essential medium with 1%
non-essential amino acid for HeLa, KB and A549,
RPMI1640 medium for Meth-A and Colon 26) supple-
mented with 10% fetal calf serum (FCS) and antibiotics
(100 units/ml benzylpenicillin and 100 g/ml streptomy-
cin) in a humidified atmosphere with 5% CO2 at 37C. In vitro cytotoxicity test of PDT In a 96-well microplate,
5x103
cells/well of human and mouse cancer cells were
incubated with 3.13-50 g/ml ATX-S10(Na) at 37C. The cells were washed with PBS, and irradiated with 25 or
50 J/cm2
using a 670-nm diode laser from the underside of
the culture plate. After 24-h incubation of cells at 37C,
cell viability was determined by MTS tetrazolium colori-
metric assay.14)
Determination of optimum conditions for PDT A sin-
gle cell suspension of 1-3x106
cells of Meth-A sarcoma
was implanted subcutaneously in the right leg of male
BALB/c mice. Nine days after tumor implantation, mice
were intravenously administered with 3.13-25 mg/kg
ATX-S10(Na).