[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS neurology | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS neurology]

20. Curr Neurol Neurosci Rep. 2020 Feb 4;20(1):1. doi: 10.1007/s11910-020-1021-0.

Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation as Treatment in Multiple Neurologic 
Conditions.

Iglesias AH(1).

Author information:
(1)Neurology, Department of Neurology, Loyola University Chicago, Stritch School 
of Medicine, 2160 S. First Avenue, Maywood, IL, 60153, USA. 
antonio.iglesias@lumc.edu.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) is a method of 
Non-Invasive Brain Stimulation that is based on electro-physical principles 
discovered by Michael Faraday. A TMS device is made of one or two copper coils, 
positioned superficially to a site of interest in the brain, to non-invasively 
produce a brief magnetic pulse to an estimated depth from the surface of the 
scalp with the following axonal depolarization. This axonal depolarization 
activates cortical and subcortical networks with multiple effects. There are 
different methods of TMS used, all with different mechanisms of action. TMS is 
well tolerated with very few side effects.
RECENT FINDINGS: TMS is now approved for major depression disorder and 
obsessive-compulsive disorder. There is significant data to consider approval of 
TMS for many neurological disorders. This is a review of the uses of TMS in 
diverse neurological conditions, including stroke and spasticity, migraine, and 
dementia. TMS is a device that utilizes non-invasive brain stimulation, and it 
has shown promising results with objective clinical and basic science data. Its 
ability to trigger neuronal plasticity and potentiating synaptic transmission 
gives it incredible therapeutic potential. There are diverse mechanisms of 
action, and this could be troublesome in elaborating clinical trials and 
standardization of therapy.

DOI: 10.1007/s11910-020-1021-0
PMID: 32020300 [Indexed for MEDLINE]