[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: pharmacognosy medicinal plant active compound isol | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: pharmacognosy medicinal plant active compound isolation]

31. Curr Pharm Teach Learn. 2025 Sep;17(9):102410. doi:
10.1016/j.cptl.2025.102410.  Epub 2025 Jun 7.

Natural product chemistry as an important topic in pharmacy education: 
Situational analysis and recommendations.

Ashour A(1), Mirghani M(2), Mohamed M(3), Osman W(4), Alqarni MH(5), Foudah 
AI(6), Zaki AA(7), Samra RM(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacognosy, Faculty of Pharmacy, Prince Sattam Bin Abdulaziz 
University, Al-kharj, 11942, Saudi Arabia.
(2)Department of Pharmacognosy, Faculty of Pharmacy, University of Khartoum, 
Sudan; Department of Pharmacognosy, Faculty of Pharmacy, International 
University of Africa, Khartoum, Sudan.
(3)Department of Pharmacognosy, Faculty of Pharmacy, University of Khartoum, 
Sudan.
(4)Department of Pharmacognosy, Faculty of Pharmacy, Prince Sattam Bin Abdulaziz 
University, Al-kharj, 11942, Saudi Arabia. Electronic address: 
w.osman@psau.edu.sa.
(5)Department of Pharmacognosy, Faculty of Pharmacy, Prince Sattam Bin Abdulaziz 
University, Al-kharj, 11942, Saudi Arabia. Electronic address: 
m.alqarni@psau.edu.sa.
(6)Department of Pharmacognosy, Faculty of Pharmacy, Prince Sattam Bin Abdulaziz 
University, Al-kharj, 11942, Saudi Arabia. Electronic address: 
a.foudah@psau.edu.sa.
(7)Department of Pharmacognosy, Faculty of Pharmacy, Mansoura University, 
Mansoura 35516, Egypt. Electronic address: ahmed.awad@fulbrightmail.org.
(8)Department of Pharmacognosy, Faculty of Pharmacy, Mansoura University, 
Mansoura 35516, Egypt. Electronic address: rehamsamra@mans.edu.sa.

BACKGROUND: The foundational discipline from which the practice of Pharmacy has 
emerged is commonly recognized as Pharmacognosy. This field can be defined as 
the study of medicinal plants and their derivatives, reflecting the historical 
evolution of drug use, which has transitioned from the formulation of crude 
herbal remedies to the sophisticated isolation and characterization of active 
pharmaceutical compounds in the realm of drug discovery. No scientific subject 
remains static and a modern and comprehensive definition of Pharmacognosy 
includes the analysis of biogenic or naturally derived pharmaceuticals, as well 
as naturally occurring poisons. Rapid advancements of analytical techniques in 
phytochemistry, such as high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC), nuclear 
magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy, and mass spectrometry, which have greatly 
enhanced our ability to identify and quantify bioactive compounds and made 
Pharmacognostical research very informative and interesting. Pharmacognosy is 
confronted with many challenges.
OBJECTIVES: The objective of this review is to assess the current situation of 
Pharmacognosy, as a subject, in the curriculums in some colleges of Pharmacy in 
Middle East, Arab region and some non-Arab African countries; and to evaluate 
its accompaniment with the global increase focus in phytochemistry and 
biological activities in natural products.
METHODS: A list of all Arab, Middle East countries and top ten non-Arab African 
universities was obtained from the website. The top 10 universities of each 
country were obtained from (www.edurank.org). Each university was individually 
searched if it contains a faculty of Pharmacy or not through its official 
website, if the university has no faculty of Pharmacy it was excluded from the 
study. Then, the official websites of the selected faculties of Pharmacy were 
used to obtain the needed information of our study.
RESULTS: A total of 22 Middle East and Arab countries were assessed, including 
80 universities. Only 43 faculties (53.75 %) have a separate Pharmacognosy 
department. Of the 66 faculties, 29 (43.9 %) study courses in applied 
Pharmacognosy, while 37 (56.1 %) do not study any advanced topics in their 
curriculum. Out of 66 faculties, 28 (42.4 %) include Phytotherapy courses in 
their curriculum, while 38 (57.6 %) do not. In non-Arab African countries, 7 out 
of 10 faculties (70 %) have a Pharmacognosy department; only 1 (10 %) lacks 
relevant courses. Additionally, 8 faculties (80 %) cover applied Pharmacognosy 
topics, and 9 faculties (90 %) study Phytotherapy or related subjects.
CONCLUSION: It is essential to address these new requirements while considering 
the historical foundations of Pharmacognosy (classical Pharmacognosy) alongside 
modern advancements in the field. Universities in second world and developing 
countries could enhance their research in Pharmacognosy, which could improve 
their ratings and rankings among international institutions.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cptl.2025.102410
PMID: 40483827 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
have no competing interests to declare that are relevant to the content of this 
review.