[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: Thomas Coke (bishop) | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Thomas Coke (bishop) — Overview

1803 and then spent five years travelling in the cause of Methodist missions, including visiting Sierra Leone. He promoted others in setting up missions in Canada and Scotland. Marriages On 1 April 1805, at the age of 58, Coke married Penelope Goulding Smith, a wealthy woman who happily spent her personal fortune furthering the missions. She travelled with him until her death on 25 January 1811. That same year in December he married for a second time, to Anne Loxdale, and his wife died the following year, 5 December 1812. Death of Coke
He hoped to open Methodist missions in the East Indies and at his own expense he set sail for Ceylon on 30 December 1813. He had in fact tried to persuade the Prime Minister, Lord Liverpool, to appoint him to an Indian bishopric in the Church of England (the appointment of Church of England bishops being then, as now, a prerogative exercised by the Prime Minister on behalf of the Sovereign). However, Coke died after four months at sea on the way to Ceylon (Sri Lanka). It is thought he died of a "fit of apoplexy," or possibly a stroke. He died aboard ship, located 2 degrees, 29 minutes south latitude, and 59 degrees, 29 minutes east longitude, in the Indian Ocean, where he was also laid to rest. Asbury described Coke as "a gentleman, a scholar, a bishop to us; and as a minister of Christ, in zeal, in labours, in services, the greatest man in the last century."

Publications
Coke's publications included:

 A History of the West Indies (3 volumes, 1808–11)
 History of the Bible
 Six Letters in Defence of the Doctrine of Justification by Faith
 Four Discourses on the Duties of a Minister
 Preacher's Manual

He also contributed to Henry Moore's Life of Wesley (1792). See also

List of bishops of the United Methodist Church

References

Sources

General Commission on Archives and History for The United Methodist Church
The John Rylands Library: Mr Wesley's Preachers

External links
 Thomas Coke Commentary on the Holy Bible

1747 births
1814 deaths
18th-century Methodist bishops
18th-century Welsh Anglican priests
18th-century Welsh theologians
19th-century Methodist bishops
19th-century Welsh theologians
Alumni of Jesus College, Oxford
American Methodist Episcopal bishops
Arminian ministers
Arminian theologians
Bishops of the Methodist Episcopal Church
British abolitionists
British letter writers
Burials at sea
Converts to Methodism from Anglicanism
Mayors of places in Wales
Methodism in the Caribbean
Methodist abolitionists
Methodist missionaries in Europe
Methodist missionaries in Sierra Leone
Methodist missionaries in the United States
Methodist theologians
Methodist writers
People educated at Brecon Grammar School
People from Brecon
People who died at sea
Presidents of the Methodist Conference
Protestant missionaries in France
Protestant missionaries in Gibraltar
Protestant missionaries in the Caribbean
Welsh expatriates in the United States
Welsh Methodist missionaries
Welsh theologians