[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: MRI physics image quality artifact reduction | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: MRI physics image quality artifact reduction]

9. Magn Reson Med. 2006 May;55(5):1093-105. doi: 10.1002/mrm.20882.

Combo acquisitions: balancing scan time reduction and image quality.

Mekle R(1), Wu EX, Meckel S, Wetzel SG, Scheffler K.

Author information:
(1)MR-Physics, Department of Medical Radiology, University of Basel/University 
Hospital, Basel, Switzerland. Ralf.Mekle@unibas.ch

Recently a new technique for the combined acquisition of multicontrast images, 
termed "combo acquisition," was introduced. In combo acquisitions, the three 
concepts of 1) variable acquisition parameters, 2) k-space data sharing, and 3) 
multicontrast imaging are systematically integrated to reduce MRI scan time and 
improve data utilization in a clinical setting. In this study, two-contrast and 
three-contrast spin-echo (SE) and turbo spin-echo (TSE) combo acquisition 
protocols that were designed and optimized in simulation experiments were 
implemented on a 1.5 T clinical scanner. Phantom and human brain data from 
volunteers and patients were acquired. Scan time reductions of 25-52% were 
achieved compared to standard acquisitions, largely confirming the simulation 
results. We evaluated the resulting images by quantitatively analyzing the 
preservation of contrast and the signal-to-noise ratio (SNR). In addition, data 
sets for 10 clinical cases obtained with TSE combo and corresponding standard 
acquisitions were graded by two experienced neuroradiologists in terms of the 
level of artifacts and image quality for comparison. Only minor image 
degradation with the combo scans was observed, indicating an inherent trade-off 
between scan time reduction and image quality. The specific aspects of combo 
acquisitions with respect to motion, flow, and k-space data weighting are 
discussed.

Copyright (c) 2006 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/mrm.20882
PMID: 16598731 [Indexed for MEDLINE]