[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Propulsion Mechanics | Topic: Boilerplate (spaceflight) | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Boilerplate (spaceflight) — Overview

assembling and transporting the stack from the Vehicle Assembly Building to Launch Complex 39, as well as procedures required upon its arrival at the launch pad.NASA: OV-101 Vertical Tests In 1985, Enterprise'' was used again for this purpose, this time with the boilerplate configuration used to test the Air Force shuttle facilities at Vandenberg Air Force Base, including a full mating on the SLC-6 launch pad. Orion boilerplate

Development
The construction of the first Orion boilerplate, was a basic mockup prototype to test the assembling sequences and launch procedures at NASA's Langley Research Center while Lockheed aerospace engineers assemble the first rocket motors for the spacecraft's escape tower. The first boilerplate went to Dryden Flight Research Center at Edwards, California, for integration of Lockheed's avionics and NASA's developmental flight instrumentation prior to shipment to New Mexico's White Sands Missile Range for the first Orion pad abort test (PA-1) in 2009. On November 20, 2008 a complete test of the abort rockets took place in Utah. PA-1 is the first of the six test events in Orion Abort Flight Test subproject. Lockheed Martin Corp. was awarded the contract to build Orion on August 31, 2006. Other boilerplates would be used to test thermal, electromagnetic, audio, mechanical vibration conditions and research studies. These tests for the Orion spacecraft would be done at Plum Brook Station in the agency's Ohio-based Glenn Research Center. Photos

Commercial spacecraft boilerplates

In the 2010s, several commercially designed space capsules used boilerplate units on the initial launches of new launch vehicles. The Dragon Spacecraft Qualification Unit was a boilerplate unit launched to orbit on the maiden flight of the SpaceX Falcon 9 rocket, on June 4, 2010. It was built to the outer mold line (OML) and mass distribution of the Dragon spacecraft. The Cygnus Mass Simulator was a boilerplate capsule launched to orbit on the maiden flight of the Orbital Sciences Corporation Antares rocket on April 21, 2013. It was built to outer mold line and mass distribution of the Cygnus spacecraft. On the maiden flight of the SpaceX Falcon Heavy launch vehicle on February 6, 2018, Elon Musk used his Tesla Roadster as a dummy payload with a mannequin driver, which was sent to a heliocentric elliptical orbit with an aphelion of 2.6 AU by the second stage. See also 
 Project Mercury
 Project Gemini
 Project Apollo
 Battleship (rocketry)
 Rendezvous Docking Simulator
 Space Shuttle Pathfinder
 Orion Abort Test Booster

Notes

References 
 MSNBC: Orion Boilerplate Story(updated: 10:11 a.m. MT, Wed., March. 21, 2007)
 BusinessTech: Orion-Ares Story(posted: 6 September 2006 10:41 am ET)
 NASA Apollo History Archives
 Smithsonian NASM: List of Apollo Boilerplates, missions, and launch vehicles

External links 
 AAIA: Orion Boilerplate
 NASA Spaceflight: MLAS – the alternative Orion Launch Abort System gains momentum  (Orion boilerplate being developed)
 HobbySpace: BP-6 now in California
 List of Mercury Boilerplates
 Orion Boilerplate

Apollo program
NASA programs
Project Gemini
Project Mercury
Spacecraft components