[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: Synthesis, Physicochemical Characterization and Applications | Type: OpenAlex-OA | Level: Graduate]

[OpenAlex | Materials Science | Year: 2023 | Citations: 5]

Title: Synthesis, Physicochemical Characterization and Applications of Advanced Nanomaterials

Abstract:
This Special Issue highlights the last decade's progress regarding new nanostructured materials. In this regard, the development of nanoscale syntheses and innovative characterization tools that resulted in the tailored design of nanostructured materials with versatile abilities in many applications were investigated. Various types of engineered nanostructures, usually metal nanoparticles or nanoporous metal oxides, have been synthesized for various applications. This Special Issue covers the state-of-the-art of advanced nanoparticles in many disciplines (chemistry, pharmacy, nanomedicine, agriculture, catalysis, and environmental science). The crystallite sizes depended on the annealing temperature and type of doping ion. A combination of rigid and soft particles could simultaneously enhance both the tensile properties and the fracture toughness, which could not be achieved by the single-phase particles independently. The surface charge and in vitro corrosion resistance are key parameters characterizing biomaterials in the interaction of the implant with the biological environment. Solar energy in the presence of a photocatalyst can be effectively converted into electricity/fuel, break down chemical and microbial pollutants, and help water purification. The saturation magnetization, remanent magnetizations, coercivity, and anisotropy were found to depend on the doping ion, annealing temperature, and particle size. The efficiency of the photocatalysis reaction depends on several factors, including light absorption capacity/light intensity, the type of photocatalyst used, the concentration of a photocatalyst and contaminant particles, the pH of the reaction medium, etc. The variety of color pigments and coloring properties of the targeted application in the ceramic industry was also of interest.