[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: photodynamic therapy cancer clinical trial | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: photodynamic therapy cancer clinical trial]

3. Front Biosci (Landmark Ed). 2023 Jul 21;28(7):144. doi: 10.31083/j.fbl2807144.

Photodynamic Therapy of Breast Cancer in Animal Models and Their Potential Use 
in Clinical Trials-Role of the Photosensitizers: A Review.

Czarnecka-Czapczyńska M(1), Aebisher D(2), Dynarowicz K(3), Krupka-Olek M(1), 
Cieślar G(1), Kawczyk-Krupka A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Angiology and Physical Medicine, Center for 
Laser Diagnostics and Therapy, Medical University of Silesia, 40-055 Katowice, 
Poland.
(2)Department of Photomedicine and Physical Chemistry, Medical College of the 
University of Rzeszów, 35-959 Rzeszów, Poland.
(3)Center for Innovative Research in Medical and Natural Sciences, Medical 
College of the University of Rzeszów, 35-310 Rzeszów, Poland.

In this article, we reviewed the use of photodynamic therapy (PDT) for breast 
cancer (BC) in animal models. These in vivo models imitate the cancer disease 
progression, aid diagnosis, as well as create opportunities to assess treatment 
during the approval process for the new drug. BC ranks first among women's 
cancers. Nowadays, there are many diagnostic methods and therapy options for BC 
but the majority of them have severe side effects. This article discusses the 
advantages and some disadvantages of the use of small and large animals used for 
BC models. A literature review showed that the majority of studies have used 
large animal models, and recently there has been more interest in developing BC 
in small animal models. BC cell lines such as MCF-7, BT-474, MDA-MB-231, and 4T1 
are commercially available for two-dimensional and three-dimensional in vitro 
cell cultures and subcutaneous models. The purpose of this article is to discuss 
the performance of PDT in animal models and its further clinical implications. 
PDT is known to be a non-invasive therapy, which uses monochromatic light and 
energy to excite photosensitizers (PSs) for the generation of reactive oxygen 
species as the required factors. Herein, we discuss the use of five 
photosensitizers in BC models such as chlorin e6 (Ce6), methylene blue, 
indocyanine green, 5-aminolevulinic acid, and meta-tetra(hydroxyphenyl)chlorin. 
The database PubMed and Scopus were searched for keywords: 'photodynamic 
therapy', 'breast cancer', 'animal model', 'clinical studies', and 
'photosensitizer(s)'. The PDT search results in animal experiments and its 
effect on a living organism indicate the possibility of its application in 
clinical trials on women with local and disseminated BC. The availability and 
accessibility of small and large BC animal models enable the progress and trial 
of cancer drugs for innovative technologies and new diagnostics and treatments.

© 2023 The Author(s). Published by IMR Press.

DOI: 10.31083/j.fbl2807144
PMID: 37525921 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.