[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: A Review of BLDC Motor: State of Art, Advanced Control Techn | Type: OpenAlex-OA | Level: Graduate]

[OpenAlex | Applied Magnetism | Year: 2022 | Citations: 355]

Title: A Review of BLDC Motor: State of Art, Advanced Control Techniques, and Applications

Abstract:
Brushless direct current (BLDC) motors are mostly preferred for dynamic applications such as automotive industries, pumping industries, and rolling industries. It is predicted that by 2030, BLDC motors will become mainstream of power transmission in industries replacing traditional induction motors. Though the BLDC motors are gaining interest in industrial and commercial applications, the future of BLDC motors faces indispensable concerns and open research challenges. Considering the case of reliability and durability, the BLDC motor fails to yield improved fault tolerance capability, reduced electromagnetic interference, reduced acoustic noise, reduced flux ripple, and reduced torque ripple. To address these issues, closed-loop vector control is a promising methodology for BLDC motors. In the literature survey of the past five years, limited surveys were conducted on BLDC motor controllers and designing. Moreover, vital problems such as comparison between existing vector control schemes, fault tolerance control improvement, reduction in electromagnetic interference in BLDC motor controller, and other issues are not addressed. This encourages the author in conducting this survey of addressing the critical challenges of BLDC motors. Furthermore, comprehensive study on various advanced controls of BLDC motors such as fault tolerance control, Electromagnetic interference reduction, field orientation control (FOC), direct torque control (DTC), current shaping, input voltage control, intelligent control, drive-inverter topology, and its principle of operation in reducing torque ripples are discussed in detail. This paper also discusses BLDC motor history, types of BLDC motor, BLDC motor structure, Mathematical modeling of BLDC and BLDC motor standards for various applications.