[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: magnetic resonance spectroscopy metabolite brain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: magnetic resonance spectroscopy metabolite brain]

92. Anesthesiology. 1996 Jan;84(1):201-10. doi: 10.1097/00000542-199601000-00022.

Adult rat brain-slice preparation for nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy 
studies of hypoxia.

Espanol MT(1), Litt L, Chang LH, James TL, Weinstein PR, Chan PH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesia, University of California, San Francisco 94143-0648, 
USA.

BACKGROUND: When perfused neonatal brain slices are studied ex vivo with nuclear 
magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy, it is possible to use 31P detection to 
monitor levels of intracellular adenosine triphosphate (ATP), cytosolic pH, and 
other high-energy phosphates and 1H detection to monitor lactate and glutamate. 
Adult brain slices of high metabolic integrity are more difficult to obtain for 
such studies, because the adult cranium is thicker, and postdecapitation revival 
time is shorter. A common clinical anesthesia phenomenon--loss of temperature 
regulation during anesthesia, with surface cooling and deep hypothermia, was 
used to obtain high-quality adult rat cerebrocortical slices for NMR studies.
METHODS: Spontaneously breathing adult rats (350 g), anesthetized with 
isoflurane in a chamber, were packed in ice and cooled until rectal temperatures 
decreased to approximately 30 degrees C. An intraaortic injection of heparinized 
saline at 4 degrees C further cooled the brain to approximately 18 degrees C. 
Slices were obtained and then recovered at 37 degrees C in oxygenated medium. 
Interleaved 31P/1H NMR spectra were acquired continually before, during, and 
after 20 min of no-flow hypoxia (PO2 approximately 0 mmHg). Histologic (Nissl 
stain) measurements were made from random slices removed at different times in 
the protocol. Three types of pretreatment were compared in no-flow hypoxia 
studies. The treatments were: (1) hyperoxia; (2) hypercapnia (50% CO2); and (3) 
hypoxia, which was accomplished by washing the slices with perfusate 
equilibrated with 100% N2 and maintaining a 100% N2 gas flow in the air space 
above the perfusate.
RESULTS: During hyperoxia, 31P NMR metabolite ratios were identical to those 
seen in vivo in adult brains, except that, in vitro, the Pi peak was slightly 
larger than in vivo. A lactate peak was seen in in vitro 1H spectra of slices 
after metabolic recovery from decapitation, although lactate is barely 
detectable in vivo in healthy brains. The in vitro lactate peak was attributed 
to a small population of metabolically impaired cells in an injury layer at the 
cut edge. NMR spectral resolution from the solenoidal coil exceeded that 
obtained in vivo in surface coil experiments. Phosphocreatine and ATP became 
undetectable during oxygen deprivation, which also caused a three- to sixfold 
increase in the ratio of lactate to N-acetyl-aspartate. Within experimental 
error, all metabolite concentrations except pHi recovered to control values 
within 2 h after oxygen restoration. Nissl-stained sections suggested that 
pretreatment with hypercapnia protected neurons from cell swelling during the 
brief period of no-flow oxygen deprivation.
CONCLUSIONS: Perfused, respiring adult brain slices having intact metabolic 
function can be obtained for NMR spectroscopy studies. Such studies have higher 
spectral resolution than can be obtained in vivo. During such NMR experiments, 
one can deliver drugs or molecular probes to brain cells and obtain brain tissue 
specimens for histologic and immunochemical measures of injury. Important ex 
vivo NMR spectroscopy studies that are difficult or impossible to perform in 
vivo are feasible in this model.

DOI: 10.1097/00000542-199601000-00022
PMID: 8572333 [Indexed for MEDLINE]