[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: natural product antibiotic drug discovery | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: natural product antibiotic drug discovery]

46. Biochem Pharmacol. 2017 Jun 15;134:87-98. doi: 10.1016/j.bcp.2016.11.002.
Epub  2016 Nov 4.

New approaches to antimicrobial discovery.

Lewis K(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology and Antimicrobial Discovery Center, Northeastern 
University, Boston, MA 02115, United States. Electronic address: 
k.lewis@neu.edu.

The spread of resistant organisms is producing a human health crisis, as we are 
witnessing the emergence of pathogens resistant to all available antibiotics. An 
increase in chronic infections presents an additional challenge - these diseases 
are difficult to treat due to antibiotic-tolerant persister cells. Overmining of 
soil Actinomycetes ended the golden era of antibiotic discovery in the 60s, and 
efforts to replace this source by screening synthetic compound libraries was not 
successful. Bacteria have an efficient permeability barrier, preventing 
penetration of most synthetic compounds. Empirically establishing rules of 
penetration for antimicrobials will form the knowledge base to produce libraries 
tailored to antibiotic discovery, and will revive rational drug design. Two 
untapped sources of natural products hold the promise of reviving natural 
product discovery. Most bacterial species, over 99%, are uncultured, and methods 
to grow these organisms have been developed, and the first promising compounds 
are in development. Genome sequencing shows that known producers harbor many 
more operons coding for secondary metabolites than we can account for, providing 
an additional rich source of antibiotics. Revival of natural product discovery 
will require high-throughput identification of novel compounds within a large 
background of known substances. This could be achieved by rapid acquisition of 
transcription profiles from active extracts that will point to potentially novel 
compounds.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bcp.2016.11.002
PMID: 27823963 [Indexed for MEDLINE]