[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: nanoparticle drug delivery tumor targeting cancer | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: nanoparticle drug delivery tumor targeting cancer]

100. Crit Rev Oncol Hematol. 2026 May;221:105219. doi: 
10.1016/j.critrevonc.2026.105219. Epub 2026 Feb 15.

Antibody-nanoparticle conjugates for precision targeting of immunosuppressive 
tumor microenvironment.

Fattahi AS(1), Jafari M(2), Farahavar G(3), Haghighi E(4), Abolmaali SS(5), 
Tamaddon AM(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Nanotechnology, Shiraz University of Medical 
Sciences, Shiraz, Iran. Electronic address: saamaanfattahi@gmail.com.
(2)Center for Nanotechnology in Drug Delivery, Shiraz University of Medical 
Sciences, Shiraz, Iran. Electronic address: jafari.mahboob@gmail.com.
(3)Center for Nanotechnology in Drug Delivery, Shiraz University of Medical 
Sciences, Shiraz, Iran. Electronic address: gh_farahavar@yahoo.com.
(4)Department of Pharmaceutical Nanotechnology, Shiraz University of Medical 
Sciences, Shiraz, Iran. Electronic address: elahehaghighi94@gmail.com.
(5)Department of Pharmaceutical Nanotechnology, Shiraz University of Medical 
Sciences, Shiraz, Iran; Center for Nanotechnology in Drug Delivery, Shiraz 
University of Medical Sciences, Shiraz, Iran. Electronic address: 
s.abolmaali@gmail.com.
(6)Center for Nanotechnology in Drug Delivery, Shiraz University of Medical 
Sciences, Shiraz, Iran; Department of Pharmaceutics, Shiraz University of 
Medical Sciences, Shiraz, Iran. Electronic address: amtamadon@sums.ac.ir.

Cancer continues to be a significant global health and socioeconomic issue, with 
an unequal mortality rate in low- and middle-income nations. The progression of 
tumors is influenced by both intrinsic changes within cancer cells and the tumor 
microenvironment (TME), which is a dynamic collection of stromal cells, immune 
infiltrates, extracellular matrix, and soluble mediators that together encourage 
immune suppression, angiogenesis, and resistance to treatment. 
Antibody-conjugated nanoparticles (ACNPs) combine antibody-mediated molecular 
recognition with nanoscale drug delivery systems to selectively target malignant 
cells and important components of the TME. In preclinical and early clinical 
studies, representative ACNP classes, including monoclonal antibodies or 
antibody fragments conjugated to liposomes, polymeric nanoparticles, metallic 
cores, or lipid-polymer hybrids, have exhibited enhanced tumor association and 
context-dependent intratumoral delivery, as well as the ability to modulate 
suppressive TME elements such as M2-like tumor-associated macrophages and 
cancer-associated fibroblasts. Nonetheless, clinical translation is impeded by 
significant biological and translational obstacles, such as tumor heterogeneity, 
restricted tissue penetration, swift elimination by the mononuclear phagocyte 
system, immunogenicity-associated safety concerns, and challenges in 
manufacturing and scaling up. In this paper, we critically examine ACNP design 
strategies, compare antibody formats and conjugation chemistries, and compile 
mechanistic evidence from in vitro, in vivo, and early clinical studies 
published up to 2025. We further investigate ACNP-based combination regimens 
targeting TME modulation and conclude by delineating translational priorities 
and practical design considerations necessary for achieving consistent 
therapeutic efficacy in heterogeneous human tumors.

Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.critrevonc.2026.105219
PMID: 41702478 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
state that the research was carried out without any commercial or financial ties 
that could be seen as potential conflicts of interest.