[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: herbal medicine drug interaction pharmacokinetics | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: herbal medicine drug interaction pharmacokinetics]

58. Eur J Drug Metab Pharmacokinet. 2016 Apr;41(2):93-108. doi: 
10.1007/s13318-015-0296-z.

Pharmacokinetic Herb-Drug Interactions: Insight into Mechanisms and 
Consequences.

Oga EF(1), Sekine S(2), Shitara Y(3), Horie T(4).

Author information:
(1)School of Pharmacy and Biomedical Sciences, University of Central Lancashire, 
Preston, Lancashire, PR1 2HE, UK. eoga@uclan.ac.uk.
(2)Department of Biopharmaceutics, Chiba University, Chiba, Japan.
(3)Pharmacokinetics Laboratory, Meiji Seika Pharma Co., Ltd, Yokohama, Japan.
(4)Department of Biopharmaceutics and Molecular Toxicology, Teikyo Heisei 
University, Tokyo, Japan.

Herbal medicines are currently in high demand, and their popularity is steadily 
increasing. Because of their perceived effectiveness, fewer side effects and 
relatively low cost, they are being used for the management of numerous medical 
conditions. However, they are capable of affecting the pharmacokinetics and 
pharmacodynamics of coadministered conventional drugs. These interactions are 
particularly of clinically relevance when metabolizing enzymes and xenobiotic 
transporters, which are responsible for the fate of many drugs, are induced or 
inhibited, sometimes resulting in unexpected outcomes. This article discusses 
the general use of herbal medicines in the management of several ailments, their 
concurrent use with conventional therapy, mechanisms underlying herb-drug 
interactions (HDIs) as well as the drawbacks of herbal remedy use. The authors 
also suggest means of surveillance and safety monitoring of herbal medicines. 
Contrary to popular belief that "herbal medicines are totally safe," we are of 
the view that they are capable of causing significant toxic effects and altered 
pharmaceutical outcomes when coadministered with conventional medicines. Due to 
the paucity of information as well as sometimes conflicting reports on HDIs, 
much more research in this field is needed. The authors further suggest the need 
to standardize and better regulate herbal medicines in order to ensure their 
safety and efficacy when used alone or in combination with conventional drugs.

DOI: 10.1007/s13318-015-0296-z
PMID: 26311243 [Indexed for MEDLINE]