[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: ethnobotany traditional medicine biological activi | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: ethnobotany traditional medicine biological activity]

98. J Ethnopharmacol. 2020 Oct 5;260:112946. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2020.112946. Epub
 2020 May 31.

Zanthoxylum nitidum (Roxb.) DC: Traditional uses, phytochemistry, 
pharmacological activities and toxicology.

Lu Q(1), Ma R(1), Yang Y(1), Mo Z(1), Pu X(1), Li C(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Zunyi Medical University, Zhuhai 
Campus, Zhuhai, 519041, PR China.
(2)Department of Pharmacology, Zunyi Medical University, Zhuhai Campus, Zhuhai, 
519041, PR China. Electronic address: licailan@zmu.edu.cn.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Zanthoxylum nitidum (Roxb.) DC. (Z. nitidum), 
which is known in China as Liang-Mian-Zhen, is mainly distributed in southern 
China and is widely used in traditional Chinese medicine. It is traditionally 
used for treating stomach ache, toothache, rheumatic arthralgia, traumatic 
injury and venomous snake bites. Additional medical applications include the 
treatment of inflammations, various types of cancer, bacterial and viral 
infections, gastric and oral ulcers and liver damage.
AIM OF THIS REVIEW: This paper aims to offer up-to-date information on the 
botany, traditional uses, phytochemistry, pharmacology and toxicity of Z. 
nitidum. This review also discussed the perspectives for possible future 
research on Z. nitidum.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A comprehensive review was carried out on studies about 
Z. nitidum conducted in the past 60 years by using different resources, 
including Flora of China, Pharmacopoeia of the People's Republic of China and 
academic databases.
RESULTS: At present, more than 150 chemical constituents have been separated and 
identified from Z. nitidum, most of which include alkaloids. Biological 
activities, including anti-inflammation, analgesia, haemostasis, anticancer and 
antibacterial, were determined via in vitro and in vivo studies. The variations 
in the efficacy of Z. nitidum can be attributed to the biological activities of 
its natural products, especially alkaloids. Toxicity studies on Z. nitidum are 
relatively few, thus requiring further study.
CONCLUSIONS: This article generalises the current research achievements related 
to Z. nitidum, which is an important medicinal material in China. Some 
traditional uses of Z. nitidum have been assessed by pharmacological studies. 
Unresolved problems remain, including molecular mechanisms underlying biological 
activities, pharmacokinetics, toxicology and therapeutic effect, which are still 
being studied and explored before Z. nitidum can be integrated into clinical 
medicine.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2020.112946
PMID: 32492492 [Indexed for MEDLINE]