[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: Electric aircraft | Type: Instruction-QA | Level: Graduate]

Question: Provide a comprehensive expert-level explanation of Electric aircraft in the context of Applied Sciences.

Answer:
An electric aircraft is an aircraft powered by electricity.

Electric aircraft are seen as a way to reduce the environmental effects of aviation, providing zero emissions and quieter flights.

Electricity may be supplied by a variety of methods, the most common being batteries.

Most have electric motors driving propellers or turbines.

Crewed flights in an electrically powered airship go back to the 19th century, and to 1917 for a tethered helicopter.

Electrically powered model aircraft have been flown at least since 1957, preceding the small unmanned aerial vehicles (UAV) or drones used today. Small UAS could be used for parcel deliveries, and larger ones for long-endurance applications: aerial imagery, surveillance, telecommunications.

The first crewed free flight by an electrically powered aeroplane, the MB-E1, was made in 1973, and most crewed electric aircraft today are still only experimental prototypes.

Between 2015 and 2016, Solar Impulse 2 completed a circumnavigation of the Earth using solar power.

Electric VTOL aircraft or personal air vehicles are being considered for Urban Air Mobility.

Electric commercial airliners could lower operating costs.

Environmental effects of aviation

The environmental effects of aviation on climate change have become a major driving force for the development of electric aircraft, with a zero-emissions electric powertrain being the goal for some development teams. Aviation accounts for 2.4% of all fossil fuel derived  emissions, and its emissions of air transportation altogether increased by 32% between 2013 and 2018. While estimating aviation's non- effects on climate change is complex, NOx and contrails could increase this responsibility to 3.5%. Other benefits are the potential for noise reduction, in an industry with a severe noise pollution and abatement problem.

Offboard power supply
Mechanisms for supplying the necessary electricity without storing all of it onboard include:
Solar cells convert sunlight directly into electricity using photovoltaic materials.
Microwave energy that is beamed from a remote transmitter.
Power cables connected to a ground-based electrical supply.

Solar cells

A solar cell converts sunlight directly into electricity, either for direct power or temporary storage. The power output of solar cells is low and requires that many be connected together, which limits their use. Typical solar panels running at 15–20% conversion efficiency (sunlight energy to electrical power) produce about  in direct sunlight. Usable areas are further limited as output from a poorly performing panel impacts the output of all the panels on its circuit, meaning they all require similar conditions, including being at a similar angle to the sun, and not being masked by shadow.

Between 2010 and 2020, solar power modules have declined in cost by 90% and continue to drop by 13–15% per year. Solar cell efficiency has also risen substantially, from 2% in 1955 to 20% in 1985, and some experimental systems now exceed 44%. However, most of the technologies at these high efficiencies have only been possible under laboratory settings and not at full-scale production level.

The free availability of sunlight makes solar power attractive for high-altitude, long-endurance applications, where the cold and reduced atmospheric interference make them significantly more efficient than on the ground. The drop in the dry-air temperature as altitude increases, called the environmental lapse rate (ELR), averages 6.49 °C/km (memorized in pilot training as  1.98 °C/1,000 ft or 3.56 °F/1,000 feet) so that temperature for a typical airliner's cruising altitude of around  will be substantially lower than at ground level.

Night flying, such for endurance flights and with aircraft providing 24 hour coverage over an area typically require a backup storage system, which is charged during the day from surplus power, and supplies power during the hours of darkness.

Microwaves
Power beaming of electromagnetic energy such as microwaves relies on a ground-based power source. However, compared to using a power cable, power beaming allows the aircraft to move laterally and carries a much lower weight penalty, particularly as altitude increases. The technology has only been demonstrated on small models and awaits practical development at larger scales.

External power cables
For powered vehicles replacing tethered aerostats, an electrical power cable can be connected to a ground-based supply, such as an electric generator or the local power grid. At low altitudes this avoids having to lift batteries, and was used by the experimental Petróczy-Kármán-Žurovec PKZ-1 observation vehicle of 1917. However the higher it flies, the heavier the length of cable it lifts becomes.

Power storage
Mechanisms for storing the necessary electricity include:
Batteries which use a chemical reaction to generate electricity which is reversed when recharged.
Fuel cells consume fuel and an oxidizer in a chemical reaction to generate electricity, they need to be refueled, typically with hydrogen.

Batteries

Batteries are the most common onboard energy storage component of electric aircraft, due to their relatively high storage capacity. Batteries first powered airships in the nineteenth century but the lead–acid batteries were very heavy and it was not until the arrival of other chemistries, such as nickel–cadmium (NiCd) later in the twentieth century, that batteries became practical for heavier-than-air aircraft. Modern batteries are mostly rechargeable types based on lithium technologies.

Lithium polymer (LiPo), a type of lithium-ion batteries (LIB), have long been applied in unmanned flight for their light weight and rechargeability. However, their energy density limits their application mostly to being drone batteries. Increasing maximum time of flight by simply designing larger aircraft using larger batteries is inefficient, because of the payload-range compromise. After a certain increa