[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: pharmacognosy medicinal plant active compound isol | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: pharmacognosy medicinal plant active compound isolation]

54. J Ethnopharmacol. 2020 Jan 10;246:112211. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2019.112211.
Epub  2019 Sep 15.

Nardostachys jatamansi (D.Don) DC.-Challenges and opportunities of harnessing 
the untapped medicinal plant from the Himalayas.

Dhiman N(1), Bhattacharya A(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Biotechnology, CSIR-Institute of Himalayan Bio-Resource 
Technology, Palampur, 176061, Himachal Pradesh, India; Academy of Scientific and 
Innovative Research (AcSIR), CSIR-Institute of Himalayan Bio-Resource 
Technology, Palampur, 176061, Himachal Pradesh, India.
(2)Division of Biotechnology, CSIR-Institute of Himalayan Bio-Resource 
Technology, Palampur, 176061, Himachal Pradesh, India; Academy of Scientific and 
Innovative Research (AcSIR), CSIR-Institute of Himalayan Bio-Resource 
Technology, Palampur, 176061, Himachal Pradesh, India. Electronic address: 
amitabhatta@ihbt.res.in.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Nardostachys jatamansi (D.Don) DC. (family 
Caprifoliaceae) is prized in the Chinese, Tibetan, Nepalese, Bhutanese, Indian 
and Japanese systems of medicine. Its medicinal properties are well documented 
in ancient literature such as the Ayurvedic classics, the Old Testament, 
Ben-Cao- Shi-Yi, and Homer's Iliad. The plant is critically endangered and found 
in the alpine and sub-alpine regions of the Himalayas.
AIM OF THE STUDY: Our study aims to show the challenges and opportunities of 
harnessing the untapped pharmaceutical resources of N. jatamansi. Another aim is 
to explore the possibilities of translating ethnobotanical information into 
health benefit applications.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The sources of information used in the study are 
government reports, dissertations, books, research articles and databases like 
Science-Direct, SciFinder, Web of Science, PubMed, Wiley Online Library, and ACS 
Publications on N. jatamansi.
RESULTS AND DISCUSSION: In the study, we have examined and discussed reports on 
phytochemicals present in the plant, their structure, biological activity, 
pharmacological properties of extracts derived from plant parts, isolated 
compounds, and commercially available products from the plant. We have 
identified and discussed ambiguities and confusions about the plant's 
nomenclature and geographical distribution, and highlighted various studies that 
failed to discuss this issue. We analyzed the links between various reports on 
ethnobotanical information as well as studies on phytochemistry and 
pharmacologyconfirming the therapeutic properties of N. jatamansi. However, in 
many of these findings which had used dried samples, there was an uncanny 
resemblance between the phytochemical profiles and biological activities of N. 
jatamansi and Valeriana jatamansi Jones ex Roxb. (another genus from family, 
Caprifoliaceae). Since both the species share identical vernacular names, a 
possible reason could be that the samples may not have been of two separate 
species. Other limitations of different studies were the use of out-dated 
techniques for phytochemical profiling, absence of toxicology studies using 
animal models and clinical trials using human subjects.
CONCLUSIONS: Analysis of various studies revealed a confusion about the 
botanical nomenclature of the plants and their geographical distributions. 
Absence of proper markers for identification of correct samples and improperly 
conducted studies on N. jatamansi were found to be the major hurdles to the use 
of ethnobotanical information and research findings into applications for human 
health. Development of markers using molecular, chemical and pharmacognosy based 
approaches for plant authentication and, in vitro propagation of authenticated 
material for easy availability of genuine plant material are the possible 
solutions to the problems identified.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2019.112211
PMID: 31533076 [Indexed for MEDLINE]