[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: plant alkaloid biosynthesis pathway elucidation | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: plant alkaloid biosynthesis pathway elucidation]

47. Front Endocrinol (Lausanne). 2024 Dec 20;15:1506430. doi: 
10.3389/fendo.2024.1506430. eCollection 2024.

Ramulus Mori (Sangzhi) alkaloids ameliorate high-fat diet induced obesity in 
rats by modulating gut microbiota and bile acid metabolism.

Shang X(1)(2), Fu Y(1), Wang Y(3), Yan S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Endocrinology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Henan 
University of Chinese Medicine, Zhengzhou, China.
(2)School of First Clinical, Henan University of Chinese Medicine, Zhengzhou, 
China.
(3)Department of Geriatrics, First Affiliated Hospital of Zhengzhou University, 
Zhengzhou, China.

OBJECTIVE: The objective of this study is to investigate the ability of Ramulus 
Mori (Sangzhi) alkaloid tablets (SZ-A) to ameliorate obesity and lipid 
metabolism disorders in rats subjected to a high-fat diet (HFD) through 
metagenomics, untargeted lipidomics, targeted metabolism of bile acid (BA), and 
BA pathways, providing a novel perspective on the management of metabolic 
disorders.
METHODS: In this research, HFD-fed rats were concurrently administered SZ-A 
orally. We measured changes in body weight (BW), blood lipid profiles, and liver 
function to assess therapeutic effects. Liver lipid status was visualized 
through H&E and Oil Red O. Gut microbiota composition was elucidated using 
metagenomics. The LC-MS-targeted metabolomics approach was utilized to define 
the fecal BA profiles. Furthermore, the lipid metabolomics of adipose tissue 
samples was investigated using an LC-MS analysis platform. The expression levels 
of the BA receptor were determined by western blotting. Additionally, serum 
insulin (INS), glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1), and inflammatory cytokines were 
quantified using an ELISA kit. The integrity of the colonic epithelial barrier 
was assessed using immunofluorescence.
RESULTS: SZ-A notably decreased BW and blood lipid levels in obese rats while 
also alleviating liver injury. Additionally, SZ-A reduced the serum levels of 
leptin (LEP), INS, and GLP-1, indicating its potential to modulate key metabolic 
hormones. Most notably, SZ-A substantially improved gut microbiota composition. 
Specifically, it reshaped the gut microbiota structure in HFD-fed rats by 
increasing the relative abundance of beneficial bacteria, such as Bacteroides, 
while decreasing the populations of potentially harmful bacteria, such as Dorea 
and Blautia. At the BA level, SZ-A decreased the levels of harmful BAs, 
including hyodeoxycholic acid (HDCA), deoxycholic acid (DCA), 12-keto 
lithocholic acid (12-KLCA), lithocholic acid (LCA), and muricholic acid (MDCA). 
Between the model group and SZ-A, 258 differentially abundant metabolites were 
detected, with 72 upregulated and 186 downregulated. Furthermore, these BAs are 
implicated in the activation of the FXR-FGF15 and TGR5-GLP-1 pathways in the 
intestine. This activation helps to alleviate HFD-fed intestinal inflammation 
and restore intestinal barrier damage by modulating inflammatory cytokines and 
bolstering the intestinal barrier's capabilities.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings indicate that SZ-A effectively modulates BW, serum 
lipid profiles, and liver function in HFD-fed rats. Moreover, SZ-A exerts a 
positive influence on inflammatory cytokines, thereby mitigating inflammation 
and promoting the restoration of the intestinal barrier. Significantly, our 
research indicates that adjusting the gut microbiome and BA levels could serve 
as an effective approach for both preventing and treating obesity and related 
metabolic dyslipidemia.

Copyright © 2024 Shang, Fu, Wang and Yan.

DOI: 10.3389/fendo.2024.1506430
PMCID: PMC11695234
PMID: 39758340 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.