[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: Diffraction topography | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Diffraction topography — Overview

lattice quality and perfection. Spatial resolution is, in many cases, essentially given by the detector pixel size. The technique of sequential topography, in combination with appropriate data analysis methods also called rocking curve imaging, constitutes a method of microdiffraction imaging, i.e. a combination of X-ray imaging with X-ray diffractometry. Literature: MAXIM The "MAXIM" (MAterials X-ray IMaging) method is another method combining diffraction analysis with spatial resolution. It can be viewed as serial topography with additional angular resolution in the exit beam. In contrast to the Rocking Curve Imaging method, it is more appropriate for more highly disturbed (polycrystalline) materials with lower crystalline perfection. The difference on the instrumental side is that MAXIM uses an array of slits / small channels (a so-called "multi-channel plate" (MCP), the two-dimensional equivalent of a Soller slit system) as an additional X-ray optical element between sample and CCD detector. These channels transmit intensity only in specific, parallel directions, and thus guarantee a one-to-one-relation between detector pixels and points on the sample surface, which would otherwise not be given in the case of materials with high strain and/or a strong mosaicity. The spatial resolution of the method is limited by a combination of detector pixel size and channel plate periodicity, which in the ideal case are identical. The angular resolution is mostly given by the aspect ratio (length over width) of the MCP channels. Literature:

Literature 
 Books (chronological order):
 Tanner, Brian: X-ray diffraction topography. Pergamon Press (1976).. Authier, André and Lagomarsino, Stefano and Tanner, Brian K. (editors): X-Ray and Neutron Dynamical Diffraction – Theory and Applications. Plenum Press / Kluwer Academic Publishers (1996). . Bowen, Keith and Tanner, Brian: High Resolution X-Ray Diffractometry and Topography. Taylor and Francis (1998). . Authier, André: Dynamical theory of X-ray diffraction. IUCr monographs on crystallography, no. 11. Oxford University Press (1st edition 2001/ 2nd edition 2003). . Reviews
 Lang, A. R.: Techniques and interpretation in X-ray topography. In: Diffraction and Imaging Techniques in Materials Science (edited by Amelinckx S., Gevers R. and Van Landuyt J.) 2nd ed. rev. (1978), pp 623–714. Amsterdam: North Holland. Klapper, Helmut: X-ray topography of organic crystals. In: Crystals: Growth, Properties and Applications, vol. 13 (1991), pp 109–162. Berlin-Heidelberg: Springer. Lang, A. R.: Topography. In: International Tables for Crystallography, Vol. C (1992), Section 2.7, p. 113. Kluwer, Dordrecht. Tuomi, T: Synchrotron X-ray topography of electronic materials. Journal of Synchrotron Radiation (2002) 9, 174-178. Baruchel, J. and Härtwig, J. and Pernot-Rejmánková, P.: Present state and perspectives of synchrotron radiation diffraction imaging. Journal of Synchrotron Radiation (2002) 9, 107-114. Selected original articles (chronological order):
 X-ray topography
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 T. Tuomi, K. Naukkarinen, E. Laurila, P. Rabe: Rapid high resolution X-ray topography with synchrotron radiation. Acta Polytechnica Scandinavica, Ph. Incl. Nucleonics Series No. 100, (1973), 1-8. Special applications:
 
 
 
 Instrumentation and beamlines for topography:

See also 
Crystallography
Dynamical theory of x-ray diffraction
High energy X-rays
X-ray diffraction
X-ray imaging
X-ray optics

References

External links 
 Topography: Introductions and tutorials on the web
 "A Brief History of X-Ray Diffraction Topography" by J.F. Kelly, University of London (GB)
 "X-ray topography - practice guide" by D. Black, G. Long, NIST (USA)
 "X-ray topography": Introduction from PTB, Braunschweig (Germany)
 Chapter from script on "defects in crystals" by Prof. H. Foell, University of Kiel (Germany)
 "Characterization of crystalline materials by X-Ray topography" - Introduction by Y. Epelboin, Paris-Jussieu (France)
 "X-ray diffraction imaging (X-ray topography) - An Overview about Techniques and Applications" by J. Haertwig, ESRF, Grenoble (France)
 The same, slightly different format
 Topography beamlines at synchrotrons:
 Imaging Beamline (ID19) of the European Synchrotron ESRF, Grenoble (France)
 TOPO Beamline at ANKA, Karlsruhe (Germany)
 Beamline F1 of HASYLAB at DESY, Hamburg (Germany)
 National Synchrotron Light Source (NSLS), Kansas (USA)
 SPring-8, near Himeji (Japan)

Crystallography
Imaging