[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: Photothermal therapy | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Photothermal therapy — Overview

is different from that of inorganic PTAs such as metals and semiconductors which is related with surface plasmon resonance. As shown in the figure, conjugated polymers are first activated to the excited state (S1) under light irradiation and then excited state (S1) decays back to the ground state (S0) via three processes: (I) emitting a photon (fluorescence), (II) intersystem crossing, and (III) nonradiative relaxation (heat generation). Because these three pathways of the S1 decaying back to the S0 are usually competitive in photosensitive materials, light emitting and intersystem crossing must be efficiently reduced in order to increase the heat generation and improve the photothermal conversion efficiency. For conjugated polymers, on the one hand, their unique structures lead to closed stacking of the molecular sensitizers with highly frequent intermolecular collisions which can efficiently quench the fluorescence and intersystem crossing, and thus enhance the yield of nonradiative relaxation. On the other hand, compared with monomeric phototherapeutic molecules, conjugated polymers possess higher stability in vivo against disassembly and photobleaching, longer blood circulation time, and more accumulation at tumor site due to the enhanced permeability and retention (EPR) effect. Therefore, conjugated polymers have high photothermal conversion efficiency and a large amount of heat generation. One of the most widely used equations to calculate photothermal conversion efficiency (η) of organic PTAs is as follows:

η = (hAΔΤmax-Qs)/I(1-10-Aλ)

where h is the heat transfer coefficient, A is the container surface area, ΔΤmax means the maximum temperature change in the solution, Aλ means the light absorbance, I is the laser power density, and Qs is the heat associated with the light absorbance of the solvent. Furthermore, various efficient methods, especially donor-acceptor (D-A) strategy, have been designed to enhance the photothermal conversion efficiency and heat generation of conjugated polymers. The D-A assembly system in the conjugated polymers contributes to strong intermolecular electron transfer from the donor to the acceptor, thus bringing efficient fluorescence and intersystem crossing quenching, and improved heat generation. In addition, the HOMO-LUMO gap of the D−A conjugated polymers can be easily tuned through changing the selection of electron donor (ED) and electron acceptor (EA) moieties, and thus D−A structured polymers with extremely low band gap can be developed to improve the NIR absorption and photothermal conversion efficiency of CPs. Polyaniline (PANI) 

Polyaniline (PANI) is one of the earliest types of conjugated polymers reported for tumor PTT. Polypyrrole (PPy) 

Polypyrrole (PPy) is suited for PTT applications because of its strong NIR absorbance, large PCE, stability, and biocompatibility. In vivo experiments show that tumors treated with PPy NPs could be effectively eliminated under the irradiation of an 808 nm laser (1 W cm−2, 5 min). PPy nanosheets exhibit promising photothermal ablation ability toward cancer cells in the NIR II window for  deep-tissue PTT. PPy nanoparticles and its derivative nanomaterials can also be combined with imaging contrast agents and diverse drugs to construct multifunctional theranostic applications in imaging-guided PTT and synergistic treatment, including fluorescent imaging, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), photoacoustic imaging (PA), computed tomography (CT), photodynamic therapy (PDT), chemotherapy, etc. For example, PPy has been used to encapsulate ultrasmall iron oxide nanoparticles (IONPs) and finally develop IONP@PPy NPs for in vivo MR and PA imaging-guided PTT. Polypyrrole (I-PPy) nanocomposites have been investigated for CT imaging-guided tumor PTT. Polythiophene (PTh) 

Polythiophene (PTh) and its derivatives-based polymers are also one kind of conjugated polymers for PTT. Polythiophene-based polymers usually exhibit excellent photostability, large light-harvesting ability, easy synthesis, and facile functionalization with different substituents. Conjugated copolymer (C3) with promising photothermal properties can be prepared by linking 2-N,N′-bis(2-(ethyl)hexyl)-perylene-3,4,9,10-tetra-carboxylic acid bis-imide to a thienylvinylene oligomer. C3 was coprecipitated with PEG-PCL and indocyanine green (ICG) to obtain PEG-PCL-C3-ICG nanoparticles for fluorescence-guided photothermal/photodynamic therapy against oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC). A biodegradable PLGA-PEGylated DPPV (poly{2,2′-[(2,5-bis(2-hexyldecyl)-3,6-dioxo-2,3,5,6-tetrahydropyrrolo[3,4-c]-pyrrole-1,4-diyl)-dithiophene]-5,5′-diyl-alt-vinylene) conjugated polymer for PA-guided PTT with PCE 71% (@ 808 nm, 0.3 W cm−2). The vinylene bonds in the main chain improves the biodegradability, biocompatibility and photothermal conversion efficiency of CPs. Polydopamine (PDA) 

Dopamine is one of neurotransmitters in the body which helps cells send impulses. Polydopamine (PDA) is obtained through the self-aggregation of dopamine to form a melanin-like substance under mild alkaline conditions.