[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: MRI physics image quality artifact reduction | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: MRI physics image quality artifact reduction]

95. Invest Radiol. 2015 Jul;50(7):423-9. doi: 10.1097/RLI.0000000000000146.

Incorporation of Time-of-Flight Information Reduces Metal Artifacts in 
Simultaneous Positron Emission Tomography/Magnetic Resonance Imaging: A 
Simulation Study.

Davison H(1), ter Voert EE, de Galiza Barbosa F, Veit-Haibach P, Delso G.

Author information:
(1)From the *Department of Nuclear Medicine, University Hospital Zurich, 
University of Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland; †Department of Medical Physics, Royal 
United Hospitals Bath NHS Foundation Trust, Bath, United Kingdom; ‡Department of 
Diagnostic and Interventional Radiology, University Hospital Zurich, Zurich, 
Switzerland; and §GE Healthcare, Waukesha, WI.

OBJECTIVES: This study aimed to describe and evaluate the influence of 
time-of-flight (TOF) information on metal artifact reduction in positron 
emission tomography (PET) image quality in clinical simultaneous PET/magnetic 
resonance (MR) scanning.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A total of 7 patients with various malignant tumors were 
included and underwent a PET/MR examination after standard PET/computed 
tomography. Baseline TOF and non-TOF PET images were reconstructed. Next, the 
TOF and non-TOF PET reconstructions were repeated after the introduction of 
artificial signal voids in the attenuation map to simulate metal artifacts of 
various sizes in a range of locations. Three different sizes of signal voids 
were inserted in the attenuation maps for each location of interest: over the 
maxilla, humeral head, chest, sternum, thoracic and lumbar spine, as well as the 
femoral head to replicate clinically relevant metal artifacts. The reconstructed 
images with the artifacts were then compared with the baseline reconstructed 
images. The mean percentage error in a region of interest surrounding the 
simulated artifact was used to compare between TOF and non-TOF images. Further 
comparison between TOF and non-TOF images was performed using histogram 
analysis.
RESULTS: In all cases, the mean percentage error in a region of interest 
surrounding the simulated artifact was reduced when TOF information was included 
in the reconstruction. The inclusion of TOF also changes the distribution of 
smaller errors away from the origin of the artifact. In some anatomical regions, 
an increase in the number of small errors was noted with TOF, although the 
differences with non-TOF were minimal.
CONCLUSIONS: Positron emission tomographic imaging benefits from the integration 
of TOF information in simultaneous PET/MR. The inclusion of TOF information in 
simultaneous PET/MR imaging reduces errors related to metal artifacts at the 
site of the artifact.

DOI: 10.1097/RLI.0000000000000146
PMID: 25756682 [Indexed for MEDLINE]