[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Complex Circuit Systems | Topic: Cadence Design Systems | Type: Instruction-QA | Level: Graduate]

Question: Provide a comprehensive expert-level explanation of Cadence Design Systems in the context of Applied Sciences.

Answer:
Cadence Design Systems, Inc. (stylized as cādence), headquartered in San Jose, California, is an American multinational computational software company, founded in 1988 by the merger of SDA Systems and ECAD, Inc. The company produces software, hardware, and silicon structures for designing integrated circuits, systems on chips (SoCs), and printed circuit boards.

History
Cadence Design Systems began as an electronic design automation (EDA) company, formed by the 1988 merger of Solomon Design Automation (SDA), co-founded in 1983 by Richard Newton, Alberto Sangiovanni-Vincentelli, and James Solomon, and ECAD, a public company co-founded by Ping Chao, Glen Antle, and Paul Huang in 1982. SDA's CEO Joseph Costello was appointed as CEO of the newly combined company.

Following the resignation of Cadence's original CEO Joe Costello in 1997, Jack Harding was appointed CEO. Ray Bingham was named CEO in 1999. In 2004, Mike Fister became Cadence's new CEO.

In 2008, Cadence's board appointed Lip-Bu Tan as acting CEO, after the resignation of Mike Fister; Tan had served on the Cadence board of directors since 2004. In January 2009, the board of directors of Cadence voted unanimously to confirm Lip-Bu Tan as president and CEO. Tan had been most recently CEO of Walden International, a venture capital firm, where he remains chairman of the firm.

In April 2021, following a Washington Post report on the use of Cadence and Synopsys technology in the People's Liberation Army's military-civil fusion efforts, U.S. legislators Michael McCaul and Tom Cotton requested that the United States Department of Commerce tighten controls on the sales of semiconductor manufacturing software.

On December 15, 2021, Anirudh Devgan assumed the role of president & CEO, and Lip-Bu Tan became executive chairman. Devgan joined Cadence in 2012 and was appointed president in 2017.

Products

The company develops software, hardware and intellectual property (IP) used to design chips, systems and printed circuit boards. Cadence also supplies IP covering interfaces, memory, analog, SoC peripherals, and data plane processing units, and develops chip verification technologies including simulators and formal verification tools.

Custom IC technologies
Virtuoso Platform. Tools for designing full-custom integrated circuits; includes schematic entry, behavioral modeling (Verilog-AMS), circuit simulation, custom layout, physical verification, extraction, and back-annotation. Used mainly for analog, mixed-signal, RF, and standard-cell designs, but also memory and FPGA designs.
Spectre X. In June 2019, Cadence introduced Spectre X parallel circuit simulator, so that users could distribute time- and frequency-domain simulations across hundreds of CPUs for faster runtime and speed.
AWR is a radio frequency to millimeter wave design environment for designing 5G/wireless products. Used for communications, aerospace and defense, semiconductor, computer, and consumer electronics.

Digital implementation and signoff technologies
Genus, Innovus, Tempus & Voltus.  In March 2020, Cadence announced that its Innovus place and route engine and optimizer were now integrated into Genus Synthesis, with both tools using a common user interface and database.
Stratus High-level synthesis tool that creates RTL implementations from C, C++, or SystemC code.
Cerebrus. In July 2021, Cadence announced its machine learning-based Cerebrus chip explorer product to automatically optimize the Cadence digital design flow for specified power, performance, and area goals across multiple blocks. Cerebrus utilizes a reinforcement learning approach to increase efficiency each time the optimization process is repeated.

Other Cadence RTL to GDS II tools: Conformal Equivalence Checker, Stratus High-Level Synthesis, Joules Power Analysis, Quantus RC Extraction, Modus AutomaticTest Pattern Generation.

Verification technologies
Xcelium. Xcelium is a parallel simulator, introduced in 2017, based on a multi-core parallel computing architecture.
JasperGold. JasperGold is a formal verification tool, initially introduced in 2003.  In 2019, Cadence announced new machine learning technology to automate JasperGold solver selection and parameterization to achieve faster first-time proofs; additionally to optimize regression runs.
Perspec System Verifier. Perspec was announced in 2014, for defining and verifying system-level verification scenarios, and then creating test cases to verify the scenarios using constraint-solving technology.  In mid-2018, Cadence announced that Perspec supported the new Accellera Portable Test and Stimulus Standard (PSS) standard.
.  is verification management tool for tracking verification process, including coverage, using emulation, simulation, and/or formal technology as the data source(s).
Palladium. In 2015, Cadence announced the Palladium Z1 Hardware emulation platform, with over 100 million gates per hour compile speed, and greater than 1 MHz execution for billion-gate designs.  Cadence's Palladium emulator was originally from Cadence's Quickturn acquisition in 1998. In 2021, Cadence announced Palladium Z2, claiming a 1.5X performance and 2X capacity improvement over the prior Palladium Z1, for more than 18 billion gate+ capacity. Additionally, Cadence claimed Palladium Z2 could compile 10 billion gates in under 10 hours.
Protium. The Protium FPGA prototyping platform was officially introduced in 2014.  In 2017, Cadence introduced the Protium S1 built on Xilinx Virtex UltraScale FPGAs. In 2019, Protium X1 rack-based prototyping was introduced, which Cadence claimed supported a 1.2 billion gate SoCs at around 5 MHz.  Palladium S1/X1 and Protium share a single compilation flow. In 2021, Protium X2 was announced; Cadence claimed a 1.5X performance and 2X capacity improvement over Protium X1, and that Protium X2 could compile 10 billion gates in under 24 hours.

Intellectual property
Chip design IP targeting areas including memory/storage/high-performance i