[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: Herbals: Their Origin and Evolution — Arber | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Herbals: Their Origin and Evolution — Arber — Overview

of casualties amongst the crew of the Kearsarge during the action: "U. S. S. S. KEARSARGE, "CHERBOURG, FRANCE, "_Afternoon, June 19, 1864_. "Sir--I report the following casualties resulting from the engagement this morning with the steamer 'Alabama.' JOHN W. DEMPSEY, Quarter-gunner. Compound comminuted fracture of right arm, lower third, and fore-arm. Arm amputated. WILLIAM GOWEN, Ordinary seaman. Compound fracture of left thigh and leg. Seriously wounded. JAMES MCBEATH, Ordinary seaman. Compound fracture of left leg. Severely wounded. I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,

    JOHN M. BROWNE,
    Surgeon U. S. Navy. "Captain JOHN A. WINSLOW,
    "Comd'g U. S. S. S. Kearsarge, Cherbourg."

All these men were wounded by the same shot, a 68-pounder, which passed
through the starboard bulwarks below main-rigging, narrowly escaping the
after 11-inch pivot-gun. The fuses employed by the Alabama were
villainously bad, several shells having lodged in the Kearsarge without
taking effect. Had the 7-inch rifle shot exploded which entered the vessel
at the starboard quarter, raising the deck by its concussion several
inches and lodging in the rudder-post, the action might have lasted some
time longer. It would not, however, have altered the result, for the
casualty occurred towards the close of the conflict. During my visit, I
witnessed the operation of cutting out a 32-pounder shell (time fuse) from
the rail close forward of the fore pivot 11-inch port; the officer in
charge of the piece informed me that the concussion actually raised the
gun and carriage, and, had it exploded, many of the crew would have been
injured by the fragments and splinters. Among the incidents of the fight, some of our papers relate that a 11-inch
shell from the Kearsarge fell upon the deck of the Alabama, and was
immediately taken up and thrown overboard. Probably no fight ever occurred
in modern times in which somebody didn't pick up a live shell and throw it
out of harm's way; but we may be permitted to doubt in this case--5-second
fuses take effect somewhat rapidly; the shot weighs considerably more than
a hundred-weight, and is uncomfortably difficult to lay hold of. Worse
than all for the probabilities of the story, fifteen pounds of
powder--never more nor less--were used to every shot fired from the
11-inch pivots, the Kearsarge only opening fire from them when within
eight hundred yards of the Alabama. With 15 pounds of powder and fifteen
degrees of elevation, I have myself seen these 11-inch Dahlgrens throw
three and a half miles; and yet we are asked to credit that, with the same
charge at less than half a mile, one of the shells _fell_ upon the deck of
the privateer. There are eleven marines in the crew of the Kearsarge:
probably the story was made for them. THE REPORTED FIRING UPON THE ALABAMA AFTER HER SURRENDER. Captain Semmes makes the following statement in his official report:

"Although we were now but 400 yards from each other, the enemy fired upon
me five times after my colours had been struck. It is charitable to
suppose that a ship of war of a Christian nation could not have done this
intentionally."

A very nice appeal after the massacre of Fort Pillow, especially when
coming from a man who has spent the previous two years of his life in
destroying unresisting merchantmen. The Captain of the Kearsarge was never aware of the Alabama having struck
until a boat put off from her to his own vessel. Prisoners subsequently
stated that she had fired a lee-gun, but the fact was not known on board
the Federal ship, nor that the colours were hauled down in token of
surrender. A single fact will prove the humanity with which Captain
Winslow conducted the fight. At the close of the action, his deck was
found to be literally covered with grape and canister, ready for close
quarters; but he had never used a single charge of all this during the
contest, although within capital range for employing it. THE FEELING AFTER THE BATTLE. The wounded of the two vessels were transferred shortly after the action
to the Naval Hospital at Cherbourg. I paid a visit to that establishment
on the Sunday following the engagement, and found the sufferers lying in
comfortable beds alongside each other in a long and admirably ventilated
ward on the first floor. Poor Gowen, who died the following Tuesday, was
in great pain, and already had the seal of death upon his face. James
McBeath, a young fellow of apparently twenty years, with a compound
fracture of the leg, chatted with much animation; while Dempsey, the stump
of his right arm laid on the pillow, was comfortably smoking a cigar, and
laughing and talking with one of the Alabama crew, in the bed alongside
him. The wounded men of the sunken privateer were unmistakably English in
physiognomy, and I failed to discover any who were not countrymen of ours. I conversed with all of them, stating at the outset that I was an
Englishman like themselves, and the information seemed to open their
hearts to me.