[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: laser tissue interaction ablation photothermal | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: laser tissue interaction ablation photothermal]

32. Mol Pharm. 2019 May 6;16(5):1982-1998. doi:
10.1021/acs.molpharmaceut.8b01335.  Epub 2019 Apr 3.

Multifunctional Nanosystem Based on Graphene Oxide for Synergistic Multistage 
Tumor-Targeting and Combined Chemo-Photothermal Therapy.

Zhang H, Li Y(1)(2), Pan Z, Chen Y, Fan Z, Tian H, Zhou S(3), Zhang Y, Shang J, 
Jiang B, Wang F, Luo F, Hou Z.

Author information:
(1)CAS Key Laboratory of Design and Assembly of Functional Nanostructures, and 
Fujian Provincial Key Laboratory of Nanomaterials, Fujian Institute of Research 
on the Structure of Matter , Chinese Academy of Sciences , Fuzhou 350002 , 
China.
(2)Department of Translational Medicine, Xiamen Institute of Rare Earth 
Materials , Chinese Academy of Sciences , Xiamen 361024 , P. R. China.
(3)Department of General Surgery , The Affiliated Southeast Hospital of Xiamen 
University , Zhangzhou 363000 , China.

Locating nanomedicines at the active sites plays a pivotal role in the 
nanoparticle-based cancer therapy field. Herein, a multifunctional 
nanotherapeutic is designed by using graphene oxide (GO) nanosheets with rich 
carboxyl groups as the supporter for hyaluronic acid (HA)-methotrexate (MTX) 
prodrug modification via an adipicdihydrazide cross-linker, achieving 
synergistic multistage tumor-targeting and combined chemo-photothermal therapy. 
As a tumor-targeting biomaterial, HA can increase affinity of the nanocarrier 
toward CD44 receptor for enhanced cellular uptake. MTX, a chemotherapeutic 
agent, can also serve as a tumor-targeting enhancer toward folate receptor based 
on its similar structure with folic acid. The prepared nanosystems possess a 
sheet shape with a dynamic size of approximately 200 nm and pH-responsive drug 
release. Unexpectedly, the physiological stability of HA-MTX prodrug-decorated 
GO nanosystems in PBS, serum, and even plasma is more excellent than that of 
HA-decorated GO nanosystems, while both of them exhibit an enhanced photothermal 
effect than GO nanosheets. More importantly, because of good blood compatibility 
as well as reduced undesired interactions with blood components, HA-MTX 
prodrug-decorated GO nanosystems exhibited remarkably superior accumulation at 
the tumor sites by passive and active targeting mechanisms, achieving highly 
effective synergistic chemo-photothermal therapeutic effect upon near-infrared 
laser irradiation, efficient ablation of tumors, and negligible systemic 
toxicity. Hence, the HA-MTX prodrug-decorated hybrid nanosystems have a 
promising potential for synergistic multistage tumor-targeting therapy.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.molpharmaceut.8b01335
PMID: 30892898 [Indexed for MEDLINE]