[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: Carlyle House | Type: Instruction-QA | Level: Graduate]

Question: Provide a comprehensive expert-level explanation of Carlyle House in the context of Applied Sciences.

Answer:
Carlyle House is a historic mansion in Alexandria, Virginia, United States, built by Scottish merchant John Carlyle from 1751 to 1752 in the Georgian style.

It is situated in the city's Old Town at 121 North Fairfax Street between Cameron and King Street. To the west, the Gadsby's Tavern is found one block away and Christ Church is three blocks away. To the south, the Stabler-Leadbeater Apothecary Shop is located three blocks away. To the east, Torpedo Factory Art Center and the Alexandria Archaeology Museum are located two blocks away.

The house, which is architecturally unique as the only stone 18th-century Palladian Revival-style residence in Alexandria, was added to the National Register of Historic Places in 1969 and was restored in 1976.

Construction

Carlyle began the construction of his house in 1751, using indentured and slave labor. Carlyle house has two sets of stairs: The main stairs (wider) are located in the center of the house, they communicate the first floor with the second floor. The servant stairs (narrow) are located in the right side of the house and connect tfromhe ground floor with the first and second floors.

The house has two chimneys made iofstone, they are the lungs of the house. The heat was obtained from the burning of charcoal and wood in the fireplaces; the heat ascended from the ground fireplaces to the fireplaces in the first and second floor, releasing the smoke to the exterior of the house and exchanging it with fresh air in the top of the chimney.

The doors were 6 foot 2 inches itokeep more heat during winter time when the door were open. The nails used to construct the house were handmade by a blacksmith.

The house had space for entertaining, private, family, and servant use. The house has 3 closets, two in the main chamber, possibly to keep dishes locked up, and were used by servants after asking the lady of the house the menu for the day and the correct dishes to use for serving. A third closet is located in the music room. John Carlyle also built several outbuildings for both household and business needs.

Carlyle or someone associated with the house's construction is believed to have sealed the body of a cat within the house's foundation for good luck, a custom that was prevalent in the British Isles and northern Europe.

Style
The home was built in stone in a mid-Georgian style, therefore has the following characteristics:

It is symmetrical and balanced with halls in the center of each story, while the left and right side are copies of the other one from top to bottom; The right and the left side has two windows, and two chimneys, one on each side of the house.

It has simple and bold details around the building and doors.

The front door has an arched shape with bold molding and a bold keystone.

It has quoins at the corner of the building.

The house has a hipped roof, specifically a bonnet roof, also called reversed gambrel.

Stories

The house is composed of a ground floor and two main floors. The halls are located in first and second floor, at the center of the house.

Ground floor

The kitchen, the servant stairs, and the cellars are located on the right side of the ground floor or basement. The spinning room is located on the left side of the ground floor.  It has a back door that connects to the gardens.

First story
The first floor contains dates addedhe main or front door that separates the yard from the main hall, which is located in the center of the house. The main stairs are located at the back area of the hall, which also has a back door that communicates with the magnolia terrace, the back yard and the garden of the house. The left side of the floor is the more public side of the floor, in which the music room and the dining room are located. The right side of the floor (when seen from the front of the house) is the more private side of the house, in it is located the main chamber (John Carlyle's bedroom), and in front of it, John Carlyle's studio and the servants' stairs.

The visitors that came through the front door were received by a servant (Moses) at the main hall. During celebrations the hall was used as a dance hall, currently, it displays a copy of the Fry-Jefferson map, painted by Peter Jefferson (Thomas Jefferson's father) and Joshua Fry on its wall.

The music room is located beside the main entrance, in this room Sarah Carlyle Fairfax (Sally) practiced the spinet songs that she and her mother learned when they received music lessons at Mount Vernon (George Washington's house and plantation).  The portrait of John's brother, George Carlyle, is located in this room. The color of the wallpaper is green. It has a fireplace.

The dining room is located next to the music room. It is preserved in its original form and looks as it would have appeared in the 1750s, as there were not many modifications in this area. The color of the wallpaper is blue, the details of the wood were handmade and the color of the walls and room were used to welcome and impress their guests. It also has a fireplace to warm up the room in winter. The portrait of William Carlyle (John Carlyle's father) is located in this room.

The main chamber was located on the right side of the house, beside the main door. It belonged at the time to John Carlyle and his wife Sarah Fairfax. The two windows in the bedroom faced the front of the street. It has a portrait of his mother, Rachel Murray Carlyle (painted when she was in her twenties), which was located in front of their bed and above the fireplace. A replica of Sarah Carlyle's wedding dress is exhibited in the room, a close-bodied gown with a petticoat (it used a mechanism to fold it when passing through narrow doors). The wooden floor in front of the fireplace of the bedroom has visible burn marks resulting from the explosions of the air trapped in the charcoal and wood resins: at the time the fire screen had not yet been invented. It is possible that the two lockers in the bedroom were used to loc