[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: crystal structure protein drug target binding | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: crystal structure protein drug target binding]

42. Antiviral Res. 2019 Jul;167:89-97. doi: 10.1016/j.antiviral.2019.04.001. Epub
 2019 Apr 3.

New antiviral approaches for human parainfluenza: Inhibiting the 
haemagglutinin-neuraminidase.

Chibanga VP(1), Dirr L(2), Guillon P(3), El-Deeb IM(1), Bailly B(1), Thomson 
RJ(1), von Itzstein M(4).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Glycomics, Griffith University, Gold Coast Campus, Gold Coast, 
Queensland 4222, Australia.
(2)Institute for Glycomics, Griffith University, Gold Coast Campus, Gold Coast, 
Queensland 4222, Australia. Electronic address: l.dirr@griffith.edu.au.
(3)Institute for Glycomics, Griffith University, Gold Coast Campus, Gold Coast, 
Queensland 4222, Australia. Electronic address: p.guillon@griffith.edu.au.
(4)Institute for Glycomics, Griffith University, Gold Coast Campus, Gold Coast, 
Queensland 4222, Australia. Electronic address: m.vonitzstein@griffith.edu.au.

Human parainfluenza viruses cause acute respiratory tract infections and disease 
predominantly in young children and immunocompromised individuals. Currently, 
there are no vaccines to prevent hPIV infections, nor licensed anti-hPIV drugs. 
There is therefore a need for specific antiviral therapies to decrease the 
morbidity and mortality associated with hPIV diseases. 
Haemagglutinin-neuraminidase (HN) is one of two hPIV surface proteins with 
critical roles in host receptor recognition, binding and cleavage; it has been 
explored as a key drug development target for the past few decades with variable 
success. Recent advancements in computational modelling and the availability of 
the X-ray crystal structure of hPIV3 HN have improved our understanding of the 
structural and mechanistic features of HN. This review explores structural 
features of the HN protein that are being exploited for structure-guided 
inhibitor design. We describe past and present hPIV HN inhibition strategies 
based on sialic acid scaffolds, together with other novel approaches that 
decrease hPIV infectivity. Although many HN inhibitors have been developed and 
evaluated as anti-hPIV agents, currently only a host-directed therapy (DAS181) 
has succeeded in phase II clinical drug trials. Hence, the review concludes with 
future considerations for targeting the specific function(s) of hPIV HN and 
suggestions for antiviral drug design.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.antiviral.2019.04.001
PMID: 30951732 [Indexed for MEDLINE]