[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: nanoparticle drug delivery tumor targeting cancer | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: nanoparticle drug delivery tumor targeting cancer]

44. Mater Sci Eng C Mater Biol Appl. 2021 Apr;123:112027. doi: 
10.1016/j.msec.2021.112027. Epub 2021 Mar 10.

Efficient, enzyme responsive and tumor receptor targeting gelatin nanoparticles 
decorated with concanavalin-A for site-specific and controlled drug delivery for 
cancer therapy.

Vaghasiya K(1), Ray E(1), Singh R(2), Jadhav K(2), Sharma A(2), Khan R(2), 
Katare OP(3), Verma RK(4).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Nano Science and Technology (INST), Phase X, Sector 64, Mohali, 
Punjab 160062, India; University Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Panjab 
University, Chandigarh 160014, India.
(2)Institute of Nano Science and Technology (INST), Phase X, Sector 64, Mohali, 
Punjab 160062, India.
(3)University Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Panjab University, 
Chandigarh 160014, India. Electronic address: katare@pu.ac.in.
(4)Institute of Nano Science and Technology (INST), Phase X, Sector 64, Mohali, 
Punjab 160062, India. Electronic address: rahulverma@inst.ac.in.

The tumor targeting and stimuli responsiveness behavior of intelligent drug 
delivery systems imparts effective therapeutic delivery and decreases the 
toxicity of conventional chemotherapeutic agents in off-target organs. To 
achieve the receptor targeting and smart drug release, several strategies have 
been employed to engineer nano-carrier with stimulus sensitivity. In this work, 
mannose receptor-targeted and matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) responsive gelatin 
nanoparticles were developed and assessed for its receptor targeting and 
"on-demand" controlled drug delivery in lung cancer therapeutics. MMPs are 
protease enzymes and over-expressed in tumorous tissues in all the stages of 
cancer. The cancer cells also have over-expressed mannose receptors on the cell 
surface. The surface decoration of gelatin nanoparticles with concanavalin A 
(con-A) tends to bind with mannose moiety of cell surface glycoproteins which 
enhances the cancer cell-specific higher uptake of nanoparticles. Gelatin 
nanoparticles have attracted significant attraction in recent years as a 
potential drug carrier because of its good biocompatibility and versatile 
physicochemical properties desirable to deliver the drug. Cisplatin was 
complexed with the gelatin matrix (CG-NP) to evaluate stimuli responsiveness 
with the lung cancer cells and its release pattern. In this smart inhalable 
delivery system, cisplatin loaded gelatin nanoparticles were surface decorated 
with con-A (CCG-NP). In tumorous cells, con-A coating is expected to enhance 
mannose receptor-specific cellular internalization of CCG-NP, and subsequently 
high level of MMP in tumor tissues would help to release cisplatin in response 
and ensures controlled drug release. The synthesized CCG-NP has shown enzyme 
triggered drug release and favorable endocytosis after incubation of 12 h 
compare to uncoated nanoparticles. The efficacy of CCG-NP significantly 
increased in presence of MMP-2 enzyme in lung cancer cell line A549 cells. It 
also significantly enhanced reactive oxygen species generation, cell cycle 
arrest in S and G2/M phase, and apoptosis in cancer cells. Therefore, inhalable 
CCG-NP promises a pragmatic approach to construct a receptor targeting and an 
"on-demand" drug delivery system to efficiently deliver the drug at the tumor 
site only.

Copyright © 2021. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.msec.2021.112027
PMID: 33812642 [Indexed for MEDLINE]