[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: In-vivo optical imaging in head and neck oncology: basic pri | Type: Peer-Reviewed | Level: Expert]

[Semantic Scholar | Fields: Medicine | Year: 2018 | Citations: 74]

Title: In-vivo optical imaging in head and neck oncology: basic principles, clinical applications and future directions

Abstract:
Head and neck cancers become a severe threat to human’s health nowadays and represent the sixth most common cancer worldwide. Surgery remains the first-line choice for head and neck cancer patients. Limited resectable tissue mass and complicated anatomy structures in the head and neck region put the surgeons in a dilemma between the extensive resection and a better quality of life for the patients. Early diagnosis and treatment of the pre-malignancies, as well as real-time in vivo detection of surgical margins during en bloc resection, could be leveraged to minimize the resection of normal tissues. With the understanding of the head and neck oncology, recent advances in optical hardware and reagents have provided unique opportunities for real-time pre-malignancies and cancer imaging in the clinic or operating room. Optical imaging in the head and neck has been reported using autofluorescence imaging, targeted fluorescence imaging, high-resolution microendoscopy, narrow band imaging and the Raman spectroscopy. In this study, we reviewed the basic theories and clinical applications of optical imaging for the diagnosis and treatment in the field of head and neck oncology with the goal of identifying limitations and facilitating future advancements in the field.Medical imaging: Finding the edgeNew imaging technologies hold promise for early detection and improved treatment of head and neck cancers, the sixth most common type of cancer worldwide. The first line of treatment is surgery, but complete tumor removal can be difficult when operating on this sensitive region. Improving methods for early detection and clear visualization of tumor edges could help minimize loss of healthy tissue. Eben Rosenthal at Stanford University in California and Yi Li at the West China School of Stomatology in Chengdu City reviewed new technologies, many of which use fluorescence to identify tumor tissue. Some techniques even allow real-time visualization of tumor edges in the operating theatre. The researchers discuss the applications and limitations of these new technologies and highlight promising future directions, including increasing the commercial availability and decreasing the size of the instruments.