[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS neurology | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS neurology]

32. Epilepsy Res. 2023 Aug;194:107183. doi: 10.1016/j.eplepsyres.2023.107183.
Epub  2023 Jun 17.

Tolerability of transcranial magnetic stimulation language mapping in children.

Greiner HM(1), Maue E(2), Horn PS(2), Vannest J(3), Vedala K(3), Leach JL(3), 
Tenney JR(2), Williamson B(4), Fujiwara H(2), Coghill RC(5), Mangano FT(6), 
Kadis DS(7).

Author information:
(1)Division of Neurology, Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center; 
Univeristy of Cincinnati, Department of Pediatrics, University of Cincinnati 
College of Medicine, Cincinnati, OH, USA. Electronic address: 
hansel.greiner@cchmc.org.
(2)Division of Neurology, Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center; 
Univeristy of Cincinnati, Department of Pediatrics, University of Cincinnati 
College of Medicine, Cincinnati, OH, USA.
(3)Univeristy of Cincinnati, Department of Pediatrics, University of Cincinnati 
College of Medicine, Cincinnati, OH, USA.
(4)Univeristy of Cincinnati, Department of Pediatrics, University of Cincinnati 
College of Medicine, Cincinnati, OH, USA; Department of Physiology, Faculty of 
Medicine, University of Toronto, Canada.
(5)Univeristy of Cincinnati, Department of Pediatrics, University of Cincinnati 
College of Medicine, Cincinnati, OH, USA; Division of Behavioral Medicine and 
Clinical Psychology, Cincinnati Childrens Hospital Medical Center, USA; Center 
for Understanding Pediatric Pain, Cincinnati Childrens Hospital Medical Center, 
USA.
(6)Univeristy of Cincinnati, Department of Pediatrics, University of Cincinnati 
College of Medicine, Cincinnati, OH, USA; Division of Neurosurgery, Cincinnati 
Children's Hospital Medical Center, USA.
(7)Neurosciences and Mental Health, Research Institute, Hospital for Sick 
Children, Toronto, Canada; Department of Physiology, Faculty of Medicine, 
University of Toronto, Canada.

OBJECTIVE: Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation (TMS) has emerged as a viable 
non-invasive method for mapping language networks. Little is known about the 
tolerability of transcranial magnetic stimulation language mapping in children.
METHODS: Children aged 5-18 years underwent bilateral language mapping using 
repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) to target 33 
sites/hemisphere. Stimulation was delivered at 5 Hz, in 1-2 second bursts, 
during visual naming and auditory verb generation. Pain unpleasantness and pain 
intensity were assessed using an unpleasantness visual analog scale (VAS).
RESULTS: 49 participants tolerated motor mapping and had repetitive transcranial 
magnetic stimulation. 35/49 (71%) completed visual naming and 26/49 (53%) 
completed both visual naming and verb generation. Mean electrical field per 
participant was 115 V/m. Young age and lower language ability were associated 
with lower completion. Visual analogue scale scores were significantly higher 
(6.1 vs. 2.8) in participants who withdrew early compared to those who completed 
at least visual naming.
CONCLUSIONS: Pain measured by VAS was a major contributor to early withdrawal. 
However, a complete bilateral map was obtained with one paradigm in 71% of 
participants. Future studies designed to reduce pain during repetitive 
transcranial magnetic stimulation over language cortex will boost viability.
SIGNIFICANCE: This study represents the first attempt to characterize 
tolerability of bilateral repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation language 
mapping in healthy children.

Copyright © 2023 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.eplepsyres.2023.107183
PMCID: PMC10527515
PMID: 37352728 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest None of the 
authors have any conflicts of interest to disclose.