[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: herbal medicine drug interaction pharmacokinetics | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: herbal medicine drug interaction pharmacokinetics]

46. Phytomedicine. 2020 Oct;77:153287. doi: 10.1016/j.phymed.2020.153287. Epub
2020  Jul 21.

Herb-drug interaction between Styrax and warfarin: Molecular basis and 
mechanism.

Zhang F(1), Huang J(2), He RJ(1), Wang L(1), Huo PC(1), Guan XQ(1), Fang SQ(3), 
Xiang YW(4), Jia SN(5), Ge GB(6).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Interdisciplinary Integrative Medicine Research, Shanghai 
University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Shanghai, China.
(2)Institute of Interdisciplinary Integrative Medicine Research, Shanghai 
University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Shanghai, China; Pharmacology and 
Toxicology Division, Shanghai Institute of Food and Drug Control, Shanghai, 
China.
(3)Yueyang Hospital of Integrated Traditional Chinese and Western Medicine, 
Shanghai University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Shanghai, 200473, China.
(4)School of Rehabilitation Science, Shanghai University of Traditional Chinese 
Medicine, Shanghai, China.
(5)Qinghai Hospital of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Xining, China.
(6)Institute of Interdisciplinary Integrative Medicine Research, Shanghai 
University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Shanghai, China; Yueyang Hospital of 
Integrated Traditional Chinese and Western Medicine, Shanghai University of 
Traditional Chinese Medicine, Shanghai, 200473, China. Electronic address: 
geguangbo@dicp.ac.cn.

BACKGROUND: Styrax, one of the most famous folk medicines, has been frequently 
used for the treatment of cardiovascular diseases and skin problems in Asia and 
Africa. It is unclear whether Styrax or Styrax-related herbal medicines may 
trigger clinically relevant herb-drug interactions.
PURPOSE: This study was carried out to investigate the inhibitory effects of 
Styrax on human cytochrome P450 enzymes (CYPs) and to clarify whether this herb 
may modulate the pharmacokinetic behavior of the CYP-substrate drug warfarin 
when co-administered.
STUDY DESIGN: The inhibitory effects of Styrax on CYPs were assayed in human 
liver microsomes (HLM), while the pharmacokinetic interactions between Styrax 
and warfarin were investigated in rats. The bioactive constituents in Styrax 
with strong CYP3A inhibitory activity were identified and their inhibitory 
mechanisms were carefully investigated.
METHODS: The inhibitory effects of Styrax on human CYPs were assayed in vitro, 
while the pharmacokinetic interactions between Styrax and warfarin were studied 
in rats. Fingerprinting analysis of Styrax coupled with LC-TOF-MS/MS profiling 
and CYP inhibition assays were used to identify the constituents with strong 
CYP3A inhibitory activity. The inhibitory mechanism of oleanonic acid (the most 
potent CYP3A inhibitor occurring in Styrax) against CYP3A4 was investigated by a 
panel of inhibition kinetics analyses and in silico analysis.
RESULTS: In vitro assays demonstrated that Styrax extract strongly inhibited 
human CYP3A and moderately inhibited six other tested human CYPs, as well as 
potently inhibited warfarin 10-hydroxylation in liver microsomes from both 
humans and rats. In vivo assays demonstrated that compared with warfarin given 
individually in rats, Styrax (100 mg/kg) significantly prolonged the plasma 
half-life of warfarin by 2.3-fold and increased the AUC(0-inf) of warfarin by 
2.7-fold when this herb was co-administrated with warfarin (2 mg/kg) in rats. 
Two LC fractions were found with strong CYP3A inhibitory activity and the major 
constituents in these fractions were characterized by LC-TOF-MS/MS. Five 
pentacyclic triterpenoid acids (including epibetulinic acid, betulinic acid, 
betulonic acid, oleanonic acid and maslinic acid) present in Styrax were potent 
CYP3A inhibitors, and oleanonic acid was a competitive inhibitor against 
CYP3A-mediated testosterone 6β-hydroxylation.
CONCLUSION: Styrax and the pentacyclic triterpenoid acids occurring in this herb 
strongly modulate the pharmacokinetic behavior of warfarin via inhibition of 
CYP3A.

Copyright © 2020. Published by Elsevier GmbH.

DOI: 10.1016/j.phymed.2020.153287
PMID: 32739573 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare no conflict of interest.