[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: Rusnano | Type: Instruction-QA | Level: Graduate]

Question: Provide a comprehensive expert-level explanation of Rusnano in the context of Applied Sciences.

Answer:
Rusnano Group () is a Russian state-established and funded company. The Rusnano Group's mission is to create competitive nanotechnology-based industry in Russia. Rusnano invests directly and through indirect funds into all major knowledge-based areas where nanotechnology is widely implemented: electronics, optics, telecom, classic and renewable energy, healthcare and biotechnology, materials and metallurgy, engineering and chemistry.

In 2020 the government of Russia has merged it with VEB.RF. As of 2017 100 % shares of Rusnano were owned by the Russian government.

In 2015 Rusnano had 16 investment projects. It invested into about 97 plants and R&D companies in 37 regions of Russia. In 2016 many such enterprises were either dissolved, bankrupted or repurposed (see. below). In 2016 the company was on the verge of bankruptcy significantly devaluating below the equity levels but managed to recover.

In November 2021 trade of company's securities trade was suspended on Moscow Stock Exchange. The same year the company declared net loss of 120 billions rubles, 20 of which were settled, with the rest making into the mid of 2021. 

In June 2022 the company led by newly appointed  () was again on the verge of insolvency.

In October 2022, the media learned that the government was considering liquidating Rusnano. The company's position worsened after the introduction of international sanctions against Russia. Significant assets are supposed to be transferred to other state corporations. Finance Minister Anton Siluanov addressed President Vladimir Putin with a proposal to disband Rusnano.

In September 2023, Vladimir Putin said that there was a “big financial hole” in Rusnano. A month later, the corporation announced its inability to pay its obligations and the possibility of bankruptcy. At this point, the government had not yet decided whether to save Rusnano.

History
In April 2007 the Russian President Vladimir Putin has announced an Initiative termed «Strategy for Development of Nanotechnology Industry» in which he outlined the goals of new Russian policy.

The Group was founded in 2011 by reorganizing Russian Corporation of Nanotechnology, and currently comprises RUSNANO JSC, RUSNANO Management Company LLC and a non-profit Fund for Infrastructure and Educational Programs (FIEP).
 RUSNANO JSC is a holder of Group's assets and is governed by the Board of Directors appointed by Russian Government. 
 RUSNANO Management Company that was created in 2013, is managing all JSC RUSNANO's assets, leading business development and investment activities. RUSNANO Management Company is governed by the Executive Board and Board of Directors. 
 Fund for Infrastructure and Educational Programs (FIEP) was founded in 2013 as a non-profit organization managing various projects targeting creation of innovative nanotechnology-related ecosystem in Russia. All non-profit activities aimed at development of innovative Nano-industry ecosystem were segregated from business units to develop governance and structure of the Group.

These separate legal entities work together on increasing competitiveness and effectiveness of Russian companies in nanotechnology-related industrial fields.

RUSNANO Management Company

RUSNANO Management Company is a leading Russian private equity investor in technology-enabled businesses. RUSNANO Management Company is a spin-off of the largest Russian sovereign high-tech fund RUSNANO JSC, a part of the RUSNANO GROUP, and was created in 2013 to separate ownership and management of RUSNANO JSC assets.

Assets Under Management (AUM)

RUSNANO Management Company started in 2013 with combined value of assets under management at ~$3 billion and 107 tech portfolio companies, operating in Russia, US, Western Europe, and Israel. Currently RUSNANO Management Company AUM exceed $4 billion, as of December 31, 2018.

Private Equity and Venture Capital Funds

The company manages 8 Growth Capital and Venture Capital Funds and raised over $1,5 billion from Russian and international private and governmental investors with leverage ratio 1:3 from RUSNANO JSC to third-party investors, respectively. These funds are highly diversified by stage, sector, and geography diversifying risks and potentially creating additional value for investors.

Investment Strategy

RUSNANO Management Company invests in projects with high potential in the real economy sector in Russia and abroad with subsequent expansion to Russia (technology transfer to Russia/creation of manufacturing site and/or R&D center) or Russian technology transfer to foreign companies.
Basing on significant investment experience and advanced technical expertise RUSNANO Management Company acquires equity in innovative ventures and growth-oriented companies with scalable business models and significant growth potential.

The following hi-tech fields are of primary interest to RUSNANO Management Company:
 New Materials (Nanomaterials)
 Nanoelectronics and Photonics
 Biotechnology and Pharmaceuticals
 Coatings and Surface Modification
 Renewable Energy and Energy Efficiency
 Nuclear Medicine and Medical Devices/Instrumentation

Notable Portfolio Companies

New Materials:
 OCSiAl is the first Russian Unicorn, listed with a $1 billion valuation. The company's core product is TUBALL, high-purity graphene nanotubes that can be used as a universal additive for a wide range of materials. 
 Monocrystal PLC is the leader in the world market of synthetic sapphires used in light emitting diodes, smartphones, tablet PCs and smart watches, for glasses of cameras, sensors of fingerprints as well as displays.

Renewable Energy:
 RUSNANO, together with the Finnish public power company Fortum on a matching funds basis, created the Wind Energy Development Fund (WEDF), with a legal status of an investment partnership, and capital of $520 million. Ninety percent of Fund's investments are aimed at construction of wind parks in Russia and in projects for localizing production of wind