[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: ethnobotany traditional medicine biological activi | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: ethnobotany traditional medicine biological activity]

55. J Ethnopharmacol. 2023 Apr 6;305:116004. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2022.116004. Epub
 2022 Dec 16.

The African cherry: A review of the botany, traditional uses, phytochemistry, 
and biological activities of Prunus africana (Hook.f.) Kalkman.

Rubegeta E(1), Makolo F(1), Kamatou G(1), Enslin G(1), Chaudhary S(1), Sandasi 
M(2), Cunningham AB(3), Viljoen A(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Tshwane University of Technology, 
Private Bag X680, Pretoria, 0001, South Africa.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Tshwane University of Technology, 
Private Bag X680, Pretoria, 0001, South Africa; SAMRC Herbal Drugs Unit, Faculty 
of Science, Tshwane University of Technology, Private Bag X680, Pretoria, 0001, 
South Africa.
(3)School of Life Sciences, University of KwaZulu-Natal, Private Bag X54001, 
Pietermaritzburg, 3200, South Africa.
(4)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Tshwane University of Technology, 
Private Bag X680, Pretoria, 0001, South Africa; SAMRC Herbal Drugs Unit, Faculty 
of Science, Tshwane University of Technology, Private Bag X680, Pretoria, 0001, 
South Africa. Electronic address: viljoenam@tut.ac.za.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Prunus africana (Hook.f.) Kalkman (Rosaceae), 
commonly known as "Pygeum" or "African cherry", occurs in mainland montane 
forests scattered across sub-Saharan Africa, Madagascar, and some surrounding 
islands. Traditionally, decoctions of the stem-bark are taken orally for the 
treatment of a wide variety of conditions, such as benign prostatic hyperplasia 
(BPH), stomach ache, chest pain, malaria, heart conditions, and gonorrhoea, as 
well as urinary and kidney diseases. The timber is used to make axe handles and 
for other household needs. The dense wood is also sawn for timber.
AIM: The fragmented information available on the ethnobotany, phytochemistry, 
and biological activities of the medicinally important P. africana was collated, 
organised, and analysed in this review, to highlight knowledge voids that can be 
addressed through future research.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A bibliometric analysis of research output on P. africana 
was conducted on literature retrieved, using the Scopus® database. The trend in 
the publications over time was assessed and a network analysis of collaborations 
between countries and authors was carried out. Furthermore, a detailed review of 
the literature over the period 1971 to 2021, acquired through Scopus, 
ScienceDirect, SciFinder, Pubmed, Scirp, DOAJ and Google Scholar, was conducted. 
All relevant abstracts, full-text articles and various book chapters on the 
botanical and ethnopharmacological aspects of P. africana, written in English 
and German, were consulted.
RESULTS: A total of 455 documents published from 1971 to 2021, were retrieved 
using the Scopus search. Analysis of the data showed that the majority of these 
documents were original research articles, followed by reviews and lastly a 
miscellaneous group comprising conference papers, book chapters, short surveys, 
editorials and letters. Data were analysed for annual output and areas of 
intense research focus, and countries with high research output, productive 
institutions and authors, and collaborative networks were identified. Prunus 
africana is reported to exhibit anti-inflammatory, analgesic, antimicrobial, 
anti-oxidant, antiviral, antimutagenic, anti-asthmatic, anti-androgenic, 
antiproliferative and apoptotic activities amongst others. Phytosterols and 
other secondary metabolites such as phenols, triterpenes, fatty acids, and 
linear alcohols have been the focus of phytochemical investigations. The 
biological activity has largely been ascribed to the phytosterols (mainly 
3-β-sitosterol, 3-β-sitostenone, and 3-β-sitosterol-glucoside), which inhibit 
the production of prostaglandins in the prostate, thereby suppressing the 
inflammatory symptoms associated with BPH and chronic prostatitis.
CONCLUSIONS: Many of the ethnobotanical assertions for the biological activity 
of P. africana have been confirmed through in vitro and in vivo studies. 
However, a disparity exists between the biological activity of the whole extract 
and that of single compounds isolated from the extract, which were reported to 
be less effective. This finding suggests that a different approach to biological 
activity studies should be encouraged that takes all secondary metabolites 
present into consideration. A robust technique, such as multivariate 
biochemometric data analysis, which allows for a holistic intervention to study 
the biological activity of a species is suggested. Furthermore, there is a need 
to develop rapid and efficient quality control methods for both raw materials 
and products to replace the time-consuming and laborious methods currently in 
use.

Copyright © 2022 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2022.116004
PMID: 36535336 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The 
corresponding author (AM Viljoen) declares his role as Editor-in-Chief of the 
Journal of Ethnopharmacology. The review process was handled by an associate 
editor of the journal.