[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: Radio atmospheric signal | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Radio atmospheric signal — Overview

during the night, thunderstorm activity up to distances of about 10,000 km can be observed for signals arriving from the west during night time conditions. Otherwise, the transmission range is of the order of 5,000 km. For the regional range (< 1,000 km), the usual way is magnetic direction finding as well as time of arrival measurements of a sferic signal observed simultaneously at several stations. Presumption of such measurements is the concentration on one individual impulse. If one measures simultaneously several pulses, interference takes place with a beat frequency equal to the inversal average sequence time of the pulses. Atmospheric noise
The signal-to-noise ratio determines the sensibility and sensitivity of telecommunication systems (e.g., radio receivers). An analog signal must clearly exceed the noise amplitude in order to become detectable. Atmospheric noise is one of the most important sources for the limitation of the detection of radio signals. The steady electric discharging currents in a lightning channel cause a series of incoherent impulses in the whole frequency range, the amplitudes of which decreases approximately with the inverse frequency. In the ELF-range, technical noise from 50–60 Hz, natural noise from the magnetosphere, etc. dominates. In the VLF-range, there are the coherent impulses from R- and K-strokes, appearing out of the background noise. Beyond about 100 kHz, the noise amplitude becomes more and more incoherent. In addition, technical noise from electric motors, ignition systems of motor cars, etc., are superimposed. Finally, beyond the high frequency band (3–30 MHz) extraterrestrial noise (noise of galactic origin, solar noise) dominates. The atmospheric noise depends on frequency, location and time of day and year. Worldwide measurements of that noise are documented in CCIR-reports. See also
 1955 Great Plains tornado outbreak
 Cluster One, a Pink Floyd track using sferics and dawn chorus as an overture

Footnotes

References

External links
 http://www.srh.noaa.gov/oun/wxevents/19550525/stormelectricity.php
  Radio in Space and Time - Whistler, Sferics and Tweeks, G.Wiessala in RadioUser 1/2013, UK

Atmospheric electricity
Lightning
Electrical phenomena
Electromagnetism
Space plasmas
Severe weather and convection