[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: phytotherapy systematic review clinical evidence | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: phytotherapy systematic review clinical evidence]

78. Complement Ther Med. 2012 Jun;20(3):143-54. doi: 10.1016/j.ctim.2011.12.004. 
Epub 2012 Jan 4.

Clinical efficacy and safety of Chinese herbal medicine for Wilson's disease: a 
systematic review of 9 randomized controlled trials.

Wang Y(1), Xie CL, Fu DL, Lu L, Lin Y, Dong QQ, Wang XT, Zheng GQ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, The Second Affiliated Hospital of Wenzhou 
Medical College, Wenzhou, China.

Wilson's disease is an autosomal recessive disorder of copper metabolism. 
Despite being treatable, there is no universally accepted treatment regimen. 
Currently, various Chinese herbal medicines (CHMs) are widely used in the 
treatment of Wilson's disease in China, but there is a lack of reliable 
scientific evidence for the effectiveness of such therapies. The objective of 
this systematic review is to assess the clinical efficacy and safety of CHM as 
an alternative or/and adjuvant therapy for Wilson's disease. A systematic 
literature search in different medical databases was performed to identify 
randomized controlled trials comparing CHM as monotherapy or CHM as adjuvant 
therapy with western conventional medical therapy in the treatment of Wilson's 
disease. A total of 687 participants were included in nine eligible studies. The 
main findings are that CHM as monotherapy or adjuvant therapy for Wilson's 
disease may be able to improve the clinical symptoms, to promote the urinary 
copper excretion, to ameliorate liver function and/or liver cirrhosis, and has 
fewer adverse effects in comparison with western conventional medication. 
Furthermore, CHM generally appeared to be safe and well tolerated in patients 
with Wilson's disease. However, the evidence presented in this review are 
insufficient to warrant a clinical recommendation due to the generally low 
methodological quality of the included studies. In conclusion, CHM seems to be 
beneficial and safe for Wilson's disease, but high-quality evidences are still 
needed to further evaluate this therapy. Therefore, additional well-designed, 
randomized, placebo-controlled clinical trials are needed.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ctim.2011.12.004
PMID: 22500664 [Indexed for MEDLINE]