[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: magnetic resonance spectroscopy metabolite brain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: magnetic resonance spectroscopy metabolite brain]

47. Neuroimage. 2019 Nov 15;202:116075. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2019.116075.
Epub  2019 Aug 6.

Magnetic resonance spectroscopy extended by oscillating diffusion gradients: 
Cell-specific anomalous diffusion as a probe for tissue microstructure in human 
brain.

Döring A(1), Kreis R(2).

Author information:
(1)Depts. Radiology and Biomedical Research, University of Bern, Bern, 
Switzerland; Graduate School for Cellular and Biomedical Sciences, University of 
Bern, Bern, Switzerland.
(2)Depts. Radiology and Biomedical Research, University of Bern, Bern, 
Switzerland. Electronic address: roland.kreis@insel.ch.

PURPOSE: To demonstrate that oscillating gradient spin-echo sequences can be 
combined with diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance spectroscopy even on 
clinical MR systems to study human brain at short diffusion times to provide 
apparent diffusion coefficients (ADCs) sensitive to a narrower cellular length 
scale than pulsed gradient spin-echo sequences at long diffusion time.
METHODS: Measurements were performed on a 3T MR system using a semiLaser 
sequence with diffusion-weighting realized by oscillating and pulsed gradient 
modules, encoding diffusion times <10 ms and >50 ms, respectively. 
Metabolite-cycling was included to measure metabolites and water simultaneously. 
The sequence was tested in a phantom and in a parieto-occipital cerebral region 
of interest with mixed gray/white matter content of 6 subjects. The water 
reference was used for phase, frequency, and eddy-current correction as well as 
motion compensation. ADCs were estimated by 1D sequential and 2D simultaneous 
fitting.
RESULTS: Measurements in the phantom established that both sequences yield equal 
ADCs, independent of diffusion time, as expected for free diffusion. In 
contrast, averaged metabolite diffusion in vivo was found to be 1.9 times faster 
at short (8.3 ms) than at long (155 ms) diffusion times. The difference in ADC 
was found to be statistically significant for the creatines, cholines, 
N-acetylaspartate, myo-inositol, and glutamate. The water ADC was measured to be 
1.3 times larger at short than at long diffusion time.
CONCLUSION: It is demonstrated that application of oscillating gradients in 
diffusion-weighted MRS is feasible on clinical MR systems to establish the 
dependence of ADCs on diffusion times in humans. The initial results largely 
confirm earlier reports for mice' and rats' brain at short and long diffusion 
times. ADCs representing diffusion at short and ultra-short diffusion times are 
of interest to probe cellular or subcellular changes in disease. The presented 
methodology may thus open the door for investigation of pathophysiological 
changes in cell-specific microstructures in human cohorts.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2019.116075
PMID: 31398432 [Indexed for MEDLINE]