[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: cannabis cannabidiol therapeutic epilepsy pain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: cannabis cannabidiol therapeutic epilepsy pain]

3. Eur Arch Psychiatry Clin Neurosci. 2025 Mar;275(2):281-292. doi: 
10.1007/s00406-024-01880-2. Epub 2024 Sep 19.

Cannabis, cannabinoids and health: a review of evidence on risks and medical 
benefits.

Hoch E(1)(2)(3), Volkow ND(4), Friemel CM(5), Lorenzetti V(6), Freeman TP(7), 
Hall W(8)(9).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, LMU University Hospital, LMU 
Munich, Munich, Germany. Eva.Hoch@med.uni-muenchen.de.
(2)IFT Institut für Therapieforschung, Centre for Mental Health and Addiction 
Research, Munich, Germany. Eva.Hoch@med.uni-muenchen.de.
(3)Department Clinical Psychology and Psychotherapy, Charlotte Fresenius 
University, Munich, Germany. Eva.Hoch@med.uni-muenchen.de.
(4)National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism, Bethesda, Maryland, USA.
(5)IFT Institut für Therapieforschung, Centre for Mental Health and Addiction 
Research, Munich, Germany.
(6)Neuroscience of Addiction and Mental Health Program, School of Behavioural 
and Health Sciences, Faculty of Health Science, Australian Catholic University, 
Melbourne, Victoria, 3065, Australia.
(7)Addiction and Mental Health Group, Department of Psychology, University of 
Bath, Bath, UK.
(8)National Centre for Youth Substance Use Research, Faculty of Health and 
Behavioural Sciences, The University of Queensland, Brisbane, Queensland, 
Australia.
(9)Queensland Alliance for Environmental Health Sciences, Faculty of Health and 
Behavioural Sciences, The University of Queensland, Brisbane, Queensland, 
Australia.

The legalization of cannabis for medical and recreational purposes has 
progressed internationally. Cannabis and cannabinoids are advocated for a 
plethora of medical indications. An increasing number of medical and nonmedical 
users regularly consume large doses of delta-9-Tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), the 
main active component of cannabis. Aim: to summarize the evidence on (1) 
risks of recreational cannabis use and (2) effectiveness and safety of medicinal 
cannabis. Findings on recreational use: Cannabis is mostly used to experience 
its acute rewarding effects. Regular use of high THC products can produce 
addiction (cannabis use disorder or CUD). Acute consumption of high THC doses 
(including unintentionally) can cause time-limited mental, gastrointestinal, and 
cardiovascular problems and motor vehicle accidents. Chronic patterns of 
cannabis use have been associated with multiple adverse outcomes that are of 
particular concern among adolescents and young adults, such as, disrupted 
learning, impaired cognitive performance, reduced educational attainment and an 
increased risk of CUD, psychosis/schizophrenia, mood and anxiety disorders and 
suicidal behaviors. There is debate about the extent to which cannabis use is a 
cause of these adverse outcomes. Physical health risks (e.g., respiratory and 
cardiovascular, prematurity and restricted fetal growth, hyperemesis syndrome 
among others) have also been linked with repeated consumption of cannabis with a 
high THC content. Findings on medical cannabis use: Herbal cannabis, medicines 
from extracted or synthetized cannabinoids-often used as adjuvants to standard 
medicines-may produce small to modest benefits. This is primarily the case in 
treating chronic pain, muscle spasticity, chemotherapy-induced nausea and 
vomiting, and refractory epilepsy (in the case of cannabidiol, CBD). The 
evidence is inconclusive on their value in treating mental disorders and other 
medical conditions. Safety: Cannabis-based medicine is generally well tolerated. 
There is a risk of mild to moderate adverse effects and CUD.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s00406-024-01880-2
PMCID: PMC11910417
PMID: 39299947 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Conflict of interest: The authors 
have no conflict of interest.