[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: ethnobotany traditional medicine biological activi | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: ethnobotany traditional medicine biological activity]

85. J Ethnopharmacol. 2015 Nov 4;174:520-39. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2015.08.013. Epub
 2015 Aug 18.

"Wild cannabis": A review of the traditional use and phytochemistry of Leonotis 
leonurus.

Nsuala BN(1), Enslin G(2), Viljoen A(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Faculty of Science, Tshwane University 
of Technology, Private Bag X680, Pretoria, 0001, South Africa.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Faculty of Science, Tshwane University 
of Technology, Private Bag X680, Pretoria, 0001, South Africa. Electronic 
address: enslingm@tut.ac.za.
(3)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Faculty of Science, Tshwane University 
of Technology, Private Bag X680, Pretoria, 0001, South Africa; SAMRC Herbal 
Drugs Research Unit, Faculty of Science, Tshwane University of Technology, 
Private Bag X680, Pretoria, 0001, South Africa.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Leonotis leonurus, locally commonly known as 
"wilde dagga" (=wild cannabis), is traditionally used as a decoction, both 
topically and orally, in the treatment of a wide variety of conditions such as 
haemorrhoids, eczema, skin rashes, boils, itching, muscular cramps, headache, 
epilepsy, chest infections, constipation, spider and snake bites. The dried 
leaves and flowers are also smoked to relieve epilepsy. The leaves and flowers 
are reported to produce a mild euphoric effect when smoked and have been said to 
have a similar, although less potent, psychoactive effect to cannabis.
AIM OF THE REVIEW: To amalgamate the botanical aspects, ethnopharmacology, 
phytochemistry, biological activity, toxicity and commercial aspects of the 
scientific literature available on L. leonurus.
METHODS: An extensive review of the literature from 1900 to 2015 was carried 
out. Electronic databases including Scopus, SciFinder, Pubmed, Google Scholar 
and Google were used as data sources. All abstracts, full-text articles and 
books written in English were considered.
RESULTS: The phytochemistry of particularly the non-volatile constituents of L. 
leonurus has been comprehensively investigated due to interest generated as a 
result of the wide variety of biological effects reported for this plant. More 
than 50 compounds have been isolated and characterised. L. leonurus contains 
mainly terpenoids, particularly labdane diterpenes, the major diterpene reported 
is marrubiin. Various other compounds have been reported by some authors to have 
been isolated from the plant, including, in the popular literature only, the 
mildly psychoactive alkaloid, leonurine. Leonurine has however, never been 
reported by any scientific analysis of the extracts of L. leonurus.
CONCLUSION: Despite the publication of various papers on L. leonurus, there is 
still, however, the need for definitive research and clarification of other 
compounds, including alkaloids and essential oils from L. leonurus, as well as 
from other plant parts, such as the roots which are extensively used in 
traditional medicine. The traditional use by smoking also requires further 
investigation as to how the chemistry and activity are affected by this form of 
administration. Research has proven the psychoactive effects of the crude 
extract of L. leonurus, but confirmation of the presence of psychoactive 
compounds, as well as isolation and characterization, is still required. 
Deliberate adulteration of L. leonurus with synthetic cannabinoids has been 
reported recently, in an attempt to facilitate the marketing of these illegal 
substances, highlighting the necessity for refinement of appropriate quality 
control processes to ensure safety and quality. Much work is therefore still 
required on the aspect of quality control to ensure safety, quality and efficacy 
of the product supplied to patients, as this plant is widely used in South 
Africa as a traditional medicine. Commercially available plant sources provide a 
viable option for phytochemical research, particularly with regard to the 
appropriate validation of the plant material (taxonomy) in order to identify and 
delimit closely related species such as L. leonurus and L. nepetifolia which are 
very similar in habit.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2015.08.013
PMID: 26292023 [Indexed for MEDLINE]