[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: crystal structure protein drug target binding | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: crystal structure protein drug target binding]

83. Integr Biol (Camb). 2010 Oct;2(10):528-35. doi: 10.1039/c0ib00007h. Epub 2010
 Aug 27.

Control of crystal polymorph in microfluidics using molluscan 28 kDa 
Ca²(+)-binding protein.

Ji B(1), Cusack M, Freer A, Dobson PS, Gadegaard N, Yin H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Geographical & Earth Sciences, University of Glasgow, UK.

Biominerals produced by biological systems in physiologically relevant 
environments possess extraordinary properties that are often difficult to 
replicate under laboratory conditions. Understanding the mechanism that 
underlies the process of biomineralisation can lead to novel strategies in the 
development of advanced materials. Using microfluidics, we have demonstrated for 
the first time, that an extrapallial (EP) 28 kDa protein, located in the 
extrapallial compartment between mantle and shell of Mytilus edulis, can 
influence, at both micro- and nanoscopic levels, the morphology, structure and 
polymorph that is laid down in the shell ultrastructure. Crucially, this 
influence is predominantly dependent on the existence of an EP protein 
concentration gradient and its consecutive interaction with Ca²(+) ions. Novel 
lemon-shaped hollow vaterite structures with a clearly defined nanogranular 
assembly occur only where particular EP protein and Ca²(+) gradients co-exist. 
Computational fluid dynamics enabled the progress of the reaction to be mapped 
and the influence of concentration gradients across the device to be calculated. 
Importantly, these findings could not have been observed using conventional bulk 
mixing methods. Our findings not only provide direct experimental evidence of 
the potential influence of EP proteins in crystal formation, but also offer a 
new biomimetic strategy to develop functional biomaterials for applications such 
as encapsulation and drug delivery.

DOI: 10.1039/c0ib00007h
PMID: 20820629 [Indexed for MEDLINE]