[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: graphene biomedical applications toxicity review | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: graphene biomedical applications toxicity review]

80. Chem Rev. 2019 Aug 28;119(16):9559-9656. doi: 10.1021/acs.chemrev.9b00099.
Epub  2019 Jul 9.

Nanocarbons for Biology and Medicine: Sensing, Imaging, and Drug Delivery.

Panwar N(1), Soehartono AM(1), Chan KK(1), Zeng S(1)(2), Xu G(3), Qu J(3), 
Coquet P(2)(4), Yong KT(1), Chen X(5).

Author information:
(1)School of Electrical and Electronic Engineering , Nanyang Technological 
University , Singapore 639798 , Singapore.
(2)CINTRA CNRS/NTU/THALES, UMI 3288 , Research Techno Plaza, 50 Nanyang Drive, 
Border X Block , Singapore 637553 , Singapore.
(3)Key Laboratory of Optoelectronics Devices and Systems of Ministry of 
Education/Guangdong Province, College of Optoelectronic Engineering , Shenzhen 
University , Shenzhen 518060 , P. R. China.
(4)Institut d'Electronique, de Microélectronique et de Nanotechnologie (IEMN) , 
CNRS UMR 8520-Université de Lille , 59650 Villeneuve d'Ascq , France.
(5)Laboratory of Molecular Imaging and Nanomedicine, National Institute of 
Biomedical Imaging and Bioengineering , National Institutes of Health , Bethesda 
, Maryland 20892 , United States.

Nanocarbons with different dimensions (e.g., 0D fullerenes and carbon nanodots, 
1D carbon nanotubes and graphene nanoribbons, 2D graphene and graphene oxides, 
and 3D nanodiamonds) have attracted enormous interest for applications ranging 
from electronics, optoelectronics, and photovoltaics to sensing, bioimaging, and 
therapeutics due to their unique physical and chemical properties. Among them, 
nanocarbon-based theranostics (i.e., therapeutics and diagnostics) is one of the 
most intensively studied applications, as these nanocarbon materials serve as 
excellent biosensors, versatile drug/gene carriers for specific targeting in 
vivo, effective photothermal nanoagents for cancer therapy, and promising 
fluorescent nanolabels for cell and tissue imaging. This review provides a 
systematic overview of the latest theranostic applications of nanocarbon 
materials with a comprehensive comparison of the characteristics of different 
nanocarbon materials and their influences on theranostic applications. We first 
introduce the different carbon allotropes that can be used for theranostic 
applications with their respective preparation and surface functionalization 
approaches as well as their physical and chemical properties. Theranostic 
applications are described separately for both in vitro and in vivo systems by 
highlighting the protocols and the studied biosystems, followed by the toxicity 
and biodegradability implications. Finally, this review outlines the design 
considerations for nanocarbon materials as the key unifying themes that will 
serve as a foundational first principle for researchers to study, investigate, 
and generate effective, biocompatible, and nontoxic nanocarbon materials-based 
models for cancer theranostics applications. Finally, we summarize the review 
with an outlook on the challenges and novel theranostic protocols using 
nanocarbon materials for hard-to-treat cancers and other diseases. This review 
intends to present a comprehensive guideline for researchers in nanotechnology 
and biomedicine on the selection strategy of nanocarbon materials according to 
their specific requirements.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.chemrev.9b00099
PMID: 31287663 [Indexed for MEDLINE]