[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: traditional Chinese medicine herbs mechanism actio | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: traditional Chinese medicine herbs mechanism action]

50. Chin Med. 2023 Aug 16;18(1):101. doi: 10.1186/s13020-023-00813-w.

Multi-target regulatory mechanism of Yang Xin Tang - a traditional Chinese 
medicine against dementia.

Lo TY(1), Chan ASL(1), Cheung ST(1), Yung LY(1), Leung MMH(1)(2), Wong 
YH(3)(4)(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Division of Life Science and the Biotechnology Research Institute, Hong Kong 
University of Science and Technology, Hong Kong, China.
(2)Sir William Dunn School of Pathology, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK.
(3)Division of Life Science and the Biotechnology Research Institute, Hong Kong 
University of Science and Technology, Hong Kong, China. boyung@ust.hk.
(4)State Key Laboratory of Molecular Neuroscience, Molecular Neuroscience 
Center, Hong Kong University of Science and Technology, Hong Kong, China. 
boyung@ust.hk.
(5)Center for Aging Science, Hong Kong University of Science and Technology, 
Hong Kong, China. boyung@ust.hk.
(6)Hong Kong Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases, Units 1501-1502, 17 Science 
Park West Avenue, Hong Kong Science Park, Shatin, New Territories, Hong Kong, 
China. boyung@ust.hk.

BACKGROUND: Yang Xin Tang (YXT) is a traditional Chinese herbal preparation 
which has been reported to improve cognitive function and memory in patients 
with dementia. As the underlying mechanism of action of YXT has not been 
elucidated, we examined the effects of YXT and its major herbal components in 
regulating gene transcription and molecular targets related to Alzheimer's 
disease (AD).
METHODS: Aqueous and ethanol extracts of YXT and selected herbal components were 
prepared and validated by standard methods. A series of biochemical and cellular 
assays were employed to assess the ability of the herbal extracts to inhibit 
acetylcholinesterase, reduce β-amyloid aggregation, stimulate the 
differentiation of neural progenitor cells, suppress cyclooxygenase, and protect 
neurons against β-amyloid or N-methyl-D-aspartate-induced cytotoxicity. The 
effects of YXT on multiple molecular targets were further corroborated by a 
panel of nine reporter gene assays.
RESULTS: Extracts of YXT and two of its constituent herbs, Poria cocos and Poria 
Sclerotium pararadicis, significantly inhibited β-amyloid aggregation and 
β-amyloid-induced cytotoxicity. A protective effect of the YXT extract was 
similarly observed against N-methyl-D-aspartate-induced cytotoxicity in primary 
neurons, and this activity was shared by extracts of Radix Astragali and Rhizoma 
Chuanxiong. Although the YXT extract was ineffective, extracts of Poria cocos, 
Poria Sclerotium pararadicis and Radix Polygalae inhibited acetylcholine 
esterase, with the latter also capable of upregulating choline 
acetyltransferase. YXT and its components significantly inhibited the activities 
of the pro-inflammatory cyclooxygenases. Additionally, extracts of YXT and 
several of its constituent herbs significantly stimulated the phosphorylation of 
extracellular signal-regulated kinases and cAMP-responsive element binding 
protein, two molecular targets involved in learning and memory, as well as in 
the regulation of neurogenesis.
CONCLUSIONS: Several constituents of YXT possess multiple regulatory effects on 
known therapeutic targets of AD that range from β-amyloid to 
acetylcholinesterase. The demonstrated neuroprotective and neurogenic actions of 
YXT lend credence to its use as an alternative medicine for treating AD.

© 2023. International Society for Chinese Medicine and BioMed Central Ltd.

DOI: 10.1186/s13020-023-00813-w
PMCID: PMC10428601
PMID: 37587513

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.