[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: 1950s in LGBT rights | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# 1950s in LGBT rights — Overview

it were dishonorable. 1956 February 22 — The Hazel's Inn raid near San Francisco, California results in nearly 100 arrests of homosexuals. May — Confidential magazine publishes an expose on Sumner Welles' 1940 sex scandal, the Pullman porter affair. 1957 The Homosexual Law Reform Society forms in England for the sole purpose of decriminalizing homosexual acts. September 4 — The Wolfenden report is published in England. The committee recommends "that homosexual behavior between consenting adults in private should no longer be a criminal offense". The committee also recommended that the age of consent for sexual acts between men be set at 21, in contrast to 16 for heterosexual and lesbian sex. December 20 — Frank Kameny is fired from his job as an astronomer in the United States Army's Map Service in Washington, D.C., because of his homosexuality. A few days later he is blacklisted from seeking federal employment. These events spur Kameny into being a gay rights activist. 1958
 January 13 — The United States Supreme Court rules in One, Inc. v. Olesen that ONE: The Homosexual Magazine was not an obscene publication. It is the first U.S. Supreme Court ruling related to homosexuality. 1959
 May — LGBT people clash with police at Cooper's Donuts, a hang-out for drag queens and street hustlers who were frequently harassed by the Los Angeles Police Department (LAPD). Police arrest three people, including John Rechy, but other patrons begin pelting the police with donuts and coffee cups. The LAPD calls for back-up and arrests a number of rioters. Rechy and the other two original detainees are able to escape. December 23 — In Vallerga v. Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control, the Supreme Court of California rules that a 1955 statute allowing ABC to revoke the liquor license of any establishment that was a "resort ... for sexual perverts" violated the state constitution. The court indicates that had the revocation been based on accusations of homosexual conduct rather than the mere gathering of homosexuals, it might have upheld the statute. It established the right of LGBT people to congregate in California as long as they did not express their sexuality physically. See also

Timeline of LGBT history — timeline of events from 12,000 BCE to present
LGBT rights by country or territory — current legal status around the world
LGBT social movements

Notes

References
 Aldrich, Robert and Garry Wotherspoon (2001). Who's Who in Contemporary Gay and Lesbian History. Routledge. . Bullough, Vern L. (2002). Before Stonewall: Activists for Gay and Lesbian Rights in Historical Context. New York: Haworth Press. . D'Emilio, John (1983). Sexual Politics, Sexual Communities: The Making of a Homosexual Minority in the United States, 1940-1970. Chicago:  University of Chicago Press. . Eskridge, William N. (2002). Gaylaw: Challenging the Apartheid of the Closet. Cambridge, Mass.: Harvard University Press. . Faderman, Lillian and Stuart Timmons (2006). Gay L.A.: A History of Sexual Outlaws, Power Politics, and Lipstick Lesbians. Basic Books. . Gerassi, John, with introduction by Peter Boag (1966, reprinted 2001). The Boys of Boise: Furor, Vice and Folly in an American City. University of Washington Press. . Giblin, James Cross (2009). The Rise and Fall of Senator Joe McCarthy. Houghton Mifflin Harcourt. . Jennings, Kevin (1994). Becoming Visible: A Reader in Gay & Lesbian History for High School & College Students. Los Angeles: Alyson Publications. . Miller, Neil (1995). Out of the Past: Gay and Lesbian History from 1869 to the Present. New York: Vintage Books. . Miller, Neil (2002). Sex-crime Panic: A Journey to the Paranoid Heart of the 1950s. Los Angeles: Alyson Books. . Murdoch, Joyce and Deb Price (2001). Courting Justice: Gay Men and Lesbians v. the Supreme Court. New York: Basic Books, a member of the Perseus Books Group. . ≈
1950s in LGBT history