[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: traditional Chinese medicine herbs mechanism actio | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: traditional Chinese medicine herbs mechanism action]

94. Front Pharmacol. 2025 Feb 28;16:1516038. doi: 10.3389/fphar.2025.1516038. 
eCollection 2025.

Neuropeptides as regulators of bone metabolism: from molecular mechanisms to 
traditional Chinese medicine intervention strategies.

Lin Q(#)(1)(2), Zhao B(#)(1), Huang J(#)(3), Chen R(4), Sun W(1), Ye Q(2)(3), 
Yang L(2)(4), Zhu X(1)(2)(3), Li X(2)(4), Zhang R(2)(4).

Author information:
(1)College of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Jinan University, Guangzhou, 
Guangdong, China.
(2)Guangdong Provincial Key Laboratory of Traditional Chinese Medicine 
Informatization, Guangzhou, Guangdong, China.
(3)The First affiliated Hospital, Jinan University, Guangzhou, Guangdong, China.
(4)College of Pharmacy, Jinan University, Guangzhou, Guangdong, China.
(#)Contributed equally

Osteoporosis (OP) is a complex bone metabolism disorder disease that affects the 
skeleton, nervous system, muscles, and multiple tissues. Neuropeptides, which 
are endogenous substances derived from both bone and brain, play a critical role 
in maintaining the balance of bone metabolism. This review summarizes research 
conducted from 1986 to 2024 on the pathological mechanisms of neuropeptides and 
their receptors in the context of OP. Specifically, the roles of Neuropeptide Y, 
Vasoactive Intestinal Peptide, Calcitonin Gene-Related Peptide, and Substance P 
and their receptors in key processes of OP were examined, including their 
function of bone formation and resorption, osteoblast differentiation, and 
osteoclast differentiation. Our study showed that these neuropeptides could 
promote bone formation and inhibit bone resorption, while their receptors in 
osteocytes exhibit distinct functions, indicating complex regulatory mechanisms 
that require further investigation. Additionally, we summarize the progress of 
Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM) formulae, single TCM herbs, and bioactive 
compounds derived from TCM in exerting anti-OP effects through neuropeptide 
modulation. These studies highlight the multi-targeted and multi-mechanistic 
pharmacological actions of TCM in treating OP. By integrating these findings, we 
aim to enhance the understanding of neuropeptides' roles in bone metabolism and 
to explore the development of neuropeptide-targeted TCM therapies for OP 
management. This comprehensive perspective highlights the potential of 
neuropeptides as therapeutic targets, paving the way for innovative approaches 
to treating OP.

Copyright © 2025 Lin, Zhao, Huang, Chen, Sun, Ye, Yang, Zhu, Li and Zhang.

DOI: 10.3389/fphar.2025.1516038
PMCID: PMC11906480
PMID: 40093328

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.