[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: Marine pharmacognosy | Type: Instruction-QA | Level: Graduate]

Question: Provide a comprehensive expert-level explanation of Marine pharmacognosy in the context of Applied Sciences.

Answer:
Marine pharmacognosy is the investigation and identification of medically important plants and animals in the marine environment. It is a sub branch of terrestrial pharmacognosy. Generally the drugs are obtained from the marine species of bacteria, virus, algae, fungi and sponges. It is a relatively new field of study in western medicine, although many marine organisms were used in traditional Chinese medicine. It was not until 2004 that the first FDA approval of a drug came directly from the sea: ziconotide, which was isolated from a marine cone snail.

With 79% of the earth's surface covered by water, research into the chemistry of marine organisms is relatively unexplored and represents a vast resource for new medicines to combat major diseases such as cancer, AIDS or malaria. Research typically focuses on sessile organisms or slow moving animals because of their inherent need for chemical defenses.

Standard research involves an extraction of the organism in a suitable solvent followed by either an assay of this crude extract for a particular disease target or a rationally guided isolation of new chemical compounds using standard chromatography techniques.

Marine organisms as sources of natural products 
Over 70% of the earth's surface is covered by oceans which contain 95% of the earth's biosphere. It was over 3500 million years ago that organisms first appeared in the sea. Over time, they have evolved many different mechanisms to survive the various harsh environments which include extreme temperatures, salinity, pressure, different levels of aeration and radiation, overcoming effects of mutation, and combating infection, fouling and overgrowth by other organisms. Adaptations to survive the different environments could be by physical or chemical adaptation. Organisms with no apparent physical defense, like sessile organisms, are believed to have evolved chemical defenses to protect themselves. It is also believed that the compounds would have to be extremely potent due to the dilution effect of seawater. This has been described to be analogues to pheromones but with the purpose of repelling instead of attracting. As well, predators have evolved chemical weapons in order to paralyze or kill prey. Conus magus is an example of a cone snail that has a poisoned harpoon-like projectile which it uses to paralyze prey like small fish. Some organisms, like the Viperfish, are believed to attract small fish or prey by using its photophore.

Many different marine organisms have been explored for bioactive compounds. Some vertebrate animals include fish, sharks and snakes. Some examples of invertebrates are sponges, coelenterates, tunicates, echinoderms, corals, algae, molluscs and bryozoans. Some microorganisms include bacteria, fungi and cyanobacteria.

True Producer
There is an ongoing debate on what organisms are the actual true producers of some compounds. About 40% of the biomass of sponges can be from microorganisms. It's not surprising that some compounds may actually be produced by symbiotic microorganisms rather than the host.

Biological Diversity in Marine Environments
Marine environments are considered more biologically diverse than terrestrial environments. Thirty-two different animal phyla are represented in the oceans of the 33 recognized phyla. Fifteen different phyla are represented only in marine environments, while only 1 is exclusively terrestrial. Marine phyla also contain functionally unique organisms such as filter feeders and sessile organisms which have no terrestrial counterpart. Also, marine autotrophs are more diverse than their terrestrial counterparts. Marine autotrophs are believed to stem from at least 8 ancient clades while terrestrial organisms mainly stem from one clade, Embyrophyta. Marine environments may contain over 80% of the world's plant and animal species. The diversity of coral reefs can be extraordinary with species diversity reaching 1000 species per meter squared. The greatest marine tropical biodiversity is reported to be in the Indo-Pacific Ocean.

Sample Collection Technological Requirements
Collecting marine samples can range from very simple and inexpensive to very complicated expensive. Samples from near or on shores are readily accessible via beach combing, wading or snorkeling. Sample collection from deep water can be completed via dredging however, this is a very invasive technique which destroys the local habitat, does not allow for repeated sampling from the same location and compromises sample integrity. Corers can be used for sediment sample collection from deep locations quickly, easily and inexpensively. SCUBA diving was introduced in the 1940s however, it was not widely used until it became popular in the 1970s. SCUBA diving is limited in the duration that divers can spend underwater when conducted from the surface. If prolonged dives were necessary, an underwater laboratory could be used. Aquarius is the only underwater laboratory dedicated to marine science. For sample collection from depths that cannot be achieved by SCUBA diving, submersibles may be used. Sample collection by submersibles can be extremely expensive with costs for a submersible, support ship, technicians and support staff ranging between $10,000 to $45,000 per day.

Chemical Compound Isolation
For the isolation of biologically active compounds from organisms, several different steps need to be completed. The different steps required to obtain a biologically active compound are: Extraction, chromatographic purification, dereplication, structure elucidation and bioassay testing. The steps do not have to follow that particular order and many steps may be completed simultaneously. In the first step, the sample may be triturated and extracted with a suitable solvent or macerated. Some solvents used are methanol:chloroform, ethanol, acetonitrile, or others. The purpose is to remove organic compounds that have a medium polarity which are considered more "drug-like". I