[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: Luthrodes pandava | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Luthrodes pandava — Overview

than the second, the other segments about equal in size, the anal segment flattened and rounded, divisions between the segments well-marked. The larva throughout is very rough, widely pitted or depressed and covered with very minute white tubercles bearing very short fine hairs, neither the hairs nor the tubercles being visible without a lens. The body at its highest and widest part is wider than high. It is extremely variable in its markings, hardly any two being exactly alike; there is usually a dark, dorsal, subdorsal and lateral line dividing the upper surface of the body into three equal areas, the dorsal and two subdorsal lines coalescing on the eleventh segment and forming a broad band to the thirteenth. In some specimens the divisions between the segments are marked with darker and there is a subdorsal series of oblique dark lines, one on each segment between the dorsal and subdorsal lines. The underside of the body and legs seems to be always green. The erectile organs on the twelfth segment very small, feeds in Calcutta on Cycas revoluta. In Calcutta three species of ants attend this larva, which Professor Forel has identified for me as Prenolepis longicornis, Latr., Monomorium speculare, Mayr and Crematogaster, n. sp." (Lionel de Nicéville quoted in Bingham)

Pupa
"Of the usual Lycaenid form, quite smooth, more or less fuscous, with a darker dorsal and subdorsal line, head-case somewhat square, thorax slightly humped and constricted posteriorly, spiracles pale. Though the larva swarm in April and May in Calcutta on the cultivated cycads in gardens, eating the hardly opened shoots or fronds, thereby utterly destroying the appearance of the plant for the year, I have never succeeded in finding the pupa on the plants, and can only conclude that the ants drive the full-grown larvae down the stems of the plants into their nests, where the larvae undergo their transformations." (de Nicéville.)

References

Polyommatini
Butterflies of Asia
Butterflies described in 1829
Butterflies of Singapore