[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: MRI physics image quality artifact reduction | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: MRI physics image quality artifact reduction]

82. Anesth Analg. 2009 Jan;108(1):181-6. doi: 10.1213/ane.0b013e31818f8777.

Electrical noise in the intraoperative magnetic resonance imaging setting.

Dzwonczyk R(1), Fujii JT, Simonetti O, Nieves-Ramos R, Bergese SD.

Author information:
(1)Departments of Anesthesiology, The Ohio State University, Columbus, Ohio 
43214, USA. dzwonczyk.1@osu.ed

BACKGROUND: Intraoperative magnetic resonance imaging (iMRI) is a tool now 
commonly used in neurosurgery. Safe and reliable patient care in this (or any 
other) operating room setting depends on an environment, where electrical noise 
(EN) does not interfere with the operation of the electronic monitoring or 
imaging equipment. In this investigation, we evaluated the EN generated by the 
iMRI system and the anesthesia patient monitor used at this institution that 
impacts the performance of these two devices.
METHODS: We measured the EN generated by our iMRI-compatible anesthesia patient 
monitor as detected by the EN analysis algorithm in our iMRI system. We measured 
the EN generated by our iMRI system during scanning as detected in the 
electrocardiogram (ECG) waveform of our patient monitor. We analyzed the effects 
on EN reduction and signal quality of the ECG noise filters provided in our 
iMRI-compatible anesthesia patient monitor.
RESULTS: Our patient monitor generated EN that was detectable by the iMRI EN 
analysis algorithm; however, this interference was within the iMRI 
manufacturer's acceptable limits for an iMRI scan (<10% more than background 
system-level noise). In the clinical case analyzed, the iMRI generated a 
narrow-band low-frequency (20 Hz) relatively high-energy EN that interfered with 
the ECG signal of our patient monitor during an iMRI scan. This EN was 
correlated with the acoustic noise from the iMRI system during the scan and was 
associated with the radio frequency (RF) and magnetic gradient pulsations of the 
iMRI system. The integrity of the ECG waveform was nearly entirely lost during a 
scan. The filters of the ECG monitor diminished but did not entirely eliminate 
this 20 Hz interference. We found that the filters alter the morphology of the 
ECG signal, which may make it difficult to identify clinically relevant ECG 
changes.
CONCLUSION: The EN generated by our anesthesia patient monitor is within 
acceptable limits for the iMRI system. The iMRI generates EN which renders the 
ECG unreadable in the most commonly used filter mode. The monitor's filters 
diminish this noise but also alter the morphology of the ECG waveform. The 
anesthesiologist must be cognizant of these technical compromises and recognize 
that adjusting the ECG filters on the monitor is required to obtain a useful ECG 
signal for patient monitoring during the iMRI scan but that the diagnostic value 
of the ECG will be reduced.

DOI: 10.1213/ane.0b013e31818f8777
PMCID: PMC5166575
PMID: 19095847 [Indexed for MEDLINE]