[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: graphene biomedical applications toxicity review | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: graphene biomedical applications toxicity review]

63. (99m)Tc-Glucosamine-multiwall carbon nanotubes.

Cheng KT(1), Guo J(2), Zhang X(3).

In: Molecular Imaging and Contrast Agent Database (MICAD) [Internet]. Bethesda 
(MD): National Center for Biotechnology Information (US); 2004–2013.
2007 Oct 2 [updated 2007 Nov 5].

Author information:
(1)National Center for Biotechnology Information, NLM, NIH, Bethesda, MD, 
micad@ncbi.nlm.nih.gov
(2)College of Chemistry and Molecular Engineer, Qingdao University of Science & 
Technology, China, gix213@126.com
(3)College of Chemistry and Molecular Engineer, Qingdao University of Science & 
Technology, China, Zhx121@126.com

The 99mTc-glucosamine-multiwall carbon nanotube (99mTc-MWNT-G) is a 
functionalized nanoconstruct conjugated with 99mTc and has been developed for in 
vivo gamma imaging (1). 99mTc is a gamma emitter with a physical half-life (t½) 
of 6.02 h. As part of the development of nanotechnology, carbon nanotubes (CNTs) 
(2-5) are essentially hexagonal networks of carbon atoms arranged like a layer 
of graphite rolled into a cylinder. There are single-walled CNTs (SWNT) with 
only a single layer and multi-walled CNTs (MWNT) with many layers. Both SWNTs 
and MWNTs may possess lengths up to tens of micrometers and diameters from a few 
nanometers to hundreds of nanometers. There are numerous potential applications 
of CNTs in medicine. For example, the integration of CNTs and biomolecules 
provides a novel platform to deliver a therapeutic or diagnostic “payload” to a 
molecular target (6-9). A major advantage of CNTs is that a single CNT provides 
many potential attachment sites for appending various ligands and multiple 
copies of different targeting moieties. Although there are some concerns about 
the toxic potential of CNTs (6), soluble, non-aggregated, functionalized CNTs 
appear to be nontoxic to the biological system (7, 8). As a result, the 
biocompability of functionalized CNTs is much improved, and they are being 
studied as novel carrier systems for diagnostic and therapeutic agents in vivo 
(9, 10). Most functionalized CNTs resulted in solubilization in organic solvents 
(11). Because water-soluble CNTs have wider biochemical and biomedical 
applications, research efforts have been directed to find effective method of 
solubilization of CNTs in water (11-13). Didenko et al. (14) reported wrapping 
the CNTs in fluorescent polymer poly(vinylpyrrolidone) for visualization. 
McDevitt et al. (10, 15) used 111In- and 86Y-labeled soluble, 
amino-functionalized CNT for imaging. Pompeo et al. (11) used glucosamine to 
improve water solubility of CNTs. Glucosamine has high water solubility and an 
amine group that can easily form an amide bond with CNTs (11, 16, 17). Guo et 
al. (1) prepared 99mTc-MWNT-G by functionalization of MWNTs with glucosamine. 
99mTc-MWNT-G is water-soluble, and further modification of the MWNT-G construct 
may allow development of a versatile delivery system for molecular targeting.

PMID: 20641677