[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: ethnobotany traditional medicine biological activi | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: ethnobotany traditional medicine biological activity]

24. Molecules. 2023 May 15;28(10):4094. doi: 10.3390/molecules28104094.

Ethnobotany, Biological Activities and Phytochemical Compounds of Some Species 
of the Genus Eryngium (Apiaceae), from the Central-Western Region of Mexico.

Cárdenas-Valdovinos JG(1), García-Ruiz I(1), Angoa-Pérez MV(1), Mena-Violante 
HG(1).

Author information:
(1)Instituto Politécnico Nacional, Department of Research, CIIDIR IPN Unidad 
Michoacán, Jiquilpan 59510, Mexico.

There are approximately 250 species of Eryngium L. distributed throughout the 
world, with North America and South America being centers of diversity on this 
continent. In the central-western region of Mexico there may be around 28 
species of this genus. Some Eryngium species are cultivated as leafy vegetables, 
ornamental, and medicinal plants. In traditional medicine they are used to treat 
respiratory and gastrointestinal conditions, diabetes, and dyslipidemia, among 
others. This review addresses the phytochemistry and biological activities, as 
well as traditional uses, distribution, and characteristics of the eight species 
of Eryngium reported as medicinal in the central-western region of Mexico: E. 
cymosum, E. longifolium, E. fluitans (or mexicanum), E. beecheyanum, E. 
carlinae, E. comosum, E. heterophyllum, and E. nasturtiifolium. The extracts of 
the different Eryngium spp. have shown biological activities such as 
hypoglycemic, hypocholesterolemic, renoprotective, anti-inflammatory, 
antibacterial, and antioxidant, among others. E. carlinae is the most studied 
species, and phytochemical analyses, performed mainly by high-performance liquid 
chromatography (HPLC) and gas chromatography coupled with mass spectrometry 
(GC-MS), have shown its content of terpenoids, fatty acids, organic acids, 
phenolic acids, flavonoids, sterols, saccharides, polyalcohols, and aromatic and 
aliphatic aldehydes. According to the results of this review on Eryngium spp., 
they constitute a relevant alternative as a source of bioactive compounds for 
pharmaceutical, food, and other industries. However, there is a lot of research 
to be conducted regarding phytochemistry, biological activities, cultivation, 
and propagation, in those species with few or no reports.

DOI: 10.3390/molecules28104094
PMCID: PMC10221068
PMID: 37241835 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest. The 
funders had no role in the design of the study; in the collection, analyses, or 
interpretation of data; in the writing of the manuscript; or in the decision to 
publish the results.