[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: MRI physics image quality artifact reduction | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: MRI physics image quality artifact reduction]

62. Z Med Phys. 2018 Aug;28(3):236-246. doi: 10.1016/j.zemedi.2018.02.004. Epub
2018  Mar 23.

Increasing robustness of radial GRASE acquisition for SAR-reduced brain imaging.

Okanovic M(1), Völker M(2), Trampel R(3), Breuer F(4), Jakob P(2), Blaimer M(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Experimental Physics 5, University of Würzburg, Würzburg, 
Germany. Electronic address: okanovic@physik.uni-wuerzburg.de.
(2)Department of Experimental Physics 5, University of Würzburg, Würzburg, 
Germany.
(3)Max Planck Institute for Human Cognitive and Brain Sciences, Leipzig, 
Germany.
(4)Fraunhofer Institute for Integrated Circuits (IIS), Development Center for 
X-ray Technology (EZRT), Würzburg, Germany.

PURPOSE: To improve a radial multi-slice 2D gradient- and spin-echo (GRASE) 
sequence and provide an appropriate image reconstruction technique for 
SAR-reduced high-resolution neuroimaging.
METHODS: Additional readout gradients per radio-frequency (RF) refocusing allow 
for a reduced number of RF pulses. In this way, a specific absorption rate (SAR) 
reduction is achieved and the application at high-field systems becomes more 
feasible. A phase insensitive image reconstruction is proposed to reduce signal 
dropout artifacts originating from opposite readout polarities. In addition, the 
image reconstruction allows for the calculation of images with varying contrast 
from one measurement.
RESULTS: Results obtained at 3T and 7T demonstrate a SAR-reduction of at least 
66% for a single-slice experiment with radial GRASE. The reduced SAR is used for 
an increased spatial coverage without increasing the measurement time. 
Experiments at 3T and 7T showed that the visual image quality is comparable to 
standard TSE and GRASE sequences with the same measurement parameters. Using 
higher EPI factors and the presented image reconstruction, artifact-free images 
with a significant SAR-reduction can be achieved.
CONCLUSION: Radial GRASE enables SAR-reduced acquisitions of high-resolution 
brain images with different contrasts from one measurement and is a promising 
sequence for high-field neuroimaging.

Copyright © 2018. Published by Elsevier GmbH.

DOI: 10.1016/j.zemedi.2018.02.004
PMID: 29580616 [Indexed for MEDLINE]