[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: magnetic nanoparticle hyperthermia cancer therapy | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: magnetic nanoparticle hyperthermia cancer therapy]

29. Sensors (Basel). 2021 Aug 18;21(16):5545. doi: 10.3390/s21165545.

Numerical Investigation of Ferrofluid Preparation during In-Vitro Culture of 
Cancer Therapy for Magnetic Nanoparticle Hyperthermia.

Raouf I(1), Gas P(2), Kim HS(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Mechanical, Robotics and Energy Engineering, Dongguk 
University-Seoul, 30 Pildong-ro 1-gil, Jung-gu, Seoul 100-715, Korea.
(2)Department of Electrical and Power Engineering, AGH University of Science and 
Technology, Mickiewicza 30 Avenue, 30-059 Krakow, Poland.

Recently, in-vitro studies of magnetic nanoparticle (MNP) hyperthermia have 
attracted significant attention because of the severity of this cancer therapy 
for in-vivo culture. Accurate temperature evaluation is one of the key 
challenges of MNP hyperthermia. Hence, numerical studies play a crucial role in 
evaluating the thermal behavior of ferrofluids. As a result, the optimum 
therapeutic conditions can be achieved. The presented research work aims to 
develop a comprehensive numerical model that directly correlates the MNP 
hyperthermia parameters to the thermal response of the in-vitro model using 
optimization through linear response theory (LRT). For that purpose, the 
ferrofluid solution is evaluated based on various parameters, and the 
temperature distribution of the system is estimated in space and time. 
Consequently, the optimum conditions for the ferrofluid preparation are 
estimated based on experimental and mathematical findings. The reliability of 
the presented model is evaluated via the correlation analysis between magnetic 
and calorimetric methods for the specific loss power (SLP) and intrinsic loss 
power (ILP) calculations. Besides, the presented numerical model is verified 
with our experimental setup. In summary, the proposed model offers a novel 
approach to investigate the thermal diffusion of a non-adiabatic ferrofluid 
sample intended for MNP hyperthermia in cancer treatment.

DOI: 10.3390/s21165545
PMCID: PMC8402254
PMID: 34450987 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.