[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: nanoparticle drug delivery tumor targeting cancer | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: nanoparticle drug delivery tumor targeting cancer]

30. Biomed Mater. 2023 Aug 2;18(5). doi: 10.1088/1748-605X/ace8de.

Delivery of chemotherapeutic drug targeting folate receptor to oral cancer cells 
using functionalized carbon nanospheres.

Bhattacharya D(1), Sakhare K(1), Dhiman C(1), Ansari A(2)(3), Kundu TK(4), 
Narayan KP(1), Banerjee R(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Science, Birla Institute of Technology & Science 
Pilani, Hyderabad Campus, Jawaharnagar, Kapra Mandal, Hyderabad, Telangana 
500078, India.
(2)Division of Applied Biology, CSIR-Indian Institute of Chemical Technology, 
Uppal Road, Hyderabad, Telangana 500076, India.
(3)Academy of Scientific & Innovative Research (AcSIR), CSIR-HRDC Campus, 
Ghaziabad 201002, India.
(4)Transcription and Disease Laboratory, Molecular Biology and Genetics Unit, 
Jawaharlal Nehru Centre for Advanced Scientific Research, Bangalore 560064, 
India.

Folate receptor (FR) (α) has long been the subject of active interest as regards 
its potential to serve as a target for cancer therapy. FR has been found to be 
overexpressed in several cancers, including clinical samples of different stages 
from OSCC (oral squamous cell carcinoma) patients. However, no clear correlation 
or conclusive finding has been obtained so far which might indicate the efficacy 
of FR as a credible target for the treatment of OSCC. All cell lines to be used 
were assessed for FR-expression. Subsequently, we developed glucose-derived 
carbon nanospheres (CSPs) and primed them with a Folate-based cationic lipid FA8 
and the chemotherapeutic drug doxorubicin (DOX). CSP based delivery systems 
along with pristine drug DOX were characterized and treated subsequently toin 
vitrocultures of OSCC cells and assessed for cancer cell targetability as well 
as cell death. Subsequently, treatment was administered to immunocompetent C57 
mice carrying MOC2 based syngeneic OSCC tumours and assessed for tumour 
regression and toxicity. Ligand primed targeted CSPs exhibited commendable drug 
uptake as well as efficient induction of cell death. Further, receptor blocking 
studies revealed FR-mediated uptake, preferentially in cancer cells. Drug once 
delivered by ligand-primed CSPs was retained longer inside cells than pristine 
drug alone, indicating possibilities of better therapeutic outcome. In animal 
studies, CSP-FA8-DOX (Ligand primed targeted CSP) demonstrated significant 
regression in tumour size compared to pristine DOX as well as CSP-DOX 
(non-targeted CSP) treated animals. FR-mediated system CFD demonstrated targeted 
drug uptake and apoptotic death selectively in cancer cells. Significant tumour 
regression was also observedin vivo. Overall, it may be presumed that the FR is 
a therapeutic target with substantial potential in OSCC treatment.

© 2023 IOP Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1088/1748-605X/ace8de
PMID: 37467764 [Indexed for MEDLINE]