[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: traditional Chinese medicine herbs mechanism actio | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: traditional Chinese medicine herbs mechanism action]

38. J Ethnopharmacol. 2026 Mar 1;358:121032. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2025.121032. Epub
 2025 Dec 10.

Emerging insights into traditional Chinese medicine interventions for 
chemotherapy-induced cardiotoxicity.

Li J(1), Zhang Z(2), Xu D(3), Fu R(4), Gong Z(5), Tang Y(6), Chen Y(7).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Shaanxi Administration of Traditional Chinese Medicine for 
TCM Compatibility, Shaanxi University of Chinese Medicine, Xi'an, 712046, China; 
Wuxi Institute of Chinese and Western Integrative Medicine, and Wuxi Cancer 
Institute, Affiliated Hospital of Jiangnan University, Wuxi, 214062, China. 
Electronic address: acdflj@163.com.
(2)Department of Integrative Oncology, Affiliated Hospital of Jiangnan 
University, Wuxi, 214062, Jiangsu Province, China. Electronic address: 
zz_doctor1988@163.com.
(3)Key Laboratory of Shaanxi Administration of Traditional Chinese Medicine for 
TCM Compatibility, Shaanxi University of Chinese Medicine, Xi'an, 712046, China. 
Electronic address: xudingqiao16@126.com.
(4)Key Laboratory of Shaanxi Administration of Traditional Chinese Medicine for 
TCM Compatibility, Shaanxi University of Chinese Medicine, Xi'an, 712046, China. 
Electronic address: frjde@sina.com.
(5)Wuxi Institute of Chinese and Western Integrative Medicine, and Wuxi Cancer 
Institute, Affiliated Hospital of Jiangnan University, Wuxi, 214062, China. 
Electronic address: jichan@jiangnan.edu.cn.
(6)Key Laboratory of Shaanxi Administration of Traditional Chinese Medicine for 
TCM Compatibility, Shaanxi University of Chinese Medicine, Xi'an, 712046, China. 
Electronic address: yupingtang@sntcm.edu.cn.
(7)Key Laboratory of Shaanxi Administration of Traditional Chinese Medicine for 
TCM Compatibility, Shaanxi University of Chinese Medicine, Xi'an, 712046, China; 
Wuxi Institute of Chinese and Western Integrative Medicine, and Wuxi Cancer 
Institute, Affiliated Hospital of Jiangnan University, Wuxi, 214062, China. 
Electronic address: chenyanyan59@163.com.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Chemotherapy-induced cardiotoxicity (CIC) is a 
serious and potentially life-threatening adverse effect associated with various 
chemotherapeutic agents, which has become the second leading cause of mortality 
among cancer survivors, following only the malignancy itself. However, effective 
preventive and therapeutic strategies for CIC remain limited. Accumulating 
evidence suggests that traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) holds considerable 
promise in mitigating CIC through multiple pathways. However, research findings 
in this field are currently fragmented and lack systematic integration.
AIM OF THE STUDY: To provide a comprehensive understanding of the current 
research status, emerging hotspots, developmental trends, and key challenges in 
the field of TCM interventions for CIC.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A systematic literature search was conducted using the 
China National Knowledge Infrastructure and Web of Science databases from 
January 1, 2000, to December 30, 2024. CiteSpace software was employed for 
visualization and knowledge mapping, enabling an in-depth analysis of research 
hotspots and trends in TCM interventions for CIC.
RESULTS: A total of 532 relevant articles were retrieved, with the number of 
publications showing an increasing trend over the past two decades. Core authors 
such as Xie Ming, Ji Xuming, and Fu Chaomei, along with institutions like 
Beijing University of Chinese Medicine and the Shanghai University of 
Traditional Chinese Medicine, have played leading roles in this field. 
Co-occurrence and clustering of keywords revealed several core research domains, 
including tumor types associated with CIC, chemotherapeutic agents inducing CIC, 
and pharmacological mechanisms of TCM interventions. Burst keywords and timeline 
analyses highlighted emerging research hotspots and developmental trends, such 
as enhancing efficacy, reducing toxicity, and elucidating underlying mechanism, 
reflecting a shift toward mechanistic exploration and clinical translation. The 
article further discusses various TCM therapies-including classical TCM 
formulas, modern TCM formulas, single herbs, active compounds and injections-in 
alleviating CIC, as well as modern pharmacological insights and the current 
challenges in this field.
CONCLUSION: Over the past two decades, interest in TCM interventions for CIC has 
grown significantly. Current research hotspots focus on the pathophysiological 
mechanisms of CIC and emerging evidence supports the potential of multi-target 
TCM interventions as a strategy to mitigate CIC. However, key challenges remain, 
future research should prioritize the discovery of novel TCM candidates, 
in-depth mechanistic investigations, and the implementation of high-quality 
clinical trials to support evidence-based application of TCM in CIC prevention 
and treatment.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2025.121032
PMID: 41386310 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.