[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Propulsion Mechanics | Topic: Quinjet | Type: Instruction-QA | Level: Graduate]

Question: Provide a comprehensive expert-level explanation of Quinjet in the context of Applied Sciences.

Answer:
The Quinjet is a fictional jet aircraft appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. Created by writer Roy Thomas and artist John Buscema, the aircraft first appeared in The Avengers #61 (February 1969).

The Quinjet was first designed by the Wakanda Design Group, headed by the superhero T'Challa / Black Panther. Each one is equipped with VTOL capability and five turbojet engines. It is used primarily by the Avengers as a personal transport vehicle.

Publication history
The Quinjet debuted in The Avengers #61 (February 1969), created by Roy Thomas and John Buscema. It appeared in the 1993 Infinity Crusade series. It appeared in the 2005 New Avengers series. It appeared in the 2020 Empyre series.

Reception

Critical response 
Rachel Leishman of The Mary Sue asserted, "There’s a reason the Quinjet is so iconic to fans, and … maybe it’s because we dream of a world where all our heroes are still alive and flying around on it together." Jamie Lovett of ComicBook.com referred to the Quinjet as one of "Mavel's most iconic vehicles." Comic Book Resources ranked the Quinjet 1st in their "10 Best Vehicles In The Marvel Universe" list, 8th in their "10 Most Important Vehicles In The Marvel Universe" list, 9th in their "10 Coolest Vehicles In Marvel Comics" list. Casey Haney of Screen Rant ranked the Quinjet 15th in their "16 Best Superhero Vehicles" list.

Thomas Shambler of Esquire compared the concept of the Quinjet to the proposed VTOL business jet concept Pegasus VBJ.

In other media

Television 

 The Quinjet appears in Avengers: Earth's Mightiest Heroes. 
 The Quinjet appears in Avengers Assemble. This version is a larger stylized Quinjet-like aircraft known as the Avenjet and is the Avengers' personal transport vehicle.
 The Quinjet appears in Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D..

Film 

 The Quinjet appears in The Avengers.
 The Quinjet appears in Captain America: The Winter Soldier.
 The Quinjet appears in Captain America: Civil War.
 The Quinjet appears in Avengers: Age of Ultron.
 The Quinjet appears in Thor: Ragnarok. 
 The Quinjet appears in Black Widow.

Video games 

 The Quinjet appears in Lego Marvel’s Avengers.
 The Quinjet appears as an Avengers-themed cosmetic in Fortnite.
 The Quinjet appears in Marvel's Avengers.
 The Quinjet appears in the digital collectible card game Marvel Snap.

Merchandise 

 In 2014, Hasbro released a Quinjet figurine inspired by the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU) incarnation of the vehicle.
 In 2019, Lego released the "LEGO Avengers Ultimate Quinjet" set containing a Quinjet Lego minifigure inspired by the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU) incarnation of the vehicle.
 In 2023, Lego released the "LEGO Marvel The Avengers Quinjet" set containing a Quinjet Lego minifigure inspired by the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU) incarnation of the vehicle.

Theme parks 

 The Quinjet appears at the Avengers Campus at Disneyland Paris.

References

Avengers (comics)
Fictional aircraft
Marvel Comics vehicles