[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: ethnobotany traditional medicine biological activi | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: ethnobotany traditional medicine biological activity]

3. Phytother Res. 2021 Feb;35(2):711-742. doi: 10.1002/ptr.6858. Epub 2020 Sep
20.

Ginger (Zingiber officinale Rosc.) and its bioactive components are potential 
resources for health beneficial agents.

Zhang M(1), Zhao R(1), Wang D(1), Wang L(1), Zhang Q(1), Wei S(2), Lu F(1), Peng 
W(1), Wu C(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Pharmacy, Chengdu University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, 
Chengdu, China.
(2)Basic Medical School, Chengdu University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, 
Chengdu, China.

Zingiber officinale Rosc. (Zingiberacae), commonly known as ginger, is a 
perennial and herbaceous plant with long cultivation history. Ginger rhizome is 
one of the most popular food spices with unique pungent flavor and is prescribed 
as a well-known traditional Chinese herbal medicine. To date, over 160 
constituents, including volatile oil, gingerol analogues, diarylheptanoids, 
phenylalkanoids, sulfonates, steroids, and monoterpenoid glycosides compounds, 
have been isolated and identified from ginger. Increasing evidence has revealed 
that ginger possesses a broad range of biological activities, especially 
gastrointestinal-protective, anti-cancer, and obesity-preventive effects. In 
addition, gingerol analogues such as 6-gingerol and 6-shogaol can be rapidly 
eliminated in the serum and detected as glucuronide and sulfate conjugates. 
Structural variation would be useful to improve the metabolic characteristics 
and bioactivities of lead compounds derived from ginger. Furthermore, some 
clinical trials have indicated that ginger can be consumed for attenuating 
nausea and vomiting during early pregnancy; however, there is not sufficient 
data available to rule out its potential toxicity, which should be monitored 
especially over longer periods. This review provides an up-to-date understanding 
of the scientific evidence on the development of ginger and its active compounds 
as health beneficial agents in future clinical trials.

© 2020 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/ptr.6858
PMID: 32954562 [Indexed for MEDLINE]