[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: graphene biomedical applications toxicity review | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: graphene biomedical applications toxicity review]

84. Am J Transl Res. 2019 Jun 15;11(6):3246-3260. eCollection 2019.

The application of graphene-based biomaterials in biomedicine.

Han S(1), Sun J(1), He S(2), Tang M(3)(4)(5), Chai R(1)(2)(3)(4)(6)(7)(5).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Bioelectronics, School of Biological Science and 
Medical Engineering, Southeast University Nanjing 210096, China.
(2)Department of Otolaryngology Head and Neck, Nanjing Tongren Hospital, School 
of Medicine, Southeast University Nanjing 211102, China.
(3)MOE Key Laboratory for Developmental Genes and Human Disease, Institute of 
Life Sciences, Jiangsu Province High-Tech Key Laboratory for Bio-Medical 
Research, Southeast University Nanjing 210096, China.
(4)Co-Innovation Center of Neuroregeneration, Nantong University Nantong 226001, 
China.
(5)Joint Research Institute of Southeast University and Monash University Suzhou 
215123, China.
(6)Institute for Stem Cell and Regeneration, Chinese Academy of Science Beijing, 
China.
(7)Beijing Key Laboratory of Neural Regeneration and Repair, Capital Medical 
University Beijing 100069, China.

Graphene-based nanocomposites have attracted more and more attention recently in 
the field of biology and biomedicine. Graphene and its derivatives have been 
integrated with drugs, nucleic acids, antibodies, and other molecules. And these 
materials could be use as nanocomposite carriers or scaffold materials taking 
advantages of their enormous specific surface area, good elasticity and 
ductility, excellent biocompatibility, and outstanding mechanical strength. In 
addition, these composites have strong near-infrared absorbance and can act as 
photothermal agents to kill target cells through physical or chemical 
mechanisms. Along with significant advances in cell and organ transplantation, 
many of these materials have been explored in recent years for use in tissue 
engineering and regenerative medicine. Tissue engineering includes bone, nerve, 
heart, and muscle tissue engineering based on two-dimensional and 
three-dimensional graphene-based matrices or scaffolds possessing certain 
mechanical strengths and electrical conductivities, and the aim is to produce 
bioactive tissues to replace or repair natural tissue by promoting osteogenic, 
neuronal, and myogenic differentiation and myocardial cell growth. In this 
review, the basic properties of graphene-based complexes are systematically 
described and the biomedical applications of graphene-based materials in vivo 
and in vitro are summarized. This review first discusses the safety of 
graphene-based materials in terms of their biocompatibility and toxicity, and 
then it discusses these materials' applications in biosensing, photothermal 
therapy, stem cell culture, and tissue engineering. This review therefore 
provides a comprehensive understanding of graphene and its derivatives and their 
present and future applications.

PMCID: PMC6614642
PMID: 31312342

Conflict of interest statement: None.