[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: laser tissue interaction ablation photothermal | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: laser tissue interaction ablation photothermal]

3. Environ Res. 2023 Nov 1;236(Pt 1):116526. doi: 10.1016/j.envres.2023.116526. 
Epub 2023 Jul 22.

Nanoarchitecture-based photothermal ablation of cancer: A systematic review.

Malekzadeh R(1), Mortezazadeh T(2), Abdulsahib WK(3), Babaye Abdollahi B(2), 
Hamblin MR(4), Mansoori B(5), Alsaikhan F(6), Zeng B(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Physics, School of Medicine, Tabriz University of 
Medical Sciences, Tabriz, Iran; Medical Radiation Science Research Team, Tabriz 
University of Medical Sciences, Tabriz, Iran.
(2)Department of Medical Physics, School of Medicine, Tabriz University of 
Medical Sciences, Tabriz, Iran.
(3)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, College of Pharmacy, Al Farahidi 
University, Baghdad, Iraq.
(4)Laser Research Centre, Faculty of Health Science, University of Johannesburg, 
Doornfontein, 2028, South Africa.
(5)The Wistar Institute, Cellular and Molecular Oncogenesis Program, 
Philadelphia, PA, USA. Electronic address: bmansoori@wistar.org.
(6)College of Pharmacy, Prince Sattam Bin Abdulaziz University, Alkharj, Saudi 
Arabia.
(7)Department of Thoracic Surgery, The First Affiliated Hospital, Sun Yat-sen 
University, 510080, Guangzhou, China. Electronic address: 
zengb7@mail.sysu.edu.cn.

Photothermal therapy (PTT) is an emerging non-invasive method used in cancer 
treatment. In PTT, near-infrared laser light is absorbed by a chromophore and 
converted into heat within the tumor tissue. PTT for cancer usually combines a 
variety of interactive plasmonic nanomaterials with laser irradiation. PTT 
enjoys PT agents with high conversion efficiency to convert light into heat to 
destroy malignant tissue. In this review, published studies concerned with the 
use of nanoparticles (NPs) in PTT were collected by a systematic and 
comprehensive search of PubMed, Cochrane, Embase, and Scopus databases. Gold, 
silver and iron NPs were the most frequent choice in PTT. The use of surface 
modified NPs allowed selective delivery and led to a precise controlled increase 
in the local temperature. The presence of NPs during PTT can increase the 
reactive generation of oxygen species, damage the DNA and mitochondria, leading 
to cancer cell death mainly via apoptosis. Many studies recently used core-shell 
metal NPs, and the effects of the polymer coating or ligands targeted to 
specific cellular receptors in order to increase PTT efficiency were often 
reported. The effective parameters (NP type, size, concentration, coated 
polymers or attached ligands, exposure conditions, cell line or type, and cell 
death mechanisms) were investigated individually. With the advances in chemical 
synthesis technology, NPs with different shapes, sizes, and coatings can be 
prepared with desirable properties, to achieve multimodal cancer treatment with 
precision and specificity.

Copyright © 2023. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.envres.2023.116526
PMID: 37487920 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.