[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: Matrix comparison method of stator windings of induction gen | Type: OpenAlex-OA | Level: Graduate]

[OpenAlex | Applied Magnetism | Year: 2020 | Citations: 2]

Title: Matrix comparison method of stator windings of induction generators by harmonic composition of magnetomotive force

Abstract:
At agricultural enterprises, squirrel-cage induction generators (IG), for which batch asynchronous motors (AM) can be used, are used as low-power generators of electric energy from renewable and traditional sources. The most difficult and technologically time-consuming part of AM is the stator winding. Its electromagnetic properties, manufacturability and cost determine the basic parameters of the machine -energy, economic efficiency, operational reliability and service life. Therefore, the choice of rational winding diagrams, research and optimization of their electromagnetic parameters for different connection diagrams of IG is a critical stage in the development and production of AM and IG. Induction generators use capacitances for selfexcitation and the higher harmonics in the EMF of the generator cause additional high frequency currents in these capacitances. The scheme analysis principles of three-phase stator windings of IG are discussed in the paper. It is indicated that the matrix analysis method of windings on their structural matrices may be possible. The paper describes the formalization technique using the Mathcad procedure for constructing and analyzing the magnetomotive forces (MMF) polygons. The MMF of windings and their harmonic composition up to 80 harmonics have been compared. It was shown that such indicators of the harmonic composition of MMF as: relative higher harmonic content, the harmonic coefficient quantitative values, along with the differential scattering coefficient, allow to compare the winding quality. This allows the determination and optimization of electromagnetic parameters of the proposed winding diagrams to minimize the higher harmonics content, depending on the coil performance and evaluate their effectiveness and compare different options for the winding diagrams. The study results suggest the future parameters of the induction machine and the possibility to use in induction generator mode at the design phase of the stator winding.