[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS neurology | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS neurology]

93. PLoS One. 2011;6(9):e24836. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0024836. Epub 2011 Sep
29.

Transcranial magnetic stimulation intensities in cognitive paradigms.

Kaminski JA(1), Korb FM, Villringer A, Ott DV.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cognitive Neurology, Max Planck Institute for Human Cognitive 
and Brain Sciences, Leipzig, Germany.

BACKGROUND: Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) has become an important 
experimental tool for exploring the brain's functional anatomy. As TMS 
interferes with neural activity, the hypothetical function of the stimulated 
area can thus be tested. One unresolved methodological issue in TMS experiments 
is the question of how to adequately calibrate stimulation intensities. The 
motor threshold (MT) is often taken as a reference for individually adapted 
stimulation intensities in TMS experiments, even if they do not involve the 
motor system. The aim of the present study was to evaluate whether it is 
reasonable to adjust stimulation intensities in each subject to the individual 
MT if prefrontal regions are stimulated prior to the performance of a cognitive 
paradigm.
METHODS AND FINDINGS: Repetitive TMS (rTMS) was applied prior to a working 
memory task, either at the 'fixed' intensity of 40% maximum stimulator output 
(MSO), or individually adapted at 90% of the subject's MT. Stimulation was 
applied to a target region in the left posterior middle frontal gyrus (pMFG), as 
indicated by a functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) localizer acquired 
beforehand, or to a control site (vertex). Results show that MT predicted the 
effect size after stimulating subjects with the fixed intensity (i.e., subjects 
with a low MT showed a greater behavioral effect). Nevertheless, the individual 
adaptation of intensities did not lead to stable effects.
CONCLUSION: Therefore, we suggest assessing MT and account for it as a measure 
for general cortical TMS susceptibility, even if TMS is applied outside the 
motor domain.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0024836
PMCID: PMC3182987
PMID: 21980359 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.