[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: low-level laser therapy wound healing pain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: low-level laser therapy wound healing pain]

80. Lasers Med Sci. 2019 Aug;34(6):1115-1124. doi: 10.1007/s10103-018-02701-4.
Epub  2018 Dec 13.

Low-level laser therapy versus trunk stabilization exercises on sternotomy 
healing after coronary artery bypass grafting: a randomized clinical trial.

Helmy ZM(1), Mehani SHM(2), El-Refaey BH(1), Al-Salam EHA(3), Felaya EEE(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physical Therapy for Internal Medicine, Faculty of Physical 
Therapy, Cairo University, Giza, Egypt.
(2)Department of Physical Therapy for Internal Medicine, Faculty of Physical 
Therapy, Beni-Suef University, Benisuef Elgadata, Street No. 18, Beni-Suef 
governorate, 62511, Egypt. sherinhassin@yahoo.com.
(3)Department of Diagnostic Imaging, National Heart Institute, Giza, Egypt.

The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of low-level laser therapy 
(LLLT) versus trunk stabilization exercises on sternotomy healing following 
coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) surgery. Forty-five male patients who had 
acute sternal instability post-CABG surgery in the age range of 45-65 years were 
divided randomly into three equal groups (n = 15). The laser group received 
LLLT, while the exercise group received trunk stabilization exercises. The 
control group only received a routine cardiac rehabilitation programme, which 
was also provided to both the laser and the exercise groups. All groups were 
offered 12 sessions over 4 weeks. Sternal separation, median sternotomy 
photographic analysis, pain and activities of daily living (ADL) performance 
were evaluated pre- and post-treatment. Statistical significance was set at 
P < 0.05. There was a significant decrease among the laser group in 
upper-sternal separation, while the exercise and control groups showed a 
non-significant decrease. In terms of mid-sternal separation, laser and exercise 
groups showed a significant decrease while the control group showed a 
non-significant decrease. In terms of lower-sternal separation, the exercise 
group showed a significant decrease, while the laser and control groups showed a 
non-significant decrease. Post-treatment between-groups analysis showed a 
significant difference only among the laser and control groups with regard to 
upper-sternal separation, while analysis of the laser, exercise and control 
groups in the case of upper-sternal separation and the between-groups comparison 
in terms of mid- and lower-sternal separation revealed no significant 
differences. LLLT and trunk stabilization exercises were found to be the most 
effective methods for sternotomy healing post-CABG surgery, with LLLT offering 
superior performance in the case of the upper sternum while trunk stabilization 
exercises were more effective for the lower sternum.

DOI: 10.1007/s10103-018-02701-4
PMID: 30547261 [Indexed for MEDLINE]