[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: laser dermatology skin treatment tattoo hair | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: laser dermatology skin treatment tattoo hair]

2. Clin Dermatol. 2015 Mar-Apr;33(2):197-206. doi: 
10.1016/j.clindermatol.2014.10.011.

Laser treatment of periocular skin conditions.

Yates B(1), Que SK(1), D'Souza L(1), Suchecki J(2), Finch JJ(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, University of Connecticut Health Center, 21 South 
Road, Farmington, Connecticut.
(2)Division of Ophthalmology, University of Connecticut Health Center, 
Department of Surgery, 263 Farmington Avenue, Farmington, Connecticut.
(3)Department of Dermatology, University of Connecticut Health Center, 21 South 
Road, Farmington, Connecticut. Electronic address: finch@uchc.edu.

Advances in laser technology in recent decades have increased the options for 
the treatment of dermatologic conditions of the eye and eyelid. Benign tumors 
can be laser-ablated with relative ease, and vascular and melanocytic lesions 
can be precisely targeted with modern lasers. In this contribution, we review 
treatment of periocular pigmented lesions, including melanocytic nevi and nevus 
of Ota; vascular lesions including telangiectasias, port wine stains, and 
infantile hemangiomas; hair removal; eyeliner tattoo removal; laser ablation of 
common benign periocular tumors, such as syringomas, xanthelasma, milia, and 
seborrheic keratoses; and laser resurfacing. The recent advent of fractionated 
laser technology has resulted in dramatically decreased healing times for 
periocular skin resurfacing and fewer adverse effects. Fractionated laser 
resurfacing has now nearly supplanted traditional full-field laser resurfacing, 
and safe treatment of rhytides on the thin skin of the eyelids is possible. 
Proper eye protection is, of course, essential when using lasers near the eye. 
Patient preparation, safety precautions, and risks--intraocular and 
extraocular--are discussed herein. As laser technology continues to advance, we 
are sure to see improvements in current treatments, as well as development of 
new applications of cutaneous lasers.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clindermatol.2014.10.011
PMID: 25704939 [Indexed for MEDLINE]