[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: laser tissue interaction ablation photothermal | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: laser tissue interaction ablation photothermal]

39. Biomaterials. 2013 Aug;34(26):6239-48. doi:
10.1016/j.biomaterials.2013.04.066.  Epub 2013 May 23.

Graphene oxide mediated delivery of methylene blue for combined photodynamic and 
photothermal therapy.

Sahu A(1), Choi WI, Lee JH, Tae G.

Author information:
(1)School of Materials Science and Engineering and Department of Nanobio 
Materials and Electronics, Gwangju Institute of Science and Technology, Buk-gu, 
Gwangju, Republic of Korea.

Nano graphene oxide sheet (nanoGO) was non-covalently functionalized with 
Pluronic block copolymer and complexed with methylene blue, a hydrophilic and 
positively charged photosensitizer, via electrostatic interaction for combined 
photodynamic-photothermal therapy of cancer. Pluronic coating of nanoGO ensured 
its stability in biological fluids. NanoGO plays dual role of a photothermal 
material as well as a delivery agent for photosensitizer. The release of the 
photosensitizer from nanoGO surface was pH-dependent and an acidic condition 
increased the release rate considerably. This nanocomplex showed enhanced uptake 
by cancer cells than normal cells and in the absence of light it showed no major 
toxicity towards the cells. In contrast, when irradiated with selective NIR 
laser lights, it induced significant cell death. Intravenous injection of the 
complex into tumor bearing mice showed high tumor accumulation, and when the 
tumors were exposed to NIR lights, it caused total ablation of tumor tissue 
through the combined action of photodynamic and photothermal effects. This work 
shows the potential of nanoGO for synergistic combination phototherapy of tumor 
in vivo.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biomaterials.2013.04.066
PMID: 23706688 [Indexed for MEDLINE]