[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: low-level laser therapy wound healing pain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: low-level laser therapy wound healing pain]

67. Photomed Laser Surg. 2016 Nov;34(11):580-584. doi: 10.1089/pho.2016.4149.

Beneficial Effects of Applying Low-Level Laser Therapy to Surgical Wounds After 
Bariatric Surgery.

Ojea AR(1)(2), Madi O(1), Neto RM(2), Lima SE(2), de Carvalho BT(2), Ojea MJ(2), 
Marcos RL(1), da Silva FS(2), Zamuner SR(1), Chavantes MC(1).

Author information:
(1)1 Graduation and Post-Graduation in Medicine, University Nove de Julho , Sao 
Paulo, Brazil .
(2)2 Conjunto Hospitalar do Mandaqui , São Paulo, Brazil .

BACKGROUND: Bariatric surgery is a successful method for weight loss in cases of 
morbid obesity; however, as an invasive procedure, surgical complications may 
occur. Low-level laser therapy (LLLT) has been increasingly used due to its 
effectiveness in controlling the inflammatory response, accelerating tissue 
repair, and reducing pain. The objective of this study was to investigate 
photobiomodulation effects after bariatric surgery and determine the laser 
actions during the inflammatory process, wound healing (clinical observation), 
and analgesia.
METHODS: This study was a randomized, placebo-controlled, clinical trial in 
which 85 patients underwent Roux en-Y gastric bypass (RYGB) by conventional 
techniques (i.e., open surgery). Patients were divided into two groups and were 
irradiated with LLLT at 10 different points through the surgical scar in three 
sessions of applications: the laser group (laser-on) consisted of 43 patients 
who received the CW diode laser (MMOptics), while the placebo group (laser-off) 
consisted of 42 patients who were treated by the same protocol but with a 
disabled laser. Temperature was measured by a digital thermometer in both 
groups, and pain was evaluated using the visual analogue scale for pain. 
Biochemical analysis and digital images were used to document and evaluate the 
inflammatory response as well as tissue repair process at the surgical wound 
site.
RESULTS: Patients in the laser group demonstrated diminished wound temperature 
as erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) compared with the placebo group, 
indicating better inflammatory process control as well as improved wound healing 
and reduced pain.
CONCLUSIONS: LLLT applied with the described protocol led to a decrease by 
biochemical markers and wound temperature compared with the placebo, which 
indicated that LLLT was able to control the inflammatory process; in addition, 
seroma and pain were reduced and cicatrization was improved by this preventive 
procedure.

DOI: 10.1089/pho.2016.4149
PMID: 27841968 [Indexed for MEDLINE]