[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS neurology | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS neurology]

5. Neurologia (Engl Ed). 2023 Jul-Aug;38(6):427-439. doi: 
10.1016/j.nrleng.2020.07.025. Epub 2023 Apr 7.

Effects of transcranial direct current stimulation and transcranial magnetic 
stimulation in patients with fibromyalgia. A systematic review.

Conde-Antón Á(1), Hernando-Garijo I(2), Jiménez-Del-Barrio S(3), Mingo-Gómez 
MT(4), Medrano-de-la-Fuente R(5), Ceballos-Laita L(6).

Author information:
(1)Clinical Research in Health Sciences Group, Department of Surgery, 
Ophthalmology, Otorhinolaryngology, and Physical Therapy, Faculty of Health 
Sciences, University of Valladolid, Soria, Spain. Electronic address: 
angelaacf7@gmail.com.
(2)Clinical Research in Health Sciences Group, Department of Surgery, 
Ophthalmology, Otorhinolaryngology, and Physical Therapy, Faculty of Health 
Sciences, University of Valladolid, Soria, Spain. Electronic address: 
Ignacio.hernando@uva.es.
(3)Clinical Research in Health Sciences Group, Department of Surgery, 
Ophthalmology, Otorhinolaryngology, and Physical Therapy, Faculty of Health 
Sciences, University of Valladolid, Soria, Spain. Electronic address: 
sandra.jimenez.barrio@uva.es.
(4)Clinical Research in Health Sciences Group, Department of Surgery, 
Ophthalmology, Otorhinolaryngology, and Physical Therapy, Faculty of Health 
Sciences, University of Valladolid, Soria, Spain. Electronic address: 
tmingo@cir.uva.es.
(5)Clinical Research in Health Sciences Group, Department of Surgery, 
Ophthalmology, Otorhinolaryngology, and Physical Therapy, Faculty of Health 
Sciences, University of Valladolid, Soria, Spain. Electronic address: 
Ricardo.medrano@uva.es.
(6)Clinical Research in Health Sciences Group, Department of Surgery, 
Ophthalmology, Otorhinolaryngology, and Physical Therapy, Faculty of Health 
Sciences, University of Valladolid, Soria, Spain. Electronic address: 
luis.ceballos@uva.es.

BACKGROUND: Fibromyalgia syndrome (FM) is a chronic pathology characterised by 
widespread pain commonly associated with psychological distress affecting 
quality of life. In recent years, transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) 
and transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) have been investigated to treat 
chronic pain. The aim of the current review is to determine the effects of tDCS 
and TMS on the main symptoms of patients with FM.
DEVELOPMENT: A systematic review based on PRISMA guidelines was carried out. The 
search strategy was performed in MEDLINE, SCOPUS, PEDro and Cochrane Library. 
Randomised controlled trials based on the effects of tDCS and TMS on pain, 
pressure pain threshold (PPT), fatigue, anxiety and depression, catastrophising 
and quality of life in patients with FM were analysed. Fourteen studies were 
included.
CONCLUSIONS: The application of tDCS to the motor cortex is the only 
intervention shown to decrease pain in the short and medium-term in patients 
with FM. The application of both interventions showed improvements in PPT, 
catastrophising and quality of life when applied to the motor cortex, and in 
fatigue when applied to the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex. The effects of these 
interventions on anxiety and depression are unclear.

Copyright © 2020 Sociedad Española de Neurología. Published by Elsevier España, 
S.L.U. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.nrleng.2020.07.025
PMID: 37031798 [Indexed for MEDLINE]