[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: History of electromagnetic theory | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# History of electromagnetic theory — Overview

that the hadrons were composed of fractionally charged quarks. With the establishment of quantum chromodynamics in the 1970s finalized a set of fundamental and exchange particles, which allowed for the establishment of a "standard model" based on the mathematics of gauge invariance, which successfully described all forces except for gravity, and which remains generally accepted within the domain to which it is designed to be applied. The 'standard model' groups the electroweak interaction theory and quantum chromodynamics into a structure denoted by the gauge group SU(3)×SU(2)×U(1). The formulation of the unification of the electromagnetic and weak interactions in the standard model is due to Abdus Salam, Steven Weinberg and, subsequently, Sheldon Glashow. After the discovery, made at CERN, of the existence of neutral weak currents, mediated by the  boson foreseen in the standard model, the physicists Salam, Glashow and Weinberg received the 1979 Nobel Prize in Physics for their electroweak theory. Since then, discoveries of the bottom quark (1977), the top quark (1995), tau neutrino (2000) and the Higgs boson (2012) have given credence to the Standard Model. 21st century

Electromagnetic technologies 
There are a range of emerging energy technologies. By 2007, solid state micrometer-scale electric double-layer capacitors based on advanced superionic conductors had been for low-voltage electronics such as deep-sub-voltage nanoelectronics and related technologies (the 22 nm technological node of CMOS and beyond). Also, the nanowire battery, a lithium-ion battery, was invented by a team led by Dr. Yi Cui in 2007. Magnetic resonance 
Reflecting the fundamental importance and applicability of Magnetic resonance imaging in medicine, Paul Lauterbur of the University of Illinois at Urbana–Champaign and Sir Peter Mansfield of the University of Nottingham were awarded the 2003 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine for their "discoveries concerning magnetic resonance imaging". The Nobel citation acknowledged Lauterbur's insight of using magnetic field gradients to determine spatial localization, a discovery that allowed rapid acquisition of 2D images. Wireless electricity 

Wireless electricity is a form of wireless energy transfer, the ability to provide electrical energy to remote objects without wires. The term WiTricity was coined in 2005 by Dave Gerding and later used for a project led by Prof. Marin Soljačić in 2007. The MIT researchers successfully demonstrated the ability to power a 60 watt light bulb wirelessly, using two 5-turn copper coils of 60 cm (24 in) diameter, that were 2 m (7 ft) away, at roughly 45% efficiency. This technology can potentially be used in a large variety of applications, including consumer, industrial, medical and military. Its aim is to reduce the dependence on batteries. Further applications for this technology include transmission of information—it would not interfere with radio waves and thus could be used as a cheap and efficient communication device without requiring a license or a government permit. Unified theories 

A Grand Unified Theory (GUT) is a model in particle physics in which, at high energy, the electromagnetic force is merged with the other two gauge interactions of the Standard Model, the weak and strong nuclear forces. Many candidates have been proposed, but none is directly supported by experimental evidence. GUTs are often seen as intermediate steps towards a  "Theory of Everything" (TOE), a putative theory of theoretical physics that fully explains and links together all known physical phenomena, and, ideally, has predictive power for the outcome of any experiment that could be carried out in principle. No such theory has yet been accepted by the physics community. Open problems 

The magnetic monopole in the quantum theory of magnetic charge started with a paper by the physicist Paul A.M. Dirac in 1931. The detection of magnetic monopoles is an open problem in experimental physics. In some theoretical models, magnetic monopoles are unlikely to be observed, because they are too massive to be created in particle accelerators, and also too rare in the Universe to enter a particle detector with much probability. After more than twenty years of intensive research, the origin of high-temperature superconductivity is still not clear, but it seems that instead of electron-phonon attraction mechanisms, as in conventional superconductivity, one is dealing with genuine electronic mechanisms (e.g. by antiferromagnetic correlations), and instead of s-wave pairing, d-wave pairings are substantial. One goal of all this research is room-temperature superconductivity. See also 
Histories History of electromagnetic spectrum, History of electrical engineering, History of Maxwell's equations, History of radio, History of optics, History of physics
General Biot–Savart law, Ponderomotive force,  Telluric currents, Terrestrial magnetism, ampere hours, Transverse waves, Longitudinal waves, Plane waves, Refractive index,  torque, Revolutions per minute, Photosphere, Vortex, vortex rings,
Theory permittivity, scalar product, vector product,  tensor, divergent series, linear operator, unit vector, parallelepiped, osculating plane, standard candle
 Technology Solenoid, electro-magnets, Nicol prisms, rheostat, voltmeter, gutta-percha covered wire, Electrical conductor, ammeters, Gramme machine, binding posts, Induction motor, Lightning arresters, Technological and industrial history of the United States, Western Electric Company,
 Lists Outline of energy development
 Timelines  Timeline of electromagnetism, Timeline of luminiferous aether

References 

Citations and notes

Attribution

Bibliography 
 Bakewell, F.