[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: graphene biomedical applications toxicity review | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: graphene biomedical applications toxicity review]

31. J Mater Chem B. 2016 Dec 28;4(48):7813-7831. doi: 10.1039/c6tb02086k. Epub
2016  Nov 21.

Graphene and graphene-based nanocomposites: biomedical applications and 
biosafety.

Pattnaik S (1), Swain K , Lin Z .

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutics, Formulation Development and Drug Delivery 
Systems, Pharmacy College Saifai, UP University of Medical Sciences, Saifai, 
India. saty3000@yahoo.com.

Graphene is the first carbon-based two dimensional atomic crystal and has gained 
much attention since its discovery by Geim and co-workers in 2004. Graphene 
possesses a large number of material parameters such as superior mechanical 
stiffness, strength and elasticity, very high electrical and thermal 
conductivity, among many others. It is the strongest and the most stretchable 
known material, which has the record thermal conductivity and very high 
intrinsic mobility, as well as being completely impermeable. Numerous favorable 
properties of graphene make it a potential promising material for applications 
in biomedicine. A large surface area, chemical purity and the possibility for 
its easy functionalization allow graphene to provide opportunities for drug 
delivery. Its unique mechanical properties suggest applications in tissue 
engineering and regenerative medicine. However, like other nanomaterials, 
graphene may pose a bio-hazard. In this article, we present a systematic review 
on the synthesis of graphene, various approaches for the fabrication of 
nanocomposites of graphene and their applications in biomedicine. A very 
detailed review is presented on how graphene and its nanocomposites are 
currently exploited for drug delivery, cancer therapy, gene delivery, biosensing 
and regenerative medicine. Finally, the safety and toxicity associated with 
graphene are also discussed.

DOI: 10.1039/c6tb02086k
PMID: 32263772