[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS neurology | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS neurology]

19. Vet Clin North Am Equine Pract. 2022 Aug;38(2):189-211. doi: 
10.1016/j.cveq.2022.04.002. Epub 2022 Jul 7.

Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation and Transcranial Electrical Stimulation in 
Horses.

Journée HL(1), Journée SL(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, University of Groningen, Univ Med Center 
Groningen, Hanzeplein 1, Groningen 9713 GZ, the Netherlands; Department of 
Orthopedics, Univ Utrecht, Univ Med Ctr Utrecht, PO-box 85500 NL-3508 GA, 
Utrecht, Netherlands. Electronic address: hljournee@gmail.com.
(2)Equine Diagnostics, Tergracht 2A, Wijns 9091 BG, the Netherlands; Research 
Group of Comparative Physiology, Department of Translational Physiology, 
Infectiology and Public Health, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Ghent 
University, Merelbeke, Belgium.

Depending on the localization of the lesion, spinal cord ataxia is the most 
common type of ataxia in horses. Most prevalent diagnoses include cervical 
vertebral stenotic myelopathy (CVSM), equine protozoal myeloencephalitis (EPM), 
trauma and equine degenerative myeloencephalopathy (EDM). Other causes of ataxia 
and weakness are associated with infectious causes, trauma and neoplasia. A 
neurologic examination is indispensable to identify the type of ataxia. In 
addition, clinical neurophysiology offers tools to locate functional 
abnormalities in the central and peripheral nervous system. Clinical EMG 
assessment looks at the lower motoneuron function (LMN) and is used to 
differentiate between neuropathy in peripheral nerves, which belong to LMNs and 
myopathy. As LMNs reside in the spinal cord, it is possible to grossly localize 
lesions in the myelum by muscle examination. Transcranial (tc) stimulation 
techniques are gaining importance in all areas of medicine to assess the motor 
function of the spinal cord along the motor tracts to the LMNs. Applications in 
diagnostics, intraoperative neurophysiological monitoring (IONM), and evaluation 
of effects of treatment are still evolving in human medicine and offer new 
challenges in equine medicine. Tc stimulation techniques comprise transcranial 
magnetic stimulation (TMS) and transcranial electrical stimulation (TES). TMS 
was first applied in horses in 1996 by Mayhew and colleagues and followed by 
TES. The methods are exchangeable for clinical diagnostic assessment but show a 
few differences. An outline is given on the principles, current clinical 
diagnostic applications and challenging possibilities of muscle evoked 
potentials (MEP) from transcranial stimulation in horses.

Copyright © 2022 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cveq.2022.04.002
PMID: 35811197 [Indexed for MEDLINE]