[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: ethnobotany traditional medicine biological activi | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: ethnobotany traditional medicine biological activity]

1. J Ethnopharmacol. 2016 Jul 21;188:204-28. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2016.05.010. Epub
 2016 May 7.

Melissa officinalis L. - A review of its traditional uses, phytochemistry and 
pharmacology.

Shakeri A(1), Sahebkar A(2), Javadi B(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacognosy, School of Pharmacy, Mashhad University of 
Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran.
(2)Biotechnology Research Center, Mashhad University of Medical Sciences, 
Mashhad, Iran; Metabolic Research Centre, Royal Perth Hospital, School of 
Medicine and Pharmacology, University of Western Australia, Perth, Australia.
(3)Department of Traditional Pharmacy, School of Pharmacy, Mashhad University of 
Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran. Electronic address: javadib@mums.ac.ir.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Melissa officinalis L. is a medicinal plant that 
has long been used in different ethno-medical systems especially in the European 
Traditional Medicine and the Iranian Traditional Medicine for the treatment of 
several diseases. It is also widely used as a vegetable and to add flavor to 
dishes
AIM OF THE REVIEW: This review aimed to provide a summary on the botanical 
characterization, traditional uses, phytochemistry, pharmacological activities, 
pharmacokinetics and toxicity of M. officinalis, and discusses research gaps and 
future opportunities for investigations on this plant.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We extensively reviewed major unpublished old texts, and 
published and electronic literature on traditional medicines of different 
regions of the world to find traditional uses of M. officinalis. Electronic 
databases including Web of Science, PubMed, ScienceDirect, Google Scholar and 
Scopus were searched to find articles (published between 1956 and 2015) on 
pharmacology and phytochemistry of M. officinalis.
RESULTS: Traditional uses of M. officinalis have been recorded mostly in 
European countries, Mediterranean region and Middle East countries. 
Phytochemical investigations revealed that this plant contains volatile 
compounds, triterpenoids, phenolic acids and flavonoids. Crude extracts and pure 
compounds isolated from M. officinalis exhibited numerous pharmacological 
effects, from which only anxiolytic, antiviral and antispasmodic activities of 
this plant as well as its effects on mood, cognition and memory have been shown 
in clinical trials. AChE inhibitory activity, stimulation of the acetylcholine 
and GABAA receptors, as well as inhibition of matrix metallo proteinase-2 are 
the main mechanisms proposed for the widely discussed neurological effects of 
this plant.
CONCLUSIONS: Modern pharmacological studies have now validated many traditional 
uses of M. officinalis. The data reviewed here revealed that M. officinalis is a 
potential source for the treatment of a wide range of diseases especially 
anxiety and some other CNS disorders, though confirmatory trials are warranted 
to substantiate these effects in the clinical setting. Data regarding many 
aspects of this plant such as mechanisms of actions, pharmacokinetics, adverse 
effects of the extracts, potential interactions with standard-of-care 
medications and active compounds is still limited which call for additional 
studies particularly in humans.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2016.05.010
PMID: 27167460 [Indexed for MEDLINE]