[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS neurology | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS neurology]

81. Sleep Med. 2020 Jul;71:124-134. doi: 10.1016/j.sleep.2019.12.009. Epub 2019
Dec  24.

Contribution of transcranial magnetic stimulation in restless legs syndrome: 
pathophysiological insights and therapeutical approaches.

Nardone R(1), Sebastianelli L(2), Versace V(2), Brigo F(3), Golaszewski S(4), 
Pucks-Faes E(5), Saltuari L(6), Trinka E(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Franz Tappeiner Hospital, Merano, Italy; Department 
of Neurology, Christian Doppler Klinik, Paracelsus Medical University, Salzburg, 
Austria; Spinal Cord Injury and Tissue Regeneration Center, Salzburg, Austria; 
Karl Landsteiner Institut für Neurorehabilitation und Raumfahrtneurologie, 
Salzburg, Austria. Electronic address: raffaele.nardone@asbmeran-o.it.
(2)Department of Neurorehabilitation, Hospital of Vipiteno, Vipiteno, Italy; 
Research Unit for Neurorehabilitation South Tyrol, Bolzano, Italy.
(3)Department of Neurology, Franz Tappeiner Hospital, Merano, Italy; Department 
of Neuroscience, Biomedicine and Movement Science, University of Verona, Italy.
(4)Department of Neurology, Christian Doppler Klinik, Paracelsus Medical 
University, Salzburg, Austria; Karl Landsteiner Institut für Neurorehabilitation 
und Raumfahrtneurologie, Salzburg, Austria.
(5)Department of Neurology, Hochzirl Hospital, Zirl, Austria.
(6)Department of Neurorehabilitation, Hospital of Vipiteno, Vipiteno, Italy; 
Research Unit for Neurorehabilitation South Tyrol, Bolzano, Italy; Department of 
Neurology, Hochzirl Hospital, Zirl, Austria.
(7)Department of Neurology, Christian Doppler Klinik, Paracelsus Medical 
University, Salzburg, Austria; Centre for Cognitive Neurosciences Salzburg, 
Salzburg, Austria; University for Medical Informatics and Health Technology, 
UMIT, Hall in Tirol, Austria.

Comment in
    Sleep Med. 2020 Jul;71:122-123. doi: 10.1016/j.sleep.2020.02.002.

Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) may offer a reliable means to 
characterize significant pathophysiologic and neurochemical aspects of restless 
legs syndrome (RLS). Namely, TMS has revealed specific patterns of changes in 
cortical excitability and plasticity, in particular dysfunctional inhibitory 
mechanisms and sensorimotor integration, which are thought to be part of the 
pathophysiological mechanisms of RLS rather than reflect a non-specific 
consequence of sleep architecture alteration. If delivered repetitively, TMS is 
able to transiently modulate the neural activity of the stimulated and connected 
areas. Some studies have begun to therapeutically use repetitive TMS (rTMS) to 
improve sensory and motor disturbances in RLS. High-frequency rTMS applied over 
the primary motor cortex or the supplementary motor cortex, as well as 
low-frequency rTMS over the primary somatosensory cortex, seem to have transient 
beneficial effects. However, further studies with larger patient samples, 
repeated sessions, an optimized rTMS setup, and clinical follow-up are needed in 
order to corroborate preliminary results. Thus, we performed a systematic search 
of all the studies that have used TMS and rTMS techniques in patients with RLS.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.sleep.2019.12.009
PMID: 32088150 [Indexed for MEDLINE]