[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: List of essential oils | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# List of essential oils — Overview

to people with certain enzyme deficiencies. Pre-mixed pastes are considered dangerous, primarily due to adulterants. Helichrysum oil Hickory nut oil Horseradish oil Hyssop Jasmine oil, used for its flowery fragrance. Juniper berry oil, used as a flavor. Lavender oil, used primarily as a fragrance. Ledum Lemon oil, similar in fragrance to the fruit. Unlike other essential oils, lemon oil is usually cold pressed. Used in cosmetics. Lemongrass. Lemongrass is a highly fragrant grass from India. The oil is very useful for insect repellent. Lime
 Litsea cubeba oil, lemon-like scent, often used in perfumes and aromatherapy. Linalool
 Mandarin
 Marjoram
 Manuka oil
 Melissa oil (Lemon balm), sweet smelling oil
 Mentha arvensis oil, mint oil, used in flavoring toothpastes, mouthwashes and pharmaceuticals,  as well as in aromatherapy. Moringa oil, can be used directly on the skin and hair. It can also be used in soap and as a base for other cosmetics. Mountain Savory
 Mugwort oil, used in ancient times for medicinal and magical purposes. Currently considered to be a neurotoxin. Mustard oil, containing a high percentage of allyl isothiocyanate or other isothiocyanates, depending on the species of mustard
 Myrrh oil, warm, slightly musty smell. Myrtle
 Neem oil or neem tree oil
 Neroli is produced from the blossom of the bitter orange tree. Nutmeg oil
 Orange oil, like lemon oil, cold pressed rather than distilled. Consists of 90% d-Limonene. Used as a fragrance, in cleaning products and in flavoring foods. Oregano oil, contains thymol and carvacrol
 Orris oil is extracted from the roots of the Florentine iris (Iris florentina), Iris germanica and Iris pallida. It is used as a flavouring agent, in perfume, and medicinally. Palo Santo
 Parsley oil, used in soaps, detergents, colognes, cosmetics and perfumes, especially men's fragrances. Patchouli oil, very common ingredient in perfumes. Perilla essential oil, extracted from the leaves of the perilla plant. Contains about 50–60% perillaldehyde. Pennyroyal oil, highly toxic. It is abortifacient and can even in small quantities cause acute liver and lung damage. Peppermint oil
 Petitgrain
 Pine oil, used as a disinfectant, and in aromatherapy. Ravensara
 Red Cedar
 Roman Chamomile
 Rose oil, distilled from rose petals, used primarily as a fragrance. Rosehip oil, distilled from the seeds of the Rosa rubiginosa or Rosa mosqueta. Rosemary oil, distilled from the flowers of Rosmarinus officinalis. Rosewood oil, used primarily for skin care applications. Sage oil,

 Sandalwood oil, used primarily as a fragrance, for its pleasant, woody fragrance. Sassafras oil, from sassafras root bark. Used in aromatherapy, soap-making, perfumes, and the like. Formerly used as a spice, and as the primary flavoring of root beer, inter alia. Sassafras oil is heavily regulated in the United States due to its high safrole content. Savory oil, from Satureja species. Used in aromatherapy, cosmetic and soap-making applications. Schisandra oil
 Spearmint oil, often used in flavoring mouthwash and chewing gum, among other applications. Spikenard
 Spruce oil
 Star anise oil, highly fragrant oil using in cooking. Also used in perfumery and soaps, has been used in toothpastes, mouthwashes, and skin creams. 90% of the world's star anise crop is used in the manufacture of Tamiflu, a drug used to treat influenza, and is hoped to be useful for avian flu
 Tangerine
 Tarragon oil, distilled from Artemisia dracunculus
 Tea tree oil, extracted from Melaleuca alternifolia. Thyme oil
 Tsuga belongs to the pine tree family. Turmeric, used to flavor food. Valerian
 Warionia, used as a perfume ingredient 
 Vetiver oil (khus oil) a thick, amber oil, primarily from India. Used as a fixative in perfumery, and in aromatherapy. Western red cedar
 Wintergreen 
 Yarrow oil
 Ylang-ylang

See also
 Eau de Cologne
 Perfume

Books
 Julia Lawless, The Illustrated Encyclopedia of Essential Oils: The Complete Guide to the Use of Oils in Aromatherapy and Herbalism () 1995
The Complete Book of Essential Oils & Aromatherapy

References 

Essential oils