[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: optical coherence tomography retinal diagnosis | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: optical coherence tomography retinal diagnosis]

27. Retin Cases Brief Rep. 2019 Fall;13(4):348-351. doi: 
10.1097/ICB.0000000000000603.

SWEPT-SOURCE OPTICAL COHERENCE TOMOGRAPHY ANGIOGRAPHY IN RICKETTSIAL RETINITIS.

Kahloun R(1), Jelliti B(1), Ksiaa I(1), Ben Amor H(1), Zaouali S(1), Lupidi 
M(2), Ben Yahia S(1), Khairallah M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Fattouma Bourguiba University Hospital, Faculty 
of Medicine, University of Monastir, Monastir, Tunisia.
(2)Department of Biochemical and Surgical Sciences, Section of Ophthalmology, 
University of Perugia, Perugia, Italy.

PURPOSE: To report optical coherence tomography angiography findings in a 
patient with rickettsial retinitis.
METHODS: A 29-year-old man complaining of acute blurring vision in the right eye 
associated with Rickettsia conorii infection underwent a comprehensive ocular 
examination, fluorescein angiography, spectral-domain optical coherence 
tomography, and swept-source optical coherence tomography angiography.
RESULTS: Funduscopy showed two large areas of retinitis in the inferior macula 
along the distribution of the inferotemporal artery with associated retinal 
hemorrhages, retinal edema, and serous retinal detachment. Fluorescein 
angiography showed early hypofluorescence and late staining of white retinal 
lesions and associated adjacent retinal vascular leakage and optic disc 
hyperfluorescence. Optical coherence tomography angiography showed hypointense 
dark areas in the superficial capillary plexus and larger hypointense areas in 
the deep capillary plexus, outer retina, and choriocapillaris layer. The patient 
was treated with doxycycline and prednisone. Six weeks after presentation, 
retinal changes seen at the acute phase had resolved, leading to mild residual 
retinal pigment epithelial changes. Fluorescein angiography showed retinal 
capillary nonperfusion within areas of resolved retinitis. Spectral-domain 
optical coherence tomography findings included inner retinal atrophy, 
intraretinal cysts, and disruption of ellipsoid zone and interdigitation zone. 
Swept-source optical coherence tomography angiography showed well-delineated 
hypointense greyish areas of retinal capillary nonperfusion in both the 
superficial and deep capillary plexuses. Visual field testing revealed the 
presence of a corresponding paracentral defect.
CONCLUSION: Optical coherence tomography angiography may be a valuable 
noninvasive imaging technique for detecting and analyzing occlusive 
complications associated with rickettsial retinitis.

DOI: 10.1097/ICB.0000000000000603
PMID: 28614137 [Indexed for MEDLINE]