[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: optical coherence tomography retinal diagnosis | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: optical coherence tomography retinal diagnosis]

45. Acta Ophthalmol. 2019 Nov;97(7):660-664. doi: 10.1111/aos.14138. Epub 2019
May  17.

Vascular dysfunction in retinitis pigmentosa.

Lang M(1), Harris A(1), Ciulla TA(2), Siesky B(1), Patel P(1), Belamkar A(1), 
Mathew S(1), Verticchio Vercellin AC(3).

Author information:
(1)Eugene and Marilyn Glick Eye Institute, Department of Ophthalmology, Indiana 
University School of Medicine, Indianapolis, Indiana.
(2)Retina Service, Midwest Eye Institute, Indianapolis, Indiana, USA.
(3)IRCCS - Fondazione Bietti, Rome, Italy.

The relationship between ocular haemodynamics and retinitis pigmentosa (RP) has 
not been fully understood. Reductions in blood flow have been established in RP 
patients by a variety of studies; however, questions have yet to be answered 
regarding the role of vascular dysfunction in photoreceptors (PR) degeneration, 
the causes of vascular dysfunction in RP, as well as the diagnostic, prognostic 
and perhaps therapeutic potential of measuring ocular haemodynamics in RP 
patients. While significant evidence supports the theory that vascular 
dysfunction is associated with but not the cause of PR death in retinitis 
pigmentosa, evidence suggests that vascular abnormalities in the foveal and 
parafoveal regions may exacerbate cone cell loss. Additional evidence 
demonstrates that vascular dysfunction likely results from changes in metabolic 
demand due to death of PR cells in the retina. Detection and monitoring of 
ocular blood flow, retinal oxygen saturation, endothelin-1 levels and vascular 
structural abnormalities could provide diagnostic, prognostic and therapeutic 
potential for patients with RP.

© 2019 Acta Ophthalmologica Scandinavica Foundation. Published by John Wiley & 
Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/aos.14138
PMID: 31099494 [Indexed for MEDLINE]