[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: Abd al-Rahman al-Kawakibi | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Abd al-Rahman al-Kawakibi — Overview

also believed that the Arabs were united unlike other Muslims and that there was no racial or sectarian segregation among Arabs. He stated that Arabs were, “of all nations the most suitable to be an authority in religion and an example to the Muslims; the other nations have followed their guidance at the start and will not refuse to follow them now.” According to Elizabeth F. Thompson, a historian of social movements and liberal constitutionalism in the Middle East at American University in Washington D.C., Al-Kawakibi's thoughts on Islamic democracy influenced an entire generation of Arab reformers. Al-Kawakibi published a newspaper in his hometown, Aleppo, that promoted equal rights for Armenians, Christians, and Jews. The truest expression of Islamic politics was democracy, Al-Kawakibi claimed, as long as it was based on the brotherhood and unity of Arabs regardless of religion and ethnicity. Al-Kawakibi believed that there were a few reasons beyond the Ottoman's influence for the decline of Muslims at the time period. He believed that imitation (taqlid) caused the Muslims to be stagnant when it came to their religion and other forms of knowledge. Instead, of continuously trying to interpret the Quran and hadiths, Muslims relied on interpretations from centuries ago. Other reasons for the decline of Muslims were he believed, that Muslims abandoned Islamic values and relied on superstitions, and also that they disregarded science and, by extension, were not able to keep up with modern society. However, Al-Kawakibi noted that the tyrannical nature of regimes was the root cause of the struggle of Arabs. The Ottomans prohibiting Arabs from education and imposing foreign rules, established in Istanbul, on Arabs under the control of the Ottoman empire only elevated the position of the Turks and kept the other Muslims, especially Arabs in the dark. He believed that religion was used as an excuse by the Ottomans to unfairly rule over Arabs and other Muslims without understanding the cultural and local customs. Al-Kawakibi additionally believed that Mecca should be the capital of the Islamic world, not Istanbul. He was a proponent of historical Arab exceptionalism as the founding location of Islam. He believed that the rightful Caliph should come from the Quraysh tribe as Prophet Muhammad did. His book Umm Al Qura (The Mother of Villages) reflects these ideas. His book contained a fictional story of an Islamic conference taking place in Mecca, thus illustrating the importance of Mecca to the Islamic world. Criticism
Al-Kawakibi's ideas were controversial to some. His critics alleged that he was a proponent of socialism. According to author Charles Tripp, the idea of “Islamic socialism” was advocated by Al-Kawakibi. Islamic socialism is the belief that the Quran permits redistribution of wealth, although that point is disputed by many Muslim scholars. Another common criticism was that Al-Kawakibi disregarded Islam as the focal point of one's life and marginalized the religion because he believed that Caliphs should have no real political power, but be a spiritual guide. However, that criticism seems to have been unfounded, as Al-Kawakibi was, in writing and action, a very religious man. Legacy
Although Al-Kawakibi did not have a tremendous amount of support during his lifetime, his ideas influenced entire future generations of Arab reformers and leaders, such as Faisal I, the king of the Arab Kingdom of Syria or Greater Syria in 1920 and King of Iraq from 23 August 1921 until his death. Additionally, Al-Kawakibi's message and legacy passed onto Pan-Arab nationalists such as Gamal Abdel Nasser, even though Al-Kawakibi was not a Pan-Arab nationalist but instead believed in Arab unity and solidarity. According to the contemporary Lebanese historian, social commentator, and writer, Gan Dayah, Al-Kawakibi was a Muslim political pioneer due to his ideas championing the separation of state and religion. The Kawaakibi Foundation is named after him. Kawakibi's great-grandson, Salam Kawakibi, is a Paris-based intellectual and the director of the Arab Centre for Research and Policy Studies, who has co-published a collection of Kawakibi's essays "On Despotism" in French. For their virulent attacks on 'Abdul Hamid II and the autocratic rule of the Ottomans, ‘Abd al-Rahman al-Kawakibi, alongside the Syrian Islamic reformer Sayyid Rashid Rida (d. 1935), remain influential cultural icons in pan-Arab circles. Death
Al-Kawakibi died in 1902 and many of his family and supporters alleged that he had been poisoned by Turkish agents. However, this has never been proven. Following Al-Kawakibi's death, the Ottomans were able to confiscate and destroy all but two books, The Nature of Tyranny and Umm Al-Qura, written by Al-Kawakibi. References

 Goldschmidt, Arthur and Lawrence Davidson. A Concise History of the Middle East, Eighth edition. pages 207–208. Westview Press: Boulder, Colorado 2005. Haim, Sylvia, ed. "Arab Nationalism: An Anthology" Berkeley: University of California Press, 1962.