[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: Fiber-optic cable | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Fiber-optic cable — Overview

companies may overbuild their networks for the specific purpose of having a large network of dark fiber for sale, reducing the overall need for trenching and municipal permitting. Alternatively, they may deliberately under-invest to prevent their rivals from profiting from their investment. Reliability and quality Optical fibers are very strong, but the strength is drastically reduced by unavoidable microscopic surface flaws inherent in the manufacturing process. The initial fiber strength, as well as its change with time, must be considered relative to the stress imposed on the fiber during handling, cabling, and installation for a given set of environmental conditions. There are three basic scenarios that can lead to strength degradation and failure by inducing flaw growth: dynamic fatigue, static fatigues, and zero-stress aging. Telcordia GR-20, Generic Requirements for Optical Fiber and Optical Fiber Cable, contains reliability and quality criteria to protect optical fiber in all operating conditions. The criteria concentrate on conditions in an outside plant (OSP) environment. For the indoor plant, similar criteria are in Telcordia GR-409, Generic Requirements for Indoor Fiber Optic Cable. Cable types

 OFC: Optical fiber, conductive
 OFN: Optical fiber, nonconductive
 OFCG: Optical fiber, conductive, general use
 OFNG: Optical fiber, nonconductive, general use
 OFCP: Optical fiber, conductive, plenum
 OFNP: Optical fiber, nonconductive, plenum
 OFCR: Optical fiber, conductive, riser
 OFNR: Optical fiber, nonconductive, riser
 OPGW: Optical fiber composite overhead ground wire
 ADSS: All-dielectric self-supporting
 OSP:  Fiber optic cable, outside plant
 MDU:  Fiber optics cable, multiple dwelling unit

Jacket material
The jacket material is application-specific. The material determines the mechanical robustness, chemical and UV radiation resistance, and so on. Some common jacket materials are LSZH, polyvinyl chloride, polyethylene, polyurethane, polybutylene terephthalate, and polyamide. Fiber material
There are two main types of material used for optical fibers: glass and plastic. They offer widely different characteristics and find uses in very different applications. Generally, plastic fiber is used for very short-range and consumer applications, whereas glass fiber is used for short/medium-range (multi-mode) and long-range (single-mode) telecommunications. Color coding

Patch cords
The buffer or jacket on patchcords is often color-coded to indicate the type of fiber used. The strain relief "boot" that protects the fiber from bending at a connector is color-coded to indicate the type of connection. Connectors with a plastic shell (such as SC connectors) typically use a color-coded shell. Standard color codings for jackets (or buffers) and boots (or connector shells) are shown below:

Remark: It is also possible that a small part of a connector is additionally color-coded, e.g. the lever of an E-2000 connector or a frame of an fiber-optic adapter. This additional color coding indicates the correct port for a patchcord, if many patchcords are installed at one point. Multi-fiber cables
Individual fibers in a multi-fiber cable are often distinguished from one another by color-coded jackets or buffers on each fiber. The identification scheme used by Corning Cable Systems is based on EIA/TIA-598, "Optical Fiber Cable Color Coding" which defines identification schemes for fibers, buffered fibers, fiber units, and groups of fiber units within outside plant and premises optical fiber cables. This standard allows for fiber units to be identified by means of a printed legend. This method can be used for identification of fiber ribbons and fiber subunits. The legend will contain a corresponding printed numerical position number or color for use in identification. The color code used above resembles PE copper cables used in standard telephone wiring. In the UK a different color code is followed. Each 12-fiber bundle or element within a Cable Optical Fibre 200/201 cable is colored as follows:

Each element is in a tube within the cable (not a blown fiber tube) The cable elements start with the red tube and are counted around the cable to the green tube. Active elements are in white tubes and yellow fillers or dummies are laid in the cable to fill it out depending on how many fibers and units exists – can be up to 276 fibers or 23 elements for external cable and 144 fibers or 12 elements for internal. The cable has a central strength member normally made from fiberglass or plastic. There is also a copper conductor in external cables. Propagation speed and delay
Optical cables transfer data at the speed of light in glass. This is the speed of light in vacuum divided by the refractive index of the glass used,  typically around 180,000 to 200,000 km/s, resulting in 5.0 to 5.5 microseconds of latency per km. Thus the round-trip delay time for 1000 km is around 11 milliseconds. Losses
Signal loss in optic fiber is measured in decibels (dB).