[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: magnetic resonance spectroscopy metabolite brain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: magnetic resonance spectroscopy metabolite brain]

43. Syst Rev. 2019 Dec 27;8(1):338. doi: 10.1186/s13643-019-1256-5.

Magnetic resonance spectroscopy across chronic pain disorders: a systematic 
review protocol synthesising anatomical and metabolite findings in chronic pain 
patients.

Levins KJ(1), Drago T(2), Roman E(2), Martin A(2), King R(2), Murphy P(1), 
Gallagher H(1), Barry D(3), O'Hanlon E(2), Roddy DW(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anaesthesia, Intensive Care and Pain Medicine, St. Vincent's 
University Hospital, Dublin 4, Ireland.
(2)Trinity College Institute of Neuroscience, Trinity College Dublin, Lloyd 
Building, Dublin 2, Ireland.
(3)Department of Anatomy, Trinity Biomedical Sciences Institute, Trinity College 
Dublin, Dublin 2, Ireland.
(4)Trinity College Institute of Neuroscience, Trinity College Dublin, Lloyd 
Building, Dublin 2, Ireland. dwroddy@tcd.ie.

BACKGROUND: Chronic pain is pain greater than 3 months duration that may result 
from disease, trauma, surgery, or unknown origin. The overlap between the 
psychological, behavioural, and management aspects of pain suggest that limbic 
brain neurochemistry plays a role in chronic pain pathology. Proton magnetic 
resonance spectroscopy (1H-MRS) can evaluate in vivo brain metabolites including 
creatine, N-acetylaspartate, myo-inositol, choline, glutamate, glutamine, and 
gamma-aminobutyric acid in chronic pain; however, a comprehensive systemic 
review of metabolite expression patterns across all brain areas has yet to be 
performed.
METHODS AND ANALYSIS: Online databases including PubMed/MEDLINE, Google Scholar, 
EMBASE, the Cochrane Library, OVID, and PsycINFO will be searched for articles 
relating to 1H-MRS and chronic pain. Study inclusion criteria will include ages 
of between 18 and 65 years with a definite diagnosis of chronic pain, no 
comorbidities, clearly stated brain volumes of interest, and imaging protocols, 
with comparisons to healthy controls. Two reviewers will extract data relating 
to volumes of interest, metabolites, study participant demographics, diagnostic 
method and pain scores, treatments and duration of treatment, scanner 
information, 1H-MRS acquisition protocols, and spectral processing software. 
Where possible, volumes of interest will be reassigned as regions of interest 
consistent with known regional anatomical and functional properties to increase 
the power and relevance of the analysis. Statistical analyses will then be 
conducted using STATA. A central common pathway may exist for chronic pain due 
to the behavioural manifestations and management similarities between its 
different types. The goal of this systemic review is to generate a comprehensive 
neurochemical theory of chronic pain in different brain compartments.
SYSTEMATIC REVIEW REGISTRATION: This study is registered with PROSPERO 
CRD42018112640.

DOI: 10.1186/s13643-019-1256-5
PMCID: PMC6935150
PMID: 31882014 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.