[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: biomaterial implant osseointegration titanium clin | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: biomaterial implant osseointegration titanium clinical]

74. BMC Oral Health. 2025 May 27;25(1):808. doi: 10.1186/s12903-025-06110-2.

Mechanical and biological properties of 3D-printed porous titanium scaffolds 
coated with composite growth factors.

Jiang C(#)(1), Gong G(#)(2), Xiao S(1), Zhang S(1), Chen D(1), Song S(3), Dai 
H(1), Wu C(4), Zou Q(1), Li J(5), Wen B(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Stomatology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Nanchang 
University, Nanchang, Jiangxi, 330000, China.
(2)Department of Stomatology, The Affiliated Stomatological Hospital of Jiujiang 
University, Jiujiang, Jiangxi, 332000, China.
(3)Department of Stomatology, The Fifth Hospital of Xiamen, Xiamen, 361000, 
China.
(4)Department of Stomatology, Jiangxi Provincial People's Hospital, Nanchang, 
Jiangxi, 330000, China.
(5)Department of Stomatology, Shanghai Pudong Hospital, Shanghai, 200135, China.
(6)Department of Stomatology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Nanchang 
University, Nanchang, Jiangxi, 330000, China. wenbing69@163.com.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Osseointegration is considered a prerequisite for predicting implant 
success, and structure, biocompatibility, and properties of the implant are 
important parts of the factors that influence osseointegration. The focus of 
current research is on how to increase the strength of osseointegration on the 
implant and shorten the osseointegration time.
METHODS: In this research, different porous scaffolds, including uniform, 
radial-gradient, and axial-gradient porous, were designed and fabricated. Their 
mechanical properties and biocompatibility were comprehensively evaluated 
through mechanical tests and in vitro cellular experiments. A porous scaffold 
exhibiting optimal properties was identified through preliminary experiments. 
Subsequently, three different sets of composite scaffolds were developed, 
consisting of the selected scaffold modified with chitosan microspheres loaded 
with Bone Morphogenetic Protein-2 (BMP-2), Platelet-Derived Growth Factor-BB 
(PDGF-BB), or a combination of both. The biological responses to composite 
scaffolds were systematically examined through in vitro and in vivo experiments.
RESULTS: Finite element analysis indicated that the maximum equivalent stress of 
all three porous implants was lower than that of solid implants, while the 
maximum equivalent stress in the cortical bone of the porous group was higher 
than in the solid group. Compression tests confirmed that the elastic modulus of 
all three porous scaffold structures fall within the range of natural human 
bone. In vitro cell experiments showed that the radial gradient porous group 
scaffolds had the highest cell count and Alkaline phosphatase activity. The 
composite scaffolds exhibited superior wettability and water absorption 
properties compared to the non-coated scaffolds. Cell and animal experiments 
demonstrated that the titanium scaffolds co-modified with BMP-2 and PDGF-BB 
showed greater cell proliferation and new bone formation compared to scaffolds 
with single-factor coatings and uncoated scaffolds.
CONCLUSIONS: Radial-gradient porous scaffolds exhibit compatible elastic 
modulus, excellent cell compatibility, and osteogenic potential, making them 
promising candidates for bone tissue engineering applications in dentistry. 
Furthermore, the composite scaffolds incorporating BMP-2 and PDGF-BB-loaded 
chitosan microspheres demonstrated enhanced osteogenic differentiation compared 
to single-factor modified porous scaffolds, providing experimental evidence for 
the clinical application of novel implants.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12903-025-06110-2
PMCID: PMC12107813
PMID: 40426159 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Institutional review board 
statement: The experiment was approved by the Experimental Animal Welfare Ethics 
Committee of the First Affiliated Hospital of Nanchang University (ethical 
approval number: CDYFY-IACUC-202308QR025). We obtained informed consent from the 
owners of the animals for the use of these animals in the study. All methods 
were carried out following relevant guidelines and regulations. Consent for 
publication: Not Applicable. Competing interests: The authors declare no 
competing interests.