[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: cannabis cannabidiol therapeutic epilepsy pain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: cannabis cannabidiol therapeutic epilepsy pain]

30. FP Essent. 2021 Jun;505:28-34.

Integrative Medicine: Cannabis and Cannabis-Related Drugs.

Moss DA(1), Hawks MK(2), Snyder MJ(1), Crawford PF 3rd(2).

Author information:
(1)99th MDG, Nellis Air Force Base, 4700 Las Vegas Blvd North, Las Vegas, NV 
89191.
(2)F. Edward Hébert School of Medicine at the Uniformed Services University of 
the Health Sciences, 4301 Jones Bridge Road, Bethesda, MD 20814.

Cannabis is a genus of flowering herbs in the Cannabaceae family. Federal law 
defines dried plant material preparations of the subspecies Cannabis sativa as 
marijuana. The term cannabis refers to all products derived from Cannabis 
plants. The active compounds in cannabis are cannabinoids, which include 
delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and cannabidiol (CBD). THC is the 
psychoactive component, whereas CBD has no psychoactive effects. There are three 
Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-approved cannabis-related drugs. Dronabinol 
and nabilone (Cesamet) are approved for chemotherapy-induced nausea and 
vomiting; cannabidiol (Epidiolex) is approved for two pediatric epilepsy 
syndromes. FDA-approved cannabis-related drugs, marijuana, and cannabis 
formulations have been studied for the management of other conditions and 
symptoms (eg, cachexia, chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting, chronic pain, 
muscle spasticity) and have shown varying effectiveness. CBD formulations have 
been shown to be effective for certain forms of epilepsy. However, marijuana, 
cannabis-containing products, and cannabis-derived products in general are not 
approved by the FDA for any indication. Adverse effects include impaired 
executive function, cognition, and driving. Physicians can recommend use of 
marijuana under medical marijuana laws but cannot prescribe it, as it is 
classified as a Schedule I controlled substance. Laws regulating use of 
marijuana and cannabis products vary among states.

PMID: 34128629 [Indexed for MEDLINE]