[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: laser surgery LASIK corneal refractive outcome | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: laser surgery LASIK corneal refractive outcome]

37. Trans Am Ophthalmol Soc. 2016 Aug;114:T1.

A Large-Scale Computational Analysis of Corneal Structural Response and Ectasia 
Risk in Myopic Laser Refractive Surgery.

Dupps WJ Jr(1), Seven I(2).

Author information:
(1)Cole Eye Institute, Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, Ohio.
(2)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Lerner Research Institute, Cleveland 
Clinic, Cleveland, Ohio, Tranplant Center, Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, Ohio, 
Department of Biomedical Engineering, Case School of Engineering and Case 
Western Reserve University School of Medicine, Cleveland, Ohio.

Comment in
    J Cataract Refract Surg. 2019 Apr;45(4):391-393. doi: 
10.1016/j.jcrs.2019.03.006.

PURPOSE: To investigate biomechanical strain as a structural susceptibility 
metric for corneal ectasia in a large-scale computational trial.
METHODS: A finite element modeling study was performed using retrospective 
Scheimpflug tomography data from 40 eyes of 40 patients. LASIK and PRK were 
simulated with varied myopic ablation profiles and flap thickness parameters 
across eyes from LASIK candidates, patients disqualified for LASIK, subjects 
with atypical topography, and keratoconus subjects in 280 simulations. Finite 
element analysis output was then interrogated to extract several risk and 
outcome variables. We tested the hypothesis that strain is greater in known 
at-risk eyes than in normal eyes, evaluated the ability of a candidate strain 
variable to differentiate eyes that were empirically disqualified as LASIK 
candidates, and compared the performance of common risk variables as predictors 
of this novel susceptibility marker across multiple virtual subjects and 
surgeries.
RESULTS: A candidate susceptibility metric that expressed mean strains across 
the anterior residual stromal bed was significantly higher in eyes with 
confirmed ectatic predisposition in preoperative and all postoperative cases 
(P≤.003). The strain metric was effective at differentiating normal and at-risk 
eyes (area under receiver operating characteristic curve ≥ 0.83, P≤.002), was 
highly correlated to thickness-based risk metrics (as high as R(2) = 95%, P<.001 
for the percent of stromal tissue altered (PSTA)), and predicted large portions 
of the variance in predicted refractive response to surgery (R(2) = 57%, 
P<.001).
CONCLUSIONS: This study represents the first large-scale 3-dimensional 
structural analysis of ectasia risk and provides a novel biomechanical construct 
for expressing structural risk in refractive surgery. Mechanical strain is an 
effective marker of known ectasia risk and correlates to predicted refractive 
error after myopic photoablative surgery.

PMCID: PMC5015699
PMID: 27630372 [Indexed for MEDLINE]