[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: Herbals: Their Origin and Evolution — Arber | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Herbals: Their Origin and Evolution — Arber — Overview

of the prisoners saved by the Kearsarge may be taken--Captain Semmes hauled down his flag immediately after being informed by his chief engineer that the water was putting out the fires; and, within a few minutes, the water gained so rapidly on the vessel that her bow rose slowly in the air, and half her guns obtained a greater elevation than they had ever known previously. It is unfortunate to find such cheap-novel
style of writing in a paper which at some future period may be referred to
as an authoritative chronicler of events now transpiring. It would be too long a task to notice all the numerous misstatements of
private individuals, and of the English and French press in reference to
this action: the best mode is to give the facts as they occurred, leaving
the public to judge by internal evidence on which side the truth exists. Within a few days of the fight, the writer of these pages crossed from
London to Cherbourg for the purpose of obtaining by personal examination
full and precise information in reference to the engagement. It would seem
as though misrepresentation, if not positive falsehood, were inseparable
from everything connected with the Alabama, for on reaching the French
naval station he was positively assured by the people on shore that
nobody was permitted to board the Kearsarge. Preferring, however, to
substantiate the truth of these allegations, from the officers of the
vessel themselves, he hired a boat and sailed out to the sloop, receiving
on his arrival an immediate and polite reception from Captain Winslow and
his gallant subordinates. During the six days he remained at Cherbourg, he
found the Kearsarge open to the inspection, above and below, of any and
everybody who chose to visit her; and he frequently heard surprise
expressed by English and French visitors alike that representations on
shore were so inconsonant with the truth of the case. I found the Kearsarge lying under the guns of the French ship-of-the-line
"Napoleon," two cables' length from that vessel, and about a mile and a
half from the harbour; she had not moved from that anchorage since
entering the port of Cherbourg, and no repairs whatever had been effected
in her hull since the fight. I had thus full opportunity to examine the
extent of her damage, and she certainly did not look at all like a vessel
which had just been engaged in one of the hottest conflicts of modern
times. SIZE OF THE TWO VESSELS. The Kearsarge, in size, is by no means the terrible craft represented by
those who, for some reason or other, seek to detract from the honour of
her victory; she appeared to me a mere yacht in comparison with the
shipping around her, and disappointed many of the visitors who came to
see her. The relative proportions of the two antagonists were as
follows:--

                               ALABAMA. KEARSARGE. Length over all               220 ft. 232    ft. "    of keel               210  "          198-1/2 "
  Beam                           32  "           33     "
  Depth                          17  "           16-1/2 "
  Horse power, 2 engines of 300 each            400 h. p. Tonnage                     1,040           1,031[1]

The Alabama was a barque-rigged screw propeller, and the heaviness of her
rig, and, above all, the greater size and height of her masts would give
her the appearance of a much larger vessel than her antagonist. The masts
of the latter are disproportionately low and small; she has never carried
more than top-sail yards, and depends for her speed upon her machinery
alone. It is to be questioned whether the Alabama, with all her reputation
for velocity, could, in her best trim, outsteam her rival. The log book of
the Kearsarge, which I was courteously permitted to examine, frequently
shows a speed of upwards of fourteen knots the hour, and her engineers
state that her machinery was never in better working order than at the
present time. I have not seen engines more compact in form, nor,
apparently, in finer condition; looking in every part as though they were
fresh from the workshop, instead of being, as they, are, half through the
third year of the cruise. Ships-of-war, however, whatever may be their tonnage, are nothing more
than platforms for carrying artillery. The only mode by which to judge of
the strength of the two vessels is in comparing their armaments; and
herein we find the equality of the antagonist as fully exemplified as in
the respective proportions of their hulls and steam-power. The armaments
of the Alabama and Kearsarge were are as follows:

    ARMAMENT OF THE ALABAMA. One 7-inch Blakely rifle. One 8-inch smooth-bore (68-pounder). Six 32-pounders. ARMAMENT OF THE KEARSARGE. Two 11-inch smooth-bore guns. One 30-pounder rifle. Four 32-pounders. It will therefore be seen that the Alabama had the advantage of the
Kearsarge--at all events in the number of her guns; whilst the weight of
the latter's broadside was only some 20 per cent.