[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Propulsion Mechanics | Topic: George Mueller (engineer) | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# George Mueller (engineer) — Overview

champion a "space shuttle". He did not invent the term, but he made it his own. He was also a keen proponent of space stations and was well aware that the Space Shuttle was to shuttle to and from such a station. While in London in August 1968, to receive an award from the British Interplanetary Society, he again trumpeted the cause of the shuttle, "... there is a real requirement for an efficient earth to orbit transportation system – an economical space shuttle". "I forecast that the next major thrust in space will be the development of an economical launch vehicle for shuttling between Earth and the installations, such as the orbiting space station that will soon be orbiting in space." He also stated, as many others would do later, that "The shuttle ideally would be able to operate in a mode similar to that of a large commercial air transports and be compatible with the environment of major airports". Mueller's optimism grew in 1968 and he chided Wernher von Braun (who had been cautiously promoting a cheap interim shuttle-type craft), "You'd be telling me that my Shuttle was in the future and you needed an interim system." Mueller was sure that the incoming president, Richard Nixon, would want to go "all out" and that "this may be the big program for Nixon". In 1987 Mueller had this to say about the shuttle, "It was clear to us at that time that we needed to have a joint program between the Air Force and NASA, and that that program ought to be aimed at providing low cost space transportation for all of our needs. It's just in my view unfortunate that we made the compromise, after I left NASA, in terms of a partially reusable vehicle, and all that that implies in terms of not only the cost of the throw-away parts but also the cost of the ground troops that have to process it and put it together and fly it every time. That combination—and ground support is a not insignificant part of a Shuttle cost—was a set of decisions that doomed low cost space transportation for that generation of vehicles."

Mueller's working style 
Almost everyone who worked with Mueller on Apollo agreed he was technically brilliant and exceedingly capable. Even those who frequently disagreed with him like Christopher Kraft or George Low recognized his abilities. While Mueller could be described as intellectually arrogant he was not an office tyrant; one of his colleagues, John Disher, describes working for him as a "piece of cake". Nor did he try to belittle others or shout them down. While appearing affable and reasonably charming "with the epitome of politeness, but you know down deep he's just as hard as steel!". Resignation from NASA
Mueller resigned from NASA on November 10, 1969, effective from December 10. Rumors had been circulating for a while that he wanted to return to private industry. The New York Times stated that 'informed sources' "alleged clashes with (Administrator) Thomas Paine over space priorities for '70s and disputes with subordinates; he has twice been passed over for deputy admr post". In an interview Mueller gave different reasons for leaving, "One is that the decision had been made to terminate the Apollo program, and that was a good time then to leave before, and let someone else take over for the next phase. From a practical point of view, I needed to go make some money so I could keep my family going. It was costly for us to join the Apollo program. My salary was half what I was making in industry when I went there, and it was just a strain to keep the family going and work going at the same time. So I went back to industry."

After a short time at General Dynamics, Mueller became chairman and president of the System Development Corporation, a spin-off from the RAND Corporation, in 1971. He remained with SDC following the Burroughs Corporation's acquisition of the company, and retired after growing the company successfully in 1984. While at SDC, Mueller married his second wife, Darla. After a short retirement, Mueller became the president of the International Academy of Astronautics, in addition to consulting and other volunteer work. Yearning to return to full-time employment, he became the CEO of Kistler Aerospace in 1996 and remained with the company for a number of years. Post NASA career 
 Senior vice president of General Dynamics Corporation, Falls Church, Virginia (1969–1971)
 System Development Corporation, Santa Monica, California
Chairman, president (1971–1980)
Chairman, chief executive officer (1981–1983)
Burroughs Corporation
Senior vice-president (1982–1983)
Consultant (1984 – date unknown)
Kistler Aerospace (Rocketplane Kistler from 2006)
CEO 1995–2004
Chairman and chief vehicle architect 2004

Mueller died of congestive heart failure in Irvine, California, on October 12, 2015, at the age of 97. Awards and honors 
 1970, National Medal of Science
 1972, Golden Plate Award of the American Academy of Achievement

References 
Specific

General
 Murray, C. and Cox, C.B. (2004). Apollo. Pages 151–162.