[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Propulsion Mechanics | Topic: Buran (spacecraft) | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Buran (spacecraft) — Overview

to ESA's Spacelab were designed based on the 37K design. These modules had to be both compartments to conduct experiments and logistics volume, could be mounted either in the payload bay and connected to the crew cabin via tunnel or be temporarily docked to Mir's Kristall radial docking port. On Buran maiden flight, the Accessory Unit () 37KB No.37070 was installed into the orbiter's payload bay. It carried recording equipment and accumulators providing power to onboard systems as the regular fuel cells based power system were not ready at the time. The second unit, 37KB No.37071 was built in 1987. It was planned to build a third unit, 37KB No.37072, but this never happened because of programme cancellation. Propulsion 

Orbital maneuvering is provided by the Joint Propulsion System (). Automatic landing system 
The automatic landing system is capable of performing a fully automatic descent, approach and landing from any point located in the "admissible starting conditions area" at  altitude, controlling the orbiter's flight during the descent. Covering  during the approach and eventually slowing down from  to zero. The first Buran flight was notable for the automatic landing system electing to perform an unlikely (estimated 3% probability) manoeuvre at the  key point, which was needed to extend the glide distance and bleed excessive energy. The standard approach was from the south and consisted of two left turns onto the final approach course. Instead, it performed additional turns in both directions and overflew the field to its northern side, before making a right turn back onto the final course. The landing system elected to perform the manoeuvre as the orbiter's energy didn't decrease enough due to strong-gusty winds in the area, measured at  and gusting up to  at ground level. Specifications

The mass of Buran is quoted as 62 tons, with a maximum payload of 30 tons, for a total lift-off weight of 92 tons. Mass breakdown
 Total mass of structure and landing systems: 
 Mass of functional systems and propulsion: 
 Maximum payload: 
 Maximum liftoff weight: 

Dimensions
 Length: 
 Wingspan: 
 Height on gear: 
 Payload bay length: 
 Payload bay diameter: 
 Wing chine sweep: 78 degrees
 Wing sweep: 45 degrees

Propulsion
 Total orbital manoeuvring engine thrust: 
 Orbital manoeuvring engine specific impulse: 
 Total manoeuvring impulse: unknown
 Total RCS thrust: 
 Average RCS specific impulse: 
 Normal maximum propellant load: 

Unlike the US Space Shuttle, which was propelled by a combination of solid boosters and the orbiter's own liquid-propellant engines fuelled from a large tank, the Soviet/Russian Energia launch system used thrust from each booster's RD-170 liquid oxygen/kerosene engine (each with 4 nozzles), developed by Valentin Glushko, and another four RD-0120 liquid oxygen/liquid hydrogen engines attached to the central block. Operational history

Orbital flight
The only orbital launch of a Buran-class orbiter, 1K1 (first orbiter, first flight) occurred at 03:00:02 UTC on 15 November 1988 from Baikonur Cosmodrome launch pad 110/37. Buran was lifted into space, on an uncrewed mission, by the specially designed Energia rocket. The automated launch sequence performed as specified, and the Energia rocket lifted the vehicle into a temporary orbit before the orbiter separated as programmed. After boosting itself to a higher orbit and completing two orbits around the Earth, the ODU (, Combined Propulsion System) engines fired automatically to begin the descent into the atmosphere, return to the launch site, and horizontal landing on a runway. After making an automated approach to Site 251, Buran touched down under its own control at 06:24:42 UTC and came to a stop at 06:25:24, 206 minutes after launch. Under a crosswind of , Buran landed  laterally and  longitudinally from the target mark. It was the first spaceplane to perform an uncrewed flight, including landing in fully automatic mode. It was later found that Buran had lost eight of its 38,000 thermal tiles over the course of its flight. Projected flights
In 1989, it was projected that Buran would have an uncrewed second flight by 1993, with a duration of 15–20 days. Although the Buran programme was never officially cancelled, the dissolution of the Soviet Union led to funding drying up and this flight never took place. See also

 Buran programme
 List of Buran missions
 OK-GLI – Buran Analog BST-02 test vehicle
 Buran shuttle 1.02 "Ptichka"
 Buran shuttle 2.01 
 Buran shuttle 2.02
 Buran shuttle 2.03

 MAKS (spacecraft) – Soviet air-launched spaceplane concept
 Mikoyan-Gurevich MiG-105 – Soviet spaceplane test program
 Space Shuttle program – American spaceplane program
 Tupolev OOS – Soviet air-launched spaceplane concept

References

Further reading

External links

Buran-class orbiters
Aircraft first flown in 1988
Crewed spacecraft
Man-made disasters in Kazakhstan
Partially reusable space launch vehicles
Rocket-powered aircraft
Soviet inventions
Spacecraft launched by Zenit and Energia rockets
Spacecraft launched in 1988
Tailless delta-wing aircraft
1988 in the Soviet Union
2002 disasters in Kazakhstan
2002 in Kazakhstan