[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: cannabis cannabidiol therapeutic epilepsy pain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: cannabis cannabidiol therapeutic epilepsy pain]

68. J Am Vet Med Assoc. 2024 Sep 5;262(S2):S25-S31. doi:
10.2460/javma.24.06.0360.  Print 2024 Dec 1.

Growing interest but limited evidence on the usefulness of cannabidiol in 
treating ophthalmic disease in dogs: a review.

Henriksen ML(1), McGrath S(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Sciences, College of Veterinary Medicine, North 
Carolina State University, Raleigh, NC.
(2)Department of Clinical Sciences, College of Veterinary Medicine and 
Biomedical Sciences, Colorado State University, Fort Collins, CO.

The 2 most known cannabinoids are Δ9-tetrahydrocannabidiol (THC) and cannabidiol 
(CBD). Both chemicals are extracted from the cannabis plant but can also be 
synthetically produced. Δ9-Tetrahydrocannabidiol is extracted from the 
subspecies of the cannabis plant known as the marijuana plant, which contains a 
high concentration of THC (0.3% to 30%). Δ9-Tetrahydrocannabidiol is a major 
psychoactive and intoxicating component of the cannabis plant and is not 
recommended for use in dogs due to its toxic effect. Cannabidiol is extracted 
from the subspecies of the cannabis plant known as the hemp plant and must 
contain less than 0.3% THC. Cannabidiol is a major nonpsychoactive component of 
the cannabis plant, and its effect has been investigated for epilepsy, 
neoplasia, and osteoarthritis in dogs. Public interest in the medical use of 
cannabinoids for various diseases and disorders has grown in the last couple of 
years. The attention has extended to veterinary medicine, where veterinarians 
and pet owners are curious about what diseases the nontoxic CBD can be used for 
to treat companion animals. The use of CBD for ophthalmic diseases has also been 
investigated due to its anti-inflammatory and neuroprotective effects. 
Intraocular pressure regulation for glaucoma, corneal diseases (eg, keratitis 
and corneal pain), uveal diseases (eg, endotoxin-induced uveitis), and 
retinal/optic nerve head diseases (eg, diabetic retinopathy) are areas where 
CBD's effect has been investigated in humans and animals. The aim of this review 
is to give an update on what is known regarding the use of cannabinoids, 
especially CBD, for ophthalmic diseases in dogs.

DOI: 10.2460/javma.24.06.0360
PMID: 39236742 [Indexed for MEDLINE]