[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: ethnobotany traditional medicine biological activi | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: ethnobotany traditional medicine biological activity]

87. J Ethnopharmacol. 2015 Apr 22;164:147-61. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2015.01.052.
Epub  2015 Feb 7.

Platycodon grandiflorus - an ethnopharmacological, phytochemical and 
pharmacological review.

Zhang L(1), Wang Y(1), Yang D(2), Zhang C(2), Zhang N(2), Li M(3), Liu Y(4).

Author information:
(1)Guangxi Botanical Garden of Medicinal Plants, Nanning 530023, China; Baotou 
Medical College, Baotou, Inner Mongolia 014060, China.
(2)Baotou Medical College, Baotou, Inner Mongolia 014060, China.
(3)Guangxi Botanical Garden of Medicinal Plants, Nanning 530023, China; Baotou 
Medical College, Baotou, Inner Mongolia 014060, China. Electronic address: 
prof_liminhui@yeah.net.
(4)Institute of Medicinal Plant Development, Chinese Academy of Medical Science, 
Beijing 100193, China. Electronic address: yzliu@implad.ac.cn.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Platycodon grandiflorus (Jacq.) A. DC., the sole 
species in genus Platycodon A. DC. (Campanulaceae) has a long history of use as 
a traditional herbal medicine for the treatments of cough, phlegm, sore throat, 
lung abscess, chest pain, dysuria, and dysentery. As a legal medicine and 
dietary supplement, it is also frequently used as an ingredient in health foods 
and vegetable dishes. The aim of this review is to provide up-to-date 
information on the botanical characterization and distribution, 
ethnopharmacology, phytochemistry, pharmacology, and toxicity of Platycodon 
grandiflorus based on literature published in recent years. It will build a 
foundation for further study of the mechanism of action and the development of 
better therapeutic agents and healthy products from Platycodon grandiflorus.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: All of the available information on Platycodon 
grandiflorus was collected via electronic search (using PubMed, SciFinder 
Scholar, CNKI, TPL (www.theplantlist.org), Google Scholar, Baidu Scholar, and 
Web of Science).
RESULTS: A comprehensive analysis of the literature obtained through the 
above-mentioned sources confirmed that ethno-medical uses of Platycodon 
grandiflorus have been recorded in China, Japan, Mongolia, and Korea for 
thousands of years. A phytochemical investigation revealed that this product 
contains steroidal saponins, flavonoids, polyacetylenes, sterols, phenolics, and 
other bioactive compounds. Crude extracts and pure compounds isolated from 
Platycodon grandiflorus exhibited significant anti-inflammatory and 
immunostimulatory effects. They also showed valuable bioactive effects, such as 
anti-tumor, anti-oxidant, anti-diabetic, anti-obesity, hepatoprotective and 
cardiovascular system effects, among others.
CONCLUSIONS: In light of its long traditional use and the modern phytochemical 
and pharmacological studies summarized here, Platycodon grandiflorus has been 
demonstrated to show a strong potential for therapeutic and health-maintaining 
uses. Both the extracts and chemical components isolated from the plant showed a 
wide range of biological activities. Thus, more studies on the pharmacological 
mechanisms of its main active compounds (e.g., platycodin D, D2) need to be 
conducted. In addition, as one of the most popular traditional herbal medicines, 
clinical studies of the main therapeutic aspects, toxicity and adverse effects 
of Platycodon grandiflorus will also undoubtedly be the focus of future 
investigation.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2015.01.052
PMID: 25666431 [Indexed for MEDLINE]