[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: MRI physics image quality artifact reduction | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: MRI physics image quality artifact reduction]

4. Eur Radiol Exp. 2025 Dec 22;9(1):121. doi: 10.1186/s41747-025-00662-2.

Preliminary evaluation of image quality in supine breast MRI using a dedicated 
wearable coil and accelerometer-based motion correction.

Megel A(1)(2), Isaieva K(2), Nohava L(3)(4), Odille F(2)(5), Fauvel M(5), 
Fischer B(2), Laistler E(3)(4), Felblinger J(2)(5), Henrot P(6).

Author information:
(1)Service de radiologie, Institut de Cancérologie de Lorraine Alexis Vautrin, 
Vandoeuvre-les-Nancy, France.
(2)Université de Lorraine, INSERM U1254, IADI, Nancy, France.
(3)High Field MR Center, Center for Medical Physics and Biomedical Engineering, 
Medical University of Vienna, Vienna, Austria.
(4)Christian Doppler Laboratory for Patient-Centered Breast Imaging, Medical 
University of Vienna, Vienna, Austria.
(5)CIC-IT 1433, Université de Lorraine, INSERM, CHRU de Nancy, Nancy, France.
(6)Service de radiologie, Institut de Cancérologie de Lorraine Alexis Vautrin, 
Vandoeuvre-les-Nancy, France. p.henrot@nancy.unicancer.fr.

Supine breast MRI offers easier comparison with other screening methods than the 
prone MRI, but is often impaired by respiratory artifacts. This study aims to 
identify a suitable acceleration technique for motion-corrected supine breast 
MRI with a dedicated wearable coil (BraCoil), and to assess the quality of the 
resulting images. This prospective, single-center study included ten healthy 
female volunteers. Supine breast MRI was acquired using the BraCoil equipped 
with seven accelerometers. The acquisition protocol included unenhanced T1- and 
T2-weighted sequences; 2-, 3-, and 4-fold acceleration, as well as "elliptical 
scanning", were tested for T1-weighted images. Image reconstruction was 
performed using two methods: the manufacturer's standard algorithm and an 
advanced nonrigid motion correction algorithm. The images were compared to each 
other and to conventional prone MRI via radiological scoring. Additionally, 
comparisons were made with supine breast MRI obtained using a multi-purpose 
torso coil reported in previous studies. This study showed that using 2-fold 
acceleration was optimal for motion-corrected supine breast MRI using the 
BraCoil. It also demonstrated that enabling the "elliptical scanning" would 
shorten the measurement time by 33% without compromising image quality. Finally, 
for the data acquired, the BraCoil provides superior motion-corrected image 
quality compared to the torso coil. KEY POINTS: BraCoil image quality 
outperforms the body coil for both uncorrected and motion-corrected images in 
supine acquisition for T1w and T2w sequences. Enabling the "elliptical scanning" 
in T1-weighted sequences does not impair image quality while shortening the 
measurement time by 33% (compared to the same sequence without enabling this 
option). A 2-fold acceleration for the T1-weighted sequence provides sufficient 
scan time reduction, whereas higher acceleration would lead to even shorter scan 
time at the cost of significantly lower image quality.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s41747-025-00662-2
PMCID: PMC12722586
PMID: 41428163 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Ethics approval and consent to participate: Data 
were collected under the approved “EDEN” ethical protocol (ClinicalTrials.gov 
Identifier: NCT05218460), and the study was approved by the institutional 
ethical review committee (CPP SUD-EST IV, 26/07/21). This study was performed in 
line with the principles of the Declaration of Helsinki. Competing interests: 
The authors have no relevant financial or non-financial interests to disclose. 
Consent for publication: Written informed consent was obtained from each 
volunteer.