[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: A Modern Herbal — Mrs. M. Grieve | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# A Modern Herbal — Mrs. M. Grieve — Overview

Descartes to take the simple but crucial step at the beginning of the seventeenth century. The case is interesting for more than one reason. It shows us what is a general form, or law of nature in mathematical shape, and it also illustrates the progress of science as it advances from the most abstract conceptions of number and geometry, to more concrete phenomena such as physics. The formula for refraction which Ptolemy helped to
shape, is geometrical in form. With him, as with the discoverer of the
right angle in a semicircle, the mind was working to find a general
ideal statement under which all similar occurrences might be grouped. Observation, the collection of similar instances, measurement, are all
involved, and the general statement, law or form, when arrived at, is
found to link up other general truths and is then used as a
starting-point in dealing with similar cases in future. Progress in
science consists in extending this mental process to an ever-increasing
area of human experience. We shall see, as we go on, how in the concrete
sciences the growing complexity and change of detail make such
generalizations more and more difficult. The laws of pure geometry seem
to have more inherent necessity and the observations on which they were
originally founded have passed into the very texture of our minds. But
the work of building up, or, perhaps better, of organizing our
experience remains fundamentally the same. Man is throughout both
perceiving and making that structure of truth which is the framework of
progress. Ptolemy's work brings us to the edge of the great break which occurred
in the growth of science between the Greek and the modern world. In the
interval, the period known as the Middle Ages, the leading minds in the
leading section of the human race were engaged in another part of the
great task of human improvement. For them the most incumbent task was
that of developing the spiritual consciousness of men for which the
Catholic Church provided an incomparable organization. But the interval
was not entirely blank on the scientific side. Our system of
arithmetical notation, including that invaluable item the cipher, took
shape during the Middle Ages at the hands of the Arabs, who appear to
have derived it in the main from India. Its value to science is an
excellent object-lesson on the importance of the details of form. Had
the Greeks possessed it, who can say how far they might have gone in
their applications of mathematics? Yet in spite of this drawback the most permanent contribution of the
Greeks to science was in the very sphere of exact measurement where they
would have received the most assistance from a better system of
calculation had they possessed it. They founded and largely constructed
both plane and spherical geometry on the lines which best suit our
practical intelligence. They gave mankind the framework of astronomy by
determining the relative positions of the heavenly bodies, and they
perceived and correctly stated the elementary principles of equilibrium. At all these points the immortal group of men who adopted the Copernican
theory at the Renascence, began again where the Greeks had left off. But
modern science starts with two capital improvements on the work of the
Greeks. Measurement there had been from the first, and the effort to
find the constant thing in the variable flux; and from the earliest days
of the Ionian sages the scientific mind had been endeavouring to frame
the simplest general hypothesis or form which would contain all the
facts. But the moderns advanced decisively, in method, by experimenting
and verifying their hypotheses, and in subject-matter, by applying their
method to phenomena of movement, which may theoretically include all
facts biological as well as physical. Galileo, the greatest founder of
modern science, perfectly exemplifies both these new departures. It is, perhaps, the most instructive and encouraging thing in the whole
annals of progress to note how the men of the Renascence were able to
pick up the threads of the Greeks and continue their work. The texture
held good. Leonardo da Vinci, whose birth coincides with the invention
of the printing-press, is the most perfect reproduction in modern times
of the early Greek sophos, the man of universal interests and capacity. He gave careful and admiring study to Archimedes, the greatest pure man
of science among the Greeks, the one man among them whose works,
including even his letters, have come down to us practically complete. A
little later, at the beginning of the sixteenth century, Copernicus
gained from the Pythagoreans the crude notion of the earth's movement
round a great central fire, and from it he elaborated the theory which
was to revolutionize thought. Another half-century later the works of
Archimedes were translated into Latin and for the first time printed. They thus became well known before the time of Galileo, who also
carefully studied them.