[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: ethnobotany traditional medicine biological activi | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: ethnobotany traditional medicine biological activity]

37. J Ethnopharmacol. 2016 Dec 4;193:546-554. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2016.09.049.
Epub  2016 Sep 28.

Phytochemical and ethnomedicinal study of Huperzia species used in the 
traditional medicine of Saraguros in Southern Ecuador; AChE and MAO inhibitory 
activity.

Armijos C(1), Gilardoni G(2), Amay L(2), Lozano A(3), Bracco F(4), Ramirez J(2), 
Bec N(5), Larroque C(5), Finzi PV(6), Vidari G(7).

Author information:
(1)Universidad Técnica Particular de Loja, Departamento de Química, San Cayetano 
Alto, s/n. AP, 1101608 Loja, Ecuador. Electronic address: cparmijos@utpl.edu.ec.
(2)Universidad Técnica Particular de Loja, Departamento de Química, San Cayetano 
Alto, s/n. AP, 1101608 Loja, Ecuador.
(3)Comunidad de Saraguro, Barrio Illincho, Saraguro, Ecuador.
(4)Dipartimento di Scienze della terra e dell'ambiente, Università degli Studi 
di Pavia, Viale S. Epifanio 14, 27100 Pavia, Italy.
(5)IRCM, Institut de Recherche en Cancérologie de Montpellier, INSERM, U1194, 
Montpellier F-34298, France; Institut régional du Cancer de Montpellier, 
Montpellier F-34298, France; Université de Montpellier, Montpellier F-34090, 
France.
(6)Dipartimento di Chimica e Centro CEMEC, Università degli Studi di Pavia, 
Viale Taramelli 12, 27100 Pavia, Italy.
(7)Dipartimento di Chimica e Centro CEMEC, Università degli Studi di Pavia, 
Viale Taramelli 12, 27100 Pavia, Italy. Electronic address: vidari@unipv.it.

ETHNOBOTANICAL AND ETHNOMEDICINAL RELEVANCE: This study concerns seven Huperzia 
species (Lycopodiaceae), namely H. brevifolia, H. columnaris, H. compacta, H. 
crassa, H. espinosana, H. tetragona, H. weberbaueri, which are considered sacred 
plants by the Saraguro community, living in the Southern Andes of Ecuador; these 
plants are widely used in traditional medicine and ritual ceremonies.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: The plants were selected on the basis of written 
interviews with 10 visionary healers (yachak) (2 women, 8 men), indicated as the 
most credible by the Saraguro Healers Council. The Informant Consensus Factor 
(Fic) was determined. The first phytochemical study of the plants was performed 
by standard procedures, while the AChE and MAO-A inhibition by fractions 
enriched in high MW alkaloids, was measured in vitro.
AIMS OF THE STUDY: i) to investigate the uses of some Huperzia plants in healing 
and magical-religious practices of Saraguros; ii) to identify the main 
components of plant hydromethanolic extracts; iiì) to test the effects of 
alkaloidal fractions on the activity of two enzymes linked to mental health.
RESULTS: All the interviewed Saraguro yachak showed a high consensus about the 
uses of the seven Huperzia plants as purgatives and against supernatural 
diseases, such as the "espanto" (startle). In admixtures with other plants, some 
species also induce a state of trance or hallucinations in participants in 
magical-religious rituals. GC-MS of the volatile alkaloid fractions allowed the 
identification of some lycodine-type and lycopodine-type alkaloids (1-5) in H. 
compacta, H. columnaris, and H. tetragona. The flavones selgin) (6) and tricin 
(7) were isolated from H. brevifolia and H. espinosana. Tricin (7) was also 
detected in the other five species. The rare serratene triterpenes serratenediol 
(8) serratenediol-3-O-acetate (9), 21-episerratenediol (10), and 
21-episerratenediol-3-O-acetate (11) were isolated from H. crassa. In addition, 
the presence of an unprecedented group of high molecular weight alkaloids has 
been determined. Alkaloid fractions of H. brevifolia, H. compacta, H. 
espinosana, and H. tetragona significantly inhibited AChE and MAO-A activities 
in vitro.
CONCLUSIONS: The first phytochemical and ethnopharmacological study of seven 
Huperzia plants, widely used by Saraguro healers, led to the identification of 
several alkaloids and triterpenoids with different remarkable biological 
activities. In addition, alkaloid fractions exhibited a significant AChE and 
MAO-A inhibitory activity. These results may support the use of these plants in 
brews prepared for inducing psychoactive effects in participants in 
magical-religious ceremonies. This study confirms the rich traditional medical 
knowledge of Saraguro healers which must be documented and preserved for future 
generations.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2016.09.049
PMID: 27686269 [Indexed for MEDLINE]