[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: MRI physics image quality artifact reduction | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: MRI physics image quality artifact reduction]

1. Magn Reson Med. 2022 Feb;87(2):764-780. doi: 10.1002/mrm.29036. Epub 2021 Oct
2.

Scan-specific artifact reduction in k-space (SPARK) neural networks synergize 
with physics-based reconstruction to accelerate MRI.

Arefeen Y(1), Beker O(2), Cho J(3), Yu H(4), Adalsteinsson E(1)(5)(6), Bilgic 
B(3)(5)(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, Massachusetts 
Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts, USA.
(2)Computer and Communication Sciences, École Polytechnique Fédérale de 
Lausanne, Lausanne, Switzerland.
(3)Athinoula A. Martinos Center for Biomedical Imaging, Charlestown, 
Massachusetts, USA.
(4)Department of Automation, Tsinghua University, Beijing, China.
(5)Harvard-MIT Health Sciences and Technology, Massachusetts Institute of 
Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts, USA.
(6)Institute for Medical Engineering and Science, Massachusetts Institute of 
Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts, USA.
(7)Department of Radiology, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.

PURPOSE: To develop a scan-specific model that estimates and corrects k-space 
errors made when reconstructing accelerated MRI data.
METHODS: Scan-specific artifact reduction in k-space (SPARK) trains a 
convolutional-neural-network to estimate and correct k-space errors made by an 
input reconstruction technique by back-propagating from the mean-squared-error 
loss between an auto-calibration signal (ACS) and the input technique's 
reconstructed ACS. First, SPARK is applied to generalized autocalibrating 
partially parallel acquisitions (GRAPPA) and demonstrates improved robustness 
over other scan-specific models, such as robust artificial-neural-networks for 
k-space interpolation (RAKI) and residual-RAKI. Subsequent experiments 
demonstrate that SPARK synergizes with residual-RAKI to improve reconstruction 
performance. SPARK also improves reconstruction quality when applied to advanced 
acquisition and reconstruction techniques like 2D virtual coil (VC-) GRAPPA, 2D 
LORAKS, 3D GRAPPA without an integrated ACS region, and 2D/3D wave-encoded 
imaging.
RESULTS: SPARK yields SSIM improvement and 1.5 - 2× root mean squared error 
(RMSE) reduction when applied to GRAPPA and improves robustness to ACS size for 
various acceleration rates in comparison to other scan-specific techniques. When 
applied to advanced reconstruction techniques such as residual-RAKI, 2D 
VC-GRAPPA and LORAKS, SPARK achieves up to 20% RMSE improvement. SPARK with 3D 
GRAPPA also improves RMSE performance by ~2×, SSIM performance, and perceived 
image quality without a fully sampled ACS region. Finally, SPARK synergizes with 
non-Cartesian, 2D and 3D wave-encoding imaging by reducing RMSE between 20% and 
25% and providing qualitative improvements.
CONCLUSION: SPARK synergizes with physics-based acquisition and reconstruction 
techniques to improve accelerated MRI by training scan-specific models to 
estimate and correct reconstruction errors in k-space.

© 2021 International Society for Magnetic Resonance in Medicine.

DOI: 10.1002/mrm.29036
PMCID: PMC8627503
PMID: 34601751 [Indexed for MEDLINE]