[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Complex Circuit Systems | Topic: Microchip Technology | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Microchip Technology — Overview

Lee, was a fabless semiconductor company from Sunnyvale, California that was privately held and developed low-power, embedded Wi-Fi chips. On February 17, 2009, a partnership between ZeroG Wireless and Microchip Technology was announced for the production of ZeroG development kits designed to provide Wi-Fi capabilities for Microchip Technology's PIC microcontrollers. Microchip Technology announced the acquisition of ZeroG Wireless on January 11, 2010, for an undisclosed amount. The deal was intended to enhance Microchip Technology's wireless offerings by providing a Wi-Fi product for their PIC microcontrollers. Silicon Storage Technology (SST)

Silicon Storage Technology, Inc. (SST) was a Sunnyvale, California, United States, technology company producing non-volatile memory devices and related products. SST supplied NOR flash and other integrated circuits for high-volume applications. Bing Yeh co-founded SST in August 1989, and served as its chief executive. Starting in February 2010, private equity firm Cerberus Capital Management and public company Microchip Technology both made offers to acquire SST. In April 2010, Microchip completed the acquisition for about $292M. Microchip sold several SST flash memory assets to Greenliant Systems (founded by Yeh) in May of that year. Ident Technology
Ident Technology AG was a German company that developed capacitive sensing technology. The acquisition of Ident Technology was revealed in Microchip Technology's fourth fiscal quarter (ending March 31, 2012) and full fiscal year financial results. The amount paid for the acquisition was not disclosed. Roving Networks 
Roving Networks was a Los Gatos, California, United States, privately held, fabless semiconductor company that provided embedded low-power Wi-Fi and Bluetooth products, including some that connected to smartphones using the iOS and Android operating systems. In a confidential deal, Microchip Technology announced the acquisition of Roving Networks on April 19, 2012

Standard Microsystems Corporation

Standard Microsystems Corporation manufactured semiconductors including controllers for embedded networking, Ethernet controllers, and flash media cards. In August 2012, Microchip acquired Standard Microsystems Corporation (SMSC). Among SMSC's assets were those it had previously acquired from Symwave, a start-up that specialized in USB 3.0 chips, and two hi-fi wireless audio companies—Kleer Semiconductor and Wireless Audio IP BV. Novocell Semiconductor
Novocell Semiconductor, Inc. offered non-volatile-memory intellectual property. Microchip Technology, through its Silicon Storage Technology (SST) subsidiary, signed a definitive agreement on June 3, 2013, to acquire Novocell Semiconductor. The terms of the agreement are confidential. The acquisition expanded the product portfolio of SST from a focus on high-density memory to also include low-density one-time programmable and multi-time programmable memory. EqcoLogic
EqcoLogic was a privately held, fabless semiconductor company based out of Belgium that was spun out from Vrije Universiteit Brussel and sold equalizer and coaxial transceiver products. Microchip Technology announced the acquisition of EqcoLogic on February 10, 2014. The terms of the acquisition are confidential and were not expected to have a material impact on Microchip Technology's quarterly financials. The acquisition was expected to enhance Microchip Technology's penetration in the automotive and industrial markets for embedded applications. ISSC Technologies

ISSC Technologies (ISSC) was a Taiwan based developer of Bluetooth system on chip products for wireless headset, speaker, connectivity and human interface device products. Microchip Technology announced the signing of a definitive agreement to acquire ISSC on May 22, 2014. The terms of the agreement stipulated that Microchip Technology would acquire all outstanding shares of ISSC for approximately $4.74 per share at a total equity value of about $328.5M and a total enterprise value of about $34.2M after accounting for ISSC's cash and investments. Microchip Technology announced the completion of its tend offer to acquire the outstanding shares of ISSC on July 14, 2014. The ISSC acquisition represents the first major overseas acquisition completed by Microchip Technology and was funded with the use of a portion of Microchip Technology's foreign cash. Supertex
Supertex was a mixed signal semiconductor manufacturer that focused on high voltage analog and mixed signal products for use in the following industries: medical, LED lighting, display, industrial and telecommunications. Microchip Technology announced the execution of a definitive agreement to acquire Supertex, Inc. on February 10, 2014, for $33 per share in cash. The total equity value was $394M and the total enterprise value after excluding Supertex's cash and investments was approximately $148M. The acquisition was expected to expand Microchip Technology's expertise in high voltage analog and mixed signal technologies and reach into the medical, industrial and lighting industries.