[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: natural product antibiotic drug discovery | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: natural product antibiotic drug discovery]

67. Eur J Med Chem. 2021 Nov 15;224:113732. doi: 10.1016/j.ejmech.2021.113732.
Epub  2021 Aug 1.

Natural products against key Mycobacterium tuberculosis enzymatic targets: 
Emerging opportunities for drug discovery.

Cazzaniga G(1), Mori M(1), Chiarelli LR(2), Gelain A(1), Meneghetti F(3), Villa 
S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of Milan, via L. 
Mangiagalli 25, 20133, Milano, Italy.
(2)Department of Biology and Biotechnology "Lazzaro Spallanzani", University of 
Pavia, via A. Ferrata 9, 27100, Pavia, Italy.
(3)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of Milan, via L. 
Mangiagalli 25, 20133, Milano, Italy. Electronic address: 
fiorella.meneghetti@unimi.it.

For centuries, natural products (NPs) have served as powerful therapeutics 
against a variety of human ailments. Nowadays, they still represent invaluable 
resources for the treatment of many diseases, including bacterial infections. 
After nearly three decades since the World Health Organization's (WHO) 
declaration of tuberculosis (TB) as a global health emergency, Mycobacterium 
tuberculosis (Mtb) continues to claim millions of lives, remaining among the 
leading causes of death worldwide. In the last years, several efforts have been 
devoted to shortening and improving treatment outcomes, and to overcoming the 
increasing resistance phenomenon. Nature has always provided a virtually 
unlimited source of bioactive molecules, which have inspired the development of 
new drugs. NPs are characterized by an exceptional chemical and structural 
diversity, the result of millennia of evolutionary responses to various stimuli. 
Thanks to their favorable structural features and their enzymatic origin, they 
are naturally prone to bind proteins and exhibit bioactivities. Furthermore, 
their worldwide distribution and ease of accessibility has contributed to 
promote investigations on their activity. Overall, these characteristics make 
NPs excellent models for the design of novel therapeutics. This review offers a 
critical and comprehensive overview of the most promising NPs, isolated from 
plants, fungi, marine species, and bacteria, endowed with inhibitory properties 
against traditional and emerging mycobacterial enzymatic targets. A selection of 
86 compounds is here discussed, with a special emphasis on their biological 
activity, structure-activity relationships, and mechanism of action. Our study 
corroborates the antimycobacterial potential of NPs, substantiating their 
relevance in future drug discovery and development efforts.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejmech.2021.113732
PMID: 34399099 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.