[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: Mathematical descriptions of the electromagnetic field | Type: Instruction-QA | Level: Graduate]

Question: Provide a comprehensive expert-level explanation of Mathematical descriptions of the electromagnetic field in the context of Applied Sciences.

Answer:
There are various mathematical descriptions of the electromagnetic field that are used in the study of electromagnetism, one of the four fundamental interactions of nature. In this article, several approaches are discussed, although the equations are in terms of electric and magnetic fields, potentials, and charges with currents, generally speaking.

Vector field approach

The most common description of the electromagnetic field uses two three-dimensional vector fields called the electric field and the magnetic field. These vector fields each have a value defined at every point of space and time and are thus often regarded as functions of the space and time coordinates. As such, they are often written as  (electric field) and  (magnetic field).

If only the electric field (E) is non-zero, and is constant in time, the field is said to be an electrostatic field.  Similarly, if only the magnetic field (B) is non-zero and is constant in time, the field is said to be a magnetostatic field.  However, if either the electric or magnetic field has a time-dependence, then both fields must be considered together as a coupled electromagnetic field using Maxwell's equations.

Maxwell's equations in the vector field approach

The behaviour of electric and magnetic fields, whether in cases of electrostatics, magnetostatics, or electrodynamics (electromagnetic fields), is governed by Maxwell-Heaviside's equations:

{| class="toccolours collapsible" width="400px" style="background-color:#ECFCF4; padding:6; cellpadding=6;text-align:left;border:2px solid #50C878"
|-
|text-align="center" colspan="2"|Maxwell's equations (vector fields)
|-
|  ||    Gauss's law
|-
|  ||    Gauss's law for magnetism
|-
|  ||    Faraday's law
|-
|  ||    Ampère–Maxwell law
|}

where ρ is the charge density, which can (and often does) depend on time and position, ε0 is the electric constant, μ0 is the magnetic constant, and J is the current per unit area, also a function of time and position.  The equations take this form with the International System of Quantities.

When dealing with only nondispersive isotropic linear materials, Maxwell's equations are often modified to ignore bound charges by replacing the permeability and permittivity of free space with the permeability and permittivity of the linear material in question.  For some materials that have more complex responses to electromagnetic fields, these properties can be represented by tensors, with time-dependence related to the material's ability to respond to rapid field changes (dispersion (optics), Green–Kubo relations), and possibly also field dependencies representing nonlinear and/or nonlocal material responses to large amplitude fields (nonlinear optics).

Potential field approach

Many times in the use and calculation of electric and magnetic fields, the approach used first computes an associated potential: the electric potential, , for the electric field, and the magnetic vector potential, A, for the magnetic field.  The electric potential is a scalar field, while the magnetic potential is a vector field.  This is why sometimes the electric potential is called the scalar potential and the magnetic potential is called the vector potential.  These potentials can be used to find their associated fields as follows:

Maxwell's equations in potential formulation

These relations can be substituted into Maxwell's equations to express the latter in terms of the potentials. Faraday's law and Gauss's law for magnetism (the homogeneous equations) turn out to be identically true for any potentials. This is because of the way the fields are expressed as gradients and curls of the scalar and vector potentials. The homogeneous equations in terms of these potentials involve the divergence of the curl  and the curl of the gradient , which are always zero. The other two of Maxwell's equations (the inhomogeneous equations) are the ones that describe the dynamics in the potential formulation.

These equations taken together are as powerful and complete as Maxwell's equations.  Moreover, the problem has been reduced somewhat, as the electric and magnetic fields together had six components to solve for.  In the potential formulation, there are only four components: the electric potential and the three components of the vector potential.  However, the equations are messier than Maxwell's equations using the electric and magnetic fields.

Gauge freedom

These equations can be simplified by taking advantage of the fact that the electric and magnetic fields are physically meaningful quantities that can be measured; the potentials are not.  There is a freedom to constrain the form of the potentials provided that this does not affect the resultant electric and magnetic fields, called gauge freedom.  Specifically for these equations, for any choice of a twice-differentiable scalar function of position and time λ, if  is a solution for a given system, then so is another potential  given by:

This freedom can be used to simplify the potential formulation.  Either of two such scalar functions is typically chosen: the Coulomb gauge and the Lorenz gauge.

Coulomb gauge

The Coulomb gauge is chosen in such a way that , which corresponds to the case of magnetostatics.  In terms of λ, this means that it must satisfy the equation

This choice of function results in the following formulation of Maxwell's equations:

Several features about Maxwell's equations in the Coulomb gauge are as follows.  Firstly, solving for the electric potential is very easy, as the equation is a version of Poisson's equation.  Secondly, solving for the magnetic vector potential is particularly difficult. This is the big disadvantage of this gauge.  The third thing to note, and something which is not immediately obvious, is that the electric potential changes instantly everywhere in response to a change in conditions in one locality.

For instance, if a charge is moved in New York at 1 pm local time, then a hypothetical obs