[Domain: Propulsion | Subfield: Aerospace | Topic: Supersonic Free-Jet Combustion in a Ramjet Burner | Type: NASA-TechReport | Level: Expert]

[NASA Technical Reports | Year: ]

Title: Supersonic Free-Jet Combustion in a Ramjet Burner

Abstract:
A new dual-mode ramjet combustor concept intended for operation over a wide flight Mach number range is described. Subsonic combustion mode is similar to that of a traditional ram combustor which allows operation at higher efficiency, and to lower flight Mach numbers than current dual-mode scramjets. High speed mode is characterized by supersonic combustion in a free-jet that traverses the subsonic combustion chamber to a variable nozzle. The maximum flight Mach number of this scheme is governed largely by the same physics as its classical counterpart. Although a variable combustor exit aperture is required, the need for fuel staging to accommodate the combustion process is eliminated. Local heating from shock-boundary-layer interactions on combustor walls is also eliminated. Given the parallel nature of the present scheme, overall flowpath length is less than that of present dual-mode configurations. Cycle analysis was done to define the flowpath geometry for computational fluid dynamics (CFD) analysis, and then to determine performance based on the CFD results. CFD results for Mach 5, 8, and 12 flight conditions indicate stable supersonic free-jet formation and nozzle reattachment, thereby establishing the basic feasibility of the concept. These results also reveal the structure of, and interactions between the free-jet and recirculating combustion chamber flows. Performance based on these CFD results is slightly less than that of the constant-pressure-combustion cycle analysis primarily due to these interactions. These differences are quantified and discussed. Additional CFD results at the Mach 8 flight condition show the effects of nozzle throat area variation on combustion chamber pressure, flow structure, and performance. Calculations with constant temperature walls were also done to evaluate heat flux and overall heat loads. Aspects of the concept that warrant further study are outlined. These include diffuser design, ramjet operation, mode transition, loss mechanisms, and the effects of secondary flow for wall cooling and combustion chamber pressurization. Also recommended is an examination of system-level aspects such as weight, thermal management and rocket integration as well as alternate geometries and variable geometry schemes.