[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: Carlyle House | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Carlyle House — Overview

In April 1755 they came to Carlyle house, and it became the initial headquarters for Major-General Edward Braddock in the Colony of Virginia. On April 15, 1755, was held the Congress of Alexandria in which Braddock met with five colonial governors, Horatio Sharpe (Maryland's governor ), Robert Dinwiddie (Virginia's governor), James De Lancey (New York's governor), William Shirley (Massachusetts' governor), and Robert Hunter Morris (Pennsylvania's governor). They convened in the dining room of the house and here Braddock first suggested the idea of levying additional new taxes on the colonists to help with the cost of the war,and also decided to make an expedition to Fort Duquesne during the French and Indian War. George Washington, who was appointed as major in the provincial militia in February 1753 by Robert Dinwiddie (Virginia's Royal Governor), urged Braddock not to undertake the expedition and became a volunteer aide-de-camp to Braddock. Nevertheless, Braddock decided to undertake the expedition, resulting in the death or injury of two-thirdsrds of Braddock's troops and also in Braddock's own death. Slavery

British colonists used slave force before the colonization, and that increased with the Atlantic slave trade. John Carlyle was a slaveholder, most of them were probably fluent in English and were able to receive instructions and to communicate in English. Carlyle could have inherited them, bought them in Europe, in the market or a nearby plantation in America. Many of John Carlyle's slaves lived and worked in his properties; The Carlyle House, in a foundry located on the same lot as the h,ouse and in his three plantations. When John Carlyle died in 1780, there were nine slaves living at Carlyle House: Moses, Nanny, Jerry, Joe, Cate, Sibreia, Cook, Charles and Penny. In the colonial period, as many as twenty-five slaves might have lived and worked within its walls and in the various outbuildings, the jobs they could have done were:

 Blacksmith (probably joJoesince he had a 35 pounds value)
 Cook: Ze probably worked and slept in the kitchen. A nanny that took care of the children (Probably penny)
 Slaves to take do the laundry. Slaves to wait on table for instructions. A slave to hold water from the well to the rooms when needed. A slave to take water up and downstairs (probably Kate)
 A slave to careforf John Carlyle's needs (Moses)

Slaves in Alexandria were able to learn new skills and jobs and livlive a community with free African Americans, this allowed them to run away from slavery and got freedom and live with their friends in nearby towns. American Revolution

The ideological and political revolution in British America that started in 1765 originated withy tax imposition by the British Parliament, a body in which Americans had no direct representation, which was seen as a violation of their Rights of Englishmen. This led to the signing of the United States Declaration of Independence on July 4, 1776, during the American Revolutionary War that started on April 19, 1775, and finished on September 3, 1783. John Carlyle died in 1780, during the time of the Revolutionary War. His son, George William Carlyle, inherited the house in 1780, but died in combat at the Battle of Eutaw Springs in South Carolina one year later. John Carlyle Herbert inherited the Carlyle House in 1781. The house passed from the family's possession by 1827 when Sarah Carlyle died. John Carlyle Herbert sold it to pay off an uncle's gambling debt, while he had moved to Maryland in the first decade of the 19th century. A wealthy Alexandria merchant, John Lloyd, owned extensive tracts of real estate both in and outside of town, nd ended up acquiring possession of the Carlyle House. Not successful in selling the property, Lloyd offered the structure as a possible site for the new city and county courthouse to be constructed in Alexandria in 1838. This proposal was rejected and Lloyd continued to lease the premises to a number of renters until it was sold in 1848 to James Green, the owner of Green and Brother Furniture Factory, a noted Alexandria furniture manufacturer. Civil War

By 1860 Carlyle House owner James Green completed many major renovations to the Carlyle House. He also created a hotel in front of the house known as the Mansion House Hotel, which was known as one of the best hotels on the East Coast. With the building of the hotel fronting Fairfax Street, the Carlyle House was no longer visible from the street. At the onset of the Civil War, Union troops occupied the city of Alexandria, including the Mansion House Hotel, in November 1860 Green received notice to vacate in December since the Mansion Hotel was going to be confiscated. The troops converted it to a hospital for Union soldiers, after the Battle of Bull Run. It could treat more than 700 wound soldiers, and nurses were mostly female, but at the time there were not many female medical doctors in the country. During the Civil War, this house and the city of Alexandria itself, that once used slave force, became one of the principal centers that supported the fight against slavery and hold a key role in the abolition of slavery in the United States in the 19th century.