[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: cannabis cannabidiol therapeutic epilepsy pain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: cannabis cannabidiol therapeutic epilepsy pain]

74. S Afr Med J. 2020 Feb 26;110(3):192-196. doi: 10.7196/SAMJ.2020.v110i3.14403.

Medical cannabis: What practitioners need to know.

Van Rensburg R(1), Pillay-Fuentes Lorente V, Blockman M, Moodley K, Wilmshurst 
JM, Decloedt EH.

Author information:
(1)Division of Clinical Pharmacology, Department of Medicine, Faculty of 
Medicine and Health Sciences, Stellenbosch University, Cape Town, South Africa. 
rolandmed@gmail.com.

The South African (SA) Constitutional Court recently decriminalised the private 
cultivation, possession and use of cannabis by adults. Cannabis contains varying 
amounts of the cannabinoids delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and cannabidiol 
(CBD), depending on various cultivation factors. No commercial plant-derived 
cannabis products are currently registered by the SA Health Products Regulatory 
Authority (SAHPRA) for medical use. Such products are therefore unregulated, but 
are freely available in SA, and may be of inadequate quality and unverified 
composition, and not guaranteed to be safe or effective. SAHPRA has to date 
approved only one synthetic medical cannabis product, dronabinol. Evidence 
supporting benefit from medical cannabis exists for two drug-resistant childhood 
forms of epilepsy, Dravet syndrome and Lennox-Gastaut syndrome. Adjuvant therapy 
with medical cannabis can reduce seizure frequency for Lennox-Gastaut syndrome 
and Dravet syndrome by 18.8% and 22.8%, respectively, and may be beneficial for 
other rare forms of epilepsy. There is moderate evidence for 
chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting with the synthetic cannabinoids. 
Multiple sclerosis-associated spasticity showed a small clinical improvement in 
self-reported spasticity when a purified form of THC/CBD was added to existing 
therapy. Currently, low-level or no convincing evidence exists for the use of 
medical cannabis for chronic pain, sleep and weight disorders, and 
neuropsychiatric disorders. Cannabis is associated with a greater risk of 
adverse effects than active and placebo controls, and may be involved in 
clinically significant drug-drug interactions. The evolving regulatory and legal 
landscape on the use of medical cannabis will guide prescription and 
recreational use in the coming years.

DOI: 10.7196/SAMJ.2020.v110i3.14403
PMID: 32657695 [Indexed for MEDLINE]