[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: nanoparticle drug delivery tumor targeting cancer | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: nanoparticle drug delivery tumor targeting cancer]

52. J Pharm Sci. 2024 Nov;113(11):3145-3172. doi: 10.1016/j.xphs.2024.08.012.
Epub  2024 Aug 15.

Recent advances in nano-based drug delivery systems for treatment of liver 
cancer.

Hefnawy A(1), Abdelhamid AS(2), Abdelaziz MM(3), Elzoghby AO(4), Khalil IA(5).

Author information:
(1)Smyth Lab, College of Pharmacy, University of Texas at Austin, TX 78712, USA. 
Electronic address: ahefnawy@utexas.edu.
(2)Cancer Nanotechnology Research Laboratory (CNRL), Faculty of Pharmacy, 
Alexandria University, Alexandria 21521, Egypt. Electronic address: 
Ahmed_sala790@yahoo.com.
(3)Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, The University of Kansas, Lawrence, 
KS 66047, USA. Electronic address: moustafa.abdelaziz@ku.edu.
(4)Cancer Nanotechnology Research Laboratory (CNRL), Faculty of Pharmacy, 
Alexandria University, Alexandria 21521, Egypt; Department of Industrial 
Pharmacy, Faculty of Pharmacy, Alexandria University, Alexandria 21521, Egypt; 
Division of Engineering in Medicine, Department of Medicine, Brigham and Women's 
Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA. Electronic address: 
ahmed_elzoghby@alexu.edu.eg.
(5)Department of Pharmaceutics, College of Pharmaceutical Sciences and Drug 
Manufacturing, Misr University for Science and Technology, 6th of October City 
12582, Giza, Egypt. Electronic address: islam.khalil@must.edu.eg.

Liver cancer is one of the aggressive primary tumors as evident by high rate of 
incidence and mortality. Conventional treatments (e.g. chemotherapy) suffer from 
various drawbacks including wide drug distribution, low localized drug 
concentration, and severe off-site toxicity. Therefore, they cannot satisfy the 
mounting need for safe and efficient cancer therapeutics, and alternative novel 
strategies are needed. Nano-based drug delivery systems (NDDSs) are among these 
novel approaches that can improve the overall therapeutic outcomes. NDDSs are 
designed to encapsulate drug molecules and target them specifically to liver 
cancer. Thus, NDDSs can selectively deliver therapeutic agents to the tumor 
cells and avoid distribution to off-target sites which should improve the safety 
profile of the active agents. Nonetheless, NDDSs should be well designed, in 
terms of the preparing materials, nanocarriers structure, and the targeting 
strategy, in order to accomplish these objectives. This review discusses the 
latest advances of NDDSs for cancer therapy with emphasis on the aforementioned 
essential design components. The review also entails the challenges associated 
with the clinical translation of NDDSs, and the future perspectives towards 
next-generation NDDSs.

Copyright © 2024 American Pharmacists Association. Published by Elsevier Inc. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.xphs.2024.08.012
PMID: 39151795 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.