[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: laser dermatology skin treatment tattoo hair | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: laser dermatology skin treatment tattoo hair]

22. J Cutan Pathol. 2026 Jan;53(1):125-129. doi: 10.1111/cup.70000. Epub 2025 Sep
 29.

Flashes of Light: From the Lab and Dermatopathology, to the World With Marty 
Mihm.

Anderson RR(1), Nelson JS(2), Tran TN(1), Tan W(3).

Author information:
(1)Wellman Center for Photomedicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard 
Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
(2)Beckman Laser Center, University of California Irvine, Irvine, California, 
USA.
(3)Department of Cell Biology and Anatomy, University of South Carolina, 
Columbia, South Carolina, USA.

Martin C. (Marty) Mihm made multiple, pivotal contributions over four decades of 
discovery, innovation, and development leading to the world-wide application of 
lasers in dermatology. This started with trying to understand how pulses of 
light could be tailored to affect microscopic "target" structures in skin where 
the light is absorbed. There were many surprises, often first observed by light 
or electron microscopy. A host of new capabilities ensued, including laser 
treatments for microvascular and vascular malformations, non-melanoma pigmented 
lesions, tattoo and hair removal, rehabilitation of scars, improvement of 
photoaged skin, and lipid-targeting lasers for reduction of fat and acne. Dr. 
Mihm extended himself directly to patients, especially children with vascular 
anomalies. He contributed to the discovery that GLUT1, a glucose transporter 
expressed on vascular endothelium, is a defining diagnostic for infantile 
hemangiomas. He established a multispecialty vascular-anomalies clinic at the 
Massachusetts General Hospital, and co-founded the Vietnam Vascular Anomalies 
Center (VVAC) in Ho Chi Minh City. In Vietnam, topical radioactive phosphorus 
(32P) is applied as a misguided treatment for infantile hemangiomas, leading to 
radiation damage in uncounted thousands of children. By teaching the use of 
beta-adrenergic drug treatment, the use of 32P has been greatly reduced. Dr. 
Mihm pioneered the concept of pulsed dye laser (PDL) in combination with 
angiogenic inhibitors to improve the clinical efficacy of port wine stain (PWS) 
treatment. Moreover, he made seminal contributions to our understanding of the 
pathogenesis and spectrum of phenotypes of PWS lesions. The legacy of Martin C. 
Mihm extends to the entire world.

© 2025 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/cup.70000
PMID: 41024425 [Indexed for MEDLINE]