[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: phytotherapy systematic review clinical evidence | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: phytotherapy systematic review clinical evidence]

93. J Ethnopharmacol. 2021 Oct 5;278:114310. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2021.114310. Epub
 2021 Jun 6.

Chemical composition, quality control, pharmacokinetics, pharmacological 
properties and clinical applications of Fufang Danshen Tablet: A systematic 
review.

Zeng X(1), Zheng Y(1), Liu Y(1), Su W(2).

Author information:
(1)Guangdong Engineering & Technology Research Center for Quality and Efficacy 
Reevaluation of Post-Market Traditional Chinese Medicine, Guangdong Provincial 
Key Laboratory of Plant Resources, School of Life Sciences, Sun Yat-sen 
University, 510275, Guangzhou, People's Republic of China.
(2)Guangdong Engineering & Technology Research Center for Quality and Efficacy 
Reevaluation of Post-Market Traditional Chinese Medicine, Guangdong Provincial 
Key Laboratory of Plant Resources, School of Life Sciences, Sun Yat-sen 
University, 510275, Guangzhou, People's Republic of China. Electronic address: 
lsssww@126.com.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Fufang Danshen Tablet (FDT) is a traditional 
Chinese medicine (TCM) formula composed of three Chinese medicinal materials 
comprising Salviae Miltiorrhizar Radix et Rhizoma (Dan-Shen in Chinese), 
Notoginseng Radix et Rhizoma (San-Qi), and Borneolum Syntheticum (Bing-Pian). It 
has been documented to exert significant effects in promoting blood circulation 
and removing blood stasis, and become a frequently used formula in the treatment 
of cardiovascular and cerebrovascular diseases.
AIM OF THE REVIEW: To systematically analyze and summarize the research findings 
concerning the chemical composition, quality control, pharmacokinetics, 
pharmacological properties, clinical applications, and toxicity of FDT, so as to 
point out some typical problems and provides opinions for future study.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Literatures involving FDT were collected from online 
scientific databases including China National Knowledge Infrastructure, WanFang 
Data, PubMed, Science Direct, Scopus, Web of Science, Springer Link, SciFinder, 
and Google Scholar up to March 2021. All eligible studies are analyzed and 
summarized in this review.
RESULTS: This review summarizes reported results concerning the post-marketing 
quality and efficacy of FDT. Some problems are pointed out for FDT. Hereon we 
propose several directions for future study: (a) improvement of quality control 
based on exact overall chemical profiles, entire production process monitoring, 
and biopotency-associated multi-index content determination method; (b) 
clarification of functional mechanisms focused on pharmacokinetic profiles in 
human, interplay with gut microbiota, and integration of multi-omics 
technologies; (c) reconfirmation of clinical effectiveness and safety from 
large-scale clinical studies based on evidence-based medicine.
CONCLUSIONS: FDT is a typical TCM formula in treating cardiovascular and 
cerebrovascular diseases, but there are also some troubles. Future studies 
should focus on the improvement of quality control, the clarification of 
functional mechanisms, as well as the reconfirmation of clinical effectiveness 
and safety.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2021.114310
PMID: 34107328 [Indexed for MEDLINE]