[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: optical coherence tomography retinal diagnosis | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: optical coherence tomography retinal diagnosis]

92. Retina. 2011 Jun;31(6):1156-63. doi: 10.1097/IAE.0b013e3181fbcea5.

Retinal fluorescein and indocyanine green angiography and spectral-domain 
optical coherence tomography findings in acute retinal pigment epitheliitis.

Baillif S(1), Wolff B, Paoli V, Gastaud P, Mauget-Faÿsse M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Saint-Roch University Hospital, Nice, France. 
a.rothova@umcutrecht.nl

PURPOSE: To determine the specific location of the initial lesion in acute 
retinal pigment epitheliitis.
METHODS: Four patients diagnosed with acute retinal pigment epitheliitis were 
studied. Fundus photographs, fluorescein angiography and indocyanine green 
angiography, and spectral-domain optical coherence tomography findings were 
reviewed.
RESULTS: Four healthy young patients presented with acute onset of unilateral 
decreased vision. Ophthalmoscopy showed macular pigment mottling with 
surrounding yellow hypopigmented areas at the level of the retinal pigment 
epithelium (RPE). Fluorescein angiography revealed transmission 
hyperfluorescence. Early-phase and midphase indocyanine green angiography images 
showed a patchy macular hyperfluorescence. At late phase of indocyanine green 
angiography, a hyperfluorescent halo with a cockadelike appearance of the 
macular area was observed. Spectral-domain optical coherence tomography showed a 
disruption of the photoreceptors' inner segment and outer segment interface 
associated with a wider disruption of the RPE inner band. These disrupted lines 
were replaced by a dome-shaped highly reflective lesion involving the RPE inner 
layer, the photoreceptors' inner segment and outer segment layers, and, in two 
cases, the outer nuclear layer. With time, indocyanine green angiography showed 
resolution of the observed lesions. Spectral-domain optical coherence tomography 
showed restored and continuous inner segment and outer segment layers and RPE 
inner band.
CONCLUSION: Spectral-domain optical coherence tomography findings suggest that 
the initial lesion in acute retinal pigment epitheliitis is located at the 
junction between the photoreceptor outer segments and the apical side of the RPE 
cells. Indocyanine green angiography and spectral-domain optical coherence 
tomography show that the RPE appears to be more widely involved than the 
neurosensory retina.

DOI: 10.1097/IAE.0b013e3181fbcea5
PMID: 21293312 [Indexed for MEDLINE]