[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: Theoretical and Experimental Investigations of a Permanent M | Type: OpenAlex-OA | Level: Graduate]

[OpenAlex | Applied Magnetism | Year: 2014 | Citations: 10]

Title: Theoretical and Experimental Investigations of a Permanent Magnet Excited Transverse Flux Machine with a Segmented Stator for In-Wheel Motor Applications

Abstract:
A three-phase transverse flux permanent magnet (PM) motor with flux concentrating (FC-) topology that has a segmented stator is studied in this dissertation. The phases of the stator have been placed around the rotational axis of the machine instead of placing them in a classical way over each other along the axial direction. Through this phase arrangement, the electrical and mechanical shifts between the phases are considered to ensure proper operation of the transverse flux machine (TFM) without the need of extra components such as a start-up capacitor or a special designed power supply. The segmented stator construction has required that the conventional ring coils to be replaced by a type of concentric winding that take a saddle shape enabling parallel magnetic circuits to take place. This has initiated studying the effect of the distances located between the phases on all over the performances of the machine. In order to select an initial construction for the stator, a preliminary assessment study of some conventional PM-TFMs having ring coils are carried out, through which they are re-designed as outer rotor motors and compared based on the level of electromagnetic torque and the inductance profile. As the main application of the design is to achieve a compact construction for an outer rotor, low noise and speed too for possible future in-wheel applications, the most interesting issue in this study is how to bring all the phases of the machine around the shaft in one layer without losing the torque productivity as when the phases are placed under each other in the conventional way. Therefore, the designed machine is set in further theoretical evaluation studies via finite element method (FEM) with the conventional layered TFM, and it shows that the TFM with segmented windings has a better torque density as its correspondence in the conventional layered structure. This result is in favor to the segmented structure, in particular, about 31% of the PMs number in the segmented structure (i.e., total number of PMs located between the phases) will not have an active role in the torque production. A detailed mathematical theory has been analytically developed and investigated to show the validity and limitation of the design. The study has incorporated how the segmentation of each phase and placement of the two parts opposite to each other can improve the mechanical balance of the TFM and hence quite rotation. The approach has been shown for two- and three-phase PM-TFMs. Moreover, illustration for applying the same principle of segmented stator to surface PM topology of TFMs is analytical verified and shown via FEM. Possible constructions with segmented stators are developed in a periodical table format to give the machine designer a shortcut for a possible construction with the selected number of magnets, number of segments per phase and the desired space between the phases. Since the noise is a well-known problem of TFMs, due to the ripple in the electromagnetic torque waveform and the natural magnetic normal forces, the normal and axial forces in PM-TFM with segmented stator have been investigated too, where introducing more segments per phase will reduce their effects. In order to validate the theoretical investigation, a low-scaled test machine is designed, constructed and a complete test bench has been built to experimentally test the machine. The experimental investigations have included generator and motor operation modes as well as measuring the ratings, performances of the machine and the starting methods. The test machine has reached via the conducted tests an average torque of about 2.1 Nm with an efficiency of 53% and it has a great development potential to be improved via shaping of stator poles, the room available for the windings, fill factor and more optimization possibilities. Based on the theoretical and experimental investigations, the operation of the segmented winding design of PM-TFM proves itself to work and to have a future for compact motors in industrial operation, or as in-wheel outer rotor motor for mobile platforms. For higher power applications, a machine with such type of stator should be designed with big diameters that will allow the utility of more PMs as well as more segments per phase, where both are involved in the torque production, i.e., more torque density for the segmented TFM.