[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: biomaterial implant osseointegration titanium clin | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: biomaterial implant osseointegration titanium clinical]

67. Dent Mater J. 2000 Jun;19(2):99-132. doi: 10.4012/dmj.19.99.

Genetic potential of interfacial guided osteogenesis in implant devices.

Letić-Gavrilović A(1), Scandurra R, Abe K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Faculty of Stomatology, University of Beograd, 
Beograd, Yugoslavia.

The purpose of this review is to summarise recent advances in the design and 
composition of bioactive surface layers of implantabile biomaterials, and thus 
the genetic potential of osteoprogenitor cells to recognize and respond to these 
diverse implanted biomaterials. Changes applied to a biomaterial's surface, in 
general, could improve its biocompatibility, osseointegration and durability 
properties, which are required for long-term implantation in the living body. In 
this review, the implant-bone interface was evaluated and interpreted on the 
basis of osteoblast cell cultures, i.e., on the genetic potential of osteoblasts 
to express different phenotype markers depending on the type of biomaterials 
used. The interface formed by in vitro-grown osteoblasts may be used to identify 
components of the in vivo implant-bone interface. Over the years, a large number 
of implant systems consisting of many different biomaterials have been 
introduced in dentistry and orthopaedics. This paper discusses the performance 
of currently used metals and other biomaterials, by focusing on the events which 
occur immediately after implantation and on their impact on the bone-implant 
interface. The review demonstrates that continuous improvements in composition, 
surface modality and design of implants may benefit osseointegration and 
clinical longevity of such implants. No load-bearing conditions or clinical 
status are discussed. Titanium (Ti) and calcium phosphate ceramics are regarded 
as the most biocompatible synthetic substances known to be used in hard tissue 
implantation. These biomaterials are osteoconductive, and do not induce ectopic 
bone formation. Nonetheless, they provide a physical matrix which is suitable 
for the deposition of new bone and may guide both the growth and extension of 
the bone. Comparative investigation evaluated that Ti implant systems appear to 
be apposed by more bone than ceramic systems, although alternatives concerning 
the type of Ti alloy and bioactive surface layer engineering, generate extremely 
diverse osseointegration results. Manufacturers have created an extensive range 
of inorganic or ceramic coatings on Ti implants in order to achieve better bone 
healing and osteoconduction. Biologically active molecules, added to the implant 
surface, represent breakthroughs in guided interfacial osteogenesis. This 
methodology offers an enormous potential of genetic controlling and promoting 
osteogenesis. The bone growth factors are not fully understood, but most 
researchers agree that the contact between the bioactive surface layer of the 
implant and bone is not static but dynamic and that the above factors may 
maximise the implant osseointegration.

DOI: 10.4012/dmj.19.99
PMID: 11219100 [Indexed for MEDLINE]