[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: ethnobotany traditional medicine biological activi | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: ethnobotany traditional medicine biological activity]

33. J Ethnopharmacol. 2022 Feb 10;284:114748. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2021.114748.
Epub  2021 Oct 15.

A review of the ethnopharmacology, phytochemistry and pharmacology of 
Cynanchumatratum.

Zhang Y(1), Yang Y(1), Yan C(1), Li J(2), Zhang P(1), Liu R(3), He J(4), Chang 
YX(5).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Component-based Chinese Medicine, Tianjin University 
of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Tianjin, 301617, China; Tianjin Key 
Laboratories of Phytochemistry and Pharmaceutical Analysis, Tianjin University 
of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Tianjin, 301617, China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Component-based Chinese Medicine, Tianjin University 
of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Tianjin, 301617, China. Electronic address: 
Lijin@tjutcm.edu.cn.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Component-based Chinese Medicine, Tianjin University 
of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Tianjin, 301617, China; College of 
Pharmaceutical Engineering of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Tianjin University 
of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Tianjin, 301617, China.
(4)State Key Laboratory of Component-based Chinese Medicine, Tianjin University 
of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Tianjin, 301617, China.
(5)State Key Laboratory of Component-based Chinese Medicine, Tianjin University 
of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Tianjin, 301617, China; Tianjin Key 
Laboratories of Phytochemistry and Pharmaceutical Analysis, Tianjin University 
of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Tianjin, 301617, China. Electronic address: 
Tcmcyx@tjutcm.edu.cn.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: The dried roots and rhizomes of Cynanchum 
atratum Bunge is named 'Baiwei' according to traditional Chinese medicine 
theory. It is also named Cynanchi atrati Radix in Chinese Pharmacopoeia. 
Cynanchi atrati Radix is famous for its medicinal value of clearing away heat, 
relieving drenching, detoxifying and treating abscesses. It was commonly used in 
some Asian countries for the treatment of fever, vasoconstrictive syncope, 
lymphangitis and other diseases, obviously due to the effect of C21 steroidal 
glycosides.
THE AIM OF THE REVIEW: The review concentrates on the botany, ethnopharmacology, 
phytochemistry, pharmacology and toxicology of Cynanchum atratum. We also 
discuss expectations for prospective research and implementation of this herb.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Relevant information about C. atratum was gained from 
ancient books and records, Doctoral and master's Theses, Science Direct, Pubmed, 
Wiley, CNKI, WanFang DATA, Google Scholar and other domestic and foreign 
literature. Some electronic databases have been included.
RESULTS: As a member of the Apocynaceae family, C. atratum possesses its 
up-and-coming biological characteristics. It is widely reported for treating of 
postpartum fatigue, vomiting, urine drops, nephritis, urinary tract infection, 
edema, bronchitis and rheumatic low back pain. By now, over 100 compounds have 
been identified from C. atratum, including C21 steroidal glycosides, 
acetophenones, alkaloids, volatile oil and other ingredients. Activities such as 
anti-inflammatory, anti-tumor, anti-virus, antibacterial, anti-forgetful and 
others have been corroborated in vivo and in vitro. In addition, many of the 
active ingredients, such as Cynatratoside A, Cynanversicoside A, B, D, G, 
p-hydroxyacetophenone, 2,4-dihydroxyacetophenone and some volatile oils have 
been used as quality markers.
CONCLUSION: All kinds of research conducted on C.atratum, especially in field of 
ethnopharmacological use, phytochemicals and pharmacology have been reviewed. 
The herb has been used over the years in treating nephritis, urinary tract 
infection, bronchitis and rheumatic lumbocrural pain. Many studies have been 
carried out to identify compounds that play a leading role in drug activity. 
However, the mechanism of drug therapy remains unclear. The evidence used to 
prove the quality standard of medicinal materials is obviously inadequate. 
Besides, safety evaluation is necessary for clinical medication. Similarly, the 
separation of steroidal saponins and the development of new drugs will also need 
further discussion.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2021.114748
PMID: 34662666 [Indexed for MEDLINE]