[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: Structure factor | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Structure factor — Overview

a lattice, called the reciprocal lattice, which is the Fourier transform of the real-space crystal lattice. In principle the scattering factor can be used to determine the scattering from a perfect crystal; in the simple case when the basis is a single atom at the origin (and again neglecting all thermal motion, so that there is no need for averaging) all the atoms have identical environments. Equation () can be written as

 and    . The structure factor is then simply the squared modulus of the Fourier transform of the lattice, and shows the directions in which scattering can have non-zero intensity. At these values of  the wave from every lattice point is in phase. The value of the structure factor is the same for all these reciprocal lattice points, and the intensity varies only due to changes in  with . Units 
The units of the structure-factor amplitude depend on the incident radiation. For X-ray crystallography they are multiples of the unit of scattering by a single electron (2.82 m); for neutron scattering by atomic nuclei the unit of scattering length of  m is commonly used. The above discussion uses the wave vectors  and . However, crystallography  often uses wave vectors  and . Therefore, when comparing equations from different sources, the factor  may appear and disappear, and care to maintain consistent quantities is required to get correct numerical results. Definition of   
In crystallography, the basis and lattice are treated separately. For a perfect crystal the lattice gives the reciprocal lattice, which determines the positions (angles) of diffracted beams, and the basis gives the structure factor  which determines the amplitude and phase of the diffracted beams:

where the sum is over all atoms in the unit cell,  are the positional coordinates of the -th atom, and  is the scattering factor of the -th atom. The coordinates  have the directions and dimensions of the lattice vectors . That is, (0,0,0) is at the lattice point, the origin of position in the unit cell; (1,0,0) is at the next lattice point along  and (1/2, 1/2, 1/2) is at the body center of the unit cell. defines a reciprocal lattice point at  which corresponds to the real-space plane defined by the Miller indices   (see Bragg's law). is the vector sum of waves from all atoms within the unit cell. An atom at any lattice point has the reference phase angle zero for all  since then  is always an integer. A wave scattered from an atom at (1/2, 0, 0) will be in phase if  is even, out of phase if  is odd. Again an alternative view using convolution can be helpful. Since [crystal structure] = [lattice]  [basis], [crystal structure] = [lattice] [basis]; that is, scattering  [reciprocal lattice]  [structure factor]. Examples of  in 3-D

Body-centered cubic (BCC) 

For the body-centered cubic Bravais lattice (cI), we use the points  and  which leads us to

and hence

Face-centered cubic (FCC) 

The FCC lattice is a Bravais lattice, and its Fourier transform is a body-centered cubic lattice. However to obtain  without this shortcut, consider an FCC crystal with one atom at each lattice point as a primitive or simple cubic with a basis of 4 atoms, at the origin  and at the three adjacent face centers, ,  and . Equation () becomes

with the result

The most intense diffraction peak from a material that crystallizes in the FCC structure is typically the (111). Films of FCC materials like gold tend to grow in a (111) orientation with a triangular surface symmetry. A zero diffracted intensity for a group of diffracted beams (here,  of mixed parity) is called a systematic absence. Diamond crystal structure 
The diamond cubic crystal structure occurs for example diamond (carbon), tin, and most semiconductors. There are 8 atoms in the cubic unit cell. We can consider the structure as a simple cubic with a basis of 8 atoms, at positions

But comparing this to the FCC above, we see that it is simpler to describe the structure as FCC with a basis of two atoms at (0, 0, 0) and (1/4, 1/4, 1/4). For this basis,  Equation () becomes:

And then the structure factor for the diamond cubic structure is the product of this and the structure factor for FCC above, (only including the atomic form factor once)

with the result

 If h, k, ℓ are of mixed parity (odd and even values combined) the first (FCC) term is zero, so 
 If h, k, ℓ are all even or all odd then the first (FCC) term is 4
 if h+k+ℓ is odd then 
 if h+k+ℓ is even and exactly divisible by 4 () then 
 if h+k+ℓ is even but not exactly divisible by 4 () the second term is zero and 

These points are encapsulated by the following equations:

where  is an integer. Zincblende crystal structure 
The zincblende structure is similar to the diamond structure except that it is a compound of two distinct interpenetrating fcc lattices, rather than all the same element. Denoting the two elements in the compound by  and , the resulting structure factor is

Cesium chloride 

Cesium chloride is a simple cubic crystal lattice with a basis of Cs at (0,0,0) and Cl at (1/2, 1/2, 1/2) (or the other way around, it makes no difference).