[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: biomaterial implant osseointegration titanium clin | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: biomaterial implant osseointegration titanium clinical]

16. J Nanobiotechnology. 2024 Oct 18;22(1):639. doi: 10.1186/s12951-024-02865-y.

From ROS scavenging to boosted osseointegration: cerium-containing mesoporous 
bioactive glass nanoparticles functionalized implants in diabetes.

Jiang X(#)(1), Wei J(#)(1), Ding X(#)(1), Zheng K(2), Zhou T(3), Shi J(1), Lai 
H(4), Qian S(5), Zhang X(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Implantology, Shanghai PerioImplant 
Innovation Center, Shanghai Ninth People's Hospital, Shanghai Jiao Tong 
University School of Medicine; College of Stomatology, Shanghai Jiao Tong 
University; National Center for Stomatology; National Clinical Research Center 
for Oral Diseases; Shanghai Key Laboratory of Stomatology; , Shanghai Research 
Institute of Stomatology, Shanghai, 200011, China.
(2)Jiangsu Key Laboratory of Oral Diseases and Jiangsu Province Engineering 
Research Center of Stomatological Translational Medicine, Nanjing Medical 
University, Nanjing, 210029, China.
(3)Department of Oral Maxillofacial-Head and Neck Oncology, Shanghai Ninth 
People's Hospital, Shanghai Jiao Tong University School of Medicine; College of 
Stomatology, Shanghai Jiao Tong University; National Center for Stomatology; 
National Clinical Research Center for Oral Diseases; Shanghai Key Laboratory of 
Stomatology; , Shanghai Research Institute of Stomatology, Shanghai, 200011, 
China.
(4)Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Implantology, Shanghai PerioImplant 
Innovation Center, Shanghai Ninth People's Hospital, Shanghai Jiao Tong 
University School of Medicine; College of Stomatology, Shanghai Jiao Tong 
University; National Center for Stomatology; National Clinical Research Center 
for Oral Diseases; Shanghai Key Laboratory of Stomatology; , Shanghai Research 
Institute of Stomatology, Shanghai, 200011, China. hongchanglai@126.com.
(5)Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Implantology, Shanghai PerioImplant 
Innovation Center, Shanghai Ninth People's Hospital, Shanghai Jiao Tong 
University School of Medicine; College of Stomatology, Shanghai Jiao Tong 
University; National Center for Stomatology; National Clinical Research Center 
for Oral Diseases; Shanghai Key Laboratory of Stomatology; , Shanghai Research 
Institute of Stomatology, Shanghai, 200011, China. qianshujiao@gmail.com.
(6)Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Implantology, Shanghai PerioImplant 
Innovation Center, Shanghai Ninth People's Hospital, Shanghai Jiao Tong 
University School of Medicine; College of Stomatology, Shanghai Jiao Tong 
University; National Center for Stomatology; National Clinical Research Center 
for Oral Diseases; Shanghai Key Laboratory of Stomatology; , Shanghai Research 
Institute of Stomatology, Shanghai, 200011, China. zhangxiaomengwowo@126.com.
(#)Contributed equally

Excessive production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) around titanium implants 
under diabetic conditions causes persistent inflammation, leading to poor 
osseointegration and even implant failure. Surface modification is an effective 
way to promote ROS clearance, alleviate inflammation, and stimulate bone 
formation. In this study, a multifunctional coating is fabricated by introducing 
cerium (Ce)-containing mesoporous bioactive glass nanoparticles (Ce-MBGNs) onto 
the titanium surface via an electrophoretic deposition method. The incorporation 
of Ce-MBGNs remarkably improves surface hydrophilicity by increasing the surface 
areas. The bioactive ions are appropriately released, thereby promoting 
mesenchymal stem cell proliferation and differentiation under diabetic 
conditions. The conversion between Ce(III) and Ce(IV) endows Ce-MBGNs coating 
with antioxidative nanoenzymes properties to scavenge diabetes-induced ROS, 
resulting in macrophage polarization towards the anti-inflammatory phenotype. 
The therapeutic effect of Ce-MBGNs-modified titanium implants is also verified 
in diabetic rats by inhibiting inflammatory responses and accelerating early 
osseointegration. Taken together, the findings reveal that the ROS-scavenging 
and immunomodulation activity of the Ce-MBGNs coating contributes to enhanced 
osseointegration, and provides a novel implant surface for diabetic patients.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12951-024-02865-y
PMCID: PMC11488221
PMID: 39425200 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.