[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: Cold spraying | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Cold spraying — Overview

Gas dynamic cold spraying or cold spraying (CS) is a coating deposition method. Solid powders (1 to 50 micrometers in diameter) are accelerated in a supersonic gas jet to velocities up to ca. 1200 m/s. During impact with the substrate, particles undergo plastic deformation and adhere to the surface. To achieve a uniform thickness the spraying nozzle is scanned along the substrate. Metals, polymers, ceramics, composite materials and nanocrystalline powders can be deposited using cold spraying. The kinetic energy of the particles, supplied by the expansion of the gas, is converted to plastic deformation energy during bonding. Unlike thermal spraying techniques, e.g., plasma spraying, arc spraying, flame spraying, or high velocity oxygen fuel (HVOF), the powders are not melted during the spraying process. History
Cold spraying was developed by Russian scientists in the 1990s. While experimenting with the particle erosion of the target, which was exposed to a two-phase high-velocity flow of fine powder in a wind tunnel, scientists observed accidental rapid formation of coatings. This coating technique was commercialized in the 1990s. Types
There are two types of CS. High pressure cold spraying (HPCS) in which the working gas is nitrogen or helium at pressures above 1.5 MPa, a flow rate of more than 2 m3/min, heating power of 18 kW. It is used for spraying pure metal powders with the sizes of 5–50 μm. In low-pressure cold spraying (LPCS), the working gas is a compressed gas with pressure 0.5–1.0 MPa, flow rate 0.5–2 m3/min and the heating power 3–5 kW. It is used for spraying a mechanical mixture of metal and ceramic powders. The inclusion of a ceramic component in the mixture provides high-quality coatings with relatively low energy consumption. Basic principles
The most prevailing bonding theory in cold spraying is attributed to "adiabatic shear instability" which occurs at the particle substrate interface at or beyond a certain velocity called critical velocity. When a spherical particle travelling at critical velocity impacts a substrate, a strong pressure field propagates spherically into the particle and substrate from the point of contact. As a result of this pressure field, a shear load is generated which accelerates the material laterally and causes localized shear straining. The shear loading under critical conditions leads to adiabatic shear instability where thermal softening is locally dominant over work strain and strain rate hardening, which leads to a discontinuous jump in strain and temperature and breakdown of flow stresses. This adiabatic shear instability phenomena results in viscous flow of material at an outward flowing direction with temperatures close to melting temperature of the material. This material jetting is also a known phenomenon in explosive welding of materials. Key parameters in cold spraying 
There are several factors that can affect the quality of cold-sprayed coatings and the deposition efficiency. Main influential factors are: 
 Gas type, e.g. air, nitrogen, helium
 Gas pressure 
 Gas temperature (the maximum temperature in cold spraying is ca. 900 °C)
 Particle size
 Feedstock material properties, e.g. density, strength, melting temperature 
 Nozzle type
 Substrate
 Deposition kinetics (gun transverse speed, scan velocity, number of passes ...)
 Standoff distance, i.e. the distance between the cold spray nozzle and the substrate. Cold spray parameters are selected with respect to the desired coating characteristics and economic considerations. This can be done by considering correlations between process parameters and final coating properties. There are also software packages available for this purpose. Advantages and disadvantages 
CS has many advantages that make the technology potentially very competitive. Being a cold process, the initial physical and chemical particle properties are retained and the heating of the substrate is minimal, resulting in cold-worked microstructure of coatings where no melting and solidification happen. Dynamic recrystallization with refined grains has been observed between particle and particle bonding region. Furthermore, the technology allows to spray thermally sensitive materials and highly dissimilar materials combinations, due to the fact that the adhesion mechanism is purely mechanical. Other advantages are:
 High thermal and electrical conductivity of coatings;
 High density and hardness of coatings;
 High homogeneity of coatings;
 Low shrinking;
 Possibility to spray micro-sized particles (5–10 μm);
 Possibility to spray nanomaterials and amorphous materials;
 Short stand off distance;
 Minimum surface preparation;
 Low energy consumption;
 Possibility to obtain complex shapes and internal surfaces;
 High productivity due to high power feed rate;
 High deposition rates and efficiencies;
 Possibility to collect and reuse 100% of particles;
 No toxic wastes;
 No combustion;
 Increased operational safety due to the absence of high temperature gas jets and radiation.