[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: natural product antibiotic drug discovery | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: natural product antibiotic drug discovery]

48. Lancet Infect Dis. 2019 Jul;19(7):e237-e245. doi:
10.1016/S1473-3099(18)30711-4.  Epub 2019 Apr 25.

Potential of marine natural products against drug-resistant bacterial 
infections.

Liu M(1), El-Hossary EM(2), Oelschlaeger TA(3), Donia MS(4), Quinn RJ(1), 
Abdelmohsen UR(5).

Author information:
(1)Griffith Institute for Drug Discovery, Griffith University, Brisbane, QLD, 
Australia.
(2)National Centre for Radiation Research and Technology, Egyptian Atomic Energy 
Authority, El-Zohoor District, Nasr City, Cairo, Egypt.
(3)Institute for Molecular Infection Biology, University of Würzburg, Würzburg, 
Germany.
(4)Department of Molecular Biology, Princeton University, Princeton, NJ, USA.
(5)Department of Pharmacognosy, Faculty of Pharmacy, Minia University, Minia, 
Egypt. Electronic address: usama.ramadan@mu.edu.eg.

Natural products have been a rich source of compounds with structural and 
chemical diversity for drug discovery. However, antibiotic resistance in 
bacteria has been reported for nearly every antibiotic once it is used in 
clinical practice. In the past decade, pharmaceutical companies have reduced 
their natural product discovery projects because of challenges, such as high 
costs, low return rates, and high rediscovery rates. The largely unexplored 
marine environment harbours substantial diversity and is a large resource to 
discover novel compounds with novel modes of action, which is essential for the 
treatment of drug-resistant bacterial infections. In this Review, we report 
compounds derived from marine sources that have shown in-vivo and in-vitro 
efficacy against drug-resistant bacteria. Analysis of the physicochemical 
properties of these marine natural products with activity against drug-resistant 
bacteria showed that 60% of the compounds have oral bioavailability potential. 
Their overall distribution pattern of drug characteristics agrees with the 
observation that marketed antibacterial drugs have a polar distribution, with a 
lower median calculated logP. The aim of this Review is to summarise the 
diversity of these marine natural products, with a special focus on analysis of 
drug bioavailability. Such biologically active compounds, with high degrees of 
bioavailability, have the potential to be developed as effective drugs against 
infectious diseases.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S1473-3099(18)30711-4
PMID: 31031171 [Indexed for MEDLINE]