[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: traditional Chinese medicine herbs mechanism actio | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: traditional Chinese medicine herbs mechanism action]

16. Ann Med. 2024 Dec;56(1):2308077. doi: 10.1080/07853890.2024.2308077. Epub
2024  Jan 29.

Substance basis and pharmacological mechanism of heat-clearing herbs in the 
treatment of ischaemic encephalopathy: a systematic review and network 
pharmacology.

Zhao A(1)(2)(3), Sun Q(1), Zhang J(1), Hu T(1), Zhou X(1), Wang C(1)(2)(3), Liu 
J(1)(2)(3), Wang B(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Pharmacology of Chinese Medicine, Shaanxi University of Chinese Medicine, 
Xianyang, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Pharmacodynamics and Material Basis of Chinese Medicine of 
Shaanxi Administration of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Xianyang, China.
(3)Engineering Research Center of Brain Health Industry of Chinese Medicine, 
Universities of Shaanxi Province, Xianyang, China.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: Ischaemic encephalopathy is a common cerebrovascular 
disease caused by insufficient blood supply to the cerebral vessels. The 
ischaemic encephalopathy is closely associated with the development of many 
chronic diseases such as obesity, hypertension and diabetes. Neurotrophic 
therapy has become the main therapeutic strategy for ischaemic encephalopathy. 
However, neurotrophic drugs only slightly recover the neurological function of 
patients, and their long-term efficacy is uncertain. Previous reports revealed 
that the active ingredients of natural medicines play important roles in the 
treatment of cerebral ischemia. In this study, we reviewed clearing herbs with 
anti-ischaemic encephalopathy functions using the data from quantitative 
statistical and network pharmacological exploration methods. We also discussed 
the different bioactive components and pharmacological effects of these herbs.
METHODS: First, we collected Chinese herbal prescriptions against ischaemic 
encephalopathy in four databases. Then, we statistically analysed the frequency 
of application of heat-clearing herbs to obtain the commonly used heat-clearing 
herbs against ischaemic encephalopathy, and classified them according to their 
efficacy according to the statistical results, to summarize the mechanism of 
anti-ischaemic effects of different bioactive components; Second, the network 
database was used to obtain the above components of heat-clearing Chinese 
medicines and their corresponding targets of action, disease targets of 
ischaemic stroke; Venny 2.1.0 was used to obtain component-disease target 
intersections; Cytoscape was used to construct the 'Drug-Active 
Ingredient-Target Network Graph '; DAVID was used for GO and KEGG enrichment 
analysis.
RESULTS: Literature and database screening involved 149 prescriptions, with a 
total of 269 flavours of Chinese medicines and 20 flavours of single-flavour 
heat-clearing Chinese medicines; The top nine in terms of frequency of use were 
Radix Paeoniae Rubra、Rehmanniae Radix Praeparata、Figwort Root、Cortex 
Moutan、Scutellariae Radix、Coptidis Rhizoma、Gardeniae Fructus、Cassiae 
Semen、Lonicerae Japonicae Flos. The common components obtained from network 
pharmacology were beta-sitosterol, quercetin, and stigmasterol, which mainly act 
on key targets such as RELA, AKT1, JUN, PRKACA, PTGS2, RAF1 and CHUK; and their 
active ingredients are mainly involved in signalling pathways such as Calcium, 
PI3K-Ak, MAPK, cAMP, IL-17, HIF-1, TNF, T-cell receptor, NF-kappa B and 
JAK-STAT.
CONCLUSIONS: Heat-clearing herbs are useful and promising for the protection 
against and prevention of ischemic encephalopathy. The results of the network 
pharmacological studies are similar to the mechanisms of anti-ischemic 
encephalopathy of the active ingredients of the purgative herbs we have listed; 
Thin either directly protects cerebrovascular tissues by improving vascular 
permeability and reducing the area of infarcted tissues, or produces protective 
effects through molecular signaling pathways. It can be seen that the components 
of heat-clearing Chinese medicines can exert cerebroprotective effects through 
multiple pathways, which provides us with a reference for further development 
and study of heat-clearing Chinese medicines in the treatment of ischemic 
cerebrovascular diseases.

DOI: 10.1080/07853890.2024.2308077
PMCID: PMC10826791
PMID: 38285889 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: No potential conflict of interest was reported 
by the author(s).