[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Complex Circuit Systems | Topic: Reading Works | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Reading Works — Overview

it was announced that Agere had signed an agreement with a Montgomery County, Pennsylvania developer to sell the Agere Systems property in Muhlenberg Township, Pennsylvania, and projected the return of 1,000 jobs to the site within 18 months, with more jobs to follow. 2006: Greater Reading Expo Center Audubon Land Development of Oaks, Pennsylvania, bought the old Reading Works in December 2005 for an undisclosed amount. Agere Systems had been asking for $8 million for the property. The assessment of the property was lowered to $9.5 million from $26.3 million after Agere Systems appealed. On Tuesday, March 14, 2006, Urban Expositions, a Georgia-based trade show company, announced it would hold the 10th annual Philadelphia Gift Show at the Reading Center July 23–26, 2006, the facility being called the Greater Reading Expo Center. A company press release called the event, with an expected 1,400 booths, the largest regional gift show in the country. Gene Call, an Audubon spokesman, said Audubon's subsidiary, Stonepoint Management Corp., which was leasing the  Agere Systems building, would run the expo center. Stonepoint would use , he said. Stonepoint was exploring other uses but had not made firm plans. Crystal Seitz, president of the Greater Reading Convention & Visitors Bureau, said a typical convention center with a steady stream of shows generates about $150 million for a local economy, including money spent for lodging and meals. Jon C. Scott, president of the Berks Economic Partnership, said he has met several times with Audubon officials and was excited about the prospects for the center. “It opens up the type of exhibits that would never have been available before,” Scott said. “It leads to other intriguing possibilities.” Some of the shows scheduled for the facility included: Philadelphia Gift Show which includes Birdwatch America-Philadelphia, Great Train Expo, Bead Fest Philadelphia, Greater Philadelphia Pet Expo, Great American Guitar Show, Sports Card & Memorabilia Show, Home & Garden Show, and The Greater Reading Sport, Travel & Outdoors Show. Success of the Expo Center was in part due to the closing of the Fort Washington Exposition Center in Montgomery County and the Pennsylvania Expo Center in Lehigh County and in part due to the  of inside space, several auditoriums, numerous meeting rooms, 13 loading docks, ample parking and a full-service cafeteria among its amenities. Muhlenberg Township waived the 10% amusement tax on admission to the Expo Center from January through September 2007. This was an attempt to allow the Expo Center to become better established. The township estimated future revenues at $50,000 per year. The Pennsylvania Department of Community and Economic Development included the StonePointe Center, which includes the Greater Reading Expo Center, as part of the Greater Reading Keystone Innovation Zone and invested $235,000 to fund its operations. Also included in this zone is TEK Park, the former home of Lucent/Agere Optoelectronics in Breinigsville, Lehigh County, which houses a number of industrial tenants and the Kutztown University Innovation Center. Building 30 is now called the "Flex Building" and building 20 is the "Office Building". Stonepoint pitched the center: "Imagine a state of the art business center, with more than one million square feet of available space for office, manufacturing and distribution; a facility with high-tech infrastructure and easy access to transportation. Imagine a convenient location near Reading, Pennsylvania, with professional on-site management to support your business. Imagine your business at StonePointe Center."

The Expo Center was the latest in venues that mark a renaissance in Reading. It started with the opening of the Sovereign Center and its sister the Sovereign Performing Arts Center. Now it includes the GoggleWorks Center for the Arts. The Greater Reading Expo Center closed in 2013. References
 Prescott C. Mabon (1975). Mission Communications: The Story of Bell Laboratories; Murray Hill (NJ), US; Bell Laboratories. Bell Telephone Laboratories Incorporated (1977). Engineering and Operations in the Bell System; Murray Hill (NJ), US; Bell Telephone Laboratories LCCN 77-84418. Western Electric Pamphlet (1983)  Reading Works; 20 Pages, Public Relations Department, Western Electric Reading Works; Reading (PA), US
 North American Company Profiles 1996 Pages 189-194
 North American Company Profiles 1997 Pages 205-210
 William F. Brinkman, William W. Troutman (1997). Key Steps to the Integrated Circuit; Bell Labs Technical Journal, Volume 2, Issue 4, Pages 15 – 28. Michael Riordan and Lillian Hoddeson (1997).Crystal Fire: The Invention of the Transistor and the Birth of the Information Age. New York: Norton. Melliar-Smith, C.M.; Borrus, M.G.; Haggan, D.E.; Lowrey, T.; Vincentelli, A.S.G.; Troutman, W.W. (1998) The transistor: an invention becomes a big business; Proceedings of the IEEE, Volume 86, Issue 1, January 1998 Page(s):86-110. Reading Eagle Company (1999).