[Domain: Propulsion | Subfield: Aerospace | Topic: Evaluation of an Ejector Ramjet Based Propulsion System for  | Type: NASA-TechReport | Level: Expert]

[NASA Technical Reports | Year: ]

Title: Evaluation of an Ejector Ramjet Based Propulsion System for Air-Breathing Hypersonic Flight

Abstract:
A Rocket Based Combined Cycle (RBCC) engine system is designed to combine the high thrust to weight ratio of a rocket along with the high specific impulse of a ramjet in a single, integrated propulsion system. This integrated, combined cycle propulsion system is designed to provide higher vehicle performance than that achievable with a separate rocket and ramjet. The RBCC engine system studied in the current program is the Aerojet strutjet engine concept, which is being developed jointly by a government-industry team as part of the Air Force HyTech program pre-PRDA activity. The strutjet is an ejector-ramjet engine in which small rocket chambers are embedded into the trailing edges of the inlet compression struts. The engine operates as an ejector-ramjet from take-off to slightly above Mach 3. Above Mach 3 the engine operates as a ramjet and transitions to a scramjet at high Mach numbers. For space launch applications the rockets would be re-ignited at a Mach number or altitude beyond which air-breathing propulsion alone becomes impractical. The focus of the present study is to develop and demonstrate a strutjet flowpath using hydrocarbon fuel at up to Mach 7 conditions. Freejet tests of a candidate flowpath for this RBCC engine were conducted at the NASA Lewis Research Center's Hypersonic Tunnel Facility between July and September 1996. This paper describes the engine flowpath and installation, outlines the primary objectives of the program, and describes the overall results of this activity. Through this program 15 full duration tests, including 13 fueled tests were made. The first major achievement was the further demonstration of the HTF capability. The facility operated at conditions up to 1950 K and 7.34 MPa, simulating approximately Mach 6.6 flight. The initial tests were unfueled and focused on verifying both facility and engine starting. During these runs additional aerodynamic appliances were incorporated onto the facility diffuser to enhance starting. Both facility and engine starting were achieved. Further, the static pressure distributions compared well with the results previously obtained in a 40% subscale flowpath study conducted in the LERC 1X1 supersonic wind tunnel (SWT), as well as the results of CFD analysis. Fueled performance results were obtained for the engine at both simulated Mach 6 (1670 K) and Mach 6.6 (1950 K) conditions. For all these tests the primary fuel was liquid JP-10 with gaseous silane (a mixture of 20% SiH4 and 80% H2 by volume) as an ignitor/pilot. These tests verified performance of this engine flowpath in a freejet mode. High combustor pressures were reached and significant changes in axial force were achieved due to combustion. Future test plans include redistributing the fuel to improve mixing, and consequently performance, at higher equivalence ratios.