[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: photodynamic therapy cancer clinical trial | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: photodynamic therapy cancer clinical trial]

35. Clin Transl Oncol. 2008 Mar;10(3):148-54. doi: 10.1007/s12094-008-0172-2.

Photodynamic therapy of cancer. Basic principles and applications.

Juarranz A(1), Jaén P, Sanz-Rodríguez F, Cuevas J, González S.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Biología, Facultad de Ciencias, Universidad Autónoma de 
Madrid, Madrid, Spain. angeles.juarranz@uam.es

Photodynamic therapy (PDT) is a minimally invasive therapeutic modality approved 
for clinical treatment of several types of cancer and non-oncological disorders. 
In PDT, a compound with photosensitising properties (photosensitiser, PS) is 
selectively accumulated in malignant tissues. The subsequent activation of the 
PS by visible light, preferentially in the red region of the visible spectrum 
(lambda>or=600 nm), where tissues are more permeable to light, generates 
reactive oxygen species, mainly singlet oxygen ((1)O(2)), responsible for 
cytotoxicity of neoplastic cells and tumour regression. There are three main 
mechanisms described by which (1)O(2) contributes to the destruction of tumours 
by PDT: direct cellular damage, vascular shutdown and activation of immune 
response against tumour cells. The advantages of PDT over other conventional 
cancer treatments are its low systemic toxicity and its ability to selectively 
destroy tumours accessible to light. Therefore, PDT is being used for the 
treatment of endoscopically accessible tumours such as lung, bladder, 
gastrointestinal and gynaecological neoplasms, and also in dermatology for the 
treatment of non-melanoma skin cancers (basal cell carcinoma) and precancerous 
diseases (actinic keratosis). Photofrin, ALA and its ester derivatives are the 
main compounds used in clinical trials, though newer and more efficient PSs are 
being evaluated nowadays.

DOI: 10.1007/s12094-008-0172-2
PMID: 18321817 [Indexed for MEDLINE]