[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS neurology | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS neurology]

51. Neurosci Lett. 2020 Feb 6;719:134355. doi: 10.1016/j.neulet.2019.134355. Epub
 2019 Jun 28.

Transcranial magnetic stimulation: Emerging biomarkers and novel therapeutics in 
Alzheimer's disease.

Koch G(1), Martorana A(2), Caltagirone C(3).

Author information:
(1)Non Invasive Brain Stimulation Unit/Department of Behavioral and Clinical 
Neurology, Santa Lucia Foundation IRCCS, Rome, Italy; Department of 
Neuroscience, Tor Vergata Policlinic, Rome, Italy. Electronic address: 
g.koch@hsantalucia.it.
(2)Department of Neuroscience, Tor Vergata Policlinic, Rome, Italy.
(3)Non Invasive Brain Stimulation Unit/Department of Behavioral and Clinical 
Neurology, Santa Lucia Foundation IRCCS, Rome, Italy.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is one of the most devastating conditions affecting 
elderly in Western World. Unfortunately, there are no effective treatments, and 
patients diagnosed with AD face an uncertain future, caused by the current 
inability to predict the course of the disease. This is mainly due to the poor 
comprehension of AD pathophysiology and of patients' clinical heterogeneity. In 
recent years, several evidences supported the concept that loss of synaptic 
density could be an early event and precede neuronal degeneration, suggesting 
that the impairment of synaptic transmission should play a key role in the 
pathogenesis of different forms of dementia, including AD, frontotemporal 
dementia and Lewy body dementia. Despite this emerging background it has not 
been possible to quantify synaptic functioning (or dysfunction) directly in vivo 
in AD patients. Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) has been recently 
introduced as a novel approach able to identify the early signatures of synaptic 
dysfunction characterizing the different forms of AD. We review the novel 
emerging neurophysiological signatures of AD and how this information may be 
used as biomarkers for differential diagnosis, disease progression and response 
to therapy. Finally, we also consider novel therapeutic approaches based on the 
clinical use of repetitive TMS.

Copyright © 2019. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neulet.2019.134355
PMID: 31260726 [Indexed for MEDLINE]