[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: Honokiol | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Honokiol — Overview

is honokiol's pro-apoptotic effects that it overcomes even notoriously drug resistant neoplasms such as multiple myeloma and chronic B-cell leukemia. Honokiol also acts on the PI3K/mTOR pathway in tumor cells while maintaining pathway activity in T cells. Neurotrophic activity Honokiol has been shown to promote neurite outgrowth and have neuroprotective effects in rat cortical neurons. Additionally, honokiol increases free cytoplasmic reforforason Ca2+ in rat cortical neurons. Honokiol is a weak CB2 receptor ligand but the naturally occurring derivative 4-O-methylhonokiol was shown to be a potent and selective cannabinoid CB2 receptor inverse agonist and to possess antiosteoclastic effects. Antithrombotic activity 
Honokiol inhibits platelet aggregation in rabbits in a dose-dependent manner, and protects cultured RAEC against oxidized low density lipoprotein injury. Honokiol significantly increases the prostacyclin metabolite 6-keto-PGF1alpha, potentially the key factor in honokiol's antithrombotic activity. Anti-inflammatory activity 
Studies examining honokiol as a protective therapy against focal cerebral ischemia-reperfusion injury have identified a number of anti-inflammatory pathways. Neutrophil infiltration of injured tissues can cause further damage and issues with healing. In in vitro studies, honokiol reduced fMLP (N-formyl-methionyl-leucyl-phenylalanine) and PMA (phorbol-12-myristate-13-acetate) induced neutrophil firm adhesion which is an integral step for infiltration. Honokiol inhibits ROS production in neutrophils. Honokiol also blocks inflammatory factor production in glial cells through the inhibition on NF-κB activation. This mechanism is believed to suppress production of NO, tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), and RANTES/CCL5. Antioxidant activity 
Honokiol has also been proposed as an antioxidant. The compound protects against lipid peroxidation by interfering with ROS production and migration. Accumulation of ROS extracellularly causes macromolecular damage while intracellular accumulation may induce cytokine activation. Cytotoxicity inhibition 
One way that honokiol acts as a neuroprotective is through cellular regulation and subsequent inhibition of cytotoxicity. Two mechanisms used to achieve this inhibition are GABAA Modulation and Ca2+ Inhibition. Cytotoxicity inhibition may be the neuroprotective mechanism of honokiol. Honokiol has also been shown to inhibit repetitive firing by blocking glutamate. GABAA modulation 

It is believed that honokiol acts on GABAA receptors similarly to benzodiazepines and Z-drugs. However, honokiol has been shown to achieve anxiolysis with fewer motor or cognitive side effects than GABAA receptor agonists such as flurazepam and diazepam. It has been shown that honokiol likely has a higher selectivity for different GABAA receptor subtypes and both magnolol and honokiol showed higher efficacy when acting on receptors containing δ subunits. GABAA receptors control ligand-gated Cl− channels that can help increase seizure thresholds through the influx of chloride anions. Honokiol may also affect the synthesis of GABA. In a study where mice received seven daily injections of honokiol, researchers observed a mild increase in hippocampal levels of glutamate decarboxylase (GAD67) an enzyme that catalyzes the synthesis of GABA. However, the increase was within the margin of error for the method used to quantify the protein. Ca2+ inhibition 
A high concentration of Ca2+ induces excitotoxicity which is believed to be the main mechanism behind movement disorders such as ALS, Parkinson's disease, and convulsive disorders like epilepsy. Honokiol disrupts the interfaces post synaptic density protein (PSD95) and neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS). PSD95 and nNOS coupling to the NMDA receptor causes a conformational change responsible for the intracellular influx of Ca2+ which could in turn be a pathway for neurotoxicity. Calcium overloading can also cause damage by over-activation of calcium-stimulated enzymes. Honokiol can reduce calcium influx through inhibition of the fMLP, AlF4−, and thapsigargin G-protein pathways. Antiviral activity 
Honokiol has been shown to inhibit hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection in vitro. It has weak in vitro activity against human immunodeficiency virus (HIV-1). Metabolic activity 
Honokiol was shown to normalize blood glucose levels and prevent body weight gain in diabetic mice by acting as agonist of PPARgamma. Pharmacokinetics 
The pharmacokinetics of honokiol have been explored in rats and mice; however, further research must be done in humans. Intravenous delivery of 5–10 mg/kg in rodent models has shown a plasma half-life of around 40–60 minutes while intraperitoneal injections of 250 mg/kg had a plasma half-life around 4–6 hours with maximum plasma concentration occurring between 20 and 30 minutes. Delivery methods 
Honokiol is most commonly taken orally. There are a number of supplements available containing honokiol. Magnolia tea made from the bark of the tree is also a common delivery method of honokiol.