[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: Mugwort | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Mugwort — Overview

Korea is in moxibustion, where Mugwort is burned on pressure points of the body, much like acupuncture. It is also said that the people of the Joseon Dynasty rinsed their mouths and bodies with mugwort water to clean themselves. North America Indigenous peoples of North America used mugwort for a number of medicinal purposes. Strong, bitter-tasting pasture sagewort tea was taken to treat colds and fevers. Mugwort was used in washes and salves to treat bruises, itching, sores, poison ivy, eczema, and underarm or foot odour. The leaves were dried, crushed, and used as a snuff to relieve congestion, nosebleeds, and headaches. Frequently, to improve taste and absorption, Mugwort Tea is made by crushing the leaves, and steeping with other ingredients. Tarragon plants were boiled to make washes and poultices for treating swollen feet and legs and snow blindness. Some tribes called western mugwort 'women's sage' because the leaf tea was taken to correct menstrual irregularity. It was taken to relieve indigestion, coughs, and chest infections. Western mugwort smoke was used to disinfect contaminated areas and revive patients from comas. Northern wormwood tea was taken to relieve difficulties with urination or bowel movements, to ease delivery of babies, and to cause abortions. Side effects

Allergies 
Mugwort pollen is one of the main sources of hay fever and allergic asthma in North Europe, North America, and parts of Asia. Mugwort pollen generally travels less than 2,000 meters. The highest concentration of mugwort pollen is generally found between 9 and 11 am. The Finnish allergy association recommends tearing as a method of eradicating mugwort. Tearing mugwort is known to lessen the effect of the allergy, since the pollen flies only a short distance. Cut flowers before they bloom to avoid allergens and reproduction of the plant. Toxicity 
Mugwort often contains the neurotoxin compound thujone, though this varies greatly by species and the environmental conditions where the plant is grown. Toxicity to humans is believed to be weak, though some studies have linked high concentrations of thujone to seizures and an abortive effect. The Botanical Safety Handbook suggests the Mugwort not be used during pregnancy unless it is under the supervision of a medical expert. In rare cases, minor allergic skin reactions have been recorded in relation to moxibustion, or the burning of dried Mugwort. See also
 Dysphania ambrosioides, a plant with a similar flavour profile used in North and South American cuisines. Eucosma metzneriana, moth that feeds on this plant
 List of plants known as mugwort
 Ssukcha, traditional Korean drink

References

Abortifacients
Herbs
Medicinal plants
European witchcraft
Plant common names