[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: Antioxidant, anti-inflammatory and antiarthritic potential o | Type: OpenAlex-OA | Level: Graduate]

[OpenAlex | Herbal Medicine | Year: 2019 | Citations: 192]

Title: Antioxidant, anti-inflammatory and antiarthritic potential of Moringa oleifera Lam: An ethnomedicinal plant of Moringaceae family

Abstract:
Medicinal plants are increasingly being evaluated for the treatment of chronic disorders. This study was aimed at assessing anti-arthritic potential of Moringa oleifera (wild type). Different extracts of the plant leaves were prepared and evaluated for the presence and quantification of phytochemicals. The plant extracts were assessed for in vitro antioxidant activity by different methods followed by in vitro anti-inflammatory assays such as protein denaturation, membrane stabilization and anti-proteinase activities. The plant extracts were further assessed in Wistar rats by formaldehyde induced arthritis model at 150, 300 and 600 mg/kg dosage level. Chemical analysis showed that methanolic and aqueous extracts contained the highest total phenolic and flavonoid contents. Kaempferol, gallic acid, vanillic acid, coumaric acid and quercetin were detected and quantified in the plant extracts. It was found that the methanolic, aqueous and ethyl acetate extracts had exhibited the maximum in vitro antioxidant potential. These extracts also exhibited a decrease in protein denaturation, prevented lysis of red blood cell membranes and showed anti-proteinase activities. These extracts showed significant inhibition in paw inflammation and prevented arthritis induced anemia and weight loss in rats in dose dependent manner. The outcomes of this research indicated that all extracts of M. oleifera had exerted significant antioxidant and anti-arthritic potential in rats in dose dependent manner. Anti-arthritic activity of M. oleifera might be due to the scavenging of free radicals, inhibition of protein denaturation, membrane stabilization and anti-proteinase activity.