[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: traditional Chinese medicine herbs mechanism actio | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: traditional Chinese medicine herbs mechanism action]

21. Chin Med J (Engl). 2013 Feb;126(4):756-60.

Mechanism of traditional Chinese medicine in the treatment of allergic rhinitis.

Guo H(1), Liu MP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Otolaryngology, Guangdong Second Provincial Traditional Chinese 
Medicine Hospital, Guangzhou, Guangdong 510095, China. guo256@yahoo.cn

OBJECTIVE: To review the major progress in mechanism of traditional Chinese 
medicine (TCM) in the treatment of allergic rhinitis (AR).
METHODS: Contents about the treatment mechanism of TCM in the therapy of AR in 
this article were obtained from 22 original articles and reviews published in 
Chinese- and English-language journals. All of the references were searched by 
use of Pubmed (1997 - 2012).
RESULTS: AR is one of the most common and most serious public health problems in 
children and young people. Many AR patients were worried about the possible 
adverse effects of synthetic drugs they were taking. Thus, they seek 
complementary and alternative therapy, such as TCM. TCM emphasized on the 
importance of holistic convalescence, not just the disease itself. The favorable 
safety profile of TCM makes well-acceptance by the general population. In the 
recent decade, more and more studies of TCM for AR are developed. These studies 
indicated that the treatment of allergic disorders with TCM therapy including 
herbal medicines and acupuncture are of safety and efficacy. The mechanism of 
TCM in the treatment of AR has been discussed. It has been reported that a 
number of the herbs in the Chinese herbal formulae used in the treatment possess 
anti-allergic, anti-inflammatory or immune modulation activity. Such function 
include the inhibition of the release or the activity of mast cell mediators 
(such as histamine), inhibition the induction of inflammation reaction by 
chemical agents, and down regulation of serum (immunoglobulin E) IgE levels or 
the activity of lymphocyte and/or macrophage.
CONCLUSIONS: TCM are frequently used concurrently to improve the clinical 
efficacy. This review is focuses on the description of the actions mechanism of 
Chinese medicine's approach relevant to the treatment of AR.

PMID: 23422202 [Indexed for MEDLINE]