[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: MRI physics image quality artifact reduction | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: MRI physics image quality artifact reduction]

91. Neuroimage. 2014 Jan 1;84:307-19. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2013.08.039. Epub
 2013 Aug 28.

Reference layer artefact subtraction (RLAS): a novel method of minimizing EEG 
artefacts during simultaneous fMRI.

Chowdhury ME(1), Mullinger KJ, Glover P, Bowtell R.

Author information:
(1)Sir Peter Mansfield Magnetic Resonance Centre, School of Physics & Astronomy, 
University of Nottingham, Nottingham NG7 2RD, UK.

Large artefacts compromise EEG data quality during simultaneous fMRI. These 
artefact voltages pose heavy demands on the bandwidth and dynamic range of EEG 
amplifiers and mean that even small fractional variations in the artefact 
voltages give rise to significant residual artefacts after average artefact 
subtraction. Any intrinsic reduction in the magnitude of the artefacts would be 
highly advantageous, allowing data with a higher bandwidth to be acquired 
without amplifier saturation, as well as reducing the residual artefacts that 
can easily swamp signals from brain activity measured using current methods. 
Since these problems currently limit the utility of simultaneous EEG-fMRI, new 
approaches for reducing the magnitude and variability of the artefacts are 
required. One such approach is the use of an EEG cap that incorporates 
electrodes embedded in a reference layer that has similar conductivity to tissue 
and is electrically isolated from the scalp. With this arrangement, the artefact 
voltages produced on the reference layer leads by time-varying field gradients, 
cardiac pulsation and subject movement are similar to those induced in the scalp 
leads, but neuronal signals are not detected in the reference layer. Taking the 
difference of the voltages in the reference and scalp channels will therefore 
reduce the artefacts, without affecting sensitivity to neuronal signals. Here, 
we test this approach by using a simple experimental realisation of the 
reference layer to investigate the artefacts induced on the leads attached to 
the reference layer and scalp and to evaluate the degree of artefact attenuation 
that can be achieved via reference layer artefact subtraction (RLAS). Through a 
series of experiments on phantoms and human subjects, we show that RLAS 
significantly reduces the gradient (GA), pulse (PA) and motion (MA) artefacts, 
while allowing accurate recording of neuronal signals. The results indicate that 
RLAS generally outperforms AAS when motion is present in the removal of the GA 
and PA, while the combination of AAS and RLAS always produces higher artefact 
attenuation than AAS. Additionally, we demonstrate that RLAS greatly attenuates 
the unpredictable and highly variable MAs that are very hard to remove using 
post-processing methods.

© 2013. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2013.08.039
PMID: 23994127 [Indexed for MEDLINE]