[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: MRI physics image quality artifact reduction | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: MRI physics image quality artifact reduction]

96. World J Radiol. 2018 Sep 28;10(9):100-107. doi: 10.4329/wjr.v10.i9.100.

Optimized cardiac magnetic resonance imaging inversion recovery sequence for 
metal artifact reduction and accurate myocardial scar assessment in patients 
with cardiac implantable electronic devices.

Ibrahim EH(1), Runge M(2), Stojanovska J(2), Agarwal P(2), Ghadimi-Mahani M(2), 
Attili A(2), Chenevert T(2), den Harder C(3), Bogun F(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Medical College of Wisconsin, Milwaukee, WI 53226, 
United States. eibrahim@mcw.edu.
(2)Department of Radiology, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI 48109, United 
States.
(3)Department of Medical Physics, Leiden University Medical Center, Leiden 
2333ZA, The Netherlands.

Late gadolinium enhancement (LGE) cardiovascular magnetic resonance (CMR) is the 
gold standard for imaging myocardial viability. An important application of LGE 
CMR is the assessment of the location and extent of the myocardial scar in 
patients with ventricular tachycardia (VT), which allows for more accurate 
identification of the ablation targets. However, a large percentage of patients 
with VT have cardiac implantable electronic devices (CIEDs), which is a relative 
contraindication for cardiac magnetic resonance imaging due to safety and image 
artifact concerns. Previous studies showed that these patients can be safely 
scanned on 1.5 T scanners provided that an adequate imaging protocol is adopted. 
Nevertheless, imaging patients with a CIED result in metal artifacts due to the 
strong frequency off-resonance effects near the device; therefore, the spins in 
the surrounding myocardium are not completely inverted, and thus give rise to 
hyperintensity artifacts. These artifacts obscure the myocardial scar tissue and 
limit the ability to study the correlation between the myocardial scar structure 
and the electro-anatomical map during catheter ablation. In this study, we 
developed a modified inversion recovery technique to alleviate the CIED-induced 
metal artifacts and improve the diagnostic image quality of LGE images in 
patients with CIEDs without increasing scan time or requiring additional 
hardware. The developed technique was tested in phantom experiments and in vivo 
scans, which showed its capability for suppressing the hyperintensity artifacts 
without compromising myocardium nulling in the resulting LGE images.

DOI: 10.4329/wjr.v10.i9.100
PMCID: PMC6177559
PMID: 30310544

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict-of-interest statement: The authors do 
not have conflicts of interest to declare.