[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: crystal structure protein drug target binding | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: crystal structure protein drug target binding]

45. Methods Mol Biol. 2012;841:161-77. doi: 10.1007/978-1-61779-520-6_7.

Crystallographic fragment screening.

Badger J(1).

Author information:
(1)Zenobia Therapeutics, San Diego, CA, USA. info1.dgtech@gmail.com

Crystallographic fragment screening is a technique for initiating drug discovery 
in which protein crystals are soaked or grown with high concentrations of small 
molecule compounds (typically MW 110-250 Da) chosen to represent fragments of 
potential drugs. Specific binding of these compounds to the protein is 
subsequently visualized in electron density maps obtained from analysis of X-ray 
diffraction data collected from these crystals. Theoretical and practical 
experience indicate that a suitably diverse library of fragment compounds 
containing only a few hundred compounds may be sufficient to provide a 
comprehensive screen of the protein target. By soaking crystals in mixtures of 
3-10 compounds a fragment screen may be completed within ∼100 diffraction data 
sets. This data collection requirement may be met given reproducible 
well-diffracting protein crystals and robotic sample handling equipment at a 
high flux X-ray source. The leading practical issue for most crystallography 
laboratories that wish to launch a fragment screening project is the design 
and/or procurement of an appropriate fragment library. Although several 
off-the-shelf fragment libraries are available from chemical suppliers, the 
numbers, sizes, and solubility of the compounds in relatively few of these 
libraries are well-match to the specific needs of the crystallographic screening 
experiment. Informed consideration of the properties of compounds in the 
screening library, possibly augmented by additional filtering of available 
compounds with appropriate search tools, is required to design a successful 
experiment. The analysis of results from crystallographic fragment screening 
involves highly repetitive application of routine image data processing and 
structure refinement calculations from many very similar crystals. Efficient 
handling of the data applies a high-throughput structure determination 
methodology that conveniently packages the structure solution calculations into 
a single process that provides the crystallographer-analyst with ready-to-view 
maps for evaluating crystals for bound compounds.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-61779-520-6_7
PMID: 22222452 [Indexed for MEDLINE]