[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: low-level laser therapy wound healing pain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: low-level laser therapy wound healing pain]

79. J Clin Laser Med Surg. 2000 Apr;18(2):67-73. doi: 10.1089/clm.2000.18.67.

Wound healing of animal and human body sport and traffic accident injuries using 
low-level laser therapy treatment: a randomized clinical study of seventy-four 
patients with control group.

Simunovic Z(1), Ivankovich AD, Depolo A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesiology, La Caritá Medical Center, Laser Center, 
Locarno, Switzerland. info@lasermedico.ch

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: The main objective of current animal and clinical 
studies was to assess the efficacy of low level laser therapy (LLLT) on wound 
healing in rabbits and humans.
STUDY DESIGN/MATERIALS AND METHODS: In the initial part of our research we 
conducted a randomized controlled animal study, where we evaluated the effects 
of laser irradiation on the healing of surgical wounds on rabbits. The manner of 
the application of LLLT on the human body are analogous to those of similar 
physiologic structure in animal tissue, therefore, this study was continued on 
humans. Clinical study was performed on 74 patients with injuries to the 
following anatomic locations: ankle and knee, bilaterally, Achilles tendon; 
epicondylus; shoulder; wrist; interphalangeal joints of hands, unilaterally. All 
patients had had surgical procedure prior to LLLT. Two types of laser devices 
were used: infrared diode laser (GaAlAs) 830 nm continuous wave for treatment of 
trigger points (TPs) and HeNe 632.8 nm combined with diode laser 904-nm pulsed 
wave for scanning procedure. Both were applied as monotherapy during current 
clinical study. The results were observed and measured according to the 
following clinical parameters: redness, heat, pain, swelling and loss of 
function, and finally postponed to statistical analysis via chi2 test.
RESULTS: After comparing the healing process between two groups of patients, we 
obtained the following results: wound healing was significantly accelerated 
(25%-35%) in the group of patients treated with LLLT. Pain relief and functional 
recovery of patients treated with LLLT were significantly improved comparing to 
untreated patients.
CONCLUSION: In addition to accelerated wound healing, the main advantages of 
LLLT for postoperative sport- and traffic-related injuries include prevention of 
side effects of drugs, significantly accelerated functional recovery, earlier 
return to work, training and sport competition compared to the control group of 
patients, and cost benefit.

DOI: 10.1089/clm.2000.18.67
PMID: 11800105 [Indexed for MEDLINE]