[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: biomaterial implant osseointegration titanium clin | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: biomaterial implant osseointegration titanium clinical]

68. Acta Biomater. 2024 Oct 15;188:138-156. doi: 10.1016/j.actbio.2024.09.010.
Epub  2024 Sep 17.

Mussel-inspired bifunctional coating for long-term stability of oral implants.

Wang M(1), Li J(1), Geng M(1), Yang Z(1), Xi A(1), Yu Y(1), Liu B(1), Tay FR(2), 
Gou Y(3).

Author information:
(1)School/Hospital of Stomatology, Lanzhou University, China; Key Laboratory of 
Dental Maxillofacial Reconstruction and Biological Intelligence Manufacturing of 
Gansu Province, Lanzhou, 730000, Gansu Province, China.
(2)The Dental College of Georgia, Augusta University, Augusta, GA, USA. 
Electronic address: tayfranklin7@gmail.com.
(3)School/Hospital of Stomatology, Lanzhou University, China; Key Laboratory of 
Dental Maxillofacial Reconstruction and Biological Intelligence Manufacturing of 
Gansu Province, Lanzhou, 730000, Gansu Province, China. Electronic address: 
gouyp@lzu.edu.cn.

Peri-implantitis and osseointegration failure present considerable challenges to 
the prolonged stability of oral implants. To address these issues, there is an 
escalating demand for a resilient implant surface coating that seamlessly 
integrates antimicrobial features to combat bacteria-induced peri‑implantitis, 
and osteogenic properties to promote bone formation. In the present study, a 
bio-inspired poly(amidoamine) dendrimer (DA-PAMAM-NH2) is synthesized by 
utilizing a mussel protein (DA) known for its strong adherence to various 
materials. Conjugating DA with PAMAM-NH2, inherently endowed with antibacterial 
and osteogenic properties, results in a robust and multifunctional coating. 
Robust adhesion between DA-PAMAM-NH2 and the titanium alloy surface is 
identified using confocal laser scanning microscopy (CLSM) and attenuated total 
reflectance-infrared (ATR-IR) spectroscopy. Following a four-week immersion of 
the coated titanium alloy surface in simulated body fluid (SBF), the 
antimicrobial activity and superior osteogenesis of the DA-PAMAM-NH2-coated 
surface remain stable. In contrast, the bifunctional effects of the 
PAMAM-NH2-coated surface diminish after the same immersion period. In vivo 
animal experiments validate the enduring antimicrobial and osteogenic properties 
of DA-PAMAM-NH2-coated titanium alloy implants, significantly enhancing the 
long-term stability of the implants. This innovative coating holds promise for 
addressing the multifaceted challenges associated with peri‑implantitis and 
osseointegration failure in titanium-based implants. STATEMENT OF SIGNIFICANCE: 
Prolonged stability of oral implants remains a clinically-significant challenge. 
Peri-implantitis and osseointegration failure are two important contributors to 
the poor stability of oral implants. The present study developed a 
mussel-bioinspired poly(amidoamine) dendrimer (DA-PAMAM-NH2) for a resilient 
implant surface coating that seamlessly integrates antimicrobial features to 
combat bacteria-induced peri‑implantitis, and osteogenic properties to promote 
bone formation to extend the longevity of oral implants.

Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.actbio.2024.09.010
PMID: 39299623 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.