[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: traditional Chinese medicine herbs mechanism actio | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: traditional Chinese medicine herbs mechanism action]

18. Front Pharmacol. 2024 Jun 4;15:1379058. doi: 10.3389/fphar.2024.1379058. 
eCollection 2024.

Ferroptosis: a new mechanism of traditional Chinese medicine for treating 
ulcerative colitis.

Wang Y(1), Hao Y(2), Yuan L(1), Tian H(1), Sun X(1), Zhang Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Hospital of Chengdu University of Traditional 
Chinese Medicine, Chengdu, China.
(2)Department of Geriatrics, Hospital of Chengdu University of Traditional 
Chinese Medicine, Chengdu, China.

Ulcerative colitis (UC), a subtype of inflammatory bowel disease, manifests with 
symptoms such as abdominal pain, diarrhea, and mucopurulent, bloody stools. The 
pathogenesis of UC is not fully understood. At present, the incidence of UC has 
increased significantly around the world. Conventional therapeutic arsenals are 
relatively limited, with often poor efficacy and many adverse effects. In 
contrast, traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) holds promise due to their notable 
effectiveness, reduced recurrence rates, and minimal side effects. In recent 
years, significant progress has been made in the basic research on TCM for UC 
treatment. It has been found that the inhibition of ferroptosis through the 
intervention of TCM can significantly promote intestinal mucosal healing and 
reverse UC. The mechanism of action involves multiple targets and pathways.
AIM OF THE REVIEW: This review summarizes the experimental studies on the 
targeted regulation of ferroptosis by TCM and its impact on UC in recent years, 
aiming to provide theoretical basis for the prevention, treatment, and further 
drug development for UC.
RESULTS: Ferroptosis disrupts antioxidant mechanisms in intestinal epithelial 
cells, damages the intestinal mucosa, and participates in the pathological 
process of UC. TCM acts on various pathways such as Nrf2/HO-1 and GSH/GPX4, 
blocking the pathological progression of ferroptosis in intestinal epithelial 
cells, inhibiting pathological damage to the intestinal mucosa, and thereby 
alleviating UC.
CONCLUSION: The diverse array of TCM single herbs, extracts and herbal formulas 
facilitates selective and innovative research and development of new TCM methods 
for targeting UC treatment. Although progress has been made in studying TCM 
compound formulas, single herbs, and extracts, there are still many issues in 
clinical and basic experimental designs, necessitating further in-depth 
scientific exploration and research.

Copyright © 2024 Wang, Hao, Yuan, Tian, Sun and Zhang.

DOI: 10.3389/fphar.2024.1379058
PMCID: PMC11184165
PMID: 38895617

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.