[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: optical coherence tomography retinal diagnosis | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: optical coherence tomography retinal diagnosis]

23. Prog Retin Eye Res. 2017 Jul;59:178-201. doi:
10.1016/j.preteyeres.2017.04.005.  Epub 2017 Apr 29.

The application of optical coherence tomography angiography in uveitis and 
inflammatory eye diseases.

Pichi F(1), Sarraf D(2), Arepalli S(3), Lowder CY(3), Cunningham ET Jr(4), Neri 
P(5), Albini TA(6), Gupta V(7), Baynes K(3), Srivastava SK(3).

Author information:
(1)Cleveland Clinic Abu Dhabi, Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates; Cole Eye 
Institute, Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, OH, USA. Electronic address: 
ilmiticopicchio@gmail.com.
(2)Stein Eye Institute, University of California, Los Angeles, Los Angeles, CA, 
USA; Greater Los Angeles VA Healthcare Center, Los Angeles, CA, USA.
(3)Cole Eye Institute, Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, OH, USA.
(4)The Department of Ophthalmology, California Pacific Medical Center, San 
Francisco, CA, USA; The Department of Ophthalmology, Stanford University School 
of Medicine, Stanford, CA, USA; The Francis I. Proctor Foundation, UCSF School 
of Medicine, San Francisco, CA, USA; West Coast Retina Medical Group, San 
Francisco, CA, USA.
(5)The Ocular Immunology Service, The Eye Clinic, Polytechnic University of 
Marche, Ancona, Italy.
(6)Bascom Palmer Eye Institute, University of Miami-Miller School of Medicine, 
Miami, FL, USA.
(7)Advanced Eye Centre, Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and 
Research, Chandigarh, India.

Since its introduction in the early 1990s, optical coherence tomography (OCT) 
has evolved in resolution and technological advances, and in recent years its 
initial application of assessing the morphology of a tissue has been implemented 
by the study of its functional blood flow, through optical coherence tomography 
angiography (OCTA). This novel technique details capillary networks by comparing 
the amount of light returned from static and moving targets without the need for 
intravenous dye administration. While this imaging modality has been used for 
various ocular conditions, the application OCTA to uveitis conditions remains 
sparse. This review aims to establish the basis of OCTA and its current 
application to ocular inflammatory disorders, with an emphasis on monitoring 
progression and response to treatment, as well as predicting visual 
complications. In particular, this review explores the use of OCTA in iris 
vessel dilation seen in various forms of iritis, as a predictive factor for 
further episodes of inflammation. OCTA can also depict ischemia in the deep 
plexus layers of the retina and identify true choroicapillaris ischemia in cases 
of placoid diseases or masking of the indocyanine green dye, as in multiple 
evanescent white dot syndrome. In addition, OCTA can depict neovascularization 
in granulomatous disease of the retina or choroid not previously depicted with 
previous imaging methods. While OCTA provides several advancements in the 
imaging, management and prognosis of uveitis diseases, we emphasize that further 
studies are required to fully understand its application to these conditions.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.preteyeres.2017.04.005
PMID: 28465249 [Indexed for MEDLINE]