[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: magnetic nanoparticle hyperthermia cancer therapy | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: magnetic nanoparticle hyperthermia cancer therapy]

90. Methods Mol Biol. 2023;2645:251-261. doi: 10.1007/978-1-0716-3056-3_16.

Testing the Effects of Magnetic Hyperthermia in 2D Cell Culture.

Hannon G(1)(2), Prina-Mello A(3)(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Biological Characterization of Advanced Materials (LBCAM), 
Trinity Translational Medicine Institute, Trinity College Dublin, Dublin, 
Ireland. hannonga@tcd.ie.
(2)Trinity St. James's Cancer Institute, St. James's Hospital, Trinity College 
Dublin, Dublin, Ireland. hannonga@tcd.ie.
(3)Laboratory of Biological Characterization of Advanced Materials (LBCAM), 
Trinity Translational Medicine Institute, Trinity College Dublin, Dublin, 
Ireland.
(4)Trinity St. James's Cancer Institute, St. James's Hospital, Trinity College 
Dublin, Dublin, Ireland.
(5)Advanced Materials and Bioengineering Research (AMBER) Centre, CRANN 
Institute, Trinity College Dublin, Dublin, Ireland.

Magnetic hyperthermia is an innovative thermal therapy for the treatment of 
solid malignancies. This treatment approach utilizes magnetic nanoparticles that 
are stimulated by alternating magnetic fields to induce temperature elevations 
in tumor tissue, resulting in cell death. Magnetic hyperthermia is clinically 
approved for treating glioblastoma in Europe and is undergoing clinical 
evaluation for prostate cancer in the United States. Numerous studies have also 
demonstrated efficacy in other cancers, however, and its potential utility 
extends far beyond its current clinical indications. Despite this great promise, 
assessing the initial efficacy of magnetic hyperthermia in vitro is a 
complicated endeavor, with multiple hurdles worth considering, such as accurate 
thermal monitoring, accounting for nanoparticle interference, and a myriad of 
treatment controls that make robust experimental planning essential to evaluate 
treatment outcome. Presented here is an optimized magnetic hyperthermia 
treatment protocol to test the primary mechanism of cell death in vitro. This 
protocol can be applied to any cell line and ensures accurate temperature 
measurements, minimal nanoparticle interference, and controls for multiple 
factors that can influence experimental outcome.

© 2023. The Author(s), under exclusive license to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-0716-3056-3_16
PMID: 37202625 [Indexed for MEDLINE]