[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: traditional Chinese medicine herbs mechanism actio | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: traditional Chinese medicine herbs mechanism action]

44. Biosci Trends. 2017;11(5):496-506. doi: 10.5582/bst.2017.01216.

Chinese single herbs and active ingredients for postmenopausal osteoporosis: 
From preclinical evidence to action mechanism.

Lin J(1)(2)(3), Zhu J(4), Wang Y(1)(2)(3), Zhang N(1)(2)(3), Gober HJ(5), Qiu 
X(1)(2)(3), Li D(1)(2)(3), Wang L(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory for Reproductive Immunology, Hospital & Institute of Obstetrics 
and Gynecology, Shanghai Medical College, Fudan University.
(2)The Academy of Integrative Medicine of Fudan University.
(3)Shanghai Key Laboratory of Female Reproductive Endocrine-related Diseases.
(4)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Wenling People's Hospital, Wenzhou 
Medical University.
(5)Department of Pharmacy, Kepler University Clinic, Neuromed Campus.

Postmenopausal osteoporosis is a systemic metabolic skeletal disease generally 
ascribable to a dearth of estrogen. Whether traditional Chinese medicine is 
effective in management of postmenopausal osteoporosis remains unclear. This 
article reviews the experimental evidence of both in vitro and in vivo 
preclinical studies with the theme of the application of Chinese single herbs 
and active ingredients in postmenopausal osteoporosis. It includes three single 
herbs (Herba Epimedium, Rhizoma Drynariae, and Salvia miltiorrhiza) and eight 
active ingredients (saikosaponins, linarin, echinacoside, sweroside, psoralen, 
poncirin, vanillic acid, and osthole). The experimental studies indicated their 
potential use as treatment for postmenopausal osteoporosis and investigated the 
underlying mechanisms including osteoprotegerin/receptor activator of nuclear 
factor κB ligand (OPG/RANKL), extracellular-signal-regulated kinase/c-Jun N 
terminal kinase/mitogen-activated protein kinase (ERK/JNK/MAPK), estrogen 
receptor (ER), bone morphogenetic protein (BMP), transforming growth factor 
(TGF)-β, Wnt/β-catenin, and Notch signaling pathways. This review contributes to 
a better understanding of traditional Chinese medicine and provides useful 
information for the development of more effective anti-osteoporosis drugs.

DOI: 10.5582/bst.2017.01216
PMID: 29151553 [Indexed for MEDLINE]