[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: traditional Chinese medicine herbs mechanism actio | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: traditional Chinese medicine herbs mechanism action]

56. Endocr Metab Immune Disord Drug Targets. 2008 Jun;8(2):99-111. doi: 
10.2174/187153008784534330.

Traditional chinese medicine in treatment of metabolic syndrome.

Yin J(1), Zhang H, Ye J.

Author information:
(1)Pennington Biomedical Research Center, Louisana State University System, 
Baton Rouge, LA 70808, USA.

In management of metabolic syndrome, the traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) is 
an excellent representative in alternative and complementary medicines with a 
complete theory system and substantial herb remedies. In this article, basic 
principle of TCM is introduced and 25 traditional Chinese herbs are reviewed for 
their potential activities in the treatment of metabolic syndrome. Three herbs, 
ginseng, rhizoma coptidis (berberine, the major active compound) and bitter 
melon, were discussed in detail on their therapeutic potentials. Ginseng 
extracts made from root, rootlet, berry and leaf of Panax quinquefolium 
(American ginseng) and Panax ginseng (Asian ginseng), are proved for 
anti-hyperglycemia, insulin sensitization, islet protection, anti-obesity and 
anti-oxidation in many model systems. Energy expenditure is enhanced by ginseng 
through thermogenesis. Ginseng-specific saponins (ginsenosides) are considered 
as the major bioactive compounds for the metabolic activities of ginseng. 
Berberine from rhizoma coptidis is an oral hypoglycemic agent. It also has 
anti-obesity and anti-dyslipidemia activities. The action mechanism is related 
to inhibition of mitochondrial function, stimulation of glycolysis, activation 
of AMPK pathway, suppression of adipogenesis and induction of low-density 
lipoprotein (LDL) receptor expression. Bitter melon or bitter gourd (Momordica 
charantia) is able to reduce blood glucose and lipids in both normal and 
diabetic animals. It may also protect beta cells, enhance insulin sensitivity 
and reduce oxidative stress. Although evidence from animals and humans supports 
the therapeutic activities of ginseng, berberine and bitter melon, multi-center 
large-scale clinical trials have not been conducted to evaluate the efficacy and 
safety of these herbal medicines.

DOI: 10.2174/187153008784534330
PMCID: PMC2467395
PMID: 18537696 [Indexed for MEDLINE]