[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: cannabis cannabidiol therapeutic epilepsy pain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: cannabis cannabidiol therapeutic epilepsy pain]

48. Biomed Pharmacother. 2025 Nov;192:118673. doi: 10.1016/j.biopha.2025.118673. 
Epub 2025 Oct 24.

Perspectives of cannabis-based medicines in a view of pharmacokinetic studies of 
Δ9-THC and CBD in humans.

Kaszewska M(1), Woźniczka K(1), Sztormowska-Achranowicz K(2), Mosińska A(1), 
Trojan V(3), Schreiber P(4), Balog N(4), Bączek T(1), Roszkowska A(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, Faculty of Pharmacy, Medical 
University of Gdańsk, Gdańsk, Poland.
(2)Department of Pharmacology, Faculty of Medicine, Medical University of 
Gdańsk, Gdańsk, Poland.
(3)Cannabis Facility, St. Anne's University Hospital Brno, Brno, Czech Republic; 
Department of Natural Drugs, Faculty of Pharmacy, Masaryk University, Brno, 
Czech Republic.
(4)Cannabis Facility, St. Anne's University Hospital Brno, Brno, Czech Republic.
(5)Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, Faculty of Pharmacy, Medical 
University of Gdańsk, Gdańsk, Poland. Electronic address: 
anna.roszkowska@gumed.edu.pl.

The pharmacokinetic (PK) profiling of major plant cannabinoids 
(phytocannabinoids, PCs), i.e., Δ9-tetrahydrocannabinol (Δ9-THC) and cannabidiol 
(CBD), is an important contribution to the search for novel therapeutic 
applications, optimal drug formulations and time of dosing in specific disease 
conditions. Final products of medicinal cannabis with dominant content of Δ9-THC 
or CBD or equal composition of both PCs are available in multiple formulations, 
and can also be administered via different routes, including inhalation 
(smoking/vaporization), oral consumption, or topical application. Clinical 
studies on healthy volunteers and patients demonstrate how dosage, route of 
administration, co-administered compounds, and formulation types influence PK 
parameters, such as Cmax, Tmax, and AUC values. This comprehensive review 
explores the PK and clinical applications of Δ9-THC and CBD with emphasis on the 
metabolism of both compounds, and therapeutic and side effects reported in 
preclinical and clinical trials performed in the past 5 years. In patients, both 
PCs demonstrate efficacy for conditions such as epilepsy, chronic pain, and 
anxiety. However, Δ9-THC and CBD undergo extensive hepatic metabolism primarily 
via cytochrome P450 enzymes, producing both active and inactive metabolites, 
with interindividual variability influenced by genetics, sex, and drug 
interactions. Moreover, various drug formulations, including oral, inhaled, 
transdermal, and oromucosal, affect the PK profile and therapeutic efficacy of 
each compound, although novel delivery systems (e.g., nanoformulations, inhaled 
powders) show promise in enhancing bioavailability. This review highlights the 
need for individualized dosing strategies, considering patient-specific factors, 
and underscores the necessity for further research into formulation development 
and long-term safety.

Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biopha.2025.118673
PMID: 41138659 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.