[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS neurology | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: transcranial magnetic stimulation TMS neurology]

13. J Child Neurol. 2015 Aug;30(9):1111-24. doi: 10.1177/0883073814553274. Epub
2014  Oct 23.

Clinical Applications of Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation in Pediatric 
Neurology.

Narayana S(1), Papanicolaou AC(2), McGregor A(3), Boop FA(4), Wheless JW(3).

Author information:
(1)Division of Clinical Neurosciences, Department of Pediatrics, University of 
Tennessee Health Science Center, Memphis, TN, USA Le Bonheur Neuroscience 
Institute, Le Bonheur Children's Hospital, Memphis, TN, USA Department of 
Neurobiology and Anatomy, University of Tennessee Health Science Center, 
Memphis, TN, USA snaraya2@uthsc.edu.
(2)Division of Clinical Neurosciences, Department of Pediatrics, University of 
Tennessee Health Science Center, Memphis, TN, USA Le Bonheur Neuroscience 
Institute, Le Bonheur Children's Hospital, Memphis, TN, USA Department of 
Neurobiology and Anatomy, University of Tennessee Health Science Center, 
Memphis, TN, USA.
(3)Le Bonheur Neuroscience Institute, Le Bonheur Children's Hospital, Memphis, 
TN, USA Division of Pediatric Neurology, Department of Pediatrics, University of 
Tennessee Health Science Center, Memphis, TN, USA.
(4)Le Bonheur Neuroscience Institute, Le Bonheur Children's Hospital, Memphis, 
TN, USA Department of Neurosurgery, University of Tennessee Health Science 
Center, Memphis, TN, USA.

Noninvasive brain stimulation is now an accepted technique that is used as a 
diagnostic aid and in the treatment of neuropsychiatric disorders in adults, and 
is being increasingly used in children. In this review, we will discuss the 
basic principles and safety of one noninvasive brain stimulation method, 
transcranial magnetic stimulation. Improvements in the spatial accuracy of 
transcranial magnetic stimulation are described in the context of image-guided 
transcranial magnetic stimulation. The article describes and provides examples 
of the current clinical applications of transcranial magnetic stimulation in 
children as an aid in the diagnosis and treatment of neuropsychiatric disorders 
and discusses future potential applications. Transcranial magnetic stimulation 
is a noninvasive tool that is safe for use in children and adolescents for 
functional mapping and treatment, and for many children it aids in the 
preoperative evaluation and the risk-benefit decision making.

© The Author(s) 2014.

DOI: 10.1177/0883073814553274
PMID: 25342309 [Indexed for MEDLINE]