[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: phytotherapy systematic review clinical evidence | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: phytotherapy systematic review clinical evidence]

19. BMJ Clin Evid. 2007 May 1;2007:0806.

Premenstrual syndrome.

Kwan I(1), Onwude JL.

Author information:
(1)Royal College of obstetricians and gynaecologists, London, UK.

INTRODUCTION: Premenstrual symptoms occur in 95% of women of reproductive age. 
Severe, debilitating symptoms (PMS) occur in about 5% of those women. There is 
no consensus on how symptom severity should be assessed, which has led to a wide 
variety of symptoms scales, making it difficult to synthesise data on treatment 
efficacy. The cyclical nature of the condition also makes it difficult to 
conduct RCTs.
METHODS AND OUTCOMES: We conducted a systematic review and aimed to answer the 
following clinical questions: What are the effects of drug treatments; hormonal 
treatments; psychological interventions; physical therapies; dietary 
supplements; and surgical treatments in women with premenstrual syndrome? We 
searched: Medline, Embase, The Cochrane Library and other important databases up 
to November 2006 (Clinical Evidence reviews are updated periodically, please 
check our website for the most up-to-date version of this review). We included 
harms alerts from relevant organisations such as the US Food and Drug 
Administration (FDA) and the UK Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory 
Agency (MHRA).
RESULTS: We found 52 systematic reviews, RCTs, or observational studies that met 
our inclusion criteria. We performed a GRADE evaluation of the quality of 
evidence for interventions.
CONCLUSIONS: In this systematic review we present information relating to the 
effectiveness and safety of the following interventions: acupuncture, 
alprazolam, bright light therapy, buspirone, chiropractic manipulation, 
clomipramine, cognitive behavioural therapy, danazol, endometrial ablation, 
evening primrose oil, exercise, gonadorelin analogues, hysterectomy, 
laparoscopic bilateral oophorectomy, magnesium supplements, metolazone, 
non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, oestrogens, oral contraceptives, 
progesterone, progestogens, pyridoxine, reflexology, relaxation, selective 
serotonin reuptake inhibitors, spironolactone, tibolone.

PMID: 19454075 [Indexed for MEDLINE]