[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: Medicinal plants used by traditional healers to treat malign | Type: OpenAlex-OA | Level: Graduate]

[OpenAlex | Herbal Medicine | Year: 2018 | Citations: 153]

Title: Medicinal plants used by traditional healers to treat malignancies and other human ailments in Dalle District, Sidama Zone, Ethiopia

Abstract:
BACKGROUND: Medicinal plants (MPs) used by traditional healers (THs) were investigated in Megera and adjacent subdistricts (kebeles) of Dalle District, Sidama Zone, southern Ethiopia. The objective of the study was to identify and record MPs and their traditional uses in the treatment of various human ailments with emphasis on malignancies and other most frequently reported diseases. METHODS: Traditional medicinal knowledge held by 20 THs was investigated following standard ethnobotanical approaches. Guided field walk, free listing, rigorous individual interviews with extended discussions, and local market surveys were employed to obtain information. Preference rankings, paired comparisons, use value (UV) index, frequency of citation (FC), fidelity level (FL), and informant consensus factor (ICF) matrices were engaged to identify MPs used to treat malignancies and the other most prevalent human ailments. RESULTS: Seventy-one MP species belonging to 63 genera and 46 families, used to treat 39 human ailments, were recorded. A high proportion of the species recovered was shrubs (35.2%); while 64.7% were retrieved from the wild habitat. Leaves were the main part of the MPs used (42.9%), followed by fruits/seeds (13%); all preparations were made from fresh materials and about 27.9% involved boiling. The frequent route of delivery was oral (77.9%), followed by dermal (17.6%). About 40.8% of the MPs were used for treating two or more ailments. About 19.7% of the MPs were used to treat malignancies (ICF = 0.86) among which the plant species Sideroxylon oxyacanthum was the most frequently used (FL = 70%). The species Podocarpus falcatus and Hagenia abyssinica were preferred to treat jaundice and deworm in helminthiases, respectively. CONCLUSION: The study area is very rich in plant biodiversity, and the herbal medicine is an integral part of the traditional healthcare system. The MPs are exposed to various destructive anthropogenic activities, and this situation calls for integrated conservation measures. Furthermore, the rich ethnomedicinal knowledge held by the Sidama community at large and TM practitioners, in particular, needs an in-depth study and documentation. Investigations of the MPs with high ICF, FL, and UVs to malignancies, jaundice, and helminthiases could possibly contribute to future drug development efforts.