[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Propulsion Mechanics | Topic: Flying Machines — W.J. Jackman (early aerodynamics) | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Flying Machines — W.J. Jackman (early aerodynamics) — Overview

his neighboure: But so farr of is it, that daunses should bee put in the rome and number of thinges indifferent, that euery one ought to make an accompt of them, and to holde them altogeather wicked, and unlawful: in so much that I send all them againe back to their owne consciences, which say, that in daunsing they haue not any impudent & shamelesse affection. For the thing beyng so vilanous, and so infected of his own
nature, as daunsing is, it is impossible, that he which useth it,
should not bee infected, neither more nor lesse: then it is impossible
to touch any filthines, and not to bee once uncleane, infected, and
defyled. [Sidenote: The beginning of daunses.]  And that it is so, let us
somewhat, or a little serch and seeke out the beginning of daunses,
and we shal fynd that men cannot geue them a better nor more apt and
proper definition, then that which hath bene brought heretofore. For
if wee would in this matter refer our selues to them, which haue
written of the antiquities, as well of the Grecians as of the Romains,
yea, and that to some Poets, wee shall fynd how that daunses haue
taken their begynning, from Pagans and Heathen men, which haue then
first used them, when they did sacrifyce to their Gods. For beeing
plunged into very thick, & as it were palpable dark nesses, after that
they had forged and advised Gods according to their owne fantasy, they
thought and supposed that they should bee delighted and pleased, with
the selfe same delightes and pleasures, wherein, or wherewith they
delighted themselues. Whereupon wee neede not doubt hereof, but that it was the deuil which
did guide and leade them, whom al superstition, false religion, and
erronious doctrine pleaseth, aboue all thinges, speciallye when such a
toy and trifle is accompanied with al wantonnesse and villanie. Now
that such manner of doing, that is to say, custome of Pagans and
heathen men, hath bene followed and practiced, by the children of
Israel, after that hauing sacrificed to the golden calf; they gaue
themselues to play, the scripture assureth us thereof, in the
ii. chapter of Exodus. Afterward men began to daunce in open playes, spectacles, and shewes,
from which notwithstanding the people were driuen, prohibited, and
forbidden, for feare lest they should be constrained there to behold
and see, an unhonest, and unseemly thinge, for their fere or
kynd. Afterwarde when in a small space of tyme all honesty and shame
did begin, to vanish and weare away, then mens daughters and women
were admitted and receaued to daunses: and yet withall it is true,
that this was a part by themselues, and in priuie places. Finally a short time after, men haue so far disordered themselues, and
broken the bondes and limits of honesty, that men & women haue daunsed
togeather, or as wee would say, in mingle mangle, and namely and
specially in feastes and banquets, in so much that we see, that this
wicked and ungodlye custome, hath stretched forth it selfe euen unto
us, and hath yet, or already the sway at this daye, more then euer it
had. Beholde the beginninge of daunses, togeather with their fruits and
properties, which if they be well considered, and deeply waighed by
sound and rype understandinge, it will not, or shall not bee thought
straunge & maruailous, that I condemne them, hauing indeede on my syde
as well the authority of the doctors of the Church, as of the fathers
which were found or present at certayne auncient, and olde councels. [Sidenote: Augustine against Petilian cap. 6.]  Saint Augustine in his
booke agaynst Petilian, speaketh in this manner: The Byshops haue
always accustomed to represse and beate downe vayne and wanton
daunses: but there are at this day some, which are found in daunses,
yea, and they themselues daunse with women, so farre of is it, that
they reproue, correct, or amend such a greate vice. [Sidenote: Augustine uppon the 32. psa.]  And uppon the thirtie and
two psalme, he condemneth also, or lykewyse the daunces which be had
or used on the Sondaies or Lordes dayes. [Sidenote: Chrisos. in the 26 homily upon Gen.]  Saint John
Chrisostome in the fiftie & sixt homily uppon the booke of Genesis,
intreatinge or speaking of the mariage of Jacob, doth very much
condemne daunsescalling them diuilish. [Sidenote: Chrisos. in the 48. homily upon Gen.]  [Sidenote:
Chrisos. in 14. chap. of S. Mat.]  The like is founde in the fourty
and eighte Homily. And upon the fourteenth chapiter of Saint Mathew,
speakinge of the daunsynge of Salome, the Daughter of Herodias, hee
sayth, that when a wanton daunsynge is hadde, or used, the Deuill,
daunseth by and by, or altogeather. [Sidenote: In the 53. cannon.]  In the counsell of Laodicea, which was
holden in the yeare 368. ther was a cannon made, in these proper
tearmes, or wordes. It must be not admitted that the Christians,
which either goe or come to mariages, leape or daunse, but that
chastlye & soberly they sup or dyne, and as it is seemly and
conuenient for christians.