[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: MRI physics image quality artifact reduction | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: MRI physics image quality artifact reduction]

79. Magn Reson Med. 2026 Jan;95(1):363-381. doi: 10.1002/mrm.70052. Epub 2025 Aug
 29.

A network-assisted joint image and motion estimation approach for robust 3D MRI 
motion correction across severity levels.

Nghiem B(1)(2), Wu Z(1), Kashyap S(1), Kasper L(1)(3), Uludağ K(1)(2)(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Krembil Brain Institute, University Health Network, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(2)Department of Medical Biophysics, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, 
Canada.
(3)Toronto Neuroimaging Facility, Department of Psychology, University of 
Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(4)Physical Sciences, Sunnybrook Research Institute, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(5)Center for Neuroscience Imaging Research, Institute for Basic Science and 
Department of Biomedical Engineering, Sungkyunkwan University, Suwon, Republic 
of Korea.

PURPOSE: The purpose of this work was to develop and evaluate a novel method 
that leverages neural networks and physical modeling for 3D motion correction at 
different levels of corruption.
METHODS: The novel method ("UNet+JE") combines an existing neural network 
("UNetmag") with a physics-informed algorithm for jointly estimating motion 
parameters and the motion-compensated image ("JE"). UNetmag and UNet+JE were 
trained on two training datasets separately with different distributions of 
motion corruption severity and compared to JE as a benchmark. All five resulting 
methods were tested on T1w 3D MPRAGE scans of healthy participants with 
simulated (n = 40) and in vivo (n = 10) motion corruption ranging from mild to 
severe motion.
RESULTS: UNet+JE provided better motion correction than UNetmag ( p < 10-2 for 
all metrics for both simulated and in vivo data), under both training datasets. 
UNetmag exhibited residual image artifacts and blurring, as well as greater 
susceptibility to data distribution shifts than UNet+JE. UNet+JE and JE did not 
significantly differ in image correction quality ( p > 0.05 for all metrics), 
even under strong distribution shifts for UNet+JE. However, UNet+JE reduced 
runtimes by a median reduction factor of between 2.00 to 3.80 as well as 4.05 
for the simulation and in vivo studies, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: UNet+JE benefitted from the robustness of joint estimation and the 
fast image improvement provided by the neural network, enabling the method to 
provide high quality 3D image correction under a wide range of motion corruption 
within shorter runtimes.

© 2025 The Author(s). Magnetic Resonance in Medicine published by Wiley 
Periodicals LLC on behalf of International Society for Magnetic Resonance in 
Medicine.

DOI: 10.1002/mrm.70052
PMCID: PMC12620172
PMID: 40883879 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Z.W. now works for Siemens Healthineers, 
Oakville, ON, Canada.