[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: traditional Chinese medicine herbs mechanism actio | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: traditional Chinese medicine herbs mechanism action]

43. Zhongguo Zhong Yao Za Zhi. 2018 Sep;43(18):3787-3794. doi: 
10.19540/j.cnki.cjcmm.20180611.012.

[Anti-inflammatory mechanism of heat-clearing and detoxifying Chinese herbs].

[Article in Chinese]

Wang Q(1), Su CP(1), Zhang HM(1), Ren YL(1), Wang W(1), Guo SZ(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Beijing University of Chinese 
Medicine, Beijing 100029, China.

Heat-clearing and detoxifying Chinese herbs (HDCHs) are mainly used to treat 
carbuncle, sore throat, erysipelas, gills, dysentery and other diseases induced 
by heat-toxicity. Inflammation is a defensive response to damaging factors in 
living organism with vascular system. In recent years, a large amount of 
experimental and clinical studies showed that HDCHs had good therapeutic effect 
on inflammation. This review analyzed the anti-inflammatory mechanism of 11 
HDCHs by retrieving literature in past 5 years, including Lonicerae Japonicae 
Flos (Jinyinhua), Lonicerae Flos (Jinyinhua), Lonicerae Japonicae Caulis 
(Rendongteng), Forsythiae Fructus (Lianqiao), Rhizoma Coptidis（Huanglian）, 
Gardeniae Fructus (Zhizi), Andrographis Herba (Chuanxinlian), Taraxaci Herba 
(Pugongying), Scrophulariae Radix (Xuanshen), Pulsatillae Radix (Baitouweng), 
and Agrimoniae Herba (Xianhecao). The data showed that the regulatory effect of 
HDCHs on inflammation may be involved mainly in the nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB), 
mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) or janus kinase-signal transducers and 
activators of transcription (JAK-STAT) pathway, with similarity of action links 
among these three. Based upon the analysis of literature, we proposed some 
promising directions in this research field, providing a reliable theoretical 
basis for both experimental researches and clinical practices of HDCHs.

Copyright© by the Chinese Pharmaceutical Association.

DOI: 10.19540/j.cnki.cjcmm.20180611.012
PMID: 30384547 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors of this article and the planning 
committee members and staff have no relevant financial relationships with 
commercial interests to disclose.