[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: natural product antibiotic drug discovery | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: natural product antibiotic drug discovery]

53. Org Biomol Chem. 2024 May 22;22(20):4006-4030. doi: 10.1039/d4ob00236a.

Natural products from the human microbiome: an emergent frontier in organic 
synthesis and drug discovery.

Sengupta S(1)(2), Pabbaraja S(2)(3), Mehta G(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Chemistry, University of Hyderabad, Hyderabad-500046, India. 
gmehta43@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Organic Synthesis and Process Chemistry, CSIR-Indian Institute 
of Chemical Technology, Hyderabad-500007, India.
(3)Academy of Scientific & Innovative Research (AcSIR), Ghaziabad 201002, India.

Often referred to as the "second genome", the human microbiome is at the 
epicenter of complex inter-habitat biochemical networks like the "gut-brain 
axis", which has emerged as a significant determinant of cognition, overall 
health and well-being, as well as resistance to antibiotics and susceptibility 
to diseases. As part of a broader understanding of the nexus between the human 
microbiome, diseases and microbial interactions, whether encoded secondary 
metabolites (natural products) play crucial signalling roles has been the 
subject of intense scrutiny in the recent past. A major focus of these 
activities involves harvesting the genomic potential of the human microbiome via 
bioinformatics guided genome mining and culturomics. Through these efforts, an 
impressive number of structurally intriguing antibiotics, with enhanced chemical 
diversity vis-à-vis conventional antibiotics have been isolated from human 
commensal bacteria, thereby generating considerable interest in their total 
synthesis and expanding their therapeutic space for drug discovery. These 
developments augur well for the discovery of new drugs and antibiotics, 
particularly in the context of challenges posed by mycobacterial resistance and 
emerging new diseases. The current landscape of various synthetic campaigns and 
drug discovery initiatives on antibacterial natural products from the human 
microbiome is captured in this review with an intent to stimulate further 
activities in this interdisciplinary arena among the new generation.

DOI: 10.1039/d4ob00236a
PMID: 38669195 [Indexed for MEDLINE]