[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: optical coherence tomography retinal diagnosis | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: optical coherence tomography retinal diagnosis]

30. Br J Ophthalmol. 2018 Jun;102(6):815-820. doi:
10.1136/bjophthalmol-2016-309837.  Epub 2017 Aug 26.

Non-invasive method of monitoring retinal vasculitis in patients with birdshot 
chorioretinopathy using optical coherence tomography.

Knickelbein JE(#)(1), Tucker W(#)(1), Kodati S(1), Akanda M(1), Sen HN(1).

Author information:
(1)National Eye Institute, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland, 
USA.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND/AIMS: To investigate the utility of using montaged optical coherence 
tomography (OCT) thickness maps to monitor perivascular thickness as a marker of 
vasculitic activity in patients with large-vessel retinal vasculitis.
METHODS: This is a retrospective cohort study of 22 eyes of 11 patients with a 
history of retinal vasculitis associated with birdshot chorioretinopathy (BCR). 
Patients had serial spectral domain 6×6 mm cube OCT scans centred on the fovea, 
optic nerve and proximal branches of the superior and inferior retinal vessels. 
OCT thickness change maps for each respective region were analysed. Changes in 
perivascular thickness were confirmed by assessing vasculitic activity on 
fluorescein angiography (FA), when clinically indicated.
RESULTS: In three patients, montaged OCT scans were acquired at diagnosis and 
serially through initial treatment. In all three patients, montaged OCT 
demonstrated reduced perivascular thickening with oral prednisone treatment, 
which was confirmed by FA showing reduced vascular leakage in both eyes. Eight 
patients had serial montaged OCT scans after diagnosis and initial treatment of 
BCR. Four of these patients showed fluctuations in perivascular thickness during 
flares and treatment that were confirmed by either increased or decreased 
vascular leakage on FA. The other four patients remained quiet on their 
immunosuppressive treatment regimens, and no changes in perivascular thickness 
were detected.
CONCLUSIONS: Evaluating large-vessel perivascular thickness on OCT scans may be 
a useful method for non-invasively monitoring posterior pole large-vessel 
retinal vasculitis.

© Article author(s) (or their employer(s) unless otherwise stated in the text of 
the article) 2018. All rights reserved. No commercial use is permitted unless 
otherwise expressly granted.

DOI: 10.1136/bjophthalmol-2016-309837
PMID: 28844053 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.