[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: adaptogen ashwagandha stress cortisol clinical | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: adaptogen ashwagandha stress cortisol clinical]

5. Afr J Tradit Complement Altern Med. 2011;8(5 Suppl):208-13. doi: 
10.4314/ajtcam.v8i5S.9. Epub 2011 Jul 3.

An overview on ashwagandha: a Rasayana (rejuvenator) of Ayurveda.

Singh N(1), Bhalla M, de Jager P, Gilca M.

Author information:
(1)International Institute of Herbal Medicine, Gomtinagar, Lucknow - 226010, 
INDIA.

Withania somnifera (Ashawagandha) is very revered herb of the Indian Ayurvedic 
system of medicine as a Rasayana (tonic). It is used for various kinds of 
disease processes and specially as a nervine tonic. Considering these facts many 
scientific studies were carried out and its adaptogenic / anti-stress activities 
were studied in detail. In experimental models it increases the stamina of rats 
during swimming endurance test and prevented adrenal gland changes of ascorbic 
acid and cortisol content produce by swimming stress. Pretreatment with Withania 
somnifera (WS) showed significance protection against stress induced gastric 
ulcers. WS have anti-tumor effect on Chinese Hamster Ovary (CHO) cell carcinoma. 
It was also found effective against urethane induced lung-adenoma in mice. In 
some cases of uterine fibroids, dermatosarcoma, long term treatment with WS 
controlled the condition. It has a Cognition Promoting Effect and was useful in 
children with memory deficit and in old age people loss of memory. It was also 
found useful in neurodegenerative diseases such as Parkinson's, Huntington's and 
Alzeimer's diseases. It has GABA mimetic effect and was shown to promote 
formation of dendrites. It has anxiolytic effect and improves energy levels and 
mitochondrial health. It is an anti-inflammatory and anti-arthritic agent and 
was found useful in clinical cases of Rheumatoid and Osteoarthritis. Large scale 
studies are needed to prove its clinical efficacy in stress related disorders, 
neuronal disorders and cancers.

DOI: 10.4314/ajtcam.v8i5S.9
PMCID: PMC3252722
PMID: 22754076 [Indexed for MEDLINE]