[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: ethnobotany traditional medicine biological activi | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: ethnobotany traditional medicine biological activity]

54. J Ethnopharmacol. 2021 Nov 15;280:114416. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2021.114416.
Epub  2021 Jul 12.

A review of biological activities and phytochemistry of six ethnomedicinally 
important South African Croton species.

Moremi MP(1), Makolo F(2), Viljoen AM(3), Kamatou GP(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Tshwane University of Technology, 
Private Bag X680, Pretoria, 0001, South Africa. Electronic address: 
phineas.moremi65@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Tshwane University of Technology, 
Private Bag X680, Pretoria, 0001, South Africa. Electronic address: 
felixmakolo@yahoo.co.uk.
(3)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Tshwane University of Technology, 
Private Bag X680, Pretoria, 0001, South Africa; SAMRC Herbal Drugs Research 
Unit, Faculty of Science, Tshwane University of Technology, Private Bag X680, 
Pretoria, 0001, South Africa. Electronic address: viljoenam@tut.ac.za.
(4)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Tshwane University of Technology, 
Private Bag X680, Pretoria, 0001, South Africa; SAMRC Herbal Drugs Research 
Unit, Faculty of Science, Tshwane University of Technology, Private Bag X680, 
Pretoria, 0001, South Africa. Electronic address: kamatougp@tut.ac.za.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: The genus Croton (Euphorbiaceae) encompasses 
1300 species, which consist of a variety of trees and shrubs distributed across 
the world. About 26 species are harboured on the African continent. This genus 
plays an essential role in African folk medicine. Croton species are 
traditionally used for the treatment of many diverse conditions such as 
diabetes, malaria, sexually transmitted diseases, cancer, inflammation, fever, 
digestive problems and fungal infections.
AIM OF THE REVIEW: To provide a comprehensive overview of the ethnobotany, 
traditional uses, phytochemistry and biological activities of six selected 
southern Africa Croton species; C.gratissimus Burch., C. megalobotrys 
Müll.-Arg., C. menyhartii Gȕrke, C. pseudopulchellus Pax, C. steenkampianus 
Gerstner and C. sylvaticus Schltdl.).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Various electronic databases, namely Google, Google 
Scholar, Scopus, ScienceDirect, Biomed Central and Pubmed, were used to search 
for information related to the traditional uses, chemistry and pharmacology of 
Croton species. Books were also consulted to collect all pertinent information.
RESULTS AND DISCUSSION: The ethnopharmacology, phytochemistry and biological 
activities of southern African Croton species are reviewed. The literature 
revealed that Croton species are trusted traditional medicines for the treatment 
of microbial infections and malaria. The non-volatile components of Croton 
species include flavonoids, terpenoids and alkaloids, while the volatile 
constituents comprise mainly of monoterpenes (α-phellandrene, α-pinene and 
1,8-cineole) and sesquiterpenes (caryophyllene oxide). Most of the reported 
biological activities (anti-oxidant, antimicrobial, anticancer and antimalarial) 
were based on in vitro assays and were accredited to various extracts. However, 
both in vitro and in vivo studies, linking the reported activities to specific 
compounds, are still lacking.
CONCLUSIONS: Croton species are used in traditional medicine to treat a range of 
ailments, and various in vitro biological activities have been investigated, 
with some extracts exhibiting good activity that could be considered for further 
investigation. The in vitro activities obtained seem to justify the use of 
Croton species in traditional medicine. Data on in vivo studies are scarce and 
studies usually focused on a single collection. The need to establish a quality 
control protocols for the standardisation of these herbal drugs is also 
important.

Copyright © 2021. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2021.114416
PMID: 34265381 [Indexed for MEDLINE]