[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Complex Circuit Systems | Topic: HRS/EHRA/ECAS Expert Consensus Statement on Catheter and Sur | Type: OpenAlex-OA | Level: Graduate]

[OpenAlex | Circuit Engineering | Year: 2007 | Citations: 1297]

Title: HRS/EHRA/ECAS Expert Consensus Statement on Catheter and Surgical Ablation of Atrial Fibrillation: Recommendations for Personnel, Policy, Procedures and Follow-Up: A report of the Heart Rhythm Society (HRS) Task Force on Catheter and Surgical Ablation of Atrial Fibrillation Developed in partnership with the European Heart Rhythm Association (EHRA) and the European Cardiac Arrhythmia Society (ECAS); in collaboration with the American College of Cardiology (ACC), American Heart Association (AHA), and the Society of Thoracic Surgeons (STS). Endorsed and Approved by the governing bodies of the American College of Cardiology, the American Heart Association, the European Cardiac Arrhythmia Society, the European Heart Rhythm Association, the Society of Thoracic Surgeons, and the Heart Rhythm Society.

Abstract:
During the past decade, catheter ablation of atrial fibrillation (AF) has evolved rapidly from a highly experimental unproven procedure, to its current status as a commonly performed ablation procedure in many major hospitals throughout the world. Surgical ablation of AF, using either standard or minimally invasive techniques, is also performed in many major hospitals throughout the world. The purpose of this Consensus Statement is to provide a state-of-the-art review of the field of catheter and surgical ablation of AF, and to report the findings of a Task Force, convened by the Heart Rhythm Society and charged with defining the indications, techniques, and outcomes of this procedure. The Heart Rhythm Society was pleased to develop this Consensus Statement in partnership with the European Heart Rhythm Association and the European Cardiac Arrhythmia Society. This statement summarizes the opinion of the Task Force members based on their own experience in treating patients, as well as a review of the literature, and is directed to all health care professionals who are involved in the care of patients with AF, particularly those who are undergoing or are being considered for catheter or surgical ablation procedures for AF. This statement is not intended to recommend or promote catheter ablation of AF. Rather the ultimate judgment regarding care of a particular patient must be made by the health care provider and patient in light of all the circumstances presented by that patient. In writing a "consensus" document, it is recognized that consensus does not mean that there was complete agreement among all Task Force members. We attempted to identify those aspects of AF ablation for which a true "consensus" could be identified ( Tables 1 and 2 ). Surveys of the entire Task Force were used to identify these areas of consensus. The main objective of this document is …