[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: traditional Chinese medicine herbs mechanism actio | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: traditional Chinese medicine herbs mechanism action]

77. Phytomedicine. 2021 May;85:153543. doi: 10.1016/j.phymed.2021.153543. Epub
2021  Mar 17.

Network pharmacology to explore the anti-inflammatory mechanism of Xuebijing in 
the treatment of sepsis.

Zhou W(1), Lai X(2), Wang X(1), Yao X(3), Wang W(4), Li S(5).

Author information:
(1)Institute for TCM-X, MOE Key Laboratory of Bioinformatics, Bioinformatics 
Division, BNRist, Department of Automation, Tsinghua University, 100084 Beijing, 
China.
(2)Institute for TCM-X, MOE Key Laboratory of Bioinformatics, Bioinformatics 
Division, BNRist, Department of Automation, Tsinghua University, 100084 Beijing, 
China; Institute for Brain Disorders, Dongzhimen Hospital, Beijing University of 
Chinese Medicine, Beijing, China.
(3)Tianjin Chase Sun Pharmaceutical Co. LTD, Tianjin, China.
(4)Center of Pharmaceutical Technology, Tsinghua University, China.
(5)Institute for TCM-X, MOE Key Laboratory of Bioinformatics, Bioinformatics 
Division, BNRist, Department of Automation, Tsinghua University, 100084 Beijing, 
China. Electronic address: shaoli@mail.tsinghua.edu.cn.

BACKGROUND: Xuebijing (XBJ) is a traditional Chinese patent medicine for sepsis. 
However, the mechanism of action (MoA) of XBJ on sepsis remain unclear.
PURPOSE: Elucidate the MoA of XBJ for treating sepsis based on network 
pharmacology.
STUDY DESIGN: Integrate computational prediction, experimental validation and 
literature reported clinical results analysis based on network pharmacology.
METHODS: Computationally, representative compounds of XBJ were characterized by 
LC-MS/MS and the target profiles of each compound were identified using 
network-based method. Compounds from XBJ were compared with FDA approved drugs 
or experimental agents for sepsis by hierarchical clustering of target profile. 
Key biological functional modules of XBJ for treating sepsis were identified by 
enrichment analysis. Differential expressed analysis for each biological 
functional module was conducted from sepsis related public omics datasets. 
Herb-biological functional module network was constructed to reveal part of the 
traditional combinatorial rules of herbs for modules. Experimentally, the action 
of XBJ compounds on genes in biological functional module was validated by 
detecting quantitative transcriptional profiling and sepsis animal model. 
Clinically, combined with the clinical results recorded in literature, 
computational and experimental results were used to interpret the 
anti-inflammatory effect of XBJ for treating sepsis.
RESULTS: The target profiles of compound cover most of the compound's related 
biomolecules reported in literature, which can characterize the comprehensive 
function of compound. XBJ has similar pharmacological effect as FDA approved 
drugs or experimental agents. Four key biological functional modules including 
inflammation, immune, cell apoptosis and coagulation of XBJ for treating sepsis 
were identified. Cell line experimental results show that part of ingredients in 
XBJ regulate the expression of genes in inflammation modules as predicted. 
Animal experiments show that compounds from XBJ could reduce the expression 
level of IL-1β. Combined with literature reported clinical results, XBJ was 
found to exert anti-inflammatory effect through regulating the NF-kappa B 
signaling pathway.
CONCLUSION: The network pharmacology framework integrating computational 
prediction, experimental validation and literature reported clinical results 
analysis provides a novel approach for analyzing MoA of XBJ for treating sepsis.

Copyright © 2021. Published by Elsevier GmbH.

DOI: 10.1016/j.phymed.2021.153543
PMID: 33799226 [Indexed for MEDLINE]