[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: Hedy Epstein | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Hedy Epstein — Overview

Jennifer Graham of the Stanford Daily acknowledged that "plenty – if not unfairly too much" coverage was given to the claims of Epstein's critics. She also apologized for the "wrong" and "misleading" decision to run Mintz's op-ed criticizing Epstein's speech before it had happened. "There are claims, that I can neither confirm nor deny, that Mintz's column factually misrepresents the substance of Epstein's speech", she wrote. As a "constructive response" to Epstein's presentation, members of several campus Jewish organizations invited Harvard professor Ruth Wisse to speak at Stanford. "While her audience ate Challah bread and drank champagne for the Kiddush", wrote The Stanford Daily, Wisse placed sole blame for Palestinian suffering on the Arab world and on Palestinian politics, and argued that since opposition to the Jews was the only thing that the Arab world had in common, the center of Arab politics became anti-Semitism. Stanford student Ahmed Ashraf responded with an op-ed contrasting the "pro-Israelis (sic) outraged by Epstein's support for the Palestinians" to the "perfectly respectful" behavior of Arab and Muslim attendees to Wisse's talk, "even as the acidic torrent of hate rained down on them."

An Anti-Defamation League report from the next year characterized Epstein's talk as an "example of anti-Israel campus activism" which "would meet both the United States government's and [Israeli cabinet] Minister Nathan Sharansky's definitions of anti-Semitism," for "comparing Nazi treatment of Jews to Israeli treatment of Palestinians." 

An online publication of the Jerusalem Center for Public Affairs cited Epstein's talk  on the same subject at the University of California, Santa Cruz among "activities that spill over into various forms of hate-speech demonizing both Israelis and Jews" [which] "compared Israel to a Nazi state and Israeli soldiers to Nazis." 

In 2008, the Missouri regional director for the Anti-Defamation League noted, "For someone like Hedy, who came out of the Jewish community at a very difficult time, to criticize Israel ... well, it's difficult. Some people perceive it as disloyal."

Activism
In August 2008, Epstein planned to be on board the Free Gaza Movement's ship attempting to break Israel's naval blockade of Gaza, but had to cancel due to poor health. In 2010, she embarked on one of the ships that intended to deliver humanitarian aid to Gaza, but decided in Cyprus not to take part in the trip. She reportedly had also planned to take part in the 2011 flotilla but did not. She was on board "The Audacity of Hope" ready to join the flotilla. However, they were intercepted by the Greek Coast Guard and turned back. Epstein was supportive of the Black Lives Matter movement, and was arrested for failure to disperse on August 18, 2014, during a St. Louis protest against the killing of Michael Brown and subsequent police actions. Death
Epstein died at her home in St. Louis on May 26, 2016, aged 91, of cancer. Hedy was survived by son Howard Epstein, and granddaughters Courtney and Kelly. See also
 List of peace activists
 Israeli–Palestinian conflict
 Norman Finkelstein

References

External links
 

1924 births
2016 deaths
American political activists
Deaths from cancer in Missouri
Jewish anti-Zionism in the United States
Jewish emigrants from Nazi Germany to the United States
Kindertransport refugees
People from Freiburg im Breisgau
Palestinian solidarity activists