[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: natural product antibiotic drug discovery | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: natural product antibiotic drug discovery]

71. Biochem Pharmacol. 2018 Jul;153:24-34. doi: 10.1016/j.bcp.2018.01.007. Epub
2018  Jan 5.

Cracking the regulatory code of biosynthetic gene clusters as a strategy for 
natural product discovery.

Rigali S(1), Anderssen S(2), Naômé A(2), van Wezel GP(3).

Author information:
(1)InBioS - Center for Protein Engineering, University of Liège, Institut de 
Chimie, B6a, B-4000 Liège, Belgium. Electronic address: srigali@uliege.be.
(2)InBioS - Center for Protein Engineering, University of Liège, Institut de 
Chimie, B6a, B-4000 Liège, Belgium.
(3)Molecular Biotechnology, Institute of Biology, Sylvius Laboratories, Leiden 
University, Sylviusweg 72, 2333 BE Leiden, The Netherlands.

The World Health Organization (WHO) describes antibiotic resistance as "one of 
the biggest threats to global health, food security, and development today", as 
the number of multi- and pan-resistant bacteria is rising dangerously. Acquired 
resistance phenomena also impair antifungals, antivirals, anti-cancer drug 
therapy, while herbicide resistance in weeds threatens the crop industry. On the 
positive side, it is likely that the chemical space of natural products goes far 
beyond what has currently been discovered. This idea is fueled by genome 
sequencing of microorganisms which unveiled numerous so-called cryptic 
biosynthetic gene clusters (BGCs), many of which are transcriptionally silent 
under laboratory culture conditions, and by the fact that most bacteria cannot 
yet be cultivated in the laboratory. However, brute force antibiotic discovery 
does not yield the same results as it did in the past, and researchers have had 
to develop creative strategies in order to unravel the hidden potential of 
microorganisms such as Streptomyces and other antibiotic-producing 
microorganisms. Identifying the cis elements and their corresponding 
transcription factors(s) involved in the control of BGCs through bioinformatic 
approaches is a promising strategy. Theoretically, we are a few 'clicks' away 
from unveiling the culturing conditions or genetic changes needed to activate 
the production of cryptic metabolites or increase the production yield of known 
compounds to make them economically viable. In this opinion article, we describe 
and illustrate the idea beyond 'cracking' the regulatory code for natural 
product discovery, by presenting a series of proofs of concept, and discuss what 
still should be achieved to increase the rate of success of this strategy.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bcp.2018.01.007
PMID: 29309762 [Indexed for MEDLINE]