[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: laser surgery LASIK corneal refractive outcome | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: laser surgery LASIK corneal refractive outcome]

75. J Cataract Refract Surg. 2005 Jan;31(1):106-14. doi:
10.1016/j.jcrs.2004.09.044.

Prediction of flap response.

Potgieter FJ(1), Roberts C, Cox IG, Mahmoud AM, Herderick EE, Roetz M, Steenkamp 
W.

Author information:
(1)Optimed Eye and Laser Clinic, Pretoria, South Africa. 
dr.potgieter@lasik.co.za

PURPOSE: To find predictors of the induced biomechanical and optical effects of 
lamellar flap creation on the cornea.
SETTING: Optimed Eye and Laser Clinic, Pretoria, South Africa, and the 
Department of Ophthalmology and Biomedical Engineering Center, The Ohio State 
University, Columbus, Ohio, and Bausch & Lomb Vision Research Laboratory, 
Rochester, New York, USA.
METHODS: This prospective study monitored the refractive, wavefront aberration, 
and corneal topographic changes in 29 eyes of 15 patients for 3 months after the 
creation of a corneal lamellar flap. The main outcome measures for statistical 
analysis were refraction, total corneal thickness, residual corneal bed 
thickness, horizontal white-to-white corneal diameter, horizontal flap diameter, 
topography data, and wavefront data.
RESULTS: Statistically significant changes were seen in the autorefraction mode. 
Wavefront data showed significant change in 4 Zernike modes-90/180-degree 
astigmatism, vertical coma, horizontal coma, and spherical aberration. The 
topography data indicated the corneal biomechanical response was significantly 
predicted by stromal bed thickness in the early follow-up period and by total 
corneal pachymetry and flap diameter in a 2-parameter statistical model in the 
late follow-up period.
CONCLUSIONS: Uncomplicated lamellar flap creation is responsible for systematic 
changes in corneal topography and induction of higher-order optical aberrations. 
Predictors of this response include stromal bed thickness, flap diameter, and 
total corneal pachymetry.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jcrs.2004.09.044
PMID: 15721702 [Indexed for MEDLINE]