[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: biomaterial implant osseointegration titanium clin | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: biomaterial implant osseointegration titanium clinical]

51. J Mater Sci Mater Med. 2019 Jun 11;30(6):73. doi: 10.1007/s10856-019-6276-0.

Enhancing osseointegration of titanium implants through large-grit sandblasting 
combined with micro-arc oxidation surface modification.

He W(1), Yin X(2), Xie L(2)(3), Liu Z(2), Li J(2), Zou S(2), Chen J(4).

Author information:
(1)Stomatological Hospital, Southern Medical University, No. 366, South Jiangnan 
Avenue, Guangzhou, 510280, Guangdong, China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Oral Diseases & National Clinical Research Center for 
Oral Diseases, West China Hospital of Stomatology, Sichuan University, 610041, 
Chengdu, China.
(3)College of Materials Science and Engineering, Sichuan University, 610064, 
Chengdu, China.
(4)State Key Laboratory of Oral Diseases & National Clinical Research Center for 
Oral Diseases, West China Hospital of Stomatology, Sichuan University, 610041, 
Chengdu, China. bulb13@163.com.

PURPOSE: The demand for titanium dental implants has risen sharply. However, the 
clinical success rate of implant surgery needs to be improved. In this paper, we 
report a novel surface modification strategy, large-grit sandblasting combined 
with micro-arc oxidation (SL-MAO), aiming to promote peri-implant bone formation 
and osseointegration of titanium implants.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Modified titanium samples were prepared by large-grit 
sandblasting and acid etching (SLA), micro-arc oxidation (MAO), and SL-MAO. The 
resulting topographical changes and chemical composition of the samples were 
examined by scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and energy-dispersive X-ray 
spectroscopy (EDS), respectively, and the biocompatibility and bioactivity were 
analyzed by bone-marrow mesenchymal stem cells (BMMSC) adhesion tests. Modified 
titanium implants were also inserted into the femurs of beagle dogs, and their 
competence of osseointegration was appraised by quantitative histomorphometry 
and micro-computed-tomography (micro-CT) analyses.
RESULTS: Compared to SLA and MAO techniques, SL-MAO surface modification further 
enhanced titanium surfaces by creating a topographic morphology characterized by 
both micron-sized craters and sub-micron-scale pits, and resulted in superior 
chemical composition, which promoted cell adhesion, proliferation, and 
osteogenic differentiation. SL-MAO-modified titanium implants osseointegrated 
more efficiently than SLA or MAO controls, with significantly higher bone-area 
(BA) ratio and bone-implant contact (BIC) in the peri-implant region.
CONCLUSIONS: The SL-MAO surface modification technique optimized the surface 
properties of titanium implants and enhanced peri-implant bone formation and 
osseointegration.

DOI: 10.1007/s10856-019-6276-0
PMID: 31187259 [Indexed for MEDLINE]