[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: Culpeper's Complete Herbal — Nicholas Culpeper | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Culpeper's Complete Herbal — Nicholas Culpeper — Overview

that scent. “When he does, I'll run,” said Jumper to himself. “I'll have at least a chance to dodge Whitey. I am afraid he will catch me, but I'll have a chance. I won't have any chance at all if Shadow finds me.” Suddenly Shadow stopped running and sat up to look about with fierce little eyes, all the time testing the air with his nose. Jumper's heart
sank. He knew that Shadow had caught a faint scent of some one. Then
Shadow began to run back and forth once more, but more carefully than
before. And then he started straight for where Jumper was crouching! Jumper knew then that Shadow had found his trail. Jumper drew a long breath and settled his long hind feet for a great
jump, hoping to so take Whitey the Owl by surprise that he might be able
to get away. And as Jumper did this, he looked over to that stump where
Whitey had been sitting so long. Whitey was just leaving it on his great
silent wings, and his fierce yellow eyes were fixed in the direction of
Shadow the Weasel. He had seen that moving black spot which was the tip
of Shadow's tail. Jumper didn't have time to jump before Whitey was swooping down at
Shadow. So Juniper just kept still and watched with eyes almost popping
from his head with fear and excitement. Shadow hadn't seen Whitey until just as Whitey was reaching for him with
his great cruel claws. Now if there is any one who can move more quickly
than Shadow the Weasel I don't know who it is. Whitey's claws closed on
nothing but snow; Shadow had dodged. Then began a game, Whitey swooping
and Shadow dodging, and all the time they were getting farther and
farther from where Jumper was. The instant it was safe to do so, Jumper took to his long heels and the
way he disappeared, lipperty-lipperty-lip, was worth seeing. Whitey the
Snowy Owl had saved him from Shadow the Weasel and didn't know it. An
enemy had proved to be a friend. CHAPTER XIII: Whitefoot Decides Quickly

   Your mind made up a certain way
   Be swift to act; do not delay. --Whitefoot. When Whitefoot had discovered Whitey the Snowy Owl, he had dodged down
in the little hole in the snow beside which he had been sitting. He had
not been badly frightened. But he was somewhat upset. Yes, sir, he was
somewhat upset. You see, he had so many enemies to watch out for, and
here was another. “Just as if I didn't have troubles enough without having this white
robber to add to them,” grumbled Whitefoot. “Why doesn't he stay where
he belongs, way up in the Far North? It must be that food is scarce up
there. Well, now that I know he is here, he will have to be smarter than
I think he is to catch me. I hope Jumper the Hare will have sense enough
to keep perfectly still. I've sometimes envied him his long legs, but I
guess I am better off than he is, at that. Once he has been seen by an
enemy, only those long legs of his can save him, but I have a hundred
hiding-places down under the snow. Whitey is watching the hole where
I disappeared; he thinks I'll come out there again after a while. I'll
fool him.”

Whitefoot scampered along through a little tunnel and presently very
cautiously peeped out of another little round hole in the snow. Sure
enough, there was Whitey the Snowy Owl back to him on a stump, watching
the hole down which he had disappeared a few minutes before. Whitefoot
grinned. Then he looked over to where he had last seen Jumper. Jumper
was still there; it was clear that he hadn't moved, and so Whitey hadn't
seen him. Again Whitefoot grinned. Then he settled himself to watch
patiently for Whitey to become tired of watching that hole and fly away. So it was that Whitefoot saw all that happened. He saw Whitey suddenly
sail out on silent wings from that stump and swoop with great claws
reaching for some one. And then he saw who that some one was,--Shadow
the Weasel! He saw Shadow dodge in the very nick of time. Then he
watched Whitey swoop again and again as Shadow dodged this way and that
way. Finally both disappeared amongst the trees. Then he turned just
in time to see Jumper the Hare bounding away with all the speed of his
wonderful, long legs. Fear, the greatest fear he had known for a long time, took possession
of Whitefoot. “Shadow the Weasel!” he gasped and had such a thing been
possible he certainly would have turned pale. “Whitey won't catch him;
Shadow is too quick for him. And when Whitey has given up and flown
away, Shadow will come back. He probably had found the tracks of Jumper
the Hare and he will come back. I know him; he'll come back. Jumper is
safe enough from him now, because he has such a long start, but Shadow
will be sure to find one of my holes in the snow. Oh, dear! Oh, dear! What shall I do?”

You see Shadow the Weasel is the one enemy that can follow Whitefoot
into most of his hiding-places. For a minute or two Whitefoot sat there, shaking with fright. Then he
made up his mind. “I'll get away from here before he returns,” thought
Whitefoot. “I've got to.