[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: phytotherapy systematic review clinical evidence | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: phytotherapy systematic review clinical evidence]

73. Phytomedicine. 2025 Jun;141:156659. doi: 10.1016/j.phymed.2025.156659. Epub
2025  Mar 24.

Validated herbal extracts for alleviating chemotherapy-induced myelosuppression: 
A systematic review and meta-analysis.

Wang DH(1), Ma XN(1), Wang Y(1), Wei YX(1), Hu P(2), Pan Y(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Pharmacy, Nanjing University of Chinese Medicine, Nanjing 210023, 
China.
(2)School of Pharmacy, Nanjing University of Chinese Medicine, Nanjing 210023, 
China. Electronic address: hupo_cpu@foxmail.com.
(3)School of Pharmacy, Nanjing University of Chinese Medicine, Nanjing 210023, 
China. Electronic address: ypan@njucm.edu.cn.

BACKGROUND: Myelosuppression is a major side effect of chemotherapy. It impairs 
hematopoietic function of bone marrow, decreases immunity, increases 
uncontrolled bleeding. Advanced myelosuppression even forces discontinuation of 
treatment. The agents that reduce myelosuppression can promote outcomes of 
clinical chemotherapy, and herbal extracts show the effects.
PURPOSE: This study aims to evaluate the effects of herbal extracts on 
chemotherapy-induced myelosuppression, providing evidence of their potential in 
mitigating myelosuppression and exploring their prospects for further clinical 
application.
METHODS: We conducted a systematic search in six English and Chinese databases 
and screened studies that met the inclusion criteria. Through a systematic 
review of animal experiments, data were extracted and analyzed from studies that 
evaluated the effect of herbal extracts on myelosuppression, provided 
appropriate control groups for comparison, and reported key outcomes related to 
myelosuppression. We screened 6169 articles and ultimately selected 95 
experimental studies for final analysis.
RESULTS: The comprehensive analysis indicates that herbal extracts have a 
significant protective effect on myelosuppression. Herbal extracts treatment 
increases levels of hemoglobin, white blood cells, platelets, and granulocytes, 
while also enhancing immunity, which may be an effective way to alleviate 
chemotherapy-induced myelosuppression.
CONCLUSION: This systematic review and meta-analysis underscore the significant 
role of herbal extracts in alleviating chemotherapy-induced myelosuppression, 
laying a foundation for future clinical.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.phymed.2025.156659
PMID: 40220426 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.