[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: Structure factor | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Structure factor — Overview

which is a Lorentzian or Cauchy function, of FWHM , i.e., the FWHM increases as the square of the order of peak, and so as the square of the wave vector at the peak. Finally, the product of the peak height and the FWHM is constant and equals , in the limit. For the first few peaks where is not large, this is just the limit. Finite crystals with disorder of the second kind 

For a one-dimensional crystal of size 

where the factor in parentheses comes from the fact the sum is over nearest-neighbour pairs (), next nearest-neighbours (), ... and for a crystal of  planes, there are  pairs of nearest neighbours,  pairs of next-nearest neighbours, etc. Liquids
In contrast with crystals, liquids have no long-range order (in particular, there is no regular lattice), so the structure factor does not exhibit sharp peaks. They do however show a certain degree of short-range order, depending on their density and on the strength of the interaction between particles. Liquids are isotropic, so that, after the averaging operation in Equation (), the structure factor only depends on the absolute magnitude of the scattering vector . For further evaluation, it is convenient to separate the diagonal terms  in the double sum, whose phase is identically zero, and therefore each contribute a unit constant:

One  can obtain an alternative expression for  in terms of the radial distribution function :

Ideal gas
In the limiting case of no interaction, the system is an ideal gas and the structure factor is completely featureless: , because there is no correlation between the positions  and  of different particles (they are independent random variables), so the off-diagonal terms in Equation () average to zero: . High- limit
Even for interacting particles, at high scattering vector the structure factor goes to 1. This result follows from Equation (), since  is the Fourier transform of the "regular" function  and thus goes to zero for high values of the argument . This reasoning does not hold for a perfect crystal, where the distribution function exhibits infinitely sharp peaks. Low- limit
In the low- limit, as the system is probed over large length scales, the structure factor contains thermodynamic information, being related to the isothermal compressibility  of the liquid by the compressibility equation:
 . Hard-sphere liquids

In the hard sphere model, the particles are described as impenetrable spheres with radius ; thus, their center-to-center distance  and they experience no interaction beyond this distance. Their interaction potential can be written as:
 

This model has an analytical solution in the Percus–Yevick approximation. Although highly simplified, it provides a good description for systems ranging from liquid metals to colloidal suspensions. In an illustration, the structure factor for a hard-sphere fluid is shown in the Figure, for volume fractions  from 1% to 40%. Polymers
In polymer systems, the general definition () holds; the elementary constituents are now the monomers making up the chains. However, the structure factor being a measure of the correlation between particle positions, one can reasonably expect that this correlation will be different for monomers belonging to the same chain or to different chains. Let us assume that the volume  contains  identical molecules, each composed of  monomers, such that  ( is also known as the degree of polymerization). We can rewrite () as:

where indices  label the different molecules and  the different monomers along each molecule. On the right-hand side we separated intramolecular () and intermolecular () terms. Using the equivalence of the chains, () can be simplified:

where  is the single-chain structure factor. See also
R-factor (crystallography)
Patterson function

Notes

References
 Als-Nielsen, N. and McMorrow, D. (2011). Elements of Modern X-ray Physics (2nd edition). John Wiley & Sons. Guinier, A. (1963). X-ray Diffraction. In Crystals, Imperfect Crystals, and Amorphous Bodies. W. H. Freeman and Co. Chandler, D. (1987). Introduction to Modern Statistical Mechanics. Oxford University Press. Hansen, J. P. and McDonald, I. R. (2005). Theory of Simple Liquids (3rd edition). Academic Press. Teraoka, I. (2002). Polymer Solutions: An Introduction to Physical Properties. John Wiley & Sons. External links
Structure Factor Tutorial located at the University of York. Definition of  by IUCr
Learning Crystallography, from the CSIC

Crystallography