[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: ethnobotany traditional medicine biological activi | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: ethnobotany traditional medicine biological activity]

60. Phytother Res. 2020 Nov;34(11):2793-2819. doi: 10.1002/ptr.6720. Epub 2020
Jun  4.

Ethnobotany, ethnopharmacology, phytochemistry, biological activities and 
toxicity of Pistacia chinensis subsp. integerrima: A comprehensive review.

Ahmad R(1), Almubayedh H(2), Ahmad N(3), Naqvi AA(4), Riaz M(5).

Author information:
(1)Natural Products and Alternative Medicines, College of Clinical Pharmacy, 
Imam Abdulrahman Bin Faisal University, Dammam, Saudi Arabia.
(2)College of Clinical Pharmacy, Imam Abdulrahman Bin Faisal University, Dammam, 
Saudi Arabia.
(3)Department of Pharmaceutics, College of Clinical Pharmacy, Imam Abdulrahman 
Bin Faisal University, Dammam, Saudi Arabia.
(4)Department of Pharmacy Practice, College of Clinical Pharmacy, Imam 
Abdulrahman Bin Faisal University, Dammam, Saudi Arabia.
(5)Department of Pharmacy, Shaheed Benazir Bhutto University, Sheringal Dir (U), 
Pakistan.

Pistacia chinensis subsp. integerrima (J. L. Stewart ex Brandis) Rech. F. is a 
valuable medicinal plant used in south Asian communities for the treatment of 
asthma, diarrhea, diabetes, liver diseases, fever, pain and inflammation. This 
review critically evaluates the available information on P. integerrima's 
ethnobotany, ethnopharmacology, phytochemistry, pharmacology and toxicology. 
Electronic databases such as Google Scholar, PubMed, Springer Link, and so 
forth, books and theses were used to find relevant information about P. 
integerrima using keywords such as "Pistacia integerrima," "P. integerrima," 
"Ethnopharmacology," "Phytochemistry," "Traditional uses". A number of in vitro 
and in vivo pharmacological activities have been reported; however, the most 
promising and attractive activity observed was its role in Alzheimer, diabetes, 
convulsions, cancer, asthma, diabetes, diarrhea and as an immunomodulatory, 
analgesic and antiinflammatory. In addition, Pistagremic acid exerted 
anti-Alzheimer's activity based on a hitherto unknown mechanism through 
interference with the amyloidogenic pathway. Most of the pharmacological 
activities were linked with traditional uses. A range of compounds have been 
reported from P. integerrima extracts including triterpenes, volatile oils, 
flavonoids, fatty acids, phenolic, phytosterols, tannins and oligosaccharides as 
well as unknown triterpenes and flavonoids. Pistagremic acid, a novel 
triterpene, was attributed to most of the activities. in vivo toxicological 
studies in animal suggested a toxic dose of 1,500 mg kg-1 , for its methanolic 
extract. All reported pharmacological activities were carried out in vitro and a 
gap in research, that is, preclinical and clinical investigation exists. Its 
outstanding activity as an antiglycating agent is the most promising and a so 
far unique activity and needs further evaluation. In-depth research and clinical 
trials on human subjects in order to investigate P. integerrima pharmacological 
activity, clinical efficacy and safety are crucial next steps.

© 2020 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/ptr.6720
PMID: 32496629 [Indexed for MEDLINE]61. J Ethnopharmacol. 2016 Aug 22;190:328-53. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2016.06.060.
Epub  2016 Jun 25.

Phytochemistry and pharmacology of the genus Drypetes: A review.

Wansi JD(1), Wandji J(2), Sewald N(3), Nahar L(4), Martin C(5), Sarker SD(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, University of Douala, Faculty of Science, 24157 
Douala, Cameroon; School of Pharmacy and Biomolecular Sciences, Liverpool John 
Moores University, James Parsons Building, Byrom Street, Liverpool L3 3AF, UK. 
Electronic address: J.D.Wansi@ljmu.ac.uk.
(2)Department of Organic Chemistry, University of Yaounde I, Faculty of Science, 
812 Yaounde, Cameroon.
(3)Organic and Bioorganic Chemistry, Department of Chemistry, Bielefeld 
University, 33501 Bielefeld, Germany.
(4)School of Pharmacy and Biomolecular Sciences, Liverpool John Moores 
University, James Parsons Building, Byrom Street, Liverpool L3 3AF, UK.
(5)School of Pharmacy, Faculty of Science and Engineering, University of 
Wolverhampton, Wulfuna Street, Wolverhampton WV1 1LY, UK.

AIMS: Traditional medicinal use of species of the genus Drypetes is widespread 
in the tropical regions. The aim of this review is to systematically appraise 
the literature available to date on phytochemistry, ethnopharmacology, 
toxicology and bioactivity (in vitro and in vivo) of crude extracts and purified 
compounds.
ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Plants of the genus Drypetes (Putranjivaceae) 
are used in the Subsaharan African and Asian traditional medicines to treat a 
multitude of disorders, like dysentery, gonorrhoea, malaria, rheumatism, 
sinusitis, tumours, as well as for the treatment of wounds, headache, urethral 
problems, fever in young children, typhoid and several other ailments. Some 
Drypetes species are used to protect food against pests, as an aphrodisiac, a 
stimulant/depressant, a rodenticide and a fish poison, against insect bites, to 
induce conception and for general healing. This review deals with updated 
information on the ethnobotany, phytochemistry, and biological activities of 
ethnomedicinally important Drypetes species, in order to provide an input for 
the future research opportunities.
METHODS: An extensive review of the literature available in various recognized 
databases e.g., Google Scholar, PubMed, Science Direct, SciFinder, Web of 
Science, www.theplantlist.org and www.gbif.org, as well as the Herbier National 
du Cameroun (Yaoundé) and Botanic Gardens of Limbe databases on the uses and 
bioactivity of various species of the Drypetes was undertaken.
RESULTS: The literature provided information on ethnopharmacological uses of the 
Subsaharan African and Asian species of the genus Drypetes, e.g., Drypetes 
aubrévillii, D. capillipes, D. chevalieri, D. gerrardii, D. gossweileri, D. 
ivorensis, D. klainei, D. natalensis, D. pellegrini (all endemic to Africa) and 
D. roxburghii (Asian species), for the treatment of multiple disorders. From a 
total of 19 species, more than 140 compounds including diterpenes, 
sesquiterpenes, triterpenes (friedelane, oleanane, lupane and hopane-type), 
flavonoids, lignans, phenylpropanoids and steroids, as well as some 
thiocyanates, were isolated. Several crude extracts of these plants, and 
isolated compounds displayed significant analgesic, anthelmintic, antidiabetic, 
anti-emetic anti-inflammatory, antioxidant, antiparasitic, central nervous 
system depressant, cytotoxic, and insecticidal activities both in vitro and in 
vivo. Some toxicities associated with the stem, bark, seed and leaf extracts of 
D. roxburghii, and the flavonoid, amentoflavone, isolated from the stem extract 
of D. littoralis as well as D. gerrardii, were confirmed in the animal models 
and in the rat skeletal myoblast cells assays. As a consequence, traditional 
medicine from this genus should in future be applied with care.
CONCLUSIONS: Plants of this genus have offered bioactive samples, both from 
crude extracts and pure compounds, partly validating their effectivity in 
traditional medicine. However, most of the available scientific literatures 
lacks information on relevant doses, duration of the treatment, storage 
conditions and positive controls for examining bioefficacy of extract and its 
active compounds. Additional toxicological studies on the species used in local 
pharmacopeia are urgently needed to guarantee safe application due to high 
toxicity of some crude extracts. Interestingly, this review also reports 10 
pimarane dinorditerpenoids structures with the aromatic ring C, isolated from 
the species collected in Asia Drypetes littoralis (Taiwan), D. perreticulata 
(China), and in Africa D. gerrardii (Kenya), D. gossweileri (Cameroon). These 
compounds might turn out to be good candidates for chemotaxonomic markers of the 
genus.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2016.06.060
PMID: 27353868 [Indexed for MEDLINE]