[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: curcumin anti-inflammatory clinical trial randomiz | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: curcumin anti-inflammatory clinical trial randomized]

79. Gen Dent. 2025 May-Jun;73(3):73-77.

Comparison of the antimicrobial effects of 0.2% curcumin mouthwash and 
chlorhexidine mouthwash on Streptococcus mutans in orthodontic patients: a 
randomized clinical trial.

Etezadi T, Semnani A, Ehsani H, Goli HR, Samaei A, Sobouti F.

The use of mouthwash is a practical approach to decreasing bacteria during 
orthodontic treatment. This study aimed to investigate the antibacterial effect 
of 0.2% curcumin mouthwash on Streptococcus mutans in individuals undergoing 
fixed orthodontic treatment. For this double-blinded clinical study, 22 
orthodontic patients aged 15 years or older with no systemic or periodontal 
diseases were selected and randomly divided into 2 groups of 11 individuals. One 
group received 0.2% curcumin mouthwash (intervention), while the other group 
received 0.2% chlorhexidine mouthwash (control) to use twice daily. Orthodontic 
elastics were collected from the patients' mouth immediately before the first 
use of the mouthwash, immediately after the first use, and after 20 days of 
mouthwash use. The elastics were stored in normal saline, and the samples were 
transferred to a microbiology laboratory for serial dilution, plating, and 
incubation. After 48 hours, the number of colony-forming units (CFUs) of S 
mutans were counted and compared. The Friedman and Wilcoxon tests were used for 
statistical analysis of intragroup data, while the Mann-Whitney U test was used 
for intergroup comparisons. A difference of P < 0.05 was considered 
statistically significant. Both the curcumin and chlorhexidine groups 
demonstrated a statistically significant decrease in CFUs of S mutans 
immediately after the initial use as well as after 20 days' use (P < 0.05). 
After the first use, there was no statistically significant difference between 
the groups in the reduction of CFUs (P = 0.071). However, after 20 consecutive 
days of mouthwash use, the curcumin group had a significantly greater decrease 
in CFUs of S mutans than the chlorhexidine group (P < 0.001). Both chlorhexidine 
and curcumin mouthwashes significantly reduced the number of S mutans colonies 
when used regularly. The results of the present study suggest that curcumin 
herbal mouthwash is a superior choice to chlorhexidine for orthodontic patients 
due to its long-term antibacterial properties.

PMID: 40258261 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: No conflicts of interest reported.