[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: The Herbalist — Meyer | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# The Herbalist — Meyer — Overview

although I am very well aware of the inestimable value of your assistance, sir, I must beg to add that, unless you sincerely believe this, I would rather be deprived of the aid of your talents than have the advantage of them." The only effect this had upon Serjeant Snubbin was to cause him to ask rather snappishly,-- "Who is with me in this case?" "Mr. Phunky, Serjeant Snubbin," replied the attorney. "Phunky, Phunky," said the Serjeant, "I never heard the name before. He must be a very young man."

   "Yes, he is a very young man," replied the attorney. "He was only
   called the other day. Let me see--he has not been at the Bar eight
   years yet."

   "Ah, I thought not," said the Serjeant, in that sort of pitying tone
   in which ordinary folks would speak of a very helpless little child. "Mr. Mallard, send round to Mr.--Mr.--"

   "Phunky's--Holborn Court, Gray's Inn," interposed Perker. (Holborn
   Court, by-the-bye, is South Square now.)

   "Mr. Phunky, and say I should be glad if he'd step here a moment."

   Mr. Mallard departed to execute his commission, and Serjeant Snubbin
   relapsed into abstraction until Mr. Phunky himself was introduced. Although an infant barrister he was a full-grown man. He had a very
   nervous manner, and a painful hesitation in his speech; it did not
   appear to be a natural defect, but seemed rather the result of
   timidity, arising from the consciousness of being "kept down" by want
   of means, or interest, or connection, or impudence, as the case might
   be. He was overawed by the Serjeant, and profoundly courteous to the
   attorney. "I have not had the pleasure of seeing you before, Mr. Phunky," said
   Serjeant Snubbin, with haughty condescension. Mr. Phunky bowed. He _had_ had the pleasure of seeing the Serjeant,
   and of envying him too, with all a poor man's envy, for eight years
   and a quarter. "You are with me in this case, I understand?" said the Serjeant. If Mr. Phunky had been a rich man he would have instantly sent for his
   clerk to remind him; if he had been a wise one he would have applied
   his forefinger to his forehead, and endeavoured to recollect whether,
   in the multiplicity of his engagements, he had undertaken this one or
   not; but as he was neither rich nor wise (in this sense, at all
   events) he turned red and bowed. "Have you read the papers, Mr. Phunky?" inquired the Serjeant. Here again Mr. Phunky should have professed to have forgotten all
   about the merits of the case; but as he had read such papers as had
   been laid before him in the course of the action, and had thought of
   nothing else, waking or sleeping, throughout the two months during
   which he had been retained as Mr. Serjeant Snubbin's junior, he turned
   a deeper red and bowed again. "This is Mr. Pickwick," said the Serjeant, waving his pen in the
   direction in which that gentleman was standing. Mr. Phunky bowed to Mr. Pickwick with a reverence which a first client
   must ever awaken, and again inclined his head towards his leader. "Perhaps you will take Mr. Pickwick away," said the Serjeant,
   "and--and--and--hear anything Mr. Pickwick may wish to communicate. We
   shall have a consultation, of course."  With this hint that he had
   been interrupted quite long enough, Mr. Serjeant Snubbin, who had been
   gradually growing more and more abstracted, applied his glass to his
   eye for an instant, bowed slightly round, and was once more deeply
   immersed in the case before him, which arose out of an interminable
   law-suit originating in the act of an individual, deceased a century
   or so ago, who had stopped up a pathway leading from some place which
   nobody ever came from to some other place which nobody ever went to. Mr. Phunky would not hear of passing through any door until Mr. Pickwick and his solicitor had passed through before him, so it was
   some time before they got into the Square; and when they did reach it
   they walked up and down, and held a long conference, the result of
   which was that it was a very difficult matter to say how the verdict
   would go; that nobody could presume to calculate on the issue of an
   action; that it was very lucky they had prevented the other party from
   getting Serjeant Snubbin; and other topics of doubt and consolation
   common in such a position of affairs. Mr. Pickwick's lawsuit was to be tried in the Court of Common Pleas, a
division in which Serjeants-at-Law had the exclusive right to practise. At this time, 1827, and indeed up till 1873, every common law judge was
turned into a Serjeant, if he were not one ere he was promoted to the
Bench. It was a solemn kind of ceremony. The subject of the operation
was led out of the precincts of the Inns of Court; the church bell tolled
as for one dead. He was then admitted member of Serjeants' Inn; and the judge would
address the Serjeants who practised before him as Brother So-and-So. Justice Lindley was the last judge who took the degree, a degree the only
outward visible sign of which is the black patch or coif which is
attached to the top of the wig.