[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: MRI physics image quality artifact reduction | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: MRI physics image quality artifact reduction]

90. J Magn Reson Imaging. 2007 Aug;26(2):442-7. doi: 10.1002/jmri.20961.

Can homogeneous preparation encoding (HoPE) help reduce scan time in abdominal 
MRI? A clinical evaluation.

Paul D(1), Frydrychowicz A, Walcher J, Fautz HP, Hennig J, Langer M, Schäfer O.

Author information:
(1)Department of Diagnostic Radiology - Medical Physics, University Hospital 
Freiburg, Freiburg, Germany. dominik.paul@uniklinik-freiburg.de

PURPOSE: To evaluate time efficiency, image quality, and diagnostic value of a 
clinical routine homogeneous preparation encoding (HoPE) imaging protocol in 
different malign and inflammatory abdominal conditions.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A total of 14 healthy volunteers and 40 patients were 
examined after written informed consent and approval of the local ethics 
committee. A standard abdominal T1-weighted (T1W) fat-saturated gradient-echo 
protocol was compared to the HoPE sequence protocol ensuring for comparable 
imaging parameters. Examinations were performed on a 1.5-T Siemens Avanto 
equipped with a multichannel body-array coil. Image analysis was performed with 
respect to contrast-to-noise ratio (CNR) and signal-to-noise ratio (SNR), level 
of fat suppression (FS), generation of artifacts, and overall image quality by 
two blinded radiologists.
RESULTS: In addition to comparable results in overall image quality and FS 
level, the HoPE sequence protocol provided a reduction in acquisition time of up 
to 40%. In addition, artifact generation was same or even reduced with respect 
to pulsation. Quantitative SNR analysis showed strong correlation between HoPE 
and the conventional method.
CONCLUSION: The HoPE technique is a feasible and time-saving alternative for 
clinical abdominal MRI. Future studies will have to be conducted on larger 
patient collectives to strengthen the impact of this promising technique for FS 
imaging and to prove its accuracy.

(c) 2007 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/jmri.20961
PMID: 17654734 [Indexed for MEDLINE]