[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: pharmacognosy medicinal plant active compound isol | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: pharmacognosy medicinal plant active compound isolation]

24. Curr Top Med Chem. 2022;22(19):1553-1570. doi: 
10.2174/1568026622666220713143436.

Traditional Uses, Pharmacological, and Phytochemical Studies of Euphorbia: A 
Review.

Amtaghri S(1)(2), Akdad M(1), Slaoui M(2), Eddouks M(1).

Author information:
(1)Team of Ethnopharmacology and Pharmacognosy, Faculty of Sciences and 
Techniques Errachidia, Moulay Ismail University of Meknes, BP 509, Boutalamine, 
Errachidia, 52000, Morocco.
(2)Energy, Materials and Sustainable Devel-opment (EMDD) Team- Higher School of 
Technology-SALE, Center for Water, Natural Resources Environment and Sustainable 
Development (CERNE2D), Mohammed V University in Rabat, Avenue Ibn Battouta, B.P. 
1014, Rabat 10000, Morocco.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Plants of the genus Euphorbia have long been 
used as traditional medicine in China, Europe, America, Turkey, India, Africa, 
Iran, and Pakistan for their great medicinal value and health benefits. Their 
stems, leaves, roots, and latex are widely used to treat respiratory infections, 
body and skin irritations, digestive disorders, inflammatory infections, body 
pain, snake or scorpion bites, pregnancy, sensory disturbances, microbial and 
anticancer diseases.
OBJECTIVES: This review aims to provide updated information on the genus 
Euphorbia, including traditional medicinal uses, valuation and exploitation of 
medicinal plants, phytochemistry, botanical characterization, pharmacological 
and toxicological research focused on the medicinal properties of several 
Euphorbias in particular their antibacterial, anti-tumor, and cell 
manifestations, in addition to the effect of each isolated bioactive molecule 
from these species and their pharmacological use including preclinical 
evaluation of new drugs.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: This work was conducted using scientific databases such 
as: PubMed, Google Scholar, Scopus, Science Direct, etc. In addition, ChemDraw 
software has been used for the drawing of chemical molecules. The correct names 
of the plants were confirmed from plantlist.org. The results of this review 
research were interpreted, analyzed and documented based on the bibliographical 
information obtained.
RESULTS: Among all the species of the Euphorbiaceae family, 15 species have been 
demonstrated to exhibit anticancer activity, 21 species have antibacterial 
activity, and 10 species have cytotoxic activity. The majority of the chemical 
constituents of this plant include triterpenoid glycosides, diterpenoids, 
flavonoids, and the 4α-methyl steroids. Among them, the main bioactive 
constituents are present in the diterpenoid fraction. The study of more than 33 
steroid plants identified more than 104 compounds. Pharmacological research 
proved that the crude extracts and some pure compounds obtained from Euphorbia 
had activities for the treatment of different diseases. The objective of the 
present study was focused on cytotoxic, antibacterial and antitumor diseases. 
The study of the phytochemistry of the Euphorbia families led to the conclusion 
that all the plants studied had active compounds, of which 27 plants were 
characterized by their cytotoxic effects, 7 had antibacterial effects and 10 
plants had anti-tumor activities. Therefore, the safety of Euphorbia herbal 
medicine should be considered a top priority in the early stages of development 
and clinical trials.
CONCLUSION: Many previous studies have validated many traditional uses of 
Euphorbia species. The latex of some Euphorbia species seems to be toxic 
however, studies dealing with the safety and quality of these species are still 
incomplete. Extensive studies are needed on the Euphorbia plants before they can 
be fully used in clinics as a potent drug candidate, as researchers are focusing 
mainly on diterpenoids and triterpenoids, while there are many other types of 
compounds that may possess new biological activities.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/1568026622666220713143436
PMID: 35838213 [Indexed for MEDLINE]