[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Lasers & Photonics | Topic: laser dermatology skin treatment tattoo hair | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: laser dermatology skin treatment tattoo hair]

16. J Clin Aesthet Dermatol. 2023 Nov;16(11):47-49.

Laser Removal of Eyeliner and Eyebrow Tattoos: Chart Review, Experiences, and 
Learnings.

Kream E(1), Jairath N(2), Bajaj S(1), Orbuch D(1), Wang JV(1), Geronemus 
RG(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Drs. Kream, Bajaj, Orbuch, Wang, and Geronemus are with the Laser and Skin 
Surgery Center of New York in New York, New York.
(2)Dr. Jairath is with the Ronald O. Perelman Department of Dermatology at New 
York University Langone Health in New York, New York.
(3)Additionally, Dr. Geronemus is with the Ronald O. Perelman Department of 
Dermatology at New York University Langone Health in New York, New York.

BACKGROUND: Cosmetic tattoos in the periocular area, including microblading, 
have become increasingly popular. More patients have been seeking laser tattoo 
removal.OBJECTIVE: A retrospective chart review for the laser treatment of 
eyeliner and eyebrow tattoos and a discussion of treatment experiences can 
better inform physicians.
METHODS: A retrospective chart review was performed over five years with 
patients who had eyeliner and/or eyebrow tattoos and had laser removal.
RESULTS: Overall, 76 patients were treated. Mean age was 47 years, and 98.7 
percent were women. Fitzpatrick Skin Types I-VI were represented. Of all cases, 
55.3 percent included eyebrows, 43.4 percent eyelids, and 1.3 percent both. 
There was a mean of 2.8 treatments. Common colors included black (73.7%), 
black/red (7.9%), black/orange (5.3%), black/yellow (3.9%), and red (3.9%). Most 
cases were treated with 755nm picosecond laser or high peak-powered 532nm/1064nm 
picosecond laser. After initial treatment, 26.3 percent of cases involved 
unmasking of colors, such as red, orange, yellow, green, and blue, which were 
not previously visualized. There were no documented adverse events related to 
scarring, hypotrichosis, necrosis, and burns.
CONCLUSION: Laser removal of eyeliner and eyebrow tattoos can be safe and 
effective. There should be consideration for eye and hair protection, pain 
control, and pigment unmasking.

Copyright © 2023. Matrix Medical Communications. All rights reserved.

PMCID: PMC10703503
PMID: 38076654

Conflict of interest statement: DISCLOSURES: Dr. Geronemus is on the advisory 
board for Candela, Cynosure, and Lutronic. Dr. Wang is on the advisory board for 
Lutronic.