[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: Alloy wheel | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Alloy wheel — Overview

of International and American Tru-Spinners were the original ones and were leaders in the industry. Another function of Tru-Spinners was they could also spin backward as the alloy wheel was rolling forward. Although replacing standard steel wheel and tire combinations with lighter alloy wheels and potentially lower profile tires can result in increased performance and handling, this doesn't necessarily hold when increasingly large wheels are employed. Research by Car and Driver conducted using a selection of differently sized alloy wheels from  all outfitted with the same make and model of tires showed that both acceleration and fuel economy suffered with larger wheels. They also noted that ride comfort and noise were negatively affected by the larger wheels. Magnesium alloy wheels

Magnesium alloy wheels were the first die-cast wheels produced, and were often referred to as simply "mag wheels." Magnesium wheels were originally used for racing, but their popularity during the 1960s led to the development of other die-cast wheels, particularly of aluminium alloys. The term "mag wheels" became synonymous with die-cast wheels made from any material, from modern aluminium alloy wheels to plastic and composite wheels used on items like bicycles, wheelchairs, and skateboards. However, pure magnesium wheels are no longer produced, being found only on classic cars. Pure magnesium suffers from many problems. Vintage magnesium rims were very susceptible to pitting, cracking and corrosion. Magnesium in bulk is hard to ignite but pure magnesium wheels can be ignited by a burning tire or by prolonged scraping of the wheel on the road surface following a  puncture. Alloys of magnesium were later developed to alleviate most of these problems. In fact, US Federal Aviation Administration has conducted wide-ranging tests over the past decade, and has reached a conclusion that potential flammability of magnesium is no longer deemed to be a concern. Modern surface treatment technologies provide protection from corrosion and significantly extend the average lifecycle of magnesium rims. Production methods

Forging
Forging can be done by a one or multistep process forging from various magnesium alloys, most commonly AZ80, ZK60 (MA14 in Russia). Wheels produced by this method are usually of higher toughness and ductility than aluminium wheels, although the costs are much higher. Forging is a complicated process that involves such processes, as heating, rolling, applying high pressure, hammering and/or combination of these. As a result, the crystal structure of the alloy changes, and as a result the material becomes stronger and more lightweight. Assembly
There are one- two- and three-piece forged wheels. Every piece is originally an alloy billet, which is further transformed into a wheel, in cases of one-piece forged wheels, or into a wheel part in cases of multi-piece wheels. High pressure die casting 
This process uses a die arranged in a large machine that has high closing force to clamp the die closed. The molten magnesium is poured into a filler tube called a shot sleeve. A piston pushes the metal into the die with high speed and pressure, the magnesium solidifies, and the die is opened, and the wheel is released. Wheels produced by this method can offer reductions in price and improvements in corrosion resistance, but they are less ductile and of lower strength due to the nature of high pressure die casting. Low pressure die casting

This process usually employs a steel die, it is arranged above the crucible filled with molten magnesium. Most commonly, the crucible is sealed against the die and pressurized air/cover gas mix is used to force the molten metal up a straw-like filler tube into the die. When processed using best practice methods, low pressure die casting wheels can offer improvements in ductility over magnesium wheels and any cast aluminium wheels, they remain less ductile than forged magnesium. Gravity casting 
Gravity-cast magnesium wheels have been in production since the early 1920s and provide good ductility, and relative properties above what can be made with aluminium casting. Tooling costs for gravity-cast wheels are among the cheapest of any process. This has allowed small batch production, flexibility in design and short development time. See also 
 Cast alloy wheels

References

External links 

Automobile wheels
Automotive styling features