[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: Photon polarization | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Photon polarization — Overview

is with a similar expression for the y component resulting in . The fraction in both components is Momentum density of classical electromagnetic waves The momentum density is given by the Poynting vector For a sinusoidal plane wave traveling in the z direction, the momentum is in the z direction and is related to the energy density: The momentum density has been averaged over a wavelength. Angular momentum density of classical electromagnetic waves

Electromagnetic waves can have both orbital and spin angular momentum. The total angular momentum density is

For a sinusoidal plane wave propagating along  axis the orbital angular momentum density vanishes. The spin angular momentum density is in the  direction and is given by

where again the density is averaged over a wavelength. Optical filters and crystals

Passage of a classical wave through a polaroid filter

A linear filter transmits one component of a plane wave and absorbs the perpendicular component. In that case, if the filter is polarized in the x direction, the fraction of energy passing through the filter is

Example of energy conservation: Passage of a classical wave through a birefringent crystal

An ideal birefringent crystal transforms the polarization state of an electromagnetic wave without loss of wave energy. Birefringent crystals therefore provide an ideal test bed for examining the conservative transformation of polarization states. Even though this treatment is still purely classical, standard quantum tools such as unitary and Hermitian operators that evolve the state in time naturally emerge. Initial and final states

A birefringent crystal is a material that has an optic axis with the property that the light has a different index of refraction for light polarized parallel to the axis than it has for light polarized perpendicular to the axis. Light polarized parallel to the axis are called "extraordinary rays" or "extraordinary photons", while light polarized perpendicular to the axis are called "ordinary rays" or "ordinary photons". If a linearly polarized wave impinges on the crystal, the extraordinary component of the wave will emerge from the crystal with a different phase than the ordinary component. In mathematical language, if the incident wave is linearly polarized at an angle  with respect to the optic axis, the incident state vector can be written

and the state vector for the emerging wave can be written

While the initial state was linearly polarized, the final state is elliptically polarized. The birefringent crystal alters the character of the polarization. Dual of the final state

The initial polarization state is transformed into the final state with the operator U. The dual of the final state is given by

where  is the adjoint of U, the complex conjugate transpose of the matrix. Unitary operators and energy conservation

The fraction of energy that emerges from the crystal is

In this ideal case, all the energy impinging on the crystal emerges from the crystal. An operator U with the property that

where I is the identity operator and U is called a unitary operator. The unitary property is necessary to ensure energy conservation in state transformations. Hermitian operators and energy conservation

If the crystal is very thin, the final state will be only slightly different from the initial state. The unitary operator will be close to the identity operator. We can define the operator H by

and the adjoint by

Energy conservation then requires

This requires that

Operators like this that are equal to their adjoints are called Hermitian or self-adjoint. The infinitesimal transition of the polarization state is

Thus, energy conservation requires that infinitesimal transformations of a polarization state occur through the action of a Hermitian operator. Photons: The connection to quantum mechanics

Energy, momentum, and angular momentum of photons

Energy

The treatment to this point has been classical. It is a testament, however, to the generality of Maxwell's equations for electrodynamics that the treatment can be made quantum mechanical with only a reinterpretation of classical quantities. The reinterpretation is based on the theories of Max Planck and the interpretation by Albert Einstein of those theories and of other experiments. Einstein's conclusion from early experiments on the photoelectric effect is that electromagnetic radiation is composed of irreducible packets of energy, known as photons. The energy of each packet is related to the angular frequency of the wave by the relation

where  is an experimentally determined quantity known as Planck's constant. If there are  photons in a box of volume , the energy in the electromagnetic field is

and the energy density is

The photon energy can be related to classical fields through the correspondence principle which states that for a large number of photons, the quantum and classical treatments must agree. Thus, for very large , the quantum energy density must be the same as the classical energy density

The number of photons in the box is then

Momentum

The correspondence principle also determines the momentum and angular momentum of the photon.