[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: Nancy Carroll (British actress) | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# Nancy Carroll (British actress) — Overview

Nancy Carroll (born 29th September 1973) is a British actress. She has worked extensively in theatre productions, particularly with the Royal Shakespeare Company. She also has numerous film and television credits, including a long-running feature role as Lady Felicia in the BBC series Father Brown. Early life and education
Nancy Carroll grew up in Herne Hill in south London and attended Alleyn's School where she was an enthusiastic participant in student theatre. Before training in theatre, she worked at a hat shop in Lavender Hill. She trained at the London Academy of Music and Dramatic Art, from which she graduated in June 1998. Acting career
Right after graduation, she landed a small part in the film An Ideal Husband and then joined the Royal Shakespeare Company (RSC). Her first professional stage role was as Ophelia in Hamlet at the Bristol Old Vic in 1999. She has appeared onstage in productions of George Etherege's The Man of Mode (2007), Harley Granville-Barker's The Voysey Inheritance (2006), as Emma Jung in The Talking Cure, and Pierre de Marivaux's The False Servant (2004) at the Royal National Theatre. She has also appeared at the Almeida Theatre in Jonathan Kent's King Lear (also at The Old Vic) and in another Granville-Barker play, Waste (2008). Her "Lady Croom" in the 2009 London revival of Stoppard's Arcadia received favourable reviews, as did her  successful run as the psychologist Dr. Ford in David Mamet's House of Games at the Almeida Theatre. She has appeared onstage with her husband Jo Stone-Fewings several times, in See How They Run (2006) and in the Noël Coward double bill at the Liverpool Playhouse in March 2004 (The Astonished Heart and Still Life). In 2009, she appeared as Viola opposite her husband's Orsino in an RSC production of Twelfth Night directed by Gregory Doran. Carroll appeared alongside Benedict Cumberbatch and Adrian Scarborough in Thea Sharrock's revival of Terence Rattigan's play, After the Dance, at the Royal National Theatre in 2010. Her "heartbreaking performance" won her the Best Actress award in the Evening Standard drama awards and Olivier awards for 2010. Carroll appeared alongside John Lithgow, Joshua McGuire and Nicholas Burns in Arthur Wing Pinero's Victorian farce The Magistrate at the Royal National Theatre in 2012. In 2013 she played the lead role of Felicity Houston in The Duck House by Dan Patterson and Colin Swash, starring alongside Ben Miller and Diana Vickers. The show was a political satire based on the UK parliamentary expenses scandal and toured for 5 weeks before transferring to London's Vaudeville Theatre. On television, she played the part of aristocratic Nazi sympathiser Frances Doble in the BBC2 miniseries Cambridge Spies (2003). Other credits include guest appearances on The Suspicions of Mr Whicher, Silent Witness, Lewis, and episodes of Midsomer Murders. From 2013, she was a regular cast member on the BBC detective series Father Brown, playing wealthy socialite Lady Felicia Montague. In 2017 she was in 4 episodes of Prime Suspect 1973 playing Mary Collins. In March 2022, Carroll debuted in the lead role of Marine Bonnet in Murder in Provence, a BritBox cosy crime drama based on the Verlaque and Bonnet detective novels by M. L. Longworth, alongside Endeavour actor Roger Allam as her romantic partner, Antoine Verlaque. Personal life
She is married to actor Jo Stone-Fewings; the couple have two children. They met as part of an RSC company that went on tour for a week and a half, providing material for Michael Wood's documentary series In Search of Shakespeare (broadcast 2003), and became engaged nine days after first meeting. Credits

Stage
Appearances include:
 For the Royal Shakespeare Company:
 Henry IV, as Lady Percy, directed by Michael Attenborough
 As You Like It, directed by Greg Doran
 The Winter's Tale, directed by Greg Doran
 Twelfth Night, directed by Greg Doran
 The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe, directed by Adrian Noble
 For the Royal National Theatre:
 The Magistrate, directed by Timothy Sheader 
 After The Dance, directed by Thea Sharrock 
 Manor, written and directed by Fiona Buffini 
 For the Donmar Warehouse:
 The Recruiting Officer, directed by Josie Rourke
 Closer, directed by David Leveaux
 The Duck House at the Vaudeville Theatre
 You Never Can Tell at the Garrick Theatre
 Mammals at the Bush Theatre
 A Midsummer Night's Dream, directed by Michael Grandage at the Sheffield Crucible
 The Lady's Not for Burning, directed by Samuel West at the Chichester Festival Theatre
 The Moderate Soprano at the Hampstead Theatre
 Woyzeck, directed by Joe Murphy at The Old Vic

TV
 The Gathering Storm (2002) as Diana Churchill
 Cambridge Spies (2003) as Frances Dobie
 Holby City (1 episode, 2003) as Elaine Gill
 Midsomer Murders (2 episodes) as Antonia Wilmot in "Hidden Depths" (2005) and as Connie Bishop in "The Great and the Good" (2010)
 Dalziel and Pascoe (2007) as Samantha Mantell
 Inspector Lewis (2012, series 6, episode 4) as Anne Rand
 Silent Witness (2 episodes, 2012) as Gill Bailey
 Father Brown (2013–2023) as Lady Felicia Montague
 The Suspicions of Mr Whicher (2014) as Charlotte Piper
 Will (2017) as Ellen Burbage
 The Crown (2019–2020) as Lady Anne Glenconner (third and fourth seasons)
 Agatha Raisin (2020) as Fiona Richards in the episode "As The Pig Turns"
 Murder in Provence (2022) as Marine Bonnet

Film
 An Ideal Husband (1999) 
 Iris (2001) BBC Films

References

External links
 
 Agent page
 Interview

 

1974 births
Alumni of the London Academy of Music and Dramatic Art
British film actresses
British stage actresses
British television actresses
Laurence Olivier Award winners
Living people
People educated at Alleyn's School
Actresses from Cambridge
Royal Shakespeare Company members
People from Herne Hill
Actresses from London