[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: pharmacognosy medicinal plant active compound isol | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: pharmacognosy medicinal plant active compound isolation]

84. Sci Rep. 2022 Aug 17;12(1):13992. doi: 10.1038/s41598-022-18362-x.

Alhagi maurorum extract modulates quorum sensing genes and biofilm formation in 
Proteus mirabilis.

Mirzaei A(1), Nasr Esfahani B(1), Ghanadian M(2), Moghim S(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Bacteriology and Virology, School of Medicine, Isfahan 
University of Medical Sciences, Isfahan, Iran.
(2)Department of Pharmacognosy, School of Pharmacy, Isfahan University of 
Medical Sciences, Isfahan, Iran.
(3)Department of Bacteriology and Virology, School of Medicine, Isfahan 
University of Medical Sciences, Isfahan, Iran. moghim@med.mui.ac.ir.

Proteus mirabilis (P. mirabilis) is a frequent cause of catheter-associated 
urinary tract infections. This study aims to investigate the anti-infective 
effect of Alhagi maurorum extract (AME), the traditional medicinal plant in the 
middle east, on the biofilm-forming P. mirabilis isolates. Hydroalcoholic 
extract and oil of A. maurorum were characterized by HPLC and GC-MS. The 
antiproliferative, anti-biofilm, and bactericidal activity of AME at various 
concentrations were assessed by turbidity, crystal violet binding, and agar well 
diffusion assays, respectively. The AME's effect on adhesion and quorum sensing 
(QS) were investigated by in vitro adhesion assay on cell culture and agar 
overlay assay using Janthinobacterium lividum (ATCC 12472) as a biosensor 
strain. In addition, the expression level of selected genes involved in QS and 
biofilm regulation were determined by quantitative Real-Time PCR. Furthermore, 
the bladder phantom model was created to evaluate the assays and investigate the 
catheter's calcium deposition. The most effective chemical compounds found in 
AME were tamarixetin, quercetin, and trans-anethole. Although AME did not 
inhibit swarming motility, it reduced biofilm production and exerted a 
concentration-dependent anti-adhesive and anti-QS activity against P. mirabilis. 
AME also downregulated the expression level of selected genes involved in 
biofilm formation and QS. This study showed that AME as a natural compound 
reduced biofilm formation of P. mirabilis by targeting virulence factor genes, 
quorum sensing, and other strategies that include preventing the adhesion of P. 
mirabilis to the cells. The results suggest that A. maurorum extract might have 
the potential to be considered for preventing UTIs caused by P. mirabilis.

© 2022. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-022-18362-x
PMCID: PMC9385855
PMID: 35978046 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.