[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: EVALUATION OF IN VITRO ANTIOXIDANT, ANTI-INFLAMMATORY AND TH | Type: OpenAlex-OA | Level: Graduate]

[OpenAlex | Herbal Medicine | Year: 2015 | Citations: 3]

Title: EVALUATION OF IN VITRO ANTIOXIDANT, ANTI-INFLAMMATORY AND THROMBOLYTIC ACTIVITIES OF SCILLA HYACINTHINA, AN ENDANGERED MEDICINAL PLANT

Abstract:
Objective: Scilla hyacinthina (Roth) J. F. Macbr, an endangered medicinal plant (Liliaceae), was analysed for its in vitro antioxidant, anti-inflammatory and thrombolytic potential. Till date, there were no reports about the anti-inflammatory and thrombolytic potential of the plant. Methods: Leaves and bulbs of S. hyacinthina were extracted sequentially with methanol and water. Antioxidant activity of the extracts was studied using DPPH and ABTS ●+ methods. Anti-inflammatory effect and thrombolytic activity of the plant extracts were determined using protein denaturation (albumin) and clot disruption methods respectively. Results: Preliminary screening revealed the presence of phenols, saponins, terpenoids, cardiac glycosides, sterols, phlobatannins, alkaloids and flavonoids. The methanolic leaf extracts exhibited significant bioactivities among all analysed extracts. The above extract exhibited considerable dose-dependent antioxidant activity for DPPH and ABTS ●+ , IC 50 values were 19.79±0.89µg/ml and 21.02±0.72µg/ml resectively. There was a positive correlation between the total phenolic content with DPPH in leaf extract (r 2 =0.94). The methanolic leaf extract of the plant also exhibited concentration dependent inhibition of albumin denaturation with maximum inhibition of 60.42%±0.91 and was found to be significant (p<0.044) with diclofenac. Methanolic leaf extracts showed maximum clot lytic activity (40%±2.19) and was statistically significant (p<0.001), when compared with streptokinase. Conclusion: The present study promisingly revealed that S. hyacinthina may be an effective potential sources of novel antioxidant, anti-inflammatory and thrombolytic drugs. Further research is necessary to identify the bioactive compound(s) responsible for the above mentioned activities.