[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: MRI physics image quality artifact reduction | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: MRI physics image quality artifact reduction]

98. MAGMA. 2012 Jun;25(3):183-92. doi: 10.1007/s10334-011-0275-6. Epub 2011 Aug
4.

Highly accelerated PSF-mapping for EPI distortion correction with improved 
fidelity.

In MH(1), Speck O.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical Magnetic Resonance, Institute for Experimental 
Physics, Otto-von-Guericke University Magdeburg, Magdeburg, Germany. 
myung-ho.in@ovgu.de

OBJECTIVE: This study presents an improved point-spread-function (PSF) 
mapping-based distortion correction method and accelerated PSF acquisition for 
distortion correction in EPI without loss of quality or reliability compared to 
full encoding.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: To correct geometric distortions accurately, the PSF in 
the EPI phase-encoding coordinates (EPI-PSF) was measured and used as a kernel 
for distortion correction. FOV reduction was applied in the PSF mapping 
dimension for highly accelerated PSF acquisition. A novel approach for fold-over 
artifact correction in this reduced dimension is introduced. Conventional 
gradient-echo EPI and corresponding full PSF reference data were acquired in 
phantoms and in human brain at 7 T. The distortion corrected EPI data with the 
proposed acceleration were compared to result with full encoding. Previously 
published interpolation methods based on shift maps, non-uniform Fourier 
transformation and a b-spline interpolation were compared with the proposed 
method.
RESULTS: The results demonstrate that the proposed method corrects geometric 
distortions in EPI with high accuracy and quality despite the high acceleration. 
In contrast to partial parallel imaging acceleration, no noise enhancement is 
introduced.
CONCLUSION: The proposed EPI-PSF-based distortion correction improves correction 
of EPI and accelerates PSF reference data acquisition and computation.

DOI: 10.1007/s10334-011-0275-6
PMID: 21814756 [Indexed for MEDLINE]