[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Complex Circuit Systems | Topic: Design for security in mixed analog-digital integrated circu | Type: OpenAlex-OA | Level: Graduate]

[OpenAlex | Circuit Engineering | Year: 2021 | Citations: 2]

Title: Design for security in mixed analog-digital integrated circuits

Abstract:
Recently, the enormous cost of owning and maintaining a modern semiconductor manufacturing plant has coerced many companies to go fabless. By outsourcing the manufacturing IC/IP to third-party and often off-shore companies, the process has been extended to potentially untrustworthy companies. This has resulted in several security threats to the semiconductor industry such as counterfeiting, reverse engineering, and HTs insertion. In this thesis, we propose an anti-piracy countermeasure to protect AMS ICs/IPs, a novel HT attack for AMS ICs/IPs, and a novel PUF. More specifically, we propose an anti-piracy technique based on locking for programmable analog circuits. The proposed technique leverages the programmability fabric to implement a natural lock-less locking. We discuss its implementation and its resilience capabilities against foreseen attacks. The proposed HT attack for analog circuits leverages the test infrastructure. The HT is hidden effectively in a digital core and transfers its payload to the analog circuit via the test bus and the interface of the analog circuit to the test bus. Its key characteristic is that it is invisible in the analog domain. The proposed HT is demonstrated on two case studies. This thesis sheds light on the importance of developing new security and trust countermeasures tailored for analog circuits. The proposed PUF, called "neuron-PUF", uses a single spiking neuron as the source of entropy. Its key characteristic is that it uses a single PUF cell and temporal redundancy to generate an arbitrarily long key, which results in significant low area and power overheads compared to mainstream PUFs, such as delay-based and memory-based PUFs.