[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: ethnobotany traditional medicine biological activi | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: ethnobotany traditional medicine biological activity]

72. J Ethnopharmacol. 2022 Jul 15;293:115263. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2022.115263.
Epub  2022 Apr 12.

A review on the ethnobotany, phytochemistry, pharmacology and toxicology of 
butterbur species (Petasites L.).

Kulinowski Ł(1), Luca SV(2), Minceva M(3), Skalicka-Woźniak K(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Natural Products Chemistry, Medical University of Lublin, 
20-093, Lublin, Poland.
(2)Biothermodynamics, TUM School of Life Sciences, Technical University of 
Munich, 85354, Freising, Germany. Electronic address: vlad.luca@tum.de.
(3)Biothermodynamics, TUM School of Life Sciences, Technical University of 
Munich, 85354, Freising, Germany.
(4)Department of Natural Products Chemistry, Medical University of Lublin, 
20-093, Lublin, Poland. Electronic address: kskalicka@pharmacognosy.org.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Petasites (butterbur, Asteraceae) species have 
been used since Ancient times in the traditional medicine of Asian and European 
countries to treat central nervous system (migraine), respiratory (asthma, 
allergic rhinitis, bronchitis, spastic cough), cardiovascular (hypertension), 
gastrointestinal (ulcers) and genitourinary (dysmenorrhea) disorders.
AIM OF THE REVIEW: This study summarized and discussed the traditional uses, 
phytochemical, pharmacological and toxicological aspects of Petasites genus.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A systematic search of Petasites in online databases 
(Scopus, PubMed, ScienceDirect, Google Scholar) was performed, with the aim to 
find the phytochemical, toxicological and bioactivity studies. The Global 
Biodiversity Information Facility, Plants of the World Online, World Flora 
Online and The Plant List databases were used to describe the taxonomy and 
geographical distribution.
RESULTS: The detailed phytochemistry of the potentially active compounds of 
Petasites genus (e.g. sesquiterpenes, pyrrolizidine alkaloids, polyphenols and 
essential oils components) was presented. The bioactivity studies (cell-free, 
cell-based, animal, and clinical) including the traditional uses of Petasites 
(e.g. anti-spasmolytic, hypotensive, anti-asthmatic activities) were addressed 
and followed by discussion of the main pharmacokinetical and toxicological 
issues related to the administration of butterbur-based formulations.
CONCLUSIONS: This review provides a complete overview of the Petasites 
geographical distribution, traditional use, phytochemistry, bioactivity, and 
toxicity. More than 200 different sesquiterpenes (eremophilanes, 
furanoeremophilanes, bakkenolides), 50 phenolic compounds (phenolic acids, 
flavonoids, lignans) and volatile compounds (monoterpenes, sesquiterpenes) have 
been reported within the genus. Considering the phytochemical complexity and the 
polypharmacological potential, there is a growing research interest to extend 
the current therapeutical applications of Petasites preparations (anti-migraine, 
anti-allergic) to other human ailments, such as central nervous system, 
cardiovascular, malignant or microbial diseases. This research pathway is 
extremely important, especially in the recent context of the pandemic situation, 
when there is an imperious need for novel drug candidates.

Copyright © 2022 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2022.115263
PMID: 35427728 [Indexed for MEDLINE]