[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Crystals, Metals & Materials | Topic: crystal structure protein drug target binding | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: crystal structure protein drug target binding]

29. Expert Opin Drug Discov. 2022 Mar;17(3):283-295. doi: 
10.1080/17460441.2022.2017876. Epub 2021 Dec 21.

Hidden allosteric sites and De-Novo drug design.

Rehman AU(1), Lu S(1), Khan AA(2), Khurshid B(3), Rasheed S(4), Wadood A(3), 
Zhang J(1)(5).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Cell Differentiation and Apoptosis of Chinese Ministry of 
Education, Clinical and Fundamental Research Center, Renji Hospital, Shanghai 
Jiao-Tong University School of Medicine, Shanghai, China.
(2)Bio-X Institutes, Key Laboratory for the Genetics of Development and 
Neuropsychiatric Disorders (Ministry of Education), Shanghai Key Laboratory of 
Psychotic Disorders, and Brain Science and Technology Research Center, Institute 
of Psychology and Behavioral Sciences, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai, 
China.
(3)Department of Biochemistry, Abdul Wali Khan University Mardan, Mardan, 
Pakistan.
(4)National Center for Bioinformatics, Quaid-e-Azam University, Islamabad, 
Pakistan.
(5)School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Zhengzhou University, Zhengzhou, China.

INTRODUCTION: Hidden allosteric sites are not visible in apo-crystal structures, 
but they may be visible in holo-structures when a certain ligand binds and 
maintains the ligand intended conformation. Several computational and 
experimental techniques have been used to investigate these hidden sites but 
identifying them remains a challenge.
AREAS COVERED: This review provides a summary of the many theoretical approaches 
for predicting hidden allosteric sites in disease-related proteins. Furthermore, 
promising cases have been thoroughly examined to reveal the hidden allosteric 
site and its modulator.
EXPERT OPINION: In the recent past, with the development in scientific 
techniques and bioinformatics tools, the number of drug targets for complex 
human diseases has significantly increased but unfortunately most of these 
targets are undruggable due to several reasons. Alternative strategies such as 
finding cryptic (hidden) allosteric sites are an attractive approach for 
exploitation of the discovery of new targets. These hidden sites are difficult 
to recognize compared to allosteric sites, mainly due to a lack of visibility in 
the crystal structure. In our opinion, after many years of development, MD 
simulations are finally becoming successful for obtaining a detailed molecular 
description of drug-target interaction.

DOI: 10.1080/17460441.2022.2017876
PMID: 34933653 [Indexed for MEDLINE]