[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: magnetic resonance spectroscopy metabolite brain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: magnetic resonance spectroscopy metabolite brain]

81. Schizophr Res. 2013 Aug;148(1-3):59-66. doi: 10.1016/j.schres.2013.05.024.
Epub  2013 Jun 20.

Brain metabolite alterations in young adults at familial high risk for 
schizophrenia using proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy.

Tandon N(1), Bolo NR, Sanghavi K, Mathew IT, Francis AN, Stanley JA, Keshavan 
MS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center and 
Massachusetts Mental Health Center, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA. 
neerajtandon25@gmail.com

BACKGROUND: Proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy ((1)H MRS) enables in-vivo 
measurement of several relevant brain metabolites and has provided evidence of a 
range of neurochemical abnormalities in schizophrenia, especially in glutamate 
and N-acetyl-aspartate (NAA). While individuals at high familial risk for 
schizophrenia (HR) exhibit some neurobiological findings observed in the 
disorder, (1)H MRS findings and their clinical correlates are not well 
characterized in this population.
METHODS: We compared 23 adolescent and young adult offspring of schizophrenia 
patients with 24 age- and sex-matched healthy controls using (1)H MRS. We 
acquired multi-voxel, short TE (1)H MRS measurements at 1.5T and obtained 
metabolite concentrations of N-acetyl-aspartate (NAA), combined glutamate and 
glutamine (Glu+Gln) and choline-containing compounds (GPC+PC) for the left and 
right thalamus, anterior cingulate gyrus, and caudate. We also assessed the 
relationship between regional metabolite levels, clinical measures and brain 
volume in a subset of 16 high-risk and 15 control subjects.
RESULTS: Compared to healthy controls, high-risk subjects showed reductions in 
NAA levels in all three regions (thalamus, caudate, and anterior cingulate 
cortex), increases in Glu+Gln in the thalamus and caudate, and increases in 
GPC+PC in the anterior cingulate. In HR, thalamic Glu+Gln concentration was 
positively correlated and thalamic NAA inversely correlated with measures of 
schizotypy. Anterior cingulate GPC+PC and caudate Glu+Gln were significantly 
correlated with attenuated psychotic symptom severity. Anterior cingulate NAA 
was correlated with executive function.
CONCLUSIONS: Our data suggest the occurrence of metabolic alterations in young 
relatives of schizophrenia patients similar to those seen in patients with 
established illness. The observed correlations with cognitive deficits and 
psychosis-related psychopathology suggest that these metabolic measures may have 
value as biomarkers of risk for schizophrenia.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.schres.2013.05.024
PMID: 23791389 [Indexed for MEDLINE]