[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Herbal Medicine & Apothecary | Topic: pharmacognosy medicinal plant active compound isol | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: pharmacognosy medicinal plant active compound isolation]

27. Ann Pharmacother. 1993 Mar;27(3):330-6. doi: 10.1177/106002809302700316.

Capsaicin: identification, nomenclature, and pharmacotherapy.

Cordell GA(1), Araujo OE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicinal Chemistry and Pharmacognosy, College of Pharmacy, 
University of Illinois, Chicago 60612.

OBJECTIVE: To provide a brief overview of the chemical history, analysis, 
nomenclature, biology, pharmacology, and pharmacotherapy of capsaicin.
DATA SOURCES: Chemical Abstracts, Biological Abstracts, and a MEDLINE search 
were used to identify pertinent literature; selected literature was used in this 
review.
DATA EXTRACTION: Original articles, reviews, and abstracts of articles were used 
to select material pertinent to the objectives of the review. The volume of 
material available prohibits comprehensive data extraction.
CONCLUSIONS: A history of the use of Capsicum spp. and the predominant active 
ingredient, capsaicin, the parent compound of a group of vanillyl fatty acid 
amides, is presented. Distinct structural differences are noted between this 
compound and the capsaicinoids, especially the synthetic analog nonivamide, 
which has appeared as an adulterant in capsaicin-labeled products. Analysis 
shows that although some of these synthetic analogs eventually may prove to be 
true natural products, conclusive evidence based on isolation and structure 
elucidation is still absent after decades of attempted isolation from several 
potential natural sources. Although the crude, dark oleoresin extract of 
capsicum contains over 100 distinct volatile compounds and therefore may 
function in many ways dissimilar to capsaicin, the oleoresin continues to be 
marketed in products with a high degree of variability in efficacy. Capsaicin as 
a pure white crystalline material, however, acts specifically by depleting 
stores of substance P from sensory neurons, and has been successful in the 
treatment of several painful conditions (e.g., rheumatoid arthritis, 
osteoarthritis, peripheral neuropathies.

DOI: 10.1177/106002809302700316
PMID: 8453173 [Indexed for MEDLINE]