[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Magnets & Applied Magnetism | Topic: magnetic resonance spectroscopy metabolite brain | Type: PubMed-Abstract | Level: Graduate]

[Source: PubMed | Query: magnetic resonance spectroscopy metabolite brain]

86. Schizophr Res. 2019 Aug;210:239-244. doi: 10.1016/j.schres.2018.12.028. Epub 
2019 Jan 7.

A longitudinal magnetic resonance spectroscopy study investigating effects of 
risperidone in the anterior cingulate cortex and hippocampus in schizophrenia.

Kraguljac NV(1), Morgan CJ(2), Reid MA(3), White DM(1), Jindal RD(4), Sivaraman 
S(1), Martinak BK(1), Lahti AC(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Neurobiology, University of Alabama 
at Birmingham, United States of America.
(2)Department of Biostatistics, University of Alabama at Birmingham, United 
States of America.
(3)MRI Research Center, Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, 
Auburn University, United States of America.
(4)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Neurobiology, University of Alabama 
at Birmingham, United States of America; Department of Neurology, Birmingham VA 
Medical Center, United States of America.
(5)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Neurobiology, University of Alabama 
at Birmingham, United States of America. Electronic address: alahti@uab.edu.

Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy is a popular approach to probe brain chemistry 
in schizophrenia (SZ), but no consensus exists as to the extent of alterations. 
This may be attributable to differential effects of populations studied, brain 
regions examined, or antipsychotic medication effects. Here, we measured 
neurometabolites in the anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) and hippocampus, two 
structurally dissimilar brain regions implicated in the SZ pathophysiology. We 
enrolled 61 SZ with the goal to scan them before and after six weeks of 
treatment with risperidone. We also scanned 31 matched healthy controls twice, 
six weeks apart. Using mixed effect repeated measures linear models to examine 
the effect of group and time on metabolite levels in each voxel, we report an 
increase in hippocampal glutamate + glutamine (Glx) in SZ compared to controls 
(p = 0.043), but no effect of antipsychotic medication (p = 0.330). In the ACC, 
we did not find metabolite alterations or antipsychotic medication related 
changes after six weeks of treatment with risperidone. The coefficients for the 
discriminant function (differentiating SZ from HC) in the ACC were greatest for 
NAA (-0.83), and in the hippocampus for Glx (0.76), the same metabolites were 
associated with greater treatment response in patients at trend level. Taken 
together, our data extends the existing literature by demonstrating regionally 
distinct metabolite alterations in the same patient group and suggests that 
antipsychotic medications may have limited effects on metabolite levels in these 
regions.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.schres.2018.12.028
PMCID: PMC7881837
PMID: 30630705 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICT OF INTEREST Dr. Lahti has received an 
investigator initiated grant from Janssen Pharmaceuticals. All other authors 
declare no conflicts of interest, including relevant financial interests, 
activities, relationships, and affiliations.