[Domain: Applied Sciences | Subfield: Propulsion Mechanics | Topic: LVM3 | Type: Encyclopedia | Level: Graduate]
# LVM3 — Overview

long, and carries of hydroxyl-terminated polybutadiene (HTPB) based propellant in three segments with casings made out of M250 maraging steel. It is the largest solid-fuel booster after the SLS SRBs, the Space Shuttle SRBs and the Ariane 5 SRBs. The flex nozzles can be vectored up to ±8° using electro-hydraulic actuators operating in blow-down mode and are used for vehicle control during the initial ascent phase. Hydraulic fluid for operating these actuators is stored in an externally mounted cylindrical tank at the base of each booster. These boosters burn for 130 seconds and produce an average thrust of  and a peak thrust of  each. The second stage, designated L110, is a liquid-fueled stage that is  tall and  wide, and contains  of unsymmetrical dimethylhydrazine (UDMH) and nitrogen tetroxide (). It is powered by two Vikas 2 engines, each generating  thrust, giving a total thrust of . The L110 is the first clustered liquid-fueled engine designed in India. The Vikas engines uses regenerative cooling, providing improved weight and specific impulse compared to earlier Indian rockets. Each Vikas engine can be individually gimbaled to control vehicle pitch, yaw and roll control. The L110 core stage ignites 114 seconds after liftoff and burns for 203 seconds. Since the L110 stage is air-lit, its engines need shielding during flight from the exhaust of the operating S200 boosters and reverse flow of gases by a 'nozzle closure system' which gets jettisoned prior to L110 ignition. The cryogenic upper stage, designated C25, is  in diameter and  long, and contains  of propellant LOX and LH2, pressurized by helium stored in submerged bottles. It is powered by a single CE-20 engine, producing  of thrust. CE-20 is the first cryogenic engine developed by India which uses a gas generator, as compared to the staged combustion engines used in GSLV. In LVM3-M3 mission, a new white coloured C25  stage was introduced which has more environmental-friendly manufacturing processes, better insulation properties and the use of lightweight materials. The CFRP composite payload fairing has a diameter of  and a payload volume of . Variants and upgrades

Mating with semi-cryogenic stage

The L110 core stage in the LVM3 is planned to be replaced by the SC120, a kerolox stage powered by the SCE-200 engine to increase its payload capacity to  to geostationary transfer orbit (GTO). The SCE-200 uses kerosene instead of unsymmetrical dimethylhydrazine (UDMH) as fuel and has a thrust of around 200 tonnes. Four such engines can be clustered in a rocket without strap on boosters to deliver up to  to GTO. The first propellant tank for the SC120 was delivered in October 2021 by HAL. The SC120-powered version of GSLV will not be used for the crewed mission of the Gaganyaan spacecraft. In September 2019, in an interview by AstrotalkUK, S. Somanath, director of Vikram Sarabhai Space Centre claimed that the SCE-200 engine was ready to begin testing. As per an agreement between India and Ukraine signed in 2005, Ukraine was expected to test components of the SCE-200 engine, so an upgraded version of the LVM3 was not expected before 2022. The SCE-200 engine is reported to be based on the Ukrainian RD-810, which itself is proposed for use on the Mayak family of launch vehicles. Induction of C32 stage

The C25 stage with nearly  propellant load will be replaced by the C32, with a higher propellant load of . The C32 stage will be re-startable and with uprated CE-20 engine. Total mass of avionics will be brought down by using miniaturised components. On 30 November 2020, Hindustan Aeronautics Limited delivered an aluminium alloy based cryogenic tank to ISRO. The tank has a capacity of  of fuel, and a volume of . On 9 November 2022, CE-20 cryogenic engine of upper stage was tested with an uprated thrust regime of 21.8 tonnes in November 2022. Along a suitable stage with additional propellant loading this could increase payload capacity of LVM3 to GTO by up to  . On 23 December 2022, CE-20 engine E9 was hot tested for 650 second duration. For the first 40 seconds of test, the engine was operated at 20.2 tonne thrust level, after this engine was operated at 20 tonne off-nominal zones and then for 435 seconds it was operated at 22.2 tonne thrust level. With this test, the 'E9' engine has been qualified for induction in flight. Human-rating

While the LVM3 is being human rated for Gaganyaan project, the rocket was always designed with potential human spaceflight applications in consideration. The maximum acceleration during ascent phase of flight was limited to 4 Gs for crew comfort and a diameter payload fairing was used to be able to accommodate large modules like space station segments. Furthermore, a number of changes to make safety-critical subsystems reliable are planned for lower operating margins, redundancy, stringent qualification requirements, revaluation, and strengthening of components. Avionics:

 Quad-redundant Navigation and Guidance Computer (NGC)
 Dual chain Telemetry & Telecommand Processor (TTCP)
 Integrated Health Monitoring System (LVHM)

Launch Vehicle:

 High Thrust Vikas engines (HTVE)  of L110 core stage will operate at a chamber pressure of 58.5 bar instead of 62 bar.