# British America

British America comprised the colonial territories of the English Empire, and the successor British Empire, in the Americas from 1607 to 1783.
These colonies were formally known as British America and the British West Indies immediately prior to thirteen of the colonies seceding in the American Revolutionary War (1775–1783) and forming the United States of America. 

After the conclusion of war in 1783, the term British North America was used to refer to the remainder of Great Britain's possessions in what became Canada, the British West Indies in reference to its various island territories, Belize, and Guyana. The term British North America was used in 1783, but it was more commonly used after the Report on the Affairs of British North America, published in 1839 and generally known as the Durham Report.

History 

A number of English colonies were established in America between 1607 and 1670 by individuals and companies whose investors expected to reap rewards from their speculation. They were granted commercial charters by Kings James I, Charles I, and Charles II, and by the British Parliament. Later, most colonies were founded, or converted to, royal colonies. In 1607, the London Company (fully titled the Virginia Company of London, but better known as the "Virginia Company") founded the first permanent settlement on the James River at Jamestown, Virginia upstream from Chesapeake Bay. English settlement in the Somers Isles (or Islands of Bermuda), 640 miles off Cape Hatteras, began in 1609 with the wreck of the Sea Venture, leaving the Virginia Company in de facto possession of Bermuda. The company's charter was extended in 1612 to officially encompass the archipelago, and settlers were despatched to join the three men remaining there from the Sea Venture (and plans were begun for an under-company that would become the Somers Isles Company). This was followed, in 1620, with the Pilgrims establishing the Plymouth settlement in New England. English Catholics settled the Province of Maryland in 1634, under Cecilus Calvert, second Lord Baltimore. 

A state department in London known as the Southern Department governed all the colonies beginning in 1660 along with a committee of the Privy Council, called the Board of Trade and Plantations. In 1768, Parliament created a specific state department for America, but it was disbanded in 1782 when the Home Office took responsibility for the remaining possessions of British North America in Eastern Canada, the Floridas, and the West Indies.

British America gained large amounts of territory with the Treaty of Paris of 1763, which ended the French and Indian War in America and the Seven Years' War in Europe. At the start of the American Revolutionary War in 1775, the British Empire included 23 colonies and territories on the North American continent. The Treaty of Paris of 1783 ended the Revolutionary War, and Britain lost much of this territory to the newly formed United States. In addition, Britain ceded East and West Florida to the Kingdom of Spain, which in turn ceded them to the United States in 1821. The Atlantic archipelago of the Bahamas had been administratively grouped with the North American continent, but with the loss of the Floridas was grouped with the British colonies of the Caribbean as the British West Indies. Most of the remaining colonies to the north (including the continental colonies and the archipelago of Bermuda, the nearest landfall from which was North Carolina, but the nearest other British territory from which became Nova Scotia) formed the Dominion of Canada in 1867, with the colony of Newfoundland (which had been the Dominion of Newfoundland from 1907 to 1934, before reverting to a colony) joining the independent Commonwealth realm of Canada in 1949, and Bermuda, elevated (by the independence of the thirteen colonies that became the United States) to the role of an Imperial fortress and the most important British naval and military base in the Western Hemisphere (due to its location,  south of Nova Scotia, and  north of the British Virgin Islands, and handily placed for naval and amphibious operations against its nearest neighbour, the nascent United States, during the 19th Century), remains as a British Overseas Territory today.

In the Caribbean, the British West Indies and other European sugar colonies were at the center for the Atlantic slave trade.

Imperial administration 
From 1783 through 1801, the British Empire, including British North America, was administered by the Home Office and by the Home Secretary, then from 1801 to 1854 by the War Office (which became the War and Colonial Office) and Secretary of State for War and Colonies (as the Secretary of State for War was renamed). From 1824, the British Empire was divided by the War and Colonial Office into four administrative departments, including NORTH AMERICA, the WEST INDIES, MEDITERRANEAN AND AFRICA, and EASTERN COLONIES, of which North America included:

North America
 Upper Canada, Lower Canada
 New Brunswick, Nova Scotia, Prince Edward Island
 Bermuda, Newfoundland

The Colonial Office and War Office, and the Secretary of State for the Colonies and the Secretary of State for War, were separated in 1854. The War Office, from then until the 1867 confederation of the Dominion of Canada, split the military administration of the British colonial and foreign stations into nine districts: North America And North Atlantic; West Indies; Mediterranean; West Coast Of Africa And South Atlantic; South Africa; Egypt And The Sudan; INDIAN OCEAN; Australia; and China. North America And North Atlantic included the following stations (or garrisons):

North America and North Atlantic
 New Westminster (British Columbia)
 Newfoundland
 Quebec
 Halifax
 Kingston, Canada West
 Bermuda

North American colonies in 1775 
The Thirteen Colonies that became the original states of the United States were:

 New England Colonies
Province of Massachusetts Bay
Province of New Hampshire
Colony of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations
Connecticut Colony

 Middle Colonies
Province of New York
Province of New Jersey
Province of Pennsylvania
Delaware Colony

 Southern Colonies
Province of Maryland
Colony of Virginia
Province of North Carolina
Province of South Carolina
Province of Georgia

Colonies and territories that became part of British North America (and from 1867 the Dominion of Canada):

Province of Quebec northeast of the Great Lakes (including Labrador until 1791)
Nova Scotia (including New Brunswick until 1784)
Island of St. John
Rupert's Land
North-Western Territory
British Arctic Territories

Colonies that became part of British North America (but which would be left out of the 1867 Confederation of Canada:

 Bermuda
Colony of Newfoundland

Colonies and territories that were ceded to Spain or the United States in 1783:

Province of East Florida (Spanish 1783–1823, U.S. after 1823)
Province of West Florida (Spanish 1783–1823, U.S. after 1823)
Indian Reserve (U.S. after 1783)
Province of Quebec southwest of the Great Lakes (U.S. after 1783)

Colonies in the Caribbean, Mid-Atlantic, and South America in 1783 
 Divisions of the British Leeward Islands
Saint Christopher (de facto capital)
Antigua
Barbuda
British Virgin Islands
Montserrat
Nevis
Anguilla

 Island of Jamaica and its dependencies
Island of Jamaica
Settlement of Belize in British Honduras
Mosquito Coast
Bay Islands
Cayman Islands
Old Providence Island Colony

 Other possessions in the British Windward Islands
Island of Barbados
Island of Grenada
Island of St. Vincent
Island of Tobago (detached from Grenada in 1768)
Island of Dominica (detached from Grenada in 1770)

See also 

 Evolution of the British Empire
 British colonization of the Americas
 Colonial history of the United States
 Former colonies and territories in Canada
 British colonization of Australia
 British colonization of New Zealand
 British North America Acts
 British overseas territories

Notes

References 

1607 establishments in the British Empire
1783 disestablishments in North America
1783 disestablishments in the British Empire
British colonization of the Americas
British North America
Colonial United States (British)
Colonization history of the United States
English-speaking countries and territories
History of the Caribbean
States and territories established in 1607