# Unsustainable fishing methods

Unsustainable fishing methods refers to the utilization of the various fishing methods in order to capture or harvest fish at a rate which sees the declining of fish populations over time. These methods are observed to facilitate the destructive fishing practices that destroy ecosystems within the ocean, and more readily results in overfishing, the depletion of fish populations at a rate that cannot be sustained.

These unsustainable fishing methods vary in capabilities, ranging from commercial-grade equipment, such as bottom trawling, to consumer-grade equipment, such as fishing rods and nets. It is the combination of these methods and increasing fishing pressures through sociological practices such as over-exploitation and over-fishing, which makes these fishing methods unsustainable.

Defining unsustainable 
The unsustainable nature of fisheries can be characterized by three aspects, as stated by Ray Hilborn:

Inconsistent long-term yield refers to the imbalance in nature when fishing is practised improperly, which results in the inability to capture the maximum sustainable yield at a regular and predictable rate.
Endangering intergenerational equity relates to the destruction of ecosystems that requires more than one generation to reverse, disallowing future generations the opportunity to capture that same yield.
Destroying a biological, social, and economic system priorities the health of the human ecosystem or livelihood over that of the ocean's biodiversity, where the depletion of individual stock is carried out until the ecosystem's intrinsic integrity is lost.

Types of unsustainable fishing methods

Bottom trawling 
Bottom trawling is classified as an active gear that consists of a large weighted net, which trawls or "drags" along the sea floor; acting as a destructive mechanism that removes coral and other marine species. As stated by the Sea Fish Industry Authority, the trawl consists of several components that assist the catch composition of the gear, which includes:

 The otter boards which herd the fish into the trawl path by dragging up a "sand cloud" that creates a barrier of escape.
 The sweeps and bridles continue to herd the fish further into the trawl.
 The wings and ground gear minimize the potential for fish to escape, which also tires the fish and enables them to drop into the body of the net.

Bottom trawling is scientifically divided into two types of trawling, demersal trawling and benthic trawling, which allows trawlers to target species that live close to the seabed, or those that live on or in the seabed respectively.

Cyanide fishing 

Cyanide fishing is used as a method to capture live fish to supply the international aquarium trade, and more recently, to supply the demand for live reef fish by restaurants. This method involves the spraying of sodium cyanide into the targeted fish's habitat as a means of stunning the fish without killing them. For each fish captured using sodium cyanide, a square metre of coral reef is destroyed.

Dynamite fishing 
Dynamite fishing or blast fishing is a technique that detonates explosives underwater in order to easily kill schools of fish and maximize yield. The dead or stunned fish then floats to the surface of the water where they can be easily harvested. Along with the fish, the entire ecosystem, such as coral reefs, and other marine organisms within the blast radius can be destroyed; which in the coral reef's case, can take hundreds of years to rebuild.

Ghost fishing  

Ghost gear is fishing gear that has been left or lost in the ocean.  The gear can potentially continue to catch or entangle any species of marine life as it drifts through the water or snags on rocky reef, eventually killing the entangled organism through laceration, suffocation or starvation.

By-catch 
By-catching is an inevitable aspect of fishing where unwanted fish or other marine organisms including turtles, dolphins and juveniles are caught. This is a by-product of the unselective nature of modern fishing gear, such as bottom trawling which captures everything in the path of the net. Consumer-grade gear such as fishing rods and nets are used by pirate fishers to undertake illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing which adds to the number of marine species taken from their ecosystems.

Evidence that these methods are unsustainable 
Examples of the use of unsustainable fishing methods exist globally and not only impacts the harvested species, but also all marine species that coexist or rely on the targeted harvest.

 Bottom trawling in Canadian waters have shown the destructive effects of the fishing method. With the establishment of Baffin Bay fishery in 1996, feeding grounds for narwhals in the Canadian Arctic are shown to be impacted by vast benthic damage as a result of bottom trawling. Hence why leading marine environmentalists describes bottom trawling as a 'great harm' to fisheries.
 In the 1960s, the commercial use of poisons such as sodium cyanide (cyanide fishing), were used throughout Southeast Asia to serve the market demand for high-value coral fish. This has evidently impacted the local ecosystem through coral bleaching and the killing of untargeted species.
 The use of dynamite fishing or blast fishing is evident in coastal regions of Tanzania. The vast use of this method in the region has seen marine scientists, international environmental NGOs, and environment activists label the practice as destructive and unsustainable. The profit from their catches is described to be a factor in the continual use of the dangerous practice.
 During the period between 2000 and 2001, a field study was conducted in Oman to simulate the catch rate of fishing gear that has been lost in the ocean (ghost fishing), by setting nets at various depths in fishing grounds across cities in Oman. The study found that the mortality rate as a result of these simulated tests, estimated to 1.3kg per a trap, per a day. This evaluated to a predicted mortality rate of 78.4kg per a lost gear, over six months.
 A study conducted in the Glover's Reef Marine Reserve, Belize, between 2004-2010 and 2011-2017, found that the mortality rates for most species were much higher than the natural mortality rate. This is a result of over-fishing with the main gears being used in those regions consisting of spears and fishing rods. By-catching was also observed through the frequent catching of immature grouper and snapper species.

Mitigation using sustainable methods 
Concerns over the unsustainable nature of the use of these fishing methods have been identified by the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea treaty which focuses attention on over-fishing through the use of these methods.  According to the United Nations convention agreements in exclusive economic zones (1994):

 Article 61 focuses on the "conservation of the living resources" which obligates the coastal state to properly conserve and manage its living resources to ensure that these resources are not over-exploited. The state is also obligated to maintain maximum sustainable yield of harvested populations whilst also taking into consideration other species that are associated or depend on that harvested population.
 Article 62 concerns the "utilization of the living resources" in relations to the governing of harvesting those living resources within the coastal state's exclusive economic zone. This includes the enforcement of conservation measures, such as the licensing of fishing vessels and equipment, regulating the type, size and amount of gear used and permitting the landing of all or any part of the catch in ports.
 Article 65 relates to "marine mammals" and the rights of the coastal state to prohibit, limit, or regulate the exploitation of marine animals.

These convention agreements are recognized by global fisheries that resultantly employ harvest strategies and guidelines, such as gear restrictions and deployment limits, to maintain the use of these unsustainable fishing methods. Examples of such strategies and guidelines employed by global fisheries are listed below:

 The Australian Fisheries Management Authority (AFMA) recognizes the impact that bottom trawlers may have on sensitive habitat areas, like reef structures (AFMA, 2020). As a result, management arrangements that include the compulsory use of physical devices, such as bycatch reduction devices (BRD) within trawls, ensures that the use of trawl poses the least environmental impact. BRDs minimizes the by-catch of many species of juveniles, by using a minimum sized mesh which enables untargeted fish species to escape the trawl net.
Fisheries and Oceans Canada identifies ghost fishing as a major threat to the marine ecosystem. Resultantly, Canadian fisheries have implemented a cooperative strategy with harvesters, to undertake ghost-gear removal. This extends to the implementation of compulsory reporting of lost fishing gear and the active seeking of mitigation methods that may