# Efficient coding hypothesis

The efficient coding hypothesis was proposed by Horace Barlow in 1961 as a theoretical model of sensory coding in the brain.  Within the brain, neurons communicate with one another by sending electrical impulses referred to as action potentials or spikes.  One goal of sensory neuroscience is to decipher the meaning of these spikes in order to understand how the brain represents and processes information about the outside world.  Barlow hypothesized that the spikes in the sensory system formed a neural code for efficiently representing sensory information. By efficient Barlow meant that the code minimized the number of spikes needed to transmit a given signal. This is somewhat analogous to transmitting information across the internet, where different file formats can be used to transmit a given image.  Different file formats require different number of bits for representing the same image at given distortion level, and some are better suited for representing certain classes of images than others.  According to this model, the brain is thought to use a code which is suited for representing visual and audio information representative of an organism's natural environment .

Efficient coding and information theory 

The development of the Barlow's hypothesis was influenced by information theory introduced by Claude Shannon only a decade before.  Information theory provides the mathematical framework for analyzing communication systems.  It formally defines concepts such as information, channel capacity, and redundancy.  Barlow's model treats the sensory pathway as a communication channel where neuronal spiking is an efficient code for representing sensory signals.  The spiking code aims to maximize available channel capacity by minimizing the redundancy between representational units. H. Barlow was not the very first one to introduce the idea: it already appears in a 1954 article written by F. Attneave.

A key prediction of the efficient coding hypothesis is that sensory processing in the brain should be adapted to natural stimuli. Neurons in the visual (or auditory) system should be optimized for coding images (or sounds) representative of those found in nature.  Researchers have shown that filters optimized for coding natural images lead to filters which resemble the receptive fields of simple-cells in V1.  In the auditory domain, optimizing a network for coding natural sounds leads to filters which resemble the impulse response of cochlear filters found in the inner ear.

Constraints on the visual system 

Due to constraints on the visual system such as the number of neurons and the metabolic energy required for "neural activities", the visual processing system must have an efficient strategy for transmitting as much information as possible. Information must be compressed as it travels from the retina back to the visual cortex. While the retinal receptors can receive information at 10^9 bit/s, the optic nerve, which is composed of 1 million ganglion cells transmitting at 1 bit/sec, only has a transmission capacity of 10^6 bit/s.  Further reduction occurs that limits the overall transmission to 40 bit/s which results in inattentional blindness.  Thus, the hypothesis states that neurons should encode information as efficiently as possible in order to maximize neural resources. For example, it has been shown that visual data can be compressed up to 20 fold without noticeable information loss.

Evidence suggests that our visual processing system engages in bottom-up selection. For example, inattentional blindness suggests that there must be data deletion early on in the visual pathway.  This bottom-up approach allows us to respond to unexpected and salient events more quickly and is often directed by attentional selection. This also gives our visual system the property of being goal-directed. Many have suggested that the visual system is able to work efficiently by breaking images down into distinct components. Additionally, it has been argued that the visual system takes advantage of redundancies in inputs in order to transmit as much information as possible while using the fewest resources.

Evolution-based neural system 

Simoncelli and Olshausen outline the three major concepts that are assumed to be involved in the development of  systems neuroscience:
 an organism has specific tasks to perform
 neurons have capabilities and limitations
 an organism is in a particular environment. 
One assumption used in testing the Efficient Coding Hypothesis is that neurons must be evolutionarily and developmentally adapted to the natural signals in their environment. The idea is that perceptual systems will be the quickest when responding to "environmental stimuli". The visual system should cut out any redundancies in the sensory input.

Natural images and statistics 
Central to Barlow's hypothesis is information theory, which when applied to neuroscience, argues that an efficiently coding neural system "should match the statistics of the signals they represent". Therefore, it is important to be able to determine the statistics of the natural images that are producing these signals. Researchers have looked at various components of natural images including luminance contrast, color, and how images are registered over time. They can analyze the properties of natural scenes via digital cameras, spectrophotometers, and range finders.

Researchers look at how luminance contrasts are spatially distributed in an image: the luminance contrasts are highly correlated the closer they are in measurable distance and less correlated the farther apart the pixels are. Independent component analysis (ICA) is an algorithm system that attempts to "linearly transform given (sensory) inputs into independent outputs (synaptic currents) ". ICA eliminates the redundancy by decorrelating the pixels in a natural image. Thus the individual components that make up the natural image are rendered statistically independent. However, researchers have thought that ICA is limited because it assumes that the neural response is linear, and therefore insufficiently describes the complexity of natural images. They argue that, despite what is assumed under ICA, the components of the natural image have a "higher-order structure" that involves correlations among components. Instead, researchers have now developed temporal independent component analysis (TICA), which better represents the complex correlations that occur between components in a natural image. Additionally, a "hierarchical covariance model" developed by Karklin and Lewicki expands on sparse coding methods and can represent additional components of natural images such as "object location, scale, and texture".

The chromatic spectra as it comes from natural light, but also as it is reflected off of "natural materials" can be easily characterized with principal components analysis (PCA).  Because the cones are absorbing a specific amount of photons from the natural image, researchers can use cone responses as a way of describing the natural image. Researchers have found that the three classes of cone receptors in the retina can accurately code natural images and that color is decorrelated already in the LGN. Time has also been modeled: natural images transform over time, and we can use these transformations to see how the visual input changes over time.

A padegogical review of efficient coding in visual processing --- efficient spatial coding, color coding, temporal/motion coding,  stereo coding, and the combination of them --- is in chapter 3 of the book "Understanding vision: theory, models, and data". It explains how efficient coding is realized when input noise makes redundancy reduction no longer adequate, and how efficient coding in different situations are related to each other or different from each other.

Hypotheses for testing the efficient coding hypothesis 

If neurons are encoding according to the efficient coding hypothesis then individual neurons must be expressing their full output capacity. Before testing this hypothesis it is necessary to define what is considered to be a neural response. Simoncelli and Olshausen suggest that an efficient neuron needs to be given a maximal response value so that we can measure if a neuron is efficiently meeting the maximum level. Secondly, a population of neurons must not be redundant in transmitting signals and must be statistically independent. If the efficient coding hypothesis is accurate, researchers should observe is that there is sparsity in the neuron responses: that is, only a few neurons at a time should fire for an input.

Methodological approaches for testing the hypotheses 

One approach is to design a model for early sensory processing based on the statistics of a natural image and then compare this predicted model to how real neurons actually respond to the natural image. 
The second approach is to measure a neural system responding to a natural environme