# Oscorp

Oscorp (sometimes stylized as OsCorp), also known as Oscorp Industries, is a fictional multibillion-dollar multinational corporation appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics, predominantly in stories about Spider-Man. The company was founded by Norman Osborn and has appeared in numerous media adaptations. It first appeared in The Amazing Spider-Man #37 (March, 1966) and was created by Stan Lee and Steve Ditko.

According to Forbes, highlighting the 25 largest fictional companies, Oscorp has an estimated sales of $3.1 billion, ranking it at number 23.

History
The corporation is based out of the Oscorp Tower in New York. It was created and run by its CEO Norman Osborn. Norman studied chemistry and electrical engineering in college. He also took a number of courses in business administration. Norman's teacher, Professor Mendel Stromm, formed the business partnership. Since Norman put up the bulk of the financing, they called their company the Osborn Corporation, or Oscorp.

Stromm's early research was on a chemical that would provide enhanced strength in its test subjects and would eventually turn Osborn into the Green Goblin. Osborn, wanting the formula for himself, discovered that Stromm had been embezzling funds from Oscorp. Stromm explained that he was merely borrowing but Osborn turned him over to the police. After several years in prison, Stromm was released and tried to kill Osborn for revenge using evil robots. He was stopped by the superhero Spider-Man and seemingly died of a heart attack when he was nearly shot.

Jay Allan's company "Allan Chemical" was merged with Normie Osborn's stocks from Oscorp and the last remaining properties of Horizon Labs after its destruction, establishing it under the new name of "Alchemax".

It was later revealed that Norman Osborn under the guise of "Mason Banks" created the corporation in order to leave a strong empire for his grandson and establish an empire for the Osborn legacy. Their headquarters Oscorp Tower was the former headquarters of Oscorp.

By 2099, Alchemax would eventually control most aspects of daily life in a possible future.

Fictional staff members

Current
 Norman Osborn - The Founder and CEO of Oscorp.

Former
 Arthur Stacy - The Chief of Security at Oscorp who is the brother of George Stacy and the uncle of ....
 Charles Standish - The Senior Vice-President of Oscorp. Charles Standish was kidnapped by the Flaming Sword, but he was eventually rescued by the Avengers.
 Donald Menken - The personal assistant of Norman Osborn.
 Dr. David Patrick Lowell - A scientist who became Sundown upon being drenched in his chemicals that was similar to the Goblin Formula.
 Dr. Malek - A scientist who was part of the research team that was experimenting on Freak.
 Dr. Nels van Adder - A research scientist whose formula turned him into the Proto-Goblin.
 Dr. David Lowell - He developed the Photogenesis Project for Oscorp, and discovered a way to give a human superpowers through photosynthesis.
 Harry Osborn - Norman's son who for a time served as CEO.
 Mendel Stromm - Former partner of Norman Osborn.
 Mark Raxton - Former Head of Security.

Other versions

Ultimate Marvel
In the Ultimate Marvel universe, Oscorp is much the same as in the Earth-616 version. The company is owned and operated by Norman Osborn who developed the Oz super soldier serum and the spiders who were behind the abilities of Peter Parker, and later Miles Morales. After an incident in which Osborn injected himself with Oz serum and became the Green Goblin, a big portion of the main building was left in ruins, and numerous scientists died or transitioned to other companies like Roxxon in the case of Conrad Marcus. Osborn Industries had been mentioned to still produce technologies.

In other media

Television
 Oscorp was featured in Spider-Man: The Animated Series. Norman Osborn hires Spencer Smythe to create a weapon to destroy Spider-Man by creating the Spider-Slayer. The deal made with Osborn meant that Norman would build a hoverchair for Spencer's paralyzed son, Alistair. The Slayer unintentionally captured Flash Thompson dressed as Spider-Man, and the real Spider-Man came to his rescue. This led to a large scale fire in the Oscorp plant. Norman Osborn quoted to Spencer "Remember our deal. No Spider-Splat, No Hoverchair." Spencer chose to stay behind and finish Spider-Man off while Norman got Alistair to safety. After the Spider-Slayer was destroyed by Spider-Man, Oscorp exploded and Spencer supposedly perished. However, Spencer had survived, having been found by the Kingpin. Norman invented the technology which would create the Hobgoblin and hired him to assassinate Kingpin. The assassination was foiled by Peter Parker and the Kingpin suspected a conspiracy against him. Norman subsequently fired the Hobgoblin, who allied with Kingpin and kidnapped Norman's son Harry. When the Kingpin refused to pay Hobgoblin immediately, they ceased their partnership. Following this, Osborn sold 50% of his company to the Kingpin in order to repay his debt. Norman and his partner Wardell Stromm were forced into creating chemical weapons for the Kingpin. An unstable reaction resulted during one experiment and Norman seemed to have perished in the explosion. However, Norman had survived the explosion, his strength enhanced by the gas from the explosion, and this combined with the Hobgoblin weapons created the Green Goblin. He then began kidnapping the Oscorp stockholders including Board members J. Jonah Jameson, Kingpin and Anastasia Hardy (mother of Felicia Hardy), although Spider-Man uncovered an underwater base where the Goblin intended to kill them. Fighting the Goblin, Spider-Man unmasked him. Amnesia ensued and Norman was unable to remember his dual identity. The following morning, Norman publicly announced that Oscorp would no longer be involved in the creation of chemical weapons, and allowing Harry to be brought on board.
 Oscorp is briefly featured in Spider-Man: The New Animated Series. In the episode "Heroes and Villains", Oscorp board of directors are convincing Empire State University to destroy one of its housing developments, Villaroy Towers, which prompts the arrival of a new vigilante Turbo Jet (secretly former NASA engineer Louis Wyler). In "Law of the Jungle", the vengeful Curt Connors in his Lizard state attacks Oscorp Tower and almost killed Harry if not for Spider-Man. It's revealed Curt lost his right arm due to testing a weapon: Wide Area Explosive Fragmentation Round (WAFER) and tried to sue the company but the case was thrown out. In "When Sparks Fly", a returning Electro is stopped by Spider-Man using an Oscorp High Voltage Storage container.
 Oscorp is featured in The Spectacular Spider-Man. Oscorp is the leading chemical manufacturing firm (which also had research divisions that dealt in other areas) that is based in New York City and was founded and owned by the ruthless businessman, inventor, and gifted chemist named Norman Osborn. At some point, Norman came across a chemical formula with the intention of using it to increase a person's intelligence and physical strength. Osborn tried to recreate the chemical (secretly) and used small doses of it. The formula indeed increased his intelligence and strength, but it also drove him insane. He created a Halloween-like costume for himself which he colored green after the solution and named himself the "Green Goblin" for which his major objective was to become the reigning crime boss in New York and to kill Spider-Man.
 Oscorp is featured in the Ultimate Spider-Man animated series. Similar to the Ultimate Marvel reality, Norman contacted Dr. Otto Octavius to capture Spider-Man and told his plan to create super soldiers from his DNA. Octavius hired the Frightful Four to do the job. Later that day Octavius got a message from Wizard that they found the vigilante. The next day when the Frightful Four were defeated, Norman chided Octavius, which the latter promised not to fail him again. Doctor Octopus later sends out an Octobot to acquire a sample of Spider-Man, the tiny Octobot came back with it and he created the Venom symbiote out of the sample. Norman ordered him to make of it in one day. Later, when Norman came back from his home, the vicinity was destroyed by Venom who escaped and searched for Spider-Man. After Venom was supposedly destroyed, Norman congratulated Octavius for the success and ordered him to make an advanced prototype of it. Doctor Octopus hired Taskmaster to capture Spider-Man. After Taskmaster returned from a failed mission, Octavius went into a rage and destroyed his facility, while Taskmaster decided to take revenge on Spider-Man.
 In the Avengers Assemble animated series, an Oscorp building is seen in the episode "Dark Avengers".
 Oscorp appears in Marvel's Spider-Man. It had a containment breach where some experimental spiders the company was working were on let loose in the facility; one spider went on to bite Midto