# Hayashi track

The Hayashi track is a luminosity–temperature relationship obeyed by infant stars of less than  in the pre-main-sequence phase (PMS phase) of stellar evolution. It is named after Japanese astrophysicist Chushiro Hayashi. On the Hertzsprung–Russell diagram, which plots luminosity against temperature, the track is a nearly vertical curve. After a protostar ends its phase of rapid contraction and becomes a T Tauri star, it is extremely luminous. The star continues to contract, but much more slowly.  While slowly contracting, the star follows the Hayashi track downwards, becoming several times less luminous but staying at roughly the same surface temperature, until either a radiative zone develops, at which point the star starts following the Henyey track, or nuclear fusion begins, marking its entry onto the main sequence.

The shape and position of the Hayashi track on the Hertzsprung–Russell diagram depends on the star's mass and chemical composition. For solar-mass stars, the track lies at a temperature of roughly 4000 K. Stars on the track are nearly fully convective and have their opacity dominated by hydrogen ions. Stars less than  are fully convective even on the main sequence, but their opacity begins to be dominated by Kramers' opacity law after nuclear fusion begins, thus moving them off the Hayashi track. Stars between 0.5 and  develop a radiative
zone prior to reaching the main sequence. Stars between 3 and  are fully radiative at the beginning of the pre-main-sequence. Even heavier stars are born onto the main sequence, with no PMS evolution.

At an end of a low- or intermediate-mass star's life, the star follows an analogue of the Hayashi track, but in reverse—it increases in luminosity, expands, and stays at roughly the same temperature, eventually becoming a red giant.

History
In 1961, Professor Chushiro Hayashi published two papers that led to the concept of the pre-main-sequence and form the basis of the modern understanding of early stellar evolution. Hayashi realized that the existing model, in which stars are assumed to be in radiative equilibrium with no substantial convection zone, cannot explain the shape of the red-giant branch.  He therefore replaced the model by including the effects of thick convection zones on a star's interior.

A few years prior, Osterbrock proposed deep convection zones with efficient convection, analyzing them using the opacity of H- ions (the dominant opacity source in cool atmospheres) in temperatures below 5000K.  However, the earliest numerical models of Sun-like stars did not follow up on this work and continued to assume radiative equilibrium.

In his 1961 papers, Hayashi showed that the convective envelope of a star is determined by:

where E is unitless, and not the energy.  Modelling stars as polytropes with index 3/2—in other words, assuming they follow a pressure-density relationship of —he found that E=45 is the maximum for a quasistatic star.  If a star is not contracting rapidly, E=45 defines a curve on the HR diagram, to the right of which the star cannot exist.  He then computed the evolutionary tracks and isochrones (luminosity-temperature distributions of stars at a given age) for a variety of stellar masses and noted that NGC2264, a very young star cluster, fits the isochrones well.  In particular, he calculated much lower ages for solar-type stars in NGC2264 and predicted that these stars were rapidly contracting T Tauri stars.

In 1962, Hayashi published a 183-page review of stellar evolution.  Here, he discussed the evolution of stars born in the forbidden region.  These stars rapidly contract due to gravity before settling to a quasistatic, fully convective state on the Hayashi tracks.

In 1965, numerical models by Iben and Ezer & Cameron realistically simulated pre-main-sequence evolution, including the Henyey track that stars follow after leaving the Hayashi track.  These standard PMS tracks can still be found in textbooks on stellar evolution.

Forbidden zone

The forbidden zone is the region on the HR diagram to the right of the Hayashi track where no star can be in hydrostatic equilibrium, even those that are partially or fully radiative.  Newborn protostars start out in this zone, but are not in hydrostatic equilibrium and will rapidly move towards the Hayashi track.

Because stars emit light via black-body radiation, the power per unit surface area they emit is given by the Stefan–Boltzmann law:

The star's luminosity is therefore given by:

For a given L, a lower temperature implies a larger radius, and vice versa. Thus, the Hayashi track separates the HR diagram into two regions: the allowed region to the left, with high temperatures and smaller radii for each luminosity, and the forbidden region to the right, with lower temperatures and correspondingly higher radii.  The Hayashi limit can refer to either the lower bound in temperature or the upper bound on radius defined by the Hayashi track.

The region to the right is forbidden because it can be shown that a star in the region must have a temperature gradient of:

where  for a monatomic ideal gas undergoing adiabatic expansion or contraction.  A temperature gradient greater than 0.4 is therefore called superadiabatic.

Consider a star with a superadiabatic gradient.  Imagine a parcel of gas that starts at radial position r, but moves upwards to r+dr in a sufficiently short time that it exchanges negligible heat with its surroundings—in other words, the process is adiabatic.  The pressure of the surroundings, as well as that of the parcel, decreases by some amount dP.  The parcel's temperature changes by .  The temperature of the surroundings also decreases, but by some amount dT' that is greater than dT.  The parcel therefore ends up being hotter than its surroundings.  Since the ideal gas law can be written , a higher temperature implies a lower density at the same pressure.  The parcel is therefore also less dense than its surroundings.  This will cause it to rise even more, and the parcel will become even less dense than its new surroundings.

Clearly, this situation is not stable.  In fact, a superadiabatic gradient causes convection.  Convection tends to lower the temperature gradient because the rising parcel of gas will eventually be dispersed, dumping its excess thermal and kinetic energy into its surroundings and heating up said surroundings.  In stars, the convection process is known to be highly efficient, with a typical  that only exceeds the adiabatic gradient by 1 part in 10 million.

If a star is placed in the forbidden zone, with a temperature gradient much greater than 0.4, it will experience rapid convection that brings the gradient down.  Since this convection will drastically change the star's pressure and temperature distribution, the star is not in hydrostatic equilibrium, and will contract until it is.

A star far to the left of the Hayashi track has a temperature gradient smaller than adiabatic. This means that if a parcel of gas rises a tiny bit, it will be more dense than its surroundings and sink back to where it came from. Convection therefore does not occur, and almost all energy output is carried radiatively.

Star formation
Stars form when small regions of a giant molecular cloud collapse under their own gravity, becoming protostars. The collapse releases gravitational energy, which heats up the protostar.  This process occurs on the free fall timescale , which is roughly 100,000 years for solar-mass protostars, and ends when the protostar reaches approximately 4000 K.  This is known as the Hayashi boundary, and at this point, the protostar is on the Hayashi track.  At this point, they are known as T Tauri stars and continue to contract, but much more slowly.  As they contract, they decrease in luminosity because less surface area becomes available for emitting light. The Hayashi track gives the resulting change in temperature, which will be minimal compared to the change in luminosity because the Hayashi track is nearly vertical.  In other words, on the HR diagram, a T Tauri star starts out on the Hayashi track with a high luminosity and moves downward along the track as time passes.

The Hayashi track describes a fully convective star.  This is a good approximation for very young pre-main-sequence stars they are still cool and highly opaque, so that radiative transport is insufficient to carry away the generated energy and convection must occur.  Stars less massive than  remain fully convective, and therefore remain on the Hayashi track, throughout their pre-main-sequence stage, joining the main sequence at the bottom of the Hayashi track. Stars heavier than  have higher interior temperatures, which decreases their central opacity and allows radiation to carry away large amounts of energy.  This allows a radiative zone to develop around the star's core. The star is then no longer on the Hayashi track, and experiences a period of rapidly increasing temperature at nea