[The Origin of Species — Darwin — Gutenberg #2009]

early stage. BALANUS.—The genus including the common Acorn-shells which live in abundance on the rocks of the sea-coast. BATRACHIANS.—A class of animals allied to the Reptiles, but undergoing a peculiar metamorphosis, in which the young animal is generally aquatic and breathes by gills. (_Examples_, Frogs, Toads, and Newts.) BOULDERS.—Large transported blocks of stone generally embedded in clays or gravels. BRACHIOPODA.—A class of marine Mollusca, or soft-bodied animals, furnished with a bivalve shell, attached to submarine objects by a stalk which passes through an aperture in one of the valves, and furnished with fringed arms, by the action of which food is carried to the mouth. BRANCHIÆ.—Gills or organs for respiration in water. BRANCHIAL.—Pertaining to gills or branchiæ. CAMBRIAN SYSTEM.—A series of very ancient Palæozoic rocks, between the Laurentian and the Silurian. Until recently these were regarded as the oldest fossiliferous rocks. CANIDÆ.—The Dog-family, including the Dog, Wolf, Fox, Jackal, &c. CARAPACE.—The shell enveloping the anterior part of the body in Crustaceans generally; applied also to the hard shelly pieces of the Cirripedes. CARBONIFEROUS.—This term is applied to the great formation which includes, among other rocks, the coal-measures. It belongs to the oldest, or Palæozoic, system of formations. CAUDAL.—Of or belonging to the tail. CEPHALOPODS.—The highest class of the Mollusca, or soft-bodied animals, characterised by having the mouth surrounded by a greater or less number of fleshy arms or tentacles, which, in most living species, are furnished with sucking-cups. (_Examples_, Cuttle-fish, Nautilus.) CETACEA.—An order of Mammalia, including the Whales, Dolphins, &c., having the form of the body fish-like, the skin naked, and only the fore limbs developed. CHELONIA.—An order of Reptiles including the Turtles, Tortoises, &c. CIRRIPEDES.—An order of Crustaceans including the Barnacles and Acorn-shells. Their young resemble those of many other Crustaceans in form; but when mature they are always attached to other objects, either directly or by means of a stalk, and their bodies are enclosed by a calcareous shell composed of several pieces, two of which can open to give issue to a bunch of curled, jointed tentacles, which represent the limbs. COCCUS.—The genus of Insects including the Cochineal. In these the male is a minute, winged fly, and the female generally a motionless, berry-like mass. COCOON.—A case usually of silky material, in which insects are frequently enveloped during the second or resting-stage (pupa) of their existence. The term “cocoon-stage” is here used as equivalent to “pupa-stage.” CŒLOSPERMOUS.—A term applied to those fruits of the Umbelliferæ which have the seed hollowed on the inner face. COLEOPTERA.—Beetles, an order of Insects, having a biting mouth and the first pair of wings more or less horny, forming sheaths for the second pair, and usually meeting in a straight line down the middle of the back. COLUMN.—A peculiar organ in the flowers of Orchids, in which the stamens, style and stigma (or the reproductive parts) are united. COMPOSITÆ or COMPOSITOUS PLANTS.—Plants in which the inflorescence consists of numerous small flowers (florets) brought together into a dense head, the base of which is enclosed by a common envelope. (_Examples_, the Daisy, Dandelion, &c.) CONFERVÆ.—The filamentous weeds of fresh water. CONGLOMERATE.—A rock made up of fragments of rock or pebbles, cemented together by some other material. COROLLA.—The second envelope of a flower usually composed of coloured, leaf-like organs (petals), which may be united by their edges either in the basal part or throughout. CORRELATION.—The normal coincidence of one phenomenon, character, &c., with another. CORYMB.—A bunch of flowers in which those springing from the lower part of the flower stalks are supported on long stalks so as to be nearly on a level with the upper ones. COTYLEDONS.—The first or seed-leaves of plants. CRUSTACEANS.—A class of articulated animals, having the skin of the body generally more or less hardened by the deposition of calcareous matter, breathing by means of gills. (_Examples_, Crab, Lobster, Shrimp, &c.) CURCULIO.—The old generic term for the Beetles known as Weevils, characterised by their four-jointed feet, and by the head being produced into a sort of beak, upon the sides of which the antennæ are inserted. CUTANEOUS.—Of or belonging to the skin. DEGRADATION.—The wearing down of land by the action of the sea or of meteoric agencies. DENUDATION.—The wearing away of the surface of the land by water. DEVONIAN SYSTEM or FORMATION.—A series of Palæozoic rocks, including the Old Red Sandstone. DICOTYLEDONS, or DICOTYLEDONOUS PLANTS.—A class of plants characterised by having two seed-leaves, by the formation of new wood between the bark and the old wood (exogenous growth) and by the reticulation of the veins of the leaves. The parts of the flowers are generally in multiples of five. DIFFERENTATION.—The separation or discrimination of parts or organs which in simpler forms of life are more or less united. DIMORPHIC.—Having two distinct forms.—DIMORPHISM is the condition of the appearance of the same species under two dissimilar forms. DIOECIOUS.—Having the organs of the sexes upon distinct individuals. DIORITE.—A peculiar form of Greenstone. DORSAL.—Of or belonging to the back. EDENTATA.—A peculiar order of Quadrupeds, characterised by the absence of at least the middle incisor (front) teeth in both jaws. (_Examples_, the Sloths and Armadillos.) ELYTRA.—The hardened fore-wings of Beetles, serving as sheaths for the membranous hind-wings, which constitute the true organs of flight. EMBRYO.—The young animal undergoing development within the egg or womb. EMBRYOLOGY.—The study of the development of the embryo. ENDEMIC.—Peculiar to a given locality. ENTOMOSTRACA.—A division of the class Crustacea, having all the segments of the body usually distinct, gills attached to the feet or organs of the mouth, and the feet fringed with fine hairs. They are generally of small size. EOCENE.—The earliest of the three divisions of the Tertiary epoch of geologists. Rocks of this age contain a small proportion of shells identical with species now living. EPHEMEROUS INSECTS.—Insects allied to the May-fly. FAUNA.—The totality of the animals naturally inhabiting a certain country or region, or which have lived during a given geological period. FELIDÆ.—The Cat-family. FERAL.—Having become wild from a state of cultivation or domestication. FLORA.—The totality of the plants growing naturally in a country, or during a given geological period. FLORETS.—Flowers imperfectly developed in some respects, and collected into a dense spike or head, as in the Grasses, the Dandelion, &c. FOETAL.—Of or belonging to the foetus, or embryo in course of development. FORAMINIFERA.—A class of animals of very low organisation and generally of small size, having a jelly-like body, from the surface of which delicate filaments can be given off and retracted for the prehension of external objects, and having a calcareous or sandy shell, usually divided into chambers and perforated with small apertures. FOSSILIFEROUS.—Containing fossils. FOSSORIAL.—Having a faculty of digging. The Fossorial Hymenoptera are a group of Wasp-like Insects, which burrow in sandy soil to make nests for their young. FRENUM (pl. FRENA).—A small band or fold of skin. FUNGI (sing. FUNGUS).—A class of cellular plants, of which Mushrooms, Toadstools, and Moulds, are familiar examples. FURCULA.—The forked bone formed by the union of the collar-bones in many birds, such as the common Fowl. GALLINACEOUS BIRDS.—An order of birds of which the common Fowl, Turkey, and Pheasant, are well-known examples. GALLUS.—The genus of birds which includes the common Fowl. GANGLION.—A swelling or knot from which nerves are given off as from a centre. GANOID FISHES.—Fishes covered with peculiar enamelled bony scales. Most of them are extinct. GERMINAL VESICLE.—A minute vesicle in the eggs of animals, from which the development of the embryo proceeds. GLACIAL PERIOD.—A period of great cold and of enormous extension of ice upon the surface of the earth. It is believed that glacial periods have occurred repeatedly during the geological history of the earth, but the term is generally applied to the close of the Tertiary epoch, when nearly the whole of Europe was subjected to an arctic climate. GLAND.—An organ which secretes or separates some peculiar product from the blood or sap of animals or plants. GLOTTIS.—The opening of the windpipe into the œsophagus or gullet. GNEISS.—A rock approaching granite in composition, but more or less laminated, and really produced by the alteration of a sedimentary deposit after its consolidation. GRALLATORES.—The so-called wading-birds (storks, cranes, snipes, &c.), which are generally furnished with long legs, bare of feathers above the heel, and have no membranes between the toes. GRANITE.—A rock consisting essentially of crystals of felspar and mica in a mass of quartz. HABITAT.—The locality in which a plant or animal naturally lives. HEMIPTERA.—An order or sub-order of insects, characterised by the possession of a jointed beak or rostrum, and by having the fore-wings horny in the basal portion and membranous at the extremity, where they cross each other. This group includes the various species of bugs. HERMAPHRODITE.—Possessing the organs of both sexes. HOMOLOGY.—That relation between parts which results from their development from corresponding embryonic parts, either in different animals, as in the case of the arm of man, the fore-leg of a quadruped, and the wing of a bird; or in the same individual, as in the case of the fore and hind legs in quadrupeds, and the segments or rings and their appendages of which the body of a worm, a centipede, &c., is composed. The latter is called _serial homology_. The parts which stand in such a relation to each other are said to be _homologous_, and one such part or organ is called the _homologue_ of the other. In different plants the parts of the flower are homologous, and in general these parts are regarded as homologous with leaves. HOMOPTERA.—An order or sub-order of insects having (like the Hemiptera) a jointed beak, but in which the fore-wings are either wholly membranous or wholly leathery, The _Cicadæ_, frog-hoppers, and _Aphides_, are well-known examples. HYBRID.—The offspring of the union of two distinct species. HYMENOPTERA.—An order of insects possessing biting jaws and usually four membranous wings in which there are a few veins. Bees and wasps are familiar examples of this group. HYPERTROPHIED.—Excessively developed. ICHNEUMONIDÆ.—A family of hymenopterous insects, the members of which lay their eggs in the bodies or eggs of other insects. IMAGO.—The perfect (generally winged) reproductive state of an insect. INDIGENES.—The aboriginal animal or vegetable inhabitants of a country or region. INFLORESCENCE.—The mode of arrangement of the flowers of plants. INFUSORIA.—A class of microscopic animalcules, so called from their having originally been observed in infusions of vegetable matters. They consist of a gelatinous material enclosed in a delicate membrane, the whole or part of which is furnished with short vibrating hairs (called cilia), by means of which the animalcules swim through the water or convey the minute particles of their food to the orifice of the mouth. INSECTIVOROUS.—Feeding on insects. INVERTEBRATA, or INVERTEBRATE ANIMALS.—Those animals which do not possess a backbone or spinal column. LACUNÆ.—Spaces left among the tissues in some of the lower animals and serving in place