# Aquatic mammal

Aquatic and semiaquatic mammals are a diverse group of mammals that dwell partly or entirely in bodies of water. They include the various marine mammals who dwell in oceans, as well as various freshwater species, such as the European otter. They are not a taxon and are not unified by any distinct biological grouping, but rather their dependence on and integral relation to aquatic ecosystems. The level of dependence on aquatic life varies greatly among species. Among freshwater taxa, the Amazonian manatee and river dolphins are completely aquatic and fully dependent on aquatic ecosystems. Semiaquatic freshwater taxa include the Baikal seal, which feeds underwater but rests, molts, and breeds on land; and the capybara and hippopotamus which are able to venture in and out of water in search of food.

Mammal adaptation to an aquatic lifestyle vary considerably between species. River dolphins and manatees are both fully aquatic and therefore are completely tethered to a life in the water. Seals are semiaquatic; they spend the majority of their time in the water, but need to return to land for important activities such as mating, breeding and molting. In contrast, many other aquatic mammals, such as hippopotamus, capybara, and water shrews, are much less adapted to aquatic living. Likewise, their diet ranges considerably as well, anywhere from aquatic plants and leaves to small fish and crustaceans. They play major roles in maintaining aquatic ecosystems, beavers especially.

Aquatic mammals were the target for commercial industry, leading to a sharp decline in all populations of exploited species, such as beavers. Their pelts, suited for conserving heat, were taken during the fur trade and made into coats and hats. Other aquatic mammals, such as the Indian rhinoceros, were targets for sport hunting and had a sharp population decline in the 1900s. After it was made illegal, many aquatic mammals became subject to poaching. Other than hunting, aquatic mammals can be killed as bycatch from fisheries, where they become entangled in fixed netting and drown or starve. Increased river traffic, most notably in the Yangtze river, causes collisions between fast ocean vessels and aquatic mammals, and damming of rivers may land migratory aquatic mammals in unsuitable areas or destroy habitat upstream. The industrialization of rivers led to the extinction of the Chinese river dolphin, with the last confirmed sighting in 2004.

Taxonomy and evolution

Groups
 This list covers only mammals that live in freshwater. For a list of saltwater mammals, see Marine mammal.
 Order Sirenia: sirenians
 Family Trichechidae: manatees
Amazonian manatee (Trichechus inunguis)
African manatee (Trichechus senegalensis)
 Order Cetartiodactyla: even-toed ungulates
Suborder Whippomorpha
Family Platanistidae
Ganges river dolphin, or susu (Platanista gangetica)
Indus river dolphin, or bhulan (Platanista minor)
Family Iniidae
Amazon river dolphin, or boto (Inia geoffrensis)
Araguaian river dolphin (Inia araguaiaensis)
Family Lipotidae
Chinese river dolphin, or baiji (Lipotes vexillifer) possibly extinct
Family Pontoporiidae
La Plata dolphin, or franciscana (Pontoporia blainvillei)
Family Hippopotamidae: hippopotamuses
Hippopotamus (Hippopotamus amphibius)
Pygmy hippopotamus (Choeropsis liberiensis)
 Order Carnivora
 Family Mustelidae
 Subfamily Lutrinae
Eurasian otter (Lutra lutra)
Hairy-nosed otter (Lutra sumatrana)
Spotted-necked otter (Hydrictis maculicollis)
Smooth-coated otter (Lutrogale perspicillata)
North American river otter (Lontra canadensis)
Southern river otter (Lontra provocax)
Neotropical river otter (Lontra longicaudis)
Giant otter (Pteronura brasiliensis)
African clawless otter (Aonyx capensis)
Oriental small-clawed otter (Aonyx cinerea)
 Subfamily Mustelinae
European mink (Mustela lutreola)
American mink (Neogale vison)
 Family Phocidae
Genus Pusa 
Baikal seal (Pusa sibirica)
Ladoga seal (Pusa hispida ladogensis)
Saimaa seal (Pusa hispida saimensis)
Order Rodentia: rodents
Suborder Hystricomorpha
Capybara (Hydrochoerus hydrochaeris)
Lesser capybara (Hydrochoerus isthmius)
Coypu (Myocastor coypus)
Family Castoridae: beavers
North American beaver (Castor canadensis)
Eurasian beaver (Castor fiber)
Family Cricetidae
Muskrat (Ondatra zibethicus)
European water vole (Arvicola amphibius)
 Order Monotremata: monotremes
Platypus (Ornithorhynchus anatinus)
 Order Afrosoricida
 Giant otter shrew (Potamogale velox)
 Order Eulipotyphla
Family Soricidae: shrews
Malayan water shrew (Chimarrogale hantu)
Himalayan water shrew (Chimarrogale himalayica)
Sunda water shrew (Chimarrogale phaeura)
Japanese water shrew (Chimarrogale platycephala)
Chinese water shrew (Chimarrogale styani)
Sumatran water shrew (Chimarrogale sumatrana)
Elegant water shrew (Nectogale elegans)
Mediterranean water shrew (Neomys anomalus)
Eurasian water shrew (Neomoys fodiens)
Transcaucasian water shrew (Neomys teres)
Glacier Bay water shrew (Sorex alaskanus)
American water shrew (Sorex palustris)
Pacific water shrew, or marsh shrew (Sorex bendirii)
Family Talpidae (moles and relatives)
 Russian desman (Desmana moschata)
 Order Didelphimorphia: opossums
Family Didelphidae: opossums
Big lutrine opossum (Lutreolina crassicaudata)
Massoia's lutrine opossum (Lutreolina massoia)
Yapok (Chironectes minimus)

Evolution

Mesozoic

One of the first known proto-mammals similar to modern placentals was aquatic, the Jurassic mammaliaform Castorocauda. It seems to have been adapted to water much like a beaver, with teeth different in many ways from all other docodonts, presumably due to a difference in diet. Most docodonts had teeth specialized for an omnivorous diet. The teeth of Castorocauda suggest that the animal was a piscivore, feeding on fish and small invertebrates. The first two molars had cusps in a straight row, eliminating the grinding function suggesting that they were strictly for gripping and not for chewing. This feature of three cusps in a row is similar to the ancestral condition in mammal relatives (as seen in triconodonts), but is almost certainly a derived character in Castorocauda. These first molars were also recurved in a manner adapted to hold slippery prey once grasped. These teeth are very similar to the teeth seen in mesonychians, an extinct group of semiaquatic carnivorous ungulates, and resemble, to a lesser degree, the teeth of seals.

Another docodontan, the Late Jurassic Haldanodon, has been suggested to be a platypus or desman-like swimmer and burrower, being well adapted to dig and swim and occurring in a wetland environment.

The tritylodontid Kayentatherium has been suggested to be semiaquatic. Unlike Castorocauda and Haldanodon, it was an herbivore, being probably beaver or capybara-like in habits.

Another lineage of Mesozoic mammals, the eutriconodonts, have been suggested to be aquatic animals with mixed results. Astroconodon occurred abundantly in freshwater lacustrine deposits and its molars were originally interpreted as being similar to those of piscivorous mammals like cetaceans and pinnipeds; by extension some researchers considered the possibility that all eutriconodonts were aquatic piscivores. However, Zofia Kielan-Jaworowska and other researchers have latter found that the triconodont molars of eutriconodonts were more suited for a carnassial-like shearing action than the piercing and gripping function of piscivorous mammal molars, occluding instead of interlocking, and that Astroconodon'''s aquatic occurrences may be of little significance when most terrestrial tetrapod fossils are found in lacustrine environments anyway.

However, two other eutriconodonts, Dyskritodon and Ichthyoconodon, occur in marine deposits with virtually no dental erosion, implying that they died in situ and are thus truly aquatic mammals. Nonetheless, Ichthyoconodon may not be aquatic, but instead a gliding mammal. More recently, Yanoconodon and Liaoconodon have been interpreted as semiaquatic, bearing a long body and paddle-like limbs.

A metatherian, the stagodontid Didelphodon, has been suggested to be aquatic, due to molar and skeleton similarities to sea otters.

Cenozoic

An extinct genus, Satherium, is believed to be ancestral to South American river otters, having migrated to the New World during the Pliocene or early Pleistocene. The South American continent houses the otter genus Lontra: the giant otter, the neotropical river otter, the southern river otter, and the marine otter. The smooth-coated otter (Lutrogale perspicillata) of Asia may be its closest extant relative; similar behaviour, vocalizations, and skull morphology have been noted.

The most popular theory of the origins of Hippopotamidae suggests that hippos and whales shared a common ancestor that branched off from other artiodactyls around 60 million years ago (mya). This hypothesized ancestral group likely split into two branches around 54 mya. One branch would evolve into cetaceans, possibly beginning about 52 mya