[The Physical Basis of Life — Huxley — Gutenberg #38262]

the deck of this ship stand Chisholm, Fred, and Frank, and beside them a smart naval officer in blue and gold and white. Yes, you have guessed right. Lyell was the first to greet them when the anchor rattled down into the shallow waters off Buenos Ayres. He had been appointed to a South American station, and here he was, looking as happy and jolly and red as ever. "And at present," said Lyell, "I am my own master; so for six weeks I'm at your service." There was little encouragement for stopping in this city of straight streets and tame houses, and heat and dust, so they jumped at Lyell's suggestion to get on land as soon as possible. Lyell knew some folks, he said, that would "show them a thing or two." A long journey first in a comfortless train, through a country as level and lonesome as mid-ocean itself. Hot! it was indeed hot, and they were glad when the sun went down; for the carriages in which they rode were over-upholstered, and the paint stood up in soft boiling blisters on the wood-work. Now the journey is changed to one by river. Not much of a boat, to be sure; but then it is comparatively cool, and the scenery is sylvan and delightful. On once more next day, this time by diligence. This conveyance had none of the comfort of the Hyde Park canoe-landau. It was just what Lyell called it in pardonable slang, "a rubbly old concern--a sort of breed betwixt an orange-box, a leathern portmanteau, and a venerable clothes-basket. They paid a hawser out from its bows, and bent the nags on to that." Frank thought of his elephant ride. But the country grew more hilly and romantic as they proceeded, and the inns, sad to say, worse and worse. Their beds were inhabited--strangely so; our heroes did not turn in to study natural history, or they might have done so. Indeed they had to rough it. The country grew wilder still; they had left the diligence with nearly broken bones; bought hones, hired guides, and now they found themselves on the very boundaries of a savage land. Ha! the fort at last, where Lyell's friends lived. Their welcome was a regal one. Half a dozen Scotchmen lived here, four of them married and with grown-up families--quite a little colony. They shook hands with Lyell a dozen times. "Oh, man!" they cried, "but you're welcome." Then they killed the fatted calf. These good people were farmers; their houses all rough, but well furnished; their flocks and herds numerous as the sands by the sea-shore. A wild, lonely kind of a life they led with their wives and their little ones, but they were content. There were fish in the streams and deer in the forest. You had but to tickle the earth with a toasting-fork, and it smilingly yielded up _pommes de terre_ which would grace the table of a prince. Every soul in the colony was a McSomebody or other; so no wonder Chisholm was in his glory, no wonder-- "The nicht drive on wi' sangs and clatter." When our heroes heard their principal host call out, "Send auld Lawrie McMillan here [his real name was Lorenzo Maximilian] to give us a tune," they had expected to see some tall old Highlander stride in with the bagpipes, not an ancient, wiry Spaniard, guitar-armed. Is it any wonder Chisholm burst out laughing when this venerable ghost began to sing-- "Come under my plaidie, the night's gaun to fa'." Well, getting such a welcome as this in the midst of a wilderness was enough to make our heroes forget all former hardships. The dinner was a banquet. There were many dishes that were new to them; but had Frank, who was fastidious as regards eating, known that _lagarto soup_ was made from the iguana lizard, a perfect dragon; that curried _potro_ was horse, and that _peludo_-pie was made of armadillo, I don't think he would have sent his plate twice for either. Frank trod on the tail of an iguana next day. The dragon, seven feet long, and fearful to behold, turned and snapped. Frank, armed with a stick, would not fly, but fought. The Scotchmen were delighted. They tossed their bonnets in the air, and shouted "Saint George for merrie England!" Never mind, they might laugh as they pleased; but Frank killed the dragon. Saint George, as Chisholm now dubbed him, quite won the affection of the llama hunters next day; he was the only one of our heroes who kept alongside the Indians in their furious gallop at the heels of the fleet pacos. [The _lama pacos_, hunted for its wool, chiefly used in rope and cloth-making.] All day long Frank was well to the fore, and how he was wishing he could throw the lassoo or bolas. Sweet Lizzie McDonald was the prettiest girl in the fort; she was the wildest huntress as well. She and her brothers "rigged out," as Lyell called it, young Frank in native dress; and he rode by her side to the hills next day, presumably in the capacity of cavalier, but really as pupil. And Frank was an apt pupil; he didn't think the time long. "Lucky dog you," said Lyell, "if I wasn't a sailor, I'd throw myself at Lizzie's feet. I wouldn't mind being lassooed by a girl like her. Heigho!" CHAPTER NINETEEN. CHASING WILD HORSES--OSTRICH-STALKING--A MOONLIGHT RIDE--A DEED OF BLOOD--LOS INDIOS!--THE FIGHT--VICTORY AND PURSUIT. Knowing, as we do, how good a horseman Frank was, it is almost needless to say that before he was one month in this country he was as handy with bolas or lassoo as one of the natives. The former he preferred: it quitted his hands like stone from a sling, next moment the llama or guanaco was down; there was no dragging, no cruelty. The battue he did not like. But chasing wild horses was quite another thing. This was a manly and a useful sport; the very hunted horses themselves seemed to like it, and used to stand in herds on heights sniffing the air, as much as to say, "catch me if you can, but I don't mean to be caught napping." Nor were they; and a chase of this kind was sometimes most exciting. The poor colts that were lassooed were broken in speedily enough, it must be allowed, but in a manner that was cruel in the extreme; but brutality to animals is the order of the day in the Pampas. The bullocks are treated horribly; so, too, are their dogs, and every animal that comes under the native's domination. The estancia, where our heroes dwelt, was about two hundred yards square; there was a fort at one end of it, surrounded by a strong wall covered with a ditch filled with water--the whole of the little village being near the river. In case of trouble with the Indians, all the colony could take refuge here, and draw up the bridge. The servants were Gauchos. On the arrival of Mr McDonald and his kinsmen, there had at first been many broils with Los Indios. These treacherous Indians are a flat-faced copper-hued race, with most forbidding countenances; and lying and thieving seem really to be part and parcel of their education. At all events, they are adepts at both. Chisholm wanted one day to go ostrich-stalking, or rhea-hunting you might better term it. These curious birds are as fleet as the wind, you cannot ride them down in the open; but you can approach them near enough with mules, to get a shot when fires are lit here and there on the plain, and the creatures get confused. It had been a long day's sport; and the moon had arisen, and was flooding all the beautiful country with its soft and mellow light, ere the party had got within two leagues of the estancia. But they knew the welcome that there awaited them, and so on they rode, slowly but cheerfully, singing as they went. There would have been less music at their hearts, had they seen the expression of mingled hate and cunning on the faces of those fiends behind the cactus bush. What were they lurking there for? Why did they not come boldly forth? Lizzie and her sister met them at the garden gate. They had been watching for the cavalcade for fully an hour, and were rejoiced when their song fell upon their listening ears. Everyone was extremely happy and lively that evening; and it was quite ten o'clock before any one thought of retiring. Silence at last fell on the estancia. Higher and higher rose the moon, flooding the land with light; there isn't a sound to be heard, save the buzz of insect, the call of wild drake, or the mournful cry of the owl. And the night wore on. It must have been considerably past midnight when suddenly from down the glade where the horses were grazing, there arose a shriek so piercing, so full of wild imploring grief, that it found a response in every heart in the estancia sleeping or awake. While they listened it was repeated only once, but this time it died away in a moan, that told the terrible tale that a deed of blood had been done. "Los Indios? Los Indios?" That was the shout from the Gaucho camp. "To arms, men, to arms!" roared patriarchal old McDonald, rushing sword in hand into our heroes' bed-chamber. There was bustle and hurry now, but no confusion. The women were got into the fort first, the men covering their retreat, and hardly was this effected ere there was a headlong rush of a dark cloud that swept upwards from the river's brink. "Fire, men!" cried McDonald. "Give it 'em." There was a rattling volley, and the cloud fell back with shouts and groans. In five minutes more every man was inside, and the drawbridge was up. Foiled in their attempt to seize and occupy the estancia by a surprise, the Indians, who were over a hundred strong, would hardly dare to attack the fort before morning. Nor did they seem to want to, but twice they made attempts to creep towards the houses, intent on plunder, but such a contingency as this had been well considered while building the fort, and those who now made the attempt bitterly repented their rashness the very next moment. The men in the fort were thirty in all; their rifles were twenty. Twenty rifles against a hundred spears, the odds were not so overwhelming; but those Indians are terribly cunning in their mode of warfare, as our heroes soon found out, for small balls of burning grass, thrown