[Heredity and Environment — Morgan — Gutenberg #17510]

merry spirit of the night, the jester presently adjusted a flute which hung from his shoulder by a scarlet cord and lazily piping a Christmas air, wandered to another room--to come suddenly upon a forgotten playmate of his boyhood days. "It--it can't be!" he reflected in startled interest. "It surely can't be Madge Hildreth!" But Madge Hildreth it surely was, spreading the satin folds of his grandmother's crimson gown in mocking courtesy. Moreover it was not the awkward, ragged elfish little gipsy who had tormented his debonair boyhood with her shy ardent worship of himself and his daring exploits, but instead a winsome vision of Christmas color and Christmas cheer, holly-red of cheek, with flashes of scarlet holly in her night black hair and eyes whose unfathomable dusk reflected no single hint of that old, wild worship slumbering still in the girl's rebellious heart. "And the symbolism of this stunning make-up?" queried Ralph after a while, lazily admiring. The girl's eyes flashed. "To-night, if you please," she said, "I am the spirit of the old-fashioned Christmas who dwells in the holly heart of the evergreen wood. A _country_ Christmas, ruddy-cheeked and cheerful and rugged like the winter holly--simple and old-fashioned and hallowed with memories like this bright soft crimson gown!" Well, she had been a queer, fanciful youngster too, Doctor Ralph remembered, always passionately aquiver with a wild sylvan poetry and over-fond of book-lore like her father. Mischievously glancing at a spray of mistletoe above the girl's dark head, he stepped forward with the careless gallantry that had won him many a kindly glance from pretty eyes and was strangely to fail him now. For at the look in Madge's calm eyes, he drew back, stammering. "I--I beg your pardon!" said Doctor Ralph. Later as he stood thoughtfully by his bedroom window, staring queerly at the wind-beaten elms, he found himself repeating Madge Hildreth's words. "Ruddy-cheeked and rugged and cheerful!"--indeed--this unforgettable Christmas eve. Yes--she was right. Had he not often heard his father say that the Christmas season epitomized all the rugged sympathy and heartiness and health of the country year! To-night the blazing Yule-log, his mother's face--how white her hair was growing, thought Doctor Ralph with a sudden tightening of his throat--all of these memories had strummed forgotten and finer chords. And darkly foiling the homely brightness came the picture of rushing, overstrung, bundle-laden city crowds, of shop-girls white and weary, of store-heaps of cedar and holly sapped by electric glare. Rush and strain and worry--yes--and a spirit of grudging! How unlike the Christmas peace of this white, wind-world outside his window! So Doctor Ralph went to bed with a sigh and a shrug--to listen while the sleety boughs tapping at his windows roused ghostly phantoms of his boyhood. Falling asleep, he dreamt that pretty Madge Hildreth had lightly waved a Christmas wand of crimson above his head and dispelled his weariness and discontent. IV Embers And in the morning--there was the royal glitter of a Christmas ice-storm to bring boyhood memories crowding again, boughs sheathed in crystal armor and the old barn roof aglaze with ice. Yes--Ralph thrilled--and there were the Christmas bunches of oats on the fences and trees and the roof of the barn--how well he remembered! For the old Doctor loved this Christmas custom too and never forgot the Christmas birds. And to-day--why of course--there would be double allowances of food for the cattle and horses, for old Toby the cat and Rover the dog. Hadn't Ralph once performed this cherished Christmas task himself! But now, clamoring madly at his door was a romping swarm of youngsters eager to show Uncle Ralph the Christmas tree which, though he had helped to trim it the night before, he inspected in great surprise. And here in his chair by another Yule-log he found Roger, staring wide-eyed at the glittering tree with his thin little arms full of Christmas gifts. Near him was Sister Madge whose black eyes, Ralph saw with approval, were very soft and gentle, and beyond in the coffee-fragrant dining-room Aunt Ellen and old Annie conspired together over a mammoth breakfast table decked with holly. "Oh, John, dear," Ralph heard his mother say as the Doctor came in, "I've always said that Christmas is a mother's day. Wasn't the first Christmas a mother's Christmas and the very first tree--a mother's tree?" and then the Doctor's scandalized retort--"Now--now, now, see here, Mother Ellen, it's a father's day, too, don't you forget that!" And so on to the Christmas twilight through a day of romping youngsters and blazing Yule-logs, of Christmas gifts and Christmas greetings--of a haunting shame for Doctor Ralph at the memory of the wild Christmas he had planned to spend with Griffin and Edwards. With the coming of the broad shadows which lay among the stiff, ice-fringed spruces like iris velvet, Doctor Ralph's nieces and nephews went flying out to help old Asher feed the stock. By the quiet fire the Doctor beckoned Ralph. "Suppose, my boy," he said, "suppose you take a look at the little lad's leg here. I've sometimes wondered what you would think of it." Coloring a little at his father's deferential tone Ralph turned the stocking back from the pitiful shrunken limb and bent over it, his dark face keen and grave. And now with the surgeon uppermost, Roger fancied Doctor Ralph's handsome eyes were nothing like so tired. Save for the crackle of the fire and the tick of the great clock, there was silence in the firelit room and presently Roger caught something in Doctor Ralph's thoughtful face that made his heart leap wildly. "An operation," said the young Doctor suddenly--and halted, meeting his father's eyes significantly. "You are sure!" insisted the old Doctor slowly. "In my day, it was impossible--quite impossible." "Times change," said the younger man. "I have performed such an operation successfully myself. I feel confident, sir--" but Roger had caught his hand now with a sob that echoed wildly through the quiet room. "Oh, Doctor Ralph," he blurted with blazing, agonized eyes, "you don't--you can't mean, sir, that I'll walk and run like other boys--and--and climb the Cedar King--" his voice broke in a passionate fit of weeping. "Yes," said Doctor Ralph, huskily, "I mean just that. Dad and I, little man, we're going to do what we can." By the window Sister Madge buried her face in her hands. "Come, come, now Sister Madge," came the Doctor's kindly voice a little later, "you've cried enough, lass. Roger is fretting about you and Doctor Ralph here, he says he's going to take you for a little sleigh-ride if you'll honor him by going." Outside a Christmas moon rode high above a sparkling ice-bright world and as the sleigh shot away into its quiet glory, Ralph, meeting the dark, tear-bright eyes of Sister Madge, tucked the robes closer about her with a hand that shook a little. "'Gipsy' Hildreth!" he said suddenly, smiling, but the hated nickname to-night was almost a caress. "Tell me," Ralph's voice was very grave--"You've been sewing? Mother spoke of it." "There was nothing else," said Sister Madge. "I could not leave Roger." "And now Mother wants you to stay on with her. You--you'll do that?" "She is very lonely," said Madge uncertainly and Ralph bit his lip. "Mother lonely!" he said. "She didn't tell me that." "Roger is wild to stay," went on Madge, looking away--"but I--oh--I fear it is only their wonderful kindness. Still there's the Doctor's rheumatism--and he does need some one to keep his books." "Rheumatism!" said Ralph sharply. "Yes," nodded Madge in surprise--"didn't you know. It's been pretty bad this winter. He's been thinking some of breaking in young Doctor Price to take part of his practise now and perhaps all of it later." "Price!" broke out Ralph indignantly. "Oh--that's absurd! Price couldn't possibly swing Dad's work. He's not clever enough." "He's the only one there is," said Madge and Ralph fell silent. All about them lay a glittering moonlit country of peaceful, firelit homes and snowy hills--of long quiet roads and shadowy trees and presently Ralph spoke again. "You like all this," he said abruptly, "the quiet--the country--and all of it?" Sister Madge's black eyes glowed. "After all," she said, "is it not the only way to live? This scent of the pine, the long white road, the wild-fire of the winter sunset and the wind and the hills--are they not God-made messages of mystery to man? Life among man-made things--like your cities--seems somehow to exaggerate the importance of man the maker. Life among the God-made hills dwarfs that artificial sense of egotism. It teaches you to marvel at the mystery of Creation. Yesterday when the Doctor and I were gathering the Christmas boughs, the holly glade in the forest seemed like some ancient mystic Christmas temple of the Druids where one might tell his rosary in crimson holly beads and forget the world!" Well--perhaps there was something fine and sweet and holy in the country something--a tranquil simplicity--a hearty ruggedness--that city dwellers forfeited in their head-long rush for man-made pleasure. After all, perhaps the most enduring happiness lay in the heart of these quiet hills. "My chief is very keen on country life," said Ralph suddenly. "He preaches a lot. Development of home-spirit and old-fashioned household gods--that sort of thing! He's a queerish sort of chap--my chief--and a bit too--er--candid at times. He was dad's old classmate, you know." And Ralph fell silent again, frowning. So Price was to take his father's practise! How it must gall the old Doctor! And mother was lonely, eh?--and Dad's rheumatism getting the best of him--Why Great Guns! mother and dad were growing _old_! And some of those snow-white hairs of theirs had come from worrying over him--John had said so. Ralph's dark face burned in the chill night wind. Well, for all old John's cutting sarcasm, his father still had faith in him and the trust in young Roger's eloquent eyes had fairly hurt him. God! they did not know! And then this queer Christmas heart-glow. How Griffin and Edwards and the rest of his gay friends would mock him for it? _Friends!_ After all--had he any friends in the finer sense of that finest of words? Such warm-hearted loyal friends for instance as these neighbors of his father's who had been dropping in all day with a hearty smile and a Christmas hand-shake. And black-eyed Sister Madge--this brave, little fighting gipsy-poet here--where--But here Ralph frowned again and looked away and even when the cheerful lights of home glimmered through the trees he was still thinking--after an impetuous burst of confidence to Sister Madge. So, later, when Doctor Ralph entered his father's study--his chin was very determined. "I was ashamed to tell you this morning, sir,"