[The Origin of Species — Darwin — Gutenberg #2009]

of vessels for the circulation of the fluids of the body. LAMELLATED.—Furnished with lamellæ or little plates. LARVA (pl. LARVÆ).—The first condition of an insect at its issuing from the egg, when it is usually in the form of a grub, caterpillar, or maggot. LARYNX.—The upper part of the windpipe opening into the gullet. LAURENTIAN.—A group of greatly altered and very ancient rocks, which is greatly developed along the course of the St. Laurence, whence the name. It is in these that the earliest known traces of organic bodies have been found. LEGUMINOSÆ.—An order of plants represented by the common peas and beans, having an irregular flower in which one petal stands up like a wing, and the stamens and pistil are enclosed in a sheath formed by two other petals. The fruit is a pod (or legume). LEMURIDÆ.—A group of four-handed animals, distinct from the monkeys and approaching the insectivorous quadrupeds in some of their characters and habits. Its members have the nostrils curved or twisted, and a claw instead of a nail upon the first finger of the hind hands. LEPIDOPTERA.—An order of insects, characterised by the possession of a spiral proboscis, and of four large more or less scaly wings. It includes the well-known butterflies and moths. LITTORAL.—Inhabiting the seashore. LOESS.—A marly deposit of recent (Post-Tertiary) date, which occupies a great part of the valley of the Rhine. MALACOSTRACA.—The higher division of the Crustacea, including the ordinary crabs, lobsters, shrimps, &c., together with the woodlice and sand-hoppers. MAMMALIA.—The highest class of animals, including the ordinary hairy quadrupeds, the whales and man, and characterised by the production of living young which are nourished after birth by milk from the teats (_Mammæ_, _Mammary glands_) of the mother. A striking difference in embryonic development has led to the division of this class into two great groups; in one of these, when the embryo has attained a certain stage, a vascular connection, called the _placenta_, is formed between the embryo and the mother; in the other this is wanting, and the young are produced in a very incomplete state. The former, including the greater part of the class, are called _Placental Mammals;_ the latter, or _Aplacental Mammals_, include the Marsupials and Monotremes (_Ornithorhynchus_). MAMMIFEROUS.—Having mammæ or teats (see MAMMALIA). MANDIBLES.—in insects, the first or uppermost pair of jaws, which are generally solid, horny, biting organs. In birds the term is applied to both jaws with their horny coverings. In quadrupeds the mandible is properly the lower jaw. MARSUPIALS.—An order of Mammalia in which the young are born in a very incomplete state of development, and carried by the mother, while sucking, in a ventral pouch (marsupium), such as the kangaroos, opossums, &c. (see MAMMALIA). MAXILLÆ.—in insects, the second or lower pair of jaws, which are composed of several joints and furnished with peculiar jointed appendages called palpi, or feelers. MELANISM.—The opposite of albinism; an undue development of colouring material in the skin and its appendages. METAMORPHIC ROCKS.—Sedimentary rocks which have undergone alteration, generally by the action of heat, subsequently to their deposition and consolidation. MOLLUSCA.—One of the great divisions of the animal kingdom, including those animals which have a soft body, usually furnished with a shell, and in which the nervous ganglia, or centres, present no definite general arrangement. They are generally known under the denomination of “shellfish”; the cuttle-fish, and the common snails, whelks, oysters, mussels, and cockles, may serve as examples of them. MONOCOTYLEDONS, or MONOCOTYLEDONOUS PLANTS.—Plants in which the seed sends up only a single seed-leaf (or cotyledon); characterised by the absence of consecutive layers of wood in the stem (endogenous growth), by the veins of the leaves being generally straight, and by the parts of the flowers being generally in multiples of three. (_Examples_, Grasses, Lilies, Orchids, Palms, &c.) MORAINES.—The accumulations of fragments of rock brought down by glaciers. MORPHOLOGY.—The law of form or structure independent of function. MYSIS-STAGE.—A stage in the development of certain crustaceans (prawns), in which they closely resemble the adults of a genus (_Mysis_) belonging to a slightly lower group. NASCENT.—Commencing development. NATATORY.—Adapted for the purpose of swimming. NAUPLIUS-FORM.—The earliest stage in the development of many Crustacea, especially belonging to the lower groups. In this stage the animal has a short body, with indistinct indications of a division into segments, and three pairs of fringed limbs. This form of the common fresh-water _Cyclops_ was described as a distinct genus under the name of _Nauplius_. NEURATION.—The arrangement of the veins or nervures in the wings of insects. NEUTERS.—Imperfectly developed females of certain social insects (such as ants and bees), which perform all the labours of the community. Hence, they are also called _workers_. NICTITATING MEMBRANE.—A semi-transparent membrane, which can be drawn across the eye in birds and reptiles, either to moderate the effects of a strong light or to sweep particles of dust, &c., from the surface of the eye. OCELLI.—The simple eyes or stemmata of insects, usually situated on the crown of the head between the great compound eyes. ŒSOPHAGUS.—The gullet. OOLITIC.—A great series of secondary rocks, so called from the texture of some of its members, which appear to be made up of a mass of small EGG-LIKE calcareous bodies. OPERCULUM.—A calcareous plate employed by many Molluscæ to close the aperture of their shell. The OPERCULAR VALVES of Cirripedes are those which close the aperture of the shell. ORBIT.—The bony cavity for the reception of the eye. ORGANISM.—An organised being, whether plant or animal. ORTHOSPERMOUS.—A term applied to those fruits of the Umbelliferæ which have the seed straight. OSCULANT.—Forms or groups apparently intermediate between and connecting other groups are said to be osculant. OVA.—Eggs. OVARIUM or OVARY (in plants).—The lower part of the pistil or female organ of the flower, containing the ovules or incipient seeds; by growth after the other organs of the flower have fallen, it usually becomes converted into the fruit. OVIGEROUS.—Egg-bearing. OVULES (of plants).—The seeds in the earliest condition. PACHYDERMS.—A group of Mammalia, so called from their thick skins, and including the elephant, rhinoceros, hippopotamus, &c. PALÆOZOIC.—The oldest system of fossiliferous rocks. PALPI.—Jointed appendages to some of the organs of the mouth in insects and Crustacea. PAPILIONACEÆ.—An order of plants (see LEGUMINOSÆ), The flowers of these plants are called _papilionaceous_, or butterfly-like, from the fancied resemblance of the expanded superior petals to the wings of a butterfly. PARASITE.—An animal or plant living upon or in, and at the expense of, another organism. PARTHENOGENESIS.—The production of living organisms from unimpregnated eggs or seeds. PEDUNCULATED.—Supported upon a stem or stalk. The pedunculated oak has its acorns borne upon a footstool. PELORIA or PELORISM.—The appearance of regularity of structure in the flowers of plants which normally bear irregular flowers. PELVIS.—The bony arch to which the hind limbs of vertebrate animals are articulated. PETALS.—The leaves of the corolla, or second circle of organs in a flower. They are usually of delicate texture and brightly coloured. PHYLLODINEOUS.—Having flattened, leaf-like twigs or leafstalks instead of true leaves. PIGMENT.—The colouring material produced generally in the superficial parts of animals. The cells secreting it are called _pigment-cells_. PINNATE.—Bearing leaflets on each side of a central stalk. PISTILS.—The female organs of a flower, which occupy a position in the centre of the other floral organs. The pistil is generally divisible into the ovary or germen, the style and the stigma. PLACENTALIA, PLACENTATA.—or PLACENTAL MAMMALS, See MAMMALIA. PLANTIGRADES.—Quadrupeds which walk upon the whole sole of the foot, like the bears. PLASTIC.—Readily capable of change. PLEISTOCENE PERIOD.—The latest portion of the Tertiary epoch. PLUMULE (in plants).—The minute bud between the seed-leaves of newly-germinated plants. PLUTONIC ROCKS.—Rocks supposed to have been produced by igneous action in the depths of the earth. POLLEN.—The male element in flowering plants; usually a fine dust produced by the anthers, which, by contact with the stigma effects the fecundation of the seeds. This impregnation is brought about by means of tubes (_pollen-tubes_) which issue from the pollen-grains adhering to the stigma, and penetrate through the tissues until they reach the ovary. POLYANDROUS (flowers).—Flowers having many stamens. POLYGAMOUS PLANTS.—Plants in which some flowers are unisexual and others hermaphrodite. The unisexual (male and female) flowers, may be on the same or on different plants. POLYMORPHIC.—Presenting many forms. POLYZOARY.—The common structure formed by the cells of the Polyzoa, such as the well-known seamats. PREHENSILE.—Capable of grasping. PREPOTENT.—Having a superiority of power. PRIMARIES.—The feathers forming the tip of the wing of a bird, and inserted upon that part which represents the hand of man. PROCESSES.—Projecting portions of bones, usually for the attachment of muscles, ligaments, &c. PROPOLIS.—A resinous material collected by the hivebees from the opening buds of various trees. PROTEAN.—Exceedingly variable. PROTOZOA.—The lowest great division of the animal kingdom. These animals are composed of a gelatinous material, and show scarcely any trace of distinct organs. The Infusoria, Foraminifera, and sponges, with some other forms, belong to this division. PUPA (pl. PUPÆ).—The second stage in the development of an insect, from which it emerges in the perfect (winged) reproductive form. In most insects the _pupal stage_ is passed in perfect repose. The _chrysalis_ is the pupal state of butterflies. RADICLE.—The minute root of an embryo plant. RAMUS.—One half of the lower jaw in the Mammalia. The portion which rises to articulate with the skull is called the _ascending ramus_. RANGE.—The extent of country over which a plant or animal is naturally spread. _Range in time_ expresses the distribution of a species or group through the fossiliferous beds of the earth’s crust. RETINA.—The delicate inner coat of the eye, formed by nervous filaments spreading from the optic nerve, and serving for the perception of the impressions produced by light. RETROGRESSION.—Backward development. When an animal, as it approaches maturity, becomes less perfectly organised than might be expected from its early stages and known relationships, it is said to undergo a _retrogade development_ or _metamorphosis_. RHIZOPODS.—A class of lowly organised animals (Protozoa), having a gelatinous body, the surface of which can be protruded in the form of root-like processes or filaments, which serve for locomotion and the prehension of food. The most important order is that of the Foraminifera. RODENTS.—The gnawing Mammalia, such as the rats, rabbits, and squirrels. They are especially characterised by the possession of a single pair of chisel-like cutting teeth in each jaw, between which and the grinding teeth there is a great gap. RUBUS.—The bramble genus. RUDIMENTARY.—Very imperfectly developed. RUMINANTS.—The group of quadrupeds which ruminate or chew the cud, such as oxen, sheep, and deer. They have divided hoofs, and are destitute of front teeth in the upper jaw. SACRAL.—Belonging to the sacrum, or the bone composed usually of two or more united vertebræ to which the sides of the pelvis in vertebrate animals are attached. SARCODE.—The gelatinous material of which the bodies of the lowest animals