# Adaptations of The Phantom of the Opera

There have been many literary and dramatic works based on Gaston Leroux's 1910 novel The Phantom of the Opera, ranging from stage musicals to films to children's books. Some well known stage and screen adaptations of the novel are the 1925 film and the Andrew Lloyd Webber musical (see The Phantom of the Opera (1986 musical)); Susan Kay's 1990 Phantom is one of the best known novels and includes in-depth study of the title character's life and experiences.

Film

Das Gespenst im Opernhaus or Das Phantom der Oper (1916): Featuring the Swedish actor Nils Olaf Chrisander (1884–1947) and the Norwegian actress Aud Egede-Nissen (1893–1974, aka Aud Egede Richter). Now a lost film, it is only known to have existed because of references to it in other media.
The Phantom of the Opera (1925): Featuring Lon Chaney, Norman Kerry and  Mary Philbin. For this classic silent film Universal Studios created a faithful replica of the Paris Opera House as a setting. The film was reissued in 1929 with sound effects, music and some reshot dialogue sequences (but none with Chaney). The scene in which Erik plays the organ and Christine creeps up behind him to snatch his mask off is often cited by critics and connoisseurs of film art as one of the most memorable moments in the history of all film. The makeup of Lon Chaney was so disfiguring that the camera operator lost focus while shooting the sequence, and theaters were urged to have smelling salts on hand in case ladies in the audience fainted in horror.
Spooks (1930): An Oswald the Lucky Rabbit cartoon.
Song at Midnight () (1937): Featuring Gu Menghe and Hu Ping, directed by Ma-Xu Weibang. This classic marks the first feature film talkie adaptation.
Phantom of the Opera (1943): Featuring Claude Rains as the Phantom and the singer Susanna Foster as Christine. This film reused the same Paris Opera studio set as the original silent film and once again features the spectacular scene in which the Phantom causes the chandelier to crash down on the heads of the audience. In this version, however, horror is mostly downplayed in favour of grand operatic spectacle. The Phantom's anger is sparked by his belief that the credit for his musical compositions is being stolen by the music publisher. The Phantom's facial disfigurement is caused by having had acid thrown in his face, rather than having been born disfigured, as in Leroux's original story. This accidental disfigurement became common, and copied in later film versions.
El Fantasma de la Opereta (1954): Featuring Gogó Andreu and Tono Andreu. Bears no similarity to the Leroux novel save the title.
El Fantasma de la Opereta (1959): Featuring German Valdés (Tin Tan) and Pedro de Aguillon.
Phantom of the Horse Opera (1961): A Woody Woodpecker cartoon.
The Phantom of the Opera (1962): Hammer Horror version featuring Herbert Lom and Heather Sears. This version has the Phantom playing the Toccata and Fugue in D Minor by Johann Sebastian Bach on the organ - which has become a cultural trope indicating tragic horror. The plot is very similar to the 1943 Claude Rains version, with the Phantom being prodded into activity because his own masterpiece, an opera about Joan of Arc, is being mounted in that opera house and credited to the opera's conductor.
The Mid-Nightmare, Part One (1962) and Part Two (1963) (-上集 Ye ban ge sheng - shang ji and 下集 xia ji): Remake of the 1937 Chinese film, this time featuring Zhao Lei and Betty Loh Ti.
Il Vampiro dell'Opera or The Monster of the Opera (1964): Featuring Giuseppe Addobbati.
Wicked, Wicked (1973):  Writer/director Richard L. Bare's split-screen horror-comedy which recycles the plot and utilizes a score composed for the 1925 film.
Phantom of the Paradise (1974): Also called The Phantom of the Fillmore; a rock musical directed by Brian De Palma. The film is a parody of multiple films and pop culture references.
Song at Midnight (1985): Remake of the 1937 Chinese film of the same name.
The Phantom of the Opera (1988): Featuring Aiden Grennell: Animated film that is mostly faithful to the original story.
The Phantom of the Ritz (1988): Featuring Joshua Sussman.
The Phantom of the Opera (1989): Directed by Dwight H. Little, featuring Robert Englund and Jill Schoelen. This is a rather sadistic and gory version of the story, though in this respect it resembles the original novel more than some more romantic versions. There is a Faustian motif throughout and the film features extracts from Gounod's opera Faust - as in the original novel. In this version, the Phantom was a handsome young man who sold his soul to the Devil in return for being loved for his music - his disfigurement is the Devil's way of making sure he is loved for no other reason. An additional innovation is that, instead of putting on masks, the Phantom stitches his disguises with thread and needle into his skin.
Phantom of the Mall: Eric's Revenge (1989): Featuring Derek Rydall.
The Phantom of the Opera (1991): Featuring David Staller and Elizabeth Walsh.
O Fantasma da Ópera (1991): Featuring Geiso Amadeu.
The Chipmunks - Phantom Of The Rock Opera (1991)
The Phantom Lover (1995): A third remake of the 1937 film, by Hong Kong director Ronny Yu and featuring Leslie Cheung. Title in Chinese is the same as the other versions.
Il Fantasma dell'Opera (1998): Directed by Dario Argento, featuring Julian Sands and Asia Argento, in which Julian Sands is a good-looking man whose animus comes from being abandoned as a baby and raised by the numberless rats in the subterranean levels of the opera house; he also, somehow, has developed telephathic abilities. He kills off various people who, in his opinion, spoil the wonderfulness of the opera house.
 Phantom of the Megaplex (2000): a Disney Channel Original Movie.
 A version of the character appears in the film adaptation of The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen as a terrorist named The Fantom, who is not really the Opera ghost although he uses his motif (2003).
Joel Schumacher's The Phantom of the Opera (2004): Adaptation of the Andrew Lloyd Webber and Charles Hart musical, starring Gerard Butler, Patrick Wilson and Emmy Rossum.
Angel of Music (2009): A low-budget independent film directed by John Woosley. The film is a semi-sequel to the original Leroux novel, revolving around a reporter's search for The Phantom's rumoured long lost child.
Erik: Portrait of a Living Corpse (2010): a low-budget, student film adaptation
The Phantom of the Opera at the Royal Albert Hall (2011): Adaptation of the Andrew Lloyd Webber and Charles Hart musical, starring Ramin Karimloo, Hadley Fraser and Sierra Boggess.
A Monster in Paris (2011): French film very loosely based on Gaston Leroux's novel.
The Phantom of the Opera (2014): A low-budget independent film directed by and starring Anthony Mann.
On June 6, 2017, Alex Kurtzman announced a new Phantom of the Opera film as part of Universal's Dark Universe. However, after Kurtzman’s departure, the project is most likely not happening.

Television
El Fantasma de la Ópera (1954): Argentine miniseries featuring Raissa Bignardi.
El Fantasma de la Ópera (1960): Argentine miniseries featuring Narciso Ibáñez Menta. Widely remembered; part of a series "Masterworks of Terror".
The Phantom of What Opera? (1971): an episode from Rod Serling's Night Gallery.
The Phantom of Hollywood (1974): TV Movie featuring Jack Cassidy as an old-time movie star who had been disfigured by an accident and now haunts the backlot of a condemned Hollywood studio.
The Phantom of the Opera (1983): TV Movie featuring Maximilian Schell, Michael York, and Jane Seymour.
The Phantom of the Opera (1990): Featuring Charles Dance as the Phantom/Erik and Teri Polo as Christine.
"Pantin' at the Opera" (1995): an episode of the PBS TV series, Wishbone.
Song at Midnight (2005): Television adaptation of the 1937 Chinese film by Ma-Xu Weibang, which in turn is a loose adaptation of Leroux's novel.

Stage
Das Phantom der Oper (1949) with music by A. Gerber - and the text by P. Wilhelm.
The Phantom of the Opera (1975) by David Giles.
"El Fantasma de la Opera" ("The Phantom of the Opera", 1976) Mexican musical adapted by Raúl Astor from the Gaston Leroux's book with music and lyrics by Mexican composer Nacho Méndez. It was staged at Teatro de los Insurgentes in Mexico City where it ran for almost 400 performances and showcased for Mexican TV.
Phantom of the Opera (1976/1984): Musical by Ken Hill, with lyrics set to music by Gounod, Offenbach, Verdi, and others.
Phantom of the Opera: A New Victorian Thriller (1979) by Gene Traylor.
The Phantom of the Opera: Or the Passage of Christine (1986) with book by Kathleen Masterson and music by David Bishop. Commissioned by and premiered at Capital Repertory Theatre in Albany, NY April 19-May 18, 1986.
The Phantom of the Opera (1986): Musical composed by Andrew Lloyd Webber with lyrics by Charles Hart and Richard Stilgoe. This musical was adapted into a film in 2004 directed by Joel Schumacher. A 25th annive