[The Physical Basis of Life — Huxley — Gutenberg #38262]

boulder, and a very disagreeable entertainment he had provided for me." "He wasn't very hospitable, then?" said Chisholm, smiling. "Rather much so, I might say," said the captain; "indeed, he received me with open arms. He was too affectionate altogether, and even now I think I hear the roar of delight he gave vent to as he commenced the fearful hug. I tried to prick him under the ribs with my knife. It broke on a bone, which caused the brute to increase rather than diminish the pressure. I could feel my bones crack, and my breath was squeezed out of me. Why at this awful moment my scared moudjik should hand me his knife, instead of using it himself, I never could tell; but God gave me strength to handle it, gentlemen. I had one hand free, and with that I plunged the weapon into the animal's chest, and we both rolled down together. "That evening two sledges in particular left the forest, going in different directions. One dashed along as fast as three horses could carry it, towards the house of my dear Adeline's father. It was the nearest house to the forest; therefore thither was I borne, all but lifeless from loss of blood. The other sledge went more slowly, of course, towards the village we had that morning left so merrily together. That sledge brought Bruin home. Gentlemen," said the captain, concluding his narrative, and once more taking his wife's hand, "I need not tell you how kind the old merchant was to me. Here is a proof of it. "The house where he and Adeline used to reside is now tenanted by some relations of ours, for my father-in-law has long since crossed the bourne whence no traveller ever returns; but we often visit the dear old home by the lake, and spend a few weeks there. We hope to do so this Christmas, and if you will but prolong your stay till then and accompany us, I think I can show you some nice sport." What could our heroes reply to so kind an invitation, but that they would be delighted to do so? One of them, indeed, was much more delighted than either of the other two; and that was Fred Freeman. Would you know the reason why, reader? You may learn it, then, from the following fragment of a conversation which took place between the trio one evening when they were alone together:-- "Chisholm O'Grahame," said Fred, "we used to laugh at poor Frank for being so deeply in love with his beautiful Eenie Lyell. You must laugh alone now, my boy, for I can feel for him." "What!" cried Chisholm, delightedly, "Are you too in for it?" "I fear it's a fact," said Fred; "and so you two can leave me here to my fate, if you choose, and go on with your adventures by yourselves--that is, if Miss Varde will look kindly on me." "Ridiculous!" said Chisholm. "No, no, Fred, my lad, engage yourself if you like, and return some other day for this charming girl; but round the world with us you come, and, indeed, I think the sooner we start the better." "Heigho!" sighed Fred, and Frank felt for him if Chisholm did not. CHAPTER NINE. THE RUSSIAN STEPPES (CONCLUDED). PLEASANT TIMES--A GLORIOUS HIDE--A HAPPY CHRISTMAS--BOAR-HUNTING-- ATTACKED BY WOLVES. Still pleasantly passed the time of our heroes away at Captain Varde's delightful residence. He did all in his power to render them happy and comfortable; he even invited friends from a distance to visit at the house, in case they should be dull in the evenings, with no one to talk to but himself; and very pleasant people they turned out to be. As autumn wore away, and the days got shorter and colder, they were, of course, confined a good deal to the house; but, what with whist and chess, music and dancing, they never thought a day too long. Fred's "little love affair," as Chisholm somewhat irreverently styled it, flourished apace. In fact he was engaged to Miss Varde, and the engagement received the sanction of her parents. "What a pity it is," said Captain Varde, one day, "that I cannot find a match for you, Mr O'Grahame." "You are very kind, I am sure, to think of me," said Chisholm. "Yes," continued Varde, "for then, you know, there would be no more occasion for you to leave Russia." "Ah! but," said Chisholm, "I have that young dog, Frank, to show the world to. He is in my charge and in Fred's. After we have done the needful by him, we may return--Fred is bound to--and then there is no saying what might happen." One day, when our friends came out to have their usual run before breakfast, they found the ground all white with snow. This would have warned them, if nothing else had, that Christmas was on ahead; but they also found the moudjiks busy at work getting ready the sledges, and preparations going on everywhere for a long journey. The morning arrives, and the sledges are brought round, and soon filled with as happy a party, probably, as ever set out on a long dreary mid-winter journey in the wilds of Russia. Crack go the whips; the horses toss their saucy heads and manes in the air; then, with a brave plunge, forward they flee, and, with a cheer from the servants left behind, and a shout from onlooking moudjiks, they are off. Paddy, in the song of "The Groves of Blarney," talks about "the complatest thing in nature being a coach-and-six or a feather bed;" had he ridden in a Russian travelling-sledge, I daresay he would have considered it a sort of combination of the two. Conversation is easy, as there is no rattling of vile wheels; the air is bracing, and the scenery charming, though hills and dales, and the great still forests themselves, are robed in a garment of snow. At noon they stop for rest and refreshment, then mount and go on again; but in the evening they reach a town of some importance, and here they stop for the night. Onward again next day, and onward the next; and at noon of the fourth the country gets wilder; there is hardly a house to be seen; there are giant trees in the wide, wild forests they traverse, and giant hills on the horizon. Suddenly, at a bend of the road, a great lake--frozen hard, and partially snow-clad--makes its appearance; and not far from its banks, though almost hidden by trees, a lordly mansion, from many of the chimneys of which blue smoke is curling upwards, against the white of a hill that almost overhangs it. Captain Varde hails the second sledge, and points laughingly towards this mansion, and they know they are nearing the home of his people. Half an hour afterwards, everybody is dismounting from the sledges, greetings are being exchanged, and steaming horses led away to their stables by smiling retainers. I am not going to describe the life our heroes led at this mansion, which might well be termed a castle; nor even to tell you of the many adventures--some of them wild enough--they had among the hills and in the forests around. One evening the sledge containing Captain Varde and Chisholm got behind the others, and they were attacked by a pack of hungry wolves in fine form. They had had a good day among the boars--our friends, I mean, not the wolves--and one was towing astern. This particular "piggie" the wolves thought would make them an excellent supper; although, for that matter, being, as they are, hippophagists, they would not have objected to a bite of horse-flesh. The sun was declining in the west, as the sledge tore along through the forest; they had still many versts to ride, and attacked in flank and rear by such a number of these unwelcome guests--for the woods seemed alive with them--the danger was one not to be made light of. Happily for them, their horses were hardy and fleet; they had good guns, and plenty of ammunition, so the slaughter was immense. Kept at bay for a time, the wolves, being reinforced, rallied and pressed the sledgemen closely. Chisholm thought of cutting the boar adrift, but Varde wouldn't hear of it. "Nay, my boy, nay," he cried, "we will never strike our colours while we've a single cartridge left unfired." Chisholm laughed, and peppered away, and with such good effect, that ere the sun had quite gone down, the enemy drew off and left them, and they soon after regained their companions. There was much more of this kind of thing; suffice it to say that they spent a Christmas of never-to-be-forgotten happiness, and left at last with the heartfelt farewells of their kind entertainers ringing in their ears, and promises that, if Providence spared them, this visit would certainly not be their last. CHAPTER TEN. PART IV--THE WILDS OF AFRICA. OFF TO THE CAPE--AMONG THE ROCK RABBITS--A WILD RIDE--LOST ON THE PLAINS. "Isn't it a glorious morning," said Chisholm, coming on deck and joining his friends Frank and Fred, who were reclining in their lounge chairs, books in hand, under the awning reading, or pretending to read. And Chisholm himself looked glorious, glorious in the strength and beauty of his young manhood. He was dressed in white from top to toe, with sun hat and low cut collar, which showed his brown and shapely neck to perfection. His face was weather-beaten, that was the least that could be said of it, and loosely dressed as he was, you seemed to see the play of every muscle in his manly form, as he moved; and, when he waved his arms almost rejoicingly in the balmy but bracing breeze, that fanned the sunny sea, he looked as lithe and graceful as a young tiger. "A glorious morning," he said again. "Beautiful," said Fred, gazing languidly around him. "You seem in fine form," said Frank, smiling. "Just had a salt water bath. The other fellows in my cabin had soda and brandy. I feel fresher now than they do." The ship was a steamer, _Druid_, but she was staggering along under a power of canvas and, bar accident, two more days would see them safe in Cape Town. Fred Freeman had been very loth and sorry to leave his friends in Russia, for reasons well known to the reader. Frank, for reasons of a similar nature, had been just as anxious to get back to dear old Wales, to enjoy, so he said, six weeks' hunting. But Chisholm had looked at him with a right merry twinkle in his blue eyes as he replied,-- "Nay, boy, nay,