[The Descent of Man — Darwin — Gutenberg #28846]

for us. I, for one, shall be glad to forget all about home duties." Just then there was a great flapping of wings and Ducky Waddles came wabbling after them. "Why don't you wait for a fellow," he panted. "I'm all out of breath trying to catch up to you. I almost had to fly." As they crossed the Old Cow Path they met Little Jack Rabbit hopping home to the Old Bramble Patch. "We're going to make a visit in Turtle Town," said Henny Penny. "Why don't you come, too?" "Haven't time," answered the little bunny. "Mother sent me over to Cousin Cottontail for lollypop frosting. She must have it in time to cover the carrot cake for supper." BOBBY TAIL MR. JOHN RABBIT had been a great jumper in his youth, and Little Jack Rabbit wished to learn to jump as far as his father, and even farther. So every day he practiced jumping in the Sweet Clover Field near the Old Rail Fence until by and by he could jump over the second rail. "Pretty good," said Mr. Rabbit. "Don't believe I did any better when I was your age. How is Bobby Tail getting along?" Now Little Jack Rabbit's brother was called Bobby Tail, because his tail was so short. Yes, siree, it was so short that it looked exactly like a white powder puff. And his eyes were just like little pink beads. But they weren't any pinker than his nose. But, I'm sorry to say, there was something wrong with Bobby Tail. He was too lazy for anything. That was what was the matter with him. He didn't want to learn to jump--he'd rather spend his time eating clover tops. By and by he grew to be dreadfully fat. And a fat bunny can't run fast nor jump far. Bobby Tail found this to be true when one day Sic'em, the Farmer's Dog, chased him across the Sunny Meadow. The Bunny Brothers had hopped down to the Old Duck Pond to see Granddaddy Bullfrog, when all of a sudden Sic'em saw them. Goodness me! What a chase he gave them! Over the Sunny Meadow, through the Shady Forest, and along the Old Rail Fence! At first Bobby Tail was able to keep up with brother, but after a while he fell behind. "Hurry up!" shouted Little Jack Rabbit. But, Oh dear me! Bobby Tail was so fat and so short of breath that he couldn't. Closer and closer came Sic'em till the little bunny could almost feel his hot breath. "If I ever get back to the Old Bramble Patch," he thought, "I'll practice running and jumping every day in the week." Just then, he reached the Old Rail Fence. Another jump landed him in the dear Old Bramble Patch, leaving Sic'em barking and growling outside the prickly bushes. "You've had a narrow escape," said Mr. Rabbit, looking up over his evening paper, "I hope it will teach you a lesson!" And it did. The very next day Bobby Tail practiced jumping with Little Jack Rabbit, and kept it up until he became almost as good a jumper as his brother. But Old Sic'em never knew how this came to pass. He was too busy keeping watch over the Old Farmyard to bother his head about Bobby Tail, for Danny Fox, who was always prowling around, hunting for a stray chicken, kept the old dog forever on the lookout. SUNSHINE "WHERE did you get your red coat?" asked Little Jack Rabbit, looking up from the Old Bramble Patch. "Oh, that's my secret," answered Red Bird from the Old Rail Fence. "There's been a legend in our family about it ever since the Flood." "You don't say so," exclaimed the little rabbit. "You've heard of the Great Flood, I suppose, that happened hundreds and hundreds of years ago?" Little Jack Rabbit nodded. "I hope we don't get another to wash away the Old Bramble Patch." "Well," continued Red Bird, "the legend is that one day, after it had been raining ever so long, when there was nothing but water all around and everybody in the ark was feeling very miserable, Mother Noah wrung her hands and said, 'Oh, dear! We'll all be lost. We'll never get ashore!' "Just then my ancestor began to whistle, and the next minute a beam of sunshine broke through the clouds and settled upon him. "'My dear, we are reproved,' said Father Noah. 'The little bird has more courage than we have. Hear him whistle.' "Then everybody turned to look at the brave little whistler. He was so embarrassed that he BLUSHED--we were gray before that time, they say--blushed so very deeply that our feathers have never lost their bright red from that day to this." "Well, well," exclaimed the little rabbit. "When do you go away for the winter?" "I'm not going away--I'm going to stay right here," answered Red Bird. "You'll find it pretty breezy up there," said Little Jack Rabbit with a twinkle of his pink nose. "Oh, I don't know. I've got on my double-breasted red coat." "But what will you find to eat when the berries are all gone?" asked the little rabbit. "I'll pick up crumbs at the Old Farm House," replied Red Bird cheerfully. "You've got a sunshiny disposition," said Little Jack Rabbit admiringly. "I guess your ancestors handed down something besides a red coat--some of that sunshine that turned his feathers red must have crept into his heart." "I don't know," replied Red Bird. "Maybe it doesn't make much difference how you got it, as long as you keep it," said the little bunny as he hopped back into the Old Bramble Patch to tell his mother all about it. TURKEY TIM TURKEY TIM in his turban-colored comb strutted about the Old Farmyard, spreading his tail like a Japanese fan to the bright light that Mr. Merry Sun sent down from the Big Blue Sky. "I wonder what makes Turkey Tim so proud?" asked Henny Penny. Little Jack Rabbit wiggled his pink nose, but said nothing. "Is it because the Kind Farmer is buying chestnuts for him from Chippy Chipmunk?" Still the little rabbit made no reply. "Please tell me," begged Henny Penny. "You can whisper in my ear." "Turkey Tim thinks the Kind Farmer is fond of him, but that's not the reason," answered the little rabbit. "What is the reason?" asked Henny Penny, who you see by this time was a very curious little hen. "Turkey Tim wouldn't believe me if I told him," said the little rabbit. "Wouldn't he?" exclaimed the little hen, her feathers ruffled with excitement and curiosity. "It's a big secret," whispered the little bunny. "Tell me quick," coaxed Henny Penny. "Thanksgiving!" whispered Little Jack Rabbit. "Haven't you heard of chestnut-fed turkeys for Thanksgiving?" "Do you mean they are going to kill Turkey Tim?" cried the little hen. "I certainly do," answered the little rabbit. "But he's so proud he wouldn't believe me. Why, he thinks he's more wonderful than Cocky Doodle." "Well, he isn't," said Henny Penny. "Cocky Doodle's the most wonderful of all the Feathered Folk, for he's the one who wakes up Mr. Merry Sun. Cocky Doodle is the cock-a-doodle-do clock of the whole wide world. Why, if it weren't for him Mr. Merry Sun might stay in bed all day." Just then along came Turkey Tim, but he didn't look so proud when the little hen told him about Thanksgiving. "Who told you?" he asked in a trembling voice. "Little Jack Rabbit," answered Henny Penny, pointing to the truthful little bunny. "I guess I'll make a visit in the Friendly Forest," said Turkey Tim in a low voice, and off he went as fast as his legs would take him. But, Oh dear me! No sooner was he there than Billy Breeze began to sing: "Look out, look out for Danny Fox! He sneaks about in his woolen socks, You never can tell where he is at, For he creeps around like a tip-toe cat." PHOEBE PHEASANT LITTLE Phoebe Pheasant's dew-wet feet hurried along the edge of the Sunny Meadow. Mr. Merry Sun hadn't been up long enough to dry the grass, for it was very early in the morning. In some places the dew had turned to frost, but the little pheasant didn't mind that in the least, for she is a hardy bird, and not a bit afraid of cold weather. The weather is about the only thing she isn't afraid of, for she is very timid. Although she sometimes went to the Old Farmyard for breakfast, at the slightest noise she would fly away. As she hurried along through the dewy frost she caught sight of Little Jack Rabbit. And as he was the one person she wished to see that morning, it didn't take her long to reach the Old Bramble Patch. "Good morning, Phoebe Pheasant," said the little bunny. "You seem in a hurry." "Yes, I'm in a dreadful hurry to ask you something," replied the little pheasant. "Well, what is it?" laughed the little bunny. "You remember Turkey Tim left the Old Farmyard before Thanksgiving?" "Of course I do," answered the little rabbit. "He wants to know whether the Kind Farmer has been looking for him?" whispered Phoebe Pheasant. "He doesn't dare go back himself to find out." "I should say not," answered the little rabbit. "The Kind Farmer's dreadfully put out. He had to go without his Thanksgiving turkey!" "Then you think it would be dangerous for Turkey Tim to go back to the Old Farmyard?" "Yes, just now," replied the little bunny. "He'd better wait until everybody has forgotten Thanksgiving." "It's dreadfully hard on him, all alone in the Shady Forest," sighed the little pheasant. "He's not a Wild Turkey, you know." "Never mind if he isn't," answered Little Jack Rabbit. "He'll be a Roast Turkey if he goes back now to the Old Farmyard." THE SNOWBALL BILLY BREEZE had kicked up an awful racket all night around the Old Briar Patch, but Little Jack Rabbit hadn't heard him. No, sir. The little bunny had been too sound asleep to hear anything, but when he looked out in the morning, goodness me! how he shivered. The ground was all covered with a white mantle, but he didn't know it was snow. This was the first snow he had ever seen. It made everything look strange, and the ground was as smooth as Mrs. Rabbit's best linen tablecloth. Pretty soon he hopped down to the Bubbling Brook, but it, too, had changed. It was smooth, like glass. So the little rabbit leaned over the bank to listen, but just then Billy Breeze made a dreadful racket and whirled the snow about in great clouds. But