# Nouvelle Vague (album)

Nouvelle Vague is the debut studio album by the French band Nouvelle Vague. It was first released on 9 August 2004 on Peacefrog Records.

The album consists entirely of easy listening and bossa nova versions of songs that were written and recorded during the post-punk/new wave era. The band's name is a play on words, new wave and bossa nova being the literal translations, in English and Portuguese respectively, of the French phrase Nouvelle Vague, which is itself a reference to the French cinema movement of the 1950s and 1960s. The songs were recorded with female vocalists who had not previously heard the songs they would be covering.

Background and production
Marc Collin and Olivier Libaux began work on the project in 2003, after Collin had the idea of covering Joy Division's "Love Will Tear Us Apart" in a bossa nova style.
Libaux later explained: "I met Marc Collin during the 90's, at a friend's place. Marc was the first musician I met in years who I could talk [to] about new wave music. For some reason, at the end of the 80's, punk and new wave music had turned into a sort of old-fashioned music, which nobody was talking about anymore. Meeting Marc, I could talk about The Stranglers, The Cure and The Sisters of Mercy again. We then have worked on a couple of albums he was producing ... Starting Nouvelle Vague was sounding obvious for us, as our ideas were matching, and the songs were happening well and quickly." The album was produced and recorded over a period of eight months.

Artwork
The Guardian included the album's artwork in a list of the ten "most beautiful sleeves of 2004". The newspaper wrote, "The band's covers feature sultry 1960s figures, the work of fashion designer Giles Deacon, with a self-consciously lo-fi feel." The album's art director was quoted explaining, "We were very anti-computer ... Each letter of the band's name was cut out by hand, but done so in a deliberately rigid manner, as a kind of whimsical nod to modernism."

Release
Nouvelle Vague peaked at number 69 on the French album charts, spending a total of 39 weeks in the top 200. The album also charted on Belgian album charts, peaking at number 100 in the Walloon chart and number 96 in the Flemish chart. In 2006, it was reported that the album had sold more than 200,000 copies worldwide.

Critical reception

Nouvelle Vague received generally positive reviews. Pitchfork'''s reviewer wrote, "The supposed ignorance of the singers plays well for this record's lack of irony, a big part of what makes it succeed as a well-meaning, well-executed novelty."The Telegraph wrote, "Marc Collin and Oliver Libaux and their eight guest chanteuses transform these songs with such skill and sincerity to their Latin syncopation that each becomes altogether new and lovely." The Guardian's reviewer wrote, "Only a frisky samba romp through Depeche Mode's 'Just Can't Get Enough' flirts with kitsch. Elsewhere, familiar lyrics and arrangements are turned inside out to generate frosty menace (The Clash's 'Guns of Brixton'), giggly coquetry ('Too Drunk To Fuck' by the Dead Kennedys) or haunting languor (The Cure's 'A Forest', teeming with birdsong)."

The more negative reviews take issue with the concept of the album itself. AllMusics review begins: "The best compliment that can be paid to Nouvelle Vague's self-titled debut album: it isn't as arch and smirking as a collection of bossa nova versions of new wave classics by fetching French and Brazilian chanteuses would suggest." The NME gave the album a 1 out of 10 rating, writing, "the very concept of Nouvelle Vague – alternative '80s hits done in a deeply kitsch, sub-Bebel Gilberto sunset-samba style – is one that's so tired, so looooong past any imagined sell-by date that we're honestly astounded it exists." Several reviewers drew comparisons, both favourable and unfavourable, with an album of Kraftwerk covers recorded by the German musician Uwe Schmidt (also known as Señor Coconut), El Baile Alemán (2000).

In 2015, The Telegraph named the album's cover of "Just Can't Get Enough" in a list of the "50 best covers".

 Track listing 

 Personnel 
Nouvelle Vague
Marc Collin – keyboards, programming, arrangement, production, mixing
Olivier Libaux – bass, guitar, keyboards, arrangement, production, mixing

Vocalists
 Eloisia – vocals ("Love Will Tear Us Apart" and "Just Can't Get Enough")
 Camille – vocals ("In a Manner of Speaking", "Guns of Brixton", "Too Drunk to Fuck" and "Making Plans for Nigel")
 Mélanie Pain – vocals ("This Is Not a Love Song" and "Teenage Kicks")
 Alex – vocals ("Marian")
 Marina Céleste – vocals ("A Forest" and "Sorry for Laughing")
 Silja – vocals ("I Melt with You" and "Wishing (If I Had a Photograph of You)")
 Sir Alice – vocals ("Psyche")
 Daniella D'Ambrosio – vocals ("Friday Night Saturday Morning")

Additional personnel
 Nicolas Deutsch – double bass (Tracks 1–4)
 Giles Deacon – illustration
 Dylan Kendle – art direction
 David Sheppard – liner notes

 Charts 

 Certifications 

Release history

 References 

 External links 
 
 
 2005 live session for KCRW's Morning Becomes Eclectic'', featuring performances of several tracks from the album

2004 debut albums
Nouvelle Vague (band) albums
Luaka Bop albums
Peacefrog Records albums
Covers albums