Biology Research Paper

Title: Editorial: Neuroinflammation and Cognition

Abstract:
Aging is a complex process, and one of the major risk factors for onset and progression of various neurodegenerative diseases. Increased human longevity has magnified the negative impact that aging can have on cognitive performance. The number of individuals 65 years or older will increase exponentially over the next several decades, and age-related cognitive impairment is expected to have a detrimental impact on individuals, their families, and society. An early sign of age-related cognitive decline in humans and rodent models is impaired executive function and spatial memory performance. Synaptic plasticity in the mammalian central nervous system has been the subject of intense investigation, and is regarded as a principal candidate for cellular mechanisms involved in learning and memory. Senescent physiology including altered synaptic plasticity and cell excitability contributes to the decline in cognitive function associated with aging and age associated neurodegenerative diseases. Neuroinflammation is a common feature of virtually every central nervous system disease, and is being increasingly recognized as a potential mediator of cognitive impairments. Systemic inflammation levels are increased with advanced age and neurodegeneration. The impact of age on neuroinflammatory responses including glial activation, increased production of proinflammatory cytokines, and aberrant neuronal signaling could magnify the deterioration of the central nervous system microenvironment in disease, and may contribute to accelerated cognitive impairment. However, a clear mechanistic understanding of these interactions is lacking. Given the high complexity of aging process and various mechanisms contributing to age-associated cognitive impairment, it is an arduous task to pinpoint on any single factor. This research topic in the Frontiers in Aging Neuroscience has produced a highly informative collection of original research articles (13), reviews (two), and a general commentary that cover comprehensive aspect of neuroinflammation and possible therapeutic interventions in rescuing cognitive impairments.