# University of Bayreuth

The University of Bayreuth (originally called in German Universität Bayreuth) is a public research university located in Bayreuth, Germany. It is one of the youngest German universities. It is broadly organized into seven undergraduate and graduate faculties, with each faculty defining its own admission standards and academic programs in near autonomy.

The university offers several interdisciplinary courses such as Global Change Ecology, Theatre and Media Studies, and Health Economics. It is a member of the Elite Network of Bavaria (Elitenetzwerk Bayern), an educational policy concept of Bavaria for the promotion of gifted pupils and students in the higher education sector.

Foundation of the University 
On November 5, 1969, the Bayreuth City Council addressed the economic stagnation and emigration trends in northeastern Bavaria as a result of its location near the borders with the GDR and Czechoslovakia. In order to initiate an effective structural improvement, which would guarantee equivalent living conditions with the rest of the federal territory, various measures were necessary. In this context, they unanimously requested the establishment of a university in the city. On March 19, 1970, a university association was founded, whose membership quickly grew to 800. In addition to Bayreuth, Bamberg, Coburg, Landshut, Passau and Ingolstadt also applied as locations for a university or college.

Members of all parties represented in the Bavarian state parliament, the district parliament of Upper Franconia and numerous public figures campaigned for the construction of the university. Konrad Pöhner and Simon Nüssel as well as the mayor of Bayreuth, Hans Walter Wild, who showed great negotiating skills, deserve special mention. As early as July 16, 1970, a Landtag resolution was reached according to which the next Bavarian state university was to be located in Bayreuth. In 1971, the Science Council recommended that the university be included in the measures under the Higher Education Construction Promotion Act. A structural advisory board was formed under the chairmanship of physicist Wolfgang Wild, which expected the university to have 8500 student places and 3200 employees by 1985. The university's new location was approved by the Bavarian state parliament.

The university was established by the Bavarian Parliament on January 1, 1972, as the seventh Bavarian state university. The Landtag's decision was celebrated in the city with a torchlight procession on December 14, 1971. "Since this afternoon at 2:19 p.m., Bayreuth is once again a university city!" the mayor had announced to the approximately 3000 citizens who had gathered in front of the city hall. Police loudspeaker trucks announced the event throughout the city; church bells, the first official ringing of the new city hall carillon, a rally, a rocket shot from the roof of the city hall, brass band music, and free beer gave expression to the general joy."

Instead of the sites Wendelhöfen and Roter Hügel, which had also been considered, the site of the former parade ground south of the Kreuzstein and Birken districts was chosen. The office of the University of Bayreuth began its activities in 1972, initially in the House of German Shorthand ("Stenohaus") on Luitpoldplatz, which had been built by the National Socialists. In October 1973, founding president Klaus Dieter Wolff took office. On March 23, 1974, the cornerstone was laid, and on November 27, 1975, Minister of Culture Hans Maier opened the University of Bayreuth with a state ceremony in the Margravial Opera House, with a focus on the natural sciences. The University of Bayreuth was founded in 1947.

Development since 1975 
It began research and teaching operations in the winter semester of 1975/76 with 637 students, 24 professors and one female professor. Initially, it offered diploma courses in biology and mathematics, as well as teaching positions for elementary and secondary schools and for grammar schools (mathematics, physics and physical education). The former University of Education was initially incorporated into the university as the Faculty of Education. In the winter semester of 1977/78, it was dissolved and the didactic subjects were integrated into the faculties of the respective disciplines. Elementary school teacher training was still offered in Bayreuth until 2005, in addition to diploma and master's degree courses and courses for teaching positions at secondary schools. The courses of study for teaching positions at Gymnasiums and Realschulen continued to be offered.

The first structure on the campus was the Geosciences I building west of the "Birkengut" farm, completed in 1975, initially used by the university, but demolished after a fire in 1994. In 1977, the Geosciences II building was added, and from 1980 to 1983, Natural Sciences II was built. In 1988, the university library, which until then had been housed in a temporary structure, was inaugurated and the foundation of the 8.6 million DM Humanities II building was concreted. On January 5 of that year, after four years of preparation, physicists Frank Pobell, Kurt Gloos and Peter Smeibidl succeeded in setting a new low temperature record. In October 1990, a cooperation agreement was signed with the Czechoslovak Pavol Jozef Šafárik University in Košice, and in November 1990, the university's combined heat and power plant went into operation. The DM 2.3 million plant was designed and built by Energieversorgung Oberfranken. In June 1991, Czechoslovak human rights activist and state president Václav Havel was awarded an honorary doctorate from the University of Bayreuth.

In 1994, the university administration was moved from Kanalstraße in the city center (former "Steno-Haus") to the campus. In the same year, the Auditorium Maximum with a capacity of 700 seats was completed, and in 1999 the building for the Faculty of Applied Natural Sciences (FAN), founded in 1998, was completed. In August 1996, Bayreuth became the first Bavarian university city to introduce the semester ticket.

 ·        Focus on Experimental Ecology
 ·        Emphasis Macromolecular Chemistry
 ·        Emphasis on Africanology
 ·        Research Institute for Musical Theater (fimt)
 ·        Technical physicist degree program
 ·        Major in Business Law.

In addition to the formation of focal points, it was the "interface philosophy" that proved particularly effective for the further development of the university. It entails providing promising scientific teaching and research at the points of contact and intersection between different disciplines. On this basis, interdisciplinarity in almost all areas has been a particularly typical feature of Bayreuth from the very beginning.

In connection with the expansion of the ecological focus, the University of Bayreuth was able to begin establishing a large-scale ecological-botanical garden to support research and teaching shortly after the start of operations, in which vegetation types from all over the world were to be recreated and research activities relevant to the profile were to be made possible. At the same time, the concept included the novel aspect of public and recreational value for the region.

In the summer of 1977, the Research Institute for Musical Theater began its activities in Thurnau Castle. On November 27, 1981, the Africa Center "Iwalewahaus" was opened in the building of the former margravial mint. Under the name "Plant-Herbivore Systems", the first graduate college in Bavaria was established in 1987.

In 1989, Arthur Maria Rabenalt, then 83 years old, was appointed honorary professor. Because of anti-Semitic and racist content in his works such as ... rides for Germany and Das Filmbett, this appointment was not without controversy. In addition, there were accusations that he had "bought" the title of professor by setting up a foundation. In this context, Wole Soyinka, Nigerian winner of the Nobel Prize for Literature, asked the university to refrain for the time being from awarding him an honorary doctorate, which had been scheduled for that year.

Towards the end of the decade, the university once again significantly expanded its profile by extending its previous four research foci to nine and by introducing the bachelor's and master's system in the winter semester 1999/2000 as part of the European course reforms (Bologna Process). The foci were reformulated as follows:

·        Africanology

·        Dynamics and order: development of legal culture and economy

·        High pressure and high temperature research

·        Comparative culture and intercultural processes

·        Macromolecular and colloid research

·        Molecular biosciences

·        New Materials

·        Nonlinear dynamics

·        Ecological and environmental sciences.

The increasing competition in science has recently been reflected, among other things, in the emerging standards and certifications in the area of accreditati