# History of gravitational theory

In physics, theories of gravitation postulate mechanisms of interaction governing the movements of bodies with mass. There have been numerous theories of gravitation since ancient times. The first extant sources discussing such theories are found in ancient Greek philosophy. This work was furthered through the Middle Ages by Indian, Islamic, and European scientists, before gaining great strides during the Renaissance and Scientific Revolution—culminating in the formulation of Newton's law of gravity. This was superseded by Albert Einstein's theory of relativity in the early 20th century.

Greek philosopher Aristotle () found that objects immersed in a medium tend to fall at speeds proportional to their weight. Vitruvius () understood that objects fall based on their specific gravity. In the 6th century CE, Byzantine Alexandrian scholar John Philoponus modified the Aristotelian concept of gravity with the theory of impetus. In the 7th century, Indian astronomer Brahmagupta spoke of gravity as an attractive force. In the 14th century, European philosophers Jean Buridan and Albert of Saxony—who were influenced by certain Islamic scholars—developed the theory of impetus and linked it to the acceleration and mass of objects. Albert also developed a law of proportion regarding the relationship between the speed of an object in free fall and the time elapsed.

Italians of the 16th century found that objects in free fall tend to accelerate equally. In 1632, Galileo Galilei put forth the basic principle of relativity. The existence of the gravitational constant was explored by various researchers from the mid-17th century, helping Isaac Newton formulate his law of universal gravitation. Newton's classical mechanics were superseded in the early 20th century, when Einstein developed the special and general theories of relativity. The hypothetical force carrier of gravity remains an outlier in the search for a theory of everything, for which various models of quantum gravity are candidates.

Antiquity

The Ionian Greek philosopher Heraclitus () used the word logos ('word') to describe a kind of law which keeps the cosmos in harmony, moving all objects, including the stars, winds, and waves.

In the 4th century BCE, Greek philosopher Aristotle taught that there is no effect or motion without a cause. The cause of the downward natural motion of heavy bodies, such as the element earth and water, was related to their nature (gravity), which caused them to move downward toward the center of the (geocentric) universe. For this reason Aristotle supported a spherical Earth, since "every portion of earth has weight until it reaches the centre, and the jostling of parts greater and smaller would bring about not a waved surface, but rather compression and convergence of part and part until the centre is reached". On the other hand, light bodies such as the element fire and air, were moved by their nature (levity) upward toward the celestial sphere of the Moon. In his Physics, Aristotle correctly asserted that objects immersed in a medium tend to fall at speeds proportional to their weight and inversely proportional to the density of the medium.

Greek philosopher Strato of Lampsacus (c.  335 – c. 269 BCE) rejected the Aristotelian belief of "natural places" in exchange for a mechanical view in which objects do not gain weight as they fall, instead arguing that the greater impact was due to an increase in speed. Epicurus (c. 341 – 270 BCE) viewed weight as an inherent property of atoms which influences their movement.

Greek astronomer Aristarchus of Samos (c. 310 – c. 230 BCE) theorized Earth's rotation around its own axis and the orbit of Earth around the Sun in a heliocentric cosmology. Seleucus of Seleucia (c. 190 – c. 150 BCE) supported his cosmology and also described gravitational effects of the Moon on the tidal range.

The 3rd-century-BCE Greek physicist Archimedes (c. 287 – c. 212 BCE) discovered the centre of mass of a triangle. He also postulated that if the centres of gravity of two equal weights was not the same, it would be located in the middle of the line that joins them. In On Floating Bodies, Archimedes claimed that for any object submerged in a fluid there is an equivalent upward buoyant force to the weight of the fluid displaced by the object's volume. The fluids described by Archimedes are not self-gravitating, since he assumes  that "any fluid at rest is the surface of a sphere whose centre is the same as that of the Earth".

Greek astronomer Hipparchus of Nicaea (c.190 – c. 120 BCE) also rejected Aristotelian physics and followed Strato in adopting some form of theory of impetus to explain motion. The poem De rerum natura by Lucretius (c. 99 – c. 55 BCE) asserts that more massive bodies fall faster in a medium because the latter resists less, but in a vacuum fall with equal speed. Roman engineer and architect Vitruvius (c. 85 – c. 15 BCE) contends in his De architectura that gravity is not dependent on a substance's weight but rather on its 'nature' (cf. specific gravity):

If the quicksilver is poured into a vessel, and a stone weighing one hundred pounds is laid upon it, the stone swims on the surface, and cannot depress the liquid, nor break through, nor separate it. If we remove the hundred pound weight, and put on a scruple of gold, it will not swim, but will sink to the bottom of its own accord. Hence, it is undeniable that the gravity of a substance depends not on the amount of its weight, but on its nature.

Greek philosopher Plutarch () attested the existence of roman astronomers who rejected aristotelian physics, "even contemplating theories of inertia and universal gravitation", and suggested that gravitational attraction was not unique to the Earth. The gravitational effects of the Moon on the tides were noticed by Pliny the Elder (23 – 79 CE) in his Naturalis Historia and Claudius Ptolemy (100 – c. 170 CE) in his Tetrabiblos.

In the 6th century CE, the Byzantine Alexandrian scholar John Philoponus proposed the theory of impetus, which modifies Aristotle's theory that "continuation of motion depends on continued action of a force" by incorporating a causative force which diminishes over time. In his commentary on Aristotle's Physics that "if one lets fall simultaneously from the same height two bodies differing greatly in weight, one will find that the ratio of the times of their motion does not correspond to the ratios of their weights, but the difference in time is a very small one".

Indian subcontinent 

The Indian mathematician/astronomer Brahmagupta (c. 598c. 668 CE) first described gravity as an attractive force, using the term "gurutvākarṣaṇam (गुरुत्वाकर्षणम्)" to describe it:

The earth on all its sides is the same; all people on the earth stand upright, and all heavy things fall down to the earth by a law of nature, for it is the nature of the earth to attract and to keep things, as it is the nature of water to flow ... If a thing wants to go deeper down than the earth, let it try. The earth is the only low thing, and seeds always return to it, in whatever direction you may throw them away, and never rise upwards from the earth.

Another famous Indian mathematician and astronomer Bhaskaracharya II (c. 1114c. 1185) describes gravity as an inherent attractive property of Earth in the section Golādhyāyah (On Spherics) of his treatise Siddhānta Shiromani:

The property of attraction is inherent in the Earth. By this property the Earth attracts any unsupported heavy thing towards it: The thing appears to be falling but it is in a state of being drawn to Earth. ... It is manifest from this that ... people situated at distances of a fourth part of the circumference [of earth] from us or in the opposite hemisphere, cannot by any means fall downwards [in space].

Islamic world

In the 11th century CE, Persian polymath Ibn Sina (Avicenna) agreed with Philoponus' theory that "the moved object acquires an inclination from the mover" as an explanation for projectile motion. Ibn Sina then published his own theory of impetus in The Book of Healing (c. 1020). Unlike Philoponus, who believed that it was a temporary virtue that would decline even in a vacuum, Ibn Sina viewed it as a persistent, requiring external forces such as air resistance to dissipate it. Ibn Sina made distinction between 'force' and 'inclination' (mayl), and argued that an object gained mayl when the object is in opposition to its natural motion. He concluded that continuation of motion is attributed to the inclination that is transferred to the object, and that object will be in motion until the mayl is spent. The Iraqi polymath Ibn al-Haytham describes gravity as a force in which heavier body moves towards the centre of the earth.He also describes  the force of gravity will only move towards the direction of the centre of the earth not in different directions.

Another 11th-century Persian polymath, Al-Biruni, proposed that heavenly bodies have mass