# Thomas Hickey (soldier)

Thomas Hickey (died June 28, 1776) was a Continental Army soldier in the American Revolutionary War, and the first person to be executed by the Continental Army for "mutiny, sedition, and treachery".

Born in Ireland, Hickey came to America as a soldier in the British Army and fought as a combat field servant to Major General William Johnson in the Seven Years' War.  He later joined the Patriot cause when the American Revolution broke out, and became part of the Life Guard, which protected General George Washington, his staff, and the Continental Army's payroll. Hickey was briefly jailed for passing counterfeit money; during this incarceration, he told another prisoner he was part of a conspiracy. He was later tried and executed for mutiny and sedition against the Continental Army.  Plausible, but unverified, reports suggest that he may have been involved in an assassination plot against Washington in 1776.

Washington made a general announcement:

The unhappy fate of Thomas Hickey, executed this day for mutiny, sedition, and treachery, the General hopes will be a warning to every soldier in the Army to avoid those crimes, and all others, so disgraceful to the character of a soldier, and pernicious to his country, whose pay he receives and bread he eats. And in order to avoid those crimes, the most certain method is to keep out of the temptation of them, and particularly to avoid lewd women, who, by the dying confession of this poor criminal, first led him into practices which ended in an untimely and ignominious death.

Conspiracy

In April 1776, after the conclusion of the Boston campaign, General Washington and the Continental Army marched to New York City and prepared for an anticipated assault on the city by the British Army. The Royal Governor of New York, William Tryon, had been driven out of the city by revolutionary forces and was compelled to seek refuge on a ship in New York Harbor. Nevertheless, the city had many Loyalist residents who favored the British side.

Thomas Hickey was a private in the Commander-in-Chief's Guard, a unit formed on March 12, 1776, to protect George Washington, his official papers, and the Continental Army's cash. That spring, Hickey and another soldier were arrested for passing counterfeit money. While incarcerated in Bridewell prison, Hickey revealed to another prisoner, Isaac Ketchum, (possibly overheard by two others, Isaac and Israel Youngs) that he was part of a wider conspiracy of soldiers who were prepared to defect to the British once the expected invasion came.

Arrested by civilian authorities, Hickey was turned over to the Continental Army for trial. He was court-martialed and found guilty of mutiny and sedition. He was hanged on June 28, 1776, at the corner of Chrystie and Grand Streets before a crowd of 20,000 spectators in New York. Hickey was the only person put on trial for the conspiracy. During the trial, David Mathews, the Mayor of New York City and a Loyalist, was accused of funding the operation to bribe soldiers to join the British. Although the charge was never proven, Mathews and 12 others were briefly imprisoned. The initial plan was alleged to include plans to kidnap Washington, assassinate his officers, and blow up the Continental Army's ammunition magazines. These rumors greatly damaged the reputation of Loyalists throughout the nascent United States.

Military rank
In the transcript of Court Martial for the Trial of Thomas Hickey and Others on June 26, 1776, Hickey is referred to as a "private sentinel" in Washington's Life Guards, under the command of "Maj. Gibbs". There is reason to suspect this transcript is a copy made shortly after the end of the Revolutionary War when many official papers were being copied for preservation. In Harry Ward's George Washington's Enforcers (2006), he gives Hickey's rank as sergeant, and notes that Captain Caleb Gibbs was not promoted to major until June 29, 1778, two years after Hickey's trial. When enlisted soldiers are convicted, it is normal for their punishment to include a reduction to the lowest rank, private. A postwar transcript would explain why Hickey is listed at his lowest rank and Gibbs is identified at his highest rank.

Assassination plot

Washington's headquarters from May to June 1776 was at Richmond Hill, a suburban villa outside the city. Samuel Fraunces, a tavern keeper whose establishment was about two miles away, provided meals for the general and his officers. Washington hired a housekeeper, a 72-year-old widow named Elizabeth Thompson, who worked at Richmond Hill from June 1776 to December 1781.

Although Hickey was jailed for passing counterfeit money, and then charged with sedition and conspiracy while in prison, William Spohn Baker, a late 19th-century Washingtonian, believed that the real reason for his execution was involvement in a plot to kill or kidnap Washington:

Thomas Hickey, one of Washington's Guard, was tried by a court-martial and sentenced to death, being found implicated in a plot to murder the American general officers on the arrival of the British, or at best to capture Washington and deliver him to Sir William Howe. The plot had been traced to Governor Tryon, the mayor (David Mathews) having been a principal agent between him and the persons concerned in it.

Baker was wrong about the specific crimes of which Hickey was convicted, but in 1776 there was a real rumor of an assassination plot:

Two other contemporaneous references to an assassination plot have been published. A garbled account of an assassination attempt appeared over two years later in a provincial English newspaper, The Ipswich Journal, on October 31, 1778:

Advise is received from America that two persons, a man and a woman who lived as servants with General Washing ton , have been executed in the presence of the army for conspiring to poison their master.

Fraunces' petition to Congress

In a March 5, 1785, sworn petition to the U.S. Congress, Samuel Fraunces claimed that it was he who discovered the assassination plot, that he was falsely accused of being part of it and was jailed until his name was cleared. He wrote (in the third person):

That he [Fraunces] was the Person that first discovered the Conspiracy which was formed in the Year 1776 against the Life of his Excellency General Washington and that the Suspicions Which were Entertained of his agency in that Important Discovery occasioned [sic, occasioned] a public Enquiry after he was made a Prisoner on which the want of positive Proof alone preserved his Life.

Congress' response to Fraunces' petition downplayed the plot but accepted his role as "instrumental in discovering and defeating" it. For debts incurred during the Revolutionary War, Congress awarded him £2000, a later payment covered accumulated interest, and Congress paid $1,625 to lease his tavern for two years to house federal government offices.

Phoebe Fraunces legend
Martha Washington's grandson, George Washington Parke Custis, died in 1857. Two years later, his daughter, Mary Anna Custis Lee, published his memoirs, to which were added extended notes by the antiquarian Benson J. Lossing. One of these notes told the story of an attempt by Hickey to poison Washington:

When Washington and his army occupied the city, in the summer of 1776, the chief resided at Richmond Hill, a little out of town, afterward the seat of Aaron Burr. [Samuel] Fraunces's daughter was Washington's housekeeper, and she saved his life on one occasion, by exposing the intentions of Hickey, one of the Life-Guard (already mentioned), who was about to murder the general, by putting poison in a dish of peas prepared for his table.

Custis' actual memoirs did not contain the story—it was added by Lossing—but this distinction is easy for the reader to miss. Lossing repeated the story in an 1870 book, claiming that Washington's housekeeper had testified at Hickey's court-martial:

Lossing's information was third-hand (as he freely admitted). This story is undermined by the trial minutes of Hickey's court-martial, which contain no housekeeper's testimony. In the January 1876 issue of Scribner's Monthly, John F. Mines repeated Lossing's story and identified the housekeeper. This was more than 99 years after Hickey's execution and was the first time that the name "Phoebe Fraunces" appeared in print. Mines listed no sources for the magazine article. It was nationally read in the patriotic build-up to the 1876 Centennial celebration:

A daughter of "Black Sam", Phoebe Fraunces, was Washington's housekeeper when he had his headquarters in New York in the spring of 1776, and was the means of defeating a conspiracy against his life. Its immediate agent was to be Thomas Hickey, a deserter from the British army, who had become a member of Washington's bodyguard, and had made himself a general favorite at headquarters. Fortunately, the would-be conspirator fell desperately in love with Phoebe Fraunces, and made her his confidant. She revea