[The Descent of Man — Darwin — Gutenberg #28846]

SUN was up bright and early. He shone on the Sunny Meadow and lighted up the dark places in the Shady Forest. He even poked a sunbeam in the eye of Parson Owl, who winked and blinked and turned the other way. Soon everybody was wide awake, for the Little People of the Shady Forest and the Sunny Meadow are always up with Mr. Merry Sun. Little Jack Rabbit, looking out of the Old Bramble Patch, wondered who was bending over the tall grass in the corner of the Old Rail Fence. Shading his eyes with his right paw, he looked again. Yes, it was the Farmer's Boy. Pretty soon he stood up straight, holding his hat carefully in his hand. Then he turned with a whistle and walked home. "I wonder what he's been up to?" thought Little Jack Rabbit, and, being a curious little bunny, he hopped over to find out. Carefully peeping through the tall grass he saw a nice round nest, but it was empty. Only a gray speckled feather was left. "He's stolen the eggs!" cried the little rabbit. "He's just mean enough to steal eggs!" [Illustration: "Did You Steal My Eggs?" Cried Henny Penny. _Little Jack Rabbit's Adventures._ _Page 43_] Just then Henny Penny came across the Sunny Meadow. She was a very pretty gray speckled hen and lived in a little house by the Big Red Barn. But instead of laying her nice white eggs in the comfortable nests in the Henhouse, she came all the way over to the Old Rail Fence Corner. But Little Jack Rabbit didn't know that. He didn't know whose nest it was until Henny Penny cried distractedly, "Who has stolen my eggs? Did you, Little Jack Rabbit?" "Is it your nest?" he gasped, so startled that he asked a question instead of answering one. "Of course it's mine," replied Henny Penny, looking at him as if she meant to peck his little pink eyes right out of his head. "But answer my question. Did you take my eggs?" "Of course not," said the little rabbit. "I saw the hired boy leave here a few minutes ago with his hat in his hands. Maybe he took them." "Cock-a-doodle-do, What can I do for you?" asked a beautiful big rooster, all of a sudden, just like that. "O Cocky Doodle!" cried Henny Penny, "my nest has been robbed. Let's tell the Kind Farmer that the hired boy has stolen my eggs." AT THE FARM "ALL right, come along," said Cocky Doodle, and he started back for the Old Farm, followed by Henny Penny and the little bunny. "Where are you going?" called out Mrs. Rabbit from the Old Bramble Patch. "I'm going over to the Old Farm with Henny Penny and Cocky Doodle," answered her little bunny boy. "You'd better be careful," said his mother, "the farmer might catch you." "I don't think so, Mrs. Rabbit," said Cocky Doodle; "he's a very kind farmer." Mrs. Rabbit smiled, as if she only half believed the little rooster. Then she turned to her little rabbit boy and said, "Keep a bright lookout, and don't forget you're only a small bunny." After that away went the three little people, Cocky Doodle, with his bright red comb, and Henny Penny in her pretty gray speckled feathers, and Little Jack Rabbit, in his fur waistcoat, white as the big clouds that chased Mr. Merry Sun over the bright blue sky. "Who is this little bunny?" asked Turkey Tim when they all came to the Farm Yard. "Don't you know?" answered Henny Penny. "Why, he's the little rabbit who colors the Easter Eggs!" "What!" cried a big fat goose. "This is Little Jack Rabbit," said Cocky Doodle. "Pleased to meet you," said Goosey Lucy. "Do you paint goose eggs, too?" But before the little bunny could say yes or no, the Kind Farmer himself came out of the house. "Why, look who's here," he said with a smile. And such a kind smile that Little Jack Rabbit wasn't the least bit afraid. "He saw the hired boy steal the eggs from my nest in the corner of the Old Rail Fence," cried Henny Penny. "Ha, ha!" laughed the Kind Farmer. "So that's where you've been laying your eggs, is it, Miss Henny Penny?" "Cock-a-doodle-do, She only laid a few. But after this she'll lay the rest Within the little wooden nest You hung upon the Henhouse wall, And tell you with her cackle-call," said the little rooster, for Henny Penny was too ashamed to speak. Then the Weathercock whirled around on his big toe and, pointing at the little hen, shouted through his tin megaphone: "Why don't you stay at home and lay, And not go calling every day? I never leave my perch up here No matter what the atmosphere." COLORED EGGS "I OFTEN wondered why she went across the Sunny Meadow every day," said Ducky Waddles. "It's too long a walk for me!" "Yes, you wabble too much!" said Henny Penny. "That's because I've little thin pieces of skin between my toes," answered Ducky Waddles. "My feet are too wide and flat for walking, but they make splendid paddles." "Come, come," interrupted the Kind Farmer. "Henny Penny hasn't explained why she goes over to the Sunny Meadow to lay her eggs instead of in the nice nests in the Henhouse." "Because I wanted Little Jack Rabbit to color them for Easter," she answered. "I thought if I laid them near the Old Bramble Patch it would be easier for him." "Oh, that's the reason?" said the Kind Farmer. "And pray, Mr. Jack Rabbit, how do you color the eggs?" Oh, dear me! Wasn't the little rabbit embarrassed! He wasn't sure but what he'd better hop back to the Old Bramble Patch. Perhaps, too, he was a little bit afraid of the big Kind Farmer. "I never colored any eggs," answered the little rabbit in a low voice, "but I've often helped mother color them. She takes a big red rose and rubs it over an egg until it turns red. With a buttercup she makes a yellow one. From the violets by the Bubbling Brook she gets a beautiful purple color, and from the wild roses a lovely pink tint. Just every-day grass gives a dandy green color." "Ha, ha," laughed the big Kind Farmer, "so that's what the rabbits do on Easter, is it?" and he turned away and went into the Big Red Barn to feed the horses. "I guess it's time for me to be going," said Little Jack Rabbit. "Mother may worry if I stay away too long!" "What's your hurry?" said Ducky Waddles. "Goodby," said Henny Penny. "Come again," said Cocky Doodle. "Come very soon," said Turkey Tim. "Call tomorrow," cried Goosey Lucy. But the little rabbit was out of hearing by this time, and just as Mr. Merry Sun went down behind the West Hill, he hopped into the Old Bramble Patch. "Come, wash your hands; supper is ready," said Mrs. Rabbit, as she took the carrot muffins out of the oven and dished the stewed lollypops. HENNY PENNY'S MISTAKE THERE was great excitement at the Old Barn Yard. A big mistake had been made. Whose fault it was no one could tell; but the fact was that Henny Penny had hatched out a brood of ducklings. At first nobody thought anything was wrong, except that, perhaps, her little brood had very large bills and feet, much larger than those of any little chicks at the farm. But one day when the whole brood waddled off down to the Old Duck Pond and jumped in everybody knew that Henny Penny had little ducks and not little chickens. Poor little Henny Penny! She stood upon the bank and clucked and clucked to them to come back. "You'll be drowned, my darlings!" she cried. But the little ducks threw out their great brown feet as cleverly as if they had taken swimming lessons all their lives and sailed off on the Old Duck Pond, away, away among the ferns, under the pink azaleas, through reeds and rushes and arrowheads and pickerel weed, the happiest ducks that ever were born. And soon they were quite out of sight. Poor little Henny Penny. She didn't know how to swim, so she sat down on the bank and waited for her little ducks to come back. Now and then she wiped her eyes on her downy breast feathers. "Don't cry," said Cocky Doodle kindly. "Don't worry," said Rosy Comb. "Your children seem to know how to swim as well as Ducky Waddles." Just then across the Old Duck Pond came a chorus of quacks, and at a distance was seen the little brood swimming home, their feathers gleaming in green and gold. "Such a splendid time we've had," they all cried as they waddled up the bank. "And we know now how to get our own living, for there are lots of little fish and flies out there on the Old Duck Pond. We can take care of ourselves, so don't worry any more about us, Mother Henny Penny." "They are little ducks, not chickens," said Ducky Waddles. "Are you sure?" asked Henny Penny tearfully, wiping her eyes with a tiny yellow handkerchief. "Of course I am," replied Ducky Waddles. "Don't I know a duck's foot when I see it?" "Dear, Oh dear!" sighed the poor little hen, "there has been a dreadful mistake!" But whose mistake it was no one could tell, for the Kind Farmer never confessed that he put duck eggs in Henny Penny's nest. THE DAM THE Bubbling Brook was slowly drying up. Everyone on the Sunny Meadow was worried, and the little people who lived in the water were even more worried. It was just like having one's house pulled down while living in it. You see, as the water became more shallow there were places in the little brook that were hardly covered with water, and it was only in the deep holes that the fish and crabs could swim at all. And the cause of all this was Busy Beaver. Yes, sir. Busy Beaver was building a dam across the Bubbling Brook. Somehow he knew that winter was coming, when it would be all frozen over. But he knew that if he built a dam across it, a little pond would form where the water would be too deep to freeze clear down to the bottom. "I'll leave a little opening in the dam to let the water run out when it gets high enough," said Busy Beaver to himself as he laid mud and stones on top of a log. If the Little People of the Sunny Meadow had only heard him they wouldn't