# Begomovirus

Begomovirus is a genus of viruses, in the family Geminiviridae. They are plant viruses that as a group have a very wide host range, infecting dicotyledonous plants. Worldwide they are responsible for a considerable amount of economic damage to many important crops such as tomatoes, beans, squash, cassava and cotton. There are 445 species in this genus.

Morphology
Virus particles are non-enveloped. The nucleocapsid is 38 nanometers (nm) long and 15–22 nm in diameter. While particles have basic icosahedral symmetry, they consist of two incomplete icosahedra—missing one vertex—joined together. There are 22 capsomeres per nucleocapsid.

Genome
Single stranded closed circular DNA. Many begomoviruses have a bipartite genome: this means that the genome is segmented into two segments (referred to as DNA A and DNA B) that are packaged into separate particles. Both segments are generally required for successful symptomatic infection in a host cell but DNA B is dependent for its replication upon DNA A, which can in some begomoviruses apparently cause normal infections on its own.

The DNA A segment typically encodes five to six proteins including replication protein Rep, coat protein and transport and/or regulatory proteins. This component is homologous to the genomes of all other geminiviruses. The proteins encoded on it are required for replication (Rep), control of gene expression, overcoming host defenses, encapsidation (coat protein) and insect transmission. The DNA B segment encodes two different movement proteins. These proteins have functions in intra- and intercellular movement in host plants.

The A and B components share little sequence identity with the exception of a ~200 nucleotide sequence with typically >85% identity known as the common region. This region includes an absolutely conserved (among geminiviruses) hairpin structure and repeated sequences (known as 'iterons') that are the recognition sequences for binding of the replication protein (Rep). Within this loop there is a nonanucleotide sequence (TAATATTAC) that acts as the origin (ori) of virion strand DNA replication.

Component exchange (pseudorecombination) occurs in this genus. The usual mechanism of pseudorecombination is by a process known as 'regulon grafting': the A component donates its common region by recombination to the B component being captured. This results in a new dependent interaction between two components.

The proteins in this genus may lie either on the sense strand (positive orientation) or its complement (negative orientation).

Genes
Segment A
V1 (R1)—positive orientation: Coat protein—29.7 kiloDaltons (kDa)
V2—positive orientation: Movement protein (precoat ORF)—12.8 kDa
C1 (L1)—negative orientation: Replication initiation protein (Rep)—40.2 kDa
C2: (L2)—negative orientation: Transcription activator protein (TrAP)—19.6 kDa
C3: (L3)—negative orientation: Replication enhancer—15.6 kDa
C4:—negative orientation: May determine symptom expression—12.0 kDa
Segment B
V1 (R1)—positive orientation: Nuclear shuttle protein—33.1 kDa
C1 (L1)—negative orientation: Movement protein—29.6 kDa

Virology
Smaller than unit length virus components—deletion mutants—are common in infections. These are known as defective interfering (di) DNAs due to their capacity to interfere with virus infection. They reduce virus DNA levels and symptom severity.

Phylogenetics
The two components of the genome have very distinct molecular evolutionary histories and likely to be under very different evolutionary pressures. The DNA B genome originated as a satellite that was captured by the monopartite progenitor of all extant bipartite begomoviruses and has subsequently evolved to become an essential genome component.

More than 133 begomovirus species having monopartite genomes are known: all originate from the Old World. No monopartite begomoviruses native to the New World have yet been identified.

Phylogenetic analysis is based on the A component. B components may be exchanged between species and may result in new species.

Analysis of the genus reveals a number of clades. The main division is between the Old and New World strains. The Old World strains can be divided into African, Indian, Japanese and other Asian clades with a small number of strains grouping outside these. The New World strains divide into Central and Southern America strains.

Along with these main groupings are a number of smaller clades. One group infecting a range of legumes originating from India and Southeast Asia (informally 'Legumovirus') and a set of viruses isolated from Ipomoea species originating from America, Asia and Europe (informally 'Sweepovirus') appear to be basal to all the other species. Two species isolated from Corchorus from Vietnam (informally 'Corchovirus') somewhat unexpectedly group with the New World species.

Transmission

The virus is obligately transmitted by an insect vector, which can be the whitefly Bemisia tabaci or can be other whiteflies.  This vector allows rapid and efficient propagation of the virus because it is an indiscriminate feeder. The vector transmits in a persistent, circulative, non-propagative manner.

This USDA document describes a 5-year plan starting in 1992 to mitigate whiteflies.

Diseases
Several begomoviruses cause severe diseases all over the world. Those begomovirus species infecting tomato such as Tomato yellow leaf curl virus (TYLCV) and Tomato yellow mosaic virus (ToYMV), first identified in the late 1980s, cause significant economic losses worldwide. In countries where these viruses have become widespread such as Trinidad, the Dominican Republic, Mexico and much of Central America, Israel, as well as across Southeast Asia including Thailand, Cambodia, Indonesia, and India, these diseases in tomato and other crops including pepper, and eggplant, can cause an estimated yield loss of 50–60%. Begomoviruses infecting pepper (Capsicum spp.) such as Pepper leaf curl virus and Chilli leaf curl virus also cause significant losses worldwide. Disease is typically manifested in the infected plant as chlorosis, leaf distortion, flower bud absicion and crinkling and stunting. In countries where these viruses have become widespread across Southeast Asia including Thailand, Cambodia, Indonesia, Sri Lanka, and India, these diseases in pepper and other crops including tomato, cucumber, pumpkin, melon, and eggplant, can cause an estimated yield loss of 40–70%.  Bean golden yellow mosaic virus (BGYMV) causes a serious disease in bean species within Central America, the Caribbean and southern Florida.

Species

Abutilon golden mosaic virus
Abutilon mosaic Bolivia virus
Abutilon mosaic Brazil virus
Abutilon mosaic virus
African cassava mosaic Burkina Faso virus
African cassava mosaic virus
Ageratum enation virus
Ageratum leaf curl Sichuan virus
Ageratum leaf curl virus
Ageratum yellow vein Hualian virus
Ageratum yellow vein Sri Lanka virus
Ageratum yellow vein virus
Allamanda leaf curl virus
Allamanda leaf mottle distortion virus
Alternanthera yellow vein virus
Andrographis yellow vein leaf curl virus
Asystasia mosaic Madagascar virus
Bean bushy stunt virus
Bean calico mosaic virus
Bean chlorosis virus
Bean dwarf mosaic virus
Bean golden mosaic virus
Bean golden yellow mosaic virus
Bean latent virus
Bean leaf crumple virus
Bean white chlorosis mosaic virus
Bean yellow mosaic Mexico virus
Bhendi yellow vein Bhubhaneswar virus
Bhendi yellow vein Haryana virus
Bhendi yellow vein mosaic Delhi virus
Bhendi yellow vein mosaic virus
Bitter gourd yellow mosaic virus
Blainvillea yellow spot virus
Blechum interveinal chlorosis virus
Blechum yellow vein virus
Boerhavia yellow spot virus
Cabbage leaf curl Jamaica virus
Cabbage leaf curl virus
Capraria yellow spot virus
Cassava mosaic Madagascar virus
Catharanthus yellow mosaic virus
Centrosema yellow spot virus
Chayote yellow mosaic virus
Chenopodium leaf curl virus
Chilli leaf curl Ahmedabad virus
Chilli leaf curl Bhavanisagar virus
Chilli leaf curl Gonda virus
Chilli leaf curl India virus
Chilli leaf curl Kanpur virus
Chilli leaf curl Sri Lanka virus
Chilli leaf curl Vellanad virus
Chilli leaf curl virus
Chino del tomate Amazonas virus
Chino del tomate virus
Cleome golden mosaic virus
Cleome leaf crumple virus
Clerodendron golden mosaic virus
Clerodendron yellow mosaic virus
Clerodendrum golden mosaic China virus
Clerodendrum golden mosaic Jiangsu virus
Cnidoscolus mosaic leaf deformation virus
Coccinia mosaic Tamil Nadu virus
Common bean mottle virus
Common bean severe mosaic virus
Corchorus golden mosaic virus
Corchorus yellow spot virus
Corchorus yellow vein Cuba virus
Corchorus yellow vein mosaic virus
Corchorus yellow vein virus
Cotton chlorotic spot virus
Cotton leaf crumple virus
Cotton leaf curl Alabad virus
Cotton leaf curl Bangalore virus
Cotton leaf curl Barasat virus
Cotton leaf curl Gezira virus
Cotton leaf curl Kokhran virus
Cotton leaf curl Multan virus
Cotton yellow mosaic virus
Cowpea bright yellow mosaic v