[Evolution and Ethics — Huxley — Gutenberg #38775]

Produced by Michael Gray, Diocese of San Jose ALTEMUS' BEAUTIFUL STORIES SERIES THE FIRST EASTER BY J. H. WILLARD ILLUSTRATED PHILADELPHIA HENRY ALTEMUS COMPANY Altemus' Illustrated Beautiful Stories Series THE FIRST CHRISTMAS. THE FIRST EASTER. ONCE IN SEVEN YEARS. The Story of the Jubilee WITH HAMMER AND NAIL. The Story of Jael and Sisera FIVE KINGS IN A CAVE. The Story of a Great Battle THE WISEST MAN. The Story of Solomon A FARMER'S WIFE. The Story of Ruth THE MAN WHO DID NOT DIE. The Story of Elijah WHEN IRON DID SWIM. The Story of Elisha WHAT IS SWEETER THAN HONEY. The Story of Samson Copyright, 1906 By Henry Altemus [Illustration: TWO ANGELS.] THE FIRST EASTER IN the story of The First Easter, as in the story of The First Christmas, there is much that is hard to understand, but if we review somewhat the Blessed Life of Jesus, we shall better appreciate the glorious significance of the day. Jesus had passed through His human life, everywhere uttering words of pity, and stretching out hands of mercy. To suffer was to have a claim upon Him. He had not used His supernatural powers for His own benefit, but for the good of others. He employed them freely, helping, comforting, healing, blessing, wherever He went. [Illustration: "HELPING, COMFORTING, HEALING, BLESSING."] Shepherds, led by angels, were the first witnesses of Jesus' birth. His boyhood was spent at Nazareth, and was entirely without sin. He studied the Old Testament Scriptures in the synagogues, but in no way did He become identified with the Pharisees or their instructions, yet when He began His ministry He was able to teach with authority. Jesus was baptized by John, who was only six months older than himself, and then, after successfully resisting the temptations of an evil spirit, He began to exercise His higher powers and gifts, thus entering upon His public activity. The life of Jesus was a wandering one during His short ministry on earth. He visited Jerusalem twice, Samaria once, Nazareth once, and Capernaum several times, besides pausing on the banks of the Jordan, and traveling from place to place in Galilee. He said of Himself, that He had not _"where to lay His head."_ It is thought that Jesus wore the usual dress of a rabbi, or teacher; a blue robe worn over a long undergarment of white, or pale gray striped with crimson; a covering of folded linen to protect His head, and sandals for His feet. Many beautiful incidents in the life of Jesus occurred between the time of the first manifestation of His miraculous powers at Cana, where He turned water into wine at a wedding feast, and the calling of the Twelve Apostles. On one of His visits to Capernaum Jesus was surrounded by sick and helpless people, and He healed them all; made them well and strong and happy. With heavy burdens lifted, and sorrowful hearts cheered, the little town slept; but Jesus set out before daylight, and, reaching a solitary place on a mountain, prayed to His Father, God. Then from village to village, Jesus carried His message and ministry of Love. One day a poor leper came to Him. Jesus touched him, and he was a leper no more. Not long, after this--again at Capernaum, four men carried a paralyzed cripple on a litter to the house where Jesus was teaching. The crowd about the door was so great that they could not enter, so they lifted their burden onto the flat roof of the house, and having made an opening, lowered the sick man, still on his litter, into the room where Jesus was. _"Son, thy sins be forgiven thee,"_ said Jesus, _"I say unto thee, arise, and take up thy bed, and go thy way into thine house."_ Instantly cured the man departed, carrying his litter as he had been commanded. The following Sabbath day Jesus publicly healed a man in the synagogue, whose hand was withered and powerless. The unbelieving rabbis, and others who were present, were so angry at Him for doing this, that in their hatred and malice they consulted with the supporters of the Roman government, whom they usually regarded as enemies, as to the surest way of bringing about His death. Then came the calling of the men whom Jesus named the Apostles. They were twelve in number and became associated in new and peculiar relations to Him. It was also the first step towards a regular method of spreading far and wide His blessed teachings. [Illustration: JESUS AND HIS APOSTLES.] Following the choosing of the Apostles, Jesus gave to the crowds who flocked to hear Him that beautiful address, which we call "The Sermon on the Mount," and after this he performed many more wonderful cures and miracles, and taught the people by means of parables or stories that they could understand. [Illustration: THE SERMON ON THE MOUNT.] In the little village of Bethany was a humble home which Jesus often visited. The family consisted of a man named Lazarus and his two sisters, Martha and Mary. Lazarus was taken sick, and died. Jesus was greatly affected by his death, for he dearly loved him. Lazarus had been in the tomb for three days before Jesus appeared at the home of the sisters, but he at once went to the tomb of his friend, and called out to him to _"come forth,"_ and the man who had been dead for three days arose sound and well. [Illustration: "THE MAN WHO HAD BEEN DEAD AROSE."] After the raising of Lazarus from the dead, many of the leading rabbis of Jerusalem, dreading the growing influence of Jesus over the people, and perhaps persuading themselves that it might lead to a revolt against the Roman government, brought all their power against Him. A council was hurriedly called; the acting high-priest that year presided, and it was formally decided to put Jesus to death. The only point to be considered was the easiest way of accomplishing their purpose. Jesus knew the malice in their hearts, and went away to a lonely village called Ephraim. Here He remained until He made his last journey to Jerusalem. While on this journey, certain mothers brought their little ones to Jesus, in the hope that He might touch them, and were rebuked by the Apostles for doing so. When Jesus heard the rebuke, He lifted the little ones tenderly in His arms, and fondly blessed them, saying, _"Suffer little children to come unto me, and forbid them, not: for of such is the kingdom of God."_ As Jesus pursued His way to Jerusalem, the roads were thronged with people going there to keep the Passover, and among the crowds were many beggars. The way led by Jericho, and close by the entrance to the city sat one of those beggars, a blind man named Bartimeus. Hearing some one in the crowd say that Jesus of Nazareth was passing by, Bartimeus called loudly for help. In vain the people bade him be silent; he only repeated his cries more loudly. Jesus listened, stopped, called the man to him, and asked, _"What wilt thou that I should do unto thee?"_ The blind man answered eagerly, _"Lord, that I might receive my sight,"_ and immediately he received it. On the afternoon of Friday, the eighth day of the Hebrew month Nisan, Jesus' once more reached the friendly home at Bethany, and there, where His welcome was always sure, He spent His last Sabbath upon earth. In the evening, He and His Apostles attended a feast at the house of a friend of Martha and Mary, a man named Simon who had once been a leper, and was not unlikely indebted to Jesus for his cure. Lazarus, who had been dead but was now alive again, was also present. During the meal, Mary anointed Jesus' feet with a perfume of the costliest kind. Some of the Apostles, led by Judas Iscariot, objected to this on the ground that it was wasteful; but Jesus reproved them, declaring that wherever the Gospel should be preached throughout the world, Mary's act of devotion should _"be spoken of for a memorial of her."_ [Illustration: MARY ANOINTED JESUS' FEET.] The news of Jesus' arrival at Bethany soon reached Jerusalem, and caused His enemies to plan for the destruction of Lazarus, also, because his restoration to life had made such an impression on the people. On the next day--the Jewish Monday, which we commemorate as "Palm Sunday"--Jesus entered Jerusalem. It was the custom for pilgrims to enter that city for the Passover in orderly processions, with music, and carrying banners. As there was no longer any need to restrain the ardor of the people Jesus prepared to conform to the custom. Following His instructions two of His disciples found at Bethpage, a village close by, a young animal which had never carried or drawn a burden. From very early times such animals had been chosen for sacred purposes. It was on this colt, with the mantles of the disciples thrown over it, that Jesus rode attended by a great multitude, who spread their garments and branches plucked from trees in the way. Between the vineyards, orchards, and olive gardens that bordered the road, the procession wound slowly along, welcomed by glad throngs that had poured out of Jerusalem to meet it, shouting, _"Hosanna! Blessed is the King of Israel that cometh in the name of the Lord!"_ Crossing the bridge over "the brook Kidron," Jesus entered Jerusalem. [Illustration: THE BROOK KIDRON. _From a Photograph._] Pilgrims were not allowed to go beyond the foot of Mount Moriah without purification, according to the Jewish ceremonial law. At this place the crowd dispersed, and Jesus, first removing His sandals, entered the Temple alone. As the day was drawing to a close, He staid there but a short time, and then returned to Bethany. But the next morning, Jesus was back in Jerusalem, and once more he expelled the merchants and money-changers from the Temple courts. Then the blind, and lame, and all who needed bodily relief surrounded Him, and He healed them willingly. The angry priests and rabbis would have seized Him if they had not feared the excited crowd, and so the day passed on, Jesus returning to the cottage at Bethany at its close, only to return to the city the next morning. The opportunity for which the enemies of Jesus were watching so eagerly came at last. One of His own trusted disciples went to the chief priests, asking what they would give him to betray his Master. His name was Judas Iscariot, or Judas of Kerioth, a little village in the south of Judea. The priests received Judas gladly, and agreed to pay him