[The Expression of Emotions in Man and Animals — Darwin — Gutenberg #14363]

his lifelong friend. Beneath the head of his bag, between the bag and the floor-cloth, was the green wallet in which he carried his diary. The brown books of diary were inside: and on the floor-cloth were some letters. Everything was tidy. The tent had been pitched as well as ever, with the door facing down the sastrugi, the bamboos with a good spread, the tent itself taut and shipshape. There was no snow inside the inner lining. There were some loose pannikins from the cooker, the ordinary tent gear, the personal belongings and a few more letters and records--personal and scientific. Near Scott was a lamp formed from a tin and some lamp wick off a finnesko. It had been used to burn the little methylated spirit which remained. I think that Scott had used it to help him to write up to the end. I feel sure that he had died last--and once I had thought that he would not go so far as some of the others. We never realized how strong that man was, mentally and physically, until now. We sorted out the gear, records, papers, diaries, spare clothing, letters, chronometers, finnesko, socks, a flag. There was even a book which I had lent Bill for the journey--and he had brought it back. Somehow we learnt that Amundsen had been to the Pole, and that they too had been to the Pole, and both items of news seemed to be of no importance whatever. There was a letter there from Amundsen to King Haakon. There were the personal chatty little notes we had left for them on the Beardmore--how much more important to us than all the royal letters in the world. We dug down the bamboo which had brought us to this place. It led to the sledge, many feet down, and had been rigged there as a mast. And on the sledge were some more odds and ends--a piece of paper from the biscuit box: Bowers' meteorological log: and the geological specimens, thirty pounds of them, all of the first importance. Drifted over also were the harnesses, ski and ski-sticks. Hour after hour, so it seemed to me, Atkinson sat in our tent and read. The finder was to read the diary and then it was to be brought home--these were Scott's instructions written on the cover. But Atkinson said he was only going to read sufficient to know what had happened--and after that they were brought home unopened and unread. When he had the outline we all gathered together and he read to us the Message to the Public, and the account of Oates' death, which Scott had expressly wished to be known. We never moved them. We took the bamboos of the tent away, and the tent itself covered them. And over them we built the cairn. I do not know how long we were there, but when all was finished, and the chapter of Corinthians had been read, it was midnight of some day. The sun was dipping low above the Pole, the Barrier was almost in shadow. And the sky was blazing--sheets and sheets of iridescent clouds. The cairn and Cross stood dark against a glory of burnished gold. * * * * * _Copy of Note left at the Cairn, over the Bodies_ _November 12th, 1912._ Lat. 79° 50´ S. This Cross and Cairn are erected over the bodies of Capt. Scott, C.V.O., R.N.; Dr. E. A. Wilson, M.B., B.A. Cantab.; Lt. H. R. Bowers, Royal Indian Marines. A slight token to perpetuate their gallant and successful attempt to reach the Pole. This they did on the 17th January 1912 after the Norwegian expedition had already done so. Inclement weather and lack of fuel was the cause of their death. Also to commemorate their two gallant comrades, Capt. L. E. G. Oates of the Inniskilling Dragoons, who walked to his death in a blizzard to save his comrades, about 18 miles south of this position; also of Seaman Edgar Evans, who died at the foot of the Beardmore Glacier. The Lord gave and the Lord taketh away. Blessed be the name of the Lord. Relief Expedition. (Signed by all members of the party.) My diary goes on: _Midnight, November 12-13._ I cannot think that anything which could be done to give these three great men--for great they were--a fitting grave has been left undone. A great cairn has been built over them, a mark which must last for many years. That we can make anything that will be permanent on this Barrier is impossible, but as far as a lasting mark can be made it has been done. On this a cross has been fixed, made out of ski. On either side are the two sledges, fixed upright and dug in. The whole is very simple and most impressive. On a bamboo standing by itself is left the record which I have copied into this book, and which has been signed by us all. We shall leave some provisions here, and go on lightly laden to see if we can find Titus Oates' body: and so give it what burial we can. We start in about an hour, and I for one shall be glad to leave this place. I am very very sorry that this question of the shortage of oil has arisen. We in the First Return Party were most careful with our measurement--having a ruler of Wright's and a piece of bamboo with which we did it: measuring the total height of oil in each case, and then dividing up the stick accordingly with the ruler: and we were _always_ careful to take _a little less than we were entitled to_, which was stated to me, and stated by Birdie in his depôt notes, to be one-third of everything in the depôt. How the shortage arose is a mystery. And they eleven miles from One Ton and plenty! Titus did not show his foot till about three days before he died. The foot was then a great size, and almost every night it would be frost-bitten again. Then the last day at lunch he said he could go on no more--but they said he must: he wanted them to leave him behind in his bag. That night he turned in, hoping never to wake: but he woke, and then he asked their advice: they said they must all go on together. A thick blizzard was blowing, and he said, after a bit, "Well, I am just going outside, and I may be some time." They searched for him but could not find him. They had a terrible time from 80° 30´ on to their last camp. There Bill was very bad, and Birdie and the Owner had to do the camping. And then, eleven miles from plenty, they had _nine days of blizzard, and that was the end._ They had a good spread on their tent, and their ski-sticks were standing, but their ski were drifted up on the ground. The tent was in excellent condition--only down some of the poles there were some chafes. They had been trying a spirit lamp when all the oil was gone. At 88° or so they were getting temperatures from -20° to -30°. At 82°, 10,000 feet lower, it was regularly down to -47° in the night-time, and -30° during the day: for no explainable reason. Bill's and Birdie's feet got bad--the Owner's feet got bad last. It is all too horrible--I am almost afraid to go to sleep now. _November 13. Early morning._ We came on just under seven miles with a very cold moist wind hurting our faces all the way. We have left most of the provisions to pick up again. We purpose going on thirteen miles to-morrow and search for Oates' body, and then turn back and get the provisions back to Hut Point and see what can be done over in the west to get up that coast. We hope to get two mules back to Hut Point. If possible, we want to communicate with Cape Evans. Atkinson has been quite splendid in this very trying time. _November 14. Early morning._ It has been a miserable march. We had to wait some time after hoosh to let the mules get ahead. Then we went on in a cold raw fog and some head wind, with constant frost-bites. The surface has been very bad all day for the thirteen miles: if we had been walking in arrowroot it would have been much like this was. At lunch the temperature was -14.7°. Then on when it was drifting with the wind in our faces and in a bad light. What we took to be the mule party ahead proved to be the old pony walls 26 miles from One Ton. There was here a bit of sacking on the cairn, and Oates' bag. Inside the bag was the theodolite, and his finnesko and socks. One of the finnesko was slit down the front as far as the leather beckets, evidently to get his bad foot into it. This was fifteen miles from the last camp, and I suppose they had brought on his bag for three or four miles in case they might find him still alive. Half-a-mile from our last camp there was a very large and quite unmistakable undulation, one-quarter to one-third of a mile from crest to crest: the pony walls behind us disappeared almost as soon as we started to go down, and reappeared again on the other side. There were, I feel sure, other rolls, but this was the largest. We have seen no sign of Oates' body. About half an hour ago it started to blow a blizzard, and it is now thick, but the wind is not strong. The mules, which came along well considering the surface, are off their feed, and this may be the reason. Dimitri saw the Cairn with the Cross more than eight miles away this morning, and in a good light it would be seen from much farther off. _November 15. Early morning._ We built a cairn to mark the spot near which Oates walked out to his death, and we placed a cross on it. Lashed to the cross is a record, as follows: Hereabouts died a very gallant gentleman, Captain L. E. G. Oates of the Inniskilling Dragoons. In March 1912, returning from the Pole, he walked willingly to his death in a blizzard to try and save his comrades, beset by hardship. This note is left by the Relief Expedition. 1912. This was signed by Atkinson and myself. We saw the cairn for a long way in a bad light as we came back to-day. The original plan with which we