Biology Research Paper

Title: Integrating single‐cell RNA sequencing with spatial transcriptomics reveals an immune landscape of human myometrium during labour

Abstract:
BACKGROUND: The transition of the myometrium from a quiescent to a contractile state during labour is known to involve inflammation, which is characterized by the infiltration of immune cells and the secretion of cytokines. However, the specific cellular mechanisms underlying inflammation in the myometrium during human parturition are not yet fully understood. METHODS: Through the analysis of transcriptomics, proteomics, and cytokine arrays, the inflammation in the human myometrium during labour was revealed. By performing single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) and spatiotemporal transcriptomic (ST) analyses on human myometrium in term in labour (TIL) and term in non-labour (TNL), we established a comprehensive landscape of immune cells, their transcriptional characteristics, distribution, function and intercellular communications during labour. Histological staining, flow cytometry, and western blotting were applied to validate some results from scRNA-seq and ST. RESULTS: Our analysis identified immune cell types, including monocytes, neutrophils, T cells, natural killer (NK) cells and B cells, present in the myometrium. TIL myometrium had a higher proportion of monocytes and neutrophils than TNL myometrium. Furthermore, the scRNA-seq analysis showed an increase in M1 macrophages in TIL myometrium. CXCL8 expression was mainly observed in neutrophils and increased in TIL myometrium. CCL3 and CCL4 were principally expressed in M2 macrophages and neutrophils-6, and decreased during labour; XCL1 and XCL2 were specifically expressed in NK cells, and decreased during labour. Analysis of cytokine receptor expression revealed an increase in IL1R2, which primarily expressed in neutrophils. Finally, we visualized the spatial proximity of representative cytokines, contraction-associated genes, and corresponding receptors in ST to demonstrate their location within the myometrium. CONCLUSIONS: Our analysis comprehensively revealed changes in immune cells, cytokines, and cytokine receptors during labour. It provided a valuable resource to detect and characterize inflammatory changes, yielding insights into the immune mechanisms underlying labour.