# Otsuichi

is the pen name of , born 1978. He is a Japanese writer, mostly of horror short stories, as well as a filmmaker. He is a member of the Mystery Writers of Japan and the Honkaku Mystery Writers Club of Japan.

He made his debut with Summer, Fireworks and My Corpse while still in high school. Major works include the novel Goth, which was adapted into a comic and a feature film (Goth: Love of Death) and the Zoo short story collections which were also adapted into a feature film. Goth won the 2003 Honkaku Mystery Award.

Tokyopop has published English-language translations of his short story collection Calling You, the novel Goth and the comic adaptations of both. Another short story, F-Sensei's Pocket, appears in the English edition of the literary magazine Faust.

Career 
Otsuichi was born on October 21, 1978 in Tanushimaru (now part of Kurume), Fukuoka Prefecture, as the eldest son of a family of four with his parents and two older sisters. He attended Kawai Elementary School and during his later years there, he became overweight, surpassing 60 kilograms. This led to Otsuichi getting bullied and gaining an inferiority complex, which he used playing video games alone to deal with. After Kawai, he attended Kurume Shiritsu Tanushimaru Junior High School. At the age of 14, he decided to go on a diet, and was elected class president in the third year of junior high school. Despite this, he still felt inferior to his classmates.

In 1994, he entered the National Institute of Technology, Kurume College. Despite calling the 5 years at the college "the gloomiest in all of his life," during summer vacation when he was around 15 years old, he read the first volume of the light novel series Slayers by Hajime Kanzaka which he borrowed from a friend and discovered his love of reading, and began dabbling into the world of light novels and manga. For the next year and a half, Otsuichi read as many light novels as he could get his hands on either from friends or his older sisters, while also encountering mystery novels such as Takemaru Abiko's Satsuriku ni taru Yamai, Yukito Ayatsuji's The Decagon House Murders and Sōji Shimada's Detective Kiyoshi Mitarai series.

He started writing his own novels when he was 16 years old. To qualify for the Fujimi Fantasia Novel Awards, Otsuichi starting writing an isekai fantasy novel, but feeling that it was not going well, he decided to rewrite the setting to a rural town nearby where he grew up. This reworked novel was called Summer, Fireworks and My Corpse and it won the 6th JUMP Novel Grand Prix award in 1996 after a strong endorsement from Kaoru Kurimoto, making his official debut at only 17 years old.

In 1999, he graduated from the National Institute of Technology, Kurume College, and transferred to the Department of Ecology Engineering, Toyohashi University of Technology, and started living on his own in Toyohashi, Aichi Prefecture. At university, he belonged to a science fiction research group.

In 2002, Otsuichi graduated from Toyohashi University. This year, one of his most known work, Goth, was published and the following year, it won the 3rd Honkaku Mystery Award. In 2003, he moved from Toyohashi to the vicinity of Tokyo's Gakugei-daigaku Station, and a few months later to the vicinity of Musashi-Nakahara Station in Kawasaki, Kanagawa Prefecture.

At that time, Otsuichi was invited by an editor to watch the sound editing of Mamoru Oshii's Ghost in the Shell 2: Innocence. There, he met Oshii's daughter Tomoe Oshii who was a writer for the film, and the two later got married in 2006. In February 2007, they moved from Kawasaki. In 2010, the couple had a child together.

Style and influence in the field 
In his early career, Otsuichi's works could be described as mainly short stories with interesting ideas and heartwarming light novels. Furthermore, some of his early work were horror or sad stories, named Black Otsuichi and White Otsuichi respectively. However, Goth, one of the work he is most known for, was a highly acclaimed mystery novel, even winning the Honkaku Mystery Award.

Under the name Otsuichi, his work has been published mainly by Shueisha, Kadokawa Shoten (now KADOKAWA), and Gentosha.

Describing his writing process, Otsuichi says he first decides on the storyline and then creates characters to match it. In addition, he adopted movie scriptwriting techniques from a book called Shinario Nyūmon (シナリオ入門) shortly after his debut. In particular, his stories tend to have a turning point at the midpoint and many of his works are divide into four or even sixteen parts.

His wife, Tomoe Oshii, says that Otsuichi is "not obsessed with [using] either novels or movies [as a medium in telling a story]." Otsuichi himself says that he "just enjoys working on his works as they take shape."

In 2012, Kono Mystery ga Sugoi! Award of Excellence winner Hitsuji Tomoi self-described himself as a "serious Otsuichi fan" and said that reading and studying Otsuichi's work inspired him to become a novelist.

Otsuichi and light novels 
Light novels have a peculiar position in the publishing world, according to Otsuichi. "None of the editors I've known read light novels." This is connected to how light novels are perceived as lesser compared to other forms of literature, a fact which Otsuichi only learned after becoming active in the publishing industry. When he debuted, there were no awards for light novels.

Otsuichi wrote and published Goth as a light novel to introduce people who only read light novels to the mystery genre in the hope of expanding the horizons of readers to other forms of literature.

Works in English translation
 Calling You (original title: Kimi ni shika kikoenai: Kōringu Yū), trans. Agnes Yoshida (TokyoPop, 2007)
 Calling You
 Kiz/Kids
 Flower Song
 Goth (original title: Gosu: Risutokatto jiken), trans. Andrew Cunningham (TokyoPop, 2008 / VIZ Media, 2015)
 Zoo (original title: Zū), trans. Terry Gallagher (VIZ Media, 2009 / Shueisha English Edition, 2013)
 Zoo
 In a Falling Airplane
 The White House in the Cold Forest
 Find the Blood!
 In a Park at Twlilight, a Long Time Ago
 Wardrobe
 Song of the Sunny Spot
 Kazari and Yoko
 SO-Far
 Words of God
 Seven Rooms
 Summer, Fireworks, and My Corpse (original title: Natsu to hanabi to watashi no shitai), trans. Nathan Collins (VIZ Media, 2010)
 Summer, Fireworks, and My Corpse
 Yuko
 Black Fairy Tale
 Summer, Fireworks, and My Corpse (original title: Natsu to hanabi to watashi no shitai), trans. Nathan Collins (Shueisha English Edition, 2013)
 Summer, Fireworks, and My Corpse
 Yuko
 Black Fairy Tale (original title: Ankoku dōwa), trans. Nathan Collins (Shueisha English Edition, 2013)
Short story
 F-sensei's Pocket (original title: F sensei no poketto), trans. Andrew Cunningham, illustrated by Takeshi Obata (Faust 1, Del Rey, 2008)
 Where the Wind Blows (original title: Mado ni fuku kaze), trans. Andrew Cunningham, illustrated by Takeshi Obata (Faust 2, Del Rey, 2009)
 Firestarter Yukawa (original title: Faiasutātā Yukawa-san), trans. Matt Treyvaud, illustrated by KEI (Kindle Single, 2015) written under the name Eiichi Nakata

Awards and nominations
Japanese Awards
 1996 – Weekly Shōnen Jump Novel Award: Summer, Fireworks, and My Corpse
 2003 – Honkaku Mystery Award for Best Fiction: Goth
 2004 – Nominee for Yamamoto Shūgorō Prize: Zoo

U.S. Award
 2009 – Nominee for Shirley Jackson Award for Single-Author Collection: Zoo

Bibliography

Novels or short story collections
 Summer, Fireworks and My Corpse (Shueisha, 1996: , Shueisha bunko, 2000: )
 Summer, Fireworks and My Corpse
 Yuko
 Tentei Yōko (Shueisha, 1998: , Shueisha bunko, 2001: )
 A Masked Ball – Or, the appearance and disappearance of the bathroom smoker
 Tentei Yōko
 Ishi no Me (Shueisha, 2000: )/Heimen Inu (Shueisha Bunko, 2003: )
 Ishi no Me
 Hajime
 Blue
 Heimen Inu
 Shissō Holiday (Kadokawa Sneaker Bunko, 2001: )
 Happiness is a Warm Kitty
 Shissō Holiday
 Calling You (Kadokawa Sneaker Bunko, 2001: )
 Calling You
 Kiz/Kids
 Flower Song
 Ankoku Dowa (Shueisha, 2001: , Shueisha Bunko, 2004: )
 Shinizokonai no Ao (Gentosha Bunko, 2001: )
 Kurai tokoro de machiawase (Gentosha Bunko, 2002: )
 Goth Wristcut Case (Kadokawa Shoten, 2002: ) – the winner of the 3rd Honkaku Mystery Award
 Goth
 Wristcut
 Dog
 Twins
 Grave
 Voice
 Goth Yoru no Shō (Kadokawa Bunko, 2005: )
 Goth
 Dog
 Twins
 Goth Boku no Shō (Kadokawa Bunko, 2005: )
 Wristcut
 Grave
 Voice
 Samishisa no Shūhasū (Kadokawa Sneaker Bunko, 2003: )
 Mirai Yoho Ashita, Harereba ii
 Te o Nigiru dorobō no Monogatari
 Film no naka no Shōjo
 Ushinawareta Monogatari
 Zoo (Shueisha, 2003: )
 Kazari to Yōko
 Ketsueki wo Sagase!
 Hidamari no Shi
 So-far
 Tsumetai Mori no Shiroi Ie
 Closet
 Kami no Kotoba
 Zoo
 Seven Rooms
 Ochiru hikoki no Naka de
 Zoo 1 (Shueisha Bunko, 2006: )
 Kazari to Yōko
 Seven Rooms
 So-far
 Hidamari no Shi
 Zoo
 Zoo 2 (Shueisha Bunko, 2006: )
 Ketsueki wo Sagase!
 Tsumetai Mori no Shiroi Ie
 Closet
 Kami no Kotoba
 Ochiru