# Masoud Jafari Jozani

Masoud Jafari Jozani (; , born 9 December 1948) is an Iranian film director, screenwriter and producer. He has received an award for the best short film at the Fajr International Film Festival. In the Wind's Eye is one of Jafari Jozani's most notable works, which he directed and wrote. This TV series In the Wind's Eye was the first Iranian film to be shot in the United States since the Iranian Revolution (1979) and one of the most expensive films in the history of Iran, with a budget of $12 million. 

Jozani, Iranian cinema's enduring face, is a post-revolutionary cinema pioneer who introduced Iranian post-revolutionary cinema to international festivals with his debut film, Frosty Roads. He was recognized as a bridge between East and West cinema in 1987 and 1988, when he attended many international film festivals, including the Berlin International Film Festival, the Montreal World Film Festival, the Hawaii International Film Festival, and the Hong Kong International Film Festival. Jozani teaching cinema and graphics in the United States (with a lifetime teaching license), teaching at Iranian universities, and managing the Jozan Film Institute.

Early life and education 
Masoud Jafari Jozani was born 9 December 1948 in Malayer, Hamadan province, Pahlavi Iran.

Jozani received an M.A. degree in cinema from the San Francisco State University (1977). He began his cinematic career as a scriptwriter and director of short films.

Career

1980–1984: Entering television and animation

Towards Freedom (1980) 
Towards Freedom by Jozani is considered the first political documentary in Iran, played on 10 February 1980 by the Islamic Republic of Iran Broadcasting. Masoud Jafari Jozani founded the IRIB's animation section and produced some animated films.

1984: Beginning a cinematic career

Speak to Me (1984) 
In 1984, Jozani, by making the short film Speak to Me, produced by the Institute for the Intellectual Development of Children and Young Adults, managed to get the honorary diploma for best short film from the third Fajr International Film Festival.

Frosty Roads (1984) 

In 1984, Jafari Jozani was made his debut feature film in his birthplace. Frosty Roads was one of the best-selling films of the first decade of the revolution, and it is valued for its visual structure as much as its substance. The only professional and well-known member of this film was Ali Nassirian. This film opened the path for Hamid Jebeli, Turaj Mansuri, Mahmoud Clari, Alireza Raisian, and Shapur Pouramin to break into the professional film industry.

The Stone Lion (1987) 
 (), is the story of a confrontation between tradition and modernity, which won the Crystal Simorgh for Best Screenplay in the fifth Fajr International Film Festival. The killing of one British creates a deadly confrontation between two Bakhtiari leaders, starring Ezzatolah Entezami and Ali Nassirian, making it the most important and most important durable of Jozani's works. Also participated in many international festivals, such as the 11th Montreal World Film Festival (Canada) in 1988, and was appreciated.

Eye of the Hurricane (1989) 

His next movie was Eye of the Hurricane, which had a larger production than The Stone Lion. It was again a compelling story about the presence of foreigners in Iran during World War II.

Maturity (1999) 
After the cultural developments of 1992–2002, he attended to the youth's problems by making the film Maturity and received awards in the 18th Fajr International Film Festival.

2002–2012: Filmmaking the expensive TV series in the history of Iran

In the Wind's Eye (2008) 

He spent most of the 2002–2012 writing and directing the TV series In the Wind's Eye (a 44 piece TV series of 50 minutes each) shown on IRIB TV1, which was a must-see program on TV and told the story of Iran from the Mirza Kuchik Khan's uprising to the Iran–Iraq War. The script was written in two years by Masoud Jafari Jozani.

This historical TV series In the Wind's Eye was telling three historical periods: the first was the end of the Qajar Iran and beginning of the Pahlavi dynasty, the second was World War II and a special time after the revolution which was after the Battle of Khorramshahr. Making this series with 480 locations in over 10 other cities and provinces was one of the biggest television productions.

2015: Return to Cinema

Iran Burger (2015) 
The feature film Iran Burger, Jozani's only comedy made, with the help of a local and folkloric atmosphere, and a script is written in situation comedy, was made into a high selling, fun, and respectable film.

Behind the Wall of Silence (2017) 

His other film was Behind the Wall of Silence which is focused on Aids and was made with the help of the people's organizations, was invited by the 61st conference of women (CSW), and was supposed to be shown on 20 March 2017 with the presence of the main characters in the gathering at non-governmental organizations (NGO) and people-centered institutions in support of the mothers and children suffering from HIV/AIDS in the Headquarters of the United Nations in New York in the US was due to the United States president, Donald Trump's discrimination and racist decision of not giving visas to the people of this movie to go to the United Nations and attend the main UN conference and was canceled.

Paradise of criminals (2020) 
In 2020, he began making the film Paradise of Criminals, which also deals with the events of the nationalization of the oil industry.

Unfinished projects 
Masoud Jafari Jozani still has a head filled with ideas and great Iranian characters. Although his three scripts: Ya'qub ibn al-Layth, Pourya-ye Vali, and Cyrus the Great have passed the first stages of production, for various reasons, they have not been completed.

Films

Baskerville 
The script is based on the life of Howard Baskerville, who was an American teacher in the American Memorial School in Tabriz who was killed during the Persian constitutional revolution and in an attempt to break the siege Tabriz. Masoud Jafari Jozani wrote this script in 1995, and the Hozeh Honari purchased it the same year. Then, in 1998, Masoud Jafari Jozani and Shahriar Rohani were bought it from the Hozeh Honari, and Ebtekar publishing published it.

In the years afterward, Masoud Jafari Jozani has signed contracts with American and Canadian film studios to produce the Baskerville film in Iran. Still, each failed for some reason, except for the most recent agreement signed with the association searching for a common ground, which even obtained official permission from the Ministry of Culture and Islamic Guidance to produce the film. According to the American newspaper Le Figaro, an American producer decided to use Brad Pitt as Howard Baskerville; However, for whatever reason, the film was never made. Finally, the American and Iranian Screenwriters Association in the United States and Canada registered the Baskerville scripts titled after Masoud Jafari Jozani and Mohammad Mehdi Dadgoo.

In 2005 Masoud Jafari Jozani was informed that an Iranian filmmaker based in the United States announced that he was planning to travel to Turkey to make Baskerville. Jozani reacted to the media and announced that he was filing a lawsuit for stealing works of art in Iran and the United States.

In 2010 Massoud Jafari Jozani, after obtaining a filming license in the United States, decided to make the TV series Baskerville. He tries to make this TV series with the financial assistance of the Iranian and American companies, But it did not work out.

Cyrus the Great 
Masoud Jafari Jozani wrote the screenplay of Cyrus the Great in the style of an adapted screenplay based on the life story of Cyrus the Great with the researcher Fathullah Jafari Jozani and Abdul Karim Younesi.

The character of Cyrus is highly significant in terms of historical and national standing. Still, big powers without history and culture are attempting to deny Iran's position in the world, so the construction of this project was on the agenda.

Ali Moallem, one of the producers, introduced Masoud Jafari Jozani as the director. After the death of Ali Moallem, Masoud Jafari Jozani handed over the script to the investors. Before that, he covered the project costs with his capital. The project started after concluding a contract with foreign investors but stopped for some reason.

Television series

Khawaja Nasir al-Din al-Tusi 
Masoud Jafari Jozani was going to make a TV series about Nasir al-Din al-Tusi after the TV series In the Wind's Eye for Simafilm. Still, unfortunately Khawaja Nasir al-Din al-Tusi did not get made.

Pourya-ye Vali 
Masoud Jafari Jozani wrote the script for Pourya-ye Vali for a TV series in five seasons (52 episodes of 50 min). Although the contract for this series was signed in 2013 by the Islamic Republic of Iran Broadcasting, it was not produced due to a change in management of IRIB, and Finally, Anapana Publishing published it.

Fathollah Jafari Jozani and Doctor