# Bryan Spears

Bryan James Spears (born April 19, 1977) is an American film and television producer. He is the older brother of singer Britney Spears and actress Jamie Spears, and was co-manager of Britney's conservatorship. He was also a co-producer of Nickelodeon's teen sitcom Zoey 101, which starred Jamie Lynn.

Biography
Spears was born to James Parnell Spears and Lynne Irene Spears (née Bridges) on April 19, 1977, in McComb, Mississippi. He was born with a bacterial lung infection and had to be hooked to an IV before overcoming the infection about a week later. In Lynne's book, Through the Storm: A Real Story of Fame and Family in a Tabloid World, she recalls how she thought Spears was going to die and pleaded with God to let him live. He is of  Irish, Maltese, Scottish, Scots-Irish/Northern Irish, French, and Welsh ancestry.

Spears’s father worked as a construction contractor and his mother worked as a second-grade teacher. The family attended First Baptist Church in Kentwood, Louisiana.

Spears attended Parklane Academy in McComb, a private Christian school that serves grades K-12.  After graduating high school, Spears attended Southeastern Louisiana University in Hammond, his mother's alma mater. While attending university, he majored in kinesiology. In 2000, he studied sports administration at Southwest Mississippi Community College.

Career
At age 22, he moved to New York City and began working for Live Nation focusing on sports. After his sister Britney became famous, Spears started working as a manager for Spears family interests, including acting as producer for a number of Jamie Lynn’s projects. He was a co-producer of Nickelodeon's teen sitcom Zoey 101 and worked as an executive producer for two television specials about Jamie Lynn. Before his father Jamie gained conservatorship over Britney in 2008, Spears was paid $200,000 for "services rendered." Spears worked for his sister, Britney on six of her world tours. He lived in Las Vegas for four years and worked with Britney during her concert residency. He also directed Jamie Lynn's music video for the song "Sleepover" (2016).

His father Jamie owned a seafood restaurant called Granny’s in Louisiana, which he eventually gave to Bryan. He has since sold the restaurant.

Personal life
Over New Years in 2009, Spears married Graciella Sanchez, manager of Jamie Lynn and founder of One Talent Management. The two wed in a small, private ceremony in New Orleans. Sanchez is a graduate of Yale University. Together the two have one daughter, Sophia Alexandra "Lexie" Spears. Sanchez filed for divorce in August 2015.

Since February 2020, Spears has been dating Amber Lynn Conklin. He is 20 years older than Amber Lynn.

Filmography

As himself

As producer or director

References

External links
 

1977 births
American people of Maltese descent
American television producers
Living people
People from Kentwood, Louisiana
People from McComb, Mississippi
Parklane Academy alumni
Southeastern Louisiana University alumni
Bryan