# X-linked severe combined immunodeficiency

X-linked severe combined immunodeficiency (X-SCID) is an immunodeficiency disorder in which the body produces very few T cells and NK cells.

In the absence of T cell help, B cells become defective. It is an X-linked recessive inheritance trait, stemming from a mutated (abnormal) version of the IL2RG gene located on the X-chromosome. This gene encodes the interleukin receptor common gamma chain protein, which is a cytokine receptor sub-unit that is part of the receptors for IL-2, IL-4, IL-7, IL-9, IL-15 and IL-21.

Symptoms and signs
People with X-SCID often have infections very early in life, before three months of age. This occurs due to the decreased amount of immunoglobulin G (IgG) levels in the infant during the three-month stage. This is followed by viral infections such as pneumonitis, an inflammation of the lung which produces common symptoms such as cough, fever, chills, and shortness of breath.  A telltale sign of X-SCID is candidiasis, a type of fungal infection caused by Candida albicans. Candidiasis involves moist areas of the body such as skin, the mouth, respiratory tract, and vagina;  symptoms of oral candidiasis include difficulty in swallowing, pain on swallowing and oral lesions.  Recurrent eczema-like rashes are also a common symptom. Other common infections experienced by individuals with X-SCID include diarrhea, sepsis, and otitis media. Some other common symptoms that are experienced by X-SCID patients include failure to thrive, gut problems, skin problems, and muscle hypotonia.

In some patients symptoms may not appear for the first six months after birth. This is likely due to passive immunity received from the mother in order to protect the baby from infections until the newborn is able to make its own antibodies. As a result, there can be a silent period where the baby displays no symptoms of X-SCID followed by the development of frequent infections.

Genetics
X-SCID is caused by a mutation occurring in the xq13.1 locus of the X-chromosome.  Most often, this disease affects males whose mother is a carrier (heterozygous) for the disorder. Because females have two X-chromosomes, the mother will not be affected by carrying only one abnormal X-chromosome, but any male children will have a 50% chance of being affected with the disorder by inheriting the faulty gene. Likewise, her female children will have a 50% chance of being carriers for the immunodeficiency. X-SCID can also arise through de novo mutations and can be prevented in females by X-inactivation. In X-inactivation the preferential selection of the non-mutant X chromosome during development results in the outcome that none of the mature female cells actively express the X-SCID mutation, they are immunologically unaffected and have no carrier burden. A de novo mutation is an alteration in a gene caused by the result of a mutation in a germ cell (egg or sperm) or in the fertilized egg itself, rather than having been inherited from a carrier. Since only 1/3 of all X-SCID patients have a positive family history of SCID, it is hypothesized that de novo mutations account for a significant percentage of cases. X-inactivation occurs in a completely random manner, in females, very early in embryonic development. Once an X is inactivated, it remains inactivated throughout the life of that cell and any of its daughter cells. It is important to note that X-inactivation is reversed in female germline cells, so that all new oocytes receive an active X. Regardless of which X is inactivated in her somatic cells, a female will have a 50% chance of passing on the disease to any male children.

Pathophysiology
Interleukins are produced by lymphocytes, among other cell types, and are released in response to antigenic and non-antigenic stimuli. The gene IL2RG codes for the common gamma chain protein, which is a common subunit of the individual receptors for Interleukin 2, Interleukin 4, Interleukin 7, Interleukin 9, Interleukin 15 and Interleukin 21. Signalling from these receptors normally promotes growth and differentiation of T-cells, B cells, natural killer cells, glial cells, and cells of the monocyte lineage, depending on the cell type and receptor activated. The most important receptors for X-SCID are those for Interleukin 2, Interleukin 4, Interleukin 7, and Interleukin 15. Specifically, Interleukin 2 and Interleukin 7 are responsible for T-cell proliferation and survival. Likewise, the action of Interleukin 4 and Interleukin 15 will lead to proliferation and differentiation of B-cells into antibody secreting plasma cells. Lastly, Interleukin 15 helps generate developed and matured natural killer cells.

The gene that encodes the common gamma chain in these interleukin receptors is mutated in X-SCID. The mutation leads to an absent or abnormally functioning common gamma chain. The mutation can occur through large, or even single nucleotide, deletions in the IL2RG gene, that disable the common gamma chain so that it is unable to bind with other receptor subunits and signal cytokine activation. Normally, when the interleukin binds to the trimeric receptor protein containing the alpha, beta, and gamma subunits, the common gamma subunit activates Janus Kinase 3 (JAK3), which leads to the phosphorylation of Signal Transducer and Activator of Transcription 5, STAT5. The STAT5 proteins dimerize and translocate to the nucleus, controlling subsequent downstream signalling. Due to the fact that the common gamma chain is absent or abnormal, this downstream pathway is inhibited. This change prevents the T-lymphocytes from signaling other cells, like B-lymphocytes and natural killer cells.  Because these cells never receive these signals, they can never mature and differentiate into full grown immune cells.

Diagnosis
Diagnosis of X-SCID is possible through lymphocyte cell counts, lymphocyte function tests, and genetic testing.  A healthy immune system should contain large amounts of lymphocytes, but individuals with X-SCID will contain unusually small amounts of T-cells, non-functional B-cells, and some natural killer cells.

Individuals with X-SCID often have decreased lymphocyte function. This can be tested through the introduction of agents to the immune system; the reaction of the lymphocytes is then observed.  In X-SCID, Antibody responses to introduced vaccines and infections are absent, and T-cell responses to mitogens, substances that stimulate lymphocyte transformation, are deficient.  IgA and IgM immunoglobulins, substances that aid in fighting off infections, are very low. 

The absence of a thymic shadow on chest X-rays is also indicative of X-SCID. In a normal child, a distinctive sailboat shaped shadow near the heart can be seen. The thymus gland in normal patients will gradually decrease in size because the need for the thymus gland diminishes. The decrease in the size of the thymus gland occurs because the body already has a sufficient number of developed T-cells. However, a patient with X-SCID will be born with an abnormally small thymus gland at birth. This indicates that the function of thymus gland, of forming developed T-cells, has been impaired.

Since the mutation in X-SCID is X-linked, there are genetic tests for detecting carriers in X-SCID pedigrees.  One method is to look for family-specific IL2RG mutations.  Finally, if none of those options are available, there is an unusual pattern of nonrandom X-chromosome inactivation on lymphocytes in carriers, thus looking for such inactivation would prove useful.

If a mother is pregnant and the family has a known history of immunodeficiency, then doctors may perform diagnostic assessment in-utero. Chorionic Villus Sampling, which involves sampling of the placental tissue using a catheter inserted through the cervix, can be performed 8 to 10 weeks into gestation.  Alternatively, Amniocentesis, which entails extracting a sample of the fluid which surrounds the fetus, can be performed 15 to 20 weeks into gestation.

Early detection of X-SCID (and other types of SCID) is also made possible through detection of T-cell recombination excision circles, or TRECs. TRECs are composed of excised DNA fragments which are generated during normal splicing of T-cell surface antigen receptors and T-cell maturation. This maturation process is absent across all SCID variants, as evidenced by the low counts of T-lymphocytes. The assay is performed using dried blood from a Guthrie card, from which DNA is extracted. Quantitative PCR is then performed and the number of TRECs determined. Individuals who have the SCID phenotype will have TREC counts as low as <30, compared to approximately 1020 for a healthy infant. A low TREC count indicates that there is insufficient development of T-cells in the thymus gland. This technique can predict SCID even when lymphocyte counts are within the normal range. Newborn screening of X-SCID based on TREC count in dried blood samples has recently been introduced in several states in the Unite