[The Study of the Cell — Wilson — Gutenberg #3818]

go there and stay for the turtle season." * * * * * Three days afterwards the schooner was within fifty miles of his island home, when Brantley was aroused at daylight from his watch below by the cry of "TE PAHI!" (a ship!) and hastening on deck he saw a large vessel bearing down upon them. In half an hour she was close to, and Brantley recognised her as a brig from Tahiti, that occasionally made a trading voyage to the Paumotus, and whose skipper was a personal friend. Suddenly she hove-to and lowered a boat, which came alongside the schooner, and the white man that steered jumped on deck and held out his hand. "How are you, Brantley?" and then his eye went quickly over the crew of the schooner, then glanced through the open skylight into the little cabin, and a hopeful, expectant look in his face died away. "Very well, thank you, Latham. But what is wrong?--you look worried." "Come on board," said the captain of the brig, quietly, "and I'll tell you." As Brantley took his seat beside him, Latham said: "I have bad news for you, Brantley. Your sister is on board the brig, and I fear she will not live long. She came down to Tahiti in the MARAMA from Auckland, and offered me a good round sum to bring her to you." "Has she been ill long, Latham?" * * * * * Latham looked at him curiously. "Didn't you know, Brantley? She's in a rapid consumption." For a moment neither men spoke; then Latham gave a short cough. "I feel it almost as badly as you, Brantley--but I've got a bit more bad news--" "Go on, Latham--it can't matter much. My poor sister is everything to me." "Just so. That's what I told Miss Brantley. Well, it's this--your wife and child are missing----" Latham glanced at him and saw that his hand trembled and then grasped the gunwale of the boat. "We got into Vahitahi lagoon about ten days ago, and I took Miss Brantley ashore. What happened I don't exactly know, but the next night one of your whale-boats was gone, and Luita and the child were missing. Your sister was in a terrible state of mind, and offered me a thousand dollars to put to sea. Brantley, old man, I wouldn't take a dollar from her--God bless her--but I did put to sea, and I've searched nigh on twenty islands, and scores of reefs and sandbanks----" "Thank you, Latham," said Brantley quietly; "when we get on board you can give me further particulars of the islands you've searched." "You can have my marked chart; I've got a spare one. Brace up, old man! you'll see your sister in a minute. She is terribly cut up over poor Luita--more so than I knew you would be. But she was a grand little woman, Brantley, although she was only a native." "Yes," he answered, in the same slow, dazed manner, "she was a good little girl to me, although she----" The words stuck in his throat. * * * * * Latham showed him into the brig's cabin, and then a door opened, and Doris threw herself weeping into his arms. "Oh, Doris," he whispered, "why did you not tell me you were ill? I would have come to you long ago. I feel a brute----" She placed her hand on his lips. "Never mind about me, Fred. Has Captain Latham told you about----" "Yes," he replied; and then suddenly: "Doris, I am going to look for her; I think I know the place to which she has gone. It is not far from here. Doris, will you go on back to Vahitahi with Latham and wait for me?" "Fred," she whispered, "let me come with you. It will not be long, dear, before I am gone, and it was hard to die away from you--that is why I came; and perhaps we may find her." He kissed her silently, and then in five minutes more they had said farewell to Latham, and were on their way to the schooner. The crew soon knew from him what had happened, and Rua Manu, with his big eyes filled with a wondering pity as he looked at the frail body and white face of Doris lying on the skylight, wore the schooner's head round to the south-west at a sign from Brantley. "Aye, Paranili," he said, in his deep, guttural tones, "it is to Tatakoto she hath gone--'tis her mother's land." * * * * * That night, as she lay on the skylight with her hand in his, Doris told him all she knew:-- "They were all kind to me when I went ashore to your house, Fred, but Luita looked so fiercely at me.... Her eyes frightened me--they had a look of death in them. "In the morning your little child was taken ill with what they call TATARU, and I wanted to give it medicine. Luita pushed my hand away and hugged the child to her bosom; and then the other women came and made signs for me to go away. And that night she and the child were missing, and one of your boats was gone." "Poor Luita," said Brantley, stroking Doris's pale cheek, "she did not know you were my sister. I never told her, Doris." "She is a very beautiful woman, Fred. They told me at Tahiti that she was called the pearl of Vahitahi; and oh! my dear, if we can but find her, I will make her love me for your sake." * * * * * Late in the afternoon of the second day, just as the trade wind began to lose its strength, the schooner was running along the weather-side of Tatakoto, and Rua Manu, from the mast-head, called out that he saw the boat lying on the beach inside the lagoon, with her sail set; and, as landing was not practicable on the weather-side, the schooner ran round to the lee. "We will soon know, Doris. It always rains in these islands at this time of the year, so she would not suffer as I once did; but the sail of the boat is still set, and that makes me think she has never left it. Wait till I come back again, Doris; you cannot help me." And Doris, throwing her weak arms round his neck, kissed him with a sob, and lay back again to wait. * * * * * With Rua Manu and two others of his faithful native crew, Brantley walked quickly across the island to the lagoon to where the boat lay. Luita was not there, and the dark eyes of his sailors met his in a responsive glow of hope--she had not died in the boat! They turned back into the silent aisles of coconut palms, and then Rua Manu loudly called her name. "Listen," he said. A voice--a weak, trembling voice--was singing the song of Talaloo. "Terunavahori, bending low, Bindeth the sandals on Talaloo's feet; 'Hasten, O hasten, lover true, O'er the coral, cruel and sharp, Over the coral, and sand, and rock, Snare thee a turtle for our marriage feast; IA AKOE! brave lover mine.'" "In the old MARAE, Paranili," said Rua Manu, pointing to the remains of a ruined temple. Motioning to the seamen to remain outside, Brantley entered the crumbling walls of the old heathen MARAE. At the far end was a little screen of coconut boughs. He stooped down and went in. A few minutes passed, and then his hand was thrust out between the branches as a sign for them to follow. * * * * * One by one they came and sat beside Brantley, who held the wasted figure of the wanderer in his arms. The sound of his voice had brought back her wavering reason, and she knew them all now. She knew, too, that her brief young life was ebbing fast; for, as each of the brown men pressed their lips to her hand, tears coursed down their cheeks. "See, men of Vahitahi, my Englishman hath come to me, a fool that fled from his house ... because I thought that he lied to me. Teloma was it who first mocked, and said: ''Tis his wife from Beretania who hath come to seek him;' and then other girls laughed and mocked also, and said: 'AH-HE! Luita, this fair-faced girl who sayeth she is thy husband's sister, AH-HE!' ... and their words and looks stung me ... So at night I took my child and swam to the boat.... My child, see, it is here," and she touched a little mound in the soil beside her. There was a low murmur of sympathy, and then the brown men went outside and covered their faces with their hands, after the manner of their race when death is near, and waited in silence. * * * * * Night had fallen on the lonely island, and the far-off muffled boom of the breakers as they dashed on the black ledges of the weather reef would now and then be borne into the darkness of the little hut. "Put thy face to mine, Paranili," she whispered; "I grow cold now." As the bearded face of the man bent over her, one thin, weak arm rose waveringly in the air, and then fell softly round his neck, and Brantley, with his hand upon her bosom, felt that her heart had ceased to beat. * * * * * The next day he sailed the schooner into the lagoon, and Doris pressed her lips on the dead forehead of the native girl ere she was laid to rest. Something that Doris had said to him as they walked away from her grave filled Brantley's heart with a deadly fear, and as he took her in his arms his voice shook. "Don't say that, Doris. It cannot be so soon as that. I was never a good man; but surely God will spare you to me a little longer." But it came very soon--on the morning of the day that he intended sailing out of the lagoon again, Doris died in his arms on board the schooner, and Brantley laid her to rest under the shade of a giant puka-tree that overshadowed the stones of the old MARAE. * * * * * That night he called Rua Manu into the cabin and asked him if he could beat his way back to Vahitahi in the schooner. "'Tis an easy matter, Paranili. So that the sky be clear and I can see the stars, then shall I find Vahitahi in three days." "Good. Then to-morrow take the schooner there, and tell such of