# ZiU-9

ZiU-9, or ZIU-9 (Cyrillic: ЗиУ-9) is a Soviet (and later Russian) trolleybus. Other names for the  ZiU-9 are ZiU-682 and HTI-682 (Cyrillic: ЗиУ-682 and ХТИ-682). The ZiU acronym stands for Zavod imeni Uritskogo, which is a factory named after Moisei Uritsky, the Russian revolutionary. Before 1996 this acronym was also a trademark of the vehicle manufacturer Trolza. The ZiU-9 was first built in 1966, although it was only put into mass production in 1972 and it was still assembled along with other more advanced trolleybus vehicles in the Trolza (former ZiU) factory until 2015. The total number of produced ZiU-9s exceeds 42,000 vehicles making it the most produced trolleybus in the world. In addition, many copies of ZiU-9 were made in other factories of the former Soviet bloc.

History and development 

The explosive development of trolleybus systems in the Soviet Union in the 1960s required a large number of trolleybuses to operate on said systems. The mainstay of the contemporary Soviet trolleybus fleet, the ZiU-5, was not sufficient for large urban passenger transfers as it was more suited for medium-size cities rather than large megapolises such as Moscow or Saint Petersburg. In addition, the ZiU-5 had an aluminium exterior, which was expensive and complicated from a technological point of view. The two doors in the ZiU-5 hull ends did not work well in overcrowded situations which were quite common in Soviet public transportation.

The ZiU-9 was a quite successful attempt to solve these problems. It has one extra door compared to the ZiU-5.the middle and rear doors are wide, to allow for passenger flow. the small door at the front end of the vehicle is comfortable for the driver and for outgoing passengers. The exterior of the ZiU-9 is made of welded steel and is significantly cheaper and simpler than the exterior of the ZiU-5.

The electrical equipment of the ZiU-9 had some minor differences from the ZiU-5. The power of the main motor was increased. The indirect resistor-based control system of electric current was slightly modified to deal with the increased power of the main motor. While western designers developed new semiconductor-based control devices, Soviet engineers decided to leave the old resistor-based system for ease of maintenance. The first prototype vehicles were tested in Moscow in 1971 and were approved for mass production after some minor design adjustments.

The '9' in the vehicle name was the initial project index of the design team. However, after launching mass production, the new trolleybus received a new index, '682' from the united classification of non-rail public transport vehicles. all series vehicles had a ZiU-682 designation. But the number 682 is difficult to pronounce and the shorter '9' still lives in the everyday language of drivers and servicemen. In 1986, a new classification was introduced and the former ZiU-682 was designated as HTI-682. But this was not the end of renaming the same vehicle. The Russian acronym HTI in the Cyrillic alphabet is ХТИ and these three Cyrillic letters in 1995 were confused with the Latin letters XTU which then became the official name of the vehicle.

Production

ZiU-9
The first prototype, ZiU-9, was built in 1966, with the second prototype being built in 1970. Elements of the appearance and number of design decisions were borrowed from contemporary to the time foreign firms MAN and Chausson.

ZiU-9A
The ZiU-9A  was an experimental version with a wide body up to 2680 mm. The only prototype was made in 1968.

ZiU-682B

In August 1972, the first production series, the ZiU-682B began production. Early trolley cars differed from later releases. Models prior to 1974 had angular wheel arches rather than circular ones. The first batch of trolleybuses used the outdated DC-207G engine, which was replaced by the DC-210 110 kW engine in 1973. Suspension on the first ZiU-682B was pneumatic, with torque rods as guiding elements, and was later replaced with pneumatic spring guiding elements. The rear area had a lowered floor, to reduce the number of steps at the back door, thus allowing the loading of wheelchairs, prams, and large items. However, this "advantage" was leveled by a high handrail on the steps separating the rear and middle doors. The transition from a high floor in the cabin to a lower back floor was facilitated by sloping the aisle between the rear wheel arches, which caused inconvenience to passengers at peak hours (especially in winter), standing on an icy ramp. In 1991 developers replaced the high-speed separator handrail attached to the door, but by this time all storage sites were at three stages from sidewalk level. For natural ventilation, the roof of the cabin was equipped with four ceiling hatches, and sliding side window panes. Currently, the only instance of ZIU-9B is preserved and operated in the city of Zaporozhye and has the side number 562.

ZiU-682V (B00/B0A)

At the end of 1976, mass production of the updated ZiU- 682V began, which replaced the ZiU- 682B. Due to the presence of design flaws that emerged during the first years of operation, rather than jet thrust-bearing elements such as suspension springs were used. Since 1976, the number of fixtures in the cabin has been reduced from 12 to 11, every other window in the cabin lost air vents. Since 1978, the number of ceiling hatches reduced to three (due to the hatch on the front axle), and steel trolley equipped with electric shtangoulovitelyami (apparently on the orders, since their machines in Moscow weren't there until 1996).

Since 1983, changed the shape and location of the front and rear position lamps. Lights original form, informally called "boats" have been replaced by unified and offset edges closer to route indicators. In 1985, similar design changes underwent external signal lights and turn indicators.

From March through May 1984 trolleybuses were produced without the low-level rear accumulation area, which was due to the need to strengthen the base structure of the body in the rear overhang. In 1985, the nameplate trolley was partially aligned with the standards forming the VIN code, which led to a change in marking HTI682V00.

Since 1988, the plant switched to production modifications ZiU- 682V -012 (ZiU- 682V0A) powered DC -213 capacity of 115 kW. Since 1989, changed the shape of the housing radioreaktors roof trolley, it has decreased in size and had a sharp edge. In 1989, production started in parallel transition modification ZiU- 682V0B on which the electric drive door opener was replaced with a pneumatic system.

ZiU-682G 

By the end of 1980, individual components trolley manufactured at that time was almost 20 years, significantly outdated. Therefore, simultaneously with the launch of a series of recent modifications ZiU- 682V preparing to produce a more profound modernization of the model trolley, which was designated ZiU- 682G. Experienced instances ZiU- 682G were released in 1988, and since February 1, 1991, the plant has fully passed on its production.

In addition to the changes already introduced earlier models ZiU 682V0A - and - ZiU 682V0B model ZiU- 682G have received the following differences. Front, under the windshield, placed the intake grille. Changed the location of windows with vents along the starboard side. Undergone significant redevelopment salon trolley. Most of the seats along the left side of the body were replaced with a double row on row, which increased the number of standing places. Changed the design of seats themselves and their handrails. Big changes undergone cab. Partition behind the driver, which had previously oval window became deaf; extended sliding door in the driver's cabin. In the cabin itself changed the layout of the dashboard, which became made of black plastic. Out of the past neergonomichny remote control trolley bus right from the dashboard, consisting of two long rows of identical tumblers. Control of external light devices was moved to the steering column. On a dedicated right panel were only control door opening, the wiper switch, and the alarm. Other switches were transferred to the new control panel by trolley to the left of the driver's side near the window. Redesigned suspension and brake pedals at the same time control approached the car.

On the other hand, ZiU- 682G was supplied to provincial towns, from 1993–2000., Compared with the previous model ZiU- 682V had significantly lighter load-bearing elements of the frame component of the supporting frame (apparently, to reduce cost). As a result, in severe operating conditions (e.g. in Nizhny Novgorod) for 5 years, these structural elements to rot completely corroded, and punctured a gentle kick screwdriver.
Since 1997, the base modification in mass production became ZiU- 682G -012 (ZiU- 682G0A). An external difference between the new modification was reduced in the height side window of the cab, which also has another location pane. Minor changes have been planning the c