[Heredity and Environment — Morgan — Gutenberg #17510]

he said steadily, "but I--I'm no longer on the staff of St. Michael's. My hand was shaking and--and the chief knew why. And, dad," he faced the old Doctor squarely, "I'm coming back home to keep your practise out of Price's fool hands. You've always wanted that and my chief has preached it too, though I couldn't see it somehow until to-day. And presently, sir, when--when my hand is steadier, I'm going to make the little chap walk and run. I've--promised Sister Madge." And the old Doctor cleared his throat and gulped--and finally he wiped his glasses and walked away to the window. For of all things God could give him--this surely was the best! "Oh, grandpop," cried little John Leslie 3rd, bolting into the study in great excitement--"Come see Roger! We kids have made him the Christmas king and he's got a crown o' holly on and--and a wand and he's a-tappin' us this way with it to make us Knights. And I'm the Fir-tree Knight--and Bob--he's a Cedar Knight and Ned's a spruce and Roger--he says his pretty sister tells him stories like that smarter'n any in the books. Oh--do hurry!" The old Doctor held out his hand to his son. "Well, Doctor Ralph," he said huskily, "suppose we go tell mother." So while the Doctor told Aunt Ellen, Ralph bent his knee to this excited Christmas King enthroned in the heart of the fire-shadows. "Rise--" said Roger radiantly, tapping him with a cedar wand, "I--I dub thee first of all my knights--the good, kind Christmas Knight!" "And here," said Ralph, smiling, "here's Sister Madge. What grand title now shall we give to her?" But as Sister Madge knelt before him with firelit shadows dancing in her sweet, dark eyes, Roger dropped the wand and buried his face on her shoulder with a little sob. "Nothing good enough for Sister Madge, eh?" broke in the old Doctor, looking up. "Well, sir, I think you're right." Now in the silence Aunt Ellen spoke and her words were like a gentle Christmas benediction. "'Unto us,'" said Aunt Ellen Leslie as she turned the Christmas log, "'this night a son is given!'" But Ralph, by the window, had not heard. For wakening again in his heart as he stared at the peaceful, moonlit, "God-made" hills--was the old forgotten boyish love for this rugged, simple life of his father's dwarfing the lure of the city and the mockery of his fashionable friends. And down the lane of years ahead, bright with homely happiness and service to the needs of others--was the dark and winsome face of Sister Madge, stirring him to ardent resolution. Part Two In Which We Light the New Log with the Embers of the Old I The Fire Again "Doctor!" said little Roger slyly, "you got your chin stuck out!" The Doctor stroked his grizzled beard in hasty apology. "God bless my soul," he admitted guiltily. "I do believe I have. You've been so quiet," he added accusingly, "curled up there by the fire that I must certainly have gotten lonesome. And I most always stick out my chin that way when I'm lonesome." Roger, by way of reparation, betook himself to the arm of the Doctor's chair. The Doctor's arm closed tight around him. A year ago this little adopted son of his had been very lame. It was the first Christmas in his life, indeed, that he had walked. "Out there," said the Doctor, "the winter twilight's been fighting the alder berries with purple spears. It's conquered everything in the garden and covered it up with misty velvet save the snow and the berries. But the twilight's using heavier spears now and likely it'll win. _I_ want the alder berries to win out, drat it! Their blaze is so bright and cheerful." Roger accepted the challenge to argument with enthusiasm. "_I_ want the twilight to win," he said. The Doctor looked slightly scandalized. "Oh, my, my, my, my!" he said. "I can't for the life of me understand any such gloomy preference as that. Bless me, if I can." "Why," crowed Roger jubilantly, "_I_ can, 'cause the more twilighty it gets, the more it's Christmas eve!" The Doctor regarded his small friend with admiration. "By George," he admitted, "I do believe you have me there--" but the Doctor's kindly eyes did not fire to the name of Christmas as Roger thought they ought. "Almost," he said, "I thought you were going to stick out your chin again. And you're not lonesome now 'cause I'm here an' pretty noisy." "Hum!" said the Doctor. "Man to man, now!" urged Roger suddenly. This was the accepted key to a confessional ceremony which required much politeness and ruthless honesty. "Well, Mr. Hildreth," began the Doctor formally. Roger's face fell. "I'm your adopted son," he hinted, "and you said that made my name same as yours." "Mr. Leslie!" corrected the Doctor, and Roger glowed. "Well, Mr. Leslie," went on the Doctor thoughtfully, "I'm chuck full of grievances. There's the rheumatism in my leg, for instance. That's no sort of thing to have at Christmas." "But that's better," said Roger. "You said so this morning. I 'spect you been thinkin' too much about it like you said I did when my leg was stiff." "Ahem! And I did hope somebody would come home for Christmas. I like a house full of romping youngsters--" Roger pointed an accusing finger. "Aunt Ellen says every blessed one of your children, an' your grand-children too, begged and begged you to come to the city for Christmas an'--an' you wouldn't go 'cause you're old-fashioned and like a country Christmas so much better--an'--an' because you'd promised to teach me to skate on the Deacon's pond an' take me sleighin'." "Dear me," said the Doctor helplessly, "for such a mite of a kiddy, you do seem remarkably well informed." "Man to man," reminded Roger inexorably and the Doctor aired his final grievance. "And then there's that youngest son of mine--" "Doctor Ralph?" "Doctor Ralph! What right had he, I'd like to know, to marry that pretty sister of yours and go off honeymooning holiday time. Didn't he know that we needed him and Sister Madge here for Christmas? I miss 'em both. Young pirate!" Roger's heart swelled with loyalty. It was Doctor Ralph's skilful hand that had helped him walk. "Most likely," he said fairly, "I'm a little to blame there. After I came home from the hospital, I did tell Sister Madge to marry him--" "Most likely," acknowledged the Doctor, "I said something similar to Doctor Ralph. I can't have you shouldering all the responsibility. Well, your Honor, there's the Christmas evidence. What's the verdict?" Roger considered. This man to man game had certain phraseological conclusions. "No case!" he said suddenly, nor would he alter his decision when the Doctor protested against its severity. "You had so awful many peoply sort of places to go," pointed out Roger, and the Doctor laughed. "And let you spend this first Christmas on your two legs in a _city_?" he demanded. "Well, I guess not! No-sir-ee-bob! There!--the alder berries have faded out and the garden's thick with twilight." "And it's Christmas eve!" cried Roger, his black eyes shining with delight. "Speaking of Christmas," said the Doctor, sniffing luxuriously, "I feel that I ought to slip out to the kitchen for a minute or so. I do smell something tremendously Christmasy and spicy--" Roger caught his breath. With a Christmas intrigue as surely in the air as the smell of spice, here was dangerous ground. "Aunt Ellen," he faltered, "Aunt Ellen said she couldn't pos'bly be bothered with--with any men folks in the kitchen--not even me." "Pooh!" rebelled the Doctor largely, "that's merely a ruse of hers to protect the cookies. And what I'd like to know is just this--what's Aunt Ellen doing in the kitchen anyway? Certainly old Annie's able to do the Christmas fussing for three people. Aunt Ellen ought to be in here with us. That was part of my lonesome grievance but I forgot to mention it." Roger, shivering apprehensively, visioned suspicious stores of Christmas delicacies--holly and evergreen--and a supper table set for _ten_! And off somewhere among those purple spears of twilight old Asher, the hired man, was waiting at the station with the big farm sleigh. He must keep his eye upon the Doctor until six o'clock, and lure him away from the window. "Tell me a story," begged Roger--"over here by the fire." And his voice was so very tremulous and urgent that the hungry Doctor abandoned his notion of a Christmas cookie, and complied. To Roger, in a nervous ecstasy of anticipation, the story was a blurred hodge-podge of phrases and crackling fire, distant noises of clinking china and hurrying feet, and wild flights of imagination.... Old Asher must be coming past the red barn now ... and now down the hill ... and now past the Deacon's pond ... and now-- Sleigh-bells fairly leaped out of the quiet, and Roger jumped and gulped, aquiver with excitement. The Doctor regarded him with mild disfavor. "Bless my soul," he said in surprise, "that was the quietest part of my story. You're restless." "Go on!" said Roger hoarsely, and the obliging Doctor, mistaking his agitation for interest, went on with his tale. But Roger had heard old Asher driving along by the picket fence and turning in at the gate-posts, and the story was no more to him than the noisy crackle of the log. Off somewhere in the region of the kitchen door he detected a subdued scuffle of many feet. The grandfather's clock struck six.... Roger's cheeks were blazing--the fire and the Doctor still duetting.... Why, oh, why didn't somebody come and call them to supper?... There had been plenty of time now for everything. Why-- The door swung back and Roger jumped. Old Annie, Asher's wife, stood in the doorway, her wrinkled face inscrutable. "Supper, sir!" she said and vanished. Hand in hand, the Doctor and Roger went out to supper. The dining-room door was closed. That in itself was unusual. But the unsuspecting Doctor pushed through with Roger at his heels, only to halt and stare dumfounded over his spectacles while Roger screamed and danced and clapped his hands. For to the startled eyes of Doctor John Leslie, the snug, old-fashioned room was alive with boys and holly--boys and boys and boys upon boys, he would have told you in that first instant of delighted consternation, in different stages of embarrassment and rags. And one had but to glance at the faces of old Asher and Annie in the kitchen doorway, at Aunt Ellen, hovering near her Christmas brood with the look of all mothers in her kind, brown eyes, and then at