# Lucky Star (manga)

is a Japanese four-panel comic strip manga series by Kagami Yoshimizu. It has been serialized in Kadokawa Shoten's Comptiq magazine since December 2003. Cameo strips were published in other magazines such as Shōnen Ace and others. It has no ongoing plot and typically focuses on the daily lives of the characters.

An audio drama CD based on the series was released in August 2005, and the series spawned four video games released between 2005 and 2009. A 24-episode anime adaptation produced by Kyoto Animation aired between April 8 and September 16, 2007. The anime was licensed in North America by Kadokawa Pictures and distributed by Bandai Entertainment; six DVDs have been released between May 2008 and March 2009. An original video animation (OVA) episode was released on September 26, 2008 accompanied by a drama CD. Bandai Entertainment released the OVA in an English-sub only version on August 4, 2009. The anime is currently licensed by Crunchyroll, formerly known as Funimation. Viz Media acquired the rights to publish the manga digitally in 2014.

A spin-off manga, Miyakawa-ke no Kūfuku, began serialization in January 2008 in Kadokawa Shoten's Comp H's magazine. An anime adaptation by Ordet and Encourage Films began airing on Ustream in April 2013.

Synopsis

Lucky Stars story mainly portrays the lives of four girls attending a Japanese high school. The setting is mainly based on the city of Kuki in Saitama Prefecture. The main character is Konata Izumi, a lazy girl who constantly shirks her schoolwork and instead uses most of her time to watch anime, play video games, and read manga. Although she is lazy, she has also proven to be very intelligent and athletic.

The serialization began with the four main characters in their first year of high school: Konata Izumi, Kagami Hiiragi, Tsukasa Hiiragi, and Miyuki Takara. As the story progresses, they move on to their second and third years. However, the anime starts the story with them beginning their second year, and the other high school girls that are seen in the opening are only introduced halfway through the series. The storyline usually includes numerous references to popular past and present manga, anime, and tokusatsu series.

The spin-off manga, Miyakawa-ke no Kūfuku, focuses on the daily lives of two sisters, Hinata and Hikage Miyakawa, who live an impoverished life due to Hinata's wasteful habits.

Media

Manga
The four-panel comic strip manga version of Lucky Star started serialization in Kadokawa Shoten's magazine Comptiq's January 2004 issue sold on December 10, 2003. The first tankōbon volume of the manga was published on January 8, 2005, and as of October 26, 2013, ten volumes have been released. Besides Comptiq, the manga was also featured in other Kadokawa magazines including Shōnen Ace, Newtype, Comp Ace, Dragon Magazine, Mobile Newtype and Kadokawa Hotline for various lengths of time. The manga went on a lengthy hiatus beginning in 2014, later returning to regular serialization in Kadokawa's Mitaina! magazine on November 10, 2022. The manga was licensed by Bandai Entertainment for release in English in North America, and the first volume was released in June 2009. Following Bandai Entertainment's closure, the manga has been licensed by Viz Media.

A spin-off manga titled Lucky Star Pocket Travelers (らき☆すた ポケットとらべら〜ず, Raki☆Suta Poketto Toraberāzu), which has the four main characters waking up one morning to discover they have shrunken to doll size, was serialized in Comp Ace between the January and August 2008 issues. A single volume of Pocket Travelers was released on October 10, 2008.

Another spin-off manga, based on the Lucky Star Moe Drill video games and titled , began serialization in the January 2008 issue of Kadokawa Shoten's Comp H's magazine. The magazine transferred to Comp Ace with the June 2009 issue, and has also been featured in Comptiq. The first volume of Miyakawa-ke no Kūfuku was released on June 26, 2012.

An official parody manga titled  by manga artist Eretto was serialized in Comp Ace between the July 2008 and December 2009 issues. A single volume of Boo Boo Kagaboo was released on March 18, 2010.

Another spin-off manga, based on the Miyakawa-ke no Kūfuku manga and titled  by manga artist Tsubomi Hanabana and cuisine supervisor Etsuko Ichise was serialized in Comp Ace between the November 2013 and May 2014 issues. A single volume of Miyakawa-ke ga Mampuku!? was released on July 10, 2014.

In November 2022, shortly after returning from its 8 year hiatus, a new spin-off tentatively titled  was announced. It is to be set 15 years after the original series.

Anime

The Lucky Star anime, produced by Kyoto Animation, aired between April 8, 2007, and September 16, 2007, containing twenty-four episodes. After the first four episodes, series director Yutaka Yamamoto was fired from his position and was subsequently replaced by Yasuhiro Takemoto. The reason given was that: "Our company has determined that the director of Lucky Star—Yutaka Yamamoto—has not reached the standard of director yet, therefore we have changed the director."

Near the end of every episode, there is an additional segment called  co-hosted by Akira Kogami and her assistant Minoru Shiraishi. The humor of this segment takes on a decidedly darker, mean-spirited, more cynical and mature tone than the main show, disguised as an infomercial that skims over characters who appear in the anime, but mainly deals with the progressively abusive and violent work-relationship between Akira and Minoru. Akira is a typical "cute excitable girl" character while going through her script, but instantly changes to a bored, perpetually annoyed character the moment her segment is officially done and sometimes before then too. The anime also features small cameos of voice actors besides Shiraishi that also have worked with Kyoto Animation which include Yuko Goto, Minori Chihara, Tomokazu Sugita, Daisuke Ono, and Aya Hirano, all of whom voice themselves.

Kadokawa Pictures USA and Bandai Entertainment announced that they licensed the Lucky Star anime with a teaser trailer as a special feature on the volume 4 DVD of The Melancholy of Haruhi Suzumiya. The first four English DVD volumes were released by Bandai Entertainment in 2008 on May 6, July 1, September 2, and November 18. The fifth and sixth volumes were released in 2009 on January 6 and March 17. However, the sixth volume's limited edition release has been canceled due to low sales of the other volumes' limited editions. Bandai released a six-disc DVD box set on April 6, 2010 as a complete collection under their Anime Legends line. As much as possible, the English cast was paired with the same characters as those of the Japanese voice actors from past shows, in order to translate the anime references clearly. For example, Wendee Lee voiced the lead roles for both Haruhi Suzumiya and Lucky Star, in reference to their original voice actor, Aya Hirano. At AmeCon 2010, European anime distributor Beez Entertainment announced that they have the distributions rights to both TV series and OVA, and will be released in two half season sets. Following the 2012 closure of Bandai Entertainment, Funimation Entertainment (now known as Crunchyroll) announced at Otakon 2014 that they have licensed the anime television series, which they released on Blu-ray and DVD on July 12, 2016.

A pre-announcement was made in Kadokawa Shoten's Comptiq magazine that an original video animation project would be produced for Lucky Star. The June 2008 issue of Comptiq reported that the OVA was due out in summer 2008. However, it was delayed and instead was released on September 26, 2008. The OVA features six separate stories revolving around the cast, some of which border on the bizarre; one of which is an MMORPG environment being played by Konata, Kagami, Tsukasa, and Nanako Kuroi, and another in which Kagami has a 'suggestive' dream about Konata. The Lucky Channel segment is performed in live-action rather than being animated. The ending theme to the OVA, , is sung by Uchōten, which is composed of the singers Hiromi Konno and Minoru Shiraishi. The song was originally the opening theme to Fist of the North Star. The North American release of the OVA was later licensed by Bandai Entertainment, and was released in a subbed-only DVD on August 4, 2009. As with the TV series, the OVA has also been re-licensed to Funimation.

An anime adaptation of Miyakawa-ke no Kūfuku, produced by Ordet and Encourage Films, streamed on Ustream from April 29 to July 1, 2013. The opening theme is "Kachigumi" by Konata Izumi (Hirano) and Kagami Hiiragi (Emiri Katō), and the ending theme is "Makegumi" by Hinata and Hikage Miyakawa (Maina Shimagata and Koto Kawasaki).  by Hiromi Konno was used as an insert song in episode one.

Books
There have been five light novels based on the series published by Kadokawa Shoten under their Kadokawa Sneaker Bunko label. The three novels are written by Tōka Takei and featur