# Order of Saint Anna

The Imperial Order of Saint Anna (; also "Order of Saint Anne" or "Order of Saint Ann") was a Holstein ducal and then Russian imperial order of chivalry. It was established by Karl Friedrich, Duke of Holstein-Gottorp, on 14 February 1735, in honour of his wife Anna Petrovna, daughter of Peter the Great of Russia.

Originally, the Order of Saint Anna was a dynastic order of knighthood; but between 1797 and 1917 it had dual status as a dynastic order and as a state order. The Order of St. Anna continued to be awarded after the revolution by Grand Duke Kirill Vladimirovich, Grand Duke Vladimir Kirillovich, and Grand Duchess Maria Vladimirovna. Today, the Russian Imperial Order of St. Anna, awarded by Grand Duchess Maria Vladimirovna is recognized as an order of chivalry by the privately operated ICOC as a continuation of the pre-Revolutionary order, and has been approved for wear with military uniform by the Russian Federation, but not by some members of the Romanov Family Association.

Membership of the Order was awarded for a distinguished career in civil service or for valour and distinguished service in the military. The Order of Saint Anna entitled recipients of the first class to hereditary nobility, and recipients of lower classes to personal nobility. For military recipients, it was awarded with swords. It is now usually awarded for meritorious service to the Imperial House of Russia.

Recipients of the Order of St. Andrew (K.A.) (including grand dukes, who received the order at baptism, and princes of the Imperial blood, who received it at their majority) simultaneously received the first class of the Order of Saint Anna.  The Emperor himself was the hereditary grand master of the Order.

The motto of the Order is "Amantibus Justitiam, Pietatem, Fidem" ("To those who love justice, piety, and fidelity").  Its festival day is 3 February (New Style, 16 February). The Head of the Imperial House of Russia always is Master of the imperial Order of Saint Anna.

History
At first, the Order had but one class and was named the "Order of Anna".  The statutes of the Order promulgated in 1735 established as the principal insignia a red-enameled gold cross, with an image of Saint Anne imposed upon the centre of the cross; the reverse bore the initials "A.I.P.F." (for "Anna Imperatoris Petri Filia":  "Anna, Emperor Peter's daughter" in Latin). The same letters also abbreviate the Latin motto (as the letter "J" did not exist in Latin, "Iustitiam" was the original spelling of the word now rendered "Justitiam").

In 1742, Karl Peter Ulrich, Duke Karl Friedrich's son, was declared the Russian heir apparent.  After arriving in Russia, he presented the Order to several courtiers. On 15 April 1797, his own son, Emperor Paul I of Russia, established the Order as part of the Imperial Russian system of honours and divided it into three classes, renaming it the "Order of Saint Anna".  Emperor Alexander I added a fourth class in 1815.

The title of Chekhov's well-known story Anna on the Neck refers both to the Order and to the heroine.

In Chapter IV of Crime and Punishment, Raskolnikov guesses that Luzhin must have, "...the Anna in his buttonhole and that he puts it on when he goes to dine with contractors or merchants."

Insignia

Methods of wear

 1st class: Cross worn at the bow of a broad ribbon (ten centimeters wide, worn over the left shoulder), on the right hip; star of the Order (about 95 millimeters in diameter) worn on the right breast
 2nd class: Cross worn on a neck ribbon, 45 millimeters wide
 3rd class: Cross worn on the left ribbon, suspended from a ribbon 28 millimeters wide
 4th class: Cross borne on the pommel of an edged weapon, together with a silver-tasselled sword-knot of the ribbon of the Order

The medal ribbon was red with narrow yellow edging.

A recipient of higher classes of the Order would not wear the insignia of lower classes, unless he had also been awarded the fourth class (the insignia of which was borne on the hilt of a sword or other edged weapon).

Bibliography
Alan W. Hazelton, The Russian Imperial Orders; New York:  The American Numismatic Society, 1932 (Numismatic Notes and Monograms, No. 51).

Guy Stair Sainty (Ed.) “World Orders of Knighthood and Merit” London: Burke's Peerage, 2006.

Notable recipients 

1st Class
Alexander Abaza
Frederick Adam
Adolphus Frederick V, Grand Duke of Mecklenburg-Strelitz
Adrian Nepenin
Hasan bey Agalarov
Ahmad Shah Qajar
Albert I of Belgium
Prince Albert of Prussia (1809–1872)
Archduke Albrecht, Duke of Teschen
Albert, Prince Consort
Mikhail Alekseyev
Ilya I. Alekseyev
Yevgeni Ivanovich Alekseyev
Alexander I of Russia
Alexander I of Yugoslavia
Alexander II of Russia
Alexander III of Russia
Alexander Nikolaevich Golitsyn
Alexander of Battenberg
Prince Alexander of Hesse and by Rhine
Duke Alexander of Oldenburg
Duke Alexander of Württemberg (1771–1833)
Alexei Arbuzov (general)
Alexei Nikolaevich, Tsarevich of Russia
Gyula Andrássy
Teodor Andrault de Langeron
Stepan Andreyevskiy
Alexander Cambridge, 1st Earl of Athlone
Prince August, Duke of Dalarna
Prince August of Württemberg
Prince Augustus of Prussia
Theodor Avellan
Karl Gustav von Baggovut
Alexander Bagration of Mukhrani
Pyotr Bagration
Aleksei Baiov
Mikhail Bakhirev
Jafargulu Bakikhanov
Pyotr Baluyev
Alexander Barclay de Tolly-Weymarn
Michael Andreas Barclay de Tolly
Nikolai Bardovsky
Edward Barnes (British Army officer)
Pavel Bashutsky
Mikhail Batyanov
Vasili Bebutov
Alexander von Benckendorff (diplomat)
Konstantin von Benckendorff
Ilya Berezin
Pyotr Bezobrazov
Aleksandr Aleksandrovich Bibikov
Alexander Alexandrovich von Bilderling
Aleksei Birilev
Otto von Bismarck
Gebhard Leberecht von Blücher
Georgy Bobrikov
Nikolai Bobyr
Woldemar von Boeckmann
Alexander Bozheryanov
Władysław Grzegorz Branicki
Walther Bronsart von Schellendorff
Aleksei Brusilov
Pavel Bulgakov
Prince Carl, Duke of Västergötland
Carlos I of Portugal
Charles XV
Alexander Chavchavadze
Grigori Chernozubov
Alexander Chernyshyov
Seraphim Chichagov
Grigory Choglokov
Christian IX of Denmark
Grigoriy Pavlovich Chukhnin
Andrzej Ciechanowiecki
Prince Constantine of Imereti (1789–1844)
Didi-Niko Dadiani
Mikhail Pavlovich Danilov
Dmitry Dashkov
Henri Roussel de Courcy
Dmitry Petrovich Dokhturov
Leopold Wilhelm von Dobschütz
Józef Dowbor-Muśnicki
Alexander Drenteln
Mikhail Drozdovsky
Pavel Grigorievich Dukmasov
Alexander Alexandrovich Dushkevich
Andrei Eberhardt
Edward VII
Carl August Ehrensvärd (1858–1944)
Johann Martin von Elmpt
Grigori Engelhardt
Nikolai Epanchin
Ernest I, Duke of Saxe-Coburg and Gotha
Ernest Louis, Grand Duke of Hesse
Gaston Errembault de Dudzeele (died 1888)
Gaston Errembault de Dudzeele (died 1929)
Archduke Eugen of Austria
Aleksei Evert
Ferdinand I of Bulgaria
Ferdinand II of Portugal
Archduke Ferdinand Karl Joseph of Austria-Este
Hans William von Fersen
Nikolai Filatov
Vladimir Nikolayevich Filipov
Vasily Flug
Dmitry Gustavovich von Fölkersahm
Francis IV, Duke of Modena
Franz Joseph I of Austria
Archduke Franz Karl of Austria
Frederick VIII of Denmark
Frederick Francis III, Grand Duke of Mecklenburg-Schwerin
Frederick I, Grand Duke of Baden
Archduke Friedrich, Duke of Teschen
Friedrich, Duke of Schleswig-Holstein-Sonderburg-Glücksburg
Ivan Fullon
Vasily Gabashvili
Apollon Galafeyev
Yermolay Gamper
Ivan Ganetsky
Ivan Gannibal
Charles Gascoigne
Gavriil Gagarin
George V
Aleksandr Gerngross
Alexander Gertsyk
Alexander von Güldenstubbe
August Neidhardt von Gneisenau
Vasily Golovnin
Vladimir Gorbatovsky
Eugène Goüin
Ivan Grigorovich
Oskar Gripenberg
Gustaf V
Gustaf VI Adolf
Gustav, Prince of Vasa
Haakon VII of Norway
Sir Robert Hart, 1st Baronet
Lodewijk van Heiden
Prince Heinrich of Hesse and by Rhine
Herbert Holman
Dmitry Horvat
Alexander Ievreinov
Gavriil Ignatyev
Illarion Vasilchikov
Alexander Imeretinsky
Yevgeni Iskritsky
Nikola Ivanov
Grigory Ivanovich Villamov
Archduke John of Austria
Prince Johann of Schleswig-Holstein-Sonderburg-Glücksburg
John VI of Portugal
Joseph, Duke of Saxe-Altenburg
Georg von Kameke
Kyprian Kandratovich
Nikolay Karamzin
Karl Anton, Prince of Hohenzollern
Karl, Duke of Schleswig-Holstein-Sonderburg-Glücksburg
Prince Karl Theodor of Bavaria
Nikolai Kashtalinsky
Alexander von Kaulbars
Paisi Kaysarov
Gustav von Kessel
Terence Keyes
Pyotr Kikin
Jan Hendrik van Kinsbergen
Vladimir Kislitsin
Hans von Koester
Alexander Kolchak
Grand Duke Konstantin Konstantinovich of Russia
Grand Duke Konstantin Nikolayevich of Russia
Grand Duke Konstantin Pavlovich of Russia
Konstantin Poltoratsky
Konstantin of Hohenlohe-Schillingsfürst
Apostol Kostanda
Wincenty Krasiński
Vasily Kravkov
Gerhard Christoph von Krogh
Aleksey Kuropatkin
Aglay Dmitriyevich Kuzmin-Korovaev
Kyrill (Dmitrieff)
Sergey Stepanovich Lanskoy
Pavel Pavlovich Lebedev
Leonid Lesh
Leopold I of Belgium
Leopold II of Belgium
Leopold IV, Duke of Anhalt
Alexander Mikhailovich Lermontov
George Maximilianovich, 6th Duke of Leuchtenberg
Sergei Georgievich, 8th Duke of Leuchtenberg