# Kunwar Pratap Singh Barhath

Kunwar Pratap Singh Barhath (25 May 1893 – 7 May 1918), also known as ‘Kunwar Ji’, was an Indian anti-British activist known for his role in the revolutionary plot to assassinate the Viceroy of India, Charles Hardinge, in 1912. He was a prominent member of the Revolutionary Party led by Rash Behari Bose. 

In December 1912, at the procession of the Viceroy in Delhi, Singh was with his uncle, Zorawar Singh Barhath, who threw the bomb at Hardinge. He led the Benaras Conspiracy, part of the larger Ghadar Movement, in the armed rebellion of 1915 against the British Raj. In 1916, he was arrested and imprisoned in the Banaras Conspiracy Case and sentenced to five years in jail. Subjected to brutal physical torture to weaken him, he refused to divulge the names of other co-conspirators and died on 7 May 1918.

Singh was part of the celebrated Barhath family of Shahpura State (now in Bhilwara district) whose members were prominent revolutionary leaders in the freedom struggle against the British Raj. Thakur Krishna Singh Barhath, his sons Thakur Kesari Singh Barhath and Thakur Zorawar Singh Barhath and grandson Kunwar Pratap Singh Barhath (son of Thakur Kesari Singh) took part in the freedom struggle and devoted their lives and belongings for the cause of Indian independence.

Early life 
Kunwar Pratap Singh was born on 25 May 1893 in Udaipur at Kaviraja Shyamaldas Haveli. He was a member of the affluent Barhath family who were aristocrats in Rajputana and jagirdars of Devpura (Shahpura State). At the time, Pratap's father, Thakur Kesari Singh Barhath, was serving as Chief Counsellor to the Maharana of Mewar. He was later invited to join the court of the Maharaja of Kota State, where he served as a member of the Council. Hence, Pratap's childhood was spent in Kota.

Thakur Kesari Singh Barhath was a high priority of British CID (Crime Investigation Department) to be monitored at all times. He encouraged Pratap Singh.

Pratap Singh completed his education at Herbert High School Kota and later at DAV High School, Ajmer.

In his father's view, English-medium colleges like Mayo College Ajmer, where the feudal and ruling class of Rajputana sent their children to study, were creating an inferiority complex among the students. He wished to promote nationalist education in which the students learned about the history and culture of their nation. Therefore, Pratap was sent at a young age to Arjunlal Sethi who ran 'Vardhman Pathshala' in Jaipur which secretly gave training in revolutionary activities. Later, Pratap was introduced to Rash Behari Bose. When the school moved to Indore, Kesari Singh thought it best send Pratap to Delhi. Although Kesari Singh was in a high position in the native states, he was also secretly connected to the Revolutionary Party. Thus, he sent his younger brother, Thakur Zoravar Singh Barath, his son Pratap and son-in-law Ishwar Dan Ashiya to Master Amirchand, another nationalist, in Delhi.

Training 
In Delhi, Amirchand had trained Pratap for revolutionary activities, including disguise, collecting secret news from government offices, and establishing contacts with soldiers and youths. Amirchand was impressed by Singh, recommending to Bose that he be given responsibility for the Revolutionary Party in Rajasthan.

Revolutionary Party 
Amirchand introduced Singh to Bose as a highly trustworthy, capable, and brave person. Bose inducted him to the Revolutionary Party and he became a prominent member and Bose's right-hand man. He had a leading part in revolutionary projects in Delhi, United Provinces, and Rajasthan. In Rajasthan, he took steps to inspire the soldiers in Ajmer and other British Army cantonments to lead them to revolt against the British.

The 20 year-old Singh began travelling to prepare people for the freedom struggle.

Delhi-Lahore Conspiracy / Hardinge Bomb Case(1912) 

On 23 December 1912, Zorawar Singh and Pratap Singh went to the roof of the building of Marwari College in Chandni Chowk, Delhi. They wore a disguise and went on the roof, where Zorawar Singh threw a bomb directed at Lord Hardinge. Lord Harding was gravely injured but survived the attack while one of his guards died at the impact. After the bombing, both Zorawar Singh and his nephew Pratap Singh absconded from the place and remained hidden. The police made frantic efforts to catch the revolutionaries and even announced a reward of Rs. 1 Lakh for any clue.

Pratap Singh and his brother-in-law, Ishwar Dan Ashiya were arrested by the police but were subsequently released due to lack of evidence.

The authorities arrested other revolutionaries associated with Revolutionary Party named Bhai Balmukund Das and Basanta Kumar Biswas who were later executed. Zorawar Singh remained uncaught and spent his life as an outlaw in the ravines of Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan.

Escape from Delhi 
Pratap Singh and Zoravar Singh had to escape Delhi and they came to the banks of Yamuna. They couldn't cross at the time since there was flooding in the river. For seven hours, Pratap Singh sometimes swam, sometimes dived and sometimes hanged by the chains of the bridge. When it got dark enough, they swam across the river. Pratap Singh was very tired, when he reached the shore, and fell unconscious. Two police constables who saw him crossing became suspicious of him. Zoravar Singh slashed both of them with his sword and carried Pratap Singh on his back.

When Zorawar Singh & Pratap Singh left from Delhi after throwing the bomb, they walked about forty miles in a day. A spy followed them from there. After a few days, when they were leaving the border of Banswara, the spy alerted the Nakadar and told him to catch them. Zoravar Singh immediately razed that Nakadar with his sword and both of them fled from there.

Preparation for Armed Rebellion-Ghadar(1915) 

Singh secretly started fomenting rebellion among the Rajput soldiers. He moved from place to place, sometimes in Rajputana, sometimes in Punjab and sometimes in Hyderabad in South India. He and his brother-in-law, Ishwar Dan Asiya, were arrested by the police in the Delhi conspiracy, but were freed due to lack of evidence. On the other hand, his father, Thakur Kesari Singh Barhath, was tried in the Kota Murder Case and was sentenced to life imprisonment in 1914. Meanwhile, his uncle Zoravar Singh had been sentenced to death in the Arrah conspiracy but had escaped. The properties  of both Kesari and Zoravar were confiscated.

After the bombings in Delhi, Bose had moved to Kashi and from there to Navadvipa. Hiding there, they were trying to successfully implement the plan of rebellion. Singh avoided the presence of British military and police to join Bose. It was decided that on 21 February 1915, an armed rebellion would be signalled from Benaras. During this time, the members of the team would contact the military cantonments and collect a large amount of guns and other armaments. Taking advice from Bose, Singh moved to Rajasthan and started working according to the plan.

Conspiracy to assassinate Reginald Craddock 
In 1914, after the arrests of his father and other prominent figures, the leadership fell onto Singh. He collaborated with dissident soldiers of the British Indian Army in a conspiracy to murder Sir Reginald Craddock, a member of the British Government of India. His murder was supposed to be a signal to Meerut and other garrisons of the Indian Army, part of an armed rebellion against the British. Singh  was entrusted with the assassination, which came to nothing because Craddock failed to appear.

The revolutionaries of the Ghadar Party of Punjab received information that the British Government had come to know about their plan for rebellion, so they decided to change the date but this information could not reach Sachindra Nath Sanyal in time. As per the predetermined schedule, on 21 February 1915, Sanyal along with his associates reached the Parade Ground in Benaras, but the prepared police force present there surrounded them and started arresting them. A total of 25 arrests were made including Sanyal. Meanwhile, Bose feld to Japan. Sanyal was sentenced to life imprisonment. 16 revolutionaries, including Ranveer Singh and Gurcharan Kar, were tried under the Defense of India Act. This trial came to be known as Benaras Conspiracy Case.

Escape to Sindh 
Source:

Soon, as the Benaras Conspiracy Case progressed, arrest warrants against Singh were issued. He evaded the police and continued his secret work travelling around Rajasthan to consolidate the revolutionary organisation. When his father was imprisoned for life, Singh sent a message to him in jail to assure him that he should not worry.

Singh escaped to Hyderabad in Sindh, where he disguised himself and worked as a compounder in a dispensary. He continued to instill in the youth the spirit of revolution and patriotism. On one hand, the police were looking for him, while on the other hand, his fellow revolutionaries also started searching for him am