[The Physical Basis of Life — Huxley — Gutenberg #38262]

us good-morning and retired. "I had made acquaintance with the general, and we were laughing and talking together when he suddenly started and turned pale. "`Great heavens!' he cried, `it is Eenie, my daughter. Black Bess, her mare, has bolted with her, and is heading straight for the Furies' Leap. She is lost! she is lost!' "I hardly heard the last word. I had struck the spurs into my own good mare, and was off like a meteor. I could see the lady's terrible danger. She was heading for an awful precipice. I saw I might intercept her if I crossed her bows, as a sailor would say. It was a ride for life--we near each other, riding swift as arrows. Onward she comes--onwards I dash, and we are barely fifty yards from the Furies' Leap, when our horses come into collision with fearful force. "I remember nothing more until I open my eyes and find myself in bed, powerless to move. But a beautiful young girl rose from a seat near the window, and, approaching the bed, gave me to drink, but enjoined me to be still. This was Miss Lyell; she nursed me back to life, and the next few weeks seemed all one happy dream." "She loves you?" "She does, and has promised never to be another's." "And she'll be yours, Frank, my boy. Come, I've news to give you. Neither your father nor her father object, except on the score of your youth and hers, and your inexperience of the world. Now, depend upon it, Frank, what your father advises is best. He wants you to spend your next few years in travelling." "And I will," cried Frank; "I'll seek adventures and dangers in every part of the globe--among the snows of the north, amidst the jungles of India, in Afric's bush, and the wild plain-lands of far distant Australia. I care not if I am killed; life without my Eenie is not worth having." "Bravo! Frank," cried Chisholm, jumping up and shaking him by the hand. "I'll go with you; and my friend, Fred Freeman, will go too. There's luck in odd numbers. But don't talk about being killed; it is time that we want to kill, and all the wild beasts we can draw a bead upon." Frank left the gloomy forest a happier man than he had entered it. He was laughing right merrily too. "Bless that dear old fox, though," he was saying; "may he always be jolly and fat and frolicsome 'mid summer's sunshine or winter's snow. That fox was my fate." CHAPTER TWO. FRANK UNDERGOES THE PROCESS OF "HARDENING OFF"--CAMP-LIFE ON THE BANKS OF THE THAMES--A WEEK AMONG RABBITS--"'WARE HARE." There was something about Fred Freeman which is difficult to describe, but which caused everybody to like him. He had the manners of a high-bred English gentleman, but that did not, of course, constitute the something that made him a favourite, because _bon ton_, manners are happily not rare. However, there's no harm in my trying to describe him to you, because he is one of our three heroes. Fred wasn't much, if any, above the middle height; he had a short dark beard and moustache-- they were not black, however. He was very regular in features-- handsome, in fact, handsome when he was in his quiet moods, which he very frequently was, and even more so when merry, for then he was simply all sunshine, and it made you laugh to look at him. He was very unobtrusive. He was a capital shot, and a daring hunter and sportsman, but never boasted about his own doings. His constitution was as tough as india-rubber, and as hard as nails. If there be anything wanting in this description, the reader must supply it himself. Anyhow, Fred was a genuine good fellow. He had hitherto travelled a good deal, sport-intent, chiefly on the Continent; but he jumped at the proposal to go round the world on "a big shoot," as he called it. Freeman was a bachelor, and said he would always remain so; Chisholm O'Grahame was also a bachelor. Perhaps he was seen to the best advantage when his foot was on his native heath, and a covey of grouse ahead of him. He was one of the so-called "lucky dogs" of this world. On the death of an uncle, he would come into a fine old Highland estate. Meanwhile he had nothing to do, and plenty of time to do it in. After his visit to Frank, he went back to see Frank's father, who was delighted at the success of his mission. "Ah," said he, "I'm so pleased! And so you must take the young dog off, and show him the world. But look here, he's in your charge, mind you; and if you take my advice, you'll show him some shooting in England before you go abroad. He's only a hot-house plant as yet; he wants hardening off." Chisholm laughed. "I'll harden him off," he said. And so the hardening-off process commenced at once. Frank was not sorry, after all, to leave the gloom of Epping Forest, and commence a sportsman's life in earnest. The plan adopted by Chisholm and his friend, Fred, to "break young Frank in, and to harden him off," was, I think, a good one. They were to travel a good deal in England, be here to-day and away to-morrow, and visit any of the fens or moors or shores where there was the chance of a week or two of good shooting. That was one part of the plan. The other was that they were, as Fred called it, "to forswear civilisation, and to live in tents;" in other words, to do a deal of camping out, instead of living in hotels or houses of any kind. "How do you think you will like that kind of thing?" asked Chisholm. "Oh, I think it will be perfectly delightful," said Frank, enthusiastically. "But Frank _is_ a bit of a shot, isn't he?" asked Fred. "Always during vacation times," said Frank, speaking for himself. "I used to potter around my father's property. I have done so ever since I was a boy." "Ha! ha!" laughed Chisholm. "Why, you're only a boy yet." "All stuff," said Frank stoutly. "I'll be twenty next birthday." "Well, well," said Chisholm; "but tell Fred what you used to shoot." "Oh, anything about the farms, you know, bar the song-birds; father thought it cruel to kill them. But there were rats, such lots of rats, and sometimes a hawk or a rabbit, or even a hare. Then there were the wild pigeons--wary beggars they are, too; I used to wait for them under the fir-trees." "What, and kill them sitting?" asked Fred. "Well," said Frank, "it isn't sportsman-like, I know; but I could hardly ever get near them else. Then the young rooks were great fun in spring; and mind you, there is many a worse dish to set before a hungry man than rook-pie." "I believe you, lad," said Fred. "Well, I've shot stoats and weasels by the score; and I once shot a polecat, and another day an otter, and another day an owl." "Well, well, well," cried Fred. "What bags you must have made, to be sure! Never mind, you've got the makings of a good sportsman in you. Chisholm and I will bring you out, never fear. Did you often go owl-shooting?" "No," replied Frank; "I only remember one owl, and I don't know which of the two of us had the bigger fright--Ponto the pointer, or myself. I had killed nothing that day but one old rook, a few field-mice, and a snake or two, and we were coming home in the dusk, when some great bird flew heavily out of the ivy-covered old tree near the churchyard. `Down you come, whatever you are,' says I; and bang! bang! went both barrels. He flew a goodly way, but finally fell; and off went Ponto, and off went I in search of him. Ponto _was_ in a way, I can tell you; he wasn't pointing half prettily. `Hoo! hoo! hoo!' the owl was screaming. `Come a bit nearer, and out come both your eyes.' `I'll stand here, anyhow,' Ponto seemed saying, `till master comes up.' Well, Chisholm, when I came up and saw the creature, it looked so like one of the winged images you see on tombstones, that, troth, I thought I'd shot a cherub of some sort." "Well done, Frank," cried Chisholm, laughing. "Now," he continued, pulling a letter from his pocket, "How will this suit? It is from a farmer friend of mine in Berkshire, a rough and right sort of a fellow. He farms about five hundred acres close to the Thames. He invites us down for a rabbit shoot, shall we go?" "Oh! by all means," cried Frank. "I'm ready," said Fred quietly. And that "rabbit shoot" began Frank Willoughby's sporting adventures. They had a whole week of it, and very much they enjoyed it. Chestnut Farm was a dear old-fashioned, rustic, rumble-tumble of a place, with a rolling country all around it, and the river quietly meandering through its midst. They pitched their tent not far from the river; under canvas they lived and ate and slept. Fred Freeman was a capital cook; he built his fire of wood and hung his kettle-pot gipsy fashion on a tripod, and the curries and stews he used to turn out were quite delightful. The farmer and his wife would fain have had them to live in their hospitable dwelling, but being told that Frank was undergoing the process of hardening off and general tuition in camp and sporting life, the good farmer looked at the young man for a moment or two from top to bottom, just as if he had been a colt. "Oh!" he said, with a grunt of satisfaction, "bein' broke, is he? Well, a rare, fine, upstanding one he be. He'll do." But the farmer's wife sent to the tent every day the freshest of butter and sweetest of creamy milk, with eggs that never had time to get cool, and so, on the whole, they were very well off. It was deliciously comfortable, so thought Frank, this camping out. His bed was a hammock, and, though there were at first some things he looked upon as drawbacks, he soon got used to them. If a heavy shower came on it made noise enough to waken the seven sleepers, and large drops used to ooze in through the canvas. The gnats' bites were hard to put up with, but Chisholm comforted him by bidding him "just wait until he went to India and had a touch of the jungle