[The Physical Basis of Life — Huxley — Gutenberg #38262]

bugs." Early to bed and early to rise was our heroes' motto; early to bed to calm and dreamless slumber, such as your dwellers within brick walls never know; early to rise to have a header in the river, and to return to breakfast as fresh as a jack; early to rise to get the lines and punt clear and ready for a few hours' fishing; early to rise if only to hear the birds singing, to watch the squirrels skipping about aloft among the trees, or to observe the thousand-and-one queer ways of the tiny dwellers by the river side, friends in fur and friends in feather. Why, in one week Frank felt himself growing quite a naturalist. They had come down to shoot rabbits, but it must not be supposed that this was all the sport they had down by the charming river; for many wild-fowl fell to Frank's gun, and he procured a good many beautiful specimens of birds, which he took the pains to skin and preserve for the purpose of having them stuffed. A good deal of their time was spent in fishing. They did not catch a Thames salmon, it is true, and grayling were not in season; but there were trout and perch and jack in abundance, and one day, greatly to his joy, Frank landed a lordly pike. "I must tell you this, Mr O'Grahame and gen'l'm'n all," said the farmer to our friends on the very first day of their arrival, "I have an order to kill five hundred to seven hundred rabbits, so there is plenty of sport for you all, and 'specially for the young 'un that's bein' broke; but mind, gen'l'm'n, 'ware hare, that's wot I says, 'ware hare. My man'll go with ye and see it is all right like, and my boys will carry the bags." "Whatever does he mean by `'ware hare'?" asked Frank afterwards. "Why, that we mustn't shoot a hare on any account," replied Chisholm; "rabbits and nothing but rabbits." "Gearge," the farmer's man, went with them every day to help to carry the rabbits our sportsmen killed. On the other hand, there were boys in the rear to help Gearge. Besides Gearge and the boys, there were two dogs--a beautiful setter and a pointer, but good useful country dogs-- dogs that did not think it beneath their dignity to retrieve as well as set and point. The most curious part of the whole business to young Frank, was the fact that these dogs knew a hare from a rabbit at first sight far better than he did. Well, to a young sportsman, to see a beautiful hare pass within easy shooting distance was a great temptation to fire. Frank had his doubts whether Gearge always knew one from the other, or t'other from which, because, no matter what it was, if Gearge saw only a bit of brown fur flitting from one bush to another, he sang out in stentorian tones, "'Ware hare." So it was "'Ware hare" all day long with Gearge. But once Frank did make a mistake, or his gun did, for the latter seemed to rise to his shoulder of its own accord, and next moment a hare was dead. The pointer brought it and laid it solemnly down at Frank's feet, and looked up into his face. "See what you've done," he seemed to say; "here is a pretty kettle of fish. What do you think of yourself? and how do you feel?" And when Gearge came up and saw the result of the accident, his red, round face, which, as a rule, was wreathed in smiles, got long, and his jaw fell, while his eyes seemed wanting to jump out of their sockets. "Well, I never?" said Gearge, rubbing the palms of his hands nervously in his cow-gown, "and I warned ye sir, too." "Bag him," said Frank, "and never mind." "Bag 'im!" cried Gearge, aghast. "Bag _he_, bag a _hare_! No, sir, not if I knows it. Master'd give me the sack myself. We'll leave 'im to the blue-bottles and the beetles; but oh! sir, in future, 'ware hare." "You seem fond of hare-shooting," said Fred that evening, when Frank told him his adventure, or rather misadventure. "Why, if you had been where I was last winter you would have had hare-shooting to your heart's content." "Beaters was it you had?" asked Chisholm. "Yes, we had no dogs; but good sport, mind you--right and left sometimes, and one to each barrel if you only chose to hold straight." About the third morning, when Gearge came to the tent as usual, his face seemed rounder and redder than ever; his eyes, too, were so wreathed in smile-begotten wrinkles that they had almost disappeared. It was moreover observed that the pockets of his cow-gown were more bulky than usual. "We'll have a rare lark to-day," said Gearge, pulling out first one polecat ferret and then another. And so they had; for what with working the banks all the morning and shooting the rabbits in the open that succeeded in running the blockade, they had wonderful bags. Though Frank didn't say much, he was glad to get back to the tent; his feet were swollen, and he could hardly carry his gun. He was certainly "bein' broke" with a vengeance. CHAPTER THREE. FRANK IS THOROUGHLY "HARDENED OFF"--DEER-STALKING IN THE HIGHLANDS-- PARTRIDGE, PHEASANT, AND DUCK SHOOTING--"GOOD-BYE"--"NONE BUT THE BRAVE DESERVE THE FAIR." "How does he harden, Fred?" cried Chisholm, bursting all unannounced one morning into the dining-room of a North Wales hotel, where Freeman and young Willoughby were just putting the finishing touches to a glorious breakfast, with boiled eggs and mountain trout. Chisholm had been absent for a whole week. "How does he harden?" "I think he is getting on famously. He's curing nicely." "I declare," said Frank, laughing, "you talk of me as if I were a ham or something; and Chisholm asks about me in the same tone of voice he would use if he wanted to know how your meerschaum coloured." "'Cause we're interested in you, dear boy," said Chisholm, feeling Frank's arm. "But, bless my heart," he continued, "there is a biceps for you; why, it's as hard as a hawser! And there's a sunburnt face for you! Waiter, bring the beef. And what are you doing, boys?" "Well," said Fred, "you know we've been two months now under canvas, so we thought we would try a week of civilisation. But we've had rare sport enough, fishing in river and fishing in lake, and shooting almost whatever we came across--rabbits, leverets, pigeons, plovers, anything." "Bad boys," said Chisholm. "But never mind, we're off to-morrow." "Where away?" "To the Highlands, the stern Scottish Highlands," said Chisholm. "I'm promised a week among the deer. You're hard enough for that now, Frank." "What a ubiquitous trio we are, to be sure!" said Fred. They certainly seemed so, reader; for two days after the foregoing conversation they were dining at a quiet little hotel in Beauley, and by four of the clock next morning they were on their way to the house of Duncan McPhee, the head keeper of the great forest of Cairntree, one of the wildest tracts of country in the wild North. Though termed a forest, it is only partially wooded; for gigantic hills, bare and rugged, tower skywards every here and there from amidst the pine-trees, and there are, too, vast tracts of bare brae or moorland, covered only with heather, the home of the grouse and the ptarmigan. Deer abound in this forest in countless herds; but, saving the houses of the keepers, you might journey for days in all directions without seeing the smoke from a single habitation. Early as our heroes were abroad, Duncan and his dogs were there to meet them. But their first day was a blank, and they returned very tired and somewhat disheartened to the keeper's house, where, putting up with Highland fare, they determined to stay all night. The next day they were rewarded with the sight of deer in hundreds, but that was all; the deer were too wild and wary to reach. More than once that day, as some noble stag stood for a moment on knoll or brae-top, scenting the wind, then dashing wildly off adown the glen, the words of Walter Scott came to Frank's mind-- "The crested leader, proud and high, Tossed his beamed frontlet to the sky, A moment gazed adown the dale, A moment snuffed the tainted gale; Then, as the headmost foe appeared. With one brave bound the copse he cleared, And stretching forward free and far, Sought the wild heaths of Uam Var." But the third was a never-to-be-forgotten day, for Frank brought down his first stag, and it was a "royal." Luck seemed to set in after this. It never rains but it pours, you know, and nobody had any reason to be dissatisfied with that week spent among the red deer in the wilds of Cairntree. I wish I had space wherein to tell you of one-half of the delightful sporting adventures our heroes had during the many months Frank was "bein' broke," or of the many happy, pleasant days they had to look back to, when afterwards sojourning with wild beasts and wilder men--of days spent among the partridges, or with the cockers at work, or following the pheasants. They all agreed that there was but little true sport attached to pheasant-shooting, the birds are so tame. "It's just like shooting hens," Chisholm remarked. But perhaps their dearest recollections went back to the time they spent in duck shooting. These were days they might have marked in their diaries with a red cross--spent entirely under canvas they were, in true gipsy fashion; for although the season was autumn, the weather was still bright and warm, and the nights just cool enough to be pleasant. By marshes or lonely moorlands, by inland lakes and ponds, or by wooded friths and estuaries, following up the wild-fowl never failed to give them the very greatest of pleasure and sport. In these adventures their chief companion was a dog of the Irish water-spaniel type, and Pattie by name. Red all over was Pattie, and one mass of ringlets, which even a whole day's swimming in sea or river failed to unravel; he even had a fringe or top-knot over his bonnie brow, which quite set off his peculiar style of beauty. Pattie's style of beauty was what would be designated in Scotland "the daft." Mind, you couldn't help loving Pattie--I defy you not to love him if you tried; but he had such queer ways, and such a funny face, that you couldn't look at him long without