# Royal Flash

Royal Flash is a 1970 novel by George MacDonald Fraser. It is the second of the Flashman novels. It was made into the film Royal Flash in 1975 and remains the only Flashman novel to be filmed.

Plot summary
Royal Flash is set during the Revolutions of 1848. The story features Lola Montez and Otto von Bismarck as major characters, and fictionalises elements of the Schleswig-Holstein Question, 1843, 1847 and 1848. It is set in the fictional Duchy of Strackenz, making it the only Flashman novel to be set in a fictitious location.

Other characters include: 
Prince Edward 
Lola Montez 
Ludwig I of Bavaria 
John Gully 
Nicholas Ward 
Lord Conyngham 
Richard Wagner 
Franz Liszt 
Oscar Wilde 
Henry Irving 
Karl Marx 
Lord Palmerston 
Viscount Peel 
Jefferson Davis

The book is loosely based on the plot of The Prisoner of Zenda. Flashman explains that this is because the story was plagiarised from him by its author, Anthony Hope. In a letter, Fraser wrote that during his researches into an earlier Flashman book he had discovered that in real life Bismarck and Lola Montez had been in London at the same time. He added that it had been too good an opportunity to miss.

The book's plot is anachronistic in depicting Bismarck already in 1848 striving for the unification of Germany. In fact, during the revolutions of 1848 Bismarck was completely opposed to German Unification, which in 1848 was a cause promoted by radical revolutionaries that the conservative Bismarck detested. Unlike his depiction in the book, Bismarck only took up German Unification much later in his career, when he could use it to enhance the power of the Prussian Monarchy and of himself. 

1970 British novels
Flashman novels
Fiction set in 1848
Barrie & Jenkins books
Novels set in the 1840s
British novels adapted into films
Cultural depictions of Lola Montez
Cultural depictions of Otto von Bismarck
Novels set in fictional countries
Cultural depictions of Henry John Temple, 3rd Viscount Palmerston
Cultural depictions of Edward VII
Cultural depictions of Richard Wagner
Cultural depictions of Franz Liszt
Cultural depictions of Oscar Wilde
Cultural depictions of Karl Marx