# List of X-Men: Evolution characters

The series X-Men: Evolution featured a diverse cast of complicated characters. A common staple of the series was whether a particular person had chosen their allegiances correctly, with several instances of a character switching teams.

X-Men

Teachers
Professor Charles Xavier (voiced by David Kaye) is the team's telepathic mentor and financier. He is very similar to his comic book counterpart, only more casual. Like the comic Professor X, he is still somewhat secretive, if only for the protection of his students. He occasionally visits Juggernaut, who is in suspended animation.
Hank McCoy / Beast (voiced by Michael Kopsa) joins during the second season. Beast is similar to his comic counterpart in most ways, though the Evolution version speaks more casually. He was originally a gym coach and chemistry teacher at Bayville High before his latent transformation into the ape-like Beast could no longer be controlled with the medications he had formulated upon first learning of his mutation. This change of fortune forced him to retire and join the X-Men, where he could continue to teach. It was during the initial discovery of his mutation that he became acquainted with Professor Xavier.
Ororo Munroe / Storm (voiced by Kirsten Williamson), as her codename implies, is able to harness and manipulate the forces of nature. Storm can summon lightning from a benign sky, manifest violent storms, call up freezing blizzards, and bring all forms of precipitation to bear. She can even harness the power of wind, allowing her to fly. Ororo is known for her calm personality and regal manner, and she was even worshipped as a Goddess in Africa due to her ability to summon the rains. In the comics, Ororo is an only child and an orphan; in Evolution, she has a sister named Vivian and a nephew, Spyke. Storm is the first to notice Evan's powers at his basketball game in New York City. In both Evolution and the comics, Storm is claustrophobic, which is shown in 'African Storm', though the show does not reveal the origin of her ailment (she was trapped under wreckage following the accident that killed her parents). While Storm is one of the X-Men's most popular and recognizable female members, she plays a smaller role in X-Men: Evolution. Her one spotlight episode, "African Storm," puts the emphasis on her teenage nephew, Spyke, although her African origins are heavily touched upon during this episode.
Logan / Wolverine (voiced by Scott McNeil), though similar in most ways to the classic Wolverine, he has been seriously toned down in violence, has a slightly different hairstyle, and is designed to be more of a role model for the students and appears more as a "gruff uncle" type character. He is also in charge of the students' combat and survival training and is famous among the students for his apparently difficult and challenging methods, as well as his strict and unyielding teaching manner. On a side note, he is the only X-Man to change his uniform; at the beginning, he wears an incarnation of his classic orange-black uniform with his characteristic bladed mask, but then swaps it for a dark, maskless uniform very similar to the version found in the Ultimate X-Men comic in the third season. His powers (superhuman senses, strength, durability, agility, and longevity, healing factor, and adamantium claws and skeleton) are identical to his comic incarnation. He also is known to give the students nicknames, for instance, for Kitty Pryde he calls her "Half Pint" along with other names for the other students.

Students
Scott Summers / Cyclops (voiced by Kirby Morrow) is somewhat toned down from his comic book counterpart; he is less stiff and possesses a more open sense of humor. Contrasting with many other incarnations, Cyclops is not the aloof, doubtful loner, but a handsome and confident leader who exudes natural authority, although he is still somewhat standoffish. While the other students tend to look up to him, his competitive nature and closely held temper get in the way at times. He is the most officious and rule-abiding of the X-Men and the least likely to fool around. After the third season, Cyclops and Jean Grey begin teaching the younger students at the Xavier Institute how to better control and utilize their powers. Like the comics version, he has optic blasts that can only be controlled by special visors made of ruby quartz. This Cyclops also owns, drives, and maintains a car. Magneto once tried to control him by inventing a machine that would let Scott control his blasts at will, but Scott soon destroyed his machine and had to use his visor again.
Jean Grey (voiced by Venus Terzo) was "Miss Popular" of the X-Men: smart, athletic, beautiful, well-liked, and the second-in-command after Cyclops. However, she is more insecure than her comic book counterpart and possesses a jealous streak when it comes to Scott Summers. Unlike many mutants who began as social outcasts and came to find their horizons expanded through their association with the institute, Jean starts out from a high position of status. After the third season, Cyclops and Jean Grey began teaching the younger students at the Xavier Institute how to better control and utilize their powers.Jean Grey's unique telekinetic mutant abilities allow her to manipulate matter through the force of thought alone and generate force fields and tap into the minds of others with telepathic powers. This incarnation of Jean occasionally has trouble controlling her powers and suffered at least one major loss of control as she experienced a sudden surge in their scope.  Various hints dropped throughout the seasons indicate that she, like her original version, is destined to assume the mantle of the Phoenix Force. She also has romantic feelings for Cyclops, but doesn't know how to tell him how she feels, but eventually works up the courage to confess and they become a couple later in the series. Unlike most of her teammates, Jean forgoes the use of a codename. After graduating from high school, Scott and Jean became teachers at the institute. It is hinted that she is afraid of clowns.
Kurt Wagner / Nightcrawler (voiced by Brad Swaile) is the teleporting humorist of the team. The Evolution Nightcrawler is very similar to his comic version and has a friendly big-brother relationship with Cyclops. During his early days at the institute, he was still feeling very insecure about fitting in. In the first season, Kurt was quite immature and childish, but he becomes much more mature following season 2. Kurt is the biological son of Mystique, but was raised by kind foster parents in Germany (instead of being abandoned by Mystique, she accidentally dropped him over a bridge while escaping Magneto, and when she saw he had been adopted, she decided to let him remain with them). He speaks with a German accent, although he makes a concerted effort to use vernacular typical of an American teenager. For much of the show, Nightcrawler uses a holographic image inducer in public to hide his appearance. It is later revealed that Rogue is his adopted sister. Over the course of the series, he and Kitty Pryde develop a very close friendship.
Kitty Pryde / Shadowcat (voiced by Maggie Blue O'Hara) possesses the mutant ability to become cognitively intangible, allowing her to pass or "phase" through solid objects at will. She initially had a thick valley girl accent, but it was eventually phased out after the first season. She is the second-youngest member of the team; her culinary skills are a constant source of dismay among the others. Kitty led a very sheltered life before joining the X-Men and was initially afraid of Nightcrawler's "demonic" appearance, but she has since grown into a very open-minded and worldly young lady, and she and Nightcrawler eventually develop a very close brother and sister friendship.Kitty attracted the romantic attention of Lance Alvers the moment they met, and he tried to comfort her with his sympathy (Kitty had just developed her powers) but also wanted her to help him steal test answers. When Lance gets out of control, Kitty joins the X-Men instead, although Lance still had feelings for her. At the very beginning of Season 2, Kitty also develops romantic feelings for Lance when he risked his life to save her from a falling mascot statue, and they begin dating. However, during Season 3 when principal Kelly convinced the Brotherhood to gang up on the X-Men, Kitty felt betrayed by Lance and they both realized that as long as they are on rival teams, their relationship would not work out. At the end of Season 4, during their fight against Apocalypse, Avalanche did end up protecting Kitty against Magneto, who was Apocalypse's minion at that time and they reunite.
Evan Daniels / Spyke (voiced by Neil Denis) is a series-original character and Storm's nephew, with the ability to project bonelike spikes from his skin. He is the youngest member of the team. Spyke would much rather play basketball or skateboard t