Biology Research Paper

Title: Progress in the Application of Immune Checkpoint Inhibitor-Based Immunotherapy for Targeting Different Types of Colorectal Cancer

Abstract:
Colorectal cancer (CRC), a common malignant disease, has the second highest mortality rate among all cancer types. Due to the diversity and heterogeneity of CRC, few effective treatment strategies have been developed in recent years, except for surgical resection. As immunotherapy has become a revolutionary treatment after surgery, along with chemoradiotherapy and targeted therapy, numerous basic research studies and clinical trials have been conducted on CRC. Therefore, immune checkpoint inhibitor (ICI) therapy has become the main anti-CRC immunotherapy method used at present. With the rapid development of biotechnology and cell research, an increasing number of monotherapy or combination therapy strategies using ICIs for CRC have been designed in recent years. Methods to classify and review ICI strategies for different types of CRC to better guide treatment are continuously investigated. However, the identification of why the ICIs would be more effective in targeting particular subtypes of CRC such as high microsatellite instability (MSI-H) is more important because of the different immune backgrounds in patients. This review intends to classify different subtypes of CRC and summarizes the basic and clinical studies on ICIs for each subtype of CRC currently available. In addition, we also attempt to briefly discuss the progress in immunotherapy methods other than ICI therapy, such as chemoimmunotherapy strategy, chimeric antigen receptor-modified T (CAR-T) cells, or immunotherapy based on oncolytic viruses. Finally, we provide a perspective on the development of immunotherapy in the treatment of CRC and attempt to propose a new systematic classification of CRC based on immunological strategies, which may improve guidance for the selection of immunotherapy strategies for different subtypes of CRC in the future.