# Pre-exposure prophylaxis

Pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) is the use of medications to prevent the spread of disease in people who have not yet been exposed to a disease-causing agent, usually a virus. The term typically refers to the use of antiviral drugs as a strategy for the prevention of HIV/AIDS. PrEP is one of a number of HIV prevention strategies for people who are HIV negative but who have a higher risk of acquiring HIV, including sexually active adults at increased risk of contracting HIV, people who engage in intravenous drug use (see drug injection), and serodiscordant sexually active couples.

When used as directed, PrEP has been shown to be highly effective, reducing the risk of acquiring HIV by up to 99%.

The first form of PrEP for HIV prevention - tenofovir disoproxil and emtricitabine (TDF/FTC; Truvada) - was approved in 2012. In October 2019, the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved the combination of emtricitabine and tenofovir alafenamide (F/TAF; Descovy) to be used as PrEP in addition to Truvada, which provides similar levels of protection. Descovy, however, is only currently approved for cisgender men and transgender women - efficacy has not been assessed in people at risk through receptive vaginal sex (i.e., cisgender women and transgender men).

The World Health Organization (WHO) began recommending oral PrEP in 2015; as of their 2021 guidelines, the WHO recommends multiple forms of PrEP for HIV prevention: 

 Oral PrEP using TDF-containing compounds for anyone at substantial risk of HIV infection;
 Event-driven PrEP for cisgender men who have sex with men; and
 The dapivirine vaginal ring for cisgender women at substantial risk of HIV infection.

In December 2021, the FDA approved cabotegravir (Apretude), which is an injectable form of PrEP manufactured by ViiV, a pharmaceutical company that specializes in HIV drugs. Regulators believe it will improve medication adherence because it only has to be taken once every two months, and will also widen adoption as it eliminates the need to hide pills or pharmacy visits for discretion.

Medical uses

Indications for use

United States 
In the United States, federal guidelines updated in 2021 now recommend healthcare providers discuss and provide information on the use of pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) for HIV prevention for all sexually active adults and adolescents. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) recommends providers take a targeted sexual history of their patients to assess specific risk for HIV acquisition and suggest PrEP to the following patients:

 Sexually active adults and adolescents who have had anal or vaginal sex in the past 6 months and any of the following:
 1 or more partner(s) with unknown HIV status and inconsistent condom use;
 An HIV-positive sexual partner (especially if they have an unknown or detectable viral load);
 A bacterial sexually transmitted infection (STI) in the past 6 months.
 Patients reporting injection drug use within the last 6 months and any of the following:
 An HIV-positive injecting partner;
 Shared injection equipment.

Additionally, these updated guidelines recommend providers prescribe PrEP to any patient that requests it, regardless of their stated risk factors.

United Kingdom 
In the United Kingdom the BHIVA/BASHH guidelines on the use of HIV pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) 2018 recommend:
On-demand or daily oral Tenofovir – emtricitabine (TD-FTC) for HIV-negative MSM who are at elevated risk of HIV acquisition through unprotected anal sex in the previous six months and ongoing unprotected anal sex. 
On-demand or daily oral TD-FTC for HIV-negative MSM having unprotected anal sex with partners who are HIV positive, unless the partner has been on ART for at least six months and their plasma viral load is <200 copies/mL.
Tenofovir (TDF) alone should not be offered to MSM. 
Daily oral TD-FTC for HIV-negative heterosexual men and women having unprotected sex with partners who are HIV positive, unless the partner has been on ART for at least six months and their plasma viral load is <200 copies/mL.
Daily oral TD-FTC for heterosexual men and women on a case-by-case basis with current factors that may put them at increased risk of HIV acquisition. 
TDF alone can be offered to heterosexual men and women where FTC is contraindicated.
PrEP is not recommended for people who inject drugs where needle exchange and opiate substitution programs are available and accessed by the individual.
PrEP with daily oral TD-FTC for HIV-negative trans women who are at risk of HIV acquisition through unprotected anal sex in the previous six months and ongoing unprotected sex. 
Daily oral TD-FTC for HIV-negative trans women and trans men who have unprotected sex with partners who are HIV positive, unless the partner has been on ART for at least six months and their plasma viral load is <200 copies/mL.

Other Countries 
Other government health agencies from around the world have devised their own national guidelines for how to use PrEP to prevent HIV infection in those at high risk, including Botswana, Canada, Kenya, Lesotho, South Africa, Uganda, the Zambia, and Zimbabwe.

Eligibility, Follow-up Care, Dosage 
Often, laboratory testing is required before starting PrEP, including a test for HIV. Once PrEP is initiated, individuals are asked to see their healthcare provider at least every three to six months. During those visits, providers may want to repeat testing for HIV, test for other sexually transmitted infections, monitor kidney function, and/or test for pregnancy. Individuals must test negative for HIV prior to PrEP initiation because persons infected with HIV taking PrEP medication are at risk for becoming resistant to emtricitabine. Consequently, people with HIV infection and resistance to emtricitabine will have fewer options for selecting HIV treatment medications.

PrEP has been shown to be effective at reducing the risk of acquiring HIV in individuals at increased risk. However, PrEP is not 100% effective at preventing HIV, even in people who take the medication as prescribed. There have been several reported cases of people who acquired HIV despite taking PrEP. People taking PrEP may use combination prevention strategies along with PrEP, like condoms. If someone on PrEP acquires HIV, they may experience the signs and symptoms of HIV/AIDS.

PrEP is typically taken continuously and daily following potential exposure. The CDC recommends follow-up visits at least every three months to provide HIV tests, medication adherence counseling, behavioral risk reduction support, side effect assessment, STI symptom assessment, and STI testing for sexually active individuals with symptoms of a current infection. Pregnancy tests should also be done every three months for woman who may become pregnant. At three months and every six months thereafter, renal function and presence of bacterial STI is assessed. Effectiveness of PrEP is associated with adherence, with effectiveness decreasing with suboptimal adherence.

Event-driven PrEP 
Although the daily, oral dosing schedule is still recommended for all individuals taking PrEP medication for HIV infection prevention, event-driven pre-exposure prophylaxis, or ED-PrEP, is an option for men who have sex with men. ED-PrEP is also referred to as "2+1+1" dosing, because the dosing regimen involves a person taking two pills two to twenty-four hours prior to sex, one pill twenty-four hours after taking the first two pills, and a last pill taken forty-eight hours after taking the first two pills. This dosing regimen was first proven effective to reduce the relative risk of HIV infection by 86% in the IPERGAY randomized clinical trial performed in Canada and France in 2015. This has only been evaluated with Truvada and not other drugs. According to the WHO, ED-PrEP should be considered for HIV infection prevention in men who have sex with men who have relatively infrequent sex, who are able to plan sex or delay sex for about two hours, and who find this dosing schedule convenient. ED-PrEP is not recommended for use in other populations, such as cisgender or transgender women and men who have vaginal and/or anal sex with women, due to the lack of safety and efficacy data available studying ED-PrEP in these populations. ED-PrEP can be beneficial to help reduce the pill burden for people and decrease costs, as fewer pills are needed.

PrEP During Pregnancy and Postpartum 
The World Health Organization (WHO) recommendations support the use of PrEP in pregnant and breastfeeding people who are at substantial risk of HIV infection. A growing body of evidence demonstrates the safety of TDF-containing oral PrEP during pregnancy and breastfeeding. This is an important time for prevention, as acquiring HIV during pregnancy increases the risk of transmission to the infant. However, global PrEP accessibility for women, including those who are either pregnant or breastfeeding, is limited. Efforts to increase accessi