# List of University of Michigan faculty and staff

The University of Michigan has 6,200 faculty members and roughly 38,000 employees which include National Academy members, and Nobel and Pulitzer Prize winners. Several past presidents have gone on to become presidents of Ivy League universities.

Notable faculty: Nobel Laureates
 Joseph Brodsky, Nobel Prize, Literature 1987
 Donald A. Glaser professor of physics, developed in 1954 the world's first liquid bubble chamber to study high-energy subatomic particles and won the Nobel Prize in physics for his invention in 1960
 Charles B. Huggins, Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine, 1966	
 Lawrence R. Klein, '30 alumnus; a member of the economics department and the Institute for Social Research. Won the 1980 Nobel Prize in economics for his econometric models forecasting short-term economic trends and policies.
 Gérard Mourou, co-winner of Nobel Prize, Physics, 2018
 Wolfgang Pauli, winner of Nobel Prize, Physics, 1945
 Martin L. Perl, Physics Nobel Prize 1995
 Norman F. Ramsey, Physics Nobel Prize 1989
 Peyton Rous, Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine, 1966
 Hamilton O. Smith Nobel Prize, for Physiology or Medicine, 1978
 Charles H. Townes, Nobel Prize for Physics, 1964
 Martinus Veltman, professor emeritus, John D. MacArthur Professor of Physics. 1999 Nobel Prize for Physics.
 Carl Wieman, one of three scientists who shared the 2001 Nobel Prize in Physics

Notable faculty: past and present
 Madeleine K. Albright, visiting scholar. Albright served as United States Secretary of State from 1997 to 2001
 W. H. Auden, poet
 Charles Baxter, former director of the MFA program in creative writing; novelist, poet, and essayist
 Ruth Behar (born Havana, Cuba, 1956) is a Jewish Cuban American anthropologist, poet
 Seymour Blinder, professor emeritus of chemistry and physics
 R. Stephen Berry, professor of physical chemistry
 William Bolcom, composer
 Kenneth Boulding, noted economist and faculty member 1949–1967
 Richard Brauer Accepted a position at University of Michigan in Ann Arbor in 1948. In 1949 Brauer was awarded the Cole Prize
 Henry Billings Brown, instructor in law, later US Supreme Court justice
 Evan H. Caminker: Dean of Law School
 Anne Carson,  Canadian poet, essayist, and translator
 Carl Cohen, notable for using Michigan Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) in 1996 to identify U-M's policy of racial categorization in admissions, leading to the Grutter and Gratz v. Bollinger lawsuits
Wilbur Joseph Cohen, American social scientist and federal civil servant
 Juan Cole, notable for his weblog "Informed Comment", covering events in the Middle East
 Thomas M. Cooley, law professor, and Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of Michigan
 Christopher Chetsanga, discovered two enzymes that repair DNA after x-irradiation
 Arthur Copeland, mathematician
Brian Coppola, professor of chemistry
 Pierre Dansereau, Canadian ecologist known as one of the "fathers of ecology".
 Sheldon Danziger, political scientist, President of the Russell Sage Foundation
Michael Daugherty, composer, pianist, and teacher
 Michael Duff, principal of the Faculty of Physical Sciences at Imperial College London
 Francis Collins led the Human Genome Project and is the current director of the National Institutes of Health
 John Dewey, co-founder of pragmatism
 Igor Dolgachev, mathematician
 Sidney Fine, longest serving faculty member.  Chief biographer of Frank Murphy.
 William Frankena, moral philosopher
 Erich Fromm, psychologist
 Robert Frost Michigan Poet-in-Residence
 Alice Fulton, poet, author, and feminist
 William Gehring, professor of psychology
 Susan Gelman, psychologist
 Herman Heine Goldstine, mathematician
 Samuel Goudsmit, conceived – with George Uhlenback – the idea of Quantum Spin
 Edward Gramlich, professor of economics and member, Federal Reserve Board
 Linda Gregerson, Frederick G.L. Huetwell Professor at University of Michigan
 Robert L. Griess, mathematician working on finite simple groups
 Kristin Ann Hass
 William Donald "Bill" Hamilton, British evolutionary biologist
 Donald Hall, English professor and United States Poet Laureate 2006–2007
 Thomas Hales solved a nearly four-century-old problem called the Kepler conjecture
 Paul Halmos, mathematician specializing in functional analysis
 Eric J. Hill, professor of practice in architecture
 Melvin Hochster, commutative algebraist
 Andrew Hoffman, an expert in environmental pollution and sustainable enterprise
 Daniel Hunt Janzen, evolutionary ecologist, naturalist, and conservationist
 William Le Baron Jenney, architect and engineer
 Gerome Kamrowski, artist at the forefront of the development of American Surrealism and Abstract Expressionism
 Gordon Kane, Victor Weisskopf Collegiate Professor of Physics
Barry Klarberg, professional business and wealth manager for athletes, entertainers and high-net-worth individuals
Oskar Klein, first work in Ann Arbor dealt with the anomalous Zeeman effect
Adrienne Koch, historian, specialist in American history of the 18th century
 Yoram Koren – James J. Duderstadt University Professor of Manufacturing and Paul G. Goebel Professor of Mechanical Engineering in the College of Engineering
Kenneth Lieberthal, China expert and member of the National Security Council during the Clinton Administration
Emmett Leith and Juris Upatnieks, created the first working hologram in 1962
Catharine MacKinnon, feminist legal theorist
Jason Mars, conversational AI researcher, founder of ClincAI, author
Paul McCracken, economist. Chairmen emeritus: President's Council of Economic Advisers
Lisa M. Meeks,  specialist in disabilities
George E. Mendenhall, professor emeritus: Department of Near Eastern Studies and author
 Gerald Meyers, professor at the University of Michigan Ross School of Business School, former chairman of American Motors Corporation
 William Ian Miller, legal and social theorist; author of The Anatomy of Disgust
 Hugh L. Montgomery, number theorist
 Thylias Moss, developed Limited Fork Poetics, Professor of English and Art & Design, author 
 James V. Neel professor of human genetics, in 1940s discovered that defective genes cause sickle cell anemia
Nicholas Negroponte, founder of MIT's Media Lab
 Reed M. Nesbit, urologist, pioneer of transurethral resection of the prostate
 Dirk Obbink, papyrologist, 2001 MacArthur Fellowship winner for his work at both Oxyrhynchus and Herculaneum
Will Potter,author, civil liberties advocate
Anatol Rapoport, author of Two-Person Game Theory (1999) and N-Person Game Theory (2001)
  Arthur Rich, professor of physics, developed in 1988 with research investigator James C. Van House first positron microscope
 Gottlieb Eliel Saarinen, architect
 Jonas Salk, assistant professor of epidemiology
 Vojislav Šešelj, Serbian political scientist and nationalist leader
 Anton Shammas, professor of comparative literature and modern Middle Eastern literature
 Marilyn Shatz, Professor Emerita of Psychology and Linguistics
 Lawrence Sklar, William K. Frankena Collegiate Professor and Professor of Philosophy, Guggenheim fellow 1974
 Kannan Soundararajan, awarded the 2004 Salem Prize, joint winner of the 2005 SASTRA Ramanujan Prize
 Theodore J. St. Antoine, law school dean and labor arbitrator
 Stephen Timoshenko, created the first US bachelor's and doctoral programs in engineering mechanics
 Amos Tversky, behavioral economist and frequent co-author with Daniel Kahneman
 A. Galip Ulsoy – co-inventor of the Reconfigurable Manufacturing System, and deputy director of the NSF Engineering Research Center for Reconfigurable Manufacturing Systems
Raymond Louis Wilder, work focused on set-theoretic topology, manifolds and use of algebraic techniques
 Milford H. Wolpoff, leading proponent of the multiregional hypothesis for human evolution.
 Trevor D. Wooley Department Chair, Department of Mathematics, University of Michigan. Salem Prize, 1998. Alfred P. Sloan Research Fellow, 1993–1995

American Association for the Advancement of Science 
Fellows of the American Association for the Advancement of Science. Founded in 1848, AAAS is the world's largest general scientific society and publisher of the journal Science. The tradition of AAAS Fellows began in 1874.

 Huda Akil, Gardner C. Quarton Professor of Neurosciences in psychiatry, professor of psychiatry and co-director and senior research scientist of the U-M Mental Health Research Institute
 Sushil Atreya, Professor of atmospheric and space sciences
 Brian Coppola, Arthur F. Thurnau Professor of Chemistry.
 Jack E. Dixon, Minor J. Coon Professor of Biological Chemistry, chair of the Department of Biological Chemistry 
 Rodney Ewing, Donald R. Peacor Collegiate Professor of Geological Sciences, professor of materials science and engineering, and professor of nuclear engineering and radiological sciences
 William R. Farrand, Professor of geological sciences and curator, Museum of Anthropology.
 Daniel Fisher, Claude W. Hibbard Collegiate Professor of Paleontology, professor of geological sciences, professor of e