# Microbial metabolism

Microbial metabolism is the means by which a microbe obtains the energy and nutrients (e.g. carbon) it needs to live and reproduce.  Microbes use many different types of metabolic strategies and species can often be differentiated from each other based on metabolic characteristics.  The specific metabolic properties of a microbe are the major factors in determining that microbe's ecological niche, and often allow for that microbe to be useful in industrial processes or responsible for biogeochemical cycles.

Types

All microbial metabolisms can be arranged according to three principles:

1. How the organism obtains carbon for synthesizing cell mass:
 autotrophic – carbon is obtained from carbon dioxide ()
 heterotrophic – carbon is obtained from organic compounds
 mixotrophic – carbon is obtained from both organic compounds and by fixing carbon dioxide
2. How the organism obtains reducing equivalents (hydrogen atoms or electrons) used either in energy conservation or in biosynthetic reactions:
 lithotrophic – reducing equivalents are obtained from inorganic compounds
 organotrophic – reducing equivalents are obtained from organic compounds
3. How the organism obtains energy for living and growing:
 phototrophic – energy is obtained from light
 chemotrophic – energy is obtained from external chemical compounds

In practice, these terms are almost freely combined. Typical examples are as follows:

 chemolithoautotrophs obtain energy from the oxidation of inorganic compounds and carbon from the fixation of carbon dioxide. Examples: Nitrifying bacteria, sulfur-oxidizing bacteria, iron-oxidizing bacteria, Knallgas-bacteria
 photolithoautotrophs obtain energy from light and carbon from the fixation of carbon dioxide, using reducing equivalents from inorganic compounds. Examples: Cyanobacteria (water () as reducing equivalent = hydrogen donor), Chlorobiaceae, Chromatiaceae (hydrogen sulfide () as hydrogen donor), Chloroflexus (hydrogen () as reducing equivalent donor)
 chemolithoheterotrophs obtain energy from the oxidation of inorganic compounds, but cannot fix carbon dioxide (). Examples: some Thiobacilus, some Beggiatoa, some Nitrobacter spp., Wolinella (with  as reducing equivalent donor), some Knallgas-bacteria, some sulfate-reducing bacteria
 chemoorganoheterotrophs obtain energy, carbon, and hydrogen for biosynthetic reactions from organic compounds. Examples: most bacteria, e. g. Escherichia coli, Bacillus spp., Actinomycetota
 photoorganoheterotrophs obtain energy from light, carbon and reducing equivalents for biosynthetic reactions from organic compounds. Some species are strictly heterotrophic, many others can also fix carbon dioxide and are mixotrophic. Examples: Rhodobacter, Rhodopseudomonas, Rhodospirillum, Rhodomicrobium, Rhodocyclus, Heliobacterium, Chloroflexus (alternatively to photolithoautotrophy with hydrogen)

Heterotrophic microbial metabolism

Some microbes are heterotrophic (more precisely chemoorganoheterotrophic), using organic compounds as both carbon and energy sources. Heterotrophic microbes live off of nutrients that they scavenge from living hosts (as commensals or parasites) or find in dead organic matter of all kind (saprophages). Microbial metabolism is the main contribution for the bodily decay of all organisms after death. Many eukaryotic microorganisms are heterotrophic by predation or parasitism, properties also found in some bacteria such as Bdellovibrio (an intracellular parasite of other bacteria, causing death of its victims) and Myxobacteria such as Myxococcus (predators of other bacteria which are killed and lysed by cooperating swarms of many single cells of Myxobacteria). Most pathogenic bacteria can be viewed as heterotrophic parasites of humans or the other eukaryotic species they affect. Heterotrophic microbes are extremely abundant in nature and are responsible for the breakdown of large organic polymers such as cellulose, chitin or lignin which are generally indigestible to larger animals. Generally, the oxidative breakdown of large polymers to carbon dioxide (mineralization) requires several different organisms, with one breaking down the polymer into its constituent monomers, one able to use the monomers and excreting simpler waste compounds as by-products, and one able to use the excreted wastes.  There are many variations on this theme, as different organisms are able to degrade different polymers and secrete different waste products.  Some organisms are even able to degrade more recalcitrant compounds such as petroleum compounds or pesticides, making them useful in bioremediation.

Biochemically, prokaryotic heterotrophic metabolism is much more versatile than that of eukaryotic organisms, although many prokaryotes share the most basic metabolic models with eukaryotes, e. g. using glycolysis (also called EMP pathway) for sugar metabolism and the citric acid cycle to degrade acetate, producing energy in the form of ATP and reducing power in the form of NADH or quinols.  These basic pathways are well conserved because they are also involved in biosynthesis of many conserved building blocks needed for cell growth (sometimes in reverse direction).  However, many bacteria and archaea utilize alternative metabolic pathways other than glycolysis and the citric acid cycle.  A well-studied example is sugar metabolism via the keto-deoxy-phosphogluconate pathway (also called ED pathway) in Pseudomonas. Moreover, there is a third alternative sugar-catabolic pathway used by some bacteria, the pentose phosphate pathway. The metabolic diversity and ability of prokaryotes to use a large variety of organic compounds arises from the much deeper evolutionary history and diversity of prokaryotes, as compared to eukaryotes.  It is also noteworthy that the mitochondrion, the small membrane-bound intracellular organelle that is the site of eukaryotic oxygen-using energy metabolism, arose from the endosymbiosis of a bacterium related to obligate intracellular Rickettsia, and also to plant-associated Rhizobium or Agrobacterium. Therefore, it is not surprising that all mitrochondriate eukaryotes share metabolic properties with these Pseudomonadota. Most microbes respire (use an electron transport chain), although oxygen is not the only terminal electron acceptor that may be used.  As discussed below, the use of terminal electron acceptors other than oxygen has important biogeochemical consequences.

Fermentation

Fermentation is a specific type of heterotrophic metabolism that uses organic carbon instead of oxygen as a terminal electron acceptor.  This means that these organisms do not use an electron transport chain to oxidize NADH to  and therefore must have an alternative method of using this reducing power and maintaining a supply of  for the proper functioning of normal metabolic pathways (e.g. glycolysis).  As oxygen is not required, fermentative organisms are anaerobic.  Many organisms can use fermentation under anaerobic conditions and aerobic respiration when oxygen is present.  These organisms are facultative anaerobes.  To avoid the overproduction of NADH, obligately fermentative organisms usually do not have a complete citric acid cycle.  Instead of using an ATP synthase as in respiration, ATP in fermentative organisms is produced by substrate-level phosphorylation where a phosphate group is transferred from a high-energy organic compound to ADP to form ATP.  As a result of the need to produce high energy phosphate-containing organic compounds (generally in the form of Coenzyme A-esters) fermentative organisms use NADH and other cofactors to produce many different reduced metabolic by-products, often including hydrogen gas (). These reduced organic compounds are generally small organic acids and alcohols derived from pyruvate, the end product of glycolysis. Examples include ethanol, acetate, lactate, and butyrate. Fermentative organisms are very important industrially and are used to make many different types of food products. The different metabolic end products produced by each specific bacterial species are responsible for the different tastes and properties of each food.

Not all fermentative organisms use substrate-level phosphorylation. Instead, some organisms are able to couple the oxidation of low-energy organic compounds directly to the formation of a proton motive force or sodium-motive force and therefore ATP synthesis.  Examples of these unusual forms of fermentation include succinate fermentation by Propionigenium modestum and oxalate fermentation by Oxalobacter formigenes. These reactions are extremely low-energy yielding.  Humans and other higher animals also use fermentation to produce lactate from excess NADH, although this is not the major form of metabolism as it is in fermentative microorganisms.

Special metabolic properties

Methylotrophy

Methylotrophy refers to the ability of an organism to use C1-compounds as energy sources. These compounds include methanol, methyl am