# My Friends Tigger & Pooh

My Friends Tigger & Pooh is an American computer-animated children's television series on the Playhouse Disney block on Disney Channel. It was inspired by A. A. Milne's Winnie-the-Pooh. The series was developed by Walt Disney Television Animation and executive producer Brian Hohlfeld. 

The series aired from May 12, 2007, to October 9, 2010, in the United States.

Premise 
The series features Winnie the Pooh and other characters from Disney adaptations of Winnie-the-Pooh. It also introduces two new characters, an imaginative 6-year-old red-headed girl named Darby and her dog Buster. Darby is the main protagonist and an amateur sleuth. Her older best friend is Christopher Robin, who has grown up and makes two appearances over the course of the series. Darby teams up with Winnie the Pooh and Tigger to form the trio of Super Sleuths, and investigate mysteries in the Hundred Acre Wood.

Episodes

Voice cast

Major
 Chloë Grace Moretz as Darby
 Dee Bradley Baker as Buster
 Jim Cummings as Winnie the Pooh and Tigger

Recurring
 Travis Oates as Piglet
 Peter Cullen as Eeyore
 Ken Sansom as Rabbit
 Kath Soucie as Kanga
 Max Burkholder as Roo
 Oliver Dillon as Lumpy
 Brenda Blethyn as Mama Heffalump

Guest
 Tara Strong as Porcupine and Vixen
 Rob Paulsen as Raccoon
 James Arnold Taylor as Skunk
 Mark Hamill as Turtle
 Sydney Saylor as Possums
 Dee Bradley Baker as Woodpecker
 Struan Erlenborn as Christopher Robin
 Jim Cummings as Beaver

Production 
In 2005, it was announced that Disney was creating a new television series, with a new female character replacing Christopher Robin as the protagonist. My Friends Tigger & Pooh was developed by Walt Disney Television Animation, with animation from Japanese company Polygon Pictures, and was executive produced and story edited by Brian Hohlfeld. After voicing Piglet in Pooh's Heffalump Halloween Movie, Travis Oates reprises his role, taking over for John Fiedler, who died on June 25, 2005, two years prior to the debut of the series. It also marks the final time Peter Cullen, Ken Sansom and Kath Soucie provide the respective voices of Eeyore, Rabbit and Kanga, as all three would be recast in 2011's Winnie the Pooh. Cullen later reprises Eeyore in the 2017 Doc McStuffins special "Into the Hundred Acre Wood."

Release

Broadcast 
My Friends Tigger & Pooh premiered on Disney Channel's Playhouse Disney block on May 12, 2007.  The series was renewed for a second season in June 2007. It was renewed for a 35-episode third season in March 2008. 

In 2018, the series was released on Youku. My Friends Tigger & Pooh later became available to stream on Disney+.

Home media

Reception

Critical response 
Marilyn Moss of Associated Press called My Friends Tigger & Pooh a "charming series," adding that the "animation is splendid, and, of course, the characters retain their charm." Emily Ashby of Common Sense Media gave My Friends Tigger & Pooh a grade of four out of five stars and complimented the presence of positive messages, writing, "Overall, this is a delightful show that encourages kids to think critically about the world around them by involving them in fun puzzle solving. Plus, it's got upbeat songs, which kids are sure to love."

Ratings 
My Friends Tigger & Pooh was the number 1-ranked television series for kids 2–5 during its first season, earning a 5.2 rating. It also ranked as the top kid series with women 18–49 (0.7 rating), according to Disney Channel. The series continued to be the top-ranked show in kids 2–5 during its second season.

Accolades

References

External links

 
 
 My Friends Tigger & Pooh Review at KidsTVMovies. About.com

2007 American television series debuts
2010 American television series endings
2000s American animated television series
2010s American animated television series
2000s preschool education television series
2010s preschool education television series
American animated television spin-offs
American children's animated adventure television series
American children's animated fantasy television series
American children's animated musical television series
American children's animated mystery television series
American computer-animated television series
American detective television series
American preschool education television series
American television shows based on children's books
Animated preschool education television series
Animated television series about bears
Animated television series about children
Disney Channel original programming
Disney Junior original programming
English-language television shows
Television series based on Disney films
Television series by Disney Television Animation
Winnie the Pooh (franchise)
Winnie-the-Pooh television series
Cultural depictions of Christopher Robin Milne