# Llandough, Penarth

Llandough (/lænˈdɒk/;  [ɬan'doːχaɨ vaχ]) is a village, community and electoral ward in the Vale of Glamorgan (), Wales, approximately 2.3 miles (3.7 km) south west of Cardiff city centre, and approximately 1.3 miles (2 km) north west of Penarth.

Toponymy 
Llandough is an anglicisation of the Welsh placename , which as a combination of the words  (meaning 'church') and  (Saint /), followed by  (meaning 'small', however, consonant mutation in Welsh means this is changed to ).

History
Excavations have shown that the village's history goes back to the Roman occupation of Wales.

Until the mid-1960s, Llandough was a small farming and quarrying village but experienced an expansion involving the building of a large number of houses, a primary school, and a block of six shopping units. These shops have since been demolished.

There were around six thatched cottages in the village around 1960, but only one now remains – Pound Cottage.

Llandough became a separate community from Penarth in 1982, though its residents retained a right to be buried in Penarth Cemetery at the same cost until 2007.

Buildings

St Dochdwy's Church 

Llandough was long believed to be one of the main ecclesiastical centres in south east Wales, and was the site of a monastic community known as Bangor Dochau, by St Dochau in the 5th century. Evidence to support this claim was found when the excavations of the Roman villa revealed post-Roman burials, and by during another excavation in 1994, when the remains of over 800 individual burials dating from the 4th century to the 12th century AD were revealed.

The monastery became defunct in around the early 11th century, however the site continued in use as a parish church.

The first permanent church building was built in the 12th century, was restored in the 18th century, and remained in use until 1820. The original church was replaced in the 19th century by the Llandaff diocesan architects, Prichard and Seddon. However, this church was deemed too small for the growing population of the village and was replaced after 40 years of service by the current church. The first for the 19th century churches was dismantled and re-erected at Leckwith, where it was re-dedicated to St James. The building has since been converted into a pair of houses.

The current church was built in 1866. It was designed by architect Samuel Charles Fripp of Bristol, and built by David Jones of Penarth for a cost of £2,600.

A Celtic stone cross dating back to the 10th or 11th century still stands in the churchyard today. The stone includes an inscription IRBICI, which means “[the stone] of Irbic”, but nothing is known of this person or exactly why the cross was erected. The cross has been mutilated at the top but otherwise is complete. The monument is made of Sutton stone and measures  by . Renovation work was carried out on the cross in July 2013. A replica can be seen at National Museum Cardiff.

To the west of the church are three fragmentary components of a well-fortified house dating from the 1420s or 1430s, believed to have been built by John de Van.

Great House Farm 

Great House Farm stood alongside St Dochdwy's church, and was the site of a Celtic monastery and a missionary centre.

The remains of a soldier and his horse were found under the floor of the dining room when the stone floor was replaced with timber. It is thought that there was a battle on the site and the soldier was buried where he lay in his armour. His remains were re-buried in St Dochdwy's churchyard and his visor and lance are now in Amgueddfa Cymru – Museum Wales. A petition for the preservation of the farm was signed by 1,700 people in 1974.

The farm was opened on occasions for locals, schoolchildren, and visitors to learn about how people lived in the past. A cheese drying room was hollowed out of a solid wall. There was a bedroom where travelling monks would have taken their rest. Guglielmo Marconi slept here while working on his wireless telegraphy experiments between Lavernock Point and Flat Holm.

The farm was demolished in 1988 by British Petroleum Pension Funds, following a 33-year dispute over ownership. The site is now mostly vacant and overgrown, awaiting housing development. Housing was built on what was once the fields of Great House Farm in the 1960s, as well as the current Llandough primary school, which was opened in 1970 by James Callaghan, a local MP.

Roman Villa 
The site of a Roman villa was uncovered in 1979 when the Housing Association began work for blocks of flats. The Glamorgan and Gwent Archaeological Trust started excavation with the help of volunteers. There were indications that the villa stood between the second half of the 2nd century and the middle of the 4th century. It was built of mortar with roofs of red pottery tiles and Pennant sandstone. The walls were rendered with plaster, and the floors made of bricks and crushed tiles. A well-persevered sunken bath was found in the main living quarters.

A skeleton, skull, and bones were found on the site, remains of a Romano-British family, possibly farmers.

A last-minute bid to save the villa was unsuccessful and the flats of Corinthian Close and Tuscan Close were built.

Barons Court 

Baron's Court, originally known as Cogan Pill, is a late 15th or early 16th-century hall house with 19th-century additions.

It was built for Sir Mathew Cradock (died 1531) and passed his grandson Sir George Herbert, the first Sherif of Glamorgan (1494 to 1543). His younger son William, who was sheriff in 1552 and 1567 reputedly enlarged the house. It remained in the Herbert family, who also held St Fagans Castle, for many generations, becoming a farmhouse in 1642 with the grand hall converted to a barn. In 1790 the building was purchased by Lord Bute. Restored and remodelled c 1850 by H S Corbett, relative and agent of the Marquess of Bute, as a house for himself.

Many of the current features of the building date from this restoration, but it is to be noted that it is the only surviving medieval hall building in South Wales still open from floor to roof.

It has since been a Toby Carvery chain restaurant, and is now a pub/restaurant.

Llandough Institute 

The Llandough and Leckwith War Memorial Institute was opened by the Marchioness of Bute in 1924. It was built using donations from families from the two villages. The original hall was replaced 50 years later and formally opened by Sir Cennydd Traherne. Both the original and the current halls have been used for village functions, except during the WWII years when the building was used by the Royal Air Force. An anti-aircraft battery and balloon barrage unit were also situated in the village, and smoke screen motors were often used to throw smoke screens over Cardiff.

Rose Cottage 

The Baptist congregation of Llandough originally met in Rose Cottage, opposite Lewis Road on Penlan Road. The cottage was derelict by 1963, and has been demolished. The original garden walls still exist in front of the flats built on the site.

Llandough Baptist Church 

Built in 1859 as the successor to the Rose Cottage meeting house, the main building was constructed of stone from Llandough quarry with a slate roof. There was no interior ceiling. A number of extensions and modernisations were made after 1979.

Lewis Road terraces 
Numbers 1, 3, 5 and 7 Lewis Road were built around 1830. The terraced houses were constructed from square cornered limestone, with slate roofs, and store forecourt walls. Originally the windows and doors had flat arches but some of these features have been removed through modernisation.

Between 1830 and 1971, 1 Lewis Road has operated as a village shop, a bakery, a post office, and a grocers.

The Blacksmith's Cottage 
The Blacksmith's Cottage, now 89 Penlan Road, is a single-storey stone building dating from around 1760. It originally had a thatched roof which has been replaced by a tiled roof. The current kitchen area incorporates the blacksmith's oven, in the form of a brick dome.

The National School 

The stone building on the corner of Penlan Road and Lewis Road was the first National School in the Penarth area, dating from 1825. It was the initiative of the rector, Rev. James Evans, and was supported by the 2nd Marquess of Bute. At that time the population of Llandough was around 200, and the majority had Welsh as their first language.

The school building was constructed in stone with a slate roof and brick-edged windows and was planned to accommodate between 50 and 60 children. Behind the school a smaller house was constructed as the residence of the school teacher.

By 1870 the village's population had increased to over 700, and in 1872 the school was replaced by a new building opposite. The new school was planned to accommodate around 125 children and served as an elementary school until January 1941, when it was badly damaged by bombing during World War II.

The national school building is now a private house.

Pen-Y-Lan House 
P