# Κ-opioid receptor

The κ-opioid receptor or kappa opioid receptor, abbreviated KOR or KOP for its ligand ketazocine, is a G protein-coupled receptor that in humans is encoded by the OPRK1 gene. The KOR is coupled to the G protein Gi/G0 and is one of four related receptors that bind opioid-like compounds in the brain and are responsible for mediating the effects of these compounds. These effects include altering nociception, consciousness, motor control, and mood. Dysregulation of this receptor system has been implicated in alcohol and drug addiction.

The KOR is a type of opioid receptor that binds the opioid peptide dynorphin as the primary endogenous ligand (substrate naturally occurring in the body). In addition to dynorphin, a variety of natural alkaloids, terpenes and  synthetic ligands bind to the receptor. The KOR may provide a natural addiction control mechanism, and therefore, drugs that target this receptor may have therapeutic potential in the treatment of addiction.

There is evidence that distribution and/or function of this receptor may differ between sexes.

Distribution 
KORs are widely distributed in the brain, spinal cord (substantia gelatinosa), and in peripheral tissues. High levels of the receptor have been detected in the prefrontal cortex, periaqueductal gray, raphe nuclei (dorsal), ventral tegmental area, substantia nigra, dorsal striatum (putamen, caudate), ventral striatum (nucleus accumbens, olfactory tubercle), amygdala, bed nucleus stria terminalis, claustrum, hippocampus, hypothalamus, midline thalamic nuclei, locus coeruleus, spinal trigeminal nucleus, parabrachial nucleus, and solitary nucleus.

Subtypes 
Based on receptor binding studies, three variants of the KOR designated κ1, κ2, and κ3 have been characterized. However, only one cDNA clone has been identified, hence these receptor subtypes likely arise from interaction of one KOR protein with other membrane associated proteins.

Function

Pain
Similarly to μ-opioid receptor (MOR) agonists, KOR agonists are potently analgesic, and have been employed clinically in the treatment of pain. However, KOR agonists also produce side effects such as dysphoria, hallucinations, and dissociation, which has limited their clinical usefulness. Examples of KOR agonists that have been used medically as analgesics include butorphanol, nalbuphine, levorphanol, levallorphan, pentazocine, phenazocine, and eptazocine. Difelikefalin (CR845, FE-202845) and CR665 (FE-200665, JNJ-38488502) are peripherally restricted KOR agonists lacking the CNS side effects of centrally active KOR agonists and are currently under clinical investigation as analgesics.

Consciousness 
Centrally active KOR agonists have hallucinogenic or dissociative effects, as exemplified by salvinorin A (the active constituent in Salvia divinorum). These effects are generally undesirable in medicinal drugs. It is thought that the hallucinogenic and dysphoric effects of opioids such as butorphanol, nalbuphine, and pentazocine serve to limit their abuse potential. In the case of salvinorin A, a structurally novel neoclerodane diterpene KOR agonist, these hallucinogenic effects are sought by recreational users, despite the dysphoria experienced by some users.  Another KOR agonist with comparable effects is ibogaine, which has possible medical application in addiction treatment. While these KOR agonists possess hallucinogenic and dissociative effects, they are mechanistically and qualitatively different from those of the 5HT2AR agonist psychedelic hallucinogens such as lysergic acid diethylamide (LSD) or psilocybin and those of NMDAR antagonist dissociatives/anesthetics ketamine and phencyclidine.

The claustrum is the region of the brain in which the KOR is most densely expressed. It has been proposed that this area, based on its structure and connectivity, has "a role in coordinating a set of diverse brain functions", and the claustrum has been elucidated as playing a crucial role in consciousness. As examples, lesions of the claustrum in humans are associated with disruption of consciousness and cognition, and electrical stimulation of the area between the insula and the claustrum has been found to produce an immediate loss of consciousness in humans along with recovery of consciousness upon cessation of the stimulation. On the basis of the preceding knowledge, it has been proposed that inhibition of the claustrum (as well as, "additionally, the deep layers of the cortex, mainly in prefrontal areas") by activation of KORs in these areas is primarily responsible for the profound consciousness-altering/dissociative hallucinogen effects of salvinorin A and other KOR agonists. In addition, it has been stated that "the subjective effects of S. divinorum indicate that salvia disrupts certain facets of consciousness much more than the largely serotonergic hallucinogen [LSD]", and it has been postulated that inhibition of a brain area that is apparently as fundamentally involved in consciousness and higher cognitive function as the claustrum may explain this. However, these conclusions are merely tentative, as "[KORs] are not exclusive to the claustrum; there is also a fairly high density of receptors located in the prefrontal cortex, hippocampus, nucleus accumbens and putamen", and "disruptions to other brain regions could also explain the consciousness-altering effects [of salvinorin A]".

In supplementation of the above, according to Addy et al.:

Mood, stress, and addiction

The involvement of the KOR in stress, as well as in consequences of chronic stress such as depression, anxiety, anhedonia, and increased drug-seeking behavior, has been made clear. KOR agonists are notably dysphoric and aversive at sufficient doses. The KOR antagonists buprenorphine, as ALKS-5461 (a combination formulation with samidorphan), and CERC-501 (LY-2456302) are currently in clinical development for the treatment of major depressive disorder and substance use disorders. JDTic and PF-4455242 were also under investigation but development was halted in both cases due to toxicity concerns.

The depressive-like behaviors following prolonged morphine abstinence appear to be mediated by upregulation of the KOR/dynorphin system in the nucleus accumbens, as the local application of a KOR antagonist prevented the behaviors. As such, KOR antagonists might be useful for the treatment of depressive symptoms associated with opioid withdrawal.

In a small clinical study, pentazocine, a KOR agonist, was found to rapidly and substantially reduce symptoms of mania in patients with bipolar disorder. It was postulated that the efficacy observed was due to KOR activation-mediated amelioration of excessive dopaminergic signaling in the reward pathways.

Others 
A variety of other effects of KOR activation are known:

 Activation of the KOR appears to antagonize many of the effects of the MOR, including analgesia, tolerance, euphoria, and memory regulation. Nalorphine and nalmefene are dual MOR antagonists and KOR agonists that have been used clinically as antidotes for opioid overdose, although the specific role and significance of KOR activation in this indication, if any, is uncertain. In any case however, KOR agonists notably do not affect respiratory drive, and hence do not reverse MOR activation-induced respiratory depression.
 KOR agonists suppress itching, and the selective KOR agonist nalfurafine is used clinically as an antipruritic (anti-itch drug).
 Eluxadoline is a peripherally restricted KOR agonist as well as MOR agonist and DOR antagonist that has been approved for the treatment of diarrhea-predominant irritable bowel syndrome. Asimadoline and fedotozine are selective and similarly peripherally restricted KOR agonists that were also investigated for the treatment of irritable bowel syndrome and reportedly demonstrated at least some efficacy for this indication but were ultimately never marketed.
 KOR agonists are known for their characteristic diuretic effects, due to their negative regulation of vasopressin, also known as antidiuretic hormone (ADH).
 KOR agonism is neuroprotective against hypoxia/ischemia.
 The selective KOR agonist U-50488 protected rats against supramaximal electroshock seizures, indicating that KOR agonism may have anticonvulsant effects.

Signal transduction 
KOR activation by agonists is coupled to the G protein Gi/G0, which subsequently increases phosphodiesterase activity. Phosphodiesterases break down cAMP, producing an inhibitory effect in neurons. KORs also couple to inward-rectifier potassium and to N-type calcium ion channels. Recent studies have also demonstrated that agonist-induced stimulation of the KOR, like other G-protein coupled receptors, can result in the activation of mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPK). These include extracellular signal-regulated kinase, p38 mitogen-activated protein kinases, and c-Jun N-terminal kinases.

Ligands

Agonists 
The synthetic alkaloid ketazocine and terpenoid natural product s