[The Physical Basis of Life — Huxley — Gutenberg #38262]

at it would have made them hungry, if they had not, as they always did have, the appetite of hunters. The master of ceremonies did allow them one day, however, among the peafowl. In a piece of jungle--which Chisholm as usual persisted in calling a moor--they found these beautiful birds in great abundance: they were early astir that morning. They had their own beaters, who were principally Mahratta men, whom they had engaged in Bombay, and whom Lyell had armed with rifles as well as spears. "It is a mean thing," this gallant officer said to our heroes, "to send a man into the bush unarmed; yet Englishmen constantly do it." Independently of these they had volunteers from among the simple Hindoo folks in whose country they were. Brave, fool-hardy in fact, but as a rule indolent, these men would work all day, for the sake of earning a morsel of tobacco. It was a glorious day's shooting our sportsmen, had, and it was but one of many such days they enjoyed, after their encampment at the foot of the mountains had been fairly formed. Neither of them were fond of what is called battue shooting, deeming it, as every true sportsman must, somewhat unjust to the birds; but here there were very many mouths to fill, and four guns to do all the work of filling them. So they had to make good bags. And they did too. It was always their custom to be early astir, but they did not start on an empty stomach you may be well sure; and they were quite ready for luncheon at twelve. Then would come the hour for siesta; for during the time of day when the sun is at its highest and its hottest, it is neither pleasant nor safe to be out of the shade in India. "Why, Lyell," Fred Freeman said on the evening of the first day's big shoot, "you have brought us to a perfect paradise, and a sportsman's paradise too." A sportsman's paradise? Yes, surely the contents of those lordly bags testified to that. And what was it that was wanting in that bag, I wonder? Nothing you could wish to see. Here were pigeons by the dozen, and peafowls and jungle-fowls, to shoot which they had threaded the dark mazes of the forest. Here were ducks and geese, ay, and snipe and teal, which they had waded neck-deep in paddy fields to find, to say nothing of big fat bustards, and grouse and red-legged partridge, that had fallen to their guns while crossing the moor; and last, but certainly not least, a hare or two as well. Now, when I say that there were growing around them, everywhere, the most luscious fruits that can be imagined; when I say that the earth yielded its turmeric [the basis of curry powder], and its deliciously esculent roots; that spices of all kinds could be had for the gathering, that the cocoa-nut palms held high aloft their tempting fruits, and that the river abounded with fish, will you wonder when I tell you that our friends lived like fighting-cocks. Would they not have been fools if they hadn't? Chisholm and Frank occupied one sleeping tent, Fred Freeman and Captain Lyell another. Very comfortably too those tents were furnished, and each canvas bed had its own mosquito curtain. One night, however, Frank found it impossible to sleep, so he got up quietly, dressed, and went out. What a heavenly night! Never, except in the far-off sea of ice, had he seen stars so bright and large. There was light enough almost to read by. He could see everything around him--the men lying asleep at the foot of the snow-white dining tent, the elephants and the picketed horses, and, farther away, jungle and plain, forest and hills, all bathed in starlight. Frank could hear, high over the loud hum of insect life, the distant yelp of the jackal, the gibber of the striped hyaena, and the unearthly yell of the jungle cat. "If there is nothing more terrible than that about," he said to himself, "I shall go for a walk, just a little way. Jooma," he continued, addressing the sentinel, "I'm going to the banks of the river." "Take care, sahib, take care," was the sentinel's warning. When two whole hours passed away, and there were no signs of Frank's return, Jooma became alarmed, and roused Chisholm, and Chisholm aroused the whole camp. Frank must be found, and that right speedily; but where were they to seek him? While they were deliberating which way to go, the report of a rifle fell on their ears, coming from the forest behind the camp. Meanwhile clouds had banked up and obscured a great portion of the sky. "Now, hurry men, hurry, get your torches and come, there isn't a moment to be lost if you would save my friend." In ten minutes more they were on his track: by bent grass by a single footprint, by a broken twig, and a hundred little signs that the eye of a European would never have noticed, these men followed the trail by torchlight, till far into the deepest and darkest part of the great forest. But now a pause ensued. The trackers were puzzled. The truth is, that it was just at this spot that the disagreeable truth flashed upon poor Frank that he was lost. He had felt sure he could easily retrace his steps, but trying to do so only led to a series of useless wanderings up and down and round and round, often coming back again to the same spot, though he knew it not, until the starlight forsook him, and he found himself at last in the terrible position presently to be described. The trackers are at fault, and no wonder, yet not three hundred yards away Frank lies at the bottom of a pit, into which he had stumbled, and pulled after him the large withered branch of a mango-tree, and his rifle had gone off as he fell. He hears his friends firing to attract his attention, he cannot reach his rifle to reply. But there adown the wind at last comes a thrice-welcome shout, "Coo-ee-ee!" He tries to answer, but the branch lies across his chest, and he can hardly breathe. "Coo-ee-ee! Coo-ee-ee!" They hear his muffled tones at last; they look no more for track nor trail. Forward they dash, holding the torches high over head. "Coo-oo-ee!" A gigantic leopard rises from his lair, but with a startled yell disappears in a moment in the darkness. Was that a huge python coiled round the tree? If it was he had no time to strike, so quickly do they speed along. "Coo-ee-ee!" They are close at hand now, and now they are at the very mouth of the pit, and Frank can talk to them and tell them how he is trapped. Chisholm was so glad to see his friend once more safe and alive, that he forgot entirely that he had resolved to scold him properly for his rashness and folly. But Frank never afterwards cared to have any allusion made to his night ramble, and resented almost warmly Fred Freeman's attempt to dub him the "somnambulist." CHAPTER FOURTEEN. ADVENTURE WITH A PYTHON--MOONDAH'S HOUSE--"THE TIGER! THE TIGER!"-- PANTHERS--HUNTING WITH THE CHEETAH--THE PANTHER AND THE BOAR. "Do you really think there are pythons or boa constrictors in the forest?" asked Frank next day at dinner. "I haven't a doubt of it," replied Lyell. "At the same time I cannot quite swallow all the tracker says about the enormity of the serpent he saw when following up your trail in the woods." "No," said Chisholm, "fifty feet of snake is rather more than most men can swallow; but had you seen the tracker's eyes when he saw the tiger, you'd have been willing to admit that they were big enough to accommodate a very large amount of boa constrictor." "It puts me in mind of an adventure I once had in South Africa," said Lyell. "One doesn't like speaking much of one's self, but I think, on the occasion I refer to, I exhibited a fair amount of firmness and presence of mind in a moment of deadly peril to one of my men. I had been out for a fortnight's shoot, beyond and to the nor'ard of the Natal provinces. There were four of us--our doctor, our purser, marine officer, and myself. Our sport was good, and the fun we had fairish. We were seated at lunch one day in an open glade in the forest, when suddenly we were startled by hearing the most terrific yells; and on looking up beheld one of our Caffres speeding towards us, pursued by an enormous python. There was no time for escape, had escape been honourable, which it was not. I seized the rifle and bayonet from one of our attendant marines, and next moment the python was impaled. Oh, don't think for a moment that that would have killed him! In half a second he had almost wriggled clear; but in doing so he turned the rifle round so that the muzzle pointed almost down his throat. It was a terrible moment--thank Heaven that rifle was loaded, and that I had the presence of mind to pull the trigger! It was a case of `all hands stand clear' now. The python's head was shattered, but the convulsions of his body, ere death closed the scene, were fearful to witness. I don't want to see the like again. His body measured five-and-thirty feet; the gape of his jaws measured over a yard. I can understand a monster like this swallowing a goat or even a deer itself." A day or two after this the camp was struck, and a move made nearer to the mountains, the tents being erected close to the river as before, but still on elevated ground. Here they were, then, in the very centre of what might be called the home of the wild beasts, and both sport and adventure might reasonably be expected in any quantity. Herds of elephants roamed in the deep forests, tigers and wild pigs were in the thickets; bears, too, would be found, and birds everywhere. They formed no particular plan of attack upon the denizens of this wilderness; they were bold hunters every one of them; they carried their lives in their hands, but they omitted no precaution to defend and protect them. They always went abroad prepared for anything. Chisholm called the spot where the camp was now fixed--and where it remained until the commencement of the south-west monsoon warned them it was time for departure--his Highland home. It was indeed a Highland home, and