# Latent Dirichlet allocation

In natural language processing, Latent Dirichlet Allocation (LDA) is a Bayesian network (and, therefore, a generative statistical model) that explains a set of observations through unobserved groups, and each group explains why some parts of the data are similar. The LDA is an example of a Bayesian topic model. In this, observations (e.g., words) are collected into documents, and each word's presence is attributable to one of the document's topics. Each document will contain a small number of topics.

History 
In the context of population genetics, LDA was proposed by J. K. Pritchard, M. Stephens and P. Donnelly in 2000.

LDA was applied in machine learning by David Blei, Andrew Ng and Michael I. Jordan in 2003.

Overview

Evolutionary biology and bio-medicine 
In evolutionary biology and bio-medicine, the model is used to detect the presence of structured genetic variation in a group of individuals. The model assumes that alleles carried by individuals under study have origin in various extant or past populations. The model and various inference algorithms allow scientists to estimate the allele frequencies in those source populations and the origin of alleles carried by individuals under study. The source populations can be interpreted ex-post in terms of various evolutionary scenarios. 
In association studies, detecting the presence of genetic structure is considered a necessary preliminary step to avoid confounding.

Clinical psychology, mental health, and social science 
In clinical psychology research, LDA has been used to identify common themes of self-images experienced by young people in social situations. Other social scientists have used LDA to examine large sets of topical data from discussions on social media (e.g., tweets about prescription drugs).

Musicology 
In the context of computational musicology, LDA has been used to discover tonal structures in different corpora.

Machine learning 
One application of LDA in machine learning - specifically, topic discovery, a subproblem in natural language processing - is to discover topics in a collection of documents, and then automatically classify any individual document within the collection in terms of how "relevant" it is to each of the discovered topics. A topic is considered to be a set of terms (i.e., individual words or phrases) that, taken together, suggest a shared theme.

For example, in a document collection related to pet animals, the terms dog, spaniel, beagle, golden retriever, puppy, bark, and woof would suggest a DOG_related theme, while the terms cat, siamese, Maine coon, tabby, manx, meow, purr, and kitten would suggest a CAT_related theme. There may be many more topics in the collection - e.g., related to diet, grooming, healthcare, behavior, etc. that we do not discuss for simplicity's sake. (Very common, so called stop words in a language  - e.g., "the", "an", "that", "are", "is", etc., - would not discriminate between topics and are usually filtered out by pre-processing before LDA is performed. Pre-processing also converts terms to their "root" lexical forms - e.g., "barks", "barking", and "barked" would be converted to "bark".)

If the document collection is sufficiently large, LDA will discover such sets of terms (i.e., topics) based upon the co-occurrence of individual terms, though the task of assigning a meaningful label to an individual topic (i.e., that all the terms are DOG_related) is up to the user, and often requires specialized knowledge (e.g., for collection of technical documents). The LDA approach assumes that:
 The semantic content of a document is composed by combining one or more terms from one or more topics.
 Certain terms are ambiguous, belonging to more than one topic, with different probability. (For example, the term training can apply to both dogs and cats, but are more likely to refer to dogs, which are used as work animals or participate in obedience or skill competitions.) However, in a document, the accompanying presence of specific neighboring terms (which belong to only one topic) will disambiguate their usage.
 Most documents will contain only a relatively small number of topics. In the collection, e.g., individual topics will occur with differing frequencies. That is, they have a probability distribution, so that a given document is more likely to contain some topics than others.
 Within a topic, certain terms will be used much more frequently than others. In other words, the terms within a topic will also have their own probability distribution.

When LDA machine learning is employed, both sets of probabilities are computed during the training phase, using Bayesian methods and an Expectation Maximization algorithm.

LDA is a generalization of older approach of probabilistic latent semantic analysis (pLSA), The pLSA model is equivalent to LDA under a uniform Dirichlet prior distribution.
pLSA relies on only the first two assumptions above and does not care about the remainder. 
While both methods are similar in principle and require the user to specify the number of topics to be discovered before the start of training (as with K-means clustering) LDA has the following advantages over pLSA:
 LDA yields better disambiguation of words and a more precise assignment of documents to topics.
 Computing probabilities allows a "generative" process by which a collection of new “synthetic documents” can be generated that would closely reflect the statistical characteristics of the original collection.
 Unlike LDA, pLSA is vulnerable to overfitting especially when the size of corpus increases.
 The LDA algorithm is more readily amenable to scaling up for large data sets using the MapReduce approach on a computing cluster.

Model 
  With plate notation, which is often used to represent probabilistic graphical models (PGMs), the dependencies among the many variables can be captured concisely. The boxes are "plates" representing replicates, which are repeated entities. The outer plate represents documents, while the inner plate represents the repeated word positions in a given document; each position is associated with a choice of topic and word. The variable names are defined as follows:

 M denotes the number of documents
 N is number of words in a given document (document i has  words)
 α is the parameter of the Dirichlet prior on the per-document topic distributions
 β is the parameter of the Dirichlet prior on the per-topic word distribution
  is the topic distribution for document i
  is the word distribution for topic k
  is the topic for the j-th word in document i
  is the specific word.

The fact that W is grayed out means that words  are the only observable variables, and the other variables are latent variables.
As proposed in the original paper, a sparse Dirichlet prior can be used to model the topic-word distribution, following the intuition that the probability distribution over words in a topic is skewed, so that only a small set of words have high probability. The resulting model is the most widely applied variant of LDA today. The plate notation for this model is shown on the right, where  denotes the number of topics and  are -dimensional vectors storing the parameters of the Dirichlet-distributed topic-word distributions ( is the number of words in the vocabulary).

It is helpful to think of the entities represented by  and  as matrices created by decomposing the original document-word matrix that represents the corpus of documents being modeled. In this view,  consists of rows defined by documents and columns defined by topics, while  consists of rows defined by topics and columns defined by words. Thus,   refers to a set of rows, or vectors, each of which is a distribution over words, and refers to a set of rows, each of which is a distribution over topics.

Generative process 
To actually infer the topics in a corpus, we imagine a generative process whereby the documents are created, so that we may infer, or reverse engineer, it. We imagine the generative process as follows. Documents are represented as random mixtures over latent topics, where each topic is characterized by a distribution over all the words. LDA assumes the following generative process for a corpus  consisting of  documents each of length :

1. Choose , where  and
 is a Dirichlet distribution with a symmetric parameter  which typically is sparse ()

2. Choose , where  and  typically is sparse

3. For each of the word positions , where , and 

 (a) Choose a topic 

 (b) Choose a word 

(Note that multinomial distribution here refers to the multinomial with only one trial, which is also known as the categorical distribution.)

The lengths  are treated as independent of all the other data generating variables ( and ). The subscript is often dropped, as in the plate diagrams shown here.

Definition
A formal description of LDA is as follows:

We can then mathematically describe the random variables as follows:

Inference 

Learning the various