# English translations of the Quran

Following is a list of English translations of the Quran. The first translations were created in the 17th and 19th centuries by non-Muslims, but the majority of existing translations have been produced in the 20th and 21st centuries.  

The earliest known English translation is The Alcoran (1649) which is attributed to Alexander Ross, chaplain to King Charles I. It was translated from the French translation, L'Alcoran de Mahomet, by the Sieur du Ryer. 

The Koran, Commonly Called the Alcoran of Mohammed (1734) was the first scholarly translation of the Quran and was the most widely available English translation for 200 years and is still in print. George Sale based this two-volume translation on the Latin translation by Louis Maracci (1698).  Thomas Jefferson had a copy of Sale's translation, now in the Library of Congress, that was used for House Representative Keith Ellison's oath of office ceremony on 3 January 2007. 

Muslims did not begin translating the Quran into English until the early 20th century. The Qur'an (1910) was translated by Mirza Abul Fazl of Allahabad, India. He was the first Muslim to present a translation of the Qur'an in English. The English Translation of the Holy Qur'an with Commentary (1917), translated by Maulana Muhammad Ali, was "the first English translation by an Ahmadiyyah follower to be generally available and to be made accessible to the West." Muhammad Ali was the leader of the Lahori Ahmadis. Wallace Fard Muhammad, the founder of the Nation of Islam, exclusively used Ali's translation.

The meaning of the Qur'an (1940) by Muhammad Asad AKA Leopold Weis, was first original work by a European in English on interpretation of Quran and have translation. He started writing the commentary while living in Arabia in the 30s. Available at al-quran.info.

The Koran Interpreted (1955) by Arthur Arberry was the first English translation of the Quran by an academic scholar of Arabic, Islam, and Sufism. Arberry attempted to maintain the rhythms and cadence of the Arabic text. For many years, it was the scholarly standard for English translations.

The Holy Qur'an: Arabic Text and English Translation (1990) was the first translation by a Muslim woman, Amatul Rahman Omar.

The Noble Quran: Meaning With Explanatory Notes (2007) by Taqi Usmani is the first English translation of the Quran ever written by a traditionalist Deobandi scholar.

Clear Quran (2012) by Talal Itani, a computer programmer Arab American, emphasis on simplicity and literal translation, available online at al-quran.info and m.clearquran.com.

 The Easy Quran: A Translation in Simple English. Translated by Tahir Mahmood Kiani. Ta-Ha Publishers Ltd. 2022, (originally published independently, 2019). (https://tahapublishers.com/book/the-easy-quran). It is considered the easiest and most accessible translation by far, useful for both children and adults.

Non-Muslim translations
 The Alcoran, Translated Out of Arabic into French. By the Andrew du Ryer, Lord of Malezair, and Resident for the French King, at Alexandria. And Newly Englished, for the Satisfaction of all that Desire to Look into the Turkish Vanities. London: Anno Dom, 1649. 

 The Koran, Commonly Called the Alcoran of Mohammed, tr. into English Immediately from the Original Arabic; with Explanatory Notes, Taken from the Most Approved Commentators. To Which Is Prefixed a Preliminary Discourse. Translated by George Sale. London: C. Ackers, 1734, available online at al-quran.info.
 The Koran. Translated by John Medows Rodwell. London: J. M. Dent & Sons Ltd., 1861.
 The Quran. Translated by E.H. Palmer. Oxford: Clarendon Press, 1880.
 The Qur'an: Translated, with a Critical Re-arrangement of the Surahs. Translated by Richard Bell. Edinburgh: T. & T. Clark, 1939.
The Koran Interpreted. 2 volumes. Translated by Arthur Arberry. New York: Macmillan,1955.
 The Koran: A New Translation. Translated by N. J. Dawood. New York: Penguin, 1956.
 The Qur'an: A New Translation. Translated by Thomas Cleary. United States: Starlatch Press, 2004. .
 The Qur'an. Translated by Alan Jones. Edinburgh: Edinburgh University Press, 2007. 
 The Qur'an: A New Annotated Translation. Translated by Arthur J. Droge. Sheffield: Equinox Publishing Limited, 2012. 
 The Qur'an (Norton Critical Editions). Translated by Jane Dammen McAuliffe. New York: W. W. Norton & Company, 2017. .
 The Critical Qur'an: Explained from Key Islamic Commentaries and Contemporary Historical Research. Translated by Robert B. Spencer. New York: Bombardier Books, 2022.

Notes

Ahmadi translations 
 The Holy Qurán. Translated by Mohammad Khan. Patiala: Rajinder Press, 1905.
 The English Translation of the Holy Qur'an with Commentary. Translated by Maulana Muhammad Ali. Punjab: 1917. 
 The Holy Quran: Arabic Text and English Translation.Translated by Maulvi Sher Ali. Netherlands: 1955. 
 The English Commentary of the Holy Quran. 5 volumes. Translated by Maulvi Sher Ali, Mirza Bashir Ahmad and Malik Ghulam Farid. Ahmadiyya Muslim Community, 1963.
 The Wonderful Koran: A New English Translation. Translated by Pir Salahuddin. Eminabad: The Raftar-I-Zamana Publications, 1969.
  The Quran. Translated by Muhammad Zafrulla Khan. London: Curzon Press, 1970.
 The Holy Qur'an: Arabic Text and English Translation.Translated by Amatul Rahman Omar and Abdul Mannan Omar. Noor Foundation International, Inc., 1990. .

Notes

Intra-faith translations 
 The Study Quran: A New Translation and Commentary (2015). Edited by Seyyed Hossein Nasr, Caner K. Dagli, Maria Massi Dakake, Joseph E. B. Lumbard, and Mohammed Rustom.New York: HarperOne, 2015. .

Notes

Qur'anist translations 
 Quran: The Final Testament. Translated by Rashad Khalifa. Islamic Productions, 1981. .
 Exposition of the Holy Quran. Translated by Ghulam Ahmed Pervez. Lahore: Tolu-E-Islam Trust, 1996.
 The Qur'an As It Explains Itself. Translated by Shabbir Ahmed. Bedford: Lighthouse, 2003. .
 The Quran: A Reformist Translation. Translated by Edip Yuksel, Layth Saleh al-Shaiban, and Martha Schulte-Nafeh. London: Brainbow Press, 2007. . 
 The Message - A Translation of the Glorious Qur'an. Translated by the Monotheistic Group. London: Brainbow Press, 2008.
 The Qur’an: A Complete Revelation. Translated by Sam Gerrans. Quranite, 2016.

Notes

Shi'a translations 
 The Qur'an. Translated by Mirza Abul Fazl. Allahabad: Asgar & Co., 1911.
 The Qur'an. Translated by Mohammed Habib Shakir. New York: Tahirke Tarsile Qur'an, 1968.
 The Holy Qur'an: The Arabic Text and English Translation (1981). Translated by Muhammad Sarwar. Englewood: The Islamic Seminary Inc.,1981.
 The Holy Qur'an. Translated by Syed V. Mir Ahmed Ali. Tehran: Osweh Printing & Publication Co., 1988. 
 The Quran: A Poetic Translation. Translated by Fazlollah Nikayin. 2000. .
 The Qur'an in Persian and English. Translated by Tahere Saffarzadeh. 2001.
 The Qur'an with an English Paraphrase, Translated by Ali Quli Qara'i. Iranian Centre for Translation of the Holy Qur'an/Islamic Publications International, 2005. .
 The Sublime Qur'an. Translated by Laleh Bakhtiar. Chicago: Kazi Publications, Inc., 2007. . 
 The Magnificent Qur'an: A 21st Century English Translation.Translated by Ali Salami. Tempe: Leilah Publication, 2016. .

Notes

Sunni translations 
The Koran. Translated by Hairat Dihlawi. Delhi:  M. H. Press, 1916.
The Meaning of the Glorious Koran. Translated by Muhammad Marmaduke Pickthall. New York: A. A. Knopf, 1930., Available online at al-quran.info and islamawakened.org.
 The Holy Qur'an: Translation and Commentary. Translated by Abdullah Yusuf Ali. Lahore: Shaik Muhammad Ashraf Publishers of Bakhshi Bazaar, 1934.
 Tafseru-l-Qur'aan Translated by Abdul Majid Daryabadi. India: 1957.
 The Running Commentary of the Holy Qur-an with Under-Bracket Comments. Translated by Khadim Rahmani Nuri of Shillong, India: Sufi Hamsaya-Gurudwar, 1964.
 The Meaning of the Qur'an.Translated by Muhammad Akbar. Lahore: 1967.
  The Message of the Qur'an: Presented in Perspective (1974) Translated by Hashim Amir Ali. Rutland: C. E. Tuttle Co.,1974. .
 The Message of the Qur'an. Translated by Muhammad Asad. Gibraltar: Dar al-Andalus Limited, 1980. .
 The Qur'an: The First American Version. Translated by Thomas Ballantyne Irving (Al Hajj Ta'lim Ali Abu Nasr). Brattleboro: Amana Books, 1985.
 Al-Qur'an: A Contemporary Translation. Translated by Ahmed Ali. Princeton: Princeton University Press, 1988. 
 The Clarion Call of the Eternal Quran. Translated by Muhammad Khalilur Rahman. Dhaka: 1991.
 The Glorious Qur'an. Translated by Ahmad Zidan and Mrs. Dina Zidan. Zidan,1993. 
 A Simple Translation of The Holy Quran. Translated by Mir Aneesuddin. Hyderabad: Islamic Academy of Sciences, 1993.
 The Glorious Qur'an. Translated by Syed Vickar Ahamed. Kuala Lumpur: TR Group of Companies, 1999. 
 The Holy Qur'an. Translated by Emily B. Assami (Umm Muhammad), Amatullah J. Bantley, and Mary M. Kennedy. Jeddah: Dar Abul Qasim Publishing House, 1997.
 Al-Qur'an: Guidance for Man