# How the Grinch Stole Christmas (2000 film)

How the Grinch Stole Christmas (also known as Dr. Seuss' How the Grinch Stole Christmas, The Grinch, and sometimes Grinch 2000) is a 2000 American Christmas fantasy comedy film directed by Ron Howard, who also produced with Brian Grazer, from a screenplay written by Jeffrey Price and Peter S. Seaman. The film was based on Dr. Seuss's 1957 children's book of the same name, as the first Dr. Seuss book to be adapted into a full-length feature film and the first of only two live-action Dr. Seuss films, followed by The Cat in the Hat in 2003. This was also the second adaptation of the book, after the 1966 animated TV special of the same name.

Narrated by Anthony Hopkins, it stars Jim Carrey as the eponymous character, with Taylor Momsen, Jeffrey Tambor, Christine Baranski, Bill Irwin and Molly Shannon in supporting roles. The film centers on the Grinch, a misanthropic green creature who lives in a cave on nearby Mount Crumpit and despises the celebrations, as he attempts to sabotage their holiday plans in Whoville.

Produced by Imagine Entertainment, How the Grinch Stole Christmas was released by Universal Pictures in the United States on November 17, 2000. It received mixed reviews from critics, though Jim Carrey's performance received praise. The film spent four weeks as the #1 film in the United States and grossed $345.8 million worldwide, making it the sixth-highest grossing film of 2000. At the time, it also became the second-highest-grossing holiday film of all time, behind Home Alone (1990), until both films were surpassed in 2018 by the third film adaptation of the story. It won the Academy Award for Best Makeup, being nominated for Best Art Direction and Best Costume Design.

Plot

As the inhabitants of Whoville are getting ready for Christmas, the Grinch, a misanthropic green creature who lives in a cave on nearby Mount Crumpit, despises the celebrations and attempts to sabotage their holiday plans. Six-year-old Cindy Lou Who believes that everyone is too focused on gifts and festivities and not enough on personal relationships. She encounters the Grinch at the post office, where he is scrambling the delivery of Christmas cards and packages. Surprised by his sinister appearance, Cindy falls into the giant mail-sorting machine and gets stuck, but the Grinch grudgingly saves her. This convinces her that he cannot be as completely evil as the townsfolk believe, and she starts researching into his past.

Cindy learns that the Grinch arrived in Whoville as a baby, and was adopted by two elderly women. In school, the timid Grinch was infatuated with Martha May Whovier, a girl in his class who secretly reciprocated his feelings. However, jealous classmate Augustus MayWho bullied the Grinch and made fun of his hairy face. That Christmas, the young Grinch made an angel as a gift for Martha, then attempted to shave his face, accidentally cutting himself several times. When MayWho, the teacher, and the rest of the class saw the result, all but Martha laughed at him. This caused the Grinch to lose his temper, declare his hatred for Christmas, and flee to Mount Crumpit, where he has lived a solitary, scheming life ever since.

Cindy nominates the Grinch as the town's Holiday Cheermeister, outraging MayWho, who is now the mayor. She climbs Mount Crumpit to invite the Grinch to the celebration, and he eventually accepts, realizing he could potentially encounter Martha (now the Lou Whos' neighbor) and upset MayWho. As Cheermeister, he participates in various events and begins enjoying himself, until MayWho gives him an electric razor as a gift, reminding him of his childhood humiliation. MayWho then offers Martha a new car while publicly proposing to her. Enraged, the Grinch snaps and berates the Whos for their avaricious "love" of Christmas. He shaves MayWho's head, burns down the town's Christmas tree with a makeshift flamethrower, and goes on a rampage before returning home.

Learning that the Whos have a spare Christmas tree, and disgusted with the continuing festivities, the Grinch vows to crush the town's spirit by stealing all of their presents, decorations and food while they sleep. He disguises himself as Santa Claus and his pet dog Max as a reindeer, and descends into Whoville on a hi-tech sleigh. The first house he enters is Cindy's, and when she catches him stealing their tree, he lies to her to facilitate his escape. He singlehandedly strips the entire town of Christmas cheer, stuffing everything into a giant sack, then climbs back to the summit of Mount Crumpit to hurl the sack off of the mountain. 

Awakening on Christmas morning, the people are horrified to discover the theft, and MayWho blames Cindy for enabling the Grinch to ruin the town's spirit. However, her cheerful father, postmaster Lou Lou Who, defends her, declaring that she has tried to tell them that Christmas is not about decorations and gifts, but about spending time with family and friends. The townsfolk agree, join hands, and begin Christmas carolling.

Just as he is about to push the sack off the top of Mount Crumpit, the Grinch hears the people singing; realising he has failed to prevent the festivities, he understands the true meaning of Christmas. As he breaks down in tears, the sleigh full of gifts, Christmas trees and decorations begins to slide over the edge of the cliff, along with Cindy, who had come to visit the Grinch and climbed aboard. The Grinch saves Cindy and the sliegh, and they ride down the mountain to return everything. He apologizes for his scheme and surrenders to the police, who spare him and ignore MayWho's demand to arrest and pepper spray him. Realising MayWho's cruelty, Martha returns his engagement ring and declares her love for the Grinch. Later, the reformed Grinch invites the townsfolk over for the Christmas feast, where he personally carves the Roast Beast himself in his cave.

Cast
 Jim Carrey as the Grinch, a bad-tempered, devious and misanthropic green-furred creature who despises Christmas and the Whos of Whoville. Before Carrey was cast as the Grinch, Jack Nicholson and Eddie Murphy were both considered.
 Josh Ryan Evans as the eight-year-old Grinch (his final film role before his death in 2002).
 Taylor Momsen as Cindy Lou Who (in the film, she is six years old, while in the 1957 book and the 1966 TV special she is "no more than two")
 Jeffrey Tambor as Mayor Augustus MayWho, Whoville's arrogant and judgmental mayor
 Ben Bookbinder as eight-year-old Augustus MayWho, who bullies Grinch as an attempt to get Martha to notice him instead.
 Christine Baranski as the grown-up Martha May Whovier, who is mutually in love with the Grinch. Mayor Augustus Maywho also has feelings for her, but Martha does not like him because of his arrogance. 
 Landry Allbright as 8-year-old Martha May Whovier, who shows affection for the Grinch and dislikes when kids at school pick on him. 
 Bill Irwin as Louie Lou Who, Cindy's father
 Molly Shannon as Betty Lou Who, Cindy's mother
 Anthony Hopkins as the narrator
 Kelley as Max, the Grinch's pet dog and sole companion
 Frank Welker performs the vocal effects for Max. Welker had previously provided the vocal effects for Max in The Grinch Grinches the Cat in the Hat.
 Clint Howard as Whobris, the mayor's sycophantic aide and servant
 Reid Kirchenbauer as eight-year-old Whobris
 Mindy Sterling as Clarnella Who, one of the Grinch's adoptive mothers
 Rachel Winfree as Rose Who, the Grinch's other adoptive mother
 Jeremy Howard as Drew Lou Who, one of the mischievous sons of Louie and Betty and brother of Cindy
 T. J. Thyne as Stu Lou Who, the other mischievous son and brother of Cindy
 Jim Meskimen as Officer Wholihan, the chief of police
 Mary Stein as Miss Rue Who, the Grinch's school teacher who later becomes Cindy's teacher
 Deep Roy as Post Office Clerk
 Rance Howard as Elderly Timekeeper
 Verne Troyer as Band Member
 Bryce Dallas Howard as Surprised Who

Production 

Before his death in 1991, Dr. Seuss refused offers to sell the film rights to his books. After his death, his widow Audrey Geisel agreed to several merchandising deals, including clothing lines, accessories and CDs. In July 1998, her agents announced via letter that she would auction the film rights of How the Grinch Stole Christmas. To pitch their ideas to Geisel, the suitors had to be willing to pay $5 million, 4% of the box-office gross, 50% of the merchandising revenue and music-related material, and 70% of the income from book tie-ins. The letter also stated that "any actor submitted for the Grinch must be of comparable stature to Jack Nicholson, Jim Carrey, Robin Williams and Dustin Hoffman." Additionally, it was stipulated that the estate would not consider a director or writer who had not earned at least $1 million on a previous picture. 

20th Century Fox pitched its version with director Tom Shadyac and producers Dave Phillips and John Davis in attendance, with Nicholson in mind to play the Grinch. The Farrelly brothers a