Biology Research Paper

Title: Postbiotics-parabiotics: the new horizons in microbial biotherapy and functional foods

Abstract:
Probiotics have several health benefits by modulating gut microbiome; however, techno-functional limitations such as viability controls have hampered their full potential applications in the food and pharmaceutical sectors. Therefore, the focus is gradually shifting from viable probiotic bacteria towards non-viable paraprobiotics and/or probiotics derived biomolecules, so-called postbiotics. Paraprobiotics and postbiotics are the emerging concepts in the functional foods field because they impart an array of health-promoting properties. Although, these terms are not well defined, however, for time being these terms have been defined as here. The postbiotics are the complex mixture of metabolic products secreted by probiotics in cell-free supernatants such as enzymes, secreted proteins, short chain fatty acids, vitamins, secreted biosurfactants, amino acids, peptides, organic acids, etc. While, the paraprobiotics are the inactivated microbial cells of probiotics (intact or ruptured containing cell components such as peptidoglycans, teichoic acids, surface proteins, etc.) or crude cell extracts (i.e. with complex chemical composition)". However, in many instances postbiotics have been used for whole category of postbiotics and parabiotics. These elicit several advantages over probiotics like; (i) availability in their pure form, (ii) ease in production and storage, (iii) availability of production process for industrial-scale-up, (iv) specific mechanism of action, (v) better accessibility of Microbes Associated Molecular Pattern (MAMP) during recognition and interaction with Pattern Recognition Receptors (PRR) and (vi) more likely to trigger only the targeted responses by specific ligand-receptor interactions. The current review comprehensively summarizes and discussed various methodologies implied to extract, purify, and identification of paraprobiotic and postbiotic compounds and their potential health benefits.