# Katharine Bushnell

Katharine Bushnell (born Sophia Caroline Bushnell; February 5, 1855, in Evanston, Illinois – January 26, 1946) was a medical doctor, Christian writer, Bible scholar, social activist, and forerunner of feminist theology. Her lifelong quest was for biblical affirmation of the integrity and equality of women, and she published God's Word to Women  as a correction of mistranslation and misinterpretation of the Bible. As a missionary and a doctor, Bushnell worked to reform conditions of human degradation in North America, Europe, and Asia. She was recognized as a forceful and even charismatic speaker.

Early life and education 

Born February 5, 1856, in Evanston, Illinois, or “the great Methodist mecca of the northwest,” Bushnell's roots in Christianity were well established from the beginning. She grew up in the midst of a religious transition; Methodists in her community were striving to be faithful in every area of their lives while simultaneously craving popular success. With this transition came a shift in focus from the individual to the community as a whole, a change in philosophy which ultimately affected Bushnell's life path.

Bushnell showed the desire to further her education from an early age and attended Women's Northwestern College—now known as Northwestern University—from 1873–1874. Here, she studied under Dean Frances Willard, who inspired Bushnell to pursue a career in social justice. After Northwestern, Bushnell found another mentor in Dr. James Stewart Jewell. The catalyst behind her interest in medicine, Dr. Jewell convinced Bushnell to study medicine at Chicago Women's Medical College, where she specialized in nerve disorders. A driven and intelligent student, she graduated three years ahead of her peers. After obtaining her undergraduate and graduate degrees, Bushnell initially planned on entering postgraduate study but was persuaded by her home church to go to China as a medical missionary in 1879.

Early career

China 
Bushnell served as a medical doctor in Kiukiang, China from 1879 to 1882. Upon arrival, her original plan was to postpone setting up her practice and to get her affairs in order first and learn the native tongue. However, she was quickly overwhelmed with visitors seeking medical attention and, finding that she could not refuse their entreaties, treated hundreds of patients. In response to her friend's thriving practice, Dr. Ella Gilchrist came out to China to assist Bushnell, but the hot summers proved to be intolerable. In 1882, both women fell ill and soon after they were forced to return home.

Quite discouraged by this mission cut short, Bushnell left feeling that "her whole life had been a failure." Yet it was in China that she first became inspired to study Biblical translations. Brushing aside Chinese traditional medicines, Bushnell nevertheless examined Chinese culture more closely than missionaries who had gone before her. She noticed with indignation that the Chinese Bible changed Paul's fellows from women to men, and after that vowed to devote a portion of her life solely to "a meticulous examination of male bias that had corrupted the English text." While it is not confirmed, many sources claim that Bushnell established a pediatric hospital sponsored by the Woman's Mission Board of the Methodist Episcopal Church.

America

Women's Christian Temperance Union 
Upon Bushnell and Gilchrist's return from China, both women were looking for a cause that they could stand behind. After disappointment with their recently established American medical practice, the pair joined the Women's Christian Temperance Union, or the WCTU. Bushnell returned to her former mentor Willard and became the National Evangelist of the Department of Social Purity. "The largest women's organization of its time," the WCTU championed the causes of families and wives and campaigned to outlaw alcohol, believed to be the root of evil. This reform movement coexisted with the social purity movement, which sought to level the playing field of men and women by raising men's moral standards rather than lowering women's. Bushnell authored The Woman Condemned, a booklet in which she claimed that “the myth of female virtue only exacerbated the hostile legal environment;" rather than protecting women, the feminization of virtue harmed them. In her work, she accused men who called themselves godly yet did not hold themselves to biblical standards of behavior.

Wisconsin 
She attracted the most attention for her Wisconsin Crusade in 1888 against the "white slave trade." Bushnell ignored regional authorities who insisted that it was nonexistent and investigated herself, drawing the conclusion that prostitution in Wisconsin was exploitative and forced. After she succeeded in exposing the prostitution system as unjust, many attempts were made to slander her and take her words out of context, defaming her for creating "cruel lies." In response, Bushnell ordered all of her followers to believe only what she herself published. In 1887, Wisconsin passed Senate Bill 46, affectionately termed the “Kate Bushnell Bill” by her supporters. This piece of legislature made it a felony to abduct unmarried women for the purpose of prostitution and even contained provisions within the bill for mentally disabled women in order to ensure the safety of all women.

Global mission work 
Frustrated by her newfound notoriety and convinced that her status as somewhat of a celebrity distracted people from reform, Bushnell became a global missionary. For guidance, she wrote to Josephine Butler, a more experienced reformer than herself. Butler encouraged her to go to India, and in 1891 Bushnell brought her friend Elizabeth Andrew along with her. Unlike Bushnell, Andrew “struggled to shed her prejudice against ‘fallen women’” and for a time had difficulty in interacting with prostitutes the pair encountered.

India 
From 1891-1893, the two conducted the investigations into prostitution within British camps in the colonies. At the time of Bushnell and Andrew’s visit in the early 1890s, there were around 100 military cantonments in India under the control and ownership of Great Britain. With India having the greatest British military presence at about 1000 soldiers per regiment, leaders became worried about the potential outburst of the soldiers due to the lack of a sexual outlet. When the rate of venereal diseases continued to rise alarmingly among the men stationed in India, the British government realized that it was ineffective to merely turn the other way when military men consorted with sex workers, especially when they were paying the soldiers and covering the costs of their consistent transfers and travel expenses. Thus, the Contagious Diseases Acts were instituted in 1864. Women suspected of being prostitutes or carrying venereal diseases could be arrested and sent to lock hospitals to suffer a series of traumatic experiences described by Bushnell and Andrews as follows: The concern was with the potential contamination of British troops rather than the potential spread of foreign diseases among the native population, a point which Bushnell and Andrews emphasize. The pair published The Queen’s Daughters in India, a comprehensive account of their travels throughout India, in 1899. The inspiration for the title came from the missionaries' belief that “the Queen herself must not approve of the measures, ‘for she has daughters of her own; and she cares for her daughters in India also.'" The report consists of the two reformers' descriptions of the harrowing events which took place and their seemingly miraculous entrance into the cantonments. Since the commanding officer of a cantonment has the authority to remove anyone from the garrison at any time for any reason, the women had to step carefully and be sure not to raise suspicion. Furthermore, while they never explicitly lied about their intentions in visiting, they also never explicitly stated their purpose, allowing the officers and the women in charge of running the brothels—the mahaldarnis—to assume that they were there for an evangelical or medical purpose rather than investigative. The women's efforts led to a reprimand for Lord Roberts, the Commander-in-Chief, India.

Australia and New Zealand 
In early October 1892, Andrew and Bushnell travelled from Queensland, Australia to New Zealand. They first spoke in Auckland, giving an overview of the U.S. WCTU history and emphasising the concepts of temperance and social purity. Beginning on October 25, they spoke for several weeks in churches on behalf of the World WCTU, and allowed for the  WCTU NZ president, Annie Jane Schnackenberg, to invite the attendees to become members of a local Union as they worked on various projects, including the right for women to vote in national elections. In full agreement with the Auckland WCTU's efforts to push for the repeal of the 1869 Contagious Diseases Act, Dr. Bushnell "denounced the mocking conventionality of socie