# Calciphylaxis

Calciphylaxis, also known as calcific uremic arteriolopathy (CUA) or “Grey Scale”, is a rare syndrome characterized by painful skin lesions. The pathogenesis of calciphylaxis is unclear but believed to involve calcification of the small blood vessels located within the fatty tissue and deeper layers of the skin, blood clots, and eventual death of skin cells due to lack of blood flow. It is seen mostly in people with end-stage kidney disease but can occur in the earlier stages of chronic kidney disease and rarely in people with normally functioning kidneys. Calciphylaxis is a rare but serious disease, believed to affect 1-4% of all dialysis patients. It results in chronic non-healing wounds and indicates poor prognosis, with typical life expectancy of less than one year.

Calciphylaxis is one type of extraskeletal calcification. Similar extraskeletal calcifications are observed in some people with high levels of calcium in the blood, including people with milk-alkali syndrome, sarcoidosis, primary hyperparathyroidism, and hypervitaminosis D. In rare cases, certain medications such as warfarin can also result in calciphylaxis.

Signs and symptoms
The first skin changes in calciphylaxis lesions are mottling of the skin and induration in a livedo reticularis pattern. As tissue thrombosis and infarction occurs, a black, leathery eschar in an ulcer with adherent black slough develops. Surrounding the ulcers is usually a plate-like area of indurated skin. These lesions are always extremely painful and most often occur on the lower extremities, abdomen, buttocks, and penis. Lesions are also commonly multiple and bilateral. Because the tissue has infarcted, wound healing seldom occurs, and ulcers are more likely to become secondarily infected. Many cases of calciphylaxis lead to systemic bacterial infection and death.

Calciphylaxis is characterized by the following histologic findings:

 systemic medial calcification of the arteries, i.e. calcification of tunica media. Unlike other forms of vascular calcifications (e.g., intimal, medial, valvular), calciphylaxis is characterized also by
 small vessel mural calcification with or without endovascular fibrosis, extravascular calcification and vascular thrombosis, leading to tissue ischemia (including skin ischemia and, hence, skin necrosis).

Heart of stone 
Severe forms of calciphylaxis may cause diastolic heart failure from cardiac calcification, called  heart of stone. Widespread intravascular calcification typical of calciphylaxis lesions occur in the myocardium and prevent normal diastolic filling of the ventricles.

Cause
The cause of calciphylaxis is unknown. Calciphylaxis is not a hypersensitivity reaction (i.e., allergic reaction) leading to sudden local calcification. The disease is also known as calcific uremic arteriolopathy; however, the disease is not limited to patients with kidney failure. The current belief is that in end-stage kidney disease, abnormal calcium and phosphate homeostasis result in the deposition of calcium in the vessels, also known as metastatic calcification. Once the calcium has been deposited, a thrombotic event occurs within the lumen of these vessels, resulting in occlusion of the vessel and subsequent tissue infarction. Specific triggers for either thrombotic or ischemic events are unknown. Adipocytes have been shown to calcify vascular smooth muscle cells when exposed to high phosphate levels in vitro, mediated by vascular endothelial growth factor A (VEGF-A) and leptin released by adipocytes. Given that calciphylaxis tends to affect adipose tissue, this may be a contributing explanation. Another hypothesis has been proposed, that vitamin K deficiency contributes to the development of calciphylaxis. Vitamin K acts as an inhibitor of calcification in vessel walls by activating matrix Gla protein (MGP), which in turn inhibits calcification. End-stage kidney disease patients are more likely to have vitamin K deficiency due to dietary restrictions meant to limit potassium and sodium. Many end-stage kidney disease patients are also on a medication called warfarin, a vitamin K antagonist, that limits vitamin K recycling in the body.

Reported risk factors include female sex, obesity, elevated calcium-phosphate product, medications such as warfarin, vitamin D derivatives (e.g. calcitriol, calcium-based binders, or systemic steroids), protein C or S deficiency, low blood albumin levels, and diabetes mellitus. Patients who require or have undergone any type of vascular procedures are also at increased risk for poor outcomes.

Diagnosis
There is no diagnostic test for calciphylaxis. The diagnosis is a clinical one. The characteristic lesions are the ischemic skin lesions (usually with areas of skin necrosis). The necrotic skin lesions (i.e. the dying or already dead skin areas) typically appear as violaceous (dark bluish purple) lesions and/or completely black leathery lesions. They can be extensive and found in multiples. The suspected diagnosis can be supported by a skin biopsy, usually a punch biopsy, which shows arterial calcification and occlusion in the absence of vasculitis. Excisional biopsy should not be done due to increased risk of further ulceration and necrosis. Bone scintigraphy can be performed in cases where skin biopsy is contraindicated. Results of the study show increased tracer accumulation in the soft tissues.  In certain patients, an anti-nuclear antibody test may play a role in diagnosis of calciphylaxis. Plain radiography and mammography may also show calcifications but these tests are less sensitive. Laboratory studies, such as phosphate levels, calcium levels, and parathyroid levels, are nonspecific and unhelpful for diagnosis of calciphylaxis.

Treatment
The treatment of calciphylaxis requires a multidisciplinary approach, using the knowledge of nephrologists, plastic surgeons, dermatologists, and wound care specialists working together to manage the disease and its outcomes. The key to treating calciphylaxis is prevention via rigorous control of phosphate and calcium balance and management of risk factors in patients who have increased chances of developing calciphylaxis. There is no specific treatment. Most treatment recommendations lack significant data, and none are internationally recognized as the standard of care. It is generally accepted to apply a multi-pronged approach to each patient.

Analgesia and wound management 
Pain management and choice of analgesia is a challenging task in managing calciphylaxis. Pain is one of the most severe and pervasive symptoms of the disease and can be unresponsive to high-dose opioids. Fentanyl and methadone are preferred analgesics over morphine, since morphine breakdown produces active metabolites that accumulate in the body of patients with kidney failure. Adjunct medications such as gabapentin and ketamine may also be used for analgesia. In refractory cases, spinal anesthetics (nerve blocks) can be used for more comprehensive pain relief.
Wound care for calciphylaxis lesions involves using appropriate dressings, wound debridement (removal of dead tissue), and prevention of infection. Wound infections lead to sepsis, which is one of the leading causes of death in patients with calciphylaxis. Surgical wound debridement carries increased risk for infection, so it should only be considered as therapy if the survival benefit outweighs the chances of continued wound non-healing and pain.
Hyperbaric oxygen therapy may also be considered. There are some smaller retrospective studies that show the use of hyperbaric oxygen in improving delivery of oxygen to wounds, which improves blood flow and helps with wound healing.

Risk factor mitigation 
Most patients with calciphylaxis are already on hemodialysis, or simply dialysis, but the length or frequency of sessions may be increased. The majority of dialysis patients are on a 4-hour three times per week schedule. Indications for increasing dialysis session length or frequency include electrolyte and mineral abnormalities, such as hyperphosphatemia, hypercalcemia, and hyperparathyroidism, all of which are also risk factors for development of calciphylaxis. Peritoneal dialysis patients should also transition to hemodialysis, as only hemodialysis carries the added benefit of better phosphate and calcium control. Surgical parathyroidectomy is also recommended for those who have difficulty managing phosphate and calcium level balance. However, risks include development of post-operative hungry bone syndrome (HBS), a disease state that causes low calcium and requires use of calcium supplementation and calcitriol, which should be avoided in patients with end-stage kidney disease and calciphylaxis.

Pharmacotherapy 
Sodium thiosulfate is commonly prescribed for treatment in patients with calciphylaxis. The actual mechanism of the drug is unknown, but several explanations have been proposed, including chelation of calcium, vasodilation, antioxidant propertie