# Four Branches of the Mabinogi

The Four Branches of the Mabinogi or  are the earliest prose stories in the literature of Britain. Originally written in Wales in Middle Welsh, but widely available in translations, the  is generally agreed to be a single work in four parts, or "branches." The interrelated tales can be read as mythology, political themes, romances, or magical fantasies. They appeal to a wide range of readers, from young children to the most sophisticated adult. The tales are popular today in book format, as storytelling or theatre performances; they appear in recordings and on film, and continue to inspire many reinterpretations in artwork and modern fiction.

Overview
The  are known as the Four Branches of the , or  in Welsh. The tales were compiled from oral tradition in the 11th century. They survived in private family libraries via medieval manuscripts, of which two main versions and some fragments continue to survive today. Early modern scholarship of the  saw the tales as a garbled Welsh mythology which prompted attempts to salvage or reconstruct them. Since the 1970s the tales have become recognised as a complex secular literature, though rooted in and containing elements of Welsh Mythology, with powerfully explored characters, political, ethical and gendered themes, as well as imaginative fantasies. The style of writing is admired for its deceptive simplicity and controlled wordpower, as well as intricate doublets where mirrorings have been compared to Celtic knotwork. The world displayed within the  extends across Wales, to Ireland, and into England. It presents a legendary Britain as a united land under a king, yet with powerful separate princedoms, where native Welsh law,  (magic), and romance, combine in a unique synergy. Possible authors who have been proposed for the Four Branches include  and .

Each Branch contains several tale episodes in a sequence, and each Branch is titled with the name of a leading protagonist. These titles are  and , but this is a modern custom; the Branches are not titled in the mediaeval manuscripts. Only one character appears in all four Branches, , though he is never dominant or central to any of the Branches.

  Prince of  tells of the heroic and magical sojourn of  in , his shapeshifting, chastity and a duel, which all establish a mighty alliance. The formidable  courts him, and he helps her win her freedom to marry him. The strange abduction at birth of their baby son follows, with his rescue, fostering and restoration by the good lord  of the Kingdom of Gwent. The child is named .
  Daughter of  follows 's marriage to the King of Ireland, who abuses her due to insult by her half brother, . A tragically genocidal war develops fomented by , in which a Cauldron which resurrects the dead figures, and the giant king Bran's head survives his death in an enchanted idyll.  is merely named as a war survivor, and  dies, heartbroken.
  Son of  brother of , heir to the throne of Britain, becomes 's good friend during the war.  arranges his friend's marriage to . The land of  is devastated. Journeys in England setting up craft businesses follow. An enchanted trap removes  and  becomes a farmer. He cannily negotiates their release, as well as the restoration of the land, by confronting the villain behind it all. 
  Son of  is a dark sequence of deception and treachery: war with , the death of , the double rape of a virgin girl, and the rejection of an unwanted hero son by proud  her magician brother is the architect of all these destinies. He adds an artificially incubated pregnancy, and a synthetic woman. She, , creates a treacherous love triangle, murder in a peculiar manner.  makes a shamanic journey of redemption.

The Branches

First branch: , Prince of 

, " Prince of ", hunting on his own land, meets the shining  or "Hounds of ", and takes another man's kill, a stag, for himself. , the king of , is greatly offended. As recompense,  switches bodies with  and dwells in  to vanquish 's adversary.  chastely shares the queen's bed for a year.  defeats 's enemy , and is then rewarded with an alliance between his land of , and  then returns home to  where he finds it has been well ruled by  in the past year.

Next,  encounters , a beautiful and powerful maiden on a shining magical horse. They are strangely unreachable by anyone, for as they attempt to approach,  and her horse get further away. Finally, they ask her to stop in which she complies and it is revealed that  has chosen  as her husband, which he welcomes. On  and 's wedding day in the court of  appears in disguise and tricks  into giving him the entire wedding feast and  then guides  through a cunning strategy using her magic bag which can never be filled, to extricate her from her betrothal to the princely  is trapped in the bag and beaten by 's men until he agrees to 's terms, including foregoing vengeance.

 eventually bears  a son and heir, but the child disappears the night he is born. 's maids, in fear of their lives, accuse her of killing and eating her own baby.  negotiates a penalty where she must sit at the castle gate every day for seven years telling her terrible tale to strangers and offer them a ride on her back. Meanwhile, the child is rescued from its monstrous abductor by . He and his wife adopt the boy who grows heroically apace, and adores horses. They called him  ( 'Golden Hair', ).  sees the boy's resemblance to , so he restores the boy to  for a happy ending.  is vindicated as is 's loyalty to her. Their son is renamed  "Loss", as is custom from his mother's first words to him:  puns on anxiety and labour. In due course,  inherits the rule of .

Second Branch: , Daughter of  

In the second branch, , sister of Brân the Blessed, king of Britain, is requested by and given in marriage to , king of Ireland. 's half-brother , angered that no one consulted him, insults  by mutilating all his valuable horses so horribly they become useless.  the Blessed gives  compensation in the form of new horses and treasure, then added a magical cauldron () which can restore the dead to life, although the revived persons will always remain unable to speak. The legend of this cauldron, when the two kings compare its lore, is that it came from Ireland.

In Ireland,  and  have a son, . The Irish nobles continue to be hostile because of what  did.  allows them to sway him, and casts  away to serf in the kitchens, struck on the face every day by a low-caste butcher.  trains a starling to take a message to  across the Irish Sea. He musters his host and crosses the sea to war on  is so huge he wades across with his ships beside him.  persuades the Irish to sue for peace by building a colossal building to house , which he has never had before.
   
The Irish hide two hundred warriors in the house, hanging in bags on its pillars.  shrewdly suspects treachery and disbelieves the Irish story these are bags of flour. He crushes the skull of each hidden warrior, singing after he does it. Later, at the feast,  deliberately seeks to create discord. He throws his infant nephew  on the fire and kills him. Fighting breaks out and the Irish use the Cauldron to revive their dead.  hides among the corpses to get in the Cauldron, stretches and cracks it, dying as he does so.

The war had become a genocide. Five pregnant women survive to repopulate Ireland. Only Seven Survivors remained of the British host, besides . One is 's other brother, and his good friend , mortally wounded by a poisoned spear, bids the survivors to cut off his head, and take it to bury at the White Tower in London. He prophesies his head will be their good companion and advise them, while they will sojourn for many years of idyllic feasting, first at  in , then on the isle of  in . But on arriving back in Britain,  dies of grief for the many who have died.

 means 'raven';  means 'white raven'; and  means 'trouble, strife'.

Third Branch: , son of  

 of  returns from the Irish War as one of its few survivors, to reunite with his mother , and his wife . He brings with him his beloved war comrade, , the heir to the kingship of all Britain. But 's rights as heir to Britain have been usurped by , and he does not want more war.  establishes him as the lord of , including marriage to , a union which both partners welcome. The four of them,  and her new husband , become very good friends indeed, and travel the land of  admiring how bountiful it is.

Together they sit the , as  once did. A clap of thunder, a bright light, and magical mist descend. Afterwards the land is devastated of all other life except wild animals. The four live by hunting, but after two years they want more, so they travel to England. In three towns in turn they craft saddles, shields and shoes of such quality that the local craftsmen cannot compete, so their envy becomes dangerous.  dislikes the lower class way of life, and  stops him from fighting their enemies. Instead  insists on moving away. After three attempts like this, they ret