# The Devil Wears Prada (film)

The Devil Wears Prada is a 2006 American comedy-drama film directed by David Frankel and produced by Wendy Finerman. The screenplay, written by Aline Brosh McKenna, is based on Lauren Weisberger's 2003 novel of the same name. The film adaptation stars Meryl Streep as Miranda Priestly, a powerful fashion magazine editor, and Anne Hathaway as Andrea "Andy" Sachs, a college graduate who goes to New York City and lands a job as Priestly's co-assistant. Emily Blunt and Stanley Tucci co-star as co-assistant Emily Charlton and art director Nigel Kipling, respectively. Simon Baker and Adrian Grenier play pivotal supporting roles.

In 2003, 20th Century Fox bought the rights to a film adaptation of Weisberger's novel before it was completed for publication; the project was not greenlit until Streep was cast in the lead role. Principal photography lasted 57 days, primarily taking place in New York City from October to December 2005. Additional filming was done in Paris, France.

After premiering at the LA Film Festival on June 22, 2006, The Devil Wears Prada was theatrically released in the United States on June 30. The film received positive reviews from critics, with Streep's performance receiving widespread critical acclaim, thus earning her numerous awards and nominations, including the Golden Globe Award for Best Actress – Motion Picture Comedy or Musical and nominations for the Academy Award for Best Actress and the Screen Actors Guild Award for Outstanding Performance by a Female Actor in a Leading Role. Hathaway and Blunt also drew favorable reviews and various nominations for their performances. The film grossed over $326 million worldwide, against its $41 million budget, and was the 12th highest-grossing film worldwide in 2006.

Although the film is set in the fashion world, and references well-known establishments and people within that industry, most designers and other fashion notables avoided appearing as themselves for fear of displeasing US Vogue editor Anna Wintour, who is widely believed to have been the inspiration for Priestly. Still, many allowed their clothes and accessories to be used in the film, making it one of the most expensively costumed films in history. Wintour later overcame her initial skepticism, saying she liked the film and Streep in particular.

Plot 
Andrea "Andy" Sachs is an aspiring journalist newly graduated from Northwestern University. Despite her ridicule of the fashion industry, she lands a job as junior personal assistant to Miranda Priestly, the editor-in-chief of Runway magazine, a job that "millions of girls would kill for." Andy plans to put up with Miranda's excessive demands and humiliating treatment for one year in the hopes of getting a job as a reporter or writer somewhere else.

Andy initially fumbles with her job and fits in poorly with her gossipy, fashion-forward co-workers, especially Miranda's senior assistant, Emily Charlton. After a dress trial meeting in which Miranda berates her in front of the entire team, Andy approaches art director Nigel to help her learn the ropes in the world of fashion. She begins to dress stylishly and makes an effort to accommodate all of Miranda's whims and fancies, which strains her relationship with her boyfriend Nate, who is frustrated that she is always at Miranda's beck and call.

Noticing Andy's changed appearance and commitment, Miranda begins to give her more responsibility and complicated tasks to handle. Slowly but surely, Andy becomes more glamorous and absorbs the Runway philosophy. Andy gradually outperforms Emily, who is consumed with the thought of attending Paris Fashion Week as Miranda's assistant and, in preparation for the event, attempts extreme diets that are dangerous to her health. When Emily is too unwell to remember important details about the guests at a charity benefit, Andy steps in to save Miranda from embarrassment and is rewarded by being asked to replace Emily as Miranda's assistant at the Paris Fashion Week. When Andy calls Emily to inform her, the latter is hit by a car. Andy relays the news to Emily while she is recovering in the hospital, and she is furious. Nate is angered that Andy has become what she once ridiculed, and they break up.

In Paris, Andy learns from Miranda about her impending divorce. Later that night, Nigel tells Andy that he has accepted a job as creative director with rising designer James Holt. Andy spends the night with an attractive writer, Christian Thompson, who tells her that Miranda is to be replaced by Jacqueline Follet as editor of Runway. Andy attempts to warn her, but Miranda sends her away.

At a luncheon later that day, Miranda announces Jacqueline as the new creative director to Holt, leaving Andy and Nigel stunned. Later, Miranda explains to Andy that she already knew of the plot to replace her and sacrificed Nigel to keep her own job. Andy is repulsed, but Miranda points out that Andy did the same to Emily by agreeing to go to Paris. When they arrive at their destination, Andy exits the car without a word and returns to New York.

Sometime later, Andy meets up with Nate, who tells her he has a new job as a sous-chef in Boston, and they agree to continue to see each other. The same day, Andy is interviewed and accepted to work at a major New York publication company. The editor recounts how he called Runway for a reference, and was informed by Miranda that, while Andy was the biggest disappointment she ever had as an assistant, he would be an idiot not to hire her. Andy then calls Emily and reconciles with her by offering her the clothes she obtained in Paris. While passing the Runway office building, Andy makes eye contact with Miranda and waves at her. Miranda does not acknowledge her, but smiles to herself once she is seated in her car.

Cast 
 Meryl Streep as Miranda Priestly
 Anne Hathaway as Andrea "Andy" Sachs
 Emily Blunt as Emily Charlton
 Stanley Tucci as Nigel Kipling
 Simon Baker as Christian Thompson
 Adrian Grenier as Nate Cooper
 Gisele Bündchen as Serena
 Tracie Thoms as Lily
 Rich Sommer as Doug
 Daniel Sunjata as James Holt
 James Naughton as Stephen
 Colleen Dengel as Caroline Priestly
 Suzanne Dengel as Cassidy Priestly
 David Marshall Grant as Richard Sachs
 Tibor Feldman as Irv Ravitz
 Rebecca Mader as Jocelyn
 Alyssa Sutherland as Clacker
 Ines Rivero as Clacker at elevator
 Stéphanie Szostak as Jacqueline Follet
 David Callegati as Massimo
 Paul Keany as St. Regis Doorman

Cameos 
 Valentino Garavani
 Giancarlo Giammetti
 Carlos de Souza
 Bridget Hall
 Lauren Weisberger as the twins' nanny
 Robert Verdi as a fashion journalist in Paris who interviews Miranda
 Heidi Klum
 Jen Taylor as Lou
 Nigel Barker

Production 

Director David Frankel and producer Wendy Finerman had originally read The Devil Wears Prada in book proposal form. It would be Frankel's second theatrical feature, and his first in over a decade. He, cinematographer Florian Ballhaus, and costume designer Patricia Field, drew heavily on their experience in making Sex and the City.

Frankel recalls the whole experience as having high stakes for those involved, since for himself and the others behind the camera it was the biggest project they had yet attempted, with barely adequate resources. "We knew we were on very thin ice," he told Variety for a 2016 article on the film's 10th anniversary. "It was possible this could be the end of the road for us."

Weisberger is widely believed to have based Miranda on Anna Wintour, the powerful editor of Vogue, for whom she herself had once worked as a personal assistant. Fear of what Wintour might do in retribution for any visible cooperation with the production posed obstacles, not just in the fashion industry but also in Hollywood.

Pre-production 
Fox bought the rights to Weisberger's novel before it was not only published in 2003, but even finished. Carla Hacken, then the studio's executive vice president, had only seen the first hundred pages of manuscript and an outline for how the rest of the plot was to go. But for her that was enough. "I thought Miranda Priestly was one of the greatest villains ever," she recalled in 2016. "I remember we aggressively went in and scooped it up."

Writing 
Work on a screenplay started promptly, before Weisberger had even finished her work. When it became a bestseller upon publication, elements of the plot were incorporated into the screenplay in progress. Most took their inspiration from the 2001 Ben Stiller film Zoolander and primarily satirized the fashion industry. But it was still not ready to film. Elizabeth Gabler, later head of production at Fox, noted that the finished novel did not have a complete narrative. "Since there wasn't a strong third act in the book," she said later, "we needed to invent that."

In the meantime, the studio and producer Wendy Finerman sought a director. Out of many candidates with experience in comedy, David Frankel was hired despite his limited experience, having only made one fea