# Pet Sematary (1989 film)

Pet Sematary is a 1989 American supernatural horror film and the first adaptation of Stephen King's 1983 novel of the same name. Directed by Mary Lambert and written by King, it stars Dale Midkiff, Denise Crosby, Blaze Berdahl, Fred Gwynne, and Miko Hughes as Gage Creed. The title is a sensational spelling of "pet cemetery".

The film was released on April 21, 1989, and grossed $89.5 million at the box office on a budget of $11.5 million. A sequel, Pet Sematary Two, was released in 1992 and a second film adaptation was released in 2019.

Plot

The Creed family—Louis, Rachel, their children Ellie and Gage, and their pet cat Church—move from Chicago to rural Ludlow, Maine, after Louis accepts a job as a physician nearby. They befriend neighbor Jud Crandall, who takes them to an isolated pet cemetery (misspelled "sematary") in the forest behind the Creeds' new home.

Louis encounters Victor Pascow, a jogger who is mortally injured after being hit by a truck. He warns Louis about the pet sematary before dying, calling Louis by name though they have never met. That night, Pascow's ghost leads Louis to the cemetery and warns him not to cross the barrier. Louis awakens from the supposed dream but notices his feet are covered in dirt.

During Thanksgiving, while the family is gone, Church is run down. Realizing Ellie will be devastated, Jud takes Louis beyond the pet cemetery and deep into the woods, to an ancient Miꞌkmaq burial ground. Jud instructs Louis to bury the cat and warns him not to tell anyone about what they have done. The next day a reanimated Church returns to the house. He now stinks, moves sluggishly, his eyes glow gold and he is vicious toward Louis. Jud explains that as a boy he revived his pet dog and that although the cat might be different, it will save Ellie the grief of losing her pet.

Sometime later, Gage is killed by a truck along the same highway. Jud anticipates that Louis is considering burying his son in the Miꞌkmaq ground, although Louis denies it. Jud believes that introducing Louis to the ritual ground aroused the malevolent forces present there, which caused Gage's death. He tells him the story of a local named Bill Baterman who buried his young son Timmy in the Miꞌkmaq ground after he was killed near the end of World War II. Timmy returned as a malevolent zombie, terrifying the townsfolk. A group of men including Jud tried destroying Timmy by lighting the Baterman house on fire, only for Bill to perish with his son. Jud insists that the burial ground is evil and Louis must not bury his son there, adding that "sometimes, dead is better".

After the funeral, Rachel and Ellie leave for Chicago while Louis stays behind, ostensibly to take care of loose ends. Despite Pascow and Jud's warnings, Louis exhumes his son's body and buries him at the ritual site. In Chicago, Pascow appears to Ellie in a dream and warns her that Louis is about to do something terrible. Rachel is unnerved by her daughter's dream but can only reach Jud when she calls, who tells her Louis is not home. She decides to return to Maine, much to Jud's alarm.

That night, a reanimated Gage returns home and steals a scalpel from his father's bag. He taunts Jud before slashing his achilles tendon and his mouth, before biting his throat off, killing him. Rachel returns home and is lured into Jud's house by the voice and specter of her dead sister Zelda, only to discover that she is actually seeing Gage, holding a scalpel. In shock and disbelief, Rachel reaches down to hug her son and he kills her.

Waking up from his sleep, Louis notices Gage's muddy footprints in the house and discovers his scalpel is missing. Receiving a phone call from Gage that he has "played" with Jud and Mommy, he fills three syringes with morphine and heads to Jud's house. Encountering Church, he kills the cat with an injection before entering the house. Finding Jud's body under his bed Gage taunts him further and Louis is startled by Rachel's body hanging from the attic before Gage attacks him.

After a brief battle, Louis overpowers Gage and injects him with the morphine syringe. He then lights Jud's house on fire, leaving it to burn as he carries Rachel's body to the burial ground. Pascow appears and warns Louis not to "make it worse", but Louis, grief-stricken to the point of insanity, believes that he waited too long when he buried Gage, but burying Rachel "will work this time" because she had died just hours ago.

That night, Rachel returns to Louis and the couple embrace. Rachel takes a large knife from the counter, and the screen cuts to black before Louis screams.

Cast
 Dale Midkiff as Louis Creed
 Fred Gwynne as Jud Crandall
 Denise Crosby as Rachel Goldman-Creed
 Miko Hughes as Gage Creed
 Blaze Berdahl as Ellen "Ellie" Creed
 Brad Greenquist as Victor Pascow
 Michael Lombard as Irwin Goldman
 Susan Blommaert as Missy Dandridge
 Kavi Raz as Steve Masterton
 Mary Louise Wilson as Dory Goldman
 Andrew Hubatsek as Zelda Goldman
 Stephen King as Minister
 Chuck Courtney as Bill Baterman

Production

Development
The film rights were sold to George A. Romero in 1984 for $10,000. King had previously declined several other offers for a film adaptation.  Romero eventually had to pull out of the production, as he was busy with Monkey Shines. Development executive Lindsay Doran loved the finished script and advocated for it to be made at Embassy Pictures and then at Paramount Pictures, after she became vice president of production there in 1985. She was told each time that there was no more demand for Stephen King films after the slew of adaptations from his novels released in the early 80's.

It was only during the 1988 Writers Guild of America strike that Paramount reconsidered because the studio was facing a possible shortage of new productions for 1989 release. Stephen King's script for Pet Sematary was finished and ready to go, so Doran was given the greenlight to obtain the rights for Paramount and start production. King, who had final say on the choice of a director, met with the studio's first choice of Mary Lambert. She impressed him with her enthusiasm for his novels and her commitment to stay faithful to his source material, which secured her the job.

The original cut of the film delivered to Paramount's executives was judged to be too long, so excess footage had to be removed. The original ending scene was more ambiguous: it showed only the undead Rachel entering the kitchen where Louis is playing solitaire, leaving his fate uncertain. Although Lambert called this the "more spooky, sad... tragic" ending, because the audience knows "it's not going to be what he wants. She's not coming back as his wife", the studio decided it was too tame and at their request it was re-shot to be more graphic. Rachel's appearance was made far more gruesome with special prosthetic effects, and she kills Louis at the end as suggested by his screams when the film cuts to black.

Casting
Initially, Paramount executives wanted a pair of twins to play the role of Gage, like those chosen to play Ellie, which was the more cost-effective option. However, Lambert was very impressed with two-year-old Miko Hughes, who she felt was a natural talent despite his young age, so she lobbied the studio to accept her choice. She also faced resistance from executives over her choice to cast Fred Gwynne, whom the studio believed audiences would not take seriously because of his fame as Herman Munster. After first auditioning girls for the role of Zelda, Lambert changed course and ended up casting Andrew Hubatsek in the role, because she felt having a grown man playing the role of a teenage girl deformed by spinal meningitis made the character more frightening.

Filming
As stipulated by King when selling the rights, Pet Sematary was shot in Maine where the story was set and King himself wrote the screenplay. Production was based in Ellsworth and auditions held at The Grand theater, where several hundred locals auditioned to be extras or for small spoken roles. King himself was very involved in the filming process, consulting with Lambert frequently on her ideas for the story and any deviations from the script she wished to make.

The house used for the Creeds' home is a private residence near Hancock, while Jud's house across the street was actually a facade constructed around an existing house that was insulated with fireproof material so that the mock-up could be burned around it. The interiors of the Creed house were recreated on a soundstage in Ellsworth, while the interiors of Jud's house were built inside the Bangor Arsenal. The approach to the Miꞌkmaq burial ground was filmed at an abandoned granite quarry on Mount Desert Island in Acadia National Park, while a hilltop near Sedgwick was the site of the Miꞌkmaq ground itself. Other locations included a forest near Ellsworth for the pet cemetery, Mount Hope Cemetery in Bangor for the graveyard scenes, and Ellsworth Town Hall, which stood in f