# DNA supercoil

DNA supercoiling refers to the amount of twist in a particular DNA strand, which determines the amount of strain on it. A given strand may be "positively supercoiled" or "negatively supercoiled" (more or less tightly wound). The amount of a strand’s supercoiling affects a number of biological processes, such as compacting DNA and regulating access to the genetic code (which strongly affects DNA metabolism and possibly gene expression). Certain enzymes, such as topoisomerases, change the amount of DNA supercoiling to facilitate functions such as DNA replication and transcription.  The amount of supercoiling in a given strand is described by a mathematical formula that compares it to a reference state known as "relaxed B-form" DNA.

Overview

In a "relaxed" double-helical segment of B-DNA, the two strands twist around the helical axis once every 10.4–10.5 base pairs of sequence. Adding or subtracting twists, as some enzymes do, imposes strain. If a DNA segment under twist strain is closed into a circle by joining its two ends, and then allowed to move freely, it takes on different shape, such as a figure-eight. This shape is referred to as a supercoil. (The noun form "supercoil" is often used when describing DNA topology.)

The DNA of most organisms is usually negatively supercoiled. It becomes temporarily  positively supercoiled when it is being replicated or transcribed. These processes are inhibited (regulated) if it is not promptly relaxed. The simplest shape of a supercoil is a figure eight; a circular DNA strand assumes this shape to accommodate more or few helical twists. The two lobes of the figure eight will appear rotated either clockwise or counterclockwise with respect to one another, depending on whether the helix is over- or underwound. For each additional helical twist being accommodated, the lobes will show one more rotation about their axis.

Lobal contortions of a circular DNA, such as the rotation of the figure-eight lobes above, are referred to as writhe. The above example illustrates that twist and writhe are interconvertible.  Supercoiling can be represented mathematically by the sum of twist and writhe. The twist is the number of helical turns in the DNA and the writhe is the number of times the double helix crosses over on itself (these are the supercoils). Extra helical twists are positive and lead to positive supercoiling, while subtractive twisting causes negative supercoiling. Many topoisomerase enzymes sense supercoiling and either generate or dissipate it as they change DNA topology.

In part because chromosomes may be very large, segments in the middle may act as if their ends are anchored. As a result, they may be unable to distribute excess twist to the rest of the chromosome or to absorb twist to recover from underwinding—the segments may become supercoiled, in other words. In response to supercoiling, they will assume an amount of writhe, just as if their ends were joined.

Supercoiled DNA forms two structures; a plectoneme or a toroid, or a combination of both. A negatively supercoiled DNA molecule will produce either a one-start left-handed helix, the toroid, or a two-start right-handed helix with terminal loops, the plectoneme. Plectonemes are typically more common in nature, and this is the shape most bacterial plasmids will take. For larger molecules it is common for hybrid structures to form – a loop on a toroid can extend into a plectoneme. If all the loops on a toroid extend then it becomes a branch point in the plectonemic structure. DNA supercoiling is important for DNA packaging within all cells, and seems to also play a role in gene expression.

Intercalation-induced supercoiling of DNA 
Based on the properties of intercalating molecules, i.e. fluorescing upon binding to DNA and unwinding of DNA base-pairs, in 2016, a single-molecule technique has been introduced to directly visualize individual plectonemes along supercoiled DNA which would further allow to study the interactions of DNA processing proteins with supercoiled DNA. In that study, Sytox Orange (an intercalating dye) was used to induce supercoiling on surface tethered DNA molecules.

Using this assay, it was found that the DNA sequence encodes for the position of plectonemic supercoils. Furthermore, DNA supercoils were found to be enriched at the transcription start sites in prokaryotes.

Functions

Genome packaging

DNA supercoiling is important for DNA packaging within all cells.  Because the length of DNA can be thousands of times that of a cell, packaging this genetic material into the cell or nucleus (in eukaryotes) is a difficult feat.  Supercoiling of DNA reduces the space and allows for DNA to be packaged. In prokaryotes, plectonemic supercoils are predominant, because of the circular chromosome and relatively small amount of genetic material.  In eukaryotes, DNA supercoiling exists on many levels of both plectonemic and solenoidal supercoils, with the solenoidal supercoiling proving most effective in compacting the DNA.  Solenoidal supercoiling is achieved with histones to form a 10 nm fiber.  This fiber is further coiled into a 30 nm fiber, and further coiled upon itself numerous times more.

DNA packaging is greatly increased during mitosis when duplicated sister DNAs are segregated into daughter cells.  It has been shown that condensin, a large protein complex that plays a central role in mitotic chromosome assembly, induces positive supercoils in an ATP hydrolysis-dependent manner in vitro. Supercoiling could also play an important role during interphase in the formation and maintenance of topologically associating domains (TADs).

Supercoiling is also required for DNA/RNA synthesis.  Because DNA must be unwound for DNA/RNA polymerase action, supercoils will result.  The region ahead of the polymerase complex will be unwound; this stress is compensated with positive supercoils ahead of the complex.  Behind the complex, DNA is rewound and there will be compensatory negative supercoils. Topoisomerases such as DNA gyrase (Type II Topoisomerase) play a role in relieving some of the stress during DNA/RNA synthesis.

Gene expression 
Specialized proteins can unzip small segments of the DNA molecule when it is replicated or transcribed into RNA. But work published in 2015 illustrates how DNA opens on its own.

Simply twisting DNA can expose internal bases to the outside, without the aid of any proteins. Also, transcription itself contorts DNA in living human cells, tightening some parts of the coil and loosening it in others. That stress triggers changes in shape, most notably opening up the helix to be read. Unfortunately, these interactions are very difficult to study because biological molecules morph shapes so easily. In 2008 it was noted that transcription twists DNA, leaving a trail of undercoiled (or negatively supercoiled) DNA in its wake. Moreover, they discovered that the DNA sequence itself affects how the molecule responds to supercoiling. 

For example, the researchers identified a specific sequence of DNA that regulates transcription speed; as the amount of supercoil rises and falls, it slows or speeds the pace at which molecular machinery reads DNA. It is hypothesized that these structural changes might trigger stress elsewhere along its length, which in turn might provide trigger points for replication or gene expression. This implies that it is a very dynamic process in which both DNA and proteins  each influences how the other acts and reacts.

Gene Expression during cold shock 
Almost half of the genes of the bacterium E. coli that are repressed during cold shock are similarly repressed when Gyrase is blocked by the antibiotic Novobiocin. Moreover, during cold shocks, the density of nucleoids increases, and the protein gyrase and the nucleoid become colocalized (which is consistent with a reduction in DNA relaxation). This is evidence that the reduction of negative supercoiling of the DNA is one of the main mechanisms responsible for the blocking of transcription of half of the genes that conduct the cold shock transcriptional response program of bacteria. Based on this, a stochastic model of this process has been proposed. This model is illustrated in the figure, where reactions 1 represent transcription and its locking due to supercoiling. Meanwhile, reactions 2 to 4 model, respectively, translation, and RNA and protein degradation.

Mathematical description

In nature, circular DNA is always isolated as a higher-order helix-upon-a-helix, known as a superhelix.  In discussions of this subject, the Watson–Crick twist is referred to as a "secondary" winding, and the superhelices as a "tertiary" winding.  The sketch at right indicates a "relaxed", or "open circular" Watson–Crick double-helix, and, next to it, a right-handed superhelix.  The "relaxed" structure on the left is not found unless the chromosome is nicked; the superhelix is the form usually found in nature.

For purposes of mathematical co