# List of Inuyasha characters

The characters of the Inuyasha manga series were created by Rumiko Takahashi. Most of the series takes place in a fictional version of Japan's Warring States period with occasional time-travel/flashback elements to modern Tokyo or the Heisei period. The setting and plot incorporate many elements of traditional Japanese folklore and religion. Its main characters (both protagonists and antagonists) include a Shintō priestess, a Buddhist monk and several types of , usually rendered as "demon" in English-language translations of the series. The anime adaptation of Inuyasha is followed by a sequel titled Yashahime: Princess Half-Demon where its characters are also listed here.

Inuyasha main characters

Inuyasha

 was born of a dog-demon father and a human mother. He is an arrogant, prideful and stubborn half-demon, but has a soft side to him. He also has an older half brother, Sesshomaru, who is a full-demon with a full-demon mother. He has the appearance of a fifteen-year-old boy. As a half-demon, he had a difficult and lonely childhood, as demons and humans despised him for his mixed bloodline.

Kagome Higurashi

 is a brave and kind girl, the reincarnation of the Sengoku period priestess Kikyo, who believes in never turning her back on someone in trouble. Although physically weak, she is not lacking in courage. She becomes highly skilled in archery as the series progresses, and eventually learns to master her immensely strong spiritual powers. Of all characters in the series, she has the most emotional strength, never allowing anger or jealousy to commit acts of evil. By the start of Yashahime she is spiritually as strong as Kikyo, and possibly stronger given that she developed her own powers of arrow disappearance. Despite her inexperience, Naraku greatly fears Kagome's purifying powers, causing him to target her even more often than Inuyasha.

Miroku

 is an eighteen-year-old lecherous and intelligent Buddhist monk who travels the countryside performing spiritual services, such as exorcisms and demon exterminations, though he has a habit of either ripping off or outright robbing wealthy clients. Miroku can attack enemies with his khakkhara and sutra scrolls. But Miroku's greatest weapon is the , a blackhole embedded in his right palm which is actually a hereditary curse originally inflicted upon his paternal grandfather by Naraku. Due to the curse's nature to eventually kill him, Miroku sought to find himself a wife to sire children before eventually falling in love with Sango. In the sequel series, after starting a family with Sango after his curse was lifted, Miroku left his family to train himself to fight demons without his Wind Tunnel.

Sango

 is a sixteen-year-old . She hails from a village that practices the act as their profession and is also the original home of the Shikon Jewel; she is described by her father as the most skilled exterminator in the village. While travelling, she wears a traditional woman's kimono, over which she wears long skirt, most likely "mo-bakama", and traditional woman's arm guards and leg guards, and straw sandals. As a demon slayer, Sango dresses in a black skin-tight jumpsuit, and pink armor plates made of demon parts, and a red sash. Of her broad repertoire of tools and tricks for fighting demons, Sango usually wields her most powerful weapon called the , a human-sized boomerang made of purified demon bones, which she can throw using her enhanced strength.

Shippo

 is a young orphaned kitsune, who attempts to steal the Shikon Jewel from Inuyasha and Kagome, wanting to become stronger and avenge his father's death. Though his plan fails, Inuyasha and Kagome aid him after hearing his story, and he becomes their companion. Deeply loyal to Kagome, he often calls Inuyasha out on his bad behavior toward her. He is frequently clobbered by Inuyasha for playing tricks on him, and for blurting out uncomfortable or embarrassing facts. Despite this, he views the entire group as his surrogate family.

Kirara

 is Sango's faithful companion who usually appears to be a small kitten-sized feline with two tails, but can become large enough to carry several passengers across the air whenever the need arises. She is a spiritual entity and traveled with Midoriko in the past. In the sequel series, Kirara becomes Hisui's companion while occasionally aiding Setsuna.

Yashahime main characters

Towa Higurashi

 is fourteen-years-old. She is Sesshōmaru and Rin's eldest daughter and Setsuna's twin sister making her a half-demon. When she was four-years-old, she was transported to the modern era through the power of the Sacred Tree of Ages. She was raised by Sōta Higurashi, her half-uncle-in-law. Ten years later, she is reunited with Setsuna. Towa wields the sword  and carries the Silver Rainbow Pearl inside her left eye. When her sword is broken, she is capable of unleashing her demonic power to form her demonic energy into the remaining blade. Later she learns to absorb the demonic energy of enemies to empower herself and becomes capable of unleashing her father's  personal attack. Afterwards, it was upgraded into her own variation of her  attack. While they joined forces with Osamu Kirin to stop the Grim Comet, Towa used the Zanseiken's Kyūyōkon to absorb the comet's demon energy to make her new technique for the Azure Dragon Wave: the .

Setsuna

 is Towa's younger twin sister and youngest daughter of Sesshōmaru and Rin, the former placing the Gold Rainbow Pearl in her right eye after she was born. She was separated from Towa when they were four-years-old during a forest fire Zero arranged, Jaken erasing her memories with a Dream Butterfly before she is placed in the care of Shiori and later Kaede before being taken under Kohaku's wing as a demon slayer. She is reunited with Towa and gradually regains pieces of her memory before being fully restored once the Dream Butterfly's hold is broken.

While under the Dream Butterfly's influence, Setsuna is unable to sleep while unaffected by the disadvantages of being a half-demon save enter a berserker rage when she lets her demonic blood take hold of her. Sestuna also uses the naginata , which is used a seal to keep her demonic blood in check, using it in her signature attacks  and , and briefly . After Kanemitsu no Tomoe is shattered and later reforged by Totosai into Yukari no Tachikiri with the ability to see and sever the invisible threads of fate along with accessing the most personal memories of those that the threads are connected to. At the base of Mount Musubi, since the barrier is down and as they start heading back to Kaede's village with Rion, the Dream Butterfly have been cut by her father Sesshomaru with the Tenseiga, as she will go to sleep as well, but it is unknown what the sleeping technique will effect on her without the Dream Butterfly. Sestuna later developed a third attack called . It is revealed later on that she has feelings for Hisui.

Moroha

 is fourteen-years-old and the only daughter of Inuyasha and Kagome Higurashi, making her three-quarters human and quarter-demon. Sent away by her parents as an infant for her safety, Moroha was raised by Koga's clan before her mentor sold her to Jyūbei. Moroha since became a bounty hunter known as , selling parts of demons she is hired to slay to Jyūbei as payment to settle debt and earn her freedom. Aside from being capable of using her father's claw attacks and exorcising demons with a bow and arrow like her mother, she wields the  sword . She also carries a shell-shaped makeup compact similar to the one owned by Izayoi, which she stored the Red Rainbow Pearl in while it was in her possession, holding Tōga's rouge that she applies to her lips to become  with full access to her demonic heritage for the duration of one minute. But she later is able to maintain her form for longer durations after her second battle with Kirinmaru. After finding her parents, who she presumed dead, she placed the second Black Pearl in the rouge since the Red Rainbow Pearl and other Rainbow Pearls have been become Zero's tears again, and she was given a special longbow they had made for her. Using it greatly boosts her sacred arrows spiritual power and effectiveness. After retrieving a strong ice sword from an ice demon, with aid from her long-lost father Inuyasha, Moroha's debt is finally paid.

Recurring Inuyasha characters

Inuyasha supporting characters

Kikyo

 was a powerful, high-ranking priestess who lived fifty years prior to the events of the series. Kikyo was given the task by demon slayers to guard and purify the Shikon Jewel. She fell in love with Inuyasha, who considered using the Shikon Jewel to turn him completely human so it would fade and she could live with him as a normal human. Unfortunately, she was used by Naraku to trick both Kikyo and Inuyasha by disguising as them, and kills Kikyo. She later gets resurrected by the ogress, Urasue, whom robs her grave and forced her to return to life.

In the events