# Pixie (X-Men)

Pixie (Megan Gwynn) is a superheroine appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. Pixie belongs to the subspecies of humans called mutants, who are born with superhuman abilities, and to the species of humanoid magical beings named fairies, who are born with supernatural powers. Her hybrid mutation grants her pixie-like eyes, colorful wings that allow her to fly, and "pixie dust" that causes hallucinations.

After a confrontation with the revived former member of the New Mutants, Magik, she gains the ability to use magic and a magical weapon called the "Souldagger." Her main use of magic is a massive teleportation spell, which makes her a key asset to various X-Men missions and teams and places her as one of the titles' primary magic users. She was first introduced as a student on the Paragons training squad at the Xavier Institute in New X-Men: Academy X #5 (November 2004), later joining the New X-Men team, and then graduating to the Uncanny X-Men team.

Pixie has been described as one of Marvel's most notable and powerful female heroes. Since her original introduction in comics, the character has been featured in various other Marvel-licensed products, including video games, animated television series, and merchandise.

Publication history

2010s 
Pixie debuted in New X-Men: Academy X #5 (November 2004), created by Nunzio DeFilippis, Christina Weir, and Michael Ryan. She appeared in the 2008 X-Men: Pixies and Demons one-shot, her first solo comic book one-shot. She appeared in the 2010 X-Men: Pixie Strikes Back series, her first solo comic book series. She appeared in the 2010 Avengers vs. X-Men anthology series. She appeared in the 2019 Age of X-Man: Nextgen series.

2020s 
Pixie appeared in the 2020 Cable series. She appeared in the 2021 Children of the Atom series. She appeared in the 2022 Legion of X series.

Fictional character biography
Megan Gwynn is a Welsh teenager from a fictional mining town called Abergylid. Her father died in the mine. She developed a fear of it and left Wales owing of his death. She would later discover that he was not her actual father, but the villainous Mastermind. Lady Mastermind and Mastermind II are her half-sisters. In her original inception, Gwynn had short pink hair, pure black eyes and butterfly-like rainbow wings.

After enrolling at Xavier Institute, Gwynn is assigned to be part of the Paragons training squad under the tutelage of former New Mutant member Rahne Sinclair. She wears a bicycle helmet during training sessions, due to her uncertainty with flying. During this time, she develops a crush on the X-Man Cyclops and is considered a cheerful girl who fits in well with other students. Gwynn was voted Friendliest Student.

M-Day
Following the events of House of M, almost all of the Institute's students are depowered, which leads to the dissolution of the school's training squad system. Gwynn is one of only twenty-seven students, including her fellow Paragons Trance, Wolf Cub, and Match, not to have lost her mutant abilities.

She participates in Emma Frost's battle royal, which determines who will train to be an X-Man, but does not make the team. She remains at the school, appearing occasionally as a side character. Later, forty-two of Gwynn's former classmates are killed when their bus is blown up by a missile sent by William Stryker, an anti-mutant crusader. Among the confirmed deaths are Gwynn's fellow Paragon, DJ.

Quest For Magik
Gwynn, alongside Anole, Loa, Wolf Cub, Rockslide, and Match, are told a frightening ghost story by fellow student Blindfold one night at the school. However, they discover that the story is not fictitious, but rather a prophecy. Telling Gwynn that she is "sorry for [her] loss," Blindfold and her classmates are sucked into the realm of Limbo, where they are immediately attacked by a mob of demons.

Gwynn stays by Blindfold's side during the fight, who cautions Gwynn and the others that Gwynn must not "fall to darkness." Gwynn uses her powers on-panel for the first time during the fight, incapacitating several demons with her "pixie dust." After Darkchilde saves the small group, she asks N'astirh to bring Gwynn to her, recognizing that her soul is the most innocent and therefore the most powerful in Limbo. Despite her friends' pleas, Gwynn submits to Magik's request to use her soul to create a Soulsword and Bloodstones, magical stones forged from an innocent soul that grant great power to their owners, but is freed from the process by Anole. His intervention saves her, but leaves the spell unfinished, resulting in the creation of only one Bloodstone and a "Souldagger" instead. Magik then explains that the Souldagger is actually a portion of Gwynn's own soul and that black magic has now filled the hole left behind in the knife's creation, leaving Gwynn no longer an innocent. This is represented graphically by a great portion of her pink hair changing to black.

Magik teaches Gwynn a teleportation spell and she uses it to teleport herself and her friends to Belasco to prevent him from torturing the rest of the students. She saves the students and ultimately kills Belasco by stabbing him with the Souldagger. After defeating Belasco, Magik wants to use more of Gwynn's soul to create more Bloodstones to gain more power, but becomes disgusted with herself when her brother calls out to her. She instead sends Gwynn and the others back to the Xavier Institute and seals all entrances to Limbo. Gwynn and Anole are then made official members of the New X-Men for their bravery in Limbo at the insistence of Rockslide. Gwynn later reveals that Doctor Strange will tutor her in magic when she comes of age and begins receiving additional training.

Messiah Complex
When the first new mutant since M-Day appears, Gwynn joins X-23, Hellion, Anole, Surge, Armor, and Rockslide in attacking the Washington, D.C., base of the ant-mutant Purifiers by teleporting them there. They are confronted by Lady Deathstrike and the Reavers with Hellion receiving a near mortal injury. Outnumbered Gwynn panics and cannot teleport the team out until Rictor, who infiltrated the Purifiers as a spy, helps her concentrate. She manages to cast a hazardous "blind teleport," which scatters the New X-Men between Washington, D.C., and the Xavier Institute. The students are then recovered and taken back to the Institute by Iceman, and the wounded sent to the infirmary. However, Predator X later attacks the Institute, going after the weaker, wounded students in the infirmary. Gwynn, realizing that X-23 had killed this type of creature before, attempts to teleport Predator X to X-23's location. However, she mistakenly takes the majority of the students and Beast alongside her and the creature, dropping them in the middle of the X-Men's fight for the mutant baby with the Marauders on Muir Island. During the fight, Gwynn is brutally beaten by the Malice-possessed Omega Sentinel, who taunts her, until Gwynn manages to defeat her by unexpectedly stabbing her with the Souldagger, exorcising Malice from Omega Sentinel's body.

Pixies and Demons
Gwynn returns to her hometown after the X-Men disband following the conclusion of Messiah Complex. However, she finds the demonic N'Garai are plaguing the town and are kidnapping people to feed Kierrok the Damned, their leader. She calls in the X-Men to help defeat the N'Garai, and Gwynn has to face her fear of the mine in which her father was killed in order to defeat the demons. After defeating Kierrok, Cyclops and the rest of the X-Men take her back to America and she joins the newly reformed X-Men in San Francisco.

Manifest Destiny
After leaving one of Dazzler's gigs, Gwynn is ambushed by a group of masked anti-mutant men calling themselves the Hellfire Cult. She is overpowered by the attackers and is subjected to beatings that leave her incapacitated. She manages to make her way back to the X-Men's new base and is immediately taken care of by Wolverine, Nightcrawler, Karma, and Beast. The attack and the events of the previous year cause her to question whether or not she wants to continue as part of the X-Men, but a discussion with Wolverine causes her to stay and assist them against Empath, whose powers have grown out of control. After beating him up, she stabs him in the head with her Souldagger, leaving him blind and his powers weakened. She decides to remain with the X-Men, assisting them in various other missions, including the Skrull invasion of San Francisco. According to writer Matt Fraction, her role is that of Kitty Pryde and Jubilee when they first joined the X-Men. Her strong magical ability as a teleporter with nearly unlimited distance and capacity also causes Nightcrawler, who is much more limited and traditionally serves as the X-Men's primary teleporter, to question his future usefulness to the team, though he later comes to terms with his own abilities.

X-Infernus

Despite her cheerful persona, Gwynn begins to reveal her anger and