[Evolution and Ethics — Huxley — Gutenberg #38775]

the price of a full-grown slave--thirty silver pieces, a sum equal to about twenty dollars of our money. He promised to find them an opportunity of arresting Jesus quietly, at a time when there would be no fear of inciting a riot among the people. Acting upon instructions from Jesus, Peter and John, two of the Apostles, secured a room in Jerusalem, and prepared for a celebration of the Passover. All was made ready, and Jesus and His twelve Apostles met for "The Last Supper." During the meal Jesus taught His disciples a touching lesson in humility; laying aside His upper robe, He washed and wiped their feet. Then He told them that one of their number was to betray Him, saying to Judas, _"That thou doest, do quickly."_ Judas rose and went away hastily, but none but Jesus knew his errand. Jesus then instituted the Holy Communion, which we observe in our churches, and then conversed with His beloved "Eleven," cheering their sinking spirits by promises of unspeakable sweetness. When the hour of parting came, a hymn was sung, and the little company broke up for the last time. Through the city gate, across the Kidron bridge, into the olive garden called Gethsemane, they went, leaving eight of the disciples near the entrance. Jesus and the remaining three entered the quiet shadows of the olive trees, to pray. Worn and weary, the three fell asleep. Three times Jesus awakened them, the last time saying, _"Rise up, let us go! lo! he that betrayeth Me is at hand."_ [Illustration: "THE THREE FELL ASLEEP."] As He spoke, torches flamed over the quiet garden, and the forms of armed men showed indistinctly in their light. Their guide was Judas of Kerioth. Stepping to the side of Jesus, he kissed Him, and said, _"Hail, Master!"_ the agreed way of designating Jesus to the soldiery. Not many words were spoken. Jesus surrendered at once, only stipulating that no harm should come to His Apostles, who, beside themselves with fear, forsook Him and fled. Bound, and a prisoner, Jesus was led back into the city, and to the palace probably occupied by Caiaphas, the high-priest and Annas his father-in-law and president of the Sanhedrim, or great Jewish council. First, He was taken to Annas, and from him to Caiaphas, but not before He had been subjected to much insulting treatment. False witnesses had been summoned, only to have their evidence fall to the ground, and the only hope that Caiaphas had was to secure from Jesus Himself some admission that could be construed into blasphemy. In reply to the high-priest's question, Jesus replied that He was the Christ, the Son of God. Turning to the council, Caiaphas exclaimed, _"Ye have heard the blasphemy! What think ye?"_ and the reply was, _"He is guilty of death."_ Although thus condemned by the Sanhedrim, the sentence could not be carried out unless confirmed by Pontius Pilate, the Roman Procurator of Judea, who was on his way to Jerusalem, a part of his duties being to maintain order there during great festivals. Before Pilate could be seen, Jesus was left to the brutal violence of the Roman soldiers. Once before Pilate, who was unwillingly obliged to investigate the matter, Jesus was charged with _"stirring up the people,"_ and with calling Himself the _"King of the Jews."_ Pilate was infirm of purpose, as well as unprincipled. Convinced that Jesus was the victim of ill will and jealousy, he told the priests and rabbis that He was innocent. Then he caught at a chance of escaping responsibility. The prisoner was called Jesus of Nazareth; Nazareth was in Galilee; and Herod Antipas, the tetrarch of Galilee, was at that moment in Jerusalem. The two rulers were not on good terms, but Pilate sent Jesus to Herod for judgment. Herod questioned Jesus, but received no answer. Angered at His silence, Herod first mocked Him, and then sent Him back to Pilate, dressed in a gorgeous robe. Pilate then resorted to a stratagem. Every Passover a prisoner was set free, and Pilate bade the crowd choose between Jesus and Barabbas, a robber who had committed murder in an insurrection and was then lying in prison, feeling sure that they would choose Jesus. But the priests and rabbis exerted their power to the utmost. They stirred the people to a frenzy, and then with threats and bribes urged them to demand the rebel instead of Jesus, whom, but a few days before, they had acclaimed as the Messiah. To the dismay of Pilate, the crowd shouted their decision, _"Away with this Man! And release unto us Barabbas."_ In angry helplessness, Pilate called for water, and publicly washed his hands, crying out, _"I am innocent of the blood of this just person! See ye to it."_ Instantly the frenzied people yelled in reply, _"His blood be on us and on our children!"_ Pilate then asked what he should do to Jesus, and as one great voice the answer came, _"Crucify Him!"_ The cowardly Pilate had one last hope. Possibly the cruel multitude might be touched if they saw Jesus punished by the scourge--a whip into which pieces of lead and bone had been plaited. Jesus bore the agony meekly. Then over His bruised and bleeding body a cast-off cloak was flung; a rude crown of sharp thorns was placed upon His head; and in His right hand a reed, as a mock scepter, was placed; while in heartless derision the mob sneeringly hailed Him as King of the Jews. With unwearying patience Jesus submitted to their taunts and jeers. [Illustration: "JESUS SUBMITTED TO THEIR TAUNTS AND JEERS."] Now exposed where all could see Him, the chief priests led, and the crowd again took up the cry, _"Crucify Him, Crucify Him!"_ Cowed by the words, _"If thou let this man go, thou art not Cæsar's friend;"_ feeling that he could not spare one accused of treason against the Roman emperor, Pilate yielded to the voice of the people. Hastily Jesus was stripped of his robes, and hurried towards the city gate, while with Him, also under guard, went two criminals who were to be crucified at the same time and place. Sinking under the burden of the cross upon which He was to be nailed, Jesus fell to the ground before reaching the place of execution. The soldiers of the guard transferred the cross to a man whom they met just then, and Jesus stumbled on to die. Behind Him walked sobbing women, whose tears were all the sympathy He had. [Illustration: THE PLACE OF EXECUTION.] The hill was climbed; a few rapid preparations made; and Jesus was crucified like a common criminal. At the moment when the spirit left His body, an earthquake shook the earth, chasms opened in the rocks, and tombs were thrown open by the convulsion. The Veil-of-Partition in the Temple was rent from top to bottom. Joseph of Arimathea obtained permission to remove the body of Jesus from the cross. He was a rich man, and the owner of a garden near by, in which a tomb had been hewn from a rock. Reverently the body was lowered, bathed, wrapped in perfumed linen, and laid in the rocky recess. Then a great stone was used to close the entrance to the tomb. No more could be done that day, and the little company of mourners dispersed. Their faithful footsteps died away, the night winds swept past, and the Passover moon shone full upon the spot. [Illustration: "LAID IN THE ROCKY RECESS."] Jesus lay dead, but His enemies were not at ease. A guard was ordered, and for better security a cord was drawn across the stone and sealed with clay at both ends, upon which the Roman seal was placed. [Illustration: "THEIR FAITHFUL FOOTSTEPS DIED AWAY."] The night seemed long to eyes weary with weeping and waiting for the first signs of dawn. Hardly had the eastern sky began to redden, when three women set out, laden with spices, for the garden where Jesus lay. They were Mary of Magdala, Mary the sister of Jesus' mother, and Salome, the mother of John the Evangelist. Hurrying along in the dusk of morning, they wondered on whom they might depend to roll away the stone at the mouth of the tomb, for of the guards and the seals they knew nothing. Nearing the tomb, to their unspeakable astonishment they found it open and empty, and the sentinels prostrate with terror, for they had seen an angel descend from heaven, and roll away the stone. Mary of Magdala stayed for a moment to be sure that the body of Jesus was no longer there, and then sped to the city to tell Peter and John what had happened. Quickly the two Apostles set out for the spot where Jesus' body had been laid to rest. Meanwhile, the other women remained, lost in perplexity, at the entrance to the tomb. Suddenly an angel appeared, who told them that Jesus had risen, and that they should see Him. Bewildered with surprise and joy, the startled women ran to tell what they had seen and heard to the Apostles, but their news was received with incredulity, and treated as idle tales. [Illustration: "SUDDENLY AN ANGEL APPEARED."] Mary of Magdala followed Peter and John to the garden. John outran Peter and was the first to look into the empty tomb. Peter, as soon as he arrived, entered the tomb, and noted its orderly condition. The wrappings were laid carefully aside, and the linen that had bound Jesus' head was smoothly folded, and laid apart from the wrappings. Vague as were Peter's ideas of the resurrection of Jesus, he believed that He had indeed risen as He had promised the Apostles. John stooped and entered the tomb, and he, too, was convinced. Both knew that the First Easter Day had dawned upon the world. He who had conquered death, gladdened the eyes of those who loved Him five times before the close of that Easter Day. Mary of Magdala was the first to see Him. She heard a voice, and, thinking it must be that of the gardener, she asked piteously where the body of Jesus had been laid. No answer came, but soon she heard her name pronounced, _"Mary!"_ [Illustration: "SHE HEARD HER NAME--'MARY!'"] Turning hastily, Mary saw Jesus, and no words can describe her rapturous joy. Jesus then told her to hasten to tell the Apostles that she had seen Him, and she obeyed. Meanwhile, the other women, who had returned to the garden by another path, met Jesus, and their loving hearts were set at rest. [Illustration: ON THE WAY TO EMMAUS.] On the road from Jerusalem to Emmaus, a village some eight miles from the city,