# Reborn!

Reborn!, known in Japan as  and also as Hitman Reborn! for disambiguation purposes, is a Japanese manga series written and illustrated by Akira Amano. It was serialized in Shueisha's Weekly Shōnen Jump from May 2004 to November 2012, with its chapters collected into 42 tankōbon volumes. The series follows Tsunayoshi Sawada, a young boy who discovers that he is next in line to become boss of the Vongola family, a powerful Mafia organization. The Vongolas' most powerful hitman, a gun-toting infant named Reborn, is sent to teach Tsuna how to be a boss. 

An anime television series adaptation by Artland was broadcast on TV Tokyo from October 2006 to September 2010, and ran for 203 episodes. A number of video games, light novels, and other products were also created based on the series. In North America, Viz Media licensed the manga and the streaming rights for the television series for English release. Viz Media only published the first sixteen volumes, with the last one being released in July 2010. Discotek Media later licensed the home video rights for the television series for subbed-only release.

Reborn! is one of the best-selling manga series of Weekly Shōnen Jump, with over 30 million tankōbon copies in circulation. Reviewers praised its humor, storylines, fights and character designs, noting that the series grew more violent after volume eight, becoming a more typical shōnen series.

Plot 

A boy, Tsunayoshi "Tsuna" Sawada, is chosen to become the tenth boss of the Vongola Family, as he is the great-great-great grandson of the first Vongola boss—who moved to Japan from Italy. Timoteo, the Vongola IX—the current head of the family—, sends Reborn, an infant hitman from Italy, to train the reluctant Tsuna. Reborn's chief teaching method is the , which causes a person to be "reborn" with a stronger self to execute his dying wish. The clumsy, underachieving Tsuna becomes stronger, more confident and willing, making him a suitable Vongola family boss despite his continued reluctance. He makes several friends, including his love interest Kyoko Sasagawa.

Tsuna gets out of many scrapes on his way to becoming the Vongola boss, fighting escaped Mafia convicts posing as Kokuyo Junior High School students. The Varia, the Vongola assassin squad, want their boss, Xanxus, to be the Vongola boss and initiate a competition with Tsuna. To defeat the Varia, Reborn recruits Tsuna's schoolmates as Vongola guardians: Hayato Gokudera, an explosives expert who wants to be Tsuna's right-hand man; Takeshi Yamamoto, an athlete who likes baseball and cluelessly thinks of the Mafia as a game; Ryohei Sasagawa, captain of the school boxing club and Kyoko's older brother, and head prefect Kyoya Hibari. Lambo, a weak infant hitman who wants to kill Reborn; and Chrome Dokuro, a girl with links to the criminal Mukuro Rokudo, also join them.

After defeating the Varia, Tsuna and his friends are transported to the future to face the Millefiore family, who are killing the Vongolas. They discover that the Arcobaleno, the seven strongest infants, are dead except for Lal Mirch. When Tsuna and the Vongola guardians fight the Millefiore, they learn that Shoichi Irie, a comrade of Tsuna's future self, sent them to the future because the future Tsuna said they were the only ones able to defeat Millefiore leader Byakuran. Byakuran, who has obtained knowledge from parallel worlds, wants to obtain all the Mafia rings to become omniscient.

Tsuna and his group defeat Byakuran and return to the present, where they learn that he is to be installed as Vongola X. The ceremony is disrupted by the Simon Family, who have sworn revenge on the Vongola founding father for allegedly betraying the first Simon boss. Tsuna confronts the Simon Family on a secluded island; the Vindice, a group of former Arcobaleno who protect the laws of the mafia, are involved in the fight and imprison the losers. After several battles it is learned that Demon Spade, the first generation Vongola Mist Guardian, was manipulating Simon, using the conflict to control Mukuro Rokudo and remake the Vongola in his image. The combined strength of Tsuna and Simon's leader, Enma Kozato, defeats him.

After Tsuna reconciles with Simon, Reborn and the other Arcobaleno compete among themselves to remove their curse. Each Arcobaleno chooses a representative to fight for them and the winner will be able to undo the curse. The Vindice enter the competition, informing Reborn and Tsuna that the tournament is a front for the selection of a new Arcobaleno; the previous Arcobaleno die or become Vindice. Tsuna joins the remaining teams to defeat Bermuda, a former Arcobaleno, and the Vindice. On the final day of the Representative Battle of the Rainbow, Tsuna defeats Bermuda and his team. Checker Face, who inflicted the Arcobaleno Curse of the Rainbow, reveals his true identity as Kawahira, administrator of the humankind's ultimate power, Tri-ni-set. Finding another way to keep the Tri-ni-set safe, Kawahira agrees to entrust it to future generations and remove the curse.

After the Arcobaleno battle, Tsuna refuses to become the tenth head of the Vongola Family and Reborn leaves. A week after his departure, Tsuna realizes that he is still his no-good self; nothing has changed. Reborn returns to train Tsuna as Neo-Vongola Primo, similar to Vongola Decimo; Tsuna remembers that he now has friends he can rely on and has been changed by his experiences, thanks to his tutor and partner Reborn.

Publication 

Akira Amano published Reborn!s prototypes in seinen magazines until a one-shot was published on November 17, 2003, in Shueisha's shōnen manga magazine Weekly Shōnen Jump. The manga was serialized in the same magazine from May 24, 2004, to November 12, 2012. Its chapters were collected and published in forty-two tankōbon volumes by Shueisha, released from October 4, 2004, to March 4, 2013.

The series was licensed in North America and the United Kingdom by Viz Media, who published the manga under the Shonen Jump Advanced imprint. The first volume was published October 3, 2006, and Viz' last volume—the sixteenth—was published July 6, 2010. Reborn! is licensed in Brazil by Panini Comics, in France by Glénat, in Germany by Tokyopop, in Singapore by Chuang Yi, in Spain by Planeta DeAgostini and in Taiwan by Tong Li Publishing.

A spin-off manga, titled , created by Toshinori Takayama was serialized in Shueisha's Saikyō Jump from December 2010 to November 2012. Its chapters were collected in three volumes, released from June 4 to December 4, 2012.

Related media

Anime 

The series was adapted into a 203-episode anime television series, produced by Artland and directed by Kenichi Imaizumi, which aired from October 7, 2006, to September 25, 2010 on TV Tokyo. Because the anime series was not licensed for distribution outside Japan, Funimation exercised power of attorney on behalf of the Japanese production company to remove fansubbed episodes of the anime from the Internet. To prevent copyright infringement, cease and desist notices were sent to fansub groups who were subtitling the series. On March 21, 2009, Crunchyroll began streaming subtitled episodes of the series in North America, with new episodes available within an hour after they were aired in Japan. In 2011, Viz Media licensed an uncut, subtitled version for streaming on Hulu and VizAnime.com. In Japan the complete series was released into DVD volumes by Marvelous Entertainment between January 26, 2007, and April 29, 2011. Five DVD box sets were released between June 17, 2009,and March 21, 2012, by Marvelous Entertainment in Japan. On July 18, 2018, Discotek Media announced that they had licensed the anime series for home video release with two 2-disc SD on BD sets, the first 101 episodes on September 25, 2018, and then the other 102 episodes on October 30, 2018.

An original video animation was produced under the same staff and cast and was released in October 2009 during the annual Jump Super Anime Tour. It was released by Pony Canyon on DVD on July 21, 2010, under the title . The DVD version included a short version showed on the tour and a complete edition with new scenes.

Music 
Reborn!s music was composed by Toshihiko Sahashi, with each theme released as a single, album or character song. Four Reborn! soundtracks have been released by Pony Canyon in Japan; the first was released on December 20, 2006, and the second was released on April 18, 2007. The third and the fourth were released on August 20, 2008, and September 15, 2010, respectively. Most of the series' Japanese voice actors have recorded songs for the Katekyo Hitman Reborn! Character Soshutsuen Album Vongola Family Sotojo - Shinukidekatare! Soshiteutae!, and Pony Canyon released a three-volume Opening and Ending Theme Songs.

Video games 
Twenty-one video games are based on the series, and its characters appear in Jump Super Stars, Jump Ultimate Stars, and J-Stars Victory VS. The first game release was Katekyo H