# German humour

German humour is the conventions of comedy and its cultural meaning within the country of Germany. German humour encompasses traditions such as Kabarett and other forms of satire as well as more recent trends such as TV shows and stand-up comedy.

Germans distinguish between "Comedy" (using the English word) and "Komödie" (the German word of the same origin). "Comedy" refers to post-1990s TV-comedy, which is characterized by comedic entertainment in the form of stand-up comedy, stage shows, modern satire, cabaret and adaptations of foreign comedy concepts, including airing of foreign shows. "Komödie" refers to films and plays.

Culture 

German humour often follows many conventions which, due to similarities in cultural perception of events and day-to-day life (and other such universal themes which may be discussed through comedy), may be readily interpreted by natives of other countries.

Some German humorists such as Loriot used seriousness as a source of humour. Another notable example of mock-serious humour with satirical content is Jakob Maria Mierscheid MdB, a spoof politician, and his eponymous Mierscheid Law. He started the spoof as a hoax to falsify restaurant bills, but he has had enough pop culture recognition since the 1970s to gain his own (tongue-in-cheek) entry on the official Bundestag website. Similarly, the Stone louse (Petrophaga lorioti), a fictitious animal which was a part of a comic mockumentary video sketch, gained acknowledgement as a fictitious entry in the medical encyclopedic dictionary Pschyrembel Klinisches Wörterbuch.

However, current events, situations, traditions, and cultural factors which are unique to the country make it hard to understand the joke for someone who is not aware of the events being referred to. This applies especially to the widespread local dialects and customs in Germany. In other cases the humour derives from mixing different styles of speech or contrasting them with each other. For instance, the comedian Helge Schneider is renowned for his absurdist and anarchical humour, yet due to the deep roots of his humour in the German language and its several stylistic levels, much of his material is lost when translated into English.

Language 

German-language humour is, for linguistic reasons, constructed differently from English-language humour (e.g., British humour and American humour).

Nevertheless, in German there is a series of jokes based on multiple meanings of a word, for which English uses several different words. An example (from East German political humour) would be: 

However, German wordplay can also be based on compound words. German phonology often allows puns that are due to coda devoicing: for example, Leitkultur is pronounced exactly the same as Leidkultur (literally, culture of affliction). German grammar allows speakers to create new compound nouns and verbs with ease, and then split them, which requires a complete reordering of the sentence. Compounds often have a meaning that differs from the simple amalgamation of their components. These grammatical means exploited by German wordplay have no straightforward English equivalents. An example of grammatical means exploited by English wordplay relying upon phonology that becomes unintelligible in German is "Time flies like an arrow. Fruit flies like a peach." Here, the source of untranslatability is the multiple meanings in English of "fly" as both a verb and a noun and "like" : "to feel attraction for" versus "similar to".

In German nouns are always written with a capital letter, so there are also jokes about  this.

Examples:
 Der Gefangene floh – The prisoner escaped
 Der gefangene Floh – The captured flea
 Die Spinnen! – The Spiders
 Die spinnen! – They're crazy
 Er hatte liebe Genossen - He had dear comrades
 Er hatte Liebe genossen - He had enjoyed love
 In the GDR there were lots of jokes on the word play with Genossen / genossen

Non-German speakers may find it hard to understand German humour, simply due to the language barrier, as some jokes, puns and humorous turns of phrase are lost in translation.

, a German Kabarettist and writer, said: "Germans are unable to speak the German language". Commonly or apparently incorrect usage of German grammar is another form of humour ironically called Stilblüten (bloomers).

Types of humour

Schadenfreude 
The word Schadenfreude can be translated as glee or spitefulness, but most often it doesn't serve a malicious purpose. A more fitting translation is "the fun of seeing others struggling". Often the protagonist of such jokes is thrown into a dilemma, where he or she has to ignore the German sense of suavity in order to get out of a specific situation.

In one sketch from well-known comedian Loriot, the protagonist tries to get rid of a banana skin. The whole scene utilizes no spoken words or dialogue.

Literature and television 

The oldest popular forms of German comedy were the Posse and the Schwank which could take the forms of stories, plays or improvisations. The German comedic play (Lustspiel) was refined and updated by playwright and critic Gotthold Ephraim Lessing who, in Briefe, die neueste Literatur betreffend (1759) described the early 18th century comedies as relying heavily on dressed-up characters, magic tricks and fights. His comedy Minna von Barnhelm (1767) and Heinrich von Kleist's The Broken Jug (1811) joined especially various translations and adaptations of plays by early Greeks, Racine, Shakespeare, Molière, Calderon and others to form the basis of later developments.

The German Classical and Romantic periods saw a lot of humorous polemical, parodistic and satirical exchange between writers such as Goethe, Schiller, Ludwig Tieck, the Schlegel brothers, as well as many critics and philosophers both in the literary journals and in their own publications. Probably the most renowned ironic texts and poems in that era were written by Heinrich Heine, who developed a very distinct tongue-in-cheek style of writing, embracing Romantic ideals while mocking at the same time, often even within one poem. Up until today Heine remains to be titled one of the most insightful and witty among German writers.

One of the most important figures in the beginning of filmed comedy in Germany was stage comedian Karl Valentin who produced short films from 1912 to 1941.

Common joke themes and forms 
 Jokes about other nationalities: Germans have their own set of stereotypes about other nations, as well as different regions in Germany. Scotsmen are portrayed as miserly, Swiss as physically slow, French as sophisticated lovers, Poles as notorious thieves, Dutch as slow/bad drivers on motorways (typically with a caravan attached to their car), and Chinese as employing caricatures of Confucian wisdom. An Austrian is usually merely an antagonist of a German character and may be presented as superior, inferior, or an unacknowledged equal.
Example: The United Nations initiated a poll with the request, "Please tell us your honest opinion about the lack of food in the rest of the world." The poll was a total failure. The Russians did not understand "Please". The Italians did not know the word "honest". The Chinese did not know what an "opinion" was. The Europeans did not know "lack", while the Africans did not know "food". Finally, the Americans didn't know anything about the "rest of the world".

In some respects, the jokes try to be fair, for instance: Which nationality was Ötzi the Iceman? He wasn't Italian, as he carried tools; he wasn't Austrian, since he had brains; he might have been Swiss, since he was overtaken by a glacier, but most probably he was a North German, because nobody else walks in sandals in the mountains.

 East Frisians (Ostfriesen) (East Frisians are a people living in East Frisia, the north-western corner of Germany): This national minority is portrayed as absurdly stupid or naive. Jokes are often in the form of question and answer, both given by the joke-teller.

Example: How many Frisians does it take to screw in a light bulb? Five! One to hold the bulb and four to turn the table he's standing on.

Example: What would you do in the event of the Great Flood? Go to East Frisia, because there everything happens fifty years later.

 Beamte: German state officials (Beamte). Within jokes, they are considered slow and lazy, doing a nearly useless job in the bureaucracy.

Example: Three in a room and one is working, what's that? – Two officials and a fan.

Example: Three boys argue about whose father is the fastest. The first one says: "My father is a racing driver, he is the fastest." The second one contradicts him: "No, my father is a Luftwaffe pilot, surely the fastest one." "That's nothing", says the third one. "My father is a Beamter, he is so fast that when work ends at 5 pm, he's already home at 1 pm."

Example: Visitor: "You have many flies in this office." - Beamter: "Yes, 247."

 Mantawitz (Manta joke): The male counterpart to the blonde is t