# Obalumo

The Obalúmo is a royal personage, a traditional monarch amongst the Igbomina clan of the Yorubas of West Africa. The earliest manifestation of his title dates back to the 12th century at the latest, making him a ruler of relative significance in the intricate chiefly hierarchy of the tribe.

Prince Oba'lumo
Ọbalúmọ̀ or  Ọba'lúmọ̀ , (a contraction of Ọba Olúmọ̀), is the titular name of the founding king of the ancient Ìsèdó-Olúmọ̀ city-state, an ancient monarchy of the Igbomina-Yoruba. Translations of the title Ọba’lúmọ̀ as “The King" (Oba), "the Lord of Knowledge” (Olumo), or “King of the Lords of Knowledge” or “King and Lord of Knowledge”, all meaning wise king, suggests that this monarch, who is reputed in oral history to have been a veteran hunter and warrior, was also a Babalawo (a diviner, healer and priest of the Ifá oracle). Ọba’lúmọ̀ was a prince of the ancient Ọ̀bà civilization in northeastern Yorubaland, and is one of the earliest founders of the ancient Yoruba kingdoms in southwestern Nigeria.

However, the reference to Ọba'lúmọ̀'s city state as  Ìsèdó-Olúmọ̀  (or Isedo of Olúmọ̀ ), and the existence of an Olúmọ̀ royal clan in Oba-Igbomina (which is in the Isin Local Government Area of Kwara State, Nigeria)—one of the extant towns named Oba—suggests a different meaning and origin of the name and title of the Ọba'lúmọ̀  n'Ìsèdó. It seems that Ọba'lúmọ̀ founded a city-state dominated by people from the Olúmọ̀ clan of their Oba origin, and he therefore adopted the title (or was titled by his new subjects)  Ọba'lúmọ̀ in his new kingdom - meaning "the king from the Olúmọ̀ clan". The other traditions of the name referring to the legendary knowledge of  herbal remedies and the Ifá oracle seems to be a heritage that is shared with the entire  Olúmọ̀  clan, and may not be peculiar to King Ọba'lúmọ̀.

Excerpt from the oral records of Ìsèdó-Olúmo
Some oral history accounts ascribe a personal name of Tìímọ̀ (pronounced Tì-í-mọ̀) to the first king of Isedo. Other oral history accounts suggest that Tìímọ̀ was simply the reigning Ọba'lúmọ̀ at the time of contact with the migrating group of one of the two factions departing from Ila Yara, whose leader founded Ila Orangun adjacent to Ìsẹ̀dó, the kingdom where Tìímọ̀ was reigning as the then Ọba'lúmọ̀.

Our father the Ọba'lúmọ̀ Tìímọ̀ led one of the major migrations from ancient Ọ̀bà, perhaps as a result of the periodic conflicts with his people's Nupe neighbours to the north. It is due to our being of his blood that we call ourselves the Omo Ọba’lúmọ̀ n’Ìsẹ̀dó ("children of King Oba'lumo"), Ọmọ ọrọ̀ l’Ọbà ("children of the people of Oba") and Omo'ba Olúnlákin ti Ile Oba ("children of the great king Olùnlàkin of Obà"). These are our oriki as his descendants.

Dating the Ìsẹ̀dó-Olúmọ̀ city-state 
Oral history analyzed in the light of recent archaeological research results (and published works of oral historians, anthropologists and archaeologists of the Arizona State University, USA, and the University of Ibadan, Nigeria, of the Igbomina-Yoruba region's ancient and later settlements suggest that the Ìsèdọ́ City-State commonly known as Ìsẹ̀dó-Olúmọ̀  (i.e. the Olúmọ̀’s Ìsẹ̀dó) was established between the 10th and the 12th centuries by Ọ̀bà emigres (led by the said Ọba'lúmọ̀), who fled the internal wranglings within their former kingdom and/or the ongoing conflicts with the neighbouring Nupe to the north of it (It was presumably the same problem of constant fighting with the Nupe that caused the ancient Òwu kingdom, perhaps a contemporary of Ọ̀bà, to relocate further south from their original city-state in this region to establish a new settlement named Orile-Òwu, south of Ile-Ifẹ).

Relationship with neighbouring city-states 
Records of ancient origin ascribe the role of land-grant authority to the Ọba'lúmọ̀, monarch of Ìsẹ̀dó. Some oral historians report that at the request of Oduduwa's fourth son, Fagbamila, nicknamed and later styled Ọ̀ràngún, the region's king Ọba'lúmọ̀ gave land-grants to the later arriving Ọ̀ràngún immigrants at a location sufficiently distant from Ìsẹ̀dó’s location. Another, seemingly more reliable version of the oral history, indicates that the land-grant occurred a few centuries later, when the faction of the younger of two quarreling princes arrived from the Ìlá Yàrà realm in the vicinity of the Ọba'lúmọ̀'s Ìsẹ̀dó kingdom. This younger prince, Arutu Oluokun, founded Ila-Magbon. This new monarchy was forced to move within a short time to establish another settlement at Ìlá-Ogbogbo (or Odò-Ìlá) (meaning Ìlá of the lowlands) which is the settlement that became the modern Ìlá Ọ̀ràngún.

An annual celebration called the Ìmárúgbó (or Òkùnrìn) festival was instituted between the two city-states during which the King Òràngún leaves his palace with his chiefs to pay a day-long homage to the King Ọba'lúmọ in the Ọba'lúmọ̀'s palace. This is partly in symbolic tribute to Ọba'lúmọ̀'s land-grant and his precedence over the Òràgún in the region, and partly in appreciation of Ọba'lúmọ̀'s hosting of the Ọ̀ràngún's elderly mother, who could not continue with the immigrant party to their allocated land. The Ọ̀ràngún's mother subsequently died in the palace of the Ọba'lúmọ̀, and was buried at Ìsẹ̀dó, so the Ọ̀ràngún also visits her grave there.

The older Ọ̀ràngún monarch's faction, departing the Ìlá Yàrà realm, established a new settlement called Igbohun. After a few other re-settlements, the modern Òkè-Ìlá Ọ̀ràngún was founded near the original Igbohun. The Ọbaálá clan of Òkè-Ìlá Ọ̀ràngún, according to their histories which refer to their origin from Ìsẹ̀dó, is actually a segment of the Ìsẹ̀dó royalty which emigrated several centuries ago at the invitation and inducement of the Orangun Apakiimo to join him to found his new kingdom at Igbohun. At Òkè-Ìlá Ọ̀ràngún (as the kingdom was subsequently known), the Ìsẹ̀dó immigrants retained their royal title of Ọba'lúmọ̀ as agreed with Orangun Apakiimo, perhaps maintaining their separateness for some time until they subsequently "federated" or consolidated with the Òkè-Ìlá Ọ̀ràngún kingdom. Within the consolidated Òkè-Ìlá Ọ̀ràngún kingdom hierarchy, the Ọba'lúmọ̀ or Ìsẹ̀dó clan won rights to the additional high title of Ọbaálá (meaning "mighty king" or "senior king") in addition to their royal title of Ọba'lúmọ̀ remaining recognized. This is a significant recognition of the Ọba'lúmọ̀ clan since the Ọbaálá title is next in rank to the Ọ̀ràngún of Òkè-Ìlá (the paramount king of the consolidated city-state), and the holder of the Ọbaálá title automatically becomes high regent on the demise of any reigning Ọ̀ràngún of Òkè-Ìlá, reigning until the next Ọ̀ràngún is installed.

Current Status of Ìsẹ̀dó and Ọba'lúmọ̀'s modern role 
The Ọba'lúmọ̀'s original Ìsẹ̀dó City-State  has been virtually engulfed by the modern Ìlá Ọ̀ràngún, but the clan has maintained the royal title of Ọba'lúmọ̀ in the traditional establishment. The modern Ọba'lúmọ̀ territory, which is now enclosed within Ìlá Òràngún, has about thirteen various sub-clans (or mega-family) compounds. The Ọba'lúmọ̀ clan at Ila, as with the branch of the clan in Òkè-Ìlá Ọ̀ràngún, has maintained traditions and festivals that go back about ten centuries to the founding of Ìsẹ̀dó, as well as to their original homeland at Ọ̀bà.

Oba'lumo in consolidated Òkè-Ìlá Ọ̀ràngún 
In the consolidated Òkè-Ìlá Ọ̀ràngún state, the Ọba'lúmọ̀ title was contemporaneously established coincident with the creation of the new Oke-Ila state resulting from the split in the Ila Yara kingdom at the end of the 15th century. Due to the local crises engendered by the series of wars among the Yoruba in the 19th century, the Ìsẹ̀dó clan did not fill the Ọba'lúmọ̀ title for more than a century (since the last one reigned at their refugee-settlement at Omi Osun), before the current Obalumo was installed on January 17, 2003, at Oke-Ila. The clan's oral historians summarily attribute the long interregnum to a shortfall in the clan's male population (possibly due to the frequent wars and slave raids which necessitated the temporary relocation of the consolidated Oke-Ila kingdom to the Omi Osun) and the consequent dearth of suitable candidates. The clan's oral historians further indicate that there was a shortage of the required retinue of palace servants that were to be dedicated to fulfil the numerous royal restrictions, ritual observances, ritual avoidances, ceremonies and royal ceremonials of the holder of the Ọba'lúmọ̀ title, such as his daily-fresh drinking water (which is traditionally to be gotten at dawn by young women in virtual-nudity wearing only heavy beads around their waists), the ceremonial etiquette for the preparation and serving of the Oba’lúmò’s meals (in absolute silence), and various other ceremonial routines and rituals of the Ìsẹ̀dó royalty.

Accounting for the Oba'lumo interregnum in Òkè-Ìlá Ọ̀ràngún 
However, there are other likely reasons for this long interregnum judging from oral historians accounts of