[The Physical Basis of Life — Huxley — Gutenberg #38262]

laughing. Pattie was truly Irish, but grand at his work nevertheless, whether retrieving a dead duck or a maimed one. When plunging into the water after the latter, "Be quiet wid yer skraiching," Pattie would seem to say. "Sure I'll fetch you out, and you'll never feel it at all, at all." But you ought to have seen Pattie coming up out of the river with a dead duck that he probably had had to swim a long distance against the tide for; there was a pride in his beaming eye that my pen would attempt in vain to depict. "What do ye think av me now?" Pattie would seem to say. But summer and autumn and the first months of winter wore away, and, after spending a whole fortnight at the white hare-shooting among the mountains of Perthshire--and harder work I defy you to find--Frank was at last declared thoroughly broken in, completely hardened off. "A man," said Chisholm, "that can stand a week or two among white hares, and not feel too tired to sleep at night, is fit for anything. Now, boys," he added, "what do you say to a run right away up to the polar ice-fields?" "I'm in," said Fred quietly. "Oh!" said Chisholm, "you're always in for anything. If I asked you to take a trip to the moon you'd jump at it." "Or over it," said Fred, smiling, "like the cow in the poem of `Hey, diddle diddle;' but are you in earnest about the ice-fields?" "Downright." "Well," said Frank, with assumed modesty, "if you think I'm `broke' enough, please I'd like to go too." "Bravo!" cried Chisholm O'Grahame, "that settles the question." They made arrangements to sail in a seal-and-whale ship in February. They got an introduction to a captain of one of these, and he gladly undertook to convey them to Greenland and back, "free, gratis, and for nothing, except the pleasure of their company, and the skins and blubber they would no doubt kill." That was how the captain expressed it. "But, mind you," he said, "you'll have to rough it a bit." "We don't mind that," said Chisholm. Before he left for the far distant north, Frank Willoughby spent some weeks at General Lyell's castle. Happy, happy weeks they were, and how quickly, too, they fled away! I could make you feel very sentimental and "gushive," reader, if I told you all that passed between the lovely young Eenie and our hero Frank, but I never tell tales out of school, so there. I may just say, however, that, when the last moment _did_ come, poor Eenie could hardly breathe the fond "good bye" for the tears that she could not repress. The General's adieu was a hearty one. "Good-bye," he said, "keep up a good heart, and," he added laughingly, as he patted Frank on the back, "remember-- "`None but the brave deserve the fair.'" CHAPTER FOUR. PART II--THE POLAR ICE-FIELDS. OUTWARD BOUND--NIGHT IN THE PACK--THE AURORA--THE AWFUL SILENCE OF THE ICE-FIELDS--SEALS! SEALS!--THE BATTLE WITH THE BLADDER-NOSES--JACK IN THE BOX WITH A VENGEANCE--A FIGHT WITH WALRUSES. The good ship _Grampus_ slipped away from her moorings on the 13th of February, 18--, and steamed slowly seaward from the port of Peterhead, North Britain, hound for the wild and desolate regions that surround the pole. She steamed slowly away in the very teeth of a breeze of winds that might have frightened a man of less daring and pluck than Captain Anderson, for the sea was grey and stormy, the sky was leaden and threatening, and the very sea-birds that screamed around the vessel's bows seemed to warn him that there was danger on the deep. But the Captain heeded them not. He had said he would sail on this day, and he did, for well he knew what his vessel could now do, and had done before; besides, he was a true sailor, and had all a sailor's impatience to begin the voyage. "It looks a bit squally," he said to the pilot as he bade him adieu, "and we may have a dirty day or two, but the _Grampus_ can stand it, and I'm not the man to linger in the harbour one half-hour after I'm ready to start. Good-bye, old man." The _Grampus_ was a steam brig of some three hundred and fifty tons, fitted with powerful engines, and a screw that could be hoisted up out of the water when sail was on her. Built of wood, she was as stout and strong a ship as ever clove the waves. And she needed all her strength too--there was a wide and stormy ocean to cross, and there was ice to plough through that no fragile ship dare ever face. The captain was the owner of the vessel; and many a voyage, and not unsuccessful ones either, had he made to the polar ice-fields, but the present one was fated to be the most eventful of all. From the very commencement of the cruise, until the first ice was sighted, the wind kept steadily ahead, and the seas kept washing over the brave brig from stem to stern. But she was not to be daunted, so steadily she steamed on northwards, ever northwards. A week after the last of the lonely isles of Shetland had sunk like a little cloud beneath the southern horizon they were far away at sea-- indeed, there was nothing to be seen from the masthead, only the great tumbling seas that dashed their sprays high over the funnel. Even the birds had left them, all save that strange mysterious creature that is ever seen wheeling around ships sailing over the broad Atlantic, or crossing the northern seas, and which naturalists call the stormy petrel, and mariners Mother Carey's chicken. No wonder sailors look upon this bird with something akin to superstition and awe, so dark and dusky is the creature, the very little white about it serving but to make its blackness visible; it flits from stormy wave to stormy wave like a veritable evil spirit. Our friend Frank, in his voyage to the polar ice-fields, suffered somewhat from _mal de mer_--it sounds far nicer in French than in English--but he bravely stuck to the deck. He was more than once washed into the lee scuppers, but he had on an oilskin suit of fear-nothing dimensions; so he just scrambled up again, or in other words, like the cork leg of the merchant of Rotterdam, he got up "and went on as before." The farther north the _Grampus_ got, the shorter grew the days. Indeed, they seemed to be sailing into the home of eternal night, only it must be remembered that the season was yet early, and that in the polar regions for three months of the year the sun never appears above the horizon. If the nights were long, however, it cannot be said they were dark; they were lighted up with a magnificence never seen in more southern latitudes. The sky itself was at times of a deep and indescribably dark-blue colour, and the stars were great wheels of sparkling light. This was in itself a beautiful sight, and our heroes used to linger on deck till far on in the night, as if under some pleasant spell. But what pen can describe the gorgeous splendour of the northern lights, or Aurora. Imagine if you can a vast and broad bow, or arc of a circle, stretched athwart the heavens, twenty times as broad as any rainbow, and seeming to be ever so much farther away; imagine this bow to be composed of spears or needles of light--green, blue, crimson, and yellow--and imagine these spears in constant motion, shooting upwards and downwards, changing places incessantly, changing colours constantly, and this too with inconceivable rapidity, and you will be able to form some faint notion of the wonderful sight the Aurora presented to the eyes of our astonished travellers. Reader, I have been alone in the ice-fields by night, while the Aurora was playing in the heavens above. You cannot conceive of the solitude and lonesomeness of such a situation, nor can you form any conception of the deep, the indescribable silence that reigns in the frozen ocean. Well, upwards as I gazed at the northern lights, I have heard sounds emanating from them. That I do not remember having ever read of anywhere. A line of spears would advance from the east and another from the west; they would meet and commingle with a subdued clashing and hissing noise, such as you might make by rubbing the palms of the hands rapidly together. What this strange sound can be is a mystery that may never be revealed. Captain Anderson told our heroes that he never thought the voyage had begun until the crow's-nest, or out-look barrel, was hoisted to the mainmast head. One morning our travellers were awakened by the sound of singing and shouting, and on going on deck they found the brave skipper rubbing his hands with glee, as he gazed up at the ascending nest. "Cheerily does it!" he was crying. "Heave, lads! heave, heave, and she goes. Now, young gentlemen," he continued, "are your rifles in order? In two days more, if all goes well, I'll show you such sport as you couldn't even have dreamt of before." And sure enough, in two days' time they had made "the country," as the ice-fields are termed. If, however, any one on board had expected to find wealth, in the shape of plump seals, lying thereon ready for the gathering, he was much mistaken. There was the ice, to be sure, but never a seal in sight, neither in the water nor out of it, for it seemed that the country was unusually open that year. "Well," said Anderson, one day, "I'm tired of this north Greenland work; I'll bear away for the west land." A week's steaming through fields of slushy ice and floating snow, and streams of flat snow-clad bergs, brought them into open water, and they sighted the lofty and desolate shores of Greenland West, and much to their surprise, found a large three-masted Dutchman quietly lying at anchor in a bay, sails all clewed up, and men away on the ice. It was not long ere the _Grampus_ had followed her example, so far as letting go the anchor went, and making all snug and ready for action. A great bear--always a sign seals are about--stood sniffing on the edge of a floe. Perhaps he had never seen a steamship before, or perhaps he was wondering what the crew were having for breakfast. Frank got his Henri-Martini up, and began potting at him with a long-range sight, and presently Master Bruin remembered an