Biology Research Paper

Title: Behavioural pharmacology: 40+ years of progress, with a focus on glutamate receptors and cognition

Abstract:
Behavioural pharmacology is an interdisciplinary field at the intersection of several research areas that ultimately lead to the development of drugs for clinical use and build understanding of how brain functions enable cognition and behaviour. In this article, the development of behavioural pharmacology in the UK is briefly surveyed, and the current status and success of the field is highlighted by the progress in our understanding of learning and memory that has resulted from discoveries in glutamate receptor pharmacology allied to theoretical and methodological advances in behavioural neuroscience. We describe the original breakthrough in terms of the role of NMDA receptors in hippocampal-mediated spatial learning and long-term potentiation, and review recent advances that demonstrate the involvement of glutamate receptor in working memory, recognition memory, stimulus–response learning and memory, and higher cognitive functions. We also discuss the unique functions of NMDA receptors and the fundamental role of AMPA receptors in processes that are common to some of these forms of memory, including encoding, consolidation and retrieval. Behavioural pharmacology is an interdisciplinary field at the intersection of several research areas that ultimately lead to the development of drugs for clinical use and build understanding of how brain functions enable cognition and behaviour. In this article, the development of behavioural pharmacology in the UK is briefly surveyed, and the current status and success of the field is highlighted by the progress in our understanding of learning and memory that has resulted from discoveries in glutamate receptor pharmacology allied to theoretical and methodological advances in behavioural neuroscience. We describe the original breakthrough in terms of the role of NMDA receptors in hippocampal-mediated spatial learning and long-term potentiation, and review recent advances that demonstrate the involvement of glutamate receptor in working memory, recognition memory, stimulus–response learning and memory, and higher cognitive functions. We also discuss the unique functions of NMDA receptors and the fundamental role of AMPA receptors in processes that are common to some of these forms of memory, including encoding, consolidation and retrieval. Behavioural pharmacology (or psychopharmacology) is at a practical interface between the discovery of a novel pharmacological agent that acts on the CNS and the assessment of its utility, whether clinically as a therapeutic agent or for analytical purposes in psychology and neuroscience. Consequently, it is important to use precise methods for assessing and interpreting the effects of drugs on behaviour in humans and experimental animals. Adequate preclinical screening of drugs by pharmaceutical companies is essential for selecting candidates for expensive Phase II and III clinical trials. Furthermore, appropriately measuring behaviour is vital to test speculative hypotheses about the consequences of neuronal plasticity based on the effects of drugs observed in cultured tissue slices or the consequences of genetic manipulations for a particular neurotransmitter receptor. Behavioural pharmacology must thus be an integral component of many neuroscience research programmes. In this article, we review briefly the origins of behavioural pharmacology in the UK and as a particular example of its success show how it has been instrumental in understanding more precisely the role of glutamate as a neurotransmitter in the processes of neuronal plasticity, with particular reference to learning and memory. Behavioural pharmacology has flourished in the UK and worldwide, although it has evolved in several directions from different intellectual precursors and disciplines. The field derives from influences in pharmacology, psychiatry, neuroscience, ethology and several different traditions in psychology, each driven by a set of goals unique to the discipline. One of the main origins of behavioural pharmacology in the UK is work carried out in the Department of Pharmacology at University College London in the 1950s and 1960s. During this time, Roger Russell, the then Head of Department, encouraged Hannah Steinberg, in collaboration with Ian Stolerman and the late R. ‘Channi’ Kumar, to base their research programme on the behavioural effects of mixtures of stimulants and barbiturates in addition to opiates in experimental animals. Another major, but different, approach came from the field of psychiatry, where figures such as Max Hamilton and Alex Coppen had an interest in the treatment and aetiology of depression and other forms of mental illness. Hamilton constructed influential clinical scales for assessing both depression and anxiety in humans that are used today in evaluating the therapeutic efficacy of novel pharmacological agents. Both of these influences differed markedly from the development of behavioural pharmacology in the USA, which arose from a fusion of classic pharmacology and Skinnerian ‘operant’ psychology, as exemplified by the Harvard Medical School laboratory founded by Peter Dews, Roger Kelleher and Bill Morse. Although Harvard Medical School exerted an enormous influence over the methods used in the UK, in the late 1960s and early 1970s the late Jeffrey Gray at Oxford University and Susan Iversen at Cambridge University introduced two novel approaches to enrich behavioural pharmacology, the former depending on animal learning theory [1Gray J.A. The Neuropsychology of Anxiety. Oxford University Press, 1982Google Scholar], and the latter depending on a fusion between neuropsychology, neurochemistry and traditional behavioural pharmacology [2Iversen S.D. Iversen L.L. Behavioural Pharmacology.2nd Edn. Oxford University Press, 1981Google Scholar]. Both approaches focused on the study of how drugs worked on defined neural systems, using powerful behavioural paradigms; these advances continue to influence the work of current researchers. Iversen's move to the Merck, Sharp and Dohme Neuroscience Centre at Terlings Park, Harlow, UK is just one example of how academic scientists moving to the pharmaceutical sector enabled the application of evolving psychopharmacological methodology to the evaluation of new compounds. A landmark international CIBA symposium, ‘Animal Behaviour and Drug Action,’ held in London in 1963 and published a year later [3Steinberg, H. et al., eds (1964) Animal Behaviour and Drug Addiction, J&A Churchill LtdGoogle Scholar], contained several contributions from British psychopharmacology that reflected some of these origins. Reviewing the various contributions now, it is notable how contemporary many of the themes discussed at the meeting remain today. There were several chapters on the influence of drugs on memory (Jarvik) and learning (Bures and Russell), in addition to other current foci of research interest such as pharmacological interactions with frontal lobe functioning (Weiskrantz), amphetamine and neural reward mechanisms (Stein), and pharmacogenetics (Broadhurst). Furthermore, an entire section of the meeting was devoted to the relevance of the behavioural effects of drugs in animals and humans, thus presaging the current emphasis on translational neuroscience. What has changed since then? Many of the fundamental conceptual questions have remained the same, although they have become much more refined as a result of major advances in theory and methodology in experimental psychology and major discoveries (e.g. new neurotransmitter systems and multiplicities of novel receptor mechanisms) in neuropharmacology. Although learning and memory were important topics in the CIBA symposium and behavioural pharmacologists had begun to work out how best to study these functions, a possible role for glutamate in learning and memory was largely unsuspected. However, Jeffrey Watkins and colleagues (Bristol, UK) were, at that time, investigating the possible role of glutamate as a neurotransmitter [4Curtis D.R. et al.Chemical excitation of spinal neurones.Nature. 1959; 183: 611-612Crossref PubMed Scopus (188) Google Scholar], which had been a controversial issue since Hayashi's initial observations [5Hayashi T. Effects of sodium glutamate on the nervous system.Keio J. Med. 1954; 3: 183-192Crossref Scopus (171) Google Scholar] that central infusions of glutamate produced convulsions in experimental animals. In a recent review, Watkins [6Watkins J.C. I-Glutamate as a central neurotransmitter: looking back.Biochem. Soc. Trans. 2000; 28: 297-309Crossref PubMed Google Scholar] charts the stages by which glutamate gradually passed the stringent criteria for being a neurotransmitter substance, including structural and stereochemical specificity for actions at defined receptors, presynaptic release during axonal activity, the presence of an inactivation mechanism and the effect of specific antagonists on the production of excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs) by glutamate and the excitatory potential of the presumed neurotransmitter. Arguably the most impressive of all indications suggesting that glutamate is a neurotransmitter, however, came from behavioural pharmacology studies that demonstrated an intimate association between glutamate receptors and neuronal plasticity and complex behavioural functions, including learning and memory. These studies are reviewed here. The anti-epileptic agent MK801 (dizocilpine), with a hitherto unknown mechanism of action, was first discovered to be a non-competitive antagonist at NMDA receptors by the UK Merck group at Terlings Park [7Wong E.H.F. et al.The anticonvulsant MK-801 is a potent N-methyl-d-aspartate antagonist.Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U. S. A. 1986; 83: 7104-7108Crossref PubMed Scopus (1679) Google Scholar] and was one of the many tools that became available from pharmaceutical companies in the 1980s for the study of the role of glutamate receptors in learning. This topic has thus been a prime example of the crucial and sustained contributions of academic and industrial behavioural pharmacologists and neuroscientists in the UK in what is now an increasingly collaborative, international enterprise. In the search for new drugs, this research field is now being linked to the modelling of hitherto pathologically elusive clinical disorders, including Alzheimer's disease and schizophrenia, in addition to less-obvious examples such as general anxiety disorder and drug addiction. A key breakthrough in understanding the neural basis of learning has been the realization that there are different types of memory subserved by different neural systems. Thus, there is a declarative form of long-term memory for episodes and facts that appears to be mediated mainly by structures of the medial temporal lobe. Other forms of memory, such as perceptuo-motor skills and some forms of Pavlovian and instrumental learning (including stimulus–response habits) (see Glossary) appear to devolve to several structures such as the motor cortex, dorsal and ventral striatum, and cerebellum [8Squire L.R. Memory and Brain. Oxford University Press, 1987Google Scholar]. By contrast, information that is used for only a short time and has to be kept ‘online’ for that purpose requires ‘working memory’ processes that implicate the prefrontal cortex, certain areas of the posterior cortex and the hippocampus [9Goldman-Rakic P.S. Circuitry of primate prefrontal cortex and regulation of behavior by representational of Scholar]. However, although these forms of memory different forms of information in different brain they be mediated by and Thus, it is increasingly that neuronal plasticity processes by such as long-term also long-term depression different forms of learning and memory. The of is complex and the of this but it is to on of the NMDA of glutamate receptors in as observed by the British working with and colleagues et Google A of long-term in the PubMed Scopus Google Scholar] However, the for behavioural pharmacology, discovered by and colleagues at was that of NMDA receptors also certain forms of at of the NMDA receptor antagonist to that Thus, and colleagues et of learning and of long-term by an receptor 1986; PubMed Scopus Google Scholar] that of a NMDA receptor spatial learning in a to on the of the but learning in the The was that this treatment have effects on the effects were on processes such as or motor This of effect on a on learning The of the study by and have been by many of learning of NMDA receptors, whether by pharmacological or genetic and colleagues et of by by PubMed Scopus Google Scholar] that NMDA receptor in the hippocampus the learning of between an or and an Although it was that there be a between NMDA receptors and spatial or learning that is on the other studies that the effects of NMDA receptor on learning were more general and both other neural structures and other behavioural in the of both and to in approach to were to on NMDA receptors the et of the receptor antagonist but of approach to an PubMed Scopus Google et of but of by NMDA antagonists in the PubMed Scopus Google Scholar]. A form of stimulus–response learning that is on the dorsal that are of has also been to on NMDA receptors of and memory systems by of PubMed Scopus Google Scholar], and and colleagues et of Pavlovian memory by and NMDA receptors in the Natl. Acad. Sci. U. S. A. PubMed Scopus Google Scholar] that the consolidation of approach behaviour to a of was on NMDA addition to receptors in the ventral Furthermore, and colleagues et involvement of and receptors in the in the and of Pavlovian approach Google Scholar] that NMDA receptor in the of the of approach AMPA receptor by This of learning and memory NMDA receptor has several what precise of learning and memory are what is the role of other glutamate receptors as the AMPA which by glutamate a to NMDA receptor and what therapeutic these it be to learning or memory by discoveries in behavioural pharmacology, enabled by the development of specific J.A. and glutamate receptor and PubMed Scopus Google Scholar], are to these The issue of which component of memory be the processes in initial encoding, later consolidation and and the of the memory These be using memory where the agent of interest be or just initial learning and its effects on memory by a several or more agent that is only for a is to consolidation initial of the The agent also be just to test possible effects on memory addition to where the produced by the drug acts as a Thus, the effects of of NMDA receptors and other of glutamate receptors on different stages of memory be In memory’ NMDA receptor and consolidation of the memory, but T. et contributions of NMDA and AMPA receptors to and of PubMed Scopus Google Scholar]. of these effects were in the that they with the to the with at of a with and of the PubMed Scopus Google Scholar]. A of has been for of et of long-term but by the antagonist PubMed Scopus Google Scholar]. This that NMDA receptors have a role in the processes by which are more in long-term memory. By contrast, of AMPA and receptors with a antagonist such as (see only but also consolidation and of spatial that AMPA receptors is more for all of these processes et neural inactivation in several memory PubMed Scopus Google Scholar]. This of the role of NMDA with AMPA receptors has been demonstrated for some other forms of memory mediated by the such as in the which are more linked to the forms of memory that are by with Alzheimer's In this were to with particular where they had in episodes (or of NMDA receptors the hippocampus but of the of AMPA receptors using and et and of PubMed Scopus Google Scholar]. studies using an test of memory consolidation based on also that NMDA receptors are in spatial encoding, but are also in of learning NMDA receptor antagonists memory for PubMed Scopus Google the involvement of NMDA and AMPA receptors has been demonstrated in of memory the to which is markedly in Alzheimer's There is now that recognition is more on a specific of the medial temporal the cortex, on the hippocampus et on recognition of and of the and cortex in Google functions of the Sci. 3: PubMed Scopus Google Scholar]. and receptors in cortex encoding, and consolidation of recognition PubMed Scopus Google Scholar] have on this by of infusions of NMDA and AMPA receptor antagonists the cortex in at stages of of a In this are to with and a novel that at a later time in with memory be by the of time the the and novel during a test carried out a short or a time the original of the first The that NMDA receptor but memory the initial This result that NMDA receptors the cortex are for the initial of the but are for the of plasticity for the long-term of its NMDA receptor of the initial also its that NMDA receptors are in memory consolidation By contrast, NMDA receptor the test had effects on recognition memory, AMPA receptor which the for spatial memory in the AMPA receptor also all stages of encoding, consolidation and Thus, it appears that there is in the glutamate mechanisms that memory only the of the but also common memory such as consolidation of NMDA and AMPA receptors in cognitive pharmacological or genetic is is is effects are mediated in specific brain main for and approach to a only at cognitive pharmacological or genetic is is is effects are mediated in specific brain main for approach to a only at cognitive in a new Another of the of glutamate receptor in memory is to with genetic Thus, from that the AMPA receptor A the role of in working memory functions, as in a where the have to which they in a et of spatial reference memory and spatial working memory in glutamate Google Scholar]. The of these was that these were in a spatial memory and NMDA receptor involvement in the suggesting that different neuronal mechanisms the hippocampus to different types of information One possible for these the of NMDA and AMPA receptors, is that the the of the entire of AMPA receptors such that NMDA plasticity be by a In NMDA receptors had been in spatial working memory functions in based on behavioural pharmacological of a with and of the PubMed Scopus Google J. The NMDA antagonist but the non-competitive antagonist a in spatial working memory in PubMed Scopus Google Scholar]. The in about the of the glutamate receptors in learning and memory and the regulation of the of how such information be used to new for memory and cognitive J.A. and glutamate receptor and PubMed Scopus Google Scholar]. The specific effects of NMDA receptor on the processes that to consolidation the of this by with However, this is by the of (e.g. and as a result of of glutamate for are by effects on long-term memory in by drugs that excitatory glutamate their actions as of the AMPA receptor Memory the search for PubMed Scopus Google Scholar]. interest has focused on that NMDA receptor in a more acts at the recognition of the NMDA receptor complex [6Watkins J.C. I-Glutamate as a central neurotransmitter: looking back.Biochem. Soc. Trans. 2000; 28: 297-309Crossref PubMed Google Scholar], has been to learning and memory in several animal including memory in a at the to receptors, recognition memory in Google Scholar] and learning and learning in both and et a of the of learning in PubMed Scopus Google et al.The effects of and MK-801 on the of in two spatial learning and memory Google Scholar]. effects have also been in clinical studies of et of to in with PubMed Scopus Google Scholar] and Alzheimer's disease et cognition in Alzheimer's disease with J. Google Scholar], although in some these have to et of with in PubMed Scopus Google Scholar]. this recent animal work has effects of in experimental animals on a of learning that is also on NMDA receptors and has for the treatment of other The recent discovery of of glutamate receptors, the has in the of These receptors Pharmacology and functions of glutamate PubMed Scopus Google the functions of presynaptic glutamate receptors in the central nervous Google neuronal the excitatory or functions of receptors such as AMPA and NMDA and are drug recent work has focused on their potential for cognitive in glutamate receptors for treatment of the cognitive of PubMed Scopus Google Scholar], and are being the of and et therapeutic for glutamate Med. PubMed Scopus Google Scholar]. the (e.g. or with learning a particular is or behaviour a of during which to early that a form of of the association must be However, recent have that a new learning during that has the effect of the although the memory of the association is et learning theory on the of PubMed Scopus Google Scholar]. but receptor antagonists have been for some time to of which that an to in the of the J. The NMDA receptor antagonist MK-801 and of in the J. Google et of by of an NMDA antagonist the Google Scholar]. This of also of et of by of an NMDA antagonist the Google Scholar]. However, the recent has been that in the whether or the et of by or infusions of as with in Google Scholar]. in this study that these effects be to actions on and that they were by an antagonist at the [6Watkins J.C. I-Glutamate as a central neurotransmitter: looking back.Biochem. Soc. Trans. 2000; 28: 297-309Crossref PubMed Google Scholar]. current behavioural for anxiety are based on the of a association between a and anxiety by a new association that the the pharmacological of this for the treatment of these A recent study has this by that produced a of of in with using a et as to use of in to of PubMed Scopus Google Scholar]. One of the with is that the effects in one to to and thus its effects be to be of therapeutic However, a recent study et of effects on and PubMed Scopus Google Scholar] has in that only to an but also the of a that that the Other forms of such as drug which in from also be with this pharmacological The of as a form of and its on prefrontal mechanisms and neural of PubMed Scopus Google Scholar], is with the that glutamate receptors are in forms of plasticity that are important for the cognitive functions of the prefrontal These cognitive functions, however, over short and the animal with the to to a One such is working memory, which requires the of information ‘online’ over short to behaviour [9Goldman-Rakic P.S. Circuitry of primate prefrontal cortex and regulation of behavior by representational of Scholar]. memory functions that are on the prefrontal cortex are by NMDA receptor antagonists such as non-competitive NMDA receptor in humans et a in but of the of working 28: PubMed Scopus Google Scholar]. A prefrontal is the of to different of to with frontal lobe or are to be at such in clinical such as the This of is also by in et effects of the NMDA in and PubMed Scopus Google Scholar]. it was that NMDA receptor the non-competitive antagonist MK801 the prefrontal the to animals to in to the were by the of the et receptors in the medial prefrontal cortex PubMed Scopus Google Scholar]. AMPA receptor the in a only but also which is of its effects on memory These that some of the of cognitive in such complex as schizophrenia, are also to NMDA receptor and be by glutamate receptor agents. such processes as be to such in behavioural or whether such effects on pharmacological at NMDA receptors, is However, such as these that a much more understanding of what is by the is the original of NMDA receptors in spatial the role of these receptors has to many other forms of learning and memory. Furthermore, have for unique glutamate receptor with understanding of more discovered on the These have potential therapeutic and it that the of between behavioural pharmacology and neuroscience some of these is by a Cambridge are to for in the in our laboratory is by a from the Medical and the a such as or that by being of an or such as or the memory by which memory (or are more to memory used to of or facts (e.g. or of a form of in which the animal is to approach one the (e.g. or with learning a particular or is or a form of learning in which a an or (e.g. to a reward or the of an both of these are the learning. This of learning with Pavlovian a form of Pavlovian in which is to an entire or a a test of spatial memory in which a specific is with (e.g. or in one a form of declarative memory in for a such as a the memory by which are from long-term and from a to an instrumental learning that is on the or and is with of a such as or that as to and is to Pavlovian several with a a cognitive test in which the to and on the basis of learning is is used clinically as a test of cognitive with frontal lobe or by with the original memory, but memory that the (or of during short of is with the ‘online’ of in the of a or the of memory.