# Winry Rockbell

is a fictional character from Hiromu Arakawa's Fullmetal Alchemist manga series and its adaptations. Winry is a teenage mechanic who often spends time with the central characters, brothers Edward and Alphonse Elric, who are childhood friends of hers. Specializing in mechanical repair, specifically prostheses called automail, Winry services Ed's replacement arm and leg. Originally meant to be introduced in the series' first chapters due to its lack of female characters, some of Winry's traits are based on Arakawa's own life. In the first anime adaptation, Fullmetal Alchemist, Winry is voiced by Megumi Toyoguchi in Japanese and by Caitlin Glass in the English version. In the second anime adaptation, Fullmetal Alchemist: Brotherhood, she is voiced by Megumi Takamoto in Japanese, with Glass reprising the role in English.

Besides being in the manga and anime series, Winry is also in the first anime's sequel film and original video animations (OVAs). Readers of the manga have ranked her among the top ten characters in the series. Periodicals and other media for manga and anime fans have praised her for her attitude, her relationship with the Elric brothers, and her development across the manga series.

Creation and conception
Hiromu Arakawa wanted to introduce Winry in Chapter 3 of the manga due to the lack of female characters in the first two chapters and because of her importance, but her editor told her it was too soon to do it. Arakawa was satisfied with her debut, considering Winry a "buffer" who helps the reader understand the Elric brothers' problems, since, although she finds it hard to talk to them, she is able to understand their feelings. Thus, Arakawa thinks Winry has the most difficult position of the three. Winry's occupation in the series was inspired by Arakawa's opinions about how people had to work hard in order to eat. Additionally, the way Winry and her grandmother Pinako welcome the Elrics into their home after the Elrics' mother's death reflected Arakawa's views on how people should react to social problems. When asked in 2006 who her favorite Fullmetal Alchemist characters are, Arakawa found it hard to decide, but at the time she picked Winry along with the Elrics and Riza Hawkeye. Arakawa has also stated that she enjoys drawing Winry immensely.

Megumi Toyoguchi voices Winry in the first Fullmetal Alchemist anime series, but Megumi Takamoto voices her in the second. In both English adaptations, Caitlin Glass wound up voicing Winry, even though she never thought to audition for the role. Glass tried out for Al, Rose, Lust, and Hawkeye; it was her audition for the character of Rose and her previous "hyper" voice in the Spiral series that won her the role, after reading only a single line of Winry's dialogue. Glass reprised her role in the second anime series.

Appearances

In the manga
Winry's first appearance in the manga is when the Elric brothers return to Resembool in order to ask Winry and Pinako to create another automail for Edward's right arm after it was destroyed by the criminal Scar. Winry is portrayed in the series as kind, optimistic, and sincere, acting as a concerned and compassionate family member to the Elrics in their company. She had known Edward and Alphonse since childhood. In the story, she was orphaned at a young age when her parents were killed while serving as doctors in the Ishvalan war. She lived with her grandmother in Resembool from then on. Known as an "Automail Otaku", she is fascinated by any and all types of machines, tools, and excels in building and repairing automail. Along with her grandmother, Pinako, also a famous automail  engineer, the two run a small shop out of their home. Winry is known to be an automail prodigy. They made and installed Edward's automail arm and leg after he lost his original limbs in a failed human transmutation of his mother. Winry takes it upon herself to make sure that his automail is in top form, and travels to service it when as needed. This dedication is either out of enthusiasm (due to these moments making up most of the moments she gets to be with Edward and Alphonse, as well as getting paid for each) or out of frustration (due to Edward constantly breaking his automail, which she is worried as to how Edward breaks the arm and what dangerous situations he is put in). In the first anime series, it is hinted that Winry and Edward share romantic feelings for each other, but this is never confirmed. In the manga and second anime series, Edward is unnaturally flustered by the mere thought of being romantically linked to Winry, while Winry eventually realizes that she loves Edward and has for most of her life. After three all-nighters, she forgets to add a screw to Edward's automail and so it breaks after one of his fights. Winry goes to Central City to fix Edward's automail, feeling guilty (as Edward is in the hospital as well), but quickly overcomes it when she realizes no one else has any idea about the screw. She then spends the night at the house of Maes Hughes.

While the Elrics continue their search for the Philosopher's Stone, they decide to go meet their old mentor, Izumi Curtis. Winry gets them to take her to Rush Valley, the automail capital of the world, along the way, much to their dismay. There she meets a pickpocket named Paninya. They become friends because Winry convinces her to try to earn her money honestly and helps her out and her interest in automail. Winry also meets the family of Dominic, an automail engineer, and when Dominic's daughter-in-law goes into labor, Winry successfully delivers her baby at the mere age of 15, saving the lives of both the mother and baby. She asks to be Dominic's apprentice, but is refused both because Dominic doesn't take apprentices and because he has an unexplained past with her grandmother, Pinako, and is terrified of her. He introduces her to another engineer named Garfiel, who happily takes her on. Some time later, Winry returns with the Elrics to Central Headquarters and finds that Hughes was murdered, leaving Winry grieving. When the Elrics confront the criminal Scar once again to get closer to the Philosopher's Stone, Winry goes there to try to help them, only to discover during the fight that Scar killed her parents during the Ishvalan War. Overcome by disbelief and grief, Winry points a gun at Scar, but Ed jumps in front of her and pins the gun down, allowing Scar to flee with Al in pursuit. Winry becomes distressed that she couldn't bring herself to shoot because of how he killed her innocent parents, but Ed reassures her that her hands aren't meant to kill, but are meant for saving lives. After Ed delivers her to the custody of others, despite her desire to have him stay, Winry spends the rest of the day with King Bradley. After Scar escapes, Winry is urged to return to Rush Valley by her loyal customers, and Ed promises her the next time he makes her cry they will be tears of joy. After this, she realizes she has been in love with him.

After the Elrics and Roy Mustang discover Bradley is a Homunculus, Winry and Riza Hawkeye respectively are used as hostages by the military to gain their obedience. Winry later discovers that the Elrics have traveled North, and she heads there as well since Ed's automail is not suited for those conditions, in which he could die; State Alchemist Solf J. Kimblee escorts her there to emphasize her "imprisonment" and gains her trust. After Winry replaces Ed's arm, he tells her he is being forced to capture Scar for the military, but doesn't tell the entire truth. Winry goes with him and Al, but once they capture him, Winry helps Scar by bandaging his heavy wounds sustained in a fight with Kimblee's chimeras, as she thinks her parents would have done the same and learns that to save someone doesn't mean you forgive them. In order to both evade the military so she can no longer be used against the Elrics and secure freedom for her allies, she has a brilliant plan and decides to pretend to be Scar's hostage to cover her group's escape. After staying in Liore for a short time, Winry is taken on a military train back into Resembool in a water tank. When she goes into her house, she tries to change clothes, only to find Ed in her room flusteredly staring, causing her to scream before calming down and having a conversation with him, saying she has missed him since their last time together.  Later that night, Winry has dinner with Granny and Ed for the first time in so long, along with several others who came with them to the household.  After preparing his arm, Ed tells her to leave the country, but she promptly refuses, telling him to give it all he has and not doubt himself.  Unnoticed by her is the fact that Edward is now taller than her. During the Promised Day, Winry is killed upon the activation of the Gate, her final word being "Ed", but is resurrected along with the rest of the country by Van Hohenheim. The Elrics return afterwards, where she keeps her pr