# Çanakkale Onsekiz Mart University

Çanakkale Onsekiz Mart University (informally ÇOMÜ) is a Turkish public research university located in Çanakkale (Dardannelles) province (near Gallipoli) and its surrounding towns. It is a member of the Balkan Universities Network, the European University Association (EUA), International Association of Universities (IAU), and the Thrace Universities Union. It hosted the World Universities Congress in 2010.

The ÇOMÜ is listed among the world's top 1,000 best universities in the 2012 annual Scimago Institutions Rankings World Reports and one of the top innovative universities in Turkey The university was named as one of the top innovative Turkish universities in 2013 by the Turkish Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology.

History

Thrace University Period 
Some of the ÇOMÜ colleges were part of the Trakya (Thrace) University before 1992. The Faculty of Education is rooted in the 1950s. The Çanakkale Vocational School was also part of the Thrace University (Edirne).

Foundation 
The ÇOMÜ was founded in 1992 based upon the Faculty of Education on the Anafartalar Campus by the Turkish Parliament law. Before this the facilities had housed a teacher training institute that was a branch of Trakya University. The first rector of the university was Prof. Dr. Mete Tuncoku.

With its new status and intake from Turkey's large youth population, the university developed quickly in terms of the number of students, staff and facilities, spurring the opening of new faculties and colleges.

The university has expanded over the last few years and in the 2005–2006 academic year there were over 19,000 students participating in a variety of programs taught by 960 academic staff in two graduate schools, nine faculties, two polytechnic colleges (four-year programs) and 11 vocational colleges (two-year programs). There are several campuses in Chanakkale itself, and some of the academic units are located in other towns of the province.

The number of academicians in the ÇOMÜ is over 1800 and the student number is over 48.610 in 2020.

Rector of the university currently is Prof. Dr. Sedat Murat.

Academics
As of 2020, ÇOMÜ has approximately 48,800 students, of which 30,100 are enrolled in undergraduate programs, 13,600 in 2-years programs, and about 3,600 in MA and PhD programs. Each academic year, the ÇOMÜ hosts over 2000 regular international students from 68 different countries. 
As of 2020, the number of academical personnel is 1920. The total number of personnel reaches 3,000. 
The number of the alumni exceeds 112,000. The languages of instructions at ÇOMÜ are Turkish and English.

Faculties

 Biga Faculty of Economics and Administrative Sciences
 Faculty of Agriculture
 Faculty of Education
 Faculty of Engineering
 Faculty of Fine Arts
 Faculty of Marine Sciences and Technologies
 Faculty of Medicine
 Faculty of Sciences and Arts
 Faculty of Theology
 Faculty of Communication
 Faculty of Political Sciences in Çanakkale
 Faculty of Architecture and Design

Biga Faculty of Economics and Administrative Sciences, BIIBF
The Biga Faculty of Economics and Managements Studies is located in Biga, a town approximately 70 kilometers from the Canakkale city center. It offers courses at undergraduate and postgraduate levels.

The faculty publishes a quarterly journal: Journal of Administrative Sciences (YBD).

The departments are International Relations, Business Studies, Economics, Labor economics & Industrial Relations, Public Finance, Public Management.
 Dean: Prof. Dr. Ercan SARIDOĞAN
 Deputy Dean: Prof. Dr. Sedat MURAT
 Department of International Relations: Prof. Dr. Mete Tunçoku (Asia-Pacific), Prof. Dr. Yucel Acer (International Law); Assoc. Prof. Dr. Mehmet HASGULER (Cyprus), Assist. Prof. Dr. Bulent Uludağ (Caucasus), Assoc. Prof. Dr. Soner Karagül (International Relations), Asst. Prof. Dr. Bestami Sadi Bilgiç (Political History), Assist. Prof. Dr. Dr. Gurol BABA (Australia and Pacific), Assist. Prof. Dr. Ruhi Güler (International Politics).
 Department of Administrative Studies: Prof. Dr. Hamit Palabıyık (Urbanisation and Public Administration), Prof. Dr. Ibrahim Kaya (Sea Law), Assist. Prof. Kutay Üstün (Political Sciences), Assist. Prof. Dr. Assiye Aka (Political Sciences), Assist. Prof. Dr. Hikmet Yavaş (Law and Politics).
 Department of Labour Studies: Asst. Prof. Dr. Mahir Gümüş
 Web:

Faculty of Agriculture
The Faculty of Agriculture is located on the main Terzioglu Campus in Canakkale and has practical training facilities at its farm in the village of Saricaali (TETAM) and on the Dardanos Campus.

The departments are Agricultural Economics, Agricultural Construction and Irrigation, Agricultural Mechanisation, Animal Science, Field Crops, Horticulture, Landscaping, Plant Protection, Soil Science.

Faculty of Education
This is the largest faculty of the university, with approximately 4,500 students, and is on the Anafartalar Campus in the centre of Çanakkale. Departments are Computer and Educational Technology Teaching, Education Studies, Fine Arts Teaching, Foreign Language Teaching, Physical Education and Sports Teaching, Primary School Teaching, Secondary Education Social Subjects Teaching, Turkish Language Teaching.

Faculty of Engineering 

The Faculty of Engineering and Architecture is temporarily located in the Faculty of Sciences and Arts building on the Terzioglu Campus, until its own building is complete. Departments are Geomatics Engineering, Computer Engineering, Food Engineering, Geological Engineering, Geophysical Engineering and Environmental Engineering.

Faculty of Fine Arts
The Faculty of Fine Arts is housed in the buildings of Faculty of Agriculture, Faculty of Theology, Canakkale Vocational College. Nedime Hanim Friendship House is the nest for the departments of Textile, Performing and Visual Arts and Cinema and Television.

Departments are Ceramics, Cinema and Television, Performing and Visual Arts, Graphics, Painting, Photography, Sculpture, Textiles, Traditional Handicrafts.

Faculty of Marine Sciences and Technologies
The Faculty of Marine Science and Technologies was temporarily housed in the Faculty of Sciences and Arts building until the construction of its own building on the Terzioglu Campus. Its first name was Fisheries Faculty which founded in 1992 and started its academic program in 1995. It offers courses at undergraduate and postgraduate levels. It has several research facilities and laboratories for fisheries and aquatic research that encompasses a broad range of topics such as: aquaculture, water chemistry and pollution, fish diseases, biotechnology and genetics, seafood processing and quality, limnology and marine biology, and fisheries biology.

Departments are Aquaculture, Fishing and Processing, Hydrobiology.

Faculty of Medicine
The Faculty of Medicine received its first intake of students in 2002 and at present they are being educated at another university in Istanbul. Since 2007 students are educated in the Faculty of Medicine building in the main campus, Çanakkale.

The school has 320 students in 2012.

Faculty of Sciences and Arts
The Faculty of Sciences and Arts is on the Terzioglu Campus. Its departments are Archaeology, Art History, Sociology, Biology, Chemistry, English Language and Literature, Geography, History, Mathematics, Physics, Turkish Language and Literature.

The astronomical observatory ÇOMÜ Ulupınar Observatory, established in 2002, is run by the faculty.

Faculty of Theology
The ÇOMÜ Faculty of Theology is in its own building on the Terzioglu Campus. It offers undergraduate and postgraduate programmes to train students who will be able to offer their services to the community as Islamic clergymen or scholars or teachers of religious subjects in schools. Students who elect to study appropriate optional courses can also find employment in state archives or similar institutions.

Importance is also given to academic undertakings. Members of the faculty have organized national and international conferences and panel discussions, participated in interdisciplinary and regional projects (one of these funded by the Turkish Academy of Sciences), and presented papers at national and overseas conferences. Results of research undertakings are presented in publications and information about religious subjects given to the general public through participation in TV programmes and the like.

Departments are Basic Islamic Studies, Islamic History and Art, Philosophy and Religious Studies.

Faculty of Communication 
Founded in 2011. It is one of latest faculties of the university with 320 students.

Faculty of Political Sciences in Çanakkale 
Founded as "Faculty of Economics and Administrative Sciences" in 2012, began its first year with 11 departments (Political Science and Public Administration, Department of Economics, Department of Business Administration, Department of International Relations, Labour Economics and Industrial relations Department, Finance Department, Health Administration, D