# List of people from Tulsa, Oklahoma

This is a list of well-known persons who were either born in, or lived in, Tulsa, Oklahoma.

Arts
 Joe Brainard, (1942 - 1994) painter
 Charles Bell (1935–1995), artist
 Ted Berrigan, (1934 - 1983) poet
 James Pepper Henry, artist and Gilcrease Museum director (2015-2017)
 Roman Jasinski, (1907- 1991) ballet dancer and teacher
 Ron Padgett, (b. 1942) poet

Business
Frank Abagnale, fraud expert, former con man, subject of Catch Me If You Can
Cyrus Avery (1870–1963), businessman and "father of Route 66"
Bill Bartmann, businessman, named as "One of the Top 100 Entrepreneurs of the Last 100 Years"
W. Tate Brady (1870–1925), businessman, owner of the Brady Hotel
James A. Chapman (1881–1966), oilman and philanthropist
Robert Galbreath Jr.  (1863–1955), oilman who moved to Tulsa after he drilled the first oil well in Glenn Pool Field
J. Paul Getty (1892–1976), oilman founder of Getty Oil Company, who made his first million in Tulsa between 1914 and 1916
Thomas Gilcrease (1890–1962), oilman, founder of Gilcrease Museum
J. M. Hall (1851–1935), pioneer merchant in Tulsa, organized First Presbyterian Church
George Kaiser, chairman of BOK Financial Corporation
Henry Kravis, co-founder of Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co.
Joseph A LaFortune, (1894–1975), oilman and philanthropist
James H. McBirney (1870–1944), co-founder and president National Bank of Commerce in Tulsa
Sam P. McBirney (1877–1936), football coach and co-founder National Bank of Commerce in Tulsa
Robert M. McFarlin (1866–1942), oilman and philanthropist
Waite Phillips (1883–1964), oilman and philanthropist
Harry Ford Sinclair (1876–1956), founder of Sinclair Oil, co-founder of Exchange National Bank (later part of National Bank of Tulsa and Bank of Oklahoma; convicted of jury tampering during Teapot Dome scandal trial
 Carolyn Mary Skelly (1905–1996), eccentric daughter of William Grove Skelly; oil heiress; dubbed the most robbed woman in the U.S. by the Boston Globe; socialite; hosted fundraisers for President George H.W. Bush, and Texas Governor John Connally
William G. Skelly (1877–1957), founder of Skelly Oil Company, Spartan Aircraft Company and Spartan School of Aeronautics, philanthropist
William K. Warren Sr. (1897–1990), founder of Warren Petroleum Corporation; philanthropist
John Smith Zink (1928–2005), engineer, owner of John Zink Industries, automobile racer

Music
Admiral Twin (Mark Carr, Jarrod Gollihare, John Russell, Brad Becker), rock band
The Agony Scene, metalcore band
Elvin Bishop, blues and rock music singer-songwriter, guitarist and bandleader
Garth Brooks, country music singer
Broncho, punk rock band with Ryan Lindsey, Johnathon Ford of Roadside Monument, and Nathan Price
Anita Bryant, singer
J. J. Cale, songwriter and musician, an originator of The Tulsa Sound
Capital Lights, pop rock band
Rodney Carrington country music singer and comedian
Jeff Carson, country musician
Chuck Cissel, singer and dancer
Annie Clark (St. Vincent)
Roy Clark, country musician
David Cook, 2008 American Idol winner
Denny Cordell, record producer, signed Tom Petty as part of Mudcrutch
Ester Dean, singer-songwriter
Joe Diffie, country musician
Phil Driscoll, trumpet player and singer, Christian and jazz musician
Ronnie Dunn (Brooks and Dunn)
 Annie Ellicott, jazz, swing singer
Scott Ellison, electric blues guitarist, singer and songwriter
Ester Drang, indie band
Rocky Frisco, pianist for J.J. Cale; 2008 inductee into Oklahoma Blues Hall of Fame
The Gap Band, Charlie, Ronnie and Robert Wilson, R&B, funk, and soul band
David Gates, pop rock musician (Bread)
Hanson, Isaac, Taylor and Zac Hanson, Pop rock band
Gus Hardin, female country musician
Jacob Fred Jazz Odyssey, jazz band
William Johns, opera singer
Jim Keltner, drummer for the Traveling Wilburys
Tosca Kramer (1903–1976), violinist, violist, and music educator
Fredell Lack (1922–2017), violinist
Lega-C, rapper
Leon McAuliffe, steel guitarist Bob Wills And His Texas Playboys
Little Joe McLerran, singer, guitarist, recording artist and winner of 2009 International Blues Challenge
John Moreland, singer-songwriter
Jamie Oldaker, drummer, Eric Clapton, Bob Seger
Patti Page, singer
PDA, rapper
Pillar, band
Johnny Polygon, rapper
Carl Radle, musician, bassist for Derek and the Dominos
Ben Rector, singer-songwriter
Steve Ripley, engineer, producer, singer-songwriter and guitarist for The Tractors and Bob Dylan
Leon Russell, singer-songwriter, pianist, guitarist, an originator of The Tulsa Sound and founder of The Church Studio
SafetySuit, pop rock band
Jacob Sartorius, born in Tulsa but adopted and moved to upstate Virginia shortly after his birth
Natalie Sims, musician, songwriter and music executive
Andy Skib, guitarist, keyboardist in David Cook's band
Clyde Stacy, rockabilly musician
Ryan Tedder, producer, songwriter, lead singer of OneRepublic
David Teegarden, rock drummer with Teegarden & Van Winkle and with Bob Seger
Flash Terry, blues musician
Neal Tiemann, lead guitarist in David Cook's band
Wayman Tisdale (1964–2009), jazz musician and former professional basketball player
Dwight Twilley, poper pop, rock musician
Jared Tyler, singer-songwriter and producer
Unwed Sailor, instrumental indie rock
David T. Walker, session guitarist, famous for his work with Jackson 5, Bobby Womack, Levert and Stevie Wonder among others
Johnnie Lee Wills, western music band leader, brother of Bob Wills
Charlie Wilson, R&B singer and lead singer of The Gap Band
Bob Wootton, lead guitarist for the Tennessee Three
Tuck Andress, guitarist
Kristin Chenoweth, actress, singer and author
Dara Tucker, singer-songwriter and documentary filmmaker
AleXa, K-pop Idol

Politics
Tom Adelson, member of the Oklahoma State Senate
Bob Ballinger, member of the Arkansas House of Representatives, reared in Tulsa
Dewey F. Bartlett, former Governor of the state of Oklahoma and U.S. Senator
Dewey F. Bartlett Jr., former Mayor of Tulsa (2009–2016)
G. T. Bynum, Mayor of Tulsa (2016–present)
Jim R. Caldwell, retired Church of Christ minister and former member of the Arkansas State Senate
David Duke, former Grand Wizard of the Ku Klux Klan and former member of the Louisiana House of Representatives 
David Hall, former Governor of the state of Oklahoma
James Inhofe, U.S. Senator 
James R. Jones, former member of the U.S. House of Representatives, chairman of the American Stock Exchange
Frank Keating, former Governor of the state of Oklahoma
John Albert Knebel, Secretary of Agriculture in the Carter Administration
Sheila Kuehl, former actress, now California State Senator
Steve Largent, former member of the U.S. House of Representatives
Willian F. Martin, United States Deputy Secretary of Energy
Jim McConn, former Mayor of Houston, Texas, 1979–1981
Daniel Patrick Moynihan, former Democratic U.S. Senator representing New York was born in Tulsa.
George E. Nowotny, retired Tulsa businessman and former member of the Arkansas House of Representatives from Fort Smith
John A. Sullivan, member of the U.S. House of Representatives
Kathy Taylor, Mayor of Tulsa (2006–2009)
John Volz, attorney for the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Louisiana, died in Tulsa in 2011
R. James Woolsey Jr., former director, Central Intelligence Agency
Terry Young, former Mayor of the City of Tulsa

Print
Mildred Grosberg Bellin, Jewish cookbook author
William Bernhardt, mystery/suspense fiction author
Daniel J. Boorstin (1914-2004), historian and writer; former Librarian of Congress
Cleora Butler (1901–1985), chef, caterer and cookbook writer
Dorothy Carnegie  (1912–1998), author
P.C. Cast, author
John Hope Franklin, African American historian; namesake of John Hope Franklin Reconciliation Park in Tulsa
Martin Gardner, author of works on philosophy, mathematics and literature
Sterling Gates, comic book writer (Supergirl, Action Comics)
Joy Harjo, poet, musician, and author. First Native American Poet Laureate, and first Poet Laureate from Oklahoma.
S.E. Hinton, author (The Outsiders, That Was Then, This Is Now, Tex) 
Mercedes Lackey, science-fiction author
R.A. Lafferty, science-fiction author
Billie Letts, author, Where the Heart Is
Tracy Letts, Pulitzer Prize-winning playwright and actor (August: Osage County)
Joe McGuff, journalist and newspaper editor
Russell Myers, cartoonist, Broom-Hilda comic strip
Denver Nicks, journalist
Dan Piraro, cartoonist of the Bizarro comic strip
Nancy Speir, children's book illustrator
Grace Steele Woodward, writer and historian
William P. Steven, journalist and newspaper editor 
Clifton Taulbert, author, Once Upon a Time When We Were Colored
Will Thomas, mystery fiction author
Mildred Ladner Thompson, reporter for The Wall Street Journal and Tulsa World
Michael Wallis, author, Route 66, Pretty Boy Floyd, Mankiller, Billy the Kid Voice Of Sheriff in The Cars Series
K. D. Wentworth, science-fiction author
Cornel West, theologian, author

Radio
Paul Harvey (1918–2009), radio personality
Roy D. Mercer, fictional radio character

Screen and stage

Pamela Bach, actres