# Great Dangaioh

is a 2001 Japanese mecha anime series produced by AIC as the sequel to the 1987 OVA Hyper Combat Unit Dangaioh. It is directed by Toshiki Hirano and written by Sumio Uetake, while  Hirano's wife, Narumi Kakinouchi, was the animation director for episodes 1 and 3. It aired in TV Asahi in Japan from 5 April 2001 to 5 July 2001.

Plot
Somewhere in Japan, a bright light suddenly blasted from the ground. The light in a blink destroyed everything within a hundred-mile radius. People argued that falling space debris caused it, but  others felt that the unusual movement of terrestrial magnetism caused the light. The truth, however, remained hidden and blurred from people's memories. A little girl named Miya is the only one that knows what the light is.

Ten years later, an army of giant robots suddenly appear and devastates the Earth. They call themselves "EX Tartaro," whom pilot four major robots - the Four Kyokuohand. Their mission is to "purify the world". Three battle robots, the Dangaioh, defeated the enemy with ease. Sensing the strength of their enemy, the Ex Tartao united to form one giant robot. The three members of the Dangaioh team united into Dangaioh to reveal their true powers and eventually destroyed the invading force. The plot was devised by madman Dr. Katou, who was once the co-planner of the Dangaioh. The Dangai Project began preparations for a battle from a threat from the outer space pirate "Bunker". Dr. Katou and Yonamine had a big dispute, leading to Dr. Katou's betrayal. Now, in a secret underground organization, Dr. Yonamine and the Dangaioh are prepared to face off against Dr. Katou and his robotic troops.

Characters

Main characters 
 Kuya Amagi

A 15-year-old boy who is the Dangaioh B's pilot and leader of Dangaioh. He carries on the will of his brother, who was the official nominee for pilot on the Dangaioh project. He has a lot of faith and mental prowess to make up for his weaknesses. He's a quiet but hot-blooded young man. Aside from that, he is also very sensitive. Kuya can be very indecisive however. For example, he would give up his life to protect someone he likes, but when someone confesses love for him, he cannot give them a clear answer.

 Manami Mishio

A 15-year-old girl who is the pilot of Dangaioh's F and controls the brain of Dangaioh. Although Mishio isn't as physically fit and strong as the other pilots, she has an amazing memory and analytical skills, which prove useful in combat. She is also quiet, tender and always has a smile on her face.

 Hitomi Chidou

A 15-year-old girl who is the Dangaioh's X pilot and controller of Dangaioh's heart. Hitomi uses "hot-blooded", "Battle Soul" and "Victory" in her guiding philosophy. She's very upfront and speaks her mind. She has seen the gentle side of Kuya in battle and has a bit of an attraction for him. Hitomi has the courage to charge into a group of enemies in a fight.

Supporting characters 
 Gunji Yonamine

The leader of the Dangai Project and the creator of Dangaioh. He is the leading authority in robotic engineering. Gunji easily won the title of "genius scientist" while he was still a young man. He comes from honorable ancestry and therefore is able to use his connections in politics, conglomerates, and the military to build Awaruda base and Dangaioh.
 Miya Shikitani

The scientist and designer of Dangaioh who is an authority on, and possesses a high-level of ESP power, maybe due to the incident that happened in the past. Ten years ago after the incident, she receives telepathic messages from an unidentified entity to begin planning a secret operation called the Dangai Project. During her time cooperating with Gunji Yonamine over the past 10 years, she continues to receive telepathic messages from the unidentified entity on designing a weapon called Dangaioh.
 Chiho Kazamaki

The doctor on call in the Awaruda basement. Physical and mental status of the pilots are her top priority and she constantly updates Miya Shikitani on the pilot's condition. She's also the one person the Dangaioh pilots turn to when they have problems with their lives or complaints and enjoys making fun of the younger pilots, especially Kuya. She's rather close to Miya Shikitani for some reason.
 Ryuko Shima
The public relations officer of the Agwaruda base. The eldest of the support girls, she is looked upon by the others like a big sister.
 Kyoko Tamahara
One of the eight main operators at the Agwaruda base and the only one that works within the central command center when Dangaioh is on an operation.
 Kasumi Yamagata
Is the reserve pilot for the Dangaioh team. She's Kuya's junior and is often impatient, longing to become a permanent member of the pilot's roster.
 Kozue Mori
Is the head mechanic of the Agwaruda base and leads her team in the heavy demands that maintaining the Dangaioh mechas require.
 Kaori Tsukishiro

The assistant to Miya Shikitani who lives in the Awaruda Base and also possesses ESP powers. A major basement staff candidate with a short temper, mainly because she's only an assistant and candidate. She tends to pester Kuya.
 Romrin

A one foot prototype medical robot that was created by an unspecified company and was planned to be destroyed due to complications with his AI that made him perverted. After some false medical procedures he can stimulate the nerve cells of Manami and Hitomi, allowing them to wake up in a frenzy if they are knocked out during battle. His head can also be separated from the rest of his body.
 Mia Alice
One of the pilots of the original Dangaioh, Mia left Earth in 1987 to secretly fight against space pirates called the Bunker. Mia has strong psychic powers which allows her to devastate things around her by will, but this is checked by her compassionate nature. After the events of the original OVA her fighter crash lands to Earth causing the infamous incident and psychically comes into contact with Miya revealing her story. For the next 10 years she would remain in a stasis tube, although thanks to Miya she was able to warn the people of Earth and provide information of how the original Dangaioh was created.
 Kyoji Reisen
Kyoji is a mysterious young man that is shadowing the movements of the three Dangaioh pilots. In the final episode he is revealed to be the pilot of Great Dangaioh.

Villains 

Danjou Katou (Dr. Kadou)
The co-planner of Dangaioh and the enemy of Great Dangaioh in the first episode. He was opposed to Gunji Yonamine's opinions when it comes to producing manned or unmanned robots, specifically the use of human brain cells as AI. Expelled from the research institute following the disagreement, he secretly stole the robot data and related documents to build his powerful robots to achieve his goal of "purifying the world". After his death in the first episode various governments and corporations try to destroy the Peace Fort and Dangaioh in an attempt to rule the world.

Exception
Bio weapons created by the Bunker from the original OVA. Starting in the second half of the series they begin to invade earth with Dangaioh being their primary target. The Exception are easily tracked by espers such as Miya. The members of the Exception are composed of ten soldiers called the Zolfos, a scout named Gelfo, and three leaders named Bababaruba, Bucharu, and Inokirugo that only come to battle as a last resort.
Gelfo: Appears in episode 8. Powers include encasing itself in a meteor, an eye energy ray that spawns crystals, energy absorption, a semi solid body, and eye energy balls.
Zolfo: Appear in episodes 10 and 12. Powers include encasing themselves in a meteor, eye acid and heat lasers, spear-like fingers, and levitation.
Bababaruba: Appears in the final episode. Powers include flight, speed, and a spear hidden in the left arm.
Bucharu: Appears in the final episode. Powers include flight, speed, a capture ring with a tether, and a high resistance to energy based attacks.
Inokirugo: Appears in the final episode. Powers include flight, speed, and a laser pistol stored in the right thigh.

Mechanics
Dangaioh was created by Gunji Yonamine and Dr. Miya Shikitani. It is formed by 3 separate robots codenamed Dangai-numbers; the Dangaioh B, Dangaioh F, and Dangaioh X.

Dangaioh B (Burst)
 Dangaioh B is piloted by Kuya Amagi. Because this unit places the most stress upon a pilot, it was given to Kuya, who was seen as physically strong enough to handle the unit. Burst forms the head and chest of Dangaioh when merged and gives the pilot of Dangaioh Burst primary control of Dangaioh itself. Alone, it primarily uses an automatic rifle with sniper-like range.

Dangaioh F (Flail)
 Dangaioh F is piloted by Manami Mishio. Not built for physical combat, Flail's role is electronic warfare, jamming, analysis, and recon. When merged into Dangaioh, Flail forms the body. In combat, its primary weapon is a cloud of electronic beacons that disrupts enemy functions. Dangaioh F is also the most fragile of the three.

Dangaioh X (Cross)
 The Dangaioh