# Stephen Wallace

Stephen Henry Wallace A.M. (born 23 December 1943) is an Australian film and television director, screenwriter, producer, published author and acting coach. He has directed eight feature films, nine telemovies, numerous short films, worked on multiple television series and has a small theatre company.

Known for his eye for talent and passion for working with young artists, many now established actors can attribute their first feature film, or on-screen debut to working with Wallace; from Bryan Brown to Russell Crowe, Naomi Watts and many others.

Over the course of his career, Wallace's films have been recognised with over 38 nominations at local and international film festivals. In 2005, Wallace was awarded an Order of Australia in the Queen's Birthday Honours List for his contributions to the Australian film and television industry as both a director, and to the Australian Screen Directors' Association. In 2012, the ADG awarded Wallace the prestigious Cecil Holmes Award, presented in recognition of advocacy for, and services to directing.

A founding signatory, Wallace was President of the Australian Directors Guild between 1991 and 2000 and remains on the Board today as Treasurer. He currently sits as Chair of The Australian Screen Directors Collecting Society (ASDACS).

Short films 
Early in his career, Wallace worked at Film Australia as a production assistant and director of documentaries.

Wallace then made several short 16mm fiction films, including: The Look, Brittle Weather Journey (screened at Ann Arbor Film Festival and at the Sydney Filmmakers' Co-op, 1974), Break Up (a finalist in the Greater Union Awards at the 1976 Sydney Film Festival) and Con Man Harry (winner of the Experimental section of the Chicago Film Festival, 1980).

Telemovies and documentaries 
Wallace then transitioned into making a series of one hour telemovies and documentaries for Australian television networks. These included: the award winning Women of the Sun for SBS (1982); Quest Beyond Time for the Children's Television Foundation (1984); an ABC feature film Hunger (1987) for Jan Chapman; Gordon Bennett, a one hour drama for The Nine Network, as well as  several documentaries for Seven Network.

Feature films 
The Love Letters from Teralba Road (1977)His first short feature film was The Love Letters from Teralba Road (1977). Wallace found a number of letters in a Sydney flat in 1972 which had been written by a man living in Newcastle in 1959. He had beaten up his wife, who subsequently moved to Sydney and was asking for her forgiveness. Wallace drew inspiration from these to both write and direct the short film. The film is widely known as Bryan Brown's on-screen debut. In 1980 David Stratton called it, "not only the most moving love story given to us by the Australian cinema, but also probably the best featurette of the decade."

The film won three awards at the 1977 Film Institute Awards (Best Cinematography in a Non-Feature Film, Best Short Fiction Film, Special Award) and in 1978 the Interfilm Award at the Berlin International Film Festival.

Stir (1980)His feature directorial debut took place with Stir in 1980. The New South Wales Film Corporation was looking at investing in additional features films made by directors in whom they saw potential. Wallace had just made the critically acclaimed one-hour drama The Love Letters from Teralba Road and was asked if he had any new projects. He told them about this prison drama.

The film, also starring Bryan Brown, was written by Bob Jewson and based upon his own experiences while incarcerated during the 1974 prison riots at Bathurst Correctional Complex and subsequent Royal Commission into New South Wales Prisons. The film was shot over five weeks in October and November 1979 in South Australia at an abandoned prison in Gladstone.

Of the experience, Wallace recalls:

"Bob Jewson said one thing - and I think this is what we tried to make the theme of the film, although it was very hidden - that riots don't happen out of the blue. The prison authorities make you believe that all these criminals that are incarcerated are at all times dangerous and they're trying to get out. But Bob said that's never true; most of them have accepted their lot and they're trying to serve their time. They only get into a riot situation when they're treated badly and unfairly over a long period. He said most people don't want a riot; they know what it's going to mean - longer in jail."

The firm premiered at the 1980 Cannes Film Festival, also showing at the 1980 Edinburgh International Film Festival (UK), 1980 San Francisco International Film Festival (USA), Canale 5 in Italy, and many more.  At the 1980 Australian Film Institute Awards, Stir received 13 nominations but did not win any categories.The Boy Who Had Everything (1986)

In 1984, Wallace wrote and directed his third feature film, The Boy Who Had Everything. The film began as autobiographical for Wallace but made some creative compromises in consultation with his Producers and Script Editors in the hope it would make the film more commercial. The film starred Sean Connery's first wife Diane Cilento and their son, Jason Connery - playing mother and son on-screen.

The film was first released at the 1985 Moscow Film Festival.

For Love Alone (1986)

In 1986, Wallace directed and adaptation of Christina Stead's novel, For Love Alone, in a film by the same title. Wallace also wrote the screenplay adaptation. The film starred critically acclaimed actors Helen Buday, Hugo Weaving and Sam Neill, as well as marking Australian actress Naomi Watts' feature film debut.

The film was a pet project for Producer Margaret Fink who took six years to raise financing. The bulk of the money came from a pre-sale to Greater Union and from UA. Fink had been impressed by Stir and asked Stephen Wallace to direct the feature. An earlier draft of the adaptation had been written, but neither Fink nor Wallace were happy with it so Wallace did the adaptation himself. Wallace says it took him three and a half years to write the script.

The film was entered into the 37th Berlin International Film Festival with Wallace being nominated for the prestigious Golden Berlin Bear Award, as well as receiving five nominations at the Australian Film Institute Awards.

Olive (1988)Wallace made Olive in 1988. The film earned four nominations at the 1988 Australian Film Institute Awards, with Kerry McGuire winning Best Performance by an Actress in a Telefeature.Blood Oath (1990)In 1990, Wallace directed Blood Oath (known in some countries as Prisoners of the Sun). The film was co-written by Denis Whitburn and Brian A. Williams. The film is based on the real-life trial of Japanese soldiers for war crimes committed against Allied prisoners of war on the island of Ambon, in the Netherlands East Indies (Indonesia), such as the Laha massacre of 1942.

Blood Oath stars Bryan Brown, George Takei, Terry O'Quinn, John Bach, John Clarke, Deborah Kara Unger, John Polson, Nicholas Eadie, David Argue and Ray Barrett. The film is also widely known as the first film debut for both Russell Crowe and Jason Donovan. It was nominated for several 1990 Australian Film Institute Awards, including "Best Film". It won the AFI Awards for Best Achievement in Sound and Best Achievement in Costume Design.Turtle Beach (1992)Wallace's final feature film before taking a hiatus from directing was Turtle Beach. Wallace was hired because the financiers who had invested in his movie Blood Oath loved his work and saw him as a good choice. The screenplay was written by Ann Turner, based on the 1981 novel of the same name by Blanche d'Alpuget. The film stars Greta Scacchi and Joan Chen.A Suburban Love Story (2018)

In 2014, it was announced that Wallace was directing again. The low budget film, The Body in the Yard (later changed to A Suburban Love Story) , was set to begin shooting on 28 August 2014, with an all-Australian cast. This film is based on an Australian newspaper story Wallace read back in the 1980s or 90s, about the murder by a husband of his wife; the husband buried his murdered wife in the backyard and continued to live with his girlfriend in the same house.

Television 
Stephen Wallace has directed various TV series and nine telemovies, four of which were made for the Australian Broadcasting Commission (ABC).

Between 1985 and 1998, Wallace directed episodes of Women of the Sun, The Flying Doctors, Australians, Seven Deadly Sins, Twisted Tales and Water Rats, among others.

Theatre and Developing Actors 

From the onset of his career, Wallace has been widely known to have a passion for working with actors, both as a professional coach, in theatre, and to get the most out of his cast. Wallace has worked on and off as an acting teacher for Screenwise Australia for several years.

Many now established actors can attribute their first feature film, or on-screen debut to working with Wallace; from the likes of Bryan Brown to R