# Sadie Coles HQ

Sadie Coles HQ is a contemporary art gallery in London,  owned and directed by Sadie Coles. The gallery focuses on presenting the work of established and emerging international artists. It was at the forefront of the Young British Artists movement.

History
Sadie Coles HQ opened in April 1997 and has since operated from a variety of distinctive spaces. Its inaugural exhibition at 35 Heddon Street, by American painter John Currin, was followed by Sarah Lucas’s exhibition ‘The Law’ in lofts on St John Street.

Between 2010 and 2013, Sadie Coles HQ was located at both New Burlington Place – a  space on the site of Nigel Greenwood's gallery during the 1980s and 90s – and on South Audley Street.

In 2013, Sadie Coles HQ moved to its current location, a  first floor gallery on Kingly Street in what was formerly the La Valbonne nightclub. In November 2015, it opened a third location in a glass-fronted  space on Davies Street in Mayfair designed by 6a architects

Since her inaugural exhibition, Coles has followed the same formula for each of her invitations. Taking the graphic identity of the gallery itself – a grey block that represents the gallery space and is found on all her branded material – she uses the same block on the invitations, allowing each artist to choose their own colour. A piece of the artist’s work is then shown on the inside of the card.

In 2014, Sadie Coles was listed as one of 'the most powerful people in the art world' by The Guardian.

From February to December 2012, Situation, a temporary space, showed works by Sarah Lucas. The extended display included works both new and historical, mainly by Lucas and occasionally involving other artists.

Artists
Sadie Coles HQ represents numerous living artists, including:
 Alvaro Barrington 
 Steve Dowson
 Sarah Lucas (since 1997) 
 Carl Andre
 Matthew Barney
 Avner Ben-Gal
 Frank Benson
 John Bock
 Don Brown
 Spartacus Chetwynd
 Steven Claydon
 John Currin
 Sam Durant
 Angus Fairhurst
 Urs Fischer
 Jonathan Horowitz
 David Korty
 Gabriel Kuri
 Jim Lambie
 Lawrence Lek
 Hilary Lloyd
 Sarah Lucas 
 Helen Marten
 Hellen van Meene
 Victoria Morton
 JP Munro
 Laura Owens 
 Simon Periton
 Raymond Pettibon
 Elizabeth Peyton
 Richard Prince
 Ugo Rondinone
 Wilhelm Sasnal
 Gregor Schneider
 Daniel Sinsel
 Andreas Slominski
 Christiana Soulou
 Rudolf Stingel
 Ryan Sullivan
 Martine Syms (since 2017) 
 Nicola Tyson
 Paloma Varga Weisz
 TJ Wilcox
 Jordan Wolfson 
 Andrea Zittel

In addition, the gallery manages various artist estates, including: 
 William N. Copley

References

Further reading
Sadie Coles and Jonathan Harris, "Sadie Coles HQ: Anatomy of a gallery in the age of globalised contemporary art" in Art, Money, Parties: New Institutions in the Political Economy of Contemporary Art, ed. Jonathan Harris, University of Chicago Press, 2005.

External links
Sadie Coles HQ website
Sadie Coles HQ at Ocula
Sadie Coles HQ at Royist

 

Event venues established in 1997
Contemporary art galleries in London
Buildings and structures in the City of Westminster
Tourist attractions in the City of Westminster
Art galleries established in 1997
1997 establishments in England