# Eastcliff (mansion)

Eastcliff is a 20-room house overlooking the Mississippi River in St. Paul, Minnesota, United States, which serves as the official residence of the president of the University of Minnesota system.  It was first built in 1922 by local lumber magnate Edward Brooks Sr. and donated to the university by the Brooks family in 1958, beginning its service as the president's official residence in 1960 when O. Meredith Wilson took the position.  In 2000, the home was added to the National Register of Historic Places.  

Today, it is the most-visited public residence in the state (outpacing the Minnesota Governor's Residence), often hosting events five days a week. Eastcliff hosts 150+ events and 8,000 guests each year.

In December 2022, a task force convened by the University of Minnesota Board of Regents recommended selling the property, noting that the property requires $300,000 to $400,000 per year in operating costs, and could require over $1 million in repairs over the next decade.

Presidents 
The following is a list of university presidents who have resided at Eastcliff:
O. Meredith Wilson
Malcolm Moos
C. Peter Magrath
Kenneth Keller
Nils Hasselmo
Mark Yudof
Robert H. Bruininks
Eric W. Kaler
Joan T.A. Gabel
Before Eastcliff became the president's residence, Pillsbury House, built in 1877, was the official residence.

Property 
The building was designed in the Georgian colonial style by Clarence H. Johnston Sr., a close friend of Brooks and an architect who had designed many buildings at the university to fit a master plan by Cass Gilbert.  Numerous renovations took place over the years, though repair efforts did not keep pace with wear and tear.  In 1988, extensive repairs began on the house, but unforeseen problems caused costs to double.  The ensuing outcry contributed to the exit of president Kenneth Keller from office. 

The main house is 10,000 square feet, with the entire property encompassing 20,000 square feet including the carriage house and summer house. The property value is estimated at $3.1 million, according to Ramsey County property tax records. The property is 1.6 acres.

In 2010, $550,000 in renovations were planned after the departure of President Bruininks. The renovations were approved by the Minnesota State Historic Preservation Office and the Brooks family, who owned the property.

In 2018, $1 million in renovations were planned after the departure of President Eric Kaler.

Governor's Residence 
On July 10, 2023, Governor Tim Walz's family moved into Eastcliff while the Minnesota Governor's Residence underwent renovations. The mansion was unoccupied at the time after President Gabel's resignation. They are expected to stay at Eastcliff for eighteen months. The State is paying $4,400 in monthly rent, and is also responsible for "direct costs such as utilities, snow removal and lawn care."

See also
 List of university and college presidents' houses in the United States
 National Register of Historic Places listings in Ramsey County, Minnesota

References

External links
University of Minnesota: Eastcliff
The Minnesota Daily: In Eastcliff mansion, Kalers share space with public
MPR News: This old University of Minnesota house: a peek inside Eastcliff
Minnpost: With new U president installed, time for Eastcliff FAQ

Colonial Revival architecture in Minnesota
Houses completed in 1922
Houses in Saint Paul, Minnesota
Houses on the National Register of Historic Places in Minnesota
National Register of Historic Places in Saint Paul, Minnesota
University and college buildings on the National Register of Historic Places in Minnesota
University of Minnesota