# The New Adventures of Pippi Longstocking

The New Adventures of Pippi Longstocking is a 1988 musical adventure film written and directed by Ken Annakin, based on the Pippi Longstocking book series by Astrid Lindgren. It is a Swedish-German-American joint venture produced by Columbia Pictures, Longstocking Productions, and Svensk Filmindustri. While the title suggests a continuation of previous entries, it is in fact a remake of the original story.

Filmed in Fernandina Beach on Amelia Island and at soundstages in Jacksonville, Florida, the film premiered on March 8, 1988 in Tokyo, before it was released on July 29 in the United States and September 9 in Sweden. It received mixed reviews upon release and became a financial failure. It was Annakin's last finished feature film before he died on April 22, 2009.

Plot

Pippi Longstocking, who travels on the ship Hoptoad with her sailor father, Efraim, encounters a sudden storm caused by a volcanic eruption. After Efraim disappears into the sea, Pippi travels to the small coastal town of Rocksby, accompanied by her horse, Alfonso, and monkey, Mr. Nilsson. She takes up residence in her father's home, Villa Villekulla, which the neighborhood children believe is haunted.

Soon Tommy and Annika Settigren venture into it after seeing lights in the windows. Looking for ghosts, they meet Pippi, Mr. Nilsson, and Alfonso instead. They become friends and get into various adventures together such as making pancakes, cleaning the floor with scrubbing shoes, serving ice cream to residents of the local children's home, riding a motorcycle, and dodging "splunks". Pippi must also fight off Mr. Blackhart and his henchmen, Rype and Rancid, who want to demolish her house and sell the property, as well as avoid being legally taken to the children's home by the owner, Miss Bannister. She agrees to escape and flee with Tommy and Annika in a homemade autogyro to avoid this fate. However, they are rescued after nearly going over a waterfall while riding in barrels down a river.

Thinking that Pippi will hurt Tommy and Annika, Mr. and Mrs. Settigren refuse to let them play with her anymore. Pippi believes that they would be better off without her and goes to the children's home. As a result, she is forced to leave Mr. Nilsson and Alfonso behind. She is unable to fit in with the other orphans due to her lack of discipline and education. However, after she rescues the children's home from a fire accidentally started by the janitor and is lauded by the townsfolk as a heroine, she is allowed to return home and play with Tommy and Annika again.

She is reunited with Efraim on Christmas Day, and he offers her the chance to become a cannibal princess of the uncharted island he had washed ashore on and was crowned king. She agrees and everyone comes out to bid her a tearful farewell. Just as they prepare to sail off, she decides to stay after seeing that everyone is sad to see her go. She explains to Efraim that she can't leave Tommy and Annika. He understands and tells her that he loves her. As Efraim sails off he tells Pippi that if she needs anything she knows where to find him. They say goodbye and she goes home with Tommy, Annika, Mr. Nilsson, and Alfonso.

Cast
 Tami Erin as Pippilotta Delicatessa Windowshade Mackrelmint Efraim's Daughter "Pippi" Longstocking, a spunky eleven-year-old girl who arrives on land after her father is lost at sea. Pippi's mother died when she was a baby.
 David Seaman, Jr. as Tommy Settigren, Annika's older brother who becomes friends with Pippi.
 Cory Crow as Annika Settigren, Tommy's little sister who becomes friends with Pippi.
 Eileen Brennan as Miss Bannister, the well-meaning no-nonsense owner of the children's home who believes that Pippi will be safer under her care. Miss Bannister tries to explain to Pippi that because she's an unaccompanied minor and can offer no proof that her father is still alive by law she has to live at the children's home.  
 Dennis Dugan as Mr. Settigren, Tommy and Annika's father, and the town's attorney; he finds Pippi's influence on his children disruptive.
 Dianne Hull as Mrs. Settigren, Tommy and Annika's mother, and a housewife; while initially fond of Pippi, she becomes increasingly concerned with her children's well-being.
 George DiCenzo as Mr. Blackhart, a local, shady businessman who wants to acquire Villa Villekulla in order to raise real estate.
 Dick Van Patten as Gregory, a strange inventor of glue that enables people to walk up and down walls.
 John Schuck as Efraim Longstocking, Pippi's widowed father and captain of the ship Hoptoad.
 Michael Mendelson as Efraim's singing voice.
 Branscombe Richmond as Fridolf, Efraim's cabin boy and best friend. Fridolf is in charge of homeschooling Pippi while she's at sea. He agrees with Pippi that school is a waste of time. 
 Fay Masterson as Head Girl, a bossy older girl at the children's home. Head Girl wants Pippi to understand that she's safer at the children's home and taken care of.
 Carole Kean as Miss Messerschmidt, a strict teacher at the children's home who wants Pippi to get an education.
 Frank Welker and Michael Bell as Mr. Nilsson and Alfonso, Pippi's pet monkey and Appaloosa horse respectively.
 Clark Niederjohn as Jake, the town pilot who befriends Pippi and invents an autogyro.

Songs
 "Pippi Longstocking Is Coming Into Your Town" – Margie Nelson and the International Children's Choir
 "We Live on the Seas" – Capt. Longstocking, Pippi and the Hoptoad Crew
 "Scrubbing Day" – Marlene Ricci, Pippi, Tommy, Annika and the International Children's Choir 
 "Pippi Longstocking Is Coming Into Your Town (Reprise)" - Margie Nelson, Pippi and the International Children's Choir
 "Runnin' Away" – Margie Nelson, Pippi, Annika and the International Children's Choir 
 "Runnin' Away (Reprise)" – Pippi, Tommy and Annika
 "Sticky Situation" – Sandra Simmons
 "Merry Christmas Tree" – Gail Lopata Lennon
 "We Live on the Seas (Reprise)" – Pippi, Capt. Longstocking and the Hoptoad Crew
 "Pippi Longstocking Is Coming Into Your Town (2nd Reprise)" – Margie Nelson and the International Children's Choir

Production

Development
The idea of an American film adaptation of the Pippi Longstocking series by Astrid Lindgren was first developed when producer Gary Mehlman's daughters, Romy and Alexandra, convinced him to try to secure the rights from Lindgren. When he wrote a letter to her expressing interest in acquiring the rights to the film in November 1983, she declined, as she regarded the character as "her own daughter".

Eventually, in August 1984, Mehlman traveled to Stockholm during pre-production of The Yellow Jersey to meet with Lindgren and Svensk Filmindustri executives Lennart Wiklund and Conny Planborg for the film rights. Although Svensk Filmindustri was willing to give non-Scandinavian rights to the film, Lindgren was hesitant. After Romy hugged her during their introduction, she gave her approval. After returning from Stockholm, Mehlman met with Walter Moshay, an investment consultant and Mehlman's best friend, and Mishaal Kamal Adham, a Saudi Arabian investor who never produced a film before. Having convinced Moshay and Adham to produce the film with a $12–15 million budget, Mehlman formed Longstocking Productions with them; Mehlman and Moshay served as producers, while Adham served as an executive producer. On August 15, it was announced that Mehlman purchased the rights to the film and that Kimi Peck would write the script for the film. Ken Annakin and Gary Melham were planning to film a sequel to the movie.

On October 16, 1985, it was announced that Ken Annakin would write the screenplay and production was scheduled to start early in 1986 with an estimated budget of $10–12 million; Bavaria, Florida and North Carolina listed as filming locations. At the American Film Market on February 25, 1986, Producers Sales Organization announced that they acquired the foreign sales rights to the film, with TriStar Pictures distributing it in North America.

Casting
To cast the titular character, Mehlman, Moshay, and Annakin, along with casting director Garrison True and executive vice president of marketing Gary Shapiro, began an international search for potential actresses on October 7, 1985. Over 8,000 actresses from United States, Canada and the United Kingdom participated in the auditions. After going through two callbacks and a screen test, Tami Erin was eventually selected for the role on February 21, 1986. She was excited at the prospect of working on the film, saying, "This is it! The [hotel elevator] door opened and [...] [Annakin] said, 'You got it!' Oh, oh! I had no idea I would get so emotional after all these years, oh my God! I just jumped in his arms!"

On Erin's casting, Annakin said, "I don't want [Tami] to turn into Pippi. I want Pippi to turn into [Tami]. I've never seen anyone radiate sunshine the way she does."

Filming

Principal photography began on May 17, 1987 in Fernandina Beach, Florida. During the production, Annakin