[The Art of War — Sun Tzu (strategy) — Gutenberg #1541]

Leave me a while. [_Exit Cromwell._] [_Aside_.] It shall be to the Duchess of Alençon, The French king’s sister; he shall marry her. Anne Bullen? No; I’ll no Anne Bullens for him. There’s more in’t than fair visage. Bullen? No, we’ll no Bullens. Speedily I wish To hear from Rome. The Marchioness of Pembroke! NORFOLK. He’s discontented. SUFFOLK. Maybe he hears the King Does whet his anger to him. SURREY. Sharp enough, Lord, for thy justice! WOLSEY. [_Aside_.] The late queen’s gentlewoman, a knight’s daughter, To be her mistress’ mistress? The Queen’s Queen? This candle burns not clear. ’Tis I must snuff it; Then out it goes. What though I know her virtuous And well deserving? Yet I know her for A spleeny Lutheran, and not wholesome to Our cause, that she should lie i’ th’ bosom of Our hard-ruled King. Again, there is sprung up An heretic, an arch-one, Cranmer, one Hath crawled into the favour of the King And is his oracle. NORFOLK. He is vexed at something. Enter King, reading a schedule, and Lovell. SURREY. I would ’twere something that would fret the string, The master-cord on ’s heart. SUFFOLK. The King, the King! KING. What piles of wealth hath he accumulated To his own portion! And what expense by th’ hour Seems to flow from him! How, i’ th’ name of thrift Does he rake this together? Now, my lords, Saw you the Cardinal? NORFOLK. My lord, we have Stood here observing him. Some strange commotion Is in his brain. He bites his lip, and starts, Stops on a sudden, looks upon the ground, Then lays his finger on his temple; straight Springs out into fast gait; then stops again, Strikes his breast hard, and anon he casts His eye against the moon. In most strange postures We have seen him set himself. KING. It may well be There is a mutiny in ’s mind. This morning Papers of state he sent me to peruse, As I required; and wot you what I found There—on my conscience, put unwittingly? Forsooth, an inventory, thus importing The several parcels of his plate, his treasure, Rich stuffs and ornaments of household, which I find at such proud rate that it outspeaks Possession of a subject. NORFOLK. It’s heaven’s will! Some spirit put this paper in the packet To bless your eye withal. KING. If we did think His contemplation were above the earth And fixed on spiritual object, he should still Dwell in his musings, but I am afraid His thinkings are below the moon, not worth His serious considering. [_King takes his seat; whispers Lovell, who goes to the Cardinal._] WOLSEY. Heaven forgive me! Ever God bless your Highness. KING. Good my lord, You are full of heavenly stuff, and bear the inventory Of your best graces in your mind, the which You were now running o’er. You have scarce time To steal from spiritual leisure a brief span To keep your earthly audit. Sure, in that I deem you an ill husband, and am glad To have you therein my companion. WOLSEY. Sir, For holy offices I have a time; a time To think upon the part of business which I bear i’ th’ state; and Nature does require Her times of preservation, which perforce I, her frail son, amongst my brethren mortal, Must give my tendance to. KING. You have said well. WOLSEY. And ever may your Highness yoke together, As I will lend you cause, my doing well With my well saying. KING. ’Tis well said again, And ’tis a kind of good deed to say well. And yet words are no deeds. My father loved you; He said he did, and with his deed did crown His word upon you. Since I had my office, I have kept you next my heart, have not alone Employed you where high profits might come home, But pared my present havings to bestow My bounties upon you. WOLSEY. [_Aside_.] What should this mean? SURREY. [_Aside_.] The Lord increase this business! KING. Have I not made you The prime man of the state? I pray you tell me, If what I now pronounce you have found true, And, if you may confess it, say withal If you are bound to us or no. What say you? WOLSEY. My sovereign, I confess your royal graces, Showered on me daily, have been more than could My studied purposes requite, which went Beyond all man’s endeavours. My endeavours Have ever come too short of my desires, Yet filed with my abilities. Mine own ends Have been mine so that evermore they pointed To th’ good of your most sacred person and The profit of the state. For your great graces Heaped upon me, poor undeserver, I Can nothing render but allegiant thanks, My prayers to heaven for you, my loyalty, Which ever has and ever shall be growing, Till death, that winter, kill it. KING. Fairly answered. A loyal and obedient subject is Therein illustrated. The honour of it Does pay the act of it, as i’ th’ contrary, The foulness is the punishment. I presume That, as my hand has opened bounty to you, My heart dropped love, my power rained honour, more On you than any, so your hand and heart, Your brain, and every function of your power, Should, notwithstanding that your bond of duty, As ’twere in love’s particular, be more To me, your friend, than any. WOLSEY. I do profess That for your Highness’ good I ever laboured More than mine own, that am, have, and will be. Though all the world should crack their duty to you And throw it from their soul, though perils did Abound as thick as thought could make ’em, and Appear in forms more horrid—yet my duty, As doth a rock against the chiding flood, Should the approach of this wild river break, And stand unshaken yours. KING. ’Tis nobly spoken. Take notice, lords: he has a loyal breast, For you have seen him open’t. [_Giving him papers._] Read o’er this, And after, this; and then to breakfast with What appetite you have. [_Exit King, frowning upon the Cardinal; the nobles throng after him, smiling and whispering._] WOLSEY. What should this mean? What sudden anger’s this? How have I reaped it? He parted frowning from me, as if ruin Leaped from his eyes. So looks the chafed lion Upon the daring huntsman that has galled him, Then makes him nothing. I must read this paper— I fear, the story of his anger. ’Tis so. This paper has undone me. ’Tis th’ account Of all that world of wealth I have drawn together For mine own ends—indeed, to gain the popedom And fee my friends in Rome. O negligence, Fit for a fool to fall by! What cross devil Made me put this main secret in the packet I sent the King? Is there no way to cure this? No new device to beat this from his brains? I know ’twill stir him strongly; yet I know A way, if it take right, in spite of fortune, Will bring me off again. What’s this? “To th’ Pope”? The letter, as I live, with all the business I writ to ’s Holiness. Nay then, farewell! I have touched the highest point of all my greatness, And from that full meridian of my glory I haste now to my setting. I shall fall Like a bright exhalation in the evening, And no man see me more. Enter to Wolsey, the Dukes of Norfolk and Suffolk, the Earl of Surrey, and the Lord Chamberlain. NORFOLK. Hear the King’s pleasure, Cardinal, who commands you To render up the great seal presently Into our hands, and to confine yourself To Asher House, my Lord of Winchester’s, Till you hear further from his Highness. WOLSEY. Stay. Where’s your commission, lords? Words cannot carry Authority so weighty. SUFFOLK. Who dares cross ’em, Bearing the King’s will from his mouth expressly? WOLSEY. Till I find more than will or words to do it— I mean your malice—know, officious lords, I dare and must deny it. Now I feel Of what coarse metal ye are moulded, envy! How eagerly ye follow my disgraces, As if it fed ye, and how sleek and wanton Ye appear in everything may bring my ruin! Follow your envious courses, men of malice; You have Christian warrant for ’em, and no doubt In time will find their fit rewards. That seal You ask with such a violence, the King, Mine and your master, with his own hand gave me; Bade me enjoy it, with the place and honours, During my life; and, to confirm his goodness, Tied it by letters-patents. Now, who’ll take it? SURREY. The King that gave it. WOLSEY. It must be himself, then. SURREY. Thou art a proud traitor, priest. WOLSEY. Proud lord, thou liest. Within these forty hours Surrey durst better Have burnt that tongue than said so. SURREY. Thy ambition, Thou scarlet sin, robbed this bewailing land Of noble Buckingham, my father-in-law. The heads of all thy brother cardinals, With thee and all thy best parts bound together, Weighed not a hair of his. Plague of your policy! You sent me Deputy for Ireland, Far from his succour, from the King, from all That might have mercy on the fault thou gav’st him, Whilst your great goodness, out of holy pity, Absolved him with an axe. WOLSEY. This, and all else This talking lord can lay upon my credit, I answer is most false. The Duke by law Found his deserts. How innocent I was From any private malice in his end, His noble jury and foul cause can witness. If I loved many words, lord, I should tell you You have as little honesty as honour, That in the way of loyalty and truth Toward the King, my ever royal master, Dare mate a sounder man than Surrey can be, And all that love his follies. SURREY. By my soul, Your long coat, priest, protects you; thou shouldst feel My sword i’ th’ lifeblood of thee else. My lords, Can ye endure to hear this arrogance? And from this fellow? If we live thus tamely, To be thus jaded by a piece of scarlet, Farewell, nobility. Let his Grace go forward And dare us with his cap, like larks. WOLSEY. All goodness Is poison to thy stomach. SURREY. Yes, that goodness Of gleaning all the land’s wealth into one, Into your own hands, Cardinal, by extortion; The goodness of your intercepted packets You writ to the Pope against the King. Your goodness, Since you provoke me, shall be most notorious. My Lord of Norfolk, as you are truly noble, As you respect the common good, the state Of our