# Harisen

The  is a giant paper fan, usually made in a closed fashion. It is most traditionally used as part of a  act, in which the straight man () smacks the funny man () in response to their jokes or idiocy.

In popular culture

The Japanese version of the video game Banjo-Tooie localizes Banjo & Kazooie's collective "Breegull Bash" attack (in which Banjo pulls Kazooie out of his backpack and slams her like a club) as "Harisen Kazooie".
The character Kazuo Kiriyama is given a  in the movie Battle Royale.
Kaname Chidori of the anime Full Metal Panic uses a  that she seems to pull out from hammerspace to stop Sousuke Sagara from doing anything that could injure or kill a civilian in Tokyo; at one point, her  is seen to be extendable and takes up as much space as a matchbox.
In the manga Negima!, character Asuna Kagurazaka wields a giant sword-sized  that later transforms into an enormous single-edged sword.
The character Dr. Eto in the series Nodame Cantabile is known by the nickname "Harisen" because he uses one to punish his students.
In the video game Persona 5, the characters can use an ability called "Harisen Recovery", in which they use a giant  to heal status effects inflicted on fellow party members. 
In the video game series Super Smash Bros. up until Super Smash Bros. Brawl, a large fan (called "" in the Japanese version, but simply "Fan" in the English version) is a usable item. Characters can wield it as a very fast weapon, causing minimal but repeated and nigh-unstoppable damage to enemy characters. The item's trophy in Brawl mentions its origin as a  prop. Additionally, in Super Smash Bros. Ultimate, Banjo & Kazooie's aforementioned "Breegull Bash" attack returns as a part of their moveset, with director Masahiro Sakurai making a remark during a September 2019 presentation for Banjo & Kazooie about the move's Japanese name being "Harisen Kazooie" while also mentioning its original English name.

See also

 Slapstick, a wooden device traditionally used in the West for a similar purpose.

References

External links 

Ventilation fans
Japanese tools
Japanese culture
Practical joke devices
Culture articles needing translation from Japanese Wikipedia
Japanese words and phrases