[Political Economy — Mill — Gutenberg #38194]

consequence, ib. The commerce and manufactures of, have occasioned the improvement and cultivation of the country, 170. _Clergy_, a supply of, provided for, by public and private foundations for their education, 55. Curates worse paid than many mechanics, ib. Of an established religion, why unsuccessful against the teachers of a new religion, 330. Why they persecute their adversaries, ib. The zeal of the inferior clergy of the church of Rome, how kept alive, ib. Utility of ecclesiastical establishments, 331. How connected with the civil magistrate, ib., 332. Unsafe for the civil magistrate to differ with them, 334. Must be managed without violence, ib., 335. Of the church of Rome, one great army cantoned over Europe, ib., 336. Their power similar to that of the temporal barons during the feudal monkish ages, ib. How the power of the Romish clergy declined, 337. Evils attending allowing parishes to elect their own ministers, 339. _Clothing_, more plentiful than food in uncultivated countries, 68. The materials for, the first articles rude nations have to offer, ib. _Coal_ must generally be cheaper than wood to gain the preference for fuel, 70. The price of, how reduced, ib. The exportation of, subjected to a duty higher than the prime cost of, at the pit, 273. The cheapest of all fuel, 370. The tax on absurdly regulated, ib. _Coal mines_, their different degrees of fertility, 70. When fertile, are sometimes unprofitable by situation, ib. The proportion of rent generally paid for, ib., 71. The machinery necessary to, expensive, 112. _Coal trade_ from Newcastle to London employs more shipping than all the other carrying trade of England, 153. _Cochin China_, remarks on the principal article of cultivation there, 66. _Coin_, stamped, the origin and peculiar advantages of, in commerce, 11. The different species of, in different ages and countries, ib. Causes of the alterations in the value of, ib., 12, 13, 14. How the standard coin of different nations came to be of different metals, 16. A reform in the English coinage suggested, 19. Silver, consequences attending the debasement of, 82. Coinage of France and Britain examined, 193. Why coin is privately melted down, 225. The mint chiefly employed to keep up the quantity thus diminished, ib. A duty to pay the coinage would preserve money from being melted or counterfeited, ib. Standard of the gold coin in France, ib. How a seignorage on coin would operate, 226. A tax upon coinage is advanced by every body, and finally paid by nobody, ib. A revenue lost by government defraying the expense of coinage, 227. Amount of the annual coinage before the late reformation of the gold coin, ib. The law for the encouragement of, founded on prejudice, ib. Consequences of raising the denomination as an expedient to facilitate the payment of public debts, 395. Adulteration of, 397. _Colbert_, M., the policy of his commercial regulations disputed, 189, 275. His character, 275. _Colleges_, cause of the depreciation of their money rents inquired into, 14. The endowments of, from whence they generally arise, 318. Whether they have in general answered the purposes of their institution, ib. These endowments have diminished the necessity of application in the teachers, 319. The privileges of graduates by residence, and charitable foundation of scholarships, injurious to collegiate education, 320. Discipline of, ib. _Colliers_ and _Coal-heavers_, their high earnings accounted for, 43. _Colonies_, new, the natural progress of, 38. Modern, the commercial advantages derived from them, 183. Ancient, on what principles founded, 227, 228. Ancient Grecian colonies not retained under subjection to the parent states, ib. Distinction between the Roman and Greek colonies, 228. Circumstances that led to the establishment of European colonies in the East Indies and America, ib. The East Indies discovered by Vasco de Gama, 229. The West, Indies discovered by Columbus, ib. Gold the object of the first Spanish enterprises there, 230. And of all those of all other European nations, 231. Causes of the prosperity of new colonies, ib. Rapid progress of the ancient Greek colonies, 232. The Roman colonies slow in improvement, ib. The remoteness of America and the West Indies greatly in favour of the European colonies there, ib. Review of the British American colonies, 234. Expense of the civil establishments in British America, 235. Ecclesiastical government, ib. General view of the restraints laid upon the trade of the European colonies, 236. The trade of the British colonies, how regulated, ib. The different kinds of non-enumerated commodities specified, 237. Enumerated commodities, 238. Restraints upon their manufactures, ib. Indulgences granted them by Britain, 239. Were free in every other respect except as to their foreign trade, 240. Little credit due to the policy of Europe from the success of the colonies, 242. Throve by the disorder and injustice of the European governments, ib. Have contributed to augment the industry of all the countries of Europe, 243. Exclusive privileges of trade a dead weight upon all these exertions both in Europe and America, ib. Have in general been a source of expense instead of revenue to their mother countries, 244. Have only benefited their mother countries by the exclusive trade carried on with them, ib. Consequences of the navigation act, 245. The advantage of the colony trade to Britain estimated, 247. A gradual relaxation of the exclusive commerce recommended, 250. Events which have prevented Britain from sensibly feeling the loss of the colony trade, ib. The effects of the colony trade, and the monopoly of that trade, distinguished, ib. To maintain a monopoly, the principal end of the dominion Great Britain assumes over the colonies, 254. Amount of the ordinary peace establishment of, ib. The two late wars Britain sustained, colony wars, to support a monopoly, ib. Two modes by which they might be taxed, 255. Their assemblies not likely to tax them, ib. Taxes by parliamentary requisition as little likely to be raised, 256. Representatives of, might he seated into the British parliament with good effect, 257. Answer to objections against American representation, 258. The interest of the consumer in Britain sacrificed to that of the producer in raising an empire in America, 274. _Columbus_, the motive that led to his discovery of Americas, 229. Why he gave the name of Indies to the islands he discovered, ib. His triumphal exhibition of their productions, 230. _Columella_, his instructions for fencing a kitchen garden, 64. Advises the planting of vineyards, 65. _Commerce_, the different common standards or mediums made use of to facilitate the exchange of commodities in the early stages of, 10. Origin of money, ib. Definition of the term value, 12. Treaties of, though advantageous to the merchants and manufacturers of the favoured countries, necessarily, disadvantageous to those of the favouring country, 222. Translation of the commercial treaty between England and Portugal, concluded in 1703, by Mr. Methuen, 223. Restraints laid upon the European colonies in America, 236. The present splendour of the mercantile system owing to the discovery and colonization of America, 259. Review of the plan by which it proposes to enrich a country, 266. The interest of the consumer constantly sacrificed to that of the producer, 274. See _Agriculture_, _Banks_, _Capital_, _Manufactures_, _Merchant_, _Money_, _Stock_, _Trade_, &c. _Commodities_, the barter of, insufficient for the mutual supply of the wants of mankind, 10. Metals found to be the best medium to facilitate the exchange of, ib. Labour an invariable standard for the value of, 14. Real and nominal prices of, distinguished, ib. Component parts of the prices of, explained and illustrated, 21. Natural and market prices of, distinguished and how regulated, 23. The ordinary proportion between the value of two commodities, not necessarily the same as between the quantities of them commonly in the market, 89. The price of rude produce, how affected by the advance of wealth and improvement, 91, 92. Foreign are primarily purchased with the produce of domestic industry, 151. When advantageously exported in a rude state, even by a foreign capital, 156. The quantity of, in every country, naturally regulated by the demand, 176. Wealth in goods, and in money, compared, 177. Exportation of, to a proper market, always attended with more profit than that of gold and silver, 179. The natural advantages of countries in particular productions sometimes not possible to struggle against, 185. _Company_, mercantile, incapable of consulting their true interests when they become sovereigns, 264. An exclusive company a public nuisance, 265. Trading, how first formed, 307. Regulated and joint-stock companies distinguished, ib. Regulated companies in Great Britain specified, ib., 308. Are useless, 308. Constant view of such companies, ib. Forts and garrisons, why never maintained by regulated companies, 309. The nature of joint-stock companies explained, 310, 311, 316. A monopoly necessary to enable a joint-stock company to carry on a foreign trade, 317. What kind of joint-stock companies need no exclusive privileges, ib. Joint-stock companies, why well adapted to the trade of banking, ib. The trade of insurance may be carried on successfully by a joint-stock company, ib. Also, inland navigations, and the supply of water to a great city, ib. Ill success of joint-stock companies in other undertakings, 318. _Competition_, the effect of, in the purchase of commodities, 23. Among the venders, ib., 37. _Concordat_ in France, its object, 337. _Congress_, American, its strength owing to the important characters it confers on the members of it, 257. _Conversion price_, in the payment of rents in Scotland, explained, 76, 77. _Copper_, the standard measure of value among the ancient Romans, 16. Is no legal tender in England, ib. _Cori_, the largest quadruped on the island of St. Domingo, described, 229. _Corn_, the raising of, in different countries, not subject to the same degree of rivalship, as manufactures, 3, 4. Is the best standard for reserved rents, 14. The price of, how regulated, 15. The price of, the best standard for comparing the different values of particular commodities at different times and places, 16. The three component parts in the price of, 21. Is dearer in Scotland than in England, 31. Its value compared with that of butcher's meat, in the different periods of agriculture, 62. Compared with silver, 75. Circumstances in a historical view of the prices of corn that have misled writers in treating of the value of silver at different periods, 76. Is always a more accurate measure of value than any other commodity, 79. Why dearer in great towns than in the country, 80. Why dearer in some rich commercial countries, as Holland and Genoa, ib. Rose in its nominal price on the discovery of the American mines, 81. And in consequence of the civil war under king Charles I., ib. And in consequence of the bounty on the exportation of, 82. Tendency of the bounty examined, 83. Chronological table of the prices of, 108. The least profitable article of growth in the British West Indian