[Political Economy — Mill — Gutenberg #38194]

to call upon his subjects for extraordinary aids, ib. _Kings_ and their ministers the greatest spendthrifts in a country, 149. L _Labour_, the fund which originally supplies every nation with its annual consumption, 1. How the proportion between labour and consumption in regulated, ib. The different kinds of industry seldom dealt impartially with by any nation, 2. The division of labour considered, ib., 3. This division increases the quantity of work, 4. Instances in illustration, 5. From what principle the division of labour originates, 6. The divisibility of governed by the market, 8. Labour the real measure of the exchangeable value of commodities, 12. Different kinds of, not easily estimated by immediate comparison, 13. Is compared by the intermediate standard of money, ib. In an invariable standard for the value of commodities, 14. Has a real and a nominal price, ib. The quantity of labour employed on different objects, the only rule for exchanging them in the rude stages of society, 20. Difference between the wages of labour and profits on stock in manufactures, ib. The whole labour of a country never exerted, 22. Is in every instance suited to the demand, 24. The effect of extraordinary calls for, 25. The deductions made from the produce of labour employed upon land, 27. Why dearer in North America than in England, 29. Is cheap in countries that are stationary, ib. The demand for, would continually decrease, in a declining country, 30. The province of Bengal cited as an instance, ib. Is not badly paid for in Great Britain, ib., 31. An increasing demand for, favourable to population, 33. That of freemen cheaper to the employers than that of slaves, ib. The money price of, how regulated, 36. Is liberally rewarded in new colonies, 38. Common labour and skilful labour distinguished, 42. The free circulation of, from one employment to another, obstructed by corporation laws, 57. The unequal prices of, in different places, probably owing to the law of settlements, 59. Can always procure subsistence on the spot, where it is purchased, 61. The money price of, in different countries, how governed, 80. Is set into motion by stock employed for profit, 106. The division of, depends on the accumulation of stock, 111. Machines to facilitate labour advantageous to society, 116. Productive and unproductive distinguished, 135. Various orders of men specified whose labour in unproductive, 136. Unproductive labourers all maintained by revenue, ib. The price of, how raised by the increase of the national capital, 145. Its price, though nominally raised, may continue the same, 146. Is liberally rewarded in new colonies, 231. Of artificers and manufacturers, never adds any value to the whole amount of the rude produce of the land, according to the French agricultural system of political economy, 277. This doctrine shewn to be erroneous, 281. The productive powers of labour, how to be improved, ib. _Labourers_, useful and productive, everywhere proportioned to the capital stock on which they are employed, 1, 2. Share the produce of their labour, in most cases, with the owners of the stock on which they are employed, 20. Their wages a continued subject of contest between them and their masters, 28. Are seldom successful in their outrageous combinations, ib. The sufficiency of their earnings a point not easily determined, ib. Their wages sometimes raised by increase of work, ib. Their demands limited by the funds destined for payment, 29. Are continually wanted in North America, ib. Miserable condition of those in China, ib., 30. Are not ill paid in Great Britain, ib., 31. If able to maintain their families in dear years, they must be at their ease in plentiful seasons, ib. A proof furnished in the complaints of their luxury, 33. Why worse paid than artificers, 42. Their interests, strictly connected with the interests of the society, 106. Labour the only source of their revenue, 112. Effects of a life of labour on the understandings of the poor, 327. _Land_, the demand of rent for, how founded, 21. The rent paid enters into the greater part of all commodities, ib. Generally produces more food than will maintain the labour necessary to bring it to market, 61. Good roads and navigable canals equalize difference of situation, 62. That employed in raising food for men and cattle regulates the rent of all other cultivated land, 64, 67. Can clothe and lodge more than it can feed while uncultivated, and the contrary when improved, 68. The culture of land producing food creates a demand for the produce of other lands, 73. Produces by agriculture a much greater quantity of vegetable than of animal food, 79. The full improvement of, requires a stock of cattle to supply manure, 93. Cause and effect of the diminution of cottagers, 95. Signs of the land being completely improved, 96. The whole annual produce, or the price of it, naturally divides itself into rent, wages, and profit of stock, 106. The usual price of, depends on the common rate of interest for money, 147. The profits of cultivation exaggerated by projectors, 154. The cultivation of, naturally preferred to trade and manufactures, on equal terms, 155. Artificers necessary to the cultivation of, 156. Was all appropriated, though not cultivated, by the northern destroyers of the Roman empire, 157. Origin of the law of primogeniture under the feudal government, ib. Entails, 158. Obstacles to the improvement of land under feudal proprietors, ib. Feudal tenures, 159, 160. Feudal taxation, 161. The improvement of land checked in France, by the taille, ib. Occupiers of, labour under great disadvantages, ib. Origin of long leases of, 169. Small proprietors the best improvers of, 170. Small purchasers of, cannot hope to raise fortunes by cultivation, ib., 171. Tenures of, in the British American colonies, 235. Is the most permanent source of revenue, 345. The rent of a whole country not equal to the ordinary levy upon the people, ib. The revenue from, proportioned not to the rent, but to the produce, 346. Reasons for selling the crown lands, ib. The land tax of Great Britain considered, 348. An improved land-tax suggested, 349. A land-tax, however equally rated by a general survey, will soon become unequal, 352. Tithes a very unequal tax, ib. Tithes discourage improvement, ib. _Landholders_, why frequently inattentive to their own particular interests, 106. How they contribute to the annual production of the land, according to the French agricultural system of political economy, 275. Should be encouraged to cultivate a part of their own land, 350. _Latin language_, how it became an essential part of university education, 321. _Law_, the language of, how corrupted, 302. Did not improve into a science in ancient Greece, 325. Remarks on the courts of justice in Greece and Rome, ib., 326. _Law_, Mr. account of his banking scheme for the improvement of Scotland, 130. _Lawyers_, why amply rewarded for their labour, 44. Great amount of their fees, 300. _Leases_, the various usual conditions of, 349, 350. _Leather_, restrictions on the exportation of unmanufactured, 271. _Lectures_ in universities frequently improper for instruction, 320. _Levity_, the vices of, ruinous to the common people, and therefore severely censured by them, 332, 333. _Liberty_, three duties only necessary for a sovereign to attend to for supporting a system of, 286. _Lima_, computed number of inhabitants in that city, 233. _Linen manufacture_, narrow policy of the master manufacturers in, 266. _Literature_, the rewards of, reduced by competition, 56. Was more profitable in ancient Greece, ib. The cheapness of literary education an advantage to the public, 57. _Loans of money_, the nature of, analysed, 144. The extensive operation of, ib. _Locke_, Mr. remarks on his opinion of the difference between the market and mint prices of silver bullion, 18. His account of the cause of lowering the rates of interest for money, examined, 145. His distinction between money and moveable goods, 173. _Lodgings_, cheaper in London than in any other capital city in Europe, 49. _Logic_, the origin and employment of, 322. _Lotteries_, the true nature of, and the causes of their success, explained, 45. _Luck_, instances of the universal reliance mankind have on it, 45. _Lutherans_, origin and principles of that sect, 339. _Luxuries_, distinguished from necessaries, 368. Operation of taxes on, ib. The good and bad properties of taxes on, 380. M _Macedon_, Philip of, the superiority that discipline gave his army over that of his enemies, 294. _Machines_ for facilitating mechanical operations, how invented and improved, 4, 5. Are advantageous to every society, 116. _Madder_, the cultivation of, long confined to Holland by English tithes, 353. _Madeira wines_, how introduced into North America and Britain, 204. _Malt_, reasons for transferring the duties on brewing to, 378. Distillery, how to prevent smuggling, 377. _Manufactures_, the great advantages resulting from a division of labour in, 3. Instances in illustration, 5. Why profits increase in the higher stages of, 21. Of what parts the gain consists, 22. The private advantages of secrets in, 25. Peculiar advantages of soil and situation, ib. Monopolies, ib. Corporation privileges, 26. The deductions made from labour employed on manufactures, 27. Inquiry how far they are affected by seasons of plenty and scarcity, 35. Are not no materially affected by circumstances in the country where they are carried on, as in the places where they are consumed, ib. New manufactures generally give higher wages than old ones, 48. Are more profitably carried on in towns than in the open country, 53. By what means the prices of, are reduced while the society continues improving, 103. Instances in hardware, ib. Instances in the woollen manufacture, 104. What fixed capitals are required to carry on particular manufactures, 112. Manufactures for distant sale, why not established in North America, 156. Why preferred to foreign trade for the employment of a capital, ib. Motives to the establishment of manufactures for distant sale, 165. How shifted from one country to another, ib., 166. Natural circumstances which contribute to the establishment of them, ib. Their effect on the government and manners of a country, 167. The independence of artisans explained, 169. May flourish amidst the ruin of a country, and begin to decay on the return of its prosperity, 180. Inquiry how far manufactures might be affected by a freedom of trade, 190. British restraints on manufactures in North America, 238, 239. The exportation of instruments in, prohibited, 273. By the principal support of foreign trade, 283. Require a more extensive market than rude produce of the land, ib. Were exercised by slaves in ancient Greece, 284. High prices of, in Greece and at Rome, 285. False policy to check manufactures in order to promote agriculture, ib. In Great Britain, why principally fixed in the coal countries, 370. _Manufacturers_, those thrown out of one business can transfer their industry to colateral employments, 190. A spirit of combination