Entrepreneurship/VC Research

Title: STATE AND DEVELOPMENT TRENDS OF THE VENTURE CAPITAL INDUSTRY

Abstract:
n innovation ecosystem is actively developing in Ukraine, many startups appear, there are many acceleration programs, but there are no venture investment mechanisms. It is necessary to learn from the world experience and develop the venture capital market in Ukraine.The paper highlights the main prerequisites for the emergence of venture investment in the world. Weneed to develop our own venture financing mechanisms and take into account the economic conditions, regulatory framework, socio-cultural environment and the state of the economies of countries. The main principles of venture investment have been determined.The features of attracting investments in innovative activities from business-angels, venture investors and venture funds have been investigated. In the early stages, a startup can attract investment from businessangels. Business-angels are usually former successful startupers, they have experience in this area. At later stages, the startup receives investments from a venture fund, which is created by a group of investors. They form a common investment portfolio and diversify risks. A strong, balanced and motivated team is most attractive to venture capitalists.The article carefully describes the content of the main stages / rounds of venture capital investment. The structure of the total number of startups and unicorn companies in different industries in 2021 is described.The statistics of the average size of transactions by stages of venture capital investment and the dynamics of venture capital investments in startups at different stages in the United States for the period from 2013 to 2021 are presented.An analysis of the state and development trends of startups for the first half of 2021 in the USA, Europe and Asia is presented. The most attractive industries for venture capital funds are indicated. It was noted that the size of venture investments has now significantly increased, but at a later stage.The venture capital industry in Ukraine is just developing, but it is already showing good results. In recent years, there has been a stable growth of the Ukrainian venture capital industry. The results obtained indicate that the Ukrainian venture capital industry is in line with global trends.The paper presents proposals for the development of venture capital investment in Ukraine, which include raising the awareness of potential innovators and startupers, developing an innovation ecosystem, building a system for protecting intellectual property and protecting the rights of owners and investors, creating a modern securities market, improving the legal framework for obtaining status of a countryattractive to venture capitalists.Keywords: innovator, startup, venture investment, business acceleration, innovation ecosystem.