# Jikuu Senshi Spielban

is a Japanese tokusatsu television series, part of the Metal Hero Series franchise created by Toei Co. Ltd. and aired from  to . Spielban'''s footage was used for Saban’s live-action series, VR Troopers.

For distribution purposes, Toei Company refers to this television series as Spielvan.

Plot
The Waller Empire destroys the planet Clin in search of water for its deity. Two Clinian children, Spielban and Diana, escape to Earth aboard the Grand Nasca. The two grow up during the long journey and don High Tech Crystal Suits to defeat the Waller who have come to Earth in search of more water. Spielban must avenge his dead mother Anna and his homeworld, and find his missing father Ben and older sister Helen. Unknown to Spielban at the start of the series his father and sister have been made members of the Waller against their will.

Characters

Grand Nasca crew

Spielban's group is based on the super dimensional mothership Grand Nasca, the source of Spielban and Diana's armor and vehicles. Diana also pilots it to see above the battlefield while Spielban is in Gaios. Its projectile weapons are Nasca Missiles and Nasca Rockets. It also transforms into the Big Bang Cannon, a bazooka-type weapon that Spielban can use. It can also go into "Combat Formation", where it becomes a giant robot that performs the "Nasca Hyper Crush" where it stomps General Deathzero's tank vehicles, shoot beams from its eyes (the Excel Beam), and uses "Knuckle Bomber", where it punches General Deathzero's fighter planes in mid-air.
 : Anna and Ben's younger son and Helen's younger brother. A 20-year-old man from the planet Clin, he assumed the alias of  while on Earth. When he shouts "Kesshou!" ("Crystallize"), the Grand Nasca showers "Clin Metal Super Corpuscles" upon him, which crystallize to form the silver, black and red suit around his body in 10 microseconds. Spielban's primary weapon is a sword which then becomes the Twin Blade, a double-edged laser lance used to destroy the mechanoids and lifeforms with his "Arc Impulse" attack.
 : Marine's only daughter. She is 18 years old and Spielban's partner fighting as  by performing the same techniques as Spielban to activate her own white and red suit. When she shouts "Kesshou!" ("Crystallize"), the Grand Nasca showers "Clin Metal Super Corpuscles" upon her, which crystallize to form the white red suit around her body in 10 microseconds. Like Spielban, Diana is quite capable in a fight both in and out of uniform and carries with her the Lady Sniper which acts as her own personal weapon. She primarily serves as a backup for Spielban when they battle the mechanoids or when the Waller send out assault vehicles. There have been times when the Waller have turned their attention towards her once they recognized how much of a threat to them she can be. A running gag on the show was that she would use her charm and sex appeal on the Kinclons, distracting them from their duties while she made her move. Another gag is that she sometimes uses her rear end to attack the Kinclons, which apparently knocks them out cold.
 : Anna and Ben's daughter and Spielban's older sister is 22 and was captured by the Waller Empire when she was only a child. She was forced to witness Waller turning her father into Dr. Bio. Later, Dr. Bio was instructed to do the very same to her as well, converting her into  with a secondary persona that activates via remote control. Helen is constantly kept away from her brother fearing she would turn into Hellvira and kill him. When trying to stop Spielban and Diana from killing Dr. Bio her secret as Hellvira is revealed as well as revealing Dr. Bio's identity as Speilban's father. After Pandora's trap almost kills her, Bio places the comatose Helen in a protective tube. When Diana learns that Helen survived, she and Spielban save her, as Dr. Bio destroys the remote control, deactivating the Hellvira persona. Soon after, Helen joins her brother in the fight against the Waller as . When she shouts "Kesshou!" ("Crystallize"), Helen is equipped with a high-tech crystal armor identical to Diana's and is and armed with the double-sided Helen Cutter.

Arsenal
 Super Dimensional Tank Gaios: A small tank-like vehicle piloted by Spielban. Armed with Gaios Rockets, Gaios Missiles and a Gaios Laser, it is also able to remove its cockpit and turn into "Jet Gaios" for aerial combat and "Drill Gaios" for digging underground. The Jet Gaios fires the Gaios Beam.
 Hoverian: A hover-craft vehicle piloted by Spielban which turns into a motorcycle and can fire Hoverian Lasers and perform the Hoverian Rush.

Others
 Anna: Spielban and Helen's mother chose Spielban and Diana to survive by escaping in the Grand Nasca shortly before the destruction of the Clin mothership. She died but was restored to life in the alternate future timeline in which the Waller Empire never existed.
 Marine: Diana's mother who died when the Clin detonated their own mothership but was restored to life in the alternate future timeline in which the Waller Empire never existed.
 Space Swordsman Teacher (ep 14 & 31): A hologram generated by the Grand Nasca's computers to train Spielban in swordsmanship. Later trains Helen/Helen Lady in the same capacity.
 Daigorou Koyama: Owner of the invention shop "Edison". He claims to be a genius and comes up with various gadgets that never quite work out. Was once tricked into building a robot for the Waller.
 Miwa Koyama: Daigorou's younger sister. She helps out at "Edison" but is sick of Daigorou's inventions that never sell.

Waller Empire
The  is the antagonistic group in Spielban. From their winged turtle-like mobile fortress called the Waller Castle Gamedeath, they search for water throughout the universe on the notion that they are sustaining the life .

 : Originally a giant Starfish that needs vast amounts of water to survive, Pandora is the leader of Waller who conceived the Waller deity to establish her Empire while instilling fear in her subordinates. In the two-part series finale, after her other followers have died, Pandora personally fights Spielban while splitting into the forms of  and . Thought to have been destroyed, Pandora endures and reveals herself as Waller's true leader when she reverted Dr. Bio to Ben for his attempted to sabotage the Gamedeath in her absence. Pandora once more splits into her two forms to battle Spielban's group before merging into a more powerful  to finish them off. But Ben injects Pandora with a virus that is harming her at a cellular level, allowing Spielban to kill her as she reverts to her natural form.
 : He claims to be a descendant of Waller, which therefore makes him a relative of Pandora. He was summoned from the 23rd century, by a talking gerbil created by Dr. Bio's experiments, from the life of a street beggar to help Pandora in the present. The gerbil told him that his life as a beggar was caused by Spielban. Though he treats his followers and allies as somewhat disposable, he remains eternally loyal to his Queen. Guillotine kept the talking gerbil for a pet, who is later left to Pandora, after he is rifted and destroyed. He dislikes Youki from the start, sensing that this new general will betray the Waller. Guillotine is dressed similarly to a rebel biker. He falls into a dimensional rift and returns as a ghost. As a ghostly form he invades the Grand Nasca and attempts to torture Helen. In this form his right arm has been replaced by a small, living, snake-like monster, which he could launch at the heroes. He was eventually destroyed by Spielban with the help of the Grand Nasca's energy. His gerbil was later contained and destroyed by Dr. Ben during the finale.
 : Leader of Waller's Battle Mechanoids he is a black-armored android who is programmed with a knowledge of all tactics. He can transform into the Deathzero Torpedo, a black headed missile that is launched from a catapult. He transforms into this form twice during the series (Episodes 24 and 42), which coincidentally were the only two times he battled Spielban himself. It was strongly hinted that Deathzero was attracted to Diana. He later challenges Spielban to a second battle (both inside and outside of his tank), now having become/been promoted to Super General and powered with a 10,000 volt cylinder given to him by Pandora. He is destroyed by Spielban soon afterwards, with Spielban using his Arc Impulse.
 : Formerly Spielban's father Doctor Ben, he was captured by Deathzero and converted into an inhuman being to save the Waller Empire as leader of the Biohumans and Battle-Lifeforms he creates with Lifeform Modification Surgery. He was also protective of Helen and constantly watched over her like a father would. Bio can unleash vine-like appendages from his arms and wields a giant sword in battle. In his first and only battle against Spielban he mutated and ended up in a Bioroid monster form, Bioroid Bio (ep 21 & 30). Bioroid Bio's abilities included transforming into plant life and/or slime and su