Entrepreneurship/VC Research

Title: Equity Crowdfunding: A Market for Lemons?

Abstract:
CROWDFUNDING 563 to fill a funding gap for startups that cannot attract other financing, or are too early in their life cycles to attract angels and VCs. 10 This Article examines the progression in entrepreneurial finance from: (1) traditional angel/VC operations through personal networks; to (2) online soliciting of accredited investors (JOBS Act Title II); to (3) full-blown crowdfunding to anyone who wishes to invest in a startup (JOBS Act Title III). 11This Article"s first main contribution is to show that Title II sites are succeeding, and to explain why.Its second main contribution is to theorize about how Title III might play out when implemented, and to suggest legal reforms to increase its chances for success.The Article begins by defining -crowdfunding and distinguishing its two main types.Crowdfunding can be equity-based, meaning investors receive stock in a business in exchange for their money, or it can be non-equity based, when people either donate funds or obtain rewards in exchange for their contributions. 12From a legal perspective, equity crowdfunding is the far more interesting of the two types and is the type of crowdfunding that this Article focuses on. 13 10.See C. Steven Bradford, Crowdfunding and the Federal Securities Laws, 2012 COLUM.BUS.L. REV. 1, 101 (2012) (noting the -unavailability of traditional sources of small business financing for new startups); Thomas G. James, Far from the Maddening Crowd: Does the JOBS Act Provide Meaningful Redress to Small Investors for Securities Fraud in Connection with Crowdfunding Offerings?, 54 B.C. L. REV.1767, 1787 (2013) (-[C]rowdfunding fills a necessary funding gap for startups seeking needed capital . . ..).But see Jill E. Fisch, Can Internet Offerings Bridge the Small Business Capital Barrier?, 2 J. SMALL & EMERGING BUS.L. 57, 63 (1998) (-The inability of small businesses to find adequate capital may not indicate a market failure, however.The high failure rate of small businesses demonstrates the risky nature of small business investment . . ..).11.In my estimation, which is consistent with the nomenclature in the JOBS Act, Title II is a step toward crowdfunding but is not actually crowdfunding.Title III, on the other hand, is crowdfunding and is the more controversial and problematic of the JOBS Act changes.See Kendall Almerico, Want To Make Equity Crowdfunding Legal? 3 Experts Sound Off, ENTREPRENEUR (Sept.4