Entrepreneurship/VC Research

Title: Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) facing an evolving technological era: a systematic literature review on the adoption of technologies in SMEs

Abstract:
Purpose This paper aims to map the influential concepts on technology adoption in Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) through conducting a systematic literature review and finding a better understanding of the current body of knowledge. Design/methodology/approach A systematic literature review approach is taken here, which includes the following steps: Determination of keywords and strings, selection of databases, setting inclusion and exclusion criteria, conducting the search in chosen databases over a specific period of time. This process has led to the final count of 349 peer-reviewed articles being studied, and the results are analyzed quantitatively and qualitatively. Findings As a result of the study, 11 categories of influential concepts on technology adoption are identified by reviewing literature from the past decade. This article indicates how fragmented the literature is and how it concentrates on studying the impact of only a limited number of categories of concepts. The scatted frameworks (theoretical and conceptual) and weak application of the used theories found in this research also highlight the need for the development of a framework that looks into technology adoption as a dynamic process due to the dynamic nature of new technologies today. Research limitations/implications Based on the above findings, future research avenues are to look into technology adoption from a process perspective, to dig into less researched influencing concepts such as infrastructure, regulations, strategy and resources and their role in adoption of technology in SMEs as well as development of a framework for technology adoption that is aligned with these elements. Practical implications Practitioners and policymakers will benefit from finding a helicopter view of the barriers and supporting factors throughout their technology adoption journey. The knowledge they gain from this study will better prepare them in building tools they need for adopting technology in their organizations and provide an in-depth insight to what elements can affect their journey. Originality/value This review provides an insight into the current body of knowledge on the topic, which researchers can benefit from constructing an in-depth understanding of the state of research as well as influencing concepts of technology adoption in SMEs. Moreover, it adds value in building up the knowledge of technology adoption in today's dynamic world of digitalization.