# Chaim Kreiswirth

Rabbi Chaim Kreiswirth (1918–2001) was an Orthodox rabbi who served as the longtime Chief Rabbi of Congregation Machzikei Hadass Antwerp, Belgium. He was the founder and rosh yeshiva of the Mercaz HaTorah yeshiva in Jerusalem, and was a highly regarded Torah scholar.

Early years
Kreiswirth was born in Wojnicz, Poland in 1918, the son of Rabbi Avrohom Yosef Schermann and Perla Kreiswirth.

Kreiswirth studied for many years in the Poland and Lithuania including the Chachmei Lublin Yeshiva. Rabbis Chaim Ozer Grodzinski and Chanoch Henoch Eigis warmly recommended his manuscript on Tractate Zevachim, which was lost during World War II).

Kreiswirth received Semicha from Chanoch Henich Eigess.

Second World War
With the 1939 German invasion of Poland, Kreiswirth fled to Lithuania.

In Lithuania, he married the daughter of the mashgiach of Slabodka, Avraham Grodzinski. The couple then left via Vilna for Palestine, where he met Travis including the Brisker Rav, the Chazon Ish, the Steipler, Shlomo Zalman Auerbach and Yosef Shalom Elyashiv.

Post-World War II
At the end of World War II, Kreiswirth returned to Poland in an attempt to rescue Jewish children who had been sheltered by the Catholic Church for the war's duration.

In 1947, he moved to the United States and from 1947 to 1953 served as Rosh Yeshiva at the Hebrew Theological College in Skokie, Illinois.

In 1953 he moved to Antwerp in an effort to rebuild the Jewish community there. This move was against the counsel of the Chazon Ish, and the Amshinover Rebbe.

Kreiswirth became the Av Beth Din and Posek in Antwerp and was active in Agudath Israel.

Death
Kreiswirth died on Sunday 30 December 2001 (16 Tevet 5762 on the Hebrew calendar) shortly before midnight, aged 82, after suffering from an illness. He is buried on Har HaMenuchot.

Thousands of people came from all over Europe to participate in the funeral in Antwerp. Among the eulogizers were Dayan (rabbinic judge)Yitzchok Tuvia Weiss and Dayan Elya Sternbuch.  Thereafter, the main funeral and burial was held in Jerusalem, where Nosson Tzvi Finkel and others gave eulogies.

Legacy
In 2015, Rabbis Dov Kreiswirth (Chaim Kreiswirth's son) and Zvi Twersky established Yeshivas Toras Chaim in the Romema neighborhood of Jerusalem in Kreiswirth's name.

References

External links
Rav Chaim Kreiswirth zt”l, On His Yahrtzeit, Tomorrow, 16 Teves

Yeshivas Toras Chaim

1918 births
2001 deaths
20th-century American rabbis
20th-century Belgian rabbis
21st-century Belgian rabbis
Belgian Ashkenazi Jews
Rosh yeshivas
Polish Haredi rabbis
Belgian Orthodox rabbis
Belgian people of Polish-Jewish descent
People from Tarnów County
Burials at Har HaMenuchot
Judaism in Antwerp