# Banach space

In mathematics, more specifically in functional analysis, a Banach space (pronounced ) is a complete normed vector space. Thus, a Banach space is a vector space with a metric that allows the computation of vector length and distance between vectors and is complete in the sense that a Cauchy sequence of vectors always converges to a well-defined limit that is within the space.

Banach spaces are named after the Polish mathematician Stefan Banach, who introduced this concept and studied it systematically in 1920–1922 along with Hans Hahn and Eduard Helly. 
Maurice René Fréchet was the first to use the term "Banach space" and Banach in turn then coined the term "Fréchet space".
Banach spaces originally grew out of the study of function spaces by Hilbert, Fréchet, and Riesz earlier in the century. Banach spaces play a central role in functional analysis. In other areas of analysis, the spaces under study are often Banach spaces.

Definition

A Banach space is a complete normed space  
A normed space is a pair 
 consisting of a vector space  over a scalar field  (where  is commonly  or ) together with a distinguished 
norm  Like all norms, this norm induces a translation invariant 
distance function, called the canonical or (norm) induced metric, defined for all vectors  by

This makes  into a metric space  
A sequence  is called  or  or  if for every real  there exists some index  such that

whenever  and  are greater than  
The normed space  is called a  and the canonical metric  is called a  if  is a , which by definition means for every Cauchy sequence  in  there exists some  such that

where because  this sequence's convergence to  can equivalently be expressed as:

The norm  of a normed space  is called a  if  is a Banach space.

L-semi-inner product

For any normed space  there exists an L-semi-inner product  on  such that  for all ; in general, there may be infinitely many L-semi-inner products that satisfy this condition. L-semi-inner products are a generalization of inner products, which are what fundamentally distinguish Hilbert spaces from all other Banach spaces. This shows that all normed spaces (and hence all Banach spaces) can be considered as being generalizations of (pre-)Hilbert spaces.

Characterization in terms of series

The vector space structure allows one to relate the behavior of Cauchy sequences to that of converging series of vectors. 
A normed space  is a Banach space if and only if each absolutely convergent series in  converges in

Topology

The canonical metric  of a normed space  induces the usual metric topology  on  which is referred to as the canonical or norm induced topology. 
Every normed space is automatically assumed to carry this Hausdorff topology, unless indicated otherwise. 
With this topology, every Banach space is a Baire space, although there exist normed spaces that are Baire but not Banach. The norm  is always a continuous function with respect to the topology that it induces.

The open and closed balls of radius  centered at a point  are, respectively, the sets 
 
Any such ball is a convex and bounded subset of  but a compact ball/neighborhood exists if and only if  is a finite-dimensional vector space. 
In particular, no infinite–dimensional normed space can be locally compact or have the Heine–Borel property. 
If  is a vector and  is a scalar then 
 
Using  shows that this norm-induced topology is translation invariant, which means that for any  and  the subset  is open (respectively, closed) in  if and only if this is true of its translation  
Consequently, the norm induced topology is completely determined by any neighbourhood basis at the origin. Some common neighborhood bases at the origin include:

where  is a sequence in of positive real numbers that converges to  in  (such as  or  for instance). 
So for example, every open subset  of  can be written as a union 

indexed by some subset  where every  may be picked from the aforementioned sequence  (the open balls can be replaced with closed balls, although then the indexing set  and radii  may also need to be replaced). 
Additionally,  can always be chosen to be countable if  is a , which by definition means that  contains some countable dense subset. 

Homeomorphism classes of separable Banach spaces

All finite–dimensional normed spaces are separable Banach spaces and any two Banach spaces of the same finite dimension are linearly homeomorphic. 
Every separable infinite–dimensional Hilbert space is linearly isometrically isomorphic to the separable Hilbert sequence space  with its usual norm  

The Anderson–Kadec theorem states that every infinite–dimensional separable Fréchet space is homeomorphic to the product space  of countably many copies of  (this homeomorphism need not be a linear map). 
Thus all infinite–dimensional separable Fréchet spaces are homeomorphic to each other (or said differently, their topology is unique up to a homeomorphism). 
Since every Banach space is a Fréchet space, this is also true of all infinite–dimensional separable Banach spaces, including  
In fact,  is even homeomorphic to its own unit   which stands in sharp contrast to finite–dimensional spaces (the Euclidean plane  is not homeomorphic to the unit circle, for instance). 

This pattern in homeomorphism classes extends to generalizations of metrizable (locally Euclidean) topological manifolds known as , which are metric spaces that are around every point, locally homeomorphic to some open subset of a given Banach space (metric Hilbert manifolds and metric Fréchet manifolds are defined similarly). 
For example, every open subset  of a Banach space  is canonically a metric Banach manifold modeled on  since the inclusion map  is an open local homeomorphism. 
Using Hilbert space microbundles, David Henderson showed in 1969 that every metric manifold modeled on a separable infinite–dimensional Banach (or Fréchet) space can be topologically embedded as an  subset of  and, consequently, also admits a unique smooth structure making it into a  Hilbert manifold. 

Compact and convex subsets

There is a compact subset  of  whose convex hull  is  closed and thus also  compact (see this footnote for an example). 
However, like in all Banach spaces, the  convex hull  of this (and every other) compact subset will be compact. But if a normed space is not complete then it is in general  guaranteed that  will be compact whenever  is; an example can even be found in a (non-complete) pre-Hilbert vector subspace of 

As a topological vector space

This norm-induced topology also makes  into what is known as a topological vector space (TVS), which by definition is a vector space endowed with a topology making the operations of addition and scalar multiplication continuous. It is emphasized that the TVS  is  a vector space together with a certain type of topology; that is to say, when considered as a TVS, it is  associated with  particular norm or metric (both of which are "forgotten"). This Hausdorff TVS  is even locally convex because the set of all open balls centered at the origin forms a neighbourhood basis at the origin consisting of convex balanced open sets. This TVS is also , which by definition refers to any TVS whose topology is induced by some (possibly unknown) norm.  Normable TVSs are characterized by being Hausdorff and having a bounded convex neighborhood of the origin. 
All Banach spaces are barrelled spaces, which means that every barrel is neighborhood of the origin (all closed balls centered at the origin are barrels, for example) and guarantees that the Banach–Steinhaus theorem holds. 

Comparison of complete metrizable vector topologies

The open mapping theorem implies that if  and  are topologies on  that make both  and  into complete metrizable TVS (for example, Banach or Fréchet spaces) and if one topology is finer or coarser than the other then they must be equal (that is, if  or  then ).
So for example, if  and  are Banach spaces with topologies  and  and if one of these spaces has some open ball that is also an open subset of the other space (or equivalently, if one of  or  is continuous) then their topologies are identical and their norms are equivalent.

Completeness

Complete norms and equivalent norms

Two norms,  and  on a vector space  are said to be  if they induce the same topology; this happens if and only if there exist positive real numbers  such that  for all  If  and  are two equivalent norms on a vector space  then  is a Banach space if and only if  is a Banach space. 
See this footnote for an example of a continuous norm on a Banach space that is  equivalent to that Banach space's given norm. 
All norms on a finite-dimensional vector space are equivalent and every finite-dimensional normed space is a Banach space.

Complete norms vs complete metrics

A metric  on a vector space  is induced by a norm on  if and only if  is translation invariant and , which means that  for all scalars  and all  in which case the functio