Entrepreneurship/VC Research

Title: Corporate culture: The interview evidence

Abstract:
Culture is given credit for some of the greatest business successes and blamed for some of the biggest failures. Policymakers often point to dysfunctional corporate culture in banking as a first-order contributor to the recent financial crisis.1 Several books identify culture as a key driver of Google's success.2 What is corporate culture? How important is corporate culture? What mechanisms underlie the creation and effectiveness of corporate culture?4 How do other formal institutions (e.g., governance or compensation) reinforce or work against culture? Do companies think their culture is effective and if not, what deters firms from having an effective corporate culture? Are the upside benefits of an effective culture greater than the downside costs of ineffective culture? What aspects of business performance does corporate culture affect? Does culture impact firm value, productivity, corporate risk-taking, growth, M&A, financial and tax reporting, whether employees take a long-run view, and/or corporate ethics? How can corporate culture be measured? We try to answer these questions in multiple ways. First, we surveyed 1348 chief executives and financial officers (CEOs and CFOs, referred to interchangeably as executives or managers) across a wide range of North American public and private firms. The details underlying the survey evidence and an econometric investigation into the effects of culture on business outcomes are reported in an accompanying paper5 by the same four authors that supplement this paper; referred to henceforth as GGHR. Second, the survey contained several open-ended questions. We analyze the text of these questions to enhance our understanding of the survey respondents' views of the corporate culture. Third, we conducted in-depth interviews with business executives representing over 20% of the US equity market capitalization. The purpose of this paper is to discuss the interview evidence and the open-ended responses from the survey. We summarize the survey statistics to provide context for the interviews and open-ended responses. Survey evidence offers a number of insights into corporate culture. Briefly, the survey shows that managers are largely united in believing that corporate culture is one of the most important forces behind value creation and the ultimate success or failure of a firm. The majority of executives consider corporate culture to be a top three value driver at their companies. Almost every officer believes that improving their corporate culture would increase their firm's value. The current CEO is seen as the most influential person responsible for setting the firm's current culture. The interviews offer insight into how other firm policies and practices may reinforce or work against the effectiveness of the culture. Boards affect culture not via active management but primarily via CEO choice. The finance function may influence the culture, especially when it serves an internal governance role by acting as steward of integrity. Incentive compensation and hiring, firing, and promotion decisions also may modify the effectiveness of a firm's culture. Some schemes reinforce the culture by rewarding employees for living the of the culture other schemes that are not with the culture employees to the survey evidence what decisions and are by corporate culture. that corporate culture a on the at the the of and on firm value and on is seen as important in an that most managers would from a culture is with the culture, other managers would on the of the and than of the officers that culture is a important or an important firms take or in their culture a role in a on employees and officers that a ineffective culture the that an or majority that an effective culture would the of companies to in practices as to The interviews to decisions and are by corporate culture. and that the to the and the for the culture to be to be on whether these are in the the firm would a of the recent of this and is a by an against The the of public on how important is to the the as and do not what do not are as important in of and are officers that their culture is it what their firm's culture from it most survey that to to the culture. the effectiveness of the firm's culture are that and the firm's and and the of the of with employees and the of and to when is executives several to a given firm's culture, the of the understanding a CEO the culture of the firm of the with as of whether the culture is in with the of the the the and by we conducted in-depth interviews with corporate we by a to identify the key and questions in the corporate culture on this we a of questions that we corporate executives our in the and effects of corporate culture in the context of finance and our interviews primarily with CFOs, we also one CEO and several other managers (e.g., one chief the of corporate culture, and to we the executives The interview conducted on and the interview on are and the interview and the responses. are an to a on a as as corporate culture. interview with open-ended questions in view, is corporate and would the corporate culture at The interview to and the as the interview We also interviews to identify and as in survey questions. We the interview provide insights into the questions in the interviews conducted via of the questions in the interviews are to that on the survey the executives to be and interviews the survey The interviews in from to The executives in their responses and the the interview and in the in the that the of our executives are important to the US and 20% of the market of the are than the firm with of and are and and credit we that interviews are a to that provide insights into corporate culture, we that are as from as a number of whether questions are do do what do the do the most or their most interview corporate culture also to whether it is to the multiple of the firm's culture and whether the corporate culture the same to it is not to and it is our that the interview evidence insights into the we in We the interviews by is corporate executives culture as employees with one of how work of the work the the and for what of this we the would the culture at often the by employees as as the practices of their The executives often their firm's culture to the decisions the and the The views of corporate culture the of culture. to management and culture and and the firm that employees are and are not are that employees to are the practices that to these and the of a value, the would be by employees a we as when culture, of the the to and for a the for or to take and decisions if decisions to be and a take of it into the and on what to to it the and a for that of a and on the The of as and from an of a this to would the culture as in a that the in the with an would to a on in the we as when to or from the interviews the majority of our management are from The management in the than culture is one of of and that we work to is as at work to we at work to the we as when and in the of our and of we with and it from our to the for in the we employees are to the with and be a and or for our as a we as when and to their the is to the we take in our we to our a on understanding the business from the point of of the in the to the our our to and one of our a of on we to be the we that the with the from the that culture of the and We do that by a of employees how it is that we to with and that to a the We the We to some and of their are the we try to do to a we as when to be on decisions on the most and in work and and and to we as when of and of with and we as when work on be and a not the the the for the of to the survey in of the executives that their current culture in or of their culture to to be one the at firm an a of that would of one on that a or would not the and one of the culture in the from to a that their culture ineffective and not to and it or how at the top to an ineffective culture, and that a if at their at the top and their of what are to do and how are to to market a culture the are of what is to is also a of is to an and or to point that is culture or of that is effective at firms or the same firm at this the of that not be in a of other financial this is not the is the downside to a culture and it can a of of the for to the and of the The survey the three questions to the of corporate How important is corporate culture at of of the that firm would corporate culture? not in and Do that improving corporate culture would increase firm's reported in of survey consider corporate culture to be or at their firm. is by the that of culture as a driver of firm value and an culture as a of consider culture to be the top firm value. The interviews provide managers that corporate culture is important for corporate we executives to consider the of culture to firm value to other that value, most that culture is the top corporate culture the top culture as important than financial market and for the one is a the financial performance of a and the culture. culture can to the same same the and one an effective culture and one an ineffective culture, culture would the culture. is the in the effective culture would be would be to in the ineffective culture, be in it for to the corporate a the culture is to that culture by a to our culture. a whether that improving culture would increase their firm value, that an executives that a firm's culture, at in the is is that is the of the is a to that we executives the and culture, that a firm with an effective culture and a with an ineffective culture and The executives the culture and and how to culture and that we an accompanying that this an of the culture and one that a with a culture and a but not the other companies that are not if a it is that it if a on the the are to if not to The culture if a and not culture to that are to do the for the in the we provide of corporate culture is important for firms and at in the firm's this given by one of the CEO not to culture. think it of a not the not to with employees that would and a but and to the we a culture. a we are to a culture and for a that it for and The employees to into executives that having an effective corporate culture their firms in the of in an with and one are is to work as a in a with to be than some of employees of The work top of we over to be with and to of our are that We as a and a key of that is we are with our to work that The and that is a culture these Several that the of a is important and is in and a and what value it and at or in that several are to of that of to the the companies but the and the and the driver is culture. the not that one can and every that than the value of culture in an in we the and are a culture firms in of and we to a if to reported that a of would not an offer for given the of would their offer for with a as as 20% or of the of The interviews offer some to the that most firms would from an of a that is not a would for the wide it not if it a We would a it this a business would for the culture is and we can it and at on the downside one think it would be first-order of that value in the the to of and would this as a to how the this that an on a firm that a but the CEO to be would to the CEO in a and of what of person would work for a how the for the of the one a of questions that we would the of the culture and we would with the key of our culture. we would for on of and on a of we for in a that a to be to the role of culture in one when are as as are effective the at firm not to not to to and that culture. culture, but it to our firm. the culture and the that for these to and be employees to with and for other this we the that underlie the creation of a culture. we an effective culture that the firm and and/or work against the effectiveness of the culture. we to or what is the behind setting the firm's current culture. of identify the current CEO as the most important driver of the firm's current culture. of of identify the identify the and identify as responsible for the culture. is to that the of and compensation are not as of the current culture. We that these formal institutions as to the culture, than as a in the culture. We also that employees not to be one culture is from the when to the culture, it a The role of is to a that the one on the it and the culture. to that as CEO to what the culture to the firm on a role in employees to the in their to a culture. can an and can but if the employees into it a culture. that and with it is as and CEO in the to the to of the an role in setting the culture, several executives that it is a one that a in the think the can do is a from the top that to the key of the and is how how and their that it is a other executives that the often the an role in setting the culture. the culture. to be an active in the their is the culture, a of the of the firm. be some that influence culture, but in the of the do to the culture of the than the executives with to an effective culture context and First, as one to be to or the one is in to if the is to work the CEO of as an at what for a CEO with insights in of and what to and a The culture we what we than the We the what The culture a but of the same that at and at to and it and a same is Second, in top some executives to effective one culture by the top at the We that are of our is and The CEO and of the decisions as to the is a are by a is a of insight into the culture that the CEO or may think a Several point the of in the firm's culture and that to the culture and as one internal other internal that to of the employees to reinforce what the culture every the CEO to the of in of of the employees in an to reinforce the culture as take employees we books of and in some an to a or that in the into culture is also promotion from of that the culture, our employees that to and to executives also formal of of employees a of what on if for a Some executives that for to the culture, a into the and does this does that some of these that can an if it as do to a in the if a of We that having a to that is important for may not the to with that managers is for the culture. think the we the most is in managers into the that the of from the does a and the success of the can be by how can into the that in corporate culture is at and it not be as a a firm can to do when business is in our in a and when the to we to and the of this we and than we the same our survey are at an our survey are at an and we are than we as a and our is at a we at the that we to to our culture, not for our but for our as would to some performance to the of the culture the firm's culture. an multiple are and to to other and do are to a of we in when we a to try and the that are we are a financial to to try and to and to work that same and that survey the of employees and as of an effective culture. that and are the key to effective at is are at with of is by a culture, and that for as that the do the that in and do not the if is the same how or are we do with a can on the and their and their and are we on and our work for and that would to the of would to the of would to the of of would take to with the of can be the the of decisions or are not with an are the of and a culture of be with but to one of and and of and survey the of and and that the as to an effective culture. one culture is a for the that we are of our are that We as a and think a key of that is we are with our to work that on the one of our is We on the and success management a for into of our with to we work to and employees in other and in several to by executives if failure is as an or from a or failure as if and are and how often employees the than majority of survey in the of in the firm and in as of their one culture views and business from the from our to views in this as to with and to try the that of and their the or the the with the or is a or a that if at at the not, a culture that of not executives the of active and to the firm also that a the employees to and the one of our that a at firm but are to the to and to that this or that by this or are to the and also that is a of a we other executives discuss firms with ineffective a of other and that is to their or are to to their one of are of not when and to a if key by executives that to the effectiveness of the culture the of the a of culture. a culture for would a of the that are by other than the of the is if the is internal or are to is of a but it in the that may be that not that would be a one to to it and What this is that internal does not for upside of that that the with employees work to the effectiveness of the culture. to by executives in a and how employees can on with a how of may to an ineffective culture for firm one can of on to of to or an to and to the majority of survey an that and by employees and that to the effectiveness of the corporate culture. that our interviews is that having employees on the of that are an effective culture. if of the employees are but the other is the the employees that one of culture, in of how or that of is how to and to how to if not than if is to the to or as a of of think is with how employees would the firm to to one it seen the and these that reported a culture of or of as to do the and their and is that that do that and and can this that we do the by point that of to a culture. can an and can but if the employees into it a culture. that and with it is formal institutions can how a given corporate culture the culture and business compensation can reinforce the of a given culture, or it may work against the culture by a of We on the of the formal institutions that can modify a firm's hiring, firing, governance as the of and internal governance as the finance may at the firm the institutions and formal institutions that is of an the of and how from the the firm when are not that are often be on outcomes and to culture is an for and is a formal with of on if the do not reinforce the formal is to the effectiveness of the it is important to that the can work for or work against the culture. The reported in that management and of reinforce the culture. of the effectiveness of corporate culture. of the of to the effectiveness of the culture. of of also that the finance function the effectiveness of corporate culture. that compensation effectiveness that compensation schemes work against the effectiveness of culture. firing, and promotion reinforce an effective culture of the but work against the effectiveness of the culture of the The role of the CEO and management are details behind the other four responses. the by employees in for their and are a important for the effectiveness of the firm's culture. shows that of executives that the compensation the effectiveness of the culture, and it against the culture. that that culture the culture, that the compensation to and the of to the that their compensation employees for living the of the culture, and that their compensation employees on of compensation that reinforce the culture for with the culture or for living the culture, and living the financial for managers from firms to with the culture and compensation to and compensation to and promotion outcomes of the employees firms that that their compensation schemes work against the effectiveness of the culture, that that compensation employees on their firm's compensation and the of to the firm and 20% compensation to of failure and by executives compensation is and driver of the and if that is not with culture it the culture. do what to do when are compensation affect and the effects of compensation schemes and benefits for the most for one and one for are not are not and compensation of compensation against the effectiveness of the culture is the of performance on a one this for and it is on a a number of are number are and a are of what are to that a of the at the are are to be and it to do to to the to do than The of compensation that from the culture employees for a to the to that a firm's culture that to value and in but employees for employees to the and not the in to The recent a of the when compensation work against the this as a and a for the and that is a of culture. and having a to is of a culture is to employees their to outcomes that the compensation the of business the to may be of is to the but with a of that to executives that key of the compensation are and to be in of the to be as and performance or culture of on of at in of to and work and their as as are the of to the culture is hiring, firing, and can by the of their employees or not employees if to their to the these practices to reinforce the culture employees are to the firm. often how these to the employees with as at their firm. one and the decisions are by our CEO and it a point to with as are via on the number one culture and a of one and when is this across is the in the and by that can in a that especially at often on the culture. one think to a of the and of how important the culture a in the the culture of the and how if to to that to the culture. think the employees the of the culture, but to be of hiring, firing, and promotion may reinforce and to it may also be a for effective culture. of ineffective from hiring, firing, and promotion that against do not to as the culture is that with views from the are or do not to be firm a employees as but this the of We that employees if we that is a of having to employees when the of and decisions and promotion and of for employees the same Some employees their with management from in an of practices against the effectiveness of the culture, one an of a The on the person in the the The is to to the and the are as in this not to the of an to that blamed for the the person to to the of and that the with by the the not a to to the and it a corporate culture that of surveyed executives of their firm's current culture. the other governance against the culture and the impact on culture. the that a impact on the culture do Some of the the impact of their their with the their and their to and culture. that are in the culture the culture and firms one CEO an active that a role in and the culture. We an that a of questions. questions not of the top of management but also the and key that and The to and their if we are or or are we in one or that a to practices may be with is of our culture. The of our compensation How are Are Are Are we the with the is a of a is on is of the with and from the against the effectiveness of culture. does not with management a in to or the culture. We an and are a and a in of what is on in think into our culture, not what when as do not influence culture. The on the are for the most by the and for the are to is Boards are not for when are as a to the the culture at that to think of the culture at is a culture the the management and the the a of with the that a to when do not and not for a the biggest as the and setting the culture via their of one a the CEO the impact on the culture and the biggest impact on the CEO and also on what the CEO and what is and not is but the in view, impact by setting the at the that the the but does not with the of some the the The important for our is to and integrity. The the at that is a to that in a in-depth in of of employees for seen executives that to when it to culture. one is for to try to and the and the and what management to an for the culture of the and of what and what can and be from a or a it is but think that are to the culture may managers to do that or to that executives the on management to the the culture. one the on these for it that the management also the the may to over the culture if but in with and other the is of a of it is important that the the We also the role of the finance and function in or the effectiveness of the firm's culture. The finance function the firm is to employees in M&A, and the of finance the effectiveness of their that the finance function in their and of that finance for finance employees on we finance with with the finance employees as and and this the of the culture. one finance culture that the culture of our The finance is not as as some of the the finance to a and as a we other and we work a The finance a with a The of that is integrity. that finance a of we that is not or not we an and we an of how role as a management and the