# Structure (mathematical logic)

In universal algebra and in model theory, a structure consists of a set along with a collection of finitary operations and relations that are defined on it.

Universal algebra studies structures that generalize the algebraic structures such as groups, rings, fields and vector spaces. The term universal algebra is used for structures of first-order theories with no relation symbols. Model theory has a different scope that encompasses more arbitrary first-order theories, including foundational structures such as models of set theory. 

From the model-theoretic point of view, structures are the objects used to define the semantics of first-order logic, cf. also Tarski's theory of truth or Tarskian semantics. 

For a given theory in model theory, a structure is called a model if it satisfies the defining axioms of that theory, although it is sometimes disambiguated as a semantic model when one discusses the notion in the more general setting of mathematical models. Logicians sometimes refer to structures as "interpretations", whereas the term "interpretation" generally has a different (although related) meaning in model theory, see interpretation (model theory).

In database theory, structures with no functions are studied as models for relational databases, in the form of relational models.

History
In the context of mathematical logic, the term "model" was first applied in 1940 by the philosopher Willard Van Orman Quine, in a reference to mathematician Richard Dedekind (1831 – 1916), a pioneer in the development of set theory. Since the 19th century, one main method for proving the consistency of a set of axioms has been to provide a model for it.

Definition

Formally, a structure can be defined as a triple  consisting of a domain  a signature  and an interpretation function  that indicates how the signature is to be interpreted on the domain. To indicate that a structure has a particular signature  one can refer to it as a -structure.

Domain

The domain of a structure is an arbitrary set; it is also called the  of the structure, its  (especially in universal algebra), its  (especially in model theory, cf. universe), or its . In classical first-order logic, the definition of a structure prohibits the empty domain.

Sometimes the notation  or  is used for the domain of  but often no notational distinction is made between a structure and its domain (that is, the same symbol  refers both to the structure and its domain.)

Signature

The signature  of a structure consists of:

 a set  of function symbols and relation symbols, along with 
 a function  that ascribes to each symbol  a natural number  

The natural number  of a symbol  is called the arity of  because it is the arity of the interpretation of 

Since the signatures that arise in algebra often contain only function symbols, a signature with no relation symbols is called an algebraic signature. A structure with such a signature is also called an algebra; this should not be confused with the notion of an algebra over a field.

Interpretation function

The interpretation function  of  assigns functions and relations to the symbols of the signature. Each function symbol  of arity  is assigned an -ary function  on the domain. Each relation symbol  of arity  is assigned an -ary relation  on the domain. A nullary (-ary) function symbol  is called a constant symbol, because its interpretation  can be identified with a constant element of the domain.

When a structure (and hence an interpretation function) is given by context, no notational distinction is made between a symbol  and its interpretation  For example, if  is a binary function symbol of  one simply writes  rather than

Examples

The standard signature  for fields consists of two binary function symbols  and  where additional symbols can be derived, such as a unary function symbol  (uniquely determined by ) and the two constant symbols  and  (uniquely determined by  and  respectively).
Thus a structure (algebra) for this signature consists of a set of elements  together with two binary functions, that can be enhanced with a unary function, and two distinguished elements; but there is no requirement that it satisfy any of the field axioms. The rational numbers  the real numbers  and the complex numbers  like any other field, can be regarded as -structures in an obvious way:

In all three cases we have the standard signature given by
 
with  and

The interpretation function  is:
 is addition of rational numbers,
 is multiplication of rational numbers,
 is the function that takes each rational number  to  and
 is the number  and
 is the number 
and  and  are similarly defined.

But the ring  of integers, which is not a field, is also a -structure in the same way. In fact, there is no requirement that  of the field axioms hold in a -structure.

A signature for ordered fields needs an additional binary relation such as  or  and therefore structures for such a signature are not algebras, even though they are of course algebraic structures in the usual, loose sense of the word.

The ordinary signature for set theory includes a single binary relation   A structure for this signature consists of a set of elements and an interpretation of the  relation as a binary relation on these elements.

Induced substructures and closed subsets

 is called an (induced) substructure of  if
  and  have the same signature 
 the domain of  is contained in the domain of   and
 the interpretations of all function and relation symbols agree on 

The usual notation for this relation is 

A subset  of the domain of a structure  is called closed if it is closed under the functions of  that is, if the following condition is satisfied:  for every natural number  every -ary function symbol  (in the signature of ) and all elements  the result of applying  to the -tuple  is again an element of  

For every subset  there is a smallest closed subset of  that contains  It is called the closed subset generated by  or the hull of  and denoted by  or . The operator  is a finitary closure operator on the set of subsets of .

If  and  is a closed subset, then  is an induced substructure of  where  assigns to every symbol of σ the restriction to  of its interpretation in  Conversely, the domain of an induced substructure is a closed subset.

The closed subsets (or induced substructures) of a structure form a lattice. The meet of two subsets is their intersection. The join of two subsets is the closed subset generated by their union. Universal algebra studies the lattice of substructures of a structure in detail.

Examples

Let  be again the standard signature for fields. When regarded as -structures in the natural way, the rational numbers form a substructure of the real numbers, and the real numbers form a substructure of the complex numbers. The rational numbers are the smallest substructure of the real (or complex) numbers that also satisfies the field axioms.

The set of integers gives an even smaller substructure of the real numbers which is not a field. Indeed, the integers are the substructure of the real numbers generated by the empty set, using this signature.  The notion in abstract algebra that corresponds to a substructure of a field, in this signature, is that of a subring, rather than that of a subfield.

The most obvious way to define a graph is a structure with a signature  consisting of a single binary relation symbol  The vertices of the graph form the domain of the structure, and for two vertices  and   means that  and  are connected by an edge. In this encoding, the notion of induced substructure is more restrictive than the notion of subgraph. For example, let  be a graph consisting of two vertices connected by an edge, and let  be the graph consisting of the same vertices but no edges.  is a subgraph of  but not an induced substructure. The notion in graph theory that corresponds to induced substructures is that of induced subgraphs.

Homomorphisms and embeddings

Homomorphisms

Given two structures  and  of the same signature σ, a (σ-)homomorphism from  to  is a map  that preserves the functions and relations. More precisely:

 For every n-ary function symbol f of σ and any elements , the following equation holds:
.
 For every n-ary relation symbol R of σ and any elements , the following implication holds:
 
where ,  is the interpretation of the relation symbol  of the object theory in the structure ,  respectively.

A homomorphism h from  to  is typically denoted as , although technically the function h is between the domains ,  of the two structures , .

For every signature σ there is a concrete category σ-Hom which has σ-structures as objects and σ-homomorphisms as morphisms.

A homomorphism  is sometimes called strong if:

 For every n-ary relation symbol R of the object theory and any elements  such that , there are  such that  and 
The strong homomorphisms give rise to a subcategory of the category σ-Hom that was defiend above.

Embeddin