# Shakespeare Theatre Company

The Shakespeare Theatre Company is a regional theatre company located in Washington, D.C. The theatre company focuses primarily on plays from the Shakespeare canon, but its seasons include works by other classic playwrights such as Euripides, Ibsen, Wilde, Shaw, Schiller, Coward and Tennessee Williams. The company manages and performs in two spaces: The Michael R. Klein Theatre and Sidney Harman Hall. In cooperation with George Washington University, they run the STC Academy.

The company is a League of Resident Theatres member. Its current artistic director (since 2019) is Simon Godwin, who previously was based in London, serving as associate director of London's Royal National Theatre, associate director of the Royal Court Theatre and associate director at Bristol Old Vic.

History 

The Folger Shakespeare Library on Capitol Hill includes a replica of an Elizabethan theatre, originally used for lectures and tours. In 1970 this space was transformed into a functioning playhouse, and soon Folger Theatre Group (later The Folger Theatre) was organized to perform.

After years of discussion, Amherst College, administering body of the Folger Shakespeare Library, in 1986 withdrew financial support for the company. To save the company, concerned citizens led by R. Robert Linowes reincorporated it as the non-profit Shakespeare Theatre at the Folger, later hiring Michael Kahn as artistic director. The company continued to perform at the Folger for the next six years.

Changing its name to The Shakespeare Theatre, the troupe moved in 1992 to the Lansburgh Theatre (now, the Klein Theatre), a newly built space in the original Lansburgh's Department Store building in the Penn Quarter. At the start of the 2005–06 season, it adopted the current name, Shakespeare Theatre Company. The company constructed another theatre, Sidney Harman Hall, which opened in 2007 in the lower part of an office building in the quarter, and the two theatres were joined to become the Harman Center for the Arts.

Meanwhile, after initially importing traveling shows from the Shenandoah Shakespeare Express the Folger Shakespeare Library developed a new Folger Theatre company to present plays in its Elizabethan replica.

Facilities 

STC has two current performance venues. The newer and larger Sidney Harman Hall occupies the lower half of an 11-story office tower. The exterior is distinguished by a glass façade curtain wall on a projected bay window. The 761-seat performance space can be configured as a proscenium, thrust, semi-arena, corridor or bare stage. The smaller Klein Theatre (formerly the Lansburgh Theatre) is in the restored former Lansburgh's Department Store flagship store, originally built in 1882. The performance space is a 451-seat classic proscenium stage. The seating arrangement is reminiscent of a Greek Amphitheater. It has been described as "an intimate space for dramatic theatre, ensemble music, and dance"

In the past, the company has performed shows at the Terrace Theater in the Kennedy Center.

In addition to its performance spaces, the company maintains administrative offices, rehearsal studios, and a costume shop in the Capitol Hill neighborhood. A set construction and painting shop is near Catholic University in Northeast D.C. Finally a stage properties shop for the construction and storage of furniture, decorative items, hand props and a variety of set dressing items is located just outside D.C. on the northeast side of the city.

Theatrical focus
The Shakespeare Theatre Company's self-professed mission is "...to present classic theatre of scope and size in an imaginative, skillful and accessible American style that honors the playwrights' language and intentions while viewing their work through a 21st-century lens". Their vision is to "... endeavor to be an important resource to an expanded national and international community—as the nation’s premier destination for classic theatre, as a training ground for the next generation of theatre artists and as a model provider of high-quality educational content for students and scholars."

Artistic directors
Richmond Crinkley (1970–1973) (while Folger Theatre Group)
Louis W. Scheeder (1973–1980) (while Folger Theatre Group) 
John Neville-Andrews (1980–1986) (name changed to Folger Theatre then Shakespeare Theatre at the Folger)
Michael Kahn (1986–2019) (while Shakespeare Theatre at the Folger, then Shakespeare Theatre Company)
Simon Godwin (2019–)

Current and recent productions 

Resident theatre company pioneer Zelda Fichandler has stated that for resident theatre companies "repertory is destiny" – a theatre company acquires its audience by the productions it presents. Most of The Shakespeare Theatre Company's productions are from The Bard's canon. However each year up to half of the productions are classical works by other authors. The oldest has been Aeschylus's The Persians, the oldest surviving play in the history of theatre. The youngest plays include works by Tennessee Williams (Camino Real, Sweet Bird of Youth) and Harold Pinter (Old Times). The company has also produced modern interpretations of classical texts such as Mary Zimmerman's Argonautika (adapted from The Voyage of Jason and the Argonauts).

2017–2018 season
Fully staged productions:
The Lover and The Collection, by Harold Pinter
Twelfth Night, by William Shakespeare
Hamlet, by William Shakespeare
Noura, by Heather Raffo
Camelot, book and lyrics by Alan Jay Lerner and music by Frederick Loewe

Shakespeare Theatre Company presentation:
Waiting for Godot, by Samuel Beckett, created and presented by Druid

2016–2017 season
Fully staged productions:
Romeo and Juliet, by William Shakespeare
The Secret Garden, by Marsha Norman and Lucy Simon and based on the novel by Frances Hodgson Burnett
Charles III, by Mike Bartlett
Macbeth, by William Shakespeare
The School for Lies, adapted by David Ives and based on a play by Molière

Shakespeare Theatre Company Presentation:
The Select (The Sun Also Rises), based on a novel by Ernest Hemingway, adapted and presented by Elevator Repair Service,

Notable guest artists
In addition to its troupe of regular and frequently appearing actors, the Shakespeare Theatre Company invites guest performers and directors each season.

Jane Alexander – Ghosts (Mrs. Alving)
Elizabeth Ashley – Mrs. Warren's Profession (Mrs Warren), The Little Foxes (Regina)
Michael Attenborough – director (As You Like It)
René Auberjonois – The Imaginary Invalid (Argan)
Keith Baxter – actor, Measure For Measure (Duke Vincentio), Henry IV, Parts 1 and 2 (Henry IV), The Merchant of Venice (Antonio); director (Lady Windermere's Fan, The Imaginary Invalid, The Rivals, The Country Wife, Henry IV, Part 1, Mrs. Warren's Profession, An Ideal Husband, The Importance of Being Earnest)
André Braugher – Othello (Iago)
Avery Brooks – Othello (Othello), The Oedipus Plays (Oedipus), Tamburlaine (Tamburlaine)
Ron Canada – Othello (Iago) 
Dixie Carter – Lady Windermere's Fan (Mrs. Erlynne)
Jeffrey Carlson – Hamlet (Hamlet)
Pat Carroll – Romeo and Juliet (Nurse), The Merry Wives of Windsor (Falstaff), Mother Courage and Her Children (Mother Courage), Volpone (Volpone)
Gale Edwards – director (Edward II, Titus Andronicus, Richard III, Hamlet)
Harry Hamlin – Henry V (Henry V)
Hal Holbrook – The Merchant of Venice (Shylock)
Tom Hulce – Hamlet (Hamlet)
Stacy Keach – Richard III (Richard), King Lear (Lear), Henry IV, Parts 1 and 2 (Falstaff) 
Sabrina LeBeauf – Love's Labour's Lost (Rosaline), The Taming of the Shrew (Kathrine)
Marsha Mason – All's Well That Ends Well (Countess of Rousillon)
Kelly McGillis – The Merchant of Venice (Portia), Twelfth Night (Viola), Mourning Becomes Electra (Lavinia), MacBeth (Lady MacBeth), The Duchess of Malfi (Duchess), As You Like It (Rosalind), Measure for Measure (Isabella), All's Well That Ends Well (Helena), Much Ado About Nothing (Beatrice)
Patrick Page – Othello (Iago), Macbeth (Macbeth), Coriolanus (Coriolanus), King Lear (King Lear).
Siân Phillips – The Importance of Being Earnest (Lady Bracknell)
Richard Schiff – Hughie (Erie Smith)
Jean Stapleton – Romeo and Juliet (Nurse)
Patrick Stewart – Othello (Othello)
Rebecca Taichman – director (The Taming of the Shrew, Twelfth Night, Cymbeline, The Winter's Tale)
Richard Thomas – Richard II (Richard)
Paul Winfield – Merry Wives of Windsor (Falstaff)
Hannah Yelland – The Winter's Tale (Hermione)
Mary Zimmerman – director (Pericles, Argonautika, Candide, The Notebooks of Leonardo da Vinci)

Commissioned works
The Shakespeare Theatre Company commissioned playwright David Ives to translapt (translate and adapt) a series of rediscovered European comedy masterpieces, as follows:

The Liar by Pierre Corneille 
The Heir Apparent by Jean-François Regnard
The Metromaniacs by Alexis Piron
School for Lies, based on Molière's The Misanthrope
The Panties, The Partner and the Profit: inspired by The Underpants, The Snob, 1913, and The Fossil by Carl Sternheim

All plays featured Ive