Entrepreneurship/VC Research

Title: THE ROLE OF UNIVERSITY IN THE REGIONAL INNOVATION ECOSYSTEM

Abstract:
The key factor in the formation of business ecosystems is the development of information technology and the opportunities it provides for the development of global collaboration within and between companies. In this study, digital business is at the heart of business ecosystems, but the development of digital business is supported by the whole system of ecosystems. The performance of a business ecosystem is based on a well-functioning entrepreneurship ecosystem aimed at supporting the creation of new businesses. Conversely, the growth and development orientation of established companies depends on the performance of the entrepreneurial ecosystem. The innovation ecosystem, in turn, orchestrates innovation clusters and smart specialization between companies and regions. Digital innovation refers to ICT-product innovation or in a broader sense, to ICT-enabled innovation In this study, a theory-based ideal model of the innovation ecosystem was constructed. Thematic interviews with 10 companies aimed to provide a description of the current state of the regional innovation ecosystem. Using the ideal model and this description, differences and discrepancies between the two are identified. Based on this, development proposals will be prepared especially for universities in order to develop activities so that possible deviations between practical activities and the ideal model can be eliminated. The study shows that while companies have collaborations and partnerships to develop digital business innovations, collaboration is not regional but rather national or even global. Collaboration with a regional university involves participation in regional development projects, and is not specifically related to innovation or the transfer of globally significant digital expertise. This kind of expertise is one of the foundations of the ideal model. According to the interviews, the business cooperation was specifically related to the training of personnel, especially technical experts. If the innovation ecosystem is defined by theory as in this study, companies of significant business ecosystems do not have a broad interface to the regional innovation ecosystem or the region does not have an innovation ecosystem that meets the criteria of an ideal model. In order to develop the role of regional university, it should revise the logic of operations from a new perspective. Particular attention should be paid to the university's technological expertise in relation to global expertise. The University of Applied Sciences already has a strong role in the regional entrepreneurship ecosystem and entrepreneurial ecosystems and thus, is able to help in developing a regional innovation ecosystem. In addition, partnerships with international universities and the ability to attract internationally high-level experts with globally applicable expertise are needed. This support the development of a regional innovation ecosystem and the strengthening of the role of the University of Applied Sciences as a part of this ecosystem. However, university-business cooperation should be flexible and take into account companies developing their skills as well as those that have already become global players.