# Kenichi: The Mightiest Disciple

is a Japanese manga series written and illustrated by . Matsuena first published a manga titled Tatakae! Ryōzanpaku Shijō Saikyō no Deshi, which ran in Shogakukan's Shōnen Sunday Super from 1999 to 2002. Kenichi: The Mightiest Disciple is a remake of the series, and was serialized in Shogakukan's Weekly Shōnen Sunday from April 2002 to September 2014, with its chapters collected in 61 tankōbon volumes.

A 50-episode anime television series adaptation produced by TMS Entertainment aired on TV Tokyo from October 2006 to September 2007. Brain's Base produced an 11-episode original video animation (OVA) series released between March 2012 and May 2014. The anime television series was licensed in North America by Funimation in 2008, but the rights to the series expired in 2018. It was re-licensed by Discotek Media in 2020.

By February 2012, the Kenichi: The Mightiest Disciple manga had over 12 million copies in circulation.

Plot
The story focuses on Kenichi Shirahama, a 15-year-old high school student and a long-time victim of bullying. At the beginning of the story, he befriends transfer student Miu Fūrinji; and desires to become stronger, he follows her to Ryōzanpaku, a dojo housing several masters of diverse martial arts, led by her grandfather Hayato Fūrinji. 

After learning basics from Miu, Kenichi overcomes a high-ranking member of the school's karate club and becomes a target for all the delinquents in the school. While initially training to protect himself, Kenichi eventually becomes a full disciple of Ryōzanpaku and becomes enamored of Miu. Subsequently, Kenichi's daily routine is divided between training under the six masters of Ryōzanpaku, and his fights against the members of 'Ragnarok', a gang of bullies trying alternately to recruit or to vanquish him. 

After Ragnarok is disbanded, Kenichi and Miu are targeted by Yomi, a group of disciples personally trained by a master of an organization rivaling Ryōzanpaku, Yami. While the masters of Ryōzanpaku and their allies follow the principle of always sparing their opponents' lives (Katsujin-ken), the members of Yami believe that any means of defeating an opponent is valid, including murder (Satsujin-ken). In the struggle between the two factions, Kenichi, Miu, and their allies fight the members of Yomi, while his masters confront the members of Yami. The conflict between the two factions culminates with the final battle to stop Yami's main objective, which is to usher in a new era of chaos and warfare in the world, also known as "The Eternal Sunset". Once the Eternal Sunset is prevented and their main leader is defeated, Yami and Yomi are disbanded as well. Kenichi then continues to train at Ryōzanpaku, and years later he becomes a famous novelist, but it's hinted that he also becomes Miu's husband and a martial arts master more powerful than her grandfather, the Elder, who had always sworn he would only allow Miu to marry someone capable of defeating him first.

Main characters

Kenichi is a second year high school student. The story follows him as he continues to train, and eventually live, at the Ryozanpaku dojo, fighting increasingly capable enemies. He lacks any form of sakki (killer intent) and adheres to a strict code of morals. As a result, Kenichi has made many friends, mostly of former enemies, and wins the affections of Renka Ma, Miu, Izumi, and Li Raichi.

Kenichi's classmate and love interest. Miu came into Hayato's care when his son murdered several of his friends and his wife, sparing Miu by accident. Thereafter Miu learned martial arts from her grandfather. Miu is often clumsy among her fellows, and requires Kenichi's support in making friends. Miu has a great fondness for kittens and becomes hostile towards anyone who harms one. She is prone to rash decisions in money-making.

Miu's grandfather and the elder of the Ryōzanpaku Dojo. He is tall, muscular, and possesses tremendous vitality despite his advanced age. Hayato is a kind old man but still possesses a reckless streak and can be arrogant. He is fond of Kenichi, calling him "Ken-chan", and is the only one who apologizes to him for difficult exercises.

A 30-year-old master of karate. He is a tall man almost always seen wearing a leather jacket and has a long scar across the bridge of his nose.He is often depicted as fierce in conversation and embarrassed by trivial things, and tends to quarrel with others, especially Apachai. He also gambles and drinks frequently and often places bets on Kenichi.

A 28-year-old master of Muay Thai and is known as the "Death God" ("Grim Reaper" in the English anime) of the Muay Thai underworld fighting circuit. He is tall and powerfully built, has tanned skin, and is usually seen wearing a tank top and shorts with bandages wrapped around his hands and feet. Apachai has been fighting life or death battles in underground Muay Thai fights since he was a teenager.

A 23-year-old weapons master, who dresses in a small pink kimono; underneath she wears bandages over her chest and a fundoshi. When fighting seriously, she dons chain mail.

A 38-year-old Jujitsu master, and the first master to train Kenichi. He is an old friend of Miu's father, Saiga. Despite his apparent fragility, he is immensely strong and capable, and can easily interpret other characters' unspoken thoughts. Additionally he has mastered calligraphy, painting, pottery, and sculpting, and builds contraptions as both training devices for Kenichi and power sources for the dojo, including a treadmill generator. He also owns an orthopedic clinic and can reset bones with ease. He has proved to be a good trauma surgeon also, and speaks Russian fluently.

A 42-year-old master of Chinese Kenpō. He is short, balding, and always wears a hat. He has been training in martial arts since he was very young and was the leader of a large martial arts alliance in China, which has 10,000 followers, which he left behind. He has a wife and three children in China.  Kenichi has absolute trust in Ma and has stated that he has never questioned his convictions as a martial artist.

A member of the Newspaper Club at Kenichi's school and has a broad range of expertise, including stealth, lock picking, tinkering, programming, and blackmailing. He retreats from most physical danger; but is also a skilled tactician.

Media

Manga

Manga author  first published a manga series titled , which ran for 28 chapters in Shogakukan's monthly magazine Shōnen Sunday Super from 1999 to 2002, with its chapters collected in five tankōbon volumes, released from September 18, 2000, to April 18, 2002. Matsuena would later release the remake Kenichi: The Mightiest Disciple, which started in Shogakukan's Weekly Shōnen Sunday on April 17, 2002. The manga finished after 12 years of publication in the magazine on September 13, 2014. Shogakukan collected the chapters in 61  tankōbon volumes, published under the Shōnen Sunday Comics imprint, from August 9, 2002, to February 18, 2015.

The series has been licensed in France by Kurokawa and in Italy by Panini Comics.

A gaiden volume was released by Shogakukan on September 18, 2007. A spin-off series, titled  was serialized in Shōnen Sunday S in 2012 and collected in a volume by Shogakukan on September 18, 2012.<ref></p></ref> An official guidebook was released by Shogakukan on May 16, 2014.

Anime

A 50-episode anime television series adaptation by TMS Entertainment  was broadcast on TV Tokyo from October 8, 2006, to September 29, 2007. The first opening theme for episodes 1–25 is "Be Strong", performed by Kana Yazumi, and the second opening theme for episodes 26–50 is , performed by Diva × Diva (Miho Morikawa with Akira Asakura). The series' first ending theme for episodes 1–15 is , performed by Issei Eguchi. The second ending theme for episodes 16–25 is "Catch Your Dream", performed by Joanna Koike. The third ending theme for episodes 26–45 is "Run Over", performed by Joanna Koike. The fourth ending theme for episodes 46–49 is  is performed by Sakura. The series' last episode uses the first opening theme "Be Strong" by Kana Yazumi as ending theme.

In North America the series was licensed by Funimation in May 2008. The series was broadcast on Funimation Channel. The rights to the series expired in 2018. In December 2020, Discotek Media announced that they had licensed the anime television and would have an upscale release slated for 2021; it was released on two Blu-ray Disc sets on August 31, 2021, and January 25, 2022. The series returned to Funimation's streaming service in May 2021. Crunchyroll added the series to their catalog in September 2021.

Original video animation
An 11-episode original video animation (OVA) series produced by Brain's Base started on March 14, 2012. The story continues from the Ragnarok Arc entering the Yomi arc. The second OVA episode, featuring later story in the Yomi arc, was released on June 18, 2012. The third OVA episode was released on November 16, 2012. The fourth and fifth OV