# List of Pakistani political families

This is a partial listing of prominent political families of Pakistan given in alphabetical order.

Azhar 

 Mian Muhammad Azhar  (Governor of Punjab, 1990-1993, Mayor of Lahore 1987-1991, founder of PMLN-Q)
 Hammad Azhar  (Previous Finance Minister of Pakistan)

Babar
 Nawabzada Nasrullah Khan
 Naseerullah Babar
 Farhatullah Babar

Bangash
 Ghulam Ishaq Khan, President of Pakistan.

Bhuttos
 Shah Nawaz Bhutto - The Dewan of Junagadh and the Father of Zulfiqar Ali Bhutto (Member Bombay Council).
 Zulfikar Ali Bhutto, son of Shah Nawaz (President (1970–1973); Prime Minister (1973–1977))
 Mumtaz Bhutto, cousin of Zulfikar, (chief of Bhutto tribe, former chief minister and Governor of Sindh, Federal Minister of Pakistan)
 Nusrat Bhutto, wife of Zulfikar (former minister without portfolio)
 Benazir Bhutto, daughter of Zulfikar (Prime Minister, 1988–1990 and 1993–1996), assassinated December 27, 2007.
 Murtaza Bhutto, elder son of Zulfikar Ali Bhutto and the brother of former Prime Minister of Pakistan Benazir Bhutto. He was assassinated.
 Shahnawaz Bhutto, son of Zulfikar Ali Bhutto. He died under mysterious circumstances.
 Ameer Bux Bhutto, son of Mumtaz Bhutto, Vice President of Sindh National Front and ex-Member of Sindh Assembly.
 Fatima Bhutto, daughter of Murtaza Bhutto.
 Bilawal Bhutto Zardari, son of Benazir Bhutto and Asif Ali Zardari, party chairman.
 Bakhtawar Bhutto Zardari, daughter of Benazir Bhutto and Asif Ali Zardari, Party Chairman

Bukharis
 Zulfi Bukhari, Special Assistant to Prime Minister Imran Khan
 Altaf Bukhari, Member in the Jammu and Kashmir Legislative Assembly
 Uzma Zahid Bukhari, Member of the Provincial Assembly of Punjab
 Zehra Batool, Member of the Provincial Assembly of the Punjab
 Syed Basit Sultan Bukhari, Member of the National Assembly of Pakistan
 Ajiaz Hussain Shah Bukhari, Member of the Provincial Assembly of Sindh
 Syed Samsam Bukhari, Former Member of the National Assembly of Pakistan
 Syed Ata-ul-Muhaimin Bukhari, President of Majlis-e-Ahrar-ul-Islam
 Syed Yawer Abbas Bukhari, Member of the Provincial Assembly of the Punjab
 Nayyar Hussain Bukhari, Senior leader of the Pakistan Peoples Party (PPP)
 Ejaz Hussain Bukhari, Member of the Provincial Assembly of the Punjab

Chaudhary Jatt
 Ch Muhammad Saqlain (He was elected for the third term as Member, Provincial Assembly of Punjab in general elections 2008 independently. Former MPA is now PTI's candidate for the constituency NA-66 Jhelum-I).
 Chaudhry Zahoor Elahi (A parliamentarian who played a major role in the restoration of democracy and human rights in Pakistan)
 Chaudhry Shujat Hussain (Prime Minister of Pakistan - 2004)
 Chaudhry Pervaiz Elahi (Chief Minister of Punjab - October - 2002 to October 2007)
 Chaudhry Wajahat Hussain, Former Federal Minister of Human Resources
 Chaudhary Moonis Elahi, MNA, Federal Minister for Water Resources
 Chaudhary Salik Hussain, MNA, Federal Minister of Board of Investment & Special Initiatives  
 Chaudhary Hussain Elahi, MNA
 Chaudhry Fawad Hussain, Former Federal Minister of Information & Broadcasting

Chaudhary Rajput
 Asiya Azeem Chaudhary (She was elected for her second term as Member, National Assembly of Pakistan on August 17, 2022). She was previously Member of the 12th National Assembly of Pakistan from 2002 till 2007.

Chattha Jatt
 Hamid Nasir Chattha, Former Speaker of the National Assembly.

Gabol
 Allah Bakhsh Gabol, Member Bombay Legislative Assembly 1928, Member Sindh Legislative Assembly 1937 and Mayor of Karachi for two terms.
 Nabil Gabol (Grandson of Khan Bahadur Allah Bakhsh and son of Ahmed Khan Gabol), Member Sindh Assembly 1988, 1993, 1997; Member National Assembly 2002, 2008 and Federal Minister for Ports and Shipping.

Gandapur
 Inayatullah Khan Gandapur, former chief minister of KPK (1973–1975). Served as KPK finance minister between 1972 and 1973.
Ikramullah Gandapur, former Minister of Agriculture in KPK, important leader in Kulachi area.
 Israrullah Khan Gandapur, member of KPK assembly from 2002 to 2013. Served as minister of Law, Parliamentary Affairs, and Human Rights.
Aghaz Ikramullah Gandapur, youngest ever member of KPK assembly, elected in 2018 following death of his father.
Ali Amin Gandapur,Federal Minister for Kashmir Affairs and Gilgit-Baltistan

Gujjars/Chaudhry 

 Akhtar Ali Vario, Former MNA/MPA/Minister C&W /Minister for Excise /Chairman Standing Committee Narcotics/Chairman District Council Sialkot
 Choudhary Khush Akhtar Subhani, Provincial Minister population welfare/Prisons/Housing & Physical Planning/Environmental Planning
 Tariq Subhani, MPA
 Armaghan Subhani, MNA/ Ex MPA/provincial minister
 Adil Pervaiz Gujjar, MPA-PTI, son of Pervaiz Sultan MPA Sammundari, Faisalabad
 Fazal Ilahi Chaudhry, Former President of Pakistan
 Chaudhry Muhammad Jaffar Iqbal, Senior Vice-President of PML-N.
 Qamar Zaman Kaira, Former Governor of Gilgit-Baltistan and Minister of Information.
 Tanveer Ashraf Kaira, Former Minister of Finance and General Secretary of PPP Punjab.
 Shafqat Mehmood, Federal Minister of Education/ E -Information and Petroleum.
 Chaudhry Zaka Ashraf, Former Chairman Pakistan Cricket Board and the owner of ZTBL.
 Malik Abrar Ahmad, MNA chairman PHA.
 Sardar Muhammad Yousuf, Religious minister.
 Fayyaz Ul Hassan Chohan, Former Information Minister, Punjab
 Chaudhry Amir Hussain, Former Speaker National Assembly 
 Nawabzada Ghazanfar Ali Gul, Former MNA/Minister 
 Chaudhry Muhammad Akhlaq, Minister of Special Education, Punjab

Jadoon 
 Iqbal Khan Jadoon, Former Chief Minister, NWFP
 Amanullah Khan Jadoon, Former Minister of Petroleum and Gas.

Kakazai (Loi Mamund) 
 Ghulam Muhammad, (Governor General Of Pakistan)
 Malik Barkat Ali (Politician, Lawyer and Journalist)
 Ghulam Ahmad Bilour, Ex-Federal Minister for Railways, Pakistan
 Maulana Muhammad Ali Jauhar, National Leader, Khilafat Movement, India, 1930s
 Abdul Aleem Khan

Kharal
 Rai Ahmad Khan Kharal, Ruler (nawab) of Jhamra, chieftain of the Kharal tribe.
 Ghulam Mustafa Khar, Former Governor of Punjab and former Chief Minister of Punjab.
 Ghulam Noor Rabbani Khar, Former Member of National Assembly of Pakistan.
 Hina Rabbani Khar, Minister of State for Foreign Affairs, Member of National Assembly of Pakistan.
 Malik Ghulam Raza Rabbani Khar, Former Member of National Assembly of Pakistan.
 Malik Ghulam Arbi Khar, Former Member of National Assembly of Pakistan 
 Khalid Ahmed Kharal, Former Federal Minister of Information of Pakistan.
 Malik Ghulam Raza Rabbani Khar, Member of National Assembly of Pakistan.
 Rai Ghulam Mujtaba Kharal, Former Member of National Assembly of Pakistan.
 Rai Usman Khan Kharal, Former Member of the Provincial Assembly of the Punjab.
 Rai Haider Ali Khan Kharal, Former Member of the Provincial Assembly of the Punjab.

Khattaks
 Habibullah Khan Khattak
 Ali Kuli Khan Khattak, Military General
 Ghulam Faruque Khan
 Nasrullah Khan Khattak
 Ajmal Khattak
 Afrasiab Khattak
 Parvez Khattak

Khattar
 Nawab Muhammad Hayat Khan CSI, early member of the Punjab legislature in the 19th c
 Sir Sikandar Hayat Khan, KBE, Premier/CM of the Punjab 1937-1942.
 Sir Liaqat Hayat Khan, KCSI, Prime Minister of Patiala state in British India.
 Sardar Shaukat Hayat Khan, senior political figure and close associate of MA Jinnah.
 HE Izzet Hayat Khan, former Pakistani ambassador to Tunisia
 Ghulam Sarwar Khan, Minister of Petroleum and (Member National Assembly of Pakistan)
 Tahir Sadiq Khan,(Member National Assembly of Pakistan) and former district nazim Attock
 Muhammad Zain Elahi, Former (Member National Assembly of Pakistan)

Khokhars
 Ghazanfar Ali Khan - Former Minister of Food, Agriculture and Health, Ambassador to Iran 1948-1952, to Turkey 1952-1953, to India 1954-1956 and to Italy 1956-1957.
 Riaz Khokhar  (Former Foreign Secretary of Pakistan serving from June 2002 to February 2005)
 M. Nawaz Khokhar (Former Deputy Speaker of the National Assembly of Pakistan)
 Malik Ahmad Khan Bhachar (Member Provisional Assembly of Punjab)
 Afzal Khokhar (Member National Assembly of Pakistan)
 Malik Saif ul Malook Khokhar (Member National Assembly of Pakistan)
 Malik Muhammad Ali Khokhar (Member Provisional Assembly of Punjab)
 Mustafa Nawaz Khokhar (Member Senate of Pakistan)
 Karam Elahi Bandial (Member Provisional Assembly of Punjab)
 Malik Ali Abbas Khokhar (Member Provisional Assembly of Punjab)
 Malik Karamat Khokhar (Member National Assembly of Pakistan)

Leghari 
 Farooq Leghari (ex President of Pakistan)
 Jamal Leghari 
 Awais Leghari
 Muhammad Mohsin Khan Leghari
 Rafique Haider Khan Leghari
 Muhammad Arshad Khan Leghari

Marwats
 Habibullah Khan Marwat, Justice of the West Pakistan High Court, first & second Chairman of the Senate of Pakistan, acting President of Pakistan, when the President Fazal Ilahi Chaudhry went abroad, Pakistan's Interior Minister and also Chief Minister of West Pakistan. Was elected to the first ever Legislative Council of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (then North-West Frontie