# Hayley Smith (American Dad!)

Hayley Dreamsmasher Smith-Fischer is a fictional character from the animated television series American Dad! She is voiced by Rachael MacFarlane, the younger sister of one of the series' co-creators, Seth MacFarlane. She is Stan and Francine Smith's 19-year-old daughter (18 when the series started) and Steve's older sister. 

Hayley, along with her father Stan, was one of the first two characters who were conceived and created for the series. Across the series, Hayley's storylines typically involve her liberal opinions clashing with her father's staunch conservative beliefs, and her on-again-off-again relationship with boyfriend Jeff Fischer, whom she marries in the show's sixth season.

Biography
Hayley Smith is the daughter of Stan Smith and Francine Smith, (although it is later revealed that Stan may not be her biological father, but this is one of the three episodes that contradict several others). She is rather short, standing at only  and often dwarfed by other characters her age. It is revealed in a brief flashback that she had a twin brother named Bailey. Unlike her father, her mother and her brother, Steve Smith, Hayley is ultra-liberal. She is "addicted" to marijuana and in "Jones for a Smith," Hayley actually worries that her marijuana smoking is getting out of hand and begs Francine to let her go to rehab, with Francine callously telling her daughter to stop being such a melodramatic attention-seeker. Hayley once helped the homeless, and is in favour of gun control. This causes a great amount of distrust and hatred for her on Stan's part, as he consistently has views that are polar opposite to hers. In the third-season episode "Stanny Slickers II: The Legend of Ollie's Gold", it is revealed that her middle name is Dreamsmasher, as given by Stan.

She lives with her parents and goes to Groff Community College, though she moved out temporarily after a bitter argument with Stan. As a college student, Hayley also majors in women's studies and promotes women's rights.

Personality
Hayley is Stan and Francine's new-age hippie daughter who, despite being a married adult for much of the series, still lives under her parents' roof along with her husband, Jeff. As revealed in the episode "The Kidney Stays in the Picture", she may or may not be Stan's biological daughter—Francine revealed to have cheated on Stan at a bachelorette party. Nonetheless, Stan still regards her as such. Hayley is passionate, insistent and vocal in her convictions. In mentality, she's portrayed as a passionate liberal, what was originally intended to be the antithesis to her father's conservatism. These character traits were particularly emphasized in the show's beginnings but heavily toned down afterwards. Intuitive and insightful, Hayley is able to instinctively grasp the hidden, inner, and obscure nature of situations. For example, she is able to see through Stan's disguise as a Russian communist to get her to come home in the episode "Stan Knows Best", and also, instantly upon entering the room in the episode "Finger Lenting Good", she realizes what Stan and Steve are up to in trying to get Jeff to hug them so as to lose his finger for engaging in his [Jeff] vice.  As another example, in the episode "Da Flippity Flop" when the essence of Klaus has entered Stan's body and taken control over it, he attempts to deceive Hayley and Francine into thinking he's truly Stan; however, Hayley instantaneously and half-heartedly acknowledges that it's Klaus. At times, Hayley is casually rude and insulting in attitude especially towards her brother, Steve, which can be described as sibling rivalry. This is primarily because of Hayley's disgust for Steve's obnoxious tendencies and generally shallow taste and desire towards the opposite sex. Several story arcs have been about Hayley's romantic relationship with Jeff. Back when the two were dating, they had several breakups.
Hayley is very often the most empathetic member of her family. She helped to unionize the homeless men Stan paid to fight each other, helped free foster children that Roger had enslaved, and is the one most likely to stand up for people's rights when her family tries to exploit people. Nevertheless, she is also sometimes seen as hypocritical and has moments of weakness—for example, in "Camp Refoogee" she went to an African refugee camp and swore to help the starving people during the short time she expected to be there. However, after finding out they would be there for a few weeks, she went to the spa-like U.N. aid base and went so far as to eat steak, despite being a vegetarian (The episode, The Longest Distance Relationship, she eats part of a steak, and in N.S.A. (No Snoops Allowed), she went an entire day eating just meat after she ate some by mistake). She is often disrespected by other more shallow and self-involved members of the household who seem to find her annoying and are contemptuous of her kinder and more selfless character, especially Stan and Roger.

The fourth season has started showing that Hayley is often prone to violent and uncontrollable mood swings. During puberty, she went through violent outbursts during every development, such as having to wear tampons (and ruining the family's white couch by sitting on it while wearing a skirt), being disappointed over how small her breasts were when they finished growing, and getting an enormous pimple. These mood swings terrified her parents and they were fearful of the same problems in her brother, although it is shown Steve has had his temper more under control. Another episode revealed that Hayley flies into a rage when men break up with her. It had gotten to the point where Hayley will have to go to jail if another relationship she has falls apart.

While still the most empathetic and possibly most sensible member of the Smith family, Hayley's generally intelligent and independent character becomes more at doubt in later seasons. Even upon moving back under her parents' roof, she is no longer an official student at Groff and once even claims that she always drops back out before term papers can happen and once even hinted that she planned on freeloading off her parents into her adult years. At this point in later seasons, Hayley's morality, sensibility, and seriousness have become much further in comparison to the rest of her more shallow, reckless, and muddled family members, and even Roger.

In "The Kidney Stays in the Picture", when Hayley needs a kidney transplant after drinking more liquor than she can handle, Stan immediately volunteers to have his kidney surgically removed to save Hayley. Francine greatly admires Stan's dedication to Hayley, but sheepishly admits Stan's transplant might result in organ rejection as she is unsure if Stan is Hayley's true father. Stan and Francine go back in time, and it is never revealed who Hayley's real father is as Stan requested that his kidney be taken out regardless and the doctors perform the transplant without revealing which kidney is used. The other potential father to Hayley is Joel Larson, a complete stranger who Francine slept with three days before she and Stan got married. When the doctor asked how they got the other kidney for Hayley, Stan said, " I called in a favour." It was later revealed that Roger cut into Larson's stomach with a keyhole saw, getting the kidney.

In season 5 episode 15 "Merlot Down Dirty Shame" it is revealed she and Klaus also share a telepathic ability to communicate. They can talk to each other with their thoughts.

Voice actors
According to a DVD special  on the creation of American Dad, Laura Prepon was initially chosen to play Hayley, but Prepon was dropped and replaced by Rachael MacFarlane, the younger sister of Seth MacFarlane.

In the French version of the show, the character is dubbed by Edwige Lemoine, the sister of Christophe Lemoine who dubbed the character of Eric Cartman from South Park.

Romance
Hayley has a husband named Jeff, who is a vegetarian as well. Hayley did once move out, to move in with Jeff who it turns out lives in his van. They sometimes go hiking and smoke marijuana together. She once dumped Jeff, because he agrees with everything that she says. During this time, she slept with Stan's boss, Deputy-Director Bullock, a conservative. This happened after they had an argument; he apologized and she ended up sleeping with him at his house. At first, Stan ignored their relationship and decided it was a great chance to be promoted to "Deputy-Deputy Director". Hayley later dumped Bullock before announcing Stan's promotion. Bullock learned that a more assertive Jeff came back into her life. Being very upset, Bullock promised Stan the promotion if he killed Jeff. Stan didn't kill Jeff but ended up battling his boss upon him insulting Hayley. Bullock gave Stan the job before Stan finished him off.  Jeff disappeared for a time after "Phantom of the Telethon," where he was performing hacky-sack tricks on-stage at a telethon when a b