Entrepreneurship/VC Research

Title: Agglomeration and clusters near and far for regional development: A critical assessment

Abstract:
The aim of the paper is to elaborate the popular concept of spatial clusters in a broader regional development context. Are regional clusters natural and emergent? Do we understand how and why? Does the concept necessarily imply nearness? How much? How little? Is there a role for policy makers? This contribution offers an up-to-date critical perspective. El objetivo del artículo es tratar en más detalle el concepto popular de los conglomerados espaciales (clusters) en un contexto de desarrollo regional más amplio. ¿Son los clusters regionales naturales y emergentes? ¿Se entiende cómo y por qué? ¿Implica el concepto necesariamente la cercanía? ¿Qué tanto? ¿Qué tan poco? ¿Existe una función para la formulación de políticas? Esta contribución ofrece una perspectiva crítica actualizada. 本稿の目的は、空間的クラスターの一般的な概念について、地域開発の大きな視点から詳しく説明することである。地域クラスターは自然発生的かつ新たに出現したものか、それがどのように、なぜなのかは解明できるか、その概念は必ず類似性を包含するものか、それはどの程度包含するか、包含しないのか、政策立案者に役割はあるのか、といった問題を検討する。また、最新の批評的視点を提示する。 Among the big questions that challenge us is still the one that involves the wealth of nations (see e.g., Acemoglu & James, 2012; Acemoglu & Robinson, 2019). How did we get so rich? “Modern humans first emerged about 100,000 years ago. For the next 99,800 years or so, nothing happened. Well, not quite nothing. There were wars, political intrigue, the invention or agriculture – but none of that stuff had much effect on the quality of people's lives. Almost everyone lived on the modern equivalent of $400 to $600 a year, just above the subsistence level. True there were always aristocracies who lived far better, but numerically, they were quite insignificant” Landsburg (2007). The remarkable (and very unusual) last 200–300 years have been described as The Mass Flourishing (Phelps, 2013); The Great Enrichment (McCloskey, 2016), The Great Breakthrough (Simon, 2000), The Great Fact (McCloskey, 2010), The Miracle (Goldberg, 2018), An Aberration (Mounk, 2018), etc. For the first time, palatable improvements in health, safety, longevity and consumption choices were seen within one's lifetime. Pinker (2018, p. 127) has taken up the theme and linked it to the topic at hand, the spread and application of ideas. “Indeed, it's a fallacy to think that people ‘need resources’ in the first place. They need ways of growing food, moving around, lighting their homes, displaying information, and other sources of well-being. They satisfy these needs with ideas: with recipes, formulas, techniques, blueprints, and algorithms for manipulating the physical world to give them what they want. The human mind, with its recursive combinatorial power, can explore an infinite space of ideas, and is not limited by the quantity of any particular kind of stuff in the ground. When one idea no longer works, another can take its place. This doesn't defy the laws of probability but obeys them.” The human mind is clearly the inspiration source and seedbed for progress and prosperity (see also Kahneman, 2011; Mokyr, 2007). But it is undoubtedly true that income and wealth are unequally distributed, not only among people or social groups but inevitably among nations, regions or cities. Some places are better endowed with more development resources than others and hence have a greater opportunity to flourish (as articulated in the “resourceful region concept” by Nijkamp, 2016). Discussions of resources must note Simon's point that the “ultimate” is human ingenuity. This suggests that urban agglomerations (including mega-cities) and metropolitan areas are nowadays regarded as the magnets of spatial-economic growth. Nevertheless, most of the above cited authors say surprisingly little about cities. But cities in the “urban century” are often called “engines of growth” (see the “new urban world” concept introduced by Kourtit, 2018). They are places where new ideas are generated and productivity enhanced. But this standard description is too passive because it does not recognize the driving force of entrepreneurial action. Entrepreneurs are specialized in terms of their awareness, their ability to see what is essential, their willingness to take risks, and their ability to discover, learn and create via repeated trial and error. So what is it that entrepreneurs in cities do? More specifically, how do entrepreneurs organize themselves spatially to succeed? These questions brings us into the realm of regional development analysis. Regional development has been a source of concern and interest since the early days of regional science. It has prompted an avalanche of studies on success and failure factors in regional and urban policy, not only in developed economies but also in the developing world. The general idea is that economic interests are best served through a process of spatially concentrated economic and industrial activity. This is clearly reflected in such concepts as industrial districts, growth centres or industrial clusters. The success of Silicon Valley as a model innovation or “tech hub” has been widely noted; “brain hub” may be better. Our brains are the “ultimate” resource (Simon, 1996). Just as new things are new combinations of existing things, new ideas are new combinations of ideas we already have: new neural connections. The bigger and the more diverse the network, the greater the odds of finding new combinations that denote new ideas. If our brains house complex neural networks, then networked networks, our brains interacting with others' brains, are much more complex and much better. Most of us spend much of our existence developing our brains via networking and re-networking connections inside as well as beyond our own heads. It is well established that many great ideas and inventions came about via discussions. Knowledge is cumulative, over time and over space. Whereas economists have long modeled competition among firms on the basis of price and/or product quality, some writers now claim that the competition that matters most involves learning and the creation and application of new knowledge (Maskell & Malmberg, 1999). All of these observations have prompted various brain hub discussions as an important regional planning policy. The prospect of long-term growth, especially for well-paid jobs is overwhelmingly attractive to policy makers and others. Attempts by regional planners to conjure or replicate a version of this development are widespread. For lagging regions, the prospect of some sort of jump-start opportunity is especially attractive. But discovering the formula (if there is such a thing) has been difficult. Saxenian (1998) suggests Silicon Valley's development was emergent. Hard-to-duplicate historical-institutional factors were key. Robert Metcalfe is credited with observing “Silicon Valley is the only place on Earth not trying to figure out how to become Silicon Valley” (Info World, 1998, p.123). And it is not just tech companies that congregate but also most notably venture capital firms that populate the high-tech ecosystem of “the Valley”. (Moretti, 2012, p.135). Ideas without capital or capital without ideas are incomplete, almost useless. The industries involved are generally “footloose” in the sense that they are unlikely to be tied to specific places abundant in a particular natural resource, such as timber, coal or water. This means that the location preferences of workers matter most. This suggests that climate matters. Florida (2002) has studied the location preferences of a “creative class” of people. Not surprisingly, they are identified as cosmopolitan in their tastes. Economists have noted the consumption externalities: greater variety and depth of cultural experiences are available when sufficient numbers of people with a taste for such enjoyments are nearby, close enough to create a critical mass of demand. These, where available, contribute to labour market pooling benefits. Can regional planning strategies contribute? 1 Agglomeration economies denote increasing returns to scale. This suggests forces that they are propulsive and will be exploited by profit-seeking entrepreneurs as well as advantage-seeking workers. Do policy-makers need to do anything? Does the process need to be kick-started somehow? There is a large and growing literature on plausible policy interventions to promote clusters. There is apparently rising popularity of so-called cluster concepts as a plausible cornerstone for regional development policy. Even though the notion of a cluster is not novel since Marshallian times, the idea has recently gained popularity thanks to the seminal work of Porter (2000) who launched the notion in a well-structured and coherent way in the 1990s. We now find in the regional and industrial economics literature a wealth of scientific contributions which take the cluster concept – directly or indirectly – as a critical departure for regional planning and policy strategies. In both the developed and the developing world clusters have been suggested as an operational policy tool for regional and urban planning. Admittedly, the notion of a cluster as a signpost or operational anchor point for regional policy has also been criticized in the regional science literature. It is time for a retrospective critical view of the relevance of the cluster concept as a serious regional development policy, while at the same time there is a need for a prospective view on clusters in the light of the drastic changes in the external environment of regional policy, such as the geographical impact of digital technology, the influence of globalisation on regions, and the changing role of governments in a participatory society. Recent contributions by Porter suggest a market-based description of a selective and focused development strategy for regions and localities. “Clusters represent a new way of thinking about national, state, and local economies, and they necessitate new rules for companies, government, and other institutions in enhancing competitiveness” (Porter, 1998, p. 3). But the idea of agglomeration economies is old; clustering discussions focus on the almost inevitable spatial realization of agglomeration. So it is not surprising that various writers have noted that clusters contribute to value creation in local or regional economies, without requiring expensive blueprint plans on industrial concentration. Their proof of concept (from a design and technological angle) is rather straightforward, while their proof of relevance (from a market pull perspective) is based on simple industrial organisation principles. Advanced and innovative clusters tend to generate significant benefits to workers, enterprises and regions or localities, in particular labour market pooling, knowledge and information spillovers, improvement of local entrepreneurial capability, exploitation of smart specialization, and a stimulus for a rise in local productivity, wage levels and number of jobs. Across the cluster, there is productivity enhancing competition as well as co-operation. The many discussions of clustering strategies and approaches found in the literature are generally vague, occasionally even circular, or simply arrays of commonsensical truisms. 2 “It is difficult for public policy to create new clusters deliberately. Instead policy-makers and practitioners can—promote and maintain the economic conditions that enable new clusters to emerge. Such an environment, for example might support knowledge creation, entrepreneurship, new firm formation and the availability of capital” (Cortright, 2006, p. V). Google Scholar shows over two-million entries for combination of “cluster” “strategy” and “Porter.” The literature we have sampled is replete with seemingly common sense bromides. A cluster is not necessarily a sine qua non for accelerated regional growth, but can offer facilitating conditions. Next to a conditional perspective on regional development clusters, another approach might be to remove barriers and get out of the way of propulsive forces, as Desrochers and Sautet (2004) suggest. These writers are less optimistic with respect to the cluster concept as a basis for a regional planning strategy. Are cluster strategies really market-based? “Upon closer examination, however, one must face the facts that not much is new about this [cluster] strategy and that it probably contains the seeds of its own demise … the concept is fuzzy and its promotion at the expense of spontaneously evolved diversity makes regions more likely to experience economic downturns, prevents the spontaneous creation of inter-industry linkages and hampers the creation of new ideas and businesses.” (Desrochers & Sautet, 2004, p. 2). “More than traditional industries, the knowledge economy has an inherent tendency toward geographical agglomeration” (Moretti, 2012, p. 5). But agglomeration economies can be many things. The simplest idea is that firms co-locate because of direct industrial and for the industries and how these co-locate among In they find that only of industrial can be by linkages as well as They also find that agglomeration can be as well as they find the of a firm as They that can to – and occasionally In a the spatial of the region shows the odds of a There is with but the spatial of agglomeration can be large and beyond plausible design of have been out for as long as we have It is not surprising the agglomeration also the traditional of a spatial cluster is too years the of in the of the There are now many more ways to in the modern world. In a of clusters, Kourtit, Nijkamp, and introduced the concept of clusters to that in a information among and is a critical success are there is also information We information because this is how we new ideas. We knowledge and are to figure out where and how to get clusters are not based on industrial but also on to information, and connections with local or regional policy-makers and It is that cluster is by both social capital developed among cluster and entrepreneurial in to industrial location we have this is complex because in the modern information can be many things, the development and of Saxenian we that where is it is the not that with what to what to All have a spatial must also what to what to The finding of and far the common of cluster or of cluster often But suggest not is an for some while information are also Entrepreneurs the best for their This in with concepts suggested by and just as there are clusters within planners also for clusters of cities. regions in and the are occasionally such as the in and the in the In the is as a cluster, but it and the others had and developed quite The discussions of cities and clusters note that matters. But cluster is also emergent. Agglomeration benefits and knowledge urban that is too The almost of spatial are key. and have the of and economies of as a an improvement in p. on the areas that only with the of the with respect to the number of workers is about in and promotion of cities is apparently too and the of spatial The cited suggest that there is as growth choices and of spatial choices (and of how be Can regional planners and these will the many the cluster concept is based on a diverse of regional development and Agglomeration are to industries, over space as well as over these are to and industries, over space as well as over time to an p. growing of is important not just for but because of what it means for society. the is first and it is now to cultural health, and even The of into some and less into others to and other human capital often a is important to some The spatial of human capital also for to and of information in space are based on of economic and social among The idea of a cluster to a critical spatial But are there Just as cities and regions do not do They spread in complex they are out as and and and at the spatial of agglomeration in the They that there can be and agglomeration and the of a cluster are by no means house in a or a variety of These may have or economic but in many there is a of as is clearly in the seminal work by and can many things. This is not significant can be via there are also for and the of knowledge are as is the and of It is not just that have to and understand other but so do and their In the choices of are not the involved and seemingly a variety of The on location and and In it is difficult to They complex and choices that the on how to There is no of It is not about moving people or moving ideas. and are the by and matter at It is not what planners can or do to clusters, growth or tech and the be in and who be Do policy-makers have any basis of Is it a matter of or more a matter of to suggests and not the entrepreneurial is where to and how to is a of entrepreneurial activity. The literature on spatial and cities that on and this important Can a urban be described by a such as or shows that many people to or places with nearby, where and diversity are enough in the digital is not what it to In any the many and of and are and be by They as a facilitating for and agglomeration is based on human and be It is of capital that may regional and (see The popularity of the cluster concept as of regional development planning has up questions on the role of and policy. and forces (and are always in All have All public Does this necessarily suggest Can planners do the things that Porter of Does too much or too little? The of the best has suggested that planners focus on and take these plans as the of the and the best of their The of is often cited as an How often can we that kind of of about in cities have long people who think about cities In light of modern over environment, many planning have for that they the of a barriers has not been the way that many planners approach the the say in notably in and brain Silicon have been on urban growth & & a large literature the and in up the productivity them to they local labour and This the labour pooling of the this a in has taken in many It also the idea that new must be only and can of many things. Can any maintain a light to for to human the of what tech are in the of learning via of this approach best to local are clearly The of and technological for the inherent in the light An approach to local conditions and to entrepreneurial has the best of developing the spatial that spatial and This the of regional or diversity are the better regional planning strategy. the other of local industrial the most spatial and are more likely to than be via and then is inevitably complex and of as well as The that technological and economic are not a with planning. The knowledge that planners face especially in of technological There are clearly also involved with and If and other are who when If is and are planners and to some of the If there are are planners to popular to and that to are nothing these policy are not are a but the of the almost that are spontaneously the most critical is not cluster creation and development needs but much more what of support in a and regional development context. The success of might have conditions. policy is clearly a with and of involved on local is well We have evolved to and work in This how our have been to the even though we are not the or the or the most the not because they are so smart but because they have found ways to and they can and in large The way that people themselves in space is a of this is one of the through which new economic It may as both a or as on The role of cities is well and cities complex spatial of some kind will to the of location through a of agglomeration and planning must be to can such be they or Do we and co-locate for social or economic Is the even Can these be The networking we do has economic but these the of that be into the and firms in cities because they space as well as involves complex especially in light of the many and of they and are widely and by economists and others. Some claim that there are say that it is to get more of In the role of cities and regions and their complex spatial are inevitably of the approach that the development of brains and the of ideas has long strategies for any long are but facilitating the development of new ideas has