# Stebliv

Stebliv () is an urban-type settlement in Zvenyhorodka Raion, Cherkasy Oblast, central Ukraine. It hosts the administration of Stebliv settlement hromada, one of the hromadas of Ukraine. The townlet rests at a bend on the Ros River, some  from Korsun-Shevchenkivskyi. Population:

History 
Situated on the Ros' River, water surrounds most of the historically settled areas of Stebliv, which is also protected by cliffs and natural ramparts. Given the evidence of Trypillian, Scythian, and Chernyakhov culture settlements, the area has been populated for quite some time and was very often the site of fierce battles. In 1036, Yaroslav the Wise built a fortress at Strebliv which overlooked the southernmost lands of Rus, and it stood there until the eventual Mongol invasion.

Stebliv was later settled by Cossacks who took part in several uprisings against the Polish rule of the territory, particularly the fateful Khmelnytsky Uprising. On March 15, 1648, Khmelnytsky's forces routed Polish forces who had taken a superior tactical position between Stebliv and Korsun. In 1664, hopelessly outnumbered by 20,000 Polish troops which had an additional force of 15,000 Tatars in support, the residents of Stebliv advanced on their enemies and fought to their deaths; the town was destroyed after their defeat.

Until 18 July 2020, Stebliv belonged to Korsun-Shevchenkivskyi Raion. The raion was abolished in July 2020 as part of the administrative reform of Ukraine, which reduced the number of raions of Cherkasy Oblast to four. The area of Korsun-Shevchenkivskyi Raion was split between Cherkasy and Zvenyhorodka Raions, with Stebliv being transferred to Zvenyhorodka Raion.

Notable people
Stebliv was the birthplace of Ivan Nechuy-Levytsky, a prominent Ukrainian 19th-20th century writer;  his original house has been preserved as a museum in Stebliv dedicated to his life and work.

The famous Ukrainian dancer and choreographer Vasyl Avramenko was also born in Stebliv.

References

Notes

Sources
 Історіа міст і сіл Української CCP - Черкаська область (History of Towns and Villages of the Ukrainian SSR - Cherkasy Oblast). Kyiv, 1972
 Official information at Ukrainian Verkhovna Rada portal
 Prominent people from Korsun

Urban-type settlements in Zvenyhorodka Raion