[Political Economy — Mill — Gutenberg #38194]

colonies, 159. The restraints formerly laid upon the trade of, unfavourable to the cultivation of land, 162. The free importation of, could little affect the farmers of Great Britain, 187. The policy of the bounty on the exportation of, examined, 206. The reduction in the price of, not produced by the bounty, ib. Tillage not encouraged by the bounty, ib. The money price of, regulates that of all other home-made commodities, 207. Illustration, 208. Ill effects of the bounty, ib. Motives of the country gentlemen in granting the bounty, 209. The natural value of not to be altered by altering the money price, 210. The four several branches of the corn trade specified, 213. The inland dealer, for his own interest, will not raise the price of, higher than the scarcity of the season requires, ib. Corn a commodity the least liable to be monopolised, 214. The inland dealers too numerous and dispersed to form a general combination, ib. Dearths, never artificial, but when government interferes improperly to prevent them, ib. The freedom of the corn trade the best security against a famine, 215. Old English statute to prohibit the corn trade, ib. Consequences of farmers being forced to become corn dealers, ib. The use of corn dealers to the farmers, 216. The prohibitory statute against the corn trade softened, 217. But still under the influence of popular prejudices, ib., 218. The average quantity imported and exported compared with the consumption and annual produce, ib. Tendency of a free importation of, 219. The home-market the most important one for corn, ib. Impropriety of the statute 22 Car. II. for regulating the importation of wheat, confessed by the suspension of its execution by temporary statutes, ib. Duties payable on the importation of grain before 13 Geo. III. ib. _note_, ib. The home-market indirectly supplied by the exportation of corn, ib. How a liberal system of free exportation and importation and among all nations would operate, 220. The laws concerning corn, similar to those relating to religion, 221. The home-market supplied by the carrying trade, ib. The system of laws connected with the establishment of the bounty, undeserving of praise, ib. Remarks on the statute 13 Geo. III. ib. _Corporations_, tendency of the exclusive privileges of, on trade, 26. By what authority erected, 50, 52. The advantages they derive from the surrounding country, ib. Check the operations of competition, 54. Their internal regulations combinations against the public, ib. Are injurious even to the members of them, ib. The laws of, obstruct the free circulation of labour from one employment to another, 57. Origin of, 163. Are exempted by their privileges from the power of the feudal barons, 164. The European East India companies disadvantageous to the eastern commerce, 181, 182. The exclusive privileges of corporations ought to be destroyed, 191. _Cottagers_, in Scotland, their situation described, 49. Are cheap manufacturers of stockings, ib. The diminution of, in England, considered, 95. _Coward_, character of, 329. _Credit_. See _Paper Money_. _Crusades_, to the Holy land, favourable to the revival of commerce, 165. _Currency of states_, remarks on, 194. _Customs_, the motives and tendency of drawbacks from the duties of, 203. The revenue of the customs increased by drawbacks, 205. Occasion of first imposing the duties of, 307. Origin of those duties, 371. Three ancient branches of, 372. Drawbacks of, ib. Are regulated according to the mercantile system, ib., 373. Frauds practised to obtain drawbacks and bounties, ib. The duties of, in many instances uncertain, ib. Improvement of, suggested, 374. Computation of the expense of collecting them, 380. D _Dairy_, the business of, generally carried on as a save-all, 96. Circumstances which impede or promote the attention to it, ib. English and Scotch dairies, ib. _Danube_, the navigation of that river, why of little use to the interior parts of the country from whence it flows, 9. _Davenant_, Dr. his objections to the transferring the duties on beer to the malt considered, 377. _Dearths_, never caused by combinations among the dealers in corn, but by some general calamity, 214. The free exercise of the corn trade the best palliative against the inconveniencies of a dearth, 217. Corn dealers the best friends to the people at such seasons, 218. _Debts_, public, the origin of, traced, 386. Are accelerated by the expenses attending war, ib. Account of the unfunded debt of Great Britain, 387. The funded debt, 388. Aggregate and general funds, 389. Sinking fund, ib. Annuities for terms of years and for lives, ib. The reduction of, during peace, bears no proportion to its accumulation during war, 391. The plea of the interest being no burden to the nation considered, 394. Are seldom fairly paid when accumulated to a certain degree, 396. Might easily be discharged, by extending the British system of taxation over all the provinces of the empire, 397. Ireland and America ought to contribute to discharge the public debts of Britain, 402. _Decker_, Sir Matthew, his observations on the accumulation of taxes, 369. His proposal for transferring all taxes to the consumer, by annual payments, considered, 371. _Demand_, though the increase of, may at first raise the price of goods, it never fails to reduce it afterwards, 314. _Denmark_, account of the settlements of, in the West Indies, 234. _Diamonds_, the mines of, not always worth working for, 73. _Discipline_, the great importance of, in war, 293. Instances of, ib. _Diversions_, public, their political use, 334. _Domingo_, St. mistaken by Columbus for a part of the East Indies, 229. Its principal productions, ib. The natives soon stripped of all their gold, 230. Historical view of the French colony there, 234. _Doomsday-book_, the intention of that compilation, 351. _Dorians_, ancient, where the colonies of, settled, 227. _Dramatic exhibitions_, the political use of, 334. _Drawbacks_, in commerce, explained, 182. The motives to, and tendency of, explained, 203. On wines, currants, and wrought silks, ib. On tobacco and sugar, 204. On wines, particularly considered, ib. Were originally granted to encourage the carrying trade, 205. The revenue of the customs increased by them, ib. Drawbacks allowed in favour of the colonies, 213. _Drugs_, regulations of their importation and exportation, 272. _Drunkenness_, the motive to this vice inquired into, 200. _Dutch_, their settlements in America slow in in improvement, because under the government of an exclusive company, 234. Their East India trade checked by monopoly, 261. Measures taken by, to secure the monopoly of the spice trade. See _Holland_. E _East Indies_, representation of the miserable state of the provinces of, under the English government there, 30. Historical view of the European trade with those countries, 86. Rice countries more populous and rich than corn countries, ib. The real price of labour lower in China and Indostan than in the greater part of Europe, 87. Gold and silver the most profitable commodities to carry thither, ib. The proportional value of gold to silver, how rated there, 89. Great extension of foreign commerce by the discovery of a passage to, round the Cape of Good Hope, 181. Historical review of the intercourse with, ib., 182. Effect of the annual exportation of silver to, from Europe, ib. The trade with, chiefly carried on by exclusive companies, 261. Tendency of their monopolies, ib. _East India company_, a monopoly against the very nation in which it is erected, 261. The operation of such a company in a poor and in a rich country compared, ib. That country whose capital is not large enough to extend to such a distant trade ought not to engage in it, 262. The mercantile habits of trading companies render them incapable of consulting their true interests when they become sovereigns, 264. The genius of the administration of the English company, ib. Subordinate practices of their agents and clerks, 265. The bad conduct of agents in India owing to their situation, ib. Such an exclusive company a nuisance in every respect, 266. Brief review of their history, 313. Their privileges invaded, ib. A rival company formed, ib. The two companies united, 314. Are infected by the spirit of war and conquest, ib. Agreements between the company and government, ib. Interference of government in their territorial administration, 315. And in the direction at home, ib. Why unfit to govern a great empire, ib. Their sovereign and commercial characters incompatible, 344. How the territorial acquisitions of, might be rendered a source of revenue, 403. _Economists_, sect of, in France, their political tenets, 275. _Edinburgh_, its present share of trade owing to the removal of the court and parliament, 138. _Education_, the principal cause of the various talents observable in different men, 7. Those parts of, for which there are no public institutions, generally the best taught, 320. In universities, a view of, 323. Of travelling for, 324. Course of, in the republics of ancient Greece, ib. In ancient Rome, ib. The ancient teachers superior to those in modern times, 326. Public institutions injurious to good education, ib. Inquiry how far the public ought to attend to the education of the people, 327. The different opportunities of education in the different ranks of the people, 328. The advantages of proper attention in the state to the education of the people, 329. _Egypt_, the first country in which agriculture and manufactures appear to have been cultivated, 9. Agriculture was greatly favoured there, 283. Was long the granary of the Roman empire, 284. _Ejectment_, action of, in England, when invented, and its operation, 160. _Employments_, the advantages and disadvantages of the different kinds of, in the same neighbourhood, continually tend to equality, 41. The differences or inequalities among, specified, ib. The constancy or precariousness of, influences the rate of wages, 43. _England_, the dates of its several species of coinage, silver, gold, and copper, 16. Why labour is cheaper there than in North America, 29. The rate of population in both countries compared, ib. The produce and labour of, have gradually increased from the earliest accounts in history, while writers are representing the country as rapidly declining, 141. Enumeration of obstructions and calamities which the prosperity of the country has surmounted, ib. Circumstances that favour commerce and manufactures, 171. Laws in favour of agriculture, ib. Why formerly unable to carry on foreign wars of long duration, 180. Why the commerce with France has been subjected to so many discouragements, 202. Foundation of the enmity between these countries, ib. Translation of the commercial treaty concluded in 1703 with Portugal, 223. Inquiry into the value of the trade with Portugal, ib., 224. Might procure gold without the Portugal trade, ib. Consequences of securing the colony trade by the navigation act, 245. _Engrossing_. See _Forstalling_. _Entails_, the law of, prevents the division of land by alienation, 157. Intention of, 158. _Europe_, general review of the several nations of, as to their improvement since the discovery of