Entrepreneurship/VC Research

Title: Corporate digital responsibility (CDR) in construction engineering—ethical guidelines for the application of digital transformation and artificial intelligence (AI) in user practice

Abstract:
Abstract Digitization is developing fast and has become a powerful tool for digital planning, construction and operations, for instance digital twins. Now is the right time for constructive approaches and to apply ethics-by-design in order to develop and implement a safe and efficient artificial intelligence (AI) application. So far, no study has addressed the key research question: Where can corporate digital responsibility (CDR) be allocated, and how shall an adequate ethical framework be designed to support digital innovations in order to make full use of the potentials of digitization and AI? Therefore, the research on how best practices meet their corporate responsibility in the digital transformation process and the requirements of the EU for trustworthy AI and its human-friendly use is essential. Its transformation bears a high potential for companies, is critical for success and thus, requires responsible handling. This study generates data by conducting case studies and interviewing experts as part of the qualitative method to win profound insights into applied practice. It provides an assessment of demands stated in the Sustainable Development Goals by the United Nations (SDGs), White Papers on AI by international institutions, European Commission and German Government requesting the consideration and protection of values and fundamental rights, the careful demarcation between machine (artificial) and human intelligence and the careful use of such technologies. The study discusses digitization and the impacts of AI in construction engineering from an ethical perspective. This research critically evaluates opportunities and risks concerning CDR in construction industry. To the author’s knowledge, no study has set out to investigate how CDR in construction could be conceptualized, especially in relation to digitization and AI, to mitigate digital transformation both in large, medium- and small-sized companies. This study applies a holistic, interdisciplinary, inclusive approach to provide guidelines for orientation and examine benefits as well as risks of AI. Furthermore, the goal is to define ethical principles which are key for success, resource-cost-time efficiency and sustainability using digital technologies and AI in construction engineering to enhance digital transformation. This study concludes that innovative corporate organizations starting new business models are more likely to succeed than those dominated by a more conservative, traditional attitude.