# List of smoking bans

Smoking bans are public policies, including criminal laws and occupational safety and health regulations, which prohibit tobacco smoking in certain spaces. Laws pertaining to where people may smoke vary around the world. China and the United States, two out of five permanent members of the United Nations Security Council, do not have a nationwide smoking ban covering all public indoor areas, while the remaining three members, France, Russia, and the United Kingdom, all have national laws prohibiting smoking in many indoor spaces.

Smoking bans by country

Albania

A law came into effect on 30 May 2007 restricting smoking in closed public areas and outlawing the advertisement of tobacco, although the measure was reportedly poorly enforced in the country until 2013. From 2013, law enforcement has been implemented, and smoking is strictly forbidden in closed public areas, including bars, pubs, restaurants etc. If any of these places are caught allowing a customer to smoke, they are fined €2,200 and the person smoking is fined €350.

Andorra
Since 2004, smoking is prohibited in government buildings, educational facilities, hospitals, enclosed sport facilities and buses. In 2010, an increase in restrictions at restaurants, bars, and workplaces was under discussion.

Andorra introduced a smoking ban in all public places on 13 December 2012. However, an exception was made for bars and restaurants, allowing special smoking rooms as long as they fulfill strict conditions: such as not serving food and drink. In 2014, Andorra joined France and Spain in banning smoking indoors, which resulted in the first smoke free ski season in Andorra.

In 2017, Andorra was one of the countries with the lowest mortality rate from cardiovascular disease, whose main causes include smoking.

Argentina

Since 1 June 2011 a smoking ban in all of Argentina prohibits smoking in workplaces, all public indoor areas, schools, hospitals, museums and libraries, theatres, and all public transport. However, smoking is still allowed in balconies, terraces and patios. The law also included the prohibiting of advertising and sponsoring of tobacco. The fine for breaking the law is equivalent to 250 to 1,000,000 packets of the most expensive cigarettes in the market.

Armenia

A law came into effect in March 2005 prohibiting smoking in hospitals, in cultural, educational and mental institutions, and on public transportation. On 1 March 2006, new rules came into effect requiring all public and private institutions, including bars and restaurants, to allow smoking only in special secluded areas. Absence of any legal sanctions against those who violate the smoking laws has made them completely ineffective. Tobacco advertising is prohibited in TV, radio and outdoor advertising. Other sources of advertising on newspapers, magazines of tobacco products is not fully restricted. Sponsorships are partially allowed in Armenia.

In 2012, Armenia had the third-highest rate of male cigarette smokers in the world. On 11 January 2017, the Eurasian Economic Commission said that starting mid-March 2017, graphic pictures would be implemented on the packaging of cigarettes in all Eurasian Economic Union member states.

An anti-smoking law was passed by the Armenian parliament in February 2020. It bans smoking while driving cars or buses and imposes a ban on tobacco advertising. The ban on smoking in cafes, restaurants and other public catering facilities has entered into force in March 2022. The ban on smoking in half-closed premises of public catering facilities will come into force in May 2024. Meanwhile, the ban on smoking in hotels came into force in May 2020.

Australia 

In Australia, smoking bans are determined on a state-by-state basis. In chronological order by state:

The first place smoking was banned in Victoria was in 1990 when Councillor John Huntley (a smoker) moved a motion to ban smoking in the Shire of Orbost offices.
The motion was carried and Orbost was the first public office that had a smoking ban.

 South Australia: Smoking prohibited in all indoor dining areas since January 1999. Banned in all enclosed public places since November 2007.
 Western Australia: Incremental restrictions introduced from January 2005 with a comprehensive total restriction upon smoking in all enclosed public spaces taking effect from July 2006.
 Tasmania: Total indoor smoking ban in force since January 2006. From January 2008 the regulations were extended to include smoking in cars with passengers under the age of 18.
 Queensland: Comprehensive smoking ban in effect since July 2006. Smoking is prohibited in all pubs, clubs, restaurants and workplaces, commercial outdoor eating and drinking areas, outdoor public places, and within 5 metres of non-residential building entrances.
 Australian Capital Territory: A restriction upon smoking in enclosed public places has been in effect since December 2006.
 Victoria: A restriction upon smoking in enclosed public places has been in effect since July 2007. It is also an offence to smoke in a vehicle where there is a person under the age of 18 present, since January 2010. Smoking is still Permitted in all drinking areas providing it is 25% Outdoors and meals are not being served. Private cigar bars and certain rooms of the Crown Casino still permitted smoking in fully enclosed areas providing it has a proper ventilation system.
 New South Wales: A restriction upon smoking in all enclosed areas of restaurants, licensed clubs and pubs came into force in July 2007. From 1 July 2009, smoking in a car with a child under the age of 16 is against the law. The Public Health (Tobacco) Act 2008 creates a new offence of smoking in a car with a child under 16 years of age in the vehicle. A$250 on-the-spot fine applies to the driver and any passenger who breaks the law. This is enforced by NSW Police.
 Northern Territory: Certain restrictions upon smoking in enclosed areas of restaurants, licensed clubs and pubs came into force on 2 January 2010.
Norfolk Island: Smoking is banned in all government buildings, tour buses, taxis and flights to and from the island. There is no law on smoking in restaurants but many are smokefree, however, they often have a dedicated smoking room for people that wish to smoke. Smoking is permitted in all bars and licensed premises. Resorts and motels have smoking rooms and areas for smokers.

Smoking has been banned in all prisons in Queensland, the Northern Territory, Tasmania, Victoria, and New South Wales since 2015. While South Australia is due to follow in 2019, smoking is still permitted in prison cells in Western Australia and the Australian Capital Territory.

Austria
In 2009, smoking was prohibited by law in all enclosed public spaces and educational institutions. The 2009 law granted certain exceptions for eating and drinking establishments as well as workplaces if no employee works in the enclosed space objects. Smoking was banned on trains and in railway stations when Germany introduced a similar smoking ban in 2007.
The 2009 law mandated that all restaurants, bars, discos, and pubs larger than 50 m2 had to be either be non-smoking or introduce separate smoking rooms. Below 50 m2 the owner could opt to make the establishment either a smoking or non-smoking place. The law provided for a long transition phase ending July 2010. The 2009 law was a subject of controversy, as the rules were widely ignored by bar owners and not actively enforced by the authorities. Anti-smoking campaigners claimed to have filed 18,000 reports with the authorities on non-compliant businesses since the bans were introduced, to little effect.

In December 2017, after a change in government – under the coalition of the centre-right ÖVP and the far-right FPÖ – an already passed bill banning smoking in all restaurants, bars, discos and pubs from May 2018 was repealed and the prior rules reinstated with some minor changes.
 In July 2019, after another change in government – under a technocratic government led by Chancellor Brigitte Bierlein – the parliament decided to reintroduce the strict ban for all types of restaurants, bars, discos, and pubs from 1 November 2019.

Bahrain
In 2008, the Bahrain government introduced anti-smoking laws indoor public areas, including restaurants, cafes, hair salons, shopping malls and public transport. The law was highlighted by the ban of smoking in private cars when there are children.

The law could be implemented in the following points:

 Planting and manufacturing tobacco in Bahrain.
 Cigarette vending machines.
 Tobacco to be sold to anyone under the age of 18.
 The importing of chewable-based tobacco products.
 Smoking at closed public places, including airports, hotels, supermarkets and schools.
 'No smoking' signs must be displayed prominently where there is a ban.

Barbados
Barbados has a smoking ban in place in indoor public places, workplaces and public transport.

Belgium
 1989: Smoking is prohibited in a list