# Religious views on love

Religious views on love vary widely between different religions.

Specific religious views

Abrahamic religions

Baháʼí Faith

Bahá'u'lláh, founder of the Baháʼí Faith, taught that God created humans due to his love for them, and thus humans should in turn love God. `Abdu'l-Bahá, Bahá'u'lláh's son, wrote that love is the greatest power in the world of existence and the true source of eternal happiness.  The Baháʼí teachings state that all genuine love is divine, and that love proceeds from God and from humans.  God's love is taught to be part of his own essence, and his love for his creatures gives them their material existence, divine grace and eternal life.

The Baháʼí teachings state that human love is directed towards both God and other humans; that the love of God attracts the individual toward God, by purifying the human heart and preparing it for the revelation of divine grace.  Thus through the love of God, humans become transformed and become self-sacrificing. It is also stated that true love for other humans occurs when people see the beauty of God in other people's souls. The Baháʼí teachings state that Baháʼís should love all humans regardless of religion, race or community, and also should love their enemies.

Christian
Most Christians also believe that God is the source and essence of eternal love, even if in the New Testament the expression "God is love" explicitly occurs only twice and in two not too distant verses: 1 John  (NIV).

Most Christians believe that the greatest commandment is "thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind, and with all thy strength: this is the first commandment"; in addition to the second, "thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself", these are what Jesus Christ called the two greatest commandments (see Mark 12:28–34, Luke 10:25–28, Matthew 22:37–39, Matthew 7:12; cf. Deuteronomy 6:5, Deuteronomy 11:13, Deuteronomy 11:22, Leviticus 19:18, Leviticus 19:34). See also Ministry of Jesus#General ethics.

In the Gospel of John, Jesus said: "A new command I give you: Love one another. As I have loved you, so you must love one another. By this all men will know that you are my disciples, if you love one another." (NIV, John 13:34–35; cf. John 15:17). Jesus also taught "Love your enemies." (Matthew 5:44, Luke 6:27).

The New Testament, which was written in Greek, only used two Greek words for love: agapē and philia. However, there are several Greek words for love.
Agapē. In the New Testament, agapē is charitable, selfless, altruistic, and unconditional. It is parental love seen as creating goodness in the world, it is the way God is seen to love humanity, and it is seen as the kind of love that Christians aspire to have for others.
Philia. Also used in the New Testament, philia is a human response to something that is found to be delightful.  Also known as "brotherly love".
Eros (sexual love) is never used in the New Testament but is more prominent in the Old Testament.
Storge (needy child-to-parent love) only appears in the compound word philostorgos (Rom 12:10).

Saint Paul glorifies agapē in the quote above from 1 Corinthians 13, and as the most important virtue of all: "Love never fails. But where there are prophecies, they will cease; where there are tongues, they will be stilled; where there is knowledge, it will pass away." (13:8 NIV).

Christians believe that because of God's agapē for humanity He sacrificed his Son for them. John the Apostle wrote, "For God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. For God sent not his Son into the world to condemn the world; but that the world through him might be saved." (John 3:16–17 KJV)

In Works of Love (1847), Søren Kierkegaard, a philosopher, claimed that Christianity is unique because love is a requirement.

Regarding love for enemies, Jesus is quoted in the Gospel of Matthew chapter five:

“You have heard that it was said, ‘Love your neighbor and hate your enemy.’  But I tell you, love your enemies and pray for those who persecute you, that you may be children of your Father in heaven.  He causes his sun to rise on the evil and the good, and sends rain on the righteous and the unrighteous.  If you love those who love you, what reward will you get?  Are not even the tax collectors doing that?  And if you greet only your own people, what are you doing more than others?  Do not even pagans do that?  Be perfect, therefore, as your heavenly Father is perfect.”
- Matthew 5: 43-48

Tertullian wrote regarding love for enemies: “Our individual, extraordinary, and perfect goodness consists in loving our enemies.  To love one's friends is common practice, to love one's enemies only among Christians.”

Latter-day Saints

According to Russell M. Nelson, there are examples of the love of Jesus in the Book of Mormon.

First there is a covenant with Christ. King Benjamin stated in the Book of Mosiah:

Then there are the ordinances of the gospel. Jesus stated in the Book of Mormon in Third Nephi:

And at last Jesus exhorts us to follow his example:

Moroni, the last prophet of the book, wrote about love:

Unificationism

The concept of True Love is the most central part of Unificationist theology:

Islam

In the Sahih Muslim Hadith, the Prophet Muhammad is reported to have said: “You will not enter paradise until you believe, and you will not believe until you love to the other muslim what you love to your self.”

Muslims are directed by Allah ('God') in the ways to become close to Him and how to gain His love.

God loves those who:
do good.
are pure and clean.
are righteous.
are just and act rightly.
trust Him.
are patient and persevering.
love Him and follow the Prophet.
fight in His cause.

The Qur'an also says that God loved Moses, and God Himself will produce people He will love.

Here in this selection of verses we notice again the Arabic preference for the negative to state an opposite. While the following do not state that God hates, it certainly enforces the idea that the love of God is withheld from those who practice certain deeds or are described as manifesting a certain character. Several of the verses are repetitious and so we have the following categories.

God does not love:
the mua'tadeen, those who overstep boundaries or limits.
the mushrikeen, those who associates anything with God. 
the fasideen, those who spread corruption or mischief.
the kafireen, the unbelievers.
the dalemeen, the wrongdoers or oppressors.
the musarifeen, the wasteful.
the proud and boastful.
those who boast in their riches.
the treacherous.
those who are given to crime and to evil speaking.

Ahmadiyya

According to the Ahmadi Muslims,(ahmaddiys are not considered Muslims) love of the creatures of God is essential for all Muslims. Ahmadi Muslims express that the Qur'an was sent as a gift to mankind, and its teachings are filled with love, tolerance and respect. The founder of the Ahmadiyya sect in Islam, Mirza Ghulam Ahmad said:
The task for which God has appointed me is that I should remove the malaise that afflicts the relationship between God and His creatures and restore the relationship of love and sincerity between them. Through the proclamation of truth and by putting an end to religious conflicts, I should bring about peace and manifest the Divine verities that have become hidden from the eyes of the world. I am called upon to demonstrate spirituality which lies buried under egoistic darkness. It is for me to demonstrate by practice, and not by words alone, the Divine powers which penetrate into a human being and are manifested through prayer or attention. Above all, it ismy task to re-establish in people’s hearts the eternal plant of the pure and shining Unity of God which is free from every impurity of polytheism, and which has now completely disappeared. All this will be accomplished, not through my power, but through the power of the Almighty God, Who is the God of heaven and earth.

Jewish

In Hebrew Ahava is the most Commonly used term for both interpersonal love of family and love of God. Other related but dissimilar terms are chen (grace, good will, kindness) and chesed (kindness, love), which basically combines the meaning of "affection" and "compassion" and is sometimes rendered in English as "loving-kindness" or "steadfast love."

As for love between marital partners, this is deemed an essential ingredient to life: "See life with the wife you love" (Ecclesiastes 9:9). The Biblical book Song of Songs is considered a romantically phrased metaphor of love between God and his people, but in its plain reading reads like a love song.

Indian-origin religions

Indian-origin religions, namely Hinduism, Buddhism, Jainism and Sikhism,are also collectively called the "indic religions" and "dharma dhamma", share many core beliefs including there is no concept of apostasy or blasphemy and hence no concept of punishment fo