# Balšić noble family

The House of Balšić (), or Balsha (), were a noble family that ruled "Zeta and the coastlands" (current-day southern Montenegro and northern Albania), from 1362 to 1421, during and after the fall of the Serbian Empire. Balša, the founder, was a petty nobleman who held only one village during the rule of Emperor Dušan the Mighty (r. 1331–1355), and only after the death of the emperor, his three sons gained power in Lower Zeta after acquiring the lands of gospodin Žarko (fl. 1336–1360) under unclear circumstances, and they then expanded into Upper Zeta by murdering voivode and čelnik Đuraš Ilijić (r. 1326–1362†). Nevertheless, they were acknowledged as oblastni gospodari of Zeta in edicts of Emperor Uroš the Weak (r. 1355–1371). After the death of Uroš (1371), the family feuded with the Mrnjavčevići, who controlled Macedonia.

When the last lord of the noble house, Balša III died in 1421 without a heir, his possessions were passed on to his uncle, Despot Stefan the Tall. Later that year, the Republic of Venice took advantage of Balša's death and seized the towns of Bar and Ulcinj, and some of his other territories were seized by the Ottomans and Bosnians.

Origin 
The origin of the eponymous founder of the Balšić family – Balša I – is obscure and several hypotheses about it have been put forward by modern scholars. Contemporary medieval sources provide evidence for the Albanian ethnic belonging of the Balšić family members, and the description of the Balšas as Albanian lords stands in current scholarship, while on the other hand a number of scholars consider them of Serbian or of otherwise Slavic origin. Both Serbian and Albanian authors claim them.

Contemporary sources
In medieval Serbian documents the Balšas are referred to as "Arbanas lords". The well-known Bulgarian biographer of the 15th century, Constantine the Philosopher, who lived in the court of the Serbian ruler Stefan Lazarević, refers to Đurađ II Balšić and Balša III as Albanian lords. Even historical sources from Ragusa document the Albanian ethnic affiliation of the Balša family. Indeed they mention "the Albanian customs of the Balša". In the funds of the Ragusan archives the Balsha are one of the extremely present Arbanon families. Furthermore, the Ottomans referred to Đurađ II Balšić as "ruler of Albanian Shkodra". Also the Hungarian king Sigismund, when he met him personally in 1396, called him "ruler of Albania". One contemporary archival source in Vienna Archives mentions Balša II as "ruler of Albanians" during the Battle of Kosovo 1389.

According to one testimony from 1386 of the Balšićs themselves, they connect their origins with the Nemanjić dynasty. Balša II from Shkodër, in the charter to the citizens of Republic of Ragusa from January 27, 1385 said: "... prayers and supplications of my holy ancestors Simeon Nemanja, the first myrrh-bearer of Serbia and Saint Sava ..." In a charter, most likely written in Republic of Ragusa, Đurađ II Balšić mentions his ancestors, Nemanja and Sava, and connects himself with them. The fragmental assertions that their progenitor descended from "Emperor Nemanja", and that he held the area of Bojana river in the neighborhood of Shkodër are very uncertain.

Modern historiography
In current scholarship many historians consider the Balša as being part of the local Albanian nobility. According to Malcolm, the Balšići were probably of Albanian stock who had been but culturally Serbianized to a large degree. Ćirković concluded that they are of non-Slavic origin, being referred to in medieval Serbian documents as "Albanian (arbanas) lords". Murzaku says that the family had an Albanian origin. Madgearu mentions the Balšić as a noble Albanian family, however he states that their Albanian origin is unclear, due to the debate over the family's origin. Bartl mentions the Balšić as a noble family of probably Serbian origin. Elsie mentions them as of "probably Slavic origin". Gelichi considers them Serbian-Montenegrin. Winnifrith states that they were Slavs who fought other Albanians. Brendan Osswald has described them as Serbian, as does Iordachi. Bojka Djukanovic describes them as a "Montenegrin family" about whose origin there are no reliable sources. According to Elizabeth Roberts, whether their origins were Serbian, Albanian, or both, has never been conclusively established, but they were "culturally Serbianized". Other Montenegrin authors consider them to be a Montenegrin dynasty as well.

In older scholarship, Karl Hopf (1832–1873) considered "unquestionably part of the Serb tribe". Ivan Stepanovich Yastrebov (1839–1894), Russian Consul in Shkodër and Prizren, when speaking of the Balšići, connected their name to the Roman town of Balletium (Baleč) located near modern Shkodër which delivers from Illyrian, related to the Albanian term ballë. According to Serbian historian Ilarion Ruvarac, "The Balšić were in no way Serbs but Albanians, regardless of whether they were Albanians or Vlachs in their distant origins". Serbian historian Vladimir Ćorović (1885–1941) concluded, based on their name, that they had Roman (Vlach) origin.  Croatian ethnologist Milan Šufflay (1879–1931) mentioned them as of "Romanian and Vlach origin". Croatian linguist Petar Skok considered them to have been of Vlach origin, and Serbian historian Milena Gecić supported his theory. Giuseppe Gelcich theorized on the origin in his La Zedda e la dinastia dei Balšidi: studi storici documentati (1899). The theory, which was later adopted by Čedomilj Mijatović, argued that they were descendants of the Frankish nobleman Bertrand III of Baux, a companion of Charles d'Anjou. It is regarded as highly improbable. German linguist Gustav Weigand (1860–1930) supported a mixed Albanian–Aromanian origin after he noted that the family name was included in a list of early Albanian surnames in Romania.

History 

The Balšić family was first mentioned in a charter of Emperor Stefan Uroš V, dated 29 September 1360. 
According to Mavro Orbini (writing in 1601), Balša, the eponymous founder, was a petty nobleman that held only one village in the area of Lake Skadar during the rule of Emperor Dušan the Mighty (r. 1331-1355). Only after the death of the emperor, Balša and his three sons gained power in Lower Zeta after acquiring the lands of gospodin Žarko (fl. 1336-1360) and by murdering voivode and čelnik Đuraš Ilijić (r. 1326-1362†), the holders of Lower and Upper Zeta, respectively. Balša dies the same year, and his sons, the Balšić brothers, continue in ruling the province spanning Podgorica, Budva, Bar and Shkodër.

The Balšići managed to elevate themselves from petty nobility to provincial lords. They created their own state or state-like entity, comprising Zeta, and the cities of Shkodër, Drisht, Tivar, Ulqin, and Budva. Subsequently they managed to expand their rule over a large portion of Albanian territory, from Tivari to Prizren, and from Vlorë to Berat. Hence they became the chiefs of the largest feudal polity in northern Albania during the 14th century to the 15th century. The administrative and political center of Balša's feudal entity between 1355 and 1396 was the city of Shkodër, which also became the main center of a wide interregional economic network.

Between 1368 and 1389 the Balsha owned their own ships and operated as Albanian pirates. Because of their anti-Ottoman attitude, the pirate activity of these Albanian lords was tolerated by the Republic of Venice. However, they limited Venice's operations.

Heads
 Balša I ( 1360–62)
 Đurađ I (1362–1378), [Lord of] Shkodër
 Balša II (1378–1385), [Lord of] Shkodër and Durrës
 Đurađ II (1385–1403), [Lord of] Shkodër, Budva, Podgorica, Durrës, Drisht and Lezhë, Autokrat of Zeta and the coastlands
 Balša III (1403–1421), [Lord of] Bar

Family tree

Simplified family tree:

Balša I ( 1360–62)
Stracimir
 Đurađ II Balšić
 Balša III
Đurađ I, married Olivera Mrnjavčević (1st) and Teodora Dejanović (2nd)
Jelisaveta or Jelisanta (d. 1443), Olivera's daughter
Gojslava or Goisava (d. 1398), married Radič Sanković, lord of Nevesinje, Popovo Polje and Konavli
Jevdokija, married Esau de' Buondelmonti, the ruler of Epirus (1385–1411)
 Giorgio de' Buondelmonti, ruler of Epirus 1411
Konstantin, married Helena Thopia
 Stefan Balšić "Maramonte" (fl. 1419–40), pretender to Zeta
Jelena or Elena
 Đurađ or Gjergj (illegitimate)
George
Ivan
 Gojko
Balša II
 Ruđina
Vojislava or Voisava, married Karl Thopia, the "Prince of Albania", with whom she had one son, Gjergj Thopia, Duke of Durazzo, and two daughters, Helena Thopia, Lady of Krujë, married Konstantin Balšić, and Vojislava

Notes

References

Bibliography

External links
 Rodoslovlje, Balšić

 
People from the Serbian Empire
Medieval Montenegro
League of Lezhë
Principality of Zeta