Entrepreneurship/VC Research

Title: World City Innovation and Service Networks and Economic Growth

Abstract:
In addition to their often-cited role as global service hubs, world cities are also global innovation hubs with their connectivity in knowledge networks crucial for the innovation clusters they harbour. While both aspects of world cities' global connectivity may allow their urban economies to grow, we argue that specialization in one of these two networks may increase economic performance. We provide systematic evidence of this substitution effect by examining the changing positions of 129 world cities in inter-city innovation and service firm networks (2000–2012). Fixed effects panel analysis of city GDP growth confirm that the two networks are partial substitutes. Además de su papel, citado a menudo, como centros globales de servicios, las ciudades en todo el mundo son también centros globales de innovación, con su conectividad en redes de conocimiento cruciales para los núcleos de innovación que albergan. Aunque ambos aspectos de la conectividad global de las ciudades en todo el mundo pueden permitir el crecimiento de sus economías urbanas, se sostiene que la especialización en una de estas dos redes puede mejorar el desempeño económico. Se proporcionan pruebas sistemáticas de este efecto de sustitución examinando las posiciones cambiantes de 129 ciudades de todo el mundo en las redes de innovación y empresas de servicios entre ciudades (2000–2012). El análisis de panel de efectos fijos del crecimiento del PIB de las ciudades confirma que las dos redes son parcialmente sustitutivas. 世界の都市は、そのグローバル・サービス・ハブとしての役割を引き合いに出されることが多いが、さらには世界の都市に存在するイノベーション・クラスターにとって不可欠な知識ネットワークにつながるグローバル・イノベーション・ハブでもある。世界の都市のグローバルな連結性の2つの側面が都市経済の成長を可能にすると考えられるが、我々は、この2つのネットワークのうちの1つに特化することが経済状況を向上させる可能性があると考える。本稿では、世界の129都市における都市間協力によるイノベーション及びサービス企業のネットワークの位置変化(2000~2012年)を分析することにより、この代替効果の系統的レビューによるエビデンスを提示する。都市のGDP成長率の固定効果パネル分析から、2つのネットワークが部分代替であることが確認される。 The scientific interest in the strategic position of cities in worldwide economic networks has led to an expanding and diverse academic literature (Ren & Keil, 2017; Van Meeteren et al., 2016). One of the most prominent foci in this literature is the formal analysis of the global connectivity of “world cities” or “global cities” (Beaverstock et al., 2000). For example, in research carried out under the umbrella of the Globalization and World cities (GaWC) research network, world city connectivity has been measured based on cities' insertion in the office networks of globalized producer services firms (e.g., Derudder & Taylor, 2020). There are, of course, other ways in which cities are globally connected (Breul, 2019). World cities are also often innovation hubs (OECD, 2011), occupying a central position in the myriad knowledge flows underlying co-invention and scientific collaboration networks (Belderbos, Benoit, et al., 2022; Matthiessen et al., 2010). Such knowledge flows and collaborations have been the subject of a growing literature stream examining the features of metropolitan knowledge and co-inventor networks (e.g., Bettencourt et al., 2007; Breschi & Lenzi, 2016; van der Wouden & Rigby, 2019). Despite obvious conceptual and analytical parallels between the study of world cities through the lens of producer services and knowledge networks, both strands of research have developed largely independent from each other. The current paper seeks to address this lack of cross-fertilization by juxtaposing and comparing major cities' position in both networks and by analysing their simultaneous and interrelated association with economic growth. While the literature on regional knowledge networks has examined their performance effects, prior studies have predominantly taken innovation rather than economic growth as performance measure (e.g., Capone et al., 2021; De Noni et al., 2018; Innocenti et al., 2020). Meanwhile, the simultaneous and potentially overlapping influence of service networks has not received attention. Based on extant theory and prior empirical studies, we hypothesize that both types of global connectivity underpin GDP growth, but that resource constraints and economies of specialization may render both contributions partial substitutes. To test this hypothesis, we draw on systematic evidence on the (changing) connectivity of world cities: (i) in producer services firms networks using GaWC data (the world city services network—WCSN); and (ii) in innovation networks using data on patented co-inventions across cities (the world city innovation network—WCIN). We examine linkages across 129 world cities located in 76 countries and calculate connectivity by means of an established network analysis indicator: weighted degree centrality. This produces city-level indicators that can be compared across cities and for different time periods—here we focus on trends between 2000 and 2012. We observe parallels between cities' roles in both networks, but also key differences suggesting specialization advantages. We examine the latter by estimating panel fixed effects models of the association of cities' GDP change with WCSN and WCIN connectivity, the lagged value of GDP, and a set of control variables. Empirical results show that both networks are indeed partial substitutes, suggesting that specialization in one of the two networks may improve the economic performance of cities. The main contributions of this paper are threefold. First, we contribute to the literature's increasing focus on “the multiple globalizations of cities,” emphasizing that world cities can function as anchoring points for very different types of global flows. Second, we show that cities' connectivity in the WCSN and WCIN have simultaneous positive consequences for economic growth, but that specialization in one of these networks may be most effective. And third and finally, we develop a set of new metrics—co-invention based indicators of WCIN—that allow for a direct measurement of the intensity of flows across urban geographies.1 Prior research suggests that, in spite of heterogeneity and specialization among world cities, a range of characteristics regularly re-emerge: the presence of producer services firms, a cosmopolitan environment, the presence of multinational corporations (MNCs), and a high degree of connectivity with other cities (e.g., Belderbos et al., 2017; Belderbos et al., 2020; Goerzen et al., 2013). World cities also host a disproportionate number of expatriates, skilled employees, and major universities (Castells, 2000), and attract skilled workers both from surrounding areas and globally as they offer the promise of a wide range of job opportunities and higher salaries (Verginer & Riccaboni, 2021). Empirical analyses of global city connectivity are built on specifications and operationalizations of (some of) these putatively shared characteristics. A major strand of research is premised on the observation that world cities are connected through the offices of globally operating producer services firms: the suite of measures developed in the context of GaWC estimate cities' global connectivity in what can be called a “world city services network” (WCSN) (Derudder & Taylor, 2018). The approach combines Sassen's (1991) work on the centrality of producer services in the economic resurgence of cities such as New York, London, and Tokyo from the 1980s onwards with Castells's (1996) writings on the network logic underlying world city-formation. The most often used GaWC measure, global network connectivity, is a de facto weighted degree centrality measure derived from a specification focusing on their insertion in the office networks of globalized producer firms (Taylor, 2001). The approach relies on a number of assumptions, such as the notion that offices of the same firm in two cities generate substantive workflows and larger offices will generate more of these flows. The approach has seen empirical and methodological diversification, as shown by the introduction of alternative connectivity measures (Neal, 2011) and different network specifications (Hennemann & Derudder, 2014).2 A different strand of literature starts from the truism that cities have always played a crucial role in the development of innovations (Bairoch, 1988; Jacobs, 1984). Today, major world cities are unsurprisingly recognized as strategic clusters of innovation in the global with cities such as and New high on of innovation performance such as the number of and scientific & 2020; Matthiessen et al., 2010). the presence of of et al., and firms, world cities are key and of innovation and knowledge (Belderbos, Benoit, et al., of firms and the of of and networks that the of and knowledge et al., 2016; and in world cities. This the of et al., 2007; Innocenti et al., 2020; van der Wouden & Rigby, through knowledge and the of and & Lenzi, 2016; in knowledge is in development as this new in and innovation through knowledge et al., Capone et al., 2021; Innocenti et al., 2020). the of the WCSN is also on cities are in a world city innovation network innovation is and by in this through inter-city collaborations with an often global et al., 2022; Matthiessen et al., 2010). This global can cities a and of knowledge that their et al., has been empirical research on world cities' position in the WCIN formal network In this we develop such a and with from the more established WCSN services contribute to economic growth by their role in regional and job and their high to be The of producer services to and effects to the regional these direct producer services also contribute to growth by and multinational firms in and (e.g., or and the and of such firms et al., Today, most not not for the presence of a range of producer services also contribute to economic growth. The presence and networks of producer services firms provide a for from job opportunities and higher salaries (e.g., et al., and the global of the economic that are connected in the WCSN function as of and control for global networks more et al., with these cities, for service and et al., 2013). the presence of producer services firms an economic for global as they offer knowledge and and the of global and control et al., 2017; Goerzen et al., 2013). This presence has more time as firms are their to producer services firms & While producer services their to of they have to new often the in global & 2000), their role in urban In a diverse and connected producer services an economic of firms, and et al., 2017; et al., We connectivity of a world city in the World (WCSN) is with economic growth. knowledge can provide cities with and knowledge that are not & allow for increasing the of the knowledge innovation & 2007; & 2010). This in innovation & et al., and to economic growth et al., 2020). The economic of in knowledge networks can be For example, myriad in knowledge networks can cities a of which networks of knowledge and et al., and the of new with knowledge et al., 2007; van der Wouden & Rigby, which in innovation performance & Lenzi, De Noni et al., 2018; Innocenti et al., 2020). This of knowledge is by inter-city of and resource flows through both formal and between and between or & 2001). can across through (e.g., by a or work linkages or are by firms in an to the of and knowledge flows between cities & 2013). inter-city knowledge have been to be for cities to in that regional et al., to changing The of innovations and knowledge for growth (Belderbos, & and economic & The diverse knowledge and innovation through with other innovation clusters knowledge in a to et al., 2016; & or et al., to knowledge for innovation can also through the introduction of new and the and economic growth et al., of a We connectivity of a world city in the World is with economic growth. are the consequences of a in both WCSN and that producer services a focus on and they contribute to and innovation and services firms often multinational et al., co-inventor networks are more diverse and in different to knowledge development and innovation et al., 2021; et al., 2022; van der 2020). increasing inter-city for in these a specialization in one of these networks may allow for effects and a value of network for the economic growth of the Such specialization has both networks to for city such as office in and skilled (e.g., & Goerzen et al., 2013). in has a resource to the of global innovation and the increasing to knowledge in both types of networks & cities are connected in the this may render more to in growth through WCIN and in both networks to the of economic as network may the to network flows. We WCSN and WCIN of a world city each positive association with economic growth. We draw on the developed by the Globalization and World research network et al., to world cities. to this cities are to based on their of and We cities that have been as or cities in the GaWC from 2000 to and that have on the WCSN (Derudder & Taylor, 2016). The and cities a wide of cities, such that is a wide in their WCSN positions to analysis of the consequences of cities' network position and the for economic performance. 129 cities in 76 The WCSN data are for in the In the of cities' position in WCSN and WCIN we focus on the 2000 and 2012. We the of each world city based on the urban developed by the et al., of metropolitan areas are as they are based on that not with the economic of the using and flows as key a is as a urban with a surrounding of which the is with the (OECD, This to a of cities that a of cities across countries and the of knowledge clusters & 2016). For cities in which we the city using the same based on and time between urban areas and surrounding using and the We used the of the to and This worldwide offices major countries such as the and We of by by they are in multiple or in multiple on the and of We of on each to to cities and to collaboration et al., 2016; & with with the metropolitan as city by the of the We and their of which one in one of the 129 world cities. on indicators from and using The data used to develop WCIN indicators have the that they are in the that they have been and by a they also from a number of et al., not are across firms and and patented in their economic and in countries may and measured co-inventor in the may contribute to the in and collaboration Despite these the indicators also have a range of key in to other indicators used to measure city First, the a for of indicators are by and new of producer services firms and potentially the with these are not for their a more systematic analysis and measurement of changing urban rather than a change in data (Derudder & Taylor, 2016; et al., 2021). data are and an more measure compared to Second, of that knowledge and flows are between offices located in different (Derudder & Taylor, offer a more direct of knowledge as is not to a knowledge (e.g., & the WCIN indicators the partial of linkages of metropolitan that can be by the focus on firms, of which the are in of larger data co-inventions of and firms as as multinational data a measurement of the of as the same between cities can multiple and cities' have growth The co-invention on global an inter-city network of co-invention In the inter-city innovation network, the are the of the network the collaborations are the that measure of WCIN is the most used of weighted degree centrality This has the that results can be compared with WCSN (Derudder & Taylor, as the latter is To test we GDP growth of world cities to their prior of WCSN and WCIN as as the between both network We panel data and to these We estimate models with city fixed effects to control for to measure city which of by variables. The specification also be to to the focus on a set of world cities. can of cities is with the of the as as with the et al., 2016). we fixed effects these control for the influence of such city may time network positions may in economic growth, with the degree of this we a specification with a and specification of between and We as and a one between the of GDP and the of WCSN and This that the between the network indicators and GDP from between the of the GDP and the of the network the of the GDP and the of the network data on the WCSN are and for the and we the of We growth by the (the observation on GDP as an the panel GDP for city and effects in city performance et al., We measure GDP in of in and WCSN indicators are taken from Derudder and We a set of city control to To control for urban and economies or we the of the is to effects of the such as increasing and et al., The of on as a of is as a for the presence of skilled We control for the presence of a in the city by the of city in The intensity of innovation and knowledge in the city is measured by the number of in the city There is measure for the intensity of in the but we can an for the of these the number of direct in in the city on are from the is to control for and on GDP, service and on the from the of and independent are that we can the as for a cities which and data on control the for analysis cities. The WCIN and WCSN indicators are they are in the that the independent effect of WCIN (WCSN) in the with the their influence as in the of WCSN The of the on GDP is a of the of the on GDP is a of which for of lagged on the network the analysis for for a of and are in and are shown in between the independent are with the between the network indicators and lagged GDP The other control such as and intensity have with the network The of these as and to et al., 2020). range between to lagged The that we estimate fixed effects is of the rather and than the may We WCIN results and these with WCSN results for the 2000 and 2012. we results of the analysis cities' economic growth to the of both types of network data on the WCSN and WCIN indicators for the of the 129 cities in 2000 and 2012. We observe a of and cities in the The most connected cities are in the York, and with their largely which New as the connected city in 2012. We observe an increase in the of cities, with the of cities, with and the of and cities. A number of cities have connected time (e.g., and (e.g., and The WCSN in show a of and cities, with London, New York, and Tokyo as the most connected cities. cities are most and cities, to the WCIN connected cities are in the and In spite of obvious is also heterogeneity in cities' of WCSN and for is an innovation with of a as an service in the WCIN is in of WCSN cities in often higher on the WCIN indicators compared with their WCSN To a more systematic both by cities' positions in on their or the in the WCSN and WCIN in 2012. the of the association between both indicators show that these are positive and and for 2000 and This also from the of cities located in the or the high on both indicators are predominantly located in (e.g., and (e.g., and and New with and as A number of cities in high on WCIN but on WCSN (e.g., and are in the that high on but on WCIN the cities from cities in the and are in the which cities with of WCSN and the cities with the growth or in the WCIN and this with changing of WCSN as in Derudder and as as the growth in WCIN and WCSN across cities. The number of inter-city co-inventor measured by the WCIN has by between 2000 and on the measured growth in WCSN connectivity is The growth in the WCIN is in cities, with increasing weighted network centrality with a of are also for cities such as and and cities such as and of the cities with in the WCIN also for the WCSN and In of the growing and cities in of their WCIN a or growth in the WCSN and in innovation network positions are and cities with WCIN indicators are located in (e.g., New York, and or (e.g., London, and The of these cities also growth in their WCSN cities with WCIN growth in WCSN and different in the WCSN and WCIN indicators across cities are the of in the systematic analysis of the between economic growth and innovation and service network position of cities the the control results with the The with to lagged GDP is in GDP growth an both the of urban and the effects of through and high is not a positive in economic growth, with (e.g., Belderbos et al., The of the is the but this that for cities such as and a The of service show positive and effects, is in models and the WCSN the WCIN both indicators and the WCSN and WCIN are positive and in for and The effect between the indicators is and in as by The effect of WCSN and WCIN in show of and that a increase in WCSN or WCIN is with an GDP increase of and the of WCIN and The a in the of WCSN the of WCIN (WCSN) is a higher than the The range of are in and WCIN two the the of WCSN to and with WCIN two the the to The of WCIN has a to WCSN is and to WCSN is substitution effects of the two networks in of the association with economic growth. We a number of alternative models to examine the of While specification a between the of GDP and the of the network we also models with this to two and to with for the and We also models with a measure of (the number of of the intensity measure, as has been to innovation performance (e.g., Bettencourt et al., 2007; Capone et al., 2021). for the but the not This may be to the that the measure not the of the measure world cities are by heterogeneity and they one crucial the presence of global In we research in which producer service firms are key of global connectivity with an approach focusing on flows of knowledge and innovation based on We the two of global cities' connectivity to their simultaneous and interrelated association with economic growth. We argue that both aspects of world cities' global connectivity may allow their economies to grow, specialization in one of both networks may improve the economic performance of cities. We this literature's growing for different types of global connectivity In addition to this conceptual focus on inter-city innovation networks also an analytical we argue that the of co-inventor linkages firm et al., such as more more direct of knowledge and to a focus on We show the growing of collaboration and knowledge in the the number of co-inventor with other world cities has on by between 2000 and 2012. in WCIN to a from to with for (e.g., and and (e.g., and cities for and cities. This is as (e.g., and and (e.g., and cities also show Tokyo a in the trends in the world city innovation network are to for WCSN (Derudder & Taylor, also are and high in the WCSN but on the WCIN is a key for knowledge and innovation in the world and the city in WCIN but in This suggests specialization of a position in one of the two We examined the of specialization in by estimating panel fixed effects models of the association of cities' GDP growth with the two network indicators WCSN and results confirm that both networks contribute to economic growth, the two networks are partial substitutes. contribute to the literature on regional growth & et al., as we the between cities' economic growth and their connectivity as a key of and regional & While prior work has on the consequences of innovation or producer service for cities' economic growth (e.g., et al., 2020; et al., we show that is a simultaneous and in network connectivity and the & economic growth, a specialization in one of such network is to be can also be for For example, may be of for focusing on specialization et al., and the economic growth which has the to the connectivity of cities in to increase economic growth and and the for cities and to their growth on In this that is a for in that simultaneous in network types will economic growth. There are also to First, we the address can be as not offices this Second, network indicators such as degree centrality can be to are differences across cities. research examine alternative measures of cities' roles in the world city innovation network data is a of on and not collaboration and knowledge are by and the network indicators will on knowledge we examined for a set of prominent world cities, which may the for opportunities for differences in trends between WCIN and WCSN focus on the and of the networks, the of in connectivity, or the with knowledge der 2020). The innovation network indicators can be to the growth and innovation performance of cities to for network characteristics are with and or with specialization or of cities. The potentially different roles of network linkages established through more of collaboration by firms, and also And finally, in of economic research can the between the of both networks across developed or across (e.g., We that research can on the in this paper to address these Belderbos and from number and number Derudder from