# Pilot (Lost)

"Pilot" is the two-part television pilot of the ABC television series Lost, with part 1 premiering on September 22, 2004, and part 2 one week later on September 29. Both parts were directed by J. J. Abrams, who co-wrote the script with series co-creator Damon Lindelof. Jeffrey Lieber, who had been commissioned by ABC to write the first version of the script, earned a story credit. Filmed in Oahu, Hawaii, it was the most expensive pilot episode up to that time, costing between $10 and $14 million, largely due to the expense of purchasing, shipping, and dressing a decommissioned Lockheed 1011 to represent Flight 815's wreckage. Many changes were made during the casting process, including the selected actors, the characters' behaviors and fates.

The pilot introduces the survivors of Oceanic Flight 815, who experience a plane crash and end up on a mysterious island. Three of the characters, Jack Shephard (Matthew Fox), Kate Austen (Evangeline Lilly) and Charlie Pace (Dominic Monaghan), are featured before the crash in flashbacks of their experiences on the plane as it breaks apart in mid-air; this narrative technique would be reused in almost every subsequent episode of the series. The Lost pilot is one of the most critically acclaimed television pilots of all time. Both parts earned high ratings, and the episode would later win many awards and accolades.

Plot

Part 1
Jack Shephard awakens disoriented in a jungle, and follows a yellow Labrador retriever through the bamboo. He emerges on a beach, confronted by the wreckage of Oceanic Flight 815, a plane he was on that was travelling from Sydney to Los Angeles. A surgeon, Jack administers medical aid to several survivors, assisting the pregnant Claire Littleton and giving CPR to an unconscious Rose Nadler. After the initial shock passes, Jack retreats to a quiet area to tend to his own injuries. He notices Kate Austen and asks her for assistance suturing a wound on his back.

Sayid Jarrah organizes a clean-up group, while Hurley salvages food from the plane's galley and distributes them to survivors. Shannon Rutherford refuses chocolate offered by her stepbrother Boone Carlyle, believing rescue is imminent. A Korean man, Jin-Soo Kwon,  tells his wife Sun that she should remain close to him at all times. After night falls, the survivors hear loud roaring noises and crashing trees in the jungle.

The following morning, Jack and Kate set out to retrieve the plane's transceiver from its front section, which landed in the jungle. They are accompanied by Charlie Pace. The trio find it leaning against a tree, forcing them to climb up to reach the cockpit. Charlie disappears into the bathroom while Jack and Kate awaken the concussed pilot. He tells that the plane lost radio contact six hours after takeoff, whereupon it turned back for Fiji and hit wake turbulence. He estimates that they were a thousand miles off course before the crash, meaning that any rescuers would be looking in the wrong place. He tries using the transceiver, but cannot get a signal.

Suddenly the strange roaring noise is heard again, and the pilot is seized by something outside the plane, prompting the trio to grab the transceiver and flee. During the escape, Charlie falls and Jack returns to help him while a terrified Kate runs on. After the unseen monster leaves, the three reunite and discover the pilot's mangled body suspended in a treetop.

Flashbacks
On the plane, Charlie runs by Jack while being called after by flight attendants. Turbulence shakes the plane, scaring Rose, who is sitting across from Jack. The two talk, and Rose mentions that her husband is in the bathroom. The turbulence gets worse until the plane starts to veer wildly, causing a man to hit the ceiling and oxygen masks to fall.

Part 2
Jack, Kate, and Charlie head back to the beach, where ten-year-old Walt discovers a pair of handcuffs, which he shows to his father, Michael. A man known only as "Sawyer" gets into a fistfight with Sayid, calling him a terrorist, but they're stopped by Jack and Michael. Jack determines that, with no prospects of immediate rescue, he has to try his best to treat the worst-injured survivor, an unconscious U.S. marshal with a piece of wreckage lodged in his side. He enlists Hurley's help.

Sayid repairs the transceiver, but it has little remaining battery life and no signal. He explains that getting to higher ground will make it more likely to get a signal. He and Kate decide to go inland, alongside Charlie, Shannon, Boone, and Sawyer. Along the way, a polar bear emerges and charges the group. Sawyer shoots and kills it with a gun he took off the marshal, and Sayid accuses him of being the marshal's prisoner. Kate seizes the gun before the situation can escalate. Back at the beach, the marshal awakens and asks Jack, "Where is she?"

As the inland team reaches higher ground, Sayid turns on the transceiver and gets a signal. However, it is being blocked by a looping transmission in French, which Shannon translates as "I'm alone now, on the island alone. Please someone come. The others... they're dead. It killed them. It killed them all." Since the transmission lasts 30 seconds and each iteration states the number of repeats thus far, Sayid calculates that it has been broadcasting for over 16 years.

Flashbacks
Anxious and under suspicion from the flight attendants, Charlie runs to the bathroom, where he locks himself in to snort heroin. As the turbulence hits, Charlie is slammed against the ceiling and he rushes out, strapping himself into a seat as the plane starts to go down.

Kate is revealed to be the marshal's prisoner, wearing the handcuffs Walt found in the jungle. As the turbulence hits, the luggage compartment is shaken open and the marshal is knocked unconscious by a falling suitcase. Kate struggles to put on her oxygen mask due to the handcuffs, so she frees herself using the marshal's keys and puts his oxygen mask on him before attaching her own. The tail section of the plane breaks off and falls away.

Production

Conception and writing

The series began development in the summer of 2003, when ABC senior vice president Thom Sherman decided to order from Spelling Television a script based on an idea of network president Lloyd Braun, who envisioned a series that was a cross between the novel Lord of the Flies, the movie Cast Away, the television series Gilligan's Island and the popular reality show Survivor. Braun had titled his concept Lost after a failed reality show that had broadcast in 2001. Writer Jeffrey Lieber was contacted by Spelling's vice president of series development Ted Gold, and in September 2003 pitched to ABC the concepts for what he called Nowhere. Sherman approved the idea and hired Lieber to write a script, but Braun wound up rejecting Lieber's draft and subsequent rewrites. In January 2004 Braun contacted J. J. Abrams, who developed the TV series Alias for ABC, to write a new pilot script, which would retain the title Lost. Although initially hesitant, Abrams warmed up to the idea on the condition that the series would have a supernatural angle to it and he was assigned a writing partner. ABC executive Heather Kadin sent him Damon Lindelof, who had long intended to meet Abrams as he wished to write for Alias. Together, Abrams and Lindelof developed the characters and plot of Lost, along with creating a series "bible" which would store the major mythological ideas and plot points for an ideal five to six season run for the show. Lindelof and Abrams worked between January 13 and 16, when Lindelof sent a 21–page outline to ABC's executives. A complete first draft of the pilot script was delivered on February 24, and the teleplay kept on being revised, with the final script arriving on April 19. The development of the show was constrained by tight deadlines, as it had been commissioned late in the 2004 season's development cycle and Braun estimated that the whole process from writing to post-production took 6 to 8 weeks. Despite the short schedule, the creative team remained flexible enough to modify or create characters to fit actors they wished to cast.

Though Abrams and Lindelof did not use Lieber's work as inspiration for their own, Lieber's request for arbitration at the Writers Guild of America pointing out the similarities in both scripts earned him a story credit. Lieber would later say the series would drift much from his concepts in Nowhere, declaring Lost was "more like Lord of the Rings than Lord of the Flies". Writer-producer Anthony Spinner later sued ABC on the accounts that he submitted a script titled "L.O.S.T." to the network in 1977, but the case was dismissed on the accounts that none of the people involved with Lost had read Spinner's work.

Casting
 
In the initial plans for the series, Jack was going to die midway through the first episode. The role of Jack was originally offered to Michael Keaton, but when the producers quickly changed their minds about Jack's death,