# Another Time, Another Place (Space: 1999)

"Another Time, Another Place" is the sixteenth episode of the first series of Space: 1999.  The screenplay was written by Johnny Byrne; the director was David Tomblin.  The final shooting script is dated 20 January 1974, with blue-page amendments dated 25 January and 1 April 1974.  Live-action filming took place Tuesday 2 April 1974 through Friday 19 April 1974.  Two days of second-unit filming took place Tuesday 23 April 1974 and Thursday 25 April 1974 during the production of "Missing Link".

Story 
It is a routine 'morning' on Moonbase Alpha.  As Regina Kesslann passes through Main Mission on an errand, she pauses in mid-step, sensing something amiss.  Soon after, the entire community experiences the same nameless apprehension.  The cause is as yet undetected by the instruments:  a tremendous, swirling mass of energy looming in the path of the speeding Moon.  Once in range, the Moon is jerked forward by the anomaly's intense gravitational force.  Everyone is sent reeling as the Moon plunges into the spiralling centre.  Velocity readings go off the dial and the overwhelmed sensors short-circuit.

Falling through a vortex of multi-coloured energy, the Moon is buffeted by violent turbulence.  Regina tries to run from the room, but all motion ceases as the Moon arrives in the still, timeless centre of the anomaly—and everyone acquires a ghostly facsimile.  As a duplicate Moon separates from the original, the doppelgängers peel away one by one, each leaving its original with a twinge of angst.  At a window, Helena Russell watches the other Moon speed off into the distance.  Finally, everything vanishes in a blaze of white light—

—which fades to find the Moon in normal space and the population of Alpha regaining consciousness.  John Koenig organises repair operations and calls a medical team for the still-unconscious Regina.  He approaches Victor Bergman for an explanation.  The professor is baffled, as they are now in a completely different region of space.  The anomaly must have propelled them uncountable billions of miles in a matter of seconds.  Koenig joins Helena in the diagnostic unit, where a comatose Regina is not responding to treatment.  While everyone else experienced similar symptoms—shock, headaches, double-vision—and recovered, Regina's condition is deteriorating.

As the repairs progress, they discover the Moon is approaching a new solar system.   Suddenly, Regina awakens, disoriented and talking nonsense:  she was up 'there' again...she saw two Moons...how everyone was 'there', including Alan and the Commander...but it must have been a dream, because Alan and the Commander are dead...no, they're not dead.  Helena ends this schizophrenic exchange by assuring her the two men are not dead.  Relieved, Regina gazes up at the ceiling, commenting on how hot the sun is today.  The doctor examines the girl's hand and finds it sunburned.

Koenig meets with Helena for an update on Regina's condition.  Aside from the inexplicable sunburn, the girl believes she is living on a planet; from her perspective, her present life on Alpha no longer exists.  Helena rejects suggestions that this is déjà vu or a classic case of psychological regression.  The world of Regina's delusion is hardly ideal—especially as she is mourning the deaths of Koenig and Alan Carter.  Since the Moon seems to have travelled faster than the speed of light, Bergman speculates time could be a factor.  Regina could be living a past or future life, but feeling it in the present.

With the repairs completed, scans of the solar system reveal nine planets orbiting a yellow star. When long-range scanners are focused on the familiar-appearing third planet, Computer confirms it to be Earth.  Furthermore, the Moon is slowing down and on a course to re-enter orbit.  In private, a skeptical Koenig says that while he can accept that a chance encounter with a spatial anomaly could have shifted them across space, he cannot conceive it placing the Moon on a trajectory to re-establish its former orbit around Earth.  Bergman is philosophic; there must be a fundamental sense of order to the universe that even Man's worst blunders (such as blasting the Moon out of orbit) cannot alter.

Though still living in her fantasy world, Regina is on the mend.  Happily painting a picture, she attributes her recovery to the return of her husband, Alan.  The sudden realisation that he has not yet come to visit upsets her.  Helena's excuses only make matters worse.  After a moment's thought, the doctor promises he will come.  She summons Carter to the Medical Section, interrupting his meeting with the Commander.  The astronaut insists on sending a reconnaissance flight to Earth, but Koenig's decision is final:  no one will be allowed down to the surface until the Moon is safely in orbit.

Reporting to Medical, Carter is stunned when Regina hurls herself into his arms.  One minute she is weeping with pleasure at the sight of him, the next she is hysterically screaming he is dead.  Helena is forced to sedate her.  The doctor informs a bewildered Carter of her intention:  to jolt Regina out of her delusion with the shock of seeing him—her dead husband back from the grave.  She shows him the picture Regina has painted of her world: a geodesic house sitting in a field of flowers with a cheerful sun in the sky.

Continuous hails to the World Space Commission—or any Earth station—go unanswered.  Koenig makes a base-wide announcement, reporting that Phase One of Operation Exodus (a reconnaissance probe of the surface) will be launched as soon as the Moon has safely settled into Earth orbit.  Hearing his words, Regina awakens to a nightmare vision of a black-cloaked figure beckoning to her.  She approaches and realises its face to be her own, older and saddened.  After experiencing a sharp spasm of pain, she looks again:  the face is now a skull.  Terrified, she runs away—to be brought up short by her own reflection in an endless mirror.

Screaming, Regina lashes out and smashes the mirror.  Escaping from the care unit using Dr Mathias's comlock, she encounters a patrolling Security guard.  In her madness, she clobbers him and takes his weapon.  In Main Mission, the joyous announcement of the Moon's re-entry into Earth orbit is interrupted by Regina, wielding a stun-gun in one hand and holding her pain-wracked head with the other.  Hysterical, she rejects all attempts to calm her, having eyes only for Carter.  The girl flings herself into his arms, whispering, 'I knew you didn't die, I knew.'  She convulses in agony, then goes limp.  She is dead.

Later, Bergman privately briefs Koenig on a startling revelation:  the world, as they knew it, has been destroyed.  A five-degree deviation in the tilt of Earth's axis has resulted in devastating geological and climatic changes.  The only remotely habitable area is a site in southern California known as Santa Maria.  Helena joins them with the results of Regina's autopsy.  What she thought was a mental condition had an underlying physical cause—the girl's skull contained two separate brains, and the resulting pressure killed her.  Further discussion is interrupted by an urgent summons.  A celestial object is moving out from behind Earth.

It is the duplicate Moon...from which they receive what sounds like their own Moonbase navigation signal.  Bergman muses they have somehow caught up with themselves.  Koenig and Carter fly to this other Moon.  They find another Moonbase, deserted and stripped of all equipment—the result of Operation Exodus.  Further investigation reveals a crashed Eagle straddling the rim of the crater.  Boarding the wreck, they find two dead astronauts still strapped in their seats.  Wiping the dust from their helmet visors, they find themselves face to face with their dead selves.

Helena's post mortem reveals the duplicate Koenig and Carter died five years earlier, killed on impact when their Eagle crashed.  Koenig reckons the rest of the duplicate Alphans settled at Santa Maria.  Helena agrees, feeling Regina's 'delusions' were telling them that all along.  If they encounter their 'other selves', she fears what happened to Regina could happen to them all.  However, unexpected events force Koenig to initiate Operation Exodus.  The duplicate Moon has increased velocity—moving in the same orbit as theirs, it will collide with them in less than two days.

With evacuation to Earth now a necessity, they must quickly assess the situation.  Helena insists that only Koenig and Carter should go, as their other selves are dead—though she, too, must go to study the medical implications.  They arrive at Santa Maria in the middle of the night, finding a settlement in a desolate valley.  They land at a distance and continue on foot, Helena plagued by a nameless anxiety.  On arrival, they see dwellings identical to those in Regina's painting.  Sending the others out to reconnoitre, Koenig approaches the nearest geodesic house.  He watches a figure ma