# Control character

In computing and telecommunication, a control character or non-printing character (NPC) is a code point in a character set that does not represent a written character or symbol. They are used as in-band signaling to cause effects other than the addition of a symbol to the text. All other characters are mainly graphic characters, also known as printing characters (or printable characters), except perhaps for "space" characters. In the ASCII standard there are 33 control characters, such as code 7, , which rings a terminal bell.

History

Procedural signs in Morse code are a form of control character.

A form of control characters were introduced in the 1870 Baudot code: NUL and DEL.
The 1901 Murray code added the carriage return (CR) and line feed (LF), and other versions of the Baudot code included other control characters.

The bell character (BEL), which rang a bell to alert operators, was also an early teletype control character.

Some control characters have also been called "format effectors".

In ASCII

There were quite a few control characters defined (33 in ASCII, and the ECMA-48 standard adds 32 more). This was because early terminals had very primitive mechanical or electrical controls that made any kind of state-remembering API quite expensive to implement, thus a different code for each and every function looked like a requirement. It quickly became possible and inexpensive to interpret sequences of codes to perform a function, and device makers found a way to send hundreds of device instructions. Specifically, they used ASCII code 2710 (escape), followed by a series of characters called a "control sequence" or "escape sequence". The mechanism was invented by Bob Bemer, the father of ASCII. For example, the sequence of code 2710, followed by the printable characters "[2;10H", would cause a Digital Equipment Corporation VT100 terminal to move its cursor to the 10th cell of the 2nd line of the screen. Several standards exist for these sequences, notably ANSI X3.64. But the number of non-standard variations in use is large, especially among printers, where technology has advanced far faster than any standards body can possibly keep up with.

All entries in the ASCII table below code 3210 (technically the C0 control code set) are of this kind, including CR and LF used to separate lines of text. The code 12710 (DEL) is also a control character. Extended ASCII sets defined by ISO 8859 added the codes 12810 through 15910 as control characters. This was primarily done so that if the high bit was stripped, it would not change a printing character to a C0 control code. This second set is called the C1 set.

These 65 control codes were carried over to Unicode. Unicode added more characters that could be considered controls, but it makes a distinction between these "Formatting characters" (such as the zero-width non-joiner) and the 65 control characters.

The Extended Binary Coded Decimal Interchange Code (EBCDIC) character set contains 65 control codes, including all of the ASCII control codes plus additional codes which are mostly used to control IBM peripherals.

The control characters in ASCII still in common use include:
 0x00 (null, , , ), originally intended to be an ignored character, but now used by many programming languages including C to mark the end of a string.
 0x07 (bell, , , ), which may cause the device to emit a warning such as a bell or beep sound or the screen flashing.
 0x08 (backspace, , , ), may overprint the previous character.
 0x09 (horizontal tab, , , ), moves the printing position right to the next tab stop.
 0x0A (line feed, , , ), moves the print head down one line, or to the left edge and down. Used as the end of line marker in most UNIX systems and variants.
 0x0B (vertical tab, , , ), vertical tabulation.
 0x0C (form feed, , , ), to cause a printer to eject paper to the top of the next page, or a video terminal to clear the screen.
 0x0D (carriage return, , , ), moves the printing position to the start of the line, allowing overprinting. Used as the end of line marker in Classic Mac OS, OS-9, FLEX (and variants). A  pair is used by CP/M-80 and its derivatives including DOS and Windows, and by Application Layer protocols such as FTP, SMTP, and HTTP.
 0x1A (Control-Z, , ). Acts as an end-of-file for the Windows text-mode file i/o.
 0x1B (escape, ,  (GCC only), ). Introduces an escape sequence.

Control characters may be described as doing something when the user inputs them, such as code 3 (End-of-Text character, ETX, ) to interrupt the running process, or code 4 (End-of-Transmission character, EOT, ), used to end text input on Unix or to exit a Unix shell. These uses usually have little to do with their use when they are in text being output.

In Unicode

In Unicode, "Control-characters" are U+0000—U+001F (C0 controls), U+007F (delete), and U+0080—U+009F (C1 controls). Their General Category is "Cc". Formatting codes are distinct, in General Category "Cf". The Cc control characters have no Name in Unicode, but are given labels such as "<control-001A>" instead.

Display
There are a number of techniques to display non-printing characters, which may be illustrated with the bell character in ASCII encoding:
 Code point: decimal 7, hexadecimal 0x07
 An abbreviation, often three capital letters: BEL
 A special character condensing the abbreviation: Unicode U+2407 (␇), "symbol for bell"
 An ISO 2047 graphical representation: Unicode U+237E (⍾), "graphic for bell"
 Caret notation in ASCII, where code point 00xxxxx is represented as a caret followed by the capital letter at code point 10xxxxx: ^G
 An escape sequence, as in C/C++ character string codes: , , , etc.

How control characters map to keyboards
ASCII-based keyboards have a key labelled "Control", "Ctrl", or (rarely) "Cntl" which is used much like a shift key, being pressed in combination with another letter or symbol key. In one implementation, the control key generates the code 64 places below the code for the (generally) uppercase letter it is pressed in combination with (i.e., subtract 0x40 from ASCII code value of the (generally) uppercase letter). The other implementation is to take the ASCII code produced by the key and bitwise AND it with 0x1F, forcing bits 5 to 7 to zero. For example, pressing "control" and the letter "g" (which is 0110 0111 in binary), produces the code 7 (BELL, 7 in base ten, or 0000 0111 in binary). The NULL character (code 0) is represented by Ctrl-@, "@" being the code immediately before "A" in the ASCII character set. For convenience, some terminals accept Ctrl-Space as an alias for Ctrl-@. In either case, this produces one of the 32 ASCII control codes between 0 and 31. Neither approach works to produce  the DEL character because of its special location in the table and its value (code 12710), Ctrl-? is sometimes used for this character.

When the control key is held down, letter keys produce the same control characters regardless of the state of the shift or caps lock keys.  In other words, it does not matter whether the key would have produced an upper-case or a lower-case letter.  The interpretation of the control key with the space, graphics character, and digit keys (ASCII codes 32 to 63) vary between systems.  Some will produce the same character code as if the control key were not held down.  Other systems translate these keys into control characters when the control key is held down.  The interpretation of the control key with non-ASCII ("foreign") keys also varies between systems.

Control characters are often rendered into a printable form known as caret notation by printing a caret (^) and then the ASCII character that has a value of the control character plus 64.  Control characters generated using letter keys are thus displayed with the upper-case form of the letter.  For example, ^G represents code 7, which is generated by pressing the G key when the control key is held down.

Keyboards also typically have a few single keys which produce control character codes. For example, the key labelled "Backspace" typically produces code 8, "Tab" code 9, "Enter" or "Return" code 13 (though some keyboards might produce code 10 for "Enter").

Many keyboards include keys that do not correspond to any ASCII printable or control character, for example cursor control arrows and word processing functions.  The associated keypresses are communicated to computer programs by one of four methods: appropriating otherwise unused control characters; using some encoding other than ASCII; using multi-character control sequences; or using an additional mechanism outside of generating characters. "Dumb" computer terminals typically use control sequences.  Keyboards attached to stand-alone personal computers made in the 1980s typically use one (or both) of the first two methods.  Modern computer keyboards generate scancodes that identify the specific physical keys that are pressed; computer software then determines how to handle t