# Gilbert E. Patterson

Gilbert Earl Patterson (September 22, 1939 – March 20, 2007) was an American Holiness Pentecostal leader and minister who served as the National Presiding Bishop and Founder of the Bountiful Blessings Ministries and Chief Apostle of the Church of God in Christ (COGIC), Incorporated. Bishop Patterson was the second youngest person to ever be elected Presiding Bishop of COGIC at the age 60 in 2000, second to his predeceased uncle Bishop J. O. Patterson, Sr who was 56 when he was elected Presiding Bishop in 1968.

On March 28, 2007, the United States Senate passed a resolution celebrating the life of Patterson. The sponsors were Senators Barack Obama, Carl Levin, John Kerry, Lamar Alexander and Bob Corker.

Early Years and Education 
Patterson was born in Humboldt, Tennessee on September 22, 1939, to William Archie and Mary Louise Williams Patterson. His family was living in Mississippi at the time, but shortly after in 1941, they moved to Memphis so his father could serve at the Holy Temple, a COGIC church. His father was a COGIC minister, which later led to his own involvement in the church. G.E. Patterson regularly attended church. He accepted and affirmed COGIC traditions and teachings. In 1952, his family moved to Detroit, Michigan so his father could serve at the New Jerusalem COGIC. A few years later in 1958, Patterson decided to attend Detroit Bible College. He also attended LeMoyne-Owen College in Memphis and held an honorary doctorate from Oral Roberts University. After completing his education he returned to Memphis to co-pastor with his father in 1961.

Career 
Patterson served in ministry for 50 years before dying of heart failure in 2007 at the age of 67. During his time as a minister, he led the largest Pentecostal religious group in the nation consisting of 5.5 million members. In 1975, he resigned as a pastor in the COGIC after a dispute between his father and J.O. Patterson, his uncle. This caused him to part ways with the denomination. G.E. Patterson wanted to continue ministry outside of the COGIC, which led him to renovating a church in Mississippi that he named the Temple of Divergence. His funeral was later held here. This church grew rapidly and had numerous members. The Temple of Deliverance allowed Patterson to hold close to his Pentecostal roots and black holiness. In 1986, he rejoined the COGIC and reconnected with the denomination after his uncle reached out to settle the feud. This same year, Patterson ordained as a bishop. His ability to preach simple and understandable messages made him appealing to all age groups. At one point, he was the only COGIC minister with an international audience. He reached an extensive audience through radio ministry and had 15-20 million people watch his Sunday television broadcasts.

In 1992, Patterson was a general board member of COGIC. In the last seven years of his life, from 2000-2007, he served as the presiding bishop. Elections for this role occurred every four years. He was named Power 150 Religious Leaders by EBONY Magazine. Patterson was also the editor and publisher of the Bountiful Blessings Magazine, which had a distribution list of over 100,000. His book 'Here Comes the Judge" received high praise and sold thousands of copies.

Civil Rights involvement 
Patterson was deeply involved in the Memphis Sanitation Workers Strike in 1968. This is notable due to COGIC members tending to be disconnected from Civil Rights movements. He was a founder of COME, Memphis Community on the Move for Equality, which played a powerful role in the strike. Patterson encouraged Memphis to support the strike through his radio broadcasts. His involvement in the strike demonstrates the amplitude of diverse grassroots black activists to exercise collective agency in order to pursue freedom as well as justice for oppressed and marginalized communities.

References

1939 births
2007 deaths
20th-century American bishops
21st-century American bishops
African-American Christians
American Pentecostals
William Tyndale College alumni
LeMoyne–Owen College alumni
Members of the Church of God in Christ
Presiding Bishops of the Church of God in Christ
Church of God in Christ pastors
American television evangelists
African-American television personalities
People from Humboldt, Tennessee
Religious leaders from Memphis, Tennessee