[The Art of War — Sun Tzu (strategy) — Gutenberg #1541]

Most honoured madam, My Lord of York, out of his noble nature, Zeal, and obedience he still bore your Grace, Forgetting, like a good man, your late censure Both of his truth and him—which was too far— Offers, as I do, in a sign of peace, His service and his counsel. QUEEN KATHERINE. [_Aside_.] To betray me. My lords, I thank you both for your good wills. Ye speak like honest men; pray God ye prove so. But how to make ye suddenly an answer In such a point of weight, so near mine honour— More near my life, I fear—with my weak wit, And to such men of gravity and learning, In truth I know not. I was set at work Among my maids, full little, God knows, looking Either for such men or such business. For her sake that I have been—for I feel The last fit of my greatness—good your Graces, Let me have time and counsel for my cause. Alas, I am a woman friendless, hopeless. WOLSEY. Madam, you wrong the King’s love with these fears; Your hopes and friends are infinite. QUEEN KATHERINE. In England But little for my profit. Can you think, lords, That any Englishman dare give me counsel? Or be a known friend, ’gainst his Highness’ pleasure, Though he be grown so desperate to be honest, And live a subject? Nay, forsooth, my friends, They that much weigh out my afflictions, They that my trust must grow to, live not here. They are, as all my other comforts, far hence In mine own country, lords. CAMPEIUS. I would your Grace Would leave your griefs and take my counsel. QUEEN KATHERINE. How, sir? CAMPEIUS. Put your main cause into the King’s protection. He’s loving and most gracious. ’Twill be much Both for your honour better and your cause, For if the trial of the law o’ertake ye, You’ll part away disgraced. WOLSEY. He tells you rightly. QUEEN KATHERINE. Ye tell me what ye wish for both: my ruin. Is this your Christian counsel? Out upon ye! Heaven is above all yet; there sits a judge That no king can corrupt. CAMPEIUS. Your rage mistakes us. QUEEN KATHERINE. The more shame for ye! Holy men I thought ye, Upon my soul, two reverend cardinal virtues; But cardinal sins and hollow hearts I fear ye. Mend ’em, for shame, my lords. Is this your comfort, The cordial that ye bring a wretched lady, A woman lost among ye, laughed at, scorned? I will not wish ye half my miseries; I have more charity. But say I warned ye. Take heed, for heaven’s sake, take heed, lest at once The burden of my sorrows fall upon ye. WOLSEY. Madam, this is a mere distraction. You turn the good we offer into envy. QUEEN KATHERINE. Ye turn me into nothing. Woe upon ye And all such false professors! Would you have me— If you have any justice, any pity, If ye be anything but churchmen’s habits— Put my sick cause into his hands that hates me? Alas, ’has banished me his bed already, His love, too, long ago. I am old, my lords, And all the fellowship I hold now with him Is only my obedience. What can happen To me above this wretchedness? All your studies Make me a curse like this. CAMPEIUS. Your fears are worse. QUEEN KATHERINE. Have I lived thus long—let me speak myself, Since virtue finds no friends—a wife, a true one— A woman, I dare say without vainglory, Never yet branded with suspicion— Have I with all my full affections Still met the King, loved him next heav’n, obeyed him, Been, out of fondness, superstitious to him, Almost forgot my prayers to content him, And am I thus rewarded? ’Tis not well, lords. Bring me a constant woman to her husband, One that ne’er dreamed a joy beyond his pleasure, And to that woman, when she has done most, Yet will I add an honour: a great patience. WOLSEY. Madam, you wander from the good we aim at. QUEEN KATHERINE. My lord, I dare not make myself so guilty To give up willingly that noble title Your master wed me to. Nothing but death Shall e’er divorce my dignities. WOLSEY. Pray hear me. QUEEN KATHERINE. Would I had never trod this English earth Or felt the flatteries that grow upon it! Ye have angels’ faces, but heaven knows your hearts. What will become of me now, wretched lady? I am the most unhappy woman living. [_To her Women_.] Alas, poor wenches, where are now your fortunes? Shipwrecked upon a kingdom where no pity, No friends, no hope, no kindred weep for me, Almost no grave allowed me, like the lily That once was mistress of the field and flourished, I’ll hang my head and perish. WOLSEY. If your Grace Could but be brought to know our ends are honest, You’d feel more comfort. Why should we, good lady, Upon what cause, wrong you? Alas, our places, The way of our profession, is against it. We are to cure such sorrows, not to sow ’em. For goodness’ sake, consider what you do, How you may hurt yourself, ay, utterly Grow from the King’s acquaintance, by this carriage. The hearts of princes kiss obedience, So much they love it, but to stubborn spirits They swell and grow as terrible as storms. I know you have a gentle, noble temper, A soul as even as a calm. Pray think us Those we profess: peacemakers, friends, and servants. CAMPEIUS. Madam, you’ll find it so. You wrong your virtues With these weak women’s fears. A noble spirit, As yours was put into you, ever casts Such doubts, as false coin, from it. The King loves you; Beware you lose it not. For us, if you please To trust us in your business, we are ready To use our utmost studies in your service. QUEEN KATHERINE. Do what ye will, my lords, and pray forgive me If I have used myself unmannerly. You know I am a woman, lacking wit To make a seemly answer to such persons. Pray do my service to his Majesty. He has my heart yet, and shall have my prayers While I shall have my life. Come, reverend fathers, Bestow your counsels on me. She now begs That little thought, when she set footing here, She should have bought her dignities so dear. [_Exeunt._] SCENE II. Ante-chamber to the King’s apartment. Enter the Duke of Norfolk, Duke of Suffolk, Lord Surrey and Lord Chamberlain. NORFOLK. If you will now unite in your complaints And force them with a constancy, the Cardinal Cannot stand under them. If you omit The offer of this time, I cannot promise But that you shall sustain more new disgraces With these you bear already. SURREY. I am joyful To meet the least occasion that may give me Remembrance of my father-in-law the Duke, To be revenged on him. SUFFOLK. Which of the peers Have uncontemned gone by him, or at least Strangely neglected? When did he regard The stamp of nobleness in any person Out of himself? CHAMBERLAIN. My lords, you speak your pleasures. What he deserves of you and me I know; What we can do to him—though now the time Gives way to us—I much fear. If you cannot Bar his access to th’ King, never attempt Anything on him, for he hath a witchcraft Over the King in ’s tongue. NORFOLK. O, fear him not. His spell in that is out. The King hath found Matter against him that for ever mars The honey of his language. No, he’s settled, Not to come off, in his displeasure. SURREY. Sir, I should be glad to hear such news as this Once every hour. NORFOLK. Believe it, this is true. In the divorce his contrary proceedings Are all unfolded, wherein he appears As I would wish mine enemy. SURREY. How came His practices to light? SUFFOLK. Most strangely. SURREY. O, how, how? SUFFOLK. The Cardinal’s letters to the Pope miscarried, And came to th’ eye o’ the King, wherein was read How that the Cardinal did entreat his Holiness To stay the judgement o’ th’ divorce; for if It did take place, “I do” quoth he “perceive My king is tangled in affection to A creature of the Queen’s, Lady Anne Bullen.” SURREY. Has the King this? SUFFOLK. Believe it. SURREY. Will this work? CHAMBERLAIN. The King in this perceives him how he coasts And hedges his own way. But in this point All his tricks founder, and he brings his physic After his patient’s death. The King already Hath married the fair lady. SURREY. Would he had! SUFFOLK. May you be happy in your wish, my lord, For I profess you have it. SURREY. Now, all my joy Trace the conjunction! SUFFOLK. My amen to’t! NORFOLK. All men’s. SUFFOLK. There’s order given for her coronation. Marry, this is yet but young, and may be left To some ears unrecounted. But, my lords, She is a gallant creature, and complete In mind and feature. I persuade me, from her Will fall some blessing to this land which shall In it be memorized. SURREY. But will the King Digest this letter of the Cardinal’s? The Lord forbid! NORFOLK. Marry, amen! SUFFOLK. No, no. There be more wasps that buzz about his nose Will make this sting the sooner. Cardinal Campeius Is stolen away to Rome; hath ta’en no leave; Has left the cause o’ th’ King unhandled, and Is posted, as the agent of our Cardinal, To second all his plot. I do assure you The King cried “Ha!” at this. CHAMBERLAIN. Now, God incense him, And let him cry “Ha!” louder. NORFOLK. But, my lord, When returns Cranmer? SUFFOLK. He is returned in his opinions, which Have satisfied the King for his divorce, Together with all famous colleges Almost in Christendom. Shortly, I believe, His second marriage shall be published, and Her coronation. Katherine no more Shall be called Queen, but Princess Dowager And widow to Prince Arthur. NORFOLK. This same Cranmer’s A worthy fellow, and hath ta’en much pain In the King’s business. SUFFOLK. He has, and we shall see him For it an archbishop. NORFOLK. So I hear. SUFFOLK. ’Tis so. Enter Wolsey and Cromwell. The Cardinal! NORFOLK. Observe, observe; he’s moody. WOLSEY. The packet, Cromwell, Gave’t you the King? CROMWELL. To his own hand, in ’s bedchamber. WOLSEY. Looked he o’ th’ inside of the paper? CROMWELL. Presently He did unseal them, and the first he viewed, He did it with a serious mind; a heed Was in his countenance. You he bade Attend him here this morning. WOLSEY. Is he ready To come abroad? CROMWELL. I think by this he is. WOLSEY.