Entrepreneurship/VC Research

Title: Thematic evolution, emerging trends for sharing economy business model research, and future research directions in the post‐COVID‐19 era

Abstract:
This study explored the scientometrics and current dynamics of the area of sharing economy business models (SEBMs). Using bibliometric analysis, it examined a collection of 561 studies from the Web of Science and Scopus databases to detect the thematic evolution, strategy map, and emerging trends in SEBM literature as well as to forecast research directions. The results showed that SEBMs is a relatively new multidisciplinary research area that grew rapidly between 2014 and 2019; since then, the publication growth has flattened. Research on SEBMs currently focuses on sustainability, sustainable development, tourism, new technology application, and business management, with less attention given to social effects and public acceptance, determinants of success, and regional entrepreneurial ecosystem. The thematic analysis revealed that sustainability‐oriented themes are at the center. Six emerging trends were detected: (1) industry‐oriented research such as transportation, tourism, accommodation, energy, and others, (2) sustainability‐oriented studies, including social, environmental, and economic perspectives, (3) sustainable organizational development concerning social acceptance, trust, legitimacy, and satisfaction, (4) new technology‐oriented and innovation‐focused studies such as blockchain, big data, social media, and e‐platforms, (5) country‐ and region‐oriented studies, particularly for emerging countries, (6) effects of entrepreneurial ecosystem factors on SEBM development. Based on the current thematic map and evolution, this paper suggests several critical research directions. The paper provides (1) providing a one‐stop literature overview on SEBM area for two time slices: fast‐growing‐initiation phase (before COVID‐19) and transitional phase (during COVID‐19), (2) identifying research focuses, emerging trends, and gaps, (3) developing novel research avenues for investigation, and (4) aligning expected contributions to the area. By providing new knowledge, the research theoretically contributes to many disciplines given that SEBM studies were found to be multidisciplinary. It also has numerous implications for policymakers and practitioners.