# 2006 World Baseball Classic championship

The 2006 World Baseball Classic championship was the inaugural final of the World Baseball Classic played on March 20, 2006 at Petco Park in San Diego, United States. The best-of-one final was the match to determine the first world champion in baseball. Although this was the first iteration of the World Baseball Classic, both Cuba and Japan were favorites to win the championship, as they were the only countries to have appeared in the top four at every iteration in the Summer Olympics up to this final. Japan won by 4 runs to claim the first championship of the World Baseball Classic.

Both countries had to go through two rounds of group stages and the semi-finals in knockout format to reach the final. Cuba lost only two games, once to Puerto Rico in the first round and once to the Dominican Republic in the second round. However, Japan lost three times, twice to South Korea in each round and the United States in the second round. This sparked a format controversy since South Korea would have a better overall and head-to-head record than Japan by the end of the tournament. As such, Cuba was the favorite to win the final as the team with the higher winning percentage of games in the tournament were to be the home team.

The match began progressing when Japan's starting pitcher–Daisuke Matsuzaka–gave up four hits, five strikeouts and one run by the end of the 4th inning through a gyroball pitching style. Offensively, Japan was able to record 6 runs with the help of Ichiro Suzuki's batting style of contact hitting. Once the Japanese bullpen took the mound in the 6th inning, Cuba aggressively responded for the rest of the baseball game through power hitting. By the end of the eighth, the disparity would come down to one run in favor of Japan from Frederich Cepeda's home run, who would record three runs batted in by the end of the game. In the ninth, Japan would counter by pushing their offensive limit over Cuba's, which would result in a final score of ten to six. The aftermath of the final most notably included notice from Major League Baseball, from Cuba's increase in defection to Matsuzaka's impact for the World Series champion Boston Red Sox in the next year.

Background

Format

The 2006 World Baseball Classic was the first World Baseball Classic, organized jointly by the International Baseball Federation and Major League Baseball. The competition took place from March 3, 2006 to March 20, 2006, which marks a duration of 18 days. A unique approach to hosting in comparison to global governing bodies of sports such as FIFA, FIBA, and ICC, is that multiple countries can host at each stage in the competition. For this year, Japan, Puerto Rico, and the United States were granted hosting rights, although at different levels. There was no qualification required, and all teams were invited based on merit.

The structure of the tournament required two rounds of round-robin groups and a knockout stage beginning in the semi-finals. The round-robin groups would have the top two teams from each pool to advance to the next round. Outside of determining the home and away team, the next round would not be dependent of the previous one. A total of 39 matches were played in front of over 737,000 people combined. No adjustments were made from the original baseball rules, although teams have to face each other less in comparison to regional competitions like the World Series in North America.

Rosters

Japan would announce their roster, consisting of twenty-eight competitors from the Nippon Professional Baseball in Japan and two competitors from Major League Baseball in North America. The two representatives from MLB would consist of pitcher Akinori Otsuka from the Texas Rangers and outfielder Ichiro Suzuki from the Seattle Mariners. As for Cuba, all thirty Cubans in their roster came from the Cuban National Series, the professional league only played in Cuba. This is primarily due to the Cuban government having restricted rules for outside work not related to Cuba. If violated, the Cuban government would ban the individuals who broke the rules of working outside the country. Due to these reasons, only 2 MLB representatives were competing in the final, even though tens of MLB players were in different rosters.

Road to the championship

Round one

Japan was drawn into Group A of the first round, and was granted the right to host for this stage. The group featured the strongest teams in East Asia: China, Chinese Taipei, and South Korea. Japan was able to defeat China and Chinese Taipei with ease, outscoring 32 to 5 runs combined. However, Japan would suffer their first loss of the tournament to South Korea, with a slow slump from a 2–0 lead to lose the match 3 runs to 2. As a result, South Korea and Japan advanced to the second round as first and second place finishers in Group A respectively.

Cuba was drawn into Group C of the first round, with fellow Caribbean rival Puerto Rico as host. The group consisted of Panama from Central America along with the Netherlands from Europe–both widely regarded as the best in their respective regions–and the aforementioned Caribbean nations. Cuba had a slightly tougher time in their group, with a 2 run win against Panama and a 9 run rout in favor of Puerto Rico. However, the group did no resort to tiebreakers. As such, Puerto Rico and Cuba advanced to the second round as first and second place finishers in Group C respectively. 

Other countries who advanced from the first round were the Dominican Republic, Mexico, the United States, and Venezuela.

Round two

Japan and South Korea met with the top two finishers of Group B: Mexico and the United States (the host of this pool). Although Japan comfortably defeated Mexico by five runs, the Japanese would struggle against the United States and South Korea at this stage. The match against the United States sparked a controversy regarding a sacrifice fly appeal. The game was highly competitive with consistent back-and-forth leads up to the eighth where the controversy occurred. When Tsuyoshi Nishioka was on third base, he ran to the home plate once the sacrifice fly was hit from Akinori Iwamura. Initially, Japan scored another run to make the score four to three. However, the call was overturned because Nishioka ran earlier than allowed. This led to the United States defeating Japan from Alex Rodriguez's run batted in at the bottom of the ninth. In addition, Japan would lose to South Korea–who would sweep the group–by one run again. Japan, Mexico, and the United States would finish at 1–2 in Pool 1. However, Japan would be declared as the second place finishers due to their amount of runs scored by their opponents and innings pitched.

Group 2 was much less complex, although a tiebreaker was still used. Cuba and Puerto Rico met with the first and second place finishers of Group D: the Dominican Republic and Venezuela. The Cubans would edge host Puerto Rico by 1 run and comfortably defeat Venezuela by 5 runs. However, Cuba would lose to the Dominican Republic by four runs, which would cost them in the tiebreaker. Due to the Dominican Republic losing to Puerto Rico, who would lose to Venezuela, these results would lead to a head-to-head tiebreaker. Since the Dominican Republic and Cuba both finished with two wins and one loss while the other countries did not, they would both advance to the semi-finals. However, since Cuba lost to the Dominican Republic, the Cubans would finish in second place as well in Pool 2.

Semifinals

The United States was granted the right to host the 2006 World Baseball Classic semifinals and finals, although the Americans did not advance to this level. The stadium that would hold the semifinals and finals is Petco Park in San Diego, home to the San Diego Padres. As a rule in the World Baseball Classic, the team with the higher winning percentage of games in the tournament were to be the home team. If both teams hold a similar winning percentage, a coin flip would occur to determine the home and away team. By this rule, this favored South Korea the most as they had an undefeated record up to this point.

The first semifinal was played on March 18, 2006 at 12:00 p.m. PT that featured the 2nd-seed Dominican Republic and 3rd-seed Cuba. The match was met with frequent hitting from both teams that relied on a power hitting playstyle. Both countries scored a combined total of 20 hits. However, in terms of runs the match was scored in specific innings from both sides, due to the pitching battle and clutch defenses. The Dominican Republic would score one run in the sixth inning, and Cuba would respond with three runs in the seventh inning immediately. This would become the final score, and Cuba would advance to the championship.

The second semifinal was played on March 18, 2006 at 7:00 p.m. PT that consisted of undefeated 1st-seed South Korea and 4th-seed Japan. The match would be instrumental in their sports rivalry, as the winner of this match would