# List of Scrapped Princess characters

The following is a list of characters from the light novel series and anime Scrapped Princess, written by Ichiro Sakaki with illustrations by Yukinobu Azumi.

Humans

Pacifica Casull

, also referred to as the Scrapped Princess. According to a prophecy from the Church of Mauser, she is cursed to destroy the world of Providence on her sixteenth birthday. Her parents worried about her power, so she was abandoned by them when she was an infant. She was later adopted and raised by the Casull family. Her biological siblings, Shannon and Raquel Casull, act as her bodyguards throughout their adventure. Blonde-haired and blue-eyed, she is a sweet and cheerful girl with an unhealthy appetite, but she wonders how so much suffering can come from her existence and blames herself for it.

According to the prophecy, on the day of her sixteenth birthday, her power to destroy Providence would have reached its zenith and the spell within her would activate. To prevent this, Pacifica is stabbed and killed by her adopted twin brother, Forsyth, the crown prince. After her death, Pacifica meets Celia Mauser. Pacifica is a physical recreation of Celia. Celia is a seer who was a vital component in the fight against the aliens during the Genesis Wars. 10,000 years ago, as humans were losing the war with the aliens and were going to be sealed, Browning and the other remaining humans came up with a plan to break free of the sealed world by specifically calculating and scattering DNA to prepare the Providence Breaker – who would be able to resist the mind control of the Peacemakers and destroy the very foundations of the system sealing in the humans to free mankind. This Providence Breaker is revealed to be Pacifica and her family. 

Despite dying before the power could reach its peak, Pacifica was strong enough so that the destruction of Providence was still possible. After learning why Providence was created, Celia gives Pacifica the choice to determine humanity's future. Even though Pacifica is sympathetic to having a protected, ideal world to live in, she chooses instead to let humans make their own choices, and as a result of this decision, Celia disappears and Providence is destroyed, freeing mankind once and for all. After everything is over and done with and the world is finally safe, technically, Pacifica's life is restored and she returns to her family farm with Shannon, Raquel, and Zefiris.

Pacifica has many love interests, but the two notable ones in the story are Full and Leopold.

Shannon Casull

 is the son of Yuhma and Carol Casull, Raquel's younger brother and Pacifica's older foster brother. Shannon is a skilled swordsman who has sworn to defend Pacifica's life no matter what, but he is reserved and calm despite the many difficulties in the Casull siblings' lives. He is a very protective person. Although Pacifica is on his top priority list, he also looks out for Raquel, Winia Chester, the little girl Cin (Cz's compressed form) and eventually Zefiris. He is a practical man and can cook, clean and shop for groceries, but, when provoked, Shannon loses control of himself not listening to anyone. In episode 6 of the anime, Shannon becomes a temporary Dragon Knight ("D-Knight") and is capable of using the power of a Dragoon named Zefiris to fight the Peacemakers. At one point, Shannon loses his trust in Zefiris. During this time, whenever he merges with the Dragoon, it becomes nearly impossible for him defeat the Peacemakers. Later in the series, he gives Zefiris his trust and fully merges with her. The two fight alongside the Gigas (or Gigantes) against the two remaining Peacemakers. He looks almost exactly like Zefiris's old master, Lord Beckham Mauser, due to the genetic engineering used to create him, Pacifica and Raquel, as explained by Zefiris. In the end, Shannon manages to unlock the full power of the D-Knight and helps to retrieve Pacifica after her death, bringing her back to Earth. He later returns to his family farm with Pacifica, Raquel and Zefiris.

Raquel Casull
 is the oldest of the Casull children, Shannon's sister and Pacifica's foster sister. She is a powerful magic-user and able to cast spells faster than many others. She has assumed a motherly role in the family and is always kind and calm. Like Shannon, she has a striking resemblance to Celia and Beckenham Mauser's sister due to the genetic engineering used in their birth. It is however noted that she is often left the odd one out because of Shannon and Pacifica's close relationship. She does not seem to mind, but she is considerably less close to either of her siblings as they are to each other. Her concern for Pacifica is clear in some episodes; for example, when they went to the cave of bugs to look plants for Pacifica's antidote, she says that she does not mind the danger because her sister's life is in danger. Raquel often encourages Shannon's close relationship with Pacifica by sending her brother out to look for and comfort Pacifica. She is the type to comfort Pacifica by doing something, rather than speaking it. Despite her kind, calm and goofy nature, she will not hesitate to strike down anyone in her way of protecting Pacifica or Shannon. Raquel's normal kindness often serves as a cover for a more aggressive and tactical mind that asserts itself whenever Pacifica or Shannon are in danger. Raquel prepared her father, Yuhma, for death and lit the pyre. Toward the end of the series, Raquel starts to become doubtful while separated from Pacifica and Shannon. When she does find Pacifica (with amnesia), she admits that she does not know what to do, still not knowing where her brother is. Her most vulnerable state is during the last episode, as she holds the stabbed Pacifica in her arms. She later returns to her family farm with Pacifica, Shannon and Zefiris.

Christopher Armalite

Raised as a soldier by the military of the Kingdom of Leinwan,  is the leader of the elite army unit Obstinate Arrow. He is an expert fighter and wields a large battle axe that can be folded and concealed. He is the honorable antagonist of the series, but also a developing hero. Ordered to eliminate the Scrapped Princess, he kidnaps Winia Chester to lay a trap for Pacifica's guardians. Shannon beats him in a duel in Glass Canyon and asks him to stay away in exchange for sparing his life. Before Obstinate Arrow can leave the city of Taurus, however, they learn that a Peacemaker (Galil) has come to deal with the Scrapped Princess and the whole city is at risk. The soldiers briefly ally themselves with the Casulls to fend off the Peacemaker's onslaught. To gain access to the castle's resources, Christopher is officially adopted by Obstinate Arrow's superior, Baroness Bairach, becoming Christopher Bairach. He befriends the crown prince, Forsyth, and researches Grendel's prophecies to understand the Scrapped Princess's true destiny. After the Baroness is dismissed from commanding Obstinate Arrow, the team serves under the Major. Christopher arrests Pacifica then, but later helps her escape. Having "betrayed" the King, he joins the Casulls. When Zefiris asks him why he defends Pacifica, even though he does not carry the guardian gene, he simply answers that it is because he chooses to. After Providence is 'destroyed' and mankind is freed, he marries Winia and becomes good friends with the Casulls, while maintaining his friendship with Prince Forsyth.

Winia Chester
 is an introverted and lonesome inn-maid, taken in and raised by her uncle out of pity after her parents died. She spends time with and becomes friends with Pacifica, and it is one of the few times she has smiled and laughed since her parents were killed. When Christopher kidnaps her and takes her to the Glass Canyon, Pacifica's identity as the Scrapped Princess is revealed to her. Although initially confused and unable to accept the fact that her new friend is "the poison that will destroy the world", Winia eventually comes around, and continues to have a close friendship with Pacifica. In the Glass Canyon, she discovers that her kidnapper, Christopher, is also an orphan. After the brief kidnapping episode, she develops a deep attraction to Christopher. After Providence is 'destroyed' and mankind is freed, she is seen with Christopher, knitting some pink clothes in a carriage. Winia also ends up being good friends with the Casulls.

Leopold Scorpus
, also known as Leo, is a clumsy but well-meaning traveling lordling who wishes to become a noble knight. He joins the Casull siblings after discovering them being "harassed" by a group of bandits. Utterly charmed by Pacifica, he vows to protect her and one day marry her. As the first son of Duke Scorpus and heir to his father's territory, he begins as an idealistic youth seeking to join the order of Amber Knights. After meeting the retired legendary knight Doyle Barrett, he begins to question the meaning of justice and chivalry, setting his quest to knighthood in second priority until he