# Tashi Namgyal Academy

Tashi Namgyal Academy (TNA) is a public school in the Himalayan state of Sikkim in India. It was founded in 1926 by the late Sir Tashi Namgyal, KCSI, KCIE, the 11th consecrated Ruler of Sikkim. It is an autonomous English-medium, co-educational and residential-cum-day school.

The Founder

Sir Tashi Namgyal (Sikkimese: བཀྲ་ཤིས་རྣམ་རྒྱལ་; Wylie: Bkra-shis Rnam-rgyal) (26 October 1893 – 2 December 1963) was the ruling Chogyal (King) of Sikkim from 1914 to 1963. He was the son of Thutob Namgyal.

Namgyal was the 11th ruler of the Namgyal dynasty of Sikkim, succeeding his half brother Sidkeong Tulku Namgyal, who had ruled from February to December in 1914, till his death from heart failure. Born in Tibet and crowned by the 13th Dalai Lama, Thubten Gyatso, he was a strong advocate for closer links with India.

He was married in October 1918 to Kunzang Dechen, and they had 3 sons and 3 daughters. The eldest son, Prince Paljor Namgyal, died in 1941 in a plane crash during World War II. On his death he was succeeded as Chogyal by his second son Palden Thondup Namgyal.

During his reign, he is known for land reform and free elections. He also favoured closer links between Sikkim, India and Tibet. Many people attribute his death to Indian agents.

About a decade after his death, his son Palden Thondup Namgyal, the incumbent hereditary Chogyal was formally deposed. Prime Minister Lhendup Dorji appealed to India to change the status of Sikkim from protectorate to statehood. On 16 May 1975, Sikkim was officially made the 22nd state of Indian.

Beginnings
Tashi Namgyal Academy was founded in 1926 by the late Sir Tashi Namgyal, K.C.S.I. & K.C.I.E., the eleventh consecrated Ruler of Sikkim. The present Academy was shaped out of Sir Tashi Namgyal High School which was affiliated with Calcutta University. As a High School it was headed by three headmasters at various times, Mr. C.E. Dudley was the first headmaster. He established the school in the military barracks used by troops of Sir Francis Younghusband in 1903. Mr. A.K. Sarkar took over from Mr. Dudley and Mr. K.L. Kapoor was the last headmaster in the line.

In 1956, Sir Tashi Namgyal took a decision to establish a public school in Sikkim. In April 1956, Mr. V.N. Langer, M.A (English), M.A. (Economics), LL.B. L.T., a Housemaster from Daly College, Indore was offered a post of Principal. He was entrusted with the task of organizing a new school and reorganizing the old one on modern lines, Mr. N.K. Rustumji, ICS, the then Dewan of Sikkim, was driving force in drawing out plans for a school which was to run on public school lines. Prince Palden Thondup Namgyal, second son of the Founder, along with Dewan N.K. Rustumji and Mr. V.N. Langer formed an excellent team to reorganize the school on public school lines, and they were the people who were the main architects of Tashi Namgyal Academy. A Governing Body for the administration, management and control of Sir Tashi Namgyal High School, Gangtok was constituted under the Chairmanship of Maharaja Kumar Saheb.

Plans were drawn up first for the additional buildings for the public school and work started on some of these in 1957. The school was blessed by the August visit of Prime Minister, Shri Jawaharlal Nehru on 1 October 1958 who left behind his impressive remarks as: "It is a pleasure to visit this school so delightfully situated, young as it is, it has already developed well and the boys are bright and attractive looking. All best wishes for its progress."

In addition to this the then Political Officer of Sikkim and Bhutan,  Shri Apa B. Pant, too, visited this school on 25 October 1958 and left behind the following comments; "Whenever I visit this school, I see each time change-change for the better. I am sure that under able guidance of Shri Langer this school will develop into an institution where not only future citizens of Sikkim will learn to serve their country, but where sectarianism, communalism, bigotry, small mindedness, pursuit of power will have no place. Let us hope that this institution will guide the youth of Sikkim to become humane, compassionate and full of spirit of humanity and service and in short to follow Dharma."

The year 1959 was a landmark in the annals of the institution. On the auspicious occasion of the opening of the Annexe of Tashi Namgyal Academy, the main school building on 14 April 1959, His Highness Sir Tashi Namgyal outlined the reason for which the school was renamed as Tashi Namgyal Academy. He said, "In the past it has been difficult for children of poor parents to enjoy the advantage of the best possible schooling as they could not afford admission to the more highly organized institution in Darjeeling, Kalimpong and elsewhere. It has been decided, therefore, to build up an institution in Sikkim itself which would stand comparison with the best institution of its kind outside the country. This institution would not be a substitute for, but in addition to the normal type of High Schools that has been established in other parts of Sikkim. As, however, the standard of teaching would be of a higher level of a special nature, the institution being designated as an "Academy".

In course of time, when we also have been able to establish, in addition to the Academy the usual pattern of High School in Gangtok, the fees for admission to the Academy will be proportionately raised. But the Darbar will ensure that there will be ample scope for meritorious children of poor parents to gain admission to the Academy on the result of Competitive Scholarship Examinations.

Apart from the purpose, this academy will provide a higher quality of schooling within Sikkim itself, an equally important objective will be to impart a pattern of education particularly suited to special needs of Sikkim. Our patterns of education should, therefore, be so designed that students will be inspired with love of country and that from this love of country should arise also this view that we have chosen the new motto – for the Academy – "Service Through Knowledge". For it is their hope that the knowledge that will be imparted here will be directed, above all, to service, and such service must comprise, above all, service to country. The new school crest has been designed on the pattern of traditional Sikkimese Art. It portrays the sword that cuts away ignorance, symbolizing knowledge, while the Mountains that form the background are the mountains of the motherland, the sacred peak of Khangchendzonga. And so, its crest too, symbolizes the spirit of the Academy, which is the seeking of knowledge not for its own sake, but for service to country and in the spirit of Sikkim’s culture and religious heritage.

"In opening this new Annex, I express my confident hope that Academy will in due course, rear citizens of whom Sikkim will have reason to be proud, that it will grow in stature and gain in luster as the cradle of Sikkim’s future generations and so the molder of her destiny."
Maharaja Kumar Palden Thondup Namgyal, the Chairman of the Governing Body, on the occasion of the opening of the Annex said, "The Principal objective of the Darbar has been to provide education that will be consistent both with the culture, heritage and economic conditions of Sikkim. So that youths of Sikkim may grow into people with love for one’s country and heritage and useful citizens of Sikkim".

On 26 May 1959, the Rules concerning Departmental procedures of the Academy and on 24 December 1959 Financial and Administrative Powers of the Principal were defined. With the additional buildings and a defined campus, the Junior Section was started with classes from Kindergarten to class III. Increase in students roll necessitated another hostel in the two-storied building then known as Northern Block, half for Nepali boarders and half for Bhutia-Lepcha boarders with a dining hall at the site now occupied by Science Block with separate kitchens for Nepali and Bhutia-Lepcha boys. The old junior school block where Lower Kindergarten classes were held then served as the Hall with a capacity of approximately 300 people with a low stage.

In October 1961, the Auditorium was opened with a seating capacity of 600 built at a cost of Rs. 3 Lakhs. The same year the school was upgraded to the Higher Secondary Level (Class XI) and the first batch passed out in 1964. In May 1964, another New Hostel was added across the Football field (the present Boys’ Hostel), the campus was demarcated with two main gates, the upper Gate and the Main Lower Gate, and both built in traditional Sikkimese architecture.

In 1964 the idea of reorganizing Tashi Namgyal Academy on public school lines as coeducational institution was implemented. It was decided to have in the beginning only seven classes starting from Kindergarten to VI as the highest class and then to go on adding one higher class every year till it reached class XI, the Final School Certificate Stage. This policy, it was hoped, would enable to