# Lexus LF

The Lexus LF line is a series of concept cars built by Lexus, the luxury vehicle division of Toyota Motor Corporation. The "LF" designation refers to Lexus Future. The LF Series vehicles features coupes/convertibles, including: the LF-A, the LF-A Roadster, LF-LC, LF-CC, and the LF-C; sedans: the LF-S, LF-Sh, and LF-Gh; crossover SUVs: the LF-X and LF-Xh; and hatchbacks: the LF-Ch. The first concept vehicle of the LF Series, the LF-X, appeared in 2003. The LF Series utilizes L-finesse, a design philosophy named for "Leading Edge" and "finesse", which debuted on the LF Series concepts and later extended to all new production Lexus vehicles. New vehicle technologies on the LF Series include advanced instrumentation, multiple driver-selected vehicle configurations, hybrid and experimental powertrains, and unconventional driver interface designs. The vehicles also feature new design cues which derive from the L-finesse design language of "Intriguing Elegance" (純), "Incisive Simplicity" (妙), and "Seamless Anticipation" (予). Several of the LF concept vehicles have appeared close to their production counterparts, while the design cues of other LF concepts appeared on more distinctly different production vehicles.

LF-A

The LF-A is a 2-door exotic concept car built as a prospective halo car for the Lexus division. Three versions have been shown, the first of which debuted at the 2005 North American International Auto Show (NAIAS). The designation stands for Lexus Future-Advance. The first concept was about five inches shorter than the Porsche 911 Turbo (996) with a wheelbase about nine inches longer, and was nearly  in height about equal to the Ferrari F430 with a width of .  It was powered by a V10 engine displacing 4.8 liters, generating over  and had a top speed around . To maintain a near ideal weight distribution a rear transaxle is used and the radiators are mounted at the rear.  A second revised version with a more completely furnished interior and exterior was unveiled two years later at the 2007 NAIAS as a possible future member of the Lexus F marque performance lineup.  The interior gauges revealed a 9,000 RPM redline, however news reports speculated that it might not make the production version. The third version of the LF-A concept, a roadster model, premiered in 2008.

Reports in 2006 indicated that the LF-A concept car had received the green-light for production. Prototypes of the LF-A had been spotted regularly undergoing testing at Nürburgring since October 2004, the famous motorsport race track in Nürburg, Germany. Numerous test vehicles have been equipped with automatic retractable rear wings, and carbon ceramic brake discs. The production vehicles were expected to carry V10 engines, putting the car in market competition with the Lamborghini Gallardo, Ferrari F430, the Porsche 911 (997), and the Chevrolet Corvette C6 ZR1. Pricing was estimated at over $225,000, and close to $400,000. In December 2007, Auto Express reported that the LF-A had set an unofficial 7:24 lap record at the Nürburgring. The production $375,000 Lexus LFA supercar debuted in 2009.

LF-AR

Designated LF-AR or LF-A Roadster, the roadster version of the LF-A concept car was first displayed at the North American International Auto Show in Detroit on January 13, 2008. Derived from the LF-A, the designation stands for Lexus Future-Advance Roadster. Initial specifications for the roadster are a V10 engine under 5.0 L with over  and a top speed of over . The LF-A Roadster was also revealed to have a retractable rear spoiler for improved handling at speed. The LF-A Roadster show model featured side cameras in place of standard mirrors, and a two-tone interior.  The model was designated with "F" badges indicating its place as a member of the Lexus F performance division.

After its debut at the 2008 North American International Auto Show, the LF-A Roadster was also shown at the 2008 Pebble Beach Concours d'Elegance, the 2008 Geneva Motor Show, the United States Open Championship tournament, and at Lexus exhibits in Japan. On August 12, 2009, news reports suggested that the LF-A would be released as the LF-L, with the change in name from A to L to signify its appearances at Le Mans and to draw on its pre-production racing development. However, a production non-convertible designated LFA premiered in October 2009.

LF-C

The LF-C is a concept car Lexus unveiled at the 2004 New York Auto Show. This concept featured a retractable hardtop design which allowed for coupe, convertible, targa, or speedster configurations via a four-position glass roof. The designation stands for Lexus Future-Coupe. The LF-C is fitted with a V8 engine and rear-wheel drive. Unique features included a one-touch activation button, crystal LED taillamps, suede bucket seats, a 3D instrument panel, drive-by-wire, and a translucent crystal center console with blue backlighting. The LF-C also featured retractable rear-view cameras in place of side mirrors on the doors and rear bumper.

The design choices shown in the LF-C hinted at a convertible version of the IS 250/350. Design cues from the LF-C, particularly in the front fascia, appeared in production form with the debut of the second generation Lexus IS. The LF-C concept measured  long,  wide, and  in height, with a wheelbase of .

LF-C2

The LF-C2 is a concept car Lexus unveiled at the 2014 Los Angeles Auto Show.

LF-Ch

The LF-Ch is a concept four-door hatchback Lexus unveiled in September 2009 at the Frankfurt International Motor Show.  The designation refers to Lexus Future-Compact hybrid. The LF-Ch exterior featured a more aggressive interpretation of the L-finesse design language, with an arching roofline, rear spoiler, and single-bar grille. The rear door handles were integrated into the C-pillar window trim. The concept was equipped with a hybrid 2.4 L inline-four gasoline engine with an electric motor. Inside, the LF-Ch featured wood, polished aluminum, and semi-aniline leather, along with paddle shifters, a turbine-style instrument panel, and Lexus' Remote Touch control interface with pop-up information screen. The rear seat featured entertainment options in the form of headrest-mounted iPhone docks.

The LF-Ch was intended to preview a forthcoming premium compact vehicle, which was expected to enter production in the near future and targeted at European markets. Such a vehicle, originally codenamed C-Premium in early press reports, was designated CT 200h, CT 300h, or CT 400h in trademark applications filed in June 2009 in the US and in Canada. The LF-Ch concept measured  long,  wide, and  in height, with a wheelbase of . It may very well presumptively be a Lexus based on the Toyota Corolla.

LF-CC

The LF-CC (Lexus Future-Compact Coupe) is a concept car revealed at the October 2012 Paris Motor Show as a preview of the next generation Lexus IS. The LF-CC concept is a rear-wheel drive coupe incorporating designs from LF-LC concept and Lexus LFA. It includes a 2.5 litre 4-cylinder Atkinson cycle petrol engine with D-4S direct injection technology, water-cooled permanent magnet electric motor, 3 LED-projector headlamp design, daytime running lights integrated into the upper bumper surface, rear spoiler integrated within the boot lid, L-shaped combination lamps with three-dimensional design, Fluid Titanium body colour and a two-zone dashboard. The seats, door panels and instrument binnacle hood are upholstered in amber leather.

LF-FC

The LF-FC (Lexus Future-Fuel Cell) is a concept car revealed at the October 2015 Tokyo Motor Show as a preview of the next generation Lexus LS.

LF-Gh

The LF-Gh which stands for Lexus Future Grand-touring Hybrid is Lexus's latest LF concept vehicle which debuted at the 2011 New York International Auto Show.  The LF-Gh is a rear wheel drive hybrid platform powered by a Lexus Hybrid Drive powertrain. The LF-Gh also provide a hint of what future Lexus models, mainly the Lexus GS which was scheduled for late 2011, might look like. The front and the back of the LF-Gh is equipped with LED headlights, daytime running lights, and taillights. To improve aerodynamics the LF-Gh's door handles are sealed into the door panel and could be pushed to open out. the large spindle grille on the front of the LF-Gh brings out the aggressiveness of the design. Though the interior has been teased online, Lexus never once opened the doors of the LF-Gh to reveal the full interior, which is why most critics are rumoring that the LF-Gh is a nutshell concept, in which only the exterior has purpose, and the inside components are not made up.

LF-LC

Designated LF-LC for Lexus Future-Luxury Coupe, the concept two-door vehicle premiered in January 2012 at the North American International Auto Show.  The vehicle's exterior and interior styling was created by the Calty Design Research center in Newport Beach, California, which previously developed the exterior styling of the first generation Lexus SC coupe and the fourth generation