# Biodiesel by region

This article describes the use and availability of biodiesel in various countries around the world.

Argentina
Argentina’s biodiesel industries are booming as a result of domestic demand along with strong export markets. Biodiesel production in Argentina grew from 130,000 tons in 2006 to 2.5 million tons in 2010, expecting to produce 3 million tons by 2011. Argentina is a net exporter of biodiesel, nearly all of which was shipped to Europe, overtaking in production the U.S. this year. Argentina ranks as the world’s fourth largest producer (by 2011, after Germany, France and Brazil), due to its rapidly emerging domestic market. Argentina is considering a raise from B7 to B10, increasing consumption to 1.3 million tons per year but negotiations need to happen with the automotive industry first.

The Argentine biodiesel industry is mainly based on the use of soybean as feedstock. Production is geographically concentrated in the provinces of Buenos Aires and Santa Fe. Almost all major players in Argentina’s vegetable oil industry own or are constructing biodiesel plants.

Brazil

Brazil opened a commercial biodiesel refinery in March 2005. It is capable of producing 12,000 m³ (3.2 million US gallons) per year of biodiesel fuel. Feedstocks can be a variety of sunflower oil, soybean oil, or castor bean oil. The finished product will be a blend of diesel fuel with 2% biodiesel and, after 2013, 5% biodiesel, both usable in unmodified diesel engines. As of 2005, there were 3 refineries and 7 that are planned to open. These three factories were capable of producing 45.6 million of liters per year.

Petrobras (the Brazilian national petroleum company) launched an innovative system, making biodiesel (called H-Bio) from the petroleum refinery.
In Brazil, castor bean is the best option to make biodiesel, because it's easier to plant and costs less than soybean, sunflower or other seeds.

Belgium
In Belgium, there are refineries in Ertvelde (belonging to the company Oleon) and at Feluy.

Cambodia
Phnom Penh Biodiesel Cambodia  started producing biodiesel in 2007 using a 100-liter biodiesel batch processor imported from Thailand. Biodiesel Cambodia focused on biodiesel production from Jatropha curcas plants. They originally worked on grass roots projects, encouraging farmers to plant Jatropha. In 2008 Biodiesel Cambodia started focusing on large scale plantations and attempted to partner with large scale land owners and investors. When oil prices crashed suddenly investors pulled out and Biodiesel Cambodia sold their production equipment and ceased operations in late 2008.

Sihanoukville in 2007 a non-profit named Planet Biodiesel Outreach Cambodia started a small scale biodiesel production plant. The biodiesel was used to operate their school bus and to provide fuel for their travel company. Their idea was to operate an environmentally friendly tour company and to use the proceeds to run a school for impoverished Cambodian children and provide food, clothing, education, school supplies and transportation free of charge. They ran their school bus on 100% biodiesel that was produced from waste vegetable oil. Planet Biodiesel Outreach Cambodia shut down in 2008 due to lack of donor funding and the inability to raise enough revenue from their tour company.

Siem Reap - In 2008 Angkor Hospital for Children decided they wanted to power their new visitor center with 100% biodiesel in an effort to be environmentally responsible. A new local NGO was formed called Naga Biofuels to produce the biodiesel from used cooking oil. Naga Biofuels worked with Angkor Hospital and also partnered with several other non-profits in Cambodia to produce biodiesel and a glycerin based soap from used cooking oil. In 2011 Naga Biofuels started working with Angkor Golf Resort and several other businesses and expanded their operations.

After 7 years of being the only biodiesel producer in Cambodia, Naga Biofuels changed their name to Naga Earth and started focusing on additional recycling projects in the Kingdom of Cambodia. As of July 2016, they currently are partnering with 25 different businesses and NGOs that are using their biodiesel.

Canada
The Government of Canada exempted biodiesel from the federal excise tax on diesel in the March 2003 budget.
However Government of Canada re-introduced federal excise tax on Bio-Diesel in the March 2013 budget and took effect on April 1, 2014.
 Quebec - Rothsay of Ville Ste Catherine, Quebec, produces 35,000 m³ of biodiesel per year. The shuttle bus connecting students between the two campuses of Concordia University are run solely on Biodiesel. Targray, one of the most important B99 and B100 biodiesel suppliers in North America, is headquartered in Kirkland, Quebec, an on-island suburb of Montreal.
 Nova Scotia - The Provincial Government of Nova Scotia uses biodiesel in some public buildings for heating as well as (in more isolated cases) for public transportation. Halifax Regional Municipality has converted its bus fleet to biodiesel, with a future demand of 7,500 m³ of B20 (20% biodiesel fuel mixture) to B50—reducing biodiesel content in low temperatures to avoid gelling issues—and 3,000 m³ split between B20 and B100 for building heat. The municipality forecasts a greenhouse gas reduction of over 9,000 tonnes CO2 equivalents (4,250 tonnes from fleet use and 5,000 tonnes from building heating) if fully implemented. Private sector uptake is slower—but not unheard of—possibly due to a lack of price differential with petroleum fuel and a lack of federal and provincial tax rebating. Ocean Nutrition Canada produces    of fatty acid ethyl esters annually as a byproduct of its Omega-3 fatty acid processing.
 Ontario - Great Lakes Biodiesel the Largest Producer of Biodiesel in Canada. Annual Production: 170 million liters per year. Completed and started production in October 2013.
Methes Energies Canada Inc. of Mississauga is processing out of two facilities (Sombra and Mississauga) with a production capacity of 55 million liters of biodiesel per year. 
Biox Corporation of Oakville is building a biodiesel processing plant in the Hamilton harbor industrial lands, due for completion in the first half of 2006. There are also a few retail filling stations selling biodiesel to motorists in Toronto and Unionville. 
SIL-TRI Biofuels in Hamilton also delivers B1-B100 blends in bulk for commercial users.
 Manitoba A rush of building of biodiesel plants in 2005 and 2006 started in June 2005 with Bifrost Bio-Diesel in Arborg. In addition, biodiesel is made by individuals and farmers for personal use.
 British Columbia - the cooperative association proves a successful structure for micro-economy-of-scale biodiesel production reaching the end-user. Vancouver Biodiesel Co-op, Nelson Biodiesel Co-op, WISE Energy and Island Biodiesel Co-op are notable examples.

The Canadian government has stated a goal of producing 500 million liters of biodiesel by 2010.

China 

At least two publicly traded companies, China Clean Energy, Inc. and Gushan, manufacture and sell significant amounts of biodiesel in China.

Costa Rica

Costa Rica is a large producer of crude palm oil and this has spurred interest in biodiesel. Currently several small biodiesel production projects are starting in the country. There are also biodiesel reactor manufacturers in Costa Rica which provide equipment to the Central American and Caribbean region.

Czech Republic
Czech production of biodiesel was already above 60,000 m³ per year by the early 1990s and is now even larger. Many of the plants are very large, including one in Olomouc which produces almost 40,000 m³ per year. From the summer of 2004, Czech producers of biodiesel for blend receive a subsidy of roughly CEK 9.50/kg. All Škoda diesels built since 1996 are warrantied for DIN EN 590 biodiesel use.

European Union 

According to EU Strategy for Biofuels at year 2010 target is 5.75% market share for biofuels. At year 2020 the target is 10% market share.

European standard DIN EN 14214 and DIN EN 590 describes the physical properties of diesel fuels.

The EU and environmental organization e.g. Greenpeace demand transparent criteria for sustainable biofuel production. Concern includes deforestation for oil palms in Indonesia and deforestation in Brazil.

Finland 
 Neste Oil is producer of NExBTL renewable diesel oil. NExBTL is first renewable fuel suitable for all diesel engines in the world. Neste Oil claims EN-590 outperforms both regular diesel as well as other biodiesels on the market.

France 

The French government have ambitious objectives of incorporation of biofuels in fuels: 5,75% (energy value) in 2008, 7% in 2010 and 10% by 2015.

Germany

According to the Union zur Förderung von Öl- und Proteinpflanzen UFOP (Union to promote oil- and protein plants), in 2006 the sale of biodiesel through German gas stations rose to 2,000,000 m³, although it is only available at privately owned filling stations and generally not avail