# The Harsh Cry of the Heron

The Harsh Cry of the Heron is the sequel to Lian Hearn's popular Tales of the Otori trilogy, first published on March 7, 2006.  The novel is set sixteen years after the events of the Trilogy, and covers a period of about two years.  It chronicles the events that ultimately lead to Takeo's downfall, in accordance with the prophecy spoken of him years before.

Synopsis

Otori Takeo and Kaede are now the prosperous rulers of the Three Countries. Shigeko, their eldest daughter and heir, will inherit the domain of Maruyama when she comes of age, and the Three Countries upon Takeo's death. Their younger daughters Maya and Miki are seen as cursed, due to superstitions concerning twins and their formidable Tribe talents. Although shunned by many, including their mother, they are loved by Takeo and Shigeko. Takeo's only fear is the prophecy concerning his death: he can only be killed by his son.  His first, illegitimate son, Hisao (by Yuki) has been raised by the exiled Kikuta family, to one day be used to assassinate Takeo. Kaede soon becomes pregnant with Takeo's second son.

A new threat to Takeo has appeared. Takeo's vassal Arai Zenko and his wife Hana (Kaede's sister) have approached Saga Hideki, a warlord who has conquered most of the Eight Islands under the Emperor's mandate. Saga requests that Takeo submit himself to the Emperor and abdicate; Takeo and Kaede's son is born just before his departure for Miyako, the Imperial capital. Meanwhile, Muto Kenji, at the end of his years, attempts in vain to negotiate with Akio (the Kikuta Master) to see his grandson, Hisao.  As Kenji attempts to flee with him he realizes Hisao is a ghostmaster, capable of communicating with the souls of the dead. The soul of his mother, Yuki, is haunting him. Unable to escape Akio, Kenji commits suicide. His death divides the Muto family's loyalty between Kenji's niece Shizuka (the mother of Zenko and Taku, loyal to Takeo) and Zenko, who secretly shelters Akio and Hisao in his capital of Kumamoto despite publicly submitting to Takeo. Zenko has also converted to Christianity in order to gain military support from Portuguese missionaries who Takeo has restricted to the port of Hofu. 

Maya, whose Tribe talents are rather volatile, absorbs the spirit of a cat and struggles to control it, becoming increasingly erratic and dangerous. She and Miki are separated, and Maya is trained under Taku and his lover, Sada. Taku and Sada are killed on Zenko's orders by Akio and Hisao, who capture Maya near Hofu. Hisao, who exercises some control over Maya's cat spirit, is finally able to communicate with Yuki's spirit, but rejects her pleas to spare Takeo's life.  Maya escapes aided by Miki, and they attempt to return to Hagi (the Otori capital) to reveal Zenko's treachery. Yuki's spirit aides them along their journey.

Rather than battle Saga's forces, Takeo and his retinue engage in a bowmanship contest in Miyako: the victor will rule the Three Countries. Due to Takeo's crippled hand, Shigeko takes his place. Shigeko wins, and Takeo departs in glory, leaving behind an exotic animal, a Kirin (likely a giraffe or an okapi), as a gift for the Emperor. However, the Kirin breaks free and follows Takeo's entourage, which is seen as an omen and a slight on the Emperor. Saga immediately pursues them. In the resulting battle, both sides endure great losses until Shigeko shoots Saga in the eye, and he retreats.

Maya, influenced by Yuki, slips into her parents' house and accidentally kills her infant brother with the Kikuta gaze; horrified, she flees. While Kaede is overcome with grief, Hana reveals the prophecy about Takeo's death, and the existence of Hisao. Furious, Kaede orders Shigeru's house burned to the ground, then leaves with Hana and her sons as Zenko's men destroy Hagi. After abdicating in favor of Shigeko, Takeo finds Kaede and tries to reason with her, but she calls the guards.  Unwilling to fight his wife, Takeo retires to the temple at Terayama with Miki and his old friend Kubo Makoto. A few weeks later, Akio and Hisao come to kill him, but Hisao, armed with a handmade pistol, freezes and is unable to kill his father. Akio grabs the pistol, but Maya (trapped in her cat form) interferes, causing the gun to explode and kill them both. Takeo places a knife in Hisao's hands and stabs himself with it, bringing the prophecy of his death to fulfillment. He is ritually beheaded by Makoto with Jato (the Otori sword) and buried with honor, next to his adopted father Shigeru.

Following Takeo's abdication, Saga offers Shigeko a marriage-alliance allowing her to remain co-ruler in the Three Countries, which she accepts. The combined Saga and Otori armies defeat the Arai forces. Zenko and Hana commit seppuku, along with their youngest son, but at Kaede's request, Saga spares their other two sons as long as they renounce the Arai name. Kaede brings the boys to Terayama, where Makoto shows her his recorded account of Takeo's death.  Overcome with guilt and grief, she prepares to commit suicide. Only Miki's appearance makes her decide to live, for the sake of all of Takeo's children.

Characters 
Otori Takeo was the protagonist of The Tales of the Otori.  He is married to Shirakawa Kaede, with whom he jointly rules as overlord of the Three Countries.  Takeo and Kaede practice benevolent and enlightened rule, rigidly controlling foreign trade and focusing on agriculture rather than conquest.  Having been raised among the Hidden, the Tribe and the warrior class, Takeo is careful to follow no particular religion in order to prevent religious persecution.   Although beloved by the commonfolk throughout his realm and approved by most of his retainers and many of the Muto family, he remains hated by the Kikuta family and the Arai Clan.  He has three daughters, Shigeko, Maya, and Miki, and one illegitimate son: Kikuta Hisao, conceived by Muto Yuki, a past lover.  He perishes at the end of the book after abdicating in favour of Maruyama Shigeko.

Otori Kaede (formerly Shirakawa Kaede) is Takeo's wife. She had a reputation of bringing death to all men that desired her, but Takeo had evaded death for some time.  Kaede, despite being a woman in a male-dominated society, is proficient with both the sword and politics.  She loves Shigeko dearly, but she harbors mistrust for her twin daughters and can only love them from a distance.  Since she was not able to bear Takeo any sons, she is overjoyed when she later gives birth to a boy.  But when the child dies mysteriously, her sister Hana tells her about Takeo's brief liaison with Muto Yuki, the son that was conceived, and the prophecy which foretells Takeo's death can only occur at the hands of his own son.  Kaede violently rejects Takeo thereafter, only to mourn his death when she later recovers and proves that she still indeed loves him.  She finally manages to reconcile with Miki (her only surviving child besides Shigeko) at the end of the book.

Otori Shigeko (later Maruyama Shigeko) is the eldest daughter of Takeo and Kaede, a wise and reverent young woman.  She had been trained as a boy as a child in hopes of her inheriting the Three Countries as she came of age.  She is the heir and lady of the estates of Maruyama.  Although she is much her mother's daughter, she loves her father and sisters dearly.  Shigeko has always been fascinated by her sisters and always took their side of things.  She is an expert archer and is in love with her senior retainer and teacher, Sugita Hiroshi.  However, at the end of the novel, she becomes betrothed to Saga Hideki, the Emperor's commander, and inherits control the Three Countries and Takeo's sword, Jato.

Otori Maya is the daughter of Takeo and Kaede, and the twin of Miki.  As a twin, she and her sister have been feared or frowned upon because of superstitious beliefs.  She is very mischievous and possesses most, if not all, of Takeo's Tribe abilities. Because her mother fears Maya and Miki being together, one of them was always with the Tribe for training.  As revenge for a man heartily welcoming Shigeko and blatantly ignoring the twins, Maya kills his cat with the Kikuta gaze and ends up taking the dead cat's spirit within her.  After a great deal of practice, she eventually is able to take on the cat's form, but is continually haunted by cat's spirit threatening to take control of her.  She accidentally kills her baby brother with the Kikuta gaze, which horrifies her so much she retreats permanently into the cat spirit.  She is mortally wounded by Akio at the end of the book in an attempt to protect her father; Miki then mercy-kills her to prevent her being a cat spirit forever.

Otori Miki is the daughter of Takeo and Kaede, and the twin of Maya.  She, being the younger of the two, was to be killed after she was born, but Takeo had forbidden it.  Although she loves her mother, sisters, and father dearly, her mother is somewhat afraid of her.  Miki had always been in the shadow of the more talented M