# Side Show (musical)

Side Show is a musical by Bill Russell (book and lyrics) and Henry Krieger (music) based on the lives of Daisy and Violet Hilton, conjoined twins who became famous stage performers in the 1930s.

The musical opened October 16, 1997, on Broadway; Robert Longbottom directed and choreographed, and the cast starred Emily Skinner as Daisy and Alice Ripley as Violet. Despite receiving some positive reviews, the show closed after 91 performances.  A Broadway revival opened in November 2014, and closed after 56 performances.

Synopsis

Act I
The Boss, the ringmaster of a sideshow, introduces the exhibits: the bearded lady, a geek, the Cannibal King, the seraglio of a Hashemite sheik, and, lastly, his star attraction, the Siamese twins ("Come Look at the Freaks"). Buddy Foster, an aspiring musician, brings Terry Connor, a talent scout for the Orpheum Circuit, to see the Siamese twins, persuading him to enter the show all the way. Coerced ominously in by the Boss, Buddy thinks he could help them create an act and convinces Terry to meet them. The two men interrupt a birthday party for the girls ("Happy Birthday To You And To You").

Terry asks their names and they respond, "I'm Daisy" and "I'm Violet". He then asks them their dreams ("Like Everyone Else"); Violet, the gentler of the two, wants a life of a husband and home; Daisy, on the other hand, seeks fame and fortune. Terry tells them he wants to help their dreams come true ("You Deserve a Better Life"). After the Boss rudely refuses Terry's offer to be cut in on the twins' potential vaudeville career ("Crazy, Deaf and Blind"), Terry devises a scheme whereby Buddy will teach the girls a song. Jake, who plays the Cannibal King in the sideshow and is the twins' friend and protector, begs them to consider what they're getting into and the whole sideshow family adds its opinion ("The Devil You Know").

Two weeks later, Terry returns to see the twins perform and Buddy tells him how the personal dynamics with the girls are getting sticky ("More Than We Bargained For"). Before their secret late-night performance, the twins confess to each other how infatuated they are with the two men who've come into their lives ("Feelings You've Got to Hide").

The Hilton Sisters' secret debut is a great success ("When I'm By Your Side"). But the Boss discovers the subterfuge and physically threatens the twins when they tell him they're leaving the sideshow. Jake comes to their rescue and the other attractions threaten to leave also, causing the Boss to back down. Daisy, Violet and Jake, whom Terry has invited to help backstage on the twins' tour, bid farewell to their sideshow family ("Say Goodbye to the Freak Show").

It's time for the twins' first public performance, and Terry invites a group of reporters together before the show ("Overnight Sensation"). Before their vaudeville debut, the twins argue about their different ways of expressing interest in men ("Leave Me Alone"). Onstage they sing "We Share Everything" in a production number featuring them as queens of ancient Egypt.

After the twins' performing triumph, Terry and Buddy shower them with kisses. Hostile reporters ask tough questions about the girls' love life ("The Interview"). Terry and Buddy deny any romantic inclinations, leaving the twins to wonder if they will ever find romantic fulfillment ("Who Will Love Me as I Am?").

Act II
The second act opens with the Hilton Sisters at the height of their success - a Follies-style production number ("Rare Songbirds on Display"). Daisy's dream of stardom has come true but Violet seems no closer to her dream of finding a husband.

At a fancy New Year's Eve party, Buddy tries to cheer up Violet and ends up proposing marriage ("New Year's Day"). Afterwards, Terry imagines what it would be like to be alone with Daisy ("Private Conversation").

In an onstage number ("One Plus One Equals Three"), Buddy, Violet and Daisy issue an upbeat invitation to their wedding. But backstage both Daisy and Buddy separately express doubts as to how the arrangement will work. Jake overhears Buddy and, in an effort to save Violet from seemingly imminent heartbreak, confesses that he has loved her for years ("You Should Be Loved").

The night before Violet and Buddy's wedding as the grand finale of the Texas Centennial, Daisy is feeling left out. To appease her, Terry suggests going where they could be more-or-less alone together ("Tunnel of Love").

The big day arrives. Hawkers sell tickets and souvenirs ("Beautiful Day for a Wedding"). But in the dressing area, complications arise. Jake announces he is leaving. Buddy confesses he's not strong enough to marry Violet. Daisy offers a solution which will ensure a movie contract dependent on the wedding publicity ("Marry Me, Terry"). Terry cannot bring himself to publicly acknowledge what he feels for Daisy. She dismisses him and insists that Violet and Buddy go through with the ceremony, which will at least benefit everyone's career. Left alone, the twins find solace in each other ("I Will Never Leave You"). As the wedding proceeds, they reprise "Come Look at the Freaks" with full understanding and acceptance of who they are and what they are doing.

Musical Numbers

Original Broadway Production

Act I
 Come Look At The Freaks – The Boss and Company
 Happy Birthday To You And To You – Terry and Buddy
 Like Everyone Else – Daisy and Violet
 You Deserve A Better Life – Terry and Buddy
 Crazy, Deaf and Blind – The Boss
 The Devil You Know – Jake and Company
 More Than We Bargained For – Terry and Buddy
 Feelings You've Got To Hide – Daisy and Violet
 When I'm By Your Side – Daisy and Violet
 Say Goodbye To The Freak Show – Company
 Overnight Sensation – Terry and Reporters
 Leave Me Alone – Daisy and Violet
 We Share Everything – Daisy, Violet and Vaudevillian
 The Interview – Daisy, Violet and Reporters
 Buddy Kissed Me – Violet and Daisy 
 Who Will Love Me As I Am? – Daisy and Violet

Act II
 Rare Songbirds On Display – Company
 New Year's Day – Terry, Buddy, Jake, Daisy, Violet and Company
 Private Conversation – Terry and Daisy
 One Plus One Equals Three – Buddy, Daisy, Violet, and the Vale Sisters
 You Should Be Loved – Jake and Violet
 Tunnel Of Love – Terry, Buddy, Daisy, Violet and Company
 Beautiful Day For A Wedding – The Boss and Hawkers
 Buddy's Confession – Jake, Daisy, Violet, Buddy and Terry
 Marry Me, Terry – Terry and Daisy
 I Will Never Leave You – Daisy and Violet
 Finale – Company

Broadway Revival Production

Act I
 Come Look At The Freaks – Sir and Company
 I'm Daisy, I'm Violet – Daisy and Violet
 Like Everyone Else – Daisy and Violet
 Very Well-Connected – Terry and Buddy
 Before The Devil You Know – Daisy, Violet, Attractions and Jake
 The Devil You Know – Jake and Company
 Ladies And Gentlemen – Buddy
 Typical Girls Next Door – Daisy and Violet
 Flashback – Auntie, Daisy and Violet, Doctors, Houdini, Sir, and Ensemble
 Feelings You've Got to Hide – Daisy and Violet
 Say Goodbye to the Sideshow – Violet, Daisy, Terry, Jake and Ensemble
 Ready to Play – Suitors, Daisy and Violet
 The Interview – Terry, Reporters, Daisy and Violet
 Buddy Kissed Me – Violet and Daisy 
 Who Will Love Me As I Am? – Daisy, Violet and Attractions

Act II
 Stuck With You (Part One) – Buddy, Ray, Daisy and Violet
 Leave Me Alone – Daisy and Violet
 Stuck with You (Part Two) – Buddy, Ray, Daisy and Violet
 New Year's Eve Sequence  – Terry, Buddy, Jake, Daisy, Violet and Company
 Private Conversation – Terry and Daisy
 One Plus One Equals Three – Buddy, Daisy, Violet, Ray, and Ensemble
 You Should Be Loved – Jake and Violet
 Great Wedding Show – Full Company
 Buddy's Confession – Jake, Daisy, Violet, Buddy and Terry
 Marry Me, Terry – Terry and Daisy
 I Will Never Leave You – Violet and Daisy
 Finale – Full Company

Casts

Production history

Original production
Side Show opened on Broadway on October 16, 1997 at the Richard Rodgers Theatre. Robert Longbottom directed and choreographed, the sets were by Robin Wagner, costumes by Gregg Barnes and lighting by Brian MacDevitt. The cast starred Emily Skinner as Daisy Hilton and Alice Ripley as Violet Hilton. Despite receiving some positive reviews, the show closed on January 3, 1998 after 31 previews and 91 regular performances. Original producers were Manny Azenberg and former actor Wayne Rogers.

Original Broadway cast
 Emily Skinner as Daisy Hilton 
 Alice Ripley as Violet Hilton
 Norm Lewis as Jake
 Jeff McCarthy as Terry Connor, press agent
 Hugh Panaro as Buddy Foster
 Ken Jennings as The Boss
Also featured was J. Robert Spencer.

It was nominated for four Tony Awards in 1998. Although Side Show won none of these awards, it was the first and only time that two actresses were co-nominated for Best Actress in a Musical as a team. At the Tony Awards ceremony, the two stars performed the show's most popular number, "I Will Never Leave You".  Ripley and Skinner later released two albums of duets (Duets and Unsuspecting Hearts), as