Algorithms Research

Title: Sequencing Technologies and Analyses: Where Have We Been and Where Are We Going?

Abstract:
A wave of technologies transformed sequencing over a decade ago into the high-throughput era, demanding research in new computational methods to analyze these data. The applications of these sequencing technologies have continuously expanded since then. The RECOMB Satellite Workshop on Massively Parallel Sequencing (RECOMB-Seq) meeting, established in 2011, brings together leading researchers in computational genomics and genomic biology to discuss emerging frontiers in algorithm development for massively parallel sequencing data. The ninth edition of this workshop was held in Washington, DC, in George Washington University on May 3 and 4, 2019. There was an exploration of several traditional topics in sequence analysis, including genome assembly, sequence alignment, and data compression, and development of methods for new sequencing technologies, including linked reads and single-molecule long-read sequencing. Here we revisit these topics and discuss the current status and perspectives of sequencing technologies and analyses. A wave of technologies transformed sequencing over a decade ago into the high-throughput era, demanding research in new computational methods to analyze these data. The applications of these sequencing technologies have continuously expanded since then. The RECOMB Satellite Workshop on Massively Parallel Sequencing (RECOMB-Seq) meeting, established in 2011, brings together leading researchers in computational genomics and genomic biology to discuss emerging frontiers in algorithm development for massively parallel sequencing data. The ninth edition of this workshop was held in Washington, DC, in George Washington University on May 3 and 4, 2019. There was an exploration of several traditional topics in sequence analysis, including genome assembly, sequence alignment, and data compression, and development of methods for new sequencing technologies, including linked reads and single-molecule long-read sequencing. Here we revisit these topics and discuss the current status and perspectives of sequencing technologies and analyses. Advances in high-throughput sequencing technologies provide holistic investigatory capabilities to address critically important and complex problems in virtually every area of biology. These technologies have led to an explosive growth of the amount of sequencing data being generated every year. For example, the Human Genome Project cost billions of dollars and took a decade to complete, whereas more than 100,000 human genomes have been sequenced over the past 5 years. In addition to the advancements in throughput and cost, a number of novel sequencing technologies have emerged, including ultra-long read sequencing (e.g., Nanopore), high-resolution restriction maps (e.g., Bionano data), linked-read sequencing technologies, and cross-linking methods (see Table 1 for an overview of various sequencing technologies). All these sequencing technologies have been a source of discussion and intense research. Here, we summarize some of the most recent findings and opportunities.Table 1Comparison of the Read Lengths, Error Rates, and Costs of Various DNA Sequencing TechnologiesTechnologyMethodRead LengthError Rate (%)Throughput(GB/run)IlluminaSynthesis100–300 bp0.1200–600Pacific BiosciencesSMRTSynthesis10–100 kb5–1510–20Oxford NanoporeMinIONNanoporeVariable(up to 1,000 kb)5–205–10 Open table in a new tab Assembly of genomes using shotgun sequencing of chromosomal DNA still remains a fundamental problem in the bioinformatics community. As stated by Adam Phillippy in his talk “40 Years of Genome Assembly: Are We Done Yet?” the development of strategies to assemble sequence reads was described in the late 1970s when (Staden, 1979Staden R. A strategy of DNA sequencing employing computer programs.Nucleic Acids Res. 1979; 6: 2601-2610Crossref PubMed Scopus (225) Google Scholar) stated that “With modern fast sequencing technologies and suitable computer programs it is now possible to sequence whole genomes without the need of restriction maps.” Four decades later, although reference genomes have been assembled for a number of organisms, including humans, significant challenges remain in obtaining complete assemblies routinely. As described by Phillippy, the current human reference genome (GRCh38) contains 102 gaps and lacks sequence for centromeres and other repetitive regions. Phillippy described the first “telomere-to-telomere” (T2T) assembly of the human chromosome X using a combination of long (e.g., PacBio technology) and ultra-long Nanopore sequence reads. This notable success could lead to the generation of a T2T assembly of all human chromosomes in the near future. The challenges that remain in this area are not new, but they have continued to haunt researchers for many years, namely, long repeats, heterozygosity, data accuracy, and measuring assembly quality. Toward overcoming these challenges, there have been a number of proposed computational solutions that improve the quality of both the assembly and the sequence data. Morisse et al., 2019Morisse P. Marchet C. Limasset A. Lecroq T. Lefebvre A. CONSENT: scalable self-correction of long reads with multiple sequence alignment.BioRxiv. 2019; https://doi.org/10.1101/546630Google Scholar) proposed a method for self-correction of long-read data, which combines algorithmic approaches of current state-of-the-art long-read error correction methods, namely, construction and use of multiple alignment of the reads, and subsequently, a de Bruijn graph. They demonstrate that the method is able to error correct both long and ultra-long sequence reads and is highly scalable, as it is the only method that is able to scale to a human dataset containing ultra-long reads. Marijon et al., 2019Marijon P. Chikhi R. Varré J.S. Graph analysis of fragmented long-read bacterial genome assemblies.Bioinformatics. 2019; (btz219, https://academic.oup.com/bioinformatics/advance-article-abstract/doi/10.1093/bioinformatics/btz219/5421164?redirectedFrom=fulltext)Crossref PubMed Scopus (2) Google Scholar) describe a method to analyze assembly graphs produced from long reads to recover contigs that were lost during the assembly process. They demonstrate that their method recovers useful adjacency information between contigs and show that it is able to “provide a more informative representation of fragmented assemblies, examine repeat structures, and propose likely contig orderings.” In a similar spirit Shlemov and Korobeynikov, 2019Shlemov A. Korobeynikov A. PathRacer: racing profile HMM paths on assembly graph.BioRxiv. 2019; https://doi.org/10.1101/562579Google Scholar) develop a method for analyzing the assembly graph by aligning a profile hidden Markov models to the graph to discover the set of most probable paths in the graph. It is suggested that this information can be used for putative gene finding in metagenomic samples, repeat resolution, or scaffolding. These works suggest that there is significant opportunity to improve upon error correction and assembly of long-read sequencing data and a surge in interest and potential use of ultra-long sequencing in genome assembly. Last, large sequencing projects, such as the Vertebrate Genome Project, foreshadow the need for hybrid assembly approaches and assembly frameworks wherein algorithmic ideas and approaches can be easily validated. For species with an assembled genome, the sequence reads can be aligned to this reference genome to identify genetic variants and perform a variety of other biological analyses. Therefore, alignment of DNA sequences to a genome is a fundamental computational problem. A number of methods have been developed for the problem of aligning short reads (50–200 bases in length) to a reference genome over the past 10 years (Reinert et al., 2015Reinert K. Langmead B. Weese D. Evers D.J. Alignment of next-generation sequencing reads.Annu. Rev. Genomics Hum. Genet. 2015; 16: 133-151Crossref PubMed Scopus (71) Google Scholar). Many of these alignment tools have been developed specifically for aligning reads generated using next-generation sequencing (NGS) protocols such as RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) and microRNA (miRNA) sequencing. Reads generated using RNA-seq can span exon-exon junctions, and therefore accurate mapping of RNA-seq reads requires the ability to detect spliced alignments. Zhong and Zhang, 2019Zhong C. Zhang S. CLAN: the CrossLinked reads ANalyais tool.iScience. 2016; https://doi.org/10.1016/j.isci.2019.05.038Abstract Full Text Full Text PDF Scopus (4) Google Scholar) described an alignment tool designed to enable the accurate mapping of cross-linked miRNA-mRNA reads. This tool uses a Burrows-Wheeler Transform (BWT)-based index for finding short matches but implements a number of additional optimizations to enable the sensitive mapping of duplex reads formed by miRNA-mRNA interactions. Compared with existing alignment tools such as STAR and BLASTN, this specialized alignment tool, CLAN, maps more reads and has greater accuracy. With the emergence of single-molecule long-read sequencing technologies such as Pacific Biosciences SMRT and Oxford Nanopore MinION (Pollard et al., 2018Pollard M.O. Gurdasani D. Mentzer A.J. Porter T. Sandhu M.S. Long reads: their purpose and place.Hum. Mol. Genet. 2018; 27: R234-R241Crossref PubMed Scopus (139) Google Scholar), there is an increasing need for alignment tools capable of aligning long reads. Existing NGS alignment tools are optimized for low error rates and short read lengths, whereas these technologies generate reads that are tens of kilobases long and have high error rates (5%–20%, see Table 1). Almost all short-read alignment tools use a hash table or a BWT-based index to efficiently find short matches between a query sequence and a genome. Hash-table-based approaches require the storage of a large index for finding the seed matches, which can be space prohibitive for large genomes such as those of humans. Li described the use of “minimizers,” an elegant idea that enables the detection of seed matches while storing only a fraction of the seeds (Roberts et al., 2004Roberts M. Hayes W. Hunt B.R. Mount S.M. Yorke J.A. Reducing storage requirements for biological sequence comparison.Bioinformatics. 2004; 20: 3363-3369Crossref PubMed Scopus (165) Google Scholar), to design a long-read alignment tool, Minimap2 (Li, 2018Li H. Minimap2: pairwise alignment for nucleotide sequences.Bioinformatics. 2018; 34: 3094-3100Crossref PubMed Scopus (3070) Google Scholar). This tool combines the use of minimizers with chaining and affine gap alignment to efficiently align both long DNA reads and cDNA/mRNA reads. Detection of genetic variants using sequence reads aligned to a reference genome is perhaps the most common application of NGS technologies. Similar to read alignment, many tools have been developed to detect short sequence variants (single nucleotide variants and short insertions or deletions). Using state-of-the-art tools such as GATK (DePristo et al., 2011DePristo M.A. Quintero J.C. Cruz D.F. Quintero C. Hubmann G. Foulquié-Moreno M.R. Verstrepen K.J. Thevelein J.M. Tohme J. A framework for variation discovery and genotyping using next-generation DNA sequencing data.Nat. Genet. 2011; 43: 491-498Crossref PubMed Scopus (7101) Google Scholar) both these types of variants can be reliably detected using whole-genome or whole-exome DNA sequencing. Nevertheless, other types of variants such as structural variants remain challenging to detect using NGS reads. Melissa Gymrek highlighted one such limitation of NGS for short tandem repeats (STRs). STRs (tandem repeats of 1- to 6-base-long motifs) are abundant in the human genome and are prone to mutations that can expand or contract the repeat. Expansions of STRs have been shown to cause a number of rare Mendelian diseases (Ashley, 2016Ashley E.A. Towards precision medicine.Nat. Rev. Genet. 2016; 17: 507-522Crossref PubMed Scopus (415) Google Scholar). One example of such a disease is Huntington disease, which is caused by the expansion of a trinucleotide repeat. Genotyping of STRs and detection of repeat expansions requires careful analysis to capture the signal for such events in short sequence reads. Gymrek described a computational tool, GangSTR (Mousavi et al., 2019Mousavi N. Shleizer-Burko S. Yanicky R. Gymrek M. Profiling the genome-wide landscape of tandem repeat expansions.Nucleic Acids Res. 2019; https://doi.org/10.1093/nar/gkz501Crossref PubMed Scopus (69) Google Scholar), that can accurately genotype STRs at more than 500,000 tandem repeat loci and even detect repeat expansions that are longer than the length of Illumina reads. Nevertheless, many challenges remain in this area, including genotyping GC-rich repeats and accounting for nonuniformity in sequence coverage. Similar to read mapping, detection of variants in different applications (e.g., somatic variants in cancer genomes) requires specialized tools. Charlotte Darby presented a clever approach (Darby et al., 2019Darby C.A. Fitch J.R. Brennan P.J. Kelly B.J. Bir N. Magrini V. Leonard J. Cottrell C.E. Gastier-Foster J.M. Wilson R.K. et al.Samovar: single-sample mosaic SNV calling with linked reads.iScience. 2019; https://doi.org/10.1016/j.isci.2019.05.037Abstract Full Text Full Text PDF Scopus (2) Google Scholar) to detect mosaic variants using the 10X Genomics linked-read technology (Zheng et al., 2016Zheng G.X. Lau B.T. Schnall-Levin M. Jarosz M. Bell J.M. Hindson C.M. Kyriazopoulou-Panagiotopoulou S. Masquelier D.A. Merrill L. Terry J.M. et al.Haplotyping germline and cancer genomes with high-throughput linked-read sequencing.Nat. Biotechnol. 2016; 34: 303-311Crossref PubMed Scopus (376) Google Scholar). Unlike germline variants, mosaic variants are those that are present in only a subset of the cells of an individual and are harder to detect. In contrast with standard Illumina sequencing, linked reads provide long-range haplotype information that can be leveraged for discriminating mosaic mutations (present on a subset of reads from one haplotype) from sequencing errors and other artifacts. The novel method, Samovar, assigns reads to haplotypes using the linked reads and enables accurate detection of mosaic mutations in pediatric cancer genomes without the use of matching normal datasets. Tools such as GangSTR and Samovar are crucial for realizing the full potential of whole-genome sequencing and will further enhance the use of NGS as a diagnostic tool. One limitation of these tools is that they rely on the alignment of reads to a reference genome and are designed to detect specific types of variants. There is a growing interest in alignment-free variant detection and genotyping methods for NGS data. Such methods utilize the information contained within the set of k-mers (and their counts) observed in the sequence reads and can be used to detect almost all types of sequence variants (Nordstrom et al., 2013Nordstrom K.J. Albani M.C. James G.V. Gutjahr C. Hartwig B. Turck F. Paszkowski U. Coupland G. Schneeberger K. Mutation identification by direct comparison of whole- genome sequencing data from mutant and wild-type individuals using k-mers.Nat. Biotechnol. 2013; 31: 325-330Crossref PubMed Scopus (114) Google Scholar). Daniel Standage presented a method, Kevlar (Standage et al., 2019Standage D.S. Titus Brown C. Hormozdiari F. Kevlar: a mapping-free framework for accurate discovery of de novo variants.BioRxiv. 2019; https://doi.org/10.1101/549154Crossref Google Scholar), that detects de novo variants in an individual's genome by identifying frequent k-mers that are either completely absent or appear at very frequency in the genomes of the parents. This alignment-free approach can detect SNVs, short indels, and even structural variants. Alignment-free approaches are also valuable for genotyping known variants in a sequenced genome. Luca Denti described MALVA (Bernardini et al., 2019Bernardini G. Bonizzoni P. Denti L. Previtali M. Alexander Schönhuth A. MALVA: genotyping by Mapping-free ALlele detection of known VAriants.BioRxiv. 2019; https://doi.org/10.1101/575126Crossref Google Scholar), which can genotype both SNVs and short indels efficiently and improves upon previous methods for this problem. The success of alignment-free methods suggests that approaches that combine k-mer-based analysis with reference-based mapping could maximize accuracy for variant detection and genotyping using NGS reads. The 1000 Genomes Project (The 1000 Genomes Project Consortium, 2015The 1000 Genomes Project ConsortiumA global reference for human genetic variation.Nature. 2015; 526: 68-74Crossref PubMed Scopus (8429) Google Scholar) is now largely completed, and now the 100,000 Genomes Project is well underway (Turnbull et al., 2018Turnbull C. Scott R.H. Thomas E. Jones L. Murugaesu N. Pretty F.B. Halai D. Baple E. Craig C. Hamblin A. et al.The 100,000 Genomes Project: bringing whole genome sequencing to the NHS.Br. Med. J. 2018; 361: k1687Crossref PubMed Scopus (217) Google Scholar). With no compression, the raw data for 100,000 human genomes requires roughly 300 terabytes of disk space. Given the size of the data and its continual growth, efficient compression and decompression of the data is vital to any sort of analysis. There are different methods to tackle data compression, which is frequently but not necessarily reliant on the analysis goals. General compression algorithms, such as Lempel-Ziv parsing (Ziv and Lempel, 1977Ziv J. Lempel A. A universal algorithm for sequential data compression.IEEE Trans. Inf. Theory. 1977; 23: 337-343Crossref Scopus (3610) Google Scholar), BWT (Burrows and Wheeler, 1994Burrows, M. and Wheeler, D.J. (1994). A block sorting lossless data compression algorithm, Technical Report 124, Digital Equipment Corporation, https://www.hpl.hp.com/techreports/Compaq-DEC/SRC-RR-124.pdf.Google Scholar), and Huffman encoding (Turnbull et al., 2018Turnbull C. Scott R.H. Thomas E. Jones L. Murugaesu N. Pretty F.B. Halai D. Baple E. Craig C. Hamblin A. et al.The 100,000 Genomes Project: bringing whole genome sequencing to the NHS.Br. Med. J. 2018; 361: k1687Crossref PubMed Scopus (217) Google Scholar), aim to transform the input file(s) into a representation that requires fewer bits than the original file(s). Conversely, decompression aims to recover the original files from the compressed format. Sequence data offers unique opportunities for significant compression it contains high of A number of methods that utilize novel data to this to efficient compression and decompression have been Sequence and de Bruijn graph are of such data that have been continuously upon in the past years. Sequence were first proposed by and B. C. of of short-read sequencing Biotechnol. 2016; Scopus Google Scholar) as a to efficiently index sequence data in a that the of et al., J. Zhang E. E. C. J. RNA-seq at 2018; PubMed Scopus Google Scholar), and B. C. of large sequencing using sequence 2018; PubMed Scopus Google Scholar), and et al., and P. sequence of the in Scholar) improve upon this recent original described a representation and P. representation of sequence 2019; Scholar) that requires and space to the that there remains opportunity for further to existing de Bruijn which were proposed for genome assembly, have been used to index all from a set of sequence reads. there have been in the representation of de Bruijn graphs et al., A. R. T. C. de Bruijn PubMed Scopus Google et al., and R. scalable and representation of information de Bruijn graph of the in et al., and A. for genome graph of the in et al., and R. a de Bruijn graph of the Workshop of in et al., and C. the de Bruijn graph. of and et al., H. A. M. G. a data for compression of in de Bruijn et al., P. F. M.A. M. R. R. a and 2018; Google Scholar), we still to on existing For example, the representation of Marchet et al., C. M. Limasset A. de Bruijn graphs with 2019; was able to index all k-mers from the human genome in space and and all k-mers from the genome the size of the human in space and within 10 This area of using de Bruijn graphs for and k-mers still has Last, there is still significant in to and large and presented a parallel algorithm for fast decompression of files that to compressed DNA sequence data in the format. of their method show that it is an of than and than a highly optimized sequential at 2019. although computational methods for alignment, assembly, and variant detection have over the past significant challenges genome assembly using long reads and detection of repeat variants using high-throughput sequencing. there is a need for new and data to data generated from multiple genomes and using sequencing technologies. In long-read sequencing technologies such as Pacific Biosciences SMRT and 10X Genomics linked-read sequencing are and we to see the development of new methods that these technologies in the near future. Last, the not have been a success without the of the of the and We to to a was by the and by the