# John R. Lewis High School

John R. Lewis High School is a public high school in Springfield, Virginia. It is a part of Fairfax County Public Schools (FCPS) and opened in 1958. The school was originally named Robert E. Lee High School (Lee High School) after Robert E. Lee, the American and Confederate general, but starting at the beginning of the 2020–2021 school year it was renamed John R. Lewis High School after John Lewis, the recently deceased politician and civil rights leader. The school name changes began shortly after the vote was announced. Lewis High School athletic teams are known as the Lancers.

History

At the time the school opened, the Fairfax County school board was opposing racial integration of its schools, and the name reflected the school board's sentiments.

This school is located on Franconia Road across the street of Springfield Town Center, on the border of Franconia and Springfield. The area had a Springfield address and was in the Franconia district of Virginia.

During a meeting on February 4, 1958, a local historical group suggested a compromise. The Upper Pohick Community League submitted a letter proposing that the school board adopt a policy of naming Fairfax County schools after prominent Virginians instead of by place names and that the Franconia High School be renamed something like "Fitzhugh, Lee, etc."

Fitzhugh Lee was suggested because he was born at the Clermont estate. Clermont Elementary School is about 4 miles away, in Alexandria. 

During a meeting on May 6, 1958, Mr. Solomon made a motion that all future new high schools in Fairfax County be named for some prominent American, now deceased.  Mr. Solomon qualified it by stating that the "Franconia H.S." is not to be included in this motion, just those under construction, or proposed. Therefore, a place name was needed for this school. Both communities were in the Lee district of Virginia and a compromise was reached on a place name.
 
Mr. Woodson said he was "surprised and disappointed that we have this type of controversy among adults. I don't want the children coming to this school saying I'm from Springfield ... I'm from Franconia ... let's fight. Gangs tend to develop in communities where there is controversy." School Board member Mr. Davis said that "He'd rather name a school Podunk then get into the battle like was over Lee High school." The name J.E.B. Stuart was chosen because he had his headquarters on Munson Hill, the site of the school.

The naming of high schools in order was Lee (for the Lee district, May 1958), J.E.B. Stuart and James Madison (same meeting, on Oct 7, 1958). Thomas Edison, George Marshall, and W.T. Woodson followed in 1960, then Thomas Jefferson in 1962. In addition, nine intermediate schools were named by the same school board in May 1959. Among those school names were John G. Whittier and Henry Thoreau. Fifteen schools were named and only one was for a Confederate general. In 1963, Lee was renamed at the request of the SPTA. That was six years later.

Regarding Fairfax County's reaction to Brown: It was not Fairfax County's choice either before or after 1954.  Fairfax County Schools, like most southern schools, were under de jure segregation.  After the Brown v. Board of Education decision, Daniel Duke, who authored Education Empire wrote: "Whether local school systems such as Fairfax County left to their own, would have moved forward to implement desegregation in the late '50s will never be known. Richmond removed any possibility of local option." it was recognized in court cases that it was the state who was running the show, not the county. They didn't have a choice. In the Virginia General Assembly:  delegates from Northern Virginia openly opposed the Stanley Plans as well as calls for even more radical legislation. Virginia's 10th district was the only congressional district to vote against the Gray Plan.

Following a multi-year campaign by two African-American female teenage students to change the school's name, on June 23, 2020, the school board unanimously voted to rename the school. On July 23, 2020, the Fairfax County School Board announced that the school would be renamed to John R. Lewis High School, after John Lewis, the recently deceased politician and civil rights leader. The name change became effective starting the 2020–2021 school year.

Demographics
In the 2016–2017 school year, Lewis High School's total enrollment was 2,132, with a student body composed of 36.84% Hispanic, 25.41% Asian, 20.07% White, 14.10% Black, and 3.58% other.

Administration 

Lewis High School has served the Springfield community since it opened in 1958. Like many schools in Fairfax County, Lewis reflects the increasing diversity of its student body. Student families have origins in 42 countries (mostly Latin American) and speak more than 34 languages.

The integration of technology into the instructional program continues to be a major initiative.  The labs are equipped with computers, digital cameras, and scanners for computer graphics and photography classes, and a fully computerized CAD lab is available for technical drawing and engineering classes.

Deirdre Lavery was principal from 2014 to 2019. Alfonso Smith was appointed as principal in January 2020.

Career Center

Lewis High School has a College and Career Center inside the school.  It is currently run by Carla McIlnay-Shaw. Its goal is to provide students with college planning services through the use of computer software, videos, catalogs, and visits by college representatives from state and national colleges and universities. Career planning, military options, scholarship, and financial aid information are also available. Throughout the year, many special programs are presented for both parents and students.

International Baccalaureate program
The International Baccalaureate (IB) Program is open to all 11th- and 12th-grade students at Lewis High School and presents a "varied and rigorous" program of studies. IB is a comprehensive, integrated program that places as much value on the process of knowledge (teaching the student to analyze and apply knowledge) as the product (preparing the student for the content and assessments). IB courses present options for students to pursue a mixture of major interests (higher-level courses) and less major interests (standard level courses).

With the IB program offered at Lewis High School, students are provided with an internationally recognized educational program which purports to provide a more rigorous and college-preparatory education. Furthermore, an advantage of taking IB courses in Lewis High School is that students get a chance to receive college credit (although the more common Advanced Placement, or AP, program can also provide college credit.) Getting college credit depends on the score the student gets on their IB exam, usually a 6 or 7, and the guidelines for IB transfer credit the college or university the student chooses to attend has (the same is true of AP classes and exams.)

Student activities

Honor societies

Students are selected for membership through an application process and sometimes interviews are conducted. Candidates must meet the chapter's requirement for scholarship, service, leadership, and character in order to be selected for membership. Continued participation in service projects is required to retain membership. Members must also maintain the chapter's required cumulative GPA and have a good understanding of the language, or specialty.

Student government

The Student Government Association consists of elected and selected students who represent the entire student body. The objectives of the SGA are to promote school spirit, initiative and unity among the different classes and students, coordinate school activities and to provide a means of communication among administration, faculty, and students. The SGA sponsors Homecoming Dance, Homecoming Elections, Powder Puff Game, Chili Cook-Off, Homecoming Parade, Family Feud, The Senior vs. Faculty Basketball Game, Blizzard Blast, Mr. and Ms. Irresistible, International Night, three pep rallies (Fall, Winter, Spring), class elections and balloting among many other school activities.

Publications

The Lance is Lewis High School's monthly newspaper. A student-run newspaper with a staff of approximately 20, The Lance covers news and events in the school, community, and nation. The Lance won Trophy Class, the highest honor bestowed by the Virginia High School League (VHSL), in 2003–2004 and 2005–2006. 

The Shield, Lewis's yearbook, serves as an informational record, memory and historical reference for the students and faculty as well as the Lewis High School's community at-large. The Shield covers academics, sports, student activities and student accomplishments with fairness and accuracy. The content is decided upon by the student staff members enrolled in Photojournalism 1, 2, and 3. Recruiting to become part of the staff typically takes place in early Februar