# 3:10 to Yuma (2007 film)

3:10 to Yuma is a 2007 American western action drama film directed by James Mangold and produced by Cathy Konrad, starring Russell Crowe and Christian Bale in the lead roles with supporting performances by Peter Fonda, Gretchen Mol, Ben Foster, Dallas Roberts, Alan Tudyk, Vinessa Shaw, and Logan Lerman. It is about a drought-impoverished rancher (Bale) who takes on the dangerous job of taking a notorious outlaw (Crowe) to justice. It is the second adaptation of Elmore Leonard's 1953 short story "Three-Ten to Yuma", after the 1957 film of the same name. Filming took place in various locations in New Mexico. 3:10 to Yuma opened September 7, 2007, in the United States and received positive reviews from critics. It grossed $71 million worldwide on the budget of $48–55 million.

Plot
In 1884 Arizona, Dan Evans is a poor rancher and Civil War veteran who owes money to the wealthy Glen Hollander. One night, Hollander's men burn down his barn and scatter his cattle as a  warning to pay his debts. The next morning Evans and his two sons are searching for their lost herd when they stumble upon Ben Wade and his gang robbing an armored stagecoach staffed by Pinkertons.  Wade sees Evans and his two sons watching from the hills and decides that they aren't a threat to his gang, so Wade takes their horses, promising to leave  them tied up "on the road to Bisbee", so that Evans can recover them, but won't be able to give warning immediately. After Wade's gang departs, Evans rescues the lone surviving coach guard, Byron McElroy, left alive but severely wounded.

Wade and his gang ride to Bisbee to drink at the local saloon and divide up the loot.  The gang departs but Wade chooses to stay behind to enjoy the company of the barmaid. Evans brings McElroy to veterinarian/lawman Doc Potter, then tries in vain to negotiate his debt with Hollander.  Evans then finds Wade emerging from an upstairs room in the saloon and coaxes a few dollars from Wade over the trouble he caused Evans.  As the two talk, lawmen surround the saloon and arrest Wade.

Grayson Butterfield, the railroad's representative, hires a posse consisting of McElroy, Potter, Tucker (one of Hollander's men), and Evans to take Wade to Contention, where Wade is to be put on the 3:10 afternoon train to Yuma Territorial Prison. Evans asks for $200 () to deliver Wade, which Butterfield agrees to. The group meets at Evans's ranch, where McElroy arranges for a decoy wagon to distract Wade's gang.

During the journey, both Tucker and McElroy provoke Wade; he stabs Tucker to death with a stolen fork and throws McElroy off a cliff. Wade attempts to escape but is stopped when Evans's son William appears.  The group is ambushed by Apaches, allowing Wade to use the confusion to flee into a Chinese laborer construction camp.  The foreman of the camp captures Wade and the posse arrives to collect him, but the foreman, holding an old grudge against the outlaw, wants to kill Wade.  A gunfight breaks out between the two groups, killing Potter while the rest escape with Wade.  They arrive in Contention hours before the train's departure time and check into a hotel, where several local marshals join them.

Wade's gang members ambush the decoy wagon and kill everyone after finding out that Wade is in Contention.  The gang, now led by Charlie Prince,  offers a $200 cash reward to anyone who kills one of Wade's captors. Numerous men volunteer, causing the town's marshals to desert immediately; Wade's men kill them when they try to surrender. Butterfield resigns as well, but agrees to keep William safe at Evans's behest. Evans agrees to put Wade on the prison train if Butterfield pays him $1000, escorts his son safely home, grants his farm access to river water, and gets Hollander to leave his family alone.

Evans escorts Wade out of the hotel, and the two make their way across town, evading continuous gunfire from the gang and the townsmen. Wade surprises Evans and nearly strangles him, but relents when Evans reveals that delivering Wade to the train is not only for his family but his honor as well. Wade then admits he has already been to Yuma Prison and escaped twice, and agrees to board the train, allowing Evans's contract to be fulfilled and redeeming Evans to his sons.

Wade helps Evans evade his gang and finally boards the train, congratulating Evans on his efforts. Charlie appears and shoots Evans despite Wade's order to stop. Wade steps off the train, comforting Evans in his final moments. When Charlie returns Wade's gun belt, he abruptly executes Charlie along with the rest of his gang. William appears and draws his gun on Wade but does not kill him, instead turning to his dying father. Wade boards the train and politely surrenders his weapon. Evans dies as William tells him he accomplished his mission and got the money. Butterfield watches the train depart with Wade on it. As the train disappears around a bend, Wade whistles, and his faithful horse pricks up his ears and gallops after the train, indicating that Wade is already planning his next escape.

Cast

 Russell Crowe as Ben Wade, the ruthless leader of a gang of outlaws
 Christian Bale as Dan Evans, a one-legged war veteran turned rancher
 Logan Lerman as William Evans, Dan's eldest son, who dreams of adventure
 Dallas Roberts as Grayson Butterfield, an agent of the Southern Pacific Railroad
 Ben Foster as Charlie Prince, Ben's ruthless right-hand
 Peter Fonda as Byron McElroy, an elderly bounty hunter working for the railroad who has history with  Wade
 Vinessa Shaw as Emma Nelson
 Alan Tudyk as Doc Potter, a veterinarian and volunteer lawman
 Gretchen Mol as Alice Evans, Dan's wife
 Lennie Loftin as Glen Hollander, Dan's creditor
 Johnny Witworth as Darden
 Kevin Durand as Tucker, a sadistic ranch hand employed by Glen Hollander
 Luke Wilson as Zeke

Production
In June 2003, Columbia Pictures announced a negotiation with Mangold to helm a remake of the 1957 Western film 3:10 to Yuma, based on a script written by Michael Brandt and Derek Haas.  After being apart from the project for several years, Mangold resumed his role as director in February 2006. Production was slated to begin in summer 2006.  In the same month, Tom Cruise expressed an interest in starring as the villain in the film. Eric Bana also briefly sought a role in the film.

In summer 2006, Columbia placed the film in turnaround, and the project was acquired by Relativity Media. Crowe and Bale were cast as the main characters, and Relativity began seeking a distributor for the film.  By September, Lions Gate Entertainment signed on to distribute the film.  Later in the month, Peter Fonda, Gretchen Mol, Dallas Roberts, Ben Foster, and Vinessa Shaw were cast. Filming was slated to begin on October 23, 2006, in New Mexico.  On the first day of filming, a rider and his horse were seriously injured in a scene when the horse ran directly into a camera-carrying vehicle instead of veering off as planned. The rider was hospitalized, and the horse had to be euthanized on the set. The animal's death prompted an investigation from the American Humane Association.  By November, the AHA concluded its investigation, finding that the horse did not respond accordingly due to having received a dual training approach and the rider not being familiar with the mount. The organization recommended no charges against the producers.  Principal photography took place in and around Santa Fe, Abiquiú, and Galisteo.  The Bonanza Creek Ranch represented the film's town of Bisbee as a "kinder, gentler frontier town" while Galisteo was set up to be Contention (now a ghost town), a "much rougher, bawdier, kind of sin city".  Others locations were the scenic Diablo Canyon and the Gilman Tunnels () along New Mexico State Road 485. Filming concluded on January 20, 2007.

After filming concluded, the owners of the Cerro Pelon Ranch petitioned to keep a $2 million expansion to the movie set on their property, which was supposed to be dismantled within 90 days. The set of 3:10 to Yuma made up 75% of the overall sets on the ranch.  The county's development review committee granted their request, which enabled the possibility of future revenue generation.

Release
3:10 to Yuma was originally slated for an October 5, 2007 release, but Lionsgate moved the film's release a month earlier to September 7, 2007, to beat competing Western films The Assassination of Jesse James by the Coward Robert Ford and No Country for Old Men. As a result of the move, the studio was not able to use the Toronto International Film Festival as a platform for the film's release, but it was released before a cluster of films similarly vying for awards. According to Lionsgate president Tom Ortenberg, "In what is shaping up to be a very impressive and crowded field of upscale commercial motion pictures this fall, we wanted to be one of the first ones out, so that everything else will be measured against us." The earlier theatrical run positioned it