# Nodocephalosaurus

Nodocephalosaurus (meaning "knob headed lizard") is a monospecific genus of ankylosaurid dinosaur from New Mexico that lived during the Late Cretaceous (late Campanian to early Maastrichtian stage, 73.49 to 73.04 Ma) in what is now the De-na-zin member of the Kirtland Formation. The type and only species, Nodocephalosaurus kirtlandensis, is known only from a partial skull. It was named in 1999 by Robert M. Sullivan. Nodocephalosaurus has an estimated length of 4.5 metres (15 feet) and weight of 1.5 tonnes (3,306 lbs). It is closely related and shares similar cranial anatomy to Akainacephalus.

Discovery and naming

In 1995, a partial skull of an ankylosaur was discovered weathering out of a grey mudstone a few hundred metres west of a new Parasaurolophus site in the De-na-zin member of the Kirtland Formation, New Mexico. Robert M. Sullivan and Thomas E. Williamson left the partial skull in the field due to the apparent fragmentary nature of the skull and time constraints. A year later, the skull was obtained from the site by Sullivan with the help of Kesler Randall. The specimen was subsequently described in 1999 by Robert M. Sullivan. The holotype specimen, SMP VP-900 , consists of an incomplete skull and associated cranial fragments. The holotype specimen is currently housed at the State Museum of Pennsylvania, Harrisburg. 

The generic name, Nodocepahlosaurus, is derived from the Latin word "nodus" (knob or swelling ) and the Greek words "kephale" (head) and "sauros" (lizard), in reference to the many bulbous osteoderms fused to the top of the skull. The specific name, kirtlandensis, refers to the Kirtland Formation, the formation from which the holotype came.

In 2000, Tracy Ford assigned NMMNH P-20880, a single pup-tent scute with a hollowed-out base, as a potential specimen of Nodocephalosaurus. In 2006, Robert M. Sullivan and Denver W. Fowler referred four additional specimens: SMPVP-1957, two cranial osteoderms; SMP VP-1870, a left cervical spine; SMP VP-1149, the seventh or eighth caudal vertebrae; and SMP VP-1743, the first caudal vertebra. The specimens were referred to Nodocephalosaurus as, at the time, it was the only named ankylosaurid from the Kirtland Formation. In 2011, Michael Burns and Robert M. Sullivan referred three more additional specimens: SMP VP-1632, an incomplete minor tail club plate; SMP VP- 1646, an incomplete tail club that consists of an incomplete major plate and minor plate; and SMP VP2074, a nearly complete left plate, partial right plate and numerous miscellaneous tail club fragments. These three additional specimens were referred to the genus based on the similar surface texture to the holotype specimen. However, Arbour & Currie (2015) assigned all referred specimens, with the exception of SMPVP-1957, to Ankylosauridae indet. due to the discovery of Ahshislepelta in the Hunter Wash Member, and Ziapelta from the De-na-zin Member.

Description

Size and distinguishing traits
In 2016, Gregory S. Paul gave Nodocephalosaurus an estimated length of 4.5 metres (15 feet) and a weight of 1.5 tonnes (3,306 lbs).

Sullivan (1999) originally diagnosed Nodocephalosaurus based on the presence of semi-inflated to bulbous polygonal osteoderms fused to the nasal, frontal and supraorbital regions of the skull, a prominent quadratojugal horn that is directed anteroventrally, and a prominent post-maxillary/lacrimal osteoderm. However, Arbour & Currie (2015) later diagnosed Nodocephalosaurus based on the presence of a bulbous, ridge-like loreal caputegulum, a quadratojugal horn with an anteriorly positioned apex, conical frontonasal caputegulae with circular bases, lacks V-shaped upraised area of frontals, and a lacrimal caputegulum that is smaller, more square than in Ankylosaurus, Anodontosaurus, Euoplocephalus.

Cranium
 
The skull of Nodocephalosaurus is incomplete, partially crushed and consists mostly of the left half. The skull has an estimated length of 39 cm from the left nasal to the rear of the skull. The snout is directed anteroventrally and the skull is highly arched in profile. The skull is fractured with most of the breaks occurring along cranial sutures and the premaxilla is not preserved. Numerous disarticulated fragments that are presumably from the right side were recovered. The basicranium is deformed on the dorsal region due to post-mortem crushing and cementation of cranial elements, while the ventral region is better preserved. The basioccipital and basisphenoid are partially fused and are compressed towards the left side of the skull. The right exoccipital is not preserved, while the left exoccipital is lodged between the left side of the squamosal region, skull roof, basioccipital, and basisphenoid. The occipital condyle is large, ovoid in shape, and both portions of the condyle are fused. The supraoccipital cannot be distinguished as it is presumably part of a large mass of bone that lies between the skull roof and the occipital condyle. The parasphenoid is obscured by a parasagittal bony mass that represents part of the skull roof and associated osteoderms of the frontal region. Due to the overlying osteoderms that are fused to the skull roof, the frontals are not visible in dorsal view. The jugal has a smooth inner surface that differs from the rugose outer surface, which is a characteristic of osteodermal sculpturing. The lacrimal is mostly obscured by osteoderms and rises up within the inner lateral orbital region. The maxilla, in left lateral aspect, forms a distinct arc. The end of the maxilla ends in a "foot" that has a flattened ovoid surface. Both above and behind the "foot" lies an irregular sub-ovoid osteoderm. An ascending maxillary process forms the internal wall of the external naris. The maxilla preserves only 19 alveoli, although no teeth are preserved. The posterior extent of the nasal cannot be described precisely due to the osteodermal covering. The anterior part has large dermal ossifications and covers most of the nasal. A separate dermal ossification is visible on the left lateral side of the posterior part. The left nasal terminates in a "foot" that tapers ventrally to a V-shape. The palatine is bordered medially by the vomer and behind the palatine lies a matrix-filled area that corresponds to the palatal foramen of Pinacosaurus. The right palatine has a ventral surface that is lightly pitted, with a rugose texture on the posteromedial part. The upper side of the parietals are covered with a thin osteodermal covering and a large plate-like osteoderm occupies the front part of the parietal table which contacts the posterior-most lateral frontal osteoderm. 

A rugose osteoderm is present in the posterior region of the parietals where the squamosal horn attaches to the end dorsolateral side of the skull. Both pterygoids are incomplete and a fracture occurs near the front where the pterygoids join the basicranium. The front half of the anterior wings of the left pterygoid is partly preserved, while the front half of the anterior wings of the left pterygoid is missing. The quadrate is incomplete and has a distinct ridge along the front surface. The quadratojugal bears an osteodermal covering on its side projecting end. The upper surface of the quadratojugal has an upper surface that is broad and relatively smooth in lateral view, with some irregular pitting. The lower portion of the anterodorsal-most part of the quadratojugal has a sub-triangular shape. The osteodermal covering of the medial side is confined to the lower edge of the horn. Foramina are present and are irregularly spaced along the upper part of the osteodermal covering. Sullivan (1999) originally reconstructed the quadratojugal horn as pointing ventrally. However, Arbour & Currie (2015) suggested a new interpretation where the quadratojugal horn is rotated clockwise, nearly completes the ventral border of the orbit, but results in a gap between the quadratojugal and squamosal. The squamosal bone is covered in an osteodermal covering and can only be inferred. The squamosal horn is broken off at its base from the squamosal region of the skull. Due to the distortion of the posterior part of the skull, the articulation of the squamosal horn is uncertain. The squamosal horns arches towards the back, terminating in a rounded point. The underside surface of the horn is broader than the dorsal surface and is sub-triangular in cross section, which is somewhat laterally compared to that of Scolosaurus or Oohkotokia. The supraorbitals are covered in osteoderms that lie dorsoanteriorly to the orbit as seen in Pinacosaurus. The osteoderms of the external surface are characterised by the presence of rugose ornamentation consisting of pits and poorly defined ridges.
 
The osteoderms of the cranium are similar to those seen on Saichania and Tarchia in their arrangement and morphology. The skull roof preserves frontonasal osteoderms. Two rows of osteoderms extend across the left frontal, although the lateral row is not