# Institute of Internal Auditors

The Institute of Internal Auditors (IIA) is an international professional association. The IIA provides educational conferences and develops standards, guidance, and certifications for the internal audit profession.

History 
Established in 1941, the IIA serves more than 230,000 members from nearly 200 countries and territories. The IIA's global headquarters are in Lake Mary, FL, United States. Anthony Pugliese is the President and CEO of the organization.

Professional certification 
The Certified Internal Auditor (CIA)  is the primary professional designation offered by The IIA. The CIA certification is a globally recognized designation by which internal auditors demonstrate their competency and professionalism in the internal audit field.

In order to become a CIA, candidates must pass all three parts of the CIA exam as well as meet certain educational and professional experience requirements stipulated by The IIA. The IIA also offers the CIA certification through a one-part exam, called the CIA Challenge Exam, for those who meet specific criteria.

CIAs are required to earn continuing education credit hours to renew their certifications annually.

Other certifications and certificates 
The IIA also offers the following programs:
 Internal Audit Practitioner (IAP) 
 Certification in Risk Management Assurance (CRMA) 
 
The IIA previously offered other programs , including:
 Certification in Control Self-Assessment (CCSA) 
 Certified Government Auditing Professional (CGAP) 
 Certified Financial Services Auditor (CFSA) 
 Qualification in Internal Audit Leadership (QIAL) 
 
Below demonstrates the Number of CIA Holders by Region as of December 31, 2022.

Professional standards 
Global Internal Audit Standards set forth essential requirements and recommendations for the professional practice of internal auditing globally. The Standards apply to any individual or function that provides internal audit services; for organizations that vary in purpose, size, complexity, and structure; and by persons within or outside the organization. The Standards apply whether internal auditors are employees of the organization, contracted with an external service provider, or a combination of both.

All internal auditors are accountable for conforming with the principles and standards relevant to performing their job responsibilities. Chief audit executives are additionally accountable for the internal audit function’s overall conformance with the Standards.

The development and implementation of a structure of fundamental professional standards offers internal audit practitioners a basic framework on which to build an internal audit function that serves their individual organizations. The structure The IIA has developed over time is called the International Professional Practices Framework® and serves the needs of internal auditors around the world in any sector, industry, or profession.

To help internal auditors implement these professional practice standards, The IIA produces authoritative guidance developed with the assistance of professional internal auditors with diverse, global expertise. Guidance is created through a rigorous process to assure its applicability to a wide range of internal audit functions around the world.

IIA members can download guidance titles from The IIA’s website in a variety of subjects or areas of specialization, such as public sector, financial services, and information technology (IT), as well as general guidance offering best practices and/or internal audit strategies.

Growing with the profession
In 2023, The IIA introduced the newly titled Global Internal Audit Standards as a revamp of the International Standards for the Professional Practice of Internal Auditing designed to ensure that the profession and its practitioners a maintain relevance in an evolving global landscape. Stakeholders from around the world provided comments on the proposed update, which will be available in over 20 languages, with the finalized version released in 2024, with an effective date 12 months after the release date.

Other initiatives

Internal Audit Foundation
The Internal Audit Foundation a 501(c)(3) not-for-profit entity, is an essential global resource for advancing the internal audit profession. Foundation-funded research provides internal audit practitioners and their stakeholders insight into emerging topics and promotes and advances the value of the internal audit profession globally. Through its Academic Fund, the Foundation supports the profession's future by providing grants to students and educators participating in The Institute of Internal Auditor's Internal Auditing
Education Partnership Program. For more information, visit www.theiia.org/Foundation.

Internal Audit: Vision 2035 
The Internal Audit Foundation is undertaking the initiative: "Internal Audit: Vision 2035 - Creating Our Future Together." This project is designed to identify what the internal audit profession will look like in 2035, how the IIA can elevate the value of internal audit during that time, and what steps must be taken to make that future a reality. This project will help the IIA prepare for the future by engaging a global group of experts, including volunteer leaders, representatives from the International Internal Audit Standards Board, The IIA’s Professional Certifications Board, the Internal Audit Foundation’s Board of Trustees and Committee of Research and Education Advisors, and representatives from regional bodies and IIA institutes.

See also
 Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission
 External audit, External auditor, Certified Public Accountant, and AICPA
 Internal Audit, Director of audit, Comptroller General, Inspector General
 Internal Control, Controller
 List of international professional associations

References

External links
The Institute of Internal Auditors (IIA) - and The IIA's Code of Ethics
Internal Audit Foundation
New York State Internal Control Association
Essays on Common Sense Management regarding Internal Control
Internal Audit Training Courses across EMEA
The Chartered Institute of Internal Auditors
Internal Audit: Vision 2035

Internal audit
Professional accounting bodies
Auditing in the United States
Organizations established in 1941
1941 establishments in the United States