# Elam School of Fine Arts

The Elam School of Fine Arts, founded by John Edward Elam, is part of the Faculty of Creative Arts and Industries at the University of Auckland. It offered the first  Bachelor of Fine Arts programme in New Zealand starting in 1967. Students study degrees in fine art, across three buildings, the Mondrian building, Building 431 (or the "Main" fine arts building), and Elam B, which includes the studios for postgraduate and doctoral students on Princes Street, in central Auckland, New Zealand.

History

The school was founded from a bequest on the death of Dr. John Edward Elam in 1888 of ten thousand pounds. His will stated 'in the selection or admission of pupils those shall be preferred who, from poverty or circumstances, are unable at their own charge to obtain for themselves the advantages furnished by the school.'  Edward William Payton was the first director, retiring in 1924 after 35 years. It opened in 1890 and for the first 60 years ran full and part-time instruction in art to both adults and children. The first premises of the school was in 'rooms located under the bell tower of what is now the Auckland City Art Gallery'. (History - Elam School of Arts)Archie Fisher was appointed principal in 1924 and was instrumental in the school's inclusion within the University of Auckland in 1950. A fire in 1949, which destroyed the school and library, was the catalyst, as well as the loss of pre-1950 administrative records, that resulted in joining with the University.The Bachelor of Fine Arts programme was established in 1967 and was the first fine arts bachelor degree in the country. (History - Elam School of Arts)In 1994  the George Fraser Gallery started to be administered by Elam School of Fine Arts, and it is mainly an exhibition space for their students. The gallery was before managed by the Sargeson Trust, named after Frank Sargeson. It is located in the downstairs premises of a historic stables in Princes St, Auckland. 

The Fine Arts Library housed New Zealand's largest collection of specialist monographs, and had an extensive collection of art books, which is believed to be the largest in New Zealand. In 2018 students and staff protested at Auckland University's Fine Arts Library as its proposed closure.

Notable staff and alumni

Notable alumni include:

 Gretchen Albrecht 
 Rita Angus 
 George Baloghy
 Don Binney 
 Peter Brown
 Niki Caro
 Stella Corkery
 Bessie Christie
 Noel Crombie 
 Melvin Day
 Lynley Dodd 
 Selina Foote
 Ayesha Green
 Jean Horsley
 Bridie Lonie
 Kees Meeuws
 Ellen von Meyern
 Jan Nigro
 Michael Parekowhai
 Ian Scott
 Vida Steinert
 Chad Taylor (writer)
 Lois White
 Natalie Couch

Notable staff include:

 Art historian Michael Dunn who was head of the school from 1994 to 2006.
 John Francis Kavanagh
 John Weeks

References

External links 
Official website
 Elam School of Fine Art, An Encyclopaedia of New Zealand, 1966

Faculties of the University of Auckland
Educational institutions established in 1890
Art schools in New Zealand
1890 establishments in New Zealand