# Sunfire (series)

Sunfire is a series of young adult historical romance novels published by Scholastic Books in the 1980s.  They are currently out of print.

Background
The books were written by a group of authors, including Vivian Schurfranz (9), Jane Claypool Miner (6), Candice F. Ransom (6), Mary Francis Shura (6), Jeffie Ross Gordon (2), and Willo Davis Roberts (3).

Structure of the novels
The Sunfire books contained two themes:  history and romance.  Each book featured a teenage girl who experienced a particular period or event in American history.  At the same time, with very few exceptions, the girl was torn between two potential lovers.  The girl was typically ahead of her time in ideas and actions and the suitor she almost always chose was the one who approved of or accepted her actions. The cover art always featured the main character flanked by her two potential lovers, along with scenes from the historical event or period that was the setting for the book.

Titles and summaries
Titles in the Sunfire series listed in order of publication: (Descriptions taken from the back covers of the books)

(#1) Amanda by Candice F. Ransom  
A new land, a new love

With only a silk dress to protect her from the blazing frontier sun, Amanda fears she will die on the Oregon Trail. As the memories of Boston, the nightly balls, and Joseph fade, the hardships of life on the wagon train fill her days. Changing from a spoiled city girl to a strong young woman, Amanda finds drought and death, beauty and joy, and a love that will last forever.

Set on the Oregon Trail.

(#2) Susannah by Candice F. Ransom    
The South that raised her was at war, while Susannah's own battle raged in her heart...

Susannah Dellinger had lived her sixteen years as a proper Virginia girl – obedient, dreaming of marriage, leaving the decisions to the men. But when her brother and fiancé are called on to defend the South, Susannah take the first daring steps of rebellion against the old rules. She must fight for her own life, for her family, and for the secret love born in the flames of war.

Set during the American Civil War.

(#3) Elizabeth by Willo Davis Roberts  
Did she dare follow her heart?

When someone points an accusing finger and cries "Witch!" Elizabeth faces a choice - between a lie that could doom a friend, and the truth that would threaten her own life. The truth could also ruin wealthy Troy's love for Elizabeth, and reveal her own attraction to a stranger - a wild and rootless boy who shares her fear and courage.

Set during the Salem Witch Trials.

(#4) Danielle by Vivian Schurfranz 
Twice she'd lost her heart, but who was her life-long love?

It is 1814 when New Orleans beauty Danielle Verlain helps Geoffrey, a young pirate, escape from her family's plantation and the authorities. Immediately she is captivated by his dashing good looks and dangerous lifestyle. While her fiancé, Paul, is both handsome and sweet, Danielle yearns for something more. Her change comes when the pirates kidnap her and hold her for ransom. Danielle comes face to face with Geoffrey again. A love stirs inside her, and the spirited Danielle must decide between a comfortable life with Paul or an adventure as a pirate queen!

Set during the War of 1812 and featuring an appearance by infamous pirate Jean Lafitte.

(#5) Joanna by Jane Claypool Miner   
Would she have to defy everything - even love?

From her simple farm life in Vermont, Joanna bravely joins the growing number of girls working in the textile mills in 1836. With her she carries the painful memory of Jed, a young man who has left her, loving the sea more than her loves her.In the Lowell, Massachusetts mill Joanna is horrified to find the work both grueling and dangerous. Even a romance with the mill owner's roguish nephew, Theo, can’t keep the daily work from becoming terrifying drudgery. To strike with the other mill women seems Joanna's only way out of a job that threatens her very existence. But defying the mill owners will certainly mean losing her job and Theo. And if Jed ever returns from the sea, will he recognize – could he love – the new Joanna?

Set in the Lowell, Massachusetts textile mills.

(#6) Jessica by Mary Francis Shura    
One man would love her, one man would lose her.

Jessica had lived all her life on the flat Kansas prairie. It was there, the year she turned sixteen, that Jessica fell in love. The young Indian brave, Wheeling Hawk, saved her from a flood, and Jessica's heart was lost. But even the most spirited young woman would have to defy her family and home for so distant a love. And Jessica couldn’t see in Will Reynold's eyes, where once there was anger, there now shone a love of his own.

Set in 1873 Kansas.

(#7) Caroline by Willo Davis Roberts    
If only men and boys were going to California, then Caroline would become - a boy.

Caroline just wants the same adventures her brothers have. But they're headed West to California to find gold, and that's no place for a girl to be.
So Caroline takes matters - and scissors - into her own hands. By cutting her hair and donning the clothes of a gold-hungry boy, Caroline goes West. One of the young men travelling with her is handsome Dan Riddle, who treats her the way he would any young boy. But underneath the clothes of the boy pounds the heart of a young woman, and while Caroline thinks her quest is for adventure, she finds that it is for love.

Set during the California Gold Rush.

(#8) Kathleen by Candice F. Ransom   
There were times she wished she'd never come to America

Pretty, spirited Kathleen O'Connor arrives in Boston on a "coffin" ship from Ireland. She has escaped the devastating famine, but her boyfriend died at home and her parents did not survive the voyage to America. Still the promise of a new life gives her hope. Patrick, a friend from the ship, finds a job for her as a maid with the wealthy Thornley family.  They remind Kathleen of the landowners in Ireland who forced them from her home. She wants to despise them, but she cannot hate David Thornley, who is tender and handsome, and obviously attracted to her. Her secret love for David could force Kathleen to go back to Ireland or make her dreams for a new life in America come true.

Set during the Great Famine and Irish immigration to the USA.

(#9) Marilee by Mary Francis Shura  
From the calm of England to the wilds of the new colony, Marilee is torn between three loves...

Until her father dies, Marilee lives a peaceful life in England. Suddenly she must cross the ocean to Jamestown, Virginia, to join her brother and his new wife. She is little prepared for the jealous resentment of her sister-in-law, the constant threat of Indian attacks, or so many suitors. Ship's officer Phillip Soames is kind and attentive but often at sea. Michael Braden is dashing but mysterious; and Timothy Reeves, indentured servant to her brother, is insolent but charming. Thrust on her own in this forbidding land, Marilee must follow her heart to find the one she truly loves.

Set in the Jamestown Colony.

(#10) Laura by Vivian Schurfranz  
Would she abandon her beliefs for love?

While men are fighting oversears in World War I, lovely Laura Mitchell is caught up in the struggle for women's rights in the Washington, D.C. of 1918. Dismayed by her willingness to go to jail for her beliefs, Laura's mother and sister encourage her to pay more attention to her suitors. Laura only has eyes for her neighbor, Joe Menotti, who treats her like a kid sister. But her brother's friend, Shawn O’Brien, sweeps her off her feet with his Irish charm and dashing good looks. Yet everyone but Joe wants her to give up her ideals. Should she change herself, try to change the man she loves, or follow her conscience to the man who is waiting with open arms?

Set during World War I, the suffrage movement, and the 1918 influenza pandemic.

(#11) Emily by Candice F. Ransom  
She could have anything in the world she wanted - but the one she loved

At the turn of the 20th century, Emily Blackburn is a wealthy New York society girl who has everything a girl could dream of. She wears the latest Parisian fashions, and is escorted to parties by the adoring and rich Worthington Bates. But amid the social whirl she feels empty and restless. When she meets the handsome Dr. Stephen Reed, she defies her parents and volunteers at the public hospital where he works. Helping there fills her life with new meaning, and Stephen stirs her heart with love. But he only sees her as a spoiled rich girl. Emily must prove that she isn’t useless and cares about others, most of all, about him.

Set in high society in the Gilded Age.

(#12) Jacquelyn by Jeffie Ross Gordon  
How can she think only of herself in these hard times?

Living in Chicago in the 1930s, during the Great Depression, Jacquelyn Penelope Carleton sees poverty and suffering everywhere. But as the daughter of one of the richest families in the city, she never expects to experience it herself. The