# Abelian group

In mathematics, an abelian group, also called a commutative group, is a group in which the result of applying the group operation to two group elements does not depend on the order in which they are written. That is, the group operation is commutative. With addition as an operation, the integers and the real numbers form abelian groups, and the concept of an abelian group may be viewed as a generalization of these examples. Abelian groups are named after early 19th century mathematician Niels Henrik Abel.

The concept of an abelian group underlies many fundamental algebraic structures, such as fields, rings, vector spaces, and algebras. The theory of abelian groups is generally simpler than that of their non-abelian counterparts, and finite abelian groups are very well understood and fully classified.

Definition 
An abelian group is a set , together with an operation  that combines any two elements  and  of  to form another element of  denoted . The symbol  is a general placeholder for a concretely given operation. To qualify as an abelian group, the set and operation, , must satisfy four requirements known as the abelian group axioms (some authors include in the axioms some properties that belong to the definition of an operation: namely that the operation is defined for any ordered pair of elements of , that the result is well-defined, and that the result belongs to ):

Associativity For all , , and  in , the equation  holds.
Identity element There exists an element  in , such that for all elements  in , the equation  holds.
Inverse element For each  in  there exists an element  in  such that , where  is the identity element.
Commutativity For all ,  in , .

A group in which the group operation is not commutative is called a "non-abelian group" or "non-commutative group".

Facts

Notation 

There are two main notational conventions for abelian groups – additive and multiplicative.

Generally, the multiplicative notation is the usual notation for groups, while the additive notation is the usual notation for modules and rings. The additive notation may also be used to emphasize that a particular group is abelian, whenever both abelian and non-abelian groups are considered, some notable exceptions being near-rings and partially ordered groups, where an operation is written additively even when non-abelian.

Multiplication table 
To verify that a finite group is abelian, a table (matrix) – known as a Cayley table – can be constructed in a similar fashion to a multiplication table. If the group is  under the  the  entry of this table contains the product .

The group is abelian if and only if this table is symmetric about the main diagonal. This is true since the group is abelian iff  for all , which is iff the  entry of the table equals the  entry for all , i.e. the table is symmetric about the main diagonal.

Examples 
 For the integers and the operation addition , denoted , the operation + combines any two integers to form a third integer, addition is associative, zero is the additive identity, every integer  has an additive inverse, , and the addition operation is commutative since  for any two integers  and .
 Every cyclic group  is abelian, because if ,  are in , then . Thus the integers, , form an abelian group under addition, as do the integers modulo , .
 Every ring is an abelian group with respect to its addition operation. In a commutative ring the invertible elements, or units, form an abelian multiplicative group. In particular, the real numbers are an abelian group under addition, and the nonzero real numbers are an abelian group under multiplication.
 Every subgroup of an abelian group is normal, so each subgroup gives rise to a quotient group. Subgroups, quotients, and direct sums of abelian groups are again abelian. The finite simple abelian groups are exactly the cyclic groups of prime order.
 The concepts of abelian group and -module agree.  More specifically, every -module is an abelian group with its operation of addition, and every abelian group is a module over the ring of integers  in a unique way.

In general, matrices, even invertible matrices, do not form an abelian group under multiplication because matrix multiplication is generally not commutative. However, some groups of matrices are abelian groups under matrix multiplication – one example is the group of  rotation matrices.

Historical remarks 

Camille Jordan named abelian groups after Norwegian mathematician Niels Henrik Abel, as Abel had found that the commutativity of the group of a polynomial implies that the roots of the polynomial can be calculated by using radicals.

Properties 
If  is a natural number and  is an element of an abelian group  written additively, then  can be defined as  ( summands) and . In this way,  becomes a module over the ring  of integers. In fact, the modules over  can be identified with the abelian groups.

Theorems about abelian groups (i.e. modules over the principal ideal domain ) can often be generalized to theorems about modules over an arbitrary principal ideal domain. A typical example is the classification of finitely generated abelian groups which is a specialization of the structure theorem for finitely generated modules over a principal ideal domain. In the case of finitely generated abelian groups, this theorem guarantees that an abelian group splits as a direct sum of a torsion group and a free abelian group. The former may be written as a direct sum of finitely many groups of the form  for  prime, and the latter is a direct sum of finitely many copies of .

If  are two group homomorphisms between abelian groups, then their sum , defined by , is again a homomorphism. (This is not true if  is a non-abelian group.) The set  of all group homomorphisms from  to  is therefore an abelian group in its own right.

Somewhat akin to the dimension of vector spaces, every abelian group has a rank. It is defined as the maximal cardinality of a set of linearly independent (over the integers) elements of the group. Finite abelian groups and torsion groups have rank zero, and every abelian group of rank zero is a torsion group. The integers and the rational numbers have rank one, as well as every nonzero additive subgroup of the rationals. On the other hand, the multiplicative group of the nonzero rationals has an infinite rank, as it is a free abelian group with the set of the prime numbers as a basis (this results from the fundamental theorem of arithmetic).

The center  of a group  is the set of elements that commute with every element of . A group  is abelian if and only if it is equal to its center . The center of a group  is always a characteristic abelian subgroup of . If the quotient group  of a group by its center is cyclic then  is abelian.

Finite abelian groups 
Cyclic groups of integers modulo , , were among the first examples of groups. It turns out that an arbitrary finite abelian group is isomorphic to a direct sum of finite cyclic groups of prime power order, and these orders are uniquely determined, forming a complete system of invariants. The automorphism group of a finite abelian group can be described directly in terms of these invariants. The theory had been first developed in the 1879 paper of Georg Frobenius and Ludwig Stickelberger and later was both simplified and generalized to finitely generated modules over a principal ideal domain, forming an important chapter of linear algebra.

Any group of prime order is isomorphic to a cyclic group and therefore abelian. Any group whose order is a square of a prime number is also abelian. In fact, for every prime number  there are (up to isomorphism) exactly two groups of order , namely  and .

Classification 
The fundamental theorem of finite abelian groups states that every finite abelian group  can be expressed as the direct sum of cyclic subgroups of prime-power order; it is also known as the basis theorem for finite abelian groups. Moreover, automorphism groups of cyclic groups are examples of abelian groups. This is generalized by the fundamental theorem of finitely generated abelian groups, with finite groups being the special case when G has zero rank; this in turn admits numerous further generalizations.

The classification was proven by Leopold Kronecker in 1870, though it was not stated in modern group-theoretic terms until later, and was preceded by a similar classification of quadratic forms by Carl Friedrich Gauss in 1801; see history for details.

The cyclic group  of order  is isomorphic to the direct sum of  and  if and only if  and  are coprime. It follows that any finite abelian group  is isomorphic to a direct sum of the form

in either of the following canonical ways:
 the numbers  are powers of (not necessarily distinct) primes,
 or  divides , which divides , and so on up to .

For example,  can be expressed as the direct sum of two cyclic subgroups of order 3 and 5: . The same can be said for any abelian group of order 15, leading