# Spy Fox 2: "Some Assembly Required"

Spy Fox 2: "Some Assembly Required" is an adventure game developed and published by Humongous Entertainment, part of their "Junior Adventure" line and the second entry in the Spy Fox series of games. The game follows the heroic Spy Fox as he races to stop a giant robot from destroying the World's Fair. The game was released for computers in September 1999.

Plot

In the Alps, Spy Fox meets with Canadian Spy Corps Agent Gracefully, who gives him a trash bag retrieved from S.M.E.L.L.Y. (the Society for Meaningless Evil Larceny Lying and Yelling). Spy Fox is pursued by S.M.E.L.L.Y. goons but manages to escape. He meets with the Chief of Spy Corps, revealing that the bag contains a box and instructions for a 1/1000 scale "Evil Dogbot" toy addressed to S.M.E.L.L.Y. leader Napoleon LeRoach. The Chief sends Fox to the World's Fair to investigate, with Monkey Penny and Professor Quack providing assistance from the Mobile Command Center. Using one of Professor Quack's gadgets, Spy Fox creates a false ID card to infiltrate LeRoach's restaurant and confront him.

LeRoach explains that he built a giant Dogbot and disguised it as the centerpiece for the World's Fair. The people going through the turnstile are unknowingly winding the clockwork powering the Dogbot; when the millionth customer enters, the Dogbot will become operational and go on a destructive rampage. To ensure he cannot be stopped, LeRoach hid the Dogbot's off switch, which would also require an activation code, and implemented a breath analyzer to prevent unauthorized access to the Dogbot's entrance in its Achilles' heel. LeRoach then imprisons Fox in the Dogbot's mouth, only for Spy Fox to escape. As Fox searches the fair for the items he needs, LeRoach reminisces on how, when he was a young boy, he was not allowed to ride the ride "French Pastries of the Past" because he was not tall enough to go through the turnstile. When other kids made fun of him for this, he swore to himself that he would someday get revenge.

Spy Fox and Agent Walter Wireless work together to receive the activation code from Agent Dottie Dash and learns the food necessary to bypass the breath analyzer, allowing him to sneak into the Dogbot and retrieve the off switch. Moments after placing it back on the control console and setting the code, the millionth customer walks through the turnstile and LeRoach activates the Dogbot, attacking the fair. Spy Fox manages to hit the off switch, deactivating the Dogbot. With his scheme foiled, LeRoach escapes to the sewers. If the player follows LeRoach there, a bonus ending will be unlocked. 

In the bonus ending, LeRoach prepares a computer program that will set off a million toasters hidden inside the Dogbot, each of which will burn a piece of toast to create a dark cloud that will hang over the fair for ten months. Fox finds a sewer pipe LeRoach plans to use to escape to Fiji. He redirects it and flushes LeRoach down it, sending him through the pipe to a Spy Jail cell. Afterwards, the Chief presents Spy Fox with an award for capturing LeRoach, which the player can print out.

Gameplay 
This game features the same mechanics as the first game. The paths in this game vary just like in most other Humongous Entertainment games, but there are only two possible scenarios for how the tasks will play out, instead of each of the tasks being randomly selected for each playthrough.

Reception 

The Electric Playground named Spy Fox 2 the best computer adventure game of 1999.

References

External links
 
 Spy Fox 2: "Some Assembly Required" at Humongous Entertainment

1999 video games
Adventure games
Android (operating system) games
Children's educational video games
Classic Mac OS games
GT Interactive games
IOS games
Linux games
Point-and-click adventure games
SCUMM games
ScummVM-supported games
Single-player video games
Spy Fox
Tommo games
Video games about foxes
Video games developed in the United States
Windows games