# International Justice Mission

International Justice Mission is an international, non-governmental 501(c)(3) organization focused on human rights, law and law enforcement. Founded in 1997 by lawyer Gary Haugen of the United States, it is based in Washington, D.C. All IJM employees are required to be practicing Christians; 94% are nationals of the countries they work in.

IJM works to combat sex trafficking, child sexual exploitation , cybersex trafficking, forced labor slavery, property grabbing, and police abuse of power, and addresses citizenship rights of minorities. The bulk of IJM's work focuses on sex trafficking. IJM's close coordination with third-world police agencies and the resulting arrests and deportations of sex workers have generated criticism from human rights and sex worker organizations over its mission and tactics.

History

Founding
The International Justice Mission was founded in 1997 as a faith-based non-profit by American lawyer Gary Haugen of the United States. In its first case, the organization aided the arrest of a rape suspect in Manila, Philippines. In 1998, IJM claimed to have helped rescue more than 700 people. In addition to helping clients with legal representation, Haugen decided his organization could have more influence by partnering with governments of developing countries to help improve their legal systems.

As of November, 2022, IJM has two country programs (out of 30 total) that focus on sex trafficking: Kenya-Mombasa, Romania, and the Dominican Republic.  

The other 26 program offices work on forced labor (Romania; Ghana; Malaysia; Thailand; Cambodia; Indonesia; Myanmar; India; Philippines); domestic violence and sexual assault (Uganda; Kenya; Colombia; Guatemala; El Salvador; Bolivia; and Peru) and police violence (Kenya.)

Work in Thailand
IJM has worked in northern Thailand through IJM’s Chiang Mai field office (FO) since 2000, partnering with government authorities on hill tribe Thai citizenship cases and cases of sexual violence against children.  Over the early 2000s IJM was involved in work to target the sex worker industry. These included a number of brothel raids in Northern Thailand which were the subject of criticisms at the time due to their impact on non-coerced adults. In 2017, IJM started a new field office in Bangkok and in 2018 IJM Foundation was established to provide support to Thai authorities to eliminate labor trafficking and forced labor from the Thai fishing and seafood industries after a 2017 study found 38% of fisherman on Thai fishing vessels identified as trafficking victims.

Work in Cambodia
ICJ has worked with Cambodian authorities to combat child sex trafficking for over 25 years. An external Evaluation of the International Justice Mission’s Program to Combat Sex Trafficking of Children in Cambodia, reports that between 2003 and 2013, IJM trained a total of 504 persons, including 481 police officials and 23 other trainees, including DoSVY, NGO partners, and Deputy Governors of Districts in Siem Reap Province.

IJM director Gary Haugen invited the American television show Dateline (NBC) to film a March 29, 2003 raid which it planned to conduct at a large Cambodian brothel in the village of Svay Pak. The brothel contained approximately 40 girls, many under the age of 10, who were detained by Thai police along with 12 accused pimps and madams. A noodle vendor, who had no involvement with the brothel, was among those who were arrested in the raid; the noodle vendor subsequently died in jail of a stroke. IJM later contracted with a Cambodian human rights organization, LICADHO, to review its actions in organizing the raid. Peter Sainsbury, the consultant who reviewed the raid, said that he had told IJM about his medical concerns about the noodle vendor, but that his concerns were ignored.
At least twelve of the victims "rescued" from the 2003 Svay Pak raid ran away from the safe house to which they were taken. In a brothel raid a year later there, a number of girls rescued from the 2003 raid were found to be involved again in sex work.

While IJM considered these "rescues" to be successes, critics questioned the organization's tactics, saying raids on brothels do not focus on the root causes of child prostitution, have led to the arrests of people not in the sex trade, and hindered HIV-prevention initiatives.

Work in Ghana
In Ghana IJM has been engaged in identifying instances of child labour and trafficking since 2014. Children as young as age 4 have been subjected to forced labor in fishing in the areas around Lake Volta, sometimes as a result of human trafficking.  
In 2017 IJM Ghana team and local authorities rescued 31 children believed to be engaged in forced labor from fishing communities within the area of Lake Volta and placed them into custody. The authorities who placed the children into custody included representatives from Ghanaian social welfare agencies within the government.

Expansion
International Justice Mission expanded its work beyond prevention of sex trafficking. By 2009 its lawyers, social workers and advocates also helped victims whose land had been seized, who were bonded laborers, or who were falsely imprisoned. In 2010 U.S. News & World Report named International Justice Mission as one of '10 Service Groups That Are Making a Difference' list. Under President Barack Obama's administration, the United States Department of State honored Haugen, International Justice Mission's founder and CEO, as a Trafficking in Persons Report Hero Acting to End Modern Slavery in 2012. The State Department said IJM helped nearly 4,000 victims and assisted in the prosecution of 220 offenders between 2006 and 2012.

In December 2011, Google awarded a total of US$11.5 million in grants to organizations to combat modern-day slavery. Google donated $9.8 million to International Justice Mission to lead a coalition focusing on fighting slavery in India, in addition to running advocacy and education programs in the country, and mobilizing Americans.

IJM CEO Gary Haugen and Victor Boutros co-wrote The Locust Effect: Why the End of Poverty Requires the End of Violence in 2014. They won the 2016 University of Louisville Grawemeyer Award for Ideas Improving World Order for this book. Haugen gave a 19-minute TED talk on this material in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, in 2015.

Within 20 years of its founding, International Justice Mission had grown into an organization with a $51.6 million budget comprising more than 750 employees in 17 countries in Africa, Latin America, South Asia and Southeast Asia, and five partner offices in Canada, UK, Netherlands, Germany and Australia.>

In July 2016, Willie Kimani, a Kenyan IJM lawyer, and two persons, including an IJM client, were found murdered and dumped in a river outside Nairobi in Kenya. They were last seen alive at a police station. Four members of the Kenyan Administrative Police were charged with murder on July 18, 2016; they pleaded not guilty. Haugen denounced the killings as "an intolerable outrage and should serve as an abrupt wake-up call to the blatant injustices committed daily and incessantly against the poor and vulnerable around the world".

Programs
International Justice Mission represents victims in cases of sex trafficking, forced labor, slavery, abuse of police power, theft of property and citizenship rights. It also works with the governments of developing countries to improve justice systems.

IJM hires only practicing Christians; its job listings include "Mature orthodox Christian faith as defined by the Apostles' Creed" among stated requirements.  Workdays at all offices begin with a half-hour of stillness and a half-hour of corporate prayer later in the day as part of their spiritual formation practices.  IJM cites the Bible verse Isaiah 1:17 as one of their core commitments:
Learn to do right; seek justice.
    Defend the oppressed.
Take up the cause of the fatherless;
    plead the case of the widow. - New International Version (NIV)

Through Project Lantern, International Justice Mission worked to develop a model for combatting sex slavery and human trafficking that other organizations and agencies could use. In 2010, IJM reported the project documented a 79 percent decrease in the number of minors sold for sex in Cebu, Philippines. Project Lantern was funded by a $5 million grant from the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation in 2006.

In addition to its aforementioned work, International Justice Mission runs programs to train criminal justice departments and governments and provides legal aid. The organization runs programs to help victims recover from their time in forced labor. Additionally, IJM has endorsed proposed legislation in Washington, D.C., to enhance anti-trafficking efforts, including the End Modern Slavery Initiative.

Investigations from third-party sources have presented some negative outcomes of IJM's work. A United States Agency for International Development-funded census of sex workers in Cambodia in