# Legal issues in airsoft

Airsoft is a sport in which players use airsoft guns to fire plastic projectiles at other players in order to eliminate them. Due to the often-realistic appearance of airsoft guns and their ability to fire projectiles at relatively high speeds, laws have been put in place in many countries to regulate both the sport of airsoft and the guns themselves. Safety regulations in many areas require an orange or red tip on the end of the barrel in order to distinguish the airsoft gun from a working firearm. They are officially classed as "soft air devices" or "air compressed toys", depending on the jurisdiction. A handful of countries including Australia, Malaysia, and Singapore have laws that are deemed to be airsoft-unfriendly.

Australia

Importation of airsoft guns (referred officially as toy models by the Department of Immigration and Border Protection), regardless of their legal status by state, requires an Australian Customs B709 Importation of FirearmsPolice Confirmation and Certification Form. These forms can be obtained from the relevant state's police department, however some states may require operators hold a valid license for the class of firearm wished to import before the forms will be issued. Due to the strict regulation of airsoft guns, gel blasters have become a popular alternative.

Possession and importation of airsoft weapons are banned outright in the states of New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, Western Australia, South Australia, and Tasmania.  Tasmania has also banned the game of airsoft, as well as paintball, stating that they are wargames.

Northern Territory
Airsoft firearms are legal to buy in the Northern Territory, provided one has the necessary licenses.

Australian Capital Territory
The Registrar of the Australian Capital Territory has a list of approved replica weapons and airsoft guns. Outside of the approved list, all airsoft guns that resemble semiautomatic or automatic military rifles or shotguns adapted for military purposes are considered prohibited weapons, as are imitations or replicas of any firearm.

Argentina
In Argentina, airsoft guns can be bought and used by anyone over the age of 18, however the import, sale and manufacture of replica guns requires a permit by federal law 26.216.

Armenia
Airsoft guns with muzzle energy below three joules (a muzzle velocity of 173.2 m/s or 568 fps for a 0.20 g projectile) are legal. They are not considered weapons and do not require any licenses or permissions to buy.

Belgium
In Belgium, weapons that launch a projectile without the use of gunpowder are unrestricted for people over the age of 18 as long as the weapon is longer than 60 cm, has a barrel longer than 30 cm, and a muzzle energy less than 7.5 joules (J).

Commercial sales, imports, and exports may be done only by licensed firearms dealers. Non-commercial sales or owner transfers can be done by anyone aged 18 years or older.

All events must take place in private locations with the prior notification and permission of the local governing body and law enforcement. Airsoft organizations are prohibited from maintaining affiliation with ideological or religious agendas. In the Flemish region, when organizing more than two times per year, an environment permit must be acquired. When organizing in a designated forest area, permission from the regional forest agency is needed. In the Walloon area in general it is sufficient to inform the local authorities.

Strict environmental laws mandate the exclusive use of bio-degradable BBs.

Brazil
Airsoft is a very recent shooting sport in Brazil. In the past, due to lack of regulation, airsoft was usually misinterpreted as a firearm clone or replica. Nowadays, airsoft is legal but there are strong restrictions. Based on the current minutes that have gone public, airsoft guns are not considered firearms, but they are still considered controlled items. To import them, it is necessary to pay import taxes of 60% of the value of the product including freight, plus about 150 reais (around 50 US dollars) in administrative fees. It is also necessary before importing any weapon or weapon accessory to submit an application for a CII (International Import Certificate) to the Brazilian Army, containing the data of the equipment being imported, the location of the airport or port of departure in the country of foreign and in the national arrival, store and buyer data and product values. A response to the application can take up to three months, and the response must be sent to the seller to attach to the outside of the merchandise. If it does not have a CII when the merchandise arrives in the country it will be confiscated. This bureaucracy causes a delay in the domestic market with the international market, it also causes the lack of use of low prices abroad and as Brazil has high-interest rates (along with import taxes) the product often comes to triple the price. No guns need transportation permits after import.

People under 18 are not allowed to buy airsoft guns and commercial entities and importers are obliged to retain documentation of airsoft buyers for five years. An orange or red tip is required in order to differentiate them from firearms. There are still strong restrictions on importing accessories such as holographic sights, red dot sights, and magazines, which require a CII and are subject to administrative taxes.

Airsoft is expensive in Brazil, as it costs almost as much as a real firearm in the US. However, the sport has grown quite large due to YouTubers and is estimated to have almost 100,000 participants . Due to high import rates, the Brazilian market is loaded with cheap weapons of entry-level brands like CYMA, JG, King Arms, Cybergun, and Umarex. The airsoft community adopts projectile speed limits but there is no law that requires them. The typical limits are:
 Assault rifles: 400 feet per second (fps)
 Semi-automatic sniper rifles (M110 SASS, PSG-1, etc.): 500 fps and no shooting within 15 m, mandatory secondary up to 400 fps
 Sniper rifles: 550 fps and no shooting within 15 m, mandatory secondary up to 400 fps
 Designated marksman rifles (DMR): 450 fps and no shooting within 15 m, mandatory secondary up to 400 fps

Bulgaria
Airsoft is a legal sport in Bulgaria and there are no restrictions placed on the guns apart from parents' permission for people under 18. As airsoft guns are considered air guns by Bulgarian law, no documents or licenses are needed to possess them. There are no restrictions about lasers or flashlights. Moreover, there is no need for the end of the barrel to be painted in orange (like in the United States). There are neither restrictions on the power of air and airsoft guns (although there are official rules enforced by individual airsoft fields or by Airsoft Sofia in games that they organize) nor on carrying them in public areas, although it is highly unadvisable to carry replica firearms in public places outside of a carrying case or appropriate backpack. This rule is unofficially enforced by the Airsoft Sofia organisation and is punishable by a temporary or permanent ban from official games, as it creates unwanted friction between players and the authorities and public.

Shooting in protected areas, which include schools, administrative buildings, public property, and public areas is forbidden. Private regulated land must obtain an urban planning application or consent to make it public land before starting a paintball field with an internal boundary of 3 m. Many airsoft participants in Bulgaria have their own field rules which usually include being 18 years of age, but there are some exceptions.

Canada
Airsoft guns that are not replicas of real weapons are neither illegal nor heavily restricted in Canada. Under the Canadian Firearms Program, airsoft guns resembling with near precision an existing make and model of an arm, other than an antique arm, and with a muzzle velocity below 366 fps, are considered replica arms and therefore are prohibited devices. Models resembling antique arms may be allowed. Generally, antique arms are those manufactured before 1898. Individuals may keep replica guns they owned on 1December 1998 and no license is required, however the import or acquisition of replica firearms is prohibited. If the replica firearm is taken out of Canada it will not be allowed back in.

Non-replica air guns with a muzzle velocity between 111.6 m/s (366 fps) and 152.4 m/s (500 fps) or a maximum muzzle energy of 5.7 J (4.2 ft-lbs) are exempt from licensing, registration, and other requirements; and from penalties for possessing an arm without a valid license or registration certificate. Legislation tabled by the Federal Government in 2022 would, if passed, reclassify air guns firing at those speeds as airsoft guns and those replicas (BBs and pellets) would be illegal as well. All replicas regardless of muzzle velocity are considered firearms under the Criminal Code if used to commit a crime. Airsoft guns that excee