# 2001 in Zimbabwe

Incumbents
 President: Robert Mugabe 
 First Vice President: Simon Muzenda
 Second Vice President: Joseph Msika

Events

January 
 The Anti-Personnel Mines (Prohibition) Act 2000" is incorporated into Zimbabwe's domestic law.
 One person is murdered in political violence in January 2001.
 1 January – Movement for Democratic Change (MDC) supporter Bernard Gara is murdered in Bikita West.
 13–14 January – By-elections held in Bikita West are won by ZANU–PF.
 16 January – Democratic Republic of Congo President Laurent Kabila is assassinated and given medical treatment in Harare.
 26 January – 133 farms are listed for compulsory acquisition by government.
 28 January – Z$100 million printing presses of the Daily News are bombed.

February
 One person is murdered in political violence in February 2001.
 3 February – Riot police break up a peaceful demonstration by journalists in Harare protesting the bombing of the Daily News.
 9 February – Police have still made no arrests in connection with Daily News bombing
Government begins to pressure Supreme Court Chief Justice Gubbay to resign.
 14 February – Armed men in army uniform storm the house of MDC MP Job Sikhala and assault him and his pregnant wife.
 16 February – War veterans arrive en masse in Masvingo ahead of mayoral elections.
 22 February – Foreign journalist Mercedes Sayagues and BBC Correspondent Joseph Winter, both resident in Zimbabwe, are declared prohibited immigrants and ordered to leave the country
People suspected to be war veterans attempt to break into the home of journalist Joseph Winter
CIO agents attempt to break into the home of Loice Matanda-Moyo, an officer in the Attorney General's Office who had granted an order extending the departure date of journalist Joseph Winter.
 27 February – Senior Police Assistant Commissioner Solomon Ncube resigns from the force.

March
 Five people are murdered in political violence in March 2001.
 1 March – In an annual report, figures show that tourist arrivals have shrunk by 60 per cent and over 5000 people have been made redundant in the sector in the past year.
 2 March – Soldiers are unleashed in Chitungwiza and other high-density suburbs around Harare; numerous civilians are severely assaulted over a number of days
War veteran shareholders of ZEXCOM call for the arrest of Chenjerai Hunzvi over fraud allegations amounting to Z$50 million.
 4 March – Commercial farmer Gloria Olds, aged 72, is shot 15 times at her gate shortly after dawn, her dogs are killed and her car is used as a getaway vehicle.
 6 March – Inyathi farmer Denis Streak is abducted and held for a number of hours by war veterans.
 7 March – Armed men claiming to be war veterans shoot and seriously injure Trust Moyo and David Mota in Epworth outside Harare
Police have still made no arrests in connection with the bombing of the Daily News printing presses and have released no information on the matter.
 8 March – ZANU–PF-supporting judge, Godfrey Chidyausiku, is appointed Acting Chief Justice of the Supreme Court
ZANU–PF MP Eddison Zvobgo accuses ZANU–PF of introducing unconstitutional and irrational laws governing broadcasting in Zimbabwe
Armed war veterans invade an Harare estate agency and assault the managing director
High Court hears sworn testimony that Olivia Muchena (MP for Mutoko South) told people at a rally that anyone who supported the MDC would be killed.
 9 March – The Midlands Chamber of Zimbabwe Industries (CZI)reports that 1000 workers have been retrenched in the last two months in the Midlands.
 19 March – Zimbabwe Republic Police (ZRP) promote 300 war veterans to rank of Sergeant & Assistant Inspector.
 20 March – A delegation from the committee to Protect Journalists meets with Zimbabwe's ambassador to the US.
 22 March – Exiled Ethiopian dictator Mengistu Haile Mariam and his family are given permanent resident status in Zimbabwe
Inflation hits 57.7 per cent.
 23 March – War veterans storm the Harare Children's Home, shout, threaten and demand to see the supervisor; they also invade more than a dozen other Harare businesses under the guise of resolving labour disputes
95 farms are listed for compulsory acquisition.
 26 March – War veterans and ZANU–PF supporters close down Bulawayo textile company Dezign Inc.
 28 March – 500,000 people register for food aid in the Masvingo province
War veterans and ZANU–PF supporters invade companies in Kadoma.
 29 March – Masvingo Provincial Governor Josiah Hungwe threatens Masvingo residents with death if they do not vote for ZANU–PF in mayoral elections.
 31 March – Harare Hospital reports that it has run out of essential drugs; nine infant deaths are being recorded per week at the hospital; 80 per cent of children admitted are suffering from malnutrition.

April
 2 April – Nurses and health workers in Nkayi, suspected of supporting the MDC, are dismissed and replaced by army personnel.
 4 April – Chenjerai Hunzvi announces that war veterans will set up base centres in all urban centres
Teachers are forced to pay protection money to war veterans in Mashonaland East.
 9 April – Zimbabwean lawyers petition Police Commissioner Augustine Chihuri to stop police harassment of lawyers
University of Zimbabwe (UZ) first-year student Batanai Hadzizi dies after being assaulted by riot police.
 10 April – Riot police fire shrapnel-loaded tear gas at University of Zimbabwe students who march in peaceful protest through Harare
War veteran Joseph Chinotimba declares himself the president of the Zimbabwe Congress of Trade Unions
War veterans and ZANU–PF supporters invade and close the Chipinge branch of Farm and City Centre.
 12 April – War veterans and ZANU–PF supporters assault five senior officials at the Cotton Company of Zimbabwe's Gokwe branch
Hundreds of villagers from the Kezi district flee to the mountains to escape rampaging war veterans and government supporters incensed at the locals' support of an MDC rally.
 18 April – President Mugabe threatens to nationalise mines and manufacturing companies that are closing down due to economic collapse.
 20 April – Two Pakistani Businessmen who have invested Z$200 million in Zimbabwe flee the country after repeated attacks by war veterans on their city businesses and homes
137 farms are listed for compulsory acquisition by the government.
 24 April – War veterans and ZANU–PF supporters invade the Harare Avenues Clinic, Macsteel Zimbabwe, Meikels department store and the Forestry Commission; they also force the Dental Clinic to pay out Z$7 million, and the company closes completely.
 25 April – War veterans and ZANU–PF supporters invade Mechman Engineering and successfully demand pay-outs to employees of Z$7 million; they also invade Resource Drilling, Trinidad Industries, Lobels Bakery, Scotco, Omnia Fertilizer, Leno Trading, Willdale Bricks, Madel Training Centre, Craster and Phillips.
 26 April – South Africa summons the Zimbabwe High Commissioner and protests the violent attacks on its business in Harare
Chenjerai Hunzvi warns that war veterans will target foreign embassies and NGOs in the ongoing company invasions; the EU protests to the Zimbabwe government about war veterans who raid and steal Z$1 million worth of food aid given to victims of Cyclone Eline
The Law Society urges Justice Minister Chinamasa to end attacks against lawyers
A seven-member panel of international jurists releases a report criticising attacks against Zimbabwe's judiciary.
 27 April – Agriculture Minister Joseph Made insists that there will be no food shortages in Zimbabwe and no need to import any wheat or maize
374 farms are listed for compulsory acquisition by the government – included are the country's major tea and coffee estates.
 28 April – Still no arrests three months after Daily News press bombings
Minister of Youth, Border Gezi, dies in a car crash.
 30 April – Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies move their seven expatriate families out of Zimbabwe, fearing for their safety.

May
 Three people are murdered in political violence in May 2001.
 1 May – War veteran Joseph Chinotimba invades May Day celebrations and takes over the proceedings, says companies in Bulawayo will be named for invasions by his colleagues.
 4 May – Economists predict that Z$8.5 billion will be needed to import grain into Zimbabwe; 40 farms are listed for compulsory acquisition by the government; MDC activists are kidnapped and beaten in Masvingo.
 6 May – Riot police seal off high-density suburbs in Masvingo as political violence breaks out. MDC supporters are arrested and have their car impounded.
 8 May – Agriculture Minister Joseph Made announces that all wheat exports have immediately been suspended. Made continues to insist that wheat stocks are adequate and no grain will have to be imported; violent clashes take place in Masvingo between MDC and ZANU–PF supporters led by Chenjerai Hunzvi, and 13 people are injured.
 10 May – The British Council closes its Library and Information Department Offices in