# INASP

INASP (International Network for Advancing Science and Policy) is an international development charity working with a global network of partners to improve access, production and use of research information and knowledge, so that countries are equipped to solve their development challenges.

Based in Oxford and governed by an international Board of Trustees, INASP is run with a small number of full-time staff working with, and through, partners and networks in over one hundred countries. INASP's work is funded by its partner countries, governmental and non-governmental development agencies, and philanthropic foundations.

History 
INASP original name, now superseded, was "International Network for the Availability of Scientific Publications".
It was established by the International Council for Science (ICSU) in 1992 to "improve access to information and knowledge through a commitment to capacity building in emerging and developing countries."

It was registered as a charity in 2004.

Work 
INASP is an international development charity working with a global network of partners to improve access, production and use of research information and knowledge, so that countries are equipped to solve their development challenges 

INASP has over 30 years of experience of working across research and knowledge systems in Africa, Latin America, and Asia. INASP believes that locally generated knowledge and solutions are key to solving local and global challenges. Their vision is of research and knowledge at the heart of development – where decisions are informed by relevant and rigorous evidence, and where knowledge is created with the communities it is intended to serve. Many voices, institutions, and types of knowledge are required.  

INASP works in partnership with people and organisations who produce, communicate, and use knowledge to strengthen key capacities and confidence. Their work aims to support individuals with fewer opportunities, to reach beyond apex institutions, and to connect researchers and students with knowledge users. They strive to work in an integrated way – supporting individuals and organisations, facilitating connections between them to affect system-level change, and thinking hard about sustainability from the design stages of any project.  

INASP’s values are: in it together; making change last; every voice counts; and, doing things right.  

All of INASP’s work is based on the following pillars: capacity development, learning and adapting, and equitable partnership. 

INASP works on 4 Themes: 

 Digital Platforms and Digital Learning: INASP believes that digital tools, used well, can open up access to learning, connect learning to their peers, and bridge gaps in campus-based support. AuthorAID is an award-winning community-led platform that brings researchers together to learn and share knowledge. 
 Supporting Southern Research and Higher Education Institutions: INASP has worked in partnership with Southern universities and research institutions for over 30 years, especially universities in second cities and rural areas, who are closely connected to their communities and local economies. 
 Gender-Responsive Knowledge Systems: To produce the most relevant and rigorous research, the voices, ideas and expertise of both women and men are needed. INASP supports gender mainstreaming in universities and research institutions and with partners helped to establish new national alliances that are tackling gender across the research system in Ethiopia and Uganda. 

 Equitable Knowledge Ecosystems: INASP’s vision is of research and knowledge at the heart of development require the involvement of many voices, institutions, and types of knowledge. INASP call this an equitable knowledge ecosystem.

Projects

Global Platforms for Equitable Knowledge Ecosystems (GPEKE) 
The Global Platforms for Equitable Knowledge Ecosystems (GPEKE) project seeks to build stronger and more equitable research systems both between North and South, and in three focus countries: Uganda, Ethiopia and Cambodia in partnership with Ethiopian Academy of Sciences, Uganda National Council for Science and Technology, and Royal University of Phnom Penh.

AuthorAID 

The AuthorAID project has two key goals: to increase the success rate of developing country researchers in achieving publication; and to increase the visibility and influence of research in the developing world. AuthorAID achieves these objectives through networking, resources, training and mentoring.

See also
Open Access Scholarly Publishers Association, of which INASP is a member
Information Management Resource Kit (IMARK)
Dgroups

References

External links
 
 Publishers for Development 

Organizations established in 1992
Academic publishing
Academic journal online publishing platforms
International development charities