# Blood of the Vampire

Blood of the Vampire is a 1958 British colour horror film directed by Henry Cass and starring Donald Wolfit, Barbara Shelley, and Vincent Ball. The film was produced by Robert S. Baker and Monty Berman for Tempean Films, from a screenplay by Jimmy Sangster.

Many horror fans thought the feature was a Hammer Films production when it came out, due to its similar look and Sangster's writer's credit. The film's U.S. release was in October 1958 as a double feature with Universal's Monster on the Campus.

The film's storyline, set in Transylvania, is about a scientist who uses the inmates of a prison for the criminally insane as sources for his gruesome blood-typing and transfusion experiments that are keeping him alive.

Plot
A man's body wrapped in a shroud is shoved into a Transylvania grave in 1874. An executioner drives a stake through its heart. Immediately afterward, Carl, severely physically disabled, emerges from hiding and kills the gravedigger. Carl summons a drunken doctor to perform a heart transplant on the body then murders the doctor.

Six years later, Dr. John Pierre is convicted of "malpractice leading to manslaughter" after an emergency blood transfusion, which has never been done successfully, fails, killing his patient. As John's fiancée Madeleine watches, John is sentenced to life imprisonment in a penal colony. But instead, he gets sent to a Prison for the Criminal Insane, run by Dr. Callistratus. When John meets Callistratus, he learns that he is to help with Calistratus' blood-typing research so that transfusions can be safely done, especially for those with an unnamed "rare and serious blood condition."

At his trial, John maintained that the patient's death was unavoidable and asked the judge to write to Prof. Meinster in Geneva to vouch for him. The judge says he already had, but Meinster replied that he doesn't know John.

At the request of Madeleine and her uncle, Meinster travels to Transylvania, where they meet with Auron, a member of the Prison Commission. Meinster insists that the court never contacted him. Auron, who is on Callistratus's payroll, had intercepted the letter to Meinster and forged a reply. He now must reopen the case.

John grows increasingly uncomfortable with his work because the blood is from unwilling inmates, many of whom die. Auron revisits Callistratus and tells him that the Prison Commission has ordered John's release. Callistratus tells John that the commission has denied his appeal and informs the Commission that John and another inmate, Kurt, died in an escape attempt. John and Kurt then actually try to escape but fail. Kurt is presumably killed by the vicious Dobermans, which keep the prisoners in line. Madeleine refuses to believe that John is dead and takes a job as Callistratus' housekeeper so she can investigate.

John discovers that Kurt's grave is empty. Auron visits Callistratus again and recognises Madeleine from their meeting. Auron goes to her room and attempts to rape her, but is stopped by Carl, who has fallen in love with her. Callistratus demands an explanation of the assault. Madeleine tells him what happened. Auron denies it and tells Callistratus about her relationship with John. Callistratus throws him out. Insulted, Auron threatens to expose Callistratus. After leaving, Callistratus sends Carl after him, and Auron is not seen again.

Callistratus takes Madeleine to his laboratory and chains her to a wall. John arrives to rescue her but is also chained. Callistratus orders Carl to strap Madeleine to an operating table, but Carl refuses. Callistratus shoots him. Callistratus straps her down himself and wheels out Kurt, now just a torso with a head and one arm. Callistratus tells John that he was executed for being a vampire because of his previous work with blood, but had put himself into suspended animation. The heart transplant revived him, but he now has the "rare and fatal blood condition" he spoke of earlier. He needs constant transfusions and has drained all the blood of many inmates. He now intends to transfuse Madeleine's blood into Kurt.

John yells to Kurt to "resist," and Kurt grips Callistratus' arm. As they struggle, they move close enough for John to knock Callistratus unconscious and free himself. Kurt dies from the exertion. John unstraps Madeleine and takes Callistratus hostage, demanding free passage from the prison. They walk free but Carl, who survived Callistratus' shot, frees the hounds then dies after being shot again by the guards. The Dobermans tear Callistratus to shreds.

Cast
Opening and closing credits differ. This list in the order of the end credits, with corrections and additions from the British Film Institute (BFI).

 Donald Wolfit as Callistratus
 Vincent Ball as John Pierre
 Barbara Shelley as Madeleine
 Victor Maddern as Carl
 William Devlin as Kurt
 Andrew Faulds as Wetzler
 John Le Mesurier as Judge
 Brian Coleman as Auron ('Bryan' is correct spelling & used in opening credits)
 Cameron Hall as Drunken Doctor
 George Murcell as First Guard
 Julian Strange as Second Guard (not in opening credits)
 Bruce Whiteman as Third Guard (not in opening credits)
 Barbara Burke as Housekeeper
 Bernard Bresslaw as Tall Sneak Thief
 Hal Osmond as Small Sneak Thief
 Henry Vidon as Professor Meinster
 John Stuart as Uncle
 Colin Tapley as Commissioner of Prisons
 Muriel Ali as Gypsy Dancer
 Max Brimmell as Warder (not in opening credits)
 Dennis Shaw as Blacksmith (not in opening credits)
 Otto Diamant as Gravedigger
 Milton Reed as Executioner (not in opening credits; BFI spells surname 'Reid')
 Richard Golding as Official

Theodore Williams' name appears in the opening credits, but neither the actor's nor the character's name are in the end credits. BFI refers to him as 'Emaciated Prisoner'. BFI also includes five additional uncredited performers: Yvonne Buckingham (Serving Wench); Sylvia Casimir (Laughing Woman at Tavern); Suzanne Lee (Uncredited); Gordon Honey (Stretcher Bearer); and Carlos Williams (Stretcher Bearer).

In addition to BFI's additions, The Internet Movie Data Base (IMDb) includes as uncredited performers: Alf Mangan (Prisoner); Mary Marshall (Woman Prisoner); and Patricia Phoenix (Woman). Marshall and Phoenix's scenes were cut from the UK theatrical version by the BBFC, but can seen in the "Continental" version recently restored for Blu-ray.

Production
The film was inspired by the success of Hammer's The Curse of Frankenstein (1957) and The Horror of Dracula (1958). The producers hired Jimmy Sangster, writer of both those movies, to do the screenplay. Shooting took four weeks. Blood of the Vampire was distributed in the UK by Eros Films and in the US by Universal International.

Posters for Blood of the Vampire indicate that it was considered an adults-only film in France and the UK at the time of its release. French posters note that viewing by people under age 16 was prohibited and UK posters show that the film carried an X Certificate from the British Board of Film Censors, which prohibited the exhibition of the movie to those under 16. The X Certificate is indicative of the activities of Eros Film Distributors, which had by then deliberately 'embarked on a new X-certificate path'. Tempean Productions 'embraced' not only films designed to get an X cert, but also 'Eros's policy of offering co-feature programmes which could be marketed not only in Britain, but also on the American drive-in circuits'.

Producing films for drive-in theatres was apparently successful. According to a contemporary newspaper advertisement, the Moonlite Drive-In in Smithtown, Pennsylvania, on Wednesday, 3 August 1960 ran a dawn-to-dusk triple feature with Blood of the Vampire as the first movie - nearly two years after its American release - Revenge of Frankenstein (1958) the second and The Beast of Hollow Mountain (1956) the third. As a promotion, attendees whose tickets ended in 13 were treated to 'Dracula's Buffet Luncheon', which consisted of 'Dracula's Blood Cocktail, Deviled Zombie Snacks, Crispy Skull Chips, Devil Fruit, Voodoo Spirits' and a 'Werewolf Tail Sandwich'.

Blood of the Vampire was released over a considerable amount of time in a number of countries. After its London premiere on 26 August 1958, it opened in the US in October 1958 and was followed by Germany in December 1958, the Netherlands in April 1959, France in April 1960, Japan in July 1960, Spain in 1966 and Sweden in October 1969. The film also played in theatres in Belgium, Italy, Greece and Brazil. It was re-released theatrically in France in 1986, as well. The running time of the film was 84 minutes in the UK and 87 minutes in the USA.

Curiously, the model village scene for Carlstadt at about 10 minutes into the film uses the same model set (with the Globe theatre) as used for the 1944 film Henry V.

Reception
Initial reviews of Blood of the Vampire were mixed. Review Digest in the January 19, 1959 issue of BoxOffice magazine showed the following ratings: Ha