# BFI London Film Festival

The BFI London Film Festival is an annual film festival held in London, England in collaboration with the British Film Institute. The festival runs for two weeks in October every year. In 2016, the BFI estimated that around 240 feature films and 150 short films from more than 70 countries are screened at the festival each year.

History
At a dinner party in 1953, at the home of film critic Dilys Powell of The Sunday Times, attended by film administrator James Quinn, guests discussed the lack of a film festival in London. Quinn went on to start the first London Film Festival, which took place at the new National Film Theatre (now renamed BFI Southbank) from 16–26 October 1957. The first festival screened 15–20 films that were already successful at other festivals, including Akira Kurosawa's Throne of Blood (which opened the festival), Satyajit Ray's Aparajito, Andrzej Wajda's Kanał, Luchino Visconti's White Nights, Ingmar Bergman's The Seventh Seal, Federico Fellini's Nights of Cabiria and Elia Kazan's A Face in the Crowd. The first edition was sponsored by The Sunday Times.

The second festival was held from 6–14 October 1958 and saw the introduction of the Sutherland Trophy, an annual award for "the maker of the most original and imaginative film introduced at the National Film Theatre during the year", which was awarded to Yasujirō Ozu for Tokyo Story. The third festival featured François Truffaut's The 400 Blows, for which he famously turned up to the festival without a ticket and unable to speak English.

The third festival opened 12 October 1959 with the Czech puppet version of A Midsummer Night's Dream directed by Jiří Trnka.

Richard Roud became festival director in 1960, the first year that a British film was shown at the festival; the world premiere of Karel Reisz's Saturday Night and Sunday Morning. The fourth edition also featured Michelangelo Antonioni's L'Avventura and Truffaut's Shoot the Pianist.

The fifth edition opened 17 October 1961 with Jacques Demy's Lola. The 1962 festival featured the first midnight matinee, Tony Richardson's The Loneliness of the Long Distance Runner. Roman Polanski's first feature-length film Knife in the Water and Jean-Luc Godard's Vivre sa vie were also screened.

A new strand of the festival called London Choices was added in 1965. London Choices featured debut and lesser-known features. One of the first London Choices features was Dear John, directed by Lars-Magnus Lindgren.

1967 saw the first features films directed by women screened - Shirley Clarke's Portrait of Jason, Agnès Varda's Les Créatures and Věra Chytilová's Daisies.

Jean-Luc Godard's first English language film, One Plus One, was shown under the London Choices strand in 1968. After the screening, Godard punched producer Iain Quarrier in the face on stage for changes Quarrier made to the film's ending.

1970–1983
Ken Wlaschin became the festival director in February 1970 and expanded the size and diversity of the festival. His first festival ran 16 November to 2 December 1970 and featured 28 films, opening with Truffaut's L'Enfant sauvage and featuring Kurosawa's Dodes'ka-den and the world premiere of Anthony Friedman's Bartleby. A recently opened second screen at the NFT was also used. David Lynch's short film The Grandmother was also shown in 1970.

The 1971 festival ran 15 November to 1 December and was expanded to include a directors' section, featuring the premiere of Mike Leigh's feature film debut Bleak Moments. Between 13 and 29 November 1972, 44 films were screened. The 1974 festival opened 18 November and featured 60 films starting with the premiere of Peter Hall's Akenfield. The Texas Chain Saw Massacre was screened in a members-only screening due to it not being classified by the BBFC. Similar screenings were held for The Beast in 1975 and Salò, or the 120 Days of Sodom in 1977.

Newsfront directed by Phillip Noyce opened the 1978 festival on 14 November which ended 16 days later with Jack Gold's The Sailor's Return. The 1979 festival ran 15 November to 2 December, opening with Those Wonderful Movie Cranks directed by Jiří Menzel. The 1980 festival was held between 13–30 November, opening with Kurosawa's Kagemusha and closing with Martin Scorsese's Raging Bull.

The 25th festival opened on 4 November 1981 and featured 127 films and also expanded outside of London with 12 programmes playing around the country. The 1982 festival opened 11 November 1982 with 4 independent British films - Claude Whatham's The Captain's Doll, Peter Greenaway's The Draughtsman's Contract, Barney Platts-Mills' Hero and Mai Zetterling's Scrubbers - and closed 28 November.

Expansion
In 1984, Wlaschin's role as program director for the National Film Theatre (NFT) and festival director was split, with The Guardian film critic Derek Malcolm taking over as festival director, initially temporarily, and Sheila Whitaker as NFT program director. Malcolm expanded the festival to 8 theatres other than the NFT; introduced Festival on the Square, which showed more popular films; added a surprise film each year; and increased attendances, trying to change it from a festival for film buffs to one for the public. The 1984 festival opened with Gremlins at the NFT on 14 November and closed on 2 December with a gala presentation at the Dominion Theatre of a new print of the 1924 version of The Thief of Baghdad starring Douglas Fairbanks with the score composed and conducted by Carl Davis. It was the most popular festival to date with 57,000 tickets sold, and Malcolm was retained to organize the festival the following year.

The 1985 festival was expanded to feature 161 films and ran from 14 November to 1 December, opening with Akira Kurosawa's Ran  and closing with Michael Cimino's Year of the Dragon and Peter Greenaway's A Zed & Two Noughts. The best films of the festival were to be shown around 15 towns around the country after the event.

The films were grouped into regional categories. In 2009 these were: Galas and Special Screenings, Film on the Square, New British Cinema, French Revolutions, Cinema Europa, World Cinema, Experimenta, Treasures from the Archives, Short Cuts and Animation.

Since 1986, the festival has been "topped and tailed" by the opening and closing galas which have become major red carpet events in the London calendar. The opening and closing galas are often world, European, or UK premiere screenings, which take place in large venues in central London. They are attended by the cast and crew of the films and introduced by the festival director, the film's director or producers, and often the actors themselves.

The 30th edition of the festival in 1986 opened with Nicolas Roeg's Castaway and closed with Ken Russell's film Gothic (Daily Telegraph, October 10th 1986). The festival had a "post script" the next day on 1 December with a Royal charity performance of Labyrinth attended by Charles, Prince of Wales and Diana, Princess of Wales.

1987–1996
Sheila Whitaker, who had been the manager of the National Film Theatre, replaced Malcolm in 1987. The 1987 festival was the first to open at the Empire, Leicester Square on 11 November 1987. It was due to open with A Prayer for the Dying, a film about an IRA member but was pulled 2 days before the opening following the IRA's Remembrance Day bombing in Enniskillen on 8 November. The film was replaced with Dark Eyes. Most films were screened at either the Odeon West End or at BFI Southbank.

During her period as director, Whitaker continued to expand the festival. By the end of her tenure as director in 1996, the festival had grown to include screenings of over 200 films from around the world, more venues had been added, and more tickets were sold to non-BFI members. She also began the festival's practice of including newly restored films from the National Film Archive and overseas institutions.

The 1990 festival was held between 8-25 November and featured 180 films compared to 145 in the previous year. It opened with Peter Bogdanovich's Texasville and closed with Bernardo Bertolucci's The Sheltering Sky. It also featured the world premiere of Mike Leigh's Life Is Sweet. 

The 1991 festival was held between 6–21 November and was dedicated to David Lean, who had died earlier in the year. The festival opened with the world premiere of Mike Newell's Enchanted April and closed with the European premiere of Mark Peploe's debut film Afraid of the Dark.

In 1993, the Children's London Film Festival was incorporated into the main festival. The opening night film was the European premiere of James Ivory's The Remains of the Day on 4 November and closed on 21 November with Farewell My Concubine.

The 1994 festival opened on 3 November with the world premiere of Mary Shelley's Frankenstein directed by Kenneth Branagh and closed 20 November with Luc Besson's Léon: The Professional. A 12-film sidebar was added for Arabian and Middle Eastern films, in addition to sidebars for French and Asian films.