# The Daily News (Longview, Washington)

The Daily News is a newspaper covering Longview Kelso, Washington, and Cowlitz County, Washington in the United States. Apart from a brief period in the 1990s when, prior to ceasing publication, the Cowlitz County Advocate was published in Longview, the Daily News has been Longview's only newspaper since its inception.

History 
Robert A. Long, a lumber magnate, foundered both Longview and The Daily News as a Long-Bell Lumber Company daily in 1923. 

According to "R.A. Long's Planned City" by John McClelland Jr., McClelland Sr. purchased the paper from Long. 

Ted Natt and John Natt, grandsons of John M. McClelland Sr., sold the newspaper to Howard Publications in 1999, ending 76 years of McClelland-Natt family ownership. Lee Enterprises acquired the newspaper in 2002.

Starting June 27, 2023, the print edition of the newspaper will be reduced to three days a week: Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday. Also, the newspaper will transition from being delivered by a traditional newspaper delivery carrier to mail delivery by the U.S. Postal Service.

Pulitzer Prize
The Daily News covered the eruption of Mount St. Helens in 1980, and won the 1981 Pulitzer Prize for Local, General, or Spot Reporting, as well as the 1981 national Sigma Delta Chi Award. The Pulitzer committee specifically mentioned the photography of Roger A. Werth. A book written by the newspaper staff on the eruption became a New York Times bestseller. Following the death of the paper's publisher in a helicopter crash, the Associated Press established the regional Ted Natt Award for First Amendment journalism.

References

External links 
 
 Coverage of Mount St. Helens eruption
 History of The Daily News, from Lee Enterprises
 Roger Werth Oral History Interview

1923 establishments in Washington (state)
Daily newspapers published in the United States
Lee Enterprises publications
Longview, Washington
Newspapers published in Washington (state)
Newspapers established in 1923
Pulitzer Prize-winning newspapers