# Krasnoperekopsk

Yany Kapu (), until 2023 Krasnoperekopsk  is a town in Crimea. Following the 2014 annexation of Crimea, it was incorporated into Russia's Republic of Crimea, though the territory is recognised by a majority of countries as part of Ukraine within the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. It is the administrative center of Krasnoperekopsk Raion. Administratively is not a part of the raion (district) and incorporated separately as a town of regional significance. Population: 

It is located on the southern part of the Perekop Isthmus, on the shore of the , and about  from the Crimean capital, Simferopol. It lies on the Dzhankoy-Kherson railroad line (one of the two railroad lines connecting the Crimea and the rest of the continent).

History
The city was founded as Bromzavod () in 1932 as an industrial settlement for the bromine factory constructed near the  (Crimean-Tatar name: Tuzla gölü, Тузла голю, Lake Tuzla, "Salty lake").  In 1936, the settlement became known as Krasno-Perekopsk () in honor of the Bolshevik-siding forces who stormed Perekop in 1920. In 1964, the name was changed to Krasnoperekopsk, and in 1966, it received the status of a city.

On 12 May 2016, Ukrainian authorities renamed the city Yany Kapu, ; () as part of its decommunization efforts.  The renaming will be in effect when Ukraine take back control of Crimea.

Economy
 , a major manufacturer of sodium carbonate
 , manufactures bromine and bromine-based non-organic and organic compounds

Demographics

Geography

Climate
Krasnoperekopsk's climate is mostly dry and hot in the summer, and mild in the winter. The average temperature ranges from  in January, to  in July. The average precipitation is  per year.

International relations

Twin towns – Sister cities

Krasnoperekopsk is twinned with:
 Dzerzhinsky, Russia

Notes

References

External links

Official website  
Registration card at Verkhovna Rada
Krasnoperekopsk travel Guide in Russian

Cities in Crimea
Populated places established in the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic
Populated places established in 1932
1932 establishments in the Soviet Union
Cities of regional significance in Ukraine