# Holytown

Holytown (, ) is a village situated to the east of Bellshill and north of Motherwell in North Lanarkshire, Scotland. Most local amenities are shared with the adjacent villages of Carfin, Newarthill and New Stevenston which have a combined population of around 20,000 across the four localities.

History
The area grew on the back of the nearby coal mining industries in the 18th century. The roots of the town stretch back to at least the 17th Century, where records show that a meeting house was used for prayer services for the community. One old description of the town from the 19th century from the Ordnance Gazetteer of Scotland by Francis H. Groome, 1885 is as follows:

Holytown, a town in Bothwell parish, Lanarkshire,  E by N of Holytown Junction on the Caledonian railway,  SSE of Coatbridge, and 11 ESE of Glasgow. Surrounded by a well-worked part of the Lanarkshire mineral-field, and partaking largely in the industry and traffic connected with the working of the same, it experienced considerable increase of prosperity from the opening of the Cleland and Midcalder railway (1866), in result partly of through traffic on that line and partly of junction-communication with Motherwell.

It includes the suburb of New Stevenston,  SSW ; and has a post office, with money order, savings' bank, and telegraph departments, a branch of the Clydesdale Bank, 3 insurance agencies, gasworks, a quoad sacra parish church, a Free church, and has 2 public schools. The quoad sacra parish is in the presbytery of Hamilton and synod of Glasgow and Ayr ; its minister's stipend is £120. 
Pop. of town 
(1836) 755, 
(1861) 1135, 
(1871) 2197, 
(1881) 2480, of whom 1048 were in New Stevenston ; 
of q. s. parish 
(1871) 10,099, 
(1881) 10,449.—Ord. Sur., sh. 31, 1867.

Reports of living conditions showed that the residents of the town lived in tough conditions in the 19th century.  In 1913, one report describing housing in Jerviston Square said that the housing "may be taken as an example of houses that are very near the border line of the habitable standard".

Mining work was a dangerous life with long hours and accidents resulting in death were not uncommon in Lanarkshire. Life was harsh, but forged the character of the working class mining community in the face of hardship, especially the politics of Keir Hardie, the founder of the Labour Party in the UK.

The Holytown Miners' Association was a local union formed in the 1840s. In 1847 the union attempted to restrict output, to combat a 1s (5p) per day wage reduction proposed by the owners. The owners imposed a 3-month 'lockout', which ended in defeat for the union. In 1855 the union merged with the Scottish Coal and Iron-stone Miners' Protective Association. According to the Board of Trade Reports there was another Association of the same name formed in the early 1890s. With an estimated membership of 200 for both 1894 and 1895 it became a branch of the Lanarkshire Miners' County Union in 1896. 

Many have drifted away since the early 1990s due to the decline in the coal industries. The bulk of people in the town are now employed in blue-collar roles, including manufacturing and retail. The establishment nearby of the EuroTerminal hi-tech industrial estate in the 1990s did not bring a huge boom in jobs as expected. Other well-known local employers include Honeywell, a large electronics firm based in the Newhouse industrial estate.

Notable people from Holytown include the politician Keir Hardie, World War I nurse Jean Aitken Bell, who won medals for having served in Serbia and the footballers Harry McShane and Matt Balunas. Holytown was also the birthplace of James Williamson, noted Scottish civil engineer involved with many of the Hydro-electric power schemes of the 1930-1950s.

Description
The population of Holytown was 5,483 (2001 Census); the town is approximately 422 hectares (2001 Census) in size. There are five or six public houses and two primary schools as well as two main places of worship.

The main backbone of the town is Main Street, which stretches across the north of the town from east to west upon which are the numerous shops and pubs. The town has lost various services with Clydesdale Bank having moved out of the town (the premises are now a dentists) whilst certain other services such as the petrol station closed around the late 1970s. There is no longer a Post Office (with the premises most recently occupied by a desserts store), the nearest such services are located in New Stevenston and Bellshill. The video shops that were in the town closed in the mid-1990s. Hairdressers and barber shops, and a vets still ply their trade in the town.

For general shopping most go to the nearest local towns, especially Bellshill. Motherwell and Hamilton are used for clothes and gifts shopping with their larger shopping centres, or for a big day out families head into Glasgow which is convenient to reach with the M8 motorway and public transport.

The community centre is used for various activities all year round, for dances and larger get-togethers. As of September 2009, the future of Holytown Community Centre is under threat of closure by North Lanarkshire Council although residents intend to fight for the Centre to remain open.

A halal butchers was opened in the late 1990s to help cater for the Muslims in the districts.

Holytown railway station (which is actually located in New Stevenston) has a direct link into Glasgow and Edinburgh and the approximate time from Holytown to Glasgow is 20–30 minutes by car or train, and 45 minutes to Edinburgh. The station (opened in 1869) is not conveniently located for many Holytown residents, so buses into Motherwell or to Glasgow (or even a bus to Motherwell for the train to Glasgow) is a more usual choice.

A sports centre was built in the early 1990s and named "The Keir Hardie Leisure Centre" in honour of local hero James Keir Hardie. The Centre's gym (two rooms) and indoor 5-a-side football pitch are regularly used.

In 1976, the Michael Sherry Senior Citizen Centre was built for use by the senior citizens in the immediate area. It has been in continual use since, and is primarily used by the senior citizens but also by the community a like. Activities taking place include, lunch clubs, dance classes, craft classes, bowling clubs, bingo nights, church activities, community councils and MSP surgeries.

In the 2010s, a large new housing development, Torrance Park (featuring an adjacent 18-hole golf course of the same name, designed by Dave Thomas) was established to the south-east of the village, off the main road to Newarthill. Although referred to as Holytown in documentation, the development shares the ML1 5 postcode with Newarthill and is counted alongside that town in some statistics.

Religion
The town is historically Protestant (Presbyterian/Church of Scotland), and the character of the town remains so.  On the far east of the town on Edinburgh Road stands Holytown Parish Church, possibly the oldest building in the town which is still used on a daily basis.  The original church was founded in the 17th century which helped to set the roots of the town.  The current building was built and opened in 1837.

There is also a thriving community of people of Irish Catholic descent, who have long set up a Roman Catholic school with a church in the town, Christ the King Church.  The church and the school are both on the main street.  The church was founded 1975 on the site of the public primary school which had moved to a new building.

A small number of Muslims began to move to Lanarkshire in the late 1960s, and a few families of Pakistani origin moved to Holytown in the 1970s.  For prayers, a room above one of the shops on the main street (across from the Christ the King Church) was used as a small makeshift mosque for Muslims throughout Lanarkshire during the early to mid-1980s (the mosque was the first in Lanarkshire) before it moved to Carfin. In those days, for Eid (Islam's holiest religious annual day), Christ the King Church on the main street used to help and provide their halls to the small Lankarkshire Muslim community for use for the day. In the mid-1980s, the initial group of people who formed the mosque (led by Ghulam Saqlain Siddiquie who was a long-time resident in Holytown) formed the Lanarkshire Muslim Welfare Society.  Ghulam Saqlain Siddiquie was awarded an MBE in January 2014 for his work in creating racial harmony over more than 30 years. Since the mid-1990s there has been a halal butchers to cater for the area.

Football
The town has had its own teams representing the area, as listed below. There are still various small amateur teams playing in local regional leagues at all ages representing the community.

One notable footballer from Holytown was Harry McShane (1920-2012) who won the Football League First Division in England with Manchester United in 1951–52 and then played for various clubs in and around the north-west of England. He was