# Pennsylvania in the American Revolution

Pennsylvania was the site of many key events associated with the American Revolution and American Revolutionary War. The city of Philadelphia, then capital of the Thirteen Colonies and the largest city in the colonies, was a gathering place for the Founding Fathers who discussed, debated, developed, and ultimately implemented many of the acts, including signing the Declaration of Independence, that inspired and  launched the revolution and the quest for independence from the British Empire.

Founding Father Robert Morris said, "You will consider Philadelphia, from its centrical situation, the extent of its commerce, the number of its artificers, manufactures and other circumstances, to be to the United States what the heart is to the human body in circulating the blood."

The American Revolution included both the political and social development of the Thirteen Colonies of British America, and the Revolutionary War. John Adams wrote to Thomas Jefferson in 1815: "What do we mean by the revolution? The war? That was no part of the revolution. It was only an effect and consequence of it. The revolution was in the minds of the people, and this was effected, from 1760 to 1775, in the course of fifteen years before a drop of blood was drawn at Lexington. The records of thirteen legislatures, the pamphlets, newspapers in all the colonies ought be consulted, during that period, to ascertain the steps by which the public opinion was enlightened and informed concerning the authority of parliament over the colonies."

Military
 First Troop Philadelphia City Cavalry - The oldest continuously serving unit in the United States military
 Pennsylvania Line of the Continental Army
 Pennsylvania Militia Units
 Pennsylvania Navy

Government
Pennsylvania Constitution of 1776
Pennsylvania Provincial Conference
Supreme Executive Council of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania

Key events

 Philadelphia Tea Party (October 16, 1773)
 First Continental Congress (September 5 to October 26, 1774)
 Continental Association created (October 20, 1774)
 Petition to the King ratified (October 25, 1774)
 Second Continental Congress (convened on May 10, 1775)
 Hanna's town resolves (May 16, 1775)
 Olive Branch Petition (July 1775)
 Declaration of the Causes and Necessity of Taking Up Arms (July 1775)
 Continental Marines formed by act of Congress (November 10, 1775) with the following decree:

 Pennsylvania Provincial Conference (June 18–25, 1776)
 The Lee Resolution (also known as "The Resolution for Independence") (July 2, 1776)
 Declaration of Independence (1776)
 George Washington's crossing of the Delaware River (December 25, 1776) to attack the Crown Forces' German auxiliaries at Trenton. The decisive American victory was a significant morale boost to the demoralized, shrinking American army that was teetering on collapse due to impending enlistment expirations. The American victory at Trenton, together with American victories at the Battle of the Assunpink Creek and the Battle of Princeton helped inspire the Patriots and keep the Continental Army intact.
 Continental Congress adopts the 13-star US flag: "Resolved, That the flag of the thirteen United States be thirteen stripes, alternate red and white; that the union be thirteen stars, white in a blue field, representing a new constellation." (June 14, 1777)
 Philadelphia campaign (1777–1778)
 Conway Cabal (1777–1778)
 Battle of Brandywine (September 11, 1777) - the largest battle of the American Revolution by number of troops engaged, and the longest single-day battle of the war, with continuous fighting for 11 hours
 During the battle, famed British army marksman Patrick Ferguson, leading the Experimental Rifle Corps equipped with fast breech-loading Ferguson rifles, had the chance to shoot a prominent American officer, accompanied by another in distinctive hussar dress, but decided not to do so, as the man had his back to him (Ferguson) and was unaware of his presence. A surgeon told Ferguson in the hospital that some American casualties had said that General Washington had been in the area at the time. Ferguson wrote that, even if the officer were the general, he did not regret his decision. The officer's identity remains uncertain; historians suggest that the aide in hussar dress might indicate the senior officer was Count Casimir Pulaski.
 Brandywine was the first battlefield command of Gilbert du Motier, Marquis de Lafayette. The American retreat was well-organized, largely due to his efforts. Although wounded, he created a rally point that allowed for a more orderly retreat before being treated for his wound.  Lafayette returned to visit Brandywine during his Grand tour of the United States in 1824–25, after which he was returned to France aboard the USS Brandywine.
 In addition to Lafayette, Polish Count Casimir Pulaski was another foreign officer present at Brandywine — his first military engagement against the British. When the Continental Army troops began to yield, he reconnoitered with Washington's bodyguard of about 30 men, and reported that the enemy were endeavoring to cut off the line of retreat. Washington ordered him to collect, as many as possible, the scattered troops who came his way, and employ them according to his discretion to secure the retreat of the army. His subsequent charge averted a disastrous defeat of the Continental Army cavalry, earning him fame in America and saved the life of George Washington. As a result, on September 15, 1777, on the orders of Congress, Washington made Pulaski a brigadier general in the Continental Army cavalry. At that point, the cavalry was only a few hundred men strong organized into four regiments. These men were scattered among numerous infantry formations, and used primarily for scouting duties. Pulaski immediately began work on reforming the cavalry, and wrote the first regulations for the formation.
 Battle of the Clouds (September 16, 1777) - an aborted engagement in the area surrounding present day Malvern, Pennsylvania. After the American defeat at the Battle of Brandywine, the British Army remained encamped near Chadds Ford. When British commander William Howe was informed that the weakened American force was less than ten miles (16 km) away, he decided to press for another decisive victory. George Washington learned of Howe's plans, and prepared for battle. Before the two armies could fully engage, a torrential downpour ensued. Significantly outnumbered, and with tens of thousands of cartridges ruined by the rain, Washington opted to retreat. Bogged down by rain and mud, the British allowed Washington and his army to withdraw. The storm, which historian Thomas McGuire describes as "a classic nor'easter," raged well into the next day.
 Battle of Paoli (Also known as the Paoli Massacre) (September 20, 1777)
 Siege of Fort Mifflin (September 26 to November 16, 1777)
 Explosion and destruction of HMS Augusta - an explosion that smashed windows in Philadelphia and was heard 30 miles (48 km) away (October 22, 1777)
 Battle of Germantown (October 4, 1777)
 Articles of Confederation and Perpetual Union created (November 15, 1777)
 Battle of White Marsh (December 5–8, 1777)
 Battle of Matson's Ford (December 11, 1777)
  Valley Forge winter encampment of the Continental Army (December 1777 to June 1778)
 Battle of Crooked Billet (May 1, 1778)
 The Meschianza (May 18, 1778) - an elaborate fête given in honor of British General Sir William Howe in Philadelphia on May 18, 1778
 Battle of Barren Hill (May 20, 1778)
 Carlisle Peace Commission (1778)
 The Big Runaway (June and July 1778)
 Wyoming Valley battle and massacre (July 3, 1778)
 Treaty of Fort Pitt (September 17, 1778) - the first written treaty between the new United States of America and any American Indians—the Lenape (Delaware Indians) in this case
 An Act for the Gradual Abolition of Slavery (March 1, 1780) passed by the Pennsylvania legislature - one of the first attempts by a government in the Western Hemisphere to begin an abolition of slavery
 Sugarloaf Massacre (September 11, 1780)
 Pennsylvania Line Mutiny (January 1, 1781)
 Convention Army moved to Pennsylvania in 1781 (1781 to 1783) - an army of British and allied troops captured after the Battles of Saratoga. They were held prisoner at Camp Security in York County, PA.  Located in present-day Springettsbury Township.
 Pennsylvania Mutiny of 1783 (June 20, 1783)

Key historical sites, museums, and institutions

Battlefields 
 Battle of Brandywine, parts of the vast battlefield, largely on private property, are preserved as municipal parks, trail easements, and preservation easements:
 Birmingham Hill (Chadds Township), established in 2010, the footpath at Birmingham Hill allows public access to a portion of the Brandywine Battlefield. The Footpath follows a 1.1 mile trail.
 Birmingham Friends Meetinghouse, across the street from the Birmingham Hill trail. During the Battle of Brandywine, British forces attempted to flank the Contin