# Lausanne Collegiate School

Lausanne Collegiate School (; previously Lausanne School for Girls) is an independent, coeducational college-placement school in Memphis, Tennessee.  With grades for pre-kindergarten through twelfth grade, the school has a sizable international population, with foreign nationals comprising  of the student body, representing 68 different countries.

With a -year history beginning in 1926, the previously single-sex boarding school has become a co-educational day school with grades Pre-K12.  An International Baccalaureate (IB) school since 2009, Lausanne adopted the program for all grades in 2018.  In 2017 it partnered with Fujian's Xiamen #1 School to open another fully-IB school in Xiamen, China.

The international school has adopted contemporarily-new methods and attitudes throughout the years.  The current campus has specially-designed playground equipment, supports several academic and athletic teams, and was a filming location for 1993's The Firm.

History

Originally a single-sex school, the Lausanne School for Girls first opened its doors in 1926.  At its outset, the school was jointly managed by Emma DeSaussure Jett, Sophia Alexander Gardner, Bessie Statler, and Florence Goyer Taylor.  The school was first located at 1649 Central Avenue, in a home previously called the "Cary House"; The Commercial Appeal called the building especially suited to schooling with the possibility of expanding it in the future.  Lausanne began accepting both sexes of students for the 1966–67 academic year.

Boarding
Lausanne credited a Mrs. L. K. Thompson for the school's history of boarding students.  Thompson, a "benefactress whose name was almost synonymous with the school", had friends in Little Rock, Arkansas, who wanted their children enrolled at Lausanne.  After putting up the girls in her attic, similar demand led the school to construct a dormitory.

Lausanne's co-educational transition was also the heyday of its boarding program, whose numbers hovered around 100.  The 1970s saw a decline in demand for boarding schools, and when Lausanne's number dropped, some dormitories were transformed into classrooms.  By the 1990–91 academic year, Lausanne had 285 students and only 18 boarders—four of whom were from East Asia; in early 1992, it was the only girls' boarding program in Shelby County, Tennessee.  Six months later, with only eight boarders, Lausanne ended its history of boarding; four seniors were diverted to private homes for their last year of school.  Though it was estimated that 18 boarders would be financially sufficient to re-board students, Headmaster Elder was doubtful of the program's odds for resurrection.

Leadership
In July 1991, Lausanne headmaster Logan Malone resigned his position to join the Mid-South Foundation for Medical Care.  For the 1991–92 academic year, board member Toni Watson served in Malone's stead while a full-time headmaster was headhunted.  On July 1, 1992, New Orleans native George B. Elder (born ) took the top spot at Lausanne.  Elder expressed interest in broadening awareness of Lausanne, shedding its "school for girls" image, and increasing enrollment.  The Lausanne board of directors expressed excitement about Elder's experience (headmastering four previous schools), "his fund-raising ability, which is always a consideration for a private school; his attitude; his interest in athletics and the theater. He just has it all."  Elder's first year at Lausanne saw 64% increased enrollment.

Academics
A private school in Memphis, Tennessee,  Lausanne was the number one college placement school in Shelby County, Tennessee.

Specialty programming

International Baccalaureate
Lausanne has been an International Baccalaureate school since December 7, 2009.

Beginning in 2018, all Lausanne students from pre-kindergarten up began participating in the International Baccalaureate Diploma Programme (IBDP), a curriculum where, instead of focusing on students regurgitating correct answers, "the teacher's role is about helping the students come up with the right question".  Compared with college-level work, Lausanne's admissions director—Laura Trott—said that the IBDP is "not about just one class or checking off one box [...] It's really understanding that all those strong reading and writing skills tie in with all those mathematical skills and critical-thinking skills."

Meditation
Starting the 2012–13 academic year, middle school students aged 10–14 were offered the opportunity to meditate during their 10–15 minute recess break.  Middle school head teacher Greg Graber started the program—called "mental recess"—to help students relieve stress, perform better on standardized tests, and disconnect from their mobile computing devices.

Admissions
Prospective students must take an exam and score within a certain percentage, and make it through an interview process.  In 1992, annual tuition could run as high as .

Faculty and staff

Administration

Stuart McCathie is the tenth headmaster of Lausanne, having taken the position in July 2005.  An English native, McCathie has a bachelor's degree in education from Lancaster University and a master's degree in school administration from the University of North Carolina at Wilmington.  , McCathie was the fifth-highest-paid private school administrator in Memphis, Tennessee with a salary of , according to the Memphis Business Journal.

Teachers
, Barry Gilmore taught English and international studies.  A published author with Heinemann, Gilmore has written on engaging students in discussing English literature (How to Get Students Discussing Books—And Much More, January 2006), which was favorably-reviewed by the Journal of Adolescent & Adult Literacy.

Student body
For the 2021–2022 academic year, Lausanne had 875 students enrolled (280 in the lower school, 230 in the middle school, and 365 in the upper school).  Discounting parents, Lausanne students are from 68 different nations:

 

In summer 2006, Lausane developed its own house system for middle-schoolers; the sub-units were named Cottingham, Lendenwood, Massey, and Monmouth.

In 2020, arising from the widespread Black Lives Matter movement, concerns about inequity, and the 2020–21 United States racial unrest, Lausanne formed a task force with the purpose of creating an inclusive environment at the school.  Lausanne, whose "student population was nearly 50% people of color — and among the highest percentages for a Memphis independent school", was spurred by alumni who felt the school wasn't doing enough to hire non-whites (who by February 2021 only amounted to 11% of the staff), and needed to only contract with similarly inclusive vendors.

Extracurriculars

Academic

Lausanne's National Science Bowl team won state in 2015, and came in second to Knoxville, Tennessee's Cedar Springs Homeschool in 2016.

Athletic

As of 1992, Lausanne fielded boys' athletic teams in basketball, golf, track and field, and tennis.  The school also had several girls' teams.

American football
Capitalizing on its still-increasing numbers of male students, Lausanne started its American football program with the 1992–93 academic year.  By July 29, 16 boys had already applied for the new team.  The team won their seasons in 2013 and 2014, and made their inaugural visit to the playoffs in 2015, losing to state champ St. George's Independent School "in the Division 2-A quarterfinals to finish 8-4."  In 2016, Lausanne had three players being scouted by the United States Military Academy and Naval Academy.

Campus

Lausanne's Memphis campus has  of land, and its first buildings were built in the 1960s.  In 2008, Lausanne was a recipient of an American Academy of Dermatology grant for the construction of "shade structures" to protect students from damaging ultraviolet radiation.

International Outdoor Discovery Center
When planning to replace an existing playground for its lower school students (pre-kindergarten through fourth grade) in the campus' front, Lausanne desired not only a globally-themed installation, but also an enhancement to the school's curb appeal.  Lausanne contracted with Landscape Structures after that company best-translated Lausanne's themes into a real-world proposal.  The final design was partly the contribution of the Lausanne graduating-class of 2024.

Groundbreaking happened in early summer 2015, and was finished by that August.  Featuring replicas of Big Ben, the Eiffel Tower, and the Taj Mahal, the International Outdoor Discovery Center (IODC) has 14 different structures representing international locales laid out on a surface designed after a Rand McNally world map.  Lausanne told the Memphis Business Journal that "the playground structures provide 61 individual play events with 95 themed custom elements, 70 of which are unique to the site at Lausanne".

Director of operations at Lausanne, Stewart Crais, praised the IODC after its opening, expecting the space to last at least 20 years.  The playground replaced by the IODC was rei