# Christ Church (Moscow, Idaho)

Christ Church is a Calvinist church in Moscow, Idaho, pastored by Douglas Wilson, and a member of the Communion of Reformed Evangelical Churches. The congregation has received international coverage for its views, which include advocating for a theocracy, and its desire to make Moscow a "Christian town". It has formal and informal affiliations with a number of ministries, including a three-year ministerial training program (Greyfriars Hall), a private accredited college (New Saint Andrews), a campus ministry (Collegiate Reformed Fellowship), and formerly a publishing operation and magazine (Canon Press, Credenda/Agenda). The church is estimated to have between 900 and 2,000 members.

Beliefs
Christ Church is a Calvinist church, holding conservative views. Its ministers are proponents of postmillennialism and have been described as holding to a form of dominion theology.  It is known for its promotion of Christian education and biblical courtship, and for its opposition to liberalism and feminism as being contrary to the Christian faith. Christ Church also holds to biblical inerrancy and adheres to the Westminster Standards, the Three Forms of Unity, and the Apostles' and Nicene Creeds. It is a charter member of the Communion of Reformed Evangelical Churches.

Affiliated organizations

New Saint Andrews College
New Saint Andrews College is a classical Christian liberal arts college with numerous connections to Christ Church. Ben Merkle, an elder at Christ Church, is president. Studies at NSA include "the languages, history, philosophy, and culture of classical antiquity and Western tradition in the light of Scripture".

Greyfriars' Hall
Greyfriars' Hall is a ministerial training program affiliated with Christ Church.

Bakwé Mission
The Bakwé Mission is the church's foreign mission ministry to the Bakwé people of southwest Côte d'Ivoire. It consists mainly of translating scripture for the Bakwé Church, as well as training teachers to teach reading and writing to the Bakwé people.

Logos School 
The Logos School is nondenominational classical Christian school with numerous connections to Christ Church, which regularly promotes Classical Christian education. Logos School is organized as a limited liability company.

Canon Press 
Canon Press is a publisher with connections to Christ Church.

Controversies 
The church has drawn attention for its vocal opposition, and active resistance to federal and local restrictions meant to halt the spread of COVID-19. The church's head pastor, Douglas Wilson, has posted on his blog and on YouTube to call on his followers to "resist openly, in concert with any others in your same position", which he said would constitute "an example of a free people refusing to go along with their own enslavement". Wilson's remarks, which also warned "we are not yet in a hot civil war, with shooting and all, but we are in a cold war/civil war", drew condemnation from a number of other Evangelical leaders. Wilson has also drawn controversy for co-authoring the book Southern Slavery as it Was, which described slavery in the Antebellum South as more benign than usually portrayed. Wilson has denied the accusation that he supports slavery, writing on his blog, "Am I a defender of the system of Southern slavery as it existed prior to the Civil War? No, I am not. This is a false charge."

2020 anti-mask protests
In late September 2020, Christ Church organized and promoted two anti-mask protests at Moscow's City Hall. The protests consisted of members of the church and local community gathering mask-less at City Hall and singing psalms and hymns to protest Moscow's mandatory mask policy which required people to wear a mask in public places or at large gatherings. These protests occurred on Wednesday, September 23 and Friday, September 25. At the Wednesday psalm sing/protest about 150 people showed up and five people were cited and three were arrested with the most notable arrestee being 2020 Latah County Commissioner Candidate and Christ Church deacon Gabriel Rench. At the second psalm sing/protest on Friday, September 25, the protesters were joined by counter-protesters who beat drums to try to drown out the singing. About 400 protesters showed up and no one was arrested. Charges against Gabriel Rench were later dismissed.

In February 2023, U.S. District Court Judge Morrison C. England Jr. ruled that "the City indisputably erred in interpreting its own Code", and that the church members ought never to have been arrested in the first place, since the city ordinances explicitly exempted both religious and protest activities.

Handling of sexual abuse 
Christ Church ministers have garnered widespread criticism for their handling of instances of sexual abuse within the church's congregation. Head pastor Douglas Wilson publicly asked for leniency in 2005 when Steven Sitler, a student at New Saint Andrews College, was convicted of sex offenses involving children; and following the student's release from prison, Wilson married Sitler to a woman introduced to him by a former church elder.  After the wedding, a judge ruled Sitler must be chaperoned around his infant son, after he admitted to feeling sexual stimulation resulting from contact with the baby. Wilson has been criticized for his handling of the abuse case and for marrying the couple. Responding to allegations that he supported Sitler's actions, Wilson wrote, "My role was to encourage the father who discovered it to report Steven to the authorities immediately, and in subsequent counseling with Steven, to require him to confess to the crimes he had committed that had gone undetected."

In 2005, Greyfriar's Hall student Jamin Wright, then in his mid-20s, was put on trial following allegations of a sexual relationship with 14-year-old Natalie Greenfield. Pastor Douglas Wilson reportedly asked investigators for leniency and testified to the judge in the case that the relationship between Wright and the accuser was a secret parent-arranged courtship. Ultimately, Wright was found guilty of "injury to a child". In 2013, Wright was again arrested, and convicted of domestic battery. Greenfield subsequently accused Wilson of having sided with Wright, but later publicly apologized, writing, "I want to state publicly that I have sought the forgiveness of Douglas Wilson, and that he has extended it to me. As far as the two of us are concerned, the public controversy between us is now over. I sought his forgiveness for treating him and his church community as my enemy, and for blaming him for things he had nothing to do with."

In September 2021, Vice Media published an article documenting allegations of sexual assault from a dozen victims. The article interviewed several former members of the church who claimed that "women are told they must defer to church leaders and cannot say 'no' to their husbands, men are taught to strictly control their homes, and those who speak out can be isolated and harassed". One former church member, and student at the Christ Church-affiliated New Saint Andrews College, told Vice that she felt compelled by the church to marry her boyfriend from New Saint Andrews, despite the constant rape and abuse she claims she suffered. Her wedding was officiated by the church's pastor, Douglas Wilson. The woman said that other wives in the church reported that marital rape was common, and that when she went to church leaders to protest, they told her that a wife is not allowed to say 'no'. She reported that when she eventually divorced her husband and left the church, her car was repeatedly vandalized, and she received online abuse from church members. Pastor Douglas Wilson responded to article saying that it was slanderous and inaccurate, writing that "Every Christian leader, pastor, board member, writer, thought-influencer, or teacher who read that Vice article and then publicly voiced their solidarity or sympathy with it—in any way, shape, or form—has disqualified themselves ... they might as well step down now before the methods and procedures they have internalized and endorsed come back around when it is time to devour them."

A number of additional allegations stemming from anonymous sources have been documented on Christian blogs and YouTube channels.

Local influence 
Dating back to 2019, the church's leader, Douglas Wilson, has stated that the church aims to "make Moscow a Christian town", and favors "theocracy" as opposed to "civil governments, [which] are in necessary degrees satanic, demonic, and influenced by the god of this world, who is the devil". In a November 2021 investigation, The Guardian found that "Church figures have browbeaten elected officials over Covid restrictions, built powerful institutions in parallel to secular government, harassed perceived opponents, and accumulated land and businesses in pursuit of a long-term goal of transforming America into a nation ruled according to its own, ultra-conservative moral precepts". Said parallel