# Binary relation

In mathematics, a binary relation associates elements of one set, called the domain, with elements of another set, called the codomain.  A binary relation over sets  and  is a new set of ordered pairs  consisting of elements  from  and  from . It is a generalization of the more widely understood idea of a unary function. It encodes the common concept of relation: an element  is related to an element , if and only if the pair  belongs to the set of ordered pairs that defines the binary relation. A binary relation is the most studied special case  of an -ary relation over sets , which is a subset of the Cartesian product 

An example of a binary relation is the "divides" relation over the set of prime numbers  and the set of integers , in which each prime  is related to each integer  that is a multiple of , but not to an integer that is not a multiple of . In this relation, for instance, the prime number 2 is related to numbers such as −4, 0, 6, 10, but not to 1 or 9, just as the prime number 3 is related to 0, 6, and 9, but not to 4 or 13.

Binary relations are used in many branches of mathematics to model a wide variety of concepts. These include, among others:
 the "is greater than", "is equal to", and "divides" relations in arithmetic;
 the "is congruent to" relation in geometry;
 the "is adjacent to" relation in graph theory;
 the "is orthogonal to" relation in linear algebra.

A function may be defined as a special kind of binary relation. Binary relations are also heavily used in computer science.

A binary relation over sets  and  is an element of the power set of  Since the latter set is ordered by inclusion (⊆), each relation has a place in the lattice of subsets of  A binary relation is called a homogeneous relation when X = Y. A binary relation is also called a heterogeneous relation when it is not necessary that X = Y.

Since relations are sets, they can be manipulated using set operations, including union, intersection, and complementation, and satisfying the laws of an algebra of sets. Beyond that, operations like the converse of a relation and the composition of relations are available, satisfying the laws of a calculus of relations, for which there are textbooks by Ernst Schröder, Clarence Lewis, and Gunther Schmidt. A deeper analysis of relations involves decomposing them into subsets called , and placing them in a complete lattice.

In some systems of axiomatic set theory, relations are extended to classes, which are generalizations of sets. This extension is needed for, among other things, modeling the concepts of "is an element of" or "is a subset of" in set theory, without running into logical inconsistencies such as Russell's paradox.

The terms , dyadic relation and two-place relation are synonyms for binary relation, though some authors use the term "binary relation" for any subset of a Cartesian product  without reference to  and , and reserve the term "correspondence" for a binary relation with reference to  and .

Definition 
Given sets X and Y, the Cartesian product  is defined as  and its elements are called ordered pairs.

A  R over sets X and Y is a subset of  The set X is called the  or  of R, and the set Y the  or  of R. In order to specify the choices of the sets X and Y, some authors define a  or  as an ordered triple , where G is a subset of  called the  of the binary relation. The statement  reads "x is R-related to y" and is denoted by xRy. The  or  of R is the set of all x such that xRy for at least one y. The codomain of definition, ,  or  of R is the set of all y such that xRy for at least one x. The  of R is the union of its domain of definition and its codomain of definition.

When  a binary relation is called a  (or ). To emphasize the fact that X and Y are allowed to be different, a binary relation is also called a heterogeneous relation.

In a binary relation, the order of the elements is important; if  then yRx can be true or false independently of xRy. For example, 3 divides 9, but 9 does not divide 3.

Operations

Union 

If R and S are binary relations over sets X and Y then  is the  of R and S over X and Y.

The identity element is the empty relation. For example,  is the union of < and =, and  is the union of > and =.

Intersection 
If R and S are binary relations over sets X and Y then  is the  of R and S over X and Y.

The identity element is the universal relation. For example, the relation "is divisible by 6" is the intersection of the relations "is divisible by 3" and "is divisible by 2".

Composition 

If R is a binary relation over sets X and Y, and S is a binary relation over sets Y and Z then  (also denoted by ) is the  of R and S over X and Z.

The identity element is the identity relation. The order of R and S in the notation  used here agrees with the standard notational order for composition of functions. For example, the composition (is parent of)(is mother of) yields (is maternal grandparent of), while the composition (is mother of)(is parent of) yields (is grandmother of). For the former case, if x is the parent of y and y is the mother of z, then x is the maternal grandparent of z.

Converse 

If R is a binary relation over sets X and Y then  is the  of R over Y and X.

For example,  is the converse of itself, as is  and  and  are each other's converse, as are  and  A binary relation is equal to its converse if and only if it is symmetric.

Complement 

If R is a binary relation over sets X and Y then  (also denoted by  or ) is the  of R over X and Y.

For example,  and  are each other's complement, as are  and   and  and  and  and, for total orders, also  and  and  and 

The complement of the converse relation  is the converse of the complement: 

If  the complement has the following properties:
 If a relation is symmetric, then so is the complement.
 The complement of a reflexive relation is irreflexive—and vice versa.
 The complement of a strict weak order is a total preorder—and vice versa.

Restriction 

If R is a binary homogeneous relation over a set X and S is a subset of X then  is the  of R to S over X.

If R is a binary relation over sets X and Y and if S is a subset of X then  is the  of R to S over X and Y.

If R is a binary relation over sets X and Y and if S is a subset of Y then  is the  of R to S over X and Y.

If a relation is reflexive, irreflexive, symmetric, antisymmetric, asymmetric, transitive, total, trichotomous, a partial order, total order, strict weak order, total preorder (weak order), or an equivalence relation, then so too are its restrictions.

However, the transitive closure of a restriction is a subset of the restriction of the transitive closure, i.e., in general not equal. For example, restricting the relation "x is parent of y" to females yields the relation "x is mother of the woman y"; its transitive closure does not relate a woman with her paternal grandmother. On the other hand, the transitive closure of "is parent of" is "is ancestor of"; its restriction to females does relate a woman with her paternal grandmother.

Also, the various concepts of completeness (not to be confused with being "total") do not carry over to restrictions. For example, over the real numbers a property of the relation  is that every non-empty subset  with an upper bound in  has a least upper bound (also called supremum) in  However, for the rational numbers this supremum is not necessarily rational, so the same property does not hold on the restriction of the relation  to the rational numbers.

A binary relation R over sets X and Y is said to be  a relation S over X and Y, written  if R is a subset of S, that is, for all  and  if xRy, then xSy. If R is contained in S and S is contained in R, then R and S are called  written R = S. If R is contained in S but S is not contained in R, then R is said to be  than S, written  For example, on the rational numbers, the relation  is smaller than  and equal to the composition

Matrix representation 
Binary relations over sets X and Y can be represented algebraically by logical matrices indexed by X and Y with entries in the Boolean semiring (addition corresponds to OR and multiplication to AND) where matrix addition corresponds to union of relations, matrix multiplication corresponds to composition of relations (of a relation over X and Y and a relation over Y and Z), the Hadamard product corresponds to intersection of relations, the zero matrix corresponds to the empty relation, and the matrix of ones corresponds to the universal relation. Homogeneous relations (when ) form a matrix semiring (indeed, a matrix semialgebra over the Boolean semiring) where the identity matrix corresponds to the identity relation.

Examples

Special types of binary relations 

Some important types of binary relations R over sets X and Y are listed below.

Uniqueness properties:
 Injective (also called left-unique): for all  and all  if  and  then . For such a relation, {Y} is called a primary key of R. For example, the green