# The Amazing Race 11

The Amazing Race 11 (also known as The Amazing Race: All-Stars) is the eleventh season of the American reality competition show The Amazing Race. Hosted by Phil Keoghan, it featured eleven teams of two, ten returning teams from previous editions and a dating couple with members from two teams that had competed against each other, competing in a race around the world in order to win US$1,000,000. This season visited six continents and nine countries and traveled over . Starting in Palmetto Bay, Florida, outside of Miami, racers traveled through Ecuador, Chile, Argentina, Mozambique, Tanzania, Poland, Malaysia, Hong Kong, Macau, Guam, and Hawaii before finishing in San Francisco. The season premiered on CBS on February 18, 2007, and the season finale aired on May 6, 2007.

Dating couple Eric Sanchez and Danielle Turner, who had competed on opposing teams on The Amazing Race 9, were the winners of this season, while beauty queens Dustin Seltzer and Kandice Pelletier from The Amazing Race 10 finished in second place, and cousins Charla Faddoul and Mirna Hindoyan from The Amazing Race 5 finished in third.

Production

Development and filming

As early as 2004, there had been talk about an all-star edition of The Amazing Race, with speculation that it would occur during the eighth season, just as it had with Survivor. These rumors were fueled by reports that season 4 winner Reichen Lehmkuhl had been invited to appear in a future all-star race. Speculation continued for the next few years, particularly after CBS aired all-star editions of their two other reality competition series, Survivor and Big Brother. On September 28, 2006, CBS ordered an 11th season of The Amazing Race. In November 2006, the network officially acknowledged that an all-star edition was in production. Host Phil Keoghan was originally skeptical that an all-star edition was feasible. Over time, Keoghan felt that "as we got more and more really good teams, it just seemed like it had to happen."

This season traveled a little over , across thirty cities and six continents and was the second season (after season 5) to visit every habitable continent. The new locales visited in this season were Ecuador, Mozambique, Poland, Macau, and Guam. This was the last season to feature the Yield until The Amazing Race 32.

Marketing 
This season introduced the Elimination Station, featured on the official website. A series of thirteen web episodes presented the eliminated contestants living together in a common house in their sequester location in Acapulco, Mexico. The series was viewable only in the United States and was available on the Innertube video streaming service on the CBS website, with a new episode debuting immediately following the airing of each new Amazing Race episode in the Pacific Time Zone.

Cast 

The eleven teams were selected from among the first ten seasons. Phil Keoghan personally submitted a list of fifteen teams that he thought should return. Ten of them were chosen. The team he didn't choose was Eric & Danielle, who did not previously race together. Keoghan said, "I didn't think of that new combination, which actually is a really good one." He also added that the production team's goal for the race "wasn't to pick the best racers," but "to pick the teams that have earned the most attention over the last 10 seasons." Only one team, Uchenna & Joyce, had won their original season, while other seasons' winners criticized CBS' casting process after being omitted, most notably Chip and Kim McAllister (season 5), and B.J. Averell and Tyler MacNiven (season 9).

Colin Guinn and Christie Woods from season 5 were invited to participate, but declined due to Christie's pregnancy. They would eventually participate on The Amazing Race 31. Flo Pesenti and Drew Riker, who began dating after meeting during season 3, were invited to participate, but Flo reportedly declined because she felt the first race had brought out the worst in her, and her season 3 winning partner, Zach Behr, was not invited to join her.

Rob and Amber Mariano (née Brkich) had gotten married after competing on season 7.

Future appearances
Rob Mariano went on to compete on Survivor: Heroes vs. Villains, Survivor: Redemption Island, and participated as a non-competing mentor on Survivor: Island of the Idols. Rob and Amber both returned to Survivor to compete on Survivor: Winners at War. On May 23, 2016, Rob appeared on a Survivor-themed primetime special episode of The Price is Right.

Results
The following teams are listed with their placements in each leg. Placements are listed in finishing order. 
A  placement with a dagger () indicates that the team was eliminated. 
An  placement with a double-dagger () indicates that the team was the last to arrive at a Pit Stop in a non-elimination leg, and was "marked for elimination" in the following leg.
A  indicates that the team won the Fast Forward. 
A  indicates that the team used the Yield and a  indicates the team on the receiving end of the Yield. 
A  indicates that the teams encountered an Intersection.

Notes

Race summary

Leg 1 (United States → Ecuador)

Episode 1: "I Told You Less Martinis and More Cardio" (February 18, 2007)
Prize: A trip to Whistler, British Columbia (awarded to Rob & Amber)
Eliminated: John Vito & Jill
Locations
Palmetto Bay, Florida (Charles Deering Estate) (Starting Line)
 Miami (Miami International Airport) → Quito, Ecuador
Quito (Plaza de San Francisco)
Quito (Pim's Restaurant)
Cotopaxi National Park (Hacienda Yanahurco) 
Cotopaxi National Park (Mirador Cotopaxi) 
Episode summary
Teams set off from the Charles Deering Estate in Palmetto Bay, Florida, and had to drive to Miami International Airport and book one of two flights to Quito, Ecuador. Six teams flew on the Copa Airlines flight, which departed first but arrived two hours after the American Airlines flight, which departed second and carried the other five teams. Once there, teams had to travel to Plaza de San Francisco in order to find their next clue, which sent them to Pim's Restaurant. There, teams had to pick one of three departure times.
The next morning, teams were provided a map and had to drive themselves to Hacienda Yanahurco at Cotopaxi National Park, where they found their next clue.
 This season's first Detour was a choice between Wrangle It or Recover It. In Wrangle It, teams had to help local cowboys lasso, tie down, and groom one wild horse. Team members had to clip its hooves and trim its mane and tail. When the horse was released, teams received their next clue. In Recover It, one team member had to put on a historical military uniform and then search a field for three items missing from the uniform (an epaulette, a button, and a sword) in order to receive their next clue.
Teams had to check in at the Pit Stop: Mirador Cotopaxi in Cotopaxi National Park.

Leg 2 (Ecuador → Chile)

Episode 2: "Beauty Is Sometimes Skin Deep" (February 25, 2007)
Prize: An off-road motorcycle for each member (awarded to Rob & Amber)
Eliminated: Kevin & Drew
Locations
Cotopaxi National Park (Mirador Cotopaxi) 
 Quito → Santiago, Chile
Santiago (Codelco Corporate Headquarters) 
 Santiago → Calama
Calama (Chuquicamata) 
San Pedro de Atacama (Valley of the Dead) 
Episode summary
At the start of this leg, teams were instructed to fly to Santiago, Chile. Once there, teams had to make their way to the Codelco corporate headquarters in order to find their next clue.
 In this season's first Roadblock, one team member had to enter the Codelco headquarters and search the boardroom for letters of the alphabet. They had to figure out that the letters, when unscrambled, spelled one of the ten destinations inscribed on the plaques hanging on the wall. When they believed they had the solution – Chuquicamata – they had to show their answer to the security guard. If they were correct, he handed them their next clue.
Teams were then instructed to fly to Calama and then make their way to the Chuquicamata copper mine.
 This leg's Detour was a choice between By Hand or By Machine. In By Hand, teams had to choose a two-ton tire and finish securing it to a dump truck by screwing in properly-aligned bolts and washers in order to receive their next clue. In By Machine, each team member had to take turns driving a front loader to transfer enough gravel to cover a yellow line, at which point they received their next clue.
After the Detour, teams had to drive to the Pit Stop at the Valley of the Dead in San Pedro de Atacama.

Leg 3 (Chile)

Episode 3: "I'm Sorry I'm Wearing a Bathing Suit. It Is Very Weird, I Know" (March 4, 2007)
Prize: A home gym for each member (awarded to Rob & Amber)
Eliminated: David & Mary
Locations
San Pedro de Atacama (Valley of the Dead) 
San Pedro de Atacama (Iglesia de San Pedro de Atacama)
 Calama → Puerto Montt
Metri (Universidad de Los Lagos – Centro Acuicultura y Ciencias del Mar) 
Vicente Pérez Rosales National Park (Petrohué River – La Maquina) 
Vicente Pérez Rosal