# Nissan Qashqai

The Nissan Qashqai () is a compact crossover SUV (C-segment) developed and produced by the Japanese car manufacturer Nissan since 2006. The first generation of the vehicle was sold as the  in Japan and Australia, and Qashqai in the rest of the world. The second generation, which was released in 2014, was not sold in Japan and was badged as the Qashqai in all countries it was sold, except in the United States, where it was rebadged as the Nissan Rogue Sport. The third and current generation was released in 2021.

Nissan named the vehicle after the Qashqai people, who live in mountainous Central and Southwestern Iran. , for the European and Australian market the Qashqai is positioned between the Juke and the X-Trail in Nissan's crossover SUV lineup.



Development
When the Renault–Nissan Alliance was formed in 1999, Nissan's new COO Carlos Ghosn instructed the company to transform its product portfolio in Europe. The C-segment Almera, a slow-seller in Europe became a primary focus. In early 2002, 25 European Nissan engineers travelled to the brand’s technical centre in Japan to start of a 12-month project to develop the successor of the Almera. It was projected to be larger, to compete with the SEAT Altea and Volkswagen Golf Plus.

In December 2002, the company concluded the planned model would not be as profitable and competitive as was required. The development team eventually came up with the idea of a "mini-Murano" type of vehicle smaller than the X-Trail that would be positioned to compete with hatchback and saloons. The development was focused on creating a European-oriented vehicle with the desirability, practicality and versatility of an SUV but with the size, driving dynamics and running costs of a family hatchback. While engineering work was done by Nissan's European Technical Centre (NTCE), a design proposal was put forward by Nissan Design Europe (NDE), which created the 2004 Qashqai concept.

During final development, Nissan decided the Qashqai would serve as a replacement for both the Almera in the C-segment and Primera in the D-segment. Nissan selected Nissan Motor Manufacturing UK as its manufacturing plant for the European market.

First generation (J10; 2006)

First unveiled as a concept vehicle at the 2004 Geneva Motor Show, the first-generation Qashqai was globally presented at the 2006 Paris Motor Show. It went on sale in February 2007, and Nissan aimed for more than 100,000 sales a year. Codenamed P32L, Nissan said the car would cater to buyers who want a more dynamic design, but are not attracted to the large, traditionally upright nature of an SUV. The car slots below the X-Trail in the Nissan range and partially replaces the conventional Primera and the smaller Almera. It is the first model to be styled by Nissan Design Europe in London, with engineering development led by Nissan Technical Centre Europe (NTCE) in Cranfield, Bedfordshire.

The Qashqai uses the same platform as the X-Trail. It received a five star Euro NCAP safety rating – the best ever adult occupant score.

Five engine choices were available: a  1.6 L or a  2.0 L petrol, while the  1.5 L,  1.6 L and  2.0 L provide the diesel offerings.

The first-generation Qashqai sold more than 1.24 million units in Europe during its seven year production run. From the UK, the first-generation Qashqai was also exported to the Middle East and other overseas markets.

Name
Nissan considered releasing the Chinese version as the CCUV (Compact Crossover Utility Vehicle). In Australia, the first-generation Qashqai carries the name Dualis from the Japanese market because Nissan worried Qashqai could be pronounced "cash cow". The press has often used that pun to describe the sales success of the model.

Production
The Qashqai has been built at the Nissan Motor Manufacturing UK (NMUK) plant in Sunderland, Tyne and Wear, United Kingdom, since December 2006. It occupied the production line previously used to assemble the Primera on Line 1 and a percentage of Almera from line 2.

Qashqai+2 (NJ10)
Production of the Qashqai+2, a seven-seat model, began at the UK plant in July 2008. Launched in October 2008, it is a larger variant of the standard model, with the wheelbase extended by . The car's overall length is extended by  to allow for a third row of seats, and roof height is increased by  at the rear. The chassis is unique from the A-pillar back, while trim and engine models remain identical to the standard Qashqai.

The Qashqai+2 was discontinued in 2013, and replaced by the T32 X-Trail with a seven-seat configuration.

2009 facelift
In December 2009, Nissan announced a refreshed version of the first-generation Qashqai, which went on sale in March 2010. The model's front end has been completely restyled, while the rear now includes LED tail lights. Modifications to the interior include a new instrument panel layout for the vehicle's drive computer, better soundproofing and minor storage additions.

In the European market, electronic stability control became standard across the range and two new exterior colours have been added. An "eco-friendly" Pure Drive variant was also introduced.

2011 engine update

A new 1.6 dCi engine replaces the previous 2.0 dCi. Peak power was down from  to , but there is the same  of torque, available at 1750 rpm, rather than 2000 rpm. Nissan has not released full performance figures, but says the 1.6 dCi has a quicker  acceleration figure than the 2.0 dCi.

Nissan has also added its Around View Monitor as standard equipment for 360 (replaces N-tec) versions of the Qashqai and Qashqai+2. The system uses a set of external cameras to create a 360 degree "bird's eye" view of the car to help with parking manoeuvres. The driver can also focus individually on front, rear or passenger cameras to look out for a particular obstacle.

Markets

Japan

The Japanese domestic market Dualis was offered in 2.0 G, 2.0 S, 2.0 G Four, and 2.0 S Four trim levels. All models are powered by 2.0-litre MR20DE engine matched to six-speed Xtronic CVT. The Dualis was discontinued in Japan on 31 March 2014, after which the Juke was the only Nissan's mini SUV still produced and sold in Japan.

Middle East
In some Middle Eastern markets, the first-generation Qashqai was offered in S, SE and LE, Standard on all trims is the 2.0-litre  MR20DE engine with CVT.

New Zealand
The Qashqai was introduced to New Zealand in May 2009, initially sourced from Japan. Nissan New Zealand used the Qashqai name to distinguish the model from Dualis grey imports, which were shipped from Japan before the official release. The New Zealand spec Qashqai was then sourced from the UK plant from August 2009. As of 2016 the range consisted of three specification levels: ST, ST-L and Ti, all with 2WD 2.0L MR20DE CVT. A TS model (1.6 diesel) was also available. The Qashqai+2 was added to the range in July 2010 but discontinued with the new model launch in 2014. The updated X-Trail (Rogue in United States), released at about the same time, became the only seven-seater option.

United Kingdom
The Qashqai has been made at the plant in Sunderland, England, since December 2006, occupying the production line previously occupied by the Nissan Primera on Line 1 and a percentage of Almera from line 2. Its launch coincided with the withdrawal of the Primera from the UK market due to low sales. This left Nissan with no direct successor to the Almera or Primera on the UK market, with the "supermini MPV" Note being sold as an indirect successor to the Almera, and the Qashqai as a successor to the Primera. This move was seen as controversial, but in time appears to have paid off as the Qashqai has proved a major sales success in the UK, with more than 39,000 sales in 2010 making it the tenth best selling new car in Britain – the first Nissan to make the top ten in Britain since the Sunny in 1983. In 2010, Nissan was considering whether to introduce the Nissan Tiida to Europe, it having already directly replaced the Almera in other markets. In 2012, the Qashqai's sixth year on sale in the UK, sales exceeded 45,000 to make it the sixth best selling car there that year.

Russia
The Qashqai and Qashqai+2 (seven seat version) were available in Russia with the following gasoline powered four-cylinder engines:

For Qashqai
 1.6 L —  2WD; 5MT and CVT
 2.0 L —  2WD and 4WD; 6MT and CVT
For Qashqai+2
 1.6 L —  2WD; 5MT
 2.0 L —  2WD with 6MT only; 4WD with 6MT or CVT

Recall
On 13 September 2012, Nissan recalled 51,000 cars worldwide to investigate a reported steering wheel problem. It affected the Qashqai, Qashqai+2 and NV200 models.

Second generation (J11; 2013)

The Qashqai J11 was introduced in London on 7 November 2013 at a worldwide streamed launch. The vehicle is larger and based on an all-new CMF-CD platform shared with the Nissan X-Trail/Rogue and Renault Kadjar. It went on sale in the UK in February 2014. The Qashqai J11 was awarded What Car? "Car of the Year" 2014.

The Dualis nameplate has been discontinu