# I'll Stand by You

"I'll Stand by You" is a song recorded by English-American rock band the Pretenders from their sixth studio album, Last of the Independents (1994). The song was written by Chrissie Hynde and the songwriting team of Tom Kelly and Billy Steinberg, and produced by Ian Stanley. The song is a ballad in which the singer pledges love and faithful assistance to a loved one in times of personal darkness.

Released on April 11, 1994 by Sire, Warner Bros. and WEA, "I'll Stand by You" reached the top 20 in several countries, including Australia, Belgium, Canada, Iceland, the United Kingdom, and the United States. It also became a major hit for British girl group Girls Aloud in 2004 and American country singer Carrie Underwood in 2007, both times recorded as a charity single. Colombian singer Shakira performed the song for the live charity telethon Hope for Haiti Now in 2010; her cover version was released on the charity benefit album, which was also entitled Hope for Haiti Now.

Release and commercial reception
"I'll Stand by You" was released as the second single from the album Last of the Independents (1994), and it reached number 16 on the US Billboard Hot 100, number 21 on Billboards Modern Rock Tracks chart, and number 10 in the United Kingdom. It charted higher in the UK and the US than "Night in My Veins", the album's first single. The music video for "I'll Stand by You" was released in 1994 and features Chrissie Hynde caring for an ill man. On the long-running BBC program Songwriters Circle, Hynde mentions her embarrassment at having set out to write a "hit." She goes on to say that she felt better about the song after Noel Gallagher said "he wished he'd written it.". Since 2010 the song has been used in an appeal advert for the NSPCC, and also the Girls Aloud version was used in an advert for Aptamil follow-on milk.

Critical reception
Larry Flick from Billboard wrote that Chrissie Hynde "returns with a worn, but warm vocal that evokes a powerful, moving presence." Steve Baltin from Cashbox felt that "from the opening note, this song oozes "nice". Hard to believe this is the same Chrissie Hynde who, in the song "Precious", once told the world to "fuck off". Fourteen years ago, what drew people to her was the conviction she sang with. Though this song has a decidedly different tone, the feeling is as strong as ever. In addition, Hynde's singing has grown to where she can wail with the best of them, as she does here against a backdrop that increases perfectly with the rising emotion in her voice." Ken Tucker from Entertainment Weekly stated that the singer "matches form with content again and again" on the album, noting that she is "pledging solemn faithfulness to a loved one on the somber anthem". Irish Evening Herald opined that the song "showcases an updated Pretenders' sound." Linda Ryan from the Gavin Report declared it as one of the album's "beautiful, heart-stopping ballads", adding that it "will be a monster hit in a variety of formats." Caroline Sullivan from The Guardian remarked its "simple vow".

Chuck Campbell from Knoxville News Sentinel viewed it as "straightforward and endearing". In his weekly UK chart commentary, James Masterton wrote, "Stand by to have your heartstrings tugged." He explained that it is "a gorgeous ballad of the kind Ms Hynde can churn out easily if she puts her mind to it. A potential classic to rival "2000 Miles" and the ode to motherhood that was their last chart hit, the track may well rise further." Caren Myers from Melody Maker deemed it "an unsurprising single which works better as a humble track", while Paul Mathur called it the "worst track" of the album. Pan-European magazine Music & Media named it "this spring's biggest ballad", adding, "Such symmetry between big time sensuality, kitsch, pathos and wall of sound!" Alan Jones from Music Week gave it four out of five and named it Pick of the Week, writing, "Unlike Pretenders' hits of the past it is slightly formulaic but it nonetheless a seductively swaying rock anthem." A reviewer from People Magazine felt it's the "weakest track" of the album, describing it as "an anthem of blind support." Sandwell Evening Mail viewed it as "excellent". Paul Evans from Rolling Stone stated that Hynde "nails devotion" on the song, "and like any master, makes it all seem easy."

Music video
A music video was produced to promote the single, directed by London-based director Zanna. It takes place in an old wooden hut, featuring Hynde singing the song towards a man who is in a worried state. Throughout the video, Hynde tries to comfort and take care of him. When he arrives in the beginning, she greets him and knocks over a glass of milk before singing in his direction. It is unclear whether the man hears her or is even aware of her presence. The man, obviously worried, holds a bullet in his hand. He also looks into a map. Other times he plays with a coin or a card deck. Hynde tries to comfort him. She holds her arms around him, and also mends his clothes with needle and sewing thread. She helps him with tools when he tries to fix a machine. Later after struggling with awakening him, she carries the ill man to a bath tub, where she washes and nurses him. In the end, the man, now fully dressed again, leaves the hut, while Hynde watches him. On the table lies an ace card with a knife stuck through it. Zanna also previously directed the video for the band's previous single, "Night in My Veins".

Legacy
Idolator included "I'll Stand by You" in their ranking of "The 50 Best Pop Singles of 1994" in 2014. An editor, Jonathan Riggs, said, "Regardless of how representative of Hynde's oeuvre with the Pretenders it really was, "I'll Stand By You" continues to resonate decades later."

Track listing

Personnel
 Chrissie Hynde – guitar, vocals
 Adam Seymour – guitar

Additional musicians
 J.F.T. Hood – drums
 David Paton – bass guitar
 Tom Kelly – piano, guitar
 London Gospel Choir – choir
 David Lord – string arrangement
 Bob Clearmountain – mixing 
 Tony Philips – mixing
 Steve Williams – engineer

Charts

Weekly charts

Year-end charts

Certifications

Girls Aloud version

In 2004, British-Irish all-female pop group Girls Aloud recorded a cover of "I'll Stand by You" as the official charity single for the 2004 Children in Need fundraising campaign. Their version was produced by Brian Higgins and his production team Xenomania. The track was announced a single just ten days before its November 15, 2004, release. It became Girls Aloud's second number one on the UK Singles Chart, spending two weeks at the top position and receiving a silver certification from the British Phonographic Industry. The song appears on Girls Aloud's second studio album What Will the Neighbours Say? (2004).

The music video, directed by Trudy Bellinger, saw Girls Aloud stranded in a desert as they "stand by" each other. "I'll Stand by You" was promoted through various live appearances and has since been performed on a number of the group's concert tours. Despite its success, Girls Aloud's cover of the song was largely panned by contemporary music critics.

Background and release
The first version of "I'll Stand by You" that Xenomania created was described as a "weird, modernist breakbeat version", which was scrapped upon deciding an updated version of the original song would be better suited for Children in Need. The track's release was announced a single just ten days before its release date. Nicola Roberts said, "Hopefully if our single does well it's a lot of money going to the charity."

The single was released on November 15, 2004, in the UK, the week of the Children in Need 2004 telethon. It was available on two different CD singles. The first disc includes "Real Life", a song taken from Girls Aloud's second album What Will the Neighbours Say?. The second CD format featured a medley of songs taken from the album, as well as the Tony Lamezma's Club Romp remix of the track. The Gravitas Vocal Dub Mix Edit of "I'll Stand by You" appears on the "Wake Me Up" single.

In order to promote the release, Girls Aloud toured radio stations across the United Kingdom and performed an acoustic arrangement of "I'll Stand by You" that they arranged themselves. They also visited children's hospitals.

Critical reception
Girls Aloud's version of "I'll Stand By You" was largely panned by music critics. It was called "a particular soggy area" on Girls Aloud's album. Alexis Petridis of The Guardian, who praised Girls Aloud's album, said that "I'll Stand by You" was "a thing of death-dealing tedium." BBC Music felt it was "arguable whether this cover adds much to the Pretenders' original." Sam Shepherd of musicOMH bluntly stated "perhaps the children most in need, are those that part with their pocket money for this drivel [...] This is a sub-karaoke version, limp, tired, and uninspired."

However, Stylus Magazine actually commended the song, comparing it to Shakespears Sister and calling it "far, far better than a