# Molecular logic gate

A molecular logic gate is a molecule that performs a logical operation based on one or more physical or chemical inputs and a single output. The field has advanced from simple logic systems based on a single chemical or physical input to molecules capable of combinatorial and sequential operations such as arithmetic operations (i.e. moleculators and memory storage algorithms). Molecular logic gates work with input signals based on chemical processes and with output signals based on spectroscopic phenomena. 

Logic gates are the fundamental building blocks of electrical circuits. They can be used to construct digital architectures with varying degrees of complexity by a cascade of a few to several million logic gates. Logic gates are essentially physical devices that produce a singular binary output after performing logical operations based on Boolean functions on one or more binary inputs. The concept of molecular logic gates, extending the applicability of logic gates to molecules, aims to convert chemical systems into computational units. Over the past three decades, the field has evolved to realize several practical applications in molecular electronics, biosensing, DNA computing, nanorobotics, and cell imaging, among others.

Working principle 

For logic gates with a single input, there are four possible output patterns. When the input is 0, the output can be either a 0 or 1. When the input is 1, the output can again be 0 or 1. The four output bit patterns that can arise corresponds to a specific logic type: PASS 0, YES, NOT, and PASS 1. PASS 0 always outputs 0, whatever the input. PASS 1 always outputs 1, whatever the input. YES outputs a 1 when the input is 1, and NOT is the inverse of YES – it outputs a 0 when the input is 1.

AND, OR, XOR, NAND, NOR, XNOR, and INH are two-input logic gates. The AND, OR, and XOR gates are fundamental logic gates, and the NAND, NOR, and XNOR gates are complementary to AND, OR, and XOR gates, respectively. An INHIBIT (INH) gate is a special conditional logic gate that includes a prohibitory input. When the prohibitory input is absent, the output produced depends solely on the other input.

History and development 
One of the earliest ideas for the use of π-conjugated molecules in molecular computation was proposed by Ari Aviram from IBM in 1988. The motivation for this work was to develop theoretical models for mixed-valence type-σ-π-σ-bonded molecules and explore their stereochemical properties for potential applications in molecular devices. The system comprised two π-conjugated systems, 1 and 2, made of oligothiophenes joined by a spiro linkage, and connected to gold electrodes by thiol linkers. π-system 1 is non-conducting in its neutral state, whereas system 2 is electrically conducting in its radical cation form. The twisted structure of the system courtesy of the spiro linkage provides hindrance to the transport of electrons between the two π-systems. However, through electrodes directed toward the linkage, a strong electric field could facilitate electron transfer from system 1 to system 2, with the radical cation going the opposite way.

The first practical realization of molecular logic was courtesy of de Silva and coworkers in their seminal work, in which they constructed a molecular photoionic AND gate with a fluorescent output. While a YES molecular logic gate, as described previously, can convert signals from their ionic to photonic forms (hence the term “photoionic”), they are singular-input-singular-output systems. To build more complex molecular logic architectures, two-input gates, namely AND and OR gates, are needed. Some early works made some progress in this direction, but could not realize a complete truth table as their ionic forms (protonated) could not bind to the substrate in all cases. De Silva and co. constructed an anthracene-based AND gate made up of tertiary amine and benzo-18-crown-6 units, both of which were known to show photoinduced electron transfer (PET) processes. In the system shown, they both acted as receptors, connected to the anthracene-based fluorophore by alkyl spacers. The PET is quenched upon coordination with protons and sodium ions, respectively, for the two receptors, and would lead the anthracene unit to fluoresce. The truth table for an AND gate was completely realized as the system would exhibit a fluorescence output only in the presence of both protons and sodium ions in the system.

Examples of molecular logic gates

YES molecular logic gate 
An example of a YES logic gate comprises a benzo-crown-ether connected to a cyano-substituted anthracene unit. An output of 1 (fluorescence) is obtained only when sodium ions are present in the solution (indicating an input of 1). Sodium ions are encapsulated by the crown ether, resulting in a quenching of the PET process, and causing the anthracene unit to fluoresce.

AND molecular logic gate 

This molecular logic gate illustrated demonstrates the advancement from redox-fluorescent switches to multi-input logic gates with an electrochemical switch. This two-input AND logic gate incorporates a tertiary amine proton receptor and a tetrathiafulvalene redox donor. These groups, when attached to anthracene, can simultaneously process information concerning acid concentration and oxidizing ability of the solution.

OR molecular logic gate 
De Silva et al. constructed an OR molecular logic gate using an aza-crown ether receptor and sodium and potassium ions as the inputs. Either of the two ions could bind to the crown ether, causing the PET to be quenched and the fluorescence to be turned on. Since either of the two ions (input “1”) could turn on the fluorescence (output “1”), the system resembled an OR logic gate.

INH molecular logic gate 
The INHIBIT logic gate incorporates a Tb3+ ion in a chelate complex. This two-input logic gate is the first of its kind and displays non-commutative behavior with chemical inputs and a phosphorescence output. Whenever dioxygen (input “1”) is present, the system is quenched and no phosphorescence is observed (output “0”). The second input, H+, must also be present for an output “1” to be observed. This is understood from a two-input INHIBIT truth table as included in Table 2.

NAND molecular logic gate 
Parker and Williams constructed a NAND logic gate based on turning on strong emission from a terbium complex of phenanthridine. When acid and oxygen (the two inputs) are absent (input “0”), the fluorescence from the terbium center is turned on (output “1”). Hence, the system acts as a molecular NAND gate.

NOR molecular logic gate 
Akkaya and coworkers demonstrated a molecular NOR gate using a boradiazaindacene system. Fluorescence of the highly-emissive boradiazaindacene (input “1”) was found to be quenched in the presence of either a zinc salt [Zn(II)] or trifluoroacetic acid (TFA). The system, thus, could realize the truth table of a NOR logic gate.

XOR and XNOR molecular logic gates 

De Silva and McClenaghan designed a proof-of-principle arithmetic device based on molecular logic gates. As depicted in Figure 10 A, Compound A is a push-pull olefin with the top receptor containing four carboxylic acid anion groups (and non-disclosed counter cations) capable of binding to calcium. The bottom part is a quinoline molecule which is a receptor for hydrogen ions. The logic gate operates as follows. Without any chemical input of Ca2+ or H+, the chromophore shows a maximum absorbance in UV/VIS spectroscopy at 390 nm. When calcium is introduced a hypsochromic shift (blue shift) takes place and the absorbance at 390 nm decreases. Likewise, addition of protons causes a bathochromic shift (red shift), and when both cations are in the water, the net result is absorption at the original 390 nm wavelength. This system represents an XNOR logic gate in absorption and an XOR logic gate in transmittance.

In another XOR logic gate system, the chemistry is based on the pseudorotaxane depicted in Figure 11. In organic solution the electron-deficient diazapyrenium salt (rod) and the electron-rich 2,3-dioxynaphthalene units of the crown ether (ring) self-assemble by formation of a charge transfer complex. An added tertiary amine like tributylamine forms a 1:2 adduct with the diazapyrene and the complex gets dethreaded. This process is accompanied by an increase in emission intensity at 343 nm resulting from freed crown ether. Added trifluoromethanesulfonic acid reacts with the amine and the process is reverted. Excess acid locks the crown ether by protonation and again the complex is de-threaded.

Half-adder and half-subtractor molecular circuits 
In compound B in Figure 10 B, the bottom section contains a tertiary amino group, also capable of binding to protons. In this system, fluorescence only takes place when both cations available. The presence of both cations hinders photoinduced electron transfer (PET) allowing compound B to fluoresce. In the absence of both or either ion, fluor