# Visa policy of the United States

Visitors to the United States must obtain a visa from one of the U.S. diplomatic missions unless they come from one of the visa-exempt or Visa Waiver Program countries. The same rules apply for travel to all U.S. states, Washington, D.C., Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands, as well as to Guam and the Northern Mariana Islands with additional waivers, while similar but separate rules apply to American Samoa.

Overview

Travel documents
The U.S. government requires all individuals entering or departing the United States by air, or entering the United States by sea from outside the Americas, to hold one of the following documents:
 U.S. passport
 Foreign passport; for entry, a U.S. visa is also required except for:
 Citizens of the freely associated states (Marshall Islands, Micronesia and Palau)
 Nationals of certain neighboring jurisdictions (Canada and Bermuda generally; Bahamas, British Virgin Islands, Cayman Islands and Turks and Caicos Islands under certain conditions; and Mexico under limited categories)
 Nationals of countries in the Visa Waiver Program (or of certain additional countries only for Guam and the Northern Mariana Islands)
 U.S. permanent resident card (Form I-551) or temporary I-551 stamp
 U.S. travel document serving as a re-entry permit (Form I-327) or refugee travel document (Form I-571)
 U.S. advance parole authorization (Form I-512), or employment authorization document (Form I-766) annotated "valid for re-entry to U.S." or "serves as I-512 advance parole"
 U.S. military or NATO identification with official travel order
 U.S. merchant mariner credential indicating U.S. citizenship
 NEXUS card indicating U.S. or Canadian citizenship (only to or from Canadian airports)
 U.S. government-issued transportation letter or boarding foil (for entry only)
 Foreign emergency travel document or U.S. removal order (for departure only)

For entry by land or sea from the Americas, individuals must present one of the documents acceptable for entry by air or one of the following:
 U.S. passport card
 NEXUS, SENTRI, FAST or Global Entry card indicating U.S. or Canadian citizenship
 U.S. or Canadian enhanced driver's license
 Enhanced tribal card, Native American photo identification card, or Canadian Indian status card
 U.S. or Canadian birth certificate, U.S. Consular Report of Birth Abroad, U.S. naturalization certificate or Canadian citizenship certificate, only for children under age 16, or under age 19 in a supervised group
 Government-issued photo identification along with U.S. birth certificate, Consular Report of Birth Abroad or naturalization certificate, only for travel by cruise ship returning to the same place of departure in the United States

Nationals of Mexico may use a Border Crossing Card, which serves as a visa when presented with a passport. Without a passport, the card on its own also allows entry by land or sea while remaining within  from the Mexico–United States border (up to 75 miles in Arizona and 55 miles in New Mexico) for a stay of up to 30 days.

Children born to a U.S. permanent resident mother during a temporary visit abroad do not need a passport or visa at the mother's first re-entry to the United States within two years after birth. Similarly, children born abroad to a parent with a U.S. immigrant visa after its issuance do not need a passport or visa if listed in the parent's passport with a birth certificate.

Visas
While there are about 185 different types of U.S. visas, there are two main categories:
 Nonimmigrant visa, for temporary stays such as for tourism, business, family visits, study, work or transit;
 Immigrant visa: for permanent residence in the United States. At the port of entry, upon endorsement with an I-551 admission stamp, the visa serves as evidence of permanent residence for one year, and the visa holder is processed for a green card. A child with an IR-3 or IH-3 visa automatically becomes a U.S. citizen upon admission and is processed for a certificate of citizenship (N-560).

A U.S. visa does not authorize entry into the United States or a stay in a particular status, but only serves as a preliminary permission to travel to the United States and to seek admission at a port of entry. The final admission to the United States is made at the port of entry by a U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) officer. For those entering in a nonimmigrant visa status, the admission details are recorded by the CBP officer on a Form I-94 (or Form I-94W for nationals of the Visa Waiver Program countries for short visits), which serves as the official document authorizing the stay in the United States in a particular status and for a particular period of time. In order to immigrate, one should either have an immigrant visa or have a dual intent visa, which is one that is compatible with making a concurrent application for nonimmigrant and immigrant status.

Entering the United States on an employment visa may be described as a three-step process in most cases. First, the employer files an application with U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services requesting a particular type of category visa for a specific individual. If the employer's application is approved, it only authorizes the individual to apply for a visa; the approved application is not actually a visa. The individual then applies for a visa and is usually interviewed at a U.S. embassy or consulate in the native country.  If the embassy or consulate grants the visa, the individual is then allowed to travel to the United States. At the airport, border crossing or other point of entry, the individual speaks with an officer from U.S. Customs and Border Protection to request admission, and if approved, the individual may then enter the United States.

In addition to immigration sponsored by a U.S. family member or employer, about 55,000 immigrant visas are available each year to natives of certain countries under the Diversity Immigrant Visa program, also known as the green card lottery.

Visa policy map

Visa exemption

Citizens of freely associated states

Nationals of neighboring jurisdictions 

The United States grants visa-free entry to nationals of two neighboring jurisdictions under most circumstances:
  Citizens of Canada do not need a visa to visit the United States under most circumstances. In addition, under the USMCA (and previously the NAFTA), they may obtain authorization to work under a simplified procedure.
  British Overseas Territories citizens of Bermuda do not need a visa to visit the United States under most circumstances for up to 180 days. They may also enter to study there without a visa. To qualify for the visa exemption, they must present a British passport with "Government of Bermuda" on the cover, with the nationality listed as "British Overseas Territories Citizen" or "British Dependent Territories Citizen", and containing an endorsement stamp of "Holder is registered as a Bermudian", "Holder possesses Bermudian status" or "Holder is deemed to possess Bermudian status".

The United States also grants visa-free entry to nationals of some other neighboring jurisdictions under certain conditions:
  Nationals of the Bahamas do not need a visa to the United States if they apply for admission at a U.S. preclearance facility located in the Bahamas. In addition to a Bahamian passport, applicants 14 years of age or older must present a police certificate issued by the Royal Bahamas Police Force in the previous six months indicating no criminal record.
  British Overseas Territories citizens of the British Virgin Islands may travel without a visa to the U.S. Virgin Islands with their British Virgin Islands passport. They may also continue travel to other parts of the United States if they present a Certificate of Good Conduct issued by the Royal Virgin Islands Police Department indicating no criminal record.
  British Overseas Territories citizens of the Cayman Islands may travel without a visa to the United States. To qualify, they must receive a visa waiver from the Cayman Islands Passport and Corporate Services Office, for which they must  present a Cayman Islands passport valid for at least six months beyond their intended departure from the United States, a fee of 25 Cayman Islands dollars, and a police clearance certificate for applicants age 13 or older. The visa waiver is valid for only one entry and for travel directly from the Cayman Islands to the United States.
British Overseas Territories citizens of the Turks and Caicos Islands may travel to the United States without a visa for short stays for business or pleasure. To qualify, they must travel directly from the territory to the United States, present a Turks and Caicos Islands passport or another travel document stating that they are British Overseas Territory citizens with the right of abode in the Turks and Caicos Islands, and applicants 14 years of age or older must also present a police certificate issued in the previous six months indic