# Kue

Kue is an Indonesian bite-sized snack or dessert food. Kue is a fairly broad term in Indonesian to describe a wide variety of snacks including cakes, cookies, fritters, pies, scones, and patisserie. Kue are made from a variety of ingredients in various forms; some are steamed, fried or baked. Kue are popular snacks in Indonesia, which has the largest variety of kue. Because of the countries' historical colonial ties, Koeé (kue) is also popular in the Netherlands.

Indonesian kue demonstrate local native delicacies, Chinese and Indian influences, as well as European cake and pastry influences. For example, bakpia and kue ku are of Chinese Peranakan origin, kue putu is derived from Indian puttu, while kue bugis, klepon, nagasari, getuk, lupis and wajik are of native origin; on the other hand, lapis legit, kue cubit, kastengel, risoles and pastel are European influenced. In Java, traditional kue is categorized under jajan pasar (). The colourfully decorated jajan pasar is usually given as a food gift, or served to accompany tumpeng (the main dish) during traditional Javanese ceremonies.

Etymology 
The term "kue" is derived from Hokkien: 粿 koé. It is also spelled as kuih in Malaysian, and kueh in Singapore. Kue are more often steamed than baked, and are thus very different in texture, flavour and appearance from Western cakes or puff pastries. Many kue are sweet, but some are savoury.

Indonesian kue are usually categorized according to their moisture, roughly divided under two groups, kue basah () and kue kering (). However, the word kue in Indonesian language is used to refer to not only these kinds of traditional snacks, but also to all types of cake and some types of pastries. Most kue kering are technically pastries and many Western cakes can be considered as kue basah.<ref
name="Kue Basah dan Kue Kering"></ref>

Ingredients 

Many of the traditional Indonesian kue, either sweet or savoury, are based on rice flour and coconut. Traditionally, Indonesian sweets uses gula aren or palm sugar, yet powdered sugar or common sugar are also widely used. Rice flour and tapioca are probably the most commonly used flours in Indonesian kue. However, due to foreign influences, wheat flour is commonly used. For creamy flavour and texture, traditional Indonesian cakes uses coconut milk, yet today dairy products such as milk, cream, butter, cheese and margarine are also commonly used. Popular flavouring agents and spices includes coconut, peanut, green pandan, ginger, cinnamon, vanilla and chocolate.

Availability 

Today, in urban Indonesian society, kue are popular snacks for brunch or afternoon break, often to accompany coffee or tea. Various kue are often offered alongside Western pastries and cakes in cafes, coffee shops, snack stalls and warung kopi.

Traditionally, kue are made prior to certain celebration or events such as lebaran or natal, often homemade in Indonesian households and communities. For example, Keraton Yogyakarta traditionally held Ngapem ceremony, where royal households communally cook kue apem (Javanese version of appam) as a part of the Tingalan Jumenengan Dalem ceremony. Additionally, kue is a lucrative business, commonly available in pasar pagi markets as jajan pasar (market buys).

In Indonesia, kue is one of the most popular street food choices. Street vendors in wheeled carts frequent residential areas or station on busy sidewalks near marketplaces or schools. Certain kue, such as kue rangi, getuk and kue putu are known to be found in residential areas, while kue ape, kue pancong, kue pukis and kue cubit tend to be sold near marketplaces or schools.

In the Netherlands, various assorted selections of koeé are available in Indo toko and eetcafe snack shops.

Kue basah 

Most of traditional Indonesian kue are kue basah (wet kue). Most are moist and soft in texture, and are steamed or fried instead of baked. Kue basah is usually made with rich coconut milk, along with sugar and rice flour; as a result it can not keep for more than a day or two, especially in the hot and humid Indonesian tropical climate. In contrast, kue kering can last longer. The examples of kue basah are:
Kue agar-agar, jelly-like pudding.
Kue ape, thin wheat flour batter pancake with thicker center, colloquially called kue tetek (breast cake).
Kue apem, similar to Malay apam which ultimately derived from Indian appam. It is made of cassava tapai, coconut water, coconut sugar, rice flour, coconut milk, all mixed as a dough and steamed until fluffy and cooked. Served with grated coconut.
Kue arem-arem, rice cake snack made of compressed rice cake in the form of a cylinder wrapped inside a banana leaf, filled with diced vegetables, tempeh, oncom, minced meat or beef floss.
Kue asida, dodol-like cake made from a cooked wheat flour dough, sometimes with added butter or honey. It is popular during Ramadan.
Kue bagea, round-shaped and creamy-coloured cake made of sago. This cake has a hard consistency that can be softened in tea or water, to make it easier to chew.
Kue bahulu, tiny crusty sponge cakes which are made in distinctive shapes like buttons or goldfish, being baked in moulded pans. Bahulu is usually baked and served for festive occasions.
Kue bakcang, glutinous rice stuffed with meat (usually pork) and wrapped in bamboo leaf triangles.
Kue bakpau, baozi filled with chocolate, strawberry, cheese, mung bean, red bean, minced beef, diced chicken, or minced pork.
Kue bakpia, bean-filled Chinese pastry originally introduced by Fujianese immigrants. Today associated with Yogyakarta city.
Kue bakpia pathok, round-shaped sweet rolls (bakpia), usually stuffed with mung beans.
Kue barongko, banana cake made of mashed bananas, eggs, coconut milk, sugar and salt. Then wrapped in banana leaves and steamed.
Kue bibingka, baked rice cake made with rice flour, sugar, clarified butter, and coconut milk.
Kue bika ambon, yellow porous cake made from tapioca and sago flour, eggs, sugar and coconut milk. Bika Ambon is generally sold in pandan flavour, although it has become available in other flavors like banana, durian, cheese, and chocolate.
Kue bingka, cake made from mashed potato, flour, eggs, sugar, coconut milk, vanilla, milk and margarine, all mixed as dough and baked until golden brown and cooked. Probably related to Philippines bibingka cake.
Kue bitterballen, round-shape meat-based snack, similar to kroket.
Kue bolen, baked pastry with crust layers similar to those of croissants, made from flour with butter or margarine layers, filled with cheese and banana. Other variants use durian fillings. The cake demonstrates European pastry influences. 
Kue bolu, various sponge cakes and tarts.
Kue bolu beras, rice muffin cake.
Kue bolu gulung, Swiss roll cake filled with butter cream, cheese, kaya, or fruit jam. It is also very common for Swiss rolls to be sold by the slice, but some shops sell by both slice and roll.
Kue bolu kukus, steamed bun made of flour, sugar, eggs, margarine, and vanilla or chocolate flavouring.
Kue brem, fermented-tapai-based cake.
Kue bugis, steamed glutinous rice flour and tapioca colored green with pandan, filled with grated coconut and coconut sugar, wrapped inside banana leaf.
Kue bulan, circular cake shaped like the moon, white and thinner than regular mooncake. Fillings may include pork, chocolate, cheese, milk, durian, jackfruit and many other exotic fruits made into a paste. 
Kue burgo, folded rice pancake served in savoury whitish coconut milk-based soup, flavoured with fish, and sprinkled with fried shallots.
, sweet pastry made of eggs that are beaten until foamy with fine sugar. Formed using triangular plastic moulds and baked in the oven.
Kue cakwe, long golden-brown deep-fried strip of dough, commonly chopped or thinly sliced and usually eaten for breakfast with bubur ayam.
Kue cara, savory deep-fried dough with toppings of seasoned shredded tuna, a slice of chili, scallion, and celery. 
Kue carabikang, a sweet cake made of rice flour, shaped like flower-chapped and colorful.
, rice flour-based small glutinous cake, sweetened with sugar, moulded and coloured. Served with fresh grated coconut.
Kue cilok, ball-shaped dumpling made from tapioca starch.
Kue cincin, deep-fried dough pastry-based snack
Kue clorot, the sticky dough of glutinous rice flour sweetened with coconut sugar filled into the cone-shaped janur (young coconut leaf), and steamed until cooked. 
Kue combro, fritter cake made from grated cassava with round or oval shape. Combro can filled with oncom and chili.
Kue cubit, made primarily of flour, baking powder, sugar and milk. Liquid dough is poured inside a steel plate with several small round basins to form round shape. Topped with meises (chocolate granules not unlike sprinkles). Sellers use special hooked sticks to removed the cooked cakes from the steel plate. This cake is called kue "cubit" (Indonesian: pinch) because of its small bite size.
Kue cucur, pancake made of fried rice flour batter and coconut s