# Deutscher Jugendliteraturpreis

The  (German Youth Literature Award) is an annual award established in 1956 by the Federal Ministry of Family Affairs, Senior Citizens, Women and Youth to recognise outstanding works of children's and young adult literature. It is Germany's only state-funded literary award. In the past, authors from many countries have been recognised, including non-German speakers.

Organisation 

The award is organized by the , also called AKJ or Association for Children's and Youth Literature, which receives financial support, including prize money, from the Federal Ministry for Family Affairs, Senior Citizens, Women and Youth.

Awards are given  in five categories: Best Picture Book, Best Children's Book, Best Youth Book, Best Non-Fiction Book and Choice of the Youth Jury. Up to six nominations in each category are announced in March at the Leipzig Book Fair, and the awards are presented during the Frankfurt Book Fair by the Federal Minister of Family Affairs, Senior Citizens, Women and Youth. In each category, the winning author receives a 10,000 euro cash prize, and a bronze statuette designed by Detlef Kraft representing Momo from the novel by Michael Ende.

Furthermore, two special awards are presented alternately to German authors, illustrators or translators. The special award for lifetime achievement is set at 12,000 Euro. The newly created special award for new talents carries a value of 10,000 Euro. Both are also financed by the Federal Ministry.

History 

Since the award was established, many changes have been made.  When the  (as the award was known until 1981) began in 1956, only two categories were recognised; Best Children's Book and Best Youth Book. In addition to these, a special prize was awarded every year in a different category. It was not until 1964 that the Best Picture Book and Best Non-fiction Book categories replaced this variable award.  The final category recognized today, awarded by the , was not introduced until 2003, when it was originally called the Young People's Prize ().In 1991, to celebrate the 35th anniversary of the award, the special award for lifetime achievement was reintroduced to recognise individual achievement for writers, illustrators and translators. In 2017 it was supplemented by the special award for new talents to celebrate the 60th anniversary of the award..

Jury

Awards are decided upon by three juries: the  (Critics' Jury), the  and the Sonderpreisjury (special award jury). The  decides the nominations and the majority of the prizes; the  only decides the  prize. The Sonderpreisjury awards the special awards for lifetime achievement and new talents.

The  is appointed by the  once every two years, although jury members can serve two consecutive terms. The jury consists of nine members: the chair, and eight specialist judges - two for each award category.

The  consists of the members of six German youth book clubs. It is also changed every two years, although some clubs serve consecutive terms.

The Sonderpreisjury consists of three members and changes every year.

Awards

2010–2018

2018
Winner picture book: Der siebente Bruder oder Das Herz im Marmeladenglas by Øyvind Torseter (Text, Illustration), Maike Dörries (translator)

2017

Special award for lifetime achievement: Gudrun Pausewang (author) 

2016

 Special award for lifetime achievement: Klaus Kordon (author)
2015

 Special award for lifetime achievement: Sabine Friedrichson (illustrator)
2014

 Special award for lifetime achievement: Angelika Kutsch (translator)
2013

 Special award for lifetime achievement: Andreas Steinhöfel (author)
2012

 Special award for lifetime achievement: Norman Junge (illustrator)

2011

 Jugendjury:
 Nominees:
 Margos Spuren (Margo's Footsteps) by John Green (text); Sophie Zeitz (translation)
 Erebos by Ursula Poznanski
 Freak City  by Katrin Schrocke
 Nichts (Nothing) by Janne Teller (text); Sigrid C. Engeler (translation)
 Numbers by Rachel Ward (text); Uwe-Michael Gutzschhahn (translation)
 Wenn du stirbst, zieht dein ganzes Leben an dir vorbei, sagen sie (If you die, your life moves past you, they say) by Lauren Oliver (text); Katharina Meier Diestel (translation)
 Picture book:
 Nominees:
 Meine große kleine Welt (My big little world) by Marianne Dubuc (text); Anna Dove (translation)
 Das Baumhaus (The war) by Marije Tolman (illustration); Ronald Tolman (illustration);
 Oups by Jean-Luc Fromental (text); Joёlle Jolivet (illustration); Leonard Jacobson (translation)
 Die Geschichte vom Fuchs, der den Verstand verlor  by Martin Baltscheit
 Papas Arme sind ein Boot (Papa's arms are a boat) by Stein Erik Lunde (text); Øywind Torseter (illustration); Maike Dörries (translation)
 Tatu und Patu und ihre verrückten Maschinen  (Tatu and Patu and their crazy machines) by Sami Toivonen (text); Aino Havukainen (text); Elina Kritzokat (translation)
 Children's book:
 Nominees:
 Ich, Gorilla und der Affenstern (Me, Gorilla and Monkey-star) by Frida Nilsson (text); Ulf K. (illustration); Fred Buchinger (translation)
 Anton taucht ab by Milena Baisch (text); Elke Kusche (illustration)
 Der letzte unsichtbare Junge (The last invisible boy) by Evan Kuhlman (text); JP Coovert (illustration); Uwe-Michael Gutzschhahn (translation)
 Rosie und der Urgroßvater by Monika Helfer (text); Michael Köhlmeier (text); Barbara Steinitz (illustration)
 Onkel Montagues Schauergeschichten (Uncle Montague's tales of horror) by Chris Priestley (text); David Roberts (illustration); Beatrice Howeg (translation)
 Hundewinter (Dog Winter) by KA Nuzum (text); Gerda Bean (translation)
 Youth book:
 Nominees:
 Schrödinger, Dr. Linda und eine Leiche im Kühlhaus (Schrödinger, Dr. Linda and a corpse in cold storage) by Jan de Leeuw (text); Rolf Erdorf (translation)
 Tschick (Why We Took the Car) by Wolfgang Herrndorf
 Town – Irgendwo in Australien (Town – somewhere in Australia) by James Roy (text); Stefanie Schaeffler (translation)
 Zusammen allein (Together alone) by Karin Bruder
 Runaway by Oscar Huijelos (text); Günter Ohnemus (translation)
 Crank by Ellen Hopkins (text); Henning Ahrens (translation)
 Non-fiction book:
 Nominees:
 Das große Buch der Bilder und Wörter (The big book of pictures and words) by Ole Könnecke
 Alles Familie! (All family!) by Alexandra Maxeiner (text); Anke Kuhl (illustration)
 Der Junge, der Picasso biss (The boy who bit Picasso) by Antony Penrose (words); Egbert Baqué (translation)
 Zuckerpass und Blutgrätsche by Christian Eichler (text); Jürgen Rieckhoff (illustration)
 Die genialsten Erfindungen der Natur (The most ingenious inventions of nature) by Sigrid Belzer
 Von den Sternen bis zum Tau by Jens Soentgen (text); Vitali Konstantinov (illustration)

2010

 Jugendjury:
 Nominees:
 Einmal (Once) by Morris Gleitzman, 
 Chatroom-Falle by Helen Vreeswijk, 
 Tote Mädchen lügen nicht (Thirteen Reasons Why) by Jay Asher, 
 Die Tribute von Panem: Tödliche Spiele (The Hunger Games) by Suzanne Collins, 
 Unser allerbestes Jahr (The Film Club) by David Gilmour, 
 Die Einsamkeit der Primzahlen (The Solitude of Prime Numbers) by Paolo Giordano, 
 Picture book:
 Nominees:
 Johanna im Zug by Kathrin Schärer, 
 Wenn ich das 7. Geißlein wär´ by Karla Schneider (text) and Stefanie Harjes (illustration), 
 Gedicht für einen Goldfisch by Jean-Pierre Siméon (text) and Olivier Tallec (illustration), 
 Garmans Sommer by Stian Hole, 
 An Großvaters Hand: Meine Kindheit in China by Chen Jianghong, 
 Um Mitternacht by Eduard Mörike (text) and Hannes Binder (illustration), 
 Children's book:
 Nominees:
 Die Bibel: Das Alte Testament by Sybil Gräfin Schönfeldt (text) and Klaus Ensikat (illustration), 
 Timur und die Erfindungen aus lauter Liebe by Marlies Bardeli (text) and Anke Kuhl (illustration), 
 Meine Mutter ist in Amerika und hat Buffalo Bill getroffen by Jean Regnaud (text), Émile Bravo (illustration) and Michael Hau (Organisation), 
 Das Mädchen mit den drei Namen by Tami Shem-Tov, 
 Warten auf Anya (Waiting for Anya) by Michael Morpurgo, 
 Ihr kriegt mich nicht by Mikael Engström, 
 Youth book:
 Nominees:
 Nathan und seine Kinder by Mirjam Pressler, 
 Klick! Zehn Autoren erzählen einen Roman (Click) by David Almond, Eoin Colfer, Roddy Doyle, Deborah Ellis, Nick Hornby, Gregory Maguire, Margo Lanagan, Ruth Ozeki, Linda Sue Park and Tim Wynne-Jones, 
 Such dir was aus, aber beeil dich! Kindsein in zehn Kapiteln by Nadia Budde, 
 Zweiunddieselbe: "Wie viel von mir bin ich?" by Mary E. Pearson, 
 Rotkäppchen muss weinen by Beate Teresa Hanika, 
 Die Karte meiner Träume (The Selected Works of T.S. Spivet) by Reif Larsen, 
 Non-fiction book:
 Nominees:
 Achtung, fertig, Baustelle! Wie ein Haus geplant und gebaut wird by Rolf Toyka (text), Ferenc B. Regös (illustration) and Heike Ossenkop (Organisation, Photography), 
 Kuckuck, Krake, Kakerlake: Das etwas andere Tierbuch by Bibi Dumon Tak (text) and Fleur van der Weel (illustration), 
 drüben! by Simon Schwartz, 
 Mutige Menschen: Widerstand im dritten Reich by Christian Nürnberger,