# Permanent income hypothesis

The permanent income hypothesis (PIH) is a model in the field of economics to explain the formation of consumption patterns. It suggests consumption patterns are formed from future expectations and consumption smoothing. The theory was developed by Milton Friedman and published in his A Theory of Consumption Function, published in 1957 and subsequently formalized by Robert Hall in a rational expectations model. Originally applied to consumption and income, the process of future expectations is thought to influence other phenomena. In its simplest form, the hypothesis states changes in permanent income (human capital, property, assets), rather than changes in temporary income (unexpected income), are what drive changes in consumption. 

The formation of consumption patterns opposite to predictions was an outstanding problem faced by the Keynesian orthodoxy. Friedman's predictions of consumption smoothing, where people spread out transitory changes in income over time, departed from the traditional Keynesian emphasis on a higher marginal propensity to consume out of current income.

Income consists of a permanent (anticipated and planned) component and a transitory (unexpected and surprising) component. In the permanent income hypothesis model, the key determinant of consumption is an individual's lifetime income, not their current income. Unlike permanent income, transitory incomes are volatile.

Background and history 
Until A Theory of Consumption Function, the Keynesian absolute income hypothesis and interpretation of the consumption function were the most advanced and sophisticated. In its post-war synthesis, the Keynesian perspective was responsible for pioneering many innovations in recession management, economic history, and macroeconomics. Like the neoclassical school that preceded it, early inconsistencies had their roots in socio-political events contrary to the predictions put forward.

The introduction of the absolute income hypothesis is often attributed to John Maynard Keynes, a British economist, who wrote several books which are now the basis for Keynesian economics. The hypothesis put forward by Keynes was accepted and placed into the post–war synthesis. However, inconsistencies were not resolved swiftly, and economists were unable to explain the consistency of the savings rate in the face of rising real incomes (Fig. 1).

Before the neoclassical synthesis was established, Keynes and his hypothesis challenged the orthodoxy of neoclassical economics. As a result of the Great Depression, Keynes rapidly became among the leaders of economic thought. His MPC and MPS spending multipliers developed into the absolute income hypothesis (), and were influential to the government responses to the ensuing depression.

Origins
The American economist Milton Friedman developed the permanent income hypothesis in his 1957 book A Theory of the Consumption Function. In his book, Friedman posits a theory that explained how and why future expectations change consumption.

Friedman's 1957 book A Theory of the Consumption Function created the basis for consumption smoothing. He argued the consumption model, in which outcomes are stochastic, where consumers face risks and uncertainty to their labor incomes, complicates interpretations of indifference curves, and causes consumers to spread out or 'smooth' their spending based on their permanent income, which represents their anticipated income over their lifetimes. Friedman explains this by how, for example, consumers would consistently save more when they expect their long-term income to increase. A further elaboration is provided below:

Theoretical considerations
In his theory, John Maynard Keynes supported economic policy makers by his argument emphasizing their capability of macroeconomic fine tuning. For Keynes, consumption expenditures are linked to disposable income by a parameter called the marginal propensity to consume (the amount per dollar consumers are willing to spend; ). Since the marginal propensity to consume itself is a function of income, it is also true that additional increases in disposable income lead to diminishing increases in consumption expenditures. It must be stressed that the relation characterized by substantial stability links current consumption expenditures to current disposable income—and, on these grounds, a considerable leeway is provided for aggregate demand stimulation, since a change in income immediately results in a multiplied shift in aggregate demand (this is the essence of the Keynesian case of the multiplier effect). The same is true of tax cut policies. According to the basic theory of Keynes, governments are always capable of countercyclical fine tuning of macroeconomic systems through demand management, although Friedman disputes this, arguing in a 1961 journal article that Keynesian macroeconomic fine tuning will succumb to 'long and variable lags.'

The permanent income hypothesis questions this ability of governments. However, it is also true that permanent income theory is concentrated mainly on long run dynamics and relations, while Keynes focused primarily on short run considerations. Friedman's argument, which challenged the use of fiscal policy in smoothing out business cycles, was challenged by stressing the relation between consumption and disposable income still follows (more or less) the mechanism supposed by Keynes. 

Friedman starts elaborating his theory under the assumption of complete certainty. Under such circumstances, for Friedman, two motives exist for a consumer unit to spend more or less on consumption than its income: The first is to smooth its consumption expenditures through appropriate timing of borrowing and lending; and the second is either to realize interest earnings on deposits if the relevant rate of interest is positive, or to benefit from borrowing if the interest rate is negative.

According to the PIH, the distribution of consumption across consecutive periods is the result of an optimizing method by which each consumer tries to maximize his utility. At the same time, whatever ratio of income one devotes to consumption in each period, all these consumption expenditures are allocated in the course of an optimization process—that is, consumer units try to optimize not only across periods but within each period.

Calculation of income and consumption 

Friedman's 1957 book also made an argument for an entirely new way of calculating income (income is represented by the variable ) by differentiating between transitory and permanent income (which was also taken to include ordinal elements like human capital and talents). In A Theory of Consumption Function, Friedman develops:  as a formula. In an earlier study, Friedman, Kuznets (1945), he proposes the idea of transitory and permanent income.

Friedman also developed a consumption formula, , with  meaning the permanent component of consumption, with  being the transitory component. Friedman also drew a distinction between  and . Transitory consumption can be interpreted as surprising or unexpected bills, such as a high water bill, or unexpected doctor's visit, which, in Friedman's mind, cannot be spurred by , because unexpected or 'surprise' consumption is not often financed through windfall gains.

Simple model
Consider a (potentially infinitely lived) consumer who maximizes his expected lifetime utility from the consumption of a stream of goods  between periods  and , as determined by one period utility function . In each period , he receives an income , which he can either spend on a consumption good  or save in the form of an asset  that pays a constant real interest rate  in the next period.

The utility of consumption in future periods is discounted at the rate .
Finally, let  denote the expected value conditional on the information available in period .
Formally, the consumer's problem is then

subject to

Assuming the utility function is quadratic, and that , the optimal consumption choice of the consumer is governed by the Euler equation

Given a finite time horizon of length , we set  with the understanding the consumer spends all his wealth by the end of the last period. Solving the consumer's budget constraint forward to the last period, we determine the consumption function is given by

Over an infinite time horizon, we instead impose a no Ponzi game condition, which prevents the consumer from continuously borrowing and rolling over their debt to future periods, by requiring

The resulting consumption function is then

Both expressions () and  () capture the essence of the permanent income hypothesis: current consumption is determined by a combination of current non human wealth  and human capital wealth .
The fraction of total wealth consumed today further depends on the interest rate  and the length of the time horizon over which the consumer is optimizing.

Liquidity constraints 
Some have attempted to improve Friedman's original hypothesis