# Point system (driving)

Many countries have adopted a penalty point or demerit point system under which a person’s driving license is revoked or suspended based on the number of points they’ve accumulated over a specific period of time, points are given for traffic offenses or infringements committed by them in that period. The demerit points schemes of each jurisdiction varies. These demerit  schemes are usually in addition to fines or other penalties which may be imposed for a particular offence or infringement, or after a prescribed number of points have been accumulated.

Under these schemes, a driver licensing authority, police force, or other organization keeps a record of the demerit points accumulated by drivers. When the prescribed point threshold is reached, the person’s license would usually be automatically revoked or suspended. Points may either be added or subtracted, depending on the rules of each scheme. A major offence may lead to more than the maximum allowed points being issued. Points are typically applied after a driving offense has been committed, and the license is revoked for a defined time, or after other conditions are met. If the total exceeds the threshold, the offender may be disqualified from driving for a time, or the driving license may be revoked. After the license suspension period has expired, the previous demerit points are cancelled.

The primary purpose of such point systems is to identify, determine, and penalize repeat traffic offenders, while streamlining the legal process.

Description 

This article discusses point systems in the abstract and treats points as demerits; in some jurisdictions, points may instead be measures of merit which are subtracted when a traffic offense is committed.

In jurisdictions which use a point system, the police or licensing authorities maintain a record of the demerit points accumulated by each driver. Traffic offenses, such as speeding or disobeying traffic signals, are each assigned a certain number of points, and when a driver is determined to be guilty of a particular offence, the corresponding number of points are added to the driver's total.  When the driver's total exceeds the prescribed threshold, the driver may face additional penalties, be required to attend safety classes or driver training, be subject to re-examination, or lose his/her driving privileges.

The threshold(s) to determine additional penalties may vary based on the driver's experience level, prior driving record, age, educational level attained, and other factors.  In particular, it is common to set a lower threshold for young, inexperienced motorists.

In some jurisdictions, points can also be added if the driver is found to be significantly at fault in a traffic accident.  Points can be removed from a driver's score by the simple passage of time, by a period of time with no violations or accidents, or by the driver's completion of additional drivers' training or traffic safety training.

Major traffic offenses, such as hit and run or drunk driving may or may not be handled within the point system.  Such offenses often carry a mandatory suspension of driving privileges, and may incur penalties such as imprisonment.

Jurisdictions that use a point system

Australia
Traffic laws are the responsibility of the Australian state and territory governments. Demerit points schemes have been adopted by all states and territories, and road authorities share information about interstate offenses.

In all states, drivers holding a full, unrestricted license will be disqualified from driving after accumulating 12 demerit points or more within a three-year period, except in New South Wales, where drivers are allowed 13 points in a three-year period. Those who can prove they are professional drivers are allowed an additional point. The licence suspension period is three months, plus one further month for every extra four points beyond the threshold, with a cap in most states of five months (for 8 points or more over the threshold; e.g. 20 points or more on a full license). As an alternative to accepting immediate suspension, a driver can apply for a "good behavior" period of 12 months. In most states, drivers under a good behavior period who accumulate one or two further points (except in Victoria, which does not allow any further offences) have their licence suspended for double the original period.

Most states also provide for immediate suspension of a licence, instead of or in addition to demerit points, in certain extreme circumstances. These generally include offences for driving under the influence (DUI) of alcohol or other drugs, or for greatly excessive speed.

New South Wales
Provisional licence holders are allowed to incur different numbers of points, depending on their licence class, before their licence is suspended for three months. Holders of a P1 licence, which lasts 12–18 months (which can be renewed), can incur 4 points, and P2 licence holders can incur 7 points in a 24- to 30-month period (which can be renewed). Speeding offences for provisional licence holders incur 4 points, meaning that P1 holders will be suspended after one speeding offence of any speed.

During holiday periods, double demerit points apply for speeding, seatbelt and helmet-related offences. Offences in school zones attract more points than in other areas. Automatic suspensions apply for all drink- and drug-driving offences, as well as speeding by more than 30 km/h.

Victoria
A demerit points scheme was introduced in Victoria in 1970. Learner and probationary drivers who accumulate 5 points or more in a 12-month period may accept a three-month licence suspension or may opt for a 12-month bond. If a driver breaches the bond by incurring 1 point in the 12-month bond period, their licence is suspended for six months. Full licence holders can accumulate 12 points in a 3-year period and are entitled to the same bond option. The list of traffic offences and their respective points is in schedule 3 of the Road Safety (Drivers) Regulations 2009.

In Victoria, drunk-driving offences only result in immediate licence cancellation for unrestricted drivers with a blood alcohol concentration of 0.05 or higher. Readings lower than this have the option of a 10-point penalty being imposed or being taken immediately to court; this option still results in a 4-month suspension for novice drivers. Automatic suspensions apply for higher level charges, and re-licensing may require an order to install an interlocking device onto the vehicle. Automatic suspension periods of at least 3 months also apply for speeding by greater than 25 km/h over the speed limit, or any speed greater than 130 km/h. Penalty points are no longer accrued for excessive speeding offences as of 1 November 2018.

South Australia
In South Australia, if a traffic offence is committed against the Road Traffic Act 1961 or the Australian Road Rules 1999, points may be incurred against a driver’s licence. The number of points incurred depends on the offence and how likely it is to cause a crash. If 12 or more points are accumulated in any 3-year period, a driver will be disqualified from holding or obtaining a driver’s licence or permit. Each 3-year period is calculated based on the dates that offences were committed.

If a driver accumulates:
 12 to 15 points, a driver loses their permission to drive for 3 months.
 16 to 20 points, a driver loses their permission to drive for 4 months.
 20 points or more, a driver loses their permission to drive for 5 months.

Demerit points are incurred whether the offence is committed in South Australia or interstate.

Northern Territory
A demerit points scheme was introduced into the Northern Territory on 1 September 2007. Offences that accrue points include speeding, failing to obey a red traffic light or level crossing signal, failing to wear a seatbelt, drink driving, using a mobile phone, failure to display L or P plates, street racing, burnouts and causing damage.

Learner and provisional drivers are subject to suspension for accumulating 5 points or more over a 12-month period. The 3-year limit of 12 points still applies.

Queensland
In Queensland, provisional or learner drivers may accumulate up to 4 demerit points in a one-year period, and open licence holders 12 demerit points in a three-year period, before receiving a sanction. A driver who exceeds their point threshold may choose between a license suspension for a period of 3 months, or to enter into a 12-month good driving behaviour bond.  If a driver incurs more than one point while subject to a good driving behaviour bond, their license is suspended for a period of 6 months.

Europe

Bulgaria
Bulgaria has implemented a penalty point system with a total of 34 points, introduced in 1999. In 2017, this was increased to 39 points.

Denmark

Denmark has a penalty point system that penalizes drivers with a klip ("cut/stamp") for certain traffic violations. The term klip refers to a klippekort