AI/ML Research

Title: CT‐based synthetic iodine map generation using conditional denoising diffusion probabilistic model

Abstract:
BACKGROUND: Iodine maps, derived from image-processing of contrast-enhanced dual-energy computed tomography (DECT) scans, highlight the differences in tissue iodine intake. It finds multiple applications in radiology, including vascular imaging, pulmonary evaluation, kidney assessment, and cancer diagnosis. In radiation oncology, it can contribute to designing more accurate and personalized treatment plans. However, DECT scanners are not commonly available in radiation therapy centers. Additionally, the use of iodine contrast agents is not suitable for all patients, especially those allergic to iodine agents, posing further limitations to the accessibility of this technology. PURPOSE: The purpose of this work is to generate synthetic iodine map images from non-contrast single-energy CT (SECT) images using conditional denoising diffusion probabilistic model (DDPM). METHODS: One-hundered twenty-six head-and-neck patients' images were retrospectively investigated in this work. Each patient underwent non-contrast SECT and contrast DECT scans. Ground truth iodine maps were generated from contrast DECT scans using commercial software syngo.via installed in the clinic. A conditional DDPM was implemented in this work to synthesize iodine maps. Three-fold cross-validation was conducted, with each iteration selecting the data from 42 patients as the test dataset and the remainder as the training dataset. Pixel-to-pixel generative adversarial network (GAN) and CycleGAN served as reference methods for evaluating the proposed DDPM method. RESULTS: The accuracy of the proposed DDPM was evaluated using three quantitative metrics: mean absolute error (MAE) (1.039 ± 0.345 mg/mL), structural similarity index measure (SSIM) (0.89 ± 0.10) and peak signal-to-noise ratio (PSNR) (25.4 ± 3.5 db) respectively. Compared to the reference methods, the proposed technique showcased superior performance across the evaluated metrics, further validated by the paired two-tailed t-tests. CONCLUSION: The proposed conditional DDPM framework has demonstrated the feasibility of generating synthetic iodine map images from non-contrast SECT images. This method presents a potential clinical application, which is providing accurate iodine contrast map in instances where only non-contrast SECT is accessible.