# Random permutation statistics

The statistics of random permutations, such as the cycle structure of a random permutation are of fundamental importance in the analysis of algorithms, especially of sorting algorithms, which operate on random permutations. Suppose, for example, that we are using quickselect (a cousin of quicksort) to select a random element of a random permutation. Quickselect will perform a partial sort on the array, as it partitions the array according to the pivot. Hence a permutation will be less disordered after quickselect has been performed. The amount of disorder that remains may be analysed with generating functions. These generating functions depend in a fundamental way on the generating functions of random permutation statistics. Hence it is of vital importance to compute these generating functions.

The article on random permutations contains an introduction to random permutations.

The fundamental relation 

Permutations are sets of labelled cycles. Using the labelled case of the Flajolet–Sedgewick fundamental theorem and writing  for the set of permutations and  for the singleton set, we have

Translating into exponential generating functions (EGFs), we have

where we have used the fact that the EGF of the combinatorial species of permutations (there are n! permutations of n elements) is

This one equation allows one to derive a large number of permutation statistics. Firstly, by dropping terms from , i.e. exp, we may constrain the number of cycles that a permutation contains, e.g. by restricting the EGF to  we obtain permutations containing two cycles. Secondly, note that the EGF of labelled cycles, i.e. of , is

because there are k! / k labelled cycles.  This means that by dropping terms from this generating function, we may constrain the size of the cycles that occur in a permutation and obtain an EGF of the permutations containing only cycles of a given size.

Instead of removing and selecting cycles, one can also put different weights on different size cycles. If  is a weight function that depends only on the size k of the cycle and for brevity we write

defining the value of b for a permutation  to be the sum of its values on the cycles, then we may mark cycles of length k with ub(k) and obtain a two-variable generating function 

This is a "mixed" generating function: it is an exponential generating function in z and an ordinary generating function in the secondary parameter u. Differentiating and evaluating at u = 1, we have

This is the probability generating function of the expectation of b.  In other words, the coefficient of  in this power series is the expected value of b on permutations in , given that each permutation is chosen with the same probability .

This article uses the coefficient extraction operator [zn], documented on the page for formal power series.

Number of permutations that are involutions 

An involution is a permutation σ so that σ2 = 1 under permutation composition. It follows that σ may only contain cycles of length one or two, i.e. the exponential generating function g(z) of these permutations is

This gives the explicit formula for the total number  of involutions among the permutations σ ∈ Sn:

Dividing by n! yields the probability that a random permutation is an involution.
These numbers are known as telephone numbers.

Number of permutations that are mth roots of unity 

This generalizes the concept of an involution. An mth root of unity is a permutation σ so that σm = 1 under permutation composition. Now every time we apply σ we move one step in parallel along all of its cycles. A cycle of length d applied d times produces the identity permutation on d elements (d fixed points) and d is the smallest value to do so. Hence m must be a multiple of all cycle sizes d, i.e. the only possible cycles are those whose length d is a divisor of m. It follows that the EGF g(x) of these permutations is

When m = p, where p is prime, this simplifies to

Number of permutations of order exactly k
This one can be done by Möbius inversion. Working with the same concept as in the previous entry we note that the combinatorial species  of permutations whose order divides k is given by

Translation to exponential generating functions we obtain the EGF of permutations whose order divides k, which is

Now we can use this generating function to count permutations of order exactly k. Let  be the number of permutations on n whose order is exactly d and  the number of permutations on n the permutation count whose order divides k. 
Then we have

It follows by Möbius inversion that

Therefore, we have the EGF

The desired count is then given by 

This formula produces e.g. for k = 6 the EGF

with the sequence of values starting at n = 5
 

For k = 8 we get the EGF

with the sequence of values starting at n = 8
 

Finally for k = 12 we get the EGF

with the sequence of values starting at n = 7

Number of permutations that are derangements 

Suppose there are n people at a party, each of whom brought an umbrella. At the end of the party everyone picks an umbrella out of the stack of umbrellas and leaves. What is the probability that no one left with his/her own umbrella? This problem is equivalent to counting permutations with no fixed points (called derangements), and hence the EGF, where we subtract out fixed points (cycles of length 1)  by removing the term z from the fundamental relation is

Multiplication by  sums the coefficients of , so , the total number of derangements, is given by:

Hence there are about  derangements and the probability that a random permutation is a derangement is 

This result may also be proved by inclusion–exclusion. Using the sets  where  to denote the set of permutations that fix p, we have

This formula counts the number of permutations that have at least one fixed point.
The cardinalities are as follows:

Hence the number of permutations with no fixed point is

 

or

 

and we have the claim.

There is a generalization of these numbers, which is known as rencontres numbers, i.e.
the number  of permutations of  containing m fixed points.
The corresponding EGF is obtained by marking cycles of size one with the variable u, 
i.e. choosing b(k) equal to one for  and zero otherwise, which yields
the generating function  of the set of permutations by the number of fixed points:

 

It follows that

and hence

This immediately implies that

for n large, m fixed.

Order of a random permutation 

If P is a permutation, the order of P is the smallest positive integer n for which  is the identity permutation.  This is the least common multiple of the lengths of the cycles of P.

A theorem of Goh and Schmutz
states that if  is the expected order of a random permutation of size n, then

where the constant c is

Derangements containing an even and an odd number of cycles 

We can use the same construction as in the previous section to compute the number of derangements  containing an even number of cycles and the number  containing an odd number of cycles. To do this we need to mark all cycles and subtract fixed points, giving

Now some very basic reasoning shows that the EGF  of  is given by

We thus have

which is

Subtracting  from , we find

The difference of these two ( and ) is

One hundred prisoners 

A prison warden wants to make room in his prison and is considering liberating one hundred prisoners, thereby freeing one hundred cells. He therefore assembles one hundred prisoners and asks them to play the following game: he lines up one hundred urns in a row, each containing the name of one prisoner, where every prisoner's name occurs exactly once. The game is played as follows: every prisoner is allowed to look inside fifty urns. If he or she does not find his or her name in one of the fifty urns, all prisoners will immediately be executed, otherwise the game continues. The prisoners have a few moments to decide on a strategy, knowing that once the game has begun, they will not be able to communicate with each other, mark the urns in any way or move the urns or the names inside them. Choosing urns at random, their chances of survival are almost zero, but there is a strategy giving them a 30% chance of survival, assuming that the names are assigned to urns randomly – what is it?

First of all, the survival probability using random choices is

so this is definitely not a practical strategy.

The 30% survival strategy is to consider the contents of the urns to be a permutation of the prisoners, and traverse cycles. To keep the notation simple, assign a number to each prisoner, for example by sorting their names alphabetically. The urns may thereafter be considered to contain numbers rather than names. Now clearly the contents of the urns define a permutation. The first prisoner opens the first urn. If he finds his name, he has finished and survives. Otherwise he opens the urn with the number he found in the first urn. The process repeats: the prisoner opens an urn and survives if he finds his na