# Riverside-Albert

Riverside-Albert is a former village in Hopewell Parish of Albert County, New Brunswick, Canada. It was an incorporated village until the end of 2022 and is now part of the village of Fundy Albert.

Riverside-Albert is located on the Shepody River at the edge of the Shepody Marsh. The community of Harvey Parish is located across the river. It is approximately halfway between two major tourist destinations: Fundy National Park and the Hopewell Rocks.

Post office called Albert from 1875; Riverside from 1875 to 1932; Riverside from 1932.

The Trans Canada Trail passes through Riverside-Albert.

History

Riverside and Albert both appear as communities on the cadastral land grant map of the area.

Albert was originally called Hopewell Hill but the inhabitants resolved to rename it Albert in 1881 due to there being four communities named Hopewell within 12 miles of each other. In 1898 Albert was the terminus of the Salisbury and Harvey Railway, with a population of 500.

Riverside, originally River Side, was a station on the Salisbury and Hillsborough Railway, with a population of 300 in 1871. The post office was renamed Riverside in 1932.

The local improvement district of Riverside-Albert was incorporated on 29 December 1947. The local improvement district became a village in 1966 under the new Municipalities Act.

On 1 January 2023, the village of Riverside-Albert amalgamated with the villages of Alma and Hillsborough and parts of five local service districts to form the new village of Fundy Albert. The community's name remains in official use.

Demographics 
In the 2021 Census of Population conducted by Statistics Canada, Riverside-Albert had a population of  living in  of its  total private dwellings, a change of  from its 2016 population of . With a land area of , it had a population density of  in 2021.

Notable people

Notable residents have included Abner Reid McClelan and Roscoe Fillmore.

See also
 List of communities in New Brunswick
 Royal eponyms in Canada

References

External links
 Riverside-Albert website

Communities in Albert County, New Brunswick
Former villages in New Brunswick