# Lena Horne Theatre

The Lena Horne Theatre (previously the Mansfield Theatre and the Brooks Atkinson Theatre) is a Broadway theater at 256 West 47th Street in the Theater District of Midtown Manhattan in New York City. Opened in 1926, it was designed by Herbert J. Krapp in a Spanish Revival style and was constructed for Irwin Chanin. It has 1,069 seats across two levels and is operated by the Nederlander Organization. Both the facade and the auditorium interior are New York City landmarks.

The facade is divided into two sections: the four-story stage house to the west, covered in buff-colored brick, and the three-story auditorium to the east, designed with yellow-beige brick and terracotta. The ground floor, which contains the theater's entrance, is shielded by a marquee. Above is a set of Palladian windows on the second story, as well as rectangular sash windows with lunettes on the third story. The facade is topped by an entablature and a sloping tiled roof. The auditorium contains ornamental plasterwork, a sloped orchestra level, a large balcony, and a coved ceiling. The balcony level contains box seats near the front of the auditorium, above which are murals.

The Mansfield Theatre was developed with the Biltmore (now Samuel J. Friedman) Theatre across the street, opening on February 15, 1926. The Mansfield struggled to attract hits from its opening until 1945 when Michael Myerberg bought it. In 1950, the Mansfield was leased to CBS for television productions under the name Studio 59. When Myerberg returned it to legitimate use in September 1960, he renamed it after the former New York Times theater critic Brooks Atkinson. The Nederlander Organization purchased a partial ownership stake in the Brooks Atkinson Theatre in 1967 and became a full owner in 1974. Following a renovation in 2000, the theater has hosted several shows in the 21st century, such as the musical Waitress. On November 1, 2022, the theater was renamed after Black singer-actress Lena Horne.

Site
The Lena Horne Theatre is at 258 West 47th Street, on the south sidewalk between Eighth Avenue and Broadway, near Times Square in the Theater District of Midtown Manhattan in New York City. The square land lot covers , with a frontage of  on 47th Street and a depth of 100 feet. The Lena Horne shares the block with the Paramount Hotel to the south and the Hotel Edison and Lunt-Fontanne Theatre to the east. Other nearby buildings include the Samuel J. Friedman Theatre to the north; the Ethel Barrymore Theatre and Longacre Theatre to the northeast; the Richard Rodgers Theatre and Imperial Theatre to the south; and the off-Broadway 47th Street Theatre to the west.

Design 
The Lena Horne Theatre, originally the Mansfield Theatre, was designed by Herbert J. Krapp in a modern Spanish style and was constructed in 1926 for the Chanin brothers. The theater was originally named for British actor Richard Mansfield (1857–1907). From 1960 to 2022, it was named for Brooks Atkinson (1894–1984), who was the theater critic for The New York Times from 1925 to 1960. Since 2022, the theater has been named for African-American actress and singer Lena Horne (1917–2010). The Lena Horne is operated by the Nederlander Organization.

Facade 
The facade consists of two sections. The three-story-tall eastern section is wider and is symmetrical, containing the auditorium entrance. It is made of yellow-beige brick with white terracotta decorations. The western section, which contains the stage house, is four stories high and contains a brick facade. The third story of the auditorium is on an intermediate level between the third and fourth stories of the stage house.

Auditorium section 

The first story of the auditorium's facade is symmetrically arranged. There is a water table made of terrazzo, above which are rusticated terracotta blocks made in ashlar. Several openings are placed within the first story. The easternmost opening contains recessed metal doors with sign boards. At the center are five metal double doors connecting with the box office lobby. The westernmost opening consists of a metal stage door. Sign boards are placed on the wall to the left (east) of the center openings, as well as on two of the double doors to the right (west) of center. A marquee hangs over the five center doorways and the immediate adjacent sign boards.

On the upper stories, the auditorium is arranged into three sections from left to right. The auditorium's outermost openings, on the second and third stories, have a single six-over-six sash window on either story. Lunettes with rosettes are placed above each of these windows. These windows are surrounded by a brick band, which is laid in a pattern resembling an arch. At the top of this arch is a molding with corbels, as well as a brick panel with bond work in a basket-weave pattern. Above this are terracotta friezes with fleur-de-lis and rosette patterns, topped by a brick parapet.

The central section contains three Palladian window frames at the second floor, with bracket-shaped keystones above each window. Twisting colonettes divide the openings in each Palladian frame, while the outer sections of the windows are bordered by pilasters with Corinthian-style capitals. The center opening is an open-air loggia, behind which is a fire stair with an iron railing. The other two Palladian openings contain sash windows. At the third story, there are three openings, surrounded by twisting moldings and a terracotta frame. The center opening is a ventilation grate while the other two contain six-over-six sash windows. All three window openings have a lunette with rosette above them. Between the window openings are medallions that depict lyres. A sign with the name "Brooks Atkinson" projects from the western side of the third floor. Brackets run above the third floor, supporting a cornice and a Spanish tile roof.

Stage house section 

The Lena Horne Theatre's stage house is much simpler in design, with a terrazzo water table. Unlike in the auditorium section, all four stories are faced in brick. At ground level, there is a doorway and a garage opening, between which are two bricked-up window openings. A string course runs above the ground story. On each of the second through fourth floors, there are three sash windows with two-over-two panes, and a brick lintel is placed above each window. The stage house is topped by a cornice and a parapet.

Auditorium  
The auditorium has an orchestra level, one balcony, boxes, and a stage behind the proscenium arch. The auditorium space is designed with plaster decorations in low relief. According to the Nederlander Organization, the auditorium has 1,069 seats; meanwhile, The Broadway League cites a capacity of 1,094 seats and Playbill cites 1,045 seats. The Lena Horne Theatre is designed in a Spanish style and originally had a seating capacity of 1,125. The interior design scheme was overseen by Roman Meltzer, who was the architect for Russian emperor Nicholas II.

Seating areas 
The rear (east) end of the orchestra contains a promenade with paneled walls and a molded cornice. The orchestra is raked, sloping down toward the stage. There are two columns between the orchestra and the promenade, between which is a decorative railing. Two staircases, with decorative metal railings, lead from either end of the promenade to the balcony level. The orchestra's north (right) wall has doors from the lobby, while the south (left) and rear walls contain exit doors. There are foliate swag motifs on either side of the exit signs above the doors.  The orchestra's side walls contain decorative panels. Bronze lighting sconces are placed along the walls of the orchestra and its promenade.

The balcony level is divided into front and rear sections by an aisle halfway across the depth. On either side of the crossover aisle are exit doors, which are placed between pilasters and wall panels on either side. Above the exit doors are arch decorations and a frieze with swags. The rest of the balcony's side walls contain panels, which are divided into upper and lower sections, with foliate decorations in the upper panels and plain decorations in the lower panels. A cornice runs above all of the walls. The front rail of the balcony contains shields and foliate decorations. Light boxes are installed on the front rail. The underside of the balcony has plasterwork panels with crystal light fixtures suspended from medallions. Air-conditioning vents are placed along some of the panels under the balcony.

On either side of the proscenium is a curved wall section with three arches, each of which corresponds to a box at balcony level. The wall section  is flanked by fluted pilasters with Corinthian-style gilded capitals. At orchestra level, the wall sections contain a false rusticated wall with three rectangular openings. The undersides of the boxes contain crystal light fixtures similar to those on the balcony. The fronts of the boxes are curved outward and contain shields and foli