# Transdev Germany

Transdev Germany is the largest private operator of passenger buses and trains in Germany. It is a subsidiary of Transdev.

History

In 1997, Aktiengesellschaft für Industrie und Verkehrswesen was purchased by a CGEA Group (60%) EnBW (40%) consortium. In 2000, CGEA bought EnBW's shares and rebranded the operation Connex Verkehr. in April 2006 it was rebranded as Veolia Verkehr, and following the merger of Transdev and Veolia Transport as Transdev in March 2015.

Transdev, as was the case with Veolia and Connex, operates dozens of subsidiaries, each with their own name. Most of them operate small, regional train and bus services.

Rail services 

Transdev subsidiaries operate the following services:
 Bayerische Oberlandbahn GmbH, Holzkirchen, and Bayerische Regiobahn GmbH, Augsburg, with these shared brands
 BRB Oberland (formerly BOB),
 BRB Chiemgau-Inntal (formerly Meridian),
 BRB Ammersee-Altmühltal and
 BRB Ostallgäu-Lechfeld
 BRB Berchtesgaden-Ruhpolding
 NordWestBahn GmbH, Osnabrück
 Transdev Rhein-Ruhr GmbH, Duisburg with the brand
 RheinRuhrBahn
 Transdev Hannover GmbH, Hannover
 Transdev Regio Ost GmbH, Leipzig, and Bayerische Oberlandbahn GmbH, Holzkirchen, with the shared brand
 Mitteldeutsche Regiobahn
 Transdev Sachsen-Anhalt GmbH, Halberstadt
 Trans Regio Deutsche Regionalbahn GmbH, Koblenz (with the brand MRB Mittelrheinbahn)
 Württembergische Eisenbahn-Gesellschaft mbH (with the brand WEG), Waiblingen; it operates rail services on four lines
 Transdev Verkehr GmbH, Moers (evolved from Rhenus Veniro); it operates rail services on three lines
 Freiberger Eisenbahn (Nossen–Moldava railway)
 Hunsrückbahn
 Moselwein-Bahn

Other transport activities
Transdev’s German operations have been structured into four regions since April 2005.

North

Region North includes the federal states of Hamburg and Schleswig-Holstein and a short line in Denmark. In this region, the Niebüller Verkehrsbetriebe (NVB) and the Nord-Ostsee-Bahn (NOB) operate: 
 Niebüller Verkehrsbetriebe, a bus company operating ten bus lines with a length of about 530 km (about 330 miles). It has nineteen employees and carries about 680,000 passengers each year. Its main shareholder is the Nord-Ostsee-Bahn;
 Nord-Ostsee-Bahn has been operating a 237-kilometre-long (150 mi) railway service between the island of Sylt and Hamburg since December 12, 2005. The corporate name translates to North and Baltic Sea Railway. It was the first private train operator to offer such a long route. Nord-Ostsee-Bahn also operates the routes Kiel - Husum, Husum - Sankt Peter-Ording, Kiel - Neumünster (together with Deutsche Bahn), Niebüll - Tønder (Denmark) and the bus line Brunsbüttel - Glückstadt. They have more than 250 employees, run about 7.1 million km (4.4 million miles) per year, carry 7 million passengers each year and operate a railway network that is 431 km (270 miles) long.

It is planned to extend these trains from Hamburg on to Berlin and Cologne under the operation of "Ostseeland Verkehrs GmbH" (OLA), which runs all Veolia long-distance trains in Germany. Unlike the trains between Sylt and Hamburg, the trains from Hamburg to Berlin and Cologne are not subsidised by any State of Germany

East
(Berlin, Brandenburg, Mecklenburg-Vorpommern, Saxony, Saxony-Anhalt and Thuringia)

 SaxBus Eilenburger Busverkehr: urban bus lines
 Transdev Sachsen-Anhalt
 Transdev Regio Ost(formerly: Veolia Verkehr Regio Ost and Connex Sachsen)
 Niederschlesische Verkehrs-Gesellschaft
 Ostseelandverkehr (OLA): the result of a merger between Ostmecklenburgische Eisenbahngesellschaft mbH (OME) and MecklenburgBahn (MeBa)
 Schöneicher-Rüdersdorfer Straßenbahn GmbH: Tram line linking Berlin suburbs to Friedrichshagen S-Bahn station
 Taeter Tours (Dresden)
 Verkehrsgesellschaft Görlitz, urban network of 2 tram lines

West
(Bremen, Hesse, Lower Saxony, North Rhine-Westphalia, Rhineland-Palatinate and Saarland)
 Alpina Bad Homburg GmbH
 Alpina Limburg GmbH & Co KG
 Alpina Rhein-Main GmbH & Co KG
 Düren trans GmbH
 Farge-Vegesacker Eisenbahn (FVE), (Bremen)
 Habus Verkehrsbetriebe (Hagen): urban bus lines
 Nassauische Verkehrs-Gesellschaft
 NordWestBahn (NWB)
 Transdev Hannover
 PalatinaBus (Edenkoben)
 RegioBus Gütersloh
 Rheinisch-Bergische Eisenbahn (RBE) (Mettmann)
 Stadtbus Bad Kreuznach (SBK) 
 Stadtbus Zweibrücken (SBZ) 
 Schaumburger Verkehrs-Gesellschaft
 TAETER GmbH & Co KG (Aachen)
 Teutoburger Wald Eisenbahn-Gesellschaft (TWE), (Gütersloh)
 TWE-Busverkehrs
 Transdev Hannover GmbH
 Verkehrsgesellschaft Idar-Oberstein (VIO)

South
(Baden-Württemberg and Bavaria)

 Bayerische Oberlandbahn (BOB)
 Bayerische Regiobahn (BRB), Holzkirchen and Augsburg
 J.P. Griensteidl (Gröbenzell)
 Heidenheimer Verkehrsgesellschaft mbH,
 Omnibus-Verkehr Ruoff (Waiblingen)
 Stadtbus Schwäbisch Hall: urban bus lines
 Stadtverkehr Pforzheim GmbH & Co. KG (SVP), urban bus lines
 Württembergische Eisenbahn-Gesellschaft mbH (WEG), (Waiblingen): regional trains

Operations absorbed from old Transdev
In addition to the above operations, Transdev also operates buses that were formerly part of the old Transdev.
 Ahrweiler Verkehrsgesellschaft, Brohl-Lützing
 Mittelrheinischer Verkehrsbetrieb, Neuwied
 Verkehrsbetrieb Lahn-Dill, Limburg
 Verkehrsbetrieb Rhein Eifel Mosel, Neuwied
 Verkehrsbetrieb Rhein Lahn, Bogel
 Verkehrsbetrieb Rhein Westerwald, Puderbach

Former long distance rail operations
From 2001 to 2014, Transdev (known at the time as Veolia) ran a number of long distance trains:

InterConnex

The Interconnex ran between Leipzig and Berlin, up to three times each way, Monday to Friday. On Saturdays, the train ran from Leipzig to Rostock via Berlin and back on Sunday. The locomotives and carriages were provided by the Nord-Ostsee-Bahn. It commenced on 1 March 2002 as the first open access operator in Germany.

Previously, the service was run all the way between Rostock - Berlin - Leipzig - Gera using Bombardier Talent diesel multiple units. This service commenced in December 2001 under the flag of Ostseeland Verkeher Since those trains were constructed for regional use, longer journeys were quite unpleasant. Only later were they fitted with more comfortable long distance seats. From the beginning on they had a BoardBistro. This train was conceptualized as a compensation for the cancelled Deutsche Bahn trains between Rostock and Leipzig. The trains offered three classes: Traveler, Economy and Business. Each of them with a different kind of service. These classes disappeared in May 2006, when the train service was shortened to Leipzig - Berlin.

There was a period of transition for this service between May and December 2006. During this period, a shuttle train ran between Gera and Leipzig consisting of a Siemens Desiro diesel multiple unit. In this period, the train service already ran twice a day only between Leipzig and Berlin, stopping at Berlin Potsdamer Platz (and some trains also at Bitterfeld). On Saturdays the train went all the way to Warnemünde via Neustrelitz, Waren and Rostock, making the return trip on Sundays. On Sundays it drove back from Warnemünde to Berlin and further to Leipzig. This service ceased on 13 December 2014.

Harz-Berlin-Express

Since December 2005, Veolia subcontractor HarzElbeExpress (HEX) has been operating the Harz-Berlin-Express from Berlin via the lines to Magdeburg and Halberstadt to Thale in the Harz on weekends. This route was previously operated by Deutsche Bahn.

InterConnex 2/Ostseeland Express

Interconnex 2, which was officially called the Ostseeland Express (OLX) since December 2005, ran between Stralsund, Berlin and Dresden. It came into operation in December 2004, starting at first at Zittau and then running via Berlin to Stralsund, with a summer extension to Rügen. In the summer of 2004, it was even extended at the Zittau side all the way to Liberec in the Czech Republic. Shuttle buses operated from Dresden and Usedom. However, at the timetable modification of December 2004, the route was changed to a shorter stretch. It was abandoned in late 2006.

InterConnex 3

A third line between Rostock and Cologne ran between 6 June and 27 October 2003.

Freight trains
In January 2002, Connex Cargo Logistics commenced operating freight services. In 2009 it was sold to SNCF.

References

External links
Company website

Companies based in Berlin
Private railway companies of Germany
Railway companies of Denmark
Transdev
Veolia