# List of South African slang words

South Africa is a diverse country with 12 official languages, and many citizens will speak two or more languages. It is very common to mix languages in casual conversations, on social media, or in music lyrics.

This is a list of commonly used terms and phases across Southern Africa per the United Nations geoscheme for Africa, including mainly South Africa and the neighbouring countries of Botswana, eSwatini (formerly Swaziland), Lesotho, and Namibia. From a linguistic perspective, the Eastern African countries of Mozambique and Zimbabwe are typically included, as well.

Curse words and slurs 
South Africa is a country formed from centuries of immigrants, settlers, and colonisers. It has a long history of using racial slurs or derogatory phrases when speaking of the other. Some such words have more recently been reclaimed as a mark of pride and defiance (for example, coloured).

"Voetsek", or simply "tsek", is a fun way of telling someone to "fuck off". This is also used to scare unwanted animals away.

"Jou Ma se gat" or "Jou Ma se poes" is a derogatory phrase that literally translates to "Your Mom's hole" or "Your Mom's vagina". This is often seen as more aggressive than the aforementioned phrase "voetsek".

Colloquial phrases

Time 
Normally, in other English-speaking countries, when you say you're doing something "now", you would assume it means that you will do said thing right away. In South Africa, the phrases "now now", "just now", and "right now" all have differing connotations: "Now now" often means minutes later; "just now" means hours later; and "right now" actually means now.

For example, the following line using South African slang:

...actually has the following meaning in standard usageL:

Slang words from English 
South Africa uses British English spelling and punctuation, although some American spellings are common.

 aswell – increasingly pronounced with emphasis on the "as".
 awe – A word that could mean anything, but generally used to convey emphasis (e.g., "Awe, how you doing?"; "Awe, thank you boss").
 boykie or boytjie – meaning a young male who is cool in the high-school stereotype kind of way. Sporty and tanned, uses a lot of slang. From English "boy" and the Afrikaans diminutive "-tjie".
 boy – a disrespectful term used to describe a black man or a young male of any ethnicity, depending on context. A elderly black gardener may be referred to as a garden boy.
 buddy -  while the original English meaning stays intact, it also refers to the 500ml/440ml bottles of Soft drink, for example: "Can I get a buddy Coke?"
 boss – originating from a person being a boss. People started calling people boss in a friendly manner.
 baff – act of flatulence, for example: "Did you baff?"
 boney – Bicycle or motorbike
 bru – male friend (shortening of brother)
 breakdown – an average pick-up truck that has been specially modified into a tow-truck. Often modified for performance.
 buttons – mandrax tablet
 canyon crab – derogatory term for Afrikaner
 carrots –  broken, done over, beaten up.
 chase – leave, go; analogous to "blow" or "duck", as in "Bru, let's chase."; "This place is dof; I'm gonna chase, boet."
 chips or cherps – "Watch out" or "Move out the way", as in "Chips chips everyone, here comes the teacher!" (distinct from the food or snack). Also often used when something gets thrown, or to ask someone to step out the way. Compare "heads up!"
 choef - A vape, usually a disposable vape - can be used as a verb aswell; "Jonno was choefing"
 chop – idiot
 chow – to eat something (Bunny chow, an Indian South African fast food dish)
 chot – an offensive term for a sexually active female
 civvies – taken from the English term "civilian wear", it refers to day-to-day clothes worn when out of school or military uniform. Casual Fridays are encouraged annually due to the public school system's dress code employing a uniform, similar to European school dress codes. Once or twice a year students are encouraged to come to school in their civvies.
 clutchplate – derogatory term for Afrikaner
 coconut – lit. coconut fruit; can be used as a racist remark towards black people who behave like Caucasians, "brown on the outside, white on the inside".
 connection – a friend, mate, chommie
 cozzie – a swimsuit, short for swimming costume
 crunchie – derogatory term for Afrikaner
 diss – to intentionally disregard somebody else. That oke is totally dissing me
 double-up – simply means a lesser-known shortcut
 duck/dip – To leave or go, primarily when talking about leaving a location, from the English "duck" (derived from but not related to the bird)."Im gonna make a duck from this party, bru"
 flip – A euphemism for the vulgar f-word. Used in various phrases to express anger, annoyance, contempt, impatience, or surprise, or simply for emphasis.
 force -when someone does something unnecessarily, too many times for the given situation or adds something to a conversation that is not necessary (It is a noun and verb)
 give rocks – to be indifferent. For example: "I give rocks about your concerns!" (I couldn't care about your concerns!) Can also be abbreviated to "Give rocks.", and the negative version "I don't give rocks" means exactly the same thing.
 giyn – a homosexual male
 graze – a term used in reference to food. "I'm starving, let's go get some graze."
 grafting – for a person to be working
 higher grade – a bit too complicated (from the South African matric division of exams into standard grade and higher grade. The system of dividing subjects into higher and standard grade has become non-existent as of 2008.)
 howzit – lit. "how is it". An informal greeting similar to "hi", often replied to with another "howzit". It is important to note that the last thing anyone expects is for you to actually start telling them how things are. Similar to "How do you do?" 
 hundreds – good, fine, as in 100 percent; for example: Splaff: "Howzit bru, how are you?" Bazza: "I'm hundreds boet."
 jukka – a lazy person or a loser
 just now, sometime in the near future or the near past, not necessarily immediately. Expresses an intention to act soon, but not necessarily immediately, or expresses something that happened in the near past.  Probably from the Afikaans netnou with the same meaning.
 Dutchman – derogatory term for Afrikaner
 glug-glug, ama-glug-glug – lit. the sound made by a flowing liquid through a small opening, like a bottle being emptied. Also refers to a viral television advertisement from the 1980s (involving a little boy playing with his toy Ferrari Testarossa) by the South African Oil company, Sasol. The term also became one of Sasol's signature slogans. Amaglug-glug is a youth football team.
 isit – (pronounced: \izit\) the words "is" and "it" put together. Short term for "Is that so?" (For example: John: "Bra, I just found out I have a million dollars!" Charles: "Isit?"; or: John: "Bru, you would not believe how amazing it felt to footskate in front of all those people." Charles: "Isit?") Also, it can mean "really?"
 kief – nice, good, cool
 kokie pen –  a felt tip pen, similar to a sharpie.
 lokshin – a Bantu township, from the alternate term, "location".
 now now – an immediate but not literal declaration of impending action, may be past or future tense. From the Afrikaans expression "nou nou".
 OK – lit. "okay" (alternatively pronounced in Afrikaans as "oë-kah") while its original English meaning stays intact, it is also the name of a local retail franchise owned by Shoprite. When used in conjunction with the original word "okay", the franchise's name can become a source of comedy, for example: "I'm at the OK, okay!"
 packet or "checkers packet" – a plastic bag
 penalty – refers to someone tripping (usually shouted if someone almost trips)
 Peppermint Crisp – is a milk chocolate bar invented in South Africa by Wilson-Rowntree, now produced by Swiss chocolatier Nestlé. It features thin layers of milk chocolate and tubes of mint-flavoured crunch. It is also popularly used as a topping on a milk-based tart that shares its name.
 Prestik – brand name for a sticky substance normally used to attach paper to walls, similar to Blutack
 pong – refers to a strong sense of stench or bad odor.
 pull through (pull in) – come or arrive, especially to a place/event that is amenable: "We're having a great jol here, boet. You should pull through."
 pull – to kiss someone 
 poes – an Afrikaans word for cat now turned swear word. Normally means something derogatory; "That oak was so rude bru." "Yeah no he was a proper poes bru."
 rate – when you think you should do something; "I rate we go to the club on Friday."
 robot – alongside its original English meaning, it is also used exclusively in South Africa, to refer to a traffic light. Originating from traffic guards during the British colonization period, for moving like a robot while directing traffic. Though the traffic guard has largely been replaced by the traffic light, the name stuck.
 rockspider