# Stark Industries

Stark Industries, later also known as Stark International, Stark Innovations, Stark Enterprises and Stark Resilient, is a fictional multi-national conglomerate appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. Created by Frans Robert Bernstein, Stan Lee, and Jack Kirby, the company first appeared in Tales of Suspense #39 (April 1962). Stark Industries is depicted as being owned and run by businessman and namesake Tony Stark, who is also known as Iron Man, and was founded by Tony's father, Howard Stark, from whom he inherited the company.

In the Marvel Cinematic Universe, Stark Industries has a logo modeled after the defense contractor Lockheed Martin and is listed on the New York Stock Exchange as SIA.  During the press conference scene, Stark is seen entering a building that resembles the entrance to Lockheed Martin's Skunk Works facility.  An airplane similar to the Lockheed YF-22 stood as a statue in front of the Stark Industries facility, much like the prototypes on display at Skunk Works facility in Palmdale, California.

Publication history 
Stark Industries first appeared in Tales of Suspense #40 (April 1963), created by Robert Bernstein, Stan Lee, and Jack Kirby.

History
Stark Industries was founded by Isaac Stark, Sr. in the 19th century and later taken over by Howard Stark and then by his son Tony, after his death. Over the years, through bankruptcy, Tony's "death", Tony's return and hostile takeovers, the company has gone through many name changes including Stark International (later Stane International), Stark Enterprises, Stark/Fujikawa and Stark Solutions.

Stark Industries

Functions
Stark Industries is primarily a defense company that develops and manufactures advanced weapons and military technologies. The company manufactures the armor worn by Iron Man and War Machine. It builds the helicarriers used by S.H.I.E.L.D, and it produces the Quinjets used by the Avengers

Staff
 Tony Stark – Chairman of Stark Industries
 Obadiah Stane – Executive Officer (deceased)
 Happy Hogan – Former head of Security 
 Pepper Potts – CEO 
 Dr. Gray Armond – Head Designer.
 Harmon Furmintz – Member of Stark Industries' biochemical division. He worked for Genetech and was born around 1918. He was a child prodigy and recruited as candidate for Super Soldier Project, but was rejected due to having hemophilia. He attempted to gain the power of Terrax, but his body and mind were destroyed by Shafear and reformed into duplicate of his own.
 Jacob Fury (Scorpio) – Former research scientist.
 Sally McIntyre
 Eddie March – Former part of the Iron Legion.
 Kevin O’Bryan
 Ralph Roberts
 Anton Vanko (Crimson Dynamo) — Former Head Scientist and Chief Developer (deceased)
 Arwyn Zurrow – Head of the Miami facilities.

Subsidiaries
 Project: Caribbean (staff unknown)  – Stark Industries made an effort to start a plant in Haiti, however it was destroyed by Night Phantom.

Stark International
Originally Stark Industries, the name was changed when the company ceased manufacturing munitions, with Tony handing over the CEO position to Pepper Potts. Eventually, the company was taken over by Obadiah Stane after a hostile takeover and he renamed it Stane International.

Staff
 Tony Stark – Original Head
 James Rupert Rhodes – Pilot, later Acting CEO
 Bambi Arbogast – An executive assistant.
 Yvette Avril – Worked for the French branch of Stark International and was brought to the US to become vice president of the Long Island facility. She unsuccessfully attempted to save the company when Tony Stark went on a major drinking binge and quit after takeover by Obadiah Stane.
 Bethany Cabe – 
 Dianne Carruthers – 
 Morley Erwin – Owned Circuits Maximus as well as working Stark International. He is the brother of Clytemnestra Erwin. He also assisted Jim Rhodes in learning to use the Iron Man armor, helped form Circuits Maximus, killed when Obadiah Stane had the Circuits Maximus building bombed
 Abe Klein – Director of Engineering. – Tony Stark's old electrical engineering professor. Killed by Mordecai Midas.
 Scott Lang (Ant-Man)
 Kristine "Krissy" Longfellow – Secretary. She posed as Tony Stark's secretary to be close to him without involving him with a criminal.
 Harold Marks (Techno-Killer) – A research technician. He left to work for author James Spencer; built an armor to gain respect and vengeance from perceived lack of appreciation
 Vincent "Vic" Martinelli – A security guard. He was a former soldier and architect who worked for Williams Innovations before working at Stark International. He remained with Obadiah Stane after his hostile takeover due to difficulty in finding a new job.
 Artemus "Artie" Pithins – Director of Public Relations. He is currently a White House Press Secretary. Quit Stark International after Obadiah Stane took over.
 Erica Sondheim – Medical Director.
 Carl Walker – 
 Cherry Wood – A scientist. She studied Doctor Octopus' Adamantium arms and dated Stark. She was taken hostage by Doctor Octopus.

Stane International
After driving Tony Stark back to alcoholism, Obadiah Stane wrested control of Stark International from James Rhodes after a hostile takeover and renamed the company after himself. Stane renewed the munitions manufacturing. However, after Stane was killed, the company was run by a mysterious cartel which was eventually bought out and reabsorbed by Stark Enterprises.

Staff
 Obadiah Stane – CEO of Stane International.
 Joel Arons – He was involved in a project that kidnapped Myron MacLain. He stole Captain America's proto-adamantium shield
 Joseph "Joe" Faulkner – general manager.
 Dr. Edward "Edwin" Earl Hawkins – Designed the Mass Acquisition Unit. He aided Giant Man (Bill Foster) in battling Doctor Nemesis.
 Karaguchi Inoyawa – Sought to rebuild the Red Ronin for peaceful purposes.
 Joseph "Joe" Kilman – After being fired for unknown reasons, he sought revenge by trying to take control of Red Ronin
 Vic Martinelli
 Michael Craig Stockton (Dr. Nemesis) – Sought to coerce Dr. Hawkins into creating a mass acquisition warhead.

Stark Enterprises
After regaining his personal fortune following Obadiah Stane's death, Tony established a new company, Stark Enterprises, in Los Angeles.

Staff
 Tony Stark – CEO and founder (deceased)
 James Rhodes – Former CEO (when Stark was in suspended animation following his first "death"; quit upon Stark's revival); former pilot
 Rothvichet Poch – Former lawyer, vice-president and CEO. Alvarez defended Tony Stark in the trial of Kathy Dare.
 Bambi Arbogast - receptionist and former member of the US Department of Defense.
 Veronica Benning/Victoria Michelle – Tony Stark's physiotherapist.
 Bethany Cabe – Security Chief and former bodyguard of Tony Stark.
 Diane Carruthers – 
 Lee Clayton
 Ed Deal – Worked on the VLS-2980 Project.
 Phillip Grant – Computer hacker.
 Chester "Chet" Harrigan – Former chauffeur to Tony Stark.
 Bert Hindel – Former lawyer of Stark Enterprises. He was fired after he failed to clear up the Government civil suits brought on during the Armor Wars storyline. He also unsuccessfully defended Kathy Dare.
 Happy Hogan – 
 Heuristically Operative-Matrix-Emulation Rostrum (H.O.M.E.R.) – Nearly intelligent computer of Tony Stark.
 Sarah Jennings – Accounts & Marketing
 Kylie Normandy – 
 Dr. Cal Oakley – Former employee of Cordco. Oakley assisted in rebuilding Tony Stark's nervous system following his being shot by Kathy Dare.
 Marcia Jessica "Marcy" Pearson – Former Director of Public Relations and later Vice-President. Rhodes fired her when she resented his being named Stark's successor as CEO.
 Garrison Quint – Chief of security.
 James Simpson – Security guard. He allowed Edgar Elliot to sabotage Tony Stark's experimental rocket.
 Dr. Erica Fredrika Sondheim – Medical Director and former surgeon.
 Wayne Unnier
 Nick Walcek
 Atha Williams – Secretary
 Roderick Withers – Director of Public Relations
 Abraham Paul "Abe" Zimmer – Research director and former member of the board of directors at Acutech. He was killed by Calico.

Subsidiaries
 Accutech – Research and Development company, based in California, that was bought out as a subsidiary. The company produced and designed a Beta Particle Generator which was sabotaged by the Ghost. Known staff members include Gilbert O’Connor and Abe Zimmer.
 Barstow Electronics> – Subsidiary of Stark Enterprises based in California. It employed Carl Walker after Force's faked death.
 Cordco – Bought out by Stark Enterprises to force Dr. Cal Oakley to implant a biochip in Tony Stark's spine after he was shot by Kathy Dare. Known staff members include Addison Drexel, Edwin Cord, Dr. Cal Oakley, and Basil Sandhurst.
 Stane International – It was reacquired by Stark from Justin Hammer, who owned SI following Obidiah Stane's death. The company reproduced Stark's original Guardsman armor for use at the Vault. Much of Stane's operations involved disreputable business practices, leading Stark to initiate a major clean-up effort aft