# Bose–Einstein condensate

In condensed matter physics, a Bose–Einstein condensate (BEC) is a state of matter that is typically formed when a gas of bosons at very low densities is cooled to temperatures very close to absolute zero (−273.15 °C or −459.67 °F). Under such conditions, a large fraction of bosons occupy the lowest quantum state, at which microscopic quantum mechanical phenomena, particularly wavefunction interference, become apparent macroscopically.

This state was first predicted, generally, in 1924–1925 by Albert Einstein, crediting a pioneering paper by Satyendra Nath Bose on the new field now known as quantum statistics. In 1995, the Bose–Einstein condensate was created by Eric Cornell and Carl Wieman of the University of Colorado Boulder using rubidium atoms; later that year, Wolfgang Ketterle of MIT produced a BEC using sodium atoms. In 2001 Cornell, Wieman and Ketterle shared the Nobel Prize in Physics "for the achievement of Bose-Einstein condensation in dilute gases of alkali atoms, and for early fundamental studies of the properties of the condensates."

History 

Bose first sent a paper to Einstein on the quantum statistics of light quanta (now called photons), in which he derived Planck's quantum radiation law without any reference to classical physics. Einstein was impressed, translated the paper himself from English to German and submitted it for Bose to the Zeitschrift für Physik, which published it in 1924. (The Einstein manuscript, once believed to be lost, was found in a library at Leiden University in 2005.) Einstein then extended Bose's ideas to matter in two other papers. The result of their efforts is the concept of a Bose gas, governed by Bose–Einstein statistics, which describes the statistical distribution of identical particles with integer spin, now called bosons. Bosons, particles that include the photon as well as atoms such as helium-4 (), are allowed to share a quantum state. Einstein proposed that cooling bosonic atoms to a very low temperature would cause them to fall (or "condense") into the lowest accessible quantum state, resulting in a new form of matter.

In 1938, Fritz London proposed the BEC as a mechanism for superfluidity in  and superconductivity.

The quest to produce a Bose–Einstein condensate in the laboratory was stimulated by a paper published in 1976 by two Program Directors at the National Science Foundation (William Stwalley and Lewis Nosanow). This led to the immediate pursuit of the idea by four independent research groups; these were led by Isaac Silvera (University of Amsterdam), Walter Hardy (University of British Columbia), Thomas Greytak (Massachusetts Institute of Technology) and David Lee (Cornell University).

On 5 June 1995, the first gaseous condensate was produced by Eric Cornell and Carl Wieman at the University of Colorado at Boulder NIST–JILA lab, in a gas of rubidium atoms cooled to 170 nanokelvins (nK). Shortly thereafter, Wolfgang Ketterle at MIT produced a Bose–Einstein Condensate in a gas of sodium atoms. For their achievements Cornell, Wieman, and Ketterle received the 2001 Nobel Prize in Physics. These early studies founded the field of ultracold atoms, and hundreds of research groups around the world now routinely produce BECs of dilute atomic vapors in their labs.

Since 1995, many other atomic species have been condensed, and BECs have also been realized using molecules, quasi-particles, and photons.

Critical temperature 
This transition to BEC occurs below a critical temperature, which for a uniform three-dimensional gas consisting of non-interacting particles with no apparent internal degrees of freedom is given by:

where:

{|cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0"
|-
|
| is the critical temperature,
|-
| 
| the particle density,
|-
| 
| the mass per boson,
|-
| 
| the reduced Planck constant,
|-
|
| the Boltzmann constant and
|-
| 
| the Riemann zeta function;  
|}
Interactions shift the value and the corrections can be calculated by mean-field theory.
This formula is derived from finding the gas degeneracy in the Bose gas using Bose–Einstein statistics.

Derivation

Ideal Bose gas 
For an ideal Bose gas we have the equation of state:

where  is the per particle volume,  the thermal wavelength,  the fugacity and

It is noticeable that  is a monotonically growing function of  in , which are the only values for which the series converge.
Recognizing that the second term on the right-hand side contains the expression for the average occupation number of the fundamental state , the equation of state can be rewritten as

Because the left term on the second equation must always be positive,  and because , a stronger condition is

which defines a transition between a gas phase and a condensed phase. On the critical region it is possible to define a critical temperature and thermal wavelength:

recovering the value indicated on the previous section. The critical values are such that if  or  we are in the presence of a Bose–Einstein condensate.
Understanding what happens with the fraction of particles on the fundamental level is crucial. As so, write the equation of state for , obtaining

                 and equivalently              .

So, if   the fraction  and if  the fraction . At temperatures near to absolute 0, particles tend to condensate in the fundamental state, which is the state with momentum .

Models

Bose Einstein's non-interacting gas 

Consider a collection of N non-interacting particles, which can each be in one of two quantum states,  and . If the two states are equal in energy, each different configuration is equally likely.

If we can tell which particle is which, there are  different configurations, since each particle can be in  or  independently. In almost all of the configurations, about half the particles are in  and the other half in . The balance is a statistical effect: the number of configurations is largest when the particles are divided equally.

If the particles are indistinguishable, however, there are only N+1 different configurations. If there are K particles in state , there are  particles in state . Whether any particular particle is in state  or in state  cannot be determined, so each value of K determines a unique quantum state for the whole system.

Suppose now that the energy of state  is slightly greater than the energy of state  by an amount E. At temperature T, a particle will have a lesser probability to be in state  by . In the distinguishable case, the particle distribution will be biased slightly towards state . But in the indistinguishable case, since there is no statistical pressure toward equal numbers, the most-likely outcome is that most of the particles will collapse into state .

In the distinguishable case, for large N, the fraction in state  can be computed. It is the same as flipping a coin with probability proportional to p = exp(−E/T) to land tails.

In the indistinguishable case, each value of K is a single state, which has its own separate Boltzmann probability. So the probability distribution is exponential:

For large N, the normalization constant C is . The expected total number of particles not in the lowest energy state, in the limit that , is equal to
 
It does not grow when N is large; it just approaches a constant. This will be a negligible fraction of the total number of particles. So a collection of enough Bose particles in thermal equilibrium will mostly be in the ground state, with only a few in any excited state, no matter how small the energy difference.

Consider now a gas of particles, which can be in different momentum states labeled . If the number of particles is less than the number of thermally accessible states, for high temperatures and low densities, the particles will all be in different states. In this limit, the gas is classical. As the density increases or the temperature decreases, the number of accessible states per particle becomes smaller, and at some point, more particles will be forced into a single state than the maximum allowed for that state by statistical weighting. From this point on, any extra particle added will go into the ground state.

To calculate the transition temperature at any density, integrate, over all momentum states, the expression for maximum number of excited particles, :

When the integral (also known as Bose–Einstein integral) is evaluated with factors of  and ℏ restored by dimensional analysis, it gives the critical temperature formula of the preceding section. Therefore, this integral defines the critical temperature and particle number corresponding to the conditions of negligible chemical potential . In Bose–Einstein statistics distribution,  is actually still nonzero for BECs; however,  is less than the ground state energy. Except when specifically talking about the ground state,  can be approximated for most energy or momentum states as .

Bogoliubov theory for weakly interacting gas 
Nikolay Bogoliubov considered perturbations on the limit of dilute gas