# Hemileia vastatrix

Hemileia vastatrix is a multicellular basidiomycete fungus of the order Pucciniales (previously also known as Uredinales) that causes coffee leaf rust (CLR), a disease affecting the coffee plant. Coffee serves as the obligate host of coffee rust, that is, the rust must have access to and come into physical contact with coffee (Coffea sp.) in order to survive.

CLR is one of the most economically important diseases of coffee, worldwide. Previous epidemics have destroyed coffee production of entire countries. In more recent history, an epidemic in Central America in 2012 reduced the region's coffee output by 16%.

The primary pathological mechanism of the fungus is a reduction in the plant's ability to derive energy through photosynthesis by covering the leaves with fungus spores and/or causing leaves to drop from the plant. The reduction in photosynthetic ability (plant's metabolism) results in a reduction in quantity and quality of flower and fruit production, which ultimately reduces the beverage quality.

Appearance

The mycelium with uredinia looks yellow-orange and powdery, and appears on the underside of leaves as points ~0.1 mm in diameter. Young lesions appear as chlorotic or pale yellow spots some millimetres in diameter, the older being a few centimetres in diameter. Hyphae are club-shaped with tips bearing numerous pedicels on which clusters of urediniospores are produced.

Telia are pale yellowish teliospores often produced in uredinia; teliospores more or less spherical to limoniform, 26–40 × 20–30 µm in diameter, wall hyaline to yellowish, smooth, 1 µm thick, thicker at the apex, pedicel hyaline.

Urediniospores are more or less reniform, 26–40 × 18-28 µm, with hyaline to pale yellowish wall, 1–2 µm thick, strongly warted on the convex side, smooth on the straight or concave side, warts frequently longer (3–7 µm) on spore edges.

There have been no known reports of a host capable of supporting an aecial stage of the fungus.

Life cycle
Hemileias life cycle begins with the germination of uredospores through germ pores in the spore. It mainly attacks the leaves and is only rarely found on young stems and fruit. Appressoria are produced, which in turn produce vesicles, from which entry into the substomatal cavity is gained. Within 24–48 hours, infection is completed. After successful infection, the leaf blade is colonized and sporulation will occur through the stomata. One lesion produces 4–6 spore crops over a 3–5 month period releasing 300–400,000 spores.

There is currently no known alternate host nor reported cases of infection by basidiospores of H. vastatrix, yet the fungus is able to overcome resistance by plants and scientists do not know exactly how. The predominant hypothesis is that H. vastatrix is heteroecious, completing its life cycle on an alternate host plant which has not yet been found. An alternative hypothesis is that H. vastatrix actually represents an early-diverging autoecious rust, in which the teliospores are non-functional and vestigial, and the sexual life cycle is completed by the urediniospores. Hidden meiosis and sexual reproduction (cryptosexuality) have been found within the generally asexual urediniospores. This finding may explain why new physiological races have arisen so often and so quickly in H. vastatrix.

Control

Recent studies and research papers have shown that CLR is under-researched compared to pathogens of other cash crops and that there are many factors that can influence the incidence and severity of the disease. Therefore, an integrated approach that includes genetic, chemical, and cultural controls is the best course of action.

Resistant cultivars
The most effective and durable strategy against CLR is the use of resistant cultivars. This has a number of benefits beyond disease control and can include the reduction in use of agrochemicals as control. A reduction in chemical application also has positive economic effects for farmers by reducing the cost of production. However, in lieu of deploying new, resistant plant stock, or in the interim between initiation of a renewal program and complete renewal, other methods of control are available.

Professional research and breeding programs such as CIRAD are developing F1 hybrid coffee trees such as Starmaya that have broad genetic resistance to CLR as well as good yield and cup quality, with research showing that F1 hybrids have higher yields and cup quality than conventional Coffea arabica cultivars. Research is also being done on how to democratize the use of F1 hybrids by smallholder coffee farmers who too often can not afford to utilize F1 hybrids. For example, Starmaya is the first F1 hybrid coffee tree that can be propagated in a seed garden rather than the more complicated and expensive process of somatic embryogenesis.

Chemicals

There are social, environmental, and economic concerns associated with any chemical control of plant diseases and some of these have a more direct and immediate impact than others on a farmer's decision to use chemicals. The use of chemicals must first and foremost make economic sense, and the cost of their use can be as much as 50% of the total cost of production. For smallholder farmers, this can be cost-prohibitive. Copper-based fungicides, such as Bordeaux mixture, have proven to be effective and economical, and work best when applied at inoculum levels below 10%.

Typically copper-based mixtures are used as preventative measures and systemic fungicides are used as curative measures.

By reducing disease incidence, chemical control can help mitigate the reduction in fruit quality and quantity that is caused by the disease.

Cultural

The extended presence of water on the leaves allows H vastatrix to infect the plant more easily and therefore cultural methods can be directed at reducing the time and the amount of water that remains on leaves. Cultural methods such as pruning branches to allow more air circulation and light penetration can help dry the moisture on the leaves. Increasing spacing between rows and preventing weed growth also allows for more air circulation and light penetration.

Plant nutrition

The correct amount of plant nutrients can also play a role in host resistance. Adequate nutrition allows the plant's natural, biochemical defenses to perform at optimal levels. For example, nitrogen and potassium are two critical, macronutrients that assist a coffee tree to resist infection. Nitrogen is a critical component of chlorophyll, which is central to photosynthesis. Potassium helps to increase the thickness of a leaf's epidermis, which acts as a barrier to pathogen attack. It also aids in recovery of tissues after an attack by H. vastatrix.

Pruning

Experiments have shown that removal of infected leaves can possibly reduce the final amount of the disease by a significant amount.

Fruit thinning

Fruit thinning combined with chemical application (cyproconazole and epoxiconazole for example) can increase effective control.

Shade

There is a complex interaction between shade, meteorological effects such as rainfall or dry periods, and aerial dispersal of rust. Researchers have found that shade may suppress spore dispersal under dry conditions but assist spore dispersal during wet conditions. The researchers acknowledge the need for further research on the topic.

Ecology
Hemileia vastatrix is an obligate parasite that lives mainly on the plants of genus Coffea but is also capable of invading Arabidopsis thaliana but does not develop haustoria.

The rust needs suitable temperatures to develop (between 16 °C and 28 °C). High altitude plantations are generally colder, so inoculum will not develop as easily as in plantations located in warmer regions. The presence of free water is required for infection to be completed. Loss of moisture after germination starts inhibits the whole infection process.

Sporulation is most influenced by temperature, humidity, and host resistance. The colonization process is not dependent on leaf wetness but is influenced greatly by temperature and by plant resistance. The main effect of temperature is to determine the length of time for the colonization process (incubation period).

Hemileia vastatrix has two fungal parasites, Verticillium haemiliae and Verticillium psalliotae.

The fungus is of East African origin, but is currently endemic to all producing regions. Coffee originates in high altitude regions of Ethiopia, Sudan, and Kenya, and the rust pathogen is believed to have originated in the same mountains. The earliest reports of the disease hail from the 1860s. It was reported first by a British explorer from regions of Kenya around Lake Victoria in 1861, from where it is believed to have spread to Asia and the Americas.

Rust was first reported in the major coffee growing regions of Sri Lanka (then called Ceylon) in 1867. The causal fungus was first fully described by the English mycologist Michael Joseph Berkeley and his collaborator Chri