# Freemasonry in Asia

This is a general survey on the historical and modern presence of Freemasonry in countries located in Asia (including Armenia and Turkey).

Armenia

The Grand Lodge of Armenia is a national organization, supervising Freemasonry in Armenia. It was consecrated in 2002 by representatives of the Grand Lodge of the District of Columbia, the Grande Loge Nationale Française and the Grand Lodge of Russia.

The Grand Lodge of Armenia is recognised by the United Grand Lodge of England and is located in Yerevan.

China 

Freemasonry in China is allowed but recommended against participating in by the Chinese Communist Party.

Taiwan
The Grand Lodge of China is located on the island of Taiwan, and was founded in 1949. It has 11 lodges with 750 members and is recognised by the United Grand Lodge of England.

India
Freemasonry was introduced to India in the 1730s by the English.  The fraternity remained under the jurisdiction of the United Grand Lodge of England through the colonial era.  An independent Grand Lodge of India was founded in 1961. As of February 2011, it has 370 lodges spread across India with more than 14,900 members and is recognised by UGLE.

The Confederation of United Grand Lodges of India was founded in 2001 and is recognised by the Grand Lodge of Belgium.

Iran
The first Persian contact with freemasonry dates back to the 19th century during the Qajar period.

The Grand Lodge of Iran, established in 1969 in Tehran, existed in the country prior to the Islamic Revolution of 1979, hosted membership from various political figures, including former prime minister Jafar Sharif-Emami (who served as the lodge's grand master at one point), and branched to 43 Lodges and at least 1,035 members. Since the Revolution, Freemasonry has been banned in Iran; a "Grand Lodge of Iran in Exile" is currently established in Los Angeles, where the local Grand Lodge approved its practice in 1985.

Israel
The Grand Lodge of the State of Israel was founded in 1953, it has 53 active lodges with 1400 members and is recognised by the United Grand Lodge of England.

Le Droit Humain also has an Israeli jurisdiction founded in 1989.

Japan
Freemasonry in Japan first began with the opening of trade with foreign countries occasioned by Commodore Perry's Black Ships in 1866.  Prior to World War II, several Grand Lodges had subordinate Lodges there, including those of England, Ireland, and Scotland.  Most went dark as the war loomed.  After World War II, the Grand Lodge of the Philippines charted new Lodges throughout the country.

General MacArthur, commander of US forces occupying Japan, a mason himself, supported the creation of several Lodges.
 
The Grand Lodge of Japan was founded in 1957, it has 18 lodges with 2500 members and is recognised by the United Grand Lodge of England.

Le Droit Humain has a lodge in Tokyo, the lodge "Soleil Levant" founded in 2008 and working at the Ancient and Accepted Scottish Rite in French.

Korea
In late 1907 and early 1908 a number of Freemasons then residing in Korea undertook to establish the first Masonic Lodge on the Peninsula. A Charter was issued by the Grand Lodge of Scotland on November 5, 1908, and the name Han Yang, one of the ancient names for the capital city, was chosen to designate the new Lodge. The members were initially merchants, miners, and missionaries from Lodge Hyogo and Osaka 498 in Japan; occupations that represented most of the foreign population in what was then known as Chosun. In addition to Lodge Han Yang, there are  two other Scottish lodges on the Korean Peninsula: Lodge Pusan and Lodge Harry S. Truman #1727  in Pyeongtaek (on the roll of the Grand Lodge of Scotland).  In December 1978 a letter was sent to facilitate Truman Lodge, and began as such, "Sixteen Master Masons, all members of the US Uniformed services or US civilian component thereof, have petitioned Lodge Han Yang 1048 and Pusan Lodge 1675, for support for the formation of a lodge in or in the immediate vicinity of (US) Osan Air Base located in the city of Songtan Up some 45 miles south of Seoul. There are reportedly some 30 Brn. additionally, who have indicated a keen interest in the formation of the lodge and who will lend their support."  Similarly, MacArthur Lodge (under the jurisdiction of the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of the Philippines). MacArthur Lodge currently holds meetings on the United States military base located within Seoul. Furthermore, numerous Prince Hall Freemasonry Lodges from the MWPHGL of Washington and Jurisdiction (and other PHA Grand Lodges) meet on various United States military bases throughout the country, including II Corinthians #96 at USAG Yongsan in Seoul, Sprig of Acacia #93 at Camp Casey, and Billy G. Miller #43 (MWPHGL Oklahoma) at Camp Humphreys.

Lebanon
There are a number of different Grand Lodges and Grand Orients in Lebanon.  Irregular Grand Lodges include the  King Solomon Grand Lodge of Lebanon ,  Sun Grand Lodge (SGL) ,Grand Orient de Canaan the Grande Loge Centrale du Liban, the Grande Loge de Cèdres, the Grand Orient Arabe,  and the Grande Loge Bet-El, all in the tradition of Continental Freemasonry.

There are also UGLE recognised lodges active in Lebanon operating under the Grand District of Lebanon, under the Grand Lodge of Scotland and two lodges under the Grand Lodge of the District of Columbia.

On 24 October 2018, the Grand Lodge of New York created the independent Grand Lodge of the Free and Accepted Masons of Lebanon.

Malaysia

Freemasonry started in Malaysia 180 years ago and was first established on the island of Penang. There are freemason lodges in all states in Malaysia except Terengganu, Kelantan and Perlis. The largest freemason lodge in Malaysia is located in Bukit Jalil.

Pakistan

Freemasonry was introduced to Pakistan during the era of the British empire. Masonic organisations continued in the country until they were completely ousted in 1972 by Zulfiqar Ali Bhutto and again by Zia-ul-Haq in 1983.

The Sindh Wildlife Conservation building in Saddar, Karachi, served as a Masonic hall until it was taken over by the government. The Masonic Temple in Lahore, built in 1860, has been renamed to Mason Hall and is today used as a multi-purpose government building by the Government of Punjab.

Philippines
Currently there are three different major jurisdictions existing in the Philippines, to wit:

(1) Gran Logia Soberana del Archipielago Filipino (GLSdAF)
            Supremo Consejo del Grado 33° 
       R∴E∴A∴yA∴ del Gran Oriente de Filipinas

Website: https://granlogiasoberanaph.com/

Address: RIZAL MASONIC TEMPLE

1316 Cavite St. Tondo, Manila, Philippines

Brief History of Gran Logia Soberana del Archipielago Filipino

On January 12, 1889, the Hispanico-Filipino Association was inaugurated in Madrid. The association was headed by the illustrious Grand Master Miguel Morayta and was composed of distinguished Spanish and Filipino Masons. The primary objective of the association was to fight for reforms in the Philippines, inspired by the Masonic principles of liberty, equality, and fraternity.
According to pages 215-216 of the Master Mason's ritual, 1906 Edition, of the Ancient and Accepted Scottish Rite, Ohras Masonicas Oficiales, Volume III, the Grande Oriente Español established several lodges in the Philippines in 1889. However, these lodges were forced to operate in secrecy due to the power of the friars. In 1892, the Nilad Lodge in Manila was issued a charter by the Grande Oriente Español and several other workshops were established shortly thereafter. By the end of 1895, the Philippines had twenty-four lodges, a triangle, and a chamber of Knights of Kadosh.
Unfortunately, the revolution that began in 1896 and ended with the United States taking control of the islands led to the dissolution of nearly all the lodges due to persecution and suffering. Despite this, the Modestia Lodge was able to survive and continue the Spanish Masonic tradition in the Philippines. Three lodges, one triangle, and a Rose Croix Chapter operate in the Philippines under the Grande Oriente Español. The Grand Orient of France and the Grand Lodge of California also have lodges in Manila, but the work of the lodges of the Grande Oriente Español soon lead to the development of Masonic doctrines throughout the country.

Organization of the First Grand Logia Regional of the Philippines

As per the esteemed Constitution of the Gran Logia Soberana del Archipelago Filipino, it is stated that the first Regional Grand Lodge of the Philippines was organized in June 1887. Ill.:. and Pot.:. Bro.:. Miguel Morayta, 33°, was the Assistant Grand Master and Acting Grand Master of the Spanish Symbolic Masonry of the Sovereign Grand Symbolic Lodges, under the auspices of the Gran Oriente de España. Later, on January 9, 1889, the organization took the title of Grande Oriente Español.

(2) Grand Lodge of the Philippines

(3) Gran Logia Nacional de Filipinas (Supremo Consejo del Grado 33 para Filipinas). https: