# Sean Slater

Sean Slater is a fictional character from the BBC soap opera EastEnders, played by Robert Kazinsky, who made his first appearance on 22 August 2006. Sean's existence was revealed on 9 December 2005 when his sister Stacey Slater (Lacey Turner) returns to Walford after their mother, Jean (Gillian Wright), attempts suicide.

It was announced on 18 January 2008 that Kazinsky would be leaving the show, and he made his final appearance on 1 January 2009. He returned for a brief stint on 26 April 2019, and departed again on 6 May 2019. Kazinsky returned again for one-off appearances on 1 November 2021 and 7 April 2022.

Storylines

Backstory
Growing up, Sean adored his father Brian and younger sister Stacey (Lacey Turner), but had a fractured relationship with his mother Jean (Gillian Wright) due to her bipolar disorder. He became rebellious, constantly going out of his way to scare Jean. Sean punched his father during an argument. The next day, Brian suffered a brain haemorrhage and died whilst working on a building site the next day. Believing that he killed his father, Sean panicked and on his sixteenth birthday, he ran away, joined the army and lost all contact with his family. Stacey, aged 11, was left alone to take care of their mother.

2006–2009
Sean Slater first appears in August 2006, seeking revenge on his old friend Al (Andrew McKay) after the latter ended up causing Sean to be kicked out of the Special Air Service. Sean breaks into Al's flat and follows him into The Queen Victoria public house, where he ends up seeing his sister Stacey, whom he had lost contact with for seven years. After taking revenge on Al, Sean decides to stay in Walford to look after Stacey. Sean immediately begins pursuing Tanya Branning (Jo Joyner), despite briefly dumping her for Stacey's best-friend Ruby Allen (Louisa Lytton) after learning that she is wealthy. Sean soon begins forging his relationship with Ruby in order to secret exploit control of her financial assets. However, his plan is quickly discovered by Ruby's business partner Jake Moon (Joel Beckett), whom he begins clashing with in the process. Their feud escalates when Ruby confides to Sean that Jake had killed his younger brother Danny (Jake Maskall) to stop him from murdering the "Mitchell brothers", consisting of the square's local hardman Phil Mitchell (Steve McFadden) and his younger brother Grant (Ross Kemp), at the behest of their crime boss and Ruby's father, Johnny Allen (Billy Murray). Later on, Jake informs Johnny of Sean's plan and subsequently tells Sean that Johnny wishes to meet him in person; Johnny has recently been sentenced to life imprisonment for his criminal activities, specifically for the murders of his gangland rival Andy Hunter (Michael Higgs) and his best-friend Dennis Rickman (Nigel Harman). The next day, Sean visits Johnny and attempts to fabricate his story by proclaiming that his intentions are to create goodwill for Ruby and her future. However, Johnny does not buy it and threatens to have Sean killed unless he leaves Ruby alone. At first Sean appears to feel intimidated, but he then surprises Johnny by taunting him over his real plans for Ruby before leaving prison. This enrages Johnny, who then attempts to have Sean killed by phoning Jake to carry out the order, but he ends up having a heart attack and dies before Ruby can visit him; Jake then leaves Walford after learning about his boss' death. Following Johnny's funeral, Sean proposes marriage to Ruby. They begin to plan out a wedding until Ruby learns of Sean's plan, and Sean also grows irritated when she attempts to help mend his relationship with Jean. Eventually, they split and Ruby leaves Walford afterwards. Sean then continues to pursue Tanya, only to end up having sex with numerous other women - including Karin Jones (Anna Lauren) and Preeti Choraria (Babita Pohoomull).

In 2007, Sean starts dating Chelsea Fox (Tiana Benjamin) and also has sex with her stepsister Carly Wicks (Kellie Shirley), causing a number of arguments. Scorned, Chelsea and Deano Wicks (Matt Di Angelo) try to get revenge on Sean by attempting to frame him for assaulting shopkeeper Patrick Trueman (Rudolph Walker). Sean's attempt to escape arrest fails and he is held on remand. From prison, Sean has Deano attacked so Carly ends the relationship, but discovers that Chelsea has CCTV footage proving that Sean did not attack Patrick. Despite her family's protests, Carly takes the footage to the police. Sean is released, and Deano and Chelsea are arrested for conspiracy to pervert the course of justice. Sean gets revenge on Deano by giving him a bogwash and he also cuts Chelsea's hair.

Sean and Tanya start dating at the beginning of 2008, and Sean tells her that he was responsible for his father's death. In March 2008, they plot to fake Tanya's reconciliation with her estranged husband Max (Jake Wood) in order to gain control of his assets and then leave the country. Tanya pretends to split up with Sean and reunite with Max, but secretly they conspire to bury Max alive. However Tanya feels guilty and releases Max. Much to Sean's surprise, Tanya scorns and rejects him when he says he wants them to be a family and reveals that she used him to get revenge on Max. Sean threatens to tell her children what she has done but Tanya retaliates by threatening to tell Stacey that Sean killed their father. Sean keeps quiet but takes the rejection hard. He then begins to torment his flatmate Gus Smith (Mohammed George). Sean reveals that he plans to kill Gus and make it look like suicide, but Stacey stops him and makes him move back in with the Slaters. Roxy and Sean split up, and Gus reveals to the Slaters that Sean is involved in drugs.

By then, Sean has begun a relationship with Phil's cousin Roxy (Rita Simons), who soon reveals that she is pregnant. This causes Sean to believe that he is the father, but is left unaware that Roxy had a one-night stand with Max's younger brother Jack (Scott Maslen). He offers to support her but Roxy refuses his offer and returns to Ibiza. Sean leaves Albert Square briefly and returns in July after learning that Roxy is in Weymouth with her father, Archie (Larry Lamb), so he goes to see her. Archie encourages Roxy to stay in Weymouth with him, but her sister Ronnie (Samantha Womack) and Sean persuade her to return to Walford, and she moves in with him. Ronnie disapproves of Roxy and Sean's relationship as she suspects him of selling drugs, but comes round after they get married in August. Sean has a difficult relationship with Roxy's father, Archie, and is unhappy about accepting his money for a deposit on a flat. In November 2008, when Roxy goes into premature labour, Archie pretends to call Sean, but does not, so he misses the birth of Amy.

In December 2008, Jack asks Roxy for a paternity test. She receives the results and hides them away; however, Archie finds them and makes a copy. A few weeks later, Archie persuades Jack and Max's sister Suzy (Maggie O'Neill) to help him reveal the DNA test results to Sean on Christmas Day. Sean is devastated and attacks Jack, Amy's biological father, then goes on the rampage, kidnapping Amy. On New Year's Day 2009, Sean asks Stacey to look after Amy for a few days, knowing that she will return her to Roxy. Sean soon returns himself, and convinces Roxy to leave with him and Amy, but she is scared, and calls Ronnie, so she and Jack follow them. Sean drives them to an icy lake, intending to drive into the water and drown as a family. Roxy escapes but cannot get Amy out, so when she sees Ronnie and Jack arrive, Roxy coaxes Sean out onto the ice so they can rescue Amy. With Ronnie and Jack watching, the ice breaks, and Sean and Roxy go under. Sean frees Roxy from the weeds that she has got entangled in, as Ronnie dives into the water to rescue her. Roxy and Ronnie escape safely, but there is no sign of Sean. Roxy then sees Sean crawling out of the water whilst Ronnie and Jack are warming up back at the car. She signals to him to leave and Sean walks away.

In May 2015, Stacey makes a videocall to Sean via Skype; while he does not appear on-screen, he reminds her to take care of her mystery key due to its link to their father. When Jean reacts badly upon seeing her with the key, Stacey attempts to find out what the key represents, but Jean catches her and, unwilling to tell her the truth other than Sean apparently could not trust her with it, seemingly throws it down the toilet. However, after Stacey leaves, it is revealed that Jean still has the key. She returns the key to Stacey four months later, revealing that it unlocks a safety deposit box in which Brian left Stacey and Sean some information about his other family, but Sean took the key from Jean after Brian's death before she could give it to Stacey when she turned 21.

2019–2022
When Jean is diagnosed with ovarian cancer in March 2019, she wants Stacey to help her contact Sean. Though Stacey claims she does not kn