# Fellowship of the College of Emergency Medicine

Membership of the Royal College of Emergency Medicine (MRCEM) and Fellowship of the Royal College of Emergency Medicine (FRCEM) are postgraduate awards made by the UK Royal College of Emergency Medicine to specialists in Emergency Medicine.

It is a required part of specialist training for doctors undertaking GMC-approved training in the UK, but is also taken by doctors from a variety of other countries. In particular, several parts of the examination are held in overseas examination centres in Dublin, Chennai, Hyderabad, New Delhi, Reykjavik, Kuala Lumpur and Muscat.

Membership and fellowship are granted by examination, and must be completed in a prescribed order alongside other eligibility criteria.

Description
MRCEM Primary 

 Any person holding a medical qualification approved by the GMC for the purposes of registration is eligible.
 Consists of one written paper lasting 3 hours and consisting of 180 single-best answer questions.
 Covers the RCEM Basic Sciences Curriculum.

MRCEM Intermediate SBA 

 Open to candidates who have passed the MRCEM Primary (or equivalent) exam. Applicants are required to hold a medical qualification approved by the GMC for the purposes of registration, and must have completed the UK Foundation Programme or equivalent.
 Consists of two written papers (single best answer multiple choice) of 90 questions each, lasting two hours each, with one hour break between papers.

MRCEM OSCE 

 Open to candidates who have passed the Primary and MRCEM Intermediate SBA (or equivalent).  Candidates are also required to have at least 24 months experience post qualification and at least six months experience in EM (post FY1/intern level).

 OSCE - 16 eight-minute stations.

Completion of the above three examinations grants the Membership of the Royal College of Emergency Medicine (MRCEM), and contributes towards eligibility to complete the fellowship examinations below (FRCEM), which can be sat in any order. FRCEM examinations are open to candidates who have gained MRCEM after 2012* or the previous 'FRCEM Intermediate Certificate'.  Candidates are required to have a certain level of experience:

 For trainees in an approved UK or Irish training programme: has completed 12 months (or full-time equivalent) of training in Emergency Medicine at ST4/ST5 or equivalent.
 For non-trainees: has completed 6 years of training post-qualification; 4 years (or full-time equivalent) of which must be in Emergency Medicine, and 1 year (or full time equivalent) of which must be at a level above ST3/SHO.

FRCEM SBA 

 Consists of two written papers (single best answer multiple choice) of 90 questions each, lasting two hours each, with one hour break between papers.

FRCEM OSCE 

 OSCE - 16 eight-minute stations.

See also
Royal College of Emergency Medicine
Fellow of the American College of Emergency Physicians
Fellow of the Australasian College of Emergency Medicine

References

Emergency medicine education
Medical education in the United Kingdom
Professional titles and certifications