# All the King's Men (1949 film)

All the King's Men is a 1949 American drama written, produced, and directed by Robert Rossen. It is based on the Robert Penn Warren's 1946 novel of the same name. The film stars Broderick Crawford, John Ireland, Mercedes McCambridge, and Joanne Dru. The plot focuses on the rise and fall of the ambitious and ruthless politician Willie Stark (Crawford) in the American South. Though a fictional character, Stark strongly resembles Louisiana governor Huey Long.

The film won three Academy Awards, including Best Picture, Best Actor (Crawford), and Best Supporting Actress (McCambridge). In 2001, All the King's Men was deemed "culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant" by the Library of Congress and was selected for preservation in the United States National Film Registry.

Plot
Jack Burden, a reporter, is sent on assignment to write about Willie Stark, a man running for county treasurer. Stark lives in Kanoma City in an undisclosed state in the American South. Stark's campaign is run on honesty and talking about the corruption of the local politicians. Burden meets Stark and his family and writes an inspiring story on Stark's honesty and courage. Using their power, including sway over the police, the local political machine shuts out Stark. After his loss, Stark earns a law degree. A local Kanoma school experiences a structural collapse that kills twelve students during a fire drill. Stark is encouraged to work on their legal affairs at the children's funeral, and he ultimately wins a lawsuit against the county, leading to a state-wide investigation. Willie uses this to build his political momentum, and he is eventually drafted as a spoiler candidate for Governor by the frontrunner in a three-way race.

Stark embarks on the campaign trail with Sadie Burke, an associate of the campaign installed as a mole from a separate gubernatorial candidate, and Burden. Initially Stark has trouble on the campaign trail as he speaks obtusely and plainly about his plan for the state. However, once Burke reveals he is just a spoiler candidate, Stark begins to give more impassioned speeches. During this time, Burden continues to report on Stark's campaign, but he resigns after being told to stop writing positively about Stark. Ultimately Stark loses the race, but draws large grassroots support from the rural areas of the state.

Over the next four years, Stark continues to campaign and make backroom deals to gain political influence and campaign funds. Meanwhile, Burden has had a tough time finding another job, but is hired by Stark to serve as a researcher for the campaign. Stark and Burden go back to Burden's home to convince Burden's friends and family to support the campaign. Skeptical of Stark's alleged deals and big promises, Adam, brother of Jack Burden's girlfriend, Anne Stanton, asks questions and is not fully convinced. However, Anne believes fully in Stark's message. Burden gets the group on board by promising State Attorney General to Anne's Uncle, Judge Stanton. Willie ends up winning the election in a landslide.

During his time as Governor, Stark ends up utilizing his power in aggressive and corrupt ways. He covers up a scandal by a member of his administration, after which Judge Stanton resign as Attorney General and publicly asserts Stark's corruption. Stark's loss of morals, corruption, and alienation from his small town self is exacerbated as he philanders with many women, including Anne and Sadie. Feeling the pressure of his father's status, Stark's adopted college-aged son Tommy drinks to deal with his feelings about his father. Following a football practice where Stark berates Tommy for drinking, Tommy gets drunk and crashes his car, injuring himself and killing his female passenger. To combat the bad press, Stark pressures Tommy into a game despite him not being fully recovered. During the game, Tommy gets badly tackled and is rushed to the hospital. Stark, blaming himself for Tommy's injury, begs Adam, a surgeon, to do all he can. Adam agrees after Stark agrees to build him a new hospital. Tommy ends up paralyzed from the legs down.

Following this, Burden gives Anne evidence of Judge Stanton's possible past wrongdoing that Burden has hidden. Stark begins his re-election campaign for Governor by visiting his estranged family in Takoma City. While there, Judge Stanton publicly blames Stark for the death of the girl in Tommy's car accident's father after he refused Stark's bribe. An impeachment trial is brought against Stark. In retaliation, Stark visits Judge Stanton and attempts to strongarm him with the evidence that Burden found, given to him by Anne. However, Judge Stanton commits suicide, and the impeachment ends with Stark's acquittal. During his public victory celebration, Adam assassinates Stark, believing that the only reason he was appointed as the director for the hospital was that his sister was Willie Stark's mistress. Having lost his respect for Stark, Jack tries to get Anne's agreement to find a way to destroy Stark's reputation following his death. As Stark dies, he speaks his final words to Burden.

Cast

 Broderick Crawford as Willie Stark
 John Ireland as Jack Burden
 Joanne Dru as Anne Stanton
 John Derek as Tom Stark
 Mercedes McCambridge as Sadie Burke
 Shepperd Strudwick as Adam Stanton
 Ralph Dumke as Tiny Duffy
 Anne Seymour as Mrs. Lucy Stark
 Katharine Warren as Mrs. Burden
 Raymond Greenleaf as Judge Monte Stanton
 Walter Burke as Sugar Boy
 Will Wright as Dolph Pillsbury
 Grandon Rhodes as Floyd McEvoy
 Larry Steers as Man at Impeachment Hearing (uncredited)
 Houseley Stevenson as Madison the newspaper editor 
 Paul Ford as State Senator and impeachment prosecutor

Production
The film was the 15th adaptation of a Pulitzer Prize winning work.

Rossen originally offered the starring role to John Wayne, who found the proposed film script unpatriotic and indignantly refused the part. Crawford, who eventually took the role, won the 1949 Academy Award for Best Actor, beating out Wayne, who had been nominated for his role in Sands of Iwo Jima.

Paul Tatara, writing for TCM, describes the film as "one of those pictures that was saved in the editing". The original cut, done by Al Clark, had difficulty making a coherent version, because so much footage was shot. Rossen and Columbia Studios head Harry Cohn hired Robert Parrish to make changes. However, Parrish's efforts proved unsuccessful as Rossen stayed heavily involved and the film was still over 250 minutes long following several weeks. Cohn almost released this cut before Rossen had Parrish "[s]elect what you consider to be the center of each scene... regardless of what's going on."  After All the King's Men won its Academy Award for Best Picture, Harry Cohn repeatedly gave Parrish credit for saving the film. Although Clark is credited as the "Film Editor" (with Parrish being credited as "Editorial Advisor"), both Clark and Parrish received a nomination for an Academy Award for Best Film Editing.

Locations 

The film was shot at various locations in California using local residents, something that was fairly unknown for Hollywood at the time. The scene near the beginning of the film, where Stark is arrested for unauthorized public speaking was filmed on the old Suisun City, California, Plaza, and the officer that warns, then arrests, Stark was played by local citizen, A.C. Tillman, who was the sheriff of Suisun City at that time.

A house in nearby Fairfield was used for the exterior of Willie Stark's house in the film.  Sets were built in the nearby M & M Skateway (now gone) for the interior scenes at the house, which were closely based on photos of the actual interiors of that house. 
The elementary school that plays a pivotal role in the film was also local, but no longer exists.

The old San Joaquin County courthouse in Stockton, built in 1898 and demolished about a dozen years after the film's release, was featured prominently.

Reception

Critical response
The film received wide acclaim upon its release. Film critic Bosley Crowther lauded the film and its direction in his review, writing, "Robert Rossen has written and directed, as well as personally produced, a rip-roaring film of the same title ... We have carefully used that descriptive as the tag for this new Columbia film because a quality of turbulence and vitality is the one that it most fully demonstrates ... In short, Mr. Rossen has assembled in this starkly unprettified film a piece of pictorial journalism that is remarkable for its brilliant parts." Critic William Brogdon, writing for Variety magazine, was also complimentary and praised Broderick Crawford's work, "As the rural Abe Lincoln, springing up from the soil to make himself a great man by using the opinionless, follow-the-leader instinct of the more common voter, Broderick Crawford does a standout performance. Given a meaty part, his histrionic bent wraps it up for a great personal success adding much to the many worth