# Ambassador Theatre (New York City)

The Ambassador Theatre is a Broadway theater at 219 West 49th Street in the Theater District of Midtown Manhattan in New York City. Opened in 1921, the Ambassador Theatre was designed by Herbert J. Krapp and was constructed for the Shubert brothers. It has 1,125 seats across two levels and is operated by The Shubert Organization. The auditorium interior is a New York City designated landmark.

The theater is oriented on a diagonal axis, maximizing seating capacity on its small site of . The facade is largely made of golden brick and is simple in design. The most prominent part of the facade is a curved entrance at the southeast corner, facing Broadway, where a lobby leads to the rear of the theater's orchestra level. The auditorium contains Adam-style detailing, a large balcony, and box seats with decorated arches above them. The auditorium contains a segmental proscenium arch topped by a curved sounding board.

The Shuberts developed the Ambassador, along with the neighboring O'Neill and Walter Kerr theaters, after World War I as part of a theatrical complex around 48th and 49th Streets. The Ambassador opened on February 11, 1921, with the musical The Rose Girl. The Shuberts sold the property in 1935, and it was intermittently used as a CBS broadcast studio, a movie theater, and for live theater until 1945. The Ambassador then hosted foreign films in the late 1940s and was a studio for the DuMont Television Network in the early 1950s. In 1956, the Shuberts assumed ownership again, returning it to use as a live theater. Though many of the Ambassador's productions in the 20th century were short runs, it has hosted since 2003 the musical Chicago, the second-longest-running Broadway show .

Site 
The Ambassador Theatre is on 219 West 49th Street, on the north sidewalk between Eighth Avenue and Broadway, in the Midtown Manhattan neighborhood of New York City. The square land lot covers , with a frontage of  on 49th Street and a depth of 100 feet. The Ambassador shares the block with the St. Malachy Roman Catholic Church to the west, The Theater Center to the northeast, and the Brill Building to the east. Other nearby buildings include Paramount Plaza (including Circle in the Square Theatre and the Gershwin Theatre) to the north; the Winter Garden Theatre to the northeast; the Crowne Plaza Times Square Manhattan hotel to the southeast; the Eugene O'Neill Theatre and Walter Kerr Theatre to the south; and One Worldwide Plaza to the west.

Design 
The Ambassador Theatre was designed by Herbert J. Krapp and was constructed in 1921 for the Shubert brothers. It is part of a group of six theaters planned by the Shuberts after World War I, of which four were built. Theatrical historian Ken Bloom wrote of the Ambassador in 2007: "Broadway historians blame the Ambassador's relatively lackluster career to the extreme width of the theater due to its odd placement on the lot and its relatively bland facade." Nevertheless, , the theater has hosted the musical Chicago since 2003. The Ambassador is operated by the Shubert Organization.

Facade 

The theater is shorter than its width. At ground level, the facade contains a water table made of stone. The rest of the facade has gold-beige brick, which is laid in a diaper pattern. The facade is simple in design, especially when compared with Krapp's other works for the Shubert family. The Ambassador and Ritz (now Walter Kerr) theaters, in particular, were designed in patterned brick, with the only ornamentation being in the arrangement of the brick. This sparse ornamentation may be attributed to the lack of money in the years after World War I.

Similar to Krapp's earlier Broadhurst and Plymouth theaters, the Ambassador Theatre has a curved corner at the eastern portion of the facade, facing Broadway. This corner contains the main entrance, which is through a set of metal-and-glass doors. The center section of the facade has display boxes, and the western section has three pairs of wood-and-glass doors with segmental arches above them. A marquee hangs above the first floor. The main section of the facade is decorated in a diaper pattern and lacks window openings (some windows are infilled at the second floor near the corner). There are also blind arches on the second and third stories.

A molding with corbels forms a fake cornice above the third floor. The fourth floor contains windows within brick openings. There is a parapet above the fourth floor, which wraps around the eastern corner. The western facade is plain brick with a fire escape.

Auditorium  
The auditorium has an orchestra level, one balcony, boxes, and a stage behind the proscenium arch. According to the Shubert Organization, the auditorium has 1,114 seats; meanwhile, Playbill cites 1,080 seats and The Broadway League cites 1,125 seats. The physical seats are divided into 573 seats in the orchestra (including 41 in the orchestra pit), 264 at the front of the balcony, 250 at the rear of the balcony, and 8 in the boxes. There are also 19 standing-room only spots.

The auditorium was originally decorated with solid gold leaf. The color scheme was initially in gold and red, similar to that of the Shubert Theatre. Due to the small site dimensions, the auditorium is oriented on a diagonal axis to increase seating capacity, with the stage to the northwest and the lobby to the southeast. The diagonal plan could fit 1,300 seats, but a typical layout, where the proscenium and the stage were parallel to the street, could only net 900 seats. The side walls of the auditorium are significantly curved, and the auditorium has a roughly hexagonal layout. The diagonal arrangement allowed the northeast and southwest corners to be used for other rooms such as lounges.

Seating areas 

The auditorium's outer walls are non-bearing walls, with the weight of the balcony resting on columns. A vestibule was placed between the ticket lobby and auditorium to reduce drafty air from outdoors. The rear of the orchestra contains doors from the ticket lobby. Additional doors to the orchestra are placed along the side walls at the front, near the boxes. Coatrooms were placed next to the side entrances. The orchestra floor is raked, sloping down toward the stage. A promenade wraps around the orchestra's rear and sides. The rear of the orchestra has a standing rail made of marble, separating the promenade from the rear rows of seats. There are also paneled-marble walls, which curve around to the sides. A cornice with swags runs above the orchestra wall. There are stairways up to the balcony with marble walls.

The balcony level is divided into front and rear sections by an aisle halfway across its depth. The walls of the balcony level are angled sideways to accommodate the theater's shape. The side walls (near the boxes) are decorated in the Adam style, with fan shapes inside arches, which in turn are augmented by motifs such as swags. The rear walls and the balcony's underside contain plasterwork paneling. The balcony's front rail contains Adam-style paneling and lights. A smoking room and a mezzanine room adjoined the balcony level.

On either side of the proscenium is a wall section with two boxes at balcony level; the box nearer the stage is curved outward. The boxes' wall sections are flanked by paneling and two pilasters on either side. Paneled walls exist at the orchestra level, where the former boxes there have been removed. The fronts of each box contain paneling with Adam-style medallions. A segmental arch rises above the boxes, with Adam-style panels on either side of the arch, above the pilasters. A frieze and a cornice with modillions runs above the boxes.

Other design features 
The auditorium contains a segmental proscenium arch. The proscenium measures  wide and  high. Two pilasters are placed on either side, while the top of the proscenium has a frieze and cornice, which are continuations of those above the boxes. The sounding board curves onto the ceiling above the proscenium arch and is decorated with grilles and Adam-style panels. The ceiling contains a shallow oval dome at the center, with a chandelier hanging from the dome and Adam-style grotesques inside. The rear of the ceiling contains a partial dome with motifs of fans. The ceiling is otherwise divided into coffered sections with Adam-style reliefs. A frieze and a cornice run just below the ceiling. The depth of the auditorium to the proscenium is , while the depth to the front of the stage is .

History 
Times Square became the epicenter for large-scale theater productions between 1900 and the Great Depression. During the 1900s and 1910s, many theaters in Midtown Manhattan were developed by the Shubert brothers, one of the major theatrical syndicates of the time. The Shuberts originated from Syracuse, New York, and expanded downstate into New York City in the first decade of the 20th century. The brothers controlled a quarter of all plays and three-quarters of theatrical ticket sales in the U.S. b