AI/ML Research

Title: Knowledge mapping of graph neural networks for drug discovery: a bibliometric and visualized analysis

Abstract:
Introduction: In recent years, graph neural network has been extensively applied to drug discovery research. Although researchers have made significant progress in this field, there is less research on bibliometrics. The purpose of this study is to conduct a comprehensive bibliometric analysis of graph neural network applications in drug discovery in order to identify current research hotspots and trends, as well as serve as a reference for future research. Methods: Publications from 2017 to 2023 about the application of graph neural network in drug discovery were collected from the Web of Science Core Collection. Bibliometrix, VOSviewer, and Citespace were mainly used for bibliometric studies. Results and Discussion: In this paper, a total of 652 papers from 48 countries/regions were included. Research interest in this field is continuously increasing. China and the United States have a significant advantage in terms of funding, the number of publications, and collaborations with other institutions and countries. Although some cooperation networks have been formed in this field, extensive worldwide cooperation still needs to be strengthened. The results of the keyword analysis clarified that graph neural network has primarily been applied to drug-target interaction, drug repurposing, and drug-drug interaction, while graph convolutional neural network and its related optimization methods are currently the core algorithms in this field. Data availability and ethical supervision, balancing computing resources, and developing novel graph neural network models with better interpretability are the key technical issues currently faced. This paper analyzes the current state, hot spots, and trends of graph neural network applications in drug discovery through bibliometric approaches, as well as the current issues and challenges in this field. These findings provide researchers with valuable insights on the current status and future directions of this field.