# Ross Butler (artist)

Ross Butler (1907–1995) was a farmer, photographer, songwriter, livestock judge, cattle and poultry breeder, pioneer of cattle artificial insemination, painter and sculptor of farm animals, as well as a writer.

Early life
Butler was born in 1907 in Norwich, Ontario, Canada. He was a descendant of United Empire Loyalist Colonel John Butler.

Career
Butler began his career as an artist in earnest in the 1920s with a few commissioned portraits and paintings of animals. Notability came in 1939 when Butler was commissioned by the education and agriculture ministries to create a series of pictures of farm animals to be placed in schools across Canada.

The contract called for more than 500 "Standard Type" paintings of each breed of cattle, swine, horses, sheep, poultry and other Canadian livestock. Butler's unusual commission was big news. The story ran in newspapers around the world, including the National Enquirer.

Ross Butler, was known as "the world's leading livestock artist"1. He created more than 500 works in his lifetime. His painting of the Springbank Snow Countess was the model for the Springbank Snow Countess monument located on Dundas Street East in Woodstock, Ontario. Another of his sculptures was at the Canadian National Exhibition in 1952. It was a life-size butter sculpture of Queen Elizabeth II and her horse, Winston, to commemorate her coronation.

Butler was a founding father of the Oxford Jersey Club, the first president and manager of the Oxford Museum, the founder of the Oxford Historical and Museum Society and the "Central Unit" – the first independent, all-breed artificial insemination facility for cattle in Canada.

He authored his autobiography, My Father's Farm.

Awards
Butler's achievements as an agricultural artist were recognized posthumously in June 1997, when he was inducted into the Ontario Agricultural Hall of Fame at the Agricultural Museum in Milton, Ontario and into the Canadian Agricultural Hall of Fame in November, 1997, at the Royal Agricultural Winter Fair in Toronto.

Exhibition History

February 17 to June 30, 2018, the Woodstock Art Gallery (Ontario) housed a retrospective exhibition of his life's work. The exhibition was called Ross Butler: Branding, Butter, and Bulls, and was curated by the Curatorial and Collections Assistant Samantha Purvis-Johnston. The exhibition was accompanied by a publication and its contents are found below:

Ross Butler: Branding, Butter, and Bulls

A Jersey Man

Ross Butler (1907–1997), born into a farming family in Norwich, Ontario, would begin to brand his legacy not in the art historical context but instead in the agricultural community of Oxford County. While he painted an impressive variety of livestock portraits and landscapes, his true inspiration was the Jersey cow. His fascination ignited at an early age when, after witnessing a groundbreaking sale of a Holstein cow, he convinced his father to purchase registered purebred pedigreed Jerseys for the potential of a similar windfall. The sale captured his attention and wonder about what exactly had made this cow special. Ross Butler would become the primary caretaker for his father's newly acquired livestock, and at the age of twelve he recorded their daily habits and illustrated their pedigrees.

Butler's connection with and enthusiasm for the Jersey breed would last throughout his artistic career. The artist's works were adopted in various commercial branding enterprises, including the logo for the Canadian Jersey Cattle Breeders Association (now Jersey Canada), and the trademark emblem for the Canadian Jersey Cattle Club. The designs naturally encompassed his best-known work, developing the True Type breed standards.

Pursuing Perfection

"Breed standards" designate a set of physical and functional qualities that speak to an animal's production and pedigree. Standards can vary provincially and nationally, and are defined by the incorporated association for that breed. Ross Butler was a progressive advocate for the development of Canadian breed standards in the mid-twentieth century, deviating from the use of American breed standards. The artist discovered a pattern of correlated body measurements that led to his theory of perfect animal proportions. He eventually gained eager support from various cattle, poultry, and equestrian breed associations for the adoption of these standards, though not without initial difficulty and dismissal.

Butler's True Types serve as a guide to his theory of animal proportions. Within his creative practice, animal portraiture continues to represent the greater body of his work. The True Types are evidence of his idealist and emotive affinities. Beyond perfection, Butler's paintings of animals share a unique lifelike quality and individual personality. The True Type paintings represent not one particular animal, but rather the ideal for that breed. The detail with which he built distinct characteristics is both impressive and sympathetic. This attention to detail, combined with his apparent adoration for animals, is exceptional and an important facet of Butler's life's work.

Branding Butler

Ross Butler's commissioned designs exemplify his determination and the journey of forming a legacy within the canon of agricultural art. He leveraged his strongest creation, the True Type. Following much opposition, he eventually secured a contract with the Department of Education that dispersed hundreds of thousands of his photolithographs to decorate the walls of schools across Canada. This contract would transform his cows and bulls into icons of Canada's agrarian past.
Some of Butler's earliest initiatives included painted glass slides that were displayed on the Capitol Theatre's screen before the showing of each movie. This venture may not have carried fiscal gains, but that did not deter an inspired artist. He found inventive ways to continually express his creativity, like the darling "rain shoe" – a stylish art deco design that protects a walker's calf from splattered mud. The design was successfully patented by Butler and then purchased by the Dominion Rubber Company. Butler was also known to have expressed his affections through poetry and song. His tender ode from 1929, "You're My One Rose," claimed popularity but rarely involved monetary profits. He also went on to develop a number of branding assignments for various associations and businesses, including the Township of Norwich, Dawes Brewery in Quebec, and the aforementioned Jersey Canada.

The First Settler at Woodstock is a brilliant example of Ross Butler's devotion and immense pride in branding his legacy within the canon of Woodstock's agricultural past. From the beginning, Butler persisted with absolute determination to build a name for himself within the context of Woodstock and Oxford County. To celebrate his inventiveness, this exhibition includes commercial enterprises that sought to reconcile the need for both self-sufficiency and artistic expression.

Exhibiting Percheron

Motivated by his painting of a black Percheron horse, Ross Butler decided to travel to Columbus, Ohio to attend the National Dairy and Percheron Show. While many of his efforts in Canada thus far seemed undervalued, this trip was certainly encouraging from its start. It began with a serendipitous connection made with the National Director of the Percheron Association. During introductions, Butler proposed that his painting be considered in the competition for the ideal type. His artwork landed at the show's entrance – visible to an audience composed of judges, professors, and breeders alike. The immediate support was unlike any typical proposals and became particularly rewarding.
Presenting his theory of animal proportions at the National Percheron Show resulted in a commission to paint the True Types of the breed. Butler returned home from the Columbus show in confident triumph. The commission also included quarter-scale Percheron statues – a medium not yet investigated by Butler. From clay dug from the banks of the Otter Creek swimming hole on his father's farm in Norwich, Butler's model would gain eager approval from the True Type Percheron committee. Gaining approval from the Canadian committee, however, was much more strenuous. Nevertheless, this new medium and the artist's theory of proportions were naturally leading him to new and exciting opportunities. Ross Butler's agricultural art has seeped into all corners of the rural community; however, his creative initiatives exhibited at the fair were widely recognized during his lifetime.

At the Fair

Over 250 years ago, in 1765, Canada held its first fair in Windsor, Nova Scotia. Since then, Canadian fairs have become a conventional community feature in many cities, reaching to the west coast. For Ross Butler, the fairgrounds were exciting, rewarding, and undoubtedly the cultural hub for agricultural communities. His involvement at the fairs started at a young age when he was employed to