# Java collections framework

The Java collections framework is a set of classes and interfaces that implement commonly reusable collection data structures.

Although referred to as a framework, it works in a manner of a library. The collections framework provides both interfaces that define various collections and classes that implement them.

Differences from Arrays
Collections and arrays are similar in that they both hold references to objects and they can be managed as a group. However, unlike arrays, Collections do not need to be assigned a certain capacity when instantiated. Collections can grow and shrink in size automatically when objects are added or removed. 

Collections cannot hold primitive data types such as int, long, or double. Instead, Collections can hold wrapper classes such as , , or .

Collections are generic and hence invariant, but arrays are covariant. This can be considered an advantage of generic objects such as  when compared to arrays, because under circumstances, using the generic  instead of an array prevents run time exceptions by instead throwing a compile-time exception to inform the developer to fix the code. For example, if a developer declares an  object, and assigns the  object to the value returned by a new  instance with a certain capacity, no compile-time exception will be thrown. If the developer attempts to add a  to this  object, the java program will throw an . On the other hand, if the developer instead declared a new instance of a  as , the Java compiler will (correctly) throw a compile-time exception to indicate that the code is written with incompatible and incorrect type, thus preventing any potential run-time exceptions.The developer can fix the code by instantianting  as an  object. If the code is using Java SE7 or later versions, the developer can instatiate  as an  object by using the diamond operator

Collections are generic and hence reified, but arrays are not reified.

History
Collection implementations in pre-JDK 1.2 versions of the Java platform included few data structure classes, but did not contain a collections framework. The standard methods for grouping Java objects were via the array, the Vector, and the Hashtable classes, which unfortunately were not easy to extend, and did not implement a standard member interface.

To address the need for reusable collection data structures, several independent frameworks were developed, the most used being Doug Lea's Collections package, and ObjectSpace Generic Collection Library (JGL), whose main goal was consistency with the C++ Standard Template Library (STL).

The collections framework was designed and developed primarily by Joshua Bloch, and was introduced in JDK 1.2. It reused many ideas and classes from Doug Lea's Collections package, which was deprecated as a result. Sun Microsystems chose not to use the ideas of JGL, because they wanted a compact framework, and consistency with C++ was not one of their goals.

Doug Lea later developed a concurrency package, comprising new Collection-related classes. An updated version of these concurrency utilities was included in JDK 5.0 as of JSR 166.

Architecture
Almost all collections in Java are derived from the  interface. Collection defines the basic parts of all collections. 

The interface has the  and  methods for adding to and removing from a Collection respectively. It also has the  method, which converts the Collection into an array of Objects in the Collection (with return type of Object[]). Finally, the 
 method checks if a specified element exists in the Collection. 

The Collection interface is a subinterface of , so any Collection may be the target of a for-each statement. (The Iterable interface provides the  method used by for-each statements.) All Collections have an  that goes through all of the elements in the Collection.

Collection is generic. Any Collection can store any . For example, any implementation of  contains  objects. No casting is required when using the  objects from an implementation of Collection<String>.  Note that the angled brackets  can hold a type argument that specifies which type the Collection holds.

Types of collection 
There are several generic types of Collection: Queues, maps, lists and sets.

Queues allow the programmer to insert items in a certain order and retrieve those items in the same order. An example is a waiting list. The base interfaces for queues are called Queue.

Dictionaries/Maps store references to objects with a lookup key to access the object's values. One example of a key is an identification card. The base interface for dictionaries/maps is called Map.

Lists are finite collections where it can store the same value multiple times.

Sets are unordered collections that can be iterated and contain each element at most once. The base interface for sets is called Set.

List interface
Lists are implemented in the collections framework via the interface. It defines a list as essentially a more flexible version of an array. Elements have a specific order, and duplicate elements are allowed. Elements can be placed in a specific position. They can also be searched for within the list.

List implementations
There are several concrete classes that implement List, including  and all of its corresponding subclasses, as well as .

AbstractList class
The direct subclasses of  class include ,  and .

 is an example of a skeletal implementation, which leverages and combines the advantages of interfaces and abstract classes by making it easy for the developer to develop their own implementation for the given interface.

ArrayList class
The  class implements the List as an array. Whenever functions specific to a List are required, the class moves the elements around within the array in order to do it.

LinkedList class
The  class stores the elements in nodes that each have a pointer to the previous and next nodes in the List. The List can be traversed by following the pointers, and elements can be added or removed simply by changing the pointers around to place the node in its proper place.

Vector class
The  class has  as its direct subclass. This is an example of a violation of the composition over inheritance principle in the Java platform libraries, since in computer science, a vector is generally not a stack. Composition would have been more appropriate in this scenario.

Stack class
The Stack class extends class  with five operations that allow a Vector to be treated as a Stack.
Stacks are created using . The Stack offers methods to put a new object on the Stack (method ) and to get objects from the Stack (method ). A Stack returns the object according to last-in-first-out (LIFO), e.g. the object which was placed latest on the Stack is returned first. java.util.Stack is a standard implementation of a stack provided by Java.

The Stack class represents a last-in-first-out (LIFO) stack of objects. The Stack class has five additional operations that allow a Vector to be treated as a Stack. The usual  and  operations are provided, as well as a method () to peek at the top item on the Stack, a method to test for whether the Stack is empty (), and a method to search the Stack for an item and discover how far it is from the top (). When a Stack is first created, it contains no items.

CopyOnWriteArrayList class
The  extends the  class, and does not extend any other classes.  allows for thread-safety without performing excessive synchronization. 

In some scenarios, synchronization is mandatory. For example, if a method modifies a static field, and the method must be called by multiple threads, then synchronization is mandatory and concurrency utilities such as  should not be used. 

However synchronization can incur a performance overhead. For scenarios where synchronization is not mandatory, then the  is a viable, thread-safe alternative to synchronization that leverages multi-core processors and results in higher CPU utilization.

Queue interfaces
The  interface defines the queue data structure, which stores elements in the order in which they are inserted. New additions go to the end of the line, and elements are removed from the front. It creates a first-in first-out system. This interface is implemented by java.util.LinkedList, , and .

Queue implementations

AbstractQueue class
The direct subclasses of  class include , , , ,
.
 and 
.

Note that  and  both extend  but do not extend any other abstact classes such as .

 is an example of a skeletal implementation.

PriorityQueue class
The java.util.PriorityQueue class implements java.util.Queue, but also alters it. PriorityQueue has an additional  method. Instead of elements being ordered in the order in which they are inserted, they are ordered by priority. The method used to determine priority is either the  method in the elements, or a method given in the constructor. The class creates this by using a heap to keep the items sorted.

ConcurrentLinkedQueue class
The java.util.concurrent.ConcurrentLinkedQueue