# Baku Slavic University

Baku Slavic University (BSU) () is a public university located in Baku, Azerbaijan.

At the university, specializing in the study of Slavic and German languages, diplomats, philologists-teachers, translators of Russian, Polish, Czech, English, German, Bulgarian, Greek, Ukrainian, Belarusian, French, Serbian, Croatian, Slovak, Turkish, as well as specialists in international relations, diplomacy, linguistics, culture, geography, history, law, economics of these countries are trained.                            
Baku Slavic University cooperates with universities and institutions of Eastern and Central European states and has concluded student exchange agreements with universities of Russian Federation, Poland, Ukraine, the Czech Republic, Germany, Greece, Bulgaria, France, Slovakia, Serbia, Belarus, Croatia, Slovenia, United Kingdom, Turkey, Romania, Moldova, North Macedonia, all Central Asia countries (Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Uzbekistan), the Baltic states (Latvia, Lithuania, Estonia).

The Baku Slavic University is a member of the International Personnel Academy, the Association of European Universities (Magna Charta Universitatum), the Association of Universities of the Black Sea Basin, the International Association of Teachers of Russian Language and Literature (MAPRYAL).

History 
1946 the Council of People's Commissars of the USSR in the Order No. 1313 dated February 2 and May 15, the decision of the Council of Ministers of the Azerbaijan Soviet Socialist Republic on the basis of a two-year Akhundov Azerbaijan State Institute of Teachers has been established. Associate professor ASLoginov was appointed head of the institute. The first academic year, 108 people were accepted to the institute. There were 28 employees of the institute.

30 July1948 in the profession of a teacher of Russian language and literature in secondary schools of Azerbaijan holds first graduation of the specialists was held.

1952 in the preparation of teachers of Russian language Akhundov Teachers' Institute was transformed into the Pedagogical Institute of the four-year academic term. The largest educational and scientific center of the rusistika later became a center of higher education – the preparation of teachers of Russian language and literature for secondary schools, specialized high schools, was created.

1952 300 people were in the plan. 1952–1953 of the academic year, 40 teachers working at the institute, of which 12 people with a master's degree, associate professor, 3 of them in science class teacher, head teacher, not the degree of 10 people, 15 people were teachers.

1956–1957 in the academic year, the institute was held at five-year education system. The initial phase of its rich history (1952–1959) Akhundov Pedagogical Institute of Russian Language and Literature of the Russian language and literature teachers for secondary schools developed into the largest specialized institution. During this period, the institute developed a teacher of Russian language and literature up to 4000.

14 April 1959 in the Central Committee of the Communist Party of Azerbaijan and the Azerbaijan SSR Council of Ministers "of the Azerbaijan Soviet Socialist Republic on development of higher pedagogical schools," the decision was adopted. According to an official document of the MF and the Azerbaijan Pedagogical Institute of Russian Language and Literature databases on the basis of the Azerbaijan Pedagogical Institute of Foreign Languages named after MF Azerbaijan Pedagogical Institute of Languages was created.

1959 in the composition of APDI Akhundov 15 departments with 188 professors and teachers were operating. During this period, 3700 students studied at the institute. 1966–1967 in the academic year, departments were reorganized, new faculties were created. Faculty of Russian language and literature in two directions – the direction of the Russian language and language functioning in Azerbaijan, was established here in the department of Spanish.

1972 In the first secretary of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of Azerbaijan Heydar Aliyev and the government's initiative of 2 November 1972 on the basis of the decision No. 362 dated the Azerbaijan Pedagogical University named after MF Languages of Azerbaijan Pedagogical Institute of Russian Language and Literature Institute of the base of the same name was restored. All the training and education and scientific research institute of the department implemented 18. At that time, the education center, 280 teachers, including 6 doctors, professors and 84 candidates of sciences, senior lecturer working.

1974 in two of the faculty at the institute - # 1 for students graduating from secondary school in the Russian language, Russian language and literature, for students graduating from the Azeri language in # 2, a decision was made on the establishment of Russian language and literature departments. Scientific-research and educational institute meets goals and objectives, purposeful character and Azerbaijan National Academy of Sciences of the Coordination Council of the plan was carried out. During the period of operation of the teaching staff of the institute, the All-Union and international scale scientific-methodical conferences, seminars, and symposium probably took an active part.

Modern history 
1994 in accordance with international standards of the new four-year curriculum for undergraduate training has taken place.

President of the Republic of Azerbaijan, Heydar Aliyev, 13 June 2000 in the MF in the decree on the basis of the Azerbaijan Pedagogical Institute of Russian Language and Literature is a unique educational institution in its own direction and the entire eastern region known as the rare specialties training of professional staff in carrying out the high school – was established in Baku Slavic University.

Well-known scholar, doctor of philological sciences, professor, honored scientist Nurlana Aliyev by the decree of the President of the republic, was appointed the rector of BSU. Developed and implemented a broad program of reforms under his leadership, the university's teaching, education, material-technical base of the completely updated, BSU has become one of the most advanced educational institutions.

With the countries of the world community of independent Azerbaijan, as well as constantly expanding relations with Eastern European states of these countries is not only the language and literature, as well as economy, geography, socio-political system and culture that are deeply conditioned the need for the preparation of highly qualified personnel. The purpose of this task with a high level of implementation of the re-organization of the necessity of having high school emerged. In fact, higher status and ability of students to new educational center providing a wide ixtisaslasmasını created.

BSU in a short period of time, highly qualified, professional staff, educational and scientific potential, with modern infrastructure has become a comprehensive educational institution. This is a unique educational and cultural center of Baku Slavic University as the Slavic peoples of the region and promotes the study of moral values. The Russian, Slavic languages and literature is carried out serious research, not only for our republic, but also highly qualified human resources for a number of Eastern countries. Structural changes which have occurred in the university covers all of its areas of activity.

Quarry in the regular education during the last two years BSU has become a center of scientific slavistika and Slavic culture. Today at Baku Slavic University has 26 departments. University professors and teaching staff of 38 doctors, professors, 184 candidates of sciences, senior lecturer and senior lecturer and teacher, includes more than 200.

Faculties 
There are 5 faculties and 2 departments.
Faculty of Pedagogy.
Bachelor in Russian literature and language with a focus of choice from:
 Elementary teaching.
 Primary school educators.
 Social work and social pedagogics.
 Preschool education and training.
Faculty of Linguistics and foreign language teaching.
Bachelor in Linguistics (Russian/English/French/German language and literature) and Foreign language teaching (Russian/English/French/German). The chair of the faculty includes 7 departments.
Faculty of Translation. 
Bachelor in translation for the English, Greek, Russian, Bulgarian, Ukrainian, Polish and Czech languages.
Faculty of International relations and regional studies. 
Bachelor in International studies and politics with a focus on East (Russia, Ukraine, Poland) and Central Europe (Czech Republic), Balkan (Bulgaria), Greece and Turkey.
Faculty for Azerbaijan linguistics and journalism.

Departments:
Master's department.
Dean's office for International Students.

Base and opportunities Education 
BSU in the "Dictionary Center", "Turkish-Slavic Relations", "Translation Problems", "International Relations" scientif