# Saskatchewan Highway 1

Highway 1 is the Saskatchewan section of the Trans-Canada Highway mainland route. The total distance of the Trans-Canada Highway in Saskatchewan is .  The highway traverses Saskatchewan from the western border with Alberta, from Highway 1, to the Manitoba border where it continues as PTH 1. The Trans-Canada Highway Act was passed on December 10, 1949. The Saskatchewan segment was completed August 21, 1957, and completely twinned on November 6, 2008. The speed limit along the majority of the route is 110 kilometres per hour (70 mph) with urban area thoroughfares slowing to a speed of 80–100 kilometres per hour (50–62 mph). Portions of the highway—the section through Swift Current, an  section east of Moose Jaw, and a  section between the West Regina Bypass and Balgonie—are controlled-access. Highway 1 serves as a major east–west transport route for commercial traffic. It is the main link between southern Saskatchewan's largest cities, and also serves as the province's main link to the neighbouring provinces of Alberta (to the west) and Manitoba (to the east).

The four-lane divided highway passes through three major urban centres of Saskatchewan, Regina, Moose Jaw and Swift Current. A site in the Western Hemisphere Shorebird Reserve Network, an internationally acclaimed shorebird conservation strategy, is at the village of Chaplin approximately equal distance between Swift Current and Moose Jaw. Located southwest of the Trans-Canada is the Cypress Hills Interprovincial Park, which features Fort Walsh and the highest elevation of Saskatchewan. Highway 1 traverses ranch lands, the Missouri Coteau topographical area, and rolling prairie agricultural plains.

The highway generally runs west to east along the route, following parallel with the transcontinental Canadian Pacific Railway route. The Trans-Canada Highway traverses historical settlement areas. The transcontinental railroad of 1885 brought settlers to southern Saskatchewan. Commemorative historical sites along the Trans-Canada Highway mark the historical changes of the 72 years since the CPR came through.

On November 9, 2011, the section between Moose Jaw and Regina was designated "Saskatchewan's Highway of Heroes" to honour province's soldiers who died in service

Origins

The Minister of Mines and Resources held the first Federal-Provincial Conference regarding the Trans-Canada Highway in December, 1948. With consent from all provinces, the Trans–Canada Highway Act was passed on December 10, 1949. Following this a second Federal-Provincial Conference was held to bring together the final details for the agreement. The Highway Act aims for the completion of the Trans–Canada Highway route by December, 1956.  The third Federal-Provincial Conference hold April 25, 1950  saw Ontario, Manitoba, British Columbia, Prince Edward Island, Saskatchewan and Alberta sign the agreement which provided federal funding for the proposed transcontinental highway. The shortest and most practical routes could be chosen by each province respectively, given that provinces adjacent to one another agree on the meeting locations. The transcontinental hard-surfaced two lane highway was to have pavement widths of  and ; shoulder widths, low gradients and curvature; bridge clearances and sight distances; few railway grade crossings; and be able to bear load capacities of 9 tons an axle.  As of 1950,  have been agreed to.  By 1955, the Trans–Canada Highway program had only seen  of highway completed in areas outside of Quebec.   of the paved  of the Canadian highway Trans–Canada highway system had been completed by November 1, 1955 to Trans–Canada Highway standards.  Premier T.C. Douglas presided over the opening ceremonies on August 21, 1957, opening the  Saskatchewan segment of the Trans–Canada Highway

The Special Projects Branch of the Department of Resources and Development administers the Trans–Canada highway Act checking specifications, and prior construction.  The contributions from the Dominion Government to the provinces may be up to 50 per cent of the cost of construction approved by the Governor in council.  The actual construction is controlled by each Provincial Highway Department respectively.  The estimated length of mileage for Saskatchewan is  of the total .

1957 saw the Saskatchewan portion of the Trans–Canada Highway come to completion, the first province to finish their section in Canada. The year 1962 saw the entire Canadian  highway completed which came to a total expenditure of $1.4 billion (about $18.26 billion today).  The last of the highway between Moosomin and Wapella was twinned and opened on November 6, 2008, providing a completely twinned corridor.  The total cost of twinning was $217 million with the Canadian government contributing $59 million.

History

A First Nation trail used by fur traders, and Red River carts pulling settlers effects was the first path between Moosomin and Fort Ellice, Manitoba. The transcontinental CPR paralleled this trail when coming through in the late 19th and early 20th centuries.

Provincial Highway 4, the precursor of the Trans–Canada Saskatchewan Highway 1 followed the surveyed grade of the transcontinental CPR between the Alberta and Manitoba border. Travel along Provincial Highway 4 before the 1940s would have been travelling on the square following the township road allowances, barbed wire fencing and rail lines.  As the surveyed township roads were the easiest to travel, the  first highway was designed on 90 degree right angle corners as the distance traversed the prairie along range roads and township roads.  Two horse then eight horse scrapers maintained these early dirt roads.

One of the problems that came about was when the Manitoba survey met the Saskatchewan survey. The Manitoba survey allowed for  road allowances placed east and west every .  This system was followed west of Manitoba until just north of Indian Head.  Whereas, the Saskatchewan survey conducted in 1887, allowed for   road allowances and placed roads east and west every .  The two surveys needed a  correction which took years to smooth out.

Agriculture is Saskatchewan's main industry and taking grain to elevators was first accomplished by horse and cart, to be replaced around World War I by truck travel. Long haul trucking flourished between 1950 and 1970, and the trans–Canada was completed across Canada by 1970.  Since the 1970s, 17 times the number of grain trucks and 95 per cent of goods transported now are hauled by truck across the Saskatchewan.

Speed limits

From the Alberta border (eastbound from Medicine Hat and Calgary), Highway 1 is a four–lane divided highway with a speed limit of . (Short stretches through the infrequent urban areas are at  though). Moose Jaw has 4 lane traffic bypassing the main portion of the city with a strictly enforced  speed limit with photo radar.  At Regina, the official course is via the Regina Bypass, a controlled-access highway located south of the city that opened in October 2019, and has a speed limit of . After Regina, Highway 1 continues onward to Brandon and Winnipeg.

Communities

Alberta to Swift Current

Travelling west along the highway on the Alberta side, Highway 1 reaches Medicine Hat, Brooks, and Calgary. Travelling east, the highway begins near Walsh, Alberta and crosses into Saskatchewan entering into the Rural Municipality (R.M.) of Maple Creek, which was established December 10, 1917. (A rural municipality (R.M.) was an elected governing system providing essential services such as police, fire, health, education and infrastructure services for rural residents.  Historically, community residents could pay taxes or supply a couple days per quarter section labour constructing roads, bridges, and fireguards instead of paying taxes.) Maple Creek, a town of 2,198 residents (2006 census), was established in 1883 and is located  8 kilometres south of the Trans-Canada Highway 1 via Highway 21.

The next R.M. is Piapot No 110 and a ghost town of Sidewood an early ranching area of Saskatchewan. Sidewood served residents between 1911 and 1952. Piapot No 110 first provided infrastructure improvements for this rural area in 1913 and is now an administrative division for a rural population of 392 residents.  The small village of Piapot has a southerly access to Highway 1 also via Highway 614.

The village of Tompkins, and the town of Gull Lake are among the communities of R.M. of Gull Lake No 139. Both Tompkins with its  173 residents and Gull Lake serving 965 residents have their own municipal government. Gull Lake is an older community establishing its post office April 1, 1889. The south Saskatchewan region, an early ranching area was home to the 76 Ranch.  The ranch house, constructed in 1888, is now the Gull Lake School Division office.  Within Gull Lake No 139, which was created in 1913, are several wind turbine generators that can be seen when traversing the  Trans–Canada Highway.

A neighbouring village of Webb