CV/Graphics Research

Title: Ship Detection in SAR Images Based on Feature Enhancement Swin Transformer and Adjacent Feature Fusion

Abstract:
Convolutional neural networks (CNNs) have achieved milestones in object detection of synthetic aperture radar (SAR) images. Recently, vision transformers and their variants have shown great promise in detection tasks. However, ship detection in SAR images remains a substantial challenge because of the characteristics of strong scattering, multi-scale, and complex backgrounds of ship objects in SAR images. This paper proposes an enhancement Swin transformer detection network, named ESTDNet, to complete the ship detection in SAR images to solve the above problems. We adopt the Swin transformer of Cascade-R-CNN (Cascade R-CNN Swin) as a benchmark model in ESTDNet. Based on this, we built two modules in ESTDNet: the feature enhancement Swin transformer (FESwin) module for improving feature extraction capability and the adjacent feature fusion (AFF) module for optimizing feature pyramids. Firstly, the FESwin module is employed as the backbone network, aggregating contextual information about perceptions before and after the Swin transformer model using CNN. It uses single-point channel information interaction as the primary and local spatial information interaction as the secondary for scale fusion based on capturing visual dependence through self-attention, which improves spatial-to-channel feature expression and increases the utilization of ship information from SAR images. Secondly, the AFF module is a weighted selection fusion of each high-level feature in the feature pyramid with its adjacent shallow-level features using learnable adaptive weights, allowing the ship information of SAR images to be focused on the feature maps at more scales and improving the recognition and localization capability for ships in SAR images. Finally, the ablation study conducted on the SSDD dataset validates the effectiveness of the two components proposed in the ESTDNet detector. Moreover, the experiments executed on two public datasets consisting of SSDD and SARShip demonstrate that the ESTDNet detector outperforms the state-of-the-art methods, which provides a new idea for ship detection in SAR images.