CV/Graphics Research

Title: Deep structured learning with vision intelligence for oral carcinoma lesion segmentation and classification using medical imaging

Abstract:
Oral carcinoma (OC) is a toxic illness among the most general malignant cancers globally, and it has developed a gradually significant public health concern in emerging and low-to-middle-income states. Late diagnosis, high incidence, and inadequate treatment strategies remain substantial challenges. Analysis at an initial phase is significant for good treatment, prediction, and existence. Despite the current growth in the perception of molecular devices, late analysis and methods near precision medicine for OC patients remain a challenge. A machine learning (ML) model was employed to improve early detection in medicine, aiming to reduce cancer-specific mortality and disease progression. Recent advancements in this approach have significantly enhanced the extraction and diagnosis of critical information from medical images. This paper presents a Deep Structured Learning with Vision Intelligence for Oral Carcinoma Lesion Segmentation and Classification (DSLVI-OCLSC) model for medical imaging. Using medical imaging, the DSLVI-OCLSC model aims to enhance OC's classification and recognition outcomes. To accomplish this, the DSLVI-OCLSC model utilizes wiener filtering (WF) as a pre-processing technique to eliminate the noise. In addition, the ShuffleNetV2 method is used for the group of higher-level deep features from an input image. The convolutional bidirectional long short-term memory network with a multi-head attention mechanism (MA-CNN-BiLSTM) approach is utilized for oral carcinoma recognition and identification. Moreover, the Unet3 + is employed to segment abnormal regions from the classified images. Finally, the sine cosine algorithm (SCA) approach is utilized to hyperparameter-tune the DL model. A wide range of simulations is implemented to ensure the enhanced performance of the DSLVI-OCLSC method under the OC images dataset. The experimental analysis of the DSLVI-OCLSC method portrayed a superior accuracy value of 98.47% over recent approaches.