CV/Graphics Research

Title: Medical Image Segmentation Algorithm for Three-Dimensional Multimodal Using Deep Reinforcement Learning and Big Data Analytics

Abstract:
To avoid the problems of relative overlap and low signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) of segmented three-dimensional (3D) multimodal medical images, which limit the effect of medical image diagnosis, a 3D multimodal medical image segmentation algorithm using reinforcement learning and big data analytics is proposed. Bayesian maximum a posteriori estimation method and improved wavelet threshold function are used to design wavelet shrinkage algorithm to remove high-frequency signal component noise in wavelet domain. The low-frequency signal component is processed by bilateral filtering and the inverse wavelet transform is used to denoise the 3D multimodal medical image. An end-to-end DRD U-Net model based on deep reinforcement learning is constructed. The feature extraction capacity of denoised image segmentation is increased by changing the convolution layer in the traditional reinforcement learning model to the residual module and introducing the multiscale context feature extraction module. The 3D multimodal medical image segmentation is done using the reward and punishment mechanism in the deep learning reinforcement algorithm. In order to verify the effectiveness of 3D multimodal medical image segmentation algorithm, the LIDC-IDRI data set, the SCR data set, and the DeepLesion data set are selected as the experimental data set of this article. The results demonstrate that the algorithm's segmentation effect is effective. When the number of iterations is increased to 250, the structural similarity reaches 98%, the SNR is always maintained between 55 and 60 dB, the training loss is modest, relative overlap and accuracy all exceed 95%, and the overall segmentation performance is superior. Readers will understand how deep reinforcement learning and big data analytics test the effectiveness of 3D multimodal medical image segmentation algorithm.