CV/Graphics Research

Title: Selecting the best optimizers for deep learning–based medical image segmentation

Abstract:
Purpose: The goal of this work is to explore the best optimizers for deep learning in the context of medical image segmentation and to provide guidance on how to design segmentation networks with effective optimization strategies. Approach: Most successful deep learning networks are trained using two types of stochastic gradient descent (SGD) algorithms: adaptive learning and accelerated schemes. Adaptive learning helps with fast convergence by starting with a larger learning rate (LR) and gradually decreasing it. Momentum optimizers are particularly effective at quickly optimizing neural networks within the accelerated schemes category. By revealing the potential interplay between these two types of algorithms [LR and momentum optimizers or momentum rate (MR) in short], in this article, we explore the two variants of SGD algorithms in a single setting. We suggest using cyclic learning as the base optimizer and integrating optimal values of learning rate and momentum rate. The new optimization function proposed in this work is based on the Nesterov accelerated gradient optimizer, which is more efficient computationally and has better generalization capabilities compared to other adaptive optimizers. Results: We investigated the relationship of LR and MR under an important problem of medical image segmentation of cardiac structures from MRI and CT scans. We conducted experiments using the cardiac imaging dataset from the ACDC challenge of MICCAI 2017, and four different architectures were shown to be successful for cardiac image segmentation problems. Our comprehensive evaluations demonstrated that the proposed optimizer achieved better results (over a 2% improvement in the dice metric) than other optimizers in the deep learning literature with similar or lower computational cost in both single and multi-object segmentation settings. Conclusions: ) to address the efficiency and accuracy problems in deep learning-based medical image segmentation. The proposed strategy yielded better generalization in comparison to adaptive optimizers.