CV/Graphics Research

Title: Matrix Macromolecules in Hard Tissues Control the Nucleation and Hierarchical Assembly of Hydroxyapatite

Abstract:
Biogenic minerals found in teeth and bones are synthesized by precise cell-mediated mechanisms. They have superior mechanical properties due to their complex architecture. Control over biomineral properties can be accomplished by regulation of particle size, shape, crystal orientation, and polymorphic structure. In many organisms, biogenic minerals are assembled using a transient amorphous mineral phase. Here we report that organic constituents of bones and teeth, namely type I collagen and dentin matrix protein 1 (DMP1), are effective crystal modulators. They control nucleation of calcium phosphate polymorphs and the assembly of hierarchically ordered crystalline composite material. Both full-length recombinant DMP1 and post-translationally modified native DMP1 were able to nucleate hydroxyapatite (HAP) in the presence of type I collagen. However, the N-terminal domain of DMP1 (amino acid residues 1–334) inhibited HAP formation and stabilized the amorphous phase that was formed. During the nucleation and growth process, the initially formed metastable amorphous calcium phosphate phase transformed into thermodynamically stable crystalline hydroxyapatite in a precisely controlled manner. The organic matrix-mediated controlled transformation of amorphous calcium phosphate into crystalline HAP was confirmed by x-ray diffraction, selected area electron diffraction pattern, Raman spectroscopy, and elemental analysis. The mechanical properties of the protein-mediated HAP crystals were also determined as they reflect the material structure. Such understanding of biomolecule controls on biomineralization promises new insights into the controlled synthesis of crystalline structures. Biogenic minerals found in teeth and bones are synthesized by precise cell-mediated mechanisms. They have superior mechanical properties due to their complex architecture. Control over biomineral properties can be accomplished by regulation of particle size, shape, crystal orientation, and polymorphic structure. In many organisms, biogenic minerals are assembled using a transient amorphous mineral phase. Here we report that organic constituents of bones and teeth, namely type I collagen and dentin matrix protein 1 (DMP1), are effective crystal modulators. They control nucleation of calcium phosphate polymorphs and the assembly of hierarchically ordered crystalline composite material. Both full-length recombinant DMP1 and post-translationally modified native DMP1 were able to nucleate hydroxyapatite (HAP) in the presence of type I collagen. However, the N-terminal domain of DMP1 (amino acid residues 1–334) inhibited HAP formation and stabilized the amorphous phase that was formed. During the nucleation and growth process, the initially formed metastable amorphous calcium phosphate phase transformed into thermodynamically stable crystalline hydroxyapatite in a precisely controlled manner. The organic matrix-mediated controlled transformation of amorphous calcium phosphate into crystalline HAP was confirmed by x-ray diffraction, selected area electron diffraction pattern, Raman spectroscopy, and elemental analysis. The mechanical properties of the protein-mediated HAP crystals were also determined as they reflect the material structure. Such understanding of biomolecule controls on biomineralization promises new insights into the controlled synthesis of crystalline structures. Dentin is an anisotropic composite possessing superior mechanical properties that is assembled by cell-mediated processes. Odontoblasts, which are specialized dentin-forming cells, synthesize the major constituents of the dentin matrix, namely type I collagen and noncollagenous proteins. They also have the ability to regulate their content of mineral ions and to sequester these ions into aggregates (1Linde A. Lundgren T. Int. J. Dev. Biol. 1995; 39: 213-222PubMed Google Scholar, 2Veis A. Science. 2005; 307: 1419-1420Crossref PubMed Scopus (150) Google Scholar). The organic matrix exerts a great degree of crystallographic control over the nucleation and growth of mineral particles (3Du C. Falini G. Fermani S. Abbott C. Moradian-Oldak J. Science. 2005; 307: 1450-1454Crossref PubMed Scopus (307) Google Scholar, 4Butler W.T. Ritchie H. Int. J. Dev. Biol. 1995; 39: 169-179PubMed Google Scholar, 5George A. Srinivasan R. Thotakura S. Veis A. Eur. J. Oral Sci. 1998; 106: 221-226Crossref PubMed Scopus (24) Google Scholar). Type I collagen, the predominant matrix protein in bone and teeth, possesses self-assembling properties and forms enclosed spaces within which the inorganic reinforcing phase grows. Various biochemical mechanisms and genetic regulations control the flux of organic components and maintain sufficient supersaturation of the mineral ions in the localized space. When the degree of super-saturation of calcium and phosphate ions is high, HAP, 2The abbreviations used are: HAP, hydroxyapatite; DMP1, dentin matrix protein 1; GPa, gigapascal(s); XRD, x-ray diffraction; SAED, selected area electron diffraction; ACP, amorphous calcium phosphate; DCPD, dicalcium phosphate dihydrate; SEM, scanning electron microscopy; TEM, transmission electron microscopy; EDX, energy dispersive x-ray; Ca/P ratio, calcium to phosphate ratio; ICPAES, inductively coupled plasma atomic emission spectroscopy; CDMP1, C-terminal DMP1; NDMP1, N-terminal DMP1; rDMP1, recombinant DMP1; ASTM, American Society for Testing and Materials Standards. which is thermodynamically more stable, is formed via intermediate precursor polymorphs such as amorphous calcium phosphate (ACP), octacalcium phosphate, or dicalcium phosphate dihydrate (DCPD) (6Eanes E.D. Monogr. Oral Sci. 2001; 18: 130-147Crossref PubMed Scopus (93) Google Scholar, 7Eanes E.D. Gillessen I.H. Posner A. Nature. 1965; 208: 365-367Crossref PubMed Scopus (420) Google Scholar). It is well established that type I collagen matrix does not have the capacity to induce matrix-specific mineral formation from metastable calcium phosphate solutions that do not spontaneously precipitate but merely provide the organizational framework and spatial constraint for crystal deposition, whereas noncollagenous matrix macromolecules might be involved in the control of nucleation and growth of the mineral phase (8Boskey A.L. Clin. Orthop. Relat. Res. 1992; 281: 244-274PubMed Google Scholar, 9Hunter G.K. Hauschka P.V. Poole A.R. Rosenberg L.C. Goldberg H.A. Biochem. J. 1996; 317: 59-64Crossref PubMed Scopus (528) Google Scholar, 10Tartaix P.H. Doulaverakis M. George A. Fisher L.W. Butler W.T. Qin C. Salih E. Tan M. Fujimoto Y. Spevak L. Boskey A.L. J. Biol. Chem. 2004; 279: 18115-18120Abstract Full Text Full Text PDF PubMed Scopus (155) Google Scholar, 11Veis A. J. Bone Miner. Res. 1993; 8: S493-S497PubMed Google Scholar). Dentin consists of numerous noncollagenous proteins. Some of these macromolecules are generally highly acidic and often contain aspartic acid, glutamic acid, and serine. Such noncollagenous proteins are believed to provide the driving force required to reduce the activation energy of nucleation and formation of apatite. Dentin matrix protein 1 (DMP1), a noncollagenous protein present in the mineral phase of bone and dentin in every species examined, has been studied as a model for proteins involved in the regulation of biomineralization (12George A. Sabsay B. Simonian P.A. Veis A. J. Biol. Chem. 1993; 268: 12624-12630Abstract Full Text PDF PubMed Google Scholar, 13Qin C. Xiaoling S. Jarrod J. George A. Ramachandran A. Jeffrey P.G. Butler W.T. Eur. J. Oral Sci. 2001; 109: 133-141Crossref PubMed Scopus (101) Google Scholar, 14George A. Silberstein R. Veis A. Connect. Tissue Res. 1995; 33: 67-72Crossref PubMed Scopus (63) Google Scholar, 15Hao J. Zou B. Narayanan K. George A. Bone. 2004; 34: 921-932Crossref PubMed Scopus (82) Google Scholar, 16Narayanan K. Srinivas R. Ramachandran A. Hao J. Quinn B. George A. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U. S. A. 2001; 98: 4516-4521Crossref PubMed Scopus (220) Google Scholar, 17He G. Gajjeraman S. Schultz D. Cookson D. Qin C. Butler W.T. Hao J. George A. Biochemistry. 2005; 44: 16140-16148Crossref PubMed Scopus (126) Google Scholar). In addition to its potent calcium binding capacity, DMP1 binds with high affinity to fibrillar collagen (18He G. George A. J. Biol. Chem. 2004; 279: 11649-11656Abstract Full Text Full Text PDF PubMed Scopus (188) Google Scholar). This complex organic matrix induces heterogeneous nucleation of calcium phosphate crystals and regulates crystal growth resulting in unique crystal morphologies (19He G. Dahl T. Veis A. George A. Nat. Mater. 2003; 2: 552-558Crossref PubMed Scopus (455) Google Scholar). Deciphering the biological basis of biomineralization using tooth as a paradigm might unveil the mechanisms by which protein assemblies can determine the biomineral structure in vertebrates. In this study, we discuss the hierarchical assembly of hydroxyapatite at the nanoscale level by demonstrating the formation of de novo amorphous calcium phosphate as an intermediate phase in the presence of an organic matrix, namely type I collagen and DMP1. Subsequently the precipitates transformed into crystalline HAP structures with outstanding mechanical properties. We investigated the process of HAP nucleation using both recombinant and native DMP1 in the presence and absence of type I collagen, native and recombinant C-terminal DMP1 with and without type I collagen, and recombinant N-terminal DMP1 with and without type I collagen. We compared our in vitro data with the HAP crystal growth pattern in a rat incisor model. Published reports demonstrate the use of two different crystal growth techniques, namely solution and gel techniques, for in vitro nucleation assays (20Jiang H. Liu X.-Y. J. Biol. Chem. 2004; 279: 41286-41293Abstract Full Text Full Text PDF PubMed Scopus (49) Google Scholar, 21Tarasevich B.J. Chusuei C.C. Allara D.L J. Phys. Chem. B. 2003; 107: 10367-10377Crossref Scopus (62) Google Scholar, 22Gericke A. Qin C. Spevak L. Fujimoto Y. Butler W.T. Sorensen E.S. Calcif. Tissue Int. 2005; 77: 45-54Crossref PubMed Scopus (256) Google Scholar). Among these two methods, artificially formed gels and fibrous networks are excellent systems for studying crystallization because of the control they afford over local supersaturation and diffusion rates, and the physicochemical nature of this process more realistically mimics the mineralized tissue matrix environment (23Estroff L.A. Addadi L. Weiner S. Hamilton A.D. Org. Biomol. Chem. 2004; 2: 137-141Crossref PubMed Scopus (113) Google Scholar, 24Sivakumar G.R. Kalkura S.N. Ramasamy P. Mater. Chem. Phys. 1999; 57: 238-243Crossref Scopus (13) Google Scholar). In this study, sodium metasilicate gels were used as a crystallizing medium due to the following advantages. (a) Proteins are incorporated into the gel at room temperature, and hence they are not denatured and remain stable the of the The are with from the medium without of sodium The can be The medium is highly that the can be Type I collagen was and as Veis A. PubMed Scopus Google Scholar). DMP1 was and as R. B. George A. Connect. Tissue Res. 1999; PubMed Scopus Google Scholar). the domain in DMP1 that was for HAP the of rat DMP1 was into two by with a of the required The were and into the and in The protein and by the was by at The were 1–334) and DMP1 and used in in vitro nucleation were from rat bone and were from Qin C. Veis A. Butler W.T. J. Biol. Chem. 2003; Full Text Full Text PDF PubMed Scopus Google Scholar). were by the and controlled the calcium and phosphate ions or without organic in a medium at and The crystallizing medium was by using of sodium metasilicate solution of of 1 of and of The of the medium was sodium solutions were in and with the sodium metasilicate solution The solution was to the protein in the crystallizing the in was over the crystallizing to the diffusion process, the calcium at the of the solution was with of The of calcium ions that into the crystallizing medium with to and also the of on the of the gel are in 1 and of were to the of type I collagen and recombinant or native DMP1, native or recombinant CDMP1, or recombinant on the phase and of the calcium phosphate The of the are in of calcium ions into the sodium metasilicate gel in the of calcium ions into the gel in a new of the gel medium and of calcium ions with to of the medium The of a stable and highly of the of the of the calcium ions in the gel stable, stable, highly stable, highly stable, highly in a new vitro of calcium ions in the crystallizing type I type I native native DMP1 type I type I native native type I type I in a new different and the calcium phosphate were and from the The mineral were used for scanning electron the material was into and used for analysis. The following were used to the mineral and of the calcium or without the organic were at different using a scanning electron The were on an using and with by a at a of of the from at different were from to with a at and with and at a of The were determined as diffraction to the to the of the with the Materials and the were at an to the diffraction the The was and the was Raman Raman were with a in the from to using from an with a of was used to the The Raman was using an and by a transmission electron was used to the calcium by (a) native full-length DMP1, native full-length DMP1 type I collagen, recombinant and native CDMP1, recombinant type I collagen, native type I collagen, recombinant NDMP1, and recombinant type I collagen. the calcium phosphate precipitates were by in an medium and on was also on rat and the and the selected area electron diffraction pattern were determined for of the and C. The present in the mineral were determined using an energy dispersive x-ray to a scanning electron coupled with was used for from and also for rat teeth and C. The calcium to phosphate was from the of the present in the pattern, and these were compared with the from inductively coupled plasma atomic emission of calcium were in of acid The and of the HAP crystals at the of the growth by DMP1 was using is the is the is the at of and is the diffraction The of was from is the from a well M. J. Res. Natl. 2004; 109: PubMed Scopus Google Scholar). mechanical the protein type I hydroxyapatite crystals were into and the was used to a HAP of and of the HAP crystalline were using the of and an of were The the by the by the The of the composite biomineral was from the following is the from the is the of the is the of the HAP is for the and is for the composite The was determined from the The for were from a is the from the of the at of the in the of an phase that in the absence of an organic matrix from the controlled and the calcium and phosphate ions not have a The was confirmed to be amorphous by x-ray diffraction and the pattern from the pattern by and determined the Ca/P to be and this was found to be in with the of for of the formation of of The of by the and the of these that they were aggregates of well crystals confirmed that the of the crystals was and the were found to be in with the data for diffraction by on by and determined the Ca/P for the and the was found to be in with the for also as is a calcium phosphate mineral and is the of the calcium phosphate by and Ca/P in a new of the in the of Type I calcium phosphate crystals a were in the presence of type I collagen The of nucleation was found to in the area amorphous calcium phosphate was the of the amorphous structures were by calcium phosphate confirmed as by as the major at to and growth the confirmed the to be demonstrate that collagen is the major organic of the mineralized matrix of bone and not nucleation of data well with our data J. M. A. Chem. Mater. 1999; Scopus Google Scholar). of in the of the presence of rDMP1, precipitates of amorphous calcium phosphate was of and the x-ray diffraction a in the and that the material was amorphous in nature the pattern from electron diffraction a predominant at in the Raman and the Ca/P of confirmed the amorphous nature of the the precipitate transformed into of on the of the the presence of a of fibrous crystals of in and crystal an in the of the at and of growth the and the The from the pattern at and electron diffraction pattern confirmed that the material was HAP and were in with the diffraction by on in the of the in the Raman with crystal confirmed the transformation from crystalline to highly crystalline HAP The crystalline of HAP was confirmed by and the Ca/P from and was found to be to the Ca/P for HAP the and the the of HAP the of are in an within the a was with crystal the not in or in the at growth Ca/P as from at different growth in the of from data for calcium phosphate at different of the and hydroxyapatite crystals in the presence of DMP1 and collagen DMP1 in a new of and Type I on of type I collagen and the on HAP nucleation and in that the calcium phosphate at the of of growth a unique and such are to the area of with the The formation of in the presence of the organic matrix is a of the phosphate at in the Raman not confirmed that these unique structures were amorphous in the Ca/P was with the the of of crystals from the amorphous phase in a controlled The of the and was by a in the of the crystals predominant at in the Raman was the presence of HAP This is with the of the phosphate The of the phosphate from to confirmed the of to highly crystalline in the of the with crystal confirmed the highly crystalline nature of the of the of the crystals the HAP in a rat incisor that the Ca/P from to with in the transformation and process diffraction data in confirmed the transformation from amorphous to different of from to of crystal of the at and to the and growth The the growth of the crystals in the The of the at for the HAP crystals in the presence of the organic matrix was the of in the presence of DMP1 by The and the for the crystals at the of are in with the for whereas their were with the data for crystalline HAP Both the of the particles and the the growth the Ca/P for the calcium phosphate by type I collagen was the with DMP1 and without Type I determine on DMP1 an on crystal we nucleation using full-length native DMP1. to the of DMP1 from native were for two and The pattern not and Raman confirmed that the calcium phosphate at the of the of the amorphous phase. The and of the calcium phosphate particles at the of and demonstrate formation of to the crystals with the Ca/P was In the presence of type I collagen, the HAP crystals and with a Ca/P of and and the data from the Raman and confirmed that the were of the in the of CDMP1, and in the and of Type I reports C. Veis A. Butler W.T. J. Biol. Chem. 2003; Full Text Full Text PDF PubMed Scopus Google demonstrate that DMP1 can be into an N-terminal and a C-terminal determine the HAP capacity of the two the and were and used for in vitro nucleation with the the data from full-length recombinant and native DMP1 However, in the presence of type I collagen crystals and were and these were confirmed as HAP by the not The Ca/P was found to be the as the for HAP In vitro nucleation were also with native in the presence and absence of type I collagen. of were in the absence of collagen were of and crystals of and the crystals were as HAP by pattern and also by Raman not In the presence of collagen, of HAP crystals were with high and HAP was confirmed by the Ca/P and also from the for in the Raman In the the material at the of was amorphous and an The amorphous nature was confirmed by the pattern and Raman not in vitro nucleation with type I collagen and precipitates that were and they to into HAP of growth and This that the N-terminal DMP1 the capacity to the amorphous calcium phosphate phase. The and confirmed that the by at the of the and were amorphous to This the in the presence and absence of type I collagen. by Raman confirmed that the polymorphs were not of the in a rat incisor is a model to the and of the calcium phosphate crystals at of the dentin assembly In the from the SEM, the in an area with The in an area and this was confirmed by the pattern as a to the of the phase. in mineralized area the calcium phosphate a on its The mineral in this was as HAP from the from these a in the Ca/P from to a transformation from an amorphous to a crystalline phase. are in with our in vitro of HAP by and The of the by the native proteins were from the pattern growth and compared with the recombinant proteins The of the HAP by native DMP1 was that of the rDMP1, whereas the of the HAP by native was more that by be due to the in the acid residues and the presence of in native DMP1. In the presence of type I collagen the of HAP was that in the presence of DMP1 by This be to the growth of HAP within the by type I collagen. and of by and Type I the mechanical properties reflect the material in this properties were determined for HAP crystals in the presence of proteins. The of HAP crystals by and DMP1 in with type I collagen were studied using the from which the and were for both are in a and The of the crystalline HAP was found to be GPa, whereas the of HAP crystals in the presence of type I collagen and was found to be are with the Scholar, H. B. J. Res. PubMed Scopus Google Scholar, L. S. R. S. J. Mater. Sci. 1996; Scopus Google Scholar, K. R. Y. Int. J. 1993; Google for of bone and these demonstrate that the for HAP in the presence of type I collagen was found to be more the of dentin H. B. J. Res. PubMed Scopus Google and more that of bone the high of the material formed in the presence of the organic The for the was found to be GPa, whereas for DMP1 type I collagen was This was on with the of for the of dentin the P. K. P. Calcif. Tissue Int. 2001; PubMed Scopus Google Scholar). in and with and HAP crystals an in the mineral used in biomineralization is the presence of an organic In this we that that such as bone and teeth can be synthesized in the presence of macromolecules such as type I collagen and dentin matrix protein 1 with properties. Type I collagen the in which the crystal and this might be for the crystal and proteins DMP1 are constituents of the organic of mineralized and are involved in the and growth of acidic macromolecules can and crystal polymorphs by their and the the phase. from this is that both type I collagen and DMP1 were required for the synthesis of HAP crystals with high Type I collagen by does not to nucleate we have that DMP1 and collagen matrix be an in the biomineralization process in matrix-mediated (19He G. Dahl T. Veis A. George A. Nat. Mater. 2003; 2: 552-558Crossref PubMed Scopus (455) Google Scholar). the in DMP1 that was for HAP two recombinant residues as NDMP1, and as CDMP1, were and used in in vitro from the that the was for the nucleation modified native residues also HAP nucleation and It that the residues present at the C-terminal of DMP1 are in a that the of the calcium phosphate model in by using by the of the of DMP1 as an aspartic domain and the as a glutamic and domain L. M. P. K. A. Res. PubMed Scopus Google Scholar). the glutamic acid and residues might be for HAP the formation of the amorphous of the into more ordered structures by matrix the of bone is believed to in two acid found in the N-terminal of the J. Goldberg H.A. J. Biol. Chem. 2003; Full Text Full Text PDF PubMed Scopus Google Scholar). has also been to the structure HAP and the the nucleation process H. Liu X.-Y. G. Y. J. Biol. Chem. 2005; Full Text Full Text PDF PubMed Scopus (63) Google Scholar). also that the mineralized matrix might be assembled an amorphous precursor phase. in the present we that the acid at the of DMP1 can the amorphous phase. The high by the aspartic acid residues at the of DMP1 can calcium ions formation and of the amorphous The of amorphous the growth phase is in biomineralization because transient amorphous minerals an in many It is well that amorphous can be into amorphous calcium phosphate is to have a a of crystalline calcium of has that the of the is often controlled of or amorphous Y. T. E. Weiner S. Addadi L. Science. 2004; PubMed Scopus Google Scholar). of amorphous phase to crystalline phase is in a controlled by have that via the of amorphous calcium Y. T. E. Weiner S. Addadi L. Science. 2004; PubMed Scopus Google Scholar). It is also that amorphous calcium a in and in phosphate in is as ACP, and is that to and its transformation to HAP Science. 2004; PubMed Scopus Google Scholar). matrix proteins are for the transformation of amorphous calcium phosphate to crystalline hydroxyapatite as well as the phase matrix the nucleation and growth process to composite bone and dentin with mechanical properties.