# Factorization system

In mathematics, it can be shown that every function can be written as the composite of a surjective function followed by an injective function. Factorization systems are a generalization of this situation in category theory.

Definition

A factorization system (E, M) for a category C consists of two classes of morphisms E and M of C such that:
E and M both contain all isomorphisms of C and are closed under composition.
Every morphism f of C can be factored as  for some morphisms  and .
The factorization is functorial: if  and  are two morphisms such that  for some morphisms  and , then there exists a unique morphism  making the following diagram commute:

Remark:  is a morphism from  to  in the arrow category.

Orthogonality 

Two morphisms  and  are said to be orthogonal, denoted , if for every pair of morphisms  and  such that  there is a unique morphism  such that the diagram

commutes. This notion can be extended to define the orthogonals of sets of morphisms by

 and 

Since in a factorization system  contains all the isomorphisms, the condition (3) of the definition is equivalent to
(3')  and 

Proof: In the previous diagram (3), take  (identity on the appropriate object) and .

Equivalent definition 
The pair  of classes of morphisms of C is a factorization system if and only if it satisfies the following conditions:

Every morphism f of C can be factored as  with  and 
 and

Weak factorization systems 
Suppose e and m are two morphisms in a category C. Then e has the left lifting property with respect to m (respectively m has the right lifting property with respect to e) when for every pair of morphisms u and v such that ve = mu there is a morphism w such that the following diagram commutes. The difference with orthogonality is that w is not necessarily unique.

A weak factorization system (E, M) for a category C consists of two classes of morphisms E and M of C such that:
The class E is exactly the class of morphisms having the left lifting property with respect to each morphism in M.
The class M is exactly the class of morphisms having the right lifting property with respect to each morphism in E.
Every morphism f of C can be factored as  for some morphisms  and .
This notion leads to a succinct definition of model categories: a model category is a pair consisting of a category C and classes of (so-called) weak equivalences W, fibrations F and cofibrations C so that

 C  has all limits and colimits,

  is a weak factorization system, and

  is a weak factorization system.

A model category is a complete and cocomplete category equipped with a model structure. A map is called a trivial fibration if it belongs to  and it is called a trivial cofibration if it belongs to  An object  is called fibrant if the morphism  to the terminal object is a fibration, and it is called cofibrant if the morphism  from the initial object is a cofibration.

References

External links

 

Category theory