# Silverwing (series)

The Silverwing Book Series is a series of novels by Canadian writer Kenneth Oppel about the adventures of a young bat. All four books, published between 1997 and 2007, are commonly assigned in the curriculum of upper elementary and middle school grades in Canada, and in some parts of the United States.

Summary

Prologue: The Great War
The great war between the birds and the beasts happened approximately 65 million years after the extinction of the dinosaurs for dominance over the land and sky. The bats, however, seeing themselves as neither birds nor beasts, remained neutral throughout the conflict. Finally a compromise was reached; the birds would control the sky, while the beasts would claim the land. However, because the bats refused to take sides, they were banished from being allowed to fly during the day—not even allowed to so much as look at the sun—ever again; only emerging at night. The war is based on Aesop's Fables called "The Birds, the Beasts and the Bat."

Sun Freedom (Silverwing and Sunwing) 
As Shade Silverwing looks at the sun, the owls destroy Tree Haven. While the Silverwing bats are migrating to Hibernaculum, he gets swept to sea. After Shade meets Marina Brightwing on an island, they head to the city. They encounter many other characters such as Zephyr, a bat who can see through the past and future, the cannibals Goth and Throbb, the rat kings Romulus and Remus, and humans who attempt to capture or kill them. Shade stays with Marina and finds his colony at Hibernaculum. After hibernating for two days,  some members of the colony go on a journey to find Cassiel, who disappeared after finding the truth about the humans. When they find a building called "paradise" with bats living in it, the colony finds out that Cassiel is absent.  While the other bats make themselves at home, Shade and Marina escape. After being separated, Shade ends up in the jungle, teams up with Orestes and finds out that sacrifices were being made at the Vampyrum Spectrum pyramid in order to banish the sun, and that Cassiel will also be a sacrifice. After Shade and Marina free the bats, owls and  rats in order to defeat Goth, the owls permit the bats to look at the sun, while Marina and Shade become mates.

Underworld (Firewing) 
Years later while Shade returns to Tree Haven for the first time, his son Griffin falls to the underground after accidentally dropping a fiery stick on his friend Luna. Finding out that dead bats live here forgetting that they died, he finds multiple bats with a strange glow. In the underworld, Cama Zotz orders the revived Goth to hunt down Griffin. After  Frieda gives the sound map to Griffin, he and Luna attempt to escape from the underworld, and  are helped by other dead bats that know each other. Goth kills Griffin, but Shade gives up his life for Griffin and Luna, who return to the upper world.

Main characters
Shade: A silver-haired bat who is teased about his lack of size and strength. He learns about Cassiel from the colony. He is naïve to the dangerous world around him, where owls rule the skies and he dares look at the sun - which in their world is forbidden - without much idea about the consequences. This starts off a chain of events, which test both his loyalty and strength to the fellow bats. He is the main protagonist of the series who saves his colony more than once and slowly rises in the ranks to become the respected Silverwing he always wanted to be. In 'Firewing', he is a father and appears briefly in the main plot.
Marina Brightwing: An Eastern red bat and Shade's closest friend who is one year older than him. After being banded, she was banished from her colony and went to live on an island. In Silverwing after meeting Shade at the island, she escorts him to reunite with his colony. Goth tore off Marina's band. In Sunwing, Shade and Marina become mates. In Firewing, Marina's role is much more minor compared to the other two books in the series; she briefly appears in the beginning and is only mentioned in the ending. This was probably to give Griffin, their son, more character growth and development.
Goth: A cannibal bat and prince of the Vampyrum spectrum who is deceptive and cunning. He and Throbb were taken from South America to the city. His carnivorous nature makes him eat many kinds of animals, including birds, turning the owls against bats. In the first book, Goth and Throbb are captured by scientists. They escape, meet Shade and Marina, and plot to follow them to Hibernaculum, where they could kill the entire colony. In the end, Goth is injured by lightning. The demon-god Cama Zotz heals Goth and makes him King of the Vampyrum Spectrum, but Goth was killed when the high priest Voxzaco dropped a powerful explosive device on the temple in an attempt to sacrifice everyone to resurrect Cama Zotz in the Underworld. In Firewing, he attempts to take Griffin's life as his own and give Shade's life to Zotz. However, he failed, but was reborn and went to the Upperworld to restart Zotz's worship.
Griffin: Shade and Marina's son, and a Silverwing and Brightwing hybrid. He is notable for being a worrywart and having a way with words. At the end of Firewing he feels he has become a hero like Shade. Griffin and Luna are nearly killed by Goth, but Shade gives his life for the two so that they could return home to the upper world.
Luna: A female Silverwing newborn and Griffin's best friend. While the other Silverwing newborns see Griffin as boring and somewhat annoying, she sees his neurotic and worry-wart antics as amusing. Luna created "the Owl Game",  which involves landing as close to an owl as possible, which Griffin dislikes. Later, Luna, Griffin and a few Silverwing newborns see and investigate a fire in the forest. They discover humans near the campfire, and Griffin steals some fire from the humans, but accidentally drops it on Luna, who suffers fatal burns as a result.

Secondary characters

Silverwings
The Northern Bats have an Elder hierarchy, with one being elected high elder. Silverwings are based on the Silver-Haired Bat.

Ariel: Shade's mother who raises Shade after Cassiel left. At the end of Sunwing, she is elected elder.
Cassiel: Shade's father, who left the colony and see the sun. Shade notices his father is alive when Zephyr told him, finally Shade finds him in the abandoned Mayan temple being used by the Vampyrum Spectrum for sacrifices.
Mercury: A male; the only one who stays with the females and their young outside of winter.  He acts as a messenger amongst the Silverwings, befitting his namesake.
Chinook: Shade's best friend. At the end of Sunwing he and Shade become friends and brothers because his parents died and he was adopted by Ariel and Cassiel at Shade's request (though Shade kept this a secret from Chinook, believing his once-rival would never let him hear the end of it). Chinook is frequently scared, like his step-nephew Griffin, but is brave when he needs to be, and he has good survival instincts. He was once very fond of dumping snow on Shade's head, though this may have just been an attempt to gain attention from Shade and Marina.
Plato and Isis: Chinook's parents who travel with the other Silverwings to the human building at the beginning of Sunwing. They perished in the firestorm in the jungle.
Jarod, Osric, Yara, Rasha and Penumbra: Newborns; friends and admirers of Chinook.
Frieda: An elder of the Silverwing colony who is banded. She is the oldest bat in the colony, thus the wisest and helps Shade, even though he did something foolish. At the end of Sunwing, she dies at Bridge City. In the Underworld, she meets Griffin, telling him where to find the tree of life, a possible means of escape for him. She commends Griffin's desire to take Luna with him despite the fact that he knows she may slow him down.
Bathsheba: A selfish elder of the colony, who scolds Shade for breaking the law and mistrusts the animals. In the television series, Bathsheba betrays them.
Lucretia: One of the female elders who becomes a chief elder in Firewing.
Aurora: One of the female elders.
Icarus: A male; he is optimistic about what the bands foretell.
Ishmael: A Silverwing captured by the Vampyrum for the ritual. He escaped, but his brother and others did not. While helping rescue Chinook and the other captives, Ishmael knocked his brother off of the Stone and was killed seconds later by Voxzaco on the sacrificial stone.

Vampyrum Spectrum
The Vampyrum Spectrum has a monarchy. They are carnivores and eat just about anything smaller than them, including other bats. They worship the Mayan bat god Cama Zotz. Vampyrum spectrum is the Latin name of the Spectral Bat.

Throbb: Goth's fellow prisoner in the first book, who lacks courage and is forced to do his bidding. He is killed by a thunderstorm. His ghost serves Cama Zotz in the Underworld by aiding in an attempt to tunnel through to the world of the living.
Voxzaco: A High Priest talking to Cama Zotz by eating strange, possibly hallucinog