# The Tomb (1986 film)

The Tomb is a 1986 American supernatural horror film directed by Fred Olen Ray and starring Michelle Bauer, Richard Alan Hench, David Pearson and Susan Stokey. Despite being respectively given first and second billing, Cameron Mitchell only has a supporting role, and John Carradine features in single scene. Sybil Danning also only appears in the prologue, despite being prominently shown on the poster. The plot concerns an ancient Egyptian vampire who kills those in possession of artefacts stolen from her and taken to the United States by grave robbers.

Plot synopsis
Dr. Howard Phillips robs tombs for a living, selling artifacts he steals from an unmarked tomb in Egypt. His desecration of a tomb displeases an immortal woman, who is out for revenge for the theft.

Cast
Cameron Mitchell as Dr. Howard Phillips
John Carradine as Mr. Andoheb
Sybil Danning as Jade
Michelle Bauer as Nefratis 
Kitten Natividad as Stripper
Michael Sonye as Waiter

Production
The film's basic idea came to Fred Olen Ray when he learned from an insider at New World Pictures that the company was considering an adaptation of F. Paul Wilson's 1984 novel The Tomb. The director reasoned that if he managed to get a homonymous film into production before they made their own, his competitors might give him an easy payday to rename it and keep the title for themselves (New World ultimately passed on the adaptation).

Towards the end of 1985, a friend of Ray's opened to him about a problem. He had rented some set panels for a student film he was making at Columbia University, but the school had granted him restrictive time slots at their in-house film studio. The set, an Indiana Jones-inspired tomb, had been built by production designer Alan Jones and carpenters from Cinebar on behalf of advertising agency Dancer Fitzgerald Sample. It had been commissioned for a pair of lavish Wrangler Jeans TV commercials, together budgeted at $1 million.

Ray realized the production value he could get out of it, and offered his friend to rent a studio for two full days, on the condition that he could use the set during both nights to make a sizzle reel for a film of his own. The director quickly commissioned two sections of the screenplay, both taking place inside the tomb and bookending the central story arc. He then crammed the filming of their combined twenty to thirty pages into those two nights. Although a rumor asserts that The Tomb was loosely based on Bram Stoker's 1903 novel The Jewel of Seven Stars, this is not mentioned on the film's poster, nor in the credits or in Ray's 1991 book where its genesis is discussed. Several characters, however, bear names that appear in classic installments of Universal Pictures' Mummy franchise.

Ray showed the resulting footage to producer Richard Kaye, who made a pitch to Trans World Entertainment. The company accepted to finance the rest of the picture for a modest $185,000. The second sessions took thirteen days to film. The land around Iverson Ranch, California, stood in for the Egyptian desert. The Tomb was Ray's first project for Trans World, who had previously bought select international distribution rights to his film Biohazard from 21st Century Films.

While Ray found Trans World to be a step up from 21st Century regarding business dealings, it was also his first experience with a vertical production structure. Ray's cut featured more comedic elements, including seven musical numbers spread throughout the film, as well as nudity and violence. His bosses had most of them edited out from their final cut to make it closer to a classic adventure film. Although Trans World was initially lukewarm about Ray's approach, the film's commercial success prompted them to reconnect one year later, and offer him a two-picture deal, consisting of Commando Squad and a sequel to Creature (which became Deep Space).

The film marked Michelle Bauer's first lead role, and her first work with Fred Olen Ray, to whom she was introduced by a mutual acquaintance, producer Paul Hertzberg. She was chosen over one of Ray's established stars, who would have had to cover her blonde hair with a wig for the role. It was the first of several Ray films in which John Carradine appears, although Ray had worked with Carradine in a more minor capacity on Ken Wiederhorn's Shock Waves.

Release
The Tomb was released by Trans World in the U.S on October 2, 1984. It was apparently delayed from an earlier date of September 22, for which some advertising material was circulated. The film was a commercial success, moving between 29,000 and 40,000 tapes depending on recollections, a rare number at the time for a direct-to-video film. According to Ray, the tape quickly received a Gold certification from one of the industry's sanctioning bodies. The domestic release was preceded by a U.K. bow in the third week of May 1986 by Frontier, a short-lived label of Guild Home Video.

Reception
Jim Craddock's VideoHound rated The Tomb a two on a scale of zero to four. Ballantine Books' Video Movie Guide rated it a two on a scale of one to five, and called it a "[t]ypical high-energy and low-budget Fred Olen Ray production, with the veteran stars on hand for B-movie marquee value, while a largely unknown young cast handles the strenuous mayhem. Richard Scheib of Moria Reviews rated the film a one on a scale of zero to five, calling it "a routine mummy revived film", "dully directed and uninteresting on almost all levels."

References

External links

 
 
  
 

1986 horror films
1986 films
1980s supernatural horror films
American supernatural horror films
Films based on Irish novels
Films based on horror novels
Films directed by Fred Olen Ray
Films based on works by Bram Stoker
Mummy films
1980s English-language films
1980s American films
Films about immortality