# Pablo Lenci

Pablo Javier Lenci is a former Argentine football defender. He was born on December 27, 1972, in the city of San Nicolás de los Arroyos in the Buenos Aires Province of Argentina. He played for most of his career in the Liga Chilena de Fútbol: Primera División.

Club career
Lenci started his career at Newell's Old Boys of Rosario in the Primera Division Argentina in 1991. In 1992, he was part of the squad that won the Clausura tournament.

In 1993, he moved to Chile to play for Coquimbo Unido, he also played for Deportes Iquique and Santiago Morning before moving to Mexico for a brief spell with Correcaminos UAT in 2001.

On his return to Chilean football  he joined Universidad Católica, where he won the second major title of his career; the Primera División Apertura of 2002.

In 2003, he left UC for brief spells with Audax Italiano, Palestino and Santiago Wanderers where he retired in 2005.

Coaching career
Lenci started his coaching career in 2008, when he became the assistant coach of Claudio Borghi at Independiente. He left the club with Borghi in the beginning of October 2008. He followed Borghi to Argentinos Juniors (2009-2010) and a brief stint at Boca Juniors (2010).

Later when Borghi was hired to be a coach for the Chile national team, Lenci decided to stay in Argentina. Here he was contacted by Martín Palermo, who had recently retired as a professional footballer and later began his coaching career at Godoy Cruz on 28 November 2012, with Lenci as his assistant. They left the club at the end of 2013. On 16 April 2014, he followed Palermo to Arsenal de Sarandí, still as his assistant. They left the club exactly one year later in April 2015.

In 2015, he worked as assistant of Arturo Norambuena in Cobresal. At the end of 2016, on 1 November, Lenci joined Chilean club Universidad de Concepción as an assistant coach of Francisco Bozán. However, Lenci left his position at the club in the beginning of January 2019. A few days later, his former collaborator, Martín Palermo, once again as his assistant coach, this time at Mexican club Pachuca. They lasted until the end of 2019.

In February 2020, Lenci once again joined Francisco Bozán's coaching staff at Deportes La Serena as an assistant coach. After Bozán was fired, Lenci stayed at the club, still as an assistant coach, however, under the new manager Miguel Ponce.

Honours
Newell's Old Boys
 Argentine Primera División (1): 1992 Apertura

Universidad Católica
 Primera División de Chile (1): 2002 Apertura

References

Exterbal links
 Pablo Lenci at MemoriaWanderers.cl 

1972 births
Living people
People from San Nicolás de los Arroyos
Footballers from Buenos Aires Province
Argentine men's footballers
Argentine expatriate men's footballers
Men's association football defenders
Newell's Old Boys footballers
Coquimbo Unido footballers
Deportes Iquique footballers
Santiago Morning footballers
Correcaminos UAT footballers
Club Deportivo Universidad Católica footballers
Audax Italiano footballers
Club Deportivo Palestino footballers
Santiago Wanderers footballers
Argentine Primera División players
Chilean Primera División players
Ascenso MX players
Argentine expatriate sportspeople in Chile
Argentine expatriate sportspeople in Mexico
Expatriate men's footballers in Chile
Expatriate men's footballers in Mexico
Argentine emigrants to Chile
Naturalized citizens of Chile
Doping cases in association football
Argentine football managers
Expatriate football managers in Chile
Expatriate football managers in Mexico