# History of the Dylan programming language

Dylan programming language history first introduces the history with a continuous text. The second section gives a timeline overview of the history and present several milestones and watersheds. The third section presents quotations related to the history of the Dylan programming language.

Introduction to the history 
Dylan was originally developed by Apple Cambridge, then a part of the Apple Advanced Technology Group (ATG). Its initial goal was to produce a new system programming application development programming language for the Apple Newton PDA, but soon it became clear that this would take too much time. Walter Smith developed NewtonScript for scripting and application development, and systems programming was done in the language C. Development continued on Dylan for the Macintosh. The group produced an early Technology Release of its Apple Dylan product, but the group was dismantled due to internal restructuring before they could finish any real usable products. 
According to Apple Confidential by Owen W. Linzmayer, the original code name for the Dylan project was Ralph, for Ralph Ellison, author of the novel Invisible Man, to reflect its status as a secret research project.

The initial killer application for Dylan was the Apple Newton PDA, but the initial implementation came too late for it. Also, the performance and size objectives were missed. So Dylan was retargeted toward a general computer programming audience. To compete in this market, it was decided to switch to infix notation.

Andrew Shalit (along with David A. Moon and Orca Starbuck) wrote the Dylan Reference Manual, which served as a basis for work at Harlequin (software company) and Carnegie Mellon University. When Apple Cambridge was closed, several members went to Harlequin, which produces a working compiler and development environment for Microsoft Windows. When Harlequin got bought and split, some of the developers founded Functional Objects. In 2003, the firm contributed its repository to the Dylan open source community. This repository was the foundation of the free and open-source software Dylan implementation Open Dylan.

In 2003, the Dylan community had already proven its engagement for Dylan. In summer 1998, the community took over the code from the Carnegie Mellon University (CMU) Dylan implementation named for the Gwydion project, and founded the open-source model project Gwydion Dylan. At that time, CMU had already stopped working at their Dylan implementation because Apple in its financial crisis could no longer sponsor the project. CMU thus shifted its research toward the mainstream and toward Java.

Today, Gwydion Dylan and Open Dylan are the only working Dylan compilers. While the first is still a Dylan-to-C compiler, Open Dylan produces native code for Intel processors. Open Dylan was designed to account for the Architecture Neutral Distribution Format (ANDF).

Timeline overview

History by (mostly) quotations

The roots of the programming language Dylan 
Dylan was created by the same group at Apple that was responsible for Macintosh Common Lisp. The first implementation had a Lisp-like syntax.

Dylan began with the acquisition of Coral Software, which became ATG East. Coral was marketing Macintosh Common Lisp, and Apple asked them to continue to support MCL and simultaneously develop a new dynamic language with all the programmer power and convenience of Lisp and Smalltalk but with the performance required for production applications
 Quoted from MacTech Vol 7 No. 1

In the late 1980s, Apple’s Advanced Technology Group (ATG) saddled themselves with the task of creating a new language, one that would combine the best qualities of dynamic languages like Smalltalk and Lisp, with those of static languages like C++. Recognizing that a language definition alone was insufficient to meet the challenges of developing the next ever-more complex generation of software, ATG further committed the Dylan team (now a part of the Developer Products Group) to developing an attendant development environment that would enable the rapid prototyping and construction of real-world applications
 Quoted from MacTech Vol 11 No. 8 

The acknowledgments from the First Dylan Manual (1992) states:

Designing Dylan has been a work of many hands. 
The primary contributors to the language design were Glenn S. Burke, Robert Cassels, John Hotchkiss, Jeremy A. Jones, David A. Moon, Jeffrey Piazza, Andrew Shalit, Oliver Steele, and Gail Zacharias. 
Additional design work and oodles of helpful comments were provided by Jerome T. Coonen, James Grandy, Ike Nassi, Walter R. Smith, Steve Strassmann, and Larry Tesler. 
Many more people provided invaluable feedback during the design. Among these were Peter Alley, Kim Barrett, Alan Bawden, Ernie Beernink, Rasha Bozinovic, Steve Capps, Mikel Evins, Gregg Foster, Jed Harris, Alice K. Hartley, Alan Kay, Larry Kenyon, Matthew MacLaurin, John Meier, Richard Mlynarik, Peter Potrebic, David Singer, David C. Smith, Bill St. Clair, Andy Stadler, Joshua Susser, Michael Tibbott, Tom Vrhel, Bob Welland, and Derek White. 
Moral and logistical support were provided by Donna Auguste, Chrissy Boggs, James Joaquin, Rick LeFaivre, Becky Mulhearn, David Nagel, Mark Preece, Mary Reagan, Shane Robison, and Susan M. Whittemore. 
The Dylan project was directed by Ike Nassi. 
This manual was written by Andrew Shalit with contributions from Jeffrey Piazza and David Moon. 
The manual was designed by Scott Kim and Steve Strassmann. The typefaces are the Lucida family and Letter Gothic. The cover was designed by Scott Kim. 
The Dylan project was funded entirely by the Advanced Technology Group of Apple Computer.

The two non-Apple collaborators were CMU Gwydion and Harlequin.

"I think our general impression was that our influence at CMU was limited to being able to participate in meetings and email discussions where we could try to convince the Apple people to see things our way. There was actually a great deal of consensus about many issues, mainly because the designers were primarily from the Common Lisp community, and saw similar strengths and failings of Common Lisp."
Rob MacLachlan, former member of CMU's Dylan project Gwydion.

CMU still provide an information page about Gwydion.

The roots of changing the syntax from Lisp way to an infix one 
The developers at the Cambridge lab and CMU thought they'd get better reception from the C/C++ community out there if they changed the syntax to make it look more like these languages.

Rob MacLachlan, at Carnegie Mellon during the Dylan project, from comp.lang.dylan:

"In a way, the most remarkable realignment was the decision to ditch the Lisp syntax. This happened after Gwydion was participating in the design effort. We advocated the infix syntax and ditching the lisp/prefix syntax. As I recall, we didn't really expect anyone to listen, but that was exactly what happened. In that case, we may have shifted the balance of power internal to Apple on this issue."

Bruce Hoult replied:

"Which interestingly enough is the reverse of Lisp itself, where John McCarthy originally intended S- expressions to be just a temporary form until the real syntax was developed/implemented."

Oliver Steele in a ll1-discuss:

"Mike Kahl, who designed the infix syntax (and implemented the parser and indenter for it), was trying to make it look like Pascal.  At the time (1991?), that probably looked like a better bet than it does today in the world of languages that have mostly converged on the use of punctuation marks as punctuation.

 I had actually implemented a more C-like (that is, braces) syntax for Dylan, but dropped it when we hired Mike in order to work on the IDE."

End of Dylan as commercial product

Project death at Apple in 1995 
Raffael Cavallaro once provided some insights:

The Apple Dylan project died in early '95 (if memory serves - I was a seed site for Apple Dylan). The Dylan team were under a lot of pressure to get a working release out the door when two things sort of took them by surprise:

1. Apple started to become less profitable because of the Wintel juggernaut. With Apple no longer so profitable, the Apple suits started to look for research projects to axe. Those that didn't seem likely to ship a profitable product in the near future were at the top of the list. Apple Dylan at the time was still not ready for release - it compiled pretty slowly... especially compared to CodeWarrior C/C++, since it hadn't yet been optimized. Apple managers were talking about rewriting it in C++ to make it run faster (not realizing that Common Lisp can be optimized to run as quickly as C/C++).

2. Apple was making the transition to PowerPC, and Apple Dylan still only ran on 68k machines, and only compiled to 68k binaries. So, it was looking like it would be at least another year, maybe two, before there was a usable PowerPC product, so the project was cancelled.

Apple execs killed the Dylan project... because nobody could sh