# List of Ultimate Muscle characters

The following is a list of characters who appear in Yudetamago's manga and anime series Ultimate Muscle/Kinnikuman Nisei.

Prologue of a Legend~Hercules Factory Arc

Mantaro Kinniku (キン肉万太郎 Kinniku Mantarō) / Mantaro Kinnikuman/Mantaro Muscle (Kid Muscle) 
 Voiced by: Masaya Onosaka/Marc Thompson (US). Homeland: Planet Kinniku, Age: 14 (Choujin Olympics: 15, Ultimate Tag: 16), Height: 176cm/5'9", Weight: 83kg/189lbs., Chojin Power: 930,000. The main character of the story. He is the 59th prince of Planet Muscle (Planet Kinniku) and son the first Kinnikuman, Suguru Muscle and Belinda/Bibinba. Raised during times of peace, he is a spoiled, cowardly, lazy teenager, much like his father was at the beginning of the first series except with more emphasis on cowardice and less on clumsiness. He usually start matches off in a cowardly state, only managing to get a few good moves in due to luck. However, when his friends are in trouble or his opponent is being dishonorable, he manages to reach the state of Kajiba no Kuso Djikara (Burning Inner Strength). When this happens, the Niku-Mark appears on his forehead and his strength, stamina, and technique increase many fold. Because Suguru had his records annulled years ago, Mantaro never knew how great a hero his father really was until he met Alexandria Meat. Mantaro was named after Ultraman Taro (Ultraman + Taro/Kinniku + Mantaro). Mantaro's favorite wrestling move is his father's signature move, the Kinniku Buster (sometimes called the Butt Buster in the English dub, though it actually translates to Muscle Buster) which he won much of his wrestling matches with until he gains his own signature move, Muscle Millennium. Mantaro is rather lecherous and lusts after many girls, but his main love interest is Roxanne. His favorite food is galbi bowl (Beef and Rice), which he often sings about.

In the Japanese version of the anime, Mantaro has a habit of adding  at the end of certain words and sentences in place of the standard . For example, , a common Japanese phrase said before eating, becomes .

Terry the Kid (テリー・ザ・キッド Te-ri Za Kiddo) / Terry "The Grand" Kenyon  
 Voiced by: Toshiyuki Morikawa, Ai Nonaka (young)/Frank Frankson (US). Height: 180cm/5'10", Weight: 86kg/191.1lbs, Choujin Power: 1,050,000. Terry is the son of the Texas wrestler Legend, Terryman and Natsuko Shōno, a Japanese reporter. Kid always believed that Suguru Muscle stole the fame from his father, and held a grudge against the Muscles because of it, saying that he will come in first place to Mantaro Muscle and prove that his family is better. He even hated his father because of all this, and always said that he is nothing like him. After he learns about the power of friendship, he changes his ways and becomes best friends with Mantaro, but he still works independently now and then. Kid has a soft spot for many things, and is always willing to support his team. He even gave up the Chojin Olympics to save a little boy from drowning. Even though his family's moves aren't much of a powerhouse as others, he is still able to do critical damage on his opponent by using technical wrestling and submission holds. Oddly whilst he always wanted to differ himself from his father, he has not once tried utilizing the improved versions of his family's traditional techniques thought up by Scarface for his future matches.

Like Terryman, he will sometimes refer to others as  and himself in the first person as . As his father was frequently referred to as  in the original series, Terry the Kid is usually referred to as  in order to differentiate the two of them.

Seiuchin (セイウチン Seiuchin) / Wally Tusket 
 Voiced by: Takumi Yamazaki (Ginzō Matsuo in first movie)/Madeline Blaustein (US). Height: 173cm/5'7/", Weight: 145kg/322.2lbs, Choujin Power: 910,000. A big Irish walrus (seiuchi is Japanese for walrus). A walrus Chojin, Wally is the friendlier and easygoing member of the New Generation. He greatly admires Mantaro Muscle, and in many ways is a lot like him, the two of them always being hungry and seen eating food all the time.  Wally cares greatly for his family, who often come to watch his matches. He is the Number 2 student of the Hercules Factory First Years and has a lot of heart and spirit, but his kind and gentle personality can lead to weaknesses in the ring. He is originally assigned to defend Hokkaido, an area in Japan best fitted for Wally's environment. In the current story arc, Wally has grown sick of Mantaro's numerous thoughtless remarks about him and leaves the Seigi Chojin side to form the Hell Expansions with Neptuneman. Neptuneman awakens Wally's ferocious animal instinct, transforming him into a blood thirsty beast. Ever since, Wally has appeared as an enemy of Mantaro and the others.

In the Japanese version, Seiuchin refers to himself in the first person as  instead of the more common . He refers to Mantaro as , a term of respect for (in this case) someone considered a brother.

Gazelleman (ガゼルマン Gazeruman) / Dik-Dik Van-Dik 
 Voiced by: Yasunori Masutani/Eric Stuart (US). Height: 193cm/6'4", Weight: 136kg/302.2lbs, Chojin Power: 1,000,000. A Tanzanian gazelle-type wrestler. Dik-Dik started out as being ranked #1 in the Hercules Factory Graduates, being quite skilled in battle and very handsome. He was originally assigned to protect Tokyo, Japan with Mantaro Muscle. Though being the highest graduate, Dik-Dik is known for losing pretty much all of his battles miserably against any opponent, and eventually becomes comedy relief who chooses not to always support Mantaro, who he usually sees as a lazy. His role is more prominent in the anime than the original manga, where he had more appearances along with other supporting characters who also appear more so in the anime. Though Dik-Dik has made his role somewhat of a loser after a while, he does have his spotlights throughout the series, being there for his teammates and giving support in their fights. His known trademark technique is Antler Fist, an attack where he places a glove with antlers on them onto his right fist and leaps into the air, sending a powerful fist into his opponent plus his ultimate move the savannah heat. His English name is a reference to the dik-dik and to the actor Dick Van Dyke.

Gorgeousman (ゴージャスマン Gōjasu Man)  
 Voiced by: Mahito Ohba. A native of Houston, Texas.  Height: 190cm, Weight: 185kg, Choujin Power: 870,000.  Gorgeousman was heavily censored by 4Kids Entertainment due to his costume's resemblance to a giant Confederate States of America flag. In the original manga version of Nisei, when the Legends first announce the Hercules Factory graduates, Mantaro steals Gorgeousman's costume and wears it, saying that Gorgeousman's costume is much cooler than his. An almost nude Gorgeousman appears shortly after, forcing Mantaro to return his clothing. His forearms were horribly injured by Check Mate, but he recovered. He was featured briefly in the first Nise movie, but lost in an off-screen fight against The Cyborg. Trademark Technique:Patriot Shooter Press.  He first appears as a fan submission on the cover art for chapter 374 of the original Kinnikuman.

The Adams (ジ・アダムス Ji Adamusu) / Ski Adams  
 Voiced by: Kenji Nomura/ (US).  Height: 184cm/6'0/", Weight: 115kg/253lbs, Choujin Power: 850,000.  A UFO themed Chojin from California. He is named after George Adamski. Ranked Number Four in the Hercules Factory. He was originally assigned to the Tohoku region. Early in the manga version, The Adams served a larger role as a supportive character for Mantaro, and remained faithful to the young prince. He later joins Mantaro, the Kid, Gazelle, and Seiu in their battle against Kevin Mask and his team. After the DMP was defeated, he returns to his post and joins the other second generations to train at the Ryogoku National Martial Arts Stadium, where he spars with Apollonman. He later makes an appearance to witness HF Second Year Replacement matches. He was also featured briefly in the first Nisei movie, during the Seigi Chojin fan appreciation day, where he is seen giving fans his autograph. Later on he helps out in the fight against The Cyborg, but is easily defeated.
Trademark Technique: UFO Clutch.  He first appears as a fan submission on the cover art for chapter 374 of the original Kinnikuman.

Apollonman (アポロンマン Aporonman) / Apollo (Mercury)  
 Voiced by: Yūki Satō. Height: 185cm/6', Weight: 120kg/264lbs, Choujin Power: 870,000.  A Greek Chojin obviously inspired by the god Apollo. Assigned to the Kantō region. Early in the manga version, he serves a larger role as a supportive character for Mantaro. After the defeat of the DMP, Apollo returns to Hercules with The Adams and Gorgeousman to continue training. He was featured briefly in the first Nisei movie, where he is signing autographs during a fan appreciation day. He later joins the other Seigi Chojins to fight The Cyborg, but is easily taken down. Trademark Techniques:Pancrush.  He first appe