# Inheritance tax

International tax law distinguishes between an estate tax and an inheritance tax. An inheritance tax is a tax paid by a person who inherits money or property of a person who has died, whereas an estate tax is a levy on the estate (money and property) of a person who has died. However, this distinction is not always observed; for example, the UK's "inheritance tax" is a tax on the assets of the deceased, and strictly speaking is therefore an estate tax.

For historical reasons, the term death duty is still used colloquially (though not legally) in the UK and some Commonwealth countries. For political, statutory and other reasons, the term death tax is sometimes used to refer to estate tax in the United States.

History
There was a steep increase in the number of countries that implemented inheritance taxes throughout the 19th and early 20th century. From 1960 onwards, inheritance taxes declined in prevalence as numerous countries repealed theirs.

Varieties of inheritance and estate taxes
 Belgium, droits de succession or erfbelasting (Inheritance tax). Collected at the federal level but distributed to the regional level.In the 2018 huge set of reforms, considering inheritance taxes, was accepted on the federal level and thus many changes on the regional level were also made. A family home is since 2018 an exception from a tax in all regions if it is bequeathed to a direct-line family member, spouse, or cohabitant.
 Bermuda: stamp duty
 Brazil: Imposto sobre Transmissão "Causa Mortis" e Doação de Quaisquer Bens ou Direitos (Tax on Causa Mortis Transmission and as Donation of any Property and Rights). Collected at the state level. Brazilian States can charge progressive rates for the ITCMD, increasing the rate according to the amount donated or inherited, however, the Brazilian Senate limited the maximum rate to 8%.
 Colombia: There is no inheritance tax in Colombia, however the inheritance is considered as extraordinary income, therefore it is subject of capital gains tax here.
 Denmark: Boafgift (estate duty). Collected at state level. Different rates depending on the relation to the deceased. Spouse: 0%. Children: 15%. Other relatives: 15% of the estate sum + additional 25% of the individual sum. The estate duty is calculated on the sum of the estate after deducting a free allowance on the estate (289,000 DKK in 2018).
 Finland: perintövero (Finnish) or arvsskatt (Swedish) (Inheritance tax) is a state tax. Inheritance to the close family is tax free up to the worth of €20,000, and increasing from there via several steps (for instance, being 13% for €60,000  - €200,000 ) to the maximum of 19% that must be paid for the portion of the inheritance that exceeds one million euros. Taxation is more severe in case of remote relatives or those with no family connection at all (19-33%).
 France: droits de succession (Inheritance tax). Inheritance to the close family is tax free up to the worth of €100,000, and increasing from there via several steps to the maximum of 45% that must be paid for the portion of the inheritance that exceeds 1.8 million euros. Taxation is more severe in case of remote relatives or those with no family connection at all (55-60%).
 Germany: Erbschaftsteuer (Inheritance tax). Smaller bequests are exempt, i.e€., 20,000  - €500,000  depending on the family relation between the deceased and the beneficiary. Bequests larger than these values are taxed from 7% to 50%, depending on the family relationship between the deceased and the beneficiary and the size of the taxable amount.
 Ghana: Inheritance tax on intangible assets
 Greece: The Inheritance tax in Greece is different for different groups based on the degree of relationship with the deceased. Heirs are divided into 3 groups and within each group there are also separate rates for various values of the inherited property. Category A includes the spouse, children, grandchildren and parents and the rate is between 0 and 10%. For Category B, including great-grandchildren, grandparents and great-grandparents, siblings etc., it is from 0 to 20% and for the rest in the Category C it is from 0 (for very low inheritance) to 40%.
 Iceland: In Iceland the inheritance tax is 10%. The first ISK 5,757,759 are tax free.
 Iraq: The taxation of inheritance in Iraq is dependent on the value of the property inherited. There are different 5 tax rates. To the value of IQD 20 million the inheritance is tax free. From IQD 20 million to IQD 30 million the rate is 3%, from IQD 30 million to IQD 60 million it is 4%, from IQD 60 million to IQD 90 million 5% and the highest is for inheritance over IQD 90 million 6%.
 Ireland: Inheritance tax (Cáin Oidhreachta) A usual tax rate in Ireland is 33% (2022), however there are some exceptions in form of thresholds. The threshold is different for different groups of recipients of inheritance, depending on the relationship to decedent.  In Group A there are children, or grandchildren (in case children are no longer alive) or parents, the threshold for zero tax rate is €335, 000. For Group B, which includes siblings, nieces and nephews and other linear ancestors, the threshold for tax free inheritance is €32,500 and for the last Group C of everyone else it is €16, 250. There are also some other exceptions.
 Italy: tassa di successione (Inheritance tax). Abolished in 2001 and reestablished in 2006. 1,000,000  exemption on a bequest to a spouse or child, and a maximum rate of 8%.
 Japan: sōzokuzei 相続税 (Inheritance tax) paid as a national tax (between 10 and 55% after an exemption of ¥30 million + ¥6 million per heir is deducted from the estate) Japan has the highest inheritance tax rate in the world.
 Korea: sangsoksae (inheritance tax) paid as a national tax (between 10 and 50% taxes on inheritance when deceased, and gift taxes are also taxable on property and/or stock received by heir or child). After Samsung Group titan Lee Kun Hee chairman's death in year 2020, his heirs are facing a $10 billion inheritance tax bill. (50% taxable amount)
 Latvia: inheritance tax (mantojuma nodoklis) for 2 people if 1) they are not related: 7.5% and additional 7.5% if it is an estate; 2) if they are related and they lived together: 0.25% and additional 0.25% if estate; 3) if they are related and they did not live together: 0.5% and additional 0.5% if estate
 Luxembourg: There is an inheritance tax levied. The law distinguishes between two types of inheritance collected by two groups on heirs. First is the legal part "collected by the heir according to their capacity". This means what proportion should the heir receive given by the relationship to the decedent. Second is the extra-legal part "collected by the heirs as a result of a will, donation, etc.". This means something more than the legal part, given by some document. Generally, rates for extra-legal part are higher. For both parts rate is 0% between spouses and all rates depend on the relationship to the decedent.
 Netherlands: Successierecht (Inheritance tax) NB. as per 1 January 2010 Successierecht has been abolished for the erfbelasting regime, and is replaced with Erfbelasting with rates from 10% to 40% for brackets by amounts and separation. Sizeable exemptions are given based on separation. As an example, in 2019, these exemptions roughly equalled EUR 651k for partners, EUR 20k for children, EUR 2k for grandchildren and 40k for parents.
 Poland: inheritance and gift tax (state tax) applies to the estate and is regulated by the Act on Inheritance and Donation Tax (ustawa o podatku od spadków i darowizn). Tax rates vary from 3% to 20% depending on the value of the inherited estate and relationship with between the deceased and the beneficiary. Close family members can benefit from the inheritance tax exemption provided that the tax office is notified about the inheritance acquisition within a statutory deadline.
 Slovenia: In Slovenia the tax rate is dependent on the amount of inheritance and also on the connection to the decedent. It ranges from 0 to 40%.
 Switzerland has no national inheritance tax. Some cantons impose estate taxes or inheritance taxes.
 Spain: Impuesto sobre Sucesiones (Inheritance Tax). The amendment of Spanish law has been put into practice, in compliance with the European Court ruling of September 3 of last year, and on December 31, 2014, Order HAP/2488/2014, of December 29, was published in the Official State Bulletin, which approves the Inheritance and Gift Tax self-assessment forms 650, 651, and establishes the place, form and term for its submission.
 Thailand: In Thailand, the government introduced inheritance tax starting on 1 January 2016. It only applies to estate of more than 100 million baht.
 Tunisia: In Tunisia there is so called registration fees applied also on inheritance. There are four rates of the fee depending on the kinship with the decedent. The lowest rate is 2,5% of the inherited goods value applying for ancestors and descendants, then 5% rate for siblings, 25