# Ashley Davies

Ashley Davies is a fictional character from the television series South of Nowhere, a television series produced by Noggin LLC for its teen block, The N. Ashley is in a romantic relationship with the lead character, Spencer Carlin. She attended King High School before she got a $12.5 million inheritance, and is portrayed by actress Mandy Musgrave.

A rebellious narcissist who is at times known to refuse the conformity of labels such as straight or gay, the character has emerged as an icon among teenagers and young adults.

Background

Casting and characterization
Actress Mandy Musgrave had originally auditioned for the role of Spencer Carlin. Spencer would eventually become her onscreen love interest, portrayed by actress Gabrielle Christian. When describing her auditioning process, Musgrave explained the casting directors swapping the roles between her and her co-star. She found it "weird", but relayed their "immediate" chemistry. I had forgotten my sides and she knew all of her lines," she said, "and we were going up for the same character — Spencer then was known as 'Zooey'. We went in there and I thought 'Crap, this girl is amazing! She so has the part, I don't know my lines and I'm not prepared.'" Musgrave continued, "She knew her lines, so she gave me her sides. But then when they started matching us up, they put me up for the character of Ashley. I thought, 'I'm so unprofessional, this girl has the part. Why am I here?' But they kept bringing us in together and loving our chemistry and we became lovers at first sight!"

Ashley's background was revealed to show her as the rich, detached daughter of '80s rock royalty. It is Ashley who broadens Spencer's horizon, opening her up to a grittier world, her sexuality and her first love.

At first characterized as "the girl who is always the first to build walls" and deflect emotion with sarcasm, Ashley matures and softens through being with Spencer as their relationship grows. Her bad girl aspect are left intact, along with the reality that at any moment she can "break the heart" of the person closest to her.

In addition, Ashley is written to know who she is, who she likes and what she wants. There is nothing artificial or contrived about her presence. Far from a plot device or stereotype, she exudes confidence around everyone, except for when she is alone with Spencer. Spencer's innocence continually manages to intrigue Ashley, allowing her to be vulnerable and insecure. This bares Ashley's emotions in a real and heartfelt way to let Spencer in, and is what makes their relationship as new to Ashley as it becomes to Spencer, later playing a central role in strengthening their bond.

Sexual orientation
Ashley's sexual orientation is a complex topic set by the writers of the series. While sources that define the character's sexual orientation as gay are present, AskMen.com, for one, defines it as bisexual. The character herself when asked, replied: "I'm not into labels." Yet, she is able to unselfconsciously use words like "gay" and "lesbian" to assert her sexuality, as well as accept these as labels for herself.

Musgrave, when giving insight into the character's sexual identity, stated, "I think that Ashley has always [been] known for being unpredictable. One of her famous lines is, 'I'm not into labels.' She doesn't have one, so she's not gay, she's not straight." Musgrave added, "But whoever she sees love in, she falls for that person. She's not going for a physical package; she's going for the inner characteristics. I think that's important, and I wish that more humans could be like that. I think that she's not worried about finding her sexual identity; it's found. And she is the 'no label girl.'"

In giving more back story to the character's sexual history, Aiden Dennison was detailed as Ashley's one male romantic encounter and relationship. After Aiden and another unknown male, she started dating girls exclusively, all viewed by her as sexual adventures. Ashley's need to dominate her lovers was seen to change with Spencer. Spencer became more than just another conquest for her. When the two broke up, this briefly changed. Ashley again sought out Aiden and used him to get over Spencer, her need to conquer once again present.

Though Ashley's heart is often seen to be with Spencer, she exhibits what can be construed as romantic feelings or at least a powerful emotional bond where Aiden is concerned.

Storyline

Season 1
Ashley Davies is born on April 21, 1989. She is raised into a wealthy family, mostly by her mother. Her father is Raife Davies (C.C. DeVille), a rock star who sleeps around, does drugs, and is rarely home at all due to his constant touring with his band, Purple Venom. Her mother is a socialite who is almost never home. Her parents have been divorced since Ashley was eight years old. She only sees her father on special occasions such as her birthday. Ashley suffers from being neglected, and as a result tends to crave attention; she spends her entire life searching for love, but the instant she finds it, she pushes it away because she does not know how to handle it and believes she will only cause the other person pain.

In the first episode, it is revealed that at one point in her life Ashley was dating Aiden Dennison. After the two had sex, Ashley discovered that she was pregnant. She was going to keep the baby, saying that she wanted somebody who she could finally love and who would always love her back. She instead suffered a miscarriage and the two broke up. Ashley then turned to girls and slept around with various nameless girls quite often. After the breakup, she and Aiden rarely spoke. It is having Spencer Carlin in her life that results in her friendship with Aiden being restored.

When Spencer arrives at King High in October of junior year, she first meets Ashley after literally running into her and making her spill coffee, books, etc. Ashley, who is rude to her at first, later apologizes at the gym. The two instantly become best friends, as Ashley opens Spencer's world to a vast array of new possibilities.

Ashley's past with Madison Duarte is also revealed. Ashley and Madison were once friends in freshman year of high school, but once Aiden took an interest in Ashley, Madison became jealous and broke off their friendship. Madison made fun of Ashley because of her sexuality and found great enjoyment in harassing her. This continues throughout the first season.

Ashley visibly develops romantic feelings for Spencer. It is clear that Spencer, who is beginning to discover her true sexuality due to Ashley, returns those feelings, but Ashley keeps pushing her away because she "wants [her], but she doesn't want to hurt [her]". Spencer tells her that she cannot only take care of herself but Ashley as well, and the two share a kiss that leads to both intercourse and the start of their romance.

Season 2
Ashley and her father have a dinner, to which Spencer is invited. Ashely's dad dies shortly after in a car crash. Ashley is upset with her father's death and pushes Spencer away.

At her father's funeral, Ashley discovers that she has a half sister (Kyla) and she realizes that all she ever knew about her dad was a lie. Ashley does not like Kyla because of what she represents (her father's lies) and Ashley becomes angry when Spencer tries to integrate Kyla into their group. She manages to deal with her family problems thanks to Spencer, who helps her along the way.

As Spencer and Ashley's relationship progresses, Spencer tries to keep their love a secret, but Ashley wants it out in the open. She pressures Spencer to "come out" to her parents, but she is too afraid of what her devout Catholic mother, Paula, will think. When Spencer's mother walks in on Spencer and Ashley during an intimate moment, she reacts angrily and throws Ashley out of the house; she tells Spencer that she cannot go to school because she does not want her to see Ashley. She hires a sexual therapist to "straighten her out", but Spencer's father, Arthur vehemently opposes this and puts his support firmly behind his daughter. Paula begins to tolerate Spencer and Ashley's relationship.

During prom, Madison apologizes to Ashley, saying that she finally understands how much grief Ashley and Spencer have gone through in order to be together.

Tragedy abounds when the prom is the target of a drive-by shooting. Several people die, including Spencer's adopted brother, Clay.

Season 3
Following the shooting, Ashley leaves for Europe with her mother because she "just couldn't deal". During her time away, she does not talk to Spencer, who is mourning the loss of her brother. Upon returning, she tries to talk to her, but Spencer is not ready and only pushes her away. Ashley later tricks Spencer into talking; the two kiss passionately for some time, but Spencer decides to break it off and stay broken up. She explains that Ashley was not there for her when Clay died, and because Ashley "didn't know what