# Minnekhada Regional Park

Minnekhada Regional Park is a natural park situated in northeast Coquitlam, British Columbia, alongside Pitt-Addington Marsh and the Pitt River. It is over 200 hectares in size and features trails, rock knolls, abundant trees, birds, and other wildlife. At the centre of the park is the main marsh area, divided into upper and lower sections, divided by a dike and a small footbridge.

There are two main entrances to the park with parking facilities. The Quarry Road entrance serves as the primary trail access point for hikers and bird watchers. The Oliver Road entrance provides access to Minnekhada Lodge, as well as access to some of the trails. There is a secondary entrance in the northwest corner of the park, further north of the Quarry Road entrance, but there is no parking at this location.

Three primary trails through the park follow an eastern trajectory toward the Pitt-Addington Marsh boundary:
 Quarry Trail
 Mid-Marsh Trail
 Lodge/Fern Trails

There are five lookout points in the park. Of these, Low Knoll with its full view of the lower marsh, and High Knoll with its  elevation and view of the Pitt River and Pitt Meadows beyond, are among the most popular.  A full perimeter trail hike through Quarry Trail, Fern Trail, and Lodge Trail covers a distance of  (excluding excursions to lookout points such as High Knoll and Low Knoll).

Minnekhada Regional Park is a designated Wildlife Watch site.

The name 'Minnekhada' comes from the Sioux language which means 'rattling water' (mini meaning water and kahda meaning to rattle).

Beyond the trails, lookouts, forests, and marshes, Minnekhada Regional Park has a long history as private property until the late 1970s. It includes over 200 hectares of farmhouses, stables, fields, marshes, and forests that cover the grounds, built by many of the owners. The extensive history of the park includes buildings and cabins; Minnekhada farm and hunting lodge are among the few that are still standing. These two buildings were the earliest buildings built on the lands of the park.

Minnekhada Lodge
Minnekhada Lodge was built as a country retreat for hunting in 1934 by Lieutenant Governor Eric Hamber. Hamber hosted hunting retreats for his friends throughout the year and needed a place for his guests to sleep during their stays, and as a retreat to get away.

The lodge cost approximately $50,000 to build. Once it was built, Minnekhada Lodge was a place for entertainment instead of just farmland. High-profile guests would come to unwind and dine at the lodge. Cedar and Oliver Drive were paved so that roads were better suited to accommodate the upper-class visitors. It was rumoured that Queen Elizabeth and George VI visited the lodge in 1939.

It was donated to the Greater Vancouver Regional District (GVRD) by the provincial government in 1984. The rooms and grounds of the lodge are open to the public on many Sundays throughout the year. Today, the hunting lodge is open to the public on the first Sunday of most months, during the hours of 1 pm to 4 pm.

Minnekhada Farm
In the 20th century, Minnekhada Farm cycled through several different agricultural businesses with products such as beef cattle, sheep and dairy as well as vegetables. It was then sold to many other buyers; the 415-hectare property was chartered to the Provincial Agricultural Land Commission, by The Ministry of Lands, Parks, and Housing. In this charter, 290 hectares were given to farmers for a 20 year period, under an agricultural lease. Nowadays, 46 of the total 200 hectares of Minnekhada Regional Park are the farm itself. When the Minnekhada Farm first became a farm it was the beginning of integrating modern farming practices and machinery.

Minnekhada Farm was added to the park in 1995. The GVRD is currently restoring its fields and buildings as a heritage estate farm and equestrian centre. There is currently no access to Minnekhada Farm.

History

Harry L. Jenkins 
During the early 1910s, the farm was purchased by Harry Leroy Jenkins, who then put the farm’s ownership in the title of Anna S. Jenkins Estate Incorporated limited. The company that Jenkins established included the Minnekhada dairy farm and Jenkins is credited with the first use of the name "Minnekhada."

Eric Hamber 

The first person to put the land to mass use was Eric Hamber. Hamber’s use of Minnekhada, was that the farm should have stayed as a horse breeding operation, hay and oats farm, but to his surprise, his wife, Aldyen, convinced him to turn the farm into a real and functioning farm, completed with livestock and vegetables to grow. Furthermore, this change caused a new growth in buildings, with new stables and barns being built. In the terms of hunting, Minnekhada was utilized for its land, in hunting and horse riding ways by Hamber and his acquaintances. The marsh was the main target for hunting, as the mass abundance of buckwheat was suitable to luring ducks to the area.

Clarence Wallace 
When Hamber became unable to care for the land, care for the animals, and hunt, he sold the property to Colonel Clarence Wallace, whom he was friends with. Eric Hamber and Clarence Wallace, both had an impact on BC’s economic timeline, as they both had large companies in timber and shipping. Wallace was the owner of Burrard DryDocks, and Hamber, the president of BC mills, timber, and trading.

Wallace had owned other land before owning Minnekhada, he owned Addington Marsh, which was later bought from him by The National Second Century Fund, now the Addington Marsh is currently under the management of the Fish and Wildlife Branch, in an effort of a sanctuary.

Wallace had similar ideas on what to use Minnekhada for, his idea was for hunting and using the lodge as a weekend getaway. In the late 1970’s, some of the forest by the lodge, that had been underdeveloped, was logged. The logging occurred as a way to administer vegetation and wildlife studies prior to the park’s development would have occurred. Prior to the time of the logging, the park’s forests were shaded with climax forests, that then after, all the regeneration had happened naturally with trees like the Red Alder settling their spots in the forest right away. It has not been known how much or what the trees were used for and logged, that had happened under Wallace’s watch.

After Wallace bought the land from Hamber, and gave him the opportunity to visit whenever he pleases; the Minnekhada park went to many hands, and settled down on Dave Barrett’s NDP government. With that, all 415 hectares of the property, the government chose what to do with it, as now the regional park is just above 200 hectares itself. It was then later returned to the Crown and left alone. In the mid 1990’s, the farm was obtained by the GVRD (Greater Vancouver Regional District) from the Crown, and become an addition to Minnekhada regional park. As the parks committee had delegated that at least 125 hectares of the land should be arranged by the Greater Vancouver Regional District, with the idea that it would stay in the state of a regional nature park; that indeed had happened. The government used some of it as recreation, as they developed housing units that were announced by Burke Mountain.  Furthermore, the 120 hectares of non-farm use land, that had the hunting lodge, marsh and upland knolls on it, were up to the discussion of the advisory committee, which was settled with the land commission.

Extracted resources 
The land that is now Minnekhada Regional park, has had many great uses to it. From hunting to farming, to horse racing for a brief period, by Hamber himself. Hamber used the land a lot for hunting, as well as Wallace, during these hunting weekends, hundreds of ducks were shot. When the ducks weren’t lured in by the buckwheat in the off season, the bottom part of the marsh was pumped out, and the cattle pastures went in its place. This would have happened many times over the years, and would have caused mass stress to the animals, but it is not talked about what had happened to the animals that were affected by the draining of the marsh and their populations over the years.

On the hunting terms of Wallace, he hunted deer, though his wife didn’t agree with his hunting. As he also had logged the land by the lodge, it wasn’t said how much was logged and what they did with the materials. As the lands underwent many changes, as new infrastructure was always going up, such as new barns and stables. The grounds also underwent a lot with its soil, as new crops went in; as oats, vegetables and hay were growing and supporting the animals like sheep, cattle, and dairy cows.

Ecology

Habitat and ecosystems 
Within its 200 hectares, the park brings together several types of habitats that support multiple species. Three main ecosystems can be distinguished: the marsh/wetland, the temperate rainforest, and the farm/grassland. That diversity is explained by the variation in different factors affecting the terrain. One is the topography,