# S-algol

S-algol (St Andrews Algol) is a computer programming language derivative of ALGOL 60 developed at the University of St Andrews in 1979 by Ron Morrison and Tony Davie. The language is a modification of ALGOL to contain orthogonal data types that Morrison created for his PhD thesis.  Morrison would go on to become professor at the university and head of the department of computer science. The S-algol language was used for teaching at the university at an undergraduate level until 1999. It was also the language taught for several years in the 1980s at a local school in St. Andrews, Madras College. The computer science text Recursive Descent Compiling describes a recursive descent compiler for S-algol, implemented in S-algol.

PS-algol is a persistent derivative of S-algol.  It was developed around 1981 at the University of Edinburgh and of St Andrews.  It supports database ability by providing for longevity of data in the form of a persistent heap that survives termination of PS-algol programs.

History and implementations
Ron Morrison's 1979 PhD thesis, On the Development of Algol, describes the design and implementation of the S-algol language.  The technical report defining the language, The S-algol Reference Manual (1979, 1988), thanks several people for their help, including David Turner for discussions on language design around 1975.  The 1981 computer science text Recursive Descent Compiling describes the compiler implementation and bootstrapping process, and the 1982 book An Introduction to Programming with S-algol uses the language to teach computer programming.

The first S-algol implementation was on a PDP-11/40 computer running the Unix operating system. Due to the small 64 kilobyte address space available on the PDP-11, an interpreted bytecode implementation was chosen.  A single-pass, recursive descent compiler written in S-algol translated S-algol source into S-code, a bytecode for a stack-based abstract machine tailored for S-algol.  The S-code was then executed by an interpreter.  The S-algol implementation had many similarities with work on earlier Pascal compilers. The technique of using a recursive descent compiler to produce code for an abstract machine was well known, with the Pascal P compiler being a famous example from the early 1970s. The S-algol compiler was written using the stepwise refinement process described by Urs Amman for the development of a Pascal compiler and championed by the inventor of Pascal, Niklaus Wirth.

Reflecting the memory organization of the PDP-11 as 32K 16-bit words, the S-code instruction encoding was designed so that each bytecode consisted of one word. The initial bootstrap was performed by writing an S-algol compiler in Algol W on the IBM/360 that produced S-code, and using it to compile the compiler written in S-algol to S-code.  The resulting S-code file was copied to the PDP-11 and executed on an S-code interpreter written for the PDP-11, making it self-hosting.  The self-hosted S-algol compiler executed approximately 7.7 million S-code instructions to compile itself, generating an output file of about ten thousand S-code instructions (16-bit words).

An S-code interpreter was written for the VAX computer running VMS, making the VAX the first S-algol port.  S-algol was also ported to the Zilog Z80 microprocessor running CP/M, including raster graphics facilities that had been added to the language.  In 1983, S-algol was used as the basis for the PS-algol system, used for research in persistence.  The PS-algol S-code interpreter was implemented in C, and the S-code language was extended to include raster graphics.  The PS-algol implementation was the basis for S-algol ports to the Macintosh and Sun workstations, featuring a compiler rewritten in C and targeting the extended S-code.

S-algol was the basis for the PS-algol research in 1983, and a few years later PS-algol became the starting point for the Napier88 language and implementation.  While all S-algol compilers produced S-code to be interpreted, a later Napier88 implementation experimented with generating code in C and compiling it with the gcc compiler to provide a native code implementation.

Language overview
An S-algol program is a sequence of declarations and clauses.  Language elements that are declared include constants, variables, procedures and structures.  Constant and variable declarations must specify an initial value. The compiler infers the data type of the declared constant or variable from the type of the initial value, so the type is not stated explicitly.  Data types include integer, real, boolean, string, pointer (to a structure), and file, and vectors (arrays) of these types.  Procedure declarations do specify the data types of their arguments and return value (unless void).  Structures also specify the data types of their fields.  Clauses include expressions and control structures (if, case, for, while and repeat while).  The if and case control structures can have values and can be used freely in expressions as long as the type compatibility rules are met.

! Comments are introduced by an exclamation point and continue until end of line.

! The let keyword introduces declarations of constants and variables
! Identifiers start with an alphabetic character followed by alphanumeric characters or the full stop (.)
! An initial value must be given, and this determines the data type of declaration

let width := 10                   ! := sets the value of a variable, this is an int
let animal := "dog"               ! type string

let x := -7 ; let y := x + x      ! ; separates clauses, needed only if there are two or more clauses on a line

let n.a = 6.022e+23               ! = is used to set the value of a constant, this is a cfloat (constant float)

! if and case can have values and be used in expressions
let no.of.lives := if animal = "cat" then 9 else 1

! Sieve of Eratosthenes
write "Find primes up to n = ?"
let n = readi                     ! constant values can be set during the program run
let p = vector 2::n of true       ! vector of bool with bounds 2 to n
for i = 2 to truncate(sqrt(n)) do ! for indexes are constants so they use = rather than :=
    if p(i) do                    ! vector dereference uses parens like a procedure call
        for j = 2 * i to n by i do
            p(j) := false
for i = 2 to n do
    if p(i) do write i, "'n"      ! 'n in a literal string is a newline

! structure (record) type for a binary tree of cstrings
! the pntr data type can point to a structure of any type, type checking is done at runtime
structure tree.node(cstring name ; pntr left, right)

! inserts a new string into the binary tree head
procedure insert.tree(cpntr head ; cstring new -> pntr)
! the case clause ends with a mandatory default option, use default : {} if it is not needed
case true of
    head = nil       : tree.node(new, nil, nil)
    new < head(name) : { head(left) := insert.tree(head(left), new) ; head }
    new > head(name) : { head(right) := insert.tree(head(right), new) ; head }
    default          : head

procedure print.tree(cpntr head)
if head ~= nil do                 ! ~= is the not equals operator
begin
    print.tree(head(left))
    write head(name), "'n"
    print.tree(head(right))
end

let fruit := nil
fruit := insert.tree(fruit, "banana")
fruit := insert.tree(fruit, "kiwi")
fruit := insert.tree(fruit, "apple")
fruit := insert.tree(fruit, "peach")
print.tree(fruit)                 ! print in sorted order

! The end of the S-algol program is indicated by ?
?

Semantic principles
As its name suggests, S-algol is a member of the ALGOL family of programming languages.  Morrison identifies five traits of the ALGOL family:
 Scope rules and block structure – Names can be introduced to define local quantities that are undefined outside the local environment, but different environments may use the same name unambiguously to represent different objects.
 Abstraction facility – Provision of a powerful abstraction facility to shorten and clarify programs. In the ALGOL family this is offered by procedures with parameters.
 Compile-time type checking – Types can be checked by a static analysis of the program.
 Infinite store – The programmer is not responsible for storage allocation and can create as many data objects as needed.
 Selective store updating – The program may selectively alter the store.  In the ALGOL family this is effected by the assignment statement.

S-algol was designed to differ from prior members of the ALGOL family by being designed according to semantic principles to provide power through simplicity, and simplicity through greater generality. (See Orthogonal.)  Morrison describes three semantic principles that guided the design of S-algol:
 Principle of correspondence – The rules governing names should be uniform and apply everywhere.  This mostly applies to correspondence between declarations and procedure parameters, including consideration of all parameter passing