# Beggiatoa

Beggiatoa is a genus of Gammaproteobacteria belonging to the order Thiotrichales, in the Pseudomonadota phylum. This genus was one of the first bacteria discovered by Ukrainian botanist Sergei Winogradsky. During his research in Anton de Bary's laboratory of botany in 1887, he found that  Beggiatoa  oxidized  hydrogen sulfide  (H2S) as an energy source, forming intracellular  sulfur  droplets, with oxygen as the terminal electron acceptor and CO2 used as a carbon source. Winogradsky named it in honor of the Italian doctor and botanist  Francesco Secondo Beggiato (1806 - 1883), from Venice. Winogradsky referred to this form of metabolism as "inorgoxidation" (oxidation of inorganic compounds), today called chemolithotrophy. These organisms live in sulfur-rich environments such as soil, both marine and freshwater, in the deep sea hydrothermal vents and in polluted marine environments. The finding represented the first discovery of lithotrophy. Two species of Beggiatoa have been formally described: the type species Beggiatoa alba and Beggiatoa leptomitoformis, the latter of which was only published in 2017. This colorless and filamentous bacterium, sometimes in association with other sulfur bacteria (for example the genus Thiothrix), can be arranged in biofilm visible to the naked eye formed by a very long white filamentous mat, the white color is due to the stored sulfur. Species of Beggiatoa have cells up to 200 µm in diameter and they are one of the largest prokaryotes on Earth.

Taxonomy 
The genera Beggiatoa is a quite diverse group as it has representatives occupying several habitats and niches, both in fresh and salt water. In the past they have been confused as close relatives of Oscillatoria spp. (Cyanobacteria) for the morphology and motility characters, but 5S rRNA analysis showed that members of Beggiatoa are phylogenetically distant from Cyanobacteria being members of the Gammaproteobacteria phylum.

The capability to oxidize sulfide and store sulfur are the main features which separates Beggiatoa and closely related Thioploca as filamentous colorless sulfur bacteria from other filamentous bacteria (like cyanobacteria and the nonsulfur-oxidizing Cytophaga and Flexibacter) Another defining feature is the ability to store nitrate inside the vacuoles of the wide marine species’ cells. 16S rRNA sequences base studies inferred that this characteristic is shared between members of a monophyletic clade nested in the Beggiatoa genera; this clade also includes members of Thioploca and Thiomargarita, both presenting only slight differences with Beggiatoas: whereas the former grows sharing a common slime sheath, the latter has not conserved filamentous growth and forms chains of rounded cells. Since the phylogenic history do not reflect the nomenclature, there's a need for a new denomination of genera and species. The Neo-type strain is the B18LB and it settled the criteria for identification of the freshwater species Beggiatoa alba.

According to NCBI database only two species of Beggiatoa spp. have been validly published: Beggiatoa alba, and Beggiatoa leptomitoformis.

Genetic 
Because of the lack of pure culture, little is known about the genetics of Beggiatoa. Beggiatoa alba show a GC content between 40 and 42.7 mol%, the presence of two or three similar plasmids and the genome size of Beggiatoa alba strain B18LD result to be about 3 Megabase (Mb). An important study about the genomic of Beggiatoa analyzed the sequences obtained from two single filaments of a vacuolated strain. Optical mapping showed that the genome size was about 7.4 Mb and the sequence analyses detected pathways for sulfur oxidation, nitrate and oxygen respiration, and CO2 fixation, confirming the chemolithoautotrophic physiology of Beggiatoa. Furthermore, comparative genomics indicates horizontal gene transfer between Beggiatoa and Cyanobacteria of storage, metabolic, and gliding abilities.

Morphology and motility 

By the observation of their morphological characteristics, Beggiatoa spp. can be divided into three categories:

 Freshwater strains, characterized by narrow filaments with no vacuoles;
 Narrow marine strains, without vacuoles (filaments' diameter of about 4.4 µm);
 Larger marine strains, with vacuoles for nitrate storing (filaments' diameter vary between 5 and 140 µm)
Obviously, this classification is purely ideal so some exceptions can exist. Narrow filaments are usually composed by cylindrical cells which length is about 1.5 to 8 times their thickness; wider filaments instead are disk-shaped with cell lengths from 0.10 to 0.90 times their cell width. In all of the cultured strains the terminal cells of the filaments appear rounded. Although they are Gram-negative bacteria, Beggiatoa show unusual cell-wall and membrane organization. Sometimes are present further membranes that cover the peptidoglycan layer and the number of this additional membranes is very variable. Their presence maybe is due to the harsh conditions in which some of these organisms live. Even the intracellular granules can be covered by extra-membranes structure. Beside the sulfur granules, the cells often show the presence of similarly stored granules of polyhydroxybutyrate and polyphosphate. Very common in large marine vacuolated Beggiatoa are hollow-structured filaments, composed by cells with a narrow cytoplasm surrounding a large central vacuole, exploited for nitrate storing.

The filaments move by gliding and this movement is likely connected to string-like structures in the outer membrane and trans-peptidoglycan channels. Sometimes the filaments can also break through the formation of necridia cells in the middle of the filament. The motility of the filament is very important for the adaptability of the bacteria, because it allows to move on more suitable conditions for the cellular metabolism. The main drivers that guide the movement of Beggiatoa filaments are high oxygen and sulfide levels and light exposure, from which the filaments move away.

Cell growth 
Beggiatoa reproducing strategy is fragmentation. The growth of a colony leading to mat development is obtained through alternating filament elongation and breakage. Breakage can happen essentially in the middle of a stretched filament, at the tip of a filament loop or where a tip of a loop was once placed. The presence of sacrificial cells is fundamental as they interrupt the communication between two parts of one filament; in this way each section can change its gliding direction causing the split.

The average filament length achieved through this process is also result of gene-environment interactions as, for instance, the growth and position of the filament is function of vertical gradients of oxygen and sulfide. Therefore, it is proposed that good environmental conditions will paradoxically cause cell death in order to enhance filament breakage, thus reproduction.

Metabolism 
Beggiatoa group is mainly composed by chemolithotrophic, sulfide-oxidizing bacteria. However, the range of possible metabolic pathways is very diversified, varying from the heterotrophy to the chemolithoautotrophy. Because of this huge variability the diverse bacteria of this genus can differ greatly from each other.

Carbon metabolism 
In Beggiatoa group are present both autotrophic and heterotrophic metabolisms. Autotrophic Beggiatoa carry out the CO2 fixation through the Calvin cycle and the employment of the RuBisCO enzyme. The latter shows different regulation levels in obligated and facultative autotrophs. For instance, in the obligately autotrophic strain MS-81-1c RuBisCO cannot be repressed, while in the facultatively autotrophic strain MS-81-6 it is tightly regulated to switch from autotrophic to heterotrophic growth and vice versa. Beside the autotrophic strains, most of the freshwater Beggiatoa strains are heterotrophic, requiring organic substrates for growth. Specifically, many of them can be considered mixotrophs, because they grow heterotrophically, oxidizing organic compounds, but they can also use sulfide or other reduced sulfur compounds as electron donors. By this strategy, the organic carbon skeletons are saved for the purpose of increasing biomass and the CO2 autotrophic fixation is not required. Mixotrophy has been suspected to be the trophic modality for many freshwater strains, but it has only been found in one marine strain of Beggiatoa, MS-81-6. Also a metabolic pathway of C-1 compounds utilization has been revealed in Beggiatoa leptomitoformis strain D-402, through comprehensive analysis of its genomic, biochemistry, physiology and molecular biology.

Nitrogen metabolism 
Beggiatoa group shows substantial versatility in utilizing nitrogen compounds. Nitrogen can be a source for growth or, in the case of nitrate, it can be an electron acceptor for anaerobic respiration. Heterotrophic freshwater Beggiatoa spp. assimilate nitrogen for growth. Nitrogen sources include nitrate, nitrite, ammonia, amino acids, ur