# Willem van der Haegen

D. Willem van der Haegen (1430; County of Flanders – 21 December 1507/9; São Jorge, Azores), or Willem De Kersemakere, known in Portuguese as Guilherme da Silveira, or Guilherme Casmaca, was a Flemish-born Azorean entrepreneur, explorer, and colonizer. He was a pioneer colonizer in Azorean history and his descendants formed part of the original Azorean nobility.

Colonization of the Azores
As part of his inheritance, King Edward of Portugal bequeathed the islands of the Azores to his brother, the Infante D. Henriques (Henry the Navigator), in 1433. This was subsequently left to Henry's nephew and adopted son, Infante D. Fernando, in addition to Henry's title as Grand Master of the Order of Christ. A grant was made by the Infante to his aunt, D. Isabella of Portugal (Edward and Henry's sister), the Duchess of Burgundy, in the Low Countries. For many of the Flemish who were recuperating from the Hundred Years' War, this grant offered an opportunity of alleviating their suffering.

Willem, a wealthy Flemish merchant who traded with the Portuguese, was invited by Joost de Hurtere (for four-years Captain-General of the island of Faial) to settle the island with him, in an archipelago that was becoming known as a New Flanders (or the Flemish Islands). Consequently, in 1470, with his wife, Marguerite, and at his own expense, he offloaded two ships carrying his extended family, slaves and professionals of various services, to begin what was characterised as a "second-wave" of immigration to the island (the first having been pioneered by de Hurtere in the 1460s). Willem, by his virtues and distinguished personality, became popular on the island. But, sensing a level of bad faith on the part of de Hurtere and a growing rivalry, he abandoned his holdings on Faial, to settle in Quatro Ribeiras, on the island of Terceira. He began to cultivate wheat and gather woad plants for export (specifically Isatis tinctoria which was also produced in the Picardy and Normandy Regions of France until that time). These plants, along with other species, were essential in the production of many of the dyes popular with mercantile classes. Most islands in the archipelago were populated, and the plants commercialized by the landed gentry for their exportable nature; early settlements were founded on the basis of agricultural and dye-based exports, such as woad. Willem's colonies were no exception.

On a trip to Lisbon he encountered D. Maria de Vilhena (widow of D. Fernão Teles de Meneses, the Donatary of the islands of Flores and Corvo, then administratively one fiefdom) and his son Rui Teles. After some negotiation, D. Maria would cede the rights to the exploration of the islands to Willem, in exchange for monthly payments. Around 1478, he settled in Ribeira da Cruz, where he built homes, developed agriculture (primarily wheat), collected more woad species for export, and explored for tin, silver or other minerals (under the assumption that the islands were part of the mythic Ilhas Cassterides, the islands of silver and tin). Owing to the island's isolation and difficulties in communication his crops became difficult to export. After several years, he decided to leave the island and return to Terceira. But his return was brief; after seven years he left Quatro Ribeiras and settled in the area of Topo, São Jorge Island, effectively establishing the community with other Flemish citizens. He died there on December 21, 1507/09, and was buried in the chapel-annex of the Solar dos Tiagos, in the villa of Topo, today in ruins.

Personal life

Marriage and issue
He married Marguerite (née Zabeau or de Savoie) probably in Bruges, Flanders, (at times referred to by Frutuoso as Margarida da Sabuya, others would refer to Margarida da Sabina, Zambuja, Sabuia or Margarethe Sabuio) and would father eight children which would all integrate into the communities of the Central Group of islands:

 Margaretha van der Haegen or Margarida da Silveira (Bruges, 1452 – Flamengos, 1529);  married to the Flemish nobleman Josse van Aertrycke (1451-1546) of the van Aertrycke family of Tillegem. They were married in the parish of Flamengos, Faial, and were the ancestors of the family Silveira Ramos of Portugal, currently headed by Ricardo de Faria Blanc da Silveira Ramos de Camarate Silveira;
 Jan van der Haegen or João da Silveira (Bruges, 1456 – Terceira, 1481), married Guiomar Borges Abarca on Terceira;
Joris van der Haegen or Jorge da Silveira (Bruges, 1458 – death unknown);
Catharina van der Haegen or Catarina da Silveira (Bruges, 1462 – death unknown), married the captain-major Jorge Gomes de Ávila in 1484 on Graciosa;
Louise van der Haegen or Luzia da Silveira (Bruges, 1464 – Topo, 1548), married André Fernandes Villalobos around 1485 in the villa of Topo, São Jorge;
 Anna van der Haegen or Ana da Silveira (Bruges, 1466 – Goa, Portuguese India, 1549), married to Tristão Martins Pereira in Goa;
Maria van der Haegen or Maria da Silveira (Bruges, 1468 – Faial, 1545), married to João Pires de Matos in 1497 on Faial;
 Frans De Kersemakere or Francisco Casmaca (Faial, 1499 – Faial, 1595), married to Isabella De Hurtere in 1524 on Faial, a granddaughter of Joost De Hurtere.

Descendants
The Flemish surname van der Haegen comes from the word Haag, which means forest, and is translated into Portuguese as Silveira. The families with the surname Silveira, generally, descend from the Fleming Willem, although there is a branch of Silveiras on the island of Graciosa that are direct descendants of continental Portuguese families. By his virtue and personality, he was able to found settlements that would eventually develop into important communities in the Azores. His descendants, using the adopted name Silveira, would continue his work on the islands and within the Portuguese empire (to a lesser extent). The name Silveira was adopted by Willem's descendants in the Azores, from the literal translation to the Portuguese of the Dutch Haag or Haeg meaning "bush", "forest" or "scrub", which is silveira in the Portuguese. His family lineage is separate from the Silveiras of continental Portugal which also inhabited some settlements in the Azores. Willem's children obtained from King John II of Portugal, confirmation of family heraldry (used in Flanders) for their use in the archipelago.

Possible origins

In 2006, in his article 'Les Flamads au Portugal au XV Siècle the French historian Jacques Paviot wrote about the existence of a civil sentence in the archives of Bruges, written in medieval dialects of French and Dutch, which details the commercial relations  of an individual named Willem De Kersemakere with various Portuguese merchants, including Lopo Mendes.

According to Paviot and to further research published in 2011 by the Belgian genealogist André L. Fr. Claeys, this document, in comparison to the will of Willem van der Haegen's wife, Magarida de Sabuya, dated from 14 September 1510 and registered by the notary André Fernandes (in which Willem is referred to as Guilherme Casmaca), concluded that the real name of the colonizer until then known as Willem van der Haegen was in fact Willem De Kersemakere.

Claeys argues that the reason why De Kersemakere was known as Willem van der Haegen is that he must have been first married in Bruges to a lady named Van der Haegen (unknown first name, born around 1432, date of marriage unknown, date of death before 1469). The conclusion is that on the Azores, according to Portuguese tradition, Willem's children from this first marriage must have chosen the surname of their mother van der Haegen or da Silveira, but without their father's family name "Casmaca", as it is also the Portuguese custom.

Furthermore, Claeys remarks that the chroniclers and genealogists of Azorean history based their writings on documents of the XVIth and XVIIth centuries, several generations after Willem's lifetime, maintaining the surname da Silveira for all the children of the first marriage and even for Willem himself. This would probably mean, in Claeys' conclusion, that the first seven children are not from Margarida de Sabuya, and thus retain their mother's name (in Bruges, they were probably named De Kersemakere), while Francisco, the youngest, was always called Casmaca. Claeys' also claims that, according to the Flemish and Portuguese customs, men never receive the surname of their wives, thus, the denomination "Willem van der Haegen" would be incorrect.

In addition to Paviot and Claeys, several authorsTranscription of a lecture by Jorge Forjaz, Portuguese Historian and Genealogist, 2017. throughout the centuries have referred to Willem as Guilherme Casmaca or Cosmacra (a possible linguistical corruption of Kersemakere), with the earliest attestation, besides the will of his wife, being a description of his life and family by Gaspar Frutuoso written in the years 1586-1590, in chapter 36 of the manuscript Saudades da Terra. Likewise, in a contemporary account to Willem's lif