# Mito Domain

was a Japanese domain of the Edo period.  It was associated with Hitachi Province in modern-day Ibaraki Prefecture.

In the han system, Mito was a political and economic abstraction based on periodic cadastral surveys and projected agricultural yields.  In other words, the domain was defined in terms of kokudaka, not land area. This was different from the feudalism of the West.

History
The domain's capital was the city of Mito. Beginning with the appointment of Tokugawa Yorifusa by his father, Shōgun Tokugawa Ieyasu, in 1608, the Mito branch of the Tokugawa clan controlled the domain until the abolition of the han system in 1871.  During the Edo period, Mito represented the center of nativism largely as a result of the Mitogaku, an influential school of Japanese thought, which advanced the political philosophy of sonnō jōi ("revere the emperor, expel the barbarians") that had become a popular sentiment after 1854. Mito's sponsorship of the Dai Nihon-shi (A History of Great Japan) established the domain's tradition of intellectualism.  Later, Mito scholars and their ideology influenced many of the revolutionaries involved in the Meiji Restoration.

Edo period
Following the establishment of the Tokugawa shogunate in 1603, Tokugawa Ieyasu appointed his eleventh son, Tokugawa Yorifusa, as daimyō in 1608.  With his appointment, Yorifusa became the founding member of the Mito branch of the Tokugawa clan.  Along with the Tokugawa branches in Kii and Owari, the Mito branch represented one of three Tokugawa houses known as the gosanke.

Although the Mito branch held less land and wealth than either of the other two branches, they maintained considerable influence throughout the Edo period.  The domain's promiximity to the de facto capital in Edo was a contributing factor to this power as well as the fact that many people unofficially considered the Mito daimyō to be "vice-shōgun".

Tokugawa Mitsukuni, the third son of Tokugawa Yorifusa, became the second daimyō of Mito in 1661.  Mitsukuni further established Mito's status as a respected han by sponsoring the Dai Nihon-shi in 1657.  The endeavor would launch Mito's reputation as a center for intellectual thought.

Mito School
The Mito School (Mitogaku) was an influential school of Japanese thought which advocated isolationism, nativism, and reverence of the emperor.  The origins of this Neo-Confucianist movement date to Mitsukuni's decision to establish a historiographical organization known as the Shōkōkan in 1657.  Mitsukuni recruited educated scholars to the Shōkōkan to study the history and philosophy of Japan. Mitsukuni initiated the creation of the Dai Nihon-shi by the scholars in order to compile a history of Japan which would focus on the imperial line.  Each chapter of the "Annals" in the Dai Nihon-shi concentrated on the rule of a specific emperor.  The project took more than two hundred and fifty years to finish, and it was officially published in 1906.

While scholars were compiling the Dai Nihon-shi, the Mito domain experienced agricultural and economic problems.  Beginning as early as 1688, financial ruin plagued Mito and discontent grew in the domain.  In addition to the financial issues, famines and natural disasters were common occurrences.  In 1709, dissatisfied peasants staged the largest rebellion in the history of the domain. An increasing number of discontent citizens in Mito embraced the works of the early Mito scholars for their reverence of the emperor and their anti-foreign ideology.  These works inspired waves of nationalism and loyalty to the imperial family during the 17th century.

During these disorderly years, the Mito scholarship grew into a renowned school of thought in Japan.  Under Mitsukuni's leadership, the Dai Nihon-shi significantly expanded to seventy-three chapters of the "Annals" and one hundred and seventy chapters of "Biographies" by the time of his death in 1700.  In 1720, the Mito scholars finished the "Annals" and "Biographies" and offered them to the bakufu.  These events signalled the end of the early Mito school. For the next seven decades, the Shōkōkan made very little progress with the Dai Nihon-shi without the guidance of Mitsukuni.  in 1786, Tachihara Suiken took over leadership of the Shōkōkan and resumed work on the compilation.  Fujita Yūkoku became the head of the institute after Tachihara, and he pushed for more focus on the history of that period.  During the late 18th century, two factions within the Shōkōkan emerged. Fujita and the other opponents of Tachihara called for the removal of Asaka Tanpaku's "Appraisals" as well as the changing of the name Dai Nihon-shito "Nihon" or "Yamato". The struggle between the two factions eventually led to the house arrest of Fujita in 1797.  By 1807, Fujita was once again in power and Tachihara had left the institute.

As Mito thought developed during the 19th century, the scholars began to emphasize anti-Western sentiment and the importance of the emperor in Japanese society.  In particular, Mito scholars embraced the political slogan "sonnō jōi" which means "Revere the Emperor and Expel the Barbarians".  The scholar Aizawa Seishisai was the first advocate of this philosophy in Japan.  In 1825, he wrote New Proposals, which presented his ideas about the need to protect Japan from the Western 'barbarians'.  He promoted nativism and opposition to Western force, trade, and belief systems.  He was particularly a fierce opponent of Christianity, which in his view undermined Japanese values.  Seishisai likewise advocated support of the emperor as a method of confronting the Western threat from abroad.  In the work, Seishisai also advanced the idea of kokutai ("national essence") which combined Confucian morals, Shinto myths, and other philosophies.  According to Seishisai, the Japanese imperial family were direct descendants of Amaterasu, the Sun Goddess, so Japan was supposed to establish the proper standard for other nations to emulate.  New Proposals served as an inspiration for Japanese nationalists throughout the 19th century leading up to the Meiji Restoration-1869.

Mito thought stressed other ideas concerning the role of morality in Tokugawa Japan.  Fujita, a prominent scholar, argued that Japanese civilization would end as a result of internal problems rather than external threats.  Other writers of the late Mito school such as Fujita Toko and Seishisai also agreed that lack of moral leadership would weaken Japan from within and expose the country to the invasion of Westerners.  Many of the Mito scholars worried about economic collapse, and Fujita especially recognized that many financial troubles in Mito were present throughout Japan.  Basing his argument on Neo-Confucianism, Fujita reasoned that the emperor grants power to the shōgun to confront domestic and foreign dangers.  Fujita and the other Mito scholars decided that the shogunate had not upheld its duty to preserve the defense or economic prosperity of Japan.  Fujita suggested that the bakufu should push for reforms, and the daimyōs should implement the reforms.  Fujita's ideas represented radical challenges to the bakufu system because he was arguing that the bakufu had failed to address important issues.  Fujita concluded that the shogunate had caused the domains to become economically and militarily weak.

Tokugawa Nariaki and decline of the Shogunate

Tokugawa Nariaki became the daimyō of Mito in 1829, and he developed into an important figure in the nationalist movement in Japan during the 1850s and 1860s.  Nariaki was one of the most radical defenders of Japan's seclusion from the West.  Starting in 1830, Nariaki vocally supported the ideas of the Mito school by championing sonnō jōi and demanding that the shogunate honor the emperor by fulfilling its duties. Traditionally the term Shōgun means "Barbarian exterminating Lord"(this term goes back to the Heian Era, if not before then). Westerners had been termed "barbarians" by the Japanese since their arrival in the 16th century. The first Tokugawa Shōgun, Tokugawa Ieyasu, expelled all foreign powers from Japan and closed it off from the rest of the world. The Dutch were allowed one trading port at Nagasaki which was under strict regulation. Aside from this one small Dutch trading port, Japan remained closed off until 1854 when the shogunate signed a treaty allowing the "barbarians" access to the country of Japan for the purpose of trade. Of course it would be the duty of the Shōgun to expel the "barbarians" from the country on behalf of the emperor. Nariaki believed that Japan's inability to confront foreign and domestic problems was due to the shogunate's mismanagement and selfishness.  In his mind, the shogunate had failed to protect the country and instead had focused on the interests of the bakufu.  He stated that the shōgun should strengthen Japan's defenses and initiate necessary reforms in order to create a strong, prosperous Japan.  Ultimately, Nariaki's determinat