# Coquerel's sifaka

Coquerel's sifaka (Propithecus coquereli) is a diurnal, medium-sized lemur of the sifaka genus Propithecus. It is native to northwest Madagascar.  Coquerel's sifaka was once considered to be a subspecies of Verreaux's sifaka, but was eventually granted full species level, and is listed as Critically Endangered on the IUCN Red List due to habitat loss and hunting. In popular culture, it is known for being the species of the title character in the children's TV show Zoboomafoo. The species was named after French entomologist Charles Coquerel.

Description 
Its dorsal pelage and tail are white, with maroon patches on the chest and portions of the limbs. The coat is generally dense. Its face is bare and black except for a distinctive patch of white fur along the bridge of the nose. Its naked ears are also black, and its eyes are yellow or orange. The bottom of the lemur's hands and feet are black, while the thighs, arms, and chest are a chocolate brown. Like all lemurs, Coquerel's sifaka has a toothcomb, used for grooming and sometimes scraping fruit off a pit.

Distribution
This species occurs at altitudes less than  in the dry deciduous forests of northwestern Madagascar, including coastal forests. It occurs from the Betsiboka River, up to the Maevarano River, and is common in large area between these rivers. Extensive surveys of the species' distribution conducted in 2009, 2010, and 2011 led to the confirmation of its presence in most forest fragments between these rivers. Nevertheless, its eastern distribution limits are unclear. Between the Sofia and Bemarivo Rivers, the species has twice been reported to be absent (Table 1). Similarly, the southern part of the inter-river system between the Bemarivo and Betsiboka Rivers, where little is known about the presence of the species, requires surveys.

Groups of this species have a home range area amounting to . A 2014  work in Ankarafantsika National Park suggests that population densities range from  and significant (negative) effects of road and forest edge and/or a (positive) effect of river proximity on densities. The population size may be ~47,000 individuals in the Ankarafantsika National Park. However, the species is frequently seen around villages and in areas dominated by introduced tree species.

Diet

Coquerel's sifaka's herbivorous diet varies by season. In the wet season, it eats immature leaves, flowers, fruit, bark, and dead wood. In the dry season, it eats mature leaves and buds. It may browse nearly 100 plant species, but the majority of its feeding time is concentrated on about 10% of these. Since it has a very fibrous diet, Coquerel's sifaka has an enlarged cecum and extremely long colon that helps facilitate digestion. These lemurs spend 30-40% of their day foraging, especially in the morning, midday, and evening. Females often take leadership roles during foraging and exert their dominance by eating the preferred food or denying the males food until they are satisfied. These lemurs are beneficial to the environment because they aid seed dispersion. Captive Coquerel’s sifakas eat shining leaf sumac and mimosa.

Behaviour

Coquerel's sifaka lives in matriarchal groups of about three to ten individuals.

It is diurnal and primarily arboreal. Much is known about its behavior from observations in the wild and in captivity.

Social structure
Coquerel’s sifakas spend the majority of their time in areas of just . However, they can live in areas with . Though their home range may overlap with other groups of sifakas, they avoid each other to avoid aggression. When friendly Coquerel's sifakas meet, they greet by rubbing their noses together.

Matriarchy is rare in the animal kingdom as a whole, but common among lemurs. A matriarchal system is particularly pronounced in Coquerel's sifaka. All adult and even most subadult females are dominant over males.

Females have preferential access to food and other resources. When a female is browsing an area or tree, a male waits for her to finish before he moves there to feed. If he gets in the way of the female, she may lunge, smack, or bite him. The male then exhibits submissive behavior by rolling his tail between his legs, chattering softly, and baring his teeth in a grimace before quickly leaping out of her way.

When mating, Coquerel's sifaka commonly practices polyandry. A female may choose to mate with only one male, but most often she mates with several, from other visiting groups, as well as from her own. Males compete for access to sexually receptive females. However, the winner of a fight will not necessarily be the one she selects for breeding. The criteria by which she chooses a mate are evidently more complex.

In some other animals, polyandrous mating is thought to raise the chances of successful fertilization, but this does not appear to be the case in Coquerel's sifaka. Instead, polyandry is thought to be advantageous because when paternity is confused, the likelihood of male infanticide decreases.

Reproduction
Female Coquerel's sifakas choose their mate(s) whether from intragroup males or males from outside groups. They have synchronized estrus in January and February. Infants are born in June and July after a gestation period around 162 days. Normally, one infant is born during Madagascar's dry season (June–July). Newborn lemurs have an average weight of , though it can vary between . An infant clings to its mother's chest until about a month or so after birth, then transfers to her back.

Infants are weaned and become fully independent around six months of age. Adult size is reached at one to five years.

Males and females become sexually mature around two- to three-and-a-half years old, though some do not have their first offspring until they are six. Hybrids have been known to occur with some species. One is P. verreauxi.

Locomotion

In the trees, Coquerel's sifaka moves by vertical clinging and leaping. It maintains an upright posture when at rest or when propelling itself between branches or trunks. This style of arboreal locomotion is characteristic of most, if not all, lemurs. This particular lemur can leap from tree to tree up to . It has the extraordinary ability to leap to spiny trees and precisely place its hands and feet so that it will not hurt itself.

Occasionally, Coquerel's sifaka descends to the ground to cross open spaces. Its terrestrial locomotion is unique to its species. Like Verreaux's sifaka, it moves in a series of bipedal hops with its arms thrown out to the sides for balance. However, whereas Verreaux's sifaka bounds sideways and crosses its legs one in front of the other, the Coquerel's sifaka bounds forward, like a kangaroo. It leans in the direction of its jump to achieve forward momentum.

A study at Duke University's Primate Center examined feeding behaviors of captive sifakas to determine their handedness. Given chopped fruits and vegetables, adult male and female sifakas showed a predominant preference for left-handedness, while younger sifakas alternated hands to grab food. Coquerel's sifakas gain dexterity and hand preference with age, diverging only slightly by gender.

Communication

Coquerel's sifaka uses a variety of auditory, visual, and olfactory signals to communicate. "Sifaka" is a Malagasy name that comes from the lemurs' characteristic "shif-auk" sound. The first syllable is a low growl that "bubbles" in the throat, and the second is a clicking sound like an amplified hiccup. The "shih-fak" call is used to warn fellow group members of a potential ground predator or to threaten enemies and intruders. Coquerel's sifaka is highly territorial.

Contact calls used when groups are traveling include soft grunts and growls. If a sifaka is separated from its group members, it may emit a long, loud wail to find them.

One visual signal which Coquerel's sifaka uses to communicate is a rapid backward jerking of the head. This is a threatening action that may accompany the "shih-fak" call.

Sifakas also rely heavily on scent for communication. Males typically scent-mark using a gland in their throats, which they will rub back and forth along branches. Females are more likely to scent-mark with anogenital glands. It is not entirely clear what information is conveyed in these scents, beyond the demarcation of territory.

A study of sifaka vocalizations found that roaring barks are associated with anti-raptor responses in which the Coquerel's sifakas looked up and climbed down.  The "tchi-fak" vocalizations was associated with anti-terrestrial responses in which the sifakas looked down and climbed up.  And the meaning of growls seemed to vary by population, where a population subject to significant raptor predation associated the growls with anti-raptor responses, but another population associated growls with mild disturbance.

Economic importance
Coquerel's sifakas, like many lemurs, have been studied to help scientists learn about the evolutionary history of primates, including