# Scratch (programming language)

Scratch is a high-level block-based visual programming language and website aimed primarily at children as an educational tool, with a target audience of ages 8 to 16. Users on the site, called Scratchers, can create projects on the website using a block-like interface. Projects can be exported to standalone HTML5, Android apps, Bundle (macOS) and EXE files using external tools. Scratch was conceived and designed through collaborative National Science Foundation grants awarded to Mitchell Resnick and Yasmin Kafai. The service is developed by the MIT Media Lab, and has been translated into 70+ languages, and is used in most parts of the world. Scratch is taught and used in after-school centers, schools, and colleges, as well as other public knowledge institutions. As of 15 February 2023, community statistics on the language's official website show more than 123 million projects shared by over 103 million users, over 804 million total projects ever created (including unshared projects), and more than 95 million monthly website visits.

Scratch takes its name from a technique used by disk jockeys called "scratching", where vinyl records are clipped together and manipulated on a turntable to produce different sound effects and music. Like scratching, the website lets users mix together different media (including graphics, sound, and other programs) in creative ways by creating and 'remixing' projects, like video games, animations, music, and simulations.

Scratch 3.0

User interface 

The Scratch interface is divided into three main sections: a stage area, block palette, and a coding area to place and arrange the blocks into scripts that can be run by pressing the green flag or clicking on the code itself. Users may also create their own code blocks and they will appear in "My Blocks".

The stage area features the results (e.g., animations, turtle graphics, either in a small or normal size, with a full-screen option also available) and all sprites' thumbnails being listed in the bottom area. The stage uses x and y coordinates, with 0,0 being the stage center.

With a sprite selected at the bottom of the staging area, blocks of commands can be applied to it by dragging them from the block palette into the coding area. The Costumes tab allows users to change the look of the sprite with a vector and bitmap editor in order to create various effects, including animation. The Sounds tab allows attaching sounds and music to a sprite.

When creating sprites and also backgrounds, users can draw their own sprite manually, choose a Sprite from the library, or upload an image.

The table below shows the categories of the programming blocks:

Offline editing 
An offline "Desktop Editor" for Scratch 3.0 is available for Microsoft Windows 10 and above in the Microsoft Store, Apple's macOS, ChromeOS, and Android; this allows the creation and playing of Scratch programs offline. The offline editor can also be downloaded in previous versions, such as Scratch 2.0 and Scratch 1.4 (an archive of older versions is found here).

Extensions 
In Scratch, extensions add extra blocks and features that can be used in projects. In Scratch 2.0, the extensions were all hardware-based. Software-based extensions were added in Scratch 3.0, such as text-to-speech voices, along with some new hardware-based extensions like the micro:bit. The extensions are listed below.

Physical 
 LEGO Mindstorms EV3 – Control motors and receive sensor data from the Lego Mindstorms EV3
 Makey Makey – Use Makey Makey to control projects
 LEGO Education WeDo 2.0 – control motors and receive sensor data from the Lego WeDo
 micro:bit – Use of a micro:bit to control projects
 LEGO BOOST – Bring robotic creations to life
 Go Direct Force & Acceleration – Sense pull, push, motion, and spin

Digital 
Many of the digital extensions in Scratch 3.0 used to be regular block categories that were moved to the extensions section to reduce clutter. These include:
 Music – Play digital instruments (drums, trumpets, violins, pianos, and more)
 Pen – Draw on the Stage with a variety of thicknesses and color
 Video Sensing – Detect motion with the camera

New digital extensions have also been added in collaborations with commercial companies. These include:
 Text to Speech – Converts words in a text into voice output (variety of voices, supplied by Amazon)
 Translate – Uses Google Translate to translate text from one language into a variety of other languages, including Arabic, Chinese, Dutch, English, French, Greek, Norwegian, and Japanese

Scratch Lab 
The Scratch Lab displays experiments from the Scratch Team, intended to explore whether new features may be added to the full website in the future. Experimental features currently under development include:
 Video Sprites – Fill sprites with live video.
 Face Sensing – Make animated costumes and games that interact with your face.
 Animated Text – Bring words to life with colors, fonts, and animations.

Users can also create their own extensions for Scratch 3.0 using JavaScript. Although the intention for Scratch 3.0 was to allow unofficial JavaScript extensions, it was abandoned due to moderation risks. As a result, several modifications of the Scratch Engine allow JavaScript extensions to be added.

Code base 
Scratch 3.0 is a completely new JavaScript-based codebase made up of multiple components such as "Scratch-GUI," now based on a library from Blockly, "Scratch-VM," which interprets code, and "Scratch-Render," the rendering engine. The Scratch Blocks are made using Blockly.

A paper published in 2019 by NYU argues and illustrates, for coding music with Scratch, "that the music and sound blocks as currently implemented in Scratch may limit and frustrate meaningful music-making for children, the core user base for Scratch."

Community of users 

Scratch is used in many different settings: schools, museums, libraries, community centers, and homes. Scratch is designed primarily for users aged 8–16, but it is used by all ages and has a sizeable adult user base as of 2009. This wide outreach has created many surrounding communities, both physical and digital. In April 2020, the Tiobe ranking of the world's programming languages included Scratch in the top 20. According to Tiobe, there are 50 million projects written in Scratch, and every month one million new projects are added.

Educational users 
Scratch is used as the introductory language because the creation of interesting programs is relatively easy, and skills learned can be applied to other programming languages such as Python and Java.
 
Scratch is not exclusively for creating games. With the provided visuals, programmers can create animations, text, stories, music, and more. There are already many programs that students can use to learn topics in math, history, and even photography. Scratch allows teachers to create conceptual and visual lessons and science lab assignments with animations that help visualize difficult concepts. Within the social sciences, instructors can create quizzes, games, and tutorials with interactive elements. Using Scratch allows young people to understand the logic of programming and how to creatively build and collaborate.

Scratch is taught to more than 800 schools and 70 colleges of DAV organization in India and across the world.

In higher education, Scratch is used in the first week of Harvard University's CS50 introductory computer science course.

Online community 

Users of Scratch are called 'Scratchers'. Scratchers have the capability to share their projects and get feedback. Projects can be uploaded directly from the development environment to the Scratch website and any member of the community can download the full source code to study or to remix into new projects. Scratchers can also create project studios, comment, favorite, and "love" others' projects, follow other members to see their projects and activity, and share ideas. Projects range from games and animations to practical tools. Additionally, to encourage the creation and sharing amongst users, the website frequently establishes "Scratch Design Studio" challenges.

The MIT Scratch Team works to ensure that this community maintains a friendly and respectful environment for all people.

Educators have their own online community called ScratchEd, developed and supported by the Harvard Graduate School of Education. In this community, Scratch educators share stories, exchange resources, and ask questions.

Scratch Wiki 
The Scratch Wiki is a support resource for Scratch and information about its website, history, and phenomena surrounding it. Although supported by the Scratch Team (the developers of Scratch), it is primarily written by Scratch users (Scratchers) and is hosted independently of the main Scratch website. There are other wikis in languages besides English available on the Scratch Wiki base domain.

Developers 
Both Scratch 2.0 and Scratch 3.0's GUIs are open source on GitHub, and develope