# Genodermatosis

Genodermatosis is a hereditary skin disease with three inherited modes including single gene inheritance, multiple gene inheritance and chromosome inheritance. There are many different types of genodermatosis, the prevalence of genodermatosis ranges from 1 per 6000 people to 1 per 500,000 people. Genodermatosis has influence on the texture, color and structure of skin cuticle and connective tissue, specific lesion site and clinical manifestations on the body vary depending on the type. In the spite of the variety and complexity of genodermatosis, there are still some common methods that can help people diagnose. After diagnosis, different types of genodermatosis require different levels of therapy including interventions, nursing interventions and treatments. Among that, research of therapy for some new, complex and rare types are still in the developing stage. The impact of genodermatosis not only can be seen in body but also can be seen in all aspects of patients' life, including but not limited to psychological, family life, economic conditions and social activities. Accordingly, the patients need treatment, support and help in these areas.

Hereditary modes 
Genodermatosis is inherited in three modes: single gene inheritance, multiple gene inheritance and chromosome inheritance.

Single gene (monogenic) 
Single-gene inheritance of genodermatosis refers to the inheritance of a skin disease caused by one genetic abnormality and single gene heredity is divided into four kinds mainly.

Autosomal dominant inheritance 
The first kind is autosomal dominant inheritance, in this kind of inheritance, patients can be of any sex and their genodermatosis are often inherited from one of the parents. Cases of skin disease that may be inherited in this kind of mode include epidermolysis bullosa simplex (EBS), acute intermittent porphyria, white sponge nevus, ichthyosis, epidermolytic palmoplantar keratoderma, hereditary benign intraepithelial dyskeratosis and so on.

Autosomal recessive inheritance 
The second kind is autosomal recessive inheritance, in this kind of inheritance, patients can be of any sex and inbreeding tends to lead to this inheritance. Cases of skin disease that may be inherited in this kind of mode include epidermolysis bullosa, xeroderma pigmentosum, acrodermatitis enteropathica, ichthyosis and so on.

X-linked dominant inheritance 
The third kind is X-linked dominant inheritance, in this kind of inheritance, patients can be of any sex. Male patients can pass the disease on to their sons and the chances of female patients passing it to their daughters or sons are almost equal. Cases of skin disease that may be inherited in this kind of mode include incontinentia pigmenti, focal dermal hypoplasia and so on.

X-linked recessive inheritance 
The last kind is X-linked recessive inheritance, in this kind of inheritance, patients can be of any sex and the prevalence in men is higher than that in women. Male patients cannot pass the disease on to their sons. Cases of skin disease that may be inherited in this kind of mode include fabry disease, anhidrotic ectodermal dysplasia, dyskeratosis congenita and so on.

Multiple gene (polygenic) 
Multiple-gene inheritance of genodermatosis refers to the inheritance of a skin disease caused by multiple genetic abnormalities. Cases of skin disease that may be inherited in this mode include vitiligo, psoriasis, pemphigus vulgaris, systemic lupus erythematosus and so on.

Chromosome 

Chromosome inheritance of genodermatosis refers to the inheritance of a skin disease caused by chromosome abnormality.

The same disease can be inherited in different modes. For instance, epidermolysis bullosa can be inherited in the mode of autosomal dominant or in the mode of autosomal recessive.

Types 

Genodermatosis has many types, many of which are rare.

Common types

Ichthyosis 
Ichthyosis refers mainly to ichthyosis vulgaris, a common genodermatosis, people with this disease have a fishy, dry skin, which usually appears in early childhood and may disappear in adulthood. The prevalence of ichthyosis vulgaris is high, affecting almost 1 per 250 people. There are also rare types of ichthyosis, such as epidermolytic hyperkeratosis, harlequin ichthyosis and so on.

Rare types

Michelin tyre baby syndrome 
Michelin tyre baby syndrome is a rare genodermatosis that occurs at birth, the skin of the patients is stacked symmetrically in layers like the image of the Michelin tyre's mascot, which is also how this disease got its name.

Epidermolysis bullosa 
Epidermolysis bullosa is a rare type of genodermatosis, people with this disease have blisters on their skin and this disease is never completely cured for a lifetime. Epidermolysis bullosa is mainly subdivided into four types: dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa, epidermolysis bullosa simplex, junctional epidermolysis bullosa and kindler syndrome. Almost 1 in 50,000 people has epidermolysis bullosa.

Pachyonychia congenita 

Pachyonychia congenita is a rare type of genodermatosis, its clinical manifestations are abnormal enlargement of fingernails or toenails, excessive or poor palmoplantar keratinization, excessive sweating in the palmar or the plantar. Between 5000 and 10000 people in the world have pachyonychia congenita.

Epidermolytic palmoplantar keratoderma 
Epidermolytic palmoplantar keratoderma often appears at birth and it is almost impossible to be cured completely. The clinical manifestations of this disease include excessive palmoplantar keratinization, the palmar or plantar become yellow divergently with around the edges or abnormally excessive sweating and clinical manifestation appear in a symmetrical form on the body.

Hereditary benign intraepithelial dyskeratosis 
Hereditary benign intraepithelial dyskeratosis is a rare type of genodermatosis that may occur in infancy and early childhood, its symptoms often appear in the patients' eyes and mouths. The patients' eyes appear red due to the dilatation of superficial vessels and appearance of conjunctival plaques in their eyes, patients may have variable-size, thick, soft and white plaques in their mouth. Spring is an acute episode of symptoms, such as itching, erythema, photophobia and so on.

Epidermolytic hyperkeratosis 
Epidermolytic hyperkeratosis is a rare genodermatosis which is also referred to as disorder of cornification type 3 and bullous congenital ichthyosiform erthroderma, affecting almost 1 per 200,000 - 300,000 people. They also stated that its clinical manifestations often begin at birth with large rashes all over the body, and the patients' skin will be so sensitive that even mild wounds can cause blisters and peeling. Potential complications of this disease include electrolyte disturbances, sepsis and so on.

Hidrotic ectodermal dysplasia 
Hidrotic ectodermal dysplasia is a rare genodermatosis which is also known as Clouston syndrome. The patients' nails may be too thick, too brittle, too bent or have different colors, their hair also appear mottled, sparse and other abnormalities. These symptoms often begin when the patient is an infant.

Diagnostic methods 
Genodermatosis is often rare and varied, but diagnostic methods have some commonalities, the diagnosis of rare genodermatosis is basically divided into six steps: 1. Each genodermatosis has different clinical manifestations. People can observe the special features and changes of the skin to judge whether they are sick or not. Features will be different in different age groups, so it is necessary to observe and record the special features of the skin in each age group; 2. Genodermatosis is a hereditary disease, knowing as much as possible about a detailed and complete family history helps in screening and diagnosis; 3. People can do a detailed physical examination to observe the special features and manifestations of other organs besides skin. It can help to narrow down the disease and make a definitive diagnosis; 4. People can carry out laboratory tests such as skin biopsies with high-tech and precise scientific instruments to have further results; 5. Different genodermatosis and their clinical manifestations may be caused by abnormalities in the same gene, and abnormalities in different genes may also lead to the same clinical manifestations. In order to have a definitive diagnosis or identify complex and specific types of genodermatosis, genotype–phenotype correlation needs attention; 6. If the above five steps fails to help people who suspected of having a genodermatosis to obtain the diagnosis result, they should keep all their information such as the diagnosis record and the clinical manifestations at different stages, and continue to record the changes of the body, waiting with a positive attitude, the future medicine may give the answer.

Therapy 
The therapy of genodermatosis not only needs to take care of patients' skin, reduce their pain and prevent complications, but also needs to carry out mental support for p