# New York City Department of Sanitation

The New York City Department of Sanitation (DSNY) is the department of the government of New York City responsible for garbage collection, recycling collection, street cleaning, and snow removal. The DSNY is the primary operator of the New York City waste management system.

The DSNY motto "New York's Strongest" was coined by Harry Nespoli, long-time President of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters Local 831, to describe the Department of Sanitation's football team in the late 1970s to early 1980s. The section of Worth Street between Centre and Baxter Streets in Manhattan is named "Avenue of the Strongest" in their honor.

History
Prior to 1881, a Street Cleaning Bureau functioned under the New York City Police Department. However, streets were filthy, filled with mud, rubbish, ash, and horse urine and manure. On May 29, 1881, all the bureau's books and papers were transferred from the police headquarters in anticipation of the passage of a law creating a new administrative structure and the separate Department of Street Cleaning. On May 30, the bill enacting the Department of Street Cleaning was signed by Governor of New York Alonzo B. Cornell. However, Henry H. Gorringe, who had been asked to serve as the inaugural commissioner by Mayor William R. Grace, had been hoping for a different bill and declined the position, stating that it was a "delusion and snare from beginning to end", and that he would have had to answer to "five different areas of city government – the Mayoralty, the Board of Estimate and Apportionment, the Board of Health, the Police Board, and the Department of Street Cleaning," with the latter having the least effective power. Instead, several days later, James S. Coleman became the first commissioner, and held the position for eight years.

In 1894, Col. George E. Waring, Jr. became commissioner, and he was credited with substantially cleaning the streets, as well as pioneering recycling, street sweeping, and the establishment of a uniformed cleaning and collection force. The department's name was changed to the Department of Sanitation in 1929.

 1980: NYC won the right to staff sanitation trucks with a crew of two, instead of three.
 1986: NYC hired two female sanitation workers. Initially they did only street-sweeping. Going with sanitation trucks began the following year.
 2003: Mayor Michael Bloomberg laid off 515 sanitation workers while seeking to "increase the length of runs by sanitation trucks – more trash per truck would lower costs"
 2009: NYC introduced use of hybrid-electric sanitation-pickup vehicles. Like those then in use, staff crew were numbered at two, not three as had been the case until 1980.

As of 2015, the department had more than 9,700 employees, handled more than 3.2 million tons of refuse every year, and recycled more than 600,000 tons of waste material annually. Sanitation Commissioner Kathryn Garcia resigned in September 2020 to consider running for mayor of New York City, and criticized what she termed the "unconscionable" $100 million budget cuts of Mayor Bill DiBlasio in her resignation letter. Those budget cuts, among other things, forced a 60% reduction in pickups from public trash baskets.

Strikes
1968: Sanitation workers had been without a contract for six months when they rejected Mayor John Lindsay's proposal and went on strike on February 2. 7,000 sanitation workers marched to City Hall Park to demand higher pay and increased benefits. President John DeLury of the Uniformed Sanitationmen's Association is quoted saying, "No contract, no work!" to the crowd. Mayor Lindsay referred to the strike as illegal, because it was in violation of the Taylor Law, which passed that previous year. As the garbage on the streets of New York City accumulated to over 100,000 tons, negotiations between Lindsay and union leaders went poorly. Finally, on February 10, New York Governor Nelson Rockefeller stepped in, offering a $425 wage increase, double-time pay for working on Sundays, and a 2.5 percent increase in pension funds, which the workers agreed to and ended the strike.
1975: A wildcat strike took place in 1975 from July 2 to 4 in the midst of a budget crisis for New York City before workers returned to work under the provision that they would put up their own money to guarantee payroll if the city legislation could not get the tax increase necessary.
1981: Workers went on strike just after midnight on December 1 to demand a wage increase and remained out until December 17.

Organization

The New York City Department of Sanitation is the largest sanitation department in the world, with 7,201 uniformed sanitation workers and supervisors, 2,041 civilian workers, 2,230 general collection trucks, 275 specialized collection trucks, 450 street sweepers, 365 snowplows, 298 front end loaders, and 2,360 support vehicles. It handles over 12,000 tons of residential and institutional refuse and recyclables a day. It has a uniformed force of unionized sanitation workers (Local 831 USA of the Teamsters). Its regulations are compiled in Title 16 of the New York City Rules.

There are nine uniformed titles in the New York City Department of Sanitation. From highest to lowest, the uniformed titles are described by Civil Service Title and/or Rank;

BCC: Bureau of Cleaning and Collection 
The Bureau of Cleaning and Collection is responsible for collecting recycling and garbage, cleaning streets and vacant lots, and clearing streets of snow and ice. BCC assigns personnel and equipment to standard routes while managing the weekly allocation of personnel to address litter and illegal dumping.

The Cleaning Office oversees the removal of litter and debris from city streets, collects material for recycling and garbage from public litter bins and coordinates with Derelict Vehicle Operations to remove abandoned vehicles. The Lot Cleaning Unit cleans vacant lots and the areas around them, and around city-owned buildings in order to meet the city's Health Code standards.

The Collection Office oversees regularly scheduled recycling and garbage collection services to the city's residential households, public schools, public buildings, and many large institutions

SWM: Solid Waste Management 
The Solid Waste Management Bureau is responsible for the disposal of all municipal solid waste and recyclables managed by DSNY, and for long-term waste export programs. The bureau consists of Solid Waste Management Engineering, the Export Contract Management Unit, marine and land-based transfer stations, and the Fresh Kills landfill and long-term export programs.

The Export Contract Management Unit handles DSNY contracts with private vendors who operate municipal solid waste disposal facilities, including transfer stations and waste-to-energy plants. DSNY also has city-owned and operated transfer stations.

Solid Waste Management Engineering is principally responsible for the design, construction, closure and post-closure care, and end-use development of the 2,200-acre Fresh Kills landfill. It also develops and implements long-term waste export programs and the city's Comprehensive Solid Waste Management Plan for 2006–2025 and the Solid Waste Management Plan Final Environmental Impact Statement.

BIT: Bureau of Information Technology  
The Bureau of Information Technology manages all aspects of computing and technology for DSNY, including networks, databases, software, devices, and technical support.

The bureau designed the Sanitation Management Analysis and Resource Tracking (SMART) system, a web-based mobile system that provides DSNY field forces with digital operations, scheduling, and reporting technology, and gives DSNY management instant access to real-time operational information. It is integrated with citywide systems such as GIS mapping services, fleet management, building management, human resources, and purchasing and financial applications.

BOO: Bureau Operations Office  
The Bureau Operations Office is DSNY's primary communications center, handling interagency and intra-agency communications. To ensure efficient communications, the radio room maintains and monitors citywide radio communications, equipment repair, upgrades, maintenance, and inventory.

The Bureau oversees all DSNY facilities, administers the expense budget, and controls fuel and lubricant inventories, as well as tools and supplies for citywide use. It also plans and directs citywide snow operations, including staffing plans, maintaining the fleet of snow removal equipment, and maintaining an inventory of salt and calcium chloride to cover the needs of the snow season.

The Bureau's Equipment and Facilities Unit works closely with Support Services to make sure that DSNY facilities receive constant monitoring, repairs, renovation, and emergency intervention. The Bureau works closely with the Real Estate Division to properly plan for new facilities from an operational standpoint.

OMD: Operations Management Division 
The Operations Manag