# List of the Inheritance Cycle characters

This is a list of key characters in The Inheritance Cycle, a fantasy adventure series by Christopher Paolini. The series contains several hundred characters, while the following list contains only the most frequently mentioned.

Many of the names Paolini has used originate from Old Norse, German, Old English, and Russian sources, as well as the invented languages. With the exception of Angela, the characters' personalities are entirely imagined and not based on actual people. Some characters, like the titular character Eragon were developed before the series was written, while others (such as Angela) were added on an as-needed basis.

Major characters
 Eragon Bromsson – the human son of Brom and Selena, although Eragon's true relationship to Brom is not revealed until the third novel. Eragon is the cousin of Roran Garrowsson and half-brother of Murtagh. Until the age of fifteen, he was raised by his uncle Garrow. After the dragon Saphira hatches for him, he travels to the Varden, where he learns of the evils done by Galbatorix and determines to end the king's rule. He has romantic feelings for the elf Arya, but the two never become a couple as he leaves Alagaësia permanently at the end of the final novel. He is also known as Eragon Bromsson, Argetlam, Shur'tugal, Shadeslayer, Firesword, and Kingkiller.
Eragon has dark brown eyes and hair and fights with bow and arrow or a sword, especially the sword Brisingr, crafted for him by the master smith Rhunön. After a magic ceremony in the second novel, Eragon takes on the physical characteristics of an elf, although he retains some aspects of his human body (such as the ability to grow a beard). He is a skilled magician and second to only Murtagh in his skill with the sword.
The author originally intended Eragon's character serve in an autobiographical capacity. However, Paolini states, "Eragon has done many things that I haven’t—such as ride a dragon, fight monsters, and use magic—and these experiences have made him a different person than me. Eragon is now his own person, similar to me in some respects, but possessing a unique history, likes, dislikes, friends, and family." Eragon was the first character developed by Paolini, and the author's outline of how the character would develop drove the novels' storyline. The name "Eragon" is an aptronym based on the word "dragon", and a play on the phrase "an era gone".
Eragon was portrayed by Edward Speleers in the film adaptation of Eragon.
Saphira Bjartskular ("Brightscales") – a female blue dragon who hatches from an egg stolen from Galbatorix by Brom and Jeod. She is the last living female dragon in all of Alagaësia, although more dragon eggs are found at the end of the final novel. Saphira is wise, fearless, protective of Eragon, and somewhat vain. She is also skilled at aerial acrobatics. Her sire was Iormûngr, a bonded dragon, and her dam was Vervanda, a wild dragon. At the end of Inheritance she mates with Fírnen before leaving Alagaësia with Eragon.
Saphira's name is derived from the word "sapphire", and as such serves as an aptronym describing her coloration (blue being Paolini's favorite color). She was voiced by Rachel Weisz in the film.
Arya Dröttningu – a female elf and is the only daughter of King Evandar and Queen Islanzadí. Arya has served as courier of Saphira's egg and the elves' ambassador to the Varden. She becomes queen of the elves after the death of her mother, as well as a dragon rider (bonded to Fírnen), at the end of the final book. She is also known as Arya Svit-kona and Arya Shadeslayer. Eragon rescues her in the first novel when she is being held captive by Durza, a shade. When Eragon first pursues her romantically, she rebuffs his advances, telling him she had recently lost a close friend, Fäolin, and that any relationship would be unwise because of their respective responsibilities and age differences. She holds traditional human gender roles in disdain. At the end of the final novel, she is willing to consider Eragon as a romantic partner, but he leaves before they can begin a relationship. She shows this by telling her true name to Eragon, which she refused to do before.
Arya is over 100 years old. She is beautiful, wise, and possesses inhuman speed, strength, grace, and superior fighting and magical skills (like most elves). She has long black hair, slanted cat-like green eyes, and is very tall.
She was portrayed by Sienna Guillory in the film.
Murtagh Morzansson – the human son of Morzan and Selena, and Eragon's half-brother. Eragon first meets him in Eragon and travels with him to the Varden, where he is mistrusted for being Morzan's son. In Eldest, Murtagh is kidnapped by the Twins and forced to serve Galbatorix after the dragon Thorn hatches for him. He is an exceptionally skilled swordsman, and has enhanced strength and magic from Galbatorix, as well as Eldunarí (the source of a dragon's being and life force) to enhance his power. Due to his difficult childhood, he has little empathy for others. He has romantic feelings for Nasuada, but does not pursue a relationship as he feels he can never be accepted by society, even after helping to defeat Galbatorix. His name is entirely the author's invention.

Murtagh was played by Garrett Hedlund in the film.

  Galbatorix – the human king and tyrant of the Empire. When his first dragon, Jarnunvösk was killed by Urgals, Galbatorix began a quest for revenge against the Riders which ultimately resulted in their extinction and his rise to power in the human kingdom. He stole a dragon hatchling named Shruikan and bound their minds in a crude approximation of a Rider's bond. He has derived incredible magical strength from the captured souls of dead dragons, the Eldunarí. He is at least 120 years old. He is killed in the final novel. Galbatorix's name means "Big King" in Celtic.

He was played by John Malkovich in the film adaptation of Eragon.
Nasuada – the daughter of Ajihad and Nadara, human members of the Wandering Tribes. Upon her father's death at the beginning of Eldest, Nasuada becomes leader of the Varden. She is Eragon's liegelord. She is very cunning and trusted by both her people and Eragon, which leads her to become queen of the Empire in Inheritance.
Nasuada was played by Caroline Chikezie in the film version of Eragon.
Roran Garrowsson (Stronghammer) – Eragon's cousin and father of Ismira, who grew up with him in Carvahall with Eragon. Roran has an almost obsession with his eventual-wife, Katrina, which leads him to travel with the whole of Carvahall to join the Varden. He becomes an excellent motivational speaker as a result. Although he at first resents his cousin for inciting war and bringing about Garrow's death, the two make up and become quite close.
Roran was played by Chris Egan in the film Eragon.
Orik Thrifksson (also known as Grimstborith Orik and King Orik) – a dwarf, a member of the clan Dûrgrimst Ingeitum, and the nephew of King Hrothgar. He becomes king (Grimstnzborith) and leader (Grimstborith) of Ingeitum after Hrothgar's death. Orik is a smith, a warrior, and Eragon's guide. He adopts Eragon into his clan in Eldest. Orik later marries Hvedra, the Grimstcarvlorss of Ingeitum.

Humans
Brom – Eragon's father and first mentor. He is known for his intelligence and craftiness, surviving long after his dragon's death despite being hunted by Galbatorix (more than 100 years). Brom was the co-founder of the Varden. He had white hair and a long white beard, carried Morzan's sword Zar'roc, and could work basic magic. He was gruff yet kind towards Eragon. He is  revealed to be a former Dragon Rider (bonded to the first Saphira) as he lays dying at the Ra'zac's hand in Eragon.
Brom was played by Jeremy Irons in the film adaption of Eragon.
King Orrin – the king of Surda, a minor human empire not yet ruled by Galbatorix. Orrin's royal line comes from the Broddring Kingdom, the human's first empire. He is an enthusiastic scientist, viewed by Nasuada as somewhat childish and undisciplined. Orrin secretly supports the Varden, and he allows them to move to his country in Eldest. He often comes into conflict with Nasuada when she encroaches on what he believes to be his rightful power, and develops a drinking problem in the final novel which she cites as a reason he should not replace Galbatorix.
Irwin is the Prime Minister of Surda and opposes King Orrin's open support of the Varden.
Elva – an orphaned baby whom Eragon attempts to bless in the first novel. From his missworded "blessing" Elva is compelled to protect other people from misfortune or danger. During the battle against Galbatorix, he mutes her and Elva therefore is of no help. However, previous to the battle she proves useful and helps Eragon, Arya, Saphira, and their spellcasters navigate Galbatorix's traps leading up to the throne room. Eragon tried to remove the curse, but failed. As a result, Elva is not forced to help others, but she can still sense their pain.
Ajihad* – leader of the V