# List of people from Lawrence, Kansas

This article is a list of notable people who were born in and/or have lived in Lawrence, Kansas.  Alumni of University of Kansas or Haskell Indian Nations University, including athletes and coaches, that are not originally from Lawrence should not be included in this list, instead, they should be listed in List of University of Kansas people.  This includes faculty and coaches who stayed in Lawrence after retirement.

A
The Appleseed Cast, band
Karole Armitage, choreographer

B
Martha Bablitch, judge
Leo Beuerman, pencil salesman, subject of a 1969 short film nominated for an Academy Award
Amani Bledsoe, professional football player 
David Booth, entrepreneur
Corinne Brinkerhoff, television producer and writer
Erin Brockovich, environmental activist
George Brown, politician
William Burroughs, author
Sarah Buxton, singer

C
Dorothy Canfield Fisher, author
Danny Carey, musician, drummer for Tool
Judge Louis Carpenter, judge and lawyer, murdered in Lawrence Massacre on August 21, 1863
Cattle Annie, bandit born in Lawrence in 1882
Paul Coker Jr., illustrator, Mad Magazine and Rankin-Bass

D
Karen Dalton, musician
George Docking, politician
Robert Docking, politician

E
Bart D. Ehrman, scholar, author
Loren Eiseley, anthropologist, author
Michael S. Engel, scholar, paleontologist, entomologist
Ronald Evans, NASA astronaut (Pathfinder to the Stars)

F
 Mike Finnigan, musician
 Marci Francisco, politician
 Thomas Frank, author

G
Robert L. Gernon, jurist
The Get Up Kids, rock band
Edward C. Gleed, U.S. Army Air Force officer with the famed Buffalo Soldiers/9th Cavalry Regiment (United States) and Tuskegee Airmen

H
John Hadl, NCAA and NFL football quarterback, College Football Hall of Fame
William A. Harris, U.S. Senator
Herk Harvey, actor, director, producer, writer
John G. Haskell, architect of numerous Lawrence buildings as well as the Kansas State Capitol
Bobby Henrich, MLB player
Stan Herd, crop artist
Ralph Houk, MLB pitcher and manager
Henry Salem Hubbell, American Impressionist painter
Isaac F. Hughes, City Council member in Lawrence and in Los Angeles, California
Langston Hughes, poet and author
Kelley Hunt, blues singer, pianist, songwriter

J
Bill James, baseball statistician and author
Steve Jeltz, professional baseball player 
Patty Jenkins, film writer and director

K
Tom Keegan, sportswriter
Maggie Koerth-Baker, science journalist and blogger

L
Jon Lemmon, footballer

M
Deane Waldo Malott, university president
Danny Manning, professional basketball player
Mates of State, rock band
Mark Maxey, filmmaker
David McClain, university president
Elmer McCollum, scientist
Minus Story, band
Na Mira, artist
Bryce Montes de Oca, Baseball player for the New York Mets
Jason Moss, musician
Alan Mulally, business executive, CEO of Ford Motor Corporation

N
 Bill Nieder, track and field athlete (shot put), won silver medal at 1956 Summer Olympics and gold in 1960 Summer Olympics, set three shot put world records

O
Marcus Oliveria, boxer

P
Sara Paretsky, novelist
Paw, rock band
Ryan Pope, musician (The Get Up Kids)
Matthew Pryor, musician (The Get Up Kids)

R
 Charles L. Robinson, first governor of Kansas
 Sara Tappan Doolittle Robinson, writer, historian, First Lady of Kansas

S
Kliph Scurlock, drummer of The Flaming Lips
Stanley Sheldon, bass player for Peter Frampton
Stephen Six, Attorney General of Kansas'
Split Lip Rayfield, band
Sri Srinivasan, U.S. Federal Judge
 William A. Starrett (1877–1932), builder who constructed the Empire State Building
Robby Steinhardt, violinist, vocalist with band Kansas

T
Solon O. Thacher, judge and politician

W
John Allen Wakefield, political and military leader
George Walker, African-American vaudeville actor
Donald Worster, environmental historian, author
Henry Wright, planner and architect

Y
Jeff Yagher, actor

See also

 List of lists of people from Kansas
 List of University of Kansas people
 List of Haskell Indian Nations Fighting Indians head football coaches
 List of Kansas Jayhawks head football coaches

References

Further reading

Lawrence, Kansas
Lawrence