# Joseph Glasco

Joseph Glasco (January 19, 1925 – May 31, 1996) was an American painter, draftsman and sculptor. He is most known for his early figurative drawings and paintings and in later years for deconstructing the figure to develop his non-objective paintings building on abstraction of the 1950s.

During his early years in New York, Alfonso Ossorio, Jackson Pollock, Lee Krasner and others were friends and influences.  Later in his life, Glasco befriended younger artists including Julian Schnabel and George Condo.

Formative years (1925–1949) 
Joseph Glasco was born in Pauls Valley, Oklahoma in 1925 and grew up in Tyler, Texas. His parents were Lowell and Pauline Glasco. He had three brothers, Gregory, Gordon, Michael, and two sisters, Anne Brawley and Marion Chambers (married to oil executive C. Fred Chambers).

He was sent to boarding school in St. Louis where he pursued his interest in art and subsequently attended the University of Texas at Austin.  He was drafted by the United States Army where he served in the European theatre during World War II.  Glasco became a decorated soldier from his service as a Private first class in Patton's 3rd Army in the Battle of the Bulge where he earned a Bronze Star Medal.  While waiting for his orders to return to the U.S. after VE Day, Glasco was assigned to Portsmouth Art School in Bristol, England, to study art. This enabled him to visit London and its theaters frequently.  After Glasco’s military orders arrived, he returned to Texas to seek employment.

Glasco lived and worked in Dallas for a time and drafted advertisements for the Dreyfuss & Son Department Store.  When he realized advertising did not suit his interests, Glasco moved to Los Angeles to continue his art studies. There he met and briefly studied with Rico Lebrun at the Jeppson Art Institute.  He then later studied at the School of Painting and Sculpture in San Miguel de Allende, Mexico founded by the Peruvian intellectual and artist Felipe Cassio del Pomar and the American Stirling Dickinson the director of artistic studies.  In San Miguel de Allende, Glasco also became acquainted with Jesús Guerrero Galván as well as Rufino Tamayo and his wife.

New York City (1949-1960) 

In 1949, Glasco arrived in New York City and attended the Art Students League of New York where he studied with George Grosz. As one of the most original young Americans, Glasco was soon recognized as a skilled draftsman and painter with a unique vision.

Shortly after Glasco arrived in New York City, he met  Alfonso A. Ossorio, an artist and wealthy patron of the arts who introduced Glasco to his circle of artist friends including Jackson Pollock, Lee Krasner, Willem de Kooning, Jean Dubuffet, and Clyfford Still.  He was influenced by his friendship with Jackson Pollock and Alfonso A. Ossorio as well as the artwork of Dubuffet and the art theory of Hans Hofmann.

At the age of twenty-five, Glasco had his first one-man show at New York’s prestigious Perls Gallery. After his successful exhibition at Perls, Glasco became the youngest artist whose work “Big Sitting Cat” was purchased for the permanent collection of The Museum of Modern Art when the museum acquired his drawing in 1949.  The Metropolitan Museum of Art also acquired one of Glasco’s 1949 drawings and his career as a New York artist was launched.  When Perls closed, Glasco moved to the Catherine Viviano Gallery, which also managed the estate of Max Beckmann and several other important European and American artists.   Glasco met the well-known Picasso collector Stanley J. Seeger at the Catherine Viviano Gallery.  Seeger became one of Glasco’s most important patrons and the two remained friends until his death. Another important collector of Glasco’s paintings and sculptures was Joseph Hirshhorn. The Smithsonian Institution established the Joseph H. Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden in Washington, D.C. in 1966 to hold the collection of over 6,000 works including Glasco’s paintings and sculptures.  Pulitzer Prizing winning poet and short story writer, Elizabeth Bishop also collected Glasco’s early drawings. Glasco would remain with the Catherine Viviano Gallery until the gallery closed in 1970.

Glasco often credited his conversations about painting with Jackson Pollock as critical to how he thought about his own art over the entire arc of his career. But while Pollock had been a critical influence on Glasco during his nascent years in New York, Glasco’s early paintings stood apart from the Abstract Expressionist movement which was gaining momentum and attracting national and even international recognition.  Instead, as Abstract Expressionism was exploding around him, Glasco’s remained steadfast with work that was distinctly figurative, densely worked, and formal in style.   

While his conversations with Pollock remained important to Glasco throughout his lifetime, it was, in fact, Ossorio and Dubuffet and not Pollock who likely provided the early catalyst for change in Glasco’s work as it became more textural and abstract.

MOMA's 'Fifteen Americans' Exhibition 

Glasco’s early recognition in New York created many opportunities for the young artist. In addition to being invited to participate in the Whitney Museum of American Art’s annual exhibition in 1952,  Glasco was the youngest artist selected by Dorothy Miller for her landmark exhibition titled Fifteen Americans, part of her groundbreaking landmark series The Americans exhibitions.  In addition to works by Glasco, The Fifteen Americans exhibition also included works by William Baziotes, Edward Corbett, Edwin Dickinson, Herbert Ferber, Herbert Katzman, Frederick Kiesler, Irving Kreisberg, Richard Lippold, Jackson Pollock, Herman Rose, Mark Rothko, Clyfford Still, Bradley Tomlin and Thomas Wilfred.

1962–1975 
Glasco’s peripatetic nature and restless soul demanded he leave New York and travel widely in service to his unique vision.  After living and working in New York City with frequent stays at Ossorio’s well-known East Hampton estate, The Creeks, the artist followed Ossorio’s lead and spent considerable time in Taos, New Mexico with his partner, the author William Goyen.  There, he became known as one of the Taos Moderns and made the acquaintance of Frieda Lawrence (widow of D.H. Lawrence) who would be another pivotal influence on his life and work.  After her death and after a concentrated period creating sculpture in Taos, Glasco decamped again to the East Coast and England where he had made influential acquaintances among the London theater crowd.

It is believed that Glasco may have known gotten to know of Cy Twombly through the artist Afro while Glasco and Afro were in Mykonos in 1961. However, it’s also possible they knew each other earlier through their connection with the Art Students League in New York. Later, Glasco said that he and Twombly saw each every summer in Mykonos for years.

While Glasco’s early work featured highly stylized representational forms, over the next 20 years, his work gradually shifted to a heavily patterned, geometric almost cubist approach to the figure.

Then, in the mid-seventies, Glasco left figurative, surrealist and cubist work behind to explore large abstract paintings.  However, before this stylistic transformation in his art would evolve, Glasco’s restless spirit took him on many sojourns to various places in Europe including Greece and the Canary Islands, and later back to Mexico.

Glasco’s work continued to be exhibited by the Catherine Viviano Gallery and elsewhere across the U.S. while he moved from place to place.  After his extensive travels in Europe, by the early 1970s he found a large, New York-style 19th Century loft in Galveston, Texas which he made his permanent home base.   After 1975, Glasco spent time working primarily in Galveston with repeated and extended stays in Europe and New York.

Late paintings (1975–1996) 
Under the influence of Ossorio, Glasco first explored abstract collage in the early 1960s, but it wasn’t until the mid-1970s his paintings had become completely abstract.  He then began producing intensely colored, all-over abstract paintings of rhythmical, mosaic-styled canvas on canvas paintings in two stages.  He first covered the surface with a gestural layer of paint, and then applied and adhered canvas pieces cut from painted canvases made expressly of random patterns for adding to the works in progress.

For Glasco, this approach to painting was appealing due to the hands-on nature which allowed him the spontaneity he prized. He was particularly fascinated with the process of creating layers of paint and applied canvas creating an uneven, oftentimes rough surface texture.  Glasco was satisfied by the shadows, silhouettes and contours he produced as he broke the surface plane of the canvas with a cut patchwork of painted layers. Glasco discussed his late paintings in a video discussion supported by the Mellon Foundation with Carol Mancusi-Ungaro of The Menil Collection