# Ki Teitzei

Ki Teitzei, Ki Tetzei, Ki Tetse, Ki Thetze, Ki Tese, Ki Tetzey, or Ki Seitzei (—Hebrew for "when you go," the first words in the parashah) is the 49th weekly Torah portion (, parashah) in the annual Jewish cycle of Torah reading and the sixth in the Book of Deuteronomy. It comprises Deuteronomy 21:10–25:19. The parashah sets out a series of miscellaneous laws, mostly governing civil and domestic life, including ordinances regarding a beautiful captive of war, inheritance among the sons of two wives, a wayward son, the corpse of an executed person, found property, coming upon another in distress, rooftop safety, prohibited mixtures, sexual offenses, membership in the congregation, camp hygiene, runaway slaves, prostitution, usury, vows, gleaning, kidnapping, repossession, prompt payment of wages, vicarious liability, flogging, treatment of domestic animals, yibbum ( "levirate marriage"), weights and measures, and wiping out the memory of Amalek.

The parashah is made up of 5,856 Hebrew letters, 1,582 Hebrew words, 110 verses, and 213 lines in a Torah Scroll (, Sefer Torah). Jews generally read the parashah in August or September. Jews also read the part of the parashah about Amalek, Deuteronomy 25:17–19, as the concluding (, maftir) reading on Shabbat Zachor, the special Sabbath immediately before Purim, which commemorates the story of Esther and the Jewish people's victory over Haman's plan to kill the Jews, told in the book of Esther. Esther 3:1 identifies Haman as an Agagite, and thus a descendant of Amalek.

Readings
In traditional Sabbath Torah reading, the parashah is divided into seven readings, or , aliyot. In the Masoretic Text of the Tanakh (Hebrew Bible), Parashah Ki Teitzei has two "open portion" (, petuchah) divisions (roughly equivalent to paragraphs, abbreviated with the Hebrew letter  (peh)). Parashah Ki Teitzei has several further subdivisions, called "closed portions" (, setumah) (abbreviated with the Hebrew letter  (samekh)) within the first open portion. The long first open portion spans nearly the entire parashah, except for the concluding maftir () reading. The short second open portion coincides with maftir reading. Thus, the parashah is nearly one complete whole. Closed portion divisions divide all of the readings, often setting apart separate laws.

First reading—Deuteronomy 21:10–21
In the first reading, Moses directed the Israelites that when they took captives in war, and an Israelite saw among the captives a beautiful woman whom he wanted to marry, the Israelite was to bring her into his house and have her trim her hair, pare her nails, discard her captive's garb, and spend a month lamenting her parents. Thereafter, the Israelite could take her as his wife. But if he found that he no longer wanted her, he had to release her outright, and not sell her as a slave. A closed portion ends here.

In the continuation of the reading, Moses instructed that if a man had two wives, one loved and one unloved, and both bore him sons, but the unloved one bore him his firstborn son, then when he willed his property to his sons, he could not treat the son of the loved wife as firstborn in disregard of the older son of the unloved wife; rather, he was required to accept the firstborn, the son of the unloved one, and allot to him his birthright of a double portion of all that he possessed. A closed portion ends here.

In the continuation of the reading, Moses instructed that if a couple had a wayward and defiant son, who did not obey his father or mother even after they disciplined him, then they were to bring him to the elders of his town and publicly declare their son to be disloyal, defiant, heedless, a glutton, and a drunkard. The men of his town were then to stone him to death. The first reading and a closed portion end here.

Second reading—Deuteronomy 21:22–22:7
In the second reading, Moses instructed that if the community executed a man for a capital offense and impaled him on a stake, they were not to let his corpse remain on the stake overnight, but were to bury him the same day, for an impaled body affronted God. A closed portion ends here with the end of the chapter.

In the continuation of the reading, Moses instructed that if one found another's lost ox, sheep, donkey, garment, or any other lost thing, then the finder could not ignore it, but was required to take it back to its owner. If the owner did not live near the finder or the finder did not know who the owner was, then the finder was to bring the thing home and keep it until the owner claimed it. A closed portion ends here.

In the continuation of the reading, Moses instructed that if one came upon another's donkey or ox fallen on the road, then one could not ignore it, but was required to help the owner to raise it. A closed portion ends here.

In the continuation of the reading, Moses instructed that a woman was not to put on man's apparel, nor a man wear woman's clothing. Another closed portion ends here.

And as the reading continues, Moses instructed that if one came upon a bird's nest with the mother bird sitting over fledglings or eggs, then one could not take the mother together with her young, but was required to let the mother go and take only the young. The second reading and a closed portion end here.

Third reading—Deuteronomy 22:8–23:7
In the third reading, Moses taught that when one built a new house, one had to make a parapet for the roof, so that no one should fall from it. One was not to sow a vineyard with a second kind of seed, nor use the yield of such a vineyard. This because the soil would not be enough for them and the product of both would not be of good quality. A closed portion ends here.

In the continuation of the reading, Moses instructed that one was not to plow with an ox and a donkey together, as their force is uneven. One was not to wear cloth combining wool and linen., as their integrity and quality would be lowered. A closed portion ends here.

In the continuation of the reading, Moses instructed that one was to make tassels (tzitzit) on the four corners of the garment with which one covered oneself. Another closed portion ends here.

As the reading continues, Moses instructed that if a man married a woman, cohabited with her, took an aversion to her, and falsely charged her with not having been a virgin at the time of the marriage, then the woman's parents were to produce the cloth with evidence of the woman's virginity before the town elders at the town gate. The elders were then to have the man flogged and fine him 100 shekels of silver to be paid to the woman's father. The woman was to remain the man's wife, and he was never to have the right to divorce her. A closed portion ends here.

In the continuation of the reading, Moses instructed that if the elders found that woman had not been a virgin, then the woman was to be brought to the entrance of her father's house and stoned to death by the men of her town. A closed portion ends here.

In the continuation of the reading, Moses instructed that if a man was found lying with another man's wife, both the man and the woman with whom he lay were to die. Another closed portion ends here.

As the reading continues, Moses instructed that if, in a city, a man lay with a virgin who was engaged to a man, then the authorities were to take the two of them to the town gate and stone them to death—the girl because she did not cry for help - implying consent and infidelity even when there was already a compromise from her-, and the man because he slept with another man's wife. A closed portion ends here.

In the continuation of the reading, Moses instructed that if the man lay with the girl by force in the open country - violated her -, only the man was to die, as she cried for help and there was no one to save her. The law compared this vile act to a murderer. Another closed portion ends here.

In the continuation of the reading, Moses instructed that if a man seized a virgin who was not engaged and lay with her, then the man was to pay the girl's father 50 shekels of silver, she was to become the man's wife, and he was never to have the right to divorce her. A closed portion ends here with the end of the chapter.

As the reading continues in chapter 23, Moses instructed that no man could marry his father's former wife after his passing. A closed portion ends here.

In the continuation of the reading, Moses taught that in God's service congregation - levites - could not admit into membership anyone whose testes were crushed or whose member was cut off. A closed portion ends here.

In the continuation of the reading, Moses taught that God's service congregation - levites -could not admit into membership anyone misbegotten (, mamzer) or anyone descended within ten generations from one misbegotten. A closed portion ends here.

And as the reading continues, Moses instructed that God's service congregation - levites - could not admit into membership any Ammonite or Moabite, or