# The Other Boleyn Girl (2008 film)

The Other Boleyn Girl is a 2008 historical romantic drama film directed by Justin Chadwick. The screenplay by Peter Morgan was adapted from Philippa Gregory’s 2001 novel of the same name. It is a fictionalised account of the lives of 16th-century aristocrats Mary Boleyn, one-time mistress of King Henry VIII, and her sister, Anne, who became the monarch's ill-fated second wife, though the film does not represent history accurately.

Production studio BBC Films also owns the rights to adapt the 2006 sequel novel, The Boleyn Inheritance, which tells the story of Anne of Cleves, Catherine Howard and Jane Parker.

Plot 
Henry VIII of England's marriage to his brother's widow, Catherine of Aragon, has not produced a male heir. Their only surviving child is a daughter, Princess Mary, whom Henry fears cannot successfully rule as a woman. Meanwhile, Lady Mary Boleyn marries William Carey. Mary's uncle, Thomas Howard, Duke of Norfolk and her father, Thomas Boleyn, plot to install Mary's sister, Anne, as the King's mistress, hoping she will bear him a son and improve the family's status. Anne accepts.

King Henry is injured in a hunting accident. Henry becomes smitten with Mary, who tends his wounds, and invites Mary, her husband, and the Boleyn family to court. Mary and Anne become ladies-in-waiting to Queen Catherine, while William Carey is sent abroad. Mary begins an affair with the King and falls in love with him. Anne secretly marries Henry Percy, a nobleman betrothed to Lady Mary Talbot. Anne reveals her marriage to her brother, George Boleyn, who informs Mary. Mary alerts her father and uncle, who forcibly annul the union, keeping its existence secret. Anne is then sent to the French court.

Mary becomes pregnant with Henry's child. He rewards the Boleyn family by giving them new titles and estates, with George being betrothed to Jane Parker, whom he detests. Mary experiences pregnancy complications, and is confined to bed until her child is born. Norfolk recalls Anne to distract Henry from seeking another mistress. Resentful that the King initially preferred Mary, a revenge-driven Anne beguiles Henry. Mary gives birth to a son, but Anne points out to Henry that the boy is illegitimate and cannot inherit the throne. Henry rejects Mary and does not recognize her child as his son. 

Anne refuses Henry's advances unless he no longer beds Catherine and stops speaking to Mary. This infuriates Norfolk, until Anne reveals her intention to become queen and bear the King a legitimate son. Mary and her child are exiled to the countryside. Mary's husband dies.

Anne pressures Henry to break from the Catholic Church when the Pope refuses to annul his marriage to Catherine. Henry learns some rumors of Anne's marriage to Percy; Mary is brought back to court but assures Henry that the rumors are false. She decides to stay, at Anne's urging. 

Henry declares himself Supreme Head of the Church of England, orders that his marriage be annulled, and banishes Catherine from court. When Anne refuses to consummate their relationship until they are married, Henry, overcome with rage and lust, rapes her. While deeply traumatized by the assault, Anne, now pregnant, marries Henry and becomes the new Queen. 

Another daughter, Elizabeth, is born. Henry, disappointed there is still no male heir, begins to see Jane Seymour, Anne's lady-in-waiting, in secret. Anne is hated by the people, who denounce her as a witch and she begins to develop paranoia as her marriage crumbles. 

After miscarrying a son, Anne fears for her life and begs George to impregnate her. He agrees but is unable to go through with it. George's wife, Jane, is spying on Anne and reports her suspicions to Norfolk and the King. Anne and George are arrested on charges of incest, adultery and treason. Despite lacking evidence, the court finds both guilty and sentences them to death. Mary rushes back to London but arrives too late to save George, who is beheaded. Mary begs Henry for Anne's life and believes her sister will be spared, since he says he wishes to not hurt Mary any further. The two sisters reconcile, and Anne asks Mary to look after Elizabeth.

A message from Henry is delivered to Mary. He urges her not to return to court and reveals that Anne will be executed. After Anne's execution, Mary leaves with the toddler Elizabeth, taking her to the country. 

An epilogue reveals that Thomas Boleyn died two years after the executions, while Norfolk was later imprisoned and the next two generations of the Howard family were later executed for treason. Mary married William Stafford and lived away from court; Elizabeth went on to rule England for over forty years, as Queen Elizabeth I.

Cast 
 Natalie Portman as Anne Boleyn. Portman was attracted to the role because it was a character that she "hadn’t played before", and describes Anne as "strong, yet she can be vulnerable and she's ambitious and calculating and will step on people but also feels remorse for it". One month before filming began, Portman started taking daily classes to master the English accent under dialect coach Jill McCulloch, who also stayed on set throughout the filming. This was her second film to use her English accent after V for Vendetta.
 Scarlett Johansson as Mary Boleyn.
 Eric Bana as King Henry VIII of England. Bana commented that he was surprised upon being offered the role, and describes the character of Henry as "a man who was somewhat juvenile and driven by passion and greed", and that he interpreted the character as "this man who was involved in an incredibly intricate, complicated situation, largely through his own doing". In preparation for the role, Bana relied mostly on the script to come up with his own version of the character, and he "deliberately stayed away" from other portrayals of Henry in films because he found them "too confusing and restricting".
 Jim Sturgess as George Boleyn, Viscount Rochford. Though the three siblings are all very tight-knit, George and Anne are closest. George supports and loves Anne for her rebellious and unconventional attitude. He is forced to marry Jane Parker. George is often viewed as the most vulnerable and probably the kindest of the siblings.
 Kristin Scott Thomas as Elizabeth Boleyn, Countess of Wiltshire and Ormond
 Mark Rylance as Thomas Boleyn, Earl of Wiltshire and Ormond
 David Morrissey as Thomas Howard, Duke of Norfolk
 Benedict Cumberbatch as William Carey
 Oliver Coleman as Henry Percy, Earl of Northumberland
 Ana Torrent as Catherine of Aragon
 Eddie Redmayne as William Stafford
 Juno Temple as Jane Parker
 Iain Mitchell as Thomas Cromwell
 Corinne Galloway as Jane Seymour
 Constance Stride as young Mary Tudor
 Maisie Smith as young Elizabeth Tudor
 Alfie Allen as the King's Messenger
 Andrew Garfield as Francis Weston

Production 
Much of the filming took place in Kent, England, though Hever Castle was not used, despite being the original household of Thomas Boleyn and family from 1505 to 1539. The Baron's Hall at Penshurst Place featured, as did Dover Castle, which stood in for the Tower of London in the film, and Knole House in Sevenoaks was used in several scenes. The home of the Boleyns was represented by Great Chalfield Manor in Wiltshire, and other scenes were filmed at locations in Derbyshire, including Cave Dale, Haddon Hall, Dovedale and North Lees Hall near Hathersage.

Dover Castle was transformed into the Tower of London for the execution scenes of George and Anne Boleyn. Knole House was the setting for many of the film's London night scenes and the inner courtyard doubles for the entrance of Whitehall Palace where the grand arrivals and departures were staged. The Tudor Gardens and Baron's Hall at Penshurst Place were transformed into the interiors of Whitehall Palace, including the scenes of Henry's extravagant feast.

Historical accuracy 

Historian Alex von Tunzelmann criticised The Other Boleyn Girl for its portrayal of the Boleyn family and Henry VIII, citing factual errors. She stated, "In real life, by the time Mary Boleyn started her affair with Henry, she had already enjoyed a passionate liaison with his great rival, King François I of France. Rather ungallantly, François called her 'my hackney', explaining that she was fun to ride. Chucked out of France by his irritated wife, Mary sashayed back to England and casually notched up her second kingly conquest. The film's portrayal of this Boleyn girl as a shy, blushing damsel could hardly be further from the truth." She further criticised the depiction of Anne as a "manipulative vixen" and Henry as "nothing more than a gullible sex addict in wacky shoulder pads". The film presents other historical inaccuracies, such as the statement by a character that, through marrying Henry Percy, Anne Boleyn would become Duchess of Northumberland, a title that was only created in the reign of Henry's son, Edward VI. Also, it places Anne's time in the French court after her involvement with Percy, somethi