# Île-de-France tramway Line 4

Île-de-France tramway Line 4, also called the T4, is an  long tram-train line operated by the SNCF in the Seine-Saint-Denis department of Île-de-France.. The line starts at Aulnay-sous-Bois and features two branches, with the first running to Bondy (opened 20 November 2006) and the second running to Montfermeil (opened 14 December 2019 and 31 August 2020). 

It is the result of the transformation and installation of a double-track on the Bondy to Aulnay-sous-Bois line, or ligne des Coquetiers ("Egg Cup Line"), which opened in 1875. It thus became the first French tram-train line, an event whose true significance emerged during plans to expand it into a tramway and integrate it into the urban transport network.

History

The ligne des Coquetiers

Line 4 of the Île-de-France tramway was known as the Bondy à Aulnay-sous-Bois rail line, or ligne des Coquetiers, and has linked the Nord and Est rail networks between Aulnay-sous-Bois and Bondy since 1875.

The "Egg Cup Line" fell into disuse because of the line's limited area and lacklustre service, which caused many traffic problems at its rail crossings. In 1993, the SNCF implemented some changes to reduce closure times at rail crossings and increase train frequency during rush hour (a train every fifteen minutes between Bondy and Gargan and every thirty minutes between Gargan and Aulnay-sous-Bois). However, they failed to make the line more appealing to potential users, who remained uninterested because of its insufficient service level and the excessive length of the train's route.

The line was thus shut down in December 2003 for major renovations to transform it into a hybrid between a train and an urban tramway: the tram-train.

Transformation of the Line

The development of the tram-train concept inspired plans to reinvigorate the ligne des Coquetiers using this system that seemed ideal. It solved the problems caused by the rail crossings by transforming them into simple road junctions. It reduced disruptions in the urban landscape and expanded the use of trams in urban transportation all while greatly increasing service. This technology was finally adopted, and in 2001 the SNCF called for European tenders for the trains and cars. In 2003 the draft was approved by the STIF, SNCF, and RFF.

Objectives

The work aimed to:
 increase service throughout the day until 8 P.M., with trains scheduled every six minutes Monday to Saturday and every nine minutes on Sundays and statutory holidays. Between 8 P.M. and 10 P.M., trains were to be scheduled every nine minutes and every twelve minutes from 10 P.M. until the end of service. Service was also to be decreased for six weeks during the summer, from approximately 14 July to 31 August;
 build new stations to better respond to user demand;
 reduce disruptions of the urban landscape by railways by integrating tramways into cities in collaboration with the Seine-Saint-Denis department and the communes it travels through; and
 modify urban transportation networks by reducing wait times at signalized rail crossings.
The evolution toward urban transport modes was accompanied by physical modifications to the rail line by:
 doubling the track between Gargan and Aulnay-sous-Bois, rebuilding the overpass on RN 3, and enlarging the Rougemont Bridge on the Canal de l'Ourcq;
 building a new terminus at Bondy Station with an additional track;
 eliminating passenger buildings and turning rail stations into tramway-style stops. Only Gargan Station services trains since it houses the line's operations centre, where a central track leads to train storage;
 building three additional stops:
 Remise à Jorelle between Bondy and Les Coquetiers;
 Lycée Henri Sellier between Gargan and L'Abbaye ; and
 Rougemont – Chanteloup between Freinville – Sevran and Aulnay-sous-Bois; and
 turning rail crossings into road junctions with signalization that conforms to the highway code.

Work

Construction began in June 2004. The entire track was removed and reinstalled, the stations' platforms were demolished and rebuilt, the 25 kV catenary was rewired, and the Gargan-Aulnay section was made into a double-track. To do so, the Rougemont Bridge on the Canal de l'Ourcq was widened, and in June 2005 the RN3 overpass, which was built in 1932 as a single line, had a walkway installed.

Six months later, in January 2006, the biggest operation took place in front of many onlookers: the new double-track overpass' walkway was installed overnight after traffic was blocked on the ex-RN3. That same summer, the first train cars were sent by oversize load and put on the line for technical and safety tests.

Cost
The T4 project was a part of the twelfth State-Region contract agreement. Financing for the transformation of the ligne des Coquetiers into the T4 Line, which totalled 52.72 million euros (January 2003 cost), was shared between:
 the Île-de-France Regional Council: 46.94%;
 the French government: 23.47%;
 the RFF: 18.52% (which was partially soft loans from the Île-de-France Region);
 the Seine-Saint-Denis General Council: 9.26%;
 the SNCF: 1.82% (from soft loans from the Île-de-France Region).
The SNCF paid for the fifteen cars that were needed to operate on the line: a total of 68 million euros. The annual cost of running the line is 11.2 million euros, which are provided by the STIF.

Tram-train

Line 4 of the Île-de-France tramway was inaugurated on Saturday, 18 November 2006, and was free of charge the entire weekend. Its true commercial operation began the morning of 20 November 2006.

The T4 is the Île-de-France network's fourth line and France's first tram-train line. It is the first of its kind to be operated by the SNCF. Unlike the other Île-de-France tramway lines, which are operated by RATP, this line is operated by the SNCF, which may seem surprising. The SNCF left the ligne des Moulineaux (now T2), which was then in disrepair and highly unprofitable, to the RATP during the 1990s.

The SNCF's policy was to concentrate on heavy fluxes of passengers and thus on heavy rail transit. The success of tramway networks and the increasing popularity of peri-urban transportation made the SNCF change its focus.

There are no plans to extend the line to Noisy-le-Sec. This would allow passengers to reach this multimodal hub and connect with the T1, the RER E (both the Tournan and Chelles-Gournay branches), the Tangentielle Nord, and a fortiori toward Paris.

The RATP's expansion of the T2 from Puteaux to La Défense on existing roadbeds contributed to the enormous success of that line. Despite this, the ability to operate with a 25 kV catenary is needed to reach the Noisy-le-Sec depot. The trains' dual-current abilities (25 kV / 750 V) are not used, since the entire line is powered in 25 kV.

The line is used by fifteen tram-train cars, which run on the right as mandated by the Code of Conduct. It takes nineteen minutes to travel the eight-kilometre line. As stated in its regulations, the cars and stations are carefully analyzed to make them easily accessible for the disabled.

Criticism
Despite the complete improvement of the service, the line's operations have not gone without criticism. On its initial day, 18 November 2006, two trains had damaged brakes, which caused the SNCF to interrupt service during the late afternoon, forcing many users to continue their trip on foot or by hitchhiking.

Many other aspects of the new line drew complaints. The frequent use of audio warning devices by train operators caused friction between nearby residents and elected officials on the one hand and the SNCF on the other. This nuisance led to the creation of a collective of residents and local politicians who successfully reduced the volume of the audio devices by 15 dB in mid-March 2007. Safety policies have since changed and the devices' use is now limited to when there is immediate danger.

Other users have complained about conceptual errors or unfinished infrastructure. Some pedestrian walkways remained inaccessible a year after the line opened; disabled people were unable to access certain points because of stairs; and the number of arches to store bicycles in the proposed shelters were reduced. The disappearance of some old passenger buildings against the wishes of some municipalities also caused controversy. A group supported by the municipalities was able to save Les Coquetiers and L'Abbaye stations, but the L'Allée de la Tour Rendez-Vous building was destroyed. A bicycle path was built along the line starting in spring 2008 and was opened in the beginning of 2010.

Service Improvements

Service improvements were implemented on 8 December 2007. From then on, from 10 P.M. until the end of service, the tramway began connecting with the RER B train at Aulnay and the RER E at Bondy. Since that date, the line has been in service the nights of 31 December and the Fête de la musique.

However, no changes are planned for the nearby bus routes that lead to the tramway, which could allow the line t