# Coppery metaltail

The coppery metaltail (Metallura theresiae) is a species of hummingbird in the "coquettes", tribe Lesbiini of subfamily Lesbiinae. It is endemic to Peru.

Taxonomy and systematics

The coppery metaltail has two subspecies, the nominate M. t. theresiae and M. t. parkeri.

Description

The coppery metaltail is  long and weighs about . It has a medium length, straight, black bill. The adult male of the nominate subspecies has reddish bronze to reddish coppery upperparts with a greenish tone to the rump and uppertail coverts. Its slightly forked tail is bronze green with violet reflections on its upper side and shining bronze green on its underside. The sides of its head and neck are reddish bronze and its narrow gorget is glittering golden green. The rest of its underparts are a somewhat less reddish bronze green than the upperparts. The adult female is a duller version of the male and its gorget is smaller. Juveniles do not have gorget. Subspecies M. t. parkeri is similar to the nominate but its uppersides are not as reddish and the underside of its tail is a brighter golden green.

Distribution and habitat

The nominate subspecies of coppery metaltail is found on the eastern slope of the Peruvian Andes from east of the Marañón River south into Huánuco Department. M. t. parkeri is known only from the Cordillera de Colán in Peru's Amazonas Department. Like most of the metaltails, the species inhabits the edges of elfin forest and páramo, moist landscapes characterized by shrubby growth and small trees. In elevation it ranges between .

Behavior

Movement

The coppery metaltail is believed to be resident throughout its range.

Feeding

The coppery metaltail feeds mostly on nectar but details of its diet are lacking. Males defend feeding territories. In addition to nectaring, it catches small arthropods by sallies from a perch.

Breeding

The coppery metaltail's breeding phenology and nest have not been documented. Its breeding season appears to include August and September.

Vocalization

The coppery metaltail's vocalizations have been described as a "series of frail zeee calls, often alternating with ttrrrt notes" and also as "a jerky, wiry chatter similar to [that of] Tyrian Metaltail [Metallura tyrianthina], but perhaps lower, less emphatic, with buzzier notes."

Status

The IUCN has assessed the coppery metaltail as being of Least Concern. Its population size is not known and is believed to be decreasing. It is deemed fairly common to locally very common. Though human density in its high elevation habitat is low, burning of páramo to create grazing pasture is a threat.

References

coppery metaltail
Birds of the Peruvian Andes
Endemic birds of Peru
coppery metaltail
Taxonomy articles created by Polbot