# Campylobacter fetus

Campylobacter fetus is a rod-shaped, gram-negative species of bacteria within the genus Campylobacter of phylum Pseudomonadota. Identification of C. fetus species in infected animals or people is routinely performed by culture on blood or cefoperazone deoxycholate agar. Subspecies of C. fetus commonly causes reproductive disease in ruminants and gastrointestinal disease in humans. Transmission of C. fetus subspecies venerealis occurs mainly through venereal contact while transmission of C. fetus subspecies fetus occurs mainly through ingestion of bacteria in a contaminated environment. Infertility in cattle and abortion in sheep are common outcomes of infection associated with C. fetus subspecies venerealis and C. fetus subspecies fetus, respectively. Disease in humans occurs through zoonotic transmission of C. fetus mainly via ingestion of contaminated food or water sources. C. fetus can be diagnosed with polymerase chain reaction assays, enzyme linked immunosorbent assays and vaginal mucus agglutination testing. As vaccines are typically not efficient in preventing future spread, infected bulls are often culled. Human infections may be treated with erythromycin as antimicrobial resistance has been emerging for the fluoroquinolones.

Morphology and identification 
On cytology, C. fetus is a gram-negative rod, though may present coccoid under suboptimal conditions. A distinguishing feature of C. fetus is the "S-shape" of the rod, resembling thin, helical spirochaetes. C. fetus can be a highly motile organism by means of a single, unsheathed flagellum. Genus identification based on motility may be possible due to their characteristic corkscrew-like movement. C. fetus are non-spore forming and microaerophilic organisms that are both catalase and oxidase-positive, but non-fermentative.

Identification of C. fetus requires aseptic sample collection, followed by culture and potentially further biochemical and molecular methods. To increase the likelihood of successful growth, cultures on blood agar should be performed as soon as possible following collection. If samples are likely to be contaminated or faster growth is required, selective media or the use of antibiotics can be employed to inhibit growth of contaminants. Modified charcoal cefoperazone deoxycholate (CCD) agar is a growth medium designed to isolate Campylobacters from feces. On CCD agar, C. fetus will grow as grey colonies that may appear moist. Growth of C. fetus can be seen within 40–48 hours of incubation between 25-37 °C under microaerophilic conditions. Some, but not all species of C. fetus will grow at 42 °C. Because C. fetus is a fastidious organism to grow, positive cultures can be considered diagnostic, however negative cultures cannot rule out the possibility of infection.

Additional methods of identification may be used to diagnosis C. fetus to the subspecies level. Biochemical methods can identify subspecies of C. fetus, though may be considered unreliable. Campylobacter fetus subspecies fetus (Cff) can grow in 1% glycine and produce H2S, while C. fetus subspecies venerealis (Cfv) cannot. Growth of Cff will not occur in 3.5% NaCl. To increase reliability of identification, molecular methods such as polymerase chain reaction or DNA sequencing may be utilized. Other methods of identification include histology, immunohistochemistry, direct immunofluorescence, agglutination and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay.

Virulence factors 
Campylobacter spp. in general possess membrane lipopolysaccharide (LPS) with low biological activity compared to other bacteria (i.e. Enterobacteriaceae), subsequently avoiding detection by the host immune system and which may explain why persistent infections can occur. In terms of subspecies, C. fetus subspecies venerealis and C. fetus subspecies fetus have a unique structural component that prevents host-mediated phagocytosis; this "S-layer" is a microcapsule of high molecular weight proteins arranged in a lattice formation. The S-layer prevents complement-mediated bacterial killing by impairing the binding of C3b to the surface of the bacteria. The S-layer is critical in the pathogenicity of C. fetus, as it allows for a significant bacteremic phase for hematogenous dissemination. Additionally, Cfv has long LPS side chains (O-antigens) that may resist complement-mediated bacterial killing. Aside from complement-mediated mechanisms, C. fetus has also evolved variation in its S-layer proteins (SLPs) of the S-layer to subvert the host antibody response.

Pathogenesis and disease 
There are two subspecies of C. fetus that cause reproductive disease in ruminants; C. fetus subspecies fetus and C. fetus subspecies venerealis. These subspecies are associated with abortion in sheep and cattle and infertility in cattle, respectively. C. fetus subspecies fetus is a zoonotic pathogen that has been reported to cause disease in immunocompromised humans. Similar to C. fetus subspecies jejuni, C. fetus subspecies fetus can be acquired via fecal-oral route and resides mostly in the gastrointestinal tract. Other means of transmission include the ingestion of infected fluid or placentas. Infections with Cff appear to be more detrimental in ewes than in cows, spreading readily through a flock resulting in abortion storms.

Bovine

Campylobacter fetus subspecies venerealis 
Bovine infectious infertility is a reproductive disease caused by infection of Cfv that leads to early embryonic mortality in cattle. Other names for this disease in cattle include campylobacteriosis, bovine venereal campylobacteriosis (BVC), bovine genital campylobacteriosis. The disease is also referred to more colloquially as "vibriosis", based on the former classification of the bacteria under the Vibrio genus. Bovine venereal campylobacteriosis is primarily a problem in beef cattle breeding stock. C. fetus subspecies venerealis is an obligate colonizer of the bull penile and preputial mucosa.  Infection of bulls with Cfv is a chronic, asymptomatic infection that leads to the development carrier bulls in the breeding herd. Infection of the prepuce can persist for years in bulls and is often undetected due to the lack of any visible lesions on the penis or prepuce. Younger bulls are more likely to clear the Cfv infection than older bulls, therefore transmission risk increases with bull age. Transmission of Cfv to cows occurs through mating with an infected bull. Alongside Tritrichomonas foetus, bovine venereal campylobacteriosis considered an important sexually transmitted disease (STD) of cattle. However, transmission can occur by artificial insemination with semen from an infected bull. Transmissibility from carriers to naïve cows is high, such that outbreaks of Cfv in the herd can often be traced to the introduction of a new bull. Infection sites in the cow include the vagina, cervix, endometrium, and oviducts. If the cow becomes pregnant, the placenta can also be a site of infection. Rather than the bacterial colonization itself, the ensuing inflammatory response in the uterus and oviducts is often the cause of early embryonic mortality. Loss of embryos is generally within the first 15 to 21 days of conception, indicating infection occurred near mating. Late term abortions have been reported for Cfv infections in cows, but are much less likely than early embryonic loss. Cows with BVC display irregular estrus cycles, signs of heat when presumed to be pregnant, and increased returns to service, but often lack any outward signs of infection. On a herd level, Cfv leads to widespread infertility, wide variability in calf age, longer calving seasons, and decreased calf crops. Infected cows may return to estrus up to five times before pregnancy can be maintained. Infections and pregnancy loss in subsequent calving seasons is substantially less severe than the first season of infection, as cows can mount a sufficient immune response. However, the bacteria can persist in the vaginal mucosa for years in some cows, leading to infection of bulls upon mating. It is also reported that Cfv can become endemic in cow herds, leading to a low incidence of embryonic loss every 4 to 5 years; in these cases, heifers appear to be most vulnerable to Cfv infection as they lack sufficient immunity. Cow- to-cow transmission of Cfv has not been reported. A major risk factor for introduction of Cfv-infection in a breeding herd is the introduction of new animals with unknown Cfv-status, whether these be cows or bulls. Economic losses from Cfv infections can be substantial - such losses include culling non-pregnant cows, culling infected bulls, decreased calves born, decreased weaning weights, and prolonged calving seasons.

Campylobacter fetus subspecies fetus 
Campylobacter fetus subspecies fetus is a commensal organism of the bovine gastrointestinal tract. Campylobacter fetus subspecies fetus is a cause of sporadic abortions in cattle and sheep, but is more of a serious problem in sheep production. Ing