# Rigi Railways

Rigi Railways () is a railway company that operates a group of railways on the mountain Rigi, located between two of the arms of Lake Lucerne, in Switzerland. They include two standard gauge rack railways, the Vitznau–Rigi Bahn (VRB) and the Arth–Rigi Bahn (ARB), along with the Luftseilbahn Weggis–Rigi Kaltbad (LWRK) cable car.

Reaching a height of  above sea level, the Rigi Railways are the highest standard gauge railway in Europe. They are also the highest railway in both cantons of Lucerne and Schwyz. The Vitznau–Rigi Bahn is also notable as the first mountain rack railway in Europe, and even the second in the world, after the Mount Washington Cog Railway in the United States.

History

Building of the Vitznau–Rigi Railway

Aware of the scenic location of Mount Rigi, Swiss engineer Niklaus Riggenbach masterminded the construction of a railway from Vitznau, on the shores of Lake Lucerne and the southern flank of Mount Rigi, to a point close to its summit. He already had the technology as he had patented, in France in 1863, a system of  toothed racks set between the railway tracks interlocking with cogwheels fitted under the locomotives.

Jointly, with fellow engineers Olivier Zschokke and Adolf  Naef, he submitted an application to the canton of Lucerne for permission to build a line from Vitznau to Rigi Staffelhöhe, a point somewhat below the summit of Rigi, but the nearest point to the summit within that canton. The cantonal administration already knew of the success of the Mount Washington Railway and saw the advantages in this construction, granting permission on 9 June 1869.

The construction itself began in the following September, the limited liability company, which had offered 1250 shares was greatly over-subscribed on the first day of issue. On 21 May 1870, Riggenbach's birthday, locomotive No.1, named Stadt Luzern, made its first trial run. Exactly one year later the first mountain railway using rack and pinion technology was officially opened. Riggenbach, never noted for missing an opportunity, drove the first train to the upper terminus at Rigi Staffelhöhe.

The line, from Vitznau to Rigi Staffelhöhe was  long and climbed a total of  to reach a height of  at its summit, the maximum gradient being 1 in 4 (25%).

Trains reach the summit
As originally built, the Vitznau–Rigi Railway only reached Rigi Staffelhöhe, as that was the cantonal boundary between the canton of Lucerne and the canton of Schwyz. The summit of Mount Rigi is situated in the canton of Schwyz, along with the northern slopes of the mountain and the town of Arth on Lake Zug below.

In 1870, a committee made up of 12 citizens of Arth were granted a concession from the Schwyz Cantonal Council for a railway to operate from Arth via Oberarth to Rigi Kulm, together with a second line to connect Rigi Staffelhöhe to Rigi Kulm. The same engineering team who were responsible for the Vitznau–Rigi Railway also undertook responsibility for the construction for these lines.

The Arth company started by building the line from Rigi Staffelhöhe to Rigi Kulm, and this was ready for opening in time for the summer traffic in 1873. This line made an end-on connection with that from Vitznau and the Vitznau company operated their trains over it, paying the Arth company a ground rent for its use. This state of affairs continued until the merger in 1992.

The line from Rigi Staffelhöhe to Rigi Kulm, was just  long but enabled trains to reach the summit at Rigi Kulm, a height of  above sea level, a climb of a further  from Rigi Staffelhöhe.

Building of the Arth–Rigi Railway

By the time construction started on the main line of the Arth–Rigi Railway, construction had also started on the Gotthard railway, and it was clear that this main line railway would include a station in Arth, now known as Arth-Goldau station. It was clearly important that the Arth–Rigi line should connect with this station.

The concession to construct the Arth–Rigi Railway was ceded, in 1873, to the International Company for Mountain Railways in Aarau, a company founded by Riggenbach and this company carried out the railway project as general contractor at a cost of CHF 4.2 million and also supplied five of the six steam locomotives needed to operate it. Construction of the first section, that from Arth-am-See, a station by Lake Zug, to Oberarth commenced in 1873 and once the position of the railway station had been agreed with the main line company, in 1874, construction work on the second section began, the Arth–Rigi Railway becoming operational on 4 June 1875. The line offered only summertime services until 1884 when year-round operation commenced.

The line from Arth to the junction at Rigi Staffelhöhe was  long, making the total length of the Arth line  The maximum gradient is 1 in 5 (20%)

Building of the Rigi–Scheidegg Railway

Whilst the Arth–Rigi railway was under construction, another line on the Rigi massif was also being built. This linked Rigi Kaltbad, on the Vitznau-Rigi line, with Rigi Scheidegg to the east. Unlike the previous two lines, the Rigi–Scheidegg Railway followed the contours near the top of the mountain, rather than climbing it, and was not a rack railway. Also unlike the other two lines, it was built to  rather than standard gauge, and so never made a direct connection to the other lines. The line opened, in two stages, in 1874 and 1875.

Electrification
The first electrification, on the short section of line from Arth to Goldau, came with the commencement of the winter timetable in 1906. The mountain section from Goldau to Rigi Kulm, only operated in the summer until 1928, had the power switched on the following year, making this the first standard gauge rack and pinion railway in the country to convert to electric traction.  Electrification continued in 1937 when the other side of the mountain, the line from Vitznau, came under the wires. The electrification programme supplied power at 1500 V Direct Current from overhead wires.

Closures and a new line

In 1931 the Rigi–Scheidegg Railway, which had never been electrified, was closed. This line, which includes a  tunnel and several bridges, now serves as a panoramic footpath and in winter is also used for cross country skiing.

It was not until 1 January 1959, when the section of the Arth–Rigi line between Arth, on Lake Zug, and Arth-Goldau station was replaced by a bus service, that the second closure took place. The Arth–Rigi line then terminated in its station above the main line tracks.

A new rail connection was built at , linking the Arth-Rigi Railway and the Vitznau-Rigi Railway, and opened in 1990.

Merger and aerial tramways
In 1967 the Swiss government granted an operating licence for an aerial cableway to run from near the shores of Lake Lucerne to a point near the summit of Mount Rigi. To avoid direct competition with the Vitznau-Rigi Railway the aerial cableway was to run from Weggis, where connections were available with the lake steamers from Lucerne, to meet the railway at Rigi Kaltbad. The licence was granted to the Rigi Railway Company.

The construction period was short, a mere eleven months saw the new aerial cableway completed and the opening took place on 15 July 1968. The cable car rises from the lakeside some  to its summit and has a journey time of just 10 minutes. A  pathway at Rigi Kaltbad connects the mountain station of the cable car with the railway station.

The technical installations were the work of K. Garaventa & Sons of Goldau, and the large cabins were supplied by the Carrosseriewerke Company of Aarburg. On the 25th anniversary of the opening of the cable car (in 1993), the original two red passenger cabins were replaced by modern panorama cabins.

In 1992 the two railway companies merged to become the Rigi Railways Company and in the same year took over the Rigi Ski Lift Company.

Operation

Termini

The Vitznau–Rigi Railway commences from a terminal station in the centre of Vitznau, and adjacent to the landing stage served by the Schifffahrtsgesellschaft des Vierwaldstättersees. This company operates passenger vessels, including some historic paddle steamers, on services that link Vitznau with the city of Lucerne and other places on Lake Lucerne. The public square between the station and landing stage is largely occupied by a turntable used by the railway to access its lakeside depot.

Since of the closure of the section from Arth, the Arth–Rigi Railway now commences on platforms above, and at right-angles to, the main line platforms of Arth-Goldau station. The lines depot lies to the south of the station, where a link track connects the mountain railway with the main line.

Both railways share a common terminal station at Rigi Kulm, although the two tracks are not linked in the station, and the two lines to Rigi Staffelhöhe follow slightly different routes. Each railway has a single stub track and platform.

Passing points
The Arth–Rigi line is single line with passing points in some