# The King of Fighters '94

The King of Fighters '94 (KOF 94) is a fighting game released by SNK for the Neo Geo MVS arcade system in 1994, as the first in The King of Fighters series. The game was also released for the Neo Geo home console systems, including the Neo Geo AES and Neo Geo CD. In 2008, KOF 94 was one of sixteen games included in SNK Arcade Classics Vol. 1 for the PlayStation 2, PlayStation Portable and Wii.

KOF '94 is a crossover featuring characters from SNK's fighting game properties Fatal Fury and Art of Fighting. It also includes revised versions of characters from their pre-Neo Geo games Ikari Warriors and Psycho Soldier, as well as original characters created specifically for the game. The plot features the creation of a new King of Fighters tournament created by the criminal Rugal Bernstein and is the only game to take place during the pre-Orochi Saga of the series.

SNK developed KOF '94 with the initial idea of using several games from the company in order to attract gamers who played these games. The characters' designs, as well as its innovative gameplay system based on using teams of three members, were both well received. The success of the game allowed SNK to produce a series of sequels in The King of Fighters series and the series itself eventually became the flagship series of SNK.

In 2004, to commemorate the tenth anniversary of the series, SNK released a remake titled The King of Fighters '94 Re-Bout. It features the original game and a new version with higher resolution graphics and 3D environments.

Gameplay

The basic gameplay system of KOF '94 is similar to SNK's previous games like the Fatal Fury series, Art of Fighting and Samurai Shodown. The game uses a four attack button configuration similar to Fatal Fury 2 and Fatal Fury Special, that consists of light punch, light kick, strong punch and strong kick. Like in Fatal Fury 2, specialized techniques are performed by pressing combinations of buttons, allowing the player to dodge an opponent's attack or to launch a character's powerful knockdown attack. As with most other fighting games, each character has a set of basic, unique, and special moves that can be performed by the player with a specific series of joystick and button inputs.

Each player has a power gauge at the bottom of the screen which charges when the character is blocking or taking attacks. It can also be filled manually, although it leaves the character vulnerable to an attack, by pressing and holding three buttons at the same time. Once the power gauge is filled, the players basic attacks become stronger for a short period. When the characters are in this state, their players can also perform the character's Super Move, which immediately consumes the entire power gauge. The players can also access their character's Super Move when the life gauge is 75% empty and flashing red like in Fatal Fury 2. Taunting an opponent can reduce their power gauge, slow down their manual charging, and stop them from reaching the maximum level.

KOF 94 innovated the genre by replacing a traditional round-based format used in preceding fighting games with a format consisting of 3-on-3 team-based matches dubbed the Team Battle System. Instead of choosing a single character, the player selects from one of eight available teams, each consisting of three members. Before each match, the player chooses the order in which their team members enter the battle. When the match begins, the members chosen to go first on their respective teams will fight. When one character is defeated, the following member of the same team will take his or her place, while the character on the other team will have a small portion of their life restored (if energy was lost during the previous round). If a character is losing a match against the opponent, then the player can call one of the remaining teammates standing on the sidelines to jump in and perform a support attack. The match ends when all three members of either team lose.

Plot

Rugal Bernstein, a notorious and ruthless but skilled and influential black market weapons and drugs dealer bored of the lack of competition, he decides to host a new King of Fighters tournament after the previous K.O.F. announcements. Rugal sent out 24 invitations to certain individuals around the world. Unlike the previous three K.O.F. tournaments depicted in Art of Fighting 2, Fatal Fury: King of Fighters, and Fatal Fury 2; the new King of Fighters is a team tournament, with eight teams of three, each representing a different nationality.

At the tournament's conclusion, Mature, Rugal's personal secretary, invited the Japan team to fight their final match within Black Noah. It is there when Rugal revealed the true purpose of his tournament: defeat the winning team and add them to his grisly collection of previous challengers who were turned into statues. Kyo sees his defeated father there and decides to avenge him. As Rugal is finally beaten, he triggers the self-destruct mechanism on his ship. The team escapes and reflects on their victory.

Characters

The game has 24 playable characters, consisting of eight teams of three fighters. The final boss is not a part of any of the teams, is unplayable and fights the player's team alone. Five teams consist of characters from other SNK series while the rest consist mostly of KoF originals. Each team represents a different country, though this only affects the stage on which the team is fought and the characters in many cases don't share nationalities with the country they represent. Unlike later games in the series, the player cannot freely build a team and must choose one of the eight preset teams. Teams include:

 Team Japan (Team Hero):
  Kyo Kusanagi, a highschool student whose family possesses an ancient pyrokinetic abilities. He fights using Kenpo.
  Benimaru Nikaido, a model who fights with shootboxing and also has electrokinetic abilities.
  Goro Daimon, a large judoka who has geokinetic abilities.

 Team Fatal Fury:
  Terry Bogard, protagonist of the Fatal Fury series who has been trained in various fighting styles such as Karate, Kickboxing and Kung Fu. He can also attack with ki-based techniques he learned from his master, Tung Fu Rue.
  Andy Bogard, brother of Terry, who is trained in Koppojutsu and Shiranui-Ryu Ninjutsu. He also has ki-based techniques he learned from Tung Fu Rue.
  Joe Higashi, a Muay Thai fighter with aerokinetic abilities.

 Team Art of Fighting:
  Ryo Sakazaki, protagonist of the Art of Fighting series and the first champion of KoF tournament who practices Kyokugenryu Karate, which is similar to Kyokushin Karate but also contains ki-based techniques. He fights with a traditional version of Kyokugenryu.
  Robert Garcia, Ryo's best friend and friendly rival who fights using a kick-heavy version of Kyokugenryu Karate.
  Takuma Sakazaki, Ryo's father and a master of Kyokugenryu Karate, the only one who can perform the most advanced techniques of the style.

 Team Women Fighters:
  Mai Shiranui, a kunoichi who practices her family's own martial art, Shiranui-Ryu Ninjutsu.
  Yuri Sakazaki, younger sister of Ryo, who fights with an unorthodox take on Kyokugenryu Karate.
  King, a bar owner who fights with her own kick-heavy take on Muay Thai. Can also throw ki-based attacks with her kicks.

 Team Ikari Warriors:
  Ralf Jones, protagonist of the Ikari Warriors series. A mercenary whose fighting style is based on hard punches.
  Clark Still, Ralf's best friend and the other protagonist of the Ikari Warriors series. He fights with a wrestling-based fighting style.
  Heidern, the commander of the Ikari Warriors mercenary unit whose hands can cut like knives and he can also throw slashes as projectiles.

 Team Korea Justice:
  Kim Kaphwan, a Taekwondo-master with a strong sense of justice who is trying to rehabilitate the two criminals in his team.
  Chang Koehan, A very large criminal who fights with a large metal ball attached to a chain.
  Choi Bounge A very small criminal who fights with Freddy Krueger-esque claws.

 Team Psycho Soldier:
  Athena Asamiya, the protagonist of Psycho Soldier and an idol with psychokinetic abilities and Kung Fu training, though her fighting style emphasizes the former.
  Sie Kensou, the self-proclaimed love interest of Athena. He has the same psychokinetic abilities as Athena, though his fighting style emphasizes his Kung Fu.
  Chin Gentsai, master of Athena and Sie and a master of various styles of Kung Fu, though he fights primarily with Drunken Boxing.

 Team American Sports:
 Heavy D!, a professional boxer who was banned from regular competition after severely injuring his opponent.
 Lucky Glauber, a former professional basketball player and a Karate champion with a penchant for street fighting.
 Brian Battler, an American football player who also makes use of wrestling.

Final Boss:
 Rugal Bernstein An arms dealer and the organizer of The King of Fighters tournament. He is capable of copying any technique afte