# U.S. Route 30 in Pennsylvania

U.S. Route 30 (US 30) is a U.S. Highway that runs east–west across the southern part of Pennsylvania, passing through Pittsburgh and Philadelphia on its way from the West Virginia state line east to the Benjamin Franklin Bridge over the Delaware River into New Jersey.

In Pennsylvania, US 30 runs along or near the transcontinental Lincoln Highway, an auto trail which ran from San Francisco, California, to New York City before the U.S. Routes were designated. The Lincoln Highway turned northeast at Philadelphia, however, using present US 1 and its former alignments to cross the Delaware River into Trenton, New Jersey.

Points of interest along US 30 include the Gettysburg Battlefield, Dutch Wonderland, the Flight 93 National Memorial, Fort Ligonier, Westmoreland Mall, Jennerstown Speedway, Idlewild and Soak Zone, and Independence Mall at the Independence National Historical Park.

Route description

West Virginia to Pittsburgh
US 30 enters Pennsylvania from West Virginia in Beaver County, heading east along two-lane undivided Lincoln Highway. The road passes through rural areas and comes to an intersection with Pennsylvania Route 168 (PA 168) south of the borough of Hookstown, where it briefly becomes a divided highway. US 30 continues as an undivided road, turning northeast and then southeast before it comes to a junction with the western terminus of PA 151. The road heads southeast and crosses PA 18 in the community of Harshaville.

The route passes through Raccoon Creek State Park, where it turns south and crosses Raccoon Creek. The road leaves the state park and curves to the southeast.

US 30 enters Allegheny County and continues east along Lincoln Highway, reaching the community of Clinton. Here, the route turns to the southeast and comes to an interchange with the PA 576 toll road to the southwest of Pittsburgh International Airport, where the route briefly becomes a divided highway. The road continues southeast and reaches the community of Imperial, where it passes under the Montour Trail.

US 30 heads into developed areas, crossing Steubenville Pike, and comes to a partial cloverleaf interchange with the US 22 freeway, where US 30 heads east for a concurrency with US 22 and PA 978 continues southeast. US 22/US 30 run east as a four-lane freeway through suburban areas, coming to a partial cloverleaf interchange with Oakdale Road that serves Hankey Farms. Farther east, the freeway has a westbound exit and eastbound entrance with McKee Road that provides access to the borough of Oakdale to the south.

From here, US 22/US 30 turn east-northeast and reach an interchange that connects to Old Steubenville Pike, Bayer Road, and Montour Church Road. The freeway comes to an interchange with I-376, where US 22/US 30 head southeast concurrent with I-376 and PA 60 continues east (south) at-grade along a four-lane divided highway.

I-376/US 22/US 30 head southeast as the four-lane Penn-Lincoln Parkway, reaching an interchange with Ridge Road. The freeway comes to a westbound exit and eastbound entrance with Campbells Run Road, where it widens to six lanes. The highway curves to the east and meets I-79 at an interchange. Past this interchange, I-376/US 22/US 30 narrows to two lanes eastbound and head into the borough of Rosslyn Farms, turning southeast and coming to a westbound exit and eastbound entrance with Rosslyn Road that serves Rosslyn Farms.

The freeway crosses into the borough of Carnegie and reaches a bus-only eastbound exit and westbound entrance connecting to the PRT's West Busway before passing over a Pittsburgh and Ohio Central Railroad line. The highway passes over Chartiers Creek and another Pittsburgh and Ohio Central Railroad line as it leaves Carnegie and comes to the PA 50 interchange. I-376/US 22/US 30 narrows to four lanes, passing under a Wheeling and Lake Erie Railway line and curving northeast into the borough of Green Tree.

The freeway reaches the PA 121 interchange, where it gains a third westbound lane, and heads east, entering the city of Pittsburgh and coming to a westbound exit and eastbound entrance with Parkway Center Drive. The highway turns north and reaches a westbound exit and eastbound entrance with US 19, where US 19 joins I-376/US 22/US 30 on the Penn-Lincoln Parkway. Within this interchange, the road has an eastbound runaway truck ramp and passes under a ramp carrying both directions of US 19 Truck.

The freeway widens to six lanes and passes under a Wheeling and Lake Erie Railway line before reaching an interchange with PA 51, where US 19 Truck joins the Penn-Lincoln Parkway from PA 51 and US 19 splits from the Penn-Lincoln Parkway by heading north along with PA 51. Past this interchange, I-376/US 22/US 30/US 19 Truck narrows to four lanes and passes under Mount Washington in the Fort Pitt Tunnel.

After emerging from the Fort Pitt Tunnel, the freeway passes over Norfolk Southern's Mon Line and PA 837, coming to a westbound exit and eastbound entrance that connects to northbound PA 837. The Penn-Lincoln Parkway heads onto the Fort Pitt Bridge, a double-decker bridge carrying four lanes in each direction, and passes over CSX's Pittsburgh Subdivision railroad line and the Monongahela River as it heads into Downtown Pittsburgh at Point State Park and comes to an interchange with the southern terminus of I-279, where US 19 Truck heads north along I-279 and I-376/US 22/US 30 continue east along the Penn-Lincoln Parkway. The I-279 interchange also includes eastbound exits and westbound entrances with Boulevard of the Allies/Liberty Avenue and Fort Duquesne Boulevard that serve Downtown Pittsburgh.

The four-lane freeway heads east-southeast between Downtown Pittsburgh to the north and the Monongahela River to the south, reaching a partial interchange with Stanwix Street with no eastbound exit. The highway heads under the Smithfield Street Bridge and comes to an interchange with Grant Street, where it widens to six lanes. I-376/US 22/US 30 pass under the Panhandle Bridge carrying PRT's Pittsburgh Light Rail line and then the Liberty Bridge before the lanes split as it reaches a westbound ramp to Second Avenue north of the South Tenth Street Bridge and south of the Duquesne University campus.

Past this, the highway continues east between urban areas to the north and the Monongahela River to the south, with the Three Rivers Heritage Trail in the median. The freeway comes to an interchange connecting to PA 885 and Forbes Avenue north of the Birmingham Bridge, at which point the trail leaves the median of the freeway and the river heads further south from the freeway. I-376/US 22/US 30 head southeast, with the Three Rivers Heritage Trail parallel to the south, and reaches a westbound exit and eastbound entrance with PA 885. The highway turns east away from the trail and passes over the Allegheny Valley Railroad's P&W Subdivision line.

The freeway comes to an interchange with Beechwood Boulevard before it narrows to four lanes and passes under the southern portion of Squirrel Hill in the Squirrel Hill Tunnel. Past the tunnel, I-376/US 22/US 30 head through wooded areas and pass over Ninemile Run in Frick Park. The highway leaves Pittsburgh as it comes to an interchange with Braddock Avenue that serves the boroughs of Edgewood and Swissvale. The freeway continues east through suburban areas in Edgewood, passing under Norfolk Southern's Pittsburgh Line and the PRT's Martin Luther King Jr. East Busway.

I-376/US 22/US 30 turn to the northeast and head through a corner of the borough of Braddock Hills before entering the borough of Wilkinsburg. In Wilkinsburg, the freeway comes to an interchange with the southern terminus of PA 8, where US 30 splits from I-376/US 22 on the Penn-Lincoln Parkway by heading southeast at-grade on Ardmore Boulevard.

Pittsburgh to Breezewood

US 30 follows Ardmore Boulevard, a five-lane divided highway with two eastbound lanes and three westbound lanes, and enters the borough of Forest Hills, running through suburban development as it curves to the south. The road narrows to two westbound lanes before it curves to the southeast. The route turns to the south-southeast and passes through the center of Forest Hills.

US 30 gains a third eastbound lane before it skirts the border between the borough of North Braddock to the west and the borough of Chalfant to the east as it comes to an eastbound exit and westbound entrance with Electric Avenue. Past this interchange, the route becomes four-lane undivided Lincoln Highway and heads south, crossing into the borough of East Pittsburgh. The road crosses over Bessemer Avenue on a bridge before it curves southeast and heads onto the George Westinghouse Bridge, where it passes over Braddock Avenue, a Union Railroad line, Norfolk Southern's Pittsburgh Line, Turtle Creek, and Norfolk Southern's Port Perry Branch.

After passing over Turtle Creek, US 30 leaves East Pittsburgh, turning into a divided highway and passing over East Pittsburgh Mc