# Scoring rule

In decision theory, a scoring rule provides a summary measure for the evaluation of probabilistic predictions or forecasts. It is applicable to tasks in which predictions assign probabilities to events, i.e. one issues a probability distribution  as prediction. This includes probabilistic classification of a set of mutually exclusive outcomes or classes.

On the other side, a scoring function provides a summary measure for the evaluation of point predictions, i.e. one predicts a property or functional , like the expectation or the median.

Scoring rules and scoring functions can be thought of as "cost function" or "loss function". They are evaluated as empirical mean of a given sample, simply called score. Scores of different predictions or models can then be compared to conclude which model is best.

If a cost is levied in proportion to a proper scoring rule, the minimal expected cost corresponds to reporting the true set of probabilities. Proper scoring rules are used in meteorology, finance, and pattern classification where a forecaster or algorithm will attempt to minimize the average score to yield refined, calibrated probabilities (i.e. accurate probabilities).

Motivation 

Since the metrics in Evaluation of binary classifiers are not evaluating the calibration, scoring rules which can do so are needed. These scoring rules can be used as loss functions in empirical risk minimization.

Definition 
Consider a sample space , a σ-algebra  of subsets of  and a convex class  of probability measures on . A function defined on  and taking values in the extended real line, , is -quasi-integrable if it is measurable with
respect to  and is quasi-integrable with respect to all .

Probabilistic forecast 
A probabilistic forecast is any probability measure .

Scoring rule 
A scoring rule is any extended real-valued function  such that  is -quasi-integrable for all .  represents the loss or penalty when the forecast  is issued and the observation  materializes.

Point forecast 
A point forecast is a functional, i.e. a potentially set-valued mapping .

Scoring function 
A scoring function is any real-valued function  where  represents the loss or penalty when the point forecast  is issued and the observation  materializes.

Orientation 
Scoring rules  and scoring functions  are negatively (positively) oriented if smaller (larger) values mean better. Here we adhere to negative orientation, hence the association with "loss".

Expected Score 
We write for the expected score under

Sample average score 

Given random samples  and corresponding forecasts  or  (e.g. forecasts from a single model), one calculates the (importance sample) estimated expected score as

 
or
 

Average scores are used to compare and rank different forecast(er)s or models.

Propriety and consistency 
Strictly proper scoring rules and strictly consistent scoring functions encourage honest forecasts by maximization of the expected reward: If a forecaster is given a reward of  if  realizes (e.g. ), then the highest expected reward (lowest score) is obtained by reporting the true probability distribution.

Proper scoring rules 
We write for the expected score under 

 

A scoring rule  is proper relative to  if (assuming negative orientation)

  for all .

It is strictly proper if the above equation holds with equality if and only if .

Consistent scoring functions 
A scoring function  is consistent for the functional  relative to the class  if

  for all , all  and all .

It is strictly consistent if it is consistent and equality in the above equation implies that .

Example application of scoring rules 

An example of probabilistic forecasting is in meteorology where a weather forecaster may give the probability of rain on the next day. One could note the number of times that a 25% probability was quoted, over a long period, and compare this with the actual proportion of times that rain fell. If the actual percentage was substantially different from the stated probability we say that the forecaster is poorly calibrated. A poorly calibrated forecaster might be encouraged to do better by a bonus system. A bonus system designed around a proper scoring rule will incentivize the forecaster to report probabilities equal to his personal beliefs.

In addition to the simple case of a binary decision, such as assigning probabilities to 'rain' or 'no rain', scoring rules may be used for multiple classes, such as 'rain', 'snow', or 'clear', or continuous responses like the amount of rain per day.

The image to the right shows an example of a scoring rule, the logarithmic scoring rule, as a function of the probability reported for the event that actually occurred. One way to use this rule would be as a cost based on the probability that a forecaster or algorithm assigns, then checking to see which event actually occurs.

Examples of proper scoring rules 
There are an infinite number of scoring rules, including entire parameterized families of strictly proper scoring rules. The ones shown below are simply popular examples.

Categorical variables 
For a categorical response variable with  mutually exclusive events, , a probabilistic forecaster or algorithm will return a probability vector  with a probability for each of the  outcomes.

Logarithmic score 

The logarithmic scoring rule is a local strictly proper scoring rule. This is also the negative of surprisal, which is commonly used as a scoring criterion in Bayesian inference; the goal is to minimize expected surprise. This scoring rule has strong foundations in information theory.

Here, the score is calculated as the logarithm of the probability estimate for the actual outcome. That is, a prediction of 80% that correctly proved true would receive a score of . This same prediction also assigns 20% likelihood to the opposite case, and so if the prediction proves false, it would receive a score based on the 20%: . The goal of a forecaster is to maximize the score and for the score to be as large as possible, and −0.22 is indeed larger than −1.6.

If one treats the truth or falsity of the prediction as a variable  with value 1 or 0 respectively, and the expressed probability as , then one can write the logarithmic scoring rule as . Note that any logarithmic base may be used, since strictly proper scoring rules remain strictly proper under linear transformation. That is:

is strictly proper for all .

Brier/Quadratic score 
The quadratic scoring rule is a strictly proper scoring rule

where  is the probability assigned to the correct answer and  is the number of classes.

The Brier score, originally proposed by Glenn W. Brier in 1950, can be obtained by an affine transform from the quadratic scoring rule.

Where  when the th event is correct and  otherwise and  is the number of classes.

An important difference between these two rules is that a forecaster should strive to maximize the quadratic score  yet minimize the Brier score . This is due to a negative sign in the linear transformation between them.

Hyvärinen scoring rule 
The Hyvärinen scoring function (of a density p) is defined by

Where  denotes the Hessian trace and  denotes the gradient. This scoring rule can be used to computationally simplify parameter inference and address Bayesian model comparison with arbitrarily-vague priors. It was also used to introduce new information-theoretic quantities beyond the existing information theory.

Spherical score 
The spherical scoring rule is also a strictly proper scoring rule

Continuous variables

Continuous ranked probability score 

The continuous ranked probability score (CRPS) is a strictly proper scoring rule much used in Meteorology. It is defined as

where F is the forecast cumulative distribution function and  is the observation. Note that the forecast estimates multiple probabilities, so that a cumulative distribution function F arises.

Interpretation of proper scoring rules 
All proper scoring rules are equal to weighted sums (integral with a non-negative weighting functional) of the losses in a set of simple two-alternative decision problems that use the probabilistic prediction, each such decision problem having a particular combination of associated cost parameters for false positive and false negative decisions.  A strictly proper scoring rule corresponds to having a nonzero weighting for all possible decision thresholds.  Any given proper scoring rule is equal to the expected losses with respect to a particular probability distribution over the decision thresholds; thus the choice of a scoring rule corresponds to an assumption about the probability distribution of decision problems for which the predicted probabilities will ultimately be employed, with for example the quadratic loss (or Brier) scoring rule corresponding to a uniform probability of the decision threshold being anywhere between zero and one. The classification accuracy score (percent classified correctly), a single-threshold scoring rule which i