# Arabic alphabet

The Arabic alphabet (,   or , ), or Arabic abjad, is the Arabic script as specifically codified for writing the Arabic language. It is written from right-to-left in a cursive style, and includes 28 letters, of which most have contextual letterforms. The Arabic alphabet is considered an abjad, with only consonants required to be written; due to its optional use of diacritics to notate vowels, it is considered an impure abjad.

Consonants
The basic Arabic alphabet contains 28 letters. Forms using the Arabic script to write other languages added and removed letters: for example Persian, Ottoman Turkish, Kurdish, Urdu, Sindhi, Azerbaijani, Malay, Pashto, Punjabi, Uyghur, Arwi and Arabi Malayalam  all have additional letters in their alphabets. There are no distinct upper and lower case letterforms.

Many letters look similar but are distinguished from one another by dots () above or below their central part (). These dots are an integral part of a letter, since they distinguish between letters that represent different sounds. For example, the Arabic letters  ,  , and   have the same basic shape, but with one dot added below, two dots added above, and three dots added above respectively. The letter   also has the same form in initial and medial forms, with one dot added above, though it is somewhat different in its isolated and final forms.

Both printed and written Arabic are cursive, with most letters within a word directly joined to adjacent letters.

Alphabetical order
There are two main collating sequences ('alphabetical orderings') for the Arabic alphabet: , and .

The original  order derives from that used by the Phoenician alphabet, and is therefore reminiscent of the orderings of other alphabets, such as those in Hebrew and Greek. With this ordering, letters are also used as numbers known as abjad numerals, possessing the same numerological codes as in Hebrew gematria and Greek isopsephy.

The  or  order is used when sorting lists of words and names, such as in phonebooks, classroom lists, and dictionaries. The ordering groups letters by the graphical similarity of the glyphs' shapes.

Abjadi 
The  order is not a simple correspondence with the earlier north Semitic alphabetic order, as it has a position corresponding to the Aramaic letter samek , which has no cognate letter in the Arabic alphabet historically.

The loss of  was compensated for by:
In the Mashriqi abjad sequence, the letter shin  was split into two Arabic letters,   and  , the latter of which took the place of . 
In the Maghrebi abjad sequence, the letter   was split into two independent Arabic letters,   and  , with the latter taking the place of .

The six other letters that do not correspond to any north Semitic letter are placed at the end.

This is commonly vocalized as follows:
 .
Another vocalization is:
 

This can be vocalized as:

Modern dictionaries and other reference books do not use the  order to sort alphabetically; instead, the newer  order is used wherein letters are partially grouped together by similarity of shape. The  order is never used as numerals.

In the  order (replaced recently  by the Mashriqi order, (though still used in many Quranic schools in Algeria) the sequence is:

In Abu Muhammad al-Hasan al-Hamdani's encyclopedia  , the letter sequence is:

Letter forms

The Arabic alphabet is always cursive and letters vary in shape depending on their position within a word. Letters can exhibit up to four distinct forms corresponding to an initial, medial (middle), final, or isolated position (IMFI). While some letters show considerable variations, others remain almost identical across all four positions. Generally, letters in the same word are linked together on both sides by short horizontal lines, but six letters () can only be linked to their preceding letter. For example,  (Ararat) has only isolated forms because each letter cannot be connected to its following one. In addition, some letter combinations are written as ligatures (special shapes), notably  , which is the only mandatory ligature (the un-ligated combination  is considered difficult to read).

Table of basic letters

Notes

 See the article Romanization of Arabic for details on various transliteration schemes. Arabic language speakers may usually not follow a standardized scheme when transcribing words or names. Some Arabic letters which do not have an equivalent in English (such as ق) are often spelled as numbers when Romanized. Also names are regularly transcribed as pronounced locally, not as pronounced in Literary Arabic (if they were of Arabic origin).
 Regarding pronunciation, the phonemic values given are those of Modern Standard Arabic, which is taught in schools and universities. In practice, pronunciation may vary considerably from region to region. For more details concerning the pronunciation of Arabic, consult the articles Arabic phonology and varieties of Arabic.
 The names of the Arabic letters can be thought of as abstractions of an older version where they were meaningful words in the Proto-Semitic language. Names of Arabic letters may have quite different names popularly.
 Six letters () do not have a distinct medial form and have to be written with their final form without being connected to the next letter. Their initial form matches the isolated form. The following letter is written in its initial form, or isolated form if it is the final letter in the word.
 The letter  originated in the Phoenician alphabet as a consonant-sign indicating a glottal stop. Today it has lost its function as a consonant, and, together with  and , is a mater lectionis, a consonant sign standing in for a long vowel (see below), or as support for certain diacritics ( and ).
 Arabic currently uses a diacritic sign, , called , to denote the glottal stop , written alone or with a carrier:
 alone: 
 with a carrier:  (above or under an ),  (above a ),  (above a dotless  or ).

In academic work, the  () is transliterated with the modifier letter right half ring (ʾ), while the modifier letter left half ring (ʿ) transliterates the letter  (), which represents a different sound, not found in English.

The  has a single form, since it is never linked to a preceding or following letter. However, it is sometimes combined with a , , or , and in that case the carrier behaves like an ordinary , , or .

Variations

Alif

Modified letters
The following are not individual letters, but rather different contextual variants of some of the Arabic letters.

Ligatures

The use of ligature in Arabic is common. There is one compulsory ligature, that for  ل +  ا, which exists in two forms. All other ligatures, of which there are many, are optional.

A more complex ligature that combines as many as seven distinct components is commonly used to represent the word .

The only ligature within the primary range of Arabic script in Unicode (U+06xx) is  + . This is the only one compulsory for fonts and word-processing. Other ranges are for compatibility to older standards and contain other ligatures, which are optional.
  + 
 
Note: Unicode also has in its Presentation Form B FExx range a code for this ligature. If your browser and font are configured correctly for Arabic, the ligature displayed above should be identical to this one, U+FEFB ARABIC LIGATURE LAM WITH ALEF ISOLATED FORM:
 

 U+0640 ARABIC TATWEEL +  + 
 
Note: Unicode also has in its Presentation Form B U+FExx range a code for this ligature. If your browser and font are configured correctly for Arabic, the ligature displayed above should be identical to this one:
 U+FEFC ARABIC LIGATURE LAM WITH ALEF FINAL FORM
 

Another ligature in the Unicode Presentation Form A range U+FB50 to U+FDxx is the special code for glyph for the ligature  ("God"), U+FDF2 ARABIC LIGATURE ALLAH ISOLATED FORM:
 

This is a work-around for the shortcomings of most text processors, which are incapable of displaying the correct vowel marks for the word  in Koran. Because Arabic script is used to write other texts rather than Koran only, rendering  +  +  as the previous ligature is considered faulty.

If one of a number of the fonts (Noto Naskh Arabic, mry_KacstQurn, KacstOne, Nadeem, DejaVu Sans, Harmattan, Scheherazade, Lateef, Iranian Sans, Baghdad, DecoType Naskh) is installed on a computer (Iranian Sans is supported by Wikimedia web-fonts), the word will appear without diacritics.
  +  +  = LILLĀH (meaning "to Allāh [only to God]")
   or   لله 
  +  +  +  = ALLĀH (the Arabic word for "god")
   or   الله 
  +  +  + U+0651 ARABIC SHADDA + U+0670 ARABIC LETTER SUPERSCRIPT ALEF + 
  اللّٰه   (DejaVu Sans and KacstOne don't show the added superscript Alef)

An attempt to show them on the faulty fonts without automatically adding the gemination mark and the superscript alif, although may not display as desired on all browsers, is by adding the U+200d (Zero width joiner) after the first or second 
 ( +)  +  + U+200d ZERO WIDTH JOINER + 
    ‎

Gemination

Gemination is the