# Women's Flat Track Derby Association

The Women's Flat Track Derby Association (WFTDA) is the international governing body for the sport of women's flat track roller derby. It sets the international standards for rankings, rules, and competition in the sport, and provides guidance and resources to aid development of roller derby.

The organization was founded in April 2004 as the United Leagues Coalition (ULC), but was renamed in November 2005. It is registered in Raleigh, North Carolina as a 501(c)(6) Business League organization, a type of nonprofit organization.

History
In 2004, the United Leagues Coalition (ULC) was an informal electronic message board through which established leagues compared notes in order to prepare for interleague play, and exchanged information to help developing leagues.

The ULC evolved into a more formal organization in July 2005, when representatives of 20 leagues met in Chicago, Illinois to discuss establishing a governing body for women's flat-track roller derby. At the meeting, a voting system and set of goals was established, and a timeline delineated for facilitating interleague play. Among the actions from this meeting was the production of a standard track design, and an agreed ruleset. In early 2006, a track design and rules were published on the organization's fledgling website.

In November 2005, the ULC voted to change its name to the Women's Flat Track Derby Association (WFTDA), with an initial membership of 22 leagues. 

By early 2006, the organization had grown to 30 leagues, a cap decided upon at the July 2005 meeting. In February that year, soon after the initial membership requirements were published (and following the fragmentation of several leagues), a "multi-league per city" clause was added. Throughout the first half of the year the clause was listed as a requirement for membership, however a statement was issued in June 2006 labelling the policy as "unofficial". The WFTDA intimated that the policy was in place due to concerns about the impact on goodwill between member leagues of competition for support in the same city, and that having multiple leagues in the same city could undermine the organization's goals of fostering the development of the sport by sharing proprietary information by potentially limiting the sharing of competitive information.
Around this time, induction of new member leagues was put on hold until processes could be discussed at the second annual meeting, held in St. Paul, Minnesota in July 2006. At this meeting the membership application process, membership requirements and policies, rules, rankings and plans for tournaments were finalized. The WFTDA opened its doors to new members in September 2006, again capped at 30. This limit was reached by September 2008.

From its inception, membership of the WFTDA was only open to the US, but was opened up to leagues from Canada in February 2008. In January 2009 Montreal Roller Derby became the WFTDA's 66th member league and the first Canadian league admitted as a member and was placed in the East region. That same month, the WFTDA announced it would stop accepting applications for new membership from February until July, so that it could concentrate on internal restructuring in order to, among other things, "grow the scope" of the organization. 

In May 2009, the first sanctioned international WFTDA game was played between Montreal Roller Derby and Harrisburg Area Roller Derby at the Olympic Skating Center in Enola, Pennsylvania. Shortly thereafter, in November 2009, the WFTDA opened for worldwide membership and the London Rollergirls became the first league outside North America to join as Apprentice members.

In March 2012, Bear City Roller Derby from Berlin, Germany became the WFTDA's first full member league in continental Europe. In June 2013 the Rock n Roller Queens of Bogota, Colombia became the first full member South American league. The Tokyo Roller Girls and Kokeshi Roller Dolls became the first full member leagues in Asia.

Mission statement 
The WFTDA governs and promotes the sport of flat track roller derby and revolutionizes the role of women in sports through the collective voice of its member leagues around the world.

Statement About Gender 
In November 2015, WFTDA issued a statement broadening its discrimination protections for gender identity to include transgender women, intersex women, and gender-expansive participants.

Anti-Racism 
A statement was issued by the Board of Directors on 17 June 2020, committing the WFTDA to becoming an actively anti-racist organization, and setting the same expectation of all its partners and member leagues. This is an ongoing work plan under the auspices of the newly developed Anti-Racism Team (ART).

Organization 
The WFTDA in its current incarnation began as a group of 22 leagues in November 2005, born out of the United Leagues Coalition (ULC). Membership expanded to 30 leagues by early 2006, and was held at this number by a temporary pause on new memberships until September 2006. A vote in a meeting that July opened membership to a maximum of sixty leagues; by late August 2007 WFTDA membership was up to 43 leagues, and reached the target of 60 by September 2008.

In July 2017, the WFTDA surpassed over 400 member leagues and as of March 2023, there were 443 member leagues on six continents.

New Member Program 
Prospective WFTDA member leagues can apply to join the organization as long as they meet the following requirements: 

 Managed by at least 67% league skaters who identify as women or gender expansive, as detailed in the WFTDA Gender Statement.
 51% owned by league skaters who identify as women or gender expansive, as detailed in the WFTDA Gender Statement.
 Governed by democratic principles and practices.
 Competitors must play by the Rules of Flat Track Roller Derby.
 At least fifteen skaters who are skating at least two hours a week.
 Each member league must have one charter team.
 This charter team must include only skaters who identify as women or gender expansive, as detailed in the WFTDA Gender Statement.

Applications are reviewed twice yearly, in March and September.

WFTDA Apprentice Program 

The Women's Flat Track Derby Association Apprentice program was opened to aspiring member leagues in July 2009, replacing its traditional membership application process. Apprentice leagues were matched with an established WFTDA mentor league, to guide the apprentice through the processes and requirements necessary to become a full member. The intention was that upon completion of the program, apprentice leagues should have had the knowledge and recommendations needed to apply for full WFTDA membership.  

In June 2010, the WFTDA announced the first round of Apprentice league graduates: Demolition City Roller Derby, Garden State Rollergirls, ICT Roller Girls, London Rollergirls, New Hampshire Roller Derby, Paper Valley Roller Girls, Rockford Rage Women’s Roller Derby, Rollergirls of Southern Indiana, Silicon Valley Rollergirls, The Chicago Outfit and Wasatch Roller Derby.

In February 2019, the WFTDA announced it was replacing the Apprentice Program with a new New Member Program.

Management Structure 
Leadership of the organization is via an annually elected voluntary Board of Directors, consisting of a President, Vice-President, Secretary, Treasurer and four General Board Members.

The Board appoints an Officer for each of the six Pillars: Games, Membership, Marketing, Regulatory, Technology, and Officiating. These Pillars are represented by Committees made up of WFTDA League Representatives. 

WFTDA employs several staff members in the organization, as well as in its for-profit subsidiary, WFTDA Insurance (WFTDI) and its broadcast company Quad Media.

Media 
On 15 August 2007, the WFTDA announced it had struck a deal with the MAVTV network to record, edit and broadcast the 2007 Eastern Regional Tournament as a weekly series of 12 one-hour episodes (one episode per bout). In December 2019, an announcement was made that the WFTDA had established Quad Media, Inc. to further their goals to promote the sport of roller derby, reducing barriers to watching games and achieving excellence in the way the sport is presented.

The official WFTDA magazine fiveonfive began publication in September 2008.

Affiliations 
In September 2007, the WFTDA was admitted to USA Roller Sports (USARS) as a Class V member — a national amateur roller skating organization — and a WFTDA delegate joined the USARS Board of Directors. USARS has since developed its own separate set of rules, though WFTDA leagues can play against USARS leagues and there is an insurance reciprocity agreement between the organizations.

Impact of the COVID-19 Pandemic 
During the COVID-19 pandemic the WFTDA, in consultation with epidemiologists, formed a tiered activity "ladder" in order to keep the league operating during the crisis. The plan was hailed as "the best COVID-19 plan in sports".

Restrictions on gameplay and cancellation of