# Saghir Akhtar

Saghir Akhtar  is professor of pharmacology in the College of Medicine, Qatar University,  and editor in chief of the Journal of Drug Targeting.

Early life and education
Akhtar obtained a First Class honours degree in Pharmacy from the Leicester School of Pharmacy and his PhD degree from the University of Bath.

Academic career
From 1990-1991, he held a post-doctoral fellowship at UNC Medical School at Chapel Hill, North Carolina. He began his independent academic career at Aston University, firstly as lecturer from 1991–1997 and then as Reader in Pharmaceutical Sciences (1997–1999). He led a team studying DNA chip technology with a hope of combatting a form of brain cancer known as glioma. In 1997, he was a visiting fellow with Ed Southern in the Department of Biochemistry, Oxford University. He later became professor of Drug Delivery in the Welsh School of Pharmacy and Director for the Centre for Genome-based Therapeutics, Cardiff University, UK (2002–2006). More recently he was Professor of Pharmacology at Kuwait University Faculty of Medicine (2007-2017) where he also served as Director of the Graduate program.

He is the winner of the Lilly Prize (1996), the Pfizer Academic Award (1997), the British Pharmaceutical Conference Science Medal (1998), the Controlled Release Society (USA) Young Investigator Research Achievement Award (2001) and the Kappa Society Science Award (2005).

His current research interests include studying molecular pharmacology and signal transduction pathways involved in diabetes and/or hypertension-induced cardiovascular dysfunction, and understanding the biological and pharmaceutical challenges associated with the development of gene silencing nucleic acids (RNA interference/ siRNA/ antisense oligonucleotides) as potential therapeutic agents; and c) studying the toxicogenomics of novel drugs and non-viral drug delivery systems. Akhtar has also provided health advice for fasting during Ramadan.

References 

Alumni of the University of Bath
Academics of Aston University
Living people
Medical journal editors
Year of birth missing (living people)
Academic staff of Qatar University