# Norma Chávez

Norma Chávez (born 29 June 1960) served seven terms as a member of the Democratic Party in the Texas House of Representatives representing District 76 (which includes part of El Paso County). She was defeated for re-election by Naomi Gonzalez in the Democratic primary runoff held on April 13, 2010, and left office in January 2011.

In 2009, she opposed an El Paso county ethics bill, causing controversy. She also was featured on the Texas Monthly's "Dishonorable Mention" list because she engaged in a feud with state representative Marisa Marquez, whom she texted, "U ridiculed my education every drunk opportunity u had. U R not my friend" after Marquez had allegedly ridiculed her while drunk at a lobbyist party. She held a $3,529 graduation party, well attended by Republican and Democratic lawmakers (featuring mariachis, a barbecue lunch and cake) paid for by lobbyists.

Legislative career

During the 81st Legislature, Chávez initiated a bill to increase funding for the Skills Development Fund (SDF) job-training program, as well as authoring legislation which was signed into law that established reporting requirements for the investment portfolio of the Texas Emerging Technology Fund.  She enacted legislation which was signed into law allowing the Texas Workforce Commission to commit SDF training grants as an incentive to attract out of state employers who commit to establishing a place of business in Texas. Additionally, she passed legislation that allows for increased funding for school districts affected by Base Realignment and Closure, and regulations that require a feasibility study of establishing a law school in Texas' Border region, among other legislation she passed this session.

In previous sessions, she passed legislation that will establish four new courts in El Paso County. Also, she passed legislation that expands the Public Safety Commission from 3 to 5 members.  Chávez passed legislation that will let Texas compete with its neighboring states by allowing local communities to offer an exemption on goods-in-transit.  She passed legislation to streamline administrative processes at the Health and Human Services Commission by requiring the commissioner to develop guidelines and standards to allow for the use of electronic signatures. Chávez passed legislation that will require the Texas Bond Review Board to comprehensively review the effect of new debt authorizations and appropriations on debt services on the state's future capacity.

As the only person from the El Paso Delegation to serve on a budget-writing committee this session, Rep. Chávez secured the $48 million needed to open the Texas Tech Medical School in El Paso.  Additionally, she removed a bureaucratic and unnecessary contingency measure that would have required medical school officials to go before the state to ask for the remaining $18 million needed to open the school.  She also allocated the $9 million needed to restore solvency to the Fire Fighters' Pension Fund.  Rep. Chávez also secured the $1 million needed in debt service to issue $12 million in bonds for the Economically Distressed Areas Program (EDAP).  EDAP helps communities build water and wastewater services.

Chávez passed legislation that increased funding for the Skills Development Fund, from $25 million to $40 million, over the next biennium. Since its inception in 1996, the Skills Development program has helped over 2,500 employers create almost 55,000 jobs and has retrained about 85,000 workers.  Rep. Chávez also passed legislation to require local workforce development boards to include financial literacy education in worker retraining programs offered by the Texas Workforce Commission. She also passed legislation that improves the inspections of farm worker housing.

During 79th Legislature, Rep. Chávez along with Senator Eliot Shapleigh, Texas Civil Rights Project, ACLU, LULAC, MALDEF and many other organizations, stood up against and defeated legislation filed by a special interest group that would have disenfranchised over 75,000 voters from voting in El Paso County Water Improvement District No. 1 manager elections.

Rep. Chávez filed legislation and led the historical initiative in the Texas House of Representatives, declaring the first Texas holiday honoring a Latino, for civil rights activist and labor leader César Chávez.  She also honored Cesar Chávez by passing legislation that designated Loop 375 as the César Chávez Border Highway.   Rep. Chávez also filed and passed "the coyote bill" creating a state penalty for those individuals who use Texas highways, lands, and waterways to transport undocumented workers for a profit.  She passed an amendment to the Texas Constitution which prohibits home equity lenders from redlining in Texas. Additionally, Rep. Chávez introduced and passed a floor amendment to protect farm workers' right to know when pesticides are used and passed legislation protecting temporary workers from discrimination. Her initiatives in the field of health care include the authoring and passage of legislation establishing the Border Health Institute, legislation creating the Texas Tech Diabetes Research Center as well as legislation creating the Border Telemedicine Pilot Project.  She also passed legislation creating a NAFTA Impact Zone and providing technology training for workers displaced by NAFTA.

Rep. Chávez passed legislation that created the Center of Law and Border Studies at the University of Texas at El Paso and legislation that created El Paso County Criminal Courts at Law No. 1 and No. 2.

She passed historic legislation to expand the Texas Transportation Commission from 3 to 5 members, which increased border representation on transportation issues.

Community service

Chávez has served on the Executive Committees of the Greater El Paso Chamber of Commerce and the Business Opportunities Council and is currently a member of both the El Paso Hispanic Chamber of Commerce and the Greater El Paso Chamber of Commerce.

In 1995, as a citizen, Chávez organized a citizen lobby, including 170 small businesses, legislative members, small and big business interests, and citizens, which aided in the passage of state legislation that de-centralized automobile emissions testing.

By considering the health and environmental hazards, Chávez organized efforts to prevent nuclear waste from being disposed at Sierra Blanca.

A former public-action organizer for the United Farm Workers, Chávez has organized public support for a fair and just food supply and for issues affecting migrant farm workers. Chávez has received training by the Industrial Areas Foundation.

Chávez was a board member of Community Alliance Promoting Education Alternatives (CAPEA), an organization which seeks positive intervention and prevention in the lives of at-risk youth.

Chávez is a former board member of the Friends of the El Paso Museum of Art.

2009 lobbyist controversy  
On July 16, 2009, the El Paso Times reported that Chávez had her staff request that 17 lobbyists pay for a $3,500 celebration for her earning a Bachelor of Arts degree. The event had a Longhorn ice sculpture, mariachis, a barbecue lunch and cake. Chávez preferred not to disclose anything in this regard. 

One lobbyist, Claudia Russell who represented El Paso County, said she paid $150 to the party after Chávez's staff requested a contribution. "I don't know if I wanted to," Russell said. "I just kinda felt it was my duty to." On July 28, 2009, the El Paso Times published a letter by Russell that said, "Because these events are not unusual and because I attended the event, when asked, I mistakenly stated that I helped sponsor the event. After reviewing my records, I did not sponsor Rep. Chávez's graduation party. I confused it with an earlier event that I did help sponsor. I apologize for the mistake. But let me make one thing perfectly clear: I was not asked by Rep. Chávez's staff to contribute to the graduation party. Furthermore, I did not make a contribution." Chávez said she would not allow Russell into her office any more.

Russell said that she contributed to another of Chávez's parties, not the graduation party. Chávez claimed she was lying and wanted an apology. Chávez met with County Judge Anthony Cobos, County Commissioner Anna Perez and a top executive at Bickerstaff, Heath, Delgado, Acosta, the law firm that employs Russell. But the county's commissioners said a public apology was unnecessary and inappropriate. "This isn't about Claudia or the county," Perez said. "The story was about lobbyists paying for that party," County Commissioner Anna Perez said.

None of the lobbyists talked to the newspaper, and Chávez would not release their names.

Tom "Smithy" Smith, director of Public Citizen in Texas, told the paper: "She made a big darn deal out of it as one of the highlights of her life, so those that contributed are going to be on her good buddies' list."

Andrew Wheat, research director with the watchdog gro