# Panchala Kingdom (Mahabharata)

The Panchala (पञ्चाल Pañcāla) kingdom was one of the historical Mahajanapadas of ancient India (c. 30th to 4th centuries BC). It was annexed into the Nanda Empire during the reign of Mahapadma Nanda. Ahichchhatra was capital of northern Panchala and Kampilya was capital of southern Panchala.

Panchala in the Mahabharata

Geography 
The Panchala kingdom (Mahabharata) extends from the Himalayas in the north; to the Charmanwati river; with the Kuru, Surasena and Matsya kingdoms to the west; and the Naimisha Forest to the east. Later, Panchala was divided into Southern Panchala ("Panchala proper", centered at Kampilya, ruled by King Drupada, the father-in-law of Pandavas); and Northern Panchala (centered at Ahichatra, ruled by Ashwathama, the son of Drona. Drona was Drupada's friend who later became his enemy). The Ganges River separated the two Panchalas.

People from Panchala

In Mahabharata many figures were said to be natives of Panchala.

 Draupadi or Panchali : Wife of the Pandavas

 Dhrishtadyumna : Commander-in-Chief of the Pandavas in Kurukshetra War and brother of Panchali

 Drupada : Father of Panchali and Dhristadyumna

 Shikhandi or Sikhandin : Another daughter of Drupada (He married from Dasarna (See Dasarna Kingdom)

 Prishata : Father of Drupada.

 Satyajit : Commander-in-chief of Panchala army under king Drupada and second oldest son, alternately called Chitraratha in Mahabharata.

 Sage Dhaumya : Priest of the Pandavas.

 Aruni : A Brahmin boy from Panchala and disciple of sage Dhaumya.

Many other sons of Drupada (a total of 10) and other Panchala princes (like Yudhamanyu, Uttamaujas, Janamejaya etc.) were allied with the Pandavas in the Kurukshetra War.

Origin of Panchala Kingdom 
The lineage extending from King Puru, son of King Yayati to Santanu. The following passage from Mahabharata, that describes the Puru lineage of kings, shows the kinship of the Kurus and the Panchalas, both branched from the same line: "When Janamejaya wished to hear the history of kings who were descended from Puru. Vaisampayana narrated the lineage of kings in Puru’s line.".

Lineage of the Puru Kings up to the Panchala Kingdom 

Puru had by his wife, Paushti, three sons: Pravira, Iswara, and Raudraswa.

Pravira (perpetuator of the dynasty) had by his wife, Suraseni, a son Manasyu. Manasyu had by his wife, Sauviri, three sons: Sakta, Sahana, and Vagmi.

Raudraswa had by his wife, Apsara Misrakesi, ten sons (all who had sons): Richeyu, Kaksreyu, Vrikeyu, Sthandileyu, Vaneyu, Jaleyu, Tejeyu, Satyeyu, Dharmeyu and Sannateyu.

Richeyu, as Anadhrishti, succeeded them all. Anadhristi had a son, Matinara, the latter who was well-regarded and virtuous as king and performed the Rajasuya and the Ashwamedha. Matinara had four sons: Tansu, Mahan, Atiratha, and Druhyu.

Tansu (perpetuator of the Puru line) had a son, Ilina.

Ilina had by his wife, Rathantara, five sons: Dushyanta, Sura, Bhima, Pravasu, and Vasu; Dushyanta succeeded as king.

Dushyanta had by his wife, Sakuntala, an intelligent son who succeeded as Emperor Bharata. It is the name of the latter that is applied to the race of which he was the founder.

Bharata had with his three wives nine sons but he was not pleased with any of them. Bharata performed a great sacrifice and through the grace of Bharadwaja obtained a son, Bhumanyu, who was made his heir-apparent.

Bhumanyu had by his wife: Pushkarini, six sons: Suhotra, Suhotri, Suhavih, Sujeya, Diviratha and Kichika.

Suhotra, described as having a virtuous reign, had by his wife, Aikshaki, three sons: Ajamidha, Sumidha, and Purumidha. Ajamidha succeeded them all.

Ajamidha's son was Nila. The dynasty of Ajamidha stands as:

Nila
Susanti
Purujanu
Rksa
Bhrmyasva
Mudgala
Vadhryasva
Divodasa
Mitrayu
Maitreya Soma
Srnjaya
Cyavana Pancajana
Sudasa Somadatta
Sahadeva
Somaka
Jantu
Prsata
Drupada

War between Panchalas and the forefathers of Kurus 

The outcome of warring between the Kurus and Panchalas led the Kurus being exiled to the banks of the Sindhu.

Riksha became king being the elder of Jala and Rupina. Riksha had a son, Samvarana, the latter the perpetrator of the royal line.

During the reign of Samvarana, there was a great loss of people by famine, pestilence, drought, and disease.

The king of the Panchalas invaded during this time with four kinds of troops and ten Akshauhinis. Samvarana was exiled with his family and government in the forest along the Sindhu or Tapati river, the latter which extended to the foot of the western mountains. There the Bharatas lived for a thousand years.

Samvarana had with his wife, Tapati (?) (the daughter of Surya, a king of the Solar Dynasty), a son Kuru.

Then one day the sage Vasishtha, having become the priest, approached the exiled Bharata and made him the sovereign of the Kshatriyas. The king retook his old capital made all the monarchs pay tribute to him.

Kuru was exceedingly virtuous, and was made king by his people, the founding of the Kuru dynasty and the Kuru Kingdom. The field called Kurujangala is named after him and is where after becoming devoted to asceticism, he there practiced asceticism.

The sages in the line of Vasistha, were the priests of the Solar Dynasty of kings for many generations, especially the Ikshwakus. It is speculated that is why Samvarana took Vasistha as his priest, married from the Solar Dynasty. The history of Samvarana falling in love with Tapati while he lived near the Tapati river) was with the help of Maharashtra and Vasistha in getting the consent to marry from her father king Surya

Drupada becomes the king of Panchala 

The King Prishata of Northern Panchala, a great friend of Bharadwaja, had a son, named Drupada. Drupada would come every day to the hermitage of Bharadwaja to play and study with Drona. Prishata died, Drupada succeeded him as the king and then repudiated his friendship with Drona. Drupada insulted Drona by saying that Drona was not a king, but a poor Brahmana.

Partition of the Panchala Kingdom 

Drona defeated Drupada, by means of his disciple Arjuna and the other Kuru princes, to settle his old scores. Drona spoke as follows to the captive Drupada:-

Thou toldest me before that none who was not a king could be a king’s friend. Therefore is it, O Yajnasena (Drupada), that I retain half thy kingdom. Thou art the king of all the territory lying on the southern side of the Bhagirathi (Ganga), while I become king of all the territory on the north of that river. And, O Panchala, if it pleaseth thee, know me hence for thy friend.

On hearing these words, Drupada answered: Thou art of noble soul and great prowess. Therefore, O Brahmana, I am not surprised at what thou doest. I am very much gratified with thee, and I desire thy eternal friendship.

After this, Drona released the king of Panchala, and cheerfully performing the usual offices of regard, bestowed upon him half the kingdom. Thenceforth Drupada began to reside sorrowfully in the city of Kampilya within the province of Makandi on the banks of the Ganges filled with many towns and cities. And after his defeat by Drona, Drupada ruled the Southern Panchalas up to the bank of the Charmanwati river. Meanwhile Drona continued to reside in Ahichatra. Thus was the territory of Ahicchatra full of towns and cities, obtained by Arjuna, and bestowed upon Drona.

Higher status of Panchalas and Kurus in ancient India 

The Kurus and Panchalas were considered as foremost among the ruling tribes in ancient India, because they followed the Vedic religion in its dogmatic and purest form. Other tribes imitated the practices of these tribes and thus got accepted into the Vedic religions:

Commencing with the Panchalas, the Kauravas, the Naimishas (a forest-country to the east of Panchala), the Matsyas, all these, know what religion is. The old men among the Northerners, the Angas, the Magadhas, without themselves knowing what virtue is follow the practices of the Kuru-Panchalas.

The Kurus and the Panchalas comprehend from a half-uttered speech; the Salwas cannot comprehend until the whole speech is uttered. The Magadhas are comprehenders of signs; the Koshalas comprehend from what they see. The Mountaineers, like the Sivis, are very stupid.

The Yavanas are omniscient; the Suras are particularly so. The mlecchas are wedded to the creations of their own fancy that other peoples cannot understand.

The Panchalas observe the duties enjoined in the Vedas; the Kauravas observe truth; the Matsyas and the Surasenas perform sacrifices. Beginning with the Matsyas, the residents of the Kuru and the Panchala countries, the Naimishas as well and the other respectable peoples, the pious among all races are conversant with the eternal truths of religion. The Kauravas with the Panchalas, the Salwas, the Matsyas, the Naimishas, the Koshalas, the Kasapaundras, the Kalingas, the Magadhas, and the Chedis who are all highly blessed, know what the eternal religion is.

Territories and locations within the Panchala Kingdo