# Complex number

In mathematics, a complex number is an element of a number system that extends the real numbers with a specific element denoted , called the imaginary unit and satisfying the equation ; every complex number can be expressed in the form , where  and  are real numbers. Because no real number satisfies the above equation,  was called an imaginary number by René Descartes. For the complex number ,  is called the , and  is called the . The set of complex numbers is denoted by either of the symbols  or . Despite the historical nomenclature "imaginary", complex numbers are regarded in the mathematical sciences as just as "real" as the real numbers and are fundamental in many aspects of the scientific description of the natural world.

Complex numbers allow solutions to all polynomial equations, even those that have no solutions in real numbers. More precisely, the fundamental theorem of algebra asserts that every non-constant polynomial equation with real or complex coefficients has a solution which is a complex number. For example, the equation

has no real solution, since the square of a real number cannot be negative, but has the two nonreal complex solutions  and .

Addition, subtraction and multiplication of complex numbers can be naturally defined by using the rule  combined with the associative, commutative, and distributive laws. Every nonzero complex number has a multiplicative inverse. This makes the complex numbers a field that has the real numbers as a subfield. The complex numbers also form a real vector space of dimension two, with  as a standard basis.

This standard basis makes the complex numbers a Cartesian plane, called the complex plane. This allows a geometric interpretation of the complex numbers and their operations, and conversely expressing in terms of complex numbers some geometric properties and constructions. For example, the real numbers form the real line which is identified to the horizontal axis of the complex plane. The complex numbers of absolute value one form the unit circle. The addition of a complex number is a translation in the complex plane, and the multiplication by a complex number is a similarity centered at the origin. The complex conjugation is the reflection symmetry with respect to the real axis. The complex absolute value is a Euclidean norm.

In summary, the complex numbers form a rich structure that is simultaneously an algebraically closed field, a commutative algebra over the reals, and a Euclidean vector space of dimension two.

Definition

A complex number is a number of the form , where  and  are real numbers, and  is an indeterminate satisfying . For example,  is a complex number.

This way, a complex number is defined as a polynomial with real coefficients in the single indeterminate , for which the relation  is imposed. Based on this definition, complex numbers can be added and multiplied, using the addition and multiplication for polynomials. The relation  induces the equalities  and  which hold for all integers ; these allow the reduction of any polynomial that results from the addition and multiplication of complex numbers to a linear polynomial in , again of the form  with real coefficients 

The real number  is called the real part of the complex number ; the real number  is called its imaginary part. To emphasize, the imaginary part does not include a factor ; that is, the imaginary part is , not .

Formally, the complex numbers are defined as the quotient ring of the polynomial ring in the indeterminate , by the ideal generated by the polynomial  (see below).

Notation

A real number  can be regarded as a complex number , whose imaginary part is 0. A purely imaginary number  is a complex number , whose real part is zero. As with polynomials, it is common to write  for  and  for . Moreover, when the imaginary part is negative, that is, , it is common to write  instead of ; for example, for ,  can be written instead of .

Since the multiplication of the indeterminate  and a real is commutative in polynomials with real coefficients, the polynomial  may be written as  This is often expedient for imaginary parts denoted by expressions, for example, when  is a radical.

The real part of a complex number  is denoted by , , or ; the imaginary part of a complex number  is denoted by , , or  For example,

The set of all complex numbers is denoted by  (blackboard bold) or  (upright bold).

In some disciplines, particularly in electromagnetism and electrical engineering,  is used instead of  as  is frequently used to represent electric current. In these cases, complex numbers are written as , or .

Visualization

A complex number  can thus be identified with an ordered pair  of real numbers, which in turn may be interpreted as coordinates of a point in a two-dimensional space. The most immediate space is the Euclidean plane with suitable coordinates, which is then called complex plane or Argand diagram, named after Jean-Robert Argand. Another prominent space on which the coordinates may be projected is the two-dimensional surface of a sphere, which is then called Riemann sphere.

Cartesian complex plane
The definition of the complex numbers involving two arbitrary real values immediately suggests the use of Cartesian coordinates in the complex plane. The horizontal (real) axis is generally used to display the real part, with increasing values to the right, and the imaginary part marks the vertical (imaginary) axis, with increasing values upwards.

A charted number may be viewed either as the coordinatized point or as a position vector from the origin to this point. The coordinate values of a complex number  can hence be expressed in its Cartesian, rectangular, or algebraic form.

Notably, the operations of addition and multiplication take on a very natural geometric character, when complex numbers are viewed as position vectors: addition corresponds to vector addition, while multiplication (see below) corresponds to multiplying their magnitudes and adding the angles they make with the real axis. Viewed in this way, the multiplication of a complex number by  corresponds to rotating the position vector counterclockwise by a quarter turn (90°) about the origin—a fact which can be expressed algebraically as

Polar complex plane

Modulus and argument
An alternative option for coordinates in the complex plane is the polar coordinate system that uses the distance of the point  from the origin (), and the angle subtended between the positive real axis and the line segment  in a counterclockwise sense. This leads to the polar form 

of a complex number, where  is the absolute value of , and  is the argument of .

The absolute value (or modulus or magnitude) of a complex number  is

If  is a real number (that is, if ), then . That is, the absolute value of a real number equals its absolute value as a complex number.

By Pythagoras' theorem, the absolute value of a complex number is the distance to the origin of the point representing the complex number in the complex plane.

The argument of  (in many applications referred to as the "phase" ) is the angle of the radius  with the positive real axis, and is written as . As with the modulus, the argument can be found from the rectangular form  by applying the inverse tangent to the quotient of imaginary-by-real parts. By using a half-angle identity, a single branch of the arctan suffices to cover the range  of the -function, and avoids a more subtle case-by-case analysis

Normally, as given above, the principal value in the interval  is chosen. If the arg value is negative, values in the range  or  can be obtained by adding . The value of  is expressed in radians in this article. It can increase by any integer multiple of  and still give the same angle, viewed as subtended by the rays of the positive real axis and from the origin through . Hence, the arg function is sometimes considered as multivalued. The polar angle for the complex number 0 is indeterminate, but arbitrary choice of the polar angle 0 is common.

The value of  equals the result of atan2:

Together,  and  give another way of representing complex numbers, the polar form, as the combination of modulus and argument fully specify the position of a point on the plane. Recovering the original rectangular co-ordinates from the polar form is done by the formula called trigonometric form

Using Euler's formula this can be written as

Using the  function, this is sometimes abbreviated to

In angle notation, often used in electronics to represent a phasor with amplitude  and phase , it is written as

Complex graphs

When visualizing complex functions, both a complex input and output are needed. Because each complex number is represented in two dimensions, visually graphing a complex function would require the perception of a four dimensional space, which is possible only in projections. Because of this, other ways of visualizing complex functions have been designed.

In domain coloring the o