# Binomial theorem

In elementary algebra, the binomial theorem (or binomial expansion) describes the algebraic expansion of powers of a binomial. According to the theorem, it is possible to expand the polynomial  into a sum involving terms of the form , where the exponents  and  are nonnegative integers with , and the coefficient  of each term is a specific positive integer depending on  and .  For example, for ,

The coefficient  in the term of  is known as the binomial coefficient  or  (the two have the same value). These coefficients for varying  and  can be arranged to form Pascal's triangle. These numbers also occur in combinatorics, where  gives the number of different combinations of  elements that can be chosen from an -element set.  Therefore  is often pronounced as " choose ".

History
Special cases of the binomial theorem were known since at least the 4th century BC when Greek mathematician Euclid mentioned the special case of the binomial theorem for exponent . Greek mathematican Diophantus cubed various binomials, including .  Indian mathematican Aryabhata's method for finding cube roots, from around 510 CE, suggests that he knew the binomial formula for exponent .

Binomial coefficients, as combinatorial quantities expressing the number of ways of selecting  objects out of  without replacement, were of interest to ancient Indian mathematicians.  The earliest known reference to this combinatorial problem is the Chandaḥśāstra by the Indian lyricist Pingala (c. 200 BC), which contains a method for its solution.  The commentator Halayudha from the 10th century AD explains this method.  By the 6th century AD, the Indian mathematicians probably knew how to express this as a quotient , and a clear statement of this rule can be found in the 12th century text Lilavati by Bhaskara.

The first formulation of the binomial theorem and the table of binomial coefficients, to our knowledge, can be found in a work by Al-Karaji, quoted by Al-Samaw'al in his "al-Bahir". Al-Karaji described the triangular pattern of the binomial coefficients and also provided a mathematical proof of both the binomial theorem and Pascal's triangle, using an early form of mathematical induction.   The Persian poet and mathematician Omar Khayyam was probably familiar with the formula to higher orders, although many of his mathematical works are lost.  The binomial expansions of small degrees were known in the 13th century mathematical works of Yang Hui and also Chu Shih-Chieh.  Yang Hui attributes the method to a much earlier 11th century text of Jia Xian, although those writings are now also lost.

In 1544, Michael Stifel introduced the term "binomial coefficient" and showed how to use them to express  in terms of , via "Pascal's triangle".  Blaise Pascal studied the eponymous triangle comprehensively in his Traité du triangle arithmétique. However, the pattern of numbers was already known to the European mathematicians of the late Renaissance,  including Stifel, Niccolò Fontana Tartaglia, and Simon Stevin.

Isaac Newton is generally credited with discovering the generalized binomial theorem, valid for any rational exponent, in 1665.  It was discovered independently in 1670 by James Gregory.

Statement 
According to the theorem, it is possible to expand any nonnegative integer power of  into a sum of the form

where  is an integer and each  is a positive integer known as a binomial coefficient. (When an exponent is zero, the corresponding power expression is taken to be 1 and this multiplicative factor is often omitted from the term.  Hence one often sees the right hand side written as .) This formula is also referred to as the binomial formula or the binomial identity. Using summation notation, it can be written as

The final expression follows from the previous one by the symmetry of  and  in the first expression, and by comparison it follows that the sequence of binomial coefficients in the formula is symmetrical.  A simple variant of the binomial formula is obtained by substituting  for , so that it involves only a single variable. In this form, the formula reads

or equivalently

or more explicitly

Examples 

Here are the first few cases of the binomial theorem:

In general, for the expansion of  on the right side in the th row (numbered so that the top row is the 0th row):
 the exponents of  in the terms are  (the last term implicitly contains );
 the exponents of  in the terms are  (the first term implicitly contains );
 the coefficients form the th row of Pascal's triangle;
 before combining like terms, there are  terms  in the expansion (not shown); 
 after combining like terms, there are  terms, and their coefficients sum to .
An example illustrating the last two points:  with .

A simple example with a specific positive value of :

A simple example with a specific negative value of :

Geometric explanation 

For positive values of  and , the binomial theorem with  is the geometrically evident fact that a square of side  can be cut into a square of side , a square of side , and two rectangles with sides  and . With , the theorem states that a cube of side  can be cut into a cube of side , a cube of side , three  rectangular boxes, and three  rectangular boxes.

In calculus, this picture also gives a geometric proof of the derivative  if one sets  and  interpreting  as an infinitesimal change in , then this picture shows the infinitesimal change in the volume of an -dimensional hypercube,  where the coefficient of the linear term (in ) is  the area of the  faces, each of dimension :

Substituting this into the definition of the derivative via a difference quotient and taking limits means that the higher order terms,  and higher, become negligible, and yields the formula  interpreted as
"the infinitesimal rate of change in volume of an -cube as side length varies is the area of  of its -dimensional faces".
If one integrates this picture, which corresponds to applying the fundamental theorem of calculus, one obtains Cavalieri's quadrature formula, the integral  – see proof of Cavalieri's quadrature formula for details.

Binomial coefficients 

The coefficients that appear in the binomial expansion are called binomial coefficients. These are usually written  and pronounced " choose ".

Formulas 
The coefficient of  is given by the formula

which is defined in terms of the factorial function . Equivalently, this formula can be written

with  factors in both the numerator and denominator of the fraction. Although this formula involves a fraction, the binomial coefficient  is actually an integer.

Combinatorial interpretation 
The binomial coefficient  can be interpreted as the number of ways to choose  elements from an -element set. This is related to binomials for the following reason: if we write  as a product

then, according to the distributive law, there will be one term in the expansion for each choice of either  or  from each of the binomials of the product. For example, there will only be one term , corresponding to choosing  from each binomial. However, there will be several terms of the form , one for each way of choosing exactly two binomials to contribute a . Therefore, after combining like terms, the coefficient of  will be equal to the number of ways to choose exactly  elements from an -element set.

Proofs

Combinatorial proof

Example 
The coefficient of  in

equals  because there are three  strings of length 3 with exactly two s, namely,

corresponding to the three 2-element subsets of , namely,

where each subset specifies the positions of the  in a corresponding string.

General case 
Expanding  yields the sum of the  products of the form  where each  is  or . Rearranging factors shows that each product equals  for some  between  and . For a given , the following are proved equal in succession:
 the number of copies of  in the expansion
 the number of -character  strings having  in exactly  positions
 the number of -element subsets of 
  either by definition, or by a short combinatorial argument if one is defining  as 
This proves the binomial theorem.

Inductive proof 
Induction yields another proof of the binomial theorem. When , both sides equal , since  and   Now suppose that the equality holds for a given ; we will prove it for .  For , let  denote the coefficient of  in the polynomial .  By the inductive hypothesis,  is a polynomial in  and  such that  is  if , and  otherwise.  The identity

shows that  is also a polynomial in  and , and

since if , then  and . Now, the right hand side is

by Pascal's identity. On the other hand, if , then  and , so we get . Thus

which is the inductive hypothesis with  substituted for  and so completes the inductive step.

Generalizations

Newton's generalized binomial theorem 

Around 1665, Isaac Newton generalized the binomial theorem to allow real exponents other than nonnegative integers. (The same generalization also applies to complex exponents.) In this generalization, the finite sum is replaced by an