# Operation Protea

Operation Protea was a military operation during the South African Border War and Angolan Civil War in which South African Defence Forces (SADF) destroyed a number of South West Africa People's Organisation (SWAPO) bases in Angola. During the operation, which took place from 23 August to 4 September 1981, up to 5,000 SADF soldiers occupied Cunene province, Angola.

Planning
Operation Protea was launched on 23 August 1981. Its objectives were to destroy the SWAPO command and training centre at Xangongo and its logistic bases at Xangongo and Ongiva.

Xangongo, located at  was the headquarters of SWAPO's "north-western front" from where it directed SWAPO units operating primarily in the Kaokoland and in western and central Ovamboland. There were also other SWAPO bases, which were used as supply depots and training bases for SWAPO recruits, sited to the south and southeast of the town.

Ongiva, a town located less than fifty kilometres north of the Angola-South West Africa border at , was an important SWAPO logistical and personnel centre which supported operations in central and eastern Ovamboland and in the Kavangoland.

Both Xangongo and Ongiva were key bases in supporting SWAPO's war effort in South West Africa, because of their location close to its border. Their destruction would undermine SWAPO's ability to conduct operations in their "north-western front" and also have a psychological impact by reinforcing the message of Operation Reindeer to SWAPO that it no longer had the luxury of sanctuaries in southern Angola.

Order of Battle.

South African forces
Brigadier Rudolf Badenhorst – Overall Commander

Task Force Alpha
Colonel Joep Joubert – TF Commander

Battle Group 10 – Commandant Roland de Vries
 one Mechanised infantry company – 61 Mechanised Battalion
 one Parachute company
 one Armoured car squadron
 one Mortar platoon
 one 140mm artillery troop
 one combat engineer troop

Battle Group 20 – Commandant Johan Dippenaar
 one mechanised infantry company
 two motorised infantry companies
 one armoured car squadron – two Ratel-90 troops and two Eland-90 troops
 one medium artillery troop
 one 81mm mortar platoon
 one field engineer troop
 one assault pioneer platoon
 two Protection platoons

Battle Group 30 – Commandant Chris Serfontein
 three motorised infantry companies – National service units
 one armoured car squadron – Eland-90 
 120m mortar battery – 43 Light Battery
 81mm mortar platoon
 Field engineer troop
 two protection platoons

Battle Group 40 – Commandant Deon Ferreira
 three motorised infantry companies – 32 Battalion
 one armoured car squadron – Eland-90
 120mm mortar battery – 41 Light Battery
 four anti-tank teams
 two protection platoons – 1 Platoon from B company of 202 Battalion and 1 other platoon

Combat Team Mamba (Mobile Reserve) – Commandant Johnny Coetzer
 one mechanised company – 61 Mechanised
 one anti-tank platoon – Ratel-90 – 61 Mechanised
 two Ratel 60 sections
 140mm G-2 artillery troop – 1 Medium Battery (4 Field Regiment)

Task Force Bravo
Colonel Vos Benade – TF Commander

Battle Group 50 – Commandant Frans Botes
 four motorised companies – 201 Battalion
 81mm Mortar platoon

Battle Group 60 – Commandant James Hills
 three motorised infantry companies – 32 Battalion
 one 81mm Mortar platoon

Mobile Reserve – Commandant Johnnie Coetzer
 1 Parachute Battalion – two companies and one pathfinder platoon
 52 Reconnaissance Regiment – one special forces team

Battle Group 30
 detached from TF Alpha

Battle Group 40
 detached from TF Alpha

Angolan forces
11 Brigade
based at Ongiva and is the district headquarters
 two infantry battalions
 two anti-aircraft battalions – 23mm guns
 one tank company – T-34
 one armoured-car company – BTR-23
 one artillery battery – 82mm and 76mm guns

19 Brigade
based at Xangongo with elements at Humbe and Peu Peu
 two infantry companies
 one tank company – T-34
 one armoured car squadron – BTR-23
 one artillery battery
 three 122mm rocket launchers
 seven anti-aircraft guns

21 Brigade
 based at Cahama

Soviet military advisors
 based at Xangongo and Ongiva

SWAPO forces
 Xangongo – 500 SWAPO regulars and 500 semi-regulars
 Between Cahama and Humbe – one SWAPO battalion
 Ongiva – SWAPO headquarters

Battles – Task Force Alpha
On 23 August, the SADF units left the bases and headed towards the Angolan border. On the night of 23 August, Battle Group 10 would cross at Ruacana while Battle Groups 20, 30 and 40 would cross at Ombalantu. A South African special forces team was placed in position to begin monitoring the Cahama/Xangongo highway for any enemy reinforcements. The same day the SADF left their bases, the South African Air Force (SAAF) launched a strike with various aircraft against air-defence targets in Angola at Cahama and Chibemba. This was called Operation Konyn.

Humbe
Battle Group 10 crossed into Angola at Ruacana just before midnight on 23 August and headed northwards through dense bush to their forming point which was 12 km north-west of Humbe. They arrived at their form-up point on time despite encountering obstacles not shown on their maps. At this point they found that H-Hour had been moved back one hour to 11h30 due to the eastern battle groups of Task Force Alpha encountering navigation problems on their march to Xangongo. Commandant de Vries divided his force into two combat teams, one of Ratel-20s, Ratel-90s and 81mm mortars in the attack group and the second team as a mobile reserve of Buffels and Eland-90's, with the 140 mm artillery in the rear. As Battle Group 10 followed the road south-east to Humbe, the SAAF began to bomb the town of Xangongo.  The group's artillery began firing 140 mm artillery rounds at Humbe but was informed by their aerial spotter plane that the trenches close to the town seem abandoned and nor was there any enemy to the battle group's rear in the direction of Cahama. The artillery fire was ceased and their alternative target at Techiulo, that was closer, was then taken without incident as FAPLA soldiers fled on seeing the battle group arrive, leaving behind a group of Irish Catholic nuns at the mission station in the village. By 12h30 the group was heading back towards Humbe passing by the empty trenches and sighting no fleeing enemy from Xangongo, entered the empty town of Humbe. They soon left the town and positioned themselves within 3 km of the bridge over the Cunene River and Xangongo. The two combat teams of Ratel-20's and paratroopers were then sent closer to the river and began to encounter contact with FAPLA troops fleeing Xangongo. By dusk the river plain was under the battle group's control and they laagered there overnight though sporadic fire could be heard overnight from Xangongo. Apart from being woken and called to arms when a FAPLA column attempted a break-out from Xangongo via the bridge, this was taken care of by the other battle groups and they were stood down and rest of the night was peaceful for Battle Group 10. On 25 August, after gathering up enemy equipment on the river plain, Battle Group 10 crossed the bridge over the Cunene river and by 09h00 they were in Xangongo. Their mission would be to hold the town, protect the task force from FAPLA to the north-west while the other battle groups pursued their objectives in the south-east.

Xangongo
Battle Group 20, 30 and 40 crossed the border at Ombalantu into Angola just before midnight on 23 August and headed northwards through dense bush. Battle Group 40 led the way followed by 20 and 30 but was slower moving and the other groups who could not overtake to increase the pace towards the forming point. This was due to the fact the Buffel troop carriers were slower than the Ratels. By 09h15 on 24 August, these battle groups found themselves too far east due to a navigation error and lost time. After correcting their error, the air attack on Xangongo was pushed back by one hour to 12h00. The three battle groups would find their way to their forming-up point west of the town and waited for the air and artillery attack. The air attack on Xangongo began at 11h50 when four Buccaneers from 24 Squadron attacked installations and anti-aircraft sites with AS-30 missiles, one hitting a barracks while the other three failed to hit the targets due to malfunctions. At 11h54, five Canberra bombers (12 Squadron) dropped bombs, followed by dive bombing by three further waves of 8 Mirage F-1AZs (1 Squadron), 6 Mirage F-1CZs (3 Squadron) and 4 Mirage IIICZs (2 Squadron). The last wave of rocketing was carried out by eight Impalas finishing at 12h10. Then followed a twenty-minute artillery barrage of the town's defensive positions by G-2 guns and Valkiri multiple rocket launchers.

Battle Group 40 was tasked with taking the town of Xangongo, its defences and the bridge over the Cunene. The plan was to attack from two places, the north-east with Combat Team 41 and the south-east with Combat Team 42, and this began around 12h50. The teams began to assault the layers o