# Saham

Saham () is a coastal town in the Al Batinah Region, in northeastern Oman. It is located at about  and has a population of 85,010 (2003 census). Saham is a fishing and a farming town between Al Khaboura and Sohar.

Saham Fort & Souq 
The most known landmarks in Saham are the Souq and the Fort which are within each vicinity, the place is historical and for over 100 years it is known as the focal point for all local businesses and the Souq has been rebuilt to modern standards in 2018, the place is always lively and one of the most known events there is Souq Sabe'. Where farm owners bring their livestock for sale on the seventh of the Dhu al-Hijjah, three days before Eid Al Adha, for others to buy their sacrificial lamb for the day.

Regions 
Saham is one of the largest states in AlBatinah in terms of sheer area, and there are many regions with vastly different cultures depending on the environment and the craft of its people.

On the shore fjords of the sea are common in Saham and the areas surrounding them are named Khors, (Khor Al Milh, Khor AlHimam, Khor AlShiyadi). 

Saham mainly splits into two sections, the north and the south, The north has many regions (Majaz, AlHuwail, AlMarfa, AlHadeeb, AlGowaisa, etc). And the south has two main regions, AlDeel and Hafeet.

The region surrounding the Souq was named after it (Hillat AlSouq) marking its importance on the region and the state itself.

Haunted House in Sur AlShiyadi 
A picture of an abandoned house has surfaced the media recently with a caption of (The house that Jinn protect) where some people claim or speculate that the house cannot be bulldozed as all machines just don't work when they go to its vicinity. We all love a good ghost story but in reality, the owner (or the inheritor) of the house is refusing for house to be destroyed, in fact he threatened to sue for over 3 million Omani Rials if they did so. That is pretty much the real story.

See also
 List of cities in Oman

References

 
Populated places in Oman
Al Batinah North Governorate