# Silver (video game)

Silver is an action role-playing video game for Microsoft Windows, Dreamcast and Mac OS X, released in 1999. The game was produced by Infogrames initially for Windows, and later for the Dreamcast. The story focuses around a young warrior called David and his quest to retrieve his wife from the clutches of the villain Silver. On his journey he gains a number of followers and visits many different landscapes. The game sold over 400,000 copies.

Silver features polygonal 3D characters drawn against a pre-rendered 2D background. The character design is inspired by manga/anime culture. The battle system of Silver is notable for being completely real-time, as opposed to many similar light role-playing games, which usually have turn-based combat. The player may choose any character in the adventuring party to control, and the rest of the characters are handled automatically by AI. The story focuses largely on collecting eight magic orbs representing different elements: Fire, Ice, Health, Earth, Acid, Lightning, Time and Light. Each orb is located at an area themed around the orb, and the player may use the collected orbs to cast different kind of spells against enemies.

The game was distributed with PCs sold by Tiny Computers, a computer company based in England and founded in 1990 which went into administration in 2002. Silver was re-released in 2012 on GOG.com and in 2017 on Steam with added support for macOS and Linux.

Plot
Silver takes place in the island region of Jarrah, commonly known as the 'Wheel of Life' for the fact that it is shaped like a wheel. Jarrah is controlled by Silver, an evil sorcerer residing on an island of blood. Fortunately, not all of Jarrah is under his cruel influence. In the faraway Forest of Verdante, David, a young man, peacefully lives together with his wife Jennifer and his grandfather.

The story line begins as Silver decides to take a new bride. He orders his army to bring all women to his island, so he can pick any woman he desires. David's wife Jennifer is kidnapped personally by Silver's son Fuge, who seems to know David's grandfather from the past. Together with his grandfather, David leaves the forest to free his wife, but they come too late. His wife is already on a ship that just left the harbor. They hear rumors about the resistance, a rebel group with the goal to finally set an end to Silver's reign.

After a brief civil encounter with the rebel group in Haven, David and his grandfather journey to the Archives of Gno. On top of the archives lies a giant telescope, able to see where the ship with the captured women is heading. During their exploration they meet Teronus, who gives David a magic ice wand. On their way back, they are confronted again by Fuge, who kills David's grandfather and unveils that he also killed David's father (Fuge mocks David to fight him, but doing so will result in David's death). David kills the demon in the library cellar, freeing the building from the infestation and enabling the telescope.

After his escape, David, now full of pain and anger, finally joins the rebels to fight Silver. They make a coordinated move on Rain, a huge city, only to barely miss the galleon carrying the women. William (who lost his wife Camille at the start of the game) is furious and leaves, while the others meet at the Oracle.

As prophecy foretold, Silver can only be defeated by collecting eight magic spheres, each resembling another region of Jarrah: Fire, Ice, Earth, Lightning, Poison, Regeneration, Time and Light. Together with his new rebel friends, David starts his search for the spheres. Also in knowledge of the prophecy, Silver previously found some of the spheres and sealed them in other castles under his control, but most of them are still lost. Thus, David and his friends have to travel to differently themed locations like a lost underwater station or a castle made from ice. Most of the time, at the end of each path, a giant creature has to be defeated to obtain the respective sphere.

The first orb is given by Othias, a reluctant mage, waiting in Rain. The second is obtained on Winter from a frost giant, in one of the larger Ice caves. Spires houses the healing orb - an underwater city in which Silver's guards are laying in ambush. Ruben's home contains the fourth (lightning), while earth and acid are found in Glass' palace and the Sewers respectively. Glass later reveals a hidden passage on Haven itself to get access to the time orb, while Atro (the outer part of Deadgate) awaits the player with the light orb, after killing the Queen of the Dead.

In David's absence and after obtaining the first five orbs, the rebels are led into a trap by Fuge, who murders most of them. After the group returns to the camp, they find out the rebel leader Duke has been captured in Chains. David makes plans to attack the dungeon Chains from behind, through the barracks. After fighting through most of the labyrinth, the group meets Fuge, who promptly stuns David's companions to force a one on one fight. David finally gets the better of him during one of the hardest fights in the game, and frees Duke.

After confronting Glass, Silver's daughter, whom the rebels had suspected of spying for her father, it comes to light that not only does she secretly resent her father for killing his wife (her mother) as shown in the introductory cutscene of the game, but she even reveals that one of the rebels is a traitor. Glass encourages them to go to Deadgate to find a rebel ghost in limbo, waiting for his retribution. They take a ship from Verdante and manage to find the dead rebel, who tells them it was William - in hopes of getting his wife back from Silver. Glass later teleports David and two companions of his choosing to Metalon, where they have to find Silver's source of power and drain the palace of a major blood source, further weakening the wizard.

It is revealed that Silver plans to seal a pact with the demon of apocalypse, first formed by his murdering of his own wife. By sacrificing every woman capable of child birth, Silver wants to appease the dark god Apocalypse and gain ultimate power. The story reaches its climax in Silver's throne room. William begs Silver to free his wife, but Silver only laughs and kills him. The final fight commences and with the aid of all eight spheres, David and his friends are able to defeat Silver. Nemesis appears and kills Silver in David's stead, seeing as he was too moral and reluctant to do it. 
However, the demon of apocalypse still threatens to end the world, with or without Silver. With the help of Nemesis, David defeats the demon, preventing the demon's apocalypse forever. Silver's fortress Metalon crumbles as the adventurers are making their escape while Glass teleports everyone to safety. David and his wife are reunited and the story ends with a bright future for the world Jarrah.

Aside from this main plot, there are many subplots which evolve around side characters and special locations of Jarrah.

Locations
Verdante is in the top-right corner of Jarrah. It is even more fertile than Haven, but its forests have been burned away or turned into swampland by battles against Silver. David's house, a monastery, and many forests await here. It is home to the Lightning orb.

Haven lies on the center of Jarrah. It is a very fertile island and has a lot of flora and fauna. In its center lie the Oracle's Tower and the Rebel Camp (a player may change the party members here). Later in the game, the Time orb is found in the ancient ruins.

Gno is an island which houses a big library with a large telescope at its top. The Library Of Gno also has caverns underneath it, and, in the beginning of the game, has a lot of trouble with imps and summoned demons.

Rain is the main city of Jarrah and has its name for a good reason: it never stops raining here. The large, dark city hosts several important places like Chains, Silver's dungeon, the pub and the harbor. The fire orb is found in a wizard's tower and the Acid/Poison orb is found in the sewers.

Winter, as the name foretells, is covered in snow and ice and is a key area in the game. It houses two orbs (Ice and Earth) and has caverns underneath, on top of which a big icy castle awaits (the property of Glass, Silver's daughter).

Spires is an underwater cathedral near Rain, which is Atlantis-themed. The enemies in Spires look like amphibians. The Healing Orb can be found here while battling a poison dragon.

Deadgate is the barren realm of the dead. When a person dies, his ghost will be sent to Deadgate until his death is avenged.

Atro is the northern exterior of Deadgate. It is an alien-themed realm where the final orb is found (Light). It is the most minor and unknown location in all of Jarrah.

Metalon is the last island visited in the game, and the location of Silver's palace. As its name suggests, the city that covers the entire island is made completely out of metal, with the exception of the palace. The island