# Baruch Spinoza

Baruch (de) Spinoza (24 November 1632 – 21 February 1677) was a philosopher of Portuguese-Jewish origin, born in Amsterdam, the Dutch Republic,  and mostly known under his Latinized pen name Benedictus de Spinoza. One of the foremost and seminal thinkers of the Enlightenment, modern biblical criticism, and 17th-century Rationalism, including modern conceptions of the self and the universe, he came to be considered "one of the most important philosophers—and certainly the most radical—of the early modern period". Inspired by Stoicism, Jewish Rationalism, Machiavelli, Hobbes, Descartes, and a variety of heterodox Christian thinkers of his day.  His controversial ideas challenged the divine origin of the Hebrew Bible, the nature of God, and the earthly power wielded by religious authorities, Jewish and Christian alike. He was frequently called an "atheist" by contemporaries, although nowhere in his work does Spinoza argue against the existence of God.

Spinoza was raised in the Portuguese-Jewish community of Amsterdam, where his father Michael was a leading figure. His schooling was curtailed, and he joined his father's importing business, following the unexpected death of his older brother. The previously prosperous business was in deep trouble when his father died in 1654. While an active member of the synagogue, Spinoza developed highly controversial ideas regarding the authenticity of the Hebrew Bible, the nature of the Divine, and questioned rabbinic authority, but kept his views to himself until 1655. The break with rabbinic authorities coincided with the collapse of the family business and the loss of his honored position within the synagogue as a financial supporter. When he openly defied rabbinic authorities in 1655-56, they issued a herem () against him, expelling him permanently from the congregation; he was shunned by Jewish society at age 23, including by his own family.  After his expulsion, Spinoza lived an outwardly simple life as an optical lens grinder. But the center of his life was philosophy, and he had a dedicated clandestine circle of supporters, a philosophical sect, who met in person to discuss the writings he shared with them. The secrecy was necessary because his ideas were so explosive, with his 1670 anonymously published Tractatus Theologico-Politicus (TTP) denounced as "A book forged in hell". He died at the age of 44 in 1677 from a lung illness, perhaps tuberculosis, and was buried in a Protestant cemetery in The Hague. His unpublished manuscripts were swiftly removed from his lodgings, to prevent their destruction by authorities; his circle of supporters prepared his works with speed and secrecy for posthumous publication in both their original Latin and Dutch. In June 1678—just over a year after Spinoza's death—the States of Holland, controlled by the Dutch Reformed Church, banned his entire works, since they "contain very many profane, blasphemous and atheistic propositions." The prohibition was sweeping, and included the owning, reading, distribution, copying, and restating of Spinoza's books, and even the reworking of his fundamental ideas. Shortly after (1679/1690) his books were added to the Catholic Church's Index of Forbidden Books.

Spinoza's philosophy encompasses nearly every area of philosophical discourse, including metaphysics, epistemology, political philosophy, ethics, philosophy of mind, and philosophy of science. It earned Spinoza an enduring reputation as one of the most important and original thinkers of the seventeenth century. Spinoza's philosophy is largely contained in two books: the Theologico-Political Treatise, published anonymously in his lifetime in Latin, and the Ethics, published posthumously. He also left behind a number of letters that help to illuminate his ideas and provide some insight into what may have been motivating his views. Although cautious in his lifetime about publication, his death and his stalwart supporters' efforts to publish his work in Latin and in Dutch allowed his ideas to circulate to a wider educated readership, despite authorities' concerted efforts to suppress them. He has been called "the renegade Jew who gave us modernity."

Biography

Family background
Both sides of Spinoza’s family were originally Sephardic Jews from Iberia. His immediate family immigrated to Amsterdam, arriving in the early seventeenth century, where they could practice their religion without persecution by the Portuguese Inquisition. The family in Portugal were New Christian forced converts (conversos) to Christianity. In Portugal in the early sixteenth century, the crown initially looked the other way as outwardly Catholic New Christians practiced Judaism in private. The Portuguese Inquisition was not even established until 1536. As the Inquisition increasingly cracked down, more New Christians continued practicing Judaism in secrecy. A legacy of the era was that many in Spinoza's family had both Christian and Jewish names.  Spinoza’s father Michael, also known by his Christian name Gabriel Álvares d’Espinosa, was a successful merchant in Amsterdam, dealing internationally in various commodities, including dried figs from Morocco and textiles from France. Spinoza’s paternal grandfather, Isaac d’Espinosa (alias Pedro Rodrigues d’Espinosa) (d. 1627) had emigrated from Portugal to Nantes, a major trading hub with a New Christian community practicing Judaism in secret; he died, living as a Jew, in Rotterdam. Spinoza’s great uncle Abraham d’Espinosa (d. 1637) had provided capital for Michael’s business.  Michael married his cousin Raquel d’Espinosa, daughter of his uncle Abraham d’Espinosa, a pattern fairly common in the Jewish merchant community, keeping commercial and religious ties strong.  

When Michael’s wife died in 1627, he married again to Hannah Deborah, and had five children, including Spinoza. Spinoza's maternal grandfather was Henrique Garces, known in the Jewish community as Baruch Senior (d. 1619), for whom Spinoza was named. Baruch Senior’s parents, Francisco Bentalhado and Violante Gomes, were from Porto, the northern port of Portugal. In At some point Spinoza’s maternal grandfather Henrique Garces moved to the trading hub of Antwerp and was one of 75 male heads of household of the “Portuguese nation” (a term with the strong connotation of being Jews).  Spinoza’s grandfather Henrique married a cousin of the Bentalhado family, Maria Nunes, called Miriam, in 1605 in Amsterdam. Miriam’s parents, Duarte Fernandes (Joshua Habilho or Gabilho, 1541-ca. 1623) and his wife Isabel Nunes were Henrique’s uncle and aunt by marriage and moved to Amsterdam. Spinoza’s maternal great grandfather Duarte Fernandez was a wealthy merchant who had fled Portugal, briefly lived in Venice, a center of Sephardic settlement, and then moved to the Netherlands. Spinoza’s maternal grandmother Miriam was born and raised in Lisbon, where she was baptized, then taken as a child to Venice, where the family lived as Jews. Dealing in sugar from Brazil and Baltic grain, Duarte emerged as a major leader of the nascent Jewish community in Amsterdam. Henrique Garces’s marriage into this wealthy branch of the family increased his involvement in the Jewish community in Amsterdam, but regularly took him on business to Antwerp, where he had to be circumspect about his religious practice. Spinoza’s maternal grandfather did not evince as strong a commitment to formal Judaism as his uncle/father-in-law. 

Spinoza’s father Michael married his cousin Raquel d'Espinosa, giving him access to his uncle/father-in-law’s commercial network and capital, but she died without the couple having offspring. Despite Abraham having sons who might have been his commercial heirs, he maintained close relations with Michael, his nephew and son-in-law. After being widowed, Michael then married Hannah Deborah, who brought a dowry to the marriage. This marriage proved fruitful, with five children who survived to adulthood.  The first-born was Miriam, followed by Isaac (1631-49), named after his paternal grandfather, Isaac Senior. Isaac d'Espinosa was expected to take over as head of family and its commercial enterprise. Spinoza was born in 1632 and named as per tradition for his maternal grandfather, Baruch Senior. Spinoza’s younger brother Gabriel (Abraham) was born in 1634, followed by another sister, Rebecca (Ribca).  Spinoza’s sister Miriam married Samuel de Caceres, and the couple had one child, with Miriam dying shortly after giving birth.  Following Jewish tradition, the widower Samuel married his former sister-in-law Rebecca. Spinoza was related in a complicated way with the highly controversial figure in the Amsterdam Jewish community, Uriel da Costa (1585-1640), through his mother’s family in Porto. DaCosta was twice sanctioned by rabbinic authorities, and committed suicide in 1640, more than a decade before Spinoza's birth. He might not have known of the scandalous family connection until he was an adolescent.

Scho