# 2006 in the Philippines

2006 in the Philippines details events of note that happened in the Philippines in the year 2006.

Incumbents

 President: Gloria Macapagal Arroyo (Lakas-CMD)
 Vice President: Noli de Castro (Independent) 
 Senate President:
Franklin Drilon (until July 23)
Manuel Villar (from July 24)
 House Speaker: Jose de Venecia
 Chief Justice:
Artemio Panganiban (until December 7)
Reynato Puno (from December 8)
 Philippine Congress: 13th Congress of the Philippines

Events

January
 January 27 – Marine Captain Nicanor Faeldon, who escaped from the Philippine Army headquarters on December 14, is recaptured by the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP). Faeldon and other junior officers of the AFP launched the Oakwood mutiny on July 27, 2003, where they demanded President Arroyo and then Defense secretary Angelo Reyes to resign.

February

 February 1 – The Revised-Value Added Tax (R-VAT) is implemented, causing a hike in prices of consumer goods.

 February 4 – A stampede occurs during the first anniversary of ABS-CBN's television program Wowowee at the PhilSports Complex, causing the deaths of 74 people and the wounding of about 400 others

 February 17 – After heavy rains in the preceding ten days, a mudslide occurs on the town of Saint Bernard, Southern Leyte, killing 50 people, but with 958 people still missing the death toll is expected to rise dramatically.

 February 24 – President Gloria Macapagal Arroyo on 11:25 am declares a state of emergency via Proclamation No. 1017 after a failed coup attempt and street protests commemorating the 20th anniversary of the People Power Revolution. The protesters converged at the EDSA Shrine led by Vice President Teofisto Guingona were dispersed right after the proclamation. The protesters at EDSA-Santolan led by Prof. Randy David were dispersed violently by the police. Several leftist and rightist leaders were arrested or were under the threat of arrest within the next seven days. The President declared the lifting of the state of emergency via Proclamation No. 1021 on March 3.

April
 April 20 – The Supreme Court declares that a part of Executive Order No. 464 as unconstitutional, thus paving way for the resumption of Congressional inquiries.
 April 25 – The Supreme Court rules that a part of the government policy of Calibrated Pre-Emptive Response as unconstitutional.

May

 May 3 – The Supreme Court rules that the Proclamation No. 1017 was constitutional, although a part of General Order No. 5 as unconstitutional.
 May 11 – Typhoon Caloy (international name: Typhoon Chanchu) landfalls on Samar. On the next day, it landfalls on Mindoro. Caloy caused the deaths of 41 and $1.9 million in damages.
 May 18 – Mountaineer Leo Oracion reaches the summit of Mount Everest via the Nepalese side, becoming the first Filipino to do so, although another mountaineer, Dale Abenojar claims that he reached the summit first via the Tibetan side, on May 15.

June

 June 2 – Four U.S. Marines facing rape charges in the Philippines see their accuser in court for the first time as the formal trial begins in a case that was filed in December, stemming from an incident at a Subic Bay bar. The case has prompted protests and calls for the Visiting Forces Agreement to be amended or scrapped. (Reuters)
 June 3 – The deaths of three Philippines soldiers by the communist New People's Army is confirmed. The ambush by NPA guerrillas took place in Balbalan, Kalinga. The NPA also says two more government soldiers were killed and four were wounded in another attack on an army outpost in Pinukpuk, but the government could not confirm this. (AFP)
 June 8 – U.S. Navy investigators who looked into rape allegations against four marines in the Philippines are barred by the U.S. embassy from testifying in the trial of the four. The plaintiff's attorney characterised the move as a "clear attempt on the part of the US government, to keep us from getting the evidence that we need and from showing the court the truth." (AFP)
 June 13 – A group calling itself Taong Bayan at Kawal, or Masses and Soldiers, claims for an early-morning bomb blast at a police headquarters in Manila, as well as earlier blasts at Manila office building on June 6, an explosion outside the home of an ally of Gloria Macapagal Arroyo last week and two simultaneous bomb blasts in police stations on June 11. The group denies it was behind a bombing in Lipa City that injured nine people on June 11. (AFP)
 June 19 – 900 villagers are evacuated as Mount Bulusan spews ash at Sorsogon. (Manila Standard)
 June 24 – President Arroyo signs the repeal of the death penalty law, as stated in Republic Act No. 9346.
 June 26 – The opposition bloc files impeachment charges against President Arroyo.

July
 July 14 – Mayon Volcano in Albay spews out lava and ash. The Philippine Institute of Volcanology and Seismology raised the alert level from level 1 to level 3, prompting evacuations.
 July 15 – The Professional Regulation Commission admits that there was a leakage of test questions in the June 2006 Nurses Licensure Examination.

 July 24:
 Senator Manuel Villar is elected as the new Senate President, replacing Franklin Drilon at the resumption of the regular session of Congress.
 President Arroyo suspends classes in Metro Manila and other areas due to Typhoon Glenda (international codename: Kaemi).
 On her State of the Nation Address, President Arroyo proposes for the creation of five new super regions, and pushes for constitutional change, among others.

August
 August 7 – Mayon Volcano intensifies its volcanic activity, leading the Philippine Institute of Volcanology and Seismology to raise the alert level from level 3 to level 4, which prompted mandatory evacuation procedures.
 August 11 – An oil spill off the coast of Guimaras occurs, causing widespread environmental damage.
 August 16 – The administration block at the Judicial Committee of the House of Representatives junks the last impeachment case against President Arroyo.
 August 24 – The House of Representatives plenary junked the impeachment case against President Arroyo, voting 173–32.
 August 31 – The petition of Sigaw ng Bayan group for a people's initiative for amendments in the constitution is trashed by the Commission on Elections on the basis that there was no enabling law.

September

 September 28 – Typhoon Milenyo causes widespread damage throughout Luzon, causing at least two deaths, destruction to property, suspension of classes and the Metrorail, closing down of government offices, suspension of trading at the Philippine Stock Exchange, the paralyzation of the South Luzon Expressway, cancellation of flights at Ninoy Aquino International Airport and a Luzon-wide blackout.

October
 October 10 – At least six people are killed in a bombing at Makilala, Cotabato during the town fiesta. Earlier in the day, a blast wounded at least four people at Tacurong City.
 October 17 – Supporters of Mayor Jejomar Binay of Makati barricade themselves at the front of city hall as the Department of the Interior and Local Government hands out their suspension order against the Mayor, Vice Mayor and seven councilors.
 October 25 – The Supreme Court, voting 8–7, junks the petition of the Sigaw ng Bayan (Shout of the People) group for a people's initiative in the constitution.
 October 31 – Voters in Maguindanao's 29 municipalities have approved the creation of a new province to be composed of 10 towns, named Shariff Kabunsuan. It became the Philippines’ 80th province and the sixth in the Autonomous Region in Muslim Mindanao.

November

 November 26 – Miss Earth 2006 beauty pageant is hosted in the Philippines at the National Museum Grounds at Manila. Miss Chile wins the pageant.
 November 29 – The House of Representatives loosens it rules on amending the Constitution.

December 

 December 1 – Albay declares a state of calamity has Typhoon Reming causes 198 deaths and counting. 
 December 3  – President Gloria Macapagal Arroyo declares a "state of national calamity" as 406 perished after Typhoon Reming caused several mudslides around Mayon Volcano. 
 December 4 – U.S. Marine Daniel Smith is found guilty in the Subic rape case; Three other U.S. Marines are acquitted.
 December 7 – The House of Representatives passes a resolution calling for a Constituent Assembly, without a concurrent resolution of the Senate.

 December 8:
 Due to Typhoon Seniang threatens Cebu, the 12th ASEAN Summit is postponed.
 Dinagat Islands becomes the 81st province after the voters approved its secession from Surigao del Norte.
 December 10 – Meycauayan becomes a city in the province of Bulacan through ratification of Republic Act 9356 which was approved last October 2.
 December 12 – The House of Representatives backtracks on its plans for a constituent assembly and instead pushed for a constitutional convention.
 December 13 – The National Disaster Coordinating Council revises the death tolls for Typhoon Reming, with 720 dead, 2,360 injured and 762 missing pe