# Black Sea

The Black Sea is a marginal mediterranean sea lying between Europe and Asia, east of the Balkans, south of the East European Plain, west of the Caucasus, and north of Anatolia. It is bounded by Bulgaria, Georgia, Romania, Russia, Turkey, and Ukraine. The Black Sea is supplied by major rivers, principally the Danube, Dnieper and Don. Consequently, while six countries have a coastline on the sea, its drainage basin includes parts of 24 countries in Europe.

The Black Sea covers  (not including the Sea of Azov), has a maximum depth of , and a volume of . 
Most of its coasts ascend rapidly.
These rises are the Pontic Mountains to the south, bar the southwest-facing peninsulas, the Caucasus Mountains to the east, and the Crimean Mountains to the mid-north.
In the west, the coast is generally small floodplains below foothills such as the Strandzha; Cape Emine, a dwindling of the east end of the Balkan Mountains; and the Dobruja Plateau considerably farther north.
The longest east–west extent is about .
Important cities along the coast include (clockwise from the Bosporus) Burgas, Varna, Constanța, Odesa, Sevastopol, Novorossiysk, Sochi, Batumi, Trabzon and Samsun.

The Black Sea has a positive water balance, with an annual net outflow of  per year through the Bosporus and the Dardanelles into the Aegean Sea. While the net flow of water through the Bosporus and Dardanelles (known collectively as the Turkish Straits) is out of the Black Sea, water generally flows in both directions simultaneously: Denser, more saline water from the Aegean flows into the Black Sea underneath the less dense, fresher water that flows out of the Black Sea. This creates a significant and permanent layer of deep water that does not drain or mix and is therefore anoxic. This anoxic layer is responsible for the preservation of ancient shipwrecks which have been found in the Black Sea.

The Black Sea ultimately drains into the Mediterranean Sea, via the Turkish Straits and the Aegean Sea. The Bosporus strait connects it to the small Sea of Marmara which in turn is connected to the Aegean Sea via the strait of the Dardanelles. To the north, the Black Sea is connected to the Sea of Azov by the Kerch Strait.

The water level has varied significantly over geological time. Due to these variations in the water level in the basin, the surrounding shelf and associated aprons have sometimes been dry land. At certain critical water levels, connections with surrounding water bodies can become established. It is through the most active of these connective routes, the Turkish Straits, that the Black Sea joins the World Ocean. During geological periods when this hydrological link was not present, the Black Sea was an endorheic basin, operating independently of the global ocean system (similar to the Caspian Sea today). Currently, the Black Sea water level is relatively high; thus, water is being exchanged with the Mediterranean. The Black Sea undersea river is a current of particularly saline water flowing through the Bosporus Strait and along the seabed of the Black Sea, the first of its kind discovered. The Black Sea is discussed in amongst others in world issues including trade routes.

Name

Modern names
Current names of the sea are usually equivalents of the English name "Black Sea", including these given in the countries bordering the sea:
 , 
 , 
 , 
 , 
 , 
 , 
 , šavi zɣva, 
 Laz and , , or simply , , "Sea"
 , 
 , 
 , 
 , 

Such names have not yet been shown conclusively to predate the 13th century.

In Greece, the historical name "Euxine Sea", which holds a different literal meaning (see below), is still widely used:
, ; the name , , is used, but is much less common.

Historical names and etymology
The earliest known name of the Black Sea is the Sea of Zalpa, so called by both the Hattians and their conquerors the Hittites. The Hattic city of Zalpa was "situated probably at or near the estuary of the Marrassantiya River, the modern Kızıl Irmak, on the Black Sea coast."

The principal Greek name Póntos Áxeinos is generally accepted to be a rendering of the Iranian word  ("dark colored"). Ancient Greek voyagers adopted the name as , identified with the Greek word  (inhospitable). The name   (Inhospitable Sea), first attested in Pindar (), was considered an ill omen and was euphemized to its opposite,   (Hospitable Sea), also first attested in Pindar. This became the commonly used designation in Greek, although in mythological contexts the "true" name  remained favoured.

Strabo's Geographica (1.2.10) reports that in antiquity, the Black Sea was often simply called "the Sea" ( ). He thought that the sea was called the "Inhospitable Sea   by the inhabitants of the Pontus region of the southern shoreline before Greek colonisation due to its difficult navigation and hostile barbarian natives (7.3.6), and that the name was changed to "hospitable" after the Milesians colonised the region, bringing it into the Greek world.

Popular supposition derives "Black Sea" from the dark color of the water or climatic conditions. Some scholars understand the name to be derived from a system of colour symbolism representing the cardinal directions, with black or dark for north, red for south, white for west, and green or light blue for east. Hence "Black Sea" meant "Northern Sea". According to this scheme, the name could only have originated with a people living between the northern (black) and southern (red) seas: this points to the Achaemenids (550–330  BC).

In the Greater Bundahishn, a Middle Persian Zoroastrian scripture, the Black Sea is called . In the tenth-century Persian geography book , the Black Sea is called Georgian Sea (). The Georgian Chronicles use the name   (Sea of Speri) after the Kartvelian tribe of Speris or Saspers. Other modern names such as  and  (both meaning Black Sea) originated during the 13th century. A 1570 map  from Abraham Ortelius's  labels the sea  (Great Sea), compare Latin .

English writers of the 18th century often used Euxine Sea ( or ). During the Ottoman Empire, it was called either  or , both meaning "Black Sea" in Ottoman Turkish, with the former consisting of Perso-Arabic .

Geography 
The International Hydrographic Organization defines the limits of the Black Sea as follows:

The area surrounding the Black Sea is commonly referred to as the Black Sea Region. Its northern part lies within the Chernozem belt (black soil belt) which goes from eastern Croatia (Slavonia), along the Danube (northern Serbia, northern Bulgaria (Danubian Plain) and southern Romania (Wallachian Plain)) to northeast Ukraine and further across the Central Black Earth Region and southern Russia into Siberia.

The littoral zone of the Black Sea is often referred to as the Pontic littoral or Pontic zone.

The largest bays of the Black Sea are Karkinit Bay in Ukraine; the Gulf of Burgas in Bulgaria; Dnieprovski Bay and Dniestrovski Bay, both in Ukraine; and Sinop Bay and Samsun Bay, both in Turkey.

Coastline and exclusive economic zones

{| class="wikitable sortable" style="text-align:right;"
|+ Coastline length and area of exclusive economic zones
|-
!scope="col"| Country
!scope="col"| Coastline length (km)
!scope="col"| Exclusive economic zones area (km2)
|-
!scope="row"| 
| 1,329
| 172,484
|-
!scope="row"| 
| 2,782
| 132,414
|-
!scope="row"| 
| 800
| 67,351
|-
!scope="row"| 
| 354
| 35,132
|-
!scope="row"| 
| 310
| 22,947
|-
!scope="row"| 
| 225
| 29,756
|- class="sortbottom" style="background:#9acdff;"
!scope="row"| Total
| style="background:#9acdff; font-weight:bold;"| 5,800
| style="background:#9acdff; font-weight:bold;"| 460,084
|}

Drainage basin 

The largest rivers flowing into the Black Sea are:

 Danube
 Dnieper
 Don
 Dniester
 Kızılırmak
 Kuban
 Sakarya
 Southern Bug
 Çoruh/Chorokhi
 Yeşilırmak
 Rioni
 Yeya
 Mius
 Kamchiya
 Enguri
 Kalmius
 Molochna
 Tylihul
 Velykyi Kuialnyk
 Veleka
 Rezovo
 Kodori
 Bzyb/Bzipi
 Supsa
 Mzymta

These rivers and their tributaries comprise a  Black Sea drainage basin that covers wholly or partially 24 countries:

Islands 
Some islands in the Black Sea belong to Bulgaria, Romania, Turkey, and Ukraine:

 St. Thomas Island – Bulgaria
 St. Anastasia Island – Bulgaria
 St. Cyricus Island – Bulgaria
 St. Ivan Island – Bulgaria
 St. Peter Island – Bulgaria
 Sacalinu Mare Island – Romania
 Sacalinu Mic Island – Romania
 Misura / Novaya Zemliya – Romania and Ukraine
 Utrish Island
 Krupinin Island
 Sudiuk Island
 Kefken Island
 Oreke Island
 Giresun Island - Turkey
 Dzharylgach Island – Ukraine
 Zmiinyi (Snake) Island – Ukraine

Climate 

Short-term climatic variation in the Black Sea region is significantly influenced by the operation of the North Atlantic oscillation, the climatic mechanisms resulting from the interaction between the north Atlantic and mid-latitude air masses. While the exact mechanisms causing the North Atlantic Oscillation remain unclear, it is thought the climate conditions established in western Europe mediate the h