# Commandos (Portugal)

The Commandos () are a special forces unit in the Portuguese Army. Presently, their parent unit is the Commando Regiment (Regimento de Comandos). 

Their motto is Audaces Fortuna Juvat (Latin for "Fortune Favors the Bold") and their war cry is Mama Sumae (it can be translated as "here we are, ready for the sacrifice" – taken from a Bantu tribe of southern Angola). 

They were created in Angola during 1962, in the scope of the Portuguese Overseas War, as counter-guerrilla forces, thus responding to the need of the Portuguese Army to have special units specially adapted to the type of war. Initially operating in the Angolan theatre, later units of Commandos also operated in the Portuguese Guinea and Mozambique theatres

The Portuguese Commandos are analogous to the 75th Ranger Regiment of the US Army.

Commando Regiment 
The Portuguese Army Commando troops constitute the Commando Regiment (RCmds), a base unit that reports to the Headquarters of the Portuguese Rapid Reaction Brigade. Until July 2015, this unit was designated "Commando Troops Center".

The operational component of the Commando Regiment is the Commando Battalion (BCmds), which by itself includes three maneuver companies and a headquarters and support company. Together with Paratrooper and Special Operations units, the Commando Battalion is one of the operational units of the Rapid Reaction Brigade.

Besides its operational battalion, the Commando Regiment also includes a regimental headquarters and staff, a headquarters and services support company and a training company.

History

Origin 

When the Overseas War started in 1961 in Angola, the Portuguese Army employed its units of Special Caçadores. These were special light infantry units organized and trained by the Special Operations Training Centre to conduct counter-insurgency operations. In 1962, however a decision was taken by the Army to enlarge the organization and training of the Special Caçadores to all the infantry units engaged in the war, at the same time disbanding those special units. This however proved to be unfeasible and the Army founded itself without units able to conduct special operations in the scope of guerrilla warfare.

So, in 1962, the Portuguese Army needed units with the ability to:
 conduct special actions in the Portuguese territory or abroad
 fight as assault infantry / shock troops
 provide the high political and military commands with a force able to conduct irregular operations

The first objective that the army set out to achieve was that of building a force specially prepared for counter-guerrilla operations, but the Portuguese commandos also participated in irregular operations, with units specially organised for each operation, and in assault operations, with conventional warfare characteristics, especially in the last years of the war, when they operated in battalion strength, backed up by artillery and the Air Force.

The history of the Portuguese commandos began on 25 June, 1962, when, in Zemba (Northern Angola), the first six groups of those that would be the predecessors of the commandos, were formed. For the preparation of these groups, the CI 21 – Centro de Instrução de Contraguerrilha (Counter-Guerrilla Instruction Centre) was created, commanded by Lieutenant-Colonel Nave, and had as instructor, the photographer and former French Foreign Legion Sergeant, the Italian Dante Vachi, with experience in the Indochina and Algerian wars.

The six groups prepared in this center achieved excellent operational results. Nonetheless, the military command in Angola decided to re-evaluate the instruction and integration of these units into the army and, in 1963 and 64, the 16 and 25 Instruction Centres (CI 16 and CI 25) were created, in Quibala, Angola. For the first time, the term "Comandos" (Commandos) was applied to the troops instructed there.

On 13 February, 1964, the first Mozambique Commandos Course was initiated in Namaacha (Lourenço Marques, now Maputo) and on 23 July of the same year, in Bra (Portuguese Guinea), the first Guinea Commandos Course.

Casualties 
Portuguese commando soldiers that participated in active operations: more than 9000 men (510 officers, 1587 NCOs and 6977 soldiers) served in 67 commando companies.

Combat casualties:
 357 KIAs (killed in action)
 28 MIAs (Missing In Action)
 771 wounded

The commandos constituted about 1% of all the forces present in the Colonial War, but the number of their deaths is about 10% of the total of the casualties; a percentage ten times more than that of regular forces, which happens because they were the most employed troops. It's also generally known that the commandos eliminated more guerrilla fighters and captured more weaponry than the other forces. These characteristics made them the only ones to get a mystical aura that remained after the war.

Postwar 
After the war, the commandos continued to develop their skills until 1993 when they were disbanded. This decision was influenced by a number of deaths during instruction. The commando soldiers were merged with the Paratroopers and these were transferred from the Air Force to the Army. But in 2002, the commandos were reactivated as an independent unit and the Batalhão de Comandos (Commando Battalion) was created, with two Operational Companies and an Instruction Company. They are now based in the Centro de Tropas Comandos (Commando Troops Centre) in Mafra. They were deployed to Afghanistan in 2005, where a sergeant was killed by a roadside bomb; the first commando KIA since the end of the Portuguese Colonial War. In 2006, Army Chief of Staff General "Comando" Pinto Ramalho informed that the Army was developing studies in order to raise a third Operational Company, with a size force increase; the Centro de Tropas Comando are actually a garrison in Carregueira.

In 2015 the historical title of Commando Regiment was restored.

Selection and Training 
Training to become a Commando takes 34 weeks. Success candidates are expected to service a minimum of 2 years.

This is broken down in the following stages:-

Basic training; This 5 week basic training aims to provide the candidate with basic military training, with an introduction to military culture at this stage.

Additional training (stage 1); This 7 week stage aims to provide  advanced military training, and combat technique is given at this stage.

Additional training (stage 2);  This 5 week stage aims to provide the military with military leadership training, at this stage command and leadership modules are taught. This training is only for Officer, and Non-commissioned Officers.

Commando course; This 17 week course is broken down to two stages, a 3 week preparation stage followed by a 14 week commando course.

Organisation and evolution 

In its first phase, the commandos organised into independent groups composed of volunteers from infantry battalions, forming their intervention units. The success of these groups meant that they rapidly started to be used under the commander-in-chief's and military commanders' orders, to conduct special operations.
The groups' organisation (example):
 one command team (one officer, one signaller, one NCO, one medic, one sharpshooter 12,7mm command team)
 three manoeuvre teams (one NCO, one sharpshooter 7,62mm, one 7,62mm machine gun and two riflemen)
depending on the mission will have two of the following teams:
 two mortar teams NCO, one sharpshooter 5,62mm, one 60mm command mortar, one ammunition soldier and one soldiers)
 two antitank team (one NCO, one antitank weapon Carl Gustav, one sharpshooter 5,62mm, one ammunition soldier, one soldiers)

This organisation of a group with six teams and each team with five men suffered adaptations, but the base-cell, the five-men team, remained throughout the war.

The war's evolution revealed the necessity of more commando soldiers and independent units, capable of operating during longer periods and being self-sustained: reasons that led to the creation of commando companies. The first company was formed in Portuguese Angola and its instruction started in September 1964. Its commander, Captain Albuquerque Gonçalves, received the unit's banner on February 5, 1965. The second company had as its destination Mozambique, commanded by Captain Jaime Neves.

The organisation and organisational principles of the Portuguese commandos, are established in great mobility and creativity and in counter-guerrilla combat techniques, very well defined and able to support permanent innovation.

The composition and organisation of the commando companies were always adapted to the circumstances and situations, although throughout the war it was possible to verify two main models, that originated what we can call light companies and heavy companies.
The former were composed of four commando groups, each one with four sub-groups, constituting 80 men and with few back-up components. These companies had little capability to maintain themselves, independently, dur