# Atomic theory

Atomic theory is the scientific theory that matter is composed of particles called atoms. The concept that matter is composed of discrete particles is an ancient idea, but gained scientific credence in the 18th and 19th centuries when scientists found it could explain the behaviors of gases and how chemical elements reacted with each other. By the end of the 19th century, atomic theory had gained widespread acceptance in the scientific community.

The term "atom" comes from the Greek word atomos, which means "uncuttable". John Dalton applied the term to the basic units of mass of the chemical elements under the mistaken belief that chemical atoms are the fundamental particles in nature; it was another century before scientists realized that Dalton's so-called atoms have an underlying structure of their own. Particles which are truly indivisible are now referred to as "elementary particles".

History

Philosophical atomism

The idea that matter is made up of discrete units is a very old idea, appearing in many ancient cultures, including Greece and India. The word "atom" (; ), meaning "uncuttable", was coined by the Pre-Socratic Greek philosophers Leucippus and his pupil Democritus (460–370 BC). Democritus taught that atoms were infinite in number, uncreated, and eternal, and that the qualities of an object result from the kind of atoms that compose it. Democritus's atomism was refined and elaborated by the later Greek philosopher Epicurus (341–270 BC), and by the Roman Epicurean poet Lucretius (99–55 BC). During the Early Middle Ages, atomism was mostly forgotten in western Europe. During the 12th century, it became known again in western Europe through references to it in the newly-rediscovered writings of Aristotle. The opposing view of matter upheld by Aristotle was that matter was continuous and infinite and could be subdivided without limit.

In the 14th century, the rediscovery of major ancient works describing atomist teachings, including Lucretius's De rerum natura and Diogenes Laërtius's Lives and Opinions of Eminent Philosophers, led to increased scholarly attention on the subject. Nonetheless, because atomism was associated with the philosophy of Epicureanism, which contradicted orthodox Christian teachings, belief in atoms was not considered acceptable by most European philosophers. The French Catholic priest Pierre Gassendi (1592–1655) revived Epicurean atomism with modifications, arguing that atoms were created by God and, though extremely numerous, are not infinite in number. He was the first person who used the term "molecule" to describe aggregation of atoms. Gassendi's modified theory of atoms was popularized in France by the physician François Bernier (1620–1688) and in England by the natural philosopher Walter Charleton (1619–1707). The chemist Robert Boyle (1627–1691) and the physicist Isaac Newton (1642–1727) both defended atomism and, by the end of the 17th century, the idea of an atomistic foundation of nature had become accepted by portions of the scientific community.

Dalton's law of multiple proportions

Near the end of the 18th century, two laws about chemical reactions emerged without referring to the notion of an atomic theory. The first was the law of conservation of mass, closely associated with the work of Antoine Lavoisier, which states that the total mass in a chemical reaction remains constant (that is, the reactants have the same mass as the products). The second was the law of definite proportions. First established by the French chemist Joseph Proust in 1797 this law states that if a compound is broken down into its constituent chemical elements, then the masses of the constituents will always have the same proportions by weight, regardless of the quantity or source of the original substance.

John Dalton studied data gathered by himself and other scientists and noticed a pattern that later came to be known as the law of multiple proportions. In compounds which all contain a particular element, the content of that element will differ across these compounds by ratios of small whole numbers. Dalton concluded from all this that elements react with each other in discrete and consistent units of weight. Borrowing the word from the philosophical tradition, Dalton called these units atoms.

Example 1 — tin oxides: Dalton identified two oxides of tin. One is a grey powder (which Dalton referred to as the "protoxide") in which for every 100 parts of tin there is 13.5 parts of oxygen. The other oxide is a white powder (which Dalton referred to as the "deutoxide") in which for every 100 parts of tin there are 27 parts of oxygen. 13.5 and 27 form a ratio of 1:2. Dalton concluded that in the grey oxide, there is one oxygen atom for every tin atom, and in the white oxide there are two oxygen atoms for every tin atom. These oxides are today known as tin(II) oxide (SnO) and tin(IV) oxide (SnO2) respectively.

Example 2 — iron oxides: Dalton identified two oxides of iron. One is a black powder in which for every 100 parts of iron there are about 28 parts of oxygen. The other is a red powder in which for every 100 parts of iron there are 42 parts of oxygen. 28 and 42 form a ratio of 2:3. These oxides are today known as iron(II) oxide (better known as wüstite) and iron(III) oxide (the major constituent of rust).  Their modern formulas are Fe2O2 and Fe2O3 respectively.

Example 3 — nitrogen oxides: Dalton was aware of three oxides of nitrogen: "nitrous oxide", "nitrous gas", and "nitric acid" (these compounds are known today as nitrous oxide, nitric oxide, and nitrogen dioxide respectively).  Dalton understood that "Nitrous oxide" is 63.3% nitrogen and 36.7% oxygen, which means it has 80 g of oxygen for every 140 g of nitrogen. "Nitrous gas" is 44.05% nitrogen and 55.95% oxygen, which means there are 160 g of oxygen for every 140 g of nitrogen. "Nitric acid" is 29.5% nitrogen and 70.5% oxygen, which means it has 320 g of oxygen for every 140 g of nitrogen. 80 g, 160 g, and 320 g form a ratio of 1:2:4. Dalton's formulas for these compounds were N2O, NO, and NO2, essentially the same as today's.

Dalton's atomic theory
From the evidence provided by the law of multiple proportions Dalton developed his atomic theory. A central problem for the theory was to determine the relative weights of the atoms of various elements. The atomic weight of an element is the weight an atom of that element is compared to the weights of atoms of the other elements. Dalton and his contemporaries could not measure the absolute weight of atoms—i.e. their weight in grams—because atoms were far too small to be directly measured with the technologies that existed in the 19th century. Instead, they measured how heavy atoms of various elements were relative to atoms of hydrogen, which chemists of Dalton's day knew was the lightest element in nature.

Dalton estimated the atomic weights according to the mass ratios in which they combined, with the weight of the hydrogen atom taken conventionally as unity. However, Dalton did not realize that some elements exist as molecules in their natural pure form—-e.g. pure oxygen exists as O2. He also mistakenly believed that the simplest compound between any two elements is always one atom of each (so he thought water was HO, not H2O). This, in addition to the limitations of his apparatus, flawed his results. For instance, in 1803 he believed that oxygen atoms were 5.5 times heavier than hydrogen atoms, because in water he measured 5.5 grams of oxygen for every 1 gram of hydrogen and believed the formula for water was HO.  Adopting better data, in 1806 he concluded that the atomic weight of oxygen must actually be 7 rather than 5.5, and he retained this weight for the rest of his life.  Others at this time had already concluded from more precise measurements that the oxygen atom must weigh 8 relative to hydrogen equals 1, if one assumes Dalton's formula for the water molecule (HO), or 16 if one assumes the modern water formula (H2O).

The flaw in Dalton's theory was corrected in principle in 1811 by Amedeo Avogadro. Avogadro had proposed that equal volumes of any two gases, at equal temperature and pressure, contain equal numbers of molecules (in other words, the mass of a gas's particles does not affect the volume that it occupies). Avogadro's hypothesis, now usually called Avogadro's law, provided a method for deducing the relative weights of the molecules of gaseous elements, for if the hypothesis is correct relative gas densities directly indicate the relative weights of the particles that compose the gases. This way of thinking led directly to a second hypothesis: the particles of certain elemental gases were not atoms, but molecules consisting of two atoms each; and when combining chemically these molecules often split in two. For instance, the fact that two liters of hydrogen will react with just one liter of oxygen to produce two liters of water vapor (at constant pressure and temperature) sug