# Francis Lewis High School

Francis Lewis High School (FLHS) is a selective public high school located in Fresh Meadows, in the New York City borough of Queens. It is one of the most-applied-to public high schools in New York City with 9,468 applicants in 2016. Operated by the New York City Department of Education, the school serves students of grades 912. The school is named after Francis Lewis, who signed the United States Declaration of Independence as a representative of New York.

The school has several competitive and high-performing academic programs. Students are admitted to the school, either as zoned applicants from the surrounding area, or through these programs, whose acceptance rate are below 3% in the 2019 admissions statistics, some being as low as 1%.

The school has a 93% attendance rate, compared to 89% citywide. The school's graduation rate is 88% in four years, compared to 76% citywide. Of the graduating class, 82% of graduates enrolled in college or other post-secondary program within six months of graduation, compared to 59% citywide.

Student body 
Francis Lewis is one of the most selective and applied to public high schools in New York City. In March 2016, Francis Lewis had 9,468 applicants applying for a seat in the school. During the 2019–2020 school year, Francis Lewis had 4,418 students enrolled. For the 2019–2020 academic year, the student body was 56% Asian, 22% Hispanic, 16% Caucasian, and 6% African American. Ten percent of the students were learning English as a second language. Fourteen percent of the students had special needs.

Francis Lewis is also one of the most overcrowded; it has a capacity of 2,300, and the 2019–2020 enrollment figures exceeded that capacity by 176 percent. In 2019, the New York City School Construction Authority started constructing an annex with 500 seats and amenities such as a culinary arts room, a science lab, and a greenhouse. The annex is scheduled to be completed by September 2022.

The school has an alumni association for graduates.

Special programs and enrollment
Eighth and ninth graders applying to Francis Lewis can be admitted through its specialized academic programs which include the following.
 The Jacob K. Javits Law Institute for law studies. Students take semesters studying American law, analyzing the court system, and participating in mock trials and moot court. The program is a three-year program. The school's team won the New York City Moot Court Championships in December 1997. 
 The University Scholars Program, a program which gives its students an accelerated humanities program including Mythology for freshman year and Philosophy for sophomore year. Students are required to take AP English Language and Composition during junior year, and they have the choice of taking either Ancient Greek or AP English Literature and Composition during senior year. Students are required to take two foreign languages as well. The program is a four-year program.
 The Math and Science Research Program offers advanced studies of math, science and statistics. Students analyze scientific articles, write scientific papers, design and conduct experiments, and participate in science fairs. The program is a four-year program. The program has garnered various Siemens Competition and Intel Science Talent Search finalists and winners. For example, Francis Lewis had three semifinalists in 2010, more than any other high school in New York City.
 Math Team is a program that allows students to participate in citywide math competitions in addition to required math courses. In April 1999, the senior math team came in first place in the New York State Interscholastic Math Competition. In 2016, the program's math magazine received a gold medal from Columbia Scholastic Press Association, a Columbia University group.
 The Robotics and Engineering Program offers students education in engineering. Students learn how to construct and program their own robots and compete in citywide competitions. 
 The International Relations Program allows students to take an accelerated class in international relations including conflicts and trade. Students take field trips to the United Nations building to analyze relations between different country leaders.
 The Computer Science Program allows students to learn how to code on a computer and improve their programming skills.

In May 1995, the debate team won the New York City Championship in the annual Lincoln-Douglas debates for the first time in school history.

Before students enter sophomore year, Francis Lewis High School offers students the chance to switch into different programs. Several three-year programs become available, including the following:
The Dance Academy allows students to take a dance class in addition to the physical education class. Students learn how to do classical dances and modern dances. As of the 2018–2019 school year, students are able to audition to join the academy in their freshman year through orientation in June.
School of Design allows students classes to further their art skills.
The Graphic Design Academy allows students to pursue interests in graphic design.
The Journalism Academy offers students a classes to better understand news writing, reporting, and production. Students learn to produce a news story, learn to photojournalism skills, and broadcast and report through multimedia. The program has garnered multiple awards from the Newsies! Awards, run by Baruch College.
 The Sports and Medicine Academy teaches students necessary skills for working in the medical field. Students study human anatomy, medicines, and medical conditions.
The Music Program allows students to further their music skills with different types of instruments and through voice, taking any of the music electives for most of their high school tenure.
 The Virtual Enterprise International Academy allows students to learn the basis of designing and selling a product. Student learn marketing techniques, and they use these skills to try to sell a product to real investors. The program has garnered honors with top ranking companies in citywide competitions making nationals.

Academics
In order to give students high school credit and Regents credit, Francis Lewis offers numerous classes such as integrated algebra, geometry, trigonometry/algebra II, pre-trigonometry, English, living environment/biology, chemistry, physics, earth science, global history and geography, U.S. History and geography, U.S. government and economics, health, forensic science, sports medicine, literature, music appreciation, art, and graphic design.

As physical education classes, Francis Lewis High School offers frisbee, racket sports, soccer, basketball, yoga and dance, walking, weight training and conditioning, and volleyball.

The school offers music electives including chorus, concert choir, honors concert band, jazz ensemble, guitar, keyboard, marching band, and string orchestra. Students may take music electives for as long as their high school tenure. Music appreciation is offered as a one-year class for art/music credit.

Language studies 
In keeping with the school's diversity, Francis Lewis High School teaches several foreign languages, including Chinese (Mandarin), French, Greek (for the fourth year of the University Scholars program), Italian, Japanese, Korean, Latin, and Spanish. Classes for native speakers in Chinese, Korean, and Spanish are also available for students satisfying the NYCDOE's foreign language requirement. The school previously taught Arabic and Hebrew, but those classes ended due to declining interest.

English as New Language (ENL) is also available for English learners.

Advanced Placement courses 
In 1978, Francis Lewis High School was the first public high school to achieve certification to the International Baccalaureate, but stopped offering it in the 1990s. Advanced Placement (AP) courses are also available, offering college credit for work done during high school (based on the final test score).  Students may choose the full program to get a full years' college credit, or simply courses of interest (for credit towards single college courses such as math or humanities). Sixty-six percent of twelfth graders take at least one Advanced Placement exam at any time during high school; of these, 50% earned at least a 3 on at least one Advanced Placement exam.

Students may choose from 20 AP courses offered at Francis Lewis, including Biology, Calculus AB, Calculus BC, Capstone, Chemistry, Chinese Language and Culture, Computer Science A, English Language and Composition, English Literature and Composition, Environmental Science, Japanese Language and Culture, Latin, Macroeconomics, Microeconomics, Physics 1, Physics 2, AP Physics C: Mechanics, Psychology, Spanish, Statistics, United States Government and Politics, United States History, and World History.

Francis Lewis High School was ranked 29th out of the 520 public high schools in New York City, according to U.S. News