# Summer in the City (song)

"Summer in the City" is a song by the American folk rock band the Lovin' Spoonful. Written by John Sebastian, Mark Sebastian and Steve Boone, the song was released as a non-album single in July 1966 and was included on the album Hums of the Lovin' Spoonful later that year. The single was the Lovin' Spoonful's fifth to break the top ten in the United States and their only to reach . A departure from the band's lighter sound, the recording features a harder rock style. The lyrics differ from most songs about the summer by lamenting the heat, contrasting the unpleasant warmth and noise of the daytime with the relief offered by the cool night, which allows for the nightlife to begin.

John Sebastian reworked the lyrics and melody of "Summer in the City" from a song written by his teenage brother Mark. Boone contributed the song's bridge while in the studio. The Lovin' Spoonful recorded "Summer in the City" in two sessions at Columbia Records' 7th Avenue Studio in New York in March 1966. Erik Jacobsen produced the sessions with assistance from engineer Roy Halee, while Artie Schroeck performed as a session musician on a Wurlitzer electric piano. The recording is an early instance in pop music of added sound effects, made up of car horns and a pneumatic drill to mimic city noises.

"Summer in the City" has since received praise from several music critics and musicologists for its changing major-minor keys and its inventive use of sound effects. The song has been covered by several artists, including Quincy Jones, whose 1973 version won the Grammy Award for Best Instrumental Arrangement and has since been sampled by numerous hip hop artists.

Background and composition 

The Lovin' Spoonful completed their first two albums, Do You Believe in Magic and Daydream, over a period of six months. In need of new material for their next LP, John Sebastian, the band's principal songwriter, recalled a song composed and informally taped by his teenage brother, Mark, titled "It's a Different World". Written when Mark was 14, it featured a bossa nova-like sound and rudimentary lyrics, written in the style of soul singer Sam Cooke.

John expanded on Mark's original composition, reworking the melody and "[replacing] Mark's laconic verses with more vital, upbeat ones." John was pleased with Mark's original line, "But at night it's a different world", determining that the verse before that point needed to build up tension toward an eventual release: "I was going for the scary, minor chord, hit-the-road-Jack chord sequence that doesn't warn you of what's coming in the chorus." He later compared his resulting first verse to the tension established in Modest Mussorgsky's Night on Bald Mountain, which he knew from the 1940 film Fantasia. He incorporated into the verse a riff session player Artie Schroeck had played between takes during their sessions for the What's Up, Tiger Lily? soundtrack. While recording the song, the band determined that a bridge or middle eight was needed to complement John's "tense" and "free-swinging" parts, prompting bassist Steve Boone to suggest a "jazzy figure", a "piano interlude" which he later said "sounded a little bit like [American pianist] George Gershwin".

Lyrics and music 

While most songs about summer romanticize warm weather, the lyrics of "Summer in the City" lament the heat of the daytime. The combined unpleasantness of the daytime heat and noise are directly contrasted with the relief offered by nighttime, whose cooler temperatures allow for city nightlife to begin, consisting in dancing and finding dates. Sadness returns again when the singer complains that the days in the city cannot be like the nights.

The song opens with two descending notes (a flattened or minor sixth followed by a perfect fifth degree of a minor scale) played three times. This intro is played in octaves by the lead guitar, bass and electric piano. On the fourth beat of each bar, a snare and bass drum smash. While the two note descent establishes the song in a minor mode, the verse suggests a Dorian mode. The vocal of the verse is entirely minor-pentatonic. John's arpeggiation on the major V (heard at "[5] all around, [7] people lookin' [2] half dead", as noted by Everett) confirms the mode is minor before immediately shifting back to major when his voice is joined in harmony (heard at "hotter than a matchhead").

In contrast to the verse, the next section, which Everett writes "ought to be called the bridge", is a major mode, suggestive of the "different world" of the night described in the lyrics. It repeats IV–VII four times before breaking with the ii–V–ii–V chord progression suggested by Boone. The bridge further functions to emphasize the dorian quality of the next verse. The song alternates between verse and bridge again before a second break transitions to an instrumental coda, finishing the song on the major mode.

Recording 

The Lovin' Spoonful recorded "Summer in the City" in March 1966 at Columbia Records' 7th Avenue Studio in New York City. Erik Jacobsen produced the song with assistance from engineer Roy Halee. The band completed the song across two sessions; during the first, they recorded the instrumental track in four steps, beginning with drums, an organ, electric piano and rhythm guitar. John struggled to play the Wurlitzer electric piano part, leading arranger Artie Schroeck to step in as a session musician. Boone overdubbed his bass while John played autoharp, with a guitar added on another layer. The last instrumental overdub included added extra percussion; Halee placed a microphone inside a garbage can, which Yanovsky then struck the side of with a drumstick. Halee described the resultant sound as "a gigantic explosion".

Too tired to continue recording during the initial session, John instead sang his lead vocal the next night. Yanovsky and Joe Butler contributed backing vocals. After hearing the initial playback, Yanovsky complained that the song's percussion was not loud enough, expressing to Halee: "I want the drums to sound like garbage cans being thrown down a steel staircase." To increase the amount of reverb on the track, Halee placed a microphone on the eighth floor of a metal staircase and a large speaker on the ground floor. Halee later duplicated the effect with the same staircase when recording Simon & Garfunkel's 1969 single "The Boxer". The song originally closed with a loud crash caused by a kicked Fender Reverb. Displeased with this ending, Jacobsen removed it and instead inserted a copy of the last verse and chorus for an instrumental fade out.

During the sessions, the band suggested to Jacobsen that they add "city" noises to the track, such as the sound of traffic or a construction crew. During a separate session, a radio soundman brought in an assembly of taped sound effects. The group listened to the effects on a portable reel-to-reel recorder before deciding on the sound of car horns and a pneumatic drill. The effects were among the first on a pop song to employ an overlapping crossfade, an effect that had typically only been used on comedy albums. Mixing for "Summer in the City" concluded after the Lovin' Spoonful returned from Europe in May 1966.

Release and commercial performance 

Kama Sutra Records released "Summer in the City" as a single on July 4, 1966. In the U.S. and several other countries, Boone's country song "Butchie's Tune" was used as the B-side, while in other countries, "Fishin' Blues" was used. The single's release corresponded with a record heat wave in New York City – peaking in June and July at  and  in August – and came shortly after a similar heat wave experienced by Britain in the end of June. An advertisement promoting the single was published in the July 2 issue of Billboard magazine, promising it would "capture the feel... of Summer in the City". Author Jon Savage compares the ad's imagery, which depicts three silhouetted black boys playing with a fire hydrant, to that of a riot in Chicago's West Side which began on July 12 after police stopped young blacks from using a fire hydrant to cool off.

"Summer in the City" was the Lovin' Spoonful's fifth single, and one of six released between December 1965 and December 1966 that reached the top ten in the US. The release rose quickly; Billboard classified it as a breakout single across the U.S. on July 16, and it jumped from  to  on the Billboard Hot 100 on July 30. On August 13, it overtook the Troggs' "Wild Thing" to become the Lovin' Spoonful's only . It held the position for three weeks, becoming what author Jon Savage terms the "American song of the summer", before losing the  spot to Donovan's "Sunshine Superman". In addition to reaching  on Cash Box and Record World Top 100 charts, it was  in Canada and  on the U.K.'s Record Retailer Chart. "Summer in the City" was later sequenced as the closing track on the album Hums of the Lovin' Spoonful, released in November 1966.

"Summer in the City" has a harder sound tha