# MLS Cup 1997

MLS Cup 1997 was the second edition of the MLS Cup, the post-season championship match of Major League Soccer (MLS) in the United States. It was played on October 26, 1997, between D.C. United and the Colorado Rapids to determine the champion of the 1997 season. The soccer match was played in front of 57,431 spectators at RFK Memorial Stadium in Washington, D.C.

D.C. United were defending champions and finished atop the Eastern Conference and the overall league standings despite being strained by runs in multiple competitions. Colorado had overhauled their roster after finishing last overall in the 1996 season and qualified for the playoffs with a losing record, finishing fourth in the Western Conference, but earned two upset victories in the playoffs. As finalists, D.C. United and the Colorado Rapids both earned berths to play in the 1998 CONCACAF Champions' Cup.

During a rainstorm that mirrored the previous final, D.C. repeated as MLS Cup champions by winning 2–1. The hosts took a lead through Jaime Moreno in the 37th minute and extended it with a header by Tony Sanneh in the 68th minute. Substitute Adrián Paz scored a consolation goal for Colorado in the 75th minute, but the team were unable to draw level despite several chances. The announced crowd of 57,431 was the second-largest attendance for a sporting event at RFK Memorial Stadium.

Venue

RFK Memorial Stadium in Washington, D.C., the home of defending champions D.C. United, was selected as the host of the second MLS Cup on December 17, 1996. The stadium was opened in 1961 and was primarily used for American football and baseball, but previously hosted the 1980 Soccer Bowl and the 1996 U.S. Open Cup Final. It also hosted several matches during the 1994 FIFA World Cup and 1996 Olympics men's soccer tournament.

The league sold 32,000 tickets for the final in mid-October after D.C. United advanced to the conference finals. After the team clinched an appearance in the final, the remainder of the stadium's 56,000 seats were sold out and 1,000 bleacher seats were added.

Road to the final

The MLS Cup is the post-season championship of Major League Soccer (MLS), a professional club soccer league based in the United States that began play in 1996. The league's second season was contested by ten teams organized into two conferences, each playing 32 matches during the regular season from April to September. Teams faced opponents from the same conference four times during the regular season and from outside their conference three or four times. MLS continued to use the modified version of the sport's rules that it adopted for the 1996 season, including a penalty shootout from  to decide tied matches (for which the winners earned one point) and a countdown clock that stopped during dead plays.

The top four teams from each conference qualified for the playoffs, which were organized into three rounds and played in October. The first two rounds, named the conference semifinals and conference finals, were home-and-away series organized into a best-of-three format with a hosting advantage for the higher seed. The winners of the conference finals advanced to the single-match MLS Cup final, which would be held at a predetermined neutral venue.

MLS Cup 1997 was contested by defending champions and hosts D.C. United, who finished first in the regular season standings, and the Colorado Rapids, who finished fourth in the Western Conference. The two finalists swept through the playoffs by winning the conference semifinals and conference finals in two legs. During three regular season meetings between the two teams, D.C. won 5–2 in April and 5–0 in June, while Colorado won in a shootout following a 2–2 draw in August. The Rapids reached the final through a "Cinderella run" in the playoffs and were considered underdogs to defending champions D.C. United.

D.C. United

Inaugural season champions D.C. United retained most of their players and made few changes during the offseason, trading midfielder Shawn Medved to the San Jose Clash and acquiring defender Carlos Llamosa in the supplemental draft. Nine of their starting players were called up at various times to their national teams for World Cup qualifying, giving reserve players an opportunity to earn a starting spot. D.C. went on a preseason tour that included matches in Japan and Hong Kong, earning a 6–2 win–loss record, and returned to open the season against MLS Cup opponents Los Angeles Galaxy with a shootout win.

D.C. earned one shootout win and three wins in regulation time to put them atop the Eastern Conference standings early in the season, highlighted by the performance of rookie goalkeeper Scott Garlick, who replaced starter Mark Simpson during his stint with an indoor team. The team then drew four times and lost three of the shootouts, briefly losing first place in the East in May before retaking it by the end of the month. Despite losing Bolivian players Marco Etcheverry and Jaime Moreno to the national team for six weeks, D.C. won their next five matches but lost 6–1 to the Kansas City Wizards on June 21, ending a 22-match unbeaten streak in regulation time. D.C. United also had six players in the starting lineup for the All-Star Game, which was won 5–4 by the East.

After the All-Star Game in early July, D.C. United went through a series of underwhelming performances, including three regulation losses and one shootout loss in six matches, blamed in part on injuries to Etcheverry and captain John Harkes. The team then entered a stretch of 13 matches in 36 days, forced by their participation in the CONCACAF Champions' Cup (finishing third) and U.S. Open Cup (advancing to the semifinals). D.C. United went 8–4–1 in all competitions through the end of August, including three wins out of four matches in regular season play during a stretch of five matches in twelve days. The team made further changes to their goalkeepers, as Simpson had undergone two knee surgeries and backup Jeff Causey was signed by the New England Revolution; in their place, Scott Garlick and rookie Tom Presthus were rotated between matches as starters. On August 17, Mario Gori and Raúl Díaz Arce were arrested for an alleged rape at a Columbus hotel, but released the following day on bail and allowed to continue playing for the team; the case was later dropped without charges in January 1998 after the alleged victim declined to continue.

D.C. earned their playoff berth with their first win against the Kansas City Wizards in franchise history after five earlier losses, and subsequently clinched first place in the Eastern Conference with a 3–2 shootout win against New England. The team continued to heavily rotate lineups and rested eight starting players in the second of a home-and-away series against the Tampa Bay Mutiny, winning 5–1 despite losing the first match with most of their regular starters. D.C. finished the regular season atop the league-wide standings with 55 points and a 21–11 record, but fell short of matching the Mutiny's record 58 points from the 1996 season after losing to the MetroStars in their last match. The team showed its roster depth by using a different lineup for all 39 league and cup matches, including 24 different starting players. Bruce Arena was named MLS Coach of the Year, Eddie Pope was named Defender of the Year, and four United players were included in the MLS Best XI.

D.C. faced New England in the conference semifinals and earned a 4–1 victory in the first leg of the series at home. Roy Wegerle, a midseason signing from Colorado, scored to give United a half-time lead and added a second before Jaime Moreno scored two more; New England defender Mike Burns scored a consolation goal with a minute left in the match. In the away leg at Foxboro Stadium, D.C. were held to a 1–1 draw in regulation time, with a goal for Richie Williams canceled out by Joe-Max Moore's penalty kick in the 72nd minute. The two teams played in a seven-round shootout that ended 4–3 in United's favor after a series of saves from goalkeepers Walter Zenga and Tom Presthus that was broken up by defender Carlos Llamosa's conversion.

In the conference finals, D.C. played the third-seeded Columbus Crew after they had eliminated the Tampa Bay Mutiny. In the first leg, played without Etcheverry who was on national team duty, United took a three-goal half-time lead that was reduced by two for a 3–2 victory after a second half surge in pressure and chances from the Crew. D.C. clinched their second MLS Cup appearance with a 1–0 win at Ohio Stadium in Columbus, with Díaz Arce scoring the lone goal in the 47th minute from within the  box.

Colorado Rapids

The Colorado Rapids finished last overall in MLS during the league's inaugural season, with a 11–21 record under head coach Bob Houghton, who was replaced in the offseason by Glenn Myernick. Myernick and new general manager Dan Counce implemented a possession-oriented style and overhauled the Rapids roster by signi