# 2006 New Orleans mayoral election

The first round of the New Orleans mayoral election of 2006 took place on April 22, 2006; a runoff between incumbent Mayor Ray Nagin and Louisiana Lieutenant Governor Mitch Landrieu took place on May 20, resulting in reelection for Mayor Nagin.  The Mayor of New Orleans is the top official in New Orleans' mayor-council system of government.

Background
Elections in Louisiana, with the exception of presidential elections, follow a variation of the open primary system called the jungle primary. All candidates, including those running with a political party and independents, are listed on one ballot. Voters may vote for any candidate regardless of what party they are registered.

If no candidate wins a majority (50 percent plus one vote) in the first round, a second round (run-off) is then held between the top two candidates, who may be members of the same party. As this occurred, the runoff took place on May 20, 2006.

This election was previously scheduled to be held on 4 February 2006 (along with elections for other local offices, including City Council members) but was postponed due to the devastation in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina (see: Effect of Hurricane Katrina on New Orleans), and the fact that large numbers of New Orleanians are displaced and still unable to return home.   Since this election would determine who would lead the city during its rebuilding process, the election was widely seen as one of the most important elections in the history of New Orleans and it was watched nationally to a degree uncommon for most mayoral races.

Candidates

In the primary campaign, incumbent mayor Ray Nagin faced a record 21 challengers for his position.  Many were political novices without significant financial backing.  In addition to Nagin, two candidates in particular were considered by political pundits to be "major candidates" because of their name recognition and financing—Ron Forman and Mitch Landrieu.  Others preferred not to distinguish between 'major' and 'minor' candidates, noting that, in the 2002 election, these same pundits considered Nagin a long-shot.  The top-financed candidate in that election, two-term city councilman Troy Carter, came in fifth.

Candidates in descending order of votes received
 Ray Nagin  Incumbent mayor Ray Nagin sought re-election.   Before Katrina, he was widely perceived as having a very high chance of re-election, but the new political climate left his level of support uncertain.   Nagin faced strong criticism of his handling of Hurricane Katrina and its aftermath.  Many middle- and upper-class white voters, who supported him in the 2002 election and were vital to his success in that contest, were alienated by his 'chocolate city' speech in January 2006, and very few white voters supported him this time.  The elements of the business community that were such an important part of his support base in 2002 mainly supported other candidates, while Nagin's business-oriented plans for reconstruction in New Orleans have alienated many voters.  Moreover, the city's black majority has been significantly reduced, and many in the city's black community were critical of Nagin even before the hurricane, citing amongst other issues the fact that he was known to have conservative politics and had supported Republican candidates in the past.  Nagin campaigned on his experience as mayor and in defense of his record, arguing that New Orleans needs experienced leadership in a crisis situation.   After being defeated in the primary, Rob Couhig, Virginia Boulet, and Tom Watson endorsed Nagin in the runoff.

 Mitch Landrieu  Louisiana Lieutenant Governor Mitch Landrieu, son of New Orleans's last white mayor Moon Landrieu and brother of Senator Mary Landrieu, announced his candidacy on February 21, after months of public speculation.  Landrieu ran for mayor once before, in the 1994 election, but finished third and was defeated by Marc Morial.  With the city's black majority much reduced after the hurricane, Landrieu was generally believed to have a stronger chance of victory this time around.  Given that he and his family have long been known as supporters of civil rights, he was seen as having a better chance of attracting a significant African American vote than some other white candidates.  While campaigning, Landrieu repeatedly criticized the rebuilding plan of Nagin's Bring New Orleans Back Commission, arguing that each neighborhood needs freedom to determine its own rebuilding process, and faulted Nagin for not doing more to pressure the federal government for information and funding.   Landrieu was endorsed by The Gambit, New Orleans CityBusiness, and The Louisiana Weekly newspapers.  After coming in third in the primary, Ron Forman endorsed Landrieu in the runoff.

 Ron Forman  Ron Forman has been president and CEO of the Audubon Nature Institute, which runs the Audubon Zoo and the Aquarium of the Americas, since 1977.  Forman supported Nagin in his 2002 electoral campaign, but broke with him after Katrina as buzz began to build around Forman as a potential challenger to Nagin. After much speculation, he formally announced his candidacy on February 14.  A former president of the Chamber of Commerce, he has a high profile in the city's business community and had strong support in the corporate world and among wealthy New Orleanians.  He had a large campaign war-chest and raised $2.1 million as of April 14, more money than any other candidate.  Forman proposed the creation of four deputy mayor posts, two white and two black, in an effort to promote better race relations.  Forman was endorsed by the Times-Picayune newspaper.

 Rob Couhig  Republican lawyer and businessman Rob Couhig formerly owned the New Orleans Zephyrs, a minor league baseball team.  His campaign platform included plans for a Rudy Giuliani-style crackdown on crime, selling off public hospitals, extensive bulldozing of blighted property, and a plan to retract the city's footprint by restricting rebuilding in the Lower Ninth Ward and New Orleans East.  Couhig entered the race in mid-February by running the campaign's first television attack ads, mocking the leading candidates.  In debates and public appearances, Couhig was one of the more combative candidates, regularly criticizing the front-runners.

 Virginia Boulet Corporate lawyer Virginia Boulet began her campaign in early February due to her dissatisfaction with Nagin's recovery plans.  She proposed financing the city budget through a bond issue, and instituting universal health insurance as a way to lure displaced residents back to the city.  She repeatedly emphasized the need to rebuild the wetlands east and southeast of New Orleans in order to protect the city from hurricanes.

 Tom Watson Pastor Tom Watson, an influential leader of the Greater New Orleans Coalition of Ministers, is active in programs to help youths in the city's poor neighborhoods. Watson has long been a critic of Nagin, and after declaring his candidacy on February 17 he became Nagin's first African American challenger.   Watson focused his campaign on the return of the New Orleans diaspora still scattered around the country after Hurricane Katrina, a constituency he says other candidates have neglected.  He also planned to address the racial and class divisions that impede the city's recovery and to reform the NOPD, which he characterizes as "corrupt and brutal."  He also proposed a cap on rents, which have skyrocketed since Katrina.

 Kimberly Williamson Butler  Clerk of Criminal Court Kimberly Williamson Butler made a surprise announcement on March 3 of her mayoral candidacy on the courthouse steps to reporters—who were there to cover her surrendering herself on an arrest warrant for contempt of court.

 Peggy Wilson Peggy Wilson was a city councilwoman from 1986 to 1998.  One of only two Republicans running, she was a favorite of some old line conservatives.  Wilson was also one of the few white candidates willing to discuss the city's changed racial demographics, openly stating that the shift in population after Katrina is part of the reason she decided to enter the race in November.  She campaigned on a proposal to declare New Orleans a 'tax-free city', financed with a federal bond issue, and attracted controversy with her vocal plans to keep "gangbangers" and "welfare queens" from returning to New Orleans.

 Johnny Adriani Johnny Adriani is a criminal defense paralegal who ran his campaign from his car after losing his home to flooding.

 Manny "Chevrolet" Bruno Manny "Chevrolet" Bruno is an out-of-work actor who said he was running because "I need the job".  He amused election watchers—in the current campaign and in his 2002 bid for mayor (under the slogan "A troubled man for troubled times") —with his deadpan, self-effacing humor. His campaign signs had a cartoon of a cocktail glass surrounded by the words "Good Cheap Fast" and the slogan "Troubled Now, More Than Ever".

 James Arey WWNO radio person