# April

April is the fourth month of the year in the Gregorian and Julian calendars. It is the first of four months to have a length of 30 days, and the second of five months to have a length of less than 31 days.

April is commonly associated with the season of spring in the Northern Hemisphere, and autumn in the Southern Hemisphere, where it is the seasonal equivalent to October in the Northern Hemisphere and vice versa.

History 

The Romans gave this month the Latin name Aprilis but the derivation of this name is uncertain. The traditional etymology is from the verb aperire, "to open", in allusion to its being the season when trees and flowers begin to "open", which is supported by comparison with the modern Greek use of άνοιξη (ánixi) (opening) for spring. Since some of the Roman months were named in honor of divinities, and as April was sacred to the goddess Venus, her Veneralia being held on the first day, it has been suggested that Aprilis was originally her month Aphrilis, from her equivalent Greek goddess name Aphrodite (Aphros), or from the Etruscan name Apru. Jacob Grimm suggests the name of a hypothetical god or hero, Aper or Aprus.

April was the second month of the earliest Roman calendar, before Ianuarius and Februarius were added by King Numa Pompilius about 700 BC. It became the fourth month of the calendar year (the year when twelve months are displayed in order) during the time of the decemvirs about 450 BC, when it was 29 days long. The 30th day was added back during the reform of the calendar undertaken by Julius Caesar in the mid-40s BC, which produced the Julian calendar.

The Anglo-Saxons called April ēastre-monaþ. The Venerable Bede says in The Reckoning of Time that this month ēastre is the root of the word Easter. He further states that the month was named after a goddess Eostre whose feast was in that month. It is also attested by Einhard in his work, Vita Karoli Magni.

St George's day is the twenty-third of the month; and St Mark's Eve, with its superstition that the ghosts of those who are doomed to die within the year will be seen to pass into the church, falls on the twenty-fourth.

In China the symbolic ploughing of the earth by the emperor and princes of the blood took place in their third month, which frequently corresponds to April. In Finnish April is huhtikuu, meaning slash-and-burn moon, when gymnosperms for beat and burn clearing of farmland were felled.

In Slovene, the most established traditional name is mali traven, meaning the month when plants start growing. It was first written in 1466 in the Škofja Loka manuscript.

The month Aprilis originally had 30 days; Numa Pompilius made it 29 days long; finally, Julius Caesar's calendar reform made it 30 days long again, which was not changed in the calendar revision of Augustus Caesar in 8 BC. 

In Ancient Rome, the festival of Cerealia was held for seven days from mid-to-late April, but exact dates are uncertain. Feriae Latinae was also held in April, with the date varying. Other ancient Roman observances include Veneralia (April 1), Megalesia (April 10–16), Fordicidia (April 15), Parilia (April 21), Vinalia Urbana (April 23), Robigalia (April 25), and Serapia (April 25). Floralia was held April 27 during the Republican era, or April 28 on the Julian calendar, and lasted until May 3. However, these dates do not correspond to the modern Gregorian calendar.

The Lyrids meteor shower appears on April 16 – April 26 each year, with the peak generally occurring on April 22. The Eta Aquariids meteor shower also appears in April. It is visible from about April 21 to about May 20 each year with peak activity on or around May 6. The Pi Puppids appear on April 23, but only in years around the parent comet's perihelion date. The Virginids also shower at various dates in April.

The "Days of April" (journées d'avril) is a name assigned in French history to a series of insurrections at Lyons, Paris and elsewhere, against the government of Louis Philippe in 1834, which led to violent repressive measures, and to a famous trial known as the procès d'avril.

Symbols 
April's birthstone is the diamond. The birth flower is the common daisy (Bellis perennis) or the sweet pea. The zodiac signs are Aries (until April 19) and Taurus (April 20 onward).

Observances 
This list does not necessarily imply either official status nor general observance.

Month-long 

 In Catholic, Protestant and Orthodox tradition, April is the Month of the Resurrection of the Lord. April and March are the months in which is celebrated the moveable Feast of Easter Sunday.
 National Pet Month (United Kingdom)

United States 
 Arab American Heritage Month
 Autism Awareness Month
 Cancer Control Month
 Community College Awareness Month
 Confederate History Month (Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Louisiana, Mississippi, Texas, Virginia)
 Financial Literacy Month
 Jazz Appreciation Month
 Mathematics and Statistics Awareness Month
 Month of the Military Child
 National Poetry Month
 National Poetry Writing Month
 Occupational Therapy Month
 National Prevent Child Abuse Month
 National Volunteer Month
 Parkinson's Disease Awareness Month
 Rosacea Awareness Month
 Sexual Assault Awareness Month

United States food months 
 Fresh Florida Tomato Month
 National Food Month
 National Grilled Cheese Month
 National Pecan Month
 National Soft Pretzel Month
 National Soyfoods Month

Non-Gregorian 
(All Baha'i, Islamic, and Jewish observances begin at the sundown prior to the date listed, and end at sundown of the date in question unless otherwise noted.)
 List of observances set by the Bahá'í calendar
 List of observances set by the Chinese calendar
 List of observances set by the Hebrew calendar
 List of observances set by the Islamic calendar
 List of observances set by the Solar Hijri calendar

Movable

Variable; 2021 dates shown 
 Youth Homelessness Matters Day
 National Health Day (Kiribati): April 6
 Oral, Head and Neck Cancer Awareness Week (United States): April 13–19
 National Park Week (United States): April 18–26
 Crime Victims' Rights Week (United States): April 19–25
 National Volunteer Week: April 19–25
 European Immunization Week: April 20–26
 Day of Silence (United States): April 24
 Pay It Forward Day: April 28 (International observance)
 Denim Day: April 29 (International observance)
 Day of Dialogue (United States)
 Vaccination Week In The Americas
 See: List of movable Western Christian observances
 See: List of movable Eastern Christian observances

First Wednesday 
 National Day of Hope (United States)

First Saturday 
 Ulcinj Municipality Day (Ulcinj, Montenegro)

First Sunday 
 Daylight saving time ends (Australia and New Zealand)
 Geologists Day (former Soviet Union countries)
 Kanamara Matsuri (Kawasaki, Japan)
 Opening Day (United States)

First full week 
 National Library Week (United States)
 National Library Workers Day (United States) (Tuesday of National Library week, April 4)
 National Bookmobile Day (Wednesday of National Library week, April 5)
 National Public Health Week (United States)
 National Public Safety Telecommunicators Week (United States)

Second Wednesday 
 International Day of Pink

Second Thursday 
 National Former Prisoner of War Recognition Day (United States)

Second Friday 
 Fast and Prayer Day (Liberia)
 Air Force Day (Russia)
 Kamakura Matsuri at Tsurugaoka Hachiman (Kamakura, Japan), lasts until third Sunday.

Second Sunday 
 Children's Day (Peru)

Week of April 14 
 Pan-American Week (United States)

Third Wednesday 
 Administrative Professionals' Day (New Zealand)

Third Thursday 
 National High Five Day (United States)

Third Saturday 
 Record Store Day (International observance)

Last full week of April 
 Administrative Professionals Week (Malaysia, North America)
 World Immunization Week

Week of April 23 
 Canada Book Week (Canada)

Week of the New Moon 
 National Dark-Sky Week (United States)

Third Monday 
 Patriots' Day (Massachusetts, Maine, United States)
 Queen's Official Birthday (Saint Helena, Ascension and Tristan da Cunha)
 Sechseläuten (Zürich, Switzerland)

Wednesday of last full week of April 
 Administrative Professionals' Day (Hong Kong, North America)

First Thursday after April 18 
 First Day of Summer (Iceland)

Fourth Thursday 
 Take Our Daughters And Sons To Work Day (United States)

Last Friday 
 Arbor Day (United States)
 Día de la Chupina (Rosario, Argentina)

Last Friday in April to first Sunday in May 
 Arbour Week in Ontario

Last Saturday 
 Children's Day (Colombia)
 National Rebuilding Day (United States)
 National Sense of Smell Day (United States)
 World Tai Chi and Qigong Day

Last Sunday 
 Flag Day (Åland, Finland)
 Turkmen Racing Horse Festival (Turkmenistan)

April 27 (April 26 if April 27 is a Sunday) 
 Koningsdag (Netherlands)

Last Monday 
 Confederate Memorial Day (Alabama, Georgia (U.S. state), and Mississippi, United States)

Last Wednesday 
 International Noise Awareness Day

Fixed 
 April 1
 April Fools' Day