# Angle

In Euclidean geometry, an angle is the figure formed by two rays, called the sides of the angle, sharing a common endpoint, called the vertex of the angle.
Angles formed by two rays are also known as plane angles as they lie in the plane that contains the rays. Angles are also formed by the intersection of two planes; these are called dihedral angles. Two intersecting curves may also define an angle, which is the angle of the rays lying tangent to the respective curves at their point of intersection. 

The magnitude of an angle is called an angular measure or simply "angle". Angle of rotation is a measure conventionally defined as the ratio of a circular arc length to its radius, and may be a negative number. In the case of a geometric angle, the arc is centered at the vertex and delimited by the sides. In the case of a rotation, the arc is centered at the center of the rotation and delimited by any other point and its image by the rotation.

History and etymology
The word angle comes from the Latin word , meaning "corner." Cognate words include the Greek  () meaning "crooked, curved" and the English word "ankle." Both are connected with the Proto-Indo-European root *ank-, meaning "to bend" or "bow."

Euclid defines a plane angle as the inclination to each other, in a plane, of two lines that meet each other and do not lie straight with respect to each other. According to the Neoplatonic metaphysician Proclus, an angle must be either a quality, a quantity, or a relationship. The first concept, angle as quality, was used by Eudemus of Rhodes, who regarded an angle as a deviation from a straight line; the second, angle as quality, by Carpus of Antioch, who regarded it as the interval or space between the intersecting lines; Euclid adopted the third: angle as a relationship.

Identifying angles
In mathematical expressions, it is common to use Greek letters (α, β, γ, θ, φ, . . . ) as variables denoting the size of some angle (to avoid confusion with its other meaning, the symbol  is typically not used for this purpose). Lower case Roman letters (a, b, c, . . . ) are also used. In contexts where this is not confusing, an angle may be denoted by the upper case Roman letter denoting its vertex. See the figures in this article for examples.

The three defining points may also identify angles in geometric figures. For example, the angle with vertex A formed by the rays AB and AC (that is, the half-lines from point A through points B and C) is denoted  or . Where there is no risk of confusion, the angle may sometimes be referred to by a single vertex alone (in this case, "angle A").

Potentially, an angle denoted as, say,  might refer to any of four angles: the clockwise angle from B to C about A, the anticlockwise angle from B to C about A, the clockwise angle from C to B about A, or the anticlockwise angle from C to B about A, where the direction in which the angle is measured determines its sign (see ). However, in many geometrical situations, it is evident from the context that the positive angle less than or equal to 180 degrees is meant, and in these cases, no ambiguity arises. Otherwise, to avoid ambiguity, specific conventions may be adopted so that, for instance,  always refers to the anticlockwise (positive) angle from B to C about A and  the anticlockwise (positive) angle from C to B about A.

Types of angles

Individual angles
There is some common terminology for angles, whose measure is always non-negative (see ):
 An angle equal to 0° or not turned is called a zero angle.
 An angle smaller than a right angle (less than 90°) is called an acute angle ("acute" meaning "sharp").
 An angle equal to  turn (90° or  radians) is called a right angle. Two lines that form a right angle are said to be normal, orthogonal, or perpendicular.
 An angle larger than a right angle and smaller than a straight angle (between 90° and 180°) is called an obtuse angle ("obtuse" meaning "blunt").
 An angle equal to  turn (180° or  radians) is called a straight angle.
 An angle larger than a straight angle but less than 1 turn (between 180° and 360°) is called a reflex angle.
 An angle equal to 1 turn (360° or 2 radians) is called a full angle, complete angle, round angle or perigon.
 An angle that is not a multiple of a right angle is called an oblique angle.

The names, intervals, and measuring units are shown in the table below:

Vertical and  angle pairs

When two straight lines intersect at a point, four angles are formed. Pairwise, these angles are named according to their location relative to each other.

A transversal is a line that intersects a pair of (often parallel) lines and is associated with alternate interior angles, corresponding angles, interior angles, and exterior angles.

Combining angle pairs
Three special angle pairs involve the summation of angles:

Polygon-related angles

 An angle that is part of a simple polygon is called an interior angle if it lies on the inside of that simple polygon. A simple concave polygon has at least one interior angle, that is, a reflex angle.   In Euclidean geometry, the measures of the interior angles of a triangle add up to  radians, 180°, or  turn; the measures of the interior angles of a simple convex quadrilateral add up to 2 radians, 360°, or 1 turn. In general, the measures of the interior angles of a simple convex polygon with n sides add up to (n − 2)  radians, or (n − 2)180 degrees, (n − 2)2 right angles, or (n − 2) turn.
 The supplement of an interior angle is called an exterior angle; that is, an interior angle and an exterior angle form a linear pair of angles. There are two exterior angles at each vertex of the polygon, each determined by extending one of the two sides of the polygon that meet at the vertex; these two angles are vertical and hence are equal. An exterior angle measures the amount of rotation one must make at a vertex to trace the polygon. If the corresponding interior angle is a reflex angle, the exterior angle should be considered negative. Even in a non-simple polygon, it may be possible to define the exterior angle. Still, one will have to pick an orientation of the plane (or surface) to decide the sign of the exterior angle measure.   In Euclidean geometry, the sum of the exterior angles of a simple convex polygon, if only one of the two exterior angles is assumed at each vertex, will be one full turn (360°). The exterior angle here could be called a supplementary exterior angle. Exterior angles are commonly used in Logo Turtle programs when drawing regular polygons.
 In a triangle, the bisectors of two exterior angles and the bisector of the other interior angle are concurrent (meet at a single point).
 In a triangle, three intersection points, each of an external angle bisector with the opposite extended side, are collinear.
 In a triangle, three intersection points, two between an interior angle bisector and the opposite side, and the third between the other exterior angle bisector and the opposite side extended are collinear.
 Some authors use the name exterior angle of a simple polygon to mean the explement exterior angle (not supplement!) of the interior angle. This conflicts with the above usage.

Plane-related angles
 The angle between two planes (such as two adjacent faces of a polyhedron) is called a dihedral angle. It may be defined as the acute angle between two lines normal to the planes.
 The angle between a plane and an intersecting straight line is equal to ninety degrees minus the angle between the intersecting line and the line that goes through the point of intersection and is normal to the plane.

Measuring angles

The size of a geometric angle is usually characterized by the magnitude of the smallest rotation that maps one of the rays into the other. Angles of the same size are said to be equal congruent or equal in measure.

In some contexts, such as identifying a point on a circle or describing the orientation of an object in two dimensions relative to a reference orientation, angles that differ by an exact multiple of a full turn are effectively equivalent.  In other contexts, such as identifying a point on a spiral curve or describing an object's cumulative rotation in two dimensions relative to a reference orientation, angles that differ by a non-zero multiple of a full turn are not equivalent.

To measure an angle θ, a circular arc centered at the vertex of the angle is drawn, e.g., with a pair of compasses. The ratio of the length s of the arc by the radius r of the circle is the number of radians in the angle:

Conventionally, in mathematics and the SI, the radian is treated as being equal to the dimensionless unit 1, thus being normally omitted.

The angle expressed by another angular unit may then be obtained by multiplying the angle by a suitable conversion constant of the form , where k is the measure of a complete turn expressed in the chosen unit (for example,  for degrees or 400  grad for gradians):

The value of  thus defined is