# Music of ancient Rome

The music of ancient Rome was a part of Roman culture from the earliest of times. Songs (carmen) were an integral part of almost every social occasion. The Secular Ode of Horace, for instance, was commissioned by Augustus and performed by a mixed children's choir at the Secular Games in 17 BC. Music was customary at funerals, and the tibia (Greek aulos), a woodwind instrument, was played at sacrifices to ward off ill influences. Under the influence of ancient Greek theory, music was thought to reflect the orderliness of the cosmos, and was associated particularly with mathematics and knowledge.

Etruscan music had an early influence on that of the Romans. During the Imperial period, Romans carried their music to the provinces, while traditions of Asia Minor, North Africa, and Gaul became a part of Roman culture.

Music accompanied public spectacles, events in the arena, and was part of the performing art form called pantomimus, an early form of story ballet that combined expressive dancing, instrumental music, and a sung libretto.

History 
Ancient Roman music and singing originated from Etruscan music, and then Ancient Greek music. During its early history, it was mostly used for military purposes. According to Cicero, Roman musical tradition was adapted during the reign of Numa Pompilius. Music was initially discovered by Greek philosopher and mathematician Pythagoras. Pythagoras was able to find the first 7 pitches in a scale and this knowledge carried over into the Roman Empire.

Music in society 

Music was an important aspect of Roman religious rituals. It was used to set the rhythm of the ritual and invoke certain emotions. Various instruments had different roles in Roman religion. Ancient Roman art displays tibicines, or players of the tibia, playing behind altars. They are depicted wearing a toga with a head covering while perform an animal sacrifice. Some depictions show assistants holding the acerra or tankards and cups to assist the tibicen. The tibia was likely the most important instrument in the Roman Imperial cult. Tibicen were also used to drown out any distracting noise. To the ancient Romans, it must have been unimaginable for a sacrifice to lack music. Music, usually pipe music, would accompany public prayers. Cymbals and drums were used in rituals of the cult of Cybele and rattles were important to the cult of Isis. Female musicians, dancers, and singers would perform at a festival for the goddess Isis who had a temple in Rome. They would also perform at a festival dedicated to the Bona Dea. Several ancient Roman monuments were consecrated by musicians. The Salian priests would dance and sing while moving through the city in honor of Mars. Musicians would also play the flute to worship Mars. The Arval Brethren would also sing and dance to honor the goddess Ceres. Titus Livius, a Roman historian, described an incident where players of the flute were barred from eating and drinking in the temples. Afterward, they retreated to Tivoli, and were allowed to continue eating and drinking in the temples when the Senate realized there were no musicians for religious services. Processions of trumpeters and dancers were also important to the Pompa circensis. Which was a parade that preceded the games before religious festivals.

Music was a popular form of entertainment in ancient Rome. It was important to ancient Roman games. Gladiatorial fights began with a blast of horns and were accompanied by music. Musicians, usually players of the tuba or large aerophones would play during triumphs. The tibia was used to draw in the viewer's attention during the ceremony and a trumpet was used to announce the presence of the triumphator. Music was also used to silence the crowd. Music, primarily pipe music, held an important place in ancient Roman theatre. During plays, the actors, pantomimes, and tragedians would be accompanied by a chorus of singers and an orchestra of wind or percussion instruments. They would dance to the tune of the instruments. Musicians could be driven off of the stage for even small musical errors. The tune of the instruments would signify the emotions and traits of the characters and the pace of the story. Music was also used to ensure the story remained in the memory of audiences.

Romans would sometimes hold private musical concerts known as symphoniaci. These parties were associated with debauchery in ancient Rome. Lucius Calpurnius Piso Caesoninus, the consul in 58 BCE, was known to hold such parties. His house was described as filled with "singing and cymbals." Private musicians could be hired to provide entertainment during dinners or parties. Sometimes these private musicians were specially trained slaves. Ancient Roman women are depicted as having sung and danced in the privacy of their homes. Women in ancient Rome had different instruments from men. They played the harp, the aulos, and smaller lyres. Domitian established contests that included music, gymnastics, and riding competitions. Nero created the Quinquennial Neronia, which was a festival involving musical competitions. The Actian games, which was an ancient Roman festival of Apollo, also held musical competitions. The Greeks and Romans might have held musical performances in between the meal and the drinking party during dinner.

The cornu and other instruments such as the tuba were used to give signals in the ancient Roman military. There were collegia dedicated to musicians. One collegium made up of flute and lyre players was attested for the first time in the second century CE. The collegium syphoniacorum would play at religious or official ceremonies. Another collegium, the Collegium tibicinum romanorum was dedicated to perform at public funerals. Musicians' Collegia were highly respected in ancient Rome. They were used to preserve and perfect ancient Roman musical practices.

Education and training 
Musical training and skills were common amongst the Roman upper-class, and it may have been especially common amongst female Romans of the upper-class. Singers were expected to spend large amounts of time and energy practicing their craft. In ancient Rome, the term for music or speech teachers was phonascus. They focused on developing the flexibility of their student's voice. It also believed that a singer's neck should be soft and smooth to ensure that the voice did not sound harsh or broken. Marcus Tullius Cicero stated that musicians "sit for many years practicing delivery, and every day, before they begin to speak, gradually arouse their voices while lying in bed; and when they have done that they sit up and make their voices run down from the highest to the lowest level, in some way joining the highest and the lowest together." According to The Twelve Caesars, Nero would train his voice by avoiding harmful fruits and drinks, purging himself with vomiting and enemas, and lying on his back with a lead sheet on his chest. Quintilian believed that maintaining good physical health through diet and exercise was important for maintain a proper voice. According to Quintilian, abstaining from sex was also important for a singer. Other ancient texts describe singers perform warm-up exercises consisting of vocalized successive sounds before singing. There may have been "music schools" for musicians of low class.

Cultural views 
In ancient Rome music was confined to domestic settings. Plutarch praises a man named Numerius Furius, who is said to have sung when it was "appropriate." Music had some negative connotations in Roman society. Cornelius Nepos, a Roman historian and biographer, in his biography of Epaminondas describes his famed skill at music and dancing as a negative characteristic. He described his musical talents as: "trivial, or rather, contemptible" Plutarch wrote that the prominence of the flute in Theban society was designed by their legislators to "relax and mollify their strong and impetuous natures in earliest boyhood." The ancient Romans considered music to be a powerful tool and believed that it was capable of inciting strong emotions in people. Cicero and Aristides Quintilianus believed that music was capable of ennobling the populace. Quintilian believed that music was "the most beautiful art" and that it was necessary for properly reading the work of ancient poets. It was a common belief throughout the Roman world that traditional styles of music should be maintained.  Pliny wrote that musicians would change their art based on popular demand. Cicero discussed the superior quality of traditional Roman music. He describes archaic Roman music as civilizing the "barbaric." Cicero believed that musical education could help aspiring politicians learn to better listen to other's arguments and detect imperfections. Numerous ancient Roman writers such as Plato, Seneca, or Cicero believed that music could effeminize men. Female musicians were highly respected compared to male musicians. It was seen as a potential way of enhancing