# Congolese rumba

Congolese rumba, also known as African rumba, is a dance music genre originating from the Democratic Republic of the Congo (formerly Zaire) and the Republic of the Congo (formerly French Congo). With its rhythms, melodies, and lyrics, Congolese rumba has gained global recognition and remains an integral part of African music heritage. In December 2021, it was added to the UNESCO list of intangible cultural heritage.

Emerging in the mid-20th century in the urban centers of Kinshasa and Brazzaville during the colonial era, Congolese rumba originated from a fusion of various musical influences, including Kongolese maringa dance music and Cuban son. Congolese rumba customarily features lively guitar melodies, groovy basslines, catchy rhythms, and danceable beats. The genre's roots can be traced to the 1930s, when African musicians, particularly those from the Congo Basin, incorporated guitar, bottles, and ikembe to perform songs in traditional forms combined with Cuban son. This gave rise to soukous, a genre characterized by its lively rhythms, intricate high-pitched guitar melodies, and large brass and polyrhythmic percussion sections.

The style has gained widespread popularity in Africa, reaching countries like Tanzania, Kenya, Uganda, Rwanda, Zimbabwe, Madagascar, Zambia, Ivory Coast, Gambia, Nigeria, Ghana, South Sudan, Senegal, Burundi, Malawi, and Namibia. Additionally, it has found a following in Europe, particularly in France, Belgium, Germany, and the UK, as well as the US, as a result of touring by Congolese musicians, who have performed at various festivals internationally. Musicians such as Henri Bowane, Wendo Kolosoy, Franco Luambo Makiadi, Le Grand Kallé, Nico Kasanda, Tabu Ley Rochereau, Sam Mangwana, Papa Noel Nedule, Vicky Longomba, and Papa Wemba have made significant contributions to the genre, pushing its boundaries and incorporating modern musical elements.

History

Origins
A proposed etymology for the term "rumba" is that it derives from the Kikongo word nkumba, meaning "belly button", denoting the native dance practiced within the former Kingdom of Congo, encompassing parts of the present-day Democratic Republic of the Congo, Republic of the Congo, and Angola. Its rhythmic foundation draws from Bantu traditions, notably the Palo Kongo religion, which traces back to the Kongo people who were unceremoniously transported to Cuba by Spanish settlers in the 16th century. According to Miguel Ángel Barnet Lanza's On Congo Cults of Bantu Origin in Cuba, the majority of African slaves brought to Cuba were of Bantu origin, although later, the Yoruba from Nigeria became the primary group of slaves in Cuba. Despite the tribulations endured by enslaved Africans, their musical traditions, dance forms, and spiritual practices from were covertly preserved across generations within regions characterized by significant populations of enslaved Africans. Musical instruments like the conga, makuta, catá, yambu, claves, güiro, and cajón de rumba were used to craft a musical dialogue that engaged in call-and-response with ancestral spirits and the deceased. Notable figures like Arsenio Rodríguez blended traditional Bakongo sounds with Cuban son.

Late 1920s–1950s

According to Phyllis Martin's Leisure and Society in Colonial Brazzaville, the popular partnered dance music in the former Belgian Congo and French Congo, which now constitute the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Republic of the Congo, respectively, was known as maringa. It involved a small skin-covered frame drum called patenge for counter-rhythms, a bottle functioning as a triangle, and an accordion known as likembe. The distinctive movements of maringa dancers involved a rhythmic hip sway that shifted body weight alternately from one leg to the other, reminiscent of the Afro-Cuban rumba dance, which later eclipsed older dances and musical forms. The popularity of partnered dancing traversed the Congo region by 1930. Ethnomusicology professor Kazadi wa Mukuna of Kent State University explains that many recording studio proprietors at the time sought to reinterpret the term maringa by infusing it with the new "rumba" rhythm, while retaining its original name. In 1934, Jean Réal, a French entertainment director from Martinique, coined the term "Congo Rumba" when he founded an ensemble by that name in Brazzaville. Clément Ossinondé, a Congolese musicologist specializing in Congolese music, notes that among the Congolese musicians affiliated with Congo Rumba, Gabriel Kakou and Georges Mozebo were prominent figures instrumental in popularizing Congolese rumba and mentoring emerging local musicians. By 1937, Réal had refined his arrangements and equipped local musicians with contemporary instruments, leading to substantial advantages for native artists, including Alphonse Samba, Michel Kouka, Georges Nganga, Côme Batoukama (guitars), Vital Kinzonzi (accordion), Emmanuel Dadet (saxophone, guitar, and more), and Albert Loboko (banjo, piano, guitar).

In the early 1940s, the music of Cuban son groups, such as Septeto Habanero, Trio Matamoros, and Los Guaracheros de Oriente, was played on Radio Congo Belge in Léopoldville, gaining popularity in the country during the following decades. Maringa dance music—although unrelated to Cuban rumba—became known as "Congolese rumba", as imported records by Sexteto Habanero and Trio Matamoros were often mislabeled as "rumba". Various artists and groups emerged on the Congolese music scene, with Paul Kamba in 1941 (Victoria Brazza) and Antoine Wendo Kolosoy in 1943 (Victoria Kin) being credited as pioneers of modern Congolese music. Local musicians associated with eclectic Congolese labels owned by white settlers began producing a similar style of Congolese rumba, often characterized by a slower tempo and minimal distinctions between orchestras, such as African Jazz, OK Jazz, Conga Jazz, Negro Band, and Rumbanella Band, among others. Although the band names frequently included the word "jazz", Martin notes that "the essential musical inspiration came from African and Latin American roots". The name "jazz" was used because young men were bedazzled by the American soldiers, especially African Americans, who were based at a military camp in Léopoldville during the Second World War.

In 1957, Congolese rumba underwent a significant development, with the emergence of two prominent schools: the OK Jazz School, which embraced a style known as odemba, characterized by a fast tempo and influenced by the odemba rhythm from the Mongo folklore of Mbandaka along the Congo River that later evolved into Soukous music; and the African Jazz School, which introduced "rumba-rock", a faster tempo. One of the musical innovations of Franco Luambo's OK Jazz was the mi-solo (meaning "half solo") guitarist, playing arpeggio patterns and filling a role between the lead and rhythm guitars. The band held sway over the Congolese rumba style until 1959, when Les Bantous de la Capitale was established, ushering in a third musical school of Congolese rumba.

1960s–1970s

By the late 1960s, Congolese rumba was an established genre in most of Central Africa, and it would also impact the music of West and East Africa. Certain artists who had performed in Franco Luambo and Grand Kalle's bands went on to establish their own ensembles. Tabu Ley Rochereau and Nico Kasanda formed African Fiesta in 1963. Nico's faction, including Mwamba Déchaud, went on to create a new ensemble called Docteur Nico and African Fiesta Sukisa, while Rochereau and Roger Izeidi founded African Fiesta National. Others, such as Mujos and Depuissant, departed to join different musical collectives. They were joined by Papa Wemba and Sam Mangwana, and classics like Afrika Mokili Mobimba made them one of Africa's most prominent bands. 

While Congolese rumba influenced bands such as Lipua-Lipua, Veve, TPOK Jazz, and Bella Bella, younger Congolese musicians sought to diminish that influence and embrace a faster-paced soukous style of the OK Jazz School. In 1969, a collective of students known as Zaïko Langa Langa, led by vocalist Papa Wemba, emerged, introducing a fourth school of Congolese rumba, characterized by its unconventional structure, abrupt movements, and intricate elements. This innovation brought distinctive features, such as variations in drum tempo, snare drum usage, sebene (repeated musical note sequences), and an entertainment ensemble comprising atalaku (singing entertainers), a unified choir, a soloist, and the dynamic "shocked" dance, featuring intricate body movements. Pepe Kalle, a protégé of Grand Kallé, established the band Empire Bakuba together with Papy Tex, and they also gained popularity in Africa, playing a stripped-down, high-energy interpretation of Franco and Rochereau's music.

21st century
In December 2021, Congolese rumba was added to the UNESCO Representative List of the Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity.

Musical examples
The following example is from the Congol