# Dick Cheney hunting accident

On February11, 2006, then-United States vice president Dick Cheney shot Harry Whittington, a then-78-year-old Texas attorney, with a 28-gauge Perazzi shotgun while participating in a quail hunt on a ranch in Riviera, Texas. Both Cheney and Whittington called the incident an accident.

The incident was reported to the Corpus Christi Caller-Times on February12, 2006, by ranch owner Katherine Armstrong. The Bush administration disclosed the shooting incident to the public the afternoon of February12. Local authorities released a report on the shooting on February16, 2006, and witness statements on February22.

On February14, 2006, Whittington suffered a non-fatal heart attack and atrial fibrillation due to at least one lead-shot pellet lodged in or near his heart. He also had a collapsed lung. Cheney did not speak publicly about the incident until February15 in an interview with Fox News. Early reports indicated that Cheney and Whittington were friends and that the injuries were minor.  Whittington later clarified that he and Cheney were not close friends but acquaintances.

Shooting incident

Day of shooting
The shooting was widely reported to have taken place on Saturday, February11, 2006, based on the public statements of Katherine Armstrong, owner of the  Armstrong Ranch. However, in her statement to the Sheriff, she said the shooting happened on February12.  Harry Whittington said shortly after the incident, "Accidents do and will and that's what happened last Friday (February 10)."

Time of shooting

Mary Matalin stated on Meet the Press that "Somebody had talked to some ranch hand". Neither the Sheriff's report nor witness statements identify who this first reporter was.

The Secret Service said that they gave notice to the Sheriff about one hour after the shooting. Kenedy County Sheriff Ramone Salinas III states he first heard of the shooting at about 5:30p.m. from Captain Charles Kirk, and Salinas implies that he received 'official' notice from the Secret Service at about 5:40p.m.

The time of the shooting was not stated by Cheney.

The events
Cheney had a televised interview about the shooting on February15. On February22, the Sheriff's office released statements from Katherine Armstrong, Sarita Hixon, Pamela Pitzer Willeford, Oscar Medellin, Gerardo Medellin, and Andrew Hubert. Cheney's statement and all six other hunting party members specify that Cheney, Whittington, and Willeford had shot at a covey of birds. While Whittington was searching for a downed bird, Cheney, Willeford, and a guide walked towards another covey about  away.  Whittington approached within  of the shooters, at which point a single bird flew up, around, and behind Cheney in the direction of Whittington.  Cheney shot at the bird and hit Whittington.

Armstrong, the ranch owner, claimed that all in the hunting party were wearing blaze-orange safety gear and none had been drinking, and that at lunch they drank beer, which is slightly contradictory to her later statement that "there may (have been) a beer or two in [the lunch coolers], but remember not everyone in the party was shooting." Cheney has acknowledged that he had one beer four or five hours prior to the shooting. Armstrong said she never saw Cheney or Whittington drink until later at the house, where Cheney had a few cocktails. Armstrong did not actually see the incident happen, believing that the reason Cheney's security detail was running was that Cheney had a heart problem, but Cheney described her as an eyewitness in his Fox interview.

Secret Service agents and medical aides, who were traveling with Cheney, came to Whittington's assistance and treated his birdshot wounds to his right cheek, neck, and chest. An ambulance standing nearby for the Vice President took Whittington to close by Kingsville before he was flown by helicopter to Corpus Christi Memorial Hospital in Corpus Christi.

People present
At the scene:
 Dick Cheney (shooter)
 Harry Whittington (victim)
 Pamela Pitzer Willeford (eyewitness)
 Oscar Medellin (outrider, between Cheney and Willeford, flushed the bird)
 "Secret Service personnel" were reported to be with the two shooters and Oscar Medellin

In a car at an unstated distance away from the shooting:
 Katherine Armstrong, owner of the ranch
 Sarita Storey Armstrong Hixon, Armstrong's sister

Texas Parks and Wildlife Department report
On February13, 2006, the Texas Parks and Wildlife Department (an agency once headed by Armstrong) issued an incident report. According to the report, Cheney "was swinging on game" (i.e. turning to track it with his shotgun). The summary of the incident given was:

The report cited clear and sunny weather at the time of the shooting.

Whittington's injuries
Whittington was injured in the face, neck, and upper torso. Whittington was reported to be in stable condition at Corpus Christi Memorial Hospital and had been moved from intensive care to a "step-down unit" on Monday. Doctors decided to leave about 30 birdshot pellets lodged in his body rather than try to remove them. Each pellet was less than  in diameter.

On February14, 2006, at 6:30a.m., Whittington suffered a minor heart attack and atrial fibrillation due to the shot pellets lodged in or near his heart, as well as a collapsed lung. He was immediately moved back to the intensive care unit. At about 9 a.m., Whittington underwent a cardiac catheterization test to detect blocked or leaky arteries. From the test, doctors found a single lead pellet.

Hospital officials said Whittington was alert and stable and that he did not experience chest pain or other symptoms of a heart attack. Doctors reported signs of inflammation, and Whittington was treated with anti-inflammatory drugs.

Whittington was subsequently discharged from the hospital on February17, 2006. At a press conference, he said: "My family and I are deeply sorry for everything Vice President Cheney and his family have had to deal with. We hope that he will continue to come to Texas and seek the relaxation that he deserves."

In a 2010 interview with The Washington Post, when asked if Cheney had apologized, Whittington declined to answer.

Information release
Though the shooting occurred on Saturday, February11, news of it was not released until after 2:00p.m. (Eastern Standard Time) on Sunday, February12. Kathryn Garcia, a reporter for the Corpus Christi Caller-Times, broke the story at 1:48p.m. after receiving an 11:00a.m. call from Katherine Armstrong, the owner of the ranch where the shooting occurred. Armstrong had notified Cheney earlier in the morning that she would inform the news media about the incident. She said Cheney agreed. Armstrong said that Whittington did not announce his location, and this led to the incident.

According to White House Press secretary Scott McClellan, news at the White House about the shooting "...was coming in to people back here, all the way at 3:00a.m. [Sunday] and beyond." McClellan would not state when the President first learned that Cheney had shot Whittington. When McClellan was asked if Andy Card had told Karl Rove that Cheney was the shooter, McClellan said: "...we still didn't have all the details at that point and additional details were coming into Andy Card at even three [...] in the morning and beyond."

The White House did not disclose the accident until a press conference on Sunday afternoon. McClellan said he did not know Cheney had shot someone until that Sunday morning. He remarked that he did ask the Vice President's office to release the information earlier. He said: "I think you can always look back at these issues and look at how to do a better job."

On February15, Cheney agreed to comment publicly about the accident on the Fox News Channel. He had previously avoided reporters by leaving an Oval Office meeting with United Nations Secretary-General Kofi Annan. Cheney visited Whittington in the hospital on Monday, February13, and at other times, telephoned him.

In the Fox News interview, Cheney accepted full responsibility for the accident.

Cheney acknowledged that White House Counselor Dan Bartlett and Scott McClellan "urged us to get the story out". Cheney said he was more concerned about accuracy and felt that Armstrong was the best person to make the announcement.

Investigations

Secret Service spokesman Eric Zahren said that about an hour after Whittington was shot, the head of the Secret Service's local office called the Kenedy County sheriff to report the accident. Kenedy County Sheriff Ramon Salinas III receiving a call of 'official' notice from the Secret Service 8–10 minutes after a Saturday, February11, 5:30p.m. phone call from Captain Charles Kirk.

Kirk had called Salinas en route to the Armstrong Ranch to investigate a possible hunting accident. The ensuing official investigation was performed by the Kenedy County Sheriff's department and published in an Incident Report written by Chief Deputy Gilberto San Miguel Jr, a Supplement Report written by Sal