# Yangquan

Yangquan ( ) is a prefecture-level city in the east of Shanxi province, People's Republic of China, bordering Hebei province to the east.  Situated at the eastern edge of the Loess Plateau and the west side of the Taihang Mountains, known as "Rippling Spring" in ancient times. Yangquan occupies a total area of . According to the 2020 Census, Yangquan had a population of 1,318,505 inhabitants whom 1,037,456 lived in the built-up (or metro) area made of 3 urban Districts plus Pingding County now being conurbated. Yangquan is a new industrial city of Shanxi province.  It belongs to the warm temperate semi-humid continental monsoon climate zone. Yangquan City has jurisdiction over two counties and three districts.

Yangquan is the gateway of the Shanxi province, located in the middle of Taiyuan and Shijiazhuang, 100 kilometers apart. Yangquan is also located in the eastern developed areas and the central and western regions of the combination zone, and also located in the reasonable transport sector through Tianjin, Qingdao, Huanghua. There are the ninth pass and Niangzi pass of the Great Wall, the Cangshan tourist Scenic spot, the Guanshan Academy, the former residence of Shi Pingmei, the Liangjiazhai Hot Spring, and the Shinaoshan Forest Park.

In 2017, Yangquan achieved a regional gross domestic product of 67.2 billion yuan, an increase of 6.3 percent at comparable prices. Among them, the added value of the primary industry was 1.04 billion yuan, up 3.0 percent, the added value of the secondary industry was 32.04 billion yuan, an increase of 5.6 percent, and that of the tertiary industry was 34.12 billion yuan, an increase of 7.1 percent. The composition of the three industries was adjusted from 1.7 to 48.0 50.3 in 2016 to 1.5 to 47.7 50.8. The per capita regional GDP was 47790 yuan, or US$7078 at the average exchange rate in 2017.

Administrative divisions

Geography and climate
Yangquan has a rather dry, monsoon-influenced humid continental climate /semi-arid climate (Köppen Dwa/BSk), with cold and very dry winters, and hot, somewhat humid summers. The monthly 24-hour average temperature ranges from  in January to  in July, and the annual mean is . The diurnal temperature variation, not exceeding  in any month, is not large for provincial standards. More than 70% of the annual precipitation, which ranges from  in the entire prefecture-level city (PLC), occurs from June to September; throughout the PLC, sunshine totals 2700–2900 hours annually, and the frost-free period lasts 130–180 days.

Location domain 
Yangquan City is located in the east wing of central Shanxi Province, with geographical coordinates of 112 °5 °114 °4 east longitude and 37 °40 °40 °38 °31 °north latitude. It is located in the west of the middle of Taihang Mountain, north of Dingxiang County and Wutai County of Xinzhou, and east of Pingshan County and Jingxing County of Shijiazhuang, Hebei Province.

Southern Jinzhong Xiyang County, Jinzhong Shouyang County, Taiyuan Yangqu County;

It is about 106 kilometers long from north to south and about 42 kilometers from east to west.

the city has a total land area of 4559 square kilometers.

Geomorphology 

Yangquan City is located on the eastern edge of the Loess Plateau and belongs to the eastern mountainous area of Shanxi Province.

The landforms in the territory are mainly mountainous areas, while the rest are hills and plains.

The mountains include nine mountains.

On the northern city boundary is the Niudaoling Mountains, which is located at the junction of Zhoushan and Taihang Mountains.

There are two mountains on the northwest boundary, which is the branch of Zhoushan.

The rest of the mountains are arranged in two rows, east and west.

The eastern train consists of four mountains, from north to south are the Baima Mountains, the Qiulin Mountains, the Mianshan Mountains and the Aishan Mountains. They belong to the middle of the Taihang Mountains, with peaks ranging from 700 to 1700 meters above sea level.

Taihang Mountain is the boundary mountain of Hebei and Jin provinces, its eastern slope is steep, the foothills meet with the North China Plain, which is less than 100 meters above sea level; the western slope is gently inclined, and the mountains and hills are undulating.

The western column consists of three mountains, namely, the Northern Mountains, the Southern Mountains and the Qiling Mountains.

They have gone deep into the interior of the Shanxi Plateau, although the altitude is higher, but the ground fluctuation is slower than that in the east.

Among the mountains, there are some intermountain basins, mainly Xiyan basin in the west, Yucheng basin in the middle and Pingding basin in the south.

Hydrology 
Yangquan City, with the exception of 22 square meters in the west belongs to the Yellow River Basin, the rest belong to the Haihe River Basin.

There are more than 60 rivers in the territory, of which 34 have a watershed area of more than 10 square kilometers, and seven have a watershed area of more than 300 square kilometers and a river length of more than 30 kilometers, all of which belong to the Haihe River system.

Hutuo River and Mianhe River are the main rivers in the territory.

Hutuo River flows through the northern part of the city, is the Haihe River system of the five major rivers of the north source of the Ziya River, in the territory of the main tributaries are Wuhe, Longhua River, Shitang River and so on.

The Mianhe River is formed by the confluence of the Wenhe River and the Taohe River, distributed in the middle and south of the city; after leaving the country, it converges with the Gantao River (Songxi River) and flows into the Hutuo River.

There are also a number of rivers that leave the country directly.

History 

Yangquan City has a long history, according to the 1950s from Pingding northwest jujube smoke, Daliangding and other places unearthed cultural relics, the Middle Paleolithic Age, there will be human survival and reproduction here.

During the Tang, Yu, Xia and Shang dynasties, Yangquan City was handed down to be the place of ancient Jizhou.

During the Spring and Autumn period, there was a hatred of Judah in Yuxian County. 

Zhou Zhending king twelve years (457 years ago), Jinqing Zhibo extermination of feud; sixteen years (453 years ago), Han Zhao Wei three Jin, the city belongs to Zhao. Qin belongs to Taiyuan County.

At the beginning of the Western Han Dynasty, Shangai County was located in the city, and the county governance was in Xincheng Village, Pingding County, which belongs to Taiyuan County.

In the Eastern Han Dynasty, Shangai County belongs to Changshan State of Jizhou.

When the three Kingdoms, the north and south belong to Wei and state Leping County, Xinxing County.

The old system of Cao and Wei was used in the Western Jin Dynasty.

During the Sixteen Kingdoms of the Eastern Jin Dynasty, it belonged to Qian Zhao, Hou Zhao, ran Wei, Qian Yan, Qian Qin, Hou Yan, Northern Wei and other countries. During the Northern Wei Dynasty, the north and south belonged to Shiai County, Leping County, and Dingxiang County, Xinxing County, Wangzhou. After the whole territory belongs to the Eastern Wei Dynasty and the Northern Qi Dynasty. Sui in this Niangzi Wei Ze County, is Jingzhou, after the waste; in this county to buy the original Qiu County (later renamed Yu County), and Shiai County belong to Liaozhou.

In the early Tang Dynasty, the city belonged to the state, and later abandoned by the state. Shiai and Yuxian successively belonged to both prefectures and Taiyuan prefectures. In the first year of Tianbao (742), Shiai changed its name to Guangyang and moved to Guangyang Village.

The five dynasties belong to the late Tang Dynasty, the Post-Jin Dynasty, the Post-Han Dynasty and the Northern Han Dynasty.

In the Northern Song Dynasty, Taiping Xingguo four years (979), changed Guangyang County to Pingding County, the county administration moved back to Pingding Shangcheng, Li Ping Dingjun; Yu County belongs to the state; after that, Pingding County and Yu County both belong to Hedong Road.

Jin Shengping Dingzhou, Yuzhou, is Hedong Road, he Northeast Road.

Yuan belongs to Jining Road.

In the Ming Dynasty, Yuzhou was reduced to a county, and Pingding Prefecture belonged to Taiyuan House in Shanxi Province.

Qing Yongzheng two years (1724), pacified as Zhili Prefecture, the addition of Yu County, Shouyang County, is Shanxi Province.

At the beginning of the Republic of China, it was Pingding County and Yu County, which belonged to Jining Road in Shanxi Province and was directly under the jurisdiction of Shanxi Province. During the War of Resistance against Japan, Ping (Lubei) County, Ping (Ding) East County and Ping (Ding) West County, Yu County divided into Pen (County) Ping (Shan) County, Pen (County) Yang (qu) County, Pen (County) Shou (Yang) County; To the south of Zhengtai Railway, Ping (Ding) East and Ping (Ding) West two counties belong to the Shanxi-He