# Eddie Zosky

Edward James Zosky (born February 10, 1968) is a former professional baseball shortstop. He played in brief parts of five seasons in Major League Baseball, between 1991 and 2000, for the Toronto Blue Jays, Florida Marlins, Milwaukee Brewers and Houston Astros. He also played in the Baltimore Orioles, San Francisco Giants and Pittsburgh Pirates minor league systems.

Zosky was a collegiate star prior to playing professionally, becoming a member of Fresno State University's athletic Hall of Fame. He developed into a promising shortstop prospect for the Toronto Blue Jays in the early 1990s, being named their starting shortstop of the future multiple times, though injury problems and a lack of offense ended his hopes of stardom.

Zosky began his professional career in 1989 at the age of 21 and played for 12 seasons until the age of 32 in 2000. He spent most of his professional career in the minor leagues, spending parts of two seasons at the rookie level, part of one season at the Class A level, two full seasons at the Double-A level, parts of three seasons at the Triple-A level and seven full seasons at the Triple-A level. In total, he played in 1,056 minor league games, hitting .257 with 59 home runs and 407 RBI in 3,670 at-bats.  Defensively, he spent 752 games at shortstop, 147 games at third base, 139 games at second base, two games at pitcher and one game in the outfield. As a pitcher, he threw 1 innings, striking out two batters and allowing one earned run, posting a 6.75 ERA.

He spent parts of five seasons at the Major League level – 1991, 1992, 1995, 1999 and 2000. He played in 44 big league games, collecting eight hits in 50 at-bats for a .160 batting average. Though he never hit a home run, he did collect two triples and a double, while driving three runs in. Defensively, he played 30 games at shortstop (starting eight of them), four games at third base and three games at second base. He committed two errors for a .967 fielding percentage, while turning eight double plays.

At all levels, both Major League and minor league, Zosky hit a combined .256 with 59 home runs and 410 RBI in 3,720 at-bats.

Early and personal life
Zosky, who is Jewish, was born in Whittier, California to Ed and Yvonne Zosky and attended St. Paul High School in Santa Fe Springs, California, graduating in 1986.

College career
After his graduation from high school, he attended Fresno State University, where he mostly played shortstop. He hit .292 in his first season with Fresno State University, earning second-team all-league honors. In May 1988, he suffered from mononucleosis and an ankle sprain, slightly shortening his sophomore season. In addition, Zosky was selected to try out for the United States Olympic baseball team in June of his sophomore season, along with teammates Tom Goodwin and John Salles. Though he was considered the front-runner for the shortstop position on the Olympic squad, he did not make the team. During his junior and final season at Fresno State University, Zosky was named Sporting News and Baseball America All-Americans after posting a .370 batting average. In addition, he was named first-team All Big West, along with teammates Bobby Jones, Tom Goodwin and Rich Crane.

Draft
Zosky was drafted by Major League Baseball teams twice. Originally, he was drafted out of St. Paul High School by the New York Mets in the fifth round of the 1986 amateur draft, 128th overall. He did not sign, choosing to attend college instead.

He was next drafted by the Toronto Blue Jays 19th overall in the first round of the 1989 draft, out of Fresno State University. He was one of three Fresno State University alum drafted in the first round that year, the others being Steve Hosey (14th overall) and Tom Goodwin (22nd overall). It was the first time since the 1979 draft that three players were selected in the first round from the same school. The Blue Jays gave Zosky a $185,000 ($ today) signing bonus.

Professional career

Early minor league career
The initial plan was to have Zosky begin his professional career with the Dunedin Blue Jays of the Single-A Florida State League. However, citing poor performances by his current shortstops, Double-A manager Barry Foote had Zosky start with the Southern League Knoxville Blue Jays. He made his professional debut on July 4, collecting a hit and driving in Knoxville's lone run in his first professional game. He played 56 games at shortstop for Knoxville, batting .221 with a .303 slugging percentage.

In 1990, Zosky was ranked the third-best prospect in the Southern League. After he attended Major League spring training, he spent the entire season in the minor leagues, playing for the Knoxville Blue Jays and hitting .271 in 115 games – tying William Suero for the team lead in triples with seven.

Prior to the 1991 season, Baseball America named Zosky the 22nd-best prospect in professional baseball, ahead of Jeff Bagwell (32nd), Chipper Jones (49th) and Jim Thome (93rd). That season, he attended his second Major League spring training, and was in competition with Manuel Lee and Rene Gonzales for the starting shortstop position. However, after making six errors during the spring, he was deemed unready for Major League action and sent to minor league camp on April 1.

He spent most of the season with the Triple-A International League Syracuse Chiefs, hitting .264 with six home runs, 39 RBI and 69 runs. He led the team in both plate appearances and at bats, and, despite committing 24 errors in the field, he led league shortstops with 221 putouts, 371 assists and 88 double plays. His performance landed him a spot on the 1991 International League All-Star Team, as well as a September 1 promotion to the Major Leagues.

Major League debut
Though Zosky spent the majority of the 1991 season with the Syracuse Chiefs, he made his Major League Baseball debut that season as well. He appeared in his first big league game on September 2, against the Baltimore Orioles replacing shortstop Manuel Lee, who had been feeling dizzy and suffering from a stiff neck, in the top of the fourth inning. In the fifth inning, facing pitcher Dave Johnson in his first at-bat, Zosky singled to left field. Later in the game, he was replaced by Rance Mulliniks.

So anticipated was Zosky's debut that Toronto Star writer Dave Perkins compared Zosky's debut to Lou Gehrig in 1925, asking "Did Manuel Lee just become Manuel Pipp?" (in reference to Gehrig usurping Wally Pipp's first base position that season). The next day, September 3, he made his first Major League start, again against the Baltimore Orioles. Batting ninth in the starting lineup, he collected zero hits in three at-bats, striking out twice against pitchers Ben McDonald and Mike Flanagan.

He spent 18 games in total with the Toronto Blue Jays in 1991, batting .148 with two runs and two RBI in 27 at-bats. Though he did not hit a home run, two of his four hits were for extra bases—the first was a triple off of Bob Welch and the second was a double off of Denny Neagle. He also drove in his first career RBIs against Welch, scoring John Olerud and Candy Maldonado on the same play.

1992–1994: Zosky's Blue Jays career
Prior to the 1992 minor league baseball season, Baseball America ranked Zosky as the 82nd best prospect in professional baseball. Though he was expected to unseat Manuel Lee as the starting shortstop for the 1992 Major League season, he began the year with the Triple-A Syracuse Chiefs after posting a batting average of .151 and committing five errors during spring training.  Rather than giving Zosky the backup job, the Blue Jays gave it to non-roster invitee Alfredo Griffin, who had been signed previously.

He struggled early during the season with batting averages of .150 and .160 in April and May, respectively, and though he batted .350 in June, his season batting average was only .231. Following the conclusion of the 1992 minor league season in September, Zosky was promoted to the Toronto Blue Jays, with whom he appeared in eight games. He batted .286 in seven at-bats, with one of his two hits being a triple (which he hit off of José Mesa on September 14—exactly one year after his first career extra-base hit, which was also a triple). Following the 1992 regular season, Zosky played for the Tucson Javelinas in the newly formed Arizona Fall League, hitting .326.

As early as January 1993, Zosky was expected to be the Toronto Blue Jays' starting shortstop for the 1993 regular season. However, later that month Zosky was shut down due to a muscle problem in his throwing elbow. To provide insurance in case Zosky floundered, the Toronto Blue Jays signed veteran free agent Dick Schofield, who had played for the California Angels and New York Mets the previous season. They also re-signed Alfredo Griffin and traded Kelly Gruber and cash to the California Angels for Luis Sojo, who would provide even further insurance in case Zosky failed. Though Zosky was expected to be the starting sh