# Nanticoke, Ontario

Nanticoke is an unincorporated community and former city located on the western border of Haldimand County, Ontario, Canada. Nanticoke is located directly across Lake Erie from the US city of Erie, Pennsylvania.

Summary
Unlike the majority of Haldimand or Norfolk County, Nanticoke is a highly-industrialized community, which is southeast of Simcoe in neighbouring Norfolk County and south of Brantford. Nanticoke's residential area is bordered on the west by the Nanticoke Industrial Park, home to the Stelco Lake Erie Works and a number of smaller businesses, including Charles Jones Industrial, ESM, and Air Products. The neighbouring Nanticoke Refinery on the northeast and the former (demolished in 2019) Nanticoke Generating Station on the southeast are not part of the Industrial Park land, although this is frequently confused due to their proximity.

One of Nanticoke's nearby natural landmarks is Peacock Point, which is composed of modest working class houses. One of the closest communities to Nanticoke is Jarvis, which is only  to the north. There are plenty of streams, valleys, and Lake Erie within a short driving distance of Nanticoke. Selkirk Provincial Park is approximately  away and is the closest provincial park to Nanticoke.

Nanticoke is also home to an active port, located at .

History
Once considered to be a bustling farming and fishing community, and inhabited since the late 18th century, Nanticoke adapted itself to the Industrial Revolution and became a desired spot for heavy industry to move in through the decades.

The Battle of Nanticoke Creek was fought nearby on November 13, 1813. 

In 1974, Nanticoke was incorporated as a city within the Regional Municipality of Haldimand-Norfolk through the amalgamation of the towns of Port Dover and Waterford, the village of Jarvis, and parts of the townships of Rainham, Townsend, Walpole and Woodhouse. In 2001, the town and all other municipalities within the region were dissolved and the region was divided into two single-tier municipalities with city-status but called counties. What was the city of Nanticoke is now split between Haldimand County (Ward 1) and Norfolk County (Wards 6 and 7).

Wind turbines were implemented in this community in November 2013.

Demographics
As of the 2001 census, Nanticoke was home to 23,588 individuals over an area of 674.72 square kilometres for a population density of 35 people per square kilometre. The median age of the population was 39.9, 39.5 for Men and 40.3 for Women living in 9,748 private dwellings. The median household income in 2000 was $58,102.

Ethnicity
As of the 2001 census, 410 of the 23,425 citizens of Nanticoke, ON identified as a visible minority.

Additionally, 650 people identified as Aboriginal.

Religion
As of the 2001 census, 18,945 people living in Nanticoke, ON identified as following a Christian religion and 4,080 identified as having no religious affiliation.

Notable people
 Harold Cotton, retired ice hockey player
 Ryan Nie, retired ice hockey player

References

Communities in Haldimand County
Former cities in Ontario
Populated places disestablished in 2001
Populated places on Lake Erie in Canada