# List of baseball players who went directly to Major League Baseball

This is a list of baseball players who went directly to the major leagues. They are distinguished as a group by having made their North American professional baseball debut with a Major League Baseball (MLB) franchise without having previously played at the professional level. After their major-league debuts, many of these players appeared in professional leagues other than MLB. 

Included are multiple "bonus babies", who joined major-league rosters from 1947 to 1957 and from 1962 to 1965 under the bonus rule, which obligated major-league teams to keep players awarded large signing bonuses on their rosters for two seasons. Excluded are players who, prior to their major-league debut, appeared in any professional baseball game, such as within Minor League Baseball, Negro league baseball, professional leagues outside of North America (such as Nippon Professional Baseball), or independent baseball leagues. A player who participated only in offseason developmental baseball (such as winter league baseball) is not excluded.

The practice of players directly joining a major-league team has become increasingly rare since the MLB draft was instituted in 1965—it has only occurred nine times since 1980, and three times since 2000.

Players 

Listed below are baseball players who did not play baseball professionally before their MLB debuts. Each of these players, with the exception of Charlie Faust, Eddie Gaedel, and Herb Washington, first played amateur baseball in an organized sports league, typically at the high school or college level. Faust played two games with the 1911 New York Giants, essentially as a good luck charm under manager John McGraw. Gaedel, who stood , played one game with the 1951 St. Louis Browns, as a gimmick of owner Bill Veeck. Washington, who played for the Oakland Athletics in the mid-1970s, was put under contract by owner Charlie Finley due to his experience as a world-class sprinter.

References

Further reading

Major League Baseball lists