# Walsh Hall (University of Notre Dame)

Walsh Hall is one of the 32 Residence Halls on the campus of the University of Notre Dame.  Walsh is located on Main ("God") Quad, directly south of Sorin Hall and is directly north of the Knights of Columbus Building. It was built in 1909 and the architect was William J. Brinkmann. Among other buildings on the Main Quad of Notre Dame, Walsh Hall is on the National Register of Historic Places. The coat of arms is taken from the Walsh family.

History 
The cornerstone was laid May 12, 1909 by Archbishop Alexander Christie of Portland in a ceremony where the president of the university John W. Cavanaugh gave a short sermon. Walsh Hall was constructed at an estimated cost of $100,000 It was constructed in yellow brick, as most of the buildings in its surroundings, but its architectural style was more elaborate and decorated than previous buildings on campus. It was be three stories in height with basement and attic, with an auditorium located in the basement. It was formally dedicated and blessed on October 31, 1909 by Apostolic delegate monsignor Diomede Falconio.

It was built as a male dorm and could accommodate 104 students, and named in honor of the former president Fr. Thomas E. Walsh. Rev Thomas E. Walsh C.S.C created Notre Dame's first football team in 1887 and was only 28 when he was chosen by Rev, Edward Sorin to be appointed the sixth president of Notre Dame. Walsh expanded the University's curriculum and raised its academic standards. In the 1960s, the basement was home to the Knights of Columbus at Notre Dame, before the Knights of Columbus building was built. In 1967, the hall's rector Father Dan O'Neil, made Walsh into a "stay-hall," where students could live all four years if they so chose. This eventually became the standard model at Notre Dame.

During World War II, Walsh hosted the Naval Reserve Officers Training Corps.

When women were first admitted into the university in 1972, Walsh as well as Badin Hall were converted to female halls.

In 2009, it celebrated it 100th anniversary with events featuring alumni and current residents, a documentary, and with speeches by and reflections by Rev. Theodore Hesburgh and others.

Walsh Hall's chapel was renovated in 2012-2013 and is dedicated to the Visitation. During the renovations, stained glass windows featuring the Visitation of Mary to Elizabeth were installed.

In 2016, it was announced that the residents of Walsh Hall would live temporarily in Pangborn Hall for the 2016-2017 year while Walsh Hall underwent the most significant renovations any residence hall had until that time, taking a full year. The move was met with mixed responses, with some criticism. The renovation included new piping and plumbing, additional lounges with full kitchens, new elevators and restrooms, and important accessibility options.

Honors and awards
In 2011, Walsh was awarded with "Best Freshmen Orientation Program" and "Women's Hall of the Year."  2012 saw Walsh claim the championship in Interhall Lacrosse and in the Dorm Energy Competition.  In 2013, Walsh took trips to the Interhall Championships for both Flag Football and Lacrosse, won Brother-Sister Hall of the year, and broke a record at Washington Hall for highest attendance at a student event with the Mr. ND Pageant. In 2014-2015, the Wild Women were recognized for creating the Best New Event for "Pie Your President," the Best Diversity Event for the "I AM WILD" Photo Campaign, and "Brother-Sister Dorm of the Year" with Dillon Hall (again).  Walsh rounded out that year by winning the Interhall Lacrosse Championship and garnering the much coveted "Hall of the Year" award bestowed by the Hall President's Council. In the 2015-2016 and 2017-2018 academic years, they were again named "Women's Hall of the Year", earning the residents a dance under the dome of the main building for each title.

External links
 Walsh Hall student website
 Hall profile at the Office of Housing
 University of Notre Dame website

Notable residents
 Austin Carr
 Jim Seymour
 Terry Hanratty
 Theodore Hesburgh
 Eric Wieschaus
 Tom Demetrio
 Michelle McNamara '92 
 J.J. Philbin
 Hannah Storm

References

University and college buildings completed in 1909
University of Notre Dame residence halls
National Register of Historic Places in St. Joseph County, Indiana
Historic district contributing properties in Indiana
University and college buildings on the National Register of Historic Places in Indiana