# Oakland County Child Killer

The Oakland County Child Killer (OCCK) is the name given to the perpetrator(s) responsible for the serial killings of at least four children in Oakland County, Michigan, United States, between 1976 and 1977. The victims were held captive before being killed, and forensic DNA testing has indirectly implicated two suspects, one of whom has since died, with the other serving life in prison for offenses against children. A DNA profile of the main perpetrator was created from samples taken from some of the victims' bodies, but does not match the DNA of anyone named in connection with the case; the perpetrator's identity is unknown.

Background 
Between February 15, 1976, and March 16, 1977, two boys and two girls aged between 10 and 12 went missing outside their homes, en route to or from another location, in Oakland County, Michigan, north of Detroit. Each child's body was discovered in a public area within nineteen days of his or her disappearance. The children were all either strangled or shot, with the two boys having been sexually abused. Once the victims were dead, the offender dispersed their bodies around Oakland County in places where they could be seen from roadways. The four deaths triggered a murder investigation which at the time was the largest in U.S. history, with Detroit's two daily newspapers, as well as the area's numerous radio and television stations, covering the case. A presentation on WXYT radio, entitled Winter's Fear: The Children, the Killer, the Search, won the Peabody Award in 1977.

Victims

Confirmed
 Mark Douglas Stebbins, 12, of Ferndale, did not return home from an American Legion Hall on February 15, 1976. His body was found four days later, wearing the same clothes he was last seen in, lying on a pile of wood and dirt in the parking lot of a local office building in Southfield. He had been strangled and sexually abused with a foreign object, and had two lacerations to the left rear of his head. Rope marks were evident on both his wrists and ankles, indicating he had been bound during his captivity.
 Jill Robinson, 12, of Royal Oak, left her home on December 22, 1976, following an argument with her mother over dinner preparations. The following day, her bicycle was found behind a local hobby store, before her body was found alongside Interstate 75 in Troy, within view of Troy police station, on the morning of December 26. She had been shot in the face with a 12-gauge shotgun, and her body was fully clothed and wearing the backpack she had taken with her when she left home. Autopsy reports revealed that Robinson had been fed and cared for for at least three days before she was killed.
 Kristine Marie Mihelich, 10, of Berkley, was reported missing on January 2, 1977, after she failed to return home from a 7-Eleven store on 12 Mile Road at Oakshire. A mail carrier found her fully clothed body nineteen days later on the side of a rural road in Franklin Village. She had been smothered to death less than twenty-four hours earlier and her body lay within view of nearby homes.
 Timothy John King, 11, left his home in Birmingham and went to a pharmacy on the evening of March 16, 1977. After he failed to return home, an intensive search covering the entire Detroit metropolitan area was conducted, before his body was found on the evening of March 22 by two teenagers in a shallow ditch alongside Gill Road in Livonia. He had been sexually assaulted with a foreign object and suffocated approximately six hours earlier. Autopsy results revealed that King had eaten his favorite food-- Kentucky Fried Chicken-- shortly before his death, and that he was cleaned and groomed prior to his suffocation.

Suspected
 17-year-old Donna Serra went missing after hitchhiking to a beach after school in Macomb County, Michigan on September 29, 1972. Serra's body was discovered face down in a shallow creek on October 20, 1972, in her hometown of Ray Township in Macomb County, close to 27 Mile Road. Before she was killed, Serra had been imprisoned and drugged for several days. Her death was due to strangulation. Her murder remains unsolved.
 13-year-old Jane Louise “Janey” Allen went missing on August 8, 1976 and was last seen hitchhiking between Pontiac and Royal Oak in Oakland County, Michigan. Allen was found dead floating in a river in Miamisburg, Ohio, on August 11, 1976, four days later over 200 miles away from her Royal Oak home. Her wrists had been tied behind her back with torn strips of a T-shirt. Decomposition of the body left police unable to determine whether or not Allen had been sexually assaulted but they were able to ascertain that Allen had been dead before being dumped in the water. She had died from carbon monoxide poisoning.
 Kimberly Alice "Kim" King, 12, disappeared from Warren on September 15, 1979. She had stayed over at a friend's house that night. When she called her sister at 11:00 p.m., she claimed to have snuck out of her friend's house and to be phoning from a nearby outdoor phone booth. Her sister instructed her to return inside. However, Kimberly never went back to her friend's house and has not been seen or heard from since. Authorities believe she was abducted and that her disappearance is connected to the unsolved killings.

Possible
 Patricia Ann Spencer and Pamela Sue Hobley, both 16 and 15 respectively, were last seen in Oscoda, Michigan on October 31, 1969, the day of their high school's homecoming football game. A passing driver stopped to pick them up and drove them to a gas station at River Road and US-23. They were last seen strolling together on River Road away from the school and toward the business district. Both disappeared and have not been seen since. A link to the Oakland County Child Killer has been explored by investigators, though this was deemed unlikely.
 Laura Wilson, 16, went to a Bi-Rite Market in Detroit, Michigan, in the evening of November 10, 1972. She arrived at the market, but went missing shortly afterward. On November 10, 1972, youngsters in Wayne County discovered her dead body in bushes not far from her home. She had been assaulted and raped. Her head had also been smashed in with a brick. Evidence in her case was ordered destroyed by police in the late-1970s after authorities reinvestigated her case for links to the Oakland County Child Killer.
 On February 2, 1977, 10-year-old Valerie Bishop was attacked, raped, and stabbed, close to an empty house a short distance from the home she shared with her family on the west side of Detroit. She had gone to a corner store to get milk as part of an errand for her mother. At the time, the Oakland County Child Killer task force was active, but they chose not to look into or investigate Valerie's murder. 30-year-old Moses Potter was charged with her murder but was released due to a lack of evidence. No one else was ever arrested and her case remains unsolved.

Disproved
 16-year-old Judy Ferro was found beaten and strangled on January 1, 1976, at Lola Valley Park in Redford, Michigan. When she vanished between midnight and 3 a.m. from her customer's family home, she had been babysitting. A Redford Township policeman discovered Ferro's body at 7 a.m., fully dressed. When it was learned that Gary Pervinkler, 19, had left his home the same evening with a gun and his father's automobile, he was identified as a prime suspect. On April 7, 1976, Pervinkler's body was discovered; he had shot himself in the head. The firearm found next to Ferro's body matched a bullet casing discovered in the house from where Ferro was abducted. Her case was closed.
 Cynthia Rae “Cindy” Cadieux, 16, of Roseville, was found bludgeoned to death on January 16, 1976, in Bloomfield Township.  Cynthia had been abducted while hitchhiking in the 11 Mile area of Roseville, between Gratiot and Grosbeck, on January 14, 1976. Her naked body was found shortly after and she had been tied up, raped and then beaten to death. In 1979, Robert Anglin and Raymond Heinrich were both convicted of her murder. A third individual, who has not been named, was also involved, but he passed away before their arrest. Both men were sentenced to life in prison.
 Sheila Srock, 14, was raped and shot dead while babysitting in Birmingham, Michigan on January 20, 1976. Her killer, Oliver Rhodes Andrews, had burglarized several homes in the neighborhood earlier that evening, and a neighbor was a witness while snow shoveling his roof. Andrews was sentenced to life imprisonment.

Investigation
After the discovery of Mihelich's body, authorities noticed similarities shared by her case and those of Stebbins and Robinson, and reports were released warning the public that a serial killer was possibly operating in the Oakland County area. The Michigan State Police led a group of law-enforcement officials from thirteen communities in the formation of a task force, devoted solely to the investigation into the killings of the three children.

After King disappeared, a woman told authorities that s