# Montrose, Tasmania

Montrose is a residential locality in the local government area (LGA) of Glenorchy in the Hobart LGA region of Tasmania. The locality is about  north of the town of Glenorchy. The 2016 census recorded a population of 2152 for the state suburb of Montrose.
It is a suburb of Hobart.  The suburb is situated in close proximity with Rosetta. Montrose is the suburb directly north of Glenorchy. It is also in Montrose where the Montrose Foreshore Community Park is located.

History 
The suburb was named after Montrose Estate, established in 1806 by Robert Littlejohn. Built on the estate in 1813, Montrose House is the third oldest house in Tasmania. It is permanently listed on the Tasmanian Heritage Register.
Montrose was gazetted as a locality in 1961.

Fehlberg pickled onions
Elvina Fehlberg established Blue Banner Pickled Onions in the 1930s and operated a factory in Montrose starting in 1950. Coles Supermarkets acquired the family name in the 1980s, however the original recipe pickled onions has made a comeback under the Blue Banner namesake in recent years.

Hobart Savings Bank residences
Commencing July 1948, the Hobart Savings Bank constructed 38 brick residences near Riverway Road. The housing scheme was catered toward young couples, ex-servicemen and women. The housing designs emphasised diversity and quality, gaining popularity with well-tended gardens and enthusiastic homeowners. By June 1951, the bank moved its housing project to a new subdivision on Marys Hope Road, Rosetta, featuring 26 meticulously designed homes by A. Lauriston Crisp. Like the Riverway Road development, these homes were carefully planned for optimal sunlight and scenic views.

Geography
The waters of the River Derwent form most of the north-eastern boundary.

Road infrastructure 
National Route 1 (Brooker Highway) runs through from north-east to south-east.

Retail/facilities of Montrose
Montrose VET
Chemist
Convenience store
Montrose Bay Yacht Club
Caltex Service Station
Number 28 Metro Tasmania Bus Stop

Smelter contamination
The Risdon Zinc Works (trading as Nyrstar Hobart) at nearby Lutana, which has been in operation since 1917, continues to produce heavy metal contaminants affecting the air, land and estuary waters surrounding Greater Hobart.

Drawing from data complied in the National Pollutant Inventory, a report by the Australian Conservation Foundation placed Hobart at number 6 of Australia's most polluted cities in 2018. The data identified medium levels of air pollution in postcodes 7009 (Lutana, Derwent Park, Moonah, West Moonah) and 7010 (Glenorchy, Rosetta, Montrose, Goodwood, Dowsing Point) with average air contaminate readings of 40%  (nitric oxide () and nitrogen dioxide ()), and sulfur dioxide (SO2) contributing 57% of airborne emissions.

The Tasmanian Planning Scheme does not mandate the Glenorchy City Council to notify prospective buyers about potential land contamination within the City of Glenorchy.

References

Towns in Tasmania
Localities of City of Glenorchy