# Leibniz formula for determinants

In algebra, the Leibniz formula, named in honor of Gottfried Leibniz, expresses the determinant of a square matrix in terms of permutations of the matrix elements. If  is an  matrix, where  is the entry in the -th row and -th column of , the formula is

where  is the sign function of permutations in the permutation group , which returns  and  for even and odd permutations, respectively.

Another common notation used for the formula is in terms of the Levi-Civita symbol and makes use of the Einstein summation notation, where it becomes
 
which may be more familiar to physicists.

Directly evaluating the Leibniz formula from the definition requires   operations in general—that is, a number of operations asymptotically proportional to  factorial—because  is the number of order- permutations.  This is impractically difficult for even relatively small .  Instead, the determinant can be evaluated in  operations by forming the LU decomposition  (typically via Gaussian elimination or similar methods), in which case  and the determinants of the triangular matrices  and  are simply the products of their diagonal entries.  (In practical applications of numerical linear algebra, however, explicit computation of the determinant is rarely required.)  See, for example, . The determinant can also be evaluated in fewer than  operations by reducing the problem to matrix multiplication, but most such algorithms are not practical.

Formal statement and proof 

Theorem.
There exists exactly one function  which is alternating multilinear w.r.t. columns and such that .

Proof.

Uniqueness: Let  be such a function, and let  be an  matrix. Call  the -th column of , i.e. , so that 

Also, let  denote the -th column vector of the identity matrix.

Now one writes each of the 's in terms of the , i.e.

.

As  is multilinear, one has

From alternation it follows that any term with repeated indices is zero. The sum can therefore be restricted to tuples with non-repeating indices, i.e. permutations:

Because F is alternating, the columns  can be swapped until it becomes the identity.  The sign function  is defined to count the number of swaps necessary and account for the resulting sign change.  One finally gets:

as  is required to be equal to .

Therefore no function besides the function defined by the Leibniz Formula can be a multilinear alternating function with . 

Existence: We now show that F, where F is the function defined by the Leibniz formula, has these three properties.

Multilinear:

Alternating:

For any  let  be the tuple equal to  with the  and  indices switched.

Thus if  then .

Finally, :

Thus the only alternating multilinear functions with  are restricted to the function defined by the Leibniz formula, and it in fact also has these three properties. Hence the determinant can be defined as the only function  with these three properties.

See also

 Matrix
 Laplace expansion
 Cramer's rule

References
 
 

Determinants
Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz
Linear algebra
Articles containing proofs