# Talorg son of Uuid

Talorg son of Uuid (; died 653) was a king of the Picts from 641 to 653.

The Pictish king lists give him a reign of eleven or twelve years following his brother Bridei son of Uuid. A third brother, Gartnait son of Uuid, was king before Bridei, and some versions of the king lists have Talorg succeeding Gartnait directly. The three sons of Uuid were probably based in the southern Pictish territories south of the Mounth, and between them they ruled continuously from 631 to 653.

Uuid, Talorg's father, may be the same person as the Gwid son of Peithan recorded in the Welsh poem Y Gododdin as a leader allied with the northern Britons fighting against the Angles of Northumbria in the early 7th century. Gwid could have been either a Pictish ally of the Gododdin or a related northern British chief. His name may originally have read "Gwid son of Neithan", suggesting that he was the son of Neithon son of Guipno, king of the British kingdom of Alt Clut, who may in turn be the same person as the Nechtan grandson of Uerb recorded as king of the Picts from 595 to around 616. This theory, which is highly credible chronologically, would make Talorg and his brothers grandsons of Neithan and first cousins of both the later Pictish king Bridei son of Beli and the later king of Alt Clut Eugein.

Talorg's death is reported by the Annals of Ulster and the Annals of Tigernach for 653. He was succeeded by Talorgan son of Eanfrith, whose name is a diminutive meaning "Little Talorg", suggesting that Talorg and Talorgan were closely related, with Talorgan's mother possibly being Talorg's sister.

Notes

References

 Anderson, Alan Orr, Early Sources of Scottish History A.D 500–1286, volume 1. Reprinted with corrections. Paul Watkins, Stamford, 1990.

External links
CELT: Corpus of Electronic Texts at University College Cork includes the Annals of Ulster, Tigernach, the Four Masters and Innisfallen, the Chronicon Scotorum, the Lebor Bretnach (which includes the Duan Albanach), Genealogies, and various Saints' Lives. Most are translated into English, or translations are in progress.
Pictish Chronicle

653 deaths
Pictish monarchs
7th-century Scottish monarchs
Year of birth unknown