# Phibbs Exchange

Phibbs Exchange is a major transit exchange in the District of North Vancouver, British Columbia. Part of the TransLink system, it is home to routes serving the North Shore and provides connections to the cities of Vancouver and Burnaby. Opened on October 19, 1973, it is one of the four major transit exchanges on the North Shore (the others being Capilano University Exchange, Lonsdale Quay and Park Royal Exchange). The exchange is named after Charles J.P. Phibbs.

Structure and location
Phibbs Exchange is located directly next to the northern foot of the Ironworkers Memorial Bridge, which connects North Vancouver to East Vancouver and Burnaby. It can accommodate regular-length and articulated diesel buses and community shuttle buses only.

The exchange is also located a short distance from Capilano University and North Shore Studios. The Pacific National Exhibition grounds is also nearby, just across the bridge in Vancouver. The exchange is located next to a park and ride facility.

Security at Phibbs Exchange is the responsibility of the Transit Security Department. Transit security officers can be found making random patrols of the exchange and conducting fare inspections on board buses. North Vancouver RCMP also make random patrols of the exchange. Bus drivers also have the ability to call for transit security agents in the event of an incident.

Upgrades 
Construction for a major upgrade of the exchange began in November 2022 and is expected to be complete by mid-2024. On July 24, 2023, all of the buses were relocated to street-side stops to accommodate construction upgrades.

Routes

As of July 24, 2023, all bus bays were moved to street-side stops. Bays 1 through 3 are located on Main Street westbound. Bays 4 through 7 are located on Orwell Street northbound. Bays 8 through 10 are located on Oxford Street eastbound. Bays 11 and 12 are located on Orwell Street southbound. Bays 1 and 11 are used for unloading only. Bay 8 is dedicated for HandyDART vehicles.

See also
Kootenay Loop (the transit exchange just across the bridge)
List of bus routes in Metro Vancouver

References

External links
Map of Phibbs Exchange (PDF file)

TransLink (British Columbia) bus stations
Transport in North Vancouver (district municipality)