# United States African Development Foundation

The U.S. African Development Foundation (USADF) is an independent U.S. government agency established by Congress in 1980 to invest directly in African grassroots enterprises and social entrepreneurs. USADF's investments aim to increase incomes, revenues, and jobs by promoting self-reliance and market-based solutions to poverty. USADF targets marginalized populations and underserved communities in the Sahel, Great Lakes, and the Horn of Africa. It partners with African governments, other U.S. government agencies, private corporations, and foundations to achieve transformative results. 

The USADF measures grant success in terms of jobs created and sustained, household and enterprise incomes increased, and grantee organizations strengthened. For fiscal year 2021, Congress provided USADF with $33 million to carry out activities.  

By the time of its 40th anniversary in December 2020, USADF had invested over $265 million via nearly 4,000 grants to African enterprises and impacted over 10 million lives. A study by Foreign Policy Analytics in 2020 determined that for every $10,000 in USADF grant funding in Africa, 25 workers are hired in the agriculture sector, 19 people in youth-led enterprises, and 79 people in the electrical power sector. 

According to the OECD, The largest share of gross bilateral ODA from the United States went to sub-Saharan Africa and to partner countries in the least-developed country (LDC) category.

History
Created by an Act of Congress in 1980 as a government corporation, the African Development Foundation began program operations in 1984. It has since provided financing to more than 1,700 small enterprises and community-based organizations.

1977 – Senators Edward Kennedy and George McGovern sponsored S. 1348, the African Development Foundation Act, in the 95th Congress. It proposed to amend the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 to establish USADF to strengthen the bonds of friendship between the people of Africa and the United States and to assist in the development of Africa. It required such Foundation to cooperate with indigenous organizations representative of Africa and other private, regional, and international organizations. It also authorized such a Foundation to make grants, loans, and loan guarantees to African entities for developmental purposes and required the Foundation to give priority to community self-help projects with the maximum feasible participation of the poor. It also provided for the appointment of a Board of Directors to manage such a Foundation.  

1983 – The Senate Foreign Relations Committee held hearings on the nominations of William Pickard, Patsy Blackshear, Charles Wells, Chester Crocker, and Frank Ruddy to the USADF Board of Directors. The Senate confirmed the nominations that same year, during which the USADF Board held its first meeting at the offices of the Inter-American Foundation (IAF) in Virginia, USA.  

1984 – USADF began to develop its funding program in earnest in 1984, instituting the Foundation's grants-making processes for sourcing, selecting , and supporting community-led enterprise growth projects and monitoring and evaluation. By September 1984, the USADF Board of Directors awarded grants to 11 grassroots organizations totaling $838,000. This first batch of USADF grants was issued in Botswana, Lesotho, Liberia, Mali, Niger, and Zambia.  

1985 – 1987 – USADF carried out its development model in 19 African countries, awarding over 100 grants totaling $10.3 million. By the end of 1987, USADF had developed accords or memorandums of understanding with nine African governments.  

1989 – Pastoralism was a major focus for USADF in the 1980s as a result of disastrous droughts in West Africa. In 1989, USADF hosted a Herders' Workshop, convening herders, farmers, and artisans from the Savannah and Sahelian zones in Ndutu, Tanzania, to foster learning and networks.  

1994 – In line with USADF's focus on promoting disability-inclusive development, the Foundation in 1994 brought together more than 60 persons with disabilities from 15 African countries in Kampala, Uganda. The attendees represented grassroots community groups and intermediary NGOs involved in horticulture, tailoring, furniture making, bookbinding, leadership and vocational training, and the reintegration of former psychiatric patients into communities. The meeting intended to promote and encourage the transitional process of persons with disabilities moving from a charity to an empowerment model.  

1996 – USADF re-activated its development activities in Rwanda in 1996 following the 1994 genocide there that claimed nearly a million lives. One of the early post-1996 grantees was Gahaya Links, a handicraft cooperative started by two Rwandan sisters who returned from being in Tanzania as refugees, with a group of Hutu and Tutsi women sitting around a circle, talking and making baskets together.  

1998 – USADF entered into its first host country government co-funding partnership in 1998 with the Republic of Botswana, through which USADF and the Government of Botswana provided matching funds for project grants that foster community-led economic development. Since this first co-funding government partnership, USADF has received over $34 million from African governments to implement community-enterprise programming in their countries, demonstrating a continued interest in partnering with USADF in support of peace and prosperity.  

2000 – On May 18, 2000, Congress enacted into law the African Growth and Opportunity Act (AGOA) as Public Law 106-200. The legislation significantly enhanced market access to the United States for sub-Saharan enterprises and organizations, including for USADF grantees that are increasingly export-ready and landing deals with major retailers such as Costco (cashews), Macy's (handicrafts), Target (shea butter cosmetics), and Whole Foods (textiles).   

2004 – President George W. Bush appointed Dr. Ephraim Batambuze and Jack Leslie to the USADF Board of Directors after the U.S. Senate confirmed their nominations. The two joined USADF's leadership as the Foundation implemented new strategic initiatives to expand trade and investment opportunities between Africa and the United States and to provide African communities with resources to prevent HIV/AIDS and mitigate its social and economic impact.   

2006 – Throughout the 2000s, USADF supported critical agriculture commodities, including paprika in Zimbabwe, red onions in Niger, vanilla in Uganda, sesame in Burkina Faso, shea in West Africa, and coffee across East Africa. USADF support of coffee cooperatives has facilitated several of them exporting premium coffee to the United States and Europe.  

2011 – USADF launched the Turkana Food Security Program in March 2011 with the strategic goal of boosting food security and reducing dependence on food aid in Turkana County, a highly marginalized, arid, and cattle raid-prone region of Kenya. USADF pledged $10 million in development grants and technical assistance; USADF met this goal, having awarded slightly more than USD $10 million to 53 agriculture and energy grantees in Turkana focused on mostly fishing, irrigated agriculture, and livestock. These projects have directly impacted more than 17,000 people (58% of whom were women) and indirectly benefited more than 88,000 people.  

2012 – In Somalia, where nearly 70 percent of youth are unemployed, USADF is filling a skills gap by providing vocational training and job placement for youth between the ages of 15 and 35. USADF provides funding to local Somali NGOs to train unemployed youth and work with local businesses to set up five-month training and apprenticeship programs for the youth. Since 2012, USADF funding has facilitated placement for 6,000 youth. Dahabshiil Bank has provided funding alongside USADF that has facilitated 200 placements. Many of the youth participating in the training reported that their income jumped from $50 a month to $300 a month. In 2020, USADF expanded youth training and apprenticeship to the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Lagos State in Nigeria, Senegal, South Sudan, and Uganda.  

2013 – The U.S. government's Power Africa initiative was launched in 2013, bringing together technical and legal experts, the private sector, and governments from around the world to work in partnership to create 60 million new energy connections in sub-Saharan Africa by 2030. Following this launch, USADF began awarding renewable energy grants to small and medium enterprises (SMEs) and African entrepreneurs and has since awarded more than $11 million to over 115 African off-grid energy enterprises to help combat insufficient access to energy across the continent. To date, USADF has leveraged partnership funds from All On, GE, and Nithio Holdings for this portfolio and held various funding challenges in this sector, including USADF's Women in Off-grid Energy Challenge, All On-USADF Off-grid Energy Challenge, and Sahel-Horn of Af