# Fähnrich

Fähnrich () is an officer candidate rank in the Austrian Bundesheer and German Bundeswehr.  The word  comes from an older German military title,  (flag bearer), and first became a distinct military rank in Germany on 1 January 1899.  However,  ranks are often incorrectly compared with the rank of ensign, which shares a similar etymology but is a full-fledged (albeit junior) commissioned officer rank.

In the German Landsknecht armies, recorded from ca. 1480, the equivalent rank of a Cornet existed. The cornet carried the troop standard, also known as a "cornet".

The rank also exists in a few other European military organizations, often with historical ties to the German system. Examples are the Netherlands, Denmark, Sweden, Norway, and Finland (see Fänrik). The French Army has a similar position called an Aspirant.

In the Finnish landforces and airforce,  () is the lowest commissioned officer rank, which is granted to the soldiers in the national service on the day they are released from their 347-day service. Finnish  are thus of equal rank to the German lieutenant (also a platoon leader).

Austria

Austrian Bundesheer 

, short , is the lowest commissioned officer rank in the Austrian Armed Forces.

Austria-Hungaria (until 1918) 

 was the lowest officer rank in the k.u.k. Common Army. In 1838 it was renamed to , from 1849 to  , since 1868 to Unterleutnant, and finally approximately from 1868 to . In 1908  was re-introduced as lowest cadet-officer rank in order to replace the 1869 rank designation . ,  respectively completed training and education on the less famous so-called k.u.k. . As the  was the highest NCO-rank, became  a separate rank-class. However, graduates from the much more famous  became the officer patent for .

In the k.u. Royal Hungarian Honvéd army  was the equivalent to the  rank. It accounted immediately to the officer corps.

Denmark
In 1609, Christian IV of Denmark created a permanent organization with regiments of the Royal Danish Army. A regiment would be assigned one , one , one , and two s.

Between 1951 and 1970,  and  were part of , which served as Warrant officers.

Finland

Germany

Bundeswehr 

A  of the Bundeswehr is a soldier who serves in the ranks, first as  (OR-5, comparable to the  junior non-commissioned officer rank ), then in subsequent grades:  (OR-6, equivalent to ), and  (OR-7 equivalent to ).

In the German Bundeswehr, an officer candidate () can reach the rank of  after 21 months of service. The German Navy equivalent is "Ensign at sea" ().

An officer candidate's career is indicated by the enlisted rank with a thin silver cord on the shoulder strap.

History

Imperial German Army

National People's Army 

Following the creation of the National People's Army, a  rank group was created.

Netherlands

Norway

In the Norwegian Armed Forces, the rank of  is the lowest ranking commissioned officer, with the NATO code of OF-1.

Sweden

See also
 Fähnrich zur See

References 

Sources
 

Military ranks of Austria
Military ranks of Germany