# Mortal Kombat 1

Mortal Kombat 1 is a 2023 fighting game developed by NetherRealm Studios and published by Warner Bros. Games. It is the twelfth main installment in the Mortal Kombat series, and serves as its second reboot after 2011's Mortal Kombat (2011). The game was released on Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 5, Windows, and Xbox Series X/S on September 19, 2023.

In addition to being a reboot, the game is also a sequel to 2019's Mortal Kombat 11, taking place in a new timeline directly created by Liu Kang in his ending of 11s Aftermath expansion. In this new timeline, Fire God Liu Kang assembles a clique of fighters to participate in the latest Mortal Kombat tournament set in Outworld, while coming into a conflict with an alliance of two individuals (the Shang Tsung and Quan Chi of Liu's timeline) trained by Titan Shang Tsung.

Mortal Kombat 1 received generally positive reviews from critics, except for the Nintendo Switch version, which was criticized for its graphics and technical issues.

Gameplay
Mortal Kombat 1 features a story mode, online multiplayer with rollback netcode, and offline gameplay. The game introduces a feature called Kameo Fighters, which provides assistance to the player during fights in a similar fashion to the tag assist fighters of the Towers of Time mode in Mortal Kombat 11 (2019). These characters are separate from the main roster and are chosen before each fight. There are two types of assists provided by each Kameo Fighter: Summons, which can be performed while the player remains in one place, and Ambushes, which can be performed regardless of what the player is doing. They can also be called to perform their own Fatalities and Brutalities. In addition, the chosen Kameo Fighter also affects how much health the players will have in a fight. 

Fatal Blows, first introduced in Mortal Kombat 11, returns with different functionality. These special moves can still be triggered when a player's health drops below 30% only, however in this game, they are performed as collaborative offensive moves between a player and a Kameo Fighter, with each delivering an attack in tandem. Additionally, the most significant attack performed during the Fatal Blow features the X-Ray effects seen in Mortal Kombat X (2015). Also returning is the Air Kombat combo system which was featured in both Mortal Kombat: Armageddon (2006) and the action spin-off Shaolin Monks (2005).

For single-player, the game features the return of the plot-driven Story Mode and the traditional form of Towers mode from the previous games, while introducing the addition of the seasonal Invasion mode, an online mode combining fighting mechanics with board game and role-playing game elements. The players are tasked to move around the board while completing various challenges on each space they move to, earning rewards such as skins, in-game currency, or concept art for completing the challenges. Each Invasion season lasts around six weeks and has its own board and theme. For multiplayer, the versus modes include Local mode to play a match on the same console, Online mode to play against opponents all over the world, and Tournament mode to host a tournament with a unified rule set for the matches.

Plot
After defeating Kronika and Shang Tsung, Fire God Liu Kang uses Kronika's Hourglass to recreate the universe before relinquishing control of it to Geras to become Earthrealm's protector. Over time, he forms a tenuous alliance with Outworld under the auspices of continuing the Mortal Kombat tournaments. In the present, a powerless Shang Tsung attempts to make a living in Outworld as a con man until he is approached by a mysterious individual named "Damashi", who reveals his potential to become a sorcerer and that unseen forces are working against him. Meanwhile, Liu Kang recruits farmers Kung Lao and Raiden, struggling actor Johnny Cage, and former Yakuza member Kenshi Takahashi to compete in the latest tournament, with Raiden eventually being chosen as Earthrealm's champion and winning the tournament.

After learning from Geras that Shang Tsung has regained his abilities and is serving as an advisor to Outworld's Empress Sindel, Liu Kang tasks Kenshi, Kung Lao, and Johnny with investigating Shang Tsung's activities. They travel to Outworld's wastelands, where they encounter Tarkatans, victims of the Tarkat virus, and witness Shang Tsung extracting bone marrow from the Tarkatans' leader Baraka. The Earthrealmers intervene, though Shang Tsung escapes to his laboratory. With Baraka's aid, the group locates the lab and stops Shang Tsung from seemingly infecting Outworld's crown princess, Mileena, with the Tarkat virus. However, Mileena attacks them, blinding Kenshi before Shang Tsung injects her with a serum to control her Tarkat symptoms. Her sister, Princess Kitana, and General Shao arrive to capture the Earthrealmers. Shang Tsung misleads them before convening with his ally, Quan Chi. The Earthrealmers are taken to the Flesh Pits, but escape with Reptile's help and encounter Ashrah, who reveals Quan Chi is building devices capable of stealing souls on a massive scale. Though Quan Chi uses several souls to create Ermac, the group defeats them and destroys one of the soul stealers before all except for Baraka return to Earthrealm to warn Liu Kang.

Liu Kang orders Lin Kuei warriors Sub-Zero, Scorpion, and Smoke to destroy the soul stealers and capture Shang Tsung, but Shang Tsung sways Sub-Zero to his side by promising him access to the undead Dragon Army. As Scorpion and Smoke escape, Geras, upon further investigation, informs Liu Kang that Damashi hails from a parallel timeline.

With Li Mei's help, Liu Kang returns to Outworld to provide Sindel and her daughters with evidence of the sorcerers' treachery and reveal his influence on the current timeline. Shao attempts to ambush the group but is defeated and captured. The Earthrealmers and Outworlders ally to destroy the remaining soul stealers. Ermac attacks them, but Mileena defeats him, allowing the soul of her father and Sindel's husband, Emperor Jerrod, to manifest and take control of Ermac's body. Upon confronting the sorcerers, they are joined by "Damashi", who is revealed as the previous timeline's Shang Tsung. He reveals further that while fighting Liu Kang for the Hourglass, they fractured time, creating a separate timeline where he defeated Kronika and Liu Kang and became a Titan. Intending to absorb Liu Kang's timeline, he betrays the sorcerers and summons warriors from his own. Liu Kang's group narrowly drives them off, though Sindel is fatally wounded and appoints Mileena her successor before dying, with Jerrod absorbing her soul.

Forming a temporary alliance with the sorcerers, Shang Tsung hypothesizes that there are more timelines. Geras adds that he had stored Liu Kang's Titan powers should the need for them arise. As the others leave to destroy the Dragon Army, Liu Kang regains his Titan powers and reunites with his friends from the previous timeline to recruit forces for the upcoming battle. Anticipating this, Titan Shang Tsung summons an army of their evil counterparts. Following a grueling battle, Liu Kang's group prevails, allowing him to erase Titan Shang Tsung and his timeline from existence. After returning everyone he recruited to their native timelines, Liu Kang returns to his own to congratulate his champions over dinner before departing to assist Scorpion and Smoke in founding the Shirai Ryu clan and preparing Earthrealm for future conflicts.

In a mid-credits scene, alternate timeline warriors led by Titan Havik observe the aftermath of Liu Kang and Titan Shang Tsung's battle. Feeling it ended too quickly, Titan Havik vows to start a new, longer battle.

Invasions
With the revelation that multiple timelines co-exist with each other, Liu Kang secretly keeps watch over several of them to defend his own.

Season of the Spectre
An alternate Scorpion named Hanzo Hasashi travels to multiple timelines to find one in which his wife Harumi is still alive and single so he can reunite with her and rebuild the Shirai Ryu. Following several failed attempts, he travels to Liu Kang's timeline and finds a living Harumi, who is married to her version of Scorpion. An infuriated Hanzo tries to destroy the timeline but is defeated. Liu Kang sends him to a timeline where he died and Harumi became Scorpion. The pair bond over their shared losses and join forces to fight her version of Quan Chi.

Characters

The base roster of Mortal Kombat 1 features 22 playable characters in the form of reimagined versions of past Mortal Kombat characters, including several who have not appeared since Mortal Kombat: Armageddon (2006). An additional character, Shang Tsung, was offered as a pre-order bonus. Six additional characters (guest characters are shown below in italics) for post-launch release via the "Kombat Pack" downloadable content, which also includes a skin for Johnny Cage featuring the likeness and voice of Jean-Claude