# Strictly positive measure

In mathematics, strict positivity is a concept in measure theory. Intuitively, a strictly positive measure is one that is "nowhere zero", or that is zero "only on points".

Definition

Let  be a Hausdorff topological space and let  be a -algebra on  that contains the topology  (so that every open set is a measurable set, and  is at least as fine as the Borel -algebra on ). Then a measure  on  is called strictly positive if every non-empty open subset of  has strictly positive measure.

More concisely,  is strictly positive if and only if for all  such that

Examples

 Counting measure on any set  (with any topology) is strictly positive.
 Dirac measure is usually not strictly positive unless the topology  is particularly "coarse" (contains "few" sets). For example,  on the real line  with its usual Borel topology and -algebra is not strictly positive; however, if  is equipped with the trivial topology  then  is strictly positive. This example illustrates the importance of the topology in determining strict positivity.
 Gaussian measure on Euclidean space  (with its Borel topology and -algebra) is strictly positive.
 Wiener measure on the space of continuous paths in  is a strictly positive measure — Wiener measure is an example of a Gaussian measure on an infinite-dimensional space.
 Lebesgue measure on  (with its Borel topology and -algebra) is strictly positive.
 The trivial measure is never strictly positive, regardless of the space  or the topology used, except when  is empty.

Properties

 If  and  are two measures on a measurable topological space  with  strictly positive and also absolutely continuous with respect to  then  is strictly positive as well. The proof is simple: let  be an arbitrary open set; since  is strictly positive,  by absolute continuity,  as well.
 Hence, strict positivity is an invariant with respect to equivalence of measures.

See also

  − a measure is strictly positive if and only if its support is the whole space.

References

Measures (measure theory)