# Binomial coefficient

In mathematics, the binomial coefficients are the positive integers that occur as coefficients in the binomial theorem. Commonly, a binomial coefficient is indexed by a pair of integers  and is written  It is the coefficient of the  term in the polynomial expansion of the binomial power ; this coefficient can be computed by the multiplicative formula

which using factorial notation can be compactly expressed as

For example, the fourth power of  is

and the binomial coefficient  is the coefficient of the  term.

Arranging the numbers  in successive rows for  gives a triangular array called Pascal's triangle, satisfying the recurrence relation

The binomial coefficients occur in many areas of mathematics, and especially in combinatorics. The symbol  is usually read as " choose " because there are  ways to choose an (unordered) subset of  elements from a fixed set of  elements. For example, there are  ways to choose 2 elements from  namely  and 

The binomial coefficients can be generalized to  for any complex number  and integer , and many of their properties continue to hold in this more general form.

History and notation
Andreas von Ettingshausen introduced the notation  in 1826, although the numbers were known centuries earlier (see Pascal's triangle). In about 1150, the Indian mathematician Bhaskaracharya gave an exposition of binomial coefficients in his book Līlāvatī.

Alternative notations include , , , , , and  in all of which the  stands for combinations or choices. Many calculators use variants of the  because they can represent it on a single-line display. In this form the binomial coefficients are easily compared to -permutations of , written as , etc.

Definition and interpretations 

For natural numbers (taken to include 0) n and k, the binomial coefficient  can be defined as the coefficient of the monomial Xk in the expansion of . The same coefficient also occurs (if ) in the binomial formula

(valid for any elements x, y of a commutative ring),
which explains the name "binomial coefficient".

Another occurrence of this number is in combinatorics, where it gives the number of ways, disregarding order, that k objects can be chosen from among n objects; more formally, the number of k-element subsets (or k-combinations) of an n-element set. This number can be seen as equal to the one of the first definition, independently of any of the formulas below to compute it: if in each of the n factors of the power  one temporarily labels the term X with an index i (running from 1 to n), then each subset of k indices gives after expansion a contribution Xk, and the coefficient of that monomial in the result will be the number of such subsets. This shows in particular that  is a natural number for any natural numbers n and k. There are many other combinatorial interpretations of binomial coefficients (counting problems for which the answer is given by a binomial coefficient expression), for instance the number of words formed of n bits (digits 0 or 1) whose sum is k is given by , while the number of ways to write  where every ai is a nonnegative integer is given by . Most of these interpretations can be shown to be equivalent to counting k-combinations.

Computing the value of binomial coefficients 

Several methods exist to compute the value of  without actually expanding a binomial power or counting k-combinations.

Recursive formula 
One method uses the recursive, purely additive formula
 for all integers  such that 

with boundary values
 for all integers 

The formula follows from considering the set  and counting separately (a) the k-element groupings that include a particular set element, say "i", in every group (since "i" is already chosen to fill one spot in every group, we need only choose  from the remaining ) and (b) all the k-groupings that don't include "i"; this enumerates all the possible k-combinations of n elements. It also follows from tracing the contributions to Xk in . As there is zero  or  in , one might extend the definition beyond the above boundaries to include  when either  or . This recursive formula then allows the construction of Pascal's triangle, surrounded by white spaces where the zeros, or the trivial coefficients, would be.

Multiplicative formula 
A more efficient method to compute individual binomial coefficients is given by the formula

where the numerator of the first fraction  is expressed as a falling factorial power.
This formula is easiest to understand for the combinatorial interpretation of binomial coefficients.
The numerator gives the number of ways to select a sequence of k distinct objects, retaining the order of selection, from a set of n objects. The denominator counts the number of distinct sequences that define the same k-combination when order is disregarded.

Due to the symmetry of the binomial coefficient with regard to k and , calculation may be optimised by setting the upper limit of the product above to the smaller of k and .

Factorial formula 
Finally, though computationally unsuitable, there is the compact form, often used in proofs and derivations, which makes repeated use of the familiar factorial function:

where n! denotes the factorial of n. This formula follows from the multiplicative formula above by multiplying numerator and denominator by ; as a consequence it involves many factors common to numerator and denominator. It is less practical for explicit computation (in the case that k is small and n is large) unless common factors are first cancelled (in particular since factorial values grow very rapidly). The formula does exhibit a symmetry that is less evident from the multiplicative formula (though it is from the definitions)

which leads to a more efficient multiplicative computational routine. Using the falling factorial notation,

Generalization and connection to the binomial series 

The multiplicative formula allows the definition of binomial coefficients to be extended by replacing n by an arbitrary number α (negative, real, complex) or even an element of any commutative ring in which all positive integers are invertible:

With this definition one has a generalization of the binomial formula (with one of the variables set to 1), which justifies still calling the  binomial coefficients:

This formula is valid for all complex numbers α and X with |X| < 1. It can also be interpreted as an identity of formal power series in X, where it actually can serve as definition of arbitrary powers of power series with constant coefficient equal to 1; the point is that with this definition all identities hold that one expects for exponentiation, notably

If α is a nonnegative integer n, then all terms with  are zero, and the infinite series becomes a finite sum, thereby recovering the binomial formula. However, for other values of α, including negative integers and rational numbers, the series is really infinite.

Pascal's triangle 

Pascal's rule is the important recurrence relation

which can be used to prove by mathematical induction that  is a natural number for all integer n ≥ 0 and all integer k, a fact that is not immediately obvious from formula (1). To the left and right of Pascal's triangle, the entries (shown as blanks) are all zero.

Pascal's rule also gives rise to Pascal's triangle:
 

Row number  contains the numbers  for . It is constructed by first placing 1s in the outermost positions, and then filling each inner position with the sum of the two numbers directly above. This method allows the quick calculation of binomial coefficients without the need for fractions or multiplications. For instance, by looking at row number 5 of the triangle, one can quickly read off that

Combinatorics and statistics 
Binomial coefficients are of importance in combinatorics, because they provide ready formulas for certain frequent counting problems:
 There are  ways to choose k elements from a set of n elements. See Combination.
 There are  ways to choose k elements from a set of n elements if repetitions are allowed. See Multiset.
 There are  strings containing k ones and n zeros.
 There are  strings consisting of k ones and n zeros such that no two ones are adjacent.
 The Catalan numbers are 
 The binomial distribution in statistics is

Binomial coefficients as polynomials 
For any nonnegative integer k, the expression  can be simplified and defined as a polynomial divided by :

this presents a polynomial in t with rational coefficients.

As such, it can be evaluated at any real or complex number t to define binomial coefficients with such first arguments. These "generalized binomial coefficients" appear in Newton's generalized binomial theorem.

For each k, the polynomial  can be characterized as the unique degree k polynomial  satisfying  and .

Its coefficients are expressible in terms of Stirling numbers of the first kind:

The derivative of  can be calculated by logarithmic differentiation:

This can cause a problem when evaluated at integers from  to , but