# MTV (Latin American TV channel)

MTV is a Latin American pay television network that was launched on 1 October 1993 as the Hispanic American version of MTV. It is owned by Paramount Networks Americas, a subsidiary of Paramount Global.

The channel broadcasts music videos as well as reality shows, TV series and movies, which may be directly or indirectly related to music, aimed at the youth. Its schedule is focused on certain musical genres, mainly pop, rock mix, reggaeton (since 2005), hip hop, trap, electronic music, and K-pop (since 2018). Each of these categories includes music in English, Spanish and Korean.

MTV Latin America is headquartered in Miami Beach covering the region, centered in Mexico City, Mexico and Buenos Aires, Argentina.

The channel has also produced its own versions of MTV reality shows like Room Raiders or Dismissed, but most of the time curse words are not censored in Latin American countries (specially during the watershed time). The first video broadcast by the network was We are sudamerican rockers by Chilean band Los Prisioneros.

History

A few important events in the late 1980s led to the creation of MTV Latin America. Firstly, the program "MTV International" was created in 1988 and led by Daisy Fuentes. This weekly program was broadcast through Latin American and American channels and presented music videos from both regions. A second catalyst was the rise of the "Spanish Rock fever", which included artists such as Argentine rockers Miguel Mateos and Soda Stereo. Lastly, during these years the first-ever Spanish rock concert in the US was put on by Miguel Mateos, which created excitement amongst Latino communities in the United States.

With the growing popularity of Latino artists, channel executives began to take notice and realized the increasing quality and popularity of music sung in Spanish. After considering the success of other international MTV channels, such as MTV Europe and MTV Brasil, MTV Networks launched "MTV in Spanish" in October 1993. The channel had one signal to broadcast to all of Latin America. All programs were recorded and produced in Miami, FL where the studios were located. Daisy Fuentes became one of the first VJs for the channel.

Beto González from Guatemala was in charge of MTV media and ads from 1994 from 1999, later succeeded by Gus Rodríguez from México.

As the channel began to experience growing popularity in the early part of 1995, new shows were added to the program. For the first time, shows unrelated to music were broadcast, such as Beavis and Butthead. MTV News was added, a segment dedicated to news on celebrities, film, politics and social issues, usually combining subjective and objective commentary. Lastly, in this same year the show Conexion was launched, the most popular show in the channel's history, which has remained on air for a record length of time and boasts the largest audience of any program in the history of the channel.

Given the channel's social and economic growth, in August 1996 "MTV Latin America" was divided into two regional signals, "North", covering Mexico, Central America, Colombia and Venezuela, and "South", covering Argentina and the rest of the region. This division was created in order to cater programming more closely to distinct audiences. As a result, in 1996 MTV became the number one music channel in Latin America. The channel also became one of the first US television brands to develop a website for Latin America audiences with the launch MTVLA.com in partnership with the Miami-based company Internet Marketing Consultants.

However, during 1999 the channel began experiencing problems. The musical aspect of "MTV Latin America" was disorganized and the channel was having trouble catering to distinct regional tastes. Executives decided to segment audiences by dividing the channel into two signals: "MTV Mexico" and "MTV Argentina", with studios and regional offices located in capital cities of each country.

During this time, the channel began to show American MTV programs subtitled in Spanish. As well, in the year 2000, MTV created a new signal directed towards Chile, known as "MTV Southwest", which repeated programming from MTV Mexico but adjusted to Chilean time. While at first MTV thought about repeating MTV Argentina’s programming for the Chilean signal because of the proximity of the countries, it was decided that considering cultural traits and the difference in accents between Chilean and Argentine Spanish, it would be more suitable to adapt Mexican programming for the Chilean signal. However, late 2002, MTV Southwest was cancelled due to the low number of viewers changing to "MTV Central" following in Chile. In 2004, it closed "MTV Central" due to the launch of VH1 Latin America. In 2005, it returned "MTV Central" directed towards Colombia.

Since 2009, MTV has started to lose hours of music videos in the programming being replaced by more reality shows, this change is still in "MTV North". In february 2018, "MTV South" it bases most of its programming on music videos, up to 18 hours daily, leaving reality shows that are broadcast on the other feed only airing on primetime. In 2021, it closed "MTV Central" due to the arrival of Paramount+. Since then, two signals have been operating in Latin America: "MTV North", covering Mexico, Colombia, Peru, Ecuador, Bolivia and Central American and Caribbean countries, and "MTV South", covering Argentina, Chile, Venezuela, Paraguay and Uruguay. On June 26, 2023, both feeds were merged into a single pan-regional feed centered in Mexico City, in addition, music on "MTV South" was reduced from 17 to 7 hours.

Programming

On Air Music Shows
 Latino Fuerte
 MTV ATR: A Todo Ritmo
 Insomnio MTV
 Tu Mix de Hoy
 Arriba MTV
 Playlist
 MTV World Stage
 MTV News

On Air Series
 Acapulco Shore
 Amazingness
 Are You The One?
 Are You The One? El Match Perfecto (Latin American Version)
 Are You The One? Brasil 
 Catfish: The TV Show
 Catfish México
 Clickbait with Daniel Bautista (North Feed)
 Clickbait with Lucas Garofalo (South/DirecTV Feed)
 Ex On The Beach
 Ex On The Beach: Body SOS
 Ex On The Beach: Brasil
 Geordie Shore
 Jersey Shore: Family Vacation
 Just Tattoo of Us
 La familia del barrio
 MTV Acaplay
 MTV Cannigia Libre
 Ridiculousness
 Teen Mom OG
 The Challenge: Vendettas
 The Charlotte Show
 Siesta Key
 Super Shore
 Drag Race México
 Vidiots

Special Events
 MTV Video Music Awards
 MTV Europe Music Awards
 MTV MIAW Awards
 MTV Movie & TV Awards
 MTV Unplugged

Feeds
MTV Latin America was divided North and South feeds, from August 1996 to June 26, 2023 when both feeds merged into one single Panregional feed centered in Mexico City, broadcasting in Mexico, Argentina, Colombia, Chile, Venezuela, Peru, Ecuador, Bolivia, Paraguay, Uruguay, Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua, and Panama.

Social issues and MTV
In addition to broadcasting core MTV programs, MTV Latin America has also produced other non-music-related programs that address social and cultural issues that impact Latin American youth. These programs address issues such as politics, sexually transmitted infections, the environment and sexuality. Some of these shows include:

 Speak out: We are 30 million – Mexican Elections of 2006 (a series promoting the participation of youth in the Presidential elections, and included interviews with each of the candidates)
 Xpress (an award-winning documentary on the killing of women in Juarez City, Chihuahua, Mexico)
 Staying Alive (a co-production with CNN covering the worldwide HIV/AIDS epidemic)

Other projects
In 2002, MTV Networks announced the first Latin American MTV Video Music Awards.  For the first three years, the awards were held in Miami. In 2006 and 2007 they were held in Mexico City. In 2008, the Awards were moved to Guadalajara, Mexico. In 2009, the show took place in various cities, including Bogotá, Buenos Aires, Mexico City and Los Angeles. In 2013, was replaced by MTV Millennial Awards.

Audience demographics
The majority of viewers are between the ages of 14 and 34. The average age of viewers is 18 years, with the majority of the audience being older. About 76% of viewers belong to the middle to upper class. As well, the channel notes a large number of viewers are university students. Moreover, according to a study conducted by TGI Latina in 2004, MTV Latin America’s audience is 57% male and 43% female.

Public reception
MTV Latin America, like other MTV channels around the world, has been one of the first television channels to receive criticisms, largely from their own viewers. While many criticisms apply to MTV as a whole, some criticisms apply specifically to MTV Latin America. One reason for these criticisms is that certain videos and reality shows on MTV Latin America are not censored.

One of the main criticisms against MTV Latin America is that it is merely a commercial channel, whose broadcasting of videos is based on only economic interests and not