# Johnstown Traction Company

Johnstown Traction Company (JTC) was a public transit system in Johnstown, Pennsylvania, United States. For most of its existence it was primarily a street-railway system, but in later years also operated rubber-tired vehicles.  JTC operated trolley (tram) service in Johnstown from February 23, 1910 to June 11, 1960.  Johnstown was one of the last small cities to abandon trolley service in the United States. It was also the smallest city to acquire a fleet of PCC cars and acquired trackless trolleys at a late date compared to larger transit properties.  Many of the 1920s-era cars went directly to museums; however, none of the 17 PCC streetcars were saved. Efforts to sell the 16 then-surviving PCC cars intact were unsuccessful, and in 1962 they were scrapped, but many of their components were salvaged and sold to the Brussels, Belgium tram system, reused in the last series of single PCC trams (), which ran from 1970 until February 2010.

JTC's system also included electric trolley buses, the first route of which was opened on November 20, 1951.  Trolley bus service continued until 1967, the last day of electric service being November 11, 1967.  The transit system then used only motor buses, but retained the name Johnstown Traction Company (in which "traction" is a reference to electric vehicle propulsion).  In 1976, the private JTC would become the CamTran public transit system.

Surviving JTC cars

 350 Pennsylvania Trolley Museum
 351 Market Street Railway (San Francisco)
 311, 355 Rockhill Trolley Museum
 356, 357 Shore Line Trolley Museum
 358 originally Stone Mountain, Georgia, then Trolley Museum of New York
 362 Johnstown Area Heritage Association

See also
 Streetcars in Kenosha, Wisconsin – An ex-Toronto PCC car, in service on a heritage streetcar system here, wears the JTC paint scheme in tribute to Johnstown's streetcar system, which used similar PCC cars

References

External links
Johnstown Traction Company
Johnstown Traction streetcar photos on Dave's Rail Pix
Johnstown Traction trolleybus photos on Tom's Trackless Trolley Pictures
YouTube amateur video

History of Johnstown, Pennsylvania
Streetcars in Pennsylvania
Trolleybus transport in the United States
Interurban railways in Pennsylvania
Defunct Pennsylvania railroads
Transportation in Johnstown, Pennsylvania
Defunct public transport operators in the United States
Tram, urban railway and trolley companies