# Statistical distance

In statistics, probability theory, and information theory, a statistical distance quantifies the distance between two statistical objects, which can be two random variables, or two probability distributions or samples, or the distance can be between an individual sample point and a population or a wider sample of points.

A distance between populations can be interpreted as measuring the distance between two probability distributions and hence they are essentially measures of distances between probability measures. Where statistical distance measures relate to the differences between random variables, these may have statistical dependence, and hence these distances are not directly related to measures of distances between probability measures.  Again, a measure of distance between random variables may relate to the extent of dependence between them, rather than to their individual values.

Many statistical distance measures are not metrics, and some are not symmetric. Some types of distance measures, which generalize squared distance, are referred to as (statistical) divergences.

Terminology
Many terms are used to refer to various notions of distance; these are often confusingly similar, and may be used inconsistently between authors and over time, either loosely or with precise technical meaning. In addition to "distance", similar terms include deviance, deviation, discrepancy, discrimination, and divergence, as well as others such as contrast function and metric. Terms from information theory include cross entropy, relative entropy, discrimination information, and information gain.

Distances as metrics

Metrics
A metric on a set X is a function (called the distance function or simply distance) d : X × X → R+
(where R+ is the set of non-negative real numbers). For all x, y, z in X, this function is required to satisfy the following conditions:

 d(x, y) ≥ 0     (non-negativity)
 d(x, y) = 0   if and only if   x = y     (identity of indiscernibles. Note that condition 1 and 2 together produce positive definiteness)
 d(x, y) = d(y, x)      (symmetry)
 d(x, z) ≤ d(x, y) + d(y, z)      (subadditivity / triangle inequality).

Generalized metrics
Many statistical distances are not metrics, because they lack one or more properties of proper metrics. For example, pseudometrics violate property (2), identity of indiscernibles; quasimetrics violate property (3), symmetry; and semimetrics violate property (4), the triangle inequality. Statistical distances that satisfy (1) and (2) are referred to as divergences.

Statistically close
The  variation distance of two distributions  and  over a finite domain , (often referred to as statistical difference
or statistical distance  in cryptography) is defined as 

.

We say that two probability ensembles  and  are statistically close if  is a negligible function in .

Examples

Metrics
 Total variation distance (sometimes just called "the" statistical distance)
 Hellinger distance
 Lévy–Prokhorov metric
 Wasserstein metric: also known as the Kantorovich metric, or earth mover's distance
 Mahalanobis distance
 Amari distance
 Integral probability metrics generalize several metrics or pseudometrics on distributions

Divergences
 Kullback–Leibler divergence
 Rényi divergence
 Jensen–Shannon divergence
 Bhattacharyya distance (despite its name it is not a distance, as it violates the triangle inequality)
 f-divergence: generalizes several distances and divergences
 Discriminability index, specifically the Bayes discriminability index, is a positive-definite symmetric measure of the overlap of two distributions.

See also 
Probabilistic metric space
Randomness extractor
Similarity measure
Zero-knowledge proof

Notes

External links
Distance and Similarity Measures (Wolfram Alpha)

References
Dodge, Y. (2003) Oxford Dictionary of Statistical Terms, OUP.