# Chromyl chloride

Chromyl chloride is an inorganic compound with the formula CrO2Cl2. It is a reddish brown compound that is a volatile liquid at room temperature, which is unusual for transition metal compounds.

Preparation
Chromyl chloride can be prepared by the reaction of potassium chromate or potassium dichromate with hydrogen chloride in the presence of sulfuric acid, followed by distillation.

K2Cr2O7 + 6 HCl  → 2 CrO2Cl2 + 2 KCl + 3 H2O
The sulfuric acid serves as the dehydration agent. It can also be prepared directly by exposing chromium trioxide to anhydrous hydrogen chloride gas.

CrO3 + 2 HCl ⇌ CrO2Cl2 + H2O

The method used to prepare chromyl chloride is the basis for a qualitative test for chloride: a sample suspected of containing chloride is heated with a mixture of potassium dichromate and concentrated sulfuric acid. If chloride is present, chromyl chloride forms as evidenced by red fumes of CrO2Cl2. Analogous compounds are not formed with fluorides, bromides, iodides and cyanides.

Usage

Test for the presence of chlorides 

The chromyl chloride test involves heating a sample suspected to contain chlorides with potassium dichromate and concentrated sulfuric acid. If a chloride is present, chromyl chloride forms, its presence being indicated by the formation of red smoke. Otherwise, no red smoke will obviously appear. No similar compound is formed in the presence of fluoride, bromide, iodide, or cyanide, making this test specific to chlorides.

Reagent for oxidation of alkenes
Chromyl chloride oxidizes internal alkenes to alpha-chloroketones or related derivatives. It will also attack benzylic methyl groups to give aldehydes via the Étard reaction. Dichloromethane is a suitable solvent for these reactions.

Others 

CrO2Cl2 can also be used to test for the absence of nitrate ions.

Safety considerations

Chromyl chloride is severely corrosive and easily burns the skin and eyes.

References

External links
 CDC - NIOSH Pocket Guide to Chemical Hazards - Chromyl Chloride

Chromium(VI) compounds
Chromium–halogen compounds
Oxychlorides
Oxidizing agents
Carcinogens
Chromium–oxygen compounds