# Geopost

Geopost (formerly DPDgroup) is an international parcel delivery service for sorter compatible parcels based in Issy les Moulineaux, France. Until 2015 DPD stood for Dynamic Parcel Distribution. Its brands are DPD, Colissimo, Chronopost, Seur and BRT. The company is based in France and operates mainly in the express road-based market.

Geopost services are available in Europe, Asia, South Africa, India, Brazil and several other countries in the world, either directly or through partnerships.

Geopost is owned by La Poste, the international delivery network operated by the French state-owned postal service.

In 2020, Geopost delivered 1.9 billion parcels worldwide and achieved revenues of €11 billion.

History

Le Groupe La Poste 

In the 1980s, Le Groupe La Poste originated its express transport activities with the creation of Chronopost in 1985.

In 1999, Le Groupe La Poste created GeoPost to consolidate its express transport and parcel delivery businesses. In the 2000s, GeoPost carried out a series of acquisitions concerning transport operators in various European markets.

GeoPost bought the UK-based Parceline and Ireland's Interlink parcel service in November 2000, for around $277 million. In 2008 it was rebranded as Dynamic Parcel Distribution.

In 2001, GeoPost became the main shareholder of DPD, a company created in 1977 in Aschaffenburg, West Germany (Deutscher Paketdienst until January 2008, then Dynamic Parcel Distribution). In the same year, GeoPost acquired the British company Parceline which was rebranded DPD in March 2008.

GeoPost then made successive acquisitions:
 In 2004, 40% of Seur Internacional, the number 1 private operator in Spain.
 In 2006, Exapaq (now DPD France). 
 In 2009, Pickup Services, a company specialised in managing pick-up and drop-off points.
 In 2011, 75% of DPD Laser in South Africa and 35% of Lenton in Hong Kong.
 In 2013, 40% of DTDC, the second largest parcel delivery network in India.
 In 2014, Siódemka, the leading operator in the Polish market.

2015: creation of DPDgroup 
In 2015, GeoPost combined its DPD, Chronopost and Seur brands under one umbrella: DPDgroup.

On this occasion, Exapaq became DPD France and the logo of Chronopost was modified to show it was part of DPDgroup.

In 2016, DPDgroup increased its equity investments within the DPD network – including taking 100% control of DPD in Germany – and acquired a 60% stake in JadLog (a Brazilian company).

In 2017, DPDgroup increased its stake in the Seur network to 87%, completed the acquisition of Stuart (a French company) and took a 37.5% stake in BRT (an Italian company).

In 2018, the stake in the SEUR network was increased to 94% and DPDgroup acquired a minority stake in Ninja Van, a specialist in last-mile services in Southeast Asia.

In 2019, DPDgroup became the major shareholder in BRT by increasing its share in the capital to 85%, acquired a majority stake in Lenton, the Asian-based cross-border service provider and entered into an agreement with the logistics company in the Czech Republic and Slovakia Geis Parcel.

In 2020, DPDgroup increased its stake to 98% in Jadlog in Brazil.

Activities

Types of services 
DPDgroup operates in the light-weight parcel delivery market (less than 31.5 kg), which is typically referred to as the “CEP” market (courier, express and parcel).

The CEP market differs from courier services (that do not require a sorting centre) and from freight (that requires several people or equipment to handle the parcels).

DPDgroup operates in the different sub-segments of the CEP market, which are defined according to the following criteria: 
 delivery time: DPDgroup operates in the standard or deferred parcel segment (without guaranteed delivery times, which ranges from 24 to 72 hours depending on the destination) and in the express parcel segment (guaranteed next-day delivery in the domestic market, and next-day to two-day delivery for international)
 geographic coverage: DPDgroup is specialised in domestic deliveries in the markets in which it is present (nationwide delivery), and in intra-European deliveries. It is also expanding in the intercontinental market.
 nature of the sender and recipient: DPDgroup covers parcel flows between businesses (BtoB), between consumers (CtoC), from business to consumer (BtoC) and from consumer to business (CtoB)

International presence 
DPDgroup mainly operates in Europe, with a direct presence in 24 countries:
 under the DPD brand (in Austria, Belarus, Belgium, Croatia, Estonia, France, Kazakhstan, Portugal, Germany, Hungary, Ireland, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Poland, Slovakia, Slovenia, Switzerland, the Czech Republic, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom, Romania)
 under the Chronopost brand (in France)
 under the Seur brand (in Spain) 
 under the BRT brand (Italy) where an international heavy shipments service is also offered 

The company also operates through stakes in companies (especially Speedy in Bulgaria) or commercial partnerships in other European countries (especially with Nova Poshta in Ukraine and with PostNord in the Nordic countries).

Outside of Europe, DPDgroup operates:

 in Kazakhstan and Russia (under DPD brand)
 in Brazil (98% in Jadlog)
 in India (43% in DTDC)
 in Turkey (25% in Yurtiçi Kargo)
 in South-East Asia (36.6% in Ninja Van) and in China (65% in Lenton)
 in Morocco, Burkina Faso and Mauritius (under the Chronopost brand)
 in Egypt (20% in Bosta)
 in South Africa (under DPD Laser)

Organization

Management 
Since the beginning of 2022, the company has been chaired by CEO Yves Delmas, who is also Executive Vice-president of Le Groupe La Poste.

Metrics

Financial data 
 Revenues: €11 billion (2020, +42% compared to 2019)
 Operating profit: €800 million (2020)

Operational data 
 International: 83% of revenues from outside France (2020)
 BtoC: 55% of the volume (2020)
 BtoB: 45% of the volume (2020)
 Number of parcels delivered worldwide: 1.9 billion (2020)
 13.9 million parcels handled worldwide on peak day (30 November 2020)

Human resources data 
 Staff: 48,000 employees (in full-time equivalent), including 41,000 out of France (in 2020).

Strategy
DPDgroup's strategy is to develop its business in several lines:
 international market, through external growth operations, stakes in companies or commercial partnerships
 BtoC market, support e-commerce and develop innovative last-mile solutions: interactive delivery (Predict service), delivery on Saturday (Germany) and Sunday (United Kingdom, Spain and France), delivery by appointment, delivery in parcel shops and lockers with more than 58,000 Pickup points worldwide, or delivery by drone. To do so, DPDgroup set up in April 2019 a hub in Eindhoven (Netherlands), the largest sorting centre in Europe.
 new market segments such as e-commerce food delivery (e.g. Chronopost's Chronofresh service or “Seur Frio” in Spain) or same-day delivery (Spain, Portugal, France, United Kingdom, Hungary, Poland, Estonia, Lithuania, Latvia, Belgium and Luxembourg) or even delivery within two hours (Germany, Spain). In 2017, DPDgroup increased its investment in the urgent courier delivery market with the 100% acquisition of Stuart, a French company that developed a last-mile delivery technology platform for merchants and e-merchants willing to deliver their end-consignees more quickly and accurately. Finally, DPDgroup has started to position itself in the controlled temperature delivery market (transport of sensitive products in the healthcare, pharmaceutical and environmental sectors). The company acquired stakes in Biocair in 2012, BioLogistic (specialised in express delivery for laboratories) in 2016, acquired the Groupe ALP companies in France in 2017 via Chronopost, and finally acquired in 2019 Tipsa in Spain, specialised in the express transport of parcels.

Corporate social responsibility 
In 2012, DPDgroup committed itself to carbon-neutral deliveries.  emissions are gradually being reduced and offset, through support for renewable energy projects in India and Brazil. In 2019, DPDgroup reduced its  emissions generated by road transport by 14% per parcel compared to 2013.

Offset of the remaining transport emissions is done by purchasing carbon credits. DPDgroup's investment represents more than 1% of the global voluntary carbon offset market in 2019.

For inner-city deliveries, DPDgroup has implemented smart urban delivery initiatives. Since October 2019, Chronopost France has been operating 100% green deliveries in Paris, thanks to low-emission vehicles and urban depots. In autumn 2018, DPD UK's first urban depot opened in London and now 700 electric vehicles are deployed in the United Kingdom, to form the largest UK green livery. The company's green fleet and urban depots are in line with London's Ultra Low Emission Zone standards. Deliveries by alternative vehicles are also operated in Dublin, Hamburg, Madrid, Tallinn and Warsaw.

In February 2018, DPD faced widespread criticism in the UK due