# List of DC Universe locations

This page lists the locations in the DC Universe, the shared universe setting of DC Comics.

Sites

 the Arrowcave – The former base of operations of the Green Arrow and Speedy.
 Avernus Cemetery – A burial ground in Central City for the enemies of the Flash known as the Rogues; it is in a hidden location.
 the Batcave – The headquarters of Batman. Located directly beneath Wayne Manor.
 Burnside – A borough of Gotham City that is connected to Gotham by the Burnside Bridge. Burnside Heights is the trendy neighborhood in Burnside where The New 52 version of Batgirl (Barbara Gordon) lives and incorporated into Batman 89 as the birthplace of Drake Winston and Harvey Dent.
 the Casanova Club – A nightclub owned by Alex Logue in Newcastle, England. It was there that a demon was summoned and John Constantine failed to save a young girl who was taken to Hell. 
 Crime Alley – The most dangerous area of Gotham City, where Thomas and Martha Wayne were killed by Joe Chill during a mugging.
 the Daily Planet Building – The home office of the Daily Planet, Metropolis' main newspaper.
 Danny the Street – A sentient street and a member of the Doom Patrol.
 the Flash Museum – A memorial to the Flash (Barry Allen). Located in Central City.
 the Fortress of Solitude – An Arctic fortress used by Superman as a secret base. Located near the North Pole.
 the Hall of Doom – The home base of the Legion of Doom.
 the Hall of Justice – The one-time home base of the Justice League. A version of this is the headquarters of the Justice League in the animated series Super Friends. Another version of this appears in both Justice League Unlimited, and Young Justice, where the Hall appears as the headquarters of the Justice League to the public eye.
 the House of Mystery – The extradimensional structure presided over by Cain.
 the House of Secrets – The extradimensional structure presided over by Abel. A version of this is also the headquarters of the Secret Six.
 the Reichuss Mansion – A mobile haunted house that served as the House of Secrets in the 1990s Vertigo series of that name.
 the Iceberg Lounge – A nightclub and base of operations for the Penguin. Located in Gotham City. The club is featured in Gotham, The Lego Batman Movie, and The Batman. 
 Justice Society Headquarters – Current version built on the foundation of the former brownstone headquarters and museum. The former headquarters in Gotham City, the latter in Manhattan. Sometimes called Dodds Mansion.
 the LexCorp Towers complex – The former headquarters of Lex Luthor. Located in Metropolis.
 Lux – The bar/nightclub based in Los Angeles owned by Lucifer Morningstar and his mistress Mazikeen.
 the Netherworld – A fictional area of the city of Chicago.
 the Oblivion Bar – An extradimensional bar used as a gathering place/hangout for magic users, as well as the headquarters for the Shadowpact.
 Project Cadmus – An experimental genetics lab. Located in Metropolis. The Young Justice animated series has it located in Washington, D.C.
 the Sanctum of Doctor Fate – Located in Salem, Massachusetts.
 the Secret Sanctuary – The original headquarters of the Justice League of America and briefly headquarters of the Doom Patrol. Located in Happy Harbor, Rhode Island.
 Sherwood Florist – Originally in Seattle and now in Star City, the business operated by Black Canary.
 Suicide Slum – A dangerous part of Metropolis.
 Titans Tower – The headquarters of the Teen Titans, originally located in New York City. Currently located in San Francisco.
 the Underworld – A place in Metropolis's sewers which is rejected by society and where the Warworlders took control.
 Valhalla Cemetery – A burial ground located in Metropolis for superheroes who have died in the line of duty; it is meant to be a sacred resting place for superheroes.
 Wayne Manor – The ancestral home of Bruce Wayne. Located outside Gotham City.
 Wayne Tower – The location of the main offices of Wayne Enterprises. It is located in downtown Gotham City.

Correctional facilities
 Arkham Asylum – An asylum used to house criminally insane convicts in Gotham City. 
 Belle Reve – A high security metahuman prison located in St. Roch, Louisiana and the headquarters of the Suicide Squad. In Smallville, Belle Reve Sanitarium is a prison for "meteor freaks" (metahumans), and the mentally ill located near Kansas. Belle Reve Special Security Barracks appears in the DC Extended Universe, as the location where Lex Luthor was sent at the end of Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice  and in Suicide Squad where it is revealed to be a Black Site where the Suicide Squad is recruited. In The Suicide Squad the location has been renamed Belle Reve Correctional Center (and is also referred to in some paperwork as Belle Reve Penitentiary), and is implied to be under the authority of both A.R.G.U.S and US Department of Corrections (a fictional version of the US Bureau of Prisons). 
 Blackgate Penitentiary – Located near Gotham City and also called Blackgate Prison, it is a prison known to house mostly non-metahuman criminals in Gotham City like Rupert Thorne, Carmine Falcone, The Penguin, Arnold Wesker/Ventriloquist, and Victor Zsasz. A version of Blackgate prison appears in The Dark Knight Rises as the new home for criminals under the "Dent Act" but was broken into by the terrorist Bane and his army. It also appears in several episodes of Gotham.
 Gotham State Penitentiary – A prison located in the Sommerset neighborhood, which is 12 miles from Arkham Asylum. It housed inmates like the Penguin, Catman, Deadshot, Tony Zucco, Mortimer Kadavar and the Cavalier, but shortly after Crisis on Infinite Earths, it was the site of a breakout by Ra's al Ghul. It appears in several episodes of Batman.
 Iron Heights Penitentiary – A high security prison devised for many of the foes of either version of the Flash. Located near Keystone City.
 Peña Duro – Also called Hard Rock in English, it is the former prison of the villain Bane that is located in Santa Prisca.  Alluded to in the final season of Gotham, where Bane aka Edmund Dorrance was held prisoner but rescued by Nyssa al Ghul.
 Rock Falls Penitentiary – A prison in Rock Falls, Iowa where Dr. Sivana is imprisoned in after the events of Shazam!.
 Ravenscar Secure Facility – A mental asylum in Yorkshire that John Constantine was committed to after the Newcastle Incident.
 Slabside Island – Also called the Slab and Slabside Penitentiary, it is a high security metahuman prison. Originally in New Jersey, it was later transported to Antarctica after what happened in the Joker's "Last Laugh" riot. Shilo Norman was the original warden of Slabside Penitentiary. A version of it appears in Arrow called Slabside Maximum Security Prison where Oliver Queen is sent to for crimes as the Green Arrow.
 Stryker's Island – A prominent penitentiary in Metropolis specifically New Troy's West River. It's featured in DC Animated Universe media such as Superman: The Animated Series, Justice League Unlimited, Justice League: Crisis on Two Earths, and All Star Superman. Stryker's is also featured in Lego DC Super Villains as a main hub and in the climax in Batman V Superman: Dawn of Justice as an abandoned island between Gotham City and Metropolis.

Industrial sites

 Ace Chemicals – A chemical plant in Gotham City where the Joker supposedly originated. Ace Chemicals is present in several films and TV shows – Batman: The Animated Series, Batman (1989; renamed as Axis Chemicals), The Flash episode "Back to Normal", and Gotham as the site of Jeremiah Valeska turning into the Joker. In the DC Extended Universe film Suicide Squad, flashbacks show Joker convinced Harley Quinn to bath in the same chemicals as he did. After their break up, a drunken Harley blew up Ace in Birds of Prey.
 AmerTek Industries – A military arms dealer previously in Washington, D.C. John Henry Irons worked there until he discovered his inventions were being used for evil purposes. The company appears in a Season 5 episode of Arrow and alluded to via Deadshot in Batman: Arkham Origins and continuing in Batman: Arkham Knight.
 Big Belly Burger – A popular fast food restaurant chain owned by LexCorp. Seen in the Arrowverse and Blue Beetle.
 Daggett Industries – A pharmaceutical company founded and owned by Roland Daggett. It appears in Batman: The Animated Series and The Dark Knight Rises, via John Daggett.
 Ferris Aircraft – Coast City aerospace company originally founded and owned by Carl Ferris and Conrad Bloch  and now run by his daughter, Carol Ferris. It appears in other media like Justice League: The New Frontier, Green Lantern, Green Lantern: First Flight and mentioned in the Arrowverse.
 GothCorp – A company based in Gotham City, founded and owned by Ferris Boyle, targeted by ex-employee Victor Fries. The company is seen in Batman: The Animated Series and in the Arkhamverse.
 Steelworks – Located in Metropolis, founded and owned by John Henry Irons. 
 Kord Industries – An industrial firm founded