# Philippine folk music

The traditional music of the Philippines reflects the Philippines' diverse culture, originating from more than 100 ethnolinguistic groups and shaped by a widely varying historical and sociocultural milieu.

Classification 
Traditional Filipino music is reflective of the country's history as a melting pot of different cultures, both western and eastern. Among the dominant cultural strains noticeable today are Hispanic, American and to some extent Chinese, Indian and Islamic. It is thus difficult to strictly classify the whole corpus of Philippine music. 

A frequently used system is to classify it according to ethno-linguistic or cultural divisions: for example, traditional Tagalog music, which is somewhat more Hispanic in flavour, differs from Ifugao music and Maranao kulintang music.

Ethnomusicologists such as Ramon Santos and Corazon Canave-Dioquino typically identify three distinct traditions or "repertoires" of traditional Filipino music: 
 Indigenous traditions, also referred to as "Asiatic traditions" and as "Indigenous Philippine music"; 
 Spanish-European Influenced Traditions also referred to as "Westernized folk traditions" or "lowland Christianized folk traditions"; and 
 American Influenced Traditions, including western-influenced art and popular music, and semi classical music.

Forms

Traditional Filipino music is also sometimes categorized according to form, with one categorization being:
Strophic/unitary form
Binary form
Ternary form
Rondo form

Indigenous Philippine music 
The music of the Philippines' many indigenous peoples are associated with the various occasions that shape life in indigenous communities, including day-to-day activities as well as major life-events, which typically include "birth, initiation and graduation ceremonies; courtship and marriage; death and funeral rites; hunting, fishing, planting and harvest; healing and various forms of armed conflicts." 

Ethnomusicologists such as Ramon Santos note that indigenous Philippine music forms closely related to the cultural traditions of Southeast Asia. And since indigenous Philippine music is typically transmitted orally within the community, Santos refers to the indigenous Philippine music repertoire as part of "Asiatic oral traditions."

Santos also notes that the majority of these musical performances involve "the participation of the community or audience" and with "dancing and some form of physical movement." The notable exception is in instances of solo playing or small group singing, which do not necessarily involve much physical movement.

Spanish-influenced traditional music 
Aside from the music of Indigenous People groups, another major Philippine folk music tradition is the "Spanish influenced" tradition associated with the Philippines' lowland majority peoples.

Some of these musical forms, notably the metrical romances, were introduced during the Philippines' Spanish period of rule, and later adopted and adapted by local artists. Others are "syncretic and hybrid forms" - such as the subli and sanghiyang - which were assimilated from Western religious traditions. Yet others are westernized versions of tunes dating to the Philippine precolonial period, with notable examples including "planting songs, children's play songs, lullabies, love songs and serenades."

Due to the cultural dominance of the Philippines' lowland majority peoples, these westernized lowland traditions often monopolizes the label of "Philippine folk music."

American-influenced traditional music 
The Philippines' American colonial period, which lasted from 1898 to 1946, saw another period of transformation in Philippine music. Santos notes that much of Filipino art music, popular music, as well as semi-classical music predominantly fall under this repertoire.

Many of the developments during this period were influenced by the formal training received by musicians from music schools established in the early days of the American colonial regime. Earlier musical forms evolved further, as was the case of the Kundiman, which was widely adapted as an art song, further differentiating it from its predecessor, the Kumintang.

Vocal music 
A commonality is that vocal music is of significant import to every ethnic group in the country.  Although there are some music intended for dance, the best-preserved form of traditional music is that intended for the voice, with chanting epic poetry as having been the earliest form and later augmented by instrumental accompaniment. Regarded to have a wide range, as most of them stretch more than an octave, they are still considered within the capacity of even an average singer.

Dance music 
Dance music is an important form of traditional Philippine music. The best form of preserved music are those with lyrics and for music intended to accompany a dance. According to Francisca Reyes-Aquino, known for her voluminous collection of folk dances, people watching the dance sing the songs in the same way that cheerers chant in a game. This is very evident especially in songs where interjections Ay!, Aruy-Aruy!, Uy! and Hmp! are present, such as Paru-parong Bukid.

Music falling under this category may be classified as those belonging to Christianized Groups, Muslim Groups, and the other Ethnic Groups.

Dance music among Christianized ethnicities 
As Christianity was introduced to the Philippines, Dance Music classified as belonging to the Christianized Groups are somewhat related to Western music as well. Dance Music falling under this category may also be called Habanera, Jota, Fandango, Polka, Curacha, etc. and has the same characteristics as each namesakes in the Western Hemisphere.

However, there are also indigenous forms like the Balitao, Tinikling and Cariñosa (the national dance). In a study by National Artist for Music Dr. Antonio Molina, the Balitao, famous in Tagalog and Visayan regions, employs a 3/4 time signature with a "crotchet-quaver-quaver-crotchet" beat. Others use the "crotchet-minim" scheme, while others use the "dotted quaver-semiquaver-crotchet-quaver-quaver" scheme.

This type of music is generally recreational and, like traditional music from the West, is used for socialising.

Dance music among southern Muslim ethnicities 

The court and folk dance music of the Muslim-Filipino groups have preserved ancient Southeast Asian musical instruments, modes and repertoires lost to Hispanicized islands further north. It is important to note that stricter interpretations of Islam do not condone musical entertainment, and thus the musical genres among the Muslimized Filipinos cannot be considered "Islamic".Genres shares characteristics with other Southeast-Asian court and folk music: Indonesian Gamelan, Thai Piphat, Malay Caklempong, Okinawan Min'yō and to a lesser extent, through cultural transference through the rest of Southeast Asia, is comparable even to the music of the remote Indian Sub-Continent.

Generally, music falling under this category tells a story. An example is the Singkil, which relates an episode from the Darangen (the Maranao version of the ancient Indian epic, the Ramayana). The dance recounts the story of Putri Gandingan (Sita) as she was saved by Rajahmuda Bantugan (Rama) from crashing rocks, represented by bamboo poles. The Singkil is considered the most famous in the Philippines under this category for its perceived elegance, and is also performed by Filipinos from other ethnic groups throughout the country.

Music is related in war in some regions in the country, as it is a way to show the emotions of victory and defeat, as well as the resolution of conflict. Philippine music also depends on the biographical factors: in cooler regions such as the Cordilleras, the beat of the music is so slower, while in warmer areas it is quite fast.

Dance music among other indigenous ethnicities 

Like secular songs from the same group, this form of music has a sort of beat, even though it is hard to put it in a form of time signature. Percussions are mainly used for these type of music and sometimes, a gong is enough.

As closeness to Nature is a main feature of these ethnic groups, one can expect that dance steps falling under this category are a mimicry of the movements of plants and animals of a certain locality. Some music is simply called the 'Monkey Dance' or the 'Robin Dance' for identification.

Some of the music falling under this category is ritual music: thus there are dances used for marriage, worship, and even preparation for a war.

Popularity 

Unlike folk music in Ireland, Hungary, the Czech Republic and neighbouring Malaysia, traditional music in the Philippines has never reached contemporary popularity. Perhaps, it is partly due to the fact every region of the Philippines has its own language, and several decades of Americanisation.

Though some groups tried to collect songs from the different ethnolinguistic groups, none has so far succeeded in making traditional music a part of the national identity