# Military mascot

A military mascot, also known as a ceremonial pet or regimental mascot, is a pet animal maintained by a military unit as a mascot for ceremonial purposes and/or as an emblem of that unit. It differs from a military animal in that it is not employed for use directly in warfare as a weapon or for transport.

History
British Army units began to adopt non-working military animals in order to strengthen morale and to be used as a mascot/symbolic emblems for the unit in the 18th century. Animals that were adopted as military mascots were typically brought over by soldiers who went overseas, or were stray animals that were adopted by the unit along the way. However, some mascots were specifically gifted to a unit. Although military mascots typically only served a ceremonial purpose, some animals kept by military units have been utilized for other uses in addition to their role as mascots.

Australia

The practice of adopting animal mascots in the armed forces has a long history. Many Australian Imperial Force battalions in World War I brought all sorts of animals along with them, including dogs, kangaroos, koalas and even a Tasmanian devil. These animals offered companionship for the troops, were a way of expressing national pride, raised morale, and offered soldiers some relief from the harsh realities of war.  There are many ways that the animals were sourced, including advertising in the newspaper.  An advertisement in the Ballarat Courier in March 1916 reads, 
Nearly all of the brigades and battalions which have left our shores for the front have had a mascot of one kind or another... The 39th Battalion, which will bear the name of our city, Ballarat, is not yet possessed of a mascot. A gift of a well-bred fox terrier or bull pup would be much appreciated.

There are also examples of call outs for wallabies or kangaroos to be sent to training camps as mascots, and others were provided to battalions as gifts.  Some accounts of the acquisition of mascots indicate a rather ad-hoc approach.  The Queenslander in December 1914 featured the newly adopted koala mascot of the Second Queensland Contingent Light Horse ('The bear was discovered during a route march to Sandgate, and one of the men climbed the tree and secured it. The koala was at once adopted by the regiment').  Some mascots were accidentally lost prior to embarkation such as the bulldog named Colonel Stone, of the 42nd Battalion, in April 1916.

Several units of the Australian Army maintain their own mascots. A number of battalions of the Royal Australian Regiment maintain their own mascot. The mascot for 1st Battalion is a Shetland pony named Septimus; the mascot for 5th Battalion is a Sumatran tiger named Quintus; and the mascot of 6th Battalion is a blue heeler named Ridgeliegh Blue.

Several units of the Royal Australian Engineers also use a mascot. 2nd Combat Engineer Regiment uses an Australian Terrier named Driver as a mascot; while 3rd Combat Engineer Regiment uses a dingo named Wooly.

Other Australian units that have a mascot include the 2nd Cavalry Regiment, which uses a wedge-tailed eagle named Courage. The 1st Aviation Regiment has a peregrine falcon named Penny Alert.

Canada

The tradition of adopting military mascots with Canadian military units originates from British military tradition, with British military units having adopted animal mascots while deployed in Canada. During the late-1830s, a goat named Jacob was used as a mascot for the Citadelle of Quebec. Jacob was later brought to the United Kingdom 1842 and died in 1846. While in the United Kingdom he was awarded a Good Conduct Ring. Other examples of military mascots used by British units deployed in Canada include a bear adopted by the 83rd Regiment of Foot while they were in Canada during the 1840s.

Canadian Army
The official mascot of the Canadian Army is an anthropomorphic polar bear named Juno. The mascot was named after a naming contest was held in 2003. A live polar bear was later adopted as the "living mascot" of Juno, with the polar bear that was adopted being born on Remembrance Day at the Toronto Zoo in 2015. Named Juno, and made an honorary private of the army before he was promoted to an honorary corporal on his first birthday. On 11 November 2020, he was promoted to an honorary master corporal.

Several individual Canadian Army units have also adopted a live animal as a mascot for their units. During the Second World War, the 8th Canadian Hussars (Princess Louise's) found an injured filly while on deployment during the Italian campaign. The filly was nursed back to health by the unit and was adopted as its mascot, named Princess Louise. Princess Louise was later smuggled with the unit after they were redeployed to northwestern Europe. Princess Louise was finally retired in 1971, with another horse named Princess Louise II taking her place as the regimental mascot. 

Goats have also become a common mascot amongst units and installations in the army. In 1955, Queen Elizabeth II presented the Royal 22e Régiment with a bezoar ibex that descended from a pair of goats gifted to Queen Victoria by the Shah of Persia. Named Batisse, the Queen continued to send replacement goats to the unit until a breeding pair found in 1972, securing the succession of the mascots for the unit. The unit has maintained 10 goats, all named Batisse as of 2011. Other units and installations that used goats as a mascot includes the Royal Canadian Dragoons, who adopted Peter the Goat during the First World War; and CFB Borden, who adopted Sergeant W. Marktime the goat in 1957.

In addition to living animals, some Canadian units also used inanimate objects as their unit's mascot. A  First Nations pewter figurine originally attached to a factory in Picton, Ontario, was used as the mascot for the Hastings and Prince Edward Regiment. Named Little Chief, the unit brought the mascot over to Europe when it was deployed during the Second World War. However, the mascot was lost in June 1940 while the unit was deployed as a part of the Second British Expeditionary Force to France during Operation Aerial. A  solid pine replacement was ordered and was shipped to the unit to Europe later during the Second World War.

Mascot formerly used by Canadian Army units includes Winnipeg or Winnie, a female black bear and mascot used by the Canadian Army Veterinary Corps (later renamed the Royal Canadian Army Veterinary Corps) during the First World War. Winnipeg was acquired by Lieutenant Harry Colebourn in White River, Ontario, and was named after Colebourn's hometown of Winnipeg. While with Colebourn, Winnipeg served as the pet for 2nd Canadian Infantry Brigade headquarters while it was located in the United Kingdom, and as a mascot for the veterinary corps. However orders were given in December 1914 to remove Winnipeg from brigade headquarters, as he would not be able to accompany them on the battlefields of France. Winnipeg was initially loaned to the London Zoo while Colebourn was on deployment, although he later opted to donate him to the zoo after the war. Winnipeg later served as the inspiration for A. A. Milne's Winnie-the-Pooh, who frequented the zoo with his son, Christopher Robin Milne. The 101st Regiment also adopted a mascot during the First World War, Lestock the coyote, that was also donated to a zoo in London after the unit was redeployed to France in 1915. Lestock likeness was later adopted as a part of the unit's cap badge.

The mascot of the Royal Newfoundland Regiment was a Newfoundland dog named Sable Chief, presented to the unit during the First World War. Sable Chief was later struck by a vehicle by accident and died, although his stuffed remains were later brought back to St. John's, Newfoundland and Labrador. Other former mascots used by Canadian Army units includes Wallace the St. Bernard, used by the Canadian Scottish Regiment during the Second World War;  Heather the Aberdeen terrier, used by the Calgary Highlanders during the Second World War; and Petty Office Wilbur Duck, an orange-billed white duck used by the Canadian Airborne Regiment during the 1970s.

Royal Canadian Air Force
The 444 Tactical Helicopter Squadron also used an inanimate object as a mascot, a metal-fashioned hooded snake modelled after the unit's squadron badge. Named Cecil the Snake, the mascot was acquired in Germany while the unit was deployed as a part of Canadian Forces Europe. Because the sculpture had become the target of pranks from the unit's peers in the Royal Canadian Air Force, the metal snake was rarely left out in the open, and its security was entrusted to a junior officer in the unit. Other mascots used by the air force units includes a sculpture of a golden yellow-leg named Twillick, used by the Aircraft Control and Warning Squadron.

Royal Canadian Navy
The Royal Canadian Navy named an anthropomorphic Newfoundland dog as its official mascot; named SONAR as a result of a naming contest in 2010. Several Royal Canadian Navy sh