# Therapeutic gene modulation

Therapeutic gene modulation refers to the practice of altering the expression of a gene at one of various stages, with a view to alleviate some form of ailment. It differs from gene therapy in that gene modulation seeks to alter the expression of an endogenous gene (perhaps through the introduction of a gene encoding a novel modulatory protein) whereas gene therapy concerns the introduction of a gene whose product aids the recipient directly.

Modulation of gene expression can be mediated at the level of transcription  by DNA-binding agents (which may be artificial transcription factors), small molecules, or synthetic oligonucleotides. It may also be mediated post-transcriptionally through RNA interference.

Transcriptional gene modulation 
An approach to therapeutic modulation utilizes agents that modulate endogenous transcription by specifically targeting those genes at the gDNA level. The advantage to this approach over modulation at the mRNA or protein level is that every cell contains only a single gDNA copy. Thus the target copy number is significantly lower allowing the drugs to theoretically be administered at much lower doses.

This approach also offers several advantages over traditional gene therapy. Directly targeting endogenous transcription should yield correct relative expression of splice variants. In contrast, traditional gene therapy typically introduces a gene which can express only one transcript, rather than a set of stoichiometrically-expressed spliced transcript variants. Additionally, virally-introduced genes can be targeted for gene silencing by methylation which can counteract the effect of traditional gene therapy. This is not anticipated to be a problem for transcriptional modulation as it acts on endogenous DNA.

There are three major categories of agents that act as transcriptional gene modulators: triplex-forming oligonucleotides (TFOs), synthetic polyamides (SPAs), and DNA binding proteins.

Triplex-forming oligonucleotides

What are they

Triplex-forming oligonucleotides (TFO) are one potential method to achieve therapeutic gene modulation. TFOs are approximately 10-40 base pairs long and can bind in the major groove in duplex DNA which creates a third strand or a triple helix. The binding occurs at polypurine or polypyrimidine regions via Hoogsteen hydrogen bonds to the purine (A / G) bases on the double stranded DNA that is already in the form of the Watson-Crick helix.

How they work
TFOs can be either polypurine or polypyrimidine molecules and bind to one of the two strands in the double helix in either parallel or antiparallel orientation to target polypurine or polypyrimidine regions. Since the DNA-recognition codes are different for the parallel and the anti-parallel fashion of TFO binding, TFOs composed of pyrimidines (C / T) bind to the purine-rich strand of the target double helix via Hoogsteen hydrogen bonds in a parallel fashion. TFOs composed of purines (A / G), or mixed purine and pyrimidine bind to the same purine-rich strand via reverse Hoogsteen bonds in an anti-parallel fashion. TFO's can recognize purine-rich target strands for duplex DNA.

Complications and limitations
In order for TFO motifs to bind in a parallel fashion and create hydrogen bonds, the nitrogen atom at position 3 on the cytosine residue needs to be protonated, but at physiological pH levels it is not, which could prevent parallel binding.

Another limitation is that TFOs can only bind to purine-rich target strands and this would limit the choice of endogenous gene target sites to polypurine-polypyrimidine stretches in duplex DNA. If a method to also allow TFOs to bind to pyrimidine bases was generated, this would enable TFOs to target any part of the genome. Also the human genome is rich in polypurine and polypyrimidine sequences which could affect the specificity of TFO to bind to a target DNA region. An approach to overcome this limitation is to develop TFOs with modified nucleotides that act as locked nucleic acids to increase the affinity of the TFO for specific target sequences.

Other limitations include concerns regarding binding affinity and specificity, in vivo stability, and uptake into cells. Researchers are attempting to overcome these limitations by improving TFO characteristics through chemical modifications, such as modifying the TFO backbone to reduce electrostatic repulsions between the TFO and the DNA duplex. Also due to their high molecular weight, uptake into cells is limited and some strategies to overcome this include DNA condensing agents, coupling of the TFO to hydrophobic residues like cholesterol, or cell permeabilization agents.

What can they do
Scientists are still refining the technology to turn TFOs into a therapeutic product and much of this revolves around their potential applications in antigene therapy. In particular they have been used as inducers of site-specific mutations, reagents that selectively and specifically cleave target DNA, and as modulators of gene expression. One such gene sequence modification method is through the targeting DNA with TFOs to active a target gene. If a target sequence is located between two inactive copies of a gene, DNA ligands, such as TFOs, can bind to the target site and would be recognized as DNA lesions. To fix these lesions, DNA repair complexes are assembled on the targeted sequence, the DNA is repaired. Damage of the intramolecular recombination substrate can then be repaired and detected if resection goes far enough to produce compatible ends on both sides of the cleavage site and then 3' overhangs are ligated leading to the formation of a single active copy of the gene and the loss of all the sequences between the two copies of the gene.

In model systems TFOs can inhibit gene expression at the DNA level as well as induce targeted mutagenesis in the model. TFO-induced inhibition of transcription elongation on endogenous targets have been tested on cell cultures with success. However, despite much in vitro success, there has been limited achievement in cellular applications potentially due to target accessibility.

TFOs have the potential to silence silence gene by targeting transcription initiation or elongation, arresting at the triplex binding sites, or introducing permanent changes in a target sequence via stimulating a cell's inherent repair pathways. These applications can be relevant in creating cancer therapies that inhibit gene expression at the DNA level. Since aberrant gene expression is a hallmark of cancer, modulating these endogenous genes' expression levels could potentially act as a therapy for multiple cancer types.

Synthetic polyamides 
Synthetic polyamides are a set of small molecules that form specific hydrogen bonds to the minor groove of DNA. They can exert an effect either directly, by binding a regulatory region or transcribed region of a gene to modify transcription, or indirectly, by designed conjugation with another agent that makes alterations around the DNA target site.

Structure
Specific bases in the minor groove of DNA can be recognized and bound by small synthetic polyamides (SPAs). DNA-binding SPAs have been engineered to contain three polyamide amino acid components: hydroxypyrrole (Hp), imidazole (Im), and pyrrole (Py). Chains of these amino acids loop back on themselves in a hairpin structure. The amino acids on either side of the hairpin form a pair which can specifically recognize both sides of a Watson-Crick base pair. This occurs through hydrogen bonding within the minor groove of DNA. The amide pairs Py/Im, Py/Hp, Hp/Py, and Im/Py recognize the Watson-Crick base pairs C-G, A-T, T-A, and G-C, respectively (Table 1). See figure for a graphical representation of 5'-GTAC-3' recognition by a SPA. SPAs have low toxicity, but have not yet been used in human gene modulation.

Limitations and workarounds
The major structural drawback to unmodified SPAs as gene modulators is that their recognition sequence cannot be extended beyond 5 Watson-Crick base pairings. The natural curvature of the DNA minor groove is too tight a turn for the hairpin structure to match. There are several groups with proposed workarounds to this problem. SPAs can be made to better follow the curvature of the minor groove by inserting beta-alanine which relaxes the structure. Another approach to extending the recognition length is to use several short hairpins in succession. This approach has increased the recognition length to up to eleven Watson-Crick base pairs.

Direct modulation
SPAs may inhibit transcription through binding within a transcribed region of a target gene. This inhibition occurs through blocking of elongation by an RNA polymerase.
 
SPAs may also modulate transcription by targeting a transcription regulator binding site. If the regulator is an activator of transcription, this will decrease transcriptional levels. As an example, SPA targeting to the binding site for the activating transcription factor TFIIIA has