# Wilton Mall

Wilton Mall is a regional shopping center, located off Interstate 87 exit 15 in the town of Wilton, directly north of Saratoga Springs, New York. The mall features the traditional retailers JCPenney, Dick's Sporting Goods, HomeGoods, in addition to a Healthy Living Market as well as a Planet Fitness. The mall features several additional prominent specialty retailers such as American Eagle, Bath and Body Works, Ulta Beauty, Francesca's, Old Navy, Maurices, Yankee Candle, Shoe Dept., Talbot's, and Zumiez.

The mall has a gross leasable area of . It is currently owned by Macerich, having been purchased from Wilmorite Properties of Rochester, New York in 2004.

The dawn of the 2020s saw several storied traditional department store retailers update its brick-and-mortar formats after being encroached upon to a degree by several digital retailers in recent years

In August 2018, it was announced department store retailer The Bon-Ton would be shuttering after it was unable to elect any new conditions to satisfy its established long-term debt. As of February 2023, the previous The Bon-Ton outpost is in the approval stages to become townhouses and 400 luxury apartments.

In 2018, it was revealed Saratoga Hospital would be reconstructing Sears after it had announced to shutter as part of an ongoing decision to phase out of their traditional brick-and-mortar format.

In March 2022, Macerich, the mall development firm, unveiled its plan for a future enhanced development with up to 400 luxury apartments as well as townhomes, something it has done at its malls before including Tysons Corner Center. The developers desire to add many additional features such as a theater, art gallery, microbreweries, distilleries, row houses, an indoor pool, cocktail lounges, and even laboratories and research centers.

References

External links

 Official website

Shopping malls in New York (state)
Macerich
Buildings and structures in Saratoga County, New York
Tourist attractions in Saratoga Springs, New York