# Solar power by country

Many countries and territories have installed significant solar power capacity into their electrical grids to supplement or provide an alternative to conventional energy sources. 
Solar power plants use one of two technologies:

 Photovoltaic (PV) systems use solar panels, either on rooftops or in ground-mounted solar farms, converting sunlight directly into electric power.
 Concentrated solar power (CSP, also known as "concentrated solar thermal") plants use solar thermal energy to make steam, that is thereafter converted into electricity by a turbine.

The worldwide growth of photovoltaics is extremely dynamic and varies strongly by country. In April 2022, the total global solar power capacity reached 1 TW. In 2022, the leading country for solar power was China, with about 390 GW, accounting for nearly two-fifths of the total global installed solar capacity. As of 2022, there are more than 40 countries around the world with a cumulative PV capacity of more than one gigawatt, including Canada, South Africa, Chile, the United Kingdom, South Korea, Austria, Argentina and the Philippines.
 
The top installers of 2022 included China, the United States, and India.  Japan, Brazil, the Netherlands, France, Mexico and Germany were also among the top installers of 2022. The available solar PV capacity in Australia is now sufficient to supply more than 15% of the nation's electrical energy while Honduras, Italy, Spain, Germany and Greece can produce between 9% and 14% of their respective annual domestic electricity consumption. 

After an almost two decade long hiatus, the deployment of CSP resumed in 2007. 
However, the design for several new projects is being changed to cheaper photovoltaics. 
Most operational CSP stations are located in Spain and the United States, while large solar farms using photovoltaics are being constructed in an expanding list of geographic regions. Other countries, like Finland, Denmark, Israel, Ukraine and Algeria, can also produce any portions of their electricity consumption.

Global use figures

Solar photovoltaics (PV)

In 2022, China had the highest solar power capacity in the world, followed by the United States and Japan.

Concentrated solar power

Africa 

Many African countries receive on average a very high number of days per year of bright sunlight, especially the dry areas, which include the arid deserts (such as the Sahara) and the semi-desert steppes (such as the Sahel). This gives solar power the potential to bring energy to virtually any location in Africa without the need for expensive large-scale grid-level infrastructural developments.
The distribution of solar resources across Africa is fairly uniform, with more than 85% of the continent's landscape receiving at least 2,000 kWh/(m2 year). A study indicates that a solar generating facility covering just 0.3% of the area comprising North Africa could supply all of the energy required by the European Union.

Algeria 

Algeria has the highest technical and economical potential for solar power exploitation in the MENA region, with about 170 TWh per year. First industrial scale solar thermal power project has been initiated by inauguration of Hassi R'Mel power station in 2011. This new hybrid power plant combines a 25-megawatt (MW) concentrating solar power array in conjunction with a 130 MW combined cycle gas turbine plant.
In addition, Algeria has launched in 2011 a national program to develop renewable energy based on photovoltaics (PV), concentrated solar power (CSP) and wind power, and to promote energy efficiency. The program consists of installing up to 12 GW of power generating capacity from renewable sources to meet the domestic electricity demand by 2030.

Egypt 

Benban Solar Park is a Photovoltaic power station with a total capacity of 1650 MW nominal power which corresponds to an annual production of approximately 3.8 TWh. It is located in Benban (Aswan Governorate) in the western desert, approximately 650 km south of Cairo and 40 km northwest of Aswan. Benban is currently the 4th largest solar power plant in the world.

Morocco 

Solar power in Morocco is enabled by the country having one of the highest rates of solar insolation among other countries— about 3,000 hours per year of sunshine but up to 3,600 hours in the desert. Morocco has launched one of the world's largest solar energy projects costing an estimated $9 billion. The aim of the project is to create 2,000 megawatts of solar generation capacity by the year 2020. Five solar power stations are to be constructed, including both photovoltaic and concentrated solar power technology. The Moroccan Agency for Solar Energy (MASEN), a public-private venture, has been established to lead the project. The first plant will be commissioned in 2015, and the entire project in 2020. Once completed, the solar project will provide 38% of Morocco's annual electricity generation.

Somalia

South Africa 

South Africa had 1329 MW of PV installations and 100 MW of concentrating solar thermal at the end of 2016. It is expected to reach an installed capacity 8,400 MW by 2030, along with 8,400 MW of wind power. The country's insolation greatly exceeds the average values in Europe, Russia, and most of North America.

Asia

Armenia 

Armenia due its geographical and climate properties is well-suited for the solar energy utilization. According to the Ministry of Energy Infrastructure and Natural Resources of Armenia the country is capable of producing 1850 kWh/m2 per year. For comparison European countries are capable of around 1000 kWh/m2 per year on average. Two main panel types utilized in Armenia are the photovoltaic and thermal solar panels. The country is aiming to invest heavy in the segment of renewable energy, as that arises from the geopolitical situation in the region, where Armenia has tenuous relations with some competitive (due to distance) oil-reach suppliers of the region. Thus, besides the investment in the sector by the state - e.g. providing finance for solar energy utilization for rural areas, Armenia also prepared a suitable legislative base to help attract foreign investments of capital - e.g. the guarantee by the state to buy at least for 15 years the surplus energy that will be produced by the solar plants. The country is aiming to developing its economy sustainably, through increase in the technological potential and productivity.

China 

China is leading the world in solar PV generation, with the total installed capacity exceeding 200 GW by the end of 2019. Since overtaking Germany in 2015, China has been #1 in the world in solar power. China is the world's largest market for both photovoltaics and solar thermal energy. and in the last few years, more than half of the total PV additions came from the country. Solar power in the People's Republic of China is one of the biggest industries and the subsidies by the government have helped in bringing down the cost of solar power, not only in China, but the whole world. China also leads the world in solar water heating with 290 GWth in operation at the end of 2014, accounting for about 70% of the total world capacity. China's goal is to reach 1,300 GW of Solar Capacity by 2050.

Georgia

India 

India has the world's third fastest expanding solar power program (next only to China & USA). In the year 2017 alone India added a record 9,255 MW of solar power with another 9,627 MW of solar projects under development. India launched its National Solar Mission in 2010 under the National Action Plan on Climate Change, with plans to generate 20 GW by 2022. This target has been achieved four years ahead of its deadline with India surpassing 20 GW of installed solar capacity in January 2018. In January 2015, Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced an initiative to increase the solar capacity to 100 GW and total renewable power capacity to 175 gigawatts (GW) by 2022. This target is ambitious considering the worldwide installed solar capacity at that time was 177 GW, out of which only 2.5 GW was installed in India.

To reach the goal of 100 GW of installed solar capacity by 2022, Modi's government has set a target to auction at least 77 gigawatts of additional solar power capacity by March 2020. A total of 1.2 GW of solar power is tendered in the first week of 2018 and a solar power tender of 20 GW, world's largest so far, is to be auctioned off in one go in 2018. Several large grid-scale solar parks are in operation, several of which are among the world's largest such as Kurnool Ultra Mega Solar Park with the capacity of 1,000 MW, the Kamuthi Solar Power Project with the capacity of 648 MW, the 345 MW Charanka Solar Park, the 480 MW Bhadla Solar Park with a proposed capacity of 2,255 MW and the Gujarat solar parks with a combined capacity of 605 MW. In July 2017, Indian Railways rolled out trains with rooftop solar to power the lights, fans and displays inside the coaches. Cochin International Airport, seventh busiest in India, is th