# Travancore, Victoria

Travancore is an inner-city suburb in Melbourne, Victoria, Australia,  north-west of Melbourne's Central Business District, located within the City of Moonee Valley local government area. Travancore recorded a population of 2,116 at the .

The suburb is located between the Tullamarine Freeway and Mount Alexander Road, south of Ormond Road, although the northernmost section of the area is still incorrectly referred to as Ascot Vale. Travancore was initially supposed to encompass the entirety of the area flanked by Ormond and Mount Alexander Roads and the Tullamarine Freeway. The Moonee Valley City Council has taken steps to bring the remainder of the proposed area of Travancore into the suburb. That will reflect what was originally intended and, in turn, will reduce the area of the suburb of Ascot Vale.

Travancore takes its name from the Travancore Mansion and Estate, a property in the area owned by Henry Madden. Madden purchased the property, previously Flemington House, from the relatives of Hugh Glass in 1906, and renamed it. Madden exported horses to India, hence the property being named after the former southern Indian kingdom of Travancore, now part of the Indian state of Kerala. When the land around Travancore Mansion was sub-divided, many of the streets were named in keeping with the Indian theme, such as Baroda Street, Lucknow Street, Bengal Street, Cashmere Street and Mangalore Street. Some of the houses reflect the Old English architecture of the former Travancore region of India.

Travancore Mansion was purchased by the Victorian Government and became a special education school. The building was demolished in the 1940s, and the area is now occupied by the Travancore campus of Royal Children's Hospital Mental Health.

The Flemington Primary School has the ornate gates that once belonged to the Travancore Mansion.

The Essendon tram depot, located on Mount Alexander Road, Travancore, is on the Victorian Heritage Register.

Travancore, only  from Melbourne's CBD, has seen a transformation in recent years, following a fire that destroyed the Lombard Paper Factory. The former factory site is now occupied by residential towers that flank the suburb on its southern side.

See also
 City of Melbourne – Travancore was previously within this local government area.

References

Suburbs of Melbourne
Suburbs of the City of Moonee Valley