# Hejazi Arabic

Hejazi Arabic or Hijazi Arabic (HA) (, ), also known as West Arabian Arabic, is a variety of Arabic spoken in the Hejaz region in Saudi Arabia. Strictly speaking, there are two main groups of dialects spoken in the Hejaz region, one by the urban population, originally spoken mainly in the cities of Jeddah, Mecca, Medina and partially in Ta'if and another dialect by the urbanized rural and bedouin populations. However, the term most often applies to the urban variety which is discussed in this article.

In antiquity, the Hejaz was home to the Old Hejazi dialect of Arabic recorded in the consonantal text of the Qur'an. Old Hejazi is distinct from modern Hejazi Arabic, and represents an older linguistic layer wiped out by centuries of migration, but which happens to share the imperative prefix vowel /a-/ with the modern dialect.

Classification 
Also referred to as the sedentary Hejazi dialect, this is the form most commonly associated with the term "Hejazi Arabic", and is spoken in the urban centers of the region, such as Jeddah, Mecca, and Medina. With respect to the axis of bedouin versus sedentary dialects of the Arabic language, this dialect group exhibits features of both. Like other sedentary dialects, the urban Hejazi dialect is less conservative than the bedouin varieties in some aspects and has therefore shed some Classical forms and features that are still present in bedouin dialects, these include gender-number disagreement, and the feminine marker -n (see Varieties of Arabic). But in contrast to bedouin dialects, the constant use of full vowels and the absence of vowel reduction plus the distinction between the emphatic letters  and  is generally retained.

Innovative features 

 The present progressive tense is marked by the prefix   or   or   as in   or   or   ("he is studying").
 The future tense is marked by the prefix   or   as in   or   ("he will study").
 the internal passive form, which in Hejazi, is replaced by the pattern ( ,  ) or ( ,  ).
 Loss of the final  sound in the 3rd person masculine singular pronoun . For example,   ("his house"),   ("I know him"),   ("they said it"),   ("on him") and   ("we saw him") vs.   ("we saw") .
loss of gender-specificity in numbers except for the number "one" which is  m.  and  f. .
The pronunciation of the interdental letters  ,, and . (See Hejazi Arabic Phonology)
loss of gender-specificity in plural verb forms, e.g.   instead of masculine   and feminine  .
loss of gender-specificity in plural adjectives, e.g.   "bored" can be used to describe both feminine and masculine plural nouns.
The verb forms V, VI and IIQ have an additional initial  , e.g.   "it shattered" (V),   "she worked" (VI) and   "they babbled" (IIQ).

Conservative features 
 Hejazi Arabic does not employ double negation, nor does it append the negation particles -sh to negate verbs: Hejazi   ("I don't know"), as opposed to Egyptian   and Palestinian  .
The habitual present tense is not marked by any prefixes as in   ("he studies") and   ("I love you"), as opposed to Egyptian   and  .
 The prohibitive mood of Classical Arabic is preserved in the imperative:   ("don't go").
 The possessive suffixes are generally preserved in their Classical forms. For example,   "your (pl) house".
 The plural first person pronoun is   or  , as opposed to the bedouin   or  .
 When indicating a location, the preposition   (also written as a prefix ) is preferred to   as in  or   ("in Medina").
The pronunciation of the  is  as in Modern Standard Arabic as in   ("Riyadh").
 The hamzated verbs like   and   keep their classical form as opposed to   and  .
 The use of  in form 1 verbs is retained as in   or   as opposed to  and  in Najdi and Gulf Arabic.
 The glottal stop can be added to final syllables ending in a vowel as a way of emphasising.
the definite article  is always pronounced  as opposed to Egyptian or Kuwaiti  and the final  is always pronounced .
 Compared to neighboring dialects, urban Hejazi retains most of the short vowels of Classical Arabic with no vowel reduction (ghawa syndrome), for example:
  ("fish"), as opposed to bedouin , and   ("pronunciation"), as opposed to bedouin 
   ("our pocket"), as opposed to bedouin  and Egyptian .
   ("she hit him"), as opposed to bedouin .
   ("his son"), as opposed to bedouin .
   ("in your possession" pl.), as opposed to bedouin , Egyptian , and Levantine .
  ("on me"), as opposed to bedouin .

History 
The Arabic of today is derived principally from the old dialects of Central and North Arabia which were divided by the classical Arab grammarians into three groups: Hejaz, Najd, and the language of the tribes in adjoining areas. Though the modern Hejazi dialects has developed markedly since the development of Classical Arabic, and Modern Standard Arabic is quite distinct from the modern dialect of Hejaz. Standard Arabic now differs considerably from modern Hejazi Arabic in terms of its phonology, morphology, syntax, and lexicon, such diglossia in Arabic began to emerge at the latest in the sixth century CE when oral poets recited their poetry in a proto-Classical Arabic based on archaic dialects which differed greatly from their own.

Urban Hejazi Arabic belongs to the western Peninsular Arabic branch of the Arabic language, which itself is a Semitic language. It includes features of both urban and bedouin dialects given its development in the historical cities of Jeddah, Medina and Mecca in proximity to the bedouin tribes that lived on the outskirts of these cities, in addition to a minimal influence in vocabulary from other urban Arabic dialects and Modern Standard Arabic, and more recently the influence of the other dialects of Saudi Arabia, all of which made Urban Hejazi a dialect that is distinctly unique but close to peninsular dialects on one hand and urban Arabic dialects on the other.

Historically, it is not well-known in which stage of Arabic the shift from the Proto-Semitic pair  qāf and  gīm came to be Hejazi  gāf and jīm , although it has been attested as early as the eighth century CE, and it can be explained by a chain shift * →  →  that occurred in one of two ways:

 Drag Chain: Proto-Semitic gīm  palatalized to Hejazi jīm  first, opening up a space at the position of , which qāf * then moved to fill the empty space resulting in Hejazi gāf , restoring structural symmetrical relationships present in the pre-Arabic system.
 Push Chain: Proto-Semitic qāf * changed to Hejazi gāf  first, which resulted in pushing the original gīm  forward in articulation to become Hejazi jīm , but since most modern qāf dialects as well as standard Arabic also have jīm, then the push-chain of qāf to gāf first can be discredited, although there are good grounds for believing that old Arabic qāf had both voiced  and voiceless  as allophones; and later on the gīm  was fronted to jīm , possibly as a result of pressure from the allophones.
* The original value of Proto-Semitic qāf was probably an emphatic  not .

The development of  to  have also been observed in languages like Azeri in which the Old Turkic  is pronounced as a velar ; e.g. قال / qal 'stay' is pronounced , rather than  as in Turkish or  in Bashkir, Uyghur, Kazakh, etc.

Phonology 
In general, Hejazi native phonemic inventory consists of 26 (with no interdental ) to 28 consonant phonemes depending on the speaker's background and formality, in addition to the marginal phoneme . Furthermore, it has an eight-vowel system, consisting of three short and five long vowels . Consonant length and Vowel length are both distinctive and being a Semitic language the four emphatic consonants  are treated as separate phonemes from their plain counterparts. 

The main phonological feature that differentiates urban Hejazi from other peninsular dialects in regards to consonants; is the pronunciation of the letters  ,, and  (see Hejazi Phonology) and the pronunciation of   as in Standard Arabic. Another differential feature is the lack of palatalization for the letters  ,   and  , unlike in other peninsular dialects where they can be palatalized in certain positions e.g. Hejazi  'new'  vs. Gulf Arabic  and Hejazi  'with you'  vs. traditional Najdi .

The marginal /ɫ/ is only used in the word  'God' /aɫːaːh/ (except when it follows an  as in بسمِ الله ) and in words derived from it, It contrasts with /l/ in والله 'I swear' /waɫːa/ vs. ولَّا 'or' /walːa/. Unlike other neighboring dialects;  is not velarized in certain positions, as in  'brain' pronounced with a light Lām  in Hejazi and velarized one  in other peninsular Arabic dialects. Two additional foreign phonemes  ⟨پ⟩ and  ⟨ڤ⟩ are used by a number of speakers while many substitute them with  ⟨ب⟩ and  ⟨ف⟩ respectively, in general  is more integrated and used by most speakers than .

A conservative feature that Hejazi holds is the constant use of full vowels and the absence of vowel reduction, for example  'we told them', is pronounced  in Hejazi with full vowels but pronounced with the re