# Myki

Myki ( ), stylised as myki, is a reloadable credit card-sized contactless smart card ticketing system used for electronic payment of fares on most public transport services in Melbourne and regional Victoria, Australia. Myki replaced the Metcard ticketing system and became fully operational at the end of 2012.

The system was developed by Kamco (Keane Australia Micropayment Consortium) and is used by Public Transport Victoria. The initial 10-year contract was worth approximately A$1.5 billion, described by The Age as "the [world's] biggest for a smartcard ticketing system". The Myki contract was extended in July 2016 for a further seven years.

Ticketing requirements for trains, trams and buses in Melbourne are mainly contained in the Transport (Compliance and Miscellaneous) (Ticketing) Regulations 2017 and the Victorian Fares and Ticketing Manual.

The Myki agreement with the Victorian government is set to expire in November 2023, and opponents of the system are seeking to scrap the program in favor of alternatives, including simple smartphone and card payment options adopted in London. On 15 May 2023, the Victorian government announced it had signed a contract with Conduent, an American company, that will take over the Myki system for the next 15 years. The new system will reportedly be rolled out by 2025.

Usage

Operation
Passengers can purchase a rechargeable Myki smartcard from the ticket office at a staffed railway station, Myki machines at railway stations and major bus and tram interchanges (full fare only), the PTV Hub at Southern Cross railway station, from a retailer (including most 7-Eleven outlets) displaying the Myki sign, online at ptv.vic.gov.au, or by phoning Public Transport Victoria. Cards cannot be bought onboard trams or buses. A full fare card costs $6, and a concession or child card costs $3.

After acquiring a Myki, the passenger needs to add value onto the card, in a process called "topping up". The value stored on the card is called "Myki money". Top up is available at the same places as card purchase, or "auto top up" can be set up to recharge the card from a linked credit card or bank account automatically when the Myki money balance falls to a set threshold. Top up is also available using the PTV app.

To use Myki when travelling, a passenger holds the card against a reader (called "touching on" or "touching off"). Passengers touch on at the start of a trip and (except for a tram trip within Zone 1) touch off at the end of the trip, at which point the appropriate fare is assessed and deducted from the stored Myki money value on the card. If the fare for a trip is greater than the stored Myki money balance remaining, the card will show a negative Myki money balance, in which case it cannot be touched on again until it has been topped up to reach a positive amount of money. Passengers do not need to touch on or off for tram trips entirely within the city's "Free Tram Zone", which covers roughly the CBD.

Mobile Myki 
Mobile Myki is a virtual Myki card on an Android phone using Google Wallet. Stored value and fares calculation works in the same way as a normal Myki, and the phone is held against a Myki reader to touch on or off.
Note: Mobile Myki cards need to be registered in the same process as regular Myki Cards and are not automatically linked to the user. Mobile Myki on the iPhone has yet to be released.

Services available 
A Myki card can be used for travel on:
 Melbourne metropolitan train, tram and bus services including SmartBus, but not Skybus services (Metro, PTV buses, Yarra Trams, etc)
 V/Line trains travelling within the V/Line commuter belt (between Southern Cross (Melbourne) and Seymour, Traralgon, Wendouree, Waurn Ponds, and Epsom/Eaglehawk stations)
 Regional buses in major towns within the commuter belt (e.g., Ballarat, Bendigo, Geelong and the Latrobe Valley).

Card types
There are Myki cards for full fare, concession, child and Victorian seniors passengers.

Myki cards were originally issued with a green front, featuring different designs showing a selection of playful symbols on the front, and with different city-related photographs on the back depending on the type of card. After a redesign in late 2014, Myki cards now have a predominantly grey/black design on the front, meaning it is no longer possible to visually distinguish between full fare and concession cards.

A "Myki Explorer" pack is available, intended for use by interstate and overseas visitors (or an option for users from outside metropolitan Melbourne). Full fare packs cost $16 and child, concession and seniors packs cost $8. The pack includes a Myki card pre-loaded with $10 (full fare) or $5 (concession), which is enough for one day's worth of travel in Zones 1 and 2; the pack also includes vouchers for discounts at major tourist attractions, instructions on how to use Myki, and a protective Myki wallet. Users can reclaim any unused balance on their Myki when they no longer need it, but not the $6 or $3 purchase price. The pack is sold from locations such as Melbourne Airport, hotel concierge desks, backpacker and bed & breakfast accommodation facilities, tourist information centres, Station Pier, Melbourne, Southern Cross station and other outlets.

Card registration 
Myki cards and Mobile Myki can be "registered" with Public Transport Victoria (PTV), which protects the card holder against loss of the card and enables the holder to view their travel history online. It also enables "auto top up" to be set up, enables the card holder to view the card expiry date online and allows PTV to contact the registered card holder of an imminent card expiry date.

Fare calculation and default fares 

Myki is a multi-modal fare and ticketing system based on zones. Metropolitan Melbourne is divided into two zones (Zones 1 and 2). Outside of metropolitan Melbourne there are a further eleven zones (Zones 3–13). There are areas of overlap between some zones (notably Zones 1 and 2), where locations exist within both zones.

The Myki system calculates the cheapest fare for a passenger based on the time and zone(s) travelled in on a given day. Fares are assessed on the basis of a two-hour fare or a daily fare. Longer periods, of 7 days or 28–365 days, can be pre-loaded into the card as a Myki pass giving unlimited travel within a nominated zone or zones for the relevant period. If a 365-day pass is purchased, the days above 325 are free of charge. Myki fares are based on the time and zone fares used under the previous Metcard system (with zones expanded to cover the V/Line commuter belt), with the exception of the single trip "City Saver" fare which was not made available under the Myki system.

If a Myki card is not touched off at the completion of a journey the system will charge a default fare, which is usually equal to the most expensive journey that could have been undertaken by a passenger, based on the location of touch on. Passengers do not need to touch off when alighting a tram unless their travel is only within Zone 2. Prior to the introduction of Myki, a separate fares and ticketing system existed for all V/Line (country) services, based on paper tickets. This system still operates on V/Line services that run outside of the commuter belt area and where reserved seating is required.

Following the 2022 Victorian state election promise, a daily fare cap has been introduced where regardless of the number of zones travelled, the fare cap applied would be the same as a Zone 1+2 fare. This change was made to encourage public transport use and reduce the burden for people living in regional Victoria, as well as boosting regional tourism. However, there are criticisms induced due to the frequency of services, where it is unknown whether the demand would be too big for the current system to handle and the unwillingness of the government to increase the service frequency.

Card expiry 
A Myki card has a limited validity period, but the expiry date is not printed on the card. A physical card expires four years after the date on which it is purchased. Mobile Myki expires after two years.  If the card is registered, the holder can see online the date on which the card expires. PTV also contacts the registered card holder shortly before the expiry date to remind them of the card's imminent expiry. Holders of anonymous cards must use a card vending machine or Myki Check machine to find out when their card will expire.

A Myki card that has expired or is expiring in the next 60 days can be replaced for free at staffed metropolitan railway stations, Myki-enabled V/Line stations or a PTV Hub, with any balance from the expired/expiring card being transferred to the new card instantly. Alternatively, users can post their expired/expiring Myki card to PTV and wait up to 10 working days for a new card to be posted to them. If the expired/expiring card was registered, the replacement card will be automatically registered. Auto top-up will not b