# Palatines

Palatines () are the citizens and princes of the Palatine states of the Holy Roman Empire, controlled directly by the Holy Roman Emperor. After the fall of the Holy Roman Empire in 1806, the Palatine nationality came to refer specifically to people of the Rhenish Palatinate, known simply as "the Palatinate".

American Palatines, e.g. the Pennsylvania Dutch and New York Dutch, have maintained a presence in America since 1683. They are collectively known as "Palatine Dutch" ().

Towards the end of the 17th century and into the 18th, the Palatinate was repeatedly invaded by France, during the Nine Years' War and the War of the Spanish Succession. At that time the region had not yet fully recovered from the Thirty Years' War. Scorched earth policies and continuous military requisitions caused widespread devastation and famine. The winter of 1708/09 was notably cold, resulting in further hardships.

Some 13,000 Protestant refugees – known at the time as "Poor Palatines", although they included people from other German-speaking countries – arrived in England between May and November 1709. Their arrival led to a highly politicised debate over the merits of immigration. The government of the newly formed Kingdom of Great Britain moved the vast majority to Ireland and British North America. The most successful and long-lived Palatine settlements occurred in counties Limerick and Wexford in Ireland, and in the colony of New York.

Many of the Palatines settled in Ireland in 1709 had, within a few decades, also moved to North America. While fewer than 200 families remained as permanent settlers in Ireland, they maintained their distinctive culture until well into the 19th-century, and recognisably Palatine surnames became distributed throughout Ireland. The largest concentration of descendants of Palatines is in a wide area around Rathkeale, County Limerick.

In New York, nearly 3,000 Palatines arrived in 1710, transported by the British government in 10 ships. Many of them were initially required to work off the cost of their passage, residing at camps along the Hudson River. Close to 850 families settled in the Hudson River Valley, primarily in what are now Germantown and Saugerties, New York. They produced stores for the Navy in work camps on each side of the Hudson.

In 1723, 100 heads of families from the work camps were the first Europeans to acquire land west of Little Falls, in present-day Herkimer County on both the north and south sides along the Mohawk River. This settlement was halfway through the valley, on the frontier far beyond Schenectady and Albany. Later additional Palatines settled along the Mohawk for several miles, founding towns such as Palatine and Palatine Bridge, and in the Schoharie Valley.

Holy Roman Nationality

Palatines, Paladins, and the Holy Roman Empire (800–1806)

The term palatine or palatinus was first used in the Roman Empire for chamberlains of the emperor (e.g. Chamberlain of the Holy Roman Church) due to their association with the Palatine Hill, the home where Roman emperors lived since Augustus Caesar (and whence "palace").

After the fall of Ancient Rome, a new feudal type of title known simply as palatinus, came into use. The comes palatinus (Count palatine) assisted the Holy Roman Emperor in his judicial duties and at a later date administered many of these himself. Other counts palatine were employed on military and administrative work.

The Holy Roman Emperor sent the counts palatine to various parts of his empire to act as judges and governors; the states they ruled were called Holy Roman Palatinates. Being in a special sense the representatives of the Holy Roman Emperor, they were entrusted with more extended power than ordinary counts. In this way came about the later and more general use of the word "palatine", its application as an adjective to persons entrusted with royal Holy Roman powers and privileges—and also to the states and people they ruled over.

Imperial Palatines

Counts palatine were the permanent representatives of the Holy Roman Emperor, in a palatial domain (Palatinate) of the crown. There were dozens of these royal palatinates (Pfalzen) throughout the early empire, and the emperor would travel between them, as there was no imperial capital.

In the empire, the term count palatine was also used to designate the officials who assisted the emperor in exercising the rights which were reserved for his personal consideration, like granting arms. They were called imperial counts palatine (in Latin comites palatini caesarii, or comites sacri palatii; in German, Hofpfalzgrafen). Both the Latin form (Comes) palatinus and the French (comte) palatin have been used as part of the full title of the dukes of Burgundy (a branch of the French royal dynasty) to render their rare German title Freigraf, which was the style of a (later lost) bordering principality, the allodial County of Burgundy (Freigrafschaft Burgund in German), which came to be known as Franche-Comté.

During the 11th century, some imperial palatine counts became a valuable political counterweight against the mighty duchies. Surviving old palatine counties were turned into new institutional pillars through which the imperial authority could be exercised. By the reigns of Henry the Fowler and especially of Otto the Great, comites palatini were sent into all parts of the country to support the royal authority by checking the independent tendencies of the great tribal dukes. Apparent thereafter was the existence of a count palatine in Saxony, and of others in Lorraine, in Bavaria and in Swabia, their duties being to administer the royal estates in these duchies.

Next to the Dukes of Lotharingia, Bavaria, Swabia and Saxony, who had become dangerously powerful feudal princes, loyal supporters of the Holy Roman Emperor were installed as counts palatine.

The Lotharingian palatines out of the Ezzonian dynasty were important commanders of the imperial army and were often employed during internal and external conflicts (e.g. to suppress rebelling counts or dukes, to settle frontier disputes with the Hungarian and the French kingdom and to lead imperial campaigns).

Although a palatinate could be rooted for decades into one dynasty, the office of the palatine counts became hereditary only during the 12th century. During the 11th century the palatinates were still regarded as beneficia, non-hereditary fiefs. The count palatine in Bavaria, an office held by the family of Wittelsbach, became duke of this land, the lower comital title being then merged into the higher ducal one. The Count Palatine of Lotharingia changed his name to Count Palatine of the Rhine in 1085, alone remaining independent until 1777. The office having become hereditary, Pfalzgrafen were in existence until the dissolution of the Holy Roman Empire in 1806. The palatinate of Saxony merged with the Electoral Duchy of Saxony. The Palatinate of the Rhine became an electorate, and both were Imperial Vicars.

Palatine states

Palatinate of Champagne 
King Lothar of France (954–986) gave Odo I, Count of Blois, one of his most loyal supporters in the struggle against the Robertians and the Counts of Vermandois, in 976 the title of count palatine. The title was later inherited by his heirs, and when they died out, by the Counts of Champagne.

Palatinate of Bavaria 

Originally, the counts palatine held the County Palatine (around Regensburg) and were subordinate to the Dukes of Bavaria, rather than to the king. The position gave its holder a leading position in the legal system of the duchy.
 Meginhard I, Count Palatine of Bavaria in 883
 Arnulf II (d. 954), son of Duke Arnulf I of Bavaria, constructed Scheyern Castle around 940
 Berthold (d. 999), son of Arnulf II, Count Palatine of Bavaria between 954 and 976 with interruptions, ancestor of the Counts of Andechs
 Hartwig I (d. 985), Count Palatine of Bavaria from 977 until his death
 Aribo I (d. , son-in-law of Hartwig I, Count Palatine of Bavaria from 985 until his death
 Hartwig II (d. 1027), son of Aribo I, Count Palatine of Bavaria from 1020 to 1026
 Aribo II (d. 1102), son of Hartwig II, Count Palatine of Bavaria from 1026 to 1055
 Kuno I (d. ), Count Palatine of Bavaria
 Rapoto I (d. 1099), Count Palatine of Bavaria from  to 1093
 Engelbert I (d. 1122), nephew of both of Aribo II's wives, Count Palatine of Bavaria from 1099 to 1120
 Otto IV ( – 1156), probably a descendant of Arnulf II, Count Palatine of Bavaria from 1120 until his death. He moved his residence from Scheyern Castle to Wittelsbach Castle and founded the House of Wittelsbach.
 Otto V ( – 1183), Count Palatine of Bavaria from 1156 to 1180. He became Duke of Bavaria in 1180 as Otto I; his descendants ruled the Duchy until 1918.
 Otto VII (d. 1189), younger son of Otto IV, Count Palatine of Bavaria from 1180 until his death
 Otto VIII (d. 1209), son of Otto VII, Count Palatine of Bavaria from 1189 to 1208, infamous for murdering King Philip of Germany