[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

the order Hepaticæ; -- so called from the small imbricated scalelike leaves of most of the species. See Hepatica, 2, and Jungermannia. SCALE Scale, v. t. 1. To strip or clear of scale or scales; as, to scale a fish; to scale the inside of a boiler. 2. To take off in thin layers or scales, as tartar from the teeth; to pare off, as a surface. "If all the mountaines were scaled, and the earth made even." T. Burnet. 3. To scatter; to spread. [Scot. & Prov. Eng.] 4. (Gun.) Defn: To clean, as the inside of a cannon, by the explosion of a small quantity of powder. Totten. SCALE Scale, v. i. 1. To separate and come off in thin layers or laminæ; as, some sandstone scales by exposure. Those that cast their shell are the lobster and crab; the old skins are found, but the old shells never; so it is likely that they scale off. Bacon. 2. To separate; to scatter. [Scot. & Prov. Eng.] SCALE Scale, n. Etym: [L. scalae, pl., scala staircase, ladder; akin to scandere to climb. See Scan; cf. Escalade.] 1. A ladder; a series of steps; a means of ascending. [Obs.] 2. Hence, anything graduated, especially when employed as a measure or rule, or marked by lines at regular intervals. Specifically: (a) A mathematical instrument, consisting of a slip of wood, ivory, or metal, with one or more sets of spaces graduated and numbered on its surface, for measuring or laying off distances, etc., as in drawing, plotting, and the like. See Gunter's scale. (b) A series of spaces marked by lines, and representing proportionately larger distances; as, a scale of miles, yards, feet, etc., for a map or plan. (c) A basis for a numeral system; as, the decimal scale; the binary scale, etc. (d) (Mus.) The graduated series of all the tones, ascending or descending, from the keynote to its octave; -- called also the gamut. It may be repeated through any number of octaves. See Chromatic scale, Diatonic scale, Major scale, and Minor scale, under Chromatic, Diatonic, Major, and Minor. 3. Gradation; succession of ascending and descending steps and degrees; progressive series; scheme of comparative rank or order; as, a scale of being. There is a certain scale of duties . . . which for want of studying in right order, all the world is in confusion. Milton. 4. Relative dimensions, without difference in proportion of parts; size or degree of the parts or components in any complex thing, compared with other like things; especially, the relative proportion of the linear dimensions of the parts of a drawing, map, model, etc., to the dimensions of the corresponding parts of the object that is represented; as, a map on a scale of an inch to a mile. Scale of chords, a graduated scale on which are given the lengths of the chords of arcs from 0º to 90º in a circle of given radius, -- used in measuring given angles and in plotting angles of given numbers of degrees. SCALE Scale, v. t. Etym: [Cf. It. scalare, fr. L. scale, scala. See Scale a ladder.] Defn: To climb by a ladder, or as if by a ladder; to ascend by steps or by climbing; to clamber up; as, to scale the wall of a fort. Oft have I scaled the craggy oak. Spenser. SCALE Scale, v. i. Defn: To lead up by steps; to ascend. [Obs.] Satan from hence, now on the lower stair, That scaled by steps of gold to heaven-gate, Looks down with wonder. Milton. SCALEBACK Scale"back`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: Any one of numerous species of marine annelids of the family Polynoidæ, and allies, which have two rows of scales, or elytra, along the back. See Illust. under Chætopoda. SCALEBEAM Scale"beam`, n. 1. The lever or beam of a balance; the lever of a platform scale, to which the poise for weighing is applied. 2. A weighing apparatus with a sliding weight, resembling a steelyard. SCALEBOARD Scale"board` (; commonly , n. Etym: [3d scale + board.] 1. (Print.) Defn: A thin slip of wood used to justify a page. [Obs.] Crabb. 2. A thin veneer of leaf of wood used for covering the surface of articles of firniture, and the like. Scaleboard plane, a plane for cutting from a board a wide shaving forming a scaleboard. SCALED Scaled, a. 1. Covered with scales, or scalelike structures; -- said of a fish, a reptile, a moth, etc. 2. Without scales, or with the scales removed; as, scaled herring. 3. (Zoöl.) Defn: Having feathers which in form, color, or arrangement somewhat resemble scales; as, the scaled dove. Scaled dove (Zoöl.), any American dove of the genus Scardafella. Its colored feather tips resemble scales. SCALELESS Scale"less, a. Defn: Destitute of scales. SCALENE Sca*lene", a. Etym: [L. scalenus, Gr. scalène.] 1. (Geom.) (a) Having the sides and angles unequal; -- said of a triangle. (b) Having the axis inclined to the base, as a cone. 2. (Anat.) (a) Designating several triangular muscles called scalene muscles. (b) Of or pertaining to the scalene muscles. Scalene muscles (Anat.), a group of muscles, usually three on each side in man, extending from the cervical vertebræ to the first and second ribs. SCALENE Sca*lene", n. (Geom.) Defn: A triangle having its sides and angles unequal. SCALENOHEDRAL Sca*le`no*he"dral, a. (Crystallog.) Defn: Of or pertaining to a scalenohedron. SCALENOHEDRON Sca*le`no*he"dron, n. Etym: [Gr. (Crystallog.) Defn: A pyramidal form under the rhombohedral system, inclosed by twelve faces, each a scalene triangle. SCALER Scal"er, n. Defn: One who, or that which, scales; specifically, a dentist's instrument for removing tartar from the teeth. SCALE-WINGED Scale"-winged`, a. (Zoöl.) Defn: Having the wings covered with small scalelike structures, as the lepidoptera; scaly-winged. SCALINESS Scal"i*ness, n. Defn: The state of being scaly; roughness. SCALING Scal"ing, a. 1. Adapted for removing scales, as from a fish; as, a scaling knife; adapted for removing scale, as from the interior of a steam boiler; as, a scaling hammer, bar, etc. 2. Serving as an aid in clambering; as, a scaling ladder, used in assaulting a fortified place. SCALIOLA Scal*io"la, n. Defn: Same as Scagliola. SCALL Scall, n. Etym: [Icel. skalli a bald head. Cf. Scald, a.] Defn: A scurf or scabby disease, especially of the scalp. It is a dry scall, even a leprosy upon the head. Lev. xiii. 30. SCALL Scall, a. Defn: Scabby; scurfy. [Obs.] Shak. SCALLED Scalled, a. Defn: Scabby; scurfy; scall. [Obs.] "With scalled brows black." Chaucer. Scalled head. (Med.) See Scald head, under Scald, a. SCALLION Scal"lion, n. Etym: [OF. escalone, escaloingne, L. caepa Ascalonius of Ascalon, fr. Ascalo Ascalon, a town in Palestine. Cf. Shallot.] 1. (Bot.) Defn: A kind of small onion (Allium Ascalonicum), native of Palestine; the eschalot, or shallot. 2. Any onion which does not "bottom out," but remains with a thick stem like a leek. Amer. Cyc. SCALLOP Scal"lop, n. Etym: [OF. escalope a shell, probably of German or Dutch origin, and akin to E. scale of a fish; cf. D. schelp shell. See Scale of a fish, and cf. Escalop.] [Written also scollop.] 1. (Zoöl.) Defn: Any one of numerous species of marine bivalve mollusks of the genus Pecten and allied genera of the family Pectinidæ. The shell is usually radially ribbed, and the edge is therefore often undulated in a characteristic manner. The large adductor muscle of some the species is much used as food. One species (Vola Jacobæus) occurs on the coast of Palestine, and its shell was formerly worn by pilgrims as a mark that they had been to the Holy Land. Called also fan shell. See Pecten, 2. Note: The common edible scallop of the Eastern United States is Pecten irradians; the large sea scallop, also used as food, is P. Clontonius, or tenuicostastus. 2. One of series of segments of circles joined at their extremities, forming a border like the edge or surface of a scallop shell. 3. One of the shells of a scallop; also, a dish resembling a scallop shell. SCALLOP Scal"lop, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Scalloped; p. pr. & vb. n. Scalloping.] 1. To mark or cut the edge or border of into segments of circles, like the edge or surface of a scallop shell. See Scallop, n., 2. 2. (Cookery) Defn: To bake in scallop shells or dishes; to prepare with crumbs of bread or cracker, and bake. See Scalloped oysters, below. SCALLOPED Scal"loped, a. 1. Furnished with a scallop; made or done with or in a scallop. 2. Having the edge or border cut or marked with segments of circles. See Scallop, n., 2. 3. (Cookery) Defn: Baked in a scallop; cooked with crumbs. Scalloped oysters (Cookery), opened oysters baked in a deep dish with alternate layers of bread or cracker crumbs, seasoned with pepper, nutmeg, and butter. This was at first done in scallop shells. SCALLOPER Scal"lop*er, n. Defn: One who fishes for scallops. SCALLOPING Scal"lop*ing, n. Defn: Fishing for scallops. SCALP