[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

applied; especially of glass which is shaped into facets, tooth ornaments, and the like. Glass having ornamental scrolls, etc., cut upon it, is said to be engraved. -- Glass metal, the fused material for making glass. -- Glass painting, the art or process of producing decorative effects in glass by painting it with enamel colors and combining the pieces together with slender sash bars of lead or other metal. In common parlance, glass painting and glass staining (see Glass staining, below) are used indifferently for all colored decorative work in windows, and the like. -- Glass paper, paper faced with pulvirezed glass, and used for abrasive purposes. -- Glass silk, fine threads of glass, wound, when in fusion, on rapidly rotating heated cylinders. -- Glass silvering, the process of transforming plate glass into mirrors by coating it with a reflecting surface, a deposit of silver, or a mercury amalgam. -- Glass soap, or Glassmaker's soap, the black oxide of manganese or other substances used by glass makers to take away color from the materials for glass. -- Glass staining, the art or practice of coloring glass in its whole substance, or, in the case of certain colors, in a superficial film only; also, decorative work in glass. Cf. Glass painting. -- Glass tears. See Rupert's drop. -- Glass works, an establishment where glass is made. -- Heavy glass, a heavy optical glass, consisting essentially of a borosilicate of potash. -- Millefiore glass. See Millefiore. -- Plate glass, a fine kind of glass, cast in thick plates, and flattened by heavy rollers, -- used for mirrors and the best windows. -- Pressed glass, glass articles formed in molds by pressure when hot. -- Soluble glass (Chem.), a silicate of sodium or potassium, found in commerce as a white, glassy mass, a stony powder, or dissolved as a viscous, sirupy liquid; -- used for rendering fabrics incombustible, for hardening artificial stone, etc.; -- called also water glass. -- Spun glass, glass drawn into a thread while liquid. -- Toughened glass, Tempered glass, glass finely tempered or annealed, by a peculiar method of sudden cooling by plunging while hot into oil, melted wax, or paraffine, etc.; -- called also, from the name of the inventor of the process, Bastie glass. -- Water glass. (Chem.) See Soluble glass, above. -- Window glass, glass in panes suitable for windows. GLASS Glass, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Glassed; p. pr. & vb. n. Glassing.] 1. To reflect, as in a mirror; to mirror; -- used reflexively. Happy to glass themselves in such a mirror. Motley. Where the Almighty's form glasses itself in tempests. Byron. 2. To case in glass. [R.] Shak. 3. To cover or furnish with glass; to glaze. Boyle. 4. To smooth or polish anything, as leater, by rubbing it with a glass burnisher. GLASS-CRAB Glass"-crab`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: The larval state (Phyllosoma) of the genus Palinurus and allied genera. It is remarkable for its strange outlines, thinness, and transparency. See Phyllosoma. GLASSEN Glass"en, a. Defn: Glassy; glazed. [Obs.] And pursues the dice with glassen eyes. B. Jonson. GLASSEYE Glass"eye`, n. 1. (Zoöl.) Defn: A fish of the great lakes; the wall-eyed pike. 2. (Far.) Defn: A species of blindness in horses in which the eye is bright and the pupil dilated; a sort of amaurosis. Youatt. GLASS-FACED Glass"-faced`, a. Defn: Mirror-faced; reflecting the sentiments of another. [R.] "The glass-faced flatterer." Shak. GLASSFUL Glass"ful, n.; pl. Glassfuls (. Defn: The contents of a glass; as much of anything as a glass will hold. GLASSFUL Glass"ful, a. Defn: Glassy; shining like glass. [Obs.] "Minerva's glassful shield." Marston. GLASS-GAZING Glass"-gaz`ing, a. Defn: Given to viewing one's self in a glass or mirror; finical. [Poetic] Shak. GLASSHOUSE Glass"house`, n. Defn: A house where glass is made; a commercial house that deals in glassware. GLASSILY Glass"i*ly, adv. Defn: So as to resemble glass. GLASSINESS Glass"i*ness, n. Defn: The quality of being glassy. GLASSITE Glass"ite, n. Defn: A member of a Scottish sect, founded in the 18th century by John Glass, a minister of the Established Church of Scotland, who taught that justifying faith is "no more than a simple assent to the divine testimone passively recived by the understanding." The English and American adherents of this faith are called Sandemanians, after Robert Sandeman, the son-in-law and disciple of Glass. GLASS MAKER; GLASSMAKER Glass" mak`er, or; Glass"mak`er, n. Defn: One who makes, or manufactures, glass. -- Glass" mak`ing, or Glass"mak`ing, n. GLASS-ROPE Glass"-rope`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: A remarkable vitreous sponge, of the genus Hyalonema, first brought from Japan. It has a long stem, consisting of a bundle of long and large, glassy, siliceous fibers, twisted together. GLASS-SNAIL Glass"-snail`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: A small, transparent, land snail, of the genus Vitrina. GLASS-SNAKE Glass"-snake`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: A long, footless lizard (Ophiosaurus ventralis), of the Southern United States; -- so called from its fragility, the tail easily breaking into small pieces. It grows to the length of three feet. The name is applied also to similar species found in the Old World. GLASS-SPONGE Glass"-sponge`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: A siliceous sponge, of the genus Hyalonema, and allied genera; -- so called from their glassy fibers or spicules; -- called also vitreous sponge. See Glass-rope, and Euplectella. GLASSWARE Glass"ware, n. Defn: Ware, or articles collectively, made of glass. GLASSWORK Glass"work`, n. Defn: Manufacture of glass; articles or ornamentation made of glass. GLASSWORT Glass"wort`, n. (Bot.) Defn: A seashore plant of the Spinach family (Salicornia herbacea), with succulent jointed stems; also, a prickly plant of the same family (Salsola Kali), both formerly burned for the sake of the ashes, which yield soda for making glass and soap. GLASSY Glass"y, a. 1. Made of glass; vitreous; as, a glassy substance. Bacon. 2. Resembling glass in its properties, as in smoothness, brittleness, or transparency; as, a glassy stream; a glassy surface; the glassy deep. 3. Dull; wanting life or fire; lackluster; -- said of the eyes. "In his glassy eye." Byron. Glassy feldspar (Min.), a variety of orthoclase; sanidine. GLASTONBURY THORN Glas"ton*bur*y thorn`. (Bot.) Defn: A variety of the common hawthorn. Loudon. GLASYNGE Glas"ynge, n. Defn: Glazing or glass. [Obs.] GLAUBERITE Glau"ber*ite, n. Etym: [From Glauber, a German chemist, died 1668: cf. F. glaubérite, G. glauberit.] (Min.) Defn: A mineral, consisting of the sulphates of soda and lime. GLAUBER'S SALT; GLAUBER'S SALTS Glau"ber's salt` or; Glau"ber's salts` (. Etym: [G. glaubersalz, from Glauber, a German chemist who discovered it. See Glauberite.] Defn: Sulphate of soda, a well-known cathartic. It is a white crystalline substance, with a cooling, slightly bitter taste, and is commonly called "salts." Note: It occurs naturally and abundantly in some mineral springs, and in many salt deposits, as the mineral mirabilite. It is manufactured in large quantities as an intermediate step in the "soda process," and also for use in glass making. GLAUCESCENT Glau*ces"cent, a. Etym: [See Glaucous.] Defn: Having a somewhat glaucous appearance or nature; becoming glaucous. GLAUCIC Glau"cic, a. (Chem.) Defn: Of or pertaining to the Glaucium or horned poppy; -- formerly applied to an acid derived from it, now known to be fumaric acid. GLAUCINE Glau"cine, a. Defn: Glaucous or glaucescent. GLAUCINE Glau"cine, n. (Chem.) Defn: An alkaloid obtained from the plant Glaucium, as a bitter, white, crystalline substance. GLAUCODOT Glau"co*dot, n. Etym: [Gr. (Min.) Defn: A metallic mineral having a grayish tin-white color, and containing cobalt and iron, with sulphur and arsenic. GLAUCOMA Glau*co"ma, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. (Med.) Defn: Dimness or abolition of sight, with a diminution of transparency, a bluish or greenish tinge of the refracting media of the eye, and a hard inelastic condition of the eyeball, with marked increase of tension within the eyeball. GLAUCOMATOUS Glau*co"ma*tous, a. Defn: Having the nature of glaucoma. GLAUCOMETER Glau*com"e*ter, n. Defn: See Gleucometer. GLAUCONITE Glau"co*nite, n. Etym: [Cf. F. glauconite, glauconie, fr. L. glaucus. See Glaucous.] (Min.) Defn: The green mineral characteristic of the greensand of the chalk and other formations. It is a hydrous silicate of iron and potash. See Greensand. GLAUCOPHANE Glau"co*phane, n. Etym: [Gr. (Min.) Defn: A mineral of a dark bluish color, related to amphibole. It is characteristic of certain crystalline rocks. GLAUCOSIS Glau*co"sis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.) Defn: Same as Glaucoma. GLAUCOUS Glau"cous, a. Etym: [L. glaucus, Gr. 1. Of a sea-green color; of a dull green passing into grayish blue. Lindley. 2. (Bot.) Defn: Covered with a fine bloom or fine white powder easily rubbed off, as that on a blue plum, or on a cabbage leaf. Gray. GLAUCUS Glau"cus, n. Etym: [L., sea green.] (Zoöl.) Defn: A genus of nudibranchiate mollusks, found in the warmer latitudes, swimming in the open sea. These mollusks are beautifully colored with blue and silvery white. GLAUM Glaum, v. i. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.] Defn: To grope with the hands, as in the dark. [Scot.] To glaum at, to grasp or snatch at; to aspire to. Wha glaum'd at kingdoms three. Burns. GLAVE Glave, n. Defn: See Glaive. GLAVER Glav"er, v. i. Etym: [Of