[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

of hunger; to starve. 2. To suffer extreme hunger or thirst, so as to be exhausted in strength, or to come near to perish. You are all resolved rather to die than to famish Shak. 3. To suffer extremity from deprivation of anything essential or necessary. The Lord will not suffer the soul of the righteous to famish. Prov. x. 3. FAMISHMENT Fam"ish*ment, n. Defn: State of being famished. FAMOSITY Fa*mos"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. famositas infamy: cf. F. famosité. See Famous.] Defn: The state or quality of being famous. [Obs.] Johnson. FAMOUS Fa"mous, a. Etym: [L. famosus, fr. fama fame: cf. F. fameux. See Fame.] Defn: Celebrated in fame or public report; renowned; mach talked of; distinguished in story; -- used in either a good or a bad sense, chiefly the former; often followed by for; as, famous for erudition, for eloquence, for military skill; a famous pirate. Famous for a scolding tongue. Shak. Syn. -- Noted; remarkable; signal; conspicuous; celebrated; renowned; illustrious; eminent; transcendent; excellent. -- Famous, Renowned, Illustrious. Famous is applied to a person or thing widely spoken of as extraordinary; renowned is applied to those who are named again and again with honor; illustrious, to those who have dazzled the world by the splendor of their deeds or their virtues. See Distinguished. FAMOUSED Fa"moused, a. Defn: Renowned. [Obs.] Shak. FAMOUSLY Fa"mous*ly, adv. Defn: In a famous manner; in a distinguished degree; greatly; splendidly. Then this land was famously enriched With politic grave counsel. Shak. FAMOUSNESS Fa"mous*ness, n. Defn: The state of being famous. FAMULAR Fam"u*lar, n. Etym: [Cf. L. famularis of servants.] Defn: Domestic; familiar. [Obs.] Chaucer. FAMULATE Fam"u*late, v. i. Etym: [L. famulatus, p.p. of famulari to serve, fr. famulus servant.] Defn: To serve. [Obs.] FAMULIST Fam"u*list, n. Etym: [L. famulus servant.] Defn: A collegian of inferior rank or position, corresponding to the sizar at Cambridge. [Oxford Univ., Eng.] FAN Fan, n. Etym: [AS. fann, fr. L. vannus fan, van for winnowing grain; cf. F. van. Cf. Van a winnowing machine, Winnow.] 1. An instrument used for producing artificial currents of air, by the wafting or revolving motion of a broad surface; as: (a) An instrument for cooling the person, made of feathers, paper, silk, etc., and often mounted on sticks all turning about the same pivot, so as when opened to radiate from the center and assume the figure of a section of a circle. (b) (Mach.) Any revolving vane or vanes used for producing currents of air, in winnowing grain, blowing a fire, ventilation, etc., or for checking rapid motion by the resistance of the air; a fan blower; a fan wheel. (c) An instrument for winnowing grain, by moving which the grain is tossed and agitated, and the chaff is separated and blown away. (d) Something in the form of a fan when spread, as a peacock's tail, a window, etc. (e) A small vane or sail, used to keep the large sails of a smock windmill always in the direction of the wind. Clean provender, which hath been winnowed with the shovel and with the fan. Is. xxx. 24. 2. That which produces effects analogous to those of a fan, as in exciting a flame, etc.; that which inflames, heightens, or strengthens; as, it served as a fan to the flame of his passion. 3. A quintain; -- from its form. [Obs.] Chaucer. Fan blower, a wheel with vanes fixed on a rotating shaft inclosed in a case or chamber, to create a blast of air (fan blast) for forge purposes, or a current for draft and ventilation; a fanner. -- Fan cricket (Zoöl.), a mole cricket. -- Fan light (Arch.), a window over a door; -- so called from the semicircular form and radiating sash bars of those windows which are set in the circular heads of arched doorways. -- Fan shell (Zoöl.), any shell of the family Pectinidæ. See Scallop, n., 1. -- Fan tracery (Arch.), the decorative tracery on the surface of fan vaulting. -- Fan vaulting (Arch.), an elaborate system of vaulting, in which the ribs diverge somewhat like the rays of a fan, as in Henry VII.'s chapel in Westminster Abbey. It is peculiar to English Gothic. -- Fan wheel, the wheel of a fan blower. -- Fan window. Same as Fan light (above). FAN Fan, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Fanned; p. pr. & vb. n. Fanning.] Etym: [Cf. OF. vanner, L. vannere. See Fan, n., Van a winnowing machine.] 1. To move as with a fan. The air . . . fanned with unnumbered plumes. Milton. 2. To cool and refresh, by moving the air with a fan; to blow the air on the face of with a fan. 3. To ventilate; to blow on; to affect by air put in motion. Calm as the breath which fans our eastern groves. Dryden. 4. To winnow; to separate chaff from, and drive it away by a current of air; as, to fan wheat. Jer. li. 2. 5. To excite or stir up to activity, as a fan axcites a flame; to stimulate; as, this conduct fanned the excitement of the populace. Fanning machine, or Fanning mill, a machine for separating seed from chaff, etc., by a blast of air; a fanner. FANAL Fa`nal", n. Etym: [F.] Defn: A lighthouse, or the apparatus placed in it for giving light. FANATIC Fa*nat"ic, a. Etym: [L. fanaticus inspired by divinity, enthusiastic, frantic, fr. fanum fane: cf. F. fanatique. See Fane.] Defn: Pertaining to, or indicating, fanaticism; extravagant in opinions; ultra; unreasonable; excessively enthusiastic, especially on religious subjects; as, fanatic zeal; fanatic notions. But Faith, fanatic Faith, once wedded fast To some dear falsehood, hugs it to the last. T. Moore. FANATIC Fa*nat"ic, n. Defn: A person affected by excessive enthusiasm, particularly on religious subjects; one who indulges wild and extravagant notions of religion. There is a new word, coined within few months, called fanatics, which, by the close stickling thereof, seemeth well cut out and proportioned to signify what is meant thereby, even the sectaries of our age. Fuller (1660). Fanatics are governed rather by imagination than by judgment. Stowe. FANATICAL Fa*nat"ic*al, a. Defn: Characteristic of, or relating to, fanaticism; fanatic. - Fa*nat"ic*al*ly, adv. -- Fa*nat"ic*al*ness, n. FANATICISM Fa*nat"i*cism, n. Etym: [Cf. Fanatism.] Defn: Excessive enthusiasm, unreasoning zeal, or wild and extravagant notions, on any subject, especially religion; religious frenzy. Syn. -- See Superstition. FANATICIZE Fa*nat"i*cize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Fanaticized; p. pr. & vb. n. Fanaticizing.] Defn: To cause to become a fanatic. FANATISM Fan"a*tism, n. Etym: [Cf. F. fanatisme. Cf. Fanaticism.] Defn: Fanaticism. [R.] Gibbon. FANCIED Fan"cied, a. Etym: [From Fancy, v. t.] Defn: Formed or conceived by the fancy; unreal; as, a fancied wrong. FANCIER Fan"ci*er, n. 1. One who is governed by fancy. "Not reasoners, but fanciers." Macaulay. 2. One who fancies or has a special liking for, or interest in, a particular object or class or objects; hence, one who breeds and keeps for sale birds and animals; as, bird fancier, dog fancier, etc. FANCIFUL Fan"ci*ful, a. 1. Full of fancy; guided by fancy, rather than by reason and experience; whimsical; as, a fanciful man forms visionary projects. 2. Conceived in the fancy; not consistent with facts or reason; abounding in ideal qualities or figures; as, a fanciful scheme; a fanciful theory. 3. Curiously shaped or constructed; as, she wore a fanciful headdress. Gather up all fancifullest shells. Keats. Syn. -- Imaginative; ideal; visionary; capricious; chimerical; whimsical; fantastical; wild. -- Fanciful, Fantastical, Visionary. We speak of that as fanciful which is irregular in taste and judgment; we speak of it as fantastical when it becomes grotesque and extravagant as well as irregular; we speak of it as visionary when it is wholly unfounded in the nature of things. Fanciful notions are the product of a heated fancy, without any tems are made up of oddly assorted fancies, aften of the most whimsical kind; visionary expectations are those which can never be realized in fact. -- Fan"ci*ful*ly, adv. -Fan"ci*ful*ness, n. FANCILESS Fan"*ci*less, a. Defn: Having no fancy; without ideas or imagination. [R.] A pert or bluff important wight, Whose brain is fanciless, whose blood is white. Armstrong. FANCY Fan"cy, n.; pl. Fancies. Etym: [Contr. fr. fantasy, OF. fantasie, fantaisie, F. fantaisie, L. phantasia, fr. Gr. bhato shine. Cf. Fantasy, Fantasia, Epiphany, Phantom.] 1. The faculty by which the mind forms an image or a representation of anything perceived before; the power of combining and modifying such objects into new pictures or images; the power of readily and happily creating and recalling such objects for the purpose of amusement, wit, or embellishment; imagination. In the soul Are many lesser faculties, that serve Reason as chief. Among these fancy next Her office holds. Milton. 2. An image or representation of anything formed in the mind; conception; thought; idea; conceit. How now, my lord ! why do you keep alone, Of sorriest fancies your companoins making Shak. 3. An opinion or notion formed without much