[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

Stag, n. Etym: [Icel. steggr the male of several animals; or a doubtful AS. stagga. Cf. Steg.] 1. (Zoöl.) (a) The adult male of the red deer (Cervus elaphus), a large European species closely related to the American elk, or wapiti. (b) The male of certain other species of large deer. 2. A colt, or filly; also, a romping girl. [Prov. Eng.] 3. A castrated bull; -- called also bull stag, and bull seg. See the Note under Ox. 4. (Stock Exchange) (a) An outside irregular dealer in stocks, who is not a member of the exchange. [Cant] (b) One who applies for the allotment of shares in new projects, with a view to sell immediately at a premium, and not to hold the stock. [Cant] 5. (Zoöl.) Defn: The European wren. [Prov. Eng.] Stag beetle (Zoöl.), any one of numerous species of lamellicorn beetles belonging to Lucanus and allied genera, especially L. cervus of Europe and L. dama of the United States. The mandibles are large and branched, or forked, whence the name. The lava feeds on the rotten wood of dead trees. Called also horned bug, and horse beetle. -- Stag dance, a dance by men only. [slang, U.S.] -- Stag hog (Zoöl.), the babiroussa. -- Stag-horn coral (Zoöl.), any one of several species of large branching corals of the genus Madrepora, which somewhat resemble the antlers of the stag, especially Madrepora cervicornis, and M. palmata, of Florida and the West Indies. -- Stag-horn fern (Bot.), an Australian and West African fern (Platycerium alcicorne) having the large fronds branched like a stag's horns; also, any species of the same genus. -- Stag-horn sumac (Bot.), a common American shrub (Rhus typhina) having densely velvety branchlets. See Sumac. -- Stag party, a party consisting of men only. [Slang, U. S.] -- Stag tick (Zoöl.), a parasitic dipterous insect of the family Hippoboscidæ, which lives upon the stag and in usually wingless. The same species lives also upon the European grouse, but in that case has wings. STAG Stag, v. i. (Com.) Defn: To act as a "stag", or irregular dealer in stocks. [Cant] STAG Stag, v. t. Defn: To watch; to dog, or keep track of. [Prov. Eng. or Slang] H. Kingsley. STAGE Stage, n. Etym: [OF. estage, F. étage, (assumed) LL. staticum, from L. stare to stand. See Stand, and cf. Static.] 1. A floor or story of a house. [Obs.] Wyclif. 2. An elevated platform on which an orator may speak, a play be performed, an exhibition be presented, or the like. 3. A floor elevated for the convenience of mechanical work, or the like; a scaffold; a staging. 4. A platform, often floating, serving as a kind of wharf. 5. The floor for scenic performances; hence, the theater; the playhouse; hence, also, the profession of representing dramatic compositions; the drama, as acted or exhibited. Knights, squires, and steeds, must enter on the stage. Pope. Lo! Where the stage, the poor, degraded stage, Holds its warped mirror to a gaping age. C. Sprague. 6. A place where anything is publicly exhibited; the scene of any noted action or carrer; the spot where any remarkable affair occurs. When we are born, we cry that we are come To this stage of fools. Shak. Music and ethereal mirth Wherewith the stage of air and earth did ring. Miton. 7. The platform of a microscope, upon which an object is placed to be viewed. See Illust. of Microscope. 8. A place of rest on a regularly traveled road; a stage house; a station; a place appointed for a relay of horses. 9. A degree of advancement in a journey; one of several portions into which a road or course is marked off; the distance between two places of rest on a road; as, a stage of ten miles. A stage . . . signifies a certain distance on a road. Jeffrey. He traveled by gig, with his wife, his favorite horse performing the journey by easy stages. Smiles. 10. A degree of advancement in any pursuit, or of progress toward an end or result. Such a polity is suited only to a particular stage in the progress of society. Macaulay. 11. A large vehicle running from station to station for the accomodation of the public; a stagecoach; an omnibus. "A parcel sent you by the stage." Cowper. I went in the sixpenny stage. Swift. 12. (Biol.) Defn: One of several marked phases or periods in the development and growth of many animals and plants; as, the larval stage; pupa stage; zoea stage. Stage box, a box close to the stage in a theater. -- Stage carriage, a stagecoach. -- Stage door, the actor's and workmen's entrance to a theater. -- Stage lights, the lights by which the stage in a theater is illuminated. -- Stage micrometer, a graduated device applied to the stage of a microscope for measuring the size of an object. -- Stage wagon, a wagon which runs between two places for conveying passengers or goods. -- Stage whisper, a loud whisper, as by an actor in a theater, supposed, for dramatic effect, to be unheard by one or more of his fellow actors, yet audible to the audience; an aside. stage of the game, [Colloq.] stage n. 10. STAGE Stage, v. t. Defn: To exhibit upon a stage, or as upon a stage; to display publicly. Shak. STAGECOACH Stage"coach`, n. Defn: A coach that runs regularly from one stage, station, or place to another, for the conveyance of passengers. STAGECOACHMAN Stage"coach`man, n.; pl. Stagecoachmen (. Defn: One who drives a stagecoach. STAGE DIRECTOR Stage director. (Theat.) Defn: One who prepares a play for production. He arranges the details of the stage settings, the business to be used, all stage effects, and instructs the actors, excepting usually the star, in the general interpretation of their parts. STAGE FRIGHT Stage fright. Defn: Nervousness felt before an audience. STAGEHOUSE Stage"house`, n. Defn: A house where a stage regularly stops for passengers or a relay of horses. STAGELY Stage"ly, a. Defn: Pertaining to a stage; becoming the theater; theatrical. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor. STAGE MANAGER Stage manager. (Theat.) Defn: One in control of the stage during the production of a play. He directs the stage hands, property man, etc., has charge of all details behind the curtain, except the acting, and has a general oversight of the actors. Sometimes he is also the stage director. STAGEPLAY Stage"play`, n. Defn: A dramatic or theatrical entertainment. Dryden. STAGEPLAYER Stage"play`er, n. Defn: An actor on the stage; one whose occupation is to represent characters on the stage; as, Garrick was a celebrated stageplayer. STAGER Sta"ger, n. 1. A player. [R.] B. Jonson. 2. One who has long acted on the stage of life; a practitioner; a person of experience, or of skill derived from long experience. "You will find most of the old stagers still stationary there." Sir W. Scott. 3. A horse used in drawing a stage. [Colloq.] STAGERY Sta"ger*y, n. Defn: Exhibition on the stage. [Obs.] STAGE-STRUCK Stage"-struck`, a. Defn: Fascinated by the stage; seized by a passionate desire to become an actor. STAG-EVIL Stag"-e`vil, n. (Far.) Defn: A kind of palsy affecting the jaw of a horse. Crabb. STAGGARD Stag"gard, n. Etym: [From Stag.] (Zoöl.) Defn: The male red deer when four years old. STAGGER Stag"ger, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Staggered; p. pr. & vb. n. Staggering.] Etym: [OE. stakeren, Icel. stakra to push, to stagger, fr. staka to punt, push, stagger; cf. OD. staggeren to stagger. Cf. Stake, n.] 1. To move to one side and the other, as if about to fall, in standing or walking; not to stand or walk with steadiness; to sway; to reel or totter. Deep was the wound; he staggered with the blow. Dryden. 2. To cease to stand firm; to begin to give way; to fail. "The enemy staggers." Addison. 3. To begin to doubt and waver in purposes; to become less confident or determined; to hesitate. He [Abraham] staggered not at the promise of God through unbelief. Rom. iv. 20. STAGGER Stag"ger, v. t. 1. To cause to reel or totter. That hand shall burn in never-quenching fire That staggers thus my person. Shak. 2. To cause to doubt and waver; to make to hesitate; to make less steady or confident; to shock. Whosoever will read the story of this war will find himself much stagered. Howell. Grants to the house of Russell were so enormous, as not only to outrage economy, but even to stagger credibility. Burke. 3. To arrange (a series of parts) on each side of a median line alternately, as the spokes of a wheel or the rivets of a boiler seam. STAGGER Stag"ger, n. 1. An unsteady movement of the body in walking or standing, as if one were about to fall; a reeling motion; vertigo; -- often in the plural; as, the stagger of a drunken man. 2. pl. (Far.) Defn: A disease of horses and