[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

8. (a) A young oyster when first attached. (b) Collectively, the crop of young oysters in any locality. 9. (Tennis) Defn: A series of as many games as may be necessary to enable one side to win six. If at the end of the tenth game the score is a tie, the set is usually called a deuce set, and decided by an application of the rules for playing off deuce in a game. See Deuce. 10. (Type Founding) Defn: That dimension of the body of a type called by printers the width. Dead set. (a) The act of a setter dog when it discovers the game, and remains intently fixed in pointing it out. (b) A fixed or stationary condition arising from obstacle or hindrance; a deadlock; as, to be at a dead set. (c) A concerted scheme to defraud by gaming; a determined onset. -- To make a dead set, to make a determined onset, literally or figuratively. Syn. -- Collection; series; group. See Pair. SETA Se"ta, n.; pl. Setæ. Etym: [L. seta, saeta, a bristle.] 1. (Biol.) Defn: Any slender, more or less rigid, bristlelike organ or part; as the hairs of a caterpillar, the slender spines of a crustacean, the hairlike processes of a protozoan, the bristles or stiff hairs on the leaves of some plants, or the pedicel of the capsule of a moss. 2. (Zoöl.) (a) One of the movable chitinous spines or hooks of an annelid. They usually arise in clusters from muscular capsules, and are used in locomotion and for defense. They are very diverse in form. (b) One of the spinelike feathers at the base of the bill of certain birds. SETACEOUS Se*ta"ceous, a. Etym: [L. seta a bristle: cf. F. sétacé.] 1. Set with, or consisting of, bristles; bristly; as, a stiff, setaceous tail. 2. Bristelike in form or texture; as, a setaceous feather; a setaceous leaf. SETBACK Set"back`, n. 1. (Arch.) Defn: Offset, n., 4. 2. A backset; a countercurrent; an eddy. [U. S.] 3. A backset; a check; a repulse; a reverse; a relapse. [Colloq. U.S.] SETBOLT Set"bolt`, n. (Shipbuilding) 1. An iron pin, or bolt, for fitting planks closely together. Craig. 2. A bolt used for forcing another bolt out of its hole. SET CHISEL Set chisel. (Mech.) Defn: A kind of chisel or punch, variously shaped, with a broad flat end, used for stripping off rivet heads, etc. SETDOWN Set"down`, n. Defn: The humbling of a person by act or words, especially by a retort or a reproof; the retort or the reproof which has such effect. SETEE Set*ee", n. (Naut.) Defn: See 2d Settee. SETEN Set"en, Defn: obs. imp. pl. of Sit. Sat. Chaucer. SETEWALE Set"e*wale, n. Defn: See Cetewale. [Obs.] SET-FAIR Set"-fair`, n. Defn: In plastering, a particularly good troweled surface. Knight. SETFOIL Set"foil`, n. Defn: See Septfoil. SETHEN Seth"en, adv. & conj. Defn: See Since. [Obs.] SETHIC Seth"ic, a. Defn: See Sothic. SETIFEROUS Se*tif"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. seta a bristle + -ferous.] Defn: Producing, or having one or more, bristles. SETIFORM Se"ti*form, a. Etym: [Seta + -form: cf. F. sétiforme.] Defn: Having the form or structure of setæ. SETIGER Se"ti*ger, n. Etym: [NL. See Setigerous.] (Zoöl.) Defn: An annelid having setæ; a chætopod. SETIGEROUS Se*tig"er*ous, a. Etym: [Seta + -gerous.] Defn: Covered with bristles; having or bearing a seta or setæ; setiferous; as, setigerous glands; a setigerous segment of an annelid; specifically (Bot.), tipped with a bristle. SETIM Se"tim, n. Defn: See Shittim. SETIPAROUS Se*tip"a*rous, a. Etym: [Seta + L. papere to produce.] (Zoöl.) Defn: Producing setæ; -- said of the organs from which the setæ of annelids arise. SETIREME Se"ti*reme, n. Etym: [Seta + L. remus an oar.] (Zoöl.) Defn: A swimming leg (of an insect) having a fringe of hairs on the margin. SETNESS Set"ness, n. Defn: The quality or state of being set; formality; obstinacy. "The starched setness of a sententious writer." R. Masters. SET-OFF Set"-off`, n. Etym: [Set + off.] 1. That which is set off against another thing; an offset. I do not contemplate such a heroine as a set-off to the many sins imputed to me as committed against woman. D. Jerrold. 2. That which is used to improve the appearance of anything; a decoration; an ornament. 3. (Law) Defn: A counterclaim; a cross debt or demand; a distinct claim filed or set up by the defendant against the plaintiff's demand. Note: Set-off differs from recoupment, as the latter generally grows out of the same matter or contract with the plaintiff's claim, while the former grows out of distinct matter, and does not of itself deny the justice of the plaintiff's demand. Offset is sometimes improperly used for the legal term set-off. See Recoupment. 4. (Arch.) Defn: Same as Offset, n., 4. 5. (Print.) Defn: See Offset, 7. Syn. -- Set-off, Offset. -- Offset originally denoted that which branches off or projects, as a shoot from a tree, but the term has long been used in America in the sense of set-off. This use is beginning to obtain in England; though Macaulay uses set-off, and so, perhaps, do a majority of English writers. SETON Se"ton, n. Etym: [F. séton (cf. It. setone), from L. seta a thick, stiff hair, a bristle.] (Med. & Far.) Defn: A few silk threads or horsehairs, or a strip of linen or the like, introduced beneath the skin by a knife or needle, so as to form an issue; also, the issue so formed. SETOSE; SETOUS Se*tose", Se"tous, a. Etym: [L. setosus, saetosus, from seta, saeta, bristle: cf. F. séteux.] Defn: Thickly set with bristles or bristly hairs. SETOUT Set"out`, n. Defn: A display, as of plate, equipage, etc.; that which is displayed. [Coloq.] Dickens. SET-STITCHED Set"-stitched`, a. Defn: Stitched according to a formal pattern. "An old set-stiched chair, valanced, and fringed with party-colored worsted bobs." Sterne. SETT Sett, n. Defn: See Set, n., 2 (e) and 3. SETTEE Set*tee", n. Etym: [From Set; cf. Settle a seat.] Defn: A long seat with a back, -- made to accommodate several persons at once. SETTEE Set*tee", n. Etym: [F. scétie, scitie.] (Naut.) Defn: A vessel with a very long, sharp prow, carrying two or three masts with lateen sails, -- used in the Mediterranean. [Written also setee.] SETTER Set"ter, n. 1. One who, or that which, sets; -- used mostly in composition with a noun, as typesetter; or in combination with an adverb, as a setter on (or inciter), a setter up, a setter forth. 2. (Zoöl.) Defn: A hunting dog of a special breed originally derived from a cross between the spaniel and the pointer. Modern setters are usually trained to indicate the position of game birds by standing in a fixed position, but originally they indicated it by sitting or crouching. Note: There are several distinct varieties of setters; as, the Irish, or red, setter; the Gordon setter, which is usually red or tan varied with black; and the English setter, which is variously colored, but usually white and tawny red, with or without black. 3. One who hunts victims for sharpers. Shak. 4. One who adapts words to music in composition. 5. An adornment; a decoration; -- with off. [Obs.] They come as . . . setters off of thy graces. Whitlock. 6. (Pottery) Defn: A shallow seggar for porcelain. Ure. SETTER Set"ter, v. t. Defn: To cut the dewlap (of a cow or an ox), and to insert a seton, so as to cause an issue. [Prov. Eng.] SETTERWORT Set"ter*wort`, n. (Bot.) Defn: The bear's-foot (Helleborus foetidus); -- so called because the root was used in settering, or inserting setons into the dewlaps of cattle. Called also pegroots. Dr. Prior. SETTING Set"ting, n. 1. The act of one who, or that which, sets; as, the setting of type, or of gems; the setting of the sun; the setting (hardening) of moist plaster of Paris; the setting (set) of a current. 2. The act of marking the position of game, as a setter does; also, hunting with a setter. Boyle. 3. Something set in, or inserted. Thou shalt set in it settings of stones. Ex. xxviii. 17. 4. That in which something, as a gem, is set; as, the gold setting of a jeweled pin. Setting coat (Arch.), the finishing or last coat of plastering on walls or ceilings. -- Setting dog, a setter. See Setter, n., 2. -- Setting pole, a pole, often iron-pointed, used for pushing boats along in shallow water. -- Setting rule. (Print.) A composing rule. SETTING-UP EXERCISE Set`ting-up" ex"er*cise. Defn: Any one of a series of gymnastic exercises used, as in drilling recruits, for the purpose of giving an erect carriage, supple muscles, and an easy control of the limbs. SETTLE Set"tle, n. Etym: [OE. setel, setil, a seat, AS. setl: akin to OHG. sezzal, G. sessel, Goth. sitls, and E. sit. sq. root154. See Sit.] 1. A seat of any kind. [Obs.] "Upon the settle of his majesty" Hampole. 2. A bench; especially, a