[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

Provided with prey. Now I am bravely quarried. Beau. & Fl. QUARRIER Quar"ri*er, n. Defn: A worker in a stone quarry. QUARRY Quar"ry, n. Etym: [OE. quarre, OF. quarré square, F. carré, from L. quadratus square, quadrate, quadratum a square. See Quadrate, and cf. Quarrel an arrow.] Defn: Same as 1st Quarrel. [Obs.] Fairfax. QUARRY Quar"ry, a. Etym: [OF. quarré.] Defn: Quadrate; square. [Obs.] QUARRY Quar"ry, n.; pl. Quarries. Etym: [OE. querre, OF. cuiriée, F. curée, fr. cuir hide, leather, fr. L. corium; the quarry given to the dogs being wrapped in the akin of the beast. See Cuirass.] 1. (a) A part of the entrails of the beast taken, given to the hounds. (b) A heap of game killed. 2. The object of the chase; the animal hunted for; game; especially, the game hunted with hawks. "The stone-dead quarry." Spenser. The wily quarry shunned the shock. Sir W. Scott. QUARRY Quar"ry, v. i. Defn: To secure prey; to prey, as a vulture or harpy. L'Estrange. QUARRY Quar"ry, n. Etym: [OE. quarrere, OF. quariere, F. carrière, LL. quadraria a quarry, whence squared (quadrati) stones are dug, fr. quadratus square. See Quadrate.] Defn: A place, cavern, or pit where stone is taken from the rock or ledge, or dug from the earth, for building or other purposes; a stone pit. See 5th Mine (a). QUARRY Quar"ry, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Quarried; p. pr. & vb. n. Quarrying.] Defn: To dig or take from a quarry; as, to quarry marble. QUARRY-FACED Quar"ry-faced`, a. (Stone Masonry) Defn: Having a face left as it comes from the quarry and not smoothed with the chisel or point; -- said of stones. QUARRY-MAN Quar"ry-man, n.; pl. Quarrymen (. Defn: A man who is engaged in quarrying stones; a quarrier. QUART Quart, n. Etym: [F. quart, n. masc., fr. L. quartus the fourth, akin to quattuor four. See Four, and cf. 2d Carte, Quarto.] Defn: The fourth part; a quarter; hence, a region of the earth. [Obs.] Camber did possess the western quart. Spenser. QUART Quart, n. Etym: [F. quarte, n. fem., fr. quart fourth. See Quart a quarter.] 1. A measure of capacity, both in dry and in liquid measure; the fourth part of a gallon; the eighth part of a peck; two pints. Note: In imperial measure, a quart is forty English fluid ounces; in wine measure, it is thirty-two American fluid ounces. The United States dry quart contains 67.20 cubic inches, the fluid quart 57.75. The English quart contains 69.32 cubic inches. 2. A vessel or measure containing a quart. QUART Quart, n. Etym: [See Quart a quarter.] Defn: In cards, four successive cards of the same suit. Cf. Tierce, 4. Hoyle. QUARTAN Quar"tan, a. Etym: [F. quartain, in fièvre quartaine, L. quartanus, fr. quartus the fourth. See Quart.] Defn: Of or pertaining to the fourth; occurring every fourth day, reckoning inclusively; as, a quartan ague, or fever. QUARTAN Quar"tan, n. 1. (Med.) Defn: An intermittent fever which returns every fourth day, reckoning inclusively, that is, one in which the interval between paroxysms is two days. 2. A measure, the fourth part of some other measure. QUARTANE Quar"tane, n. Etym: [L. quartus the fourth.] (Chem.) Defn: Butane, each molecule of which has four carbon atoms. QUARTATION Quar*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. quartus the fourth: cf. F. quartation. So called because usually enough silver is added to make the amount of gold in the alloyed button about one fourth.] (Chem. & Assaying) Defn: The act, process, or result (in the process of parting) of alloying a button of nearly pure gold with enough silver to reduce the fineness so as to allow acids to attack and remove all metals except the gold; -- called also inquartation. Compare Parting. QUARTE Quarte, n. Etym: [F.] Defn: Same as 2d Carte. QUARTENE Quar"tene, n. Etym: [Ouartane + ethylene.] (Chem.) Defn: Same as Butylene. QUARTENYLIC Quar"ten*yl"ic, a. Etym: [Quartene + -yl + -ic.] (Chem.) Defn: Pertaining to, or designating, an acid of the acrylic acid series, metameric with crotonic acid, and obtained as a colorless liquid; -- so called from having four carbon atoms in the molecule. Called also isocrotonic acid. QUARTER Quar"ter, n. Etym: [F. quartier, L. quartarius a fourth part, fr. quartus the fourth. See Quart.] 1. One of four equal parts into which anything is divided, or is regarded as divided; a fourth part or portion; as, a quarter of a dollar, of a pound, of a yard, of an hour, etc. Hence, specifically: (a) The fourth of a hundred-weight, being 25 or 28 pounds, according as the hundredweight is reckoned at 100 or 112 pounds. (b) The fourth of a ton in weight, or eight bushels of grain; as, a quarter of wheat; also, the fourth part of a chaldron of coal. Hutton. (c) (Astron.) The fourth part of the moon's period, or monthly revolution; as, the first quarter after the change or full. (d) One limb of a quadruped with the adjacent parts; one fourth part of the carcass of a slaughtered animal, including a leg; as, the fore quarters; the hind quarters. (e) That part of a boot or shoe which forms the side, from the heel to the vamp. (f) (Far.) That part on either side of a horse's hoof between the toe and heel, being the side of the coffin. (g) A term of study in a seminary, college, etc, etc.; properly, a fourth part of the year, but often longer or shorter. (h) pl. (Mil.) Defn: The encampment on one of the principal passages round a place besieged, to prevent relief and intercept convoys. (i) (Naut.) The after-part of a vessel's side, generally corresponding in extent with the quarter-deck; also, the part of the yardarm outside of the slings. (j) (Her.) One of the divisions of an escutcheon when it is divided into four portions by a horizontal and a perpendicular line meeting in the fess point. Note: When two coats of arms are united upon one escutcheon, as in case of marriage, the first and fourth quarters display one shield, the second and third the other. See Quarter, v. t., 5. (k) One of the four parts into which the horizon is regarded as divided; a cardinal point; a direction' principal division; a region; a territory. Scouts each coast light-armed scour, Each quarter, to descry the distant foe. Milton. (l) A division of a town, city, or county; a particular district; a locality; as, the Latin quarter in Paris. (m) (Arch.) A small upright timber post, used in partitions; -- in the United States more commonly called stud. (n) (Naut.) The fourth part of the distance from one point of the compass to another, being the fourth part of 11° 15', that is, about 2° 49'; -- called also quarter point. 2. Proper station; specific place; assigned position; special location. Swift to their several quarters hasted then The cumbrous elements. Milton. Hence, specifically: (a) (Naut.) A station at which officers and men are posted in battle; -- usually in the plural. (b) Place of lodging or temporary residence; shelter; entertainment; -- usually in the plural. The banter turned as to what quarters each would find. W. Irving. (c) pl. (Mil.) Defn: A station or encampment occupied by troops; a place of lodging for soldiers or officers; as, winter quarters. (d) Treatment shown by an enemy; mercy; especially, the act of sparing the life a conquered enemy; a refraining from pushing one's advantage to extremes. He magnified his own clemency, now they were at his mercy, to offer them quarter for their lives. Clarendon. Cocks and lambs . . . at the mercy of cats and wolves . . . must never expect better quarter. L'Estrange. 3. Friendship; amity; concord. [Obs.] To keep quarter, to keep one's proper place, and so be on good terms with another. [Obs.] In quarter, and in terms like bride and groom. Shak. I knew two that were competitors for the secretary's place, . . . and yet kept good quarter between themselves. Bacon. False quarter, a cleft in the quarter of a horse's foot. -- Fifth quarter, the hide and fat; -- a butcher's term. -- On the quarter (Naut.), in a direction between abeam and astern; opposite, or nearly opposite, a vessel's quarter. -- Quarter aspect. (Astrol.) Same as Quadrate. -- Quarter back (Football), the player who has position next behind center rush, and receives the ball on the snap back. -- Quarter badge (Naut.), an ornament on the side of a vessel near, the stern. Mar. Dict. -- Quarter bill (Naut.), a list specifying the different stations to be taken by the officers and crew in time of action, and the names of the men assigned to each. -- Quarter block (Naut.), a block fitted under the quarters of a yard on each side of the slings, through which the clew lines and sheets are reeved. R. H. Dana, Jr. -- Quarter boat (Naut.), a boat hung at a vessel's quarter.