[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

States in the Union. [U.S.] NATIONALISM Na"tion*al*ism, n. 1. The state of being national; national attachment; nationality. 2. An idiom, trait, or character peculiar to any nation. 3. National independence; the principles of the Nationalists. NATIONALIST Na"tion*al*ist, n. Defn: One who advocates national unity and independence; one of a party favoring Irish independence. NATIONALITY Na`tion*al"i*ty, n.; pl. Nationalities. Etym: [Cf. F. nationalité.] 1. The quality of being national, or strongly attached to one's own nation; patriotism. 2. The sum of the qualities which distinguish a nation; national character. 3. A race or people, as determined by common language and character, and not by political bias or divisions; a nation. the fulfillment of his mission is to be looked for in the condition of nationalities and the character of peoples. H. W. Beecher. 4. Existence as a distinct or individual nation; national unity and integrity. 5. The state or quality of belonging to or being connected with a nation or government by nativity, character, ownership, allegiance, etc. NATIONALIZATION Na`tion*al*i*za"tion, n. Defn: The act of nationalizing, or the state of being nationalized. NATIONALIZE Na"tion*al*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Nationalized; p. pr. & vb. n. Nationalizing.] Etym: [Cf. F. nationaliser.] Defn: To make national; to make a nation of; to endow with the character and habits of a nation, or the peculiar sentiments and attachment of citizens of a nation. NATIONALLY Na"tion*al*ly, adv. Defn: In a national manner or way; as a nation. "The jews ... being nationally espoused to God by covenant." South. NATIONALNESS Na"tion*al*ness, n. Defn: The quality or state of being national; nationality. Johnson. NATIONALRATH Na`ti*o*nal"rath`, n. [G.] (Switzerland) Defn: See Legislature. NATIVE Na"tive, a. Etym: [F. natif, L. nativus, fr. nasci, p.p. natus. See Nation, and cf. Naïve, Nelf a serf.] 1. Arising by birth; having an origin; born. [Obs.] Anaximander's opinion is, that the gods are native, rising and vanishing again in long periods of times. Cudworth. 2. Of or pertaining to one's birth; natal; belonging to the place or the circumstances in which one is born; -- opposed to foreign; as, native land, language, color, etc. 3. Born in the region in which one lives; as, a native inhabitant, race; grown or originating in the region where used or sold; not foreign or imported; as, native oysters, or strawberries. 4. Original; constituting the original substance of anything; as, native dust. Milton. 5. Conferred by birth; derived from origin; born with one; inherent; inborn; not acquired; as, native genius, cheerfulness, simplicity, rights, etc. Courage is native to you. Jowett (Thucyd. ). 6. Naturally related; cognate; connected (with). [R.] the head is not more native to the heart, ... Than is the throne of Denmark to thy father. Shak. 7. (Min.) (a) Found in nature uncombined with other elements; as, native silver. (b) Found in nature; not artificial; as native sodium chloride. Native American party. See under American, a. -- Native bear (Zoöl.), the koala. -- Native bread (Bot.), a large underground fungus, of Australia (Mylitta australis), somewhat resembling a truffle, but much larger. -- Native devil. (Zoöl.) Same as Tasmanian devil, under Devil. -- Native hen (Zoöl.), an Australian rail (Tribonyx Mortierii). -- Native pheasant. (Zoöl.) See Leipoa. -- Native rabbit (Zoöl.), an Australian marsupial (Perameles lagotis) resembling a rabbit in size and form. -- Native sloth (Zoöl.), the koala. -- Native thrush (Zoöl.), an Australian singing bird (Pachycephala olivacea); -- called also thickhead. -- Native turkey (Zoöl.), the Australian bustard (Choriotis australis); -- called also bebilya. Syn. -- Natural; natal; original; congential. -- Native, Natural, Natal. natural refers to the nature of a thing, or that which springs therefrom; native, to one's birth or origin; as, a native country, language, etc.; natal, to the circumstances of one's birth; as, a natal day, or star. Native talent is that which is inborn; natural talent is that which springs from the structure of the mind. Native eloquence is the result of strong innate emotion; natural eloquence is opposed to that which is studied or artifical. NATIVE Na"tive, n. 1. One who, or that which, is born in a place or country referred to; a denizen by birth; an animal, a fruit, or vegetable, produced in a certain region; as, a native of France. 2. (Stock Breeding) Defn: Any of the live stock found in a region, as distinguished from such as belong to pure and distinct imported breeds. [U.S.] NATIVELY Na"tive*ly, adv. Defn: By natural or original condition; naturally; originally. NATIVENESS Na"tive*ness, n. Defn: The quality or state of being native. NATIVE STEEL Na"tive steel. Defn: A sort of steel which has been found where a burning coal seam had reduced and carbonized adjacent iron ore. NATIVISM Na"tiv*ism, n. 1. The disposition to favor the native inhabitants of a country, in preference to immigrants from foreign countries. 2. (Philos.) Defn: The doctrine of innate ideas, or that the mind possesses forms of thought independent of sensation. NATIVIST Na"tiv*ist, n. Defn: An advocate of nativism. NATIVISTIC Na`tiv*is"tic, a. Defn: Relating to nativism. NATIVITY Na*tiv"i*ty, n.; pl. Nativies. Etym: [F. nativité, L. nativitas. See Native, and cf. NaïvetÉ.] 1. The coming into life or into the world; birth; also, the circumstances attending birth, as time, place, manner, etc. Chaucer. I have served him from the hour of my nativity. Shak. Thou hast left ... the land of thy nativity. Ruth ii. 11. These in their dark nativity the deep Shall yield us, pregnant with infernal flame. Milton. 2. (Fine Arts) Defn: A picture representing or symbolizing the early infancy of Christ. The simplest form is the babe in a rude cradle, and the heads of an ox and an ass to express the stable in which he was born. 3. (Astrol.) Defn: A representation of the positions of the heavenly bodies as the moment of one's birth, supposed to indicate his future destinies; a horoscope. The Nativity, the birth or birthday of Christ; Christmas day. -- To cast, or calculate, one's nativity (Astrol.), to find out and represent the position of the heavenly bodies at the time of one's birth. NATKA Nat"ka, a. (Zoöl.) Defn: A species of shrike. NATRIUM Na"tri*um, n. Etym: [NL. See Natron.] (Chem.) Defn: The technical name for sodium. NATROLITE Na"tro*lite, n. Etym: [Natron + -lite: cf. F. natrolithe.] (Min.) Defn: A zeolite occuring in groups of glassy acicular crystals, and in masses which often have a radiated structure. It is a hydrous silicate of alumina and soda. NATRON Na"tron, n. Etym: [F., fr. Sp. natron, Ar. natrun, nitrun. Cf. Niter, Anatron.] (Min.) Defn: Native sodium carbonate. [Written also anatron.] NATTER Nat"ter, v. i. Etym: [Cf. Icel. knetta to grumble.] Defn: To find fault; to be peevish. [Prov. Eng. or Scot.] NATTERJACK Nat"ter*jack`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: A European toad (Bufo calamita), having a yellow line along its back. NATTY Nat"ty, a. Etym: [Cf. Neat clean.] Defn: Neat; tidy; spruce. [Colloq.] -- Nat"ti*ly, adv. -- Nat"ti*ness, n. NATURAL Nat"u*ral, a. Etym: [OE. naturel, F. naturel, fr. L. naturalis, fr. natura. See Nature.] 1. Fixed or determined by nature; pertaining to the constitution of a thing; belonging to native character; according to nature; essential; characteristic; not artifical, foreign, assumed, put on, or acquired; as, the natural growth of animals or plants; the natural motion of a gravitating body; natural strength or disposition; the natural heat of the body; natural color. With strong natural sense, and rare force of will. Macaulay. 2. Conformed to the order, laws, or actual facts, of nature; consonant to the methods of nature; according to the stated course of things, or in accordance with the laws which govern events, feelings, etc.; not exceptional or violent; legitimate; normal; regular; as, the natural consequence of crime; a natural death. What can be more natural than the circumstances in the behavior of those women who had lost their husbands on this fatal day Addison. 3. Having to do with existing system to things; dealing with, or derived from, the creation, or the world of matter and mind, as known by man; within the scope of human reason or experience; not supernatural; as, a natural law; natural science; history, theology. I call that natural religion which men might know ... by the mere principles of reason, improved by consideration and experience, without the help of revelation. Bp. Wilkins. 4. Conformed to truth or reality; as: (a) Springing from true sentiment; not artifical or exaggerated; -- said of action, delivery, etc.; as, a natural gesture, tone, etc. (b) Resembling the object imitated; true to nature; according to the life; -- said of anything copied or imitated; as, a portrait is natural. 5. Having the character or sentiments properly belonging to one's position; not unnatural in feelings. To leave his wife, to leave his babes, ... He wants the natural touch. Shak. 6. Connected by the ties of consanguinity. "Natural friends." J. H. Newman. 7. Begotten without the sanction of law; born out of wedlock; illegitimate; bastard; as, a natural child. 8. Of or pertaining to the lower or