[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

depends on the different tastes individuals. 3. Definitely laid down; explicitly stated; clearly expressed; -- opposed to implied; as, a positive declaration or promise. Positive words, that he would not bear arms against King Edward's son. Bacon. 4. Hence: Not admitting of any doubt, condition, qualification, or discretion; not dependent on circumstances or probabilities; not speculative; compelling assent or obedience; peremptory; indisputable; decisive; as, positive instructions; positive truth; positive proof. "'T is positive 'gainst all exceptions." Shak. 5. Prescribed by express enactment or institution; settled by arbitrary appointment; said of laws. In laws, that which is natural bindeth universally; that which is positive, not so. Hooker. 6. Fully assured; confident; certain; sometimes, overconfident; dogmatic; overbearing; -- said of persons. Some positive, persisting fops we know, That, if once wrong, will needs be always. Pope. 7. Having the power of direct action or influence; as, a positive voice in legislation. Swift. 8. (Photog.) Defn: Corresponding with the original in respect to the position of lights and shades, instead of having the lights and shades reversed; as, a positive picture. 9. (Chem.) (a) Electro-positive. (b) Hence, basic; metallic; not acid; -- opposed to negative, and said of metals, bases, and basic radicals. Positive crystals (Opt.), a doubly refracting crystal in which the index of refraction for the extraordinary ray is greater than for the ordinary ray, and the former is refracted nearer to the axis than the latter, as quartz and ice; -- opposed to negative crystal, or one in which this characteristic is reversed, as Iceland spar, tourmaline, etc. -- Positive degree (Gram.), that state of an adjective or adverb which denotes simple quality, without comparison or relation to increase or diminution; as, wise, noble. -- Positive electricity (Elec), the kind of electricity which is developed when glass is rubbed with silk, or which appears at that pole of a voltaic battery attached to the plate that is not attacked by the exciting liquid; -- formerly called vitreous electricity; -- opposed to Ant: negative electricity. -- Positive eyepiece. See under Eyepiece. -- Positive law. See Municipal law, under Law. -- Positive motion (Mach.), motion which is derived from a driver through unyielding intermediate pieces, or by direct contact, and not through elastic connections, nor by means of friction, gravity, etc.; definite motion. -- Positive philosophy. See Positivism. -- Positive pole. (a) (Elec.) The pole of a battery or pile which yields positive or vitreous electricity; -- opposed to Ant: negative pole. (b) (Magnetism) The north pole. [R.] -- Positive quantity (Alg.), an affirmative quantity, or one affected by the sign plus [+]. -- Positive rotation (Mech.), left-handed rotation. -- Positive sign (Math.), the sign [+] denoting plus, or more, or addition. POSITIVE Pos"i*tive, n. 1. That which is capable of being affirmed; reality. South. 2. That which settles by absolute appointment. 3. (Gram.) Defn: The positive degree or form. 4. (Photog.) Defn: A picture in which the lights and shades correspond in position with those of the original, instead of being reversed, as in a negative. R. Hunt. 5. (Elec.) Defn: The positive plate of a voltaic or electrolytic cell. POSITIVELY Pos"i*tive*ly, adv. Defn: In a positive manner; absolutely; really; expressly; with certainty; indubitably; peremptorily; dogmatically; -- opposed to negatively. Good and evil which is removed may be esteemed good or evil comparatively, and positively simply. Bacon. Give me some breath, some little pause, my lord, Before I positively speak herein. Shak. I would ask . . . whether . . . the divine law does not positively require humility and meekness. Sprat. Positively charged or electrified (Elec.), having a charge of positive electricity; -- opposed to Ant: negatively electrified. POSITIVENESS Pos"i*tive*ness, n. Defn: The quality or state of being positive; reality; actualness; certainty; confidence; peremptoriness; dogmatism. See Positive, a. Positiveness, pedantry, and ill manners. Swift. The positiveness of sins of commission lies both in the habitude of the will and in the executed act too; the positiveness of sins of omission is in the habitude of the will only. Norris. POSITIVISM Pos"i*tiv*ism, n. Defn: A system of philosophy originated by M. Auguste Comte, which deals only with positives. It excludes from philosophy everything but the natural phenomena or properties of knowable things, together with their invariable relations of coexistence and succession, as occurring in time and space. Such relations are denominated laws, which are to be discovered by observation, experiment, and comparison. This philosophy holds all inquiry into causes, both efficient and final, to be useless and unprofitable. POSITIVIST Pos"i*tiv*ist, n. Defn: A believer in positivism. -- a. Defn: Relating to positivism. POSITIVITY Pos`i*tiv"i*ty, n. Defn: Positiveness. J. Morley. POSITURE Pos"i*ture, n. Defn: See Posture. [Obs.] POSNET Pos"net, n. Etym: [OF. poçonet, dim. of poçon a pot, a vessel.] Defn: A little basin; a porringer; a skillet. POSOLOGIC; POSOLOGICAL Pos`o*log"ic, Pos`o*log"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. posologique.] Defn: Pertaining to posology. POSOLOGY Po*sol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -logy: cf. F. posologie.] (Med.) Defn: The science or doctrine of doses; dosology. POSPOLITE Pos"po*lite, n. Etym: [Pol. pospolite ruszenie a general summons to arms, an arriere-ban; pospolity general + ruszenie a stirring.] Defn: A kind of militia in Poland, consisting of the gentry, which, in case of invasion, was summoned to the defense of the country. POSS Poss, v. t. Etym: [See Push.] Defn: To push; to dash; to throw. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] A cat . . . possed them [the rats] about. Piers Plowman. POSSE Pos"se, n. Defn: See Posse comitatus. In posse. See In posse in the Vocabulary. POSSE COMITATUS Pos"se com`i*ta"tus. Etym: [L. posse to be able, to have power + LL. comitatus a county, from comes, comitis, a count. See County, and Power.] 1. (Law) Defn: The power of the county, or the citizens who may be summoned by the sheriff to assist the authorities in suppressing a riot, or executing any legal precept which is forcibly opposed. Blackstone. 2. A collection of people; a throng; a rabble. [Colloq.] Note: The word comitatus is often omitted, and posse alone used. "A whole posse of enthusiasts." Carlyle. As if the passion that rules were the sheriff of the place, and came off with all the posse. Locke. POSSESS Pos*sess", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Possessed; p. pr. & vb. n. Possessing.] Etym: [L. possessus, p. p. of possidere to have, possess, from an inseparable prep. (cf. Position) + sedere to sit. See Sit.] 1. To occupy in person; to hold or actually have in one's own keeping; to have and to hold. Houses and fields and vineyards shall be possessed again in this land. Jer. xxxii. 15. Yet beauty, though injurious, hath strange power, After offense returning, to regain Love once possessed. Milton. 2. To have the legal title to; to have a just right to; to be master of; to own; to have; as, to possess property, an estate, a book. I am yours, and all that I possess. Shak. 3. To obtain occupation or possession of; to accomplish; to gain; to seize. How . . . to possess the purpose they desired. Spenser. 4. To enter into and influence; to control the will of; to fill; to affect; -- said especially of evil spirits, passions, etc. "Weakness possesseth me." Shak. Those which were possessed with devils. Matt. iv. 24. For ten inspired, ten thousand are possessed. Roscommon. 5. To put in possession; to make the owner or holder of property, power, knowledge, etc.; to acquaint; to inform; -- followed by of or with before the thing possessed, and now commonly used reflexively. I have possessed your grace of what I purpose. Shak. Record a gift . . . of all he dies possessed Unto his son. Shak. We possessed our selves of the kingdom of Naples. Addison. To possess our minds with an habitual good intention. Addison. Syn. -- To have; hold; occupy; control; own. -- Possess, Have. Have is the more general word. To possess denotes to have as a property. It usually implies more permanence or definiteness of control or ownership than is involved in having. A man does not possess his wife and children: they are (so to speak) part of himself. For the same reason, we have the faculties of reason, understanding, will, sound judgment, etc.: they are exercises of the mind, not possessions. POSSESSION Pos*ses"sion, n. Etym: [F. possession, L. possessio.] 1. The act or state of possessing, or holding as one's own. 2. (Law) Defn: The having, holding, or detention of property in one's power or command; actual seizin or occupancy; ownership, whether rightful or wrongful. Note: Possession may be either actual or constructive; actual, when a party has the immediate occupancy; constructive, when he has only the right to such occupancy. 3. The thing possessed; that which any one occupies, owns, or controls; in the plural, property in the aggregate; wealth; dominion; as, foreign possessions. When the young man heard that saying, he went away sorrowful, for he had great possessions. Matt. xix. 22. Ananias, with Sapphira his wife, sold