[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #55148]

up the steps. He had met my father several times before, and liked him, as everyone liked him. And in the vast hall of the schloss, hung with trophies of the battle and the chase, I stood by, forgotten, whilst my father, in the midst of a group of gentlemen, stood talking to the boisterous great man, whose hard voice and tremendous personality dominated the scene. I have said that Bismarck's voice was hard. It was, but it was not a mean or commonplace voice; it was as full of force as the man, and you never forgot it, once you heard it. A large party of guests were at the schloss; and I, standing alone, felt very much alone indeed--shy, and filled with fear of the King. I was standing like this, when from the door of a great room opening upon the hall came a little figure skipping. Gay as a beam of sunshine, she came into the vast and gloomy hall. She wore a blue scarf, white dress, frilled pantalettes, and shoes with crossed straps over her tiny insteps. She glanced at me as she passed, making straight for Bismarck, whose coat she plucked at. "Another time--another time!" growled he, letting drop a hand for the sunbeam to play with whilst he continued his conversation with the others. But I noticed that, despite his hardness and seeming indifference, the big hand, with the seal-ring on the little finger, caressed the child's hand; but she wanted more than this. Swinging around, still clasping his hand, but pouting, and with a finger to her lips, her eyes rested on me. I had forgotten the King now; a flood of bashfulness overwhelmed me, and, as I stood there holding my képi in one hand, I, mesmerised by the figure in pantalettes before me, made a stiff little bow. Dropping Bismarck's hand, she made a little curtsey, and came skipping to me across the shining floor. "And you, too, are a soldier?" said she, speaking in French. "Bon jour, M. l'Officier!" "Bon jour, mademoiselle!" "My name is Eloise," said the apparition of light. "Do you like my dress?" "Oui, mademoiselle!" She pursed her lips. "Oui, mademoiselle? Oh, how dull you are! Now, if I wert thou, and thou wert I, know you what I would have said?" "Non, mademoiselle." "Non, mademoiselle! Oh, how droll you are. I would have said: 'Mademoiselle, your toilet is ravishing!' Now say it." "Mademoiselle, your toilet is ravishing." She laughed with pleasure at having made me repeat the words. Despite her conversation, she had no touch of the old-fashioned, or the pert, or the objectionable about her. Brimming over with life, pure from its source, fresh as a daisy, sparkling as a dewdrop, sweetness was written upon her brow, across that ineffable mark of purity with which God stamps His future angels. "And your name?" said she. "Patrick," I replied. "Pawthrick," said she, trying to put her small mouth round the word. "I cannot say it. I will call you Toto. Come with me," leading me by the sleeve, "and I will introduce you to my mother. She is here"--drawing towards the door of the room from whence she had come--"in here. Do you know why I call you Toto?" "Non, mademoiselle." "He was my rabbit, and he died," said Eloise, as we entered a great salon where several ladies were seated conversing. Toward one of these ladies, more beautiful in my eyes than the dawn, Eloise led me. "Maman," said she, "this is Toto." The Countess Feliciani, for that was the name of the mother of Eloise, smiled upon us. I dare say we made a quaint and pretty enough pair. She was perhaps, thirty--the Countess Feliciana, a woman of Genoa, blue-eyed and golden-haired, and beautiful--Ah! when a blonde is beautiful, her beauty transcends the beauty of all brunettes. I bowed, she spoke to me, I stammered. She put my awkwardness down to bashfulness, no doubt, but it was not bashfulness. I was in love with the Countess Feliciani, stricken to the heart at first sight. The love of a child of nine for a beautiful woman of thirty! How absurd it seems, but how real, and what a mystery! I swear that the love I had for that woman, love that haunted me for a long, long time, was equal in strength to the love of a full-grown man, with this difference: that it was immaterial, and, as far as my conscience tells me, utterly divorced from earthly passion. "Now go and play," said the Countess. And Eloise led me away, I knew not whither. CHAPTER V I SEE MYSELF, NOT KNOWING But to the mind of a child the moment is everything. Had I been a man, my inamorata would have driven me to solitude and cigars. Being what I was, supper pushed her image to one side for the moment. Such a supper! Served specially for the pair of us in a little room, once, I suppose, some lady's boudoir, for the walls were hung with blue silk, and the ceiling was painted with flowers and cupids. "Where is Carl?" asked Eloise of the German woman who served us. "Carl has been naughty," replied she. "Carl must remain in his room till the Baron forgives him." This woman, by name Gretel, was tall, angular, and hard of face. I did not care for her; and I noticed that she watched me from the corners of her eyes, somewhat in the same manner that the Baron had watched me as I played on the hearthrug with Marengo in the hotel at Frankfort. "Who is Carl?" said I. "Carl von Lichtenberg?" replied Eloise. "Why, he is the Baron's son. He is eight, and he tore my frock this morning right up here." She shifted in her chair, and plucked up the hem of her tiny skirt to show me the place. "But it was not for that Carl has been put in prison, for I never told, did I, Gretel?" Gretel grunted. "Come," said she, "if you have finished supper you can have half an hour's play before bed." She took the lamp in her hand, and led us from the room down a corridor; then, opening one side of a tall, double door, she led us into an immense picture-gallery. Portraits of dead-and-gone Lichtenbergs stared at us from the walls. Men in armour, knights dressed for the chase, ladies whose beauty or ugliness wore the veil of the centuries. "Why, this is the picture-gallery!" cried Eloise. "It is the shortest way to the playroom," grimly replied Gretel, as she stalked before us with the light. We followed her, walking hand-in-hand, as the babes in the wood walked in that grim story, to which the pity of the robins is the sequel. Suddenly Gretel halted. She stood lamp in hand before a picture. "Ah, Toto!" cried Eloise. I had seized her arm, I suppose roughly in my agitation, for the picture before which Gretel had halted filled me with a sensation I can scarcely describe. Terror!--yes, it was terror, but something else as well. The feeling I had experienced in the carriage, the feeling--"I have been here before"--held my heart. It was the picture of a girl in the garb of many, oh, many years ago; yet I knew her; and out of the past, far out of the past, came that mysterious terror that filled my soul. But for a moment this lasted, and then faded away, and things became commonplace once more; and Gretel was Gretel, the picture a picture, and in my hand lay the warm and charming hand of Eloise, which I had taken again. "That is the picture of Margaret von Lichtenberg," said Gretel, looking at me as she spoke. "How like she is to little Carl!" murmured Eloise. "Gretel, how like she is to little Carl!" "And this," said Gretel, holding the lamp to a small canvas under the large one, "is a picture of an ancestor of yours, little boy, Philippe de Saluce. He loved her, but it was many years ago. Eloise, come closer; see, who is this little picture like?" "Why, it is Toto!" cried Eloise, clapping her hands. "Toto, look!" I looked. It was the picture of a boy, a picture of the Marquis Philippe de Saluce, taken when he was quite young. I looked, but the thing made little impression upon me. Few people can recognise their likeness in another. "Come," said Gretel, and she led us on to the playroom. Now, here let me give you the dark and gloomy fact that Philippe de Saluce had cruelly killed Margaret von Lichtenberg in a fit of madness and rage. He had drowned her in the lake which lies in the woods of Schloss Lichtenberg, one dark and sad day of December, in the year of our Lord 1611. He had slain himself, too, "body and soul," said the old chronicles. 'Alas, what man