[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

Defn: The small arch or bar at right angles to the strings of a violin, guitar, etc., serving of raise them and transmit their vibrations to the body of the instrument. 4. (Elec.) Defn: A device to measure the resistance of a wire or other conductor forming part of an electric circuit. 5. A low wall or vertical partition in the fire chamber of a furnace, for deflecting flame, etc.; -- usually called a bridge wall. Aqueduct bridge. See Aqueduct. -- Asses' bridge, Bascule bridge, Bateau bridge. See under Ass, Bascule, Bateau. -- Bridge of a steamer (Naut.), a narrow platform across the deck, above the rail, for the convenience of the officer in charge of the ship; in paddlewheel vessels it connects the paddle boxes. -- Bridge of the nose, the upper, bony part of the nose. -- Cantalever bridge. See under Cantalever. -- Draw bridge. See Drawbridge. -- Flying bridge, a temporary bridge suspended or floating, as for the passage of armies; also, a floating structure connected by a cable with an anchor or pier up stream, and made to pass from bank to bank by the action of the current or other means. -- Girder bridge or Truss bridge, a bridge formed by girders, or by trusses resting upon abutments or piers. -- Lattice bridge, a bridge formed by lattice girders. -- Pontoon bridge, Ponton bridge. See under Pontoon. -- Skew bridge, a bridge built obliquely from bank to bank, as sometimes required in railway engineering. -- Suspension bridge. See under Suspension. -- Trestle bridge, a bridge formed of a series of short, simple girders resting on trestles. -- Tubular bridge, a bridge in the form of a hollow trunk or rectangular tube, with cellular walls made of iron plates riveted together, as the Britannia bridge over the Menai Strait, and the Victoria bridge at Montreal. -- Wheatstone's bridge (Elec.), a device for the measurement of resistances, so called because the balance between the resistances to be measured is indicated by the absence of a current in a certain wire forming a bridge or connection between two points of the apparatus; -- invented by Sir Charles Wheatstone. BRIDGE Bridge, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Bridged (; p. pr. & vb. n. Bridging.] 1. To build a bridge or bridges on or over; as, to bridge a river. Their simple engineering bridged with felled trees the streams which could not be forded. Palfrey. 2. To open or make a passage, as by a bridge. Xerxes . . . over Hellespont Bridging his way, Europe with Asia joined. Milton. 3. To find a way of getting over, as a difficulty; -- generally with over. BRIDGEBOARD Bridge"board`, n. 1. (Arch.) Defn: A notched board to which the treads and risers of the steps of wooden stairs are fastened. 2. A board or plank used as a bridge. BRIDGEHEAD Bridge"head`, n. Defn: A fortification commanding the extremity of a bridge nearest the enemy, to insure the preservation and usefulness of the bridge, and prevent the enemy from crossing; a tête-de-pont. BRIDGEING; BRIDGING Bridge"ing, Bridg"ing, n. (Arch.) Defn: The system of bracing used between floor or other timbers to distribute the weight. Bridging joist. Same as Binding joist. BRIDGELESS Bridge"less, a. Defn: Having no bridge; not bridged. BRIDGEPOT Bridge"pot`, n. (Mining) Defn: The adjustable socket, or step, of a millstone spindle. Knight. BRIDGETREE Bridge"tree`, n. Etym: [Bridge + tree a beam.] (Mining) Defn: The beam which supports the spindle socket of the runner in a grinding mill. Knight. BRIDGE-WARD Bridge"-ward`, n. 1. A bridge keeper; a warden or a guard for a bridge. [Obs.] Sir W. Scott. 2. The principal ward of a key. Knight. BRIDGEY Bridge"y, a. Defn: Full of bridges. [R.] Sherwood. BRIDLE Bri"dle, n. Etym: [OE. bridel, AS. bridel; akin to OHG. britil, brittil, D. breidel, and possibly to E. braid. Cf. Bridoon.] 1. The head gear with which a horse is governed and restrained, consisting of a headstall, a bit, and reins, with other appendages. 2. A restraint; a curb; a check. I. Watts. 3. (Gun.) Defn: The piece in the interior of a gun lock, which holds in place the timbler, sear, etc. 4. (Naut.) (a) A span of rope, line, or chain made fast as both ends, so that another rope, line, or chain may be attached to its middle. (b) A mooring hawser. Bowline bridle. See under Bowline. -- Branches of a bridle. See under Branch. -- Bridle cable (Naut.), a cable which is bent to a bridle. See 4, above. -- Bridle hand, the hand which holds the bridle in riding; the left hand. -- Bridle path, Bridle way, a path or way for saddle horses and pack horses, as distinguished from a road for vehicles. -- Bridle port (Naut.), a porthole or opening in the bow through which hawsers, mooring or bridle cables, etc., are passed. -- Bridle rein, a rein attached to the bit. -- Bridle road. (a) Same as Bridle path. Lowell. (b) A road in a pleasure park reserved for horseback exercise. -- Bridle track, a bridle path. -- Scolding bridle. See Branks, 2. Syn. -- A check; restrain. BRIDLE Bri"dle, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Bridled; p. pr. & vb. n. Bridling.] 1. To put a bridle upon; to equip with a bridle; as, to bridle a horse. He bridled her mouth with a silkweed twist. Drake. 2. To restrain, guide, or govern, with, or as with, a bridle; to check, curb, or control; as, to bridle the passions; to bridle a muse. Addison. Savoy and Nice, the keys of Italy, and the citadel in her hands to bridle Switzerland, are in that consolidation. Burke. Syn. -- To check; restrain; curb; govern; control; repress; master; subdue. BRIDLE Bri"dle, v. i. Defn: To hold up the head, and draw in the chin, as an expression of pride, scorn, or resentment; to assume a lofty manner; -- usually with up. "His bridling neck." Wordsworth. By her bridling up I perceived she expected to be treated hereafter not as Jenny Distaff, but Mrs. Tranquillus. Tatler. BRIDLE IRON Bri"dle i`ron. (Arch.) Defn: A strong flat bar of iron, so bent as to support, as in a stirrup, one end of a floor timber, etc., where no sufficient bearing can be had; -- called also stirrup and hanger. BRIDLER Bri"dler, n. Defn: One who bridles; one who restrains and governs, as with a bridle. Milton. BRIDOON Bri*doon", n. Etym: [F. bridon, from bride; of German origin. See Bridle, n.] (Mil.) Defn: The snaffle and rein of a military bridle, which acts independently of the bit, at the pleasure of the rider. It is used in connection with a curb bit, which has its own rein. Campbell. BRIE CHEESE Brie" cheese". Defn: A kind of soft French cream cheese; -- so called from the district in France where it is made; --called also fromage de Brie. BRIEF Brief, a. Etym: [OE. bref, F. brief, bref, fr. L. brevis; akin to Gr. barh to tear. Cf. Breve.] 1. Short in duration. How brief the life of man. Shak. 2. Concise; terse; succinct. The brief style is that which expresseth much in little. B. Jonson. 3. Rife; common; prevalent. [Prov. Eng.] In brief. See under Brief, n. Syn. -- Short; concise; succinct; summary; compendious; condensed; terse; curt; transistory; short-lived. BRIEF Brief, adv. 1. Briefly. [Obs. or Poetic] Adam, faltering long, thus answered brief. Milton. 2. Soon; quickly. [Obs.] Shak. BRIEF Brief, n. Etym: [See Brief, a., and cf. Breve.] 1. A short concise writing or letter; a statement in few words. Bear this sealed brief, With winged hastle, to the lord marshal. Shak. And she told me In a sweet, verbal brief. Shak. 2. An epitome. Each woman is a brief of womankind. Overbury. 3. (Law) Defn: An abridgment or concise statement of a client's case, made out for the instruction of counsel in a trial at law. This word is applied also to a statement of the heads or points of a law argument. It was not without some reference to it that I perused many a brief. Sir J. Stephen. Note: In England, the brief is prepared by the attorney; in the United States, counsel generally make up their own briefs. 4. (Law) Defn: A writ; a breve. See Breve, n., 2. 5. (Scots Law) Defn: A writ issuing from the chancery, directed to any judge ordinary, commanding and authorizing that judge to call a jury to inquire into the case, and upon their verdict to pronounce sentence. 6. A letter patent, from proper authority, authorizing a collection or charitable contribution of money in churches, for any public or private purpose. [Eng.] Apostolical brief, a letter of the pope written on fine parchment in modern characters, subscribed by the secretary of briefs, dated "a die Nativitatis," i. e., "from the day of the Nativity," and sealed with the ring of the fisherman. It differs from a bull, in its parchment, written character, date,