[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

version). CHARMER Charm"er, n. 1. One who charms, or has power to charm; one who uses the power of enchantment; a magician. Deut. xviii. 11. 2. One who delights and attracts the affections. CHARMERESS Charm"er*ess, n. Defn: An enchantress. Chaucer. CHARMFUL Charm"ful, a. Defn: Abounding with charms. "His charmful lyre." Cowley. CHARMING Charm"ing, a. Defn: Pleasing the mind or senses in a high degree; delighting; fascinating; attractive. How charming is divine philosophy. Milton. Syn. - Enchanting; bewitching; captivating; enrapturing; alluring; fascinating; delightful; pleasurable; graceful; lovely; amiable; pleasing; winning. -- Charm"ing*ly, adv. -- Charm"ing*ness, n. CHARMLESS Charm"less, a. Defn: Destitute of charms. Swift. CHARNECO; CHARNICO Char"ne*co, Char"ni*co, n. Defn: A sort of sweet wine. [Obs.] Shak. CHARNEL Char"nel, a. Etym: [F. charnel carnal, fleshly, fr. L. carnalis. See Carnal.] Defn: Containing the bodies of the dead. "Charnel vaults." Milton. Charnel house, a tomb, vault, cemetery, or other place where the bones of the dead are deposited; originally, a place for the bones thrown up when digging new graves in old burial grounds. CHARNEL Char"nel, n. Defn: A charnel house; a grave; a cemetery. In their proud charnel of Thermopylæ. Byron. CHARON Cha"ron, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. (Cless. Myth.) Defn: The son of Erebus and Nox, whose office it was to ferry the souls of the dead over the Styx, a river of the infernal regions. Shak. CHARPIE Char"pie, n. Etym: [F., properly fem. p. p. of OF. charpir, carpir, to pluck, fr. L. carpere. Cf. Carpet.] (Med.) Defn: Straight threads obtained by unraveling old linen cloth; -- used for surgical dressings. CHARQUI Char"qui, n. Etym: [Sp. A term used in South America, Central America, and the Western United States.] Defn: Jerked beef; beef cut into long strips and dried in the wind and sun. Darwin. CHARR Charr, n. Defn: See 1st Char. CHARRAS Char"ras, n. Defn: The gum resin of the hemp plant (Cannabis sativa). Same as Churrus. Balfour. CHARRE Charre, n. Etym: [LL. charrus a certain weight.] Defn: See Charge, n., 17. CHARRY Char"ry, a. Etym: [See 6th Char.] Defn: Pertaining to charcoal, or partaking of its qualities. CHART Chart, n. Etym: [A doublet of card: cf. F. charte charter, carte card. See Card, and cf. Charter.] 1. A sheet of paper, pasteboard, or the like, on which information is exhibited, esp. when the information is arranged in tabular form; as, an historical chart. 2. A map; esp., a hydrographic or marine map; a map on which is projected a portion of water and the land which it surrounds, or by which it is surrounded, intended especially for the use of seamen; as, the United States Coast Survey charts; the English Admiralty charts. 3. A written deed; a charter. Globular chart, a chart constructed on a globular projection. See under Globular. -- Heliographic chart, a map of the sun with its spots. -- Mercator's chart, a chart constructed on the principle of Mercator's projection. See Projection. -- Plane chart, a representation of some part of the superficies of the globe, in which its spherical form is disregarded, the meridians being drawn parallel to each other, and the parallels of latitude at equal distances. -- Selenographic chart, a map representing the surface of the moon. -- Topographic chart, a minute delineation of a limited place or region. CHART Chart, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Charted.] Defn: To lay down in a chart; to map; to delineate; as, to chart a coast. CHARTA Char"ta, n. Etym: [L., leaf of paper. See Chart.] (Law) (a) Material on which instruments, books, etc., are written; parchment or paper. (b) A charter or deed; a writing by which a grant is made. See Magna Charta. CHARTACEOUS Char*ta"ceous, a. Etym: [L. chartaceus. See Charta.] Defn: Resembling paper or parchment; of paper-like texture; papery. CHARTE Charte, n. Etym: [F. See Chart.] Defn: The constitution, or fundamental law, of the French monarchy, as established on the restoration of Louis XVIII., in 1814. CHARTER Char"ter, n. Etym: [OF. chartre, F. chartre, charte, fr. L. chartula a little paper, dim. of charta. See Chart, Card.] 1. A written evidence in due form of things done or granted, contracts made, etc., between man and man; a deed, or conveyance. [Archaic] 2. An instrument in writing, from the sovereign power of a state or country, executed in due form, bestowing rights, franchises, or privileges. The king [John, a.d. 1215], with a facility somewhat suspicious, signed and sealed the charter which was required of him. This famous deed, commonly called the "Great Charter," either granted or secured very important liberties and privileges to every order of men in the kingdom. Hume. 3. An act of a legislative body creating a municipal or other corporation and defining its powers and privileges. Also, an instrument in writing from the constituted authorities of an order or society (as the Freemasons), creating a lodge and defining its powers. 4. A special privilege, immunity, or exemption. My mother, Who has a charter to extol her blood, When she does praise me, grieves me. Shak. 5. (Com.) Defn: The letting or hiring a vessel by special contract, or the contract or instrument whereby a vessel is hired or let; as, a ship is offered for sale or charter. See Charter party, below. Charter land (O. Eng. Law), land held by charter, or in socage; bookland. -- Charter member, one of the original members of a society or corporation, esp. one named in a charter, or taking part in the first proceedings under it. -- Charter party Etym: [F. chartre partie, or charte partie, a divided charter; from the practice of cutting the instrument of contract in two, and giving one part to each of the contractors] (Com.), a mercantile lease of a vessel; a specific contract by which the owners of a vessel let the entire vessel, or some principal part of the vessel, to another person, to be used by the latter in transportation for his own account, either under their charge or his. -- People's Charter (Eng. Hist.), the document which embodied the demands made by the Chartists, so called, upon the English government in 1838. CHARTER Char"ter, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Chartered; p. pr. & vb. n. Chartering.] 1. To establish by charter. 2. To hire or let by charter, as a ship. See Charter party, under Charter, n. CHARTERED Char"tered, a. 1. Granted or established by charter; having, or existing under, a charter; having a privilege by charter. The sufficiency of chartered rights. Palfrey. The air, a chartered libertine. Shak. 2. Hired or let by charter, as a ship. CHARTERER Char"ter*er, n. Defn: One who charters; esp. one who hires a ship for a voyage. CHARTERHOUSE Char"ter*house`, n. Defn: A well known public school and charitable foundation in the building once used as a Carthusian monastery (Chartreuse) in London. CHARTERIST Char"ter*ist, n. Defn: Same as Chartist. CHARTISM Chart"ism, n. Etym: [F. charte charter. Cf. Charte, Chart.] Defn: The principles of a political party in England (1838-48), which contended for universal suffrage, the vote by ballot, annual parliaments, equal electoral districts, and other radical reforms, as set forth in a document called the People's Charter. CHARTIST Chart"ist, n. Defn: A supporter or partisan of chartism. [Eng.] CHARTLESS Chart"less, a. 1. Without a chart; having no guide. 2. Not mapped; uncharted; vague. Barlow. CHARTOGRAPHER; CHARTOGRAPHIC; CHARTOGRAPHY Char*tog"ra*pher, n., Char`to*graph"ic (, a., Char*tog"ra*phy (, n., etc. Defn: Same as Cartographer, Cartographic, Cartography, etc. CHARTOMANCY Char"to*man`cy, n. Etym: [L. charta paper + -mancy. Cf. Cartomancy.] Defn: Divination by written paper or by cards. CHARTOMETER Char*tom"e*ter, n. Etym: [Chart + -meter.] Defn: An instrument for measuring charts or maps. CHARTREUSE Char`treuse", n. Etym: [F.] 1. A Carthusian monastery; esp. La Grande Chartreuse, mother house of the order, in the mountains near Grenoble, France. 2. An alcoholic cordial, distilled from aromatic herbs; -- made at La Grande Chartreuse. CHARTREUX Char`treux", n. Etym: [F.] Defn: A Carthusian. CHARTULARY Char"tu*la*ry, n. Defn: See Cartulary. CHARWOMAN Char"wom`an, n.; pl. Charwomen. Etym: [See Char a chore.] Defn: A woman hired for odd work or for single days. CHARY Char"y, a. Etym: [AS. cearig careful, fr. cearu care. See Care.] Defn: Careful; wary; cautious; not rash, reckless, or spendthrift; saving; frugal. His rising reputation made him more chary of his fame. Jeffrey. CHARYBDIS Cha*ryb"dis, n. Etym: [L., Gr. Defn: A dangerous whirlpool on the coast of Sicily opposite Scylla on the Italian coast. It is personified as a female monster. See Scylla. CHASABLE Chas"a*ble, a. Defn: Capable of being chased; fit for hunting. Gower. CHASE Chase, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Chased; p. pr. & vb. n. Chasing.] Etym: [OF. chacier, F. chasser, fr. (assumed) LL. captiare, fr. L. captare to strive to seize. See Catch.] 1. To pursue for the purpose of killing or taking, as an enemy, or game; to hunt. We are those which chased you from the field. Shak. Philologists, who chase A panting syllable through time and place. Cowper. 2. To follow as if to catch; to