[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

of law. -- To make of. (a) To understand or think concerning; as, not to know what to make of the news. (b) To pay attention to; to cherish; to esteem; to account. "Makes she no more of me than of a slave." Dryden. -- To make one's law (Old Law), to adduce proof to clear one's self of a charge. -- To make out. (a) To find out; to discover; to decipher; as, to make out the meaning of a letter. (b) To prove; to establish; as, the plaintiff was unable to make out his case. (c) To make complete or exact; as, he was not able to make out the money. -- To make over, to transfer the title of; to convey; to alienate; as, he made over his estate in trust or in fee. -- To make sail. (Naut.) (a) To increase the quantity of sail already extended. (b) To set sail. -- To make shift, to manage by expedients; as, they made shift to do without it. [Colloq.]. -- To make sternway, to move with the stern foremost; to go or drift backward. -- To make strange, to act in an unfriendly manner or as if surprised; to treat as strange; as, to make strange of a request or suggestion. -- To make suit to, to endeavor to gain the favor of; to court. -- To make sure. See under Sure. -- To make up. (a) To collect into a sum or mass; as, to make up the amount of rent; to make up a bundle or package. (b) To reconcile; to compose; as, to make up a difference or quarrel. (c) To supply what is wanting in; to complete; as, a dollar is wanted to make up the stipulated sum. (d) To compose, as from ingredients or parts; to shape, prepare, or fabricate; as, to make up a mass into pills; to make up a story. He was all made up of love and charms! Addison. (e) To compensate; to make good; as, to make up a loss. (f) To adjust, or to arrange for settlement; as, to make up accounts. (g) To dress and paint for a part, as an actor; as, he was well made up. -- To make up a face, to distort the face as an expression of pain or derision. -- To make up one's mind, to reach a mental determination; to resolve. -- To make water. (a) (Naut.) To leak. (b) To urinate. -- To make way, or To make one's way. (a) To make progress; to advance. (b) To open a passage; to clear the way. -- To make words, to multiply words. MAKE Make, v. i. 1. To act in a certain manner; to have to do; to manage; to interfere; to be active; -- often in the phrase to meddle or make. [Obs.] A scurvy, jack-a-nape priest to meddle or make. Shak. 2. To proceed; to tend; to move; to go; as, he made toward home; the tiger made at the sportsmen. Note: Formerly, authors used to make on, to make forth, to make about; but these phrases are obsolete. We now say, to make at, to make away, to make for, to make off, to make toward, etc. 3. To tend; to contribute; to have effect; -- with for or against; as, it makes for his advantage. M. Arnold. Follow after the things which make for peace. Rom. xiv. 19. Considerations infinite Do make against it. Shak. 4. To increase; to augment; to accrue. 5. To compose verses; to write poetry; to versify. [Archaic] Chaucer. Tennyson. To solace him some time, as I do when I make. P. Plowman. To make as if, or To make as though, to pretend that; to make show that; to make believe (see under Make, v. t.). Joshua and all Israel made as if they were beaten before them, and fled. Josh. viii. 15. My lord of London maketh as though he were greatly displeased with me. Latimer. -- To make at, to go toward hastily, or in a hostile manner; to attack. -- To make away with. (a) To carry off. (b) To transfer or alienate; hence, to spend; to dissipate. (c) To kill; to destroy. -- To make off, to go away suddenly. -- To make out, to succeed; to be able at last; to make shift; as, he made out to reconcile the contending parties. -- To make up, to become reconciled or friendly. -- To make up for, to compensate for; to supply an equivalent for. -- To make up to. (a) To approach; as, a suspicious boat made up to us. (b) To pay addresses to; to make love to. -- To make up with, to become reconciled to. [Colloq.] -- To make with, to concur or agree with. Hooker. MAKE Make, n. Defn: Structure, texture, constitution of parts; construction; shape; form. It our perfection of so frail a make As every plot can undermine and shake Dryden. On the make,bent upon making great profits; greedy of gain. [Low, U. S.] MAKE AND BREAK Make and break. (Elec.) Defn: Any apparatus for making and breaking an electric circuit; a circuit breaker. MAKEBATE Make"bate`, n. Etym: [Make, v. + bate a quarrel.] Defn: One who excites contentions and quarrels. [Obs.] MAKE-BELIEF Make"-be*lief`, n. Defn: A feigning to believe; make believe. J. H. Newman. MAKE-BELIEVE Make"-be*lieve`, n. Defn: A feigning to believe, as in the play of children; a mere pretense; a fiction; an invention. "Childlike make-believe." Tylor. To forswear self-delusion and make-believe. M. Arnold. MAKE-BELIEVE Make"-be*lieve`, a. Defn: Feigned; insincere. "Make-believe reverence." G. Eliot. MAKED Mak"ed, obs. p. p. of Make. Defn: Made. Chaucer. MAKE-GAME Make"-game`, n. Defn: An object of ridicule; a butt. Godwin. MAKELESS Make"less, a. Etym: [See 1st Make, and cf. Matchless, Mateless.] 1. Matchless. [Obs.] Chaucer. 2. Without a mate. Shak. MAKE-PEACE Make"-peace` (-pes`) n. Defn: A peacemaker. [R.] Shak. MAKER Mak"er (mak"er) n., 1. One who makes, forms, or molds; a manufacturer; specifically, the Creator. The universal Maker we may praise. Milton. 2. (Law) Defn: The person who makes a promissory note. 3. One who writes verses; a poet. [Obs.] Note: "The Greeks named the poet poihth`s, which name, as the most excellent, hath gone through other languages. It cometh of this word poiei^n, make; wherein, I know not whether by luck or wisdom, we Englishmen have met well the Greeks in calling him a maker." Sir P. Sidney. MAKESHIFT Make"shift`, n. Defn: That with which one makes shift; a temporary expedient. James Mill. I am not a model clergyman, only a decent makeshift. G. Eliot. MAKE-UP Make"-up`, n. Defn: The way in which the parts of anything are put together; often, the way in which an actor is dressed, painted, etc., in personating a character. The unthinking masses are necessarily teleological in their mental make-up. L. F. Ward. MAKEWEIGHT Make"weight` (, n. Defn: That which is thrown into a scale to make weight; something of little account added to supply a deficiency or fill a gap. MAKI Ma"ki, n. Etym: [F., from native name.] (Zoöl.) Defn: A lemur. See Lemur. MAKING Mak"ing, n. 1. The act of one who makes; workmanship; fabrication; construction; as, this is cloth of your own making; the making of peace or war was in his power. 2. Composition, or structure. 3. a poem.[Obs.] Sir J. Davies. 4. That which establishes or places in a desirable state or condition; the material of which something may be made; as, early misfortune was the making of him. 5. External appearance; from. [Obs.] Shak. MAKING-IRON Mak"ing-i`ron, n. Defn: A tool somewhat like a chisel with a groove in it, used by calkers of ships to finish the seams after the oakum has been driven in. MAKING-UP Mak"ing-up`, n. 1. The act of bringing spirits to a certain degree of strength, called proof. 2. The act of becoming reconciled or friendly. MAL- Mal- Defn: . A prefix in composition denoting ill,or evil, F. male, adv., fr. malus, bad, ill. In some words it has the form male-, as in malediction, malevolent. See Malice. Note: The formmale- is chiefly used in cases where the c, either alone or with other letters, is pronounced as a separate syllable, as in malediction, malefactor, maleficent, etc. Where this is not the case, as in malfeasance or male-feasance, malformation or male- formation, etc., as also where the word to which it is prefixed commences with a vowel, as in maladministration, etc., the form malis to be preferred, and is the one commonly employed. MALA Ma"la, n.; pl. of Malum. Etym: [L.] Defn: Evils; wrongs; offenses against right and law. Mala in se Etym: [L.] (Law), offenses which are such from their own nature, at common law, irrespective of statute. -- Mala prohibita Etym: [L.] (Law), offenses prohibited by statute, as distinguished from mala in se, which are offenses at common law. MALABAR Mal"a*bar`, n. Defn: A region in the western part of the Peninsula