[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

of land or naval combatants, with their appurtenances, ready for action; -- an armament; troops; warlike array; -- often in the plural; hence, a body of men prepared for action in other ways; as, the laboring force of a plantation. Is Lucius general of the forces Shak. 4. (Law) (a) Strength or power exercised without law, or contrary to law, upon persons or things; violence. (b) Validity; efficacy. Burrill. 5. (Physics) Defn: Any action between two bodies which changes, or tends to change, their relative condition as to rest or motion; or, more generally, which changes, or tends to change, any physical relation between them, whether mechanical, thermal, chemical, electrical, magnetic, or of any other kind; as, the force of gravity; cohesive force; centrifugal force. Animal force (Physiol.), muscular force or energy. -- Catabiotic force Etym: [Gr. (Biol.), the influence exerted by living structures on adjoining cells, by which the latter are developed in harmony with the primary structures. -- Centrifugal force, Centripetal force, Coercive force, etc. See under Centrifugal, Centripetal, etc. -- Composition of forces, Correlation of forces, etc. See under Composition, Correlation, etc. -- Force and arms Etym: [trans. of L. vi et armis] (Law), an expression in old indictments, signifying violence. -- In force, or Of force, of unimpaired efficacy; valid; of full virtue; not suspended or reversed. "A testament is of force after men are dead." Heb. ix. 17. -- Metabolic force (Physiol.), the influence which causes and controls the metabolism of the body. -- No force, no matter of urgency or consequence; no account; hence, to do no force, to make no account of; not to heed. [Obs.] Chaucer. -- Of force, of necessity; unavoidably; imperatively. "Good reasons must, of force, give place to better." Shak. -- Plastic force (Physiol.), the force which presumably acts in the growth and repair of the tissues. -- Vital force (Physiol.), that force or power which is inherent in organization; that form of energy which is the cause of the vital phenomena of the body, as distinguished from the physical forces generally known. Syn. -- Strength; vigor; might; energy; stress; vehemence; violence; compulsion; coaction; constraint; coercion. -- Force, Strength. Strength looks rather to power as an inward capability or energy. Thus we speak of the strength of timber, bodily strength, mental strength, strength of emotion, etc. Force, on the other hand, looks more to the outward; as, the force of gravitation, force of circumstances, force of habit, etc. We do, indeed, speak of strength of will and force of will; but even here the former may lean toward the internal tenacity of purpose, and the latter toward the outward expression of it in action. But, though the two words do in a few cases touch thus closely on each other, there is, on the whole, a marked distinction in our use of force and strength. "Force is the name given, in mechanical science, to whatever produces, or can produce, motion." Nichol. Thy tears are of no force to mollify This flinty man. Heywood. More huge in strength than wise in works he was. Spenser. Adam and first matron Eve Had ended now their orisons, and found Strength added from above, new hope to spring Out of despair. Milton. FORCE Force, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Forced; p. pr. & vb. n. Forcing.] Etym: [OF. forcier, F. forcer, fr. LL. forciare, fortiare. See Force, n.] 1. To constrain to do or to forbear, by the exertion of a power not resistible; to compel by physical, moral, or intellectual means; to coerce; as, masters force slaves to labor. 2. To compel, as by strength of evidence; as, to force conviction on the mind. 3. To do violence to; to overpower, or to compel by violence to one;s will; especially, to ravish; to violate; to commit rape upon. To force their monarch and insult the court. Dryden. I should have forced thee soon wish other arms. Milton. To force a spotless virgin's chastity. Shak. 4. To obtain or win by strength; to take by violence or struggle; specifically, to capture by assault; to storm, as a fortress. 5. To impel, drive, wrest, extort, get, etc., by main strength or violence; -- with a following adverb, as along, away, from, into, through, out, etc. It stuck so fast, so deeply buried lay That scarce the victor forced the steel away. Dryden. To force the tyrant from his seat by war. Sahk. Ethelbert ordered that none should be forced into religion. Fuller. 6. To put in force; to cause to be executed; to make binding; to enforce. [Obs.] What can the church force more J. Webster. 7. To exert to the utmost; to urge; hence, to strain; to urge to excessive, unnatural, or untimely action; to produce by unnatural effort; as, to force a consient or metaphor; to force a laugh; to force fruits. High on a mounting wave my head I bore, Forcing my strength, and gathering to the shore. Dryden. 8. (Whist) Defn: To compel (an adversary or partner) to trump a trick by leading a suit of which he has none. 9. To provide with forces; to reënforce; to strengthen by soldiers; to man; to garrison. [Obs.] Shak. 10. To allow the force of; to value; to care for. [Obs.] For me, I force not argument a straw. Shak. Syn. -- To compel; constrain; oblige; necessitate; coerce; drive; press; impel. FORCE Force, v. i. [Obs. in all the senses.] 1. To use violence; to make violent effort; to strive; to endeavor. Forcing with gifts to win his wanton heart. Spenser. 2. To make a difficult matter of anything; to labor; to hesitate; hence, to force of, to make much account of; to regard. Your oath once broke, you force not to forswear. Shak. I force not of such fooleries. Camden. 3. To be of force, importance, or weight; to matter. It is not sufficient to have attained the name and dignity of a shepherd, not forcing how. Udall. FORCED Forced, a. Defn: Done or produced with force or great labor, or by extraordinary exertion; hurried; strained; produced by unnatural effort or pressure; as, a forced style; a forced laugh. Forced draught. See under Draught. -- Forced march (Mil.), a march of one or more days made with all possible speed. -- For"ced*ly, adv. -- For"ced*ness, n. FORCEFUL Force"ful, a. Defn: Full of or processing force; exerting force; mighty. -- Force"ful*ly, adv. Against the steed he threw His forceful spear. Dryden. FORCELESS Force"less, a. Defn: Having little or no force; feeble. These forceless flowers like sturdy trees support me. Shak. FORCEMEAT Force"meat`, n. Etym: [Corrupt. for farce-meat, fr. F. farce stuffing. See Farce, n.] (Cookery) Defn: Meat chopped fine and highly seasoned, either served up alone, or used as a stuffing. [Written also forced meat.] FORCEMENT Force"ment, n. Defn: The act of forcing; compulsion. [Obs.] It was imposed upon us by constraint; And will you count such forcement treachery J. Webster. FORCEPS For"ceps, n. Etym: [L. forceps, -cipis, from the root of formus Hot + capere to take; akin to E. heave. Cf. Furnace.] 1. A pair of pinchers, or tongs; an instrument for grasping, holding firmly, or exerting traction upon, bodies which it would be inconvenient or impracticable to seize with the fingers, especially one for delicate operations, as those of watchmakers, surgeons, accoucheurs, dentists, etc. 2. (Zoöl.) Defn: The caudal forceps-shaped appendage of earwigs and some other insects. See Earwig. Dressing forceps. See under Dressing. FORCE PUMP Force" pump`. (Mach.) (a) A pump having a solid piston, or plunger, for drawing and forcing a liquid, as water, through the valves; in distinction from a pump having a bucket, or valved piston. (b) A pump adapted for delivering water at a considerable height above the pump, or under a considerable pressure; in distinction from one which lifts the water only to the top of the pump or delivers it through a spout. See Illust. of Plunger pump, under Plunger. FORCER For"cer, n. 1. One who, or that which, forces or drives. 2. (Mech.) (a) The solid piston of a force pump; the instrument by which water is forced in a pump. (b) A small hand pump for sinking pits, draining cellars, etc. FORCIBLE For"ci*ble, a. Etym: [Cf. OF. forcible forcible, forceable that may be forced.] 1. Possessing force; characterized by force, efficiency, or energy; powerful; efficacious; impressive; influential. How forcible are right words! Job. vi. 2 Sweet smells are most forcible in dry substances, when broken. Bacon. But I have reasons strong and forcible. Shak. That punishment which hath been sometimes forcible to bridle sin. Hooker. He is at once elegant and sublime, forcible and ornamented. Lowth (Transl. ) 2. Violent; impetuous. Like mingled streams, more forcible when joined. Prior. 3. Using force against opposition or resistance; obtained by compulsion; effected by force; as, forcible entry or abduction. In embraces of King James . . . forcible and unjust. Swift. Forcible entry and detainer (Law), the entering upon and taking