[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

furniture is supported and moved. CASTIGATE Cas"ti*gate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Castigated; p. pr. & vb. n. Castigating.] Etym: [L. castigatus, p. p. of castigare to correct, punish; castus pure, chaste + agere to move, drive. See Caste, and cf. Chasten.] 1. To punish by stripes; to chastise by blows; to chasten; also, to chastise verbally; to reprove; to criticise severely. 2. To emend; to correct. [Obs.] CASTIGATION Cas`ti*ga"tion, n. Etym: [L. catigatio.] 1. Corrective punishment; chastisement; reproof; pungent criticism. The keenest castigation of her slanderers. W. Irving. 2. Emendation; correction. [Obs.] CASTIGATOR Cas`ti*ga"tor, n. Etym: [L.] Defn: One who castigates or corrects. CASTIGATORY Cas`ti*ga*to*ry, a. Etym: [L. castigatorius.] Defn: Punitive in order to amendment; corrective. CASTIGATORY Cas"ti*ga*to*ry, n. Defn: An instrument formerly used to punish and correct arrant scolds; -- called also a ducking stool, or trebucket. Blacktone. CASTILE SOAP Cas"tile soap". Etym: [From Castile, or Castilia, a province in Spain, from which it originally came.] Defn: A kind of fine, hard, white or mottled soap, made with olive and soda; also, a soap made in imitation of the above-described soap. CASTILIAN Cas*til"ian, n. Etym: [Sp. castellano, from Castila, NL. Castilia, Castella. Castile, which received its name from the castles erected on the frontiers as a barrier against the Moors.] 1. An inhabitant or native of Castile, in Spain. 2. The Spanish language as spoken in Castile. CASTILLAN Cas*til"lan, a. Defn: Of or pertaining to Castile, in Spain. CASTING Cast"ing, n. 1. The act of one who casts or throws, as in fishing. 2. The act or process of making cast or impressions, or of shaping metal or plaster in a mold; the act or the process of pouring molten metal into a mold. 3. That which is cast in a mold; esp. the mass of metal so cast; as, a casting in iron; bronze casting. 4. The warping of a board. Brande & C. 5. The act of casting off, or that which is cast off, as skin, feathers, excrement, etc. Casting of draperies, the proper distribution of the folds of garments, in painting and sculpture. -- Casting line (Fishing), the leader; also, sometimes applied to the long reel line. Casting net, a net which is cast and drawn, in distinction from a net that is set and left. -- Casting voice, Casting vote, the decisive vote of a presiding officer, when the votes of the assembly or house are equally divided. "When there was an equal vote, the governor had the casting voice." B. Trumbull. -- Casting weight, a weight that turns a balance when exactly poised. CAST IRON Cast" i`ron. Defn: Highly carbonized iron, the direct product of the blast furnace; -- used for making castings, and for conversion into wrought iron and steel. It can not be welded or forged, is brittle, and sometimes very hard. Besides carbon, it contains sulphur, phosphorus, silica, etc. CAST-IRON Cast"-i`ron, a. Defn: Made of cast iron. Hence, Fig.: like cast iron; hardy; unyielding. CASTLE Cas"tle, n. Etym: [AS. castel, fr. L. castellum, dim. of castrum a fortified place, castle.] 1. A fortified residence, especially that of a prince or nobleman; a fortress. The house of every one is to him castle and fortress, as well for his defense againts injury and violence, as for his repose. Coke. Our castle's strength Will laugh a siege to scorn. Shak. Note: Originally the mediæval castle was a single strong tower or keep, with a palisaded inclosure around it and inferior buidings, such as stables and the like, and surrounded by a moat; then such a keep or donjon, with courtyards or baileys and accessory buildings of greater elaboration a great hall and a chapel, all surrounded by defensive walls and a moat, with a drawbridge, etc. Afterwards the name was retained by large dwellings that had formerly been fortresses, or by those which replaced ancient fortresses. A Donjon or Keep, an irregular building containing the dwelling of the lord and his family; B C Large round towers ferming part of the donjon and of the exterior; D Square tower, separating the two inner courts and forming part of the donjon; E Chapel, whose apse forms a half-round tower, F, on the exterior walls; G H Round towers on the exterior walls; K Postern gate, reached from outside by a removable fight of steps or inclined plane for hoisting in stores, and leading to a court, L (see small digagram) whose pavement is on a level with the sill of the postern, but below the level of the larger court, with which it communicates by a separately fortified gateway; M Turret, containing spiral stairway to all the stories of the great tower, B, and serving also as a station for signal fire, banner, etc.; N Turret with stairway for tower, C; O Echauguettes; P P P Battlemants consisting of merlons and crenels alternately, the merlons being pierced by loopholes; Q Q Machicolations (those at Q defend the postern K); R Outwork defending the approach, which is a road ascending the hill and passing under all four faces of the castle; S S Wall of the outer bailey. The road of approach enters the bailey at T and passes thence into the castle by the main entrance gateway (which is in the wall between, and defended by the towers, C H) and over two drawbridges and through fortified passages to the inner court. 2. Any strong, imposing, and stately mansion. 3. A small tower, as on a ship, or an elephant's back. 4. A piece, made to represent a castle, used in the game of chess; a rook. Castle in the air, a visionary project; a baseless scheme; an air castle; -- sometimes called a castle in Spain (F. Château en Espagne). Syn. -- Fortress; fortification; citadel; stronghold. See Fortress. CASTLE Cas"tle, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Castled (. p. pr. & vb. n. Castling.] (Chess) Defn: To move the castle to the square next to king, and then the king around the castle to the square next beyond it, for the purpose of covering the king. CASTLEBUILDER Cas"tle*build`er, n. Defn: Fig.: one who builds castles in the air or forms visionary schemes. -- Cas"tle*build`ing, n. CASTLED Cas"tled, a. Defn: Having a castle or castles; supporting a castle; as, a castled height or crag. 2. Fortified; turreted; as, castled walls. CASTLE-GUARD Cas"tle-guard`, n. 1. The guard or defense of a castle. 2. (O. Eng. Law) Defn: A tax or imposition an a dwelling within a certain distance of a castle, for the purpose of maintaining watch and ward in it; castle-ward. 3. A feudal tenure, obliging the tenant to perform service within the realm, without limitation of time. CASTLERY Cas"tle*ry, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. castelerie. See Castle.] Defn: The government of a castle. Blount. CASTLET Cas"tlet, n. Defn: A small castle. Leland. CASTLEWARD Cas"tle*ward`, n. Defn: Same as Castleguard. CASTLING Cast"ling, n. Defn: That which is cast or brought forth prematurely; an abortion. Sir T. Browne. CASTLING Cas"tling, n. (Chess) Defn: A compound move of the king and castle. See Castle, v. i. CAST-OFF Cast"-off`, a. Defn: Cast or laid aside; as, cast-off clothes. CASTOR Cas"tor, n. Etym: [L. castor the beaver, Gr. 1. (Zoöl.) Defn: A genus of rodents, including the beaver. See Beaver. 2. Castoreum. See Castoreum. 3. A hat, esp. one made of beaver fur; a beaver. I have always been known for the jaunty manner in which I wear my castor. Sir W. Scott. 4. A heavy quality of broadcloth for overcoats. CASTOR Cast"or, n. Defn: See Caster, a small wheel. CASTOR Cas"tor, n. Etym: [L.] (Astron.) Defn: the northernmost of the two bright stars in the constellation Gemini, the other being Pollux. CASTOR; CASTORITE Cas"tor, Cas"tor*ite, n. Etym: [The minerals castor and pollux were so named because found together on the island of Elba. See Castor and Pollux.] (Min.) Defn: A variety of the mineral called petalite, from Elba. CASTOR AND POLLUX Cas"tor and Pol"lux. Etym: [Castor and Pollux were twin sons of Jupiter and Leda.] (Naut.) Defn: See Saint Elmo's fire, under Saint. CASTOR BEAN Cas"tor bean". (Bot.) Defn: The bean or seed of the castor-oil plant (Ricinus communis, or Palma Christi.) CASTOREUM Cas*to"re*um, n. Etym: [L. See Castor.] Defn: A peculiar bitter orange-brown substance, with strong, penetrating odor, found in two sacs between the anus and external genitals of the beaver; castor; -- used in medicine as an antispasmodic, and by perfumers. CASTORIN Cas"to*rin, n. Etym: [From 1st Castor.] (Chem.) Defn: A white crystalline substance obtained from castoreum. CASTOR OIL Cas"tor oil. Defn: A mild cathartic oil, expressed or extracted from the seeds of the Ricinus communis, or Palma Christi. When fresh the oil is inodorus and insipid. Castor-oil plant. Same as Palma Christi. CASTRAMETATION Cas`tra*me*ta"tion, n. Etym: [F. castramétation, fr. L. castra camp + metari to measure off, fr. meta limit.] (Mil.) Defn: The art or act of encamping; the making or laying out of a camp. CASTRATE Cas"trate, v. t. [imp. &