[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

show the variations of atmospheric pressure without the use of liquids, as the aneroid. HOLOSTOMATA Hol`o*stom"a*ta, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. "o`los whole + sto`ma, - atos, mouth.] (Zoöl.) Defn: An artificial division of gastropods, including those that have an entire aperture. HOLOSTOMATE Ho*los"to*mate, a. (Zoöl.) Defn: Same as Holostomatous. HOLOSTOMATOUS Hol`o*stom"a*tous, a. (Zoöl.) Defn: Having an entire aperture; -- said of many univalve shells. HOLOSTOME Hol"o*stome, n. Etym: [Holo + Gr. sto`ma mouth.] (Zoöl.) Defn: One of the Holostomata. HOLOSTRACA Ho*los"tra*ca, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.) Defn: A division of phyllopod Crustacea, including those that are entirely covered by a bivalve shell. HOLOTHURE Hol"o*thure, n. Etym: [L. holothuria, pl., a sort of water polyp, Gr. (Zoöl.) Defn: A holothurian. HOLOTHURIAN Hol`o*thu"ri*an, a. Defn: ( -- n. Defn: One of the Holothurioidea. Note: Some of the species of Holothurians are called sea cucumbers, sea slugs, trepang, and bêche de mèr. Many are used as food, esp. by the Chinese. See Trepang. HOLOTHURIOIDEA Hol`o*thu`ri*oi"de*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Holothure, and -oid.] (Zoöl.) Defn: One of the classes of echinoderms. Note: They have a more or less elongated body, often flattened beneath, and a circle of tentacles, which are usually much branched, surrounding the mouth; the skin is more or less flexible, and usually contains calcareous plates of various characteristic forms, sometimes becoming large and scalelike. Most of the species have five bands (ambulacra) of sucker-bearing feet along the sides; in others these are lacking. In one group (Pneumonophora) two branching internal gills are developed; in another (Apneumona) these are wanting. Called also Holothurida, Holothuridea, and Holothuroidea. HOLOTRICHA Ho*lot"ri*cha, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.) Defn: A group of ciliated Infusoria, having cilia all over the body. HOLOUR Hol"our, n. Etym: [OF.holier.] Defn: A whoremonger. [Obs.] Chaucer. HOLP; HOLPEN Holp, Hol"pen, Defn: imp. & p. p. of Help. [Obs.] Shak. HOLSOM Hol"som, a. Defn: Wholesome. [Obs.] Chaucer. HOLSTEIN Hol"stein, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: One of a breed of cattle, originally from Schleswig-Holstein, valued for the large amount of milk produced by the cows. The color is usually black and white in irregular patches. HOLSTER Hol"ster, n. Etym: [D. holster; skin to AS. heolstor den, cave, fr.helan to conceal, and to Icel. hulstr case, Goth.hulistr covering, veil, huljan to cover. sq. root17. See Hele to cover, Hell, and cf. Housing, Houss.] Defn: A leather case for a pistol, carried by a horseman at the bow of his saddle. HOLSTERED Hol"stered, a. Defn: Bearing holsters. Byron. HOLT Holt, Defn: 3d pers. sing. pres. of Hold, contr. from holdeth. [Obs.] Chaucer. HOLT Holt, n. Etym: [AS. holt; akin to LG.holt, D.hout, G. holz. Icel. holt; cf Gael. & Ir.coill wood, Gr. 1. A piece of woodland; especially, a woody hill. "Every holt and heath." Chaucer. She sent her voice though all the holt Before her, and the park. Tennyson. 2. A deep hole in a river where there is protection for fish; also, a cover, a hole, or hiding place. " The fox has gone to holt." C. Kingsley. HOLWE Hol"we, a. Defn: Hollow. [Obs.] Chaucer. HOLY Ho"ly, a. [Compar. Holier; superl. Holiest.] Etym: [OE. holi, hali, AS.halig, fr. hæl health, salvation, happiness, fr. hal whole, well; akin to OS. h, D. & G.heilig, OHG. heilac, Dan. hellig, Sw. helig, Icel. heilagr. See Whole, and cf. Halibut, Halidom, Hallow, Hollyhock.] 1. Set apart to the service or worship of God; hallowed; sacred; reserved from profane or common use; holy vessels; a holy priesthood. "Holy rites and solemn feasts." Milton. 2. Spiritually whole or sound; of unimpaired innocence and virtue; free from sinful affections; pure in heart; godly; pious; irreproachable; guiltless; acceptable to God. Now through her round of holy thought The Church our annual steps has brought. Keble. Holy Alliance (Hist.), a league ostensibly for conserving religion, justice, and peace in Europe, but really for repressing popular tendencies toward constitutional government, entered into by Alexander I. of Russia, Francis I. of Austria, and Frederic William III. of Prussia, at Paris, on the 26th of September, 1815, and subsequently joined by all the sovereigns of Europe, except the pope and the king of England. -- Holy bark. See Cascara sagrada. -- Holy Communion. See Eucharist. -- Holy family (Art), a picture in which the infant Christ, his parents, and others of his family are represented. -- Holy Father, a title of the pope. -- Holy Ghost (Theol.),the third person of the Trinity; the Comforter; the Paraclete. -- Holy Grail. See Grail. -- Holy grass (Bot.), a sweet-scented grass (Hierochloa borealis and H. alpina). In the north of Europe it was formerly strewed before church doors on saints' days; whence the name. It is common in the northern and western parts of the United States. Called also vanilla, or Seneca, grass. -- Holy Innocents' day, Childermas day. -- Holy Land, Palestine, the birthplace of Christianity. -- Holy office, the Inquisition. -- Holy of holies (Script.), the innermost apartment of the Jewish tabernacle or temple, where the ark was kept, and where no person entered, except the high priest once a year. -- Holy One. (a) The Supreme Being; -- so called by way of emphasis. " The Holy One of Israel." Is. xliii. 14. (b) One separated to the service of God. -- Holy orders. See Order. -- Holy rood, the cross or crucifix, particularly one placed, in churches. over the entrance to the chancel. -- Holy rope, a plant, the hemp agrimony. -- Holy Saturday (Eccl.), the Saturday immediately preceding the festival of Easter; the vigil of Easter. -- Holy Spirit, same as Holy Ghost (above). -- Holy Spirit plant. See Dove plant. -- Holy thistle (Bot.), the blessed thistle. See under Thistle. -- Holy Thursday. (Eccl.) (a) (Episcopal Ch.) Ascension day. (b) (R. C. Ch.) The Thursday in Holy Week; Maundy Thursday. -- Holy war, a crusade; an expedition carried on by Christians against the Saracens in the Holy Land, in the eleventh, twelfth, and thirteenth centuries, for the possession of the holy places. -- Holy water (Gr. & R. C. Churches), water which has been blessed by the priest for sacred purposes. -- Holy-water stoup, the stone stoup or font placed near the entrance of a church, as a receptacle for holy water. -- Holy Week (Eccl.), the week before Easter, in which the passion of our Savior is commemorated. -- Holy writ, the sacred Scriptures. " Word of holy writ." Wordsworth. HOLY CROSS Ho"ly cross". Defn: The cross as the symbol of Christ's crucifixion. Congregation of the Holy Cross (R. C. Ch.), a community of lay brothers and priests, in France and the United States, engaged chiefly in teaching and manual Labor. Originally called Brethren of St. Joseph. The Sisters of the Holy Cross engage in similar work. Addis & Arnold. -- Holy-cross day, the fourteenth of September, observed as a church festival, in memory of the exaltation of our Savior's cross. HOLYDAY Ho"ly*day`, n. 1. A religious festival. 2. A secular festival; a holiday. Note: Holiday is the preferable and prevailing spelling in the second sense. The spelling holy day or holyday in often used in the first sense. HOLYSTONE Ho"ly*stone`, n. (Naut.) Defn: A stone used by seamen for scrubbing the decks of ships. Totten. HOLYSTONE Ho"ly*stone`, v. t. (Naut.) Defn: To scrub with a holystone, as the deck of a vessel. HOMACANTH Hom"a*canth, a. Etym: [Homo + Gr. a spine.] (Zoöl.) Defn: Having the dorsal fin spines symmetrical, and in the same line; -- said of certain fishes. HOMAGE Hom"age, n. Etym: [OF.homage, homenage, F. hommage, LL. hominaticum, homenaticum, from L. homo a man, LL. also, a client, servant, vassal; akin to L. humus earth, Gr.groom in bridegroom. Cf. Bridegroom, Human.] 1. (Feud. Law) Defn: A symbolical acknowledgment made by a feudal tenant to, and in the presence of, his lord, on receiving investiture of fee, or coming to it by succession, that he was his man, or vassal; profession of fealty to a sovereign. 2. Respect or reverential regard; deference; especially, respect paid by external action; obeisance. All things in heaven and earth do her [Law] homage. Hooker. I sought no homage from the race that write. Pope. 3. Reverence directed to the Supreme Being; reverential worship; devout affection. Chaucer. Syn. -- Fealty; submission; reverence; honor; respect. -- Homage, Fealty. Homage was originally the act of a feudal tenant by which he declared himself, on his knees, to be the hommage or bondman of the lord; hence the term is used to denote reverential submission or respect. Fealty was originally the fidelity of such a tenant to his lord, and hence the term denotes a faithful and solemn adherence to the obligations we owe to superior power or authority. We pay our homage to men of preëminent usefulness and virtue, and profess our fealty to the principles by which they have been guided. Go, go with homage yon proud victors meet ! Go, lie like dogs beneath your masters' feet ! Dryden. Man, disobeying, Disloyal,