[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

made in imitation of velvet. See Mockado. MOCKABLE Mock"a*ble, a. Defn: Such as can be mocked. Shak. MOCKADO Mock"a*do, n. Defn: A stuff made in imitation of velvet; -- probably the same as mock velvet. [Obs.] Our rich mockado doublet. Ford. MOCKADOUR Mock"a*dour, n. Defn: See Mokadour. [Obs.] MOCKAGE Mock"age, n. Defn: Mockery. [Obs.] Fuller. MOCKBIRD Mock"bird`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: The European sedge warbler (Acrocephalus phragmitis). MOCKER Mock"er, n. 1. One who, or that which, mocks; a scorner; a scoffer; a derider. 2. A deceiver; an impostor. 3. (Zoöl.) Defn: A mocking bird. Mocker nut (Bot.), a kind of hickory (Carya tomentosa) and its fruit, which is far inferior to the true shagbark hickory nut. MOCKERY Mock"er*y, n.; pl. Mockeries. Etym: [F. moquerie.] 1. The act of mocking, deriding, and exposing to contempt, by mimicry, by insincere imitation, or by a false show of earnestness; a counterfeit appearance. It is, as the air, invulnerable, And our vain blows malicious mockery. Shak. Grace at meals is now generally so performed as to look more like a mockery upon devotion than any solemn application of the mind to God. Law. And bear about the mockery of woe. Pope. 2. Insulting or contemptuous action or speech; contemptuous merriment; derision; ridicule. The laughingstock of fortune's mockeries. Spenser. 3. Subject of laughter, derision, or sport. The cruel handling of the city whereof they made a mockery. 2 Macc. viii. 17. MOCKING Mock"ing, a. Defn: Imitating, esp. in derision, or so as to cause derision; mimicking; derisive. Mocking bird (Zoöl.), a North American singing bird (Mimus polyglottos), remarkable for its exact imitations of the notes of other birds. Its back is gray; the tail and wings are blackish, with a white patch on each wing; the outer tail feathers are partly white. The name is also applied to other species of the same genus, found in Mexico, Central America, and the West Indies. -- Mocking thrush (Zoöl.), any species of the genus Harporhynchus, as the brown thrush (H. rufus). -- Mocking wren (Zoöl.), any American wren of the genus Thryothorus, esp. T. Ludovicianus. MOCKINGLY Mock"ing*ly, adv. Defn: By way of derision; in a contemptuous or mocking manner. MOCKINGSTOCK Mock"ing*stock`, n. Defn: A butt of sport; an object of derision. [R.] MOCKISH Mock"ish, a. Defn: Mock; counterfeit; sham. [Obs.] MOCKLE Moc"kle, a. Defn: See Mickle. MOCO Mo"co, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: A South American rodent (Cavia rupestris), allied to the Guinea pig, but larger; -- called also rock cavy. MODAL Mo"dal, a. Etym: [Cf. F. modal. See Mode.] 1. Of or pertaining to a mode or mood; consisting in mode or form only; relating to form; having the form without the essence or reality. Glanvill. 2. (Logic & Metaph.) Defn: Indicating, or pertaining to, some mode of conceiving existence, or of expressing thought. MODALIST Mo"dal*ist, n. (Theol.) Defn: One who regards Father, Son, and Spirit as modes of being, and not as persons, thus denying personal distinction in the Trinity. Eadie. MODALITY Mo*dal"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. modalité.] 1. The quality or state of being modal. 2. (Logic & Metaph.) Defn: A modal relation or quality; a mode or point of view under which an object presents itself to the mind. According to Kant, the quality of propositions, as assertory, problematical, or apodeictic. MODALLY Mo"dal*ly, adv. Defn: In a modal manner. A compound proposition, the parts of which are united modally ... by the particles "as" and "so." Gibbs. MODE Mode, n. Etym: [L. modus a measure, due or proper measure, bound, manner, form; akin to E. mete: cf. F. mode. See Mete, and cf. Commodious, Mood in grammar, Modus.] 1. Manner of doing or being; method; form; fashion; custom; way; style; as, the mode of speaking; the mode of dressing. The duty of itself being resolved on, the mode of doing it may easily be found. Jer. Taylor. A table richly spread in regal mode. Milton. 2. Prevailing popular custom; fashion, especially in the phrase the mode. The easy, apathetic graces of a man of the mode. Macaulay. 3. Variety; gradation; degree. Pope. 4. (Metaph.) Defn: Any combination of qualities or relations, considered apart from the substance to which they belong, and treated as entities; more generally, condition, or state of being; manner or form of arrangement or manifestation; form, as opposed to matter. Modes I call such complex ideas, which, however compounded, contain not in them the supposition of subsisting by themselves, but are considered as dependencies on, or affections of, substances. Locke. 5. (Logic) Defn: The form in which the proposition connects the predicate and subject, whether by simple, contingent, or necessary assertion; the form of the syllogism, as determined by the quantity and quality of the constituent proposition; mood. 6. (Gram.) Defn: Same as Mood. 7. (Mus.) Defn: The scale as affected by the various positions in it of the minor intervals; as, the Dorian mode, the Ionic mode, etc., of ancient Greek music. Note: In modern music, only the major and the minor mode, of whatever key, are recognized. 8. A kind of silk. See Alamode, n. Syn. -- Method; manner. See Method. MODEL Mod"el, n. Etym: [F. modèle, It. modello, fr. (assumed) L. modellus, fr. modulus a small measure, dim. of modus. See Mode, and cf. Module.] 1. A miniature representation of a thing, with the several parts in due proportion; sometimes, a facsimile of the same size. In charts, in maps, and eke in models made. Gascoigne. I had my father's signet in my purse, Which was the model of that Danish seal. Shak. You have the models of several ancient temples, though the temples and the gods are perished. Addison. 2. Something intended to serve, or that may serve, as a pattern of something to be made; a material representation or embodiment of an ideal; sometimes, a drawing; a plan; as, the clay model of a sculpture; the inventor's model of a machine. [The application for a patent] must be accompanied by a full description of the invention, with drawings and a model where the case admits of it. Am. Cyc. When we mean to build We first survey the plot, then draw the model. Shak. 3. Anything which serves, or may serve, as an example for imitation; as, a government formed on the model of the American constitution; a model of eloquence, virtue, or behavior. 4. That by which a thing is to be measured; standard. He that despairs measures Providence by his own little, contracted model. South. 5. Any copy, or resemblance, more or less exact. Thou seest thy wretched brother die, Who was the model of thy father's life. Shak. 6. A person who poses as a pattern to an artist. A professional model. H. James. Working model, a model of a machine which can do on a small scale the work which the machine itself does, or expected to do. MODEL Mod"el, a. Defn: Suitable to be taken as a model or pattern; as, a model house; a model husband. MODEL Mod"el, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Modeled or Modelled; p. pr. & vb. n. Modeling or Modelling.] Etym: [Cf. F. modeler, It. modellare.] Defn: To plan or form after a pattern; to form in model; to form a model or pattern for; to shape; to mold; to fashion; as, to model a house or a government; to model an edifice according to the plan delineated. MODEL Mod"el, v. i. (Fine Arts) Defn: To make a copy or a pattern; to design or imitate forms; as, to model in wax. MODELER Mod"el*er, n. Defn: One who models; hence, a worker in plastic art. [Written also modeller.] MODELING Mod"el*ing, n. (Fine Arts) Defn: The act or art of making a model from which a work of art is to be executed; the formation of a work of art from some plastic material. Also, in painting, drawing, etc., the expression or indication of solid form. [Written also modelling.] Modeling plane, a small plane for planing rounded objects. -- Modeling wax, beeswax melted with a little Venice turpentine, or other resinous material, and tinted with coloring matter, usually red, -- used in modeling. MODELIZE Mod"el*ize, v. t. Defn: To model. [Obs.] B. Jonson. MODENA Mod"e*na, n. Etym: [From Modena, in Italy.] Defn: A certain crimsonlike color. Good. MODENESE Mod`e*nese", a. Defn: Of or pertaining to Modena or its inhabitants. -- n. sing. & pl. Defn: A native or inhabitant of Modena; the people of Modena. MODER Mo"der, n. Etym: [OE. See Mother female parent.] 1. A mother. [Obs.] Chaucer. 2. The principal piece of an astrolabe, into which the others are fixed. [Obs.] MODER Mod"er, v. t. Defn: To moderate. [Obs.] MODERABLE Mod"er*a*ble, a. Etym: [L. moderabilis.] Defn: Modeate; temperate. [Obs.] MODERANCE Mod"er*ance, n. Defn: Moderation. [Obs.] Caxton. MODERATE Mod"er*ate, a. Etym: [L. moderatus, p.p. of moderate, moderati, to moderate, regulate, control, fr. modus measure. See Mode.] Defn: Kept within due bounds; observing reasonable limits; not excessive, extreme, violent, or rigorous; limited; restrained; as: (a) Limited in quantity;