[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

Swift. 6. To strain; to subject to excessive tests; as, the light tries his eyes; repeated disappointments try one's patience. 7. (Law) Defn: To examine or investigate judicially; to examine by witnesses or other judicial evidence and the principles of law; as, to try a cause, or a criminal. 8. To settle; to decide; to determine; specifically, to decide by an appeal to arms; as, to try rival claims by a duel; to try conclusions. Left I the court, to see this quarrel tried. Shak. 9. To experience; to have or gain knowledge of by experience. Milton. Or try the Libyan heat or Scythian cold. Dryden. 10. To essay; to attempt; to endeavor. Let us try . . . to found a path. Milton. To try on. (a) To put on, as a garment, to ascertain whether it fits the person. (b) To attempt; to undertake. [Slang] Dickens. Syn. -- To attempt; endeavor; strive; aim; examine. -- Try, Attempt. To try is the generic, to attempt is the specific, term. When we try, we are usually uncertain as to success; when we attempt, we have always some definite object in view which we seek to accomplish. We may be indifferent as to the result of a trial, but we rarely attempt anything without a desire to succeed. He first deceased: she for a little tried To live without him; liked it not, and died. Sir H. Wotton. Alack, I am afraid they have a waked, And 't is not done. The attempt, and not the deed, Confounds us. Shak. TRY Try, v. i. 1. To exert strength; to endeavor; to make an effort or an attempt; as, you must try hard if you wish to learn. 2. To do; to fare; as, how do you try! [Prov. Eng.] TRY Try, n. 1. A screen, or sieve, for grain. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Holland. 2. Act of trying; attempt; experiment; trial. This breaking of his has been but a try for his friends. Shak. Try cock, a gauge cock. See under Gauge. TRY Try, a. Etym: [Cf. Try, v. t.] Defn: Refined; select; excellent; choice. [Obs.] "Sugar that is try." Chaucer. TRY COCK Try cock. Defn: A cock for withdrawing a small quantity of liquid, as for testing. TRYGON Try"gon (tri"gôn) n. Etym: [L., a sting ray, from Gr. (Zoöl.) Defn: Any one of several species of large sting rays belonging to Trygon and allied genera. TRYING Try"ing, a. Defn: Adapted to try, or put to severe trial; severe; afflictive; as, a trying occasion or position. TRYOUT Try"out, n. (Sports) Defn: A test by which the fitness of a player or contestant to remain in a certain class is determined. TRYPSIN Tryp"sin, n. Etym: [Cr. (physiol.) Defn: A proteolytic ferment, or enzyme, present in the pancreatic juice. Unlike the pepsin of the gastric juice, it acts in a neutral or alkaline fluid, and not only converts the albuminous matter of the food into soluble peptones, but also, in part, into leucin and tyrosin. TRYPSINOGEN Tryp*sin"o*gen, n. Etym: [Trypsin + -gen.] (Physiol.) Defn: The antecedent of trypsin, a substance which is contained in the cells of the pancreas and gives rise to the trypsin. TRYPTIC Tryp"tic, a. (Physiol.) Defn: Relating to trypsin or to its action; produced by trypsin; as, trypsin digestion. TRYPTONE Tryp"tone, n. (Physiol. Chem.) Defn: The peptone formed by pancreatic digestion; -- so called because it is formed through the agency of the ferment trypsin. TRYSAIL Try"sail, n. (Naut.) Defn: A fore-and-aft sail, bent to a gaff, and hoisted on a lower mast or on a small mast, called the trysail mast, close abaft a lower mast; -- used chiefly as a storm sail. Called also spencer. Totten. TRY-SQUARE Try"-square`, n. Defn: An instrument used by carpenters, joiners, etc., for laying off right angles off right angles, and testing whether work is square. TRYST Tryst, n. Etym: [OE. trist, tryst, a variant of trust; cf. Icel. treysta to make trusty, fr. traust confidence, security. See Trust, n.] 1. Trust. [Obs.] 2. An appointment to meet; also, an appointed place or time of meeting; as, to keep tryst; to break tryst. [Scot. or Poetic] To bide tryst, to wait, at the appointed time, for one with whom a tryst or engagement is made; to keep an engagement or appointment. The tenderest-hearted maid That ever bided tryst at village stile. Tennyson. TRYST Tryst, v. t. Etym: [OE. tristen, trysten. See Tryst, n.] 1. To trust. [Obs.] 2. To agree with to meet at a certain place; to make an appointment with. [Scot.] Burns. TRYST Tryst, v. i. Defn: To mutually agree to meet at a certain place. [Scot.] TRYSTER Tryst"er, n. Defn: One who makes an appointment, or tryst; one who meets with another. TRYSTING Tryst"ing, n. Defn: An appointment; a tryst. Trysting day, an arranged day of meeting or assembling, as of soldiers, friends, and the like. And named a trysting day, And bade his messengers ride forth East and west and south and north, To summon his array. Macaulay. -- Trysting place, a place designated for the assembling of soldiers, the meeting of parties for an interview, or the like; a rendezvous. Byron. TSAR Tsar, n. Defn: The title of the emperor of Russia. See Czar. TSARINA; TSARITSA Tsa*ri"na, Tsa*rit"sa, n. Etym: [Russ. tsaritsa. Cf. Czarina.] Defn: The title of the empress of Russia. See Czarina. TSCHAKMECK Tschak*meck", n. (Zoöl.) Defn: The chameck. TSCHEGO Tsche"go, n. Etym: [From a native name.] (Zoöl.) Defn: A West African anthropoid ape allied to the gorilla and chimpanzee, and by some considered only a variety of the chimpanzee. It is noted for building large, umbrella-shaped nests in trees. Called also tscheigo, tschiego, nschego, nscheigo. TSEBE Tse"be, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: The springbok. TSETSE Tset"se, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: A venomous two-winged African fly (Glossina morsitans) whose bite is very poisonous, and even fatal, to horses and cattle, but harmless to men. It renders extensive districts in which it abounds uninhabitable during certain seasons of the year. [Written also tzetze, and tsetze.] T SQUARE T" square`. Defn: See under T. TSUNG-LI YAMEN Tsung"-li Ya"men. [Written also Tsung-li-Yamen or Tsungli Yamen.] [Chin.] Defn: The board or department of foreign affairs in the Chinese government. See Yamen. TSUNG TU Tsung" tu`. Defn: A viceroy or governor-general, the highest provincial official in China, with civil and military authority over one or more provinces. TUATARA Tu`a*ta"ra, n. [Maori tuatàra; tua on the farther side (the back) + tara spine.] Defn: A large iguanalike reptile (Sphenodon punctatum) formerly common in New Zealand, but now confined to certain islets near the coast. It reaches a length of two and a half feet, is dark olive- green with small white or yellowish specks on the sides, and has yellow spines along the back, except on the neck. TUATERA Tu`a*te"ra, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: See Hatteria. TUB Tub, n. Etym: [OE. tubbe; of Dutch or Low German origin; cf. LG. tubbe, D. tobbe.] 1. An open wooden vessel formed with staves, bottom, and hoops; a kind of short cask, half barrel, or firkin, usually with but one head, -- used for various purposes. 2. The amount which a tub contains, as a measure of quantity; as, a tub of butter; a tub of camphor, which is about 1 cwt., etc. 3. Any structure shaped like a tub: as, a certain old form of pulpit; a short, broad boat, etc., -- often used jocosely or opprobriously. All being took up and busied, some in pulpits and some in tubs, in the grand work of preaching and holding forth. South. 4. A sweating in a tub; a tub fast. [Obs.] Shak. 5. A small cask; as, a tub of gin. 6. A box or bucket in which coal or ore is sent up a shaft; -- so called by miners. Tub fast, an old mode of treatment for the venereal disease, by sweating in a close place, or tub, and fasting. [Obs.] Shak. -- Tub wheel, a horizontal water wheel, usually in the form of a short cylinder, to the circumference of which spiral vanes or floats, placed radially, are attached, turned by the impact of one or more streams of water, conducted so as to strike against the floats in the direction of a tangent to the cylinder. TUB Tub, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Tubbed; p. pr. & vb. n. Tubbing.] Defn: To plant or set in a tub; as, to tub a plant. TUB Tub, i. Defn: To make use of a bathing tub; to lie or be in a bath; to bathe. [Colloq.] Don't we all tub in England London Spectator. TUBA Tu"ba, n. Etym: [L., trumpet.] (Mus.) (a) An ancient trumpet. (b) A sax-tuba. See Sax-tuba. TUBAL Tub"al, a. Defn: Of or pertaining to a tube; specifically, of or pertaining to one of the Fallopian tubes; as, tubal pregnancy. TUBBING Tub"bing, n. 1. The forming of a tub; also, collectively, materials for tubs. 2. A lining of timber or metal around