[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

and like purposes; also, a similar piece of ivory, bone, wood, etc., used as a ticket of admission to theaters, or as a certificate for successful gladiators, and as a token for various other purposes. Fairholt. TESSERAIC Tes`se*ra"ic, a. Defn: Diversified by squares; done in mosaic; tessellated. [Obs.] Sir R. Atkyns (1712). TESSERAL Tes"se*ral, a. 1. Of, pertaining to, or containing, tesseræ. 2. (Crystallog.) Defn: Isometric. TESSULAR Tes"su*lar, a. (Crystallog.) Defn: Tesseral. TEST Test, n. Etym: [OE. test test, or cupel, potsherd, F. têt, from L. testum an earthen vessel; akin to testa a piece of burned clay, an earthen pot, a potsherd, perhaps for tersta, and akin to torrere to patch, terra earth (cf. Thirst, and Terrace), but cf. Zend tasta cup. Cf. Test a shell, Testaceous, Tester a covering, a coin, Testy, Tête- à-tête.] 1. (Metal.) Defn: A cupel or cupelling hearth in which precious metals are melted for trial and refinement. Our ingots, tests, and many mo. Chaucer. 2. Examination or trial by the cupel; hence, any critical examination or decisive trial; as, to put a man's assertions to a test. "Bring me to the test." Shak. 3. Means of trial; as, absence is a test of love. Each test every light her muse will bear. Dryden. 4. That with which anything is compared for proof of its genuineness; a touchstone; a standard. Life, force, and beauty must to all impart, At once the source, and end, and test of art. Pope. 5. Discriminative characteristic; standard of judgment; ground of admission or exclusion. Our test excludes your tribe from benefit. Dryden. 6. Judgment; distinction; discrimination. Who would excel, when few can make a test Betwixt indifferent writing and the best Dryden. 7. (Chem.) Defn: A reaction employed to recognize or distinguish any particular substance or constituent of a compound, as the production of some characteristic precipitate; also, the reagent employed to produce such reaction; thus, the ordinary test for sulphuric acid is the production of a white insoluble precipitate of barium sulphate by means of some soluble barium salt. Test act (Eng. Law), an act of the English Parliament prescribing a form of oath and declaration against transubstantiation, which all officers, civil and military, were formerly obliged to take within six months after their admission to office. They were obliged also to receive the sacrament according to the usage of the Church of England. Blackstone. -- Test object (Optics), an object which tests the power or quality of a microscope or telescope, by requiring a certain degree of excellence in the instrument to determine its existence or its peculiar texture or markings. -- Test paper. (a) (Chem.) Paper prepared for use in testing for certain substances by being saturated with a reagent which changes color in some specific way when acted upon by those substances; thus, litmus paper is turned red by acids, and blue by alkalies, turmeric paper is turned brown by alkalies, etc. (b) (Law) An instrument admitted as a standard or comparison of handwriting in those jurisdictions in which comparison of hands is permitted as a mode of proving handwriting. -- Test tube. (Chem.) (a) A simple tube of thin glass, closed at one end, for heating solutions and for performing ordinary reactions. (b) A graduated tube. Syn. -- Criterion; standard; experience; proof; experiment; trial. -- Test, Trial. Trial is the wider term; test is a searching and decisive trial. It is derived from the Latin testa (earthen pot), which term was early applied to the fining pot, or crucible, in which metals are melted for trial and refinement. Hence the peculiar force of the word, as indicating a trial or criterion of the most decisive kind. I leave him to your gracious acceptance, whose trial shall better publish his commediation. Shak. Thy virtue, prince, has stood the test of fortune, Like purest gold, that tortured in the furnace, Comes out more bright, and brings forth all its weight. Addison. TEST Test, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Tested; p. pr. & vb. n. Testing.] 1. (Metal.) Defn: To refine, as gold or silver, in a test, or cupel; to subject to cupellation. 2. To put to the proof; to prove the truth, genuineness, or quality of by experiment, or by some principle or standard; to try; as, to test the soundness of a principle; to test the validity of an argument. Experience is the surest standard by which to test the real tendency of the existing constitution. Washington. 3. (Chem.) Defn: To examine or try, as by the use of some reagent; as, to test a solution by litmus paper. TEST Test, n. Etym: [L. testis. Cf. Testament, Testify.] Defn: A witness. [Obs.] Prelates and great lords of England, who were for the more surety tests of that deed. Ld. Berners. TEST Test, v. i. Etym: [L. testari. See Testament.] Defn: To make a testament, or will. [Obs.] TEST; TESTA Test, Tes"ta, n.; pl. E. Tests, L. Testæ. Etym: [L. testa a piece of burned clay, a broken piece of earthenware, a shell. See Test a cupel.] 1. (Zoöl.) Defn: The external hard or firm covering of many invertebrate animals. Note: The test of crustaceans and insects is composed largely of chitin; in mollusks it is composed chiefly of calcium carbonate, and is called the shell. 2. (Bot.) Defn: The outer integument of a seed; the episperm, or spermoderm. TESTABLE Test"a*ble, a. Etym: [See Testament.] 1. Capable of being tested or proved. 2. Capable of being devised, or given by will. TESTACEA Tes*ta"ce*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. L. testaceum a shelled anumal. See Testaceous.] (Zoöl.) Defn: Invertebrate animals covered with shells, especially mollusks; shellfish. TESTACEAN Tes*ta"cean, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: Onr of the Testacea. TESTACEOGRAPHY Tes*ta`ce*og"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Testacea + -graphy: cf. F. testacéographie.] Defn: The science which treats of testaceans, or shellfish; the description of shellfish. [R.] TESTACEOLOGY Tes*ta`ce*ol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Testacea + -logy: cf. F. testacéologie.] Defn: The science of testaceous mollusks; conchology. [R.] TESTACEOUS Tes*ta"ceous, a. Etym: [L. testaceus, fr. testa a shell. See Testa.] 1. Of or pertaining to shells; consisted of a hard shell, or having a hard shell. 2. (Bot. & Zoöl.) Defn: Having a dull red brick color or a brownish yellow color. Testaceous animals (Zoöl.), animals having a firm, calcareous shell, as oysters and clams, thus distinguished from crustaceous animals, whose shells are more thin and soft, and consist of several joints, or articulations, as lobsters and crabs. TESTACY Tes"ta*cy, n. Etym: [See Testate.] (Law) Defn: The state or circumstance of being testate, or of leaving a valid will, or testament, at death. TESTAMENT Tes"ta*ment, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. testamentum, fr. testari to be a witness, to make one's last will, akin to testis a witness. Cf. Intestate, Testify.] 1. (Law) Defn: A solemn, authentic instrument in writing, by which a person declares his will as to disposal of his estate and effects after his death. Note: This is otherwise called a will, and sometimes a last will and testament. A testament, to be valid, must be made by a person of sound mind; and it must be executed and published in due form of law. A man, in certain cases, may make a valid will by word of mouth only. See Nuncupative will, under Nuncupative. 2. One of the two distinct revelations of God's purposes toward man; a covenant; also, one of the two general divisions of the canonical books of the sacred Scriptures, in which the covenants are respectively revealed; as, the Old Testament; the New Testament; -- often limited, in colloquial language, to the latter. He is the mediator of the new testament . . . for the redemption of the transgressions that were under the first testament. Heb. ix. 15. Holographic testament, a testament written wholly by the testator himself. Bouvier. TESTAMENTAL Tes`ta*men"tal, a. Etym: [L. testamentalis.] Defn: Of or pertaining to a testament; testamentary. Thy testamental cup I take, And thus remember thee. J. Montgomery. TESTAMENTARY Tes`ta*men"ta*ry, a. Etym: [L. testamentarius: cf. F. testamentaire.] 1. Of or pertaining to a will, or testament; as, letters testamentary. 2. Bequeathed by will; given by testament. How many testamentary charities have been defeated by the negligence or fraud of executors! Atterbury. 3. Done, appointed by, or founded on, a testament, or will; as, a testamentary guardian of a minor, who may be appointed by the will of a father to act in that capacity until the child becomes of age. TESTAMENTATION Tes`ta*men*ta"tion, n. Defn: The act or power of giving by testament, or will. [R.] Burke. TESTAMENTIZE Tes"ta*men*tize, v. i. Defn: To make a will. [Obs.] Fuller. TESTAMUR Tes*ta"mur, n. Etym: [L., we testify, fr. testari to testify.] (Eng. Universities) Defn: A certificate of merit or proficiency; -- so called from the Latin words, Ita testamur, with which it commences. TESTATE Tes"tate, a. Etym: [L. testatus, p.p. of testari. See Testament.] (Law) Defn: Having made and left a will; as, a person is said to die testate. Ayliffe. TESTATE Tes"tate, n. (Law)