[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

Established in a safe, unenvied throne. Milton. 2. Conferring safety; securing from harm; not exposing to danger; confining securely; to be relied upon; not dangerous; as, a safe harbor; a safe bridge, etc. "The man of safe discretion." Shak. The King of heaven hath doomed This place our dungeon, not our safe retreat. Milton. 3. Incapable of doing harm; no longer dangerous; in secure care or custody; as, the prisoner is safe. But Banquo's safe Ay, my good lord, safe in a ditch he bides. Shak. Safe hit (Baseball), a hit which enables the batter to get to first base even if no error is made by the other side. Syn. -- Secure; unendangered; sure. SAFE Safe, n. Defn: A place for keeping things in safety. Specifically: (a) A strong and fireproof receptacle (as a movable chest of steel, etc., or a closet or vault of brickwork) for money, valuable papers, or the like. (b) A ventilated or refrigerated chest or closet for securing provisions from noxious animals or insects. SAFE Safe, v. t. Defn: To render safe; to make right. [Obs.] Shak. SAFE-CONDUCT Safe"-con"duct, n. Etym: [Safe + conduct: cf. F. sauf-conduit.] Defn: That which gives a safe, passage; either (a) a convoy or guard to protect a person in an enemy's country or a foreign country, or (b) a writing, pass, or warrant of security, given to a person to enable him to travel with safety. Shak. SAFE-CONDUCT Safe`-con*duct", v. t. Defn: To conduct safely; to give safe-conduct to. [POetic] He him by all the bonds of love besought To safe-conduct his love. Spenser. SAFEGUARD Safe"guard`, n. Etym: [Safe = guard: cf. F. sauvegarde.] 1. One who, or that which, defends or protects; defense; protection. Shak. Thy sword, the safeguard of thy brother's throne. Granwille. 2. A convoy or guard to protect a traveler or property. 3. A pass; a passport; a safe-conduct. Shak. SAFEGUARD Safe"guard`, v. t. Defn: To guard; to protect. Shak. SAFE-KEEPING Safe"-keep"ing, n. Etym: [Safe + keep.] Defn: The act of keeping or preserving in safety from injury or from escape; care; custody. SAFELY Safe"ly, adv. Defn: In a safe manner; danger, injury, loss, or evil consequences. SAFENESS Safe"ness, n. Defn: The quality or state of being safe; freedom from hazard, danger, harm, or loss; safety; security; as the safeness of an experiment, of a journey, or of a possession. SAFE-PLEDGE Safe"-pledge", n. (Law) Defn: A surety for the appearance of a person at a given time. Bracton. SAFETY Safe"ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. sauveté.] 1. The condition or state of being safe; freedom from danger or hazard; exemption from hurt, injury, or loss. Up led by thee, Into the heaven I have presumed, An earthly guest . . . With like safety guided down, Return me to my native element. Milton. 2. Freedom from whatever exposes one to danger or from libility to cause danger or harm; safeness; hence, the quality of making safe or secure, or of giving confidence, justifying trust, insuring against harm or loss, etc. Would there were any safety in thy sex, That I might put a thousand sorrows off. Beau. & Fl. 3. Preservation from escape; close custody. Imprison him, . . . Deliver him to safety; and return. Shak. 4. (Football) Defn: Same as Safety touchdown, below. Safety arch (Arch.), a discharging arch. See under Discharge, v. t. -- Safety belt, a belt made of some buoyant material, or which is capable of being inflated, so as to enable a person to float in water; a life preserver. -- Safety buoy, a buoy to enable a person to float in water; a safety belt. -- Safety cage (Mach.), a cage for an elevator or mine lift, having appliances to prevent it from dropping if the lifting rope should break. -- Safety lamp. (Mining) See under Lamp. -- Safety match, a match which can be ignited only on a surface specially prepared for the purpose. -- Safety pin, a pin made in the form of a clasp, with a guard covering its point so that it will not prick the wearer. -- safety plug. See Fusible plug, under Fusible. -- Safety switch. See Switch. -- Safety touchdown (Football), the act or result of a player's touching to the ground behind his own goal line a ball which received its last impulse from a man on his own side; -- distinguished from touchback. See Touchdown. -- Safety tube (Chem.), a tube to prevent explosion, or to control delivery of gases by an automatic valvular connection with the outer air; especially, a bent funnel tube with bulbs for adding those reagents which produce unpleasant fumes or violent effervescence. -- Safety valve, a valve which is held shut by a spring or weight and opens automatically to permit the escape of steam, or confined gas, water, etc., from a boiler, or other vessel, when the pressure becomes too great for safety; also, sometimes, a similar valve opening inward to admit air to a vessel in which the pressure is less than that of the atmosphere, to prevent collapse. SAFETY BICYCLE Safety bicycle. Defn: A bicycle with equal or nearly equal wheels, usually 28 inches diameter, driven by pedals connected to the rear (driving) wheel by a multiplying gear. SAFETY CHAIN Safety chain. (a) (Railroads) A normally slack chain for preventing excessive movement between a truck and a car body in sluing. (b) An auxiliary watch chain, secured to the clothes, usually out of sight, to prevent stealing of the watch. (c) A chain of sheet metal links with an elongated hole through each broad end, made up by doubling the first link on itself, slipping the next link through and doubling, and so on. SAFFLOW Saf"flow, n. (Bot.) Defn: The safflower. [Obs.] SAFFLOWER Saf"flow`er, n. Etym: [F. safeur, safior, for safran, influenced by fleur flower. See Saffron, and Flower.] 1. (Bot.) Defn: An annual composite plant (Carthamus tinctorius), the flowers of which are used as a dyestuff and in making rouge; bastard, or false, saffron. 2. The died flowers of the Carthamus tinctorius. 3. A dyestuff from these flowers. See Safranin (b). Oil of safflower, a purgative oil expressed from the seeds of the safflower. SAFFRON Saf"fron, n. Etym: [OE. saffran, F. safran; cf. It. zafferano, Sp. azafran, Pg. açafrao; all fr. Ar. & Per. za' faran.] 1. (Bot.) Defn: A bulbous iridaceous plant (Crocus sativus) having blue flowers with large yellow stigmas. See Crocus. 2. The aromatic, pungent, dried stigmas, usually with part of the stile, of the Crocus sativus. Saffron is used in cookery, and in coloring confectionery, liquors, varnishes, etc., and was formerly much used in medicine. 3. An orange or deep yellow color, like that of the stigmas of the Crocus sativus. Bastard saffron, Dyer's saffron. (Bot.) See Safflower. -- Meadow saffron (Bot.), a bulbous plant (Colchichum autumnate) of Europe, resembling saffron. -- Saffron wood (Bot.), the yellowish wood of a South African tree (Elæodendron croceum); also, the tree itself. -- Saffron yellow, a shade of yellow like that obtained from the stigmas of the true saffron (Crocus sativus). SAFFRON Saf"fron, a. Defn: Having the color of the stigmas of saffron flowers; deep orange-yellow; as, a saffron face; a saffron streamer. SAFFRON Saf"fron, v. t. Defn: To give color and flavor to, as by means of saffron; to spice. [Obs.] And in Latyn I speak a wordes few, To saffron with my predication. Chaucer. SAFFRONY Saf"fron*y, a. Defn: Having a color somewhat like saffron; yellowish. Lord (1630). SAFRANIN Saf"ra*nin, n. (Chem.) (a) An orange-red dyestuff extracted from the saffron. [R.] (b) A red dyestuff extracted from the safflower, and formerly used in dyeing wool, silk, and cotton pink and scarlet; -- called also Spanish red, China lake, and carthamin. (c) An orange-red dyestuff prepared from certain nitro compounds of creosol, and used as a substitute for the safflower dye. SAFRANINE Saf"ra*nine ( or ), n. Etym: [So called because used as a substitute for safranin.] (Chem.) Defn: An orange-red nitrogenous dyestuff produced artificailly by oxidizing certain aniline derivatives, and used in dyeing silk and wool; also, any one of the series of which safranine proper is the type. SAG Sag, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Sagged; p. pr. & vb. n. Sagging.] Etym: [Akin to Sw. sacka to settle, sink down, LG.sacken, D. zakken. Cf. Sink, v. i.] 1. To sink, in the middle, by its weight or under applied pressure, below a horizontal line or plane; as, a line or cable supported by its ends sags, though tightly drawn; the floor of a room sags; hence, to lean, give way, or settle from a vertical position; as, a building may sag one way or another; a door sags on its hinges. 2. Fig.: To lose firmness or elasticity; to sink; to droop; to flag; to bend; to yield, as the mind or spirits, under the pressure of care, trouble, doubt, or the like; to be unsettled or unbalanced. [R.] the mind I sway by, and