[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

of the ship. J. Bourne. -- Rolling fire (Mil.), a discharge of firearms by soldiers in line, in quick succession, and in the order in which they stand. -- Rolling friction, that resistance to motion experienced by one body rolling upon another which arises from the roughness or other quality of the surfaces in contact. -- Rolling mill, a mill furnished with heavy rolls, between which heated metal is passed, to form it into sheets, rails, etc. -- Rolling press. (a) A machine for calendering cloth by pressure between revolving rollers. (b) A printing press with a roller, used in copperplate printing. -- Rolling stock, or Rolling plant, the locomotives and vehicles of a railway. -- Rolling tackle (Naut.), tackle used to steady the yards when the ship rolls heavily. R. H. Dana, Jr. ROLLING-PIN Roll"ing-pin`, n. Defn: A cylindrical piece of wood or other material, with which paste or dough may be rolled out and reduced to a proper thickness. ROLLWAY Roll"way`, n. Defn: A place prepared for rolling logs into a stream. ROLLY-POLY Roll"y-po`ly, n. Defn: A kind of pudding made of paste spread with fruit, rolled into a cylindrical form, and boiled or steamed. -- a. Defn: Shaped like a rolly-poly; short and stout. [Written also roly- poly.] ROLLY-POOLY Roll"y-pool`y, n. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.] Defn: A game in which a ball, rolling into a certain place, wins. [Written also rouly-pouly.] ROLY-POLY Ro"ly-po`ly, n. & a. Defn: Rolly-poly. ROMAGE Rom"age, n. & v. Defn: See Rummage. [Obs.] Shak. ROMAIC Ro*ma"ic, a. Etym: [NGr. romaïque. See Roman.] Defn: Of or relating to modern Greece, and especially to its language. -- n. Defn: The modern Greek language, now usually called by the Greeks Hellenic or Neo-Hellenic. Note: The Greeks at the time of the capture of Constantinople were proud of being "Romai^oi, or Romans . . . Hence the term Romaic was the name given to the popular language. . . . The Greek language is now spoken of as the Hellenic language. Encyc. Brit. ROMAJIKAI Ro"ma*ji*ka`i, n. [Jap. romajikai.] Defn: An association, including both Japanese and Europeans, having for its object the changing of the Japanese method of writing by substituting Roman letters for Japanese characters. ROMAN Ro"man, a. Etym: [L. Romanus, fr. Roma Rome: cf. F. romain. Cf. Romaic, Romance, Romantic.] 1. Of or pertaining to Rome, or the Roman people; like or characteristic of Rome, the Roman people, or things done by Romans; as, Roman fortitude; a Roman aqueduct; Roman art. 2. Of or pertaining to the Roman Catholic religion; professing that religion. 3. (Print.) (a) Upright; erect; -- said of the letters or kind of type ordinarily used, as distinguished from Italic characters. (b) Expressed in letters, not in figures, as I., IV., i., iv., etc.; -- said of numerals, as distinguished from the Arabic numerals, 1, 4, etc. Roman alum (Chem.), a cubical potassium alum formerly obtained in large quantities from Italian alunite, and highly valued by dyers on account of its freedom from iron. -- Roman balance, a form of balance nearly resembling the modern steelyard. See the Note under Balance, n., 1. -- Roman candle, a kind of firework (generally held in the hand), characterized by the continued emission of shower of sparks, and the ejection, at intervals, of brilliant balls or stars of fire which are thrown upward as they become ignited. -- Roman Catholic, of, pertaining to, or the religion of that church of which the pope is the spiritual head; as, a Roman Catholic priest; the Roman Catholic Church. -- Roman cement, a cement having the property of hardening under water; a species of hydraulic cement. -- Roman law. See under Law. -- Roman nose, a nose somewhat aquiline. -- Roman ocher, a deep, rich orange color, transparent and durable, used by artists. Ure. -- Roman order (Arch.), the composite order. See Composite, a., 2. ROMAN Ro"man, n. 1. A native, or permanent resident, of Rome; a citizen of Rome, or one upon whom certain rights and privileges of a Roman citizen were conferred. 2. Roman type, letters, or print, collectively; -- in distinction from Italics. ROMAN CALENDAR Roman calendar. Defn: The calendar of the ancient Romans, from which our modern calendars are derived. It is said to have consisted originally of ten months, Martius, Aprilis, Maius, Junius, Quintilis, Sextilis, September, October, November, and December, having a total of 304 days. Numa added two months, Januarius at the beginning of the year, and Februarius at the end, making in all 355 days. He also ordered an intercalary month, Mercedinus, to be inserted every second year. Later the order of the months was changed so that January should come before February. Through abuse of power by the pontiffs to whose care it was committed, this calendar fell into confusion. It was replaced by the Julian calendar. In designating the days of the month, the Romans reckoned backward from three fixed points, the calends, the nones, and the ides. The calends were always the first day of the month. The ides fell on the 15th in March, May, July (Quintilis), and October, and on the 13th in other months. The nones came on the eighth day (the ninth, counting the ides) before the ides. Thus, Jan. 13 was called the ides of January, Jan. 12, the day before the ides, and Jan. 11, the third day before the ides (since the ides count as one), while Jan. 14 was the 19th day before the calends of February. ROMANCE Ro*mance", n. Etym: [OE. romance, romant, romaunt, OF. romanz, romans, romant, roman, F. roman, romance, fr. LL. Romanice in the Roman language, in the vulgar tongue, i. e., in the vulgar language which sprang from Latin, the language of the Romans, and hence applied to fictitious compositions written in this vulgar tongue; fr. L. Romanicus Roman, fr. Romanus. See Roman, and cf. Romanic, Romaunt, Romansch, Romanza.] 1. A species of fictitious writing, originally composed in meter in the Romance dialects, and afterward in prose, such as the tales of the court of Arthur, and of Amadis of Gaul; hence, any fictitious and wonderful tale; a sort of novel, especially one which treats of surprising adventures usually befalling a hero or a heroine; a tale of extravagant adventures, of love, and the like. "Romances that been royal." Chaucer. Upon these three columns -- chivalry, gallantry, and religion -- repose the fictions of the Middle Ages, especially those known as romances. These, such as we now know them, and such as display the characteristics above mentioned, were originally metrical, and chiefly written by nations of the north of France. Hallam. 2. An adventure, or series of extraordinary events, resembling those narrated in romances; as, his courtship, or his life, was a romance. 3. A dreamy, imaginative habit of mind; a disposition to ignore what is real; as, a girl full of romance. 4. The languages, or rather the several dialects, which were originally forms of popular or vulgar Latin, and have now developed into Italian. Spanish, French, etc. (called the Romanic languages). 5. (Mus.) Defn: A short lyric tale set to music; a song or short instrumental piece in ballad style; a romanza. Syn. -- Fable; novel; fiction; tale. ROMANCE Ro*mance", a. Defn: Of or pertaining to the language or dialects known as Romance. ROMANCE Ro*mance", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Romanced; p. pr. & vb. n. Romancing.] Defn: To write or tell romances; to indulge in extravagant stories. A very brave officer, but apt to romance. Walpole. ROMANCER Ro*man"cer, n. Defn: One who romances. ROMANCIST Ro*man"cist, n. Defn: A romancer. [R.] ROMANCY Ro*man"cy, a. Defn: Romantic. [R.] ROMANESQUE Ro`man*esque", a. Etym: [F. romanesque; cf. It. romanesco.] 1. (Arch.) Defn: Somewhat resembling the Roman; -- applied sometimes to the debased style of the later Roman empire, but esp. to the more developed architecture prevailing from the 8th century to the 12th. 2. Of or pertaining to romance or fable; fanciful. Romanesque style (Arch.), that which grew up from the attempts of barbarous people to copy Roman architecture and apply it to their own purposes. This term is loosely applied to all the styles of Western Europe, from the fall of the Western Roman Empire to the appearance of Gothic architecture. ROMANESQUE Ro`man*esque", n. Defn: Romanesque style. ROMANIC Ro*man"ic, a. Etym: [L. Romanicus. See Romance, n.] 1. Of or pertaining to Rome or its people. 2. Of or pertaining to any or all of the various languages which, during the Middle Ages, sprung out of the old Roman, or popular form of Latin, as the Italian, Spanish, Portuguese, French, Provencal, etc. 3. Related to the Roman people by descent; -- said especially of races and nations speaking any of the Romanic tongues. Romanic spelling, spelling by means of the letters of the Roman alphabet, as in English; -- contrasted with phonetic spelling. ROMANISH Ro"man*ish, a. Defn: Pertaining to Romanism. ROMANISM Ro"man*ism, n. Defn: The tenets of the Church of Rome; the Roman Catholic religion. ROMANIST Ro"man*ist,