[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

which is found in Southern Chili. It was first used as a cure for scurvy by its discoverer, Captain John Winter, vice admiral to sir Francis Drake, in 1577. WINTERTIDE Win"ter*tide`, n. Defn: Winter time. Tennyson. WINTERWEED Win"ter*weed`, n. (Bot.) Defn: A kind of speedwell (Veronica hederifolia) which spreads chiefly in winter. Dr. Prior. WINTERY Win"ter*y, a. Defn: Wintry. WINTRY Win"try, a. Etym: [AS. wintrig.] Defn: Suitable to winter; resembling winter, or what belongs to winter; brumal; hyemal; cold; stormy; wintery. Touch our chilled hearts with vernal smile, Our wintry course do thou beguile. Keble. WINY Win"y, a. Defn: Having the taste or qualities of wine; vinous; as, grapes of a winy taste. Dampier. WINZE Winze, n. (Mining.) Defn: A small shaft sunk from one level to another, as for the purpose of ventilation. WIPE Wipe, n. Etym: [Cf. Sw. vipa, Dan. vibe, the lapwing.] (Zoöl.) Defn: The lapwing. [Prov. Eng.] WIPE Wipe, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Wiped; p. pr. & vb. n. Wiping.] Etym: [OE. vipen, AS. wipian; cf. LG. wiep a wisp of straw, Sw. vepa to wrap up, to cuddle one's self up, vepa a blanket; perhaps akin to E. whip.] 1. To rub with something soft for cleaning; to clean or dry by rubbing; as, to wipe the hands or face with a towel. Let me wipe thy face. Shak. I will wipe Jerusalem as a man wipeth a dish, wiping it, and turning it upside down. 2 Kings xxi. 13. 2. To remove by rubbing; to rub off; to obliterate; -- usually followed by away, off or out. Also used figuratively. "To wipe out our ingratitude." Shak. Some natural tears they dropped, but wiped them soon. Milton. 3. To cheat; to defraud; to trick; -- usually followed by out. [Obs.] Spenser. If they by coveyne [covin] or gile be wiped beside their goods. Robynson (More's Utopia) To wipe a joint (Plumbing), to make a joint, as between pieces of lead pipe, by surrounding the junction with a mass of solder, applied in a plastic condition by means of a rag with which the solder is shaped by rubbing. -- To wipe the nose of, to cheat. [Old Slang] WIPE Wipe, n. 1. Act of rubbing, esp. in order to clean. 2. A blow; a stroke; a hit; a swipe. [Low] 3. A gibe; a jeer; a severe sarcasm. Swift. 4. A handkerchief. [Thieves' Cant or Slang] 5. Stain; brand. [Obs.] "Slavish wipe." Shak. WIPER Wip"er, n. 1. One who, or that which, wipes. 2. Something used for wiping, as a towel or rag. 3. (Mach.) Defn: A piece generally projecting from a rotating or swinging piece, as an axle or rock shaft, for the purpose of raising stampers, lifting rods, or the like, and leaving them to fall by their own weight; a kind of cam. 4. (Firearms) Defn: A rod, or an attachment for a rod, for holding a rag with which to wipe out the bore of the barrel. WIRBLE Wir"ble, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Wirbled; p. pr. & vb. n. Wirbling.] Etym: [Cf. Warble, Whirl.] Defn: To whirl; to eddy. [R.] The waters went wirbling above and around. Owen. Meredith. WIRCHE Wirche, v. i. & t. Defn: To work [Obs.] Chaucer. WIRE Wire, n. Etym: [OE. wir, AS. wir; akin to Icel. virr, Dan. vire, LG. wir, wire; cf. OHG. wiara fine gold; perhaps akin to E. withy. .] 1. A thread or slender rod of metal; a metallic substance formed to an even thread by being passed between grooved rollers, or drawn through holes in a plate of steel. Note: Wire is made of any desired form, as round, square, triangular, etc., by giving this shape to the hole in the drawplate, or between the rollers. 2. A telegraph wire or cable; hence, an electric telegraph; as, to send a message by wire. [Colloq.] Wire bed, Wire mattress, an elastic bed bottom or mattress made of wires interwoven or looped together in various ways. -- Wire bridge, a bridge suspended from wires, or cables made of wire. -- Wire cartridge, a shot cartridge having the shot inclosed in a wire cage. -- Wire cloth, a coarse cloth made of woven metallic wire, -- used for strainers, and for various other purposes. -- Wire edge, the thin, wirelike thread of metal sometimes formed on the edge of a tool by the stone in sharpening it. -- Wire fence, a fence consisting of posts with strained horizontal wires, wire netting, or other wirework, between. -- Wire gauge or gage. (a) A gauge for measuring the diameter of wire, thickness of sheet metal, etc., often consisting of a metal plate with a series of notches of various widths in its edge. (b) A standard series of sizes arbitrarily indicated, as by numbers, to which the diameter of wire or the thickness of sheet metal in usually made, and which is used in describing the size or thickness. There are many different standards for wire gauges, as in different countries, or for different kinds of metal, the Birmingham wire gauges and the American wire gauge being often used and designated by the abbreviations B. W.G. and A. W.G. respectively. -- Wire gauze, a texture of finely interwoven wire, resembling gauze. -- Wire grass (Bot.), either of the two common grasses Eleusine Indica, valuable for hay and pasture, and Poa compressa, or blue grass. See Blue grass. -- Wire grub (Zoöl.), a wireworm. -- Wire iron, wire rods of iron. -- Wire lathing, wire cloth or wire netting applied in the place of wooden lathing for holding plastering. -- Wire mattress. See Wire bed, above. -- Wire micrometer, a micrometer having spider lines, or fine wires, across the field of the instrument. -- Wire nail, a nail formed of a piece of wire which is headed and pointed. -- Wire netting, a texture of woven wire coarser than ordinary wire gauze. -- Wire rod, a metal rod from which wire is formed by drawing. -- Wire rope, a rope formed wholly, or in great part, of wires. WIRE Wire, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Wired; p. pr. & vb. n. Wiring.] 1. To bind with wire; to attach with wires; to apply wire to; as, to wire corks in bottling liquors. 2. To put upon a wire; as, to wire beads. 3. To snare by means of a wire or wires. 4. To send (a message) by telegraph. [Colloq.] WIRE Wire, v. i. 1. To pass like a wire; to flow in a wirelike form, or in a tenuous stream. [R.] P. Fletcher. 2. To send a telegraphic message. [Colloq.] WIREDRAW Wire"draw`, v. t. [imp. Wiredrew; p. p. Wiredrawn; p. pr. & vb. n. Wiredrawing.] 1. To form (a piece of metal) into wire, by drawing it through a hole in a plate of steel. 2. Hence, to draw by art or violence. My sense has been wiredrawn into blasphemy. Dryden. 3. Hence, also, to draw or spin out to great length and tenuity; as, to wiredraw an argument. Such twisting, such wiredrawing, was never seen in a court of justice. Macaulay. 4. (Steam Engine) Defn: To pass, or to draw off, (as steam) through narrow ports, or the like, thus reducing its pressure or force by friction. WIRE-DRAWER Wire"-draw`er, n. Defn: One who draws metal into wire. WIRE GUN Wire gun. Defn: = Wire-wound gun. WIRE-HEEL Wire"-heel`, n. (Far.) Defn: A disease in the feet of a horse or other beast. WIRELESS Wire"less, a. Defn: Having no wire; specif. (Elec.), Defn: designating, or pertaining to, a method of telegraphy, telephony, etc., in which the messages, etc., are transmitted through space by electric waves; as, a wireless message. -- Wireless telegraphy or telegraph (Elec.), any system of telegraphy employing no connecting wire or wires between the transmitting and receiving stations. Although more or less successful researchers were made on the subject by Joseph Henry, Hertz, Oliver Lodge, and others, the first commercially successful system was that of Guglielmo Marconi, patented in March, 1897. Marconi employed electric waves of high frequency set up by an induction coil in an oscillator, these waves being launched into space through a lofty antenna. The receiving apparatus consisted of another antenna in circuit with a coherer and small battery for operating through a relay the ordinary telegraphic receiver. This apparatus contains the essential features of all the systems now in use. -- Wireless telephone, an apparatus or contrivance for wireless telephony. --Wireless telephony, telephony without wires, usually employing electric waves of high frequency emitted from an oscillator or generator, as in wireless telegraphy. A telephone transmitter causes fluctuations in these waves, it being the fluctuations only which affect the receiver. WIRELESS Wire"less, n. Defn: Short for Wireless telegraphy, Wireless telephony, etc.; as, to send a message by wireless. WIRE-PULLER Wire"-pull`er, n. Defn: One who pulls the wires, as of a puppet; hence, one who operates by secret means; an intriguer. Political wire-pullers and convention packers. Lowell.