[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

Defn: The office or dignity of a doge. DOGBANE Dog"bane`, n. Etym: [Said to be poisonous to dogs. Cf. Apocynaceous.] (Bot.) Defn: A small genus of perennial herbaceous plants, with poisonous milky juice, bearing slender pods pods in pairs. DOG BEE Dog" bee`. Defn: A male or drone bee. Halliwell. DOGBERRY Dog"ber`ry, n. (Bot.) Defn: The berry of the dogwood; -- called also dogcherry. Dr. Prior. Dogberry tree (Bot.), the dogwood. DOGBOLT Dog"bolt`, n. (Gun.) Defn: The bolt of the cap-square over the trunnion of a cannon. Knight. DOG-BRIER Dog"-bri`er, n. (Bot.) Defn: The dog-rose. DOGCART Dog"cart`, n. Defn: A light one-horse carriage, commonly two-wheeled, patterned after a cart. The original dogcarts used in England by sportsmen had a box at the back for carrying dogs. DOG DAY; DOGDAY Dog" day` or Dog"day`. Defn: One of the dog days. Dogday cicada (Zoöl.), a large American cicada (C. pruinosa), which trills loudly in midsummer. DOG DAYS Dog" days`. Defn: A period of from four to six weeks, in the summer, variously placed by almanac makers between the early part of July and the early part of September; canicular days; -- so called in reference to the rising in ancient times of the Dog Star (Sirius) with the sun. Popularly, the sultry, close part of the summer. Note: The conjunction of the rising of the Dog Star with the rising of the sun was regarded by the ancients as one of the causes of the sultry heat of summer, and of the maladies which then prevailed. But as the conjunction does not occur at the same time in all latitudes, and is not constant in the same region for a long period, there has been much variation in calendars regarding the limits of the dog days. The astronomer Roger Long states that in an ancient calendar in Bede (died 735) the beginning of dog days is placed on the 14th of July; that in a calendar prefixed to the Common Prayer, printed in the time of Queen Elizabeth, they were said to begin on the 6th of July and end on the 5th of September; that, from the Restoration (1660) to the beginning of New Style (1752), British almanacs placed the beginning on the 19th of July and the end on the 28th of August; and that after 1752 the beginning was put on the 30th of July, the end on the 7th of September. Some English calendars now put the beginning on July 3d, and the ending on August 11th. A popular American almanac of the present time (1890) places the beginning on the 25th of July, and the end on the 5th of September. DOGDRAW Dog"draw`, n. (Eng. Forest Law) Defn: The act of drawing after, or pursuing, deer with a dog. Cowell. DOGE Doge, n. Etym: [It doge, dogio, for duce, duca, fr. L. dux, ducis, a leader, commander. See Duke.] Defn: The chief magistrate in the republics of Venice and Genoa. DOG-EARED Dog"-eared`, a. Defn: Having the corners of the leaves turned down and soiled by careless or long-continued usage; -- said of a book. Statute books before unopened, not dog-eared. Ld. Mansfield. DOGEATE Doge"ate, n. Defn: Dogate. Wright. DOGELESS Doge"less, a. Defn: Without a doge. Byron. DOG-FACED Dog"-faced`, a. Defn: Having a face resembling that of a dog. Dog-faced baboon (Zoöl.), any baboon of the genus Cynocephalus. See Drill. DOG FANCIER Dog" fan`cier. Defn: One who has an unusual fancy for, or interest in, dogs; also, one who deals in dogs. DOGFISH Dog"fish`, n. (Zoöl.) 1. A small shark, of many species, of the genera Mustelus, Scyllium, Spinax, etc. Note: The European spotted dogfishes (Scyllium catudus, and S. canicula) are very abundant; the American smooth, or blue dogfish is Mustelus canis; the common picked, or horned dogfish (Squalus acanthias) abundant on both sides of the Atlantic. 2. The bowfin (Amia calva). See Bowfin. 3. The burbot of Lake Erie. DOG-FOX Dog"-fox`, n. (Zoöl.) (a) A male fox. See the Note under Dog, n., 6. Sir W. Scott. (b) The Arctic or blue fox; -- a name also applied to species of the genus Cynalopex. DOGGED Dog"ged, a. Etym: [Fron. Dog.] 1. Sullen; morose. [Obs. or R.] The sulky spite of a temper naturally dogged. Sir W. Scott. 2. Sullenly obstinate; obstinately determined or persistent; as, dogged resolution; dogged work. DOGGEDLY Dog"ged*ly, adv. Defn: In a dogged manner; sullenly; with obstinate resolution. DOGGEDNESS Dog"ged*ness, n. 1. Sullenness; moroseness. [R.] 2. Sullen or obstinate determination; grim resolution or persistence. DOGGER Dog"ger, n. Etym: [D., fr. dogger codfish, orig. used in the catching of codfish.] (Naut.) Defn: A two-masted fishing vessel, used by the Dutch. DOGGER Dog"ger, n. Defn: A sort of stone, found in the mines with the true alum rock, chiefly of silica and iron. DOGGEREL Dog"ger*el, a. Etym: [OE. dogerel.] Defn: Low in style, and irregular in measure; as, doggerel rhymes. This may well be rhyme doggerel, quod he. Chaucer. DOGGEREL Dog"ger*el, n. Defn: A sort of loose or irregular verse; mean or undignified poetry. Doggerel like that of Hudibras. Addison. The ill-spelt lines of doggerel in which he expressed his reverence for the brave sufferers. Macaulay. DOGGERMAN Dog"ger*man, n. Defn: A sailor belonging to a dogger. DOGGET Dog"get, n. Defn: Docket. See Docket. [Obs.] DOGGISH Dog"gish, a. Defn: Like a dog; having the bad qualities of a dog; churlish; growling; brutal. -- Dog"*gish*ly, adv. -- Dog"gish*ness, n. DOGGREL Dog"grel, a. & n. Defn: Same as Doggerel. DOG-HEADED Dog"-head`ed, a. (Zoöl.) Defn: Having a head shaped like that of a dog; -- said of certain baboons. DOG-HEARTED Dog"-heart`ed, a. Defn: Inhuman; cruel. Shak. DOGHOLE Dog"hole`, n. Defn: A place fit only for dogs; a vile, mean habitation or apartment. Dryden. DOG-LEGGED dog"-leg`ged, a. (Arch) Defn: Noting a flight of stairs, consisting of two or more straight portions connected by a platform (landing) or platforms, and running in opposite directions without an intervening wellhole. DOGMA Dog"ma, n.; pl. E. Dogmas, L. Dogmata. Etym: [L. dogma, Gr. pl. , fr. decet it is becoming. Cf. Decent.] 1. That which is held as an opinion; a tenet; a doctrine. The obscure and loose dogmas of early antiquity. Whewell. 2. A formally stated and authoritatively settled doctrine; a definite, established, and authoritative tenet. 3. A doctrinal notion asserted without regard to evidence or truth; an arbitrary dictum. Syn. -- tenet; opinion; proposition; doctrine. -- Dogma, Tenet. A tenet is that which is maintained as true with great firmness; as, the tenets of our holy religion. A dogma is that which is laid down with authority as indubitably true, especially a religious doctrine; as, the dogmas of the church. A tenet rests on its own intrinsic merits or demerits; a dogma rests on authority regarded as competent to decide and determine. Dogma has in our language acquired, to some extent, a repulsive sense, from its carrying with it the idea of undue authority or assumption. this is more fully the case with its derivatives dogmatical and dogmatism. DOGMATIC Dog*mat"ic, n. Defn: One of an ancient sect of physicians who went by general principles; -- opposed to the Empiric. DOGMATIC; DOGMATICAL Dog*mat"ic, Dog*mat`ic*al, a. Etym: [L. dogmaticus, Gr. dogmatique.] 1. Pertaining to a dogma, or to an established and authorized doctrine or tenet. 2. Asserting a thing positively and authoritatively; positive; magisterial; hence, arrogantly authoritative; overbearing. Critics write in a positive, dogmatic way. Spectator. [They] are as assertive and dogmatical as if they were omniscient. Glanvill. Dogmatic theology. Same as Dogmatics. Syn. -- Magisterial; arrogant. See Magisterial. DOGMATICALLY Dog*mat"ic*al*ly, adv. Defn: In a dogmatic manner; positively; magisterially. DOGMATICALNESS Dog*mat"ic*al*ness, n. Defn: The quality of being dogmatical; positiveness. DOGMATICIAN Dog`ma*ti"cian, n. Defn: A dogmatist. DOGMATICS Dog*mat"ics, n. Defn: The science which treats of Christian doctrinal theology. DOGMATISM Dog"ma*tism, n. Defn: The manner or character of a dogmatist; arrogance or positiveness in stating opinion. The self-importance of his demeanor, and the dogmatism of his conversation. Sir W. Scott. DOGMATIST Dog"ma*tist, n. Etym: [L. dogmatistes, Gr. Defn: One who dogmatizes; one who speaks dogmatically; a bold and arrogant advancer of principles. I expect but little success of all this upon the dogmatist; his opinioned assurance is paramount to argument. Glanvill. DOGMATIZE Dog"ma*tize, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Dogmatized; p. pr. & vb. n. Dogmatizing.] Etym: [L. dogmatizare to lay down an opinion, Gr. dogmatiser. See Dogma.] Defn: To assert positively; to teach magisterially or with bold and undue confidence; to advance with arrogance. The pride of dogmatizing schools. Blackmore. DOGMATIZE Dog"ma*tize, v. t. Defn: To deliver as a dogma. [R.] DOGMATIZER Dog"ma*ti`zer, n. Defn: One who dogmatizes; a bold asserter; a magisterial teacher. Hammond. DOG-ROSE Dog"-rose`, n. (Bot.) Defn: A common European wild rose, with single pink or white flowers. DOG'S-BANE Dog's"-bane`, n. (Bot.) Defn: See Dogbane. DOG'S-EAR Dog's"-ear`, n. Defn: The corner of a leaf, in a book, turned down like the ear of a dog. Gray. -- Dog's"-eared`, a. Cowper. DOGSHIP Dog"ship, n. Defn: The character, or individuality, of a dog. DOGSHORE Dog"shore`,