[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

Sw., & Dan. horn, Goth. haúrn, W., Gael., & Ir. corn, L. cornu, Gr. cheer, cranium, cerebral; cf. Skr. çiras head. Cf. Carat, Corn on the foot, Cornea, Corner, Cornet, Cornucopia, Hart.] 1. A hard, projecting, and usually pointed organ, growing upon the heads of certain animals, esp. of the ruminants, as cattle, goats, and the like. The hollow horns of the Ox family consist externally of true horn, and are never shed. 2. The antler of a deer, which is of bone throughout, and annually shed and renewed. 3. (Zoöl.) Defn: Any natural projection or excrescence from an animal, resembling or thought to resemble a horn in substance or form; esp.: (a) A projection from the beak of a bird, as in the hornbill. (b) A tuft of feathers on the head of a bird, as in the horned owl. (c) A hornlike projection from the head or thorax of an insect, or the head of a reptile, or fish. (d) A sharp spine in front of the fins of a fish, as in the horned pout. 4. (Bot.) Defn: An incurved, tapering and pointed appendage found in the flowers of the milkweed (Asclepias). 5. Something made of a horn, or in resemblance of a horn; as: (a) A wind instrument of music; originally, one made of a horn (of an ox or a ram); now applied to various elaborately wrought instruments of brass or other metal, resembling a horn in shape. "Wind his horn under the castle wall." Spenser. See French horn, under French. (b) A drinking cup, or beaker, as having been originally made of the horns of cattle. "Horns of mead and ale." Mason. (c) The cornucopia, or horn of plenty. See Cornucopia. "Fruits and flowers from Amalthæa's horn." Milton. (d) A vessel made of a horn; esp., one designed for containing powder; anciently, a small vessel for carrying liquids. "Samuel took the hornof oil and anointed him [David]." 1 Sam. xvi. 13. (e) The pointed beak of an anvil. (f) The high pommel of a saddle; also, either of the projections on a lady's saddle for supporting the leg. (g) (Arch.) The Ionic volute. (h) (Naut.) The outer end of a crosstree; also, one of the projections forming the jaws of a gaff, boom, etc. (i) (Carp.) A curved projection on the fore part of a plane. (j) One of the projections at the four corners of the Jewish altar of burnt offering. "Joab . . . caught hold on the horns of the altar." 1 Kings ii. 28. 6. One of the curved ends of a crescent; esp., an extremity or cusp of the moon when crescent-shaped. The moon Wears a wan circle round her blunted horns. Thomson. 7. (Mil.) Defn: The curving extremity of the wing of an army or of a squadron drawn up in a crescentlike form. Sharpening in mooned horns Their phalanx. Milton. 8. The tough, fibrous material of which true horns are composed, being, in the Ox family, chiefly albuminous, with some phosphate of lime; also, any similar substance, as that which forms the hoof crust of horses, sheep, and cattle; as, a spoon of horn. 9. (Script.) Defn: A symbol of strength, power, glory, exaltation, or pride. The Lord is . . . the horn of my salvation. Ps. xviii. 2. 10. An emblem of a cuckold; -- used chiefly in the plural. "Thicker than a cuckold's horn." Shak. Horn block, the frame or pedestal in which a railway car axle box slides up and down; -- also called horn plate. -- Horn of a dilemma. See under Dilemma. -- Horn distemper, a disease of cattle, affecting the internal substance of the horn. -- Horn drum, a wheel with long curved scoops, for raising water. -- Horn lead (Chem.), chloride of lead. -- Horn maker, a maker of cuckolds. [Obs.] Shak. -- Horn mercury. (Min.) Same as Horn quicksilver (below). -- Horn poppy (Bot.), a plant allied to the poppy (Glaucium luteum), found on the sandy shores of Great Britain and Virginia; -- called also horned poppy. Gray. -- Horn pox (Med.), abortive smallpox with an eruption like that of chicken pox. -- Horn quicksilver (Min.), native calomel, or bichloride of mercury. -- Horn shell (Zoöl.), any long, sharp, spiral, gastropod shell, of the genus Cerithium, and allied genera. -- Horn silver (Min.), cerargyrite. -- Horn slate, a gray, siliceous stone. -- To haul in one's horns, to withdraw some arrogant pretension. [Colloq.] -- To raise, or lift, the horn (Script.), to exalt one's self; to act arrogantly. "'Gainst them that raised thee dost thou lift thy horn" Milton. -- To take a horn, to take a drink of intoxicating liquor. [Low] HORN Horn, v. t. 1. To furnish with horns; to give the shape of a horn to. 2. To cause to wear horns; to cuckold. [Obs.] Shak. HORNBEAK Horn"beak`, n. Defn: A fish. See Hornfish. HORNBEAM Horn"beam`, n. Etym: [See Beam.] (Bot.) Defn: A tree of the genus Carpinus (C. Americana), having a smooth gray bark and a ridged trunk, the wood being white and very hard. It is common along the banks of streams in the United States, and is also called ironwood. The English hornbeam is C. Betulus. The American is called also blue beech and water beech. Hop hornbeam. (Bot.) See under Hop. HORNBILL Horn"bill`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: Any bird of the family Bucerotidæ, of which about sixty species are known, belonging to numerous genera. They inhabit the tropical parts of Asia, Africa, and the East Indies, and are remarkable for having a more or less horn-like protuberance, which is usually large and hollow and is situated on the upper side of the beak. The size of the hornbill varies from that of a pigeon to that of a raven, or even larger. They feed chiefly upon fruit, but some species eat dead animals. HORNBLENDE Horn"blende`, n. Etym: [G., fr. horn horn + blende blende.] (Min.) Defn: The common black, or dark green or brown, variety of amphibole. (See Amphibole.) It belongs to the aluminous division of the species, and is also characterized by its containing considerable iron. Also used as a general term to include the whole species. Hornblende schist (Geol.), a hornblende rock of schistose structure. HORNBLENDIC Horn*blend"ic, a. Defn: Composed largely of hornblende; resembling or relating to hornblende. HORNBLOWER Horn"blow`er, n. Etym: [AS. hornblawere.] Defn: One who, or that which, blows a horn. HORNBOOK Horn"book`, n. 1. The first book for children, or that from which in former times they learned their letters and rudiments; -- so called because a sheet of horn covered the small, thin board of oak, or the slip of paper, on which the alphabet, digits, and often the Lord's Prayer, were written or printed; a primer. "He teaches boys the hornbook." Shak. 2. A book containing the rudiments of any science or branch of knowledge; a manual; a handbook. HORNBUG Horn"bug`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: A large nocturnal beetle of the genus Lucanus (as L. capreolus, and L. dama), having long, curved upper jaws, resembling a sickle. The grubs are found in the trunks of old trees. HORNED Horned, a. Defn: Furnished with a horn or horns; furnished with a hornlike process or appendage; as, horned cattle; having some part shaped like a horn. The horned moon with one bright star Within the nether tip. Coleridge. Horned bee (Zoöl.), a British wild bee (Osmia bicornis), having two little horns on the head. -- Horned dace (Zoöl.), an American cyprinoid fish (Semotilus corporialis) common in brooks and ponds; the common chub. See Illust. of Chub. -- Horned frog (Zoöl.), a very large Brazilian frog (Ceratophrys cornuta), having a pair of triangular horns arising from the eyelids. -- Horned grebe (Zoöl.), a species of grebe (Colymbus auritus), of Arctic Europe and America, having two dense tufts of feathers on the head. -- Horned horse (Zoöl.), the gnu. -- Horned lark (Zoöl.), the shore lark. -- Horned lizard (Zoöl.), the horned toad. -- Horned owl (Zoöl.), a large North American owl (Bubo Virginianus), having a pair of elongated tufts of feathers on the head. Several distinct varieties are known; as, the Arctic, Western, dusky, and striped horned owls, differing in color, and inhabiting different regions; -- called also great horned owl, horn owl, eagle owl, and cat owl. Sometimes also applied to the long-eared owl. See Eared owl, under Eared. -- Horned poppy. (Bot.) See Horn poppy, under Horn. -- Horned pout (Zoöl.), an American fresh-water siluroid fish; the bullpout. -- Horned rattler (Zoöl.), a species of rattlesnake (Crotalus cerastes), inhabiting the dry, sandy plains, from California to Mexico. It has a pair of triangular horns between the eyes; -- called also sidewinder. -- Horned ray (Zoöl.), the sea devil. -- Horned screamer (Zoöl.), the kamichi. -- Horned snake (Zoöl.), the cerastes. -- Horned toad (Zoöl.), any lizard of the genus Phrynosoma, of which nine or ten species are known. These lizards have several hornlike spines on the head,