[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

2. (Kinematics) Defn: Velocity of rotation about some specified axis. go for a spin take a spin, take a trip in a wheeled vehicle, usu. an automobile. SPINA BIFIDA Spi"na bif"i*da. (Med.) Etym: [L., cleft spine.] Defn: A congenital malformation in which the spinal column is cleft at its lower portion, and the membranes of the spinal cord project as an elastic swelling from the gap thus formed. SPINACEOUS Spi*na"ceous, a. (Bot.) Defn: Of, pertaining to, or resembling, the plant spinach, or the family of plants to which it belongs. SPINACH; SPINAGE Spin"ach, Spin"age, n. Etym: [OF. espinache, espinoche, F. épinard; cf. F. spinace, Sp. espinaca; all fr. Ar. isfanaj, isfinaj, aspanakh, probably of Persian origin.] (Bot.) Defn: A common pot herb (Spinacia oleracea) belonging to the Goosefoot family. Mountain spinach. See Garden orache, under Orache. -- New Zealand spinach (Bot.), a coarse herb (Tetragonia expansa), a poor substitute for spinach. Note: Various other pot herbs are locally called spinach. SPINAL Spi"nal, a. Etym: [L. spinalis, fr. spina the spine: cf. F. spinal. See Spine.] 1. (Anat.) Defn: Of, pertaining to, or in the region of, the backbone, or vertebral column; rachidian; vertebral. 2. Of or pertaining to a spine or spines. Spinal accessory nerves, the eleventh pair of cranial nerves in the higher vertebrates. They originate from the spinal cord and pass forward into the skull, from which they emerge in company with the pneumogastrics. -- Spinal column, the backbone, or connected series or vertebræ which forms the axis of the vertebrate skeleton; the spine; rachis; vertebral column. -- Spinal cord, the great nervous cord extending backward from the brain along the dorsal side of the spinal column of a vertebrate animal, and usually terminating in a threadlike appendage called the filum terminale; the spinal, or vertebral, marrow; the myelon. The nervous tissue consists of nerve fibers and nerve cells, the latter being confined to the so-called gray matter of the central portions of the cord, while the peripheral white matter is composed of nerve fibers only. The center of the cord is traversed by a slender canal connecting with the ventricles of the brain. SPINATE Spi"nate, a. Defn: Bearing a spine; spiniform. SPINDLE Spin"dle, n. Etym: [AS. spinal, fr. spinnan to spin; akin to D. spil, G. spille, spindel, OHG. spinnala. sq. root170. See Spin.] 1. The long, round, slender rod or pin in spinning wheels by which the thread is twisted, and on which, when twisted, it is wound; also, the pin on which the bobbin is held in a spinning machine, or in the shuttle of a loom. 2. A slender rod or pin on which anything turns; an axis; as, the spindle of a vane. Specifically: --(a) (Mach.) Defn: The shaft, mandrel, or arbor, in a machine tool, as a lathe or drilling machine, etc., which causes the work to revolve, or carries a tool or center, etc. (b) (Mach.) The vertical rod on which the runner of a grinding mill turns. (c) (Founding) A shaft or pipe on which a core of sand is formed. 3. The fusee of a watch. 4. A long and slender stalk resembling a spindle. 5. A yarn measure containing, in cotton yarn, 15,120 yards; in linen yarn, 14,400 yards. 6. (Geom.) Defn: A solid generated by the revolution of a curved line about its base or double ordinate or chord. 7. (Zoöl.) (a) Any marine univalve shell of the genus Rostellaria; -- called also spindle stromb. (b) Any marine gastropod of the genus Fusus. Dead spindle (Mach.), a spindle in a machine tool that does not revolve; the spindle of the tailstock of a lathe. -- Live spindle (Mach.), the revolving spindle of a machine tool; the spindle of the headstock of a turning lathe. -- Spindle shell. (Zoöl.) See Spindle, 7. above. -- Spindle side, the female side in descent; in the female line; opposed to spear side. Ld. Lytton. [R.] "King Lycaon, grandson, by the spindle side, of Oceanus." Lowell. -- Spindle tree (Bot.), any shrub or tree of the genus Eunymus. The wood of E. Europæus was used for spindles and skewers. See Prickwood. SPINDLE Spin"dle, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Spindled(); p. pr. & vb. n. Spindling.] Defn: To shoot or grow into a long, slender stalk or body; to become disproportionately tall and slender. It has begun to spindle into overintellectuality. Lowell. SPINDLE-LEGGED Spin"dle-legged`, a. Defn: Having long, slender legs. SPINDLELEGS Spin"dle*legs`, n. Defn: A spindlehanks. SPINDLE-SHANKED Spin"dle-shanked`, a. Defn: Having long, slender legs. Addison. SPINDLESHANKS Spin"dle*shanks`, n. Defn: A person with slender shanks, or legs; -- used humorously or in contempt. SPINDLE-SHAPED Spin"dle-shaped`, a. 1. Having the shape of a spindle. 2. (Bot.) Defn: Thickest in the middle, and tapering to both ends; fusiform; -- applied chiefly to roots. SPINDLETAIL Spin"dle*tail`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: The pintail duck. [Local, U.S.] SPINDLEWORM Spin"dle*worm`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: The larva of a noctuid mmoth (Achatodes zeæ) which feeds inside the stalks of corn (maize), sometimes causing much damage. It is smooth, with a black head and tail and a row of black dots across each segment. SPINDLING Spin"dling, a. Defn: Long and slender, or disproportionately tall and slender; as, a spindling tree; a spindling boy. SPINDRIFT Spin"drift, n. Defn: Same as Spoondrift. The ocean waves are broken up by wind, ultimately producing the storm wrack and spindrift of the tempest-tossed sea. J. E. Marr. SPINE Spine, n. Etym: [L. spina thorn, the spine; akin to spica a point: cf. OF. espine, F. épine. Cf. Spike, Spinet a musical instrument, Spinny.] 1. (Bot.) Defn: A sharp appendage to any of a plant; a thorn. 2. (Zoöl.) (a) A rigid and sharp projection upon any part of an animal. (b) One of the rigid and undivided fin rays of a fish. 3. (Anat.) Defn: The backbone, or spinal column, of an animal; -- so called from the projecting processes upon the vertebræ. 4. Anything resembling the spine or backbone; a ridge. SPINEBACK Spine"back`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: A fish having spines in, or in front of, the dorsal fins. SPINEBILL Spine"bill`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: Any species of Australian birds of the genus Acanthorhynchus. They are related to the honey eaters. SPINED Spined, a. Defn: Furnished with spines; spiny. SPINE-FINNED Spine"-finned`, a. (Zoöl.) Defn: Having fine supported by spinous fin rays; -- said of certain fishes. SPINEL; SPINELLE Spi*nel", Spi*nelle", n. Etym: [F. spinelle, or LL. spinellus, perhaps from L. spina a thorn, a prickle, in allusion to its pointed crystals.] (Min.) Defn: A mineral occuring in octahedrons of great hardness and various colors, as red, green, blue, brown, and black, the red variety being the gem spinel ruby. It consist essentially of alumina and magnesia, but commonly contains iron and sometimes also chromium. Note: The spinel group includes spinel proper, also magnetite, chromite, franklinite, gahnite, etc., all of which may be regarded as composed of a sesquioxide and a protoxide in equal proportions. SPINEL Spin"el, n. Defn: Bleached yarn in making the linen tape called inkle; unwrought inkle. Knight. SPINELESS Spine"less, a. Defn: Having no spine. SPINESCENCE Spi*nes"cence, n. Defn: The state or quality of being spinescent or spiny; also, a spiny growth or covering, as of certain animals. SPINESCENT Spi*nes"cent, a.Etym: [L. spinescens, -entis, p. pr. of spinescere to know to grow thorny, fr. spina a thorn: cf. F. spinescent.] (Bot.) Defn: Becoming hard and thorny; tapering gradually to a rigid, leafless point; armed with spines. Gray. SPINET Spin"et, n. Etym: [OF. espinete, F. épinette (cf. It. spinetta), fr. L. spina a thorn; -- so called because its quills resemble thorns. See Spine.] (Mus.) Defn: A keyed instrument of music resembling a harpsichord, but smaller, with one string of brass or steel wire to each note, sounded by means of leather or quill plectrums or jacks. It was formerly much used. Dumb spinet. (Mus.) See Manichordon. SPINET Spi"net, n. Etym: [L. spinetum. See Spinny.] Defn: A spinny. [Obs.] B. Jonson. SPINETAIL Spine"tail`, n. (Zoöl.) (a) Any one or several species of swifts of the genus Acanthylis, or Chætura, and allied genera, in which the shafts of the tail feathers terminate in rigid spines. (b) Any one of several species of South American and Central American clamatorial birds belonging to Synallaxis and allied genera of the family Dendrocolaptidæ. They are allied to the ovenbirds. (c) The ruddy duck. [Local, U.S.] SPINE-TAILED Spine"-tailed, a. (Zoöl.) Defn: Having the tail quills ending in sharp, naked tips. Spine- tailed swift. (Zoöl.) See Spinetail (a). SPINETED Spin"et*ed, a. Defn: Slit; cleft. [Obs. & R.] SPINIFEROUS Spi*nif"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. spinifer; spina thorn + ferre to produce.] Defn: Producing spines; bearing thorns or spines; thorny; spiny. SPINIFEX Spin"i*fex, n. [NL.; L. spina spine + facere to make.] 1. (Bot.) A genus of chiefly Australian grasses, the seeds of which bear an elastic spine. S. hirsutus (black grass) and S. longifolius are useful as sand binders. S. paradoxusis a valuable perennial fodder plant. Also, a plant of this genus. 2. Any of several Australian