[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

See Grasshopper, and Frog hopper, Grape hopper, Leaf hopper, Tree hopper, under Frog, Grape, Leaf, and Tree. (b) The larva of a cheese fly. 6. (Naut.) Defn: A vessel for carrying waste, garbage, etc., out to sea, so constructed as to discharge its load by a mechanical contrivance; -- called also dumping scow. Bell and hopper (Metal.), the apparatus at the top of a blast furnace, through which the charge is introduced, while the gases are retained. -- Hopper boy, a rake in a mill, moving in a circle to spread meal for drying, and to draw it over an opening in the floor, through which it falls. -- Hopper closet, a water-closet, without a movable pan, in which the receptacle is a funnel standing on a draintrap. -- Hopper cock, a faucet or valve for flushing the hopper of a water-closet. HOPPERDOZER Hop"per*doz`er, n. [Hopper (as in grasshopper) + doze or dose; because conceived as putting insects to sleep or as dosing them with poison.] (Agric.) Defn: An appliance for the destruction of insects, consisting of a shallow iron box, containing kerosene or coated with tar or other sticky substance, which may be mounted on wheels. HOPPERINGS Hop"per*ings, n. (Gold Washing) Defn: Gravel retaining in the hopper of a cradle. HOPPESTERE Hop`pes*tere", a. Defn: An unexplained epithet used by Chaucer in reference to ships. By some it is defined as "dancing (on the wave)"; by others as "opposing," "warlike." T. R. Lounsbury. HOPPET Hop"pet, n. 1. A hand basket; also, a dish used by miners for measuring ore. [Prov. Eng.] 2. An infant in arms. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. HOPPING Hop"ping, n. Defn: The act of one who, or that which, hops; a jumping, frisking, or dancing. Hopping Dick (Zoöl.), a thrush of Jamaica (Merula leucogenys), resembling the English blackbird in its familiar manners, agreeable song, and dark plumage. HOPPING Hop"ping, n. Etym: [See 3rd Hop.] Defn: A gathering of hops. HOPPLE Hop"ple, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Hoppled; p. pr. & vb. n. Hoppling.] Etym: [From Hop; cf. Hobble.] 1. To impede by a hopple; to tie the feet of (a horse or a cow) loosely together; to hamper; to hobble; as, to hopple an unruly or straying horse. 2. Fig.: To entangle; to hamper. Dr. H. More. HOPPLE Hop"ple, n. Defn: A fetter for horses, or cattle, when turned out to graze; -- chiefly used in the plural. HOPPLEBUSH Hop"ple*bush`, n. Defn: Same as Hobblebush. HOPPO Hop"po, n. (a) A collector of customs, as at Canton; an overseer of commerce. (b) A tribunal or commission having charge of the revenue derived from trade and navigation. [China] Hoppo men, Chinese customhouse officers. HOPSCOTCH Hop"scotch`, n. Defn: A child's game, in which a player, hopping on one foot, drives a stone from one compartment to another of a figure traced or scotched on the ground; -- called also hoppers. HOP-THUMB Hop"-thumb`, n. Defn: See Hop-o'-my-thumb. HOPYARD Hop"yard`, n. Defn: A field where hops are raised. HORAL Ho"ral, a. Etym: [L. horalis, fr. hora hour. See Hour.] Defn: Of or pertaining to an hour, or to hours. Prior. HORALY Ho"ra*ly, adv. Defn: Hourly. [Obs.] HORARY Ho"ra*ry, a. Etym: [LL. horarius, fr. L. hora hour: cf. F. horaire. See Hour.] 1. Of or pertaining to an hour; noting the hours. Spectator. 2. Occurring once an hour; continuing an hour; hourly; ephemeral. Horary, or soon decaying, fruits of summer. Sir T. Browne. Horary circles. See Circles. HORATIAN Ho*ra"tian, a. Defn: Of or pertaining to Horace, the Latin poet, or resembling his style. HORDE Horde, n. Etym: [F. horde (cf. G. horde), fr. Turk. ord, ordi, camp; of Tartar origin.] Defn: A wandering troop or gang; especially, a clan or tribe of a nomadic people migrating from place to place for the sake of pasturage, plunder, etc.; a predatory multitude. Thomson. HORDEIC Hor*de"ic, a. Etym: [L. hordeum barley.] (Chem.) Defn: Pertaining to, or derived from, barley; as, hordeic acid, an acid identical or isomeric with lauric acid. HORDEIN Hor"de*in, n. Etym: [L. hordeum barley.] (Chem.) Defn: A peculiar starchy matter contained in barley. It is complex mixture. [R.] HORDEOLUM Hor*de"o*lum, n. Etym: [NL., fr. L. hordeolus, dim. of hordeum barley.] (Med.) Defn: A small tumor upon the eyelid, resembling a grain of barley; a sty. HORDOCK Hor"dock`, n. Defn: An unidentified plant mentioned by Shakespeare, perhaps equivalent to burdock. HORE Hore, a. Defn: Hoar. [Obs.] Chaucer. HOREHOUND Hore"hound`, n. Etym: [OE. horehune, AS. harhune; har hoar, gray + hune horehound; cf. L. cunila a species of organum, GR. kn to smell.] (Bot.) Defn: A plant of the genus Marrubium (M. vulgare), which has a bitter taste, and is a weak tonic, used as a household remedy for colds, coughing, etc. [Written also hoarhound.] Fetid horehound, or Black horehound, a disagreeable plant resembling horehound (Ballota nigra). -- Water horehound, a species of the genus Lycopus, resembling mint, but not aromatic. HORIZON Ho*ri"zon, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. horizon, fr. Gr. 1. The circle which bounds that part of the earth's surface visible to a spectator from a given point; the apparent junction of the earth and sky. And when the morning sun shall raise his car Above the border of this horizon. Shak. All the horizon round Invested with bright rays. Milton. 2. (Astron.) (a) A plane passing through the eye of the spectator and at right angles to the vertical at a given place; a plane tangent to the earth's surface at that place; called distinctively the sensible horizon. (b) A plane parallel to the sensible horizon of a place, and passing through the earth's center; -- called also rational or celestial horizon. (c) (Naut.) The unbroken line separating sky and water, as seen by an eye at a given elevation, no land being visible. 3. (Geol.) Defn: The epoch or time during which a deposit was made. The strata all over the earth, which were formed at the same time, are said to belong to the same geological horizon. Le Conte. 4. (Painting) Defn: The chief horizontal line in a picture of any sort, which determines in the picture the height of the eye of the spectator; in an extended landscape, the representation of the natural horizon corresponds with this line. Apparent horizon. See under Apparent. -- Artificial horizon, a level mirror, as the surface of mercury in a shallow vessel, or a plane reflector adjusted to the true level artificially; -- used chiefly with the sextant for observing the double altitude of a celestial body. -- Celestial horizon. (Astron.) See def. 2, above. -- Dip of the horizon (Astron.), the vertical angle between the sensible horizon and a line to the visible horizon, the latter always being below the former. -- Rational horizon, and Sensible horizon. (Astron.) See def. 2, above. -- Visible horizon. See definitions 1 and 2, above. HORIZONTAL Hor`i*zon"tal, a. Etym: [Cf. F. horizontal.] 1. Pertaining to, or near, the horizon. "Horizontal misty air." Milton. 2. Parallel to the horizon; on a level; as, a horizontalline or surface. 3. Measured or contained in a plane of the horizon; as, horizontal distance. Horizontal drill, a drilling machine having a horizontal drill spindle. -- Horizontal engine, one the piston of which works horizontally. -- Horizontal fire (Mil.), the fire of ordnance and small arms at point-blank range or at low angles of elevation. -- Horizontal force (Physics), the horizontal component of the earth's magnetic force. -- Horizontal line (Descriptive Geometry & Drawing), a constructive line, either drawn or imagined, which passes through the point of sight, and is the chief line in the projection upon which all verticals are fixed, and upon which all vanishing points are found. -- Horizontal parallax. See under Parallax. -- Horizontal plane (Descriptive Geometry), a plane parallel to the horizon, upon which it is assumed that objects are projected. See Projection. It is upon the horizontal plane that the ground plan of the buildings is supposed to be drawn. -- Horizontal projection, a projection made on a plane parallel to the horizon. -- Horizontal range (Gunnery), the distance in a horizontal plane to which a gun will throw a projectile. -- Horizontal water wheel, a water wheel in which the axis is vertical, the buckets or floats revolving in a horizontal plane, as in most turbines. HORIZONTALITY Hor`i*zon*tal"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. horizontalité.] Defn: The state or quality of being horizontal. Kirwan. HORIZONTALLY Hor`i*zon"tal*ly, adv. Defn: In a horizontal direction or position; on a level; as, moving horizontally. HORMOGONIUM Hor`mo*go*ni"um, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Bot.) Defn: A chain of small cells in certain algæ, by which the plant is propogated. HORMONE Hor"mone (hôr"mon), n. [From Gr. "orma`ein to excite.] (Physiol. Chem.) Defn: A chemical substance formed in one organ and carried in the circulation to another organ on which it exerts a stimulating effect; thus, according to Starling, the gastric glands are stimulated by a hormone from the pyloric mucous membrane. HORN Horn, n. Etym: [AS. horn; akin to D. horen, hoorn, G., Icel.,