[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

double-crowned. WALL Wall, n. Etym: [AS. weall, from L. vallum a wall, vallus a stake, pale, palisade; akin to Gr. Interval.] 1. A work or structure of stone, brick, or other materials, raised to some height, and intended for defense or security, solid and permanent inclosing fence, as around a field, a park, a town, etc., also, one of the upright inclosing parts of a building or a room. The plaster of the wall of the King's palace. Dan. v. 5. 2. A defense; a rampart; a means of protection; in the plural, fortifications, in general; works for defense. The waters were a wall unto them on their right hand, and on their left. Ex. xiv. 22. In such a night, Troilus, methinks, mounted the Troyan walls. Shak. To rush undaunted to defend the walls. Dryden. 3. An inclosing part of a receptacle or vessel; as, the walls of a steam-engine cylinder. 4. (Mining) (a) The side of a level or drift. (b) The country rock bounding a vein laterally. Raymond. Note: Wall is often used adjectively, and also in the formation of compounds, usually of obvious signification; as in wall paper, or wall-paper; wall fruit, or wall-fruit; wallflower, etc. Blank wall, Blind wall, etc. See under Blank, Blind, etc. -- To drive to the wall, to bring to extremities; to push to extremes; to get the advantage of, or mastery over. -- To go to the wall, to be hard pressed or driven; to be the weaker party; to be pushed to extremes. -- To take the wall. to take the inner side of a walk, that is, the side next the wall; hence, to take the precedence. "I will take the wall of any man or maid of Montague's." Shak. -- Wall barley (Bot.), a kind of grass (Hordeum murinum) much resembling barley; squirrel grass. See under Squirrel. -- Wall box. (Mach.) See Wall frame, below. -- Wall creeper (Zoöl.), a small bright-colored bird (Tichodroma muraria) native of Asia and Southern Europe. It climbs about over old walls and cliffs in search of insects and spiders. Its body is ash- gray above, the wing coverts are carmine-red, the primary quills are mostly red at the base and black distally, some of them with white spots, and the tail is blackish. Called also spider catcher. -- Wall cress (Bot.), a name given to several low cruciferous herbs, especially to the mouse-ear cress. See under Mouse-ear. -- Wall frame (Mach.), a frame set in a wall to receive a pillow block or bearing for a shaft passing through the wall; -- called also wall box. -- Wall fruit, fruit borne by trees trained against a wall. -- Wall gecko (Zoöl.), any one of several species of Old World geckos which live in or about buildings and run over the vertical surfaces of walls, to which they cling by means of suckers on the feet. -- Wall lizard (Zoöl.), a common European lizard (Lacerta muralis) which frequents houses, and lives in the chinks and crevices of walls; -- called also wall newt. -- Wall louse, a wood louse. -- Wall moss (Bot.), any species of moss growing on walls. -- Wall newt (Zoöl.), the wall lizard. Shak. -- Wall paper, paper for covering the walls of rooms; paper hangings. -- Wall pellitory (Bot.), a European plant (Parictaria officinalis) growing on old walls, and formerly esteemed medicinal. -- Wall pennywort (Bot.), a plant (Cotyledon Umbilicus) having rounded fleshy leaves. It is found on walls in Western Europe. -- Wall pepper (Bot.), a low mosslike plant (Sedum acre) with small fleshy leaves having a pungent taste and bearing yellow flowers. It is common on walls and rocks in Europe, and is sometimes seen in America. -- Wall pie (Bot.), a kind of fern; wall rue. -- Wall piece, a gun planted on a wall. H. L. Scott. -- Wall plate (Arch.), a piece of timber placed horizontally upon a wall, and supporting posts, joists, and the like. See Illust. of Roof. -- Wall rock, granular limestone used in building walls. [U. S.] Bartlett. -- Wall rue (Bot.), a species of small fern (Asplenium Ruta-muraria) growing on walls, rocks, and the like. -- Wall spring, a spring of water issuing from stratified rocks. -- Wall tent, a tent with upright cloth sides corresponding to the walls of a house. -- Wall wasp (Zoöl.), a common European solitary wasp (Odynerus parietus) which makes its nest in the crevices of walls. WALL Wall (, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Walled (; p. pr. & vb. n. Walling.] 1. To inclose with a wall, or as with a wall. "Seven walled towns of strength." Shak. The king of Thebes, Amphion, That with his singing walled that city. Chaucer. 2. To defend by walls, or as if by walls; to fortify. The terror of his name that walls us in. Denham. 3. To close or fill with a wall, as a doorway. WALLABA Wal"la*ba, n. (Bot.) Defn: A leguminous tree (Eperua falcata) of Demerara, with pinnate leaves and clusters of red flowers. The reddish brown wood is used for palings and shingles. J. Smith (Dict. Econ. Plants). WALLABY Wal"la*by, n.; pl. Wallabies. Etym: [From a native name.] (Zoöl.) Defn: Any one of numerous species of kangaroos belonging to the genus Halmaturus, native of Australia and Tasmania, especially the smaller species, as the brush kangaroo (H. Bennettii) and the pademelon (H. thetidis). The wallabies chiefly inhabit the wooded district and bushy plains. [Written also wallabee, and whallabee.] WALLACHIAN Wal*la"chi*an, a. [Also Walachian, Wallach, Wallack, Vlach, etc.] Defn: Of or pertaining to Wallachia, a former principality, now part of the kingdom, of Roumania. -- n. Defn: An inhabitant of Wallachia; also, the language of the Wallachians; Roumanian. WALLACK Wal"lack, a. & n. Defn: See Wallachian. WALLAH Wal"lah, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: A black variety of the jaguar; -- called also tapir tiger. [Written also walla.] WALLAROO Wal`la*roo", n. (Zoöl.) Defn: Any one of several species of kangaroos of the genus Macropus, especially M. robustus, sometimes called the great wallaroo. WALLBIRD Wall"bird`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: The spotted flycatcher. [Prov. Eng.] WALLER Wall"er, n. Defn: One who builds walls. WALLER Wall"er, n. Etym: [G.] (Zoöl.) Defn: The wels. WALLERIAN DEGENERATION Wal*le"ri*an de*gen`er*a"tion. (Med.) Defn: A form of degeneration occurring in nerve fibers as a result of their division; -- so called from Dr. Waller, who published an account of it in 1850. WALLET Wal"let, n. Etym: [OE. walet, probably the same word as OE. watel a bag. See Wattle.] 1. A bag or sack for carrying about the person, as a bag for carrying the necessaries for a journey; a knapsack; a beggar's receptacle for charity; a peddler's pack. [His hood] was trussed up in his walet. Chaucer. 2. A pocketbook for keeping money about the person. 3. Anything protuberant and swagging. "Wallets of flesh." Shak. WALLETEER Wal`let*eer", n. Defn: One who carries a wallet; a foot traveler; a tramping beggar. [Colloq.] Wright. WALL-EYE Wall"-eye`, n. Etym: [See Wall-eyed.] 1. An eye in which the iris is of a very light gray or whitish color; -- said usually of horses. Booth. Note: Jonson has defined wall-eye to be "a disease in the crystalline humor of the eye; glaucoma." But glaucoma is not a disease of the crystalline humor, nor is wall-eye a disease at all, but merely a natural blemish. Tully. In the north of England, as Brockett states, persons are said to be wall-eyed when the white of the eye is very large and distorted, or on one side. 2. (Zoöl.) (a) An American fresh-water food fish (Stizostedion vitreum) having large and prominent eyes; -- called also glasseye, pike perch, yellow pike, and wall-eyed perch. (b) A California surf fish (Holconotus argenteus). (c) The alewife; -- called also wall-eyed herring. WALL-EYED Wall"-eyed`, a. Etym: [Icel. valdeygedhr, or vagleygr; fr. vagl a beam, a beam in the eye (akin to Sw. vagel a roost, a perch, a sty in the eye) + eygr having eyes (from auga eye). See Eye.] Defn: Having an eye of a very light gray or whitish color. Booth. Note: Shakespeare, in using wall-eyed as a term of reproach (as "wall-eyed rage," a "wall-eyed wretch"), alludes probably to the idea of unnatural or distorted vision. See the Note under Wall-eye. It is an eye which is utterly and incurably perverted, an eye that knows no pity. WALLFLOWER Wall"flow`er, n. 1. (Bot.) Defn: A perennial, cruciferous plant (Cheiranthus Cheiri), with sweet-scented flowers varying in color from yellow to orange and deep red. In Europe it very common on old walls. Note: The name is sometimes extended to other species of Cheiranthus and of the related genus Erysimum, especially the American Western wallflower (Erysimum asperum), a biennial herb with orange-yellow flowers. 2. A lady at a ball, who, either from choice, or because not asked to dance, remains a spectator. [Colloq.] WALLHICK Wall"hick`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: The lesser spotted woodpecker (Dryobates minor). [Prov. Eng.] WALLING Wall"ing, n. 1. The act