[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

See Believe.] 1. Assent to a proposition or affirmation, or the acceptance of a fact, opinion, or assertion as real or true, without immediate personal knowledge; reliance upon word or testimony; partial or full assurance without positive knowledge or absolute certainty; persuasion; conviction; confidence; as, belief of a witness; the belief of our senses. Belief admits of all degrees, from the slightest suspicion to the fullest assurance. Reid. 2. (Theol.) Defn: A persuasion of the truths of religion; faith. No man can attain [to] belief by the bare contemplation of heaven and earth. Hooker. 3. The thing believed; the object of belief. Superstitious prophecies are not only the belief of fools, but the talk sometimes of wise men. Bacon. 4. A tenet, or the body of tenets, held by the advocates of any class of views; doctrine; creed. In the heat of persecution to which Christian belief was subject upon its first promulgation. Hooker. Ultimate belief, a first principle incapable of proof; an intuitive truth; an intuition. Sir W. Hamilton. Syn. -- Credence; trust; reliance; assurance; opinion. BELIEFFUL Be*lief"ful, a. Defn: Having belief or faith. BELIEVABLE Be*liev"a*ble, a. Defn: Capable of being believed; credible. -- Be*liev"a*ble*ness, n. -- Be*liev`a*bil"i*ty (, n. BELIEVE Be*lieve", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Believed; p. pr. & vb. n. Believing.] Etym: [OE. bileven (with pref. be- for AS. ge-), fr. AS. gel, gel; akin to D. gelooven, OHG. gilouban, G. glauben, OS. gil, Goth. galaubjan, and Goth. liubs dear. See Lief, a., Leave, n.] Defn: To exercise belief in; to credit upon the authority or testimony of another; to be persuaded of the truth of, upon evidence furnished by reasons, arguments, and deductions of the mind, or by circumstances other than personal knowledge; to regard or accept as true; to place confidence in; to think; to consider; as, to believe a person, a statement, or a doctrine. Our conqueror (whom I now Of force believe almighty). Milton. King Agrippa, believest thou the prophets Acts xxvi. Often followed by a dependent clause. I believe that Jesus Christ is the Son of God. Acts viii. 37. Syn. -- See Expect. BELIEVE Be*lieve", v. i. 1. To have a firm persuasion, esp. of the truths of religion; to have a persuasion approaching to certainty; to exercise belief or faith. Lord, I believe; help thou mine unbelief. Mark ix. 24. With the heart man believeth unto righteousness. Rom. x. 10. 2. To think; to suppose. I will not believe so meanly of you. Fielding. To believe in. (a) To believe that the subject of the thought (if a person or thing) exists, or (if an event) that it has occurred, or will occur; -- as, to believe in the resurrection of the dead. "She does not believe in Jupiter." J. H. Newman. (b) To believe that the character, abilities, and purposes of a person are worthy of entire confidence; -- especially that his promises are wholly trustworthy. "Let not your heart be troubled: ye believe in God, believe also in me." John xiv. 1. (c) To believe that the qualities or effects of an action or state are beneficial: as, to believe in sea bathing, or in abstinence from alcoholic beverages. -- To believe on, to accept implicitly as an object of religious trust or obedience; to have faith in. BELIEVER Be*liev"er, n. 1. One who believes; one who is persuaded of the truth or reality of some doctrine, person, or thing. 2. (Theol.) Defn: One who gives credit to the truth of the Scriptures, as a revelation from God; a Christian; -- in a more restricted sense, one who receives Christ as his Savior, and accepts the way of salvation unfolded in the gospel. Thou didst open the Kingdom of Heaven to all believers. Book of Com. Prayer. 3. (Eccl. Hist.) Defn: One who was admitted to all the rights of divine worship and instructed in all the mysteries of the Christian religion, in distinction from a catechumen, or one yet under instruction. BELIEVING Be*liev"ing, a. Defn: That believes; having belief. -- Be*liev"ing*ly, adv. BELIGHT Be*light", v. t. Defn: To illuminate. [Obs.] Cowley. BELIKE Be*like", adv. Etym: [Pref. be- (for by) + like.] Defn: It is likely or probably; perhaps. [Obs. or Archaic] -- Be*like"ly, adv. Belike, boy, then you are in love. Shak. BELIME Be*lime", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Belimed.] Defn: To besmear or insnare with birdlime. BELITTLE Be*lit"tle, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Belittled; p. pr. & vb. n. Belittling.] Defn: To make little or less in a moral sense; to speak of in a depreciatory or contemptuous way. T. Jefferson. BELIVE Be*live", adv. Etym: [Cf. Live, a.] Defn: Forthwith; speedily; quickly. [Obs.] Chaucer. BELK Belk, v. t. Etym: [See Belch.] Defn: To vomit. [Obs.] BELL Bell, n. Etym: [AS. belle, fr. bellan to bellow. See Bellow.] 1. A hollow metallic vessel, usually shaped somewhat like a cup with a flaring mouth, containing a clapper or tongue, and giving forth a ringing sound on being struck. Note: Bells have been made of various metals, but the best have always been, as now, of an alloy of copper and tin. The Liberty Bell, the famous bell of the Philadelphia State House, which rang when the Continental Congress declared the Independence of the United States, in 1776. It had been cast in 1753, and upon it were the words "Proclaim liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof." 2. A hollow perforated sphere of metal containing a loose ball which causes it to sound when moved. 3. Anything in the form of a bell, as the cup or corol of a flower. "In a cowslip's bell I lie." Shak. 4. (Arch.) Defn: That part of the capital of a column included between the abacus and neck molding; also used for the naked core of nearly cylindrical shape, assumed to exist within the leafage of a capital. 5. pl. (Naut.) Defn: The strikes of the bell which mark the time; or the time so designated. Note: On shipboard, time is marked by a bell, which is struck eight times at 4, 8, and 12 o'clock. Half an hour after it has struck "eight bells" it is struck once, and at every succeeding half hour the number of strokes is increased by one, till at the end of the four hours, which constitute a watch, it is struck eight times. To bear away the bell, to win the prize at a race where the prize was a bell; hence, to be superior in something. Fuller. -- To bear the bell, to be the first or leader; -- in allusion to the bellwether or a flock, or the leading animal of a team or drove, when wearing a bell. -- To curse by bell, book, and candle, a solemn form of excommunication used in the Roman Catholic church, the bell being tolled, the book of offices for the purpose being used, and three candles being extinguished with certain ceremonies. Nares. -- To lose the bell, to be worsted in a contest. "In single fight he lost the bell." Fairfax. -- To shake the bells, to move, give notice, or alarm. Shak. Note: Bell is much used adjectively or in combinations; as, bell clapper; bell foundry; bell hanger; bell-mouthed; bell tower, etc., which, for the most part, are self-explaining. Bell arch (Arch.), an arch of unusual form, following the curve of an ogee. -- Bell cage, or Bell carriage (Arch.), a timber frame constructed to carry one or more large bells. -- Bell cot (Arch.), a small or subsidiary construction, frequently corbeled out from the walls of a structure, and used to contain and support one or more bells. -- Bell deck (Arch.), the floor of a belfry made to serve as a roof to the rooms below. -- Bell founder, one whose occupation it is to found or cast bells. -- Bell foundry, or Bell foundery, a place where bells are founded or cast. -- Bell gable (Arch.), a small gable-shaped construction, pierced with one or more openings, and used to contain bells. -- Bell glass. See Bell jar. -- Bell hanger, a man who hangs or puts up bells. -- Bell pull, a cord, handle, or knob, connecting with a bell or bell wire, and which will ring the bell when pulled. Aytoun. -- Bell punch, a kind of conductor's punch which rings a bell when used. -- Bell ringer, one who rings a bell or bells, esp. one whose business it is to ring a church bell or chime, or a set of musical bells for public entertainment. -- Bell roof (Arch.), a roof shaped according to the general lines of a bell. -- Bell rope, a rope by which a church or other bell is rung. -- Bell tent, a circular conical-topped tent. -- Bell trap, a kind of bell shaped stench trap. BELL Bell, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Belled; p. pr. & vb. n. Belling.] Defn: To put a