[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

shriek. Bp. Bull. SCREAM Scream, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Screamed; p. pr. & vb. n. Screaming.] Etym: [Icel. skræma to scare, terrify; akin to Sw. skräma, Dan. skræmme. Cf. Screech.] Defn: To cry out with a shrill voice; to utter a sudden, sharp outcry, or shrill, loud cry, as in fright or extreme pain; to shriek; to screech. I heard the owl scream and the crickets cry. Shak. And scream thyself as none e'er screamed before. Pope. SCREAM Scream, n. Defn: A sharp, shrill cry, uttered suddenly, as in terror or in pain; a shriek; a screech. "Screams of horror." Pope. SCREAMER Scream"er, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: Any one of three species of South American birds constituting the family Anhimidæ, and the suborder Palamedeæ. They have two spines on each wing, and the head is either crested or horned. They are easily tamed, and then serve as guardians for other poultry. The crested screamers, or chajas, belong to the genus Chauna. The horned screamer, or kamichi, is Palamedea cornuta. SCREAMING Scream"ing, a. 1. Uttering screams; shrieking. 2. Having the nature of a scream; like a scream; shrill; sharp. The fearful matrons raise a screaming cry. Dryden. SCREE Scree, n. Defn: A pebble; a stone; also, a heap of stones or rocky débris. [Prov. Eng.] Southey. SCREECH Screech, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Screeched; p. pr. & vb. n. Screeching.] Etym: [Also formerly, scritch, OE. skriken, skrichen, schriken, of Scand. origin; cf. Icel. skrækja to shriek, to screech, skrija to titter, Sw. skrika to shriek, Dan. skrige; also Gael. sgreach, sgreuch, W. ysgrechio, Skr. kharj to creak. Cf. Shriek, v., Scream, v.] Defn: To utter a harsh, shrill cry; to make a sharp outcry, as in terror or acute pain; to scream; to shriek. "The screech owl, screeching loud." Shak. SCREECH Screech, n. Defn: A harsh, shrill cry, as of one in acute pain or in fright; a shriek; a scream. Screech bird, or Screech thrush (Zoöl.), the fieldfare; -- so called from its harsh cry before rain. -- Screech rain. -- Screech hawk (Zoöl.), the European goatsucker; -- so called from its note. [Prov. Eng.] -- Screech owl. (Zoöl.) (a) A small American owl (Scops asio), either gray or reddish in color. (b) The European barn owl. The name is applied also to other species. SCREECHERS Screech"ers, n. pl. (Zoöl.) Defn: The picarian birds, as distinguished from the singing birds. SCREECHY Screech"y, a. Defn: Like a screech; shrill and harsh. SCREED Screed, n. Etym: [Prov. E., a shred, the border of a cap. See Shred.] 1. (Arch.) (a) A strip of plaster of the thickness proposed for the coat, applied to the wall at intervals of four or five feet, as a guide. (b) A wooden straightedge used to lay across the plaster screed, as a limit for the thickness of the coat. 2. A fragment; a portion; a shred. [Scot.] SCREED Screed, n. Etym: [See 1st Screed. For sense 2 cf. also Gael. sgread an outcry.] 1. A breach or rent; a breaking forth into a loud, shrill sound; as, martial screeds. 2. An harangue; a long tirade on any subject. The old carl gae them a screed of doctrine; ye might have heard him a mile down the wind. Sir W. Scott. SCREEN Screen, n. Etym: [OE. scren, OF. escrein, escran, F. écran, of uncertain origin; cf. G. schirm a screen, OHG. scrim, scern a protection, shield, or G. schragen a trestle, a stack of wood, or G. schranne a railing.] 1. Anything that separates or cuts off inconvience, injury, or danger; that which shelters or conceals from view; a shield or protection; as, a fire screen. Your leavy screens throw down. Shak. Some ambitious men seem as screens to princes in matters of danger and envy. Bacon. 2. (Arch.) Defn: A dwarf wall or partition carried up to a certain height for separation and protection, as in a church, to separate the aisle from the choir, or the like. 3. A surface, as that afforded by a curtain, sheet, wall, etc., upon which an image, as a picture, is thrown by a magic lantern, solar microscope, etc. 4. A long, coarse riddle or sieve, sometimes a revolving perforated cylinder, used to separate the coarser from the finer parts, as of coal, sand, gravel, and the like. SCREEN Screen, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Screened; p. pr. & vb. n. Screening.] 1. To provide with a shelter or means of concealment; to separate or cut off from inconvience, injury, or danger; to shelter; to protect; to protect by hiding; to conceal; as, fruits screened from cold winds by a forest or hill. They were encouraged and screened by some who were in high comands. Macaulay. 2. To pass, as coal, gravel, ashes, etc., through a screen in order to separate the coarse from the fine, or the worthless from the valuable; to sift. SCREENINGS Screen"ings, n. pl. Defn: The refuse left after screening sand, coal, ashes, etc. SCREW Screw, n. Etym: [OE. scrue, OF. escroue, escroe, female screw, F. écrou, L. scrobis a ditch, trench, in LL., the hole made by swine in rooting; cf. D. schroef a screw, G. schraube, Icel. skr.] 1. A cylinder, or a cylindrical perforation, having a continuous rib, called the thread, winding round it spirally at a constant inclination, so as to leave a continuous spiral groove, between one turn and the next, -- used chiefly for producing, when revolved, motion or pressure in the direction of its axis, by the sliding of the threads of the cylinder in the grooves between the threads of the perforation adapted to it, the former being distinguished as the external, or male screw, or, more usually the screw; the latter as the internal, or female screw, or, more usually, the nut. Note: The screw, as a mechanical power, is a modification of the inclined plane, and may be regarded as a right-angled triangle wrapped round a cylinder, the hypotenuse of the marking the spiral thread of the screw, its base equaling the circumference of the cylinder, and its height the pitch of the thread. 2. Specifically, a kind of nail with a spiral thread and a head with a nick to receive the end of the screw-driver. Screws are much used to hold together pieces of wood or to fasten something; -- called also wood screws, and screw nails. See also Screw bolt, below. 3. Anything shaped or acting like a screw; esp., a form of wheel for propelling steam vessels. It is placed at the stern, and furnished with blades having helicoidal surfaces to act against the water in the manner of a screw. See Screw propeller, below. 4. A steam vesel propelled by a screw instead of wheels; a screw steamer; a propeller. 5. An extortioner; a sharp bargainer; a skinflint; a niggard. Thackeray. 6. An instructor who examines with great or unnecessary severity; also, a searching or strict examination of a student by an instructor. [Cant, American Colleges] 7. A small packet of tobacco. [Slang] Mayhew. 8. An unsound or worn-out horse, useful as a hack, and commonly of good appearance. Ld. Lytton. 9. (Math.) Defn: A straight line in space with which a definite linear magnitude termed the pitch is associated (cf. 5th Pitch, 10 (b)). It is used to express the displacement of a rigid body, which may always be made to consist of a rotation about an axis combined with a translation parallel to that axis. 10. (Zoöl.) Defn: An amphipod crustacean; as, the skeleton screw (Caprella). See Sand screw, under Sand. Archimedes screw, Compound screw, Foot screw, etc. See under Archimedes, Compound, Foot, etc. -- A screw loose, something out of order, so that work is not done smoothly; as, there is a screw loose somewhere. H. Martineau. -- Endless, or perpetual screw, a screw used to give motion to a toothed wheel by the action of its threads between the teeth of the wheel; -- called also a worm. -- Lag screw. See under Lag. -- Micrometer screw, a screw with fine threads, used for the measurement of very small spaces. -- Right and left screw, a screw having threads upon the opposite ends which wind in opposite directions. -- Screw alley. See Shaft alley, under Shaft. -- Screw bean. (Bot.) (a) The curious spirally coiled pod of a leguminous tree (Prosopis pubescens) growing from Texas to California. It is used for fodder, and ground into meal by the Indians. (b) The tree itself. Its heavy hard wood is used for fuel, for fencing, and for railroad ties. -- Screw bolt, a bolt having a screw thread on its shank, in distinction from a key bolt. See 1st Bolt, 3. -- Screw box, a device, resembling a die, for cutting the thread on a wooden screw. -- Screw dock. See under Dock. -- Screw engine, a marine engine for driving a screw propeller. -- Screw gear. See Spiral gear, under Spiral. -- Screw jack.