[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

Spenser. 2. Specifically: (a) The seat of episcopal power; a diocese; the jurisdiction of a bishop; as, the see of New York. (b) The seat of an archibishop; a province or jurisdiction of an archibishop; as, an archiepiscopal see. (c) The seat, place, or office of the pope, or Roman pontiff; as, the papal see. (d) The pope or his court at Rome; as, to appeal to the see of Rome. Apostolic see. See under Apostolic. SEE See, v. t. [imp. Saw; p. p. Seen; p. pr. & vb. n. Seeing.] Etym: [OE. seen, sen, seon, As. seón; akin to OFries. sia, D. zien, OS. & OHG. sehan, G. sehen, Icel. sja, Sw. se, Dan. see, Goth. saíhwan, and probably to L. sequi to follow (and so originally meaning, to follow with the eyes). Gr. sac. Cf. Sight, Sun to follow.] 1. To perceive by the eye; to have knowledge of the existence and apparent qualities of by the organs of sight; to behold; to descry; to view. I will new turn aside, and see this great sight. Ex. iii. 3. 2. To perceive by mental vision; to form an idea or conception of; to note with the mind; to observe; to discern; to distinguish; to understand; to comprehend; to ascertain. Go, I pray thee, see whether it be well with thy brethren. Gen. xxxvii. 14. Jesus saw that he answered discreetly. Mark xii. 34. Who 's so gross That seeth not this palpable device Shak. 3. To follow with the eyes, or as with the eyes; to watch; to regard attentivelly; to look after. Shak. I had a mind to see him out, and therefore did not care for centradicting him. Addison. 4. To have an interview with; especially, to make a call upon; to visit; as, to go to see a friend. And Samuel came no more to see Saul untill the day of his death. 1 Sam. xv. 35. 5. To fall in with; to have intercourse or communication with; hence, to have knowledge or experience of; as, to see military service. Make us glad according to the days wherein thou hast afflicted us, and the years wherein we have seen evil. Ps. xc. 15. Verily, verily, I say unto you, if a man keep my saying, he shall never see death. John viii. 51. Improvement in visdom and prudence by seeing men. Locke. 6. To accompany in person; to escort; to wait upon; as, to see one home; to see one aboard the cars. God you (him, or me, etc.) see, God keep you (him, me, etc.) in his sight; God protect you. [Obs.] Chaucer. -- To see (anything) out, to see (it) to the end; to be present at, or attend, to the end. -- To see stars, to see flashes of light, like stars; -- sometimes the result of concussion of the head. [Colloq.] -- To see (one) through, to help, watch, or guard (one) to the end of a course or an undertaking. SEE See, v. i. 1. To have the power of sight, or of perceiving by the proper organs; to possess or employ the sense of vision; as, he sees distinctly. Whereas I was blind, now I see. John ix. 25. 2. Figuratively: To have intellectual apprehension; to perceive; to know; to understand; to discern; -- often followed by a preposition, as through, or into. For judgment I am come into this world, that they which see not might see; and that they which see might be made blind. John ix. 39. Many sagacious persons will find us out, . . . and see through all our fine pretensions. Tillotson. 3. To be attentive; to take care; to give heed; -- generally with to; as, to see to the house. See that ye fall not out by the way. Gen. xiv. 24. Note: Let me see, Let us see, are used to express consideration, or to introduce the particular consideration of a subject, or some scheme or calculation. Cassio's a proper man, let me see now, -To get his place. Shak. Note: See is sometimes used in the imperative for look, or behold. "See. see! upon the banks of Boyne he stands." Halifax. To see about a thing, to pay attention to it; to consider it. -- To see on, to look at. [Obs.] "She was full more blissful on to see." Chaucer. -- To see to. (a) To look at; to behold; to view. [Obs.] "An altar by Jordan, a great altar to see to" Josh. xxii. 10. (b) To take care about; to look after; as, to see to a fire. SEECATCH See"catch, n. [Russ. siekach.] (Zoöl.) Defn: A full-grown male fur seal. [Alaska] SEED Seed, n.; pl. Seed or Seeds. Etym: [OE. seed, sed, AS. s, fr. sawan to sow; akin to D. zaad seed, G. saat, Icel. sa, s, Goth. manas seed of men. world. See Sow to scatter seed, and cf. Colza.] 1. (Bot.) (a) A ripened ovule, consisting of an embryo with one or more integuments, or coverings; as, an apple seed; a currant seed. By germination it produces a new plant. (b) Any small seedlike fruit, though it may consist of a pericarp, or even a calyx, as well as the seed proper; as, parsnip seed; thistle seed. And God said, Let the earth bring forth grass, the herb yielding seed, and the fruit tree yielding fruit after his kind, whose seed is in itself. Gen. i. 11. Note: The seed proper has an outer and an inner coat, and within these the kernel or nucleus. The kernel is either the embryo alone, or the embryo inclosed in the albumen, which is the material for the nourishment of the developing embryo. The scar on a seed, left where the stem parted from it, is called the hilum, and the closed orifice of the ovule, the micropyle. 2. (Physiol.) Defn: The generative fluid of the male; semen; sperm; -- not used in the plural. 3. That from which anything springs; first principle; original; source; as, the seeds of virtue or vice. 4. The principle of production. Praise of great acts he scatters as a seed, Which may the like in coming ages breed. Waller. 5. Progeny; offspring; children; descendants; as, the seed of Abraham; the seed of David. Note: In this sense the word is applied to one person, or to any number collectively, and admits of the plural form, though rarely used in the plural. 6. Race; generation; birth. Of mortal seed they were not held. Waller. Seed bag (Artesian well), a packing to prevent percolation of water down the bore hole. It consists of a bag encircling the tubing and filled with flax seed, which swells when wet and fills the space between the tubing and the sides of the hole. -- Seed bud (Bot.), the germ or rudiment of the plant in the embryo state; the ovule. -- Seed coat (Bot.), the covering of a seed. -- Seed corn, or Seed grain (Bot.), corn or grain for seed. -- Seed down (Bot.), the soft hairs on certain seeds, as cotton seed. -- Seed drill. See 6th Drill, 2 (a). -- Seed eater (Zoöl.), any finch of the genera Sporophila, and Crithagra. They feed mainly on seeds. -- Seed gall (Zoöl.), any gall which resembles a seed, formed, on the leaves of various plants, usually by some species of Phylloxera. -- Seed leaf (Bot.), a cotyledon. -- Seed lobe (Bot.), a cotyledon; a seed leaf. -- Seed oil, oil expressed from the seeds of plants. -- Seed oyster, a young oyster, especially when of a size suitable for transplantation to a new locality. -- Seed pearl, a small pearl of little value. -- Seed plat, or Seed plot, the ground on which seeds are sown, to produce plants for transplanting; a nursery. -- Seed stalk (Bot.), the stalk of an ovule or seed; a funicle. -- Seed tick (Zoöl.), one of several species of ticks resembling seeds in form and color. -- Seed vessel (Bot.), that part of a plant which contains the seeds; a pericarp. -- Seed weevil (Zoöl.), any one of numerous small weevels, especially those of the genus Apion, which live in the seeds of various plants. -- Seed wool, cotton wool not yet cleansed of its seeds. [Southern U.S.] SEED Seed, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Seeded; p. pr. & vb. n. Seeding.] 1. To sprinkle with seed; to plant seeds in; to sow; as, to seed a field. 2. To cover thinly with something scattered; to ornament with seedlike decorations. A sable mantle seeded with waking eyes. B. Jonson. To seed down, to sow with grass seed. SEEDBOX Seed"box`, n. (Bot.) (a) A capsule. (b) A plant (Ludwigia alternifolia) which has somewhat cubical or box-shaped capsules. SEEDCAKE Seed"cake`, n. Defn: A sweet cake or cooky containing aromatic seeds, as caraway. Tusser. SEEDCOD Seed"cod`, n. Defn: A seedlip. [Prov. Eng.] SEEDER Seed"er, n. Defn: One who, or that