[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

whapped over. Bartlett. Note: This word is used adverbially in the north of England, as in the United States, when anything vanishes, or is gone suddenly; as, whap went the cigar out of my mouth. WHAP; WHOP Whap, Whop, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Whapped; p. pr. & vb. n. Whapping.] Defn: To beat or strike. WHAP; WHOP Whap, Whop, n. Defn: A blow, or quick, smart stroke. WHAPPER; WHOPPER Whap"per, Whop"per, n. Etym: [See Whap.] Defn: Something uncommonly large of the kind; something astonishing; -- applied especially to a bold lie. [Colloq.] WHAPPING; WHOPPING Whap"ping, Whop"ping, a. Defn: Very large; monstrous; astonishing; as, a whapping story. [Colloq.] WHARF Wharf, n.; pl. Wharfs or Wharves. Etym: [AS. hwerf, hwearf, a returning, a change, from hweorfan to turn, turn about, go about; akin to D. werf a wharf, G. werft, Sw. varf a shipbuilder's yard, Dan. verft wharf, dockyard, G. werben to enlist, to engage, woo, OHG. werban to turn about, go about, be active or occupied, Icel. hverfa to turn, Goth. hwaírban, hwarbon, to walk. Cf. Whirl.] 1. A structure or platform of timber, masonry, iron, earth, or other material, built on the shore of a harbor, river, canal, or the like, and usually extending from the shore to deep water, so that vessels may lie close alongside to receive and discharge cargo, passengers, etc.; a quay; a pier. Commerce pushes its wharves into the sea. Bancroft. Out upon the wharfs they came, Knight and burgher, lord and dame. Tennyson. Note: The plural of this word is generally written wharves in the United States, and wharfs in England; but many recent English writers use wharves. 2. Etym: [AS. hwearf.] Defn: The bank of a river, or the shore of the sea. [Obs.] "The fat weed that roots itself in ease on Lethe wharf." Shak. Wharf boat, a kind of boat moored at the bank of a river, and used for a wharf, in places where the height of the water is so variable that a fixed wharf would be useless. [U. S.] Bartlett. -- Wharf rat. (Zoöl.) (a) The common brown rat. (b) A neglected boy who lives around the wharfs. [Slang] WHARF Wharf, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Wharfed; p. pr. & vb. n. Wharfing.] 1. To guard or secure by a firm wall of timber or stone constructed like a wharf; to furnish with a wharf or wharfs. 2. To place upon a wharf; to bring to a wharf. WHARFAGE Wharf"age, n. 1. The fee or duty paid for the privilege of using a wharf for loading or unloading goods; pierage, collectively; quayage. 2. A wharf or wharfs, collectively; wharfing. WHARFING Wharf"ing, n. 1. Wharfs, collectively. 2. (Hydraul. Engin.) Defn: A mode of facing sea walls and embankments with planks driven as piles and secured by ties. Knight. WHARFINGER Wharf"in*ger, n. Etym: [For wharfager.] Defn: A man who owns, or has the care of, a wharf. WHARL; WHARLING Wharl, Wharl"ing, n. Defn: A guttural pronunciation of the letter r; a burr. See Burr, n., 6. A strange, uncouth wharling in their speech. Fuller. WHARP Wharp, n. Defn: A kind of fine sand from the banks of the Trent, used as a polishing powder. [Eng.] WHAT What, pron., a., & adv. Etym: [AS. hwæt, neuter of hwa who; akin to OS. hwat what, OFries. hwet, D. & LG. wat, G. was, OHG. waz, hwaz, Icel. hvat, Sw. & Dan. hvad, Goth. hwa. sq. root182. See Who.] 1. As an interrogative pronoun, used in asking questions regarding either persons or things; as, what is this what did you say what poem is this what child is lost What see'st thou in the ground Shak. What is man, that thou art mindful of him Ps. viii. 4. What manner of man is this, that even the winds and the sea obey him! Matt. viii. 27. Note: Originally, what, when, where, which, who, why, etc., were interrogatives only, and it is often difficult to determine whether they are used as interrogatives or relatives. What in this sense, when it refers to things, may be used either substantively or adjectively; when it refers to persons, it is used only adjectively with a noun expressed, who being the pronoun used substantively. 2. As an exclamatory word: -- (a) Used absolutely or independently; - - often with a question following. "What welcome be thou." Chaucer. What, could ye not watch with me one hour Matt. xxvi. 40. (b) Used adjectively, meaning how remarkable, or how great; as, what folly! what eloquence! what courage! What a piece of work is man! Shak. O what a riddle of absurdity! Young. Note: What in this use has a or an between itself and its noun if the qualitative or quantitative importance of the object is emphasized. (c) Sometimes prefixed to adjectives in an adverbial sense, as nearly equivalent to how; as, what happy boys! What partial judges are our and hate! Dryden. 3. As a relative pronoun: -- (a) Used substantively with the antecedent suppressed, equivalent to that which, or those [persons] who, or those [things] which; -- called a compound relative. With joy beyond what victory bestows. Cowper. I'm thinking Captain Lawton will count the noses of what are left before they see their whaleboats. Cooper. What followed was in perfect harmony with this beginning. Macaulay. I know well . . . how little you will be disposed to criticise what comes to you from me. J. H. Newman. (b) Used adjectively, equivalent to the . . . which; the sort or kind of . . . which; rarely, the . . . on, or at, which. See what natures accompany what colors. Bacon. To restrain what power either the devil or any earthly enemy hath to work us woe. Milton. We know what master laid thy keel, What workmen wrought thy ribs of steel. Longfellow. (c) Used adverbially in a sense corresponding to the adjectival use; as, he picked what good fruit he saw. 4. Whatever; whatsoever; what thing soever; -- used indefinitely. "What after so befall." Chaucer. Whether it were the shortness of his foresight, the strength of his will, . . . or what it was. Bacon. 5. Used adverbially, in part; partly; somewhat; -- with a following preposition, especially, with, and commonly with repetition. What for lust [pleasure] and what for lore. Chaucer. Thus, what with the war, what with the sweat, what with the gallows, and what with poverty, I am custom shrunk. Shak. The year before he had so used the matter that what by force, what by policy, he had taken from the Christians above thirty small castles. Knolles. Note: In such phrases as I tell you what, what anticipates the following statement, being elliptical for what I think, what it is, how it is, etc. "I tell thee what, corporal Bardolph, I could tear her." Shak. Here what relates to the last clause, "I could tear her;" this is what I tell you. What not is often used at the close of an enumeration of several particulars or articles, it being an abbreviated clause, the verb of which, being either the same as that of the principal clause or a general word, as be, say, mention, enumerate, etc., is omitted. "Men hunt, hawk, and what not." Becon. "Some dead puppy, or log, orwhat not." C. Kingsley. "Battles, tournaments, hunts, and what not." De Quincey. Hence, the words are often used in a general sense with the force of a substantive, equivalent to anything you please, a miscellany, a variety, etc. From this arises the name whatnot, applied to an étagère, as being a piece of furniture intended for receiving miscellaneous articles of use or ornament. But what is used for but that, usually after a negative, and excludes everything contrary to the assertion in the following sentence. "Her needle is not so absolutely perfect in tent and cross stitch but what my superintendence is advisable." Sir W. Scott. "Never fear but what our kite shall fly as high." Ld. Lytton. What ho! an exclamation of calling. -- What if, what will it matter if; what will happen or be the result if. "What if it be a poison" Shak. -- What of this that it etc., what follows from this, that, it, etc., often with the implication that it is of no consequence. "All this is so; but what of this, my lord" Shak. "The night is spent, why, what of that" Shak. -- What though, even granting that; allowing that; supposing it true that. "What though the rose have prickles, yet't is plucked." Shak. -- What time, or What time as, when. [Obs. or Archaic] "What time I am afraid, I will trust in thee." Ps. lvi. 3. What time the morn mysterious visions brings. Pope. WHAT What, n. Defn: Something; thing; stuff. [Obs.] And gave him for to feed, Such homely what as serves the simple Spenser. WHAT What, interrog. adv. Defn: Why For what