[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

2. (R.C.Ch.) Defn: See the Note under Jesuit. SCHOLASTICAL Scho*las"tic*al, a. & n. Defn: Scholastic. SCHOLASTICALLY Scho*las"tic*al*ly, adv. Defn: In a scholastic manner. SCHOLASTICISM Scho*las"ti*cism, n. Defn: The method or subtitles the schools of philosophy; scholastic formality; scholastic doctrines or philosophy. The spirit of the old scholasticism . . . spurned laborious investigation and slow induction. J. P. Smith. SCHOLIA Scho"li*a, n. pl. Defn: See Scholium. SCHOLIAST Scho"li*ast, n. Etym: [Gr. scoliate. See Scholium.] Defn: A maker of scholia; a commentator or annotator. No . . . quotations from Talmudists and scholiasts . . . ever marred the effect of his grave temperate discourses. Macaulay. SCHOLIASTIC Scho`li*as"tic, a. Defn: Of or pertaining to a scholiast, or his pursuits. Swift. SCHOLIAZE Scho"li*aze, v. i. Etym: [Cf. Gr. Defn: To write scholia. [Obs.] Milton. SCHOLICAL Schol"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. scholicus, Gr. School.] Defn: Scholastic. [Obs.] ales. SCHOLION Scho"li*on, n. Etym: [NL.] Defn: A scholium. A judgment which follows immediately from another is sometimes called a corollary, or consectary . . . One which illustrates the science where it appears, but is not an integral part of it, is a scholion. Abp. Thomson (Laws of Thought). SCHOLIUM Scho"li*um, n.; pl. L. Scholia, E. Scholiums. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. School.] 1. Marginal anotation; an explanatory remark or comment; specifically, an explanatory comment on the text of a classic author by an early grammarian. 2. A remark or observation subjoined to a demonstration or a train of reasoning. SCHOLY Scho"ly, n. Defn: A scholium. [Obs.] Hooker. SCHOLY Scho"ly, v. i. & t. Defn: To write scholia; to annotate. [Obs.] SCHOOL School, n. Etym: [For shool a crowd; prob. confuced with school for learning.] Defn: A shoal; a multitude; as, a school of fish. SCHOOL School, n. Etym: [OE. scole, AS. sc, L. schola, Gr. Scheme.] 1. A place for learned intercourse and instruction; an institution for learning; an educational establishment; a place for acquiring knowledge and mental training; as, the school of the prophets. Disputing daily in the school of one Tyrannus. Acts xix. 9. 2. A place of primary instruction; an establishment for the instruction of children; as, a primary school; a common school; a grammar school. As he sat in the school at his primer. Chaucer. 3. A session of an institution of instruction. How now, Sir Hugh! No school to-day Shak. 4. One of the seminaries for teaching logic, metaphysics, and theology, which were formed in the Middle Ages, and which were characterized by academical disputations and subtilties of reasoning. At Cambridge the philosophy of Descartes was still dominant in the schools. Macaulay. 5. The room or hall in English universities where the examinations for degrees and honors are held. 6. An assemblage of scholars; those who attend upon instruction in a school of any kind; a body of pupils. What is the great community of Christians, but one of the innumerable schools in the vast plan which God has instituted for the education of various intelligences Buckminster. 7. The disciples or followers of a teacher; those who hold a common doctrine, or accept the same teachings; a sect or denomination in philosophy, theology, science, medicine, politics, etc. Let no man be less confident in his faith . . . by reason of any difference in the several schools of Christians. Jer. Taylor. 8. The canons, precepts, or body of opinion or practice, sanctioned by the authority of a particular class or age; as, he was a gentleman of the old school. His face pale but striking, though not handsome after the schools. A. S. Hardy. 9. Figuratively, any means of knowledge or discipline; as, the school of experience. Boarding school, Common school, District school, Normal school, etc. See under Boarding, Common, District, etc. -- High school, a free public school nearest the rank of a college. [U.S.] -- School board, a corporation established by law in every borough or parish in England, and elected by the burgesses or ratepayers, with the duty of providing public school accomodation for all children in their dictrict. -- School commitee, School board, an elected commitee of citizens having charge and care of the public schools in any district, town, or city, and responsible control of the money appropriated for school purposes. [U.S.] -- School days, the period in which youth are sent to school. -- School district, a division of a town or city for establishing and conducting schools. [U.S.] -- Sunday school, or Sabbath school, a school held on Sunday for study of the Bible and for religious instruction; the pupils, or the teachers and pupils, of such a school, collectively. SCHOOL School, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Schooled; p. pr. & vb. n. Schooling.] 1. To train in an institution of learning; to educate at a school; to teach. He's gentle, never schooled, and yet learned. Shak. 2. To tutor; to chide and admonish; to reprove; to subject to systematic disciplene; to train. It now remains for you to school your child, And ask why God's Anointed be reviled. Dryden. The mother, while loving her child with the intensity of a sole affection, had schooled herself to hope for little other return than the waywardness of an April breeze. Hawthorne. SCHOOLBOOK School"book`, n. Defn: A book used in schools for learning lessons. SCHOOLBOY School"boy`, n. Defn: A boy belonging to, or attending, a school. SCHOOLDAME School"dame`. n. Defn: A schoolmistress. SCHOOLERY School"er*y (, n. Defn: Something taught; precepts; schooling. [Obs.] penser. SCHOOLFELLOW School"fel`low, n. Defn: One bred at the same school; an associate in school. SCHOOLGIRL School"girl`, n. Defn: A girl belonging to, or attending, a school. SCHOOLHOUSE School"house`, n. Defn: A house appropriated for the use of a school or schools, or for instruction. SCHOOLING School"ing, n. 1. Instruction in school; tuition; education in an institution of learning; act of teaching. 2. Discipline; reproof; reprimand; as, he gave his son a good schooling. Sir W. Scott. 3. Compensation for instruction; price or reward paid to an instructor for teaching pupils. SCHOOLING School"ing, a. Etym: [See School a shoal.] (Zoöl.) Defn: Collecting or running in schools or shoals. Schooling species like the herring and menhaden. G. B. Goode. SCHOOLMA'AM School"ma'am, n. Defn: A schoolmistress. [Colloq.U.S.] SCHOOLMAID School"maid`, n. Defn: A schoolgirl. Shak. SCHOOLMAN School"man`, n.; pl. Schoolmen (. Defn: One versed in the niceties of academical disputation or of school divinity. Note: The schoolmen were philosophers and divines of the Middle Ages, esp. from the 11th century to the Reformation, who spent much time on points of nice and abstract speculation. They were so called because they taught in the mediæval universities and schools of divinity. SCHOOLMASTER School"mas`ter, n. 1. The man who presides over and teaches a school; a male teacher of a school. Let the soldier be abroad if he will; he can do nothing in this age. There is another personage abroad, -- a person less imposing, -- in the eyes of some, perhaps, insignificant. The schoolmaster is abroad; and I trust to him, armed with his primer, against the soldier in full military array. Brougham. 2. One who, or that which, disciplines and directs. The law was our schoolmaster, to bring us into Christ. Gal. iii. 24. SCHOOLMATE School"mate`, n. Defn: A pupil who attends the same school as another. SCHOOLMISTRESS School"mis`tress, n. Defn: A woman who governs and teaches a school; a female school- teacher. SCHOOLROOM School"room`, n. Defn: A room in which pupils are taught. SCHOOLSHIP School"ship`, n. Defn: A vessel employed as a nautical training school, in which naval apprentices receive their education at the expense of the state, and are trained for service as sailors. Also, a vessel used as a reform school to which boys are committed by the courts to be disciplined, and instructed as mariners. SCHOOL-TEACHER School"-teach`er, n. Defn: One who teaches or instructs a school. -- School"-teach`ing, n. SCHOOLWARD School"ward, adv. Defn: Toward school. Chaucer. SCHOONER Schoon"er, n. Etym: [See the Note below. Cf. Shun.] (Naut.) Defn: Originally, a small, sharp-built vessel, with two topsails on one or both masts and was called a topsail schooner. About 1840, longer vesels with three masts, fore-and-aft rigged, came into use, and since that time vesels with four masts and even with six masts, so rigged, are built. Schooners with more than two masts are designated three-masted schooners, four-masted schooners, etc. See Illustration in Appendix. Note: The fist schooner ever constructed is said to have between built in Gloucester, Massachusetts, about theyar 1713, by a Captain Andrew Robinson, and to have received its name from the following trivial circumstance: When the vessel went off the stocks into the water, a bystander cried out,"O, how she scoons!" Robinson replied, " A scooner let her be;" and, from that time, vessels thus masted and rigged have gone by this name. The word scoon is popularly used in some parts of New England to denote the act of making stones skip along the surface of water. The Scottish scon means the same thing. Both words are