[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

not luminous; dusk; as, a dusky valley. Through dusky lane and wrangling mart. Keble. 2. Tending to blackness in color; partially black; dark-colored; not bright; as, a dusky brown. Bacon. When Jove in dusky clouds involves the sky. Dryden. The figure of that first ancestor invested by family tradition with a dim and dusky grandeur. Hawthorne. 3. Gloomy; sad; melancholy. This dusky scene of horror, this melancholy prospect. Bentley. 4. Intellectually clouded. Though dusky wits dare scorn astrology. Sir P. Sidney. DUST Dust, n. Etym: [AS. dust; cf. LG. dust, D. duist meal dust, OD. doest, donst, and G. dunst vapor, OHG. tunist, dunist, a blowing, wind, Icel. dust dust, Dan. dyst mill dust; perh. akin to L. fumus smoke, E. fume. .] 1. Fine, dry particles of earth or other matter, so comminuted that they may be raised and wafted by the wind; that which is crumbled too minute portions; fine powder; as, clouds of dust; bone dust. Dust thou art, and unto dust shalt thou return. Gen. iii. 19. Stop! -- for thy tread is on an empire's dust. Byron. 2. A single particle of earth or other matter. [R.] "To touch a dust of England's ground." Shak. 3. The earth, as the resting place of the dead. For now shall sleep in the dust. Job vii. 21. 4. The earthy remains of bodies once alive; the remains of the human body. And you may carve a shrine about my dust. Tennyson. 5. Figuratively, a worthless thing. And by the merit of vile gold, dross, dust. Shak. 6. Figuratively, a low or mean condition. [God] raiseth up the poor out of the dust. 1 Sam. ii. 8. 7. Gold dust; hence: (Slang) Defn: Coined money; cash. Down with the dust, deposit the cash; pay down the money. [Slang] "My lord, quoth the king, presently deposit your hundred pounds in gold, or else no going hence all the days of your life. . . . The Abbot down with his dust, and glad he escaped so, returned to Reading." Fuller. -- Dust brand (Bot.), a fungous plant (Ustilago Carbo); -- called also smut. -- Gold dust, fine particles of gold, such as are obtained in placer mining; -- often used as money, being transferred by weight. -- In dust and ashes. See under Ashes. -- To bite the dust. See under Bite, v. t. -- To raise, or kick up, dust, to make a commotion. [Colloq.] -- To throw dust in one's eyes, to mislead; to deceive. [Colloq.] DUST Dust, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Dusted; p. pr. & vb. n. Dusting.] 1. To free from dust; to brush, wipe, or sweep away dust from; as, to dust a table or a floor. 2. To sprinkle with dust. 3. To reduce to a fine powder; to levigate. Sprat. To dyst one's jacket, to give one a flogging. [Slang.] DUSTBRUSH Dust"brush`, n. Defn: A brush of feathers, bristles, or hair, for removing dust from furniture. DUSTER Dust"er, n. 1. One who, or that which, dusts; a utensil that frees from dust. Specifically: (a) (Paper Making) A revolving wire-cloth cylinder which removes the dust from rags, etc. (b) (Milling) Defn: A blowing machine for separating the flour from the bran. 2. A light over-garment, worn in traveling to protect the clothing from dust. [U.S.] DUSTINESS Dust"i*ness, n. Defn: The state of being dusty. DUSTLESS Dust"less, a. Defn: Without dust; as a dustless path. DUSTMAN Dust"man, p.; pl. Dustmen (. Defn: One whose employment is to remove dirt and defuse. Gay. DUSTPAN Dust"pan, n. Defn: A shovel-like utensil for conveying away dust brushed from the floor. DUST-POINT Dust"-point`, n. Defn: An old rural game. With any boy at dust-point they shall play. Peacham (1620). DUSTY Dust"y, a. [Compar. Dustier; superl. Dustiest.] Etym: [AS. dystig. See Dust.] 1. Filled, covered, or sprinkled with dust; clouded with dust; as, a dusty table; also, reducing to dust. And all our yesterdays have lighted fools The way to dusty death. Shak. 2. Like dust; of the color of dust; as a dusty white. Dusty miller (Bot.), a plant (Cineraria maritima); -- so called because of the ashy-white coating of its leaves. DUTCH Dutch, a. Etym: [D. duitsch German; or G. deutsch, orig., popular, national, OD. dietsc, MHG. diutsch, tiutsch, OHG. diutisk, fr. diot, diota, a people, a nation; akin to AS. peód, OS. thiod, thioda, Goth. piuda; cf. Lith. tauta land, OIr. tuath people, Oscan touto. The English have applied the name especially to the Germanic people living nearest them, the Hollanders. Cf. Derrick, Teutonic.] Defn: Pertaining to Holland, or to its inhabitants. Dutch auction. See under Auction. -- Dutch cheese, a small, pound, hard cheese, made from skim milk. -- Dutch clinker, a kind of brick made in Holland. It is yellowish, very hard, and long and narrow in shape. -- Dutch clover (Bot.), common white clover (Trifolium repens), the seed of which was largely imported into England from Holland. -- Dutch concert, a so-called concert in which all the singers sing at the same time different songs. [Slang] -- Dutch courage, the courage of partial intoxication. [Slang] Marryat. -- Dutch door, a door divided into two parts, horizontally, so arranged that the lower part can be shut and fastened, while the upper part remains open. -- Dutch foil, Dutch leaf, or Dutch gold, a kind of brass rich in copper, rolled or beaten into thin sheets, used in Holland to ornament toys and paper; -- called also Dutch mineral, Dutch metal, brass foil, and bronze leaf. -- Dutch liquid (Chem.), a thin, colorless, volatile liquid, C2H4Cl2, of a sweetish taste and a pleasant ethereal odor, produced by the union of chlorine and ethylene or olefiant gas; -- called also Dutch oil. It is so called because discovered (in 1795) by an association of four Hollandish chemists. See Ethylene, and Olefiant. -- Dutch oven, a tin screen for baking before an open fire or kitchen range; also, in the United States, a shallow iron kettle for baking, with a cover to hold burning coals. -- Dutch pink, chalk, or whiting dyed yellow, and used in distemper, and for paper staining. etc. Weale. -- Dutch rush (Bot.), a species of horsetail rush or Equisetum (E. hyemale) having a rough, siliceous surface, and used for scouring and polishing; -- called also scouring rush, and shave grass. See Equisetum. -- Dutch tile, a glazed and painted ornamental tile, formerly much exported, and used in the jambs of chimneys and the like. Note: Dutch was formerly used for German. Germany is slandered to have sent none to this war [the Crusades] at this first voyage; and that other pilgrims, passing through that country, were mocked by the Dutch, and called fools for their pains. Fuller. DUTCH Dutch, n. 1. pl. Defn: The people of Holland; Dutchmen. 2. The language spoken in Holland. DUTCHMAN Dutch"man, n.; pl. Dutchmen (. Defn: A native, or one of the people, of Holland. Dutchman's breeches (Bot.), a perennial American herb (Dicentra cucullaria), with peculiar double-spurred flowers. See Illust. of Dicentra. -- Dutchman's laudanum (Bot.), a West Indian passion flower (Passiflora Murucuja); also, its fruit. -- Dutchman's pipe (Bot.), an American twining shrub (Aristolochia Sipho). Its flowers have their calyx tubes curved like a tobacco pipe. DUTEOUS Du"te*ous, a. Etym: [From Duty.] 1. Fulfilling duty; dutiful; having the sentiments due to a superior, or to one to whom respect or service is owed; obedient; as, a duteous son or daughter. 2. Subservient; obsequious. Duteous to the vices of thy mistress. Shak. -- Du"te*ous*ly, adv. -- Du"te*ous*ness, n. DUTIABLE Du"ti*a*ble, a. Etym: [From Duty.] Defn: Subject to the payment of a duty; as dutiable goods. [U.S.] All kinds of dutiable merchandise. Hawthorne. DUTIED Du"tied, a. Defn: Subjected to a duty. Ames. DUTIFUL Du"ti*ful, a. 1. Performing, or ready to perform, the duties required by one who has the right to claim submission, obedience, or deference; submissive to natural or legal superiors; obedient, as to parents or superiors; as, a dutiful son or daughter; a dutiful ward or servant; a dutiful subject. 2. Controlled by, proceeding from, a sense of duty; respectful; deferential; as, dutiful affection. Syn. -- Duteous; obedient; reverent; reverential; submissive; docile; respectful; compliant. -- Du"ti*ful*ly, adv. -- Du"ti*ful*ness, n. DUTY Du"ty, n.; pl. Duties. Etym: [From Due.] 1. That which is due; payment. [Obs. as signifying a material thing.] When thou receivest money for thy labor or ware, thou receivest thy duty. Tyndale. 2. That which a person is bound by moral obligation to do, or refrain from doing; that which one ought to do; service morally obligatory. Forgetting his duty toward God, his sovereign lord, and his country. Hallam. 3. Hence, any assigned service or business; as, the duties of a policeman, or a soldier; to be on duty. With records sweet of duties done. Keble. To employ him on the hardest and most imperative duty. Hallam. Duty is a graver term than obligation. A duty hardly exists to do trivial things;