[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

who engage in the game; a game of skill in pocketing the balls on a pool table. Note: This game is played variously, but commonly with fifteen balls, besides one cue ball, the contest being to drive the most balls into the pockets. He plays pool at the billiard houses. Thackeray. 3. In rifle shooting, a contest in which each competitor pays a certain sum for every shot he makes, the net proceeds being divided among the winners. 4. Any gambling or commercial venture in which several persons join. 5. A combination of persons contributing money to be used for the purpose of increasing or depressing the market price of stocks, grain, or other commodities; also, the aggregate of the sums so contributed; as, the pool took all the wheat offered below the limit; he put $10,000 into the pool. 6. (Railroads) Defn: A mutual arrangement between competing lines, by which the receipts of all are aggregated, and then distributed pro rata according to agreement. 7. (Law) Defn: An aggregation of properties or rights, belonging to different people in a community, in a common fund, to be charged with common liabilities. Pin pool, a variety of the game of billiards in which small wooden pins are set up to be knocked down by the balls. -- Pool ball, one of the colored ivory balls used in playing the game at billiards called pool. -- Pool snipe (Zoöl.), the European redshank. [Prov. Eng.] -- Pool table, a billiard table with pockets. POOL Pool, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Pooled; p. pr. & vb. n. Pooling.] Defn: To put together; to contribute to a common fund, on the basis of a mutual division of profits or losses; to make a common interest of; as, the companies pooled their traffic. Finally, it favors the poolingof all issues. U. S. Grant. POOL Pool, v. i. Defn: To combine or contribute with others, as for a commercial, speculative, or gambling transaction. POOLER Pool"er, n. Defn: A stick for stirring a tan vat. POOLING Pool"ing, n. (Law) Defn: The act of uniting, or an agreement to unite, an aggregation of properties belonging to different persons, with a view to common liabilities or profits. POON Poon, n. Etym: [Canarese ponne.] Defn: A name for several East Indian, or their wood, used for the masts and spars of vessels, as Calophyllum angustifolium, C. inophullum, and Sterculia foetida; -- called also peon. POONAC Poo"nac, n. Defn: A kind of oil cake prepared from the cocoanut. See Oil cake, under Cake. POONAH PAINTING Poo"nah paint`ing. [From Poona, in Bombay Province, India.] Defn: A style of painting, popular in England in the 19th century, in which a thick opaque color is applied without background and with scarcely any shading, to thin paper, producing flowers, birds, etc., in imitation of Oriental work. Hence: Poonah brush, paper, painter, etc. POONGA OIL Poon"ga oil`. Defn: A kind of oil used in India for lamps, and for boiling with dammar for pitching vessels. It is pressed from the seeds of a leguminous tree (Pongamia glabra). POOP Poop, n. (Arch.) Defn: See 2d Poppy. POOP Poop, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Pooped; p. pr. & vb. n. Pooping.] Etym: [Cf. D. poepen. See Pop.] Defn: To make a noise; to pop; also, to break wind. POOP Poop, n. Etym: [F. poupe; cf. Sp. & Pg. popa, It. poppa; all fr. L. puppis.] (Naut.) Defn: A deck raised above the after part of a vessel; the hindmost or after part of a vessel's hull; also, a cabin covered by such a deck. See Poop deck, under Deck. See also Roundhouse. With wind in poop, the vessel plows the sea. Dryden. The poop was beaten gold. Shak. POOP Poop, v. t. (Naut.) (a) To break over the poop or stern, as a wave. "A sea which he thought was going to poop her." Lord Dufferin. (b) To strike in the stern, as by collision. POOPED Pooped, p. p. & a. (Naut.) (a) Having a poop; furnished with a poop. (b) Struck on the poop. POOPING Poop"ing, n. (Naut.) Defn: The act or shock of striking a vessel's stern by a following wave or vessel. POOR Poor, a. [Compar. Poorer (; 254); superl. Poorest.] Etym: [OE. poure or povre, OF. povre, F. pauvre, L. pauper; the first syllable of which is probably akin to paucus few (see Paucity, Few), and the second to parare to prepare, procure. See Few, and cf. Parade, Pauper, Poverty.] 1. Destitute of property; wanting in material riches or goods; needy; indigent. Note: It is often synonymous with indigent and with necessitous denoting extreme want. It is also applied to persons who are not entirely destitute of property, but who are not rich; as, a poor man or woman; poor people. 2. (Law) Defn: So completely destitute of property as to be entitled to maintenance from the public. 3. Hence, in very various applications: Defn: Destitute of such qualities as are desirable, or might naturally be expected; as: (a) Wanting in fat, plumpness, or fleshiness; lean; emaciated; meager; as, a poor horse, ox, dog, etc. "Seven other kine came up after them, poor and very ill-favored and lean-fleshed." Gen. xli. 19. (b) Wanting in strength or vigor; feeble; dejected; as, poor health; poor spirits. "His genius . . . poor and cowardly." Bacon. (c) Of little value or worth; not good; inferior; shabby; mean; as, poor clothes; poor lodgings. "A poor vessel." Clarendon. (d) Destitute of fertility; exhausted; barren; sterile; -- said of land; as, poor soil. (e) Destitute of beauty, fitness, or merit; as, a poor discourse; a poor picture. (f) Without prosperous conditions or good results; unfavorable; unfortunate; unconformable; as, a poor business; the sick man had a poor night. (g) Inadequate; insufficient; insignificant; as, a poor excuse. That I have wronged no man will be a poor plea or apology at the last day. Calamy. 4. Worthy of pity or sympathy; -- used also sometimes as a term of endearment, or as an expression of modesty, and sometimes as a word of contempt. And for mine own poor part, Look you, I'll go pray. Shak. Poor, little, pretty, fluttering thing. Prior. 5. Free from self-assertion; not proud or arrogant; meek. "Blessed are the poor in spirit." Matt. v. 3. Poor law, a law providing for, or regulating, the relief or support of the poor. -- Poor man's treacle (Bot.), garlic; -- so called because it was thought to be an antidote to animal poison. [Eng] Dr. Prior. -- Poor man's weatherglass (Bot.), the red-flowered pimpernel (Anagallis arvensis), which opens its blossoms only in fair weather. -- Poor rate, an assessment or tax, as in an English parish, for the relief or support of the poor. -- Poor soldier (Zoöl.), the friar bird. -- The poor, those who are destitute of property; the indigent; the needy. In a legal sense, those who depend on charity or maintenance by the public. "I have observed the more public provisions are made for the poor, the less they provide for themselves." Franklin. POOR Poor, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: A small European codfish (Gadus minutus); -- called also power cod. POORBOX Poor"box`, n. Defn: A receptacle in which money given for the poor is placed. POORHOUSE Poor"house`, n. Defn: A dwelling for a number of paupers maintained at public expense; an almshouse; a workhouse. POOR-JOHN Poor"-john`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: A small European fish, similar to the cod, but of inferior quality. Poor-john and apple pies are all our fare. Sir J. Harrington. POORLINESS Poor"li*ness, n. Defn: The quality or state of being poorly; ill health. POORLY Poor"ly, adv. 1. In a poor manner or condition; without plenty, or sufficiency, or suitable provision for comfort; as, to live poorly. 2. With little or no success; indifferently; with little profit or advantage; as, to do poorly in business. 3. Meanly; without spirit. Nor is their courage or their wealth so low, That from his wars they poorly would retire. Dryden. 4. Without skill or merit; as, he performs poorly. Poorly off, not well off; not rich. POORLY Poor"ly, a. Defn: Somewhat ill; indisposed; not in health. "Having been poorly in health." T. Scott. POORNESS Poor"ness, n. Defn: The quality or state of being poor (in any of the senses of the adjective). Bacon. POOR-SPIRITED Poor"-spir`it*ed, a. Defn: Of a mean spirit; cowardly; base. -- Poor"-spir`it*ed*ness, n. POOR-WILL Poor"-will`, n. Etym: [So called in imitation of its note.] (Zoöl.) Defn: A bird of the Western United States (Phalænoptilus Nutalli) allied to the whip-poor-will. POOR-WILLIE Poor"-wil`lie, n. Etym: [So called in imitation of its note.] (Zoöl.) Defn: The bar-tailed godwit. [Prov. Eng.] POP Pop, n. Etym: [Of imitative origin. Cf. Poop.] 1. A small, sharp, quick explosive sound or report; as, to go off with a pop. Addison. 2. An unintoxicating beverage which expels the cork with a pop from the bottle containing it; as, ginger pop; lemon pop, etc. Hood. 3. (Zoöl.) Defn: The European redwing. [Prov. Eng.] Pop