[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

Gael. fill to fold, plait, Sw. fåll a hem.] Defn: To sew or hem; -- said of seams. FELL Fell, n. 1. (Sewing) Defn: A form of seam joining two pieces of cloth, the edges being folded together and the stitches taken through both thicknesses. 2. (Weaving) Defn: The end of a web, formed by the last thread of the weft. FELLABLE Fell"a*ble, a. Defn: Fit to be felled. FELLAH Fel"lah, n.; pl. Ar. Fellahin, E. Fellahs. Etym: [Ar.] Defn: A peasant or cultivator of the soil among the Egyptians, Syrians, etc. W. M. Thomson. FELLER Fell"er, n. Defn: One who, or that which, fells, knocks or cuts down; a machine for felling trees. FELLER Fell"er, n. Defn: An appliance to a sewing machine for felling a seam. FELLFARE Fell"fare`, n. Etym: [Cf. AS. fealafor, and E. fieldfare.] (Zoöl.) Defn: The fieldfare. FELLIFLUOUS Fellif"lu`ous, a. Etym: [L. fellifluus; fel gall + fluere to flow.] Defn: Flowing with gall. [R.] Johnson. FELLINIC Fel*lin"ic, a. Etym: [L. fel, fellis, gall.] Defn: Of, relating to, or derived from, bile or gall; as, fellinic acid. FELLMONGER Fell"mon`ger, n. Defn: A dealer in fells or sheepskins, who separates the wool from the pelts. FELLNESS Fell"ness, n. Etym: [See Fell cruel.] Defn: The quality or state of being fell or cruel; fierce barbarity. Spenser. FELLOE Fel"loe, n. Defn: See Felly. FELLON Fel"lon, n. Defn: Variant of Felon. [Obs.] Those two were foes the fellonest on ground. Spenser. FELLOW Fel"low, n. Etym: [OE. felawe, felaghe, Icel. felagi, fr. felag companionship, prop., a laying together of property; fe property + lag a laying, pl. lög law, akin to liggja to lie. See Fee, and Law, Lie to be low.] 1. A companion; a comrade; an associate; a partner; a sharer. The fellows of his crime. Milton. We are fellows still, Serving alike in sorrow. Shak. That enormous engine was flanked by two fellows almost of equal magnitude. Gibbon. Note: Commonly used of men, but sometimes of women. Judges xi. 37. 2. A man without good breeding or worth; an ignoble or mean man. Worth makes the man, and want of it, the fellow. Pope. 3. An equal in power, rank, character, etc. It is impossible that ever Rome Should breed thy fellow. Shak. 4. One of a pair, or of two things used together or suited to each other; a mate; the male. When they be but heifers of one year, . . . they are let go to the fellow and breed. Holland. This was my glove; here is the fellow of it. Shak. 5. A person; an individual. She seemed to be a good sort of fellow. Dickens. 6. In the English universities, a scholar who is appointed to a foundation called a fellowship, which gives a title to certain perquisites and privileges. 7. In an American college or university, a member of the corporation which manages its business interests; also, a graduate appointed to a fellowship, who receives the income of the foundation. 8. A member of a literary or scientific society; as, a Fellow of the Royal Society. Note: Fellow is often used in compound words, or adjectively, signifying associate, companion, or sometimes equal. Usually, such compounds or phrases are self-explanatory; as, fellow-citizen, or fellow citizen; fellow-student, or fellow student; fellow-workman, or fellow workman; fellow-mortal, or fellow mortal; fellow-sufferer; bedfellow; playfellow; workfellow. Were the great duke himself here, and would lift up My head to fellow pomp amongst his nobles. Ford. FELLOW Fel"low, v. t. Defn: To suit with; to pair with; to match. [Obs.] Shak. FELLOW-COMMONER Fel"low-com"mon*er, n. Defn: A student at Cambridge University, England, who commons, or dines, at the Fellow's table. FELLOW-CREATURE Fel"low-crea"ture, n. Defn: One of the same race or kind; one made by the same Creator. Reason, by which we are raised above our fellow-creatures, the brutes. I. Watts. FELLOWFEEL Fel"low*feel", v. t. Defn: To share through sympathy; to participate in. [R.] D. Rodgers. FELLOW-FEELING Fel"low-feel"ing, n. 1. Sympathy; a like feeling. 2. Joint interest. [Obs.] Arbuthnot. FELLOWLESS Fel"low*less, a. Defn: Without fellow or equal; peerless. Whose well-built walls are rare and fellowless. Chapman. FELLOWLIKE Fel"low*like`, a. Defn: Like a companion; companionable; on equal terms; sympathetic. [Obs.] Udall. FELLOWLY Fel"low*ly, a. Defn: Fellowlike. [Obs.] Shak. FELLOWSHIP Fel"low*ship, n. Etym: [Fellow + -ship.] 1. The state or relation of being or associate. 2. Companionship of persons on equal and friendly terms; frequent and familiar intercourse. In a great town, friends are scattered, so that there is not that fellowship which is in less neighborhods. Bacon. Men are made for society and mutual fellowship. Calamy. 3. A state of being together; companionship; partnership; association; hence, confederation; joint interest. The great contention of the sea and skies Parted our fellowship. Shak. Fellowship in pain divides not smart. Milton. Fellowship in woe doth woe assuage. Shak. The goodliest fellowship of famous knights, Whereof this world holds record. Tennyson. 4. Those associated with one, as in a family, or a society; a company. The sorrow of Noah with his fellowship. Chaucer. With that a joyous fellowship issued Of minstrels. Spenser. 5. (Eng. & Amer. Universities) A foundation for the maintenance, on certain conditions, of a scholar called a fellow, who usually resides at the university. 6. (Arith.) The rule for dividing profit and loss among partners; -- called also partnership, company, and distributive proportion. FELLOWSHIP Fel"low*ship, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Fellowshiped (; p. pr. & vb. n.. Fellowshiping.] Defn: (Eccl.) To acknowledge as of good standing, or in communion according to standards of faith and practice; to admit to Christian fellowship. FELLOWSHIP; GOOD FELLOWSHIP Good fel"low*ship Defn: companionableness; the spirit and disposition befitting comrades. There's neither honesty, manhood, nor good fellowship in thee. Shak. FELLY Fel"ly Defn: , adv. In a fell or cruel manner; fiercely; barbarously; savagely. Spenser. FELLY Fel"ly, n.; pl. Fellies (. Etym: [OE. feli, felwe, felow, AS. felg, felge; akin to D. velg, G. felge, OHG. felga felly (also, a harrow, but prob. a different word), Dan. felge.] Defn: The exterior wooden rim, or a segment of the rim, of a wheel, supported by the spokes. [Written also felloe.] Break all the spokes and fellies from her wheel. Shak. FELO-DE-SE Fe"lo-de-se`, n.; pl. Felos-de-se. Etym: [LL. felo, E. felon + de of, concerning + se self.] (Law) Defn: One who deliberately puts an end to his own existence, or loses his life while engaged in the commission of an unlawful or malicious act; a suicide. Burrill. FELON Fel"on, n. Etym: [OE., adj., cruel, n., villain, ruffian, traitor, whitlow, F. félon traitor, in OF. also, villain, fr. LL. felo. See Fell, a.] 1. (Law) Defn: A person who has committed a felony. 2. A person guilty or capable of heinous crime. 3. (Med.) Defn: A kind of whitlow; a painful imflammation of the periosteum of a finger, usually of the last joint. Syn. -- Criminal; convict; malefactor; culprit. FELON Fel"on, a. Defn: Characteristic of a felon; malignant; fierce; malicious; cruel; traitorous; disloyal. Vain shows of love to vail his felon hate. Pope. FELONIOUS Fe*lo"nious, a. Defn: Having the quality of felony; malignant; malicious; villainous; traitorous; perfidious; in a legal sense, done with intent to commit a crime; as, felonious homicide. O thievish Night, Why should'st thou, but for some felonious end, In thy dark lantern thus close up the stars Milton. -- Fe*lo"ni`ous*ly, adv. -- Fe*lo"ni`ous*ness, n. FELONOUS Fel"o*nous, a. Etym: [Cf. OF. feloneus. Cf. Felonious.] Defn: Wicked; felonious. [Obs.] Spenser. FELONRY Fel"on*ry, n. Defn: A body of felons; specifically, the convict population of a penal colony. Howitt. FELONWORT Fel"on*wort`, n. (Bot.) Defn: The bittersweet nightshade (Solanum Dulcamara). See Bittersweet. FELONY Fel"o*ny, n.; pl. Felonies. Etym: [OE. felonie cruelty, OF. felonie, F. félonie treachery, malice. See Felon, n.] 1. (Feudal Law) Defn: An act on the part of the vassal which cost him his fee by forfeiture. Burrill. 2. (O.Eng.Law) Defn: An offense which occasions a total forfeiture either lands or goods, or both, at the common law, and to which capital or other punishment may be added, according to the degree of guilt. 3. A heinous crime; especially, a crime punishable by death or imprisonment. Note: Forfeiture for crime having been generally abolished in the United States, the term felony, in American law, has lost this point of distinction; and its meaning, where not fixed by statute, is somewhat vague and undefined; generally, however, it is used to denote an offense of a high grade, punishable either capitally or by a term of imprisonment. In Massachusetts, by statute, any crime punishable by death or imprisonment in the state prison, and no other, is a felony; so in New York. the tendency now is to obliterate the distinction between felonies and misdemeanors; and this has been done partially in England, and completely in some of the States of the Union. The distinction is purely arbitrary, and its entire abolition is only a question of time. Note: There is no lawyer who would undertake to tell what a felony is,