[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

facile consort Eve, Lost Paradise, deceived by me. Milton. This is treating Burns like a child, a person of so facile a disposition as not to be trusted without a keeper on the king's highway. Prof. Wilson. 5. Ready; quick; expert; as, he is facile in expedients; he wields a facile pen. -- Fac"ile-ly, adv. -- Fac"ile*ness, n. FACILITATE Fa*cil"i*tate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Facilitated; p. pr. & vb. n. Facilitating.] Etym: [Cf. F. faciliter. See Facility.] Defn: To make easy or less difficult; to free from difficulty or impediment; to lessen the labor of; as, to facilitate the execution of a task. To invite and facilitate that line of proceeding which the times call for. I. Taylor. FACILITATION Fa*cil`i*ta"tion, n. Defn: The act of facilitating or making easy. FACILITY Fa*cil"i*ty, n.; pl. Facilities. Etym: [L. facilitas, fr. facilis easy: cf. F. facilitFacile.] 1. The quality of being easily performed; freedom from difficulty; ease; as, the facility of an operation. The facility with which government has been overturned in France. Burke . 2. Ease in performance; readiness proceeding from skill or use; dexterity; as, practice gives a wonderful facility in executing works of art. 3. Easiness to be persuaded; readiness or compliance; -- usually in a bad sense; pliancy. It is a great error to take facility for good nature. L'Estrange. 4. Easiness of access; complaisance; affability. Offers himself to the visits of a friend with facility. South. 5. That which promotes the ease of any action or course of conduct; advantage; aid; assistance; -- usually in the plural; as, special facilities for study. Syn. -- Ease; expertness; readiness; dexterity; complaisance; condescension; affability. -- Facility, Expertness, Readiness. These words have in common the idea of performing any act with ease and promptitude. Facility supposes a natural or acquired power of dispatching a task with lightness and ease. Expertness is the kind of facility acquired by long practice. Readiness marks the promptitude with which anything is done. A merchant needs great facility in dispatching business; a bunker, great expertness in casting accounts; both need great readiness in passing from one employment to another. "The facility which we get of doing things by a custom of doing, makes them often pass in us without our notice." Locke. "The army was celebrated for the expertness and valor of the soldiers." "A readiness obey the known will of God is the surest means to enlighten the mind in respect to duty." FACING Fa"cing, n. 1. A covering in front, for ornament or other purpose; an exterior covering or sheathing; as, the facing of an earthen slope, sea wall, etc. , to strengthen it or to protect or adorn the exposed surface. 2. A lining placed near the edge of a garment for ornament or protection. 3. (Arch.) Defn: The finishing of any face of a wall with material different from that of which it is chiefly composed, or the coating or material so used. 4. (Founding) Defn: A powdered substance, as charcoal, bituminous coal, ect., applied to the face of a mold, or mixed with the sand that forms it, to give a fine smooth surface to the casting. 5. (Mil.) (a) pl. Defn: The collar and cuffs of a military coat; -- commonly of a color different from that of the coat. (b) The movement of soldiers by turning on their heels to the right, left, or about; -- chiefly in the pl. Facing brick, front or pressed brick. FACINGLY Fa"cing*ly, adv. Defn: In a facing manner or position. FACINOROUS Fa*cin"o*rous, a. Etym: [L. facinorous, from facinus deed, bad deed, from facere to make, do.] Defn: Atrociously wicked. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor. -- Fa*cin"o*rous*ness, n. [Obs.] FACOUND Fac"ound, n. Etym: [F. faconde, L. facundia. See Facund.] Defn: Speech; eloquence. [Obs.] Her facound eke full womanly and plain. Chaucer. FACSIMILE Fac*sim"i*le, n.; pl. Facsimiles (-l. Etym: [L. fac simile make like; or an abbreviation of factum simile made like; facere to make + similes like. See Fact, and Simile.] Defn: A copy of anything made, either so as to be deceptive or so as to give every part and detail of the original; an exact copy or likeness. Facsimile telegraph, a telegraphic apparatus reproducing messages in autograph. FACSIMILE Fac*sim"i*le Defn: , ( FACT Fact, n. Etym: [L. factum, fr. facere to make or do. Cf. Feat, Affair, Benefit, Defect, Fashion, and -fy.] 1. A doing, making, or preparing. [Obs.] A project for the fact and vending Of a new kind of fucus, paint for ladies. B. Jonson. 2. An effect produced or achieved; anything done or that comes to pass; an act; an event; a circumstance. What might instigate him to this devilish fact, I am not able to conjecture. Evelyn. He who most excels in fact of arms. Milton. 3. Reality; actuality; truth; as, he, in fact, excelled all the rest; the fact is, he was beaten. 4. The assertion or statement of a thing done or existing; sometimes, even when false, improperly put, by a transfer of meaning, for the thing done, or supposed to be done; a thing supposed or asserted to be done; as, history abounds with false facts. I do not grant the fact. De Foe. This reasoning is founded upon a fact which is not true. Roger Long. Note: TheTerm fact has in jurisprudence peculiar uses in contrast with low; as, attorney at low, and attorney in fact; issue in low, and issue in fact. There is also a grand distinction between low and fact with reference to the province of the judge and that of the jury, the latter generally determining the fact, the former the low. Burrill Bouvier. Accessary before, or after, the fact. See under Accessary. -- Matter of fact, an actual occurrence; a verity; used adjectively: of or pertaining to facts; prosaic; unimaginative; as, a matter-of- fact narration. Syn. -- Act; deed; performance; event; incident; occurrence; circumstance. FACTION Fac"tion, n. Etym: [L. factio a doing, a company of persons acting together, a faction: cf. F. faction See Fashion.] 1. (Anc. Hist.) Defn: One of the divisions or parties of charioteers (distinguished by their colors) in the games of the circus. 2. A party, in political society, combined or acting in union, in opposition to the government, or state; -- usually applied to a minority, but it may be applied to a majority; a combination or clique of partisans of any kind, acting for their own interests, especially if greedy, clamorous, and reckless of the common good. 3. Tumult; discord; dissension. They remained at Newbury in great faction among themselves. Clarendon. Syn. -- Combination; clique; junto. See Cabal. FACTIONARY Fac"tion*a*ry, a. Etym: [Cf. F. factionnaire, L. factionarius the head of a company of charioteers.] Defn: Belonging to a faction; being a partisan; taking sides. [Obs.] Always factionary on the party of your general. Shak. FACTIONER Fac"tion*er (-r), n. Defn: One of a faction. Abp. Bancroft. FACTIONIST Fac"tion*ist, n. Defn: One who promotes faction. FACTIOUS Fac"tious. a. Etym: [L. factiosus: cf. F. factieux.] 1. Given to faction; addicted to form parties and raise dissensions, in opposition to government or the common good; turbulent; seditious; prone to clamor against public measures or men; -- said of persons. Factious for the house of Lancaster. Shak. 2. Pertaining to faction; proceeding from faction; indicating, or characterized by, faction; -- said of acts or expressions; as, factious quarrels. Headlong zeal or factious fury. Burke. -- Fac"tious*ly, adv. -- Fac"tious-ness, n. FACTITIOUS Fac*ti"tious, a. Etym: [L. factitius, fr. facere to make. See Fact, and cf. Fetich.] Defn: Made by art, in distinction from what is produced by nature; artificial; sham; formed by, or adapted to, an artificial or conventional, in distinction from a natural, standard or rule; not natural; as, factitious cinnabar or jewels; a factitious taste. -- Fac-ti"tious*ly, adv. -- Fac*ti"tious-ness, n. He acquires a factitious propensity, he forms an incorrigible habit, of desultory reading. De Quincey. Syn. -- Unnatural. -- Factitious, Unnatural. Anything is unnatural when it departs in any way from its simple or normal state; it is factitious when it is wrought out or wrought up by labor and effort, as, a factitious excitement. An unnatural demand for any article of merchandise is one which exceeds the ordinary rate of consumption; a factitious demand is one created by active exertions for the purpose. An unnatural alarm is one greater than the occasion requires; a factitious alarm is one wrought up with care and effort. FACTITIVE Fac"ti*tive. a. Etym: [See Fact.] 1. Causing; causative. 2. (Gram.) Defn: Pertaining to that relation which is proper when the act, as of a transitive verb, is not merely received by an object, but produces some change in the object, as when we say, He made the water wine. Sometimes the idea of activity in a verb or adjective involves in it a reference to an effect, in the way of causality, in the active voice on the immediate objects, and in the passive voice on the subject of such activity.