[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #55148]

six o'clock I was in the library; a box of tin soldiers, which my father had bought for me at Carlsruhe, stood open on the table, and the armies were opposed. I was not too old to play with soldiers like these, for there were shoals of them: officers, and drummers, and gunners, cannon, flags--everything. As a matter of fact, Major von der Goltz had been playing with me, too, and I'll swear he took just as much interest in them as I. He had gone now, and I was tired of the soldiers. I turned my attention to the books. I was walking along by the shelves, examining the backs of the volumes and trying to imagine what the German titles could mean, when suddenly, from amidst the books, I heard a child's voice. The child seemed singing and talking to itself, and the sound seemed to come from the volumes on the shelves. It was strange to hear it coming from amidst the books like that, as though some volume of fairy tales had suddenly become vocal, and Hänsel, playing by the witch-woman's door, had found a voice. Then I noticed that the books before me were not real books, but imitation. In the centre of one of these imitation book-racks there was a little brass knob. I pressed it, and the wall gave, disclosing a passage. The book-backs were but the covering of a narrow door. This passage, suddenly disclosed, fascinated me. It was dimly lit from above, and ended in a door of muffed glass. About half way down on the floor stood a toy horse--a dappled-grey horse with a broom-like tail and a well-worn saddle--evidently left there by some child, and forgotten. I could hear the child's voice now distinctly. He or she was singing, singing in a monotonous fashion, just as a child sings when quite alone. I came down the passage to the door. The muffing of the door had been scratched. There was a spyhole, evidently made by a child, for it was just on a level with my own eye, and there was a word scratched on the paint of the muffing which, though I had to read it backwards, I made out to be-- CARL. I peeped through the hole. It disclosed a room, evidently a nursery, plainly but pleasantly furnished. On the window-seat, looking out and drumming an accompaniment on the glass to the tune he was singing, knelt Carl. I looked for the handle of the door, found it, turned it, opened the door, without knocking, and entered the room. The child at the window turned, and, when he saw me, flung up his arms with a gesture of terror and glanced round wildly, as if for somewhere to hide. It cut me to the heart; it frightened me, too--this terror of the child for me. I remembered Eloise's words: "Little Carl is a girl." "Gretel! Gretel! Gretel!" cried the child as I ran forward, took him in my arms, and kissed him on the forehead. Whether he had expected me to hit him or not I don't know; but at this treatment he ceased his cries, and, pushing me away from him, looked at me dubiously. "I won't hurt you, little Carl!" And at the words a whole ocean of tenderness welled up in my heart for the trembling and lonely little figure in the soldier's dress, this Pomeranian grenadier, timorous as a rabbit. I must, in this heart of mine, have some good; for, boy as I was, with all the fighting instincts of the Mahons in my blood, I felt no boyish ridicule for this creature that a blow would make cry, but all the tenderness of a nurse, or a person who holds a live and trembling bird in his hand. "I won't hurt you. I didn't _mean_ to knock you in the pond." "But you did," said Carl, still dubious. "I know, and I'm sorry. See here, Carl, I'll give you my dog." "Your big dog?" asked Carl, for he had seen Marengo bounding about the lawn. "Yes," said I, knowing full well that the promise was about equivalent to the promise of the moon. The little hand fell into mine. "Gretel," said Carl, now in a confidential tone, "told me you would kill me if I played with you, or went near you, or if I looked at you." "Oh, how wicked!" I cried. "_I_ kill you!" And I clasped the little form more tightly. "I know," said Carl. He was a personage of few words, and those two words told me quite plainly that he believed me and had confidence in me. "It's not you," he said, after a pause. "She said you didn't want to do it, but you'd have to do it; for you were a bad man once, and you'd have to do it over again," said Carl. "What you'd done before, for someone had said so. I don't know who they were." He had got the tale so mixed up that I could scarcely follow his meaning. "When will you give me the dog?" he finished, irrelevantly enough. "I'll give you him--I'll give you him to-morrow," I said, "if father will let me. But he's sure to, if I ask him." Scarcely had I finished speaking than the door opened and Gretel appeared. She stood for a moment when she saw us together, as though the sight had turned her into stone. Then she came towards us. "How did you get here?" said she to me. "Through that door," I answered her. She took me by the hand and led me away. As she did so, something closed round my neck, and something touched me on the cheek. It was Carl, who had put his arms round my neck and kissed me. Ah, little Carl, little Carl! Little we knew how next we should meet, or the manner of that meeting! CHAPTER X THE DEATH OF VOGEL "Joubert, what is father doing?" "He is playing cards down below with the gentlemen." I was undressing to go to bed that same night, and Joubert was expediting my movements, anxious, most likely, to go downstairs and drink with the house-steward. "Joubert, I wish he were here." "Why?" "I don't know; but I am frightened." "Of what?" "I don't know." Joubert blew out the light and left the room, and I lay looking at the shadows the furniture made on the wall by the dim glimmer of the nightlight. The door leading to my father's room was open. This did not give me any comfort--rather the reverse; for the next room was in darkness, and I could not help imagining faces peeping at me from the darkness. When frightened at night like this, I generally told myself fairy tales to keep away the terrors. I tried this to-night with a bad result, for the attempt instantly brought up Vogel and the old woman who lived in the wood. Now, there was something in this fairy tale that my heart knew to be evil and malign. What this something was I could not tell, but it was there, and the story did not bring me any peace. The clock in the turret struck ten, and I saw vividly the Man in Armour up there alone in the dark, wheeling to his work. There was something terrific in this iron man. A live tiger was a thing to me less fearful. Not for worlds would I have gone up alone to watch him at his work, even at a safe distance. The fact that the hammer had nearly killed me did not contribute much to this fear. I knew that was not his fault. I was terrified by Him. Then I fell thinking of my promise to little Carl to give him Marengo, and, thinking of this, I fell asleep. At least, I closed my eyes and entered a world of vague shapes. And then I entered a wood. The cottage of the old woman who made the whistles was before me. It had a window on either side of the door, and in one window there were jars of sugar-sticks. I knocked at the door. It flew open, and there stood Vogel, the jäger with the hooked nose. He smilingly beckoned me in. I entered, and, hey presto! his smile vanished with the closing of the door, and I was on a bed, and he was smothering me with a pillow. And then I awoke, and I was in bed and I was being smothered by a pillow. Oh, horror! Oh, the horror of that waking! Someone was lying upon me; a pillow was over my face, crushing it! I shrieked, and my shriek did not go an inch beyond my mouth. My nose was crushed flat; my mouth, opening to scream, could not close again. The pillow bulged in, and then, flung away like a feather by the wind, went