[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

other animals, attended by reeling, unsteady gait or sudden falling; as, parasitic staggers; appopletic or sleepy staggers. 3. pl. Defn: Bewilderment; perplexity. [R.] Shak. Stomach staggers (Far.), distention of the stomach with food or gas, resulting in indigestion, frequently in death. STAGGERBUSH Stag"ger*bush`, n. (Bot.) Defn: An American shrub (Andromeda Mariana) having clusters of nodding white flowers. It grows in low, sandy places, and is said to poison lambs and calves. Gray. STAGGERINGLY Stag"ger*ing*ly, adv. Defn: In a staggering manner. STAGGERWORT Stag"ger*wort`, n. (Bot.) Defn: A kind of ragwort (Senecio Jacobæa). STAG-HORN CORAL; STAG-HORN FERN Stag"-horn` co"ral, Stag"-horn` fern`, etc. Defn: See under Stag. STAG-HORNED Stag"-horned`, a. (Zoöl.) Defn: Having the mandibles large and palmate, or branched somewhat like the antlers of a stag; -- said of certain beetles. STAGHOUND Stag"hound`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: A large and powerful hound formerly used in hunting the stag, the wolf, and other large animals. The breed is nearly extinct. STAGING Sta"ging, n. Defn: A structure of posts and boards for supporting workmen, etc., as in building. 2. The business of running stagecoaches; also, the act of journeying in stagecoaches. STAGIRITE Stag"i*rite, n. Defn: A native of, or resident in, Stagira, in ancient Macedonia; especially, Aristotle. [Written also Stagyrite.] STAGNANCY Stag"nan*cy, n. Defn: State of being stagnant. STAGNANT Stag"nant, a. Etym: [L. stagnans, -antis, p.pr. of stagnare. See Stagnate.] 1. That stagnates; not flowing; not running in a current or steam; motionless; hence, impure or foul from want of motion; as, a stagnant lake or pond; stagnant blood in the veins. 2. Not active or brisk; dull; as, business in stagnant. That gloomy slumber of the stagnant soul. Johnson. For him a stagnant life was not worth living. Palfrey. STAGNANTLY Stag"nant*ly, adv. Defn: In a stagnant manner. STAGNATE Stag"nate, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Stagnated; p. pr. & vb. n. Stagnating.] Etym: [L. stagnatus, p.p. of stagnare to stagnate, make stagnant, from stagnum a piece of standing water. See Stank a pool, and cf. Stanch, v. t.] 1. To cease to flow; to be motionless; as, blood stagnates in the veins of an animal; hence, to become impure or foul by want of motion; as, air stagnates in a close room. 2. To cease to be brisk or active; to become dull or inactive; as, commerce stagnates; business stagnates. Ready-witted tenderness . . . never stagnates in vain lamentations while there is any room for hope. Sir W. Scott. STAGNATE Stag"nate, a. Defn: Stagnant. [Obs.] "A stagnate mass of vapors." Young. STAGNATION Stag*na"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. stagnation.] 1. The condition of being stagnant; cessation of flowing or circulation, as of a fluid; the state of being motionless; as, the stagnation of the blood; the stagnation of water or air; the stagnation of vapors. 2. The cessation of action, or of brisk action; the state of being dull; as, the stagnation of business. STAGWORM Stag"worm, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: The larve of any species of botfly which is parasitic upon the stag, as , which burrows beneath the skin, and Cephalomyia auribarbis, which lives in the nostrils. STAGY Sta"gy, a. [Written also stagey.] Defn: Having an air or manner characteristic of the stage; theatrical; artificial; as, a stagy tone or bearing; --chiefly used depreciatively. STAHLIAN Stahl"ian, a. Defn: Pertaining to, or taught by, Stahl, a German physician and chemist of the 17th century; as, the Stahlian theory of phlogiston. STAHLIAN Stahl"ian, n. Defn: A believer in, or advocate of, Stahlism. STAHLISM; STAHLIANISM Stahl"ism, Stahl"ian*ism, n. Defn: The Stahlian theoru, that every vital action is function or operation of the soul. STAID Staid, Defn: imp. & p. p. of Stay. STAID Staid, a. Etym: [From Stay to stop.] Defn: Sober; grave; steady; sedate; composed; regular; not wild, volatile, or fanciful. "Sober and staid persons." Addison. O'erlaid with black, staid Wisdom's hue. Milton. Syn. -- Sober; grave; steady; steadfast; composed; regular; sedate. STAIDLY Staid"ly, adv. Defn: In a staid manner, sedately. STAIDNESS Staid"ness, n. Defn: The quality or state of being staid; seriousness; steadiness; sedateness; regularity; -- the opposite of wildness, or Ant: levity. If sometimes he appears too gray, yet a secret gracefulness of youth accompanies his writings, though the staidness and sobriety of age wanting. Dryden. Syn. -- Sobriety; gravity; steadiness; regularity; constancy; firmness; stability; sedateness. STAIL Stail, n. Defn: A handle, as of a mop; a stale. [Eng.] STAIN Stain, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Stained; p. pr. & vb. n. Staining.] Etym: [Abbrev. fr. distain.] 1. To discolor by the application of foreign matter; to make foul; to spot; as, to stain the hand with dye; armor stained with blood. 2. To color, as wood, glass, paper, cloth, or the like, by processess affecting, chemically or otherwise, the material itself; to tinge with a color or colors combining with, or penetrating, the substance; to dye; as, to stain wood with acids, colored washes, paint rubbed in, etc.; to stain glass. 3. To spot with guilt or infamy; to bring reproach on; to blot; to soil; to tarnish. Of honor void, Of innocence, of faith, of purity, Our wonted ornaments now soiled and stained. Milton. 4. To cause to seem inferior or soiled by comparison. She stains the ripest virgins of her age. Beau. & Fl. That did all other beasts in beauty stain. Spenser. Stained glass, glass colored or stained by certain metallic pigments fused into its substance, -- often used for making ornament windows. Syn. -- To paint; dye; blot; soil; sully; discolor; disgrace; taint. -- Paint, Stain, Dye. These denote three different processes; the first mechanical, the other two, chiefly chemical. To paint a thing is so spread a coat of coloring matter over it; to stain or dye a thing is to impart color to its substance. To stain is said chiefly of solids, as wood, glass, paper; to dye, of fibrous substances, textile fabrics, etc.; the one, commonly, a simple process, as applying a wash; the other more complex, as fixing colors by mordants. STAIN Stain, v. i. Defn: To give or receive a stain; to grow dim. STAIN Stain, n. 1. A discoloration by foreign matter; a spot; as, a stain on a garment or cloth. Shak. 2. A natural spot of a color different from the gound. Swift trouts, diversified with crimson stains. Pope. 3. Taint of guilt; tarnish; disgrace; reproach. Nor death itself can wholly wash their stains. Dryden. Our opinion . . . is, I trust, without any blemish or stain of heresy. Hooker. 4. Cause of reproach; shame. Sir P. Sidney. 5. A tincture; a tinge. [R.] You have some stain of soldier in you. Shak. Syn. -- Blot; spot; taint; pollution; blemish; tarnish; color; disgrace; infamy; shame. STAINER Stain"er, n. 1. One who stains or tarnishes. 2. A workman who stains; as, a stainer of wood. STAINLESS Stain"less, a. Defn: Free from stain; immaculate. Shak. The veery care he took to keep his name Stainless, with some was evidence of shame. Crabbe. Syn. -- Blameless; spotless; faultless. See Blameless. STAINLESSLY Stain"less*ly, adv. Defn: In a stainless manner. STAIR Stair, n. Etym: [OE. steir, steyer, AS. st, from to ascend, rise. sq. root164. See Sty to ascend.] 1. One step of a series for ascending or descending to a different level; -- commonly applied to those within a building. 2. A series of steps, as for passing from one story of a house to another; -- commonly used in the plural; but originally used in the singular only. "I a winding stair found." Chaucer's Dream. Below stairs, in the basement or lower part of a house, where the servants are. -- Flight of stairs, the stairs which make the whole ascent of a story. -- Pair of stairs, a set or flight of stairs. -- pair, in this phrase, having its old meaning of a set. See Pair, n., 1. -- Run of stars (Arch.), a single set of stairs, or section of a stairway, from one platform to the next. -- Stair rod, a rod, usually of metal, for holding a stair carpet to its place. -- Up stairs. See Upstairs in the Vocabulary. STAIRCASE Stair"case`, n. Defn: A flight of stairs with their supporting framework, casing, balusters, etc. To make a complete staircase is a curious piece of architecture. Sir H. Wotton. Staircase shell. (Zoöl.) (a) Any scalaria, or wentletrap. (b) Any species of Solarium, or perspective shell. STAIRHEAD Stair"head`, n. Defn: The head or top of a staircase. STAIRWAY Stair"way`, n. Defn: A flight of stairs or steps; a staircase. "A rude and narrow stairway." Moore. STAITH Staith, n. Etym: [AS. stæ a bank, shore, from the root of E. stead.] Defn: A landing place; an elevated staging upon a wharf for discharging coal, etc., as from railway cars, into vessels. STAITHMAN Staith"man, n. Defn: A man employed in weighing and shipping at a staith. [Eng.] STAKE Stake, n. Etym: [AS. staca, from the root of E. stick; akin to OFries. & LG. stake, D. staak, Sw. stake, Dan.