[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

port, for the same purpose; -- called also wasteboard. Mar. Di WASHBOWL Wash"bowl`, n. Defn: A basin, or bowl, to hold water for washing one's hands, face, etc. WASHDISH Wash"dish`, n. 1. A washbowl. 2. (Zoöl.) Defn: Same as Washerwoman, 2. [Prov. Eng.] WASH DRAWING Wash drawing. (Art) Defn: In water-color painting, work in, or a work done chiefly in, washes, as distinguished from that done in stipple, in body color, etc. WASHED Washed, a. (Zoöl.) Defn: Appearing as if overlaid with a thin layer of different color; -- said of the colors of certain birds and insects. WASHED SALE Washed sale. Defn: Same as Wash sale. WASHEN Wash"en, obs. Defn: p. p. of Wash. Chaucer. WASHER Wash"er, n. Etym: [AS. wæscere.] 1. One who, or that which, washes. 2. A ring of metal, leather, or other material, or a perforated plate, used for various purposes, as around a bolt or screw to form a seat for the head or nut, or around a wagon axle to prevent endwise motion of the hub of the wheel and relieve friction, or in a joint to form a packing, etc. 3. (Plumbing) Defn: A fitting, usually having a plug, applied to a cistern, tub, sink, or the like, and forming the outlet opening. 4. (Zoöl.) Defn: The common raccoon. 5. (Zoöl.) Defn: Same as Washerwoman, 2. [Prov. Eng.] WASHERMAN Wash"er*man, n.; pl. Washermen (. Defn: A man who washes clothes, esp. for hire, or for others. WASHERWOMAN Wash"er*wom`an, n.; pl. Washerwomen (. 1. A woman who washes clothes, especially for hire, or for others. 2. (Zoöl.) Defn: The pied wagtail; -- so called in allusion to its beating the water with its tail while tripping along the leaves of water plants. [Prov. Eng.] WASHHOUSE Wash"house`, n. Defn: An outbuilding for washing, esp. one for washing clothes; a laundry. WASHINESS Wash"i*ness, n. Defn: The quality or state of being washy, watery, or weak. WASHING Wash"ing, n. 1. The act of one who washes; the act of cleansing with water; ablution. 2. The clothes washed, esp. at one time; a wash. Washing bear (Zoöl.), the raccoon. -- Washing bottle (Chem.), a bottle fitted with glass tubes passing through the cork, so that on blowing into one of the tubes a stream of water issuing from the other may be directed upon anything to be washed or rinsed, as a precipitate upon a filter, etc. -- Washing fluid, a liquid used as a cleanser, and consisting usually of alkaline salts resembling soaps in their action. -- Washing machine, a machine for washing; specifically, a machine for washing clothes. -- Washing soda. (Chem.) See Sodium carbonate, under Sodium. -- Washing stuff, any earthy deposit containing gold enough to pay for washing it; -- so called among gold miners. WASHINGTONIAN Wash`ing*to"ni*an, a. 1. Pertaining to, or characteristic of, George Washington; as, a Washingtonian policy. Lowell. 2. Designating, or pertaining to, a temperance society and movement started in Baltimore in 1840 on the principle of total abstinence. -- n. Defn: A member of the Washingtonian Society. WASHOE PROCESS Wash"oe proc`ess. [From the Washoe district, Nevada.] Defn: The process of treating silver ores by grinding in pans or tubs with the addition of mercury, and sometimes of chemicals such as blue vitriol and salt. WASH-OFF Wash"-off`, a. (Calico Printing) Defn: Capable of being washed off; not permanent or durable; -- said of colors not fixed by steaming or otherwise. WASHOUT Wash"out`, n. Defn: The washing out or away of earth, etc., especially of a portion of the bed of a road or railroad by a fall of rain or a freshet; also, a place, especially in the bed of a road or railroad, where the earth has been washed away. WASHPOT Wash"pot`, n. 1. A pot or vessel in which anything is washed. 2. (Tin-Plate Manuf.) Defn: A pot containing melted tin into which the plates are dipped to be coated. WASH SALE Wash sale. (Stock Exchange) Defn: A sale made in washing. See Washing, n., 3, above. WASHSTAND Wash"stand`, n. Defn: A piece of furniture holding the ewer or pitcher, basin, and other requisites for washing the person. WASH STAND Wash stand. Defn: In a stable or garage, a place in the floor prepared so that carriages or automobiles may be washed there and the water run off. [Cant] WASHTUB Wash"tub`, n. Defn: A tub in which clothes are washed. WASHY Wash"y, a. Etym: [From Wash.] 1. Watery; damp; soft. "Washy ooze." Milton. 2. Lacking substance or strength; weak; thin; dilute; feeble; as, washy tea; washy resolutions. A polish . . . not over thin and washy. Sir H. Wotton. 3. Not firm or hardy; liable to sweat profusely with labor; as, a washy horse. [Local, U. S.] WASITE Wa"site, n. Etym: [See Wasium.] (Min.) Defn: A variety of allanite from Sweden supposed to contain wasium. WASIUM Wa"si*um, n. Etym: [NL. So called from Wasa, or Vasa, the name of a former royal family of Sweden.] (Chem.) Defn: A rare element supposed by Bahr to have been extracted from wasite, but now identified with thorium. WASP Wasp, n. Etym: [OE. waspe, AS. wæps, wæfs; akin to D. wesp, G. wespe, OHG. wafsa, wefsa, Lith. vapsa gadfly, Russ. osa wasp, L. vespa, and perhaps to E. weave.] (Zoöl.) Defn: Any one of numerous species of stinging hymenopterous insects, esp. any of the numerous species of the genus Vespa, which includes the true, or social, wasps, some of which are called yellow jackets. Note: The social wasps make a complex series of combs, of a substance like stiff paper, often of large size, and protect them by a paperlike covering. The larvæ are reared in the cells of the combs, and eat insects and insect larvæ brought to them by the adults, but the latter feed mainly on the honey and pollen of flowers, and on the sweet juices of fruit. See Illust. in Appendix. Digger wasp, any one of numerous species of solitary wasps that make their nests in burrows which they dig in the ground, as the sand wasps. See Sand wasp, under Sand. -- Mud wasp. See under Mud. -- Potter wasp. See under Potter. -- Wasp fly, a species of fly resembling a wasp, but without a sting. WASPISH Wasp"ish, a. 1. Resembling a wasp in form; having a slender waist, like a wasp. 2. Quick to resent a trifling affront; characterized by snappishness; irritable; irascible; petulant; snappish. He was naturally a waspish and hot man. Bp. Hall. Much do I suffer, much, to keep in peace This jealous, waspish, wrong-head, rhyming race. Pope. Syn. -- Snappish; petulant; irritable; irascible; testy; peevish; captious. -- Wasp"ish*ly, adv. -- Wasp"ish*ness, n. WASSAIL Was"sail, n. Etym: [AS. wes hal (or an equivalent form in another dialect) be in health, which was the form of drinking a health. The form wes is imperative. See Was, and Whole.] 1. An ancient expression of good wishes on a festive occasion, especially in drinking to some one. Geoffrey of Monmouth relates, on the authority of Walter Calenius, that this lady [Rowena], the daughter of Hengist, knelt down on the approach of the king, and, presenting him with a cup of wine, exclaimed, Lord king wæs heil, that is, literally, Health be to you. N. Drake. 2. An occasion on which such good wishes are expressed in drinking; a drinking bout; a carouse. "In merry wassail he . . . peals his loud song." Sir W. Scott. The king doth wake to-night and takes his rouse, Keeps wassail. Shak. The victors abandoned themselves to feasting and wassail. Prescott. 3. The liquor used for a wassail; esp., a beverage formerly much used in England at Christmas and other festivals, made of ale (or wine) flavored with spices, sugar, toast, roasted apples, etc.; -- called also lamb's wool. A jolly wassail bowl, A wassail of good ale. Old Song. 4. A festive or drinking song or glee. [Obs.] Have you done your wassail! 'T is a handsome, drowsy ditty, I'll assure you. Beau. & Fl. WASSAIL Was"sail, a. Defn: Of or pertaining to wassail, or to a wassail; convivial; as, a wassail bowl. "Awassail candle, my lord, all tallow." Shak. Wassail bowl, a bowl in which wassail was mixed, and placed upon the table. "Spiced wassail bowl." J. Fletcher. "When the cloth was removed, the butler brought in a huge silver vessel . . . Its appearance was hailed with acclamation, being the wassail bowl so renowned in Christmas festivity." W. Irving. -- Wassail cup, a cup from which wassail was drunk. WASSAIL Was"sail, v. i. Defn: To hold a wassail; to carouse. Spending all the day, and good part of the night, in dancing, caroling, and wassailing. Sir P. Sidney. WASSAILER Was"sail*er, n. Defn: One who drinks wassail; one who engages in festivity, especially in drinking; a reveler. The rudeness and swilled insolence Of such late wassailers. Milton. WAST Wast. Defn: The second person singular of the verb be, in the indicative mood, imperfect tense;