[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

(Zoöl.), a minute black weevil (Craponius inæqualis) which in the larval state eats the interior of grapes. -- Grape flower, or Grape hyacinth (Bot.), a liliaceous plant (Muscari racemosum) with small blue globular flowers in a dense raceme. -- Grape fungus (Bot.), a fungus (Oidium Tuckeri) on grapevines; vine mildew. -- Grape hopper (Zoöl.), a Small yellow and red hemipterous insect, often very injurious to the leaves of the grapevine. -- Grape moth (Zoöl.), a small moth (Eudemis botrana), which in the larval state eats the interior of grapes, and often binds them together with silk. -- Grape of a cannon, the cascabel or knob at the breech. -- Grape sugar. See Glucose. -- Grape worm (Zoöl.), the larva of the grape moth. -- Soar grapes, things which persons affect to despise because they can not possess them; -- in allusion to GRAPE FRUIT Grape" fruit`. Defn: The shaddock. GRAPELESS Grape"less, a. Defn: Wanting grapes or the flavor of grapes. GRAPERY Grap"er*y, n. Defn: A building or inclosure used for the cultivation of grapes. GRAPESHOT Grape"shot`, n. (Mil.) Defn: A cluster, usually nine in number, of small iron balls, put together by means of cast-iron circular plates at top and bottom, with two rings, and a central connecting rod, in order to be used as a charge for a cannon. Formerly grapeshot were inclosed in canvas bags. GRAPESTONE Grape"stone`, n. Defn: A seed of the grape. GRAPEVINE Grape"vine`, n. (Bot.) Defn: A vine or climbing shrub, of the genus Vitis, having small green flowers and lobed leaves, and bearing the fruit called grapes. Note: The common grapevine of the Old World is Vitis vinifera, and is a native of Central Asia. Another variety is that yielding small seedless grapes commonly called Zante currants. The northern Fox grape of the United States is the V. Labrusca, from which, by cultivation, has come the Isabella variety. The southern Fox grape, or Muscadine, is the V. vulpina. The Frost grape is V. cordifolia, which has very fragrant flowers, and ripens after the early frosts. -GRAPH -graph ( Etym: [From Gr. gra`fein to write. See Graphic.] Defn: A suffix signifying something written, a writing; also, a writer; as autograph, crystograph, telegraph, photograph. GRAPHIC; GRAPHICAL Graph"ic, Graph"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. graphicus, Gr. graphique. See Graft.] 1. Of or pertaining to the arts of painting and drawing. 2. Of or pertaining to the art of writing. 3. Written or engraved; formed of letters or lines. The finger of God hath left an inscription upon all his works, not graphical, or composed of letters. Sir T. Browne. 4. Well delineated; clearly and vividly described. 5. Having the faculty of, or characterized by, clear and impressive description; vivid; as, a gruphic writer. Graphic algebra, a branch of algebra in which, the properties of equations are treated by the use of curves and straight lines. -- Graphic arts, a name given to those fine arts which pertain to the representation on a fiat surface of natural objects; as distinguished from music, etc., and also from sculpture. -- Graphic formula. (Chem.) See under Formula. -- Graphic granite. See under Granite. -- Graphic method, the method of scientific analysis or investigation, in which the relations or laws involved in tabular numbers are represented to the eye by means of curves or other figures; as the daily changes of weather by means of curves, the abscissas of which represent the hours of the day, and the ordinates the corresponding degrees of temperature. -- Graphical statics (Math.), a branch of statics, in which the magnitude, direction, and position of forces are represented by straight lines -- Graphic tellurium. See Sylvanite. GRAPHICALLY Graph"ic*al*ly, adv. Defn: In a graphic manner; vividly. GRAPHICNESS; GRAPHICALNESS Graph"ic*ness, Graph"ic*al*ness, n. Defn: The quality or state of being graphic. GRAPHICS Graph"ics, n. Defn: The art or the science of drawing; esp. of drawing according to mathematical rules, as in perspective, projection, and the like. GRAPHISCOPE Graph"i*scope, n. Defn: See Graphoscope. GRAPHITE Graph"ite, n. Etym: [Gr. graphite. See Graphic.] (Min.) Defn: Native carbon in hexagonal crystals, also foliated or granular massive, of black color and metallic luster, and so soft as to leave a trace on paper. It is used for pencils (improperly called lead pencils), for crucibles, and as a lubricator, etc. Often called plumbago or black lead. Graphite battery (Elec.), a voltaic battery consisting of zinc and carbon in sulphuric acid, or other exciting liquid. GRAPHITIC Gra*phit"ic, a. Defn: Pertaining to, containing, derived from, or resembling, graphite. Graphitic acid (Chem.), an organic acid, so called because obtained by the oxidation of graphite; -- usually called mellitic acid. -- Graphitic carbon, in iron or steel, that portion of the carbon which is present as graphite. Raymond. GRAPHITOID; GRAPHITOIDAL Graph"i*toid, Graph"i*toid"al, a. Defn: Resembling graphite or plumbago. GRAPHOLITE Graph"o*lite, n. Etym: [Gr. -lite: cf. F. grapholithe.] Defn: Any species of slate suitable to be written on. GRAPHOLOGY Gra*phol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -logy: cf. F. graphologie.] Defn: The art of judging of a person's character, disposition, and aptitude from his handwriting. GRAPHOPHONE Graph"o*phone, n. [Gr. to write + -phone, as in telephone.] Defn: A kind of photograph. GRAPHOSCOPE Graph"o*scope, n. Etym: [Gr. -scope.] Defn: An optical instrument for magnifying engravings, photographs, etc., usually having one large lens and two smaller ones. GRAPHOTYPE Graph"o*type, n. Etym: [Gr. -type.] (Engraving) Defn: A process for producing a design upon a surface in relief so that it can be printed from. Prepared chalk or oxide of zinc is pressed upon a smooth plate by a hydraulic press, and the design is drawn upon this in a peculiar ink which hardens the surface wherever it is applied. The surface is then carefully rubbed or brushed, leaving the lines in relief. -GRAPHY -gra*phy. Etym: [Gr. Graphic.] Defn: A suffix denoting the art of writing or describing; also, the writing or description itself; a treatise; as, calligraphy, biography, geography. GRAPNEL Grap"nel, n. Etym: [OE. grapenel, dim. fr. F. grappin the grapple of a ship; of German origin. See Grape.] (Naut.) Defn: A small anchor, with four or five flukes or claws, used to hold boats or small vessels; hence, any instrument designed to grapple or hold; a grappling iron; a grab; -- written also grapline, and crapnel. GRAPPLE Grap"ple, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Grappled; p. pr. & vb. n. Grappling.] Etym: [F. grappiller, OF. graypil the grapple of a ship, fr. graper to pluck, prop., to seize, clutch; of German origin. See Grape.] 1. To seize; to lay fast hold of; to attack at close quarters: as, to grapple an antagonist. 2. To fasten, as with a grapple; to fix; to join indissolubly. The gallies were grappled to the Centurion. Hakluyt. Grapple them to thy soul with hoops of steel. Shak. GRAPPLE Grap"ple, v. i. Defn: To use a grapple; to contend in close fight; to attach one's self as if by a grapple, as in wrestling; to close; to seize one another. To grapple with, to enter into contest with, resolutely and courageously. And in my standard bear the arms of York, To grapple with the house of Lancaster. Shak. GRAPPLE Grap"ple, n. Etym: [See Grapple, v. t., and cf. Crapple.] 1. A seizing or seizure; close hug in contest; the wrestler's hold. Milton. 2. (a) An instrument, usually with hinged claws, for seizing and holding fast to an object; a grab. (b) (Naut.) Defn: A grappling iron. The iron hooks and grapples keen. Spenser. Grapple plant (Bot.), a South African herb (Herpagophytum leptocarpum) having the woody fruits armed with long hooked or barbed thorns by which they adhere to cattle, causing intense annoyance. -- Grapple shot (Life-saving Service), a projectile, to which are attached hinged claws to catch in a ship's rigging or to hold in the ground; -- called also anchor shot. GRAPPLEMENT Grapple*ment, n. Defn: A grappling; close fight or embrace. [Obs.] Spenser. GRAPPLING Grap"pling, n. 1. A laying fast ho1d of; also, that by which anything is seized and held, a grapnel. 2. A grapple; a struggle. A match for yards in fight, in grappling for the bear. Dryden. Grappling iron, a hooked iron used for grappling and holding fast a vessel or other object. -- Grappling tongs, broad-mouthed tongs for gathering oysters. GRAPSOID Grap"soid, a. Etym: [NL. Grapsus + -oid.] (Zoöl.) Defn: Pertaining to the genus Grapsus or the family Grapsidæ. -- n. Defn: A grapsoid crab. GRAPTOLITE Grap"to*lite, n. Etym: [NL, Graptolithus, from Gr. (Paleon.) Defn: One of numerous species of slender and delicate fossils, of the genus Graptolites and allied genera, found in the Silurian rocks. They belong to an extinct group (Graptolithina) supposed to be hydroids. GRAPTOLITIC Grap"to*lit`ic, a. Defn: Of or pertaining to graptolites; containing graptolites; as, a graptolitic slate. GRAPY Grap"y, a. Defn: Composed of, or resembling, grapes. The grapy clusters. Addison. GRASP Grasp, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Grasper; p. pr. & vb. n. Qraspine.] Etym: [OE. graspen; prob. akin to LG. grupsen, or to E. grope. Cf. Grab, Grope.] 1. To seize and