[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

actual scale, or to that in actual use. Syn. -- To soften; mollify; assuage; soothe; calm. TEMPER Tem"per, n. 1. The state of any compound substance which results from the mixture of various ingredients; due mixture of different qualities; just combination; as, the temper of mortar. 2. Constitution of body; temperament; in old writers, the mixture or relative proportion of the four humors, blood, choler, phlegm, and melancholy. The exquisiteness of his [Christ's] bodily temper increased the exquisiteness of his torment. Fuller. 3. Disposition of mind; the constitution of the mind, particularly with regard to the passions and affections; as, a calm temper; a hasty temper; a fretful temper. Remember with what mild And gracious temper he both heared and judged. Milton. The consequents of a certain ethical temper. J. H. Newman. 4. Calmness of mind; moderation; equanimity; composure; as, to keep one's temper. To fall with dignity, with temper rise. Pope. Restore yourselves to your tempers, fathers. B. Jonson. 5. Heat of mind or passion; irritation; proneness to anger; -- in a reproachful sense. [Colloq.] 6. The state of a metal or other substance, especially as to its hardness, produced by some process of heating or cooling; as, the temper of iron or steel. 7. Middle state or course; mean; medium. [R.] The perfect lawgiver is a just temper between the mere man of theory, who can see nothing but general principles, and the mere man of business, who can see nothing but particular circumstances. Macaulay. 8. (Sugar Works) Defn: Milk of lime, or other substance, employed in the process formerly used to clarify sugar. Temper screw, in deep well boring, an adjusting screw connecting the working beam with the rope carrying the tools, for lowering the tools as the drilling progresses. Syn. -- Disposition; temperament; frame; humor; mood. See Disposition. TEMPER Tem"per, v. i. 1. To accord; to agree; to act and think in conformity. [Obs.] Shak. 2. To have or get a proper or desired state or quality; to grow soft and pliable. I have him already tempering between my finger and my thumb, and shortly will I seal with him. Shak. TEMPERA Tem"pe*ra, n. Etym: [It.] (Paint.) Defn: A mode or process of painting; distemper. Note: The term is applied especially to early Italian painting, common vehicles of which were yolk of egg, yolk and white of egg mixed together, the white juice of the fig tree, and the like. TEMPERABLE Tem"per*a*ble, a. Defn: Capable of being tempered. The fusible, hard, and temperable texture of metals. Emerson. TEMPERAMENT Tem"per*a*ment, n. Etym: [L. temperamentum a mixing in due proportion, proper measure, temperament: cf. F. tempérament. See Temper, v. t.] 1. Internal constitution; state with respect to the relative proportion of different qualities, or constituent parts. The common law . . . has reduced the kingdom to its just state and temperament. Sir M. Hale. 2. Due mixture of qualities; a condition brought about by mutual compromises or concessions. [Obs.] However, I forejudge not any probable expedient, any temperament that can be found in things of this nature, so disputable on their side. Milton. 3. The act of tempering or modifying; adjustment, as of clashing rules, interests, passions, or the like; also, the means by which such adjustment is effected. Wholesome temperaments of the rashness of popular assemblies. Sir J. Mackintosh. 4. Condition with regard to heat or cold; temperature. [Obs.] Bodies are denominated "hot" and "cold" in proportion to the present temperament of that part of our body to which they are applied. Locke. 5. (Mus.) Defn: A system of compromises in the tuning of organs, pianofortes, and the like, whereby the tones generated with the vibrations of a ground tone are mutually modified and in part canceled, until their number reduced to the actual practicable scale of twelve tones to the octave. This scale, although in so far artificial, is yet closely suggestive of its origin in nature, and this system of tuning, although not mathematically true, yet satisfies the ear, while it has the convenience that the same twelve fixed tones answer for every key or scale, C# becoming identical with D, and so on. 6. (Physiol.) Defn: The peculiar physical and mental character of an individual, in olden times erroneously supposed to be due to individual variation in the relations and proportions of the constituent parts of the body, especially of the fluids, as the bile, blood, lymph, etc. Hence the phrases, bilious or choleric temperament, sanguine temperament, etc., implying a predominance of one of these fluids and a corresponding influence on the temperament. Equal temperament (Mus.), that in which the variations from mathematically true pitch are distributed among all the keys alike. -- Unequal temperament (Mus.), that in which the variations are thrown into the keys least used. TEMPERAMENTAL Tem`per*a*men"tal, a. Defn: Of or pertaining to temperament; constitutional. [R.] Sir T. Browne. TEMPERANCE Tem"per*ance, n. Etym: [L. temperantia: cf. F. tempérance. See Temper, v. t.] 1. Habitual moderation in regard to the indulgence of the natural appetites and passions; restrained or moderate indulgence; moderation; as, temperance in eating and drinking; temperance in the indulgence of joy or mirth; specifically, moderation, and sometimes abstinence, in respect to using intoxicating liquors. 2. Moderation of passion; patience; calmness; sedateness. [R.] "A gentleman of all temperance." Shak. He calmed his wrath with goodly temperance. Spenser. 3. State with regard to heat or cold; temperature. [Obs.] "Tender and delicate temperance." Shak. Temperance society, an association formed for the purpose of diminishing or stopping the use of alcoholic liquors as a beverage. TEMPERANCY Tem"per*an*cy, n. Defn: Temperance. TEMPERATE Tem"per*ate, a. Etym: [L. temperatus, p.p. of temperare. See Temper, v. t.] 1. Moderate; not excessive; as, temperate heat; a temperate climate. 2. Not marked with passion; not violent; cool; calm; as, temperate language. She is not hot, but temperate as the morn. Shak. That sober freedom out of which there springs Our loyal passion for our temperate kings. Tennyson. 3. Moderate in the indulgence of the natural appetites or passions; as, temperate in eating and drinking. Be sober and temperate, and you will be healthy. Franklin. 4. Proceeding from temperance. [R.] The temperate sleeps, and spirits light as air. Pope. Temperate zone (Geog.), that part of the earth which lies between either tropic and the corresponding polar circle; -- so called because the heat is less than in the torrid zone, and the cold less than in the frigid zones. Syn. -- Abstemious; sober; calm; cool; sedate. TEMPERATE Tem"per*ate, v. t. Defn: To render temperate; to moderate; to soften; to temper. [Obs.] It inflames temperance, and temperates wrath. Marston. TEMPERATELY Tem"per*ate*ly, adv. Defn: In a temperate manner. TEMPERATENESS Tem"per*ate*ness, n. Defn: The quality or state of being temperate; moderateness; temperance. TEMPERATIVE Tem"per*a*tive, a. Etym: [Cf. L. temperativus soothing.] Defn: Having power to temper. [R.] T. Granger. TEMPERATURE Tem"per*a*ture, n. Etym: [F. température, L. temperatura due measure, proportion, temper, temperament.] 1. Constitution; state; degree of any quality. The best composition and temperature is, to have openness in fame and opinion, secrecy in habit, dissimulation in seasonable use, and a power to feign, if there be no remedy. Bacon. Memory depends upon the consistence and the temperature of the brain. I. Watts. 2. Freedom from passion; moderation. [Obs.] In that proud port, which her so goodly graceth, Most goodly temperature you may descry. Spenser. 3. (Physics) Defn: Condition with respect to heat or cold, especially as indicated by the sensation produced, or by the thermometer or pyrometer; degree of heat or cold; as, the temperature of the air; high temperature; low temperature; temperature of freezing or of boiling. 4. Mixture; compound. [Obs.] Made a temperature of brass and iron together. Holland. Absolute temperature. (Physics) See under Absolute. -- Animal temperature (Physiol.), the nearly constant temperature maintained in the bodies of warm-blooded (homoiothermal) animals during life. The ultimate source of the heat is to be found in the potential energy of the food and the oxygen which is absorbed from the air during respiration. See Homoiothermal. -- Temperature sense (Physiol.), the faculty of perceiving cold and warmth, and so of perceiving differences of temperature in external objects. H. N. Martin. TEMPERED Tem"pered, a. Defn: Brought to a proper temper; as, tempered steel; having (such) a temper; -- chiefly used in composition; as, a good-tempered or bad- tempered man; a well-tempered sword. TEMPERER Tem"per*er, n. Defn: One who, or that which, tempers; specifically, a machine in which lime, cement, stone, etc., are mixed with water. TEMPERING Tem"per*ing, n. (Metal.) Defn: The process of giving the requisite degree of hardness or softness to a substance, as iron and steel; especially, the process of giving to steel the degree of hardness required for various purposes, consisting usually in first plunging the article, when heated to redness, in cold water or other liquid, to give an excess of hardness, and then reheating it gradually until the hardness is reduced or drawn down to the degree required, as indicated by the color produced on a polished portion, or