[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

acute lancinating pains returning at intervals, and by twinges in certain parts of the face, producing convulsive twitches in the corresponding muscles; -- called also tic douloureux. -- Face card, one of a pack of playing cards on which a human face is represented; the king, queen, or jack. -- Face cloth, a cloth laid over the face of a corpse. -- Face guard, a mask with windows for the eyes, worn by workman exposed to great heat, or to flying particles of metal, stone, etc., as in glass works, foundries, etc. -- Face hammer, a hammer having a flat face. -- Face joint (Arch.), a joint in the face of a wall or other structure. -- Face mite (Zoöll.), a small, elongated mite (Demdex folliculorum), parasitic in the hair follicles of the face. -- Face mold, the templet or pattern by which carpenters, ect., outline the forms which are to be cut out from boards, sheet metal, ect. -- Face plate. (a) (Turning) A plate attached to the spindle of a lathe, to which the work to be turned may be attached. (b) A covering plate for an object, to receive wear or shock. (c) A true plane for testing a dressed surface. Knight. -- Face wheel. (Mach.) (a) A crown wheel. (b) A Wheel whose disk face is adapted for grinding and polishing; a lap. Cylinder face (Steam Engine), the flat part of a steam cylinder on which a slide valve moves. -- Face of an anvil, its flat upper surface. -- Face of a bastion (Fort.), the part between the salient and the shoulder angle. -- Face of coal (Mining), the principal cleavage plane, at right angles to the stratification. -- Face of a gun, the surface of metal at the muzzle. -- Face of a place (Fort.), the front comprehended between the flanked angles of two neighboring bastions. Wilhelm. -- Face of a square (Mil.), one of the sides of a battalion when formed in a square. -- Face of a watch, clock, compass, card etc., the dial or graduated surface on which a pointer indicates the time of day, point of the compass, etc. -- Face to face. (a) In the presence of each other; as, to bring the accuser and the accused face to face. (b) Without the interposition of any body or substance. "Now we see through a glass darkly; but then face to face." 1 Cor. xiii. 12. (c) With the faces or finished surfaces turned inward or toward one another; vis à vis; -- opposed to back to back. -- To fly in the face of, to defy; to brave; to withstand. -- To make a face, to distort the countenance; to make a grimace. Shak. FACE Face, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Faced; p. pr. & vb. n. Facing.] 1. To meet in front; to oppose with firmness; to resist, or to meet for the purpose of stopping or opposing; to confront; to encounter; as, to face an enemy in the field of battale. I'll face This tempest, and deserve the name of king. Dryden. 2. To Confront impudently; to bully. I will neither be facednor braved. Shak. 3. To stand opposite to; to stand with the face or front toward; to front upon; as, the apartments of the general faced the park. He gained also with his forces that part of Britain which faces Ireland. Milton. 4. To cover in front, for ornament, protection, etc.; to put a facing upon; as, a building faced with marble. 5. To line near the edge, esp. with a different material; as, to face the front of a coat, or the bottom of a dress. 6. To cover with better, or better appearing, material than the mass consists of, for purpose of deception, as the surface of a box of tea, a barrel of sugar, etc. 7. (Mach.) Defn: To make the surface of (anything) flat or smooth; to dress the face of (a stone, a casting, etc.); esp., in turning, to shape or smooth the flat surface of, as distinguished from the cylindrical surface. 8. To cause to turn or present a face or front, as in a particular direction. To face down, to put down by bold or impudent opposition. "He faced men down." Prior. -- To face (a thing) out, to persist boldly or impudently in an assertion or in a line of conduct. "That thinks with oaths to face the matter out." Shak FACE Face, v. i. 1. To carry a false appearance; to play the hypocrite. "To lie, to face, to forge." Spenser. 2. To turn the face; as, to face to the right or left. Face about, man; a soldier, and afraid! Dryden. 3. To present a face or front. FACED Faced, a. Defn: Having (such) a face, or (so many) faces; as, smooth-faced, two-faced. FACER Fa"cer, n. 1. One who faces; one who puts on a false show; a bold-faced person. [Obs.] There be no greater talkers, nor boasters, nor fasers. Latimer. 2. A blow in the face, as in boxing; hence, any severe or stunning check or defeat, as in controversy. [Collog.] I should have been a stercoraceous mendicant if I had hollowed when I got a facer. C. Kingsley. FACET Fac"et, n. Etym: [F. facette, dim. of face face. See Face.] 1. A little face; a small, plane surface; as, the facets of a diamond. [Written also facette.] 2. (Anat.) Defn: A smooth circumscribed surface; as, the articular facet of a bone. 3. (Arch.) Defn: The narrow plane surface between flutings of a column. 4. (Zoöl.) Defn: One of the numerous small eyes which make up the compound eyes of insects and crustaceans. FACET Fac"et, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Faceted; p. pr. & vb. n. Faceting.] Defn: To cut facets or small faces upon; as, to facet a diamond. FACETE Fa*cete", a. Etym: [L. facetus elegant, fine, facetious; akin to facies. See Face, and cf. Facetious.] Defn: Facetious; witty; humorous. [Archaic] "A facete discourse." Jer. Taylor. "How to interpose" with a small, smart remark, sentiment facete, or unctuous anecdote. Prof. Wilson. -- Fa*cete"ly, adv. -- Fa*cete"ness, n. FACETED Fac"et*ed, a. Defn: Having facets. FACETIAE Fa*ce"ti*æ (, n. pl. Etym: [L., fr. facetus. See Facete.] Defn: Witty or humorous writings or saying; witticisms; merry conceits. FACETIOUS Fa*ce"tious, a. Etym: [Cf. F. facétieux. See Facetiæ.] 1. Given to wit and good humor; merry; sportive; jocular; as, a facetious companion. 2. Characterized by wit and pleasantry; exciting laughter; as, a facetious story or reply. -- Fa*ce"tious*ly, adv. -- Fa*ce"tious*ness, n. FACETTE Fa*cette", n. Etym: [F.] Defn: See Facet, n. FACEWORK Face"work`, n. Defn: The material of the outside or front side, as of a wall or building; facing. FACIA Fa"ci*a, n. (Arch.) Defn: See Fascia. FACIAL Fa"cial, a. Etym: [LL. facialis, fr. L. facies face : cf. F. facial.] Defn: Of or pertaining to the face; as, the facial artery, vein, or nerve. -- Fa"cial*ly, adv. Facial angle (Anat.), the angle, in a skull, included between a straight line (ab, in the illustrations), from the most prominent part of the forehead to the front efge of the upper jaw bone, and another (cd) from this point to the center of the external auditory opening. See Gnathic index, under Gnathic. FACIEND Fa"ci*end, n. Etym: [From neut. of L. faciendus, gerundive of facere to do.] (Mach.) Defn: The multiplicand. See Facient, 2. FACIENT Fa"cient, n. Etym: [L. faciens, -- entis, p. pr. of facere to make, do. See Fact.] 1. One who does anything, good or bad; a doer; an agent. [Obs.] Br. Hacket. 2. (Mach.) (a) One of the variables of a quantic as distinguished from a coefficient. (b) The multiplier. Note: The terms facient, faciend, and factum, may imply that the multiplication involved is not ordinary multiplication, but is either some specified operation, or, in general, any mathematical operation. See Multiplication. FACIES Fa"ci*es, n. Etym: [L., from, face. See Face.] 1. The anterior part of the head; the face. 2. (Biol.) Defn: The general aspect or habit of a species, or group of species, esp. with reference to its adaptation to its environment. 3. (Zoöl.) Defn: The face of a bird, or the front of the head, excluding the bill. Facies Hippocratica. (Med.) See Hippocratic. FACILE Fac"ile a. Etym: [L. facilis, prop., capable of being done or made, hence, facile, easy, fr. facere to make, do: cf. F. facile. Srr Fact, and cf. Faculty.] 1. Easy to be done or performed: not difficult; performable or attainable with little labor. Order . . . will render the work facile and delightful. Evelyn. 2. Easy to be surmounted or removed; easily conquerable; readily mastered. The facile gates of hell too slightly barred. Milton. 3. Easy of access or converse; mild; courteous; not haughty, austere, or distant; affable; complaisant. I meant she should be courteous, facile, sweet. B. Jonson. 4. Easily persuaded to good or bad; yielding; ductile to a fault; pliant; flexible. Since Adam, and his