[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

hog`. (Zoöl.) Defn: The porpoise. SEA HOLLY Sea" hol"ly. (Bot.) Defn: An evergeen seashore plant (Eryngium maritimum). See Eryngium. SEA HOLM Sea" holm`. Defn: A small uninhabited island. SEA HOLM Sea" holm`. (Bot.) Defn: Sea holly. SEA HORSE Sea" horse`. 1. A fabulous creature, half horse and half fish, represented in classic mythology as driven by sea dogs or ridden by the Nereids. It is also depicted in heraldry. See Hippocampus. 2. (Zoöl.) (a) The walrus. (b) Any fish of the genus Hippocampus. Note: In a passage of Dryden's, the word is supposed to refer to the hippopotamus. SEA HULVER Sea" hul"ver. (Bot.) Defn: Sea holly. SEA-ISLAND Sea"-is`land, a. Defn: Of or pertaining to certain islands along the coast of South Carolina and Georgia; as, sea-island cotton, a superior cotton of long fiber produced on those islands. SEA JELLY Sea" jel"ly. (Zoöl.) Defn: A medusa, or jellyfish. SEAK Seak, n. Defn: Soap prepared for use in milling cloth. SEA KALE Sea" kale". (Bot.) Defn: See under Kale. SEA KING Sea" king`. Defn: One of the leaders among the Norsemen who passed their lives in roving the seas in search of plunder and adventures; a Norse pirate chief. See the Note under Viking. SEAL Seal, n. Etym: [OE. sele, AS. seolh; akin to OHG. selah, Dan. sæl, Sw. själ, Icel. selr.] (Zoöl.) Defn: Any aquatic carnivorous mammal of the families Phocidæ and Otariidæ. Note: Seals inhabit seacoasts, and are found principally in the higher latitudes of both hemispheres. There are numerous species, bearing such popular names as sea lion, sea leopard, sea bear, or ursine seal, fur seal, and sea elephant. The bearded seal (Erignathus barbatus), the hooded seal (Cystophora crustata), and the ringed seal (Phoca foetida), are northern species. See also Eared seal, Harp seal, and Fur seal, under Eared, Harp, Monk, and Fur. Seals are much hunted for their skins and fur, and also for their oil, which in some species is very abundant. Harbor seal (Zoöl.), the common seal (Phoca vitulina). It inhabits both the North Atlantic and the North Pacific Ocean, and often ascends rivers; -- called also marbled seal, native seal, river seal, bay seal, land seal, sea calf, sea cat, sea dog, dotard, ranger, selchie, tangfish. SEAL Seal, n. Etym: [OE. seel, OF. seel, F. sceau, fr. L. sigillum a little figure or image, a seal, dim. of signum a mark, sign, figure, or image. See Sign, n., and cf. Sigil.] 1. An engraved or inscribed stamp, used for marking an impression in wax or other soft substance, to be attached to a document, or otherwise used by way of authentication or security. 2. Wax, wafer, or other tenacious substance, set to an instrument, and impressed or stamped with a seal; as, to give a deed under hand and seal. Till thou canst rail the seal from off my bond Thou but offend;st thy lungs to speak so loud. Shak. 3. That which seals or fastens; esp., the wax or wafer placed on a letter or other closed paper, etc., to fasten it. 4. That which confirms, ratifies, or makes stable; that which authenticates; that which secures; assurance. "under the seal of silence." Milton. Like a red seal is the setting sun On the good and the evil men have done. Lonfellow. 5. An arrangement for preventing the entrance or return of gas or air into a pipe, by which the open end of the pipe dips beneath the surface of water or other liquid, or a deep bend or sag in the pipe is filled with the liquid; a draintrap. Great seal. See under Great. -- Privy seal. See under Privy, a. -- Seal lock, a lock in which the keyhole is covered by a seal in such a way that the lock can not be opened without rupturing the seal. Seal manual. See under Manual, a. -- Seal ring, a ring having a seal engraved on it, or ornamented with a device resembling a seal; a signet ring. Shak. SEAL Seal, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Sealed; p. pr. & vb. n. Skaling.] Etym: [OE. selen; cf. OF. seeler, seieler, F. sceller, LL. sigillare. See Seal a stamp.] 1. To set or affix a seal to; hence, to authenticate; to confirm; to ratify; to establish; as, to seal a deed. And with my hand I seal my true heart's love. Shak. 2. To mark with a stamp, as an evidence of standard exactness, legal size, or merchantable quality; as, to seal weights and measures; to seal silverware. 3. To fasten with a seal; to attach together with a wafer, wax, or other substance causing adhesion; as, to seal a letter. 4. Hence, to shut close; to keep close; to make fast; to keep secure or secret. Seal up your lips, and give no words but "mum". Shak. 5. To fix, as a piece of iron in a wall, with cement, plaster, or the like. Gwilt. 6. To close by means of a seal; as, to seal a drainpipe with water. See 2d Seal, 5. 7. Among the Mormons, to confirm or set apart as a second or additional wife. [Utah, U.S.] If a man once married desires a second helpmate . . . she is sealed to him under the solemn sanction of the church. H. Stansbury. SEAL Seal, v. i. Defn: To affix one's seal, or a seal. [Obs.] I will seal unto this bond. Shak. SEA LACES Sea" la"ces. (Bot.) Defn: A kind of seaweed (Chorda Filum) having blackish cordlike fronds, often many feet long. SEA LAMPREY Sea" lam"prey. (Zoöl.) Defn: The common lamprey. SEA LANGUAGE Sea" lan"guage. Defn: The peculiar language or phraseology of seamen; sailor's cant. SEA LARK Sea" lark`. (Zoöl.) (a) The rock pipit (Anthus obscurus). (b) Any one of several small sandpipers and plovers, as the ringed plover, the turnstone, the dunlin, and the sanderling. SEA LAVENDER Sea" lav"en*der. (Bot.) Defn: See Marsh rosemary, under Marsh. SEA LAWYER Sea" law"yer. (Zoöl.) Defn: The gray snapper. See under Snapper. SEAL-BROWN Seal"-brown`, a. Defn: Of a rich dark brown color, like the fur of the fur seal after it is dyed. SEA LEGS Sea" legs`. Defn: Legs able to maintain their possessor upright in stormy weather at sea, that is, ability stand or walk steadily on deck when a vessel is rolling or pitching in a rough sea. [Sailor's Cant] Totten. SEA LEMON Sea" lem"on. (Zoöl.) Defn: Any one of several species of nudibranchiate mollusks of the genus Doris and allied genera, having a smooth, thick, convex yellow body. SEA LEOPARD Sea" leop"ard. (Zoöl.) Defn: Any one of several species of spotted seals, especially Ogmorhinus leptonyx, and Leptonychotes Weddelli, of the Antarctic Ocean. The North Pacific sea leopard is the harbor seal. SEALER Seal"er, n. Defn: One who seals; especially, an officer whose duty it is to seal writs or instruments, to stamp weights and measures, or the like. SEALER Sealer, n. Defn: A mariner or a vessel engaged in the business of capturing seals. SEA LETTER Sea" let"ter. (Mar. Law.) Defn: The customary certificate of national character which neutral merchant vessels are bound to carry in time of war; a passport for a vessel and cargo. SEA LETTUCE Sea" let"tuce. (Bot.) Defn: The green papery fronds of several seaweeds of the genus Ulva, sometimes used as food. SEA LEVEL Sea" lev"el. Defn: The level of the surface of the sea; any surface on the same level with the sea. SEALGH; SELCH Sealgh, Selch, n.. (Zoöl.) Defn: A seal. [Scotch] SEA LILY Sea" lil"y. (Zoöl.) Defn: A crinoid. SEALING WAX Seal"ing wax`. Defn: A compound of the resinous materials, pigments, etc., used as a material for seals, as for letters, documents, etc. SEA LION Sea" li"on. (Zoöl.) Defn: Any one of several large species of seals of the family Otariidæ native of the Pacific Ocean, especially the southern sea lion (Otaria jubata) of the South American coast; the northern sea lion (Eumetopias Stelleri) found from California to Japan; and the black, or California, sea lion (Zalophus Californianus), which is common on the rocks near San Francisco. SEA LOACH Sea" loach". (Zoöl.) Defn: The three-bearded rockling. See Rockling. SEA LOUSE Sea" louse`. (Zoöl.) Defn: Any one of numerous species of isopod crustaceans of Cymothoa, Livoneca, and allied genera, mostly parasites on fishes. SEALSKIN Seal"skin`, n. Defn: The skin of a seal; the pelt of a seal prepared for use, esp. of the fur seal; also, a garment made of this material. SEAM Seam, n. Etym: [See Saim.] Defn: Grease; tallow; lard. [Obs. or prov. Eng.] Shak. Dryden. SEAM Seam, n. Etym: [OE. seem, seam, AS. seám; akin to D. zoom, OHG. soum, G. saum, LG. soom, Icel. saumr, Sw. & Dan. söm, and E. sew. sq. root 156. See Sew to fasten with thread.] 1. The fold or line formed by sewing together two pieces of cloth or leather. 2. Hence, a line of junction; a joint; a suture, as on a ship, a floor, or other structure; the