[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

move toward the east; to veer from the north or south toward the east; to orientate. EASTER Eas"ter, n. Etym: [AS. eáster, eástran, paschal feast, Easter; akin to G. ostern; fr. AS. Eástre, a goddess of light or spring, in honor of whom a festival was celebrated in April; whence this month was called in AS. Eásterm. From the root of E. east. See East.] 1. An annual church festival commemorating Christ's resurrection, and occurring on Sunday, the second day after Good Friday. It corresponds to the pasha or passover of the Jews, and most nations still give it this name under the various forms of pascha, pasque, pâque, or pask. 2. The day on which the festival is observed; Easter day. Note: Easter is used either adjectively or as the first element of a compound; as, Easter day or Easter-day, Easter Sunday, Easter week, Easter gifts. Sundays by thee more glorious break, An Easter day in every week. Keble. Note: Easter day, on which the rest of the movable feasts depend, is always the first Sunday after the fourteenth day of the calendar moon which (fourteenth day) falls on, or next after, the 21st of March, according to the rules laid down for the construction of the calendar; so that if the fourteenth day happen on a Sunday, Easter day is the Sunday after. Eng. Cyc. Easter dues (Ch. of Eng.), money due to the clergy at Easter, formerly paid in communication of the tithe for personal labor and subject to exaction. For Easter dues, Easter offerings, voluntary gifts, have been substituted. -- Easter egg. (a) A painted or colored egg used as a present at Easter. (b) An imitation of an egg, in sugar or some fine material, sometimes made to serve as a box for jewelry or the like, used as an Easter present. EASTER East"er, v. i. (Naut.) Defn: To veer to the east; -- said of the wind. Russell. EASTER LILY Eas"ter lil`y. (Bot.) Any one of various lilies or lilylike flowers which bloom about Easter; specif.: (a) The common white lily (Lilium candidum), called also Annunciation lily. (b) The larger white lily (Lilium longiflorum eximium, syn. L. Harrisii) called also Bermuda lily. (c) The daffodil (Narcissus Pseudo-Narcissus). (d) The Atamasco lily. EASTERLING East"er*ling, n. Etym: [Cf. Sterling.] 1. A native of a country eastward of another; -- used, by the English, of traders or others from the coasts of the Baltic. Merchants of Norway, Denmark, . . . called . . . Easterlings because they lie east in respect of us. Holinshed. 2. A piece of money coined in the east by Richard II. of England. Crabb. 3. (Zoöl.) Defn: The smew. EASTERLING East"er*ling, a. Defn: Relating to the money of the Easterlings, or Baltic traders. See Sterling. EASTERLY East"er*ly, a. 1. Coming from the east; as, it was easterly wind. 2. Situated, directed, or moving toward the east; as, the easterly side of a lake; an easterly course or voyage. EASTERLY East"er*ly, adv. Defn: Toward, or in the direction of, the east. EASTERN East"ern, a. Etym: [AS. eástern.] 1. Situated or dwelling in the east; oriental; as, an eastern gate; Eastern countries. Eastern churches first did Christ embrace. Stirling. 2. Going toward the east, or in the direction of east; as, an eastern voyage. Eastern Church. See Greek Church, under Greek. EASTERN CHURCH Eastern Church. Defn: That portion of the Christian church which prevails in the countries once comprised in the Eastern Roman Empire and the countries converted to Christianity by missionaries from them. Its full official title is The Orthodox Catholic Apostolic Eastern Church. It became estranged from the Western, or Roman, Church over the question of papal supremacy and the doctrine of the filioque, and a separation, begun in the latter part of the 9th century, became final in 1054. The Eastern Church consists of twelve (thirteen if the Bulgarian Church be included) mutually independent churches (including among these the Hellenic Church, or Church of Greece, and the Russian Church), using the vernacular (or some ancient form of it) in divine service and varying in many points of detail, but standing in full communion with each other and united as equals in a great federation. The highest five authorities are the patriarch of Constantinople, or ecumenical patriarch (whose position is not one of supremacy, but of precedence), the patriarch of Alexandria, the patriarch of Jerusalem, the patriarch of Antioch, and the Holy Synod of Russia. The Eastern Church accepts the first seven ecumenical councils (and is hence styled only schismatic, not heretical, by the Roman Catholic Church), has as its creed the Niceno- Constantinopolitan (without the later addition of the filioque, which, with the doctrine it represents, the church decisively rejects), baptizes infants with trine immersion, makes confirmation follow immediately upon baptism, administers the Communion in both kinds (using leavened bread) and to infants as well as adults, permits its secular clergy to marry before ordination and to keep their wives afterward, but not to marry a second time, selects its bishops from the monastic clergy only, recognizes the offices of bishop, priest, and deacon as the three necessary degrees of orders, venerates relics and icons, and has an elaborate ritual. EASTERNMOST East"ern*most`, a. Defn: Most eastern. EAST INDIAN East" In"di*an (; see Indian). Defn: Belonging to, or relating to, the East Indies. -- n. Defn: A native of, or a dweller in, the East Indies. EASTING East"ing, n. (Naut. & Surv.) Defn: The distance measured toward the east between two meridians drawn through the extremities of a course; distance of departure eastward made by a vessel. EAST-INSULAR East`-in"su*lar, a. Defn: Relating to the Eastern Islands; East Indian. [R.] Ogilvie. EASTWARD; EASTWARDS East"ward, East"wards, adv. Defn: Toward the east; in the direction of east from some point or place; as, New Haven lies eastward from New York. EASY Eas"y, a. [Compar. Easier; superl. Easiest.] Etym: [OF. aisié, F. aisé, prop. p. p. of OF. aisier. See Ease, v. t.] 1. At ease; free from pain, trouble, or constraint; as: (a) Free from pain, distress, toil, exertion, and the like; quiet; as, the patient is easy. (b) Free from care, responsibility, discontent, and the like; not anxious; tranquil; as, an easy mind. (c) Free from constraint, harshness, or formality; unconstrained; smooth; as, easy manners; an easy style. "The easy vigor of a line." Pope. 2. Not causing, or attended with, pain or disquiet, or much exertion; affording ease or rest; as, an easy carriage; a ship having an easy motion; easy movements, as in dancing. "Easy ways to die." Shak. 3. Not difficult; requiring little labor or effort; slight; inconsiderable; as, an easy task; an easy victory. It were an easy leap. Shak. 4. Causing ease; giving freedom from care or labor; furnishing comfort; commodious; as, easy circumstances; an easy chair or cushion. 5. Not making resistance or showing unwillingness; tractable; yielding; complying; ready. He gained their easy hearts. Dryden. He is too tyrannical to be an easy monarch. Sir W. Scott. 6. Moderate; sparing; frugal. [Obs.] Chaucer. 7. (Com.) Defn: Not straitened as to money matters; as, the market is easy; -- opposed to tight. Honors are easy (Card Playing), said when each side has an equal number of honors, in which case they are not counted as points. Syn. -- Quiet; comfortable; manageable; tranquil; calm; facile; unconcerned. EASY-CHAIR Eas"y-chair`, n. Defn: An armichair for ease or repose. "Laugh . . . in Rabelais' easy-chair." Pope. EASY-GOING Eas"y-go`ing, a. Defn: Moving easily; hence, mild-tempered; ease-loving; inactive. EAT Eat, v. t. [imp. Ate, Obsolescent & Colloq. Eat (; p. p. Eaten, Obs. or Colloq. Eat (p. pr. & vb. n. Eating.] Etym: [OE. eten, AS. etan; akin to OS. etan, OFries. eta, D. eten, OHG. ezzan, G. essen, Icel. eta, Sw. äta, Dan. æde, Goth. itan, Ir. & Gael. ith, W. ysu, L. edere, Gr. ad. Etch, Fret to rub, Edible.] 1. To chew and swallow as food; to devour; -- said especially of food not liquid; as, to eat bread. "To eat grass as oxen." Dan. iv. 25. They . . . ate the sacrifices of the dead. Ps. cvi. 28. The lean . . . did eat up the first seven fat kine. Gen. xli. 20. The lion had not eaten the carcass. 1 Kings xiii. 28. With stories told of many a feat, How fairy Mab junkets eat. Milton. The island princes overbold Have eat our substance. Tennyson. His wretched estate is eaten up with mortgages. Thackeray. 2. To corrode, as metal, by rust; to consume the flesh, as a cancer; to waste or wear away; to destroy gradually; to cause to disappear. To eat humble pie. See under Humble. -- To eat of (partitive use). "Eat of the bread that can not waste." Keble. -- To eat one's words, to retract what one has said. (See the Citation under Blurt.) -- To eat out, to consume completely. "Eat out the heart and comfort of it." Tillotson. -- To