[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

eyes. Cf. Drake a dragon, Dragoon.] 1. (Myth.) Defn: A fabulous animal, generally represented as a monstrous winged serpent or lizard, with a crested head and enormous claws, and regarded as very powerful and ferocious. The dragons which appear in early paintings and sculptures are invariably representations of a winged crocodile. Fairholt. Note: In Scripture the term dragon refers to any great monster, whether of the land or sea, usually to some kind of serpent or reptile, sometimes to land serpents of a powerful and deadly kind. It is also applied metaphorically to Satan. Thou breakest the heads of the dragons in the waters. Ps. lxxiv. 13. Thou shalt tread upon the lion and adder; the young lion and the dragon shalt thou trample under feet. Ps. xci. 13. He laid hold on the dragon, that old serpent, which is the Devil and Satan, and bound him a thousand years. Rev. xx. 2. 2. A fierce, violent person, esp. a woman. Johnson. 3. (Astron.) Defn: A constellation of the northern hemisphere figured as a dragon; Draco. 4. A luminous exhalation from marshy grounds, seeming to move through the air as a winged serpent. 5. (Mil. Antiq.) Defn: A short musket hooked to a swivel attached to a soldier's belt; -- so called from a representation of a dragon's head at the muzzle. Fairholt. 6. (Zoöl.) Defn: A small arboreal lizard of the genus Draco, of several species, found in the East Indies and Southern Asia. Five or six of the hind ribs, on each side, are prolonged and covered with weblike skin, forming a sort of wing. These prolongations aid them in making long leaps from tree to tree. Called also flying lizard. 7. (Zoöl.) Defn: A variety of carrier pigeon. 8. (Her.) Defn: A fabulous winged creature, sometimes borne as a charge in a coat of arms. Note: Dragon is often used adjectively, or in combination, in the sense of relating to, resembling, or characteristic of, a dragon. Dragon arum (Bot.), the name of several species of Arisæma, a genus of plants having a spathe and spadix. See Dragon root(below). -- Dragon fish (Zoöl.), the dragonet. -- Dragon fly (Zoöl.), any insect of the family Libellulidæ. They have finely formed, large and strongly reticulated wings, a large head with enormous eyes, and a long body; -- called also mosquito hawks. Their larvæ are aquatic and insectivorous. -- Dragon root (Bot.), an American aroid plant (Arisæma Dracontium); green dragon. -- Dragon's blood, a resinous substance obtained from the fruit of several species of Calamus, esp. from C. Rotang and C. Draco, growing in the East Indies. A substance known as dragon's blood is obtained by exudation from Dracæna Draco; also from Pterocarpus Draco, a tree of the West Indies and South America. The color is red, or a dark brownish red, and it is used chiefly for coloring varnishes, marbles, etc. Called also Cinnabar Græcorum. -- Dragon's head. (a) (Bot.) A plant of several species of the genus Dracocephalum. They are perennial herbs closely allied to the common catnip. (b) (Astron.) The ascending node of a planet, indicated, chiefly in almanacs, by the symbol Encyc. Brit. -- Dragon shell (Zoöl.), a species of limpet. -- Dragon's skin, fossil stems whose leaf scars somewhat resemble the scales of reptiles; -- a name used by miners and quarrymen. Stormonth. -- Dragon's tail (Astron.), the descending node of a planet, indicated by the symbol Dragon's head (above). -- Dragon's wort (Bot.), a plant of the genus Artemisia (A. dracunculus). -- Dragon tree (Bot.), a West African liliaceous tree (Dracæna Draco), yielding one of the resins called dragon's blood. See Dracæna. -- Dragon water, a medicinal remedy very popular in the earlier half of the 17th century. "Dragon water may do good upon him." Randolph (1640). -- Flying dragon, a large meteoric fireball; a bolide. DRAGONET Drag"on*et, n. 1. A little dragon. Spenser. 2. (Zoöl.) Defn: A small British marine fish (Callionymuslyra); -- called also yellow sculpin, fox, and gowdie. DRAGONISH Drag"on*ish, a. Defn: resembling a dragon. Shak. DRAGONLIKE Drag"on*like`, a. Defn: Like a dragon. Shak. DRAGONNADE Drag`on*nade", n. Etym: [F., fr. dragon dragoon, because Louis XIV., in persecuting the Protestants of his kingdom, quartered dragoons upon them.] Defn: The severe persecution of French Protestants under Louis XIV., by an armed force, usually of dragoons; hence, a rapid and devastating incursion; dragoonade. He learnt it as he watched the dragonnades, the tortures, the massacres of the Netherlands. C. Kingsley. DRAGON'S BLOOD; DRAGON'S HEAD; DRAGON'S TAIL Drag"on's blood, Drag"on's head, Drag"on's tail. Defn: See Dragon's blood, Dragon's head, etc., under Dragon. DRAGOON Dra*goon", n. Etym: [F. dragon dragon, dragoon, fr. L. draco dragon, also, a cohort's standard (with a dragon on it). The name was given from the sense standard. See Dragon.] 1. ((Mil.) Defn: Formerly, a soldier who was taught and armed to serve either on horseback or on foot; now, a mounted soldier; a cavalry man. 2. A variety of pigeon. Clarke. Dragoon bird (Zoöl.), the umbrella bird. DRAGOON Dra*goon", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Dragooned; p. pr. & vb. n. Dragooning.] 1. To harass or reduce to subjection by dragoons; to persecute by abandoning a place to the rage of soldiers. 2. To compel submission by violent measures; to harass; to persecute. The colonies may be influenced to anything, but they can be dragooned to nothing. Price. Lewis the Fourteenth is justly censured for trying to dragoon his subjects to heaven. Macaulay. DRAGOONADE Drag`oon*ade", n. Defn: See Dragonnade. DRAGOONER Dra*goon"er, n. Defn: A dragoon. [Obs.] DRAIL Drail, v. t. & i. [ Defn: To trail; to draggle. [Obs.] South. DRAIN Drain, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Drained; p. pr. & vb. n. Draining.] Etym: [AS. drehnigean to drain, strain; perh. akin to E. draw.] 1. To draw off by degrees; to cause to flow gradually out or off; hence, to cause the exhaustion of. Fountains drain the water from the ground adjacent. Bacon. But it was not alone that the he drained their treasure and hampered their industry. Motley. 2. To exhaust of liquid contents by drawing them off; to make gradually dry or empty; to remove surface water, as from streets, by gutters, etc.; to deprive of moisture; hence, to exhaust; to empty of wealth, resources, or the like; as, to drain a country of its specie. Sinking waters, the firm land to drain, Filled the capacious deep and formed the main. Roscommon. 3. To filter. Salt water, drained through twenty vessels of earth, hath become fresh. Bacon. DRAIN Drain, v. i. 1. To flow gradually; as, the water of low ground drains off. 2. To become emptied of liquor by flowing or dropping; as, let the vessel stand and drain. DRAIN Drain, n. 1. The act of draining, or of drawing off; gradual and continuous outflow or withdrawal; as, the drain of specie from a country. 2. That means of which anything is drained; a channel; a trench; a water course; a sewer; a sink. 3. pl. Defn: The grain from the mashing tub; as, brewers' drains. [Eng.] Halliwell. Box drain, Counter drain. See under Box, Counter. -- Right of drain (Law), an easement or servitude by which one man has a right to convey water in pipes through or over the estate of another. Kent. DRAINABLE Drain"a*ble, a. Defn: Capable of being drained. DRAINAGE Drain"age, n. 1. A draining; a gradual flowing off of any liquid; also, that which flows out of a drain. 2. The mode in which the waters of a country pass off by its streams and rivers. 3. (Engin.) Defn: The system of drains and their operation, by which superfluous water is removed from towns, railway beds, mines, and other works. 4. Area or district drained; as, the drainage of the Po, the Thames, etc. Latham. 5. (Surg.) Defn: The act, process, or means of drawing off the pus or fluids from a wound, abscess, etc. Drainage tube (Surg.), a tube introduced into a wound, etc., to draw off the discharges. DRAINE Draine, n. Etym: [F.] (Zoöl.) Defn: The missel thrush. DRAINER Drain"er, n. Defn: One who, or that which, drains. DRAINING Drain"ing, vb. n. Etym: of Drain, v. t. (Agric.) Defn: The art of carrying off surplus water, as from land. Draining tile. Same as Draintile. DRAINPIPE Drain"pipe`, n. Defn: A pipe used for carrying off surplus water. DRAINTILE Drain"tile`, n. Defn: A hollow tile used in making drains; -- called also draining tile. DRAINTRAP Drain"trap`, n. Defn: See 4th Trap, 5. DRAKE Drake, n. Etym: [Akin to LG. drake, OHG. antrache, anetrecho, G. enterich, Icel. andriki, Dan. andrik, OSw. andrak, andrage, masc., and fr. AS. ened, fem., duck; akin to D. eend, G. ente, Icel. önd, Dan. and, Sw. and, Lith. antis, L. anas, Gr. ati a water fowl. rich. Cf. Gulaund.] 1. The male of the duck kind. 2. Etym: [Cf. Dragon fly, under Dragon.] Defn: The drake fly. The drake will mount steeple height into the air. Walton. Drake