[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

by the lark, hath roused the ribald crows. Shak. RIBALDISH Rib"ald*ish, a. Defn: Like a ribald. Bp. Hall. RIBALDROUS Rib"ald*rous, a. Defn: Of a ribald quality. [R.] RIBALDRY Rib"ald*ry, n. Etym: [OE. ribaldrie, ribaudrie, OF. ribalderie, ribauderie.] Defn: The talk of a ribald; low, vulgar language; indecency; obscenity; lewdness; -- now chiefly applied to indecent language, but formerly, as by Chaucer, also to indecent acts or conduct. The ribaldry of his conversation moved Macaulay. RIBAN Rib"an, n. Defn: See Ribbon. [Obs.] Piers Plowman. RIBAND Rib"and, n. Defn: See Ribbon. Riband jasper (Min.), a variety of jasper having stripes of different colors, as red and green. RIBAND Rib"and, n. (Naut.) Defn: See Rib-band. Totten. RIBANDED Rib"and*ed, a. Defn: Ribboned. B. Jonson. RIBAUD Rib"aud, n. Defn: A ribald. [Obs.] P. Plowman. RIBAUDEQUIN Ri*bau"de*quin, n. Etym: [F.] 1. An engine of war used in the Middle Ages, consisting of a protected elevated staging on wheels, and armed in front with pikes. It was (after the 14th century) furnished with small cannon. 2. A huge bow fixed on the wall of a fortified town for casting javelins. RIBAUDRED; RIBAUDROUS Rib"aud*red, Rib"aud*rous, a. Defn: Filthy; obscene; ribald. [Obs.] RIBAUDRY Rib"aud*ry, n. Defn: Ribaldry. [Obs.] Spenser. RIBAUDY Rib"aud*y, n. Defn: Ribaldry. [Obs.] Chaucer. RIBAULD Rib"auld, n. Defn: A ribald. [Obs.] Spenser. RIBBAND Rib"band, n. Defn: A ribbon. Pope. RIBBAND Rib"*band`, n. Etym: [Rib + band.] Etym: [Written also riband, and ribbon.] (Shipbuilding) Defn: A long, narrow strip of timber bent and bolted longitudinally to the ribs of a vessel, to hold them in position, and give rigidity to the framework. Rib-band lines, oblique longitudinal sectionss of the hull of a vessel. Knight. RIBBED Ribbed, a. 1. Furnished or formed with ribs; as, a ribbed cylinder; ribbed cloth. 2. (Mining) Defn: Intercalated with slate; -- said of a seam of coal. Raymond. RIBBING Rib"bing, n. Defn: An assemblage or arrangement of ribs, as the timberwork for the support of an arch or coved ceiling, the veins in the leaves of some plants, ridges in the fabric of cloth, or the like. RIBBON Rib"bon, n. Etym: [OE. riban, OF. riban, F. ruban, probably of German origin; cf. D. ringband collar, necklace, E. ring circle, and band.] [Written also riband, ribband.] 1. A fillet or narrow woven fabric, commonly of silk, used for trimming some part of a woman's attire, for badges, and other decorative purposes. 2. A narrow strip or shred; as, a steel or magnesium ribbon; sails torn to ribbons. 3. (Shipbuilding) Defn: Same as Rib-band. 4. pl. Defn: Driving reins. [Cant] London Athenæum. 5. (Her.) Defn: A bearing similar to the bend, but only one eighth as wide. 6. (Spinning) Defn: A silver. Note: The blue ribbon, and The red ribbon, are phrases often used to designate the British orders of the Garter and of the Bath, respectively, the badges of which are suspended by ribbons of these colors. See Blue ribbon, under Blue. Ribbon fish. (Zoöl.) (a) Any elongated, compressed, ribbon-shaped marine fish of the family Trachypteridæ, especially the species of the genus Trachypterus, and the oarfish (Regelecus Banksii) of the North Atlantic, which is sometimes over twenty feet long. (b) The hairtail, or bladefish. (c) A small compressed marine fish of the genus Cepola, having a long, slender, tapering tail. The European species (C. rubescens) is light red throughout. Called also band fish. -- Ribbon grass (Bot.), a variety of reed canary grass having the leaves stripped with green and white; -- called also Lady's garters. See Reed grass, under Reed. -- Ribbon seal (Zoöl.), a North Pacific seal (Histriophoca fasciata). The adult male is dark brown, conspicuously banded and striped with yellowish white. -- Ribbon snake (Zoöl.), a common North American snake (Eutainia saurita). It is conspicuously striped with bright yellow and dark brown. -- Ribbon Society, a society in Ireland, founded in the early part of the 19th century in antagonism to the Orangemen. It afterwards became an organization of tennant farmers banded together to prevent eviction by landlords. It took its name from the green ribbon worn by members as a badge. -- Ribborn worm. (Zoöl.) (a) A tapeworm. (b) A nemertean. RIBBON Rib"bon, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Ribboned; p. pr. & vb. n. Ribboning.] Defn: To adorn with, or as with, ribbons; to mark with stripes resembling ribbons. RIBBONISM Rib"bon*ism, n. Defn: The principles and practices of the Ribbonmen. See Ribbon Society, under Ribbon. RIBBONMAN Rib"bon*man, n; pl. -men. Defn: A member of the Ribbon Society. See Ribbon Society, under Ribbon. RIBBONWOOD Rib"bon*wood`, n. (Bot.) Defn: A malvaceous tree (Hoheria populnea) of New Zealand, the bark of which is used for cordage. RIBES Ri"bes, n.Etym: [NL.; cf. Dan. ribs, and Ar. ribas a plant with an acid juice.] (Bot.) Defn: A genus of shrubs including gooseberries and currants of many kinds. RIBIBE Rib"ibe, n. Etym: [See Rebec.] 1. A sort of stringed instrument; a rebec. [Obs.] Nares. 2. An old woman; -- in contempt. [Obs.] Chaucer. 3. A bawd; a prostitute. [Obs.] B. Jonson. RIBIBLE Rib"i*ble, n. Etym: [See Ribibe.] Defn: A small threestringed viol; a rebec. Moore (Encyc. of Music). All can be play on gittern or ribible. Chaucer. RIBLESS Rib"less, a. Defn: Having no ribs. RIBROAST Rib"roast`, v. t. Defn: To beat soundly. [Slang] RIBWORT Rib"wort`, n. (Bot.) Defn: A species of plantain (Plantago lanceolata) with long, narrow, ribbed leaves; -- called also rib grass, ripple grass, ribwort plantain. -RIC -ric. Etym: [AS rice kingdom, dominion. See Rich.] Defn: A suffix signifying dominion, jurisdiction; as, bishopric, the district over which a bishop exercises authority. RICE Rice, n. Etym: [F. riz (cf. Pr. ris, It. riso), L. oryza, Gr. brizi, akin to Skr. vrihi; or perh. akin to E. rye. Cf. Rye.] (Bot.) Defn: A well-known cereal grass (Oryza sativa) and its seed. This plant is extensively cultivated in warm climates, and the grain forms a large portion of the food of the inhabitants. In America it grows chiefly on low, moist land, which can be overflowed. Ant rice. (Bot.) See under Ant. -- French rice. (Bot.) See Amelcorn. -- Indian rice., a tall reedlike water grass (Zizania aquatica), bearing panicles of a long, slender grain, much used for food by North American Indians. It is common in shallow water in the Northern States. Called also water oat, Canadian wild rice, etc. -- Mountain rice, any species of an American genus (Oryzopsis) of grasses, somewhat resembling rice. -- Rice bunting. (Zoöl.) Same as Ricebird. -- Rice hen (Zoöl.), the Florida gallinule. -- Rice mouse (Zoöl.), a large dark-colored field mouse (Calomys palistris) of the Southern United States. -- Rice paper, a kind of thin, delicate paper, brought from China, - - used for painting upon, and for the manufacture of fancy articles. It is made by cutting the pith of a large herb (Fatsia papyrifera, related to the ginseng) into one roll or sheet, which is flattened out under pressure. Called also pith paper. -- Rice troupial (Zoöl.), the bobolink. -- Rice water, a drink for invalids made by boiling a small quantity of rice in water. -- Rice-water discharge (Med.), a liquid, resembling rice water in appearance, which is vomited, and discharged from the bowels, in cholera. -- Rice weevil (Zoöl.), a small beetle (Calandra, or Sitophilus, oryzæ) which destroys rice, wheat, and Indian corn by eating out the interior; -- called also black weevil. RICEBIRD Rice"bird`, n. (Zoöl.) (a) The Java sparrow. (b) The bobolink. RICE-SHELL Rice"-shell`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: Any one of numerous species of small white polished marine shells of the genus Olivella. RICH Rich, (rîch), a. [Compar. Richer (; superl. Richest.] Etym: [OE. riche, AS. rice rich, powerful; akin to OS. riki, D. rijk, G. reich, OHG. rihhi, Icel. rikr, Sw. rik, Dan. rig, Goth. reiks; from a word meaning, ruler, king, probably borrowed from Celtic, and akin to L. rex, regis, king, regere to guide, rule. sq. root283. See Right, and cf. Derrick, Enrich, Rajah, Riches, Royal.] 1. Having an abundance of material possessions; possessed of a large amount of property; well supplied with land, goods, or money; wealthy; opulent; affluent; -- opposed to Ant: poor. "Rich merchants." Chaucer. The rich [person] hath many friends. Prov. xiv. 20. As a thief, bent to unhoard the cash Of some rich burgher. Milton. 2. Hence, in general, well supplied; abounding; abundant; copious; bountiful; as, a rich treasury; a rich entertainment; a rich crop. If life be short, it shall be glorious; Each minute shall be rich in some great action. Rowe. The gorgeous East with richest hand Showers on her kings barbaric pearl and gold. Milton. 3. Yielding large returns; productive or fertile; fruitful; as, rich soil or land; a rich mine. 4. Composed of valuable or costly materials or ingredients; procured at great outlay; highly valued; precious; sumptuous; costly; as, a rich dress; rich silk or fur; rich presents. Like to rich and various gems. Milton. 5. Abounding in agreeable or nutritive qualities; -- especially applied to articles of food or drink