[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

a momentary brightness or show. The flash and outbreak of a fiery mind. Shak. No striking sentiment, no flash of fancy. Wirt. 3. The time during which a flash is visible; an instant; a very brief period. The Persians and Macedonians had it for a flash. Bacon. 4. A preparation of capsicum, burnt sugar, etc., for coloring and giving a fictious strength to liquors. Flash light, or Flashing light, a kind of light shown by lighthouses, produced by the revolution of reflectors, so as to show a flash of light every few seconds, alternating with periods of dimness. Knight. -- Flash in the pan, the flashing of the priming in the pan of a flintlock musket without discharging the piece; hence, sudden, spasmodic effort that accomplishes nothing. FLASH Flash, a. 1. Showy, but counterfeit; cheap, pretentious, and vulgar; as, flash jewelry; flash finery. 2. Wearing showy, counterfeit ornaments; vulgarly pretentious; as, flash people; flash men or women; -- applied especially to thieves, gamblers, and prostitutes that dress in a showy way and wear much cheap jewelry. Flash house, a house frequented by flash people, as thieves and whores; hence, a brothel. "A gang of footpads, reveling with their favorite beauties at a flash house." Macaulay. FLASH Flash, n. Defn: Slang or cant of thieves and prostitutes. FLASH Flash, n. Etym: [OE. flasche, flaske; cf. OF. flache, F. flaque.] 1. A pool. [Prov. Eng.] Haliwell. 2. (Engineering) Defn: A reservoir and sluiceway beside a navigable stream, just above a shoal, so that the stream may pour in water as boats pass, and thus bear them over the shoal. Flash wheel (Mech.), a paddle wheel made to revolve in a breast or curved water way, by which water is lifted from the lower to the higher level. FLASHBOARD Flash"board`, n. Defn: A board placed temporarily upon a milldam, to raise the water in the pond above its usual level; a flushboard. [U.S.] FLASH BOILER Flash boiler. Defn: A variety of water-tube boiler, used chiefly in steam automobiles, consisting of a nest of strong tubes with very little water space, kept nearly red hot so that the water as it trickles drop by drop into the tubes is immediately flashed into steam and superheated. FLASH BURNER Flash burner. Defn: A gas burner with a device for lighting by an electric spark. FLASHER Flash"er, n. 1. One who, or that which, flashes. 2. A man of more appearance of wit than reality. 3. (Zoöl.) (a) A large sparoid fish of the Atlantic coast and all tropical seas (Lobotes Surinamensis). (b) The European red-backed shrile (Lanius collurio); -- called also flusher. FLASHILY Flash"i*ly, adv. Defn: In a flashy manner; with empty show. FLASHINESS Flash"i*ness, n. Defn: The quality of being flashy. FLASHING Flash"ing, n. 1. (Engineering) Defn: The creation of an artifical flood by the sudden letting in of a body of water; -- called also flushing. 2. (Arch.) Defn: Pieces of metal, built into the joints of a wall, so as to lap over the edge of the gutters or to cover the edge of the roofing; also, similar pieces used to cover the valleys of roofs of slate, shingles, or the like. By extension, the metal covering of ridges and hips of roofs; also, in the United States, the protecting of angles and breaks in walls of frame houses with waterproof material, tarred paper, or the like. Cf. Filleting. 3. (Glass Making) (a) The reheating of an article at the furnace aperture during manufacture to restore its plastic condition; esp., the reheating of a globe of crown glass to allow it to assume a flat shape as it is rotated. (b) A mode of covering transparent white glass with a film of colored glass. Knight. Flashing point (Chem.), that degree of temperature at which a volatile oil gives off vapor in sufficient quantity to burn, or flash, on the approach of a flame, used as a test of the comparative safety of oils, esp. kerosene; a flashing point of 100º F. is regarded as a fairly safe standard. The burning point of the oil is usually from ten to thirty degree above the flashing point of its vapor. FLASHY Flash"y, a. 1. Dazzling for a moment; making a momentary show of brilliancy; transitorily bright. A little flashy and transient pleasure. Barrow. 2. Fiery; vehement; impetuous. A temper always flashy. Burke. 3. Showy; gay; gaudy; as, a flashy dress. 4. Without taste or spirit. Lean and flashy songs. Milton. FLASK Flask, n. Etym: [AS. flasce, flaxe; akin to D. flesch, OHG. flasca, G. flasche, Icel. & Sw. flaska, Dan. flaske, OF. flasche, LL. flasca, flasco; of uncertain origin; cf. L. vasculum, dim. of vas a vessel, Gr. Flagon, Flasket.] 1. A small bottle-shaped vessel for holding fluids; as, a flask of oil or wine. 2. A narrow-necked vessel of metal or glass, used for various purposes; as of sheet metal, to carry gunpowder in; or of wrought iron, to contain quicksilver; or of glass, to heat water in, etc. 3. A bed in a gun carriage. [Obs.] Bailey. 4. (Founding) Defn: The wooden or iron frame which holds the sand, etc., forming the mold used in a foundry; it consists of two or more parts; viz., the cope or top; sometimes, the cheeks, or middle part; and the drag, or bottom part. When there are one or more cheeks, the flask is called a three part flask, four part flask, etc. Erlenmeyer flask, a thin glass flask, flat-bottomed and cone-shaped to allow of safely shaking its contents laterally without danger of spilling; -- so called from Erlenmeyer, a German chemist who invented it. -- Florence flask. Etym: [From Florence in Italy.] (a) Same as Betty, n., 3. (b) A glass flask, round or pear-shaped, with round or flat bottom, and usually very thin to allow of heating solutions. -- Pocket flask, a kind of pocket dram bottle, often covered with metal or leather to protect it from breaking. FLASKET Flask"et, n. Etym: [Cf. W. fflasged a vessel of straw or wickerwork, fflasg flask, basket, and E. flask.] 1. A long, shallow basket, with two handles. [Eng.] In which they gathered flowers to fill their flasket. Spenser. 2. A small flask. 3. A vessel in which viands are served. [Obs.] Pope. FLAT Flat, a. [Compar. Flatter; superl. Flattest.] Etym: [Akin to Icel. flatr, Sw. flat, Dan. flad, OHG. flaz, and AS. flet floor, G. flötz stratum, layer.] 1. Having an even and horizontal surface, or nearly so, without prominences or depressions; level without inclination; plane. Though sun and moon Were in the flat sea sunk. Milton. 2. Lying at full length, or spread out, upon the ground; level with the ground or earth; prostrate; as, to lie flat on the ground; hence, fallen; laid low; ruined; destroyed. What ruins kingdoms, and lays cities flat! Milton. I feel . . . my hopes all flat. Milton. 3. (Fine Arts) Defn: Wanting relief; destitute of variety; without points of prominence and striking interest. A large part of the work is, to me, very flat. Coleridge. 4. Tasteless; stale; vapid; insipid; dead; as, fruit or drink flat to the taste. 5. Unanimated; dull; uninteresting; without point or spirit; monotonous; as, a flat speech or composition. How weary, stale, flat, and unprofitable Seem to me all the uses of this world. Shak. 6. Lacking liveliness of commercial exchange and dealings; depressed; dull; as, the market is flat. 7. Clear; unmistakable; peremptory; absolute; positive; downright. Flat burglary as ever was committed. Shak. A great tobacco taker too, -- that's flat. Marston. 8. (Mus.) (a) Below the true pitch; hence, as applied to intervals, minor, or lower by a half step; as, a flat seventh; A flat. (b) Not sharp or shrill; not acute; as, a flat sound. 9. (Phonetics) Defn: Sonant; vocal; -- applied to any one of the sonant or vocal consonants, as distinguished from a nonsonant (or sharp) consonant. Flat arch. (Arch.) See under Arch, n., 2. (b). -- Flat cap, cap paper, not folded. See under Paper. -- Flat chasing, in fine art metal working, a mode of ornamenting silverware, etc., producing figures by dots and lines made with a punching tool. Knight. -- Flat chisel, a sculptor's chisel for smoothing. -- Flat file, a file wider than its thickness, and of rectangular section. See File. -- Flat nail, a small, sharp-pointed, wrought nail, with a flat, thin head, larger than a tack. Knight. -- Flat paper, paper which has not been folded. -- Flat rail, a railroad rail consisting of a simple flat bar spiked to a longitudinal sleeper. -- Flat rods (Mining), horizontal or inclined connecting rods, for transmitting motion to pump rods at a distance. Raymond. -- Flat rope, a rope made by plaiting instead of twisting; gasket; sennit. Note: Some flat hoisting ropes, as for mining shafts, are made by sewing together a number of ropes, making a wide, flat band. Knight. -- Flat space. (Geom.) See Euclidian space. -- Flat stitch, the