[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

purpose On what account [Obs.] What should I tell the answer of the knight. Chaucer. But what do I stand reckoning upon advantages and gains lost by the misrule and turbulency of the prelates What do I pick up so thriftily their scatterings and diminishings of the meaner subject Milton. WHATE'ER What*e'er", pron. Defn: A contraction of what-ever; -- used in poetry. "Whate'er is in his way." Shak. WHATEVER What*ev"er, pron. Defn: Anything soever which; the thing or things of any kind; being this or that; of one nature or another; one thing or another; anything that may be; all that; the whole that; all particulars that; -- used both substantively and adjectively. Whatever fortune stays from his word. Shak. Whatever Earth, all-bearing mother, yields. Milton. Whatever be its intrinsic value. J. H. Newman. Note: Whatever often follows a noun, being used elliptically. "There being no room for any physical discovery whatever" [sc. it may be]. Whately. WHATNOT What"not, n. Etym: [See the Note under What, pron., 5.] Defn: A kind of stand, or piece of furniture, having shelves for books, ornaments, etc.; an étagère. WHATSO What"so, indef. pron. Defn: Whatsoever; whosoever; whatever; anything that. [Obs.] Whatso he were, of high or low estate. Chaucer. Whatso the heaven in his wide vault contains. Spenser. WHATSOE'ER What`so*e'er", pron. Defn: A contraction of whatsoever; -- used in poetry. Shak. WHATSOEVER What`so*ev"er, pron. & a. Defn: Whatever. "In whatsoever shape he lurk." Milton. Whatsoever God hath said unto thee, do. Gen. xxxi. 16. Note: The word is sometimes divided by tmesis. "What things soever ye desire." Mark xi. 24. WHAUL Whaul, n. Defn: Same as Whall. WHAUP Whaup, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: See Whaap. [Prov. Eng.] WHEAL Wheal, n. Etym: [OE. whele, AS. hwele putrefaction, hwelian to putrefy.] Defn: A pustule; a whelk. Wiseman. WHEAL Wheal, n. Etym: [Cf. Wale.] 1. A more or less elongated mark raised by a stroke; also, a similar mark made by any cause; a weal; a wale. 2. Specifically (Med.), a flat, burning or itching eminence on the skin, such as is produced by a mosquito bite, or in urticaria. WHEAL Wheal, n. Etym: [Cornish hwel.] (Mining) Defn: A mine. WHEALWORM Wheal"worm`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: The harvest mite; -- so called from the wheals, caused by its bite. WHEAT Wheat, n. Etym: [OE. whete, AS. hwte; akin to OS. hwti, D. weit, G. weizen, OHG. weizzi, Icel. hveiti, Sw. hvete, Dan. hvede, Goth. hwaiteis, and E. while. See White.] (Bot.) Defn: A cereal grass (Triticum vulgare) and its grain, which furnishes a white flour for bread, and, next to rice, is the grain most largely used by the human race. Note: Of this grain the varieties are numerous, as red wheat, white wheat, bald wheat, bearded wheat, winter wheat, summer wheat, and the like. Wheat is not known to exist as a wild native plant, and all statements as to its origin are either incorrect or at best only guesses. Buck wheat. (Bot.) See Buckwheat. -- German wheat. (Bot.) See 2d Spelt. -- Guinea wheat (Bot.), a name for Indian corn. -- Indian wheat, or Tartary wheat (Bot.), a grain (Fagopyrum Tartaricum) much like buckwheat, but only half as large. -- Turkey wheat (Bot.), a name for Indian corn. -- Wheat aphid, or Wheat aphis (Zoöl.), any one of several species of Aphis and allied genera, which suck the sap of growing wheat. -- Wheat beetle. (Zoöl.) (a) A small, slender, rusty brown beetle (Sylvanus Surinamensis) whose larvæ feed upon wheat, rice, and other grains. (b) A very small, reddish brown, oval beetle (Anobium paniceum) whose larvæ eat the interior of grains of wheat. -- Wheat duck (Zoöl.), the American widgeon. [Western U. S.] -- Wheat fly. (Zoöl.) Same as Wheat midge, below. -- Wheat grass (Bot.), a kind of grass (Agropyrum caninum) somewhat resembling wheat. It grows in the northern parts of Europe and America. -- Wheat jointworm. (Zoöl.) See Jointworm. -- Wheat louse (Zoöl.), any wheat aphid. -- Wheat maggot (Zoöl.), the larva of a wheat midge. -- Wheat midge. (Zoöl.) (a) A small two-winged fly (Diplosis tritici) which is very destructive to growing wheat, both in Europe and America. The female lays her eggs in the flowers of wheat, and the larvæ suck the juice of the young kernels and when full grown change to pupæ in the earth. (b) The Hessian fly. See under Hessian. -- Wheat moth (Zoöl.), any moth whose larvæ devour the grains of wheat, chiefly after it is harvested; a grain moth. See Angoumois Moth, also Grain moth, under Grain. -- Wheat thief (Bot.), gromwell; -- so called because it is a troublesome weed in wheat fields. See Gromwell. -- Wheat thrips (Zoöl.), a small brown thrips (Thrips cerealium) which is very injurious to the grains of growing wheat. -- Wheat weevil. (Zoöl.) (a) The grain weevil. (b) The rice weevil when found in wheat. WHEATBIRD Wheat"bird`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: A bird that feeds on wheat, especially the chaffinch. WHEATEAR Wheat"ear`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: A small European singing bird (Saxicola oenanthe). The male is white beneath, bluish gray above, with black wings and a black stripe through each eye. The tail is black at the tip and in the middle, but white at the base and on each side. Called also checkbird, chickell, dykehopper, fallow chat, fallow finch, stonechat, and whitetail. WHEATEN Wheat"en, a. Etym: [AS. hwæten.] Defn: Made of wheat; as, wheaten bread. Cowper. WHEAT RUST Wheat rust. Defn: A disease of wheat and other grasses caused by the rust fungus Puccinia graminis; also, the fungus itself. WHEAT SAWFLY Wheat sawfly. (a) A small European sawfly (Cephus pygmæus) whose larva does great injury to wheat by boring in the stalks. (b) Any of several small American sawflies of the genus Dolerus, as D. sericeus and D. arvensis, whose larvæ injure the stems or heads of wheat. (c) Pachynematus extensicornis, whose larvæ feed chiefly on the blades of wheat; -- called also grass sawfly. WHEATSEL BIRD Wheat"sel bird`. (Zoöl.) Defn: The male of the chaffinch. [Prov. Eng.] WHEATSTONE'S BRIDGE Wheat"stone's bridge`. (Elec.) Defn: See under Bridge. WHEATSTONE'S RODS Wheat"stone's rods. (Acoustics) Defn: Flexible rods the period of vibration of which in two planes at right angles are in some exact ratio to one another. When one end of such a rod is fixed, the free end describes in vibrating the corresponding Lissajous figure. So called because devised by Sir Charles Wheatstone. WHEATWORM Wheat"worm`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: A small nematode worm (Anguillula tritici) which attacks the grains of wheat in the ear. It is found in wheat affected with smut, each of the diseased grains containing a large number of the minute young of the worm. WHEDER Whed"er pron. & conj. Defn: Whether. [Obs.] WHEEDLE Whee"dle, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Wheedled; p. pr. & vb. n. Wheedling.] Etym: [Cf. G. wedeln to wag with the tail, as a dog, wedel a fan, tail, brush, OHG. wadal; akin to G. wehen to blow, and E. wind, n.] 1. To entice by soft words; to cajole; to flatter; to coax. The unlucky art of wheedling fools. Dryden. And wheedle a world that loves him not. Tennyson. 2. To grain, or get away, by flattery. A deed of settlement of the best part of her estate, which I wheedled out of her. Congreve. WHEEDLE Whee"dle, v. i. Defn: To flatter; to coax; to cajole. WHEEL Wheel, n. Etym: [OE. wheel, hweol, AS. hweól, hweogul, hweowol; akin to D. wiel, Icel. hvel, Gr. cakra; cf. Icel. hjol, Dan. hiul, Sw. hjul. *218 Cf. Cycle, Cyclopedia.] 1. A circular frame turning about an axis; a rotating disk, whether solid, or a frame composed of an outer rim, spokes or radii, and a central hub or nave, in which is inserted the axle, -- used for supporting and conveying vehicles, in machinery, and for various purposes; as, the wheel of a wagon, of a locomotive, of a mill, of a watch, etc. The gasping charioteer beneath the wheel Of his own car. Dryden. 2. Any instrument having the form of, or chiefly consisting of, a wheel. Specifically: -- (a) A spinning wheel. See under Spinning. (b) An instrument of torture formerly used. His examination is like that which is made by the rack and wheel. Addison. Note: This mode of torture is said to have been first employed in Germany, in the fourteenth century. The criminal was laid on a cart wheel with his legs and arms extended, and his limbs in that posture were fractured with an iron bar. In France, where its use was restricted to the most atrocious crimes, the criminal was first laid on a frame of wood in the form of a St. Andrew's cross, with grooves cut transversely in it above and below the knees and elbows, and the executioner struck eight blows with an iron bar, so as to break the limbs in those places, sometimes finishing by two or three blows on the chest or stomach, which