[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

sentence, phrase, or word, forming part of an heraldic achievment. 2. A sentence, phrase, or word, prefixed to an essay, discourse, chapter, canto, or the like, suggestive of its subject matter; a short, suggestive expression of a guiding principle; a maxim. It was the motto of a bishop eminent for his piety and good works, ... "Serve God, and be cheerful." Addison. MOTTOED Mot"toed, a. Defn: Bearing or having a motto; as, a mottoed coat or device. MOTTY Mot"ty, a. Defn: Full of, or consisting of, motes. [Written also mottie.] [Scot.] The motty dust reek raised by the workmen. H. Miller. MOUCHOIR Mou`choir", n. Etym: [F.] Defn: A handkerchief. MOUEZZIN Mou*ez"zin, n. Etym: [F.] Defn: See Muezzin. MOUFLON Mouf"lon, n. Etym: [F. mouflon.] (Zoöl.) Defn: A wild sheep (Ovis musimon), inhabiting the mountains of Sardinia, Corsica, etc. Its horns are very large, with a triangular base and rounded angles. It is supposed by some to be the original of the domestic sheep. Called also musimon or musmon. [Written also moufflon.] MOUGHT Mought, obs.imp. Defn: of May. Might. MOUILLATION Mouil*la"tion, n. Etym: [See Mouillé.] (Phon.) Defn: The act of uttering the sound of a mouillé letter. MOUILLE Mouil`lé", a. Etym: [F., lit., wet.] (Phon.) Defn: Applied to certain consonants having a "liquid" or softened sound; e.g., in French, l or ll and gn (like the lli in million and ni in minion); in Italian, gl and gn; in Spanish, ll and ñ; in Portuguese, lh and nh. MOULD; MOULDER; MOULDY Mould, Mould"er, Mould"y, etc. Defn: See Mold, Molder, Moldy, etc. MOULE Moule, v. i. Etym: [OE. moulen. See Mold.] Defn: To contract mold; to grow moldy; to mold. [Obs.] Let us not moulen thus in idleness. Chaucer. MOULINE; MOULINET Mou*line", Mou"li*net, n. Etym: [F. moulinet, orig., a little mill, dim. of moulin mill. See Mill.] 1. The drum upon which the rope is wound in a capstan, crane, or the like. 2. A machine formerly used for bending a crossbow by winding it up. 3. In sword and saber exercises, a circular swing of the weawon. MOULT Moult, v. & n. Defn: See Molt. MOULTEN Moult"en, a. Defn: Having molted. [Obs.] "A moulten raven." Shak. MOUN Moun, v., Defn: pl. of Mow, may. [Obs.] Wyclif. MOUNCH Mounch, v. t. Defn: To munch. [Obs.] MOUND Mound, n. Etym: [F. monde the world, L. mundus. See Mundane.] Defn: A ball or globe forming part of the regalia of an emperor or other sovereign. It is encircled with bands, enriched with precious stones, and surmounted with a cross; -- called also globe. MOUND Mound, n. Etym: [OE. mound, mund, protection, AS. mund protection, hand; akin to OHG. munt, Icel. mund hand, and prob. to L. manus. See Manual.] Defn: An artificial hill or elevation of earth; a raised bank; an embarkment thrown up for defense; a bulwark; a rampart; also, a natural elevation appearing as if thrown up artificially; a regular and isolated hill, hillock, or knoll. To thrid the thickets or to leap the mounds. Dryden. Mound bird. (Zoöl.) Same as Mound maker (below). -- Mound builders (Ethnol.), the tribe, or tribes, of North American aborigines who built, in former times, extensive mounds of earth, esp. in the valleys of the Mississippi and Ohio Rivers. Formerly they were supposed to have preceded the Indians, but later investigations go to show that they were, in general, identical with the tribes that occupied the country when discovered by Europeans. -- Mound maker (Zoöl.), any one of the megapodes. -- Shell mound, a mound of refuse shells, collected by aborigines who subsisted largely on shellfish. See Midden, and Kitchen middens. MOUND Mound, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Mounded; p. pr. & vb. n. Mounding.] Defn: To fortify or inclose with a mound. MOUNT Mount, n. Etym: [OE. munt, mont, mount, AS. munt, fr. L. mons, montis; cf. L. minae protections, E. eminent, menace: cf. F. mont. Cf. Mount, v., Mountain, Mont, Monte, Montem.] 1. A mass of earth, or earth and rock, rising considerably above the common surface of the surrounding land; a mountain; a high hill; -- used always instead of mountain, when put before a proper name; as, Mount Washington; otherwise, chiefly in poetry. 2. A bulwark for offense or defense; a mound. [Obs.] Hew ye down trees, and cast a mount against Jerusalem. Jer. vi. 6. 3. Etym: [See Mont de piété.] Defn: A bank; a fund. Mount of piety. See Mont de piété. MOUNT Mount, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Mounted; p. pr. & vb. n. Mounting.] Etym: [OE. mounten, monten, F. monter, fr. L. mons, montis, mountain. See Mount, n. (above).] 1. To rise on high; to go up; to be upraised or uplifted; to tower aloft; to ascend; -- often with up. Though Babylon should mount up to heaven. Jer. li. 53. The fire of trees and houses mounts on high. Cowley. 2. To get up on anything, as a platform or scaffold; especially, to seat one's self on a horse for riding. 3. To attain in value; to amount. Bring then these blessings to a strict account, Make fair deductions, see to what they mount. Pope. MOUNT Mount, v. t. 1. To get upon; to ascend; to climb. Shall we mount again the rural throne Dryden. 2. To place one's self on, as a horse or other animal, or anything that one sits upon; to bestride. 3. To cause to mount; to put on horseback; to furnish with animals for riding; to furnish with horses. "To mount the Trojan troop." Dryden. 4. Hence: To put upon anything that sustains and fits for use, as a gun on a carriage, a map or picture on cloth or paper; to prepare for being worn or otherwise used, as a diamond by setting, or a sword blade by adding the hilt, scabbard, etc. 5. To raise aloft; to lift on high. What power is it which mounts my love so high Shak. Note: A fort or ship is said to mount cannon, when it has them arranged for use in or about it. To mount guard (Mil.), to go on guard; to march on guard; to do duty as a guard. -- To mount a play, to prepare and arrange the scenery, furniture, etc., used in the play. MOUNT Mount, n. Etym: [From Mount, v.] Defn: That upon which a person or thing is mounted, as: (a) A horse. She had so good a seat and hand, she might be trusted with any mount. G. Eliot. (b) The cardboard or cloth on which a drawing, photograph, or the like is mounted; a mounting. MOUNTABLE Mount"a*ble, a. Defn: Such as can be mounted. MOUNTAIN Moun"tain, n. Etym: [OE. mountaine, montaine, F. montagne, LL. montanea, montania, fr. L. mons, montis, a mountain; cf. montanus belonging to a mountain. See 1st Mount.] 1. A large mass of earth and rock, rising above the common level of the earth or adjacent land; earth and rock forming an isolated peak or a ridge; an eminence higher than a hill; a mount. 2. pl. Defn: A range, chain, or group of such elevations; as, the White Mountains. 3. A mountainlike mass; something of great bulk. I should have been a mountain of mummy. Shak. The Mountain (La montagne) (French Hist.), a popular name given in 1793 to a party of extreme Jacobins in the National Convention, who occupied the highest rows of seats. MOUNTAIN Moun"tain, a. 1. Of or pertaining to a mountain or mountains; growing or living on a mountain; found on or peculiar to mountains; among mountains; as, a mountain torrent; mountain pines; mountain goats; mountain air; mountain howitzer. 2. Like a mountain; mountainous; vast; very great. The high, the mountain majesty of worth. Byron. Mountain anthelope (Zoöl.), the goral. -- Mountain ash (Bot.), an ornamental tree, the Pyrus (Sorbus) Americana, producing beautiful bunches of red berries. Its leaves are pinnate, and its flowers white, growing in fragrant clusters. The European species is the P. aucuparia, or rowan tree. -- Mountain barometer, a portable barometer, adapted for safe transportation, used in measuring the heights of mountains. -- Mountain beaver (Zoöl.), the sewellel. -- Mountain blue (Min.), blue carbonate of copper; azurite. -- Mountain cat (Zoöl.), the catamount. See Catamount. -- Mountain chain, a series of contiguous mountain ranges, generally in parallel or consecutive lines or curves. -- Mountain cock (Zoöl.), capercailzie. See Capercailzie. -- Mountain cork (Min.), a variety of asbestus, resembling cork in its texture. -- Mountain crystal. See under Crystal. -- Mountain damson (Bot.), a large tree of the genus Simaruba (S. amarga) growing in the West Indies, which affords a bitter tonic and astringent, sometimes used in medicine. -- Mountain dew, Scotch whisky, so called because often illicitly distilled among the mountains. [Humorous] -- Mountain ebony (Bot.), a small leguminous tree (Bauhinia variegata) of the East and West Indies; -- so called because of its dark wood. The bark is used medicinally and in tanning. -- Mountain flax (Min.), a variety