[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

a firm manner. FIRMNESS Firm"ness, n. Defn: The state or quality of being firm. Syn. -- Firmness, Constancy. Firmness belongs to the will, and constancy to the affections and principles; the former prevents us from yielding, and the latter from fluctuating. Without firmness a man has no character; "without constancy," says Addison, "there is neither love, friendship, nor virtue in the world." FIRMS Firms, n. pl. Etym: [From Firm, a.] (Arch.) Defn: The principal rafters of a roof, especially a pair of rafters taken together. [Obs.] FIRRING Fir"ring, n. (Arch.) Defn: See Furring. FIRRY Fir"ry, a. Defn: Made of fir; abounding in firs. In firry woodlands making moan. Tennyson. FIRST First, a. Etym: [OE. first, furst, AS. fyrst; akin to Icel. fyrstr, Sw. & Dan. förste, OHG. furist, G. fürst prince; a superlatiye form of E. for, fore. See For, Fore, and cf. Formeer, Foremost.] 1. Preceding all others of a series or kind; the ordinal of one; earliest; as, the first day of a month; the first year of a reign. 2. Foremost; in front of, or in advance of, all others. 3. Most eminent or exalted; most excellent; chief; highest; as, Demosthenes was the first orator of Greece. At first blush. See under Blush. -- At first hand, from the first or original source; without the intervention of any agent. It is the intention of the person to reveal it at first hand, by way of mouth, to yourself. Dickens. -- First coat (Plastering), the solid foundation of coarse stuff, on which the rest is placed; it is thick, and crossed with lines, so as to give a bond for the next coat. -- First day, Sunday; -- so called by the Friends. -- First floor. (a) The ground floor. [U.S.] (b) The floor next above the ground floor. [Eng.] -- First fruit or fruits. (a) The fruits of the season earliest gathered. (b) (Feudal Law) One year's profits of lands belonging to the king on the death of a tenant who held directly from him. (c) (Eng. Eccl. Law) The first year's whole profits of a benefice or spiritual living. (d) The earliest effects or results. See, Father, what first fruits on earth are sprung From thy implanted grace in man! Milton. -- First mate, an officer in a merchant vessel next in rank to the captain. -- First name, same as Christian name. See under Name, n. -- First officer (Naut.), in the merchant service, same as First mate (above). -- First sergeant (Mil.), the ranking non-commissioned officer in a company; the orderly sergeant. Farrow. -- First watch (Naut.), the watch from eight to twelve at midnight; also, the men on duty during that time. -- First water, the highest quality or purest luster; -- said of gems, especially of diamond and pearls. Syn. -- Primary; primordial; primitive; primeval; pristine; highest; chief; principal; foremost. FIRST First, adv. Defn: Before any other person or thing in time, space, rank, etc.; -- much used in composition with adjectives and participles. Adam was first formed, then Eve. 1 Tim. ii. 13. At first, At the first, at the beginning or origin. -- First or last, at one time or another; at the beginning or end. And all are fools and lovers first or last. Dryden. FIRST First, n. (Mus.) Defn: The upper part of a duet, trio, etc., either vocal or instrumental; -- so called because it generally expresses the air, and has a preëminence in the combined effect. FIRSTBORN First"born`, a. Defn: First brought forth; first in the order of nativity; eldest; hence, most excellent; most distinguished or exalted. FIRST-CLASS First"-class`, a. Defn: Of the best class; of the highest rank; in the first division; of the best quality; first-rate; as, a first-class telescope. First- class car or First-class railway carriage, any passenger car of the highest regular class, and intended for passengers who pay the highest regular rate; -- distinguished from a second-class car. FIRST-HAND First"-hand`, a. Defn: Obtained directly from the first or original source; hence, without the intervention of an agent. One sphere there is . . . where the apprehension of him is first-hand and direct; and that is the sphere of our own mind. J. Martineau. FIRSTLING First"ling, n. Etym: [First + -ling.] 1. The first produce or offspring; -- said of animals, especially domestic animals; as, the firstlings of his flock. Milton. 2. The thing first thought or done. The very firstlings of my heart shall be The firstlings of my hand. Shak. FIRSTLING First"ling, a. Defn: Firstborn. All the firstling males. Deut. xv. 19. FIRSTLY First"ly, adv. Defn: In the first place; before anything else; -- sometimes improperly used for first. FIRST-RATE First"-rate`, a. Defn: Of the highest excellence; preëminent in quality, size, or estimation. Our only first-rate body of contemporary poetry is the German. M. Arnold. Hermocrates . . . a man of first-rate ability. Jowett (Thucyd). FIRST-RATE First"-rate`, n. (Naut.) Defn: A war vessel of the highest grade or the most powerful class. FIRTH Firth, n. Etym: [Scot. See Frith.] (geog.) Defn: An arm of the sea; a frith. FIR TREE Fir" tree` Defn: . See Fir. FISC Fisc, n. Etym: [F. fisc, fr. L. fiscus basket, money basket, treasury; prob. akin to fascis bundle. See Fasces.] Defn: A public or state treasury. Burke. FISCAL Fis"cal, a. Etym: [F. fiscal, L. fiscalis, fr. fiscus. See Fisc.] Defn: Pertaining to the public treasury or revenue. The fiscal arreangements of government. A. Hamilton. FISCAL Fis"cal, n. 1. The income of a prince or a state; revenue; exchequer. [Obs.] Bacon. 2. A treasurer. H. Swinburne. 3. A public officer in Scotland who prosecutes in petty criminal cases; -- called also procurator fiscal. 4. The solicitor in Spain and Portugal; the attorney-general. FISETIC Fi*set"ic, a. (Chem.) Defn: Pertaining to fustet or fisetin. FISETIN Fis"e*tin, n. Etym: [G. fisettholz a species of fustic.] (Chem.) Defn: A yellow crystalline substance extracted from fustet, and regarded as its essential coloring principle; -- called also fisetic acid. FISH Fish, n. Etym: [F. fiche peg, mark, fr. fisher to fix.] Defn: A counter, used in various games. FISH Fish, n.; pl. Fishes, or collectively, Fish. Etym: [OE. fisch, fisc, fis, AS. fisc; akin to D. visch, OS. & OHG. fisk, G. fisch, Icel. fiskr, Sw. & Dan. fisk, Goth. fisks, L. piscis, Ir. iasg. Cf. Piscatorial. In some cases, such as fish joint, fish plate, this word has prob. been confused with fish, fr. F. fichea peg.] 1. A name loosely applied in popular usage to many animals of diverse characteristics, living in the water. 2. (Zoöl.) Defn: An oviparous, vertebrate animal usually having fins and a covering scales or plates. It breathes by means of gills, and lives almost entirely in the water. See Pisces. Note: The true fishes include the Teleostei (bony fishes), Ganoidei, Dipnoi, and Elasmobranchii or Selachians (sharks and skates). Formerly the leptocardia and Marsipobranciata were also included, but these are now generally regarded as two distinct classes, below the fishes. 3. pl. Defn: The twelfth sign of the zodiac; Pisces. 4. The flesh of fish, used as food. 5. (Naut.) (a) A purchase used to fish the anchor. (b) A piece of timber, somewhat in the form of a fish, used to strengthen a mast or yard. Note: Fish is used adjectively or as part of a compound word; as, fish line, fish pole, fish spear, fish-bellied. Age of Fishes. See under Age, n., 8. -- Fish ball, fish (usually salted codfish) shared fine, mixed with mashed potato, and made into the form of a small, round cake. [U.S.] -- Fish bar. Same as Fish plate (below). -- Fish beam (Mech.), a beam one of whose sides (commonly the under one) swells out like the belly of a fish. Francis. -- Fish crow (Zoöl.), a species of crow (Corvus ossifragus), found on the Atlantic coast of the United States. It feeds largely on fish. -- Fish culture, the artifical breeding and rearing of fish; pisciculture. -- Fish davit. See Davit. -- Fish day, a day on which fish is eaten; a fast day. -- Fish duck (Zoöl.), any species of merganser. -- Fish fall, the tackle depending from the fish davit, used in hauling up the anchor to the gunwale of a ship. -- Fish garth, a dam or weir in a river for keeping fish or taking them easily. -- Fish glue. See Isinglass. -- Fish joint, a joint formed by a plate or pair of plates fastened upon two meeting beams, plates, etc., at their junction; -- used largely in connecting the rails of railroads. -- Fish kettle, a long kettle for boiling fish whole. -- Fish ladder, a dam with a series of steps which fish can leap in order to ascend falls in a river. -- Fish line, or Fishing line, a line made of twisted hair, silk, etc., used in angling. -- Fish louse (Zoöl.), any crustacean parasitic on fishes, esp. the parasitic Copepoda, belonging to Caligus, Argulus,