[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

red band fish, or fireflame. See Rend fish. REDROOT Red"root` (rd"rt`), n. (Bot.) Defn: A name of several plants having red roots, as the New Jersey tea (see under Tea), the gromwell, the bloodroot, and the Lachnanthes tinctoria, an endogenous plant found in sandy swamps from Rhode Island to Florida. REDSEAR Red`sear" (rd`sr"), v. i. Defn: To be brittle when red-hot; to be red-short. Moxon. REDSHANK Red"shank` (rd"shnk`), n. 1. (Zoöl.) (a) A common Old World limicoline bird (Totanus calidris), having the legs and feet pale red. The spotted redshank (T. fuscus) is larger, and has orange-red legs. Called also redshanks, redleg, and clee. (b) The fieldfare. 2. A bare-legged person; -- a contemptuous appellation formerly given to the Scotch Highlanders, in allusion to their bare legs. Spenser. RED-SHORT Red"-short` (-shrt`), a. (Metal.) Defn: Hot-short; brittle when red-hot; -- said of certain kinds of iron. -- Red"-short`ness, n. REDSKIN Red"skin` (-skn`), n. Defn: A common appellation for a North American Indian; -- so called from the color of the skin. Cooper. REDSTART Red"start` (-strt`), n. Etym: [Red + start tail.] (Zoöl.) (a) A small, handsome European singing bird (Ruticilla phoenicurus), allied to the nightingale; -- called also redtail, brantail, fireflirt, firetail. The black redstart is P.tithys. The name is also applied to several other species of Ruticilla amnd allied genera, native of India. (b) An American fly-catching warbler (Setophaga ruticilla). The male is black, with large patches of orange-red on the sides, wings, and tail. The female is olive, with yellow patches. REDSTREAK Red"streak` (-strk`), n. 1. A kind of apple having the skin streaked with red and yellow, -- a favorite English cider apple. Mortimer. 2. Cider pressed from redstreak apples. REDTAIL Red"tail` (-tl`), n. (Zoöl.) (a) The red-tailed hawk. (b) The European redstart. RED-TAILED Red"-tailed` (-tld`), a. Defn: Having a red tail. Red-tailed hawk (Zoöl.), a large North American hawk (Buteo borealis). When adult its tail is chestnut red. Called also hen hawck, and red-tailed buzzard. RED-TAPE Red"-tape` (-tp`), a. Defn: Pertaining to, or characterized by, official formality. See Red tape, under Red, a. RED-TAPISM Red`-tap"ism (rd`tp"z'm), n. Defn: Strict adherence to official formalities. J. C. Shairp. RED-TAPIST Red`-tap"ist, n. Defn: One who is tenacious of a strict adherence to official formalities. Ld. Lytton. REDTHROAT Red"throat` (rd"thrt`), n. (Zoöl.) Defn: A small Australian singing bird (Phyrrholæmus brunneus). The upper parts are brown, the center of the throat red. REDTOP Red"top` (-tp`), n. (Bot.) Defn: A kind of grass (Agrostis vulgaris) highly valued in the United States for pasturage and hay for cattle; -- called also English grass, and in some localities herd's grass. See Illustration in Appendix. The tall redtop is Triodia seslerioides. REDUB Re*dub" (r*db"), v. t. Etym: [F. radouber to refit or repair.] Defn: To refit; to repair, or make reparation for; hence, to repay or requite. [Obs.] It shall be good that you redub that negligence. Wyatt. God shall give power to redub it with some like requital to the French. Grafton. REDUCE Re*duce" (re*dus"), v. t. [imp. & p. p. Reduced (-dust"),; p. pr. & vb. n. Reducing (-du"sîng).] Etym: [L. reducere, reductum; pref. red- . re-, re- + ducere to lead. See Duke, and cf. Redoubt, n.] 1. To bring or lead back to any former place or condition. [Obs.] And to his brother's house reduced his wife. Chapman. The sheep must of necessity be scattered, unless the great Shephered of souls oppose, or some of his delegates reduce and direct us. Evelyn. 2. To bring to any inferior state, with respect to rank, size, quantity, quality, value, etc.; to diminish; to lower; to degrade; to impair; as, to reduce a sergeant to the ranks; to reduce a drawing; to reduce expenses; to reduce the intensity of heat. "An ancient but reduced family." Sir W. Scott. Nothing so excellent but a man may fasten upon something belonging to it, to reduce it. Tillotson. Having reduced Their foe to misery beneath their fears. Milton. Hester Prynne was shocked at the condition to which she found the clergyman reduced. Hawthorne. 3. To bring to terms; to humble; to conquer; to subdue; to capture; as, to reduce a province or a fort. 4. To bring to a certain state or condition by grinding, pounding, kneading, rubbing, etc.; as, to reduce a substance to powder, or to a pasty mass; to reduce fruit, wood, or paper rags, to pulp. It were but right And equal to reduce me to my dust. Milton. 5. To bring into a certain order, arrangement, classification, etc.; to bring under rules or within certain limits of descriptions and terms adapted to use in computation; as, to reduce animals or vegetables to a class or classes; to reduce a series of observations in astronomy; to reduce language to rules. 6. (Arith.) (a) To change, as numbers, from one denomination into another without altering their value, or from one denomination into others of the same value; as, to reduce pounds, shillings, and pence to pence, or to reduce pence to pounds; to reduce days and hours to minutes, or minutes to days and hours. (b) To change the form of a quantity or expression without altering its value; as, to reduce fractions to their lowest terms, to a common denominator, etc. 7. (Chem.) Defn: To bring to the metallic state by separating from impurities; hence, in general, to remove oxygen from; to deoxidize; to combine with, or to subject to the action of, hydrogen; as, ferric iron is reduced to ferrous iron; or metals are reduced from their ores; -- opposed to Ant: oxidize. 8. (Med.) Defn: To restore to its proper place or condition, as a displaced organ or part; as, to reduce a dislocation, a fracture, or a hernia. Reduced iron (Chem.), metallic iron obtained through deoxidation of an oxide of iron by exposure to a current of hydrogen or other reducing agent. When hydrogen is used the product is called also iron by hydrogen. -- To reduce an equation (Alg.), to bring the unknown quantity by itself on one side, and all the known quantities on the other side, without destroying the equation. -- To reduce an expression (Alg.), to obtain an equivalent expression of simpler form. -- To reduce a square (Mil.), to reform the line or column from the square. Syn. -- To diminish; lessen; decrease; abate; shorten; curtail; impair; lower; subject; subdue; subjugate; conquer. REDUCEMENT Re*duce"ment (r*ds"ment), n. Defn: Reduction. Milton. REDUCENT Re*du"cent (r*d"sent), a. Etym: [L. reducens, p. pr. of reducere.] Defn: Tending to reduce. -- n. Defn: A reducent agent. REDUCER Re*du"cer (-sr), n. Defn: One who, or that which, reduces. REDUCIBLE Re*du"ci*ble (-s*b'll), a. Defn: Capable of being reduced. REDUCIBLENESS Re*du"ci*ble*ness, n. Defn: Quality of being reducible. REDUCING Re*du"cing (r*d"sng), Defn: a & n. from Reduce. Reducing furnace (Metal.), a furnace for reducing ores. -- Reducing pipe fitting, a pipe fitting, as a coupling, an elbow, a tee, etc., for connecting a large pipe with a smaller one. -- Reducing valve, a device for automatically maintaining a diminished pressure of steam, air, gas, etc., in a pipe, or other receiver, which is fed from a boiler or pipe in which the pressure is higher than is desired in the receiver. REDUCT Re*duct" (r*dkt"), v. t.. Etym: [L.reductus, p. p. of reducere. See Reduce.] Defn: To reduce. [Obs.] W. Warde. REDUCTIBILITY Re*duc`ti*bil"i*ty (r*dk`t*bl"*t), n. Defn: The quality of being reducible; reducibleness. REDUCTION Re*duc"tion (r*dk"shn), n. Etym: [F. réduction, L. reductio. See Reduce.] 1. The act of reducing, or state of being reduced; conversion to a given state or condition; diminution; conquest; as, the reduction of a body to powder; the reduction of things to order; the reduction of the expenses of government; the reduction of a rebellious province. 2. (Arith. & Alq.) Defn: The act or process of reducing. See Reduce, v. t., 6. and To reduce an equation, To reduce an expression, under Reduce, v. t. 3. (Astron.) (a) The correction of observations for known errors of instruments, etc. (b) The preparation of the facts and measurements of observations in order to deduce a general result. 4. The process of making a copy of something, as a figure, design, or draught, on a smaller scale, preserving the proper proportions. Fairholt. 5. (Logic) Defn: The bringing of a syllogism in one of the so-called imperfect modes into a mode in the first figure. 6. (Chem. & Metal.) Defn: The act, process, or result of reducing; as, the reduction of iron from its ores; the reduction of aldehyde from alcohol. 7. (Med.) Defn: The operation of restoring a dislocated or fractured part to its former place. Reduction ascending (Arith.), the operation of changing numbers of a lower into others of a higher denomination, as cents to dollars. -- Reduction descending (Arith.), the operation of changing numbers of a higher into others of a lower denomination, as dollars to cents. Syn. -- Diminution; decrease; abatement; curtailment; subjugation; conquest; subjection. REDUCTIVE Re*duc"tive (-tv), a. Etym: [Cf. F. réductif.] Defn: