[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #55148]

departure of Beril had taken from him one of his interests in life. He had come to look upon his daily fight with Beril as an accompaniment to the digestion of his daily bread. The two old fellows had grown almost like man and wife, as far as nagging goes; they had hurled boots at each other, squabbled perpetually, vilified each other, and once had come to blows. Now that the separation had occurred, the great blank caused by it appeared in Joubert's face. Joubert had many good qualities; among others, he was a born and perfect swordsman. When quite young, and stationed in Paris, he had put in a good deal of his spare time at Carduso's School of Arms, then situated near the Chinese Baths. He made a little money this way, instructing young bloods in the art of self-defence; and he had learnt many tricks from Carduso, that magician of whom it has been said that he was born with a rapier in his hand. I owed a good deal of my own proficiency with the sword to Joubert, who, even when I was a child, had shown me the difference of carte and tierce with my little cane. To-day an idea struck me. "Joubert," said I. "Monsieur!" replied Joubert. "Attention." "Ah, oui, attention," grumbled Joubert, going on with his business, which happened to be the brushing of a coat. "I'm attending to the moths that have got in your overcoat." "Leave them alone, and see here." I took a pair of foils from the wall, and presented one of them by the hilt. "Catch hold. I want a lesson." "There you go, there you go!" said Joubert, putting the foil under his arm, and finishing the coat. "Always when I am busy, and monsieur's clothes----" "Never mind monsieur's clothes," I replied. "I want a lesson. See here: do you remember telling me a trick of Carduso's----" "A hundred. Which one?" "A trick of pinking a man in a certain place in the arm, where the big nerve runs, so that his arm is paralysed, and he can't go on fighting." "Mais oui," said the old fellow, bending the rapier with the button on the tip of his boot. "Well, show me it." "Aha!" said Joubert, his eyes lighting up, "la monsieur going to fight?" "Yes; it has come to that, Joubert. It seems that a man cannot live quietly in this Paris of yours without fighting for his life like some beast in an African forest. But I don't want to kill my man--only to put him out of action." "And why not kill him?" asked Joubert. "Mordieu, what is the use of fighting, else? Why take a sword in your hand if you only want to pay him compliments?" "Never mind. I don't want to kill him." "And who is the gentleman whom you desire to scratch?" "I will tell you that the morning of the affair, the 5th of July. We meet in the Bois de Boulogne. I will let you drive me, and you will see the business." "Good!" said Joubert. "If one cannot watch lions fighting, let us then watch cats. Attention!" Joubert was a bit over seventy, but he had the dexterity and almost the quickness of a young man. The spot to be reached is just over the bone half way down the arm. A nerve--I think they call it the musculo spiral--winds round the bone here. If you can pierce it, you entirely demoralise your opponent. Just as a bullet-wound in the hand reduces a strong man into the condition of a hysterical woman, so does a touch here. The button of Joubert's foil sent a tingle down my arm, proclaiming that the spot had been reached. Then I returned the compliment. We practised for half an hour, and again on the next day. And day followed day, till the 4th of July broke over Paris, cloudless and perfect. I was up early, and at ten o'clock I called upon De Brissac at his rooms, the Rue Helder. "Ah!" said he, "I'm glad to see you." "How so?" replied I, for his manner indicated something more than an ordinary greeting. "Well, as a matter of fact," replied he, "I heard last night--in fact, it was generally spoken of on the Boulevards--that you had arranged the matter amicably with the Baron von Lichtenberg." "That I had arranged the matter?" "People say you have apologised to him." "I apologise? Why, my dear sir, it was he who insulted me! He struck me on the shoulder with his glove. How, then, could I apologise?" "Not for that, but for the occurrence at the Mirlitons. So it is a canard?" "The wildest." "Ah, I thought so. And I think I know who set it flying--De Coigny." "I would not be surprised; he is an old enemy of mine." "I am certain of it," said De Brissac, "For M. de Champfleury, who is acting with me also as your second, told me that the report came to a friend of his from the mouth of M. de Coigny." "De Brissac," I said, "bring with you another friend--someone not indisposed to De Coigny--to-morrow." "Why?" "M. de Coigny----" Then I stopped, for the determination I had come to was of such a nature that I thought it best to leave the declaration of it till we were on the ground. "Why?" asked again De Brissac. "Oh, just as a spectator. It will be worth his while, for, if I mistake not, there will be something worth seeing to-morrow morning at seven o'clock in the Avenue of the Minimes, just by the pond, for that is, I believe, our place of meeting." De Brissac bowed. "I will bring a friend," said he. Little did I think of the surprising thing that friend would see; and little did De Brissac dream that the duel in which he was to take part would be noticeable above all other duels in the history of duelling even unto this day. "Till to-morrow, at seven, then," said I. "Till to-morrow," replied De Brissac. Then I took my departure. The Vicomte, before starting on his visit to Auvergne, had cleared his money and his property out of Paris as far as possible, but he had left the hotel in the Place Vendôme "all standing," as the sailors say. To have removed his furniture, his horses, and his equipages would have been to declare his hand; and if by any chance the storm had not burst and France had emerged from her difficulties, the man who had taken shelter, or, in plainer words, taken flight, would have found a very curious welcome on his return to the beloved Boulevards. He had foresees everything, even the chance of success, and he had prepared for everything, always with his mind's eye on failure. So I had a stable full of horses at my disposal, and a house full of servants; all the bills were paid; there was unlimited credit, and I had ten thousand francs in my pocketbook, which he had left with me in case of eventualities. I returned from De Brissac's to the Place Vendôme, ordered out a britzka and a pair of swift horses, and told the coachman to take me to Etiolles. I wished to shake hands with Franzius and kiss Eloise again. I had also determined to tell them of what was to happen on the morrow. We passed through Bercy, and retook the same road I had taken that morning in May when I had gone down to make arrangements for Eloise's reception at the Pavilion. It was the same road, but dressed now in the glory of summer. Heavens! when I think of that road, so peaceful, the houses wearing such a contented look, the flowers in the garden, the little children playing on the doorsteps; that road so soon to resound to the tramp of the German hordes, and the drums of war, the rolling of artillery and baggage-wagons--when I think of that scene of peace and what followed! And now it is all so far away, so many summers have re-dressed that road again; and what of it all remains? Only an old story with which Father Maboeuf bores the drinkers at the Grape Inn, of Champrosay; a tale which old men in Germany tell the grandchildren; a song or two. Scarcely that. When I reached the Pavilion, Franzius and Eloise were not there. Madame Ancelot said they had taken money and food with them, and "gone off." They often did this, sometimes for a couple of days: the gipsy that was in Franzius' feet required a change. This strange pair, who were now more than ever like lovers, would "go off," spend days in the open, and stop at village inns at night. Franzius had infected his companion with the love of freedom. He was now famous. Another man in his position would have been at