[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

land; moor; marsh. 'Mid reedy fens wide spread. Wordsworth. Note: Fen is used adjectively with the sense of belonging to, or of the nature of, a fen or fens. Fen boat, a boat of light draught used in marshes. -- Fen duck (Zoöl.), a wild duck inhabiting fens; the shoveler. [Prov. Eng.] -- Fen fowl (Zoöl.), any water fowl that frequent fens. -- Fen goose (Zoöl.), the graylag goose of Europe. [Prov. Eng.] -- Fen land, swamp land. FENCE Fence, n. Etym: [Abbrev. from defence.] 1. That which fends off attack or danger; a defense; a protection; a cover; security; shield. Let us be backed with God and with the seas, Which he hath given for fence impregnable. Shak. A fence betwixt us and the victor's wrath. Addison. 2. An inclosure about a field or other space, or about any object; especially, an inclosing structure of wood, iron, or other material, intended to prevent intrusion from without or straying from within. Leaps o'er the fence with ease into the fold. Milton. Note: In England a hedge, ditch, or wall, as well as a structure of boards, palings, or rails, is called a fence. 3. (Locks) Defn: A projection on the bolt, which passes through the tumbler gates in locking and unlocking. 4. Self-defense by the use of the sword; the art and practice of fencing and sword play; hence, skill in debate and repartee. See Fencing. Enjoy your dear wit, and gay rhetoric, That hath so well been taught her dazzing fence. Milton. Of dauntless courage and consummate skill in fence. Macaulay. 5. A receiver of stolen goods, or a place where they are received. [Slang] Mayhew. FENCE Fence, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Fenced ( Fencing.] 1. To fend off danger from; to give security to; to protect; to guard. To fence my ear against thy sorceries. Milton. 2. To inclose with a fence or other protection; to secure by an inclosure. O thou wall! . . . dive in the earth, And fence not Athens. Shak. A sheepcote fenced about with olive trees. Shak. To fence the tables (Scot. Church), to make a solemn address to those who present themselves to commune at the Lord's supper, on the feelings appropriate to the service, in order to hinder, so far as possible, those who are unworthy from approaching the table. McCheyne. FENCE Fence, v. i. 1. To make a defense; to guard one's self of anything, as against an attack; to give protection or security, as by a fence. Vice is the more stubborn as well as the more dangerous evil, and therefore, in the first place, to be fenced against. Locke. 2. To practice the art of attack and defense with the sword or with the foil, esp. with the smallsword, using the point only. He will fence with his own shadow. Shak. 3. Hence, to fight or dispute in the manner of fencers, that is, by thrusting, guarding, parrying, etc. They fence and push, and, pushing, loudly roar; Their dewlaps and their sides are batDryden. As when a billow, blown against, Falls back, the voice with which I fenced A little ceased, but recommenced. Tennyson. FENCEFUL Fence"ful, a. Defn: Affording defense; defensive. [Obs.] Congreve. FENCELESS Fence"less, a. Defn: Without a fence; uninclosed; open; unguarded; defenseless. Milton. FENCE MONTH Fence month (Forest Law), Defn: the month in which female deer are fawning, when hunting is prohibited. Bullokar. -- Fence roof, a covering for defense. "They fitted their shields close to one another in manner of a fence roof." Holland. Fence time, the breeding time of fish or game, when they should not be killed. -- Rail fence, a fence made of rails, sometimes supported by posts. -- Ring fence, a fence which encircles a large area, or a whole estate, within one inclosure. -- Worm fence, a zigzag fence composed of rails crossing one another at their ends; -- called also snake fence, or Virginia rail fence. -- To be on the fence, to be undecided or uncommitted in respect to two opposing parties or policies. [Colloq.] FENCER Fen"cer, n. Defn: One who fences; one who teaches or practices the art of fencing with sword or foil. As blunt as the fencer's foils. Shak. FENCI-BLE Fen"ci-ble, a. Defn: Capable of being defended, or of making or affording defense. [Obs.] No fort so fencible, nor walls so strong. Spenser. FENCIBLE Fen"ci*ble, n. (Mil.) Defn: A soldier enlisted for home service only; -- usually in the pl. FENCING Fen"cing, n. 1. The art or practice of attack and defense with the sword, esp. with the s,allword. See Fence, v. i., 2. 2. Disputing or debating in a manner resembling the art of fencers. Shak. 3. The materials used for building fences. [U.S.] 4. The act of building a fence. 5. To aggregate of the fences put up for inclosure or protection; as, the fencing of a farm. FEN CRICKET Fen" crick`et. (Zoöl.) Defn: The mole cricket. [Prov. Eng.] FEND Fend, n. Defn: A fiend. [Obs.] Chaucer. FEND Fend, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Fended; p. pr. & vb. n. Fending.] Etym: [Abbrev. fr. defend.] Defn: To keep off; to prevent from entering or hitting; to ward off; to shut out; -- often with off; as, to fend off blows. With fern beneath to fend the bitter cold. Dryden. To fend off a boat or vessel (Naut.), to prevent its running against anything with too much violence. FEND Fend, v. i. Defn: To act on the defensive, or in opposition; to resist; to parry; to shift off. The dexterous management of terms, and being able to fend . . . with them, passes for a great part of learning. Locke. FENDER Fen"der, n. Etym: [From Fend, v. t. & i., cf. Defender.] Defn: One who or that which defends or protects by warding off harm; as: (a) A screen to prevent coals or sparks of an open fire from escaping to the floor. (b) Anything serving as a cushion to lessen the shock when a vessel comes in contact with another vessel or a wharf. (c) A screen to protect a carriage from mud thrown off the wheels: also, a splashboard. (d) Anything set up to protect an exposed angle, as of a house, from damage by carriage wheels. FENDLICHE Fend"liche, a. Defn: Fiendlike. [Obs.] Chaucer. FENERATE Fen"er*ate, v. i. Etym: [L. faeneratus, p.p. of faenerari lend on interest, fr. faenus interest.] Defn: To put money to usury; to lend on interest. [Obs.] Cockeram. FENERATION Fen`er*a"tion, n. Etym: [L. faeneratio.] Defn: The act of fenerating; interest. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. FENES-TELLA Fen`es-tel"la, n. Etym: [L., dim. of fenestra (Arch.) Defn: Any small windowlike opening or recess, esp. one to show the relics within an altar, or the like. FENESTRA Fe*nes"tra, n.; pl. Fenestræ. Etym: [L., a window.] (Anat.) Defn: A small opening; esp., one of the apertures, closed by membranes, between the tympanum and internal ear. FENESTRAL Fe*nes"tral, a. Etym: [L. fenestra a window.] 1. (Arch.) Defn: Pertaining to a window or to windows. 2. (Anat.) Defn: Of or pertaining to a fenestra. FENESTRAL Fe*nes"tral, n. (Arch.) Defn: A casement or window sash, closed with cloth or paper instead of glass. Weale. FENESTRATE Fe*nes"trate, a. Etym: [L. fenestratus, p.p. of fenestrare to furnish with openings and windows.] 1. Having numerous openings; irregularly reticulated; as, fenestrate membranes; fenestrate fronds. 2. (Zoöl.) Defn: Having transparent spots, as the wings of certain butterflies. FENESTRATED Fe*nes"tra*ted, a. 1. (Arch.) Defn: Having windows; characterized by windows. 2. Same as Fenestrate. FENESTRATION Fen`es*tra"tion, n. 1. (Arch.) Defn: The arrangement and proportioning of windows; -- used by modern writers for the decorating of an architectural composition by means of the window (and door) openings, their ornaments, and proportions. 2. (Anat.) Defn: The state or condition of being fenestrated. FENESTRULE Fe*nes"trule, n. Etym: [L. fenestrula a little window, dim. of fenestra a window.] (Zoöl.) Defn: One of the openings in a fenestrated structure. FENG-HWANG Fêng"-hwang`, n. [Chin. feng + 'huang.] (Chinese Myth.) Defn: A pheasantlike bird of rich plumage and graceful form and movement, fabled to appear in the land on the accession of a sage to the throne, or when right principles are about to prevail. It is often represented on porcelains and other works of art. FENGITE Fen"gite, n. (Min.) Defn: A kind of marble or alabaster, sometimes used for windows on account of its transparency. FENG-SHUI Fêng"-shu`i, n. [Chin. feng wind + shiu water.] Defn: A system of spirit influences for good and evil believed by the Chinese to attend the natural features of landscape; also, a kind of geomancy dealing with these influences, used in determining sites for graves, houses, etc. FENIAN Fe"ni*an, n. Etym: [From the Finians or Fenii, the old militia of Ireland, who were so called from Fin or Finn, Fionn, or Fingal, a popular hero of Irish traditional history.] Defn: A member of a secret organization, consisting mainly of Irishment, having for its aim the overthrow of English rule