[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

as, the Mechanics' fair; an agricultural fair. After the fair, Too late. [Colloq.] FAIR CATCH Fair catch. (Football) Defn: A catch made by a player on side who makes a prescribed signal that he will not attempt to advance the ball when caught. He must not then be interfered with. FAIR-HAIRED Fair"-haired`, a. Defn: Having fair or light-colored hair. FAIRHOOD Fair"hood, n. Defn: Fairness; beauty. [Obs.] Foxe. FAIRILY Fair"i*ly, adv. Defn: In the manner of a fairy. Numerous as shadows haunting fairily The brain. Keats. FAIRING Fair"ing, n. Defn: A present; originally, one given or purchased at a fair. Gay. Fairing box, a box receiving savings or small sums of money. Hannah More. FAIRISH Fair"ish, a. Defn: Tolerably fair. [Colloq.] W. D. Howells. FAIR-LEADER Fair"-lead`er, n. (Naut.) Defn: A block, or ring, serving as a guide for the running rigging or for any rope. FAIRLY Fair"ly, adv. 1. In a fairmanner; clearly; openly; plainly; fully; distinctly; frankly. Even the nature of Mr. Dimmesdale's disease had never fairly been revealed to him. Hawthorne. 2. Favorably; auspiciously; commodiously; as, a town fairly situated for foreign traade. 3. Honestly; properly. Such means of comfort or even luxury, as lay fairly within their grasp. Hawthorne. 4. Softly; quietly; gently. [Obs.] Milton. FAIR-MINDED Fair"-mind`ed, a. Defn: Unprejudiced; just; judicial; honest. -- Fair"*mind`ed*ness, n. FAIR-NATURED Fair"-na`tured, a. Defn: Well-disposed. "A fair-natured prince." Ford. FAIRNESS Fair"ness, n. Defn: The state of being fair, or free form spots or stains, as of the skin; honesty, as of dealing; candor, as of an argument, etc. FAIR-SPOKEN Fair"-spo`ken, a. Defn: Using fair speech, or uttered with fairness; bland; civil; courteous; plausible. "A marvelous fair-spoken man." Hooker. FAIRWAY Fair"way`, n. Defn: The navigable part of a river, bay, etc., through which vessels enter or depart; the part of a harbor or channel ehich is kept open and unobstructed for the passage of vessels. Totten. the rough. FAIR-WEATHER Fair"-weath`er, a. 1. Made or done in pleasant weather, or in circumstances involving but little exposure or sacrifice; as, a fair-weather voyage. Pope. 2. Appearing only when times or circumstances are prosperous; as, a fair-weather friend. Fair-weather sailor, a make-believe or inexperienced sailor; -- the nautical equivalent of carpet knight. FAIR-WORLD Fair"-world` n. Defn: State of prosperity. [Obs.] They think it was never fair-world with them since. Milton. FAIRY Fair"y, n.; pl. Fairies. Etym: [OE. fairie, faierie, enchantment, fairy folk, fairy, OF. faerie enchantment, F. féer, fr. LL. Fata one of the goddesses of fate. See Fate, and cf. Fay a fairy.] [Written also faëry.] 1. Enchantment; illusion. [Obs.] Chaucer. The God of her has made an end, And fro this worlde's fairy Hath taken her into company. Gower. 2. The country of the fays; land of illusions. [Obs.] He [Arthur] is a king y-crowned in Fairy. Lydgate. 3. An imaginary supernatural being or spirit, supposed to assume a human form (usually diminutive), either male or female, and to meddle for good or evil in the affairs of mankind; a fay. See Elf, and Demon. The fourth kind of spirit [is] called the Fairy. K. James. And now about the caldron sing, Like elves and fairies in a ring. Shak. 5. An enchantress. [Obs.] Shak. Fairy of the mine, an imaginary being supposed to inhabit mines, etc. German folklore tells of two species; one fierce and malevolent, the other gentle, See Kobold. No goblin or swart fairy of the mine Hath hurtful power over true virginity. Milton. FAIRY Fair"y, a. 1. Of or pertaining to fairies. 2. Given by fairies; as, fairy money. Dryden. Fairy bird (Zoöl.), the Euoropean little tern (Sterna minuta); -- called also sea swallow, and hooded tern. -- Fairy bluebird. (Zoöl.) See under Bluebird. -- Fairy martin (Zoöl.), a European swallow (Hirrundo ariel) that builds flask-shaped nests of mud on overhanging cliffs. -- Fairy rings or circles, the circles formed in grassy lawns by certain fungi (as Marasmius Oreades), formerly supposed to be caused by fairies in their midnight dances. -- Fairy shrimp (Zoöl.), a European fresh-water phyllopod crustacean (Chirocephalus diaphanus); -- so called from its delicate colors, transparency, and graceful motions. The name is sometimes applied to similar American species. -- Fairy stone (Paleon.), an echinite. FAIRYLAND Fair"y*land` n. Defn: The imaginary land or abode of fairies. FAIRYLIKE Fair"y*like`, a. Defn: Resembling a fairy, or what is made or done be fairies; as, fairylike music. FAITH Faith, n. Etym: [OE. feith, fayth, fay, OF. feid, feit, fei, F. foi, fr. L. fides; akin to fidere to trust, Gr. th is perhaps due to the influence of such words as truth, health, wealth. See Bid, Bide, and cf. Confide, Defy, Fealty.] 1. Belief; the assent of the mind to the truth of what is declared by another, resting solely and implicitly on his authority and veracity; reliance on testimony. 2. The assent of the mind to the statement or proposition of another, on the ground of the manifest truth of what he utters; firm and earnest belief, on probable evidence of any kind, especially in regard to important moral truth. Faith, that is, fidelity, -- the fealty of the finite will and understanding to the reason. Coleridge. 3. (Theol.) (a) The belief in the historic truthfulness of the Scripture narrative, and the supernatural origin of its teachings, sometimes called historical and speculative faith. (b) The belief in the facts and truth of the Scriptures, with a practical love of them; especially, that confiding and affectionate belief in the person and work of Christ, which affects the character and life, and makes a man a true Christian, -- called a practical, evangelical, or saving faith. Without faith it is impossible to please him [God]. Heb. xi. 6. The faith of the gospel is that emotion of the mind which is called "trust" or "confidence" exercised toward the moral character of God, and particularly of the Savior. Dr. T. Dwight. Faith is an affectionate, practical confidence in the testimony of God. J. Hawes. 4. That which is believed on any subject, whether in science, politics, or religion; especially (Theol.), a system of religious belief of any kind; as, the Jewish or Mohammedan faith; and especially, the system of truth taught by Christ; as, the Christian faith; also, the creed or belief of a Christian society or church. Which to believe of her, Must be a faith that reason without miracle Could never plant in me. Shak. Now preacheth the faith which once he destroyed. Gal. i. 23. 5. Fidelity to one's promises, or allegiance to duty, or to a person honored and beloved; loyalty. Children in whom is no faith. Deut. xxvii. 20. Whose failing, while her faith to me remains, I should conceal. Milton. 6. Word or honor pledged; promise given; fidelity; as, he violated his faith. For you alone I broke me faith with injured Palamon. Dryden. 7. Credibility or truth. [R.] The faith of the foregoing narrative. Mitford. Act of faith. See Auto-da-fé. -- Breach of faith, Confession of faith, etc. See under Breach, Confession, etc. -- Faith cure, a method or practice of treating diseases by prayer and the exercise of faith in God. -- In good faith, with perfect sincerity. FAITH Faith, interj. Defn: By my faith; in truth; verily. FAITHED Faithed, a. Defn: Having faith or a faith; honest; sincere. [Obs.] "Make thy words faithed." Shak. FAITHFUL Faith"ful, a. 1. Full of faith, or having faith; disposed to believe, especially in the declarations and promises of God. You are not faithful, sir. B. Jonson. 2. Firm in adherence to promises, oaths, contracts, treaties, or other engagements. The faithful God, which keepeth covenant and mercy with them that love him. Deut. vii. 9. 3. True and constant in affection or allegiance to a person to whom one is bound by a vow, be ties of love, gratitude, or honor, as to a husband, a prince, a friend; firm in the observance of duty; loyal; of true fidelity; as, a faithful husband or servant. So spake the seraph Abdiel, faithful found, Among the faithless, faithful only he. Milton. 4. Worthy of confidence and belief; conformable to truth ot fact; exact; accurate; as, a faithful narrative or representation. It is a faithful saying. 2 Tim. ii. 11. The Faithful, the adherents of any system of religious belief; esp. used as an epithet of the followers of Mohammed. Syn. -- Trusty; honest; upright; sincere; veracious; trustworthy. -- Faith"ful*ly, adv. -Faith"ful*ness, n. FAITHLESS Faith"less, a. 1. Not believing; not giving credit. Be not faithless, but believing. John xx. 27. 2. Not believing on God or religion; specifically, not believing in the Christian religion. Shak. 3. Not observant of promises or covenants. 4. Not true to allegiance, duty, or vows; perfidious; trecherous; disloyal; not of true fidelity; inconstant, as a husband or a wife. A most unnatural and faithless service. Shak. 5. Serving to disappoint or deceive; delusive; unsatisfying. "Yonder faithless phantom." Goldsmith. -- Faith"less*ly, adv.Faith"less*ness, n. FAITOUR Fai"tour, n. Etym: [OF. faitor a doer, L. factor. See Factor.] Defn: A doer