[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

bad laws. Cockeram. DYSODILE Dys"o*dile, n. Etym: [Gr. (Min.) Defn: An impure earthy or coaly bitumen, which emits a highly fetid odor when burning. DYSPEPSIA; DYSPEPSY Dys*pep"si*a, Dys*pep"sy,Etym: [L. dyspepsia, Gr. cook: cf. F. dyspepsie. See Dys-, and 3d Cook.] (Med.) Defn: A kind of indigestion; a state of the stomach in which its functions are disturbed, without the presence of other diseases, or, if others are present, they are of minor importance. Its symptoms are loss of appetite, nausea, heartburn, acrid or fetid eructations, a sense of weight or fullness in the stomach, etc. Dunglison. DYSPEPTIC; DYSPEPTICAL Dys*pep"tic, Dys*pep"tic*al, a. Defn: Pertaining to dyspepsia; having dyspepsia; as, a dyspeptic or dyspeptical symptom. DYSPEPTIC Dys*pep"tic, n. Defn: A person afflicted with dyspepsia. DYSPEPTONE Dys*pep"tone, n. Etym: [Pref. dys- + peptone.] (Physiol. Chem.) Defn: An insoluble albuminous body formed from casein and other proteid substances by the action of gastric juice. Meissner. DYSPHAGIA; DYSPHAGY Dys*pha"gi*a, Dys"pha*gy, n. Etym: [NL. dysphagia, fr. Gr. (Med.) Defn: Difficulty in swallowing. DYSPHONIA; DYSPHONY Dys*pho"ni*a, Dys"pho*ny, n. Etym: [NL. dysphonia, Gr. dysphonie.] (Med.) Defn: A difficulty in producing vocal sounds; enfeebled or depraved voice. DYSPHORIA Dys*pho"ri*a, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. dysphorie.] (Med.) Defn: Impatience under affliction; morbid restlessness; dissatisfaction; the fidgets. DYSPNEA; DYSPNOEA Dysp*nea, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. dyspnée.] (Med.) Defn: Difficulty of breathing. DYSPNOIC Dysp*no"ic, a. (Med.) Defn: Affected with shortness of breath; relating to dyspn DYSPROSIUM Dys*pro"si*um, n. [NL., fr. Gr. dyspro`sitos hard to get at.] (Chem.) Defn: An element of the rare earth-group. Symbol Dy; at. wt., 162.5. DYSTELEOLOGY Dys*te`le*ol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Pref. dys- + teleology.] (Biol.) Defn: The doctrine of purposelessness; a term applied by Haeckel to that branch of physiology which treats of rudimentary organs, in view of their being useless to the life of the organism. To the doctrine of dysteleology, or the denial of final causes, a proof of the real existence of such a thing as instinct must necessarily be fatal. Word (Dynamic Sociology). DYSTOCIA Dys*to"ci*a, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.) Defn: Difficult delivery pr parturition. DYSTOME Dys"tome, a. Etym: [Gr. (Min.) Defn: Cleaving with difficulty. Note: Datolite was called dystome spar by Mohs. DYSURIA; DYSURY Dys*u"ri*a, Dys"u*ry, n. Etym: [L. dysuria, Gr. dysurie.] (Med.) Defn: Difficult or painful discharge of urine. DYSURIC Dys*u"ric, a. Etym: [Gr. dysurique.] Defn: Pertaining to, or afflicted with, dysury. DZEREN; DZERON Dze"ren, Dze"ron, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: The Chinese yellow antelope (Procapra gutturosa), a remarkably swift-footed animal, inhabiting the deserts of Central Asia, Thibet, and China. DZIGGETAI Dzig"ge*tai, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: The kiang, a wild horse or wild ass of Thibet (Asinus hemionus). Note: The name is sometimes applied also to the koulan or onager. See Koulan. E 1. The fifth letter of the English alphabet. Note: It derives its form, name, and value from the Latin, the form and value being further derived from the Greek, into which it came from the Phoenician, and ultimately, probably, from the Egyptian. Its etymological relations are closest with the vowels i, a, and o, as illustrated by to fall, to fell; man, pl. men; drink, drank, drench; dint, dent; doom, deem; goose, pl. geese; beef, OF. boef, L. bos; and E. cheer, OF. chiere, LL. cara. Note: The letter e has in English several vowel sounds, the two principal being its long or name sound, as in eve, me, and the short, as in end, best. Usually at the end of words it is silent, but serves to indicate that the preceding vowel has its long sound, where otherwise it would be short, as in mane, as in cane, m, which without the final e would be pronounced m, c, m. After c and g, the final e indicates that these letters are to be pronounced as s and j; respectively, as in lace, rage. See Guide to Pronunciation, §§ 74-97. 2. (Mus.) Defn: E is the third tone of the model diatonic scale. E (E flat) is a tone which is intermediate between D and E. E- E-. Defn: A Latin prefix meaning out, out of, from; also, without. See Ex-. EACH Each, a. or a. pron. Etym: [OE. eche, ælc, elk, ilk, AS. ælc; a always + gelic like; akin to OD. ieg, OHG. , MHG. iegelich. Aye, Like, and cf. Either, Every, Ilk.] 1. Every one of the two or more individuals composing a number of objects, considered separately from the rest. It is used either with or without a following noun; as, each of you or each one of you. "Each of the combatants." Fielding. Note: To each corresponds other. "Let each esteem other better than himself." Each other, used elliptically for each the other. It is our duty to assist each other; that is, it is our duty, each to assist the other, each being in the nominative and other in the objective case. It is a bad thing that men should hate each other; but it is far worse that they should contract the habit of cutting one another's throats without hatred. Macaulay. Let each His adamantine coat gird well. Milton. In each cheek appears a pretty dimple. Shak. Then draw we nearer day by day, Each to his brethren, all to God. Keble. The oak and the elm have each a distinct character. Gilpin. 2. Every; -- sometimes used interchangeably with every. Shak. I know each lane and every alley green. Milton. In short each man's happiness depends upon himself. Sterne. Note: This use of each for every, though common in Scotland and in America, is now un-English. Fitzed. Hall. Syn. -- See Every. EACHWHERE Each"where`, adv. Defn: Everywhere. [Obs.] The sky eachwhere did show full bright and fair. Spenser. EADISH Ead"ish, n. Defn: See Eddish. EAGER Ea"ger, a. Etym: [OE. egre sharp, sour, eager, OF. agre, aigre, F. aigre, fr. L. acer sharp, sour, spirited, zealous; akin to Gr. a point; fr. a root signifying to be sharp. Cf. Acrid, Edge.] 1. Sharp; sour; acid. [Obs.] "Like eager droppings into milk." Shak. 2. Sharp; keen; bitter; severe. [Obs.] "A nipping and an eager air." "Eager words." Shak. 3. Excited by desire in the pursuit of any object; ardent to pursue, perform, or obtain; keenly desirous; hotly longing; earnest; zealous; impetuous; vehement; as, the hounds were eager in the chase. And gazed for tidings in my eager eyes. Shak. How eagerly ye follow my disgraces! Shak. When to her eager lips is brought Her infant's thrilling kiss. Keble. A crowd of eager and curious schoolboys. Hawthorne. Conceit and grief an eager combat fight. Shak. 4. Brittle; inflexible; not ductile. [Obs.] Gold will be sometimes so eager, as artists call it, that it will as little endure the hammer as glass itself. Locke. Syn. -- Earnest; ardent; vehement; hot; impetuous; fervent; intense; impassioned; zealous; forward. See Earnest. -- Eager, Earnest. Eager marks an excited state of desire or passion; thus, a child is eager for a plaything, a hungry man is eager for food, a covetous man is eager for gain. Eagerness is liable to frequent abuses, and is good or bad, as the case may be. It relates to what is praiseworthy or the contrary. Earnest denotes a permanent state of mind, feeling, or sentiment. It is always taken in a good sense; as, a preacher is earnest in his appeals to the conscience; an agent is earnest in his solicitations. EAGER Ea"ger, n. Defn: Same as Eagre. EAGERLY Ea"ger*ly, adv. Defn: In an eager manner. EAGERNESS Ea"ger*ness, n. 1. The state or quality of being eager; ardent desire. "The eagerness of love." Addison. 2. Tartness; sourness. [Obs.] Syn. -- Ardor; vehemence; earnestness; impetuosity; heartiness; fervor; fervency; avidity; zeal; craving; heat; passion; greediness. EAGLE Ea"gle, n. Etym: [OE. egle, F. aigle, fr. L. aquila; prob. named from its color, fr. aquilus dark-colored, brown; cf. Lith. aklas blind. Cf. Aquiline.] 1. (Zoöl.) Defn: Any large, rapacious bird of the Falcon family, esp. of the genera Aquila and Haliæetus. The eagle is remarkable for strength, size, graceful figure, keenness of vision, and extraordinary flight. The most noted species are the golden eagle (Aquila chrysaëtus); the imperial eagle of Europe (A. mogilnik or imperialis); the American bald eagle (Haliæetus leucocephalus); the European sea eagle (H. albicilla); and the great harpy eagle (Thrasaetus harpyia). The figure of the eagle, as the king of birds, is commonly used as an heraldic emblem, and also for standards and emblematic devices. See Bald eagle, Harpy, and Golden eagle. 2. A gold coin of the United States, of the value of ten dollars. 3. (Astron.) Defn: A northern constellation, containing Altair, a star of the first magnitude. See Aquila. 4. The figure of an eagle borne as an emblem on the standard of the ancient Romans, or so used upon the seal or standard of any people. Though the Roman eagle shadow thee. Tennyson. Note: Some modern nations, as the United States, and France under the Bonapartes, have adopted the eagle as their national emblem. Russia, Austria, and Prussia have for an emblem