[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

Ps. ii. 9. A brave vessel, . . . Dashed all to pieces. Shak. To perplex and dash Maturest counsels. Milton. 3. To put to shame; to confound; to confuse; to abash; to depress. South. Dash the proud gamesPope. 4. To throw in or on in a rapid, careless manner; to mix, reduce, or adulterate, by throwing in something of an inferior quality; to overspread partially; to bespatter; to touch here and there; as, to dash wine with water; to dash paint upon a picture. I take care to dash the character with such particular circumstance as may prevent ill-natured applications. Addison. The very source and fount of day Is dashed with wandering isles of night. Tennyson. 5. To form or sketch rapidly or carelessly; to execute rapidly, or with careless haste; -- with off; as, to dash off a review or sermon. 6. To erase by a stroke; to strike out; knock out; -- with out; as, to dash out a word. DASH Dash, v. i. Defn: To rust with violence; to move impetuously; to strike violently; as, the waves dash upon rocks. [He] dashed through thick and thin. Dryden. On each hand the gushing waters play, And down the rough cascade all dashing fall. Thomson. DASH Dash, n. 1. Violent striking together of two bodies; collision; crash. 2. A sudden check; abashment; frustration; ruin; as, his hopes received a dash. 3. A slight admixture, infusion, or adulteration; a partial overspreading; as, wine with a dash of water; red with a dash of purple. Innocence when it has in it a dash of folly. Addison. 4. A rapid movement, esp. one of short duration; a quick stroke or blow; a sudden onset or rush; as, a bold dash at the enemy; a dash of rain. She takes upon her bravely at first dash. Shak. 5. Energy in style or action; animation; spirit. 6. A vain show; a blustering parade; a flourish; as, to make or cut a great dash. [Low] 7. (Punctuation) Defn: A mark or line [--], in writing or printing, denoting a sudden break, stop, or transition in a sentence, or an abrupt change in its construction, a long or significant pause, or an unexpected or epigrammatic turn of sentiment. Dashes are also sometimes used instead of marks or parenthesis. John Wilson. 8. (Mus.) (a) The sign of staccato, a small mark [. (b) The line drawn through a figure in the thorough bass, as a direction to raise the interval a semitone. 9. (Racing) Defn: A short, spirited effort or trial of speed upon a race course; -- used in horse racing, when a single trial constitutes the race. DASHBOARD Dash"board`, n. 1. A board placed on the fore part of a carriage, sleigh, or other vechicle, to intercept water, mud, or snow, thrown up by the heels of the horses; -- in England commonly called splashboard. 2. (Naut.) (a) The float of a paddle wheel. (b) A screen at the bow af a steam launch to keep off the spray; -- called also sprayboard. DASHEEN Dash`een", n. Defn: A tropical aroid (of the genus Caladium, syn. Colocasia) having an edible farinaceous root. It is related to the taro and to the tanier, but is much superior to it in quality and is as easily cooked as the potato. It is a staple food plant of the tropics, being prepared like potatoes, and has been introduced into the Southern United States. DASHER Dash"er, n. 1. That which dashes or agitates; as, the dasher of a churn. 2. A dashboard or splashboard. [U. S.] 3. One who makes an ostentatious parade. [Low] DASHING Dash"ing, a. Defn: Bold; spirited; showy. The dashing and daring spirit is preferable to the listless. T. Campbell. DASHINGLY Dash"ing*ly, adv. Defn: Conspicuously; showily. [Colloq.] A dashingly dressed gentleman. Hawthorne. DASHISM Dash"ism, n. Defn: The character of making ostentatious or blustering parade or show. [R. & Colloq.] He must fight a duel before his claim to . . . dashism can be universally allowed. V. Knox. DASHPOT Dash"pot`, n. (Mach.) Defn: A pneumatic or hydraulic cushion for a falling weight, as in the valve gear of a steam engine, to prevent shock. Note: It consists of a chamber, containing air or a liquid, in which a piston (a), attached to the weight, falls freely until it enters a space (as below the openings, b) from which the air or liquid can escape but slowly (as through cock c), when its fall is gradually checked. Note: A cataract of an engine is sometimes called a dashpot. DASHY Dash"y, a. Etym: [From Dash.] Defn: Calculated to arrest attention; ostentatiously fashionable; showy. [Colloq.] DASTARD Das"tard, n. Etym: [Prob. from Icel. dæstr exhausted. breathless, p. p. of dæsa to groan, lose one's breath; cf. dasask to become exhausted, and E. daze.] Defn: One who meanly shrinks from danger; an arrant coward; a poltroon. You are all recreants and dashtards, and delight to live in slavery to the nobility. Shak. DASTARD Das"tard, a. Defn: Meanly shrinking from danger; cowardly; dastardly. "Their dastard souls." Addison. DASTARD Das"tard, v. t. Defn: To dastardize. [R.] Dryden. DASTARDIZE Das"tard*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Dastardized; p. pr. & vb. n. Dastardizing.] Defn: To make cowardly; to intimidate; to dispirit; as, to dastardize my courage. Dryden. DASTARDLINESS Das"tard*li*ness, n. Defn: The quality of being dastardly; cowardice; base fear. DASTARDLY Das"tard*ly, a. Defn: Meanly timid; cowardly; base; as, a dastardly outrage. DASTARDNESS Das"tard*ness, n. Defn: Dastardliness. DASTARDY Das"tard*y, n. Defn: Base timidity; cowardliness. DASWE Das"we, v. i. Defn: See Dasewe [Obs.] Chaucer. DASYMETER Da*sym"e*ter, n. Etym: [Gr. rough, thick + -meter.] (Physics) Defn: An instrument for testing the density of gases, consisting of a thin glass globe, which is weighed in the gas or gases, and then in an atmosphere of known density. DASYPAEDAL Das`y*pæ"dal, a. (Zoöl.) Defn: Dasypædic. DASYPAEDES Das`y*pæ"des, n. pl. Etym: [NL., from Gr. hairy, shaggy + , , a child.] (Zoöl.) Defn: Those birds whose young are covered with down when hatched. DASYPAEDIC Das`y*pæ"dic, a. (Zoöl.) Defn: Pertaining to the Dasypædes; ptilopædic. DASYURE Das"y*ure, n. Etym: [Gr. thick, shaggy + tail: cf. F. dasyure.] (Zoöl.) Defn: A carnivorous marsupial quadruped of Australia, belonging to the genus Dasyurus. There are several species. DASYURINE Das`y*u"rine, a. (Zoöl.) Defn: Pertaining to, or like, the dasyures. DATA Da"ta, n. pl. Etym: [L. pl. of datum.] Defn: See Datum. DATABLE Dat"a*ble, a. Defn: That may be dated; having a known or ascertainable date. "Datable almost to a year." The Century. DATARIA Da*ta"ri*a, n. Etym: [LL., fr. L. datum given.] (R. C. Ch.) Defn: Formerly, a part of the Roman chancery; now, a separate office from which are sent graces or favors, cognizable in foro externo, such as appointments to benefices. The name is derived from the word datum, given or dated (with the indications of the time and place of granting the gift or favor). DATARY Da"ta*ry, n. Etym: [LL. datarius. See Dataria.] 1. (R. C. Ch.) Defn: An officer in the pope's court, having charge of the Dataria. 2. The office or employment of a datary. DATE Date, n.Etym: [F. datte, L. dactylus, fr. Gr. , prob. not the same word as finger, but of Semitic origin.] (Bot.) Defn: The fruit of the date palm; also, the date palm itself. Note: This fruit is somewhat in the shape of an olive, containing a soft pulp, sweet, esculent, and wholesome, and inclosing a hard kernel. Date palm, or Date tree (Bot.), the genus of palms which bear dates, of which common species is Phoenix dactylifera. See Illust. -- Date plum (Bot.), the fruit of several species of Diospyros, including the American and Japanese persimmons, and the European lotus (D. Lotus). -- Date shell, or Date fish (Zoöl.), a bivalve shell, or its inhabitant, of the genus Pholas, and allied genera. See Pholas. DATE Date, n. Etym: [F. date, LL. data, fr. L. datus given, p.p. of dare to give; akin to Gr. , OSlaw. dati, Skr. da. Cf. Datum, Dose, Dato, Die.] 1. That addition to a writing, inscription, coin, etc., which specifies the time (as day, month, and year) when the writing or inscription was given, or executed, or made; as, the date of a letter, of a will, of a deed, of a coin. etc. And bonds without a date, they say, are void. Dryden. 2. The point of time at which a transaction or event takes place, or is appointed to take place; a given point of time; epoch; as, the date of a battle. He at once, Down the long series of eventful time, So fixed the dates of being, so disposed To every living soul of every kind The field of motion, and the hour of rest. Akenside. 3. Assigned end; conclusion. [R.] What Time would spare, from Steel receives its date. Pope. 4. Given or assigned length of life; dyration. [Obs.] Good luck prolonged hath thy date. Spenser. Through his life's whole date. Chapman. To bear date, to have