[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

Defn: Prohibited or excluded by law or treaty; forbidden; as, contraband goods, or trade. The contraband will always keep pace, in some measure, with the fair trade. Burke. CONTRABAND Con"tra*band, v. t. 1. To import illegaly, as prohibited goods; to smuggle. [Obs.] Johnson. 2. To declare prohibited; to forbid. [Obs.] The law severly contrabands Our taking business of men's hands. Hudibras. CONTRABANDISM Con"tra*band*ism, n. Defn: Traffic in contraband gods; smuggling. CONTRABANDIST Con"tra*band`ist, n. Defn: One who traffic illegaly; a smuggler. CONTRABASS Con`tra*bass" Defn: , n. (Mus.) Double bass; -- applied to any instrument of the same deep range as the stringed double bass; as, the contrabass ophicleide; the cotrabass tuba or bombardon. CONTRABASSO Con`tra*bas"so, n. Etym: [It. contrabasso.] (Mus.) Defn: The largest kind of bass viol. See Violone. CONTRACT Con*tract", v. t. [imp. & p.p. Contracted; p.pr. & vb.n. Contracting.] Etym: [L. contractus, p.p. of contrahere to contract; con- + trahere to draw: cf. F. contracter. See Trace, and cf. Contract, n.] 1. To draw together or nearer; to reduce to a less compass; to shorten, narrow, or lesen; as, to contract one's shpere of action. In all things desuetude doth contract and narrow our faculties. Dr. H. More. 2. To draw together so as to wrinkle; to knit. Thou didst contract and purse thy brow. Shak. 3. To bring on; to incur; to acquire; as, to contract a habit; to contract a debt; to contract a disease. Each from each contract new strength and light. Pope. Such behavior we contract by having much conversed with persons of high statiSwift. 4. To enter into, with mutual obligations; to make a bargain or covenant for. We have contracted an inviolable amity, peace, and lague with the aforesaid queen. Hakluyt. Many persons . . . had contracted marriage within the degrees of consanguinity . . . prohibited by law. Strype. 5. To betroth; to affiance. The truth is, she and I, long since contracted, Are now so sure, that nothing can dissolve us. Shak. 6. (Gram.) Defn: To shorten by omitting a letter or letters or by reducing two or more vowels or syllables to one. Syn. -- To shorten; abridge; epitomize; narrow; lessen; condense; reduce; confine; incur; assume. CONTRACT Con*tract", v. i. 1. To be drawn together so as to be diminished in size or extent; to shrink; to be reduced in compass or in duration; as, iron contracts in cooling; a rope contracts when wet. Years contracting to a moment. Wordsworth. 2. To make an agreement; to covenant; to agree; to bargain; as, to contract for carrying the mail. CONTRACT Con"tract, a. Defn: Contracted: as, a contract verb. Goodwin. CONTRACT Con*tract", a. Etym: [L. contractus, p.p.] Defn: Contracted; affianced; betrothed. [Obs.] Shak. CONTRACT Con"tract, n. Etym: [L. contractus, fr. contrahere: cf. F. contrat, formerly also contract.] 1. (Law) Defn: The agreement of two or more persons, upon a sufficient consideration or cause, to do, or to abstain from doing, some act; an agreement in which a party undertakes to do, or not to do, a particular thing; a formal bargain; a compact; an interchange of legal rights. Wharton. 2. A formal writing which contains the agreement of parties, with the terms and conditions, and which serves as a proof of the obligation. 3. The act of formally betrothing a man and woman. This is the the night of the contract. Longwellow. Syn. -- Covenant; agreement; compact; stipulation; bargain; arrangement; obligation. See Covenant. CONTRACTED Con*tract"ed, a. 1. Drawn together; shrunken; wrinkled; narrow; as, a contracted brow; a contracted noun. 2. Narrow; illiberal; selfish; as, a contracted mind; contracted views. 3. Bargained for; betrothed; as, a contracted peace. Inquire me out contracted bachelors. Shak. CONTRACTEDNESS Con*tract"ed*ness, n. Defn: The state of being contracted; narrowness; meannes; selfishness. CONTRACTIBILITY Con*tract`i*bil"i*ty, n. Defn: Capability of being contracted; quality of being contractible; as, the contractibiliy and dilatability of air. Arbuthnot. CONTRACTIBLE Con*tract"i*ble, a. Defn: Capable of contraction. Small air bladders distable and contractible. Arbuthnot. CONTRACTIBLENESS Con*tract"i*ble*ness, n. Defn: Contractibility. CONTRACTILE Con*tract"ile, a. Etym: [Cf. F. contractile.] Defn: tending to contract; having the power or property of contracting, or of shrinking into shorter or smaller dimensions; as, the contractile tissues. The heart's contractile force. H. Brooke. Each cilium seems to be composed of contractile substance. Hixley. Contractile vacuole (Zoöl.), a pulsating cavity in the interior of a protozoan, supposed to be excretory in function. There may be one, two, or more. CONTRACTILITY Con`trac*til"i*ty, n. 1. The quality or property by which bodies shrink or contract. 2. (Physiol.) Defn: The power possessed by the fibers of living muscle of contracting or shortening. Note: When subject to the will, as in the muscles of locomotion, such power is called voluntary contractility; when not controlled by the will, as in the muscles of the heart, it is involuntary contractility. CONTRACTION Con*trac"tion, n. Etym: [L. contractio: cf. F. contraction.] 1. The act or process of contracting, shortening, or shrinking; the state of being contracted; as, contraction of the heart, of the pupil of the eye, or of a tendion; the contraction produced by cold. 2. (Math.) Defn: The process of shortening an operation. 3. The act of incurring or becoming subject to, as liabilities, obligation, debts, etc.; the process of becoming subject to; as, the contraction of a disease. 4. Something contracted or abbreviated, as a word or phrase; -- as, plenipo for plenipotentiary; crim. con. for criminal conversation, etc. 5. (Gram.) Defn: The shortening of a word, or of two words, by the omission of a letter or letters, or by reducing two or more vowels or syllables to one; as, ne'er for never; can't for can not; don't for do not; it's for it is. 6. A marriage contract. [Obs.] Shak. CONTRACTIVE Con*tract"ive, a. Defn: Tending to contract; having the property or power or power of contracting. CONTRACTOR Con*tract"or, n. Etym: [L.] Defn: One who contracts; one of the parties to a bargain; one who covenants to do anything for another; specifically, one who contracts to perform work on a rather large scale, at a certain price or rate, as in building houses or making a railroad. CONTRACT SYSTEM Con"tract sys"tem. 1. The sweating system. 2. The system of employing convicts by selling their labor (to be performed inside the prison) at a fixed price per day to contractors who are allowed to have agents in the prison to superintend the work. CONTRACT TABLET Con"tract tablet. (Babylonian & Assyrian Antiq.) Defn: A clay tablet on which was inscribed a contract, for safe keeping. Such tablets were inclosed in an outer case (often called the envelope), on which was inscribed a duplicate of the inscription on the inclosed tablet. CONTRACTURE Con*trac"ture, n. Etym: [L. contractura a drawing together.] (Med.) Defn: A state of permanent rigidity or contraction of the muscles, generally of the flexor muscles. CONTRADANCE Con"tra*dance`, n. Etym: [Pref. contra- + dance: cf. F. contrdance. Cf. Country-dance.] Defn: A dance in which the partners are arranged face to face, or in opposite lines. CONTRADICT Con`tra*dict", v. t. [imp. & p.p. Contradicted; p.pr. & vb.n Contradicting.] Etym: [L. contradictus, p.p. of contradicere to speak against; contra + dicere to speak. See Diction.] 1. To assert the contrary of; to oppose in words; to take issue with; to gainsay; to deny the truth of, as of a statement or a speaker; to impugn. Dear Duff, I prithee, contradict thyself, And say it is not so. Shak. The future can not contradict the past. Wordsworth. 2. To be contrary to; to oppose; to resist. [Obs.] No truth can contradict another truth. Hooker. A greater power than we can contradict Hath thwarted our intents. Shak. CONTRADICT Con`tra*dict, v. i. Defn: To oppose in words; to gainsay; to deny, or assert the contrary of, something. They . . . spake against those things which were spoken by Paul, contradicting and blaspheming. Acts xiii. 45. CONTRADICTABLE Con`tra*dict"a*ble, a. Defn: Capable of being contradicting. CONTRADICTER Con`tra*dict"er, n. Defn: one who contradicts. Swift. CONTRADICTION Con`tra*dic"tion, n. Etym: [L. contradictio answer, objection: cf. F. contradiction.] 1. An assertion of the contrary to what has been said or affirmed; denial of the truth of a statement or assertion; contrary declaration; gainsaying. His fair demands Shall be accomplished without contradiction. Shak. 2. Direct opposition or repugnancy; inconsistency; incongruity or contrariety; one who, or that which, is inconsistent. can be make deathless death That were to make Strange contradiction. Milton. We state our experience and then we come to a manly resolution of acting in contradiction to it. Burke. Both parts of a contradiction can not possibly be true. Hobbes. Of contradictions infinite the slave. Wordsworth. Principle of contradiction (Logic), the axiom or law of thought that a thing cannot be and not be at the same time, or a thing must either be or not be, or the same attribute can not at the same time be affirmed and and denied of the same subject. It develops itself in three specific forms which have been called the "Three Logical Axioms."