[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

track. BOGIE ENGINE Bo"gie en"gine. (Railroads) Defn: A switching engine the running gear and driving gear of which are on a bogie, or truck. BOGLE Bo"gle, n. Etym: [Scot. and North Eng. bogle, bogill, bugill, specter; as a verb, to terrify, fr. W. bwgwl threatening, fear, bwg, bwgan, specter, hobgoblin. Cf. Bug.] Defn: A goblin; a specter; a frightful phantom; a bogy; a bugbear. [Written also boggle.] BOGSUCKER Bog"suck`er, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: The American woodcock; -- so called from its feeding among the bogs. BOGTROTTER Bog"trot`ter, n. Defn: One who lives in a boggy country; -- applied in derision to the lowest class of Irish. Halliwell. BOGTROTTING Bog"trot`ting, a. Defn: Living among bogs. BOGUE Bogue, v. i. (Naut.) Defn: To fall off from the wind; to edge away to leeward; -- said only of inferior craft. BOGUE Bogue, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: The boce; -- called also bogue bream. See Boce. BOGUS Bo"gus, a. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.] Defn: Spurious; fictitious; sham; -- a cant term originally applied to counterfeit coin, and hence denoting anything counterfeit. [Colloq. U. S.] BOGUS Bo"gus, n. Defn: A liquor made of rum and molasses. [Local, U. S.] Bartlett. BOGWOOD Bog"wood`, n. Defn: The wood of trees, esp. of oaks, dug up from peat bogs. It is of a shining black or ebony color, and is largely used for making ornaments. BOGY Bo"gy, n.; pl. Bogies. Etym: [See Bogle.] Defn: A specter; a hobgoblin; a bugbear. "Death's heads and bogies." J. H. Newman. [Written also bogey.] There are plenty of such foolish attempts at playing bogy in the history of savages. C. Kingsley. BOHEA Bo*hea", n. Etym: [From Wu-i, pronounced by the Chinese bu-i, the name of the hills where this kind of tea is grown.] Defn: Bohea tea, an inferior kind of black tea. See under Tea. Note: The name was formerly applied to superior kinds of black tea, or to black tea in general. BOHEMIA Bo*he"mi*a, n. 1. A country of central Europe. 2. Fig.: The region or community of social Bohemians. See Bohemian, n., 3. She knew every one who was any one in the land of Bohemia. Compton Reade. BOHEMIAN Bo*he"mi*an, a. 1. Of or pertaining to Bohemia, or to the language of its ancient inhabitants or their descendants. See Bohemian, n., 2. 2. Of or pertaining to a social gypsy or "Bohemian" (see Bohemian, n., 3); vagabond; unconventional; free and easy. [Modern] Hers was a pleasant Bohemian life till she was five and thirty. Blackw. Mag. Artists have abandoned their Bohemian manners and customs nowadays. W. Black. Bohemian chatterer, or Bohemian waxwing (Zoöl.), a small bird of Europe and America (Ampelis garrulus); the waxwing. -- Bohemian glass, a variety of hard glass of fine quality, made in Bohemia. It is of variable composition, containing usually silica, lime, and potash, rarely soda, but no lead. It is often remarkable for beauty of color. BOHEMIAN Bo*he"mi*an, n. 1. A native of Bohemia. 2. The language of the Czechs (the ancient inhabitants of Bohemia), the richest and most developed of the dialects of the Slavic family. 3. A restless vagabond; -- originally, an idle stroller or gypsy (as in France) thought to have come from Bohemia; in later times often applied to an adventurer in art or literature, of irregular, unconventional habits, questionable tastes, or free morals. [Modern] Note: In this sense from the French bohémien, a gypsy; also, a person of irregular habits. She was of a wild, roving nature, inherited from father and mother, who were both Bohemians by taste and circumstances. Thackeray. BOHEMIANISM Bo*he"mi*an*ism, n. Defn: The characteristic conduct or methods of a Bohemian. [Modern] BOHUN UPAS Bo"hun u"pas. Defn: See Upas. BOIAR Bo*iar", n. Defn: See Boyar. BOIL Boil, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Boiled; p. pr. & vb. n. Boiling.] Etym: [OE. boilen, OF. boilir, builir, F. bouillir, fr. L. bullire to be in a bubbling motion, from bulla bubble; akin to Gr. , Lith. bumbuls. Cf. Bull an edict, Budge, v., and Ebullition.] 1. To be agitated, or tumultuously moved, as a liquid by the generation and rising of bubbles of steam (or vapor), or of currents produced by heating it to the boiling point; to be in a state of ebullition; as, the water boils. 2. To be agitated like boiling water, by any other cause than heat; to bubble; to effervesce; as, the boiling waves. He maketh the deep to boil like a pot. Job xii. 31. 3. To pass from a liquid to an aëriform state or vapor when heated; as, the water boils away. 4. To be moved or excited with passion; to be hot or fervid; as, his blood boils with anger. Then boiled my breast with flame and burning wrath. Surrey. 5. To be in boiling water, as in cooking; as, the potatoes are boiling. To boil away, to vaporize; to evaporate or be evaporated by the action of heat. -- To boil over, to run over the top of a vessel, as liquid when thrown into violent agitation by heat or other cause of effervescence; to be excited with ardor or passion so as to lose self-control. BOIL Boil, v. t. 1. To heat to the boiling point, or so as to cause ebullition; as, to boil water. 2. To form, or separate, by boiling or evaporation; as, to boil sugar or salt. 3. To subject to the action of heat in a boiling liquid so as to produce some specific effect, as cooking, cleansing, etc.; as, to boil meat; to boil clothes. The stomach cook is for the hall, And boileth meate for them all. Gower. 4. To steep or soak in warm water. [Obs.] To try whether seeds be old or new, the sense can not inform; but if you boil them in water, the new seeds will sprout sooner. Bacon. To boil down, to reduce in bulk by boiling; as, to boil down sap or sirup. BOIL Boil, n. Defn: Act or state of boiling. [Colloq.] BOIL Boil, n. Etym: [Influenced by boil, v. See Beal, Bile.] Defn: A hard, painful, inflamed tumor, which, on suppuration, discharges pus, mixed with blood, and discloses a small fibrous mass of dead tissue, called the core. A blind boil, one that suppurates imperfectly, or fails to come to a head. -- Delhi boil (Med.), a peculiar affection of the skin, probably parasitic in origin, prevailing in India (as among the British troops) and especially at Delhi. BOILARY Boil"a*ry, n. Defn: See Boilery. BOILED Boiled, a. Defn: Dressed or cooked by boiling; subjected to the action of a boiling liquid; as, boiled meat; a boiled dinner; boiled clothes. BOILER Boil"er, n. 1. One who boils. 2. A vessel in which any thing is boiled. Note: The word boiler is a generic term covering a great variety of kettles, saucepans, clothes boilers, evaporators, coppers, retorts, etc. 3. (Mech.) Defn: A strong metallic vessel, usually of wrought iron plates riveted together, or a composite structure variously formed, in which steam is generated for driving engines, or for heating, cooking, or other purposes. Note: The earliest steam boilers were usually spheres or sections of spheres, heated wholly from the outside. Watt used the wagon boiler (shaped like the top of a covered wagon) which is still used with low pressures. Most of the boilers in present use may be classified as plain cylinder boilers, flue boilers, sectional and tubular boilers. Barrel of a boiler, the cylindrical part containing the flues. -- Boiler plate, Boiler iron, plate or rolled iron of about a quarter to a half inch in thickness, used for making boilers and tanks, for covering ships, etc. -- Cylinder boiler, one which consists of a single iron cylinder. -- Flue boilers are usually single shells containing a small number of large flues, through which the heat either passes from the fire or returns to the chimney, and sometimes containing a fire box inclosed by water. -- Locomotive boiler, a boiler which contains an inclosed fire box and a large number of small flues leading to the chimney. -- Multiflue boiler. Same as Tubular boiler, below. -- Sectional boiler, a boiler composed of a number of sections, which are usually of small capacity and similar to, and connected with, each other. By multiplication of the sections a boiler of any desired capacity can be built up. -- Tubular boiler, a boiler containing tubes which form flues, and are surrounded by the water contained in the boiler. See Illust. of Steam boiler, under Steam. -- Tubulous boiler. See under Tubulous. See Tube, n., 6, and 1st Flue. BOILERY Boil"er*y, n. Etym: [Cf. F. bouillerie.] Defn: A place and apparatus for boiling, as for evaporating brine in salt making. BOILING Boil"ing, a. Defn: Heated to the point of bubbling; heaving with bubbles; in tumultuous agitation, as boiling liquid; surging; seething; swelling with heat, ardor, or passion. Boiling point, the temperature at which a fluid is converted into vapor, with the phenomena of ebullition. This is different