[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

leather.] 1. Armor made of leather, particularly that used by the Romans; used also by Enlish soldiers till the reign of Edward I. Fosbroke. 2. (Anat.) (a) Same as Dermis. (b) The deep layer of mucous membranes beneath the epithelium. CORIVAL Co*ri"val (k-r"val), n. Defn: A rival; a corrival. CORIVAL Co*ri"val, v. t. Defn: To rival; to pretend to equal. Shak. CORIVALRY; CORIVALSHIP Co*ri"val*ry, Co*ri"val*ship, n. Defn: Joint rivalry. CORK Cork (krk), n. Etym: [Cf. G., Dan., & Sw. kork, D. kurk; all fr. Sp. corcho, fr. L. cortex, corticis, bark, rind. Cf. Cortex.] 1. The outer layer of the bark of the cork tree (Quercus Suber), of which stoppers for bottles and casks are made. See Cutose. 2. A stopper for a bottle or cask, cut out of cork. 3. A mass of tabular cells formed in any kind of bark, in greater or less abundance. Note: Cork is sometimes used wrongly for calk, calker; calkin, a sharp piece of iron on the shoe of a horse or ox. Cork jackets, a jacket having thin pieces of cork inclosed within canvas, and used to aid in swimming. -- Cork tree (Bot.), the species of oak (Quercus Suber of Southern Europe) whose bark furnishes the cork of commerce. CORK Cork, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Corked (krkt); p. pr. & vb. n. Corking.] 1. To stop with a cork, as a bottle. 2. To furnish or fit with cork; to raise on cork. Tread on corked stilts a prisoner's pace. Bp. Hall. Note: To cork is sometimes used erroneously for to calk, to furnish the shoe of a horse or ox with sharp points, and also in the meaning of cutting with a calk. CORKAGE Cork"age (-j), n. Defn: The charge made by innkeepers for drawing the cork and taking care of bottles of wine bought elsewhere by a guest. CORKED Corked (krkt), a. Defn: having acquired an unpleasant taste from the cork; as, a bottle of wine is corked. CORK FOSSIL Cork" fos`sil (krk" fs`sl). (Min.) Defn: A variety of amianthus which is very light, like cork. CORKINESS Cork"i*ness (--ns), n. Defn: The quality of being corky. CORKING PIN Cork"ing pin` (krk"ng pn`). Defn: A pin of a large size, formerly used attaching a woman's headdress to a cork mold. [Obs.] Swift. CORKSCREW Cork"screw` (-skr"), n. Defn: An instrument with a screw or a steel spiral for drawing corks from bottles. Corkscrew starts, a spiral staircase around a solid newel. CORKSCREW Cork"screw`, v. t. Defn: To press forward in a winding way; as, to corksrew one's way through a crowd. [Colloq.] Dickens. CORKWING Cork"wing` (-wng`), n. (Zoöl.) Defn: A fish; the goldsinny. CORKWOOD Cork"wood` (kôrk"wood`), n. 1. The wood of the cork oak. [Obs.] 2. Any one of several trees or shrubs having light or corky wood; esp.: (a) In the United States, the tree Leitneria floridana. (b) In the West Indies: (1) Either of the cotton trees Ochroma lagopus and Pariti tiliaceum. (2) Defn: The tree producing the aligator apple. (3) Defn: The blolly. CORKY Cork"y (-), a. 1. Consisting of, or like, cork; dry shriveled up. Bind fast hiss corky arms. Shak. 2. Tasting of cork. CORM Corm (krm), n. Etym: [See Cormus.] 1. (Bot.) Defn: A solid bulb-shaped root, as of the crocus. See Bulb. 2. (Biol.) Defn: Same as Cormus, 2. CORMOGENY Cor*mog"e*ny (kr-mj"-n), n. Etym: [Gr. (Biol.) Defn: The embryological history of groups or families of individuals. CORMOPHYLOGENY Cor`mo*phy*log"e*ny (kr`m-f-lj"-n), n. Etym: [Gr. phylogeny.] (Biol.) Defn: The phylogeny of groups or families of individuals. Haeckel. CORMOPHYTES; CORMOPHYTA Cor"mo*phytes (kr"m-fts), Cor*moph"y*ta (kr-mf"-t), n. pl. Etym: [NL. cormophyta, fr. Gr. trunk of a tree + (Bot.) Defn: A term proposed by Endlicher to include all plants with an axis containing vascular tissue and with foliage. CORMORANT Cor`mo*rant (kr"m-rant), n. Etym: [F. cormoran, fr. Armor. m a sea raven; m sea + bran raven, with cor, equiv. to L. corvus raven, pleonastically prefixed; or perh. fr. L. corvus marinus sea raven.] 1. (Zoöl.) Defn: Any species of Phalacrocorax, a genus of sea birds having a sac under the beak; the shag. Cormorants devour fish voraciously, and have become the emblem of gluttony. They are generally black, and hence are called sea ravens, and coalgeese. [Written also corvorant.] 2. A voracious eater; a glutton, or gluttonous servant. B. Jonson. CORMORAUT Cor"mo*raut, a. Defn: Ravenous; voracious. Cormorant, devouring time. Shak. CORMUS Cor"mus (kr"ms), n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. 1. (Bot.) Defn: See Corm. 2. (Biol.) Defn: A vegetable or animal made up of a number of individuals, such as, for example, would be formed by a process of budding from a parent stalk wherre the buds remain attached. CORN Corn (krn), n. Etym: [L. cornu horn: cf. F. corne horn, hornlike excrescence. See Horn.] Defn: A thickening of the epidermis at some point, esp. on the toees, by friction or pressure. It is usually painful and troublesome. Welkome, gentlemen! Ladies that have their toes Unplagued with corns, will have a bout with you. Shak. Note: The substance of a corn usually resembles horn, but where moisture is present, as between the toes, it is white and sodden, and is called a soft corn. CORN Corn, n. Etym: [AS. corn; akin to OS. korn, D. koren, G., Dan., Sw., & Icel. korn, Goth. ka, L. granum, Russ. zerno. Cf. Grain, Kernel.] 1. A single seed of certain plants, as wheat, rye, barley, and maize; a grain. 2. The various farinaceous grains of the cereal grasses used for food, as wheat, rye, barley, maize, oats. Note: In Scotland, corn is generally restricted to oats, in the United States, to maize, or Indian corn, of which there are several kinds; as, yellow corn, which grows chiefly in the Northern States, and is yellow when ripe; white or southern corn, which grows to a great height, and has long white kernels; sweet corn, comprising a number of sweet and tender varieties, grown chiefly at the North, some of which have kernels that wrinkle when ripe and dry; pop corn, any small variety, used for popping. 3. The plants which produce corn, when growing in the field; the stalks and ears, or the stalks, ears, and seeds, after reaping and before thrashing. In one night, ere glimpse of morn, His shadowy flail had thrashed the corn. Milton. 4. A small, hard particle; a grain. "Corn of sand." Bp. Hall. "A corn of powder." Beau & Fl. Corn ball, a ball of popped corn stuck together with soft candy from molasses or sugar. -- Corn bread, bread made of Indian meal. -- Corn cake, a kind of corn bread; johnny cake; hoecake. -- Corn cockle (Bot.), a weed (Agrostemma or Lychnis Githago), having bright flowers, common in grain fields. -- Corn flag (Bot.), a plant of the genus Gladiolus; -- called also sword lily. -- Corn fly. (Zoöl.) (a) A small fly which, in the larval state, is injurious to grain, living in the stalk, and causing the disease called "gout," on account of the swelled joints. The common European species is Chlorops tæniopus. (b) A small fly (Anthomyia ze) whose larva or maggot destroys seed corn after it has been planted. -- Corn fritter, a fritter having green Indian corn mixed through its batter. [U. S.] -- Corn laws, laws regulating trade in corn, especially those in force in Great Britain till 1846, prohibiting the importation of foreign grain for home consumption, except when the price rose above a certain rate. -- Corn marigold. (Bot.) See under Marigold. -- Corn oyster, a fritter containing grated green Indian corn and butter, the combined taste resembling that of oysters. [U.S.] -- Corn parsley (Bot.), a plant of the parsley genus (Petroselinum ssegetum), a weed in parts of Europe and Asia. -- Corn popper, a utensil used in popping corn. -- Corn poppy (Bot.), the red poppy (Papaver Rhoeas), common in European cornfields; -- also called corn rose. -- Corn rent, rent paid in corn. -- Corn rose. See Corn poppy. -- Corn salad (Bot.), a name given to several species of Valerianella, annual herbs sometimes used for salad. V. olitoria is also called lamb's lettuce. -- Corn stone, red limestone. [Prov. Eng.] -- Corn violet (Bot.), a species of Campanula. -- Corn weevil. (Zoöl.) (a) A small weevil which causes great injury to grain. (b) In America, a weevil (Sphenophorus zeæ) which attacks the stalk of maize near the root, often doing great damage. See Grain weevil, under Weevil. CORN Corn, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Corned (krnd); p. pr. & vb. n. Corning.] 1. To preserve and season with salt in grains; to sprinkle with salt; to cure by salting; now, specifically, to salt slightly in brine or otherwise; as, to corn beef; to corn a tongue. 2. To form into small grains; to granulate; as, to corn gunpowder. 3. To feed with corn or (in Sctland) oats; as, to corn horses. Jamieson. 4. To render intoxicated; as, ale strong enough to corn