[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

or crowfoot, particularly R. bulbosus, with bright yellow flowers; -- called also butterflower, golden cup, and kingcup. It is the cuckoobud of Shakespeare. BUTTER-FINGERED But"ter-fin`gered, a. Defn: Apt to let things fall, or to let them slip away; slippery; careless. BUTTERFISH But"ter*fish`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: A name given to several different fishes, in allusion to their slippery coating of mucus, as the Stromateus triacanthus of the Atlantic coast, the Epinephelus punctatus of the southern coast, the rock eel, and the kelpfish of New Zealand. BUTTERFLY But"ter*fly`, n.; pl. Butterflies. Etym: [Perh. from the color of a yellow species. AS. buter-flege, buttor-fleóge; cf. G. butterfliege, D. botervlieg. See Butter, and Fly.] (Zoöl.) Defn: A general name for the numerous species of diurnal Lepidoptera. Note: [See Illust. under Aphrodite.] Asclepias butterfly. See under Asclepias. -- Butterfly fish (Zoöl.), the ocellated blenny (Blennius ocellaris) of Europe. See Blenny. The term is also applied to the flying gurnard. -- Butterfly shell (Zoöl.), a shell of the genus Voluta. -- Butterfly valve (Mech.), a kind of double clack valve, consisting of two semicircular clappers or wings hinged to a cross rib in the pump bucket. When open it somewhat resembles a butterfly in shape. BUTTERINE But"ter*ine, n. Defn: A substance prepared from animal fat with some other ingredients intermixed, as an imitation of butter. The manufacturers ship large quantities of oleomargarine to England, Holland, and other countries, to be manufactured into butter, which is sold as butterine or suine. Johnson's Cyc. BUTTERIS But"ter*is, n. Etym: [The same word as buttress, noun, in a different application, F. bouter to push.] (Far.) Defn: A steel cutting instrument, with a long bent shank set in a handle which rests against the shoulder of the operator. It is operated by a thrust movement, and used in paring the hoofs of horses. BUTTERMAN But"ter*man`, n.; pl. Buttermen (. Defn: A man who makes or sells butter. BUTTERMILK But"ter*milk`, n. Defn: The milk that remains after the butter is separated from the cream. BUTTERNUT But"ter*nut`, n. 1. (Bot.) Defn: An American tree (Juglans cinerea) of the Walnut family, and its edible fruit; -- so called from the oil contained in the latter. Sometimes called oil nut and white walnut. 2. (Bot.) Defn: The nut of the Caryocar butyrosum and C. nuciferum, of S. America; -- called also Souari nut. BUTTER-SCOTCH But"ter-scotch`, n. Defn: A kind of candy, mainly composed of sugar and butter. [Colloq.] Dickens. BUTTERWEED But"ter*weed`, n. (Bot.) Defn: An annual composite plant of the Mississippi valley (Senecio lobatus). BUTTERWEIGHT But"ter*weight`, n. Defn: Over weight. Swift. Note: Formerly it was a custom to give 18 ounces of butter for a pound. BUTTERWORT But"ter*wort`, n. (Bot.) Defn: A genus of low herbs (Pinguicula) having simple leaves which secrete from their glandular upper surface a viscid fluid, to which insects adhere, after which the margin infolds and the insects are digested by the plant. The species are found mostly in the North Temperate zone. BUTTERY But"ter*y, a. Defn: Having the qualities, consistence, or appearance, of butter. BUTTERY But"ter*y, n.; pl. Buttplwies (. Etym: [OE. botery, botry; cf. LL. botaria wine vessel; also OE. botelerie, fr. F. bouteillerie, fr. boutellie bottle. Not derived from butter. See Bottle a hollow vessel, Butt a cask.] 1. An apartment in a house where butter, milk and other provisions are kept. All that need a cool and fresh temper, as cellars, pantries, and butteries, to the north. Sir H. Wotton. 2. A room in some English colleges where liquors, fruit, and refreshments are kept for sale to the students. And the major Oxford kept the buttery bar. E. Hall. 3. A cellar in which butts of wine are kept. Weale. Buttery hatch, a half door between the buttery or kitchen and the hall, in old mansions, over which provisions were passed. Wright. BUTT HINGE Butt" hinge`. Defn: See 1st Butt, 10. BUT-THORN But"-thorn`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: The common European starfish (Asterias rubens). BUTTING But"ting, n. Defn: An abuttal; a boundary. Without buttings or boundings on any side. Bp. Beveridge. BUTTING JOINT But"ting joint`. Defn: A joint between two pieces of timber or wood, at the end of one or both, and either at right angles or oblique to the grain, as the joints which the struts and braces form with the truss posts; -- sometimes called abutting joint. BUTT JOINT Butt" joint`. Defn: A joint in which the edges or ends of the pieces united come squarely together instead of overlapping. See 1st Butt, 8. BUTTOCK But"tock, n. Etym: [From Butt an end.] 1. The part at the back of the hip, which, in man, forms one of the rounded protuberances on which he sits; the rump. 2. (Naut.) Defn: The convexity of a ship behind, under the stern. Mar. Dict. BUTTON But"ton, n. Etym: [OE. boton, botoun, F. bouton button, bud, prop. something pushing out, fr. bouter to push. See Butt an end.] 1. A knob; a small ball; a small, roundish mass. 2. A catch, of various forms and materials, used to fasten together the different parts of dress, by being attached to one part, and passing through a slit, called a buttonhole, in the other; -- used also for ornament. 3. A bud; a germ of a plant. Shak. 4. A piece of wood or metal, usually flat and elongated, turning on a nail or screw, to fasten something, as a door. 5. A globule of metal remaining onan assay cupel or in a crucible, after fusion. Button hook, a hook for catching a button and drawing it through a buttonhole, as in buttoning boots and gloves. -- Button shell (Zoöl.), a small, univalve marine shell of the genus Rotella. -- Button snakeroot. (Bot.) (a) The American composite genus Liatris, having rounded buttonlike heads of flowers. (b) An American umbelliferous plant with rigid, narrow leaves, and flowers in dense heads. -- Button tree (Bot.), a genus of trees (Conocarpus), furnishing durable timber, mostly natives of the West Indies. -- To hold by the button, to detain in conversation to weariness; to bore; to buttonhole. BUTTON But"ton, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Buttoned; p. pr. & vb. n. Buttoning.] Etym: [OE. botonen, OF. botoner, F. boutonner. See Button, n.] 1. To fasten with a button or buttons; to inclose or make secure with buttons; -- often followed by up. He was a tall, fat, long-bodied man, buttoned up to the throat in a tight green coat. Dickens. 2. To dress or clothe. [Obs.] Shak. BUTTON But"ton, v. i. Defn: To be fastened by a button or buttons; as, the coat will not button. BUTTONBALL But"ton*ball`, n. (Bot.) Defn: See Buttonwood. BUTTONBUSH But"ton*bush`, n. (Bot.) Defn: A shrub (Cephalanthus occidentalis) growing by the waterside; - - so called from its globular head of flowers. See Capitulum. BUTTONHOLE But"ton*hole`, n. Defn: The hole or loop in which a button is caught. BUTTONHOLE But"ton*hole`, v. t. Defn: To hold at the button or buttonhole; to detain in conversation to weariness; to bore; as, he buttonholed me a quarter of an hour. BUTTONMOLD But"ton*mold`, n. Defn: A disk of bone, wood, or other material, which is made into a button by covering it with cloth. [Written also buttonmould.] Fossil buttonmolds, joints of encrinites. See Encrinite. BUTTONS But"tons, n. Defn: A boy servant, or page, -- in allusion to the buttons on his livry. [Colloq.] Dickens. BUTTONWEED But"ton*weed`, n. (Bot.) Defn: The name of several plants of the genera Spermacoce and Diodia, of the Madder family. BUTTONWOOD But"ton*wood`, n. (Bot.) Defn: The Platanus occidentalis, or American plane tree, a large tree, producing rough balls, from which it is named; -- called also buttonball tree, and, in some parts of the United States, sycamore. The California buttonwood is P. racemosa. BUTTONY But"ton*y, a. Defn: Ornamented with a large number of buttons. "The buttony boy." Thackeray. "My coat so blue and buttony." W. S. Gilbert. BUTTRESS But"tress, n. Etym: [OE. butrasse, boterace, fr. F. bouter to push; cf. OF. bouteret (nom. sing. and acc. pl. bouterez) buttress. See Butt an end, and cf. Butteris.] 1. (Arch.) Defn: A projecting mass of masonry, used for resisting the thrust of an arch, or for ornament and symmetry. Note: When an external projection is used merely to stiffen a wall, it is a pier. 2. Anything which supports or strengthens. "The ground pillar and buttress of the good old cause of nonconformity." South. Flying buttress. See Flying buttress. BUTTRESS But"tress, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Buttressed (p. pr. & vb. n. Buttressing.] Defn: To support with a buttress; to prop; to brace firmly. To set it upright again, and to prop and buttress it up for duration. Burke. BUTT SHAFT Butt" shaft` Defn: An arrow without a barb, for shooting at butts; an arrow. [Also but shaft.] Shak. BUTT WELD Butt" weld`. Defn: See Butt weld, under Butt. BUTTWELD Butt"weld`, v. t. Defn: To unite by a butt weld. BUTTY But"ty, n. (Mining) Defn: One who mines by contract, at so much per