[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

v. i. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.] Defn: To flow forth; to roll out; to course. [Obs.] Streams of tears from her fair eyes forth railing. Spenser. RAIL Rail, n. Etym: [Akin to LG. & Sw. regel bar, bolt, G. riegel a rail, bar, or bolt, OHG, rigil, rigel, bar, bolt, and possibly to E. row a line.] 1. A bar of timber or metal, usually horizontal or nearly so, extending from one post or support to another, as in fences, balustrades, staircases, etc. 2. (Arch.) Defn: A horizontal piece in a frame or paneling. See Illust. of Style. 3. (Railroad) Defn: A bar of steel or iron, forming part of the track on which the wheels roll. It is usually shaped with reference to vertical strength, and is held in place by chairs, splices, etc. 4. (Naut.) (a) The stout, narrow plank that forms the top of the bulwarks. (b) The light, fencelike structures of wood or metal at the break of the deck, and elsewhere where such protection is needed. Rail fence. See under Fence. -- Rail guard. (a) A device attached to the front of a locomotive on each side for clearing the rail obstructions. (b) A guard rail. See under Guard. -- Rail joint (Railroad), a splice connecting the adjacent ends of rails, in distinction from a chair, which is merely a seat. The two devices are sometimes united. Among several hundred varieties, the fish joint is standard. See Fish joint, under Fish. -- Rail train (Iron & Steel Manuf.), a train of rolls in a rolling mill, for making rails for railroads from blooms or billets. RAIL Rail, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Railed; p. pr. & vb. n. Railing.] 1. To inclose with rails or a railing. It ought to be fenced in and railed. Ayliffe. 2. To range in a line. [Obs.] They were brought to London all railed in ropes, like a team of horses in a cart. Bacon. RAIL Rail, n. Etym: [F. râle, fr. râler to have a rattling in the throat; of German origin, and akin to E. rattle. See Rattle, v.] (Zoöl.) Defn: Any one of numerous species of limicoline birds of the family Rallidæ, especially those of the genus Rallus, and of closely allied genera. They are prized as game birds. Note: The common European water rail (Rallus aquaticus) is called also bilcock, skitty coot, and brook runner. The best known American species are the clapper rail, or salt-marsh hen (Rallus lonqirostris, var. crepitans); the king, or red-breasted, rail (R. elegans) (called also fresh-water marshhen); the lesser clapper, or Virginia, rail (R. Virginianus); and the Carolina, or sora, rail (Porzana Carolina). See Sora. Land rail (Zoöl.), the corncrake. RAIL Rail, v. i. Etym: [F. railler; cf. Sp. rallar to grate, scrape, molest; perhaps fr. (assumed) LL. radiculare, fr. L. radere to scrape, grate. Cf. Rally to banter, Rase.] Defn: To use insolent and reproachful language; to utter reproaches; to scoff; followed by at or against, formerly by on. Shak. And rail at arts he did not understand. Dryden. Lesbia forever on me rails. Swift. RAIL Rail, v. t. 1. To rail at. [Obs.] Feltham. 2. To move or influence by railing. [R.] Rail the seal from off my bond. Shak. RAILER Rail"er, n. Defn: One who rails; one who scoffs, insults, censures, or reproaches with opprobrious language. RAILING Rail"ing, a. Defn: Expressing reproach; insulting. Angels which are greater in power and might, bring not railing accusation against them. 2 Pet. ii. 11. RAILING Rail"ing, n. 1. A barrier made of a rail or of rails. 2. Rails in general; also, material for making rails. RAILINGLY Rail"ing*ly, adv. Defn: With scoffing or insulting language. RAILLERY Rail"ler*y, n. Etym: [F. raillerie, fr. railler. See Rail to scoff.] Defn: Pleasantry or slight satire; banter; jesting language; satirical merriment. Let raillery be without malice or heat. B. Jonson. Studies employed on low objects; the very naming of them is sufficient to turn them into raillery. Addison. RAILLEUR Rail`leur", n. Etym: [F.] Defn: A banterer; a jester; a mocker. [R.] Wycherley. RAILROAD; RAILWAY Rail"road`, Rail"way`, n. 1. A road or way consisting of one or more parallel series of iron or steel rails, patterned and adjusted to be tracks for the wheels of vehicles, and suitably supported on a bed or substructure. Note: The modern railroad is a development and adaptation of the older tramway. 2. The road, track, etc., with al the lands, buildings, rolling stock, franchises, etc., pertaining to them and constituting one property; as, certain railroad has been put into the hands of a receiver. Note: Railway is the commoner word in England; railroad the commoner word in the United States. Note: In the following and similar phrases railroad and railway are used interchangeably: --Atmospheric railway, Elevated railway, etc. See under Atmospheric, Elevated, etc. -- Cable railway. See Cable road, under Cable. -- Perry railway, a submerged track on which an elevated platform runs, fro carrying a train of cars across a water course. -- Gravity railway, a railway, in a hilly country, on which the cars run by gravity down gentle slopes for long distances after having been hauled up steep inclines to an elevated point by stationary engines. -- Railway brake, a brake used in stopping railway cars or locomotives. -- Railway car, a large, heavy vehicle with flanged wheels fitted for running on a railway. [U.S.] -- Railway carriage, a railway passenger car. [Eng.] -- Railway scale, a platform scale bearing a track which forms part of the line of a railway, for weighing loaded cars. -- Railway slide. See Transfer table, under Transfer. -- Railway spine (Med.), an abnormal condition due to severe concussion of the spinal cord, such as occurs in railroad accidents. It is characterized by ataxia and other disturbances of muscular function, sensory disorders, pain in the back, impairment of general health, and cerebral disturbance, -- the symptoms often not developing till some months after the injury. -- Underground railroad or railway. (a) A railroad or railway running through a tunnel, as beneath the streets of a city. (b) Formerly, a system of coöperation among certain active antislavery people in the United States, by which fugitive slaves were secretly helped to reach Canada. Note: [In the latter sense railroad, and not railway, was used.] "Their house was a principal entrepôt of the underground railroad." W. D. Howells. RAILROADING Rail"road`ing, n. Defn: The construction of a railroad; the business of managing or operating a railroad. [Colloq. U. S.] RAIMENT Rai"ment, n. Etym: [Abbrev. fr. arraiment. See Array.] 1. Clothing in general; vesture; garments; -- usually singular in form, with a collective sense. Living, both food and raiment she supplies. Dryden. 2. An article of dress. [R. or Obs.] Sir P. Sidney. RAIN Rain, n. & v. Defn: Reign. [Obs.] Spenser. RAIN Rain, n. Etym: [OF. rein, AS. regen; akin to OFries. rein, D. & G. regen, OS. & OHG. regan, Icel., Dan., & Sw. regn, Goth. rign, and prob. to L. rigare to water, to wet; cf. Gr. Defn: Water falling in drops from the clouds; the descent of water from the clouds in drops. Rain is water by the heat of the sun divided into very small parts ascending in the air, till, encountering the cold, it be condensed into clouds, and descends in drops. Ray. Fair days have oft contracted wind and rain. Milton. Note: Rain is distinguished from mist by the size of the drops, which are distinctly visible. When water falls in very small drops or particles, it is called mist; and fog is composed of particles so fine as to be not only individually indistinguishable, but to float or be suspended in the air. See Fog, and Mist. Rain band (Meteorol.), a dark band in the yellow portion of the solar spectrum near the sodium line, caused by the presence of watery vapor in the atmosphere, and hence sometimes used in weather predictions. -- Rain bird (Zoöl.), the yaffle, or green woodpecker. [Prov. Eng.] The name is also applied to various other birds, as to Saurothera vetula of the West Indies. -- Rain fowl (Zoöl.), the channel-bill cuckoo (Scythrops Novæ- Hollandiæ) of Australia. -- Rain gauge, an instrument of various forms measuring the quantity of rain that falls at any given place in a given time; a pluviometer; an ombrometer. -- Rain goose (Zoöl.), the red-throated diver, or loon. [Prov. Eng.] -- Rain prints (Geol.), markings on the surfaces of stratified rocks, presenting an appearance similar to those made by rain on mud and sand, and believed to have been so produced. -- Rain quail. (Zoöl.) See Quail, n., 1. -- Rain water, water that has fallen from the clouds in rain. RAIN Rain, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Rained; p. pr. & vb. n. Raining.] Etym: [AS. regnian, akin to G. regnen, Goth. rignjan. See Rain, n.] 1. To fall in drops from the clouds, as water; used mostly with it for a nominative; as, it rains.