[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

rests on the surface of a fluid, as to sustain weight, or to indicate the height of the surface, or mark the place of, something. Specifically: (a) A mass of timber or boards fastened together, and conveyed down a stream by the current; a raft. (b) The hollow, metallic ball of a self-acting faucet, which floats upon the water in a cistern or boiler. (c) The cork or quill used in angling, to support the bait line, and indicate the bite of a fish. (d) Anything used to buoy up whatever is liable to sink; an inflated bag or pillow used by persons learning to swim; a life preserver. This reform bill . . . had been used as a float by the conservative ministry. J. P. Peters. 2. A float board. See Float board (below). 3. (Tempering) Defn: A contrivance for affording a copious stream of water to the heated surface of an object of large bulk, as an anvil or die. Knight. 4. The act of flowing; flux; flow. [Obs.] Bacon. 5. A quantity of earth, eighteen feet square and one foot deep. [Obs.] Mortimer. 6. (Plastering) Defn: The trowel or tool with which the floated coat of plastering is leveled and smoothed. 7. A polishing block used in marble working; a runner. Knight. 8. A single-cut file for smoothing; a tool used by shoemakers for rasping off pegs inside a shoe. 9. A coal cart. [Eng.] Simmonds. 10. The sea; a wave. See Flote, n. Float board, one of the boards fixed radially to the rim of an undershot water wheel or of a steamer's paddle wheel; -- a vane. -- Float case (Naut.), a caisson used for lifting a ship. -- Float copper or gold (Mining), fine particles of metallic copper or of gold suspended in water, and thus liable to be lost. -- Float ore, water-worn particles of ore; fragments of vein material found on the surface, away from the vein outcrop. Raymond. -- Float stone (Arch.), a siliceous stone used to rub stonework or brickwork to a smooth surface. -- Float valve, a valve or cock acted upon by a float. See Float, 1 (b). FLOAT Float, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Floated; p. pr. & vb. n. Floating.] Etym: [OE. flotien, flotten, AS. flotian to float, swim, fr. fleótan. See Float, n.] 1. To rest on the surface of any fluid; to swim; to be buoyed up. The ark no more now floats, but seems on ground. Milton. Three blustering nights, borne by the southern blast, I floated. Dryden. 2. To move quietly or gently on the water, as a raft; to drift along; to move or glide without effort or impulse on the surface of a fluid, or through the air. They stretch their broad plumes and float upon the wind. Pope. There seems a floating whisper on the hills. Byron. FLOAT Float, v. t. 1. To cause to float; to cause to rest or move on the surface of a fluid; as, the tide floated the ship into the harbor. Had floated that bell on the Inchcape rock. Southey. 2. To flood; to overflow; to cover with water. Proud Pactolus floats the fruitful lands. Dryden. 3. (Plastering) Defn: To pass over and level the surface of with a float while the plastering is kept wet. 4. To support and sustain the credit of, as a commercial scheme or a joint-stock company, so as to enable FLOATABLE Float"a*ble, a. Defn: That may be floated. FLOATAGE Float"age (; 48), n. Defn: Same as Flotage. FLOATATION Float*a"tion, n. Defn: See Flotation. FLOATER Float"er, n. 1. One who floats or swims. 2. A float for indicating the height of a liquid surface. FLOATING Float"ing, a. 1. Buoyed upon or in a fluid; a, the floating timbers of a wreck; floating motes in the air. 2. Free or lose from the usual attachment; as, the floating ribs in man and some other animals. 3. Not funded; not fixed, invested, or determined; as, floating capital; a floating debt. Trade was at an end. Floating capital had been withdrawn in great masses from the island. Macaulay. Floating anchor (Naut.), a drag or sea anchor; drag sail. -- Floating battery (Mil.), a battery erected on rafts or the hulls of ships, chiefly for the defense of a coast or the bombardment of a place. -- Floating bridge. (a) A bridge consisting of rafts or timber, with a floor of plank, supported wholly by the water; a bateau bridge. See Bateau. (b) (Mil.) A kind of double bridge, the upper one projecting beyond the lower one, and capable of being moved forward by pulleys; -- used for carrying troops over narrow moats in attacking the outworks of a fort. (c) A kind of ferryboat which is guided and impelled by means of chains which are anchored on each side of a stream, and pass over wheels on the vessel, the wheels being driven by stream power. (d) The landing platform of a ferry dock. -- Floating cartilage (Med.), a cartilage which moves freely in the cavity of a joint, and often interferes with the functions of the latter. -- Floating dam. (a) An anchored dam. (b) A caisson used as a gate for a dry dock. -- Floating derrick, a derrick on a float for river and harbor use, in raising vessels, moving stone for harbor improvements, etc. -- Floating dock. (Naut.) See under Dock. -- Floating harbor, a breakwater of cages or booms, anchored and fastened together, and used as a protection to ships riding at anchor to leeward. Knight. -- Floating heart (Bot.), a small aquatic plant (Limnanthemum lacunosum) whose heart-shaped leaves float on the water of American ponds. -- Floating island, a dish for dessert, consisting of custard with floating masses of whipped cream or white of eggs. -- Floating kidney. (Med.) See Wandering kidney, under Wandering. -- Floating light, a light shown at the masthead of a vessel moored over sunken rocks, shoals, etc., to warn mariners of danger; a light- ship; also, a light erected on a buoy or floating stage. -- Floating liver. (Med.) See Wandering liver, under Wandering. -- Floating pier, a landing stage or pier which rises and falls with the tide. -- Floating ribs (Anat.), the lower or posterior ribs which are not connected with the others in front; in man they are the last two pairs. -- Floating screed (Plastering), a strip of plastering first laid on, to serve as a guide for the thickness of the coat. -- Floating threads (Weaving), threads which span several other threads without being interwoven with them, in a woven fabric. FLOATING Float"ing, n. 1. (Weaving) Defn: Floating threads. See Floating threads, above. 2. The second coat of three-coat plastering. Knight. FLOATING CHARGE; FLOATING LIEN Floating charge, lien, etc. (Law) Defn: A charge, lien, etc., that successively attaches to such assets as a person may have from time to time, leaving him more or less free to dispose of or encumber them as if no such charge or lien existed. FLOATINGLY Float"ing*ly, adv. Defn: In a floating manner. FLOATY Float"y, a. Defn: Swimming on the surface; buoyant; light. Sir W. Raleigh. FLOBERT Flo"bert, n. (Gun.) Defn: A small cartridge designed for target shooting; -- sometimes called ball cap. Flobert rifle, a rifle adapted to the use of floberts. FLOCCILLATION Floc`cil*la"tion, n. Etym: [L. floccus a flock of wool. Cf. Flock of wool.] (Med.) Defn: A delirious picking of bedclothes by a sick person, as if to pick off flocks of wool; carphology; -- an alarming symptom in acute diseases. Dunglison. FLOCCOSE Floccose", a. Etym: [L. floccosus. Cf. 2d Flock, n.] 1. Spotted with small tufts like wool. Wright. 2. (Bot.) Defn: Having tufts of soft hairs, which are often deciduous. FLOCCULAR Floc"cu*lar, a. (Anat.) Defn: Of or pertaining to the flocculus. FLOCCULATE Floc"cu*late, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Flocculated; p. pr. & vb. n. Flocculating.] (Geol.) Defn: To aggregate into small lumps. FLOCCULATE Floc"cu*late, a. (Zoöl.) Defn: Furnished with tufts of curly hairs, as some insects. FLOCCULATION Floc`cu*la"tion, n. (Geol.) Defn: The process by which small particles of fine soils and sediments aggregate into larger lumps. FLOCCULE Floc"cule, n. [See Flocculus.] 1. A detached mass of loosely fibrous structure like a shredded tuft of wool. 2. (Chem.) Specif.: A small particle of an insoluble substance formed in a liquid by the union of smaller particles. FLOCCULENCE Floc"cu*lence, n. Defn: The state of being flocculent. FLOCCULENT Floc"cu*lent, a. Etym: [See Flock of wool.] 1. Clothed with small flocks or flakes; woolly. Gray. 2. (Zoöl.) Defn: Applied to the down of newly hatched or unfledged birds. FLOCCULUS Floc"cu*lus, n.; pl. Flocculi. Etym: [NL., dim. of L. floccus a lock or flock of wool.] (Anat.) Defn: A small lobe in the under surface of the cerebellum, near the middle peduncle; the subpeduncular lobe. FLOCCUS Floc"cus, n.; pl. Flocci. Etym: [L., a flock of wool.] 1. (Zoöl.) (a) The tuft of hair terminating the tail of