[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

name one by one, or by groups, for the purpose of ascertaining the whole number of units in a collection; to number; to enumerate; to compute; to reckon. Who can count the dust of Jacob Num. xxiii. 10. In a journey of forty miles, Avaux counted only three miserable cabins. Macaulay. 2. To place to an account; to ascribe or impute; to consider or esteem as belonging. Abracham believed God, and it was counted unto him for righteousness. Rom. iv. 3. 3. To esteem; to account; to reckon; to think, judge, or consider. I count myself in nothing else so happy As in a soul remembering my good friends. Shak. To count out. (a) To exclude (one) will not particapate or cannot be depended upon. (b) (House of Commons) To declare adjourned, as a sitting of the House, when it is ascertained that a quorum is not present. (c) To prevent the accession of (a person) to office, by a fraudulent return or count of the votes cast; -- said of a candidate really elected. [Colloq.] Syn. -- To calculate; number; reckon; compute; enumerate. See Calculate. COUNT Count, v. i. 1. To number or be counted; to possess value or carry weight; hence, to increase or add to the strength or influence of some party or interest; as, every vote counts; accidents count for nothing. This excellent man . . . counted among the best and wisest of English statesmen. J. A. Symonds. 2. To reckon; to rely; to depend; -- with on or upon. He was brewer to the palace; and it was apprehended that the government counted on his voice. Macaulay. I think it a great error to count upon the genius of a nation as a standing argument in all ages. Swift. 3. To take account or note; -- with of. [Obs.] "No man counts of her beauty." Shak. 4. (Eng. Law) Defn: To plead orally; to argue a matter in court; to recite a count. Burrill. COUNT Count, n. Etym: [F. conte and compte, with different meanings, fr. L. computus a computation, fr. computare. See Count, v. t.] 1. The act of numbering; reckoning; also, the number ascertained by counting. Of blessed saints for to increase the count. Spenser. By this count, I shall be much in years. Shak. 2. An object of interest or account; value; estimation. [Obs.] "All his care and count." Spenser. 3. (Law) Defn: A formal statement of the plaintiff's case in court; in a more technical and correct sense, a particular allegation or charge in a declaration or indictment, separately setting forth the cause of action or prosecution. Wharton. Note: In the old law books, count was used synonymously with declaration. When the plaintiff has but a single cause of action, and makes but one statement of it, that statement is called indifferently count or declaration, most generally, however, the latter. But where the suit embraces several causes, or the plaintiff makes several different statements of the same cause of action, each statement is called a count, and all of them combined, a declaration. Bouvier. Wharton. COUNT Count, n. Etym: [F. conte, fr. L. comes, comitis, associate, companion, one of the imperial court or train, properly, one who goes with another; com- + ire to go, akin to Skr. i to go.] Defn: A nobleman on the continent of Europe, equal in rank to an English earl. Note: Though the tittle Count has never been introduced into Britain, the wives of Earls have, from the earliest period of its history, been designated as Countesses. Brande & C. Count palatine. (a) Formerly, the proprietor of a county who possessed royal prerogatives within his county, as did the Earl of Chester, the Bishop of Durham, and the Duke of Lancaster. [Eng.] See County palatine, under County. (b) Originally, a high judicial officer of the German emperors; afterward, the holder of a fief, to whom was granted the right to exercise certain imperial powers within his own domains. [Germany] COUNTABLE Count"a*ble (--b'l), a. Defn: Capable of being numbered. COUNTENANCE Coun"te*nance (koun"t-nans), n. Etym: [OE. contenance, countenaunce, demeanor, composure, F. contenance demeanor, fr. L. continentia continence, LL. also, demeanor, fr. L. continere to hold together, repress, contain. See Contain, and cf. Continence.] 1. Appearance or expression of the face; look; aspect; mien. So spake the Son, and into terror changed His countenance. Milton. 2. The face; the features. In countenance somewhat doth resemble you. Shak. 3. Approving or encouraging aspect of face; hence, favor, good will, support; aid; encouragement. Thou hast made him . . . glad with thy countenance. Ps. xxi. 6. This is the magistrate's peculiar province, to give countenance to piety and virtue, and to rebuke vice. Atterbury. 4. Superficial appearance; show; pretense. [Obs.] The election being done, he made countenance of great discontent thereat. Ascham. In countenance, in an assured condition or aspect; free from shame or dismay. "It puts the learned in countenance, and gives them a place among the fashionable part of mankind." Addison. -- Out of countenance, not bold or assured; confounded; abashed. "Their best friends were out of countenance, because they found that the imputations . . . were well grounded." Clarendon. -- To keep the countenance, to preserve a composed or natural look, undisturbed by passion or emotion. Swift. COUNTENANCE Coun"te*nance (koun"t-nans), v. t. [imp. & p. p. Countenanced (- nanst); p. pr. & vb. n. Countenancing.] 1. To encourage; to favor; to approve; to aid; to abet. This conceit, though countenanced by learned men, is not made out either by experience or reason. Sir T. Browne. Error supports custom, custom countenances error. Milton. 2. To make a show of; to pretend. [Obs.] Which to these ladies love did countenance. Spenser. COUNTENANCER Coun"te*nan*cer (-nan-sr), n. Defn: One who countenances, favors, or supports. COUNTER Coun"ter (koun"tr-). Note: [See Counter, adv. ] Defn: A prefix meaning contrary, opposite, in opposition; as, counteract, counterbalance, countercheck. See Counter, adv. & a. COUNTER Count"er (koun"tr), n. Etym: [OE. countere, countour, a counter (in sense 1), OF. contere, conteor, fr. conter to count. See Count, v. t. ] 1. One who counts, or reckons up; a calculator; a reckoner. 2. A piece of metal, ivory, wood, or bone, used in reckoning, in keeping account of games, etc. The old gods of our own race whose names . . . serve as counters reckon the days of the week. E. B. Tylor. What comes the wool to . . . I can not do it witthout counters. Shak. 3. Money; coin; -- used in contempt. [Obs.] To lock such rascal counters from his friends. Shak. 4. A prison; either of two prisons formerly in London. Anne Aysavugh . . . imprisoned in the Counter. Fuller. 5. A telltale; a contrivance attached to an engine, printing press, or other machine, for the purpose of counting the revolutions or the pulsations. Knight. COUNTER Coun"ter, n. Etym: [OE. countour, OF. contouer, comptouer, F. comptoir, LL. computatorium, prop., a computing place, place of accounts, fr. L. computare. See Count, v. t.] Defn: A table or board on which money is counted and over which business is transacted; a long, narrow table or bench, on which goods are laid for examination by purchasers, or on which they are weighed or measured. COUNTER Coun"ter, adv. Etym: [F. contre, fr. L. contra against. Cf. Contra-.] 1. Contrary; in opposition; in an opposite direction; contrariwise; - - used chiefly with run or go. Running counter to all the rules of virtue. Locks. 2. In the wrong way; contrary to the right course; as, a hound that runs counter. This is counter, you false Danish dogs! Shak. 3. At or against the front or face. [R.] Which [darts] they never throw counter, but at the back of the flier. Sandys. COUNTER Coun"ter, a. Defn: Contrary; opposite; contrasted; opposed; adverse; antagonistic; as, a counter current; a counter revolution; a counter poison; a counter agent; counter fugue. "Innumerable facts attesting the counter principle." I. Taylor. Counter approach (Fort.), a trench or work pushed forward from defensive works to meet the approaches of besiegers. See Approach. -- Counter bond (Law), in old practice, a bond to secure one who has given bond for another. -- Counter brace. See Counter brace, in Vocabulary. -- Counter deed (Law), a secret writing which destroys, invalidates, or alters, a public deed. -- Counter distinction, contradistinction. [Obs.] -- Counter drain, a drain at the foot of the embankment of a canal or watercourse, for carrying off the water that may soak through. -- Counter extension (Surg.), the fixation of the upper part of a limb, while extension is practiced on the lower part, as in cases of luxation or fracture. -- Counter fissure (Surg.) Same as Contrafissure. -- Counter indication. (Med.) Same as Contraindication. -- Counter irritant (Med.), an irritant to produce a blister, a pustular eruption, or other irritation in some part of the body, in order to relieve an existing irritation in some other part. "Counter irritants are