[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

as supervisor, inspector, ruler, or commander. (b) To assign; to transfer; to convey. -- To set right, to correct; to put in order. -- To set sail. (Naut.) See under Sail, n. -- To set store by, to consider valuable. -- To set the fashion, to determine what shall be the fashion; to establish the mode. -- To set the teeth on edge, to affect the teeth with a disagreeable sensation, as when acids are brought in contact with them. -- To set the watch (Naut.), to place the starboard or port watch on duty. -- To set to, to attach to; to affix to. "He . . . hath set to his seal that God is true." John iii. 33. -- To set up. (a) To erect; to raise; to elevate; as, to set up a building, or a machine; to set up a post, a wall, a pillar. (b) Hence, to exalt; to put in power. "I will . . . set up the throne of David over Israel." 2 Sam. iii. 10. (c) To begin, as a new institution; to institute; to establish; to found; as, to set up a manufactory; to set up a school. (d) To enable to commence a new business; as, to set up a son in trade. (e) To place in view; as, to set up a mark. (f) To raise; to utter loudly; as, to set up the voice. I'll set up such a note as she shall hear. Dryden. (g) To advance; to propose as truth or for reception; as, to set up a new opinion or doctrine. T. Burnet. (h) To raise from depression, or to a sufficient fortune; as, this good fortune quite set him up. (i) To intoxicate. [Slang] (j) (Print.) To put in type; as, to set up copy; to arrange in words, lines, etc., ready for printing; as, to set up type. -- To set up the rigging (Naut.), to make it taut by means of tackles. R. H. Dana, Jr. Syn. -- See Put. SET Set, v. i. 1. To pass below the horizon; to go down; to decline; to sink out of sight; to come to an end. Ere the weary sun set in the west. Shak. Thus this century sets with little mirth, and the next is likely to arise with more mourning. Fuller. 2. To fit music to words. [Obs.] Shak. 3. To place plants or shoots in the ground; to plant. "To sow dry, and set wet." Old Proverb. 4. To be fixed for growth; to strike root; to begin to germinate or form; as, cuttings set well; the fruit has set well (i. e., not blasted in the blossom). 5. To become fixed or rigid; to be fastened. A gathering and serring of the spirits together to resist, maketh the teeth to set hard one against another. Bacon. 6. To congeal; to concrete; to solidify. That fluid substance in a few minutes begins to set. Boyle. 7. To have a certain direction in motion; to flow; to move on; to tend; as, the current sets to the north; the tide sets to the windward. 8. To begin to move; to go out or forth; to start; -- now followed by out. The king is set from London. Shak. 9. To indicate the position of game; -- said of a dog; as, the dog sets well; also, to hunt game by the aid of a setter. 10. To apply one's self; to undertake earnestly; -- now followed by out. If he sets industriously and sincerely to perform the commands of Christ, he can have no ground of doubting but it shall prove successful to him. Hammond. 11. To fit or suit one; to sit; as, the coat sets well. Note: [Colloquially used, but improperly, for sit.] Note: The use of the verb set for sit in such expressions as, the hen is setting on thirteen eggs; a setting hen, etc., although colloquially common, and sometimes tolerated in serious writing, is not to be approved. To set about, to commence; to begin. -- To set forward, to move or march; to begin to march; to advance. -- To set forth, to begin a journey. -- To set in. (a) To begin; to enter upon a particular state; as, winter set in early. (b) To settle one's self; to become established. "When the weather was set in to be very bad." Addyson. (c) To flow toward the shore; -- said of the tide. -- To set off. (a) To enter upon a journey; to start. (b) (Typog.) To deface or soil the next sheet; -- said of the ink on a freshly printed sheet, when another sheet comes in contract with it before it has had time to dry. -- To set on or upon. (a) To begin, as a journey or enterprise; to set about. He that would seriously set upon the search of truth. Locke. (b) To assault; to make an attack. Bacon. Cassio hath here been set on in the dark. Shak. -- To set out, to begin a journey or course; as, to set out for London, or from London; to set out in business;to set out in life or the world. -- To set to, to apply one's self to. -- To set up. (a) To begin business or a scheme of life; as, to set up in trade; to set up for one's self. (b) To profess openly; to make pretensions. Those men who set up for mortality without regard to religion, are generally but virtuous in part. Swift. SET Set, a. 1. Fixed in position; immovable; rigid; as, a set line; a set countenance. 2. Firm; unchanging; obstinate; as, set opinions or prejudices. 3. Regular; uniform; formal; as, a set discourse; a set battle. "The set phrase of peace." Shak. 4. Established; prescribed; as, set forms of prayer. 5. Adjusted; arranged; formed; adapted. Set hammer. (a) A hammer the head of which is not tightly fastened upon the handle, but may be reversed. Knight. (b) A hammer with a concave face which forms a die for shaping anything, as the end of a bolt, rivet, etc. -- Set line, a line to which a number of baited hooks are attached, and which, supported by floats and properly secured, may be left unguarded during the absence of the fisherman. -- Set nut, a jam nut or lock nut. See under Nut. -- Set screw (Mach.), a screw, sometimes cupped or printed at one end, and screwed through one part, as of a machine, tightly upon another part, to prevent the one from slipping upon the other. -- Set speech, a speech carefully prepared before it is delivered in public; a formal or methodical speech. SET Set, n. 1. The act of setting, as of the sun or other heavenly body; descent; hence, the close; termination. "Locking at the set of day." Tennyson. The weary sun hath made a golden set. Shak. 2. That which is set, placed, or fixed. Specifically: -- (a) A young plant for growth; as, a set of white thorn. (b) That which is staked; a wager; a venture; a stake; hence, a game at venture. [Obs. or R.] We will in France, by God's grace, play a set Shall strike his father's crown into the hazard. Shak. That was but civil war, an equal set. Dryden. (c) (Mech.) Defn: Permanent change of figure in consequence of excessive strain, as from compression, tension, bending, twisting, etc.; as, the set of a spring. (d) A kind of punch used for bending, indenting, or giving shape to, metal; as, a saw set. (e) (Pile Driving) Defn: A piece placed temporarily upon the head of a pile when the latter cannot be reached by the weight, or hammer, except by means of such an intervening piece. [Often incorrectly written sett.] (f) (Carp.) Defn: A short steel spike used for driving the head of a nail below the surface. 3. Etym: [Perhaps due to confusion with sect, sept.] Defn: A number of things of the same kind, ordinarily used or classed together; a collection of articles which naturally complement each other, and usually go together; an assortment; a suit; as, a set of chairs, of china, of surgical or mathematical instruments, of books, etc. [In this sense, sometimes incorrectly written sett.] 4. A number of persons associated by custom, office, common opinion, quality, or the like; a division; a group; a clique. "Others of our set." Tennyson. This falls into different divisions, or sets, of nations connected under particular religions. R. P. Ward. 5. Direction or course; as, the set of the wind, or of a current. 6. In dancing, the number of persons necessary to execute a quadrille; also, the series of figures or movements executed. 7. The deflection of a tooth, or of the teeth, of a saw, which causes the the saw to cut a kerf, or make an opening, wider than the blade.