[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

smoke forth threw. Spenser. 3. An artificial passage or archway for conducting canals or railroads under elevated ground, for the formation of roads under rivers or canals, and the construction of sewers, drains, and the like. 4. (Mining) Defn: A level passage driven across the measures, or at right angles to veins which it is desired to reach; -- distinguished from the drift, or gangway, which is led along the vein when reached by the tunnel. Tunnel head (Metal.), the top of a smelting furnace where the materials are put in. -- Tunnel kiln, a limekiln in which coal is burned, as distinguished from a flame kiln, in which wood or peat is used. -- Tunnel net, a net with a wide mouth at one end and narrow at the other. -- Tunnel pit, Tunnel shaft, a pit or shaft sunk from the top of the ground to the level of a tunnel, for drawing up the earth and stones, for ventilation, lighting, and the like. TUNNEL Tun"nel, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Tunneled ( or Tunnelled; p. pr. & vb. n. Tunneling or Tunnelling.] 1. To form into a tunnel, or funnel, or to form like a tunnel; as, to tunnel fibrous plants into nests. Derham. 2 2 Defn: To catch in a tunnel net. 3. To make an opening, or a passageway, through or under; as, to tunnel a mountain; to tunnel a river. TUNNEL STERN Tun"nel stern. Defn: A design of motor-boat stern, for use in shallow waters, in which the propeller is housed in a tunnel and does not extend below the greatest draft. TUNNY Tun"ny, n.; pl. Tunnies. Etym: [L. thunnus, thynnus, Gr. tonno, F. & Pr. thon.] (Zoöl.) Defn: Any one of several species of large oceanic fishes belonging to the Mackerel family, especially the common or great tunny (Orcynus or Albacora thynnus) native of the Mediterranean Sea and the Atlantic Ocean. It sometimes weighs a thousand pounds or more, and is extensively caught in the Mediterranean. On the American coast it is called horse mackerel. See Illust. of Horse mackerel, under Horse. [Written also thynny.] Note: The little tunny (Gymnosarda alletterata) of the Mediterranean and North Atlantic, and the long-finned tunny, or albicore (see Albicore), are related species of smaller size. TUP Tup, v. t. & i. Etym: [Probably akin to top summit, head.] 1. To butt, as a ram does. [Prov. Eng.] 2. To cover; -- said of a ram. Shak. TUP Tup, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: A ram. TUPAI Tu*pai", n. (Zoöl.) Defn: Any one of the tupaiids. TUPAIID Tu*pai"id, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: Any one of several species of East Indian and Asiatic insectivores of the family Tupaiidæ, somewhat resembling squirrels in size and arboreal habits. The nose is long and pointed. TUPELO Tu"pe*lo, n. Etym: [Tupelo, or tupebo, the native American Indian name.] (Bot.) Defn: A North American tree (Nyssa multiflora) of the Dogwood family, having brilliant, glossy foliage and acid red berries. The wood is crossgrained and very difficult to split. Called also black gum, sour gum, and pepperidge. Largo tupelo, or Tupelo gum (Bot.), an American tree (Nyssa uniflora) with softer wood than the tupelo. -- Sour tupelo (Bot.), the Ogeechee lime. TUPI Tu"pi, n. Defn: An Indian of the tribe from which the Tupian stock takes its name, dwelling, at the advent of the Portuguese, about the mouth of the Amazon. Also, their language, which is the basis of the Indian trade language of the Amazon. TUPIAN Tu"pi*an, a. Defn: Designating, or pert. to, a linguistic stock of South American Indians comprising the most important Brazilian tribes. Agriculture, pottery, and stone working were practiced by them at the time of the conquest. The Tupi and the Guarani were originally the most powerful of the stock, which is hence also called Tupi-Guaranian. TUPMAN Tup"man, n.; pl. Tupmen (. Defn: A man who breeds, or deals in tups. [Prov. Eng.] TUQUE Tuque, n. [Canadian F. See Toque.] Defn: A kind of warm cap winter wear, made from a knit bag with closed tapered ends by pushing one end within the other, thus making a conical cap of double thickness. Picturesque fellow with tuques, red sashes, and fur coats. F. Remington. TUR Tur, n. Etym: [Pol.] (Zoöl.) Defn: The urus. TURACIN Tu"ra*cin, n. (Physiol.) (Chem.) Defn: A red or crimson pigment obtained from certain feathers of several species of turacou; whence the name. It contains nearly six per cent of copper. TURACOU Tu*ra"cou, n. Etym: [Cf. F. touraco.] (Zoöl.) Defn: Any one of several species of plantain eaters of the genus Turacus, native of Africa. They are remarkable for the peculiar green and red pigments found in their feathers. [Written also touraco, and touracou.] TURACOVERDIN Tu*ra`co*ver"din, n. Etym: [See Turacou, and Verdant.] (Physiol.) (Chem.) Defn: A green pigment found in the feathers of the turacou. See Turacin. TURANIAN Tu*ra"ni*an, a. Etym: [From Tur, the name, in Persian legendary history, of one of the three brothers from whom sprang the races of mankind.] Defn: Of, pertaining to, or designating, an extensive family of languages of simple structure and low grade (called also Altaic, Ural-Altaic, and Scythian), spoken in the northern parts of Europe and Asia and Central Asia; of pertaining to, or designating, the people who speak these languages. TURANIAN Tu*ra"ni*an, n. Defn: One of the Turanians. TURANIANS Tu*ra"ni*ans, n. pl. (Ethnol.) (a) An extensive division of mankind including the Mongols and allied races of Asia, together with the Malays and Polynesians. (b) A group of races or tribes inhabiting Asia and closely related to the Mongols. TURATT Tu"ratt, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: The hare kangaroo. TURBAN Tur"ban, n. Etym: [OE. turband, turbant, tolibant, F. turban, It. turbante, Turk. tulbend, dulbend, fr. Per. dulband. Cf. Tulip.] 1. A headdress worn by men in the Levant and by most Mohammedans of the male sex, consisting of a cap, and a sash, scarf, or shawl, usually of cotton or linen, wound about the cap, and sometimes hanging down the neck. 2. A kind of headdress worn by women. 3. (Zoöl.) Defn: The whole set of whorls of a spiral shell. TURBAND Tur"band, n. Defn: A turban. Balfour (Cyc. of Ind.). TURBANED Tur"baned, a. Defn: Wearing a turban. " A malignant and a turbaned Turk." Shak. TURBAN-SHELL Tur"ban-shell`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: A sea urchin when deprived of its spines; -- popularly so called from a fancied resemblance to a turban. TURBANT Tur"bant, n. Defn: A turban. [Obs.] Milton. I see the Turk nodding with his turbant. Howell. TURBAN-TOP Tur"ban-top`, n. (Bot.) Defn: A kind of fungus with an irregularly wrinkled, somewhat globular pileus (Helvella, or Gyromitra, esculenta.). TURBARY Tur"ba*ry, n.; pl. Turbaries. Etym: [LL. turbaria a place for digging peat, from turba peat. See Turf.] (Eng. Law) Defn: A right of digging turf on another man's land; also, the ground where turf is dug. TURBELLARIA Tur`bel*la"ri*a, n.; pl. Etym: [NL., dim. fr. L. turbo a whirling.] (Zoöl.) Defn: An extensive group of worms which have the body covered externally with vibrating cilia. It includes the Rhabdocoela and Dendrocoela. Formerly, the nemerteans were also included in this group. TURBELLARIAN Tur`bel*la"ri*an, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: One of the Turbellaria. Also used adjectively. TURBETH Tur"beth, n. Defn: See Turpeth. TURBID Tur"bid, a. Etym: [L. turbidus, from turba tumult, disturbance, akin to turbare to disturb. See Trouble, and cf. Disturb, Perturb.] 1. Having the lees or sediment disturbed; roiled; muddy; thick; not clear; -- used of liquids of any kind; as, turbid water; turbid wine. On that strong, turbid water, a small boat, Guided by one weak hand, was seen to float. Whittier. 2. Disturbed; confused; disordered. " Such turbid intervals that use to attend close prisoners." Howell. TURBIDITY Tur*bid"i*ty, n. Defn: Turbidness. TURBIDLY Tur"bid*ly, adv. 1. In a turbid manner; with muddiness or confusion. 2. Proudly; haughtily. [A Latinism. R.] One of great merit turbidly resents them. Young. TURBIDNESS Tur"bid*ness, n. Defn: The quality or state of being turbid; muddiness; foulness. TURBILLION Tur*bil"lion, n. Etym: [F. tourbillon, from L. turbo a whirl.] Defn: A whirl; a vortex. Spectator. TURBINACEOUS Tur`bi*na"ceous, a. Etym: [See Turbary.] Defn: Of or pertaining to peat, or turf; of the nature of peat, or turf; peaty; turfy. Sir. W. Scott. TURBINAL Tur"bi*nal, a. Etym: [L. turbo, turben, -inis, a top, whirl.] (Anat.) Defn: Rolled in a spiral; scroll-like; turbinate; -- applied to the thin, plicated, bony or cartilaginous plates which support the olfactory and mucous membranes of the nasal chambers. Note: There are usually several of these plates in each nasal chamber. The upper ones, connected directly with the ethmoid bone, are called ethmoturbinals, and the lower, connected with the maxillæ, maxillo-turbinals. Incurved portions of the wall of the nasal chamber are sometimes called pseudoturbinals, to distinguish them from the true turbinals which are free outgrowths into the chambers. TURBINAL Tur"bi*nal, n. (Anat.) Defn: A turbinal bone or cartilage. TURBINATE Tur"bi*nate, v. i. Defn: To revolve or spin like a top; to whirl. [R.] TURBINATE; TURBINATED Tur"bi*nate, Tur"bi*na`ted, a. Etym: [L. turbinatus, turbo, turben, -