[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

about an inch in diameter, filled with powder and used in firing mines. Farrow. -- Powder hoy (Naut.), a vessel specially fitted to carry powder for the supply of war ships. They are usually painted red and carry a red flag. -- Powder magazine, or Powder room. See Magazine, 2. -- Powder mine, a mine exploded by gunpowder. See Mine. -- Powder monkey (Naut.), a boy formerly employed on war vessels to carry powder; a powder boy. -- Powder post. See Dry rot, under Dry. -- Powder puff. See Puff, n. POWDER Pow"der, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Powdered; p. pr. & vb. n. Powdering.] Etym: [F. poudrer.] 1. To reduce to fine particles; to pound, grind, or rub into a powder; to comminute; to pulverize; to triturate. 2. To sprinkle with powder, or as with powder; to be sprinkle; as, to powder the hair. A circling zone thou seest Powdered with stars. Milton. 3. To sprinkle with salt; to corn, as meat. [Obs.] POWDER Pow"der, v. i. 1. To be reduced to powder; to become like powder; as, some salts powder easily. 2. To use powder on the hair or skin; as, she paints and powders. POWDERED Pow"dered, a. 1. Reduced to a powder; sprinkled with, or as with, powder. 2. Sprinkled with salt; salted; corned. [Obs.] Powdered beef, pickled meats. Harvey. 3. (Her.) Defn: Same as Semé. Walpole. POWDERFLASK Pow"der*flask`, n. Defn: A flask in which gunpowder is carried, having a charging tube at the end. POWDERHORN Pow"der*horn`, n. Defn: A horn in which gunpowder is carried. POWDERING Pow"der*ing, Defn: a. & n. from Powder, v. t. Powdering tub. (a) A tub or vessel in which meat is corned or salted. (b) A heated tub in which an infected lecher was placed for cure. [Obs.] Shak. POWDERMILL Pow"der*mill`, n. Defn: A mill in which gunpowder is made. POWDER-POSTED Pow"der-post`ed, a. Defn: Affected with dry rot; reduced to dust by rot. See Dry rot, under Dry. [U.S.] POWDERY Pow"der*y, a. 1. Easily crumbling to pieces; friable; loose; as, a powdery spar. 2. Sprinkled or covered with powder; dusty; as, the powdery bloom on plums. 3. Resembling powder; consisting of powder. "The powdery snow." Wordsworth. POWDIKE Pow"dike, n. Etym: [Scot. pow, pou, a pool, a watery or marshy place, fr. E. pool.] Defn: A dike a marsh or fen. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. POWDRY Pow"dry, a. Defn: See Powdery. POWER Pow"er, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: Same as Poor, the fish. POWER Pow"er, n. Etym: [OE. pouer, poer, OF. poeir, pooir, F. pouvoir, n. & v., fr. LL. potere, for L. posse, potesse, to be able, to have power. See Possible, Potent, and cf. Posse comitatus.] 1. Ability to act, regarded as latent or inherent; the faculty of doing or performing something; capacity for action or performance; capability of producing an effect, whether physical or moral: potency; might; as, a man of great power; the power of capillary attraction; money gives power. "One next himself in power, and next in crime." Milton. 2. Ability, regarded as put forth or exerted; strength, force, or energy in action; as, the power of steam in moving an engine; the power of truth, or of argument, in producing conviction; the power of enthusiasm. "The power of fancy." Shak. 3. Capacity of undergoing or suffering; fitness to be acted upon; susceptibility; -- called also passive power; as, great power of endurance. Power, then, is active and passive; faculty is active power or capacity; capacity is passive power. Sir W. Hamilton. 4. The exercise of a faculty; the employment of strength; the exercise of any kind of control; influence; dominion; sway; command; government. Power is no blessing in itself but when it is employed to protect the innocent. Swift. 5. The agent exercising an ability to act; an individual invested with authority; an institution, or government, which exercises control; as, the great powers of Europe; hence, often, a superhuman agent; a spirit; a divinity. "The powers of darkness." Milton. And the powers of the heavens shall be shaken. Matt. xxiv. 29. 6. A military or naval force; an army or navy; a great host. Spenser. Never such a power . . . Was levied in the body of a land. Shak. 7. A large quantity; a great number; as, a power o. [Colloq.] Richardson. 8. (Mech.) (a) The rate at which mechanical energy is exerted or mechanical work performed, as by an engine or other machine, or an animal, working continuously; as, an engine of twenty horse power. Note: The English unit of power used most commonly is the horse power. See Horse power. (b) A mechanical agent; that from which useful mechanical energy is derived; as, water power; steam power; hand power, etc. (c) Applied force; force producing motion or pressure; as, the power applied at one and of a lever to lift a weight at the other end. Note: This use in mechanics, of power as a synonym for force, is improper and is becoming obsolete. (d) A machine acted upon by an animal, and serving as a motor to drive other machinery; as, a dog power. Note: Power is used adjectively, denoting, driven, or adapted to be driven, by machinery, and not actuated directly by the hand or foot; as, a power lathe; a power loom; a power press. 9. (Math.) Defn: The product arising from the multiplication of a number into itself; as, a square is the second power, and a cube is third power, of a number. 10. ( (Metaph.) Defn: Mental or moral ability to act; one of the faculties which are possessed by the mind or soul; as, the power of thinking, reasoning, judging, willing, fearing, hoping, etc. I. Watts. The guiltiness of my mind, the sudden surprise of my powers, drove the grossness . . . into a received belief. Shak. 11. (Optics) Defn: The degree to which a lens, mirror, or any optical instrument, magnifies; in the telescope, and usually in the microscope, the number of times it multiplies, or augments, the apparent diameter of an object; sometimes, in microscopes, the number of times it multiplies the apparent surface. 12. (Law) Defn: An authority enabling a person to dispose of an interest vested either in himself or in another person; ownership by appointment. Wharton. 13. Hence, vested authority to act in a given case; as, the business was referred to a committee with power. Note: Power may be predicated of inanimate agents, like the winds and waves, electricity and magnetism, gravitation, etc., or of animal and intelligent beings; and when predicated of these beings, it may indicate physical, mental, or moral ability or capacity. Mechanical powers. See under Mechanical. -- Power loom, or Power press. See Def. 8 (d), note. -- Power of attorney. See under Attorney. -- Power of a point (relative to a given curve) (Geom.), the result of substituting the coördinates of any point in that expression which being put equal to zero forms the equation of the curve; as, x2 + y2 - 100 is the power of the point x, y, relative to the circle x2 + y2 - 100 = 0. POWERABLE Pow"er*a*ble, a. 1. Capable of being effected or accomplished by the application of power; possible. [R.] J. Young. 2. Capable of exerting power; powerful. Camden. POWERFUL Pow"er*ful, a. 1. Full of power; capable of producing great effects of any kind; potent; mighty; efficacious; intense; as, a powerful man or beast; a powerful engine; a powerful argument; a powerful light; a powerful vessel. The powerful grace that lies In herbs, plants, stones, and their true qualities. Shak. 2. (Mining) Defn: Large; capacious; -- said of veins of ore. Syn. -- Mighty; strong; potent; forcible; efficacious; energetic; intense. -- Pow"er*ful*ly, adv. -- Pow"er*ful*ness, n. POWERLESS Pow"er*less, a. Defn: Destitute of power, force, or energy; weak; impotent; not able to produce any effect. -- Pow"er*less*ly, adv. -- Pow"er*less*ness, n. POWLDRON Powl"dron, n. Etym: [OF. espauleron, from espaule shoulder, F. épaule.] Defn: Same as Pauldron. POWP Powp, v. i. Defn: See Poop, v. i. [Obs.] Chaucer. POWTER Pow"ter, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: See Pouter. POWWOW Pow"wow`, n. 1. A priest, or conjurer, among the North American Indians. Be it sagamore, sachem, or powwow. Longfellow. 2. Conjuration attended with great noise and confusion, and often with feasting, dancing, etc., performed by Indians for the cure of diseases, to procure success in hunting or in war, and for other purposes. 3. Hence: Any assembly characterized by noise and confusion; a noisy frolic or gathering. [Colloq. U. S.] POWWOW Pow"wow`, v. i. 1. To use conjuration, with noise and confusion, for the cure of disease, etc., as among the North American Indians. 2. Hence: To hold a noisy, disorderly meeting. [Colloq. U. S.] POX Pox, n. Etym: [For pocks, OE. pokkes. See Pock. It is plural in form but is used as a singular.] (Med.) Defn: Strictly, a disease by pustules or eruptions of any kind, but chiefly or wholly restricted to three or four diseases, -- the smallpox,