[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #30429]

the _Age of Fishes and Fern Forests_, and is made up of the Devonian, Coal, and Permian Period. THE THIRD EPOCH.--_The Mesolithic_, or Secondary Epoch, constitutes the _Age of Reptiles and Pine Forests, Coniferæ_, and is made up of the Triassic, Jurassic, and Chalk Period. THE FOURTH EPOCH.--_The Cænolithic_, or Tertiary Epoch, constitutes the _Age of Mammals and Leaf Forests_, and is made up of the Eocene, Miocene, and Phocene Period. THE FIFTH EPOCH.--The _Anthropolithic_, or Quaternary Epoch, constitutes the _Age of Man and Cultivated Forests,_ and is made up of the Glacial and Postglacial Period, and the Period of Culture. During the archilithic epoch the inhabitants of our planet, as has been already stated, consisted of skull-less animals, or aquatic forms. No remains of terrestrial animals or plants, dated from this period, have as yet been found. The archilithic period was longer than the whole long period between the close of the archilithic and the present time; for if the total thickness of all sedimentary strata be estimated as about one hundred and thirty thousand feet, then seventy thousand feet belong to this epoch. It was during this epoch that the little mass of protoplasm, which has been so often spoken of, came into existence. It has been stated above that palæontology is quite deficient. This is not only true of the record, but of the lack as yet of sufficient investigations. The greatest fields of investigation in this department have never been explored. The whole of the petrifactions accurately known do not probably amount to a hundredth part of those which, by more elaborate explorations, are yet to be discovered. The most ancient of all distinctly preserved petrifactions is the Eozoon Canadense, which was found in the lowest Laurentian strata in the Ottawa formation. Probably no discovery in palæontology ranks higher than the discovery of the descendants of the horse. The horse, for example, as far as his limbs and teeth go, differs far more from extant graminivora than man differs from the ape. Had not fossil ungulates been found, which demonstrate the common origin of the horse with didactyles and multidactyles, some would have deemed the horse a special miraculous creation. But now the links are complete, and the descent of the horse is found to follow exactly what the doctrine of evolution could have predicted. ONTOGENY. It has been stated that the palæontological record is quite incomplete, owing to many facts, some of which have been mentioned; fortunately, the history of the development of the organic individual, or ontogeny, comes in to fill up many deficiencies. Ontogeny is a repetition of the principal forms through which the respective individuals have passed from the beginning of their tribe, and its great advantage is that it reveals a field of information which it was impossible for the rocks to retain; for the petrification of the ancient ancestors of all the different animal and vegetable species, which were soft, tender bodies, was not possible. The annexed plate illustrates the dog, rabbit, and man in their first stages of development. Illustrations of a fish, an amphibious animal, a reptile, a bird, or any mammal, could also be given; for all vertebrate animals of the most different classes, in their early stages of development, cannot be distinguished, and the nearer the animal approaches man in the ascending scale, the longer does this similarity continue to exist--when reptiles and birds are distinctly different from mammals, the dog and the man are almost identical. The gill-arches of the fish exist in man, in dogs, in fowls, in reptiles, and in other vertebrate animals during the first stages of their development. Man also possesses, in his first stages, a real tail, as well as his nearest kindred--the tailless apes (orang-outang, chimpanzee, gorilla), and vertebrate animals in general. The tail, as has been stated, man still retains, though hidden as a rudiment. [Illustration: FIG. I.--Human Embryo.--_Ecker._] [Illustration: FIG. II.--Embryo of Dog.--_Bischoff._] [Illustration: FIG. III.--Dog Embryo.--_Huxley._] [Illustration: FIGS. IV, V, and VI.--Embryo of Rabbit in three stages of development.--_Haeckel._] [Illustration: FIGS. VII, VIII, and IX.--Embryo of Man in three stages of development.--_Haeckel._ _v_, fore brain; _z_, twix brain; _m_, middle brain; _h_, hind brain; _n_, after brain; _r_, spinal marrow; _e_, nose; _a_, eye; _o_, ear; _k_, gillarches; _g_, heart; _w_, vertebral column; _f_, fore limbs; _b_, hind limbs; _s_, tail.] "Man presents in his earliest stages of embryonic growth, a skeleton of cartilage, like that of the lamprey; also, five origins of the aorta and five slits on the neck, like the _lamprey_ and the _shark_. Later, he has but four aortic origins, and a heart now divided into two chambers, like _bony fishes_; the optic lobes of his brain also having a very fish-like predominance in size. Three chambers of the heart and three aortic origins follow, presenting a condition permanent in the _batrachia_; then two origins with enlarged hemispheres of the brain, as in _reptiles_. Four heart chambers and one aortic root on each side, with slight development of the cerebellum, agree with the characters of the _crocodiles_, and immediately present the special mammalian conditions, single aortic root, and the full development of the cerebellum. Later comes that of the cerebrum, also in its higher mammalian or human traits." At no time in the development of the egg, save at the start, do the embryos of the various vertebra assume the _exact_ or _entire_ characteristics of one another, but they assimilate so closely that it requires the eye of the expert to distinguish them; and, as has already been stated, the more closely an animal resembles another, the longer and the more intimately do their embryos resemble one another; so that, for example, the embryo of the snake and of a lizard remain like one another longer than do those of a snake and of a bird; and the embryo of a dog and of a cat remain like one another for a far longer period than do those of a dog and a bird, or a dog and an opossum, or even those of a dog and a monkey. Surely it must be admitted that the short brief history given by the development of the egg, is far more wonderful than phylogeny or the long and slow history of the development of the tribe, which has taken thousands of years. Compare this time with the time required for the development of the smallest mammals--the harvest mice which develops in three weeks, or the smallest of all birds, the humming-bird, which quits the egg on the twelfth day, or with man who passes through the whole course of his development in forty weeks, or with the rhinoceros who requires 1-1/2 years, or the elephant who requires ninety weeks. How insignificant are these various periods to the long period originally required; yet in these short periods the whole phylogeny is run through in the ontogeny or the history of the development of the egg. THE ATTRIBUTES OF MAN. We must now consider briefly some of the attributes of man, and see if he really possesses attributes which are in no inferior degree possessed by animals. Before proceeding directly to the consideration of the attributes of man, it will be best to show the correlation that exists between what are called man's vital forces and the physical forces of nature. To do this let us choose three forms of its manifestation: these shall be heat evolved within the body; muscular energy or motion; and lastly, nervous energy or that form of force which, on the one hand, stimulates a muscle to contract, and on the other appears in forms called mental. It will not take any extensive argument to demonstrate that the heat of the body does not differ from heat from any other source. It is known that the food taken into the body contains potential energy, which is capable of being in part converted into actual heat by oxidation; and since we know that the food taken into the body is oxidized by the oxygen of the air supplied by the lungs, the heat of the body must be due to the slow oxidation of the carbon, perhaps also hydrogen, sulphur, and phosphorus in the food. Now since this so-called vital heat is developed by oxidation, is recognized by the same tests and applied to the same purposes as any other heat, it is as truly correlated to the other forces as when it has a purely physical origin. The amoeboid activity of a white blood corpuscle is stimulated within certain limits by heat. Hatching of eggs and the germination of seeds may be likewise hastened or retarded by access or deprivation of heat. It was considerations such as these which led to the doctrine of correlation of the vital and physical forces. With respect to the muscular force exerted by an animal, it was supposed that it was created by the animal. Dr. Frankland[36] says to this: "An animal can no more