[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #33642]

I read enough to know big words: just some rare type of blood." "Nothing like this ever happened before," Julia said, still watching the finger suspiciously. "I've never heard of anything like it." _Hello._ "Hello," she answered. "What did you say?" the young man asked. "I said, 'Hello'." "Hello." "Didn't you say hello a moment ago?" Julia said, looking at him with an annoyed little frown on her face. "No." "No." "That's funny...." _Hello. Where are you?_ "I'm right here beside you," she said. "What are you talking about?" the young man said. _What planet are you on?_ William's lips hadn't moved that time. She'd been watching. She thought the young man was somehow trying to make fun of her. "Excuse me," she said coldly. She picked up her apple and her pen knife and her handbag and brushed past him into the aisle. She looked around, saw a seat three rows back on the opposite side of the bus. She went to it and settled down, moving over against the window. William was staring around at her with a puzzled expression on his face. _Hello._ She jerked her head away from him angrily and stared out the window at the cold, barren plain. He's not at all nice, she thought. _Hello._ Grimly she refused to listen. He must be doing it with a sort of radio set, she thought. It's probably some sort of thing they advertize in magazines for $2.98. She blinked her eyes. I wish he'd stop. I don't think it's a bit funny. _Hello._ After a few more miles, the voice stopped. Morosely Julia finished peeling her apple. * * * * * It was cold in the Hollywood bus depot; chill rain drizzled down from a leaden sky. She stood in the protection of the building, bag in hand, shivering miserably. Twice she waved futilely for a cab. On the third attempt, she got one. The driver opened the door for her, and she bolted through the rain to its inviting back seat. "Take me to some nice hotel," she said. The driver flipped up the flag and gunned the motor. Five minutes later she was paying him ninety cents; leaving the extra dime out of the dollar for a tip, she ran for the hotel steps. After she registered, she asked the fatherly old gentleman at the desk, "Where does a person go to meet people?" Water trickled down from her hair and across her face. He bent forward and narrowed his eyes. "Meet people?" he asked; his tone had grown cold and suspicious. She bit her lip in embarrassment. Did I say something wrong? she thought. "Never mind," she said, wanting to cry. "I'm not going to stay in this horrible town a minute more than I have to!" "She," the bellboy said when he came down stairs, "is crazy." "What do you mean?" "You should have seen her walk through the door." He pronounced the last word emphatically. "You mean door_way_." "I mean door," the bell boy said. "It was closed when she done it." "I'm going to have to keep an eye on her," the clerk said, clucking his tongue in dry disapproval. * * * * * Now how did I do that? Julia asked herself. She walked to the door and put her hand through it. She wiggled her fingers. She half-opened the door and put her hand through it again. It came out on the other side. She moved her arm back and forth. It felt prickly. She crossed to the bed and sat down. This isn't so good, she thought. I've got to figure out how I did that. She closed her eyes tightly. Other people can't put their hands through doors, she thought. Other people can't heal cuts by looking at them, either.... I never could before; I don't feel any different from other people. And then a little chill of fear ran up and down her spine. Suppose the bed, the floor, the earth below were suddenly to become as unsubstantial as the door. I might drop clear through to China, to, to.... Her fingernails were making red creases in her palms. She stood up and stamped on the floor. Her knees trembled. The floor was solid. She went to the door. It is solid, she thought. She let her fingers explore the surface. She sighed, feeling the rough texture of the wood. Now, she thought. I can reach through it. Her hand passed through it easily. She went back to the bed and sat down. I did it with my mind, she thought. I wanted to put my hand through the door, and I did. In front of the bell hop, I suddenly felt so sure that I could walk through the door that ... I did. I'm going to figure out how I did that, she thought, her mouth tightening into a thin little line of resolution. Because if _I_ learned to do it, anyone else could learn.... _Hello._ Her hands clenched into annoyed little fists. She went to the window and looked out. She opened the door and looked up and down the corridor. No William. _Hello._ "He ... hello." _Good, you can hear me. What planet are you on?_ "The same planet everyone else is." _... the third one from the sun?_ She tried to remember her high school science survey course; and she found that she could remember it very clearly. _Of course, it is._ _That's funny._ * * * * * She realized that she had thought her last statement, and that he (she was sure that the voice belonged to a he) had answered it nevertheless. She was exchanging thoughts with someone! _Hello_, she thought weakly. She gulped. _What do you look like? How many arms and legs do you have?_ _Two of each._ Her mind was very alert and active. She could think with great clarity. _Describe yourself._ She received a mental impression of him. She let out her breath. He was human, after all; as human as anybody. And handsome. She laughed softly with relief: since he has never been able to find anyone like himself, he thought _I_ was from another planet! _Eh?_ _Describe yourself again._ He complied. Suddenly she knew with absolute certainty that this was the one she was looking for. Out of all the people on earth, here was a man made for her. _Could you put your hand through a wooden door?_ _Of course._ She smiled happily. She meant to have him. _Hello._ _Hello._ There was silence. She wrinkled her forehead and tapped her knee. He had ceased transmitting. He'll be back, she thought with satisfaction. I wonder what size suit he wears? I think I'll buy him a nice wool one. I want my husband to look presentable. Smiling, she went to the phone. She called her bank and ordered her account transferred to the all-night branch in Los Angeles. She wanted to have her money available so she could leave town to go to him the moment she found out where he lived: or (assuming he came to her) to have it handy so she could leave town with him the moment he proposed to her--even if it were in the middle of the night. After that, she went to the door and put her hand through it. I'm going to have to figure this out, she thought. If I figure out how I did it, I'm sure I can teach other people. I'm no different than they are; and I don't intend to be. She went back to the bed and sat down and began to think. And she discovered that she could remember the greater part of everything she'd ever read. CHAPTER IV Calvin practiced teleportation for endless hours. He kept the metal ball Forential had given him in almost constant motion. He would exclaim delightedly and hurl it toward one of the twenty-seven other mutants in his compartment. Until the time he hit John in the back of the head with it, his intended victims had always parried it. John lay in a pool of blood, and Calvin began to cry--loud, shrill wails of despair and contrition. When Forential came, he knew instinctively what had happened. Calvin represented the only failure the aliens had experienced in their mutation program; ten years ago his mind had ceased to develop. But for Forential's intercession, the council would have had him destroyed long ago; Forential, like a proud parent, kept hoping to overcome Calvin's heredity. Forential waved his tentacles in exasperation. "You, here, Walt," he said. "We'll have to hurry. I'll show you how, and you can do it." Walt, the most adept mutant in the compartment, listened attentively and then began to heal John. His face wrinkled in deep concentration. Flesh came together; blood ceased to flow; bone knitted. Forential grunted approval. "Watch Walt, now," the alien instructed. "He's doing it nicely." The others, breath held, watched. At