[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

be revived, as without it we are compelled to borrow "cognitions" to express its import. Sir W. Hamilton. To use a word of Bacon's, now unfortunately obsolete, we must determine the relative value of knowledges. H. Spencer. 3. That which is gained and preserved by knowing; instruction; acquaintance; enlightenment; learning; scholarship; erudition. Knowledge puffeth up, but charity edifieth. 1 Cor. viii. 1. Ignorance is the curse of God; -Knowledge, the wing wherewith we fly to heaven. Shak. 4. That familiarity which is gained by actual experience; practical skill; as, a knowledge of life. Shipmen that had knowledge of the sea. 1 Kings ix. 27. 5. Scope of information; cognizance; notice; as, it has not come to my knowledge. Why have I found grace in thine eyes, that thou shouldst take knowledge of me Ruth ii. 10. 6. Sexual intercourse; -- usually preceded by carnal; as, carnal knowledge. Syn. -- See Wisdom. KNOWLEDGE Knowl"edge, v. t. Defn: To acknowledge. [Obs.] "Sinners which knowledge their sins." Tyndale. KNOWN Known, p. p. Defn: of Know. KNOW-NOTHING Know"-noth`ing, n. Defn: A member of a secret political organization in the United States, the chief objects of which were the proscription of foreigners by the repeal of the naturalization laws, and the exclusive choice of native Americans for office. Note: The party originated in 1853, and existed for about three years. The members of it were called Know-nothings, because they replied "I don't know," to any questions asked them in reference to the party. KNOW-NOTHINGISM Know"-noth`ing*ism, n. Defn: The doctrines, principles, or practices, of the Know-nothings. KNUBS Knubs, n. pl. Defn: Waste silk formed in winding off the threads from a cocoon. KNUCKLE Knuc"kle, n. Etym: [OE. knokel, knokil, AS. cuncel; akin to D. knokkel, OFries. knokele, knokle, G. knöchel, Sw. knoge, Dan. knokkel, G. knochen bone, and perh. to E. knock.] 1. The joint of a finger, particularly when made prominent by the closing of the fingers. Davenant. 2. The kneejoint, or middle joint, of either leg of a quadruped, especially of a calf; -- formerly used of the kneejoint of a human being. With weary knuckles on thy brim she kneeled sadly down. Golding. 3. The joint of a plant. [Obs.] Bacon. 4. (Mech.) Defn: The joining pars of a hinge through which the pin or rivet passes; a knuckle joint. 5. (Shipbuilding) Defn: A convex portion of a vessel's figure where a sudden change of shape occurs, as in a canal boat, where a nearly vertical side joins a nearly flat bottom. 6. A contrivance, usually of brass or iron, and furnished with points, worn to protect the hand, to add force to a blow, and to disfigure the person struck; as, brass knuckles; -- called also knuckle duster. [Slang.] Knuckle joint (Mach.), a hinge joint, in which a projection with an eye, on one piece, enters a jaw between two corresponding projections with eyes, on another piece, and is retained by a pin which passes through the eyes and forms the pivot. -- Knuckle of veal (Cookery), the lower part of a leg of veal, from the line of the body to the knuckle. KNUCKLE Knuc"kle, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Knuckled;; p. pr. & vb. n. Knuckling.] Defn: To yield; to submit; -- used with down, to, or under. To knuckle to. (a) To submit to in a contest; to yield to. [Colloq.] See To knock under, under Knock, v. i. (b) To apply one's self vigorously or earnestly to; as, to knuckle to work. [Colloq.] KNUCKLE Knuc"kle, v. t. Defn: To beat with the knuckles; to pommel. [R.] Horace Smith. KNUCKLED Knuc"kled, a. Defn: Jointed. [Obs.] Bacon. KNUFF Knuff, n. Etym: [Cf. Cnof a churl.] Defn: A lout; a clown. [Obs.] The country knuffs, Hob, Dick, and Hick, With clubs and clouted shoon. Hayward. KNUR Knur, n. Etym: [See Knurl.] Defn: A knurl. Woodward. KNURL Knurl, n. Etym: [See Knar, Gnar.] Defn: A contorted knot in wood; a crossgrained protuberance; a nodule; a boss or projection. 2. One who, or that which, is crossgrained. KNURL Knurl, v. t. Defn: To provide with ridges, to assist the grasp, as in the edge of a flat knob, or coin; to mill. KNURLED Knurled, a. 1. Full of knots; gnarled. 2. Milled, as the head of a screw, or the edge of a coin. KNURLY Knurl"y, [Compar. Knurlier (; superl. Knurliest.] Etym: [See Knur, and cf. Gnarly.] Defn: Full of knots; hard; tough; hence, capable of enduring or resisting much. KNURRY Knur"ry, a. Defn: Full of knots. [Obs.] Drayton. KOAITA Ko*ai"ta, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: Same as Coaita. KOALA Ko*a"la, n. Defn: A tailless marsupial (Phascolarctos cinereus), found in Australia. The female carries her young on the back of her neck. Called also Australian bear, native bear, and native sloth. KOB; KOBA Kob, Ko"ba, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: Any one of several species of African antelopes of the genus Kobus, esp. the species Kobus sing-sing. KOBALT Ko"balt, n. Defn: See Cobalt. KOBELLITE Ko"bel*lite, n. Etym: [From Franz von Kobell, of Munich.] (Min.) Defn: A blackish gray mineral, a sulphide of antimony, bismuth, and lead. KOBOLD Ko"bold, n. Etym: [G., perh. orig., house god, hose protector. See Cobalt] Defn: A kind of domestic spirit in German mythology, corresponding to the Scottish brownie and the English Robin Goodfellow. KODAK Ko"dak, n. Defn: A kind of portable camera. KOEL Ko"el, n. Etym: [Native name in India.] (Zoöl.) Defn: Any one of several species of cuckoos of the genus Eudynamys, found in India, the East Indies, and Australia. They deposit their eggs in the nests of other birds. KOFF Koff, n. Etym: [D. kof.] Defn: A two-masted Dutch vessel. KOFTGARI Koft`ga*ri", a. [Hind. koft garï goldbeating. fr. Per. koft beating + garï trade.] Defn: Ornamental work produced by inlaying steel with gold, -- a variety of damascening much used in the arts of India. KOHINOOR; KOHNUR Koh`i*noor", Koh`*nur, n. Etym: [Per. koh-i-n, lit., mountain of light.] Defn: A famous diamond, surrendered to the British crown on the annexation of the Punjab. According to Hindoo legends, it was found in a Golconda mine, and has been the property of various Hindoo and Persian rulers. KOHL Kohl, n. Etym: [See Alcohol.] Defn: A mixture of soot and other ingredients, used by Egyptian and other Eastern women to darken the edges of the eyelids. KOHL-RABI Kohl"-ra`bi, n.; pl. Kohl-rabies. Etym: [G. Cf. Cole, Rape the plant.] (Bot.) Defn: A variety of cabbage, in which the edible part is a large, turnip-shaped swelling of the stem, above the surface of the ground. KOKAMA Ko*ka"ma, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: The gemsbok. KOKLASS Ko"klass, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: Any pheasant of the genus Pucrasia. The birds of this genus inhabit India and China, and are distinguished by having a long central and two lateral crests on the head. Called also pucras. KOKOON Ko*koon", n. (Zoöl.) Defn: The gnu. KOLA; KOLA NUT Ko"la, Kola nut . Defn: Same as Cola, Cola nut. KOLARIAN Ko*la"ri*an, n. (Ethnol.) Defn: An individual of one of the races of aboriginal inhabitants which survive in Hindostan. -- a. Defn: Of or pertaining to the Kolarians. KOLINSKY Ko*lin"sky, n. [Russ. kolinski of Kola, a district in northeasten Russia where the finest minks abound.] Defn: Among furriers, any of several Asiatic minks; esp., Putorius sibiricus, the yellowish brown pelt of which is valued, esp. for the tail, used for making artists' brushes. Trade names for the fur are red sable and Tatar sable. KOLUSCHAN; KOLUSHAN Ko*lusch"an, Ko*lush"an, a. [From Russ. kalyushka piece of wood (worn in the nether lip).] Defn: Designating, or pert. to, a linguistic stock of North American Indians comprising the Tlinkit tribes of the Alexander Archipelago of southeastern Alaska and adjacent coast lands. Their language bears some affinity to Mexican tongues. KOMENIC Ko*me"nic, a. Etym: [Prob. G. mekonin (by transposition of letters) + -ic.] (Chem.) Defn: Of or pertaining to, or designating, an acid derived from meconic acid. [Written also comenic.] KOMTOK Kom"tok, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: An African freshwater fish (Protopterus annectens), belonging to the Dipnoi. It can breathe air by means of its lungs, and when waters dry up, it encases itself in a nest of hard mud, where it remains till the rainy season. It is used as food. KON Kon, v. t. Defn: To know. See Can, and Con. [Obs.] Ye konnen thereon as much as any man. Chaucer. KONITE Ko"nite, n. (Min.) Defn: See Conite. KONSEAL Kon*seal", n. [Prob. formed from conceal.] (Med.) Defn: A form of capsule for inclosing a dose of medicine that is offensive, caustic, or the like. KONZE Konze, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: A large African antelope (Alcelaphus Lichtensteini), allied to the hartbeest, but having shorter and flatter horns, and lacking a black patch on the face. KOODOO Koo"doo, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: A large South African antelope (Strepsiceros kudu). The males have graceful spiral horns, sometimes four feet long. The general color is reddish or grayish brown, with eight or nine white bands on each side, and a pale dorsal stripe. The old males