[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

GRADUAL Grad"u*al, n. Etym: [LL. graduale a gradual (in sense 1), fr. L. gradus step: cf. F. graduel. See Grade, and cf. Grail a gradual.] 1. (R. C. Ch.) (a) An antiphon or responsory after the epistle, in the Mass, which was sung on the steps, or while the deacon ascended the steps. (b) A service book containing the musical portions of the Mass. 2. A series of steps. [Obs.] Dryden. GRADUALITY Grad"u*al"i*ty, n. Defn: The state of being gradual; gradualness. [R.] Sir T. Browne. GRADUALLY Grad"u*al*ly, adv. 1. In a gradual manner. 2. In degree. [Obs.] Human reason doth not only gradually, but specifically, differ from the fantastic reason of brutes. Grew. GRADUALNESS Grad"u*al*ness, n. Defn: The quality or state of being gradual; regular progression or gradation; slowness. The gradualness of this movement. M. Arnold. The gradualness of growth is a characteristic which strikes the simplest observer. H. Drummond. GRADUATE Grad"u*ate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Graduated p. pr. & vb. n. Graduating (.] Etym: [Cf. F. graduer. See Graduate, n., Grade.] 1. To mark with degrees; to divide into regular steps, grades, or intervals, as the scale of a thermometer, a scheme of punishment or rewards, etc. 2. To admit or elevate to a certain grade or degree; esp., in a college or university, to admit, at the close of the course, to an honorable standing defined by a diploma; as, he was graduated at Yale College. 3. To prepare gradually; to arrange, temper, or modify by degrees or to a certain degree; to determine the degrees of; as, to graduate the heat of an oven. Dyers advance and graduate their colors with salts. Browne. 4. (Chem.) Defn: To bring to a certain degree of consistency, by evaporation, as a fluid. Graduating engine, a dividing engine. See Dividing engine, under Dividing. GRADUATE Grad"u*ate, v. i. 1. To pass by degrees; to change gradually; to shade off; as, sandstone which graduates into gneiss; carnelian sometimes graduates into quartz. 2. (Zoöl.) Defn: To taper, as the tail of certain birds. 3. To take a degree in a college or university; to become a graduate; to receive a diploma. He graduated at Oxford. Latham. He was brought to their bar and asked where he had graduated. Macaulay. GRADUATE Grad"u*ate, n. Etym: [LL. graduatus, p. p. of graduare to admit to a degree, fr. L. gradus grade. See Grade, n.] 1. One who has received an academical or professional degree; one who has completed the prescribed course of study in any school or institution of learning. 2. A graduated cup, tube, or flask; a measuring glass used by apothecaries and chemists. See under Graduated. GRADUATE Grad"u*ate, a. Etym: [See Graduate, n. & v.] Defn: Arrangei by successive steps or degrees; graduated. Beginning with the genus, passing through all the graduate and subordinate stages. Tatham. GRADUATED Grad"u*a"ted, a. 1. Marked with, or divided into, degrees; divided into grades. 2. (Zoöl.) Defn: Tapered; -- said of a bird's tail when the outer feathers are shortest, and the others successively longer. Graduated tube, bottle, cap, or glass, a vessel, usually of glass, having horizontal marks upon its sides, with figures, to indicate the amount of the contents at the several levels. -- Graduated spring (Railroads), a combination of metallic and rubber springs. GRADUATESHIP Grad"u*ate*ship, n. Defn: State of being a graduate. Milton. GRADUATION Grad"u*a"tion, n. Etym: [LL. graduatio promotion to a degree: cf. F. graduation division into degrees.] 1. The act of graduating, or the state of being graduated; as, graduation of a scale; graduation at a college; graduation in color; graduation by evaporation; the graduation of a bird's tail, etc. 2. The marks on an instrument or vessel to indicate degrees or quantity; a scale. 3. The exposure of a liquid in large surfaces to the air, so as to hasten its evaporation. GRADUATOR Grad"u*a"tor, n. 1. One who determines or indicates graduation; as, a graduator of instruments. 2. An instrument for dividing any line, right or curve, into small, regular intervals. 3. An apparatus for diffusing a solution, as brine or vinegar, over a large surface, for exposure to the air. GRADUS Gra"dus, n. Etym: [From L. gradus ad Parnassum a step to Parnassus.] Defn: A dictionary of prosody, designed as an aid in writing Greek or Latin poetry. He set to work . . . without gradus or other help. T. Hughes. GRAF Graf, n. Etym: [G. Cf. -grave.] Defn: A German title of nobility, equivalent to earl in English, or count in French. See Earl. GRAFF Graff, n. Etym: [OE. grafe, greife, greive. Cf. Margrave.] Defn: A steward; an overseer. [A prince] is nothing but a servant, overseer, or graff, and not the head, which is a title belonging only to Christ. John Knox. GRAFF Graff n. & v. Defn: See Graft. GRAFFAGE Graff"age, n. Etym: [Cf. Grave, n.] Defn: The scarp of a ditch or moat. "To clean the graffages." Miss Mitford. GRAFFER Graf"fer, n. Etym: [See Greffier.] (Law.) Defn: a notary or scrivener. Bowvier. GRAFFITI Graf*fi"ti, n. pl. Etym: [It., pl. of graffito scratched] Defn: Inscriptions, figure drawings, etc., found on the walls of ancient sepulchers or ruins, as in the Catacombs, or at Pompeii. GRAFFITO Graf*fi"to, n. [It., fr. graffio a scratching.] (Art) Defn: Production of decorative designs by scratching them through a surface of layer plaster, glazing, etc., revealing a different- colored ground; also, pottery or ware so decorated; -- chiefly used attributively. GRAFT Graft, n. Etym: [OE. graff, F. greffe, originally the same word as OF. grafe pencil, L. graphium, Gr. carve. So named from the resemblance of a scion or shoot to a pointed pencil. Cf. Graphic, Grammar.] (a) A small shoot or scion of a tree inserted in another tree, the stock of which is to support and nourish it. The two unite and become one tree, but the graft determines the kind of fruit. (b) A branch or portion of a tree growing from such a shoot. (c) (Surg.) A portion of living tissue used in the operation of autoplasty. GRAFT Graft, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Grafted; p. pr. & vb. n. Grafting.] Etym: [F. greffer. See Graft, n.] 1. To insert (a graft) in a branch or stem of another tree; to propagate by insertion in another stock; also, to insert a graft upon. [Formerly written graff.] 2. (Surg.) Defn: To implant a portion of (living flesh or akin) in a lesion so as to form an organic union. 3. Defn: To join (one thing) to another as if by grafting, so as to bring about a close union. And graft my love immortal on thy fame ! Pope. 4. (Naut.) Defn: To cover, as a ring bolt, block strap, splicing, etc., with a weaving of small cord or rope-yarns. GRAFT Graft, v. i. Defn: To insert scions from one tree, or kind of tree, etc., into another; to practice grafting. GRAFTAGE Graft"age, n. (Hort.) Defn: The science of grafting, including the various methods of practice and details of operation. GRAFTER Graft"er, n. 1. One who inserts scions on other stocks, or propagates fruit by ingrafting. 2. Defn: An instrument by which grafting is facilitated. 3. The original tree from which a scion has been taken for grafting upon another tree. Shak. GRAFTING Graft"ing n. 1. (Hort.) The act, art, or process of inserting grafts. 2. (Naut.) Defn: The act or method of weaving a cover for a ring, rope end, etc. 3. (Surg.) Defn: The transplanting of a portion of flesh or skin to a denuded surface; autoplasty. 4. (Carp.) Defn: A scarfing or endwise attachment of one timber to another. Cleft grafting (Hort.) a method of grafting in which the scion is placed in a cleft or slit in the stock or stump made by sawing off a branch, usually in such a manaer that its bark evenly joins that of the stock. -- Crown, or Rind, grafting, a method of grafting which the alburnum and inner bark are separated, and between them is inserted the lower end of the scion cut slantwise. -- Saddle grafting, a mode of grafting in which a deep cleft is made in the end of the scion by two sloping cuts, and the end of the stock is made wedge-shaped to fit the cleft in the scion, which is placed upon it saddlewise. -- Side grafting, a mode of grafting in which the scion, cut quite across very obliquely, so as to give it the form of a slender wedge, is thrust down inside of the bark of the stock or stem into which it is inserted, the cut side of the scion being next the wood of the stock. -- Skin grafting. (Surg.) See Autoplasty. -- Splice grafting (Hort.), a method of grafting by cutting the ends of the scion and stock completely across and obliquely, in such a manner that the sections are of the same shape, then lapping the ends so that the one cut surface exactly fits