[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

Spenser. (d) Sweet; gentle; peaceful. "Silver slumber." Spenser. American silver fir (Bot.), the balsam fir. See under Balsam. -- Silver age (Roman Lit.), the latter part (a. d. 14-180) of the classical period of Latinity, -- the time of writers of inferior purity of language, as compared with those of the previous golden age, so-called. -- Silver-bell tree (Bot.), an American shrub or small tree (Halesia tetraptera) with white bell-shaped flowers in clusters or racemes; the snowdrop tree. -- Silver bush (Bot.), a shrubby leguminous plant (Anthyllis Barba- Jovis) of Southern Europe, having silvery foliage. -- Silver chub (Zoöl.), the fallfish. -- Silver eel. (Zoöl.) (a) The cutlass fish. (b) A pale variety of the common eel. -- Silver fir (Bot.), a coniferous tree (Abies pectinata) found in mountainous districts in the middle and south of Europe, where it often grows to the height of 100 or 150 feet. It yields Burgundy pitch and Strasburg turpentine. -- Silver foil, foil made of silver. -- Silver fox (Zoöl.), a variety of the common fox (Vulpes vulpes, variety argenteus) found in the northern parts of Asia, Europe, and America. Its fur is nearly black, with silvery tips, and is highly valued. Called also black fox, and silver-gray fox. -- Silver gar. (Zoöl.) See Billfish (a) -- Silver grain (Bot.), the lines or narrow plates of cellular tissue which pass from the pith to the bark of an exogenous stem; the medullary rays. In the wood of the oak they are much larger than in that of the beech, maple, pine, cherry, etc. -- Silver grebe (Zoöl.), the red-throated diver. See Illust. under Diver. -- Silver hake (Zoöl.), the American whiting. -- Silver leaf, leaves or sheets made of silver beaten very thin. -- Silver lunge (Zoöl.), the namaycush. -- Silver moonfish.(Zoöl.) See Moonfish (b). -- Silver moth (Zoöl.), a lepisma. -- Silver owl (Zoöl.), the barn owl. -- Silver perch (Zoöl.), the mademoiselle, 2. -- Silver pheasant (Zoöl.), any one of several species of beautiful crested and long-tailed Asiatic pheasants, of the genus Euplocamus. They have the tail and more or less of the upper parts silvery white. The most common species (E. nychtemerus) is native of China. -- Silver plate, domestic utensils made of silver. -- Silver plover (Zoöl.), the knot. -- Silver salmon (Zoöl.), a salmon (Oncorhynchus kisutch) native of both coasts of the North Pacific. It ascends all the American rivers as far south as the Sacramento. Called also kisutch, whitefish, and white salmon. -- Silver shell (Zoöl.), a marine bivalve of the genus Anomia. See Anomia. -- Silver steel, an alloy of steel with a very small proportion of silver. -- Silver stick, a title given to the title field officer of the Life Guards when on duty at the palace. [Eng.] Thackeray. -- Silver tree (Bot.), a South African tree (Leucadendron argenteum) with long, silvery, silky leaves. -- Silver trout, (Zoöl.) See Trout. -- Silver wedding. See under Wedding. -- Silver whiting (Zoöl.), a marine sciænoid food fish (Menticirrus littoralis) native of the Southern United States; -- called also surf whiting. -- Silver witch (Zoöl.), A lepisma. SILVER Sil"ver, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Silvered; p. pr. & vb. n. Silvering.] 1. To cover with silver; to give a silvery appearance to by applying a metal of a silvery color; as, to silver a pin; to silver a glass mirror plate with an amalgam of tin and mercury. 2. To polish like silver; to impart a brightness to, like that of silver. And smiling calmness silvered o'er the deep. Pope. 3. To make hoary, or white, like silver. His head was silvered o'er with age. Gay. SILVER Sil"ver, v. i. Defn: To acquire a silvery color. [R.] The eastern sky began to silver and shine. L. Wallace. SILVERBACK Sil"ver*back`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: The knot. SILVERBERRY Sil"ver*ber`ry, n. (Bot.) Defn: A tree or shrub (Elæagnus argentea) with silvery foliage and fruit. Gray. SILVERBILL Sil"ver*bill`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: An Old World finch of the genus Minia, as the M. Malabarica of India, and M. cantans of Africa. SILVERBOOM Sil"ver*boom`, n. Etym: [D. zilver silver + boom tree.] (Bot.) Defn: See Leucadendron. SILVER CERTIFICATE Sil"ver cer*tif"i*cate. Defn: A certificate issued by a government that there has been deposited with it silver to a specified amount, payable to the bearer on demand. In the United States and its possessions, it is issued against the deposit of silver coin, and is not legal tender, but is receivable for customs, taxes, and all public dues. SILVERFIN Sil"ver*fin`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: A small North American fresh-water cyprinoid fish (Notropis Whipplei). SILVERFISH Sil"ver*fish`, n. (Zoöl.) (a) The tarpum. (b) A white variety of the goldfish. Lepisma saccharina, which may infest houses, and eats starched clothing and sized papers. See Lepisma. SILVER-GRAY Sil"ver-gray`, a. Defn: Having a gray color with a silvery luster; as, silver-gray hair. SILVERINESS Sil"ver*i*ness, n. Defn: The state of being silvery. SILVERING Sil"ver*ing, n. (Metal.) Defn: The art or process of covering metals, wood, paper, glass, etc., with a thin film of metallic silver, or a substance resembling silver; also, the firm do laid on; as, the silvering of a glass speculum. SILVERITE Sil"ver*ite, n. Defn: One who favors the use or establishment of silver as a monetary standard; -- so called by those who favor the gold standard. [Colloq. or Cant] SILVERIZE Sil"ver*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Silverized; p. pr. & vb. n. Silverizing.] Defn: To cover with silver. SILVERLESS Sil"ver*less, a. Defn: Having no silcver; hence, without money; impecunious. Piers Plowman. SILVERLING Sil"ver*ling, n. Defn: A small silver coin. [Obs.] A thousand vines at a thousand silverings. Isa. vii. 23. SILVERLY Sil"ver*ly, adv. Defn: Like silver in appearance or in sound. Let me wipe off this honorable dew, That silverly doth progress on thy cheeks. Shak. SILVERN Sil"vern, a. Etym: [AS. seolfern, sylfren.] Defn: Made of silver. [Archaic.] Wyclif (Acts xix. 24). Speech is silvern; silence is golden. Old Proverb. SILVERSIDES Sil"ver*sides`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: Any one of several species of small fishes of the family Atherinidæ, having a silvery stripe along each side of the body. The common species of the American coast (Menidia notata) is very abundant. Called also silverside, sand smelt, friar, tailor, and tinker. Brook silversides (Zoöl.), a small fresh-water North American fish (Labadesthes sicculus) related to the marine silversides. SILVERSMITH Sil"ver*smith`, n. Defn: One whose occupation is to manufacture utensils, ornaments, etc., of silver; a worker in silver. SILVERSPOT Sil"ver*spot`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: Any one of numerous species of butterflies of the genus Argynnis and allied genera, having silvery spots on the under side of the wings. See Illust. under Aphrodite. SILVER STATE Silver State. Defn: Nevada; -- a nickname alluding to its silver mines. SILVERWARE Sil"ver*ware`, n. Defn: Dishes, vases, ornaments, and utensils of various sorts, made of silver. SILVERWEED Sil"ver*weed`, n. (Bot.) Defn: A perennial rosaceous herb (Potentilla Anserina) having the leaves silvery white beneath. SILVERY Sil"ver*y, a. 1. Resembling, or having the luster of, silver; grayish white and lustrous; of a mild luster; bright. All the enameled race, whose silvery wing Waves to the tepid zephyrs of the spring. Pope. 2. Besprinkled or covered with silver. 3. Having the clear, musical tone of silver; soft and clear in sound; as, silvery voices; a silvery laugh. Silvery iron (Metal.), a peculiar light-gray fine-grained cast iron, usually obtained from clay iron ore. SILVICS Sil"vics, n. 1. The science treating of the life of trees in the forest. 2. Habit or behavior of a forest tree. SILVICULTURE Sil"vi*cul`ture, n. Etym: [Cf. F. silviculture.] Defn: See Sylviculture. SIMA Si"ma, n. (Arch.) Defn: A cyma. SIMAGRE Sim"a*gre, n. Etym: [F. simagrée.] Defn: A grimace. [Obs.] Dryden. SIMAR Si*mar", n. Etym: [F. simarre. See Chimere.] Defn: A woman's long dress or robe; also light covering; a scarf. [Written also cimar, cymar, samare, simare.] SIMARRE Si`marre". Etym: [F.] Defn: See Simar. Sir W. Scott. SIMBLOT Sim"blot, n. Etym: [F. simbleau.] Defn: The harness of a drawloom. SIMIA Sim"i*a, n. Etym: [L., an ape; cf. simus flatnosed, snub-nosed, Gr. (Zoöl.) Defn: A Linnæan genus of Quadrumana which included the types of numerous modern genera. By modern writers it is usually restricted to the genus which includes the orang-outang. SIMIAL Sim"i*al, a. (Zoöl.) Defn: Simian; apelike. SIMIAN Sim"i*an, a. Etym: [L. simia an ape.] (Zoöl.) Defn: Of or pertaining to the family Simiadæ, which, in its widest sense, includes all the Old World apes and monkeys; also, apelike. -- n. Defn: Any Old World monkey or ape. SIMILAR Sim"i*lar, a. Etym: [F. similaire, fr. L. similis like, similar. See Same, a., and cf. Simulate.] 1. Exactly corresponding; resembling in all respects; precisely like. 2. Nearly corresponding; resembling in many respects; somewhat like; having a general likeness. 3. Homogenous; uniform. [R.] Boyle. Similar figures (Geom.), figures which differ from each other only in magnitude, being made up of the same number of like parts similarly situated. -- Similar rectilineal figures, such as have their several angles respectively equal, each