[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

2. The act of dropping or tumbling from an erect posture; as, he was walking on ice, and had a fall. 3. Death; destruction; overthrow; ruin. They thy fall conspire. Denham. Pride goeth before destruction, and a haughty spirit before a fall. Prov. xvi. 18. 4. Downfall; degradation; loss of greatness or office; termination of greatness, power, or dominion; ruin; overthrow; as, the fall of the Roman empire. Beholds thee glorious only in thy fall. Pope. 5. The surrender of a besieged fortress or town ; as, the fall of Sebastopol. 6. Diminution or decrease in price or value; depreciation; as, the fall of prices; the fall of rents. 7. A sinking of tone; cadence; as, the fall of the voice at the close of a sentence. 8. Declivity; the descent of land or a hill; a slope. 9. Descent of water; a cascade; a cataract; a rush of water down a precipice or steep; -- usually in the plural, sometimes in the singular; as, the falls of Niagara. 10. The discharge of a river or current of water into the ocean, or into a lake or pond; as, the fall of the Po into the Gulf of Venice. Addison. 11. Extent of descent; the distance which anything falls; as, the water of a stream has a fall of five feet. 12. The season when leaves fall from trees; autumn. What crowds of patients the town doctor kills, Or how, last fall, he raised the weekly bills. Dryden. 13. That which falls; a falling; as, a fall of rain; a heavy fall of snow. 14. The act of felling or cutting down. "The fall of timber." Johnson. 15. Lapse or declinsion from innocence or goodness. Specifically: The first apostasy; the act of our first parents in eating the forbidden fruit; also, the apostasy of the rebellious angels. 16. Formerly, a kind of ruff or band for the neck; a falling band; a faule. B. Jonson. 17. That part (as one of the ropes) of a tackle to which the power is applied in hoisting. Fall herring (Zoöl.), a herring of the Atlantic (Clupea mediocris); -- also called tailor herring, and hickory shad. -- To try a fall, to try a bout at wrestling. Shak. FALLACIOUS Fal*la"cious, a. Etym: [L. fallaciosus, fr. fallacia: cf. F. fallacieux. See Fallacy.] Defn: Embodying or pertaining to a fallacy; illogical; fitted to deceive; misleading; delusive; as, fallacious arguments or reasoning. -- Fal*la"cious*ly, adv. -Fal*la"cious*ness, n. FALLACY Fal"la*cy, n.; pl. Fallacies. Etym: [OE. fallace, fallas, deception, F. fallace, fr. L. fallacia, fr. fallax deceitful, deceptive, fr. fallere to deceive. See Fail.] 1. Deceptive or false appearance; deceitfulness; that which misleads the eye or the mind; deception. Winning by conquest what the first man lost, By fallacy surprised. Milton. 2. (Logic) Defn: An argument, or apparent argument, which professes to be decisive of the matter at issue, while in reality it is not; a sophism. Syn. -- Deception; deceit; mistake. -- Fallacy, Sophistry. A fallacy is an argument which professes to be decisive, but in reality is not; sophistry is also false reasoning, but of so specious and subtle a kind as to render it difficult to expose its fallacy. Many fallacies are obvious, but the evil of sophistry lies in its consummate art. "Men are apt to suffer their minds to be misled by fallacies which gratify their passions. Many persons have obscured and confounded the nature of things by their wretched sophistry; though an act be never so sinful, they will strip it of its guilt." South. FALLALS; FAL-LALS Fal"*lals`, n.pl. Defn: Gay ornaments; frippery; gewgaws. [Colloq.] Thackeray. FALLAX Fal"lax, n. Etym: [L. fallax deceptive. See Fallacy.] Defn: Cavillation; a caviling. [Obs.] Cranmer. FALLEN Fall"en, a. Defn: Dropped; prostrate; degraded; ruined; decreased; dead. Some ruined temple or fallen monument. Rogers. FALLENCY Fal"len*cy, n. Etym: [LL. fallentia, L. fallens p.pr of fallere.] Defn: An exception. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor. FALLER Fall"er, n. 1. One who, or that which, falls. 2. (Mach.) Defn: A part which acts by falling, as a stamp in a fulling mill, or the device in a spinning machine to arrest motion when a thread breaks. FALLFISH Fall"fish`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: A fresh-water fish of the United States (Semotilus bullaris); - - called also silver chub, and Shiner. The name is also applied to other allied species. FALLIBILITY Fal`li*bil"i*ty, n. Defn: The state of being fallible; liability to deceive or to be deceived; as, the fallibity of an argument or of an adviser. FALLIBLE Fal"li*ble, a. Etym: [LL. fallibilis, fr. L. fallere to deceive: cf. F. faillible. See Fail.] Defn: Liable to fail, mistake, or err; liable to deceive or to be deceived; as, all men are fallible; our opinions and hopes are fallible. FALLIBLY Fal"li*bly, adv. Defn: In a fallible manner. FALLING Fall"ing, a. & n. Defn: from Fall, v. i. Falling away, Falling off, etc. See To fall away, To fall off, etc., under Fall, v. i. -- Falling band, the plain, broad, linen collar turning down over the doublet, worn in the early part of the 17th century. -- Falling sickness (Med.), epilepsy. Shak. -- Falling star. (Astron.) See Shooting star. -- Falling stone, a stone falling through the atmosphere; a meteorite; an aërolite. -- Falling tide, the ebb tide. -- Falling weather, a rainy season. [Colloq.] Bartlett. FALLOPIAN Fal*lo"pi*an, a. Etym: [From Fallopius, or Fallopio, a physician of Modena, who died in 1562.] (Anat.) Defn: Pertaining to, or discovered by, Fallopius; as, the Fallopian tubes or oviducts, the ducts or canals which conduct the ova from the ovaries to the uterus. FALLOW Fal"low, a. Etym: [AS. fealu, fealo, pale yellow or red; akin to D. vaal fallow, faded, OHG. falo, G. falb, fahl, Icel. fölr, and prob. to Lith. palvas, OSlav. plavpallidus pale, pallere to be pale, Gr. palita. Cf. Pale, Favel, a., Favor.] 1. Pale red or pale yellow; as, a fallow deer or greyhound. Shak. 2. Etym: [Cf. Fallow, n.] Defn: Left untilled or unsowed after plowing; uncultivated; as, fallow ground. Fallow chat, Fallow finch (Zoöl.), a small European bird, the wheatear (Saxicola ænanthe). See Wheatear. FALLOW Fal"low, n. Etym: [So called from the fallow, or somewhat yellow, color of naked ground; or perh. akin to E. felly, n., cf. MHG. valgen to plow up, OHG. felga felly, harrow.] 1. Plowed land. [Obs.] Who . . . pricketh his blind horse over the fallows. Chaucer. 2. Land that has lain a year or more untilled or unseeded; land plowed without being sowed for the season. The plowing of fallows is a benefit to land. Mortimer. 3. The plowing or tilling of land, without sowing it for a season; as, summer fallow, properly conducted, has ever been found a sure method of destroying weeds. Be a complete summer fallow, land is rendered tender and mellow. The fallow gives it a better tilth than can be given by a fallow crop. Sinclair. Fallow crop, the crop taken from a green fallow. [Eng.] -- Green fallow, fallow whereby land is rendered mellow and clean from weeds, by cultivating some green crop, as turnips, potatoes, etc. [Eng.] FALLOW Fal"low, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Fallowed; p. pr. & vb. n. Fallowing.] Etym: [From Fallow, n.] Defn: To plow, harrow, and break up, as land, without seeding, for the purpose of destroying weeds and insects, and rendering it mellow; as, it is profitable to fallow cold, strong, clayey land. FALLOW DEER Fal"low deer`. Etym: [So called from its fallow or pale yellow color.] (Zoöl.) Defn: A European species of deer (Cervus dama), much smaller than the red deer. In summer both sexes are spotted with white. It is common in England, where it is often domesticated in the parks. FALLOWIST Fal"low*ist, n. Defn: One who favors the practice of fallowing land. [R.] Sinclair. FALLOWNESS Fal"low*ness, n. Defn: A well or opening, through the successive floors of a warehouse or manufactory, through which goods are raised or lowered. [U.S.] Bartlett. FALSARY Fal"sa*ry, n. Etym: [L. falsarius, fr. falsus. See False, a.] Defn: A falsifier of evidence. [Obs.] Sheldon. FALSE False, a. [Compar. Falser; superl. Falsest.] Etym: [L. falsus, p.p. of fallere to deceive; cf. OF. faus, fals, F. faux, and AS. fals fraud. See Fail, Fall.] 1. Uttering falsehood; unveracious; given to deceit; dishnest; as, a false witness. 2. Not faithful or loyal, as to obligations, allegiance, vows, etc.; untrue; treacherous; perfidious; as, a false friend, lover, or subject; false to promises. I to myself was false, ere thou to me. Milton. 3. Not according with truth or reality; not true; fitted or likely to deceive or disappoint; as, a false statement. 4. Not genuine or real; assumed or designed to deceive; counterfeit; hypocritical; as, false tears; false modesty; false colors; false jewelry. False face must hide what the false heart doth know. Shak. 5. Not well founded; not firm or trustworthy; erroneous; as, a false claim; a false conclusion; a false construction in grammar. Whose false foundation waves have swept away. Spenser.