[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

bees to settle, by beating metal to make a din. TANG Tang, v. i. Defn: To make a ringing sound; to ring. Let thy tongue tang arguments of state. Shak. TANGALUNG Tan"ga*lung, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: An East Indian civet (Viverra tangalunga). TANGELO Tan"ge*lo (tan"je*lo), n. [Tangerine + pomelo.] Defn: A hybrid between the tangerine orange and the grapefruit, or pomelo; also, the fruit. TANGENCE Tan"gence, n. Defn: Tangency. [R.] TANGENCY Tan"gen*cy, n. Defn: The quality or state of being tangent; a contact or touching. TANGENT Tan"gent, n. Etym: [L. tangens, -entis, p.pr. of tangere to touch; akin to Gr. tangente. Cf. Attain, Contaminate, Contingent, Entire, Tact, Taste, Tax, v. t.] (Geom.) Defn: A tangent line curve, or surface; specifically, that portion of the straight line tangent to a curve that is between the point of tangency and a given line, the given line being, for example, the axis of abscissas, or a radius of a circle produced. See Trigonometrical function, under Function. Artificial, or Logarithmic, tangent, the logarithm of the natural tangent of an arc. -- Natural tangent, a decimal expressing the length of the tangent of an arc, the radius being reckoned unity. -- Tangent galvanometer (Elec.), a form of galvanometer having a circular coil and a short needle, in which the tangent of the angle of deflection of the needle is proportional to the strength of the current. -- Tangent of an angle, the natural tangent of the arc subtending or measuring the angle. -- Tangent of an arc, a right line, as ta, touching the arc of a circle at one extremity a, and terminated by a line ct, passing from the center through the other extremity o. TANGENT Tan"gent, a. Etym: [L. tangens, -entis, p.pr.] Defn: Touching; touching at a single point; specifically (Geom.) Defn: meeting a curve or surface at a point and having at that point the same direction as the curve or surface; -- said of a straight line, curve, or surface; as, a line tangent to a curve; a curve tangent to a surface; tangent surfaces. Tangent plane (Geom.), a plane which touches a surface in a point or line. -- Tangent scale (Gun.), a kind of breech sight for a cannon. -- Tangent screw (Mach.), an endless screw; a worm. TANGENTAL Tan*gen"tal, a. (Geom.) Defn: Tangential. TANGENTIAL Tan*gen"tial, a. (Geom.) Defn: Of or pertaining to a tangent; in the direction of a tangent. Tangential force (Mech.), a force which acts on a moving body in the direction of a tangent to the path of the body, its effect being to increase or diminish the velocity; -- distinguished from a normal force, which acts at right angles to the tangent and changes the direction of the motion without changing the velocity. -- Tangential stress. (Engin.) See Shear, n., 3. TANGENTIALLY Tan*gen"tial*ly, adv. Defn: In the direction of a tangent. TANGENT SPOKE Tangent spoke. Defn: A tension spoke of a bicycle or similar wheel, secured tangentially to the hub. TANGENT WHEEL Tangent wheel. (a) A worm or worm wheel; a tangent screw. (b) A wheel with tangent spokes. TANGERINE Tan"ger*ine`, n. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.] (Bot.) Defn: A kind of orange, much like the mandarin, but of deeper color and higher flavor. It is said to have been produced in America from the mandarin. [Written also tangierine.] TANGFISH Tang"fish`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: The common harbor seal. [Prov. Eng.] TANGHINIA Tan*ghin"i*a, n. Etym: [NL.] (Bot.) Defn: The ordeal tree. See under Ordeal. TANGIBILITY Tan`gi*bil"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. tanggibilité.] Defn: The quality or state of being tangible. TANGIBLE Tan"gi*ble, a. Etym: [L. tangibilis, fr. tangere to touch: cf. F. tangible. See Tangent.] 1. Perceptible to the touch; tactile; palpable. Bacon. 2. Capable of being possessed or realized; readily apprehensible by the mind; real; substantial; evident. "A tangible blunder." Byron. Direct and tangible benefit to ourselves and others. Southey. -- Tan"gi*ble*ness, n. -- Tan"gi*bly, adv. TANGLE Tan"gle, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Tangled; p. pr. & vb. n. Tangling.] Etym: [A frequentative fr. tang seaweed; hence, to twist like seaweed. See Tang seaweed, and cf. Tangle, n.] 1. To unite or knit together confusedly; to interweave or interlock, as threads, so as to make it difficult to unravel the knot; to entangle; to ravel. 2. To involve; to insnare; to entrap; as, to be tangled in lies. "Tangled in amorous nets." Milton. When my simple weakness strays, Tangled in forbidden ways. Crashaw. TANGLE Tan"gle, v. i. Defn: To be entangled or united confusedly; to get in a tangle. TANGLE Tan"gle, n. 1. Etym: [Cf. Icel. þöngull. See Tang seaweed.] (Bot.) Defn: Any large blackish seaweed, especially the Laminaria saccharina. See Kelp. Coral and sea fan and tangle, the blooms and the palms of the ocean. C. Kingsley. 2. Etym: [From Tangle, v.] Defn: A knot of threads, or other thing, united confusedly, or so interwoven as not to be easily disengaged; a snarl; as, hair or yarn in tangles; a tangle of vines and briers. Used also figuratively. 3. pl. Defn: An instrument consisting essentiallly of an iron bar to which are attached swabs, or bundles of frayed rope, or other similar substances, -- used to capture starfishes, sea urchins, and other similar creatures living at the bottom of the sea. Blue tangle. (Bot.)See Dangleberry. -- Tangle picker (Zoöl.), the turnstone. [Prov. Eng.] TANGLEFISH Tan"gle*fish`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: The sea adder, or great pipefish of Europe. TANGLINGLY Tan"gling*ly, adv. Defn: In a tangling manner. TANGLY Tan"gly, a. 1. Entangled; intricate. 2. Covered with tangle, or seaweed. Prone, helpless, on the tangly beach he lay. Falconer. TANGO Tan"go, n.; pl. Tangos (#). [Sp., a certain dance.] (a) A difficult dance in two-four time characterized by graceful posturing, frequent pointing positions, and a great variety of steps, including the cross step and turning steps. The dance is of Spanish origin, and is believed to have been in its original form a part of the fandango. (b) Any of various popular forms derived from this. TANGRAM Tan"gram, n. Etym: [Cf. Trangram.] Defn: A Chinese toy made by cutting a square of thin wood, or other suitable material, into seven pieces, as shown in the cut, these pieces being capable of combination in various ways, so as to form a great number of different figures. It is now often used in primary schools as a means of instruction. TANGUE Tangue, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: The tenrec. TANGUN Tan"gun, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: A piebald variety of the horse, native of Thibet. TANGWHAUP Tang"whaup, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: The whimbrel. [Prov. Eng.] TANIER Tan"i*er, n. (Bot.) Defn: An aroid plant (Caladium sagittæfolium), the leaves of which are boiled and eaten in the West Indies. [Written also tannier.] TANIST Tan"ist, n. Etym: [Ir. tanaiste, tanaise, second, the second person in rank, the presumptive or apparent heir to a prince.] Defn: In Ireland, a lord or proprietor of a tract of land or of a castle, elected by a family, under the system of tanistry. This family [the O'Hanlons] were tanists of a large territory within the present county of Armagh. M. A. Lower. TANISTRY Tan"ist*ry, n. Etym: [See Tanist.] Defn: In Ireland, a tenure of family lands by which the proprietor had only a life estate, to which he was admitted by election. Note: The primitive intention seems to have been that the inheritance should descend to the oldest or most worthy of the blood and name of the deceased. This was, in reality, giving it to the strongest; and the practice often occasioned bloody feuds in families, for which reason it was abolished under James I. TANITE Ta"nite, n. Defn: A firm composition of emery and a certain kind of cement, used for making grinding wheels, slabs, etc. TANK Tank, n. Defn: A small Indian dry measure, averaging 240 grains in weight; also, a Bombay weight of 72 grains, for pearls. Simmonds. TANK Tank, n. Etym: [Pg. tanque, L. stangum a pool; or perhaps of East Indian origin. Cf. Stank, n.] Defn: A large basin or cistern; an artificial receptacle for liquids. Tank engine, a locomotive which carries the water and fuel it requires, thus dispensing with a tender. -- Tank iron, plate iron thinner than boiler plate, and thicker than sheet iron or stovepipe iron. -- Tank worm (Zoöl.), a small nematoid worm found in the water tanks of India, supposed by some to be the young of the Guinea worm. TANKA Tan"ka, n. (Naut.) Defn: A kind of boat used in Canton. It is about 25 feet long and is often rowed by women. Called also tankia. S. W. Williams. TANKAGE Tank"age, n. 1. The act or process of putting or storing in tanks. 2. Fees charged for storage in tanks. 3. The capacity or contents of a tank or tanks. 4. (Agric.) Waste matter from tanks; esp., the dried nitrogenous residue from tanks in which fat has been rendered, used as a fertilizer. TANKARD Tank"ard, n. Etym: [OF. tanquart; cf. OD. tanckaert; of uncertain origin.] Defn: A large drinking vessel,