[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

Phorus; -- so called because it fastens bits of stones and broken shells to its own shell, to such an extent as almost to conceal it. -- Common carrier (Law.) See under Common, a. CARRION Car"ri*on, n. Etym: [OE. caroyne, OF. caroigne, F. charogne, LL. caronia, fr. L. caro flesh Cf. Crone, Crony.] 1. The dead and putrefying body or flesh of an animal; flesh so corrupted as to be unfit for food. They did eat the dead carrions. Spenser. 2. A contemptible or worthless person; -- a term of reproach. [Obs.] "Old feeble carrions." Shak. CARRION Car"ri*on, a. Defn: Of or pertaining to dead and putrefying carcasses; feeding on carrion. A prey for carrion kites. Shak. Carrion beetle (Zoöl.), any beetle that feeds habitually on dead animals; -- also called sexton beetle and burying beetle. There are many kinds, belonging mostly to the family Silphidæ. -- Carrion buzzard (Zoöl.), a South American bird of several species and genera (as Ibycter, Milvago, and Polyborus), which act as scavengers. See Caracara. -- Carrion crow, the common European crow (Corvus corone) which feeds on carrion, insects, fruits, and seeds. CARROL Car"rol, n. (Arch.) Defn: See 4th Carol. CARROM Car"rom, n. (Billiards) Defn: See Carom. CARROMATA Car`ro*ma"ta, n. [Sp. in Phil. I.] Defn: In the Philippines, a light, two-wheeled, boxlike vehicle usually drawn by a single native pony and used to convey passengers within city limits or for traveling. It is the common public carriage. CARRONADE Car`ron*ade, n. Etym: [From Carron, in Scotland where it was first made.] (Med.) Defn: A kind of short cannon, formerly in use, designed to throw a large projectile with small velocity, used for the purpose of breaking or smashing in, rather than piercing, the object aimed at, as the side of a ship. It has no trunnions, but is supported on its carriage by a bolt passing through a loop on its under side. CARRON OIL Car"ron oil. Defn: A lotion of linseed oil and lime water, used as an application to burns and scalds; -- first used at the Carron iron works in Scotland. CARROT Car"rot, n. Etym: [F. carotte, fr. L. carota; cf. Gr. 1. (Bot.) Defn: An umbelliferous biennial plant (Daucus Carota), of many varieties. 2. The esculent root of cultivated varieties of the plant, usually spindle-shaped, and of a reddish yellow color. CARROTY Car"rot*y, a. Defn: Like a carrot in color or in taste; -- an epithet given to reddish yellow hair, etc. CARROW Car"row, n. Etym: [Ir & Gael. carach cunning.] Defn: A strolling gamester. [Ireland] Spenser. CARRY Car"ry, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Carried; p. pr. & vb. n. Carrying.] Etym: [OF. carier, charier, F. carrier, to cart, from OF. car, char, F. car, car. See Car.] 1. To convey or transport in any manner from one place to another; to bear; -- often with away or off. When he dieth he small carry nothing away. Ps. xiix. 17. Devout men carried Stephen to his burial. Acts viii, 2. Another carried the intelligence to Russell. Macaulay. The sound will be carried, at the least, twenty miles. Bacon. 2. To have or hold as a burden, while moving from place to place; to have upon or about one's person; to bear; as, to carry a wound; to carry an unborn child. If the ideas . . . were carried along with us in our minds. Locke. 3. To move; to convey by force; to impel; to conduct; to lead or guide. Go, carry Sir John Falstaff to the Fleet. Shak. He carried away all his cattle. Gen. xxxi. 18. Passion and revenge will carry them too far. Locke. 4. To transfer from one place (as a country, book, or column) to another; as, to carry the war from Greece into Asia; to carry an account to the ledger; to carry a number in adding figures. 5. To convey by extension or continuance; to extend; as, to carry the chimney through the roof; to carry a road ten miles farther. 6. To bear or uphold successfully through conflict, as a leader or principle; hence, to succeed in, as in a contest; to bring to a successful issue; to win; as, to carry an election. "The greater part carries it." Shak. The carrying of our main point. Addison. 7. To get possession of by force; to capture. The town would have been carried in the end. Bacon. 8. To contain; to comprise; to bear the aspect of ; to show or exhibit; to imply. He thought it carried something of argument in it. Watts. It carries too great an imputation of ignorance. Lacke. 9. To bear (one's self); to behave, to conduct or demean; -- with the refexive pronouns. He carried himself so insolently in the house, and out of the house, to all persons, that he became odious. Clarendon. 10. To bear the charges or burden of holding or having, as stocks, merchandise, etc., from one time to another; as, a merchant is carrying a large stock; a farm carries a mortgage; a broker carries stock for a customer; to carry a life insurance. Carry arms (Mil. Drill), a command of the Manual of Arms directing the soldier to hold his piece in the right hand, the barrel resting against the hollow of the shoulder in a nearly perpendicular position. In this position the soldier is said to stand, and the musket to be held, at carry. -- To carry all before one, to overcome all obstacles; to have uninterrupted success. -- To carry arms (a) To bear weapons. (b) To serve as a soldier. -- To carry away. (a) (Naut.) to break off; to lose; as, to carry away a fore-topmast. (b) To take possession of the mind; to charm; to delude; as, to be carried by music, or by temptation. -- To carry coals, to bear indignities tamely, a phrase used by early dramatists, perhaps from the mean nature of the occupation. Halliwell. -- To carry coals to Newcastle, to take things to a place where they already abound; to lose one's labor. -- To carry off (a) To remove to a distance. (b) To bear away as from the power or grasp of others. (c) To remove from life; as, the plague carried off thousands. -- To carry on (a) To carry farther; to advance, or help forward; to continue; as, to carry on a design. (b) To manage, conduct, or prosecute; as, to carry on husbandry or trade. -- To carry out. (a) To bear from within. (b) To put into execution; to bring to a successful issue. (c) To sustain to the end; to continue to the end. -- To carry through. (a) To convey through the midst of. (b) To support to the end; to sustain, or keep from falling, or being subdued. "Grace will carry us . . . through all difficulties." Hammond. (c) To complete; to bring to a succesful issue; to succeed. -- To carry up, to convey or extend in an upward course or direction; to build. -- To carry weight. (a) To be handicapped; to have an extra burden, as when one rides or runs. "He carries weight, he rides a race" Cowper. (b) To have influence. CARRY Car"ry, v. i. 1. To act as a bearer; to convey anything; as, to fetch and carry. 2. To have propulsive power; to propel; as, a gun or mortar carries well. 3. To hold the head; -- said of a horse; as, to carry well i. e., to hold the head high, with arching neck. 4. (Hunting) Defn: To have earth or frost stick to the feet when running, as a hare. Johnson. To carry on, to behave in a wild, rude, or romping manner. [Colloq.] CARRY Car"ry, n.; pl. Carries. Defn: A tract of land, over which boats or goods are carried between two bodies of navigable water; a carrying place; a portage. Etym: [U.S.] CARRYALL Car"ry*all`, n. Etym: [Corrupted fr. cariole.] Defn: A light covered carriage, having four wheels and seats for four or more persons, usually drawn by one horse. CARRYING Car"ry*ing, n. Defn: The act or business of transporting from one place to another. Carrying place, a carry; a portage. -- Carrying trade, the business of transporting goods, etc., from one place or country to another by water or land; freighting. We are rivals with them in . . . the carrying trade. Jay. CARRYK Car"ryk, n. Defn: A carack. [Obs.] Chaucer. CARRYTALE Car"ry*tale`, n. Defn: A talebearer. [R.] Shak. CARSE Carse, n. Etym: [Of Celtic origin; cf. W. cars bog, fen. carsen reed, Armor. kars, korsen, bog plant, reed.] Defn: Low, fertile land; a river valley. [Scot.] Jomieson. CART Cart, n. Etym: [AS. cræt; cf. W. cart, Ir. & Gael. cairt, or Icel. kartr. Cf. Car.] 1. A common name for various kinds of vehicles, as a Scythian dwelling on wheels, or a chariot. "Phoebus' cart." Shak. 2. A two-wheeled vehicle for the ordinary purposes of husbandry, or