[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

that circulates news, advertisements, proceedings of legislative bodies, public announcements, etc. NEWSROOM News"room`, n. Defn: A room where news is collected and disseminated, or periodicals sold; a reading room supplied with newspapers, magazines, etc. NEWS-VNDER News"-vnd`er, n. Defn: A seller of newspapers. NEWS-WRITER News"-writ`er, n. Defn: One who gathered news for, and wrote, news-letters. Macaulay. NEWSY News"y, a. Defn: Full of news; abounding in information as to current events. [Colloq.] NEWT Newt, n. Etym: [OE. ewt, evete, AS. efete, with n prefixed, an ewt being understood as a newt. Cf. Eft.] (Zoöl.) Defn: Any one of several species of small aquatic salamanders. The common British species are the crested newt (Triton cristatus) and the smooth newt (Lophinus punctatus). In America, Diemictylus viridescens is one of the most abundant species. NEW THOUGHT New Thought. Defn: Any form of belief in mental healing other than (1) Christian Science and (2) hypnotism or psychotherapy. Its central principle is affirmative thought, or suggestion, employed with the conviction that man produces changes in his health, his finances, and his life by the adoption of a favorable mental attitude. AS a therapeutic doctrine it stands for silent and absent mental treatment, and the theory that all diseases are mental in origin. As a cult it has its unifying idea the inculcation of workable optimism in contrast with the "old thought" of sin, evil, predestination, and pessimistic resignation. The term is essentially synonymous with the term High Thought, used in England. NEWTONIAN New*to"ni*an, a. Defn: Of or pertaining to Sir Isaac Newton, or his discoveries. Newtonian philosophy, the philosophy of Sir Isaac Newton; -- applied to the doctrine of the universe as expounded in Newton's "Principia," to the modern or experimental philosophy (as opposed to the theories of Descartes and others), and, most frequently, to the mathematical theory of universal gravitation. -- Newtonian telescope (Astron.), a reflecting telescope, in which rays from the large speculum are received by a plane mirror placed diagonally in the axis, and near the open end of the tube, and thrown at right angles toward one side of the tube, where the image is formed and viewed through the eyeplace. -- Newtonian theory of light. See Note under Light. NEWTONIAN New*to"ni*an, n. Defn: A follower of Newton. NEW-YEAR New"-year`, a. Defn: Of or pertaining to, or suitable for, the commencement of the year; as, New-year gifts or odes. NEW YEAR'S DAY New" Year's` Day". Defn: the first day of a calendar year; the first day of January. Often colloquially abbreviated to New year's or new year. NEW ZEALAND New` Zea"land. Defn: A group of islands in the South Pacific Ocean. New Zealand flax. (a) (Bot.) A tall, liliaceous herb (Phormium tenax), having very long, sword-shaped, distichous leaves which furnish a fine, strong fiber very valuable for cordage and the like. (b) The fiber itself. -- New Zealand tea (Bot.), a myrtaceous shrub (Leptospermum scoparium) of New Zealand and Australia, the leaves of which are used as a substitute for tea. NEXIBLE Nex"i*ble, a. Etym: [L. nexibilis, from nectere, nexum, to bind.] Defn: That may be knit together. [R.] NEXT Next, a., superl. of Nigh. Etym: [AS. n, niéhst, n, superl. of neáh nigh. See Nigh.] 1. Nearest in place; having no similar object intervening. Chaucer. Her princely guest Was next her side; in order sat the rest. Dryden. Fear followed me so hard, that I fled the next way. Bunyan. 2. Nearest in time; as, the next day or hour. 3. Adjoining in a series; immediately preceding or following in order. None could tell whose turn should be the next. Gay. 4. Nearest in degree, quality, rank, right, or relation; as, the next heir was an infant. The man is near of kin unto us, one of our next kinsmen. Ruth ii. 20. Note: Next is usually followed by to before an object, but to is sometimes omitted. In such cases next in considered by many grammarians as a preposition. Next friend (Law), one who represents an infant, a married woman, or any person who can not appear sui juris, in a suit at law. NEXT Next, adv. Defn: In the time, place, or order nearest or immediately suceeding; as, this man follows next. NEXUS Nex"us, n. Etym: [L.] Defn: Connection; tie. Man is doubtless one by some subtile nexus ... extending from the new-born infant to the superannuated dotard. De Quincey. NEZ PERCES Nez" Per`cés", pl.; sing. Nez PercÉ (. Etym: [F., pierced noses.] (Ethnol.) Defn: A tribe of Indians, mostly inhabiting Idaho. NGINA Ngi"na, n. Etym: [Native name.] Defn: The gorilla. NIAGARA PERIOD Ni*ag"a*ra pe"ri*od. (Geol.) Defn: A subdivision or the American Upper Silurian system, embracing the Medina, Clinton, and Niagara epoch. The rocks of the Niagara epoch, mostly limestones, are extensively distributed, and at Niagara Falls consist of about eighty feet of shale supporting a greater thickness of limestone, which is gradually undermined by the removal of the shale. See Chart of Geology. NIAS Ni"as, n. Etym: [F. niais. See Eyas.] Defn: A young hawk; an eyas; hence, an unsophisticated person. [Obs.] NIB Nib, n. Etym: [A variabt of neb.] 1. A small and pointed thing or part; a point; a prong. "The little nib or fructifying principle." Sir T. Browne. 2. (Zoöl.) Defn: The bill or beak of a bird; the neb. 3. The points of a pen; also, the pointed part of a pen; a short pen adapted for insertion in a holder. 4. One of the handles which project from a scythe snath; also, [Prov. Eng.], the shaft of a wagon. NIB Nib, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Nebbed; p. pr. & vb. n. Nibbing.] Defn: To furnish with a nib; to point; to mend the point of; as, to nib a pen. NIBBED Nibbed, a. Defn: Having a nib or point. NIBBLE Nib"ble, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Nibbled; p. pr. & vb. n. Nibbling.] Etym: [Cf. Nip.] Defn: To bite by little at a time; to seize gently with the mouth; to eat slowly or in small bits. Thy turfy mountains, where live nibbling sheep. Shak. NIBBLE Nib"ble, v. t. Defn: To bite upon something gently or cautiously; to eat a little of a thing, as by taking small bits cautiously; as, fishes nibble at the bait. Instead of returning a full answer to my book, he manifestly falls a- nibbling at one single passage. Tillotson. NIBBLE Nib"ble, n. Defn: A small or cautious bite. NIBBLER Nib"bler, n. Defn: One who, or that which, nibbles. NIBBLINGLY Nib"bling*ly, adv. Defn: In a nibbling manner; cautiously. NIBELUNGENLIED Ni"be*lung`en*lied`, n. [G. See Nibelungs; Lied.] Defn: A great medieval German epic of unknown authorship containing traditions which refer to the Burgundians at the time of Attila (called Etzel in the poem) and mythological elements pointing to heathen times. NIBELUNGS Ni"be*lungs, n. pl.; sing. Nibelung . Defn: In German mythology, the children of the mist, a race of dwarfs or demonic beings, the original possessors of the famous hoard and ring won by Siegfrid; also, the Burgundian kings in the Nibelungenlied. NIBLICK Nib"lick, n. Defn: A kind of golf stick used to lift the ball out of holes, ruts, etc. NICAGUA Ni*ca"gua, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: The laughing falcon. See under laughing. NICARAGUA WOOD Nic`a*ra"gua wood`. Defn: Brazil wood. NICCOLITE Nic"co*lite, n. Etym: [from NL. niccolum nickel.] (Min.) Defn: A mineral of a copper-red color and metallic luster; an arsenide of nickel; -- called also coppernickel, kupfernickel. NICE Nice, a. [Compar. Nicer; superl. Nicest.] Etym: [OE., foolish, fr. OF. nice ignorant, fool, fr. L. nescius ignorant; ne not + scius knowing, scire to know. perhaps influenced by E. nesh delicate, soft. See No, and Science.] 1. Foolish; silly; simple; ignorant; also, weak; effeminate. [Obs.] Gower. But say that we ben wise and nothing nice. Chaucer. 2. Of trifling moment; nimportant; trivial. [Obs.] The letter was not nice, but full of charge Of dear import. Shak. 3. Overscrupulous or exacting; hard to please or satisfy; fastidious in small matters. Curious not knowing, not exact but nice. Pope. And to taste Think not I shall be nice. Milton. 4. Delicate; refined; dainty; pure. Dear love, continue nice and chaste. Donne. A nice and subtile happiness. Milton. 5. Apprehending slight diffferences or delicate distinctions; distinguishing accurately or minutely; carefully discriminating; as, a nice taste or judgment. "Our author happy in a judge so nice." Pope. "Nice verbal criticism." Coleridge. 6. Done or made with careful labor; suited to excite admiration on account of exactness; evidencing great skill; exact; fine; finished; as, nice proportions, nice workmanship, a nice application; exactly or fastidiously discriminated; requiring close discrimination; as, a nice point of law, a nice distinction in philosophy. The difference is too nice Where ends the virtue, or begins the vice. Pope. 7. Pleasing; agreeable; gratifying; delightful; good; as, a nice party; a nice excursion; a nice person; a nice day; a nice sauce, etc. [Loosely & Colloquially] To make nice of, to be scrupulous about. [Obs.] Shak. Syn. -- Dainty; delicate; exquisite;