[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

travels for the purpose of receiving orders for merchants, making collections, etc. 3. (Mach.) Defn: A traveling crane. See under Crane. 4. (Spinning) Defn: The metal loop which travels around the ring surrounding the bobbin, in a ring spinner. 5. (Naut.) Defn: An iron encircling a rope, bar, spar, or the like, and sliding thereon. Traveler's joy (Bot.), the Clematis vitalba, a climbing plant with white flowers. -- Traveler's tree. (Bot.) See Ravenala. TRAVEL-TAINTED Trav"el-taint`ed, a. Defn: Harassed; fatigued with travel. [Obs.] Shak. TRAVERS Trav"ers, adv. Etym: [F. travers, breadth, extent from side, à travers, en travers, de travers, across, athwart. See Traverse, a.] Defn: Across; athwart. [Obs.] The earl . . . caused . . . high trees to be hewn down, and laid travers one over another. Ld. Berners. TRAVERSABLE Trav"ers*a*ble, a. 1. Capable of being traversed, or passed over; as, a traversable region. 2. Deniable; specifically (Law), liable to legal objection; as, a traversable presentment. Sir M. Hale. TRAVERSE Trav"erse, a. Etym: [OF. travers, L. transversus, p. p. of transvertere to turn or direct across. See Transverse, and cf. Travers.] Defn: Lying across; being in a direction across something else; as, paths cut with traverse trenches. Oak . . . being strong in all positions, may be better trusted in cross and traverse work. Sir H. Wotton. The ridges of the fallow field traverse. Hayward. Traverse drill (Mach.), a machine tool for drilling slots, in which the work or tool has a lateral motion back and forth; also, a drilling machine in which the spindle holder can be adjusted laterally. TRAVERSE Trav"erse, adv. Defn: Athwart; across; crosswise. TRAVERSE Trav"erse, n. Etym: [F. traverse. See Traverse, a.] 1. Anything that traverses, or crosses. Specifically: -- (a) Something that thwarts, crosses, or obstructs; a cross accident; as, he would have succeeded, had it not been for unlucky traverses not under his control. (b) A barrier, sliding door, movable screen, curtain, or the like. Men drinken and the travers draw anon. Chaucer. And the entrance of the king, The first traverse was drawn. F. Beaumont. (c) (Arch.) Defn: A gallery or loft of communication from side to side of a church or other large building. Gwilt. (d) (Fort.) A work thrown up to intercept an enfilade, or reverse fire, along exposed passage, or line of work. (e) (Law) A formal denial of some matter of fact alleged by the opposite party in any stage of the pleadings. The technical words introducing a traverse are absque hoc, without this; that is, without this which follows. (f) (Naut.) The zigzag course or courses made by a ship in passing from one place to another; a compound course. (g) (Geom.) A line lying across a figure or other lines; a transversal. (h) (Surv.) A line surveyed across a plot of ground. (i) (Gun.) The turning of a gun so as to make it point in any desired direction. 2. A turning; a trick; a subterfuge. [Obs.] To work, or solve, a traverse (Naut.), to reduce a series of courses or distances to an equivalent single one; to calculate the resultant of a traverse. -- Traverse board (Naut.), a small board hung in the steerage, having the points of the compass marked on it, and for each point as many holes as there are half hours in a watch. It is used for recording the courses made by the ship in each half hour, by putting a peg in the corresponding hole. -- Traverse jury (Law), a jury that tries cases; a petit jury. -- Traverse sailing (Naut.), a sailing by compound courses; the method or process of finding the resulting course and distance from a series of different shorter courses and distances actually passed over by a ship. -- Traverse table. (a) (Naut. & Surv.) A table by means of which the difference of latitude and departure corresponding to any given course and distance may be found by inspection. It contains the lengths of the two sides of a right-angled triangle, usually for every quarter of a degree of angle, and for lengths of the hypothenuse, from 1 to 100. (b) (Railroad) A platform with one or more tracks, and arranged to move laterally on wheels, for shifting cars, etc., from one line of track to another. TRAVERSE Trav"erse, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Traversed; p. pr. & vb. n. Traversing.] Etym: [Cf. F. traverser. See Traverse, a.] 1. To lay in a cross direction; to cross. The parts should be often traversed, or crossed, by the flowing of the folds. Dryden. 2. To cross by way of opposition; to thwart with obstacles; to obstruct; to bring to naught. I can not but . . . admit the force of this reasoning, which I yet hope to traverse. Sir W. Scott. 3. To wander over; to cross in traveling; as, to traverse the habitable globe. What seas you traversed, and what fields you fought. Pope. 4. To pass over and view; to survey carefully. My purpose is to traverse the nature, principles, and properties of this detestable vice -- ingratitude. South. 5. (Gun.) Defn: To turn to the one side or the other, in order to point in any direction; as, to traverse a cannon. 6. (Carp.) Defn: To plane in a direction across the grain of the wood; as, to traverse a board. 7. (Law) Defn: To deny formally, as what the opposite party has alleged. When the plaintiff or defendant advances new matter, he avers it to be true, and traverses what the other party has affirmed. To traverse an indictment or an office is to deny it. And save the expense of long litigious laws, Where suits are traversed, and so little won That he who conquers is but last undone. Dryden. To traverse a yard (Naut.), to brace it fore and aft. TRAVERSE Trav"erse, v. i. 1. To use the posture or motions of opposition or counteraction, as in fencing. To see thee fight, to see thee foin, to see thee traverse. Shak. 2. To turn, as on a pivot; to move round; to swivel; as, the needle of a compass traverses; if it does not traverse well, it is an unsafe guide. 3. To tread or move crosswise, as a horse that throws his croup to one side and his head to the other. TRAVERSE DRILL Trav"erse drill. (Mach.) Defn: A machine tool for drilling slots, in which the work or tool has a lateral motion back and forth; also, a drilling machine in which the spindle holder can be adjusted laterally. TRAVERSER Trav"ers*er, n. 1. One who, or that which, traverses, or moves, as an index on a scale, and the like. 2. (Law) Defn: One who traverses, or denies. 3. (Railroad) Defn: A traverse table. See under Traverse, n. TRAVERSING Trav"ers*ing, a. Defn: Adjustable laterally; having a lateral motion, or a swinging motion; adapted for giving lateral motion. Traversing plate (Mil.), one of two thick iron plates at the hinder part of a gun carriage, where the handspike is applied in traversing the piece. Wilhelm. -- Traversing platform (Mil.), a platform for traversing guns. TRAVERTINE Trav"er*tine, n. Etym: [F. travertin, It. travertino, tiburtino, L. lapis Tiburtinus, fr. Tibur an ancient town of Latium, now Tivoli.] (Min.) Defn: A white concretionary form of calcium carbonate, usually hard and semicrystalline. It is deposited from the water of springs or streams holding lime in solution. Extensive deposits exist at Tivoli, near Rome. TRAVESTY Trav"es*ty, a. Etym: [F. travesti, p. p. of travestir to disguise, to travesty, It. travestire, fr. L. trans across, over + vestire to dress, clothe. See Vest.] Defn: Disguised by dress so as to be ridiculous; travestied; -- applied to a book or shorter composition. [R.] TRAVESTY Trav"es*ty, n.; pl. Travesties (. Defn: A burlesque translation or imitation of a work. The second edition is not a recast, but absolutely a travesty of the first. De Quincey. TRAVESTY Trav"es*ty, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Travestied; p. pr. & vb. n. Travesting.] Defn: To translate, imitate, or represent, so as to render ridiculous or ludicrous. I see poor Lucan travestied, not appareled in his Roman toga, but under the cruel shears of an English tailor. Bentley. TRAVOIS Tra`vois", n. [Cf. Travail.] 1. A primitive vehicle, common among the North American Indians, usually two trailing poles serving as shafts and bearing a platform or net for a load. On the plains they will have horses dragging travoises; dogs with travoises, women and children loaded with impediments. Julian Ralph. 2. A logging sled. [Northern U. S. & Canada] TRAWL Trawl, v. i. Etym: [OF. trauler, troller, F. trôter, to drag about, to stroll about; probably of Teutonic origin. Cf. Troll, v. t.] Defn: To take fish, or other marine animals, with a trawl. TRAWL Trawl, n. 1. A fishing line, often extending a mile or more, having many short lines bearing hooks attached to it. It is used for catching cod, halibut, etc.; a boulter. [U. S.