[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

n. 1. (Logic) Defn: A proposition which arises from interchanging the terms of another, as by putting the predicate for the subject, and the subject for the predicate; as, no virtue is vice, no vice is virtue. Note: It should not (as is often done) be confounded with the contrary or opposite of a proposition, which is formed by introducing the negative not or no. 2. (Math.) Defn: A proposition in which, after a conclusion from something supposed has been drawn, the order is inverted, making the conclusion the supposition or premises, what was first supposed becoming now the conclusion or inference. Thus, if two sides of a sides of a triangle are equal, the angles opposite the sides are equal; and the converse is true, i.e., if these angles are equal, the two sides are equal. CONVERSELY Con"verse*ly ( or , adv. Defn: In a converse manner; with change of order or relation; reciprocally. J. S. Mill. CONVERSER Con*vers"er, n. Defn: One who engages in conversation. CONVERSIBLE Con*ver"si*ble, a. Defn: Capable of being converted or reversed. Hammond. CONVERSION Con*ver"sion, n. Etym: [L. conversio: cf. F. conversion. See Convert.] 1. The act of turning or changing from one state or condition to another, or the state of being changed; transmutation; change. Artificial conversion of water into ice. Bacon. The conversion of the aliment into fat. Arbuthnot. 2. The act of changing one's views or course, as in passing from one side, party, or from of religion to another; also, the state of being so changed. "Conversion to Christianity." Prescott. 3. (Law) Defn: An appropriation of, and dealing with the property of another as if it were one's own, without right; as, the conversion of a horse. Or bring my action of conversion And trover for my goods. Hudibras. 4. (Logic) Defn: The act of interchanging the terms of a proposition, as by putting the subject in the place of the predicate, or the contrary. 5. (Math.) Defn: A change or reduction of the form or value of a proposition; as, the conversion of equations; the conversion of proportions. 6. (Mil.) (a) A change of front, as a body of troops attacked in the flank. (b) A change of character or use, as of smoothbore guns into rifles. 7. (Theol.) Defn: A spiritual and moral change attending a change of belief with conviction; a change of heart; a change from the service of the world to the service of God; a change of the ruling disposition of the soul, involving a transformation of the outward life. He oft Frequented their assemblies, . . . and to them preached Conversion and repentance, as to souls In prison under judgments imminent. Milton. CONVERSIVE Con*ver"sive, a. 1. Capable of being converted or changed. 2. Ready to converse; social. [Archaic] Feltham. CONVERT Con*vert", v. t. [imp. & p.p. Converted; p.pr. & vb.n. Converting.] Etym: [L. convertere, -versum; con- + vertere to turn: cf. F. convertir. See Verse.] 1. To cause to turn; to turn. [Obs.] O, which way shall I first convert myself B. Jonson. 2. To change or turn from one state or condition to another; to alter in form, substance, or quality; to transform; to transmute; as, to convert water into ice. If the whole atmosphere were converted into water. T. Burnet. That still lessens The sorrow, and converts it nigh to joy. Milton. 3. To change or turn from one belief or course to another, as from one religion to another or from one party or sect to another. No attempt was made to convert the Moslems. Prescott. 4. To produce the spiritual change called conversion in (any one); to turn from a bad life to a good one; to change the heart and moral character of (any one) from the controlling power of sin to that of holiness. He which converteth the sinner from the error of his way shall save a soul from death. Lames v. 20. 5. To apply to any use by a diversion from the proper or intended use; to appropriate dishonestly or illegally. When a bystander took a coin to get it changed, and converted it, [it was] held no larceny. Cooley. 6. To exchange for some specified equivalent; as, to convert goods into money. 7. (Logic) Defn: To change (one proposition) into another, so that what was the subject of the first becomes the predicate of the second. 8. To turn into another language; to translate. [Obs.] Which story . . . Catullus more elegantly converted. B. Jonson. Converted guns, cast-iron guns lined with wrought-iron or steel tubes. Farrow. -- Converting furnace (Steel Manuf.), a furnace in which wrought iron is converted into steel by cementation. Syn. -- To change; turn; transmute; appropriate. CONVERT Con*vert", v. i. Defn: To be turned or changed in character or direction; to undergo a change, physically or morally. If Nebo had had the preaching that thou hast, they [the Neboites] would have converted. Latimer. A red dust which converth into worms. Sandys. The public hope And eye to thee converting. Thomson. CONVERT Con"vert, n. 1. A person who is converted from one opinion or practice to another; a person who is won over to, or heartily embraces, a creed, religious system, or party, in which he has not previously believed; especially, one who turns from the controlling power of sin to that of holiness, or from unbelief to Christianity. The Jesuits did not persuade the converts to lay aside the use of images. Bp. Stillingfleet. 2. A lay friar or brother, permitted to enter a monastery for the service of the house, but without orders, and not allowed to sing in the choir. Syn. -- Proselyte; neophyte. -- Convert, Proselyte, Pervert. A convert is one who turns from what he believes to have been a decided error of faith or practice. Such a change may relate to religion, politics, or other subjects. properly considered, it is not confined to speculation alone, but affects the whole current of one's feelings and the tenor of his actions. As such a change carries with it the appearance of sincerity, the term convert is usually taken in a good sense. Proselyte is a term of more ambiguous use and application. It was first applied to an adherent of one religious system who had transferred himself externally to some other religious system; and is also applied to one who makes a similar transfer in respect to systems of philosophy or speculation. The term has little or no reference to the state of the heart. Pervert is a term of recent origin, designed to express the contrary of convert, and to stigmatize a person as drawn off perverted from the true faith. It has been more particulary applied by members of the Church of England to those who have joined the Roman Catholic Church. CONVERTEND Con`ver*tend", n. Etym: [L. convertenus to be converted.] (Logic) Defn: Any proposition which is subject to the process of conversion; -- so called in its relation to itself as converted, after which process it is termed the conversae. See Converse, n. (Logic). CONVERTER Con*vert"er, n. 1. One who converts; one who makes converts. 2. (Steel Manuf.) Defn: A retort, used in the Bessemer process, in which molten cast iron is decarburized and converted into steel by a blast of air forced through the liquid metal. CONVERTIBILITY Con*vert`i*bil"i*ty, n. Defn: The condition or quality of being convertible; capability of being exchanged; convertibleness. The mutual convertibility of land into money, and of money into land. Burke. CONVERTIBLE Con*vert"i*ble, a. Etym: [L. convertibilis: cf. F. convertible.] 1. Capable of being converted; susceptible of change; transmutable; transformable. Minerals are not convertible into another species, though of the same genus. Harvey. 2. Capable of being exchanged or interchanged; reciprocal; interchangeable. So long as we are in the regions of nature, miraculous and improbable, miraculous and incredible, may be allowed to remain convertible terms. Trench. CONVERTIBLENESS Con*vert"i*ble*ness, n. Defn: The state of being convertible; convertibility. CONVERTIBLY Con*vert"i*bly, adv. Defn: In a convertible manner. CONVERTITE Con"vert*ite, n. Etym: [Cf. It. convertito, p.p. of convertire to convert.] Defn: A convert. [Obs.] Shak. CONVEX Con"vex, a. Etym: [L. convexus vaulted, arched, convex, concave, fr. convehere to bring together: cf. F. convexe. See Vehicle.] Defn: Rising or swelling into a spherical or rounded form; regularly protuberant or bulging; -- said of a spherical surface or curved line when viewed from without, in opposition to concave. Drops of water naturally form themselves into figures with a convex surface. Whewell. Double convex, convex on both sides; convexo-convex. CONVEX Con"vex, n. Defn: A convex body or surface. Half heaven's convex glitters with the flame. Tickell. Note: This word was often pronounced con-vex' by early writers, as by Milton, and occasionallyby later poets. CONVEXED Con"vexed ( or ), a. Defn: Made convex; protuberant in a spherical form. Sir T. Browne. CONVEXEDLY Con*vex"ed*ly, dv. Defn: In a convex form; convexly. Sir T. Browne. CONVEXEDNESS Con*vex"ed*ness, n. Defn: Convexity. CONVEXITY Con*vex"i*ty, n.; pl. Convexities. Etym: [L.