[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

called coarse metal, fine metal, etc., according to the grade of fineness. On the exterior it is dark brown or black, but on a fresh surface is yellow or bronzy in color. 2. A dead or dull finish, as in gilding where the gold leaf is not burnished, or in painting where the surface is purposely deprived of gloss. MATTED Mat"ted, a. Etym: [See Matte.] Defn: Having a dull surface; unburnished; as, matted gold leaf or gilding. Matted glass, glass ornamented with figures on a dull ground. MATTED Mat"ted, a. Etym: [See 3d Mat.] 1. Covered with a mat or mats; as, a matted floor. 2. Tangled closely together; having its parts adhering closely together; as, matted hair. MATTER Mat"ter, n. Etym: [OE. matere, F. matière, fr. L. materia; perh. akin to L. mater mother. Cf. Mother, Madeira, Material.] 1. That of which anything is composed; constituent substance; material; the material or substantial part of anything; the constituent elements of conception; that into which a notion may be analyzed; the essence; the pith; the embodiment. He is the matter of virtue. B. Jonson. 2. That of which the sensible universe and all existent bodies are composed; anything which has extension, occupies space, or is perceptible by the senses; body; substance. Note: Matter is usually divided by philosophical writers into three kinds or classes: solid, liquid, and aëriform. Solid substances are those whose parts firmly cohere and resist impression, as wood or stone. Liquids have free motion among their parts, and easily yield to impression, as water and wine. Aëriform substances are elastic fluids, called vapors and gases, as air and oxygen gas. 3. That with regard to, or about which, anything takes place or is done; the thing aimed at, treated of, or treated; subject of action, discussion, consideration, feeling, complaint, legal action, or the like; theme. "If the matter should be tried by duel." Bacon. Son of God, Savior of men ! Thy name Shall be the copious matter of my song. Milton. Every great matter they shall bring unto thee, but every small matter they shall judge. Ex. xviii. 22. 4. That which one has to treat, or with which one has to do; concern; affair; business. To help the matter, the alchemists call in many vanities out of astrology. Bacon. Some young female seems to have carried matters so far, that she is ripe for asking advice. Spectator. 5. Affair worthy of account; thing of consequence; importance; significance; moment; -- chiefly in the phrases what matter no matter, and the like. A prophet some, and some a poet, cry; No matter which, so neither of them lie. Dryden. 6. Inducing cause or occasion, especially of anything disagreeable or distressing; difficulty; trouble. And this is the matter why interpreters upon that passage in Hosea will not consent it to be a true story, that the prophet took a harlot to wife. Milton. 7. Amount; quantity; portion; space; -- often indefinite. Away he goes, . . . a matter of seven miles. L' Estrange. I have thoughts to tarry a small matter. Congreve. No small matter of British forces were commanded over sea the year before. Mi lton. 8. Substance excreted from living animal bodies; that which is thrown out or discharged in a tumor, boil, or abscess; pus; purulent substance. 9. (Metaph.) Defn: That which is permanent, or is supposed to be given, and in or upon which changes are effected by psychological or physical processes and relations; -- opposed to form. Mansel. 10. (Print.) Defn: Written manuscript, or anything to be set in type; copy; also, type set up and ready to be used, or which has been used, in printing. Dead matter (Print.), type which has been used, or which is not to be used, in printing, and is ready for distribution. -- Live matter (Print.), type set up, but not yet printed from. -- Matter in bar, Matter of fact. See under Bar, and Fact. -- Matter of record, anything recorded. -- Upon the matter, or Upon the whole matter, considering the whole; taking all things into view. Waller, with Sir William Balfour, exceeded in horse, but were, upon the whole matter, equal in foot. Clarendon. MATTER Mat"ter, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Mattered; p. pr. & vb. n. Mattering.] 1. To be of importance; to import; to signify. It matters not how they were called. Locke. 2. To form pus or matter, as an abscess; to maturate. [R.] "Each slight sore mattereth." Sir P. Sidney. MATTER Mat"ter, v. t. Defn: To regard as important; to take account of; to care for. [Obs.] He did not matter cold nor hunger. H. Brooke. MATTERLESS Mat"ter*less, a. 1. Not being, or having, matter; as, matterless spirits. Davies (Wit's Pilgr. ). 2. Unimportant; immaterial. [Obs.] MATTER-OF-FACT Mat"ter-of-fact", a. Defn: Adhering to facts; not turning aside from absolute realities; not fanciful or imaginative; commonplace; dry. MATTERY Mat"ter*y, a. 1. Generating or containing pus; purulent. 2. Full of substance or matter; important. B. Jonson. MATTING Mat"ting, n. Etym: [From Mat, v. t. & i.] 1. The act of interweaving or tangling together so as to make a mat; the process of becoming matted. 2. Mats, in general, or collectively; mat work; a matlike fabric, for use in covering floors, packing articles, and the like; a kind of carpeting made of straw, etc. 3. Materials for mats. 4. An ornamental border. See 3d Mat, 4. MATTING Mat"ting, n. Etym: [See Matte.] Defn: A dull, lusterless surface in certain of the arts, as gilding, metal work, glassmaking, etc. MATTOCK Mat"tock, n. Etym: [AS. mattuc; cf. W. matog.] Defn: An implement for digging and grubbing. The head has two long steel blades, one like an adz and the other like a narrow ax or the point of a pickax. 'T is you must dig with mattock and with spade. Shak. MATTOID Mat"toid, n. [It. matto mad (cf. L. mattus, matus, drunk) + -oid.] Defn: A person of congenitally abnormal mind bordering on insanity or degeneracy. MATTOIR Mat*toir", n. [F. matoir.] (Engraving) Defn: A kind of coarse punch with a rasplike face, used for making a rough surface on etching ground, or on the naked copper, the effect after biting being very similar to stippled lines. MATTOWACCA Mat`to*wac"ca, n. Etym: [Indian name.] (Zoöl.) Defn: An American clupeoid fish (Clupea mediocris), similar to the shad in habits and appearance, but smaller and less esteemed for food; -- called also hickory shad, tailor shad, fall herring, and shad herring. MATTRESS Mat"tress, n. Etym: [OF. materas, F. matelas, LL. matratium; cf. Sp. & Pg. almadraque, Pr. almatrac; all from Ar. matsrah a place where anything is thrown, what is thrown under something, fr. tsaraha to throw.] 1. A quilted bed; a bed stuffed with hair, moss, or other suitable material, and quilted or otherwise fastened. [Written also matress.] 2. (Hydraulic Engin.) Defn: A mass of interwoven brush, poles, etc., to protect a bank from being worn away by currents or waves. MATURANT Mat"u*rant, n. Etym: [L. maturans, p. pr. See Maturate.] (Med.) Defn: A medicine, or application, which promotes suppuration. MATURATE Mat"u*rate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Maturated; p. pr. & vb. n. Maturating.] Etym: [L. maturatus, p. p. of maturare to make ripe, fr. maturus ripe, mature. See Mature, v. & a.] 1. To bring to ripeness or maturity; to ripen. A tree may be maturated artificially. Fuller. 2. To promote the perfect suppuration of (an abscess). MATURATE Mat"u*rate, v. i. Defn: To ripen; to become mature; specif MATURATION Mat`u*ra"tion, n. Etym: [L. maturatio a hastening: cf. F. maturation.] Defn: The process of bringing, or of coming, to maturity; hence, specifically, the process of suppurating perfectly; the formation of pus or matter. MATURATIVE Mat"u*ra*tive, a. Etym: [Cf. F. maturatif.] Defn: Conducing to ripeness or maturity; hence, conducing to suppuration. MATURATIVE Mat"u*ra*tive, n. (Med.) Defn: A remedy promoting maturation; a maturant. MATURE Ma*ture", a. [Compar. Maturer; superl. Maturest.] Etym: [L. maturus; prob. akin to E. matin.] 1. Brought by natural process to completeness of growth and development; fitted by growth and development for any function, action, or state, appropriate to its kind; full-grown; ripe. Now is love mature in ear. Tennison. How shall I meet, or how accost, the sage, Unskilled in speech, nor yet mature of age Pope. 2. Completely worked out; fully digested or prepared; ready for action; made ready for destined application or use; perfected; as, a mature plan. This lies glowing, . . . and is almost mature for the violent breaking out. Shak. 3. Of or pertaining to a condition of full development; as, a man of mature years. 4. Come to, or in a state of, completed suppuration. Syn. -- Ripe; perfect; completed; prepared; digested; ready. -- Mature, Ripe. Both words describe fullness of growth. Mature brings to view the progressiveness of the process; ripe indicates the result. We speak of a thing as mature when thinking of the successive stayes through which it has passed; as ripe, when