[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

over the ice towards a mark. Curling . . . is an amusement of the winter, and played on the ice, by sliding from one mark to another great stones of 40 to 70 pounds weight, of a hemispherical form, with an iron or wooden handle at top. The object of the player is to lay his stone as near to the mark as possible, to guard that of his partner, which has been well laid before, or to strike off that of his antagonist. Pennant (Tour in Scotland. 1772). Curling irons, Curling tong, an instrument for curling the hair; -- commonly heated when used. CURLINGLY Curl"ing*ly, adv. Defn: With a curl, or curls. CURLY Curl"y (krl"), a. Defn: Curling or tending to curl; having curls; full of ripples; crinkled. CURLYCUE Curl"y*cue (krl"-k), n. Etym: [Cf. F. caracole.] Defn: Some thing curled or spiral,, as a flourish made with a pen on paper, or with skates on the ice; a trick; a frolicsome caper. [Sometimes written carlicue.] [ Colloq. U.S.] To cut a curlycue, to make a flourish; to cut a caper. I gave a flourishing about the room and cut a curlycue with my right foot. McClintock. CURMUDGEON Cur*mudg"eon (kr-mj"n), n. Etym: [OE. cornmudgin, where -mudgin is prob. from OF. muchier, mucier, F. musser to hide; of uncertain origin; cf. OE. muchares skulking thieves, E. miche, micher.] Defn: An avaricious, grasping fellow; a miser; a niggard; a churl. A gray-headed curmudgeon of a negro. W. Irving. CURMUDGEONLY Cur*mudg"eon*ly, a. Defn: Like a curmudgeon; niggardly; churlish; as, a curmudgeonly fellow. CURMURRING Cur*mur"ring (kr-mr"rng), n. Defn: Murmuring; grumbling; -- sometimes applied to the rumbling produced by a slight attack of the gripes. [Scot.] Burns. CURR Curr (kr), v. i. Etym: [Prob. imitative.] Defn: To coo. [Scot.] The owlets hoot, the owlets curr. Wordsworth. CURRANT Cur"rant (kr"rant), n. Etym: [F. corinthe (raisins de Corinthe raisins of Corinth) currant (in sense 1), from the city of Corinth in Greece, whence, probably, the small dried grape (1) was first imported, the Ribes fruit (2) receiving the name from its resemblance to that grape.] 1. A small kind of seedless raisin, imported from the Levant, chiefly from Zante and Cephalonia; -- used in cookery. 2. The acid fruit or berry of the Ribes rubrum or common red currant, or of its variety, the white currant. 3. (Bot.) Defn: A shrub or bush of several species of the genus Ribes (a genus also including the gooseberry); esp., the Ribes rubrum. Black currant,a shrub or bush (Ribes nigrum and R. floridum) and its black, strong-flavored, tonic fruit. -- Cherry currant, a variety of the red currant, having a strong, symmetrical bush and a very large berry. -- Currant borer (Zoöl.), the larva of an insect that bores into the pith and kills currant bushes; specif., the larvae of a small clearwing moth (Ægeria tipuliformis) and a longicorn beetle (Psenocerus supernotatus). -- Currant worm (Zoöl.), an insect larva which eats the leaves or fruit of the currant. The most injurious are the currant sawfly (Nematus ventricosus), introduced from Europe, and the spanworm (Eufitchia ribearia). The fruit worms are the larva of a fly (Epochra Canadensis), and a spanworm (Eupithecia). -- Flowering currant, Missouri currant, a species of Ribes (R. aureum), having showy yellow flowers. CURRENCY Cur"ren*cy (kr"rn-c), n.; pl. Currencies (-s. Etym: [Cf. LL. currentia a current, fr. L. currens, p. pr. of currere to run. See Current.] 1. A continued or uninterrupted course or flow like that of a sream; as, the currency of time. [Obs.] Ayliffe. 2. The state or quality of being current; general acceptance or reception; a passing from person to person, or from hand to hand; circulation; as, a report has had a long or general currency; the currency of bank notes. 3. That which is in circulation, or is given and taken as having or representing value; as, the currency of a country; a specie currency; esp., government or bank notes circulating as a substitute for metallic money. 4. Fluency; readiness of utterance. [Obs.] 5. Current value; general estimation; the rate at which anything is generally valued. He . . . takes greatness of kingdoms according to their bulk and currency, and not after intrinsic value. Bacon. The bare name of Englishman . . . too often gave a transient currency to the worthless and ungrateful. W. Irving. CURRENT Cur"rent (kr"rent), a. Etym: [OE. currant, OF. curant, corant, p. pr. of curre, corre, F. courre, courir, to run, from L. currere; perh. akin to E. horse. Cf. Course, Concur, Courant, Coranto.] 1. Running or moving rapidly. [Archaic] Like the current fire, that renneth Upon a cord. Gower. To chase a creature that was current then In these wild woods, the hart with golden horns. Tennyson. 2. Now passing, as time; as, the current month. 3. Passing from person to person, or from hand to hand; circulating through the community; generally received; common; as, a current coin; a current report; current history. That there was current money in Abraham's time is past doubt. Arbuthnot. Your fire-new stamp of honor is scarce current. Shak. His current value, which is less or more as men have occasion for him. Grew. 4. Commonly estimated or acknowledged. 5. Fitted for general acceptance or circulation; authentic; passable. O Buckingham, now do I play the touch To try if thou be current gold indeed. Shak. Account current. See under Account. -- Current money, lawful money. Abbott. CURRENT Cur"rent, n. Etym: [Cf. F. courant. See Current, a. ] 1. A flowing or passing; onward motion. Hence: A body of fluid moving continuously in a certain direction; a stream; esp., the swiftest part of it; as, a current of water or of air; that which resembles a stream in motion; as, a current of electricity. Two such silver currents, when they join, Do glorify the banks that bound them in. Shak. The surface of the ocean is furrowed by currents, whose direction . . . the navigator should know. Nichol. 2. General course; ordinary procedure; progressive and connected movement; as, the current of time, of events, of opinion, etc. Current meter, an instrument for measuring the velocity, force, etc., of currents. -- Current mill, a mill driven by a current wheel. -- Current wheel, a wheel dipping into the water and driven by the current of a stream or by the ebb and flow of the tide. Syn. -- Stream; course. See Stream. CURRENTLY Cur"rent*ly, adv. Defn: In a current manner; generally; commonly; as, it is currently believed. CURRENTNESS Cur"rent*ness, n. 1. The quality of being current; currency; circulation; general reception. 2. Easiness of pronunciation; fluency. [Obs.] When currentness [combineth] with staidness, how can the language . . . sound other than most full of sweetness Camden. CURRICLE Cur"ri*cle (kr"r-k'l), n. Etym: [L.curriculum a running, a race course, fr. currere to run. See Current, and cf. Curriculum.] 1. A small or short course. Upon a curricle in this world depends a long course of the next. Sir T. Browne. 2. A two-wheeled chaise drawn by two horses abreast. CURRICULUM Cur*ric"u*lum (kr-rk"-lm), n.; pl. E. Curriculums (-lCurricula (-l. Etym: [L. See Curricle.] 1. A race course; a place for running. 2. A course; particularly, a specified fixed course of study, as in a university. CURRIE Cur"rie (kr"r), n. & v. Defn: See 2d & 3d Curry. CURRIED Cur"ried (-r, p.a. Etym: [See Curry, v. t., and Curry, n.] 1. Dressed by currying; cleaned; prepared. 2. Prepared with curry; as, curried rice, fowl, etc. CURRIER Cur"ri*er (k"r-r), n. Etym: [From 1st Curry.] Defn: One who curries and dresses leather, after it is tanned. CURRISH Cur"rish (kr"rsh), a. Etym: [From Cur.] Defn: Having the qualities, or exhibiting the characteristics, of a cur; snarling; quarrelsome; snappish; churlish; hence, also malicious; malignant; brutal. Thy currish spirit Governed a wolf. Shak. Some currish plot, -- some trick. Lockhart. -- Cur"rish*ly, adv. -- Cur"rish*ness, n. CURRY Cur"ry (kr"r), v. t. [imp. & p.p. Curried (-rd); p.pr. & vb. n. Currying.] Etym: [OE. curraien, curreien, OF. cunreer, correier, to prepare, arrange, furnish, curry (a horse), F. corroyer to curry (leather) (cf. OF. conrei, conroi, order, arrangement, LL. conredium); cor- (L.com-) + roi, rei, arrangement, order; prob. of German origin, and akin to E. ready. See Ready, Greith, and cf. Corody, Array.] 1. To dress or prepare for use by a process of scraping, cleansing, beating, smoothing, and coloring; -- said of leather. 2. To dress the hair or coat of (a horse, ox, or the like) with a currycomb and brush; to comb, as a horse, in order to make clean. Your short horse is soon curried. Beau. & FL. 3. To beat or bruise; to drub; -- said of persons. I have seen him curry a fellow's carcass handsomely. Beau. & FL. To curry favor, to seek to gain favor by flattery or attentions. See Favor, n. CURRY Cur"ry, n. Etym: [Tamil kari.] [Written also currie.] 1. (Cookery) Defn: A kind of sauce much used in India, containing