[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

bench with a high back. 3. A place made lower than the rest; a wide step or platform lower than some other part. And from the bottom upon the ground, even to the lower settle, shall be two cubits, and the breadth one cubit. Ezek. xliii. 14. Settle bed, a bed convertible into a seat. [Eng.] SETTLE Set"tle, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Settled; p. pr. & vb. n. Settling.] Etym: [OE. setlen, AS. setlan. sq. root154. See Settle, n. In senses 7, 8, and 9 perhaps confused with OE. sahtlen to reconcile, AS. sahtlian, fr. saht reconciliation, sacon to contend, dispute. Cf. Sake.] 1. To place in a fixed or permanent condition; to make firm, steady, or stable; to establish; to fix; esp., to establish in life; to fix in business, in a home, or the like. And he settled his countenance steadfastly upon him, until he was ashamed. 2 Kings viii. 11. (Rev. Ver.) The father thought the time drew on Of setting in the world his only son. Dryden. 2. To establish in the pastoral office; to ordain or install as pastor or rector of a church, society, or parish; as, to settle a minister. [U. S.] 3. To cause to be no longer in a disturbed condition; to render quiet; to still; to calm; to compose. God settled then the huge whale-bearing lake. Chapman. Hoping that sleep might settle his brains. Bunyan. 4. To clear of dregs and impurities by causing them to sink; to render pure or clear; -- said of a liquid; as, to settle coffee, or the grounds of coffee. 5. To restore or bring to a smooth, dry, or passable condition; -- said of the ground, of roads, and the like; as, clear weather settles the roads. 6. To cause to sink; to lower; to depress; hence, also, to render close or compact; as, to settle the contents of a barrel or bag by shaking it. 7. To determine, as something which is exposed to doubt or question; to free from unscertainty or wavering; to make sure, firm, or constant; to establish; to compose; to quiet; as, to settle the mind when agitated; to settle questions of law; to settle the succession to a throne; to settle an allowance. It will settle the wavering, and confirm the doubtful. Swift. 8. To adjust, as something in discussion; to make up; to compose; to pacify; as, to settle a quarrel. 9. To adjust, as accounts; to liquidate; to balance; as, to settle an account. 10. Hence, to pay; as, to settle a bill. [Colloq.] Abbott. 11. To plant with inhabitants; to colonize; to people; as, the French first settled Canada; the Puritans settled New England; Plymouth was settled in 1620. To settle on or upon, to confer upon by permanent grant; to assure to. "I . . . have settled upon him a good annuity." Addison. -- To settle the land (Naut.), to cause it to sink, or appear lower, by receding from it. Syn. -- To fix; establish; regulate; arrange; compose; adjust; determine; decide. SETTLE Set"tle, v. i. 1. To become fixed or permanent; to become stationary; to establish one's self or itself; to assume a lasting form, condition, direction, or the like, in place of a temporary or changing state. The wind came about and settled in the west. Bacon. Chyle . . . runs through all the intermediate colors until it settles in an intense red. Arbuthnot. 2. To fix one's residence; to establish a dwelling place or home; as, the Saxons who settled in Britain. 3. To enter into the married state, or the state of a householder. As people marry now and settle. Prior. 4. To be established in an employment or profession; as, to settle in the practice of law. 5. To become firm, dry, and hard, as the ground after the effects of rain or frost have disappeared; as, the roads settled late in the spring. 6. To become clear after being turbid or obscure; to clarify by depositing matter held in suspension; as, the weather settled; wine settles by standing. A government, on such occasions, is always thick before it settles. Addison. 7. To sink to the bottom; to fall to the bottom, as dregs of a liquid, or the sediment of a reserveir. 8. To sink gradually to a lower level; to subside, as the foundation of a house, etc. 9. To become calm; to cease from agitation. Till the fury of his highness settle, Come not before him. Shak. 10. To adjust differences or accounts; to come to an agreement; as, he has settled with his creditors. 11. To make a jointure for a wife. He sighs with most success that settles well. Garth. SETTLEDNESS Set"tled*ness, n. Defn: The quality or state of being settled; confirmed state. [R.] Bp. Hall. SETTLEMENT Set"tle*ment, n. 1. The act of setting, or the state of being settled. Specifically: - - (a) Establishment in life, in business, condition, etc.; ordination or installation as pastor. Every man living has a design in his head upon wealth power, or settlement in the world. L'Estrange. (b) The act of peopling, or state of being peopled; act of planting, as a colony; colonization; occupation by settlers; as, the settlement of a new country. (c) The act or process of adjusting or determining; composure of doubts or differences; pacification; liquidation of accounts; arrangement; adjustment; as, settlement of a controversy, of accounts, etc. (d) Bestowal, or giving possession, under legal sanction; the act of giving or conferring anything in a formal and permanent manner. My flocks, my fields, my woods, my pastures take, With settlement as good as law can make. Dryden. (e) (Law) Defn: A disposition of property for the benefit of some person or persons, usually through the medium of trustees, and for the benefit of a wife, children, or other relatives; jointure granted to a wife, or the act of granting it. 2. That which settles, or is settled, established, or fixed. Specifically: -- (a) Matter that subsides; settlings; sediment; lees; dregs. [Obs.] Fuller's earth left a thick settlement. Mortimer. (b) A colony newly established; a place or region newly settled; as, settlement in the West. (c) That which is bestowed formally and permanently; the sum secured to a person; especially, a jointure made to a woman at her marriage; also, in the United States, a sum of money or other property formerly granted to a pastor in additional to his salary. 3. (Arch.) (a) The gradual sinking of a building, whether by the yielding of the ground under the foundation, or by the compression of the joints or the material. (b) pl. Defn: Fractures or dislocations caused by settlement. 4. (Law) Defn: A settled place of abode; residence; a right growing out of residence; legal residence or establishment of a person in a particular parish or town, which entitles him to maintenance if a pauper, and subjects the parish or town to his support. Blackstone. Bouvier. Act of settlement (Eng. Hist.), the statute of 12 and 13 William III, by which the crown was limited to the present reigning house (the house of Hanover). Blackstone. SETTLER Set"tler, n. 1. One who settles, becomes fixed, established, etc. 2. Especially, one who establishes himself in a new region or a colony; a colonist; a planter; as, the first settlers of New England. 3. That which settles or finishes; hence, a blow, etc., which settles or decides a contest. [Colloq.] 4. A vessel, as a tub, in which something, as pulverized ore suspended in a liquid, is allowed to settle. SETTLING Set"tling, n. 1. The act of one who, or that which, settles; the act of establishing one's self, of colonizing, subsiding, adjusting, etc. 2. pl. Defn: That which settles at the bottom of a liquid; lees; dregs; sediment. Milton. Settling day, a day for settling accounts, as in the stock market. SET-TO Set"-to`, n. Defn: A contest in boxing, in an argument, or the like. [Colloq.] Halliwell. SETULA Set"u*la, n.; pl. Setulæ. Etym: [L. setula, saetula, dim. of seta, saeta, bristle.] Defn: A small, short hair or bristle; a small seta. SETULE Set"ule, n. Etym: [See Setula.] Defn: A setula. SETULOSE Set"u*lose`, a. Defn: Having small bristles or setæ. SETWALL Set"wall`, n. Etym: [CF. Cetewale.] (Bot.) Defn: A plant formerly valued for its restorative qualities (Valeriana officinalis, or V. Pyrenaica). [Obs.] [Written also setwal.] Chaucer. SEVEN Sev"en, a. Etym: [OE. seven, seoven, seofen, AS. seofon, seofan, seofen; akin to D. zeven, OS., Goth., & OHG. sibun, G. sieben, Icel. sjau, sjö, Sw. sju, Dan. syv, Lith. septyni, Russ. seme, W. saith, Gael. seachd, Ir. seacht, L. septem, Gr. saptan. sq. root305. Cf. Hebdomad, Heptagon, September.] Defn: One more than six; six and one added; as, seven days make one week. Seven sciences. See the Note under Science, n., 4. -- Seven stars (Astron.), the Pleiades. -- Seven wonders of the world. See under Wonders. -- Seven-year apple (Bot.), a rubiaceous shrub