[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

was he that made you to despose, Your oath, my lord, is vain and frivolous. Shak. DEPOSER De*pos"er, n. 1. One who deposes or degrades from office. 2. One who testifies or deposes; a deponent. DEPOSIT De*pos"it, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Depoited; p. pr. & vb. n. Depositing.] Etym: [L. depositus, p. p. of deponere. See Depone, and cf. Deposit, n.] 1. To lay down; to place; to put; to let fall or throw down (as sediment); as, a crocodile deposits her eggs in the sand; the waters deposited a rich alluvium. The fear is deposited in conscience. Jer. Taylor. 2. To lay up or away for safekeeping; to put up; to store; as, to deposit goods in a warehouse. 3. To lodge in some one's hands for sale keeping; to commit to the custody of another; to intrust; esp., to place in a bank, as a sum of money subject to order. 4. To lay aside; to rid one's self of. [Obs.] If what is written prove useful to you, to the depositing that which i can not deem an error. Hammond. Note: Both this verb and the noun following written deposite. DEPOSIT De*pos"it, n. Etym: [L. depositum, fr. depositus, p. p. of deponere: cf. F. dépôt, OF. depost. See Deposit, v. t., and cf. Depot.] 1. That is deposited, or laid or thrown down; as, a deposit in a flue; especially, matter precipitated from a solution (as the siliceous deposits of hot springs), or that which is mechanically deposited (as the mud, gravel, etc., deposits of a river). The deposit already formed affording to the succeeding portion of the charged fluid a basis. Kirwan. 2. (Mining) Defn: A natural occurrence of a useful mineral under the conditions to invite exploitation. Raymond. 3. That which is placed anywhere, or in any one's hands, for safe keeping; somthing intrusted to the care of another; esp., money lodged with a bank or banker, subject to order; anything given as pledge or security. 4. (Law) (a) A bailment of money or goods to be kept gratuitously for the bailor. (b) Money lodged with a party as earnest or security for the performance of a duty assumed by the person depositing. 5. A place of deposit; a depository. [R.] Bank of deposit. See under Bank. -- In deposit, or On deposit, in trust or safe keeping as a deposit; as, coins were recieved on deposit. DEPOSITARY De*pos"i*ta*ry, n.; pl. Depositaries. Etym: [L. depositarius, fr. deponere. See Deposit.] 1. One with whom anything is lodged in the trust; one who receives a deposit; -- the correlative of depositor. I . . . made you my guardians, my depositaries. Shak. The depositaries of power, who are mere delegates of the people.J.S. Mill. 2. A storehouse; a depository. Bp. Hurd. 3. (Law) Defn: One to whom goods are bailed, to be kept for the bailor without a recompense. Kent. DEPOSITION Dep`o*si"tion, n. Etym: [L. depositio, fr. deponere: cf. F. déposition. See Deposit.] 1. The act of depositing or deposing; the act of laying down or thrown down; precipitation. The deposition of rough sand and rolled pebbles. H. Miller. 2. The act of bringing before the mind; presentation. The influence of princes upon the dispositions of their courts needs not the deposition of their examples, since it hath the authority of a known principle. W. Montagu. 3. The act of setting aside a sovereign or a public officer; deprivation of authority and dignity; displacement; removal. Note: A deposition differs from an abdication, an abdication being voluntary, and a deposition compulsory. 4. That which is deposited; matter laid or thrown down; sediment; alluvial matter; as, banks are sometimes depositions of alluvial matter. 5. An opinion, example, or statement, laid down or asserted; a declaration. 6. (Law) Defn: The act of laying down one's testimony in writing; also, testimony laid or taken down in writting, under oath or affirmation, befor some competent officer, and in reply to interrogatories and cross-interrogatories. Syn. -- Deposition, Affidavit. Affidavit is the wider term. It denotes any authorized ex parte written statement of a person, sworn to or affirmed before some competent magistrate. It is made without cross- examination, and requires no notice to an opposing party. It is generally signed by the party making it, and may be drawn up by himself or any other person. A deposition is the written testimony of a witness, taken down in due form of law, and sworn to or affirmed by the deponent. It must be taken before some authorized magistrate, and upon a prescribed or reasonable notice to the opposing party, that may attend and cross-examine. It is generally written down from the mouth of the witness by the magistrate, or some person for him, and in his presence. DEPOSITOR De*pos"i*tor, n. Etym: [L., fr. deponere. See Depone.] Defn: One who makes a deposit, especially of money in bank; -- the correlative of depository. DEPOSITORY De*pos"i*to*ry, n.; pl. Depositories (. 1. A place where anything is deposited for sale or keeping; as, warehouse is a depository for goods; a clerk's office is a depository for records. 2. One with whom something is deposited; a depositary. I am the sole depository of my own secret, and it shall perish with me. Junius. DEPOSITUM De*pos"i*tum, n. Etym: [L.] Defn: Deposit. DEPOSITURE De*pos"i*ture, n. Defn: The act of depositing; deposition. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne. DEPOT De"pot, n. Etym: [F. dépôt, OF. depost, fr. L. depositum a deposit. See Deposit, n.] 1. A place of deposit storing of goods; a warehouse; a storehouse. The islands of Guernsey and Jersey are at present the great depots of this kingdom. Brit Critic (1794). 2. (Mil.) (a) A military station where stores and provisions are kept, or where recruits are assembled and drilled. (b) (Eng. & France) The headquarters of a regiment, where all supplies are recieved and distributed, recruits are assembled and instructed, infirm or disabled soldiers are taken care of, and all the wants of the regiment are provided for. 3. A railway station; a building for the accommodation and protection of railway passenges or freight. [U. S.] Syn. -- See Station. DEPPER Dep"per, a. Defn: Deeper. [Obs.] Chaucer. DEPRAVATION Dep`ra*va"tion, n. Etym: [L. depravitio, from depravare: cf. F. dépravation. See Deprave.] 1. Detraction; depreciation. [Obs.] To stubborn critics, apt, without a theme, For depravation. Shak. 2. The act of depraving, or making anything bad; the act of corrupting. 3. The state of being depraved or degenerated; degeneracy; depravity. The depravation of his moral character destroyed his judgment. Sir G. C. Lewis. 4. (Med.) Defn: Change for the worse; deterioration; morbid perversion. Syn. -- Depravity; corruption. See Depravity. DEPRAVE De*prave", n. t. [imp. & p. p. Depraved; p. pr. & vb. n. Depraving.] Etym: [L. depravare, depravatum; de- + pravus crooked, distorted, perverse, wicked.] 1. To speak ill of; to depreciate; to malign; to revile. [Obs.] And thou knowest, conscience, I came not to chide Nor deprave thy person with a proud heart. Piers Plowman. 2. To make bad or worse; to vitiate; to corrupt. Whose pride depraves each other better part. Spenser. Syn. -- To corrupt; vitiate; contaminate; pollute. DEPRAVEDLY De*prav"ed*ly, adv. Defn: In a depraved manner. DEPRAVEDNESS De*prav"ed*ness, n. Defn: Depravity. Hammond. DEPRAVEMENT De*prave"ment, n. Defn: Depravity. [Obs.] Milton. DEPRAVER De*prav"er, n. Defn: One who deprave or corrupts. DEPRAVINGLY De*prav"ing*ly, adv. Defn: In a depraving manner. DEPRAVITY De*prav"i*ty, n. Etym: [From Deprave: cf. L. pravitas crookedness, perverseness.] Defn: The stae of being depraved or corrupted; a vitiated state of moral character; general badness of character; wickedness of mind or heart; absence of religious feeling and principle. Total depravity. See Original sin, and Calvinism. Syn. -- Corruption; vitiation; wickedness; vice; contamination; degeneracy. -- Depravity, Depravation, Corruption. Depravilty is a vitiated state of mind or feeling; as, the depravity of the human heart; depravity of public morals. Depravation points to the act or process of making depraved, and hence to the end thus reached; as, a gradual depravation of principle; a depravation of manners, of the heart, etc. Corruption is the only one of these words which applies to physical substances, and in reference to these denotes the process by which their component parts are dissolved. Hence, when figuratively used, it denotes an utter vitiation of principle or feeling. Depravity applies only to the mind and heart: we can speak of a depraved taste, or a corrupt taste; in the first we introduce the notion that there has been the influence of bad training to pervert; in the second, that there is a want of true principle to pervert; in the second, that there is a want of true principles to decide. The other two words have a wider use: we can speak of the depravation or the corruption of taste and public sentiment. Depravity is more or less open; corruption is more or less disguised in its operations. What is depraved requires to be reformed; what is corrupt requires to be purified. DEPRECABLE Dep"re*ca*ble, a. Etym: [L.