[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

low but alive. BANK Bank, n. Etym: [Prob. fr. F. banc. Of German origin, and akin to E. bench. See Bench.] 1. A bench, as for rowers in a galley; also, a tier of oars. Placed on their banks, the lusty Trojan sweep Neptune's smooth face, and cleave the yielding deep. Waller. 2. (Law) (a) The bench or seat upon which the judges sit. (b) The regular term of a court of law, or the full court sitting to hear arguments upon questions of law, as distinguished from a sitting at Nisi Prius, or a court held for jury trials. See Banc. Burrill. 3. (Printing) Defn: A sort of table used by printers. 4. (Music) Defn: A bench, or row of keys belonging to a keyboard, as in an organ. Knight. BANK Bank, n. Etym: [F. banque, It. banca, orig. bench, table, counter, of German origin, and akin to E. bench; cf. G. bank bench, OHG. banch. See Bench, and cf. Banco, Beach.] 1. An establishment for the custody, loan, exchange, or issue, of money, and for facilitating the transmission of funds by drafts or bills of exchange; an institution incorporated for performing one or more of such functions, or the stockholders (or their representatives, the directors), acting in their corporate capacity. 2. The building or office used for banking purposes. 3. A fund from deposits or contributions, to be used in transacting business; a joint stock or capital. [Obs.] Let it be no bank or common stock, but every man be master of his own money. Bacon. 4. (Gaming) Defn: The sum of money or the checks which the dealer or banker has as a fund, from which to draw his stakes and pay his losses. 5. In certain games, as dominos, a fund of pieces from which the players are allowed to draw. Bank credit, a credit by which a person who has give -- Bank of deposit, a bank which receives money for safe keeping. -- Bank of issue, a bank which issues its own notes payable to bearer. BANK Bank, v. t. Defn: To deposit in a bank. BANK Bank, v. i. 1. To keep a bank; to carry on the business of a banker. 2. To deposit money in a bank; to have an account with a banker. BANKABLE Bank"a*ble, a. Defn: Receivable at a bank. BANK BILL Bank" bill`. 1. In America (and formerly in England), a promissory note of a bank payable to the bearer on demand, and used as currency; a bank note. 2. In England, a note, or a bill of exchange, of a bank, payable to order, and usually at some future specified time. Such bills are negotiable, but form, in the strict sense of the term, no part of the currency. BANK BOOK Bank" book`. Defn: A book kept by a depositor, in which an officer of a bank enters the debits and credits of the depositor's account with the bank. BANK DISCOUNT Bank discount. Defn: A sum equal to the interest at a given rate on the principal (face) of a bill or note from the time of discounting until it becomes due. BANKER Bank"er, n.Etym: [See the nouns Bank and the verbs derived from them.] 1. One who conducts the business of banking; one who, individually, or as a member of a company, keeps an establishment for the deposit or loan of money, or for traffic in money, bills of exchange, etc. 2. A money changer. [Obs.] 3. The dealer, or one who keeps the bank in a gambling house. 4. A vessel employed in the cod fishery on the banks of Newfoundland. Grabb. J. Q. Adams. 5. A ditcher; a drain digger. [Prov. Eng.] 6. The stone bench on which masons cut or square their work. Weale. BANKERESS Bank"er*ess, n. Defn: A female banker. Thackeray. BANKING Bank"ing, n. Defn: The business of a bank or of a banker. Banking house, an establishment or office in which, or a firm by whom, banking is done. BANK NOTE Bank" note`. 1. A promissory note issued by a bank or banking company, payable to bearer on demand. Note: In the United States popularly called a bank bill. 2. Formerly, a promissory note made by a banker, or banking company, payable to a specified person at a fixed date; a bank bill. See Bank bill, 2. [Obs.] 3. A promissory note payable at a bank. BANKRUPT Bank"rupt, n. Etym: [F. banqueroute, fr. It. bancarotta bankruptcy; banca bank (fr. OHG. banch, G. bank, bench) + rotta broken, fr. L. ruptus, p.p. of rumpere to break. At Florence, it is said, the bankrupt had his bench ( i.e., money table) broken. See 1st Bank, and Rupture, n.] 1. (Old Eng. Low) Defn: A trader who secretes himself, or does certain other acts tending to defraud his creditors. Blackstone. 2. A trader who becomes unable to pay his debts; an insolvent trader; popularly, any person who is unable to pay his debts; an insolvent person. M 3. (Law) Defn: A person who, in accordance with the terms of a law relating to bankruptcy, has been judicially declared to be unable to meet his liabilities. Note: In England, until the year 1861 none but a "trader" could be made a bankrupt; a non-trader failing to meet his liabilities being an "insolvent". But this distinction was abolished by the Bankruptcy Act of 1861. The laws of 1841 and 1867 of the United States relating to bankruptcy applied this designation bankrupt to others besides those engaged in trade. BANKRUPT Bank"rupt, a. 1. Being a bankrupt or in a condition of bankruptcy; unable to pay, or legally discharged from paying, one's debts; as, a bankrupt merchant. 2. Depleted of money; not having the means of meeting pecuniary liabilities; as, a bankrupt treasury. 3. Relating to bankrupts and bankruptcy. 4. Destitute of, or wholly wanting (something once possessed, or something one should possess). "Bankrupt in gratitude." Sheridan. Bankrupt law, a law by which the property of a person who is unable or unwilling to pay his debts may be taken and distributed to his creditors, and by which a person who has made a full surrender of his property, and is free from fraud, may be discharged from the legal obligation of his debts. See Insolvent, a. BANKRUPT Bank"rupt, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Bankrupted; p. pr. & vb. n. Bankrupting.] Defn: To make bankrupt; to bring financial ruin upon; to impoverish. BANKRUPTCY Bank"rupt*cy, n.; pl. Bankruptcies( 1. The state of being actually or legally bankrupt. 2. The act or process of becoming a bankrupt. 3. Complete loss; -- followed by of. BANKSIDE Bank"side`, n. Defn: The slope of a bank, especially of the bank of a steam. BANK-SIDED Bank"-sid`ed, a. (Naut.) Defn: Having sides inclining inwards, as a ship; -- opposed to wall- sided. BANK SWALLOW Bank" swal"low. Defn: See under 1st Bank, n. BANLIEUE Ban"li*eue`, n. Etym: [F., fr. LL. bannum leucae, banleuca; bannum jurisdiction + leuca league.] Defn: The territory without the walls, but within the legal limits, of a town or city. Brande & C. BANNER Ban"ner, n. Etym: [OE. banere, OF. baniere, F. bannière, bandière, fr. LL. baniera, banderia, fr. bandum banner, fr. OHG. bant band, strip of cloth; cf. bindan to bind, Goth. bandwa, bandwo, a sign. See Band, n.] 1. A kind of flag attached to a spear or pike by a crosspiece, and used by a chief as his standard in battle. Hang out our banners on the outward walls. Shak. 2. A large piece of silk or other cloth, with a device or motto, extended on a crosspiece, and borne in a procession, or suspended in some conspicuous place. 3. Any flag or standard; as, the star-spangled banner. Banner fish (Zoöl.), a large fish of the genus Histiophorus, of the Swordfish family, having a broad bannerlike dorsal fin; the sailfish. One species (H. Americanus) inhabits the North Atlantic. BANNERED Ban"nered, a. Defn: Decorated with a banner or banners "bannered host." Milton. BANNERET Ban"ner*et, n.Etym: [OE. baneret, OF. baneret, F. banneret; properly a dim. of OF. baniere. See Banner.] 1. Originally, a knight who led his vassals into the field under his own banner; -- commonly used as a title of rank. 2. A title of rank, conferred for heroic deeds, and hence, an order of knighthood; also, the person bearing such title or rank. Note: The usual mode of conferring the rank on the field of battle was by cutting or tearing off the point of the pennon or pointed flag on the spear of the candidate, thereby making it a banner. 3. A civil officer in some Swiss cantons. 4. A small banner. Shak. BANNEROL Ban"ner*ol, n. Defn: A banderole; esp. a banner displayed at a funeral procession and set over the tomb. See Banderole. BANNITION Ban*ni"tion, n. Etym: [LL. bannitio. See Banish.] Defn: The act of expulsion.[Obs.] Abp. Laud. BANNOCK Ban"nock, n. Etym: [Gael. bonnach.] Defn: A kind of cake or bread, in shape flat and