[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

made up of many-chambered microscopic shells. MILIOLITIC Mil`i*o*lit"ic, a. Defn: Of or pertaining to the genus Miliola; containing miliolites. MILITANCY Mil"i*tan*cy, n. Etym: [See Militant.] 1. The state of being militant; warfare. 2. A military spirit or system; militarism. H. Spencer. MILITANT Mil"i*tant, a. Etym: [L. militans, -antis, p. pr. of militare to be soldier: cf. F. militant. See Militate.] Defn: Engaged in warfare; fighting; combating; serving as a soldier. -- Mil"i*tant*ly, adv. At which command the powers militant... Moved on in silence. Milton. Church militant, the Christian church on earth, which is supposed to be engaged in a constant warfare against its enemies, and is thus distinguished from the church triumphant, in heaven. MILITAR Mil"i*tar, a. Defn: Military. [Obs.] Bacon. MILITARILY Mil"i*ta*ri*ly, adv. Defn: In a military manner. MILITARISM Mil"i*ta*rism, n. Etym: [Cf. F. militarisme.] 1. A military state or condition; reliance on military force in administering government; a military system. 2. The spirit and traditions of military life. H. Spencer. MILITARIST Mil"i*ta*rist, n. Defn: A military man. [Obs.] Shak. MILITARY Mil"i*ta*ry, a. Etym: [L. militaris, militarius, from miles, militis, soldier: cf. F. militaire.] 1. Of or pertaining to soldiers, to arms, or to war; belonging to, engaged in, or appropriate to, the affairs of war; as, a military parade; military discipline; military bravery; military conduct; military renown. Nor do I, as an enemy to peace, Troop in the throngs of military men. Shak. 2. Performed or made by soldiers; as, a military election; a military expedition. Bacon. Military law. See Martial law, under Martial. -- Military order. (a) A command proceeding from a military superior. (b) An association of military persons under a bond of certain peculiar rules; especially, such an association of knights in the Middle Ages, or a body in modern times taking a similar form, membership of which confers some distinction. -- Military tenure, tenure of land, on condition of performing military service. MILITARY Mil"i*ta*ry, n. Etym: [Cf. F. militaire.] Defn: The whole body of soldiers; soldiery; militia; troops; the army. MILITATE Mil"i*tate, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Militated; p. pr. & vb. n. Militating.] Etym: [L. militare, militatum, to be a soldier, fr. miles, militis, soldier.] Defn: To make war; to fight; to contend; -- usually followed by against and with. These are great questions, where great names militate against each other. Burke. The invisible powers of heaven seemed to militate on the side of the pious emperor. Gibbon. MILITIA Mi*li"tia, n. Etym: [L., military service, soldiery, fr. miles, militis, soldier: cf. F. milice.] 1. In the widest sense, the whole military force of a nation, including both those engaged in military service as a business, and those competent and available for such service; specifically, the body of citizens enrolled for military instruction and discipline, but not subject to be called into actual service except in emergencies. The king's captains and soldiers fight his battles, and yet... the power of the militia is he. Jer. Taylor. 2. Military service; warfare. [Obs.] Baxter. MILITIAMAN Mi*li"tia*man, n.; pl. Militiamen (. Defn: One who belongs to the militia. MILITIATE Mi*li"ti*ate, v. i. Defn: To carry on, or prepare for, war. [Obs.] Walpole. MILK Milk, n. Etym: [AS. meoluc, meoloc, meolc, milc; akin to OFries. meloc, D. melk, G. milch, OHG. miluh, Icel. mj, Sw. mjölk, Dan. melk, Goth. miluks, G. melken to milk, OHG. melchan, Lith. milszti, L. mulgere, Gr. Milch, Emulsion, Milt soft roe of fishes.] 1. (Physiol.) Defn: A white fluid secreted by the mammary glands of female mammals for the nourishment of their young, consisting of minute globules of fat suspended in a solution of casein, albumin, milk sugar, and inorganic salts. "White as morne milk." Chaucer. 2. (Bot.) Defn: A kind of juice or sap, usually white in color, found in certain plants; latex. See Latex. 3. An emulsion made by bruising seeds; as, the milk of almonds, produced by pounding almonds with sugar and water. 4. (Zoöl.) Defn: The ripe, undischarged spat of an oyster. Condensed milk. See under Condense, v. t. -- Milk crust (Med.), vesicular eczema occurring on the face and scalp of nursing infants. See Eczema. -- Milk fever. (a) (Med.) A fever which accompanies or precedes the first lactation. It is usually transitory. (b) (Vet. Surg.) A form puerperal peritonitis in cattle; also, a variety of meningitis occurring in cows after calving. -- Milk glass, glass having a milky appearance. -- Milk knot (Med.), a hard lump forming in the breast of a nursing woman, due to obstruction to the flow of milk and congestion of the mammary glands. -- Milk leg (Med.), a swollen condition of the leg, usually in puerperal women, caused by an inflammation of veins, and characterized by a white appearance occasioned by an accumulation of serum and sometimes of pus in the cellular tissue. -- Milk meats, food made from milk, as butter and cheese. [Obs.] Bailey. -- Milk mirror. Same as Escutcheon, 2. -- Milk molar (Anat.), one of the deciduous molar teeth which are shed and replaced by the premolars. -- Milk of lime (Chem.), a watery emulsion of calcium hydrate, produced by macerating quicklime in water. -- Milk parsley (Bot.), an umbelliferous plant (Peucedanum palustre) of Europe and Asia, having a milky juice. -- Milk pea (Bot.), a genus (Galactia) of leguminous and, usually, twining plants. -- Milk sickness (Med.), a peculiar malignant disease, occurring in some parts of the Western United States, and affecting certain kinds of farm stock (esp. cows), and persons who make use of the meat or dairy products of infected cattle. Its chief symptoms in man are uncontrollable vomiting, obstinate constipation, pain, and muscular tremors. Its origin in cattle has been variously ascribed to the presence of certain plants in their food, and to polluted drinking water. -- Milk snake (Zoöl.), a harmless American snake (Ophibolus triangulus, or O. eximius). It is variously marked with white, gray, and red. Called also milk adder, chicken snake, house snake, etc. -- Milk sugar. (Physiol. Chem.) See Lactose, and Sugar of milk (below). -- Milk thistle (Bot.), an esculent European thistle (Silybum marianum), having the veins of its leaves of a milky whiteness. -- Milk thrush. (Med.) See Thrush. -- Milk tooth (Anat.), one of the temporary first set of teeth in young mammals; in man there are twenty. -- Milk tree (Bot.), a tree yielding a milky juice, as the cow tree of South America (Brosimum Galactodendron), and the Euphorbia balsamifera of the Canaries, the milk of both of which is wholesome food. -- Milk vessel (Bot.), a special cell in the inner bark of a plant, or a series of cells, in which the milky juice is contained. See Latex. -- Rock milk. See Agaric mineral, under Agaric. -- Sugar of milk. The sugar characteristic of milk; a hard white crystalline slightly sweet substance obtained by evaporation of the whey of milk. It is used in pellets and powder as a vehicle for homeopathic medicines, and as an article of diet. See Lactose. MILK Milk, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Milked; p. pr. & vb. n. Milking.] 1. To draw or press milk from the breasts or udder of, by the hand or mouth; to withdraw the milk of. "Milking the kine." Gay. I have given suck, and know How tender 't is to love the babe that milks me. Shak. 2. To draw from the breasts or udder; to extract, as milk; as, to milk wholesome milk from healthy cows. 3. To draw anything from, as if by milking; to compel to yield profit or advantage; to plunder. Tyndale. They [the lawyers] milk an unfortunate estate as regularly as a dairyman does his stock. London Spectator. To milk the street, to squeeze the smaller operators in stocks and extract a profit from them, by alternately raising and depressing prices within a short range; -- said of the large dealers. [Cant] -- To milk a telegram, to use for one's own advantage the contents of a telegram belonging to another person. [Cant] MILK Milk, v. i. Defn: To draw or to yield milk. MILKEN Milk"en, a. Defn: Consisting of milk. [Obs.] MILKER Milk"er, n. 1. One who milks; also, a mechanical apparatus for milking cows. 2. A cow or other animal that gives milk. MILKFUL Milk"ful, a. Defn: Full of milk; abounding with food. [R.] "Milkful vales." Sylvester. MILKILY Milk"i*ly, adv. Defn: In a milky manner. MILKINESS Milk"i*ness, n. Defn: State or quality of being milky. MILK-LIVERED Milk"-liv`ered, a. Defn: White-livered; cowardly; timorous. MILKMAID Milk"maid`, n. Defn: A woman who milks cows or is employed in the dairy. MILKMAN Milk"man, n.; pl. Milkmen (. Defn: A man who sells milk or delivers is to customers. MILK SICKNESS Milk sickness. (Veter.) Defn: A peculiar malignant disease, occurring in parts of the western United States, and affecting certain kinds of farm stock (esp. cows), and persons using the meat or dairy products of infected cattle. Its chief symptoms in man are uncontrollable vomiting, obstinate constipation, pain,