[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

or small tree (Thea, or Camellia, Chinensis). The shrub is a native of China, but has been introduced to some extent into some other countries. Note: Teas are classed as green or black, according to their color or appearance, the kinds being distinguished also by various other characteristic differences, as of taste, odor, and the like. The color, flavor, and quality are dependent upon the treatment which the leaves receive after being gathered. The leaves for green tea are heated, or roasted slightly, in shallow pans over a wood fire, almost immediately after being gathered, after which they are rolled with the hands upon a table, to free them from a portion of their moisture, and to twist them, and are then quickly dried. Those intended for black tea are spread out in the air for some time after being gathered, and then tossed about with the hands until they become soft and flaccid, when they are roasted for a few minutes, and rolled, and having then been exposed to the air for a few hours in a soft and moist state, are finally dried slowly over a charcoal fire. The operation of roasting and rolling is sometimes repeated several times, until the leaves have become of the proper color. The principal sorts of green tea are Twankay, the poorest kind; Hyson skin, the refuse of Hyson; Hyson, Imperial, and Gunpowder, fine varieties; and Young Hyson, a choice kind made from young leaves gathered early in the spring. Those of black tea are Bohea, the poorest kind; Congou; Oolong; Souchong, one of the finest varieties; and Pekoe, a fine-flavored kind, made chiefly from young spring buds. See Bohea, Congou, Gunpowder tea, under Gunpowder, Hyson, Oolong, and Souchong. K. Johnson. Tomlinson. Note: "No knowledge of . . . [tea] appears to have reached Europe till after the establishment of intercourse between Portugal and China in 1517. The Portuguese, however, did little towards the introduction of the herb into Europe, and it was not till the Dutch established themselves at Bantam early in 17th century, that these adventurers learned from the Chinese the habit of tea drinking, and brought it to Europe." Encyc. Brit. 2. A decoction or infusion of tea leaves in boiling water; as, tea is a common beverage. 3. Any infusion or decoction, especially when made of the dried leaves of plants; as, sage tea; chamomile tea; catnip tea. 4. The evening meal, at which tea is usually served; supper. Arabian tea, the leaves of Catha edulis; also (Bot.), the plant itself. See Kat. -- Assam tea, tea grown in Assam, in India, originally brought there from China about the year 1850. -- Australian, or Botany Bay, tea (Bot.), a woody clambing plant (Smilax glycyphylla). -- Brazilian tea. (a) The dried leaves of Lantana pseodothea, used in Brazil as a substitute for tea. (b) The dried leaves of Stachytarpheta mutabilis, used for adulterating tea, and also, in Austria, for preparing a beverage. -- Labrador tea. (Bot.) See under Labrador. -- New Jersey tea (Bot.), an American shrub, the leaves of which were formerly used as a substitute for tea; redroot. See Redroot. -- New Zealand tea. (Bot.) See under New Zealand. -- Oswego tea. (Bot.) See Oswego tea. -- Paraguay tea, mate. See 1st Mate. -- Tea board, a board or tray for holding a tea set. -- Tea bug (Zoöl.), an hemipterous insect which injures the tea plant by sucking the juice of the tender leaves. -- Tea caddy, a small box for holding tea. -- Tea chest, a small, square wooden case, usually lined with sheet lead or tin, in which tea is imported from China. -- Tea clam (Zoöl.), a small quahaug. [Local, U.S.] -- Tea garden, a public garden where tea and other refreshments are served. -- Tea plant (Bot.), any plant, the leaves of which are used in making a beverage by infusion; specifically, Thea Chinensis, from which the tea of commerce is obtained. -- Tea rose (Bot.), a delicate and graceful variety of the rose (Rosa Indica, var. odorata), introduced from China, and so named from its scent. Many varieties are now cultivated. -- Tea service, the appurtenances or utensils required for a tea table, -- when of silver, usually comprising only the teapot, milk pitcher, and sugar dish. -- Tea set, a tea service. -- Tea table, a table on which tea furniture is set, or at which tea is drunk. -- Tea taster, one who tests or ascertains the quality of tea by tasting. -- Tea tree (Bot.), the tea plant of China. See Tea plant, above. -- Tea urn, a vessel generally in the form of an urn or vase, for supplying hot water for steeping, or infusing, tea. TEA Tea, v. i. Defn: To take or drink tea. [Colloq.] TEABERRY Tea"ber`ry, n. (Bot.) Defn: The checkerberry. TEACH Teach, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Taught; p. pr. & vb. n. Teaching.] Etym: [OE. techen, imp. taughte, tahte, AS. t, imp. t, to show, teach, akin to tacn token. See Token.] 1. To impart the knowledge of; to give intelligence concerning; to impart, as knowledge before unknown, or rules for practice; to inculcate as true or important; to exhibit impressively; as, to teach arithmetic, dancing, music, or the like; to teach morals. If some men teach wicked things, it must be that others should practice them. South. 2. To direct, as an instructor; to manage, as a preceptor; to guide the studies of; to instruct; to inform; to conduct through a course of studies; as, to teach a child or a class. "He taught his disciples." Mark ix. 31. The village master taught his little school. Goldsmith. 3. To accustom; to guide; to show; to admonish. I shall myself to herbs teach you. Chaucer. They have taught their tongue to speak lies. Jer. ix. 5. Note: This verb is often used with two objects, one of the person, the other of the thing; as, he taught me Latin grammar. In the passive construction, either of these objects may be retained in the objective case, while the other becomes the subject; as, I was taught Latin grammar by him; Latin grammar was taught me by him. Syn. -- To instruct; inform; inculcate; tell; guide; counsel; admonish. See the Note under Learn. TEACH Teach, v. i. Defn: To give instruction; to follow the business, or to perform the duties, of a preceptor. And gladly would he learn, and gladly teach. Chaucer. The priests thereof teach for hire. Micah iii. 11. TEACHABLE Teach"a*ble, a. Defn: Capable of being taught; apt to learn; also, willing to receive instruction; docile. We ought to bring our minds free, unbiased, and teachable, to learn our religion from the Word of God. I. Watts. TEACHABLENESS Teach"a*ble*ness, n. Defn: Willingness to be taught. TEACHE Teache, n. Etym: [Cf. Ir. teaghaim, Gael. teasaich, to heat.] (Sugar Works) Defn: One of the series of boilers in which the cane juice is treated in making sugar; especially, the last boiler of the series. Ure. TEACHER Teach"er, n. 1. One who teaches or instructs; one whose business or occupation is to instruct others; an instructor; a tutor. 2. One who instructs others in religion; a preacher; a minister of the gospel; sometimes, one who preaches without regular ordination. The teachers in all the churches assembled. Sir W. Raleigh. TEACHING Teach"ing, n. Defn: The act or business of instructing; also, that which is taught; instruction. Syn. -- Education; instruction; breeding. See Education. TEACHLESS Teach"less, a. Defn: Not teachable. [R.] Shelley. TEACUP Tea"cup`, n. Defn: A small cup from which to drink tea. TEACUPFUL Tea"cup`ful, n.; pl. Teacupfuls (. Defn: As much as a teacup can hold; enough to fill a teacup. TEAD; TEADE Tead, Teade, n. Etym: [L. taeda, teda.] Defn: A torch. [Obs.] "A burning teade." Spenser. TEAGLE Tea"gle, n. Etym: [Cf. Tackle.] Defn: A hoisting apparatus; an elevator; a crane; a lift. [Prov. Eng.] TEAGUE Teague, n. Etym: [Cf. W. taeog, taeawg, adj., rustic, rude, n., a vassal, villain, pleasant, clown, Ir. th rural, boorish.] Defn: An Irishman; -- a term used in contempt. Johnson. TEAK Teak, n. Etym: [Malayalm tekku.] (Bot.) Defn: A tree of East Indies (Tectona grandis) which furnishes an extremely strong and durable timber highly valued for shipbuilding and other purposes; also, the timber of the tree. [Written also teek.] African teak, a tree (Oldfieldia Africana) of Sierra Leone; also, its very heavy and durable wood; -- called also African oak. -- New Zeland teak, a large tree (Vitex littoralis) of New Zeland; also, its hard, durable timber. TEAKETTLE Tea"ket`tle, n. Defn: A kettle in which water is boiled for making tea, coffee, etc. TEAL Teal, n. Etym: [OE. tele; akin to D. teling a generation, production, teal, telen to breed, produce, and E. till to cultivate. The English word probably once meant, a brood or flock. See Till to cultivate.] (Zoöl.) Defn: Any one of several species of small fresh-water ducks of the genus Anas and the