[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

comparatively slender; having the diameter or lateral extent small in proportion to the height; as, a tall person, tree, or mast. Two of far nobler shape, erect and tall. Milton. 2. Brave; bold; courageous. [Obs.] As tall a trencherman As e'er demolished a pye fortification. Massinger. His companions, being almost in despair of victory, were suddenly recomforted by Sir William Stanley, which came to succors with three thousand tall men. Grafton. 3. Fine; splendid; excellent; also, extravagant; excessive. [Obs. or Slang] B. Jonson. Syn. -- High; lofty. -- Tall, High, Lofty. High is the generic term, and is applied to anything which is elevated or raised above another thing. Tall specifically describes that which has a small diameter in proportion to its height; hence, we speak of a tall man, a tall steeple, a tall mast, etc., but not of a tall hill. Lofty has a special reference to the expanse above us, and denotes an imposing height; as, a lofty mountain; a lofty room. Tall is now properly applied only to physical objects; high and lofty have a moral acceptation; as, high thought, purpose, etc.; lofty aspirations; a lofty genius. Lofty is the stronger word, and is usually coupled with the grand or admirable. TALLAGE; TALLIAGE Tal"lage, Tal"li*age, n. Etym: [F. taillage. See Taille, and cf. Tailage.] (O. Eng. Law) Defn: A certain rate or tax paid by barons, knights, and inferior tenants, toward the public expenses. [Written also tailage, taillage.] Note: When paid out of knight's fees, it was called scutage; when by cities and burghs, tallage; when upon lands not held by military tenure, hidage. Blackstone. TALLAGE Tal"lage, v. t. Defn: To lay an impost upon; to cause to pay tallage. TALLBOY Tall"boy`, n. 1. A kind of long-stemmed wineglass or cup. 2. A piece of household furniture common in the eighteenth century, usually in two separate parts, with larger drawers above and smaller ones below and raised on legs fifteen inches or more in height; -- called also highboy. 3. A long sheet-metal pipe for a chimney top. TALLIER Tal"li*er, n. Defn: One who keeps tally. TALLIS Tal"lis, n. Defn: Same as Tallith. TALLITH Tal"lith, n. [NHeb. tallith.] (Jewish Costume) (a) An undergarment worn by orthodox Jews, covering the chest and the upper part of the back. It has an opening for the head, and has tassels, called zizith, on its four corners. (b) A tasseled shawl or scarf worn over the head or thrown round the shoulders while at prayer. TALLNESS Tall"ness, n. Defn: The quality or state of being tall; height of stature. TALLOW Tal"low, n. Etym: [OE. taluh, talugh; akin to OD. talgh, D. talk, G., Dan. and Sw. talg, Icel. tolgr, tolg, tolk; and perhaps to Goth. tulgus firm.] 1. The suet or fat of animals of the sheep and ox kinds, separated from membranous and fibrous matter by melting. Note: The solid consistency of tallow is due to the large amount of stearin it contains. See Fat. 2. The fat of some other animals, or the fat obtained from certain plants, or from other sources, resembling the fat of animals of the sheep and ox kinds. Tallow candle, a candle made of tallow. -- Tallow catch, a keech. See Keech. [Obs.] -- Tallow chandler, one whose occupation is to make, or to sell, tallow candles. -- Tallow chandlery, the trade of a tallow chandler; also, the place where his business is carried on. -- Tallow tree (Bot.), a tree (Stillingia sebifera) growing in China, the seeds of which are covered with a substance which resembles tallow and is applied to the same purposes. TALLOW Tal"low, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Tallowed; p. pr. & vb. n. Tallowing.] 1. To grease or smear with tallow. 2. To cause to have a large quantity of tallow; to fatten; as, tallow sheep. TALLOWER Tal"low*er, n. Defn: An animal which produces tallow. TALLOW-FACE Tal"low-face`, n. Defn: One who has a sickly, pale complexion. Shak. TALLOW-FACED Tal"low-faced`, a. Defn: Having a sickly complexion; pale. Burton. TALLOWING Tal"low*ing, n. Defn: The act, or art, of causing animals to produce tallow; also, the property in animals of producing tallow. TALLOWISH Tal"low*ish, a. Defn: Having the qualities of tallow. TALLOWY Tal"low*y, a. Defn: Of the nature of tallow; resembling tallow; greasy. TALLWOOD Tall"wood`, n. Etym: [Cf. Tally.] Defn: Firewood cut into billets of a certain length. [Obs.] [Eng.] TALLY Tal"ly, n.; pl. Tallies. Etym: [OE. taile, taille, F. taille a cutting, cut tally, fr. tailler to cut, but influenced probably by taillé, p.p. of tailler. See Tailor, and cf. Tail a limitation, Taille, Tallage.] 1. Originally, a piece of wood on which notches or scores were cut, as the marks of number; later, one of two books, sheets of paper, etc., on which corresponding accounts were kept. Note: In purshasing and selling, it was once customary for traders to have two sticks, or one stick cleft into two parts, and to mark with a score or notch, on each, the number or quantity of goods delivered, -- the seller keeping one stick, and the purchaser the other. Before the use of writing, this, or something like it, was the only method of keeping accounts; and tallies were received as evidence in courts of justice. In the English exchequer were tallies of loans, one part being kept in the exchequer, the other being given to the creditor in lieu of an obligation for money lent to government. 2. Hence, any account or score kept by notches or marks, whether on wood or paper, or in a book; especially, one kept in duplicate. 3. One thing made to suit another; a match; a mate. They were framed the tallies for each other. Dryden. 4. A notch, mark, or score made on or in a tally; as, to make or earn a tally in a game. 5. A tally shop. See Tally shop, below. Tally shop, a shop at which goods or articles are sold to customers on account, the account being kept in corresponding books, one called the tally, kept by the buyer, the other the counter tally, kept by the seller, and the payments being made weekly or otherwise by agreement. The trade thus regulated is called tally trade. Eng. Encyc. -- To strike tallies, to act in correspondence, or alike. [Obs.] Fuller. TALLY Tal"ly, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Tallied; p. pr. & vb. n. Tallying.] Etym: [Cf. F. tialler to cut. See Tally, n.] 1. To score with correspondent notches; hence, to make to correspond; to cause to fit or suit. They are not so well tallied to the present juncture. Pope. 2. (Naut.) Defn: To check off, as parcels of freight going inboard or outboard. W. C. Russell. Tally on (Naut.), to dovetail together. TALLY Tal"ly, v. i. 1. To be fitted; to suit; to correspond; to match. I found pieces of tiles that exactly tallied with the channel. Addison. Your idea . . . tallies exactly with mine. Walpole. 2. To make a tally; to score; as, to tally in a game. Tally on (Naut.), to man a rope for hauling, the men standing in a line or tail. TALLY Tal"ly, adv. Etym: [See Tall, a.] Defn: Stoutly; with spirit. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl. TALLYHO Tal"ly*ho`, interj. & n. 1. The huntsman's cry to incite or urge on his hounds. 2. A tallyho coach. Tallyho coach, a pleasure coach. See under Coach. TALLYMAN Tal"ly*man, n.; pl. Tallymen (. 1. One who keeps the tally, or marks the sticks. 2. One who keeps a tally shop, or conducts his business as tally trade. TALMA Tal"ma, n.; pl. Talmas. Etym: [Prob. so called from Talma, a French actor.] (a) A kind of large cape, or short, full cloak, forming part of the dress of ladies. (b) A similar garment worn formerly by gentlemen. TALMUD Tal"mud, n. Etym: [Chald. talmud instruction, doctrine, fr. lamad to learn, limmad to teach.] Defn: The body of the Jewish civil and canonical law not comprised in the Pentateuch. Note: The Talmud consists of two parts, the Mishna, or text, and the Gemara, or commentary. Sometimes, however, the name Talmud is restricted, especially by Jewish writers, to the Gemara. There are two Talmuds, the Palestinian, commonly, but incorrectly, called the Talmud of Jerusalem, and the Babylonian Talmud. They contain the same Mishna, but different Gemaras. The Babylonian Talmud is about three times as large as the other, and is more highly esteemed by the Jews. TALMUDIC; TALMUDICAL Tal*mud"ic, Tal*mud"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. talmudique.] Defn: Of or pertaining to the Talmud; contained in the Talmud; as, Talmudic Greek; Talmudical phrases. Lightfoot. TALMUDISM Tal"mud*ism, n. , n. Defn: The teachings of the Talmud, or adherence to them. TALMUDIST Tal"mud*ist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. talmudiste.] Defn: One versed in the Talmud; one who adheres to the teachings of the Talmud. TALMUDISTIC Tal`mud*is"tic, a. Defn: Resembling the Talmud; Talmudic. TALON Tal"on, n. Etym: [F., heel, spur, LL. talo, fr. L. talus the ankle, heel.] 1.