[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

the New Jersey and Rhode Island coast it is called the horse mackerel, in Virginia saltwater tailor, or skipjack. 2. A West Indian fish (Platyglossus radiatus), of the family Labridæ. Note: The name is applied locally to other species of fishes; as the cunner, sea bass, squeteague, etc. BLUEGOWN Blue"gown`, n. Defn: One of a class of paupers or pensioners, or licensed beggars, in Scotland, to whim annually on the king's birthday were distributed certain alms, including a blue gown; a beadsman. BLUE GRASS Blue" grass`. (Bot.) Defn: A species of grass (Poa compressa) with bluish green stems, valuable in thin gravelly soils; wire grass. Kentucky blue grass, a species of grass (Poa pratensis) which has running rootstocks and spreads rapidly. It is valuable as a pasture grass, as it endures both winter and drought better than other kinds, and is very nutritious. BLUE-GRASS STATE Blue-grass State. Defn: The Sate of Kentucky; -- a nickname alluding to the blue-grass region, where fine horses are bred. BLUE HEN STATE Blue Hen State. Defn: The State of Delaware; -- a popular sobriquet. It is said, though the story lacks proof, to have taken its origin from the insistence of a Delaware Revolutionary captain, named Caldwell, that no cock could be truly game unless the mother was a blue hen, whence Blue Hen's Chickens came to be a nickname for the people of Delaware. BLUE JAY Blue" jay`. (Zoöl.) Defn: The common jay of the United States (Cyanocitta, or Cyanura, cristata). The predominant color is bright blue. BLUE-JOHN Blue"-john`, n. Defn: A name given to fluor spar in Derbyshire, where it is used for ornamental purposes. BLUELY Blue"ly, adv. Defn: With a blue color. Swift. BLUENESS Blue"ness, n. Defn: The quality of being blue; a blue color. Boyle. BLUENOSE Blue"nose, n. Defn: A nickname for a Nova Scotian. BLUENOSE; BLUENOSER Blue"nose`, Blue"nos*er, n. Defn: A Nova Scotian; also, a Nova Scotian ship (called also Blue"nos`er); a Nova Scotian potato, etc. BLUEPOLL Blue"poll` (, n. Etym: [Blue + poll head.] (Zoöl.) Defn: A kind of salmon (Salmo Cambricus) found in Wales. BLUEPRINT Blue"print. Defn: See under Print. BLUE-SKYLAW Blue"-sky"law`. Defn: A law enacted to provide for the regulation and supervision of investment companies in order to protect the public against companies that do not intend to do a fair and honest business and that offer investments that do not promise a fair return; -- so called because the promises made by some investment companies are as boundless or alluring as the blue sky, or, perhaps, because designed to clear away the clouds and fogs from the simple investor's horizon. [Colloq.] BLUESTOCKING Blue"stock`ing, n. 1. A literary lady; a female pedant. [Colloq.] Note: As explained in Boswell's "Life of Dr. Johnson", this term is derived from the name given to certain meetings held by ladies, in Johnson's time, for conversation with distinguished literary men. An eminent attendant of these assemblies was a Mr. Stillingfleet, who always wore blue stockings. He was so much distinguished for his conversational powers that his absence at any time was felt to be a great loss, so that the remark became common, "We can do nothing without the blue stockings." Hence these meetings were sportively called bluestocking clubs, and the ladies who attended them, bluestockings. 2. (Zoöl.) Defn: The American avocet (Recurvirostra Americana). BLUESTOCKINGISM Blue"stock`ing*ism, n. Defn: The character or manner of a bluestocking; female pedantry. [Colloq.] BLUESTONE Blue"stone` (, n. 1. Blue vitriol. Dunglison. 2. A grayish blue building stone, as that commonly used in the eastern United States. BLUETHROAT Blue"throat`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: A singing bird of northern Europe and Asia (Cyanecula Suecica), related to the nightingales; -- called also blue-throated robin and blue-throated warbler. BLUETS Blu"ets, n. Etym: [F. bluet, bleuet, dim. of bleu blue. See Blue, a.] (Bot.) Defn: A name given to several different species of plants having blue flowers, as the Houstonia coerulea, the Centaurea cyanus or bluebottle, and the Vaccinium angustifolium. BLUE-VEINED Blue"-veined` (, a. Defn: Having blue veins or blue streaks. BLUEWING Blue"wing`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: The blue-winged teal. See Teal. BLUEY Blue"y Defn: ,a.Bluish. Southey. BLUFF Bluff, a. Etym: [Cf. OD. blaf flat, broad, blaffaert one with a broad face, also, a boaster; or G. verblüffen to confuse, LG. bluffen to frighten; to unknown origin.] 1. Having a broad, flattened front; as, the bluff bows of a ship. "Bluff visages." Irving. 2. Rising steeply with a flat or rounded front. "A bluff or bold shore." Falconer. Its banks, if not really steep, had a bluff and precipitous aspect. Judd. 3. Surly; churlish; gruff; rough. 4. Abrupt; roughly frank; unceremonious; blunt; brusque; as, a bluff answer; a bluff manner of talking; a bluff sea captain. "Bluff King Hal." Sir W. Scott. There is indeed a bluff pertinacity which is a proper defense in a moment of surprise. I. Taylor. BLUFF Bluff, n. 1. A high, steep bank, as by a river or the sea, or beside a ravine or plain; a cliff with a broad face. Beach, bluff, and wave, adieu. Whittier. 2. An act of bluffing; an expression of self-confidence for the purpose of intimidation; braggadocio; as, that is only bluff, or a bluff. 3. A game at cards; poker. [U.S.] Bartlett. BLUFF Bluff, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Bluffed; p. pr. & vb. n. Bluffing.] 1. (Poker) Defn: To deter (an opponent) from taking the risk of betting on his hand of cards, as the bluffer does by betting heavily on his own hand although it may be of less value. [U. S.] 2. To frighten or deter from accomplishing a purpose by making a show of confidence in one's strength or resources; as, he bluffed me off. [Colloq.] BLUFF Bluff, v. i. Defn: To act as in the game of bluff. BLUFF-BOWED Bluff"-bowed` (, a. (Naut.) Defn: Built with the stem nearly straight up and down. BLUFFER Bluff"er, ( n. Defn: One who bluffs. BLUFF-HEADED Bluff"-head`ed (, a. (Naut.) Defn: Built with the stem nearly straight up and down. BLUFFNESS Bluff"ness, n. Defn: The quality or state of being bluff. BLUFFY Bluff"y, a. 1. Having bluffs, or bold, steep banks. 2. Inclined to bo bluff; brusque. BLUING Blu"ing, n. 1. The act of rendering blue; as, the bluing of steel. Tomlinson. 2. Something to give a bluish tint, as indigo, or preparations used by washerwomen. BLUISH Blu"ish, a. Defn: Somewhat blue; as, bluish veins. "Bluish mists." Dryden. -- Blu"ish*ly, adv. -- Blu"ish*ness, n. BLUNDER Blun"der, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Blundered; p. pr. & vb. n. Blundering.] Etym: [OE. blunderen, blondren, to stir, confuse, blunder; perh. allied to blend to mix, to confound by mixture.] 1. To make a gross error or mistake; as, to blunder in writing or preparing a medical prescription. Swift. 2. To move in an awkward, clumsy manner; to flounder and stumble. I was never distinguished for address, and have often even blundered in making my bow. Goldsmith. Yet knows not how to find the uncertain place, And blunders on, and staggers every pace. Dryden. To blunder on. (a) To continue blundering. (b) To find or reach as if by an accident involving more or less stupidity, -- applied to something desirable; as, to blunder on a useful discovery. BLUNDER Blun"der, v. t. 1. To cause to blunder. [Obs.] "To blunder an adversary." Ditton. 2. To do or treat in a blundering manner; to confuse. He blunders and confounds all these together. Stillingfleet. BLUNDER Blun"der, n. 1. Confusion; disturbance. [Obs.] 2. A gross error or mistake, resulting from carelessness, stupidity, or culpable ignorance. Syn. -- Blunder, Error, Mistake, Bull. An error is a departure or deviation from that which is right or correct; as, an error of the press; an error of judgment. A mistake is the interchange or taking of one thing for another, through haste, inadvertence, etc.; as, a careless mistake. A blunder is a mistake or error of a gross kind. It supposes a person to flounder on in his course, from carelessness, ignorance, or stupidity. A bull is a verbal blunder containing a laughable incongruity of ideas. BLUNDERBUSS Blun"der*buss, n. Etym: [Either fr. blunder + D. bus tube, box, akin to G. büchse box, gun, E. box; or corrupted fr. D. donderbus (literally) thunder box, gun, musket.] 1. A short gun or firearm, with a large bore, capable of holding a number of balls, and intended to do execution without exact aim. 2. A stupid, blundering fellow. BLUNDERER Blun"der*er, n. Defn: One who is apt to blunder. BLUNDERHEAD Blun"der*head` (, n. [Blunder + head.] Defn: A stupid, blundering fellow. BLUNDERING Blun"der*ing, a. Defn: Characterized by blunders. BLUNDERINGLY Blun"der*ing*ly, adv. Defn: In a blundering manner. BLUNGE Blunge, v. t. Defn: To amalgamate and blend; to beat up or mix in water, as clay. BLUNGER Blun"ger, n. Etym: [Corrupted from plunger.] Defn: A wooden blade with a cross handle, used for mi Tomlinson. BLUNGING Blun"ging, n. Defn: The process of mixing clay in potteries with a blunger. Tomlinson. BLUNT Blunt, a.