[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

Defn: The instruments employed by a full band, collectively; as, an orchestra of forty stringed instruments, with proper complement of wind instruments. ORCHESTRAL Or"ches*tral, a. Defn: Of or pertaining to an orchestra; suitable for, or performed in or by, an orchestra. ORCHESTRATION Or`ches*tra"tion, n. (Mus.) Defn: The arrangement of music for an orchestra; orchestral treatment of a composition; -- called also instrumentation. ORCHESTRE Or"ches*tre, n. Etym: [F.] Defn: See Orchestra. ORCHESTRIC Or*ches"tric, a. Defn: Orchestral. ORCHESTRION Or*ches"tri*on, n. Defn: A large music box imitating a variety of orchestral instruments. ORCHID Or"chid, n. Etym: [See Orchis.] (Bot.) Defn: Any plant of the order Orchidaceæ. See Orchidaceous. ORCHIDACEOUS Or`chi*da"ceous, a. (Bot.) Defn: Pertaining to, or resembling, a natural order (Orchidaceæ) of endogenous plants of which the genus Orchis is the type. They are mostly perennial herbs having the stamens and pistils united in a single column, and normally three petals and three sepals, all adherent to the ovary. The flowers are curiously shaped, often resembling insects, the odd or lower petal (called the lip) being unlike the others, and sometimes of a strange and unexpected appearance. About one hundred species occur in the United States, but several thousand in the tropics. Note: Over three hundred genera are recognized. ORCHIDEAN Or*chid"e*an, a. (Bot.) Defn: Orchidaceous. ORCHIDEOUS Or*chid"e*ous, a. (Bot.) Defn: Same as Orchidaceous. ORCHIDOLOGIST Or`chid*ol"o*gist, n. Defn: One versed in orchidology. ORCHIDOLOGY Or`chid*ol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -logy.] Defn: The branch of botany which treats of orchids. ORCHIL Or"chil, n. Defn: See Archil. ORCHILLA WEED Or*chil"la weed`. (Bot.) Defn: The lichen from which archil is obtained. See Archil. ORCHIS Or"chis, n.; pl. Orchises. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. 1. (Bot.) Defn: A genus of endogenous plants growing in the North Temperate zone, and consisting of about eighty species. They are perennial herbs growing from a tuber (beside which is usually found the last year's tuber also), and are valued for their showy flowers. See Orchidaceous. 2. (Bot.) Defn: Any plant of the same family with the orchis; an orchid. Note: The common names, such as bee orchis, fly orchis, butterfly orchis, etc., allude to the peculiar form of the flower. ORCHITIS Or*chi"tis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. -itis.] (Med.) Defn: Inflammation of the testicles. ORCHOTOMY Or*chot"o*my, n. Etym: [Gr. (Surg.) Defn: The operation of cutting out or removing a testicle by the knife; castration. ORCIN Or"cin, n. Etym: [Etymology uncertain: cf. F. orcine.] (Chem.) Defn: A colorless crystalline substance, C6H3.CH3.(OH)2, which is obtained from certain lichens (Roccella, Lecanora, etc.), also from extract of aloes, and artificially from certain derivatives of toluene. It changes readily into orcein. ORD Ord, n. Etym: [AS. ord point.] Defn: An edge or point; also, a beginning. [ Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Chaucer. Ord and end, the beginning and end. Cf. Odds and ends, under Odds. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Chaucer. Halliwell. ORDAIN Or*dain", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Ordained; p. pr. & vb. n. Ordaining.] Etym: [OE. ordeinen, OF. ordener, F. ordonner, fr. L. ordinare, from ordo, ordinis, order. See Order, and cf. Ordinance.] 1. To set in order; to arrange according to rule; to regulate; to set; to establish. "Battle well ordained." Spenser. The stake that shall be ordained on either side. Chaucer. 2. To regulate, or establish, by appointment, decree, or law; to constitute; to decree; to appoint; to institute. Jeroboam ordained a feast in the eighth month. 1 Kings xii. 32. And doth the power that man adores ordain Their doom Byron. 3. To set apart for an office; to appoint. Being ordained his special governor. Shak. 4. (Eccl.) Defn: To invest with ministerial or sacerdotal functions; to introduce into the office of the Christian ministry, by the laying on of hands, or other forms; to set apart by the ceremony of ordination. Meletius was ordained by Arian bishops. Bp. Stillingfleet. ORDAINABLE Or*dain"a*ble, a. Defn: Capable of being ordained; worthy to be ordained or appointed. Bp. Hall. ORDAINER Or*dain"er, n. Defn: One who ordains. ORDAINMENT Or*dain"ment, n. Defn: Ordination. [R.] Burke. ORDAL Or"dal, n. Defn: Ordeal. [Obs.] Chaucer. ORDALIAN Or*da"li*an, a. Etym: [LL. orda.] Defn: Of or pertaining to trial by ordeal. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. ORDEAL Or"de*al, n. Etym: [AS. ordal, ord, a judgment; akin to D. oordeel, G. urteil, urtheil; orig., what is dealt out, the prefix or- being akin to a- compounded with verbs, G. er-, ur-, Goth. us-, orig. meaning, out. See Deal, v. & n., and cf. Arise, Ort.] 1. An ancient form of test to determine guilt or innocence, by appealing to a supernatural decision, -- once common in Europe, and still practiced in the East and by savage tribes. Note: In England ordeal by fire and ordeal by water were used, the former confined to persons of rank, the latter to the common people. The ordeal by fire was performed, either by handling red-hot iron, or by walking barefoot and blindfold over red-hot plowshares, laid at unequal distances. If the person escaped unhurt, he was adjudged innocent; otherwise he was condemned as guilty. The ordeal by water was performed, either by plunging the bare arm to the elbow in boiling water, an escape from injury being taken as proof of innocence, or by casting the accused person, bound hand and foot, into a river or pond, when if he floated it was an evidence of guilt, but if he sunk he was acquitted. It is probable that the proverbial phrase, to go through fire and water, denoting severe trial or danger, is derived from the ordeal. See Wager of battle, under Wager. 2. Any severe trial, or test; a painful experience. Ordeal bean. (Bot.) See Calabar bean, under Calabar. -- Ordeal root (Bot.) the root of a species of Strychnos growing in West Africa, used, like the ordeal bean, in trials for witchcraft. -- Ordeal tree (Bot.), a poisonous tree of Madagascar (Tanghinia, or Cerbera, venenata). Persons suspected of crime are forced to eat the seeds of the plumlike fruit, and criminals are put to death by being pricked with a lance dipped in the juice of the seeds. ORDEAL Or"de*al, a. Defn: Of or pertaining to trial by ordeal. ORDER Or"der, n. Etym: [OE. ordre, F. ordre, fr. L. ordo, ordinis. Cf. Ordain, Ordinal.] 1. Regular arrangement; any methodical or established succession or harmonious relation; method; system; as: (a) Of material things, like the books in a library. (b) Of intellectual notions or ideas, like the topics of a discource. (c) Of periods of time or occurrences, and the like. The side chambers were . . . thirty in order. Ezek. xli. 6. Bright-harnessed angels sit in order serviceable. Milton. Good order is the foundation of all good things. Burke. 2. Right arrangement; a normal, correct, or fit condition; as, the house is in order; the machinery is out of order. Locke. 3. The customary mode of procedure; established system, as in the conduct of debates or the transaction of business; usage; custom; fashion. Dantiel. And, pregnant with his grander thought, Brought the old order into doubt. Emerson. 4. Conformity with law or decorum; freedom from disturbance; general tranquillity; public quiet; as, to preserve order in a community or an assembly. 5. That which prescribes a method of procedure; a rule or regulation made by competent authority; as, the rules and orders of the senate. The church hath authority to establish that for an order at one time which at another time it may abolish. Hooker. 6. A command; a mandate; a precept; a direction. Upon this new fright, an order was made by both houses for disarming all the papists in England. Clarendon. 7. Hence: A commission to purchase, sell, or supply goods; a direction, in writing, to pay money, to furnish supplies, to admit to a building, a place of entertainment, or the like; as, orders for blankets are large. In those days were pit orders -- beshrew the uncomfortable manager who abolished them. Lamb. 8. A number of things or persons arranged in a fixed or suitable place, or relative position; a rank; a row; a grade; especially, a rank or class in society; a group or division of men in the same social or other position; also, a distinct character, kind, or sort; as, the higher or lower orders of society; talent of a high order. They are in equal order to their several ends. Jer. Taylor. Various orders various ensigns bear. Granville. Which, to his order of mind, must have seemed little short of crime. Hawthorne. 9. A body of persons having some common honorary distinction or rule of obligation; esp., a body of religious persons or aggregate of convents living under a common rule; as, the Order of the Bath; the Franciscan order. Find a barefoot brother out, One of our order, to associate me. Shak. The venerable order of the Knights Templars. Sir W. Scott. 10. An ecclesiastical grade or rank, as of deacon, priest, or bishop; the office of the Christian ministry; -- often used in the plural; as, to take