[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

and in old bile. It is a derivative of bilirubin. BILIMBI; BILIMBING Bi*lim"bi, Bi*lim"bing, n. Etym: [Malay.] Defn: The berries of two East Indian species of Averrhoa, of the Oxalideæ or Sorrel family. They are very acid, and highly esteemed when preserved or pickled. The juice is used as a remedy for skin diseases. [Written also blimbi and blimbing.] BILIMENT Bil"i*ment, n. Defn: A woman's ornament; habiliment. [Obs.] BILIN Bi"lin, n. Etym: [Cf. F. biline, from L. bilis bile.] (Physiol. Chem.) Defn: A name applied to the amorphous or crystalline mass obtained from bile by the action of alcohol and ether. It is composed of a mixture of the sodium salts of the bile acids. BILINEAR Bi*lin"e*ar, a. (Math.) Defn: Of, pertaining to, or included by, two lines; as, bilinear coördinates. BILINGUAL Bi*lin"gual, a. Etym: [L. bilinguis; bis twice + lingua tongue, language.] Defn: Containing, or consisting of, two languages; expressed in two languages; as, a bilingual inscription; a bilingual dictionary. -- Bi*lin"gual*ly, adv. BILINGUALISM Bi*lin"gual*ism, n. Defn: Quality of being bilingual. The bilingualism of King's English. Earle. BILINGUAR Bi*lin"guar, a. Defn: See Bilingual. BILINGUIST Bi*lin"guist, n. Defn: One versed in two languages. BILINGUOUS Bi*lin"guous, a. Etym: [L. bilinguis.] Defn: Having two tongues, or speaking two languages. [Obs.] BILIOUS Bil"ious, a. Etym: [L. biliosus, fr. bilis bile.] 1. Of or pertaining to the bile. 2. Disordered in respect to the bile; troubled with and excess of bile; as, a bilious patient; dependent on, or characterized by, an excess of bile; as, bilious symptoms. 3. Choleric; passionate; ill tempered. "A bilious old nabob." Macaulay. Bilious temperament. See Temperament. BILIOUSNESS Bil"ious*ness, n. Defn: The state of being bilious. BILIPRASIN Bil`i*pra"sin, n. Etym: [L. bilis bile + prasinus green.] (Physiol.) Defn: A dark green pigment found in small quantity in human gallstones. BILIRUBIN Bil`i*ru"bin, n. Etym: [L. bilis biel + ruber red.] (Physiol.) Defn: A reddish yellow pigment present in human bile, and in that from carnivorous and herbivorous animals; the normal biliary pigment. BILITERAL Bi*lit"er*al, a. Etym: [L. bis twice + littera letter.] Defn: Consisting of two letters; as, a biliteral root of a Sanskrit verb. Sir W. Jones. -- n. Defn: A word, syllable, or root, consisting of two letters. BILITERALISM Bi*lit"er*al*ism, n. Defn: The property or state of being biliteral. BILIVERDIN Bil`i*ver"din, n. Etym: [L. bilis bile + viridis green. Cf. Verdure.] (Physiol.) Defn: A green pigment present in the bile, formed from bilirubin by oxidation. BILK Bilk, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Bilked; p. pr. & vb. n. Bilking.] Etym: [Origin unknown. Cf. Balk.] Defn: To frustrate or disappoint; to deceive or defraud, by nonfulfillment of engagement; to leave in the lurch; to give the slip to; as, to bilk a creditor. Thackeray. BILK Bilk, n. 1. A thwarting an adversary in cribbage by spoiling his score; a balk. 2. A cheat; a trick; a hoax. Hudibras. 3. Nonsense; vain words. B. Jonson. 4. A person who tricks a creditor; an untrustworthy, tricky person. Marryat. BILL Bill, n. Etym: [OE. bile, bille, AS. bile beak of a bird, proboscis; cf. Ir. & Gael. bil, bile, mouth, lip, bird's bill. Cf. Bill a weapon.] Defn: A beak, as of a bird, or sometimes of a turtle or other animal. Milton. BILL Bill, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Billed; p. pr. & vb. n. Billing.] 1. To strike; to peck. [Obs.] 2. To join bills, as doves; to caress in fondness. "As pigeons bill." Shak. To bill and coo, to interchange caresses; -- said of doves; also of demonstrative lovers. Thackeray. BILL Bill, n. Defn: The bell, or boom, of the bittern The bittern's hollow bill was heard. Wordsworth. BILL Bill, n. Etym: [OE. bil, AS. bill, bil; akin to OS. bil sword, OHG. bill pickax, G. bille. Cf. Bill bea 1. A cutting instrument, with hook-shaped point, and fitted with a handle; -- used in pruning, etc.; a billhook. When short, called a hand bill, when long, a hedge bill. 2. A weapon of infantry, in the 14th and 15th centuries. A common form of bill consisted of a broad, heavy, double-edged, hook-shaped blade, having a short pike at the back and another at the top, and attached to the end of a long staff. France had no infantry that dared to face the English bows end bills. Macaulay. 3. One who wields a bill; a billman. Strype. 4. A pickax, or mattock. [Obs.] 5. (Naut.) Defn: The extremity of the arm of an anchor; the point of or beyond the fluke. BILL Bill, v. t. Defn: To work upon ( as to dig, hoe, hack, or chop anything) with a bill. BILL Bill, n. Etym: [OE. bill, bille, fr. LL. billa (or OF. bille), for L. bulla anything rounded, LL., seal, stamp, letter, edict, roll; cf. F. bille a ball, prob. fr. Ger.; cf. MHG. bickel, D. bikkel, dice. Cf. Bull papal edict, Billet a paper.] 1. (Law) Defn: A declaration made in writing, stating some wrong the complainant has suffered from the defendant, or a fault committed by some person against a law. 2. A writing binding the signer or signers to pay a certain sum at a future day or on demand, with or without interest, as may be stated in the document. [Eng.] Note: In the United States, it is usually called a note, a note of hand, or a promissory note. 3. A form or draft of a law, presented to a legislature for enactment; a proposed or projected law. 4. A paper, written or printed, and posted up or given away, to advertise something, as a lecture, a play, or the sale of goods; a placard; a poster; a handbill. She put up the bill in her parlor window. Dickens. 5. An account of goods sold, services rendered, or work done, with the price or charge; a statement of a creditor's claim, in gross or by items; as, a grocer's bill. 6. Any paper, containing a statement of particulars; as, a bill of charges or expenditures; a weekly bill of mortality; a bill of fare, etc. Bill of adventure. See under Adventure. -- Bill of costs, a statement of the items which form the total amount of the costs of a party to a suit or action. -- Bill of credit. (a) Within the constitution of the United States, a paper issued by a State, on the mere faith and credit of the State, and designed to circulate as money. No State shall "emit bills of credit." U. S. Const. Peters. Wharton. Bouvier (b) Among merchants, a letter sent by an agent or other person to a merchant, desiring him to give credit to the bearer for goods or money. -- Bill of divorce, in the Jewish law, a writing given by the husband to the wife, by which the marriage relation was dissolved. Jer. iii. 8. -- Bill of entry, a written account of goods entered at the customhouse, whether imported or intended for exportation. -- Bill of exceptions. See under Exception. -- Bill of exchange (Com.), a written order or request from one person or house to another, desiring the latter to pay to some person designated a certain sum of money therein generally is, and, to be negotiable, must be, made payable to order or to bearer. So also the order generally expresses a specified time of payment, and that it is drawn for value. The person who draws the bil is called the drawer, the person on whom it is drawn is, before acceptance, called the drawee, -- after acceptance, the acceptor; the person to whom the money is directed to be paid is called the payee. The person making the order may himself be the payee. The bill itself is frequently called a draft. See Exchange. Chitty. -- Bill of fare, a written or printed enumeration of the dishes served at a public table, or of the dishes (with prices annexed) which may be ordered at a restaurant, etc. -- Bill of health, a certificate from the proper authorities as to the state of health of a ship's company at the time of her leaving port. -- Bill of indictment, a written accusation lawfully presented to a grand jury. If the jury consider the evidence sufficient to support the accusation, they indorse it "A true bill," or "Not found," or "Ignoramus", or "Ignored." -- Bill of lading, a written account of goods shipped by any person, signed by the agent of the owner of the vessel, or by its master, acknowledging the receipt of the goods, and promising to deliver them safe at the place directed, dangers of the sea excepted. It is usual for the master to sign two, three, or four copies of the bill; one of which he keeps in possession, one is kept by the shipper, and one is sent to the consignee of the goods. -- Bill of mortality, an official statement of the number of deaths in a place or district