[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

a washout. 2. A watery appearance in the sky, accompanying the rainbow; a secondary or broken rainbow. These water galls, in her dim element, Foretell new storms to those already spent. Shak. False good news are [is] always produced by true good, like the water gall by the rainbow. Walpole. WATER GANG Wa"ter gang`. (O. E. Law) Defn: A passage for water, such as was usually made in a sea wall, to drain water out of marshes. Burrill. WATER GAS Wa"ter gas`. (Chem.) Defn: See under Gas. WATER GATE Wa"ter gate`. Defn: A gate, or valve, by which a flow of water is permitted, prevented, or regulated. WATER GAUGE Wa"ter gauge`. [Written also water gage.] 1. A wall or bank to hold water back. Craig. 2. An instrument for measuring or ascertaining the depth or quantity of water, or for indicating the height of its surface, as in the boiler of a steam engine. See Gauge. WATER GAVEL Wa"ter gav"el. (O. Eng. Law) Defn: A gavel or rent paid for a privilege, as of fishing, in some river or water. WATER GERMANDER Wa"ter ger*man"der. (Bot.) Defn: A labiate plant (Teucrium Scordium) found in marshy places in Europe. WATER GILDING Wa"ter gild"ing. Defn: The act, or the process, of gilding metallic surfaces by covering them with a thin coating of amalgam of gold, and then volatilizing the mercury by heat; -- called also wash gilding. WATER GLASS Wa"ter glass`. (Chem.) Defn: See Soluble glass, under Glass. WATER GOD Wa"ter god`. (Myth.) Defn: A fabulous deity supposed to dwell in, and preside over, some body of water. WATER GRASS Water grass. (a) A tall march perennial grass (Paspalum dilatatum) of the southern United States and the American tropics. (b) Manna grass. (c) The grass Chloris elegans. (d) [Dial. Eng.] (1) Velvet grass. (2) Defn: The water cress. (3) Defn: One of various horsetails. WATER GRUEL Wa"ter gru"el. Defn: A liquid food composed of water and a small portion of meal, or other farinaceous substance, boiled and seasoned. WATER HAMMER Wa"ter ham"mer. (Physics) 1. A vessel partly filled with water, exhausted of air, and hermetically sealed. When reversed or shaken, the water being unimpeded by air, strikes the sides in solid mass with a sound like that of a hammer. 2. A concussion, or blow, made by water in striking, as against the sides of a pipe or vessel containing it. WATER HARE Wa"ter hare. (Zoöl.) Defn: A small American hare or rabbit (Lepus aquaticus) found on or near the southern coasts of the United States; -- called also water rabbit, and swamp hare. WATER HEMLOCK Wa"ter hem"lock. (Bot) (a) A poisonous umbelliferous plant (Cicuta virosa) of Europe; also, any one of several plants of that genus. (b) A poisonous plant () resembling the above. WATER HEMP Wa"ter hemp`. (Bot.) Defn: See under Hemp. WATER HEN Wa"ter hen`. 1. (Zoöl.) Defn: Any gallinule. 2. (Zoöl.) Defn: The common American coot. WATER HOG Wa"ter hog`. (Zoöl.) Defn: The capybara. WATER HOREHOUND Wa"ter hore"hound`. (Bot.) Defn: Bugleweed. WATERHORSE Wa"ter*horse`, n. Defn: A pile of salted fish heaped up to drain. WATER HYACINTH Wa"ter hy"a*cinth. (Bot.) Defn: Either of several tropical aquatic plants of the genus Eichhornia, related to the pickerel weed. WATER ICE Wa"ter ice`. Defn: Water flavored, sweetened, and frozen, to be eaten as a confection. WATERIE Wa"ter*ie, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: The pied wagtail; -- so called because it frequents ponds. WATER INCH Wa"ter inch`. Defn: Same as Inch of water, under Water. WATERINESS Wa"ter*i*ness, n. Defn: The quality or state of being watery; moisture; humidity. WATERING Wa"ter*ing, Defn: a. & n. from Water, v. Watering call (Mil.), a sound of trumpet or bugle summoning cavalry soldiers to assemble for the purpose of watering their horses. -- Watering cart, a sprinkling cart. See Water. -- Watering place. (a) A place where water may be obtained, as for a ship, for cattle, etc. (b) A place where there are springs of medicinal water, or a place by the sea, or by some large body of water, to which people resort for bathing, recreation, boating, etc. -- Watering pot. (a) A kind of bucket fitted with a rose, or perforated nozzle, -- used for watering flowers, paths, etc. (b) (Zoöl.) Any one of several species of marine bivalve shells of the genus Aspergillum, or Brechites. The valves are small, and consolidated with the capacious calcareous tube which incases the entire animal. The tube is closed at the anterior end by a convex disk perforated by numerous pores, or tubules, and resembling the rose of a watering pot. -- Watering trough, a trough from which cattle, horses, and other animals drink. WATERISH Wa"ter*ish, a. Etym: [AS. wæterisc.] 1. Resembling water; thin; watery. Feed upon such nice and waterish diet. Shak. 2. Somewhat watery; moist; as, waterish land. WATERISHNESS Wa"ter*ish*ness, n. Defn: The quality of being waterish. WATER JACKET Wa"ter jac"ket. Defn: A chamber surrounding a vessel or tube in which water may be circulated, thereby regulating the temperature or supply of heat to the vessel. Used in laboratory and manufacturing equipment. water- jacketed. Having a water jacket; -- as, a water-jacketed condenser. WATER JOINT Wa"ter joint`. (Arch.) Defn: A joint in a stone pavement where the stones are left slightly higher than elsewhere, the rest of the surface being sunken or dished. The raised surface is intended to prevent the settling of water in the joints. WATER JUNKET Wa"ter jun"ket. (Zoöl.) Defn: The common sandpiper. WATER-LAID Wa"ter-laid`, a. Defn: Having a left-hand twist; -- said of cordage; as, a water-laid, or left-hand, rope. WATERLANDER; WATERLANDIAN Wa`ter*land"er, Wa`ter*land"i*an n. (Eccl. Hist.) Defn: One of a body of Dutch Anabaptists who separated from the Mennonites in the sixteenth century; -- so called from a district in North Holland denominated Waterland. WATER LAVEROCK Wa"ter la"ver*ock. (Zoöl.) Defn: The common sandpiper. WATERLEAF Wa"ter*leaf`, n. (Bot.) Defn: Any plant of the American genus Hydrophyllum, herbs having white or pale blue bell-shaped flowers. Gray. WATER LEG Wa"ter leg`. (Steam Boilers) Defn: See Leg, 7. WATER LEMON Wa"ter lem"on. (Bot.) Defn: The edible fruit of two species of passion flower (Passiflora laurifolia, and P. maliformis); -- so called in the West Indies. WATERLESS Wa"ter*less, a. Defn: Destitute of water; dry. Chaucer. WATER LETTUCE Wa"ter let"tuce. (Bot.) Defn: A plant (Pistia stratiotes) which floats on tropical waters, and forms a rosette of spongy, wedge-shaped leaves. J. Smith (Dict. Econ. Plants). WATER LEVEL Wa"ter lev"el. 1. The level formed by the surface of still water. 2. A kind of leveling instrument. See under Level, n. WATER LILY Wa"ter lil`y. (Bot.) Defn: A blossom or plant of any species of the genus Nymphæa, distinguished for its large floating leaves and beautiful flowers. See Nymphæa. Note: The name is extended to various plants of other related genera, as Nuphar, Euryale, Nelumbo, and Victoria. See Euryale, Lotus, and Victoria, 1. WATER LIME Wa"ter lime`. Defn: Hydraulic lime. WATER LINE Wa"ter line`. 1. (Shipbuilding) Defn: Any one of certain lines of a vessel, model, or plan, parallel with the surface of the water at various heights from the keel. Note: In a half-breadth plan, the water lines are outward curves showing the horizontal form of the ship at their several heights; in a sheer plan, they are projected as straight horizontal lines. 2. (Naut.) Defn: Any one of several lines marked upon the outside of a vessel, corresponding with the surface of the water when she is afloat on an even keel. The lowest line indicates the vessel's proper submergence when not loaded, and is called the light water line; the highest, called the load water line, indicates her proper submergence when loaded. Water-line model (Shipbuilding), a model of a vessel formed of boards which are shaped according to the water lines as shown in the plans and laid upon each other to form a solid model. WATER LIZARD Wa"ter liz"ard. (Zoöl.) Defn: Any aquatic lizard of the genus Varanus, as the monitor of the Nile. See Monitor, n., 3. WATER LOCUST Wa"ter lo"cust. (Bot.) Defn: A thorny leguminous tree (Gleditschia monosperma) which grows in the swamps of the Mississippi valley. WATER-LOGGED Wa"ter-logged, a. Defn: Filled or saturated with water so as to be heavy, unmanageable, or loglike; -- said of a vessel, when, by receiving a great quantity of water into her hold, she has become so heavy as not to be manageable by the helm. WATERMAN Wa"ter*man, n.; pl. Watermen (. 1. A man who plies for hire on rivers, lakes, or canals, or in harbors, in distinction from a seaman who is engaged on the high seas; a man who manages fresh-water craft; a boatman; a ferryman. 2. An attendant on cab stands, etc., who supplies water to the horses. [Eng.] Dickens. 3. A water demon. Tylor. WATERMANSHIP Wa"ter*man*ship`, n. 1. The business or skill of a waterman. 2. Art of, or skill in, rowing; oarsmanship; specif., skill in managing the blade in the water, as distinguished from managing arms, body, etc., in the stroke. WATERMARK Wa"ter*mark`,