[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

rod or piece for transmitting force or motion, especially a short connecting rod with a bearing at each end; specifically (Steam Engine), the slotted bar, or connecting piece, to the opposite ends of which the eccentric rods are jointed, and by means of which the movement of the valve is varied, in a link motion. 6. (Surveying) Defn: The length of one joint of Gunter's chain, being the hundredth part of it, or 7.92 inches, the chain being 66 feet in length. Cf. Chain, n., 4. 7. (Chem.) Defn: A bond of affinity, or a unit of valence between atoms; -- applied to a unit of chemical force or attraction. 8. pl. Defn: Sausages; -- because linked together. [Colloq.] LINK Link, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Linked; p. pr. & vb. n. Linking.] Defn: To connect or unite with a link or as with a link; to join; to attach; to unite; to couple. All the tribes and nations that composed it [the Roman Empire] were linked together, not only by the same laws and the same government, but by all the facilities of commodious intercourse, and of frequent communication. Eustace. LINK Link, v. i. Defn: To be connected. No one generation could link with the other. Burke. LINKAGE Link"age, n. 1. The act of linking; the state of being linked; also, a system of links. 2. (Chem.) Defn: Manner of linking or of being linked; -- said of the union of atoms or radicals in the molecule. 3. (Geom.) Defn: A system of straight lines or bars, fastened together by joins, and having certain of their points fixed in a plane. It is used to describe straight lines and curves in the plane. LINKBOY; LINKMAN Link"boy`, Link"man, n. Etym: [See 1st Link.] Defn: A boy or man that carried a link or torch to light passengers. LINK MOTION Link" mo"tion. (Steam Engine) Defn: A valve gear, consisting of two eccentrics with their rods, giving motion to a slide valve by an adjustable connecting bar, called the link, in such a way that the motion of the engine can be reversed, or the cut-off varied, at will; -- used very generally in locomotives and marine engines. Note: The illustration shows a link motion for a vertical engine, c representing the shaft carrying two eccentrics, a and b, for making the engine run forward and backward, respectively, their rods e and d being jointed to opposite ends of the slotted link f, in the opening of which is a pin g which is attached to the valve rod h. The valve will receive the motion of the forward eccentric when is in the position shown, and the motion of the backward eccentric when the link is shifted so far to the right as to bring e in line with h, or a compound motion derived from both eccentrics when the link is shifted to intermediate positions, the compound motion causing the valve to cut off the steam at a point determined by the position to which the link may have been shifted. LINKS Links, n. [The pl. form of Link, but often construed as a sing.] Defn: A tract of ground laid out for the game of golf; a golfing green. A second links has recently been opened at Prestwick, and another at Troon, on the same coast. P. P. Alexander. LINKWORK Link"work`, n. 1. A fabric consisting of links made of metal or other material fastened together; also, a chain. And thou shalt make hooks of gold, and two chains of fine gold; linkwork and wreathed. Udall. 2. Mechanism in which links, or intermediate connecting pieces, are employed to transmit motion from one part to another. LINNAEA BOREALIS Lin*næ"a bo`re*a"lis. Etym: [NL.Linnaeus Linnæan + L. borealis northern.] (Bot.) Defn: The twin flower which grows in cold northern climates. LINNAEAN; LINNEAN Lin*næ"an, Lin*ne"an, a. Defn: Of or pertaining to Linnæus, the celebrated Swedish botanist. Linnaean system (Bot.), the system in which the classes are founded mainly upon the stamens, and the orders upon the pistils; the artificial or sexual system. LINNAEITE Lin*næ"ite, n. Etym: [See Linnæan.] (Min.) Defn: A mineral of pale steel-gray color and metallic luster, occurring in isometric crystals, and also massive. It is a sulphide of cobalt containing some nickel or copper. LINNE Linne, n. Defn: Flax. See Linen. [Obs.] LINNET Lin"net, n. Etym: [F. linot, linotte, from L. linum flax; or perh. shortened from AS.linetwige, fr. AS. lin flax; -- so called because it feeds on the seeds of flax and hemp. See Linen.] (Zoöl.) Defn: Any one of several species of fringilline birds of the genera Linota, Acanthis, and allied genera, esp. the common European species (L. cannabina), which, in full summer plumage, is chestnut brown above, with the breast more or less crimson. The feathers of its head are grayish brown, tipped with crimson. Called also gray linnet, red linnet, rose linnet, brown linnet, lintie, lintwhite, gorse thatcher, linnet finch, and greater redpoll. The American redpoll linnet (Acanthis linaria) often has the crown and throat rosy. See Redpoll, and Twite. Green linnet (Zoöl.), the European green finch. LINOLEATE Li*no"le*ate, n. (Chem.) Defn: A salt of linoleic acid. LINOLEIC Li*no"le*ic, a. Defn: Pertaining to, or derived from, linoleum, or linseed oil; specifically (Chem.), designating an organic acid, a thin yellow oil, found combined as a salt of glycerin in oils of linseed, poppy, hemp, and certain nuts. LINOLEUM Li*no"le*um, n. Etym: [L. linum flax + oleum oil.] 1. Linseed oil brought to various degrees of hardness by some oxidizing process, as by exposure to heated air, or by treatment with chloride of sulphur. In this condition it is used for many of the purposes to which India rubber has been applied. 2. A kind of floor cloth made by laying hardened linseed oil mixed with ground cork on a canvas backing. LINOTYPE Lin"o*type, n. [See Line ; Type.] (Print.) (a) A kind of typesetting machine which produces castings, each of which corresponds to a line of separate types. By pressing upon keys like those of a typewriter the matrices for one line are properly arranged; the stereotype, or slug, is then cast and planed, and the matrices are returned to their proper places, the whole process being automatic. (b) The slug produced by the machine, or matter composed in such lines. --Lin"o*typ`ist (#), n. LINOXIN Li*nox"in, n. Etym: [Linoleic + oxygen.] (Chem.) Defn: A resinous substance obtained as an oxidation product of linoleic acid. [Written also linoxyn.] LINSANG Lin*sang", n. (Zoöl.) Defn: Any viverrine mammal of the genus Prionodon, inhabiting the East Indies and Southern Asia. The common East Indian linsang (P. gracilis) is white, crossed by broad, black bands. The Guinea linsang (Porana Richardsonii) is brown with black spots. LINSEED Lin"seed`, n. Etym: [OE. lin flax + seed. See Linen.] (Bot.) Defn: The seeds of flax, from which linseed oil is obtained. [Written also lintseed.] Linseed cake, the solid mass or cake which remains when oil is expressed. -- Linseed meal, linseed cake reduced to powder. -- Linseed oil, oil obtained by pressure from flaxseed. LINSEY Lin"sey, n. Etym: [See Linen.] Defn: Linsey-woolsey. LINSEY-WOOLSEY Lin"sey-wool"sey, n. 1. Cloth made of linen and wool, mixed. 2. Jargon. [Obs.] Shak. LINSEY-WOOLSEY Lin"sey-wool"sey, a. Defn: Made of linen and wool; hence, of different and unsuitable parts; mean. Johnson. LINSTOCK Lin"stock, n. Etym: [Corrupt. fr. luntstock, D. lonistok; lont lunt + stok stock, stick. See Link a torch, Lunt, and Stock.] Defn: A pointed forked staff, shod with iron at the foot, to hold a lighted match for firing cannon. [Written also lintstock.] LINT Lint, n. Etym: [AS. linet flax, hemp, fr. lin flax; or, perh. borrowed fr. L. linteum a linen cloth, linen, from linteus linen, a., fr. lineum flax, lint. See Linen.] 1. Flax. 2. Linen scraped or otherwise made into a soft, downy or fleecy substance for dressing wounds and sores; also, fine ravelings, down, fluff, or loose short fibers from yarn or fabrics. Lint doctor (Calico-printing Mach.), a scraper to remove lint from a printing cylinder. LINTEL Lin"tel, n. Etym: [OE. lintel, F. linteau, LL. lintellus, for limitellus, a dim. fr. L. limes limit. See Limit.] (Arch.) Defn: A horizontal member spanning an opening, and carrying the superincumbent weight by means of its strength in resisting crosswise fracture. LINTIE; LINTWHITE Lin"tie, Lint"white`, n. Etym: [AS. linetwige. See Linnet.] (Zoöl.) Defn: See Linnet. Tennyson. LINTSEED Lint"seed`, n. Defn: See Linseed. LINUM Li"num, n. Etym: [L., flax.] (Bot.) Defn: A genus of herbaceous plants including the flax (Linum usitatissimum). LION Li"on, n. Etym: [F. lion, L. leo, -onis, akin to Gr. Chameleon, Dandelion, Leopard.] 1. (Zoöl.) Defn: A large carnivorous feline mammal (Felis leo), found in Southern Asia and in most parts of Africa, distinct varieties occurring in the different countries. The adult male, in most varieties, has a thick mane of long shaggy hair that adds to his apparent size, which is less than that of the largest tigers. The length, however, is sometimes eleven