[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #33642]

sweating now. His hands were clenched into fists. He was almost certain that the argument was for his benefit: to make their seeming acquiescence less suspicious. _I'm coming out. One of you come to me._ Walt let out his breath. "There's a chance--" He went to the table and scooped up the birth certificates. "I hope one of these fits." "Walt!" Julia cried. "If it doesn't!" "... they were my friends," he said. "I was raised with them. Maybe they'll believe me anyway. Bob and Jim and Dave and Reg and Willy...." Walt shrugged. He crossed to the doorway. He left the laboratory. Just outside he waited. One of the five saucer ships approached. He could see Julia's face at the window. It was drawn and pathetic. He wanted to go back and comfort her and tell her everything was going to be all right. How sweet she was! Now that she was no longer infinitely wise and superior, now that she was dependent and helpless: how sweet she was! He wanted to protect her. His heart swelled with sadness and with joy. The saucer ship hovered. He motioned it closer. It drew in toward him like a nervous colt. He waited. He motioned it closer. At last, just in front of him, it jolted down. Willy got out. Walt watched as the horror of openness flickered across his face. _You'll get used to it_, Walt thought. _You'll like it, when you get used to it._ Willy clutched the side of the ship for support. _I'm, I'm all right, inside the ship.... You come inside._ He clambered back out of sight. Caution counseled refusal. But Walt approached the entrance. His increased knowledge made him confident. He had learned much--just in the last day. He was more than a match for a single mutant from the space station. If he had known as much last Monday as he knew now, Julia would never have escaped. He entered. Willy pulled the door closed. He was breathing heavily. _Take off your shoes!_ Walt commanded. Walt knew Willy was going to try to start the ship, try to move it away so that Walt's shield would no longer cover the laboratory. Once that happened, the mutants on the outside could blast the laboratory in a second. _What?_ Slowly, Willy was moving the starting lever by teleportation. Walt located the focus rod. _Take your shoes off!_ * * * * * Suspiciously Willy glanced back mentally at the other saucer ships a short distance behind. Willy hesitated. Then he sat down and removed his shoes. He watched Walt closely. The starting lever continued to inch into position. Walt knew Willy wouldn't risk a sudden motion. But Walt was wrong. As he bent down, the lever snapped in place. The saucer shuddered. And Walt, using the focus rod for power, fuzed the control panel in an instant beyond all use. Before the other mutants could strike, his extended shielding was back around himself and the laboratory. _You're going to listen_, Walt told him calmly. _All of you. You're an earthling. Every one of you. You were born here of Earth parents._ _Nonsense!_ _It's true. You shut up!_ Willy waited, uncertain. The others were equally uncertain. They had not been prepared for a failure in their initial plan. _I have proof. Right here._ Walt thought all the details to the mutants as rapidly and as sincerely as he could. His face was bloodless. His hand was shaking. The strain of holding the shielding was beginning to tell on him. Only two birth certificates were left. I've got to make them see that Forential had lied to them! he thought. The mutants were thinking the situation over in privacy, agreeing on a new course of action. And there it was! Wonder of wonders, the last birth certificate was Willy's! _See! See!_ Walt thought excitedly. _This proves what I was telling you! Look! All of you! They're the same!_ _It proves nothing_, Bob thought.... _It's faked._ _Is that the best you have to offer?_ one of them sneered. _Let's kill him! Get it over with!_ _How could I fake it?_ Walt demanded. He realized now what a pathetic hope it had been. He needed time; given that, the birth certificates would be very helpful in convincing them. But without time, he couldn't give them all the background they needed. And they weren't going to give him time. _Lyrian traitor!_ _You can't hold us all off, Walt. We're going to kill you._ Walt saw them--saw them mentally--landing their four ships. In a few minutes they would be upon him. He began to tremble in impotent rage. He backed toward the door to escape from the confining walls. He tried to make his shielding even stronger against their focus rods. Julia, waiting in the laboratory, heard her heart beating loudly and rapidly. The one saucer had landed. Walt had boarded it. The four were drifting, waiting. There was a hum from the signal generator behind her. Let him be all right, let him beat them off! she prayed. What's happening? How can I help? ... Perhaps because her mind was so fatigued that it was almost functioning on the automatic level of sleep, she realized at last why the two compartments in the space station had been kept separate. After the second wave of mutants destroyed the first--under the impression they were the Earth survivors of a war--the aliens would silence the second frequency transmitter. Earth would be populated by less than thirty male mutants. The race of man would not breed back. In a few years, the planet would be ready for its conquerors. I wish I could tell Walt that, she thought. Maybe it would be of some help to him. The four saucers landed. She bent forward tensely. Has he convinced them? Are they coming out to surrender? CHAPTER XII Walt was outside the ship. His feet planted firmly, he waited. The four advancing mutants were not yet adjusted to the space disorientation. Behind them, the tip of the Washington Monument loomed starkly white above the trees. Walt's anger rose to an even greater fury. He knew how Julia had felt as a child: the hot, impotent flare of rage; the senseless desire to throw something; to smash and destroy something; to disprove helplessness by some savage action. The mutants were closer; terror was dying out of their eyes. Their lips were relaxing. Their bodies were loosening to their wills. _We're going to kill you, Walt: with our hands._ _Lyrian traitor._ Walt was breathing in shallow gasps. They would rush him in a minute. Willy, out of the saucer ship now, crouched only yards away, ready to spring. He feinted, and Walt flinched instinctively. _You can't displace from five of us!_ _Not and hold the shielding, traitor!_ General Tibbets, in the doorway behind Walt, began firing at the mutants with a pistol. Bob clutched at his chest and staggered. In an instant, the others were displaced and invulnerable. Bob fell. Reg went to his wounded companion, held him in displacement, healed him rapidly. Bob coughed and shook his head and scrambled to his feet. He screamed his hate at the general. The pistol clicked on an empty chamber. Walt retreated several steps. _... green wartle rivers of Lyria; birdsong, there, in a skybranch, partly pretty orange and soft like fur pictures...._ He was in Calvin's mind! Calvin was sitting in the games space, on the floor, rolling the metal practice ball back and forth before him between his hairy hands. Forential was speaking. The confining walls of the space station were so comfortingly solid.... And Walt had a fix on it! Knew its position, its direction, its speed! He had an anchor! Where is something? he thought wildly. Quick! A rock! Throw a rock! Something big: to throw: quick! Huge, heavy-- * * * * * Forgotten, the advancing mutants. With every unit and sub unit and compartment and section of his mind, pouring out every available degree of telepathic power, dropping the shielding, concentrating above everything else, he seized the Washington Monument. It shook; it wobbled unsteadily; it wrenched free. Calvin, delighted, was helping him. _Walt!_ he cried. _We'll play games! We'll throw it!_ It was off the ground. It poised uncertainly. It moved upward. Slowly at first, like a rocket: faster and faster, dwindling from Earth, becoming a vanishing pinpoint like a black, daylight star. Calvin pulled it in with childish joy. _It's_ big! he cried proudly. It was aimed on target. Calvin was no longer in Walt's mind. With a last, exhausting burst of thought, he increased its already terrific speed. The laboratory still stood. The mutants had not realized his shielding was down. He restored it, weakened and quivering. And they were upon him. He fought them off with his fists and elbows. He dared not displace, lest the shielding should crumble entirely. A few minutes more; if I can just gain a few