[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

liberare to set free, in LL., to deliver up. See Liberate.] 1. (Eng. Law) (a) The act of delivering possession of lands or tenements. (b) The writ by which possession is obtained. Note: It is usual to say, livery of seizin, which is a feudal investiture, made by the delivery of a turf, of a rod, or twig, from the feoffor to the feoffee. In the United States, and now in Great Britain, no such ceremony is necessary, the delivery of a deed being sufficient. 2. Release from wardship; deliverance. It concerned them first to sue out their livery from the unjust wardship of his encroaching prerogative. Milton. 3. That which is delivered out statedly or formally, as clothing, food, etc.; especially: (a) The uniform clothing issued by feudal superiors to their retainers and serving as a badge when in military service. (b) The peculiar dress by which the servants of a nobleman or gentleman are distinguished; as, a claret-colored livery. (c) Hence, also, the peculiar dress or garb appropriated by any association or body of persons to their own use; as, the livery of the London tradesmen, of a priest, of a charity school, etc.; also, the whole body or company of persons wearing such a garb, and entitled to the privileges of the association; as, the whole livery of London. A Haberdasher and a Carpenter, A Webbe, a Dyer, and a Tapicer, And they were clothed all in one livery Of a solempne and a gret fraternite. Chaucer. From the periodical deliveries of these characteristic articles of servile costume (blue coats) came our word livery. De Quincey. (d) Hence, any characteristic dress or outward appearance. " April's livery." Sir P. Sidney. Now came still evening on, and twilight gray Had in her sober livery all things clad. Milton. (e) An allowance of food statedly given out; a ration, as to a family, to servants, to horses, etc. The emperor's officers every night went through the town from house to house whereat any English gentleman did repast or lodge, and served their liveries for all night: first, the officers brought into the house a cast of fine manchet [white bread], and of silver two great post, and white wine, and sugar. Cavendish. (f) The feeding, stabling, and care of horses for compensation; boarding; as, to keep one's horses at livery. What livery is, we by common use in England know well enough, namely, that is, allowance of horse meat, as to keep horses at livery, the which word, I guess, is derived of livering or delivering forth their nightly food. Spenser. It need hardly be observed that the explanation of livery which Spenser offers is perfectly correct, but . . . it is no longer applied to the ration or stated portion of food delivered at stated periods. Trench. (g) The keeping of horses in readiness to be hired temporarily for riding or driving; the state of being so kept. Pegasus does not stand at livery even at the largest establishment in Moorfields. Lowell. 4. A low grade of wool. Livery gown, the gown worn by a liveryman in London. LIVERY Liv"er*y, v. t. Defn: To clothe in, or as in, livery. Shak. LIVERYMAN Liv"er*y*man, n.; pl. Liverymen (. 1. One who wears a livery, as a servant. 2. A freeman of the city, in London, who, having paid certain fees, is entitled to wear the distinguishing dress or livery of the company to which he belongs, and also to enjoy certain other privileges, as the right of voting in an election for the lord mayor, sheriffs, chamberlain, etc. 3. One who keeps a livery stable. LIVERY STABLE Liv"er*y sta`ble Defn: . A stable where horses are kept for hire, and where stabling is provided. See Livery, n., 3 (e) (f) & (g). LIVES Lives, n.; Defn: pl. of Life. LIVES Lives, a. & adv. Etym: [Orig. a genitive sing. of life.] Defn: Alive; living; with life. [Obs.] " Any lives creature." Chaucer. LIVID Liv"id, a. Etym: [L. lividus, from livere to be of a blush color, to be black and blue: cf. F. livide.] Defn: Black and blue; grayish blue; of a lead color; discolored, as flesh by contusion. Cowper. There followed no carbuncles, no purple or livid spots, the mass of the blood not being tainted. Bacon. LIVIDITY Li*vid"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. lividité.] Defn: The state or quality of being livid. LIVIDNESS Liv"id*ness, n. Defn: Lividity. Walpole. LIVING Liv"ing, a. Etym: [From Live, v. i.] 1. Being alive; having life; as, a living creature. 2. Active; lively; vigorous; -- said esp. of states of the mind , and sometimes of abstract things; as, a living faith; a living principle. " Living hope. " Wyclif. 3. Issuing continually from the earth; running; flowing; as, a living spring; -- opposed to stagnant. 4. Producing life, action, animation, or vigor; quickening. " Living light." Shak. 5. Ignited; glowing with heat; burning; live. Then on the living coals wine they pour. Dryden. Living force. See Vis viva, under Vis. -- Living gale (Naut.), a heavy gale. Living rock or stone, rock in its native or original state or location; rock not quarried. " I now found myself on a rude and narrow stairway, the steps of which were cut of the living rock." Moore. -- The living, those who are alive, or one who is alive. LIVING Liv"ing, n. 1. The state of one who, or that which, lives; lives; life; existence. "Health and living." Shak. 2. Manner of life; as, riotous living; penurious living; earnest living. " A vicious living." Chaucer. 3. Means of subsistence; sustenance; estate. She can spin for her living. Shak. He divided unto them his living. Luke xv. 12. 4. Power of continuing life; the act of living, or living comfortably. There is no living without trusting somebody or other in some cases. L' Estrange. 5. The benefice of a clergyman; an ecclesiastical charge which a minister receives. [Eng.] He could not get a deanery, a prebend, or even a living Macaulay. Livng room, the room most used by the family. LIVINGLY Liv"ing*ly, adv. Defn: In a living state. Sir T. Browne. LIVINGNESS Liv"ing*ness, n. Defn: The state or quality of being alive; possession of energy or vigor; animation; quickening. LIVING PICTURE Liv"ing pic"ture. Defn: A tableau in which persons take part; also, specif., such a tableau as imitating a work of art. LIVONIAN Li*vo"ni*an, a. Defn: Of or pertaining to Livonia, a district of Russia near the Baltic Sea. LIVONIAN Li*vo"ni*an, n. Defn: A native or an inhabitant of Livonia; the language (allied to the Finnish) of the Livonians. LIVOR Li"vor, n. Etym: [L.] Defn: Malignity. [P.] Burton. LIVRAISON Li`vrai`son", n. Etym: [F., fr. L. liberatio a setting free, in LL., a delivering up. See Liberation.] Defn: A part of a book or literary composition printed and delivered by itself; a number; a part. LIVRE Li"vre, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. libra a pound of twelve ounces. Cf. Lira.] Defn: A French money of account, afterward a silver coin equal to 20 sous. It is not now in use, having been superseded by the franc. LIXIVIAL Lix*iv"i*al, a. Etym: [L. lixivius, fr. lix ashes, lye ashes, lye: cf. F. lixiviel.] 1. Impregnated with, or consisting of, alkaline salts extracted from wood ashes; impregnated with a salt or salts like a lixivium. Boyle. 2. Of the color of lye; resembling lye. 3. Having the qualities of alkaline salts extracted from wood ashes. Lixivial salts (Old Chem.), salts which are obtained by passing water through ashes, or by pouring it on them. LIXIVIATE; LIXIVITED Lix*iv"i*ate, Lix*iv"i*`ted, a. Etym: [From Lixivium.] 1. Of or pertaining to lye or lixivium; of the quality of alkaline salts. 2. Impregnated with salts from wood ashes. Boyle. LIXIVIATE Lix*iv"i*ate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Lixiviated; p. pr. & vb. n. Lixiviating.] Defn: To subject to a washing process for the purpose of separating soluble material from that which is insoluble; to leach, as ashes, for the purpose of extracting the alkaline substances. LIXIVIATION Lix*iv`i*a"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. lixiviation.] Defn: Lixiviating; the process of separating a soluble substance form one that is insoluble, by washing with some solvent, as water; leaching. LIXIVIOUS Lix*iv"i*ous, a. Defn: See Lixivial. LIXIVIUM Lix*iv"i*um, n. Etym: [L. lixivium, lixivia. See Lixivial.] Defn: A solution of alkaline salts extracted from wood ashes; hence, any solution obtained by lixiviation. LIXT Lixt, obs. Defn: 2d pers. sing. pres. of Lige, to lie, to tell lies, -- contracted for ligest. Chaucer. LIZA Li"za, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: The American white mullet (Mugil curema). LIZARD Liz"ard, n. Etym: [OE. lesarde, OF. lesarde, F. lézard, L. lacerta, lacertus. Cf. Alligator, Lacerta.] 1. (Zoöl.) Defn: Any one of the numerous species of reptiles belonging to the order Lacertilia; sometimes, also applied to reptiles of other orders, as the Hatteria. Note: Most lizards have an elongated body, with four legs, and a long tail; but there are some without legs, and some with a