[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

To traverse; to cross, as a river, boundary, etc.; to change sides. I must not go over Jordan. Deut. iv. 22. Let me go over, and see the good land that is beyond Jordan. Deut. iii. 25. Ishmael . . . departed to go over to the Ammonites. Jer. xli. 10. (b) To read, or study; to examine; to review; as, to go over one's accounts. If we go over the laws of Christianity, we shall find that . . . they enjoin the same thing. Tillotson. (c) To transcend; to surpass. (d) To be postponed; as, the bill went over for the session. (e) (Chem.) To be converted (into a specified substance or material); as, monoclinic sulphur goes over into orthorhombic, by standing; sucrose goes over into dextrose and levulose. -- To go through. (a) To accomplish; as, to go through a work. (b) To suffer; to endure to the end; as, to go through a surgical operation or a tedious illness. (c) To spend completely; to exhaust, as a fortune. (d) To strip or despoil (one) of his property. [Slang] (e) To botch or bungle a business. [Scot.] -- To go through with, to perform, as a calculation, to the end; to complete. -- To go to ground. (a) To escape into a hole; -- said of a hunted fox. (b) To fall in battle. -- To go to naught (Colloq.), to prove abortive, or unavailling. -- To go under. (a) To set; -- said of the sun. (b) To be known or recognized by (a name, title, etc.). (c) To be overwhelmed, submerged, or defeated; to perish; to succumb. -- To go up, to come to nothing; to prove abortive; to fail. [Slang] -- To go upon, to act upon, as a foundation or hypothesis. -- To go with. (a) To accompany. (b) To coincide or agree with. (c) To suit; to harmonize with. -- To go (well, ill, or hard) with, to affect (one) in such manner. -- To go without, to be, or to remain, destitute of. -- To go wrong. (a) To take a wrong road or direction; to wander or stray. (b) To depart from virtue. (c) To happen unfortunately. (d) To miss success. -- To let go, to allow to depart; to quit one's hold; to release. GO Go, v. t. 1. To take, as a share in an enterprise; to undertake or become responsible for; to bear a part in. They to go equal shares in the booty. L'Estrange. 2. To bet or wager; as, I'll go you a shilling. [Colloq.] To go halves, to share with another equally. -- To go it, to behave in a wild manner; to be uproarious; to carry on; also, to proceed; to make progress. [Colloq.] -- To go it alone (Card Playing), to play a hand without the assistance of one's partner. -- To go it blind. (a) To act in a rash, reckless, or headlong manner. [Slang] (b) (Card Playing) To bet without having examined the cards. -- To go one's way, to set forth; to depart. GO Go, n. 1. Act; working; operation. [Obs.] So gracious were the goes of marriage. Marston. 2. A circumstance or occurrence; an incident. [Slang] This is a pretty go. Dickens. 3. The fashion or mode; as, quite the go. [Colloq.] 4. Noisy merriment; as, a high go. [Colloq.] 5. A glass of spirits. [Slang] 6. Power of going or doing; energy; vitality; perseverance; push; as, there is no go in him. [Colloq.] 7. (Cribbage) Defn: That condition in the course of the game when a player can not lay down a card which will not carry the aggregate count above thirty-one. Great go, Little go, the final and the preliminary examinations for a degree. [Slang, Eng. Univ.] -- No go, a failure; a fiasco. [Slang] Thackeray. -- On the go, moving about; unsettled. [Colloq.] GOA Go"a, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: A species of antelope (Procapra picticauda), inhabiting Thibet. GOAD Goad, n. Etym: [AS. gad; perh. akin to AS. gar a dart, and E. gore. See Gore, v. t.] Defn: A pointed instrument used to urge on a beast; hence, any necessity that urges or stimulates. The daily goad urging him to the daily toil. Macaulay. GOAD Goad, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Goaded; p. pr. & vb. n. Goading.] Defn: To prick; to drive with a goad; hence, to urge forward, or to rouse by anything pungent, severe, irritating, or inflaming; to stimulate. That temptation that doth goad us on. Shak. Syn. -- To urge; stimulate; excite; arouse; irritate; incite; instigate. GOAF Goaf; n.; pl. Goafs or Goaves. Etym: [Cf. lst Gob.] (Mining) Defn: That part of a mine from which the mineral has been partially or wholly removed; the waste left in old workings; -- called also gob . To work the goaf or gob, to remove the pillars of mineral matter previously left to support the roof, and replace them with props. Ure. GOAL Goal, n. Etym: [F. gaule pole, Prov. F. waule, of German origin; cf. Fries. walu staff, stick, rod, Goth. walus, Icel. völr a round stick; prob. akin to E. wale.] 1. The mark set to bound a race, and to or around which the constestants run, or from which they start to return to it again; the place at which a race or a journey is to end. Part curb their fiery steeds, or shun the goal With rapid wheels. Milton. 2. The final purpose or aim; the end to which a design tends, or which a person aims to reach or attain. Each individual seeks a several goal. Pope. 3. A base, station, or bound used in various games; in football, a line between two posts across which the ball must pass in order to score; also, the act of kicking the ball over the line between the goal posts. Goal keeper, the player charged with the defense of the goal. GOA POWDER Go"a pow"der. Etym: [So called from Goa, on the Malabar coast, whither it was shipped from Portugal.] Defn: A bitter powder (also called araroba) found in the interspaces of the wood of a Brazilian tree (Andira araroba) and used as a medicine. It is the material from which chrysarobin is obtained. GOAR Goar, n. Defn: Same as lst Gore. GOARISH Goar"ish, a. Defn: Patched; mean. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl. GOAT Goat, n. Etym: [OE goot, got, gat, AS. gat; akin to D. geit, OHG. geiz, G. geiss, Icel. geit, Sw. get, Dan. ged, Goth. gaits, L. haedus a young goat, kid.] (Zoöl.) Defn: A hollow-horned ruminant of the genus Capra, of several species and varieties, esp. the domestic goat (C. hircus), which is raised for its milk, flesh, and skin. Note: The Cashmere and Angora varieties of the goat have long, silky hair, used in the manufacture of textile fabrics. The wild or bezoar goat (Capra ægagrus), of Asia Minor, noted for the bezoar stones found in its stomach, is supposed to be one of the ancestral species ofthe domestic goat. The Rocky Montain goat (Haplocercus montanus) is more nearly related to the antelopes. See Mazame. Goat antelope (Zoöl), one of several species of antelopes, which in some respects resemble a goat, having recurved horns, a stout body, large hoofs, and a short, flat tail, as the goral, thar, mazame, and chikara. -- Goat fig (Bot.), the wild fig. -- Goat house. (a) A place for keeping goats. (b) A brothel. [Obs.] -- Goat moth (Zoöl.), any moth of the genus Cossus, esp. the large European species (C. ligniperda), the larva of which burrows in oak and willow trees, and requires three years to mature. It exhales an odor like that of the he-goat. -- Goat weed (Bot.), a scrophulariaceous plant, of the genus Capraria (C. biflora). -- Goat's bane (Bot.), a poisonous plant (Aconitum Lucoctonum), bearing pale yellow flowers, introduced from Switzerland into England; wolfsbane. -- Goat's beard (Bot.), a plant of the genus Tragopogon; -- so named from the long silky beard of the seeds. One species is the salsify or oyster plant. -- Goat's foot (Bot.), a kind of wood sorrel (Oxalis caprina) growing at the Cape of Good Hope. -- Goat's rue (Bot.), a leguminous plant (Galega officinalis of Europe, or Tephrosia Virginiana in the United States). -- Goat's thorn (Bot.), a thorny leguminous plant (Astragalus Tragacanthus), found in the Levant. -- Goat's wheat (Bot.), the genus Tragopyrum (now referred to Atraphaxis). GOATEE Goat`ee", n. Defn: A part of a man's beard on the chin or lower lip which is allowed to grow, and trimmed so as to resemble the beard of a goat. GOATFISH Goat"fish`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: A fish of the genus Upeneus, inhabiting the Gulf of Mexico. It is allied to the surmullet. GOATHERD Goat"herd`, n. Defn: One who tends goats. Spenser. GOATISH Goat"ish, a. Defn: Characteristic of a goat; goatlike. Give your chaste body up to the embraces Of goatish lust. Massinger. -- Goat"ish*ly, adv. -- Goat"ish*ness, n.