[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

and are not published to, the whole command, such as those relating to the movement of a particular corps, a detail, a temporary camp, etc. -- Special partner, a limited partner; a partner with a limited or restricted responsibility; -- unknown at common law. -- Special partnership, a limited or particular partnership; -- a term sometimes applied to a partnership in a particular business, operation, or adventure. -- Special plea in bar (Law), a plea setting forth particular and new matter, distinguished from the general issue. Bouvier. -- Special pleader (Law), originally, a counsel who devoted himself to drawing special counts and pleas; in a wider sense, a lawyer who draws pleadings. -- Special pleading (Law), the allegation of special or new matter, as distingiushed from a direct denial of matter previously alleged on the side. Bouvier. The popular denomination of the whole science of pleading. Stephen. The phrase is sometimes popularly applied to the specious, but unsound, argumentation of one whose aim is victory, and not truth. Burrill. -- Special property (Law), a qualified or limited ownership possession, as in wild animals, things found or bailed. -- Special session, an extraordinary session; a session at an unusual time or for an unusual purpose; as, a special session of Congress or of a legislature. -- Special statute, or Special law, an act of the legislature which has reference to a particular person, place, or interest; -- in distinction from a general law. -- Special verdict (Law), a special finding of the facts of the case, leaving to the court the application of the law to them. Wharton (Law Dict.). Syn. -- Peculiar; appropriate; specific; dictinctive; particular; exceptional; singular. See Peculiar. SPECIAL Spe"cial, n. 1. A particular. [Obs.] Hammond. 2. One appointed for a special service or occasion. In special, specially; in particular. Chaucer. SPECIALISM Spe"cial*ism, n. Defn: Devotion to a particular and restricted part or branch of knowledge, art, or science; as, medical specialism. SPECIALIST Spe"cial*ist, n. Defn: One who devotes himself to some specialty; as, a medical specialist, one who devotes himself to diseases of particular parts of the body, as the eye, the ear, the nerves, etc. SPECIALITY Spe`ci*al"i*ty, n.; pl. Specialities. Etym: [See Special, and Specialty.] 1. A particular or peculiar case; a particularity. Sir M. Hale. 2. (Law) Defn: See Specialty, 3. 3. The special or peculiar mark or characteristic of a person or thing; that for which a person is specially distinguished; an object of special attention; a special occupation or object of attention; a specialty. On these two general heads all other specialities are depedent. Hooker. Strive, while improving your one talent, to enrich your whole capital as a man. It is in this way that you escape from the wretched narrow- mindedness which is the characteristic of every one who cultivates his speciality. Ld. Lytton. We 'll say, instead, the inconsequent creature man, -For that'a his speciality. Mrs. Browning. Think of this, sir, . . . remote from the impulses of passion, and apart from the specialities -- if I may use that strong remark -- of prejudice. Dickens. 4. An attribute or quality peculiar to a species. SPECIALIZATION Spe`cial*i*za"tion, n. 1. The act of specializing, or the state of being spezialized. 2. (Biol.) Defn: The setting spart of a particular organ for the performance of a particular function. Darwin. SPECIALIZE Spe"cial*ize, v. t. 1. To mention specialy; to particularize. 2. To apply to some specialty or limited object; to assign to a specific use; as, specialized knowledge. 3. (Biol.) Defn: To supply with an organ or organs having a special function or functions. SPECIALLY Spe"cial*ly, adv. 1. In a special manner; partcularly; especially. Chaucer. 2. For a particular purpose; as, a meeting of the legislature is specially summoned. SPECIALTY Spe"cial*ty, n.; pl. Specialties. Etym: [F. spécialité. Cf. Speciality.] 1. Particularity. Specialty of rule hath been neglected. Shak. 2. A particular or peculiar case. [Obs.] 3. (Law) Defn: A contract or obligation under seal; a contract by deed; a writing, under seal, given as security for a debt particularly specified. Chitty. Bouvier. Wharton (Law Dict.). Let specialties be therefore drawn between us. Shak. 4. That for which a person is distinguished, in which he is specially versed, or which he makes an object of special attention; a speciality. Men of boundless knowledge, like Humbold, must have had once their specialty, their pet subject. C. Kingsley. SPECIE Spe"ci*e, Defn: abl. of L. species sort, kind. Used in the phrase in specie, that is, in sort, in kind, in (its own) form. "[The king] expects a return in specie from them" [i. e., kindness for kindness]. Dryden. In specie (Law), in precise or definite form; specifically; according to the exact terms; of the very thing. SPECIE Spe"cie, n. Etym: [Formed as a singular from species, in sense 5.] Defn: Coin; hard money. SPECIES Spe"cies, n. sing. & pl. Etym: [L., a sight, outward appearance, shape, form, a particular sort, kind, or quality, a species. See Spice, n., and cf. Specie, Special.] 1. Visible or sensible presentation; appearance; a sensible percept received by the imagination; an image. [R.] "The species of the letters illuminated with indigo and violet." Sir I. Newton. Wit, . . . the faculty of imagination in the writer, which searches over all the memory for the species or ideas of those things which it designs to represent. Dryden. Note: In the scholastic philosophy, the species was sensible and intelligible. The sensible species was that in any material, object which was in fact discerned by the mind through the organ of perception, or that in any object which rendered it possible that it should be perceived. The sensible species, as apprehended by the understanding in any of the relations of thought, was called an intelligible species. "An apparent diversity between the species visible and audible is, that the visible doth not mingle in the medium, but the audible doth." Bacon. 2. (Logic) Defn: A group of individuals agreeing in common attributes, and designated by a common name; a conception subordinated to another conception, called a genus, or generic conception, from which it differs in containing or comprehending more attributes, and extending to fewer individuals. Thus, man is a species, under animal as a genus; and man, in its turn, may be regarded as a genus with respect to European, American, or the like, as species. 3. In science, a more or less permanent group of existing things or beings, associated according to attributes, or properties determined by scientific observation. Note: In mineralogy and chemistry, objects which possess the same definite chemical structure, and are fundamentally the same in crystallization and physical characters, are classed as belonging to a species. In zoölogy and botany, a species is an ideal group of individuals which are believed to have descended from common ancestors, which agree in essential characteristics, and are capable of indefinitely continued fertile reproduction through the sexes. A species, as thus defined, differs from a variety or subspecies only in the greater stability of its characters and in the absence of individuals intermediate between the related groups. 4. A sort; a kind; a variety; as, a species of low cunning; a species of generosity; a species of cloth. 5. Coin, or coined silver, gold, ot other metal, used as a circulating medium; specie. [Obs.] There was, in the splendor of the Roman empire, a less quantity of current species in Europe than there is now. Arbuthnot. 6. A public spectacle or exhibition. [Obs.] Bacon. 7. (Pharmacy) (a) A component part of compound medicine; a simple. (b) (Med.) An officinal mixture or compound powder of any kind; esp., one used for making an aromatic tea or tisane; a tea mixture. Quincy. 8. (Civil Law) Defn: The form or shape given to materials; fashion or shape; form; figure. Burill. Incipient species (Zoöl.), a subspecies, or variety, which is in process of becoming permanent, and thus changing to a true species, usually by isolation in localities from which other varieties are excluded. SPECIFIABLE Spec"i*fi`a*ble, a. Defn: Admitting specification; capable of being specified. SPECIFIC Spe*cif"ic, a. Etym: [F. spécifique, or NL. cpesificus; L. species a particular sort or kind + facere to make. Cf. Specify.] 1. Of or pertaining to a species; characterizing or constituting a species; possessing the peculiar property or properties of a thing which constitute its species, and distinguish it from other things; as, the specific form of an animal or a plant; the specific qualities of a drug; the specific distinction between virtue and vice. Specific difference is that primary attribute which distinguishes each species from one another. I. Watts. 2. Specifying; definite, or making definite; limited; precise; discriminating; as, a specific statement. 3. (Med.) Defn: Exerting a peculiar influence over any part of the body; preventing or curing disease by a peculiar adaption, and not on general principles; as, quinine is a specific medicine in cases of malaria. In fact, all medicines will be found specific in the perfection of the science. Coleridge.