[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

red-: cf. F. re-, ré-.] Defn: A prefix signifying back, against, again, anew; as, recline, to lean back; recall, to call back; recede; remove; reclaim, to call out against; repugn, to fight against; recognition, a knowing again; rejoin, to join again; reiterate, reassure. Combinations containing the prefix re- are readily formed, and are for the most part of obvious signification. RE Re (ra). Etym: [It.] (Mus.) Defn: A syllable applied in solmization to the second tone of the diatonic scale of C; in the American system, to the second tone of any diatonic scale. REABSORB Re`ab*sorb", v. t. Defn: To absorb again; to draw in, or imbibe, again what has been effused, extravasated, or thrown off; to swallow up again; as, to reabsorb chyle, lymph, etc.; -- used esp. of fluids. REABSORPTION Re`ab*sorp"tion, n. Defn: The act or process of rearbsorbing. REACCESS Re`ac*cess", n. Defn: A second access or approach; a return. Hakewill. REACCUSE Re"ac*cuse", v. t. Defn: To accuse again. Cheyne. REACH Reach, n. Defn: An effort to vomit. [R.] REACH Reach, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Reached (Raught, the old preterit, is obsolete); p. pr. & vb. n. Reaching.] Etym: [OE. rechen, AS. ræcan, ræcean, to extend, stretch out; akin to D. reiken, G. reichen, and possibly to AS. rice powerful, rich, E. rich. sq. root115.] 1. To extend; to stretch; to thrust out; to put forth, as a limb, a member, something held, or the like. Her tresses yellow, and long straughten, Unto her heeles down they raughten. Rom. of R. Reach hither thy hand and thrust it into my side. John xx. 27. Fruit trees, over woody, reached too far Their pampered boughs. Milton. 2. Hence, to deliver by stretching out a member, especially the hand; to give with the hand; to pass to another; to hand over; as, to reach one a book. He reached me a full cap. 2 Esd. xiv. 39. 3. To attain or obtain by stretching forth the hand; too extend some part of the body, or something held by one, so as to touch, strike, grasp, or the like; as, to reach an object with the hand, or with a spear. O patron power, . . . thy present aid afford, Than I may reach the beast. Dryden. 4. To strike, hit, or tough with a missile; as, to reach an object with an arrow, a bullet, or a shell. 5. Hence, to extend an action, effort, or influence to; to penetrate to; to pierce, or cut, as far as. If these examples of grown men reach not the case of children, let them examine. Locke. 6. To extend to; to stretch out as far as; to touch by virtue of extent; as, his hand reaches the river. Thy desire . . . leads to no excess That reaches blame. Milton. 7. To arrive at by effort of any kind; to attain to; to gain; to be advanced to. The best account of the appearances of nature which human penetration can reach, comes short of its reality. Cheyne. 9. To understand; to comprehend. [Obs.] Do what, sir I reach you not. Beau. & Fl. 10. To overreach; to deceive. [Obs.] South. REACH Reach, v. t. 1. To stretch out the hand. Goddess humane, reach, then, and freely taste! Milton. 2. To strain after something; to make efforts. Reaching above our nature does no good. Dryden. 3. To extend in dimension, time, amount, action, influence, etc., so as to touch, attain to, or be equal to, something. And behold, a ladder set upon the earth, and the top of it reached to heaven. Gen. xxviii. 12. The new world reaches quite across the torrid zone. Boyle. 4. (Naut.) Defn: To sail on the wind, as from one point of tacking to another, or with the ind nearly abeam. To reach after or at, to make efforts to attain to or obtain. He would be in the mind reaching after a positive idea of infinity. Locke. REACH Reach, n. 1. The act of stretching or extending; extension; power of reaching or touching with the person, or a limb, or something held or thrown; as, the fruit is beyond my reach; to be within reach of cannon shot. 2. The power of stretching out or extending action, influence, or the like; power of attainment or management; extent of force or capacity. Drawn by others who had deeper reaches than themselves to matters which they least intended. Hayward. Be sure yourself and your own reach to know. Pope. 3. Extent; stretch; expanse; hence, application; influence; result; scope. And on the left hand, hell, With long reach, interposed. Milton. I am to pray you not to strain my speech To grosser issues, nor to larger reach Than to suspicion. Shak. 4. An extended portion of land or water; a stretch; a straight portion of a stream or river, as from one turn to another; a level stretch, as between locks in a canal; an arm of the sea extending up into the land. "The river's wooded reach." Tennyson. The coast . . . is very full of creeks and reaches. Holland. 5. An article to obtain an advantage. The Duke of Parma had particular reaches and ends of his own underhand to cross the design. Bacon. 6. The pole or rod which connects the hind axle with the forward bolster of a wagon. REACHABLE Reach"a*ble, a. Defn: Being within reach. REACHER Reach"er, n. 1. One who reaches. 2. An exaggeration. [Obs.] Fuller. REACHLESS Reach"less, a. Defn: Being beyond reach; lofty. Unto a reachless pitch of praises hight. Bp. Hall. REACT Re*act", v. t. Defn: To act or perform a second time; to do over again; as, to react a play; the same scenes were reacted at Rome. REACT Re*act", v. i. 1. To return an impulse or impression; to resist the action of another body by an opposite force; as, every body reacts on the body that impels it from its natural state. 2. To act upon each other; to exercise a reciprocal or a reverse effect, as two or more chemical agents; to act in opposition. REACTANCE Re*act"ance, n. [React + -ance.] (Elec.) Defn: The influence of a coil of wire upon an alternating current passing through it, tending to choke or diminish the current, or the similar influence of a condenser; inductive resistance. Reactance is measured in ohms. The reactance of a circuit is equal to the component of the impressed electro-motive force at right angles to the current divided by the current, that is, the component of the impedance due to the self-inductance or capacity of the circuit. REACTANCE COIL Reactance coil (Elec.) Defn: A choking coil. REACTION Re*ac"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. réaction.] 1. Any action in resisting other action or force; counter tendency; movement in a contrary direction; reverse action. 2. (Chem.) Defn: The mutual or reciprocal action of chemical agents upon each other, or the action upon such chemical agents of some form of energy, as heat, light, or electricity, resulting in a chemical change in one or more of these agents, with the production of new compounds or the manifestation of distinctive characters. See Blowpipe reaction, Flame reaction, under Blowpipe, and Flame. 3. (Med.) Defn: An action included by vital resistance to some other action; depression or exhaustion of vital force consequent on overexertion or overstimulation; heightened activity and overaction succeeding depression or shock. 4. (Mech.) Defn: The force which a body subjected to the action of a force from another body exerts upon the latter body in the opposite direction. Reaction is always equal and opposite to action, that is to say, the actions of two bodies upon each other are always equal and in opposite directions. Sir I. Newton (3d Law of Motion). 5. (Politics) Defn: Backward tendency or movement after revolution, reform, or great progress in any direction. The new king had, at the very moment at which his fame and fortune reached the highest point, predicted the coming reaction. Macaulay. Reaction time (Physiol.), in nerve physiology, the interval between the application of a stimulus to an end organ of sense and the reaction or resulting movement; -- called also physiological time. -- Reaction wheel (Mech.), a water wheel driven by the reaction of water, usually one in which the water, entering it centrally, escapes at its periphery in a direction opposed to that of its motion by orifices at right angles, or inclined, to its radii. REACTIONARY Re*ac"tion*a*ry, a. Defn: Being, causing, or favoring reaction; as, reactionary movements. REACTIONARY Re*ac"tion*a*ry, n.; pl. Reactionaries (. Defn: One who favors reaction, or seeks to undo political progress or revolution. REACTIONIST Re*ac"tion*ist, n. Defn: A reactionary. C. Kingsley. REACTIVE Re*act`ive, a. Etym: [Cf. F. réactif.] Defn: Having power to react; tending to reaction; of the nature of reaction. -- Re*act"ive*ly, adv. -- Re*act"ive*ness, n. REACTOR Re*act"or, n. (Elec.) Defn: A choking coil. READ Read, n. Defn: Rennet. See 3d Reed. [Prov. Eng.] READ Read, v. t.