[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

Syn. -- To jade; tire; fatigue; fag. See Jade. WEARY Wea"ry, v. i. Defn: To grow tired; to become exhausted or impatient; as, to weary of an undertaking. WEASAND Wea"sand, n. Etym: [OE. wesand, AS. wasend; akin to OFries. wasende, wasande; cf. OHG. weisunt.] Defn: The windpipe; -- called also, formerly, wesil. [Formerly, written also, wesand, and wezand.] Cut his weasand with thy knife. Shak. WEASEL Wea"sel, n. Etym: [OE. wesele, AS. wesle; akin to D. wezel, G. wiesel, OHG. wisala, Icel. hreyivisla, Dan. väsel, Sw. vessla; of uncertain origin; cf. Gr. (Zoöl.) Defn: Any one of various species of small carnivores belonging to the genus Putorius, as the ermine and ferret. They have a slender, elongated body, and are noted for the quickness of their movements and for their bloodthirsty habit in destroying poultry, rats, etc. The ermine and some other species are brown in summer, and turn white in winter; others are brown at all seasons. Malacca weasel, the rasse. -- Weasel coot, a female or young male of the smew; -- so called from the resemblance of the head to that of a weasel. Called also weasel duck. -- Weasel lemur, a short-tailed lemur (Lepilemur mustelinus). It is reddish brown above, grayish brown below, with the throat white. WEASEL-FACED Wea"sel-faced`, a. Defn: Having a thin, sharp face, like a weasel. WEASER Wea"ser, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: The American merganser; -- called also weaser sheldrake. [Local, U. S.] WEASINESS Wea"si*ness, n. Defn: Quality or state of being weasy; full feeding; sensual indulgence. [Obs.] Joye. WEASY Wea"sy, a. Etym: [Cf. Weasand.] Defn: Given to sensual indulgence; gluttonous. [Obs.] Joye. WEATHER Weath"er, n. Etym: [OE. weder, AS. weder; akin to OS. wedar, OFries. weder, D. weder, weêr, G. wetter, OHG. wetar, Icel. veedhr, Dan. veir, Sw. väder wind, air, weather, and perhaps to OSlav. vedro fair weather; or perhaps to Lith. vetra storm, Russ. vieter', vietr', wind, and E. wind. Cf. Wither.] 1. The state of the air or atmosphere with respect to heat or cold, wetness or dryness, calm or storm, clearness or cloudiness, or any other meteorological phenomena; meteorological condition of the atmosphere; as, warm weather; cold weather; wet weather; dry weather, etc. Not amiss to cool a man's stomach this hot weather. Shak. Fair weather cometh out of the north. Job xxxvii. 22. 2. Vicissitude of season; meteorological change; alternation of the state of the air. Bacon. 3. Storm; tempest. What gusts of weather from that gathering cloud My thoughts presage! Dryden. 4. A light rain; a shower. [Obs.] Wyclif. Stress of weather, violent winds; force of tempests. -- To make fair weather, to flatter; to give flattering representations. [R.] -- To make good, or bad, weather (Naut.), to endure a gale well or ill; -- said of a vessel. Shak. -- Under the weather, ill; also, financially embarrassed. [Colloq. U. S.] Bartlett. -- Weather box. Same as Weather house, below. Thackeray. -- Weather breeder, a fine day which is supposed to presage foul weather. -- Weather bureau, a popular name for the signal service. See Signal service, under Signal, a. [U.S.] -- Weather cloth (Naut.), a long piece of canvas of tarpaulin used to preserve the hammocks from injury by the weather when stowed in the nettings. -- Weather door. (Mining) See Trapdoor, 2. -- Weather gall. Same as Water gall, 2. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. -- Weather house, a mechanical contrivance in the form of a house, which indicates changes in atmospheric conditions by the appearance or retirement of toy images. Peace to the artist whose ingenious thought Devised the weather house, that useful toy! Cowper. -- Weather molding, or Weather moulding (Arch.), a canopy or cornice over a door or a window, to throw off the rain. -- Weather of a windmill sail, the obliquity of the sail, or the angle which it makes with its plane of revolution. -- Weather report, a daily report of meteorological observations, and of probable changes in the weather; esp., one published by government authority. -- Weather spy, a stargazer; one who foretells the weather. [R.] Donne. -- Weather strip (Arch.), a strip of wood, rubber, or other material, applied to an outer door or window so as to cover the joint made by it with the sill, casings, or threshold, in order to exclude rain, snow, cold air, etc. WEATHER Weath"er, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Weathered; p. pr. & vb. n. Weathering.] 1. To expose to the air; to air; to season by exposure to air. [An eagle] soaring through his wide empire of the air To weather his broad sails. Spenser. This gear lacks weathering. Latimer. 2. Hence, to sustain the trying effect of; to bear up against and overcome; to sustain; to endure; to resist; as, to weather the storm. For I can weather the roughest gale. Longfellow. You will weather the difficulties yet. F. W. Robertson. 3. (Naut.) Defn: To sail or pass to the windward of; as, to weather a cape; to weather another ship. 4. (Falconry) Defn: To place (a hawk) unhooded in the open air. Encyc. Brit. To weather a point. (a) (Naut.) To pass a point of land, leaving it on the lee side. (b) Hence, to gain or accomplish anything against opposition. -- To weather out, to encounter successfully, though with difficulty; as, to weather out a storm. WEATHER Weath"er, v. i. Defn: To undergo or endure the action of the atmosphere; to suffer meteorological influences; sometimes, to wear away, or alter, under atmospheric influences; to suffer waste by weather. The organisms . . . seem indestructible, while the hard matrix in which they are imbedded has weathered from around them. H. Miller. WEATHER Weath"er, a. (Naut.) Defn: Being toward the wind, or windward -- opposed to lee; as, weather bow, weather braces, weather gauge, weather lifts, weather quarter, weather shrouds, etc. Weather gauge. (a) (Naut.) The position of a ship to the windward of another. (b) Fig.: A position of advantage or superiority; advantage in position. To veer, and tack, and steer a cause Against the weather gauge of laws. Hudibras. -- Weather helm (Naut.), a tendency on the part of a sailing vessel to come up into the wind, rendering it necessary to put the helm up, that is, toward the weather side. -- Weather shore (Naut.), the shore to the windward of a ship. Totten. -- Weather tide (Naut.), the tide which sets against the lee side of a ship, impelling her to the windward. Mar. Dict. WEATHER-BEATEN Weath"er-beat`en, a. Defn: Beaten or harassed by the weather; worn by exposure to the weather, especially to severe weather. Shak. WEATHER-BIT Weath"er-bit`, n. (Naut.) Defn: A turn of the cable about the end of the windlass, without the bits. WEATHERBIT Weath"er*bit`, v. t. (Naut.) Defn: To take another turn with, as a cable around a windlass. Totten. WEATHER-BITTEN Weath"er-bit`ten, a. Defn: Eaten into, defaced, or worn, by exposure to the weather. Coleridge. WEATHERBOARD Weath"er*board`, n. 1. (Naut.) (a) That side of a vessel which is toward the wind; the windward side. (b) A piece of plank placed in a porthole, or other opening, to keep out water. 2. (a) (Arch.) A board extending from the ridge to the eaves along the slope of the gable, and forming a close junction between the shingling of a roof and the side of the building beneath. (b) A clapboard or feather-edged board used in weatherboarding. WEATHER-BOARD Weath"er-board`, v. t. (Arch.) Defn: To nail boards upon so as to lap one over another, in order to exclude rain, snow, etc. Gwilt. WEATHERBOARDING Weath"er*board`ing, n. (Arch.) (a) The covering or siding of a building, formed of boards lapping over one another, to exclude rain, snow, etc. (b) Boards adapted or intended for such use. WEATHER-BOUND Weath"er-bound`, a. Defn: Kept in port or at anchor by storms; delayed by bad weather; as, a weather-bound vessel. WEATHERCOCK Weath"er*cock`, n. 1. A vane, or weather vane; -- so called because originally often in the figure of a cock, turning on the top of a spire with the wind, and showing its direction. "As a wedercok that turneth his face with every wind." Chaucer. Noisy weathercocks rattled and sang of mutation. Longfellow. 2. Hence, any thing or person that turns easily and frequently; one who veers with every change of current opinion; a fickle, inconstant person. WEATHERCOCK Weath"er*cock`, v. t. Defn: To supply with a weathercock; to serve as a weathercock for. Whose blazing wyvern weathercock the spire. Tennyson. WEATHER-DRIVEN Weath"er-driv`en, a. Defn: Driven by winds or storms; forced by stress of weather. Carew. WEATHERED Weath"ered, a. 1. (Arch.) Defn: Made sloping, so as to throw off water; as, a weathered cornice or window sill. 2. (Geol.) Defn: Having the surface altered in color, texture, or composition, or the edges rounded off by exposure to the elements. WEATHER-FEND Weath"er-fend`, v. t. Defn: To defend from the weather; to shelter. Shak. [We] barked the white spruce to weather-fend the roof. Emerson. WEATHERGLASS Weath"er*glass`, n. Defn: An instrument to