[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

where stock is bought at 100 and the broker is directed to sell if the market price drops to 98. STOP-OVER Stop"-o`ver, a. Defn: Permitting one to stop over; as, a stop-over check or ticket. See To stop over, under Stop, v. i. [Railroad Cant, U.S.] STOPPAGE Stop"page, n. Defn: The act of stopping, or arresting progress, motion, or action; also, the state of being stopped; as, the stoppage of the circulation of the blood; the stoppage of commerce. STOPPED Stopped, a. (Phonetics) Defn: Made by complete closure of the mouth organs; shut; -- said of certain consonants (p, b, t, d, etc.). H. Sweet. STOPPER Stop"per, n. 1. One who stops, closes, shuts, or hinders; that which stops or obstructs; that which closes or fills a vent or hole in a vessel. 2. (Naut.) Defn: A short piece of rope having a knot at one or both ends, with a lanyard under the knot, -- used to secure something. Totten. 3. (Bot.) Defn: A name to several trees of the genus Eugenia, found in Florida and the West Indies; as, the red stopper. See Eugenia. C. S. Sargent. Ring stopper (Naut.), a short rope or chain passing through the anchor ring, to secure the anchor to the cathead. -- Stopper bolt (Naut.), a large ringbolt in a ship's deck, to which the deck stoppers are hooked. STOPPER Stop"per, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Stoppered; p. pr. & vb. n. Stoppering.] Defn: To close or secure with a stopper. STOPPING Stop"ping, n. 1. Material for filling a cavity. 2. (Mining) Defn: A partition or door to direct or prevent a current of air. 3. (Far.) Defn: A pad or poultice of dung or other material applied to a horse's hoof to keep it moist. Youatt. STOPPING-OUT Stop"ping-out`, n. Defn: A method adopted in etching, to keep the acid from those parts which are already sufficiently corroded, by applying varnish or other covering matter with a brush, but allowing the acid to act on the other parts. STOPPLE Stop"ple, n. Etym: [Cf. G. stöpfel, stöpsel. See Stop, n. & v. t.] Defn: That which stops or closes the mouth of a vessel; a stopper; as, a glass stopple; a cork stopple. STOPPLE Stop"ple, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Stoppled; p. pr. & vb. n. Stoppling.] Defn: To close the mouth of anything with a stopple, or as with a stopple. Cowper. STOPSHIP Stop"ship`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: A remora. It was fabled to stop ships by attaching itself to them. Sylvester. STOR Stor, a. Defn: See Stoor. [Obs.] Chaucer. STORAGE Stor"age, n. 1. The act of depositing in a store or warehouse for safe keeping; also, the safe keeping of goods in a warehouse. 2. Space for the safe keeping of goods. 3. The price changed for keeping goods in a store. Storage battery. (Physics) See the Note under Battery. STORAX Sto"rax, n. Etym: [L. storax, styrax, Gr. Styrax.] Defn: Any one of a number of similar complex resins obtained from the bark of several trees and shrubs of the Styrax family. The most common of these is liquid storax, a brown or gray semifluid substance of an agreeable aromatic odor and balsamic taste, sometimes used in perfumery, and in medicine as an expectorant. Note: A yellow aromatic honeylike substance, resembling, and often confounded with, storax, is obtained from the American sweet gum tree (Liquidambar styraciflua), and is much used as a chewing gum, called sweet gum, and liquid storax. Cf. Liquidambar. STORE Store, n. Etym: [OE. stor, stoor, OF. estor, provisions, supplies, fr. estorer to store. See Store, v. t.] 1. That which is accumulated, or massed together; a source from which supplies may be drawn; hence, an abundance; a great quantity, or a great number. The ships are fraught with store of victuals. Bacon. With store of ladies, whose bright eyes Rain influence, and give the prize. Milton. 2. A place of deposit for goods, esp. for large quantities; a storehouse; a warehouse; a magazine. 3. Any place where goods are sold, whether by wholesale or retail; a shop. [U.S. & British Colonies] 4. pl. Defn: Articles, especially of food, accumulated for some specific object; supplies, as of provisions, arms, ammunition, and the like; as, the stores of an army, of a ship, of a family. His swine, his horse, his stoor, and his poultry. Chaucer. In store, in a state of accumulation; in keeping; hence, in a state of readiness. "I have better news in store for thee." Shak. -- Store clothes, clothing purchased at a shop or store; -- in distinction from that which is home-made. [Colloq. U.S.] -- Store pay, payment for goods or work in articles from a shop or store, instead of money. [U.S.] -- To set store by, to value greatly; to have a high appreciation of. -- To tell no store of, to make no account of; to consider of no importance. Syn. -- Fund; supply; abundance; plenty; accumulation; provision. -- Store, Shop. The English call the place where goods are sold (however large or splendid it may be) a shop, and confine the word store to its original meaning; viz., a warehouse, or place where goods are stored. In America the word store is applied to all places, except the smallest, where goods are sold. In some British colonies the word store is used as in the United States. In his needy shop a tortoise hung, An alligator stuffed, and other skins Of ill-shaped fishes; and about his shelves A beggarly account of empty boxes. Shak. Sulphurous and nitrous foam, . . . Concocted and adjusted, they reduced To blackest grain, and into store conveyed. Milton. STORE Store, a. Defn: Accumulated; hoarded. Bacon. STORE Store, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Stored; p. pr. & vb. n. Storing.] Etym: [OE. storen, OF. estorer to construct, restore, store, LL. staurare, for L. instaurare to renew, restore; in + staurare (in comp.) Cf. Instore, Instaurate, Restore, Story a floor.] 1. To collect as a reserved supply; to accumulate; to lay away. Dora stored what little she could save. Tennyson. 2. To furnish; to supply; to replenish; esp., to stock or furnish against a future time. Her mind with thousand virtues stored. Prior. Wise Plato said the world with men was stored. Denham. Having stored a pond of four acres with carps, tench, and other fish. Sir M. Hale. 3. To deposit in a store, warehouse, or other building, for preservation; to warehouse; as, to store goods. STORED Stored, a. Defn: Collected or accumulated as a reserve supply; as, stored electricity. It is charged with stored virtue. Bagehot. STOREHOUSE Store"house`, n. 1. A building for keeping goods of any kind, especially provisions; a magazine; a repository; a warehouse. Joseph opened all the storehouses, and sold unto Egyptians. Gen. xli. 56. The Scripture of God is a storehouse abounding with estimable treasures of wisdom and knowledge. Hooker. 2. A mass or quality laid up. [Obs.] Spenser. STOREKEEPER Store"keep`er, n. 1. A man in charge of stores or goods of any kind; as, a naval storekeeper. 2. One who keeps a "store;" a shopkeeper. See 1st Store, 3. [U. S.] STORER Stor"er, n. Defn: One who lays up or forms a store. STOREROOM Store"room`, n. Defn: Room in a storehouse or repository; a room in which articles are stored. STORESHIP Store"ship`, n. Defn: A vessel used to carry naval stores for a fleet, garrison, or the like. STOREY Sto"rey, n. Defn: See Story. STORGE Stor"ge, n. Etym: [NL., from Gr. Defn: Parental affection; the instinctive affection which animals have for their young. STORIAL Sto"ri*al, a. Defn: Historical. [Obs.] Chaucer. STORIED Sto"ried, a. Etym: [From Story.] 1. Told in a story. 2. Having a history; interesting from the stories which pertain to it; venerable from the associations of the past. Some greedy minion, or imperious wife, The trophied arches, storied halls, invade. Pope. Can storied urn, or animated bust, Back to its mansion call the fleeting breath Gray. 3. Having (such or so many) stories; -- chiefly in composition; as, a two-storied house. STORIER Sto"ri*er, n. Defn: A relater of stories; an historian. [Obs.] Bp. Peacock. STORIFY Sto"ri*fy, v. t. Etym: [Story + -fy.] Defn: To form or tell stories of; to narrate or describe in a story. [Obs.] STORK Stork, n. Etym: [AS. storc; akin to G. storch, OHG. storah, Icel. storkr, Dan. & Sw. stork, and perhaps to Gr. (Zoöl.) Defn: Any one of several species of large wading birds of the family Ciconidæ, having long legs and a long, pointed bill. They are found both in the Old World and in America, and belong to Ciconia and several allied genera. The European white stork (Ciconia alba) is the best known. It commonly makes its nests on the top of a building, a chimney, a church spire, or a pillar. The black stork (C. nigra) is native of Asia, Africa, and Europe. Black-necked stork, the East Indian jabiru. -- Hair-crested stork, the smaller adjutant