[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

turn, an act of kidness; a favor. -- Good will. (a) Benevolence; well wishing; kindly feeling. (b) (Law) The custom of any trade or business; the tendency or inclination of persons, old customers and others, to resort to an established place of business; the advantage accruing from tendency or inclination. The good will of a trade is nothing more than the probability that the old customers will resort to the old place. Lord Eldon. -- In good time. (a) Promptly; punctually; opportunely; not too soon nor too late. (b) (Mus.) Correctly; in proper time. -- To hold good, to remain true or valid; to be operative; to remain in force or effect; as, his promise holds good; the condition still holds good. -- To make good, to fulfill; to establish; to maintain; to supply (a defect or deficiency); to indemmify; to prove or verify (an accusation); to prove to be blameless; to clear; to vindicate. Each word made good and true. Shak. Of no power to make his wishes good. Shak. I . . . would by combat make her good. Shak. Convenient numbers to make good the city. Shak. -- To think good, to approve; to be pleased or satisfied with; to consider expedient or proper. If ye think good, give me my price; and if not, forbear. Zech. xi. 12. Note: Good, in the sense of wishing well, is much used in greeting and leave-taking; as, good day, good night, good evening, good morning, etc. GOOD Good, n. 1. That which possesses desirable qualities, promotes success, welfare, or happiness, is serviceable, fit, excellent, kind, benevolent, etc.; -- opposed to evil. There be many that say, Who will show us any good Ps. iv. 6. 2. Advancement of interest or happiness; welfare; prosperity; advantage; benefit; -- opposed to harm, etc. The good of the whole community can be promoted only by advancing the good of each of the members composing it. Jay. 3. pl. Defn: Wares; commodities; chattels; -- formerly used in the singular in a collective sense. In law, a comprehensive name for almost all personal property as distinguished from land or real property. Wharton. He hath made us spend much good. Chaucer. Thy lands and goods Are, by the laws of Venice, confiscate Unto the state of Venice. Shak. Dress goods, Dry goods, etc. See in the Vocabulary. -- Goods engine, a freight locomotive. [Eng.] -- Goods train, a freight train. [Eng.] -- Goods wagon, a freight car [Eng.] See the Note under Car, n., 2. GOOD Good, adv. Defn: Well, -- especially in the phrase as good, with a following as expressed or implied; equally well with as much advantage or as little harm as possible. As good almost kill a man as kill a good book. Milton. As good as, in effect; virtually; the same as. They who counsel ye to such a suppressing, do as good as bid ye suppress yourselves. Milton. GOOD Good, v. t. 1. To make good; to turn to good. [Obs.] 2. To manure; to improve. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. GOOD-BY; GOOD-BYE Good`-by", Good`-bye", n. or interj. Etym: [A contraction of God be with ye (God be wî ye, God bw' ye, God bwye).] Defn: Farewell; a form of address used at parting. See the last Note under By, prep. Shak. GOOD-DEN Good`-den", interj. Etym: [Corrupt. of good e'en, for good evening.] Defn: A form of salutation. [Obs.] Shak. GOOD-FELLOWSHIP Good`-fel"low*ship, n. Defn: Agreeable companionship; companionableness. GOODGEON Good"geon, n. (Naut.) Defn: Same as Gudgeon, 5. GOOD-HUMORED Good`-hu"mored, a. Defn: Having a cheerful spirit and demeanor; good-tempered. See Good- natured. GOOD-HUMOREDLY Good`-hu"mored*ly, adv. Defn: With a cheerful spirit; in a cheerful or good-tempered manner. GOODISH Good"ish, a. Defn: Rather good than the contrary; not actually bad; tolerable. Goodish pictures in rich frames. Walpole. GOODLESS Good"less, a. Defn: Having no goods. [Obs.] Chaucer. GOODLICH Good"lich, a. Defn: Goodly. [Obs.] Chaucer. GOODLINESS Good"li*ness, n. Etym: [From Goodly.] Defn: Beauty of form; grace; elegance; comeliness. Her goodliness was full of harmony to his eyes. Sir P. Sidney. GOOD-LOOKING Good"-look`ing, a. Defn: Handsome. GOODLY Good"ly, adv. Defn: Excellently. [Obs.] Spenser. GOODLY Good"ly, a. [Compar. Goodlier; superl. Goodliest.] Etym: [OE. godlich, AS. g. See Good, and Like.] 1. Pleasant; agreeable; desirable. We have many goodly days to see. Shak. 2. Of pleasing appearance or character; comely; graceful; as, a goodly person; goodly raiment, houses. The goodliest man of men since born. Milton. 3. Large; considerable; portly; as, a goodly number. Goodly and great he sails behind his link. Dryden. GOODLYHEAD; GOODLYHOOD Good"ly*head, Good"ly*hood n. Defn: Goodness; grace; goodliness. [Obs.] Spenser. GOODMAN Good"man, n. Etym: [Good + man] 1. A familiar appellation of civility, equivalent to "My friend", "Good sir", "Mister;" -- sometimes used ironically. [Obs.] With you, goodman boy, an you please. Shak. 2. A husband; the master of a house or family; -- often used in speaking familiarly. [Archaic] Chaucer. Say ye to the goodman of the house, . . . Where is the guest-chamber Mark xiv. 14. Note: In the early colonial records of New England, the term goodman is frequently used as a title of designation, sometimes in a respectful manner, to denote a person whose first name was not known, or when it was not desired to use that name; in this use it was nearly equivalent to Mr. This use was doubtless brought with the first settlers from England. GOOD-NATURED Good`-na"tured, a. Defn: Naturally mild in temper; not easily provoked. Syn. -- Good-natured, Good-tempered, Good-humored. Good-natured denotes a disposition to please and be pleased. Good-tempered denotes a habit of mind which is not easily ruffied by provocations or other disturbing influences. Good-humored is applied to a spirit full of ease and cheerfulness, as displayed in one's outward deportment and in social intercourse. A good-natured man recommends himself to all by the spirit which governs him. A good-humored man recommends himself particularly as a companion. A good-tempered man is rarely betrayed into anything which can disturb the serenity of the social circle. GOOD-NATUREDLY Good`-na"tured*ly, adv. Defn: With maldness of temper. GOODNESS Good"ness, n. Etym: [AS. g.] Defn: The quality of being good in any of its various senses; excellence; virtue; kindness; benevolence; as, the goodness of timber, of a soil, of food; goodness of character, of disposition, of conduct, etc. GOOD NOW Good" now". Defn: An exclamation of wonder, surprise, or entreaty. [Obs.] Shak. GOODS Goods, n. pl. Defn: See Good, n., 3. GOODSHIP Good"ship, n. Defn: Favor; grace. [Obs.] Gower. GOOD-TEMPERED Good`-tem"pered, a. Defn: Having a good temper; not easily vexed. See Good-natured. GOODWIFE Good"wife`, n. Defn: The mistress of a house. [Archaic] Robynson (More's Utopia). GOODY Good"y, n.; pl. Goodies (. 1. A bonbon, cake, or the like; -- usually in the pl. [Colloq.] 2. (Zoöl.) Defn: An American fish; the lafayette or spot. GOODY Good"y, n.; pl. Goodies. Etym: [Prob. contr. from goodwife.] Defn: Goodwife; -- a low term of civility or sport. GOODY-GOODY Good"y-good`y, a. Defn: Mawkishly or weakly good; exhibiting goodness with silliness. [Colloq.] GOODYSHIP Good"y*ship, n. Defn: The state or quality of a goody or goodwife [Jocose] Hudibraus. GOOROO; GURU Goo*roo", Gu*ru" (, n. Etym: [Hind. gur a spiritual parent or teacher, Skr. guru heavy, noble, venerable, teacher. Cf. Grief.] Defn: A spiritual teacher, guide, or confessor amoung the Hindoos. Malcom. GOOSANDER Goos"an`der, n. Etym: [OE. gossander, a tautological word formed fr. goose + gander. Cf. Merganser.] (Zoöl.) Defn: A species of merganser (M. merganser) of Northern Europe and America; -- called also merganser, dundiver, sawbill, sawneb, shelduck, and sheldrake. See Merganser. GOOSE Goose, n.; pl. Geese. Etym: [OE. gos, AS. g, pl. g; akin to D. & G. gans, Icel. gas, Dan. gaas, Sw. g, Russ. guse. OIr. geiss, L. anser, for hanser, Gr. hamsa. sq. root233. Cf. Gander, Gannet, Ganza, Gosling.] (Zoöl.) 1. Any large web-footen bird of the subfamily Anserinæ, and belonging to Anser, Branta, Chen, and several allied genera. See Anseres. Note: The common domestic goose is believed to have been derived from the European graylag goose (Anser anser). The bean goose (A. segetum), the American wild or Canada goose (Branta Canadensis), and the bernicle goose (Branta leucopsis) are well known species. The American white or snow geese and the blue goose belong to the genus Chen. See Bernicle, Emperor goose, under Emperor, Snow goose, Wild goose, Brant. 2. Any large bird of other related families, resembling the common goose. Note: The Egyptian or fox goose (Alopochen Ægyptiaca) and the African spur-winged geese (Plectropterus) belong to the family Plectropteridæ. The Australian semipalmated goose (Anseranas semipalmata) and Cape Barren goose (Cereopsis Novæ-Hollandiæ) are very different from northern geese, and each is made the type of a distinct family. Both are domesticated in Australia. 3. A tailor's smoothing iron, so called from its handle, which resembles the neck of a goose. 4. A silly creature; a simpleton. 5. A game played with counters on a board divided into compartments, in some of which a goose was depicted. The pictures placed for ornament and use, The