[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

out which is next finer than the bran. The first remove above bran is shorts. Halliwell. 3. pl. Defn: Short, inferior hemp. 4. pl. Defn: Breeches; shortclothes. [Slang] Dickens. 5. (Phonetics) Defn: A short sound, syllable, or vowel. If we compare the nearest conventional shorts and longs in English, as in "bit" and "beat," "not" and "naught," we find that the short vowels are generally wide, the long narrow, besides being generally diphthongic as well. Hence, originally short vowels can be lengthened and yet kept quite distinct from the original longs. H. Sweet. In short, in few words; in brief; briefly. -- The long and the short, the whole; a brief summing up. -- The shorts (Stock Exchange), those who are unsupplied with stocks which they contracted to deliver. SHORT Short, adv. Defn: In a short manner; briefly; limitedly; abruptly; quickly; as, to stop short in one's course; to turn short. He was taken up very short, and adjudged corrigible for such presumptuous language. Howell. To sell short (Stock Exchange), to sell, for future delivery, what the party selling does not own, but hopes to buy at a lower rate. SHORT Short, v. t. Etym: [AS. sceortian.] Defn: To shorten. [Obs.] SHORT Short, v. i. Defn: To fail; to decrease. [Obs.] SHORTAGE Short"age, n. Defn: Amount or extent of deficiency, as determined by some requirement or standard; as, a shortage in money accounts. SHORT-BREATHED Short"-breathed`, a. 1. Having short-breath, or quick respiration. 2. Having short life. SHORTCAKE Short"cake`, n. Defn: An unsweetened breakfast cake shortened with butter or lard, rolled thin, and baked. SHORT CIRCUIT Short" cir"cuit. (Elec.) Defn: A circuit formed or closed by a conductor of relatively low resistance because shorter or of relatively great conductivity. SHORT-CIRCUIT Short"-cir`cuit, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Short-circuited; p. pr. & vb. n. Short-circuiting.] (Elec.) Defn: To join, as the electrodes of a battery or dynamo or any two points of a circuit, by a conductor of low resistance. SHORTCLOTHES Short"clothes`, n. Defn: Coverings for the legs of men or boys, consisting of trousers which reach only to the knees, -- worn with long stockings. SHORTCOMING Short"com`ing, n. Defn: The act of falling, or coming short; as: (a) The failure of a crop, or the like. (b) Neglect of, or failure in, performance of duty. SHORT-DATED Short"-dat`ed, a. Defn: Having little time to run from the date. "Thy short-dated life." Sandys. SHORTEN Short"en, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Shortened ; p. pr. & vb. n. Shortening.] Etym: [See Short, a.] 1. To make short or shorter in measure, extent, or time; as, to shorten distance; to shorten a road; to shorten days of calamity. 2. To reduce or diminish in amount, quantity, or extent; to lessen; to abridge; to curtail; to contract; as, to shorten work, an allowance of food, etc. Here, where the subject is so fruitful, I am shortened by my chain. Dryden. 3. To make deficient (as to); to deprive; -- with of. Spoiled of his nose, and shortened of his ears. Dryden. 4. To make short or friable, as pastry, with butter, lard, pot liquor, or the like. To shorten a rope (Naut.), to take in the slack of it. -- To shorten sail (Naut.), to reduce sail by taking it in. SHORTEN Short"en, v. i. Defn: To become short or shorter; as, the day shortens in northern latitudes from June to December; a metallic rod shortens by cold. SHORTENER Short"en*er, n. Defn: One who, or that which, shortens. SHORTENING Short"en*ing, n. 1. The act of making or becoming short or shorter. 2. (Cookery) Defn: That which renders pastry short or friable, as butter, lard, etc. SHORTHAND Short"hand`, n. Defn: A compendious and rapid method or writing by substituting characters, abbreviations, or symbols, for letters, words, etc.; short writing; stenography. See Illust. under Phonography. SHORT-HANDED Short`-hand"ed, a. Defn: Short of, or lacking the regular number of, servants or helpers. SHORTHEAD Short"head`, n. Defn: A sucking whale less than one year old; -- so called by sailors. SHORTHORN Short"horn`, a. Defn: One of a breed of large, heavy domestic cattle having short horns. The breed was developed in England. SHORT-JOINTED Short"-joint`ed, a. Defn: Having short intervals between the joints; -- said of a plant or an animal, especially of a horse whose pastern is too short. SHORT-LIVED Short"-lived`, a. Defn: Not living or lasting long; being of short continuance; as, a short-lived race of beings; short-lived pleasure; short-lived passion. SHORTLY Short"ly, adv. Etym: [AS. sceortlice.] 1. In a short or brief time or manner; soon; quickly. Chaucer. I shall grow jealous of you shortly. Shak. The armies came shortly in view of each other. Clarendon. 2. In few words; briefly; abruptly; curtly; as, to express ideas more shortly in verse than in prose. SHORTNESS Short"ness, n. Defn: The quality or state of being short; want of reach or extension; brevity; deficiency; as, the shortness of a journey; the shortness of the days in winter; the shortness of an essay; the shortness of the memory; a shortness of provisions; shortness of breath. SHORTSIGHTED Short"sight`ed, a. 1. Not able to see far; nearsighted; myopic. See Myopic, and Myopia. 2. Fig.: Not able to look far into futurity; unable to understand things deep; of limited intellect. 3. Having little regard for the future; heedless. -- Short"sight`ed*ly, adv. -- Short"sight`ed*ness, n. Cunning is a kind of shortsightedness. Addison. SHORT-SPOKEN Short"-spo`ken, a. Defn: Speaking in a quick or short manner; hence, gruff; curt. [Colloq.] SHORTSTOP Short"stop`, n. (Baseball) Defn: The player stationed in the field bewtween the second and third bases. SHORT-WAISTED Short"-waist`ed, a. Defn: Having a short waist. SHORT-WINDED Short"-wind`ed, a. Defn: Affected with shortness of breath; having a quick, difficult respiration, as dyspnoic and asthmatic persons. May. SHORTWING Short"wing`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: Any one of several species of small wrenlike Asiatic birds having short wings and a short tail. They belong to Brachypterix, Callene, and allied genera. SHORT-WITED Short"-wit`ed, a. Defn: Having little wit; not wise; having scanty intellect or judgment. SHORY Shor"y, a. Defn: Lying near the shore. [Obs.] SHOSHONES Sho*sho"nes, n. pl.; sing. Shoshone (. (Ethnol.) Defn: A linguistic family or stock of North American Indians, comprising many tribes, which extends from Montana and Idaho into Mexico. In a restricted sense the name is applied especially to the Snakes, the most northern of the tribes. SHOT Shot, Defn: imp. & p. p. Shoot. SHOT Shot, a. Defn: Woven in such a way as to produce an effect of variegation, of changeable tints, or of being figured; as, shot silks. See Shoot, v. t., 8. SHOT Shot, n. Etym: [AS. scot, sceot, fr. sceótan to shoot; akin to D. sschot, Icel. skot. sq. root159. See Scot a share, Shoot, v. t., and cf. Shot a shooting.] Defn: A share or proportion; a reckoning; a scot. Here no shots are where all shares be. Chapman. A man is never . . . welcome to a place till some certain shot be paid and the hostess say "Welcome." Shak. SHOT Shot, n.; pl. Shotor Shots. Etym: [OE. shot, schot, AS. gesceot a missile; akin to D. schot a shot, shoot, G. schuss, geschoss a missile, Icel. skot a throwing, a javelin, and E. shoot, v.t. sq. root159. See Shoot, and cf. Shot a share.] 1. The act of shooting; discharge of a firearm or other weapon which throws a missile. He caused twenty shot of his greatest cannon to be made at the king's army. Clarendon. 2. A missile weapon, particularly a ball or bullet; specifically, whatever is discharged as a projectile from firearms or cannon by the force of an explosive. Note: Shot used in war is of various kinds, classified according to the material of which it is composed, into lead, wrought-iron, and cast-iron; according to form, into spherical and oblong; according to structure and modes of operation, into solid, hollow, and case. See Bar shot, Chain shot, etc., under Bar, Chain, etc. 3. Small globular masses of lead, of various sizes, -- used chiefly for killing game; as, bird shot; buckshot. 4. The flight of a missile, or the distance which it is, or can be, thrown; as, the vessel was distant more than a cannon shot. 5. A marksman; one who practices shooting; as, an exellent shot. Shot belt, a belt having a pouch or compartment for carrying shot. -- Shot cartridge, a cartridge containing powder and small shot, forming a charge for a shotgun. -- Shot garland (Naut.), a wooden frame to contain shot, secured to the coamings and ledges round the hatchways of a ship. -- Shot gauge, an instrument for measuring the diameter of round shot. Totten. -- shot hole, a hole made by a shot or bullet discharged. -- Shot locker (Naut.), a strongly framed compartment in the hold of a vessel, for containing shot. -- Shot of a cable (Naut.), the splicing of two or more cables together, or the whole length of the cables thus united. -- Shot prop (Naut.), a