[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

bee martin. Several Southern and Western species of Tyrannus are also called king birds. 2. The king tody. See under King. KINGBOLT King"bolt`, n. Defn: A vertical iron bolt, by which the forward axle and wheels of a vehicle or the trucks of a railroad car are connected with the other parts. KING CHARLES SPANIEL King Charles span"iel. (Zoöl.) Defn: A variety of small pet dogs, having, drooping ears, a high, dome-shaped forehead, pug nose, large, prominent eyes, and long, wavy hair. The color is usually black and tan. KINGCRAFT King"craft, n. Defn: The craft of kings; the art of governing as a sovereign; royal policy. Prescott. KINGCUP King"cup`, n. (Bot.) Defn: The common buttercup. KINGDOM King"dom, n. Etym: [AS. cyningd. See 2d King, and -dom.] 1. The rank, quality, state, or attributes of a king; royal authority; sovereign power; rule; dominion; monarchy. Thy kingdom is an everlasting kingdom. Ps. cxiv. 13. When Jehoram was risen up to the kingdom of his father, he strengthened himself. 2 Chron. xxi. 4. 2. The territory or country subject to a king or queen; the dominion of a monarch; the sphere in which one is king or has control. Unto the kingdom of perpetual night. Shak. You're welcome, Most learned reverend sir, into our kingdom. Shak. 3. An extensive scientific division distinguished by leading or ruling characteristics; a principal division; a department; as, the mineral kingdom. "The animal and vegetable kingdoms." Locke. Animal kingdom. See under Animal. -- Kingdom of God. (a) The universe. (b) That spiritual realm of which God is the acknowledged sovereign. (c) The authority or dominion of God. -- Mineral kingdom. See under Mineral. -- United Kingdom. See under United. -- Vegetable kingdom. See under Vegetable. Syn. -- Realm; empire; dominion; monarchy; sovereignty; domain. KINGDOMED King"domed, a. Defn: Having a kingdom or the dignity of a king; like a kingdom. [R.] "Twixt his mental and his active parts, Kingdom'd Achilles in commotion rages And batters down himself. Shak. KINGFISH King"fish`, n. (Zoöl.) (a) An American marine food fish of the genus Menticirrus, especially M. saxatilis, or M. nebulosos, of the Atlantic coast; -- called also whiting, surf whiting, and barb. (b) The opah. (c) The common cero; also, the spotted cero. See Cero. (d) The queenfish. KINGFISHER King"fish`er, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: Any one of numerous species of birds constituting the family Alcedinidæ. Most of them feed upon fishes which they capture by diving and seizing then with the beak; others feed only upon reptiles, insects, etc. About one hundred and fifty species are known. They are found in nearly all parts of the world, but are particularly abundant in the East Indies. Note: The belted king-fisher of the United States (Ceryle alcyon) feeds upon fishes. It is slate-blue above, with a white belly and breast, and a broad white ring around the neck. A dark band crosses the breast. The common European species (Alcedo ispida), which is much smaller and brighter colored, is also a fisher. See Alcedo. The wood kingfishers (Halcyones), which inhabit forests, especially in Africa, feed largely upon insects, but also eat reptiles, snails, and small Crustacea, as well as fishes. The giant kingfisher of Australia feeds largely upon lizards and insects. See Laughing jackass, under Laughing. KINGHOOD King"hood, n. Defn: The state of being a king; the attributes of a king; kingship. Gower. KINGLESS King"less, a. Defn: Having no king. F. Lieber. KINGLET King"let, n. 1. A little king; a weak or insignificant king. Carlyle. 2. (Zoöl.) Defn: Any one of several species of small singing birds of the genus Regulus and family Sylviidæ. Note: The golden-crowned kinglet (Regulus satrapa), and the rubycrowned kinglet (R. calendula), are the most common American species. The common English kinglet (R. cristatus) is also called golden-crested wren, moonie, and marigold finch. The kinglets are often popularly called wrens, both in America and England. KINGLIHOOD King"li*hood, n. Defn: King-liness. Tennyson. KINGLINESS King"li*ness, n. Defn: The state or quality of being kingly. KINGLING King"ling, n. Defn: Same as Kinglet, 1. Churchill. KINGLY King"ly, a. [Compar. Kinglier; superl. Kingliest.] Defn: Belonging to, suitable to, or becoming, a king; characteristic of, resembling, a king; directed or administered by a king; monarchical; royal; sovereign; regal; august; noble; grand. "Kingly magnificence." Sir P. Sidney. "A kingly government." Swift. "The kingly couch." Shak. The kingliest kings are crowned with thorn. G. Massey. Leave kingly backs to cope with kingly cares. Cowper. Syn. -- Regal; royal; monarchical; imperial; august; sovereign; noble; splendid. -- Kingly, Regal. Kingly is Anglo-Saxon, and refers especially to the character of a king; regal is Latin, and now relates more to his office. The former is chiefly used of dispositions, feelings, and purposes which are kinglike; as, kingly sentiments; kingly condescension; " a kingly heart for enterprises." Sir P. Sidney. The latter is oftener applied to external state, pomp, etc.; as, regal state, regal title, etc. This distinction is not observed by our early writers, but is gaining ground. KINGLY King"ly, adv. Defn: In a kingly or kinglike manner. Shak. Low bowed the rest; he, kingly, did but nod. Pore. Note: Although this citation, one from Paradise Lost, and one from Shakespeare's ll4th Sonnet are given by lexicographers as examples of adverbial use, it is by no means clear that the word is not an adjective in each instance. KING-POST King"-post`, n. (Carp.) Defn: A member of a common form of truss, as a roof truss. It is strictly a tie, intended to prevent the sagging of the tiebeam in the middle. If there are struts, supporting the main rafters, they often bear upon the foot of the king-post. Called also crown-post. KING'S BENCH King's Bench. (Law) Defn: Formerly, the highest court of common law in England; -- so called because the king used to sit there in person. It consisted of a chief justice and four puisne, or junior, justices. During the reign of a queen it was called the Queen's Bench. Its jurisdiction was transferred by the judicature acts of 1873 and 1875 to the high court of justice created by that legislation. KINGSHIP King"ship, n. Defn: The state, office, or dignity of a king; royalty. Landor. KINGSTON; KINGSTONE King"ston, King"stone`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: The black angel fish. See Angel fish, under Angel. KINGSTON METAL King"ston met"al Defn: . An alloy of tin, copper, and mercury, sometimes used for the bearings and packings of machinery. McElrath. KINGSTON VALVE King"ston valve. (Marine Steam Engin.) Defn: A conical valve, opening outward, to close the mouth of a pipe which passes through the side of a vessel below the water line. KINGTRUSS King"truss`. (Carp.) Defn: A truss, framed with a king-post; -- used in roofs, bridges, etc. KINIC Ki"nic, a. Etym: [Cf. F.kinique.] (Chem.) Defn: See Quinic. KINIT Kin"it, n. [Gr. to move.] (Physics) Defn: A unit of force equal to the force which, acting for one second, will give a pound a velocity of one foot per second; -- proposed by J.D.Everett, an English physicist. KINK Kink, n. Etym: [D. kink a bend or turn, or Sw. kink.] 1. A twist or loop in a rope or thread, caused by a spontaneous doubling or winding upon itself; a close loop or curl; a doubling in a cord. 2. An unreasonable notion; a crotchet; a whim; a caprice. [Colloq.] Cozzens. KINK Kink, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Kinked; p. pr. & vb. n. Kinking.] Defn: To wind into a kink; to knot or twist spontaneously upon itself, as a rope or thread. KINK Kink, n. Etym: [Cf. Chincough, Kink-haust.] Defn: A fit of coughing; also, a convulsive fit of laughter. [Scot.] KINKAJOU Kin"ka*jou`, n. Etym: [F. kinkajou, quincajou, from the native American name.] (Zoöl.) Defn: A nocturnal carnivorous mammal (Cercoleptes caudivolvulus) of South America, about as large as a full-grown cat. It has a prehensile tail and lives in trees. It is the only representative of a distinct family (Cercoleptidæ) allied to the raccoons. Called also potto, and honey bear. KINKHAUST Kink"haust`, n. Etym: [Prov. E. kink to gasp (cf. Chin cough) + haust a cough (akin to E. wheeze).] Defn: Whooping cough. [Obs.or Prov. Eng.] KINKLE Kin"kle, n. Defn: Same as 3d Kink. KINKY Kink"y, a. 1. Full of kinks; liable to kink or curl; as, kinky hair. 2. Queer; eccentric; crotchety. [Colloq. U.S.] KINNIKINIC Kin`ni*ki*nic", n. Etym: [Indian, literally, a mixture.] Defn: Prepared leaves or bark of certain plants; -- used by the Indians of the Northwest for smoking, either mixed with tobacco or as a substitute for it. Also, a plant so used, as the osier cornel (Cornus stolonijra), and the bearberry (Arctostaphylus Uva-ursi). [Spelled also kinnickinnick and killikinick.] KINO Ki"no, n. Defn: The dark red dried juice of certain plants, used variously in tanning, in dyeing, and as an astringent in medicine. Note: The chief supply is from an East Indian leguminous tree, the Pterocarpus Marsupium. Other sources are the African Pterocarpus erinaceus, the tropical American sea grape (Coccoloba uvifera), and several Australian Eucalypti. See Botany bay kino, under