[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

paper; his hobnails marked the floor. 4. To keep account of; to enumerate and register; as, to mark the points in a game of billiards or cards. 5. To notice or observe; to give attention to; to take note of; to remark; to heed; to regard. "Mark the perfect man." Ps. xxxvii. 37. To mark out. (a) To designate, as by a mark; to select; as, the ringleaders were marked out for punishment. (b) To obliterate or cancel with a mark; as, to mark out an item in an account. -- To mark time (Mil.), to keep the time of a marching step by moving the legs alternately without advancing. Syn. -- To note; remark; notice; observe; regard; heed; show; evince; indicate; point out; betoken; denote; characterize; stamp; imprint; impress; brand. MARK Mark, v. i. Defn: To take particular notice; to observe critically; to note; to remark. Mark, I pray you, and see how this man seeketh maschief. 1 Kings xx. 7. MARKABLE Mark"a*ble, a. Defn: Remarkable. [Obs.] Sandys. MARKED Marked, a. Defn: Designated or distinguished by, or as by, a mark; hence; noticeable; conspicuous; as, a marked card; a marked coin; a marked instance. -- Mark"ed*ly, adv. J. S. Mill. A marked man, a man who is noted by a community, or by a part of it, as, for excellence or depravity; -- usually with an unfavorable suggestion. MARKEE Mar*kee", n. Defn: See Marquee. MARKER Mark"er, n. Defn: One who or that which marks. Specifically: (a) One who keeps account of a game played, as of billiards. (b) A counter used in card playing and other games. (c) (Mil.) The soldier who forms the pilot of a wheeling column, or marks the direction of an alignment. (d) An attachment to a sewing machine for marking a line on the fabric by creasing it. MARKET Mar"ket, n. Etym: [Akin to D. markt, OHG. markat, merkat, G. markt; all fr.L. mercatus trade, market place, fr. mercari, p. p. mercatus, to trade, traffic, merx, mercis, ware, merchandise, prob. akin to merere to deserve, gain, acquire: cf. F. marché. See Merit, and cf. Merchant, Mart.] 1. A meeting together of people, at a stated time and place, for the purpose of traffic (as in cattle, provisions, wares, etc.) by private purchase and sale, and not by auction; as, a market is held in the town every week. He is wit's peddler; and retails his wares At wakes, and wassails, meetings, markets, fairs. Shak. Three women and a goose make a market. Old Saying. 2. A public place (as an open space in a town) or a large building, where a market is held; a market place or market house; esp., a place where provisions are sold. There is at Jerusalem by the sheep market a pool. John v. 2. 3. An opportunity for selling anything; demand, as shown by price offered or obtainable; a town, region, or country, where the demand exists; as, to find a market for one's wares; there is no market for woolen cloths in that region; India is a market for English goods. There is a third thing to be considered: how a market can be created for produce, or how production can be limited to the capacities of the market. J. S. Mill. 4. Exchange, or purchase and sale; traffic; as, a dull market; a slow market. 5. The price for which a thing is sold in a market; market price. Hence: Value; worth. What is a man If his chief good and market of his time Be but to sleep and feed Shak. 6. (Eng. Law) Defn: The privelege granted to a town of having a public market. Note: Market is often used adjectively, or in forming compounds of obvious meaning; as, market basket, market day, market folk, market house, marketman, market place, market price, market rate, market wagon, market woman, and the like. Market beater, a swaggering bully; a noisy braggart. [Obs.] Chaucer. -- Market bell, a bell rung to give notice that buying and selling in a market may begin. [Eng.] Shak. -- Market cross, a cross set up where a market is held. Shak. -- Market garden, a garden in which vegetables are raised for market. -- Market gardening, the raising of vegetables for market. -- Market place, an open square or place in a town where markets or public sales are held. -- Market town, a town that has the privilege of a stated public market. MARKET Mar"ket, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Marketed; p. pr. & vb. n. Marketing.] Defn: To deal in a market; to buy or sell; to make bargains for provisions or goods. MARKET Mar"ket, v. t. Defn: To expose for sale in a market; to traffic in; to sell in a market, and in an extended sense, to sell in any manner; as, most of the farmes have marketed their crops. Industrious merchants meet, and market there The world's collected wealth. Southey. MARKETABLE Mar"ket*a*ble, a. 1. Fit to be offered for sale in a market; such as may be justly and lawfully sold; as, dacayemarketable. 2. Current in market; as, marketable value. 3. Wanted by purchasers; salable; as, furs are not marketable in that country. MARKETABLENESS Mar"ket*a*ble*ness, n. Defn: Quality of being marketable. MARKETER Mar"ket*er, n. Defn: One who attends a market to buy or sell; one who carries goods to market. MARKETING Mar"ket*ing, n. 1. The act of selling or of purchasing in, or as in, a market. 2. Articles in, or from, a market; supplies. MARKETSTEAD Mar"ket*stead, n. Etym: [Market + stead a place.] Defn: A market place. [Obs.] Drayton. MARKHOOR Mark"hoor`, n. Etym: [Per. mar-kh snake eater.] (Zoöl.) Defn: A large wild goat (Capra megaceros), having huge flattened spiral horns. It inhabits the mountains of Northern India and Cashmere. MARKING Mark"ing, n. Defn: The act of one who, or that which, marks; the mark or marks made; arrangement or disposition of marks or coloring; as, the marking of a bird's plumage. Marking ink, indelible ink, because used in marking linen. -- Marking nut (Bot.), the nut of the Semecarpus Anacardium, an East Indian tree. The shell of the nut yields a blackish resinous juice used for marking cotton cloth, and an oil prepared from it is used for rheumatism. MARKIS Mar"kis, n. Defn: A marquis. [Obs.] Chaucer. MARKISESSE Mar"kis*esse, n. Defn: A marchioness. [Obs.] Chaucer. MARKMAN Mark"man, n. Defn: A marksman. [Obs.] Shak. MARKSMAN Marks"man, n.; pl. Marksmen. Etym: [Earlier markman; mark + man.] 1. One skillful to hit a mark with a missile; one who shoots well. 2. (Law) Defn: One who makes his mark, instead of writing his name, in signing documents. Burrill. MARKSMANSHIP Marks"man*ship, n. Defn: Skill of a marksman. MARL Marl, v. t. Etym: [See Marline.] (Naut.) Defn: To cover, as part of a rope, with marline, marking a pecular hitch at each turn to prevent unwinding. Marling spike. (Naut.) See under Marline. MARL Marl, n. Etym: [OF. marle, F. marne, LL. margila, dim. of L. marga marl. Originally a Celtic word, according to Pliny, xvii. 7: "Quod genus terræ Galli et Britanni margam vocant." sq. root274.] Defn: A mixed earthy substance, consisting of carbonate of lime, clay, and sand, in very varivble proportions, and accordingly designated as calcareous, clayey, or sandy. See Greensand. MARL Marl, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Marled; p. pr. & vb. n. Marling.] Etym: [Cf. F. marner. See Marl, n.] Defn: To overspread or manure with marl; as, to marl a field. MARLACEOUS Mar*la"ceous, a. Defn: Resembling marl; partaking of the qualities of marl. MARLIN Mar"lin, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: The American great marbled godwit (Limosa fedoa). Applied also to the red-breasted godwit (Limosa hæmatica). Hook-billed marlin, a curlew. MARLINE Mar"line, n. Etym: [LG. marlien, marling, or D. marling, marlijn, fr. D. marren to tie, prob. akin to E. moor, v., and lijn line: cf.F. merlin. See Moor, v., Line.] (Naut.) Defn: A small line composed of two strands a little twisted, used for winding around ropes and cables, to prevent their being weakened by fretting. Marline spike, Marling spike (Naut.), an iron tool tapering to a point, used to separate the strands of a rope in splicing and in marling. It has an eye in the thick end to which a lanyard is attached. See Fid. [Written also marlin spike] -- Marline-spike bird. Etym: [The name alludes to the long middle tail feathers.] (Zoöl.) (a) A tropic bird. (b) A jager, or skua gull. MARLINE Mar"line, v. t. Etym: [F. merliner.] (Naut.) Defn: To wind marline around; as, to marline a rope. MARLITE Marl"ite, n. Etym: [Cf. F. marlite. See Marl, n.] (Min.) Defn: A variety of marl. MARLITIC Mar*lit"ic, a. Defn: Partaking of the qualites of marlite. MARLPIT Marl"pit`, n. Defn: Apit where marl is dug. MARLSTONE Marl"stone`, n. (Geol.) Defn: A sandy calcareous straum, containing, or impregnated with, iron, and lying between the upper and lower Lias of England. MARLY Marl"y, a. [Compar. Marlier; superl. Marliest.] Defn: Consisting or partaking of marl;