[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

principles of a party or cause; as, a plank in the national platform. [Cant] Plank road, or Plank way, a road surface formed of planks. [U.S.] -- To walk the plank, to walk along a plank laid across the bulwark of a ship, until one overbalances it and falls into the sea; -- a method of disposing of captives practiced by pirates. PLANK Plank, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Planked; p. pr. & vb. n. Planking.] 1. To cover or lay with planks; as, to plank a floor or a ship. "Planked with pine." Dryden. 2. To lay down, as on a plank or table; to stake or pay cash; as, to plank money in a wager. [Colloq. U.S.] 3. To harden, as hat bodies, by felting. 4. (Wooden Manuf.) Defn: To splice together the ends of slivers of wool, for subsequent drawing. Planked shad, shad split open, fastened to a plank, and roasted before a wood fire. PLANKING Plank"ing, n. 1. The act of laying planks; also, planks, collectively; a series of planks in place, as the wooden covering of the frame of a vessel. 2. The act of splicing slivers. See Plank, v. t., 4. PLANK-SHEER Plank"-sheer`, n. (Shipbuilding) Defn: The course of plank laid horizontally over the timberheads of a vessel's frame. PLANKTON Plank"ton (plank"ton), n. [NL., fr. Gr. plagto`n, neut. of plagto`s wandering, pla`zesqai to wander.] (Biol.) Defn: All the animals and plants, taken collectively, which live at or near the surface of salt or fresh waters. --Plank*ton"ic (#), a. PLANLESS Plan"less, a. Defn: Having no plan. PLANNER Plan"ner, n. Defn: One who plans; a projector. PLANO- Pla"no-. Defn: See Plani-. PLANOBLAST Plan"o*blast, n. Etym: [Gr. -blast.] (Zoöl.) Defn: Any free-swimming gonophore of a hydroid; a hydroid medusa. PLANO-CONCAVE Pla"no-con"cave, a. Etym: [Plano- + concave.] Defn: Plane or flat on one side, and concave on the other; as, a plano-concave lens. See Lens. PLANO-CONICAL Pla"no-con"ic*al, a. Etym: [Plano- + conical.] Defn: Plane or flat on one side, and conical on the other. Grew. PLANO-CONVEX Pla"no-con"vex, a. Etym: [Plano- + convex.] Defn: Plane or flat on one side, and convex on the other; as, a plano-convex lens. See Convex, and Lens. PLANOGAMETE Plan"o*ga*mete`, n. [Gr. wandering + E. gamete.] (Bot.) Defn: One of the motile ciliated gametes, or zoögametes, found in isogamous plants, as many green algæ (Chlorophyceæ). PLANO-HORIZONTAL Pla"no-hor`i*zon"tal, a. Etym: [Plano- + horizontal.] Defn: Having a level horizontal surface or position. Lee. PLANOMETER Pla*nom"e*ter, n. Etym: [Plano- + -meter. Cf. Planimeter.] Defn: An instrument for gauging or testing a plane surface. See Surface gauge, under Surface. PLANOMETRY Pla*nom"e*try, n. (Mech.) Defn: The art or process of producing or gauging a plane surface. PLANO-ORBICULAR Pla"no-or*bic"u*lar, a. Etym: [Plano- + orbicular.] Defn: Plane or flat on one side, and spherical on the other. PLANORBIS Pla*nor"bis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. L. planus flat + orbis a circle.] (Zoöl.) Defn: Any fresh-water air-breathing mollusk belonging to Planorbis and other allied genera, having shells of a discoidal form. PLANO-SUBULATE Pla"no-su"bu*late, a. Etym: [Plano- + subulate.] Defn: Smooth and awl-shaped. See Subulate. PLANT Plant, n. Etym: [AS. plante, L. planta.] 1. A vegetable; an organized living being, generally without feeling and voluntary motion, and having, when complete, a root, stem, and leaves, though consisting sometimes only of a single leafy expansion, or a series of cellules, or even a single cellule. Note: Plants are divided by their structure and methods of reproduction into two series, phænogamous or flowering plants, which have true flowers and seeds, and cryptogamous or flowerless plants, which have no flowers, and reproduce by minute one-celled spores. In both series are minute and simple forms and others of great size and complexity. As to their mode of nutrition, plants may be considered as self-supporting and dependent. Self-supporting plants always contain chlorophyll, and subsist on air and moisture and the matter dissolved in moisture, and as a general rule they excrete oxygen, and use the carbonic acid to combine with water and form the material for their tissues. Dependent plants comprise all fungi and many flowering plants of a parasitic or saprophytic nature. As a rule, they have no chlorophyll, and subsist mainly or wholly on matter already organized, thus utilizing carbon compounds already existing, and not excreting oxygen. But there are plants which are partly dependent and partly self-supporting. The movements of climbing plants, of some insectivorous plants, of leaves, stamens, or pistils in certain plants, and the ciliary motion of zoöspores, etc., may be considered a kind of voluntary motion. 2. A bush, or young tree; a sapling; hence, a stick or staff. "A plant of stubborn oak." Dryden. 3. The sole of the foot. [R.] "Knotty legs and plants of clay." B. Jonson. 4. (Com.) Defn: The whole machinery and apparatus employed in carrying on a trade or mechanical business; also, sometimes including real estate, and whatever represents investment of capital in the means of carrying on a business, but not including material worked upon or finished products; as, the plant of a foundry, a mill, or a railroad. 5. A plan; an artifice; a swindle; a trick. [Slang] It was n't a bad plant, that of mine, on Fikey. Dickens. 6. (Zoöl.) (a) An oyster which has been bedded, in distinction from one of natural growth. (b) A young oyster suitable for transplanting. [Local, U.S.] Plant bug (Zoöl.), any one of numerous hemipterous insects which injure the foliage of plants, as Lygus lineolaris, which damages wheat and trees. -- Plant cutter (Zoöl.), a South American passerine bird of the genus Phytotoma, family Phytotomidæ. It has a serrated bill with which it cuts off the young shoots and buds of plants, often doing much injury. -- Plant louse (Zoöl.), any small hemipterous insect which infests plants, especially those of the families Aphidæ and Psyllidæ; an aphid. PLANT Plant, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Planted; p. pr. & vb. n. Planting.] Etym: [AS. plantian, L. plantare. See Plant, n.] 1. To put in the ground and cover, as seed for growth; as, to plant maize. 2. To set in the ground for growth, as a young tree, or a vegetable with roots. Thou shalt not plant thee a grove of any trees. Deut. xvi. 21. 3. To furnish, or fit out, with plants; as, to plant a garden, an orchard, or a forest. 4. To engender; to generate; to set the germ of. It engenders choler, planteth anger. Shak. 5. To furnish with a fixed and organized population; to settle; to establish; as, to plant a colony. Planting of countries like planting of woods. Bacon. 6. To introduce and establish the principles or seeds of; as, to plant Christianity among the heathen. 7. To set firmly; to fix; to set and direct, or point; as, to plant cannon against a fort; to plant a standard in any place; to plant one's feet on solid ground; to plant one's fist in another's face. 8. To set up; to install; to instate. We will plant some other in the throne. Shak. PLANT Plant, v. i. Defn: To perform the act of planting. I have planted; Apollos watered. 1 Cor. iii. 6. PLANTABLE Plant"a*ble, a. Defn: Capable of being planted; fit to be planted. B. Edwards. PLANTAGE Plant"age, n. Defn: A word used once by Shakespeare to designate plants in general, or anything that is planted. As true as steel, as plantage to the moon. Shak. (Troil. iii. sc. 2). PLANTAIN Plan"tain, n. Etym: [Cf. F. plantain-arbre, plantanier, Sp. plántano, plátano; prob. same word as plane tree.] 1. (Bot.) Defn: A treelike perennial herb (Musa paradisiaca) of tropical regions, bearing immense leaves and large clusters of the fruits called plantains. See Musa. 2. The fruit of this plant. It is long and somewhat cylindrical, slightly curved, and, when ripe, soft, fleshy, and covered with a thick but tender yellowish skin. The plantain is a staple article of food in most tropical countries, especially when cooked. Plantain cutter, or Plantain eater (Zoöl.), any one of several large African birds of the genus Musophaga, or family Musophagidæ, especially Musophaga violacea. See Turaco. They are allied to the cuckoos. -- Plantain squirrel (Zoöl.), a Java squirrel (Sciurus plantani) which feeds upon plantains. -- Plantain tree (Bot.), the treelike herb Musa paradisiaca. See def. 1 (above). PLANTAIN Plan"tain, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. plantago. Cf. Plant.] (Bot.) Defn: Any plant of the genus Plantago, but especially the P. major, a low herb with broad spreading radical leaves, and slender spikes of minute flowers. It is a native of Europe, but now found near the abode of civilized man in nearly all parts of the world. Indian plantain. (Bot.) See under Indian. -- Mud plantain, a homely North American aquatic plant (Heteranthera reniformis), having broad, reniform leaves. -- Rattlesnake plantain, an orchidaceous plant (Goodyera pubescens), with the leaves blotched and spotted with white. -- Ribwort plantain. See Ribwort. -- Robin's plantain, the Erigeron bellidifolium, a common daisylike plant of North America. -- Water