[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

solitary; as, a private room or apartment; private prayer. Reason . . . then retires Into her private cell when nature rests. Milton. 3. Not invested with, or engaged in, public office or employment; as, a private citizen; private life. Shak. A private person may arrest a felon. Blackstone. 4. Not publicly known; not open; secret; as, a private negotiation; a private understanding. 5. Having secret or private knowledge; privy. [Obs.] Private act or statute, a statute exclusively for the settlement of private and personal interests, of which courts do not take judicial notice; -- opposed to a general law, which operates on the whole community. -- Private nuisance or wrong. See Nuisance. -- Private soldier. See Private, n., 5. -- Private way, a right of private passage over another man's ground. Kent. PRIVATE Pri"vate, n. 1. A secret message; a personal unofficial communication. [Obs.] Shak. 2. Personal interest; particular business.[Obs.] Nor must I be unmindful of my private. B. Jonson. 3. Privacy; retirement. [Archaic] "Go off; I discard you; let me enjoy my private." Shak. 4. One not invested with a public office. [Archaic] What have kings, that privates have not too Shak. 5. (Mil.) Defn: A common soldier; a soldier below the grade of a noncommissioned officer. Macaulay. 6. pl. Defn: The private parts; the genitals. In private, secretly; not openly or publicly. PRIVATEER Pri`va*teer" n. Etym: [From Private.] 1. An armed private vessel which bears the commission of the sovereign power to cruise against the enemy. See Letters of marque, under Marque. 2. The commander of a privateer. Kidd soon threw off the character of a privateer and became a pirate. Macaulay. PRIVATEER Pri`va*teer", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Privateered; p. pr. & vb. n. Privateering.] Defn: To cruise in a privateer. PRIVATEERING Pri`va*teer"ing, n. Defn: Cruising in a privateer. PRIVATEERSMAN Pri`va*teers"man, n.; pl. Privateersmen (. Defn: An officer or seaman of a privateer. PRIVATELY Pri"vate*ly, adv. 1. In a private manner; not openly; without the presence of others. 2. In a manner affecting an individual; personally not officially; as, he is not privately benefited. PRIVATENESS Pri"vate*ness, n. 1. Seclusion from company or society; retirement; privacy; secrecy. Bacon. 2. The state of one not invested with public office. PRIVATION Pri*va"tion n. Etym: [L. privatio: cf. F. privation. See Private.] 1. The act of depriving, or taking away; hence, the depriving of rank or office; degradation in rank; deprivation. Bacon. 2. The state of being deprived or destitute of something, especially of something required or desired; destitution; need; as, to undergo severe privations. 3. The condition of being absent; absence; negation. Evil will be known by consequence, as being only a privation, or absence, of good. South. Privation mere of light and absent day. Milton. PRIVATIVE Priv"a*tive a. Etym: [L. privativus: cf. F. privatif. See Private.] 1. Causing privation; depriving. 2. Consisting in the absence of something; not positive; negative. Privative blessings, blessings of immunity, safeguard, liberty, and integrity. Jer. Taylor. 3. (Gram.) Defn: Implying privation or negation; giving a negative force to a word; as, alpha privative; privative particles; -- applied to such prefixes and suffixes as a- (Gr. un-, non-, -less. PRIVATIVE Priv"a*tive, n. 1. That of which the essence is the absence of something. Blackness and darkness are indeed but privatives. Bacon. 2. (Logic) Defn: A term indicating the absence of any quality which might be naturally or rationally expected; -- called also privative term. 3. (Gram.) Defn: A privative prefix or suffix. See Privative, a., 3. PRIVATIVELY Priv"a*tive*ly, adv. Defn: In a privative manner; by the absence of something; negatively. [R.] Hammond. PRIVATIVENESS Priv"a*tive*ness, n. Defn: The state of being privative. PRIVET Priv"et, n. Etym: [Cf. Scot. privie, Prov. E. prim-print, primwort. Prob. for primet, and perh. named from being cut and trimmed. See, Prim, a., and cf. Prime to prune, Prim, n., Prie, n.] (Bot.) Defn: An ornamental European shrub (Ligustrum vulgare), much used in hedges; -- called also prim. Egyptian privet. See Lawsonia. -- Evergreen privet, a plant of the genus Rhamnus. See Alatern. -- Mock privet, any one of several evergreen shrubs of the genus Phillyrea. They are from the Mediterranean region, and have been much cultivated for hedges and for fancifully clipped shrubberies. PRIVILEGE Priv"i*lege, n. Etym: [F. privilège, L. privilegium an ordinance or law against or in favor of an individual; privus private + lex, legis, law. See Private, and Legal.] 1. A peculiar benefit, advantage, or favor; a right or immunity not enjoyed by others or by all; special enjoyment of a good, or exemption from an evil or burden; a prerogative; advantage; franchise. He pleads the legal privilege of a Roman. Kettlewell. The privilege birthright was a double portion. Locke. A people inheriting privileges, franchises, and liberties. Burke. 2. (Stockbroker's Cant) Defn: See Call, Put, Spread, etc. Breach of privilege. See under Breach. -- Question of privilege (Parliamentary practice), a question which concerns the security of a member of a legislative body in his special privileges as such. -- Water privilege, the advantage of having machinery driven by a stream, or a place affording such advantage. [ U. S.] -- Writ of privilege (Law), a writ to deliver a privileged person from custody when arrested in a civil suit. Blackstone. Syn. -- Prerogative; immunity; franchise; right; claim; liberty. -- Privilege, Prerogative. Privilege, among the Romans, was something conferred upon an individual by a private law; and hence, it denotes some peculiar benefit or advantage, some right or immunity, not enjoyed by the world at large. Prerogative, among the Romans, was the right of voting first; and, hence, it denotes a right of precedence, or of doing certain acts, or enjoying certain privileges, to the exclusion of others. It is the privilege of a member of Congress not to be called in question elsewhere for words uttered in debate. It is the prerogative of the president to nominate judges and executive officers. It is the privilege of a Christian child to be instructed in the true religion. It is the prerogative of a parent to govern and direct his children. PRIVILEGE Priv"i*lege, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Privileged; p. pr. & vb. n. Privileging.] Etym: [Cf. F. privilégier.] 1. To grant some particular right or exemption to; to invest with a peculiar right or immunity; to authorize; as, to privilege representatives from arrest. To privilege dishonor in thy name. Shak. 2. To bring or put into a condition of privilege or exemption from evil or danger; to exempt; to deliver. He took this place for sanctuary, And it shall privilege him from your hands. Shak. PRIVILEGED Priv"i*leged, a. Defn: Invested with a privilege; enjoying a peculiar right, advantage, or immunity. Privileged communication. (Law) (a) A communication which can not be disclosed without the consent of the party making it, -- such as those made by a client to his legal adviser, or by persons to their religious or medical advisers. (b) A communication which does not expose the party making it to indictment for libel, -- such as those made by persons communicating confidentially with a government, persons consulted confidentially as to the character of servants, etc. -- Privileged debts (Law), those to which a preference in payment is given out of the estate of a deceased person, or out of the estate of an insolvent. Wharton. Burrill. -- Privileged witnesses (Law) witnesses who are not obliged to testify as to certain things, as lawyers in relation to their dealings with their clients, and officers of state as to state secrets; also, by statute, clergymen and physicans are placed in the same category, so far as concerns information received by them professionally. PRIVILY Priv"i*ly, adv. Defn: In a privy manner; privately; secretly. Chaucer. 2 Pet. ii. 1. PRIVITY Priv"i*ty, n.; pl. Privities (-tîz). Etym: [From Privy, a.: cf. F. privauté extreme familiarity.] 1. Privacy; secrecy; confidence. Chaucer. I will unto you, in privity, discover . . . my purpose. Spenser. 2. Private knowledge; joint knowledge with another of a private concern; cognizance implying consent or concurrence. All the doors were laid open for his departure, not without the privity of the Prince of Orange. Swift. 3. A private matter or business; a secret. Chaucer. 4. pl. Defn: The genitals; the privates. 5. (Law) Defn: A connection, or bond of union, between parties, as to some particular transaction; mutual or successive relationship to the same rights of property. PRIVY Priv"y, a. Etym: [F. privé, fr. L. privatus. See Private.] 1. Of or pertaining to some person exclusively; assigned to private uses; not public; private; as, the privy purse. " Privee knights and squires." Chaucer. 2. Secret; clandestine. " A privee thief." Chaucer. 3. Appropriated to retirement; private; not open to the public. " Privy chambers." Ezek. xxi. 14. 4. Admitted to knowledge of a secret transaction; secretly cognizant; privately knowing. His wife also being privy to it. Acts v. 2. Myself am one made privy to the plot. Shak. Privy chamber, a private apartment in a royal