[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

To become lank; to make lank. [Obs.] Shak. G. Fletcher. LANKINESS Lank"i*ness, n. Defn: The condition or quality or being lanky. LANKLY Lank"ly, adv. Defn: In a lank manner. LANKNESS Lank"ness, n. Defn: The state or quality of being lank. LANKY Lank"y, a. Defn: Somewhat lank. Thackeray. The lanky Dinka, nearly seven feet in height. The Century. LANNER; LANNERET Lan"ner, n. f. Lan"ner*et, n. m. Etym: [F. lanier, OF. also, lasnier. Cf. Lanyard.] (Zoöl.) Defn: A long-tailed falcon (Falco lanarius), of Southern Europe, Asia, and Northern Africa, resembling the American prairie falcon. LANOLIN Lan"o*lin, n. Etym: [L. lana wool + oleum oil.] (Physiol. Chem.) Defn: A peculiar fatlike body, made up of cholesterin and certain fatty acids, found in feathers, hair, wool, and keratin tissues generally. Note: Under the same name, it is prepared from wool for commercial purposes, and forms an admirable basis for ointments, being readily absorbed by the skin. LANSEH Lan"seh, n. Defn: The small, whitish brown fruit of an East Indian tree (Lansium domesticum). It has a fleshy pulp, with an agreeable subacid taste. Balfour. LANSQUENET Lans"que*net, n. Etym: [F., fr. G. landsknecht a foot soldier, also a game of cards introduced by these foot soldiers; land country + knecht boy, servant. See Land, and Knight.] 1. A German foot soldier in foreign service in the 15th and 16th centuries; a soldier of fortune; -- a term used in France and Western Europe. 2. A game at cards, vulgarly called lambskinnet. [They play] their little game of lansquenet. Longfellow. LANT Lant, n. Defn: Urine. [Prov. Eng.] Nares. LANT Lant, n. Etym: [Cf. Lance.] (Zoöl.) Defn: Any one of several species of small, slender, marine fishes of the genus Ammedytes. The common European species (A. tobianus) and the American species (A. Americanus) live on sandy shores, buried in the sand, and are caught in large quantities for bait. Called also launce, and sand eel. LANT Lant, n. Defn: See Lanterloo. [Obs.] Halliwell. LANTANIUM; LANTANUM Lan*ta"ni*um, Lan"ta*num, n. (Chem.) Defn: See Lanthanum. LANTANURIC Lan`ta*nu"ric, a. Etym: [Formed by transposition of the letters of allantoin and -uric.] (Chem.) Defn: Pertaining to, or designating, a nitrogenous organic acid of the uric acid group, obtained by the decomposition of allantoin, and usually called allanturic acid. LANTERLOO Lan"ter*loo`, n. Defn: An old name of loo (a). LANTERN Lan"tern, n. Etym: [F. lanterne, L. lanterna, laterna, from Gr. Lamp.] 1. Something inclosing a light, and protecting it from wind, rain, etc. ; -- sometimes portable, as a closed vessel or case of horn, perforated tin, glass, oiled paper, or other material, having a lamp or candle within; sometimes fixed, as the glazed inclosure of a street light, or of a lighthouse light. 2. (Arch.) (a) An open structure of light material set upon a roof, to give light and air to the interior. (b) A cage or open chamber of rich architecture, open below into the building or tower which it crowns. (c) A smaller and secondary cupola crowning a larger one, for ornament, or to admit light; such as the lantern of the cupola of the Capitol at Washington, or that of the Florence cathedral. 3. (Mach.) Defn: A lantern pinion or trundle wheel. See Lantern pinion (below). 4. (Steam Engine) Defn: A kind of cage inserted in a stuffing box and surrounding a piston rod, to separate the packing into two parts and form a chamber between for the reception of steam, etc. ; -- called also lantern brass. 5. (Founding) Defn: A perforated barrel to form a core upon. 6. (Zoöl.) Defn: See Aristotle's lantern. Note: Fig. 1 represents a hand lantern; fig. 2, an arm lantern; fig. 3, a breast lantern; -- so named from the positions in which they are carried. Dark lantern, a lantern with a single opening, which may be closed so as to conceal the light; -- called also bull's-eye. -- Lantern fly, Lantern carrier (Zoöl.), any one of several species of large, handsome, hemipterous insects of the genera Laternaria, Fulgora, and allies, of the family Fulgoridæ. The largest species is Laternaria phosphorea of Brazil. The head of some species has been supposed to be phosphorescent. -- Lantern jaws, long, thin jaws; hence, a thin visage. -- Lantern pinion, Lantern wheel (Mach.), a kind of pinion or wheel having cylindrical bars or trundles, instead of teeth, inserted at their ends in two parallel disks or plates; -- so called as resembling a lantern in shape; -- called also wallower, or trundle. -- Lantern shell (Zoöl.), any translucent, marine, bivalve shell of the genus Anatina, and allied genera. -- Magic lantern, an optical instrument consisting of a case inclosing a light, and having suitable lenses in a lateral tube, for throwing upon a screen, in a darkened room or the like, greatly magnified pictures from slides placed in the focus of the outer lens. LANTERN Lan"tern, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Lanterned; p. pr. & vb. n. Lanterning.] Etym: [Cf. F. lanterner to hang at the lamp post, fr. lanterne. See Lantern.] Defn: To furnish with a lantern; as, to lantern a lighthouse. LANTERN-JAWED Lan"tern-jawed`, a. Defn: Having lantern jaws or long, thin jaws; as, a lantern-jawed person. LANTHANITE Lan"tha*nite, n. (Min.) Defn: Hydrous carbonate of lanthanum, found in tabular while crystals. LANTHANUM Lan"tha*num, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Chem.) Defn: A rare element of the group of the earth metals, allied to aluminium. It occurs in certain rare minerals, as cerite, gadolinite, orthite, etc., and was so named from the difficulty of separating it from cerium, didymium, and other rare elements with which it is usually associated. Atomic weight 138.5. Symbol La. [Formerly written also lanthanium.] LANTHOPINE Lan"tho*pine, n. Etym: [Gr. (Chem.) Defn: An alkaloid found in opium in small quantities, and extracted as a white crystalline substance. LANTHORN Lan"thorn, n. Defn: See Lantern. [Obs.] LANUGINOSE; LANUGINOUS La*nu"gi*nose`, La*nu"gi*nous, a. Etym: [L. lanuginosus, fr. lanugo, -ginis, woolly substance, down, fr. lana wool: cf. F. lanugineux.] Defn: Covered with down, or fine soft hair; downy. LANUGO La*nu"go, n. Etym: [See Lanuginose.] (Anat.) Defn: The soft woolly hair which covers most parts of the mammal fetus, and in man is shed before or soon after birth. LANYARD Lan"yard, n. Etym: [F.lanière thong, strap, OF. lasniere, fr. lasne strap, thong, L. lacinia lappet. flap, edge of a garment. Cf. Lanier.] [Written also laniard.] 1. (Naut.) Defn: A short piece of rope or line for fastening something in ships; as, the lanyards of the gun ports, of the buoy, and the like; esp., pieces passing through the dead-eyes, and used to extend shrouds, stays, etc. 2. (Mil.) Defn: A strong cord, about twelve feet long, with an iron hook at one end a handle at the other, used in firing cannon with a friction tube. LANYER Lan"yer, n. Defn: See Lanier. LAOCOON; LAOCOOEN La*oc"o*ön, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. 1. (Class. Myth.) Defn: A priest of Apollo, during the Trojan war. (See 2.) 2. (Sculp.) Defn: A marble group in the Vatican at Rome, representing the priest Laocoön, with his sons, infolded in the coils of two serpents, as described by Virgil. LAODICEAN La*od`i*ce"an, a. Defn: Of or pertaining to Laodicea, a city in Phrygia Major; like the Christians of Laodicea; lukewarm in religion. Rev. iii. 14-16. LAP Lap, n. Etym: [OE. lappe, AS. læppa; akin to D. lap patch, piece, G. lappen, OHG. lappa, Dan. lap, Sw. lapp.] 1. The loose part of a coat; the lower part of a garment that plays loosely; a skirt; an apron. Chaucer. 2. An edge; a border; a hem, as of cloth. Chaucer. If he cuts off but a lap of truth's garment, his heart smites him. Fuller. 3. The part of the clothing that lies on the knees or thighs when one sits down; that part of the person thus covered; figuratively, a place of rearing and fostering; as, to be reared in the lap of luxury. Men expect that happiness should drop into their laps. Tillotson. 4. That part of any substance or fixture which extends over, or lies upon, or by the side of, a part of another; as, the lap of a board; also, the measure of such extension over or upon another thing. Note: The lap of shingles or slates in roofing is the distance one course extends over the second course below, the distance over the course immediately below being called the cover. 5. (Steam Engine) Defn: The amount by which a slide valve at its half stroke overlaps a port in the seat, being equal to the distance the valve must move from its mid stroke position in order to begin to open the port. Used alone, lap refers to outside lap. See Outside lap (below). 6. The state or condition of being in part extended over or by the side of something else; or the extent of the overlapping; as, the second boat got a lap of half its length on the leader. 7. One circuit around a race track, esp. when