[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

West African long-tailed monkey (Cercopithecus callitrichus), very commonly tamed, and trained to perform tricks. It was introduced into the West Indies early in the last century, and has become very abundant there. -- Green salt of Magnus (Old Chem.), a dark green crystalline salt, consisting of ammonia united with certain chlorides of platinum. -- Green sand (Founding) molding sand used for a mold while slightly damp, and not dried before the cast is made. -- Green sea (Naut.), a wave that breaks in a solid mass on a vessel's deck. -- Green sickness (Med.), chlorosis. -- Green snake (Zoöl.), one of two harmless American snakes (Cyclophis vernalis, and C. æstivus). They are bright green in color. -- Green turtle (Zoöl.), an edible marine turtle. See Turtle. -- Green vitriol. (a) (Chem.) Sulphate of iron; a light green crystalline substance, very extensively used in the preparation of inks, dyes, mordants, etc. (b) (Min.) Same as copperas, melanterite and sulphate of iron. -- Green ware, articles of pottery molded and shaped, but not yet baked. -- Green woodpecker (Zoöl.), a common European woodpecker (Picus viridis); -- called also yaffle. GREEN Green (gren), n. 1. The color of growing plants; the color of the solar spectrum intermediate between the yellow and the blue. 2. A grassy plain or plat; a piece of ground covered with verdant herbage; as, the village green. O'er the smooth enameled green. Milton. 3. Fresh leaves or branches of trees or other plants; wreaths; -- usually in the plural. In that soft season when descending showers Call forth the greens, and wake the rising flowers. Pope. 4. pl. Leaves and stems of young plants, as spinach, beets, etc., which in their green state are boiled for food. 5. Any substance or pigment of a green color. Alkali green (Chem.), an alkali salt of a sulphonic acid derivative of a complex aniline dye, resembling emerald green; -- called also Helvetia green.-- Berlin green. (Chem.) See under Berlin. -- Brilliant green (Chem.), a complex aniline dye, resembling emerald green in composition. -- Brunswick green an oxychloride of copper. -- Chrome green. See under Chrome. -- Emerald green. (Chem.) (a) A complex basic derivative of aniline produced as a metallic, green crystalline substance, and used for dyeing silk, wool, and mordanted vegetable fiber a brilliant green; - - called also aldehyde green, acid green, malachite green, Victoria green, solid green, etc. It is usually found as a double chloride, with zinc chloride, or as an oxalate. (b) See Paris green (below). -- Gaignet's green (Chem.) a green pigment employed by the French artist, Adrian Gusgnet, and consisting essentially of a basic hydrate of chromium. -- Methyl green (Chem.), an artificial rosaniline dyestuff, obtained as a green substance having a brilliant yellow luster; -- called also light-green. -- Mineral green. See under Mineral. -- Mountain green. See Green earth, under Green, a. -- Paris green (Chem.), a poisonous green powder, consisting of a mixture of several double salts of the acetate and arsenite of copper. It has found very extensive use as a pigment for wall paper, artificial flowers, etc., but particularly as an exterminator of insects, as the potato bug; -- called also Schweinfurth green, imperial green, Vienna green, emerald qreen, and mitis green. -- Scheele's green (Chem.), a green pigment, consisting essentially of a hydrous arsenite of copper; -- called also Swedish green. It may enter into various pigments called parrot green, pickel green, Brunswick green, nereid green, or emerald green. GREEN Green, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Greened (great): p. pr. & vb. n. Greening.] Defn: To make green. Great spring before Greened all the year. Thomson. GREEN Green, v. i. Defn: To become or grow green. Tennyson. By greening slope and singing flood. Whittier. GREENBACK Green"back", n. Defn: One of the legal tender notes of the United States; -- first issued in 1862, and having the devices on the back printed with green ink, to prevent alterations and counterfeits. GREENBACKER Green"back"er, n. Defn: One of those who supported greenback or paper money, and opposed the resumption of specie payments. [Colloq. U. S.] GREENBONE Green"bone, n. Etym: [So named because the bones are green when boiled.] (Zoöl.) (a) Any garfish (Belone or Tylosurus). (b) The European eelpout. GREEN-BROOM Green"-broom`, n. (Bot.) Defn: A plant of the genus Genista (G. tinctoria); dyer's weed; -- called also greenweed. GREENCLOTH Green"cloth` (-klôth`; 115), n. Defn: A board or court of justice formerly held in the counting house of the British sovereign's household, composed of the lord steward and his officers, and having cognizance of matters of justice in the household, with power to correct offenders and keep the peace within the verge of the palace, which extends two hundred yards beyond the gatees. GREENERY Green"er*y, n. Defn: Green plants; verdure. A pretty little one-storied abode, so rural, so smothered in greenery. J. Ingelow. GREEN-EYED Green"-eyed, a. 1. Having green eyes. 2. Seeing everything through a medium which discolors or distorts. "Green-eyed jealousy." Shak. GREENFINCH Green"finch`, n. (Zoöl.) 1. A European finch (Ligurinus chloris); -- called also green bird, green linnet, green grosbeak, green olf, greeny, and peasweep. 2. The Texas sparrow (Embernagra rufivirgata), in which the general color is olive green, with four rufous stripes on the head. GREENFISH Green"fish`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: See Bluefish, and Pollock. GREENGAGE Green"gage`, n. (Bot.) Defn: A kind of plum of medium size, roundish shape, greenish flesh, and delicious flavor. It is called in France Reine Claude, after the queen of Francis I. See Gage. GREENGILL Green"gill`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: An oyster which has the gills tinged with a green pigment, said to be due to an abnormal condition of the blood. GREENGROCER Green"gro`cer, n. Defn: A retailer of vegetables or fruits in their fresh or green state. GREENHEAD Green"head`, n. (Zoöl.) (a) The mallard. (b) The striped bass. See Bass. GREENHEAD; GREENHOOD Green"head, Green"hood, n. Defn: A state of greenness; verdancy. Chaucer. GREENHORN Green"horn`, n. Defn: A raw, inexperienced person; one easily imposed upon. W. Irving. GREENHOUSE Green"house`, n. Defn: A house in which tender plants are cultivated and sheltered from the weather. GREENING Green"ing, n. Defn: A greenish apple, of several varieties, among which the Rhode Island greening is the best known for its fine-grained acid flesh and its excellent keeping quality. GREENISH Green"ish, a. Defn: Somewhat green; having a tinge of green; as, a greenish yellow. -- Green"ish*ness, n. GREENLANDER Green"land*er, n. Defn: A native of Greenland. GREEN-LEEK Green"-leek`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: An Australian parrakeet (Polytelis Barrabandi); -- called also the scarlet-breasted parrot. GREENLET Green"let, n. Defn: l. (Zoöl.) One of numerous species of small American singing birds, of the genus Vireo, as the solitary, or blue-headed (Vireo solitarius); the brotherly-love (V. Philadelphicus); the warbling greenlet (V. gilvus); the yellow-throated greenlet (V. flavifrons) and others. See Vireo. 2. (Zoöl,) Any species of Cyclorhis, a genus of tropical American birds allied to the tits. GREENLY Green"ly, adv. Defn: With a green color; newly; freshly, immaturely. -- a. Defn: Of a green color. [Obs.] GREENNESS Green"ness, n. Etym: [AS. grnnes. See Green.] 1. The quality of being green; viridity; verdancy; as, the greenness of grass, or of a meadow. 2. Freshness; vigor; newness. 3. Immaturity; unripeness; as, the greenness of fruit; inexperience; as, the greenness of youth. GREENOCKITE Green"ock*ite, n. Etym: [Named after Lord Greenock.] (Min.) Defn: Native cadmium sulphide, a mineral occurring in yellow hexagonal crystals, also as an earthy incrustation. GREENROOM Green"room` (gren"room`), n. Defn: The retiring room of actors and actresses in a theater. GREENSAND Green"sand` (-s, n. (Geol.) Defn: A variety of sandstone, usually imperfectly consolidated, consisting largely of glauconite, a silicate of iron and potash of a green color, mixed with sand and a trace of phosphate of lime. Note: Greensand is often called marl, because it is a useful fertilizer. The greensand beds of the American Cretaceous belong mostly to the Upper Cretaceous. GREENSHANK Green"shank`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: A European sandpiper or snipe (Totanus canescens); -- called also greater plover. GREEN-STALL Green"-stall`, n. Defn: A stall at which greens and fresh vegetables are exposed for sale. GREENSTONE Green"stone` (gren"ston`), n. Etym: [So called from a tinge of green in the color.] (Geol.) Defn: A name formerly applied rather loosely to certain dark-colored igneous rocks, including diorite, diabase, etc. GREENSWARD Green"sward` (-sward') n. Defn: Turf green with grass. GREENTH Greenth (grenth), n. Etym: [Cf. Growth.] Defn: The state or quality of being green; verdure. [R.] The greenth of summer. G. Eliot. GREENWEED Green"weed`, n. (Bot.) Defn: See Greenbroom. GREENWOOD Green"wood`, n. Defn: A forest as it appears is spring and summer. GREENWOOD Green"wood`, a. Defn: Pertaining to a greenwood; as, a greenwood shade. Dryden. GREET Greet, a. Defn: Great. [Obs.] Chaucer. GREET Greet, v. i. Etym: [OE. greten, AS. grtan, grlan; akin to Icel. grata, Sw. gita, Dan. grde, Goth. grctan; cf. Skr. hrd to sound, roar. sq. root50.] Defn: To weep; to cry; to lament. [Obs. or Scot.] [Written also greit.] Spenser. GREET Greet, n. Defn: Mourning. [Obs.] Spenser.