[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

-cipis. See Prince.] 1. Beginning; commencement. [Obs.] Doubting sad end of principle unsound. Spenser. 2. A source, or origin; that from which anything proceeds; fundamental substance or energy; primordial substance; ultimate element, or cause. The soul of man is an active principle. Tillotson. 3. An original faculty or endowment. Nature in your principles hath set [benignity]. Chaucer. Those active principles whose direct and ultimate object is the communication either of enjoyment or suffering. Stewart. 4. A fundamental truth; a comprehensive law or doctrine, from which others are derived, or on which others are founded; a general truth; an elementary proposition; a maxim; an axiom; a postulate. Therefore, leaving the principles of the doctrine of Christ, let us go on unto perfection. Heb. vi. 1. A good principle, not rightly understood, may prove as hurtful as a bad. Milton. 5. A settled rule of action; a governing law of conduct; an opinion or belief which exercises a directing influence on the life and behavior; a rule (usually, a right rule) of conduct consistently directing one's actions; as, a person of no principle. All kinds of dishonesty destroy our pretenses to an honest principle of mind. Law. 6. (Chem.) Defn: Any original inherent constituent which characterizes a substance, or gives it its essential properties, and which can usually be separated by analysis; -- applied especially to drugs, plant extracts, etc. Cathartine is the bitter, purgative principle of senna. Gregory. Bitter principle, Principle of contradiction, etc. See under Bitter, Contradiction, etc. PRINCIPLE Prin"ci*ple, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Principled; p. pr. & vb. n. Principling.] Defn: To equip with principles; to establish, or fix, in certain principles; to impress with any tenet, or rule of conduct, good or ill. Governors should be well principled. L'Estrange. Let an enthusiast be principled that he or his teacher is inspired. Locke. PRINCOCK; PRINCOX Prin"cock, Prin"cox, n. Etym: [Prim + cock.] Defn: A coxcomb; a pert boy. [Obs.] PRINK Prink, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Prinked; p. pr. & vb. n. Prinking.] Etym: [Probably a nasalized form of prick. See Prick, v. t., and cf. Prig, Prank.] Defn: To dress or adjust one's self for show; to prank. PRINK Prink, v. t. Defn: To prank or dress up; to deck fantastically. "And prink their hair with daisies." Cowper. PRINKER Prink"er, n. Defn: One who prinks. PRINPRIDDLE Prin"prid`dle, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: The longtailed titmouse. [Prov. Eng.] PRINT Print, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Printed; p. pr. & vb. n. Printing.] Etym: [Abbrev. fr. imprint. See Imprint, and Press to squeeze.] 1. To fix or impress, as a stamp, mark, character, idea, etc., into or upon something. A look will print a thought that never may remove. Surrey. Upon his breastplate he beholds a dint, Which in that field young Edward's sword did print. Sir John Beaumont. Perhaps some footsteps printed in the clay. Roscommon. 2. To stamp something in or upon; to make an impression or mark upon by pressure, or as by pressure. Forth on his fiery steed betimes he rode, That scarcely prints the turf on which he trod. Dryden. 3. Specifically: Defn: To strike off an impression or impressions of, from type, or from stereotype, electrotype, or engraved plates, or the like; in a wider sense, to do the typesetting, presswork, etc., of (a book or other publication); as, to print books, newspapers, pictures; to print an edition of a book. 4. To stamp or impress with colored figures or patterns; as, to print calico. 5. (Photog.) Defn: To take (a copy, a positive picture, etc.), from a negative, a transparent drawing, or the like, by the action of light upon a sensitized surface. Printed goods, textile fabrics printed in patterns, especially cotton cloths, or calicoes. PRINT Print, v. i. 1. To use or practice the art of typography; to take impressions of letters, figures, or electrotypes, engraved plates, or the like. 2. To publish a book or an article. From the moment he prints, he must except to hear no more truth. Pope. PRINT Print, n. Etym: [See Print, v., Imprint, n.] 1. A mark made by impression; a line, character, figure, or indentation, made by the pressure of one thing on another; as, the print of teeth or nails in flesh; the print of the foot in sand or snow. Where print of human feet was never seen. Dryden. 2. A stamp or die for molding or impressing an ornamental design upon an object; as, a butter print. 3. That which receives an impression, as from a stamp or mold; as, a print of butter. 4. Printed letters; the impression taken from type, as to excellence, form, size, etc.; as, small print; large print; this line is in print. 5. That which is produced by printing. Specifically: (a) An impression taken from anything, as from an engraved plate. "The prints which we see of antiquities." Dryden. (b) A printed publication, more especially a newspaper or other periodical. Addison. (c) A printed cloth; a fabric figured by stamping, especially calico or cotton cloth. (d) A photographic copy, or positive picture, on prepared paper, as from a negative, or from a drawing on transparent paper. 6. (Founding) Defn: A core print. See under Core. Blue print, a copy in white lines on a blue ground, of a drawing, plan, tracing, etc., or a positive picture in blue and white, from a negative, produced by photographic printing on peculiarly prepared paper.blueprint for action -- In print. (a) In a printed form; issued from the press; published. Shak. (b) To the letter; with accurateness. "All this I speak in print." Shak. -- Out of print. See under Out. -- Print works, a factory where cloth, as calico, is printed. PRINTA-BLE Print"a-ble, a. Defn: Worthy to be published. [R.] PRINTER Print"er, n. Defn: One who prints; especially, one who prints books, newspapers, engravings, etc., a compositor; a typesetter; a pressman. Printer's devil, Printer's gauge. See under Devil, and Gauge. -- Printer's ink. See Printing ink, below. PRINTERY Print"er*y, n. Defn: A place where cloth is printed; print works; also, a printing office. [R.] PRINTING Print"ing, n. Defn: The act, art, or practice of impressing letters, characters, or figures on paper, cloth, or other material; the business of a printer, including typesetting and presswork, with their adjuncts; typography; also, the act of producing photographic prints. Block printing. See under Block. -- Printing frame (Photog.), a shallow box, usually having a glass front, in which prints are made by exposure to light. -- Printing house, a printing office. -- Printing ink, ink used in printing books, newspapers, etc. It is composed of lampblack or ivory black mingled with linseed or nut oil, made thick by boiling and burning. Other ingredients are employed for the finer qualities. Ure. -- Printing office, a place where books, pamphlets, or newspapers, etc., are printed. -- Printing paper, paper used in the printing of books, pamphlets, newspapers, and the like, as distinguished from writing paper, wrapping paper, etc. -- Printing press, a press for printing, books, newspaper, handbills, etc. -- Printing wheel, a wheel with letters or figures on its periphery, used in machines for paging or numbering, or in ticket-printing machines, typewriters, etc.; a type wheel. PRINTING IN Print"ing in. (Photog.) Defn: A process by which cloud effects or other features not in the original negative are introduced into a photograph. Portions, such as the sky, are covered while printing and the blank space thus reserved is filled in by printing from another negative. PRINTING OUT Printing out. (Photog.) Defn: A method of printing, in which the image is fully brought out by the direct actinic action of light without subsequent development by means of chemicals. PRINTLESS Print"less, a. Defn: Making no imprint. Milton. PRINTLESS Print"less, a. Defn: Making no imprint. Milton. PRINTSHOP Print"shop`, n. Defn: A shop where prints are sold. PRIOR Pri"or, a. Etym: [L. prior former, previous, better, superior; compar. corresponding to primus first, and pro for. See Former, and cf. Prime, a., and Pre-, Pro-.] Defn: Preceding in the order of time; former; antecedent; anterior; previous; as, a prior discovery; prior obligation; -- used elliptically in cases like the following: he lived alone [in the time] prior to his marriage. PRIOR Pri"or, n. Etym: [OE. priour, OF. priour, prior, priur, F. prieur, from L. prior former, superior. See Prior, a.] (Eccl.) Defn: The superior of a priory, and next below an abbot in dignity. Conventical, or Conventual, prior, a prior who is at the head of his own house. See the Note under Priory. -- Claustral prior, an official next in rank to the abbot in a monastery; prior of the cloisters. PRIORATE Pri"or*ate, n. Etym: [LL. prioratus: cf. F. priorat.] Defn: The dignity, office, or government, of a prior. T. Warton. PRIORESS Pri"or*ess, n. Etym: [OF. prioresse.] Defn: A lady superior of a priory of nuns, and next in dignity to an abbess. PRIORITY Pri*or"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. priorité. See Prior, a.] 1. The quality