[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

window blind. SLAT Slat, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Slatted; p. pr. & vb. n. Slatting.] Etym: [OE. slatten; cf. Icel. sletta to slap, to dab.] 1. To slap; to strike; to beat; to throw down violently. [Prov. Eng. & Colloq. U.S.] How did you kill him Slat[t]ed his brains out. Marston. 2. To split; to crack. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 3. To set on; to incite. See 3d Slate. [Prov. Eng.] SLATCH Slatch, n. Etym: [See Slack.] (Naut.) (a) The period of a transitory breeze. (b) An interval of fair weather. (c) The loose or slack part of a rope; slack. SLATE Slate, n. Etym: [OE. slat, OF. esclat a shiver, splinter, F. éclat, fr. OF. esclater to shiver, to chip, F. éclater, fr. OHG. sliezen to tear, slit, split, fr. slizan to slit, G. schleissen. See Slit, v. t., and cf. Eclat.] 1. (Min.) Defn: An argillaceous rock which readily splits into thin plates; argillite; argillaceous schist. 2. Any rock or stone having a slaty structure. 3. A prepared piece of such stone. Especially: (a) A thin, flat piece, for roofing or covering houses, etc. (b) A tablet for writing upon. 4. An artificial material, resembling slate, and used for the above purposes. 5. A thin plate of any material; a flake. [Obs.] 6. (Politics) Defn: A list of candidates, prepared for nomination or for election; a list of candidates, or a programme of action, devised beforehand. [Cant, U.S.] Bartlett. Adhesive slate (Min.), a kind of slate of a greenish gray color, which absorbs water rapidly, and adheres to the tongue; whence the name. -- Aluminous slate, or Alum slate (Min.), a kind of slate containing sulphate of alumina, -- used in the manufacture of alum. -- Bituminous slate (Min.), a soft species of sectile clay slate, impregnated with bitumen. -- Hornblende slate (Min.), a slaty rock, consisting essentially of hornblende and feldspar, useful for flagging on account of its toughness. -- Slate ax or axe, a mattock with an ax end, used in shaping slates for roofs, and making holes in them for the nails. -- Slate clay (Geol.), an indurated clay, forming one of the alternating beds of the coal measures, consisting of an infusible compound of alumina and silica, and often used for making fire bricks. Tomlinson. -- Slate globe, a globe the surface of which is made of an artificial slatelike material. -- Slate pencil, a pencil of slate, or of soapstone, used for writing on a slate. -- Slate rocks (Min.), rocks which split into thin laminæ, not necessarily parallel to the stratification; foliated rocks. -- Slate spar (Min.), a variety of calcite of silvery white luster and of a slaty structure. -- Transparent slate, a plate of translucent material, as ground glass, upon which a copy of a picture, placed beneath it, can be made by tracing. SLATE Slate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Slated; p. pr. & vb. n. Slating.] 1. To cover with slate, or with a substance resembling slate; as, to slate a roof; to slate a globe. 2. To register (as on a slate and subject to revision), for an appointment. [Polit. Cant] SLATE Slate, v. t. Etym: [Cf. AS. slæting a privilege of hunting.] Defn: To set a dog upon; to bait; to slat. See 2d Slat, 3. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] [Written also slete.] Ray. SLATE-COLOR Slate"-col`or. Defn: A dark bluish gray color. SLATE-GRAY Slate"-gray`, a. Defn: Of a dark gray, like slate. SLATER Slat"er, n. Defn: One who lays slates, or whose occupation is to slate buildings. SLATER Slat"er, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: Any terrestrial isopod crustacean of the genus Porcellio and allied genera; a sow bug. SLATING Slat"ing, n. 1. The act of covering with slate, slates, or a substance resembling slate; the work of a slater. 2. Slates, collectively; also, material for slating. SLATT Slatt, n. Etym: [See Slat a strip of board.] Defn: A slab of stone used as a veneer for coarse masonry. Knight. SLATTER Slat"ter, v. i. Etym: [E. slat to throw or dash about.] Defn: To be careless, negligent, or aswkward, esp. with regard to dress and neatness; to be wasteful. Ray. SLATTERN Slat"tern, n. Defn: A woman who is negligent of her dress or house; one who is not neat and nice. SLATTERN Slat"tern, a. Defn: Resembling a slattern; sluttish; slatterny. "The slattern air." Gay. SLATTERN Slat"tern, v. t. Defn: To consume carelessly or wastefully; to waste; -- with away. [R.] Chesterfield. SLATTERNLINESS Slat"tern*li*ness, n. Defn: The quality or state of being slatternly; slovenliness; untidiness. SLATTERNLY Slat"tern*ly, a. Defn: Resembling a slattern; sluttish; negligent; dirty. -- adv. Defn: In a slatternly manner. SLATTERPOUCH Slat"ter*pouch`, n. Defn: A dance or game played by boys, requiring active exercise. [Obs.] Gayton. SLATTING Slat"ting, Defn: Slats, collectively. SLATTING Slat"ting, n. Defn: The violent shaking or flapping of anything hanging loose in the wind, as of a sail, when being hauled down. SLATY Slat"y, a. Etym: [From Slate.] Defn: Resembling slate; having the nature, appearance, or properties, of slate; composed of thin parallel plates, capable of being separated by splitting; as, a slaty color or texture. Slaty cleavage (Min.), cleavage, as of rocks, into thin leaves or plates, like those of slate; -- applied especially to those cases in which the planes of cleavage are not parallel to the planes of stratification. It is now believed to be caused by the compression which the strata have undergone. -- Slaty gneiss (Min.), a variety of gneiss in which the scales of mica or crystals of hornblende, which are usually minute, form thin laminæ, rendering the rock easily cleavable. SLAUGHTER Slaugh"ter, n. Etym: [OE. slautir, slaughter, slaghter, Icel. slatr slain flesh, modified by OE. slaught, slaht, slaughter, fr. AS. sleaht a stroke, blow; both from the root of E. slay. See Slay, v. t., and cf. Onslaught.] Defn: The act of killing. Specifically: (a) The extensive, violent, bloody, or wanton destruction of life; carnage. On war and mutual slaughter bent. Milton. (b) The act of killing cattle or other beasts for market. Syn. -- Carnage; massacre; butchery; murder; havoc. SLAUGHTER Slaugh"ter, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Slaughtered; p. pr. & vb. n. Slaughtering.] 1. To visit with great destruction of life; to kill; to slay in battle. Your castle is surprised; your wife and babes Savagely slaughtered. Shak. 2. To butcher; to kill for the market, as beasts. SLAUGHTERER Slaugh"ter*er, n. Defn: One who slaughters. SLAUGHTERHOUSE Slaugh"ter*house`, n. Defn: A house where beasts are butchered for the market. SLAUGHTERMAN Slaugh"ter*man, n.; pl. Slaughtermen (. Defn: One employed in slaughtering. Shak. SLAUGHTEROUS Slaugh"ter*ous, a. Defn: Destructive; murderous. Shak. M. Arnold. -- Slaugh"ter*ous*ly, adv. SLAV Slav, n.;pl. Slavs. Etym: [A word originally meaning, intelligible, and used to contrast the people so called with foreigners who spoke languages unintelligible to the Slavs; akin to OSlav. slovo a word, slava fame, Skr. çru to hear. Cf. Loud.] (Ethnol.) Defn: One of a race of people occupying a large part of Eastern and Northern Europe, including the Russians, Bulgarians, Roumanians, Servo-Croats, Slovenes, Poles, Czechs, Wends or Sorbs, Slovaks, etc. [Written also Slave, and Sclav.] SLAVE Slave, n. Defn: See Slav. SLAVE Slave, n. Etym: [Cf. F. esclave, D. slaaf, Dan. slave, sclave, Sw. slaf, all fr. G. sklave, MHG. also slave, from the national name of the Slavonians, or Sclavonians (in LL. Slavi or Sclavi), who were frequently made slaves by the Germans. See Slav.] 1. A person who is held in bondage to another; one who is wholly subject to the will of another; one who is held as a chattel; one who has no freedom of action, but whose person and services are wholly under the control of another. thou our slave, Our captive, at the public mill our drudge Milton. 2. One who has lost the power of resistance; one who surrenders himself to any power whatever; as, a slave to passion, to lust, to strong drink, to ambition. 3. A drudge; one who labors like a slave. 4. An abject person; a wretch. Shak. Slave ant (Zoöl.), any species of ants which is captured and enslaved by another species, especially Formica fusca of Europe and America, which is commonly enslaved by Formica sanguinea. -- Slave catcher, one who attempted to catch and bring back a fugitive slave to his master. -- Slave coast, part of the western coast of Africa to which slaves were brought to be sold to foreigners. -- Slave driver, one who superintends slaves at their work; hence, figuratively, a cruel taskmaster. -- Slave hunt. (a) A search after persons in order to reduce them to slavery. Barth. (b) A search after fugitive slaves, often conducted with bloodhounds. -- Slave ship, a vessel employed in the slave trade or used for transporting slaves; a slaver. -- Slave trade, the busines of dealing in slaves, especially of buying them for transportation from their homes to be sold elsewhere. -- Slave trader, one who traffics in slaves. Syn. -- Bond servant; bondman; bondslave; captive;