[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

in a tree for the purpose of procuring the sap. -- To box off, to divide into tight compartments. -- To box up. (a) To put into a box in order to save; as, he had boxed up twelve score pounds. (b) To confine; as, to be boxed up in narrow quarters. BOX Box, n. Etym: [Cf.Dan. baske to slap, bask slap, blow. Cf. Pash.] Defn: A blow on the head or ear with the hand. A good-humored box on the ear. W. Irving. BOX Box, v. i. Defn: To fight with the fist; to combat with, or as with, the hand or fist; to spar. BOX Box, v. t. Defn: To strike with the hand or fist, especially to strike on the ear, or on the side of the head. BOX Box, v. t. Etym: [Cf.Sp. boxar, now spelt bojar.] Defn: To boxhaul. To box off (Naut.), to turn the head of a vessel either way by bracing the headyards aback. -- To box the compass (Naut.), to name the thirty-two points of the compass in their order. BOXBERRY Box"ber`ry, n. (Bot.) Defn: The wintergreern. (Gaultheria procumbens). [Local, U.S.] BOXEN Box"en, a. Defn: Made of boxwood; pertaining to, or resembling, the box (Buxus). [R.] The faded hue of sapless boxen leaves. Dryden. BOXER Box"er, n. Defn: One who packs boxes. BOXER Box"er, n. Defn: One who boxes; a pugilist. BOXFISH Box"fish`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: The trunkfish. BOXHAUL Box"haul`, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Boxhauled.] (Naut.) Defn: To put (a vessel) on the other tack by veering her short round on her heel; -- so called from the circumstance of bracing the head yards abox (i. e., sharp aback, on the wind). Totten. BOXHAULING Box"haul`ing, n. (Naut.) Defn: A method of going from one tack to another. See Boxhaul. BOXING Box"ing, n. 1. The act of inclosing (anything) in a box, as for storage or transportation. 2. Material used in making boxes or casings. 3. Any boxlike inclosure or recess; a casing. 4. (Arch.) Defn: The external case of thin material used to bring any member to a required form. BOXING Box"ing, n. Defn: The act of fighting with the fist; a combat with the fist; sparring. Blackstone. Boxing glove, a large padded mitten or glove used in sparring for exercise or amusement. BOXING DAY Box"ing day`. Defn: The first week day after Christmas, a legal holiday on which Christmas boxes are given to postmen, errand boys, employees, etc. The night of this day is boxing night. [Eng.] BOX-IRON Box"-i`ron, n. Defn: A hollow smoothing iron containing a heater within. BOXKEEPER Box"keep`er, n. Defn: An attendant at a theater who has charge of the boxes. BOX KITE Box kite. Defn: A kite, invented by Lawrence Hargrave, of Sydney, Australia, which consist of two light rectangular boxes, or cells open on two sides, and fastened together horizontally. Called also Hargrave, or cellular, kite. BOX TAIL Box tail. (Aëronautics) Defn: In a flying machine, a tail or rudder, usually fixed, resembling a box kite. BOXTHORN Box"thorn`, n. (Bot.) Defn: A plant of the genus Lycium, esp. Lycium barbarum. BOXWOOD Box"wood`, n. Defn: The wood of the box (Buxus). BOY Boy, n. Etym: [Cf. D. boef, Fries. boi, boy; akin to G. bube, Icel. bofi rouge.] Defn: A male child, from birth to the age of puberty; a lad; hence, a son. My only boy fell by the side of great Dundee. Sir W. Scott. Note: Boy is often used as a term of comradeship, as in college, or in the army or navy. In the plural used colloquially of members of an assosiaton, fraternity, or party. Boy bishop, a boy (usually a chorister) elected bishop, in old Christian sports, and invested with robes and other insignia. He practiced a kind of mimicry of the ceremonies in which the bishop usually officiated. The Old Boy, the Devil. [Slang] -- Yellow boys, guineas. [Slang, Eng.] -- Boy's love, a popular English name of Southernwood (Artemisia abrotonum);) -- called also lad's love. -- Boy's play, childish amusements; anything trifling. BOY Boy, v. t. Defn: To act as a boy; -- in allusion to the former practice of boys acting women's parts on the stage. I shall see Some squeaking Cleopatra boy my greatness. Shak. BOYAR; BOYARD Bo*yar", Bo*yard", n. Etym: [Russ. boiárin'.] Defn: A member of a Russian aristocratic order abolished by Peter the Great. Also, one of a privileged class in Roumania. Note: English writers sometimes call Russian landed proprietors boyars. BOYAU Boy"au, n.; pl. Boyaux or Boyaus. Etym: [F. boyau gut, a long and narrow place, and (of trenches) a branch. See Bowel.] (Fort.) Defn: A winding or zigzag trench forming a path or communication from one siegework to another, to a magazine, etc. BOYCOTT Boy"cott`, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Boycotted; p. pr. & vb. n. Boycotting.] Etym: [From Captain Boycott, a land agent in Mayo, Ireland, so treated in 1880.] Defn: To combine against (a landlord, tradesman, employer, or other person), to withhold social or business relations from him, and to deter others from holding such relations; to subject to a boycott. BOYCOTT Boy"cott, n. Defn: The process, fact, or pressure of boycotting; a combining to withhold or prevent dealing or social intercourse with a tradesman, employer, etc.; social and business interdiction for the purpose of coercion. BOYCOTTER Boy"cott`er, n. Defn: A participant in boycotting. BOYCOTTISM Boy"cott*ism, n. Defn: Methods of boycotters. BOYDEKIN Boy"de*kin, n. Defn: A dagger; a bodkin. [Obs.] BOYER Boy"er, n. Etym: [D. boeijer; -- so called because these vessels were employed for laying the boeijen, or buoys: cf. F. boyer. See Buoy.] (Naut.) Defn: A Flemish sloop with a castle at each end. Sir W. Raleigh. BOYHOOD Boy"hood, n. Etym: [Boy + -hood.] Defn: The state of being a boy; the time during which one is a boy. Hood. BOYISH Boy"ish, a. Defn: Resembling a boy in a manners or opinions; belonging to a boy; childish; trifling; puerile. A boyish, odd conceit. Baillie. BOYISHLY Boy"ish*ly, adv. Defn: In a boyish manner; like a boy. BOYISHNESS Boy"ish*ness, n. Defn: The manners or behavior of a boy. BOYISM Boy"ism, n. 1. Boyhood. [Obs.] T. Warton. 2. The nature of a boy; childishness. Dryden. BOYLE'S LAW Boyle's" law`. Defn: See under Law. BOY SCOUT Boy scout. Defn: Orig., a member of the "Boy Scouts," an organization of boys founded in 1908, by Sir R. S. S. Baden-Powell, to promote good citizenship by creating in them a spirit of civic duty and of usefulness to others, by stimulating their interest in wholesome mental, moral, industrial, and physical activities, etc. Hence, a member of any of the other similar organizations, which are now worldwide. In "The Boy Scouts of America" the local councils are generally under a scout commissioner, under whose supervision are scout masters, each in charge of a troop of two or more patrols of eight scouts each, who are of three classes, tenderfoot, second-class scout, and first-class scout. BOZA Bo"za, n. Etym: [See Bosa.] Defn: An acidulated fermented drink of the Arabs and Egyptians, made from millet seed and various astringent substances; also, an intoxicating beverage made from hemp seed, darnel meal, and water. [Written also bosa, bozah, bouza.] BRABANTINE Bra*bant"ine, a. Defn: Pertaining to Brabant, an ancient province of the Netherlands. BRABBLE Brab"ble, v. i. Etym: [D. brabbelen to talk confusedly. Blab, Babble.] Defn: To clamor; to contest noisily. [R.] BRABBLE Brab"ble, n. Defn: A broil; a noisy contest; a wrangle. This petty brabble will undo us all. Shak. BRABBLEMENT Brab"ble*ment, n. Defn: A brabble. [R.] Holland. BRABBLER Brab"bler, n. Defn: A clamorous, quarrelsome, noisy fellow; a wrangler. [R] Shak. BRACCATE Brac"cate, a.Etym: [L. bracatus wearing breeches, fr. bracae breeches.] (Zoöl.) Defn: Furnished with feathers which conceal the feet. BRACE Brace, n. Etym: [OF. brace, brasse, the two arms, embrace, fathom, F. brasse fathom, fr. L. bracchia the arms (stretched out), pl. of bracchium arm; cf. Gr. 1. That which holds anything tightly or supports it firmly; a bandage or a prop. 2. A cord, ligament, or rod, for producing or maintaining tension, as a cord on the side of a drum. The little bones of the ear drum do in straining and relaxing it as the braces of the war drum do in that. Derham. 3. The state of being braced or tight; tension. The laxness of the tympanum, when it has lost its brace or tension. Holder. 4. (Arch. & Engin.) Defn: A piece of material used to transmit, or change the direction of, weight or pressure; any one of the pieces, in a frame or truss, which divide the structure into triangular parts. It may act as a tie, or as a strut, and serves to prevent distortion of the structure, and transverse strains in its members. A boiler brace is a diagonal stay, connecting the head with the shell. 5. (Print.) Defn: A vertical curved line connecting two or more words or lines, which are to be taken together; thus, boll, bowl;