[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

small wheels. 8. To beat with rapid, continuous strokes, as a drum; to sound a roll upon. 9. (Geom.) Defn: To apply (one line or surface) to another without slipping; to bring all the parts of (one line or surface) into successive contact with another, in suck manner that at every instant the parts that have been in contact are equal. 10. To turn over in one's mind; to revolve. Full oft in heart he rolleth up and down The beauty of these florins new and bright. Chaucer. To roll one's self, to wallow. -- To roll the eye, to direct its axis hither and thither in quick succession. -- To roll one's r's, to utter the letter r with a trill. [Colloq.] ROLL Roll, v. i. 1. To move, as a curved object may, along a surface by rotation without sliding; to revolve upon an axis; to turn over and over; as, a ball or wheel rolls on the earth; a body rolls on an inclined plane. And her foot, look you, is fixed upon a spherical stone, which rolls, and rolls, and rolls. Shak. 2. To move on wheels; as, the carriage rolls along the street. "The rolling chair." Dryden. 3. To be wound or formed into a cylinder or ball; as, the cloth rolls unevenly; the snow rolls well. 4. To fall or tumble; -- with over; as, a stream rolls over a precipice. 5. To perform a periodical revolution; to move onward as with a revolution; as, the rolling year; ages roll away. 6. To turn; to move circularly. And his red eyeballs roll with living fire. Dryden. 7. To move, as waves or billows, with alternate swell and depression. What different sorrows did within thee roll. Prior. 8. To incline first to one side, then to the other; to rock; as, there is a great difference in ships about rolling; in a general semse, to be tossed about. Twice ten tempestuous nights I rolled. Pope. 9. To turn over, or from side to side, while lying down; to wallow; as, a horse rolls. 10. To spread under a roller or rolling-pin; as, the paste rolls well. 11. To beat a drum with strokes so rapid that they can scarcely be distinguished by the ear. 12. To make a loud or heavy rumbling noise; as, the thunder rolls. To roll about, to gad abroad. [Obs.] Man shall not suffer his wife go roll about. Chaucer. ROLL Roll, n. Etym: [F. rôle a roll (in sense 3), fr. L. rotulus little wheel, LL., a roll, dim. of L. rota a wheel. See Roll, v., and cf. Rôle, Rouleau, Roulette.] 1. The act of rolling, or state of being rolled; as, the roll of a ball; the roll of waves. 2. That which rolls; a roller. Specifically: (a) A heavy cylinder used to break clods. Mortimer. (b) One of a set of revolving cylinders, or rollers, between which metal is pressed, formed, or smoothed, as in a rolling mill; as, to pass rails through the rolls. 3. That which is rolled up; as, a roll of fat, of wool, paper, cloth, etc. Specifically: (a) A document written on a piece of parchment, paper, or other materials which may be rolled up; a scroll. Busy angels spread The lasting roll, recording what we say. Prior. (b) Hence, an official or public document; a register; a record; also, a catalogue; a list. The rolls of Parliament, the entry of the petitions, answers, and transactions in Parliament, are extant. Sir M. Hale. The roll and list of that army doth remain. Sir J. Davies. (c) A quantity of cloth wound into a cylindrical form; as, a roll of carpeting; a roll of ribbon. (d) A cylindrical twist of tobacco. 4. A kind of shortened raised biscuit or bread, often rolled or doubled upon itself. 5. (Naut.) Defn: The oscillating movement of a vessel from side to side, in sea way, as distinguished from the alternate rise and fall of bow and stern called pitching. 6. A heavy, reverberatory sound; as, the roll of cannon, or of thunder. 7. The uniform beating of a drum with strokes so rapid as scarcely to be distinguished by the ear. 8. Part; office; duty; rôle. [Obs.] L'Estrange. Long roll (Mil.), a prolonged roll of the drums, as the signal of an attack by the enemy, and for the troops to arrange themselves in line. -- Master of the rolls. See under Master. -- Roll call, the act, or the time, of calling over a list names, as among soldiers. -- Rolls of court, of parliament (or of any public body), the parchments or rolls on which the acts and proceedings of that body are engrossed by the proper officer, and which constitute the records of such public body. -- To call the roll, to call off or recite a list or roll of names of persons belonging to an organization, in order to ascertain who are present or to obtain responses from those present. Syn. -- List; schedule; catalogue; register; inventory. See List. ROLLABLE Roll"a*ble, a. Defn: Capable of being rolled. ROLLER Roll"er, n. 1. One who, or that which, rolls; especially, a cylinder, sometimes grooved, of wood, stone, metal, etc., used in husbandry and the arts. 2. A bandage; a fillet; properly, a long and broad bandage used in surgery. 3. (Naut.) Defn: One of series of long, heavy waves which roll in upon a coast, sometimes in calm weather. 4. A long, belt-formed towel, to be suspended on a rolling cylinder; -- called also roller towel. 5. (Print.) Defn: A cylinder coated with a composition made principally of glue and molassess, with which forms of type are inked previously to taking an impression from them. W. Savage. 6. A long cylinder on which something is rolled up; as, the roller of a man. 7. A small wheel, as of a caster, a roller skate, etc. 8. (Zoöl.) Defn: ANy insect whose larva rolls up leaves; a leaf roller. see Tortrix. 9. Etym: [CF. F. rollier.] (Zoöl.) Defn: Any one of numerous species of Old World picarian birds of the family Coraciadæ. The name alludes to their habit of suddenly turning over or "tumbling" in flight. Note: Many of the species are brilliantly colored. The common European species (Coracias garrula) has the head, neck, and under parts light blue varied with green, the scapulars chestnut brown, and the tail blue, green, and black. The broad-billed rollers of India and Africa belong to the genus Eurystomus, as the oriental roller (E. orientalis), and the Australian roller, or dollar bird (E. Pacificus). The latter is dark brown on the head and neck, sea green on the back, and bright blue on the throat, base of the tail, and parts of the wings. It has a silvery-white spot on the middle of each wing. 10. (Zoöl.) Defn: Any species of small ground snakes of the family Tortricidæ. Ground roller (Zoöl.), any one of several species of Madagascar rollers belonging to Atelornis and allied genera. They are nocturnal birds, and feed on the ground. -- Roller bolt, the bar in a carriage to which the traces are attached; a whiffletree. [Eng.] -- Roller gin, a cotton gin inn which rolls are used for separating the seeds from the fiber. -- Roller mill. See under Mill. -- Roller skate, a skate which has small wheels in the place of the metallic runner; -- designed for use in skating upon a smooth, hard surface, other than ice. ROLLER BEARING Roll"er bear"ing. (Mach.) Defn: A bearing containing friction rollers. ROLLER COASTER Roller coaster. Defn: An amusement railroad in which cars coast by gravity over a long winding track, with steep pitches and ascents. ROLLEY Rol"ley, n. Etym: [Probably fr. roll.] Defn: A small wagon used for the underground work of a mine. Tomlison. ROLLIC Rol"lic, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Rollicked ; p. pr. & vb. n. Rollicking.] Etym: [Corrupt. fr. frolic, under the influence of roll.] Defn: To move or play in a careless, swaggering manner, with a frolicsome air; to frolic; to sport; commonly in the form rollicking. [Colloq.] He described his friends as rollicking blades. T. Hook. ROLLICHE; ROLLEJEE; ROLLICHIE Rol"li*che, n. [Also Rol"le*jee, Rol"li*chie.] [D. rolletje a little roll.] Defn: A kind of sausage, made in a bag of tripe, sliced and fried, famous among the Dutch of New Amsterdam and still known, esp. in New Jersey. ROLLING Roll"ing, a. 1. Rotating on an axis, or moving along a surface by rotation; turning over and over as if on an axis or a pivot; as, a rolling wheel or ball. 2. Moving on wheels or rollers, or as if on wheels or rollers; as, a rolling chair. 3. Having gradual, rounded undulations of surface; as, a rolling country; rolling land. [U.S.] Rolling bridge. See the Note under Drawbridge. -- Rolling circle of a paddle wheel, the circle described by the point whose velocity equals the velocity