[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

property depending on the relations of light to the eye, by which individual and specific differences in the hues and tints of objects are apprehended in vision; as, gay colors; sad colors, etc. Note: The sensation of color depends upon a peculiar function of the retina or optic nerve, in consequence of which rays of light produce different effects according to the length of their waves or undulations, waves of a certain length producing the sensation of red, shorter waves green, and those still shorter blue, etc. White, or ordinary, light consists of waves of various lengths so blended as to produce no effect of color, and the color of objects depends upon their power to absorb or reflect a greater or less proportion of the rays which fall upon them. 2. Any hue distinguished from white or black. 3. The hue or color characteristic of good health and spirits; ruddy complexion. Give color to my pale cheek. Shak. 4. That which is used to give color; a paint; a pigment; as, oil colors or water colors. 5. That which covers or hides the real character of anything; semblance; excuse; disguise; appearance. They had let down the boat into the sea, under color as though they would have cast anchors out of the foreship. Acts xxvii. 30. That he should die is worthy policy; But yet we want a color for his death. Shak. 6. Shade or variety of character; kind; species. Boys and women are for the most part cattle of this color. Shak. 7. A distinguishing badge, as a flag or similar symbol (usually in the plural); as, the colors or color of a ship or regiment; the colors of a race horse (that is, of the cap and jacket worn by the jockey). In the United States each regiment of infantry and artillery has two colors, one national and one regimental. Farrow. 8. (Law) Defn: An apparent right; as where the defendant in trespass gave to the plaintiff an appearance of title, by stating his title specially, thus removing the cause from the jury to the court. Blackstone. Note: Color is express when it is asverred in the pleading, and implied when it is implied in the pleading. Body color. See under Body. -- Color blindness, total or partial inability to distinguish or recognize colors. See Daltonism. -- Complementary color, one of two colors so related to each other that when blended together they produce white light; -- so called because each color makes up to the other what it lacks to make it white. Artificial or pigment colors, when mixed, produce effects differing from those of the primary colors, in consequence of partial absorption. -- Of color (as persons, races, etc.), not of the white race; -- commonly meaning, esp. in the United States, of negro blood, pure or mixed. -- Primary colors, those developed from the solar beam by the prism, viz., red, orange, yellow, green, blue, indigo, and violet, which are reduced by some authors to three, -- red, green, and violet-blue. These three are sometimes called fundamental colors. -- Subjective or Accidental color, a false or spurious color seen in some instances, owing to the persistence of the luminous impression upon the retina, and a gradual change of its character, as where a wheel perfectly white, and with a circumference regulary subdiveded, is made to revolve rapidly over a dark object, the teeth, of the wheel appear to the eye of different shades of color varying with the rapidity of rotation. See Accidental colors, under Accidental. COLOR Col"or, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Colored; p. pr. & vb. n. Coloring.] Etym: [F. colorer.] 1. To change or alter the bue or tint of, by dyeing, staining, painting, etc.; to dye; to tinge; to aint; to stain. The rays, to speak properly, are not colored; in them there is nothing else than a certain power and disposition to stir up a sensation of this or that color. Sir I. Newton. 2. To change or alter, as if by dyeing or painting; to give a false appearance to; usually, to give a specious appearance to; to cause to appear attractive; to make plausible; to palliate or excuse; as, the facts were colored by his prejudices. He colors the falsehood of Æneas by an express command from Jupiter to forsake the queen. Dryden. 3. To hide. [Obs.] That by his fellowship he color might Both his estate and love from skill of any wight. Spenser. COLOR Col"or, v. i. Defn: To acquire color; to turn red, especially in the face; to blush. COLORABLE Col"or*a*ble, a. Defn: Specious; plausible; having an appearance of right or justice. "Colorable pretense for infidility." Bp. Stillingfleet. -- Col"or*a*ble*ness, n. -- Col"or*a*bly, adv. Colorable and subtle crimes, that seldom are taken within the walk of human justice. Hooker. COLORADO BEETLE Col`o*ra"do bee"tle. (Zoöl.) Defn: A yellowish beetle (Doryphora decemlineata), with ten longitudinal, black, dorsal stripes. It has migrated eastwards from its original habitat in Colorado, and is very destructive to the potato plant; -- called also potato beetle and potato bug. See Potato beetle. COLORADO GROUP Col`o*ra"do group. (Geol.) Defn: A subdivision of the cretaceous formation of western North America, especially developed in Colorado and the upper Missouri region. COLORADOITE Col`o*ra"do*ite, n. (Min.) Defn: Mercury telluride, an iron-black metallic mineral, found in Colorado. COLORATE Col"or*ate, a. Etym: [L. coloratus, p. p. of colorare to color.] Defn: Colored. [Obs.] Ray. COLORATION Col`or*a"tion, n. Defn: The act or art of coloring; the state of being colored. Bacon. The females . . . resemble each other in their general type of coloration. Darwin. COLORATURE Col"or*a*ture, n. Etym: [Cf. G. coloratur, fr. LL. coloratura.] (Mus.) Defn: Vocal music colored, as it were, by florid ornaments, runs, or rapid passages. COLOR-BLIND Col"or-blind, a. Defn: Affected with color blindness. See Color blindness, under Color, n. COLORED Col"ored, a. 1. Having color; tinged; dyed; painted; stained. The lime rod, colored as the glede. Chaucer. The colored rainbow arched wide. Spenser. 2. Specious; plausible; aborned so as to appear well; as, a highly colored description. Sir G. C. Lewis. His colored crime with craft to cloke. Spenser. 3. Of some other color than black or white. 4. (Ethnol.) Defn: Of some other color than white; specifically applied to negroes or persons having negro blood; as, a colored man; the colored people. 5. (Bot.) Defn: Of some other color than green. Colored, meaning, as applied to foliage, of some other color than green. Gray. Note: In botany, green is not regarded as a color, but white is. Wood. COLORIFIC Col`or*if"ic, a. Etym: [L. color color + facere to make: cf. F. colorifique.] Defn: Capable of communicating color or tint to other bodies. COLORIMETER Col`or*im"e*ter, n. Etym: [Color + -meter: cf. F. colorimètre.] Defn: An instrument for measuring the depth of the color of anything, especially of a liquid, by comparison with a standard liquid. COLORIMETRY Col`or*im"e*try, n. [See Colorimeter.] 1. Defn: The quantitative determination of the depth of color of a substance. 2. A method of quantitative chemical analysis based upon the comparison of the depth of color of a solution with that of a standard liquid. COLORING Col"or*ing, n. 1. The act of applying color to; also, that which produces color. 2. Change of appearance as by addition of color; appearance; show; disguise; misrepresentation. Tell the whole story without coloring or gloss. Compton Reade. Dead coloring. See under Dead. COLORIST Col"or*ist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. coloriste.] Defn: One who colors; an artist who excels in the use of colors; one to whom coloring is of prime importance. Titian, Paul Veronese, Van Dyck, and the rest of the good colorists. Dryden. COLORLESS Col"or*less, a. 1. Without color; not distinguished by any hue; transparent; as, colorless water. 2. Free from any manifestation of partial or peculiar sentiment or feeling; not disclosing likes, dislikes, prejudice, etc.; as, colorless music; a colorless style; definitions should be colorless. COLORMAN Col"or*man, n.; pl. Colormen. Defn: A vender of paints, etc. Simmonds. COLOR SERGEANT Col"or ser"geant. Defn: See under Sergeant. COLOSSAL Co*los"sal, a. Etym: [Cf. F. cossal, L. colosseus. See Colossus.] 1. Of enormous size; gigantic; huge; as, a colossal statue. "A colossal stride." Motley. 2. (Sculpture & Painting) Defn: Of a size larger than heroic. See Heroic. COLOSSEAN Col`os*se"an, a. Defn: Colossal. [R.] COLOSSEUM Col`os*se"um, n. Etym: [Neut., fr. L. coloseus gigantic. See Coliseum.] Defn: The amphitheater of Vespasian in Rome. [Also written Coliseum.] COLOSSUS Co*los"sus, n.; pl. L. Colossi, E. Colossuses. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. 1. A statue of gigantic size. The name was especially applied to certain famous statues in antiquity, as the Colossus of Nero in Rome, the Colossus of Apollo at Rhodes. He doth bestride the narrow world Like a colossus. Shak. Note: There is no authority for the statement that the legs of the Colossus at Rhodes extended over the mouth of the harbor. Dr. Wm. Smith. 2. Any man or beast of gigantic size. COLOSTRUM Co*los"trum, n. Etym: [L.,