[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

to be differently applied; to be transferred; as, to turn from the road. Turn from thy fierce wrath. Ex. xxxii. 12. Turn ye, turn ye from your evil ways. Ezek. xxxiii. 11. The understanding turns inward on itself, and reflects on its own operations. Locke. 5. To be changed, altered, or transformed; to become transmuted; also, to become by a change or changes; to grow; as, wood turns to stone; water turns to ice; one color turns to another; to turn Mohammedan. I hope you have no intent to turn husband. Shak. Cygnets from gray turn white. Bacon. 6. To undergo the process of turning on a lathe; as, ivory turns well. 7. Specifically: -- (a) To become acid; to sour; -- said of milk, ale, etc. (b) To become giddy; -- said of the head or brain. I'll look no more; Lest my brain turn. Shak. (c) To be nauseated; -- said of the stomach. (d) To become inclined in the other direction; -- said of scales. (e) To change from ebb to flow, or from flow to ebb; -- said of the tide. (f) (Obstetrics) To bring down the feet of a child in the womb, in order to facilitate delivery. 8. (Print.) Defn: To invert a type of the same thickness, as temporary substitute for any sort which is exhausted. To turn about, to face to another quarter; to turn around. -- To turn again, to come back after going; to return. Shak. -- To turn against, to become unfriendly or hostile to. -- To turn aside or away. (a) To turn from the direct course; to withdraw from a company; to deviate. (b) To depart; to remove. (c) To avert one's face. -- To turn back, to turn so as to go in an opposite direction; to retrace one's steps. -- To turn in. (a) To bend inward. (b) To enter for lodgings or entertainment. (c) To go to bed. [Colloq.] -- To turn into, to enter by making a turn; as, to turn into a side street. -- To turn off, to be diverted; to deviate from a course; as, the road turns off to the left. -- To turn on or upon. (a) To turn against; to confront in hostility or anger. (b) To reply to or retort. (c) To depend on; as, the result turns on one condition. -- To turn out. (a) To move from its place, as a bone. (b) To bend or point outward; as, his toes turn out. (c) To rise from bed. [Colloq.] (d) To come abroad; to appear; as, not many turned out to the fire. (e) To prove in the result; to issue; to result; as, the cropsturned out poorly. -- To turn over, to turn from side to side; to roll; to tumble. -- To turn round. (a) To change position so as to face in another direction. (b) To change one's opinion; to change from one view or party to another. -- To turn to, to apply one's self to; have recourse to; to refer to. "Helvicus's tables may be turned to on all occasions." Locke. -- To turn to account, profit, advantage, or the like, to be made profitable or advantageous; to become worth the while. -- To turn under, to bend, or be folded, downward or under. -- To turn up. (a) To bend, or be doubled, upward. (b) To appear; to come to light; to transpire; to occur; to happen. TURN Turn, n. 1. The act of turning; movement or motion about, or as if about, a center or axis; revolution; as, the turn of a wheel. 2. Change of direction, course, or tendency; different order, position, or aspect of affairs; alteration; vicissitude; as, the turn of the tide. At length his complaint took a favorable turn. Macaulay. The turns and varieties of all passions. Hooker. Too well the turns of mortal chance I know. Pope. 3. One of the successive portions of a course, or of a series of occurrences, reckoning from change to change; hence, a winding; a bend; a meander. And all its [the river's] thousand turns disclose. Some fresher beauty varying round. Byron. 4. A circuitous walk, or a walk to and fro, ending where it began; a short walk; a stroll. Come, you and I must walk a turn together. Shak. I will take a turn in your garden. Dryden. 5. Successive course; opportunity enjoyed by alternation with another or with others, or in due order; due chance; alternate or incidental occasion; appropriate time. "Nobleness and bounty . . . had their turns in his [the king's] nature." His turn will come to laugh at you again. Denham . Every one has a fair turn to be as great as he pleases. Collier. 6. Incidental or opportune deed or office; occasional act of kindness or malice; as, to do one an ill turn. Had I not done a friendes turn to thee Chaucer. thanks are half lost when good turns are delayed. Fairfax. 7. Convenience; occasion; purpose; exigence; as, this will not serve his turn. I have enough to serve mine own turn. Shak. 8. Form; cast; shape; manner; fashion; -- used in a literal or figurative sense; hence, form of expression; mode of signifying; as, the turn of thought; a man of a sprightly turn in conversation. The turn of both his expressions and thoughts is unharmonious. Dryden. The Roman poets, in their description of a beautiful man, often mention the turn of his neck and arms. Addison. 9. A change of condition; especially, a sudden or recurring symptom of illness, as a nervous shock, or fainting spell; as, a bad turn. [Colloq.] 10. A fall off the ladder at the gallows; a hanging; -- so called from the practice of causing the criminal to stand on a ladder which was turned over, so throwing him off, when the signal was given. [Obs.] 11. A round of a rope or cord in order to secure it, as about a pin or a cleat. 12. (Mining) Defn: A pit sunk in some part of a drift. 13. (Eng. Law) Defn: A court of record, held by the sheriff twice a year in every hundred within his county. Blount. 14. pl. (Med.) Defn: Monthly courses; menses. [Colloq.] 15. (Mus.) Defn: An embellishment or grace (marked thus, By turns. (a) One after another; alternately; in succession. (b) At intervals. "[They] feel by turns the bitter change." Milton. -- In turn, in due order of succession. -- To a turn, exactly; perfectly; as, done to a turn; -- a phrase alluding to the practice of cooking on a revolving spit. -- To take turns, to alternate; to succeed one another in due order. -- Turn and turn about, by equal alternating periods of service or duty; by turns. -- Turn bench, a simple portable lathe, used on a bench by clock makers and watchmakers. -- Turn buckle. See Turnbuckle, in Vocabulary. -- Turn cap, a sort of chimney cap which turns round with the wind so as to present its opening to the leeward. G. Francis. -- Turn of life (Med.), change of life. See under Change. -- Turn screw, a screw driver. TURNBROACH Turn"broach`, n. Defn: A turnspit. [Obs.] " One that was her turnbroach." Beau. & Fl. TURN-BUCKLE Turn"-buc`kle, n. (Mech.) (a) A loop or sleeve with a screw thread at one end and a swivel at the other, -- used for tightening a rod, stay, etc. (b) A gravitating catch, as for fastening a shutter, the end of a chain, or a hasp. TURNBULL'S BLUE Turn"bull's blue`. (Chem.) Defn: The double cyanide of ferrous and ferric iron, a dark blue amorphous substance having a coppery luster, used in dyeing, calico printing, etc. Cf. Prussian blue, under Prussian. TURNCOAT Turn"coat`, n. Defn: One who forsakes his party or his principles; a renegade; an apostate. He is a turncoat, he was not true to his profession. Bunyan. TURNDOWN Turn"down`, a. 1. Capable of being turned down; specif. (Elec.), designating, or pertaining to, an incandescent lamp with a small additional filament which can be made incandescent when only a small amount of light is required. 2. Made to wear with the upper part turned down; as, a turndown collar. TURNEP Tur"nep, n. (Bot.) Defn: See Turnip. [Obs.] TURNER Turn"er, n. 1. One who turns; especially, one whose occupation is to form articles with a lathe. 2. (Zoöl.) Defn: A variety of pigeon; a tumbler. TURNER Tur"ner, n. Etym: [G.] Defn: A person who practices athletic or gymnastic exercises. TURNERITE Tur"ner*ite, n. Etym: [So called from the English chemist and mineralogist, C. H. Turner.] (Min.) Defn: A variety of monazite. TURNERY Turn"er*y, n. Etym: [Cf. F. tournerie.] 1. The art of fashioning solid bodies into cylindrical or other forms by means of a lathe. 2. Things or forms made by a turner, or in the lathe. Chairs of wood, the seats triangular, the backs, arms, and legs loaded with turnery.