[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

v. t.] 1. To shut up apart from others; to withdraw into, or place in, solitude; to separate from society or intercourse with others. Let Eastern tyrants from the light of heaven Seclude their bosom slaves. Thomson. 2. To shut or keep out; to exclude. [Obs.] Evelyn. -- Se*clud"ed*ly, adv. -- Se*clud"ed*ness, n. SECLUSION Se*clu"sion, n. Etym: [See Seclude.] Defn: The act of secluding, or the state of being secluded; separation from society or connection; a withdrawing; privacy; as, to live in seclusion. O blest seclusion from a jarring world, which he, thus occupied, enjoys! Cowper. Syn. -- Solitude; separation; withdrawment; retirement; privacy. See Solitude. SECLUSIVE Se*clu"sive, a. Defn: Tending to seclude; keeping in seclusion; secluding; sequestering. SECOND Sec"ond, a. Etym: [F., fr. L. secundus second, properly, following, fr. sequi to follow. See Sue to follow, and cf. Secund.] 1. Immediately following the first; next to the first in order of place or time; hence, occuring again; another; other. And he slept and dreamed the second time. Gen. xli. 5. 2. Next to the first in value, power, excellence, dignity, or rank; secondary; subordinate; inferior. May the day when we become the second people upon earth . . . be the day of our utter extirpation. Landor. 3. Being of the same kind as another that has preceded; another, like a protype; as, a second Cato; a second Troy; a second deluge. A Daniel, still say I, a second Daniel! Shak. Second Adventist. See Adventist. -- Second cousin, the child of a cousin. -- Second-cut file. See under File. -- Second distance (Art), that part of a picture between the foreground and the background; -- called also middle ground, or middle distance. [R.] -- Second estate (Eng.), the House of Peers. -- Second girl, a female house-servant who does the lighter work, as chamber work or waiting on table. -- Second intention. See under Intention. -- Second story, Story floor, in America, the second range of rooms from the street level. This, in England, is called the first floor, the one beneath being the ground floor. -- Second thought or thoughts, consideration of a matter following a first impulse or impression; reconsideration. On second thoughts, gentlemen, I don't wish you had known him. Dickens. SECOND Sec"ond, n. 1. One who, or that which, follows, or comes after; one next and inferior in place, time, rank, importance, excellence, or power. Man an angel's second, nor his second long. Young. 2. One who follows or attends another for his support and aid; a backer; an assistant; specifically, one who acts as another's aid in a duel. Being sure enough of seconds after the first onset. Sir H. Wotton. 3. Aid; assistance; help. [Obs.] Give second, and my love Is everlasting thine. J. Fletcher. 4. pl. Defn: An article of merchandise of a grade inferior to the best; esp., a coarse or inferior kind of flour. 5. Etym: [F. seconde. See Second, a.] Defn: The sixtieth part of a minute of time or of a minute of space, that is, the second regular subdivision of the degree; as, sound moves about 1,140 English feet in a second; five minutes and ten seconds north of this place. 6. In the duodecimal system of mensuration, the twelfth part of an inch or prime; a line. See Inch, and Prime, n., 8. 7. (Mus.) (a) The interval between any tone and the tone which is represented on the degree of the staff next above it. (b) The second part in a concerted piece; -- often popularly applied to the alto. Second hand, the hand which marks the seconds on the dial of a watch or a clock. SECOND Sec"ond, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Seconded; p. pr. & vb. n. Seconding.] Etym: [Cf. F. seconder, L. secundare, from secundus. See Second, a.] 1. To follow in the next place; to succeed; to alternate. [R.] In the method of nature, a low valley is immediately seconded with an ambitious hill. Fuller. Sin is seconded with sin. South. 2. To follow or attend for the purpose of assisting; to support; to back; to act as the second of; to assist; to forward; to encourage. We have supplies to second our attempt. Shak. In human works though labored on with pain, A thousand movements scarce one purpose gain; In God's, one single can its end produce, Yet serves to second too some other use. Pope. 3. Specifically, to support, as a motion or proposal, by adding one's voice to that of the mover or proposer. SECONDARILY Sec"ond*a*ri*ly, adv. 1. In a secondary manner or degree. 2. Secondly; in the second place. [Obs.] God hath set some in the church, first apostels, secondarily prophets, thirdly teachers. 1 Cor. xii. 28. SECONDARINESS Sec"ond*a*ri*ness, n. Defn: The state of being secondary. Full of a girl's sweet sense of secondariness to the object of her love. Mrs. Oliphant. SECONDARY Sec"ond*a*ry, a. Etym: [Cf. F. secondaire, L. secundaire. See Second, a.] 1. Suceeding next in order to the first; of second place, origin, rank, rank, etc.; not primary; subordinate; not of the first order or rate. Wheresoever there is normal right on the one hand, no secondary right can discharge it. L'Estrange. Two are the radical differences; the secondary differences are as four. Bacon. 2. Acting by deputation or delegated authority; as, the work of secondary hands. 3. (Chem.) Defn: Possessing some quality, or having been subject to some operation (as substitution), in the second degree; as, a secondary salt, a secondary amine, etc. Cf. primary. 4. (Min.) Defn: Subsequent in origin; -- said of minerals produced by alteertion or deposition subsequent to the formation of the original rocks mass; also of characters of minerals (as secondary cleavage, etc.) developed by pressure or other causes. 5. (Zoöl.) Defn: Pertaining to the second joint of the wing of a bird. 6. (Med.) Defn: Dependent or consequent upon another disease; as, Bright's disease is often secondary to scarlet fever. (b) Occuring in the second stage of a disease; as, the secondary symptoms of syphilis. Secondary accent. See the Note under Accent, n., 1. -- Secondary age. (Geol.) The Mesozoic age, or age before the Tertiary. See Mesozoic, and Note under Age, n., 8. -- Secondary alcohol (Chem.), any one of a series of alcohols which contain the radical CH.OH united with two hydrocarbon radicals. On oxidation the secondary alcohols form ketones. -- Secondary amputation (Surg.), an amputation for injury, performed after the constitutional effects of the injury have subsided. -- Secondary axis (Opt.), any line which passes through the optical center of a lens but not through the centers of curvature, or, in the case of a mirror, which passes through the center of curvature but not through the center of the mirror. -- Secondary battery. (Elec.) See under Battery, n., 4. -- Secondary circle (Geom. & Astron.), a great circle passes through the poles of another great circle and is therefore perpendicular to its plane. -- Secondary circuit, Secondary coil (Elec.), a circuit or coil in which a current is produced by the induction of a current in a neighboring circuit or coil called the primary circuit or coil. -- Secondary color, a color formed by mixing any two primary colors in equal proportions. -- Secondary coverts (Zoöl.), the longer coverts which overlie the basal part of the secondary quills of a bird. See Illust. under Bird. -- Secondary crystal (Min.), a crystal derived from one of the primary forms. -- Secondary current (Elec.), a momentary current induced in a closed circuit by a current of electricity passing through the same or a contiguous circuit at the beginning and also at the end of the passage of the primary current. -- Secondary evidence, that which is admitted upon failure to obtain the primary or best evidence. -- Secondary fever (Med.), a fever coming on in a disease after the subsidence of the fever with which the disease began, as the fever which attends the outbreak of the eruption in smallpox. -- Secondary hemorrhage (Med.), hemorrhage occuring from a wounded blood vessel at some considerable time after the original bleeding has ceased. -- Secondary planet. (Astron.) See the Note under Planet. -- Secondary qualities, those qualities of bodies which are not inseparable from them as such, but are dependent for their development and intensity on the organism of the percipient, such as color, taste, odor, etc. -- Secondary quills or remiges (Zoöl.), the quill feathers arising from the forearm of a bird and forming a row continuous with the primaries; -- called also secondaries. See Illust. of Bird. -- Secondary rocks or strata (Geol.), those lying between the Primary, or Paleozoic, and Tertiary (see Primary rocks, under Primary); -- later restricted to strata of the Mesozoic age, and at but little used. -- Secondary syphilis (Med.), the second stage of syphilis, including the period from the first development of constitutional symptoms to the time when the bones and the internal organs become involved. -- Secondary