[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #55148]

your toilet is charming." "Good heavens! If a hearse could speak, it would speak like that. You are not gay. Never mind; you are all the nicer. Ah!" And she fell into a sentimental and despondent fit, drawing closer to me, so that our shadows made one. Then, at a door in a side street, down which we had turned, she stopped, and drew a key from her pocket. "I must see you again," I said. "It is absolutely necessary. When can I see you, and where?" The door was open now. She drew me close to her, as if to whisper something, but she whispered nothing. Our lips had met in the darkness. Then I was in the hall; the door was closed, and, following her, I was led up a steep staircase, past a landing, up another staircase to a door. She opened the door, and the moonlight struck us in the face. The great moon was framed in the lattice window, and against its face the fronds of a plant growing on the sill in a flower pot were silhouetted. The bare, poorly furnished room was filled with light, pure as driven snow. She shut the door, with a little laugh, and I took her in my arms. "Eloise!" I said. She pushed me away, and stared at me with the laugh withered on her lips. Never shall I forget her face. "Have you forgotten Toto?" "Toto! Who--where----" Recollections were rushing upon her, but she did not yet understand. She seemed straining to catch some distant voice. "The Castle of Lichtenberg, the pine forests, little Carl. I tried to find you, but you were gone--years ago. I was only a child, and I could not find you. But I have found you now!" She was clinging to me, sobbing wildly; and I made her sit down on the side of the little bed. Then I sat by her, holding her whilst the sobs seemed to tear her to pieces. "I knew you," she said at last. "I knew you, but I did not recollect--little Toto! How could I tell?" Ah, yes, how could she tell? Through the miserable veils that lay between her and that happy time, the past seemed vague to her as a dream of earliest childhood. Then, bit by bit, with her head on my shoulder, the miserable tale unfolded itself. The Countess Feliciani had died when Eloise was fifteen. They were in the greatest poverty, living in the Rue St. Lazare. It was the old, old, wicked, weary story that makes us doubt at times the existence of a God. A model at Cardillac's and this wretched room. That was the story. We had entered that room a man and woman, the woman with a laugh on her lips. We sat on the side of the bed together--two children. Children just as we were that day sitting by the pond in the woods of Lichtenberg, with little Carl and his drum. For Eloise had never grown up. The thing she was then in heart and spirit she was now. Then, as the moon drew away slowly, and the room grew darker, we talked: and I can fancy how the evil ones who are for ever about us covered their faces and cowered as they listened and watched. "And little Carl?" asked Eloise. "Where is he?" The question, spoken in the semi-darkness, caused a shiver to run through me. "Who knows?" I said. "Or what he is doing? Eloise, I am half afraid. I met a man to-night, a musician; he saw me at the Schloss that time which seems so long ago. He spoke about Carl, and then I came with him to the ball. Only for him, I would not have met you, and it all seems like fate. Let us talk of ourselves. You can't stay here in this house: you must leave it to-morrow. I will arrange everything. I am rich. Think of it!" She laughed and clung closer to me. Despite her bitter experiences, she had no more real knowledge of the world than myself. Money was a thing to amuse oneself with--a thing very hard to obtain. "You will leave this place and live in the country. You will never go to Cardillac's again. Think, Eloise; it is May! You never see the country here in Paris. The hawthorn is out, and the woods at Etiolles are more beautiful than the forest was at Lichtenberg. Why, you are crying!" "I am crying because I am happy," said she, whispering the words against my shoulder. Then I left her. I cannot tell you my feelings. I cannot put them into words. It was as if I had seen Moloch face to face, seen the brazen monster in the Square of Carthage, seen the officiating priests and the little veiled children seized by the brazen arms and plunged in the burning stomach. I had seen that day Eloise Feliciani, the living child, and Amy Feraud, the cinder remnants of a child consumed; and God in His mercy had given me power to seize Eloise from the monster, scorched, indeed, but living. I found the Boulevard St. Michel almost deserted now, and took my way along it to the Seine. "What are you to do with her?" That is the question I would have asked myself had I been a man of the world. But I knew nothing of the world or the convenances. I was not in love with her. Had I met her for the first time that night it might have been different; but for me she was just the child of Lichtenberg, the little figure I had last seen standing at the door of the Hôtel de Mayence, holding in her arms the black cat with the amber eyes. What was I to do with her? I had already made up my mind. I would put her to live in the Pavilion of Saluce. I had not a real friend in the world except old Joubert, or a thing to love. I would be no longer lonely. What good times we would have! I leaned over the parapet of the Pont des Arts, looking at the river, all lilac in the dawn, thinking of the woods at Saluce, and watching myself in fancy wandering there with Eloise. Then I returned to the Place Vendôme. It was very late, or, rather, very early; and before our house a carriage was drawn up, and from it M. le Vicomte Armand de Chatellan was being assisted. He had only just returned from the Duc de Bassano's, and he was very tipsy. He was an object lesson to vulgar tipplers. Severe and stately, assisted by Beril on one side and the footman on the other, the grand old aristocrat marched towards the door he could not see. I watched the pro-consular silhouette vanish. One could almost hear the murmur of the togaed crowd and the "Consul Romanus" of the lictors. CHAPTER XX WHEN IT IS MAY The meeting with Eloise so disturbed my mind that I had quite forgotten one thing--Franzius. I had promised to see him after the ball--an impossible promise to fulfil considering the way the affair ended. When I awoke at six of this bright May morning, which was the herald of a new chapter of my life, Franzius and his old fiddle, one under the arm of the other, entered my mind directly the door of consciousness was opened by Joubert's knock at the door of my room. I had told him to waken me at six. So, though I had fallen asleep directly my head touched the pillow, I had slept only two hours when the summons came to get up. But I did not care. I was as fresh as a lark. Youth, good health, the absence of any earthly trouble, and the spirit of May, which peeped with the sun into the courtyard of the Hôtel de Chatellan, made life a thing worth waking up to. But it was different with Joubert. He was yawning, and as sulky as any old servant could possibly be, as he put out my clothes and drew up the blind. "Joubert," said I, sitting up in bed, "do you remember, nine years ago, when we were staying at the Schloss Lichtenberg, a little girl in a white dress and a blue scarf, and white pantalettes with frills to them?" "Mordieu!" grumbled Joubert, putting out my razors. "Do I remember? Well, what about her?" "I met her last night." Joubert, who, with a towel over his arm, was just on the point of going into the bathroom adjoining, wheeled round. "Met her! And where?" "At a students' ball." Then I told him the whole business; told him of the ruin of the Felicianis, of the death of the Countess, of Eloise's forlorn position, and of the plans I had half made for her future; to all of which he