[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

To mock or insult; to treat with contempt. Phillida flouts me. Walton. Three gaudy standarts lout the pale blue sky. Byron. FLOUT Flout, v. i. Defn: To practice mocking; to behave with contempt; to sneer; to fleer; -- often with at. Fleer and gibe, and laugh and flout. Swift. FLOUT Flout, n. Defn: A mock; an insult. Who put your beauty to this flout and scorn. Tennyson. FLOUTER Flout"er, n. Defn: One who flouts; a mocker. FLOUTINGLY Flout"ing*ly, adv. Defn: With flouting; insultingly; as, to treat a lover floutingly. FLOW Flow, obs. Defn: imp. sing. of Fly, v. i. Chaucer. FLOW Flow, v. i. [imp. & p. p. FFlowed; p. pr. & vb. n. Flowing.] Etym: [AS. flowan; akin to D. vloeijen, OHG. flawen to wash, Icel. floa to deluge, Gr. float, fleet. *80. Cf. Flood.] 1. To move with a continual change of place among the particles or parts, as a fluid; to change place or circulate, as a liquid; as, rivers flow from springs and lakes; tears flow from the eyes. 2. To become liquid; to melt. The mountains flowed down at thy presence. Is. lxiv. 3. 3. To pproceed; to issue forth; as, wealth flows from industry and economy. Those thousand decencies that daily flow From all her words and actions. Milton. 4. To glide along smoothly, without harshness or asperties; as, a flowing period; flowing numbers; to sound smoothly to the ear; to be uttered easily. Virgil is sweet and flowingin his hexameters. Dryden. 5. To have or be in abundance; to abound; to full, so as to run or flow over; to be copious. In that day . . . the hills shall flow with milk. Joel iii. 18. The exhilaration of a night that needed not the influence of the flowing bowl. Prof. Wilson. 6. To hang loose and waving; as, a flowing mantle; flowing locks. The imperial purple flowing in his train. A. Hamilton. 7. To rise, as the tide; -- opposed to ebb; as, the tide flows twice in twenty-four hours. The river hath thrice flowed, no ebb between. Shak. 8. To discharge blood in excess from the uterus. FLOW Flow, v. t. 1. To cover with water or other liquid; to overflow; to inundate; to flood. 2. To cover with varnish. FLOW Flow, n. 1. A stream of water or other fluid; a current; as, a flow of water; a flow of blood. 2. A continuous movement of something abundant; as, a flow of words. 3. Any gentle, gradual movement or procedure of thought, diction, music, or the like, resembling the quiet, steady movement of a river; a stream. The feast of reason and the flow of soul. Pope. 4. The tidal setting in of the water from the ocean to the shore. See Ebb and flow, under Ebb. 5. A low-lying piece of watery land; -- called also flow moss and flow bog. [Scot.] Jamieson. FLOWAGE Flow"age (; 48), n. Defn: An overflowing with water; also, the water which thus overflows. FLOWEN Flow"en, obs. Defn: imp. pl. of Fly, v. i. Chaucer. FLOWER Flow"er, n. Etym: [OE. flour, OF. flour, flur, flor, F. fleur, fr. L. flos, floris. Cf. Blossom, Effloresce, Floret, Florid, Florin, Flour, Flourish.] 1. In the popular sense, the bloom or blossom of a plant; the showy portion, usually of a different color, shape, and texture from the foliage. 2. (Bot.) Defn: That part of a plant destined to produce seed, and hence including one or both of the sexual organs; an organ or combination of the organs of reproduction, whether inclosed by a circle of foliar parts or not. A complete flower consists of two essential parts, the stamens and the pistil, and two floral envelopes, the corolla and callyx. In mosses the flowers consist of a few special leaves surrounding or subtending organs called archegonia. See Blossom, and Corolla. Note: If we examine a common flower, such for instance as a geranium, we shall find that it consists of: First, an outer envelope or calyx, sometimes tubular, sometimes consisting of separate leaves called sepals; secondly, an inner envelope or corolla, which is generally more or less colored, and which, like the calyx, is sometimes tubular, sometimes composed of separate leaves called petals; thirdly, one or more stamens, consisting of a stalk or filament and a head or anther, in which the pollen is produced; and fourthly, a pistil, which is situated in the center of the flower, and consists generally of three principal parts; one or more compartments at the base, each containing one or more seeds; the stalk or style; and the stigma, which in many familiar instances forms a small head, at the top of the style or ovary, and to which the pollen must find its way in order to fertilize the flower. Sir J. Lubbock. 3. The fairest, freshest, and choicest part of anything; as, the flower of an army, or of a family; the state or time of freshness and bloom; as, the flower of life, that is, youth. The choice and flower of all things profitable the Psalms do more briefly contain. Hooker. The flower of the chivalry of all Spain. Southey. A simple maiden in her flower Is worth a hundred coats of arms. Tennyson. 4. Grain pulverized; meal; flour. [Obs.] The flowers of grains, mixed with water, will make a sort of glue. Arbuthnot. 5. pl. (Old. Chem.) Defn: A substance in the form of a powder, especially when condensed from sublimation; as, the flowers of sulphur. 6. A figure of speech; an ornament of style. 7. pl. (Print.) Defn: Ornamental type used chiefly for borders around pages, cards, etc. W. Savage. 8. pl. Defn: Menstrual discharges. Lev. xv. 24. Animal flower (Zoöl.) See under Animal. -- Cut flowers, flowers cut from the stalk, as for making a bouquet. -- Flower bed, a plat in a garden for the cultivation of flowers. -- Flower beetle (Zoöl.), any beetle which feeds upon flowers, esp. any one of numerous small species of the genus Meligethes, family Nitidulidæ, some of which are injurious to crops. -- Flower bird (Zoöl.), an Australian bird of the genus Anthornis, allied to the honey eaters. -- Flower bud, an unopened flower. -- Flower clock, an assemblage of flowers which open and close at different hours of the day, thus indicating the time. -- Flower head (Bot.), a compound flower in which all the florets are sessile on their receptacle, as in the case of the daisy. -- Flower pecker (Zoöl.), one of a family (Dicæidæ) of small Indian and Australian birds. They resemble humming birds in habits. -- Flower piece. (a) A table ornament made of cut flowers. (b) (Fine Arts) A picture of flowers. -- Flower stalk (Bot.), the peduncle of a plant, or the stem that supports the flower or fructification. FLOWER Flow"er, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Flowered; p. pr. & vb. n. Flowering.] Etym: [From the noun. Cf. Flourish.] 1. To blossom; to bloom; to expand the petals, as a plant; to produce flowers; as, this plant flowers in June. 2. To come into the finest or fairest condition. Their lusty and flowering age. Robynson (More's Utopia). When flowered my youthful spring. Spenser. 3. To froth; to ferment gently, as new beer. That beer did flower a little. Bacon. 4. To come off as flowers by sublimation. [Obs.] Observations which have flowered off. Milton. FLOWER Flow"er, v. t. Defn: To embellish with flowers; to adorn with imitated flowers; as, flowered silk. FLOWERAGE Flow"er*age (; 48), n. Defn: State of flowers; flowers, collectively or in general. Tennyson. FLOWER-DE-LUCE Flow"er-de-luce", n. Etym: [Corrupted fr. fleur-de-lis.] (Bot.) Defn: A genus of perennial herbs (Iris) with swordlike leaves and large three-petaled flowers often of very gay colors, but probably white in the plant first chosen for the royal French emblem. Note: There are nearly one hundred species, natives of the north temperate zone. Some of the best known are Iris Germanica, I. Florentina, I. Persica, I. sambucina, and the American I. versicolor, I. prismatica, etc. FLOWERER Flow"erer, n. Defn: A plant which flowers or blossoms. Many hybrids are profuse and persistent flowerers. Darwin. FLOWERET Flow"er*et, n. Defn: A small flower; a floret. Shak. FLOWER-FENCE Flow"er-fence`, n. (Bot.) Defn: A tropical leguminous bush (Poinciana, or Cæsalpinia, pulcherrima) with prickly branches, and showy yellow or red flowers; -- so named from its having been sometimes used for hedges in the West Indies. Baird. FLOWERFUL Flow"er*ful, a. Defn: Abounding with flowers. Craig. FLOWER-GENTLE Flow"er-gen`tle, n. (Bot.) Defn: A species of amaranth (Amarantus melancholicus). FLOWERINESS Flow"er*i*ness, n. Defn: The state of being flowery. FLOWERING Flow"er*ing, a. (Bot.) Defn: Having conspicuous flowers; -- used as an epithet with many names of plants; as, flowering ash; flowering dogwood; flowering almond, etc. Flowering fern, a genus of showy ferns (Osmunda), with conspicuous bivalvular sporangia. They usually grow in wet places. -- Flowering plants, plants which have stamens and pistils, and produce true seeds; phenogamous plants; -- distinguished from flowerless plants.