[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

lightning; to display a flash or flashes of lightning; to flash. This dreadful night, That thunders, lightens, opens graves, and roars As doth the lion. Shak. 2. To grow lighter; to become less dark or lowering; to brighten; to clear, as the sky. LIGHTEN Light"en, v. t. Etym: [See Light to illuminate.] 1. To make light or clear; to light; to illuminate; as, to lighten an apartment with lamps or gas; to lighten the streets. [In this sense less common than light.] A key of fire ran all along the shore, And lightened all the river with a blaze. Dryden. 2. To illuminate with knowledge; to enlighten. [In this sense less common than enlighten.] Lighten my spirit with one clear heavenly ray. Sir J. Davies. 3. To emit or disclose in, or as in, lightning; to flash out, like lightning. His eye . . . lightens forth Controlling majesty. Shak. 4. To free from trouble and fill with joy. They looked unto him, were lightened. Ps. xxxiv. 5. LIGHTEN Light"en, v. t. Etym: [See Light not heavy.] 1. To make lighter, or less heavy; to reduce in weight; to relieve of part of a load or burden; as, to lighten a ship by unloading; to lighten a load or burden. 2. To make less burdensome or afflictive; to alleviate; as, to lighten the cares of life or the burden of grief. 3. To cheer; to exhilarate. Lighens my humor with his merry jests. Shak. LIGHTER Light"er, n. Defn: One who, or that which, lights; as, a lighter of lamps. LIGHTER Light"er, n. Etym: [D. ligter, fr. ligt light. See Light not heavy.] (Naut.) Defn: A large boat or barge, mainly, used in unloading or loading vessels which can not reach the wharves at the place of shipment or delivery. Lighter screw (Mach.), a screw for adjusting the distance between the stones in a grinding mill by raising or lowering the bridgetree. LIGHTER Light"er, v. t. Defn: To convey by a lighter, as to or from the shore; as, to lighter the cargo of a ship. LIGHTERAGE Light"er*age, n. 1. The price paid for conveyance of goods on a lighter. 2. The act of unloading into a lighter, or of conveying by a lighter. LIGHTERMAN Light"er*man, n.; pl. Lightermen (. Defn: A person employed on, or who manages, a lighter. LIGHT-FINGERED Light"-fin`gered, a. Defn: Dexterous in taking and conveying away; thievish; pilfering; addicted to petty thefts. Fuller. LIGHT-FOOT; LIGHT-FOOTED Light"-foot`, Light"-foot`ed, a. Defn: Having a light, springy step; nimble in running or dancing; active; as, light-foot Iris. Tennyson. LIGHTFUL Light"ful, a. Defn: Full of light; bright. [R.] "Lightful presence." Marston. LIGHT-HANDED Light"-hand`ed, a. (Naut.) Defn: Not having a full complement of men; as, a vessel light-handed. LIGHT-HEADED Light"-head`ed, a. 1. Disordered in the head; dilirious. Walpole. 2. Thoughtless; heedless; volatile; unsteady; fickle; loose. "Light- headed, weak men." Clarendon. -- Light"-head`ed*ness, n. LIGHT-HEARTED Light"-heart"ed, a. Defn: Free from grief or anxiety; gay; cheerful; merry. -- Light"-heart`ed*ly, adv. -- Light"-heart"ed*ness, n. LIGHT-HEELED Light"-heeled`, a. Defn: Lively in walking or running; brisk; light-footed. LIGHT-HORSEMAN Light"-horse`man, n.; pl. -men (. 1. A soldier who serves in the light horse. See under 5th Light. 2. (Zoöl.) Defn: A West Indian fish of the genus Ephippus, remarkable for its high dorsal fin and brilliant colors. LIGHTHOUSE Light"house` n.; pl.Lighthouses (. Defn: A tower or other building with a powerful light at top, erected at the entrance of a port, or at some important point on a coast, to serve as a guide to mariners at night; a pharos. LIGHTING Light"ing, n. (Metal.) Defn: A name sometimes applied to the process of annealing metals. LIGHT-LEGGED Light"-legged`, a. Defn: Nimble; swift of foot. Sir P. Sidney. LIGHTLESS Light"less, a. Defn: Destitute of light; dark. Shak. LIGHTLY Light"ly, adv. 1. With little weight; with little force; as, to tread lightly; to press lightly. Yet shall thy grave with rising flowers be drest, And the green turf lie lightly on thy breast. Pope. Him thus intent Ithuriel with his spear Touched lightly. Milton. 2. Swiftly; nimbly; with agility. So mikle was that barge, it might not lightly sail. R. of Brunne. Watch what thou seest and lightly bring me word. Tennyson. 3. Without deep impression. The soft ideas of the cheerful note, Lightly received, were easily forgot. Prior. 4. In a small degree; slightly; not severely. At the first he lightly afflicted the land of Zebulun . . . and afterward did more grievously afflict her. Is. ix. 1. 5. With little effort or difficulty; easily; readily. That lightly come, shall lightly go. Old Proverb. They come lightly by the malt, and need not spare it. Sir W. Scott. 6. Without reason, or for reasons of little weight. Flatter not the rich, neither do thou willingly or lightly appear before great personages. Jer. Taylor. 7. Commonly; usually. [Obs.] Bp. Fisher. The great thieves of a state are lightly the officers of the crown. B. Jonson. 8. Without dejection; cheerfully. "Seeming to bear it lightly." Shak. 9. Without heed or care; with levity; gayly; airily. Matrimony . . . is not by any to be enterprised, nor taken in hand, unadvisedly, lightly, or wantonly. Book of Common Prayer [Eng. Ed.]. 10. Not chastely; wantonly. Swift. LIGHTMAN Light"man, n. ; pl. -men ( Defn: A man who carries or takes care of a light. T. Brown. LIGHT-MINDED Light"-mind`ed, a. Defn: Unsettled; unsteady; volatile; not considerate. -- Light"-mind`ed*ness, n. LIGHTNESS Light"ness, n. Etym: [From Light not heavy.] Defn: The state, condition, or quality, of being light or not heavy; buoyancy; levity; fickleness; delicacy; grace. Syn. -- Levity; volatility; instability; inconstancy; unsteadiness; giddiness; flightiness; airiness; gayety; liveliness; agility; nimbleness; sprightliness; briskness; swiftness; ease; facility. LIGHTNESS Light"ness, n. Etym: [From Light bright.] 1. Illumination, or degree of illumination; as, the lightness of a room. Chaucer. 2. Absence of depth or of duskiness in color; as, the lightness of a tint; lightness of complexion. LIGHTNING Light"ning, n. Etym: [For lightening, fr. lighten to flash.] 1. A discharge of atmospheric electricity, accompanied by a vivid flash of light, commonly from one cloud to another, sometimes from a cloud to the earth. The sound produced by the electricity in passing rapidly through the atmosphere constitutes thunder. 2. The act of making bright, or the state of being made bright; enlightenment; brightening, as of the mental powers. [R.] Ball lightning, a rare form of lightning sometimes seen as a globe of fire moving from the clouds to the earth. -- Chain lightning, lightning in angular, zigzag, or forked flashes. -- Heat lightning, more or less vivid and extensive flashes of electric light, without thunder, seen near the horizon, esp. at the close of a hot day. -- Lightning arrester (Telegraphy), a device, at the place where a wire enters a building, for preventing injury by lightning to an operator or instrument. It consists of a short circuit to the ground interrupted by a thin nonconductor over which lightning jumps. Called also lightning discharger. -- Lightning bug (Zoöl.), a luminous beetle. See Firefly. -- Lightning conductor, a lightning rod. -- Lightning glance, a quick, penetrating glance of a brilliant eye. -- Lightning rod, a metallic rod set up on a building, or on the mast of a vessel, and connected with the earth or water below, for the purpose of protecting the building or vessel from lightning. -- Sheet lightning, a diffused glow of electric light flashing out from the clouds, and illumining their outlines. The appearance is sometimes due to the reflection of light from distant flashes of lightning by the nearer clouds. LIGHTNING Light"ning, vb. n. Defn: Lightening. [R.] LIGHT-O'-LOVE Light"-o'-love`, n. 1. An old tune of a dance, the name of which made it a proverbial expression of levity, especially in love matters. Nares. "Best sing it to the tune of light-o'-love." Shak. 2. Hence: A light or wanton woman. Beau. & Fl. LIGHTROOM Light"room`, n. Defn: A small room from which the magazine of a naval vessel is lighted, being separated from the magazine by heavy glass windows. LIGHTS lights, n. pl. Etym: [So called from their lightness.] Defn: The lungs of an animal or bird; -- sometimes coarsely applied to the lungs of a human being. LIGHT-SHIP Light"-ship`, n. (Naut.) Defn: A vessel carrying at the masthead a brilliant light, and moored off a shoal or place of dangerous navigation as a guide for mariners. LIGHTSOME Light"some, a. 1. Having light; lighted; not dark or gloomy; bright. White walls make rooms more lightsome than black. Bacon. 2. Gay; airy; cheering; exhilarating. That lightsome affection of joy. Hooker. -- Light"some*ly, adv. -- Light"some*ness, n. Happiness may walk soberly in dark attire, as well as dance lightsomely in a gala dress. Hawthorne. LIGHTSTRUCK Light"*struck`, a. (Photog.) Defn: Damaged by accidental exposure to light; light-fogged; -- said of plates or films. LIGHTWEIGHT Light"weight`, n. One of less than average weight; specif.: (a) In boxing, wrestling, etc., one weighingnot more than 133 pounds (U. S. amateur rules 135 pounds, Eng.