[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

of two species of the genus Gillenia (G. trifoliata, and G. stipulacea), common in the United States, the roots of which are used in medicine as a mild emetic; -- called also American ipecac, and bowman's root. Gray. -- Indian pink. (Bot.) (a) The Cypress vine (Ipomoea Quamoclit); -- so called in the West Indies. (b) See China pink, under China. -- Indian pipe (Bot.), a low, fleshy herb (Monotropa uniflora), growing in clusters in dark woods, and having scalelike leaves, and a solitary nodding flower. The whole plant is waxy white, but turns black in drying. -- Indian plantain (Bot.), a name given to several species of the genus Cacalia, tall herbs with composite white flowers, common through the United States in rich woods. Gray. -- Indian poke (Bot.), a plant usually known as the white hellebore (Veratrum viride). -- Indian pudding, a pudding of which the chief ingredients are Indian meal, milk, and molasses. -- Indian purple. (a) A dull purple color. (b) The pigment of the same name, intensely blue and black. -- Indian red. (a) A purplish red earth or pigment composed of a silicate of iron and alumina, with magnesia. It comes from the Persian Gulf. Called also Persian red. (b) See Almagra. -- Indian rice (Bot.), a reedlike water grass. See Rice. -- Indian shot (Bot.), a plant of the genus Canna (C. Indica). The hard black seeds are as large as swan shot. See Canna. -- Indian summer, in the United States, a period of warm and pleasant weather occurring late in autumn. See under Summer. -- Indian tobacco (Bot.), a species of Lobelia. See Lobelia. -- Indian turnip (Bot.), an American plant of the genus Arisæma. A. triphyllum has a wrinkled farinaceous root resembling a small turnip, but with a very acrid juice. See Jack in the Pulpit, and Wake-robin. -- Indian wheat, maize or Indian corn. -- Indian yellow. (a) An intense rich yellow color, deeper than gamboge but less pure than cadmium. (b) See Euxanthin. INDIAN In"di*an, n. 1. A native or inhabitant of India. 2. One of the aboriginal inhabitants of America; -- so called originally from the supposed identity of America with India. INDIANEER In`di*an*eer", n. (Naut.) Defn: An Indiaman. INDIA RUBBER In"di*a rub"ber Defn: . See Caoutchouc. INDIA STEEL In"di*a steel. Defn: Same as Wootz. INDICAL In"dic*al, a. Etym: [From L. index, indicis, an index.] Defn: Indexical. [R.] Fuller. INDICAN In"di*can, n. Etym: [See Indigo.] 1. (Chem.) Defn: A glucoside obtained from woad (indigo plant) and other plants, as a yellow or light brown sirup. It has a nauseous bitter taste, a decomposes or drying. By the action of acids, ferments, etc., it breaks down into sugar and indigo. It is the source of natural indigo. 2. (Physiol. Chem.) Defn: An indigo-forming substance, found in urine, and other animal fluids, and convertible into red and blue indigo (urrhodin and uroglaucin). Chemically, it is indoxyl sulphate of potash, C8H6NSO4K, and is derived from the indol formed in the alimentary canal. Called also uroxanthin. INDICANT In"di*cant, a. Etym: [L. indicans, p. pr. indicare. See Indicate.] Defn: Serving to point out, as a remedy; indicating. INDICANT In"di*cant, n. Defn: That which indicates or points out; as, an indicant of the remedy for a disease. INDICATE In"di*cate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Indicated; p. pr. & vb. n. Indicating.] Etym: [L. indicatus, p. p. of indicare to indicate; pref. in- in + dicare to proclaim; akin to dicere to say. See Diction, and cf. Indict, Indite.] 1. To point out; to discover; to direct to a knowledge of; to show; to make known. That turns and turns to indicate From what point blows the weather. Cowper. 2. (Med.) Defn: To show or manifest by symptoms; to point to as the proper remedies; as, great prostration of strength indicates the use of stimulants. 3. (Mach.) Defn: To investigate the condition or power of, as of steam engine, by means of an indicator. Syn. -- To show; mark; signify; denote; discover; evidence; evince; manifest; declare; specify; explain; exhibit; present; reveal; disclose; display. INDICATED In"di*ca`ted, a. Defn: Shown; denoted; registered; measured. Indicated power. See Indicated horse power, under Horse power. INDICATION In`di*ca"tion, n. Etym: [L. indicatio: cf. F. indication.] 1. Act of pointing out or indicating. 2. That which serves to indicate or point out; mark; token; sign; symptom; evidence. The frequent stops they make in the most convenient places are plain indications of their weariness. Addison. 3. Discovery made; information. Bentley. 4. Explanation; display. [Obs.] Bacon. 5. (Med.) Defn: Any symptom or occurrence in a disease, which serves to direct to suitable remedies. Syn. -- Proof; demonstration; sign; token; mark; evidence; signal. INDICATIVE In*dic"a*tive, a. Etym: [L. indicativus: cf. F. indicatif.] 1. Pointing out; bringing to notice; giving intimation or knowledge of something not visible or obvious. That truth id productive of utility, and utility indicative of truth, may be thus proved. Bp. Warburton. 2. (Fine Arts) Defn: Suggestive; representing the whole by a part, as a fleet by a ship, a forest by a tree, etc. Indicative mood (Gram.), that mood or form of the verb which indicates, that is, which simply affirms or denies or inquires; as, he writes; he is not writing; has the mail arrived INDICATIVE In*dic"a*tive, n. (Gram.) Defn: The indicative mood. INDICATIVELY In*dic"a*tive*ly, adv. Defn: In an indicative manner; in a way to show or signify. INDICATOR In"di*ca`tor, n. Etym: [L.: cf. F. indicateur.] 1. One who, or that which, shows or points out; as, a fare indicator in a street car. 2. (Mach.) Defn: A pressure gauge; a water gauge, as for a steam boiler; an apparatus or instrument for showing the working of a machine or moving part; as: (a) (Steam Engine) An instrument which draws a diagram showing the varying pressure in the cylinder of an engine or pump at every point of the stroke. It consists of a small cylinder communicating with the engine cylinder and fitted with a piston which the varying pressure drives upward more or less against the resistance of a spring. A lever imparts motion to a pencil which traces the diagram on a card wrapped around a vertical drum which is turned back and forth by a string connected with the piston rod of the engine. See Indicator card (below). (b) A telltale connected with a hoisting machine, to show, at the surface, the position of the cage in the shaft of a mine, etc. 3. (Mech.) Defn: The part of an instrument by which an effect is indicated, as an index or pointer. 4. (Zoöl.) Defn: Any bird of the genus Indicator and allied genera. See Honey guide, under Honey. 5. (Chem.) Defn: That which indicates the condition of acidity, alkalinity, or the deficiency, excess, or sufficiency of a standard reagent, by causing an appearance, disappearance, or change of color, as in titration or volumetric analysis. Note: The common indicators are limits, tropæolin, phenol phthalein, potassic permanganate, etc. Indicator card, the figure drawn by an engine indicator, by means of which the working of the engine can be investigated and its power calculated. The Illustration shows one form of indicator card, from a steam engine, together with scales by which the pressure of the steam above or below that of the atmosphere, corresponding to any position of the engine piston in its stroke, can be measured. Called also indicator diagram. -- Indicator telegraph, a telegraph in which the signals are the deflections of a magnetic needle, as in the trans-Atlantic system. INDICATORY In"di*ca*to*ry, a. Defn: Serving to show or make known; showing; indicative; signifying; implying. INDICATRIX In`di*ca"trix, n. Etym: [NL.] (Geom. of Three Dimensions) Defn: A certain conic section supposed to be drawn in the tangent plane to any surface, and used to determine the accidents of curvature of the surface at the point of contact. The curve is similar to the intersection of the surface with a parallel to the tangent plane and indefinitely near it. It is an ellipse when the curvature is synclastic, and an hyperbola when the curvature is anticlastic. INDICAVIT In`di*ca"vit, n. Etym: [L., he has indicated.] (Eng. Law) Defn: A writ of prohibition against proceeding in the spiritual court in certain cases, when the suit belongs to the common-law courts. Wharton (Law Dict. ). INDICE In"dice, n. Etym: [F. indice indication, index. See Index.] Defn: Index; indication. [Obs.] B. Jonson. INDICES In"di*ces, n. pl. Defn: See Index. INDICIA In*di"ci*a, n. pl. Etym: [L., pl. of indicium, fr. index an index.] (Law) Defn: Discriminating marks; signs; tokens; indications; appearances. Burrill. INDICIBLE In*dic"i*ble, a. Etym: [F.] Defn: Unspeakable. [Obs.] INDICOLITE In*dic"o*lite, n. Etym: [L. indicum indigo + -lite: cf. F. indicolithe.] (Min.) Defn: A variety of tourmaline of an indigo-blue color. INDICT In*dict", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Indicted; p. pr. & vb. n. Indicting.] Etym: [OE. enditen. See Indite.] 1. To write; to compose; to dictate; to indite. [Obs.] 2. To appoint publicly or by authority; to proclaim or announce.