[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

Lappish. LAPPING Lap"ping, n. Defn: A kind of machine blanket or wrapping material used by calico printers. Ure. Lapping engine, Lapping machine (Textile Manuf.), A machine for forming fiber info a lap. See its Lap, 9. LAPPISH Lap"pish, a. Defn: Of or pertaining to the Lapps; Laplandish. -- n. Defn: The language spoken by the Lapps in Lapland. It is related to the Finnish and Hungarian, and is not an Aryan language. LAPPONIAN; LAPPONIC Lap*po"ni*an, Lap*pon"ic, a. Defn: Laplandish; Lappish. LAPPS Lapps, n. pl.; sing. Lapp (. (Ethnol.) Defn: A branch of the Mongolian race, now living in the northern parts of Norway, Sweden, and the adjacent parts of Russia. LAPSABLE Laps"a*ble, a. Defn: Lapsible. Cudworth. LAPSE Lapse, n. Etym: [L. lapsus, fr. labi, p. p. lapsus, to slide, to fall: cf. F. laps. See Sleep.] 1. A gliding, slipping, or gradual falling; an unobserved or imperceptible progress or passing away,; -- restricted usually to immaterial things, or to figurative uses. The lapse to indolence is soft and imperceptible. Rambler. Bacon was content to wait the lapse of long centuries for his expected revenue of fame. I. Taylor. 2. A slip; an error; a fault; a failing in duty; a slight deviation from truth or rectitude. To guard against those lapses and failings to which our infirmities daily expose us. Rogers. 3. (Law) Defn: The termination of a right or privilege through neglect to exercise it within the limited time, or through failure of some contingency; hence, the devolution of a right or privilege. 4. (Theol.) Defn: A fall or apostasy. LAPSE Lapse, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Lapsed; p. pr. & vb. n. Lapsing.] 1. To pass slowly and smoothly downward, backward, or away; to slip downward, backward, or away; to glide; -- mostly restricted to figurative uses. A tendency to lapse into the barbarity of those northern nations from whom we are descended. Swift. Homer, in his characters of Vulcan and Thersites, has lapsed into the burlesque character. Addison. 2. To slide or slip in moral conduct; to fail in duty; to fall from virtue; to deviate from rectitude; to commit a fault by inadvertence or mistake. To lapse in fullness Is sorer than to lie for need. Shak. 3. (Law) (a) To fall or pass from one proprietor to another, or from the original destination, by the omission, negligence, or failure of some one, as a patron, a legatee, etc. (b) To become ineffectual or void; to fall. If the archbishop shall not fill it up within six months ensuing, it lapses to the king. Ayliffe. LAPSE Lapse, v. t. 1. To let slip; to permit to devolve on another; to allow to pass. An appeal may be deserted by the appellant's lapsing the term of law. Ayliffe. 2. To surprise in a fault or error; hence, to surprise or catch, as an offender. [Obs.] For which, if be lapsed in this place, I shall pay dear. Shak. LAPSED Lapsed, a. 1. Having slipped downward, backward, or away; having lost position, privilege, etc., by neglect; -- restricted to figurative uses. Once more I will renew His lapsed powers, though forfeit. Milton. 2. Ineffectual, void, or forfeited; as, a lapsed policy of insurance; a lapsed legacy. Lapsed devise, Lapsed legacy (Law), a devise, or legacy, which fails to take effect in consequence of the death of the devisee, or legatee, before that of the testator, or for ether cause. Wharton (Law Dict.). LAPSIBLE Laps"i*ble, a. Defn: Liable to lapse. LAPSIDED Lap"sid`ed, a. Defn: See Lopsided. LAPSTONE Lap"stone`, n. Defn: A stone for the lap, on which shoemakers beat leather. LAPSTREAK; LAPSTRAKE Lap"streak`, Lap"strake`, a. Defn: Made with boards whose edges lap one over another; clinker- built; -- said of boats. LAPUTAN La*pu"tan, a. Defn: Of or pertaining to Laputa, an imaginary flying island described in Gulliver's Travels as the home of chimerical philosophers. Hence, fanciful; preposterous; absurd in science or philosophy. "Laputan ideas." G. Eliot. LAP-WELDED Lap"-weld`ed, a Defn: Having edges or ends united by a lap weld; as, a lap-welded pipe. LAPWING Lap"wing`, n. Etym: [OE.lapwynke, leepwynke, AS. hleápewince; hleápan to leap, jump + (prob.) a word akin to AS. wincian to wink, E. wink, AS. wancol wavering; cf. G. wanken to stagger, waver. See Leap, and Wink.] (Zoöl.) Defn: A small European bird of the Plover family (Vanellus cristatus, or V. vanellus). It has long and broad wings, and is noted for its rapid, irregular fight, upwards, downwards, and in circles. Its back is coppery or greenish bronze. Its eggs are the "plover's eggs" of the London market, esteemed a delicacy. It is called also peewit, dastard plover, and wype. The gray lapwing is the Squatarola cinerea. LAPWORK Lap"work`, n. Defn: Work in which one part laps over another. Grew. LAQUAY Laq"uay, n. Defn: A lackey. [Obs.] Evelyn. LAQUEAR La"que*ar, n.; pl. Laquearia. Etym: [L.] (Arch.) Defn: A lacunar. LAQUEARY Laq"ue*a*ry, a. Etym: [L. laqueus a noose.] Defn: Using a noose, as a gladiator. [Obs. or R.] Retiary and laqueary combatants. Sir T. Browne. LAR Lar, n.; pl. Lares, sometimes Lars. Etym: [L.] (Rom. Myth.) Defn: A tutelary deity; a deceased ancestor regarded as a protector of the family. The domestic Lares were the tutelar deities of a house; household gods. Hence, Eng.: Hearth or dwelling house. Nor will she her dear Lar forget, Victorious by his benefit. Lovelace. The Lars and Lemures moan with midnight plaint. Milton. Looking backward in vain toward their Lares and lands. Longfellow. LAR Lar, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: A species of gibbon (Hylobates lar), found in Burmah. Called also white-handed gibbon. LARAMIE GROUP Lar"a*mie group`. (Geol.) Defn: An extensive series of strata, principally developed in the Rocky Mountain region, as in the Laramie Mountains, and formerly supposed to be of the Tertiary age, but now generally regarded as Cretaceous, or of intermediate and transitional character. It contains beds of lignite, often valuable for coal, and is hence also called the lignitic group. See Chart of Geology. LARBOARD Lar"board`, n. Etym: [Lar- is of uncertain origin, possibly the same as lower, i. e., humbler in rank, because the starboard side is considered by mariners as higher in rank; cf. D. laag low, akin to E. low. See Board, n., 8.] (Naut.) Defn: The left-hand side of a ship to one on board facing toward the bow; port; -- opposed to Ant: starboard. Note: Larboard is a nearly obsolete term, having been superseded by port to avoid liability of confusion with starboard, owing to similarity of sound. LARBOARD Lar"board`, a. Defn: On or pertaining to the left-hand side of a vessel; port; as, the larboard quarter. LARCENER; LARCENIST Lar"ce*ner, Lar"ce*nist, n. Defn: One who commits larceny. LARCENOUS Lar"ce*nous, a. Etym: [Cf. OE. larrecinos. See Larceny.] Defn: Having the character of larceny; as, a larcenous act; committing larceny. "The larcenous and burglarious world." Sydney Smith. -- Lar"ce*nous*ly, adv. LARCENY Lar"ce*ny, n.; pl. Larcenies. Etym: [F. larcin, OE. larrecin, L. latrocinium, fr. latro robber, mercenary, hired servant; cf. Gr. (Latrociny.] (Law) Defn: The unlawful taking and carrying away of things personal with intent to deprive the right owner of the same; theft. Cf. Embezzlement. Grand larceny and Petit larceny are distinctions having reference to the nature or value of the property stolen. They are abolished in England. -- Mixed, or Compound, larceny, that which, under statute, includes in it the aggravation of a taking from a building or the person. -- Simple larceny, that which is not accompanied with any aggravating circumstances. LARCH Larch, n. Etym: [Cf. OE. larege (Cotgrave), It.larice, Sp. larice, alerce, G. lärche; all fr. L. larix, -icis, Gr. ( (Bot.) Defn: A genus of coniferous trees, having deciduous leaves, in fascicles (see Illust. of Fascicle). Note: The European larch is Larix Europæa. The American or black larch is L. Americana, the hackmatack or tamarack. The trees are generally of a drooping, graceful appearance. LARCHEN Larch"en, a. Defn: Of or pertaining to the larch. Keats. LARD Lard, n. Etym: [F., bacon, pig's fat, L. lardum, laridum; cf. Gr. ( 1. Bacon; the flesh of swine. [Obs.] Dryden. 2. The fat of swine, esp. the internal fat of the abdomen; also, this fat melted and strained. Lard oil, an illuminating and lubricating oil expressed from lard. -- Leaf lard, the internal fat of the hog, separated in leaves or masses from the kidneys, etc.; also, the same melted. LARD Lard, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Larded; p. pr. & vb. n. Larding.] Etym: [F. larder. See Lard, n.] 1. To stuff with bacon; to dress or enrich with lard; esp., to insert lardons of bacon or pork in the surface of, before roasting; as, to lard poultry. And larded thighs on loaded altars laid. Dryden. 2. To fatten; to enrich. [The oak] with his nuts larded many a swine. Spenser. Falstaff sweats to death. And lards the lean earth as he walks along. Shak. 3. To smear with lard or fat. In his buff doublet larded o'er with fat Of slaughtered