[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

circuit. 5. (Fine Arts) Defn: To cover with a ground, as a copper plate for etching (see Ground, n., 5); or as paper or other materials with a uniform tint as a preparation for ornament. GROUND Ground, v. i. Defn: To run aground; to strike the bottom and remain fixed; as, the ship grounded on the bar. GROUND Ground, Defn: imp. & p. p. of Grind. Ground cock, a cock, the plug of which is ground into its seat, as distinguished from a compression cock. Knight. -- Ground glass, glass the transparency of which has been destroyed by having its surface roughened by grinding. -- Ground joint, a close joint made by grinding together two pieces, as of metal with emery and oil, or of glass with fine sand and water. GROUNDAGE Ground"age, n. Defn: A local tax paid by a ship for the ground or space it occupies while in port. Bouvier. GROUNDEDLY Ground"ed*ly, adv. Defn: In a grounded or firmly established manner. Glanvill. GROUNDEN Ground"en, obs. Defn: p. p. of Grind. Chaucer. GROUNDING Ground"ing, n. Defn: The act, method, or process of laying a groundwork or foundation; hence, elementary instruction; the act or process of applying a ground, as of color, to wall paper, cotton cloth, etc.; a basis. GROUNDLESS Ground"less, a. Etym: [AS. grundleás bottomless.] Defn: Without ground or foundation; wanting cause or reason for support; not authorized; false; as, groundless fear; a groundless report or assertion. -- Ground"less*ly, adv. -- Ground"less*ness, n. GROUNDLING Ground"ling, n. Etym: [Ground + -ling.] 1. (Zoöl.) Defn: A fish that keeps at the bottom of the water, as the loach. 2. A spectator in the pit of a theater, which formerly was on the ground, and without floor or benches. No comic buffoon to make the groundlings laugh. Coleridge. GROUNDLY Ground"ly, adv. Defn: Solidly; deeply; thoroughly. [Obs.] Those whom princes do once groundly hate, Let them provide to die as sure us fate. Marston. GROUNDNUT Ground"nut`, n. (Bot.) (a) The fruit of the Arachis hypogæa (native country uncertain); the peanut; the earthnut. (b) A leguminous, twining plant (Apios tuberosa), producing clusters of dark purple flowers and having a root tuberous and pleasant to the taste. (c) The dwarf ginseng (Aralia trifolia). [U. S.] Gray. (d) A European plant of the genus Bunium (B. flexuosum) having an edible root of a globular shape aud sweet, aromatic taste; -- called also earthnut, earth chestnut, hawknut, and pignut. GROUNDSEL Ground"sel, n. Etym: [OE. grundswilie, AS. gpundeswylige, grundeswelge, earlier gundiswilge; gund matter, pus + swelgan to swallow. So named as being good for a running from the eye. See Swallow, v.] (Bot.) Defn: An annual composite plant (Senecio vulgaris) one of the most common, and widely distributed weeds on the globe. GROUNDSEL Ground"sel, n. Etym: [Ground + sill.] Defn: See Ground GROUNDSILL Ground"sill` Defn: GROUNDWORK Ground"work`, n. Defn: That which forms the foundation or support of anything; the basis; the essential or fundamental part; first principle. Dryden. GROUP Group, n. Etym: [F groupe, It. gruppo, groppo, cluster, bunch, packet, group; of G. origin: cf. G. krepf craw, crop, tumor, bunch. See Crop, n.] 1. A cluster, crowd, or throng; an assemblage, either of persons or things, collected without any regular form or arrangement; as, a group of men or of trees; a group of isles. 2. An assemblage of objects in a certain order or relation, or having some resemblance or common characteristic; as, groups of strata. 3. (Biol.) Defn: A variously limited assemblage of animals or planta, having some resemblance, or common characteristics in form or structure. The term has different uses, and may be made to include certain species of a genus, or a whole genus, or certain genera, or even several orders. 4. (Mus.) Defn: A number of eighth, sixteenth, etc., notes joined at the stems; -- sometimes rather indefinitely applied to any ornament made up of a few short notes. GROUP Group, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Grouped; p. pr. & vb. n. Grouping.] Etym: [Cf. F. grouper. See Group, n.] Defn: To form a group of; to arrange or combine in a group or in groups, often with reference to mutual relation and the best effect; to form an assemblage of. The difficulty lies in drawing and disposing, or, as the painters term it, in grouping such a multitude of different objects. Prior. Grouped columns (Arch.), three or moro columns placed upon the same pedestal. GROUPER Group"er, n. Etym: [Corrupted fr. Pg. garupa crupper. Cf. Garbupa.] (Zoöl.) (a) One of several species of valuable food fishes of the genus Epinephelus, of the family Serranidæ, as the red grouper, or brown snapper (E. morio), and the black grouper, or warsaw (E. nigritus), both from Florida and the Gulf of Mexico. (b) The tripletail (Lobotes). (c) In California, the name is often applied to the rockfishes. [Written also groper, gruper, and trooper.] GROUPING Group"ing, n. (Fine Arts) Defn: The disposal or relative arrangement of figures or objects, as in, drawing, painting, and sculpture, or in ornamental design. GROUSE Grouse, n. sing. & pl. Etym: [Prob. after the analogy of mouse, mice, fr. the earlier grice, OF. griesche meor hen: cf. F. piegrièche shrike.] (Zoöl. Defn: ) Any of the numerous species of gallinaceous birds of the family Tetraonidæ, and subfamily Tetraoninæ, inhabiting Europe, Asia, and North America. They have plump bodies, strong, well-feathered legs, and usually mottled plumage. The group includes the ptarmigans (Lagopus), having feathered feet. Note: Among the European species are the red grouse (Lagopus Scoticus) and the hazel grouse (Bonasa betulina). See Capercaidzie, Ptarmigan, and Heath grouse. Among the most important American species are the ruffed grouse, or New England partridge (Bonasa umbellus); the sharp-tailed grouse (Pediocætes phasianellus) of the West; the dusky blue, or pine grouse (Dendragapus obscurus) of the Rocky Mountains; the Canada grouse, or spruce partridge (D. Canadensis). See also Prairie hen, and Sage cock. The Old World sand grouse (Pterocles, etc.) belong to a very different family. See Pterocletes, and Sand grouse. GROUSE Grouse, v. i. Defn: To seek or shoot grouse. GROUSER Grou"ser, n. Defn: (Dredging, Pile Driving, etc.) A pointed timber attached to a boat and sliding vertically, to thrust into the ground as a means of anchorage. GROUT Grout, n. Etym: [AS. grut; akin to grytt, G. grütze, griess, Icel. grautr, Lith. grudas corn, kernel, and Z. groats.] 1. Coarse meal; ground malt; pl. groats. 2. Formerly, a kind of beer or ale. [Eng.] 3. pl. Defn: Lees; dregs; grounds. [Eng.] "Grouts of tea." Dickens. 4. A thin, coarse mortar, used for pouring into the joints of masonry and brickwork; also, a finer material, used in finishing the best ceilings. Gwilt. GROUT Grout, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Grouted; p. pr. & vb. n. Grouting.] Defn: To fill up or finish with grout, as the joints between stones. GROUTHEAD Grout"head`, n. [Obs.] Defn: See Growthead. GROUTING Grout"ing, n. Defn: The process of filling in or finishing with grout; also, the grout thus filled in. Gwilt. GROUTNOL Grout"nol, n. Etym: [See Groat, and Noll, n.] [Obs.] Defn: Same as Growthead. Beau. & Fl. GROUTY Grout"y, a. Defn: Cross; sulky; sullen. [Colloq.] GROVE Grove, n. Etym: [AS. graf, fr. grafan to dig. Defn: The original sense seems to have been a lane cut through trees. See Grave, v., and cf. Groove.] A smaller group of trees than a forest, and without underwood, planted, or growing naturally as if arranged by art; a wood of small extent. Note: The Hebrew word Asherah, rendered grove in the Authorized Version of the Bible, is left untranslated in the Revised Version. Almost all modern interpreters agree that by Asherah an idol or image of some kind is intended. GROVEL Grov"el, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Groveled or Grovelled; p. pr. & vb. n. Groveling or Grovelling.] Etym: [From OE. grovelinge, grufelinge, adv., on the face, prone, which was misunderstood as a p. pr.; cf. OE. gruf, groff, in the same sense; of Scand. origin, cf. Icel. grufa, in a grufu on the face, prone, grufa to grovel.] 1. To creep on the earth, or with the face to the ground; to lie prone, or move uneasily with the body prostrate on the earth; to lie fiat on one's belly, expressive of abjectness; to crawl. To creep and grovel on the ground. Dryden. 2. To tend toward, or delight in, what is sensual or base; to be low, abject, or mean. GROVELER Grov"el*er, n. Defn: One who grovels; an abject wretch. [Written also groveller.] GROVELING Grov"el*ing, a. Defn: Lying prone; low; debased. [Written also grovelling.] "A groveling creature." Cowper. GROVY Grov"y, a. Defn: Pertaining to, or resembling, a grove; situated in, or frequenting, groves. Dampier. GROW Grow, v. i. [imp. Grew; p. p. Grown (; p. pr. & vb. n. Growing.] Etym: [AS. grawan; akin to D. groeijen, Icel. groa, Dan. groe, Sw. gro. Cf. Green, Grass.] 1. To increase in size by a natural and organic process; to increase in bulk by the gradual assimilation