[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

tristearin, tripalmitin, and triolein, mixed in varying proportions. As olein is liquid at ordinary temperatures, while the other two fats are solid, it follows that the consistency or hardness of fats depends upon the relative proportion of the three individual fats. During the life of an animal, the fat is mainly in a liquid state in the fat cells, owing to the solubility of the two solid fats in the more liquid olein at the body temperature. Chemically, fats are composed of fatty acid, as stearic, palmitic, oleic, etc., united with glyceryl. In butter fat, olein and palmitin predominate, mixed with another fat characteristic of butter, butyrin. In the vegetable kingdom many other fats or glycerides are to be found, as myristin from nutmegs, a glyceride of lauric acid in the fat of the bay tree, etc. 2. The best or richest productions; the best part; as, to live on the fat of the land. 3. (Typog.) Defn: Work. containing much blank, or its equivalent, and, therefore, profitable to the compositor. Fat acid. (Chem.) See Sebacic acid, under Sebacic. -- Fat series, Fatty series (Chem.), the series of the paraffine hydrocarbons and their derivatives; the marsh gas or methane series. -- Natural fats (Chem.), the group of oily substances of natural occurrence, as butter, lard, tallow, etc., as distinguished from certain fatlike substance of artificial production, as paraffin. Most natural fats are essentially mixtures of triglycerides of fatty acids. FAT Fat, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Fatted; p. pr. & vb. n. atting.] Etym: [OE. fatten, AS. f. See Fat, a., and cf. Fatten.] Defn: To make fat; to fatten; to make plump and fleshy with abundant food; as, to fat fowls or sheep. We fat all creatures else to fat us. Shak. FAT Fat, v. i. Defn: To grow fat, plump, and fleshy. An old ox fats as well, and is as good, as a young one. Mortimer. FATAL Fa"tal, a. Etym: [L. fatalis, fr. fatum: cf. F. fatal. See Fate.] 1. Proceeding from, or appointed by, fate or destiny; necessary; inevitable. [R.] These thing are fatal and necessary. Tillotson. It was fatal to the king to fight for his money. Bacon. 2. Foreboding death or great disaster. [R.] That fatal screech owl to our house That nothing sung but death to us and ours. Shak. 3. Causing death or destruction; deadly; mortal; destructive; calamitous; as, a fatal wound; a fatal disease; a fatal day; a fatal error. FATALISM Fa"tal*ism, n. Etym: [Cf. F. fatalisme.] Defn: The doctrine that all things are subject to fate, or that they take place by inevitable necessity. FATALIST Fa"tal*ist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. fataliste.] Defn: One who maintains that all things happen by inevitable necessity. FATALISTIC Fa`tal*is"tic, a. Defn: Implying, or partaking of the nature of, fatalism. FATALITY Fa*tal"i*ty, n.;pl. Fatalities. Etym: [L. fatalitas: cf. F. fatalité] 1. The state of being fatal, or proceeding from destiny; invincible necessity, superior to, and independent of, free and rational control. The Stoics held a fatality, and a fixed, unalterable course of events. South. 2. The state of being fatal; tendency to destruction or danger, as if by decree of fate; mortaility. The year sixty-three is conceived to carry with it the most considerable fatality. Ser T. Browne. By a strange fatality men suffer their dissenting. Eikon Basilike. 3. That which is decreed by fate or which is fatal; a fatal event. Dryden. FATALLY Fa"tal*ly, adv. 1. In a manner proceeding from, or determined by, fate. Bentley. 2. In a manner issuing in death or ruin; mortally; destructively; as, fatally deceived or wounded. FATALNESS Fa"tal*ness Defn: , . Quality of being fatal. Johnson. FATA MORGANA Fa"ta Mor*ga"na. Etym: [It.; -- so called because this phenomenon was looked upon as the work of a fairy (It. fata) of the name of Morgána. See Fairy.] Defn: A kind of mirage by which distant objects appear inverted, distorted, displaced, or multiplied. It is noticed particularly at the Straits of Messina, between Calabria and Sicily. FATBACK Fat"back`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: The menhaden. FAT-BRAINED Fat"-brained`, a. Defn: Dull of apprehension. FATE Fate, n. Etym: [L. fatum a prophetic declaration, oracle, what is ordained by the gods, destiny, fate, fr. fari to speak: cf. OF. fat. See Fame, Fable, Ban, and cf. 1st Fay, Fairy.] 1. A fixed decree by which the order of things is prescribed; the immutable law of the universe; inevitable necessity; the force by which all existence is determined and conditioned. Necessity and chance Approach not me; and what I will is fate. Milton. Beyond and above the Olympian gods lay the silent, brooding, everlasting fate of which victim and tyrant were alike the instruments. Froude. 2. Appointed lot; allotted life; arranged or predetermined event; destiny; especially, the final lot; doom; ruin; death. The great, th'important day, big with the fate Of Cato and of Rome. Addison. Our wills and fates do so contrary run That our devices still are overthrown. Shak. The whizzing arrow sings, And bears thy fate, Antinous, on its wings. Pope. 3. The element of chance in the affairs of life; the unforeseen and unestimated conitions considered as a force shaping events; fortune; esp., opposing circumstances against which it is useless to struggle; as, fate was, or the fates were, against him. A brave man struggling in the storms of fate. Pope. Sometimes an hour of Fate's serenest weather strikes through our changeful sky its coming beams. B. Taylor. 4. pl. Etym: [L. Fata, pl. of fatum.] (Myth.) Defn: The three goddesses, Clotho, Lachesis, and Atropos, sometimes called the Destinies, or Parcæwho were supposed to determine the course of human life. They are represented, one as holding the distaff, a second as spinning, and the third as cutting off the thread. Note: Among all nations it has been common to speak of fate or destiny as a power superior to gods and men -- swaying all things irresistibly. This may be called the fate of poets and mythologists. Philosophical fate is the sum of the laws of the universe, the product of eternal intelligence and the blind properties of matter. Theological fate represents Deity as above the laws of nature, and ordaining all things according to his will -- the expression of that will being the law. Krauth-Fleming. Syn. -- Destiny; lot; doom; fortune; chance. FATED Fat"ed, p. p. & a. 1. Decreed by fate; destined; doomed; as, he was fated to rule a factious people. One midnight Fated to the purpose. Shak. 2. Invested with the power of determining destiny. [Obs.] "The fated sky." Shak. 3. Exempted by fate. [Obs. or R.] Dryden. FATEFUL Fate"ful, a. . Defn: Having the power of serving or accomplishing fate. "The fateful steel." J. Barlow. 2. Significant of fate; ominous. The fateful cawings of the crow. Longfellow. -- Fate"ful*ly, adv.- Fate"ful*ness, n. FATHEAD Fat"head`, n. (Zoöl.) (a) A cyprinoid fish of the Mississippi valley (Pimephales promelas); -- called also black-headed minnow. (b) A labroid food fish of California; the redfish. FATHER Fa"ther, n. Etym: [OE. fader, AS. fæder; akin to OS. fadar, D. vader, OHG. fatar, G. vater, Icel. Fa Sw. & Dan. fader, OIr. athir, L. pater, Gr. pitr, perh. fr. Skr. pa protect. Papa, Paternal, Patriot, Potential, Pablum.] 1. One who has begotten a child, whether son or daughter; a generator; a male parent. A wise son maketh a glad father. Prov. x. 1. 2. A male ancestor more remote than a parent; a progenitor; especially, a first ancestor; a founder of a race or family; -- in the plural, fathers, ancestors. David slept with his fathers. 1 Kings ii. 10. Abraham, who is the father of us all. Rom. iv. 16. 3. One who performs the offices of a parent by maintenance, affetionate care, counsel, or protection. I was a father to the poor. Job xxix. 16. He hath made me a father to Pharaoh, and lord of all his house. Gen. xiv. 8. 4. A respectful mode of address to an old man. And Joash the king og Israel came down unto him [Elisha], . . . and said, O my father, my father! 2 Kings xiii. 14. 5. A senator of ancient Rome. 6. A dignitary of the church, a superior of a convent, a confessor (called also father confessor), or a priest; also, the eldest member of a profession, or of a legislative assembly, etc. Bless you, good father friar ! Shak. 7. One of the chief esslesiastical authorities of the first centuries after Christ; -- often spoken of collectively as the Fathers; as, the Latin, Greek, or apostolic Fathers. 8. One who, or that which, gives origin; an originator; a producer, author, or contriver; the first to practice any art, profession, or occupation; a distinguished example or teacher. The father of all such as handle the harp and organ. Gen. iv. 21. Might be the father, Harry, to that thought. Shak. The father of good news. Shak. 9. The Supreme Being and Creator; God; in theology, the first person