[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

taken towards the nomination of candidates, etc. See Caucus. -- Primary pinna (Bot.), one of those portions of a compound leaf or frond which branch off directly from the main rhachis or stem, whether simple or compounded. -- Primary planets. (Astron.) See the Note under Planet. -- Primary qualities of bodies, such are essential to and inseparable from them. -- Primary quills (Zoöl.), the largest feathers of the wing of a bird; primaries. -- Primary rocks (Geol.), a term early used for rocks supposed to have been first formed, being crystalline and containing no organic remains, as granite, gneiss, etc.; -- called also primitive rocks. The terms Secondary, Tertiary, and Quaternary rocks have also been used in like manner, but of these the last two only are now in use. -- Primary salt (Chem.), a salt derived from a polybasic acid in which only one acid hydrogen atom has been replaced by a base or basic radical. -- Primary syphilis (Med.), the initial stage of syphilis, including the period from the development of the original lesion or chancre to the first manifestation of symptoms indicative of general constitutional infection. -- Primary union (Surg.), union without suppuration; union by the first intention. PRIMARY Pri"ma*ry, n.; pl. Primaries (. 1. That which stands first in order, rank, or importance; a chief matter. 2. A primary meeting; a caucus. 3. (Zoöl.) Defn: One of the large feathers on the distal joint of a bird's wing. See Plumage, and Illust. of Bird. 4. (Astron.) Defn: A primary planet; the brighter component of a double star. See under Planet. PRIMATE Pri"mate, n. Etym: [OE. primat, F. primat, L. primas, -atis one of the first, chief, fr. primus the first. See Prime, a.] 1. The chief ecclesiastic in a national church; one who presides over other bishops in a province; an archbishop. 2. (Zoöl.) Defn: One of the Primates. PRIMATES Pri*ma"tes, n. pl. Etym: [NL.] (Zoöl.) Defn: The highest order of mammals. It includes man, together with the apes and monkeys. Cf. Pitheci. PRIMATESHIP Pri"mate*ship, n. Defn: The office, dignity, or position of a primate; primacy. PRIMATIAL Pri*ma"tial, a. Etym: [Cf. F. primatial.] Defn: Primatical. [R.] D'Anville (Trans. ). PRIMATICAL Pri*mat"ic*al, a. Defn: Of or pertaining to a primate. Barrow. PRIME Prime, a. Etym: [F., fr. L. primus first, a superl. corresponding to the compar. prior former. See Prior, a., Foremost, Former, and cf. Prim, a., Primary, Prince.] 1. First in order of time; original; primeval; primitive; primary. "Prime forests." Tennyson. She was not the prime cause, but I myself. Milton. Note: In this sense the word is nearly superseded by primitive, except in the phrase prime cost. 2. First in rank, degree, dignity, authority, or importance; as, prime minister. "Prime virtues." Dryden. 3. First in excellence; of highest quality; as, prime wheat; a prime quality of cloth. 4. Early; blooming; being in the first stage. [Poetic] His starry helm, unbuckled, showed him prime In manhood where youth ended. Milton. 5. Lecherous; lustful; lewd. [Obs.] Shak. 6. Marked or distinguished by a mark (') called a prime mark. Prime and ultimate ratio. (Math.). See Ultimate. -- Prime conductor. (Elec.) See under Conductor. -- Prime factor (Arith.), a factor which is a prime number. -- Prime figure (Geom.), a figure which can not be divided into any other figure more simple than itself, as a triangle, a pyramid, etc. -- Prime meridian (Astron.), the meridian from which longitude is reckoned, as the meridian of Greenwich or Washington. -- Prime minister, the responsible head of a ministry or executive government; applied particularly to that of England. -- Prime mover. (Mech.) (a) A natural agency applied by man to the production of power. Especially: Muscular force; the weight and motion of fluids, as water and air; heat obtained by chemical combination, and applied to produce changes in the volume and pressure of steam, air, or other fluids; and electricity, obtained by chemical action, and applied to produce alternation of magnetic force. (b) An engine, or machine, the object of which is to receive and modify force and motion as supplied by some natural source, and apply them to drive other machines; as a water wheel, a water- pressure engine, a steam engine, a hot-air engine, etc. (c) Fig.: The original or the most effective force in any undertaking or work; as, Clarkson was the prime mover in English antislavery agitation. -- Prime number (Arith.), a number which is exactly divisible by no number except itself or unity, as 5, 7, 11. -- Prime vertical (Astron.), the vertical circle which passes through the east and west points of the horizon. -- Prime-vertical dial, a dial in which the shadow is projected on the plane of the prime vertical. -- Prime-vertical transit instrument, a transit instrument the telescope of which revolves in the plane of the prime vertical, -- used for observing the transit of stars over this circle. PRIME Prime, n. 1. The first part; the earliest stage; the beginning or opening, as of the day, the year, etc.; hence, the dawn; the spring. Chaucer. In the very prime of the world. Hooker. Hope waits upon the flowery prime. Waller. 2. The spring of life; youth; hence, full health, strength, or beauty; perfection. "Cut off in their prime." Eustace. "The prime of youth." Dryden. 3. That which is first in quantity; the most excellent portion; the best part. Give him always of the prime. Swift. 4. Etym: [F. prime, LL. prima (sc. hora). See Prime, a.] Defn: The morning; specifically (R. C. Ch.), the first canonical hour, succeeding to lauds. Early and late it rung, at evening and at prime. Spenser. Note: Originally, prime denoted the first quarter of the artificial day, reckoned from 6 a. m. to 6 p. m. Afterwards, it denoted the end of the first quarter, that is, 9 a. a. Specifically, it denoted the first canonical hour, as now. Chaucer uses it in all these senses, and also in the sense of def. 1, above. They sleep till that it was pryme large. Chaucer. 5. (Fencing) Defn: The first of the chief guards. 6. (Chem.) Defn: Any number expressing the combining weight or equivalent of any particular element; -- so called because these numbers were respectively reduced to their lowest relative terms on the fixed standard of hydrogen as 1. [Obs. or Archaic] 7. (Arith.) Defn: A prime number. See under Prime, a. 8. An inch, as composed of twelve seconds in the duodecimal system; - - denoted by [']. See 2d Inch, n., 1. Prime of the moon, the new moon at its first appearance. PRIME Prime, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Primed; p. pr. & vb. n. Priming.] Etym: [From Prime, a.] 1. To apply priming to, as a musket or a cannon; to apply a primer to, as a metallic cartridge. 2. To lay the first color, coating, or preparation upon (a surface), as in painting; as, to prime a canvas, a wall. 3. To prepare; to make ready; to instruct beforehand; to post; to coach; as, to prime a witness; the boys are primed for mischief. [Colloq.] Thackeray. 4. To trim or prune, as trees. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] 5. (Math.) Defn: To mark with a prime mark. To prime a pump, to charge a pump with water, in order to put it in working condition. PRIME Prime, v. i. 1. To be renewed, or as at first. [Obs.] Night's bashful empress, though she often wane, As oft repeats her darkness, primes again. Quarles . 2. To serve as priming for the charge of a gun. 3. To work so that foaming occurs from too violent ebullition, which causes water to become mixed with, and be carried along with, the steam that is formed; -- said of a steam boiler. PRIMELY Prime"ly, adv. 1. At first; primarily. [Obs.] South. 2. In a prime manner; excellently. PRIMENESS Prime"ness, n. 1. The quality or state of being first. 2. The quality or state of being prime, or excellent. PRIMER Prim"er, n. Defn: One who, or that which, primes; specifically, an instrument or device for priming; esp., a cap, tube, or water containing percussion powder or other capable for igniting a charge of gunpowder. PRIMER Prim"er, a. Etym: [OF. primer, primier, premier, F. premier. See Premier.] Defn: First; original; primary. [Obs.] "The primer English kings." Drayton. Primer fine (O. Eng. Law), a fine due to the king on the writ or commencement of a suit by fine. Blackstone. -- Primer seizin (Feudal Law), the right of the king, when a tenant in capite died seized of a knight's fee, to receive of the heir, if of full age, one year's profits of the land if in possession, and half a year's profits if the land was in reversion expectant on an estate for life; -- now abolished. Blackstone. PRIMER Prim"er, n. Etym: [Originally, the book read at prime, the first canonical hour. LL. primae liber. See Prime, n., 4.] 1. Originally, a small