[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

Shak. BATTALION Bat*tal"ion, n. Etym: [F. bataillon, fr. It. battaglione. See Battalia.] 1. A body of troops; esp. a body of troops or an army in battle array. "The whole battalion views." Milton. 2. (Mil.) Defn: A regiment, or two or more companies of a regiment, esp. when assembled for drill or battle. BATTALION Bat*tal"ion, v. t. Defn: To form into battalions. [R.] BATTEL Bat"tel, n. Etym: [Obs. form. of Battle.] (Old Eng. Law) Defn: A single combat; as, trial by battel. See Wager of battel, under Wager. BATTEL Bat"tel, n. Etym: [Of uncertain etymology.] Defn: Provisions ordered from the buttery; also, the charges for them; -- only in the pl., except when used adjectively. [Univ. of Oxford, Eng.] BATTEL Bat"tel, v. i. Defn: To be supplied with provisions from the buttery. [Univ. of Oxford, Eng.] BATTEL Bat"tel, v. t. Etym: [Cf. Batful, Batten, v. i.] Defn: To make fertile. [Obs.] "To battel barren land." Ray. BATTEL Bat"tel, a. Defn: Fertile; fruitful; productive. [Obs.] A battel soil for grain, for pasture good. Fairfax. BATTELER; BATTLER Bat"tel*er, Bat"tler, n. Etym: [See 2d Battel, n.] Defn: A student at Oxford who is supplied with provisions from the buttery; formerly, one who paid for nothing but what he called for, answering nearly to a sizar at Cambridge. Wright. BATTEN Bat"ten, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Battened (p. pr. & vb. n. Battening.] Etym: [See Batful.] 1. To make fat by plenteous feeding; to fatten. "Battening our flocks." Milton. 2. To fertilize or enrich, as land. BATTEN Bat"ten, v. i. Defn: To grow fat; to grow fat in ease and luxury; to glut one's self. Dryden. The pampered monarch lay battening in ease. Garth. Skeptics, with a taste for carrion, who batten on the hideous facts in history, -- persecutions, inquisitions. Emerson. BATTEN Bat"ten, n . Etym: [F. b stick, staff. See Baton.] Defn: A strip of sawed stuff, or a scantling; as, (a) pl. (Com. & Arch.) Sawed timbers about 7 by 2 1/2 inches and not less than 6 feet long. Brande & C. (b) (Naut.) A strip of wood used in fastening the edges of a tarpaulin to the deck, also around masts to prevent chafing. (c) A long, thin strip used to strengthen a part, to cover a crack, etc. Batten door (Arch.), a door made of boards of the whole length of the door, secured by battens nailed crosswise. BATTEN Bat"ten, v. t. Defn: To furnish or fasten with battens. To batten down, to fasten down with battens, as the tarpaulin over the hatches of a ship during a storm. BATTEN Bat"ten, n. Etym: [F. battant. See Batter, v. t.] Defn: The movable bar of a loom, which strikes home or closes the threads of a woof. BATTENING Bat"ten*ing, n. (Arch.) Defn: Furring done with small pieces nailed directly upon the wall. BATTER Bat"ter, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Battered (; p. pr. & vb. n. Battering.] Etym: [OE. bateren, OF. batre, F. battre, fr. LL. battere, for L. batuere to strike, beat; of unknown origin. Cf. Abate, Bate to abate.] 1. To beat with successive blows; to beat repeatedly and with violence, so as to bruise, shatter, or demolish; as, to batter a wall or rampart. 2. To wear or impair as if by beating or by hard usage. "Each battered jade." Pope. 3. (Metallurgy) Defn: To flatten (metal) by hammering, so as to compress it inwardly and spread it outwardly. BATTER Bat"ter, n. Etym: [OE. batere, batire; cf. OF. bateure, bature, a beating. See Batter, v. t.] 1. A semi-liquid mixture of several ingredients, as, flour, eggs, milk, etc. , beaten together and used in cookery. King. 2. Paste of clay or loam. Holland. 3. (Printing) Defn: A bruise on the face of a plate or of type in the form. BATTER Bat"ter, n. Defn: A backward slope in the face of a wall or of a bank; receding slope. Batter rule, an instrument consisting of a rule or frame, and a plumb line, by which the batter or slope of a wall is regulated in building. BATTER Bat"ter, v. i. (Arch.) Defn: To slope gently backward. BATTER Bat"ter, n. Defn: One who wields a bat; a batsman. BATTERER Bat"ter*er, n. Defn: One who, or that which, batters. BATTERING-RAM Bat"ter*ing-ram`, n. Defn: 1. (Mil.) An engine used in ancient times to beat down the walls of besieged places. Note: It was a large beam, with a head of iron, which was sometimes made to resemble the head of a ram. It was suspended by ropes t a beam supported by posts, and so balanced as to swing backward and forward, and was impelled by men against the wall. Grose. 2. A blacksmith's hammer, suspended, and worked horizontally. BATTERING TRAIN Bat"ter*ing train`. (Mil.) Defn: A train of artillery for siege operations. BATTERY Bat"ter*y, n.; pl. Batteries. Etym: [F. batterie, fr. battre. See Batter, v. t.] 1. The act of battering or beating. 2. (Law) Defn: The unlawful beating of another. It includes every willful, angry and violent, or negligent touching of another's person or clothes, or anything attached to his person or held by him. 3. (Mil.) (a) Any place where cannon or mortars are mounted, for attack or defense. (b) Two or more pieces of artillery in the field. (c) A company or division of artillery, including the gunners, guns, horses, and all equipments. In the United States, a battery of flying artillery consists usually of six guns. Barbette battery. See Barbette. -- Battery d'enfilade, or Enfilading battery, one that sweeps the whole length of a line of troops or part of a work. -- Battery en écharpe, one that plays obliquely. -- Battery gun, a gun capable of firing a number, of shots simultaneously or successively without stopping to load. -- Battery wagon, a wagon employed to transport the tools and materials for repair of the carriages, etc., of the battery. -- In battery, projecting, as a gun, into an embrasure or over a parapet in readiness for firing. -- Masked battery, a battery artificially concealed until required to open upon the enemy. -- Out of battery, or From battery, withdrawn, as a gun, to a position for loading. 4. (Elec.) (a) A number of coated jars (Leyden jars) so connected that they may be charged and discharged simultaneously. (b) An apparatus for generating voltaic electricity. Note: In the trough battery, copper and zinc plates, connected in pairs, divide the trough into cells, which are filled with an acid or oxidizing liquid; the effect is exhibited when wires connected with the two end-plates are brought together. In Daniell's battery, the metals are zinc and copper, the former in dilute sulphuric acid, or a solution of sulphate of zinc, the latter in a saturated solution of sulphate of copper. A modification of this is the common gravity battery, so called from the automatic action of the two fluids, which are separated by their specific gravities. In Grove's battery, platinum is the metal used with zinc; two fluids are used, one of them in a porous cell surrounded by the other. In Bunsen's or the carbon battery, the carbon of gas coke is substituted for the platinum of Grove's. In Leclanché's battery, the elements are zinc in a solution of ammonium chloride, and gas carbon surrounded with manganese dioxide in a porous cell. A secondary battery is a battery which usually has the two plates of the same kind, generally of lead, in dilute sulphuric acid, and which, when traversed by an electric current, becomes charged, and is then capable of giving a current of itself for a time, owing to chemical changes produced by the charging current. A storage battery is a kind of secondary battery used for accumulating and storing the energy of electrical charges or currents, usually by means of chemical work done by them; an accumulator. 5. A number of similar machines or devices in position; an apparatus consisting of a set of similar parts; as, a battery of boilers, of retorts, condensers, etc. 6. (Metallurgy) Defn: A series of stamps operated by one motive power, for crushing ores containing the precious metals. Knight. 7. The box in which the stamps for crushing ore play up and down. 8. (Baseball) Defn: The pitcher and catcher together. BATTING Bat"ting, n. 1. The act of one who bats; the management of a bat in playing games of ball. Mason. 2. Cotton in sheets, prepared for use in making quilts, etc.; as, cotton batting. BATTLE Bat"tle, a. Defn: Fertile. See Battel, a. [Obs.] BATTLE Bat"tle, n. Etym: [OE. bataille, bataile, F. bataille battle, OF., battle, battalion, fr. L. battalia, battualia, the fighting and fencing exercises of soldiers and gladiators, fr. batuere to strike, beat. Cf. Battalia, 1st Battel, and see Batter, v. t. ] 1. A general action, fight, or encounter, in which all the divisions of an army are or may be engaged; an engagement; a combat. 2. A struggle; a contest; as, the