[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

when beginning to walk. -- To be in leading strings, to be in a state of infancy or dependence, or under the guidance of others. -- Leading wheel, a wheel situated before the driving wheels of a locomotive engine. LEADING Lead"ing, n. 1. The act of guiding, directing, governing, or enticing; guidance. Shak. 2. Suggestion; hint; example. [Archaic] Bacon. LEADING EDGE Lead"ing edge. (Aëronautics) Defn: same as Advancing edge, above. LEADMAN Lead"man, n.; pl. Leadmen (. Defn: One who leads a dance.[Obs.] B. Jonson. LEADSMAN Leads"man, n.; pl. Leadsmen (. (Naut.) Defn: The man who heaves the lead. Totten. LEADWORT Lead"wort`, n. (Bot.) Defn: A genus of maritime herbs (Plumbago). P. Europæa has lead- colored spots on the leaves, and nearly lead-colored flowers. LEADY Lead"y, a. Defn: Resembling lead. Sir T. Elyot. LEAF Leaf, n.; pl. Leaves. Etym: [OE. leef, lef, leaf, AS. leáf; akin to S. l, OFries. laf, D. loof foliage, G. laub,OHG. loub leaf, foliage, Icel. lauf, Sw. löf, Dan. löv, Goth. laufs; cf. Lith. lapas. Cf. Lodge.] 1. (Bot.) Defn: A colored, usually green, expansion growing from the side of a stem or rootstock, in which the sap for the use of the plant is elaborated under the influence of light; one of the parts of a plant which collectively constitute its foliage. Note: Such leaves usually consist of a blade, or lamina , supported upon a leafstalk or petiole, which, continued through the blade as the midrib, gives off woody ribs and veins that support the cellular texture. The petiole has usually some sort of an appendage on each side of its base, which is called the stipule. The green parenchyma of the leaf is covered with a thin epiderm pierced with closable microscopic openings, known as stomata. 2. (Bot.) Defn: A special organ of vegetation in the form of a lateral outgrowth from the stem, whether appearing as a part of the foliage, or as a cotyledon, a scale, a bract, a spine, or a tendril. Note: In this view every part of a plant, except the root and the stem, is either a leaf, or is composed of leaves more or less modified and transformed. 3. Something which is like a leaf in being wide and thin and having a flat surface, or in being attached to a larger body by one edge or end; as : (a) A part of a book or folded sheet containing two pages upon its opposite sides. (b) A side, division, or part, that slides or is hinged, as of window shutters, folding doors, etc. (c) The movable side of a table. (d) A very thin plate; as, gold leaf. (e) A portion of fat lying in a separate fold or layer. (f) One of the teeth of a pinion, especially when small. Leaf beetle (Zoöl.), any beetle which feeds upon leaves; esp., any species of the family Chrysomelidæ, as the potato beetle and helmet beetle. -- Leaf bridge, a draw-bridge having a platform or leaf which swings vertically on hinges. -- Leaf bud (Bot.), a bud which develops into leaves or a leafy branch. -- Leaf butterfly (Zoöl.), any butterfly which, in the form and colors of its wings, resembles the leaves of plants upon which it rests; esp., butterflies of the genus Kallima, found in Southern Asia and the East Indies. -- Leaf crumpler (Zoöl.), a small moth (Phycis indigenella), the larva of which feeds upon leaves of the apple tree, and forms its nest by crumpling and fastening leaves together in clusters. -- Leaf cutter (Zoöl.) , any one of various species of wild bees of the genus Megachile, which cut rounded pieces from the edges of leaves, or the petals of flowers, to be used in the construction of their nests, which are made in holes and crevices, or in a leaf rolled up for the purpose. Among the common American species are M. brevis and M. centuncularis. Called also rose-cutting bee. -- Leaf fat, the fat which lies in leaves or layers within the body of an animal. -- Leaf flea (Zoöl.), a jumping plant louse of the family Psyllidæ. -- Leaf frog (Zoöl.), any tree frog of the genus Phyllomedusa. -- Leaf green.(Bot.) See Chlorophyll. -- Leaf hopper (Zoöl.), any small jumping hemipterous insect of the genus Tettigonia, and allied genera. They live upon the leaves and twigs of plants. See Live hopper. -- Leaf insect (Zoöl.), any one of several genera and species of orthopterous insects, esp. of the genus Phyllium, in which the wings, and sometimes the legs, resemble leaves in color and form. They are common in Southern Asia and the East Indies. -- Leaf lard, lard from leaf fat. See under Lard. -- Leaf louse (Zoöl.), an aphid. -- Leaf metal, metal in thin leaves, as gold, silver, or tin. -- Leaf miner (Zoöl.), any one of various small lepidopterous and dipterous insects, which, in the larval stages, burrow in and eat the parenchyma of leaves; as, the pear-tree leaf miner (Lithocolletis geminatella). -- Leaf notcher (Zoöl.), a pale bluish green beetle (Artipus Floridanus), which, in Florida, eats the edges of the leaves of orange trees. -- Leaf roller (Zoöl.), the larva of any tortricid moth which makes a nest by rolling up the leaves of plants. See Tortrix. -- Leaf scar (Bot.), the cicatrix on a stem whence a leaf has fallen. -- Leaf sewer (Zoöl.), a tortricid moth, whose caterpillar makes a nest by rolling up a leaf and fastening the edges together with silk, as if sewn; esp., Phoxopteris nubeculana, which feeds upon the apple tree. -- Leaf sight, a hinges sight on a firearm, which can be raised or folded down. -- Leaf trace (Bot.), one or more fibrovascular bundles, which may be traced down an endogenous stem from the base of a leaf. -- Leaf tier (Zoöl.), a tortricid moth whose larva makes a nest by fastening the edges of a leaf together with silk; esp., Teras cinderella, found on the apple tree. -- Leaf valve, a valve which moves on a hinge. -- Leaf wasp (Zoöl.), a sawfiy. -- To turn over a new leaf, to make a radical change for the better in one's way of living or doing. [Colloq.] They were both determined to turn over a new leaf. Richardson. LEAF Leaf, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Leafed; p. pr. & vb. n. Leafing.] Defn: To shoot out leaves; to produce leaves; to leave; as, the trees leaf in May. Sir T. Browne. LEAFAGE Leaf"age, n. Defn: Leaves, collectively; foliage. LEAFCUP Leaf"cup`, n. (Bot.) Defn: A coarse American composite weed (Polymnia Uvedalia). LEAFED Leafed, a. Defn: Having (such) a leaf or (so many) leaves; -- used in composition; as, broad-leafed; four-leafed. LEAFET Leaf"et, n. (Bot.) Defn: A leaflet. LEAF-FOOTED Leaf"-foot`ed, a. (Zoöl.) Defn: Having leaflike expansions on the legs; -- said of certain insects; as, the leaf-footed bug (Leptoglossus phyllopus). LEAFINESS Leaf"i*ness, n. Defn: The state of being leafy. LEAFLESS Leaf"less, a. Defn: Having no leaves or foliage; bearing no foliage. "Leafless groves." Cowper. -- Leaf"less*ness, n. Leafless plants, plants having no foliage, though leaves may be present in the form of scales and bracts. See Leaf, n., 1 and 2. LEAFLET Leaf"let, n. 1. A little leaf; also, a little printed leaf or a tract. 2. (Bot.) Defn: One of the divisions of a compound leaf; a foliole. 3. (Zoöl.) Defn: A leaflike organ or part; as, a leaflet of the gills of fishes. LEAF-NOSED Leaf"-nosed`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: Having a leaflike membrane on the nose; -- said of certain bats, esp. of the genera Phyllostoma and Rhinonycteris. See Vampire. LEAFSTALK Leaf"stalk`, n. (Bot.) Defn: The stalk or petiole which supports a leaf. LEAFY Leaf"y, a. [Compar. Leafier; superl. Leafiest.] 1. Full of leaves; abounding in leaves; as, the leafy forest. "The leafy month of June." Coleridge. 2. Consisting of leaves. "A leafy bed." Byron. LEAGUE League, n. Etym: [Cf. OE. legue, lieue, a measure of length, F. lieue, Pr. lega, legua, It. & LL. lega, Sp. legua, Pg. legoa, legua; all fr. LL. leuca, of Celtic origin: cf. Arm. leo, lev (perh. from French), Ir.leige (perh. from English); also Ir. & Gael. leac a flag, a broad, flat stone, W. llech, -- such stones having perh. served as a sort of milestone (cf. Cromlech).] 1. A measure of length or distance, varying in different countries from about 2.4 to 4.6 English statute miles of 5.280 feet each, and used (as a land measure) chiefly on the continent of Europe, and in the Spanish parts of America. The marine league of England and the United States is equal to three marine, or geographical, miles of 6080 feet each. Note: The English land league is equal to three English statute miles. The Spanish and French leagues vary in each country according to usage and the kind of measurement to which they are applied. The Dutch and German leagues contain about four geographical miles, or about 4.6 English statute