[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

vb. n. Stating.] 1. To set; to settle; to establish. [R.] I myself, though meanest stated, And in court now almost hated. Wither. Who calls the council, states the certain day. Pope. 2. To express the particulars of; to set down in detail or in gross; to represent fully in words; to narrate; to recite; as, to state the facts of a case, one's opinion, etc. To state it. To assume state or dignity. [Obs.] "Rarely dressed up, and taught to state it." Beau. & Fl. STATE State, n. Defn: A statement; also, a document containing a statement. [R.] Sir W. Scott. STATECRAFT State"craft`, n. Defn: The art of conducting state affairs; state management; statesmanship. STATED Stat"ed, a. 1. Settled; established; fixed. He is capable of corruption who receives more than what is the stated and unquestionable fee of his office. Addison. 2. Recurring at regular time; not occasional; as, stated preaching; stated business hours. STATEDLY Stat"ed*ly, adv. Defn: At stated times; regularly. STATEFUL State"ful, a. Defn: Full of state; stately. [Obs.] "A stateful silence." Marston. STATEHOOD State"hood, n. Defn: The condition of being a State; as, a territory seeking Statehood. STATEHOUSE State"house`, n. Defn: The building in which a State legislature holds its sessions; a State capitol. [U. S.] STATELESS State"less, a. Defn: Without state or pomp. STATELILY State"li*ly, adv. Defn: In a stately manner. STATELINESS State"li*ness, n. Defn: The quality or state of being stately. For stateliness and majesty, what is comparable to a horse Dr. H. More. STATELY State"ly, a. [Compar. Statelier; superl. Stateliest.] Defn: Evincing state or dignity; lofty; majestic; grand; as, statelymanners; a stately gait. "The stately homes of England!" Mrs. Hemans. "Filled with stately temples." Prescott. Here is a stately style indeed! Shak. Syn. -- Lofty; dignified; majestic; grand; august; magnificent. STATELY State"ly, adv. Defn: Majestically; loftily. Milton. STATEMENT State"ment, n. 1. The act of stating, reciting, or presenting, orally or in paper; as, to interrupt a speaker in the statement of his case. 2. That which is stated; a formal embodiment in language of facts or opinions; a narrative; a recital. "Admirable perspicuity of statement!" Brougham. STATEMONGER State"mon`ger, n. Defn: One versed in politics, or one who dabbles in state affairs. STATEPRISON State`pris"on. Defn: See under State, n. STATER Stat"er, n. Defn: One who states. STATER Sta"ter, n. Etym: [L. stater, Gr. (Gr. Antiq.) Defn: The principal gold coin of ancient Grece. It varied much in value, the stater best known at Athens being worth about £1 2s., or about $5.35. The Attic silver tetradrachm was in later times called stater. STATEROOM State"room`, n. 1. A magnificent room in a place or great house. 2. A small apartment for lodging or sleeping in the cabin, or on the deck, of a vessel; also, a somewhat similar apartment in a railway sleeping car. STATES-GENERAL States"-gen"er*al, n. 1. In France, before the Revolution, the assembly of the three orders of the kingdom, namely, the clergy, the nobility, and the third estate, or commonalty. 2. In the Netherlands, the legislative body, composed of two chambers. STATESMAN States"man, n.; pl. Statesmen (. 1. A man versed in public affairs and in the principles and art of government; especially, one eminent for political abilities. The minds of some of our statesmen, like the pupil of the human eye, contract themselves the more, the stronger light there is shed upon them. More. 2. One occupied with the affairs of government, and influental in shaping its policy. 3. A small landholder. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. STATESMANLIKE States"man*like`, a. Defn: Having the manner or wisdom of statesmen; becoming a statesman. STATESMANLY States"man*ly, a. Defn: Becoming a statesman. STATESMANSHIP States"man*ship, n. Defn: The qualifications, duties, or employments of a statesman. STATE SOCIALISM State socialism. Defn: A form of socialism, esp. advocated in Germany, which, while retaining the right of private property and the institution of the family and other features of the present form of the state, would intervene by various measures intended to give or maintain equality of opportunity, as compulsory state insurance, old-age pensions, etc., answering closely to socialism of the chair. STATESWOMAN States"wom`an, n.; pl. Stateswomen (. Defn: A woman concerned in public affairs. A rare stateswoman; I admire her bearing. B. Jonson. STATHMOGRAPH Stath"mo*graph, n. Etym: [Gr. -graph.] Defn: A contrivance for recording the speed of a railway train. Knight. STATIC; STATICAL Stat"ic, Stat"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. statique. See Stand, and cf. Stage.] 1. Resting; acting by mere weight without motion; as, statical pressure; static objects. 2. Pertaining to bodies at rest or in equilibrium. Statical electricity. See Note under Electricity, 1. -- Statical moment. See under Moment. STATICALLY Stat"ic*al*ly, adv. Defn: In a statical manner. STATICS Stat"ics, n. Etym: [Cf. F. statique, Gr. Static.] Defn: That branch of mechanics which treats of the equilibrium of forces, or relates to bodies as held at rest by the forces acting on them; -- distinguished from dynamics. Social statics, the study of the conditions which concern the existence and permanence of the social state. STATING Stat"ing, n. Defn: The act of one who states anything; statement; as, the statingof one's opinions. STATION Sta"tion, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. statio, from stare, statum, to stand. See Stand.] 1. The act of standing; also, attitude or pose in standing; posture. [R.] A station like the herald, Mercury. Shak. Their manner was to stand at prayer, whereupon their meetings unto that purpose . . . had the names of stations given them. Hooker. 2. A state of standing or rest; equilibrium. [Obs.] All progression is performed by drawing on or impelling forward some part which was before in station, or at quiet. Sir T. Browne. 3. The spot or place where anything stands, especially where a person or thing habitually stands, or is appointed to remain for a time; as, the station of a sentinel. Specifically: (a) A regular stopping place in a stage road or route; a place where railroad trains regularly come to a stand, for the convenience of passengers, taking in fuel, moving freight, etc. (b) The headquarters of the police force of any precinct. (c) The place at which an instrument is planted, or observations are made, as in surveying. (d) (Biol.) Defn: The particular place, or kind of situation, in which a species naturally occurs; a habitat. (e) (Naut.) Defn: A place to which ships may resort, and where they may anchor safely. (f) A place or region to which a government ship or fleet is assigned for duty. (g) (Mil.) A place calculated for the rendezvous of troops, or for the distribution of them; also, a spot well adapted for offensive measures. Wilhelm (Mil. Dict.). (h) (Mining) An enlargement in a shaft or galley, used as a landing, or passing place, or for the accomodation of a pump, tank, etc. 4. Post assigned; office; the part or department of public duty which a person is appointed to perform; sphere of duty or occupation; employment. By spending this day [Sunday] in religious exercises, we acquire new strength and resolution to perform God's will in our several stations the week following. R. Nelson. 5. Situation; position; location. The fig and date -- why love they to remain In middle station, and an even plain Prior. 6. State; rank; condition of life; social status. The greater part have kept, I see, Their station. Milton. They in France of the best rank and station. Shak. 7. (Eccl.) (a) The fast of the fourth and sixth days of the week, Wednesday and Friday, in memory of the council which condemned Christ, and of his passion. (b) (R. C. Ch.) A church in which the procession of the clergy halts on stated days to say stated prayers. Addis & Arnold. (c) One of the places at which ecclesiastical processions pause for the performance of an act of devotion; formerly, the tomb of a martyr, or some similarly consecrated spot; now, especially, one of those representations of the successive stages of our Lord's passion which are often placed round the naves of large churches and by the side of the way leading to sacred edifices or shrines, and which are visited in rotation, stated services being performed at each; -- called also Station of the cross. Fairholt. Station bill. (Naut.) Same as Quarter bill, under Quarter. -- Station house. (a) The house serving for the headquarters of the police assigned to a certain district, and as a place of temporary confinement. (b) The house used as a shelter at a railway station. -- Station master, one who has charge of a station, esp. of a railway station. -- Station pointer (Surv.), an instrument for locating on a chart the position of a place from which the angles subtended by three distant objects, whose positions are known, have been observed. -- Station staff (Surv.), an instrument for taking angles in surveying. Craig. Syn. -- Station, Depot. In the United States, a stopping place on a railway for passengers and freight is commonly called a depot: but