[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

de panier surbased arch, flat arch, vault, and E. haunch hip.] (Arch.) Defn: That part of an elliptical or many-centered arch which has the shorter radius and immediately adjoins the impost. HANSE Hanse, n. Etym: [G. hanse, or F. hanse (from German), OHG. & Goth. hansa; akin to AS. h band, troop.] Defn: An association; a league or confederacy. Hanse towns (Hist.), certain commercial cities in Germany which associated themselves for the protection and enlarging of their commerce. The confederacy, called also Hansa and Hanseatic league, held its first diet in 1260, and was maintained for nearly four hundred years. At one time the league comprised eighty-five cities. Its remnants, Lübeck, Hamburg, and Bremen, are free cities, and are still frequently called Hanse towns. HANSEATIC Han`se*at"ic, a. Defn: Pertaining to the Hanse towns, or to their confederacy. Hanseatic league. See under 2d Hanse. HANSEL Han"sel, n. & v. Defn: See Handsel. HANSELINES Han"sel*ines, n. Defn: A sort of breeches. [Obs..] Chaucer. HANSOM; HANSOM CAB Han"som, n., Han"som cab` (. Etym: [From the name of the inventor.] Defn: A light, low, two-wheeled covered carriage with the driver's seat elevated behind, the reins being passed over the top. He hailed a cruising hansom . . . " 'Tis the gondola of London," said Lothair. Beaconsfield. HAN'T; HAIN'T Han't. Defn: A contraction of have not, or has not, used in illiterate speech. In the United States the commoner spelling is hain't. HANUKKA; HANUKKAH Ha"nuk*ka, or Ha"nuk*kah, n. [Heb. khanukkah.] Defn: The Jewish Feast of the Dedication, instituted by Judas Maccabæus, his brothers, and the whole congregation of Israel, in 165 b. c., to commemorate the dedication of the new altar set up at the purification of the temple of Jerusalem to replace the altar which had been polluted by Antiochus Epiphanes (1 Maccabees i. 58, iv. 59). The feast, which is mentioned in John x. 22, is held for eight days (beginning with the 25th day of Kislev, corresponding to December), and is celebrated everywhere, chiefly as a festival of lights, by the Jews. HANUMAN Han"u*man, n. Defn: See Hoonoomaun. HAP Hap, v. t. Etym: [OE.happen.] Defn: To clothe; to wrap. The surgeon happed her up carefully. Dr. J. Brown. HAP Hap, n. Etym: [Cf. Hap to clothe.] Defn: A cloak or plaid. [O. Eng. & Scot.] HAP Hap, n. Etym: [Icel. happ unexpected good luck. Defn: That which happens or comes suddenly or unexpectedly; also, the manner of occurrence or taking place; chance; fortune; accident; casual event; fate; luck; lot. Chaucer. Whether art it was or heedless hap. Spenser. Cursed be good haps, and cursed be they that build Their hopes on haps. Sir P. Sidney. Loving goes by haps: Some Cupid kills with arrows, some with traps. Shak. HAP Hap, v. i. Etym: [OE. happen. See Hap chance, and cf. Happen.] Defn: To happen; to befall; to chance. Chaucer. Sends word of all that haps in Tyre. Shak. HA'PENNY; HAP'PENNY Hap'"pen*ny, n. Defn: A half-penny. HAPHAZARD Hap"haz`ard, n. Etym: [Hap + hazard.] Defn: Extra hazard; chance; accident; random. We take our principles at haphazard, upon trust. Locke. HAPHTARAH Haph*ta"rah, n.; pl. -taroth (#). [Heb. haphtarah, prop., valedictory, fr. patar to depart.] Defn: One of the lessons from the Nebiim (or Prophets) read in the Jewish synagogue on Sabbaths, feast days, fasts, and the ninth of Ab, at the end of the service, after the parashoth, or lessons from the Law. Such a practice is evidenced in Luke iv.17 and Acts xiii.15. HAPLESS Hap"less, a. Defn: Without hap or luck; luckless; unfortunate; unlucky; unhappy; as, hapless youth; hapless maid. Dryden. HAPLESSLY Hap"less*ly, adv. Defn: In a hapless, unlucky manner. HAPLOMI Ha*plo"mi, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.) Defn: An order of freshwater fishes, including the true pikes, cyprinodonts, and blindfishes. HAPLOSTEMONOUS Hap`lo*stem"o*nous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.) Defn: Having but one series of stamens, and that equal in number to the proper number of petals; isostemonous. HAPLY Hap"ly, adv. Defn: By hap, chance, luck, or accident; perhaps; it may be. Lest haply ye be found even to fight against God. Acts v. 39. HAPPED Happed, p. a. Etym: [From 1st Hap.] Defn: Wrapped; covered; cloaked. [Scot.] All happed with flowers in the green wood were. Hogg. HAPPEN Hap"pen, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Happened; p. pr. & vb. n. Happening.] Etym: [OE. happenen, hapnen. See Hap to happen.] 1. To come by chance; to come without previous expectation; to fall out. There shall no evil happen to the just. Prov. xii. 21. 2. To take place; to occur. All these things which had happened. Luke xxiv. 14. To happen on, to meet with; to fall or light upon. "I have happened on some other accounts." Graunt. -- To happen in, to make a casual call. [Colloq.] HAPPILY Hap"pi*ly, adv. Etym: [From Happy.] 1. By chance; peradventure; haply. [Obs.] Piers Plowman. 2. By good fortune; fortunately; luckily. Preferred by conquest, happily o'erthrown. Waller. 3. In a happy manner or state; in happy circumstances; as, he lived happily with his wife. 4. With address or dexterity; gracefully; felicitously; in a manner to success; with success. Formed by thy converse, happily to steer From grave to gay, from lively to severe. Pope. Syn. -- Fortunately; luckily; successfully; prosperously; contentedly; dexterously; felicitously. HAPPINESS Hap"pi*ness, n. Etym: [From Happy.] 1. Good luck; good fortune; prosperity. All happiness bechance to thee in Milan! Shak. 2. An agreeable feeling or condition of the soul arising from good fortune or propitious happening of any kind; the possession of those circumstances or that state of being which is attended enjoyment; the state of being happy; contentment; joyful satisfaction; felicity; blessedness. 3. Fortuitous elegance; unstudied grace; -- used especially of language. Some beauties yet no precepts can declare, For there's a happiness, as well as care. Pope. Syn. -- Happiness, Felicity, Blessedness, Bliss. Happiness is generic, and is applied to almost every kind of enjoyment except that of the animal appetites; felicity is a more formal word, and is used more sparingly in the same general sense, but with elevated associations; blessedness is applied to the most refined enjoyment arising from the purest social, benevolent, and religious affections; bliss denotes still more exalted delight, and is applied more appropriately to the joy anticipated in heaven. O happiness! our being's end and aim! Pope. Others in virtue place felicity, But virtue joined with riches and long life; In corporal pleasures he, and careless ease. Milton. His overthrow heaped happiness upon him; For then, and not till then, he felt himself, And found the blessedness of being little. Shak. HAPPY Hap"py, a. [Compar. Happier; superl. Happiest.] Etym: [From Hap chance.] 1. Favored by hap, luck, or fortune; lucky; fortunate; successful; prosperous; satisfying desire; as, a happy expedient; a happy effort; a happy venture; a happy omen. Chymists have been more happy in finding experiments than the causes of them. Boyle. 2. Experiencing the effect of favorable fortune; having the feeling arising from the consciousness of well-being or of enjoyment; enjoying good of any kind, as peace, tranquillity, comfort; contented; joyous; as, happy hours, happy thoughts. Happy is that people, whose God is the Lord. Ps. cxliv. 15. The learned is happy Nature to explore, The fool is happy that he knows no more. Pope. 3. Dexterous; ready; apt; felicitous. One gentleman is happy at a reply, another excels in a in a rejoinder. Swift. Happy family, a collection of animals of different and hostile propensities living peaceably together in one cage. Used ironically of conventional alliances of persons who are in fact mutually repugnant. -- Happy-go-lucky, trusting to hap or luck; improvident; easy-going. "Happy-go-lucky carelessness." W. Black. HAPUKU Ha*pu"ku, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: A large and valuable food fish (Polyprion prognathus) of New Zealand. It sometimes weighs one hundred pounds or more. HAQUEBUT Haque"but, n. Defn: See Hagbut. HARA-KIRI Ha"ra-ki`ri, n. Etym: [Jap., stomach cutting.] Defn: Suicide, by slashing the abdomen, formerly practiced in Japan, and commanded by the government in the cases of disgraced officials; disembowelment; -- also written, but incorrectly, hari-kari. W. E. Griffis. HARANGUE Ha*rangue", n. Etym: [F. harangue: cf. Sp. arenda, It. aringa; lit., a speech before a multitude or on the hustings, It. aringo arena, hustings, pulpit; all fr. OHG. hring ring, anything round, ring of people, G. ring. See Ring.] Defn: A speech addressed to a large public assembly; a popular oration; a loud address a multitude; in a bad sense, a noisy or pompous speech; declamation; ranting. Gray-headed men and grave, with warriors mixed, Assemble, and harangues are heard. Milton. Syn. -- Harangue, Speech, Oration. Speech is generic; an oration is an elaborate and rhetorical speech; an harangue is a vehement appeal to the passions, or a noisy, disputatious address. A general makes an harangue to his troops on the eve of a battle; a demagogue harangues the populace on the subject of their wrongs. HARANGUE Ha*rangue", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Harangued; p. pr. & vb. n. Haranguing.] Etym: [Cf. F. haranguer, It. aringare.] Defn: