[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

with the proceedings or movements of the court generally, supplied to the newspapers by an officer specially charged with such duty. [Eng.] Edwards. -- Court day, a day on which a court sits to administer justice. -- Court dress, the dress prescribed for appearance at the court of a sovereign. -- Court fool, a buffoon or jester, formerly kept by princes and nobles for their amusement. -- Court guide, a directory of the names and adresses of the nobility and gentry in a town. -- Court hand, the hand or manner of writing used in records and judicial proceedings. Shak. -- Court lands (Eng. Law), lands kept in demesne, -- that is, for the use of the lord and his family. -- Court marshal, one who acts as marshal for a court. -- Court party, a party attached to the court. -- Court rolls, the records of a court. SeeRoll. -- Court in banc, or Court in bank, The full court sitting at its regular terms for the hearing of arguments upon questions of law, as distinguished from a sitting at nisi prius. -- Court of Arches, audience, etc. See under Arches, Audience, etc. -- Court of Chancery. See Chancery, n. -- Court of Common pleas. (Law) See Common pleas, under Common. -- Court of Equity. See under Equity, and Chancery. -- Court of Inquiry (Mil.) , a court appointed to inquire into and report on some military matter, as the conduct of an officer. -- Court of St. James, the usual designation of the British Court; - - so called from the old palace of St. James, which is used for the royal receptions, levees, and drawing-rooms. -- The court of the Lord, the temple at Jerusalem; hence, a church, or Christian house of worship. -- General Court, the legislature of a State; -- so called from having had, in the colonial days, judical power; as, the General Court of Massachusetts. [U.S.] -- To pay one's court, to seek to gain favor by attentions. "Alcibiades was assiduous in paying his court to Tissaphernes." Jowett. -- To put out of court, to refuse further judicial hearing. COURT Court, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Courted; p. pr. & vb. n. Courting.] 1. To endeavor to gain the favor of by attention or flattery; to try to ingratiate one's self with. By one person, hovever, Portland was still assiduously courted. Macualay. 2. To endeavor to gain the affections of; to seek in marriage; to woo. If either of you both love Katharina . . . leave shall you have to court her at your pleasure. Shak. 3. To attempt to gain; to solicit; to seek. They might almost seem to have courted the crown of martyrdem. Prescott. Guilt and misery . . . court privacy and silitude. De Quincey. 4. To invite by attractions; to allure; to attract. A well-worn pathway courted us To one green wicket in a privet hedge. Tennyson. COURT Court, v. i. 1. To play the lover; to woo; as, to go courting. COURT-BARON Court"-bar`on (-br`n), n. (Law) Defn: An inferior court of civil jurisdiction, attached to a manor, and held by the steward; a baron's court; -- now fallen into disuse. COURTBRED Court"bred` (-brd`), a. Defn: Bred, or educated, at court; polished; courtly. COURT-CRAFT Court"-craft` (krt"krft`), n. Defn: The artifices, intrigues, and plottings, at courts. COURT-CUPBOARD Court"-cup`board (-kb`brd), n. Defn: A movable sideboard or buffet, on which plate and other articles of luxury were displayed on special ocasions. [Obs.] A way with the joint stools, remove the court-cupboard, look to the plate. Shak. COURTELLE Courtelle n. Defn: a wool-like fabric. [WordNet 1.5] COURTEOUS Cour"te*ous (kr"t-s; 277), a. Etym: [OE. cortais, corteis, cortois, rarely corteous, OF. corties, corteis, F. courtois. See Court.] Defn: Of courtlike manners; pertaining to, or exxpressive of, courtesy; characterized by courtesy; civil; obliging; well bred; polite; affable; complaisant. A patient and courteous bearing. Prescott. His behavior toward his people is grave and courteous. Fuller. COURTEOUSLY Cour"te*ous*ly, adv. Defn: In a courteous manner. COURTEOUSNESS Cour"te*ous*ness, n. Defn: The quality of being courteous; politeness; courtesy. COURTEPY Cour"te*py (kr"t-p), n. Etym: [D. kort short + pije a coarse cloth.] Defn: A short coat of coarse cloth. [Obs.] Full threadbare was his overeste courtepy. Chaucer. COURTER Court"er (krt"r), n. Defn: One who courts; one who plays the lover, or who solicits in marriage; one who flatters and cajoles. Sherwood. COURTESAN Cour"te*san (kr"t-zn; 277), n. Etym: [F. courtisane, fr. courtisan courtier, It. cortigiano; or directly fr. It. cortigiana, or Sp. cortesana. See Court.] Defn: A woman who prostitutes herself for hire; a prostitute; a harlot. Lasciviously decked like a courtesan. Sir H. Wotton. COURTESANSHIP Cour"te*san*ship, n. Defn: Harlotry. COURTESY Cour"te*sy (kr"t-s), n.; pl. Courtesies (-s. Etym: [OE. cortaisie, corteisie, courtesie, OF. curteisie, cortoisie, OF. curteisie, cortoisie, F. courtoisie, fr. curteis, corteis. See Courteous.] 1. Politeness; civility; urbanity; courtliness. And trust thy honest-offered courtesy, With oft is sooner found in lowly sheds, With smoky rafters, than in tapestry walls And courts of princes, where it first was named, And yet is most pretended. Milton. Pardon me, Messer Claudio, if once more I use the ancient courtesies of speech. Longfellow. 2. An act of civility or respect; an act of kindness or favor performed with politeness. My lord, for your many courtesies I thank you. Shak. 3. Favor or indulgence, as distinguished from right; as, a title given one by courtesy. Courtesy title, a title assumed by a person, or popularly conceded to him, to which he has no valid claim; as, the courtesy title of Lord prefixed to the names of the younger sons of noblemen. Syn. -- Politiness; urbanity; civility; complaisance; affability; courteousness; elegance; refinement; courtliness; good breeding. See Politeness. COURTESY Courte"sy (krt"s), n. Etym: [See the preceding word.] Defn: An act of civility, respect, or reverence, made by women, consisting of a slight depression or dropping of the body, with bending of the kness. [Written also curtsy.] The lady drops a courtesy in token of obedience, and the ceremony proceeds as usual. Golgsmith. COURTESY Courte"sy, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Courtesied (-sd);; p. pr. & vb. n. Courtesyng.] Defn: To make a respectful salutation or movement of respect; esp. (with reference to women), to bow the body slightly, with bending of the knes. COURTESY Courte"sy, v. t. Defn: To treat with civility. [Obs.] COURTHOUSE Court"house`, n. 1. A house in which established courts are held, or a house appropriated to courts and public meetings. [U.S.] 2. A county town; -- so called in Virginia and some others of the Southern States. Providence, the county town of Fairfax, is unknown by that name, and passes as Fairfax Court House. Barlett. COURTIER Court"ier (krt"yr), n. Etym: [From Court.] 1. One who is in attendance at the court of a prince; one who has an appointment at court. You know I am no courtier, nor versed in state affairs. Bacon. This courtier got a frigate, and that a company. Macualay. 2. One who courts or solicits favor; one who flatters. There was not among all our princes a greater courtier of the people than Richard III. Suckling. COURTIERY Court"ier*y (-), n. Defn: The manners of a courtier; courtliness. [Obs.] B. Jonson. COURT-LEET Court"-leet` (-lt`), n. (Eng. Law) Defn: A court of record held once a year, in a particular hundred, lordship, or manor, before the steward of the leet. Blackstone. COURTLIKE Court"like` (-lk`), a. Defn: After the manner of a court; elegant; polite; courtly. COURTLINESS Court"li*ness (-l-ns), n. Etym: [From Courtly.] Defn: The quality of being courtly; elegance or dignity of manners. COURTLING Court"ling (-lng), n. Etym: [Court + -ling.] Defn: A sycophantic courtier. B. Jonson. COURTLY Court"ly (-l), a. Etym: [From Court.] 1. Relating or belonging to a court. 2. Elegant; polite; courtlike; flattering. In courtly company or at my beads. Shak. 3. Disposed to favor the great; favoring the policy or party of the court; obsequious. Macualay. COURTLY Court"ly, adv. Defn: In the manner of courts; politely; gracefully; elegantly. They can produce nothing so courtly writ. Dryden COURT-MARTIAL Court`-mar"tial (krt`mr"shal), n.; pl. Courts-martial (k. Defn: A court consisting of military or naval officers, for the trial of one belonging to the army or navy, or of offenses against military or naval law. COURT-MARTIAL Court`-mar"tial, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Court-martialed (-shald); p. pr. & vb. n. Court-martialing.] Defn: To subject to trial by a court-martial. COURT-PLASTER Court"-plas`ter (krt"pls`tr), n. Defn: Sticking plaster made by coating taffeta or silk on one side with some adhesive substance, commonly a mixture of isinglass and glycerin. COURTSHIP Court"ship (krt"shp), n. 1. The act of paying court, with the intent to solicit a favor. Swift. 2. The act of wooing in love; solicitation of woman to marriage. This method of courtship, [by which] both sides are prepared for all the matrimonial adventures that are to follow. Goldsmith. 3. Courtliness; elegance of manners; courtesy. [Obs.] Trim gallants, full of courtship and of state. Shak. 4. Court policy; the character of a courtier;