[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

or pertaining to medicine, or to medical men. IATROCHEMICAL I*a`tro*chem"ic*al, a. Defn: Of or pertaining to iatrochemistry, or to the iatrochemists. IATROCHEMIST I*a`tro*chem"ist, n. Etym: [Gr. chemist.] Defn: A physician who explained or treated diseases upon chemical principles; one who practiced iatrochemistry. IATROCHEMISTRY I*a`tro*chem"is*try, n. Defn: Chemistry applied to, or used in, medicine; -- used especially with reference to the doctrines in the school of physicians in Flanders, in the 17th century, who held that health depends upon the proper chemical relations of the fluids of the body, and who endeavored to explain the conditions of health or disease by chemical principles. IATROMATHEMATICAL I*a`tro*math`e*mat"ic*al, a. Defn: Of or pertaining to iatromathematicians or their doctrine. IATROMATHEMATICIAN I*a`tro*math`e*ma*ti"cian, n. Etym: [Gr. mathematician.] (Hist. Med.) Defn: One of a school of physicians in Italy, about the middle of the 17th century, who tried to apply the laws of mechanics and mathematics to the human body, and hence were eager student of anatomy; -- opposed to the iatrochemists. IBERIAN I*be"ri*an, a. Defn: Of or pertaining to Iberia. IBEX I"bex, n.; pl. E. Ibexes, L. Ibices. Etym: [L., a kind of goat, the chamois.] (Zoöl.) Defn: One of several species of wild goats having very large, recurved horns, transversely ridged in front; -- called also steinbok. Note: The Alpine ibex (Capra ibex) is the best known. The Spanish, or Pyrenean, ibex (C. Hispanica) has smoother and more spreading horns. IBIDEM I*bi"dem, adv. Etym: [L.] Defn: In the same place; -- abbreviated ibid. or ib. IBIS I"bis, n. Etym: [L. ibis, Gr. (Zoöl.) Defn: Any bird of the genus Ibis and several allied genera, of the family Ibidæ, inhabiting both the Old World and the New. Numerous species are known. They are large, wading birds, having a long, curved beak, and feed largely on reptiles. Note: The sacred ibis of the ancient Egyptians (Ibis Æthiopica) has the head and neck black, without feathers. The plumage of the body and wings is white, except the tertiaries, which are lengthened and form a dark purple plume. In ancient times this bird was extensively domesticated in Egypt, but it is now seldom seen so far north. The glossy ibis (Plegadis autumnalis), which is widely distributed both in the Old World and the New, has the head and neck feathered, except between the eyes and bill; the scarlet ibis (Guara rubra) and the white ibis (G. alba) inhabit the West Indies and South America, and are rarely found in the United States. The wood ibis (Tantalus loculator) of America belongs to the Stork family (Ciconidæ). See Wood ibis. -IBLE -i*ble Defn: . See -able. IBSENISM Ib"sen*ism, n. Defn: The dramatic practice or purpose characteristic of the writings of Henrik Ibsen (1828-1906), Norwegian poet and dramatist, whose best-known plays deal with conventional hypocrisies, the story in each play thus developing a definite moral problem. -IC -ic. Etym: [L. -icus, Gr. ique.] 1. A suffix signifying, in general, relating to, or characteristic of; as, historic, hygienic, telegraphic, etc. 2. (Chem.) Defn: A suffix, denoting that the element indicated enters into certain compounds with its highest valence, or with a valence relatively higher than in compounds where the name of the element ends in -ous; as, ferric, sulphuric. It is also used in the general sense of pertaining to; as, hydric, sodic, calcic. ICARIAN I*ca"ri*an, a. Etym: [L. Icarius, Gr. Defn: Soaring too high for safety, like Icarus; adventurous in flight. ICE Ice, n. Etym: [OE. is, iis, AS. is; aksin to D. ijs, G. eis, OHG. is, Icel. iss, Sw. is, Dan. iis, and perh. to E. iron.] 1. Water or other fluid frozen or reduced to the solid state by cold; frozen water. It is a white or transparent colorless substance, crystalline, brittle, and viscoidal. Its specific gravity (0.92, that of water at 4° C. being 1.0) being less than that of water, ice floats. Note: Water freezes at 32° F. or 0° Cent., and ice melts at the same temperature. Ice owes its cooling properties to the large amount of heat required to melt it. 2. Concreted sugar. Johnson. 3. Water, cream, custard, etc., sweetened, flavored, and artificially frozen. 4. Any substance having the appearance of ice; as, camphor ice. Anchor ice, ice which sometimes forms about stones and other objects at the bottom of running or other water, and is thus attached or anchored to the ground. -- Bay ice, ice formed in bays, fiords, etc., often in extensive fields which drift out to sea. -- Ground ice, anchor ice. -- Ice age (Geol.), the glacial epoch or period. See under Glacial. -- Ice anchor (Naut.), a grapnel for mooring a vessel to a field of ice. Kane. -- Ice blink Etym: [Dan. iisblink], a streak of whiteness of the horizon, caused by the reflection of light from ice not yet in sight. -- Ice boat. (a) A boat fitted with skates or runners, and propelled on ice by sails; an ice yacht. (b) A strong steamboat for breaking a channel through ice. -- Ice box or chest, a box for holding ice; a box in which things are kept cool by means of ice; a refrigerator. -- Ice brook, a brook or stream as cold as ice. [Poetic] Shak. -- Ice cream Etym: [for iced cream], cream, milk, or custard, sweetened, flavored, and frozen. -- Ice field, an extensive sheet of ice. -- Ice float, Ice floe, a sheet of floating ice similar to an ice field, but smaller. -- Ice foot, shore ice in Arctic regions; an ice belt. Kane. -- Ice house, a close-covered pit or building for storing ice. -- Ice machine (Physics), a machine for making ice artificially, as by the production of a low temperature through the sudden expansion of a gas or vapor, or the rapid evaporation of a volatile liquid. -- Ice master. See Ice pilot (below). -- Ice pack, an irregular mass of broken and drifting ice. -- Ice paper, a transparent film of gelatin for copying or reproducing; papier glacé. -- Ice petrel (Zoöl.), a shearwater (Puffinus gelidus) of the Antarctic seas, abundant among floating ice. -- Ice pick, a sharp instrument for breaking ice into small pieces. -- Ice pilot, a pilot who has charge of a vessel where the course is obstructed by ice, as in polar seas; -- called also ice master. -- Ice pitcher, a pitcher adapted for ice water. -- Ice plow, a large tool for grooving and cutting ice. ice sculpture = a sculpture carved from a block of ice, often used for decorating restaurants. ice show an entertainment consisting of ice skaters performing figure-skating on a sheet of ice, usually in an arena, often accompanied by music. -- Ice sludge, bay ice broken small by the wind or waves; sludge. -- Ice spar (Min.), a variety of feldspar, the crystals of which are very clear like ice; rhyacolite. -- Ice tongs, large iron nippers for handling ice. -- Ice water. (a) Water cooled by ice. (b) Water formed by the melting of ice. -- Ice yacht. See Ice boat (above). -- To break the ice. See under Break. -- Water ice, a confection consisting of water sweetened, flavored, and frozen. ICE Ice, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Iced; p. pr. & vb. n. Icing.] 1. To cover with ice; to convert into ice, or into something resembling ice. 2. To cover with icing, or frosting made of sugar and milk or white of egg; to frost, as cakes, tarts, etc. 3. To chill or cool, as with ice; to freeze. ICEBERG Ice"berg`, n. Etym: [Prob. of Scand. origin; cf. Dan. iisbierg, Sw. isberg, properly, a mountain of ice. See Ice, and Berg.] Defn: A large mass of ice, generally floating in the ocean. Note: Icebergs are large detached portions of glaciers, which in cold regions often project into the sea. ICEBIRD Ice"bird`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: An Arctic sea bird, as the Arctic fulmar. ICEBOUND Ice"bound`, a. Defn: Totally surrounded with ice, so as to be incapable of advancing; as, an icebound vessel; also, surrounded by or fringed with ice so as to hinder easy access; as, an icebound coast. ICE-BUILT Ice"-built`, a. 1. Composed of ice. 2. Loaded with ice. "Ice-built mountains." Gray. ICED Iced, a. 1. Covered with ice; chilled with ice; as, iced water. 2. Covered with something resembling ice, as sugar icing; frosted; as, iced cake. Iced cream. Same as Ice cream, under Ice. ICEFALL Ice"fall`, n. Defn: A frozen waterfall, or mass of ice resembling a frozen waterfall. Coleridge. ICELANDER Ice"land*er, n. Defn: A native, or one of the Scandinavian people, of Iceland. ICELANDIC Ice*lan"dic, a. Defn: Of or pertaining to Iceland; relating to, or resembling, the Icelanders. ICELANDIC Ice*lan"dic, n. Defn: The language of the Icelanders. It is one of the Scandinavian group, and is more nearly allied to the Old Norse than any other language now spoken. ICELAND MOSS Ice"land moss`. (Bot.) Defn: A kind of lichen (Cetraria Icelandica) found from the Arctic regions to