[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

musculus muscle + E. spiral.] (Anat.) Defn: Of or pertaining to the muscles, and taking a spiral course; -- applied esp. to a large nerve of the arm. MUSCULOUS Mus"cu*lous, a. Etym: [L. musculosus: cf. F. musculeux.] Defn: Muscular. [Obs.] Jonhson. MUSE Muse, n. Etym: [From F. musse. See Muset.] Defn: A gap or hole in a hedge, hence, wall, or the like, through which a wild animal is accustomed to pass; a muset. Find a hare without a muse. Old Prov. MUSE Muse, n. Etym: [F. Muse, L. Musa, Gr. Mosaic, n., Music.] 1. (Class. Myth.) Defn: One of the nine goddesses who presided over song and the different kinds of poetry, and also the arts and sciences; -- often used in the plural. Granville commands; your aid, O Muses, bring: What Muse for Granville can refuse to sing Pope. Note: The names of the Muses were Calliope, Clio, Erato, Euterpe, Melpomene, Polymnia or Polyhymnia, Terpsichore, Thalia, and Urania. 2. A particular power and practice of poetry. Shak. 3. A poet; a bard. [R.] Milton. MUSE Muse, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Mused; p. pr. & vb. n. Musing.] Etym: [F. muser to loiter or trifle, orig., to stand with open mouth, fr. LL. musus, morsus, muzzle, snout, fr. L. morsus a biting, bite, fr. mordere to bite. See Morsel, and cf. Amuse, Muzzle, n.] 1. To think closely; to study in silence; to meditate. "Thereon mused he." Chaucer. He mused upon some dangerous plot. Sir P. Sidney. 2. To be absent in mind; to be so occupied in study or contemplation as not to observe passing scenes or things present; to be in a brown study. Daniel. 3. To wonder. [Obs.] Spenser. B. Jonson. Syn. -- To consider; meditate; ruminate. See Ponder. MUSE Muse, v. t. 1. To think on; to meditate on. Come, then, expressive Silence, muse his praise. Thomson. 2. To wonder at. [Obs.] Shak. MUSE Muse, n. 1. Contemplation which abstracts the mind from passing scenes; absorbing thought; hence, absence of mind; a brown study. Milton. 2. Wonder, or admiration. [Obs.] Spenser. MUSEFUL Muse"ful, a. Defn: Meditative; thoughtfully silent. "Museful mopings." Dryden. -- Muse"ful*ly, adv. MUSELESS Muse"less, a. Defn: Unregardful of the Muses; disregarding the power of poetry; unpoetical. Milton. MUSER Mus"er, n. Defn: One who muses. MUSET Mu"set, n. Etym: [OF. mussette, dim. of musse, muce, a hiding place, fr. F. musser, OF. mucier, muchier, to conceal, hide. Cf. Micher.] Defn: A small hole or gap through which a wild animal passes; a muse. Shak. MUSETTE Mu*sette", n. Etym: [F., dim. of OF. muse.] 1. A small bagpipe formerly in use, having a soft and sweet tone. 2. An air adapted to this instrument; also, a kind of rustic dance. MUSEUM Mu*se"um, n. Etym: [L., a temple of the Muses, hence, a place of study, fr. Gr. Defn: A repository or a collection of natural, scientific, or literary curiosities, or of works of art. Museum beetle, Museum pest. (Zoöl.) See Anthrenus. MUSH Mush, n. Etym: [Cf. Gael. mus, muss, pap, porridge, any thick preparation of fruit, OHG. muos; akin to AS. & OS. mos food, and prob, to E. meat. See Meat.] Defn: Meal (esp. Indian meal) boiled in water; hasty pudding; supawn. [U.S.] MUSH Mush, v. t. Etym: [Cf. F. moucheter to cut with small cuts.] Defn: To notch, cut, or indent, as cloth, with a stamp. MUSHROOM Mush"room, n. Etym: [OE. muscheron, OF. mouscheron, F. mousseron; perhaps fr. mousse moss, of German origin. See Moss.] 1. (Bot.) (a) An edible fungus (Agaricus campestris), having a white stalk which bears a convex or oven flattish expanded portion called the pileus. This is whitish and silky or somewhat scaly above, and bears on the under side radiating gills which are at first flesh-colored, but gradually become brown. The plant grows in rich pastures and is proverbial for rapidity of growth and shortness of duration. It has a pleasant smell, and is largely used as food. It is also cultivated from spawn. (b) Any large fungus, especially one of the genus Agaricus; a toadstool. Several species are edible; but many are very poisonous. 2. One who rises suddenly from a low condition in life; an upstart. Bacon. MUSHROOM Mush"room, a. 1. Of or pertaining to mushrooms; as, mushroom catchup. 2. Resembling mushrooms in rapidity of growth and shortness of duration; short-lived; ephemerial; as, mushroom cities. Mushroom anchor, an anchor shaped like a mushroom, capable of grasping the ground in whatever way it falls. -- Mushroom coral (Zoöl.), any coral of the genus Fungia. See Fungia. -- Mushroom spawn (Bot.), the mycelium, or primary filamentous growth, of the mushroom; also, cakes of earth and manure containing this growth, which are used for propagation of the mushroom. MUSHROOM-HEADED Mush"room-head`ed, a. (Bot.) Defn: Having a cylindrical body with a convex head of larger diameter; having a head like that of a mushroom. MUSHY Mush"y, a. Defn: Soft like mush; figuratively, good-naturedly weak and effusive; weakly sentimental. She 's not mushy, but her heart is tender. G. Eliot. MUSIC Mu"sic, n. Etym: [F. musique, fr. L. musica, Gr. 1. The science and the art of tones, or musical sounds, i.e., sounds of higher or lower pitch, begotten of uniform and synchronous vibrations, as of a string at various degrees of tension; the science of harmonical tones which treats of the principles of harmony, or the properties, dependences, and relations of tones to each other; the art of combining tones in a manner to please the ear. Note: Not all sounds are tones. Sounds may be unmusical and yet please the ear. Music deals with tones, and with no other sounds. See Tone. 2. (a) Melody; a rhythmical and otherwise agreeable succession of tones. (b) Harmony; an accordant combination of simultaneous tones. 3. The written and printed notation of a musical composition; the score. 4. Love of music; capacity of enjoying music. The man that hath ni music in himself Nor is not moved with concord of sweet sounds, Is fit for treasons, stratagems, and spoils. Shak. 5. (Zoöl.) Defn: A more or less musical sound made by many of the lower animals. See Stridulation. Magic music, a game in which a person is guided in finding a hidden article, or in doing a specific art required, by music which is made more loud or rapid as he approaches success, and slower as he recedes. Tennyson. -- Music box. See Musical box, under Musical. -- Music hall, a place for public musical entertainments. -- Music loft, a gallery for musicians, as in a dancing room or a church. -- Music of the spheres, the harmony supposed to be produced by the accordant movement of the celestial spheres. -- Music paper, paper ruled with the musical staff, for the use of composers and copyists. -- Music pen, a pen for ruling at one time the five lines of the musical staff. -- Music shell (Zoöl.), a handsomely colored marine gastropod shell (Voluta musica) found in the East Indies; -- so called because the color markings often resemble printed music. Sometimes applied to other shells similarly marked. -- To face the music, to meet any disagreeable necessity without flinching. [Colloq. or Slang] MUSICAL Mu"sic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. musical.] Defn: Of or pertaining to music; having the qualities of music; or the power of producing music; devoted to music; melodious; harmonious; as, musical proportion; a musical voice; musical instruments; a musical sentence; musical persons. Musical, or Music, box, a box or case containing apparatus moved by clockwork so as to play certain tunes automatically. -- Musical fish (Zoöl.), any fish which utters sounds under water, as the drumfish, grunt, gizzard shad, etc. -- Musical glasses, glass goblets or bowls so tuned and arranged that when struck, or rubbed, they produce musical notes. CF. Harmonica, 1. MUSICAL Mu"sic*al, n. 1. Music. [Obs.] To fetch home May with their musical. Spenser. 2. A social entertainment of which music is the leading feature; a musical party. [Colloq.] MUSICALE Mu`si`cale", n. Etym: [F. Cf. Soirée musicale.] Defn: A social musical party. [Colloq.] MUSICALLY Mu"sic*al*ly, adv. Defn: In a musical manner. MUSICALNESS Mu"sic*al*ness, n. Defn: The quality of being musical. MUSIC DRAMA Mu"sic dra`ma. Defn: An opera in which the text and action are not interrupted by set arias, duets, etc., the music being determined throughout by dramatic appropriateness; musical drama of this character, in general. It involves the use of a kind of melodious declamation, the development of leitmotif, great orchestral elaboration, and a fusion of poetry, music, action, and scene into an organic whole. The term is applied esp. to the later works of Wagner: "Tristan und Isolde," "Die Meistersinger," "Rheingold," "Walküre," "Siegfried," "Götterdämmerung," and "Parsifal." MUSIC HALL Music hall. Defn: A place for public musical entertainments; specif. (Eng.), esp. a public hall for vaudeville performances, in which smoking and drinking are usually allowed in the auditorium. MUSICIAN Mu*si"cian, n. Etym: [F. musicien.] Defn: One skilled in the art or science of music; esp.,