[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

in a great degree; as, a strong powder or tincture; a strong decoction; strong tea or coffee. 11. Full of spirit; containing a large proportion of alcohol; intoxicating; as, strong liquors. 12. Affecting any sense powerfully; as, strong light, colors, etc.; a strong flavor of onions; a strong scent. 13. Solid; nourishing; as, strong meat. Heb. v. 12. 14. Well established; firm; not easily overthrown or altered; as, a strong custom; a strong belief. 15. Violent; vehement; earnest; ardent. He had offered up prayers and supplications with strong crying and tears. Heb. v. 7. 16. Having great force, vigor, power, or the like, as the mind, intellect, or any faculty; as, a man of a strong mind, memory, judgment, or imagination. I was stronger in prophecy than in criticism. Dryden. 17. Vigorous; effective; forcible; powerful. Like her sweet voice is thy harmonious song, As high, as sweet, as easy, and as strong. E. Smith. 18. (Stock Exchange) Defn: Tending to higher prices; rising; as, a strong market. 19. (Gram.) (a) Pertaining to, or designating, a verb which forms its preterit (imperfect) by a variation in the root vowel, and the past participle (usually) by the addition of -en (with or without a change of the root vowel); as in the verbs strive, strove, striven; break, broke, broken; drink, drank, drunk. Opposed to weak, or regular. See Weak. (b) Applied to forms in Anglo-Saxon, etc., which retain the old declensional endings. In the Teutonic languages the vowel stems have held the original endings most firmly, and are called strong; the stems in -n are called weak other constant stems conform, or are irregular. F. A. March. Strong conjugation (Gram.), the conjugation of a strong verb; -- called also old, or irregular, conjugation, and distinguished from the weak, or regular, conjugation. Note: Strong is often used in the formation of self-explaining compounds; as, strong-backed, strong-based, strong-bodied, strong- colored, strong-fisted, strong-handed, strong-ribbed, strong- smelling, strong-voiced, etc. Syn. -- Vigorous; powerful; stout; solid; firm; hardy; muscular; forcible; cogent; valid. See Robust. STRONGHAND Strong"hand`, n. Defn: Violence; force; power. It was their meaning to take what they needed by stronghand. Sir W. Raleigh. STRONGHOLD Strong"hold`, n. Defn: A fastness; a fort or fortress; fortfield place; a place of security. STRONGISH Strong"ish, a. Defn: Somewhat strong. STRONGLY Strong"ly, adv. Defn: In a strong manner; so as to be strong in action or in resistance; with strength; with great force; forcibly; powerfully; firmly; vehemently; as, a town strongly fortified; he objected strongly. STRONG-MINDED Strong"-mind`ed, a. Defn: Having a vigorous mind; esp., having or affecting masculine qualities of mind; -- said of women. -- Strong"-mind`ed*ness, n. STRONG-WATER Strong"-wa`ter, n. 1. An acid. [Obs.] 2. Distilled or ardent spirits; intoxicating liquor. STRONGYLID Stron"gy*lid, a. & n. (Zoöl.) Defn: Strongyloid. STRONGYLOID Stron"gy*loid, a. Etym: [NL. Strongylus the genus (from Gr. -oid.] (Zoöl.) Defn: Like, or pertaining to, Strongylus, a genus of parasitic nematode worms of which many species infest domestic animals. Some of the species, especially those living in the kidneys, lungs, and bronchial tubes, are often very injurious. -- n. Defn: A strongyloid worm. STRONTIA Stron"ti*a, n. Etym: [NL. strontia, fr. Strontian, in Argyleshire, Scotland, where strontianite was first found.] (Chem.) Defn: An earth of a white color resembling lime in appearance, and baryta in many of its properties. It is an oxide of the metal strontium. STRONTIAN Stron"ti*an, n. (Min.) Defn: Strontia. STRONTIANITE Stron"ti*an*ite, n. (Min.) Defn: Strontium carbonate, a mineral of a white, greenish, or yellowish color, usually occurring in fibrous massive forms, but sometimes in prismatic crystals. STRONTIC Stron"tic, a. (Chem.) Defn: Of or pertaining to strontium; containing, or designating the compounds of, strontium. STRONTITIC Stron*tit"ic, a. Defn: Strontic. STRONTIUM Stron"ti*um, n. Etym: [NL. See Strontia.] (Chem.) Defn: A metallic element of the calcium group, always naturally occurring combined, as in the minerals strontianite, celestite, etc. It is isolated as a yellowish metal, somewhat malleable but harder than calcium. It is chiefly employed (as in the nitrate) to color pyrotechnic flames red. Symbol Sr. Atomic weight 87.3. A radioactive isotope of strontium produced by certain nuclear reactions, and constituting one of the prominent harmful components of radioactive fallout from nuclear explosions; also called radiostrontium. It has a half-life of 28 years. STROOK Strook, obs. Defn: imp. of Strike. Dryden. STROOK Strook, n. Defn: A stroke. [Obs.] Chaucer. STROOT Stroot, v. t. Etym: [Cf. Strut, v. i.] Defn: To swell out; to strut. [Obs.] Chapman. STROP Strop, n. Etym: [See Strap.] Defn: A strap; specifically, same as Strap, 3. STROP Strop, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Stropped; p. pr. & vb. n. Stropping.] Defn: To draw over, or rub upon, a strop with a view to sharpen; as, to strop a razor. STROP Strop, n. Etym: [Cf. F. estrope, étrope, fr. L. struppus. See Strop a strap.] (Naut.) Defn: A piece of rope spliced into a circular wreath, and put round a block for hanging it. STROPHANTHUS Stro*phan"thus, n. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Bot.) Defn: A genus of tropical apocynaceous shrubs having singularly twisted flowers. One species (Strophanthus hispidus) is used medicinally as a cardiac sedative and stimulant. STROPHE Stro"phe, n.; pl. Strophes. Etym: [NL., from Gr. strap.] Defn: In Greek choruses and dances, the movement of the chorus while turning from the right to the left of the orchestra; hence, the strain, or part of the choral ode, sung during this movement. Also sometimes used of a stanza of modern verse. See the Note under Antistrophe. STROPHIC Stroph"ic, a. Defn: Pertaining to, containing, or consisting of, strophes. STROPHIOLATE; STROPHIOLATED Stro"phi*o*late, Stro"phi*o*la`ted, a. (Bot.) Defn: Furnished with a strophiole, or caruncle, or that which resembles it. Gray. STROPHIOLE Stro"phi*ole, n. Etym: [L. strophiolum a little chaplet, dim. of strophium a band, Gr. strophiole.] (Bot.) Defn: A crestlike excrescence about the hilum of certain seeds; a caruncle. STROPHULUS Stroph"u*lus, n. Etym: [NL.] (Med.) Defn: See Red-gum, 1. STROUD Stroud, n. Defn: A kind of coarse blanket or garment used by the North American Indians. STROUDING Stroud"ing, n. Defn: Material for strouds; a kind of coarse cloth used in trade with the North American Indians. STROUT Strout, v. i. Etym: [See Strut.] Defn: To swell; to puff out; to project. [Obs.] Chaucer. STROUT Strout, v. t. Defn: To cause to project or swell out; to enlarge affectedly; to strut. [Obs.] Bacon. STROVE Strove, Defn: imp. of Strive. STROW Strow, v. t. [imp. Strowed; p. p. Strown or Strowed.] Defn: Same as Strew. Thick as autumnal leaves that strow the brooks In Vallombrosa. Milton. A manner turbid . . . and strown with blemished. M. Arnold. STROWL Strowl, v. i. Defn: To stroll. [Obs.] STROWN Strown, Defn: p. p. of Strow. STROY Stroy, v. i. Defn: To destroy. [Obs.] Tusser. STRUCK Struck, Defn: imp. & p. p. of Strike. Struck jury (Law), a special jury, composed of persons having special knowledge or qualifications, selected by striking from the panel of jurors a certain number for each party, leaving the number required by law to try the cause. STRUCKEN Struck"en, obs. Defn: p. p. of Strike. Shak. STRUCTURAL Struc"tur*al, a. 1. Of or pertaining to structure; affecting structure; as, a structural error. 2. (Biol.) Defn: Of or pertaining to organit structure; as, a structural element or cell; the structural peculiarities of an animal or a plant. Structural formula. (Chem.) See Rational formula, under Formula. empirical formula. STRUCTURAL SHAPE Struc"tur*al shape. (Engin. & Arch.) Defn: The shape of a member especially adapted to structural purposes, esp. in giving the greatest strength with the least material. Hence, Colloq., Defn: any steel or iron member of such shape, as channel irons, I beams, T beams, etc., or, sometimes, a column, girder, etc., built up with such members. STRUCTURAL STEEL Structural steel. (a) Rolled steel in structural shapes. (b) A kind of strong mild steel, suitable for structural shapes. STRUCTURE Struc"ture, n. Etym: [L. structura, from struere, structum, to arrange, build, construct; perhaps akin to E. strew: cf. F. structure. Cf. Construe, Destroy, Instrument, Obstruct.] 1. The act of building; the practice of erecting buildings; construction. [R.] His son builds on, and never is content Till the last farthing is in structure spent. J. Dryden, Jr. 2. Manner of building; form; make; construction. Want of insight into the structure and constitution of the terraqueous globe. Woodward. 3. Arrangement of parts, of organs, or of constituent particles, in a substance or body; as, the structure of a rock or a mineral; the structure of a sentence. It [basalt] has often a prismatic structure. Dana. 4. (Biol.) Defn: Manner of organization; the arrangement of the different tissues or parts of animal and vegetable organisms; as, organic structure, or the structure of animals and plants; cellular structure. 5. That which is built; a building; esp., a building of some size or magnificence; an edifice. There stands a structure of majestic frame. Pope. Columnar structure. See under Columnar. STRUCTURED Struc"tured, a. (Biol.) Defn: Having a definite organic structure; showing differentiation of parts. The passage from a structureless state