[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

and glutton shall come to poverty. Prov. xxiii. 21. DRUNKEN Drunk"en, a. Etym: [AS. druncen, prop., that has drunk, p. p. of drincan, taken as active. See Drink, v. i., and cf. Drunk.] 1. Overcome by strong drink; intoxicated by, or as by, spirituous liquor; inebriated. Drunken men imagine everything turneth round. Bacon. 2. Saturated with liquid or moisture; drenched. Let the earth be drunken with our blood. Shak. 3. Pertaining to, or proceeding from, intoxication. The drunken quarrels of a rake. Swift. DRUNKENHEAD Drunk"en*head, n. Defn: Drunkenness. [Obs.] DRUNKENLY Drunk"en*ly, adv. Defn: In a drunken manner. [R.] Shak. DRUNKENNESS Drunk"en*ness, n. 1. The state of being drunken with, or as with, alcoholic liquor; intoxication; inebriety; -- used of the casual state or the habit. The Lacedemonians trained up their children to hate drunkenness by bringing a drunken man into their company. I. Watts. 2. Disorder of the faculties, resembling intoxication by liquors; inflammation; frenzy; rage. Passion is the drunkenness of the mind. South. Syn. -- Intoxication; inebriation; inebriety. -- Drunkenness, Intoxication, Inebriation. Drunkenness refers more to the habit; intoxication and inebriation, to specific acts. The first two words are extensively used in a figurative sense; a person is intoxicated with success, and is drunk with joy. "This plan of empire was not taken up in the first intoxication of unexpected success." Burke. DRUNKENSHIP; DRUNKSHIP Drunk"en*ship, Drunk"ship, n. Defn: The state of being drunk; drunkenness. [Obs.] Gower. DRUPACEOUS Dru*pa"ceous, a. Etym: [Cf. F. drupacé.] (Bot.) Defn: Producing, or pertaining to, drupes; having the form of drupes; as, drupaceous trees or fruits. DRUPAL Drup"al, a. (Bot.) Defn: Drupaceous. DRUPE Drupe, n. Etym: [F. drupe, L. drupa an overripe, wrinkled olive, fr. Gr. (Bot.) Defn: A fruit consisting of pulpy, coriaceous, or fibrous exocarp, without valves, containing a nut or stone with a kernel. The exocarp is succulent in the plum, cherry, apricot, peach, etc.; dry and subcoriaceous in the almond; and fibrous in the cocoanut. DRUPEL; DRUPELET Drup"el, Drupe"let, n. Etym: [Dim. of Drupe.] (Bot.) Defn: A small drupe, as one of the pulpy grains of the blackberry. DRUSE Druse, n. Etym: [Cf. G. druse bonny, crystallized piece of ore, Bohem. druza. Cf. Dross.] (Min.) Defn: A cavity in a rock, having its interior surface studded with crystals and sometimes filled with water; a geode. DRUSE Druse, n. Defn: One of a people and religious sect dwelling chiefly in the Lebanon mountains of Syria. The Druses separated from the Mohammedan Arabs in the 9th century. Their characteristic dogma is the unity of God. Am. Cyc. DRUSY; DRUSED Dru"sy, Drused, a. (Min.) Defn: Covered with a large number of minute crystals. DRUXEY; DRUXY Drux"ey, Drux"y, a. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.] Defn: Having decayed spots or streaks of a whitish color; -- said of timber. Weale. DRY Dry, a. [Compar. Drier; superl. Driest.] Etym: [OE. dru, druye, drie, AS. dryge; akin to LG. dröge, D. droog, OHG. trucchan, G. trocken, Icel. draugr a dry log. Cf. Drought, Drouth, 3d Drug.] 1. Free from moisture; having little humidity or none; arid; not wet or moist; deficient in the natural or normal supply of moisture, as rain or fluid of any kind; -- said especially: (a) Of the weather: Free from rain or mist. The weather, we agreed, was too dry for the season. Addison. (b) Of vegetable matter: Free from juices or sap; not succulent; not green; as, dry wood or hay. (c) Of animals: Not giving milk; as, the cow is dry. (d) Of persons: Thirsty; needing drink. Give the dry fool drink. Shak (e) Of the eyes: Not shedding tears. Not a dry eye was to be seen in the assembly. Prescott. (f) (Med.) Defn: Of certain morbid conditions, in which there is entire or comparative absence of moisture; as, dry gangrene; dry catarrh. 2. Destitute of that which interests or amuses; barren; unembellished; jejune; plain. These epistles will become less dry, more susceptible of ornament. Pope. 3. Characterized by a quality somewhat severe, grave, or hard; hence, sharp; keen; shrewd; quaint; as, a dry tone or manner; dry wit. He was rather a dry, shrewd kind of body. W. Irving. 4. (Fine Arts) Defn: Exhibiting a sharp, frigid preciseness of execution, or the want of a delicate contour in form, and of easy transition in coloring. Dry area (Arch.), a small open space reserved outside the foundation of a building to guard it from damp. -- Dry blow. (a) (Med.) A blow which inflicts no wound, and causes no effusion of blood. (b) A quick, sharp blow. -- Dry bone (Min.), Smithsonite, or carbonate of zinc; -- a miner's term. -- Dry castor (Zoöl.) a kind of beaver; -- called also parchment beaver. -- Dry cupping. (Med.) See under Cupping. -- Dry dock. See under Dock. -- Dry fat. See Dry vat (below). -- Dry light, pure unobstructed light; hence, a clear, impartial view. Bacon. The scientific man must keep his feelings under stern control, lest they obtrude into his researches, and color the dry light in which alone science desires to see its objects. J. C. Shairp. -- Dry masonry. See Masonry. -- Dry measure, a system of measures of volume for dry or coarse articles, by the bushel, peck, etc. -- Dry pile (Physics), a form of the Voltaic pile, constructed without the use of a liquid, affording a feeble current, and chiefly useful in the construction of electroscopes of great delicacy; -- called also Zamboni's , from the names of the two earliest constructors of it. -- Dry pipe (Steam Engine), a pipe which conducts dry steam from a boiler. -- Dry plate (Photog.), a glass plate having a dry coating sensitive to light, upon which photographic negatives or pictures can be made, without moistening. -- Dry-plate process, the process of photographing with dry plates. -- Dry point. (Fine Arts) (a) An engraving made with the needle instead of the burin, in which the work is done nearly as in etching, but is finished without the use acid. (b) A print from such an engraving, usually upon paper. (c) Hence: The needle with which such an engraving is made. -- Dry rent (Eng. Law), a rent reserved by deed, without a clause of distress. Bouvier. -- Dry rot, a decay of timber, reducing its fibers to the condition of a dry powdery dust, often accompanied by the presence of a peculiar fungus (Merulius lacrymans), which is sometimes considered the cause of the decay; but it is more probable that the real cause is the decomposition of the wood itself. D. C. Eaton. Called also sap rot, and, in the United States, powder post. Hebert. -- Dry stove, a hothouse adapted to preserving the plants of arid climates. Brande & C. -- Dry vat, a vat, basket, or other receptacle for dry articles. -- Dry wine, that in which the saccharine matter and fermentation were so exactly balanced, that they have wholly neutralized each other, and no sweetness is perceptible; -- opposed to sweet wine, in which the saccharine matter is in excess. DRY Dry, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Dried; p. pr. & vb. n. Drying.] Etym: [AS. drygan; cf. drugian to grow dry. See Dry, a.] Defn: To make dry; to free from water, or from moisture of any kind, and by any means; to exsiccate; as, to dry the eyes; to dry one's tears; the wind dries the earth; to dry a wet cloth; to dry hay. To dry up. (a) To scorch or parch with thirst; to deprive utterly of water; to consume. Their honorable men are famished, and their multitude dried up with thirst. Is. v. 13. The water of the sea, which formerly covered it, was in time exhaled and dried up by the sun. Woodward. (b) To make to cease, as a stream of talk. Their sources of revenue were dried up. Jowett (Thucyd. ) -- To dry, or dry up, a cow, to cause a cow to cease secreting milk. Tylor. DRY Dry, v. i. 1. To grow dry; to become free from wetness, moisture, or juice; as, the road dries rapidly. 2. To evaporate wholly; to be exhaled; -- said of moisture, or a liquid; -- sometimes with up; as, the stream dries, or dries up. 3. To shrivel or wither; to lose vitality. And his hand, which he put forth against him, dried up, so that he could not pull it in again to him. I Kings xiii. 4. DRYAD Dry"ad, n. Etym: [L. dryas, pl. dryades, Gr. Tree.] (Class. Myth.) Defn: A wood nymph; a nymph whose life was bound up with that of her tree. DRYANDRA Dry*an"dra, n. Etym: [NL. Named after J. Dryander.] (Bot.) Defn: A genus of shrubs growing in Australia, having beautiful, hard, dry, evergreen leaves. DRYAS Dry"as, n.; pl. Dryades. Etym: [L. See Dryad.] (Class. Myth.) Defn: A dryad. DRY-BEAT Dry"-beat`, v. t. Defn: To beat severely. Shak. DRY-BONED Dry"-boned`, a. Defn: Having dry bones, or bones without flesh. DRY DOCK Dry" dock`.