[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

much or as many as a ship will hold; enough to fill a ship. SHIPHOLDER Ship"hold`er, n. Defn: A shipowner. SHIPLESS Ship"less, a. Defn: Destitute of ships. Gray. SHIPLET Ship"let, n. Defn: A little ship. [R.] Holinshed. SHIPLOAD Ship"load`, n. Defn: The load, or cargo, of a ship. SHIPMAN Ship"man, n.; pl. Shipmen (. Defn: A seaman, or sailor. [Obs. or Poetic] Chaucer. R. Browning. About midnight the shipmen deemed that they drew near to some country. Acts xxvii. 27. Shipman's card, the mariner's compass. [Obs.] Shak. SHIPMASTER Ship"mas`ter, n. Defn: The captain, master, or commander of a ship. Jonah i. 6. SHIPMATE Ship"mate`, n. Defn: One who serves on board of the same ship with another; a fellow sailor. SHIPMENT Ship"ment, n. 1. The act or process of shipping; as, he was engaged in the shipment of coal for London; an active shipment of wheat from the West. 2. That which is shipped. The question is, whether the share of M. in the shipment is exempted from condemnation by reason of his neutral domicle. Story. SHIPOWNER Ship"own`er, n. Defn: Owner of a ship or ships. SHIPPEN Ship"pen, n. Etym: [AS. scypen. Cf. Shop, Shepen.] Defn: A stable; a cowhouse. [Obs. or Prov.Eng.] SHIPPER Ship"per, n. Etym: [See Ship, n., and cf. Skipper.] Defn: One who sends goods from one place to another not in the same city or town, esp. one who sends goods by water. SHIPPING Ship"ping, a. 1. Relating to ships, their ownership, transfer, or employment; as, shiping concerns. 2. Relating to, or concerned in, the forwarding of goods; as, a shipping clerk. SHIPPING Ship"ping, n. 1. The act of one who, or of that which, ships; as, the shipping of flour to Liverpool. 2. The collective body of ships in one place, or belonging to one port, country, etc.; vessels, generally; tonnage. 3. Navigation. "God send 'em good shipping." Shak. Shipping articles, articles of agreement between the captain of a vessel and the seamen on board, in respect to the amount of wages, length of time for which they are shipping, etc. Bouvier. -- To take shipping, to embark; to take ship. [Obs.] John vi.24. Shak. SHIPPING NOTE Ship"ping note. (Com.) Defn: A document used in shipping goods by sea. In the case of free goods the shipping notes are the receiving note, addressed by the shipper to the chief officer of the vessel, requesting him to receive on board specified goods, and a receipt for the mate to sign, on receiving whose signature it is called the mate's receipt, and is surrendered by the shipper for the bills of lading. SHIPPO Ship*po", n. [Jap. shippo seven precious things; Chin. ts'ih seven + pao gem.] (Japanese Art) Defn: Cloisonné enamel on a background of metal or porcelain. SHIPPON Ship"pon, n. Defn: A cowhouse; a shippen. [Prov. Eng.] Bessy would either do fieldwork, or attend to the cows, the shippon, or churn, or make cheese. Dickens. SHIP RAILWAY Ship railway. (a) An inclined railway running into the water with a cradelike car on which a vessel may be drawn out on land, as for repairs. (b) A railway on which to transport vessels overland between bodies of water. SHIP-RIGGED Ship"-rigged`, a. (Naut.) Defn: Rigged like a ship, that is, having three masts, each with square sails. SHIPSHAPE Ship"shape`, a. Defn: Arranged in a manner befitting a ship; hence, trim; tidy; orderly. Even then she expressed her scorn for the lubbery executioner's mode of tying a knot, and did it herself in a shipshape orthodox manner. De Quincey. Keep everything shipshape, for I must go Tennyson. SHIPSHAPE Ship"shape`, adv. Defn: In a shipshape or seamanlike manner. SHIPWORM Ship"worm`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: Any long, slender, worm-shaped bivalve mollusk of Teredo and allied genera. The shipworms burrow in wood, and are destructive to wooden ships, piles of wharves, etc. See Teredo. SHIPWRECK Ship"wreck`, n. 1. The breaking in pieces, or shattering, of a ship or other vessel by being cast ashore or driven against rocks, shoals, etc., by the violence of the winds and waves. 2. A ship wrecked or destroyed upon the water, or the parts of such a ship; wreckage. Dryden. 3. Fig.: Destruction; ruin; irretrievable loss. Holding faith and a good conscience, which some having put away concerning faith have made shipwreck. 1 Tim. 1. 19. It was upon an Indian bill that the late ministry had made shipwreck. J. Morley. SHIPWRECK Ship"wreck`, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Shipwrecked; p. pr. & vb. n. Shipwrecking.] 1. To destroy, as a ship at sea, by running ashore or on rocks or sandbanks, or by the force of wind and waves in a tempest. Shipwrecking storms and direful thunders break. Shak. 2. To cause to experience shipwreck, as sailors or passengers. Hence, to cause to suffer some disaster or loss; to destroy or ruin, as if by shipwreck; to wreck; as, to shipwreck a business. Addison. SHIPWRIGHT Ship"wright`, n. Defn: One whose occupation is to construct ships; a builder of ships or other vessels. SHIPYARD Ship"yard`, n. Defn: A yard, place, or inclosure where ships are built or repaired. SHIRAZ Shi*raz", n. Defn: A kind of Persian wine; -- so called from the place whence it is brought. SHIRE Shire, n. Etym: [AS. scire, scir, a division, province, county. Cf. Sheriff.] 1. A portion of Great Britain originally under the supervision of an earl; a territorial division, usually identical with a county, but sometimes limited to a smaller district; as, Wiltshire, Yorkshire, Richmondshire, Hallamshire. An indefinite number of these hundreds make up a county or shire. Blackstone. 2. A division of a State, embracing several contiguous townships; a county. [U. S.] Note: Shire is commonly added to the specific designation of a county as a part of its name; as, Yorkshire instead of York shire, or the shire of York; Berkshire instead of Berks shire. Such expressions as the county of Yorkshire, which in a strict sense are tautological, are used in England. In the United States the composite word is sometimes the only name of a county; as, Berkshire county, as it is called in Massachusetts, instead of Berks county, as in Pensylvania. The Tyne, Tees, Humber, Wash, Yare, Stour, and Thames separate the counties of Northumberland, Durham, Yorkshire, Lincolnshire, etc. Encyc. Brit. Knight of the shire. See under Knight. -- Shire clerk, an officer of a county court; also, an under sheriff. [Eng.] -- Shire mote (Old. Eng. Law), the county court; sheriff's turn, or court. [Obs.] Cowell. Blackstone. -- Shire reeve (Old Eng. Law), the reeve, or bailiff, of a shire; a sheriff. Burrill. -- Shire town, the capital town of a county; a county town. -- Shire wick, a county; a shire. [Obs.] Holland. SHIRE HORSE Shire horse. Defn: One of an English breed of heavy draft horses believed to be descended largely from the horses used in war in the days of heavy armor. They are the largest of the British draft breeds, and have long hair on the back of the cannons and fetlocks. Brown or bay with white on the face and legs is now the commonest color. SHIRK Shirk, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Shirked; p. pr. & vb. n. Shirking.] Etym: [Probably the same word as shark. See Shark, v. t.] 1. To procure by petty fraud and trickery; to obtain by mean solicitation. You that never heard the call of any vocation, . . . that shirk living from others, but time from Yourselves. Bp. Rainbow. 2. To avoid; to escape; to neglect; -- implying unfaithfulness or fraud; as, to shirk duty. The usual makeshift by which they try to shirk difficulties. Hare. SHIRK Shirk, v. i. 1. To live by shifts and fraud; to shark. 2. To evade an obligation; to avoid the performance of duty, as by running away. One of the cities shirked from the league. Byron. SHIRK Shirk, n. Defn: One who lives by shifts and tricks; one who avoids the performance of duty or labor. SHIRKER Shirk"er, n. Defn: One who shirks. Macaulay. SHIRKY Shirk"y, a. Defn: Disposed to shirk. [Colloq.] SHIRL Shirl, a. Defn: Shrill. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. SHIRL Shirl, n. (Min.) Defn: See Schorl. SHIRLEY Shir"ley, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: The bullfinch. SHIRR Shirr, n. (Sewing) Defn: A series of close parallel runnings which are drawn up so as to make the material between them set full by gatherings; -- called also shirring, and gauging. SHIRRED Shirred, a. 1. (Sewing) Defn: Made or gathered into a shirr; as, a shirred bonnet. 2. (Cookery) Defn: Broken into an earthen dish and baked over the fire; -- said of eggs. SHIRT Shirt, n. Etym: [OE. schirte, sherte, schurte; akin to Icel. skyrta, Dan. skiorte, Sw. skjorta, Dan. skiört a petticoat, D. schort a petticoat, an argon, G. schurz, schürze, an argon; all probably from the root of E. short, as being originally a short garment. See Short, and cf. Skirt.] Defn: A loose under-garment for the upper part of the body, made of