[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

treat or preserve, as wood, by a process resembling kyanizing. PAYOR Pay*or", n. (Law) Defn: See Payer. [R.] PAYSE Payse, v. t. Defn: To poise. [Obs.] Spenser. PAY STREAK Pay streak. 1. (Mining) The zone, parallel to the walls of a vein, in which the ore is concentrated, or any narrow streak of paying ore in less valuable material. 2. (Oil Boring) A stratum of oil sand thick enough to make a well pay. PAYTINE Pay"tine, n. (Chem.) Defn: An alkaloid obtained from a white bark resembling that of the cinchona, first brought from Payta, in Peru. PEA Pea, n. Etym: [OF. peis. See Poise.] Defn: The sliding weight on a steelyard. [Written also pee.] PEA Pea, n. (Naut.) Defn: See Peak, n., 3. PEA Pea, n.; pl. Peas or Pease. Etym: [OE. pese, fr. AS. pisa, or OF. peis, F. pois; both fr. L. pisum; cf. Gr. s was misunderstood in English as a plural ending. Cf. Pease.] 1. (Bot.) Defn: A plant, and its fruit, of the genus Pisum, of many varieties, much cultivated for food. It has a papilionaceous flower, and the pericarp is a legume, popularly called a pod. Note: When a definite number, more than one, is spoken of, the plural form peas is used; as, the pod contained nine peas; but, in a collective sense, the form pease is preferred; as, a bushel of pease; they had pease at dinner. This distinction is not always preserved, the form peas being used in both senses. 2. A name given, especially in the Southern States, to the seed of several leguminous plants (species of Dolichos, Cicer, Abrus, etc.) esp. those having a scar (hilum) of a different color from the rest of the seed. Note: The name pea is given to many leguminous plants more or less closely related to the common pea. See the Phrases, below. Beach pea (Bot.), a seashore plant, Lathyrus maritimus. -- Black-eyed pea, a West Indian name for Dolichos sphærospermus and its seed. -- Butterfly pea, the American plant Clitoria Mariana, having showy blossoms. -- Chick pea. See Chick-pea. -- Egyptian pea. Same as Chick-pea. -- Everlasting pea. See under Everlasting. -- Glory pea. See under Glory, n. -- Hoary pea, any plant of the genus Tephrosia; goat's rue. -- Issue pea, Orris pea. (Med.) See under Issue, and Orris. -- Milk pea. (Bot.) See under Milk. -- Pea berry, a kind of a coffee bean or grain which grows single, and is round or pea-shaped; often used adjectively; as, pea-berry coffee. -- Pea bug. (Zoöl.) Same as Pea weevil. -- Pea coal, a size of coal smaller than nut coal. -- Pea crab (Zoöl.), any small crab of the genus Pinnotheres, living as a commensal in bivalves; esp., the European species (P. pisum) which lives in the common mussel and the cockle. -- Pea dove (Zoöl.), the American ground dove. -- Pea-flower tribe (Bot.), a suborder (Papilionaceæ) of leguminous plants having blossoms essentially like that of the pea. G. Bentham. -- Pea maggot (Zoöl.), the larva of a European moth (Tortrix pisi), which is very destructive to peas. -- Pea ore (Min.), argillaceous oxide of iron, occurring in round grains of a size of a pea; pisolitic ore. -- Pea starch, the starch or flour of the common pea, which is sometimes used in adulterating wheat flour, pepper, etc. -- Pea tree (Bot.), the name of several leguminous shrubs of the genus Caragana, natives of Siberia and China. -- Pea vine. (Bot.) (a) Any plant which bears peas. (b) A kind of vetch or tare, common in the United States (Lathyrus Americana, and other similar species). -- Pea weevil (Zoöl.), a small weevil (Bruchus pisi) which destroys peas by eating out the interior. -- Pigeon pea. (Bot.) See Pigeon pea. -- Sweet pea (Bot.), the annual plant Lathyrus odoratus; also, its many-colored, sweet-scented blossoms. PEABIRD Pea"bird`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: The wryneck; -- so called from its note. [Prov. Eng.] PEABODY BIRD Pea"bod*y bird`. (Zoöl.) Defn: An American sparrow (Zonotrichia albicollis) having a conspicuous white throat. The name is imitative of its note. Called also White-throated sparrow. PEACE Peace, n. Etym: [OE. pees, pais, OF. pais, paiz, pes, F. paix, L. pax, pacis, akin to pacere, paciscere, pacisci, to make an agreement, and prob. also pangere to fasten. Cf. Appease, Fair, a., Fay, v., Fang, Pacify, Pact, Pay to requite.] Defn: A state of quiet or tranquillity; freedom from disturbance or agitation; calm; repose; specifically: (a) Exemption from, or cessation of, war with public enemies. (b) Public quiet, order, and contentment in obedience to law. (c) Exemption from, or subjection of, agitating passions; tranquillity of mind or conscience. (d) Reconciliation; agreement after variance; harmony; concord. "The eternal love and pees." Chaucer. Note: Peace is sometimes used as an exclamation in commanding silence, quiet, or order. "Peace! foolish woman." Shak. At peace, in a state of peace. -- Breach of the peace. See under Breach. -- Justice of the peace. See under Justice. -- Peace of God. (Law) (a) A term used in wills, indictments, etc., as denoting a state of peace and good conduct. (b) (Theol.) The peace of heart which is the gift of God. -- Peace offering. (a) (Jewish Antiq.) A voluntary offering to God in token of devout homage and of a sense of friendly communion with Him. (b) A gift or service offered as satisfaction to an offended person. -- Peace officer, a civil officer whose duty it is to preserve the public peace, to prevent riots, etc., as a sheriff or constable. -- To hold one's peace, to be silent; to refrain from speaking. -- To make one's peace with, to reconcile one with, to plead one's cause with, or to become reconciled with, another. "I will make your peace with him." Shak. PEACE Peace, v. t. & i. Defn: To make or become quiet; to be silent; to stop. [R.] "Peace your tattlings." Shak. When the thunder would not peace at my bidding. Shak. PEACEABLE Peace"a*ble, a. Etym: [OE. peisible, F. paisible.] Defn: Begin in or at peace; tranquil; quiet; free from, or not disposed to, war, disorder, or excitement; not quarrelsome. -- Peace"a*ble*ness, n. -- Peace"a*bly, adv. Syn. -- Peaceful; pacific; tranquil; quiet; mild; undisturbed; serene; still. -- Peaceable, Peaceful. Peaceable describes the state of an individual, nation, etc., in reference to external hostility, attack, etc.; peaceful, in respect to internal disturbance. The former denotes "in the spirit of peace;" latter; "in the possession or enjoyment of peace." A peaceable adjustment of difficulties; a peaceful life, scene. PEACEBREAKER Peace"break`er, n. Defn: One who disturbs the public peace. -- Peace"break`ing, n. PEACEFUL Peace"ful, a. 1. Possessing or enjoying peace; not disturbed by war, tumult, agitation, anxiety, or commotion; quiet; tranquil; as, a peaceful time; a peaceful country; a peaceful end. 2. Not disposed or tending to war, tumult or agitation; pacific; mild; calm; peaceable; as, peaceful words. Syn. -- See Peaceable. --Peace"ful*ly, adv.. -- Peace"ful*ness, n. PEACELESS Peace"less, a. Defn: Without peace; disturbed. Sandys. PEACEMAKER Peace"mak`er, n. Defn: One who makes peace by reconciling parties that are at variance. Matt. v. 9. --Peace"mak`ing, n. PEACH Peach, v. t. Etym: [See Appeach, Impeach.] Defn: To accuse of crime; to inform against. [Obs.] Foxe. PEACH Peach, v. i. Defn: To turn informer; to betray one's accomplice. [Obs. or Colloq.] If I be ta'en, I'll peach for this. Shak. PEACH Peach, n. Etym: [OE. peche, peshe, OF. pesche, F. pêche, fr. LL. persia, L. Persicum (sc. malum) a Persian apple, a peach. Cf. Persian, and Parsee.] (Bot.) Defn: A well-known high-flavored juicy fruit, containing one or two seeds in a hard almond-like endocarp or stone; also, the tree which bears it (Prunus, or Amygdalus Persica). In the wild stock the fruit is hard and inedible. Guinea, or Sierra Leone, peach, the large edible berry of the Sarcocephalus esculentus, a rubiaceous climbing shrub of west tropical Africa. -- Palm peach, the fruit of a Venezuelan palm tree (Bactris speciosa). -- Peach color, the pale red color of the peach blossom. -- Peach-tree borer (Zoöl.), the larva of a clearwing moth (Ægeria, or Sannina, exitiosa) of the family Ægeriidæ, which is very destructive to peach trees by boring in the wood, usually near the ground; also, the moth itself. See Illust. under Borer. PEACHBLOW Peach"blow`, a. (Ceramics) Defn: Of the delicate purplish pink color likened to that of peach blooms; -- applied esp. to a Chinese porcelain, small specimens of which bring great prices in the Western countries. PEACH-COLORED Peach"-col`ored, a. Defn: Of the color of a peach blossom. "Peach-colored satin." Shak. PEACHER Peach"er, n. Defn: One who peaches. [Low] Foxe. PEACHICK Pea"chick`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: The chicken of the peacock. PEACHY Peach"y, a. Defn: Resembling a peach or peaches. PEACOCK Pea"cock`, n. Etym: [OE. pecok. Pea- in this word is from AS. peá, pawa, peacock, fr. L. pavo, prob. of Oriental origin; cf. Gr. taus, tawus, Ar. tawu. See Cock the bird.] 1. (Zoöl.) Defn: The male of any