[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

as, it appears by his account; ten o'clock by my watch; to live by rule; a model to build by. (d) At the rate of; according to the ratio or proportion of; in the measure or quantity of; as, to sell cloth by the yard, milk by the quart, eggs by the dozen, meat by the pound; to board by the year. (e) In comparison, it denotes the measure of excess or deficiency; when anything is increased or diminished, it indicates the measure of increase or diminution; as, larger by a half; older by five years; to lessen by a third. (f) It expresses continuance or duration; during the course of; within the period of; as, by day, by night. (g) As soon as; not later than; near or at; -- used in expressions of time; as, by this time the sun had risen; he will be here by two o'clock. Note: In boxing the compass, by indicates a pint nearer to, or towards, the next cardinal point; as, north by east, i.e., a point towards the east from the north; northeast by east, i.e., on point nearer the east than northeast is. Note: With is used instead of by before the instrument with which anything is done; as, to beat one with a stick; the board was fastened by the carpenter with nails. But there are many words which may be regarded as means or processes, or, figuratively, as instruments; and whether with or by shall be used with them is a matter of arbitrary, and often, of unsettled usage; as, to a reduce a town by famine; to consume stubble with fire; he gained his purpose by flattery; he entertained them with a story; he distressed us with or by a recital of his sufferings. see With. By all means, most assuredly; without fail; certainly. -- By and by. (a) Close together (of place). [Obs.] "Two yonge knightes liggyng [lying] by and by." Chaucer. (b) Immediately; at once. [Obs.] "When . . . persecution ariseth because of the word, by and by he is offended." Matt. xiii. 21. (c) Presently; pretty soon; before long. Note: In this phrase, by seems to be used in the sense of nearness in time, and to be repeated for the sake of emphasis, and thus to be equivalent to "soon, and soon," that is instantly; hence, -- less emphatically, -- pretty soon, presently. -- By one's self, with only one's self near; alone; solitary.- By the bye. See under Bye. -- By the head (Naut.), having the bows lower than the stern; -- said of a vessel when her head is lower in the water than her stern. If her stern is lower, she is by the stern. -- By the lee, the situation of a vessel, going free, when she has fallen off so much as to bring the wind round her stern, and to take her sails aback on the other side. -- By the run, to let go by the run, to let go altogether, instead of slacking off. -- By the way, by the bye; -- used to introduce an incidental or secondary remark or subject. -Day by day, One by one, Piece by piece, etc., each day, each one, each piece, etc., by itself singly or separately; each severally. -- To come by, to get possession of; to obtain. -- To do by, to treat, to behave toward. -- To set by, to value, to esteem. -- To stand by, to aid, to support. Note: The common phrase good-by is equivalent to farewell, and would be better written good-bye, as it is a corruption of God be with you (b'w'ye). BY By, adv. 1. Near; in the neighborhood; present; as, there was no person by at the time. 2. Passing near; going past; past; beyond; as, the procession has gone by; a bird flew by. 3. Aside; as, to lay by; to put by. BY By, a. Defn: Out of the common path; aside; -- used in composition, giving the meaning of something aside, secondary, or incidental, or collateral matter, a thing private or avoiding notice; as, by-line, by-place, by-play, by-street. It was formerly more freely used in composition than it is now; as, by-business, by-concernment, by- design, by-interest, etc. BYARD By"ard, n. Defn: A piece of leather crossing the breast, used by the men who drag sledges in coal mines. BY-BIDDER By"-bid`der, n. Defn: One who bids at an auction in behalf of the auctioneer or owner, for the purpose of running up the price of articles. [U.S.] BY-BLOW By"-blow`, n. 1. A side or incidental blow; an accidental blow. With their by-blows they did split the very stones in pieces. Bunyan. 2. An illegitimate child; a bastard. The Aga speedily . . . brought her [his disgraced slave] to court, together with her pretty by-blow, the present Padre Ottomano. Evelyn. BY-CORNER By"-cor`ner, n. Defn: A private corner. Britain being a by-corner, out of the road of the world. Fuller. BY-DEPENDENCE By"-de*pend`ence, n. Defn: An appendage; that which depends on something else, or is distinct from the main dependence; an accessory. Shak. BY-DRINKING By"-drink`ing, n. Defn: A drinking between meals. [Obs.] BYE Bye, n. 1. A thing not directly aimed at; something which is a secondary object of regard; an object by the way, etc.; as in on or upon the bye, i.e., in passing; indirectly; by implication. [Obs. except in the phrase by the bye.] The Synod of Dort condemneth upon the bye even the discipline of the Church of England. Fuller. 2. (Cricket) Defn: A run made upon a missed ball; as, to steal a bye. T. Hughes. By the bye, in passing; by way of digression; apropos to the matter in hand. [Written also by the by.] BYE Bye n. Etym: [AS.bbygbyggia, b, to dwell sq. root97.] 1. A dwelling. Gibson. 2. In certain games, a station or place of an individual player. Emerson. BY-ELECTION By"-e*lec"tion, n. Defn: An election held by itself, not at the time of a general election. BY-END By"-end`, n. Defn: Private end or interest; secret purpose; selfish advantage. [Written also bye-end.] "Profit or some other by-end." L'Estrange. BYGONE By"gone`, a. Defn: Past; gone by. "Bygone fooleries." Shak BYGONE By"gone`, n. Defn: Something gone by or past; a past event. "Let old bygones be" Tennyson. Let bygones be bygones, let the past be forgotten. BY-INTEREST By"-in`ter*est, n. Defn: Self-interest; private advantage. Atterbury. BYLAND By"land, n. Defn: A peninsula. [Obs.] BYLANDER By"land*er, n. Defn: See Bilander.[Obs.] BY-LANE By"-lane`, n. Defn: A private lane, or one opening out of the usual road. BY-LAW By"-law` (, n. Etym: [Cf.Sw.bylag, D.bylov, Icel.b, fr.Sw.& Dan. by town, Icel. bær, byr (fr. bûa to dwell) + the word for law; hence, a law for one town, a special law. Cf.Birlaw and see Law.] 1. A local or subordinate law; a private law or regulation made by a corporation for its own government. There was likewise a law to restrain the by-laws, or ordinances of corporations. Bacon. The law or institution; to which are added two by-laws, as a comment upon the general law. Addison. 2. A law that is less important than a general law or constitutional provision, and subsidiary to it; a rule relating to a matter of detail; as, civic societies often adopt a constitution and by-laws for the government of their members. In this sense the word has probably been influenced by by, meaning secondary or aside. BY-NAME By"-name`, n. Defn: A nickname. Camden. BYNAME By"name`, v. t. Defn: To give a nickname to. Camden. BY-PASS By"-pass, n. (Mech.) Defn: A by-passage, for a pipe, or other channel, to divert circulation from the usual course. BY-PASSAGE By"-pas`sage, n. Defn: A passage different from the usual one; a byway. BY-PAST By"-past, a. Defn: Past; gone by. "By-past perils." Shak. BYPATH By"path`, n.; pl. Bypaths( Defn: A private path; an obscure way; indirect means. God known, my son, By what bypaths, and indirect crooked ways, I met this crown. Shak. BY-PLACE By"-place` (, n. Defn: A retired or private place. BYPLAY By"play, n. Defn: Action carried on aside, and commonly in dumb show, while the main action proceeds. BY-PRODUCT By"-prod`uct, n. Defn: A secondary or additional product; something produced, as in the course of a manufacture, in addition to the principal product. BYRE Byre, n. Etym: [Cf, Icel. bür pantry, Sw. bur cage,Dan. buur, E.bower.] Defn: A cow house. [N. of Eng.& Scot.] BY-RESPECT By"-re*spect`, n. Defn: Private end or view; by-interest. [Obs.] Dryden. BYROAD By"road`, n. Defn: A private or obscure road. "Through slippery byroads" Swift. BYRONIC By"ron`ic, a. Defn: Pertaining to, or in the style of, Lord Byron. With despair and Byronic misanthropy. Thackeray BY-ROOM By"-room`, n. Defn: A private room or apartment. "Stand in some by-room" Shak. BYSMOTTERED By"*smot`ter*ed, p.a. Etym: [See Besmut.] Defn: Bespotted with mud or dirt. [Obs.] Chaucer. BY-SPEECH By"-speech`(, n. Defn: An incidental or casual speech, not directly relating to the point. "To quote by-speeches." Hooker. BY-SPELL