[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

God of his bounty would shift Crowns two of flowers well smelling. Chaucer. 2. To change the place of; to move or remove from one place to another; as, to shift a burden from one shoulder to another; to shift the blame. Hastily he schifte him[self]. Piers Plowman. Pare saffron between the two St. Mary's days, Or set or go shift it that knowest the ways. Tusser. 3. To change the position of; to alter the bearings of; to turn; as, to shift the helm or sails. Carrying the oar loose, [they] shift it hither and thither at pleasure. Sir W. Raleigh. 4. To exchange for another of the same class; to remove and to put some similar thing in its place; to change; as, to shift the clothes; to shift the scenes. I would advise you to shift a shirt. Shak. 5. To change the clothing of; -- used reflexively. [Obs.] As it were to ride day and night; and . . . not to have patience to shift me. Shak. 6. To put off or out of the way by some expedient. "I shifted him away." Shak. To shift off, to delay; to defer; to put off; to lay aside. -- To shift the scene, to change the locality or the surroundings, as in a play or a story. Shift the scene for half an hour; Time and place are in thy power. Swift. SHIFT Shift, v. i. 1. To divide; to distribute. [Obs.] Some this, some that, as that him liketh shift. Chaucer. 2. To make a change or changes; to change position; to move; to veer; to substitute one thing for another; -- used in the various senses of the transitive verb. The sixth age shifts Into the lean and slippered pantaloon. Shak. Here the Baillie shifted and fidgeted about in his seat. Sir W. Scott. 3. To resort to expedients for accomplishing a purpose; to contrive; to manage. Men in distress will look to themselves, and leave their companions to schift as well as they can. L'Estrange. 4. To practice indirect or evasive methods. All those schoolmen, though they were exceeding witty, yet better teach all their followers to shift, than to resolve by their distinctions. Sir W. Raleigh. 5. (Naut.) Defn: To slip to one side of a ship, so as to destroy the equilibrum; -- said of ballast or cargo; as, the cargo shifted. SHIFT Shift, n. Etym: [Cf. Icel skipti. See Shift, v. t.] 1. The act of shifting. Specifically: (a) The act of putting one thing in the place of another, or of changing the place of a thing; change; substitution. My going to Oxford was not merely for shift of air. Sir H. Wotton. (b) A turning from one thing to another; hence, an expedient tried in difficalty; often, an evasion; a trick; a fraud. "Reduced to pitiable shifts." Macaulay. I 'll find a thousand shifts to get away. Shak. Little souls on little shifts rely. Dryden. 2. Something frequently shifted; especially, a woman's under-garment; a chemise. 3. The change of one set of workmen for another; hence, a spell, or turn, of work; also, a set of workmen who work in turn with other sets; as, a night shift. 4. In building, the extent, or arrangement, of the overlapping of plank, brick, stones, etc., that are placed in courses so as to break joints. 5. (Mining) Defn: A breaking off and dislocation of a seam; a fault. 6. (Mus.) Defn: A change of the position of the hand on the finger board, in playing the violin. To make shift, to contrive or manage in an exigency. "I shall make shift to go without him." Shak. [They] made a shift to keep their own in Ireland. Milton. SHIFTABLE Shift"a*ble, a. Defn: Admitting of being shifted. SHIFTER Shift"er, n. 1. One who, or that which, shifts; one who plays tricks or practices artifice; a cozener. 'T was such a shifter that, if truth were known, Death was half glad when he had got him down. Milton. 2. (Naut.) Defn: An assistant to the ship's cook in washing, steeping, and shifting the salt provisions. 3. (Mach.) (a) An arrangement for shifting a belt sidewise from one pulley to another. (b) (Knitting Mach.) A wire for changing a loop from one needle to another, as in narrowing, etc. SHIFTINESS Shift"i*ness, n. Defn: The quality or state of being shifty. Diplomatic shiftiness and political versatility. J. A. Syminds. SHIFTING Shift"ing, a. 1. Changing in place, position, or direction; varying; variable; fickle; as, shifting winds; shifting opinions or principles. 2. Adapted or used for shifting anything. Shifting backstays (Naut.), temporary stays that have to be let go whenever the vessel tacks or jibes. -- Shifting ballast, ballast which may be moved from one side of a vessel to another as safety requires. -- Shifting center. See Metacenter. -- Shifting locomotive. See Switching engine, under Switch. SHIFTINGLY Shift"ing*ly, adv. Defn: In a shifting manner. SHIFTLESS Shift"less, a. Defn: Destitute of expedients, or not using successful expedients; characterized by failure, especially by failure to provide for one's own support, through negligence or incapacity; hence, lazy; improvident; thriftless; as, a shiftless fellow; shiftless management. -- Shift"less*ly, adv. -- Shift"less*ness, n. SHIFTY Shift"y, a. Defn: Full of, or ready with, shifts; fertile in expedients or contrivance. Wright. Shifty and thrifty as old Greek or modern Scot, there were few things he could not invent, and perhaps nothing he could not endure. C. Kingsley. SHIITE; SHIAH Shi"ite, Shi"ah, n. Etym: [Ar. shi'aia follower of the sect of Ali, fr. shi'at, shi'ah, a multitude following one another in pursuit of the same object, the sect of Ali, fr. sha'a to follow.] Defn: A member of that branch of the Mohammedans to which the Persians belong. They reject the first three caliphs, and consider Ali as being the first and only rightful successor of Mohammed. They do not acknowledge the Sunna, or body of traditions respecting Mohammed, as any part of the law, and on these accounts are treated as heretics by the Sunnites, or orthodox Mohammedans. SHIKAREE; SHIKARI Shi*ka"ree, Shi*ka"ri n. Etym: [Hind.] Defn: A sportsman; esp., a native hunter. [India] SHILF Shilf, n. Etym: [CF. G. shilf sedge.] Defn: Straw. [Obs.] SHILL Shill, v. t. Defn: To shell. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] SHILL Shill, v. t. Etym: [Cf. Sheal.] Defn: To put under cover; to sheal. [Prov.ng.] Brockett. SHILLALAH; SHILLELAH Shil*la"lah, Shil*le"lah, n. Defn: An oaken sapling or cudgel; any cudgel; -- so called from Shillelagh, a place in Ireland of that name famous for its oaks. [Irish] [Written also shillaly, and shillely.] SHILLING Shil"ling, n. Etym: [OE. shilling, schilling, AS. scilling; akin to D. schelling, OS. & OHG. scilling, G. schilling, Sw. & Dan. skilling, Icel. skillingr, Goth. skilliggs, and perh. to OHG. scellan to sound, G. schallen.] 1. A silver coin, and money of account, of Great Britain and its dependencies, equal to twelve pence, or the twentieth part of a pound, equivalent to about twenty-four cents of the United States currency. 2. In the United States, a denomination of money, differing in value in different States. It is not now legally recognized. Note: Many of the States while colonies had issued bills of credit which had depreciated in different degrees in the different colonies. Thus, in New England currency (used also in Virginia, Kentucky, Tennessee, Indiana, Illinois, Missouri, Mississippi, Alabama, and Florida), after the adoption of the decimal system, the pound in paper money was worth only $3.333, and the shilling 16 Am. Cyc. 3. The Spanish real, of the value of one eight of a dollar, or 12 York shilling. Same as Shilling, 3. SHILL-I-SHALL-I; SHILLY-SHALLY Shill"-I-shall`-I, Shil"ly-shal`ly, adv. Etym: [A reduplication of shall I.] Defn: In an irresolute, undecided, or hesitating manner. I am somewhat dainty in making a resolution, because when I make it, I keep it; I don't stand shill-I-shall-I then; if I say 't, I'll do 't. Congreve. SHILLY-SHALLY Shil"ly-shal`ly, v. i. Defn: To hesitate; to act in an irresolute manner; hence, to occupy one's self with trifles. SHILLY-SHALLY Shil"ly-shal`ly, n. Defn: Irresolution; hesitation; also, occupation with trifles. She lost not one of her forty-five minutes in picking and choosing, - - no shilly-shally in Kate. De Quincey. SHILOH Shi"loh (shi\'b6lo), n. Etym: [Heb. shiloh, literally, quiet, rest, fr. shalah to rest.] (Script.) Defn: A word used by Jacob on his deathbed, and interpreted variously, as "the Messiah," or as the city "Shiloh," or as "Rest." SHILY Shi"ly, adv. Defn: See Shyly. SHIM Shim, n. 1. A kind of shallow plow used in tillage to break the ground, and clear it of weeds. 2. (Mach.) Defn: A thin piece of metal placed between two parts to make a fit. SHIMMER Shim"mer, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Shimmered; p. pr. & vb. n. Shimmering.] Etym: [OE. schimeren, AS. scimerian; akin to scimian, sciman, to glitter, D. schemeren, G. schimmern, Dan. skimre, Sw. skimra, AS. scima a light, brightness, Icel. skima, Goth. skeima