[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

for the same purpose. DRUGGIST Drug"gist, n. Etym: [F. droguiste, fr. drogue. See 3d Drug.] Defn: One who deals in drugs; especially, one who buys and sells drugs without compounding them; also, a pharmaceutist or apothecary. Note: The same person often carries on the business of the druggist and the apothecary. See the Note under Apothecary. DRUGSTER Drug"ster, n. Defn: A druggist. [Obs.] Boule. DRUID Dru"id, n. Etym: [L. Druides; of Celtic origin; cf. Ir. & Gael. draoi, druidh, magician, Druid, W. derwydd Druid.] 1. One of an order of priests which in ancient times existed among certain branches of the Celtic race, especially among the Gauls and Britons. Note: The Druids superintended the affairs of religion and morality, and exercised judicial functions. They practiced divination and magic, and sacrificed human victims as a part of their worship. They consisted of three classes; the bards, the vates or prophets, and the Druids proper, or priests. Their most sacred rites were performed in the depths of oak forests or of caves. 2. A member of a social and benevolent order, founded in London in 1781, and professedly based on the traditions of the ancient Druids. Lodges or groves of the society are established in other countries. Druid stones, a name given, in the south of England, to weatherworn, rough pillars of gray sandstone scattered over the chalk downs, but in other countries generally in the form of circles, or in detached pillars. DRUIDESS Dru"id*ess, n. Defn: A female Druid; a prophetess. DRUIDIC; DRUIDICAL Dru*id"ic, Dru*id"ic*al, a. Defn: Pertaining to, or resembling, the Druids. Druidical circles. See under Circle. DRUIDISH Dru"id*ish, a. Defn: Druidic. DRUIDISM Dru"id*ism, n. Defn: The system of religion, philosophy, and instruction, received and taught by the Druids; the rites and ceremonies of the Druids. DRUM Drum, n. Etym: [Cf. D. trom, trommel, LG. trumme, G. trommel, Dan. tromme, Sw. trumma, OHG. trumba a trumpet, Icel. pruma a clap of thunder, and as a verb, to thunder, Dan. drum a booming sound, drumme to boom; prob. partly at least of imitative origin; perh. akin to E. trum, or trumpet.] 1. (Mus.) Defn: An instrument of percussion, consisting either of a hollow cylinder, over each end of which is stretched a piece of skin or vellum, to be beaten with a stick; or of a metallic hemisphere (kettledrum) with a single piece of skin to be so beaten; the common instrument for marking time in martial music; one of the pair of tympani in an orchestra, or cavalry band. The drums cry bud-a-dub. Gascoigne. 2. Anything resembling a drum in form; as: (a) A sheet iron radiator, often in the shape of a drum, for warming an apartment by means of heat received from a stovepipe, or a cylindrical receiver for steam, etc. (b) A small cylindrical box in which figs, etc., are packed. (c) (Anat.) The tympanum of the ear; -- often, but incorrectly, applied to the tympanic membrane. (d) (Arch.) Defn: One of the cylindrical, or nearly cylindrical, blocks, of which the shaft of a column is composed; also, a vertical wall, whether circular or polygonal in plan, carrying a cupola or dome. (e) (Mach.) Defn: A cylinder on a revolving shaft, generally for the purpose of driving several pulleys, by means of belts or straps passing around its periphery; also, the barrel of a hoisting machine, on which the rope or chain is wound. 3. (Zoöl.) Defn: See Drumfish. 4. A noisy, tumultuous assembly of fashionable people at a private house; a rout. [Archaic] Not unaptly styled a drum, from the noise and emptiness of the entertainment. Smollett. Note: There were also drum major, rout, tempest, and hurricane, differing only in degrees of multitude and uproar, as the significant name of each declares. 5. A tea party; a kettledrum. G. Eliot. Bass drum. See in the Vocabulary. -- Double drum. See under Double. DRUM Drum, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Drummed; p. pr. & vb. n. Drumming.] 1. To beat a drum with sticks; to beat or play a tune on a drum. 2. To beat with the fingers, as with drumsticks; to beat with a rapid succession of strokes; to make a noise like that of a beaten drum; as, the ruffed grouse drums with his wings. Drumming with his fingers on the arm of his chair. W. Irving. 3. To throb, as the heart. [R.] Dryden. 4. To go about, as a drummer does, to gather recruits, to draw or secure partisans, customers, etc,; -- with for. DRUM Drum, v. t. 1. To execute on a drum, as a tune. 2. (With out) To expel ignominiously, with beat of drum; as, to drum out a deserter or rogue from a camp, etc. 3. (With up) To assemble by, or as by, beat of drum; to collect; to gather or draw by solicitation; as, to drum up recruits; to drum up customers. DRUMBEAT Drum"beat`, n. Defn: The sound of a beaten drum; drum music. Whose morning drumbeat, following the sun, and keeping company with the hours, circles the earth with one continuous and unbroken strain of the martial airs of England. D. Webster. DRUMBLE Drum"ble, v. i. Etym: [See Drumly.] 1. To be sluggish or lazy; to be confused. [Obs.] Shak. 2. To mumble in speaking. [Obs.] DRUMFISH Drum"fish`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: any fish of the family Sciænidæ, which makes a loud noise by means of its air bladder; -- called also drum. Note: The common drumfish (Pogonias chromis) is a large species, common south of New Jersey. The southern red drum or red horse (Sciæna ocellata), and the fresh-water drum or croaker (Aplodionotus grunniens), are related species. DRUMHEAD Drum"head`, n. 1. The parchment or skin stretched over one end of a drum. 2. The top of a capstan which is pierced with sockets for levers used in turning it. See Illust. of Capstan. Drumhead court-martial (Mil.), a summary court-martial called to try offenses on the battlefield or the line of march, when, sometimes, a drumhead has to do service as a writing table. DRUMLIN Drum"lin, n. Etym: [Gael. druim the ridge of a hill.] (Geol.) Defn: A hill of compact, unstratified, glacial drift or till, usually elongate or oval, with the larger axis parallel to the former local glacial motion. DRUMLY Drum"ly, a. Etym: [Cf. Droumy.] Defn: Turbid; muddy. [Scot. & Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Wodroephe (1623). Burns. DRUM MAJOR Drum" ma"jor Defn: . 1. The chief or first drummer of a regiment; an instructor of drummers. 2. The marching leader of a military band. [U.S.] 3. A noisy gathering. [R.] See under Drum, n., 4. DRUMMER Drum"mer, n. 1. One whose office is to best the drum, as in military exercises and marching. 2. One who solicits custom; a commercial traveler. [Colloq. U.S.] Bartlett. 3. (Zoöl.) Defn: A fish that makes a sound when caught; as: (a) The squeteague. (b) A California sculpin. 4. (Zoöl.) Defn: A large West Indian cockroach (Blatta gigantea) which drums on woodwork, as a sexual call. DRUMMING Drum"ming, n. Defn: The act of beating upon, or as if upon, a drum; also, the noise which the male of the ruffed grouse makes in spring, by beating his wings upon his sides. DRUMMOND LIGHT Drum"mond light`. Etym: [From Thomas Drummond, a British naval officer.] Defn: A very intense light, produced by turning two streams of gas, one oxygen and the other hydrogen, or coal gas, in a state of ignition, upon a ball of lime; or a stream of oxygen gas through a flame of alcohol upon a ball or disk of lime; -- called also oxycalcium light, or lime light. Note: The name is also applied sometimes to a heliostat, invented by Drummond, for rendering visible a distant point, as in geodetic surveying, by reflecting upon it a beam of light from the sun. DRUMSTICK Drum"stick`, n. 1. A stick with which a drum is beaten. 2. Anything resembling a drumstick in form, as the tibiotarsus, or second joint, of the leg of a fowl. DRUM WINDING Drum winding. (Elec.) Defn: A method of armature winding in which the wire is wound upon the outer surface of a cylinder or drum from end to end of the cylinder; -- distinguished from ring winding, etc. DRUNK Drunk, a. Etym: [OE. dronke, drunke, dronken, drunken, AS. druncen. Orig. the same as drunken, p. p. of drink. See Drink.] 1. Intoxicated with, or as with, strong drink; inebriated; drunken; - - never used attributively, but always predicatively; as, the man is drunk (not, a drunk man). Be not drunk with wine, where in is excess. Eph. v. 18. Drunk with recent prosperity. Macaulay. 2. Drenched or saturated with moisture or liquid. I will make mine arrows drunk with blood. Deut. xxxii. 42. DRUNK Drunk, n. Defn: A drunken condition; a spree. [Slang] DRUNKARD Drunk"ard, n. Etym: [Drunk + -ard.] Defn: One who habitually drinks strong liquors immoderately; one whose habit it is to get drunk; a toper; a sot. The drunkard