[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

insectivorous species of North America and Europe. VESPERTILIONES Ves`per*til`i*o"nes, n. pl. Etym: [NL.] (Zoöl.) Defn: A tribe of bats including the common insectivorous bats of America and Europe, belonging to Vespertilio and allied genera. They lack a nose membrane. VESPERTILIONINE Ves`per*til`i*o"nine, a. (Zoöl.) Defn: Of or pertaining to the Vespertiliones. VESPERTINAL Ves"per*ti`nal, a. Defn: Vespertine. Lowell. VESPERTINE Ves"per*tine, a. Etym: [L. vespertinus. See Vesper.] 1. Of or pertaining to the evening; happening or being in the evening. Gray. 2. (Bot.) Defn: Blossoming in the evening. VESPIARY Ves"pi*a*ry, n. Etym: [L. vespa a wasp.] Defn: A nest, or habitation, of insects of the wasp kind. VESPILLO Ves*pil"lo, n.; pl. Vespilloes. Etym: [L.] (Rom. Antiq.) Defn: One who carried out the dead bodies of the poor at night for burial. Like vespilloes or grave makers. Sir T. Browne. VESSEL Ves"sel, n. Etym: [OF. vessel, veissel, vaissel, vaissiel, F. vascellum, dim. of vasculum, dim. of vas a vessel. Cf. Vascular, Vase.] 1. A hollow or concave utensil for holding anything; a hollow receptacle of any kind, as a hogshead, a barrel, a firkin, a bottle, a kettle, a cup, a bowl, etc. [They drank] out of these noble vessels. Chaucer. 2. A general name for any hollow structure made to float upon the water for purposes of navigation; especially, one that is larger than a common rowboat; as, a war vessel; a passenger vessel. [He] began to build a vessel of huge bulk. Milton. 3. Fig.: A person regarded as receiving or containing something; esp. (Script.), one into whom something is conceived as poured, or in whom something is stored for use; as, vessels of wrath or mercy. He is a chosen vessel unto me. Acts ix. 15. [The serpent] fit vessel, fittest imp of fraud, in whom To enter. Milton. 4. (Anat.) Defn: Any tube or canal in which the blood or other fluids are contained, secreted, or circulated, as the arteries, veins, lymphatics, etc. 5. (Bot.) Defn: A continuous tube formed from superposed large cylindrical or prismatic cells (tracheæ), which have lost their intervening partitions, and are usually marked with dots, pits, rings, or spirals by internal deposition of secondary membranes; a duct. Acoustic vessels. See under Acoustic. -- Weaker vessel, a woman; -- now applied humorously. "Giving honor unto the wife, as unto the weaker vessel." 1 Peter iii. 7. "You are the weaker vessel." Shak. VESSEL Ves"sel, v. t. Defn: To put into a vessel. [Obs.] Bacon. VESSELFUL Ves"sel*ful, n.; pl. Vesselfuls (. Defn: As much as a vessel will hold; enough to fill a vessel. VESSES; VESSETS Ves"ses, Ves"sets, n. Defn: A kind of worsted; also, a worsted cloth. [Prov. Eng.] VESSICNON; VESSIGNON Ves"sic*non, Ves"sig*non, n. Etym: [F. vessigon, fr. L. vesica a bladder, blister.] (Far.) Defn: A soft swelling on a horse's leg; a windgall. VEST Vest, n. Etym: [L. vestis a garment, vesture; akin to Goth. wasti, and E. wear: cf. F. veste. See Wear to carry on the person, and cf. Divest, Invest, Travesty.] 1. An article of clothing covering the person; an outer garment; a vestment; a dress; a vesture; a robe. In state attended by her maiden train, Who bore the vests that holy rites require. Dryden. 2. Any outer covering; array; garb. Not seldom clothed in radiant vest Deceitfully goes forth the morn. Wordsworth. 3. Specifically, a waistcoat, or sleeveless body garment, for men, worn under the coat. Syn. -- Garment; vesture; dress; robe; vestment; waistcoat. -- Vest, Waistcoat. In England, the original word waistcoat is generally used for the body garment worn over the shirt and immediately under the coat. In the United States this garment is commonly called a vest, and the waistcoat is often improperly given to an under-garment. VEST Vest, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Vested; p. pr. & vb. n. Vesting.] Etym: [Cf. L. vestire, vestitum, OF. vestir, F. vêtir. See Vest, n.] 1. To clothe with, or as with, a vestment, or garment; to dress; to robe; to cover, surround, or encompass closely. Came vested all in white, pure as her mind. Milton. With ether vested, and a purple sky. Dryden. 2. To clothe with authority, power, or the like; to put in possession; to invest; to furnish; to endow; -- followed by with before the thing conferred; as, to vest a court with power to try cases of life and death. Had I been vested with the monarch's power. Prior. 3. To place or give into the possession or discretion of some person or authority; to commit to another; -- with in before the possessor; as, the power of life and death is vested in the king, or in the courts. Empire and dominion was [were] vested in him. Locke. 4. To invest; to put; as, to vest money in goods, land, or houses. [R.] 5. (Law) Defn: To clothe with possession; as, to vest a person with an estate; also, to give a person an immediate fixed right of present or future enjoyment of; as, an estate is vested in possession. Bouvier. VEST Vest, v. i. Defn: To come or descend; to be fixed; to take effect, as a title or right; -- followed by in; as, upon the death of the ancestor, the estate, or the right to the estate, vests in the heir at law. VESTA Ves"ta, n. Etym: [L. Vesta, akin to Gr. ush to burn (see East), or perhaps to Skr. vas to dwell, and E. was.] 1. (Rom. Myth.) Defn: One of the great divinities of the ancient Romans, identical with the Greek Hestia. She was a virgin, and the goddess of the hearth; hence, also, of the fire on it, and the family round it. 2. (Astron.) Defn: An asteroid, or minor planet, discovered by Olbers in 1807. 3. A wax friction match. Simmonds. VESTAL Ves"tal, a. Etym: [L. Vestalis belonging to Vesta, vestal. See Vesta.] Defn: Of or pertaining to Vesta, the virgin goddess of the hearth; hence, pure; chaste. VESTAL Ves"tal, n. Etym: [L. Vestalis (sc. virgo): cf. F. vestale. See Vestal, a.] 1. (Rom. Antiq.) Defn: A virgin consecrated to Vesta, and to the service of watching the sacred fire, which was to be perpetually kept burning upon her altar. Note: The Vestals were originally four, but afterward six, in number. Their term of service lasted thirty years, the period of admission being from the sixth to the tenth year of the candidate's age. 2. A virgin; a woman pure and chaste; also, a nun. How happy is the blameless vestal's lot! Pope. VESTALES Ves*ta"les, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Vestal.] (Zoöl.) Defn: A group of butterflies including those known as virgins, or gossamer-winged butterflies. VESTED Vest"ed, a. 1. Clothed; robed; wearing vestments. "The vested priest." Milton. 2. (Law) Defn: Not in a state of contingency or suspension; fixed; as, vested rights; vested interests. Vested legacy (Law), a legacy the right to which commences in præsenti, and does not depend on a contingency; as, a legacy to one to be paid when he attains to twenty-one years of age is a vested legacy, and if the legatee dies before the testator, his representative shall receive it. Blackstone. -- Vested remainder (Law), an estate settled, to remain to a determined person, after the particular estate is spent. Blackstone. Kent. VESTED SCHOOL Vest"ed school. Defn: In Ireland, a national school which has been built by the aid of grants from the board of Commissioners of National Education and is secured for educational purposes by leases to the commissioners themselves, or to the commissioners and the trustees. VESTIARIAN Ves`ti*a"ri*an, a. Etym: [See Vestiary.] Defn: Of or pertaining to a vestiary or vestments. VESTIARY Ves"ti*a*ry, n. Etym: [L. vestiarium. See Vestry.] Defn: A wardrobe; a robing room; a vestry. Fuller. VESTIARY Ves"ti*a*ry, a. Defn: Pertaining to clothes, or vestments. VESTIBULAR Ves*tib"u*lar, a. Defn: Of or pertaining to a vestibule; like a vestibule. VESTIBULE Ves"ti*bule, n. Etym: [L. vestibulum, of uncertain origin: cf. F. vestibule.] Defn: The porch or entrance into a house; a hall or antechamber next the entrance; a lobby; a porch; a hall. Vestibule of the ear. (Anat.) See under Ear. -- Vestibule of the vulva (Anat.), a triangular space between the nymphæ, in which the orifice of the urethra is situated. -- Vestibule train (Railroads), a train of passenger cars having the space between the end doors of adjacent cars inclosed, so as to admit of leaving the doors open to provide for intercommunication between all the cars. Syn. -- Hall; passage. -- Vestibule, Hall, Passage. A vestibule is a small apartment within the doors of a building. A hall is the first large apartment beyond the vestibule, and, in the United States, is often long and narrow, serving as a passage to the several apartments. In England, the hall is generally square or oblong, and a long, narrow space of entrance is called a passage, not a hall, as in America. Vestibule is often used in a figurative sense to denote a place of