[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

neeze.] NEESING Nees"ing, n. Defn: Sneezing. [Obs.] "By his neesings a light doth shine." Job xli. 18. NE EXEAT Ne` ex"e*at. Etym: [L. ne exeat regno let him not go out of the kingdom.] (Law) Defn: A writ to restrain a person from leaving the country, or the jurisdiction of the court. The writ was originally applicable to purposes of state, but is now an ordinary process of courts of equity, resorted to for the purpose of obtaining bail, or security to abide a decree. Kent. NEF Nef (; F. , n. Etym: [F. See Nave.] Defn: The nave of a church. Addison. NEFAND; NEFANDOUS Ne"fand, Ne*fan"dous, a. Etym: [L. nefandus not to be spoken; ne not + fari to speak.] Defn: Unfit to speak of; unmentionable; impious; execrable. [Obs.] "Nefand adominations." Sheldon. "Nefandous high treason." Cotton Mather. NEFARIOUS Ne*fa"ri*ous, a. Etym: [L. nefarius, fr. nefas crime, wrong; ne not + fas divine law; akin to fari to speak. See No, adv., and Fate.] Defn: Wicked in the extreme; abominable; iniquitous; atrociously villainous; execrable; detestably vile. Syn. -- Iniquitous; detestable; horrible; heinious; atrocious; infamous; impious. See Iniquitous. -- Ne*fa"ri*ous*ly, adv. -- Ne*fa"ri*ous*ness, n. NEFASCH Ne"fasch, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: Any fish of the genus Distichodus. Several large species inhabit the Nile. NEFAST Ne"fast, a. Etym: [L. nefastus.] Defn: Wicked. [R.] NEGATION Ne*ga"tion, n. Etym: [L. negatio, fr. negare to say no, to deny; ne not + the root of aio I say; cf. Gr. ah to say; cf. F. négation. See No, adv., and cf. Adage, Deny, Renegade.] 1. The act of denying; assertion of the nonreality or untruthfulness of anything; declaration that something is not, or has not been, or will not be; denial; -- the opposite of Ant: affirmation. Our assertions and negations should be yea and nay. Rogers. 2. (Logic) Defn: Description or definition by denial, exclusion, or exception; statement of what a thing is not, or has not, from which may be inferred what it is or has. NEGATIVE Neg"a*tive, a. Etym: [F. négatif, L. negativus, fr. negare to deny. See Negation.] 1. Denying; implying, containing, or asserting denial, negation or refusal; returning the answer no to an inquiry or request; refusing assent; as, a negative answer; a negative opinion; -- opposed to Ant: affirmative. If thou wilt confess, Or else be impudently negative. Shak. Denying me any power of a negative voice. Eikon Basilike. Something between an affirmative bow and a negative shake. Dickens. 2. Not positive; without affirmative statement or demonstration; indirect; consisting in the absence of something; privative; as, a negative argument; a negative morality; negative criticism. There in another way of denying Christ, ... which is negative, when we do not acknowledge and confess him. South. 3. (Logic) Defn: Asserting absence of connection between a subject and a predicate; as, a negative proposition. 4. (Photog.) Defn: Of or pertaining to a picture upon glass or other material, in which the lights and shades of the original, and the relations of right and left, are reversed. 5. (Chem.) Defn: Metalloidal; nonmetallic; -- contracted with positive or basic; as, the nitro group is negative. Note: This word, derived from electro-negative, is now commonly used in a more general sense, when acidiferous is the intended signification. Negative crystal. (a) A cavity in a mineral mass, having the form of a crystal. (b) A crystal which has the power of negative double refraction. See refraction. -- negative electricity (Elec.), the kind of electricity which is developed upon resin or ebonite when rubbed, or which appears at that pole of a voltaic battery which is connected with the plate most attacked by the exciting liquid; -- formerly called resinous electricity. Opposed to Ant: positive electricity. Formerly, according to Franklin's theory of a single electric fluid, negative electricity was supposed to be electricity in a degree below saturation, or the natural amount for a given body. see Electricity. -- Negative eyepiece. (Opt.) see under Eyepiece. -- Negative quantity (Alg.), a quantity preceded by the negative sign, or which stands in the relation indicated by this sign to some other quantity. See Negative sign (below). -- Negative rotation, right-handed rotation. See Right-handed, 3. -- Negative sign, the sign -, or minus (opposed in signification to +, or Ant: plus), indicating that the quantity to which it is prefixed is to be subtracted from the preceding quantity, or is to be reckoned from zero or cipher in the opposite direction to that of quanties having the sign plus either expressed or understood; thus, in a - b, b is to be substracted from a, or regarded as opposite to it in value; and -10° on a thermometer means 10° below the zero of the scale. NEGATIVE Neg"a*tive, n. Etym: [Cf. F. négative.] 1. A proposition by which something is denied or forbidden; a conception or term formed by prefixing the negative particle to one which is positive; an opposite or contradictory term or conception. This is a known rule in divinity, that there is no command that runs in negatives but couches under it a positive duty. South. 2. A word used in denial or refusal; as, not, no. Note: In Old England two or more negatives were often joined together for the sake of emphasis, whereas now such expressions are considered ungrammatical, being chiefly heard in iliterate speech. A double negative is now sometimes used as nearly or quite equivalent to an affirmative. No wine ne drank she, neither white nor red. Chaucer. These eyes that never did nor never shall So much as frown on you. Shak. 3. The refusal or withholding of assents; veto. If a kind without his kingdom be, in a civil sense, nothing, then ... his negative is as good as nothing. Milton. 4. That side of a question which denies or refuses, or which is taken by an opposing or denying party; the relation or position of denial or opposition; as, the question was decided in the negative. 5. (Photog.) Defn: A picture upon glass or other material, in which the light portions of the original are represented in some opaque material (usually reduced silver), and the dark portions by the uncovered and transparent or semitransparent ground of the picture. Note: A negative is chiefly used for producing photographs by means of the sun's light passing through it and acting upon sensitized paper, thus producing on the paper a positive picture. 6. (Elect.) Defn: The negative plate of a voltaic or electrolytic cell. Negative pregnant (Law), a negation which implies an affirmation. NEGATIVE Neg"a*tive, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Negatived; p. pr. & vb. n. Negativing.] 1. To prove unreal or intrue; to disprove. The omission or infrequency of such recitals does not negative the existence of miracles. Paley. 2. To reject by vote; to refuse to enact or sanction; as, the Senate negatived the bill. 3. To neutralize the force of; to counteract. NEGATIVELY Neg"a*tive*ly, adv. 1. In a negative manner; with or by denial. "He answered negatively." Boyle. 2. In the form of speech implying the absence of something; -- opposed to positively. negatively, by showing wherein it does not consist, and positively, by showing wherein it does consist. South. Negatively charged or electrified (Elec.), having a charge of the kind of electricity called negative. NEGATIVENESS; NEGATIVITY Neg"a*tive*ness, Neg`a*tiv"i*ty, n. Defn: The quality or state of being negative. NEGATORY Neg"a*to*ry, a. Etym: [L. negatorius: cf. F. négatorie.] Defn: Expressing denial; belonging to negation; negative. Carlyle. NEGINOTH Neg"i*noth, n. pl. Etym: [Heb. nêginoth.] (Script.) Defn: Stringed instruments. Dr. W. Smith. To the chief musician on Neginoth. Ps. iv. 9heading). NEGLECT Neg*lect", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Neglected; p. pr. & vb. n. Neglecting.] Etym: [L. neglectus, p.p. of neglegere (negligere) to disregard, neglect, the literal sense prob. neing, not to pick up; nec not, nor (fr. ne not + -que, a particle akin to Goth. -h, -uh, and prob. to E. who; cf. Goth. nih nor) + L. legere to pick up, gather. See No, adv., Legend, Who.] 1. Not to attend to with due care or attention; to forbear one's duty in regard to; to suffer to pass unimproved, unheeded, undone, etc.; to omit; to disregard; to slight; as, to neglect duty or business; to neglect to pay debts. I hope My absence doth neglect no great designs. Shak. This, my long suffering and my day of grace, Those who neglect and scorn shall never taste. Milton. 2. To omit to notice; to forbear to treat with attention or respect; to slight; as, to neglect strangers. Syn. -- To slight; overlook; disregard; disesteem; contemn. See Slight. NEGLECT Neg*lect", n. Etym: [L. neglectus. See Neglect, v.] 1. Omission of proper attention; avoidance or disregard of duty, from heedlessness, indifference, or willfulness; failure to do, use, or heed anything; culpable disregard; as, neglect of business, of health, of economy. To tell thee sadly, shepherd, without blame, Or our neglect, we lost her as we came. Milton. 2. Omission if attention or civilities;