[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

pipe made out leases of crown lands, accounts of cheriffs, etc. [Eng.] -- Pipe tree (Bot.), the lilac and the mock orange; -- so called because their were formerly used to make pipe stems; -- called also pipe privet. -- Pipe wrench, or Pipetongs, a jawed tool for gripping a pipe, in turning or holding it. -- To smoke the pipe of peace, to smoke from the same pipe in token of amity or preparatory to making a treaty of peace, -- a custom of the American Indians. PIPE Pipe, v. i. 1. To play on a pipe, fife, flute, or other tubular wind instrument of music. We have piped unto you, and ye have not danced. Matt. xi. 17. 2. (Naut.) Defn: To call, convey orders, etc., by means of signals on a pipe or whistle carried by a boatswain. 3. To emit or have a shrill sound like that of a pipe; to whistle. "Oft in the piping shrouds." Wordsworth. 4. (Metal.) Defn: To become hollow in the process of solodifying; -- said of an ingot, as of steel. PIPE Pipe, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Piped; p. pr. & vb. n. Piping.] 1. To perform, as a tune, by playing on a pipe, flute, fife, etc.; to utter in the shrill tone of a pipe. A robin . . . was piping a few querulous notes. W. Irving. 2. (Naut.) Defn: To call or direct, as a crew, by the boatswain's whistle. As fine a ship's company as was ever piped aloft. Marryat. 3. To furnish or equip with pipes; as, to pipe an engine, or a building. PIPE CLAY Pipe" clay` ( Defn: A plastic, unctuous clay of a grayish white color, -- used in making tobacco pipes and various kinds of earthenware, in scouring cloth, and in cleansing soldiers' equipments. PIPECLAY Pipe"clay`, v. t. 1. To whiten or clean with pipe clay, as a soldier's accouterments. 2. To clear off; as, to pipeclay accounts. [Slang, Eng.] PIPED Piped, a. Defn: Formed with a pipe; having pipe or pipes; tubular. PIPEFISH Pipe"fish`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: Any lophobranch fish of the genus Siphostoma, or Syngnathus, and allied genera, having a long and very slender angular body, covered with bony plates. The mouth is small, at the end of a long, tubular snout. The male has a pouch on his belly, in which the incubation of the eggs takes place. PIPELAYER; PIPE LAYER Pipe"lay`er, n., or Pipe" lay`er. 1. One who lays conducting pipes in the ground, as for water, gas, etc. 2. (Polit. Cant) Defn: A politician who works in secret; -- in this sense, usually written as one word. [U.S.] PIPELAYING; PIPE LAYING Pipe"lay`ing, n., or Pipe" lay`ing. 1. The laying of conducting pipes underground, as for water, gas, etc. 2. (Polit. Cant) Defn: The act or method of making combinations for personal advantage secretly or slyly; -- in this sense, usually written as one word. [U.S.] PIPE LINE Pipe line. Defn: A line of pipe with pumping machinery and apparatus for conveying liquids, esp. petroleum, between distant points. PIPE-LINE Pipe"-line`, v. t. Defn: To convey by a pipe line; to furnish with a pipe line or pipe lines. PIPEMOUTH Pipe"mouth`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: Any fish of the genus Fistularia; -- called also tobacco pipefish. See Fistularia. PIPER Pi"per, n. Etym: [L.] Defn: See Pepper. PIPER Pip"er, n. 1. (Mus.) Defn: One who plays on a pipe, or the like, esp. on a bagpipe. "The hereditary piper and his sons." Macaulay. 2. (Zoöl.) (a) A common European gurnard (Trigla lyra), having a large head, with prominent nasal projection, and with large, sharp, opercular spines. (b) A sea urchin (Goniocidaris hystrix) having very long spines, native of both the American and European coasts. To pay the piper, to bear the cost, expense, or trouble. PIPERACEOUS Pip`er*a"ceous, a. Etym: [L. piper pepper.] (Bot.) Defn: Of or pertaining to the order of plants (Piperaceæ) of which the pepper (Piper nigrum) is the type. There are about a dozen genera and a thousand species, mostly tropical plants with pungent and aromatic qualities. PIPERAZINE; PIPERAZIN Pi*per"a*zine, n. Also -zin . [Piperidine + azote + -ine.] (Chem.) Defn: A crystalline substance, (C2H4NH)2, formed by action of ammonia on ethylene bromide, by reduction of pyrazine, etc. It is a strong base, and is used as a remedy for gout. PIPERIC Pi*per"ic, a. (Chem.) Defn: Pertaining to, or derived from, or designating, a complex organic acid found in the products of different members of the Pepper family, and extracted as a yellowish crystalline substance. PIPERIDGE Pip"er*idge, n. (Bot.) Defn: Same as Pepperidge. PIPERIDINE Pi*per"i*dine, n. (Chem.) Defn: An oily liquid alkaloid, C5H11N, having a hot, peppery, ammoniacal odor. It is related to pyridine, and is obtained by the decomposition of piperine. PIPERINE Pip"er*ine, n. Etym: [L. piper pepper: cf. F. piperin, piperine.] (Chem.) Defn: A white crystalline compound of piperidine and piperic acid. It is obtained from the black pepper (Piper nigrum) and other species. PIPERONAL Pip`er*o"nal, n. (Chem.) Defn: A white crystalline substance obtained by oxidation of piperic acid, and regarded as a complex aldehyde. PIPERYLENE Pi*per"y*lene, n. Etym: [Piperidine + acetylene.] (Chem.) Defn: A hydrocarbon obtained by decomposition of certain piperidine derivatives. PIPESTEM Pipe"stem`, n. Defn: The hollow stem or tube of a pipe used for smoking tobacco, etc. Took a long reed for a pipestem. Longfellow. PIPESTONE Pipe"stone`, n. Defn: A kind of clay slate, carved by the Indians into tobacco pipes. Cf. Catlinite. PIPETTE Pi*pette", n. Etym: [F., dim. of pipe.] Defn: A small glass tube, often with an enlargement or bulb in the middle, and usually graduated, -- used for transferring or delivering measured quantities. PIPEVINE Pipe"vine`, n. (Bot.) Defn: The Dutchman's pipe. See under Dutchman. PIPEWOOD Pipe"wood`, n. Defn: An ericaceous shrub (Leucothoë acuminata) of the southern United States, from the wood of which pipe bowls are made. PIPEWORT Pipe"wort`, n. (Bot.) Defn: Any plant of a genus (Eriocaulon) of aquatic or marsh herbs with soft grass-like leaves. PIPING Pip"ing, a. Etym: [From Pipe, v.] 1. Playing on a musical pipe. "Lowing herds and piping swains." Swift. 2. Peaceful; favorable to, or characterized by, the music of the pipe rather than of the drum and fife. Shak. 3. Emitting a high, shrill sound. 4. Simmering; boiling; sizzling; hissing; -- from the sound of boiling fluids. Piping crow, Piping crow shrike, Piping roller (Zoöl.), any Australian bird of the genus Gymnorhina, esp. G. tibicen, which is black and white, and the size of a small crow. Called also caruck. -- Piping frog (Zoöl.), a small American tree frog (Hyla Pickeringii) which utters a high, shrill note in early spring. -- Piping hot, boiling hot; hissing hot; very hot. [Colloq.] Milton. PIPING Pip"ing, n. 1. A small cord covered with cloth, -- used as trimming for women's dresses. 2. Pipes, collectively; as, the piping of a house. 3. The act of playing on a pipe; the shrill noted of birds, etc. 4. A piece cut off to be set or planted; a cutting; also, propagation by cuttings. PIPISTREL; PIPISTRELLE Pi*pis"trel, Pip`i*strelle", n. Etym: [F. pipistrelle, It. pipistrello.] (Zoöl.) Defn: A small European bat (Vesperugo pipistrellus); -- called also flittermouse. PIPIT Pip"it, n. Etym: [So named from its call note.] (Zoöl.) Defn: Any one of numerous species of small singing birds belonging to Anthus and allied genera, of the family Motacillidæ. They strongly resemble the true larks in habits, colors, and the great length of the hind claw. They are, therefore, often called titlarks, and pipit larks. Note: The meadow pipit (Anthus pratensis); the tree pipit, or tree lark (A. trivialis); and the rock pipit, or sea lark (A. obscurus) are well-known European species. The common American pipit, or brown lark, is Anthus Pensilvanicus. The Western species (A. Spraguei) is called the American skylark, on account of its musical powers. PIPKIN Pip"kin, n.Etym: [Dim. of Pipe.] Defn: A small earthen boiler. PIPPIN Pip"pin, n. Etym: [Probably fr. OE. pippin a seed, as being raised from the seed. See Pip a seed.] (Bot.) (a) An apple from a tree raised from the seed and not grafted; a seedling apple. (b) A name given to apples of several different kinds, as Newtown pippin, summer pippin, fall pippin, golden pippin. We will eat a last year's pippin. Shak. Normandy pippins, sun-dried apples for winter use. PIPPUL TREE Pip"pul tree`. Defn: Same as Peepul tree. PIPRA Pi"pra, n.; pl. Pipras. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.) Defn: Any one of numerous species of small clamatorial birds belonging to Pipra and allied genera, of the family Pipridæ. The male is usually glossy black, varied with scarlet, yellow, or sky blue. They chiefly inhabit South America. PIPRINE Pi"prine, a. (Zoöl.) Defn: Of or pertaining to the pipras, or the family Pipridæ. PIPSISSEWA Pip*sis"se*wa, n. Etym: [From American Indian.] (Bot.) Defn: A low evergreen plant (Chimaphila umbellata), with narrow, wedge-lanceolate leaves, and an umbel of pretty nodding fragrant blossoms. It has been used in nephritic diseases. Called also