[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

to sound. TOOTER Toot"er, n. Defn: One who toots; one who plays upon a pipe or horn. B. Jonson. TOOTH Tooth, n.; pl. Teeth. Etym: [OE. toth,tooth, AS. ttth, OS. & D. tand, OHG. zang, zan, G. zahn, Icel. tnn, Sw. & Dan. tand, Goth. tumpus, Lith. dantis, W. dant, L. dens, dentis, Gr. danta; probably originally the p. pr. of the verb to eat. *239. Cf. Eat, Dandelion, Dent the tooth of a wheel, Dental, Dentist, Indent, Tine of a fork, Tusk. ] 1. (Anat.) Defn: One of the hard, bony appendages which are borne on the jaws, or on other bones in the walls of the mouth or pharynx of most vertebrates, and which usually aid in the prehension and mastication of food. Note: The hard parts of teeth are principally made up of dentine, or ivory, and a very hard substance called enamel. These are variously combined in different animals. Each tooth consist of three parts, a crown, or body, projecting above the gum, one or more fangs imbedded in the jaw, and the neck, or intermediate part. In some animals one or more of the teeth are modified into tusks which project from the mouth, as in both sexes of the elephant and of the walrus, and in the male narwhal. In adult man there are thirty-two teeth, composed largely of dentine, but the crowns are covered with enamel, and the fangs with a layer of bone called cementum. Of the eight teeth on each half of each jaw, the two in front are incisors, then come one canine, cuspid, or dog tooth, two bicuspids, or false molars, and three molars, or grinding teeth. The milk, or temporary, teeth are only twenty in number, there being two incisors, one canine, and two molars on each half of each jaw. The last molars, or wisdom teeth, usually appear long after the others, and occasionally do not appear above the jaw at all. How sharper than a serpent's tooth it is To have a thankless child ! Shak. 2. Fig.: Taste; palate. These are not dishes for thy dainty tooth. Dryden. 3. Any projection corresponding to the tooth of an animal, in shape, position, or office; as, the teeth, or cogs, of a cogwheel; a tooth, prong, or tine, of a fork; a tooth, or the teeth, of a rake, a saw, a file, a card. 4. (a) A projecting member resembling a tenon, but fitting into a mortise that is only sunk, not pierced through. (b) One of several steps, or offsets, in a tusk. See Tusk. 5. (Nat. Hist.) Defn: An angular or prominence on any edge; as, a tooth on the scale of a fish, or on a leaf of a plant; specifically (Bot.), Defn: one of the appendages at the mouth of the capsule of a moss. See Peristome. 6. (Zoöl.) Defn: Any hard calcareous or chitinous organ found in the mouth of various invertebrates and used in feeding or procuring food; as, the teeth of a mollusk or a starfish. In spite of the teeth, in defiance of opposition; in opposition to every effort. -- In the teeth, directly; in direct opposition; in front. "Nor strive with all the tempest in my teeth." Pope. -- To cast in the teeth, to report reproachfully; to taunt or insult one with. -- Tooth and nail, as if by biting and scratching; with one's utmost power; by all possible means. L'Estrange. "I shall fight tooth and nail for international copyright." Charles Reade. -- Tooth coralline (Zoöl.), any sertularian hydroid. -- Tooth edge, the sensation excited in the teeth by grating sounds, and by the touch of certain substances, as keen acids. -- Tooth key, an instrument used to extract teeth by a motion resembling that of turning a key. -- Tooth net, a large fishing net anchored. [Scot.] Jamieson. -- Tooth ornament. (Arch.) Same as Dogtooth, n., 2.Tooth paste, a paste for cleaning the teeth; a dentifrice. -- Tooth powder, a powder for cleaning the teeth; a dentifrice. -- Tooth rash. (Med.) See Red-gum, 1. -- To show the teeth, to threaten. "When the Law shows her teeth, but dares not bite." Young. -- To the teeth, in open opposition; directly to one's face. "That I shall live, and tell him to his teeth ." Shak. TOOTH Tooth, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Toothed; p. pr. & vb. n. Toothing.] 1. To furnish with teeth. The twin cards toothed with glittering wire. Wordsworth. 2. To indent; to jag; as, to tooth a saw. 3. To lock into each other. See Tooth, n., 4. Moxon. TOOTHACHE Tooth"ache`, n. (Med.) Defn: Pain in a tooth or in the teeth; odontalgia. Toothache grass (Bot.), a kind of grass (Ctenium Americanum) having a very pungent taste. -- Toothache tree. (Bot.) (a) The prickly ash. (b) A shrub of the genus Aralia (A. spinosa). TOOTHBACK Tooth"back`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: Any notodontian. TOOTHBILL Tooth"bill`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: A peculiar fruit-eating ground pigeon (Didunculus strigiostris) native of the Samoan Islands, and noted for its resemblance, in several characteristics, to the extinct dodo. Its beak is stout and strongly hooked, and the mandible has two or three strong teeth toward the end. or ts color is chocolate red. Called also toothbilled pigeon, and manu-mea. TOOTHBRUSH Tooth"brush`, n. Defn: A brush for cleaning the teeth. TOOTHDRAWER Tooth"draw`er, n. Defn: One whose business it is to extract teeth with instruments; a dentist. Shak. TOOTHED Toothed, a. 1. Having teeth; furnished with teeth. "Ruby-lipped and toothed with pearl." Herrick. 2. (Bot. & Zoöl.) Defn: Having marginal projecting points; dentate. Toothed whale (Zoöl.), any whale of the order Denticete. See Denticete. -- Toothed wheel, a wheel with teeth or projections cut or set on its edge or circumference, for transmitting motion by their action on the engaging teeth of another wheel. TOOTHFUL Tooth"ful, a. Defn: Toothsome. [Obs.] TOOTHING Tooth"ing, n. 1. The act or process of indenting or furnishing with teeth. 2. (Masonry) Defn: Bricks alternately projecting at the end of a wall, in order that they may be bonded into a continuation of it when the remainder is carried up. Toothing plane, a plane of which the iron is formed into a series of small teeth, for the purpose of roughening surfaces, as of veneers. TOOTHLESS Tooth"less, a. Defn: Having no teeth. Cowper. TOOTHLET Tooth"let, n. Defn: A little tooth, or like projection. TOOTHLETED Tooth"let*ed, a. Defn: Having a toothlet or toothlets; as, a toothleted leaf. [Written also toothletted.] TOOTHPICK Tooth"pick`, n. Defn: A pointed instument for clearing the teeth of substances lodged between them. TOOTHPICKER Tooth"pick`er, n. Defn: A toothpick. [Obs.] Shak. TOOTHSHELL Tooth"shell", n. (Zoöl.) Defn: Any species of Dentalium and allied genera having a tooth- shaped shell. See Dentalium. TOOTHSOME Tooth"some, a. Defn: Grateful to the taste; palable. -- Tooth"some*ly, adv. -- Tooth"some*ness, n. Though less toothsome to me, they were more wholesome for me. Fuller. TOOTHWORT Tooth"wort`, n. (Bot.) Defn: A plant whose roots are fancied to resemble teeth, as certain plants of the genus Lathræa, and various species of Dentaria. See Coralwort. TOOTHY Tooth"y, a. Defn: Toothed; with teeth. [R] Croxall. TOOTLE Too"tle, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Tootled; p. pr. & vb. n. Tootling.] [Freq. of toot.] Defn: To toot gently, repeatedly, or continuously, on a wind instrument, as a flute; also, to make a similar noise by any means. "The tootling robin." John Clare. TOOZOO Too*zoo", n. Defn: The ringdove. [Prov. Eng.] TOP Top, n. Etym: [CF. OD. dop, top, OHG., MNG., & dial. G. topf; perhaps akin to G. topf a pot.] 1. A child's toy, commonly in the form of a conoid or pear, made to spin on its point, usually by drawing off a string wound round its surface or stem, the motion being sometimes continued by means of a whip. 2. (Rope Making) Defn: A plug, or conical block of wood, with longitudital grooves on its surface, in which the strands of the rope slide in the process of twisting. TOP Top, n. Etym: [AS. top; akin to OFries. top a tuft, D. top top, OHG. zopf end, tip, tuft of hair, G. zopf tuft of hair, pigtail, top of a tree, Icel. toppr a tuft of hair, crest, top, Dan. top, Sw. topp pinnacle, top; of uncertain origin. Cf. Tuft.] 1. The highest part of anything; the upper end, edge, or extremity; the upper side or surface; summit; apex; vertex; cover; lid; as, the top of a spire; the top of a house; the top of a mountain; the top of the ground. The star that bids the shepherd fold, Now the top of heaven doth hold. Milton. 2. The utmost degree; the acme; the summit. The top of my ambition is to contribute to that work. Pope. 3. The highest rank; the most honorable position; the utmost attainable place; as, to be at the top of one's class, or at the top of the school. And wears upon hisbaby brow the round