[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

Supplies stairs, doors shutters, mantelpieces, cupboards, and other parts necessary to finishing the building. In America the two trades are commonly united. Carpenter ant (Zoöl.), any species of ant which gnaws galleries in the wood of trees and constructs its nests therein. They usually select dead or somewhat decayed wood. The common large American species is Formica Pennsylvanica. -- Carpenter bee (Zoöl.), a large hymenopterous insect of the genus Xylocopa; -- so called because it constructs its nest by gnawing long galleries in sound timber. The common American species is Xylocopa Virginica. CARPENTERING Car"pen*ter*ing, n. Defn: The occupation or work of a carpenter; the act of workingin timber; carpentry. CARPENTRY Car"pen*try, n. Etym: [F. charpenterie, OF. also carpenterie. See Carpenter.] 1. The art of cutting, framing, and joining timber, as in the construction of buildings. 2. An assemblage of pieces of timber connected by being framed together, as the pieces of a roof, floor, etc.; work done by a carpenter. CARPER Carp"er, n. Defn: One who carps; a caviler. Shak. CARPET Car"pet, n. Etym: [OF. carpite rug, soft of cloth, F. carpette coarse packing cloth, rug (cf. It. carpita rug, blanket), LL. carpeta, carpita, woolly cloths, fr. L. carpere to pluck, to card (wool); cf. Gr. Harvest.] 1. A heavy woven or felted fabric, usually of wool, but also of cotton, hemp, straw, etc.; esp. a floor covering made in breadths to be sewed together and nailed to the floor, as distinguished from a rug or mat; originally, also, a wrought cover for tables. Tables and beds covered with copes instead of carpets and coverlets. T. Fuller. 2. A smooth soft covering resembling or suggesting a carpet. "The grassy carpet of this plain." Shak. Carpet beetle or Carpet bug (Zoöl.), a small beetle (Anthrenus scrophulariæ), which, in the larval state, does great damage to carpets and other woolen goods; -- also called buffalo bug. -- Carpet knight. (a) A knight who enjoys ease and security, or luxury, and has not known the hardships of the field; a hero of the drawing room; an effeminate person. Shak. (b) One made a knight, for some other than military distinction or service. -- Carpet moth (Zoöl.), the larva of an insect which feeds on carpets and other woolen goods. There are several kinds. Some are the larvæ of species of Tinea (as T. tapetzella); others of beetles, esp. Anthrenus. -- Carpet snake (Zoöl.), an Australian snake. See Diamond snake, under Diamond. -- Carpet sweeper, an apparatus or device for sweeping carpets. -- To be on the carpet, to be under consideration; to be the subject of deliberation; to be in sight; -- an expression derived from the use of carpets as table cover. -- Brussels carpet. See under Brussels. CARPET Car"pet, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Carpeted; p. pr. & vb. n. Carpeting.] Defn: To cover with, or as with, a carpet; to spread with carpets; to furnish with a carpet or carpets. Carpeted temples in fashionable squares. E. Everett. CARPETBAG Car"pet*bag`, n. Defn: A portable bag for travelers; -- so called because originally made of carpet. CARPETBAGGER Car"pet*bag"ger, n. Defn: An adventurer; -- a term of contempt for a Northern man seeking private gain or political advancement in the southern part of the United States after the Civil War (1865). [U. S.] CARPETING Car"pet*ing, n. Defn: 1. The act of covering with carpets. 2. Cloth or materials for carpets; carpets, in general. The floor was covered with rich carpeting. Prescott. CARPETLESS Car"pet*less, a. Defn: Without a carpet. CARPETMONGER Car"pet*mon`ger, n. 1. One who deals in carpets; a buyer and seller of carpets. 2. One fond of pleasure; a gallant. Shak. CARPETWAY Car"pet*way`, n. (Agric.) Defn: A border of greensward left round the margin of a plowed field. Ray. CARPHOLOGY Car*phol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -logy: cf. F. carphologie.] (Med.) Defn: See Flaccillation. CARPING Carp"ing, a. Defn: Fault-finding; censorious caviling. See Captious. -- Carp"ing*ly, adv. CARPINTERO Car`pin*te"ro, n. Etym: [Sp., a carpenter, a woodpecker.] Defn: A california woodpecker (Melanerpes formicivorus), noted for its habit of inserting acorns in holes which it drills in trees. The acorns become infested by insect larvæ, which, when grown, are extracted for food by the bird. CARPOGENIC Car`po*gen"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. -gen.] (Bot.) Defn: Productive of fruit, or causing fruit to be developed. CARPOLITE Car"po*lite, n. Etym: [Gr. -lite, cf. F. carpolithe.] Defn: A general term for a fossil fruit, nut, or seed. CARPOLOGICAL Car`po*log"i*cal, a. Defn: Of or pertaining to carpology. CARPOLOGIST Car*pol"o*gist, n. Defn: One who describes fruits; one versed in carpology. CARPOLOGY Car*pol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -logy.] Defn: That branch of botany which relates to the structure of seeds and fruit. CARPOPHAGOUS Car*poph"a*gous, a. Etym: [Gr. Defn: Living on fruits; fruit-consuming. CARPOPHORE Car"po*phore, n. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.) Defn: A slender prolongation of the receptacle as an axis between the carpels, as in Geranium and many umbelliferous plants. CARPOPHYLL Car"po*phyll, n. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.) Defn: A leaf converted into a fruit or a constituent portion of a fruit; a carpel. Note: [See Illust. of Gymnospermous.] CARPOPHYTE Car"po*phyte, n. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.) Defn: A flowerless plant which forms a true fruit as the result of fertilization, as the red seaweeds, the Ascomycetes, etc. Note: The division of alge and fungi into four classes called Carpophytes, Oöphytes, Protophytes, and Zygophytes (or Carposporeæ, Oösporeæ, Protophyta, and Zygosporeæ) was proposed by Sachs about 1875. CARPOSPORE Car"po*spore, n. Etym: [Gr. -spore.] (Bot.) Defn: A kind of spore formed in the conceptacles of red algæ. -- Car`po*spor"ic (, a. CARPUS Car"pus, n.; pl. Carpi. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Anat.) Defn: The wrist; the bones or cartilages between the forearm, or antibrachium, and the hand or forefoot; in man, consisting of eight short bones disposed in two rows. CARRACK Car"rack, n. Defn: See Carack. CARRAGEEN; CARRIGEEN Car"ra*geen`, Car"ri*geen`, n. Defn: A small, purplish, branching, cartilaginous seaweed (Chondrus crispus), which, when bleached, is the Irish moss of commerce. [Also written carragheen, carageen.] CARRANCHA Car*ran"cha, n. Etym: [Native name.] (Zoöl.) Defn: The Brazilian kite (Polyborus Brasiliensis); -- so called in imitation of its notes. CARRAWAY Car"ra*way, n. Defn: See Caraway. CARREL Car"rel, n. Defn: See Quarrel, an arrow. CARREL Car"rel, n. (Arch.) Defn: Same as 4th Carol. CARRIABLE Car"ri*a*ble, a. Defn: Capable of being carried. CARRIAGE Car"riage, n. Etym: [OF. cariage luggage, carriage, chariage carriage, cart, baggage, F. charriage, cartage, wagoning, fr. OF. carier, charier, F. charrier, to cart. See Carry.] 1. That which is carried; burden; baggage. [Obs.] David left his carriage in the hand of the keeper of the carriage. 1. Sam. xvii. 22. And after those days we took up our carriages and went up to Jerusalem. Acts. xxi. 15. 2. The act of carrying, transporting, or conveying. Nine days employed in carriage. Chapman. 3. The price or expense of carrying. 4. That which carries of conveys, as: (a) A wheeled vehicle for persons, esp. one designed for elegance and comfort. (b) A wheeled vehicle carrying a fixed burden, as a gun carriage. (c) A part of a machine which moves and carries of supports some other moving object or part. (d) A frame or cage in which something is carried or supported; as, a bell carriage. 5. The manner of carrying one's self; behavior; bearing; deportment; personal manners. His gallant carriage all the rest did grace. Stirling. 6. The act or manner of conducting measures or projects; management. The passage and whole carriage of this action. Shak. Carriage horse, a horse kept for drawing a carriage. -- Carriage porch (Arch.), a canopy or roofed pavilion covering the driveway at the entrance to any building. It is intended as a shelter for those who alight from vehicles at the door; -- sometimes erroneously called in the United States porte-cochère. CARRIAGEABLE Car"riage*a*ble, a. Defn: Passable by carriages; that can be conveyed in carriages. [R.] Ruskin. CARRIBOO Car"ri*boo, n. Defn: See Caribou. CARRICK Car"rick, n. (Naut.) Defn: A carack. See Carack. Carrick bend (Naut.), a kind of knot, used for bending together hawsers or other ropes. -- Carrick bitts (Naut.), the bitts which support the windlass. Totten. CARRIER Car"ri*er, n. Etym: [From Carry.] 1. One who, or that which, carries or conveys; a messenger. The air which is but . . . a carrier of the sounds. Bacon. 2. One who is employed, or makes it his business, to carry goods for others for hire; a porter; a teamster. The roads are crowded with carriers, laden with rich manufactures. Swift. 3. (Mach.) Defn: That which drives or carries; as: (a) A piece which communicates to an object in a lathe the motion of the face plate; a lathe dog. (b) A spool holder or bobbin holder in a braiding machine. (c) A movable piece in magazine guns which transfers the cartridge to a position from which it can be thrust into the barrel. Carrier pigeon (Zoöl.), a variety of the domestic pigeon used to convey letters from a distant point to to its home. -- Carrier shell (Zoöl.), a univalve shell of the genus