[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

range and graze. -- Sheep's beard (Bot.), a cichoraceous herb (Urospermum Dalechampii) of Southern Europe; -- so called from the conspicuous pappus of the achenes. -- Sheep's bit (Bot.), a European herb (Jasione montana) having much the appearance of scabious. -- Sheep pox (Med.), a contagious disease of sheep, characterixed by the development of vesicles or pocks upon the skin. -- Sheep scabious. (Bot.) Same as Sheep's bit. -- Sheep shears, shears in which the blades form the two ends of a steel bow, by the elasticity of which they open as often as pressed together by the hand in cutting; -- so called because used to cut off the wool of sheep. -- Sheep sorrel. (Bot.), a prerennial herb (Rumex Acetosella) growing naturally on poor, dry, gravelly soil. Its leaves have a pleasant acid taste like sorrel. -- Sheep's-wool (Zoöl.), the highest grade of Florida commercial sponges (Spongia equina, variety gossypina). -- Sheep tick (Zoöl.), a wingless parasitic insect (Melophagus ovinus) belonging to the Diptera. It fixes its proboscis in the skin of the sheep and sucks the blood, leaving a swelling. Called also sheep pest, and sheep louse. -- Sheep walk, a pasture for sheep; a sheep run. -- Wild sheep. (Zoöl.) See Argali, Mouflon, and Oörial. SHEEPBACK Sheep"back`, n. (Geol.) Defn: A rounded knoll of rock resembling the back of a sheep. -- produced by glacial action. Called also roche moutonnée; -- usually in the plural. SHEEPBERRY Sheep"ber`ry, n. (Bot.) Defn: The edible fruit of a small North American tree of the genus Viburnum (V. Lentago), having white flowers in flat cymes; also, the tree itself. Called also nannyberry. SHEEPBITE Sheep"bite`, v. i. Defn: To bite or nibble like a sheep; hence, to practice petty thefts. [Obs.] Shak. SHEEPBITER Sheep"bit`er, n. Defn: One who practices petty thefts. [Obs.] Shak. There are political sheepbiters as well as pastoral; betrayers of public trusts as well as of private. L'Estrange. SHEEPCOT; SHEEPCOTE Sheep"cot`, Sheep"cote`, n. Defn: A small inclosure for sheep; a pen; a fold. SHEEP-FACED Sheep"-faced`, a. Defn: Over-bashful; sheepish. SHEEPFOLD Sheep"fold`, n. Defn: A fold or pen for sheep; a place where sheep are collected or confined. SHEEP-HEADED Sheep"-head`ed, a. Defn: Silly; simple-minded; stupid. Taylor (1630) SHEEPHOOK Sheep"hook`, n. Defn: A hook fastened to pole, by which shepherds lay hold on the legs or necks of their sheep; a shepherd's crook. Dryden. SHEEPISH Sheep"ish, a. 1. Of or pertaining to sheep. [Obs.] 2. Like a sheep; bashful; over-modest; meanly or foolishly diffident; timorous to excess. Wanting change of company, he will, when he comes abroad, be a sheepish or conceited creature. Locke. -- Sheep"ish*ly, adv. -- Sheep"ish*ness, n. SHEEPMASTER Sheep"mas`ter, n. Defn: A keeper or feeder of sheep; also, an owner of sheep. 2 Kings iii. 4. SHEEPRACK Sheep"rack`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: The starling. SHEEP'S-EYE Sheep's"-eye`, n. Defn: A modest, diffident look; a loving glance; -- commonly in the plural. I saw her just now give him the languishing eye, as they call it; . . . of old called the sheep's-eye. Wycherley. SHEEP'S-FOOT Sheep's-foot`, n. Defn: A printer's tool consisting of a metal bar formed into a hammer head at one end and a claw at the other, -- used as a lever and hammer. SHEEPSHANK Sheep"shank`, n. (Naut.) Defn: A hitch by which a rope may be temporarily shortened. SHEEPSHEAD Sheeps"head` (, n. Etym: [So called because of the fancied resemblance of its head and front teeth to those of a sheep.] (Zoöl.) Defn: A large and valuable sparoid food fish (Archosargus, or Diplodus, probatocephalus) found on the Atlantic coast of the United States. It often weighs from ten to twelve pounds. Note: The name is also locally, in a loose way, applied to various other fishes, as the butterfish, the fresh-water drumfish, the parrot fish, the porgy, and the moonfish. SHEEP-SHEARER Sheep"-shear`er, n. Defn: One who shears, or cuts off the wool from, sheep. SHEEP-SHEARING Sheep"-shear`ing, n. 1. Act of shearing sheep. 2. A feast at the time of sheep-shearing. Shak. SHEEPSKIN Sheep"skin`, n. 1. The skin of a sheep; or, leather prepared from it. 2. A diploma; -- so called because usually written or printed on parchment prepared from the skin of the sheep. [College Cant] SHEEPSPLIT Sheep"split`, n. Defn: A split of a sheepskin; one of the thin sections made by splitting a sheepskin with a cutting knife or machine. SHEEPY Sheep"y, a. Defn: Resembling sheep; sheepish. Testament of Love. SHEER Sheer, a. Etym: [OE. shere, skere, pure, bright, Icel. sk; akin to skirr, AS. scir, OS. skiri, MHG. schir, G. schier, Dan. sk, Sw. skär, Goth. skeirs clear, and E. shine. sq. root157. See Shine, v. i.] 1. Bright; clear; pure; unmixed. "Sheer ale." Shak. Thou sheer, immaculate, and silver fountain. Shak. 2. Very thin or transparent; -- applied to fabrics; as, sheer muslin. 3. Being only what it seems to be; obvious; simple; mere; downright; as, sheer folly; sheer nonsense. "A sheer impossibility." De Quincey. It is not a sheer advantage to have several strings to one's bow. M. Arnold. 4. Stright up and down; vertical; prpendicular. A sheer precipice of a thousand feet. J. D. Hooker. It was at least Nine roods of sheer ascent. Wordsworth. SHEER Sheer, adv. Defn: Clean; quite; at once. [Obs.] Milton. SHEER Sheer, v. t. Etym: [See Shear.] Defn: To shear. [Obs.] Dryden. SHEER Sheer, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Sheered; p. pr. & vb. n. Sheering.] Etym: [D. sheren to shear, cut, withdraw, warp. See Shear.] Defn: To decline or deviate from the line of the proper course; to turn aside; to swerve; as, a ship sheers from her course; a horse sheers at a bicycle. To sheer off, to turn or move aside to a distance; to move away. -- To sheer up, to approach obliquely. SHEER Sheer, n. 1. (Naut.) (a) The longitudinal upward curvature of the deck, gunwale, and lines of a vessel, as when viewed from the side. (b) The position of a vessel riding at single anchor and swinging clear of it. 2. A turn or change in a course. Give the canoe a sheer and get nearer to the shore. Cooper. 3. pl. Defn: Shears See Shear. Sheer batten (Shipbuilding), a long strip of wood to guide the carpenters in following the sheer plan. -- Sheer boom, a boom slanting across a stream to direct floating logs to one side. -- Sheer hulk. See Shear hulk, under Hulk. -- Sheer plan, or Sheer draught (Shipbuilding), a projection of the lines of a vessel on a vertical longitudinal plane passing through the middle line of the vessel. -- Sheer pole (Naut.), an iron rod lashed to the shrouds just above the dead-eyes and parallel to the ratlines. -- Sheer strake (Shipbuilding), the strake under the gunwale on the top side. Totten. -- To break sheer (Naut.), to deviate from sheer, and risk fouling the anchor. SHEERLY Sheer"ly, adv. Defn: At once; absolutely. [Obs.] SHEERWATER Sheer"wa`ter, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: The shearwater. SHEET Sheet, n. Etym: [OE. shete, schete, AS. sc, sc, fr. sceát a projecting corner, a fold in a garment (akin to D. schoot sheet, bosom, lap, G. schoss bosom, lap, flap of a coat, Icel. skaut, Goth. skauts the hem of a garment); originally, that which shoots out, from the root of AS. sceótan to shoot. sq. root159. See Shoot, v. t.] Defn: In general, a large, broad piece of anything thin, as paper, cloth, etc.; a broad, thin portion of any substance; an expanded superficies. Specifically: (a) A broad piece of cloth, usually linen or cotton, used for wrapping the body or for a covering; especially, one used as an article of bedding next to the body. He fell into a trance, and saw heaven opened, and a certain vessel descending unto him, as it had been a great sheet knit at the four corners. Acts x. 10, 11. If I do die before thee, prithee, shroud me In one of those same sheets. Shak. (b) A broad piece of paper, whether folded or unfolded, whether blank or written or printed upon; hence, a letter; a newspaper, etc. (c) A single signature of a book or a pamphlet; in pl., the book itself. To this the following sheets are intended for a full and distinct answer. Waterland. (d) A broad, thinly expanded portion of metal or other substance; as, a sheet of copper, of glass, or the like; a plate; a leaf. (e) A broad expanse of water, or the like. "The two beautiful sheets of water." Macaulay. (f) A sail. Dryden. (g) (Geol.) An extensive bed of an eruptive rock intruded between, or overlying, other strata. 2. Etym: [AS. sceáta. See the Etymology above.] (Naut.) (a) A rope or chain which regulates the angle of adjustment of a sail in relation in relation to the wind; -- usually attached to the lower corner of a sail, or to a yard or a boom. (b) pl. Defn: The space in the forward or the after part