[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

a possession. Acts v. 1. The house of Jacob shall possess their possessions. Ob. 17. 4. The state of being possessed or controlled, as by an evil spirit, or violent passions; madness; frenzy; as, demoniacal possession. How long hath this possession held the man Shak. To give possession, to put in another's power or occupancy. -- To put in possession. (a) To invest with ownership or occupancy; to provide or furnish with; as, to put one in possession of facts or information. (b) (Law) To place one in charge of property recovered in ejectment or writ of entry. -- To take possession, to enter upon, or to bring within one's power or occupancy. -- Writ of possession (Law), a precept directing a sheriff to put a person in peaceable possession of property recovered in ejectment or writ of entry. POSSESSION Pos*ses"sion, v. t. Defn: To invest with property. [Obs.] POSSESSIONARY Pos*ses"sion*a*ry, a. Defn: Of or pertaining to possession; arising from possession. POSSESSIONER Pos*ses"sion*er, n. 1. A possessor; a property holder. [Obs.] "Possessioners of riches." E. Hall. Having been of old freemen and possessioners. Sir P. Sidney. 2. An invidious name for a member of any religious community endowed with property in lands, buildings, etc., as contrasted with mendicant friars. [Obs.] Wyclif. POSSESSIVAL Pos`ses*si"val, a. Defn: Of or pertaining to the possessive case; as, a possessival termination. Earle. POSSESSIVE Pos*sess"ive, a. Etym: [L. possessivus: cf. F. possessif.] Defn: Of or pertaining to possession; having or indicating possession. Possessive case (Eng. Gram.), the genitive case; the case of nouns and pronouns which expresses ownership, origin, or some possessive relation of one thing to another; as, Homer's admirers; the pear's flavor; the dog's faithfulness. -- Possessive pronoun, a pronoun denoting ownership; as, his name; her home; my book. POSSESSIVE Pos*sess"ive, n. 1. (Gram.) Defn: The possessive case. 2. (Gram.) Defn: A possessive pronoun, or a word in the possessive case. POSSESSIVELY Pos*sess"ive*ly, adv. Defn: In a possessive manner. POSSESSOR Pos*sess"or, n. Etym: [L.: cf. F. possesseur.] Defn: One who possesses; one who occupies, holds, owns, or controls; one who has actual participation or enjoyment, generally of that which is desirable; a proprietor. "Possessors of eternal glory." Law. As if he had been possessor of the whole world. Sharp. Syn. -- Owner; proprietor; master; holder; occupant. POSSESSORY Pos*sess"o*ry, a. Etym: [L. possessorius: cf. F. possessoire.] Defn: Of or pertaining to possession, either as a fact or a right; of the nature of possession; as, a possessory interest; a possessory lord. Possessory action or suit (Law), an action to regain or obtain possession of something. See under Petitory. POSSET Pos"set, n. Etym: [W. posel curdled milk, posset.] Defn: A beverage composed of hot milk curdled by some strong infusion, as by wine, etc., -- much in favor formerly. "I have drugged their posset." Shak. POSSET Pos"set, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Posseted; p. pr. & vb. n. Posseting.] 1. To curdle; to turn, as milk; to coagulate; as, to posset the blood. [Obs.] Shak. 2. To treat with possets; to pamper. [R.] "She was cosseted and posseted." O. W. Holmes. POSSIBILITY Pos`si*bil"i*ty, n.; pl. Possibilities. Etym: [F. possibilité, L. possibilitas.] 1. The quality or state of being possible; the power of happening, being, or existing. "All possibility of error." Hooker. "Latent possibilities of excellence." Johnson. 2. That which is possible; a contingency; a thing or event that may not happen; a contingent interest, as in real or personal estate. South. Burrill. POSSIBLE Pos"si*ble, a. Etym: [F., fr. L. possibilis, fr. posse to be able, to have power; potis able, capable + esse to be. See Potent, Am, and cf. Host a landlord.] Defn: Capable of existing or occurring, or of being conceived or thought of; able to happen; capable of being done; not contrary to the nature of things; -- sometimes used to express extreme improbability; barely able to be, or to come to pass; as, possibly he is honest, as it is possible that Judas meant no wrong. With God all things are possible. Matt. xix. 26. Syn. -- Practicable; likely. See Practicable. POSSIBLY Pos"si*bly, adv. Defn: In a possible manner; by possible means; especially, by extreme, remote, or improbable intervention, change, or exercise of power; by a chance; perhaps; as, possibly he may recover. Can we . . . possibly his love desert Milton. When possibly I can, I will return. Shak. POSSUM Pos"sum, n. Etym: [Shortened from opossum.] (Zoöl.) Defn: An opossum. [Colloq. U. S.] To play possum, To act possum, to feign ignorance, indifference or inattention, with the intent to deceive; to dissemble; -- in allusion to the habit of the opossum, which feigns death when attacked or alarmed. POST- Post-. Etym: [L. post behind, after; cf. Skr. paçcabehind, afterwards.] Defn: A prefix signifying behind, back, after; as, postcommissure, postdot, postscript. POST Post, a. Etym: [F. aposter to place in a post or position, generally for a bad purpose.] Defn: Hired to do what is wrong; suborned. [Obs.] Sir E. Sandys. POST Post, n. Etym: [AS., fr. L. postis, akin to ponere, positum, to place. See Position, and cf. 4th Post.] 1. A piece of timber, metal, or other solid substance, fixed, or to be fixed, firmly in an upright position, especially when intended as a stay or support to something else; a pillar; as, a hitching post; a fence post; the posts of a house. They shall take of the blood, and strike it on the two side posts and on the upper doorpost of the houses. Ex. xii. 7. Then by main force pulled up, and on his shoulders bore, The gates of Azza, post and massy bar. Milton. Unto his order he was a noble post. Chaucer. Note: Post, in the sense of an upright timber or strut, is used in composition, in such words as king-post, queen-post, crown-post, gatepost, etc. 2. The doorpost of a victualer's shop or inn, on which were chalked the scores of customers; hence, a score; a debt. [Obs.] When God sends coin I will discharge your post. S. Rowlands. From pillar to post. See under Pillar. -- Knight of the post. See under Knight. -- Post hanger (Mach.), a bearing for a revolving shaft, adapted to be fastened to a post. -- Post hole, a hole in the ground to set the foot of a post in. -- Post mill, a form of windmill so constructed that the whole fabric rests on a vertical axis firmly fastened to the ground, and capable of being turned as the direction of the wind varies. -- Post and stall (Coal Mining), a mode of working in which pillars of coal are left to support the roof of the mine. POST Post, n. Etym: [F. poste, LL. posta station, post (where horses were kept), properly, a fixed or set place, fem. fr. L. positus placed, p. p. of ponere. See Position, and cf. Post a pillar.] 1. The place at which anything is stopped, placed, or fixed; a station. Specifically: (a) A station, or one of a series of stations, established for the refreshment and accommodation of travelers on some recognized route; as, a stage or railway post. (b) A military station; the place at which a soldier or a body of troops is stationed; also, the troops at such a station. (c) The piece of ground to which a sentinel's walk is limited. 2. A messenger who goes from station; an express; especially, one who is employed by the government to carry letters and parcels regularly from one place to another; a letter carrier; a postman. In certain places there be always fresh posts, to carry that further which is brought unto them by the other. Abp. Abbot. I fear my Julia would not deign my lines, Receiving them from such a worthless post. Shak. 3. An established conveyance for letters from one place or station to another; especially, the governmental system in any country for carrying and distributing letters and parcels; the post office; the mail; hence, the carriage by which the mail is transported. I send you the fair copy of the poem on dullness, which I should not care to hazard by the common post. Pope. 4. Haste or speed, like that of a messenger or mail carrier. [Obs.] "In post he came." Shak. 5. One who has charge of a station, especially of a postal station. [Obs.] He held office of postmaster, or, as it was then called, post, for several years. Palfrey. 6. A station, office, or position of service, trust, or emolument; as, the post of duty; the post of danger. The post of honor is a private station. Addison. 7. A size of printing and writing paper. See the Table under Paper. Post and pair, an old game at cards, in which each player a hand of three cards. B. Jonson. -- Post bag, a mail bag. -- Post bill, a bill of letters mailed by a postmaster. -- Post chaise, or Post coach, a carriage usually