[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

animal nature, as contrasted with the higher or moral powers, or that which is spiritual; being in a state of nature; unregenerate. The natural man receiveth not the things of the Spirit of God. 1 Cor. ii. 14. 9. (Math.) Defn: Belonging to, to be taken in, or referred to, some system, in which the base is 1; -- said or certain functions or numbers; as, natural numbers, those commencing at 1; natural sines, cosines, etc., those taken in arcs whose radii are 1. 10. (Mus.) (a) Produced by natural organs, as those of the human throat, in distinction from instrumental music. (b) of or pertaining to a key which has neither a flat nor a sharp for its signature, as the key of C major. (c) Applied to an air or modulation of harmony which moves by easy and smooth transitions, digressing but little from the original key. Moore (Encyc. of Music). Natural day, the space of twenty-four hours. Chaucer. -- Natural fats, Natural gas, etc. See under Fat, Gas. etc. -- Natural Harmony (Mus.), the harmony of the triad or common chord. -- Natural history, in its broadest sense, a history or description of nature as a whole, incuding the sciences of botany, zoölogy, geology, mineralogy, paleontology, chemistry, and physics. In recent usage the term is often restricted to the sciences of botany and zoölogy collectively, and sometimes to the science of zoology alone. -- Natural law, that instinctive sense of justice and of right and wrong, which is native in mankind, as distinguished from specifically revealed divine law, and formulated human law. -- Natural modulation (Mus.), transition from one key to its relative keys. -- Natural order. (Nat. Hist.) See under order. -- Natural person. (Law) See under person, n. -- Natural philosophy, originally, the study of nature in general; in modern usage, that branch of physical science, commonly called physics, which treats of the phenomena and laws of matter and considers those effects only which are unaccompanied by any change of a chemical nature; -- contrasted with mental and moral philosophy. -- Natural scale (Mus.), a scale which is written without flats or sharps. Model would be a preferable term, as less likely to mislead, the so-called artificial scales (scales represented by the use of flats and sharps) being equally natural with the so-called natural scale -- Natural science, natural history, in its broadest sense; -- used especially in contradistinction to mental or moral science. -- Natural selection (Biol.), a supposed operation of natural laws analogous, in its operation and results, to designed selection in breeding plants and animals, and resulting in the survival of the fittest. The theory of natural selection supposes that this has been brought about mainly by gradual changes of environment which have led to corresponding changes of structure, and that those forms which have become so modified as to be best adapted to the changed environment have tended to survive and leave similarly adapted descendants, while those less perfectly adapted have tended to die out though lack of fitness for the environment, thus resulting in the survival of the fittest. See Darwinism. -- Natural system (Bot. & Zoöl.), a classification based upon real affinities, as shown in the structure of all parts of the organisms, and by their embryology. It should be borne in mind that the natural system of botany is natural only in the constitution of its genera, tribes, orders, etc., and in its grand divisions. Gray. -- Natural theology, or Natural religion, that part of theological science which treats of those evidences of the existence and attributes of the Supreme Being which are exhibited in nature; -- distinguished from revealed religion. See Quotation under Natural, a., 3. -- Natural vowel, the vowel sound heard in urn, furl, sir, her, etc.; -- so called as being uttered in the easiest open position of the mouth organs. See Neutral vowel, under Neutral and Guide to Pronunciation, § 17. Syn. -- See Native. NATURAL Nat"u*ral, n. 1. A native; an aboriginal. [Obs.] Sir W. Raleigh. 2. pl. Defn: Natural gifts, impulses, etc. [Obs.] Fuller. 3. One born without the usual powers of reason or understanding; an idiot. "The minds of naturals." Locke. 4. (Mus.) Defn: A character [] used to contradict, or to remove the effect of, a sharp or flat which has preceded it, and to restore the unaltered note. NATURALISM Nat"u*ral*ism, n. Etym: [Cf. F. naturalisme.] 1. A state of nature; conformity to nature. 2. (Metaph.) Defn: The doctrine of those who deny a supernatural agency in the miracles and revelations recorded in the Bible, and in spiritual influences; also, any system of philosophy which refers the phenomena of nature to a blind force or forces acting necessarily or according to fixed laws, excluding origination or direction by one intelligent will. NATURALIST Nat"u*ral*ist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. naturaliste.] 1. One versed in natural science; a student of natural history, esp. of the natural history of animals. 2. One who holds or maintains the doctrine of naturalism in religion. H. Bushnell. NATURALISTIC Nat`u*ral*is"tic, a. 1. Belonging to the doctrines of naturalism. 2. Closely resembling nature; realistic. "Naturalistic bit of pantomime." W. D. Howells. NATURALITY Nat`u*ral"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. naturalitas: cf. F. naturalité.] Defn: Nature; naturalness. [R.] NATURALIZATION Nat`u*ral*i*za"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. naturalisation.] Defn: The act or process of naturalizing, esp. of investing an alien with the rights and privileges of a native or citizen; also, the state of being naturalized. NATURALIZE Nat"u*ral*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Naturalized; p. pr. & vb. n. Naturalizing.] Etym: [Cf. F. naturaliser. See Natural.] 1. To make natural; as, custom naturalizes labor or study. 2. To confer the rights and privileges of a native subject or citizen on; to make as if native; to adopt, as a foreigner into a nation or state, and place in the condition of a native subject. 3. To receive or adopt as native, natural, or vernacular; to make one's own; as, to naturalize foreign words. 4. To adapt; to accustom; to habituate; to acclimate; to cause to grow as under natural conditions. Its wearer suggested that pears and peaches might yet be naturalized in the New England climate. Hawthorne. NATURALIZE Nat"u*ral*ize, v. i. 1. To become as if native. 2. To explain phenomena by natural agencies or laws, to the exclusion of the supernatural. Infected by this naturalizing tendency. H. Bushnell. NATURALLY Nat"u*ral*ly, adv. Defn: In a natural manner or way; according to the usual course of things; spontaneously. NATURALNESS Nat"u*ral*ness, n. Defn: The state or quality of being natural; conformity to nature. NATURAL STEEL Nat"u*ral steel. Defn: Steel made by the direct refining of cast iron in a finery, or, as wootz, by a direct process from the ore. NATURE Na"ture, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. natura, fr. natus born, produced, p.p. of nasci to be born. See Nation.] 1. The existing system of things; the world of matter, or of matter and mind; the creation; the universe. But looks through nature up to nature's God. Pope. Nature has caprices which art can not imitate. Macaulay. 2. The personified sum and order of causes and effects; the powers which produce existing phenomena, whether in the total or in detail; the agencies which carry on the processes of creation or of being; -- often conceived of as a single and separate entity, embodying the total of all finite agencies and forces as disconnected from a creating or ordering intelligence. I oft admire How Nature, wise and frugal, could commit Such disproportions. Milton. 3. The established or regular course of things; usual order of events; connection of cause and effect. 4. Conformity to that which is natural, as distinguished from that which is artifical, or forced, or remote from actual experience. One touch of nature makes the whole world kin. Shak. 5. The sum of qualities and attributes which make a person or thing what it is, as distinct from others; native character; inherent or essential qualities or attributes; peculiar constitution or quality of being. Thou, therefore, whom thou only canst redeem, Their nature also to thy nature join, And be thyself man among men on earth. Milton. 6. Hence: Kind, sort; character; quality. A dispute of this nature caused mischief. Dryden. 7. Physical constitution or existence; the vital powers; the natural life. "My days of nature." Shak. Oppressed nature sleeps. Shak. 8. Natural affection or reverence. Have we not seen The murdering son ascend his parent's bed, Through violated nature foce his way Pope. 9. Constitution or quality of mind or character. A born devil, on whose nature Nurture can never stick. Shak. That reverence which is due to a superior nature. Addison. Good nature, Ill nature. see under Good and Ill. -- In a state of nature. (a) Naked as when born; nude. (b) In a condition of sin; unregenerate. (c) Untamed; uncvilized. -- Nature printng, a process of printing from metallic or other plates which have received an impression, as by heavy pressure, of