[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

statutes mixed; statutes real applying to immovables; statutes personal to movables; and statutes mixed to both classes of property. 2. An act of a corporation or of its founder, intended as a permanent rule or law; as, the statutes of a university. 3. An assemblage of farming servants (held possibly by statute) for the purpose of being hired; -- called also statute fair. [Eng.] Cf. 3d Mop, 2. Halliwell. Statute book, a record of laws or legislative acts. Blackstone. -- Statute cap, a kind of woolen cap; -- so called because enjoined to be worn by a statute, dated in 1571, in behalf of the trade of cappers. [Obs.] Halliwell. -- Statute fair. See Statute, n., 3, above. -- Statute labor, a definite amount of labor required for the public service in making roads, bridges, etc., as in certain English colonies. -- Statute merchant (Eng. Law), a bond of record pursuant to the stat. 13 Edw. I., acknowledged in form prescribed, on which, if not paid at the day, an execution might be awarded against the body, lands, and goods of the debtor, and the obligee might hold the lands until out of the rents and profits of them the debt was satisfied; -- called also a pocket judgment. It is now fallen into disuse. Tomlins. Bouvier. -- Statute mile. See under Mile. -- Statute of limitations (Law), a statute assigned a certain time, after which rights can not be enforced by action. -- Statute staple, a bond of record acknowledged before the mayor of the staple, by virtue of which the creditor may, on nonpayment, forthwith have execution against the body, lands, and goods of the debtor, as in the statute merchant. It is now disused. Blackstone. Syn. -- Act; regulation; edict; decree. See Law. STATUTORY Stat"u*to*ry, a. Defn: Enacted by statute; depending on statute for its authority; as, a statutory provision. STAUNCH; STAUNCHLY; STAUNCHNESS Staunch, Staunch"ly, Staunch"ness, etc. Defn: See Stanch, Stanchly, etc. STAUROLITE Stau"ro*lite, n. Etym: [Gr. -lite.] (Min.) Defn: A mineral of a brown to black color occurring in prismatic crystals, often twinned so as to form groups resembling a cross. It is a silicate of aluminia and iron, and is generally found imbedded in mica schist. Called also granatite, and grenatite. STAUROLITIC Stau`ro*lit"ic, a. (Min.) Defn: Of or pertaining to staurolite; resembling or containing staurolite. STAUROSCOPE Stau"ro*scope, n. Etym: [Gr. -scope.] (Crystallog.) Defn: An optical instrument used in determining the position of the planes of light-vibration in sections of crystals. STAUROTIDE Stau"ro*tide, n. Etym: [F. staurotide, from Gr. (Min.) Defn: Staurolite. STAVE Stave, n. Etym: [From Staff, and corresponding to the pl. staves. See Staff.] 1. One of a number of narrow strips of wood, or narrow iron plates, placed edge to edge to form the sides, covering, or lining of a vessel or structure; esp., one of the strips which form the sides of a cask, a pail, etc. 2. One of the cylindrical bars of a lantern wheel; one of the bars or rounds of a rack, a ladder, etc. 3. A metrical portion; a stanza; a staff. Let us chant a passing stave In honor of that hero brave. Wordsworth. 4. (Mus.) Defn: The five horizontal and parallel lines on and between which musical notes are written or pointed; the staff. [Obs.] Stave jointer, a machine for dressing the edges of staves. STAVE Stave, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Staved or Stove (; p. pr. & vb. n. Staving.] Etym: [From Stave, n., or Staff, n.] 1. To break in a stave or the staves of; to break a hole in; to burst; -- often with in; as, to stave a cask; to stave in a boat. 2. To push, as with a staff; -- with off. The condition of a servant staves him off to a distance. South. 3. To delay by force or craft; to drive away; -- usually with off; as, to stave off the execution of a project. And answered with such craft as women use, Guilty or guilties, to stave off a chance That breaks upon them perilously. Tennyson. 4. To suffer, or cause, to be lost by breaking the cask. All the wine in the city has been staved. Sandys. 5. To furnish with staves or rundles. Knolles. 6. To render impervious or solid by driving with a calking iron; as, to stave lead, or the joints of pipes into which lead has been run. To stave and tail, in bear baiting, (to stave) to interpose with the staff, doubtless to stop the bear; (to tail) to hold back the dog by the tail. Nares. STAVE Stave, v. i. Defn: To burst in pieces by striking against something; to dash into fragments. Like a vessel of glass she stove and sank. Longfellow. STAVES Staves, n.; Defn: pl. of Staff. "Banners, scarves and staves." R. Browning. Also (stavz), Defn: pl. of Stave. STAVESACRE Staves"a`cre, n. Etym: [Corrupted from NL. staphis agria, Gr. (Bot.) Defn: A kind of larkspur (Delphinium Staphysagria), and its seeds, which are violently purgative and emetic. They are used as a parasiticide, and in the East for poisoning fish. STAVEWOOD Stave`wood`, n. (Bot.) Defn: A tall tree (Simaruba amara) growing in tropical America. It is one of the trees which yields quassia. STAVING Stav"ing, n. Defn: A cassing or lining of staves; especially, one encircling a water wheel. STAW Staw, v. i. Etym: [Cf. Dan. staae to stand, Sw. stå. *163.] Defn: To be fixed or set; to stay. [Prov. Eng.] STAY Stay, n. Etym: [AS. stæg, akin to D., G., Icel., Sw., & Dan. stag; cf. OF. estai, F. étai, of Teutonic origin.] (Naut.) Defn: A large, strong rope, employed to support a mast, by being extended from the head of one mast down to some other, or to some part of the vessel. Those which lead forward are called fore-and-aft stays; those which lead to the vessel's side are called backstays. See Illust. of Ship. In stays, or Hove in stays (Naut.), in the act or situation of staying, or going about from one tack to another. R. H. Dana, Jr. -- Stay holes (Naut.), openings in the edge of a staysail through which the hanks pass which join it to the stay. -- Stay tackle (Naut.), a tackle attached to a stay and used for hoisting or lowering heavy articles over the side. -- To miss stays (Naut.), to fail in the attempt to go about. Totten. -- Triatic stay (Naut.), a rope secured at the ends to the heads of the foremast and mainmast with thimbles spliced to its bight into which the stay tackles hook. STAY Stay, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Stayed or Staid (; p. pr. & vb. n. Staying.] Etym: [OF. estayer, F. étayer to prop, fr. OF. estai, F. étai, a prop, probably fr. OD. stade, staeye, a prop, akin to E. stead; or cf. stay a rope to support a mast. Cf. Staid, a., Stay, v. i.] 1. To stop from motion or falling; to prop; to fix firmly; to hold up; to support. Aaron and Hur stayed up his hands, the one on the one side, and the other on the other side. Ex. xvii. 12. Sallows and reeds . . . for vineyards useful found To stay thy vines. Dryden. 2. To support from sinking; to sustain with strength; to satisfy in part or for the time. He has devoured a whole loaf of bread and butter, and it has not staid his stomach for a minute. Sir W. Scott. 3. To bear up under; to endure; to support; to resist successfully. She will not stay the siege of loving terms, Nor bide the encounter of assailing eyes. Shak. 4. To hold from proceeding; to withhold; to restrain; to stop; to hold. Him backward overthrew and down him stayed With their rude hands grisly grapplement. Spenser. All that may stay their minds from thinking that true which they heartly wish were false. Hooker. 5. To hinde Your ships are stayed at Venice. Shak. This business staid me in London almost a week. Evelyn. I was willing to stay my reader on an argument that appeared to me new. Locke. 6. To remain for the purpose of; to wait for. "I stay dinner there." Shak. 7. To cause to cease; to put an end to. Stay your strife. Shak. For flattering planets seemed to say This child should ills of ages stay. Emerson. 8. (Engin.) Defn: To fasten or secure with stays; as, to stay a flat sheet in a steam boiler. 9. (Naut.) Defn: To tack, as a vessel, so that the other side of the vessel shall be presented to the wind. To stay a mast (Naut.), to incline it forward or aft, or to one side, by the stays and backstays. STAY Stay, v. i. Etym: [*163. See Stay to hold up, prop.] 1. To remain; to continue in a place; to abide fixed for a space of