[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

horse. Shak. 2. Sea gravel mixed with sand. [Prov. Eng.] DOBBY Dob"by, n. (Weaving) Defn: An apparatus resembling a Jacquard for weaving small figures (usually about 12 - 16 threads, seldom more than 36 - 40 threads). DOBCHICK Dob"chick`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: See Dabchick. DOBELL'S SOLUTION Do*bell's" so*lu"tion. (Med.) Defn: An aqueous solution of carbolic acid, borax, sodium bicarbonate, and glycerin, used as a spray in diseases of the nose and throat. DOBSON Dob"son, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: The aquatic larva of a large neuropterous insect (Corydalus cornutus), used as bait in angling. See Hellgamite. DOBULE Dob"ule, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: The European dace. DOCENT Do"cent, a. Etym: [L. docens, -entis, p. pr. of docere to teach.] Defn: Serving to instruct; teaching. [Obs.] DOCETAE Do*ce"tæ, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. (Eccl. Hist.) Defn: Ancient heretics who held that Christ's body was merely a phantom or appearance. DOCETIC Do*cet"ic, a. Defn: Pertaining to, held by, or like, the Docetæ. "Docetic Gnosticism." Plumptre. DOCETISM Doc"e*tism, n. (Eccl. Hist.) Defn: The doctrine of the Docetæ. DOCHMIAC Doch"mi*ac, a. (Pros.) Defn: Pertaining to, or containing, the dochmius. DOCHMIUS Doch"mi*us, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. (Pros.) Defn: A foot of five syllables (usually DOCIBILITY; DOCIBLENESS Doc`i*bil"i*ty, Doc"i*ble*ness, n. Etym: [L. docibilitas.] Defn: Aptness for being taught; teachableness; docility. To persons of docibility, the real character may be easily taught in a few days. Boyle. The docibleness of dogs in general. Walton. DOCIBLE Doc"i*ble, a. Etym: [L. docibilis, fr. docere to teach.] Defn: Easily taught or managed; teachable. Milton. DOCILE Doc"ile, a. Etym: [L. docilis,fr. docere to teach; cf. Gr. discere to learn, Gr. docile. Cf. Doctor, Didactic, Disciple.] 1. Teachable; easy to teach; docible. [Obs.] 2. Disposed to be taught; tractable; easily managed; as, a docile child. The elephant is at once docible and docile. C. J. Smith. DOCILITY Do*cil"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. docilitas, fr. docilis: cf. F. docilité.] 1. teachableness; aptness for being taught; docibleness. [Obs. or R.] 2. Willingness to be taught; tractableness. The humble docility of little children is, in the New Testament, represented as a necessary preparative to the reception of the Christian faith. Beattie. DOCIMACY Doc"i*ma*cy, n. Etym: [Gr. docimasie.] Defn: The art or practice of applying tests to ascertain the nature, quality, etc., of objects, as of metals or ores, of medicines, or of facts pertaining to physiology. DOCIMASTIC Doc`i*mas"tic, a. Etym: [Gr. docimastique.] Defn: Proving by experiments or tests. Docimastic art, metallurgy, or the art of assaying metals; the art of separating metals from foreign matters, and determining the nature and quantity of metallic substances contained in any ore or mineral. DOCIMOLOGY Doc`i*mol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -logy.] Defn: A treatise on the art of testing, as in assaying metals, etc. DOCITY Doc"i*ty, n. Defn: Teachableness. [Prov. Eng. & Local, U. S.] DOCK Dock, n. Etym: [AS. docce; of uncertain origin; cf. G. docken- blätter, Gael. dogha burdock, OF. doque; perh. akin to L. daucus, daucum, Gr. Burdock.] (Bot.) Defn: A genus of plants (Rumex), some species of which are well-known weeds which have a long taproot and are difficult of extermination. Note: Yellow dock is Rumex crispus, with smooth curly leaves and yellow root, which that of other species is used medicinally as an astringent and tonic. DOCK Dock, n. Etym: [Cf. Icel. dockr a short tail, Fries. dok a little bundle or bunch, G. docke bundle, skein, a short and thick column.] 1. The solid part of an animal's tail, as distinguished from the hair; the stump of a tail; the part of a tail left after clipping or cutting. Grew. 2. A case of leather to cover the clipped or cut tail of a horse. DOCK Dock, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Docked; p. pr. & vb. n. Docking.] Etym: [See Dock a tail. Cf. W. tociaw, and twciaw, to dock, clip.] 1. to cut off, as the end of a thing; to curtail; to cut short; to clip; as, to dock the tail of a horse. His top was docked like a priest biforn. Chaucer. 2. To cut off a part from; to shorten; to deduct from; to subject to a deduction; as, to dock one's wages. 3. To cut off, bar, or destroy; as, to dock an entail. DOCK Dock, n. Etym: [Akin to D. dok; of uncertain origin; cf. LL. doga ditch, L. doga ditch, L. doga sort of vessel, Gr. 1. An artificial basin or an inclosure in connection with a harbor or river, -- used for the reception of vessels, and provided with gates for keeping in or shutting out the tide. 2. The slip or water way extending between two piers or projecting wharves, for the reception of ships; -- sometimes including the piers themselves; as, to be down on the dock. 3. The place in court where a criminal or accused person stands. Balance dock, a kind of floating dock which is kept level by pumping water out of, or letting it into, the compartments of side chambers. -- Dry dock, a dock from which the water may be shut or pumped out, especially, one in the form of a chamber having walls and floor, often of masonry and communicating with deep water, but having appliances for excluding it; -- used in constructing or repairing ships. The name includes structures used for the examination, repairing, or building of vessels, as graving docks, floating docks, hydraulic docks, etc. -- Floating dock, a dock which is made to become buoyant, and, by floating, to lift a vessel out of water. -- Graving dock, a dock for holding a ship for graving or cleaning the bottom, etc. -- Hydraulic dock, a dock in which a vessel is raised clear of the water by hydraulic presses. -- Naval dock, a dock connected with which are naval stores, materials, and all conveniences for the construction and repair of ships. -- Sectional dock, a form of floating dock made in separate sections or caissons. -- Slip dock, a dock having a sloping floor that extends from deep water to above high-water mark, and upon which is a railway on which runs a cradle carrying the ship. -- Wet dock, a dock where the water is shut in, and kept at a given level, to facilitate the loading and unloading of ships; -- also sometimes used as a place of safety; a basin. DOCK Dock, v. t. Defn: To draw, law, or place (a ship) in a dock, for repairing, cleaning the bottom, etc. DOCKAGE Dock"age, n. Defn: A charge for the use of a dock. DOCK-CRESS Dock"-cress`, n. (Bot.) Defn: Nipplewort. DOCKET Dock"et, n. Etym: [Dock to cut off + dim. suffix -et.] 1. A small piece of paper or parchment, containing the heads of a writing; a summary or digest. 2. A bill tied to goods, containing some direction, as the name of the owner, or the place to which they are to be sent; a label. Bailey. 3. (Law) (a) An abridged entry of a judgment or proceeding in an action, or register or such entries; a book of original, kept by clerks of courts, containing a formal list of the names of parties, and minutes of the proceedings, in each case in court. (b) (U. S.) A list or calendar of causes ready for hearing or trial, prepared for the use of courts by the clerks. 4. A list or calendar of business matters to be acted on in any assembly. On the docket, in hand; in the plan; under consideration; in process of execution or performance. [Colloq.] DOCKET Dock"et, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Docketed; p. pr. & vb. n. Docketing.] 1. To make a brief abstract of (a writing) and indorse it on the back of the paper, or to indorse the title or contents on the back of; to summarize; as, to docket letters and papers. Chesterfield. 2. (Law) (a) To make a brief abstract of and inscribe in a book; as, judgments regularly docketed. (b) To enter or inscribe in a docket, or list of causes for trial. 3. To mark with a ticket; as, to docket goods. DOCKYARD Dock"yard`, n. Defn: A yard or storage place for all sorts of naval stores and timber for shipbuilding. DOCOGLOSSA Doc`o*glos"sa, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.) Defn: An order of gastropods, including the true limpets, and having the teeth on the odontophore or lingual ribbon. DOCQUET Doc"quet, n. & v. Defn: See Docket. DOCTOR Doc"tor, n. Etym: [OF. doctur, L. doctor, teacher, fr. docere to teach. See Docile.] 1. A teacher; one skilled in a profession, or branch of knowledge learned man. [Obs.] One of the doctors of Italy, Nicholas Macciavel. Bacon. 2. An academical title, originally meaning a men so well versed in his department as to be qualified to teach it. Hence: One who has taken the highest degree conferred by a university or college, or has received a diploma of the highest degree; as, a doctor of divinity, of law, of medicine, of music, or