[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #33642]

fire? Let's see your license." Walt considered this information. He removed the air from this policeman's lungs; from the lungs of the policeman in the car. When they were very unconscious, he let them have air again. He experimented with a few buttons until he found the reverse. He backed up a few yards, circled out around the police car, and continued. The policemen were still unconscious. * * * * * Mr. Green, the producer, stopped in front of the bank. With hurried thanks, Julia scrambled out. Pathetically he called after her: "But we could--" Inside the revolving doors, she pattered across the inlaid floor to the teller's cage still open for business. If I can just get out of here alive! she thought. The high, vaulted ceiling--dim and shadowy above the cool lights--seemed to echo her thoughts: get out of here alive, get out alive, alive. She gave her name crisply and fumbled in her handbag for identification. "I want to withdraw my money." "Yes, Miss. Your account is with this branch?" "Yes." She handed her identification and her check book to him. While she twisted nervously, he phoned to verify her account. She could feel Walt creeping up on her. Her skin crawled. The revolving door was motionless. That meant nothing. He could walk _through_ it. There was no easy way of telling how he would strike until the last moment. It would be so swift that she would never feel the blow at all. She stared, fascinated, at the ink well across the room. She imagined it suddenly ripped out and hurled at her. She shivered. She tried to teleport it herself. It did not move. Cold sweat began to ooze from her pores. Brakes squealed in the street outside. She ran her hands along the carrying strap of her handbag. Her mouth was dry. I'm too scared to spit! she thought. I've heard of that. I didn't believe it. It's true. "For God's sake, hurry!" "Yes, Miss," the teller said. He eyed her suspiciously. How long can this go on? she thought despairingly. He'll be here in another minute! "I have the amount. It's the same as your check stub shows," the teller said. "You want it all?" "Yes." "Just take this over to the table, there, and fill it in." Oh, God! she thought. She crossed to the table. Her hand was shaking. The free pen blotted. She ripped out the check and crumpled it into a ball. Her breathing was shallow. She found her own pen. Shakily she filled in another check. The teller looked at it. He waved it dry. He held it up. "Just a, moment, Miss. I'd like to verify the signature." Her nails dug into her palms. She moved her feet uneasily. She glanced toward the door. She fumbled in her handbag for a cigarette. She found a stale pack, shook one out. She lit it with a safety match and extinguished the match with a nervous flick of her arm. She inhaled. The invasion. For the first time since she'd left the hotel it reoccurred to her. Oh, Lord! she thought. How much time before that! She dropped her cigarette and ground it out. The clerk was bending over, comparing signatures. I've got to do something about the invasion! I've got to tell somebody! But ... but ... how can I ever convince anyone? They'd think I was crazy. They'd detain me for questioning. They'd lock me up. If they did, he could come upon me and I couldn't even run! Her face was bloodless. If I had my powers back.... She began to pace. Two steps one way; two steps back; two steps the other way. I could ... I could show them how to operate on a human to make the bridge; I could talk to a surgeon.... Could I? Her mind was fuzzy. It was no longer easy to remember. So many compartments were no longer available. Do I remember how? You ... you.... She concentrated with every fiber of her being. "Your signature is shakey," the clerk said. She whirled on him. Her lips trembled. She choked back hot words. "I'm upset tonight," she said weakly. He grunted. _If he catches me_, she thought, _I'll be dead._ He'll kill me! I'll never be able to convince anyone then! Hurry, hurry, hurry! "How do you want the money?" the clerk asked. "Any way! Any way!" He began to count bills. If I stand still, he'll catch me! she moaned to herself. Even now.... She glanced toward the door. "There," the clerk said. Trembling, she stuffed bills into her handbag. She raced for the entrance. * * * * * She burst from the revolving doors. She cried out to the taxi idling across the street. The driver started the motor. She ran across the street to the car. "Take me to a car lot that's open!" "Yes, Lady." She fumbled out a bill and threw it at him. She settled back in the seat. "Hurry!" He looked at the bill. "_Yes, indeed._" He started the car. "I sure will." The cab whirled away and U-turned toward Vermont. She felt better to be moving. And ten minutes later she was arguing with a salesman. "This will do," she insisted. "I don't want a triple-guarantee, a road test, a service check, a--" "I'll have to make out a bill of sale." "All I want to know is: Is the gas tank full?" Indignantly, the salesman said: "Of course." "Mail me the bill of sale! Tear it up! I don't care! Here--Here's my hotel." After thrusting the card on him, she began to count money. "The keys are in the ignition. I'll get your extra set. The license--" He began to recount the money. She got behind the wheel, snapped on the lights, pressed the ignition button. The motor coughed and roared. She spun the car out of the lot. She was weak with relief. Maybe I can outrun him! I hope. _I've got to!_ I'll get as far away as I can. Then I'll ... I'll have to take a chance waiting for an airplane. Then ... then ... when my money gives out.... I can't hope to run forever. She shuddered. * * * * * Walt crawled out of the wreck. It seemed to be a miracle he was unhurt. He had switched the car to automatic drive as he had seen the driver on the desert do; he had not known that there was no automatic-drive beam on that particular stretch of highway. At the first curve--in a heart beat of time; too fast for him to avert it--the car had hurtled the road and plowed into the embankment. Walt cursed and shook his head and closed his eyes tightly, gathering his thoughts. A few minutes later a car with intensely bright headlights stopped to give assistance. Walt threw the driver out and slipped behind the wheel. In a moment he knew that he had a powerful motor under him. CHAPTER VIII An hour later (two of the twelve hours were gone) Julia was still free. She had weaved and twisted across the city. She had crossed and recrossed the super-highways and the local speedways. She had fled up ramps and through under passes. She had no way of telling how near Walt was; or what moment and from what direction death might strike. She did not believe that he could reach out through space to snatch her life; if he tried teleportation, she was steeled to resist. The lifeless, glittering windows, the dull glare of overhead and curb lights, the shuttle movement of traffic, the heavy, motionless air--all these combined into bristling menace. Her foot strained against the accelerator; her muscles ached over the wheel. She hoped she had confused him. Now she streamed for the open highway. She settled the car into a traffic slot on the north-bound coast super-highway. She switched the car on automatic and tried to relax. The road curved gently toward the west to pick up the coast line. Soon the moonlit breakers hissed on white sand beaches. The ocean lay dark and mysterious toward the far horizon. She prayed that Walt would not guess for long minutes that she had left the city; that he would lose more precious minutes locating the super-highway. San Francisco was six hours ahead of her. * * * * * Walt was continually losing himself in a maze of Los Angeles streets. Ones that seemed to promise to deliver him cross-town to interrupt Julia in her erratic course twined away in improper directions. Occasionally he neared her. But she darted away each time: as if with the primeval instinct of a hunted animal. At last he stopped the car and cried to a pedestrian across the street: "Is there any place I can get a map of the city?" "Ask inna filling station." Walt snarled. And five minutes later he found