[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

or state of being prior or antecedent in time, or of preceding something else; as, priority of application. 2. Precedence; superior rank. Shak. Priority of debts, a superior claim to payment, or a claim to payment before others. Syn. -- Antecedence; precedence; preëminence. PRIORLY Pri"or*ly, adv. Defn: Previously. [R.] Geddes. PRIORSHIP Pri"or*ship, n. Defn: The state or office of prior; priorate. PRIORY Pri"o*ry, n.; pl. Priories. Etym: [Cf. LL. prioria. See Prior, n.] Defn: A religious house presided over by a prior or prioress; -- sometimes an offshoot of, an subordinate to, an abbey, and called also cell, and obedience. See Cell, 2. Note: Of such houses there were two sorts: one where the prior was chosen by the inmates, and governed as independently as an abbot in an abbey; the other where the priory was subordinate to an abbey, and the prior was placed or displaced at the will of the abbot. Alien priory, a small religious house dependent on a large monastery in some other country. Syn. -- See Cloister. PRIS Pris, n. Defn: See Price, and 1st Prize. [Obs.] PRISAGE Pris"age (; 48), n. Etym: [OF. prisage a praising, valuing, taxing; cf. LL. prisagium prisage; or from F. prise a taking, capture, prize. See Prize.] (O. Eng. Law) (a) A right belonging to the crown of England, of taking two tuns of wine from every ship importing twenty tuns or more, -- one before and one behind the mast. By charter of Edward I. butlerage was substituted for this. Blackstone. (b) The share of merchandise taken as lawful prize at sea which belongs to the king or admiral. PRISCILLIANIST Pris*cil"lian*ist, n. (Eccl. Hist.) Defn: A follower of Priscillian, bishop of Avila in Spain, in the fourth century, who mixed various elements of Gnosticism and Manicheism with Christianity. PRISE Prise, n. Defn: An enterprise. [Obs.] Spenser. PRISE Prise, n. & v. Defn: See Prize, n., 5. Also Prize, v. t. PRISER Pris"er, n. Defn: See 1st Prizer. [Obs.] PRISM Prism, n. Etym: [L. prisma, Gr. prisme.] 1. (Geom.) Defn: A solid whose bases or ends are any similar, equal, and parallel plane figures, and whose sides are parallelograms. Note: Prisms of different forms are often named from the figure of their bases; as, a triangular prism, a quadrangular prism, a rhombic prism, etc. 2. (Opt.) Defn: A transparent body, with usually three rectangular plane faces or sides, and two equal and parallel triangular ends or bases; -- used in experiments on refraction, dispersion, etc. 3. (Crystallog.) Defn: A form the planes of which are parallel to the vertical axis. See Form, n., 13. Achromatic prism (Opt.), a prism composed usually of two prisms of different transparent substances which have unequal dispersive powers, as two different kinds of glass, especially flint glass and crown glass, the difference of dispersive power being compensated by giving them different refracting angles, so that, when placed together so as to have opposite relative positions, a ray of light passed through them is refracted or bent into a new position, but is free from color. -- Nicol's prism, Nicol prism. Etym: [So called from Wm. Nicol, of Edinburgh, who first proposed it.] (Opt.) An instrument for experiments in polarization, consisting of a rhomb of Iceland spar, which has been bisected obliquely at a certain angle, and the two parts again joined with transparent cement, so that the ordinary image produced by double refraction is thrown out of the field by total reflection from the internal cemented surface, and the extraordinary, or polarized, image alone is transmitted. PRISMATIC; PRISMATICAL Pris*mat"ic, Pris*mat"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. prismatique.] 1. Resembling, or pertaining to, a prism; as, a prismatic form or cleavage. 2. Separated or distributed by a prism; formed by a prism; as, prismatic colors. 3. (Crystallog.) Defn: Same as Orthorhombic. Prismatic borax (Chem.), borax crystallized in the form of oblique prisms, with ten molecules of water; -- distinguished from octahedral borax. -- Prismatic colors (Opt.), the seven colors into which light is resolved when passed through a prism; primary colors. See Primary colors, under Color. -- Prismatic compass (Surv.), a compass having a prism for viewing a distant object and the compass card at the same time. -- Prismatic spectrum (Opt.), the spectrum produced by the passage of light through a prism. PRISMATICALLY Pris*mat"ic*al*ly, adv. Defn: In the form on manner of a prism; by means of a prism. PRISMATOIDAL Pris`ma*toid"al, a. Etym: [Gr. -oid: F. prismatoïde.] Defn: Having a prismlike form. Ure. PRISM GLASS Prism glass. Defn: Glass with one side smooth and the other side formed into sharp-edged ridges so as to reflect the light that passes through, used at windows to throw the light into the interior. PRISMOID Pris"moid, n. Etym: [Cf. F. prismtoïde.] Defn: A body that approaches to the form of a prism. PRISMOIDAL Pris*moid"al, a. Defn: Having the form of a prismoid; as, prismoidal solids. PRISMY Pris"my, a. Defn: Pertaining to a prism. [R.] PRISON Pris"on, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. prehensio, prensio, a seizing, arresting, fr. prehendre, prendere, to lay hold of, to seize. See Prehensile, and cf. Prize, n., Misprision.] 1. A place where persons are confined, or restrained of personal liberty; hence, a place or state o Bring my soul out of prison, that I may praise thy name. Ps. cxlii. 7. The tyrant Æolus, . . . With power imperial, curbs the struggling winds, And sounding tempests in dark prisons binds. Dryden. 2. Specifically, a building for the safe custody or confinement of criminals and others committed by lawful authority. Prison bars, or Prison base. See Base, n., 24. -- Prison breach. (Law) See Note under 3d Escape, n., 4. -- Prison house, a prison. Shak. -- Prison ship (Naut.), a ship fitted up for the confinement of prisoners. -- Prison van, a carriage in which prisoners are conveyed to and from prison. PRISON Pris"on, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Prisoned; p. pr. & vb. n. Prisoning.] 1. To imprison; to shut up in, or as in, a prison; to confine; to restrain from liberty. The prisoned eagle dies for rage. Sir W. Scott. His true respect will prison false desire. Shak. 2. To bind (together); to enchain. [Obs.] Sir William Crispyn with the duke was led Together prisoned. Robert of Brunne. PRISONER Pris"on*er, n. Etym: [F. prisonnier.] 1. One who is confined in a prison. Piers Plowman. 2. A person under arrest, or in custody, whether in prison or not; a person held in involuntary restraint; a captive; as, a prisoner at the bar of a court. Bouvier. Prisoner of Hope thou art, -- look up and sing. Keble. Prisoner's base. See Base, n., 24. PRISONMENT Pris"on*ment, n. Defn: Imprisonment. [Obs.] Shak. PRISTINATE Pris"tin*ate, a. Defn: Pristine; primitive. [Obs.] "Pristinate idolatry." Holinshed. PRISTINE Pris"tine, a. Etym: [L. pristinus, akin to prior: cf. F. pristin. See Prior, a.] Defn: Belonging to the earliest period or state; original; primitive; primeval; as, the pristine state of innocence; the pristine manners of a people; pristine vigor. PRITCH Pritch, n. Etym: [See Prick.] 1. A sharp-pointed instrument; also, an eelspear. [Prov. Eng.] 2. Pique; offense. [Obs.] D. Rogers. PRITCHEL Pritch"el, n. Defn: A tool employed by blacksmiths for punching or enlarging the nail holes in a horseshoe. PRITHEE Prith"ee, interj. Defn: A corruption of pray thee; as, I prithee; generally used without I. Shak. What was that scream for, I prithee L'Estrange. Prithee, tell me, Dimple-chin. E. C. Stedman. PRITTLE-PRATTLE Prit"tle-prat`tle, n. Etym: [See Prattle.] Defn: Empty talk; trifling loquacity; prattle; -- used in contempt or ridicule. [Colloq.] Abp. Bramhall. PRIVACY Pri"va*cy, n.; pl. Privacies. Etym: [See Private.] 1. The state of being in retirement from the company or observation of others; seclusion. 2. A place of seclusion from company or observation; retreat; solitude; retirement. Her sacred privacies all open lie. Rowe. 3. Concealment of what is said or done. Shak. 4. A private matter; a secret. Fuller. 5. See Privity, 2. [Obs.] Arbuthnot. PRIVADO Pri*va"do, n. Etym: [Sp., fr. L. privatus. See Private.] Defn: A private friend; a confidential friend; a confidant. [Obs.] Fuller. PRIVATDOCENT Pri*vat"do*cent`, n.; G. pl. -docenten (#). [Also Privatdozent.] [G.; privat private + docent teacher. See Docent.] Defn: In the universities of Germany and some other European countries, a licensed teacher or lecturer having no share in the university government and dependent upon fees for remuneration. PRIVATE Pri"vate (; 48), a. Etym: [L. privatus apart from the state, peculiar to an individual, private, properly p. p. of privare to bereave, deprive, originally, to separate, fr. privus single, private, perhaps originally, put forward (hence, alone, single) and akin to prae before. See Prior, a., and cf. Deprive, Privy, a.] 1. Belonging to, or concerning, an individual person, company, or interest; peculiar to one's self; unconnected with others; personal; one's own; not public; not general; separate; as, a man's private opinion; private property; a private purse; private expenses or interests; a private secretary. 2. Sequestered from company or observation; appropriated to an individual; secret; secluded; lonely;