[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

to such as have occasion to visit the guards, used as a signal by which a friend is known from an enemy, or a person who has a right to pass the watch from one who has not; a countersign; a password. 2. A sentiment or motto; esp., one used as a rallying cry or a signal for action. Nor deal in watchwords overmuch. Tennyson. WATER Wa"ter, n. Etym: [AS. wæter; akin to OS. watar, OFries. wetir, weter, LG. & D. water, G. wasser, OHG. wazzar, Icel. vatn, Sw. vatten, Dan. vand, Goth. wat, O. Slav. & Russ. voda, Gr. udan water, ud to wet, and perhaps to L. unda wave. Dropsy, Hydra, Otter, Wet, Whisky.] 1. The fluid which descends from the clouds in rain, and which forms rivers, lakes, seas, etc. "We will drink water." Shak."Powers of fire, air, water, and earth." Milton. Note: Pure water consists of hydrogen and oxygen, H2O, and is a colorless, odorless, tasteless, transparent liquid, which is very slightly compressible. At its maximum density, 39º Fahr. or 4º C., it is the standard for specific gravities, one cubic centimeter weighing one gram. It freezes at 32º Fahr. or 0º C. and boils at 212º Fahr. or 100º C. (see Ice, Steam). It is the most important natural solvent, and is frequently impregnated with foreign matter which is mostly removed by distillation; hence, rain water is nearly pure. It is an important ingredient in the tissue of animals and plants, the human body containing about two thirds its weight of water. 2. A body of water, standing or flowing; a lake, river, or other collection of water. Remembering he had passed over a small water a poor scholar when first coming to the university, he kneeled. Fuller. 3. Any liquid secretion, humor, or the like, resembling water; esp., the urine. 4. (Pharm.) Defn: A solution in water of a gaseous or readily volatile substance; as, ammonia water. U. S. Pharm. 5. The limpidity and luster of a precious stone, especially a diamond; as, a diamond of the first water, that is, perfectly pure and transparent. Hence, of the first water, that is, of the first excellence. 6. A wavy, lustrous pattern or decoration such as is imparted to linen, silk, metals, etc. See Water, v. t., 3, Damask, v. t., and Damaskeen. 7. An addition to the shares representing the capital of a stock company so that the aggregate par value of the shares is increased while their value for investment is diminished, or "diluted." [Brokers' Cant] Note: Water is often used adjectively and in the formation of many self-explaining compounds; as, water drainage; water gauge, or water- gauge; waterfowl, water-fowl, or water fowl; water-beaten; water- borne, water-circled, water-girdled, water-rocked, etc. Hard water. See under Hard. -- Inch of water, a unit of measure of quantity of water, being the quantity which will flow through an orifice one inch square, or a circular orifice one inch in diameter, in a vertical surface, under a stated constant head; also called miner's inch, and water inch. The shape of the orifice and the head vary in different localities. In the Western United States, for hydraulic mining, the standard aperture is square and the head from 4 to 9 inches above its center. In Europe, for experimental hydraulics, the orifice is usually round and the head from -- Mineral water, waters which are so impregnated with foreign ingredients, such as gaseous, sulphureous, and saline substances, as to give them medicinal properties, or a particular flavor or temperature. -- Soft water, water not impregnated with lime or mineral salts. -- To hold water. See under Hold, v. t. -- To keep one's head above water, to keep afloat; fig., to avoid failure or sinking in the struggles of life. [Colloq.] -- To make water. (a) To pass urine. Swift. (b) (Naut.) To admit water; to leak. -- Water of crystallization (Chem.), the water combined with many salts in their crystalline form. This water is loosely, but, nevertheless, chemically, combined, for it is held in fixed and definite amount for each substance containing it. Thus, while pure copper sulphate, CuSO4, is a white amorphous substance, blue vitriol, the crystallized form, CuSO4.5H2O, contains five molecules of water of crystallization. -- Water on the brain (Med.), hydrocephalus. -- Water on the chest (Med.), hydrothorax. Note: Other phrases, in which water occurs as the first element, will be found in alphabetical order in the Vocabulary. WATER Wa"ter, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Watered; p. pr. & vb. n. Watering.] Etym: [AS. wæterian, gewæterian.] 1. To wet or supply with water; to moisten; to overflow with water; to irrigate; as, to water land; to water flowers. With tears watering the ground. Milton. Men whose lives gilded on like rivers that water the woodlands. Longfellow. 2. To supply with water for drink; to cause or allow to drink; as, to water cattle and horses. 3. To wet and calender, as cloth, so as to impart to it a lustrous appearance in wavy lines; to diversify with wavelike lines; as, to water silk. Cf. Water, n., 6. 4. To add water to (anything), thereby extending the quantity or bulk while reducing the strength or quality; to extend; to dilute; to weaken. To water stock, to increase the capital stock of a company by issuing new stock, thus diminishing the value of the individual shares. Cf. Water, n., 7. [Brokers' Cant] WATER Wa"ter, v. i. 1. To shed, secrete, or fill with, water or liquid matter; as, his eyes began to water. If thine eyes can water for his death. Shak. 2. To get or take in water; as, the ship put into port to water. The mouth waters, a phrase denoting that a person or animal has a longing desire for something, since the sight of food often causes one who is hungry to have an increased flow of saliva. WATER ADDER Wa"ter ad"der. (Zoöl.) (a) The water moccasin. (b) The common, harmless American water snake (Tropidonotus sipedon). See Illust. under Water Snake. WATERAGE Wa"ter*age (; 48), n. Defn: Money paid for transportation of goods, etc., by water. [Eng.] WATER AGRIMONY Wa"ter ag"ri*mo*ny. (Bot.) Defn: A kind of bur marigold (Bidens tripartita) found in wet places in Europe. WATER ALOE Wa"ter al"oe. (Bot.) Defn: See Water soldier. WATER ANTELOPE Wa"ter an"te*lope. Defn: See Water buck. WATER ARUM Wa"ter a"rum. (Bot.) Defn: An aroid herb (Calla palustris) having a white spathe. It is an inhabitant of the north temperate zone. WATER BACK Wa"ter back`. Defn: See under 1st Back. WATER BAILIFF Wa"ter bail"iff. Defn: An officer of the customs, whose duty it is to search vessels. [Eng.] WATER BALLAST Wa"ter bal"last. (Naut.) Defn: Water confined in specially constructed compartments in a vessel's hold, to serve as ballast. WATER BAROMETER Wa"ter ba*rom"e*ter. (Physics) Defn: A barometer in which the changes of atmospheric pressure are indicated by the motion of a column of water instead of mercury. It requires a column of water about thirty-three feet in height. WATER BATH Wa"ter bath`. Defn: A device for regulating the temperature of anything subjected to heat, by surrounding the vessel containing it with another vessel containing water which can be kept at a desired temperature; also, a vessel designed for this purpose. WATER BATTERY Wa"ter bat"ter*y. 1. (Elec.) Defn: A voltaic battery in which the exciting fluid is water. 2. (Mil.) Defn: A battery nearly on a level with the water. WATER BEAR Wa"ter bear`. (Zoöl.) Defn: Any species of Tardigrada, 2. See Illust. of Tardigrada. WATER-BEARER Wa"ter-bear`er, n. (Astron.) Defn: The constellation Aquarius. WATER BED Wa"ter bed`. Defn: A kind of mattress made of, or covered with, waterproof fabric and filled with water. It is used in hospitals for bedridden patients. WATER BEECH Wa"ter beech`. (Bot.) Defn: The American hornbeam. See Hornbeam. WATER BEETLE Wa"ter bee"tle. (Zoöl.) Defn: Any one of numerous species of aquatic beetles belonging to Dytiscus and allied genera of the family Dytiscidæ, and to various genera of the family Hydrophilidæ. These beetles swim with great agility, the fringed hind legs acting together like oars. WATER BELLOWS Wa"ter bel"lows. Defn: Same as Tromp. WATER BIRD Wa"ter bird`. (Zoöl.) Defn: Any aquatic bird; a water fowl. WATER BLACKBIRD Wa"ter black"*bird. (Zoöl.) Defn: The European water ousel, or dipper. WATERBOARD Wa"ter*board`, n. Defn: A board set up to windward in a boat, to keep out water. Ham. Nav. Encyc. WATER BOATMAN Wa"ter boat`man. (Zoöl.) Defn: A boat bug. WATERBOK Wa"ter*bok`, n. Etym: [D.] (Zoöl.) Defn: A water buck. WATER-BOUND Wa"ter-bound`, a. Defn: Prevented by a flood from proceeding. WATER BRAIN Wa"ter brain`. Defn: A disease of sheep; gid. WATER BRASH Wa"ter brash`. (Med.) Defn: See under Brash. WATER BREATHER Wa"ter breath"er. (Zoöl.) Defn: Any arthropod that breathes by means of gills. WATER BRIDGE Wa"ter bridge`. (Steam Boilers) Defn: See Water table. WATER BUCK Wa"ter buck`. (Zoöl.) Defn: A large, heavy antelope (Kobus ellipsiprymnus) native of Central Africa. It frequents the banks of rivers and is a good