[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

the heart I bear, Shall never sag with doubt nor shake with fear. Shak. 3. To loiter in walking; to idle along; to drag or droop heavily. To sag to leeward (Naut.), to make much leeway by reason of the wind, sea, or current; to drift to leeward; -- said of a vessel. Totten. SAG Sag, v. t. Defn: To cause to bend or give way; to load. SAG Sag, n. Defn: State of sinking or bending; sagging. SAGA Sa"ga, n.; pl. Sagas. Etym: [Icel., akin to E. saw a saying. See Say, and cf. Saw.] Defn: A Scandinavian legend, or heroic or mythic tradition, among the Norsemen and kindred people; a northern European popular historical or religious tale of olden time. And then the blue-eyed Norseman told A saga of the days of old. Longfellow. SAGACIOUS Sa*ga"cious, a. Etym: [L. sagax, sagacis, akin to sagire to perceive quickly or keenly, and probably to E. seek. See Seek, and cf. Presage.] 1. Of quick sense perceptions; keen-scented; skilled in following a trail. Sagacious of his quarry from so far. Milton. 2. Hence, of quick intellectual perceptions; of keen penetration and judgment; discerning and judicious; knowing; far-sighted; shrewd; sage; wise; as, a sagacious man; a sagacious remark. Instinct . . . makes them, many times, sagacious above our apprehension. Dr. H. More. Only sagacious heads light on these observations, and reduce them into general propositions. Locke. Syn. -- See Shrewd. -- Sa*ga"cious*ly, adv. -- Sa-ga"cious*ness, n. SAGACITY Sa*gac"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. sagacitas. See Sagacious.] Defn: The quality of being sagacious; quickness or acuteness of sense perceptions; keenness of discernment or penetration with soundness of judgment; shrewdness. Some [brutes] show that nice sagacity of smell. Cowper. Natural sagacity improved by generous education. V. Knox. Syn. -- Penetration; shrewdness; judiciousness. -- Sagacity, Penetration. Penetration enables us to enter into the depths of an abstruse subject, to detect motives, plans, etc. Sagacity adds to penetration a keen, practical judgment, which enables one to guard against the designs of others, and to turn everything to the best possible advantage. SAGAMORE Sag"a*more, n. 1. Etym: [Cf. Sachem.] Defn: The head of a tribe among the American Indians; a chief; -- generally used as synonymous with sachem, but some writters distinguished between them, making the sachem a chief of the first rank, and a sagamore one of the second rank. "Be it sagamore, sachem, or powwow." Longfellow. 2. A juice used in medicine. [Obs.] Johnson. SAGAPEN Sag"a*pen, n. Defn: Sagapenum. SAGAPENUM Sag`a*pe"num, n. Etym: [L. sagapenon, sacopenium, Gr. sagapin, gomme sagapin, sagapénum, Ar. sikbinaj, Per. sakbinah, sikbinah.] (Med.) Defn: A fetid gum resin obtained from a species of Ferula. It has been used in hysteria, etc., but is now seldom met with. U. S. Disp. SAGATHY Sag"a*thy, n. Etym: [F. sagatis: cf. Sp. sagatí, saetí.] Defn: A mixed woven fabric of silk and cotton; or silk and wool; sayette; also, a light woolen fabric. SAGE Sage, n. Etym: [OE. sauge, F. sauge, L. salvia, from salvus saved, in allusion to its reputed healing virtues. See Safe.] (Bot.) (a) A suffriticose labiate plant (Salvia officinalis) with grayish green foliage, much used in flavoring meats, etc. The name is often extended to the whole genus, of which many species are cultivated for ornament, as the scarlet sage, and Mexican red and blue sage. (b) The sagebrush. Meadow sage (Bot.), a blue-flowered species of salvia (S. pratensis) growing in meadows in Europe. -- Sage cheese, cheese flavored with sage, and colored green by the juice of leaves of spanish and other plants which are added to the milk. -- Sage cock (Zoöl.), the male of the sage grouse; in a more general sense, the specific name of the sage grouse. -- Sage green, of a dull grayish green color, like the leaves of garden sage. -- Sage grouse (Zoöl.), a very large American grouse (Centrocercus urophasianus), native of the dry sagebrush plains of Western North America. Called also cock of the plains. The male is called sage cock, and the female sage hen. -- Sage hare, or Sage rabbit (Zoöl.), a species of hare (Lepus Nuttalli, or artemisia) which inhabits the regions of Western North America and lives among sagebrush. By recent writers it is considered to be merely a variety of the common cottontail, or wood rabbit. -- Sage hen (Zoöl.), the female of the sage grouse. Sage sparrow (Zoöl.), a small sparrow (Amphispiza Belli, var Nevadensis) which inhabits the dry plains of the Rocky Mountain region, living among sagebrush. -- Sage thrasher (Zoöl.), a singing bird (Oroscoptes montanus) which inhabits the sagebrush plains of Western North America. -- Sage willow (Bot.), a species of willow (Salix tristis) forming a low bush with nearly sessile grayish green leaves. SAGE Sage, a. [Compar. Sager; superl. Sagest.] Etym: [F., fr. L. sapius (only in nesapius unwise, foolish), fr. sapere to be wise; perhaps akin to E. sap. Cf. Savor, Sapient, Insipid.] 1. Having nice discernment and powers of judging; prudent; grave; sagacious. All you sage counselors, hence! Shak. 2. Proceeding from wisdom; well judged; shrewd; well adapted to the purpose. Commanders, who, cloaking their fear under show of sage advice, counseled the general to retreat. Milton. 3. Grave; serious; solemn. [R.] "[Great bards.] in sage and solemn tunes have sung." Milton. Syn. -- Wise; sagacious; sapient; grave; prudent; judicious. SAGE Sage, n. Defn: A wise man; a man of gravity and wisdom; especially, a man venerable for years, and of sound judgment and prudence; a grave philosopher. At his birth a star, Unseen before in heaven, proclaims him come, And guides the Eastern sages. Milton. SAGEBRUSH Sage"brush`, n. Defn: A low irregular shrub (Artemisia tridentata), of the order Compositæ, covering vast tracts of the dry alkaline regions of the American plains; -- called also sagebush, and wild sage. SAGEBRUSH STATE Sagebrush State. Defn: Nevada; -- a nickname. SAGELY Sage"ly, adv. Defn: In a sage manner; wisely. SAGENE Sa*gene", n. Etym: [Russ. sajene.] Defn: A Russian measure of length equal to about seven English feet. SAGENESS Sage"ness, n. Defn: The quality or state of being sage; wisdom; sagacity; prudence; gravity. Ascham. SAGENITE Sag"e*nite, n. Etym: [F. sagénite, fr. L. sagena a large net. See Saine.] (Min.) Defn: Acicular rutile occurring in reticulated forms imbedded in quartz. SAGENITIC Sag`e*nit"ic, a. (Min.) Defn: Resembling sagenite; -- applied to quartz when containing acicular crystals of other minerals, most commonly rutile, also tourmaline, actinolite, and the like. SAGGER Sag"ger, n. Etym: [See Segger.] 1. A pot or case of fire clay, in which fine stoneware is inclosed while baking in the kiln; a segga. 2. The clay of which such pots or cases are made. SAGGING Sag"ging, n. Defn: A bending or sinking between the ends of a thing, in consequence of its own, or an imposed, weight; an arching downward in the middle, as of a ship after straining. Cf. Hogging. SAGINATE Sag"i*nate, v. t. Etym: [L. saginatus, p.p. of saginare to fat, fr. sagina stuffing.] Defn: To make fat; to pamper. [R.] "Many a saginated boar." Cowper. SAGINATION Sag`i*na"tion, n. Etym: [L. saginatio.] Defn: The act of fettening or pampering. [R.] Topsell. SAGITTA Sa*git"ta, n. Etym: [L., an arrow.] 1. (Astron.) Defn: A small constellation north of Aquila; the Arrow. 2. (Arch.) Defn: The keystone of an arch. [R.] gwitt. 3. (Geom.) Defn: The distance from a point in a curve to the chord; also, the versed sine of an arc; -- so called from its resemblance to an arrow resting on the bow and string. [Obs.] 4. (Anat.) Defn: The larger of the two otoliths, or ear bones, found in most fishes. 5. (Zoöl.) Defn: A genus of transparent, free-swimming marine worms having lateral and caudal fins, and capable of swimming rapidly. It is the type of the class Chætognatha. SAGITTAL Sag"it*tal, a. Etym: [L. sagitta an arrow: cf. F. saguttal.] 1. Of or pertaining to an arrow; resembling an arrow; furnished with an arowlike appendage. 2. (Anat.) (a) Of or pertaining to the sagittal suture; in the region of the sagittal suture; rabdoidal; as, the sagittal furrow, or groove, on the inner surface of the roof of the skull. (b) In the mesial plane; as, a sagittal section of an animal. Sagittal suture (Anat.), the suture between the two parietal bones in the top of the skull; -- called also rabdoidal suture, and interparietal suture. SAGITTARIUS Sag`it*ta"ri*us, n. Etym: [L., literally, an archer, fr. sagittarius belonging to an arrow, fr. sagitta an arrow.] (Astron.) (a) The ninth of the twelve signs of the zodiac, which the sun enters about November 22, marked thus [&sagittarius;] in almanacs; the Archer. (b) A zodiacal constellation, represented on maps and globes as a centaur shooting an arrow. SAGITTARY Sag"it*ta"ry, n. Etym: [See Sagittarius.] 1. (Myth.) Defn: A centaur; a fabulous being, half man, half horse, armed with a bow and quiver. Shak. 2. The Arsenal in Venice; -- so called from having a figure of an archer over the door. Shak. SAGITTARY Sag"it*ta*ry, a. Etym: [L.