[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

trip of those small glancing feet. Macaulay. GLANCE Glance, v. t. 1. To shoot or dart suddenly or obliquely; to cast for a moment; as, to glance the eye. 2. To hint at; to touch lightly or briefly. [Obs.] In company I often glanced it. Shak. GLANCING Glan"cing, a. 1. Shooting, as light. When through the gancing lightnings fly. Rowe. 2. Flying off (after striking) in an oblique direction; as, a glancing shot. GLANCINGLY Glan"cing*ly, adv. Defn: In a glancing manner; transiently; incidentally; indirectly. Hakewill. GLAND Gland, n. Etym: [F. glande, L. glans, glandis, acorn; akin to Gr. Parable, n.] 1. (Anat.) (a) An organ for secreting something to be used in, or eliminated from, the body; as, the sebaceous glands of the skin; the salivary glands of the mouth. (b) An organ or part which resembles a secreting, or true, gland, as the ductless, lymphatic, pineal, and pituitary glands, the functions of which are very imperfectly known. Note: The true secreting glands are, in principle, narrow pouches of the mucous membranes, or of the integument, lined with a continuation of the epithelium, or of the epidermis, the cells of which produce the secretion from the blood. In the larger glands, the pouches are tubular, greatly elongated, and coiled, as in the sweat glands, or subdivided and branched, making compound and racemose glands, such as the pancreas. 2. (Bot.) (a) A special organ of plants, usually minute and globular, which often secretes some kind of resinous, gummy, or aromatic product. (b) Any very small prominence. 3. (Steam Mach.) Defn: The movable part of a stuffing box by which the packing is compressed; -- sometimes called a follower. See Illust. of Stuffing box, under Stuffing. 4. (Mach.) Defn: The crosspiece of a bayonet clutch. GLANDAGE Glan"dage, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. glandage. See Gland.] Defn: A feeding on nuts or mast. [Obs.] Crabb. GLANDERED Glan"dered, a. Defn: Affected with glanders; as, a glandered horse. Yu GLANDEROUS Glan"der*ous, a. Defn: Of or pertaining to glanders; of the nature of glanders. Youatt. GLANDERS Glan"ders, n. Etym: [From Gland.] (Far.) Defn: A highly contagious and very destructive disease of horses, asses, mules, etc., characterized by a constant discharge of sticky matter from the nose, and an enlargement and induration of the glands beneath and within the lower jaw. It may transmitted to dogs, goats, sheep, and to human beings. GLANDIFEROUS Glan*dif"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. glandifer; glans, glandis, acorn + ferre to bear; cf. F. glandifère.] Defn: Bearing acorns or other nuts; as, glandiferous trees. GLANDIFORM Gland"i*form, a. Etym: [L. glans, glandis, acorn + -form: cf. F. glandiforme .] Defn: Having the form of a gland or nut; resembling a gland. GLANDULAR Glan"du*lar, a. Etym: [Cf. F. glandulaire. See Glandule.] Defn: Containing or supporting glands; consisting of glands; pertaining to glands. GLANDULATION Glan`du*la"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. glandulation.] (Bot.) Defn: The situation and structure of the secretory vessels in plants. Martyn. Glandulation respects the secretory vessels, which are either glandules, follicles, or utricles. J. Lee. GLANDULE Glan"dule, n. Etym: [L. glandula, dim. of glans, glandis, acorn: cf. F. glandule. See Gland.] Defn: A small gland or secreting vessel. GLANDULIFEROUS Glan`du*lif"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. glandula gland + -ferous; cf. F. glandulifère.] Defn: Bearing glandules. GLANDULOSE Glan"du*lose`, a. Defn: Same as Glandulous. GLANDULOSITY Glan`du*los"i*ty, n. Defn: Quality of being glandulous; a collection of glands. [R.] Sir T. Browne. GLANDULOUS Glan"du*lous, a. Etym: [L. glandulosus: cf. F. glanduleux.] Defn: Containing glands; consisting of glands; pertaining to glands; resembling glands. GLANS Glans n.; pl. Glandes. Etym: [L. See Gland.] 1. (Anat.) Defn: The vascular body which forms the apex of the penis, and the extremity of the clitoris. 2. (Bot.) Defn: The acorn or mast of the oak and similar fruits. Gray. 3. (Med.) (a) Goiter. (b) A pessary. [Obs.] GLARE Glare (glâr), v. i. [imp. & p. p. Glared; p. pr. & vb. n. Glaring.] Etym: [OE. glaren, gloren; cf. AS. glær amber, LG. glaren to glow or burn like coals, D. gloren to glimmer; prob. akin to E. glass.] 1. To shine with a bright, dazzling light. The cavern glares with new-admitted light. Dryden. 2. To look with fierce, piercing eyes; to stare earnestly, angrily, or fiercely. And eye that scorcheth all it glares upon. Byron. 3. To be bright and intense, as certain colors; to be ostentatiously splendid or gay. She glares in balls, front boxes, and the ring. Pope. GLARE Glare, v. t. Defn: To shoot out, or emit, as a dazzling light. Every eye Glared lightning, and shot forth pernicious fire. Milton. GLARE Glare, n. 1. A bright, dazzling light; splendor that dazzles the eyes; a confusing and bewildering light. The frame of burnished steel that cast a glare. Dryden. 2. A fierce, piercing look or stare. About them round, A lion now he stalks with fiery glare. Milton. 3. A viscous, transparent substance. See Glair. 4. A smooth, bright, glassy surface; as, a glare of ice. [U. S. ] GLARE Glare, a. Etym: [See Glary, and Glare, n.] Defn: Smooth and bright or translucent; -- used almost exclusively of ice; as, skating on glare ice. [U. S.] GLAREOUS Glar"e*ous, a. Etym: [Cf. F. glaireux. See Glair.] Defn: Glairy. John Georgy (1766). GLARINESS; GLARINGNESS Glar"i*ness, Glar"ing*ness, n. Defn: A dazzling luster or brilliancy. GLARING Glar"ing, a. Defn: Clear; notorious; open and bold; barefaced; as, a glaring crime. -- Glar"ing*ly, adv. GLARY Glar"y, a. Defn: Of a dazzling luster; glaring; bright; shining; smooth. Bright, crystal glass is glary. Boyle. GLASS Glass, n. Etym: [OE. glas, gles, AS. glæs; akin to D., G., Dan., & Sw. glas, Icel. glas, gler, Dan. glar; cf. AS. glær amber, L. glaesum. Cf. Glare, n., Glaze, v. t.] 1. A hard, brittle, translucent, and commonly transparent substance, white or colored, having a conchoidal fracture, and made by fusing together sand or silica with lime, potash, soda, or lead oxide. It is used for window panes and mirrors, for articles of table and culinary use, for lenses, and various articles of ornament. Note: Glass is variously colored by the metallic oxides; thus, manganese colors it violet; copper (cuprous), red, or (cupric) green; cobalt, blue; uranium, yellowish green or canary yellow; iron, green or brown; gold, purple or red; tin, opaque white; chromium, emerald green; antimony, yellow. 2. (Chem.) Defn: Any substance having a peculiar glassy appearance, and a conchoidal fracture, and usually produced by fusion. 3. Anything made of glass. Especially: (a) A looking-glass; a mirror. (b) A vessel filled with running sand for measuring time; an hourglass; and hence, the time in which such a vessel is exhausted of its sand. She would not live The running of one glass. Shak. (c) A drinking vessel; a tumbler; a goblet; hence, the contents of such a vessel; especially; spirituous liquors; as, he took a glass at dinner. (d) An optical glass; a lens; a spyglass; -- in the plural, spectacles; as, a pair of glasses; he wears glasses. (e) A weatherglass; a barometer. Note: Glass is much used adjectively or in combination; as, glass maker, or glassmaker; glass making or glassmaking; glass blower or glassblower, etc. Bohemian glass, Cut glass, etc. See under Bohemian, Cut, etc. -- Crown glass, a variety of glass, used for making the finest plate or window glass, and consisting essentially of silicate of soda or potash and lime, with no admixture of lead; the convex half of an achromatic lens is composed of crown glass; -- so called from a crownlike shape given it in the process of blowing. -- Crystal glass, or Flint glass. See Flint glass, in the Vocabulary. -- Cylinder glass, sheet glass made by blowing the glass in the form of a cylinder which is then split longitudinally, opened out, and flattened. -- Glass of antimony, a vitreous oxide of antimony mixed with sulphide. -- Glass blower, one whose occupation is to blow and fashion glass. -- Glass blowing, the art of shaping glass, when reduced by heat to a viscid state, by inflating it through a tube. -- Glass cloth, a woven fabric formed of glass fibers. -- Glass coach, a coach superior to a hackney-coach, hired for the day, or any short period, as a private carriage; -- so called because originally private carriages alone had glass windows. [Eng.] Smart. Glass coaches are [allowed in English parks from which ordinary hacks are excluded], meaning by this term, which is never used in America, hired carriages that do not go on stands. J. F. Cooper. -- Glass cutter. (a) One who cuts sheets of glass into sizes for window panes, ets. (b) One who shapes the surface of glass by grinding and polishing. (c) A tool, usually with a diamond at the point, for cutting glass. -- Glass cutting. (a) The act or process of dividing glass, as sheets of glass into panes with a diamond. (b) The act or process of shaping the surface of glass by appylying it to revolving wheels, upon which sand, emery, and, afterwards, polishing powder, are