[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

of their unbelief. South. 8. A particular portion constituting a part of something continuous; esp., a portion of a book, speech, or musical composition; a paragraph; a clause. How commentators each dark passage shun. Young. 9. Reception; currency. [Obs.] Sir K. Digby. 10. A pass or en encounter; as, a passage at arms. No passages of love Betwixt us twain henceforward evermore. Tennyson. 11. A movement or an evacuation of the bowels. 12. In parliamentary proceedings: (a) The course of a proposition (bill, resolution, etc.) through the several stages of consideration and action; as, during its passage through Congress the bill was amended in both Houses. (b) The advancement of a bill or other proposition from one stage to another by an affirmative vote; esp., the final affirmative action of the body upon a proposition; hence, adoption; enactment; as, the passage of the bill to its third reading was delayed. "The passage of the Stamp Act." D. Hosack. The final question was then put upon its passage. Cushing. In passage, in passing; cursorily. "These . . . have been studied but in passage." Bacon. -- Middle passage, Northeast passage, Northwest passage. See under Middle, Northeast, etc. -- Of passage, passing from one place, region, or climate, to another; migratory; -- said especially of birds "Birds of passage." Longfellow. -- Passage hawk, a hawk taken on its passage or migration. -- Passage money, money paid for conveyance of a passenger, -- usually for carrying passengers by water. Syn. -- Vestibule; hall; corridor. See Vestibule. PASSAGER Pas"sa*ger, n. Etym: [See Passenger.] Defn: A passenger; a bird or boat of passage. [Obs.] Ld. Berners. PASSAGEWAY Pas"sage*way`, n. Defn: A way for passage; a hall. See Passage, 5. PASSANT Pas"sant, a. Etym: [F., p.pr. of passer. See Pass, v. i.] 1. Passing from one to another; in circulation; current. [Obs.] Many opinions are passant. Sir T. Browne. 2. Curs [Obs.] On a passant rewiew of what I wrote to the bishop. Sir P. Pett. 3. Surpassing; excelling. [Obs.] Chaucer. 4. (Her.) Defn: Walking; -- said of any animal on an escutcheon, which is represented as walking with the dexter paw raised. PASSE; PASSEE Pas`sé", masc. Pas`sé"e, fem., a. Etym: [F.] Defn: Past; gone by; hence, past one's prime; worn; faded; as, a passée belle. Ld. Lytton. PASSEGARDE Passe"garde`, n. Etym: [F.] (Anc. Armor) Defn: A ridge or projecting edge on a shoulder piece to turn the blow of a lance or other weapon from the joint of the armor. PASSEMENT Passe"ment, n. Etym: [F.] Defn: Lace, gimp, braid etc., sewed on a garment. Sir W. Scott. PASSEMENTERIE Passe*men"terie, n. Etym: [F.] Defn: Beaded embroidery for women's dresses. PASSENGER Pas"sen*ger, n. Etym: [OE. & F. passager. See Passage, and cf. Messenger.] 1. A passer or passer-by; a wayfarer. Shak. 2. A traveler by some established conveyance, as a coach, steamboat, railroad train, etc. Passenger falcon (Zoöl.), a migratory hawk. Ainsworth. -- Passenger pigeon (Zoöl.), the common wild pigeon of North America (Ectopistes migratorius), so called on account of its extensive migrations. PASSENGER MILE Pas"sen*ger mile. (Railroads) Defn: A unit of measurement of the passenger transportation performed by a railroad during a given period, usually a year, the total of which consists of the sum of the miles traversed by all the passengers on the road in the period in question. PASSENGER MILEAGE Passenger mileage. (Railroads) Defn: Passenger miles collectively; the total number of miles traveled by passengers on a railroad during a given period. PASSE PARTOUT Passe" par`tout", n. Etym: [F., from passer to pass + partout everywhere.] 1. That by which one can pass anywhere; a safe-conduct. [Obs.] Dryden. 2. A master key; a latchkey. 3. A light picture frame or mat of cardboard, wood, or the like, usually put between the picture and the glass, and sometimes serving for several pictures. PASSER Pass"er, n. Defn: One who passes; a passenger. PASSER-BY Pass`er-by", n. Defn: One who goes by; a passer. PASSERES Pas"se*res, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. L. passer a sparrow.] (Zoöl.) Defn: An order, or suborder, of birds, including more that half of all the known species. It embraces all singing birds (Oscines), together with many other small perching birds. PASSERIFORM Pas*ser"i*form, a. (Zoöl.) Defn: Like or belonging to the Passeres. PASSERINE Pas"ser*ine, a. Etym: [L. passerinus, fr. passer a sparrow.] (Zoöl.) Defn: Of or pertaining to the Passeres. The columbine, gallinaceous, and passerine tribes people the fruit trees. Sydney Smith. PASSERINE Pas"ser*ine, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: One of the Passeres. PASSIBILITY Pas`si*bil"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. passibilitas: cf. F. passibilité.] Defn: The quality or state of being passible; aptness to feel or suffer; sensibility. Hakewill. PASSIBLE Pas"si*ble, a. Etym: [L. passibilis, fr. pati, to suffer: cf. F. passible. See Passion.] Defn: Susceptible of feeling or suffering, or of impressions from external agents. Apolinarius, which held even deity itself passible. Hooker. PASSIBLENESS Pas"si*ble*ness, n. Defn: Passibility. Brerewood. PASSIFLORA Pas"si*flo"ra, n. Etym: [NL., from L. passio passion (fr. pati, passus, to suffer) + flos, floris, flower.] (Bot.) Defn: A genus of plants, including the passion flower. It is the type of the order Passifloreæ, which includes about nineteen genera and two hundred and fifty species. PASSIM Pas"sim, adv. Etym: [L.] Defn: Here and there; everywhere; as, this word occurs passim in the poem. PASSING Pass"ing, n. Defn: The act of one who, or that which, passes; the act of going by or away. Passing bell, a tolling of a bell to announce that a soul is passing, or has passed, from its body (formerly done to invoke prayers for the dying); also, a tolling during the passing of a funeral procession to the grave, or during funeral ceremonies. Sir W. Scott. Longfellow. PASSING Pass"ing, a. 1. Relating to the act of passing or going; going by, beyond, through, or away; departing. 2. Exceeding; surpassing, eminent. Chaucer. "Her passing deformity." Shak. Passing note (Mus.), a character including a passing tone. -- Passing tone (Mus.), a tone introduced between two other tones, on an unaccented portion of a measure, for the sake of smoother melody, but forming no essential part of the harmony. PASSING Pass"ing, adv. Defn: Exceedingly; excessively; surpassingly; as, passing fair; passing strange. "You apprehend passing shrewdly." Shak. PASSINGLY Pass"ing*ly, adv. Defn: Exceedingly. Wyclif. PASSION Pas"sion, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. passio, fr. pati, passus, to suffer. See Patient.] 1. A suffering or enduring of imposed or inflicted pain; any suffering or distress (as, a cardiac passion); specifically, the suffering of Christ between the time of the last supper and his death, esp. in the garden upon the cross. "The passions of this time." Wyclif (Rom. viii. 18). To whom also he showed himself alive after his passion, by many infallible proofs. Acts i. 3. 2. The state of being acted upon; subjection to an external agent or influence; a passive condition; -- opposed to action. A body at rest affords us no idea of any active power to move, and, when set is motion, it is rather a passion than an action in it. Locke. 3. Capacity of being affected by external agents; susceptibility of impressions from external agents. [R.] Moldable and not moldable, scissible and not scissible, and many other passions of matter. Bacon. 4. The state of the mind when it is powerfully acted upon and influenced by something external to itself; the state of any particular faculty which, under such conditions, becomes extremely sensitive or uncontrollably excited; any emotion or sentiment (specifically, love or anger) in a state of abnormal or controlling activity; an extreme or inordinate desire; also, the capacity or susceptibility of being so affected; as, to be in a passion; the passions of love, hate, jealously, wrath, ambition, avarice, fear, etc.; a passion for war, or for drink; an orator should have passion as well as rhetorical skill. "A passion fond even to idolatry." Macaulay. "Her passion is to seek roses." Lady M. W. Montagu. We also are men of like passions with you. Acts xiv. 15. The nature of the human mind can not be sufficiently understood, without considering the affections and passions, or those modifications or actions of the mind consequent upon the apprehension of certain objects or events in which the mind generally conceives good or evil. Hutcheson. The term passion, and its adverb passionately, often express a very strong predilection for any pursuit, or object of taste -- a kind of enthusiastic fondness for anything. Cogan. The bravery of his grief did put me Into a towering passion. Shak. The ruling passion, be it what it will, The ruling passion conquers reason still. Pope. Who walked in every path of human life, Felt every passion. Akenside. When statesmen are ruled by faction and interest, they can have no passion for the glory of their country. Addison. 5. Disorder of the mind; madness. [Obs.] Shak. 6. Passion week. See Passion week, below. R. of Gl. Passion flower (Bot.), any flower or plant of the genus Passiflora; -- so named from a fancied resemblance of parts