[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

butea, a gum yielded by the Indian plants Butea frondosa and B. superba, and used locally in tanning and in precipitating indigo. -- Gum cistus, a plant of the genus Cistus (Cistus ladaniferus), a species of rock rose.-- Gum dragon. See Tragacanth. -- Gum elastic, Elastic gum. See Caoutchouc. -- Gum elemi. See Elemi. -- Gum juniper. See Sandarac. -- Gum kino. See under Kino. -- Gum lac. See Lac. -- Gum Ladanum, a fragrant gum yielded by several Oriental species of Cistus or rock rose. -- Gum passages, sap receptacles extending through the parenchyma of certain plants (Amygdalaceæ, Cactaceæ, etc.), and affording passage for gum. -- Gum pot, a varnish maker's utensil for melting gum and mixing other ingredients. -- Gum resin, the milky juice of a plant solidified by exposure to air; one of certain inspissated saps, mixtures of, or having properties of, gum and resin; a resin containing more or less mucilaginous and gummy matter. -- Gum sandarac. See Sandarac. -- Gum Senegal, a gum similar to gum arabic, yielded by trees (Acacia Verek and A. Adansoniä) growing in the Senegal country, West Africa. -- Gum tragacanth. See Tragacanth. -- Gum tree, the name given to several trees in America and Australia: (a) The black gum (Nyssa multiflora), one of the largest trees of the Southern States, bearing a small blue fruit, the favorite food of the opossum. Most of the large trees become hollow. (b) A tree of the genus Eucalyptus. See Eucalpytus. (c) The sweet gum tree of the United States (Liquidambar styraciflua), a large and beautiful tree with pointedly lobed leaves and woody burlike fruit. It exudes an aromatic terebinthine juice. -- Gum water, a solution of gum, esp. of gum arabic, in water. -- Gum wood, the wood of any gum tree, esp. the wood of the Eucalyptus piperita, of New South Wales. GUM Gum, v. t. [imp. &. p. Gummed; p. pr. & vb. n. Gumming.] Defn: To smear with gum; to close with gum; to unite or stiffen by gum or a gumlike substance; to make sticky with a gumlike substance. He frets likke a gummed velvet.Shak. GUM Gum, v. i. Defn: To exude or from gum; to become gummy. GUMBO Gum"bo, n. Etym: [Written aalso gombo.] 1. A soup thickened with the mucilaginous pods of the okra; okra soup. 2. The okra plant or its pods. GUMBOIL Gum"boil, n. (Med.) Defn: A small suppurting inflamed spot on the gum. GUMMA Gum"ma, n.; pl. Gummata. Etym: [NL. So called from its gummy contents See Gum.] (Med.) Defn: A kind of soft tumor, usually of syphilitic origin. GUMMATOUS Gum*ma"tous, a. (Med.) Defn: Belonging to, or resembling, gumma. GUMMER Gum"mer, n. Etym: [From 2d Gum.] Defn: A punch-cutting tool, or machine for deepening and enlarging the spaces between the teeth of a worn saw. GUMMIFEROUS Gum*mif"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. gummi gum + -ferous.] Defn: Producing gum; gum-bearing. GUMMINESS Gum"mi*ness, n. Defn: The state or quality of being gummy; viscousness. GUMMITE Gum"mite, n. Etym: [So called because it occurs in rounded or flattened pieces which look like gum.] (Min.) Defn: A yellow amorphous mineral, essentially a hydrated oxide of uranium derived from the alteration of uraninite. GUMMOSITY Gum*mos"i*ty, n. Defn: Gumminess; a viscous or adhesive quality or nature. [R.] Floyer. GUMMOUS Gum"mous, a. Etym: [L. gummosus; cf. F. gommeux.] 1. Gumlike, or composed of gum; gummy. 2. (Med.) Defn: Of or pertaining to a gumma. GUMMY Gum"my, a. Etym: [Compar. Gummer (Gummirst.] Defn: Consisting of gum; viscous; adhesive; producing or containing gum; covered with gum or a substance resembling gum. Kindles the gummy bark of fir or pine. Milton. Then rubs his gummy eyes. Dryden. Gummy tumor (Med.), a gumma. GUMP Gump, n. Etym: [Cf. Sw. & Dan. gump buttocks, rump, Icel. gumprg.] Defn: A dolt; a dunce. [Low.] Holloway. GUMPTION Gump"tion, n. Etym: [OE. gom, gome, attention; akin to AS. geómian, gyman, to regard, observe, gyme care, OS. gomean to heed, Goth. gaumjan to see, notice.] 1. Capacity; shrewdness; common sense. [Colloq.] One does not have gumption till one has been properly cheated. Lord Lytton. 2. (Paint.) (a) The art of preparing colors. Sir W. Scott. (b) Megilp. Fairholt. GUN Gun, n. Etym: [OE. gonne, gunne; of uncertain origin; cf. Ir., Gael.) A LL. gunna, W. gum; possibly (like cannon) fr. L. canna reed, tube; or abbreviated fr. OF. mangonnel, E. mangonel, a machine for hurling stones.] 1. A weapon which throws or propels a missile to a distance; any firearm or instrument for throwing projectiles by the explosion of gunpowder, consisting of a tube or barrel closed at one end, in which the projectile is placed, with an explosive charge behind, which is ignited by various means. Muskets, rifles, carbines, and fowling pieces are smaller guns, for hand use, and are called small arms. Larger guns are called cannon, ordnance, fieldpieces, carronades, howitzers, etc. See these terms in the Vocabulary. As swift as a pellet out of a gunne When fire is in the powder runne. Chaucer. The word gun was in use in England for an engine to cast a thing from a man long before there was any gunpowder found out. Selden. 2. (Mil.) Defn: A piece of heavy ordnance; in a restricted sense, a cannon. 3. pl. (Naut.) Defn: Violent blasts of wind. Note: Guns are classified, according to their construction or manner of loading as rifled or smoothbore, breech-loading or muzzle-loading, cast or built-up guns; or according to their use, as field, mountain, prairie, seacoast, and siege guns. Armstrong gun, a wrought iron breech-loading cannon named after its English inventor, Sir William Armstrong. -- Great gun, a piece of heavy ordnance; hence (Fig.), a person superior in any way. -- Gun barrel, the barrel or tube of a gun. -- Gun carriage, the carriage on which a gun is mounted or moved. -- Gun cotton (Chem.), a general name for a series of explosive nitric ethers of cellulose, obtained by steeping cotton in nitric and sulphuric acids. Although there are formed substances containing nitric acid radicals, yet the results exactly resemble ordinary cotton in appearance. It burns without ash, with explosion if confined, but quietly and harmlessly if free and open, and in small quantity. Specifically, the lower nitrates of cellulose which are insoluble in ether and alcohol in distinction from the highest (pyroxylin) which is soluble. See Pyroxylin, and cf. Xyloidin. The gun cottons are used for blasting and somewhat in gunnery: for making celluloid when compounded with camphor; and the soluble variety (pyroxylin) for making collodion. See Celluloid, and Collodion. Gun cotton is frequenty but improperly called nitrocellulose. It is not a nitro compound, but an ethereal salt of nitric acid. -- Gun deck. See under Deck. -- Gun fire, the time at which the morning or the evening gun is fired. -- Gun metal, a bronze, ordinarily composed of nine parts of copper and one of tin, used for cannon, etc. The name is also given to certain strong mixtures of cast iron. -- Gun port (Naut.), an opening in a ship through which a cannon's muzzle is run out for firing. -- Gun tackle (Naut.), the blocks and pulleys affixed to the side of a ship, by which a gun carriage is run to and from the gun port. -- Gun tackle purchase (Naut.), a tackle composed of two single blocks and a fall. Totten. -- Krupp gun, a wrought steel breech-loading cannon, named after its German inventor, Herr Krupp. -- Machine gun, a breech-loading gun or a group of such guns, mounted on a carriage or other holder, and having a reservoir containing cartridges which are loaded into the gun or guns and fired in rapid succession, sometimes in volleys, by machinery operated by turning a crank. Several hundred shots can be fired in a minute with accurate aim. The Gatling gun, Gardner gun, Hotchkiss gun, and Nordenfelt gun, named for their inventors, and the French mitrailleuse, are machine guns. -- To blow great guns (Naut.), to blow a gale. See Gun, n., 3. GUN Gun, v. i. Defn: To practice fowling or hunting small game; -- chiefly in participial form; as, to go gunning. GUNA Gu"na (goo"na), n. Etym: [Skr. guna quality.] Defn: In Sanskrit grammar, a lengthening of the simple vowels a, i, e, by prefixing an a element. The term is sometimes used to denote the same vowel change in other languages. GUNARCHY Gu"nar*chy, n. Defn: See Gynarchy. GUNBOAT Gun"boat`, n. (Nav.) Defn: A vessel of light draught, carrying one or more guns. GUNCOTTON Gun"cot`ton. Defn: See under Gun. GUNDELET Gun"de*let, n. [Obs.] Defn: See Gondola. Marston. GUNFLINT Gun"flint`, n. Defn: A sharpened flint for the lock of a gun, to ignite the charge. It was in common use before the introduction of percussion caps. GUNJAH Gun"jah, n. (Bot.) Defn: See Ganja. GUNLOCK Gun"lock`, n. Defn: The lock of a gun, for producing the discharge. See Lock. GUNNAGE Gun"nage, n. Defn: The number of guns carried by a ship of