[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

with his poniard finishes the work. Milton. 4. Of or pertaining to the time of death. Safe in the hand of one disposing Power, Or in the natal or the mortal hour. Pope. 5. Affecting as if with power to kill; deathly. The nymph grew pale, and in a mortal fright. Dryden. 6. Human; belonging to man, who is mortal; as, mortal wit or knowledge; mortal power. The voice of God To mortal ear is dreadful. Milton. 7. Very painful or tedious; wearisome; as, a sermon lasting two mortal hours. [Colloq.] Sir W. Scott. Mortal foe, Mortal enemy, an inveterate, desperate, or implacable enemy; a foe bent on one's destruction. MORTAL Mor"tal, n. Defn: A being subject to death; a human being; man. "Warn poor mortals left behind." Tickell. MORTALITY Mor*tal"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. mortalitas: cf. F. mortalité.] 1. The condition or quality of being mortal; subjection to death or to the necessity of dying. When I saw her die, I then did think on your mortality. Carew. 2. Human life; the life of a mortal being. From this instant There 's nothing serious in mortality. Shak. 3. Those who are, or that which is, mortal; the human cace; humanity; human nature. Take these tears, mortality's relief. Pope. 4. Death; destruction. Shak. 5. The whole sum or number of deaths in a given time or a given community; also, the proportion of deaths to population, or to a specific number of the population; death rate; as, a time of great, or low, mortality; the mortality among the settlers was alarming. Bill of mortality. See under Bill. -- Law of mortality, a mathematical relation between the numbers living at different ages, so that from a given large number of persons alive at one age, it can be computed what number are likely to survive a given number of years. -- Table of mortality, a table exhibiting the average relative number of persons who survive, or who have died, at the end of each year of life, out of a given number supposed to have been born at the same time. MORTALIZE Mor"tal*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Mortalized; p. pr. & vb. n. Mortalizing.] Defn: To make mortal. [R.] MORTALLY Mor"tal*ly, adv. 1. In a mortal manner; so as to cause death; as, mortally wounded. 2. In the manner of a mortal or of mortal beings. I was mortally brought forth. Shak. 3. In an extreme degree; to the point of dying or causing death; desperately; as, mortally jealous. Adrian mortally envied poets, painters, and artificers, in works wherein he had a vein to excel. Bacon. MORTALNESS Mor"tal*ness, n. Defn: Quality of being mortal; mortality. MORTAR Mor"tar, n. Etym: [OE. morter, AS. mortere, L. mortarium: cf. F. mortier mortar. Cf. sense 2 (below), also 2d Mortar, Martel, Morter.] 1. A strong vessel, commonly in form of an inverted bell, in which substances are pounded or rubbed with a pestle. 2. Etym: [F. mortier, fr. L. mortarium mortar (for trituarating).] (Mil.) Defn: A short piece of ordnance, used for throwing bombs, carcasses, shells, etc., at high angles of elevation, as 45º, and even higher; - - so named from its resemblance in shape to the utensil above described. Mortar bed (Mil.), a framework of wood and iron, suitably hollowed out to receive the breech and trunnions of a mortar. -- Mortar boat or vessel (Naut.), a boat strongly built and adapted to carrying a mortar or mortars for bombarding; a bomb ketch. -- Mortar piece, a mortar. [Obs.] Shak. MORTAR Mor"tar, n. Etym: [OE. mortier, F. mortier, L. mortarium mortar, a large basin or trough in which mortar is made, a mortar (in sense 1, above). See 1st Mortar.] (Arch.) Defn: A building material made by mixing lime, cement, or plaster of Paris, with sand, water, and sometimes other materials; -- used in masonry for joining stones, bricks, etc., also for plastering, and in other ways. Mortar bed, a shallow box or receptacle in which mortar is mixed. -- Mortar board. (a) A small square board with a handle beneath, for holding mortar; a hawk. (b) A cap with a broad, projecting, square top; -- worn by students in some colleges. [Slang] MORTAR Mor"tar, v. t. Defn: To plaster or make fast with mortar. MORTAR Mor"tar, n. Etym: [F. mortier. See Mortar a vessel.] Defn: A chamber lamp or light. [Obs.] Chaucer. MORTGAGE Mort"gage, n. Etym: [F. mort-gage; mort dead (L. mortuus) + gage pledge. See Mortal, and Gage.] 1. (Law) Defn: A conveyance of property, upon condition, as security for the payment of a debt or the preformance of a duty, and to become void upon payment or performance according to the stipulated terms; also, the written instrument by which the conveyance is made. Note: It was called a mortgage (or dead pledge) because, whatever profit it might yield, it did not thereby redeem itself, but became lost or dead to the mortgager upon breach of the condition. But in equity a right of redemption is an inseparable incident of a mortgage until the mortgager is debarred by his own laches, or by judicial decree. Cowell. Kent. 2. State of being pledged; as, lands given in mortgage. Chattel mortgage. See under Chattel. -- To foreclose a mortgage. See under Foreclose. -- Mortgage deed (Law), a deed given by way of mortgage. MORTGAGE Mort"gage, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Mortgaged; p. pr. & vb. n. Mortgaging.] 1. (Law) Defn: To grant or convey, as property, for the security of a debt, or other engagement, upon a condition that if the debt or engagement shall be discharged according to the contract, the conveyance shall be void, otherwise to become absolute, subject, however, to the right of redemption. 2. Hence: To pledge, either literally or figuratively; to make subject to a claim or obligation. Mortgaging their lives to covetise. Spenser. I myself an mortgaged to thy will. Shak. MORTGAGEE Mort`ga*gee", n. (Law) Defn: The person to whom property is mortgaged, or to whom a mortgage is made or given. MORTGAGEOR; MORTGAGOR Mort"gage*or, Mort"ga*gor, n. (Law) Defn: One who gives a mortgage. Note: The letter e is required analogically after the second g in order to soften it; but the spelling mortgagor is in fact the prevailing form. When the word is contradistinguished from mortgagee it is accented on the last syllable ( MORTGAGER Mort"ga*ger, n. (Law) Defn: gives a mortgage. MORTIFEROUS Mor"tif"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. mortifier; mors, mortis, death + ferre to bring: cf. F. mortifère.] Defn: Bringing or producing death; deadly; destructive; as, a mortiferous herb. Gov. of Tongue. MORTIFICATION Mor`ti*fi*ca"tion, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. mortificatio a killing. See Mortify.] 1. The act of mortifying, or the condition of being mortified; especially: (a) (Med.) The death of one part of an animal body, while the rest continues to live; loss of vitality in some part of a living animal; gangrene. Dunglison. (b) (Alchem. & Old Chem.) Destruction of active qualities; neutralization. [Obs.] Bacon. (c) Subjection of the passions and appetites, by penance, absistence, or painful severities inflicted on the body. The mortification of our lusts has something in it that is troublesome, yet nothing that is unreasonable. Tillotson. (d) Hence: Deprivation or depression of self-approval; abatement or pride; humiliation; chagrin; vexation. We had the mortification to lose sight of Munich, Augsburg, and Ratisbon. Addison. 2. That which mortifies; the cause of humiliation, chagrin, or vexation. It is one of the vexatious mortifications of a studious man to have his thoughts discovered by a tedious visit. L'Estrange. 3. (Scots Law) Defn: A gift to some charitable or religious institution; -- nearly synonymous with mortmain. Syn. -- Chagrin; vexation; shame. See Chagrin. MORTIFIED Mor"ti*fied, imp. & p. p. Defn: of Mortify. MORTIFIEDNESS Mor"ti*fied*ness, n. Defn: The state of being mortified; humiliation; subjection of the passions. [R.] MORTIFIER Mor"ti*fi`er, n. Defn: One who, or that which, mortifies. MORTIFY Mor"ti*fy, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Mortified; p. pr. & vb. n. Mortifying.] Etym: [OE. mortifien, F. mortifier, fr. L. mortificare; L. mors, mortis, death + -ficare (in comp.) to make. See Mortal, and -fy.] 1. To destroy the organic texture and vital functions of; to produce gangrene in. 2. To destroy the active powers or essential qualities of; to change by chemical action. [Obs.] Chaucer. Quicksilver is mortified with turpentine. Bacon. He mortified pearls in vinegar. Hakewill. 3. To deaden by religious or other discipline, as the carnal affections, bodily appetites, or worldly desires; to bring into subjection; to abase; to humble. With fasting mortified, worn out with tears. Harte. Mortify thy learned lust. Prior. Mortify, rherefore, your members which are upon the earth. Col. iii. 5. 4. To affect with vexation, chagrin, or humiliation; to humble; to depress. The news of the fatal battle of Worcester, which exceedingly mortified our expectations. Evelyn. How often is the ambitious man mortified with the very praises he receives, if they do not rise so high as he thinks they ought! Addison. MORTIFY Mor"ti*fy, v. i.