[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

one part upon another, without the intervention of other working parts. Direct-acting steam engine, one in which motion is transmitted to the crank without the intervention of a beam or lever; -- also called direct-action steam engine. -- Direct-acting steam pump, one in which the steam piston rod is directly connected with the pump rod; -- also called direct-action steam pump. DIRECT ACTION Direct action. (Trade unions) Defn: See Syndicalism, below. DIRECT-COUPLED Di*rect"-cou"pled, a. Defn: Coupled without intermediate connections, as an engine and a dynamo. Direct-coupled antenna (Wireless Teleg.), an antenna connected electrically with one point of a closed oscillation circuit in syntony with it and earthed. DIRECT CURRENT Direct current. (Elec.) (a) A current flowing in one direction only; -- distinguished from alternating current. When steady and not pulsating a direct current is often called a continuous current. (b) A direct induced current, or momentary current of the same direction as the inducing current, produced by stopping or removing the latter; also, a similar current produced by removal of a magnet. DIRECTER Di*rect"er, n. Defn: One who directs; a director. Directer plane (Geom.), the plane to which all right-lined elements in a warped surface are parallel. DIRECTION Di*rec"tion, n. Etym: [L. directio: cf. F. direction.] 1. The act of directing, of aiming, regulating, guiding, or ordering; guidance; management; superintendence; administration; as, the direction o. I do commit his youth To your direction. Shak. All nature is but art, unknown to thee;direction, which thou canst not see. Pope. 2. That which is imposed by directing; a guiding or authoritative instruction; prescription; order; command; as, he grave directions to the servants. The princes digged the well . . . by the direction of the law giver. Numb. xxi. 18. 3. The name and residence of a person to whom any thing is sent, written upon the thing sent; superscription; address; as, the direction of a letter. 4. The line or course upon which anything is moving or aimed to move, or in which anything is lying or pointing; aim; line or point of tendency; direct line or course; as, the ship sailed in a southeasterly direction. 5. The body of managers of a corporation or enterprise; board of directors. 6. (Gun.) Defn: The pointing of a piece with reference to an imaginary vertical axis; -- distinguished from elevation. The direction is given when the plane of sight passes through the object. Wilhelm. Syn. -- Administration; guidance; management; superintendence; oversight; government; order; command; guide; clew. Direction, Control, Command, Order. These words, as here compared, have reference to the exercise of power over the actions of others. Control is negative, denoting power to restrain; command is positive, implying a right to enforce obedience; directions are commands containing instructions how to act. Order conveys more prominently the idea of authority than the word direction. A shipmaster has the command of his vessel; he gives orders or directions to the seamen as to the mode of sailing it; and exercises a due control over the passengers. DIRECTIVE Di*rect"ive, a. Etym: [LL. directivus: cf. F. directif.] 1. Having power to direct; tending to direct, guide, or govern; showing the way. Hooker. The precepts directive of our practice in relation to God. Barrow. 2. Able to be directed; manageable. [Obs.] Swords and bows Directive by the limbs. Shak. DIRECTLY Di*rect"ly, adv. 1. In a direct manner; in a straight line or course. "To run directly on." Shak. Indirectly and directly too Thou hast contrived against the very life Of the defendant. Shak. 2. In a straightforward way; without anything intervening; not by secondary, but by direct, means. 3. Without circumlocution or ambiguity; absolutely; in express terms. No man hath hitherto been so impious as plainly and directly to condemn prayer. Hooker. 4. Exactly; just. Stand you directly in Antonius' way. Shak. 5. Straightforwardly; honestly. I have dealt most directly in thy affair. Shak. 6. Manifestly; openly. [Obs.] Desdemona is directly in love with him. Shak. 7. Straightway; next in order; without delay; immediately. "Will she go now to bed' Directly.'" Shak. 8. Immediately after; as soon as. Directly he stopped, the coffin was removed. Dickens. Note: This use of the word is common in England, especially in colloquial speech, but it can hardly be regarded as a well-sanctioned or desirable use. Directly proportional (Math.), proportional in the order of the terms; increasing or decreasing together, and with a constant ratio; -- opposed to inversely proportional. Syn. -- Immediately; forthwith; straightway; instantly; instantaneously; soon; promptly; openly; expressly. -- Directly, Immediately, Instantly, Instantaneously. Directly denotes, without any delay or diversion of attention; immediately implies, without any interposition of other occupation; instantly implies, without any intervention of time. Hence, "I will do it directly," means, "I will go straightway about it." "I will do it immediately," means, "I will do it as the very next thing." "I will do it instantly," allows not a particle of delay. Instantaneously, like instantly, marks an interval too small to be appreciable, but commonly relates to physical causes; as, the powder touched by fire instantaneously exploded. DIRECTNESS Di*rect"ness, n. Defn: The quality of being direct; straightness; straightforwardness; immediateness. DIRECT NOMINATION Direct nomination. (Political Science) Defn: The nomination or designation of candidates for public office by direct popular vote rather than through the action of a convention or body of elected nominating representatives or delegates. The term is applied both to the nomination of candidates without any nominating convention, and, loosely, to the nomination effected, as in the case of candidates for president or senator of the United States, by the election of nominating representatives pledged or instructed to vote for certain candidates dssignated by popular vote. DIRECTOIRE STYLE Di`rec`toire" style. (Dressmaking) Defn: A style of dress prevalent at the time of the French Directory, characterized by great extravagance of design and imitating the Greek and Roman costumes. DIRECTOR Di*rect"or, n. Etym: [Cf. F. directeur.] 1. One who, or that which, directs; one who regulates, guides, or orders; a manager or superintendent. In all affairs thou sole director. Swift. 2. One of a body of persons appointed to manage the affairs of a company or corporation; as, the directors of a bank, insurance company, or railroad company. What made directors cheat in South-Sea year Pope. 3. (Mech.) Defn: A part of a machine or instrument which directs its motion or action. 4. (Surg.) Defn: A slender grooved instrument upon which a knife is made to slide when it is wished to limit the extent of motion of the latter, or prevent its injuring the parts beneath. DIRECTORATE Di*rect"o*rate, n. Etym: [Cf. F. directorat.] Defn: The office of director; also, a body of directors taken jointly. DIRECTORIAL Di*rec*to"ri*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. directorial.] 1. Having the quality of a director, or authoritative guide; directive. 2. Pertaining to: director or directory; specifically, relating to the Directory of France under the first republic. See Directory, 3. Whoever goes to the directorial presence under this passport. Burke. DIRECTORSHIP Di*rect"or*ship, n. Defn: The condition or office of a director; directorate. DIRECTORY Di*rect"o*ry, a. Etym: [L. directorius.] Defn: Containing directions; enjoining; instructing; directorial. DIRECTORY Di*rect"o*ry, n.; pl. Directories (. 1. A collection or body of directions, rules, or ordinances; esp., a book of directions for the conduct of worship; as, the Directory used by the nonconformists instead of the Prayer Book. 2. A book containing the names and residences of the inhabitants of any place, or of classes of them; an address book; as, a business directory. 3. Etym: [Cf. F. directoire.] Defn: A body of directors; board of management; especially, a committee which held executive power in France under the first republic. 4. Direction; guide. [R.] Whitlock. DIRECT PRIMARY Direct primary. (Political Science) Defn: A primary by which direct nominations of candidates for office are made. DIRECTRESS Di*rect"ress, n. Defn: A woman who directs. Bp. Hurd. DIRECTRIX Di*rect"rix, n.; pl. E. Directrixes (, L. Directrices (. 1. A directress. [R.] Jer. Taylor. 2. (Geom.) (a) A line along which a point in another line moves, or which in any way governs the motion of the point and determines the position of the curve generated by it; the line along which the generatrix moves in generating a surface. (b) A straight line so situated with respect to a conic section that the distance of any point of the curve from it has a constant ratio to the distance of the same point from the focus. DIREFUL Dire"ful, a. Etym: [Dire + -ful.] Defn: Dire; dreadful; terrible; calamitous; woeful; as, a direful fiend; a direful day. -- Dire"ful*ly, adv. -- Dire"ful*ness, n. DIRELY Dire"ly, adv. Defn: In a dire manner. Drayton. DIREMPT Di*rempt", a. Etym: [L. diremptus, p. p. of dirimere to take apart, separate; di- = dis- + emere to buy, orig., to take.] Defn: Divided; separated. [Obs.] Stow. DIREMPT Di*rempt", v. t. Defn: To separate by force; to tear apart. [Obs.] Holinshed. DIREMPTION Di*remp"tion, n. Etym: [L. diremptio.] Defn: A tearing apart; violent separation. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. DIRENESS Dire"ness, n.