[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

branch. 2. Destitute of arms or weapons. ARMLET Arm"let, n. Etym: [Arm + -let.] 1. A small arm; as, an armlet of the sea. Johnson. 2. An arm ring; a bracelet for the upper arm. 3. Armor for the arm. ARMONIAC Ar*mo"ni*ac, a. Defn: Ammoniac. [Obs.] ARMOR Ar"mor, n. Etym: [OE. armure, fr. F. armure, OF. armeure, fr. L. armatura. See Armature.] [Spelt also armour.] 1. Defensive arms for the body; any clothing or covering worn to protect one's person in battle. Note: In English statues, armor is used for the whole apparatus of war, including offensive as well as defensive arms. The statues of armor directed what arms every man should provide. 2. Steel or iron covering, whether of ships or forts, protecting them from the fire of artillery. Coat armor, the escutcheon of a person or family, with its several charges and other furniture, as mantling, crest, supporters, motto, etc. -- Submarine, a water-tight dress or covering for a diver. See under Submarine. ARMOR-BEARER Ar"mor-bear`er, n. Defn: One who carries the armor or arms of another; an armiger. Judg. ix. 54. ARMORED Ar"mored, a. Defn: Clad with armor. ARMORED CRUISER Ar"mored cruis"er. (Nav.) Defn: A man-of-war carrying a large coal supply, and more or less protected from the enemy's shot by iron or steel armor. There is no distinct and accepted classification distinguishing armored and protected cruisers from each other, except that the first have more or heavier armor than the second. ARMORER Ar"mor*er, n. Etym: [OE. armurer, armerer, fr. F. armurter, fr. armure armor.] 1. One who makes or repairs armor or arms. 2. Formerly, one who had care of the arms and armor of a knight, and who dressed him in armor. Shak. 3. One who has the care of arms and armor, cleans or repairs them, etc. ARMORIAL Ar*mo"ri*al, a. Etym: [F. armorial, fr. armoiries arms, coats of arms, for armoieries, fr. OF. armoier to paint arms, coats of arms, fr. armes, fr. L. arma. See Arms, Armory.] Defn: Belonging to armor, or to the heraldic arms or escutcheon of a family. Figures with armorial signs of race and birth. Wordsworth. Armorial bearings. See Arms, 4. ARMORIC; ARMORICAN Ar*mor"ic, Ar*mor"i*can, a. Etym: [L. Armoricus, fr. Celtic ar on, at + mor sea.] Defn: Of or pertaining to the northwestern part of France (formerly called Armorica, now Bretagne or Brittany), or to its people. -- n. Defn: The language of the Armoricans, a Celtic dialect which has remained to the present times. ARMORICAN Ar*mor"i*can, n. Defn: A native of Armorica. ARMORIST Ar"mor*ist, n. Etym: [F. armoriste.] Defn: One skilled in coat armor or heraldry. Cussans. ARMOR-PLATED Ar"mor-plat`ed, a. Defn: Covered with defensive plates of metal, as a ship of war; steel-clad. This day will be launched . . . the first armor-plated steam frigate in the possession of Great Britain. Times (Dec. 29, 1860). ARMORY Ar"mo*ry, n.; pl. Armories. Etym: [OF. armaire, armarie, F. armoire, fr. L. armarium place for keeping arms; but confused with F. armoiries. See Armorial, Ambry.] 1. A place where arms and instruments of war are deposited for safe keeping. 2. Armor: defensive and offensive arms. Celestial armory, shields, helms, and spears. Milton. 3. A manufactory of arms, as rifles, muskets, pistols, bayonets, swords. [U.S.] 4. Ensigns armorial; armorial bearings. Spensplw. 5. That branch of hplwaldry which treats of coat armor. The science of heraldry, or, more justly speaking, armory, which is but one branch of heraldry, is, without doubt, of very ancient origin. Cussans. ARMOZEEN; ARMOZINE Ar`mo*zeen", Ar`mo*zine", n. Etym: [armosin, armoisin.] Defn: A thick plain silk, generally black, and used for clerical. Simmonds. ARMPIT Arm"pit`, n. Etym: [Arm + pit.] Defn: The hollow beneath the junction of the arm and shoulder; the axilla. ARMRACK Arm"rack`, n. Defn: A frame, generally vertical, for holding small arms. ARMS Arms, n. pl. Etym: [OE. armes, F. arme, pl. armes, fr. L. arma, pl., arms, orig. fittings, akin to armus shoulder, and E. arm. See Arm, n.] 1. Instruments or weapons of offense or defense. He lays down his arms, but not his wiles. Milton. Three horses and three goodly suits of arms. Tennyson. 2. The deeds or exploits of war; military service or science. "Arms and the man I sing." Dryden. 3. (Law) Defn: Anything which a man takes in his hand in anger, to strike or assault another with; an aggressive weapon. Cowell. Blackstone. 4. (Her.) Defn: The ensigns armorial of a family, consisting of figures and colors borne in shields, banners, etc., as marks of dignity and distinction, and descending from father to son. 5. (Falconry) Defn: The legs of a hawk from the thigh to the foot. Halliwell. Bred to arms, educated to the profession of a soldier. -- In arms, armed for war; in a state of hostility. -- Small arms, portable firearms known as muskets, rifles, carbines, pistols, etc. -- A stand of arms, a complete set for one soldier, as a musket, bayonet, cartridge box and belt; frequently, the musket and bayonet alone. -- To arms! a summons to war or battle. -- Under arms, armed and equipped and in readiness for battle, or for a military parade. Arm's end, Arm's length, Arm's reach. See under Arm. ARMURE Ar"mure, n. Etym: [F. See Armor.] 1. Armor. [Obs.] Chaucer. 2. A variety of twilled fabric ribbed on the surface. ARMY Ar"my, n. Etym: [F. armée, fr. L. armata, fem. of armatus, p. p. of armare to arm. Cf. Armada.] 1. A collection or body of men armed for war, esp. one organized in companies, battalions, regiments, brigades, and divisions, under proper officers. 2. A body of persons organized for the advancement of a cause; as, the Blue Ribbon Army. 3. A great number; a vast multitude; a host. An army of good words. Shak. Standing army, a permanent army of professional soldiers, as distinguished from militia or volunteers. ARMY ORGANIZATION Army organization. Defn: The system by which a country raises, classifies, arranges, and equips its armed land forces. The usual divisions are: (1) A regular or active army, in which soldiers serve continuously with the colors and live in barracks or cantonments when not in the field; (2) the reserves of this army, in which the soldiers, while remaining constantly subject to a call to the colors, live at their homes, being summoned more or less frequently to report for instruction, drill, or maneuvers; and (3) one or more classes of soldiers organized largely for territorial defense, living at home and having only occasional periods of drill and instraction, who are variously called home reserves (as in the table below), second, third, etc., line of defense (the regular army and its reserves ordinarily constituting the first line of defense), territorial forces, or the like. In countries where conscription prevails a soldier is supposed to serve a given number of years. He is usually enrolled first in the regular army, then passes to its reserve, then into the home reserves, to serve until he reaches the age limit. It for any reason he is not enrolled in the regular army, he may begin his service in the army reserves or even the home reserves, but then serves the full number of years or up to the age limit. In equipment the organization of the army is into the three great arms of infantry, cavalry, and artillery, together with more or less numerous other branches, such as engineers, medical corps, etc., besides the staff organizations such as those of the pay and subsistence departments. ARMY WORM Ar"my worm`. (Zoöl.) (a) A lepidopterous insect, which in the larval state often travels in great multitudes from field to field, destroying grass, grain, and other crops. The common army worm of the northern United States is Leucania unipuncta. The name is often applied to other related species, as the cotton worm. (b) The larva of a small two-winged fly (Sciara), which marches in large companies, in regular order. See Cotton worm, under Cotton. ARNA; ARNEE Ar"na, Ar"nee, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: The wild buffalo of India (Bos, or Bubalus, arni), larger than the domestic buffalo and having enormous horns. ARNATTO Ar*nat"to, n. Defn: See Annotto. ARNAUT; ARNAOUT Ar*naut" Ar*naout", n. [Turk. Arnaut, fr. NGr. , for .] Defn: An inhabitant of Albania and neighboring mountainous regions, specif. one serving as a soldier in the Turkish army. ARNICA Ar"ni*ca, n. Etym: [Prob. a corruption of ptarmica.] (Bot.) Defn: A genus of plants; also, the most important species (Arnica montana), native of the mountains of Europe, used in medicine as a narcotic and stimulant. Note: The tincture of arnica is applied externally as a remedy for bruises, sprains, etc. ARNICIN Ar"ni*cin, n. Etym: [See Arnica.] (Chem.) Defn: An active principle of Arnica montana. It is a bitter resin. ARNICINE Ar"ni*cine, n. (Chem.) Defn: An alkaloid obtained from the arnica plant. ARNOT; ARNUT Ar"not, Ar"nut, n. Etym: [Cf. D. aardnoot, E. earthut.] Defn: The earthnut. [Obs.] ARNOTTO Ar*not"to, n. Defn: Same as Annotto. AROID; AROIDEOUS A"roid, A*roid"e*ous,