[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

on hidden or very slight grounds: as, to guess a riddle; to guess out the meaning of an obscure passage. The use of the word guess for think or believe, although abundantly sanctioned by good English authors, is now regarded as antiquated and objectionable by discriminating writers. It may properly be branded as a colloguialism and vulgarism when used respecting a purpose or a thing about which there is no uncertainty; as, I guess I 'll go to bed. GUESS Guess, v. i. Defn: To make a guess or random judgment; to conjecture; -- with at, about, etc This is the place, as well as I may guess. Milton. GUESS Guess, n. Defn: An opinion as to anything, formed without sufficient or decisive evidence or grounds; an attempt to hit upon the truth by a random judgment; a conjecture; a surmise. A poet must confess His art 's like physic -- but a happy guess. Dryden. GUESSABLE Guess"a*ble, a. Defn: Capable of being guessed. GUESSER Guess"er, n. Defn: One who guesses; one who forms or gives an opinion without means of knowing. GUESSINGLY Guess"ing*ly, adv. Defn: By way of conjecture. Shak. GUESSIVE Guess"ive, a. Defn: Conjectural. [Obs.] Feltham. GUESS ROPE Guess" rope". (Naut.) Defn: A guess warp. GUESS WARP Guess" warp". (Naut.) Defn: A rope or hawser by which a vessel is towed or warped along; -- so called because it is necessary to guess at the length to be carried in the boat making the attachment to a distant object. GUESSWORK Guess"work`, n. Defn: Work performed, or results obtained, by guess; conjecture. GUEST Guest, n. Etym: [OE. gest, AS. gæst, gest; akin to OS., D., & G. gust, Icel gestr, Sw. gäst, Dan. Gjäst, Goth. gast, Russ. goste, and to L. hostis enemy, stranger; the meaning stranger is the older one, but the root is unknown. Cf. Host an army, Hostile.] 1. A visitor; a person received and entertained in one's house or at one's table; a visitor entertained without pay. To cheer his gueste, whom he had stayed that night. Spenser. True friendship's laws are by this rule exprest. Welcome the coming, speed the parting guest. Pope. GUEST Guest, v. t. Defn: To receive or entertain hospitably. [Obs.] Sylvester. GUEST Guest, v. i. Defn: To be, or act the part of, a guest. [Obs.] And tell me, best of princes, who he was That guested here so late. Chapman. GUEST ROPE Guest" rope". (Naut.) Defn: The line by which a boat makes fast to the swinging boom. Ham. Nav. Encyc. GUESTWISE Guest"wise", adv. Defn: In the manner of a guest. GUEVI Gue"vi, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: One of several very small species and varieties of African antelopes, of the genus Cephalophus, as the Cape guevi or kleeneboc (C. pyg. mæa); -- called also pygmy antelope. GUFFAW Guf*faw" (, n. Defn: A loud burst of laughter, a horse laugh. "A hearty low guffaw." Carlyle. GUFFER Guf"fer, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: The eelpout; guffer eel. GUGGLE Gug"gle, v. i. Defn: See Gurgle. GUHR Guhr, n. Etym: [G.] Defn: A loose, earthy deposit from water, found in the cavities or clefts of rocks, mostly white, but sometimes red or yellow, from a mixture of clay or ocher. P. Cleaveland. GUIAC Gui"ac, n. Defn: Same as Guaiac. GUIACOL Gui"a*col, n. Etym: [Guiac + -ol.] (Chem.) Defn: A colorless liquid, C6H4,OCH3.OH, resembling the phenols, found as a constituent of woodtar creosote, aud produced by the dry distillation of guaiac resin. GUIACUM Gui"a*cum, n. Defn: Same as Guaiacum. GUIB Guib, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: A West African antelope (Tragelaphus scriptus), curiously marked with white stripes and spots on a reddish fawn ground, and hence called harnessed antelope; -- called also guiba. GUICOWAR Gui"co*war, n. Defn: [Mahratta gaekwar, prop., a cowherd.] The title of the sovereign of Guzerat, in Western India; -- generally called the Guicowar of Baroda, which is the capital of the country. GUIDABLE Guid"a*ble, a. Defn: Capable of being guided; willing to be guided or counseled. Sprat. GUIDAGE Guid"age, n. Etym: [See Guide.] 1. The reward given to a guide for services. [R.] Ainsworth. 2. Guidance; lead; direction. [R.] Southey. GUIDANCE Guid"ance, n. Etym: [See Guide.] Defn: The act or result of guiding; the superintendence or assistance of a guide; direction; government; a leading. His studies were without guidance and without plan. Macaulay. GUIDE Guide, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Guided; p. pr. & vb. n. Guiding.] Etym: [OE. guiden, gyden, F. guiaer, It. guidare; prob. of Teutonic origin; cf. Goth. ritan to watch over, give heed to, Icel. viti signal, AS. witan to know. The word prob. meant, to indicate, point to, and hence, to show the way. Cf. Wit, Guy a rope, Gye.] 1. To lead or direct in a way; to conduct in a course or path; to pilot; as, to guide a traveler. I wish . . . you 'ld guide me to your sovereign's court. Shak. 2. To regulate and manage; to direct; to order; to superintend the training or education of; to instruct and influence intellectually or morally; to train. He will guide his affairs with discretion. Ps. cxii. 5. The meek will he guide in judgment. Ps. xxv. 9. GUIDE Guide, n. Etym: [OE. giae, F. guide, It. guida. See Guide, v. t.] 1. A person who leads or directs another in his way or course, as in a strange land; one who exhibits points of interest to strangers; a conductor; also, that which guides; a guidebook. 2. One who, or that which, directs another in his conduct or course of lifo; a director; a regulator. He will be our guide, even unto death. Ps. xlviii. 14. 3. Any contrivance, especially one having a directing edge, surface, or channel, for giving direction to the motion of anything, as water, an instrument, or part of a machine, or for directing the hand or eye, as of an operator; as: (a) (Water Wheels) A blade or channel for directing the flow of water to the wheel buckets. (b) (Surgery) Defn: A grooved director for a probe or knife. (c) (Printing) A strip or device to direct the compositor's eye to the line of copy he is setting. 4. (Mil.) Defn: A noncommissioned officer or soldier placed on the directiug flank of each subdivision of a column of troops, or at the end of a line, to mark the pivots, formations, marches, and alignments in tactics. Farrow. Guide bar (Mach.), the part of a steam engine on which the crosshead slides, and by which the motion of the piston rod is kept parallel to the cylinder, being a substitute for the parallel motion; -- called also guide, and slide bar. -- Guide block (Steam Engine), a block attached in to the crosshead to work in contact with the guide bar. -- Guide meridian. (Surveying) See under Meridian. -- Guide pile (Engin.), a pile driven to mark a place, as a point to work to. -- Guide pulley (Mach.), a pulley for directing or changing the line of motion of belt; an idler. Knight. -- Guide rail (Railroads), an additional rail, between the others, gripped by horizontal driving wheels on the locomotive, as a means of propulsion on steep gradients. GUIDEBOARD Guide"board`, n. Defn: A board, as upon a guidepost having upon it directions or information as to the road. Lowell. GUIDEBOOK Guide"book`, n. Defn: A book of directions and information for travelers, tourists, etc. GUIDELESS Guide"less, a. Defn: Without a guide. Dryden. GUIDEPOST Guide"post`, n. Defn: A post at the fork of a road, with a guideboard on it, to direct travelers. GUIDER Guid"er, n. Defn: A guide; a director. Shak. GUIDERESS Guid"er*ess, n. Defn: A female guide. [Obs.] Chaucer. GUIDE ROPE Guide rope. (Aëronautics) Defn: A rope hung from a balloon or dirigible so as trail along the ground for about half its length, used to preserve altitude automatically, by variation of the length dragging on the ground, without loss of ballast or gas. GUIDGUID Guid"guid`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: A South American ant bird of the genus Hylactes; -- called also barking bird. GUIDON Gui"don, n. Etym: [F. guidon, It. guidone. See Guide, v. t.] 1. A small flag or streamer, as that carried by cavalry, which is broad at one end and nearly pointed at the other, or that used to direct the movements of a body of infantry, or to make signals at sea; also, the flag of a guild or fraternity. In the United States service, each company of cavalry has a guidon. The pendants and guidons were carried by the officer of the army. Evelyn. 2. One who carries a flag. Johnson. 3. One of a community established at Rome, by Charlemagne, to guide pilgrims to the Holy Land. GUIGE Guige, n. [Obs.] Defn: See Gige. GUILD Guild, n. Etym: [OE. gilds, AS. gild, gield, geld, tribute, a society or company where payment was made for its charge and support, fr. AS. gildan, gieldan, to pay. See Yield, v. t.] 1. An association of men