[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

Walpole. TURNEY Tur"ney, n. & v. Defn: Tourney. [Obs.] Chaucer. "In open turney." Spenser. Milton. TURNHALLE Turn"hal`le, n. Etym: [G., from turnen to exercise gymnastics + halle hall.] Defn: A building used as a school of gymnastics. TURNICIMORPHAE Tur`ni*ci*mor"phæ, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Turnix, and -morphous.] (Zoöl.) Defn: A division of birds including Turnix and allied genera, resembling quails in appearance but differing from them anatomically. TURNING Turn"ing, n. 1. The act of one who, or that which, turns; also, a winding; a bending course; a fiexure; a meander. Through paths and turnings often trod by day. Milton. 2. The place of a turn; an angle or corner, as of a road. It is preached at every turning. Coleridge. 3. Deviation from the way or proper course. Harmar. 4. Turnery, or the shaping of solid substances into various by means of a lathe and cutting tools. 5. pl. Defn: The pieces, or chips, detached in the process of turning from the material turned. 6. (Mil.) Defn: A maneuver by which an enemy or a position is turned. Turning and boring mill, a kind of lathe having a vertical spindle and horizontal face plate, for turning and boring large work. -- Turning bridge. See the Note under Drawbridge. -- Turning engine, an engine lathe. -- Turning lathe, a lathe used by turners to shape their work. -- Turning pair. See the Note under Pair, n. -- Turning point, the point upon which a question turns, and which decides a case. TURNINGNESS Turn"ing*ness, n. Defn: The quality of turning; instability; tergiversation. [Obs.] Sir P. Sidney. TURNIP Tur"nip, n. Etym: [OE. turnep; probably fr. turn, or F. tour a turn, turning lathe + OE. nepe a turnip, AS. næpe, L. napus. Cf. Turn,v. t., Navew.] (Bot.) Defn: The edible, fleshy, roundish, or somewhat conical, root of a cruciferous plant (Brassica campestris, var. Napus); also, the plant itself. [Formerly written also turnep.] Swedish turnip (Bot.), a kind of turnip. See Ruta-baga. -- Turnip flea (Zoöl.), a small flea-beetle (Haltica, or Phyllotreta, striolata), which feeds upon the turnip, and often seriously injures it. It is black with a stripe of yellow on each elytron. The name is also applied to several other small insects which are injurious to turnips. See Illust. under Flea-beetle. -- Turnip fly. (Zoöl.) (a) The turnip flea. (b) A two-winged fly (Anthomyia radicum) whose larvæ live in the turnip root. TURNIP-SHELL Tur"nip-shell", n. (Zoöl.) Defn: Any one of several large, thick, spiral marine shells belonging to Rapa and allied genera, somewhat turnip-shaped. TURNIX Tur"nix, n. Etym: [NL., fr. L. coturnix a quail.] (Zoöl.) Defn: Any one of numerous species of birds belonging to Turnix or Hemipodius and allied genera of the family Turnicidæ. These birds resemble quails and partridges in general appearance and in some of their habits, but differ in important anatomical characteristics. The hind toe is usually lacking. They are found in Asia, Africa, Southern Europe, the East Indian Islands, and esp. in Australia and adjacent islands, where they are called quails (see Quail, n., 3.). See Turnicimorphæ. TURNKEY Turn"key`, n.; pl. Turnkeys (. 1. A person who has charge of the keys of a prison, for opening and fastening the doors; a warder. 2. (Dentistry) Defn: An instrument with a hinged claw, -- used for extracting teeth with a twist. TURN-OUT Turn"-out`, n.; pl. Turn-outs (. 1. The act of coming forth; a leaving of houses, shops, etc.; esp., a quitting of employment for the purpose of forcing increase of wages; a strike; -- opposed to lockout. 2. A short side track on a railroad, which may be occupied by one train while another is passing on a main track; a shunt; a siding; a switch. 3. That which is prominently brought forward or exhibited; hence, an equipage; as, a man with a showy carriage and horses is said to have a fine turn-out. 4. The aggregate number of persons who have come out, as from their houses, for a special purpose. 5. Net quantity of produce yielded. TURNOVER Turn"o`ver, n. 1. The act or result of turning over; an upset; as, a bad turnover in a carriage. 2. A semicircular pie or tart made by turning one half of a circular crust over the other, inclosing the fruit or other materials. 3. An apprentice, in any trade, who is handed over from one master to another to complete his time. TURNOVER Turn"o`ver, a. Defn: Admitting of being turned over; made to be turned over; as, a turnover collar, etc. TURNPIKE Turn"pike`, n. Etym: [Turn + pike.] 1. A frame consisting of two bars crossing each other at right angles and turning on a post or pin, to hinder the passage of beasts, but admitting a person to pass between the arms; a turnstile. See Turnstile, 1. I move upon my axle like a turnpike. B. Jonson. 2. A gate or bar set across a road to stop carriages, animals, and sometimes people, till toll is paid for keeping the road in repair; a tollgate. 3. A turnpike road. De Foe. 4. A winding stairway. [Scot.] Sir W. Scott. 5. (Mil.) Defn: A beam filled with spikes to obstruct passage; a cheval-de- frise. [R.] Turnpike man, a man who collects tolls at a turnpike. -- Turnpike road, a road on which turnpikes, or tollgates, are established by law, in order to collect from the users tolls to defray the cost of building, repairing, etc. TURNPIKE Turn"pike`, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Turnpiked; p. pr. & vb. n. Turnpiking.] Defn: To form, as a road, in the manner of a turnpike road; into a rounded form, as the path of a road. Knowles. TURNPLATE Turn"plate`, n. Defn: A turntable. TURN-SICK Turn"-sick`, a. Defn: Giddy. [Obs.] Bacon. TURN-SICK Turn"-sick`, n. (For.) Defn: A disease with which sheep are sometimes affected; gid; sturdy. See Gid. TURNSOLE Turn"sole`, n. Etym: [F. tournesol, It. tornasole; tornare to turn (LL. tornare) + sole the sun, L. sol. See Turn, Solar, a., and cf. Heliotrope.] [Written also turnsol.] 1. (Bot.) (a) A plant of the genus Heliotropium; heliotrope; -- so named because its flowers are supposed to turn toward the sun. (b) The sunflower. (c) A kind of spurge (Euphorbia Helioscopia). (d) The euphorbiaceous plant Chrozophora tinctoria. 2. (Chem.) (a) Litmus. [Obs.] (b) A purple dye obtained from the plant turnsole. See def. 1 (d). TURNSPIT Turn"spit`, n. 1. One who turns a spit; hence, a person engaged in some menial office. His lordship is his majesty's turnspit. Burke. 2. (Zoöl.) Defn: A small breed of dogs having a long body and short crooked legs. These dogs were formerly much used for turning a spit on which meat was roasting. TURNSTILE Turn"stile`, n. 1. A revolving frame in a footpath, preventing the passage of horses or cattle, but admitting that of persons; a turnpike. See Turnpike, n., 1. 2. A similar arrangement for registering the number of persons passing through a gateway, doorway, or the like. TURNSTONE Turn"stone`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: Any species of limicoline birds of the genera Strepsilas and Arenaria, allied to the plovers, especially the common American and European species (Strepsilas interpres). They are so called from their habit of turning up small stones in search of mollusks and other aquatic animals. Called also brant bird, sand runner, sea quail, sea lark, sparkback, and skirlcrake. Black turnstone, the California turnstone (Arenaria melanocephala). The adult in summer is mostly black, except some white streaks on the chest and forehead, and two white loral spots. TURNTABLE Turn"ta`ble, n. Defn: A large revolving platform, for turning railroad cars, locomotives, etc., in a different direction; -- called also turnplate. TURNUS Tur"nus, n. Etym: [NL., fr. L. Turnus, the king of the Rutuli, mentioned in the Æneid.] (Zoöl.) Defn: A common, large, handsome, American swallowtail butterfly, now regarded as one of the forms of Papilio, or Jasoniades, glaucus. The wings are yellow, margined and barred with black, and with an orange- red spot near the posterior angle of the hind wings. Called also tiger swallowtail. See Illust. under Swallowtail. TURNVEREIN Turn"ve*rein`, n. Etym: [G., from turnen to exercise + verein a union.] Defn: A company or association of gymnasts and athletes. TURNWREST Turn"wrest`, n. (a) Designating a cumbersome style of plow used in England, esp. in Kent. (b) designating a kind of hillside plow. [Eng.] Knight. TURONIAN Tu*ro"ni*an, n. (Geol.) Defn: One of the subdivisions into which the Upper Cretaceous formation of Europe is divided. TURPENTINE Tur"pen*tine, n. Etym: [F. térébentine, OF. also turbentine; cf. Pr. terebentina, terbentina, It. terebentina, trementina; fr. L. terebinthinus of the turpentine tree, from terebinthus the turpentine tree. Gr. Terebinth.] Defn: A semifluid or fluid oleoresin, primarily the exudation of the terebinth, or turpentine, tree (Pistacia Terebinthus), a native of the Mediterranean region. It is also obtained from many coniferous trees, especially species of pine, larch, and fir. Note: There are many varieties of turpentine. Chian turpentine is produced in small quantities by the turpentine tree (Pistacia Terebinthus). Venice, Swiss,