[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

a nearly conical form, but sometimes rectangular or oblong, contracted at the top to a point or ridge, and sometimes covered with thatch. But corn was housed, and beans were in the stack. Cowper. 2. A pile of poles or wood, indefinite in quantity. Against every pillar was a stack of billets above a man's height. Bacon. 3. A pile of wood containing 108 cubic feet. [Eng.] 4. (Arch.) (a) A number of flues embodied in one structure, rising above the roof. Hence: (b) Any single insulated and prominent structure, or upright pipe, which affords a conduit for smoke; as, the brick smokestack of a factory; the smokestack of a steam vessel. (Computer programming) (a) A section of memory in a computer used for temporary storage of data, in which the last datum stored is the first retrieved. (b) A data structure within random-access memory used to simulate a hardware stack, as, a push-down stack. Stack of arms (Mil.), a number of muskets or rifles set up together, with the bayonets crossing one another, forming a sort of conical self-supporting pile. STACK Stack, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Stacked; p. pr. & vb. n. Stacking.] Etym: [Cf. Sw. stacka, Dan. stakke. See Stack, n.] Defn: To lay in a conical or other pile; to make into a large pile; as, to stack hay, cornstalks, or grain; to stack or place wood. To stack arms (Mil.), to set up a number of muskets or rifles together, with the bayonets crossing one another, and forming a sort of conical pile. STACKAGE Stack"age, n. 1. Hay, gray, or the like, in stacks; things stacked. [R.] 2. A tax on things stacked. [R.] Holinshed. STACKET Stack"et, n. Etym: [Cf. F. estacade and E. stockade.] (Mil.) Defn: A stockade. [Scot.] Sir W. Scott. STACK-GUARD Stack"-guard`, n. Defn: A covering or protection, as a canvas, for a stack. STACKING Stack"ing, a. & n. Defn: from Stack. Stacking band, Stacking belt, a band or rope used in binding thatch or straw upon a stack. -- Stacking stage, a stage used in building stacks. STACKSTAND Stack"stand`, n. Defn: A staging for supporting a stack of hay or grain; a rickstand. STACKYARD Stack"yard`, n. Defn: A yard or inclosure for stacks of hay or grain. A. Smith. STACTE Stac"te, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. Defn: One of the sweet spices used by the ancient Jews in the preparation of incense. It was perhaps an oil or other form of myrrh or cinnamon, or a kind of storax. Ex. xxx. 34. STADDLE Stad"dle, n. Etym: [AS. stathol, srathul, a foundation, firm seat; akin to E. stand. *163. See Stand, v. i.] [Formerly written stadle.] 1. Anything which serves for support; a staff; a prop; a crutch; a cane. His weak steps governing And aged limbs on cypress stadle stout. Spenser. 2. The frame of a stack of hay or grain. [Eng.] 3. A row of dried or drying hay, etc. [Eng.] 4. A small tree of any kind, especially a forest tree. Note: In America, trees are called staddles from the time that they are three or four years old till they are six or eight inches in diameter, or more. This is also the sense in which the word is used by Bacon and Tusser. STADDLE Stad"dle, v. t. 1. To leave the staddles, or saplings, of, as a wood when it is cut. [R.] Tusser. 2. To form into staddles, as hay. [Eng.] STADE Stade, n. Etym: [Cf. F. stade.] Defn: A stadium. Donne. STADE Stade, n. Etym: [Cf. G. gestade shore.] Defn: A landing place or wharf. Knight. STADIA HAIRS; STADIA WIRES Sta"di*a hairs or wires . (Surv.) Defn: In a theodolite, etc., horizontal cross wires or hairs equidistant from the central horizontal cross wire. STADIMETER Sta*dim"e*ter, n. Etym: [Stadium + -meter.] Defn: A horizontal graduated bar mounted on a staff, used as a stadium, or telemeter, for measuring distances. STADIUM Sta"di*um, n.; pl. Stadia. Etym: [L., a stadium (in sense 1), from Gr. 1. A Greek measure of length, being the chief one used for itinerary distances, also adopted by the Romans for nautical and astronomical measurements. It was equal to 600 Greek or 625 Roman feet, or 125 Roman paces, or to 606 feet 9 inches English. This was also called the Olympic stadium, as being the exact length of the foot-race course at Olympia. Dr. W. Smith. 2. Hence, a race course; especially, the Olympic course for foot races. 3. A kind of telemeter for measuring the distance of an object of known dimensions, by observing the angle it subtends; especially (Surveying), a graduated rod used to measure the distance of the place where it stands from an instrument having a telescope, by observing the number of the graduations of the rod that are seen between certain parallel wires (stadia wires) in the field of view of the telescope; -- also called stadia, and stadia rod. STADTHOLDER Stadt"hold`er, n. Etym: [D. stadhouder; stad a city, a town + houder a holder.] Defn: Formerly, the chief magistrate of the United Provinces of Holland; also, the governor or lieutenant governor of a province. STADTHOLDERATE; STADTHOLDERSHIP Stadt"hold`er*ate, Stadt"hold`er*ship, n. Defn: The office or position of a stadtholder. STAFETTE Sta*fette", n. Etym: [Cf. G. stafette. See Estafet.] Defn: An estafet. [R.] arlyle. STAFF Staff, n.; pl. Staves ( or Staffs in senses 1-9, Staffs in senses 10, 11. Etym: [AS. stæf a staff; akin to LG. & D. staf, OFries stef, G. stab, Icel. stafr, Sw. staf, Dan. stav, Goth. stabs element, rudiment, Skr. sthapay to cause to stand, to place. See Stand, and cf. Stab, Stave, n.] 1. A long piece of wood; a stick; the long handle of an instrument or weapon; a pole or srick, used for many purposes; as, a surveyor's staff; the staff of a spear or pike. And he put the staves into the rings on the sides of the altar to bear it withal. Ex. xxxviii. 7. With forks and staves the felon to pursue. Dryden. 2. A stick carried in the hand for support or defense by a person walking; hence, a support; that which props or upholds. "Hooked staves." Piers Plowman. The boy was the very staff of my age. Shak. He spoke of it [beer] in "The Earnest Cry," and likewise in the "Scotch Drink," as one of the staffs of life which had been struck from the poor man's hand. Prof. Wilson. 3. A pole, stick, or wand borne as an ensign of authority; a badge of office; as, a constable's staff. Methought this staff, mine office badge in court, Was broke in twain. Shak. All his officers brake their staves; but at their return new staves were delivered unto them. Hayward. 4. A pole upon which a flag is supported and displayed. 5. The round of a ladder. [R.] I ascend at one [ladder] of six hundred and thirty-nine staves. Dr. J. Campbell (E. Brown's Travels). 6. A series of verses so disposed that, when it is concluded, the same order begins again; a stanza; a stave. Cowley found out that no kind of staff is proper for an heroic poem, as being all too lyrical. Dryden. 7. (Mus.) Defn: The five lines and the spaces on which music is written; -- formerly called stave. 8. (Mech.) Defn: An arbor, as of a wheel or a pinion of a watch. 9. (Surg.) Defn: The grooved director for the gorget, or knife, used in cutting for stone in the bladder. 10. Etym: [From Staff, 3, a badge of office.] (Mil.) Defn: An establishment of officers in various departments attached to an army, to a section of an army, or to the commander of an army. The general's staff consists of those officers about his person who are employed in carrying his commands into execution. See État Major. 11. Hence: A body of assistants serving to carry into effect the plans of a superintendant or manager; as, the staff of a newspaper. Jacob's staff (Surv.), a single straight rod or staff, pointed and iron-shod at the bottom, for penetrating the ground, and having a socket joint at the top, used, instead of a tripod, for supporting a compass. -- Staff angle (Arch.), a square rod of wood standing flush with the wall on each of its sides, at the external angles of plastering, to prevent their being damaged. -- The staff of life, bread. "Bread is the staff of life." Swift. -- Staff tree (Bot.), any plant of the genus Celastrus, mostly climbing shrubs of the northern hemisphere. The American species (C. scandens) is commonly called bittersweet. See 2d Bittersweet, 3 (b). -- To set, or To put, up, or down, one's staff, to take up one's residence; to lodge. [Obs.] STAFFIER Staf"fi*er, n. Defn: An attendant bearing a staff. [Obs.] "Staffiers on foot." Hudibras. STAFFISH Staff"ish, a. Defn: Stiff; harsh. [Obs.] Ascham. STAFFMAN Staff"man, n.; pl. Staffmen (. Defn: A workman employed in silk throwing. STAG