[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

of goods, or the exchange of the commodities of different countries. Domestic, or home, trade is the exchange, or buying and selling, of goods within a country. Trade is also by the wholesale, that is, by the package or in large quantities, generally to be sold again, or it is by retail, or in small parcels. The carrying trade is the business of transporting commodities from one country to another, or between places in the same country, by land or water. 5. The business which a person has learned, and which he engages in, for procuring subsistence, or for profit; occupation; especially, mechanical employment as distinguished from the liberal arts, the learned professions, and agriculture; as, we speak of the trade of a smith, of a carpenter, or mason, but not now of the trade of a farmer, or a lawyer, or a physician. Accursed usury was all his trade. Spenser. The homely, slighted, shepherd's trade. Milton. I will instruct thee in my trade. Shak. 6. Instruments of any occupation. [Obs.] The house and household goods, his trade of war. Dryden. 7. A company of men engaged in the same occupation; thus, booksellers and publishers speak of the customs of the trade, and are collectively designated as the trade. 8. pl. Defn: The trade winds. 9. Refuse or rubbish from a mine. [Prov. Eng.] Syn. -- Profession; occupation; office; calling; avocation; employment; commerce; dealing; traffic. Board of trade. See under Board. -- Trade dollar. See under Dollar. -- Trade price, the price at which goods are sold to members of the same trade, or by wholesale dealers to retailers. Trade sale, an auction by and for the trade, especially that of the booksellers. -- Trade wind, a wind in the torrid zone, and often a little beyond at, which blows from the same quarter throughout the year, except when affected by local causes; -- so called because of its usefulness to navigators, and hence to trade. Note: The general direction of the trade winds is from N. E. to S. W. on the north side of the equator, and from S. E. to N. W. on the south side of the equator. They are produced by the joint effect of the rotation of the earth and the movement of the air from the polar toward the equatorial regions, to supply the vacancy caused by heating, rarefaction, and consequent ascent of the air in the latter regions. The trade winds are principally limited to two belts in the tropical regions, one on each side of the equator, and separated by a belt which is characterized by calms or variable weather. TRADE Trade, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Traded; p. pr. & vb. n. Trading.] 1. To barter, or to buy and sell; to be engaged in the exchange, purchase, or sale of goods, wares, merchandise, or anything else; to traffic; to bargain; to carry on commerce as a business. A free port, where nations . . . resorted with their goods and traded. Arbuthnot. 2. To buy and sell or exchange property in a single instance. 3. To have dealings; to be concerned or associated; -- usually followed by with. How did you dare to trade and traffic with Macbeth Shak. TRADE Trade, v. t. Defn: To sell or exchange in commerce; to barter. They traded the persons of men. Ezek. xxvii. 13. To dicker and to swop, to trade rifles and watches. Cooper. TRADE Trade, obs. Defn: imp. of Tread. TRADED Trad"ed, a. Defn: Professional; practiced. [Obs.] Shak. TRADEFUL Trade"ful, a. Defn: Full of trade; busy in traffic; commercial. Spenser. TRADELESS Trade"less, a. Defn: Having no trade or traffic. Young. TRADE-MARK Trade"-mark`, n. Defn: A peculiar distinguishing mark or device affixed by a manufacturer or a merchant to his goods, the exclusive right of using which is recognized by law. TRADE NAME Trade name. 1. (a) The name by which an article is called among traders, etc.; as, tin spirits is a common trade name in the dyeing industry for various solutions of tin salts. (b) An invented or arbitrary adopted name given by a manufacturer or merchant to an article to distinguish it as produced or sold by him. 2. The name or style under which a concern or firm does business. This name becomes a part of the good will of a business; it is not protected by the registration acts, but a qualified common-law protection against its misuse exists, analogous to that existing in the case of trade-marks. TRADER Trad"er, n. 1. One engaged in trade or commerce; one who makes a business of buying and selling or of barter; a merchant; a trafficker; as, a trader to the East Indies; a country trader. 2. A vessel engaged in the coasting or foreign trade. TRADESCANTIA Trad`es*can"ti*a, n. (Bot.) Defn: A genus including spiderwort and Wandering Jew. TRADESFOLK Trades"folk`, n. Defn: People employed in trade; tradesmen. [R.] Swift. TRADESMAN Trades"man, n.; pl. Tradesmen (. 1. One who trades; a shopkeeper. 2. A mechanic or artificer; esp., one whose livelihood depends upon the labor of his hands. [U.S.] Burrill. TRADESPEOPLE Trades"peo`ple, n. Defn: People engaged in trade; shopkeepers. TRADES UNION; TRADE UNION trades" un`ion, or Trade" un`ion. Defn: An organized combination among workmen for the purpose of maintaining their rights, privileges, and interests with respect to wages, hours of labor, customs, etc. TRADES-UNIONIST; TRADE-UNIONIST Trades"-un`ion*ist, or Trade"-un`ion*ist, n. Defn: A member of a trades union, or a supporter of trades unions. TRADESWOMAN Trades"wom`an, n.; pl. Tradeswomen (. Defn: A woman who trades, or is skilled in trade. TRADING Trad"ing, a. 1. Carrying on trade or commerce; engaged in trade; as, a trading company. 2. Frequented by traders. [R.] "They on the trading flood." Milton. 3. Venal; corrupt; jobbing; as, a trading politician. TRADITION Tra*di"tion, n. Etym: [OE. tradicioun, L. traditio, from tradere to give up, transmit. See Treason, Traitor.] 1. The act of delivering into the hands of another; delivery. "A deed takes effect only from the tradition or delivery." Blackstone. 2. The unwritten or oral delivery of information, opinions, doctrines, practices, rites, and customs, from father to son, or from ancestors to posterity; the transmission of any knowledge, opinions, or practice, from forefathers to descendants by oral communication, without written memorials. 3. Hence, that which is transmitted orally from father to son, or from ancestors to posterity; knowledge or belief transmitted without the aid of written memorials; custom or practice long observed. Will you mock at an ancient tradition begun upon an honorable respect Shak. Naught but tradition remains of the beautiful village of Grand-Pré. Longfellow. 4. (Theol.) (a) An unwritten code of law represented to have been given by God to Moses on Sinai. Making the word of God of none effect through your tradition, which ye have delivered. Mark vii. 13. (b) That body of doctrine and discipline, or any article thereof, supposed to have been put forth by Christ or his apostles, and not committed to writing. Stand fast, and hold the traditions which ye have been taught, whether by word or our epistle. 2 Thess. ii. 15. Tradition Sunday (Eccl.), Palm Sunday; -- so called because the creed was then taught to candidates for baptism at Easter. TRADITION Tra*di"tion, v. t. Defn: To transmit by way of tradition; to hand down. [Obs.] The following story is . . . traditioned with very much credit amongst our English Catholics. Fuller. TRADITIONAL Tra*di"tion*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. traditionnel, LL. traditionalis.] 1. Of or pertaining to tradition; derived from tradition; communicated from ancestors to descendants by word only; transmitted from age to age without writing; as, traditional opinions; traditional customs; traditional expositions of the Scriptures. 2. Observant of tradition; attached to old customs; old-fashioned. [R.] Shak. TRADITIONALISM Tra*di"tion*al*ism, n. Defn: A system of faith founded on tradition; esp., the doctrine that all religious faith is to be based solely upon what is delivered from competent authority, exclusive of rational processes. TRADITIONALIST Tra*di"tion*al*ist, n. Defn: An advocate of, or believer in, traditionalism; a traditionist. TRADITIONALLY Tra*di"tion*al*ly, adv. Defn: In a traditional manner. TRADITIONARILY Tra*di"tion*a*ri*ly, adv. Defn: By tradition. TRADITIONARY Tra*di"tion*a*ry, a. Defn: Traditional. The reveries of the Talmud, a collection of Jewish traditionary interpolations. Buckminster. TRADITIONARY Tra*di"tion*a*ry, n.; pl. Traditionaries (. Etym: [Cf. F. traditionnare.] Defn: One, among the Jews, who acknowledges the authority of traditions, and explains the Scriptures by them. TRADITIONER; TRADITIONIST Tra*di"tion*er, Tra*di"tion*ist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. traditionniste.] Defn: One who adheres to tradition. TRADITIVE Trad"i*tive, a. Etym: [L. tradere, traditum, to transmit, give up: cf. F. traditif.] Defn: Transmitted or transmissible from father to son, or from age, by oral communication; traditional. [R.] Jer. Taylor. Suppose we on things traditive divide. Dryden. TRADITOR Trad"i*tor, n. Etym: [L., fr. tradere, traditum. See Traitor.] (Eccl. Hist.) Defn: A deliverer; -- a name of infamy given to Christians who delivered the Scriptures, or the goods of the church, to their persecutors to save their lives. Milner. TRADUCE Tra*duce", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Traduced; p.