[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

long in proportion to its breadth and thickness; as, a bar of gold or of lead; a bar of soap. 3. Anything which obstructs, hinders, or prevents; an obstruction; a barrier. Must I new bars to my own joy create Dryden. 4. A bank of sand, gravel, or other matter, esp. at the mouth of a river or harbor, obstructing navigation. 5. Any railing that divides a room, or office, or hall of assembly, in order to reserve a space for those having special privileges; as, the bar of the House of Commons. 6. (Law) (a) The railing that incloses the place which counsel occupy in courts of justice. Hence, the phrase at the bar of the court signifies in open court. (b) The place in court where prisoners are stationed for arraignment, trial, or sentence. (c) The whole body of lawyers licensed in a court or district; the legal profession. (d) A special plea constituting a sufficient answer to plaintiff's action. 7. Any tribunal; as, the bar of public opinion; the bar of God. 8. A barrier or counter, over which liquors and food are passed to customers; hence, the portion of the room behind the counter where liquors for sale are kept. 9. (Her.) Defn: An ordinary, like a fess but narrower, occupying only one fifth part of the field. 10. A broad shaft, or band, or stripe; as, a bar of light; a bar of color. 11. (Mus.) Defn: A vertical line across the staff. Bars divide the staff into spaces which represent measures, and are themselves called measures. Note: A double bar marks the end of a strain or main division of a movement, or of a whole piece of music; in psalmody, it marks the end of a line of poetry. The term bar is very often loosely used for measure, i.e., for such length of music, or of silence, as is included between one bar and the next; as, a passage of eight bars; two bars' rest. 12. (Far.) pl. (a) The space between the tusks and grinders in the upper jaw of a horse, in which the bit is placed. (b) The part of the crust of a horse's hoof which is bent inwards towards the frog at the heel on each side, and extends into the center of the sole. 13. (Mining) (a) A drilling or tamping rod. (b) A vein or dike crossing a lode. 14. (Arch.) (a) A gatehouse of a castle or fortified town. (b) A slender strip of wood which divides and supports the glass of a window; a sash bar. Bar shoe (Far.), a kind of horseshoe having a bar across the usual opening at the heel, to protect a tender frog from injury. -- Bar shot, a double headed shot, consisting of a bar, with a ball or half ball at each end; -- formerly used for destroying the masts or rigging in naval combat. -- Bar sinister (Her.), a term popularly but erroneously used for baton, a mark of illegitimacy. See Baton. -- Bar tracery (Arch.), ornamental stonework resembling bars of iron twisted into the forms required. -- Blank bar (Law). See Blank. -- Case at bar (Law), a case presently before the court; a case under argument. -- In bar of, as a sufficient reason against; to prevent. -- Matter in bar, or Defence in bar, a plea which is a final defense in an action. -- Plea in bar, a plea which goes to bar or defeat the plaintiff's action absolutely and entirely. -- Trial at bar (Eng. Law), a trial before all the judges of one the superior courts of Westminster, or before a quorum representing the full court. BAR Bar, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Barred (p. pr. & vb. n. Barring.] Etym: [ F. barrer. See Bar, n.] 1. To fasten with a bar; as, to bar a door or gate. 2. To restrict or confine, as if by a bar; to hinder; to obstruct; to prevent; to prohibit; as, to bar the entrance of evil; distance bars our intercourse; the statute bars my right; the right is barred by time; a release bars the plaintiff's recovery; -- sometimes with up. He barely looked the idea in the face, and hastened to bar it in its dungeon. Hawthorne. 3. To except; to exclude by exception. Nay, but I bar to-night: you shall not gauge me By what we do to- night. Shak. 4. To cross with one or more stripes or lines. For the sake of distinguishing the feet more clearly, I have barred them singly. Burney. BARACA Ba*ra"ca, n. Defn: An international, interdenominational organization of Bible classes of young men; -- so named in allusion to the Hebrew word Berachah (Meaning blessing) occurring in 2 Chron. xx. 26 and 1 Chron. xii. BARAD Bar"ad, n. [Gr. weight.] (Physics) Defn: The pressure of one dyne per square centimeter; -- used as a unit of pressure. BARAESTHESIOMETER; BARESTHESIOMETER Bar`æs*the`si*om"e*ter, Bar`es*the`si*om"e*ter, n. [Gr. weight + æsthesiometer.] (Physiol.) Defn: An instrument for determining the delicacy of the sense of pressure. -- Bar`æs*the`si*o*met"ric, Bar`es*the`si*o*met"ric (#), a. BARATHEA Bar`a*the"a, n. Defn: A soft fabric with a kind of basket weave and a diapered pattern. BARB Barb, n. Etym: [F. barbe, fr. L. barba beard. See Beard, n.] 1. Beard, or that which resembles it, or grows in the place of it. The barbel, so called by reason of his barbs, or wattles in his mouth. Walton. 2. A muffler, worn by nuns and mourners. [Obs.] 3. pl. Defn: Paps, or little projections, of the mucous membrane, which mark the opening of the submaxillary glands under the tongue in horses and cattle. The name is mostly applied when the barbs are inflamed and swollen. [Written also barbel and barble.] 4. The point that stands backward in an arrow, fishhook, etc., to prevent it from being easily extracted. Hence: Anything which stands out with a sharp point obliquely or crosswise to something else. "Having two barbs or points." Ascham. 5. A bit for a horse. [Obs.] Spenser. 6. (Zoöl.) Defn: One of the side branches of a feather, which collectively constitute the vane. See Feather. 7. (Zoöl.) Defn: A southern name for the kingfishes of the eastern and southeastern coasts of the United States; -- also improperly called whiting. 8. (Bot.) Defn: A hair or bristle ending in a double hook. BARB Barb, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Barbed (p. pr. & vb. n. Barbing.] 1. To shave or dress the beard of. [Obs.] 2. To clip; to mow. [Obs.] Marston. 3. To furnish with barbs, or with that which will hold or hurt like barbs, as an arrow, fishhook, spear, etc. But rattling storm of arrows barbed with fire. Milton. BARB Barb, n. Etym: [F. barbe, fr. Barbarie.] 1. The Barbary horse, a superior breed introduces from Barbary into Spain by the Moors. 2. (Zoöl.) Defn: A blackish or dun variety of the pigeon, originally brought from Barbary. BARB Barb, n. Etym: [Corrupted fr. bard.] Defn: Armor for a horse. Same as 2d Bard, n., 1. BARBACAN Bar"ba*can, n. Defn: See Barbican. BARBACANAGE Bar"ba*can*age, n. Defn: See Barbicanage. BARBADIAN Bar*ba"di*an, a. Defn: Of or pertaining to Barbados. -- n. Defn: A native of Barbados. BARBADOS; BARBADOES Bar*ba"dos or Bar*ba"does, n. Defn: A West Indian island, giving its name to a disease, to a cherry, etc. Barbados cherry (Bot.), a genus of trees of the West Indies (Malpighia) with an agreeably acid fruit resembling a cherry. -- Barbados leg (Med.), a species of elephantiasis incident to hot climates. -- Barbados nuts, the seeds of the Jatropha curcas, a plant growing in South America and elsewhere. The seeds and their acrid oil are used in medicine as a purgative. See Physic nut. BARBARA Bar"ba*ra, n. Etym: [Coined by logicians.] (Logic) Defn: The first word in certain mnemonic lines which represent the various forms of the syllogism. It indicates a syllogism whose three propositions are universal affirmatives. Whately. BARBARESQUE Bar`ba*resque", a. Defn: Barbaric in form or style; as, barbaresque architecture. De Quincey. BARBARIAN Bar*ba"ri*an, n. Etym: [See Barbarous.] 1. A foreigner. [Historical] Therefore if I know not the meaning of the voice, I shall be unto him that speaketh a barbarian, and he that speaketh shall be a barbarian unto me. 2. A man in a rule, savage, or uncivilized state. 3. A person destitute of culture. M. Arnold. 4. A cruel, savage, brutal man; one destitute of pity or humanity. "Thou fell barbarian." Philips. BARBARIAN Bar*ba"ri*an, a. Defn: Of, or pertaining to, or resembling, barbarians; rude; uncivilized; barbarous; as, barbarian governments or nations. BARBARIC Bar*ba"ric, a. Etym: [L. barbaricus foreign, barbaric, Gr. .] 1. Of, or from, barbarian nations; foreign; -- often with reference to barbarous nations of east. "Barbaric pearl and gold." Milton. 2. Of or pertaining to, or resembling, an uncivilized person or people; barbarous; barbarian; destitute of refinement. "Wild, barbaric music." Sir W. Scott. BARBARISM Bar"ba*rism, n. Etym: [L. barbarismus, Gr.; cf. F.