[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

stately or proud fashion. And like a peacock sweep along his tail. Shak. 5. To strike with a long stroke. Wake into voice each silent string, And sweep the sounding lyre. Pope. 6. (Naut.) Defn: To draw or drag something over; as, to sweep the bottom of a river with a net. 7. To pass over, or traverse, with the eye or with an instrument of observation; as, to sweep the heavens with a telescope. To sweep, or sweep up, a mold (Founding), to form the sand into a mold by a templet, instead of compressing it around the pattern. SWEEP Sweep, v. i. 1. To clean rooms, yards, etc., or to clear away dust, dirt, litter, etc., with a broom, brush, or the like. 2. To brush swiftly over the surface of anything; to pass with switness and force, as if brushing the surface of anything; to move in a stately manner; as, the wind sweeps across the plain; a woman sweeps through a drawing-room. 3. To pass over anything comprehensively; to range through with rapidity; as, his eye sweeps through space. SWEEP Sweep, n. 1. The act of sweeping. 2. The compass or range of a stroke; as, a long sweep. 3. The compass of any turning body or of any motion; as, the sweep of a door; the sweep of the eye. 4. The compass of anything flowing or brushing; as, the flood carried away everything within its sweep. 5. Violent and general destruction; as, the sweep of an epidemic disease. 6. Direction and extent of any motion not rectlinear; as, the sweep of a compass. 7. Direction or departure of a curve, a road, an arch, or the like, away from a rectlinear line. The road which makes a small sweep. Sir W. Scott. 8. One who sweeps; a sweeper; specifically, a chimney sweeper. 9. (Founding) Defn: A movable templet for making molds, in loam molding. 10. (Naut.) (a) The mold of a ship when she begins to curve in at the rungheads; any part of a ship shaped in a segment of a circle. (b) A large oar used in small vessels, partly to propel them and partly to steer them. 11. (Refining) Defn: The almond furnace. [Obs.] 12. A long pole, or piece of timber, moved on a horizontal fulcrum fixed to a tall post and used to raise and lower a bucket in a well for drawing water. [Variously written swape, sweep, swepe, and swipe.] 13. (Card Playing) Defn: In the game of casino, a pairing or combining of all the cards on the board, and so removing them all; in whist, the winning of all the tricks (thirteen) in a hand; a slam. 14. pl. Defn: The sweeping of workshops where precious metals are worked, containing filings, etc. Sweep net, a net for drawing over a large compass. -- Sweep of the tiller (Naut.), a circular frame on which the tiller traverses. SWEEPAGE Sweep"age, n. Defn: The crop of hay got in a meadow. [Prov. Eng.] SWEEPER Sweep"er, n. Defn: One who, or that which, sweeps, or cleans by sweeping; a sweep; as, a carpet sweeper. It is oxygen which is the great sweeper of the economy. Huxley. SWEEPING Sweep"ing, a. Defn: Cleaning off surfaces, or cleaning away dust, dirt, or litter, as a broom does; moving with swiftness and force; carrying everything before it; including in its scope many persons or things; as, a sweeping flood; a sweeping majority; a sweeping accusation. -- Sweep"ing*ly, adv. -Sweep"ing*ness, n. SWEEPINGS Sweep"ings, n. pl. Defn: Things collected by sweeping; rubbish; as, the sweepings of a street. SWEEP-SAW Sweep"-saw`, n. Defn: A bow-saw. SWEEPSTAKE Sweep"stake`, n. 1. A winning of all the stakes or prizes. Heylin. 2. A complete removal or carrying away; a clean sweep. [Obs.] Bp. Hacket. SWEEPSTAKES Sweep"stakes`, n. 1. A winning of all the stakes or prizes; a sweepstake. 2. sing. or pl. Defn: The whole money or other things staked at a horse race, a given sum being put up for each horse, all of which goes to the winner, or is divided among several, as may be previously agreed. 3. A race for all the sums staked or prizes offered. SWEEPWASHER Sweep"wash`er, n. Defn: One who extracts the residuum of precious metals from the sweepings, potsherds, etc., of refineries of gold and silver, or places where these metals are used. SWEEPY Sweep"y, a. Defn: Moving with a sweeping motion. The branches bend before their sweepy away. Dryden. SWEET Sweet, a. [Compar. Sweeter; superl. Sweetest.] Etym: [OE. swete, swote, sote, AS. swete; akin to OFries. swete, OS. swoti, D. zoet, G. süss, OHG. suozi, Icel. sætr, soetr, Sw. söt, Dan. söd, Goth. suts, L. suavis, for suadvis, Gr. svadu sweet, svad, svad, to sweeten. *175. Cf. Assuage, Suave, Suasion.] 1. Having an agreeable taste or flavor such as that of sugar; saccharine; -- opposed to sour and bitter; as, a sweet beverage; sweet fruits; sweet oranges. 2. Pleasing to the smell; fragrant; redolent; balmy; as, a sweet rose; sweet odor; sweet incense. The breath of these flowers is sweet to me. Longfellow. 3. Pleasing to the ear; soft; melodious; harmonious; as, the sweet notes of a flute or an organ; sweet music; a sweet voice; a sweet singer. To make his English sweet upon his tongue. Chaucer. A voice sweet, tremulous, but powerful. Hawthorne. 4. Pleasing to the eye; beautiful; mild and attractive; fair; as, a sweet face; a sweet color or complexion. Sweet interchange Of hill and valley, rivers, woods, and plains. Milton. 5. Fresh; not salt or brackish; as, sweet water. Bacon. 6. Not changed from a sound or wholesome state. Specifically: (a) Not sour; as, sweet milk or bread. (b) Not state; not putrescent or putrid; not rancid; as, sweet butter; sweet meat or fish. 7. Plaesing to the mind; mild; gentle; calm; amiable; winning; presuasive; as, sweet manners. Canst thou bind the sweet influence of Pleiades Job xxxviii. 31. Mildness and sweet reasonableness is the one established rule of Christian working. M. Arnold. Note: Sweet is often used in the formation of self-explaining compounds; as, sweet-blossomed, sweet-featured, sweet-smelling, sweet-tempered, sweet-toned, etc. Sweet alyssum. (Bot.) See Alyssum. -- Sweet apple. (Bot.) (a) Any apple of sweet flavor. (b) See Sweet- top. -- Sweet bay. (Bot.) (a) The laurel (laurus nobilis). (b) Swamp sassafras. -- Sweet calabash (Bot.), a plant of the genus Passiflora (P. maliformis) growing in the West Indies, and producing a roundish, edible fruit, the size of an apple. -- Sweet cicely. (Bot.) (a) Either of the North American plants of the umbelliferous genus Osmorrhiza having aromatic roots and seeds, and white flowers. Gray. (b) A plant of the genus Myrrhis (M. odorata) growing in England. -- Sweet calamus, or Sweet cane. (Bot.) Same as Sweet flag, below. -- Sweet Cistus (Bot.), an evergreen shrub (Cistus Ladanum) from which the gum ladanum is obtained. -- Sweet clover. (Bot.) See Melilot. -- Sweet coltsfoot (Bot.), a kind of butterbur (Petasites sagittata) found in Western North America. -- Sweet corn (Bot.), a variety of the maize of a sweet taste. See the Note under Corn. -- Sweet fern (Bot.), a small North American shrub (Comptonia, or Myrica, asplenifolia) having sweet-scented or aromatic leaves resembling fern leaves. -- Sweet flag (Bot.), an endogenous plant (Acorus Calamus) having long flaglike leaves and a rootstock of a pungent aromatic taste. It is found in wet places in Europe and America. See Calamus, 2. -- Sweet gale (Bot.), a shrub (Myrica Gale) having bitter fragrant leaves; -- also called sweet willow, and Dutch myrtle. See 5th Gale. Sweet grass (Bot.), holy, or Seneca, grass. -- Sweet gum (Bot.), an American tree (Liquidambar styraciflua). See Liquidambar. -- Sweet herbs, fragrant herbs cultivated for culinary purposes. -- Sweet John (Bot.), a variety of the sweet William. -- Sweet leaf (Bot.), horse sugar. See under Horse. -- Sweet marjoram. (Bot.) See Marjoram. -- Sweet marten (Zoöl.), the pine marten. -- Sweet maudlin (Bot.), a composite plant (Achillea Ageratum) allied to milfoil. -- Sweet oil, olive oil. -- Sweet pea. (Bot.) See under Pea. -- Sweet potato. (Bot.) See under Potato. -- Sweet rush (Bot.), sweet flag. -- Sweet spirits of niter (Med. Chem.) See Spirit of nitrous ether, under Spirit. -- Sweet sultan (Bot.), an annual composite plant (Centaurea moschata), also, the yellow-flowered (C. odorata); -- called also sultan flower. -- Sweet tooth, an especial fondness for sweet things or for sweetmeats. [Colloq.] -- Sweet William. (a) (Bot.) A species of pink (Dianthus barbatus) of many varieties. (b) (Zoöl.) The willow warbler. (c) (Zoöl.) The European goldfinch; -- called also sweet Billy. [Prov. Eng.] -- Sweet willow (Bot.), sweet gale. -- Sweet wine. See Dry wine, under Dry. -- To be sweet on, to have a particular fondness for, or special interest in, as a young man for a young woman. [Colloq.] Thackeray. Syn. -- Sugary; saccharine; dulcet; luscious. SWEET Sweet, n. 1. That which is sweet to the taste; -- used chiefly in