[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

of a boat where there are no rowers; as, fore sheets; stern sheets. Note: Sheet is often used adjectively, or in combination, to denote that the substance to the name of which it is prefixed is in the form of sheets, or thin plates or leaves; as, sheet brass, or sheet-brass; sheet glass, or sheet-glass; sheet gold, or sheet-gold; sheet iron, or sheet-iron, etc. A sheet in the wind, half drunk. [Sailors' Slang] -- Both sheets in the wind, very drunk. [Sailors' Slang] -- In sheets, lying flat or expanded; not folded, or folded but not bound; -- said especially of printed sheets. -- Sheet bend (Naut.), a bend or hitch used for temporarily fastening a rope to the bight of another rope or to an eye. -- Sheet lightning, Sheet piling, etc. See under Lightning, Piling, etc. SHEET Sheet, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Sheeted; p. pr. & vb. n. Sheeting.] 1. To furnish with a sheet or sheets; to wrap in, or cover with, a sheet, or as with a sheet. "The sheeted dead." "When snow the pasture sheets." Shak. 2. To expand, as a sheet. The star shot flew from the welkin blue, As it fell from the sheeted sky. J. R. Drake. To sheet home (Naut.), to haul upon a sheet until the sail is as flat, and the clew as near the wind, as possible. SHEET ANCHOR Sheet" an"chor. Etym: [OE. scheten to shoot, AS. sceótan; cf. OE. shoot anchor. See Shoot, v. t.] 1. (Naut.) Defn: A large anchor stowed on shores outside the waist of a vessel; -- called also waist anchor. See the Note under Anchor. 2. Anything regarded as a sure support or dependence in danger; the best hope or refuge. SHEET CABLE Sheet" ca"ble. (Naut.) Defn: The cable belonging to the sheet anchor. SHEET CHAIN Sheet" chain". (Naut.) Defn: A chain sheet cable. SHEETFUL Sheet"ful, n.; pl. Sheetfuls (. Defn: Enough to fill a sheet; as much as a sheet can hold. SHEETING Sheet"ing, n. 1. Cotton or linen cloth suitable for bed sheets. It is sometimes made of double width. 2. (Hydraul. Engin.) Defn: A lining of planks or boards (rarely of metal) for protecting an embankment. 3. The act or process of forming into sheets, or flat pieces; also, material made into sheets. SHEIK Sheik, n. Etym: [Ar. sheikh, shaykh, a venerable old man, a chief, fr. shakha to grow or be old.] Defn: The head of an Arab family, or of a clan or a tribe; also, the chief magistrate of an Arab village. The name is also applied to Mohammedan ecclesiastics of a high grade. [Written also scheik, shaik, sheikh.] SHEIL; SHEILING Sheil, Sheil"ing, n. Defn: See Sheeling. SHEKEL Shek"el, n. Etym: [Heb. shegel, fr. shagal to weigh.] 1. An ancient weight and coin used by the Jews and by other nations of the same stock. Note: A common estimate makes the shekel equal in weight to about 130 grains for gold, 224 grains for silver, and 450 grains for copper, and the approximate values of the coins are (gold) $5.00, (silver) 60 cents, and (copper half shekel), one and one half cents. 2. pl. Defn: A jocose term for money. SHEKINAH She*ki"nah, n. Etym: [Heb Talmud shekinah, fr. shakan to inhabit.] Defn: The visible majesty of the Divine Presence, especially when resting or dwelling between the cherubim on the mercy seat, in the Tabernacle, or in the Temple of Solomon; -- a term used in the Targums and by the later Jews, and adopted by Christians. [Written also Shechinah.] Dr. W. Smith (Bib. Dict.) SHELD Sheld, a. Etym: [OE., fr. sheld a shield, probably in allusion to the ornamentation of shields. See Shield.] Defn: Variegated; spotted; speckled; piebald. [Prov. Eng.] SHELDAFLE; SHELDAPLE Sheld"a*fle, Sheld"a*ple, n. Etym: [Perhaps for sheld dapple. Cf. Sheldrake.] (Zoöl.) Defn: A chaffinch. [Written also sheldapple, and shellapple.] SHELDFOWL Sheld"fowl`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: The common sheldrake. [Prov. Eng.] SHELDRAKE Shel"drake`, n. Etym: [Sheld + drake.] 1. (Zoöl.) Defn: Any one of several species of large Old World ducks of the genus Tadorna and allied genera, especially the European and Asiatic species. (T. cornuta, or tadorna), which somewhat resembles a goose in form and habit, but breeds in burrows. Note: It has the head and neck greenish black, the breast, sides, and forward part of the back brown, the shoulders and middle of belly black, the speculum green, and the bill and frontal bright red. Called also shelduck, shellduck, sheldfowl, skeelduck, bergander, burrow duck, and links goose. Note: The Australian sheldrake (Tadorna radja) has the head, neck, breast, flanks, and wing coverts white, the upper part of the back and a band on the breast deep chestnut, and the back and tail black. The chestnut sheldrake of Australia (Casarca tadornoides) is varied with black and chestnut, and has a dark green head and neck. The ruddy sheldrake, or Braminy duck (C. rutila), and the white-winged sheldrake (C. leucoptera), are related Asiatic species. 2. Any one of the American mergansers. Note: The name is also loosely applied to other ducks, as the canvasback, and the shoveler. SHELDUCK Shel"duck`, n. Etym: [Sheld variegated + duck.] (Zoöl.) Defn: The sheldrake. [Written also shellduck.] SHELF Shelf, n.; pl. Shelves. Etym: [OE. shelfe, schelfe, AS. scylfe; akin to G. schelfe, Icel. skjalf. In senses 2 & 3, perhaps a different word (cf. Shelve, v. i.).] 1. (Arch.) Defn: A flat tablet or ledge of any material set horizontally at a distance from the floor, to hold objects of use or ornament. 2. A sand bank in the sea, or a rock, or ledge of rocks, rendering the water shallow, and dangerous to ships. On the tawny sands and shelves. Milton. On the secret shelves with fury cast. Dryden. 3. (Mining) Defn: A stratum lying in a very even manner; a flat, projecting layer of rock. 4. (Naut.) Defn: A piece of timber running the whole length of a vessel inside the timberheads. D. Kemp. To lay on the shelf, to lay aside as unnecessary or useless; to dismiss; to discard. SHELFY Shelf"y, a. 1. Abounding in shelves; full of dangerous shallows. "A shelfy coast." Dryden. 2. Full of strata of rock. [Obs.] The tillable fields are in some places . . . so shelfy that the corn hath much ado to fasten its root. Carew. SHELL Shell, n. Etym: [OE. shelle, schelle, AS. scell, scyll; akin to D. shel, Icel. skel, Goth. skalja a tile, and E. skill. Cf. Scale of fishes, Shale, Skill.] 1. A hard outside covering, as of a fruit or an animal. Specifically: (a) The covering, or outside part, of a nut; as, a hazelnut shell. (b) A pod. (c) The hard covering of an egg. Think him as a serpent's egg, . . . And kill him in the shell. Shak. (d) (Zoöl.) Defn: The hard calcareous or chitinous external covering of mollusks, crustaceans, and some other invertebrates. In some mollusks, as the cuttlefishes, it is internal, or concealed by the mantle. Also, the hard covering of some vertebrates, as the armadillo, the tortoise, and the like. (e) (Zoöl.) Hence, by extension, any mollusks having such a covering. 2. (Mil.) Defn: A hollow projectile, of various shapes, adapted for a mortar or a cannon, and containing an explosive substance, ignited with a fuse or by percussion, by means of which the projectile is burst and its fragments scattered. See Bomb. 3. The case which holds the powder, or charge of powder and shot, used with breechloading small arms. 4. Any slight hollow structure; a framework, or exterior structure, regarded as not complete or filled in; as, the shell of a house. 5. A coarse kind of coffin; also, a thin interior coffin inclosed in a more substantial one. Knight. 6. An instrument of music, as a lyre, -- the first lyre having been made, it is said, by drawing strings over a tortoise shell. When Jubal struck the chorded shell. Dryden. 7. An engraved copper roller used in print works. 8. pl. Defn: The husks of cacao seeds, a decoction of which is often used as a substitute for chocolate, cocoa, etc. 9. (Naut.) Defn: The outer frame or case of a block within which the sheaves revolve. 10. A light boat the frame of which is covered with thin wood or with paper; as, a racing shell. Message shell, a bombshell inside of which papers may be put, in order to convey messages. -- Shell bit, a tool shaped like a gouge, used with a brace in boring wood. See Bit, n., 3. -- Shell button. (a) A button made of shell. (b) A hollow button made of two pieces, as of metal, one for the front and the other for the back, -- often covered with cloth, silk, etc. -- Shell cameo, a cameo cut in shell instead of stone. -- Shell flower. (Bot.) Same as Turtlehead. -- Shell gland. (Zoöl.) (a) A glandular organ in which the rudimentary shell