[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

[Cf. F. cantonnement.] Defn: A town or village, or part of a town or village, assigned to a body of troops for quarters; temporary shelter or place of rest for an army; quarters. Note: When troops are sheltered in huts or quartered in the houses of the people during any suspension of hostilities, they are said to be in cantonment, or to be cantoned. In India, permanent military stations, or military towns, are termed cantonments. CANTOON Can*toon", n. Defn: A cotton stuff showing a fine cord on one side and a satiny surface on the other. CANTOR Can"tor, n. Etym: [L., a singer, fr. caner to sing.] Defn: A singer; esp. the leader of a church choir; a precentor. The cantor of the church intones the Te Deum. Milman. CANTORAL Can"tor*al, a. Defn: Of or belonging to a cantor. Cantoral staff, the official staff or baton of a cantor or precentor, with which time is marked for the singers. CANTORIS Can*to"ris, a. Etym: [L., lit., of the cantor, gen. of cantor.] Defn: Of or pertaining to a cantor; as, the cantoris side of a choir; a cantoris stall. Shipley. CANTRAP; CANTRIP Can"trap, Can"trip, n. Etym: [Cf. Icel. gandar, ODan. & OSw. gan, witchcraft, and E. trap a snare, tramp.] Defn: A charm; an incantation; a shell; a trick; adroit mischief. [Written also cantraip.] [Scot.] CANTRED; CANTREF Can"tred, Can"tref, n. Etym: [W. cantref; cant hundred + tref dwelling place, village.] Defn: A district comprising a hundred villages, as in Wales. [Written also kantry.] CANTY Can"ty, a. Defn: Cheerful; sprightly; lively; merry. "The canty dame." Wordsworth [Scot. & Prov. Eng.] Contented with little, and canty with mair. Burns. CANUCK Ca*nuck", n. 1. A Canadian. [Slang] 2. A small or medium-sized hardy horse, common in Canada. [Colloq.] CANULA; CANULAR; CANULATED Can"u*la, n., Can"u*lar, a., Can"u*la`ted, a. Defn: See Cannula, Cannular, and Cannulated. CANVAS Can"vas, n. Etym: [OE. canvas, canevas, F. canevas, LL. canabacius hempen cloth, canvas, L. cannabis hemp, fr. G. Hemp.] 1. A strong cloth made of hemp, flax, or cotton; -- used for tents, sails, etc. By glimmering lanes and walls of canvas led. Tennyson. 2. (a) A coarse cloth so woven as to form regular meshes for working with the needle, as in tapestry, or worsted work. (b) A piece of strong cloth of which the surface has been prepared to receive painting, commonly painting in oil. History . . . does not bring out clearly upon the canvas the details which were familiar. J. H. Newman. 3. Something for which canvas is used: (a) A sail, or a collection of sails. (b) A tent, or a collection of tents. (c) A painting, or a picture on canvas. To suit his canvas to the roughness of the see. Goldsmith. Light, rich as that which glows on the canvas of Claude. Macaulay. 4. A rough draft or model of a song, air, or other literary or musical composition; esp. one to show a poet the measure of the verses he is to make. Grabb. CANVAS Can"vas, a. Defn: Made of, pertaining to, or resembling, canvas or coarse cloth; as, a canvas tent. CANVASBACK Can"vas*back`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: A Species of duck (Aythya vallisneria), esteemed for the delicacy of its flesh. It visits the United States in autumn; particularly Chesapeake Bay and adjoining waters; -- so named from the markings of the plumage on its back. CANVASS Can"vass, v. t. [imp. & p. p. canvassed; p. pr. & vb. n. Canvassing.] Etym: [OF. Canabasser to examine curiously, to search or sift out; properly, to sift through canvas. See Canvas, n.] 1. To sift; to strain; to examine thoroughly; to scrutinize; as, to canvass the votes cast at an election; to canvass a district with reference to its probable vote. I have made careful search on all hands, and canvassed the matter with all possible diligence. Woodward. 2. To examine by discussion; to debate. An opinion that we are likely soon to canvass. Sir W. Hamilton. 3. To go trough, with personal solicitation or public addresses; as, to canvass a district for votes; to canvass a city for subscriptions. CANVASS Can"vass, v. i. Defn: To search thoroughly; to engage in solicitation by traversing a district; as, to canvass for subscriptions or for votes; to canvass for a book, a publisher, or in behalf of a charity; -- commonly followed by for. CANVASS Can"vass, n. 1. Close inspection; careful review for verification; as, a canvass of votes. Bacon. 2. Examination in the way of discussion or debate. 3. Search; exploration; solicitation; systematic effort to obtain votes, subscribers, etc. No previous canvass was made for me. Burke. CANVASSER Can"vass*er, n. Defn: One who canvasses. CANY Can"y, a. Etym: [From Cane.] Defn: Of or pertaining to cane or canes; abounding with canes. Milton. CANYON Can"yon, n. Defn: The English form of the Spanish word Cañon. CANZONE Can*zo"ne, n. Etym: [It., a song, fr. L. cantio, fr. canere to sing. Cf. Chanson, Chant.] (Mus.) (a) A song or air for one or more voices, of Provençal origin, resembling, though not strictly, the madrigal. (b) An instrumental piece in the madrigal style. CANZONET Can`zo*net", n. Etym: [It. canzonetta, dim. of canzone.] (Mus.) Defn: A short song, in one or more parts. CAONCITO Cañ`on*ci"to, n. [Amer. Sp. dim. See Cañon.] [Southwestern U. S.] 1. A small cañon. 2. A narrow passage or lane through chaparral or a forest. CAOUTCHIN Caout"chin, n. (Chem.) Defn: An inflammable, volatile, oily, liquid hydrocarbon, obtained by the destructive distillation of caoutchouc. CAOUTCHOUC Caout"chouc, n. Etym: [F. caoutchouc, from the South American name.] Defn: A tenacious, elastic, gummy substance obtained from the milky sap of several plants of tropical South America (esp. the euphorbiaceous tree Siphonia elastica or Hevea caoutchouc), Asia, and Africa. Being impermeable to liquids and gases, and not readly affected by exposure to air, acids, and alkalies, it is used, especially when vulcanized, for many purposes in the arts and in manufactures. Also called India rubber (because it was first brought from India, and was formerly used chiefly for erasing pencil marks) and gum elastic. See Vulcanization. Mineral caoutchouc. See under Mineral. CAOUTCHOUCIN Caout"chou*cin, n. Defn: See Caoutchin. CAP Cap, n. Etym: [OE. cappe, AS. cæppe, cap, cape, hood, fr. LL, cappa, capa; perhaps of Iberian origin, as Isidorus of Seville mentions it first: "Capa, quia quasi totum capiat hominem; it. capitis ornamentum." See 3d Cape, and cf. 1st Cope.] 1. A covering for the head; esp. (a) One usually with a visor but without a brim, for men and boys; (b) One of lace, muslin, etc., for women, or infants; (c) One used as the mark or ensign of some rank, office, or dignity, as that of a cardinal. 2. The top, or uppermost part; the chief. Thou art the cap of all the fools alive. Shak. 3. A respectful uncovering of the head. He that will give a cap and make a leg in thanks. Fuller. 4. (Zoöl.) Defn: The whole top of the head of a bird from the base of the bill to the nape of the neck. 5. Anything resembling a cap in form, position, or use; as: (a) (Arch.) The uppermost of any assemblage of parts; as, the cap of column, door, etc.; a capital, coping, cornice, lintel, or plate. (b) Something covering the top or end of a thing for protection or ornament. (c) (Naut.) A collar of iron or wood used in joining spars, as the mast and the topmast, the bowsprit and the jib boom; also, a covering of tarred canvas at the end of a rope. (d) A percussion cap. See under Percussion. (e) (Mech.) The removable cover of a journal box. (f) (Geom.) A portion of a spherical or other convex surface. 6. A large size of writing paper; as, flat cap; foolscap; legal cap. Cap of a cannon, a piece of lead laid over the vent to keep the priming dry; -- now called an apron. -- Cap in hand, obsequiously; submissively. -- Cap of liberty. See Liberty cap, under Liberty. -- Cap of maintenance, a cap of state carried before the kings of England at the coronation. It is also carried before the mayors of some cities. -- Cap money, money collected in a cap for the huntsman at the death of the fox. -- Cap paper. (a) A kind of writing paper including flat cap, foolsap, and legal cap. (b) A coarse wrapping paper used for making caps to hold commodities. Cap rock (Mining), The layer of rock next overlying ore, generally of barren vein material. -- Flat cap, cap See Foolscap. -- Forage cap, the cloth undress head covering of an officer of soldier. -- Legal cap, a kind of folio writing paper, made for the use of lawyers, in long narrow sheets which have the fold at the top or "narrow edge." -- To set one's cap, to make a fool of one. (Obs.) Chaucer. -- To set one's cap for, to try to win the