[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

winter. The more northern prairie hare (L. campestris) has the upper side of the tail white, and in winter its fur becomes nearly white. -- Jack rafter (Arch.), in England, one of the shorter rafters used in constructing a hip or valley roof; in the United States, any secondary roof timber, as the common rafters resting on purlins in a trussed roof; also, one of the pieces simulating extended rafters, used under the eaves in some styles of building. -- Jack salmon (Zoöl.), the wall-eyed pike, or glasseye. -- Jack sauce, an impudent fellow. [Colloq. & Obs.] -- Jack shaft (Mach.), the first intermediate shaft, in a factory or mill, which receives power, through belts or gearing, from a prime mover, and transmits it, by the same means, to other intermediate shafts or to a line shaft. -- Jack sinker (Knitting Mach.), a thin iron plate operated by the jack to depress the loop of thread between two needles. -- Jack snipe. (Zoöl.) See in the Vocabulary. -- Jack staff (Naut.), a staff fixed on the bowsprit cap, upon which the jack is hoisted. -- Jack timber (Arch.), any timber, as a rafter, rib, or studding, which, being intercepted, is shorter than the others. -- Jack towel, a towel hung on a roller for common use. -- Jack truss (Arch.), in a hip roof, a minor truss used where the roof has not its full section. -- Jack tree. (Bot.) See 1st Jack, n. -- Jack yard (Naut.), a short spar to extend a topsail beyond the gaff. Blue jack, blue vitriol; sulphate of copper. -- Hydraulic jack, a jack used for lifting, pulling, or forcing, consisting of a compact portable hydrostatic press, with its pump and a reservoir containing a supply of liquid, as oil. -- Jack-at-a-pinch. (a) One called upon to take the place of another in an emergency. (b) An itinerant parson who conducts an occasional service for a fee. -- Jack-at-all-trades, one who can turn his hand to any kind of work. -- Jack-by-the-hedge (Bot.), a plant of the genus Erysimum (E. alliaria, or Alliaria officinalis), which grows under hedges. It bears a white flower and has a taste not unlike garlic. Called also, in England, sauce-alone. Eng. Cyc. -- Jack-in-a-box. (a) (Bot.) A tropical tree (Hernandia sonora), which bears a drupe that rattles when dry in the inflated calyx. (b) A child's toy, consisting of a box, out of which, when the lid is raised, a figure springs. (c) (Mech.) An epicyclic train of bevel gears for transmitting rotary motion to two parts in such a manner that their relative rotation may be variable; applied to driving the wheels of tricycles, road locomotives, and to cotton machinery, etc.; an equation box; a jack frame; -- called also compensating gearing. (d) A large wooden screw turning in a nut attached to the crosspiece of a rude press. -- Jack-in-office, an insolent fellow in authority. Wolcott. -- Jack-in-the-bush (Bot.), a tropical shrub with red fruit (Cordia Cylindrostachya). -- Jack-in-the-green, a chimney sweep inclosed in a framework of boughs, carried in Mayday processions. -- Jack-in-the-pulpit (Bot.), the American plant Arisæma triphyllum, or Indian turnip, in which the upright spadix is inclosed. -- Jack-of-the-buttery (Bot.), the stonecrop (Sedum acre). -- Jack-of-the-clock, a figure, usually of a man, on old clocks, which struck the time on the bell. -- Jack-on-both-sides, one who is or tries to be neutral. -- Jack-out-of-office, one who has been in office and is turned out. Shak. -- Jack the Giant Killer, the hero of a well-known nursery story. -- Jack-with-a-lantern, Jack-o'-lantern. (a) An ignis fatuus; a will-o'-the-wisp. "[Newspaper speculations] supplying so many more jack-o'-lanterns to the future historian." Lowell. (b) A lantern made of a pumpkin so prepared as to show in illumination the features of a human face, etc. -- Yellow Jack (Naut.), the yellow fever; also, the quarantine flag. See Yellow flag, under Flag. JACK Jack, n. Etym: [F. jaque, jacque, perh. from the proper name Jacques. Cf. Jacquerie.] Defn: A coarse and cheap mediæval coat of defense, esp. one made of leather. Their horsemen are with jacks for most part clad. Sir J. Harrington. JACK Jack, n. Etym: [Named from its resemblance to a jack boot.] Defn: A pitcher or can of waxed leather; -- called also black jack. [Obs.] Dryden. JACK Jack, v. i. Defn: To hunt game at night by means of a jack. See 2d Jack, n., 4, n. JACK Jack, v. t. Defn: To move or lift, as a house, by means of a jack or jacks. See 2d Jack, n., 5. JACK-A-DANDY Jack`-a-dan"dy, n. Defn: A little dandy; a little, foppish, impertinent fellow. JACKAL Jack"al`, n. Etym: [Pers. shaghal: cf. OF. jackal, F. chacal; cf. Skr. ç\'f0gala.] 1. (Zoöl.) Defn: Any one of several species of carnivorous animals inhabiting Africa and Asia, related to the dog and wolf. They are cowardly, nocturnal, and gregarious. They feed largely on carrion, and are noted for their piercing and dismal howling. Note: The common species of Southern Asia (Canis aureus) is yellowish gray, varied with brown on the shoulders, haunches, and legs. The common African species (C. anthus) is darker in color. 2. One who does mean work for another's advantage, as jackals were once thought to kill game which lions appropriated. [Colloq.] Ld. Lytton. JACK-A-LENT Jack"-a-lent, n. Defn: A small stuffed puppet to be pelted in Lent; hence, a simple fellow. JACKANAPES Jack"a*napes, n. Etym: [For Jack o' (= of) apes; prop., a man who exhibits apes.] [Written also jackanape.] 1. A monkey; an ape. Shak. 2. A coxcomb; an impertinent or conceited fellow. A young upstart jackanapes. Arbuthnot. JACKAROO; JACKEROO Jack`a*roo", n. Also Jack`e*roo". [Jack + kangaroo.] Defn: A young man living as an apprentice on a sheep station, or otherwise engaged in acquainting himself with colonial life. [Colloq., Australia] JACKAROO Jack`a*roo", v. i. Defn: To be a jackaroo; to pass one's time as a jackaroo. [Colloq., Australia] JACKASS Jack"ass`, n. Etym: [2d jack + ass.] 1. The male ass; a donkey. 2. A conceited dolt; a perverse blockhead. Jackass bark (Naut.), a three-masted vessel, with only the foremast square-rigged; a barkentine. -- Jackass deer (Zoöl.), the koba. -- Jackass hare, Jackass rabbit (Zoöl.). See Jack rabbit, under 2d Jack, n. -- Jackass penguin (Zoöl.), any species of penguin of the genus Spheniscus, of which several are known. One species (S. demersus) inhabits the islands near the Cape of Good Hope; another (S. Magellanicus) is found at the Falkland Islands. They make a noise like the braying of an ass; -- hence the name. -- Laughing jackass. (Zoöl.) See under Laughing. JACKDAW Jack"daw`, n. Etym: [Prob. 2d jack + daw, n.] (Zoöl.) Defn: See Daw, n. JACKEEN Jack*een", n. Defn: A drunken, dissolute fellow. [Ireland] S. C. Hall. JACKET Jack"et, n. Etym: [F. jaquette, dim. of jaque. See 3d Jack, n.] 1. A short upper garment, extending downward to the hips; a short coat without skirts. 2. An outer covering for anything, esp. a covering of some nonconducting material such as wood or felt, used to prevent radiation of heat, as from a steam boiler, cylinder, pipe, etc. 3. (Mil.) Defn: In ordnance, a strengthening band surrounding and reënforcing the tube in which the charge is fired. 4. A garment resembling a waistcoat lined with cork, to serve as a life preserver; -- called also cork jacket. Blue jacket. (Naut.) See under Blue. -- Steam jacket, a space filled with steam between an inner and an outer cylinder, or between a casing and a receptacle, as a kettle. -- To dust one's jacket, to give one a beating. [Colloq.] JACKET Jack"et, v. t. 1. To put a jacket on; to furnish, as a boiler, with a jacket. 2. To thrash; to beat. [Low] JACKETED Jack"et*ed, a. Defn: Wearing, or furnished with, a jacket. JACKETING Jack"et*ing, n. Defn: The material of a jacket; as, nonconducting jacketing. JACK KETCH Jack" Ketch". Etym: [Perh. fr. Jack, the proper name + Prov. E. ketch a hangman, fr. ketch, for catch to seize; but see the citations below.] Defn: A public executioner, or hangman. [Eng.] The manor of Tyburn was formerly held by Richard Jaquett, where felons for a long time were executed; from whence we have Jack Ketch. Lloyd's MS., British Museum. [Monmouth] then accosted John Ketch, the executioner, a wretch who had butchered many brave and noble victims, and whose name has, during a century and a half, been vulgarly given to all who have succeeded him in his odious office. Macaulay. JACKKNIFE Jack"knife`, n. Defn: A large, strong clasp knife for the pocket; a pocket knife. JACK-'-LANTERN Jack"-o'-lan`tern, n. Defn: See Jack-with-a-lantern, under 2d Jack. JACKMAN Jack"man, n.; pl. Jackmen (. 1. One wearing a jack; a horse soldier; a retainer. See 3d Jack, n. Christie . . . the laird's chief jackman. Sir W. Scott. 2. A cream cheese. [Obs.] Sir T. Elyot. JACK-O'-LANTERN Jack"-o'-lan`tern, n. Defn: See Jack-with-a-lantern, under 2d Jack. JACKPOT Jackpot Defn: 1. (a) See "jack