[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

flute or an organ pipe, to modulate the tone. Knight. 3. The iron bottom to which grapeshot are fixed. TOMPON Tom"pon, n. Etym: [F. tampon. See Tampion.] Defn: An inking pad used in lithographic printing. TOMRIG Tom"rig`, n. Etym: [Tom (see Tomboy) + rig.)] Defn: A rude, wild, wanton girl; a hoiden; a tomboy. Dennis. TOMTATE Tom"tate, n. Defn: A Florida and West Indian grunt (Bathystoma, or Hæmulon, rimator); also, any of various allied species. TOMTIT Tom"tit`, n. Etym: [Tom (see Tomboy) + tit the bird.] (Zoöl.) (a) A titmouse, esp. the blue titmouse. [Prov.eng.] (b) The wren. [Prov.eng.] TOM-TOM Tom"-tom`, n. Defn: See Tam-tam. TON Ton, obs. Defn: pl. of Toe. Chaucer. TON Ton, n. Etym: [Cf. Tunny.] (Zoöl.) Defn: The common tunny, or house mackerel. TON Ton, n. Etym: [F. See Tone.] Defn: The prevailing fashion or mode; vogue; as, things of ton. Byron. If our people of ton are selfish, at any rate they show they are selfish. Thackeray. Bon ton. See in the Vocabulary. TON Ton, n. Etym: [OE. tonne, tunne, a tun, AS. tunne a tun, tub, a large vessel; akin to G. & F. tonne a ton, tun, LL. tunna a tun; all perhaps of Celtic origin; cf. Ir. & Gael. tunna a tun. Cf. Tun,Tunnel.] (Com.) Defn: A measure of weight or quantity. Specifically: -- (a) The weight of twenty hundredweight. Note: In England, the ton is 2,240 pounds. In the United States the ton is commonly estimated at 2,000 pounds, this being sometimes called the short ton, while that of 2,240 pounds is called the long ton. (b) (Naut. & Com.) Forty cubic feet of space, being the unit of measurement of the burden, or carrying capacity, of a vessel; as a vessel of 300 tons burden. See the Note under Tonnage. (c) (Naut. & Com.) A certain weight or quantity of merchandise, with reference to transportation as freight; as, six hundred weight of ship bread in casks, seven hundred weight in bags, eight hundred weight in bulk; ten bushels of potatoes; eight sacks, or ten barrels, of flour; forty cubic feet of rough, or fifty cubic feet of hewn, timber, etc. Note: Ton and tun have the same etymology, and were formerly used interchangeably; but now ton generally designates the weight, and tun the cask. See Tun. TONALITY To*nal"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. tonalité.] (Mus.) Defn: The principle of key in music; the character which a composition has by virtue of the key in which it is written, or through the family relationship of all its tones and chords to the keynote, or tonic, of the whole. The predominance of the tonic as the link which connects all the tones of a piece, we may, with Fétis, term the principle of tonality. Helmholtz. TO-NAME To"-name`, n. Etym: [prep. to + name.] Defn: A name added, for the sake of distinction, to one's surname, or used instead of it. [Scot.] Jamieson. TONCA BEAN Ton"ca bean`. (Bot.) Defn: See Tonka bean. TONE Tone, n. Etym: [F. ton, L. tonus a sound, tone, fr. Gr. Thin, and cf. Monotonous, Thunder, Ton fasion,Tune.] 1. Sound, or the character of a sound, or a sound considered as of this or that character; as, a low, high, loud, grave, acute, sweet, or harsh tone. [Harmony divine] smooths her charming tones. Milton. Tones that with seraph hymns might blend. Keble. 2. (Rhet.) Defn: Accent, or inflection or modulation of the voice, as adapted to express emotion or passion. Eager his tone, and ardent were his eyes. Dryden. 3. A whining style of speaking; a kind of mournful or artificial strain of voice; an affected speaking with a measured rhythm ahd a regular rise and fall of the voice; as, children often read with a tone. 4. (Mus.) (a) A sound considered as to pitch; as, the seven tones of the octave; she has good high tones. (b) The larger kind of interval between contiguous sounds in the diatonic scale, the smaller being called a semitone as, a whole tone too flat; raise it a tone. (c) The peculiar quality of sound in any voice or instrument; as, a rich tone, a reedy tone. (d) A mode or tune or plain chant; as, the Gregorian tones. Note: The use of the word tone, both for a sound and for the interval between two sounds or tones, is confusing, but is common -- almost universal. Note: Nearly every musical sound is composite, consisting of several simultaneous tones having different rates of vibration according to fixed laws, which depend upon the nature of the vibrating body and the mode of excitation. The components (of a composite sound) are called partial tones; that one having the lowest rate of vibration is the fundamental tone, and the other partial tones are called harmonics, or overtones. The vibration ratios of the partial tones composing any sound are expressed by all, or by a part, of the numbers in the series 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, etc.; and the quality of any sound (the tone color) is due in part to the presence or absence of overtones as represented in this series, and in part to the greater or less intensity of those present as compared with the fundamental tone and with one another. Resultant tones, combination tones, summation tones, difference tones, Tartini's tones (terms only in part synonymous) are produced by the simultaneous sounding of two or more primary (simple or composite) tones. 5. (Med.) Defn: That state of a body, or of any of its organs or parts, in which the animal functions are healthy and performed with due vigor. Note: In this sense, the word is metaphorically applied to character or faculties, intellectual and moral; as, his mind has lost its tone. 6. (Physiol.) Defn: Tonicity; as, arterial tone. 7. State of mind; temper; mood. The strange situation I am in and the melancholy state of public affairs, . . . drag the mind down . . . from a philosophical tone or temper, to the drudgery of private and public business. Bolingbroke. Their tone was dissatisfied, almost menacing. W. C. Bryant. 8. Tenor; character; spirit; drift; as, the tone of his remarks was commendatory. 9. General or prevailing character or style, as of morals, manners, or sentiment, in reference to a scale of high and low; as, a low tone of morals; a tone of elevated sentiment; a courtly tone of manners. 10. The general effect of a picture produced by the combination of light and shade, together with color in the case of a painting; -- commonly used in a favorable sense; as, this picture has tone. Tone color. (Mus.) see the Note under def. 4, above. -- Tone syllable, an accented syllable. M. Stuart. TONE Tone, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Toned; p. pr. & vb. n. Toning.] 1. To utter with an affected tone. 2. To give tone, or a particular tone, to; to tune. See Tune, v. t. 3. (Photog.) Defn: To bring, as a print, to a certain required shade of color, as by chemical treatment. To tone down. (a) To cause to give lower tone or sound; to give a lower tone to. (b) (Paint.) To modify, as color, by making it less brilliant or less crude; to modify, as a composition of color, by making it more harmonius. Its thousand hues toned down harmoniusly. C. Kingsley. (c) Fig.: To moderate or relax; to diminish or weaken the striking characteristics of; to soften. The best method for the purpose in hand was to employ some one of a character and position suited to get possession of their confidence, and then use it to tone down their religious strictures. Palfrey. -- To tone up, to cause to give a higher tone or sound; to give a higher tone to; to make more intense; to heighten; to strengthen. TONED Toned, a. Defn: Having (such) a tone; -- chiefly used in composition; as, high- toned; sweet-toned. Toned paper, paper having a slight tint, in distinction from paper which is quite white. TONELESS Tone"less, a. Defn: Having no tone; unmusical. TONG; TONGE Tong, Tonge, n. Defn: Tongue. [Obs.] Chaucer. TONGA Ton"ga, n. (Med.) Defn: A drug useful in neuralgia, derived from a Fijian plant supposed to be of the aroid genus Epipremnum. TONGKANG Tong"kang, n. (Naut.) Defn: A kind of boat or junk used in the seas of the Malay Archipelago. TONGO Ton"go, n. Defn: The mangrove; -- so called in the Pacific Islands. TONGS Tongs, n. pl. Etym: [OE. tonge, tange, AS. tange; akin to D. tang, G. zanga, OHG. zanga, Don. tang, Sw. tng, Icel. tng, Gr. dadaTang a strong taste, anything projecting.] Defn: An instrument, usually of metal, consisting of two parts, or long shafts, jointed together at or near one end, or united by an elastic bow, used for handling things, especially hot coals or metals; -- often called a pair of tongs. TONGUE Tongue, n. Etym: [OE. tunge, tonge, AS. tunge; akin to