[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

a comprehensive sense, any currency usually and lawfully employed in buying and selling. Note: Whatever, among barbarous nations, is used as a medium of effecting exchanges of property, and in the terms of which values are reckoned, as sheep, wampum, copper rings, quills of salt or of gold dust, shovel blades, etc., is, in common language, called their money. 3. In general, wealth; property; as, he has much money in land, or in stocks; to make, or lose, money. The love of money is a root of all kinds of evil. 1 Tim vi. 10 (Rev. Ver. ). Money bill (Legislation), a bill for raising revenue. -- Money broker, a broker who deals in different kinds of money; one who buys and sells bills of exchange; -- called also money changer. -- Money cowrie (Zoöl.), any one of several species of Cypræa (esp. C. moneta) formerly much used as money by savage tribes. See Cowrie. -- Money of account, a denomination of value used in keeping accounts, for which there may, or may not, be an equivalent coin; e.g., the mill is a money of account in the United States, but not a coin. -- Money order, an order for the payment of money; specifically, a government order for the payment of money, issued at one post office as payable at another; -- called also postal money order. -- Money scrivener, a person who produces the loan of money to others. [Eng.] -- Money spider, Money spinner (Zoöl.), a small spider; -- so called as being popularly supposed to indicate that the person upon whom it crawls will be fortunate in money matters. -- Money's worth, a fair or full equivalent for the money which is paid. -- A piece of money, a single coin. -- Ready money, money held ready for payment, or actually paid, at the time of a transaction; cash. -- To make money, to gain or acquire money or property; to make a profit in dealings. MONEY Mon"ey, v. t. Defn: To supply with money. [Obs.] MONEYAGE Mon"ey*age, n. Etym: [Cf. F. monnayage coinage.] 1. A tax paid to the first two Norman kings of England to prevent them from debashing the coin. Hume. 2. Mintage; coinage. [Obs.] MONEYED Mon"eyed, adv. 1. Supplied with money; having money; wealthy; as, moneyey men. Bacon. 2. Converted into money; coined. If exportation will not balance importation, away must your silver go again, whether moneyed or not moneyed. Locke. 3. Consisting in, or composed of, money. A. Hamilton. MONEYER Mon"ey*er, n. Etym: [From Money; cf. OF. monoier, F. monnoayeur, L. monetarius a master of the mint. Cf. Monetary.] 1. A person who deals in money; banker or broker. [Obs. or R.] 2. An authorized coiner of money. Sir M. Hale. The Company of Moneyers, the officials who formerly coined the money of Great Britain, and who claimed certain prescriptive rights and privileges. MONEYLESS Mon"ey*less, a. Defn: Destitute of money; penniless; impecunious. Swift. MONEY-MAKER Mon"ey-mak`er, n. 1. One who coins or prints money; also, a counterfeiter of money. [R.] 2. One who accumulates money or wealth; specifically, one who makes money-getting his governing motive. MONEY-MAKING Mon"ey-mak`ing, n. Defn: The act or process of making money; the acquisition and accumulation of wealth. Obstinacy in money-making. Milman. MONEY-MAKING Mon"ey-mak`ing, a. 1. Affording profitable returns; lucrative; as, a money-making business. 2. Sussessful in gaining money, and devoted to that aim; as, a money- making man. MONEYWORT Mon"ey*wort`, n. (Bot.) Defn: A trailing plant (Lysimachia Nummularia), with rounded opposite leaves and solitary yellow flowers in their axils. MONGCORN Mong"corn`, n. Defn: See Mangcorn. MONGER Mon"ger, n. Etym: [AS. mangere, fr. mangian to trade; akin to Icel. manga to trade, mangari a trader, OHG. mangari, mengari; cf. L. mango a dealer in slaves.] 1. A trader; a dealer; -- now used chiefly in composition; as, fishmonger, ironmonger, newsmonger. 2. A small merchant vessel. [Obs.] Blount. MONGER Mon"ger, v. t. Defn: To deal in; to make merchandise of; to traffic in; -- used chiefly of discreditable traffic. MONGOL Mon"gol, n. Defn: One of the Mongols. -- a. Defn: Of or pertaining to Mongolia or the Mongols. MONGOLIAN Mon*go"li*an, a. Defn: Of or pertaining to Mongolia or the Mongols. -- n. Defn: One of the Mongols. MONGOLIC Mon*gol"ic, a. Defn: See Mongolian. MONGOLOID Mon"go*loid, a. Etym: [Mongol + -oid.] Defn: Resembling a Mongol or the Mongols; having race characteristics, such as color, hair, and features, like those of the Mongols. Huxley. MONGOLS; MONGOLIANS Mon"gols, Mon*go"li*ans, n. pl. (Ethnol.) Defn: One of the great races of man, including the greater part of the inhabitants of China, Japan, and the interior of Asia, with branches in Northern Europe and other parts of the world. By some American Indians are considered a branch of the Mongols. In a more restricted sense, the inhabitants of Mongolia and adjacent countries, including the Burats and the Kalmuks. MONGOOSE; MONGOOS Mon"goose, Mon"goos, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: A species of ichneumon (Herpestes griseus), native of India. Applied also to other allied species, as the African banded mongoose (Crossarchus fasciatus). [Written also mungoose, mungoos, mungous.] MONGREL Mon"grel, n. Etym: [Prob. shortened fr. mongrel, and akin to AS. mengan to mix, and E. mingle. See Mingle.] Defn: The progeny resulting from a cross between two breeds, as of domestic animals; anything of mixed breed. Drayton. MONGREL Mon"grel, a. 1. (Zoöl.) Defn: Not of a pure breed. 2. Of mixed kinds; as, mongrel language. MONGRELIZE Mon"grel*ize, v. t. & i. Defn: To cause to be mongrel; to cross breeds, so as to produce mongrels. 'MONGST 'Mongst, prep. Defn: See Amongst. MONIED Mon"ied, a. Defn: See Moneyed. MONIFIER Mo*nif"i*er, n. Etym: [NL., fr. L. monile necklace + ferre to bear.] (Paleon.) Defn: A fossil fish. MONILIALES Mo*nil`i*a"les, n. pl. [NL., fr. L. monile necklace, -- because the conidia are produced in chains.] (Bot.) Defn: The largest of the three orders into which the Fungi Imperfecti are divided, including various forms. MONILIFORM Mo*nil"i*form, a. Etym: [L. monile necklace + -form: cf. F. moniliforme.] (Biol.) Defn: Joined or constricted, at regular intervals, so as to resemble a string of beads; as, a moniliform root; a moniliform antenna. See Illust. of Antenna. MONIMENT Mon"i*ment, n. Etym: [L. monimentum, monumentum. See Monument.] Defn: Something to preserve memory; a reminder; a monument; hence, a mark; an image; a superscription; a record. [Obs.] Spenser. MONISH Mon"ish, v. t. Etym: [OE. monesten. See Admonish, Monition.] Defn: To admonish; to warn. See Admonish. [Archaic] Ascham. MONISHER Mon"ish*er, n. Defn: One who monishes; an admonisher. [Archaic] MONISHMENT Mon"ish*ment, n. Defn: Admonition. [Archaic] MONISM Mon"ism, n. Etym: [From Gr. 1. (Metaph.) Defn: That doctrine which refers all phenomena to a single ultimate constituent or agent; -- the opposite of dualism. Note: The doctrine has been held in three generic forms: matter and its phenomena have been explained as a modification of mind, involving an idealistic monism; or mind has been explained by and resolved into matter, giving a materialistic monism; or, thirdly, matter, mind, and their phenomena have been held to be manifestations or modifications of some one substance, like the substance of Spinoza, or a supposed unknown something of some evolutionists, which is capable of an objective and subjective aspect. 2. (Biol.) Defn: See Monogenesis, 1. MONIST Mon"ist, n. Defn: A believer in monism. MONISTIC Mo*nis"tic, a. Defn: Of, pertaining to, or involving, monism. MONITION Mo*ni"tion, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. monitio, from monere to warn, bring to mind; akin to E. mind. See Mind, and cf. Admonish, Money, Monster.] 1. Instruction or advice given by way of caution; an admonition; a warning; a caution. Sage monitions from his friends. Swift. 2. Information; indication; notice; advice. We have no visible monition of ... other periods, such as we have of the day by successive light and darkness. Holder. 3. (Admiralty Practice) Defn: A process in the nature of a summons to appear and answer. 4. (Eccl. Law) Defn: An order monishing a party complained against to obey under pain of the law. Shipley. MONITIVE Mon"i*tive, a. Defn: Conveying admonition; admonitory. Barrow. MONITOR Mon"i*tor, n. Etym: [L., fr. monere. See Monition, and cf. Mentor.] 1. One who admonishes; one who warns of faults, informs of duty, or gives advice and instruction by way of reproof or caution. You need not be a monitor to the king. Bacon. 2. Hence, specifically, a pupil selected to look to the school in the absence of the instructor, to notice the absence or faults of the scholars, or to instruct a division or class. 3. (Zoöl.) Defn: Any large Old World lizard of the genus Varanus; esp., the Egyptian species (V. Niloticus), which is useful because it devours the eggs and young of the crocodile. It is sometimes five or six feet long. 4. Etym: [So called from the name given by Captain Ericson, its designer, to the first ship of the kind.] Defn: An ironclad war vessel, very low in the water, and having one or more heavily-armored revolving turrets, carrying heavy guns. 5.