[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

of goods, etc., thrown on shore after a shipwreck. WREKE; WREEKE Wreke, Wreeke, v. t. Defn: See 2d Wreak. [Obs.] WREN Wren, n. Etym: [OE. wrenne, AS. wrenna, wrænna, perhaps akin to wr lascivious.] 1. (Zoöl.) Defn: Any one of numerous species of small singing birds belonging to Troglodytes and numerous allied of the family Troglodytidæ. Note: Among the species best known are the house wren (Troglodytes aëdon) common in both Europe and America, and the American winter wren (T. hiemalis). See also Cactus wren, Marsh wren, and Rock wren, under Cactus, Marsh, and Rock. 2. (Zoöl.) Defn: Any one of numerous species of small singing birds more or less resembling the true wrens in size and habits. Note: Among these are several species of European warblers; as, the reed wren (see Reed warbler (a), under Reed), the sedge wren (see Sedge warbler, under Sedge), the willow wren (see Willow warbler, under Willow), the golden-crested wren, and the ruby-crowned wren (see Kinglet). Ant wren, any one of numerous South American birds of the family Formicaridæ, allied to the ant thrushes. -- Blue wren, a small Australian singing bird (Malurus cyaneus), the male of which in the breeding season is bright blue. Called also superb warbler. -- Emu wren. See in the Vocabulary. -- Wren babbler, any one of numerous species of small timaline birds belonging to Alcippe, Stachyris, Timalia, and several allied genera. These birds are common in Southern Asia and the East Indies. -- Wren tit. See Ground wren, under Ground. -- Wren warbler, any one of several species of small Asiatic and African singing birds belonging to Prinia and allied genera. These birds are closely allied to the tailor birds, and build their nests in a similar manner. See also Pincpinc. WRENCH Wrench, n. Etym: [OE. wrench deceit, AS. wrenc deceit, a twisting; akin to G. rank intrigue, crookedness, renken to bend, twist, and E. wring. Wring, and cf. Ranch, v. t.] 1. Trick; deceit; fraud; stratagem. [Obs.] His wily wrenches thou ne mayst not flee. Chaucer. 2. A violent twist, or a pull with twisting. He wringeth them such a wrench. Skelton. The injurious effect upon biographic literature of all such wrenches to the truth, is diffused everywhere. De Quincey. 3. A sprain; an injury by twisting, as in a joint. 4. Means; contrivance. [Obs.] Bacon. 5. An instrument, often a simple bar or lever with jaws or an angular orifice either at the end or between the ends, for exerting a twisting strain, as in turning bolts, nuts, screw taps, etc.; a screw key. Many wrenches have adjustable jaws for grasping nuts, etc., of different sizes. 6. (Mech.) Defn: The system made up of a force and a couple of forces in a plane perpendicular to that force. Any number of forces acting at any points upon a rigid body may be compounded so as to be equivalent to a wrench. Carriage wrench, a wrench adapted for removing or tightening the nuts that confine the wheels on the axles, or for turning the other nuts or bolts of a carriage or wagon. -- Monkey wrench. See under Monkey. -- Wrench hammer, a wrench with the end shaped so as to admit of being used as a hammer. WRENCH Wrench, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Wrenched; p. pr. & vb. n. Wrenching.] Etym: [OE. wrenchen, AS. wrencan to deceive, properly, to twist, from wrenc guile, deceit, a twisting. Wrench, n.] 1. To pull with a twist; to wrest, twist, or force by violence. Wrench his sword from him. Shak. Forthwith this frame of mine was wrenched With a woeful agony. Coleridge. 2. To strain; to sprain; hence, to distort; to pervert. You wrenched your foot against a stone. Swift. WREST Wrest, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Wrested; p. pr. & vb. n. Wresting.] Etym: [OE. wresten, AS. wr; akin to wr a twisted band, and wri to twist. See Writhe.] 1. To turn; to twist; esp., to twist or extort by violence; to pull of force away by, or as if by, violent wringing or twisting. "The secret wrested from me." Milton. Our country's cause, That drew our swords, now secret wrests them from our hand. Addison. They instantly wrested the government out of the hands of Hastings. Macaulay. 2. To turn from truth; to twist from its natural or proper use or meaning by violence; to pervert; to distort. Wrest once the law to your authority. Shak. Thou shalt not wrest the judgment of thy poor. Ex. xxiii. 6. Their arts of wresting, corrupting, and false interpreting the holy text. South. 3. To tune with a wrest, or key. [Obs.] WREST Wrest, n. 1. The act of wresting; a wrench; a violent twist; hence, distortion; perversion. Hooker. 2. Active or moving power. [Obs.] Spenser. 3. A key to tune a stringed instrument of music. The minstrel . . . wore round his neck a silver chain, by which hung the wrest, or key, with which he tuned his harp. Sir W. Scott. 4. A partition in a water wheel, by which the form of the buckets is determined. Wrest pin (Piano Manuf.), one of the pins around which the ends of the wires are wound in a piano. Knight. -- Wrest plank (Piano Manuf.), the part in which the wrest pins are inserted. WRESTER Wrest"er, n. Defn: One who wrests. WRESTLE Wres"tle, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Wrestled; p. pr. & vb. n. Wrestling.] Etym: [OE. wrestlen, wrastlen, AS. wr, freq. of wr to wrest; akin to OD. wrastelen to wrestle. See Wrest, v. t.] 1. To contend, by grappling with, and striving to trip or throw down, an opponent; as, they wrestled skillfully. To-morrow, sir, I wrestle for my credit, and he that escapes me without some broken limb shall acquit him well. Shak. Another, by a fall in wrestling, started the end of the clavicle from the sternum. Wiseman. 2. Hence, to struggle; to strive earnestly; to contend. Come, wrestle with thy affections. Shak. We wrestle not against flesh and blood. Eph. vi. 12. Difficulties with which he had himself wrestled. M. Arnold. WRESTLE Wres"tle, v. t. Defn: To wrestle with; to seek to throw down as in wrestling. WRESTLE Wres"tle, n. Defn: A struggle between two persons to see which will throw the other down; a bout at wrestling; a wrestling match; a struggle. Whom in a wrestle the giant catching aloft, with a terrible hug broke three of his ribs. Milton. WRESTLER Wres"tler, n. Etym: [AS. wræstlere.] Defn: One who wrestles; one who is skillful in wrestling. WRESTLING Wres"tling, n. Defn: Act of one who wrestles; specif., the sport consisting of the hand-to-hand combat between two unarmed contestants who seek to throw each other. The various styles of wrestling differ in their definition of a fall and in the governing rules. In Greco-Roman wrestling, tripping and taking hold of the legs are forbidden, and a fall is gained (that is, the bout is won), by the contestant who pins both his opponent's shoulders to the ground. In catch-as-catch-can wrestling, all holds are permitted except such as may be barred by mutual consent, and a fall is defined as in Greco-Roman style. Lancashire style wrestling is essentially the same as catch-as-catch- can. In Cumberland and Westmorland wrestling the contestants stand chest to chest, grasping each other around the body. The one first losing his hold, or touching the ground with any part of his body except his feet, loses the bout. If both fall to the ground at the same time, it is a dogfall, and must be wrestled over. In the Cornwall and Devon wrestling, the wrestlers complete in strong loose linen jackets, catching hold of the jacket, or anywhere above the waist. Two shoulders and one hip, or two hips and one shoulder, must touch the ground to constitute a fall, and if a man is thrown otherwise than on his back the contestants get upon their feet and the bout recommences. WRETCH Wretch, n. Etym: [OE. wrecche, AS. wrecca, wræcca, an exile, a wretch, fr. wrecan to drive out, punish; properly, an exile, one driven out, akin to AS. wræc an exile, OS. wrekkio a stranger, OHG. reccheo an exile. See Wreak, v. t.] 1. A miserable person; one profoundly unhappy. "The wretch that lies in woe." Shak. Hovered thy spirit o'er thy sorrowing son, Wretch even then, life's journey just begun Cowper. 2. One sunk in vice or degradation; a base, despicable person; a vile knave; as, a profligate wretch. Note: Wretch is sometimes used by way of slight or ironical pity or contempt, and sometimes to express tenderness; as we say, poor thing. "Poor wretch was never frighted so." Drayton. WRETCHED Wretch"ed, a. 1. Very miserable; sunk in, or accompanied by, deep affliction or distress, as from want, anxiety, or grief; calamitous; woeful; very afflicting. "To what wretched state reserved!" Milton. O cruel! Death! to those you are more kind Than to the wretched mortals