[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

of tannin, and is much used by tanners and dyers. 2. Etym: [Perhaps named from its resemblance to an acorn.] (Bot.) Defn: A genus of marine green algæ, in which the whole frond consists of a single oval or cylindrical cell, often an inch in length. VALOR Val"or, n. Etym: [OE. valour, OF. valor, valur, valour, F. valeur, LL. valor, fr. L. valere to be strong, or worth. See Valiant.] [Written also valour.] 1. Value; worth. [Obs.] "The valor of a penny." Sir T. More. 2. Strength of mind in regard to danger; that quality which enables a man to encounter danger with firmness; personal bravery; courage; prowess; intrepidity. For contemplation he and valor formed. Milton. When valor preys on reason, It eats the sword it fights with. Shak. Fear to do base, unworthy things is valor. B. Jonson. 3. A brave man; a man of valor. [R.] Ld. Lytton. Syn. -- Courage; heroism; bravery; gallantry; boldness; fearlessness. See Courage, and Heroism. VALORIZATION Val`or*i*za"tion, n. [Pg. valorizacão.] Defn: Act or process of attempting to give an arbitrary market value or price to a commodity by governmental interference, as by maintaining a purchasing fund, making loans to producers to enable them to hold their products, etc.; -- used chiefly of such action by Brazil. VALOROUS Val"or*ous, a. Etym: [Cf. F. valeureux, LL. valorosus.] Defn: Possessing or exhibiting valor; brave; courageous; valiant; intrepid. -- Val"or*ous*ly, adv. VALSALVIAN Val*sal"vi*an, a. Defn: Of or pertaining to Valsalva, an Italian anatomist of the 17th century. Valsalvian experiment (Med.), the process of inflating the middle ear by closing the mouth and nostrils, and blowing so as to puff out the cheeks. VALUABLE Val"u*a*ble, a. 1. Having value or worth; possessing qualities which are useful and esteemed; precious; costly; as, a valuable horse; valuable land; a valuable cargo. 2. Worthy; estimable; deserving esteem; as, a valuable friend; a valuable companion. Valuable consideration (Law), an equivalent or compensation having value given for a thing purchased, as money, marriage, services, etc. Blackstone. Bouvier. VALUABLE Val"u*a*ble, n. Defn: A precious possession; a thing of value, especially a small thing, as an article of jewelry; -- used mostly in the plural. The food and valuables they offer to the gods. Tylor. VALUABLENESS Val"u*a*ble*ness, n. Defn: The quality of being valuable. VALUABLY Val"u*a*bly, adv. Defn: So as to be of value. VALUATION Val`u*a"tion, n. 1. The act of valuing, or of estimating value or worth; the act of setting a price; estimation; appraisement; as, a valuation of lands for the purpose of taxation. 2. Value set upon a thing; estimated value or worth; as, the goods sold for more than their valuation. Since of your lives you set So slight a valuation. Shak. VALUATOR Val"u*a`tor, n. Defn: One who assesses, or sets a value on, anything; an appraiser. Swift. VALUE Val"ue, n. Etym: [OF. value, fr. valoir, p. p. valu, to be worth, fr. L. valere to be strong, to be worth. See Valiant.] 1. The property or aggregate properties of a thing by which it is rendered useful or desirable, or the degree of such property or sum of properties; worth; excellence; utility; importance. Ye are all physicians of no value. Job xiii. 4. Ye are of more value than many sparrows. Matt. x. 31. Cæsar is well acquainted with your virtue, And therefore sets this value on your life. Addison. Before events shall have decided on the value of the measures. Marshall. 2. (Trade & Polit. Econ.) Defn: Worth estimated by any standard of purchasing power, especially by the market price, or the amount of money agreed upon as an equivalent to the utility and cost of anything. An article may be possessed of the highest degree of utility, or power to minister to our wants and enjoyments, and may be universally made use of, without possessing exchangeable value. M'Culloch. Value is the power to command commodities generally. A. L. Chapin (Johnson's Cys.). Value is the generic term which expresses power in exchange. F. A. Walker. His design was not to pay him the value of his pictures, because they were above any price. Dryden. Note: In political economy, value is often distinguished as intrinsic and exchangeable. Intrinsic value is the same as utility or adaptation to satisfy the desires or wants of men. Exchangeable value is that in an article or product which disposes individuals to give for it some quantity of labor, or some other article or product obtainable by labor; as, pure air has an intrinsic value, but generally not an exchangeable value. 3. Precise signification; import; as, the value of a word; the value of a legal instrument Mitford. 4. Esteem; regard. Dryden. My relation to the person was so near, and my value for him so great Bp. Burnet. 5. (Mus.) Defn: The relative length or duration of a tone or note, answering to quantity in prosody; thus, a quarter note [value of two eighth notes [ 6. In an artistical composition, the character of any one part in its relation to other parts and to the whole; -- often used in the plural; as, the values are well given, or well maintained. 7. Valor. [Written also valew.] [Obs.] Spenser. Value received, a phrase usually employed in a bill of exchange or a promissory note, to denote that a consideration has been given for it. Bouvier. VALUE Val"ue, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Valued; p. pr. & vb. n. Valuing.] 1. To estimate the value, or worth, of; to rate at a certain price; to appraise; to reckon with respect to number, power, importance, etc. The mind doth value every moment. Bacon. The queen is valued thirty thousand strong. Shak. The king must take it ill, That he's so slightly valued in his messenger. Shak. Neither of them valued their promises according to rules of honor or integrity. Clarendon. 2. To rate highly; to have in high esteem; to hold in respect and estimation; to appreciate; to prize; as, to value one for his works or his virtues. Which of the dukes he values most. Shak. 3. To raise to estimation; to cause to have value, either real or apparent; to enhance in value. [Obs.] Some value themselves to their country by jealousies of the crown. Sir W. Temple. 4. To be worth; to be equal to in value. [Obs.] The peace between the French and us not values The cost that did conclude it. Shak. Syn. -- To compute; rate; appraise; esteem; respect; regard; estimate; prize; appreciate. VALUED Val"ued, a. Defn: Highly regarded; esteemed; prized; as, a valued contributor; a valued friend. Valued policy. See under Policy. VALUED POLICY Val"ued pol"i*cy. (Fire Insurance) Defn: A policy in which the value of the goods, property, or interest insured is specified; -- opposed to open policy. VALUED-POLICY LAW Valued-policy law. (Fire Insurance) Defn: A law requiring insurance companies to pay to the insured, in case of total loss, the full amount of the insurance, regardless of the actual value of the property at the time of the loss. VALUELESS Val"ue*less, a. Defn: Being of no value; having no worth. VALUER Val"u*er, n. Defn: One who values; an appraiser. VALURE Val"ure, n. Defn: Value. [Obs.] Ld. Berners. VALVAL; VALVAR Valv"al, Valv"ar, a. (Biol.) Defn: Valvular. VALVASOR Val"va*sor, n. (Feud. Law) Defn: See Vavasor. VALVATA Val*va"ta, n. Etym: [NL.; cf. L. valvatus having folding doors. See Valve.] (Zoöl.) Defn: A genus of small spiral fresh-water gastropods having an operculum. VALVATE Valv"ate, a. Etym: [L. valvatus having folding doors.] 1. Resembling, or serving as, a valve; consisting of, or opening by, a valve or valves; valvular. 2. (Bot.) (a) Meeting at the edges without overlapping; -- said of the sepals or the petals of flowers in æstivation, and of leaves in vernation. (b) Opening as if by doors or valves, as most kinds of capsules and some anthers. VALVE Valve, n. Etym: [L. valva the leaf, fold, or valve of a door: cf. F. valve.] 1. A door; especially, one of a pair of folding doors, or one of the leaves of such a door. Swift through the valves the visionary fair Repassed. Pope. Heavily closed, . . . the valves of the barn doors. Longfellow. 2. A lid, plug, or cover, applied to an aperture so that by its movement, as by swinging, lifting and falling, sliding, turning, or the like, it will open or close the aperture to permit or prevent passage, as of a fluid. Note: A valve may act automatically so as to be opened by the effort of a fluid to pass in one direction, and closed by the effort to pass in the other direction, as a clack valve; or it may be opened or closed by hand or by mechanism, as a screw valve, or a slide valve. 3. (Anat.) Defn: One or more membranous partitions, flaps, or folds, which permit the passage of the contents of a vessel or cavity in one direction, but stop or retard the flow in