[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

the heart is attached to, national representative assemblies, but must turn with horror and disgust from such a profane burlesque and abominable perversion of that sacred institute Burke. Syn. -- Mockery; farce; travesty; mimicry. BURLESQUE Bur*lesque", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Burlesqued; p. pr. & vb. n. Burlesquing.] Defn: To ridicule, or to make ludicrous by grotesque representation in action or in language. They burlesqued the prophet Jeremiah's words, and turned the expression he used into ridicule. Stillingfleet. BURLESQUE Bur*lesque", v. i. Defn: To employ burlesque. BURLESQUER Bur*les"quer, n. Defn: One who burlesques. BURLETTA Bur*let"ta, n. Etym: [It., dim. of burla mockery. See Burlesque, a.] (Mus.) Defn: A comic operetta; a music farce. Byron. BURLINESS Bur"li*ness, n. Defn: Quality of being burly. BURLY Bur"ly, a. Etym: [OE. burlich strong, excellent; perh. orig. fit for a lady's bower, hence handsome, manly, stout. Cf. Bower.] 1. Having a large, strong, or gross body; stout; lusty; -- now used chiefly of human beings, but formerly of animals, in the sense of stately or beautiful, and of inanimate things that were huge and bulky. "Burly sacks." Drayton. In his latter days, with overliberal diet, [he was] somewhat corpulent and burly. Sir T. More. Burly and big, and studious of his ease. Cowper. 2. Coarse and rough; boisterous. It was the orator's own burly way of nonsense. Cowley. BURMAN Bur"man, n.; pl. Burmans (. Etym: ["The softened modern M'yan-ma, M'yan-ma [native name] is the source of the European corruption Burma." Balfour.], (Ethnol.) Defn: A member of the Burman family, one of the four great families Burmah; also, sometimes, any inhabitant of Burmah; a Burmese. -- a. Defn: Of or pertaining to the Burmans or to Burmah. BUR MARIGOLD Bur" mar"i*gold. Defn: See Beggar's ticks. BURMESE Bur`mese", a. Defn: Of or pertaining to Burmah, or its inhabitants. -- n. sing. & pl. Defn: A native or the natives of Burmah. Also (sing.), the language of the Burmans. BURN Burn, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Burned (Burnt (p. pr. & vb. n. Burning.] Etym: [OE. bernen, brennen, v.t., early confused with beornen, birnen, v.i., AS. bærnan, bernan, v.t., birnan, v.i.; akin to OS. brinnan, OFries. barna, berna, OHG. brinnan, brennan, G. brennen, OD. bernen, D. branden, Dan. brænde, Sw. bränna, brinna, Icel. brenna, Goth. brinnan, brannjan (in comp.), and possibly to E. fervent.] 1. To consume with fire; to reduce to ashes by the action of heat or fire; -- frequently intensified by up: as, to burn up wood. "We'll burn his body in the holy place." Shak. 2. To injure by fire or heat; to change destructively some property or properties of, by undue exposure to fire or heat; to scorch; to scald; to blister; to singe; to char; to sear; as, to burn steel in forging; to burn one's face in the sun; the sun burns the grass. 3. To perfect or improve by fire or heat; to submit to the action of fire or heat for some economic purpose; to destroy or change some property or properties of, by exposure to fire or heat in due degree for obtaining a desired residuum, product, or effect; to bake; as, to burn clay in making bricks or pottery; to burn wood so as to produce charcoal; to burn limestone for the lime. 4. To make or produce, as an effect or result, by the application of fire or heat; as, to burn a hole; to burn charcoal; to burn letters into a block. 5. To consume, injure, or change the condition of, as if by action of fire or heat; to affect as fire or heat does; as, to burn the mouth with pepper. This tyrant fever burns me up. Shak. This dry sorrow burns up all my tears. Dryden. When the cold north wind bloweth, . . . it devoureth the mountains, and burneth the wilderness, and consumeth the Ecclus. xliii. 20, 21. 6. (Surg.) Defn: To apply a cautery to; to cauterize. 7. (Chem.) Defn: To cause to combine with oxygen or other active agent, with evolution of heat; to consume; to oxidize; as, a man burns a certain amount of carbon at each respiration; to burn iron in oxygen. To burn, To burn together, as two surfaces of metal (Engin.), to fuse and unite them by pouring over them a quantity of the same metal in a liquid state. -- To burn a bowl (Game of Bowls), to displace it accidentally, the bowl so displaced being said to be burned. -- To burn daylight, to light candles before it is dark; to waste time; to perform superfluous actions. Shak. -- To burn one's fingers, to get one's self into unexpected trouble, as by interfering the concerns of others, speculation, etc. -- To burn out, to destroy or obliterate by burning. "Must you with hot irons burn out mine eyes" Shak. -- To be burned out, to suffer loss by fire, as the burning of one's house, store, or shop, with the contents. -- To burn up, To burn down, to burn entirely. BURN Burn, v. i. 1. To be of fire; to flame. "The mount burned with fire." Deut. ix. 15. 2. To suffer from, or be scorched by, an excess of heat. Your meat doth burn, quoth I. Shak. 3. To have a condition, quality, appearance, sensation, or emotion, as if on fire or excessively heated; to act or rage with destructive violence; to be in a state of lively emotion or strong desire; as, the face burns; to burn with fever. Did not our heart burn within us, while he talked with us by the way Luke xxiv. 32. The barge she sat in, like a burnished throne, Burned on the water. Shak. Burning with high hope. Byron. The groan still deepens, and the combat burns. Pope. The parching air Burns frore, and cold performs the effect of fire. Milton. 4. (Chem.) Defn: To combine energetically, with evolution of heat; as, copper burns in chlorine. 5. In certain games, to approach near to a concealed object which is sought. [Colloq.] To burn out, to burn till the fuel is exhausted. -- To burn up, To burn down, to be entirely consumed. BURN Burn, n. 1. A hurt, injury, or effect caused by fire or excessive or intense heat. 2. The operation or result of burning or baking, as in brickmaking; as, they have a good burn. 3. A disease in vegetables. See Brand, n., 6. BURN Burn, n. Etym: [See 1st Bourn.] Defn: A small stream. [Scot.] BURNABLE Burn"a*ble, a. Defn: Combustible. Cotgrave. BURNED Burned, p. p. & a. Defn: See Burnt. BURNED Burned, p. p. Defn: Burnished. [Obs.] Chaucer. BURNER Burn"er, n. 1. One who, or that which, burns or sets fire to anything. 2. The part of a lamp, gas fixture, etc., where the flame is produced. Bunsen's burner (Chem.), a kind of burner, invented by Professor Bunsen of Heidelberg, consisting of a straight tube, four or five inches in length, having small holes for the entrance of air at the bottom. Illuminating gas being also admitted at the bottom, a mixture of gas and air is formed which burns at the top with a feebly luminous but intensely hot flame. -- Argand burner, Rose burner, etc. See under Argand, Rose, etc. BURNET Bur"net, n. Etym: [OE. burnet burnet; also, brownish (the plant perh. being named from its color), fr. F. brunet, dim. of brun brown; cf. OF. brunete a sort of flower. See Brunette.] (Bot.) Defn: A genus of perennial herbs (Poterium); especially, P.Sanguisorba, the common, or garden, burnet. Burnet moth (Zoöl.), in England, a handsome moth (Zygæna filipendula), with crimson spots on the wings. -- Burnet saxifrage. (Bot.) See Saxifrage. -- Canadian burnet, a marsh plant (Poterium Canadensis). -- Great burnet, Wild burnet, Poterium (or Sanguisorba) oficinalis. BURNETTIZE Bur"nett*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Burnettized (; p. pr. & vb. n. Burnettizing.] (Manuf.) Defn: To subject (wood, fabrics, etc.) to a process of saturation in a solution of chloride of zinc, to prevent decay; -- a process invented by Sir William Burnett. BURNIE Burn"ie, n. Etym: [See 4th Burn.] Defn: A small brook. [Scot.] Burns. BURNIEBEE Bur"nie*bee`, n. Defn: The ladybird. [Prov. Eng.] BURNING Burn"ing, a. 1. That burns; being on fire; excessively hot; fiery. 2. Consuming; intense; inflaming; exciting; vehement; powerful; as, burning zeal. Like a young hound upon a burning scent. Dryden. Burning bush (Bot.), an ornamental shrub (Euonymus atropurpureus), bearing a crimson berry. BURNING Burn"ing, n. Defn: The act of consuming by fire or heat, or of subjecting to the effect of fire or heat; the state of being on fire or excessively heated. Burning fluid, any volatile illuminating oil, as the lighter petroleums (naphtha, benzine), or oil of turpentine (camphine), but esp. a mixture of the latter with alcohol. -- Burning glass, a conxex lens of considerable size, used for producing an intense heat by converging the sun's rays to a focus. -- Burning house (Metal.), the furnace in which