[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

kind-hearted littérateur after another." C. Kingsley. LITTERY Lit"ter*y, a. Defn: Covered or encumbered with litter; consisting of or constituting litter. LITTLE Lit"tle, a. [The regular comparative of this word is wanting, its place being supplied by less, or, rarely, lesser. See Lesser. For the superlative least is used, the regular form, littlest, occurring very rarely, except in some of the English provinces, and occasionally in colloquial language. " Where love is great, the littlest doubts are fear." Shak.] Etym: [OE. litel, lutel, AS. l, litel, l; akin to OS. littil, D. luttel, LG. lütt, OHG. luzzil, MHG. lützel; and perh. to AS. lytig deceitful, lot deceit, Goth. liuts deceitful, lut to deceive; cf. also Icel. litill little, Sw. liten, Dan. liden, lille, Goth. leitils, which appear to have a different root vowel.] 1. Small in size or extent; not big; diminutive; -- opposed to big or large; as, a little body; a little animal; a little piece of ground; a little hill; a little distance; a little child. He sought to see Jesus who he was; and could not for the press, because he was little of stature. Luke xix. 3. 2. Short in duration; brief; as, a little sleep. Best him enough: after a little time, I'll beat him too. Shak. 3. Small in quantity or amount; not much; as, a little food; a little air or water. Conceited of their little wisdoms, and doting upon their own fancies. Barrow. 4. Small in dignity, power, or importance; not great; insignificant; contemptible. When thou wast little in thine own sight, wast thou not made the head of the tribes I Sam. xv. 17. 5. Small in force or efficiency; not strong; weak; slight; inconsiderable; as, little attention or exertion;little effort; little care or diligence. By sad experiment I know How little weight my words with thee can find. Milton. 6. Small in extent of views or sympathies; narrow; shallow; contracted; mean; illiberal; ungenerous. The long-necked geese of the world that are ever hissing dispraise, Because their natures are little. Tennyson. Little chief. (Zoöl.) See Chief hare. -- Little finger, the fourth and smallest finger of the hand. -- Little go (Eng. Universities), a public examination about the middle of the course, which as less strict and important than the final one; -- called also smalls. Cf. Great go, under Great. Thackeray. -- Little hours (R. C. Ch.), the offices of prime, tierce, sext, and nones. Vespers and compline are sometimes included. -- Little ones, young children. The men, and the women, and the little ones. Deut. ii. 34. LITTLE Lit"tle, n. 1. That which is little; a small quantity, amount, space, or the like. Much was in little writ. Dryden. There are many expressions, which carrying with them no clear ideas, are like to remove but little of my ignorance. Locke. 2. A small degree or scale; miniature. " His picture in little." Shak. A little, to or in a small degree; to a limited extent; somewhat; for a short time. " Stay a little." Shak. The painter flattered her a little. Shak. -- By little and little, or Little by little, by slow degrees; piecemeal; gradually. LITTLE Lit"tle, adv. Defn: In a small quantity or degree; not much; slightly; somewhat; -- often with a preceding it. " The poor sleep little." Otway. LITTLE-EASE Lit"tle-ease`, n. Defn: An old slang name for the pillory, stocks, etc., of a prison.[Eng.] Latimer. LITTLENESS Lit"tle*ness, n. Defn: The state or quality of being little; as, littleness of size, thought, duration, power, etc. Syn. -- Smallness; slightness; inconsiderableness; narrowness; insignificance; meanness; penuriousness. LITTORAL Lit"to*ral, a. Etym: [L. littoralis, litoralis, from littus, litus, the seashore: cf. F. littoral.] 1. Of or pertaining to a shore, as of the sea. 2. (Biol.) Defn: Inhabiting the seashore, esp. the zone between high-water and low-water mark. LITTORINA Lit"to*ri"na, n. Etym: [NL. See Littoral.] (Zoöl.) Defn: A genus of small pectinibranch mollusks, having thick spiral shells, abundant between tides on nearly all rocky seacoasts. They feed on seaweeds. The common periwinkle is a well-known example. See Periwinkle. LITTRESS Lit"tress, n. Defn: A smooth kind of cartridge paper used for making cards. Knight. LITUATE Lit"u*ate, a. Etym: [See Lituus.] (Bot.) Defn: Forked, with the points slightly curved outward. LITUIFORM Lit"u*i*form, a. Etym: [Lituus + -form.] Defn: Having the form of a lituus; like a lituite. LITUITE Lit"u*ite, n. Etym: [See Lituus.] (Paleon.) Defn: Any species of ammonites of the genus Lituites. They are found in the Cretaceous formation. LITURATE Lit"u*rate, a. Etym: [L. lituratus, p. p. of liturare to erase, fr. litura a blur.] 1. (Zoöl.) Defn: Having indistinct spots, paler at their margins. 2. (Bot.) Defn: Spotted, as if from abrasions of the surface. LITURGIC; LITURGICAL Li*tur"gic, Li*tur"gic*al,Etym: [Gr. liturgique.] Defn: Pertaining to, of or the nature of, a liturgy; of or pertaining to public prayer and worship. T. Warton. LITURGICALLY Li*tur"gic*al*ly, adv. Defn: In the manner of a liturgy. LITURGICS Li*tur"gics, n. Defn: The science of worship; history, doctrine, and interpretation of liturgies. LITURGIOLOGIST Li*tur`gi*ol"o*gist, n. Defn: One versed in liturgiology. LITURGIOLOGY Li*tur`gi*ol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Liturgy + -logy.] Defn: The science treating of liturgical matters; a treatise on, or description of, liturgies. Shipley. LITURGIST Lit"ur*gist, n. Defn: One who favors or adheres strictly to a liturgy. Milton. LITURGY Lit"ur*gy, n.; pl. Liturgies. Etym: [F. liturgie, LL. liturgia, Gr. Lay, a., and Work.] Defn: An established formula for public worship, or the entire ritual for public worship in a church which uses prescribed forms; a formulary for public prayer or devotion. In the Roman Catholic Church it includes all forms and services in any language, in any part of the world, for the celebration of Mass. LITUUS Lit"u*us, n.; pl. Litui. Etym: [L.] 1. (Rom. Antig.) (a) A curved staff used by the augurs in quartering the heavens. (b) An instrument of martial music; a kind of trumpet of a somewhat curved form and shrill note. 2. (Math.) Defn: A spiral whose polar equation is r2th = a; that is, a curve the square of whose radius vector varies inversely as the angle which the radius vector makes with a given line. LIVABLE Liv"a*ble, a. 1. Such as can be lived. 2. Such as in pleasant to live in; fit or suitable to live in. [Colloq.] A more delightful or livable region is not easily to be found. T. Arnold. LIVE Live, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Lived; p. pr. & vb. n. Living.] Etym: [OE. liven, livien, AS. libban, lifian; akin to OS. libbian, D. leven, G. leben, OHG. lebn, Dan. leve, Sw. lefva, Icel. lifa to live, to be left, to remain, Goth. liban to live; akin to E. leave to forsake, and life, Gr. lip to anoint, smear; -- the first sense prob. was, to cleave to, stick to; hence, to remain, stay; and hence, to live.] 1. To be alive; to have life; to have, as an animal or a plant, the capacity of assimilating matter as food, and to be dependent on such assimilation for a continuance of existence; as, animals and plants that live to a great age are long in reaching maturity. Thus saith the Lord God unto these bones; Behold, I will . . . lay sinews upon you, and will bring up flesh upon you, and cover you with skin, and put breath in you, and ye shall live. Ezek. xxxvii. 5, 6. 2. To pass one's time; to pass life or time in a certain manner, as to habits, conduct, or circumstances; as, to live in ease or affluence; to live happily or usefully. O death, how bitter is the remembrance of thee to a man that liveth at rest in his possessions! Ecclus. xli. 1. 3. To make one's abiding place or home; to abide; to dwell; to reside. Jacob lived in the land of Egypt seventeen years. Gen. xlvii. 28. 4. To be or continue in existence; to exist; to remain; to be permanent; to last; -- said of inanimate objects, ideas, etc. Men's evil manners live in brass; their virtues We write in water. Shak. 5. To enjoy or make the most of life; to be in a state of happiness. What greater curse could envious fortune give Than just to die when I began to live Dryden. 6. To feed; to subsist; to be nourished or supported; -- with on; as, horses live on grass and grain. 7. To have a spiritual existence; to be quickened, nourished, and actuated by divine influence or faith. The just shall live by faith. Gal. iii. ll. 8. To be maintained in life; to acquire a livelihood; to subsist; -- with on or by; as, to live on spoils. Those who live by labor. Sir W. Temple. 9. To outlast danger; to float; -- said of a ship, boat, etc.; as, no ship could live in such a storm. A strong mast that lived upon the sea. Shak. To live out, to be at service; to live away