[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

been received as a gift, in order to ascertain his age; -- hence, to accept favors in a critical and thankless spirit. Lowell. -- To take horse. (a) To set out on horseback. Macaulay. (b) To be covered, as a mare. (c) See definition 7 (above). HORSE Horse, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Horsed; p. pr. & vb. n. Horsing.] Etym: [AS. horsion.] 1. To provide with a horse, or with horses; to mount on, or as on, a horse. "Being better horsed, outrode me." Shak. 2. To sit astride of; to bestride. Shak. 3. To cover, as a mare; -- said of the male. 4. To take or carry on the back; as, the keeper, horsing a deer. S. Butler. 5. To place on the back of another, or on a wooden horse, etc., to be flogged; to subject to such punishment. HORSE Horse, v. i. Defn: To get on horseback. [Obs.] Shelton. HORSEBACK Horse"back`, n. 1. The back of a horse. 2. An extended ridge of sand, gravel, and bowlders, in a half- stratified condition. Agassiz. On horseback, on the back of a horse; mounted or riding on a horse or horses; in the saddle. The long journey was to be performed on horseback. Prescott. HORSE-CHESTNUT Horse`-chest"nut, n. (Bot.) (a) The large nutlike seed of a species of Æsculus (Æ. Hippocastanum), formerly ground, and fed to horses, whence the name. (b) The tree itself, which was brought from Constantinople in the beginning of the sixteenth century, and is now common in the temperate zones of both hemispheres. The native American species are called buckeyes. HORSE-DRENCH Horse"-drench`, n. 1. A dose of physic for a horse. Shak. 2. The appliance by which the dose is administred. HORSEFISH Horse"fish`, n. (Zoöl.) (a) The moonfish (Selene setipinnis). (b) The sauger. HORSEFLESH Horse"flesh`, n. 1. The flesh of horses. The Chinese eat horseflesh at this day. Bacon. 2. Horses, generally; the qualities of a horse; as, he is a judge of horseflesh. [Colloq.] Horseflesh ore (Min.), a miner's name for bornite, in allusion to its peculiar reddish color on fresh facture. HORSEFLY Horse"fly`, n.; pl. Horseflies (. 1. (Zoöl.) Defn: Any dipterous fly of the family Tabanidæ, that stings horses, and sucks their blood. Note: Of these flies there are numerous species, both in Europe and America. They have a large proboscis with four sharp lancets for piercing the skin. Called also breeze fly. See Illust. under Diptera, and Breeze fly. 2. (Zoöl.) Defn: The horse tick or forest fly (Hippobosca). HORSEFOOT Horse"foot`, n.; pl. Horsefeet. 1. (Bot.) Defn: The coltsfoot. 2. (Zoöl.) Defn: The Limulus or horseshoe crab. HORSE GUARDS Horse" Guards`. (Mil.) Defn: A body of cavalry so called; esp., a British regiment, called the Royal Horse Guards, which furnishes guards of state for the sovereign. The Horse Guards, a name given to the former headquarters of the commander in chief of the British army, at Whitehall in London. HORSEHAIR Horse"hair`, n. Defn: A hair of a horse, especially one from the mane or tail; the hairs of the mane or tail taken collectively; a fabric or tuft made of such hairs. Horsehair worm (Zoöl.), the hair worm or gordius. HORSEHEAD Horse"head`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: The silver moonfish (Selene vomer). HORSEHIDE Horse"hide`, n. 1. The hide of a horse. 2. Leather made of the hide of a horse. HORSE-JOCKEY Horse"-jock`ey, n. 1. A professional rider and trainer of race horses. 2. A trainer and dealer in horses. HORSEKNOP Horse"knop`, n. (Bot.) Defn: Knapweed. HORSELAUGH Horse"laugh`, n. Defn: A loud, boisterous laugh; a guffaw. Pope. HORSE-LEECH Horse"-leech`, n. 1. (Zoöl.) Defn: A large blood-sucking leech (Hæmopsis vorax), of Europe and Northern Africa. It attacks the lips and mouths of horses. 2. A farrier; a veterinary surgeon. HORSE-LEECHERY Horse"-leech`er*y, n. Defn: The business of a farrier; especially, the art of curing the diseases of horses. HORSELESS Horse"less, a. Defn: Being without a horse; specif., not requiring a horse; -- said of certain vehicles in which horse power has been replaced by electricity, steam, etc.; as, a horseless carriage or truck. HORSE-LITTER Horse"-lit`ter, n. Defn: A carriage hung on poles, and borne by and between two horses. Milton. HORSEMAN Horse"man, n.; pl. Horsemen (. 1. A rider on horseback; one skilled in the management of horses; a mounted man. 2. (Mil.) Defn: A mounted soldier; a cavalryman. 3. (Zoöl.) (a) A land crab of the genus Ocypoda, living on the coast of Brazil and the West Indies, noted for running very swiftly. (b) A West Indian fish of the genus Eques, as the light-horseman (E. lanceolatus). HORSEMANSHIP Horse"man*ship, n. Defn: The act or art of riding, and of training and managing horses; manege. HORSEMINT Horse"mint`, n. (Bot.) (a) A coarse American plant of the Mint family (Monarda punctata). (b) In England, the wild mint (Mentha sylvestris). HORSENAIL Horse"nail`, n. Defn: A thin, pointed nail, with a heavy flaring head, for securing a horsehoe to the hoof; a horsehoe nail. HORSEPLAY Horse"play`, n. Defn: Rude, boisterous play. Too much given to horseplay in his raillery. Dryden. HORSEPOND Horse"pond`, n. Defn: A pond for watering horses. HORSE POWER Horse" pow`er Defn: . 1. The power which a horse exerts. 2. (Mach.) Defn: A unit of power, used in stating the power required to drive machinery, and in estimating the capabilities of animals or steam engines and other prime movers for doing work. It is the power required for the performance of work at the rate of 33,000 English units of work per minute; hence, it is the power that must be exerted in lifting 33,000 pounds at the rate of one foot per minute, or 550 pounds at the rate of one foot per second, or 55 pounds at the rate of ten feet per second, etc. Note: The power of a draught horse, of average strength, working eight hours per day, is about four fifths of a standard horse power. Brake horse power, the net effective power of a prime mover, as a steam engine, water wheel, etc., in horse powers, as shown by a friction brake. See Friction brake, under Friction. -- Indicated horse power, the power exerted in the cylinder of an engine, stated in horse powers, estimated from the diameter and speed of the piston, and the mean effective pressure upon it as shown by an indicator. See Indicator. -- Nominal horse power (Steam Engine), a term still sometimes used in England to express certain proportions of cylinder, but having no value as a standard of measurement. 3. A machine worked by a horse, for driving other machinery; a horse motor. HORSE-RADISH Horse"-rad`ish, n. (Bot.) Defn: A plant of the genus Nasturtium (N. Armoracia), allied to scurvy grass, having a root of a pungent taste, much used, when grated, as a condiment and in medicine. Gray. Horse-radish tree. (Bot.) See Moringa. HORSERAKE Horse"rake`, n. Defn: A rake drawn by a horse. HORSESHOE Horse"shoe`, n. 1. A shoe for horses, consisting of a narrow plate of iron in form somewhat like the letter U, nailed to a horse's hoof. 2. Anything shaped like a horsehoe crab. 3. (Zoöl.) Defn: The Limulus of horsehoe crab. Horsehoe head (Med.), an old name for the condition of the skull in children, in which the sutures are too open, the coronal suture presenting the form of a horsehoe. Dunglison. -- Horsehoe magnet, an artificial magnet in the form of a horsehoe. -- Horsehoe nail. See Horsenail. -- Horsehoe nose (Zoöl.), a bat of the genus Rhinolophus, having a nasal fold of skin shaped like a horsehoe. HORSESHOEING Horse"shoe`ing, n. Defn: The act or employment of shoeing horses. HORSESHOER Horse"sho`er, n. Defn: One who shoes horses. HORSETAIL Horse"tail`, n. 1. (Bot.) Defn: A leafless plant, with hollow and rushlike stems. It is of the genus Equisetum, and is allied to the ferns. See Illust. of Equisetum. 2. A Turkish standard, denoting rank. Note: Commanders are distinguished by the number of horsetails carried before them. Thus, the sultan has seven, the grand vizier five, and the pashas three, two, or one. Shrubby horsetail. (Bot.) See Joint-fir. HORSEWEED Horse"weed`, n. (Bot.) Defn: A composite plant (Erigeron Canadensis), which is a common weed. HORSEWHIP Horse"whip`, n. Defn: A whip for horses. HORSEWHIP Horse"whip`, v. t. Defn: To flog or chastise with a horsewhip. HORSEWOMAN Horse"wom`an, n.; pl. Horsewomen (. Defn: A woman who rides on horseback. HORSEWOOD Horse"wood`, n. (Bot.) Defn: A West Indian tree (Calliandra latifolia) with showy, crimson blossoms. HORSEWORM Horse"worm`, n. Defn: The larva of a botfly. HORSINESS Hors"i*ness, n. 1. The condition or quality of being a horse; that which pertains to a horse. Tennyson. 2. Fondness for, or interest in, horses. HORSLY Hors"ly, a. Defn: Horselike. [Obs.] Chaucer. HORSY Hors"y, a. Defn: Pertaining to, or suggestive of, a horse, or of horse racing; as, horsy manners; garments of fantastically horsy fashions. [Colloq.] HORTATION Hor*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. hortatio, fr. hortari to incite, exhort, fr. hori to urge.] Defn: The act of exhorting, inciting, or