[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

at the north and south points of the horizon, used by astrologers in noting the positions of the heavenly bodies, and casting horoscopes or nativities. The houses were regarded as fixed in respect to the horizon, and numbered from the one at the eastern horizon, called the ascendant, first house, or house of life, downward, or in the direction of the earth's revolution, the stars and planets passing through them in the reverse order every twenty- four hours. 9. A square on a chessboard, regarded as the proper place of a piece. 10. An audience; an assembly of hearers, as at a lecture, a theater, etc.; as, a thin or a full house. 11. The body, as the habitation of the soul. This mortal house I'll ruin, Do Cæsar what he can. Shak. 12. [With an adj., as narrow, dark, etc.] Defn: The grave. "The narrow house." Bryant. Note: House is much used adjectively and as the first element of compounds. The sense is usually obvious; as, house cricket, housemaid, house painter, housework. House ant (Zoöl.), a very small, yellowish brown ant (Myrmica molesta), which often infests houses, and sometimes becomes a great pest. -- House of bishops (Prot. Epis. Ch.), one of the two bodies composing a general convertion, the other being House of Clerical and Lay Deputies. -- House boat, a covered boat used as a dwelling. -- House of call, a place, usually a public house, where journeymen connected with a particular trade assemble when out of work, ready for the call of employers. [Eng.] Simonds. -- House car (Railroad), a freight car with inclosing sides and a roof; a box car. -- House of correction. See Correction. -- House cricket (Zoöl.), a European cricket (Gryllus domesticus), which frequently lives in houses, between the bricks of chimneys and fireplaces. It is noted for the loud chirping or stridulation of the males. -- House dog, a dog kept in or about a dwelling house. -- House finch (Zoöl.), the burion. -- House flag, a flag denoting the commercial house to which a merchant vessel belongs. -- House fly (Zoöl.), a common fly (esp. Musca domestica), which infests houses both in Europe and America. Its larva is a maggot which lives in decaying substances or excrement, about sink drains, etc. -- House of God, a temple or church. -- House of ill fame. See Ill fame under Ill, a. -- House martin (Zoöl.), a common European swallow (Hirundo urbica). It has feathered feet, and builds its nests of mud against the walls of buildings. Called also house swallow, and window martin. -- House mouse (Zoöl.), the common mouse (Mus musculus). -- House physician, the resident medical adviser of a hospital or other public institution. -- House snake (Zoöl.), the milk snake. -- House sparrow (Zoöl.), the common European sparrow (Passer domesticus). It has recently been introduced into America, where it has become very abundant, esp. in cities. Called also thatch sparrow. -- House spider (Zoöl.), any spider which habitually lives in houses. Among the most common species are Theridium tepidariorum and Tegenaria domestica. -- House surgeon, the resident surgeon of a hospital. -- House wren (Zoöl.), the common wren of the Eastern United States (Troglodytes aëdon). It is common about houses and in gardens, and is noted for its vivacity, and loud musical notes. See Wren. -- Religious house, a monastery or convent. -- The White House, the official residence of the President of the United States; -- hence, colloquially, the office of President. -- To bring down the house. See under Bring. -- To keep house, to maintain an independent domestic establishment. -- To keep open house, to entertain friends at all times. Syn. -- Dwelling; residence; abode. See Tenement. HOUSE House, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Housed; p. pr. & vb. n. Housing.] Etym: [AS. h.] 1. To take or put into a house; to shelter under a roof; to cover from the inclemencies of the weather; to protect by covering; as, to house one's family in a comfortable home; to house farming utensils; to house cattle. At length have housed me in a humble shed. Young. House your choicest carnations, or rather set them under a penthouse. Evelyn. 2. To drive to a shelter. Shak. 3. To admit to residence; to harbor. Palladius wished him to house all the Helots. Sir P. Sidney. 4. To deposit and cover, as in the grave. Sandys. 5. (Naut.) Defn: To stow in a safe place; to take down and make safe; as, to house the upper spars. HOUSE House, v. i. 1. To take shelter or lodging; to abide to dwell; to lodge. You shall not house with me. Shak. 2. (Astrol.) Defn: To have a position in one of the houses. See House, n., 8. "Where Saturn houses." Dryden. HOUSEBOTE House"bote`, n. Etym: [House + bote.] (Law) Defn: Wood allowed to a tenant for repairing the house and for fuel. This latter is often called firebote. See Bote. HOUSEBREAKER House"break`er, n. Defn: One who is guilty of the crime of housebreaking. HOUSEBREAKING House"break`ing, n. Defn: The act of breaking open and entering, with a felonious purpose, the dwelling house of another, whether done by day or night. See Burglary, and To break a house, under Break. HOUSEBUILDER House"build`er, n. Defn: One whose business is to build houses; a housewright. HOUSECARL House"carl`, n. Etym: [OE. huscarle. See House, and Carl.] (Eng. Archæol.) Defn: A household servant; also, one of the bodyguard of King Canute. HOUSEHOLD House"hold`, n. 1. Those who dwell under the same roof and compose a family. And calls, without affecting airs, His household twice a day to prayers. Swift. 2. A line of ancestory; a race or house. [Obs.] Shak. HOUSEHOLD House"hold`, a. Defn: Belonging to the house and family; domestic; as, household furniture; household affairs. Household bread, bread made in the house for common use; hence, bread that is not of the finest quality. [Obs.] -- Household gods (Rom. Antiq.), the gods presiding over the house and family; the Lares and Penates; hence, all objects endeared by association with home. -- Household troops, troops appointed to attend and guard the sovereign or his residence. HOUSEHOLDER House"hold`er, n. Defn: The master or head of a family; one who occupies a house with his family. Towns in which almost every householder was an English Protestant. Macaulay. Compound householder. See Compound, a. HOUSEKEEPER House"keep`er, n. 1. One who occupies a house with his family; a householder; the master or mistress of a family. Locke. 2. One who does, or oversees, the work of keeping house; as, his wife is a good housekeeper; often, a woman hired to superintend the servants of a household and manage the ordinary domestic affairs. 3. One who exercises hospitality, or has plentiful and hospitable household. [Obs.] Sir H. Wotton. 4. One who keeps or stays much at home. [R.] You are manifest housekeeper. Shak. 5. A house dog. [Obs.] Shak. HOUSEKEEPING House"keep`ing, n. 1. The state of being occupying a dwelling house as a householder. 2. Care of domestic concerns; management of a house and home affairs. 3. Hospitality; a liberal and hospitable table; a supply of provisions. [Obs.] Tell me, softly and hastly, what's in the pantry Small housekeeping enough, said Phoebe. Sir W. Scott. HOUSEKEEPING House"keep`ing, a. Defn: Domestic; used in a family; as, housekeeping commodities. HOUSEL Hou"sel, n. Etym: [OE. housel, husel, AS. h; akin to Icel. h, Goth. hunsl a sacrifice.] Defn: The eucharist. [Archaic] Rom. of R. Tennyson. HOUSEL Hou"sel, v. t. Etym: [AS. h.] Defn: To administer the eucharist to. [Archaic] Chaucer. HOUSELEEK House"leek`, n. Etym: [House + leek.] (Bot.) Defn: A succulent plant of the genus Sempervivum (S. tectorum), originally a native of subalpine Europe, but now found very generally on old walls and roofs. It is very tenacious of life under drought and heat; -- called also ayegreen. HOUSELESS House"less, a. Defn: Destitute of the shelter of a house; shelterless; homeless; as, a houseless wanderer. HOUSELESSNESS House"less*ness, n. Defn: The state of being houseless. HOUSELINE House"line`, n. (Naut.) Defn: A small line of three strands used for seizing; -- called also housing. Totten. HOUSELING House"ling`, a. Defn: Same as Housling. HOUSEMAID House"maid`, n. Defn: A female servant employed to do housework, esp. to take care of the rooms. Housemaid's knee (Med.), a swelling over the knee, due to an enlargement of the bursa in the front of the kneepan; -- so called because frequently occurring in servant girls who work upon their knees. HOUSEMATE House"mate`, n. Defn: One who dwells in the same house with another. R. Browning. HOUSEROOM House"room`, n. Defn: Room or place in a house; as, to give any one houseroom. HOUSEWARMING House"warm`ing, n. Defn: A feast or merry-making made by or for a family or business firm on taking possession of a new house or premises. Johnson. HOUSEWIFE House"wife`, n. Etym: [House + wife. Cf. Hussy.] 1. The wife of a householder; the mistress of a family; the female head