[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

1. To put into confused motion; to disturb; to agitate. An angel went down at a certain season into the pool, and troubled the water. John v. 4. God looking forth will trouble all his host. Milton. 2. To disturb; to perplex; to afflict; to distress; to grieve; to fret; to annoy; to vex. Now is my soul troubled. John xii. 27. Take the boy to you; he so troubles me 'T is past enduring. Shak. Never trouble yourself about those faults which age will cure. Locke. 3. To give occasion for labor to; -- used in polite phraseology; as, I will not trouble you to deliver the letter. Syn. -- To disturb; perplex; afflict; distress; grieve; harass; annoy; tease; vex; molest. TROUBLE Trou"ble, a. Defn: Troubled; dark; gloomy. [Obs.] "With full trouble cheer." Chaucer. TROUBLE Trou"ble, n. Etym: [F. trouble, OF. troble, truble. See Trouble, v. t.] 1. The state of being troubled; disturbance; agitation; uneasiness; vexation; calamity. Lest the fiend . . . some new trouble raise. Milton. Foul whisperings are abroad; unnatural deeds Do breed unnatural troubles. Shak. 2. That which gives disturbance, annoyance, or vexation; that which afflicts. 3. (Mining) Defn: A fault or interruption in a stratum. To get into trouble, to get into difficulty or danger. [Colloq.] -- To take the trouble, to be at the pains; to exert one's self; to give one's self inconvenience. She never took the trouble to close them. Bryant. Syn. -- Affliction; disturbance; perplexity; annoyance; molestation; vexation; inconvenience; calamity; misfortune; adversity; embarrassment; anxiety; sorrow; misery. TROUBLER Trou"bler, n. Defn: One who troubles or disturbs; one who afflicts or molests; a disturber; as, a troubler of the peace. The rich troublers of the world's repose. Waller. TROUBLESOME Trou"ble*some, a. Defn: Giving trouble or anxiety; vexatious; burdensome; wearisome. This troublesome world. Book of Common Prayer. These troublesome disguises that we wear. Milton. My mother will never be troublesome to me. Pope. Syn. -- Uneasy; vexatious; perplexing; harassing; annoying; disgusting; irksome; afflictive; burdensome; tiresome; wearisome; importunate. -- Trou"ble*some*ly, adv. -- Trou"ble*some*ness, n. TROUBLOUS Trou"blous, a. Defn: Full of trouble; causing trouble. "In doubtful time of troublous need." Byron. A tall ship tossed in troublous seas. Spenser. TROU-DE-LOUP Trou"-de-loup", n.; pl. Trous-de-loup(Etym: [F. trou hole + de of + loup wolf.] (Mil.) Defn: A pit in the form of an inverted cone or pyramid, constructed as an obstacle to the approach of an enemy, and having a pointed stake in the middle. The pits are called also trapholes. TROUGH Trough, n. Etym: [OE. trough, trogh, AS. trog, troh; akin to D., G., & Icel. trog, Sw. tråg, Dan. trug; probably originally meaning, made of wood, and akin to E. tree. Tree, and cf. Trug.] 1. A long, hollow vessel, generally for holding water or other liquid, especially one formed by excavating a log longitudinally on one side; a long tray; also, a wooden channel for conveying water, as to a mill wheel. 2. Any channel, receptacle, or depression, of a long and narrow shape; as, trough between two ridges, etc. Trough gutter (Arch.), a rectangular or V-shaped gutter, usually hung below the eaves of a house. -- Trough of the sea, the depression between two waves. TROUGH-SHELL Trough"-shell`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: Any bivalve shell of the genus Mactra. See Mactra. TROUL Troul, v. t. & i. Defn: See Troll. TROUNCE Trounce, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Trounced; p. pr. & vb. n. Trouncing.] Etym: [F. tronce, tronche, a stump, piece of wood. See Truncheon.] Defn: To punish or beat severely; to whip smartly; to flog; to castigate. [Colloq.] TROUPE Troupe, n. Etym: [F., troop. See Troop.] Defn: A company or troop, especially the company pf performers in a play or an opera. TROUPIAL Troup"i*al, n. Etym: [F. troupiale.] (Zoöl.) Defn: Any one of numerous species of bright-colored American birds belonging to Icterus and allied genera, especially Icterus icterus, a native of the West Indies and South America. Many of the species are called orioles in America. [Written also troopial.] TROUSE Trouse, n. Defn: Trousers. [Obs.] Spenser. TROUSERING Trou"ser*ing, n. Defn: Cloth or material for making trousers. TROUSERS Trou"sers, n. pl. Etym: [OF. trousses breeches worn by pages, from trousse, trosse, a bundle, a truss. See Truss, and cf. Trossers, Trouse.] Defn: A garment worn by men and boys, extending from the waist to the knee or to the ankle, and covering each leg separately. pants; used attrib. in the singular, as a trouser leg; see pant TROUSSE Trousse, n. [F. See Truss; cf. Trousseau.] Defn: A case for small implements; as, a surgeon's trousse. TROUSSEAU Trous`seau", n. Etym: [F., fr. OF. trossel, dim. of trousse a bundle, truss. See Truss.] Defn: The collective lighter equipments or outfit of a bride, including clothes, jewelry, and the like; especially, that which is provided for her by her family. TROUT Trout, n. Etym: [AS. truht, L. tructa, tructus; akin to Gr. 1. (Zoöl.) Defn: Any one of numerous species of fishes belonging to Salmo, Salvelinus, and allied genera of the family Salmonidæ. They are highly esteemed as game fishes and for the quality of their flesh. All the species breed in fresh water, but after spawning many of them descend to the sea if they have an opportunity. Note: The most important European species are the river, or brown, trout (Salmo fario), the salmon trout, and the sewen. The most important American species are the brook, speckled, or red-spotted, trout (Salvelinus fontinalis) of the Northern United States and Canada; the red-spotted trout, or Dolly Varden (see Malma); the lake trout (see Namaycush); the black-spotted, mountain, or silver, trout (Salmo purpuratus); the golden, or rainbow, trout (see under Rainbow); the blueback trout (see Oquassa); and the salmon trout (see under Salmon.) The European trout has been introduced into America. 2. (Zoöl.) Defn: Any one of several species of marine fishes more or less resembling a trout in appearance or habits, but not belonging to the same family, especially the California rock trouts, the common squeteague, and the southern, or spotted, squeteague; -- called also salt-water trout, sea trout, shad trout, and gray trout. See Squeteague, and Rock trout under Rock. Trout perch (Zoöl.), a small fresh-water American fish (Percopsis guttatus), allied to the trout, but resembling a perch in its scales and mouth. TROUTBIRD Trout"bird`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: The American golden plover. [Local, U. S.] TROUT-COLORED Trout"-col`ored, a. Defn: White, with spots of black, bay, or sorrel; as, a trout-colored horse. TROUTLET Trout"let, n. Defn: A little trout; a troutling. Hood. TROUTLING Trout"ling, n. Defn: A little trout; a troutlet. TROUVERE; TROUVEUR Trou`vère", Trou`veur", n. Etym: [F. trouveur, trouvère. See Troubadour.] Defn: One of a school of poets who flourished in Northern France from the eleventh to the fourteenth century. TROVER Tro"ver, n. Etym: [OF. trover, truver, to find, F. trouver; probably originally, to invent or compose (melodies), fr. (assumed) LL. tropare. See Troubadour, Trope, and cf. Contrive, Reirieve, Trouveur.] (Law) (a) The gaining possession of any goods, whether by finding or by other means. (b) An action to recover damages against one who found goods, and would not deliver them to the owner on demand; an action which lies in any case to recover the value of goods wrongfully converted by another to his own use. In this case the finding, though alleged, is an immaterial fact; the injury lies in the conversion. TROW Trow, n. Defn: A boat with an open well amidships. It is used in spearing fish. Knight. TROW Trow, v. i. & t. Etym: [OE. trowen, AS.treówan to trust, believe, fr. treów trust, treówe true, faithful. See True.] Defn: To believe; to trust; to think or suppose. [Archaic] So that ye trow in Christ, and you baptize. Chaucer. A better priest, I trow, there nowhere none is. Chaucer. It never yet was worn, I trow. Tennyson. Note: I trow, or trow alone, was formerly sometimes added to questions to express contemptuous or indignant surprise. What tempest, I trow, threw this whale . . . ashore Shak. What is the matter, trow Shak. TROWEL Trow"el, n. Etym: [OE. truel, OF. truele, F. truelle, LL. truella, L. trulla, dim. of trua a ladle; probably akin to Gr. quirl a stirrer, MHG. twirel, OHG. dwiril, Icel. þvara, AS. þwiril. Cf. Twirl.] 1. A mason's tool, used in spreading and dressing mortar, and breaking bricks to shape them. 2. A gardener's tool, somewhat like a scoop, used in taking up plants, stirring the earth, etc. 3. (Founding) Defn: A tool used for smoothing a mold. Trowel bayonet. See Spade bayonet, under Spade. -- Fish trowel. See Fish slice, under Fish. TROWELED Trow"eled. Defn: Formed with a trowel; smoothed with a trowel; as, troweled stucco, that is, stucco laid on and ready for the reception of paint. [Written also trowelled.] TROWELFUL Trow"el*ful, n.; pl. Trowelfuls (. Defn: As much as a trowel will hold; enough to fill a trowel. TROWL Trowl, n. Defn: See Troll. TROWSED Trowsed, a. Defn: Wearing trousers. [Obs.] TROWSERS Trow"sers, n.