[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

n. 1. A mark indicating the height to which water has risen, or at which it has stood; the usual limit of high or low water. 2. A letter, device, or the like, wrought into paper during the process of manufacture. Note: "The watermark in paper is produced by bending the wires of the mold, or by wires bent into the shape of the required letter or device, and sewed to the surface of the mold; -- it has the effect of making the paper thinner in places. The old makers employed watermarks of an eccentric kind. Those of Caxton and other early printers were an oxhead and star, a collared dog's head, a crown, a shield, a jug, etc. A fool's cap and bells, employed as a watermark, gave the name to foolscap paper; a postman's horn, such as was formerly in use, gave the name to post paper." Tomlinson. 3. (Naut.) Defn: See Water line, 2. [R.] WATER MEADOW Wa"ter mead"ow. (Agric.) Defn: A meadow, or piece of low, flat land, capable of being kept in a state of fertility by being overflowed with water from some adjoining river or stream. WATER MEASURE Wa"ter meas"ure. Defn: A measure formerly used for articles brought by water, as coals, oysters, etc. The water-measure bushel was three gallons larger than the Winchester bushel. Cowell. WATER MEASURER Wa"ter meas"ur*er. (Zoöl.) Defn: Any one of numerous species of water; the skater. See Skater, n., 2. WATERMELON Wa"ter*mel`on, n. (Bot.) Defn: The very large ovoid or roundish fruit of a cucurbitaceous plant (Citrullus vulgaris) of many varieties; also, the plant itself. The fruit sometimes weighs many pounds; its pulp is usually pink in color, and full of a sweet watery juice. It is a native of tropical Africa, but is now cultivated in many countries. See Illust. of Melon. WATER METER Wa"ter me"ter. Defn: A contrivance for measuring a supply of water delivered or received for any purpose, as from a street main. WATER MILFOIL Wa"ter mil"foil. (Bot.) Defn: Any plant of the genus Myriophyllum, aquatic herbs with whorled leaves, the submersed ones pinnately parted into capillary divisions. WATER MILL Wa"ter mill`. Defn: A mill whose machinery is moved by water; -- distinguished from a windmill, and a steam mill. WATER MINT Wa"ter mint`. Defn: A kind of mint (Mentha aquatica) growing in wet places, and sometimes having a perfume resembling bergamot. WATER MITE Wa"ter mite`. (Zoöl.) Defn: Any of numerous species of aquatic mites belonging to Hydrachna and allied genera of the family Hydrachnidæ, usually having the legs fringed and adapted for swimming. They are often red or red and black in color, and while young are parasites of fresh-water insects and mussels. Called also water tick, and water spider. WATER MOCCASIN Wa"ter moc"ca*sin. (Zoöl.) Defn: A venomous North American snake (Ancistrodon piscivorus) allied to the rattlesnake but destitute of a rattle. It lives in or about pools and ponds, and feeds largely of fishes. Called also water snake, water adder, water viper. WATER MOLE Wa"ter mole`. (Zoöl.) (a) The shrew mole. See under Shrew. (b) The duck mole. See under Duck. WATER MONITOR Wa"ter mon"i*tor. (Zoöl.) Defn: A very large lizard (Varanaus salvator) native of India. It frequents the borders of streams and swims actively. It becomes five or six feet long. Called also two-banded monitor, and kabaragoya. The name is also applied to other aquatic monitors. WATER MONKEY Water monkey. Defn: A jar or bottle, as of porous earthenware, in which water is cooled by evaporation. WATER MOTOR Wa"ter mo"tor. 1. A water engine. 2. A water wheel; especially, a small water wheel driven by water from a street main. WATER MOUSE Wa"ter mouse`. (Zoöl.) Defn: Any one of several species of mice belonging to the genus Hydromys, native of Australia and Tasmania. Their hind legs are strong and their toes partially webbed. They live on the borders of streams, and swim well. They are remarkable as being the only rodents found in Australia. WATER MURRAIN Wa"ter mur"rain. Defn: A kind of murrain affecting cattle. Crabb. WATER NEWT Wa"ter newt`. (Zoöl.) Defn: Any one of numerous species of aquatic salamanders; a triton. WATER NYMPH Wa"ter nymph`. 1. (Myth.) Defn: A goddess of any stream or other body of water, whether one of the Naiads, Nereids, or Oceanides. 2. (Bot.) Defn: A water lily (Nymphæa). WATER OAT Wa"ter oat`. Defn: Indian rice. See under Rice. WATER OPOSSUM Wa"ter o*pos"sum. (Zoöl.) Defn: See Yapock, and the Note under Opossum. WATER ORDEAL Wa"ter or"de*al. Defn: Same as Ordeal by water. See the Note under Ordeal, n., 1. WATER OUSEL; WATER OUZEL Wa"ter ou"sel, Wa"ter ou"zel. (Zoöl.) Defn: Any one of several species of small insessorial birds of the genus Cinclus (or Hydrobates), especially the European water ousel (C. aquaticus), and the American water ousel (C. Mexicanus). These birds live about the water, and are in the habit of walking on the bottom of streams beneath the water in search of food. WATER PARSNIP Wa"ter pars"nip. (Bot.) Defn: Any plant of the aquatic umbelliferous genus Sium, poisonous herbs with pinnate or dissected leaves and small white flowers. WATER PARTING Water parting. (Phys. Geog.) Defn: A summit from the opposite sides of which rain waters flow to different streams; a line separating the drainage districts of two streams or coasts; a divide. WATER PARTRIDGE Wa"ter par"tridge. (Zoöl.) Defn: The ruddy duck. [Local, U. S.] WATER PENNYWORT Wa"ter pen"ny*wort`. (Bot.) Defn: Marsh pennywort. See under Marsh. WATER PEPPER Wa"ter pep"per. (Bot.) (a) Smartweed. (b) Waterwort. WATER PHEASANT Wa"ter pheas"ant. (Zoöl.) (a) The pintail. See Pintail, n., 1. (b) The goosander. (c) The hooded merganser. WATER PIET Wa"ter pi"et. (Zoöl.) Defn: The water ousel. WATER PIG Wa"ter pig`. 1. (Zoöl.) Defn: The capybara. 2. (Zoöl.) Defn: The gourami. WATER PILLAR Wa"ter pil"lar. Defn: A waterspout. [Obs.] WATER PIMPERNEL Wa"ter pim"per*nel. (Bot.) Defn: A small white-flowered shrub; brookweed. WATER PIPE Wa"ter pipe. Defn: A pipe for conveying water. WATER PITCHER Wa"ter pitch"er. 1. A pitcher for water. 2. (Bot.) Defn: One of a family of plants having pitcher-shaped leaves. The sidesaddle flower (Sarracenia purpurea) is the type. WATER PLANT Wa"ter plant`. Defn: A plant that grows in water; an aquatic plant. WATER PLANTAIN Wa"ter plan"tain. (Bot.) Defn: A kind of plant with acrid leaves. See under 2d Plantain. WATER PLATE Wa"ter plate`. Defn: A plate heated by hot water contained in a double bottom or jacket. Knight. WATER POA Wa"ter po"a. (Bot.) Defn: Meadow reed grass. See under Reed. WATER POCKET Water pocket. Defn: A water hole in the bed of an intermittent stream, esp. the bowl at the foot of a cliff over which the stream leaps when in the flood stage. [Western U. S.] WATER POISE Wa"ter poise`. Defn: A hydrometer. WATER PORE Wa"ter pore` 1. (Zoöl.) Defn: A pore by which the water tubes of various invertebrates open externally. 2. (Bot.) Defn: One of certain minute pores in the leaves of some plants. They are without true guardian cells, but in other respects closely resemble ordinary stomata. Goodale. WATERPOT Wa"ter*pot`, n. Defn: A vessel for holding or conveying water, or for sprinkling water on cloth, plants, etc. WATER POWER Wa"ter pow"er. 1. The power of water employed to move machinery, etc. 2. A fall of water which may be used to drive machinery; a site for a water mill; a water privilege. WATER POX Wa"ter pox`. (Med.) Defn: A variety of chicken pox, or varicella. Dunglison. WATER PRIVILEGE Wa"ter priv"i*lege. Defn: The advantage of using water as a mechanical power; also, the place where water is, or may be, so used. See under Privilege. WATERPROOF Wa"ter*proof`, a. Defn: Proof against penetration or permeation by water; impervious to water; as, a waterproof garment; a waterproof roof. WATERPROOF Wa"ter*proof`, n. 1. A substance or preparation for rendering cloth, leather, etc., impervious to water. 2. Cloth made waterproof, or any article made of such cloth, or of other waterproof material, as rubber; esp., an outer garment made of such material. WATERPROOF Wa"ter*proof`, v. t. Defn: To render impervious to water, as cloth, leather, etc. WATERPROOFING Wa"ter*proof`ing, n. 1. The act or process of making waterproof. 2. Same as Waterproof, n., 1. WATER PURSLANE Wa"ter purs"lane. (Bot.) Defn: See under Purslane. WATER QUALM Wa"ter qualm`. (Med.) Defn: See Water brash, under Brash. WATER RABBIT Wa"ter rab"bit. (Zoöl.) Defn: See Water hare. WATER RADISH Wa"ter rad"ish. (Bot.) Defn: A coarse yellow-flowered plant (Nasturtium amphibium) related to the water cress and to the horse-radish. WATER RAIL Wa"ter rail`. (Zoöl.) Defn: Any one of numerous species of rails of the genus Rallus, as the common European species (Rallus aquaticus). See Illust. of Rail. WATER RAM Wa"ter ram`. Defn: An hydraulic ram. WATER RAT Wa"ter rat`. 1. (Zoöl.) (a) The water vole. See under Vole. (b) The muskrat. (c) The beaver rat. See under Beaver. 2. A thief on the water; a pirate. WATER RATE Wa"ter rate`. Defn: A rate or tax for a supply of water. WATER RATTLE; WATER RATTLER Wa"ter rat"tle or