[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #33642]

she thought. But then: Where could I go if I did go out? Suppose they come for me and I'm gone? She phoned for breakfast. The guard stood by while it was brought in. To keep me, she thought, from talking to the waiter. By noon she still had received no word from the government. She was growing annoyed. * * * * * It was after two o'clock when the colonel--the same one who had met them at the airport last night--came for her. "Sorry to keep you so long," he said. "They're ready to see you now." "I'm ready." "We're going over to the Pentagon." "Let's go." They stopped to pick up Walt. He had gotten a razor from somewhere; the stubble on his face was gone. His skin was smooth and boyish. He was dressed in a single breasted, brown suit. His white shirt was open at the neck. Julia's heart caught in her throat with pride when she saw him. She blushed. "He's been pacing the floor for the last hour," the guard said. "We're going to talk to some government official," Julia said. She smiled up at him. "How do you feel, Walt?" "I'm fine. Fine. Nervous. But I feel fine." "They're waiting," the colonel said. "We better hurry." Julia took Walt's hand. "It's all right. You don't need to be afraid." "I'm not afraid," he said. The same olive drab car was waiting for them outside the hotel. They got in--the colonel in front with the driver, Walt and Julia in back. The car moved into Washington traffic. Bleak, harsh winter lay over the town; the very air seemed weary and exhausted. Julia stared out the window at the passing buildings. The invasion, she thought. Flying saucers settling down upon such a commonplace, solid scene as this. Terrified faces in the streets. Crys. The whine of a police car. An air raid warning, wailing like a lost night express. Brick and cement buckling and exploding. Walls crashing. Smoke billowing up. The helpless, ironic chuckle of a machine gun seeking a target. The drone of a plane.... Suppose the government won't believe our story after all! she thought. "You're going to help us all you can, aren't you, Walt?" she whispered. Her fingers plucked nervously at her dress. "This morning, I had a long talk with the man at my door. I'll help you all I can. He'd never even heard of Lyria; he--" The colonel swiveled his head. "We consulted with the President this morning." Julia felt herself grow tense. "Yes?" "He instructed us to have the two of you interviewed by some of the best authorities we could round up on such short notice. You will be required to demonstrate this ability you seem to have to teleport objects." "I'll do everything I can." The colonel grunted and turned back to watching the road. The Tidal Basin lay to one side of the car; the Washington Channel to the other. Off the highway, the rotunda dome of the white marble Jefferson Memorial glistened in the weak sunlight; the cherry trees around it were naked with winter. Julia listened to her own breathing; she forced herself to relax. I've got to convince them, she thought. In spite of her superiority, she felt like a little girl venturing into a big, unfamiliar world. Shortly, the car drew up at the huge Pentagon building. Inside it, army men--officers and enlisted men--were scurrying about, up and down ramps, in and out of the endless maze of corridors. There was a brisk hum of voices; it was like a giant bee hive. The high heeled shoes of female personnel chattered efficiently from room to room. "Stay close," the colonel said. "It's easy to get lost." * * * * * All the noises of the building were swallowed up when the colonel closed the office door on the third floor. The elderly female receptionist at the desk looked up. "They're waiting, Colonel Robertson. Go right in." "Right through here," the colonel said. Walt and Julia followed. He opened the door, and they issued into the conference room. Talking broke off; faces swung to confront them. "Gentlemen," the colonel said, "this is the girl, and this--this is the man from the space station." The audience around the table rustled. "You'll sit right here," the colonel told them. He helped Julia to her chair. When they were both seated, the colonel withdrew. Chairs scraped and squeaked. One of the men across from Julia cleared his throat. He was in civilian clothes. He was slightly stooped and partly bald. He wiped his glasses nervously. "We would like a demonstration of your--your, um, um unusual propensities." He adjusted his glasses. The glasses disengaged themselves from his ears and floated toward Julia. Julia stood up and walked through the table toward them. She reached out. Both she and the glasses vanished. One of the general officers made a check mark on his note book. "I'd say our report is substantially correct." The other civilian in the room, a youngish blonde woman, lit another cigarette. The ash tray before her was overflowing. Her fingers were nicotine stained. "Very extraordinary." Julia materialized back in her chair. She replaced the glasses. The conferees began to whisper softly. The blonde nodded her head. She turned to Julia. "About this space station--" "This is Doctor Helen Norvel," one of the general officers told Julia. Dr. Norvel ignored him. "Is there some way we could detect it?" "I'd like to try to explain the nature of the distortion field surrounding it to a physicist." "Dr. Norvel," someone said, "is one of our better experimental physicists." "Oh?" "Gentlemen," Dr. Norvel said, "let me talk to her in the next room while you question this man." The bald civilian said, "Go right ahead, Doctor." The doctor stood up. Lighting another cigarette, she said, "We'll go right in there, if you don't mind." Julia got to her feet. When they had gone, a lieutenant sitting beside the civilian looked up from a sheaf of papers in front of him. "Walt Johnson, isn't it?" Walt gulped. He felt clammy and frightened. "I'm supposed to interrogate you--ask you some questions." "All, all right," Walt said nervously. "Now, Mr. Johnson, if you'll just tell us--take it slowly; take your time--about life on this space station. Any details you can remember will prove helpful. Describe your quarters, the nature of the aliens--anything at all." * * * * * Walt twisted in the seat. He looked around at the waiting faces. A general lit a cigarette. The heating system hummed softly. Walt began to talk. From time to time, someone interrupted him with a question. It seemed to go on forever. "About this focus rod?" "It sends out a, a radiation. Something. I don't understand too well. It's lethal." "What is the radius of destruction?" "I don't know; I don't remember." Pens scribbled. "Please continue," the lieutenant said. Walt's throat grew dry as he talked. Someone got him a drink of water. "Could you estimate the number of mutants in this other compartment?" "I couldn't say. I couldn't swear that there is another compartment." "A hundred? Five hundred?" "I couldn't say." "I see." "About," a general asked, "how much of the total area of the ship would you say your compartment occupied?" On and on. "Let's go over the description of that machine again. Did you ever see this Fierut disassemble any part of it?" Walt was limp and exhausted. His mind was dulled by the effort of concentrating continuously. "Yes." "No." "To understand that...." "I don't know." "No, no more than that.... Please. I'm getting confused." "You've been very helpful, Mr. Johnson," the lieutenant said. "Gentlemen, I'm afraid he's getting a little tired. Shall we postpone further questioning?" "I believe we better. Would you call in Dr. Norvel, please." Walt slumped down in his seat. The conferees whispered among themselves and compared notes. Julia and the doctor came back. "It took longer than I thought," Dr. Norvel said. "I had to teach her quite a bit of math." "What's your opinion?" the bald civilian asked. "I believe her, gentlemen. She has just shown me how to build some electronic equipment. I'll have a picture of that space station for you within two weeks." "That will be all, then, for right now," the civilian said. He nodded at Walt and Julia. "The colonel is waiting to take you back to your hotel." "You're not to talk to anyone about this," one of the generals said. * * * * * Thursday. They came for Walt and Julia at nine o'clock. The hotel was aswarm with the military. "Security measures," the colonel explained as they waited for the elevator. "If any information about this leaks out, the whole country will be thrown into a panic." Julia nodded. "We've evacuated the civilians to another hotel," the colonel said. Two guards with rifles stood at the street doorway. "It's