[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

v. t. Defn: To utter rapidly or indistinctly; to gabble; as, to jabber French. Addison. JABBER Jab"ber, n. Defn: Rapid or incoherent talk, with indistinct utterance; gibberish. Swift. JABBER Jab"ber, n. Defn: One who jabbers. JABBERER Jab"ber*er, n. Defn: One who jabbers. JABBERINGLY Jab"ber*ing*ly, adv. Defn: In a jabbering manner. JABBERMENT Jab"ber*ment, n. Defn: Jabber. [R.] Milton. JABBERNOWL Jab"ber*nowl`, n. Defn: Same as Jobbernowl. JABIRU Jab"i*ru, n. Etym: [Braz. jabirú, jaburú.] (Zoöl.) Defn: One of several large wading birds of the genera Mycteria and Xenorhynchus, allied to the storks in form and habits. Note: The American jabiru (Mycteria Americana) is white, with the head and neck black and nearly bare of feathers. The East Indian and Australian (Xenorhynchus Australis) has the neck, head, and back covered with glossy, dark green feathers, changing on the head to purple. The African jabiru (Mycteria, or Ephippiorhynchus, Senegalensis) has the neck, head, wing coverts, and tail, black, and is called also saddle-billed stork. JABORANDI Jab`o*ran"di, n. (Bot.) Defn: The native name of a South American rutaceous shrub (Pilocarpus pennatifolius). The leaves are used in medicine as an diaphoretic and sialogogue. JABORINE Jab"o*rine, n. Etym: [From Jaborandi.] (Chem.) Defn: An alkaloid found in jaborandi leaves, from which it is extracted as a white amorphous substance. In its action it resembles atropine. JABOT Jab"ot, n. Etym: [F.] 1. Originally, a kind of ruffle worn by men on the bosom of the shirt. 2. An arrangement of lace or tulle, looped ornamentally, and worn by women on the front of the dress. JACAL Ja*cal" (hä*käl"; 239), n. [Amer. Sp., fr. Mex. xacalli.] Defn: In Mexico and the southwestern United States, a kind of plastered house or hut, usually made by planting poles or timber in the ground, filling in between them with screen work or wickerwork, and daubing one or both sides with mud or adobe mortar; also, this method of construction. JACAMAR Jac"a*mar`, n. Etym: [F. jacamar, Braz. jacamarica; cf. Sp. jacamar.] (Zoöl.) Defn: Any one of numerous species of tropical American birds of the genus Galbula and allied genera. They are allied to the kingfishers, but climb on tree trunks like nuthatches, and feed upon insects. Their colors are often brilliant. JACANA Jac"a*na`, n. Etym: [Cf. Sp. jacania.] (Zoöl.) Defn: Any of several wading birds belonging to the genus Jacana and several allied genera, all of which have spurs on the wings. They are able to run about over floating water weeds by means of their very long, spreading toes. Called also surgeon bird. Note: The most common South American species is Jacana spinosa. The East Indian or pheasant jacana (Hydrophasianus chirurgus) is remarkable for having four very long, curved, middle tail feathers. JACARANDA Jac`a*ran"da, n. Etym: [Braz.; cf. Sp. & Pg. jacaranda.] (Bot.) (a) The native Brazilian name for certain leguminous trees, which produce the beautiful woods called king wood, tiger wood, and violet wood. (b) A genus of bignoniaceous Brazilian trees with showy trumpet- shaped flowers. JACARE Jac"a*re`, n. Etym: [Pg. jacaré; of Brazilian origin.] (Zoöl.) Defn: A cayman. See Yacare. JACCHUS Jac"chus, n. Etym: [NL., fr. L. Jacchus a mystic name of Bacchus, Gr. (Zoöl.) Defn: The common marmoset (Hapale vulgaris). Formerly, the name was also applied to other species of the same genus. JACCONET Jac"co*net, n. Defn: See Jaconet. JACENT Ja"cent, a. Etym: [L. jacens, p. pr. of jacere to lie: cf. F. jacent.] Defn: Lying at length; as, the jacent posture. [R.] Sir H. Wotton. JACINTH Ja"cinth, n. Etym: [F. jacinthe, L. hyacinthus. See Hyacinth.] Defn: See Hyacinth. Tennyson. JACK Jack, n. Etym: [Pg. jaca, Malayalam, tsjaka.] (Bot.) Defn: A large tree, the Artocarpus integrifolia, common in the East Indies, closely allied to the breadfruit, from which it differs in having its leaves entire. The fruit is of great size, weighing from thirty to forty pounds, and through its soft fibrous matter are scattered the seeds, which are roasted and eaten. The wood is of a yellow color, fine grain, and rather heavy, and is much used in cabinetwork. It is also used for dyeing a brilliant yellow. [Written also jak.] JACK Jack, n. Etym: [F. Jacques James, L. Jacobus, Gr. Ya 'aq Jacob; prop., seizing by the heel; hence, a supplanter. Cf. Jacobite, Jockey.] 1. A familiar nickname of, or substitute for, John. You are John Rugby, and you are Jack Rugby. Shak. 2. An impertinent or silly fellow; a simpleton; a boor; a clown; also, a servant; a rustic. "Jack fool." Chaucer. Since every Jack became a gentleman, There 's many a gentle person made a Jack. Shak. 3. A popular colloquial name for a sailor; -- called also Jack tar, and Jack afloat. 4. A mechanical contrivance, an auxiliary machine, or a subordinate part of a machine, rendering convenient service, and often supplying the place of a boy or attendant who was commonly called Jack; as: (a) A device to pull off boots. (b) A sawhorse or sawbuck. (c) A machine or contrivance for turning a spit; a smoke jack, or kitchen jack. (b) (Mining) A wooden wedge for separating rocks rent by blasting. (e) (Knitting Machine) A lever for depressing the sinkers which push the loops down on the needles. (f) (Warping Machine) A grating to separate and guide the threads; a heck box. (g) (Spinning) A machine for twisting the sliver as it leaves the carding machine. (h) A compact, portable machine for planing metal. (i) A machine for slicking or pebbling leather. (k) A system of gearing driven by a horse power, for multiplying speed. (l) A hood or other device placed over a chimney or vent pipe, to prevent a back draught. (m) In the harpsichord, an intermediate piece communicating the action of the key to the quill; -- called also hopper. (n) In hunting, the pan or frame holding the fuel of the torch used to attract game at night; also, the light itself. C. Hallock. 5. A portable machine variously constructed, for exerting great pressure, or lifting or moving a heavy body through a small distance. It consists of a lever, screw, rack and pinion, hydraulic press, or any simple combination of mechanical powers, working in a compact pedestal or support and operated by a lever, crank, capstan bar, etc. The name is often given to a jackscrew, which is a kind of jack. 6. The small bowl used as a mark in the game of bowls. Shak. Like an uninstructed bowler who thinks to attain the jack by delivering his bowl straight forward upon it. Sir W. Scott. 7. The male of certain animals, as of the ass. 8. (Zoöl.) (a) A young pike; a pickerel. (b) The jurel. (c) A large, California rock fish (Sebastodes paucispinus); -- called also boccaccio, and mérou. (d) The wall-eyed pike. 9. A drinking measure holding half a pint; also, one holding a quarter of a pint. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 10. (Naut.) (a) A flag, containing only the union, without the fly, usually hoisted on a jack staff at the bowsprit cap; -- called also union jack. The American jack is a small blue flag, with a star for each State. (b) A bar of iron athwart ships at a topgallant masthead, to support a royal mast, and give spread to the royal shrouds; -- called also jack crosstree. R. H. Dana, Jr. 11. The knave of a suit of playing cards. Note: Jack is used adjectively in various senses. It sometimes designates something cut short or diminished in size; as, a jack timber; a jack rafter; a jack arch, etc. Jack arch, an arch of the thickness of one brick. -- Jack back (Brewing & Malt Vinegar Manuf.), a cistern which receives the wort. See under 1st Back. -- Jack block (Naut.), a block fixed in the topgallant or royal rigging, used for raising and lowering light masts and spars. -- Jack boots, boots reaching above the knee; -- worn in the 17 century by soldiers; afterwards by fishermen, etc. -- Jack crosstree. (Naut.) See 10, b, above. -- Jack curlew (Zoöl.), the whimbrel. -- Jack frame. (Cotton Spinning) See 4 (g), above. -- Jack Frost, frost personified as a mischievous person. -- Jack hare, a male hare. Cowper. -- Jack lamp, a lamp for still hunting and camp use. See def. 4 (n.), above. -- Jack plane, a joiner's plane used for coarse work. -- Jack post, one of the posts which support the crank shaft of a deep-well-boring apparatus. -- Jack pot (Poker Playing), the name given to the stakes, contributions to which are made by each player successively, till such a hand is turned as shall take the "pot," which is the sum total of all the bets. -- Jack rabbit (Zoöl.), any one of several species of large American hares, having very large ears and long legs. The California species (Lepus Californicus), and that of Texas and New Mexico (L. callotis), have the tail black above, and the ears black at the tip. They do not become white in