[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

water. -- White lead, hydrated carbonate of lead, obtained as a white, amorphous powder, and much used as an ingredient of white paint. LEAD Lead, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Leaded; p. pr. & vb. n. Leading.] 1. To cover, fill, or affect with lead; as, continuous firing leads the grooves of a rifle. 2. (Print.) Defn: To place leads between the lines of; as, to lead a page; leaded matter. LEAD Lead (led), v. t. [imp. & p. p. Led; p. pr. & vb. n. Leading.] Etym: [OE. leden, AS. l (akin to OS. l, D. leiden, G. leiten,Icel. le, Sw. leda, Dan.lede), properly a causative fr. AS. li to go; akin to OHG. l, Icel. l,Goth. leipan (in comp.). Cf. Lode, Loath.] 1. To guide or conduct with the hand, or by means of some physical contact connection; as, a father leads a child; a jockey leads a horse with a halter; a dog leads a blind man. If a blind man lead a blind man, both fall down in the ditch. Wyclif (Matt. xv. 14.) They thrust him out of the city, and led him unto the brow of the hill. Luke iv. 29. In thy right hand lead with thee The mountain nymph, sweet Liberty. Milton. 2. To guide or conduct in a certain course, or to a certain place or end, by making the way known; to show the way, esp. by going with or going in advance of. Hence, figuratively: To direct; to counsel; to instruct; as, to lead a traveler; to lead a pupil. The Lord went before them by day in a pillar of a cloud, to lead them the way. Ex. xiii. 21. He leadeth me beside the still waters. Ps. xxiii. 2. This thought might lead me through the world's vain mask. Content, though blind, had I no better guide. Milton. 3. To conduct or direct with authority; to have direction or charge of; as, to lead an army, an exploring party, or a search; to lead a political party. Christ took not upon him flesh and blood that he might conquer and rule nations, lead armies, or possess places. South. 4. To go or to be in advance of; to precede; hence, to be foremost or chief among; as, the big sloop led the fleet of yachts; the Guards led the attack; Demosthenes leads the orators of all ages. As Hesperus, that leads the sun his way. Fairfax. And lo ! Ben Adhem's name led all the rest. Leigh Hunt. 5. To draw or direct by influence, whether good or bad; to prevail on; to induce; to entice; to allure; as, to lead one to espouse a righteous cause. He was driven by the necessities of the times, more than led by his own disposition, to any rigor of actions. Eikon Basilike. Silly women, laden with sins,led away by divers lusts. 2 Tim. iii. 6 (Rev. Ver.). 6. To guide or conduct one's self in, through, or along (a certain course); hence, to proceed in the way of; to follow the path or course of; to pass; to spend. Also, to cause (one) to proceed or follow in (a certain course). That we may lead a quiet and peaceable life. 1 Tim. ii. 2. Nor thou with shadowed hint confuse A life that leads melodious days. Tennyson. You remember . . . the life he used to lead his wife and daughter. Dickens. 7. (Cards & Dominoes) Defn: To begin a game, round, or trick, with; as, to lead trumps; the double five was led. To lead astray, to guide in a wrong way, or into error; to seduce from truth or rectitude. -- To lead captive, to carry or bring into captivity. -- To lead the way, to show the way by going in front; to act as guide. Goldsmith. LEAD Lead, v. i. 1. To guide or conduct, as by accompanying, going before, showing, influencing, directing with authority, etc.; to have precedence or preëminence; to be first or chief; -- used in most of the senses of lead, v. t. 2. To tend or reach in a certain direction, or to a certain place; as, the path leads to the mill; gambling leads to other vices. The mountain foot that leads towards Mantua. Shak. To lead off or out, to go first; to begin. LEAD Lead, n. 1. The act of leading or conducting; guidance; direction; as, to take the lead; to be under the lead of another. At the time I speak of, and having a momentary lead, . . . I am sure I did my country important service. Burke. 2. precedence; advance position; also, the measure of precedence; as, the white horse had the lead; a lead of a boat's length, or of half a second. 3. (Cards & Dominoes) Defn: The act or right of playing first in a game or round; the card suit, or piece, so played; as, your partner has the lead. 4. An open way in an ice field. Kane. 5. (Mining) Defn: A lode. 6. (Naut.) Defn: The course of a rope from end to end. 7. (Steam Engine) Defn: The width of port opening which is uncovered by the valve, for the admission or release of steam, at the instant when the piston is at end of its stroke. Note: When used alone it means outside lead, or lead for the admission of steam. Inside lead refers to the release or exhaust. 8. (Civil Engineering) Defn: the distance of haul, as from a cutting to an embankment. 9. (Horology) Defn: The action of a tooth, as a tooth of a wheel, in impelling another tooth or a pallet. Saunier. Lead angle (Steam Engine), the angle which the crank maker with the line of centers, in approaching it, at the instant when the valve opens to admit steam. -- Lead screw (Mach.), the main longitudinal screw of a lathe, which gives the feed motion to the carriage. LEADED Lead"ed, a. 1. Fitted with lead; set in lead; as, leaded windows. 2. (Print.) Defn: Separated by leads, as the lines of a page. LEADEN Lead"en, a. 1. Made of lead; of the nature of lead; as, a leaden ball. 2. Like lead in color, etc. ; as, a leaden sky. 3. Heavy; dull; sluggish. "Leaden slumber." Shak. LEADER Lead"er, n. 1. One who, or that which, leads or conducts; a guide; a conductor. Especially: (a) One who goes first. (b) One having authority to direct; a chief; a commander. (c) (Mus.) A performer who leads a band or choir in music; also, in an orchestra, the principal violinist; the one who plays at the head of the first violins. (d) (Naut.) A block of hard wood pierced with suitable holes for leading ropes in their proper places. (e) (Mach.) The principal wheel in any kind of machinery. [Obs. or R.] G. Francis. (f) A horse placed in advance of others; one of the forward pair of horses. He forgot to pull in his leaders, and they gallop away with him at times. Hare. (g) A pipe for conducting rain water from a roof to a cistern or to the ground; a conductor. (h) (Fishing) Defn: A net for leading fish into a pound, weir, etc. ; also, a line of gut, to which the snell of a fly hook is attached. (i) (Mining) A branch or small vein, not important in itself, but indicating the proximity of a better one. 2. The first, or the principal, editorial article in a newspaper; a leading or main editorial article. 3. (Print.) (a) A type having a dot or short row of dots upon its face. (b) pl. Defn: a row of dots, periods, or hyphens, used in tables of contents, etc., to lead the eye across a space to the right word or number. Syn. -- chief; chieftain; commander. See Chief. LEADERSHIP Lead"er*ship, n. Defn: The office of a leader. LEADHILLITE Lead"hill*ite, n. (Min.) Defn: A mineral of a yellowish or greenish white color, consisting of the sulphate and carbonate of lead; -- so called from having been first found at Leadhills, Scotland. LEADING Lead"ing, a. Defn: Guiding; directing; controlling; foremost; as, a leading motive; a leading man; a leading example. -- Lead"ing*ly, adv. Leading case (Law), a reported decision which has come to be regarded as settling the law of the question involved. Abbott. -- Leading motive Etym: [a translation of G. leitmotif] (Mus.), a guiding theme; in the modern music drama of Wagner, a marked melodic phrase or short passage which always accompanies the reappearance of a certain person, situation, abstract idea, or allusion in the course of the play; a sort of musical label. -- Leading note (Mus.), the seventh note or tone in the ascending major scale; the sensible note. -- Leading question, a question so framed as to guide the person questioned in making his reply. -- Leading strings, strings by which children are supported