[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

at, as a conclusion; to determine as true; to establish; as, to find a verdict; to find a true bill (of indictment) against an accused person. To find his title with some shows of truth. Shak. To find out, to detect (a thief); to discover (a secret) -- to solve or unriddle (a parable or enigma); to understand. "Canst thou by searching find out God" Job. xi. 7. "We do hope to find out all your tricks." Milton. -- To find fault with, to blame; to censure. -- To find one's self, to be; to fare; -- often used in speaking of health; as, how do you find yourself this morning FIND Find, v. i. (Law) Defn: To determine an issue of fact, and to declare such a determination to a court; as, the jury find for the plaintiff. Burrill. FIND Find, n. Defn: Anything found; a discovery of anything valuable; especially, a deposit, discovered by archæologists, of objects of prehistoric or unknown origin. FINDABLE Find"a*ble, a. Defn: Capable of being found; discoverable. Fuller. FINDER Find"er, n. Defn: One who, or that which, finds; specifically (Astron.), a small telescope of low power and large field of view, attached to a larger telescope, for the purpose of finding an object more readily. FIN DE SIECLE Fin` de siè"cle. [F.] Defn: Lit., end of the century; -- mostly used adjectively in English to signify: belonging to, or characteristic of, the close of the 19th century; modern; "up-to-date;" as, fin-de-siècle ideas. FINDFAULT Find"fault`, n. Defn: A censurer or caviler. [Obs.] FINDFAULTING Find"fault`ing, a. Defn: Apt to censure or cavil; faultfinding; captious. [Obs.] Whitlock. FINDING Find"ing, n. 1. That which is found, come upon, or provided; esp. (pl.), that which a journeyman artisan finds or provides for himself; as tools, trimmings, etc. When a man hath been laboring . . . in the deep mines of knowledge, hath furnished out his findings in all their equipage. Milton. 2. Support; maintenance; that which is provided for one; expence; provision. 3. (Law) Defn: The result of a judicial examination or inquiry, especially into some matter of fact; a verdict; as, the finding of a jury. Burrill. After his friends finding and his rent. Chaucer. FINDY Fin"dy, a. Etym: [AS. finding heavy; cf. Dan. fyndig strong, energetical, fynd strength, energy, emphasis.] Defn: Full; heavy; firm; solid; substemtial. [Obs.] A cold May and a windy Makes the barn fat amd findy. Old Prover FINE Fine, a. [Compar. Finer; superl. Finest.] Etym: [F. fin, LL. finus fine, pure, fr. L. finire to finish; cf. finitus, p.p., finished, completed (hence the sense accomplished, perfect.) See Finish, and cf. Finite.] 1. Finished; brought to perfection; refined; hence, free from impurity; excellent; superior; elegant; worthy of admiration; accomplished; beautiful. The gain thereof [is better] than fine gold. Prov. iii. 14. A cup of wine that's brisk and fine. Shak. Not only the finest gentleman of his time, but one of the finest scholars. Felton. To soothe the sick bed of so fine a being [Keats]. Leigh Hunt. 2. Aiming at show or effect; loaded with ornament; overdressed or overdecorated; showy. He gratified them with occasional . . . fine writing. M. Arnold. 3. Nice; delicate; subtle; exquisite; artful; skillful; dexterous. The spider's touch, how exquisitely fine! Pope. The nicest and most delicate touches of satire consist in fine raillery. Dryden. He has as fine a hand at picking a pocket as a woman. T. Gray. 4. Not coarse, gross, or heavy; as: (a) Not gross; subtile; thin; tenous. The eye standeth in the finer medium and the object in the grosser. Bacon. (b) Not coarse; comminuted; in small particles; as, fine sand or flour. (c) Not thick or heavy; slender; filmy; as, a fine thread. (d) Thin; attenuate; keen; as, a fine edge. (e) Made of fine materials; light; delicate; as, fine linen or silk. 5. Having (such) a proportion of pure metal in its composition; as, coins nine tenths fine. 6. (Used ironically.) Ye have made a fine hand, fellows. Shak. Note: Fine is often compounded with participles and adjectives, modifying them adverbially; a, fine-drawn, fine-featured, fine- grained, fine-spoken, fine-spun, etc. Fine arch (Glass Making), the smaller fritting furnace of a glasshouse. Knight. -- Fine arts. See the Note under Art. -- Fine cut, fine cut tobacco; a kind of chewing tobacco cut up into shreds. -- Fine goods, woven fabrics of fine texture and quality. McElrath. -- Fine stuff, lime, or a mixture of lime, plaster, etc., used as material for the finishing coat in plastering. -- To sail fine (Naut.), to sail as close to the wind as possible. Syn. -- Fine, Beautiful. When used as a word of praise, fine (being opposed to coarse) denotes no "ordinary thing of its kind." It is not as strong as beautiful, in reference to the single attribute implied in the latter term; but when we speak of a fine woman, we include a greater variety of particulars, viz., all the qualities which become a woman, -- breeding, sentiment, tact, etc. The term is equally comprehensive when we speak of a fine garden, landscape, horse, poem, etc.; and, though applied to a great variety of objects, the word has still a very definite sense, denoting a high degree of characteristic excellence. FINE Fine, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Fined; p. pr. & vb. n. Fining.] Etym: [From Fine, a.] 1. To make fine; to refine; to purify, to clarify; as, to fine gold. It hath been fined and refined by . . . learned men. Hobbes. 2. To make finer, or less coarse, as in bulk, texture, etc.; as. to fine the soil. L. H. Bailey. 3. To change by fine gradations; as (Naut.), to fine down a ship's lines, to diminish her lines gradually. I often sate at home On evenings, watching how they fined themselves With gradual conscience to a perfect night. Browning. FINE Fine, n. Etym: [OE. fin, L. finis end, also in LL., a final agreement or concord between the lord and his vassal; a sum of money paid at the end, so as to make an end of a transaction, suit, or prosecution; mulct; penalty; cf. OF. fin end, settlement, F. fin end. See Finish, and cf. Finance.] 1. End; conclusion; termination; extinction. [Obs.] "To see their fatal fine." Spenser. Is this the fine of his fines Shak. 2. A sum of money paid as the settlement of a claim, or by way of terminating a matter in dispute; especially, a payment of money imposed upon a party as a punishment for an offense; a mulct. 3. (Law) (a) (Feudal Law) A final agreement concerning lands or rents between persons, as the lord and his vassal. Spelman. (b) (Eng. Law) A sum of money or price paid for obtaining a benefit, favor, or privilege, as for admission to a copyhold, or for obtaining or renewing a lease. Fine for alienation (Feudal Law), a sum of money paid to the lord by a tenant whenever he had occasion to make over his land to another. Burrill. -- Fine of lands, a species of conveyance in the form of a fictitious suit compromised or terminated by the acknowledgment of the previous owner that such land was the right of the other party. Burrill. See Concord, n., 4. -- In fine, in conclusion; by way of termination or summing up. FINE Fine, v. t. Etym: [From Fine, n.] Defn: To impose a pecuniary penalty upon for an offense or breach of law; to set a fine on by judgment of a court; to punish by fine; to mulct; as, the trespassers were fined ten dollars. FINE Fine, v. i. Defn: To pay a fine. See Fine, n., 3 (b). [R.] Men fined for the king's good will; or that he would remit his anger; women fined for leave to marry. Hallam. FINE Fine, v. t. & i. Etym: [OF. finer, F. finir. See Finish, v. t.] Defn: To finish; to cease; or to cause to cease. [Obs.] FINEDRAW Fine"draw`, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Finedrawn; p. pr. & vb. n. Finedrawing.] Defn: To sew up, so nicely that the seam is not perceived; to renter. Marryat. FINEDRAWER Fine"draw`er, n. Defn: One who finedraws. FINEDRAWN Fine"drawn`, a. Defn: Drawn out with too much subtilty; overnice; as, finedrawn speculations. FINEER Fi*neer", v. i. Defn: To run in dept by getting goods made up in a way unsuitable for the use of others, and then threatening not to take them except on credit. [R.] Goldsmith. FINEER Fi*neer", v. t. Defn: To veneer. FINELESS Fine"less, a. Etym: [Fine end + -less.] Defn: Endless; boundless. [Obs.] Shak. FINELY Fine"ly, adv. Defn: In a fine or finished manner. FINENESS Fine"ness, n. Etym: [From Fine, a.] 1. The quality or condition of being fine. 2. Freedom from foreign matter or alloy; clearness; purity; as, the fineness of liquor. The fineness of the gold, and chargeful fashion. Shak. 3. The proportion of pure silver or gold