[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

4. (Arch) Defn: That part of a pilaster which is between the base and the capital, corresponding to the shaft of a column. 5. (Zoöl.) Defn: That segment of the body of an insect which is between the head and abdomen, and bears the wings and legs; the thorax; the truncus. 6. (Zoöl.) (a) The proboscis of an elephant. (b) The proboscis of an insect. 7. A long tube through which pellets of clay, p He shot sugarplums them out of a trunk. Howell. 8. A box or chest usually covered with leather, metal, or cloth, or sometimes made of leather, hide, or metal, for containing clothes or other goods; especially, one used to convey the effects of a traveler. Locked up in chests and trunks. Shak. 9. (Mining) Defn: A flume or sluice in which ores are separated from the slimes in which they are contained. 10. (Steam Engine) Defn: A large pipe forming the piston rod of a steam engine, of sufficient diameter to allow one end of the connecting rod to be attached to the crank, and the other end to pass within the pipe directly to the piston, thus making the engine more compact. 11. A long, large box, pipe, or conductor, made of plank or metal plates, for various uses, as for conveying air to a mine or to a furnace, water to a mill, grain to an elevator, etc. Trunk engine, a marine engine, the piston rod of which is a trunk. See Trunk, 10. -- Trunk hose, large breeches formerly worn, reaching to the knees. -- Trunk line, the main line of a railway, canal, or route of conveyance. -- Trunk turtle (Zoöl.), the leatherback. TRUNK Trunk, v. t. Etym: [Cf. F. tronquer. See Truncate.] 1. To lop off; to curtail; to truncate; to maim. [Obs.] "Out of the trunked stock." Spenser. 2. (Mining) Defn: To extract (ores) from the slimes in which they are contained, by means of a trunk. See Trunk, n., 9. Weale. TRUNKBACK Trunk"back`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: The leatherback. TRUNKED Trunked, a. Defn: Having (such) a trunk. Thickset with strong and well-trunked trees. Howell. TRUNK ENGINE Trunk engine. Defn: An engine having a trunk piston, as most internal combustion engines. TRUNKFISH Trunk"fish`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: Any one of several species of plectognath fishes, belonging to the genus Ostracion, or the family Ostraciontidæ, having an angular body covered with a rigid integument consisting of bony scales. Some of the species are called also coffer fish, and boxfish. TRUNKFUL Trunk"ful, n.; pl. Trunkfuls (. Defn: As much as a trunk will hold; enough to fill a trunk. TRUNK PISTON Trunk piston. Defn: In a single-acting engine, an elongated hollow piston, open at the end, in which the end of the connecting rod is pivoted. The piston rod, crosshead and stuffing box are thus dispensed with. TRUNK STEAMER Trunk steamer. Defn: A freight steamer having a high hatch coaming extending almost continuously fore and aft, but not of whaleback form at the sides. TRUNKWORK Trunk"work`, n. Defn: Work or devices suitable to be concealed; a secret stratagem. [Obs.] TRUNNEL Trun"nel, n. Defn: A trundle. [R.] TRUNNEL Trun"nel, n. (Shipbuilding) Defn: See Treenail. TRUNNION Trun"nion, n. Etym: [OF. trognon the stock, stump, or truck of a tree, F. trognon a core, stalk, fr.tron a trunk, stem. Cf. Trunk.] 1. (Gun.) Defn: A cylindrical projection on each side of a piece, whether gun, mortar, or howitzer, serving to support it on the cheeks of the carriage. See Illust. of Cannon. 2. (Steam Engine) Defn: A gudgeon on each side of an oscillating steam cylinder, to support it. It is usually tubular, to convey steam. Trunnion plate (Gun.), a plate in the carriage of a gun, mortar, or howitzer, which covers the upper part of the cheek, and forms a bearing under the trunnion. -- Trunnion ring (Gun.), a ring on a cannon next before the trunnions. [R.] TRUNNIONED Trun"nioned, a. Defn: Provided with trunnions; as, the trunnioned cylinder of an oscillating steam engine. TRUSION Tru"sion, n. Etym: [L.trudere, trusum, to thrust, shove: cf. F. trusion.] Defn: The act of pushing or thrusting. [R.] Bentley. TRUSS Truss, n. Etym: [OE. trusse, F. trousse, OF. also tourse; perhaps fr. L. tryrsus stalk, stem. Cf. Thyrsus, Torso, Trousers, Trousseau.] 1. A bundle; a package; as, a truss of grass. Fabyan. Bearing a truss of trifles at his back. Spenser. Note: A truss of hay in England is 56 lbs. of old and 60 lbs. of new hay; a truss of straw is 36 lbs. 2. A padded jacket or dress worn under armor, to protect the body from the effects of friction; also, a part of a woman's dress; a stomacher. [Obs.] Nares. Puts off his palmer's weed unto his truss, which bore The stains of ancient arms. Drayton. 3. (Surg.) Defn: A bandage or apparatus used in cases of hernia, to keep up the reduced parts and hinder further protrusion, and for other purposes. 4. (Bot.) Defn: A tuft of flowers formed at the top of the main stalk, or stem, of certain plants. 5. (Naut.) Defn: The rope or iron used to keep the center of a yard to the mast. 6. (Arch. & Engin.) Defn: An assemblage of members of wood or metal, supported at two points, and arranged to transmit pressure vertically to those points, with the least possible strain across the length of any member. Architectural trusses when left visible, as in open timber roofs, often contain members not needed for construction, or are built with greater massiveness than is requisite, or are composed in unscientific ways in accordance with the exigencies of style. Truss rod, a rod which forms the tension member of a trussed beam, or a tie rod in a truss. TRUSS Truss, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Trussed; p. pr. & vb. n. Trussing.] Etym: [F. trousser. See Truss, n.] 1. To bind or pack close; to make into a truss. Shak. It [his hood] was trussed up in his wallet. Chaucer. 2. To take fast hold of; to seize and hold firmly; to pounce upon. [Obs.] Who trussing me as eagle doth his prey. Spenser. 3. To strengthen or stiffen, as a beam or girder, by means of a brace or braces. 4. To skewer; to make fast, as the wings of a fowl to the body in cooking it. 5. To execute by hanging; to hang; -- usually with up. [Slang.] Sir W. Scott. To truss a person or one's self, to adjust and fasten the clothing of; especially, to draw tight and tie the laces of garments. [Obs.] "Enter Honeysuckle, in his nightcap, trussing himself." J. Webster (1607). -- To truss up, to strain; to make close or tight. -- Trussed beam, a beam which is stiffened by a system of braces constituting a truss of which the beam is a chord. TRUSSING Truss"ing, n. 1. (Arch. & Engin.) Defn: The timbers, etc., which form a truss, taken collectively. Weale. 2. (Arch. & Engin.) Defn: The art of stiffening or bracing a set of timbers, or the like, by putting in struts, ties, etc., till it has something of the character of a truss. 3. The act of a hawk, or other bird of prey, in seizing its quarry, and soaring with it into air. [Obs.] TRUST Trust, n. Etym: [OE. trust, trost, Icel. traust confidence, security; akin to Dan. & Sw. tröst comfort, consolation, G. trost, Goth. trausti a convention, covenant, and E. true. See True, and cf. Tryst.] 1. Assured resting of the mind on the integrity, veracity, justice, friendship, or other sound principle, of another person; confidence; reliance; reliance. "O ever-failing trust in mortal strength!" Milton. Most take things upon trust. Locke. 2. Credit given; especially, delivery of property or merchandise in reliance upon future payment; exchange without immediate receipt of an equivalent; as, to sell or buy goods on trust. 3. Assured anticipation; dependence upon something future or contingent, as if present or actual; hope; belief. "Such trust have we through Christ." 2 Cor. iii. 4. His trust was with the Eternal to be deemed Equal in strength. Milton. 4. That which is committed or intrusted to one; something received in confidence; charge; deposit. 5. The condition or obligation of one to whom anything is confided; responsible charge or office. [I] serve him truly that will put me in trust. Shak. Reward them well, if they observe their trust. Denham. 6. That upon which confidence is reposed; ground of reliance; hope. O Lord God, thou art my trust from my youth. Ps. lxxi. 5. 7. (Law) Defn: An estate devised or granted in confidence that the devisee or grantee shall convey it, or dispose of the profits, at the will, or for the benefit, of another; an estate held for the use of another; a confidence respecting property reposed in one person, who is termed the trustee, for the benefit of another, who is called the cestui que trust. 8.