[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

of manipulating, or the state of being manipulated; the act of handling work by hand; use of the hands, in an artistic or skillful manner, in science or art. Manipulation is to the chemist like the external senses to the mind. Whewell. 2. The use of the hands in mesmeric operations. 3. Artful management; as, the manipulation of political bodies; sometimes, a management or treatment for purposes of deception or fraud. MANIPULATIVE Ma*nip"u*la*tive, a. Defn: Of or pertaining to manipulation; performed by manipulation. MANIPULATOR Ma*nip"u*la`tor, n. Defn: One who manipulates MANIPULATORY Ma*nip"u*la*to*ry, a. Defn: Of or pertaining to manipulation. MANIS Ma"nis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. L. manes the ghosts or shades of the dead. So called from its dismal appearance, and because it seeks for its food by night.] (Zoöl.) Defn: A genus of edentates, covered with large, hard, triangular scales, with sharp edges that overlap each other like tiles on a roof. They inhabit the warmest parts of Asia and Africa, and feed on ants. Called also Scaly anteater. See Pangolin. MANITO; MANITOU; MANITU Man"i*to, Man"i*tou, Man"i*tu, n. Defn: A name given by tribes of American Indians to a great spirit, whether good or evil, or to any object of worship. Tylor. Gitche Manito the mighty, The Great Spirit, the creator, Smiled upon his helpless children! Longfellow. Mitche Manito the mighty, He the dreadful Spirit of Evil, As a serpent was depicted. Longfellow. MANITRUNK Man"i*trunk, n. Etym: [L. manus hand + E. trunk.] (Zoöl.) Defn: The anterior segment of the thorax in insects. See Insect. MANKIND Man`kind", n. Etym: [AS. mancynn. See Kin kindred, Kind, n.] 1. The human race; man, taken collectively. The proper study of mankind is man. Pore. 2. Men, as distinguished from women; the male portion of human race. Lev. xviii. 22. 3. Human feelings; humanity. [Obs] B. Jonson. MANKIND Man"kind`, a. Defn: Manlike; not womanly; masculine; bold; cruel. [Obs] Are women grown so mankind Must they be wooing Beau. & Fl. Be not too mankind against your wife. Chapman. MANKS Manks, a. Defn: Of or pertaining to the language or people of the of Man. -- n. Defn: The language spoken in the Isle of Man. See Manx. MANLESS Man"less, a. 1. Destitute of men. Bakon. 2. Unmanly; inhuman. [Obs.] Chapman. MANLESSLY Man"less*ly, adv. Defn: Inhumanly. [Obs.] MANLIKE Man"like`, a. Etym: [Man + like. Cf. Manly.] Defn: Like man, or like a man, in form or nature; having the qualities of a man, esp. the nobler qualities; manly. " Gentle, manlike speech." Testament of Love. " A right manlike man." Sir P. Sidney. In glaring Chloe's manlike taste and mien. Shenstone. MANLINESS Man"li*ness, n. Defn: The quality or state of being manly. MANLING Man"ling, n. Defn: A little man. [Obs.] B. Jonson. MANLY Man"ly, a. [Compar. Manlier; superl. Manliest.] Etym: [Man + -ly. Cf. Manlike.] Defn: Having qualities becoming to a man; not childish or womanish; manlike, esp. brave, courageous, resolute, noble. Let's briefly put on manly readiness. Shak. Serene and manly, hardened to sustain The load of life. Dryden. Syn. -- Bold; daring; brave; courageous; firm; undaunted; hardy; dignified; stately. MANLY Man"ly, adv. Defn: In a manly manner; with the courage and fortitude of a manly man; as, to act manly. MANNA Man"na, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. man; cf. Ar. mann, properly, gift (of heaven).] 1. (Script.) Defn: The food supplied to the Israelites in their journey through the wilderness of Arabia; hence, divinely supplied food. Ex. xvi. 15. 2. (Bot.) Defn: A name given to lichens of the genus Lecanora, sometimes blown into heaps in the deserts of Arabia and Africa, and gathered and used as food. 3. (Bot. & Med.) Defn: A sweetish exudation in the form of pale yellow friable flakes, coming from several trees and shrubs and used in medicine as a gentle laxative, as the secretion of Fraxinus Ornus, and F. rotundifolia, the manna ashes of Southern Europe. Note: Persian manna is the secretion of the camel's thorn (see Camel's thorn, under Camel); Tamarisk manna, that of the Tamarisk mannifera, a shrub of Western Asia; Australian, manna, that of certain species of eucalyptus; Briançon manna, that of the European larch. Manna grass (Bot.), a name of several tall slender grasses of the genus Glyceria. they have long loose panicles, and grow in moist places. Nerved manna grass is Glyceria nervata, and Floating manna grass is G. flu. -- Manna insect (Zoöl), a scale insect (Gossyparia mannipara), which causes the exudation of manna from the Tamarisk tree in Arabia. MANNA CROUP Man"na croup`. Etym: [Manna + Russ. & Pol. krupa groats, grits.] 1. The portions of hard wheat kernels not ground into flour by the millstones: a kind of semolina prepared in Russia and used for puddings, soups, etc. -- called also manna groats. 2. The husked grains of manna grass. MANNER Man"ner, n. Etym: [OE. manere, F. manière, from OF. manier, adj., manual, skillful, handy, fr. (assumed) LL. manarius, for L. manuarius belonging to the hand, fr. manus the hand. See Manual.] 1. Mode of action; way of performing or effecting anything; method; style; form; fashion. The nations which thou hast removed, and placed in the cities of Samaria, know not the manner of the God of the land. 2 Kings xvii. 26. The temptations of prosperity insinuate themselves after a gentle, but very powerful,manner. Atterbury. 2. Characteristic mode of acting, conducting, carrying one's self, or the like; bearing; habitual style. Specifically: (a) Customary method of acting; habit. Paul, as his manner was, went in unto them. Acts xvii. 2. Air and manner are more expressive than words. Richardson. (b) pl. Defn: Carriage; behavior; deportment; also, becoming behavior; well- bred carriage and address. Good manners are made up of petty sacrifices. Emerson. (c) The style of writing or thought of an author; characteristic peculiarity of an artist. 3. Certain degree or measure; as, it is in a manner done already. The bread is in a manner common. 1 Sam. xxi.5. 4. Sort; kind; style; -- in this application sometimes having the sense of a plural, sorts or kinds. Ye tithe mint, and rue, and all manner of herbs. Luke xi. 42. I bid thee say, What manner of man art thou Coleridge. Note: In old usage, of was often omitted after manner, when employed in this sense. "A manner Latin corrupt was her speech." Chaucer. By any manner of means, in any way possible; by any sort of means. -- To be taken in, or with the manner. Etym: [A corruption of to be taken in the mainor. See Mainor.] To be taken in the very act. [Obs.] See Mainor. -- To make one's manners, to make a bow or courtesy; to offer salutation. -- Manners bit, a portion left in a dish for the sake of good manners. Hallwell. Syn. -- Method; mode; custom; habit; fashion; air; look; mien; aspect; appearance. See Method. MANNERCHOR Män"ner*chor`, n.; G. pl. -chöre (#). [G.; männer, pl. of mann man + chor chorus.] Defn: A German men's chorus or singing club. MANNERED Man"nered, a. 1. Having a certain way, esp a. polite way, of carrying and conducting one's self. Give her princely training, that she may be Mannered as she is born. Shak. 2. Affected with mannerism; marked by excess of some characteristic peculiarity. His style is in some degree mannered and confined. Hazlitt. MANNERISM Man"ner*ism, n. Etym: [Cf. F. maniérisme.] Defn: Adherence to a peculiar style or manner; a characteristic mode of action, bearing, or treatment, carried to excess, especially in literature or art. Mannerism is pardonable,and is sometimes even agreeable, when the manner, though vicious, is natural . . . . But a mannerism which does not sit easy on the mannerist, which has been adopted on principle, and which can be sustained only by constant effort, is always offensive. Macaulay. MANNERIST Man"ner*ist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. maniériste.] Defn: One addicted to mannerism; a person who, in action, bearing, or treatment, carries characteristic peculiarities to excess. See citation under Mannerism. MANNERLINESS Man"ner*li*ness, n. Defn: The quality or state of being mannerly; civility; complaisance. Sir M. Hale. MANNERLY Man"ner*ly, a. Defn: Showing good manners; civil; respectful; complaisant. What thou thinkest meet, and is most mannerly. Shak. MANNERLY Man"ner*ly, adv. Defn: With good manners. Shak. MANNHEIM GOLD Mann"heim gold". Etym: [From Mannheim in Germany, where much of it was made.] Defn: A kind of brass made in imitation of gold. It contains eighty per cent of copper and twenty of zinc. Ure. MANNIDE Man"nide, n. Etym: [Mannite + anhydride.] (Chem.) Defn: A white amorphous or crystalline substance, obtained by dehydration of mannite, and distinct from, but convertible into, mannitan. MANNISH Man"nish, a. Etym: [Man + -ish: cf. AS. mennisc, menisc.] 1. Resembling a human being in form or nature; human. Chaucer. But yet it was a figure Most like to mannish creature. Gower. 2. Resembling, suitable to, or characteristic of, a man, manlike, masculine. Chaucer. A woman impudent and mannish grown. Shak. 3. Fond of men; -- said of a