[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

it after harvest. Cowell. SHACKATORY Shack"a*to*ry, n. Defn: A hound. [Obs.] SHACKLE Shac"kle, n. Defn: Stubble. [Prov. Eng.] Pegge. SHACKLE Shac"kle, n. Etym: [Generally used in the plural.] Etym: [OE. schakkyll, schakle, AS. scacul, sceacul, a shackle, fr. scacan to shake; cf. D. schakel a link of a chain, a mesh, Icel. skökull the pole of a cart. See Shake.] 1. Something which confines the legs or arms so as to prevent their free motion; specifically, a ring or band inclosing the ankle or wrist, and fastened to a similar shackle on the other leg or arm, or to something else, by a chain or a strap; a gyve; a fetter. His shackles empty left; himself escaped clean. Spenser. 2. Hence, that which checks or prevents free action. His very will seems to be in bonds and shackles. South. 3. A fetterlike band worn as an ornament. Most of the men and women . . . had all earrings made of gold, and gold shackles about their legs and arms. Dampier. 4. A link or loop, as in a chain, fitted with a movable bolt, so that the parts can be separated, or the loop removed; a clevis. 5. A link for connecting railroad cars; -- called also drawlink, draglink, etc. 6. The hinged and curved bar of a padlock, by which it is hung to the staple. Knight. Shackle joint (Anat.), a joint formed by a bony ring passing through a hole in a bone, as at the bases of spines in some fishes. SHACKLE Shac"kle, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Shackled; p. pr. & vb. n. Shackling.] 1. To tie or confine the limbs of, so as to prevent free motion; to bind with shackles; to fetter; to chain. To lead him shackled, and exposed to scorn Of gathering crowds, the Britons' boasted chief. J. Philips. 2. Figuratively: To bind or confine so as to prevent or embarrass action; to impede; to cumber. Shackled by her devotion to the king, she seldom could pursue that object. Walpole. 3. To join by a link or chain, as railroad cars. [U. S.] Shackle bar, the coupling between a locomotive and its tender. [U.S.] -- Shackle bolt, a shackle. Sir W. Scott. SHACKLOCK Shack"lock`, n. Defn: A sort of shackle. [Obs.] SHACKLY Shack"ly, a. Defn: Shaky; rickety. [Colloq. U. S.] SHAD Shad, n. sing. & pl. Etym: [AS. sceadda a kind of fish, akin to Prov. G. schade; cf. Ir. & Gael. sgadan a herring, W. ysgadan herrings; all perhaps akin to E. skate a fish.] (Zoöl.) Defn: Any one of several species of food fishes of the Herring family. The American species (Clupea sapidissima), which is abundant on the Atlantic coast and ascends the larger rivers in spring to spawn, is an important market fish. The European allice shad, or alose (C. alosa), and the twaite shad. (C. finta), are less important species. [Written also chad.] Note: The name is loosely applied, also, to several other fishes, as the gizzard shad (see under Gizzard), called also mud shad, white- eyed shad, and winter shad. Hardboaded, or Yellow-tailed, shad, the menhaden. -- Hickory, or Tailor, shad, the mattowacca. -- Long-boned shad, one of several species of important food fishes of the Bermudas and the West Indies, of the genus Gerres. -- Shad bush (Bot.), a name given to the North American shrubs or small trees of the rosaceous genus Amelanchier (A. Canadensis, and A. alnifolia) Their white racemose blossoms open in April or May, when the shad appear, and the edible berries (pomes) ripen in June or July, whence they are called Juneberries. The plant is also called service tree, and Juneberry. -- Shad frog, an American spotted frog (Rana halecina); -- so called because it usually appears at the time when the shad begin to run in the rivers. -- Trout shad, the squeteague. -- White shad,the common shad. SHADBIRD Shad"bird`, n. (Zoöl.) (a) The American, or Wilson's, snipe. See under Snipe. So called because it appears at the same time as the shad. (b) The common European sandpiper. [Prov. Eng.] SHADD Shadd, n. (Mining.) Defn: Rounded stones containing tin ore, lying at the surface of the ground, and indicating a vein. Raymond. SHADDE Shad"de, Defn: obs. imp. of Shed. Chaucer. SHADDOCK Shad"dock, n. Etym: [Said to be so called from a Captain Shaddock, who first brought this fruit from the East Indies.] (Bot.) Defn: A tree (Citrus decumana) and its fruit, which is a large species of orange; -- called also forbidden fruit, and pompelmous. SHADE Shade, n. Etym: [OE. shade, shadewe, schadewe, AS. sceadu, scead; akin to OS. skado, D. schaduw, OHG. scato, (gen. scatewes), G. schatten, Goth. skadus, Ir. & Gael. sgath, and probably to Gr. Shadow, Shed a hat.] 1. Comparative obscurity owing to interception or interruption of the rays of light; partial darkness caused by the intervention of something between the space contemplated and the source of light. Note: Shade differs from shadow as it implies no particular form or definite limit; whereas a shadow represents in form the object which intercepts the light. When we speak of the shade of a tree, we have no reference to its form; but when we speak of measuring a pyramid or other object by its shadow, we have reference to its form and extent. 2. Darkness; obscurity; -- often in the plural. The shades of night were falling fast. Longfellow. 3. An obscure place; a spot not exposed to light; hence, a secluded retreat. Let us seek out some desolate shade, and there Weep our sad bosoms empty. Shak. 4. That which intercepts, or shelters from, light or the direct rays of the sun; hence, also, that which protects from heat or currents of air; a screen; protection; shelter; cover; as, a lamp shade. The Lord is thy shade upon thy right hand. Ps. cxxi. 5. Sleep under a fresh tree's shade. Shak. Let the arched knife well sharpened now assail the spreading shades of vegetables. J. Philips. 5. Shadow. [Poetic.] Envy will merit, as its shade, pursue. Pope. 6. The soul after its separation from the body; -- so called because the ancients it to be perceptible to the sight, though not to the touch; a spirit; a ghost; as, the shades of departed heroes. Swift as thought the flitting shade Thro' air his momentary journey made. Dryden. 7. (Painting, Drawing, etc.) Defn: The darker portion of a picture; a less illuminated part. See Def. 1, above. 8. Degree or variation of color, as darker or lighter, stronger or paler; as, a delicate shade of pink. White, red, yellow, blue, with their several degrees, or shades and mixtures, as green only in by the eyes. Locke. 9. A minute difference or variation, as of thought, belief, expression, etc.; also, the quality or degree of anything which is distinguished from others similar by slight differences; as, the shades of meaning in synonyms. New shades and combinations of thought. De Quincey. Every shade of religious and political opinion has its own headquarters. Macaulay. The Shades, the Nether World; the supposed abode of souls after leaving the body. SHADE Shade, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Shaded; p. pr. & vb. n. Shading.] 1. To shelter or screen by intercepting the rays of light; to keep off illumination from. Milton. I went to crop the sylvan scenes, And shade our altars with their leafy greens. Dryden. 2. To shelter; to cover from injury; to protect; to screen; to hide; as, to shade one's eyes. Ere in our own house I do shade my head. Shak. 3. To obscure; to dim the brightness of. Thou shad'st The full blaze of thy beams. Milton. 4. To pain in obscure colors; to darken. 5. To mark with gradations of light or color. 6. To present a shadow or image of; to shadow forth; to represent. [Obs.] [The goddess] in her person cunningly did shade That part of Justice which is Equity. Spenser. SHADEFUL Shade"ful, a. Defn: Full of shade; shady. SHADELESS Shade"less, a. Defn: Being without shade; not shaded. SHADER Shad"er, n. Defn: One who, or that which, shades. SHADILY Shad"i*ly, adv. Defn: In a shady manner. SHADINESS Shad"i*ness Defn: , n. Quality or state of being shady. SHADING Shad"ing, n. 1. Act or process of making a shade. 2. That filling up which represents the effect of more or less darkness, expressing rotundity, projection, etc., in a picture or a drawing. SHADOOF Sha*doof", n. Etym: [Ar. shad.] Defn: A machine, resembling a well sweep, used in Egypt for raising water from the Nile for irrigation. SHADOW Shad"ow, n. Etym: [Originally the same word as shade. sq. root162. See Shade.] 1. Shade within defined limits; obscurity or deprivation of light, apparent on a surface, and representing the form of the body which intercepts the rays of light; as, the shadow of a man, of a tree, or of a tower. See the Note under Shade, n., 1. 2. Darkness; shade; obscurity.