[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

who impertinently or maliciously communicates intelligence, scandal, etc., and makes mischief. Spies and talebearers, encouraged by her father, did their best to inflame her resentment. Macaulay. TALEBEARING Tale"bear`ing, a. Defn: Telling tales officiously. TALEBEARING Tale"bear`ing, n. Defn: The act of informing officiously; communication of sectrts, scandal, etc., maliciously. TALED Ta"led, n. (Jewish Antiq.) Defn: A kind of quadrangular piece of cloth put on by the Jews when repeating prayers in the synagogues. Crabb. TALEFUL Tale"ful, a. Defn: Full of stories. [R.] Thomson. TALEGALLA Tal`e*gal"la, n. Etym: [NL.] (Zoöl.) Defn: A genus of Australian birds which includes the brush turkey. See Brush turkey. TALENT Tal"ent, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. talentum a talent (in sense 1), Gr. tolerare, tollere, to lift up, sustain, endure. See Thole, v. t., Tolerate.] 1. Among the ancient Greeks, a weight and a denomination of money equal to 60 minæ or 6,000 drachmæ. The Attic talent, as a weight, was about 57 lbs. avoirdupois; as a denomination of silver money, its value was £243 15s. sterling, or about $1,180. Rowing vessel whose burden does not exceed five hundred talents. Jowett (Thucid.). 2. Among the Hebrews, a weight and denomination of money. For silver it was equivalent to 3,000 shekels, and in weight was equal to about 93 3. Inclination; will; disposition; desire. [Obs.] They rather counseled you to your talent than to your profit. Chaucer. 4. Intellectual ability, natural or acquired; mental endowment or capacity; skill in accomplishing; a special gift, particularly in business, art, or the like; faculty; a use of the word probably originating in the Scripture parable of the talents (Matt. xxv. 14- 30). He is chiefly to be considered in his three different talents, as a critic, a satirist, and a writer of odes. Dryden. His talents, his accomplishments, his graceful manners, made him generally popular. Macaulay. Syn. -- Ability; faculty; gift; endowment. See Genius. TALENTED Tal"ent*ed, a. Defn: Furnished with talents; possessing skill or talent; mentally gifted. Abp. Abbot (1663). Note: This word has been strongly objected to by Coleridge and some other critics, but, as it would seem, upon not very good grounds, as the use of talent or talents to signify mental ability, although at first merely metaphorical, is now fully established, and talented, as a formative, is just as analogical and legitimate as gifted, bigoted, moneyed, landed, lilied, honeyed, and numerous other adjectives having a participal form, but derived directly from nouns and not from verbs. TALES Ta"les, n. Etym: [L., pl. of talis such (persons).] (Law) (a) pl. Defn: Persons added to a jury, commonly from those in or about the courthouse, to make up any deficiency in the number of jurors regularly summoned, being like, or such as, the latter. Blount. Blackstone. (b) syntactically sing. Defn: The writ by which such persons are summoned. Tales book, a book containing the names of such as are admitted of the tales. Blount. Craig. -- Tales de circumstantibus Etym: [L.], such, or the like, from those standing about. TALESMAN Tales"man, n.; pl. Talesmen (. (Law) Defn: A person called to make up a deficiency in the number of jurors when a tales is awarded. Wharton. TALETELLER Tale"tell`er, n. Defn: One who tells tales or stories, especially in a mischievous or officious manner; a talebearer; a telltale; a tattler. TALEWISE Tale"wise`, adv. Defn: In a way of a tale or story. TALIACOTIAN Tal"ia*co`tian, a. Defn: See Tagliacotian. TALIATION Tal`i*a"tion, n. Defn: Retaliation. [Obs.] Just heav'n this taliation did decree. Beaumont. TALION Ta"li*on, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. talio, perh. fr. talis such. Cf. Retaliation.] Defn: Retaliation. [R.] Holinshed. TALIPES Tal"i*pes, n. Etym: [NL., fr. L. talus an ankle + pes, pedis, a foot; cf. L. talipedare to be weak in the feet, properly, to walk on the ankles.] (Surg.) Defn: The deformity called clubfoot. See Clubfoot. Note: Several varieties are distinguished; as, Talipes varus, in which the foot is drawn up and bent inward; T. valgus, in which the foot is bent outward; T. equinus, in which the sole faces backward and the patient walks upon the balls of the toes; and T. calcaneus (called also talus), in which the sole faces forward and the patient walks upon the heel. TALIPOT Tal"i*pot, n. Etym: [Hind. talpat the leaf of the tree.] (Bot.) Defn: A beautiful tropical palm tree (Corypha umbraculifera), a native of Ceylon and the Malabar coast. It has a trunk sixty or seventy feet high, bearing a crown of gigantic fan-shaped leaves which are used as umbrellas and as fans in ceremonial processions, and, when cut into strips, as a substitute for writing paper. TALISMAN Tal"is*man, n.; pl. Talismans. Etym: [Sp., from Ar. tilism, tilsam, a magical image, pl. tilsaman, fr. Gr. 1. A magical figure cut or engraved under certain superstitious observances of the configuration of the heavens, to which wonderful effects are ascribed; the seal, figure, character, or image, of a heavenly sign, constellation, or planet, engraved on a sympathetic stone, or on a metal corresponding to the star, in order to receive its influence. 2. Hence, something that produces extraordinary effects, esp. in averting or repelling evil; an amulet; a charm; as, a talisman to avert diseases. Swift. TALISMANIC; TALISMANICAL Tal`is*man"ic, Tal`is*man"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. talismanique.] Defn: Of or pertaining to a talisman; having the properties of a talisman, or preservative against evils by occult influence; magical. TALK Talk, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Talked; p. pr. & vb. n. Talking.] Etym: [Cf. LG. talk talk, gabble, Prov. G. talken to speak indistinctly; or OD. tolken to interpret, MHG. tolkan to interpret, to tell, to speak indistinctly, Dan. tolke to interpret, Sw. tolka, Icel. t to interpret, t an interpreter, Lith. tulkas an interpreter, tulkanti, tulkoti, to interpret, Russ. tolkovate to interpret, to talk about; or perhaps fr. OE. talien to speak (see Tale, v. i. & n.).] 1. To utter words; esp., to converse familiarly; to speak, as in familiar discourse, when two or more persons interchange thoughts. I will buy with you, sell with you, talk with you, walk with you, and so following, but I will not eat with you. Shak. 2. To confer; to reason; to consult. Let me talk with thee of thy judgments. Jer. xii. 1. 3. To prate; to speak impertinently. [Colloq.] To talk of, to relate; to tell; to give an account of; as, authors talk of the wonderful remains of Palmyra. "The natural histories of Switzerland talk much of the fall of these rocks, and the great damage done." Addison. -- To talk to, to advise or exhort, or to reprove gently; as, I will talk to my son respecting his conduct. [Colloq.] TALK Talk, v. t. 1. To speak freely; to use for conversing or communicating; as, to talk French. 2. To deliver in talking; to speak; to utter; to make a subject of conversation; as, to talk nonsense; to talk politics. 3. To consume or spend in talking; -- often followed by away; as, to talk away an evening. 4. To cause to be or become by talking. "They would talk themselves mad." Shak. To talk over. (a) To talk about; to have conference respecting; to deliberate upon; to discuss; as, to talk over a matter or plan. (b) To change the mind or opinion of by talking; to convince; as, to talk over an opponent. TALK Talk, n. 1. The act of talking; especially, familiar converse; mutual discourse; that which is uttered, especially in familiar conversation, or the mutual converse of two or more. In various talk the instructive hours they passed. Pope. Their talk, when it was not made up of nautical phrases, was too commonly made up of oaths and curses. Macaulay. 2. Report; rumor; as, to hear talk of war. I hear a talk up and down of raising our money. Locke. 3. Subject of discourse; as, his achievment is the talk of the town. Syn. -- Conversation; colloquy; discourse; chat; dialogue; conference; communication. See Conversation. TALKATIVE Talk"a*tive, a. Defn: Given to much talking. Syn. -- Garrulous; loquacious. See Garrulous. -- Talk"a*tive*ly, adv. -- Talk"a*tive*ness, n. TALKER Talk"er, n. 1. One who talks; especially, one who is noted for his power of conversing readily or agreeably; a conversationist. There probably were never four talkers more admirable in four different ways than Johnson, Burke, Beauclerk, and Garrick. Macaulay. 2. A loquacious person, male or female; a prattler; a babbler; also, a boaster; a braggart; -- used in contempt or reproach. Jer. Taylor. TALKING Talk"ing, a. 1. That talks; able to utter words; as, a talking parrot. 2. Given to talk; loquacious. The hawthorn bush, with seats beneath the shade, For talking age and whispering lovers made. Goldsmith. TALL Tall, a. [Compar. Taller; superl. Tallest.] Etym: [OE. tal seemly, elegant, docile; of uncertain origin; cf. AS. un-tala, un-tale, bad, Goth. untals indocile, disobedient, uninstructed, or W. & Corn. tal high, Ir. talla meet, fit, proper, just.] 1. High in stature; having a considerable, or an unusual, extension upward; long and