[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

choose; also, to turn to; to have recourse to; as, to take the road to the right. Saul said, Cast lots between me and Jonathan my son. And Jonathan was taken. 1 Sam. xiv. 42. The violence of storming is the course which God is forced to take for the destroying . . . of sinners. Hammond. (d) To employ; to use; to occupy; hence, to demand; to require; as, it takes so much cloth to make a coat. This man always takes time . . . before he passes his judgments. I. Watts. (e) To form a likeness of; to copy; to delineate; to picture; as, to take picture of a person. Beauty alone could beauty take so right. Dryden. (f) To draw; to deduce; to derive. [R.] The firm belief of a future judgment is the most forcible motive to a good life, because taken from this consideration of the most lasting happiness and misery. Tillotson. (g) To assume; to adopt; to acquire, as shape; to permit to one's self; to indulge or engage in; to yield to; to have or feel; to enjoy or experience, as rest, revenge, delight, shame; to form and adopt, as a resolution; -- used in general senses, limited by a following complement, in many idiomatic phrases; as, to take a resolution; I take the liberty to say. (h) To lead; to conduct; as, to take a child to church. (i) To carry; to convey; to deliver to another; to hand over; as, he took the book to the bindery. He took me certain gold, I wot it well. Chaucer. (k) To remove; to withdraw; to deduct; -- with from; as, to take the breath from one; to take two from four. 2. In a somewhat passive sense, to receive; to bear; to endure; to acknowledge; to accept. Specifically: -- (a) To accept, as something offered; to receive; not to refuse or reject; to admit. Ye shall take no satisfaction for the life of a murderer. Num. xxxv. 31. Let not a widow be taken into the number under threescore. 1 Tim. v. 10. (b) To receive as something to be eaten or dronk; to partake of; to swallow; as, to take food or wine. (c) Not to refuse or balk at; to undertake readily; to clear; as, to take a hedge or fence. (d) To bear without ill humor or resentment; to submit to; to tolerate; to endure; as, to take a joke; he will take an affront from no man. (e) To admit, as, something presented to the mind; not to dispute; to allow; to accept; to receive in thought; to entertain in opinion; to understand; to interpret; to regard or look upon; to consider; to suppose; as, to take a thing for granted; this I take to be man's motive; to take men for spies. You take me right. Bacon. Charity, taken in its largest extent, is nothing else but the science love of God and our neighbor. Wake. [He] took that for virtue and affection which was nothing but vice in a disguise. South. You'd doubt his sex, and take him for a girl. Tate. (f) To accept the word or offer of; to receive and accept; to bear; to submit to; to enter into agreement with; -- used in general senses; as, to take a form or shape. I take thee at thy word. Rowe. Yet thy moist clay is pliant to command; . . . Not take the mold. Dryden. To be taken aback, To take advantage of, To take air, etc. See under Aback, Advantage, etc. -- To take aim, to direct the eye or weapon; to aim. -- To take along, to carry, lead, or convey. -- To take arms, to commence war or hostilities. -- To take away, to carry off; to remove; to cause deprivation of; to do away with; as, a bill for taking away the votes of bishops. "By your own law, I take your life away." Dryden. -- To take breath, to stop, as from labor, in order to breathe or rest; to recruit or refresh one's self. -- To take care, to exercise care or vigilance; to be solicitous. "Doth God take care for oxen" 1 Cor. ix. 9. -- To take care of, to have the charge or care of; to care for; to superintend or oversee. -- To take down. (a) To reduce; to bring down, as from a high, or higher, place; as, to take down a book; hence, to bring lower; to depress; to abase or humble; as, to take down pride, or the proud. "I never attempted to be impudent yet, that I was not taken down." Goldsmith. (b) To swallow; as, to take down a potion. (c) To pull down; to pull to pieces; as, to take down a house or a scaffold. (d) To record; to write down; as, to take down a man's words at the time he utters them. -- To take effect, To take fire. See under Effect, and Fire. -- To take ground to the right or to the left (Mil.), to extend the line to the right or left; to move, as troops, to the right or left. -- To take heart, to gain confidence or courage; to be encouraged. -- To take heed, to be careful or cautious. "Take heed what doom against yourself you give." Dryden. -- To take heed to, to attend with care, as, take heed to thy ways. -- To take hold of, to seize; to fix on. -- To take horse, to mount and ride a horse. -- To take in. (a) To inclose; to fence. (b) To encompass or embrace; to comprise; to comprehend. (c) To draw into a smaller compass; to contract; to brail or furl; as, to take in sail. (d) To cheat; to circumvent; to gull; to deceive. [Colloq.] (e) To admit; to receive; as, a leaky vessel will take in water. (f) To win by conquest. [Obs.] For now Troy's broad-wayed town He shall take in. Chapman. (g) To receive into the mind or understanding. "Some bright genius can take in a long train of propositions." I. Watts. (h) To receive regularly, as a periodical work or newspaper; to take. [Eng.] -- To take in hand. See under Hand. -- To take in vain, to employ or utter as in an oath. "Thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain." Ex. xx. 7. -- To take issue. See under Issue. -- To take leave. See Leave, n., 2. -- To take a newspaper, magazine, or the like, to receive it regularly, as on paying the price of subscription. -- To take notice, to observe, or to observe with particular attention. -- To take notice of. See under Notice. -- To take oath, to swear with solemnity, or in a judicial manner. -- To take off. (a) To remove, as from the surface or outside; to remove from the top of anything; as, to take off a load; to take off one's hat. (b) To cut off; as, to take off the head, or a limb. (c) To destroy; as, to take off life. (d) To remove; to invalidate; as, to take off the force of an argument. (e) To withdraw; to call or draw away. Locke. (f) To swallow; as, to take off a glass of wine. (g) To purchase; to take in trade. "The Spaniards having no commodities that we will take off." Locke. (h) To copy; to reproduce. "Take off all their models in wood." Addison. (i) To imitate; to mimic; to personate. (k) To find place for; to dispose of; as, more scholars than preferments can take off. [R.] Bacon. -- To take on, to assume; to take upon one's self; as, to take on a character or responsibility. -- To take one's own course, to act one's pleasure; to pursue the measures of one's own choice. -- To take order for. See under Order. -- To take order with, to check; to hinder; to repress. [Obs.] Bacon. -- To take orders. (a) To receive directions or commands. (b) (Eccl.) To enter some grade of the ministry. See Order, n., 10. -- To take out. (a) To remove from within a place; to separate; to deduct. (b) To draw out; to remove; to clear or cleanse from; as, to take out a stain or spot from cloth. (c) To produce for one's self; as, to take out a patent. (d) To put an end to; as, to take the conceit out of a man. (e) To escort; as, to take out to dinner. -- To take over, to undertake; to take the management of. [Eng.] Cross (Life of G. Eliot). -- To take part, to share; as, they take part in our rejoicing. -- To take part with, to unite with; to join with. -- To take place, root, sides, stock, etc. See under Place, Root, Side, etc.