[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

Properly, the translation and exposition in the Huzvâresh, or literary Pehlevi, language, of the Avesta, the Zoroastrian sacred writings; as commonly used, the language (an ancient Persian dialect) in which the Avesta is written. ZEND-AVESTA Zend`-A*ves"ta, n. Etym: [Properly, the Avesta, or sacred text, and its zend, or interpretation, in a more modern and intelligible language. W. D. Whitney.] Defn: The sacred writings of the ancient Persian religion, attributed to Zoroaster, but chiefly of a later date. ZENDIK Zen"dik, n. Etym: [Ar. zandik.] Defn: An atheist or unbeliever; -- name given in the East to those charged with disbelief of any revealed religion, or accused of magical heresies. ZENICK Ze"nick, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: A South African burrowing mammal (Suricata tetradactyla), allied to the civets. It is grayish brown, with yellowish transverse stripes on the back. Called also suricat. ZENIK Ze"nik, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: See Zenick. ZENITH Ze"nith, n. Etym: [OE. senyth, OF. cenith, F. zénith, Sp. zenit, cenit, abbrev. fr. Ar. samt-urras way of the head, vertical place; samt way, path + al the + ras head. Cf. Azimuth.] 1. That point in the visible celestial hemisphere which is vertical to the spectator; the point of the heavens directly overhead; -- opposed to nadir. From morn To noon he fell, from noon to dewy eve, A summer's day; and with the setting sun Dropped from the zenith, like a falling star. Milton. 2. hence, figuratively, the point of culmination; the greatest height; the height of success or prosperity. I find my zenith doth depend upon A most auspicious star. Shak. This dead of midnight is the noon of thought, And wisdom mounts her zenith with the stars. Mrs. Barbauld. It was during those civil troubles . . . this aspiring family reached the zenith. Macaulay. Zenith distance. (Astron.) See under Distance. -- Zenith sector. (Astron.) See Sector, 3. -- Zenith telescope (Geodesy), a telescope specially designed for determining the latitude by means of any two stars which pass the meridian about the same time, and at nearly equal distances from the zenith, but on opposite sides of it. It turns both on a vertical and a horizontal axis, is provided with a graduated vertical semicircle, and a level for setting it to a given zenith distance, and with a micrometer for measuring the difference of the zenith distances of the two stars. ZENITHAL Ze"nith*al, a. Defn: Of or pertaining to the zenith. "The deep zenithal blue." Tyndall. ZEOLITE Ze"o*lite, n. Etym: [Gr. -lite: cf. F. zéolithe.] (Min.) Defn: A term now used to designate any one of a family of minerals, hydrous silicates of alumina, with lime, soda, potash, or rarely baryta. Here are included natrolite, stilbite, analcime, chabazite, thomsonite, heulandite, and others. These species occur of secondary origin in the cavities of amygdaloid, basalt, and lava, also, less frequently, in granite and gneiss. So called because many of these species intumesce before the blowpipe. Needle zeolite, needlestone; natrolite. ZEOLITIC Ze`o*lit"ic, a. Defn: Of or pertaining to a zeolite; consisting of, or resembling, a zeolite. ZEOLITIFORM Ze`o*lit"i*form, a. Defn: Having the form of a zeolite. ZEPHYR Zeph"yr, n. Etym: [L. zephyrus, Gr. zéphyr.] Defn: The west wind; poetically, any soft, gentle breeze. "Soft the zephyr blows." Gray. As gentle As zephyrs blowing below the violet. Shak. Zephyr cloth, a thin kind of cassimere made in Belgium; also, a waterproof fabric of wool. -- Zephyr shawl, a kind of thin, light, embroidered shawl made of worsted and cotton. -- Zephyr yarn, or worsted, a fine, soft kind of yarn or worsted, -- used for knitting and embroidery. ZEPHYRUS Zeph"y*rus, n. Etym: [L. See Zephyr.] Defn: The west wind, or zephyr; -- usually personified, and made the most mild and gentle of all the sylvan deities. Mild as when Zephyrus on Flora breathes. Milton. ZEPPELIN Zep`pe*lin" (tsep`pe*le"; Angl. zep"pe*lin), n. Defn: A dirigible balloon of the rigid type, consisting of a cylindrical trussed and covered frame supported by internal gas cells, and provided with means of propulsion and control. It was first successfully used by Ferdinand Count von Zeppelin. ZEQUIN Ze"quin, n. Defn: See Sequin. ZERDA Zer"da, n. Etym: [Of African origin.] (Zoöl.) Defn: The fennec. ZERIBA Ze*ri"ba, n. (Mil.) Defn: Same as Zareba. ZERO Ze"ro, n; pl. Zeros or Zeroes. Etym: [F. zéro, from Ar. çafrun, çifrun, empty, a cipher. Cf. Cipher.] 1. (Arith.) Defn: A cipher; nothing; naught. 2. The point from which the graduation of a scale, as of a thermometer, commences. Note: Zero in the Centigrade, or Celsius thermometer, and in the Réaumur thermometer, is at the point at which water congeals. The zero of the Fahrenheit thermometer is fixed at the point at which the mercury stands when immersed in a mixture of snow and common salt. In Wedgwood's pyrometer, the zero corresponds with 1077° on the Fahrenheit scale. See Illust. of Thermometer. 3. Fig.: The lowest point; the point of exhaustion; as, his patience had nearly reached zero. Absolute zero. See under Absolute. -- Zero method (Physics), a method of comparing, or measuring, forces, electric currents, etc., by so opposing them that the pointer of an indicating apparatus, or the needle of a galvanometer, remains at, or is brought to, zero, as contrasted with methods in which the deflection is observed directly; -- called also null method. -- Zero point, the point indicating zero, or the commencement of a scale or reckoning. ZEST Zest, n. Etym: [F. zeste, probably fr. L. schistos split, cleft, divided, Gr. Schism.] 1. A piece of orange or lemon peel, or the aromatic oil which may be squeezed from such peel, used to give flavor to liquor, etc. 2. Hence, something that gives or enhances a pleasant taste, or the taste itself; an appetizer; also, keen enjoyment; relish; gusto. Almighty Vanity! to thee they owe Their zest of pleasure, and their balm of woe. Young. Liberality of disposition and conduct gives the highest zest and relish to social intercourse. Gogan. 3. The woody, thick skin inclosing the kernel of a walnut. [Obs.] ZEST Zest, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Zested; p. pr. & vb. n. Zesting.] 1. To cut into thin slips, as the peel of an orange, lemon, etc.; to squeeze, as peel, over the surface of anything. 2. To give a relish or flavor to; to heighten the taste or relish of; as, to zest wine. Gibber. ZETA Ze"ta, n. Etym: [L., from Gr. Zed.] Defn: A Greek letter [z] corresponding to our z. ZETETIC Ze*tet"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. zététique.] Defn: Seeking; proceeding by inquiry. Zetetic method (Math.), the method used for finding the value of unknown quantities by direct search, in investigation, or in the solution of problems. [R.] Hutton. ZETETIC Ze*tet"ic, n. Defn: A seeker; -- a name adopted by some of the Pyrrhonists. ZETETICS Ze*tet"ics, n. Etym: [See Zetetic, a.] (Math.) Defn: A branch of algebra which relates to the direct search for unknown quantities. [R.] ZEUGLODON Zeu"glo*don, n. Etym: [Gr. (Paleon.) Defn: A genus of extinct Eocene whales, remains of which have been found in the Gulf States. The species had very long and slender bodies and broad serrated teeth. See Phocodontia. ZEUGLODONT Zeu"glo*dont, (Zoöl.) Defn: Any species of Zeuglodonta. ZEUGLODONTA Zeu`glo*don"ta, n. pl. Etym: [NL.] (Zoöl.) Defn: Same as Phocodontia. ZEUGMA Zeug"ma, n. Etym: [L., from Gr. Yoke.] (Gram.) Defn: A figure by which an adjective or verb, which agrees with a nearer word, is, by way of supplement, referred also to another more remote; as, "hic illius arma, hic currus fuit;" where fuit, which agrees directly with currus, is referred also to arma. ZEUGMATIC Zeug*mat"ic, a. Defn: Of or pertaining to zeugma; characterized by zeugma. ZEUGOBRANCHIATA Zeu`go*bran`chi*a"ta, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.) Defn: Same as Zygobranchia. ZEUS Zeus, n. (Gr. Myth.) Defn: The chief deity of the Greeks, and ruler of the upper world (cf. Hades). He was identified with Jupiter. ZEUZERIAN Zeu*ze"ri*an, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: Any one of a group of bombycid moths of which the genus Zeuzera is the type. Some of these moths are of large size. The goat moth is an example. ZEYLANITE Zey"lan*ite, n. (Min.) Defn: See Ceylanite. ZIBET; ZIBETH Zib"et, Zib"eth, n. Etym: [Cf. It. zibetto. See Civet.] (Zoöl.) Defn: A carnivorous mammal (Viverra zibetha) closely allied to the civet, from which it differs in having the spots on the body less distinct, the throat whiter, and the black rings on the tail more numerous. Note: It inhabits India, Southern China, and the East Indies. It yields a perfume similar to that of the civet. It is often domesticated by the natives, and then serves the same purposes as the domestic cat. Called also Asiatic, or Indian, civet. ZIEGA Zie"ga, n. Defn: Curd produced from milk by adding acetic acid, after rennet has ceased to cause coagulation. Brande & C. ZIETRISIKITE Zie`tri*si"kite, n. (Min.) Defn: A mineral wax, vert similar to ozocerite. It is found at Zietrisika, Moldavia, whence its name. ZIF Zif, n. Etym: [Heb. ziv.] Defn: The second month of the Jewish