[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

within a given time; also, a district required to be covered by such statement; as, a place within the bills of mortality of London. -- Bill of pains and penalties, a special act of a legislature which inflicts a punishment less than death upon persons supposed to be guilty of treason or felony, without any conviction in the ordinary course of judicial proceedings. Bouvier. Wharton. -- Bill of parcels, an account given by the seller to the buyer of the several articles purchased, with the price of each. -- Bill of particulars (Law), a detailed statement of the items of a plaintiff's demand in an action, or of the defendant's set-off. -- Bill of rights, a summary of rights and privileges claimed by a people. Such was the declaration presented by the Lords and Commons of England to the Prince and Princess of Orange in 1688, and enacted in Parliament after they became king and queen. In America, a bill or declaration of rights is prefixed to most of the constitutions of the several States. -- Bill of sale, a formal instrument for the conveyance or transfer of goods and chattels. -- Bill of sight, a form of entry at the customhouse, by which goods, respecting which the importer is not possessed of full information, may be provisionally landed for examination. -- Bill of store, a license granted at the customhouse to merchants, to carry such stores and provisions as are necessary for a voyage, custom free. Wharton. -- Bills payable (pl.), the outstanding unpaid notes or acceptances made and issued by an individual or firm. -- Bills receivable (pl.), the unpaid promissory notes or acceptances held by an individual or firm. McElrath. -- A true bill, a bill of indictment sanctioned by a grand jury. BILL Bill, v. t. 1. To advertise by a bill or public notice. 2. To charge or enter in a bill; as, to bill goods. BILLABONG Bil"la*bong`, n. [Native name.] Defn: In Australia, a blind channel leading out from a river; -- sometimes called an anabranch. This is the sense of the word as used in the Public Works Department; but the term has also been locally applied to mere back-waters forming stagnant pools and to certain water channels arising from a source. BILLAGE Bil"lage, n. Defn: and v. t. & i. Same as Bilge. BILLARD Bil"lard, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: An English fish, allied to the cod; the coalfish. [Written also billet and billit.] BILLBEETLE; BILLBUG Bill`bee"tle, or Bill"bug`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: A weevil or curculio of various species, as the corn weevil. See Curculio. BILLBOARD Bill"board`, n. 1. (Naut.) Defn: A piece of thick plank, armed with iron plates, and fixed on the bow or fore channels of a vessel, for the bill or fluke of the anchor to rest on. Totten. 2. A flat surface, as of a panel or of a fence, on which bills are posted; a bulletin board. BILL BOOK Bill" book`. (Com.) Defn: A book in which a person keeps an account of his notes, bills, bills of exchange, etc., thus showing all that he issues and receives. BILL BROKER Bill" bro`ker. Defn: One who negotiates the discount of bills. BILLED Billed, a. Defn: Furnished with, or having, a bill, as a bird; -- used in composition; as, broad-billed. BILLET Bil"let, n. Etym: [F. billet, dim. of an OF. bille bill. See Bill a writing.] 1. A small paper; a note; a short letter. "I got your melancholy billet." Sterne. 2. A ticket from a public officer directing soldiers at what house to lodge; as, a billet of residence. BILLET Bil"let, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Billeted; p. pr. & vb. n. Billeting.] Etym: [From Billet a ticket.] (Mil.) Defn: To direct, by a ticket or note, where to lodge. Hence: To quarter, or place in lodgings, as soldiers in private houses. Billeted in so antiquated a mansion. W. Irving. BILLET Bil"let, n. Etym: [F. billette, bille, log; of unknown origin; a different word from bille ball. Cf. Billiards, Billot.] 1. A small stick of wood, as for firewood. They shall beat out my brains with billets. Shak. 2. (Metal.) Defn: A short bar of metal, as of gold or iron. 3. (Arch.) Defn: An ornament in Norman work, resembling a billet of wood either square or round. 4. (Saddlery) (a) A strap which enters a buckle. (b) A loop which receives the end of a buckled strap. Knight. 5. (Her.) Defn: A bearing in the form of an oblong rectangle. BILLET-DOUX Bil`let-doux", n.; pl. Billets-doux. Etym: [F. billet note + doux sweet, L. dulcis.] Defn: A love letter or note. A lover chanting out a billet-doux. Spectator. BILLETHEAD Bil"let*head`, n. (Naut.) Defn: A round piece of timber at the bow or stern of a whaleboat, around which the harpoon lone is run out when the whale darts off. BILLFISH Bill"fish`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: A name applied to several distinct fishes: (a) The garfish (Tylosurus, or Belone, longirostris) and allied species. (b) The saury, a slender fish of the Atlantic coast (Scomberesox saurus). (c) The Tetrapturus albidus, a large oceanic species related to the swordfish; the spearfish. (d) The American fresh-water garpike (Lepidosteus osseus). BILLHEAD Bill"head`, n. Defn: A printed form, used by merchants in making out bills or rendering accounts. BILL HOLDER Bill" hold`er. 1. A person who holds a bill or acceptance. 2. A device by means of which bills, etc., are held. BILLHOOK Bill"hook`, n. Etym: [Bill + hook.] Defn: A thick, heavy knife with a hooked point, used in pruning hedges, etc. When it has a short handle, it is sometimes called a hand bill; when the handle is long, a hedge bill or scimiter. BILLIARD Bil"liard, a. Defn: Of or pertaining to the game of billiards. "Smooth as is a billiard ball." B. Jonson. BILLIARDS Bil"liards, n. Etym: [F. billiard billiards, OF. billart staff, cue form playing, fr. bille log. See Billet a stick.] Defn: A game played with ivory balls o a cloth-covered, rectangular table, bounded by elastic cushions. The player seeks to impel his ball with his cue so that it shall either strike (carom upon) two other balls, or drive another ball into one of the pockets with which the table sometimes is furnished. BILLING Bill"ing, a. & n. Defn: Caressing; kissing. BILLINGSGATE Bil"lings*gate`, n. 1. A market near the Billings gate in London, celebrated for fish and foul language. 2. Coarsely abusive, foul, or profane language; vituperation; ribaldry. BILLION Bil"lion, n. Etym: [F. billion, arbitrarily formed fr. L. bis twice, in imitation of million a million. See Million.] Defn: According to the French and American method of numeration, a thousand millions, or 1,000,000,000; according to the English method, a million millions, or 1,000,000,000,000. See Numeration. BILLMAN Bill"man, n.; pl. Billmen (. Defn: One who uses, or is armed with, a bill or hooked ax. "A billman of the guard." Savile. BILLON Bil`lon", n. Etym: [F. Cf. Billet a stick.] Defn: An alloy of gold and silver with a large proportion of copper or other base metal, used in coinage. BILLOT Bil"lot, n. Etym: [F. billot, dim. of bille. See Billet a stick.] Defn: Bullion in the bar or mass. BILLOW Bil"low, n. Etym: [Cf. Icel. bylgja billow, Dan. bölge, Sw. bölja; akin to MHG. bulge billow, bag, and to E. bulge. See Bulge.] 1. A great wave or surge of the sea or other water, caused usually by violent wind. Whom the winds waft where'er the billows roll. Cowper. 2. A great wave or flood of anything. Milton. BILLOW Bil"low, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Billowed; p. pr. & vb. n. Billowing.] Defn: To surge; to rise and roll in waves or surges; to undulate. "The billowing snow." Prior. BILLOWY Bil"low*y, a. Defn: Of or pertaining to billows; swelling or swollen into large waves; full of billows or surges; resembling billows. And whitening down the many-tinctured stream, Descends the billowy foam. Thomson. BILLPOSTER; BILLSTICKER Bill"post`er, Bill"stick"er, n. Defn: One whose occupation is to post handbills or posters in public places. BILLY Bil"ly, n. 1. A club; esp., a policeman's club. 2. (Wool Manuf.) Defn: A slubbing or roving machine. BILLYBOY Bil"ly*boy`, n. Defn: A flat-bottomed river barge or coasting vessel. [Eng.] BILLYCOCK; BILLYCOCK HAT Bil"ly*cock, n., or Bil"ly*cock hat`. [Perh. from bully + cock; that is, cocked like the hats of the bullies.] Defn: A round, low-crowned felt hat; a wideawake. "The undignified billycocks and pantaloons of the West." B. H. Chamberlain. Little acquiesced, and Ransome disguised him in a beard, and a loose set of clothes, and a billicock hat. Charles Reade. BILLY GOAT Bil"ly goat`. Defn: A male goat. [Colloq.] BILOBATE Bi*lo"bate, a. Etym: [Pref. bi- + lobate.] Defn: Divided into two lobes or segments. BILOBED Bi"lobed, a. Etym: [Pref. bi- + lobe.] Defn: Bilobate. BILOCATION Bi`lo*ca"tion, n. Etym: [Pref. bi- + location.] Defn: Double location; the state or power of being in two places at the same instant; -- a miraculous power attributed to