[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #55148]

I had never felt before, nor had I even suspected my own capacity for the feeling. So, perhaps, Philippe de Saluce felt when he destroyed his lover in a sudden accession of fury. I do not know, but I know that from behind some veil in my mind a new man stepped out, as Monsieur Hyde stepped from the soul of Monsieur Jekyll, and that I smashed and smashed for the pure pleasure, and from the vicious lust of destruction. Condemned to act by Fate, I revenged myself after the fashion of a tiger. Then, tearing a brocaded curtain down from its attachments, I spread it over the glass-splintered edge of the sill, crawled over it, lowered myself, dropped, and was free. As I stood on the garden-path, looking up at the ruin I had accomplished, I heard footsteps. The workmen were returning. "Ah, mon Dieu, monsieur!" cried the chief ouvrier, "we had forgotten you. Not till five minutes ago did Jacques remember that monsieur had not left the house when we bolted the door and came away; so we returned, running all the way from Etiolles." So my destruction of the window had been in vain, it would seem! Not so; for, just as at a first debauch the demon of drunkenness enters a man's heart, so at this orgie of destruction did the demon of destruction enter mine. "Joubert," said I that night, as I went to bed, "you have everything ready for to-morrow?" "All is ready," replied Joubert. "You will call me at half-past five." "Yes, monsieur. And your promise?" "My promise?" "To tell me with whom you are going to fight?" "Ah, yes! Well, I have two affairs on to-morrow morning. I am going to scratch Baron Carl von Lichtenberg on the arm, and I am going to drive my sword through M. de Coigny's heart." "Von Lichtenberg!" cried Joubert. "You are going to fight with a Lichtenberg, one of that accursed lot!" "I am going to fight with M. de Coigny. We have been enemies for years; he has mixed himself in this affair; he has offered himself up as a sacrifice----" "Mon Dieu!" cried the old fellow, drawing back, "is it you that are speaking, or the devil?" I was sitting up in bed; and in a mirror across the room I saw the wan reflection of my own face, and started at the expression of wrath and black hatred portrayed there. I had hated De Coigny for years, but not till now did I know my own capacity for hate. Thus we go through life for years not knowing, till some day some hand draws the curtain back, holds up the mirror, reveals the other man, the Monsieur Hyde who has hidden himself at birth in the heart of Monsieur Jekyll. CHAPTER XXXVI THE DUEL "Half-past five!" Joubert was standing by the window, my bath-towels over his arm. He had drawn up the blind, and the light of early morning filled the room. I could have cursed Joubert, for he had awakened me from a most lovely dream. In a full blaze of sunlight I had been walking in the gardens of Lichtenberg with Eloise; we were children again, and little Carl was marching before us, beating his drum. Past the fountains, past the Running Man carved in stone, we went, then into the shade of the forest, led by little Carl towards some great but indefinable happiness. "Where are they?" I murmured, half unconscious that I was speaking, and rubbing my eyes as if to bring back the happy vision. "Who?" asked Joubert. I did not answer him. Who, indeed? Those children for ever vanished. I dressed rapidly, and breakfasted. I felt both nervous and excited, exactly as I had felt on the night of the production of "Undine." Then I sat down to write a line to Franzius and Eloise. I had divided my property, in case of my death, leaving half to my guardian and half to Eloise. The will was with our lawyer, and I said so in a postscript to my note. When I had finished, Joubert appeared. "The carriage is at the door." I sealed the letter, and handed it to him. "In case of accidents," said I, "post this." Joubert saluted, and put it in his pocket without glancing at the superscription. Joubert was grave. He had never saluted me before, except in a spirit of half mockery--the way one would salute a child. I had been a child in his eyes until now, but now I was evidently a man, his master; and nothing seemed, up to this, to have divided me so sharply from my childhood and my past as this suddenly begotten change in Joubert's manner; and as I stepped from the hall-door on to the pavement I felt that I was stepping for the first time into the world of manhood; that all had been play with me till now, and that now, this morning, the grim business of life had begun. Joubert got on the box beside the coachman, and we started. The early sun was bright on the trees and houses of the Champs Elysées; the trees of the Bois de Boulogne were waving in the early morning breeze; all was bright and all was fair; and it seemed a pity--a thousand pities--to have to die a morning like this, to shut one's eyes for ever, and never more see the sun. As we drew near our destination, I felt exactly as I often had felt in childhood when at the door of the dentist's: a strong desire to return home, coupled with a strong repugnance to face what had to be done. The avenue of the Minimes has vanished. It was a lovely place, tree-sheltered and leading by a pond where the green rushes whispered beneath silvery willows, making a picture after the heart of Puvis de Chavannes. It opened out of a broad drive, and was a favourite spot for the settlement of affairs of honour. "We are first," cried Joubert, turning his head. I stood up. Yes; there was no other carriage; in fact, we were ten minutes before our time--a great mistake, for a ten minutes' wait in an affair of this description is one of the most unsettling things possible for the nerves of a man. We drew up near the entrance to the Avenue des Minimes, and, getting out, I paced up and down, for the early morning was chilly, though it gave promise of a glorious day. Ah! here they came--at least, some of them. A carriage rapidly driven was coming along the drive. There were three gentlemen in it, my seconds, De Brissac and M. de Champfleury, and a tall personage who turned out to be Colonel Savernac, the extra friend whom I had asked De Brissac to bring. We had scarcely exchanged greetings when another carriage arrived, containing De Coigny and Baron Struve--who were the seconds of the Baron Carl von Lichtenberg--and Dr. Pons, the surgeon. The seconds of either party bowed one to the other. De Brissac took out his watch. "What time do you make it, M. de Coigny?" "Five minutes to the hour," replied De Coigny. "Ah! I make it the hour. My watch is set by the Observatory clock. Still, perhaps it may have gone wrong. Make it, then, five minutes to the hour. And hi! there! Move on those carriages. We are as noticeable as the front of the Opera House; and should a mounted gendarme come this way there will be trouble." "Monsieur," said Joubert, jumping down as the carriages moved off, "you promised." "Yes," said I, half to Joubert, half to De Brissac. "I promised. You may remain as a spectator--at a distance." "A servant!" said De Coigny. "No, Monsieur de Coigny," I replied; "a faithful friend, and a soldier of Napoleon." De Coigny turned on his heel, and began talking to Dr. Pons, who stood with a mahogany case under his arm. "Notice," I said to De Brissac. "De Coigny has turned his back upon me; but within an hour's time, if I do not fall by the sword of Von Lichtenberg, I will require him to turn his face to me." "You are going to----" "Kill him," I replied. De Brissac shrugged his shoulders, and looked again at his watch. "I make it five minutes past the hour, M. de Coigny." De Coigny looked at his watch and nodded. "By the way," I heard Champfleury say to one of my adversary's seconds, "has anyone seen anything of M. le Baron Carl von Lichtenberg during the last three months?" "I have not," replied the gentleman addressed, "nor have I met anyone who has. The Prussian Embassy people do not know anything of his whereabouts: he has had leave of absence." "Rest assured," said De Coigny, "he will arrive. He is not a coward." "All the same, he is late," said De Brissac. I