[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

Etym: [L., he supplicates.] (Eng. Universities) Defn: A petition; esp., a written one, with a certificate that the conditions have been complied with. SUPPLICATE Sup"pli*cate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Supplicated; p. pr. & vb. n. Supplicating.] Etym: [L. supplicatus, p.p. of supplicare to supplicate; of uncertain origin, cf. supplex, supplicis, humbly begging or entreating; perhaps fr. sub under + a word akin to placare to reconcile, appease (cf. Placable), or fr. sub under + plicare to fold, whence the idea of bending the knees (cf. Ply, v. t.). Cf. Supple.] 1. To entreat for; to seek by earnest prayer; to ask for earnestly and humbly; as, to supplicate blessings on Christian efforts to spread the gospel. 2. To address in prayer; to entreat as a supplicant; as, to supplicate the Deity. Syn. -- To beseech; entreat; beg; petition; implore; importune; solicit; crave. See Beseech. SUPPLICATE Sup"pli*cate, v. i. Defn: To make petition with earnestness and submission; to implore. A man can not brook to supplicate or beg. Bacon. SUPPLICATINGLY Sup"pli*ca`ting*ly, adv. Defn: In a supplicating manner. SUPPLICATION Sup`pli*ca"tion, n. Etym: [F. supplication, L. supplicatio.] 1. The act of supplicating; humble and earnest prayer, as in worship. 2. A humble petition; an earnest request; an entreaty. 3. (Rom. Antiq.) Defn: A religious solemnity observed in consequence of some military success, and also, in times of distress and danger, to avert the anger of the gods. Syn. -- Entreaty; petition; solicitation; craving. SUPPLICATOR Sup"pli*ca`tor, n. Etym: [L.] Defn: One who supplicates; a supplicant. SUPPLICATORY Sup"pli*ca*to*ry, a. Etym: [Cf. F. supplicatoire.] Defn: Containing supplication; humble; earnest. SUPPLIER Sup*pli"er, n. Defn: One who supplies. SUPPLY Sup*ply", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Supplied; p. pr. & vb. n. Supplying.] Etym: [For older supploy, F. suppléer, OF. also supployer, (assumed) LL. suppletare, from L. supplere, suppletum; sub under + plere to fill, akin to plenus full. See Plenty.] 1. To fill up, or keep full; to furnish with what is wanted; to afford, or furnish with, a sufficiency; as, rivers are supplied by smaller streams; an aqueduct supplies an artificial lake; -- often followed by with before the thing furnished; as, to supply a furnace with fuel; to supply soldiers with ammunition. 2. To serve instead of; to take the place of. Burning ships the banished sun supply. Waller. The sun was set, and Vesper, to supply His absent beams, had lighted up the sky. Dryden. 3. To fill temporarily; to serve as substitute for another in, as a vacant place or office; to occupy; to have possession of; as, to supply a pulpit. 4. To give; to bring or furnish; to provide; as, to supply money for the war. Prior. Syn. -- To furnish; provide; administer; minister; contribute; yield; accommodate. SUPPLY Sup*ply", n.; pl. Supplies (. 1. The act of supplying; supplial. A. Tucker. 2. That which supplies a want; sufficiency of things for use or want. Specifically: -- (a) Auxiliary troops or reënforcements. "My promised supply of horsemen." Shak. (b) The food, and the like, which meets the daily necessities of an army or other large body of men; store; -- used chiefly in the plural; as, the army was discontented for lack of supplies. (c) An amount of money provided, as by Parliament or Congress, to meet the annual national expenditures; generally in the plural; as, to vote supplies. (d) A person who fills a place for a time; one who supplies the place of another; a substitute; esp., a clergyman who supplies a vacant pulpit. Stated supply (Eccl.), a clergyman employed to supply a pulpit for a definite time, but not settled as a pastor. [U.S.] -- Supply and demand. (Polit. Econ.) "Demand means the quantity of a given article which would be taken at a given price. Supply means the quantity of that article which could be had at that price." F. A. Walker. SUPPLY Sup*ply", a. Defn: Serving to contain, deliver, or regulate a supply of anything; as, a supply tank or valve. Supply system (Zoöl.), the system of tubes and canals in sponges by means of which food and water are absorbed. See Illust. of Spongiæ. SUPPLYANT Sup*ply"ant, a. Defn: Supplying or aiding; auxiliary; suppletory. [Obs.] Shak. SUPPLYMENT Sup*ply"ment, n. Defn: A supplying or furnishing; supply. [Obs.] Shak. SUPPORT Sup*port", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Supported; p. pr. & vb. n. Supporting.] Etym: [F. supporter, L. supportare to carry on, to convey, in LL., to support, sustain; sub under + portare to carry. See Port demeanor.] 1. To bear by being under; to keep from falling; to uphold; to sustain, in a literal or physical sense; to prop up; to bear the weight of; as, a pillar supports a structure; an abutment supports an arch; the trunk of a tree supports the branches. 2. To endure without being overcome, exhausted, or changed in character; to sustain; as, to support pain, distress, or misfortunes. This fierce demeanor and his insolence The patience of a god could not support. Dryden. 3. To keep from failing or sinking; to solace under affictive circumstances; to assist; to encourage; to defend; as, to support the courage or spirits. 4. To assume and carry successfully, as the part of an actor; to represent or act; to sustain; as, to support the character of King Lear. 5. To furnish with the means of sustenance or livelihood; to maintain; to provide for; as, to support a family; to support the ministers of the gospel. 6. To carry on; to enable to continue; to maintain; as, to support a war or a contest; to support an argument or a debate. 7. To verify; to make good; to substantiate; to establish; to sustain; as, the testimony is not sufficient to support the charges; the evidence will not support the statements or allegations. To urge such arguments, as though they were sufficient to support and demonstrate a whole scheme of moral philosophy. J. Edwards. 8. To vindicate; to maintain; to defend successfully; as, to be able to support one's own cause. 9. To uphold by aid or countenance; to aid; to help; to back up; as, to support a friend or a party; to support the present administration. Wherefore, bold pleasant, Darest thou support a published traitor Shak. 10. A attend as an honorary assistant; as, a chairman supported by a vice chairman; O'Connell left the prison, supported by his two sons. Support arms (Mil.), a command in the manual of arms in responce to which the piece is held vertically at the shoulder, with the hammer resting on the left forearm, which is passed horizontally across the body in front; also, the position assumed in response to this command. Syn. -- To maintain; endure; verify; substantiate; countenance; patronize; help; back; second; succor; relieve; uphold; encourage; favor; nurture; nourish; cherish; shield; defend; protect; stay; assist; forward. SUPPORT Sup*port", n. Etym: [F.] 1. The act, state, or operation of supporting, upholding, or sustaining. 2. That which upholds, sustains, or keeps from falling, as a prop, a pillar, or a foundation of any kind. 3. That which maintains or preserves from being overcome, falling, yielding, sinking, giving way, or the like; subsistence; maintenance; assistance; reënforcement; as, he gave his family a good support, the support of national credit; the assaulting column had the support of a battery. Points of support (Arch.), the horizontal area of the solids of a building, walls, piers, and the like, as compared with the open or vacant spaces. -- Right of support (Law), an easement or servitude by which the owner of a house has a right to rest his timber on the walls of his neighbor's house. Kent. Syn. -- Stay; prop; maintenance; subsistence; assistance; favor; countenance; encouragement; patronage; aid; help; succor; nutriment; sustenance; food. SUPPORTABLE Sup*port"a*ble, a. Etym: [Cf. F. supportable.] Defn: Capable of being supported, maintained, or endured; endurable. -- Sup*port"a*ble*ness, n. -- Sup*port"a*bly, adv. SUPPORTANCE Sup*port"ance, n. Defn: Support. [Obs.] Shak. SUPPORTATION Sup`por*ta"tion, n. Defn: Maintenance; support. [Obs.] Chaucer. Bacon. SUPPORTER Sup*port"er, n. 1. One who, or that which, supports; as, oxygen is a supporter of life. The sockets and supporters of flowers are figured. Bacon. The saints have a . . . supporter in all their miseries. South. 2. Especially, an adherent; one who sustains, advocates, and defends; as, the supporter of a party, faction, or candidate. 3. (Shipbuilding) Defn: A knee placed under the cathead. 4. (Her.) Defn: A figure, sometimes of a man, but commonly of some animal, placed on either side of an escutcheon, and exterior to it. Usually, both supporters of an escutcheon are similar figures. 5. (Med.) Defn: A broad band or truss for supporting the abdomen or some other part or organ. SUPPORTFUL Sup*port"ful, a. Defn: Abounding with support. [Obs.] Chapman. SUPPORTLESS Sup*port"less, a. Defn: Having no support. Milton. SUPPORTMENT Sup*port"ment, n. Defn: Support. [Obs.] Sir H. Wotton. SUPPORTRESS Sup*port"ress, n. Defn: A female supporter. [R.] You are my gracious patroness and supportress. Massinger. SUPPOSABLE Sup*pos"a*ble, a. Defn: Capable of being supposed,