[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

A ragout or partky roasted game stewed with sauce, wine, bread, and condiments suited to provoke appetite. SALMON Salm"on, n.; pl. Salmons or (collectively) Salmon. Etym: [OE. saumoun, salmon, F. saumon, fr. L. salmo, salmonis perhaps from salire to leap. Cf. Sally, v.] 1. (Zoöl.) Defn: Any one of several species of fishes of the genus Salmo and allied genera. The common salmon (Salmo salar) of Northern Europe and Eastern North America, and the California salmon, or quinnat, are the most important species. They are extensively preserved for food. See Quinnat. Note: The salmons ascend rivers and penetrate to their head streams to spawn. They are remarkably strong fishes, and will even leap over considerable falls which lie in the way of their progress. The common salmon has been known to grow to the weight of seventy-five pounds; more generally it is from fifteen to twenty-five pounds. Young salmon are called parr, peal, smolt, and grilse. Among the true salmons are: Black salmon, or Lake salmon, the namaycush. -- Dog salmon, a salmon of Western North America (Oncorhynchus keta). -- Humpbacked salmon, a Pacific-coast salmon (Oncorhynchus gorbuscha). -- King salmon, the quinnat. -- Landlocked salmon, a variety of the common salmon (var. Sebago), long confined in certain lakes in consequence of obstructions that prevented it from returning to the sea. This last is called also dwarf salmon. Among fishes of other families which are locally and erroneously called salmon are: the pike perch, called jack salmon; the spotted, or southern, squeteague; the cabrilla, called kelp salmon; young pollock, called sea salmon; and the California yellowtail. 2. A reddish yellow or orange color, like the flesh of the salmon. Salmon berry (Bot.), a large red raspberry growing from Alaska to California, the fruit of the Rubus Nutkanus. -- Salmon killer (Zoöl.), a stickleback (Gasterosteus cataphractus) of Western North America and Northern Asia. -- Salmon ladder, salmon stair. See Fish ladder, under Fish. -- Salmon peel, a young salmon. -- Salmon pipe, a certain device for catching salmon. Crabb. -- Salmon trout. (Zoöl.) (a) The European sea trout (Salmo trutta). It resembles the salmon, but is smaller, and has smaller and more numerous scales. (b) The American namaycush. (c) A name that is also applied locally to the adult black spotted trout (Salmo purpuratus), and to the steel head and other large trout of the Pacific coast. SALMON Salm"on, a. Defn: Of a reddish yellow or orange color, like that of the flesh of the salmon. SALMONET Salm"on*et, n. Etym: [Cf. Samlet.] (Zoöl.) Defn: A salmon of small size; a samlet. SALMONOID Sal"mon*oid, a. Etym: [Salmon + -oid.] (Zoöl.) Defn: Like, or pertaining to, the Salmonidæ, a family of fishes including the trout and salmon. -- n. Defn: Any fish of the family Salmonidæ. SALOGEN Sal"o*gen, n. Etym: [L. sal salt + -gen.] (Chem.) Defn: A halogen. [Obs.] SALOL Sal"ol, n. Etym: [Salicylic + -ol.] (Chem.) Defn: A white crystalline substance consisting of phenol salicylate. SALOMETER sa*lom"e*ter, n. Defn: See Salimeter. SALOMETRY Sa*lom"e*try, n. Defn: Salimetry. SALON Sa`lon", n. Etym: [F. See Saloon.] Defn: An apartment for the reception of company; hence, in the plural, faschionable parties; circles of fashionable society. SALON Sa`lon", n. Defn: An apartment for the reception and exhibition of works of art; hence, an annual exhibition of paintings, sculptures, etc., held in Paris by the Society of French Artists; -- sometimes called the Old Salon. New Salon is a popular name for an annual exhibition of paintings, sculptures, etc., held in Paris at the Champs de Mars, by the Société Nationale des Beaux-Arts (National Society of Fine Arts), a body of artists who, in 1890, seceded from the Société des Artistes Français (Society of French Artists). SALOON Sa*loon", n. Etym: [F. salon (cf. It. salone), fr. F. salle a large room, a hall, of German or Dutch origin; cf. OHG. sal house, hall, G. saal; akin to AS. sæl, sele, D. zaal, Icel. salr, Goth. saljan to dwell, and probably to L. solum ground. Cf. Sole of the foot, Soil ground, earth.] 1. A spacious and elegant apartment for the reception of company or for works of art; a hall of reception, esp. a hall for public entertainments or amusements; a large room or parlor; as, the saloon of a steamboat. The gilden saloons in which the first magnates of the realm . . . gave banquets and balls. Macaulay. 2. Popularly, a public room for specific uses; esp., a barroom or grogshop; as, a drinking saloon; an eating saloon; a dancing saloon. We hear of no hells, or low music halls, or low dancing saloons [at Athens.] J. P. Mahaffy. SALOOP Sa*loop", n. Defn: An aromatic drink prepared from sassafras bark and other ingredients, at one time much used in London. J. Smith (Dict. econ. Plants). Saloop bush (Bot.), an Australian shrub (Rhagodia hastata) of the Goosefoot family, used for fodder. SALP Salp, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: Any species of Salpa, or of the family Salpidæ. SALPA Sal"pa, n.; pl. L. Salpæ, E. Salpas. Etym: [NL.: cf. L. salpa a kind of stockfish.] (Zoöl.) Defn: A genus of transparent, tubular, free-swimming oceanic tunicates found abundantly in all the warmer latitudes. See Illustration in Appendix. Note: Each species exists in two distinct forms, one of which lives solitary, and produces, by budding from an internal organ, a series of the other kind. These are united together, side by side, so as to form a chain, or cluster, often of large size. Each of the individuals composing the chain carries a single egg, which develops into the solitary kind. SALPIAN; SALPID Sal"pi*an, Sal"pid, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: A salpa. SALPICON Sal"pi*con, n. Etym: [F. salpicon, Sp. salpicon.] Defn: Chopped meat, bread, etc., used to stuff legs of veal or other joints; stuffing; farce. Bacon. SALPINGITIS Sal`pin*gi"tis, n. Etym: [NL. See Salpinx, and -itis.] (Med.) Defn: Inflammation of the salpinx. SALPINX Sal"pinx, n. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Old Anat.) Defn: The Eustachian tube, or the Fallopian tube. SALSAFY Sal"sa*fy, n. (Bot.) Defn: See Salsify. SALSAMENTARIOUS Sal`sa*men*ta"ri*ous, a. Etym: [L. salsamentarius, fr. salsamentum brine, pickled fish, fr. salsus salted, p.p. of salire to salt.] Defn: Salt; salted; saline. [R.] SALSE Salse, n. Etym: [F.] Defn: A mud volcano, the water of which is often impregnated with salts, whence the name. SALSIFY Sal"si*fy, n. Etym: [F. salsifis.] (Bot.) Defn: See Oyster plant (a), under Oyster. SALSO-ACID Sal"so-ac`id, a. Etym: [L. salsus salted, salt + acidus acid.] Defn: Having a taste compounded of saltness and acidity; both salt and acid. [R.] SALSODA Sal`so"da, n. Defn: See Sal soda, under Sal. SALSOLA Sal"so*la, n. Etym: [NL., fr. L. salsus salt, because they contain alkaline salts.] (Bot.) Defn: A genus of plants including the glasswort. See Glasswort. SALSUGINOUS sal*su"gi*nous, a. Etym: [L. salsugo, -ginis, saltness from salsus salted, salt: cf. F. salsugineux.] (Bot.) Defn: Growing in brackish places or in salt marches. SALT Salt, n. Etym: [AS. sealt; akin to OS. & OFries. salt, D. zout, G. salz, Icel., Sw., & Dan. salt, L. sal, Gr. sole, Ir. & Gael. salann, W. halen, of unknown origin. Cf. Sal, Salad, Salary, Saline, Sauce, Sausage.] 1. The chloride of sodium, a substance used for seasoning food, for the preservation of meat, etc. It is found native in the earth, and is also produced, by evaporation and crystallization, from sea water and other water impregnated with saline particles. 2. Hence, flavor; taste; savor; smack; seasoning. Though we are justices and doctors and churchmen . . . we have some salt of our youth in us. Shak. 3. Hence, also, piquancy; wit; sense; as, Attic salt. 4. A dish for salt at table; a saltcellar. I out and bought some things; among others, a dozen of silver salts. Pepys. 5. A sailor; -- usually qualified by old. [Colloq.] Around the door are generally to be seen, laughing and gossiping, clusters of old salts. Hawthorne. 6. (Chem.) Defn: The neutral compound formed by the union of an acid base; thus, sulphuric acid and iron form the salt sulphate of iron or green vitriol. Note: Except in case of ammonium salts, accurately speaking, it is the acid radical which unites with the base or basic radical, with the elimination of hydrogen, of water, or of analogous compounds as side products. In the case of diacid and triacid bases, and of dibasic and tribasic acids, the mutual neutralization may vary in degree, producing respectively basic, neutral, or acid salts See Phrases below. 7. Fig.: That which preserves from corruption or error; that which purifies; a corrective; an antiseptic; also, an allowance or deduction; as, his statements must be taken with a grain of salt. Ye are the salt of the earth. Matt. v. 13. 8. pl. Defn: Any mineral salt used as an aperient or cathartic, especially Epsom salts, Rochelle salt, or Glauber's salt. 9. pl. Defn: Marches flooded by the tide. [Prov. Eng.] Above the salt, Below the salt, phrases which have survived the old custom, in the houses of people of rank,