[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #55148]

the form that was crushing me and the pillow that was smothering me; and shriek upon shriek--the most horrid, the most unearthly, the most soul-sickening--shriek after shriek tore the air; and, jumping upon my feet, standing on the bed with arms outspread, I gazed on the sight before me, adding my thin voice to the outcries that were piercing the schloss from cellar to turret. On the floor, lit for my view by the halfpenny nightlight calmly burning in its little dish, Marengo and a man were at war--and the victory was with Marengo. The great dog had got the man by the back of the neck. The man, face down, was drumming on the floor with his fists and feet, just as you see an angry child in a fit of passion. The dog was dumb, and making mighty efforts to turn the man on his face. He lifted him, he shifted him, he dragged him hither and thither. The man, screaming, knew what the dog wanted, and clung to the floor. Suddenly the dog sprang away, and, like a flash of lightning, sprang back. He had got the throat-hold, and a deep gobbling, worrying sound was the end of the man and his hunting for ever. For the man was Vogel. I saw that, and then I saw nothing more. CHAPTER XI THE DUEL IN THE WOOD When I regained consciousness I was in my father's room, lying on the bed. Joubert was sitting on the bed beside me. "Joubert," said I, "where is he?" "Who?" "Vogel." "God knows!" said Joubert. "Here, drink this." It was brandy, and it nearly took my breath away, but it gave me life. "Now," said Joubert, putting the glass on the table by the bed and taking my small trousers in his hand, "put these on." "Why am I to dress, Joubert?" "We are going away. Ah, fine doings there have been! And who knows the end of it all?" As he helped me to dress, he told me of what had occurred. The gentlemen below had been playing cards when the shrieks of Vogel had sundered the cardplayers like the sword of death. Rushing upstairs, they had found Marengo guarding the dead body of Vogel, and me standing on the bed screaming. When my father caught me in his arms, I told all. Of Vogel's attempt to smother me, of the knife I had found in my pillow, and of the occurrence in the bell-tower. It must have been my subconscious intelligence speaking, for I remember nothing of it; but it was enough. "Then," said Joubert, "the General, with you tucked under his left arm, turned on the Baron. 'What is this?' said he. 'Assassination in the Schloss Lichtenberg!'" "'Liar!' cried the Baron. And before the word was well from his mouth, crack! the General had hit him open-fisted in the face, and the mark sprang up as if the General had hit him red-handed. Mordieu! I never saw a neater blow given, or one so taken, for the Baron never blinked. He just nodded his head, as if to say, 'Yes.' Then he put his arm in Count Hahn's, and the General turned to Major von der Goltz, and, taking him by the arm, followed the others. Then word came to pack up and have you ready, for we are leaving the schloss this night. Now then, vite!" "But, Joubert, I remember nothing of all that." "All what?" "Telling my father of Vogel and the bell." "Well, whether you remember it or not, there it is." "And the knife---- Joubert, did you not, you yourself, stick the knife in the pillow?" "I!" said Joubert. "When would you catch me playing such fool's tricks as that?" "Joubert." "Yes?" "I think I know why they wanted to kill me." "Why?" "Because they thought I would kill little Carl." Joubert grunted. "Here," said he, "hold up your foot till I lace that boot." Scarcely had he done so before General Hahn appeared at the door. "Dress the child, pack, and be ready to leave the schloss at once!" he cried to Joubert. "The horses are being got ready." "I have my orders," replied Joubert. He grumbled and talked to himself, and swore, as he got the rest of my clothes on, for I was quite unable to help myself. And then, when I was ready, he gave me a great, smacking kiss that nearly took my breath away, and his hand was shaky, and I had never seen it shake before, and he had never kissed me before in his life. Then he left me sitting on the bed, and I heard him in the next room, where the dead man was, packing my things. In the midst of all this, the castle clock struck eleven. And now from below came the trampling of horses, and the crash of wheels on gravel, and the harsh German voices of the servants. Doors banged, and a man came up, flung our door open, and cried: "Ready!" And Joubert, with a portmanteau on his shoulder, led me along by the hand down the corridor, the servant following with the rest of our luggage. Down in the hall, which was brilliantly lit, Major von der Goltz and my father stood talking together in one corner, and Von Lichtenberg and General Hahn stood by the great fireplace, their hands behind them, neither of them speaking, and both with their eyes on the floor as if in profound thought. And I noticed that the great red mark on the Baron's cheek was still there, just as if a blood-stained hand had struck him. When they saw us coming, with Marengo following us, Von Lichtenberg and the General took their hats from a table close by and walked towards the door, which was opened for them by a servant. General Hahn held under his arm a bundle done up in a cloak, and from it protruded two sword-hilts. My father, taking my hand and followed by Major von der Goltz, came after the Baron. It was a clear and windy night; flying clouds were passing over the moon. Two carriages were drawn up at the door, and a dozen men with torches blazing and blowing in the wind gave light whilst our luggage was put in. The first carriage was our own, the second a carriage belonging to the schloss. Joubert put our luggage in and mounted on the box; then my father, bowing to Major von der Goltz, held the door open; the Major, with a slight bow to my father, got in; we followed, the carriage started, running torchmen leading us and following behind. "Are we truly going away, father?" I asked nestling close to him and holding his hand. "Yes, my child; we are going away." "Why are those men with torches running with us?" "You will see--you will see. Major von der Goltz, I hope those words I have just said to you will not be forgotten in the event----" "They shall be remembered," said the Major. Up to this all the company at the schloss had been hail-fellow-well-met one with the other. My father had addressed Von der Goltz as Franz, and the Major had been just as familiar in his manner, but all this was now changed. The two men were as stiff and formal as though they had never met before, one facing the other, bolt upright, and with heads somewhat averted, as I could see by the dancing torchlight; and in my childish heart I wondered at this. As we slowed up to pass the great gates of the avenue, I heard the wheels of the other carriage coming behind, and as we made the turning, I saw it, with the light of the torches glinting on the headpieces of the horses, and behind the carriage the plumes of the pine-trees showed against the moon, and they looked like the plumes of a hearse. The estate of Von Lichtenberg stretched for a mile and more beyond the gates; and it seems that it is not etiquette to kill a man on his own estate, no more than it is etiquette to strike a man in his own house. We took the forest road. Mixed with the sound of hoofs and wheels, I could hear the footsteps of the running torchmen: the flickering light shot in between the tree-boles, disturbing the wood creatures, and, as we went, all of a sudden, the jägers running with us broke out in a chorus of what seemed lamentation mixed with curses. Von der Goltz sprang up on the seat and looked ahead. "A white hare is running before us," said he. "That is bad for Count Carl von Lichtenberg." My father bowed slightly, as if to a half-heard remark. A white hare, it seems, was the sign of death in the house of Lichtenberg. Turning a bend in the road, the carriage drew up. We waited