[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

minister Joshua. Ex. xxiv. 13. I chose Camillo for the minister, to poison My friend Polixenes. Shak. 2. An officer of justice. [Obs.] I cry out the on the ministres, quod he, That shoulde keep and rule this cité. Chaucer. 3. One to whom the sovereign or executive head of a government intrusts the management of affairs of state, or some department of such affairs. Ministers to kings, whose eyes, ears, and hands they are, must be answerable to God and man. Bacon. 4. A representative of a government, sent to the court, or seat of government, of a foreign nation to transact diplomatic business. Note: Ambassadors are classed (in the diplomatic sense) in the first rank of public ministers, ministers plenipotentiary in the second. "The United States diplomatic service employs two classes of ministers, -- ministers plenipotentiary and ministers resident." Abbott. 5. One who serves at the altar; one who performs sacerdotal duties; the pastor of a church duly authorized or licensed to preach the gospel and administer the sacraments. Addison. Syn. -- Delegate; official; ambassador; clergyman; parson; priest. MINISTER Min"is*ter, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Ministered; p. pr. & vb. n. Ministering.] Etym: [OE. ministren, OF. ministrer, fr. L. ministrare. See Minister, n.] Defn: To furnish or apply; to afford; to supply; to administer. He that ministereth seed to the sower. 2 Cor. ix. 10. We minister to God reason to suspect us. Jer. Taylor. MINISTER Min"is*ter, v. i. 1. To act as a servant, attendant, or agent; to attend and serve; to perform service in any office, sacred or secular. The Son of man came not to be ministered unto, but to minister. Matt. xx. 28. 2. To supply or to things needful; esp., to supply consolation or remedies. Matt. xxv. 44. Canst thou not minister to a mind diseased Shak. MINISTERIAL Min`is*te"ri*al, a. Etym: [L. ministerialis: cf. F. ministériel. See Minister, and cf. Minstrel.] 1. Of or pertaining to ministry or service; serving; attendant. Enlightening spirits and ministerial flames. Prior. 2. Of or pertaining to the office of a minister or to the ministry as a body, whether civil or sacerdotal. "Ministerial offices." Bacon. "A ministerial measure." Junius. "Ministerial garments." Hooker. 3. Tending to advance or promote; contributive. "Ministerial to intellectual culture." De Quincey. The ministerial benches, the benches in the House of Commons occupied by members of the cabinet and their supporters; -- also, the persons occupying them. "Very solid and very brilliant talents distinguish the ministerial benches." Burke. Syn. -- Official; priestly; sacerdotal; ecclesiastical. MINISTERIALIST Min`is*te"ri*al*ist, n. Defn: A supporter of the ministers, or the party in power. MINISTERIALLY Min`is*te"ri*al*ly, adv. Defn: In a ministerial manner; in the character or capacity of a minister. MINISTERY Min"is*ter*y, n. Defn: See Ministry. Milton. MINISTRACY Min"is*tra*cy, n. Defn: Ministration. [Obs.] MINISTRAL Min"is*tral, a. Defn: Ministerial. [Obs.] Johnson. MINISTRANT Min"is*trant, a. Etym: [L. ministrans, -antis, of ministrare to minister.] Defn: Performing service as a minister; attendant on service; acting under command; subordinate. "Princedoms and dominations ministrant." Milton. -- n. Defn: One who ministers. MINISTRATION Min`is*tra"tion, n. Etym: [L. ministratio, fr. ministrare.] Defn: The act of ministering; service; ministry. "The days of his ministration." Luke i. 23. MINISTRATIVE Min"is*tra*tive, a. Defn: Serving to aid; ministering. MINISTRESS Min"is*tress, n. Etym: [Cf. L. ministrix.] Defn: A woman who ministers. Akenside. MINISTRY Min"is*try, n.; pl. Ministries. Etym: [L. ministerium. See Minister, n., and cf. Mystery a trade.] 1. The act of ministering; ministration; service. "With tender ministry." Thomson. 2. Hence: Agency; instrumentality. The ordinary ministry of second causes. Atterbury. The wicked ministry of arms. Dryden. 3. The office, duties, or functions of a minister, servant, or agent; ecclesiastical, executive, or ambassadorial function or profession. 4. The body of ministers of state; also, the clergy, as a body. 5. Administration; rule; term in power; as, the ministry of Pitt. MINISTRYSHIP Min"is*try*ship, n. Defn: The office of a minister. Swift. MINIUM Min"i*um, n. Etym: [L. minium, an Iberian word, the Romans getting all their cinnabar from Spain; cf. Basque armineá.] (Chem.) Defn: A heavy, brilliant red pigment, consisting of an oxide of lead, Pb3O4, obtained by exposing lead or massicot to a gentle and continued heat in the air. It is used as a cement, as a paint, and in the manufacture of flint glass. Called also red lead. MINIVER Min"i*ver, n. Etym: [See Meniver.] Defn: A fur esteemed in the Middle Ages as a part of costume. It is uncertain whether it was the fur of one animal only or of different animals. MINIVET Min"i*vet, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: A singing bird of India of the family Campephagidæ. MINK Mink, n. Etym: [Cf. 2d Minx.] (Zoöl.) Defn: A carnivorous mammal of the genus Putorius, allied to the weasel. The European mink is Putorius lutreola. The common American mink (P. vison) varies from yellowish brown to black. Its fur is highly valued. Called also minx, nurik, and vison. MINNESINGER Min"ne*sing`er, n. Etym: [G., fr. minne love + singen to sing.] Defn: A love-singer; specifically, one of a class of German poets and musicians who flourished from about the middle of the twelfth to the middle of the fourteenth century. They were chiefly of noble birth, and made love and beauty the subjects of their verses. MINNOW Min"now, n. Etym: [OE. menow, cf. AS. myne; also OE. menuse, OF. menuise small fish; akin to E. minish, minute.] [Written also minow.] 1. (Zoöl.) Defn: A small European fresh-water cyprinoid fish (Phoxinus lævis, formerly Leuciscus phoxinus); sometimes applied also to the young of larger kinds; -- called also minim and minny. The name is also applied to several allied American species, of the genera Phoxinus, Notropis, or Minnilus, and Rhinichthys. 2. (Zoöl.) Defn: Any of numerous small American cyprinodont fishes of the genus Fundulus, and related genera. They live both in fresh and in salt water. Called also killifish, minny, and mummichog.mummichog MINNY Min"ny, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: A minnow. MINO BIRD Mi"no bird". Etym: [Hind. maina.] (Zoöl.) Defn: An Asiatic bird (Gracula musica), allied to the starlings. It is black, with a white spot on the wings, and a pair of flat yellow wattles on the head. It is often tamed and taught to pronounce words. MINOR Mi"nor, a. Etym: [L., a comparative with no positive; akin to AS. min small, G. minder less, OHG. minniro, a., min, adv., Icel. minni, a., minnr, adv., Goth. minniza, a., mins, adv., Ir. & Gael. min small, tender, L. minuere to lessen, Gr. mi to damage. Cf. Minish, Minister, Minus, Minute.] 1. Inferior in bulk, degree, importance, etc.; less; smaller; of little account; as, minor divisions of a body. 2. (Mus.) Defn: Less by a semitone in interval or difference of pitch; as, a minor third. Asia Minor (Geog.), the Lesser Asia; that part of Asia which lies between the Euxine, or Black Sea, on the north, and the Mediterranean on the south. -- Minor mode (Mus.), that mode, or scale, in which the third and sixth are minor, -- much used for mournful and solemn subjects. -- Minor orders (Eccl.), the rank of persons employed in ecclesiastical offices who are not in holy orders, as doorkeepers, acolytes, etc. -- Minor scale (Mus.) The form of the minor scale is various. The strictly correct form has the third and sixth minor, with a semitone between the seventh and eighth, which involves an augmented second interval, or three semitones, between the sixth and seventh, as, 6/F, 7/G#, 8/A. But, for melodic purposes, both the sixth and the seventh are sometimes made major in the ascending, and minor in the descending, scale, thus: --See Major. -- Minor term of syllogism (Logic), the subject of the conclusion. MINOR Mi"nor, n. 1. A person of either sex who has not attained the age at which full civil rights are accorded; an infant; in England and the United States, one under twenty-one years of age. Note: In hereditary monarchies, the minority of a sovereign ends at an earlier age than of a subject. The minority of a sovereign of Great Britain ends upon the completion of the eighteenth year of his age. 2. (Logic) Defn: The minor term, that is, the subject of the conclusion; also, the minor premise, that is, that premise which contains the minor term; in hypothetical syllogisms, the categorical premise. It is the second proposition of a regular syllogism, as in the following: Every act of injustice partakes of meanness; to take money from another by gaming is an act of injustice; therefore, the taking of money from another by gaming partakes of meanness. 3. A Minorite; a Franciscan friar. MINORAT Mi`no*rat", n. [G. Cf. Minor, a.] (Law) Defn: A custom or right, analogous to borough-English in England, formerly existing in various parts of Europe, and surviving in parts of Germany and Austria, by which certain entailed estates, as a homestead and adjacent land, descend to the youngest male heir. MINORATE Mi"nor*ate, v. t. Etym: [L. minoratus; p. p. of minorare to diminish, fr. minor, a. See 1st Minor.] Defn: To