[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

6. Not essential or permanent, as parts of a structure which are temporary or supplemental. 7. (Mus.) Defn: Not in tune. False arch (Arch.), a member having the appearance of an arch, though not of arch construction. -- False attic, an architectural erection above the main cornice, concealing a roof, but not having windows or inclosing rooms. -- False bearing, any bearing which is not directly upon a vertical support; thus, the weight carried by a corbel has a false bearing. -- False cadence, an imperfect or interrupted cadence. -- False conception (Med.), an abnormal conception in which a mole, or misshapen fleshy mass, is produced instead of a properly organized fetus. -- False croup (Med.), a spasmodic affection of the larynx attended with the symptoms of membranous croup, but unassociated with the deposit of a fibrinous membrane. -- False door or window (Arch.), the representation of a door or window, inserted to complete a series of doors or windows or to give symmetry. -- False fire, a combustible carried by vessels of war, chiefly for signaling, but sometimes burned for the purpose of deceiving an enemy; also, a light on shore for decoying a vessel to destruction. -- False galena. See Blende. -- False imprisonment (Law), the arrest and imprisonment of a person without warrant or cause, or contrary to law; or the unlawful detaining of a person in custody. -- False keel (Naut.), the timber below the main keel, used to serve both as a protection and to increase the shio's lateral resistance. -- False key, a picklock. -- False leg. (Zoöl.) See Proleg. -- False membrane (Med.), the fibrinous deposit formed in croup and diphtheria, and resembling in appearance an animal membrane. -- False papers (Naut.), documents carried by a ship giving false representations respecting her cargo, destination, ect., for the purpose of deceiving. -- False passage (Surg.), an unnatural passage leading off from a natural canal, such as the urethra, and produced usually by the unskillful introduction of instruments. -- False personation (Law), the intentional false assumption of the name and personality of another. -- False pretenses (Law), false representations concerning past or present facts and events, for the purpose of defrauding another. -- False rail (Naut.), a thin piece of timber placed on top of the head rail to strengthen it. -- False relation (Mus.), a progression in harmony, in which a certain note in a chord appears in the next chord prefixed by a flat or sharp. -- False return (Law), an untrue return made to a process by the officer to whom it was delivered for execution. -- False ribs (Anat.), the asternal rebs, of which there are five pairs in man. -- False roof (Arch.), the space between the upper ceiling and the roof. Oxford Gloss. -- False token, a false mark or other symbol, used for fraudulent purposes. -- False scorpion (Zoöl.), any arachnid of the genus Chelifer. See Book scorpion. -- False tack (Naut.), a coming up into the wind and filling away again on the same tack. -- False vampire (Zoöl.), the Vampyrus spectrum of South America, formerly erroneously supposed to have blood-sucking habits; -- called also vampire, and ghost vampire. The genuine blood-sucking bats belong to the genera Desmodus and Diphylla. See Vampire. -- False window. (Arch.) See False door, above. -- False wing. (Zoöl.) See Alula, and Bastard wing, under Bastard. -- False works (Civil Engin.), construction works to facilitate the erection of the main work, as scaffolding, bridge centering, etc. FALSE False, adv. Defn: Not truly; not honestly; falsely. "You play me false." Shak. FALSE False, v. t. Etym: [L. falsare to falsify, fr. falsus: cf. F. fausser. See False, a.] 1. To report falsely; to falsify. [Obs.] Chaucer. 2. To betray; to falsify. [Obs.] [He] hath his truthe falsed in this wise. Chaucer. 3. To mislead by want of truth; to deceive. [Obs.] In his falsed fancy. Spenser. 4. To feign; to pretend to make. [Obs.] "And falsed oft his blows." Spenser. FALSE-FACED False"-faced`, a. Defn: Hypocritical. Shak. FALSE-HEART False"-heart`, a. Defn: False-hearted. Shak. FALSE-HEARTED False"-heart`ed, a. Defn: Hollow or unsound at the core; treacherous; deceitful; perfidious. Bacon. -- False"*heart`ed*ness, n. Bp. Stillingfleet. FALSEHOOD False"hood, n. Etym: [False + -hood] 1. Want of truth or accuracy; an untrue assertion or representation; error; misrepresentation; falsity. Though it be a lie in the clock, it is but a falsehood in the hand of the dial when pointing at a wrong hour, if rightly following the direction of the wheel which moveth it. Fuller. 2. A deliberate intentional assertion of what is known to be untrue; a departure from moral integrity; a lie. 3. Treachery; deceit; perfidy; unfaithfulness. Betrayed by falsehood of his guard. Shak. 4. A counterfeit; a false appearance; an imposture. For his molten image is falsehood. Jer. x. 14. No falsehood can endure Touch of celestial temper. Milton. Syn. -- Falsity; lie; untruth; fiction; fabrication. See Falsity. FALSELY False"ly, adv. Defn: In a false manner; erroneously; not truly; perfidiously or treacherously. "O falsely, falsely murdered." Shak. Oppositions of science, falsely so called. 1 Tim. vi. 20. Will ye steal, murder . . . and swear falsely Jer. vii. 9. FALSENESS False"ness, n. Defn: The state of being false; contrariety to the fact; inaccuracy; want of integrity or uprightness; double dealing; unfaithfulness; treachery; perfidy; as, the falseness of a report, a drawing, or a singer's notes; the falseness of a man, or of his word. FALSER Fals"er, n. Defn: A deceiver. [Obs.] Spenser. FALSETTO Fal*set"to, n.; pl. Falsettos. Etym: [It. falsetto, dim. fr. L. falsus. See False.] Defn: A false or artificial voice; that voice in a man which lies above his natural voice; the male counter tenor or alto voice. See Head voice, under Voice. FALSICRIMEN Fal"si*cri"men. Etym: [L.] (Civ. Law) Defn: The crime of falsifying. Note: This term in the Roman law included not only forgery, but every species of fraud and deceit. It never has been used in so extensive a sense in modern common law, in which its predominant significance is forgery, though it also includes perjury and offenses of a like character. Burrill. Greenleaf. FALSIFIABLE Fal"si*fi`a*ble, a. Etym: [Cf. OF. falsifiable.] Defn: Capable of being falsified, counterfeited, or corrupted. Johnson. FALSIFICATION Fal`si*fi*ca"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. falsification.] 1. The act of falsifying, or making false; a counterfeiting; the giving to a thing an appearance of something which it is not. To counterfeit the living image of king in his person exceedeth all falsifications. Bacon. 2. Willful misstatement or misrepresentation. Extreme necessity . . . forced him upon this bold and violent falsification of the doctrine of the alliance. Bp. Warburton. 3. (Equity) Defn: The showing an item of charge in an account to be wrong. Story. FALSIFICATOR Fal"si*fi*ca`tor, n. Etym: [Cf. F. falsificateur.] Defn: A falsifier. Bp. Morton. FALSIFIER Fal"si*fi`er, n. Defn: One who falsifies, or gives to a thing a deceptive appearance; a liar. FALSIFY Fal"si*fy, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Falsified; p. pr. & vb. n. Falsifying.] Etym: [L. falsus false + -ly: cf. F. falsifier. See False, a.] 1. To make false; to represent falsely. The Irish bards use to forge and falsify everything as they list, to please or displease any man. Spenser. 2. To counterfeit; to forge; as, to falsify coin. 3. To prove to be false, or untrustworthy; to confute; to disprove; to nullify; to make to appear false. By how much better than my word I am, By so much shall I falsify men's hope. Shak. Jews and Pagans united all their endeavors, under Julian the apostate, to baffie and falsify the prediction. Addison. 4. To violate; to break by falsehood; as, to falsify one's faith or word. Sir P. Sidney. 5. To baffie or escape; as, to falsify a blow. Bulter. 6. (Law) Defn: To avoid or defeat; to prove false, as a judgment. Blackstone. 7. (Equity) Defn: To show, in accounting, (an inem of charge inserted in an account) to be wrong. Story. Daniell. 8. To make false by multilation or addition; to tamper with; as, to falsify a record or document. FALSIFY Fal"si*fy, v. i. Defn: To tell lies; to violate the truth. It is absolutely and universally unlawful to lie and falsify. South. FALSISM Fals"ism, n. Defn: That which is evidently false; an assertion or statement the falsity of which is plainly apparent; -- opposed to truism. FALSITY Fal"si*ty, n.;pl. Falsities. Etym: [L. falsitas: cf. F. fausseté, OF. also, falsité. See False, a.] 1. The quality of being false; coutrariety or want of conformity to truth. Probability does not make any alteration, either in the truth or falsity of things. South. 2. That which is false; falsehood; a lie; a false assertion. Men often swallow falsities for truths. Sir T. Brown. Syn. -- Falsehood; lie; deceit. -- Falsity, Falsehood, Lie. Falsity denotes the state or quality of being false. A falsehood is a false declaration designedly made. A lie is a gross, unblushing falsehood. The falsity of a person's