[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

in the event of success, a share of the matter in suit; maintenance with the addition of an agreement to divide the thing in suit. See Maintenance. Note: By many authorities champerty is defined as an agreement of this nature. From early times the offence of champerty has been forbidden and punishable. CHAMPIGNON Cham*pi"gnon, n. Etym: [F., a mushroom, ultimately fr. L. campus field. See Camp.] (Bot.) Defn: An edible species of mushroom (Agaricus campestris). Fairy ring champignon, the Marasmius oreades, which has a strong flavor but is edible. CHAMPION Cham"pi*on, n. Etym: [F. champion, fr. LL.campio, of German origin; cf. OHG. chempho, chemphio, fighter, champf, G. kampf, contest; perh. influenced by L. campus field, taken in the sense of "field of battle."] 1. One who engages in any contest; esp. one who in ancient times contended in single combat in behalf of another's honor or rights; or one who acts or speaks in behalf of a person or a cause; a defender; an advocate; a hero. A stouter champion never handled sword. Shak. Champions of law and liberty. Fisher Ames. 2. One who by defeating all rivals, has obtained an acknowledged supremacy in any branch of athetics or game of skill, and is ready to contend with any rival; as, the champion of England. Note: Champion is used attributively in the sense of surpassing all competitors; overmastering; as, champion pugilist; champion chess player. Syn. -- Leader; chieftain; combatant; hero; warrior; defender; protector. CHAMPION Cham"pi*on, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Championed; p. pr. & vb. n. Championing.] [Obs.] Shak. 2. To furnish with a champion; to attend or defend as champion; to support or maintain; to protect. Championed or unchampioned, thou diest. Sir W. Scott. CHAMPIONNESS Cham"pi*on*ness, n. Defn: A female champion. Fairfax. CHAMPIONSHIP Cham"pi*on*ship, n. Defn: State of being champion; leadership; supremancy. CHAMPLAIN PERIOD Cham*plain" pe"ri*od. (Geol.) Defn: A subdivision of the Quaternary age immediately following the Glacial period; -- so named from beds near Lake Champlain. Note: The earlier deposits of this period are diluvial in character, as if formed in connection with floods attending the melting of the glaciers, while the later deposits are of finer material in more quiet waters, as the alluvium. CHAMPLEVE Champ`le*vé", a. [F., p. p. of champlever to engrave. See 3d Champ, Camp, Lever a bar.] (Art) Defn: Having the ground engraved or cut out in the parts to be enameled; inlaid in depressions made in the ground; -- said of a kind of enamel work in which depressions made in the surface are filled with enamel pastes, which are afterward fired; also, designating the process of making such enamel work. --n. Defn: A piece of champlevé enamel; also, the process or art of making such enamel work; champlevé work. CHAMSIN Cham*sin", n. Etym: [F.] Defn: See Kamsin. CHANCE Chance, n. Etym: [F. chance, OF. cheance, fr. LL. cadentia a allusion to the falling of the dice), fr. L. cadere to fall; akin to Skr. çad to fall, L. cedere to yield, E. cede. Cf. Cadence.] 1. A supposed material or psychical agent or mode of activity other than a force, law, or purpose; fortune; fate; -- in this sense often personifed. It is strictly and philosophically true in nature and reason that there is no such thing as chance or accident; it being evident that these words do not signify anything really existing, anything that is truly an agent or the cause of any event; but they signify merely men's ignorance of the real and immediate cause. Samuel Clark. Any society into which chance might throw him. Macaulay. That power Which erring men call Chance. Milton. 2. The operation or activity of such agent. By chance a priest came down that way. Luke x. 31. 3. The supposed effect of such an agent; something that befalls, as the result of unknown or unconsidered forces; the issue of uncertain conditions; an event not calculated upon; an unexpected occurrence; a happening; accident; fortuity; casualty. It was a chance that happened to us. 1 Sam. vi. 9. The Knave of Diamonds tries his wily arts, And wins (O shameful chance!) the Queen of Hearts. Pope. I spake of most disastrous chance. Shak. 4. A possibity; a likelihood; an opportunity; -- with reference to a doubtful result; as, a chance result; as, a chance to escape; a chance for life; the chances are all against him. So weary with disasters, tugged with fortune. That I would get my life on any chance, To mend it, or be rid on't Shak. 5. (Math.) Defn: Probability. Note: The mathematical expression, of a chance is the ratio of frequency with which an event happens in the long run. If an event may happen in a ways and may fail in b ways, and each of these a + b ways is equally likely, the chance, or probability, that the event will happen is measured by the fraction a/(a + b), and the chance, or probability, that it will fail is measured by b/(a + b). Chance comer, one who, comes unexpectedly. -- The last chance, the sole remaining ground of hope. -- The main chance, the chief opportunity; that upon which reliance is had, esp. self-interest. -- Theory of chances, Doctrine of chances (Math.), that branch of mathematics which treats of the probability of the occurrence of particular events, as the fall of dice in given positions. -- To mind one's chances, to take advantage of every circumstance; to seize every opportunity. CHANCE Chance, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Chanced; p. pr. & vb. n. Chancing.] Defn: To happen, come, or arrive, without design or expectation. "Things that chance daily." Robynson (More's Utopia). If a bird's nest chance to be before thee. Deut. xxii. 6. I chanced on this letter. Shak. Note: Often used impersonally; as, how chances it How chance, thou art returned so soon Shak. CHANCE Chance, v. t. 1. To take the chances of; to venture upon; -- usually with it as object. Come what will, I will chance it. W. D. Howells. 2. To befall; to happen to. [Obs.] W. Lambarde. CHANCE Chance, a. Defn: Happening by chance; casual. CHANCE Chance, adv. Defn: By chance; perchance. Gray. CHANCEABLE Chance"a*ble, a. Defn: Fortuitous; casual. [Obs.] CHANCEABLY Chance"a*bly, adv. Defn: By chance. [Obs.] CHANCEFUL Chance"ful, a. Defn: Hazardous. [Obs.] Spenser. CHANCEL Chan"cel, n. Etym: [OF. chancel, F. chanceau, cancel, fr. L. cancelli lattices, crossbars. (The chancel was formerly inclosed with lattices or crossbars) See Cancel, v. t.] (Arch.) (a) That part of a church, reserved for the use of the clergy, where the altar, or communion table, is placed. Hence, in modern use; (b) All that part of a cruciform church which is beyond the line of the transept farthest from the main front. Chancel aisle (Arch.), the aisle which passes on either side of or around the chancel. -- Chancel arch (Arch.), the arch which spans the main opening, leading to the chancel -- Chancel casement, the principal window in a chancel. Tennyson. -- Chancel table, the communion table. CHANCELLERY Chan"cel*ler*y, n. Etym: [Cf. Chancery.] Defn: Chancellorship. [Obs.] Gower. CHANCELLOR Chan"cel*lor, n. Etym: [OE. canceler, chaunceler, F. chancelier, LL. cancellarius chancellor, a director of chancery, fr. L. cancelli lattices, crossbars, which surrounded the seat of judgment. See Chancel.] Defn: A judicial court of chancery, which in England and in the United States is distinctively a court with equity jurisdiction. Note: The chancellor was originally a chief scribe or secretary under the Roman emperors, but afterward was invested with judicial powers, and had superintendence over the other officers of the empire. From the Roman empire this office passed to the church, and every bishop has his chancellor, the principal judge of his consistory. In later times, in most countries of Europe, the chancellor was a high officer of state, keeper of the great seal of the kingdom, and having the supervision of all charters, and like public instruments of the crown, which were authenticated in the most solemn manner. In France a secretary is in some cases called a chancellor. In Scotland, the appellation is given to the foreman of a jury, or assize. In the present German empire, the chancellor is the president of the federal council and the head of the imperial administration. In the United States, the title is given to certain judges of courts of chancery or equity, established by the statutes of separate States. Blackstone. Wharton. Chancellor of a bishop, or of a diocese (R. C. Ch. & ch. of Eng.), a law officer appointed to hold the bishop's court in his diocese, and to assist him in matter of ecclesiastical law. -- Chancellor of a cathedral, one of the four chief dignitaries of the cathedrals of the old foundation, and an officer whose duties are chiefly educational, with special reference to the cultivation of theology. -- Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster, an officer before whom, or his deputy, the court of the duchy chamber of Lancaster is