[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

subgenera Querquedula and Nettion. The male is handsomely colored, and has a bright green or blue speculum on the wings. Note: The common European teal (Anas crecca) and the European blue- winged teal, or garganey (A. querquedula or A. circia), are well- known species. In America the blue-winged teal (A. discors), the green-winged teal (A. Carolinensis), and the cinnamon teal (A. cynaoptera) are common species, valued as game birds. See Garganey. Goose teal, a goslet. See Goslet. -- Teal duck, the common European teal. TEAM Team, n. Etym: [OE. tem, team, AS. teám, offspring, progeny, race of descendants, family; akin to D. toom a bridle, LG. toom progeny, team, bridle, G. zaum a bridle, zeugen to beget, Icel. taumr to rein, bridle, Dan. tömme, Sw. töm, and also to E. tow to drag, tug to draw. *64. See Tug, and cf. Teem to bear.] 1. A group of young animals, especially of young ducks; a brood; a litter. A team of ducklings about her. Holland. 2. Hence, a number of animals moving together. A long team of snowy swans on high. Dryden. 3. Two or more horses, oxen, or other beasts harnessed to the same vehicle for drawing, as to a coach, wagon, sled, or the like. "A team of dolphins." Spenser. To take his team and till the earth. Piers Plowman. It happened almost every day that coaches stuck fast, until a team of cattle could be procured from some neighboring farm to tug them out of the slough. Macaulay. 4. A number of persons associated together in any work; a gang; especially, a number of persons selected to contend on one side in a match, or a series of matches, in a cricket, football, rowing, etc. 5. (Zoöl.) Defn: A flock of wild ducks. 6. (O. Eng. Law) Defn: A royalty or privilege granted by royal charter to a lord of a manor, of having, keeping, and judging in his court, his bondmen, neifes, and villains, and their offspring, or suit, that is, goods and chattels, and appurtenances thereto. Burrill. TEAM Team, v. i. Defn: To engage in the occupation of driving a team of horses, cattle, or the like, as in conveying or hauling lumber, goods, etc.; to be a teamster. team up, to form one or more teams, either for a common endeavor, or to compete in a contest. TEAM Team, v. t. Defn: To convey or haul with a team; as, to team lumber. [R.] Thoreau. TEAMED Teamed, a. Defn: Yoked in, or as in, a team. [Obs.] Let their teamed fishes softly swim. Spenser. TEAMING Team"ing, n. 1. The act or occupation of driving a team, or of hauling or carrying, as logs, goods, or the like, with a team. 2. (Manuf.) Defn: Contract work. [R.] Knight. TEAMSTER Team"ster, n. Defn: One who drives a team. TEAMWORK Team"work`, n. Defn: Work done by a team, as distinguished from that done by personal labor. TEAPOT Tea"pot`, n. Defn: A vessel with a spout, in which tea is made, and from which it is poured into teacups. TEAPOY Tea"poy, n. Etym: [Hind. tipai; Hind. tin there + Per. pae foot.] Defn: An ornamental stand, usually with three legs, having caddies for holding tea. TEAR Tear, n. Etym: [AS. teár; akin to G. zärhe, OHG. zahar, OFries. & Icel. tar, Sw. tår, Dan. taare, Goth. tagr, OIr. der, W. dagr, OW. dacr, L. lacrima, lacruma, for older dacruma, Gr. Lachrymose.] 1. (Physiol.) Defn: A drop of the limpid, saline fluid secreted, normally in small amount, by the lachrymal gland, and diffused between the eye and the eyelids to moisten the parts and facilitate their motion. Ordinarily the secretion passes through the lachrymal duct into the nose, but when it is increased by emotion or other causes, it overflows the lids. And yet for thee ne wept she never a tear. Chaucer. 2. Something in the form of a transparent drop of fluid matter; also, a solid, transparent, tear-shaped drop, as of some balsams or resins. Let Araby extol her happy coast, Her fragrant flowers, her trees with precious tears. Dryden. 3. That which causes or accompanies tears; a lament; a dirge. [R.] "Some melodous tear." Milton. Note: Tear is sometimes used in the formation of self-explaining compounds; as, tear-distilling, tear-drop, tear-filled, tear-stained, and the like. TEAR Tear, v. t. [imp. Tore, ((Obs. Tare) (; p. p. Torn; p. pr. & vb. n. Tearing.] Etym: [OE. teren, AS. teran; akin to OS. farterian to destroy, D. teren to consume, G. zerren to pull, to tear, zehren to consume, Icel. tæra, Goth. gataíran to destroy, Lith. dirti to flay, Russ. drate to pull, to tear, Gr. dar to burst. *63. Cf. Darn, Epidermis, Tarre, Tirade.] 1. To separate by violence; to pull apart by force; to rend; to lacerate; as, to tear cloth; to tear a garment; to tear the skin or flesh. Tear him to pieces; he's a conspirator. Shak. 2. Hence, to divide by violent measures; to disrupt; to rend; as, a party or government torn by factions. 3. To rend away; to force away; to remove by force; to sunder; as, a child torn from its home. The hand of fate Hath torn thee from me. Addison. 4. To pull with violence; as, to tear the hair. 5. To move violently; to agitate. "Once I loved torn ocean's roar." Byron. To tear a cat, to rant violently; to rave; -- especially applied to theatrical ranting. [Obs.] Shak. -- To tear down, to demolish violently; to pull or pluck down. -- To tear off, to pull off by violence; to strip. -- To tear out, to pull or draw out by violence; as, to tear out the eyes. -- To tear up, to rip up; to remove from a fixed state by violence; as, to tear up a floor; to tear up the foundation of government or order. TEAR Tear, v. i. 1. To divide or separate on being pulled; to be rent; as, this cloth tears easily. 2. To move and act with turbulent violence; to rush with violence; hence, to rage; to rave. TEAR Tear, n. Defn: The act of tearing, or the state of being torn; a rent; a fissure. Macaulay. Wear and tear. See under Wear, n. TEARER Tear"er, n. Defn: One who tears or rends anything; also, one who rages or raves with violence. TEAR-FALLING Tear"-fall`ing, a. Defn: Shedding tears; tender. [Poetic] "Tear-falling pity." Shak. TEARFUL Tear"ful, a. Defn: Abounding with tears; weeping; shedding tears; as, tearful eyes. -- Tear"ful*ly, adv. -- Tear"ful*ness, n. TEARLESS Tear"less, a. Defn: Shedding no tears; free from tears; unfeeling. -- Tear"less*ly, adv. -- Tear"less*ness, n. TEARPIT Tear"pit`, n. (Anat.) Defn: A cavity or pouch beneath the lower eyelid of most deer and antelope; the lachrymal sinus; larmier. It is capable of being opened at pleasure and secretes a waxy substance. TEAR-THUMB Tear"-thumb`, n. (Bot.) Defn: A name given to several species of plants of the genus Polygonum, having angular stems beset with minute reflexed prickles. TEARY Tear"y, a. 1. Wet with tears; tearful. 2. Consisting of tears, or drops like tears. TEA-SAUCER Tea"-sau`cer, n. Defn: A small saucer in which a teacup is set. TEASE Tease, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Teased; p. pr. & vb. n. Teasing.] Etym: [AS. t to pluck, tease; akin to OD. teesen, MHG. zeisen, Dan. tæse, tæsse. *58. Cf. Touse.] 1. To comb or card, as wool or flax. "Teasing matted wool." Wordsworth. 2. To stratch, as cloth, for the purpose of raising a nap; teasel. 3. (Anat.) Defn: To tear or separate into minute shreds, as with needles or similar instruments. 4. To vex with importunity or impertinence; to harass, annoy, disturb, or irritate by petty requests, or by jests and raillery; to plague. Cowper. He . . . suffered them to tease him into acts directly opposed to his strongest inclinations. Macaulay. Syn. -- To vex; harass: annoy; disturb; irritate; plague; torment; mortify; tantalize; chagrin. -- Tease, Vex. To tease is literally to pull or scratch, and implies a prolonged annoyance in respect to little things, which is often more irritating, and harder to bear, than severe pain. Vex meant originally to seize and bear away hither and thither, and hence, to disturb; as, to vex the ocean with storms. This sense of the term now rarely occurs; but vex is still a stronger word than tease, denoting the disturbance or anger created by minor provocations, losses, disappointments, etc. We are teased by the buzzing of a fly in our eyes; we are vexed by the carelessness or stupidity of our servants. Not by the force of carnal reason, But indefatigable teasing. Hudibras. In disappointments, where the affections have been strongly placed, and the expectations sanguine, particularly where the agency of others is concerned, sorrow may degenerate into vexation and chagrin. Cogan. Tease tenon (Joinery), a long tenon at the top of a post to receive two beams crossing each other one above the other. TEASE Tease,