[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

resemblance to a broad arrowhead. ARROW GRASS Ar"row grass`, n. (Bot.) Defn: An herbaceous grasslike plant (Triglochin palustre, and other species) with pods opening so as to suggest barbed arrowheads. ARROWHEAD Ar"row*head`, n. 1. The head of an arrow. 2. (Bot.) Defn: An aquatic plant of the genus Sagittaria, esp. S. sagittifolia, -- named from the shape of the leaves. ARROWHEADED Ar"row*head`ed, a. Defn: Shaped like the head of an arow; cuneiform. Arrowheaded characters, characters the elements of which consist of strokes resembling arrowheads, nailheads, or wedges; -- hence called also nail-headed, wedge-formed, cuneiform, or cuneatic characters; the oldest written characters used in the country about the Tigris and Euphrates, and subsequently in Persia, and abounding among the ruins of Persepolis, Nineveh, and Babylon. See Cuneiform. ARROWROOT Ar"row*root`, n. 1. (Bot.) Defn: A west Indian plant of the genus Maranta, esp. M. arundinacea, now cultivated in many hot countries. It said that the Indians used the roots to neutralize the venom in wounds made by poisoned arrows. 2. A nutritive starch obtained from the rootstocks of Maranta arundinacea, and used as food, esp. for children an invalids; also, a similar starch obtained from other plants, as various species of Maranta and Curcuma. ARROWWOOD Ar"row*wood`, n. Defn: A shrub (Viburnum dentatum) growing in damp woods and thickets; -- so called from the long, straight, slender shoots. ARROWWORM Ar"row*worm`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: A peculiar transparent worm of the genus Sagitta, living at the surface of the sea. See Sagitta. ARROWY Ar"row*y, a. 1. Consisting of arrows. How quick they wheeled, and flying, behind them shot Sharp sleet of arrowy showers. Milton. 2. Formed or moving like, or in any respect resembling, an arrow; swift; darting; piercing. "His arrowy tongue." Cowper. By the blue rushing of the arrowy Rhone. Byron. With arrowy vitalities, vivacities, and ingenuities. Carlyle. ARROYO Ar*roy"o, n.; pl Arroyos. Etym: [Sp., fr. LL. arrogium; cf. Gr. 1. A water course; a rivulet. 2. The dry bed of a small stream. [Western U. S.] ARSCHIN Ar"schin, n. Defn: See Arshine. ARSE Arse, n. Etym: [AS. ears; ærs; akin to OHG. ars. G. arsch, D. aars, Sw. ars, Dan. arts, Gr. Defn: The buttocks, or hind part of an animal; the posteriors; the fundament; the bottom. ARSENAL Ar"se*nal, n. Etym: [Sp. & F. arsenal arsenal, dockyard, or It. arzanale, arsenale (cf. It. & darsena dock); all fr. Ar. dar house of industry or fabrication; dar house + art, industry.] Defn: A public establishment for the storage, or for the manufacture and storage, of arms and all military equipments, whether for land or naval service. ARSENATE Ar"se*nate, n. (Chem.) Defn: A salt of arsenic acid. ARSENIATE Ar*se"ni*ate, n. Defn: See Arsenate. [R.] ARSENIC Ar"se*nic, n. Etym: [L. arsenicum, Gr. zernikh: cf. F. arsenic.] 1. (Chem.) Defn: One of the elements, a solid substance resembling a metal in its physical properties, but in its chemical relations ranking with the nonmetals. It is of a steel-gray color and brilliant luster, though usually dull from tarnish. It is very brittle, and sublimes at 356º Fahrenheit. It is sometimes found native, but usually combined with silver, cobalt, nickel, iron, antimony, or sulphur. Orpiment and realgar are two of its sulphur compounds, the first of which is the true arsenticum of the ancients. The element and its compounds are active poisons. Specific gravity from 5.7 to 5.9. Atomic weight. Symbol As. 2. (Com.) Defn: Arsenious oxide or arsenious anhydride; -- called also arsenious acid, white arsenic, and ratsbane. ARSENIC Ar*sen"ic, a. (Chem.) Defn: Pertaining to, or derived from, arsenic; -- said of those compounds of arsenic in which this element has its highest equivalence; as, arsenic acid. ARSENICAL Ar*sen"ic*al, a. Defn: Of or pertaining to, or containing, arsenic; as, arsenical vapor; arsenical wall papers. Arsenical silver, an ore of silver containing arsenic. ARSENICATE Ar*sen"i*cate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Arsenicated; p. pr. & vb. n. Arsenicating.] Defn: To combine with arsenic; to treat or impregnate with arsenic. ARSENICISM Ar*sen"i*cism, n. (Med.) Defn: A diseased condition produced by slow poisoning with arsenic. ARSENIDE Ar"sen*ide, n. (Chem.) Defn: A compound of arsenic with a metal, or positive element or radical; -- formerly called arseniuret. ARSENIFEROUS Ar`sen*if"er*ous, a. Etym: [Arsenic + -ferous.] Defn: Containing or producing arsenic. ARSENIOUS Ar*se"ni*ous, a. Etym: [Cf. F. arsénieux.] 1. Pertaining to, consisting of, or containing, arsenic; as, arsenious powder or glass. 2. (Chem.) Defn: Pertaining to, or derived from, arsenic, when having an equivalence next lower than the highest; as, arsenious acid. ARSENITE Ar"sen*ite, n. Etym: [Cf. F. arsénite.] (Chem.) Defn: A salt formed by the union of arsenious acid with a base. ARSENIURET Ar`se*ni"u*ret, n. (Chem.) Defn: See Arsenide. ARSENIURETED Ar`se*ni"u*ret`ed, a. (Chem.) Defn: Combined with arsenic; -- said some elementary substances or radicals; as, arseniureted hydrogen. [Also spelt arseniuretted.] ARSENOPYRITE Ar`sen*o*pyr"ite, n. Etym: [Arsenic + pyrite.] (Min.) Defn: A mineral of a tin-white color and metallic luster, containing arsenic, sulphur, and iron; -- also called arsenical pyrites and mispickel. ARSESMART Arse"smart, n. Defn: Smartweed; water pepper. Dr. Prior. ARSHINE Ar"shine, n. Etym: [Russ. arshin, of Turkish-Tartar origin; Turk. arshin, arshun, ell, yard.] Defn: A Russian measure of length = 2 ft. 4.246 inches. ARSINE Ar"sine, n. Etym: [From Arsenic.] (Chem.) Defn: A compound of arsenic and hydrogen, AsH3, a colorless and exceedingly poisonous gas, having and odor like garlic; arseniureted hydrogen. ARSIS Ar"sis, n. Etym: [L. arsis, Gr. lifting of the hand in beating time, and hence the unaccented part of the rhythm.] 1. (Pros.) (a) That part of a foot where the ictus is put, or which is distinguished from the rest (known as the thesis) of the foot by a greater stress of voice. Hermann. (b) That elevation of voice now called metrical accentuation, or the rhythmic accent. Note: It is uncertain whether the arsis originally consisted in a higher musical tone, greater volume, or longer duration of sound, or in all combined. 2. (Mus.) Defn: The elevation of the hand, or that part of the bar at which it is raised, in beating time; the weak or unaccented part of the bar; - - opposed to thesis. Moore. ARSMETRIKE Ars`met"rike, n. Etym: [An erroneous form of arithmetic, as if from L. ars metrica the measuring art.] Defn: Arithmetic. [Obs.] Chaucer. ARSON Ar"son, n. Etym: [OF. arson, arsun, fr. L. ardere, arsum, to burn.] (Law) Defn: The malicious burning of a dwelling house or outhouse of another man, which by the common law is felony; the malicious and voluntary firing of a building or ship. Wharton. Note: The definition of this crime is varied by statues in different countries and states. The English law of arson has been considerably modified in the United States; in some of the States it has been materially enlarged, while in others, various degrees of arson have been established, with corresponding punishment. Burrill. ART Art. Defn: The second person singular, indicative mode, present tense, of the substantive verb Be; but formed after the analogy of the plural are, with the ending -t, as in thou shalt, wilt, orig. an ending of the second person sing. pret. Cf. Be. Now used only in solemn or poetical style. ART Art, n. Etym: [F. art, L. ars, artis, orig., skill in joining or fitting; prob. akin to E. arm, aristocrat, article.] 1. The employment of means to accomplish some desired end; the adaptation of things in the natural world to the uses of life; the application of knowledge or power to practical purposes. Blest with each grace of nature and of art. Pope. 2. A system of rules serving to facilitate the performance of certain actions; a system of principles and rules for attaining a desired end; method of doing well some special work; -- often contradistinguished from science or speculative principles; as, the art of building or engraving; the art of war; the art of navigation. Science is systematized knowledge . . . Art is knowledge made efficient by skill. J. F. Genung. 3. The systematic application of knowledge or skill in effecting a desired result. Also, an occupation or business requiring such knowledge or skill. The fishermen can't employ their art with so much success in so troubled a sea. Addison. 4. The application of skill to the production of the beautiful by imitation or design, or an occupation in which skill is so employed, as in painting and sculpture; one of the fine arts; as, he prefers art to literature. 5. pl. Defn: Those branches of learning which are taught in the academical course of colleges; as, master of arts. In fearless youth we tempt the heights of arts. Pope. Four years spent in the arts (as they are called in colleges) is, perhaps, laying too laborious a foundation. Goldsmith. 6. Learning; study; applied knowledge, science, or letters. [Archaic] So vast is art, so narrow human wit. Pope. 7. Skill, dexterity, or the power of performing certain actions, asquired by experience, study, or observation; knack; a, a man has the art of managing his business