[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

of rest; to swing; to oscillate. 2. To have the constituent particles move to and fro, with alternate compression and dilation of parts, as the air, or any elastic body; to quiver. 3. To produce an oscillating or quivering effect of sound; as, a whisper vibrates on the ear. Pope. 4. To pass from one state to another; to waver; to fluctuate; as, a man vibrates between two opinions. VIBRATILE Vi"bra*tile, a. Etym: [Cf. F. vibratile.] Defn: Adapted to, or used in, vibratory motion; having the power of vibrating; vibratory; as, the vibratile organs of insects. VIBRATILITY Vi`bra*til"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. vibratilité.] Defn: The quality or state of being vibratile; disposition to vibration or oscillation. Rush. VIBRATION Vi*bra"tion, n. Etym: [L. vibratio: cf. F. vibration.] 1. The act of vibrating, or the state of being vibrated, or in vibratory motion; quick motion to and fro; oscillation, as of a pendulum or musical string. As a harper lays his open palm Upon his harp, to deaden its vibrations. Longfellow. 2. (Physics) Defn: A limited reciprocating motion of a particle of an elastic body or medium in alternately opposite directions from its position of equilibrium, when that equilibrium has been disturbed, as when a stretched cord or other body produces musical notes, or particles of air transmit sounds to the ear. The path of the particle may be in a straight line, in a circular arc, or in any curve whatever. Note: Vibration and oscillation are both used, in mechanics, of the swinging, or rising and falling, motion of a suspended or balanced body; the latter term more appropriately, as signifying such motion produced by gravity, and of any degree of slowness, while the former applies especially to the quick, short motion to and fro which results from elasticity, or the action of molecular forces among the particles of a body when disturbed from their position of rest, as in a spring. Amplitude of vibration, the maximum displacement of a vibrating particle or body from its position of rest. -- Phase of vibration, any part of the path described by a particle or body in making a complete vibration, in distinction from other parts, as while moving from one extreme to the other, or on one side of the line of rest, in distinction from the opposite. Two particles are said to be in the same phase when they are moving in the same direction and with the same velocity, or in corresponding parts of their paths. VIBRATIUNCLE Vi*bra"ti*un`cle, a. Etym: [Dim. of vibration.] Defn: A small vibration. [R.] Chambers. VIBRATIVE Vi"bra*tive, a. Vibrating Defn: ; vibratory. "A vibrative motion." Sir I. Newton. VIBRATOR Vi"bra*tor, n. One that vibrates, or causes vibration or oscillation of any kind; specif. (a) (Elec.) (1) Defn: A trembler, as of an electric bell. (2) Defn: A vibrating reed for transmitting or receiving pulsating currents in a harmonic telegraph system. (3) Defn: A device for vibrating the pen of a siphon recorder to diminish frictional resistance on the paper. (4) An oscillator. (b) An ink-distributing roller in a printing machine, having an additional vibratory motion. (a) (Music) A vibrating reed, esp. in a reed organ. (d) (Weaving) Any of various vibrating devices, as one for slackening the warp as a shed opens. (e) An attachment, usually pneumatic, in a molding machine to shake the pattern loose. VIBRATORY Vi"bra*to*ry, a. Etym: [Cf. F. vibratoire.] Defn: Consisting in, or causing, vibration, or oscillation; vibrating; as, a vibratory motion; a vibratory power. VIBRIO Vib"ri*o, n.; pl. E. Vibrios, L. Vibriones. Etym: [NL., fr. L. vibrare to vibrate, to move by undulations.] (Biol.) Defn: A genus of motile bacteria characterized by short, slightly sinuous filaments and an undulatory motion; also, an individual of this genus. VIBRISSA Vi*bris"sa, n.; pl. Vibrissæ. Etym: [L. vibrissae, pl., the hairs in the nostrils of man, fr. vibrare to vibrate; -- so called because touching them tickles a person, and causes him to shake his head.] 1. (Anat.) Defn: One of the specialized or tactile hairs which grow about the nostrils, or on other parts of the face, in many animals, as the so- called whiskers of the cat, and the hairs of the nostrils of man. 2. (Zoöl.) Defn: The bristlelike feathers near the mouth of many birds. VIBROGRAPH Vi"bro*graph, n. [Vibrate + -graph.] Defn: An instrument to observe and record vibrations. VIBROSCOPE Vi"bro*scope, n. 1. An instrument for observing or tracing vibrations. 2. An instrument resembling the phenakistoscope. VIBURNUM Vi*bur"num, n. Etym: [L., the wayfaring tree.] (Bot.) Defn: A genus of shrubs having opposite, petiolate leaves and cymose flowers, several species of which are cultivated as ornamental, as the laurestine and the guelder-rose. VICAR Vic"ar, n. Etym: [OE. vicar, viker, vicair, F. vicaire, fr. L. vicarius. See Vicarious.] 1. One deputed or authorized to perform the functions of another; a substitute in office; a deputy. [R.] 2. (Eng. Eccl. Law) Defn: The incumbent of an appropriated benefice. Note: The distinction between a parson [or rector] and vicar is this: The parson has, for the most part, the whole right to the ecclesiastical dues in his parish; but a vicar has generally an appropriator over him, entitled to the best part of the profits, to whom he is in fact perpetual curate with a standing salary. Burrill. Apostolic vicar, or Vicar apostolic. (R. C. Ch.) (a) A bishop to whom the Roman pontiff delegates a portion of his jurisdiction. (b) Any ecclesiastic acting under a papal brief, commissioned to exercise episcopal authority. (c) A titular bishop in a country where there is no episcopal see, or where the succession has been interrupted. -- Vicar forane. Etym: [Cf. LL. foraneus situated outside of the episcopal city, rural. See Vicar, and Foreign.] (R. C. Ch.) A dignitary or parish priest appointed by a bishop to exercise a limited jurisdiction in a particular town or district of a diocese. Addis & Arnold. -- Vicar-general. (a) (Ch. of Eng.) The deputy of the Archbishop of Canterbury or York, in whose court the bishops of the province are confirmed. Encyc. Brit. (b) (R. C. Ch.) An assistant to a bishop in the discharge of his official functions. -- Vicar of Jesus Christ (R. C. Ch.), the pope as representing Christ on earth. VICARAGE Vic"ar*age (; 48), n. 1. The benefice of a vicar. 2. The house or residence of a vicar. VICARIAL Vi*ca"ri*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. vicarial.] 1. Of or pertaining to a vicar; as, vicarial tithes. 2. Delegated; vicarious; as, vicarial power. VICARIAN Vi*ca"ri*an, n. Defn: A vicar. [Obs.] Marston. VICARIATE Vi*ca"ri*ate, a. Defn: Having delegated power, as a vicar; vicarious. Barrow. VICARIATE Vi*ca"ri*ate, n. Etym: [LL. vicariatus, or F. vicariat.] Defn: Delegated office or power; vicarship; the office or oversight of a vicar. The vicariate of that part of Germany which is governed by the Saxon laws devolved on the elector of Saxony. Robertson. VICARIOUS Vi*ca"ri*ous, a. Etym: [L. vicarius, from vicis change, alternation, turn, the position, place, or office of one person as assumed by another; akin to Gr. wechsel a change, and probably also to E. weak. See Weak, and cf. Vice, prep.] 1. Of or pertaining to a vicar, substitute, or deputy; deputed; delegated; as, vicarious power or authority. 2. Acting of suffering for another; as, a vicarious agent or officer. The soul in the body is but a subordinate efficient, and vicarious . . . in the hands of the Almighty. Sir M. Hale. 3. Performed of suffered in the place of another; substituted; as, a vicarious sacrifice; vicarious punishment. The vicarious work of the Great Deliverer. I. Taylor. 4. (Med.) Defn: Acting as a substitute; -- said of abnormal action which replaces a suppressed normal function; as, vicarious hemorrhage replacing menstruation. VICARIOUSLY Vi*ca"ri*ous*ly, adv. Defn: In a vicarious manner. VICARSHIP Vic"ar*ship, n. Defn: The office or dignity of a vicar. VICARY Vic"ar*y, n. Etym: [L. vicarius.] Defn: A vicar. [Obs.] VICE Vice, n. Etym: [F., from L. vitium.] 1. A defect; a fault; an error; a blemish; an imperfection; as, the vices of a political constitution; the vices of a horse. Withouten vice of syllable or letter. Chaucer. Mark the vice of the procedure. Sir W. Hamilton. 2. A moral fault or failing; especially, immoral conduct or habit, as in the indulgence of degrading appetites; customary deviation in a single respect, or in general, from a right standard, implying a defect of natural character, or the result of training and habits; a harmful custom; immorality; depravity; wickedness; as, a life of vice; the vice of intemperance. I do confess the vices of my blood. Shak. Ungoverned appetite . . . a brutish vice. Milton. When vice prevails, and impious men bear sway, The post of honor is a private station. Addison. 3. The buffoon of the old English moralities, or moral dramas, having the name sometimes of one vice, sometimes of another, or of Vice itself; -- called also Iniquity. Note: This character was grotesquely dressed in a cap with ass's