[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

indicate the state of the atmosphere, especially changes of atmospheric pressure, and hence changes of weather, as a barometer or baroscope. Poor man's weatherglass. (Bot.) See under Poor. WEATHERING Weath"er*ing, n. (Geol.) Defn: The action of the elements on a rock in altering its color, texture, or composition, or in rounding off its edges. WEATHERLINESS Weath"er*li*ness, n. (Naut.) Defn: The quality of being weatherly. WEATHERLY Weath"er*ly, a. (Naut.) Defn: Working, or able to sail, close to the wind; as, a weatherly ship. Cooper. WEATHER MAP Weath"er map. Defn: A map or chart showing the principal meteorological elements at a given hour and over an extended region. Such maps usually show the height of the barometer, the temperature of the air, the relative humidity, the state of the weather, and the direction and velocity of the wind. Isobars and isotherms outline the general distribution of temperature and pressure, while shaded areas indicate the sections over which rain has just fallen. Other lines inclose areas where the temperature has fallen or risen markedly. In tabular form are shown changes of pressure and of temperature, maximum and minimum temperatures, and total rain for each weather station since the last issue, usually 12 hours. WEATHERMOST Weath"er*most`, a. (Naut.) Defn: Being farthest to the windward. WEATHERPROOF Weath"er*proof`, a. Defn: Proof against rough weather. WEATHER SIGNAL Weather signal. Defn: Any signal giving information about the weather. The system used by the United States Weather Bureau includes temperature, cold or hot wave, rain or snow, wind direction, storm, and hurricane signals. WEATHER STATION Weather station. (Meteor.) Defn: A station for taking meteorological observations, making weather forecasts, or disseminating such information. Such stations are of the first order when they make observations of all the important elements either hourly or by self-registering instruments; of the second order when only important observations are taken; of the third order when simpler work is done, as to record rainfall and maximum and minimum temperatures. WEATHERWISE Weath"er*wise`, a. Defn: Skillful in forecasting the changes of the weather. Hakluyt. WEATHERWISER Weath"er*wis`er, n. Etym: [Cf. Waywiser.] Defn: Something that foreshows the weather. [Obs.] Derham. WEATHERWORN Weath"er*worn`, a. Defn: Worn by the action of, or by exposure to, the weather. WEAVE Weave, v. t. [imp. Wove; p. p. Woven, Wove; p. pr. & vb. n. Weaving. The regular imp. & p. p. Weaved (, is rarely used.] Etym: [OE. weven, AS. wefan; akin to D. weven, G. weben, OHG. weban, Icel. vefa, Sw. väfva, Dan. væve, Gr. spider, lit., wool weaver. Cf. Waper, Waffle, Web, Weevil, Weft, Woof.] 1. To unite, as threads of any kind, in such a manner as to form a texture; to entwine or interlace into a fabric; as, to weave wool, silk, etc.; hence, to unite by close connection or intermixture; to unite intimately. This weaves itself, perforce, into my business. Shak. That in their green shops weave the smooth-haired silk To deck her sons. Milton. And for these words, thus woven into song. Byron. 2. To form, as cloth, by interlacing threads; to compose, as a texture of any kind, by putting together textile materials; as, to weave broadcloth; to weave a carpet; hence, to form into a fabric; to compose; to fabricate; as, to weave the plot of a story. When she weaved the sleided silk. Shak. Her starry wreaths the virgin jasmin weaves. Ld. Lytton. WEAVE Weave, v. i. 1. To practice weaving; to work with a loom. 2. To become woven or interwoven. WEAVE Weave, n. Defn: A particular method or pattern of weaving; as, the cassimere weave. WEAVER Weav"er, n. 1. One who weaves, or whose occupation is to weave. "Weavers of linen." P. Plowman. 2. (Zoöl.) Defn: A weaver bird. 3. (Zoöl.) Defn: An aquatic beetle of the genus Gyrinus. See Whirling. Weaver bird (Zoöl.), any one of numerous species of Asiatic, Fast Indian, and African birds belonging to Ploceus and allied genera of the family Ploceidæ. Weaver birds resemble finches and sparrows in size, colors, and shape of the bill. They construct pensile nests composed of interlaced grass and other similar materials. In some of the species the nest is retort-shaped, with the opening at the bottom of the tube. -- Weavers' shuttle (Zoöl.), an East Indian marine univalve shell (Radius volva); -- so called from its shape. See Illust. of Shuttle shell, under Shuttle. WEAVERFISH Weav"er*fish`, n. Etym: [See Weever.] (Zoöl.) Defn: See Weever. WEAVING Weav"ing, n. 1. The act of one who, or that which, weaves; the act or art of forming cloth in a loom by the union or intertexture of threads. 2. (Far.) Defn: An incessant motion of a horse's head, neck, and body, from side to side, fancied to resemble the motion of a hand weaver in throwing the shuttle. Youatt. WEAZAND Wea"zand, n. Defn: See Weasand. [Obs.] WEAZEN Wea"zen, a. Etym: [See Wizen.] Defn: Thin; sharp; withered; wizened; as, a weazen face. They were weazen and shriveled. Dickens. WEAZENY Wea"zen*y, a. Defn: Somewhat weazen; shriveled. [Colloq.] "Weazeny, baked pears." Lowell. WEB Web, n. Etym: [OE. webbe, AS. webba. See Weave.] Defn: A weaver. [Obs.] Chaucer. WEB Web, n. Etym: [OE. web, AS. webb; akin to D. web, webbe, OHG. weppi, G. gewebe, Icel. vefr, Sw. väf, Dan. væv. See Weave.] 1. That which is woven; a texture; textile fabric; esp., something woven in a loom. Penelope, for her Ulysses' sake, Devised a web her wooers to deceive. Spenser. Not web might be woven, not a shuttle thrown, or penalty of exile. Bancroft. 2. A whole piece of linen cloth as woven. 3. The texture of very fine thread spun by a spider for catching insects at its prey; a cobweb. "The smallest spider's web." Shak. 4. Fig.: Tissue; texture; complicated fabrication. The somber spirit of our forefathers, who wove their web of life with hardly a . . . thread of rose-color or gold. Hawthorne. Such has been the perplexing ingenuity of commentators that it is difficult to extricate the truth from the web of conjectures. W. Irving. 5. (Carriages) Defn: A band of webbing used to regulate the extension of the hood. 6. A thin metal sheet, plate, or strip, as of lead. And Christians slain roll up in webs of lead. Fairfax. Specifically: - (a) The blade of a sword. [Obs.] The sword, whereof the web was steel, Pommel rich stone, hilt gold. Fairfax. (b) The blade of a saw. (c) The thin, sharp part of a colter. (d) The bit of a key. 7. (Mach. & Engin.) Defn: A plate or thin portion, continuous or perforated, connecting stiffening ribs or flanges, or other parts of an object. Specifically: -- (a) The thin vertical plate or portion connecting the upper and lower flanges of an lower flanges of an iron girder, rolled beam, or railroad rail. (b) A disk or solid construction serving, instead of spokes, for connecting the rim and hub, in some kinds of car wheels, sheaves, etc. (c) The arm of a crank between the shaft and the wrist. (d) The part of a blackmith's anvil between the face and the foot. 8. (Med.) Defn: Pterygium; -- called also webeye. Shak. 9. (Anat.) Defn: The membrane which unites the fingers or toes, either at their bases, as in man, or for a greater part of their length, as in many water birds and amphibians. 10. (Zoöl.) Defn: The series of barbs implanted on each side of the shaft of a feather, whether stiff and united together by barbules, as in ordinary feathers, or soft and separate, as in downy feathers. See Feather. Pin and web (Med.), two diseases of the eye, caligo and pterygium; -- sometimes wrongly explained as one disease. See Pin, n., 8, and Web, n., 8. "He never yet had pinne or webbe, his sight for to decay." Gascoigne. -- Web member (Engin.), one of the braces in a web system. -- Web press, a printing press which takes paper from a roll instead of being fed with sheets. -- Web system (Engin.), the system of braces connecting the flanges of a lattice girder, post, or the like. WEB Web, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Webbed; p. pr. & vb. n. Webbing.] Defn: To unite or surround with a web, or as if with a web; to envelop; to entangle. WEBBED Webbed, a. 1. Provided with a web. 2. (Zoöl.) Defn: Having the toes united by a membrane, or web; as, the webbed feet of aquatic fowls. WEBBER Web"ber, n. Defn: One who forms webs; a weaver; a webster. [Obs.] WEBBING Web"bing, n. Defn: A woven band of cotton or flax, used for reins, girths, bed bottoms, etc. WEBBY Web"by, a. Defn: Of or pertaining to a web or webs; like a web; filled or covered with webs. Bats on their webby wings in darkness move. Crabbe. WEBER We"ber, n. Etym: [From the name of Professor Weber, a German electrician.] (Elec.) Defn: The standard unit of electrical quantity, and also of current. See Coulomb, and Amp. [Obs.] WEBEYE