[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

3. A handful of gleaned grain. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] 4. (Law Tennis) Defn: A game with but one player on each side; -- usually in the plural. 5. (Baseball) Defn: A hit by a batter which enables him to reach first base only. SINGLE-ACTING Sin"gle-act`ing, a. Defn: Having simplicity of action; especially (Mach.), acting or exerting force during strokes in one direction only; -- said of a reciprocating engine, pump, etc. SINGLE-BREASTED Sin"gle-breast`ed, a. Defn: Lapping over the breast only far enough to permit of buttoning, and having buttons on one edge only; as, a single-breasted coast. SINGLE-FOOT Sin"gle-foot`, n. Defn: An irregular gait of a horse; -- called also single-footed pace. See Single, v. i. Single-foot is an irregular pace, rather rare, distinguished by the posterior extremities moving in the order of a fast walk, and the anterior extremities in that of a slow trot. Stillman (The Horse in Motion.) SINGLE-HANDED Sin"gle-hand"ed, a. Defn: Having but one hand, or one workman; also, alone; unassisted. SINGLE-HEARTED Sin"gle-heart"ed, a. Defn: Having an honest heart; free from duplicity. -- Sin"gle-heart"ed*ly, adv. SINGLE-MINDED Sin"gle-mind"ed, a. Defn: Having a single purpose; hence, artless; guileless; single- hearted. SINGLENESS Sin"gle*ness, n. 1. The quality or state of being single, or separate from all others; the opposite of doubleness, complication, or multiplicity. 2. Freedom from duplicity, or secondary and selfish ends; purity of mind or purpose; simplicity; sincerity; as, singleness of purpose; singleness of heart. SINGLES Sin"gles, n. pl. Defn: See Single, n., 2. SINGLESTICK Sin"gle*stick`, n. (a) In England and Scotland, a cudgel used in fencing or fighting; a backsword. (b) The game played with singlesticks, in which he who first brings blood from his adversary's head is pronounced victor; backsword; cudgeling. SINGLE-SURFACED Sin"gle-sur"faced, a. Defn: Having one surface; -- said specif. of aëroplanes or aërocurves that are covered with fabric, etc., on only one side. SINGLET Sin"glet, n. Defn: An unlined or undyed waistcoat; a single garment; -- opposed to doublet. [Prov. Eng.] SINGLE TAX Sin"gle tax`. (Pol. Econ.) Defn: A tax levied upon land alone, irrespective of improvements, -- advocated by certain economists as the sole source of public revenue. Whatever may be thought of Henry George's single-tax theory as a whole, there can be little question that a relatively higher assessment of ground rent, with corresponding relief for those who have made improvements, is a much-needed reform. A. T. Hadley. SINGLETON Sin"gle*ton, n. Defn: In certain games at cards, as whist, a single card of any suit held at the deal by a player; as, to lead a singleton. SINGLETREE Sin"gle*tree`, n. Etym: [Cf. Swingletree.] Defn: The pivoted or swinging bar to which the traces of a harnessed horse are fixed; a whiffletree. Note: When two horses draw abreast, a singletree is fixed at each end of another crosspiece, called the doubletree. SINGLY Sin"gly, adv. 1. Individually; particularly; severally; as, to make men singly and personally good. 2. Only; by one's self; alone. Look thee, 't is so! Thou singly honest man. Shak. 3. Without partners, companions, or associates; single-handed; as, to attack another singly. At omber singly to decide their doom. Pope. 4. Honestly; sincerely; simply. [R.] Johnson. 5. Singularly; peculiarly. [Obs.] Milton. SING-SING Sing"-sing`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: The kob. SINGSONG Sing"song`, n. 1. Bad singing or poetry. 2. A drawling or monotonous tone, as of a badly executed song. SINGSONG Sing"song`, a. Defn: Drawling; monotonous. SINGSONG Sing"song`, v. i. Defn: To write poor poetry. [R.] Tennyson. SINGSPIEL Sing"spiel`, n. [G.; singen to sing + spiel to play.] (Music) Defn: A dramatic work, partly in dialogue and partly in song, of a kind popular in Germany in the latter part of the 18th century. It was often comic, had modern characters, and patterned its music on folk song with strictly subordinated accompaniment. SINGSTER Sing"ster, n. Defn: A songstress. [Obs.] Wyclif. SINGULAR Sin"gu*lar, a. Etym: [OE. singuler, F. singulier, fr. L. singularius, singularis, fr. singulus single. See Single, a.] 1. Separate or apart from others; single; distinct. [Obs.] Bacon. And God forbid that all a company Should rue a singular man's folly. Chaucer. 2. Engaged in by only one on a side; single. [Obs.] To try the matter thus together in a singular combat. Holinshed. 3. (Logic) Defn: Existing by itself; single; individual. The idea which represents one . . . determinate thing, is called a singular idea, whether simple, complex, or compound. I. Watts. 4. (Law) Defn: Each; individual; as, to convey several parcels of land, all and singular. 5. (Gram.) Defn: Denoting one person or thing; as, the singular number; -- opposed to dual and Ant: plural. 6. Standing by itself; out of the ordinary course; unusual; uncommon; strange; as, a singular phenomenon. So singular a sadness Must have a cause as strange as the effect. Denham. 7. Distinguished as existing in a very high degree; rarely equaled; eminent; extraordinary; exceptional; as, a man of singular gravity or attainments. 8. Departing from general usage or expectations; odd; whimsical; -- often implying disapproval or consure. His zeal None seconded, as out of season judged, Or singular and rash. Milton. To be singular in anything that is wise and worthy, is not a disparagement, but a praise. Tillotson. 9. Being alone; belonging to, or being, that of which there is but one; unique. These busts of the emperors and empresses are all very scarce, and some of them almost singular in their kind. Addison. Singular point in a curve (Math.), a point at which the curve possesses some peculiar properties not possessed by other points of the curve, as a cusp point, or a multiple point. -- Singular proposition (Logic), a proposition having as its subject a singular term, or a common term limited to an individual by means of a singular sign. Whately. -- Singular succession (Civil Law), division among individual successors, as distinguished from universal succession, by which an estate descended in intestacy to the heirs in mass. -- Singular term (Logic), a term which represents or stands for a single individual. Syn. -- Unexampled; unprecedented; eminent; extraordinary; remarkable; uncommon; rare; unusual; peculiar; strange; odd; eccentric; fantastic. SINGULAR Sin"gu*lar, n. 1. An individual instance; a particular. [Obs.] Dr. H. More. 2. (Gram) Defn: The singular number, or the number denoting one person or thing; a word in the singular number. SINGULARIST Sin"gu*lar*ist, n. Defn: One who affects singularity. [Obs.] A clownish singularist, or nonconformist to ordinary usage. Borrow. SINGULARITY Sin`gu*lar"i*ty, n.; pl. Singularities. Etym: [L. singularitas: cf. F. singularité.] 1. The quality or state of being singular; some character or quality of a thing by which it is distinguished from all, or from most, others; peculiarity. Pliny addeth this singularity to that soil, that the second year the very falling down of the seeds yieldeth corn. Sir. W. Raleigh. I took notice of this little figure for the singularity of the instrument. Addison. 2. Anything singular, rare, or curious. Your gallery Have we passed through, not without much content In many singularities. Shak. 3. Possession of a particular or exclusive privilege, prerogative, or distinction. No bishop of Rome ever took upon him this name of singularity [universal bishop]. Hooker. Catholicism . . . must be understood in opposition to the legal singularity of the Jewish nation. Bp. Pearson. 4. Celibacy. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor. SINGULARIZE Sin"gu*lar*ize, v. t. Defn: To make singular or single; to distinguish. [R.] SINGULARLY Sin"gu*lar*ly, adv. 1. In a singular manner; in a manner, or to a degree, not common to others; extraordinarily; as, to be singularly exact in one's statements; singularly considerate of others. "Singularly handsome." Milman. 2. Strangely; oddly; as, to behave singularly. 3. So as to express one, or the singular number. SINGULT Sin"gult, n.Etym: [L. singultus.] Defn: A sigh or sobbing; also, a hiccough. [Obs.] Spenser. W. Browne. SINGULTOUS Sin*gul"tous, a. (Med.) Defn: Relating to, or affected with, hiccough. Dunglison. SINGULTUS Sin*gul"tus, n. Etym: [L.] (Med.) Defn: Hiccough. SINIC Sin"ic, a. [See Sinologue.] (Ethnol.) Defn: Of or pertaining to the Chinese and allied races; Chinese. SINICAL Sin"i*cal, a. Etym: [From Sine.] (Trig.) Defn: Of or pertaining to a sine; employing, or founded upon, sines; as, a sinical quadrant. SINICISM Sin"i*cism, n. (Ethnol.) Defn: Anything peculiar to the Chinese; esp., a Chinese peculiarity in manners or customs. SINIGRIN Sin"i*grin, n. Etym: [From NL. Sinapis nigra.] (Chem.) Defn: A glucoside found in the seeds of black mustard (Brassica nigra, formerly Sinapis nigra) It resembles sinalbin, and consists of a potassium salt of myronic acid. SINISTER Sin"is*ter, a. Etym: [Accented on the middle syllable by the older poets, as Shakespeare, Milton, Dryden.] Etym: [L. sinister: cf. F. sinistre.] 1. On the left hand, or the side of the left hand; left; -- opposed to dexter, or right. "Here on his sinister cheek." Shak. My mother's blood Runs on the dexter cheek, and this sinister Bounds in my father's Shak. Note: In heraldy the sinister side of an escutcheon is the side which would be on the left of the bearer of the shield, and opposite the