[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #33642]

minutes more, he thought. He was down. He jerked his head out of the way of a foot. He caught a leg and twisted. Fingers tore at his throat. He caught someone with a savage and satisfying kick. Out in space, beyond the orbit of the moon, Fierut detected the Washington Monument on his warning device. It was coming too fast to deflect. He tried. A heartbeat later, it ripped into the steel of the space station. It crumbled and shattered and sprayed marble, and huge fragments erupted from the opposite side. The space station became visible. There was a great, ragged, tunneling hole from rim to rim. Escaping air spewed wreckage into space. Parts of demolished machinery whirled away. In a yet-sealed compartment, a power system exploded with a great, blinding, soundless flash. Chunks of steel debris, vast shrapnel, blossomed in all directions. The space station, its orbit altered, twisted away, a gutted, lifeless derelict. Walt's shielding collapsed. His mutant bridge opened; his mutant powers vanished. He screamed for help. He saw General Tibbets slam a pistol butt against Willy's suddenly unprotected skull. * * * * * Five minutes later, in the laboratory, amid incredible confusion, Julia stood over Walt and dabbed antiseptic on his cut, swollen lip. Throughout the room there were shouts and laughter and cries of victory. One of the technicians--one who had worked hardest over it--was joyfully smashing the second signal generator. In the center of the frenzy, Dr. Norvel sat slumped across the desk. She was sound asleep. Weary and proud, Julia straightened up from Walt. "I've--we've both--got to get some rest," she said. "There'll be the press, the TV, the radio.... I can't face them. I'm too tired.... I must look like something the cat dragged in...." Walt, heavy lidded and exhausted, looked up at her. He smiled leadenly. "Look fine, Julia." His voice was thick and indistinct because of the swelling of his tongue. She sure ran me around, he thought. But she can't now. She's not superior to me any more. I'll be able to hold my own. She's, she's so helpless, so pliant. That's the way I like her. Poor tired girl! We'll travel, he thought. I want to see all of the planet. All the sights, all the cities. I want to live in the bustle of its life, in the hurry of its crowds. I want to travel and learn all the different smells and experience all the different places, and I want to celebrate its richness and its newness; I want to devour it; I want to-- She'll be there; I want to feel her by my side: sweet Julia, so compliant, waiting my decisions and anticipating my wishes. I want to see her laugh. And I want ... I want.... I'll have to ask her about things like that. ... I'm no longer so innocent, but I'm not yet so wise. I have grown and matured marvelously, and I will further: I know what I want. And she'll be there to, to help me see and do and.... He felt a great warm glow of bursting and bubbling emotions. "I'm going to sleep twenty-four hours," Julia said. "Just as soon as I can get in bed." "Better leave before the fourth estate gets here," the general said. "I'll have the staff car drive you back to the hotel." "Don't tell anybody we're there." The general nodded. He took Julia's arm. "I'll walk you outside." He sent an orderly for the car. "When you're rested--" he let Walt and Julia go through the door in front of him--"when you're rested, we'll want to see both of you again. You said something, Julia, about making us all like you were: with all those unusual abilities?" "Later. Please, later. I'm just too tired to think." She held onto Walt's arm possessively. But do, she wondered, _do_ I remember enough details to enable a surgeon to install a bridge? * * * * * A welter of other thoughts and impressions seethed to the surface of her leaden brain: The international situation ... if nothing changes ... for the last few years, there is an equilibrium ... working for genuine peace.... War is farther off every year.... But to interfere? When people can still be convinced of so many, so many falsehoods? Patterns of hatred (like of superstition), are they (aren't they: who can say? would the bridge not join but divide, upset the equilibrium?) are the patterns of hatred too deep, and too dangerous, and too entrenched in our generation? She was tired; but out of the exhaustion, the weariness, the fatigue, she suddenly realized with startling clarity, like the chime of a great, flawless bell, ringing hope and promise: That it will come; the next development of man will come, lies waiting in the future (near or far) to be born, to be born: will come. When mankind is ready, it will come: will come. A wave of exultation filled her. Oh, be ready soon! she cried. Be ready soon! "I, I don't think I can, can be of any help on that, General," she said. "After you get some rest--" "No," she said. Did she remember enough to guide a surgeon? "No, I'm afraid I've forgotten too thoroughly." The general helped them into the car. She snuggled over against Walt. She didn't want to think at all. She dreaded the next few days. She wished they were over. She pulled Walt's head down and kissed his swollen lips. He tried to draw back in surprise. She held on. The car began to move. He resisted and then relaxed and then cooperated. She was deliriously in love with him. Drifting to sleep she thought: After next week, we'll be able to get away and go home. We'll settle down right away. We'll buy the Castle Place; he can fix it up and work around the yard in the evenings, and I'll put pink and white curtains in the kitchen. And there's Beck's Hardware Store. I'll have to see about making the down payment on it the first day we get back. There will be Saturday teas. Walt will look stunningly handsome in a double breasted suit in Church on Sunday.... ... movies twice a week ... dancing once a month.... I'll let him go moose hunting in Canada every single year if he wants to. She snuggled closer. He's so innocent, she thought. He'll have to be educated (not so much as the other mutants, because he's already learned a little): but not more than it is good a husband should be. My, she thought, feeling his arms around her. My, he has _strong_ muscles. But he won't be any trouble. He'll handle like a lamb. I can manage him. She smiled and was asleep. THE END