[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

by + the same root as that of E. lock. Cf. Block, v. t., Blockade, and see Lock.] 1. A piece of wood more or less bulky; a solid mass of wood, stone, etc., usually with one or more plane, or approximately plane, faces; as, a block on which a butcher chops his meat; a block by which to mount a horse; children's playing blocks, etc. Now all our neighbors' chimneys smoke, And Christmas blocks are burning. Wither. All her labor was but as a block Left in the quarry. Tennyson. 2. The solid piece of wood on which condemned persons lay their necks when they are beheaded. Noble heads which have been brought to the block. E. Everett. 3. The wooden mold on which hats, bonnets, etc., are shaped. Hence: The pattern on shape of a hat. He wears his faith but as the fashion of his hat; it ever changes with the next block. Shak. 4. A large or long building divided into separate houses or shops, or a number of houses or shops built in contact with each other so as to form one building; a row of houses or shops. 5. A square, or portion of a city inclosed by streets, whether occupied by buildings or not. The new city was laid out in rectangular blocks, each block containing thirty building lots. Such an average block, comprising 282 houses and covering nine acres of ground, exists in Oxford Street. Lond. Quart. Rev. 6. A grooved pulley or sheave incased in a frame or shell which is provided with a hook, eye, or strap, by which it may be attached to an object. It is used to change the direction of motion, as in raising a heavy object that can not be conveniently reached, and also, when two or more such sheaves are compounded, to change the rate of motion, or to exert increased force; -- used especially in the rigging of ships, and in tackles. 7. (Falconry) Defn: The perch on which a bird of prey is kept. 8. Any obstruction, or cause of obstruction; a stop; a hindrance; an obstacle; as, a block in the way. 9. A piece of box or other wood for engravers' work. 10. (Print.) Defn: A piece of hard wood (as mahogany or cherry) on which a stereotype or electrotype plate is mounted to make it type high. 11. A blockhead; a stupid fellow; a dolt. [Obs.] What a block art thou ! Shak. 12. A section of a railroad where the block system is used. See Block system, below. A block of shares (Stock Exchange), a large number of shares in a stock company, sold in a lump. Bartlett. -- Block printing. (a) A mode of printing (common in China and Japan) from engraved boards by means of a sheet of paper laid on the linked surface and rubbed with a brush. S. W. Williams. (b) A method of printing cotton cloth and paper hangings with colors, by pressing them upon an engraved surface coated with coloring matter. -- Block system on railways, a system by which the track is divided into sections of three or four miles, and trains are so run by the guidance of electric signals that no train enters a section or block before the preceding train has left it. BLOCK Block, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Blocked; p. pr. & vb. n. Blocking.] Etym: [Cf. F. bloquer, fr. bloc block. See Block, n.] 1. To obstruct so as to prevent passage or progress; to prevent passage from, through, or into, by obstructing the way; -- used both of persons and things; -- often followed by up; as, to block up a road or harbor. With moles . . . would block the port. Rowe. A city . . . besieged and blocked about. Milton. 2. To secure or support by means of blocks; to secure, as two boards at their angles of intersection, by pieces of wood glued to each. 3. To shape on, or stamp with, a block; as, to block a hat. To block out, to begin to reduce to shape; to mark out roughly; to lay out; as, to block out a plan. BLOCKADE Block*ade", n. Etym: [Cf. It. bloccata. See Block, v. t. ] 1. The shutting up of a place by troops or ships, with the purpose of preventing ingress or egress, or the reception of supplies; as, the blockade of the ports of an enemy. Note: Blockade is now usually applied to an investment with ships or vessels, while siege is used of an investment by land forces. To constitute a blockade, the investing power must be able to apply its force to every point of practicable access, so as to render it dangerous to attempt to enter; and there is no blockade of that port where its force can not be brought to bear. Kent. 2. An obstruction to passage. To raise a blockade. See under Raise. BLOCKADE Block*ade", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Blockaded; p. pr. & vb. n. Blockading.] 1. To shut up, as a town or fortress, by investing it with troops or vessels or war for the purpose of preventing ingress or egress, or the introduction of supplies. See note under Blockade, n. "Blockaded the place by sea." Gilpin. 2. Hence, to shut in so as to prevent egress. Till storm and driving ice blockade him there. Wordsworth. 3. To obstruct entrance to or egress from. Huge bales of British cloth blockade the door. Pope. BLOCKADER Block*ad"er, n. 1. One who blockades. 2. (Naut.) Defn: A vessel employed in blockading. BLOCKAGE Block"age, n. Defn: The act of blocking up; the state of being blocked up. BLOCK BOOK Block" book` (. Defn: A book printed from engraved wooden blocks instead of movable types. BLOCK CHAIN Block chain. (Mach.) Defn: A chain in which the alternate links are broad blocks connected by thin side links pivoted to the ends of the blocks, used with sprocket wheels to transmit power, as in a bicycle. BLOCKHEAD Block"head` (, n. Etym: [Block + head.] Defn: A stupid fellow; a dolt; a person deficient in understanding. The bookful blockhead, ignorantly read, With loads of learned lumber in his head. Pope. BLOCKHEADED Block"head`ed, a. Defn: Stupid; dull. BLOCKHEADISM Block"head*ism, n. Defn: That which characterizes a blockhead; stupidity. Carlyle. BLOCKHOUSE Block"house` (, n. Etym: [Block + house: cf. G. blockhaus.] 1. (Mil.) Defn: An edifice or structure of heavy timbers or logs for military defense, having its sides loopholed for musketry, and often an upper story projecting over the lower, or so placed upon it as to have its sides make an angle with the sides of the lower story, thus enabling the defenders to fire downward, and in all directions; -- formerly much used in America and Germany. 2. A house of squared logs. [West. & South. U. S.] BLOCKING Block"ing, n. 1. The act of obstructing, supporting, shaping, or stamping with a block or blocks. 2. Blocks used to support (a building, etc.) temporarily. BLOCKING COURSE Block"ing course` (. (Arch.) Defn: The finishing course of a wall showing above a cornice. BLOCKISH Block"ish, a. Defn: Like a block; deficient in understanding; stupid; dull. "Blockish Ajax." Shak. -- Block"ish*ly, adv. -- Block"ish*ness, n. BLOCKLIKE Block"like` (, a. Defn: Like a block; stupid. BLOCK SIGNAL Block signal. (Railroads) Defn: One of the danger signals or safety signals which guide the movement of trains in a block system. The signal is often so coupled with a switch that act of opening or closing the switch operates the signal also. BLOCK SYSTEM Block system. (Railroads) Defn: A system by which the track is divided into short sections, as of three or four miles, and trains are so run by the guidance of electric, or combined electric and pneumatic, signals that no train enters a section or block until the preceding train has left it, as in absolute blocking, or that a train may be allowed to follow another into a block as long as it proceeds with excessive caution, as in permissive blocking. BLOCK TIN Block" tin` (. Defn: See under Tin. BLOEDITE Bloe"dite, n. Etym: [From the chemist Blöde.] (Min.) Defn: A hydrous sulphate of magnesium and sodium. BLOLLY Blol"ly, n. (Bot.) (a) A shrub or small tree of southern Florida and the West Indies (Pisonia obtusata) with smooth oval leaves and a hard, 10-ribbed fruit. (b) The rubiaceous shrub Chicocca racemosa, of the same region. BLOMARY Blom"a*ry, n. Defn: See Bloomery. BLONCKET; BLONKET Blonc"ket, Blon"ket, a. Etym: [OF. blanquet whitish, dim. of blanc white. Cf. Blanket.] Defn: Gray; bluish gray. [Obs.] Our bloncket liveries been all too sad. Spenser. BLOND; BLONDE Blond, Blonde, a. Etym: [F., fair, light, of uncertain origin; cf. AS. blonden-feax gray-haired, old, prop. blended-haired, as a mixture of white and brown or black. See Blend, v. t. ] Defn: Of a fair color; light-colored; as, blond hair; a blond complexion. BLONDE Blonde, n. Etym: [F.]