[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

a yard below; -- used for raising or supporting the end of the yard. 8. (Mach.) Defn: One of the steps of a cone pulley. 9. (Shoemaking) Defn: A layer of leather in the heel. 10. (Horology) Defn: That portion of the vibration of a balance during which the impulse is given. Saunier. Dead lift. See under Dead. Swift. -- Lift bridge, a kind of drawbridge, the movable part of which is lifted, instead of being drawn aside. -- Lift gate, a gate that is opened by lifting. -- Lift hammer. See Tilt hammer. -- Lift lock, a canal lock. -- Lift pump, a lifting pump. -- Lift tenter (Windmills), a governor for regulating the speed by adjusting the sails, or for adjusting the action of grinding machinery according to the speed. -- Lift wall (Canal Lock), the cross wall at the head of the lock. LIFTABLE Lift"a*ble, a. Defn: Such as can be lifted. LIFTER Lift"er, n. 1. One who, or that which, lifts. 2. (Founding) Defn: A tool for lifting loose sand from the mold; also, a contrivance attached to a cope, to hold the sand together when the cope is lifted. LIFTING Lift"ing, a. Defn: Used in, or for, or by, lifting. Lifting bridge, a lift bridge. -- Lifting jack. See 2d Jack, 5. -- Lifting machine. See Health lift, under Health. -- Lifting pump. (Mach.) (a) A kind of pump having a bucket, or valved piston, instead of a solid piston, for drawing water and lifting it to a high level. (b) A pump which lifts the water only to the top of the pump, or delivers it through a spout; a lift pump. -- Lifting rod, a vertical rod lifted by a rock shaft, and imparting motion to a puppet valve; -- used in the engines of river steamboats. -- Lifting sail (Naut.), one which tends to lift a vessel's bow out of water, as jibs and square foresails. LIG Lig, v. i. Etym: [See Lie to be prostrate.] Defn: To recline; to lie still. [Obs. or Scot.] Chaucer. Spenser. LIGAMENT Lig"a*ment, n. Etym: [L. ligamentum, fr. ligare to bind; cf. f. ligament. Cf. Lien, n., Ligature.] 1. Anything that ties or unites one thing or part to another; a bandage; a bond. Hawthorne. Interwoven is the love of liberty with every ligament of your hearts. Washington. 2. (Anat.) (a) A tough band or plate of dense, fibrous, connective tissue or fibrocartilage serving to unite bones or form joints. (b) A band of connective tissue, or a membranous fold, which supports or retains an organ in place; as, the gastrophrenic ligament, connecting the diaphragm and stomach. LIGAMENTAL; LIGAMENTOUS Lig`a*men"tal, Lig"a*men"tous, a. Etym: [Cf. F. ligamenteux.] Defn: Composing a ligament; of the nature of a ligament; binding; as, a strong ligamentous membrane. LIGAN Li"gan, n.Etym: [Cf. L. ligare to bind, to tie, ligamen band, bandage, E. ligament, or ligsam.] (Law) Defn: Goods sunk in the sea, with a buoy attached in order that they may be found again. See Jetsam and Flotsam. [Written also lagan.] Blackstone. LIGATE Li"gate, v. t. Etym: [L. ligatus, p. p. of ligare.] Defn: To tie with a ligature; to bind around; to bandage. LIGATION Li*ga"tion, n. Etym: [L. ligatio, fr. ligare to bind. Cf. Liaison.] 1. The act of binding, or the state of being bound. 2. That which binds; bond; connection. Tied with tape, and sealed at each fold and ligation. Sir W. Scott. LIGATOR Li*ga"tor n. Etym: [See Ligate.] (Surg.) Defn: An instrument for ligating, or for placing and fastening a ligature. LIGATURE Lig"a*ture, n. Etym: [L. ligatura, fr. ligare, ligatum, to bind: cf. f. ligature. Cf. Ally, League, Legatura, Liable, Legament.] 1. The act of binding. 2. Anything that binds; a band or bandage. 3. (Surg.) (a) A thread or string for tying the blood vessels, particularly the arteries, to prevent hemorrhage. (b) A thread or wire used to remove tumors, etc. 4. The state of being bound or stiffened; stiffness; as, the ligature of a joint. 5. Impotence caused by magic or charms. [Obs.] 6. (Mus.) Defn: A curve or line connecting notes; a slur. 7. (Print.) Defn: A double character, or a type consisting of two or more letters or characters united, as æ, fi, ffl. LIGATURE Lig"a*ture, v. t. (Surg.) Defn: To ligate; to tie. LIGE Lig"e, v. t. & i. Defn: To lie; to tell lies. [Obs.] LIGEANCE Li"geance, n. Etym: [OF. ligeance, ligance. See Liege.] (O. Eng. Law) Defn: The connection between sovereign and subject by which they were mutually bound, the former to protection and the securing of justice, the latter to faithful service; allegiance. [Written also ligeancy and liegance.] Chaucer. LIGEMENT Lige"ment, n. Defn: See Ledgment LIGGE Lig"ge, v. i. Defn: To lie or recline. [Obs.] Chaucer. LIGGER Lig"ger, n. 1. A baited line attached to a float, for night fishing. See Leger, a. 2. See Ledger, 2. LIGHT Light, n. Etym: [OE.light, liht, AS. leót; akin to OS. lioht, D. & G. licht, OHG. lioht, Goth. liuhap, Icel. lj, L. lux light, lucere to shine, Gr. ruc to shine. Lucid, Lunar, Luminous, Lynx.] 1. That agent, force, or action in nature by the operation of which upon the organs of sight, objects are rendered visible or luminous. Note: Light was regarded formerly as consisting of material particles, or corpuscules, sent off in all directions from luminous bodies, and traversing space, in right lines, with the known velocity of about 186,300 miles per second; but it is now generally understood to consist, not in any actual transmission of particles or substance, but in the propagation of vibrations or undulations in a subtile, elastic medium, or ether, assumed to pervade all space, and to be thus set in vibratory motion by the action of luminous bodies, as the atmosphere is by sonorous bodies. This view of the nature of light is known as the undulatory or wave theory; the other, advocated by Newton (but long since abandoned), as the corpuscular, emission, or Newtonian theory. A more recent theory makes light to consist in electrical oscillations, and is known as the electro-magnetic theory of light. 2. That which furnishes, or is a source of, light, as the sun, a star, a candle, a lighthouse, etc. Then he called for a light, and sprang in. Acts xvi. 29. And God made two great lights; the greater light to rule the day, and the lesser light to rule the night. Gen. i. 16. 3. The time during which the light of the sun is visible; day; especially, the dawn of day. The murderer, rising with the light, killeth the poor and needy. Job xxiv. 14. 4. The brightness of the eye or eyes. He seemed to find his way without his eyes; For out o'door he went without their helps, And, to the last, bended their light on me. Shak. 5. The medium through which light is admitted, as a window, or window pane; a skylight; in architecture, one of the compartments of a window made by a mullion or mullions. There were windows in three rows, and light was against light in three ranks. I Kings vii.4. 6. Life; existence. O, spring to light, auspicious Babe, be born ! Pope. 7. Open view; a visible state or condition; public observation; publicity. The duke yet would have dark deeds darkly answered; he would never bring them to light. Shak. 8. The power of perception by vision. My strength faileth me; as for the light of my eyes, it also is gone from me. Ps. xxxviii. 10. 9. That which illumines or makes clear to the mind; mental or spiritual illumination; enlightenment; knowledge; information. He shall never know That I had any light of this from thee. Shak. 10. Prosperity; happiness; joy; felicity. Then shall thy light break forth as the morning, and thy health shall spring forth speedily. Is. lviii. 8. 11. (Paint.) Defn: The manner in which the light strikes upon a picture; that part of a picture which represents those objects upon which the light is supposed to fall; the more illuminated part of a landscape or other scene; -- opposed to shade. Cf. Chiaroscuro. 12. Appearance due to the particular facts and circumstances presented to view; point of view; as, to state things fairly and put them in the right light. Frequent consideration of a thing . . . shows it in its several lights and various ways of appearance. South. 13. One who is conspicuous or noteworthy; a model or example; as, the lights of the age or of antiquity. Joan of Are, A light of ancient France. Tennyson. 14. (Pyrotech.) Defn: A firework made by filling a case with a substance which burns brilliantly with a white or colored flame; as, a Bengal light. Note: Light is used figuratively to denote that which resembles physical light in any respect, as illuminating, benefiting, enlightening, or enlivening mankind. Ancient lights (Law), Calcium light, Flash light, etc. See under Ancient, Calcium, etc. --