[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

used by the sultans of Turkey, [Writting also calif.] CALIPHATE Cal"i*phate, n. Etym: [Cf. F. califat.] Defn: The office, dignity, or government of a caliph or of the caliphs. CALIPPIC Ca*lip"pic, a. Defn: Of or pertaining to Calippus, an Athenian astronomer. Calippic period, a period of seventy-six years, proposed by Calippus, as an improvement on the Metonic cycle, since the 6940 days of the Metonic cycle exceeded 19 years by about a quarter of a day, and exceeded 235 lunations by something more. CALISAYA BARK Cal`i*sa"ya bark. Defn: A valuable kind of Peruvian bark obtained from the Cinchona Calisaya, and other closely related species. CALISTHENEUM Cal`is*the"ne*um, n. Etym: [NL.] Defn: A gymnasium; esp. one for light physical exercise by women and children. CALISTHENIC Cal`is*then"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. Defn: Of or pertaining to calisthenics. CALISTHENICS Cal`is*then"ics, n. Defn: The science, art, or practice of healthful exercise of the body and limbs, to promote strength and gracefulness; light gymnastics. CALIVER Cal"i*ver, n. Etym: [Corrupted fr. caliber.] Defn: An early form of hand gun, variety of the arquebus; originally a gun having a regular size of bore. [Obs.] Shak. CALIX Ca"lix, n. Etym: [L.] Defn: A cup. See Calyx. CALK Calk, v. t. [imp. &p. p. Calked; p. pr. & vb. n. Calking.] Etym: [Either corrupted fr. F. calfater (cf. Pg. calafetar, Sp. calafetear), fr. Ar. qalafa to fill up crevices with the fibers of palm tree or moss; or fr. OE. cauken to tred, through the French fr. L. calcare, fr. calx heel. Cf. Calk to copy, Inculcate.] 1. To drive tarred oakum into the seams between the planks of (a ship, boat, etc.), to prevent leaking. The calking is completed by smearing the seams with melted pitch. 2. To make an indentation in the edge of a metal plate, as along a seam in a steam boiler or an iron ship, to force the edge of the upper plate hard against the lower and so fill the crevice. CALK Calk, v. t. Etym: [E.calquer to trace, It. caicare to trace, to trample, fr. L. calcare to trample, fr. calx heel. Cf. Calcarate.] Defn: To copy, as a drawing, by rubbing the back of it with red or black chalk, and then passing a blunt style or needle over the lines, so as to leave a tracing on the paper or other thing against which it is laid or held. [Writting also calque] CALK Calk, n. Etym: [Cf. AS calc shoe, hoof, L. calx, calcis, hel, cälcar, spur.] 1. A sharp-pointed piece or iron or steel projecting downward on the shoe of a nore or an ox, to prevent the animal from slipping; -- called also calker, calkin. 2. An instrument with sharp points, worn on the sole of a shoe or boot, to prevent slipping. CALK Calk, v. i. 1. To furnish with calks, to prevent slipping on ice; as, to calk the shoes of a horse or an ox. 2. To wound with a calk; as when a horse injures a leg or a foot with a calk on one of the other feet. CALKER Calk"er, n. 1. One who calks. 2. A calk on a shoe. See Calk, n., 1. CALKIN Calk"in, n. Defn: A calk on a shoe. See Calk, n., 1. CALKING Calk"ing, n. Defn: The act or process of making seems tight, as in ships, or of furnishing with calks, as a shoe, or copying, as a drawing. Calking iron, a tool like a chisel, used in calking ships, tightening seams in ironwork, etc. Their left hand does the calking iron guide. Dryden. CALL Call, v. i. [imp.& p. p. Called; p. r. & vb. n. Calling] Etym: [OE. callen, AS. ceallin; akin to Icel & Sw. kalla, Dan. kalde, D. kallen to talk, prate, Gr. gar to praise. Cf. Garrulous.] 1. To command or request to come or be present; to summon; as, to call a servant. Call hither Clifford; bid him come amain Shak. 2. To summon to the discharge of a particular duty; to designate for an office, or employment, especially of a religious character; -- often used of a divine summons; as, to be called to the ministry; sometimes, to invite; as, to call a minister to be the pastor of a church. Paul . . . called to be an apostle Rom. i. 1. The Holy Ghost said, Separate me Barnabas and Saul for the work whereunto I have called them. Acts xiii. 2. 3. To invite or command to meet; to convoke; -- often with together; as, the President called Congress together; to appoint and summon; as, to call a meeting of the Board of Aldermen. Now call we our high court of Parliament. Shak. 4. To give name to; to name; to address, or speak of, by a specifed name. If you would but call me Rosalind. Shak. And God called the light Day, and the darkness he called Night. Gen. i. 5. 5. To regard or characterize as of a certain kind; to denominate; to designate. What God hath cleansed, that call not thou common. Acts x. 15. 6. To state, or estimate, approximately or loosely; to characterize without strict regard to fact; as, they call the distance ten miles; he called it a full day's work. [The] army is called seven hundred thousand men. Brougham. 7. To show or disclose the class, character, or nationality of. [Obs.] This speech calls him Spaniard. Beau. & Fl. 8. To utter in a loud or distinct voice; -- often with off; as, to call, or call off, the items of an account; to call the roll of a military company. No parish clerk who calls the psalm so clear. Gay. 9. To invoke; to appeal to. I call God for a witness. 2 Cor. i. 23 [Rev. Ver. ] 10. To rouse from sleep; to awaken. If thou canst awake by four o' the clock. I prithee call me. Sleep hath seized me wholly. Shak. To call a bond, to give notice that the amount of the bond will be paid. -- To call a party (Law), to cry aloud his name in open court, and command him to come in and perform some duty requiring his presence at the time on pain of what may befall him. -- To call back, to revoke or retract; to recall; to summon back. -- To call down, to pray for, as blessing or curses. -- To call forth, to bring or summon to action; as, to call forth all the faculties of the mind. -- To call in, (a) To collect; as, to call in debts or money; ar to withdraw from cirulation; as, to call in uncurrent coin. (b) To summon to one's side; to invite to come together; as, to call in neighbors. -- To call (any one) names, to apply contemptuous names (to any one). -- To call off, to summon away; to divert; as, to call off the attention; to call off workmen from their employment. -- To call out. (a) To summon to fight; to challenge. (b) To summon into service; as, to call out the militia. -- To call over, to recite separate particulars in order, as a roll of names. -- To call to account, to demand explanation of. -- To call to mind, to recollect; to revive in memory. -- To call to order, to request to come to order; as: (a) A public meeting, when opening it for business. (b) A person, when he is transgressing the rules of debate. -- To call to the bar, to admit to practice in courts of law. -- To call up. (a) To bring into view or recollection; as to call up the image of deceased friend. (b) To bring into action or discussion; to demand the consideration of; as, to call up a bill before a legislative body. Syn. -- To name; denominate; invite; bid; summon; convoke; assemble; collect; exhort; warn; proclaim; invoke; appeal to; designate. To Call, Convoke, Summon. Call is the generic term; as, to call a public meeting. To convoke is to require the assembling of some organized body of men by an act of authority; as, the king convoked Parliament. To summon is to require attendance by an act more or less stringent anthority; as, to summon a witness. CALL Call, v. i. 1. To speak in loud voice; to cry out; to address by name; -- sometimes with to. You must call to the nurse. Shak. The angel of God called to Hagar. Gen. xxi. 17. 2. To make a demand, requirement, or request. They called for rooms, and he showed them one. Bunyan. 3. To make a brief visit; also, to stop at some place designated, as for orders. He ordered her to call at the house once a week. Temple. To call for (a) To demand; to require; as, a crime calls for punishment; a survey, grant, or deed calls for the metes and bounds, or the quantity