[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

a jest. "Patroclus . . . the livelong day break scurril jests." Shak. -- To break joints, to lay or arrange bricks, shingles, etc., so that the joints in one course shall not coincide with those in the preceding course. -- To break a lance, to engage in a tilt or contest. -- To break the neck, to dislocate the joints of the neck. -- To break no squares, to create no trouble. [Obs.] -- To break a path, road, etc., to open a way through obstacles by force or labor. -- To break upon a wheel, to execute or torture, as a criminal by stretching him upon a wheel, and breaking his limbs with an iron bar; -- a mode of punishment formerly employed in some countries. -- To break wind, to give vent to wind from the anus. Syn. -- To dispart; rend; tear; shatter; batter; violate; infringe; demolish; destroy; burst; dislocate. BREAK Break, v. i. 1. To come apart or divide into two or more pieces, usually with suddenness and violence; to part; to burst asunder. 2. To open spontaneously, or by pressure from within, as a bubble, a tumor, a seed vessel, a bag. Else the bottle break, and the wine runneth out. Math. ix. 17. 3. To burst forth; to make its way; to come to view; to appear; to dawn. The day begins to break, and night is fied. Shak. And from the turf a fountain broke, and gurgled at our feet. Wordswoorth. 4. To burst forth violently, as a storm. The clouds are still above; and, while I speak, A second deluge o'er our head may break. Shak. 5. To open up. to be scattered; t be dissipated; as, the clouds are breaking. At length the darkness begins to break. Macawlay. 6. To become weakened in constitution or faculties; to lose health or strength. See how the dean begins to break; Poor gentleman . Swift. 7. To be crushed, or overwhelmed with sorrow or grief; as, my heart is breaking. 8. To fall in business; to become bankrupt. He that puts all upon adventures doth oftentimes break, and come to poverty. Bacn. 9. To make an abrupt or sudden change; to change the gait; as, to break into a run or gallop. 10. To fail in musical quality; as, a singer's voice breaks when it is strained beyond its compass and a tone or note is not completed, but degenerates into an unmusical sound instead. Also, to change in tone, as a boy's voice at puberty. 11. To fall out; to terminate friendship. To break upon the score of danger or expense is to be mean and narrow-spirited. Collier. Note: With prepositions or adverbs: -To break away, to disengage one's self abruptly; to come or go away against resistance. Fear me not, man; I will not break away. Shak. To break down. (a) To come down by breaking; as, the coach broke down. (b) To fail in any undertaking. He had broken down almost at the outset. Thackeray. -- To break forth, to issue; to come out suddenly, as sound, light, etc. "Then shall thy light break forth as the morning." Isa. lviii. 8; Note: often with into in expressing or giving vent to one's feelings. "Break forth into singing, ye mountains." Isa. xliv. 23. To break from, to go away from abruptly. This radiant from the circling crowd he broke. Dryden. -- To break into, to enter by breaking; as, a house. -- To break in upon, to enter or approach violently or unexpectedly. "This, this is he; softly awhile; let us not break in upon him." Milton. -- To break loose. (a) To extricate one's self forcibly. "Who would not, finding way, break loose from hell" Milton. (b) To cast off restraint, as of morals or propriety. -- To break off. (a) To become separated by rupture, or with suddenness and violence. (b) To desist or cease suddenly. "Nay, forward, old man; do not break off so." Shak. -- To break off from, to desist from; to abandon, as a habit. -- To break out. (a) To burst forth; to escape from restraint; to appear suddenly, as a fire or an epidemic. "For in the wilderness shall waters break out, and stream in the desert." Isa. xxxv. 6 (b) To show itself in cutaneous eruptions; -- said of a disease. (c) To have a rash or eruption on the akin; -- said of a patient. -- To break over, to overflow; to go beyond limits. -- To break up. (a) To become separated into parts or fragments; as, the ice break up in the rivers; the wreck will break up in the next storm. (b) To disperse. "The company breaks up." I. Watts. -- To break upon, to discover itself suddenly to; to dawn upon. -- To break with. (a) To fall out; to sever one's relations with; to part friendship. "It can not be the Volsces dare break with us." Shak. "If she did not intend to marry Clive, she should have broken with him altogether." Thackeray. (b) To come to an explanation; to enter into conference; to speak. [Obs.] "I will break with her and with her father." Shak. BREAK Break, n. Etym: [See Break, v. t., and cf. Brake (the instrument), Breach, Brack a crack.] 1. An opening made by fracture or disruption. 2. An interruption of continuity; change of direction; as, a break in a wall; a break in the deck of a ship. Specifically: (a) (Arch.) A projection or recess from the face of a displacement in the circuit, interrupting the electrical current. 3. An interruption; a pause; as, a break in friendship; a break in the conversation. 4. An interruption in continuity in writing or printing, as where there is an omission, an unfilled line, etc. All modern trash is Set forth with numerous breaks and dashes. Swift. 5. The first appearing, as of light in the morning; the dawn; as, the break of day; the break of dawn. 6. A large four-wheeled carriage, having a straight body and calash top, with the driver's seat in front and the footman's behind. 7. A device for checking motion, or for measuring friction. See Brake, n. 9 & 10. 8. (Teleg.) Defn: See Commutator. BREAKABLE Break"a*ble, a. Defn: Capable of being broken. BREAKAGE Break"age, n. 1. The act of breaking; a break; a breaking; also, articles broken. 2. An allowance or compensation for things broken accidentally, as in transportation or use. BREAKAWAY Break"a*way`, n. [Break + away] [Australasia] 1. Defn: A wild rush of sheep, cattle, horses, or camels (especially at the smell or the sight of water); a stampede. 2. An animal that breaks away from a herd. BREAKBONE FEVER Break"bone` fe`ver. (Med.) Defn: See Dengue. BREAK-CIRCUIT Break"-cir`cuit, n. (Elec.) Defn: A key or other device for breaking an electrical circuit. BREAKDOWN Break"down`, n. 1. The act or result of breaking down, as of a carriage; downfall. 2. (a) A noisy, rapid, shuffling dance engaged in competitively by a number of persons or pairs in succession, as among the colored people of the Southern United States, and so called, perhaps, because the exercise is continued until most of those who take part in it break down. (b) Any rude, noisy dance performed by shuffling the feet, usually by one person at a time. [U.S.] Don't clear out when the quadrilles are over, for we are going to have a breakdown to wind up with. New Eng. Tales. BREAKER Break"er, n. 1. One who, or that which, breaks. I'll be no breaker of the law. Shak. 2. Specifically: A machine for breaking rocks, or for breaking coal at the mines; also, the building in which such a machine is placed. 3. (Naut.) Defn: A small water cask. Totten. 4. A wave breaking into foam against the shore, or against a sand bank, or a rock or reef near the surface. The breakers were right beneath her bows. Longfellow. BREAKFAST Break"fast, n. Etym: [Break + fast.] 1. The first meal in the day, or that which is eaten at the first meal. A sorry breakfast for my lord protector. Shak. 2. A meal after fasting, or food in general. The wolves will get a breakfast by my death. Dryden. BREAKFAST Break"fast, v. i. [imp. & p. p. breakfasted; p. pr. & vb. n. Breakfasting.] Defn: To break one's fast in the morning; too eat the first meal in the day. First, sir, I read, and then I breakfast. Prior. BREAKFAST Break"fast, v. t. Defn: To furnish with breakfast. Milton. BREAKMAN Break"man, n. Defn: See Brakeman. BREAKNECK Break"neck`, n. 1. A fall that breaks the neck. 2. A steep place endangering the neck. BREAKNECK Break"neck`, a. Defn: Producing danger of a broken neck; as, breakneck speed. BREAK-UP Break"-up`, n. Defn: Disruption; a separation and dispersion of the parts or members; as, a break-up of an assembly or dinner party; a break-up of the government. BREAKWATER Break"wa`ter, n. Defn: Any