[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

Na (Natrium). Atomic weight 23. Specific gravity 0.97. Sodium amalgam, an alloy of sodium and mercury, usually produced as a gray metallic crystalline substance, which is used as a reducing agent, and otherwise. -- Sodium bicarbonate, a white crystalline substance, HNaCO3, with a slight alkaline taste resembling that of sodium carbonate. It is found in many mineral springs and also produced artificially,. It is used in cookery, in baking powders, and as a source of carbonic acid gas (carbon dioxide) for soda water. Called also cooking soda, saleratus, and technically, acid sodium carbonate, primary sodium carbonate, sodium dicarbonate, etc. -- Sodium carbonate, a white crystalline substance, Na2CO3.10H2O, having a cooling alkaline taste, found in the ashes of many plants, and produced artifically in large quantities from common salt. It is used in making soap, glass, paper, etc., and as alkaline agent in many chemical industries. Called also sal soda, washing soda, or soda. Cf. Sodium bicarbonate, above and Trona. Sodium chloride, common, or table, salt, NaCl. -- Sodium hydroxide, a white opaque brittle solid, NaOH, having a fibrous structure, produced by the action of quicklime, or of calcium hydrate (milk of lime), on sodium carbonate. It is a strong alkali, and is used in the manufacture of soap, in making wood pulp for paper, etc. Called also sodium hydrate, and caustic soda. By extension, a solution of sodium hydroxide. SODIUM SULPHATE So"di*um sul"phate. Defn: A salt well known as a catharic under the name of Glauber's salt, which term is properly applied to the hydrate, Na2SO4.10H2O. SODOMITE Sod"om*ite, n. 1. An inhabitant of Sodom. 2. One guilty of sodomy. SODOMITICAL Sod`om*it"ic*al, a. Defn: Pertaining to, or of the nature of, sodomy. -- Sod`om*it"ic*al*ly, adv. SODOMY Sod"om*y, n. Etym: [From Sodom. a country mentioned in the Bible: cf. F. sodomite.] Defn: Carnal copulation in a manner against nature; buggery. Gen. xix. 5. SOE Soe, n. Etym: [Scot. sae, say, saye; cf. Icel. sar a large cask, Sw. s a tub.] Defn: A large wooden vessel for holding water; a cowl. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Dr. H. More. SOEVER So*ev"er. Defn: A word compounded of so and ever, used in composition with who, what, where, when, how, etc., and indicating any out of all possible or supposable persons, things, places, times, ways, etc. It is sometimes used separate from the pronoun or adverb. For unto whomsoever much is given, of him shall be much required. Luke xii. 48. What great thing soever a man proposed to do in his life, he should think of achieving it by fifty. Sir W. Temple. SOFA So"fa, n.; pl. Sofas. Etym: [Ar. soffah, from saffa to dispose in order: cf. F. sofa, It.sofà.] Defn: A long seat, usually with a cushioned bottom, back, and ends; - - much used as a comfortable piece of furniture. Let fall the curtains, wheel the sofa round. Cowper. Sofa bed, a sofa so contrived that it may be extended to form a bed; -- called also sofa bedstead. SOFFIT Sof"fit, n. Etym: [It. soffitta, soffitto, fr. soffiggere to hide, properly, to fix or fasten under, L. suffigere to fasten beneath or below; sub under, beneath + figere to fix, faste: cf. F. soffite.] (Arch.) Defn: The under side of the subordinate parts and members of buildings, such as staircases, entablatures, archways, cornices, or the like. See Illust. of Lintel. SOFI So"fi, n.; pl. Sofis (. Defn: Same as Sufi. SOFISM So"fism, n. Defn: Same as Sufism. SOFT Soft, a. [Compar. Softer; superl. Softest.] Etym: [OE. softe, AS. s, properly adv. of s, adj.; akin to OS. safto, adv., D. zacht, OHG. samfto, adv., semfti, adj., G. sanft, LG. sacht; of uncertain origin.] 1. Easily yielding to pressure; easily impressed, molded, or cut; not firm in resisting; impressible; yielding; also, malleable; -- opposed to Ant: hard; as, a soft bed; a soft peach; soft earth; soft wood or metal. 2. Not rough, rugged, or harsh to the touch; smooth; delicate; fine; as, soft silk; a soft skin. They that wear soft clothing are in king's houses. Matt. xi. 8. 3. Hence, agreeable to feel, taste, or inhale; not irritating to the tissues; as, a soft liniment; soft wines. "The soft, delicious air." Milton. 4. Not harsh or offensive to the sight; not glaring; pleasing to the eye; not exciting by intensity of color or violent contrast; as, soft hues or tints. The sun, shining upon the upper part of the clouds . . . made the softest lights imaginable. Sir T. Browne. 5. Not harsh or rough in sound; gentle and pleasing to the ear; flowing; as, soft whispers of music. Her voice was ever soft, Gentle, and low, -- an excellent thing in woman. Shak. Soft were my numbers; who could take offense Pope. 6. Easily yielding; susceptible to influence; flexible; gentle; kind. I would to God my heart were flint, like Edward's; Or Edward's soft and pitiful, like mine. Shak. The meek or soft shall inherit the earth. Tyndale. 7. Expressing gentleness, tenderness, or the like; mild; conciliatory; courteous; kind; as, soft eyes. A soft answer turneth away wrath. Prov. xv. 1. A face with gladness overspread, Soft smiles, by human kindness bred. Wordsworth. 8. Effeminate; not courageous or manly, weak. A longing after sensual pleasures is a dissolution of the spirit of a man, and makes it loose, soft, and wandering. Jer. Taylor. 9. Gentle in action or motion; easy. On her soft axle, white she paces even, And bears thee soft with the smooth air along. Milton. 10. Weak in character; impressible. The deceiver soon found this soft place of Adam's. Glanvill. 11. Somewhat weak in intellect. [Colloq.] He made soft fellows stark noddies, and such as were foolish quite mad. Burton. 12. Quiet; undisturbed; paceful; as, soft slumbers. 13. Having, or consisting of, a gentle curve or curves; not angular or abrupt; as, soft outlines. 14. Not tinged with mineral salts; adapted to decompose soap; as, soft water is the best for washing. 15. (Phonetics) (a) Applied to a palatal, a sibilant, or a dental consonant (as g in gem, c in cent, etc.) as distinguished from a guttural mute (as g in go, c in cone, etc.); -- opposed to hard. (b) Belonging to the class of sonant elements as distinguished from the surd, and considered as involving less force in utterance; as, b, d, g, z, v, etc., in contrast with p, t, k, s, f, etc. Soft clam (Zoöl.), the common or long clam (Mya arenaria). See Mya. -- Soft coal, bituminous coal, as distinguished from anthracite, or hard, coal. -- Soft crab (Zoöl.), any crab which has recently shed its shell. -- Soft dorsal (Zoöl.), the posterior part of the dorsal fin of fishes when supported by soft rays. -- Soft grass. (Bot.) See Velvet grass. -- Soft money, paper money, as distinguished from coin, or hard money. [Colloq. U.S.] -- Soft mute. (Phonetics) See Media. -- Soft palate. See the Note under Palate. -- Soft ray (Zoöl.), a fin ray which is articulated and usually branched. -- Soft soap. See under Soap. -- Soft-tack, leavened bread, as distinguished from hard-tack, or ship bread. -- Soft tortoise (Zoöl.), any river tortoise of the genus Trionyx. See Trionyx. SOFT Soft, n. Defn: A soft or foolish person; an idiot. [Colloq.] G. Eliot. SOFT Soft, adv. Defn: Softly; without roughness or harshness; gently; quietly. Chaucer. A knight soft riding toward them. Spenser. SOFT Soft, interj. Defn: Be quiet; hold; stop; not so fast. Soft, you; a word or two before you go. Shak. SOFTA Sof"ta, n. Etym: [Corruption of Per. s one who burns, is ardent or zealous.] Defn: Any one attached to a Mohammedan mosque, esp. a student of the higher branches of theology in a mosque school. [Written also sophta.] SOFTEN Sof"ten, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Softened; p. pr. & vb. n. Softening.] Defn: To make soft or more soft. Specifically: -- (a) To render less hard; -- said of matter. Their arrow's point they soften in the flame. Gay. (b) To mollify; to make less fierce or intractable. Diffidence conciliates the proud, and softens the severe. Rambler. (c) To palliate; to represent as less enormous; as, to soften a fault. (d) To compose; to mitigate; to assuage. Music can soften pain to ease. Pope. (e) To make calm and placid. All that cheers or softens life. Pope. (f) To make less harsh, less rude, less offensive, or less violent, or to render of an opposite quality. He bore his great commision in his look, But tempered awe, and softened all he spoke. Dryden. (g) To make less glaring; to tone down; as, to soften the coloring of a picture. (h) To make tender; to make effeminate; to enervate; as, troops softened by luxury. (i) To make less harsh or grating, or of a quality the opposite; as, to soften the voice. SOFTEN Sof"ten, v. i. Defn: To become soft or softened, or less rude, harsh, severe, or obdurate. SOFTENER