[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

such a manner. The definition of wit is only this, that it is a propriety of thoughts and words; or, in other terms, thoughts and words elegantly adapted to the subject. Dryden. Wit which discovers partial likeness hidden in general diversity. Coleridge. Wit lying most in the assemblage of ideas, and putting those together with quickness and variety wherein can be found any resemblance or congruity, thereby to make up pleasant pictures in the fancy. Locke. 4. A person of eminent sense or knowledge; a man of genius, fancy, or humor; one distinguished for bright or amusing sayings, for repartee, and the like. In Athens, where books and wits were ever busier than in any other part of Greece, I find but only two sorts of writings which the magistrate cared to take notice of; those either blasphemous and atheistical, or libelous. Milton. Intemperate wits will spare neither friend nor foe. L'Estrange. A wit herself, Amelia weds a wit. Young. The five wits, the five senses; also, sometimes, the five qualities or faculties, common wit, imagination, fantasy, estimation, and memory. Chaucer. Nares. But my five wits nor my five senses can Dissuade one foolish heart from serving thee. Shak. Syn. -- Ingenuity; humor; satire; sarcasm; irony; burlesque. -- Wit, Humor. Wit primarily meant mind; and now denotes the power of seizing on some thought or occurrence, and, by a sudden turn, presenting it under aspects wholly new and unexpected -- apparently natural and admissible, if not perfectly just, and bearing on the subject, or the parties concerned, with a laughable keenness and force. "What I want," said a pompous orator, aiming at his antagonist, "is common sense." "Exactly!" was the whispered reply. The pleasure we find in wit arises from the ingenuity of the turn, the sudden surprise it brings, and the patness of its application to the case, in the new and ludicrous relations thus flashed upon the view. Humor is a quality more congenial to the English mind than wit. It consists primarily in taking up the peculiarities of a humorist (or eccentric person) and drawing them out, as Addison did those of Sir Roger de Coverley, so that we enjoy a hearty, good-natured laugh at his unconscious manifestation of whims and oddities. From this original sense the term has been widened to embrace other sources of kindly mirth of the same general character. In a well-known caricature of English reserve, an Oxford student is represented as standing on the brink of a river, greatly agitated at the sight of a drowning man before him, and crying out, "O that I had been introduced to this gentleman, that I might save his life! The, "Silent Woman" of Ben Jonson is one of the most humorous productions, in the original sense of the term, which we have in our language. WITAN Wit"an, n. pl. [AS., pl. of wita sage, councilor.] Defn: Lit., wise men; specif. (A.-S. Hist.), Defn: the members of the national, or king's, council which sat to assist the king in administrative and judicial matters; also, the council. WITCH Witch, n. Etym: [Cf. Wick of a lamp.] Defn: A cone of paper which is placed in a vessel of lard or other fat, and used as a taper. [Prov. Eng.] WITCH Witch, n. Etym: [OE. wicche, AS. wicce, fem., wicca, masc.; perhaps the same word as AS. witiga, witga, a soothsayer (cf. Wiseacre); cf. Fries. wikke, a witch, LG. wikken to predict, Icel. vitki a wizard, vitka to bewitch.] 1. One who practices the black art, or magic; one regarded as possessing supernatural or magical power by compact with an evil spirit, esp. with the Devil; a sorcerer or sorceress; -- now applied chiefly or only to women, but formerly used of men as well. There was a man in that city whose name was Simon, a witch. Wyclif (Acts viii. 9). He can not abide the old woman of Brentford; he swears she's a witch. Shak. 2. An ugly old woman; a hag. Shak. 3. One who exercises more than common power of attraction; a charming or bewitching person; also, one given to mischief; -- said especially of a woman or child. [Colloq.] 4. (Geom.) Defn: A certain curve of the third order, described by Maria Agnesi under the name versiera. 5. (Zoöl.) Defn: The stormy petrel. Witch balls, a name applied to the interwoven rolling masses of the stems of herbs, which are driven by the winds over the steppes of Tartary. Cf. Tumbleweed. Maunder (Treas. of Bot.) -- Witches' besoms (Bot.), tufted and distorted branches of the silver fir, caused by the attack of some fungus. Maunder (Treas. of Bot.) -- Witches' butter (Bot.), a name of several gelatinous cryptogamous plants, as Nostoc commune, and Exidia glandulosa. See Nostoc. -- Witch grass (Bot.), a kind of grass (Panicum capillare) with minute spikelets on long, slender pedicels forming a light, open panicle. -- Witch meal (Bot.), vegetable sulphur. See under Vegetable. WITCH Witch, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Witched; p. pr. & vb. n. Witching.] Etym: [AS. wiccian.] Defn: To bewitch; to fascinate; to enchant. [I 'll] witch sweet ladies with my words and looks. Shak. Whether within us or without The spell of this illusion be That witches us to hear and see. Lowell. WITCHCRAFT Witch"craft`, n. Etym: [AS. wiccecræft.] 1. The practices or art of witches; sorcery; enchantments; intercourse with evil spirits. 2. Power more than natural; irresistible influence. He hath a witchcraft Over the king in 's tongue. Shak. WITCH-ELM Witch"-elm`, n. (Bot.) Defn: See Wych-elm. WITCHERY Witch"er*y, n; pl. Witcheries (. 1. Sorcery; enchantment; witchcraft. Great Comus, Deep skilled in all his mother's witcheries. Milton. A woman infamous . . . for witcheries. Sir W. Scott. 2. Fascination; irresistible influence; enchantment. He never felt The witchery of the soft blue sky. Wordsworth. The dear, dear witchery of song. Bryant. WITCH-HAZEL Witch"-ha`zel, n. Etym: [See Wych-elm, and Hazel.] (Bot.) Defn: The wych-elm. (b) An American shrub or small tree (Hamamelis Virginica), which blossoms late in autumn. WITCHING Witch"ing, a. Defn: That witches or enchants; suited to enchantment or witchcraft; bewitching. "The very witching time of night." Shak. -- Witch"ing*ly, adv. WITCH-TREE Witch"-tree`, n. (Bot.) Defn: The witch-hazel. WITCHUCK Wit"chuck`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: The sand martin, or bank swallow. [Prov. Eng.] WIT-CRACKER Wit"-crack`er, n. Defn: One who breaks jests; a joker. [Obs.] Shak. WITCRAFT Wit"craft`, n. 1. Art or skill of the mind; contrivance; invention; wit. [Obs.] Camden. 2. The art of reasoning; logic. [R.] WITE Wite, v. t. Etym: [AS. witan; akin to D. wijten, G. verweisen, Icel. vita to mulct, and E. wit; cf. AS. witan to see, L. animadvertere to observe, to punish. Wit, v.] Defn: To reproach; to blame; to censure; also, to impute as blame. [Obs. or Scot.] Spenser. Though that I be jealous, wite me not. Chaucer. There if that I misspeak or say, Wite it the ale of Southwark, I you pray. Chaucer. WITE Wite, n. Etym: [AS. wite punishment. Wite, v.] Defn: Blame; reproach. [Obs. or Scot.] Chaucer. WITELESS Wite"less, a. Defn: Blameless. [Obs.] Spenser. WITEN Wit"en, obs. Defn: pl. pres. of Wit. Chaucer. WITENAGEMOTE Wit"e*na*ge*mote`, n. Etym: [AS. witena gemot an assembly of the wise; wita a wise man + gemot assembly.] (AS. Hist.) Defn: A meeting of wise men; the national council, or legislature, of England in the days of the Anglo-Saxons, before the Norman Conquest. WITFISH Wit"fish`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: The ladyfish (a). WITFUL Wit"ful, a. Defn: Wise; sensible. [R.] Chapman. WITH With, n. Defn: See Withe. WITH With, prep. Etym: [OE. with, AS. wi with, against; akin to AS. wi against, OFries. with, OS. wi, wi, D. weder, weêr (in comp.), G. wider against, wieder gain, OHG. widar again, against, Icel. vi against, with, by, at, Sw. vid at, by, Dan. ved, Goth. wipra against, Skr. vi asunder. Cf. Withdraw, Withers, Withstand.] Defn: With denotes or expresses some situation or relation of nearness, proximity, association, connection, or the like. It is used especially: -- 1. To denote a close or direct relation of opposition or hostility; - - equivalent to against. Thy servant will . . . fight with this Philistine. 1 Sam. xvii. 32. Note: In this sense, common in Old English, it is now obsolete except in a few compounds; as, withhold; withstand; and after the verbs fight, contend, struggle, and the like. 2. To denote association in respect of situation or environment; hence, among; in the company of. I will buy with you, talk with you, walk with you, and so following; but I will not eat with you, drink with you, nor pray with you. Shak. Pity your own, or pity our estate, Nor twist our fortunes with your sinking fate. Dryden. See where on earth the flowery glories lie; With her they flourished, and with her they die. Pope. There is no living with thee nor without thee. Tatler. Such arguments had invincible force with those pagan philosophers. Addison. 3. To denote a connection of