[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

upon ceremony. (d) To attack; to assault. [A Hebraism] "So I stood upon him, and slew him." 2 Sam. i. 10. -- To stand with, to be consistent with. "It stands with reason that they should be rewarded liberally." Sir J. Davies. STAND Stand, v. t. 1. To endure; to sustain; to bear; as, I can not stand the cold or the heat. 2. To resist, without yielding or receding; to withstand. "Love stood the siege." Dryden. He stood the furious foe. Pope. 3. To abide by; to submit to; to suffer. Bid him disband his legions, . . . And stand the judgment of a Roman senate. Addison. 4. To set upright; to cause to stand; as, to stand a book on the shelf; to stand a man on his feet. 5. To be at the expense of; to pay for; as, to stand a treat. [Colloq.] Tackeray. To stand fire, to receive the fire of arms from an enemy without giving way. -- To stand one's ground, to keep the ground or station one has taken; to maintain one's position. "Pleasants and burghers, however brave, are unable to stand their ground against veteran soldiers." Macaulay. -- To stand trial, to sustain the trial or examination of a cause; not to give up without trial. STAND Stand, n. Etym: [As. stand. See Stand, v. i.] 1. The act of standing. I took my stand upon an eminence . . . to look into thier several ladings. Spectator. 2. A halt or stop for the purpose of defense, resistance, or opposition; as, to come to, or to make, a stand. Vice is at stand, and at the highest flow. Dryden. 3. A place or post where one stands; a place where one may stand while observing or waiting for something. I have found you out a stand most fit, Where you may have such vantage on the duke, He shall not pass you. Shak. 4. A station in a city or town where carriages or wagons stand for hire; as, a cab stand. Dickens. 5. A raised platform or station where a race or other outdoor spectacle may be viewed; as, the judge's or the grand stand at a race course. 6. A small table; also, something on or in which anything may be laid, hung, or placed upright; as, a hat stand; an umbrella stand; a music stand. 7. A place where a witness stands to testify in court. 8. The situation of a shop, store, hotel, etc.; as, a good, bad, or convenient stand for business. [U. S.] 9. Rank; post; station; standing. Father, since your fortune did attain So high a stand, I mean not to descend. Daniel. 10. A state of perplexity or embarrassment; as, to be at a stand what to do. L'Estrange. 11. A young tree, usually reserved when other trees are cut; also, a tree growing or standing upon its own root, in distinction from one produced from a scion set in a stock, either of the same or another kind of tree. 12. (Com.) Defn: A weight of from two hundred and fifty to three hundred pounds, -- used in weighing pitch. Microscope stand, the instrument, excepting the eyepiece, objective, and other removable optical parts. -- Stand of ammunition, the projectile, cartridge, and sabot connected together. -- Stand of arms. (Mil.) See under Arms. -- Stand of colors (Mil.), a single color, or flag. Wilhelm (Mil. Dict.) -- To be at a stand, to be stationary or motionless; to be at a standstill; hence, to be perplexed; to be embarrassed. -- To make a stand, to halt for the purpose of offering resistance to a pursuing enemy. Syn. -- Stop; halt; rest; interruption; obstruction; perplexity; difficulty; embarrassment; hesitation. STANDAGE Stand"age, n. (Mining) Defn: A reservior in which water accumulates at the bottom of a mine. STANDARD Stand"ard, n. Etym: [OF. estendart, F. étendard, probably fr. L. extendere to spread out, extend, but influenced by E. stand. See Extend.] 1. A flag; colors; a banner; especially, a national or other ensign. His armies, in the following day, On those fair plains their standards proud display. Fairfax. 2. That which is established by authority as a rule for the measure of quantity, extent, value, or quality; esp., the original specimen weight or measure sanctioned by government, as the standard pound, gallon, or yard. 3. That which is established as a rule or model by authority, custom, or general consent; criterion; test. The court, which used to be the standard of property and correctness of speech. Swift. A disposition to preserve, and an ability to improve, taken together, would be my standard of a statesman. Burke. 4. (Coinage) Defn: The proportion of weights of fine metal and alloy established by authority. By the present standard of the coinage, sixty-two shillings is coined out of one pound weight of silver. Arbuthnot. 5. (Hort.) Defn: A tree of natural size supported by its own stem, and not dwarfed by grafting on the stock of a smaller species nor trained upon a wall or trellis. In France part of their gardens is laid out for flowers, others for fruits; some standards, some against walls. Sir W. Temple. 6. (Bot.) Defn: The upper petal or banner of a papilionaceous corolla. 7. (Mech. & Carp.) Defn: An upright support, as one of the poles of a scaffold; any upright in framing. 8. (Shipbuilding) Defn: An inverted knee timber placed upon the deck instead of beneath it, with its vertical branch turned upward from that which lies horizontally. 9. The sheth of a plow. 10. A large drinking cup. Greene. Standard bearer, an officer of an army, company, or troop, who bears a standard; -- commonly called color sergeantor color bearer; hence, the leader of any organization; as, the standard bearer of a political party. STANDARD Stand"ard, a. 1. Being, affording, or according with, a standard for comparison and judgment; as, standard time; standard weights and measures; a standard authority as to nautical terms; standard gold or silver. 2. Hence: Having a recognized and permanent value; as, standard works in history; standard authors. 3. (Hort.) (a) Not supported by, or fastened to, a wall; as, standard fruit trees. (b) Not of the dwarf kind; as, a standard pear tree. Standard candle, Standard gauge. See under Candle, and Gauge. -- Standard solution. (Chem.) See Standardized solution, under Solution. STANDARD-BRED Stand"ard-bred`, a. Defn: Bred in conformity to a standard. Specif., applied to a registered trotting horse which comes up to the standard adopted by the National Association of Trotting-horse Breeders. [U. S.] STANDARDIZE Stand"ard*ize, v. t. (Chem.) Defn: To reduce to a normal standard; to calculate or adjust the strength of, by means of, and for uses in, analysis. STANDARD-WING Stand"ard-wing`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: A curious paradise bird (Semioptera Wallacii) which has two long special feathers standing erect on each wing. STAND-BY Stand"-by`, n. Defn: One who, or that which, stands by one in need; something upon which one relies for constant use or in an emergency. STANDEL Stand"el, n. Defn: A young tree, especially one reserved when others are cut. [Obs.] Fuller. STANDER Stand"er, n. 1. One who stands. 2. Same as Standel. [Obs.] Ascham. STANDERATH; STANDERAT Stän"de*rath`, or Stän"de*rat`, n. [G.] (Switzerland) Defn: See Legislature, above. STANDER-BY Stand"er-by`, n. Defn: One who stands near; one who is present; a bystander. STANDERGRASS Stand"er*grass`, n. (Bot.) Defn: A plant (Orchis mascula); -- called also standerwort, and long purple. See Long purple, under Long. STANDGALE Stand"gale`, n. Defn: See Stannel. [Prov. Eng.] STANDING Stand"ing, a. 1. Remaining erect; not cut down; as, standing corn. 2. Not flowing; stagnant; as, standing water. 3. Not transitory; not liable to fade or vanish; lasting; as, a standing color. 4. Established by law, custom, or the like; settled; continually existing; permanent; not temporary; as, a standing army; legislative bodies have standing rules of proceeding and standing committees. 5. Not movable; fixed; as, a standing bed (distinguished from a trundle-bed). Standing army. See Standing army, under Army. -- Standing bolt. See Stud bolt, under Stud, a stem. -- Standing committee, in legislative bodies, etc., a committee appointed for the consideration of all subjects of a particular class which shall arise during the session or a stated period. -- Standing cup, a tall goblet, with a foot and a cover. -- Standing finish (Arch.), that part of the interior fittings, esp. of a dwelling house, which is permanent and fixed in its place, as distinguished from doors, sashes, etc. -- Standing order (Eccl.), the denomination (Congregiational) established by law; -- a term formerly used in Connecticut. See also under Order. -- Standing part. (Naut.) (a) That part of a tackle which is made fast to a block, point, or other object. (b) That part of a rope around which turns are taken with the running part in making a knot of the like. -- Standing rigging (Naut.), the cordage or rope which sustain the masts and remain fixed in their