[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

orders, or to take holy orders, that is, to enter some grade of the ministry. 11. (Arch.) Defn: The disposition of a column and its component parts, and of the entablature resting upon it, in classical architecture; hence (as the column and entablature are the characteristic features of classical architecture) a style or manner of architectural designing. Note: The Greeks used three different orders, easy to distinguish, Doric, Ionic, and Corinthian. The Romans added the Tuscan, and changed the Doric so that it is hardly recognizable, and also used a modified Corinthian called Composite. The Renaissance writers on architecture recognized five orders as orthodox or classical, -- Doric (the Roman sort), Ionic, Tuscan, Corinthian, and Composite. See Illust. of Capital. 12. (Nat. Hist.) Defn: An assemblage of genera having certain important characters in common; as, the Carnivora and Insectivora are orders of Mammalia. Note: The Linnæan artificial orders of plants rested mainly on identity in the numer of pistils, or agreement in some one character. Natural orders are groups of genera agreeing in the fundamental plan of their flowers and fruit. A natural order is usually (in botany) equivalent to a family, and may include several tribes. 13. (Rhet.) Defn: The placing of words and members in a sentence in such a manner as to contribute to force and beauty or clearness of expression. 14. (Math.) Defn: Rank; degree; thus, the order of a curve or surface is the same as the degree of its equation. Artificial order or system. See Artificial classification, under Artificial, and Note to def. 12 above. -- Close order (Mil.), the arrangement of the ranks with a distance of about half a pace between them; with a distance of about three yards the ranks are in Ant: open order. -- The four Orders, The Orders four, the four orders of mendicant friars. See Friar. Chaucer. -- General orders (Mil.), orders issued which concern the whole command, or the troops generally, in distinction from special orders. -- Holy orders. (a) (Eccl.) The different grades of the Christian ministry; ordination to the ministry. See def. 10 above. (b) (R. C. Ch.) A sacrament for the purpose of conferring a special grace on those ordained. -- In order to, for the purpose of; to the end; as means to. The best knowledge is that which is of greatest use in order to our eternal happiness. Tillotson. -- Minor orders (R. C. Ch.), orders beneath the diaconate in sacramental dignity, as acolyte, exorcist, reader, doorkeeper. -- Money order. See under Money. -- Natural order. (Bot.) See def. 12, Note. -- Order book. (a) A merchant's book in which orders are entered. (b) (Mil.) A book kept at headquarters, in which all orders are recorded for the information of officers and men. (c) A book in the House of Commons in which proposed orders must be entered. [Eng.] -- Order in Council, a royal order issed with and by the advice of the Privy Council. [Great Britain] -- Order of battle (Mil.), the particular disposition given to the troops of an army on the field of battle. -- Order of the day, in legislative bodies, the special business appointed for a specified day. -- Order of a differential equation (Math.), the greatest index of differentiation in the equation. -- Sailing orders (Naut.), the final instructions given to the commander of a ship of war before a cruise. -- Sealed orders, orders sealed, and not to be opended until a certain time, or arrival at a certain place, as after a ship is at sea. -- Standing order. (a) A continuing regulation for the conduct of parliamentary business. (b) (Mil.) An order not subject to change by an officer temporarily in command. -- To give order, to give command or directions. Shak. -- To take order for, to take charge of; to make arrangements concerning. Whiles I take order for mine own affairs. Shak. Syn. -- Arrangement; management. See Direction. ORDER Or"der, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Ordered; p pr. & vb. n. Ordering.] Etym: [From Order, n.] 1. To put in order; to reduce to a methodical arrangement; to arrange in a series, or with reference to an end. Hence, to regulate; to dispose; to direct; to rule. To him that ordereth his conversation aright. Ps. 1. 23. Warriors old with ordered spear and shield. Milton. 2. To give an order to; to command; as, to order troops to advance. 3. To give an order for; to secure by an order; as, to order a carriage; to order groceries. 4. (Eccl.) Defn: To admit to holy orders; to ordain; to receive into the ranks of the ministry. These ordered folk be especially titled to God. Chaucer. Persons presented to be ordered deacons. Bk. of Com. Prayer. Order arms (Mil.), the command at which a rifle is brought to a position with its but resting on the ground; also, the position taken at such a command. ORDER Or"der, v. i. Defn: To give orders; to issue commands. ORDERABLE Or"der*a*ble, a. Defn: Capable of being ordered; tractable. [R.] Being very orderable in all his sickness. Fuller. ORDERER Or"der*er, n. 1. One who puts in order, arranges, methodizes, or regulates. 2. One who gives orders. ORDERING Or"der*ing, n. Defn: Disposition; distribution; management. South. ORDERLESS Or"der*less, a. Defn: Being without order or regularity; disorderly; out of rule. ORDERLINESS Or"der*li*ness, n. Defn: The state or quality of being orderly. ORDERLY Or"der*ly, a. 1. Conformed to order; in order; regular; as, an orderly course or plan. Milton. 2. Observant of order, authority, or rule; hence, obedient; quiet; peaceable; not unruly; as, orderly children; an orderly community. 3. Performed in good or established order; well-regulated. "An orderly . . . march." Clarendon. 4. Being on duty; keeping order; conveying orders. "Aids-de-camp and orderly men." Sir W. Scott. Orderly book (Mil.), a book for every company, in which the general and regimental orders are recorded. -- Orderly officer, the officer of the day, or that officer of a corps or regiment whose turn it is to supervise for the day the arrangements for food, cleanliness, etc. Farrow. -- Orderly room. (a) The court of the commanding officer, where charges against the men of the regiment are tried. (b) The office of the commanding officer, usually in the barracks, whence orders emanate. Farrow. -- Orderly sergeant, the first sergeant of a company. ORDERLY Or"der*ly, adv. Defn: According to due order; regularly; methodically; duly. You are blunt; go to it orderly. Shak. ORDERLY Or"der*ly, n.; pl. Orderlies (. 1. (Mil.) Defn: A noncommissioned officer or soldier who attends a superior officer to carry his orders, or to render other service. Orderlies were appointed to watch the palace. Macaulay. 2. A street sweeper. [Eng.] Mayhew. ORDINABILITY Or`di*na*bil"i*ty, n. Defn: Capability of being ordained or appointed. [Obs.] Bp. Bull. ORDINABLE Or"di*na*ble, a. Etym: [See Ordinate, Ordain.] Defn: Capable of being ordained or appointed. [Obs.] ORDINAL Or"di*nal, a. Etym: [L. ordinalis, fr. ordo, ordinis, order. See Order.] 1. Indicating order or succession; as, the ordinal numbers, first, second, third, etc. 2. Of or pertaining to an order. ORDINAL Or"di*nal, n. 1. A word or number denoting order or succession. 2. (Ch. of Eng.) Defn: The book of forms for making, ordaining, and consecrating bishops, priests, and deacons. 3. (R. C. Ch.) Defn: A book containing the rubrics of the Mass. [Written also ordinale.] ORDINALISM Or"di*nal*ism, n. Defn: The state or quality of being ordinal. [R.] Latham. ORDINANCE Or"di*nance, n. Etym: [OE. ordenance, OF. ordenance, F. ordonnance. See Ordain, and cf. Ordnance, Ordonnance.] 1. Orderly arrangement; preparation; provision. [Obs.] Spenser. They had made their ordinance Of victual, and of other purveyance. Chaucer. 2. A rule established by authority; a permanent rule of action; a statute, law, regulation, rescript, or accepted usage; an edict or decree; esp., a local law enacted by a municipal government; as, a municipal ordinance. Thou wilt die by God's just ordinance. Shak. By custom and the ordinance of times. Shak. Walking in all the commandments and ordinances of the Lord blameless. Luke i. 6. Note: Acts of Parliament are sometimes called ordinances; also, certain colonial laws and certain acts of Congress under Confederation; as, the ordinance of 1787 for the government of the territory of the United States northwest of the Ohio River; the colonial ordinance of 1641, or 1647. This word is often used in Scripture in the sense of a law or statute of sovereign power. Ex. xv. 25. Num. x. 8. Ezra iii. 10. Its most frequent application now in the United States is to laws and regulations of municipal corporations. Wharton (Law Dict.). 3. (Eccl.) Defn: An established rite or ceremony. 4. Rank; order; station. [Obs.] Shak. 5. Etym: [See Ordnance.] Defn: Ordnance; cannon. [Obs.] Shak. ORDINAND Or"di*nand`, n. Etym: [L. ordinandus, gerundive of ordinare. See Ordain.] Defn: One about to be ordained. ORDINANT Or"di*nant, a. Etym: [L. ordinans, p. pr. of ordinare. See Ordain.] Defn: Ordaining; decreeing. [Obs.] Shak. ORDINANT Or"di*nant, n. Defn: One