[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

WALER Wal"er, n. [From Wales, i.e., New South Wales.] Defn: A horse imported from New South Wales; also, any Australian horse. [Colloq.] Kipling. The term originated in India, whither many horses are exported from Australia (mostly from New South Wales), especially for the use of cavalry. WALHALLA Wal*hal"la, n. Etym: [Cf. G. walhalla, See Valhalla.] Defn: See Valhalla. WALING Wal"ing, n. (Naut.) Defn: Same as Wale, n., 4. WALK Walk (wask), v. i. [imp. & p. p. Walked; p. pr. & vb. n. Walking.] Etym: [OE. walken, probably from AS. wealcan to roll, turn, revolve, akin to D. walken to felt hats, to work a hat, G. walken to full, OHG. walchan to beat, to full, Icel. valka to roll, to stamp, Sw. valka to full, to roll, Dan. valke to full; cf. Skr. valg to spring; but cf. also AS. weallian to roam, ramble, G. wallen. sq. root130.] 1. To move along on foot; to advance by steps; to go on at a moderate pace; specifically, of two-legged creatures, to proceed at a slower or faster rate, but without running, or lifting one foot entirely before the other touches the ground. At the end of twelve months, he walked in the palace of the kingdom of Babylon. Dan. iv. 29. When Peter was come down out of the ship, he walked on the water, to go to Jesus. Matt. xiv. 29. Note: In the walk of quadrupeds, there are always two, and for a brief space there are three, feet on the ground at once, but never four. 2. To move or go on the feet for exercise or amusement; to take one's exercise; to ramble. 3. To be stirring; to be abroad; to go restlessly about; -- said of things or persons expected to remain quiet, as a sleeping person, or the spirit of a dead person; to go about as a somnambulist or a specter. I have heard, but not believed, the spirits of the dead May walk again. Shak. When was it she last walked Shak. 4. To be in motion; to act; to move; to wag. [Obs.] "Her tongue did walk in foul reproach." Spenser. Do you think I'd walk in any plot B. Jonson. I heard a pen walking in the chimney behind the cloth. Latimer. 5. To behave; to pursue a course of life; to conduct one's self. We walk perversely with God, and he will walk crookedly toward us. Jer. Taylor. 6. To move off; to depart. [Obs. or Colloq.] He will make their cows and garrans to walk. Spenser. To walk in, to go in; to enter, as into a house. -- To walk after the flesh (Script.), to indulge sensual appetites, and to live in sin. Rom. viii. 1. -- To walk after the Spirit (Script.), to be guided by the counsels and influences of the Spirit, and by the word of God. Rom. viii. 1. -- To walk by faith (Script.), to live in the firm belief of the gospel and its promises, and to rely on Christ for salvation. 2 Cor. v. 7. -- To walk in darkness (Script.), to live in ignorance, error, and sin. 1 John i. 6. -- To walk in the flesh (Script.), to live this natural life, which is subject to infirmities and calamities. 2 Cor. x. 3. -- To walk in the light (Script.), to live in the practice of religion, and to enjoy its consolations. 1 John i. 7. -- To walk over, in racing, to go over a course at a walk; -- said of a horse when there is no other entry; hence, colloquially, to gain an easy victory in any contest. -- To walk through the fire (Script.), to be exercised with severe afflictions. Isa. xliii. 2. -- To walk with God (Script.), to live in obedience to his commands, and have communion with him. WALK Walk, v. t. 1. To pass through, over, or upon; to traverse; to perambulate; as, to walk the streets. As we walk our earthly round. Keble. 2. To cause to walk; to lead, drive, or ride with a slow pace; as to walk one's horses. " I will rather trust . . . a thief to walk my ambling gelding." Shak. 3. Etym: [AS. wealcan to roll. See Walk to move on foot.] Defn: To subject, as cloth or yarn, to the fulling process; to full. [Obs. or Scot.] To walk the plank, to walk off the plank into the water and be drowned; -- an expression derived from the practice of pirates who extended a plank from the side of a ship, and compelled those whom they would drown to walk off into the water; figuratively, to vacate an office by compulsion. Bartlett. WALK Walk, n. 1. The act of walking, or moving on the feet with a slow pace; advance without running or leaping. 2. The act of walking for recreation or exercise; as, a morning walk; an evening walk. 3. Manner of walking; gait; step; as, we often know a person at a distance by his walk. 4. That in or through which one walks; place or distance walked over; a place for walking; a path or avenue prepared for foot passengers, or for taking air and exercise; way; road; hence, a place or region in which animals may graze; place of wandering; range; as, a sheep walk. A woody mountain . . . with goodliest trees Planted, with walks and bowers. Milton. He had walk for a hundred sheep. Latimer. Amid the sound of steps that beat The murmuring walks like rain. Bryant. 5. A frequented track; habitual place of action; sphere; as, the walk of the historian. The mountains are his walks. Sandys. He opened a boundless walk for his imagination. Pope. 6. Conduct; course of action; behavior. 7. The route or district regularly served by a vender; as, a milkman's walk. [Eng.] WALKABLE Walk"a*ble, a. Defn: Fit to be walked on; capable of being walked on or over. [R.] Swift. WALKER Walk"er, n. 1. One who walks; a pedestrian. 2. That with which one walks; a foot. [Obs.] Lame Mulciber, his walkers quite misgrown. Chapman. 3. (Law) Defn: A forest officer appointed to walk over a certain space for inspection; a forester. 4. Etym: [AS. wealcere. See Walk, v. t., 3.] Defn: A fuller of cloth. [Obs. or Prov. Eng. & Scot.] She cursed the weaver and the walker The cloth that had wrought. Percy's Reliques. 5. (Zoöl.) Defn: Any ambulatorial orthopterous insect, as a stick insect. WALKING Walk"ing, Defn: a. & n. from Walk, v. Walking beam. See Beam, 10. -- Walking crane, a kind of traveling crane. See under Crane. -- Walking fern. (Bot.) See Walking leaf, below. -- Walking fish (Zoöl.), any one of numerous species of Asiatic fishes of the genus Ophiocephalus, some of which, as O. marulius, become over four feet long. They have a special cavity over the gills lined with a membrane adapted to retain moisture to aid in respiration, and are thus able to travel considerable distances over the land at night, whence the name. They construct a curious nest for their young. Called also langya. -- Walking gentleman (Theater), an actor who usually fills subordinate parts which require a gentlemanly appearance but few words. [Cant] -- Walking lady (Theater), an actress who usually fills such parts as require only a ladylike appearance on the stage. [Cant] -- Walking leaf. (a) (Bot.) A little American fern (Camptosorus rhizophyllus); -- so called because the fronds taper into slender prolongations which often root at the apex, thus producing new plants. (b) (Zoöl.) A leaf insect. See under Leaf. -- Walking papers, or Walking ticket, an order to leave; dismissal, as from office. [Colloq.] Bartlett. -- Walking stick. (a) A stick or staff carried in the hand for hand for support or amusement when walking; a cane. (b) (Zoöl.) A stick insect; -- called also walking straw. See Illust. of Stick insect, under Stick. -- Walking wheel (Mach.), a prime mover consisting of a wheel driven by the weight of men or animals walking either in it or on it; a treadwheel. WALK-MILL Walk"-mill`, n. Etym: [Walk to Walking Leaf, or full + mill.] Defn: A fulling mill. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. WALK-OVER Walk"-o`ver, n. Defn: In racing, the going over a course by a horse which has no competitor for the prize; hence, colloquially, a one-sided contest; an uncontested, or an easy, victory. WALKYR Wal"kyr, n. (Scand. Myth.) Defn: See Valkyria. WALL Wall, n. (Naut.) Defn: A kind of knot often used at the end of a rope; a wall knot; a wale. Wall knot, a knot made by unlaying the strands of a rope, and making a bight with the first strand, then passing the second over the end of the first, and the third over the end of the second and through the bight of the first; a wale knot. Wall knots may be single or double, crowned or