[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

attic. The tottering garrets which overhung the streets of Rome. Macaulay. GARRETED Gar"ret*ed, a. Defn: Protected by turrets. [Obs.] R. Carew. GARRETEER Gar`ret*eer", n. Defn: One who lives in a garret; a poor author; a literary hack. Macaulay. GARRETING Gar"ret*ing, n. Defn: Small splinters of stone inserted into the joints of coarse masonry. Weale. GARRISON Gar"ri*son, n. Etym: [OE. garnisoun, F. garnison garrison, in OF. & OE. also, provision, munitions, from garnir to garnish. See Garnish.] (Mil.) (a) A body of troops stationed in a fort or fortified town. (b) A fortified place, in which troops are quartered for its security. In garrison, in the condition of a garrison; doing duty in a fort or as one of a garrison. GARRISON Gar"ri*son, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Garrisoned; p. pr. & vb. n. Garrisoning.] (Mil.) (a) To place troops in, as a fortification, for its defense; to furnish with soldiers; as, to garrison a fort or town. (b) To secure or defend by fortresses manned with troops; as, to garrison a conquered territory. GARRON Gar"ron, n. Defn: Same as Garran. [Scot.] GARROT Gar"rot, n. Etym: [F. Cf. Garrote.] (Surg.) Defn: A stick or small wooden cylinder used for tightening a bandage, in order to compress the arteries of a limb. GARROT Gar"rot, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: The European golden-eye. GARROTE Gar*rote", n. Etym: [Sp. garrote, from garra claw, talon, of Celtic origin; cf. Armor. & W. gar leg, ham, shank. Cf. Garrot stick, Garter.] Defn: A Spanish mode of execution by strangulation, with an iron collar affixed to a post and tightened by a screw until life become extinct; also, the instrument by means of which the punishment is inflicted. GARROTE Gar*rote", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Garroted; p. pr. & vb. n. Garroting.] Defn: To strangle with the garrote; hence, to seize by the throat, from behind, with a view to strangle and rob. GARROTER Gar*rot"er, n. Defn: One who seizes a person by the throat from behind, with a view to strangle and rob him. GARRULITY Gar*ru"li*ty, n. Etym: [L. garrulitas: cf. F. garrulité.] Defn: Talkativeness; loquacity. GARRULOUS Gar"ru*lous, a. Etym: [L. garrulus, fr. garrire to chatter, talk; cf. Gr. Call.] 1. Talking much, especially about commonplace or trivial things; talkative; loquacious. The most garrulous people on earth. De Quincey. 2. (Zoöl.) Defn: Having a loud, harsh note; noisy; -- said of birds; as, the garrulous roller. Syn. -- Garrulous, Talkative, Loquacious. A garrulous person indulges in long, prosy talk, with frequent repetitions and lengthened details; talkative implies simply a great desire to talk; and loquacious a great flow of words at command. A child is talkative; a lively woman is loquacious; an old man in his dotage is garrulous. -- Gar"ru*lous*ly, adv. -- Gar"ru*lous*ness, n. GARRUPA Gar*ru"pa, n. Etym: [Prob. fr. Pg. garupa crupper. Cf. Grouper the fish.] (Zoöl.) Defn: One of several species of California market fishes, of the genus Sebastichthys; -- called also rockfish. See Rockfish. GARTER Gar"ter, n. Etym: [OE. gartier, F. jarretière, fr. OF. garet bend of the knee, F. jarret; akin to Sp. garra claw, Prov. garra leg. See Garrote.] 1. A band used to prevent a stocking from slipping down on the leg. 2. The distinguishing badge of the highest order of knighthood in Great Britain, called the Order of the Garter, instituted by Edward III.; also, the Order itself. 3. (Her.) Defn: Same as Bendlet. Garter fish (Zoöl.), a fish of the genus Lepidopus, having a long, flat body, like the blade of a sword; the scabbard fish. -- Garter king-at-arms, the chief of the official heralds of England, king-at-arms to the Order of the Garter; -- often abbreviated to Garter. -- Garter snake (Zoöl.), one of several harmless American snakes of the genus Eutænia, of several species (esp. E. saurita and E. sirtalis); one of the striped snakes; -- so called from its conspicuous stripes of color. GARTER Gar"ter, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Gartered; p. pr. & vb. n. Gartering.] 1. To bind with a garter. He . . . could not see to garter his hose. Shak. 2. To invest with the Order of the Garter. T. Warton. GARTER STITCH Garter stitch. Defn: The simplest stitch in knitting. GARTH Garth, n. Etym: [Icel. gar yard. See Yard.] 1. A close; a yard; a croft; a garden; as, a cloister garth. A clapper clapping in a garth To scare the fowl from fruit. Tennyson. 2. A dam or weir for catching fish. GARTH Garth, n. Etym: [Girth.] Defn: A hoop or band. [Prov. Eng.] GARUM Ga"rum, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. Defn: A sauce made of small fish. It was prized by the ancients. GARVIE Gar"vie, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: The spart; -- called also garvie herring, and garvock. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] GAS Gas, n.; pl. Gases. Etym: [Invented by the chemist Van Helmont of Brussels, who died in 1644.] 1. An aëriform fluid; -- a term used at first by chemists as synonymous with air, but since restricted to fluids supposed to be permanently elastic, as oxygen, hydrogen, etc., in distinction from vapors, as steam, which become liquid on a reduction of temperature. In present usage, since all of the supposed permanent gases have been liquified by cold and pressure, the term has resumed nearly its original signification, and is applied to any substance in the elastic or aëriform state. 2. (Popular Usage) (a) A complex mixture of gases, of which the most important constituents are marsh gas, olefiant gas, and hydrogen, artificially produced by the destructive distillation of gas coal, or sometimes of peat, wood, oil, resin, etc. It gives a brilliant light when burned, and is the common gas used for illuminating purposes. (b) Laughing gas. (c) Any irrespirable aëriform fluid. Note: Gas is often used adjectively or in combination; as, gas fitter or gasfitter; gas meter or gas-meter, etc. Air gas (Chem.), a kind of gas made by forcing air through some volatile hydrocarbon, as the lighter petroleums. The air is so saturated with combustible vapor as to be a convenient illuminating and heating agent. -- Gas battery (Elec.), a form of voltaic battery, in which gases, especially hydrogen and oxygen, are the active agents. -- Gas carbon, Gas coke, etc. See under Carbon, Coke, etc. -- Gas coal, a bituminous or hydrogenous coal yielding a high percentage of volatile matters, and therefore available for the manufacture of illuminating gas. R. W. Raymond. -- Gas engine, an engine in which the motion of the piston is produced by the combustion or sudden production or expansion of gas; -- especially, an engine in which an explosive mixture of gas and air is forced into the working cylinder and ignited there by a gas flame or an electric spark. -- Gas fitter, one who lays pipes and puts up fixtures for gas. -- Gas fitting. (a) The occupation of a gas fitter. (b) pl. The appliances needed for the introduction of gas into a building, as meters, pipes, burners, etc. -- Gas fixture, a device for conveying illuminating or combustible gas from the pipe to the gas-burner, consisting of an appendage of cast, wrought, or drawn metal, with tubes upon which the burners, keys, etc., are adjusted. -- Gas generator, an apparatus in which gas is evolved; as: (a) a retort in which volatile hydrocarbons are evolved by heat; (b) a machine in which air is saturated with the vapor of liquid hydrocarbon; a carburetor; (c) a machine for the production of carbonic acid gas, for aërating water, bread, etc. Knight. -- Gas jet, a flame of illuminating gas. -- Gas machine, an apparatus for carbureting air for use as illuminating gas. -- Gas meter, an instrument for recording the quantity of gas consumed in a given time, at a particular place. -- Gas retort, a retort which contains the coal and other materials, and in which the gas is generated, in the manufacture of gas. -- Gas stove, a stove for cooking or other purposes, heated by gas. -- Gas tar, coal tar. -- Gas trap, a drain trap; a sewer trap. See 4th Trap, 5. -- Gas washer (Gas Works), an apparatus within which gas from the condenser is brought in contact with a falling stream of water, to precipitate the tar remaining in it. Knight. -- Gas water, water through which gas has been passed for purification; -- called also gas liquor and ammoniacal water, and used for the manufacture of sal ammoniac, carbonate of ammonia, and Prussian blue. Tomlinson. -- Gas well, a deep boring, from which natural gas is discharged. Raymond. -- Gas works, a manufactory of gas, with all the machinery and appurtenances; a place where gas is generated for lighting cities. -- Laughing gas. See under Laughing. -- Marsh gas (Chem.), a light, combustible, gaseous hydrocarbon, CH4, produced artificially by the dry distillation of many organic substances, and occurring as a natural product of decomposition in stagnant pools, whence its name. It is an abundant ingredient of