[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

swimmer. It has a white ring around the rump. Called also photomok, water antelope, and waterbok. Note: The name is also applied to other related species, as the leche (Kobus leche), which has similar habits. WATER BUFFALO Wa"ter buf"fa*lo. (Zoöl.) Defn: The European buffalo. WATER BUG Wa"ter bug`. (Zoöl.) (a) The Croton bug. (b) Any one of numerous species of large, rapacious, aquatic, hemipterous insects belonging to Belostoma, Benacus, Zaitha, and other genera of the family Belostomatidæ. Their hind legs are long and fringed, and act like oars. Some of these insects are of great size, being among the largest existing Hemiptera. Many of them come out of the water and fly about at night. WATER BUTT Wa"ter butt`. Defn: A large, open-headed cask, set up on end, to contain water. Dickens. WATER CALTROP Wa"ter cal"trop. (Bot.) Defn: The water chestnut. WATER CAN Wa"ter can`. (Bot.) Defn: Any one of several species of Nuphar; the yellow frog lily; -- so called from the shape of the seed vessel. See Nuphar, and cf. Candock. Dr. Prior. WATER CANKER Wa"ter can"ker. (Med.) Defn: See Canker, n., 1. WATER CARRIAGE Wa"ter car"riage. 1. Transportation or conveyance by water; means of transporting by water. 2. A vessel or boat. [Obs.] Arbuthnot. WATER CART Wa"ter cart`. Defn: A cart carrying water; esp., one carrying water for sale, or for sprinkling streets, gardens, etc. WATER CAVY Wa"ter ca"vy. (Zoöl.) Defn: The capybara. WATER CELERY Wa"ter cel"er*y. (Bot.) Defn: A very acrid herb (Ranunculus sceleratus) growing in ditches and wet places; -- called also cursed crowfoot. WATER CELL Wa"ter cell`. Defn: A cell containing water; specifically (Zoöl.), one of the cells or chambers in which water is stored up in the stomach of a camel. WATER CEMENT Wa"ter ce*ment". Defn: Hydraulic cement. WATER CHESTNUT Wa"ter chest"nut. (Bot.) Defn: The fruit of Trapa natans and Trapa bicornis, Old World water plants bearing edible nutlike fruits armed with several hard and sharp points; also, the plant itself; -- called also water caltrop. WATER CHEVROTAIN Wa"ter chev`ro*tain". (Zoöl.) Defn: A large West African chevrotain (Hyæmoschus aquaticus). It has a larger body and shorter legs than the other allied species. Called also water deerlet. WATER CHICKEN Wa"ter chick"en. (Zoöl.) Defn: The common American gallinule. WATER CHICKWEED Wa"ter chick"weed`. (Bot.) Defn: A small annual plant (Montia fontana) growing in wet places in southern regions. WATER CHINQUAPIN Wa"ter chin"qua*pin. (Bot.) Defn: The American lotus, and its edible seeds, which somewhat resemble chinquapins. Cf. Yoncopin. WATER CLOCK Wa"ter clock`. Defn: An instrument or machine serving to measure time by the fall, or flow, of a certain quantity of water; a clepsydra. WATER-CLOSET Wa"ter-clos`et, n. Defn: A privy; especially, a privy furnished with a contrivance for introducing a stream of water to cleanse it. WATER COCK Wa"ter cock`. (Zoöl.) Defn: A large gallinule (Gallicrex cristatus) native of Australia, India, and the East Indies. In the breeding season the male is black and has a fleshy red caruncle, or horn, on the top of its head. Called also kora. WATER COLOR Wa"ter col`or. (Paint.) 1. A color ground with water and gum or other glutinous medium; a color the vehicle of which is water; -- so called in distinction from oil color. Note: It preserves its consistency when dried in a solid cake, which is used by rubbing off a portion on a moistened palette. Moist water colors are water colors kept in a semifluid or pasty state in little metal tubes or pans. 2. A picture painted with such colors. WATER-COLORIST Wa"ter-col`or*ist, n. Defn: One who paints in water colors. WATER COURSE Wa"ter course`. 1. A stream of water; a river or brook. Isa. xliv. 4. 2. A natural channel for water; also, a canal for the conveyance of water, especially in draining lands. 3. (Law) Defn: A running stream of water having a bed and banks; the easement one may have in the flowing of such a stream in its accustomed course. A water course may be sometimes dry. Angell. Burrill. WATERCOURSE Wa"ter*course`, n. (Shipbuilding) Defn: One of the holes in floor or other plates to permit water to flow through. WATER CRAFT Wa"ter craft`. Defn: Any vessel or boat plying on water; vessels and boats, collectively. WATER CRAKE Wa"ter crake`. (Zoöl.) (a) The dipper. (b) The spotted crake (Porzana maruetta). See Illust. of Crake. (c) The swamp hen, or crake, of Australia. WATER CRANE Wa"ter crane`. Defn: A goose-neck apparatus for supplying water from an elevated tank, as to the tender of a locomotive. WATER CRESS Wa"ter cress`. (Bot.) Defn: A perennial cruciferous herb (Nasturtium officinale) growing usually in clear running or spring water. The leaves are pungent, and used for salad and as an antiscorbutic. WATER CROW Wa"ter crow`. Etym: [So called in allusion to its dark plumage.] (Zoöl.) (a) The dipper. (b) The European coot. WATER CROWFOOT Wa"ter crow"foot`. (Bot.) Defn: An aquatic kind of buttercup (Ranunculus aquatilis), used as food for cattle in parts of England. Great water crowfoot, an American water plant (Ranunculus multifidus), having deep yellow flowers. WATER CURE Wa"ter cure`. 1. (Med.) Defn: Hydropathy. 2. A hydropathic institution. WATER DECK Wa"ter deck`. Defn: A covering of painting canvas for the equipments of a dragoon's horse. Wilhelm. WATER DEER Wa"ter deer`. (Zoöl.) (a) A small Chinese deer (Hydropotes inermis). Both sexes are destitute of antlers, but the male has large, descending canine tusks. (b) The water chevrotain. WATER DEERLET Wa"ter deer"let. Defn: See Water chevrotain. WATER DEVIL Wa"ter dev"il. (Zoöl.) Defn: The rapacious larva of a large water beetle (Hydrophilus piceus), and of other similar species. See Illust. of Water beetle. WATER DOCK Wa"ter dock`. (Bot.) Defn: A tall, coarse dock growing in wet places. The American water dock is Rumex orbiculatus, the European is R. Hydrolapathum. WATER DOCTOR Wa"ter doc"tor. (Med.) (a) One who professes to be able to divine diseases by inspection of the urine. (b) A physician who treats diseases with water; an hydropathist. WATER DOG Wa"ter dog`. 1. (Zoöl.) Defn: A dog accustomed to the water, or trained to retrieve waterfowl. Retrievers, waters spaniels, and Newfoundland dogs are so trained. 2. (Zoöl.) Defn: The menobranchus. 3. A small floating cloud, supposed to indicate rain. 4. A sailor, esp. an old sailor; an old salt. [Colloq.] WATER DRAIN Wa"ter drain`. Defn: A drain or channel for draining off water. WATER DRAINAGE Wa"ter drain"age (; 48). Defn: The draining off of water. WATER DRESSING Wa"ter dress"ing. (Med.) Defn: The treatment of wounds or ulcers by the application of water; also, a dressing saturated with water only, for application to a wound or an ulcer. WATER DROPWORT Wa"ter drop"wort`. (Bot.) Defn: A European poisonous umbelliferous plant (Enanthe fistulosa) with large hollow stems and finely divided leaves. WATER EAGLE Wa"ter ea"gle. (Zoöl.) Defn: The osprey. WATER ELDER Wa"ter el"der. (Bot.) Defn: The guelder-rose. WATER ELEPHANT Wa"ter el"e*phant. (Zoöl.) Defn: The hippopotamus. [R.] WATER ENGINE Wa"ter en"gine. Defn: An engine to raise water; or an engine moved by water; also, an engine or machine for extinguishing fires; a fire engine. WATERER Wa"ter*er, n. Defn: One who, or that which, waters. WATERFALL Wa"ter*fall`, n. 1. A fall, or perpendicular descent, of the water of a river or stream, or a descent nearly perpendicular; a cascade; a cataract. 2. (Hairdressing) Defn: An arrangement of a woman's back hair over a cushion or frame in some resemblance to a waterfall. 3. A certain kind of neck scarf. T. Hughes. WATER FEATHER; WATER FEATHER-FOIL Wa"ter feath"er or Wa"ter feath"er-foil`. (Bot.) Defn: The water violet (Hottonia palustris); also, the less showy American plant H. inflata. WATER FLAG Wa"ter flag`. (Bot.) Defn: A European species of Iris (Iris Pseudacorus) having bright yellow flowers. WATER FLANNEL Wa"ter flan"nel. (Bot.) Defn: A floating mass formed in pools by the entangled filaments of a European fresh-water alga (Cladophora crispata). WATER FLEA Wa"ter flea`. (Zoöl.) Defn: Any one of numerous species of small aquatic Entomostraca belonging to the genera Cyclops, Daphnia, etc; -- so called because they swim with sudden leaps, or starts. WATERFLOOD Wa"ter*flood`, n. Etym: [AS. wæterflod.] Defn: A flood of water; an inundation. WATER FLOUNDER Wa"ter floun"der. (Zoöl.) Defn: The windowpane (Pleuronectes maculatus). [Local, U. S.] WATERFOWL Wa"ter*fowl`, n. Defn: Any bird that frequents the water, or lives about rivers, lakes, etc., or on or near the sea; an aquatic fowl; -- used also collectively. Note: Of aquatic fowls, some are waders, or furnished with long legs; others are swimmers, or furnished with webbed feet. WATER FOX Wa"ter fox`. (Zoöl.) Defn: The carp; -- so called on account of its cunning. Walton. WATER FRAME Wa"ter frame`. Defn: A name given to the first power spinning machine, because driven by water power. WATER FURROW Wa"ter fur"row. (Agric.) Defn: A deep furrow for conducting water from the ground, and keeping the surface soil dry. WATER-FURROW Wa"ter-fur"row, v. t. Defn: To make water furrows in. WATER GAGE Wa"ter gage`. Defn: See Water gauge. WATER GALL Wa"ter gall`. 1. A cavity made in the earth by a torrent of water;