[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

only species known. Its origin is not yet ascertained. See Maize. ZEAL Zeal, n. Etym: [F. zèle; cf. Pg. & It. zelo, Sp. zelo, celo; from L. zelus, Gr. Yeast, Jealous.] 1. Passionate ardor in the pursuit of anything; eagerness in favor of a person or cause; ardent and active interest; engagedness; enthusiasm; fervor. "Ambition varnished o'er with zeal." Milton. "Zeal, the blind conductor of the will." Dryden. "Zeal's never-dying fire." Keble. I bear them record that they have a zeal of God, but not according to knowledge. Rom. x. 2. A zeal for liberty is sometimes an eagerness to subvert with little care what shall be established. Johnson. 2. A zealot. [Obs.] B. Jonson. ZEAL Zeal, v. i. Defn: To be zealous. [Obs. & R.] Bacon. ZEALANT Zeal"ant, n. Defn: One who is zealous; a zealot; an enthusiast. [Obs.] To certain zealants, all speech of pacification is odious. Bacon. ZEALED Zealed, a. Defn: Full of zeal; characterized by zeal. [Obs.] "Zealed religion." Beau. & Fl. ZEALFUL Zeal"ful, a. Defn: Full of zeal. [R.] Sylvester. ZEALLESS Zeal"less, a. Defn: Wanting zeal. Hammond. ZEALOT Zeal"ot, n. Etym: [F. zélote, L. zelotes, Gr. Zeal.] Defn: One who is zealous; one who engages warmly in any cause, and pursues his object with earnestness and ardor; especially, one who is overzealous, or carried away by his zeal; one absorbed in devotion to anything; an enthusiast; a fanatical partisan. Zealots for the one [tradition] were in hostile array against zealots for the other. Sir J. Stephen. In Ayrshire, Clydesdale, Nithisdale, Annandale, every parish was visited by these turbulent zealots. Macaulay. ZEALOTICAL Zea*lot"ic*al, a. Defn: Like, or suitable to, a zealot; ardently zealous. [R.] Strype. ZEALOTISM Zeal"ot*ism, n. Defn: The character or conduct of a zealot; zealotry. ZEALOTIST Zeal"ot*ist, n. Defn: A zealot. [Obs.] Howell. ZEALOTRY Zeal"ot*ry, n. Defn: The character and behavior of a zealot; excess of zeal; fanatical devotion to a cause. Enthusiasm, visionariness, seems the tendency of the German; zeal, zealotry, of the English; fanaticism, of the French. Coleridge. ZEALOUS Zeal"ous, a. Etym: [LL. zelosus. See Zeal.] 1. Filled with, or characterized by, zeal; warmly engaged, or ardent, in behalf of an object. He may be zealous in the salvation of souls. Law. 2. Filled with religious zeal. [Obs.] Shak. -- Zeal"ous*ly, adv. -- Zeal"ous*ness, n. ZEBEC Ze"bec, n. (Naut.) Defn: See Xebec. ZEBRA Ze"bra, n. Etym: [Pg. zebra; cf. Sp. cebra; probably from a native African name.] (Zoöl.) Defn: Either one of two species of South African wild horses remarkable for having the body white or yellowish white, and conspicuously marked with dark brown or brackish bands. Note: The true or mountain zebra (Equus, or Asinus, zebra) is nearly white, and the bands which cover the body and legs are glossy black. Its tail has a tuft of black hair at the tip. It inhabits the mountains of Central and Southern Africa, and is noted for its wariness and wildness, as well as for its swiftness. The second species (Equus, or Asinus, Burchellii), known as Burchell's zebra, and dauw, inhabits the grassy plains of South Africa, and differs from the preceding in not having dark bands on the legs, while those on the body are more irregular. It has a long tail, covered with long white flowing hair. Zebra caterpillar, the larva of an American noctuid moth (Mamestra picta). It is light yellow, with a broad black stripe on the back and one on each side; the lateral stripes are crossed with withe lines. It feeds on cabbages, beets, clover, and other cultivated plants. -- Zebra opossum, the zebra wolf. See under Wolf. -- Zebra parrakeet, an Australian grass parrakeet, often kept as a cage bird. Its upper parts are mostly pale greenish yellow, transversely barred with brownish black crescents; the under parts, rump, and upper tail coverts, are bright green; two central tail feathers and the cheek patches are blue. Called also canary parrot, scallop parrot, shell parrot, and undulated parrot. -- Zebra poison (Bot.), a poisonous tree (Euphorbia arborea) of the Spurge family, found in South Africa. Its milky juice is so poisonous that zebras have been killed by drinking water in which its branches had been placed, and it is also used as an arrow poison. J. Smith (Dict. Econ. Plants). -- Zebra shark. Same as Tiger shark, under Tiger. -- Zebra spider, a hunting spider. -- Zebra swallowtail, a very large North American swallow-tailed butterfly (Iphiclides ajax), in which the wings are yellow, barred with black; -- called also ajax. -- Zebra wolf. See under Wolf. ZEBRAWOOD Ze"bra*wood`, n. (a) A kind of cabinet wood having beautiful black, brown, and whitish stripes, the timber of a tropical American tree (Connarus Guianensis). (b) The wood of a small West Indian myrtaceous tree (Eugenia fragrans). (c) The wood of an East Indian tree of the genus Guettarda. ZEBRINE Ze"brine, a. (Zoöl.) Defn: Pertaining to, or resembling, the zebra. ZEBRINNY Ze*brin"ny, n.; pl. -nies. Defn: A cross between a male horse and a female zebra. ZEBRULA; ZEBRULE Ze"bru*la, Ze"brule, n. Defn: A cross between a male zebra and a female horse. ZEBU Ze"bu, n. [zébu; of uncertain origin.] (Zoöl.) Defn: A bovine mammal (Ros Indicus) extensively domesticated in India, China, the East Indies, and East Africa. It usually has short horns, large pendulous ears, slender legs, a large dewlap, and a large, prominent hump over the shoulders; but these characters vary in different domestic breeds, which range in size from that of the common ox to that of a large mastiff. Note: Some of the varieties are used as beasts of burden, and some fore for riding, while others are raised for their milk and flesh. The Brahmin bull, regarded as sacred by the Hindoos, also belongs to this species. The male is called also Indian bull, Indian ox, Madras ox, and sacred bull. ZEBUB Ze"bub, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: A large noxious fly of Abyssinia, which like the tsetse fly, is destructive to cattle. ZECHIN Ze"chin, n. Defn: See Sequin. ZECHSTEIN Zech"stein`, n. Etym: [Gr., fr. zeche a mine + stein a stone.] (Geol.) Defn: The upper division of the Permian (Dyas) of Europe. The prevailing rock is a magnesian limestone. ZED Zed, n. Etym: [F., probably through It. zeta, fr. L. zeta. See Zeta.] Defn: The letter Z; -- called also zee, and formerly izzard. "Zed, thou unnecessary letter!" Shak. ZEDOARY Zed"o*a*ry, n. Etym: [F. zédoaire, LL. zedoaria; cf. It. zedoaria, zettovario, Pg. zedoaria, Sp. zedoaria, cedoaria; all fr. Ar. & Per. zedw.] (Med.) Defn: A medicinal substance obtained in the East Indian, having a fragrant smell, and a warm, bitter, aromatic taste. It is used in medicine as a stimulant. Note: It is the rhizome of different species of Curcuma, esp. C. zedoaria, and comes in short, firm pieces, externally of a wrinkled gray, ash-colored appearance, but within of a brownish red color. There are two kinds, round zedoary, and long zedoary. ZEEKOE Zee"koe, n. Etym: [D., sea cow, lake cow.] (Zoöl.) Defn: A hippopotamus. ZEEMAN EFFECT Zee"man ef*fect". (Physics) Defn: The widening and duplication, triplication, etc., of spectral lines when the radiations emanate in a strong magnetic field, first observed in 1896 by P. Zeeman, a Dutch physicist, and regarded as an important confirmation of the electromagnetic theory of light. ZEHNER Zeh"ner, n. Etym: [G.] Defn: An Austrian silver coin equal to ten kreutzers, or about five cents. ZEIN Ze"in, n. Etym: [Cf. F. zé\'8bne. See Zea.] (Chem.) Defn: A nitrogenous substance of the nature of gluten, obtained from the seeds of Indian corn (Zea) as a soft, yellowish, amorphous substance. [Formerly written zeine.] ZEITGEIST Zeit"geist`, n. [G.; zeit time + geist spirit. See Tide, n.; Ghost, n.] Defn: The spirit of the time; the general intellectual and moral state or temper characteristic of any period of time. ZEMINDAR Zem`in*dar", n. Defn: Same as Zamindar. ZEMINDARY; ZEMINDARI Zem"in*da*ry, Zem"in*da*ri, n. Defn: Same as Zamindary. ZEMNI Zem"ni, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: The blind mole rat (Spalax typhlus), native of Eastern Europe and Asia. Its eyes and ears are rudimentary, and its fur is soft and brownish, more or less tinged with gray. It constructs extensive burrows. ZEMSTVO Zem"stvo, n. [Russ., fr. zemlya land.] Defn: In Russia, an elective local district and provincial administrative assembly. Originally it was composed of representatives elected by the peasantry, the householders of the towns, and the landed proprietors. In the reign of Alexander III. the power of the noble landowners was increased, the peasants allowed only to elect candidates from whom the governor of the province nominated the deputy, and all acts of the zemstvo subjected to the approval of the governor. Theoretically the zemstvo has large powers relating to taxation, education, public health, etc., but practically these powers are in most cases limited to the adjustment of the state taxation. ZENANA Ze*na"na, n. Etym: [Hind. zenana, zanana, fr. Per. zanana, fr. zan woman; akin to E. queen.] Defn: The part of a dwelling appropriated to women. [India] ZEND Zend, n. Etym: [See Zend-Avesta.] Defn: