[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

of the fingers; a hand; -- used in measuring a horse's height. Note: In Greece, the palm was reckoned at three inches. The Romans adopted two measures of this name, the lesser palm of 2.91 inches, and the greater palm of 8.73 inches. At the present day, this measure varies in the most arbitrary manner, being different in each country, and occasionally varying in the same. Internat. Cyc. 3. (Sailmaking) Defn: A metallic disk, attached to a strap, and worn the palm of the hand, -- used to push the needle through the canvas, in sewing sails, etc. 4. (Zoöl.) Defn: The broad flattened part of an antler, as of a full-grown fallow deer; -- so called as resembling the palm of the hand with its protruding fingers. 5. (Naut.) Defn: The flat inner face of an anchor fluke. PALM Palm, n. Etym: [AS. palm, L. palma; -- so named fr. the leaf resembling a hand. See lst Palm, and cf. Pam.] 1. (Bot.) Defn: Any endogenous tree of the order Palmæ or Palmaceæ; a palm tree. Note: Palms are perennial woody plants, often of majestic size. The trunk is usually erect and rarely branched, and has a roughened exterior composed of the persistent bases of the leaf stalks. The leaves are borne in a terminal crown, and are supported on stout, sheathing, often prickly, petioles. They are usually of great size, and are either pinnately or palmately many-cleft. There are about one thousand species known, nearly all of them growing in tropical or semitropical regions. The wood, petioles, leaves, sap, and fruit of many species are invaluable in the arts and in domestic economy. Among the best known are the date palm, the cocoa palm, the fan palm, the oil palm, the wax palm, the palmyra, and the various kinds called cabbage palm and palmetto. 2. A branch or leaf of the palm, anciently borne or worn as a symbol of victory or rejoicing. A great multitude . . . stood before the throne, and before the Lamb, clothed with white robes, and palme in their hands. Rev. vii. 9. 3. Hence: Any symbol or token of superiority, success, or triumph; also, victory; triumph; supremacy. "The palm of martyrdom." Chaucer. So get the start of the majestic world And bear the palm alone. Shak. Molucca palm (Bot.), a labiate herb from Asia (Molucella lævis), having a curious cup-shaped calyx. -- Palm cabbage, the terminal bud of a cabbage palm, used as food. -- Palm cat (Zoöl.), the common paradoxure. -- Palm crab (Zoöl.), the purse crab. -- Palm oil, a vegetable oil, obtained from the fruit of several species of palms, as the African oil palm (Elæis Guineensis), and used in the manufacture of soap and candles. See Elæis. -- Palm swift (Zoöl.), a small swift (Cypselus Btassiensis) which frequents the palmyra and cocoanut palms in India. Its peculiar nest is attached to the leaf of the palmyra palm. -- Palm toddy. Same as Palm wine. -- Palm weevil (Zoöl.), any one of mumerous species of very large weevils of the genus Rhynchophorus. The larvæ bore into palm trees, and are called palm borers, and grugru worms. They are considered excellent food. -- Palm wine, the sap of several species of palms, especially, in India, of the wild date palm (Phoenix sylvestrix), the palmyra, and the Caryota urens. When fermented it yields by distillation arrack, and by evaporation jaggery. Called also palm toddy. -- Palm worm, or Palmworm. (Zoöl.) (a) The larva of a palm weevil. (b) A centipede. PALM Palm, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Palmed; p. pr. & vb. n. Palming.] 1. To handle. [Obs.] Prior. 2. To manipulate with, or conceal in, the palm of the hand; to juggle. They palmed the trick that lost the game. Prior. 3. To impose by frand, as by sleight of hand; to put by unfair means; -- usually with off. For you may palm upon us new for old. Dryden. PALMACEOUS Pal*ma"ceous, a. (Bot.) Defn: Of or pertaining to palms; of the nature of, or resembling, palms. PALMA CHRISTI Pal"ma Chris"ti. Etym: [L., palm of Christ.] (Bot.) Defn: A plant (Ricinus communis) with ornamental peltate and palmately cleft foliage, growing as a woody perennial in the tropics, and cultivated as an herbaceous annual in temperate regions; -- called also castor-oil plant. [Sometimes corrupted into palmcrist.] PALMACITE Pal"ma*cite, n. (Paleon.) Defn: A fossil palm. PALMAR Pal"mar, a. Etym: [L. palmaris, fr. palma the palm of the hand: cf. F. palmaire.] 1. (Anat.) Defn: Pertaining to, or corresponding with, the palm of the hand. 2. (Zoöl.) Defn: Of or pertaining to the under side of the wings of birds. PALMARIUM Pal*ma"ri*um, n.; pl. Palmaria. Etym: [NL. See Palmar.] (Zoöl.) Defn: One of the bifurcations of the brachial plates of a crinoid. PALMARY Pal"ma*ry, a. (Anat.) Defn: Palmar. PALMARY Pal"ma*ry, a. Etym: [L. palmarius, palmaris, belonging to palms, deserving the palm or prize, fr. palma a palm.] Defn: Worthy of the palm; palmy; preëminent; superior; principal; chief; as, palmary work. Br. Horne. PALMATE Pal"mate, n. Defn: (Chem.) A salt of palmic acid; a ricinoleate. [Obsoles.] PALMATE; PALMATED Pal"mate, Pal"ma*ted, a. Etym: [L. palmatus marked with the palm of a hand, from palma the palm of the hand.] 1. Having the shape of the hand; resembling a hand with the fingers spread. 2. (Bot.) Defn: Spreading from the apex of a petiole, as the divisions of a leaf, or leaflets, so as to resemble the hand with outspread fingers. Gray. 3. (Zoöl.) (a) Having the anterior toes united by a web, as in most swimming birds; webbed. See Illust. (i) under Aves. (b) Having the distal portion broad, flat, and more or less divided into lobes; -- said of certain corals, antlers, etc. PALMATELY Pal"mate*ly, adv. Defn: In a palmate manner. PALMATIFID Pal*mat"i*fid, a. Etym: [L. palmatus palmate + root of findere to split.] (Bot.) Defn: Palmate, with the divisions separated but little more than halfway to the common center. PALMATILOBED Pal*mat"i*lobed, a. Etym: [L. palmatus palmate + E. lobed.] (Bot.) Defn: Palmate, with the divisions separated less than halfway to the common center. PALMATISECT; PALMATISECTED Pal*mat"i*sect, Pal*mat`i*sect"ed, a. Etym: [L. palmatus palmate + secare to cut.] (Bot.) Defn: Divided, as a palmate leaf, down to the midrib, so that the parenchyma is interrupted. PALMCRIST Palm"crist, n. Defn: The palma Christi. (Jonah iv. 6, margin, and Douay version, note.) PALMED Palmed, a. Defn: Having or bearing a palm or palms. Paimed deer (Zoöl.), a stag of full growth, bearing palms. See lst Palm, 4. PALMER Palm"er, n. Etym: [From Palm, v. t.] Defn: One who palms or cheats, as at cards or dice. PALMER Palm"er, n.Etym: [From Palm the tree.] Defn: A wandering religious votary; especially, one who bore a branch of palm as a token that he had visited the Holy Land and its sacred places. Chaucer. Pilgrims and palmers plighted them together. P. Plowman. The pilgrim had some home or dwelling place, the palmer had none. The pilgrim traveled to some certain, designed place or places, but the palmer to all. T. Staveley. PALMERWORM Palm"er*worm`, n. (Zoöl.) (a) Any hairy caterpillar which appears in great numbers, devouring herbage, and wandering about like a palmer. The name is applied also to other voracious insects. Joel. i. 4. (b) In America, the larva of any one of several moths, which destroys the foliage of fruit and forest trees, esp. the larva of Ypsolophus pometellus, which sometimes appears in vast numbers. PALMETTE Pal*mette", n. Etym: [F., dim. of palme a palm.] Defn: A floral ornament, common in Greek and other ancient architecture; -- often called the honeysuckle ornament. PALMETTO Pal*met"to, n. Etym: [Dim. of palm the tree: cf. Sp. palmito.] (Bot.) Defn: A name given to palms of several genera and species growing in the West Indies and the Southern United States. In the United States, the name is applied especially to the Chamærops, or Sabal, Palmetto, the cabbage tree of Florida and the Carolinas. See Cabbage tree, under Cabbage. Royal palmetto, the West Indian Sabal umbraculifera, the trunk of which, when hollowed, is used for water pipes, etc. The leaves are used for thatching, and for making hats, ropes, etc. -- Saw palmetto, Sabal serrulata, a native of Georgia, South Carolina, and Florida. The nearly impassable jungle which it forms is called palmetto scrub. PALMETTO FLAG Pal*met"to flag. Defn: Any of several flags adopted by South California after its secession. That adopted in November, 1860, had a green cabbage palmetto in the center of a white field; the final one, January, 1861, had a white palmetto in the center of a blue field and a white crescent in the upper left-hand corner. PALMETTO STATE Palmetto State. Defn: South California; -- a nickname alluding to the State Arms, which contain a representation of a palmetto tree. PALMIC Pal"mic, a. Etym: [Cf. F. palmique.] (Chem.) Defn: Of, pertaining to, or derived from, the castor-oil plant (Ricinus communis, or Palma Christi); -- formerly used to