[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

but my Lord Winchelsea struck in." Evelyn. (d) To join in after another has begun,as in singing. -- To strike in with, to conform to; to suit itself to; to side with, to join with at once. "To assert this is to strike in with the known enemies of God's grace." South. To strike out. (a) To start; to wander; to make a sudden excursion; as, to strike out into an irregular course of life. (b) To strike with full force. (c) (Baseball) To be put out for not hitting the ball during one's turn at the bat. -- To strike up, to commence to play as a musician; to begin to sound, as an instrument. "Whilst any trump did sound, or drum struck up." Shak. STRIKE Strike, n. 1. The act of striking. 2. An instrument with a straight edge for leveling a measure of grain, salt, and the like, scraping off what is above the level of the top; a strickle. 3. A bushel; four pecks. [Prov. Eng.] Tusser. 4. An old measure of four bushels. [Prov. Eng.] 5. Fullness of measure; hence, excellence of quality. Three hogsheads of ale of the first strike. Sir W. Scott. 6. An iron pale or standard in a gate or fence. [Obs.] 7. The act of quitting work; specifically, such an act by a body of workmen, done as a means of enforcing compliance with demands made on their employer. Strikes are the insurrections of labor. F. A. Walker. 8. (Iron Working) Defn: A puddler's stirrer. 9. (Geol.) Defn: The horizontal direction of the outcropping edges of tilted rocks; or, the direction of a horizontal line supposed to be drawn on the surface of a tilted stratum. It is at right angles to the dip. 10. The extortion of money, or the attempt to extort money, by threat of injury; blackmailing. Strike block (Carp.), a plane shorter than a jointer, used for fitting a short joint. Moxon. -- Strike of flax, a handful that may be hackled at once. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Chaucer. -- Strike of sugar. (Sugar Making) (a) The act of emptying the teache, or last boiler, in which the cane juice is exposed to heat, into the coolers. (b) The quantity of the sirup thus emptied at once. STRIKER Strik"er, n. 1. One who, or that which, strikes; specifically, a blacksmith's helper who wieds the sledge. 2. A harpoon; also, a harpooner. Wherever we come to an anchor, we always send out our strikers, and put out hooks and lines overboard, to try fish. Dampier. 3. A wencher; a lewd man. [Obs.] Massinger. 4. A workman who is on a strike. 5. A blackmailer in politics; also, one whose political influence can be bought. [Political Cant] STRIKING Strik"ing, Defn: a. & n. from Strike, v. Striking distance, the distance through which an object can be reached by striking; the distance at which a force is effective when directed to a particular object. -- Striking plate. (a) The plate against which the latch of a door lock strikes as the door is closed. (b) A part of the centering of an arch, which is driven back to loosen the centering in striking it. STRIKING Strik"ing, a. Defn: Affecting with strong emotions; surprising; forcible; impressive; very noticeable; as, a striking representation or image; a striking resemblance. "A striking fact." De Quincey. -- Strik"ing*ly, adv. -- Strik"ing*ness, n. STRIKLE Strik"le, n. Defn: See Strickle. STRING String, n. Etym: [OE. string, streng, AS. streng; akin to D. streng, G. strang, Icel. strengr, Sw. sträng, Dan. stræng; probably from the adj., E. strong (see Strong); or perhaps originally meaning, twisted, and akin to E. strangle.] 1. A small cord, a line, a twine, or a slender strip of leather, or other substance, used for binding together, fastening, or tying things; a cord, larger than a thread and smaller than a rope; as, a shoe string; a bonnet string; a silken string. Shak. Round Ormond's knee thou tiest the mystic string. Prior. 2. A thread or cord on which a number of objects or parts are strung or arranged in close and orderly succession; hence, a line or series of things arranged on a thread, or as if so arranged; a succession; a concatenation; a chain; as, a string of shells or beads; a string of dried apples; a string of houses; a string of arguments. "A string of islands." Gibbon. 3. A strip, as of leather, by which the covers of a book are held together. Milton. 4. The cord of a musical instrument, as of a piano, harp, or violin; specifically (pl.), the stringed instruments of an orchestra, in distinction from the wind instruments; as, the strings took up the theme. "An instrument of ten strings." Ps. xxx. iii. 2. Me softer airs befit, and softer strings Of lute, or viol still. Milton. 5. The line or cord of a bow. Ps. xi. 2. He twangs the grieving string. Pope. 6. A fiber, as of a plant; a little, fibrous root. Duckweed putteth forth a little string into the water, from the bottom. Bacon. 7. A nerve or tendon of an animal body. The string of his tongue was loosed. Mark vii. 35. 8. (Shipbuilding) Defn: An inside range of ceiling planks, corresponding to the sheer strake on the outside and bolted to it. 9. (Bot.) Defn: The tough fibrous substance that unites the valves of the pericap of leguminous plants, and which is readily pulled off; as, the strings of beans. 10. (Mining) Defn: A small, filamentous ramification of a metallic vein. Ure. 11. (Arch.) Defn: Same as Stringcourse. 12. (Billiards) Defn: The points made in a game. String band (Mus.), a band of musicians using only, or chiefly, stringed instruments. -- String beans. (a) A dish prepared from the unripe pods of several kinds of beans; -- so called because the strings are stripped off. (b) Any kind of beans in which the pods are used for cooking before the seeds are ripe; usually, the low bush bean. -- To have two strings to one's bow, to have a means or expedient in reserve in case the one employed fails. STRING String, v. t. [imp. Strung; p. p. Strung (R. Stringed); p. pr. & vb. n. Stringing.] 1. To furnish with strings; as, to string a violin. Has not wise nature strung the legs and feet With firmest nerves, designed to walk the street Gay. 2. To put in tune the strings of, as a stringed instrument, in order to play upon it. For here the Muse so oft her harp has strung, That not a mountain rears its head unsung. Addison. 3. To put on a string; to file; as, to string beads. 4. To make tense; to strengthen. Toil strung the nerves, and purified the blood. Dryden. 5. To deprive of strings; to strip the strings from; as, to string beans. See String, n., 9. STRINGBOARD String"board`, n. Defn: Same as Stringpiece. STRINGCOURSE String"course`, n. (Arch.) Defn: A horizontal band in a building, forming a part of the design, whether molded, projecting, or carved, or in any way distinguished from the rest of the work. STRINGED Stringed, a. 1. Having strings; as, a stringed instrument. Ps. cl. 4. 2. Produced by strings. "Answering the stringed noise." Milton. STRINGENCY Strin"gen*cy, n. Defn: The quality or state of being stringent. STRINGENDO Strin"gen*do, a. Etym: [It.] (Mus.) Defn: Urging or hastening the time, as to a climax. STRINGENT Strin"gent, a. Etym: [L. stringens, -entis, p.pr. of stringere to draw or bind tight. See Strain.] Defn: Binding strongly; making strict requirements; restrictive; rigid; severe; as, stringent rules. They must be subject to a sharper penal code, and to a more stringent code of procedure. Macaulay. -- Strin"gent*ly, adv. -- Strin"gent*ness, n. STRINGER String"er, n. 1. One who strings; one who makes or provides strings, especially for bows. Be content to put your trust in honest stringers. Ascham. 2. A libertine; a wencher. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl. 3. (Railroad) Defn: A longitudinal sleeper. 4. (Shipbuilding) Defn: A streak of planking carried round the inside of a vessel on the under side of the beams. 5. (Carp.) Defn: A long horizontal timber to connect uprights in a frame, or to support a floor or the like. STRINGHALT String"halt`, n. (Far.) Defn: An habitual sudden twitching of the hinder leg of a horse, or an involuntary or convulsive contraction of the muscles that raise the hock. [Written also springhalt.] STRINGINESS String"i*ness, n. Defn: Quality of being stringy. STRINGLESS String"less, a. Defn: Having no strings. His tongue is now a stringless instrument. Shak. STRINGPIECE String"piece`, n. (Arch.) (a) A long piece of timber, forming a margin or edge of any piece of construction; esp.: (b) One of the longitudinal pieces, supporting the treads and rises of a flight or run of stairs. STRINGY String"y, a. 1. Consisting of strings, or small threads; fibrous; filamentous; as, a stringy root. 2. Capable of being drawn into a