[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

9. 4. The contents of a vessel by which quantity is measured; a quantity determined by a standard; a stated or limited quantity or amount. It is like leaven which a woman took and hid in three measures of meal. Luke xiii. 21. 5. Extent or degree not excessive or beyong bounds; moderation; due restraint; esp. in the phrases, in measure; with measure; without or beyond measure. Hell hath enlarged herself, and opened her mouth without measure. Is. v. 14. 6. Determined extent, not to be exceeded; limit; allotted share, as of action, influence, ability, or the like; due proportion. Lord, make me to know mine end, and the measure of my days. Ps. xxxix. 4. 7. The quantity determined by measuring, especially in buying and selling; as, to give good or full measure. 8. Undefined quantity; extent; degree. There is a great measure of discretion to be used in the performance of confession. Jer. Taylor. 9. Regulated division of movement: (a) (Dancing) A regulated movement corresponding to the time in which the accompanying music is performed; but, especially, a slow and stately dane, like the minuet. (b) (Mus.) (1) The group or grouping of beats, caused by the regular recurrence of accented beats. (2) Defn: The space between two bars. See Beat, Triple, Quadruple, Sextuple, Compound time, under Compound, a., and Figure. (c) (Poetry) The manner of ordering and combining the quantities, or long and short syllables; meter; rhythm; hence, a foot; as, a poem in iambic measure. 10. (Arith.) Defn: A number which is contained in a given number a number of times without a remainder; as in the phrases, the common measure, the greatest common measure, etc., of two or more numbers. 11. A step or definite part of a progressive course or policy; a means to an end; an act designed for the accomplishment of an object; as, political measures; prudent measures; an inefficient measure. His majesty found what wrong measures he had taken in the conferring that trust, and lamented his error. Clarendon. 12. The act of measuring; measurement. Shak. 13. pl. (Geol.) Defn: Beds or strata; as, coal measures; lead measures. Lineal, or Long, measure, measure of length; the measure of lines or distances. -- Liquid measure, the measure of liquids. -- Square measure, the measure of superficial area of surfaces in square units, as inches, feet, miles, etc. -- To have hard measure, to have harsh treatment meted out to one; to be harshly or oppressively dealt with. -- To take measures, to make preparations; to provide means. -- To take one's measure, to measure one, as for a garment; hence, to form an opinion of one's disposition, character, ability, etc. -- To tread a measure, to dance in the style so called. See 9 (a). Say to her, we have measured many miles To tread a measure with her on this grass. Shak. MEASURE Meas"ure, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Measured; p. pr. & vb. n. Measuring.] Etym: [F. mesurer, L. mensurare. See Measure, n.] 1. To ascertain by use of a measuring instrument; to compute or ascertain the extent, quantity, dimensions, or capacity of, by a certain rule or standard; to take the dimensions of; hence, to estimate; to judge of; to value; to appraise. Great are thy works, Jehovah, infinite Thy power! what thought can measure thee Milton. 2. To serve as the measure of; as, the thermometer measures changes of temperature. 3. To pass throught or over in journeying, as if laying off and determining the distance. A true devoted pilgrim is not weary To measure kingdoms with his feeble steps. Shak. 4. To adjust by a rule or standard. To secure a contented spirit, measure your desires by your fortunes, not your fortunes by your desires. Jer. Taylor. 5. To allot or distribute by measure; to set off or apart by measure; -- often with out or off. With what measure ye mete, it shall be measured to you again. Matt. vii. 2. That portion of eternity which is called time, measured out by the sun. Addison. To measure swords with one, to try another's skill in the use of the sword; hence, figuratively, to match one's abilities against an antagonist's. MEASURE Meas"ure, v. i. 1. To make a measurement or measurements. 2. To result, or turn out, on measuring; as, the grain measures well; the pieces measure unequally. 3. To be of a certain size or quantity, or to have a certain length, breadth, or thickness, or a certain capacity according to a standard measure; as, cloth measures three fourths of a yard; a tree measures three feet in diameter. MEASURED Meas"ured, a. Defn: Regulated or determined by a standard; hence, equal; uniform; graduated; limited; moderated; as, he walked with measured steps; he expressed himself in no measured terms. -- Meas"ured*ly, adv. MEASURELESS Meas"ure*less, a. Defn: Without measure; unlimited; immeasurable. -- Meas"ure*less*ness, n. Syn. -- Boundless; limitless; endless; unbounded; unlimited; vast; immense; infinite; immeasurable. Where Alf, the sacred river ran, Through canyons measureless to man, Down to a hidden sea. Coleridge MEASUREMENT Meas"ure*ment, n. 1. The act or result of measuring; mensuration; as, measurement is required. 2. The extent, size, capacity, amount. or quantity ascertained by measuring; as, its measurement is five acres. MEASURER Meas"ur*er, n. Defn: One who measures; one whose occupation or duty is to measure commondities in market. MEASURING Meas"ur*ing, a. Defn: Used in, or adapted for, ascertaining measurements, or dividing by measure. Measuring faucet, a faucet which permits only a given quantity of liquid to pass each time it is opened, or one by means of which the liquid which passes can be measured. -- Measuring worm (Zoöl.), the larva of any geometrid moth. See Geometrid. MEAT Meat, n. Etym: [OE. mete, AS. mete; akin to OS. mat, meti, D. met hashed meat, G. mettwurst sausage, OHG. maz food, Icel. matr, Sw. mat, Dan. mad, Goth. mats. Cf. Mast fruit, Mush.] 1. Food, in general; anything eaten for nourishment, either by man or beast. Hence, the edible part of anything; as, the meat of a lobster, a nut, or an egg. Chaucer. And God said, Behold, I have given you every herb bearing seed, . . . to you it shall be for meat. Gen. i. 29. Every moving thing that liveth shall be meat for you. Gen. ix. 3. 2. The flesh of animals used as food; esp., animal muscle; as, a breakfast of bread and fruit without meat. 3. Specifically, dinner; the chief meal. [Obs.] Chaucer. Meat biscuit. See under Biscuit. -- Meat earth (Mining), vegetable mold. Raymond. -- Meat fly. (Zoöl.) See Flesh fly, under Flesh. -- Meat offering (Script.), an offering of food, esp. of a cake made of flour with salt and oil. -- To go to meat, to go to a meal. [Obs.] -- To sit at meat, to sit at the table in taking food. MEAT Meat, v. t. Defn: To supply with food. [Obs.] Tusser. His shield well lined, his horses meated well. Chapman. MEATAL Me*a"tal, a. Defn: Of or pertaining to a meatus; resembling a meatus. Owen. MEATED Meat"ed, a. 1. Fed; fattened. [Obs.] Tusser. 2. Having (such) meat; -- used chiefly in composition; as, thick- meated. MEATH; MEATHE Meath, Meathe, n. Etym: [See Mead.] Defn: A sweet liquor; mead. [Obs.] Chaucer. Milton. MEATINESS Meat"i*ness, n. Defn: Quality of being meaty. MEATLESS Meat"less, a. Defn: Having no meat; without food. "Leave these beggars meatless." Sir T. More. MEATOSCOPE Me*at"o*scope, n. Etym: [Meatus + -scope.] (Med.) Defn: A speculum for examining a natural passage, as the urethra. MEATOTOME Me*at"o*tome, n. Etym: [Meatus + Gr. (Surg.) Defn: An instrument for cutting into the urethra so as to enlarge its orifice. MEATUS Me*a"tus, n. sing. & pl.; E. pl. Meatuses (. Etym: [L., a going, passage, fr. meare to go.] (Anat.) Defn: A natural passage or canal; as, the external auditory meatus. See Illust. of Ear. MEATY Meat"y, a. Defn: Abounding in meat. MEAW Meaw, n. Defn: The sea mew. [Obs.] Spenser. MEAW Meaw, v. i. Defn: See Mew, to cry as a cat. MEAWL Meawl, v. i. Defn: See Mewl, and Miaul. MEAZEL Mea"zel, n. Defn: See 1st Measle. [Obs.] MEAZLING Meaz"ling, a. Defn: Falling in small drops; mistling; mizzing. [Obs.] Arbuthnot. MEBLES Me"bles, n. pl. Defn: See Moebles. [Obs.] MECATE Me*ca"te, n. Etym: [Sp.] Defn: A rope of hair or of maguey fiber, for tying horses, etc. [Southwestern U. S.] MECCAWEE Mec`ca*wee", a. Defn: Of or pertaining to Mecca, in Arabia. -- n. Defn: A native or inhabitant of Mecca. MECHANIC Me*chan"ic, n. Etym: [F. mécanique mechanics. See Mechanic, a.] 1. The art of the application of the laws of motion or force to construction. [Obs.] 2. A mechanician; an artisan; an artificer; one who practices any mechanic art; one skilled or employed in shaping and uniting materials, as wood, metal, etc., into any kind of structure, machine, or other object, requiring the use of tools, or instruments. An art quite lost with our