[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

plant itself. Rubus fruticosus is the blackberry of England; R. villosus and R. Canadensis are the high blackberry and low blackberry of the United States. There are also other kinds. BLACKBIRD Black"bird, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: In England, a species of thrush (Turdus merula), a singing bird with a fin note; the merle. In America the name is given to several birds, as the Quiscalus versicolor, or crow blackbird; the Agelæus phoeniceus, or red-winged blackbird; the cowbird; the rusty grackle, etc. See Redwing. BLACKBIRDER Black"bird*er, n. Defn: A slave ship; a slaver. [Colloq.] F. T. Bullen. BLACKBIRDING Black"bird*ing, n. 1. The kidnaping of negroes or Polynesians to be sold as slaves. 2. The act or practice of collecting natives of the islands near Queensland for service on the Queensland sugar plantations. [Australia] BLACKBOARD Black"board`, n. Defn: A broad board painted black, or any black surface on which writing, drawing, or the working of mathematical problems can be done with chalk or crayons. It is much used in schools. BLACK BOOK Black" book`. 1. One of several books of a political character, published at different times and for different purposes; -- so called either from the color of the binding, or from the character of the contents. 2. A book compiled in the twelfth century, containing a description of the court of exchequer of England, an official statement of the revenues of the crown, etc. 3. A book containing details of the enormities practiced in the English monasteries and religious houses, compiled by order of their visitors under Henry VIII., to hasten their dissolution. 4. A book of admiralty law, of the highest authority, compiled in the reign of Edw. III. Bouvier. Wharton. 5. A book kept for the purpose of registering the names of persons liable to censure or punishment, as in the English universities, or the English armies. 6. Any book which treats of necromancy. BLACK-BROWED Black"-browed`, a. Defn: Having black eyebrows. Hence: Gloomy; dismal; threatening; forbidding. Shak. Dryden. BLACKBURNIAN WARBLER Black*bur"ni*an war"bler. Etym: [Named from Mrs. Blackburn, an English lady.] (Zoöl.) Defn: A beautiful warbler of the United States (Dendroica Blackburniæ). The male is strongly marked with orange, yellow, and black on the head and neck, and has an orange-yellow breast. BLACKCAP Black"cap`, n. 1. (Zoöl.) (a) A small European song bird (Sylvia atricapilla), with a black crown; the mock nightingale. (b) An American titmouse (Parus atricapillus); the chickadee. 2. (Cookery) Defn: An apple roasted till black, to be served in a dish of boiled custard. 3. The black raspberry. BLACKCOAT Black"coat`, n. Defn: A clergyman; -- familiarly so called, as a soldier is sometimes called a redcoat or a bluecoat. BLACKCOCK Black"cock`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: The male of the European black grouse (Tetrao tetrix, Linn.); - - so called by sportsmen. The female is called gray hen. See Heath grouse. BLACK DEATH Black" death`. Defn: A pestilence which ravaged Europe and Asia in the fourteenth century. BLACKEN Black"en, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Blackened; p. pr. & vb. n. Blackening.] Etym: [See Black, a., and cf. Black, v. t. ] 1. To make or render black. While the long funerals blacken all the way. Pope 2. To make dark; to darken; to cloud. "Blackened the whole heavens." South. 3. To defame; to sully, as reputation; to make infamous; as, vice blackens the character. Syn. -- To denigrate; defame; vilify; slander; calumniate; traduce; malign; asperse. BLACKEN Black"en, v. i. Defn: To grow black or dark. BLACKENER Black"en*er, n. Defn: One who blackens. BLACK-EYED Black"-eyed`, a. Defn: Having black eyes. Dryden. BLACK-EYED SUSAN Black"-eyed` Su"san. (Bot.) (a) The coneflower, or yellow daisy (Rudbeckia hirta). (b) The bladder ketmie. BLACK-FACED Black"-faced`, a. Defn: Having a black, dark, or gloomy face or aspect. BLACKFEET Black"feet`, n. pl. (Ethn.) Defn: A tribe of North American Indians formerly inhabiting the country from the upper Missouri River to the Saskatchewan, but now much reduced in numbers. BLACKFIN Black"fin`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: See Bluefin. BLACKFISH Black"fish, n. 1. (Zoöl.) Defn: A small kind of whale, of the genus Globicephalus, of several species. The most common is G. melas. Also sometimes applied to other whales of larger size. 2. (Zoöl.) Defn: The tautog of New England (Tautoga). 3. (Zoöl.) Defn: The black sea bass (Centropristis atrarius) of the Atlantic coast. It is excellent food fish; -- locally called also black Harry. 4. (Zoöl.) Defn: A fish of southern Europe (Centrolophus pompilus) of the Mackerel family. 5. (Zoöl.) Defn: The female salmon in the spawning season. Note: The name is locally applied to other fishes. BLACK FLAGS Black Flags. Defn: An organization composed originally of Chinese rebels that had been driven into Tonkin by the suppression of the Taiping rebellion, but later increased by bands of pirates and adventurers. It took a prominent part in fighting the French during their hostilities with Anam, 1873-85. BLACKFOOT Black"foot`, a. Defn: Of or pertaining to the Blackfeet; as, a Blackfoot Indian. -- n. Defn: A Blackfoot Indian. BLACK FRIAR Black" fri`ar. (Eccl.) Defn: A friar of the Dominican order; -- called also predicant and preaching friar; in France, Jacobin. Also, sometimes, a Benedictine. BLACK FRIDAY Black Friday. Defn: Any Friday on which a public disaster has occurred, as: In England, December 6, 1745, when the news of the landing of the Pretender reached London, or May 11, 1866, when a financial panic commenced. In the United States, September 24, 1869, and September 18, 1873, on which financial panics began. BLACKGUARD Black"guard, n. Etym: [Black + guard.] 1. The scullions and lower menials of a court, or of a nobleman's household, who, in a removal from one residence to another, had charge of the kitchen utensils, and being smutted by them, were jocularly called the "black guard"; also, the servants and hangers-on of an army. [Obs.] A lousy slave, that . . . rode with the black guard in the duke's carriage, 'mongst spits and dripping pans. Webster (1612). 2. The criminals and vagrants or vagabonds of a town or community, collectively. [Obs.] 3. A person of stained or low character, esp. one who uses scurrilous language, or treats others with foul abuse; a scoundrel; a rough. A man whose manners and sentiments are decidedly below those of his class deserves to be called a blackguard. Macaulay. 4. A vagrant; a bootblack; a gamin. [Obs.] BLACKGUARD Black"guard`, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Blackguarded; p. pr. & vb. n. Blackguarding.] Defn: To revile or abuse in scurrilous language. Southey. BLACKGUARD Black"guard, a. Defn: Scurrilous; abusive; low; worthless; vicious; as, blackguard language. BLACKGUARDISM Black"guard*ism, n. Defn: The conduct or language of a blackguard; rufflanism. BLACKGUARDLY Black"guard*ly, adv. & a. Defn: In the manner of or resembling a blackguard; abusive; scurrilous; ruffianly. BLACK HAMBURG Black Ham"burg. Defn: A sweet and juicy variety of European grape, of a dark purplish black color, much grown under glass in northern latitudes. BLACK HAND Black Hand. [A trans. of Sp. mano negra.] 1. Defn: A Spanish anarchistic society, many of the members of which were imprisoned in 1883. 2. A lawless or blackmailing secret society, esp. among Italians. [U. S.] BLACKHEAD Black"head`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: The scaup duck. BLACKHEART Black"heart`, n. Defn: A heart-shaped cherry with a very dark-colored skin. BLACK-HEARTED Black"-heart`ed, a. Defn: Having a wicked, malignant disposition; morally bad. BLACK HOLE Black" hole`. Defn: A dungeon or dark cell in a prison; a military lock-up or guardroom; -- now commonly with allusion to the cell (the Black Hole) in a fort at Calcutta, into which 146 English prisoners were thrust by the nabob Suraja Dowla on the night of June 20, 17656, and in which 123 of the prisoners died before morning from lack of air. A discipline of unlimited autocracy, upheld by rods, and ferules, and the black hole. H. Spencer. BLACKING Black"ing, n. 1. Any preparation for making things black; esp. one for giving a black luster to boots and shoes, or to stoves. 2. The act or process of making black. BLACKISH Black"ish, a. Defn: Somewhat black. BLACK-JACK Black"-jack`, n. 1. (Min.) Defn: A name given by English miners to sphalerite, or zinc blende; - - called also false galena. See Blende. 2. Caramel or burnt sugar, used to color wines, spirits, ground coffee, etc. 3. A large leather vessel for beer, etc. [Obs.] 4. (Bot.) Defn: The Quercus nigra, or barren oak. 5. The ensign of a pirate. BLACK LEAD Black` lead". Defn: Plumbago; graphite.It leaves a blackish mark somewhat like lead. See Graphite. BLACKLEAD Black`lead", v. t. Defn: To coat or to polish with black lead. BLACKLEG Black"leg`, n. 1. A notorious gambler. [Colloq.] 2. A disease among calves and sheep, characterized by a settling of gelatinous matter in the legs, and sometimes in the neck. [Eng.] BLACK LETTER Black" let`ter. Defn: The old English or Gothic letter, in which the Early English manuscripts were written, and the first English books were printed. It was conspicuous for its blackness. See Type. BLACK-LETTER Black"-let`ter, a. 1. Written or printed in black