[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

anything with an other; a partaker; an associate; a sharer. "Partner of his fortune." Shak. Hence: (a) A husband or a wife. (b) Either one of a couple who dance together. (c) One who shares as a member of a partnership in the management, or in the gains and losses, of a business. My other self, the partner of my life. Milton. 2. (Law) Defn: An associate in any business or occupation; a member of a partnership. See Partnership. 3. pl. (Naut.) Defn: A framework of heavy timber surrounding an opening in a deck, to strengthen it for the support of a mast, pump, capstan, or the like. Dormant, or Silent, partner. See under Dormant, a. Syn. -- Associate; colleague; coadjutor; confederate; partaker; participator; companion; comrade; mate. PARTNER Part"ner, v. t. Defn: To associate, to join. [Obs.] Shak. PARTNERSHIP Part"ner*ship, n. 1. The state or condition of being a partner; as, to be in partnership with another; to have partnership in the fortunes of a family or a state. 2. A division or sharing among partners; joint possession or interest. Rome, that ne'er knew three lordly heads before, First fell by fatal partnership of power. Rowe. He does possession keep, And is too wise to hazard partnership. Dryden. 3. An alliance or association of persons for the prosecution of an undertaking or a business on joint account; a company; a firm; a house; as, to form a partnership. 4. (Law) Defn: A contract between two or more competent persons for joining together their money, goods, labor, and skill, or any or all of them, under an understanding that there shall be a communion of profit between them, and for the purpose of carrying on a legal trade, business, or adventure. Kent. Story. Note: Community of profit is absolutely essential to, though not necessary the test of, a partnership. 5. (Arith.) Defn: See Fellowship, n., 6. Limited partnership, a form of partnership in which the firm consists of one or more general partners, jointly and severally responsible as ordinary partners, and one or more special partners, who are not liable for the debts of the partnership beyond the amount of cash they contribute as capital. -- Partnership in commendam, the title given to the limited partnership (F. société en commandité) of the French law, introduced into the code of Louisiana. Burrill. -- Silent partnership, the relation of partnership sustained by a person who furnishes capital only. PARTOOK Par*took", Defn: imp. of Partake. PARTRIDGE Par"tridge, n. Etym: [OE. partriche, pertriche, OF. pertris, perdriz, F. perdrix, L. perdix, -icis, fr. Gr. (Zoöl.) 1. Any one of numerous species of small gallinaceous birds of the genus Perdix and several related genera of the family Perdicidæ, of the Old World. The partridge is noted as a game bird. Full many a fat partrich had he in mew. Chaucer. Note: The common European, or gray, partridge (Perdix cinerea) and the red-legged partridge (Caccabis rubra) of Southern Europe and Asia are well-known species. 2. Any one of several species of quail-like birds belonging to Colinus, and allied genera. [U.S.] Note: Among them are the bobwhite (Colinus Virginianus) of the Eastern States; the plumed, or mountain, partridge (Oreortyx pictus) of California; the Massena partridge (Cyrtonyx Montezumæ); and the California partridge (Callipepla Californica). 3. The ruffed grouse (Bonasa umbellus). [New Eng.] Bamboo partridge (Zoöl.), a spurred partridge of the genus Bambusicola. Several species are found in China and the East Indies. -- Night partridge (Zoöl.), the woodcock. [Local, U.S.] -- Painted partridge (Zoöl.), a francolin of South Africa (Francolinus pictus). -- Partridge berry. (Bot.) (a) The scarlet berry of a trailing american plant (Mitchella repens) of the order Rubiaceæ, having roundish evergreen leaves, and white fragrant flowers sometimes tinged with purple, growing in pairs with the ovaries united, and producing the berries which remain over winter; also, the plant itself. (b) The fruit of the creeping wintergreen (Gaultheria procumbens); also, the plant itself. -- Partridge dove (Zoöl.) Same as Mountain witch, under Mountain. -- Partridge pea (Bot.), a yellow-flowered leguminous herb (Cassia Chamæcrista), common in sandy fields in the Eastern United States. -- Partridge shell (Zoöl.), a large marine univalve shell (Dolium perdix), having colors variegated like those of the partridge. -- Partridge wood (a) A variegated wood, much esteemed for cabinetwork. It is obtained from tropical America, and one source of it is said to be the leguminous tree Andira inermis. Called also pheasant wood. (b) A name sometimes given to the dark-colored and striated wood of some kind of palm, which is used for walking sticks and umbrella handles. -- Sea partridge (Zoöl.), an Asiatic sand partridge (Ammoperdix Bonhami); -- so called from its note. -- Snow partridge (Zoöl.), a large spurred partridge (Lerwa nivicola) which inhabits the high mountains of Asia. -- Spruce partridge. See under Spruce. -- Wood partridge, or Hill partridge (Zoöl.), any small Asiatic partridge of the genus Arboricola. PARTURE Par"ture, n. Defn: Departure. [Obs.] Spenser. PARTURIATE Par*tu"ri*ate, v. i. Etym: [See Parturient.] Defn: To bring forth young. [Obs.] PARTURIENCY Par*tu"ri*en*cy, n. Defn: Parturition. PARTURIENT Par*tu"ri*ent, a. Etym: [L. parturiens, p.pr. of parturire to desire to bring forth, fr. parere, partum, to bring forth. See Parent.] Defn: Bringing forth, or about to bring forth, young; fruitful. Jer. Tailor. PARTURIFACIENT Par*tu`ri*fa"cient, n. Etym: [L. parturire to desire to bring forth + facere to make.] (Med.) Defn: A medicine tending to cause parturition, or to give relief in childbearing. Dunglison. PARTURIOUS Par*tu"ri*ous, a. Defn: Parturient. [Obs.] Drayton. PARTURITION Par`tu*ri"tion, n. Etym: [L. parturitio, fr. parturire: cf. F. parturition. See Parturient.] 1. The act of bringing forth, or being delivered of, young; the act of giving birth; delivery; childbirth. 2. That which is brought forth; a birth. [Obs.] PARTURITIVE Par*tu"ri*tive, a. Defn: Pertaining to parturition; obstetric. [R.] PARTY Par"ty, n.; pl. Parties. Etym: [F. parti and partie, fr. F. partir to part, divide, L. partire, partiri. See Part, v.] 1. A part or portion. [Obs.] "The most party of the time." Chaucer. 2. A number of persons united in opinion or action, as distinguished from, or opposed to, the rest of a community or association; esp., one of the parts into which a people is divided on questions of public policy. Win the noble Brutus to our party. Shak. The peace both parties want is like to last. Dryden. 3. A part of a larger body of company; a detachment; especially (Mil.), a small body of troops dispatched on special service. 4. A number of persons invited to a social entertainment; a select company; as, a dinner party; also, the entertainment itself; as, to give a party. 5. One concerned or interested in an affair; one who takes part with others; a participator; as, he was a party to the plot; a party to the contract. 6. The plaintiff or the defendant in a lawsuit, whether an individual, a firm, or corporation; a litigant. The cause of both parties shall come before the judges. Ex. xxii. 9. 7. Hence, any certain person who is regarded as being opposed or antagonistic to another. It the jury found that the party slain was of English race, it had been adjudged felony. Sir J. Davies. 8. Cause; side; interest. Have you nothing said Upon this Party 'gainst the Duke of Albany Shak. 9. A person; as, he is a queer party. [Now accounted a vulgarism.] Note: "For several generations, our ancestors largely employed party for person; but this use of the word, when it appeared to be reviving, happened to strike, more particularly, the fancy of the vulgar; and the consequence has been, that the polite have chosen to leave it in their undisputed possession." Fitzed. Hall. Party jury (Law), a jury composed of different parties, as one which is half natives and half foreigners. -- Party man, a partisan. Swift. -- Party spirit, a factious and unreasonable temper, not uncommonly shown by party men. Whately. -- Party verdict, a joint verdict. Shak. -- Party wall. (a) (Arch.) A wall built upon the dividing line between two adjoining properties, usually having half its thickness on each property. (b) (Law) A wall that separates adjoining houses, as in a block or row. PARTY Par"ty, a. Etym: [F. parti divided, fr. partir to divide. See Part, v., and cf. Partite.] 1. (Her.) Defn: Parted or divided, as in the direction or form of one of the ordinaries; as, an escutcheon party per pale. 2. Partial; favoring one party. I will be true judge, and not party. Chaucer. Charter party. See under Charter. PARTY Par"ty, adv. Defn: Partly. [Obs.] Chaucer. PARTY-COATED Par"ty-coat`ed, a. Defn: Having a motley coat, or coat of divers colors. Shak. PARTY-COLORED; PARTI-COLORED Par"ty-col`ored, Par"ti-col`ored, a. Defn: Colored with different tints; variegated; as, a party-colored flower. "Parti-colored lambs." Shak. PARTYISM Par"ty*ism, n. Defn: Devotion to party. PARUMBILICAL Par`um*bil"ic*al, a. Etym: [Pref. para- + umbilical.] (Anat.) Defn: Near the umbilicus; -- applied especially to one or more small veins which, in man, connect the portal vein with the epigastric veins