[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

usually put an end to the life of the criminal, and were hence called coups-de-grace -- blows of mercy. The criminal was then unbound, and laid on a small wheel, with his face upward, and his arms and legs doubled under him, there to expire, if he had survived the previous treatment. Brande. (c) (Naut.) A circular frame having handles on the periphery, and an axle which is so connected with the tiller as to form a means of controlling the rudder for the purpose of steering. (d) (Pottery) A potter's wheel. See under Potter. Then I went down to the potter's house, and, behold, he wrought a work on the wheels. Jer. xviii. 3. Turn, turn, my wheel! This earthen jar A touch can make, a touch can mar. Longfellow. (e) (Pyrotechny) Defn: A firework which, while burning, is caused to revolve on an axis by the reaction of the escaping gases. (f) (Poetry) The burden or refrain of a song. Note: "This meaning has a low degree of authority, but is supposed from the context in the few cases where the word is found." Nares. You must sing a-down a-down, An you call him a-down-a. O, how the wheel becomes it! Shak. 3. A bicycle or a tricycle; a velocipede. 4. A rolling or revolving body; anything of a circular form; a disk; an orb. Milton. 5. A turn revolution; rotation; compass. According to the common vicissitude and wheel of things, the proud and the insolent, after long trampling upon others, come at length to be trampled upon themselves. South. [He] throws his steep flight in many an aëry wheel. Milton. A wheel within a wheel, or Wheels within wheels, a complication of circumstances, motives, etc. -- Balance wheel. See in the Vocab. -- Bevel wheel, Brake wheel, Cam wheel, Fifth wheel, Overshot wheel, Spinning wheel, etc. See under Bevel, Brake, etc. -- Core wheel. (Mach.) (a) A mortise gear. (b) A wheel having a rim perforated to receive wooden cogs; the skeleton of a mortise gear. -- Measuring wheel, an odometer, or perambulator. -- Wheel and axle (Mech.), one of the elementary machines or mechanical powers, consisting of a wheel fixed to an axle, and used for raising great weights, by applying the power to the circumference of the wheel, and attaching the weight, by a rope or chain, to that of the axle. Called also axis in peritrochio, and perpetual lever, -- the principle of equilibrium involved being the same as in the lever, while its action is continuous. See Mechanical powers, under Mechanical. -- Wheel animal, or Wheel animalcule (Zoöl.), any one of numerous species of rotifers having a ciliated disk at the anterior end. -- Wheel barometer. (Physics) See under Barometer. -- Wheel boat, a boat with wheels, to be used either on water or upon inclined planes or railways. -- Wheel bug (Zoöl.), a large North American hemipterous insect (Prionidus cristatus) which sucks the blood of other insects. So named from the curious shape of the prothorax. -- Wheel carriage, a carriage moving on wheels. -- Wheel chains, or Wheel ropes (Naut.), the chains or ropes connecting the wheel and rudder. -- Wheel cutter, a machine for shaping the cogs of gear wheels; a gear cutter. -- Wheel horse, one of the horses nearest to the wheels, as opposed to a leader, or forward horse; -- called also wheeler. -- Wheel lathe, a lathe for turning railway-car wheels. -- Wheel lock. (a) A letter lock. See under Letter. (b) A kind of gunlock in which sparks were struck from a flint, or piece of iron pyrites, by a revolving wheel. (c) A kind of brake a carriage. -- Wheel ore (Min.), a variety of bournonite so named from the shape of its twin crystals. See Bournonite. -- Wheel pit (Steam Engine), a pit in the ground, in which the lower part of the fly wheel runs. -- Wheel plow, or Wheel plough, a plow having one or two wheels attached, to render it more steady, and to regulate the depth of the furrow. -- Wheel press, a press by which railway-car wheels are forced on, or off, their axles. -- Wheel race, the place in which a water wheel is set. -- Wheel rope (Naut.), a tiller rope. See under Tiller. -- Wheel stitch (Needlework), a stitch resembling a spider's web, worked into the material, and not over an open space. Caulfeild & S. (Dict. of Needlework). -- Wheel tree (Bot.), a tree (Aspidosperma excelsum) of Guiana, which has a trunk so curiously fluted that a transverse section resembles the hub and spokes of a coarsely made wheel. See Paddlewood. -- Wheel urchin (Zoöl.), any sea urchin of the genus Rotula having a round, flat shell. -- Wheel window (Arch.), a circular window having radiating mullions arranged like the spokes of a wheel. Cf. Rose window, under Rose. WHEEL Wheel, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Wheeled; p. pr. & vb. n. Wheeling.] 1. To convey on wheels, or in a wheeled vehicle; as, to wheel a load of hay or wood. 2. To put into a rotatory motion; to cause to turn or revolve; to cause to gyrate; to make or perform in a circle. "The beetle wheels her droning flight." Gray. Now heaven, in all her glory, shone, and rolled Her motions, as the great first mover's hand First wheeled their course. Milton. WHEEL Wheel, v. i. 1. To turn on an axis, or as on an axis; to revolve; to more about; to rotate; to gyrate. The moon carried about the earth always shows the same face to us, not once wheeling upon her own center. Bentley. 2. To change direction, as if revolving upon an axis or pivot; to turn; as, the troops wheeled to the right. Being able to advance no further, they are in a fair way to wheel about to the other extreme. South. 3. To go round in a circuit; to fetch a compass. Then wheeling down the steep of heaven he flies. Pope. 4. To roll forward. Thunder mixed with hail, Hail mixed with fire, must rend the Egyptian sky, And wheel on the earth, devouring where it rolls. Milton. WHEELBAND Wheel"band`, n. Defn: The tire of a wheel. WHEELBARROW Wheel"bar`row, n. Defn: A light vehicle for conveying small loads. It has two handles and one wheel, and is rolled by a single person. WHEEL BASE Wheel base. Defn: The figure inclosed by lines through the points contact of the wheels of a vehicle, etc., with the surface or rails on which they run; more esp., the length of this figure between the points of contact of the two extreme wheels on either side. WHEELBIRD Wheel"bird`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: The European goatsucker. [Prov. Eng.] WHEELED Wheeled, a. Defn: Having wheels; -- used chiefly in composition; as, a four- wheeled carriage. WHEELER Wheel"er, n. 1. One who wheels, or turns. 2. A maker of wheels; a wheelwright. [Obs.] 3. A wheel horse. See under Wheel. 4. (Naut.) Defn: A steam vessel propelled by a paddle wheel or by paddle wheels; -- used chiefly in the terms side-wheeler and stern-wheeler. 5. A worker on sewed muslin. [Eng.] 6. (Zoöl.) Defn: The European goatsucker. [Prov. Eng.] WHEELHOUSE Wheel"house`, n. (Naut.) (a) A small house on or above a vessel's deck, containing the steering wheel. (b) A paddle box. See under Paddle. WHEELING Wheel"ing, n. 1. The act of conveying anything, or traveling, on wheels, or in a wheeled vehicle. 2. The act or practice of using a cycle; cycling. 3. Condition of a road or roads, which admits of passing on wheels; as, it is good wheeling, or bad wheeling. 4. A turning, or circular movement. WHEELMAN Wheel"man, n.; pl. Wheelmen (. Defn: One who rides a bicycle or tricycle; a cycler, or cyclist. WHEEL OF FORTUNE Wheel of fortune. Defn: A gambling or lottery device consisting of a wheel which is spun horizontally, articles or sums to which certain marks on its circumference point when it stops being distributed according to varying rules. WHEEL-SHAPED Wheel"-shaped`, a. 1. Shaped like a wheel. 2. (Bot.) Defn: Expanding into a flat, circular border at top, with scarcely any tube; as, a wheel-shaped corolla. WHEELSWARF Wheel"swarf`, n. Defn: See Swarf. WHEELWORK Wheel"work`, n. (Mach.) Defn: A combination of wheels, and their connection, in a machine or mechanism. WHEEL-WORN Wheel"-worn`, a. Defn: Worn by the action of wheels; as, a wheel-worn road. WHEELWRIGHT Wheel"wright`, n. Defn: A man whose occupation is to make or repair wheels and wheeled vehicles, as carts, wagons, and the like. WHEELY Wheel"y, a. Defn: Circular; suitable to rotation. WHEEN Wheen, n. Etym: [Cf. AS. hw, hw, a little, somewhat, hw little, few.] Defn: A quantity; a goodly number. [Scot.] "A wheen other dogs." Sir W. Scott. WHEEZE Wheeze, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Wheezed; p. pr. & vb. n. Wheezing.] Etym: [OE. whesen, AS. hwsan (cf. Icel. hvæsa to hiss, Sw. hväsa, Dan. hvæse); akin