[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

pl. Itineraries. Etym: [L. itinerarium: cf. F. itinéraire. See Itinerary, a.] Defn: An account of travels, or a register of places and distances as a guide to travelers; as, the Itinerary of Antoninus. ITINERATE I*tin"er*ate. v. i. [imp. & p. p. Itinerated; p. pr. & vb. n. Itinerating.] Etym: [LL. itineratus, p. p. of itinerari, itinerare. See Itinerant.] Defn: To wander without a settled habitation; to travel from place or on a circuit, particularly for the purpose of preaching, lecturing, etc. -ITIS -i"tis, Etym: [Gr. Defn: A suffix used in medical terms to denote an inflammatory disease of; as, arthritis; bronchitis, phrenitis. ITS Its. Defn: Possessive form of the pronoun it. See It. ITSELF It*self", pron. Defn: The neuter reciprocal pronoun of It; as, the thing is good in itself; it stands by itself. Borrowing of foreigners, in itself, makes not the kingdom rich or poor. Locke. ITTRIA It"tri*a, n. Etym: [NL.] Defn: See Yttria. ITTRIUM It"tri*um, n. Etym: [NL.] Defn: See Yttrium. ITZIBU It"zi*bu, n. Etym: [Jap. ichibu.] (Numis.) Defn: A silver coin of Japan, worth about thirty-four cents. [Written also itzebu, ichebu, itcheboo, etc.] IULIDAN I*u"li*dan, n. Etym: [See Iulus.] (Zoöl.) Defn: One of the Iulidæ, a family of myriapods, of which the genus Iulus is the type. See Iulus. IULUS I*u"lus, n. Etym: [L., down, Gr. (Zoöl.) Defn: A genus of chilognathous myriapods. The body is long and round, consisting of numerous smooth, equal segments, each of which bears two pairs of short legs. It includes the galleyworms. See Chilognatha. IVAN IVANOVITCH I*van" I*van"o*vitch Defn: . An ideal personification of the typical Russian or of the Russian people; -- used as "John Bull" is used for the typical Englishman. I'VE I've Defn: . Colloquial contraction of I have. -IVE -ive. Etym: [L. -ivus.] Defn: An adjective suffix signifying relating or belonging to, of the nature of, tending to; as affirmative, active, conclusive, corrective, diminutive. IVIED I"vied, a. Etym: [From Ivy.] Defn: Overgrown with ivy. IVORIDE I"vo*ride, n. Defn: A composition resembling ivory in appearance and used as a substitute for it. IVORY I"vo*ry, n.; pl. Ivories. Etym: [OE. ivori, F. ivoire, fr. L. eboreus made of ivory, fr. ebur, eboris, ivory, cf. Skr. ibha elephant. Cf. Eburnean.] 1. The hard, white, opaque, fine-grained substance constituting the tusks of the elephant. It is a variety of dentine, characterized by the minuteness and close arrangement of the tubes, as also by their double flexure. It is used in manufacturing articles of ornament or utility. Note: Ivory is the name commercially given not only to the substance constituting the tusks of the elephant, but also to that of the tusks of the hippopotamus and walrus, the hornlike tusk of the narwhal, etc. 2. The tusks themselves of the elephant, etc. 3. Any carving executed in ivory. Mollett. 4. pl. Defn: Teeth; as, to show one's ivories. [Slang] Ivory black. See under Black, n. -- Ivory gull (Zoöl.), a white Arctic gull (Larus eburneus). -- Ivory nut (Bot.), the nut of a species of palm, the Phytephas macroarpa, often as large as a hen's egg. When young the seed contains a fluid, which gradually hardness into a whitish, close- grained, albuminous substance, resembling the finest ivory in texture and color, whence it is called vegetable ivory. It is wrought into various articles, as buttons, chessmen, etc. The palm is found in New Grenada. A smaller kind is the fruit of the Phytephas microarpa. The nuts are known in commerce as Corosso nuts. -- Ivory palm (Bot.), the palm tree which produces ivory nuts. -- Ivory shell (Zoöl.), any species of Eburna, a genus of marine gastropod shells, having a smooth surface, usually white with red or brown spots. -- Vegetable ivory, the meat of the ivory nut. See Ivory nut (above). IVORY-BILL I"vo*ry-bill`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: A large, handsome, North American woodpecker (Campephilus principalis), having a large, sharp, ivory-colored beak. Its general color is glossy black, with white secondaries, and a white dorsal stripe. The male has a large, scarlet crest. It is now rare, and found only in the Gulf States. IVORYTYPE I"vo*ry*type`, n. (photog.) Defn: A picture produced by superposing a very light print, rendered translucent by varnish, and tinted upon the back, upon a stronger print, so as to give the effect of a photograph in natural colors; -- called also hellenotype. Knight. IVY I"vy, n.; pl. Ivies. Etym: [AS. ifig; akin to OHG. ebawi, ebah, G. epheu.] (Bot.) Defn: A plant of the genus Hedera (H. helix), common in Europe. Its leaves are evergreen, dark, smooth, shining, and mostly five-pointed; the flowers yellowish and small; the berries black or yellow. The stem clings to walls and trees by rootlike fibers. Direct The clasping ivy where to climb. Milton. Ye myrtles brown, with ivy never sere. Milton. American ivy. (Bot.) See Virginia creeper. -- English ivy (Bot.), a popular name in America for the ivy proper (Hedera helix). -- German ivy (Bot.), a creeping plant, with smooth, succulent stems, and fleshy, light-green leaves; a species of Senecio (S. scandens). -- Ground ivy. (Bot.) Gill (Nepeta Glechoma). -- Ivy bush. (Bot.) See Mountain laurel, under Mountain. -- Ivy owl (Zoöl.), the barn owl. -- Ivy tod (Bot.), the ivy plant. Tennyson. -- Japanese ivy (Bot.), a climbing plant (Ampelopsis tricuspidata), closely related to the Virginia creeper. -- Poison ivy (Bot.), an American woody creeper (Rhus Toxicodendron), with trifoliate leaves, and greenish-white berries. It is exceedingly poisonous to the touch for most persons. -- To pipe in an ivy leaf, to console one's self as best one can. [Obs.] Chaucer. -- West Indian ivy, a climbing plant of the genus Marcgravia. IVY-MANTLED I"vy-man`tled, a. Defn: Covered with ivy. IWIS I*wis", adv. Defn: Indeed; truly. See Ywis. [Written also iwys, iwisse, etc.] [Obs.] Ascham. I. W. W. I. W. W. (Abbrev.) Defn: Industrial Workers of the World (the name of two American labor organizations, one of which advocates syndicalism). IXIA Ix"i*a, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Bot.) Defn: A South African bulbous plant of the Iris family, remarkable for the brilliancy of its flowers. IXODES Ix*o"des, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.) Defn: A genus of parasitic Acarina, which includes various species of ticks. See Tick, the insect. IXODIAN Ix*o"di*an, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: A tick of the genus Ixodes, or the family Ixodidæ. IXTLE; IXTLI Ix"tle, Ix"tli, n. (Bot.) Defn: A Mexican name for a variety of Agave rigida, which furnishes a strong coarse fiber; also, the fiber itself, which is called also pita, and Tampico fiber. [Written also istle.] IXTLE; IXTIL Ix"tle Ix"til, n. Defn: The fine, soft fiber of the bromeliaceous plant Bromelia sylvestris. IZARD Iz"ard, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: A variety of the chamois found in the Pyrenees. -IZE -ize. Etym: [F. -iser, L. -izare, Gr. Defn: A verb suffix signifying to make, to do, to practice; as apologize, baptize, theorize, tyrannize. Note: In the case of certain words the spelling with -ise (after analogy with F. -iser) is the usual form; as, catechise, criticise. With regard to most words, however, which have this suffix there is a diversity of usage, some authorities spelling -ise, others (as in this book) -ize. IZEDI Iz"e*di, n. Defn: One of an Oriental religious sect which worships Satan or the Devil. The Izedis or Yezdis, the so-called Devil worshipers, still remain a numerous though oppressed people in Mesopotamia and adjacent countries. Tylor. IZEDISM Iz"e*dism, n. Defn: The religion of the Izedis. IZZARD Iz"zard, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: See Izard. IZZARD Iz"zard, n. Etym: [Formerly ezed, prob. fr. F. et zÉde and z.] Defn: The letter z; -- formerly so called. J Defn: . J is the tenth letter of the English alphabet. It is a later variant form of the Roman letter I, used to express a consonantal sound, that is, originally, the sound of English y in yet. The forms J and I have, until a recent time, been classed together, and they have been used interchangeably. Note: In medical prescriptions j is still used in place of i at the end of a number, as a Roman numeral; as, vj, xij. J is etymologically most closely related to i, y, g; as in jot, iota; jest, gesture; join, jugular, yoke. See I. J is a compound vocal consonant, nearly equivalent in sound to dzh. It is exactly the same as g in gem. See Guide to Pronunciation, §§ 179, 211, 239. JAAL GOAT Jaal" goat`. (Zoöl.) Defn: A species of wild goat (Capra Nubiana) found in the mountains of Abyssinia, Upper Egypt, and Arabia; -- called also beden, and jaela. JAB Jab, v. t. Etym: [Cf. Job.] Defn: To thrust; to stab; to punch. See Job, v. t. [Scot. & Colloq. U. S.] JAB Jab, n. Defn: A thrust or stab. [Scot. & Colloq. U. S.] JABBER Jab"ber, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Jabbered; p. pr. & vb. n. Jabbering.] Etym: [Cf. Gibber, Gabble.] Defn: To talk rapidly, indistinctly, or unintelligibly; to utter gibberish or nonsense; to chatter. Swift. JABBER Jab"ber,