[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

pier suspended by chain. -- Chain pipe (Naut.), an opening in the deck, lined with iron, through which the cable is passed into the lockers or tiers. -- Chain plate (Shipbuilding), one of the iron plates or bands, on a vessel's side, to which the standing rigging is fastened. -- Chain pulley, a pulley with depressions in the periphery of its wheel, or projections from it, made to fit the links of a chain. -- Chain pumps. See in the Vocabulary. -- Chain rule (Arith.), a theorem for solving numerical problems by composition of ratios, or compound proportion, by which, when several ratios of equality are given, the consequent of each being the same as the antecedent of the next, the relation between the first antecedent and the last consequent is discovered. -- Chain shot (Mil.), two cannon balls united by a shot chain, formerly used in naval warfare on account of their destructive effect on a ship's rigging. -- Chain stitch. See in the Vocabulary. -- Chain timber. (Arch.) See Bond timber, under Bond. -- Chain wales. (Naut.) Same as Channels. -- Chain wheel. See in the Vocabulary. -- Closed chain, Open chain (Chem.), terms applied to the chemical structure of compounds whose rational formulæ are written respectively in the form of a closed ring (see Benzene nucleus, under Benzene), or in an open extended form. -- Endless chain, a chain whose ends have been united by a link. CHAIN Chain, v. t. [imp. p. p. Chained (chand); p. pr. & vb. n. Chaining.] 1. To fasten, bind, or connect with a chain; to fasten or bind securely, as with a chain; as, to chain a bulldog. Chained behind the hostile car. Prior. 2. To keep in slavery; to enslave. And which more blest who chained his country, say Or he whose virtue sighed to lose a day Pope. 3. To unite closely and strongly. And in this vow do chain my soul to thine. Shak. 4. (Surveying) Defn: To measure with the chain. 5. To protect by drawing a chain across, as a harbor. CHAINLESS Chain"less, a. Defn: Having no chain; not restrained or fettered. "The chainless mind." Byron. CHAINLET Chain"let, n. Defn: A small chain. Sir W. Scott. CHAIN PUMP Chain" pump`. Defn: A pump consisting of an endless chain, running over a drum or wheel by which it is moved, and dipping below the water to be raised. The chain has at intervals disks or lifts which fit the tube through which the ascending part passes and carry the water to the point of discharge. CHAIN STITCH Chain" stitch`. 1. An ornamental stitch like the links of a chain; -- used in crocheting, sewing, and embroidery. 2. (Machine Sewing) Defn: A stitch in which the looping of the thread or threads forms a chain on the under side of the work; the loop stitch, as distinguished from the lock stitch. See Stitch. CHAIN TIE Chain tie. (Arch.) Defn: A tie consisting of a series of connected iron bars or rods. CHAIN WHEEL Chain" wheel`. 1. A chain pulley, or sprocket wheel. 2. An inversion of the chain pump, by which it becomes a motor driven by water. CHAINWORK Chain"work`, n. Defn: Work looped or linked after the manner of a chain; chain stitch work. CHAIR Chair, n. Etym: [OE. chaiere, chaere, OF. chaiere, chaere, F. chaire pulpit, fr. L. cathedra chair, armchair, a teacher's or professor's chair, Gr. sit. See Sit, and cf. Cathedral, chaise.] 1. A movable single seat with a back. 2. An official seat, as of a chief magistrate or a judge, but esp. that of a professor; hence, the office itself. The chair of a philosophical school. Whewell. A chair of philology. M. Arnold. 3. The presiding officer of an assembly; a chairman; as, to address the chair. 4. A vehicle for one person; either a sedan borne upon poles, or two- wheeled carriage, drawn by one horse; a gig. Shak. Think what an equipage thou hast in air, And view with scorn two pages and a chair. Pope. 5. An iron blok used on railways to support the rails and secure them to the sleepers. Chair days, days of repose and age. -- To put into the chair, to elect as president, or as chairman of a meeting. Macaulay. -- To take the chair, to assume the position of president, or of chairman of a meeting. CHAIR Chair, v. t. [imp. & p. pr. Chaired; p. pr. & vb. n. Chairing.] 1. To place in a chair. 2. To carry publicly in a chair in triumph. [Eng.] CHAIRMAN Chair"man, n.; pl. Chairmen (. 1. The presiding officer of a committee, or of a public or private meeting, or of any organized body. 2. One whose business it is to cary a chair or sedan. Breaks watchmen's heads and chairmen's glasses. Prior. CHAIRMANSHIP Chair"man*ship, n. Defn: The office of a chairman of a meeting or organized body. CHAISE Chaise, n. Etym: [F. chaise seat, or chair, chaise or carriage, for chaire, from a peculiar Parisian pronunciation. See Chair.] 1. A two-wheeled carriage for two persons, with a calash top, and the body hung on leather straps, or thoroughbraces. It is usually drawn by one horse. 2. Loosely, Defn: a carriage in general. Cowper. CHAJA Cha"ja, n. Etym: [Native name.] (Zoöl.) Defn: The crested screamer of Brazil (Palamedea, or Chauna, chavaria), so called in imitation of its notes; -- called also chauna, and faithful kamichi. It is often domesticated and is useful in guarding other poultry. See Kamichi. CHAK Chak, v. i. Defn: To toss up the head frequently, as a horse to avoid the restraint of the bridle. CHALAZA Cha*la"za, n.; pl. E. Chalazas, L. Chalazæ. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. 1. (Bot.) Defn: The place on an ovule, or seed, where its outer coats cohere with each other and the nucleus. 2. (Biol.) Defn: A spiral band of thickened albuminous substance which exists in the white of the bird's egg, and serves to maintain the yolk in its position; the treadle. CHALAZAL Cha*la"zal, a. Defn: Of or pertaining to the chalaza. CHALAZE Cha*laze", n. Defn: Same as Chalaza. CHALAZIFEROUS Chal`a*zif"er*ous, a. Etym: [Chalaza + -ferous.] Defn: Having or bearing chalazas. CHALAZION Cha*la"zi*on, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.) Defn: A small circumscribed tumor of the eyelid caused by retention of secretion, and by inflammation of the Melbomian glands. CHALAZOGAMY Chal`a*zog"a*my, n. [Chalaza + -gamy, as in polygamy.] (Bot.) Defn: A process of fecundation in which the pollen tube penetrates to the embryosac through the tissue of the chalaza, instead of entering through the micropyle. It was originally discovered by Treub in Casuarina, and has since been found to occur regularly in the families Betulaceæ and Juglandaceæ. Partial chalazogamy is found in Ulmus, the tube here penetrating the nucleus midway between the chalaza and micropyle. --Chal`a*zo*gam"ic (#), a. CHALCANTHITE Chal*can"thite, n. Etym: [L. chalcanthum a solution of blue vitriol, Gr. (Min.) Defn: Native blue vitriol. See Blue vitriol, under Blue. CHALCEDONIC Chal"ce*don"ic, a. Defn: Of or pertaining to chalcedony. CHALCEDONY Chal*ced"o*ny, n.; pl. Chalcedonies. Etym: [ L. chalcedonius, fr. Gr. calcédoine, OE. calcidoine, casidoyne. Cf. Cassidony.] (Min.) Defn: A cryptocrystalline, translucent variety of quartz, having usually a whitish color, and a luster nearly like wax. [Written also calcedony.] Note: When chalcedony is variegated with with spots or figures, or arranged in differently colored layers, it is called agate; and if by reason of the thickness, color, and arrangement of the layers it is suitable for being carved into cameos, it is called onyx. Chrysoprase is green chalcedony; carnelian, a flesh red, and sard, a brownish red variety. CHALCHIHUITL Chal`chi*huitl, n. (Min.) Defn: The Mexican name for turquoise. See Turquoise. CHALCID FLY Chal"cid fly`. Etym: [From Gr. (Zoöl.) Defn: One of a numerous family of hymenopterous insects (Chalcididæ. Many are gallflies, others are parasitic on insects. CHALCIDIAN Chal*cid"i*an, n. Etym: [L. chalcis a lizard, Gr. (Zoöl.) Defn: One of a tropical family of snakelike lizards (Chalcidæ), having four small or rudimentary legs. CHALCOCITE Chal"co*cite, n. Etym: [Gr. (Min.) Defn: Native copper sulphide, called also copper glance, and vitreous copper; a mineral of a black color and metallic luster. [Formerly written chalcosine.] CHALCOGRAPHER; CHALCOGRAPHIST Chal*cog"ra*pher, Chal*cog"ra*phist, n. Defn: An engraver on copper or brass; hence, an engraver of copper plates for printing upon paper. CHALCOGRAPHY Chal*cog"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Gr. -graphy.] Defn: The act or art of engraving on copper or brass, especially of engraving for printing. CHALCOPYRITE Chal`co*pyr"ite, n. Etym: [Gr. pyrite. So named from its color.] (Min.) Defn: Copper pyrites, or yellow copper ore; a common ore of opper, containing copper, iron, and sulphur. It occurs massive and in tetragonal crystals of a bright brass yellow color. CHALDAIC Chal*da"ic, a. Etym: [L. Chaldaicus.] Defn: Of or pertaining to Chaldes. -- n. Defn: The language or dialect of the Chaldeans; Chaldee. CHALDAISM Chal"da*ism, n. Defn: An idiom or peculiarity in the Chaldee dialect. CHALDEAN Chal*de"an, a. Etym: [L. Chaldaeus.] Defn: Of or pertaining to Chaldea.