[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

eat books. -- Book oath, an oath made on The Book, or Bible. -- The Book of Books, the Bible. -- Book post, a system under which books, bulky manuscripts, etc., may be transmitted by mail. -- Book scorpion (Zoöl.), one of the false scorpions (Chelifer cancroides) found among books and papers. It can run sidewise and backward, and feeds on small insects. -- Book stall, a stand or stall, often in the open air, for retailing books. -- Canonical books. See Canonical. -- In one's books, in one's favor. "I was so much in his books, that at his decease he left me his lamp." Addison. -- To bring to book. (a) To compel to give an account. (b) To compare with an admitted authority. "To bring it manifestly to book is impossible." M. Arnold. -- To course by bell, book, and candle. See under Bell. -- To make a book (Horse Racing), to lay bets (recorded in a pocket book) against the success of every horse, so that the bookmaker wins on all the unsuccessful horses and loses only on the winning horse or horses. -- To speak by the book, to speak with minute exactness. -- Without book. (a) By memory. (b) Without authority. BOOK Book, v. t. [imp & p. p. Booked; p. pr. & vb. n. Booking.] 1. To enter, write, or register in a book or list. Let it be booked with the rest of this day's deeds. Shak. 2. To enter the name of (any one) in a book for the purpose of securing a passage, conveyance, or seat; as, to be booked for Southampton; to book a seat in a theater. 3. To mark out for; to destine or assign for; as, he is booked for the valedictory. [Colloq.] Here I am booked for three days more in Paris. Charles Reade. BOOKBINDER Book"bind`er, n. Defn: One whose occupation is to bind books. BOOKBINDERY Book"bind`er*y, n. Defn: A bookbinder's shop; a place or establishment for binding books. BOOKBINDING Book"bind`ing, n. Defn: The art, process, or business of binding books. BOOKCASE Book"case` (, n. Defn: A case with shelves for holding books, esp. one with glazed doors. BOOKCRAFT Book"craft`, n. Defn: Authorship; literary skill. BOOKED Booked, a. 1. Registered. 2. On the way; destined. [Colloq.] BOOKER Book"er, n. Defn: One who enters accounts or names, etc., in a book; a bookkeeper. BOOKFUL Book"ful, n. Defn: As much as will fill a book; a book full. Shak. -- a. Defn: Filled with book learning. [R.] "The bookful blockhead." Pope. BOOKHOLDER Book"hold`er, n. 1. A prompter at a theater. [Obs.] Beau & Fl. 2. A support for a book, holding it open, while one reads or copies from it. BOOKING CLERK Book"ing clerk`. Defn: A clerk who registers passengers, baggage, etc., for conveyance, as by railway or steamship, or who sells passage tickets at a booking office. BOOKING OFFICE Book"ing of`fice. 1. An office where passengers, baggage, etc., are registered for conveyance, as by railway or steamship. 2. An office where passage tickets are sold. [Eng.] BOOKISH Book"ish, a. 1. Given to reading; fond of study; better acquainted with books than with men; learned from books. "A bookish man." Addison. "Bookish skill." Bp. Hall. 2. Characterized by a method of expression generally found in books; formal; labored; pedantic; as, a bookish way of talking; bookish sentences. -- Book"ish*ly, adv. -- Book"ish*ness, n. BOOKKEEPER Book"keep`er, n. Defn: One who keeps accounts; one who has the charge of keeping the books and accounts in an office. BOOKKEEPING Book"keep`ing, n. Defn: The art of recording pecuniary or business transactions in a regular and systematic manner, so as to show their relation to each other, and the state of the business in which they occur; the art of keeping accounts. The books commonly used are a daybook, cashbook, journal, and ledger. See Daybook, Cashbook, Journal, and Ledger. Bookkeeping by single entry, the method of keeping books by carrying the record of each transaction to the debit or credit of a single account. -- Bookkeeping by double entry, a mode of bookkeeping in which two entries of every transaction are carried to the ledger, one to the Dr., or left hand, side of one account, and the other to the Cr., or right hand, side of a corresponding account, in order thaItalian method. BOOKLAND; BOCKLAND Book"land`, Bock"land`, n. Etym: [AS. b; b book + land land.] (O. Eng. Law) Defn: Charter land held by deed under certain rents and free services, which differed in nothing from free socage lands. This species of tenure has given rise to the modern freeholds. BOOK-LEARNED Book"-learned`, a. Defn: Versed in books; having knowledge derived from books. [Often in a disparaging sense.] Whate'er these book-learned blockheads say, Solon's the veriest fool in all the play. Dryden. BOOKLESS Book"less, a. Defn: Without books; unlearned. Shenstone. BOOKLET Book"let, n. Defn: A little book. T. Arnold. BOOKMAKER Book"mak`er, n. 1. One who writes and publishes books; especially, one who gathers his materials from other books; a compiler. 2. (Horse Racing) Defn: A betting man who "makes a book." See To make a book, under Book, n. BOOKMAN Book"man, n.; pl. Bookmen (. Defn: A studious man; a scholar. Shak. BOOKMARK Book"mark`, n. Defn: Something placed in a book to guide in finding a particular page or passage; also, a label in a book to designate the owner; a bookplate. BOOKMATE Book"mate`, n. Etym: [Book + mate.] Defn: A schoolfellow; an associate in study. BOOKMONGER Book"mon`ger, n. Defn: A dealer in books. BOOK MUSLIN Book" mus`lin. 1. A kind of muslin used for the covers of books. 2. A kind of thin white muslin for ladies' dresses. BOOKPLATE Book"plate`, n. Defn: A label, placed upon or in a book, showing its ownership or its position in a library. BOOKSELLER Book"sell`er, n. Defn: One who sells books. BOOKSELLING Book"sell`ing, n. Defn: The employment of selling books. BOOKSHELF Book"shelf`, n.; pl. Bookshelves (. Defn: A shelf to hold books. BOOKSHOP Book"shop`, n. Defn: A bookseller's shop. [Eng.] BOOKSTALL Book"stall`, n. Defn: A stall or stand where books are sold. BOOKSTAND Book"stand`, n. 1. A place or stand for the sale of books in the streets; a bookstall. 2. A stand to hold books for reading or reference. BOOKSTORE Book"store`, n. Defn: A store where books are kept for sale; -- called in England a bookseller's shop. BOOKWORK Book"work`, n. 1. Work done upon a book or books (as in a printing office), in distinction from newspaper or job work. 2. Study; application to books. BOOKWORM Book"worm`, n. 1. (Zoöl.) Defn: Any larva of a beetle or moth, which is injurious to books. Many species are known. 2. A student closely attached to books or addicted to study; a reader without appreciation. I wanted but a black gown and a salary to be as mere a bookworm as any there. Pope. BOOKY Book"y, a. Defn: Bookish. BOOLY Boo"ly, n.; pl. Boolies. Etym: [Ir. buachail cowherd; bo cow + giolla boy.] Defn: A company of Irish herdsmen, or a single herdsman, wandering from place to place with flocks and herds, and living on their milk, like the Tartars; also, a place in the mountain pastures inclosed for the shelter of cattle or their keepers. [Obs.] [Written also boley, bolye, bouillie.] Spenser. BOOM Boom (boom), n. Etym: [D. boom tree, pole, beam, bar. See Beam.] 1. (Naut.) Defn: A long pole or spar, run out for the purpose of extending the bottom of a particular sail; as, the jib boom, the studding-sail boom, etc. 2. (Mech.) Defn: A long spar or beam, projecting from the mast of a derrick, from the outer end of which the body to be lifted is suspended. 3. A pole with a conspicuous top, set up to mark the channel in a river or harbor. [Obs.] 4. (Mil. & Naval) Defn: A strong chain cable, or line of spars bound together, extended across a river or the mouth of a harbor, to obstruct navigation or passage. 5. (Lumbering) Defn: A line of connected floating timbers stretched across a river, or inclosing an area of water, to keep saw logs, etc., from floating away. Boom iron, one of the iron rings on the yards through which the studding-sail booms traverse. -- The booms, that space on the upper deck of a ship between the foremast and mainmast, where the boats, spare spars, etc., are stowed. Totten. BOOM Boom (boom), v. t. (Naut.) Defn: To extend, or push, with a boom or pole; as, to boom out a sail; to boom off a boat. BOOM Boom (boom), v. i. [imp. & p. p. Boomed, p. pr. & vb. n. Booming.] Etym: [Of imitative origin; cf. OE. bommen to hum, D. bommen to drum, sound as an empty barrel, also W. bwmp a hollow sound; aderyn y bwmp, the bird of the hollow sound, i. e., the bittern. Cf. Bum, Bump, v. i., Bomb, v. i.] 1. To cry with a hollow note;