[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

m Etym: [F.] (Mil.), a sudden and unexpected movement or attack. -- Coup de soleil (k Etym: [F.] (Med.), a sunstroke. See Sunstroke. -- Coup d'état (k Etym: [F.] (Politics), a sudden, decisive exercise of power whereby the existing government is subverted without the consent of the people; an unexpected measure of state, more or less violent; a stroke of policy. -- Coup d'oeil (k. Etym: [F.] (a) A single view; a rapid glance of the eye; a comprehensive view of a scene; as much as can be seen at one view. (b) The general effect of a picture. (c) (Mil.) The faculty or the act of comprehending at a glance the weakness or strength of a military position, of a certain arrangement of troops, the most advantageous position for a battlefield, etc. COUPABLE Cou (k"p-b'l), a. Etym: [F.] Defn: Culpable. [Obs.] COUPE Cou`pé" (k`p"), n. Etym: [F., fr. coupé, p. p. of couper to cut. See Coppice.] 1. The front compartment of a French diligence; also, the front compartment (usually for three persons) of a car or carriage on British railways. 2. A four-wheeled close carriage for two persons inside, with an outside seat for the driver; -- so called because giving the appearance of a larger carriage cut off. COUPED Couped (kpt), a. Etym: [F. couper to cut.] (Her.) Defn: Cut off smoothly, as distinguished from erased; -- used especially for the head or limb of an animal. See Erased. COUPEE Cou*pee" (k-p"; F. k`p), n. Etym: [F. coupé, n., properly p. p. of couper to cut. Cf. Coupé, Coopee.] Defn: A motion in dancing, when one leg is a little bent, and raised from the floor, and with the other a forward motion is made. Chambers. COUPE-GORGE Coupe`-gorge" (kp`grzh"), n. Etym: [F., cut throat.] (Mil.) Defn: Any position giving the enemy such advantage that the troops occupying it must either surrender or be cut to pieces. Farrow. COUPLE Cou"ple (kp"'l), n. Etym: [F. couple, fr. L. copula a bond, band; co- + apere, aptum, ti join. See Art, a., and cf.Copula.] 1. That which joins or links two things together; a bond or tie; a coupler. [Obs.] It is in some sort with friends as it is with dogs in couples; they should be of the same size and humor. L'Estrange. I'll go in couples with her. Shak. 2. Two of the same kind connected or considered together; a pair; a brace. "A couple of shepherds." Sir P. Sidney. "A couple of drops" Adduson. "A couple of miles." Dickens. "A couple of weeks." Carlyle. Adding one to one we have the complex idea of a couple. Locke. [Ziba] met him with a couple of asses saddled. 2 Sam. xvi. 1. 3. A male and female associated together; esp., a man and woman who are married or betrothed. Such were our couple, man and wife. Lloyd. Fair couple linked in happy, nuptial league. Milton. 4. (Arch.) Defn: See Couple-close. 5. (Elec.) Defn: One of the pairs of plates of two metals which compose a voltaic battery; -- called a voltaic couple or galvanic couple. 6. (Mech.) Defn: Two rotations, movements, etc., which are equal in amount but opposite in direction, and acting along parallel lines or around parallel axes. Note: The effect of a couple of forces is to produce a rotation. A couple of rotations is equivalent to a motion of translation. COUPLE Cou"ple, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Coupled (kp"'ld); p. pr. & vb. n. Coupling (-lng).] Etym: [F. coupler, fr. L. copulare. See Couple, n., and cf. Copulate, Cobble, v. ] 1. To link or tie, as one thing to another; to connect or fasten together; to join. Huntsman, I charge thee, tender well my hounds, . . . And couple Clowder with the deep-mouthed brach. Shak. 2. To join in wedlock; to marry. [Colloq.] A parson who couples all our beggars. Swift. COUPLE Cou"ple, v. i. Defn: To come together as male and female; to copulate. [Obs.] Milton. Bacon. COUPLE-BEGGAR Cou"ple-beg`gar (-bg`gr), n. Defn: One who makes it his business to marry beggars to each other. Swift. COUPLE-CLOSE Cou"ple-close` (kp"-kls`), n.; pl. Couple-closes (-kl 1. (Her.) Defn: A diminutive of the chevron, containing one fourth of its surface. Couple-closes are generally borne one on each side of a chevron, and the blazoning may then be either a chevron between two couple-closes or chevron cottised. 2. (Arch.) Defn: A pair of rafters framed together with a tie fixed at their feet, or with a collar beam. [Engl.] COUPLEMENT Cou"ple*ment (kp"'l-ment), n. Etym: [Cf. OF. couplement.] Defn: Union; combination; a coupling; a pair. [Obs.] Shak. And forth together rode, a goodly couplement. Spenser. COUPLER Coup"ler (kp"lr), n. Defn: One who couples; that which couples, as a link, ring, or shackle, to connect cars. Coupler of an organ, a contrivance by which any two or more of the ranks of keys, or keys and pedals, are connected so as to act together when the organ is played. COUPLET Coup"let (-lt), n. Etym: [F. couplet, dim. of couple. See Couple, n. ] Defn: Two taken together; a pair or couple; especially two lines of verse that rhyme with each other. A sudden couplet rushes on your mind. Crabbe. COUPLING Coup"ling (-lng), n. 1. The act of bringing or coming together; connection; sexual union. 2. (Mach.) Defn: A device or contrivance which serves to couple or connect adjacent parts or objects; as, a belt coupling, which connects the ends of a belt; a car coupling, which connects the cars in a train; a shaft coupling, which connects the ends of shafts. Box coupling, Chain coupling. See under Box, Chain. -- Coupling box, a coupling shaped like a journal box, for clamping together the ends of two shafts, so that they may revolve together. -- Coupling pin, a pin or bolt used in coupling or joining together railroad cars, etc. COUPON Cou"pon (k"pn; F. k`pn"), n. Etym: [F., fr. couper to cut, cut off. See Coppice.] 1. (Com.) Defn: A certificate of interest due, printed at the bottom of transferable bonds (state, railroad, etc.), given for a term of years, designed to be cut off and presented for payment when the interest is due; an interest warrant. 2. A section of a ticket, showing the holder to be entitled to some specified accomodation or service, as to a passage over a designated line of travel, a particular seat in a theater, or the like. COUPSTICK Coup"stick` (koo"stik`), n. [Coup + stick.] Defn: A stick or switch used among some American Indians in making or counting a coup. COUPURE Cou*pure" (k-pr"), n. Etym: [F., fr. couper to cut.] (Fort.) Defn: A passage cut through the glacis to facilitate sallies by the besieged. Wilhelm. COURAGE Cour"age (kr"j;48), n. Etym: [OE. corage heart, mind, will, courage, OF. corage, F. courage, fr. a LL. derivative of L. cor heart. See Heart.] 1. The heart; spirit; temper; disposition. [Obs.] So priketh hem nature in here corages. Chaucer. My lord, cheer up your spirits; our foes are nigh, and this soft courage makes your followers faint. Shak. 2. Heart; inclination; desire; will. [Obs.] Chaucer. I'd such a courage to do him good. Shak. 3. That quality of mind which enables one to encounter danger and difficulties with firmness, or without fear, or fainting of heart; valor; boldness; resolution. The king-becoming graces . . . Devotion, patience, courage, fortitude, I have no relish of them. Shak. Courage that grows from constitution often forsakes a man when he has occasion for it. Addison. Syn. -- Heroism; bravery; intrepidity; valor; gallantry; daring; firmness; hardihood; boldness; dauntlessness; resolution. See Heroism. -- Courage, Bravery, Fortitude, Intrepidity, Gallantry, Valor. Courage is that firmness of spirit and swell of soul which meets danger without fear. Bravery is daring and impetuous courage, like that of one who has the reward continually in view, and displays his courage in daring acts. Fortitude has often been styled "passive courage," and consist in the habit of encountering danger and enduring pain with a steadfast and unbroken spirit. Valor is courage exhibited in war, and can not be applied to single combats; it is never used figuratively. Intrepidity is firm, unshaken courage. Gallantry is adventurous courage, which courts danger with a high and cheerful spirit. A man may show courage, fortitude, or intrepidity in the common pursuits of life, as well as in war. Valor, bravery, and gallantry are displayed in the contest of arms. Valor belongs only to battle; bravery may be shown in single combat; gallantry may be manifested either in attack or defense; but in the latter ease, the defense is usually turned into an attack. COURAGE Cour"age, v. t. Defn: To inspire with courage. [Obs.] Paul writeth unto Timothy . . . to courage him. Tyndale. COURAGEOUS Cour*a"geous (kr-"js), a. Etym: [F. courageux.] Defn: Possessing, or characterized by, courage; brave; bold. With this victory, the women became most courageous and proud, and the men waxed . . . fearful and desperate. Stow. Syn.