[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

ship, Goth. Hrugga a staff.] 1. (Shipbuilding) Defn: A floor timber in a ship. 2. One of the rounds of a ladder. 3. One of the stakes of a cart; a spar; a heavy staff. 4. (Mach.) Defn: One of the radial handles projecting from the rim of a steering wheel; also, one of the pins or trundles of a lantern wheel. RUNGHEAD Rung"head`, n. (Shipbuilding) Defn: The upper end of a floor timber in a ship. RUNIC Ru"nic, a. Defn: Of or pertaining to a rune, to runes, or to the Norsemen; as, runic verses; runic letters; runic names; runic rhyme. Runic staff. See Clog almanac, under Clog. -- Runic wand, a willow wand bearing runes, formerly thought to have been used by the heathen tribes of Northern Europe in magical ceremonies. RUNLET Run"let, n. Etym: [Run + -let.] Defn: A little run or stream; a streamlet; a brook. To trace out to its marshy source every runlet that has cast in its tiny pitcherful with the rest. Lowell. RUNLET Run"let, n. Defn: Same as Rundlet. "A stoup of sack, or a runlet of canary." Sir W. Scott. RUNNEL Run"nel, n. Etym: [From Run. Cf. Rundle.] Defn: A rivulet or small brook. Buddling rundels joined the sound. Collins. By the very sides of the way . . . there are slow runnels, in which one can see the minnows swimming. Masson. RUNNER Run"ner, n. Etym: [From Run.] 1. One who, or that which, runs; a racer. 2. A detective. [Slang, Eng.] Dickens. 3. A messenger. Swift. 4. A smuggler. [Colloq.] R. North. 5. One employed to solicit patronage, as for a steamboat, hotel, shop, etc. [Cant, U.S.] 6. (Bot.) Defn: A slender trailing branch which takes root at the joints or end and there forms new plants, as in the strawberry and the common cinquefoil. 7. The rotating stone of a set of millstones. 8. (Naut.) Defn: A rope through a block and used to increase the mechanical power of a tackle. Totten. 9. One of the pieces on which a sled or sleigh slides; also the part or blade of a skate which slides on the ice. 10. (Founding) (a) A horizontal channel in a mold, through which the metal flows to the cavity formed by the pattern; also, the waste metal left in such a channel. (b) A trough or channel for leading molten metal from a furnace to a ladle, mold, or pig bed. 11. The movable piece to which the ribs of an umbrella are attached. 12. (Zoöl.) Defn: A food fish (Elagatis pinnulatis) of Florida and the West Indies; -- called also skipjack, shoemaker, and yellowtail. The name alludes to its rapid successive leaps from the water. 13. (Zoöl.) Defn: Any cursorial bird. 14. (Mech.) (a) A movable slab or rubber used in grinding or polishing a surface of stone. (b) A tool on which lenses are fastened in a group, for polishing or grinding. RUNNET Run"net, n. Defn: See Rennet. RUNNING Run"ning, a. 1. Moving or advancing by running. Specifically, of a horse; (a) Having a running gait; not a trotter or pacer. (b) trained and kept for running races; as, a running horse. Law. 2. Successive; one following the other without break or intervention; -- said of periods of time; as, to be away two days running; to sow land two years running. 3. Flowing; easy; cursive; as, a running hand. 4. Continuous; keeping along step by step; as, he stated the facts with a running explanation. "A running conquest." Milton. What are art and science if not a running commentary on Nature Hare. 5. (Bot.) Defn: Extending by a slender climbing or trailing stem; as, a running vine. 6. (med.) Defn: Discharging pus; as, a running sore. Running block (Mech.), a block in an arrangement of pulleys which rises or sinks with the weight which is raised or lowered. -- Running board, a narrow platform extending along the side of a locomotive. -- Running bowsprit (Naut.) Same as Reefing bowsprit. -- Running days (Com.), the consecutive days occupied on a voyage under working days. Simmonds. -- Running fire, a constant fire of musketry or cannon. -- Running gear, the wheels and axles of a vehicle, and their attachments, in distinction from the body; all the working parts of a locomotive or other machine, in distinction from the framework. -- Running hand, a style of rapid writing in which the letters are usually slanted and the words formed without lifting the pen; -- distinguished from round hand. -- Running part (Naut.), that part of a rope that is hauled upon, -- in distinction from the standing part. -- Running rigging (Naut.), that part of a ship's rigging or ropes which passes through blocks, etc.; -- is distinction from standing rigging. -- Running title (Print.), the title of a book or chapter continued from page to page on the upper margin. RUNNING Run"ning, n. Defn: The act of one who, or of that which runs; as, the running was slow. 2. That which runs or flows; the quantity of a liquid which flows in a certain time or during a certain operation; as, the first running of a still. 3. The discharge from an ulcer or other sore. At long running, in the long run. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor. RUNNING LOAD Run"ning load. (Aëronautics) (a) The air pressure supported by each longitudinal foot segment of a wing. (b) Commonly, the whole weight of aëroplane and load divided by the span, or length from tip to tip. RUNNINGLY Run"ning*ly, adv. Defn: In a running manner. RUNNION Run"nion n. Defn: See Ronion. RUNOLOGY Ru*nol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Rune + -logy.] Defn: The science of runes. -- Ru*nol"o*gist, n. RUNROUND Run"round`, n. Defn: A felon or whitlow. [Colloq. U.S.] RUNT Runt n. [Written also rant.] Etym: [Scot. runt an old cow. rund a bullock, an ox or Rother, a.] 1. (Zoöl.) Defn: Any animal which is unusually small, as compared with others of its kind; -- applied particulary to domestic animals. 2. (Zoöl.) Defn: A variety of domestic pigeon, related to the barb and carrier. 3. A dwarf; also, a mean, despicable, boorish person; -- used opprobriously. Before I buy a bargain of such runts, I'll buy a college for bears, and live among 'em. Beau. & Fl. 4. The dead stump of a tree; also, the stem of a plant. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. Neither young poles nor old runts are durable. Holland. RUNTY Runt"y, a. Defn: Like a runt; diminutive; mean. RUNWAY Run"way`, n. 1. The channel of a stream. 2. The beaten path made, by deer or other animals in passing to and from their feeding grounds. RUPEE Ru*pee", n. Etym: [Hind.r, fr. Skr. r silver, coined silver or gold, handsome.] Defn: A silver coin, and money of account, in the East Indies. Note: The valuation of the rupee of sixteen annas, the standard coin of India, by the United States Treasury departament, varies from time to time with the price silver. In 1889 it was rated at about thirty- two cents. RUPELLARY Ru"pel*la*ry, n. Etym: [From L. rupes a rock.] Defn: Rocky. [Obs.] "This rupellary nidary." Evelyn. RUPERT'S DROP Ru"pert's drop`. Defn: A kind of glass drop with a long tail, made by dropping melted glass into water. It is remarkable for bursting into fragments when the surface is scratched or the tail broken; -- so called from Prince Rupert, nephew of Charles I., by whom they were first brought to England. Called also Rupert's ball, and glass tear. RUPIA Ru"pi*a, n. Etym: [NL., fr. G. (Med.) Defn: An eruption upon the skin, consisting of vesicles with inflamed base and filled with serous, purulent, or bloody fluid, which dries up, forming a blackish crust. RUPIAL Ru"pi*al, a. Defn: Of or pertaining to rupia. RUPICOLA Ru*pic"o*la, n. Etym: [NL., fr. L. rupes, gen. rupis, a rock + colere to inhabit.] (Zoöl.) Defn: A genus of beautiful South American passerine birds, including the cock of the rock. Note: The species are remarkable for having an elevated fan-shaped crest of feathers on the head, and for the beautiful color of their plumage, which is mostly some delicate shade of yellow or orange. RUPICOLINE Ru*pic"o*line, a. (Zoöl.) Defn: Rock-inhabiting. RUPTION Rup"tion, n. Etym: [L. ruptio, fr. rumpere, ruptum to break.] Defn: A breaking or bursting open; breach; rupture. "By ruption or apertion." Wiseman. RUPTUARY Rup"tu*a*ry, n. Etym: [Cf. Roturier.] Defn: One not of noble blood; a plebeian; a roturier. [R.] The exclusion of the French ruptuaries ("roturiers," for history must find a word for this class when it speaks of other nations) from the order of nobility. Chenevix. RUPTURE Rup"ture, n. Etym: [L. ruptura, fr. rumpere, ruptum to break: cf. F. rupture. See Reave, and cf. Rout a defeat.] 1. The act of breaking apart, or separating; the state of being asunder; as, the rupture of the skin; the rupture of a vessel or fiber; the rupture of a lutestring. Arbuthnot. Hatch from the egg, that soon,