[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #55148]

your wife, for under the guise of a brother's friendship you have treated her just as any of these Boulevard sots and fools would have treated her. Oh, don't talk of Nature and sudden impulse--that is just the argument they would use! You did this thing unpremeditatedly, we will admit. Well, you have your whole life to meditate over the reparation and to make it. Faults of this description are ugly toys made by the devil, and they have to be paid for with either your happiness or your soul. Of course, you can treat her as your mistress; and she, poor child, tossed already about and bruised by the waves of chance, would be content. But would you? Would you be content to thrust still deeper in the mud of life this creature that fate has thrown on your hands? The powers of darkness have surely conspired against this unfortunate being. She, a daughter of the Felicianis, has been dragged in the mire of Paris. Would you be on the side of darkness too?" That was what my heart said against all the arguments of my head. And so it remained. "To-morrow," said I, "I will go to Etiolles, and I will ask Eloise to be my wife." That afternoon, walking in the Rue de Rivoli, I saw Franzius--Franzius, whom I imagined to be at Fauchard's cottage, green leagues away from Paris! He was walking rapidly. I had to run to catch him up; and when he turned his face I saw that he was in trouble. He was without his violin. "Why, Franzius," I cried, "what are you doing here, and what ails you? Have you lost your violin?" "Oh, my friend!" said Franzius. "What ails me? I am in trouble. No, I have not lost my violin, I have forgotten it--it has ceased to be, for me. Ah, yes, there is no more music in life! The birds have ceased singing, the blue sky has gone--Germany calls me back." "Good heavens!" I said. "What's the matter? You haven't left Etiolles for good, have you?" "Oh, no! I am going back for a few days. I came to Paris to-day to seek relief--to hear the streets--to forget----" "To forget what? Come, tell me what has happened." "Not now," said Franzius. "I cannot tell you now. To-morrow I will call on you at your house in the Place Vendôme. Then I will tell you." That was all I could get from him; and off he went, having first wrung both my hands, the tears running down his face so that the passers-by turned to look and wonder at him. "Come early to-morrow," I called out after him as he went. Then I pursued my way home to the Place Vendôme, wondering at the meaning of what I had seen and troubled at heart. CHAPTER XXVIII THE OLD COAT Next morning I sent Joubert to my guardian's apartments with a message craving an interview. It was nine o'clock, and the old gentleman received me in his dressing-room and in his dressing-gown. Beril had just shaved him, and he was examining his rubicund, jovial face in a hand-mirror. The place smelt of Parma violets and shaving-soap. It was like the dressing-room of a duchess, so elaborate were the fittings and so complex the manicure instruments and toilet arrangements set out on the dressing-table. "Leave me, Beril," said the old gentleman, when he had made a little bow to my reflection in the big mirror facing him. Then, taking up a tooth instrument--for, like M. Chateaubriand, he kept on his toilet-table a set of dental instruments with which he doctored his own pearly teeth--he motioned me to take a seat and proceed. "I have come this morning, monsieur, to place my position before you and to tell you of a serious step in life which I have decided to take." "Yes?" replied the Vicomte, tenderly tapping with the little steel instrument on a front tooth, as though he were questioning it as to its health. "You told me once that I was getting myself into a difficult position. Well, as a matter of fact----" "You have?" "Yes, monsieur." Then I told him everything. When I had finished, the old gentleman put away the tooth instrument, folded his dressing-gown more closely round him, and examined contemplatively his hands, of which he was very proud. "The only thing that would have surprised me," said he at last, "would have been if all this had not occurred. Well, now, let us make the best of it. We will assure her future, and she will forget." "Monsieur, I am this morning about to offer Mademoiselle Feliciani my hand in marriage." My guardian, who had been attending to his left-hand little finger with an ivory polisher, turned in his chair and looked at me. He saw I was in earnest. The blow was severe, yet his power of restraint was so great that his face did not alter. Only the hand which held the ivory manicure instrument trembled slightly. "You have decided on this step?" "Absolutely, monsieur." "You know, of course, it will mean your social ruin, and, as you do not love the girl, the ruin of your happiness?" "I am aware of all that, monsieur--bitterly." My guardian sighed, rubbed his chin softly, and, for a moment, seemed plunged in a profound reverie. "I am growing old," said he. "I have no children. I looked upon you almost as a child of mine. I made plans for your future, a magnificent future; I took pleasure to introduce you to my friends, in seeing you well dressed. With the Emperor at your right hand you would have made a very great figure in society, monsieur. Ah, yes, you might have been what you would! And now, in a moment, this has all vanished. Excuse me if I complain. Of course, as you are not of full age I could compel you not to take this step. I could, as a matter of fact, sequestrate you; but I know your spirit, and I am not a believer in brute force. Well, well, what can I say? You come and tell me this thing--your suicide would sadden me less than this marriage which will be your social death. You are a man, and it is not for me to treat you as though you were a child. Think once again on the matter, and then---- Why, then act as your will directs." He rang the bell for Beril to complete his toilet, and I left the room smitten to the heart. His unaffected sadness, his kindness, his straightforwardness would have moved me from my course if anything mortal could have done so. Yet I left the room with my determination unshaken. I was coming down the stairs when a footman accosted me on the first landing. "A person has called to see you, monsieur, and I have shown him into the library." I turned to the library, opened the door, and found myself engulfed in the arms of Franzius. "Mind the violin, mind the violin!" I cried, for he was carrying it, and I felt the bridge snapping against my chest. Then I held him at arm's length. He was radiant, laughing like a boy. He had come from Etiolles, all the way on foot, and all the joy that had been bottled up in him during the twenty-four miles' tramp had burst loose. "And now," I said, laughing, too, from the infection of his gaiety, "what is it?" "Oh, my friend," said Franzius, "she loves me!" "Good heavens! Who?" But you might just as well have questioned the Sud Express going full speed. "Yesterday you saw me--I was in despair. I had not understood aright. She had not understood me. She thought I cared for nothing but my music; she did not know that my music was herself--that her soul had entered into me, that she was me----" "But stay!" I cried, recalling to mind all the women at Etiolles, from Madame Fauchard to Elise, the station-master's pretty daughter; recalling to my mind all but the right one. "But, stay!" "That she was me, that my music was her--that every strand of her golden hair, every motion of her lips, every----" Ah, then it began to dawn on me! "Franzius," I cried, suddenly seizing him by the shoulders, "Franzius, is it Mademoiselle Eloise?" "They call her that," replied the stricken one, "but for me she is my soul." Then I embraced Franzius. It was the first time in my life that I had "embraced" a man French fashion. He and his old violin I took in my arms, nearly crushing them. Fool! fool! Double fool that I was not to have seen it before! Her sadness when I was with her, the way she lighted up when he was near! And I had fancied that she was in love with me! There was a grain of cynical bitterness