[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

gradually and silently eats, consumes, or wastes any other thing. Moth blight (Zoöl.), any plant louse of the genus Aleurodes, and related genera. They are injurious to various plants. -- Moth gnat (Zoöl.), a dipterous insect of the genus Bychoda, having fringed wings. -- Moth hunter (Zoöl.), the goatsucker. -- Moth miller (Zoöl.), a clothes moth. See Miller, 3, (a). -- Moth mullein (Bot.), a common herb of the genus Verbascum (V. Blattaria), having large wheel-shaped yellow or whitish flowers. MOTH-EAT Moth"-eat`, v. t. Defn: To eat or prey upon, as a moth eats a garment. [Rarely used except in the form moth-eaten, p.p. or a.] Ruin and neglect have so moth-eaten her. Sir T. Herbert. MOTHEN Moth"en, a. Defn: Full of moths. [Obs.] Fulke. MOTHER Moth"er, n. Etym: [OE. moder, AS. modor; akin to D. moeder, OS. modar, G. mutter, OHG. muotar, Icel. moedhir, Dan. & Sw. moder, OSlav. mati, Russ. mate, Ir. & Gael. mathair, L. mater, Gr. mh`thr, Skr. matrs; cf. Skr. ma to measure. *268. Cf. Material, Matrix, Metropolis, Father.] 1. A female parent; especially, one of the human race; a woman who has borne a child. 2. That which has produced or nurtured anything; source of birth or origin; generatrix. Alas! poor country! ... it can not Be called our mother, but our grave. Shak. I behold ... the solitary majesty of Crete, mother of a religion, it is said, that lived two thousand years. Landor. 3. An old woman or matron. [Familiar] 4. The female superior or head of a religious house, as an abbess, etc. 5. Hysterical passion; hysteria. [Obs.] Shak. Mother Carey's chicken (Zoöl.), any one of several species of small petrels, as the stormy petrel (Procellaria pelagica), and Leach's petrel (Oceanodroma leucorhoa), both of the Atlantic, and O. furcata of the North Pacific. -- Mother Carey's goose (Zoöl.), the giant fulmar of the Pacific. See Fulmar. -- Mother's mark (Med.), a congenital mark upon the body; a nævus. MOTHER Moth"er, a. Defn: Received by birth or from ancestors; native, natural; as, mother language; also acting the part, or having the place of a mother; producing others; originating. It is the mother falsehood from which all idolatry is derived. T. Arnold. Mother cell (Biol.), a cell which, by endogenous divisions, gives rise to other cells (daughter cells); a parent cell. -- Mother church, the original church; a church from which other churches have sprung; as, the mother church of a diocese. -- Mother country, the country of one's parents or ancestors; the country from which the people of a colony derive their origin. -- Mother liquor (Chem.), the impure or complex residual solution which remains after the salts readily or regularly crystallizing have been removed. -- Mother queen, the mother of a reigning sovereign; a queen mother. -- Mother tongue. (a) A language from which another language has had its origin. (b) The language of one's native land; native tongue. -- Mother water. See Mother liquor (above). -- Mother wit, natural or native wit or intelligence. MOTHER Moth"er, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Mothered; p. pr. & vb. n. Mothering.] Defn: To adopt as a son or daughter; to perform the duties of a mother to. The queen, to have put lady Elizabeth besides the crown, would have mothered another body's child. Howell. MOTHER Moth"er, n. Etym: [Akin to D. modder mud, G. moder mold, mud, Dan. mudder mud, and to E. mud. See Mud.] Defn: A film or membrane which is developed on the surface of fermented alcoholic liquids, such as vinegar, wine, etc., and acts as a means of conveying the oxygen of the air to the alcohol and other combustible principles of the liquid, thus leading to their oxidation. Note: The film is composed of a mass of rapidly developing microörganisms of the genus Mycoderma, and in the mother of vinegar the microörganisms (Mycoderma aceti) composing the film are the active agents in the Conversion of the alcohol into vinegar. When thickened by growth, the film may settle to the bottom of the fluid. See Acetous fermentation, under Fermentation. MOTHER Moth"er, v. i. Defn: To become like, or full of, mother, or thick matter, as vinegar. MOTHERED Moth"ered, a. Defn: Thick, like mother; viscid. They oint their naked limbs with mothered oil. Dryden. MOTHERHOOD Moth"er*hood, n. Defn: The state of being a mother; the character or office of a mother. MOTHERING Moth"er*ing, n. Defn: A rural custom in England, of visiting one's parents on Midlent Sunday, -- supposed to have been originally visiting the mother church to make offerings at the high altar. MOTHER-IN-LAW Moth"er-in-law`, n. Defn: The mother of one's husband or wife. MOTHERLAND Moth"er*land`, n. Defn: The country of one's ancestors; -- same as fatherland. MOTHERLESS Moth"er*less, a. Etym: [AS. modorleás.] Defn: Destitute of a mother; having lost a mother; as, motherless children. MOTHERLINESS Moth"er*li*ness, n. Defn: The state or quality of being motherly. MOTHERLY Moth"er*ly, a. Etym: [AS. modorlic.] Defn: Of or pertaining to a mother; like, or suitable for, a mother; tender; maternal; as, motherly authority, love, or care. Hooker. Syn. -- Maternal; paternal. -- Motherly, Maternal. Motherly, being Anglo-Saxon, is the most familiar word of the two when both have the same meaning. Besides this, maternal is confined to the feelings of a mother toward her own children, whereas motherly has a secondary sense, denoting a care like that of a mother for her offspring. There is, perhaps, a growing tendency thus to separate the two, confining motherly to the latter signification. "They termed her the great mother, for her motherly care in cherishing her brethren whilst young." Sir W. Raleigh. MOTHERLY Moth"er*ly, adv. Defn: In a manner of a mother. MOTHER-NAKED Moth"er-na`ked, a. Defn: Naked as when born. MOTHER-OF-PEARL Moth"er-of-pearl`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: The hard pearly internal layer of several kinds of shells, esp. of pearl oysters, river mussels, and the abalone shells; nacre. See Pearl. MOTHER-OF-THYME Moth"er-of-thyme`, n. (Bot.) Defn: An aromatic plant (Thymus Serphyllum); -- called also wild thyme. MOTHER'S DAY Moth"er's Day. Defn: A day appointed for the honor and uplift of motherhood by the loving remembrance of each person of his mother through the performance of some act of kindness, visit, tribute, or letter. The founder of the day is Anna Jarvis, of Philadelphia, who designated the second Sunday in May, or for schools the second Friday, as the time, and a white carnation as the badge. MOTHERWORT Moth"er*wort`, n. (Bot.) (a) A labiate herb (Leonurus Cardiaca), of a bitter taste, used popularly in medicine; lion's tail. (b) The mugwort. See Mugwort. MOTHERY Moth"er*y, a. Defn: Consisting of, containing, or resembling, mother (in vinegar). MOTHY Moth"y, a. Defn: Infested with moths; moth-eaten. "An old mothy saddle." Shak. MOTIF Mo"tif, n. Etym: [F.] Defn: Motive. MOTIFIC Mo*tif"ic, a. Etym: [L. motus motion (fr. movere to move) + facere to make.] Defn: Producing motion. [R.] MOTILE Mo"tile, a. Etym: [See Motive.] 1. (Biol.) Defn: Having powers of self-motion, though unconscious; as, the motile spores of certain seaweeds. 2. Producing motion; as, motile powers. MOTILITY Mo*til"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. motilité.] (Physiol.) Defn: Capability of motion; contractility. MOTION Mo"tion, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. motio, fr. movere, motum, to move. See Move.] 1. The act, process, or state of changing place or position; movement; the passing of a body from one place or position to another, whether voluntary or involuntary; -- opposed to rest. Speaking or mute, all comeliness and grace attends thee, and each word, each motion, forms. Milton. 2. Power of, or capacity for, motion. Devoid of sense and motion. Milton. 3. Direction of movement; course; tendency; as, the motion of the planets is from west to east. In our proper motion we ascend. Milton. 4. Change in the relative position of the parts of anything; action of a machine with respect to the relative movement of its parts. This is the great wheel to which the clock owes its motion. Dr. H. More. 5. Movement of the mind, desires, or passions; mental act, or impulse to any action; internal activity. Let a good man obey every good motion rising in his heart, knowing that every such motion proceeds from God. South. 6. A proposal or suggestion looking to action or progress; esp., a formal proposal made in a deliberative assembly; as, a motion to adjourn. Yes, I agree, and thank you for your motion. Shak. 7. (Law) Defn: An application made to a court or judge orally in open court. Its object is to obtain an order or rule directing some act to be done in favor of the applicant. Mozley & W. 8. (Mus.) Defn: Change of pitch in successive sounds, whether in the same part or in groups of parts. The independent motions of different parts sounding together constitute counterpoint. Grove. Note: Conjunct motion is that by single degrees of the scale. Contrary motion is that when parts move in opposite directions. Disjunct motion is motion by skips. Oblique motion is that when one part is