[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

radiated; as, (Bot.) radial projections; (Zoöl.) radial vessels or canals; (Anat.) the radial artery. Radial symmetry. (Biol.) See under Symmetry. RADIALE Ra`di*a"le, n.; pl. Radialia. Etym: [NL. See Radial.] 1. (Anat.) Defn: The bone or cartilage of the carpus which articulates with the radius and corresponds to the scaphoid bone in man. 2. pl. (Zoöl.) Defn: Radial plates in the calyx of a crinoid. RADIAL ENGINE Radial engine. (Mach.) Defn: An engine, usually an internal-combustion engine of a certain type (the radial type) having several cylinders arranged radially like the spokes of a complete wheel. The semiradial engine has radiating cylinders on only one side of the crank shaft. RADIALLY Ra"di*al*ly, adv. Defn: In a radial manner. RADIAN Ra"di*an, n. Etym: [From Radius.] (Math.) Defn: An arc of a circle which is equal to the radius, or the angle measured by such an arc. RADIANCE; RADIANCY Ra"di*ance, Ra"di*an*cy, n. Defn: The quality of being radiant; brilliancy; effulgence; vivid brightness; as, the radiance of the sun. Girt with omnipotence, with radiance crowned. Milton. What radiancy of glory, What light beyond compare ! Neale. Syn. -- Luster; brilliancy; splendor; glare; glitter. RADIANT Ra"di*ant, a. Etym: [L. radians, -antis, p. pr. of radiare to emit rays or beams, fr. radius ray: cf. F. radiant. See Radius, Ray a divergent line.] 1. Emitting or proceeding as from a center; [U.S.] rays; radiating; radiate. 2. Especially, emitting or darting rays of light or heat; issuing in beams or rays; beaming with brightness; emitting a vivid light or splendor; as, the radiant sun. Mark what radiant state she spreads. Milton. 3. Beaming with vivacity and happiness; as, a radiant face. 4. (Her.) Defn: Giving off rays; -- said of a bearing; as, the sun radiant; a crown radiant. 5. (Bot.) Defn: Having a raylike appearance, as the large marginal flowers of certain umbelliferous plants; -- said also of the cluster which has such marginal flowers. Radiant energy (Physics), energy given out or transmitted by radiation, as in the case of light and radiant heat. -- Radiant heat, proceeding in right lines, or directly from the heated body, after the manner of light, in distinction from heat conducted or carried by intervening media. -- Radiant point. (Astron.) See Radiant, n., 3. RADIANT Ra"di*ant, n. 1. (Opt.) Defn: The luminous point or object from which light emanates; also, a body radiating light brightly. 2. (Geom.) Defn: A straight line proceeding from a given point, or fixed pole, about which it is conceived to revolve. 3. (Astron.) Defn: The point in the heavens at which the apparent paths of shooting stars meet, when traced backward, or whence they appear to radiate. RADIANT ENGINE Radiant engine. (Mach.) Defn: A semiradial engine. See Radial engine, above. RADIANTLY Ra"di*ant*ly, adv. Defn: In a radiant manner; with glittering splendor. RADIARY Ra"di*a*ry, n. Etym: [Cf. F. radiaire.] (Zoöl.) Defn: A radiate. [Obs.] RADIATA Ra`di*a"ta, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. radiatus, p. p. See Radiate.] (Zoöl.) Defn: An extensive artificial group of invertebrates, having all the parts arranged radially around the vertical axis of the body, and the various organs repeated symmetrically in each ray or spheromere. Note: It includes the coelenterates and the echinoderms. Formerly, the group was supposed to be a natural one, and was considered one of the grand divisions of the animal kingdom. RADIATE Ra"di*ate, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Radiated; p. pr. & vb. n. Radiating.] Etym: [L. radiatus, p. p. of radiare to furnish with spokes or rays, to radiate, fr. radius. See Radius, Ray a divergent line.] 1. To emit rays; to be radiant; to shine. Virtues shine more clear In them [kings], and radiant like the sun at noon. Howell. 2. To proceed in direct lines from a point or surface; to issue in rays, as light or heat. Light radiates from luminous bodies directly to our eyes. Locke. RADIATE Ra"di*ate, v. t. 1. To emit or send out in direct lines from a point or points; as, to radiate heat. 2. To enlighten; to illuminate; to shed light or brightness on; to irradiate. [R.] RADIATE Ra"di*ate, a. Etym: [L. radiatus, p. p.] 1. Having rays or parts diverging from a center; radiated; as, a radiate crystal. 2. (Bot.) Defn: Having in a capitulum large ray florets which are unlike the disk florets, as in the aster, daisy, etc. 3. (Zoöl.) Defn: Belonging to the Radiata. RADIATE Ra"di*ate, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: One of the Radiata. RADIATED Ra"di*a`ted, a. 1. Emitted, or sent forth, in rays or direct lines; as, radiated heat. 2. Formed of, or arranged like, rays or radii; having parts or markings diverging, like radii, from a common center or axis; as, a radiated structure; a radiated group of crystals. 3. (Zoöl.) Defn: Belonging to the Radiata. RADIATELY Ra"di*ate*ly, adv. Defn: In a radiate manner; with radiation or divergence from a center. RADIATE-VEINED Ra"di*ate-veined`, a. (Bot.) Defn: Having the principal veins radiating, or diverging, from the apex of the petiole; -- said of such leaves as those of the grapevine, most maples, and the castor-oil plant. RADIATIFORM Ra`di*at"i*form, a. (Bot.) Defn: Having the marginal florets enlarged and radiating but not ligulate, as in the capitula or heads of the cornflower, Gray. RADIATION Ra`di*a"tion, n. Etym: [L. radiatio: cf. F. radiation.] 1. The act of radiating, or the state of being radiated; emission and diffusion of rays of light; beamy brightness. 2. The shooting forth of anything from a point or surface, like the diverging rays of light; as, the radiation of heat. RADIATIVE Ra"di*a*tive, a. Defn: Capable of radiating; acting by radiation. Tyndall. RADIATOR Ra"di*a`tor, n. Defn: That which radiates or emits rays, whether of light or heat; especially, that part of a heating apparatus from which the heat is radiated or diffused; as, a stream radiator. RADICAL Rad"i*cal, a. Etym: [F., fr. L. radicalis having roots, fr. radix, - icis, a root. See Radix.] 1. Of or pertaining to the root; proceeding directly from the root. 2. Hence: Of or pertaining to the root or origin; reaching to the center, to the foundation to the ultimate sources to the principles, or the like: original; fundamental; thorough-going; unsparing; extreme; as, radical evils; radical reform; a radical party. The most determined exertions of that authority, against them, only showed their radical independence. Burke. 3. (Bot.) (a) Belonging to, or proceeding from, the root of a plant; as, radical tubers or hairs. (b) Proceeding from a rootlike stem, or one which does not rise above the ground; as, the radical leaves of the dandelion and the sidesaddle flower. 4. (Philol.) Defn: Relating, or belonging, to the root, or ultimate source of derivation; as, a radical verbal form. 5. (Math.) Defn: Of or pertaining to a radix or root; as, a radical quantity; a radical sign. See below. Radical axis of two circles. (Geom.) See under Axis. -- Radical pitch, the pitch or tone with which the utterance of a syllable begins. Rush. -- Radical quantity (Alg.), a quantity to which the radical sign is prefixed; specifically, a quantity which is not a perfect power of the degree indicated by the radical sign; a surd. -- Radical sign (Math.), the sign sq. root (originally the letter r, the initial of radix, root), placed before any quantity, denoting that its root is to be extracted; thus, sq. roota, or sq. root(a + b). To indicate any other than the square root, a corresponding figure is placed over the sign; thus cube roota, indicates the third or cube root of a. -- Radical stress (Elocution), force of utterance falling on the initial part of a syllable or sound. -- Radical vessels (Anat.), minute vessels which originate in the substance of the tissues. Syn. -- Primitive; original; natural; underived; fundamental; entire. -- Radical, Entire. These words are frequently employed as interchangeable in describing some marked alternation in the condition of things. There is, however, an obvious difference between them. A radical cure, reform, etc., is one which goes to the root of the thing in question; and it is entire, in the sense that, by affecting the root, it affects in a appropriate degree the entire body nourished by the root; but it may not be entire in the sense of making a change complete in its nature, as well as in its extent. Hence, we speak of a radical change; a radical improvement; radical differences of opinion; while an entire change, an entire improvement, an entire difference of opinion, might indicate more than was actually intended. A certain change may be both radical and entire, in every sense. RADICAL Rad"i*cal, n. 1. (Philol.) (a) A primitive word; a radix, root, or simple, underived, uncompounded word; an etymon. (b) A primitive letter; a letter that belongs to the radix. The words we at present make use of, and understand only by common agreement, assume a new air and life in the understanding, when you trace them to their radicals, where you find every word strongly stamped with nature; full of