[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

(or Vd, rarely). Atomic weight 51.2. VANADIUM BRONZE Va*na"di*um bronze`. (Chem.) Defn: A yellow pigment consisting of a compound of vanadium. VANADOUS Van"a*dous, a. (Chem.) Defn: Of or pertaining to vanadium; obtained from vanadium; -- said of an acid containing one equivalent of vanadium and two of oxygen. VANADYL Van"a*dyl, n. Etym: [Vanadium + -yl.] (Chem.) Defn: The hypothetical radical VO, regarded as a characterized residue of certain vanadium compounds. VAN-COURIER Van"-cou`ri*er, n. Etym: [F. avant-courrier.See Avant, Van of an army, and Courier, and cf. Avant-courier, Vaunt-courier.] Defn: One sent in advance; an avant-courier; a precursor. VANDAL Van"dal, n. Etym: [L. Vandalus, Vandalius; of Teutonic origin, and probably originally signifying, a wanderer. Cf. Wander.] 1. (Anc. Hist.) Defn: One of a Teutonic race, formerly dwelling on the south shore of the Baltic, the most barbarous and fierce of the northern nations that plundered Rome in the 5th century, notorious for destroying the monuments of art and literature. 2. Hence, one who willfully destroys or defaces any work of art or literature. The Vandals of our isle, Sworn foes to sense and law. Cowper. VANDAL; VANDALIC Van"dal, Van*dal"ic, a. Defn: Of or pertaining to the Vandals; resembling the Vandals in barbarism and destructiveness. VANDALISM Van"dal*ism, n. Defn: The spirit or conduct of the Vandals; ferocious cruelty; hostility to the arts and literature, or willful destruction or defacement of their monuments. VANDYKE Van*dyke", a. Defn: Of or pertaining to the style of Vandyke the painter; used or represented by Vandyke. "His Vandyke dress." Macaulay. [Written also Vandyck.] Vandyke brown (Paint.), a pigment of a deep semitranssparent brown color, supposed to be the color used by Vandyke in his pictures. -- Vandyke collar or cape, a broad collar or cape of linen and lace with a deep pointed or scalloped edge, worn lying on the shoulders; - - so called from its appearance in pictures by Vandyke. -- Vandyke edge, an edge having ornamental triangular points. VANDYKE Van*dyke", n. Defn: A picture by Vandyke. Also, a Vandyke collar, or a Vandyke edge. [Written also Vandyck.] VANDYKE Van*dyke", v. t. Defn: fit or furnish with a Vandyke; to form with points or scallops like a Vandyke. [R.] [Written also Vandyck.] VANDYKE BEARD Van*dyke" beard`. Defn: A trim, pointed beard, such as those often seen in pictures by Vandyke. VANE Vane, n. Etym: [OE. & E. Prov. E. fane weathercock, banner, AS. fana a banner, flag; akin to D. vaan, G. fahne, OHG. fano cloth, gund fano flag, Icel. fani, Sw. fana, Dan. fane, Goth. fana cloth, L. pannus, and perhaps to Gr.Fanon, Pane a compartment, panel.] 1. A contrivance attached to some elevated object for the purpose of showing which way the wind blows; a weathercock. It is usually a plate or strip of metal, or slip of wood, often cut into some fanciful form, and placed upon a perpendicular axis around which it moves freely. Aye undiscreet, and changing as a vane. Chaucer. 2. Any flat, extended surface attached to an axis and moved by the wind; as, the vane of a windmill; hence, a similar fixture of any form moved in or by water, air, or other fluid; as, the vane of a screw propeller, a fan blower, an anemometer, etc. 3. (Zoöl.) Defn: The rhachis and web of a feather taken together. 4. One of the sights of a compass, quadrant, etc. Vane of a leveling staff. (Surv.) Same as Target, 3. VANESSA Van*es"sa, n. Etym: [Probably from Swift's poem of Cadenus and Vanessa. See Vanessa, in the Dictionary of Noted Names in Fiction.] (Zoöl.) Defn: Any one of numerous species of handsomely colored butterflies belonging to Vanessa and allied genera. Many of these species have the edges of the wings irregularly scalloped. VANESSIAN Van*es"si*an, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: A vanessa. VANFESS Van"fess`, n. Etym: [F. avant-fossé; avant before + fossé ditch. Cf. Fosse.] (Fort.) Defn: A ditch on the outside of the counterscarp, usually full of water. VANG Vang, n. Etym: [D. vangen to catch, seize. See Fang.] (Naut.) Defn: A rope to steady the peak of a gaff. VANGLO Van"glo, n. (Bot.) Defn: Benne (Sesamum orientale); also, its seeds; -- so called in the West Indies. VANGUARD Van"guard`, n. Etym: [For vantguard, avantguard, F. avant-garde; avant before, fore + garde guard. See Avant, Ab-,Ante-, and Guard, and cf. Advance, Vamp, Van of an army, Vaward.] (Mil.) Defn: The troops who march in front of an army; the advance guard; the van. VANILLA Va*nil"la, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Sp. vainilla, dim. of Sp. vaina a sheath, a pod, L. vagina; because its grains, or seeds, are contained in little pods.] 1. (Bot.) Defn: A genus of climbing orchidaceous plants natives of tropical America. 2. The long podlike capsules of Vanilla planifolia, and V. claviculata, remarkable for their delicate and agreeable odor, for the volatile, odoriferous oil extracted from them; also, the flavoring extract made from the capsules, extensively used in confectionery, perfumery, etc. Note: As a medicine, vanilla is supposed to possess powers analogous to valerian, while, at the same time, it is far more grateful. Cuban vanilla, a sweet-scented West Indian composite shrub (Eupatorium Dalea). -- Vanilla bean, the long capsule of the vanilla plant. -- Vanilla grass. Same as Holy grass, under Holy. VANILLATE Va*nil"late, n. (Chem.) Defn: A salt of vanillic acid. VANILLIC Va*nil"lic, a. (Chem.) Defn: Pertaining to, or derived from, vanilla or vanillin; resembling vanillin; specifically, designating an alcohol and an acid respectively, vanillin being the intermediate aldehyde. VANILLIN Va*nil"lin, n. (Chem.) Defn: A white crystalline aldehyde having a burning taste and characteristic odor of vanilla. It is extracted from vanilla pods, and is also obtained by the decomposition of coniferin, and by the oxidation of eugenol. VANILLOES Va*nil"loes, n. pl. Defn: An inferior kind of vanilla, the pods of Vanilla Pompona. VANILLYL Va*nil"lyl, n. Etym: [Vanillic + -yl.] (Chem.) Defn: The hypothetical radical characteristic of vanillic alcohol. VANILOQUENCE Va*nil"o*quence, n. Etym: [L. vaniloquentia; vanus vain + loquentia talk, loqui to speak.] Defn: Vain or foolish talk. [Obs.] VANISH Van"ish, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Vanished; p. pr. & vb. n. Vanishing.] Etym: [OE. vanissen, OF. vanir (in comp.): cf. OF. envanir, esvanir, esvanuïr, F. s'évanouir; fr. L. vanus empty, vain; cf. L. vanescere, evanescere, to vanish. See Vain, and cf. Evanescent,-ish.] 1. To pass from a visible to an invisible state; to go out of sight; to disappear; to fade; as, vapor vanishes from the sight by being dissipated; a ship vanishes from the sight of spectators on land. The horse vanished . . . out of sight. Chaucer. Go; vanish into air; away! Shak. The champions vanished from their posts with the speed of lightning. Sir W. Scott. Gliding from the twilight past to vanish among realities. Hawthorne. 2. To be annihilated or lost; to pass away. "All these delights will vanish." Milton. VANISH Van"ish, n. (Phon.) Defn: The brief terminal part of vowel or vocal element, differing more or less in quality from the main part; as, a as in ale ordinarily ends with a vanish of i as in ill, o as in old with a vanish of oo as in foot. Rush. Note: The vanish is included by Mr. Bell under the general term glide. VANISHING Van"ish*ing, Defn: a. & n. from Vanish, v. Vanishing fraction (Math.), a fraction which reduces to the form Math. Dict. -- Vanishing line (Persp.), the intersection of the parallel of any original plane and picture; one of the lines converging to the vanishing point. -- Vanishing point (Persp.), the point to which all parallel lines in the same plane tend in the representation. Gwilt. -- Vanishing stress (Phon.), stress of voice upon the closing portion of a syllable. Rush. VANISHMENT Van"ish*ment, n. Defn: A vanishing. [Obs.] VANITY Van"i*ty, n.; pl. Vanities. Etym: [OE. vanite, vanité, L. vanitas, fr. vanus empty, vain. See Vain.] 1. The quality or state of being vain; want of substance to satisfy desire; emptiness; unsubstantialness; unrealness; falsity. Vanity of vanities, saith the Preacher, vanity of vanities; all is vanity. Eccl. i. 2. Here I may well show the vanity of that which is reported in the story of Walsingham. Sir J. Davies. 2. An inflation of mind upon slight grounds; empty pride inspired by an overweening conceit of one's personal attainments or decorations; an excessive desire for notice or approval; pride; ostentation; conceit. The exquisitely sensitive vanity of Garrick was galled. Macaulay. 3. That which is vain; anything empty, visionary, unreal, or unsubstantial; fruitless desire or effort; trifling labor productive of no good; empty pleasure; vain pursuit; idle show; unsubstantial enjoyment. Vanity of vanities, saith the Preacher. Eccl. i. 2. Vanity possesseth many who are desirous to know the certainty of things to come. Sir P. Sidney. [Sin] with vanity had filled the works of men. Milton. Think not, when woman's transient breath is fled, That all her vanities at once are dead; Succeeding vanities she still regards. Pope. 4. One of the established characters in the old moralities and