[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

throat obstructed so as to be in danger of suffocation; to choke; to suffocate. 2. To breathe hard, as when nearly suffocated. THROTTLER Throt"tler, n. 1. One who, or that which, throttles, or chokes. 2. (Zoöl.) Defn: See Flasher, 3 (b). [Prov. Eng.] THROUGH Through, prep. Etym: [OE. thurgh, , , , AS. ; akin to OS. thurh, thuru, OFries. thruch, D. door, OHG. durh, duruh, G. durch, Goth. ; cf. Ir. tri, tre, W. trwy. *53. Cf. Nostril, Thorough, Thrill.] 1. From end to end of, or from side to side of; from one surface or limit of, to the opposite; into and out of at the opposite, or at another, point; as, to bore through a piece of timber, or through a board; a ball passes through the side of a ship. 2. Between the sides or walls of; within; as, to pass through a door; to go through an avenue. Through the gate of ivory he dismissed His valiant offspring. Dryden. 3. By means of; by the agency of. Through these hands this science has passed with great applause. Sir W. Temple. Material things are presented only through their senses. Cheyne. 4. Over the whole surface or extent of; as, to ride through the country; to look through an account. 5. Among or in the midst of; -- used to denote passage; as, a fish swims through the water; the light glimmers through a thicket. 6. From the beginning to the end of; to the end or conclusion of; as, through life; through the year. THROUGH Through, adv. 1. From one end or side to the other; as, to pierce a thing through. 2. From beginning to end; as, to read a letter through. 3. To the end; to a conclusion; to the ultimate purpose; as, to carry a project through. Note: Through was formerly used to form compound adjectives where we now use thorough; as, through-bred; through-lighted; through-placed, etc. To drop through, to fall through; to come to naught; to fail. -- To fall through. See under Fall, v. i. THROUGH Through, a. Defn: Going or extending through; going, extending, or serving from the beginning to the end; thorough; complete; as, a through line; a through ticket; a through train. Also, admitting of passage through; as, a through bridge. Through bolt, a bolt which passes through all the thickness or layers of that which it fastens, or in which it is fixed. -- Through bridge, a bridge in which the floor is supported by the lower chords of the tissues instead of the upper, so that travel is between the trusses and not over them. Cf. Deck bridge, under Deck. -- Through cold, a deep-seated cold. [Obs.] Holland. -- Through stone, a flat gravestone. [Scot.] [Written also through stane.] Sir W. Scott. -- Through ticket, a ticket for the whole journey. -- Through train, a train which goes the whole length of a railway, or of a long route. THROUGHLY Through"ly, adv. Defn: Thoroughly. [Obs.] Bacon. Wash me throughly from mine iniquity. Ps. li. 2. To dare in fields is valor; but how few Dare to be throughly valiant to be true Dryden. THROUGHOUT Through*out", prep. Defn: Quite through; from one extremity to the other of; also, every part of; as, to search throughout the house. Nor to their idle orbs doth sight appear Of sun, or moon, or star, throughout the year. Milton. THROUGHOUT Through*out", adv. Defn: In every part; as, the cloth was of a piece throughout. THROVE Throve, Defn: imp. of Thrive. THROW Throw, n. Etym: [See Throe.] Defn: Pain; especially, pain of travail; throe. [Obs.] Spenser. Dryden. THROW Throw, n. Etym: [AS. , .] Defn: Time; while; space of time; moment; trice. [Obs.] Shak. I will with Thomas speak a little throw. Chaucer. THROW Throw, v. t. [imp. Threw; p. p. Thrown; p. pr. & vb. n. Throwing.] Etym: [OE. , , to throw, to twist, AS. to twist, to whirl; akin to D. draaijen, G. drehen, OHG. drajan, L. terebra an auger, gimlet, Gr. Thread, Trite, Turn, v. t.] 1. To fling, cast, or hurl with a certain whirling motion of the arm, to throw a ball; -- distinguished from to toss, or to bowl. 2. To fling or cast in any manner; to drive to a distance from the hand or from an engine; to propel; to send; as, to throw stones or dust with the hand; a cannon throws a ball; a fire engine throws a stream of water to extinguish flames. 3. To drive by violence; as, a vessel or sailors may be thrown upon a rock. 4. (Mil.) Defn: To cause to take a strategic position; as, he threw a detachment of his army across the river. 5. To overturn; to prostrate in wrestling; as, a man throws his antagonist. 6. To cast, as dice; to venture at dice. Set less than thou throwest. Shak. 7. To put on hastily; to spread carelessly. O'er his fair limbs a flowery vest he threw. Pope. 8. To divest or strip one's self of; to put off. There the snake throws her enameled skin. Shak. 9. (Pottery) Defn: To form or shape roughly on a throwing engine, or potter's wheel, as earthen vessels. 10. To give forcible utterance to; to cast; to vent. I have thrown A brave defiance in King Henry's teeth. Shak. 11. To bring forth; to produce, as young; to bear; -- said especially of rabbits. 12. To twist two or more filaments of, as silk, so as to form one thread; to twist together, as singles, in a direction contrary to the twist of the singles themselves; -- sometimes applied to the whole class of operations by which silk is prepared for the weaver. Tomlinson. To throw away. (a) To lose by neglect or folly; to spend in vain; to bestow without a compensation; as, to throw away time; to throw away money. (b) To reject; as, to throw away a good book, or a good offer. -- To throw back. (a) To retort; to cast back, as a reply. (b) To reject; to refuse. (c) To reflect, as light. -- To throw by, to lay aside; to discard; to neglect as useless; as, to throw by a garment. -- To throw down, to subvert; to overthrow; to destroy; as, to throw down a fence or wall. -- To throw in. (a) To inject, as a fluid. (b) To put in; to deposit with others; to contribute; as, to throw in a few dollars to help make up a fund; to throw in an occasional comment. (c) To add without enumeration or valuation, as something extra to clinch a bargain. -- To throw off. (a) To expel; to free one's self from; as, to throw off a disease. (b) To reject; to discard; to abandon; as, to throw off all sense of shame; to throw off a dependent. (c) To make a start in a hunt or race. [Eng.](e) To disconcert or confuse. Same as to throw out (f). -- To throw on, to cast on; to load. -- To throw one's self down, to lie down neglectively or suddenly. -- To throw one's self on or upon. (a) To fall upon. (b) To resign one's self to the favor, clemency, or sustain power of (another); to repose upon. -- To throw out. (a) To cast out; to reject or discard; to expel. "The other two, whom they had thrown out, they were content should enjoy their exile." Swift. "The bill was thrown out." Swift. (b) To utter; to give utterance to; to speak; as, to throw out insinuation or observation. "She throws out thrilling shrieks." Spenser. (c) To distance; to leave behind. Addison. (d) To cause to project; as, to throw out a pier or an abutment. (e) To give forth; to emit; as, an electric lamp throws out a brilliant light. (f) To put out; to confuse; as, a sudden question often throws out an orator. -- To throw over, to abandon the cause of; to desert; to discard; as, to throw over a friend in difficulties. -- To throw up. (a) To resign; to give up; to demit; as, to throw up a commission. "Experienced gamesters throw up their cards when they know that the game is in the enemy's hand." Addison. (b) To reject from the stomach; to vomit. (c) To construct hastily; as, to throw up a breastwork of earth. THROW Throw, v. i. Defn: To perform the act of throwing or casting; to cast; specifically, to cast dice. To throw about, to cast about; to try expedients. [R.] THROW Throw, n. 1. The act of hurling or flinging; a driving or propelling from the hand or an engine; a cast. He heaved a stone, and, rising to the throw, He sent it in a whirlwind at the foe. Addison. 2. A stroke; a blow. [Obs.] Nor shield defend the thunder of his throws. Spenser. 3. The distance which a missile