[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

holiness or piety. A means which his mercy hath sanctified so to me as to make me repent of that unjust act. Eikon Basilike. 4. To impart or impute sacredness, venerableness, inviolability, title to reverence and respect, or the like, to; to secure from violation; to give sanction to. The holy man, amazed at what he saw, Made haste to sanctify the bliss by law. Dryden. Truth guards the poet, sanctifies the line. Pope. SANCTIFYINGLY Sanc"ti*fy`ing*ly, adv. Defn: In a manner or degree tending to sanctify or make holy. SANCTILOQUENT Sanc*til"o*quent, a. Etym: [L. sanctus holy + loquens, p. pr. of loqui to speak.] Defn: Discoursing on heavenly or holy things, or in a holy manner. SANCTIMONIAL Sanc`ti*mo"ni*al, a. Etym: [Cf. LL. sanctimonialis. ] Defn: Sanctimonius. [Obs.] SANCTIMONIOUS Sanc`ti*mo"ni*ous, a. Etym: [See Sanctimony.] 1. Possessing sanctimony; holy; sacred; saintly. Shak. 2. Making a show of sanctity; affecting saintliness; hypocritically devout or pious. "Like the sanctimonious pirate." Shak. -- Sanc`ti*mo"ni*ous*ly, adv. -- Sanc`ti*mo"ni*ous*ness, n. SANCTIMONY Sanc"ti*mo*ny, n. Etym: [L. sanctimonia, fr. sanctus holy: cf. OF. sanctimonie. See Saint.] Defn: Holiness; devoutness; scrupulous austerity; sanctity; especially, outward or artificial saintliness; assumed or pretended holiness; hypocritical devoutness. Her pretense is a pilgrimage; . . . which holy undertaking with most austere sanctimony she accomplished. Shak. SANCTION Sanc"tion, n. Etym: [L. sanctio, from sancire, samctum to render sacred or inviolable, to fix unalternably: cf. F. sanction. See Saint.] 1. Solemn or ceremonious ratification; an official act of a superior by which he ratifies and gives validity to the act of some other person or body; establishment or furtherance of anything by authority to it; confirmation; approbation. The strictest professors of reason have added the sanction of their testimony. I. Watts. 2. Anything done or said to enforce the will, law, or authority of another; as, legal sanctions. Syn. -- Ratification; authorization; authoruty; countenance; support. SANCTION Sanc"tion, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Sanctioned; p. pr. & vb. n. Sanctioning.] Defn: To give sanction to; to ratify; to confirm; to approve. Would have counseled, or even sanctioned, such perilous experiments. De Quincey. Syn. -- To ratify; confirm; authorize; countenance. SANCTIONARY Sanc"tion*a*ry, a. Defn: Of, pertaining to, or giving, sanction. SANCTITUDE Sanc"ti*tude, a. Etym: [L. sanctitudo.] Defn: Holiness; sacredness; sanctity. [R.] milton. SANCTITY Sanc"ti*ty, n.; pl. Sanctities. Etym: [L. sanctitas, from sanctus holy. See Saint.] 1. The state or quality of being sacred or holy; holiness; saintliness; moral purity; godliness. To sanctity she made no pretense, and, indeed, narrowly escaped the imputation of irreligion. Macaulay. 2. Sacredness; solemnity; inviolability; religious binding force; as, the sanctity of an oath. 3. A saint or holy being. [R.] About him all the sanctities of heaven. Milton. Syn. -- Holiness; godliness; piety; devotion; goodness; purity; religiousness;sacredness; solemnity. See the Note under Religion. SANCTUARIZE Sanc"tu*a*rize, v. t. Defn: To shelter by means of a sanctuary or sacred privileges. [Obs.] Shak. SANCTUARY Sanc"tu*a*ry, n.; pl. Sanctuaries. Etym: [OE. seintuare, OF. saintuaire, F. sanctuaire, fr. L. sanctuarium, from sanctus sacred, holy. See Saint.] Defn: A sacred place; a consecrated spot; a holy and inviolable site. Hence, specifically: (a) The most retired part of the temple at Jerusalem, called the Holy of Holies, in which was kept the ark of the covenant, and into which no person was permitted to enter except the high priest, and he only once a year, to intercede for the people; also, the most sacred part of the tabernacle; also, the temple at Jerusalem. (b) (Arch.) The most sacred part of any religious building, esp. that part of a Christian church in which the altar is placed. (c) A house consecrated to the worship of God; a place where divine service is performed; a church, temple, or other place of worship. (d) A sacred and inviolable asylum; a place of refuge and protection; shelter; refuge; protection. These laws, whoever made them, bestowed on temples the privelege of sanctuary. Milton . These admirable works of painting were made fuel for the fire; but some relics of it took sanctuary under ground, and escaped the common destiny. Dryden. Wildlife sanctuary, a tract of land set aside by law for the preservation of wildlife, in which no hunting is permitted. SANCTUM Sanc"tum, n. Etym: [L., p.p. of sanctire to consecrate.] Defn: A sacred place; hence, a place of retreat; a room reserved for personal use; as, an editor's sanctum. Sanctum sanctorum Etym: [L.] , the Holy of Holies; the most holy place, as in the Jewish temple. SANCTUS Sanc"tus, n. Etym: [L. sanctus, p.p. of sancire.] 1. (Eccl.) Defn: A part of the Mass, or, in Protestant churches, a part of the communion service, of which the first words in Latin are Sanctus, sanctus, sanctus [Holy, holy, holy]; -- called also Tersanctus. 2. (Mus.) Defn: An anthem composed for these words. Sanctus bell, a small bell usually suspended in a bell cot at the apex of the nave roof, over the chancel arch, in mediæval churches, but a hand bell is now often used; -- so called because rung at the singing of the sanctus, at the conclusion of the ordinary of the Mass, and again at the elevation of the host. Called also Mass bell, sacring bell, saints' bell, sance- bell, sancte bell. SAND Sand, n. Etym: [AS. sand; akin to D. zand, G. sand, OHG. sant, Icel. sandr, Dan. & Sw. sand, Gr. 1. Fine particles of stone, esp. of siliceous stone, but not reduced to dust; comminuted stone in the form of loose grains, which are not coherent when wet. That finer matter, called sand, is no other than very small pebbles. Woodsward. 2. A single particle of such stone. [R.] Shak. 3. The sand in the hourglass; hence, a moment or interval of time; the term or extent of one's life. The sands are numbered that make up my life. Shak. 4. pl. Defn: Tracts of land consisting of sand, like the deserts of Arabia and Africa; also, extensive tracts of sand exposed by the ebb of the tide. "The Libyan sands." Milton. "The sands o'Dee." C. Kingsley. 5. Courage; pluck; grit. [Slang] Sand badger (Zoöl.), the Japanese badger (Meles ankuma). -- Sand bag (a) A bag filled with sand or earth, used for various purposes, as in fortification, for ballast, etc. (b) A long bag filled with sand, used as a club by assassins. -- Sand ball, soap mixed with sand, made into a ball for use at the toilet. -- Sand bath. (a) (Chem.) A vessel of hot sand in a laboratory, in which vessels that are to be heated are partially immersed. (b) A bath in which the body is immersed in hot sand. -- Sand bed, a thick layer of sand, whether deposited naturally or artificially; specifically, a thick layer of sand into which molten metal is run in casting, or from a reducing furnace. -- Sand birds (Zoöl.), a collective name for numerous species of limicoline birds, such as the sandpipers, plovers, tattlers, and many others; -- called also shore birds. -- Sand blast, a process of engraving and cutting glass and other hard substances by driving sand against them by a steam jet or otherwise; also, the apparatus used in the process. -- Sand box. (a) A box with a perforated top or cover, for sprinkling paper with sand. (b) A box carried on locomotives, from which sand runs on the rails in front of the driving wheel, to prevent slipping. -- Sand-box tree (Bot.), a tropical American tree (Hura crepitans). Its fruit is a depressed many-celled woody capsule which, when completely dry, bursts with a loud report and scatters the seeds. See Illust. of Regma. -- Sand bug (Zoöl.), an American anomuran crustacean (Hippa talpoidea) which burrows in sandy seabeaches. It is often used as bait by fishermen. See Illust. under Anomura. -- Sand canal (Zoöl.), a tubular vessel having a calcareous coating, and connecting the oral ambulacral ring with the madreporic tubercle. It appears to be excretory in function. -- Sand cock (Zoöl.), the redshank. [Prov. Eng.] -- Sand collar. (Zoöl.) Same as Sand saucer, below. -- Sand crab. (Zoöl.) (a) The lady crab. (b) A land crab, or ocypodian. -- Sand crack (Far.), a crack extending downward from the coronet, in the wall of a horse's hoof, which often causes lameness. -- Sand cricket (Zoöl.), any one of several species of large terrestrial crickets of the genus Stenophelmatus and allied genera, native of the sandy plains of the Western United States. -- Sand cusk (Zoöl.), any ophidiod fish. See Illust. under Ophidiod. -- Sand dab (Zoöl.), a small American flounder (Limanda ferruginea); -- called also rusty dab. The name is also applied locally to other allied species. -- Sand darter (Zoöl.), a small etheostomoid fish of the Ohio valley (Ammocrypta pellucida). -- Sand dollar (Zoöl.), any one of several species of small flat circular sea urchins, which live on sandy bottoms, especially Echinarachnius parma of the American coast. -- Sand drift, drifting sand; also, a mound or bank of