[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

see an undertaking of another performed; a guarantor. South. Note: Guarantor is the correct form in this sense. 3. (Law) Defn: The person to whom a guaranty is made; -- the correlative of guarantor. Syn. -- Guarantee, Warranty. A guarantee is an engagement that a certain act will be done or not done in future. A warranty is an engagement as to the qualities or title of a thing at the time of the engagement. GUARANTEE Guar"an*tee`, v. t. [imp. & p. p. guaranteed; p, pr. & vb. n. Guaranteeing.] Etym: [From Guarantee, n.] Defn: In law and common usage: to undertake or engage for the payment of (a debt) or the performance of (a duty) by another person; to undertake to secure (a possession, right, claim, etc.) to another against a specified contingency, or at all avents; to give a guarantee concerning; to engage, assure, or secure as a thing that may be depended on; to warrant; as, to guarantee the execution of a treaty. The United States shall guarantee to every State in this Union a republican form of government. Constitution of the U. S. GUARANTOR Guar"an*tor`, n. Etym: [See Guaranty, and cf. Warrantor.] (Law) (a) One who makes or gives a guaranty; a warrantor; a surety. (b) One who engages to secure another in any right or possession. GUARANTY Guar"an*ty, n.; pl. Guaranies. Etym: [OF. guarantie, garantie, F. garantie, OF. guarantir, garantir, to warrant, to guaranty, E. garantir, fr. OF. guarant, garant, a warranter, F. garant; of German origin, and from the same word as warranty. See Warrant, and cf. Warranty, Guarantee.] Defn: In law and common usage: An undertaking to answer for the payment of some debt, or the performance of some contract or duty, of another, in case of the failure of such other to pay or perform; a guarantee; a warranty; a security. GUARANTY Guar"an*ty, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Guarantied; p. pr. & vb. n. Guarantying.] Etym: [From Guaranty, n.] Defn: In law and common usage: To undertake or engage that another person shall perform (what he hass stipulated); to undertake to be answerable for (the debt or default of another); to engage to answer for the performance of (some promise or duty by another) in case of a failure by the latter to perform; to undertake to secure (something) to another, as in the case of a contingency. See Guarantee, v. t. Note: Guaranty agrees in form with warranty. Both guaranty and guarantee are well authorized by legal writers in the United States. The prevailing spelling, at least for the verb, is guarantee. GUARD Guard, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Guarded; p. pr. &, vb. n. Gurding.] Etym: [OF. guarder, garder, warder, F. garder, fr. OHG. wart to be on the watch, await, G. marten. See Ward, v. & n., and cf. Guard, n.] 1. To protect from danger; to secure against surprise, attack, or injury; to keep in safety; to defend; to shelter; to shield from surprise or attack; to protect by attendance; toaccompany for protection; to vare for. For Heaven still guards the right. Shak. 2. To keep watch over, in order to prevent escape or restrain from acts of violence, or the like. 3. To protect the edge of, esp. with an ornamental border; hence, to face or ornament with lists, laces, etc. The body of your discourse it sometime guarded with fragments, and the guards are but slightly basted on neither. Shak. 4. To fasten by binding; to gird. [Obs.] B. Jonson. Syn. -- To defend, protect, shield; keep; watch. GUARD Guard (gärd), v. i. Defn: To watch by way of caution or defense; to be caution; to be in a state or position of defense or safety; as, careful persons guard against mistakes. GUARD Guard, n. Etym: [OF. guarde, F. garde; of German origin; cf. OHG. wart, marto, one who watches, mata a watching, Goth. wardja watchman. See Guard, v. t.] 1. One who, or that which, guards from injury, danger, exposure, or attack; defense; protection. His greatness was no guard to bar heaven's shaft. Shak. 2. A man, or body of men, stationed to protect or control a person or position; a watch; a sentinel. The guard which kept the door of the king's house. Kings xiv. 27. 3. One who has charge of a mail coach or a railway train; a conductor. [Eng.] 4. Any fixture or attachment designed to protect or secure against injury, soiling, or defacement, theft or loss; as: (a) That part of a sword hilt which protects the hand. (b) Ornamental lace or hem protecting the edge of a garment. (c) A chain or cord for fastening a watch to one's person or dress. (d) A fence or rail to prevent falling from the deck of a vessel. (e) An extension of the deck of a vessel beyond the hull; esp., in side-wheel steam vessels, the framework of strong timbers, which curves out on each side beyond the paddle wheel, and protects it and the shaft against collision. (f) A plate of metal, beneath the stock, or the lock frame, of a gun or pistol, having a loop, called a bow, to protect the trigger. (g) (Bookbinding) An interleaved strip at the back, as in a scrap book, to guard against its breaking when filled. 5. A posture of defense in fencing, and in bayonet and saber exercise. 6. An expression or admission intended to secure against objections or censure. They have expressed themselves with as few guards and restrictions as I. Atterbury. 7. Watch; heed; care; attention; as, to keep guard. 8. (Zoöl.) Defn: The fibrous sheath which covers the phragmacone of the Belemnites. Note: Guard is often used adjectively or in combination; as, guard boat or guardboat; guardroom or guard room; guard duty. Advanced guard, Coast guard, etc. See under Advanced, Coast, etc. -- Grand guard (Mil.), one of the posts of the second line belonging to a system of advance posts of an army. Mahan. -- Guard boat. (a) A boat appointed to row the rounds among ships of war in a harbor, to see that their officers keep a good lookout. (b) A boat used by harbor authorities to enforce the observance of quarantine regulations. -- Guard cells (Bot.), the bordering cells of stomates; they are crescent-shaped and contain chlorophyll. -- Guard chamber, a guardroom. -- Guard detail (Mil.men from a company regiment etc., detailed for guard duty. -- Guard duty (Mil.), the duty of watching patrolling, etc., performed by a sentinel or sentinels. -- Guard lock (Engin.), a tide lock at the mouth of a dock or basin. -- Guard of honor (Mil.), a guard appointed to receive or to accompany eminent persons. -- Guard rail (Railroads), a rail placed on the inside of a main rail, on bridges, at switches, etc., as a safeguard against derailment. -- Guard ship, a war vessel appointed to superintend the marine affairs in a harbor, and also, in the English service, to receive seamen till they can be distributed among their respective ships. -- Life guard (Mil.), a body of select troops attending the person of a prince or high officer. -- Off one's guard, in a careless state; inattentive; unsuspicious of danger. -- On guard, serving in the capacity of a guard; doing duty as a guard or sentinel; watching. -- On one's guard, in a watchful state; alert; vigilant. -- To mount guard (Mil.), to go on duty as a guard or sentinel. -- To run the guard, to pass the watch or sentinel without leave. Syn. -- Defense; shield; protection; safeguard; convoy; escort; care; attention; watch; heed. GUARDABLE Guard"a*ble, a. Etym: [Cf. F. gardable. See Guard, v. t.] Defn: Capable of being guarded or protected. GUARDAGE Guard"age, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. wardage. See Guard, v. t.] Defn: Wardship [Obs.] Shak. GUARDANT Guard"ant, a. Etym: [OF. guardant, p. pr. of guard. See Guard, v. t.] 1. Acting as guardian. [Obs.] Shak. 2. (Her.) Defn: Same as Gardant. GUARDANT Guard"ant, n. Defn: A guardian. [Obs.] Shak. GUARDED Guard"ed, a. Defn: Cautious; wary; circumspect; as, he was guarded in his expressions; framed or uttered with caution; as, his expressions were guarded. -- Guard"edly, adv. -- Guard"ed*ness, n. GUARDENAGE Guard"en*age, n. Defn: Guardianship. [Obs. & R.] " His tuition and guardenage." Holland. GUARDER Guard"er, n. Defn: One who guards. GUARDFISH Guard"fish`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: The garfish. GUARDFUL Guard"ful, a. Defn: Cautions; wary; watchful. [Obs. or Poetic.] -- Guard"ful*ly, adv. GUARDHOUSE Guard"house`, n. (Mil.) Defn: A building which is occupied by the guard, and in which soldiers are confined for misconduct; hence, a lock-up. GUARDIAN Guard"i*an, n. Etym: [OF. guardain, gardien, F. gardien, LL. guardianus. See Guard, v. t., and cf. Wasden.] 1. One who guards, preserves, or secures; one to whom any person or thing is committed for protection, security, or preservation from injury; a warden. 2. (Law) Defn: One who has, or is entitled to, the custody of the person or property of an infant, a minor