[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

Auriphrygiate.] Defn: See Orphrey. [Obs.] Rom. of R. ORGAL Or"gal, n. (Chem.) Defn: See Argol. [Obs.] ORGAN Or"gan, n. Etym: [L. organum, Gr. work: cf. F. organe. See Work, and cf. Orgue, Orgy.] 1. An instrument or medium by which some important action is performed, or an important end accomplished; as, legislatures, courts, armies, taxgatherers, etc., are organs of government. 2. (Biol.) Defn: A natural part or structure in an animal or a plant, capable of performing some special action (termed its function), which is essential to the life or well-being of the whole; as, the heart, lungs, etc., are organs of animals; the root, stem, foliage, etc., are organs of plants. Note: In animals the organs are generally made up of several tissues, one of which usually predominates, and determines the principal function of the organ. Groups of organs constitute a system. See System. 3. A component part performing an essential office in the working of any complex machine; as, the cylinder, valves, crank, etc., are organs of the steam engine. 4. A medium of communication between one person or body and another; as, the secretary of state is the organ of communication between the government and a foreign power; a newspaper is the organ of its editor, or of a party, sect, etc. 5. Etym: [Cf. AS. organ, fr. L. organum.] (Mus.) Defn: A wind instrument containing numerous pipes of various dimensions and kinds, which are filled with wind from a bellows, and played upon by means of keys similar to those of a piano, and sometimes by foot keys or pedals; -- formerly used in the plural, each pipe being considired an organ. The deep, majestic, solemn organs blow. Pope. Note: Chaucer used the form orgon as a plural. The merry orgon . . . that in the church goon [go]. Barrel organ, Choir organ, Great organ, etc. See under Barrel, Choir, etc. -- Cabinet organ (Mus.), an organ of small size, as for a chapel or for domestic use; a reed organ. -- Organ bird (Zoöl.), a Tasmanian crow shrike (Gymnorhina organicum). It utters discordant notes like those of a hand organ out of tune. -- Organ fish (Zoöl.), the drumfish. -- Organ gun. (Mil.) Same as Orgue (b). -- Organ harmonium (Mus.), an harmonium of large capacity and power. -- Organ of Gorti (Anat.), a complicated structure in the cochlea of the ear, including the auditory hair cells, the rods or fibers of Corti, the membrane of Corti, etc. See Note under Ear. -- Organ pipe. See Pipe, n., 1. -- Organ-pipe coral. (Zoöl.) See Tubipora. -- Organ point (Mus.), a passage in which the tonic or dominant is sustained continuously by one part, while the other parts move. ORGAN Or"gan, v. t. Defn: To supply with an organ or organs; to fit with organs; to organize. [Obs.] Thou art elemented and organed for other apprehensions. Bp. Mannyngham. ORGANDIE; ORGANDY Or"gan*die, Or"gan*dy, n. Etym: [F. organdi.] Defn: A kind of transparent light muslin. ORGANIC Or*gan"ic, a. Etym: [L. organicus, Gr. organique.] 1. (Biol.) Defn: Of or pertaining to an organ or its functions, or to objects composed of organs; consisting of organs, or containing them; as, the organic structure of animals and plants; exhibiting characters peculiar to living organisms; as, organic bodies, organic life, organic remains. Cf. Inorganic. 2. Produced by the organs; as, organic pleasure. [R.] 3. Instrumental; acting as instruments of nature or of art to a certain destined function or end. [R.] Those organic arts which enable men to discourse and write perspicuously. Milton. 4. Forming a whole composed of organs. Hence: Of or pertaining to a system of organs; inherent in, or resulting from, a certain organization; as, an organic government; his love of truth was not inculcated, but organic. 5. Pertaining to, or denoting, any one of the large series of substances which, in nature or origin, are connected with vital processes, and include many substances of artificial production which may or may not occur in animals or plants; -- contrasted with Ant: inorganic. Note: The principles of organic and inorganic chemistry are identical; but the enormous number and the completeness of related series of organic compounds, together with their remarkable facility of exchange and substitution, offer an illustration of chemical reaction and homology not to be paralleled in inorganic chemistry. Organic analysis (Chem.), the analysis of organic compounds, concerned chiefly with the determination of carbon as carbon dioxide, hydrogen as water, oxygen as the difference between the sum of the others and 100 per cent, and nitrogen as free nitrogen, ammonia, or nitric oxide; -- formerly called ultimate analysis, in distinction from proximate analysis. -- Organic chemistry. See under Chemistry. -- Organic compounds. (Chem.) See Carbon compounds, under Carbon. -- Organic description of a curve (Geom.), the description of a curve on a plane by means of instruments. Brande & C. -- Organic disease (Med.), a disease attended with morbid changes in the structure of the organs of the body or in the composition of its fluids; -- opposed to functional disease. -- Organic electricity. See under Electricity. -- Organic law or laws, a law or system of laws, or declaration of principles fundamental to the existence and organization of a political or other association; a constitution. -- Organic stricture (Med.), a contraction of one of the natural passages of the body produced by structural changes in its walls, as distinguished from a spasmodic stricture, which is due to muscular contraction. ORGANICAL Or*gan"ic*al, a. Defn: Organic. The organical structure of human bodies, whereby they live and move. Bentley. ORGANICALLY Or*gan"ic*al*ly, adv. Defn: In an organic manner; by means of organs or with reference to organic functions; hence, fundamentally. Gladstone. ORGANICALNESS Or*gan"ic*al*ness, n. Defn: The quality or state of being organic. ORGANICISM Or*gan"i*cism, n. (Med.) Defn: The doctrine of the localization of disease, or which refers it always to a material lesion of an organ. Dunglison. ORGANIFIC Or`gan*if"ic, a. Etym: [Organ + L. -ficare (in comp.) to make. See fy.] Defn: Making an organic or organized structure; producing an organism; acting through, or resulting from, organs. Prof. Park. ORGANISM Or"gan*ism, n. Etym: [Cf. F. organisme.] 1. Organic structure; organization. "The advantageous organism of the eye." Grew. 2. (Biol.) Defn: An organized being; a living body, either vegetable or animal, compozed of different organs or parts with functions which are separate, but mutually dependent, and essential to the life of the individual. Note: Some of the lower forms of life are so simple in structure as to be without organs, but are still called organisms, since they have different parts analogous in functions to the organs of higher plants and animals. ORGANIST Or"gan*ist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. organiste.] 1. (Mus.) Defn: One who plays on the organ. 2. (R. C. Ch.) Defn: One of the priests who organized or sung in parts. [Obs.] ORGANISTA Or`ga*nis"ta, n. Etym: [Sp., an organis.] (Zoöl.) Defn: Any one of several South American wrens, noted for the sweetness of their song. ORGANITY Or*gan"i*ty, n. Defn: Organism. [R.] ORGANIZABILITY Or`gan*i`za*bil"i*ty, n. Defn: Quality of being organizable; capability of being organized. ORGANIZABLE Or"gan*i`za*ble, a. Defn: Capable of being organized; esp. (Biol.), capable of being formed into living tissue; as, organizable matter. ORGANIZATION Or`gan*i*za"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. organisation.] 1. The act of organizing; the act of arranging in a systematic way for use or action; as, the organization of an army, or of a deliberative body. "The first organization of the general government." Pickering. 2. The state of being organized; also, the relations included in such a state or condition. What is organization but the connection of parts in and for a whole, so that each part is, at once, end and means Coleridge. 3. That wich is organized; an organized existence; an organism; specif. (Biol.), an arrangement of parts for the performance of the functions necessary to life. The cell may be regarded as the most simple, the most common, and the earliest form of organization. McKendrick. ORGANIZE Or"gan*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Organized; p. pr. & vb. n. Organizing.] Etym: [Cf. F. organiser, Gr. Organ.] 1. (Biol.) Defn: To furnish with organs; to give an organic structure to; to endow with capacity for the functions of life; as, an organized being; organized matter; -- in this sense used chiefly in the past participle. These nobler faculties of the mind, matter organized could never produce. Ray. 2. To arrange or constitute in parts, each having a special function, act, office, or relation; to systematize; to get into working order; -- applied to products of the human intellect, or to human institutions and undertakings, as a science, a government, an army, a war, etc. This original and supreme will organizes the government. Cranch. 3. (Mus.) Defn: To sing in parts; as, to organize an anthem. [R.] Busby. ORGANIZER Or"gan*i`zer, n. Defn: One who organizes. ORGANLING Or"gan*ling, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: A large kind of sea fish; the orgeis. ORGANO- Or"ga*no-. Etym: [See Organ.] Defn: A combining form