[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

additions thereto by accumulation or contribution, the other side showing the amounts withdrawn. -- Stock car, a railway car for carrying cattle. -- Stock company (Com.), an incorporated company the capital of which is represented by marketable shares having a certain equal par value. -- Stock duck (Zoöl.), the mallard. -- Stock exchange. (a) The building or place where stocks are bought and sold; stock market; hence, transactions of all kinds in stocks. (b) An association or body of stockbrokers who meet and transact business by certain recognized forms, regulations, and usages. Wharton. Brande & C. -- Stock farmer, a farmer who makes it his business to rear live stock. -- Stock gillyflower (Bot.), the common stock. See Stock, n., 18. -- Stock gold, gold laid up so as to form a stock, or hoard. -- Stock in trade, the goods kept for sale by a shopkeeper; the fittings and appliances of a workman. Simmonds. -- Stock list, a list of stocks, or shares, dealt in, of transactions, and of prices. -- Stock lock, a lock inclosed in a wooden case and attached to the face of a door. -- Stock market. (a) A place where stocks are bought and sold; the stock exchange. (b) A market for live stock. -- Stock pigeon. (Zoöl.) Same as Stockdove. -- Stock purse. (a) A common purse, as distinguished from a private purse. (b) (Mil.) Moneys saved out of the expenses of a company or regiment, and applied to objects of common interest. [Eng.] -- Stock shave, a tool used by blockmakers. -- Stock station, a place or district for rearing stock. [Australia] W. Howitt. -- Stock tackle (Naut.), a tackle used when the anchor is hoisted and secured, to keep its stock clear of the ship's sides. Totten. -- Stock taking, an examination and inventory made of goods or stock in a shop or warehouse; -- usually made periodically. -- Tail stock. See Tailstock. -- To have something on the stock, to be at work at something. -- To take stock, to take account of stock; to make an inventory of stock or goods on hand. Dickens. -- To take stock in. (a) To subscribe for, or purchase, shares in a stock company. (b) To put faith in; to accept as trustworthy; as, to take stock in a person's fidelity. [Slang] -- To take stock of, to take account of the stock of; to take an inventory of; hence, to ascertain the facts in regard to (something). [Eng.] At the outset of any inquiry it is proper to take stock of the results obtained by previous explorers of the same field. Leslie Stephen. Syn. -- Fund; capital; store; supply; accumulation; hoard; provision. STOCK Stock, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Stocked; p. pr. & vb. n. Stocking.] 1. To lay up; to put aside for future use; to store, as merchandise, and the like. 2. To provide with material requisites; to store; to fill; to supply; as, to stock a warehouse, that is, to fill it with goods; to stock a farm, that is, to supply it with cattle and tools; to stock land, that is, to occupy it with a permanent growth, especially of grass. 3. To suffer to retain milk for twenty-four hours or more previous to sale, as cows. 4. To put in the stocks. [R.] Shak. To stock an anchor (Naut.), to fit it with a stock, or to fasten the stock firmly in place. -- To stock cards (Card Playing), to arrange cards in a certain manner for cheating purposes. [Cant] -- To stock down (Agric.), to sow, as plowed land, with grass seed, in order that it may become swarded, and produce grass. -- To stock up, to extirpate; to dig up. STOCK Stock, a. Defn: Used or employed for constant service or application, as if constituting a portion of a stock or supply; standard; permanent; standing; as, a stock actor; a stock play; a stock sermon. "A stock charge against Raleigh." C. Kingsley. Stock company (Theater), a company of actors regularly employed at one theater, or permanently acting together in various plays under one management. STOCKADE Stock*ade", n. Etym: [F. estacade stockade, boom (confused in French with estocade; see 1st Stoccado); fr. It. steccata a palisade (influenced by OF. estach, estaque, a stake, post), or from Sp. estacada a palisade; both of German origin, and akin to E. stake, stick; cf. G. stecken stick, OHG. steccho. See Stake, n., Stick, n. & v. t., and cf. Estacade, Stacket.] 1. (Mil.) Defn: A line of stout posts or timbers set firmly in the earth in contact with each other (and usually with loopholes) to form a barrier, or defensive fortification. [Written also stoccade.] 2. An inclosure, or pen, made with posts and stakes. STOCKADE Stock*ade", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Stockaded; p. pr. & vb. n. Stockading.] Defn: To surround, fortify, or protect with a stockade. STOCK-BLIND Stock"-blind`, a. Defn: Blind as a stock; wholly blind. STOCKBROKER Stock"bro`ker, n. Defn: A broker who deals in stocks. STOCKDOVE Stock"dove`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: A common European wild pigeon (Columba ænas), so called because at one time believed to be the stock of the domestic pigeon, or, according to some, from its breeding in the stocks, or trunks, of trees. Note: The name is applied, also, to other related species, as the Indian stockdove (Palumbæna Eversmanni). STOCKER Stock"er, n. Defn: One who makes or fits stocks, as of guns or gun carriages, etc. STOCKFISH Stock"fish`, n. Etym: [Cf. D. stokvisch.] 1. Salted and dried fish, especially codfish, hake, ling, and torsk; also, codfish dried without being salted. 2. (Zoöl.) Defn: Young fresh cod. STOCKHOLDER Stock"hold`er, n. Defn: One who is a holder or proprietor of stock in the public funds, or in the funds of a bank or other stock company. STOCKINET Stock`i*net", n. Defn: An elastic textile fabric imitating knitting, of which stockings, under-garments, etc., are made. STOCKING Stock"ing, n. Etym: [From Stock, which was formerly used of a covering for the legs and feet, combining breeches, or upper stocks, and stockings, or nether stocks.] Defn: A close-fitting covering for the foot and leg, usually knit or woven. Blue stocking. See Bluestocking. -- Stocking frame, a machine for knitting stockings or other hosiery goods. STOCKING Stock"ing, v. t. Defn: To dress in GBs. Dryden. STOCKINGER Stock"ing*er, n. Defn: A stocking weaver. STOCKISH Stock"ish, a. Defn: Like a stock; stupid; blockish. Since naught so stockish, hard, and full of rage, But music for the time doth change his nature. Shak. STOCKJOBBER Stock"job`ber, n. Etym: [Stock + job.] Defn: One who speculates in stocks for gain; one whose occupation is to buy and sell stocks. In England a jobber acts as an intermediary between brokers. STOCKJOBBING Stock"job`bing, n. Defn: The act or art of dealing in stocks; the business of a stockjobber. STOCKMAN Stock"man, n.; pl. Stockmen (. Defn: A herdsman; a ranchman; one owning, or having charge of, herds of live stock. [Australia & U.S.] W. Howitt. STOCK-STILL Stock"-still`, a. Etym: [CF. G. stock-still.] Defn: Still as a stock, or fixed post; perfectly still. His whole work stands stock-still. Sterne. STOCKWORK Stock"work`, n. Etym: [G. stockwerk.] 1. (Mining) Defn: A system of working in ore, etc., when it lies not in strata or veins, but in solid masses, so as to be worked in chambers or stories. 2. (Geol.) Defn: A metalliferous deposit characterized by the impregnation of the mass of rock with many small veins or nests irregularly grouped. This kind of deposit is especially common with tin ore. Such deposits are worked in floors or stories. STOCKY Stock"y, a. Etym: [From Stock.] 1. Short and thick; thick rather than tall or corpulent. Addison. Stocky, twisted, hunchback stems. Mrs. H. H. Jackson. 2. Headstrong. [Prov. Eng.] G. Eliot. STODGY Stodg"y, a. Defn: Wet. [Prov. Eng.] G. Eliot. STOECHIOLOGY; STOECHIOMETRY Stoech`i*ol"o*gy, n., Stoech`i*om"e*try (, n., etc. Defn: See Stoichiology, Stoichiometry, etc. STOGY Sto"gy, a. [Etym. uncertain. Cf. Stocky.] Defn: heavy; coarse; clumsy. [Colloq.] STOGY Sto"gy, n.; pl. Stogies. [Written also stogie.] [Colloq.] 1. A stout, coarse boot or shoe; a brogan. 2. A kind of cheap, but not necessary inferior, cigar made in the form of a cylindrical roll. STOIC Sto"ic, n. Etym: [L. stoicus, Gr. 1. A disciple of the philosopher Zeno; one of a Greek sect which held that men should be free from passion, unmoved by joy or grief, and should submit without complaint to unavoidable necessity, by which all things are governed. 2. Hence, a person not easily excited; an apathetic person; one who is apparently or professedly indifferent to pleasure or pain. A Stoic of the woods, a man without a tear. Campbell. School of Stoics. See The Porch, under Porch. STOIC; STOICAL Sto"ic, Sto"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. stoicus, Gr. stoïque. See Stoic, n.] 1. Of or pertaining to the Stoics; resembling the Stoics or their doctrines. 2. Not affected by passion; manifesting indifference to pleasure or pain. -- Sto"ic*al*ly, adv. -- Sto"ic*al*ness,