[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

thee warrant of thy place. Shak. His worth is warrant for his welcome hither. Shak. 3. That which attests or proves; a voucher. 4. Right; legality; allowance. [Obs.] Shak. Bench warrant. (Law) See in the Vocabulary. -- Dock warrant (Com.), a customhouse license or authority. -- General warrant. (Law) See under General. -- Land warrant. See under Land. -- Search warrant. (Law) See under Search, n. -- Warrant of attorney (Law), written authority given by one person to another empowering him to transact business for him; specifically, written authority given by a client to his attorney to appear for him in court, and to suffer judgment to pass against him by confession in favor of some specified person. Bouvier. -- Warrant officer, a noncommissioned officer, as a sergeant, corporal, bandmaster, etc., in the army, or a quartermaster, gunner, boatswain, etc., in the navy. -- Warrant to sue and defend. (a) (O. Eng. Law) A special warrant from the crown, authorizing a party to appoint an attorney to sue or defend for him. (b) A special authority given by a party to his attorney to commence a suit, or to appear and defend a suit in his behalf. This warrant is now disused. Burrill. WARRANT War"rant, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Warranted; p. pr. & vb. n. Warranting.] Etym: [OE. waranten, OF. warantir, garantir, guarantir, garentir, garandir, F. garantir to warrant, fr. OF. warant, garant, guarant, a warrant, a protector, a defender, F. garant. sq. root142. See Warrant, n.] 1. To make secure; to give assurance against harm; to guarantee safety to; to give authority or power to do, or forbear to do, anything by which the person authorized is secured, or saved harmless, from any loss or damage by his action. That show I first my body to warrant. Chaucer. I'll warrant him from drowning. Shak. In a place Less warranted than this, or less secure, I can not be. Milton. 2. To support by authority or proof; to justify; to maintain; to sanction; as, reason warrants it. True fortitude is seen in great exploits, That justice warrants, and that wisdom guides. Addison. How little while it is since he went forth out of his study, -- chewing a Hebrew text of Scripture in his mouth, I warrant. Hawthorne. 3. To give a warrant or warranty to; to assure as if by giving a warrant to. [My neck is] as smooth as silk, I warrant ye. L' Estrange. 4. (Law) (a) To secure to, as a grantee, an estate granted; to assure. (b) To secure to, as a purchaser of goods, the title to the same; to indemnify against loss. (c) To secure to, as a purchaser, the quality or quantity of the goods sold, as represented. See Warranty, n., 2. (d) To assure, as a thing sold, to the purchaser; that is, to engage that the thing is what it appears, or is represented, to be, which implies a covenant to make good any defect or loss incurred by it. WARRANTABLE War"rant*a*ble, a. Defn: Authorized by commission, precept, or right; justifiable; defensible; as, the seizure of a thief is always warrantable by law and justice; falsehood is never warrantable. His meals are coarse and short, his employment warrantable, his sleep certain and refreshing. South. -- War"rant*a*ble*ness, n. -- War"rant*bly, adv. WARRANTEE War`ran*tee", n. (Law) Defn: The person to whom a warrant or warranty is made. WARRANTER War"rant*er, n. 1. One who warrants, gives authority, or legally empowers. 2. (Law) Defn: One who assures, or covenants to assure; one who contracts to secure another in a right, or to make good any defect of title or quality; one who gives a warranty; a guarantor; as, the warranter of a horse. WARRANTISE War"rant*ise, n. Etym: [OF. warentise, warandise, garantise. See Warrant, n.] Defn: Authority; security; warranty. [Obs.] Shak. WARRANTISE War"rant*ise, v. t. Defn: To warrant. [Obs.] Hakluyt. WARRANTOR War"rant*or, n. (Law) Defn: One who warrants. WARRANTY War"rant*y, n.; pl. Warranties. Etym: [OF. warantie, F. garantie. See Warrant, n., and cf. Guaranty.] 1. (Anc. Law) Defn: A covenant real, whereby the grantor of an estate of freehold and his heirs were bound to warrant and defend the title, and, in case of eviction by title paramount, to yield other lands of equal value in recompense. This warranty has long singe become obsolete, and its place supplied by personal covenants for title. Among these is the covenant of warranty, which runs with the land, and is in the nature of a real covenant. Kent. 2. (Modern Law) Defn: An engagement or undertaking, express or implied, that a certain fact regarding the subject of a contract is, or shall be, as it is expressly or impliedly declared or promised to be. In sales of goods by persons in possession, there is an implied warranty of title, but, as to the quality of goods, the rule of every sale is, Caveat emptor. Chitty. Bouvier. 3. (Insurance Law) Defn: A stipulation or engagement by a party insured, that certain things, relating to the subject of insurance, or affecting the risk, exist, or shall exist, or have been done, or shall be done. These warranties, when express, should appear in the policy; but there are certain implied warranties. Bouvier. 4. Justificatory mandate or precept; authority; warrant. [R.] Shak. If they disobey precept, that is no excuse to us, nor gives us any warranty . . . to disobey likewise. Kettlewe 5. Security; warrant; guaranty. The stamp was a warranty of the public. Locke. Syn. -- See Guarantee. WARRANTY War"rant*y, v. t. Defn: To warrant; to guarantee. WARRAY War"ray, v. t. Etym: [OF. werreier, werrier, guerroier, F. guerroyer, from OF. werre war, F. guerre; of German origin. See War.] Defn: To make war upon. [Obs.] Fairfax. "When a man warrayeth truth." Chaucer. WARRE Warre, a. Etym: [OE. werre; of Scand. origin. See Worse.] Defn: Worse. [Obs.] They say the world is much warre than it wont. Spenser. WARREN War"ren, n. Etym: [Of. waresne, warenne, garene, F. garenne, from OF. warer, garer, to beware, to take care; of Teutonic origin; cf. OHG. war (in comp.), OS. war to take care, to observe, akin to E. wary. Wary.] 1. (Eng Law) (a) A place privileged, by prescription or grant the king, for keeping certain animals (as hares, conies, partridges, pheasants, etc.) called beasts and fowls of warren. Burrill. (b) A privilege which one has in his lands, by royal grant or prescription, of hunting and taking wild beasts and birds of warren, to the exclusion of any other person not entering by his permission. Spelman. They wend both warren and in waste. Piers Plowman. Note: The warren is the next franchise in degree to the park; and a forest, which is the highest in dignity, comprehends a chase, a park, and a free warren. 2. A piece of ground for the breeding of rabbits. 3. A place for keeping flash, in a river. WARRENER War"ren*er, n. Defn: The keeper of a warren. WARRIANGLE War`ri*an"gle, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: See Wariangle. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] WARRIE War"rie, v. t. Defn: See Warye. [Obs.] WARRIN War"rin, n. Etym: [From a native name.] (Zoöl.) Defn: An Australian lorikeet (Trichoglossus multicolor) remarkable for the variety and brilliancy of its colors; -- called also blue- bellied lorikeet, and blue-bellied parrot. WARRIOR War"rior, n. Etym: [OE. werreour, OF. werreour, guerreor, from guerre, werre, war. See War, and Warray.] Defn: A man engaged or experienced in war, or in the military life; a soldier; a champion. Warriors old with ordered spear and shield. Milton. Warrior ant (Zoöl.), a reddish ant (Formica sanguinea) native of Europe and America. It is one of the species which move in armies to capture and enslave other ants. WARRIORESS War"rior*ess, n. Defn: A female warrior. [Obs.] Spenser. WARRY War"ry, v. t. Defn: See Warye. [Obs.] WARSAW War"saw, n. (Zoöl.) (a) The black grouper (Epinephelus nigritus) of the southern coasts of the United States. (b) The jewfish; -- called also guasa. WART Wart, n. Etym: [OE. werte, AS. wearte; akin to D. wrat, G. warze, OHG. warza, Icel. varta, Sw. vårta, Dan. vorte; perh. orig., a growth, and akin to E. wort; or cf. L. verruca wart.] 1. (Med.) Defn: A small, usually hard, tumor on the skin formed by enlargement of its vascular papillæ, and thickening of the epidermis which covers them. 2. An excrescence or protuberance more or less resembling a true wart; specifically (Bot.), a glandular excrescence or hardened protuberance on plants. Fig wart, Moist wart (Med.), a soft, bright red, pointed or tufted tumor found about the genitals, often massed into groups of large size. It is a variety of condyloma. Called also pointed wart, venereal wart. L. A. Duhring. -- Wart cress (Bot.), the swine's cress. See under Swine. -- Wart snake (Zoöl.), any one of several species of East Indian colubrine snakes of the genus Acrochordus, having the body covered with wartlike tubercles or spinose scales, and lacking cephalic plates and ventral scutes. -- Wart spurge (Bot.),