[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

either jaw; a maxilla or a mandible. JAWED Jawed, a. Defn: Having jaws; -- chiefly in composition; as, lantern-jawed. "Jawed like a jetty." Skelton. JAW-FALL Jaw"-fall`, n. Defn: Depression of the jaw; hence, depression of spirits. M. Griffith (1660). JAW-FALLEN Jaw"-fall`en, a. Defn: Dejected; chopfallen. JAWFOOT Jaw"foot`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: See Maxilliped. JAWING Jaw"ing, n. Defn: Scolding; clamorous or abusive talk. [Slang] H. Kingsley. JAWN Jawn, v. i. Defn: See Yawn. [Obs.] Marston. JAWY Jaw"y, a. Defn: Relating to the jaws. Gayton. JAY Jay, n. Etym: [F. geai, OF. gai, jaj, perh. fr. OHG. gahi. Cf. Gay.] (Zoöl.) Defn: Any one of the numerous species of birds belonging to Garrulus, Cyanocitta, and allied genera. They are allied to the crows, but are smaller, more graceful in form, often handsomely colored, and usually have a crest. Note: The European jay (Garrulus glandarius) is a large and handsomely colored species, having the body pale reddish brown, lighter beneath; tail and wing quills blackish; the primary coverts barred with bright blue and black; throat, tail coverts, and a large spot on the wings, white. Called also jay pie, Jenny jay, and kæ. The common blue jay (Cyanocitta cristata.), and the related species, are brilliantly colored, and have a large erectile crest. The California jay (Aphelocoma Californica), the Florida jay (A. Floridana), and the green jay (Xanthoura luxuosa), of Texas and Mexico, are large, handsome, crested species. The Canada jay (Perisoreus Canadensis), and several allied species, are much plainer and have no crest. See Blue jay, and Whisky jack. Jay thrush (Zoöl.), any one several species of Asiatic singing birds, of the genera Garrulax, Grammatoptila, and related genera of the family Crateropodidæ; as; the white-throated jay thrush (G. albogularis), of India. JAYET Jay"et, n. (Min.) Defn: See Jet. [Obs.] JAYHAWKER Jay"hawk`er, n. Defn: A name given to a free-booting, unenlisted, armed man or guerrilla. Note: [A term of opprobrium used in the war of 1861-65, U. S.] JAZEL Ja"zel, n. Defn: A gem of an azure color. [Obs.] JAZERANT Jaz"er*ant, n. Etym: [OF. jacerant, jaseran, Sp. jacerina, cota jacerina, fr. jazarino Algerine, fr. Ar. jaza\'c6r Algiers.] Defn: A coat of defense made of small plates of metal sewed upon linen or the like; also, this kind of armor taken generally; as, a coat of jazerant. JEALOUS Jeal"ous, a. Etym: [OE. jalous, gelus, OF. jalous, F. jaloux, LL. zelosus zealous, fr. zelus emulation, zeal, jealousy, Gr. Zeal, and cf. Zealous.] 1. Zealous; solicitous; vigilant; anxiously watchful. I have been very jeolous for the Lord God of hosts. Kings xix. 10. How nicely jealous is every one of us of his own repute! Dr. H. More. 2. Apprehensive; anxious; suspiciously watchful. 'This doing wrong creates such doubts as these, Renders us jealous and disturbs our peace. Waller. The people are so jealous of the clergy's ambition. Swift. 3. Exacting exclusive devotion; intolerant of rivalry. Thou shalt worship no other God; for the Lord, whose name is Jealous, is a jealous God. Ex. xxxiv. 14. 4. Disposed to suspect rivalry in matters of interest and affection; apprehensive regarding the motives of possible rivals, or the fidelity of friends; distrustful; having morbid fear of rivalry in love or preference given to another; painfully suspicious of the faithfulness of husband, wife, or lover. If the spirit of jealousy come upon him, and he be jealous of his wife. Num. v. 14. To both these sisters have I sworn my love: Each jealous of the other, as the stung Are of the adder. Shak. It is one of the best bonds, both of chastity and obedience, in the wife, if she think her husband wise; which she will never do if she find him jealous. Bacon. Syn. -- Suspicious; anxious; envious. Jealous, Suspicious. Suspicious is the wider term. We suspect a person when we distrust his honesty and imagine he has some bad design. We are jealous when we suspect him of aiming to deprive us of what we dearly prize. Iago began by awakening the suspicions of Othello, and converted them at last into jealousy. "Suspicion may be excited by some kind of accusation, not supported by evidence sufficient for conviction, but sufficient to trouble the repose of confidence." "Jealousy is a painful apprehension of rivalship in cases that are peculiarly interesting to us." Cogan. JEALOUSHOOD Jeal"ous*hood, n. Defn: Jealousy. [Obs.] Shak. JEALOUSLY Jeal"ous*ly, adv. Defn: In a jealous manner. JEALOUSNESS Jeal"ous*ness, n. Defn: State or quality of being jealous. JEALOUSY Jeal"ous*y, n.; pl. Jealousies. Etym: [ F. jalousie. See Jealous, and cf. Jalousie.] Defn: The quality of being jealous; earnest concern or solicitude; painful apprehension of rivalship in cases nearly affecting one's happiness; painful suspicion of the faithfulness of husband, wife, or lover. I was jealous for jealousy. Zech. viii. 2. Jealousy is the . . . apprehension of superiority. Shenstone. Whoever had qualities to alarm our jealousy, had excellence to deserve our fondness. Rambler. JEAMES Jeames, n. Etym: [Corrup. of James.] Defn: A footman; a flunky. [Slang, Eng.] Thackeray. JEAN Jean, n. Etym: [Prob. named from Genoa. See Jane.] Defn: A twilled cotton cloth. Satin jean, a kind of jean woven smooth and glossy, after the manner of satin. JEARS Jears, n. pl. (Naut.) Defn: See 1st Jeer (b). JEAT Jeat, n. (Min.) Defn: See Jet. [Obs.] JEDDING AX Jed"ding ax`, n. Defn: A stone mason's tool, having a flat face and a pointed part. Knight. JEE Jee, v. t. & i. Defn: See Gee. JEEL Jeel, n. Etym: [Hind. jhil.] Defn: A morass; a shallow lake. [Written also jhil.] [India] Whitworth. JEER Jeer, n. Etym: [Cf. Gear.] (Naut.) (a) A gear; a tackle. (b) pl. Defn: An assemblage or combination of tackles, for hoisting or lowering the lower yards of a ship. Jeer capstan (Naut.), an extra capstan usually placed between the foremast and mainmast. JEER Jeer, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Jeered; p. pr. & vb. n. Jeering.] Etym: [Perh. a corrup. of cheer to salute with cheers, taken in an ironical sense; or more prob. fr. D. gekscheren to jeer, lit., to shear the fool; gek a fool (see 1st Geck) + scheren to shear. See Shear, v.] Defn: To utter sarcastic or scoffing reflections; to speak with mockery or derision; to use taunting language; to scoff; as, to jeer at a speaker. But when he saw her toy and gibe and jeer. Spenser. Syn. -- To sneer; scoff; flout; gibe; mock. JEER Jeer, v. t. Defn: To treat with scoffs or derision; to address with jeers; to taunt; to flout; to mock at. And if we can not jeer them, we jeer ourselves. B. Jonson. JEER Jeer, n. Defn: A railing remark or reflection; a scoff; a taunt; a biting jest; a flout; a jibe; mockery. Midas, exposed to all their jeers, Had lost his art, and kept his ears. Swift. JEERER Jeer"er, n. Defn: A scoffer; a railer; a mocker. JEERING Jeer"ing, a. Defn: Mocking; scoffing. -- n. Defn: A mocking utterance. -- Jeer"ing*ly, adv. JEERS Jeers, n. pl. (Naut.) Defn: See 1st Jeer (b). JEFFERSONIA Jef`fer*so"ni*a, n. Etym: [NL. Named after Thomas Jefferson.] (Bot.) Defn: An American herb with a pretty, white, solitary blossom, and deeply two-cleft leaves (Jeffersonia diphylla); twinleaf. JEFFERSONIAN Jef`fer*so"ni*an, a. Defn: Pertaining to, or characteristic of, Thomas Jefferson or his policy or political doctrines. Lowell. JEFFERSONIAN SIMPLICITY Jeffersonian simplicity. Defn: The absence of pomp or display which Jefferson aimed at in his administration as President (1801-1809), eschewing display or ceremony tending to distinguish the President from the people, as in going to the capital on horseback and with no escort, the abolition of court etiquette and the weekly levee, refusal to recognize titles of honor, etc. JEFFERSONITE Jef"fer*son*ite, n. Etym: [Named after Thomas Jefferson.] (Min.) Defn: A variety of pyroxene of olive-green color passing into brown. It contains zinc. JEG Jeg, n. (Mach.) Defn: See Jig, 6. JEHOVAH Je*ho"vah, n. Etym: [Heb. usually yêhovah (with the vowel points of âdonai Lord), sometimes (to avoid repetition) yêhovih (with the vowel points of êlohim God); but only the four Heb, consonants yhvh are conceded to be certainly known.] Defn: A Scripture name of the Supreme Being, by which he was revealed to the Jews as their covenant God or Sovereign of the theocracy; the "ineffable name" of the Supreme Being, which was not pronounced by the Jews. JEHOVIST Je*ho"vist, n. 1. One who maintains that the vowel points of the word Jehovah, in Hebrew, are the proper vowels of that word; -- opposed to adonist. 2. The writer of the passages of the Old Testament, especially those of the Pentateuch, in which the Supreme Being is styled Jehovah. See Elohist. The characteristic manner of the Jehovist differs from that of his predecessor [the Elohist]. He is fuller and freer in his descriptions; more reflective in his assignment of motives and causes; more artificial in mode of narration. S. Davidson. JEHOVISTIC Je`ho*vis"tic, a. Defn: Relating to, or containing, Jehovah, as a name of God; -- said of certain parts