[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

an idiot; to drivel. 3. To fall weakly and slowly. [Obs.] "The dribbling dart of love." Shak. (Meas. for Meas. , i. 3, 2). [Perhaps an error for dribbing.] DRIBBLE Drib"ble, v. t. Defn: To let fall in drops. Let the cook . . . dribble it all the way upstairs. Swift. DRIBBLE Drib"ble, n. Defn: A drizzling shower; a falling or leaking in drops. [Colloq.] DRIBBLER Drib"bler, n. Defn: One who dribbles. DRIBBLET; DRIBLET Drib"blet, Drib"let, n. Etym: [From Dribble.] Defn: A small piece or part; a small sum; a small quantity of money in making up a sum; as, the money was paid in dribblets. When made up in dribblets, as they could, their best securities were at an interest of twelve per cent. Burke. DRIE Drie, v. t. Etym: [See Dree.] Defn: To endure. [Obs.] So causeless such drede for to drie. Chaucer. DRIED Dried, imp. & p. p. Defn: of Day. Also adj.; as, dried apples. DRIER Dri"er, n. 1. One who, or that which, dries; that which may expel or absorb moisture; a desiccative; as, the sun and a northwesterly wind are great driers of the earth. 2. (Paint.) Defn: Drying oil; a substance mingled with the oil used in oil painting to make it dry quickly. DRIER; DRIEST Dri"er, compar., Dri"est, superl., Defn: of Dry, a. DRIFT Drift, n. Etym: [From drive; akin to LG. & D. drift a driving, Icel. drift snowdrift, Dan. drift, impulse, drove, herd, pasture, common, G. trift pasturage, drove. See Drive.] 1. A driving; a violent movement. The dragon drew him [self] away with drift of his wings. King Alisaunder (1332). 2. The act or motion of drifting; the force which impels or drives; an overpowering influence or impulse. A bad man, being under the drift of any passion, will follow the impulse of it till something interpose. South. 3. Course or direction along which anything is driven; setting. "Our drift was south." Hakluyt. 4. The tendency of an act, argument, course of conduct, or the like; object aimed at or intended; intention; hence, also, import or meaning of a sentence or discourse; aim. He has made the drift of the whole poem a compliment on his country in general. Addison. Now thou knowest my drift. Sir W. Scott. 5. That which is driven, forced, or urged along; as: (a) Anything driven at random. "Some log . . . a useless drift." Dryden. (b) A mass of matter which has been driven or forced onward together in a body, or thrown together in a heap, etc., esp. by wind or water; as, a drift of snow, of ice, of sand, and the like. Drifts of rising dust involve the sky. Pope. We got the brig a good bed in the rushing drift [of ice]. Kane. (c) A drove or flock, as of cattle, sheep, birds. [Obs.] Cattle coming over the bridge (with their great drift doing much damage to the high ways). Fuller. 6. (Arch.) Defn: The horizontal thrust or pressure of an arch or vault upon the abutments. [R.] Knight. 7. (Geol.) Defn: A collection of loose earth and rocks, or boulders, which have been distributed over large portions of the earth's surface, especially in latitudes north of forty degrees, by the agency of ice. 8. In South Africa, a ford in a river. 9. (Mech.) Defn: A slightly tapered tool of steel for enlarging or shaping a hole in metal, by being forced or driven into or through it; a broach. 10. (Mil.) (a) A tool used in driving down compactly the composition contained in a rocket, or like firework. (b) A deviation from the line of fire, peculiar to oblong projectiles. 11. (Mining) Defn: A passage driven or cut between shaft and shaft; a driftway; a small subterranean gallery; an adit or tunnel. 12. (Naut.) (a) The distance through which a current flows in a given time. (b) The angle which the line of a ship's motion makes with the meridian, in drifting. (c) The distance to which a vessel is carried off from her desired course by the wind, currents, or other causes. (d) The place in a deep-waisted vessel where the sheer is raised and the rail is cut off, and usually terminated with a scroll, or driftpiece. (e) The distance between the two blocks of a tackle. 13. The difference between the size of a bolt and the hole into which it is driven, or between the circumference of a hoop and that of the mast on which it is to be driven. Note: Drift is used also either adjectively or as the first part of a compound. See Drift, a. Drift of the forest (O. Eng. Law), an examination or view of the cattle in a forest, in order to see whose they are, whether they are commonable, and to determine whether or not the forest is surcharged. Burrill. DRIFT Drift, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Drifted; p. pr. & vb. n. Drifting.] 1. To float or be driven along by, or as by, a current of water or air; as, the ship drifted astern; a raft drifted ashore; the balloon drifts slowly east. We drifted o'er the harbor bar. Coleridge. 2. To accumulate in heaps by the force of wind; to be driven into heaps; as, snow or sand drifts. 3. (mining) Defn: to make a drift; to examine a vein or ledge for the purpose of ascertaining the presence of metals or ores; to follow a vein; to prospect. [U.S.] DRIFT Drift, v. t. 1. To drive or carry, as currents do a floating body. J. H. Newman. 2. To drive into heaps; as, a current of wind drifts snow or sand. 3. (Mach.) Defn: To enlarge or shape, as a hole, with a drift. DRIFT Drift, a. Defn: That causes drifting or that is drifted; movable by wind or currents; as, drift currents; drift ice; drift mud. Kane. Drift anchor. See Sea anchor, and also Drag sail, under Drag, n. -- Drift epoch (Geol.), the glacial epoch. -- Drift net, a kind of fishing net. -- Drift sail. Same as Drag sail. See under Drag, n. DRIFTAGE Drift"age, n. 1. Deviation from a ship's course due to leeway. 2. Anything that drifts. DRIFTBOLT Drift"bolt`, n. Defn: A bolt for driving out other bolts. DRIFTLESS Drift"less, a. Defn: Having no drift or direction; without aim; purposeless. DRIFTPIECE Drift"piece", n. (Shipbuilding) Defn: An upright or curved piece of timber connecting the plank sheer with the gunwale; also, a scroll terminating a rail. DRIFTPIN Drift"pin`, n. (Mech.) Defn: A smooth drift. See Drift, n., 9. DRIFTWAY Drift"way`, n. 1. A common way, road, or path, for driving cattle. Cowell. Burrill. 2. (Mining) Defn: Same as Drift, 11. DRIFTWEED Drift"weed`, n. Defn: Seaweed drifted to the shore by the wind. Darwin. DRIFTWIND Drift"wind`, n. Defn: A driving wind; a wind that drives snow, sand, etc., into heaps. Beau. & Fl. DRIFTWOOD Drift"wood`, n. 1. Wood drifted or floated by water. 2. Fig.: Whatever is drifting or floating as on water. The current of humanity, with its heavy proportion of very useless driftwood. New Your Times. DRIFTY Drift"y, a. Defn: Full of drifts; tending to form drifts, as snow, and the like. DRILL Drill, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Drilled; p. pr. & vb. n. Drilling.] Etym: [D. drillen to bore, drill (soldiers); probably akin to AS. pyrlian, pyrelian, to pierce. See Thrill.] 1. To pierce or bore with a drill, or a with a drill; to perforate; as, to drill a hole into a rock; to drill a piece of metal. 2. To train in the military art; to exercise diligently, as soldiers, in military evolutions and exercises; hence, to instruct thoroughly in the rudiments of any art or branch of knowledge; to discipline. He [Frederic the Great] drilled his people, as he drilled his grenadiers. Macaulay. DRILL Drill, v. i. Defn: To practice an exercise or exercises; to train one's self. DRILL Drill, n. 1. An instrument with an edged or pointed end used for making holes in hard substances; strictly, a tool that cuts with its end, by revolving, as in drilling metals, or by a succession of blows, as in drilling stone; also, a drill press. 2. (Mil.) Defn: The act or exercise of training soldiers in the military art, as in the manual of arms, in the execution of evolutions, and the like; hence, diligent and strict instruction and exercise in the rudiments and methods of any business; a kind or method of military exercises; as, infantry drill; battalion drill; artillery drill. 3. Any exercise, physical or mental, enforced with regularity and by constant repetition; as, a severe drill in Latin grammar. 4. (Zoöl.) Defn: A marine gastropod, of several species, which kills oysters and other bivalves by drilling holes through the shell. The most destructive kind is Urosalpinx cinerea. Bow drill, Breast drill. See under Bow, Breast. -- Cotter drill, or Traverse drill, a machine tool