[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

thickness; as, the longitude of a room; rare now, except in a humorous sense. Sir H. Wotton. The longitude of their cloaks. Sir. W. Scott. Mine [shadow] spindling into longitude immense. Cowper. 2. (Geog.) Defn: The arc or portion of the equator intersected between the meridian of a given place and the meridian of some other place from which longitude is reckoned, as from Greenwich, England, or sometimes from the capital of a country, as from Washington or Paris. The longitude of a place is expressed either in degrees or in time; as, that of New York is 74º or 4 h. 56 min. west of Greenwich. 3. (Astron.) Defn: The distance in degrees, reckoned from the vernal equinox, on the ecliptic, to a circle at right angles to the ecliptic passing through the heavenly body whose longitude is designated; as, the longitude of Capella is 79º. Geocentric longitude (Astron.), the longitude of a heavenly body as seen from the earth. -- Heliocentric longitude, the longitude of a heavenly body, as seen from the sun's center. -- Longitude stars, certain stars whose position is known, and the data in regard to which are used in observations for finding the longitude, as by lunar distances. LONGITUDINAL Lon`gi*tu"di*nal, a. Etym: [Cf. F. longitudinal.] 1. Of or pertaining to longitude or length; as, longitudinal distance. 2. Extending in length; in the direction of the length; running lengthwise, as distinguished from transverse; as, the longitudinal diameter of a body. Cheyne. LONGITUDINAL Lon`gi*tu"di*nal, n. Defn: A railway sleeper lying parallel with the rail. LONGITUDINALLY Lon`gi*tu"di*nal*ly, adv. Defn: In the direction of length. LONGLEGS Long"legs`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: A daddy longlegs. LONG-LIVED Long"-lived`, a. Defn: Having a long life; having constitutional peculiarities which make long life probable; lasting long; as, a long-lived tree; they are a longlived family; long-lived prejudices. LONGLY Long"ly, adv. 1. With longing desire. [Obs.] Shak. 2. For a long time; hence, wearisomely. LONGMYND ROCKS Long"mynd rocks". (Geol.) Defn: The sparingly fossiliferous conglomerates, grits, schists, and states of Great Britain, which lie at the base of the Cambrian system; -- so called, because typically developed in the Longmynd Hills, Shropshire. LONGNESS Long"ness, n. Defn: Length. LONGNOSE Long"nose`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: The European garfish. LONG PRIMER Long" prim"er. (Print.) Defn: A kind of type, in size between small pica and bourgeois. Note: long primer. LONGSHANKS Long"shanks`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: The stilt. LONGSHORE Long"shore`, a. Etym: [Abbrev. from alongshore.] Defn: Belonging to the seashore or a seaport; along and on the shore. "Longshore thieves." R. Browning. LONGSHOREMAN Long"shore`man, n.; pl. Longshoremen. Etym: [Abbrev. fr. alongshoreman.] Defn: One of a class of laborers employed about the wharves of a seaport, especially in loading and unloading vessels. LONG-SIGHT Long"-sight, n. Defn: Long-sightedness Good. LONG-SIGHTED Long"-sight`ed, a. 1. Able to see objects at a great distance; hence, having great foresight; sagacious; farseeing. 2. Able to see objects distinctly at a distance, but not close at hand; hypermetropic. LONG-SIGHTEDNESS Long"-sight`ed*ness, n. 1. The state or condition of being long-sighted; hence, sagacity; shrewdness. 2. (Med.) Defn: See Hypermetropia. LONGSOME Long"some a. Etym: [AS. langsum.] Defn: Extended in length; tiresome. [Obs.] Bp. Hall. Prior. -- Long"some*ness, n. [Obs.] Fuller. LONGSPUN Long"spun`, a. Defn: Spun out, or extended, to great length; hence, long-winded; tedious. The longspun allegories fulsome grow, While the dull moral lies too plain below. Addison. LONGSPUR Long"spur`, n. Etym: [So called from the length of the hind claw.] (Zoöl.) Defn: Any one of several species of fringilline birds of the genus Calcarius (or Plectrophanes), and allied genera. The Lapland longspur (C. Lapponicus), the chestnut-colored longspur (C. ornatus), and other species, inhabit the United States. LONG-STOP Long"-stop`, n. (Cricket) Defn: One who is set to stop balls which pass the wicket keeper. LONG-SUFFERANCE Long"-suf`fer*ance, n. Defn: Forbearance to punish or resent. LONG-SUFFERING Long"-suf`fer*ing, n. Defn: Bearing injuries or provocation for a long time; patient; not easily provoked. The Lord God, merciful and gracious, long-suffering, and abundant in goodness and truth. Ex. xxxiv. 6. LONG-SUFFERING Long"-suf`fer*ing, n. Defn: Long patience of offense. Despisest thou the riches of his goodness and forbearance and long- suffering Rom. ii. 4. LONGTAIL Long"tail`, n. Defn: An animal, particularly a log, having an uncut tail. Cf. Curtail. Dog. Note: A longtail was a gentleman's dog, or the dog of one qualified to bunt, other dogs being required to have their tails cut. Cut and longtail, all, gentlefolks and others, as they might come. Shak. LONG-TONGUE Long"-tongue`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: The wryneck. LONG-TONGUED Long"-tongued`, a. 1. Having a long tongue. 2. Talkative; babbling; loquacious. Shak. LONGULITE Lon"gu*lite, n. Etym: [L. longus long + -lie.] (Min.) Defn: A kind of crystallite having a (slender) acicular form. LONG-WAISTED Long"-waist`ed, a. 1. Having a long waist; long from the armpits to the armpits to the bottom of the waist; -- said of persons. 2. Long from the part about the neck or shoulder, or from the armpits, to the bottom of the weist, or to the skirt; -- said of garments; as, a long-waisted coat. LONGWAYS Long"ways`, adv. Defn: Lengthwise. Addison. LONG-WINDED Long"-wind"ed, a. Defn: Long-breathed; hence, tediously long in speaking; consuming much time; as, a long-winded talker. -- Long"-wind"ed*ness, n. A tedious, long-winded harangue. South. LONGWISE Long"wise`, adv. Defn: Lengthwise. LOO Loo, n. Etym: [For older lanterloo, F. lanturelu, lanturlu, name of the game; orig., the refrain of a vaudeville.] (a) An old game played with five, or three, cards dealt to each player from a full pack. When five cards are used the highest card is the knave of clubs or (if so agreed upon) the knave of trumps; -- formerly called lanterloo. (b) A modification of the game of "all fours" in which the players replenish their hands after each round by drawing each a card from the pack. Loo table, a round table adapted for a circle of persons playing loo. LOO Loo, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Looed; p. pr. & vb. n. Looing.] Defn: To beat in the game of loo by winning every trick. [Written also lu.] Goldsmith. LOOB Loob, n. Etym: [Corn., slime, sludge.] (Mining) Defn: The clay or slimes washed from tin ore in dressing. LOOBILY Loo"bi*ly, a. Etym: [From Looby.] Defn: Loobylike; awkward. Fuller. LOOBILY Loo"bi*ly, adv. Defn: Awkwardly. L'Estrange. LOOBY Loo"by, n.; pl. Loobies. Etym: [Cf. Lob.] Defn: An awkward, clumsy fellow; a lubber. Swift. LOOCH Looch, n. Defn: See 2d Loch. LOOF Loof, n. (Bot.) Defn: The spongelike fibers of the fruit of a cucurbitaceous plant (Luffa Ægyptiaca); called also vegetable sponge. LOOF Loof, n. Etym: [See Luff.] [Also written luff.] (Naut.) (a) Formerly, some appurtenance of a vessel which was used in changing her course; -- probably a large paddle put over the lee bow to help bring her head nearer to the wind. (b) The part of a ship's side where the planking begins to curve toward bow and stern. LOOF Loof, v. i. (Naut.) Defn: See Luff. LOOK Look, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Looked; p. pr. & vb. n. Looking.] Etym: [OE. loken, AS. locian; akin to G. lugen, OHG. luogen.] 1. To direct the eyes for the purpose of seeing something; to direct the eyes toward an object; to observe with the eyes while keeping them directed; -- with various prepositions, often in a special or figurative sense. See Phrases below. 2. To direct the attention (to something); to consider; to examine; as, to look at an action. 3. To seem; to appear; to have a particular appearance; as, the patient looks better; the clouds look rainy. It would look more like vanity than gratitude. Addison. Observe how such a practice looks in another person. I. Watts. 4. To have a particular direction or situation; to face; to front. The inner gate that looketh to north. Ezek. viii. 3. The east gate . . . which looketh eastward. Ezek. xi. 1. 5. In the imperative: see; behold; take notice; take care; observe; - - used to call attention. Look, how much we thus expel of sin, so much we expel of virtue. Milton. Note: Look, in the imperative, may be followed by a dependent sentence, but see is oftener so used. Look that ye bind them fast. Shak. Look if it be my daughter. Talfourd. 6. To show one's self in looking, as by leaning out of a window; as, look out of the window while I speak to you. Sometimes used figuratively. My toes look through the overleather. Shak. 7. To await the appearance of anything; to expect; to anticipate. Looking each hour into death's mouth to fall. Spenser. To look about, to look on all sides, or in different directions. -- To look about one, to be on the watch; to be vigilant; to be circumspect or guarded. -- To look after. (a) To attend to; to take care of; as, to look after children. (b) To expect; to be in a state of expectation. Men's hearts failing them for fear, and for looking after those things which are