[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

or two consonant notes. -- Harmonical mean (Arith. & Alg.), certain relations of numbers and quantities, which bear an analogy to musical consonances. -- Harmonic motion, the motion of the point A, of the foot of the perpendicular PA, when P moves uniformly in the circumference of a circle, and PA is drawn perpendicularly upon a fixed diameter of the circle. This is simple harmonic motion. The combinations, in any way, of two more simple harmonic motions, make other kinds of harmonic motion. The motion of the pendulum bob of a clock is approximately simple harmonic motion. -- Harmonic proportion. See under Proportion. -- Harmonic series or progression. See under Progression. -- Spherical harmonic analysis, a mathematical method, sometimes referred to as that of Laplace's Coefficients, which has for its object the expression of an arbitrary, periodic function of two independent variables, in the proper form for a large class of physical problems, involving arbitrary data, over a spherical surface, and the deduction of solutions for every point of space. The functions employed in this method are called spherical harmonic functions. Thomson & Tait. -- Harmonic suture (Anat.), an articulation by simple apposition of comparatively smooth surfaces or edges, as between the two superior maxillary bones in man; -- called also harmonic, and harmony. -- Harmonic triad (Mus.), the chord of a note with its third and fifth; the common chord. HARMONIC Har*mon"ic, n. (Mus.) Defn: A musical note produced by a number of vibrations which is a multiple of the number producing some other; an overtone. See Harmonics. HARMONICA Har*mon"i*ca, n. Etym: [Fem. fr. L. harmonicus harmonic. See Harmonic, n. ] 1. A musical instrument, consisting of a series of hemispherical glasses which, by touching the edges with the dampened finger, give forth the tones. 2. A toy instrument of strips of glass or metal hung on two tapes, and struck with hammers. HARMONICALLY Har* mon"ic*al*ly, adv. 1. In an harmonical manner; harmoniously. 2. In respect to harmony, as distinguished from melody; as, a passage harmonically correct. 3. (Math.) Defn: In harmonical progression. HARMONICON Har*mon"i*con, n. Defn: A small, flat, wind instrument of music, in which the notes are produced by the vibration of free metallic reeds. HARMONICS Har*mon"ics, n. 1. The doctrine or science of musical sounds. 2. pl. (Mus.) Defn: Secondary and less distinct tones which accompany any principal, and apparently simple, tone, as the octave, the twelfth, the fifteenth, and the seventeenth. The name is also applied to the artificial tones produced by a string or column of air, when the impulse given to it suffices only to make a part of the string or column vibrate; overtones. HARMONIOUS Har*mo"ni*ous, a. Etym: [Cf. F. harmonieux. See Harmony.] 1. Adapted to each other; having parts proportioned to each other; symmetrical. God hath made the intellectual world harmonious and beautiful without us. Locke. 2. Acting together to a common end; agreeing in action or feeling; living in peace and friendship; as, an harmonious family. 3. Vocally or musically concordant; agreeably consonant; symphonious. -- Har*mo"ni*ous*ly, adv. -- Har*mo"ni*ous*ness, n. HARMONIPHON Har*mon"i*phon, n. Etym: [Gr. (Mus.) Defn: An obsolete wind instrument with a keyboard, in which the sound, which resembled the oboe, was produced by the vibration of thin metallic plates, acted upon by blowing through a tube. HARMONIST Har"mo*nist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. harmoniste.] 1. One who shows the agreement or harmony of corresponding passages of different authors, as of the four evangelists. 2. (Mus.) Defn: One who understands the principles of harmony or is skillful in applying them in composition; a musical composer. HARMONIST; HARMONITE Har"mo*nist, Har"mo*nite, n. (Eccl. Hist.) Defn: One of a religious sect, founded in Würtemburg in the last century, composed of followers of George Rapp, a weaver. They had all their property in common. In 1803, a portion of this sect settled in Pennsylvania and called the village thus established, Harmony. HARMONIUM Har*mo"ni*um, n. Etym: [NL. See Harmony. ] Defn: A musical instrument, resembling a small organ and especially designed for church music, in which the tones are produced by forcing air by means of a bellows so as to cause the vibration of free metallic reeds. It is now made with one or two keyboards, and has pedals and stops. HARMONIZATION Har`mo*ni*za"tion, n. Defn: The act of harmonizing. HARMONIZE Har"mo*nize, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Harmonized; p. pr. & vb. n. Harmonizing.] Etym: [Cf. F. harmoniser. ] 1. To agree in action, adaptation, or effect on the mind; to agree in sense or purport; as, the parts of a mechanism harmonize. 2. To be in peace and friendship, as individuals, families, or public organizations. 3. To agree in vocal or musical effect; to form a concord; as, the tones harmonize perfectly. HARMONIZE Har"mo*nize, v. t. 1. To adjust in fit proportions; to cause to agree; to show the agreement of; to reconcile the apparent contradiction of. 2. (Mus.) Defn: To accompany with harmony; to provide with parts, as an air, or melody. HARMONIZER Har"mo*ni`zer, n. Defn: One who harmonizes. HARMONOMETER Har`mo*nom"e*ter, n. Etym: [Gr. meter: cf. F. harmonometre.] Defn: An instrument for measuring the harmonic relations of sounds. It is often a monochord furnished with movable bridges. HARMONY Har"mo*ny, n.; pl. Harmonies. Etym: [ F.harmonic, L. harmonia, Gr. Article. ] 1. The just adaptation of parts to each other, in any system or combination of things, or in things, or things intended to form a connected whole; such an agreement between the different parts of a design or composition as to produce unity of effect; as, the harmony of the universe. 2. Concord or agreement in facts, opinions, manners, interests, etc.; good correspondence; peace and friendship; as, good citizens live in harmony. 3. A literary work which brings together or arranges systematically parallel passages of historians respecting the same events, and shows their agreement or consistency; as, a harmony of the Gospels. 4. (Mus.) (a) A succession of chords according to the rules of progression and modulation. (b) The science which treats of their construction and progression. Ten thousand harps, that tuned Angelic harmonies. Milton. 5. (Anat.) Defn: See Harmonic suture, under Harmonic. Close harmony, Dispersed harmony, etc. See under Close, Dispersed, etc. -- Harmony of the spheres. See Music of the spheres, under Music. Syn. -- Harmony, Melody. Harmony results from the concord of two or more strains or sounds which differ in pitch and quality. Melody denotes the pleasing alternation and variety of musical and measured sounds, as they succeed each other in a single verse or strain. HARMOST Har"most, n. Etym: [Gr. , fr. harmoste. See Harmony.] (Gr. Antiq.) Defn: A governor or prefect appointed by the Spartans in the cities subjugated by them. HARMOTOME Har"mo*tome, n. Etym: [Gr. harmotome.] (Min.) Defn: A hydrous silicate of alumina and baryta, occurring usually in white cruciform crystals; cross-stone. Note: A related mineral, called lime harmotome, and Phillipsite, contains lime in place of baryta. Dana. HARNESS Har"ness, n. Etym: [OE. harneis, harnes, OF.harneis, F. harnais, harnois; of Celtic origin; cf. Armor. harnez old iron, armor, W. haiarn iron, Armor. houarn, Ir. iarann, Gael. iarunn. Gf. Iron.] 1. Originally, the complete dress, especially in a military sense, of a man or a horse; hence, in general, armor. At least we 'll die witch harness on our back. Shak. 2. The equipment of a draught or carriage horse, for drawing a wagon, coach, chaise, etc.; gear; tackling. 3. The part of a loom comprising the heddles, with their means of support and motion, by which the threads of the warp are alternately raised and depressed for the passage of the shuttle. To die in harness, to die with armor on; hence, colloquially, to die while actively engaged in work or duty. HARNESS Har"ness, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Harnessed; p. pr. & vb. n. Harnessing.] Etym: [OE. harneisen; cf. F. harnacher, OF. harneschier.] 1. To dress in armor; to equip with armor for war, as a horseman; to array. Harnessed in rugged steel. Rowe. A gay dagger, Harnessed well and sharp as point of spear. Chaucer. 2. Fig.: To equip or furnish for defense. Dr. H. More. 3. To make ready for draught; to equip with harness, as a horse. Also used figuratively. Harnessed to some regular profession. J. C. Shairp. Harnessed antelope. (Zoöl.) See Guib. -- Harnessed moth (Zoöl.), an American bombycid moth (Arctia phalerata of Harris), having, on the fore wings, stripes and bands of buff on a black ground. HARNESS CASK Har"ness cask`. (Naut.) Defn: A tub lashed to a vessel's deck and containing salted provisions for daily use; -- called also harness tub. W. C. Russell. HARNESSER Har"ness*er, n. Defn: One who harnesses. HARNS Harns, n. pl. Etym: [Akin to Icel.hjarni, Dan. hierne.] Defn: The brains. [Scot.] HARP Harp, n. Etym: [OE. harpe, AS. hearpe; akin to D. harp, G.harfe, OHG. harpha, Dan. harpe, Icel. & Sw. harpa.] 1. A musical instrument consisting of a triangular frame furnished with strings and sometimes with pedals, held upright, and played with