[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

Specific character (Nat. Hist.), a characteristic or characteristics distinguishing one species from every other species of the same genus. -- Specific disease (Med.) (a) A disease which produces a determinate definite effect upon the blood and tissues or upon some special tissue. (b) A disease which is itself uniformly produced by a definite and peculiar poison or organism. -- Specific duty. (Com.) See under Duty. -- Specific gravity. (Physics) See under Gravity. -- Specific heat (Physics), the quantity of heat required to raise temperature of a body one degree, taking as the unit of measure the quantity required to raise the same weight of water from zero to one degree; thus, the specific heat of mercury is 0.033, that of water being 1.000. -- Specific inductive capacity (Physics), the effect of a dielectric body in producing static electric induction as compared with that of some other body or bodies referred to as a standard. -- Specific legacy (Law), a bequest of a particular thing, as of a particular animal or piece of furniture, specified and distinguished from all others. Wharton. Burrill. -- Specific name (Nat., Hist.), the name which, appended to the name of the genus, constitutes the distinctive name of the species; -- originally applied by Linnæus to the essential character of the species, or the essential difference. The present specific name he at first called the trivial name. -- Specific performance (Law), the peformance of a contract or agreement as decreed by a court of equity. SPECIFIC Spe*cif"ic, n. 1. (Med.) Defn: A specific remedy. See Specific, a., 3. His parents were weak enough to believe that the royal touch was a specific for this malady. Macaulay. 2. Anything having peculiar adaption to the purpose to which it is applied. Dr. H. More. SPECIFICAL Spe*cif"ic*al, a. Defn: Specific. Bacon. SPECIFICALLY Spe*cif"ic*al*ly, adv. Defn: In a specific manner. SPECIFICALNESS Spe*cif"ic*al*ness, n. Defn: The quality of being specific. SPECIFICATE Spe*cif"i*cate, v. t. Etym: [See Specify.] Defn: To show, mark, or designate the species, or the distinguishing particulars of; to specify. [Obs.] ir M. Hale. SPECIFICATION Spec`i*fi*ca"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. spécification, LL. specificatio.] 1. The act of specifying or determining by a mark or limit; notation of limits. This specification or limitation of the question hinders the disputers from wandering away from the precise point of inquiry. I. Watts. 2. The designation of particulars; particular mention; as, the specification of a charge against an officer. 3. A written statement containing a minute description or enumeration of particulars, as of charges against a public officer, the terms of a contract, the description of an invention, as in a patent; also, a single article, item, or particular, an allegation of a specific act, as in a charge of official misconduct. SPECIFICNESS Spe*cif"ic*ness, n. Defn: The quality or state of being specific. SPECIFY Spec"i*fy, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Specified; p. pr. & vb. n. Specifying.] Etym: [F. spécifier, or OF. especifier, fr. LL. specificare. See Species, -fy.] Defn: To mention or name, as a particular thing; to designate in words so as to distinguish from other things; as, to specify the uses of a plant; to specify articles purchased. He has there given us an exact geography of Greece, where the countries and the uses of their soils are specified. Pope. SPECILLUM Spe*cil"lum, n. Etym: [L.] (Med.) Defn: See Stylet, 2. SPECIMEN Spec"i*men, n. Etym: [L., fr. specere to look, to behold. See Spy.] Defn: A part, or small portion, of anything, or one of a number of things, intended to exhibit the kind and quality of the whole, or of what is not exhibited; a sample; as, a specimen of a man's handwriting; a specimen of painting; aspecimen of one's art. Syn. -- Sample; model; pattern. -- Specimen, Sample. A specimen is a representative of the class of things to which it belongs; as, a specimen of photography. A sample is a part of the thing itself, designed to show the quality of the whole; as, a sample of sugar or of broadcloth. A cabinet of minerals consists of specimens; if a part be broken off from any one of these, it is a sample of the mineral to which it belongs. "Several persons have exhibited specimens of this art before multitudes of beholders." Addison. "I design this but for a sample of what I hope more fully to discuss." Woodward. SPECIOSITY Spe`ci*os"i*ty, n.; pl. Speciocities. Etym: [Cf. LL. speciositas.] 1. The quality or state of being specious; speciousness. Professions built so largely on speciosity, instead of performance. Carlyle. 2. That which is specious. Dr. H. More. SPECIOUS Spe"cious, a. Etym: [L. speciosusgood-looking, beautiful, specious, fr. species look, show, appearance; cf. F. spécoeux. See Species.] 1. Presenting a pleasing appearance; pleasing in form or look; showy. Some [serpents] specious and beautiful to the eye. Bp. Richardson. The rest, far greater part, Will deem in outward rites and specious forms Religion satisfied. Milton. 2. Apparently right; superficially fair, just, or correct, but not so in reality; appearing well at first view; plausible; as, specious reasoning; a specious argument. Misled for a moment by the specious names of religion, liberty, and property. Macaulay. In consequence of their greater command of specious expression. J. Morley. Syn. -- Plausible; showy; ostensible; colorable; feasible. See Plausible. -- Spe"xious*ly, adv. -- Spe"cious*ness, n. SPECK Speck, n. Etym: [Cf. Icel. spik blubber, AS. spic, D. spek, G. speck.] Defn: The blubber of whales or other marine mammals; also, the fat of the hippopotamus. Speck falls (Naut.), falls or ropes rove through blocks for hoisting the blubber and bone of whales on board a whaling vessel. SPECK Speck, n. Etym: [OE. spekke, AS. specca; cf. LG. spaak.] 1. A small discolored place in or on anything, or a small place of a color different from that of the main substance; a spot; a stain; a blemish; as, a speck on paper or loth; specks of decay in fruit. "Gray sand, with black specks." Anson. 2. A very small thing; a particle; a mite; as, specks of dust; he has not a speck of money. Many bright specks bubble up along the blue Egean. Landor. 3. (Zoöl.) Defn: A small etheostomoid fish (Ulocentra stigmæa) common in the Eastern United States. SPECK Speck, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Specked; p. pr. & vb. n. Specking.] Defn: To cause the presence of specks upon or in, especially specks regarded as defects or blemishes; to spot; to speckle; as, paper specked by impurities in the water used in its manufacture. Carnation, purple, azure, or specked with gold. Milton. SPECKLE Spec"kle, n. Etym: [Dim. of speck; cf. D. spikkel.] Defn: A little or spot in or anything, of a different substance or color from that of the thing itself. An huge great serpent, all with speckles pied. Spebser. SPECKLE Spec"kle, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Speckled; p. pr. & vb. n. Speckling.] Defn: To mark with small spots of a different color from that of the rest of the surface; to variegate with spots of a different color from the ground or surface. SPECKLED Spec"kled, a. Defn: Marked or variegated with small spots of a different color from that of the rest of the surface. Speckled Indians (Ethnol.), the Pintos. -- Speckled trout. (Zoöl.) (a) The common American brook trout. See Trout. (b) The rainbow trout. SPECKLED-BELLY Spec"kled-bel`ly, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: The gadwall. [Local, U.S.] SPECKLED-BILL Spec"kled-bill", n. (Zoöl.) Defn: The American white-fronted goose (Anser albifrons). SPECKLEDNESS Spec"kled*ness, n. Defn: The quality of being speckled. SPECKSIONEER Speck`sion*eer", n. Defn: The chief harpooner, who also directs in cutting up the speck, or blubber; -- so called among whalers. SPECKT Speckt, n. Defn: A woodpecker. See Speight. SPECTACLE Spec"ta*cle, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. spectaculum, fr. spectare to look at, to behold, v. intens. fr. specere. See Spy.] 1. Something exhibited to view; usually, something presented to view as extraordinary, or as unusual and worthy of special notice; a remarkable or noteworthy sight; a show; a pageant; a gazingstock. O, piteous spectacle O, bloody times! Shak. 2. A spy-glass; a looking-glass. [Obs.] Poverty a spectacle is, as thinketh me, Through which he may his very friends see. Chaucer. 3. pl. Defn: An optical instrument consisting of two lenses set in a light frame, and worn to assist sight, to obviate some defect in the organs of vision, or to shield the eyes from bright light. 4. pl. Defn: Fig.: An aid to the intellectual sight. Shakespeare . . . needed not the spectacles of books to read nature. Dryden. Syn. -- Show; sight; exhibition; representation; pageant. SPECTACLED Spec"ta*cled, a. 1. Furnished with spectacles; wearing spectacles. As spectacled she sits in chimney nook. Keats. 2. (Zoöl.) Defn: Having the eyes surrounded by color markings, or patches of naked skin, resembling spectacles. Spectacled bear (Zoöl.), a South American bear (Tremarclos ornatus) which inhabits the high mountains of Chili and Peru. It has a light-colored ring around each eye. -- Spectacled coot, or Spectacled duck (Zoöl.),