[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

much resembles the European aspen. See Aspen. -- Quaking bog, a bog of forming peat so saturated with water that it shakes when trodden upon. -- Quaking grass. (Bot.) (a) One of several grasses of the genus Briza, having slender-stalked and pendulous ovate spikelets, which quake and rattle in the wind. Briza maxima is the large quaking grass; B. media and B. minor are the smaller kinds. (b) Rattlesnake grass (Glyceria Canadensis). QUAKINGLY Quak"ing*ly, adv. Defn: In a quaking manner; fearfully. Sir P. Sidney. QUAKY Quak"y, a. Defn: Shaky, or tremulous; quaking. QUALIFIABLE Qual"i*fi`a*ble, a. Defn: Capable of being qualified; abatable; modifiable. Barrow. QUALIFICATION Qual`i*fi*ca"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. qualification. See Qualify.] 1. The act of qualifying, or the condition of being qualified. 2. That which qualifies; any natural endowment, or any acquirement, which fits a person for a place, office, or employment, or which enables him to sustian any character with success; an enabling quality or circumstance; requisite capacity or possession. There is no qualification for government but virtue and wisdom, actual or presumptive. Burke. 3. The act of limiting, or the state of being limited; that which qualifies by limiting; modification; restriction; hence, abatement; diminution; as, to use words without any qualification. QUALIFICATIVE Qual"i*fi*ca*tive, n. Defn: That which qualifies, modifies, or restricts; a qualifying term or statement. How many qualificatives, correctives, and restrictives he inserteth in this relation. Fuller. QUALIFICATOR Qual"i*fi*ca`tor, n. Etym: [LL.] (R. C. Ch.) Defn: An officer whose business it is to examine and prepare causes for trial in the ecclesiastical courts. QUALIFIED Qual"i*fied, a. 1. Fitted by accomplishments or endowments. 2. Modified; limited; as, a qualified statement. Qualified fee (Law), a base fee, or an estate which has a qualification annexed to it, the fee ceasing with the qualification, as a grant to A and his heirs, tenants of the manor of Dale. -- Qualified indorsement (Law), an indorsement which modifies the liability of the indorser that would result from the general principles of law, but does not affect the negotiability of the instrument. Story. -- Qualified negative (Legislation), a limited veto power, by which the chief executive in a constitutional government may refuse assent to bills passed by the legislative body, which bills therefore fail to become laws unless upon a reconsideration the legislature again passes them by a certain majority specified in the constitution, when they become laws without the approval of the executive. Qualified property (Law), that which depends on temporary possession, as that in wild animals reclaimed, or as in the case of a bailment. Syn. -- Competent; fit; adapted. -- Qualified, Competent. Competent is most commonly used with respect to native endowments and general ability suited to the performance of a task or duty; qualified with respect to specific acquirements and training. QUALIFIEDLY Qual"i*fied`ly, adv. Defn: In the way of qualification; with modification or qualification. QUALIFIEDNESS Qual"i*fied`ness, n. Defn: The state of being qualified. QUALIFIER Qual"i*fi`er Defn: , One who, or that which, qualifies; that which modifies, reduces, tempers or restrains. QUALIFY Qual"i*fy, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Qualified; p. pr. & vb. n. Qualifying.] Etym: [F. qualifier, LL. qualificare, fr. L. qualis how constituted, as + -ficare (in comp.) to make. See Quality, and -Fy.] 1. To make such as is required; to give added or requisite qualities to; to fit, as for a place, office, occupation, or character; to furnish with the knowledge, skill, or other accomplishment necessary for a purpose; to make capable, as of an employment or privilege; to supply with legal power or capacity. He had qualified himself for municipal office by taking the oaths to the sovereigns in possession. Macaulay. 2. To give individual quality to; to modulate; to vary; to regulate. It hath no larynx . . . to qualify the sound. Sir T. Browne. 3. To reduce from a general, undefined, or comprehensive form, to particular or restricted form; to modify; to limit; to restrict; to restrain; as, to qualify a statement, claim, or proposition. 4. Hence, to soften; to abate; to diminish; to assuage; to reduce the strength of, as liquors. I do not seek to quench your love's hot fire, But qualify the fire's extreme rage. Shak. 5. To soothe; to cure; -- said of persons. [Obs.] In short space he has them qualified. Spenser. Syn. -- To fit; equip; prepare; adapt; capacitate; enable; modify; soften; restrict; restrain; temper. QUALIFY Qual"i*fy, v. i. 1. To be or become qualified; to be fit, as for an office or employment. 2. To obtain legal power or capacity by taking the oath, or complying with the forms required, on assuming an office. QUALITATIVE Qual"i*ta*tive, a. Etym: [Cf. LL. gualitativus, F. qualitatif.] Defn: Relating to quality; having the character of quality. -- Qual"i*ta*tive*ly, adv. Qualitative analysis (Chem.), analysis which merely determines the constituents of a substance without any regard to the quantity of each ingredient; -- contrasted with quantitative analysis. QUALITIED Qual"i*tied, a. Defn: Furnished with qualities; endowed. [Obs.] "He was well qualitied." Chapman. QUALITY Qual"i*ty, n.; pl. Qualities. Etym: [F. qualité, L. qualitas, fr. qualis how constituted, as; akin to E. which. See Which.] 1. The condition of being of such and such a sort as distinguished from others; nature or character relatively considered, as of goods; character; sort; rank. We lived most joyful, obtaining acquaintance with many of the city not of the meanest quality. Bacon 2. Special or temporary character; profession; occupation; assumed or asserted rank, part, or position. I made that inquiry in quality of an antiquary. Gray. 3. That which makes, or helps to make, anything such as it is; anything belonging to a subject, or predicable of it; distinguishing property, characteristic, or attribute; peculiar power, capacity, or virtue; distinctive trait; as, the tones of a flute differ from those of a violin in quality; the great quality of a statesman. Note: Qualities, in metaphysics, are primary or secondary. Primary are those essential to the existence, and even the conception, of the thing, as of matter or spirit Secondary are those not essential to such a conception. 4. An acquired trait; accomplishment; acquisition. He had those qualities of horsemanship, dancing, and fencing which accompany a good breeding. Clarendon. 5. Superior birth or station; high rank; elevated character. "Persons of quality." Bacon. Quality binding, a kind of worsted tape used in Scotland for binding carpets, and the like. The quality, those of high rank or station, as distinguished from the masses, or common people; the nobility; the gentry. I shall appear at the masquerade dressed up in my feathers, that the quality may see how pretty they will look in their traveling habits. Addison. Syn. -- Property; attribute; nature; peculiarity; character; sort; rank; disposition; temper. QUALM Qualm, n. Etym: [AS. cwealm death, slaughter, pestilence, akin to OS. & OHG. qualm. See Quail to cower.] 1. Sickness; disease; pestilence; death. [Obs.] thousand slain and not of qualm ystorve [dead]. Chaucer. 2. A sudden attack of illness, faintness, or pain; an agony. " Qualms of heartsick agony." Milton. 3. Especially, a sudden sensation of nausea. For who, without a qualm, hath ever looked On holy garbage, though by Homer cooked Roscommon. 4. A prick or scruple of conscience; uneasiness of conscience; compunction. Dryden. QUALMISH Qualm"ish, a. Defn: Sick at the stomach; affected with nausea or sickly languor; inclined to vomit. Shak. -- Qualm"ish*ly, adv. -- Qualm"ish*ness, n. QUAMASH Quam"ash, n. (Bot.) Defn: See Camass. QUAMOCLIT Quam"o*clit, n. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.) Defn: Formerly, a genus of plants including the cypress vine (Quamoclit vulgaris, now called Ipomoea Quamoclit). The genus is now merged in Ipomoea. QUANDARY Quan"da*ry, n.; pl. Quandaries. Etym: [Prob. fr. OE. wandreth adversity, perplexity, Icel. wandræedhi difficulty, trouble, fr. vandr difficult.] Defn: A state of difficulty or perplexity; doubt; uncertainty. QUANDARY Quan"da*ry, v. t. Defn: To bring into a state of uncertainty, perplexity, or difficulty. [Obs.] Otway. QUANDONG Quan"dong, n. (Bot.) Defn: The edible drupaceous fruit of an Australian tree (Fusanus acuminatus) of the Sandalwood family; -- called also quandang. QUANDY Quan"dy, n. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.] (Zoöl.) Defn: The old squaw. [Local, U. S.] QUANNET Quan"net, n. Defn: A flat file having the handle at one side, so as to be used like a plane. QUANT Quant, n. Defn: A punting pole with a broad flange near the end to prevent it from sinking into the mud; a setting pole. QUANTIC Quan"tic, n. Etym: [L. quantus how much. See Quantity.] (Math.) Defn: A homogeneous algebraic function of two or more variables, in general containing only positive integral powers of the variables, and called quadric, cubic, quartic, etc., according as it is of the second, third, fourth, fifth, or a higher degree. These are further called binary, ternary, quaternary, etc., according as they contain two, three, four, or more variables; thus, the quantic is a binary cubic. QUANTIFICATION Quan`ti*fi*ca"tion, n. Etym: [See Quantity.] Defn: Modification by a reference to quantity; the introduction of the element of quantity. The quantification of the predicate belongs in part to Sir William Hamilton; viz.,