[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

a. Defn: Capable of being worked, or worth working; as, a workable mine; workable clay. WORKADAY Work"a*day`, n. Defn: See Workyday. WORKBAG Work"bag`, n. Defn: A bag for holding implements or materials for work; especially, a reticule, or bag for holding needlework, and the like. WORKBASKET Work"bas`ket, n. Defn: A basket for holding materials for needlework, or the like. WORKBENCH Work"bench`, n. Defn: A bench on which work is performed, as in a carpenter's shop. WORKBOX Work"box`, n. Defn: A box for holding instruments or materials for work. WORKDAY Work"day`, n. & a. Etym: [AS. weorcdæg.] Defn: A day on which work is performed, as distinguished from Sunday, festivals, etc., a working day. WORKER Work"er, n. 1. One who, or that which, works; a laborer; a performer; as, a worker in brass. Professors of holiness, but workers of iniquity. Shak. 2. (Zoöl.) Defn: One of the neuter, or sterile, individuals of the social ants, bees, and white ants. The workers are generally females having the sexual organs imperfectly developed. See Ant, and White ant, under White. WORKFELLOW Work"fel`low, n. Defn: One engaged in the same work with another; a companion in work. WORKFOLK Work"folk`, n. Defn: People that labor. WORKFUL Work"ful, a. Defn: Full of work; diligent. [R.] WORKHOUSE Work"house`, n.; pl. Workhouses. Etym: [AS. weorch.] 1. A house where any manufacture is carried on; a workshop. 2. A house in which idle and vicious persons are confined to labor. 3. A house where the town poor are maintained at public expense, and provided with labor; a poorhouse. WORKING Work"ing, Defn: a & n. from Work. The word must cousin be to the working. Chaucer. Working beam. See Beam, n. 10. -- Working class, the class of people who are engaged in manual labor, or are dependent upon it for support; laborers; operatives; -- chiefly used in the plural. -- Working day. See under Day, n. -- Working drawing, a drawing, as of the whole or part of a structure, machine, etc., made to a scale, and intended to be followed by the workmen. Working drawings are either general or detail drawings. -- Working house, a house where work is performed; a workhouse. -- Working point (Mach.), that part of a machine at which the effect required; the point where the useful work is done. WORKING-DAY Work"ing-day, a. Defn: Pertaining to, or characteristic of, working days, or workdays; everyday; hence, plodding; hard-working. O, how full of briers in this working-day world. Shak. WORKINGMAN Work"ing*man, n.; pl. Workingmen (. Defn: A laboring man; a man who earns his daily support by manual labor. WORKLESS Work"less, a. 1. Without work; not laboring; as, many people were still workless. 2. Not carried out in practice; not exemplified in fact; as, workless faith. [Obs.] Sir T. More. WORKMAN Work"man, n.; pl. Workmen. Etym: [AS. weorcmann.] 1. A man employed in labor, whether in tillage or manufactures; a worker. 2. Hence, especially, a skillful artificer or laborer. WORKMANLIKE Work"man*like`, a. Defn: Becoming a workman, especially a skillful one; skillful; well performed. WORKMANLY Work"man*ly, a. Defn: Becoming a skillful workman; skillful; well performed; workmanlike. WORKMANLY Work"man*ly, adv. Defn: In a skillful manner; in a manner becoming a skillful workman. Shak. WORKMANSHIP Work"man*ship, n. 1. The art or skill of a workman; the execution or manner of making anything. Due reward For her praiseworthy workmanship to yield. Spenser. Beauty is nature's brag, and must be shown . . . Where most may wonder at the workmanship. Milton. 2. That which is effected, made, or produced; manufacture, something made by manual labor. Not any skilled in workmanship embossed. Spenser. By how much Adam exceeded all men in perfection, by being the immediate workmanship of God. Sir W. Raleigh. WORKMASTER Work"mas`ter, n. Defn: The performer of any work; a master workman. [R.] Spenser. WORKMEN'S COMPENSATION ACT Workmen's compensation act. (Law) Defn: A statute fixing the compensation that a workman may recover from an employer in case of accident, esp. the British act of 6 Edw. VII. c. 58 (1906) giving to a workman, except in certain cases of "serious and willful misconduct," a right against his employer to a certain compensation on the mere occurrence of an accident where the common law gives the right only for negligence of the employer. WORKROOM Work"room`, n. Defn: Any room or apartment used especially for labor. WORKSHIP Work"ship, n. Defn: Workmanship. [R.] WORKSHOP Work"shop`, n. Defn: A shop where any manufacture or handiwork is carried on. WORKTABLE Work"ta`ble, n. Defn: A table for holding working materials and implements; esp., a small table with drawers and other conveniences for needlework, etc. WORKWAYS; WORKWISE Work"ways`, Work"wise`, adv. Defn: In a working position or manner; as, a T rail placed workwise, i.e., resting on its base. WORKWOMAN Work"wom`an, n.; pl. Workwomen (, n. Defn: A woman who performs any work; especially, a woman skilled in needlework. WORKYDAY Work"y*day`, n. Etym: [See Workday, Workingday.] Defn: A week day or working day, as distinguished from Sunday or a holiday. Also used adjectively. [Written also workiday, and workaday.] [Obs. or Colloq.] Prithee, tell her but a workyday fortune. Shak. WORLD World, n. Etym: [OE. world, werld, weorld, weoreld, AS. weorold, worold; akin to OS. werold, D. wereld, OHG. weralt, worolt, werolt, werlt, G. welt, Icel. veröld, Sw. verld, Dan. verden; properly, the age of man, lifetime, humanity; AS. wer a man + a word akin to E. old; cf. AS. yld lifetime, age, ylde men, humanity. Cf. Werewolf, Old.] 1. The earth and the surrounding heavens; the creation; the system of created things; existent creation; the universe. The invisible things of him from the creation of the world are clearly seen. Rom. 1. 20. With desire to know, What nearer might concern him, how this world Of heaven and earth conspicuous first began. Milton. 2. Any planet or heavenly body, especially when considered as inhabited, and as the scene of interests analogous with human interests; as, a plurality of worlds. "Lord of the worlds above." I. Watts. Amongst innumerable stars, that shone Star distant, but high-hand seemed other worlds. Milton. There may be other worlds, where the inhabitants have never violated their allegiance to their almighty Sovereign. W. B. Sprague. 3. The earth and its inhabitants, with their concerns; the sum of human affairs and interests. That forbidden tree, whose mortal taste Brought death into the world, and all our woe. Milton. 4. In a more restricted sense, that part of the earth and its concerns which is known to any one, or contemplated by any one; a division of the globe, or of its inhabitants; human affairs as seen from a certain position, or from a given point of view; also, state of existence; scene of life and action; as, the Old World; the New World; the religious world; the Catholic world; the upper world; the future world; the heathen world. One of the greatest in the Christian world Shall be my surety. Shak. Murmuring that now they must be put to make war beyond the world's end -- for so they counted Britain. Milton. 5. The customs, practices, and interests of men; general affairs of life; human society; public affairs and occupations; as, a knowledge of the world. Happy is she that from the world retires. Waller. If knowledge of the world makes man perfidious, May Juba ever live in ignorance. Addison. 6. Individual experience of, or concern with, life; course of life; sum of the affairs which affect the individual; as, to begin the world with no property; to lose all, and begin the world anew. 7. The inhabitants of the earth; the human race; people in general; the public; mankind. Since I do purpose to marry, I will think nothing to any purpose that the world can say against it. Shak. Tell me, wench, how will the world repute me For undertaking so unstaid a journey Shak. 8. The earth and its affairs as distinguished from heaven; concerns of this life as distinguished from those of the life to come; the present existence and its interests; hence, secular affairs; engrossment or absorption in the affairs of this life; worldly corruption; the ungodly or wicked part of mankind. I pray not for the world, but for them which thou hast given me; for they are thine. John xvii. 9. Love not the world, neither the things that are in the world. If any man love the world, the love of the Father is not in him. For all that is in the world, the lust of the flesh, and the lust of the eyes, and the pride of life, is not of the Father, but is of the world. 1 John ii. 15, 16. 9. As an emblem of immensity, a great multitude or quantity; a large number. "A world of men." Chapman. "A world of blossoms for the bee." Bryant. Nor doth this wood lack worlds of company. Shak. A world of woes dispatched in little space. Dryden. All . . . in the