[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

covered with a secretion, consisting of two thirds resin and one third wax, which, when melted with a third of fat, makes excellent candles. (b) A Brazilian tree (Copernicia cerifera) the young leaves of which are covered with a useful waxy secretion. -- Wax paper, paper prepared with a coating of white wax and other ingredients. -- Wax plant (Bot.), a name given to several plants, as: (a) The Indian pipe (see under Indian). (b) The Hoya carnosa, a climbing plant with polished, fleshy leaves. (c) Certain species of Begonia with similar foliage. -- Wax tree (Bot.) (a) A tree or shrub (Ligustrum lucidum) of China, on which certain insects make a thick deposit of a substance resembling white wax. (b) A kind of sumac (Rhus succedanea) of Japan, the berries of which yield a sort of wax. (c) A rubiaceous tree (Elæagia utilis) of New Grenada, called by the inhabitants "arbol del cera." -- Wax yellow, a dull yellow, resembling the natural color of beeswax. WAX Wax, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Waxed; p. pr. & vb. n. Waxing.] Defn: To smear or rub with wax; to treat with wax; as, to wax a thread or a table. Waxed cloth, cloth covered with a coating of wax, used as a cover, of tables and for other purposes; -- called also wax cloth. -- Waxed end, a thread pointed with a bristle and covered with shoemaker's wax, used in sewing leather, as for boots, shoes, and the like; -- called also wax end. Brockett. WAXBERRY Wax"ber`ry, n. (Bot.) Defn: The wax-covered fruit of the wax myrtle, or bayberry. See Bayberry, and Candleberry tree. WAXBILL Wax"bill`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: Any one of numerous species of finchlike birds belonging to Estrelda and allied genera, native of Asia, Africa, and Australia. The bill is large, conical, and usually red in color, resembling sealing wax. Several of the species are often kept as cage birds. WAXBIRD Wax"bird`, (Zoöl.) Defn: The waxwing. WAXEN Wax"en, a. 1. Made of wax. "The female bee, that . . . builds her waxen cells." Milton. 2. Covered with wax; waxed; as, a waxen tablet. 3. Resembling wax; waxy; hence, soft; yielding. Men have marble, women waxen, minds. Shak. Waxen chatterer (Zoöl.), the Bohemian chatterer. WAXINESS Wax"i*ness, n. Defn: Quality or state of being waxy. WAXWING Wax"wing`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: Any one of several species of small birds of the genus Ampelis, in which some of the secondary quills are usually tipped with small horny ornaments resembling red sealing wax. The Bohemian waxwing (see under Bohemian) and the cedar bird are examples. Called also waxbird. WAXWORK Wax"work`, n. 1. Work made of wax; especially, a figure or figures formed or partly of wax, in imitation of real beings. 2. (Bot.) Defn: An American climbing shrub (Celastrus scandens). It bears a profusion of yellow berrylike pods, which open in the autumn, and display the scarlet coverings of the seeds. WAXWORKER Wax"work`er, n. 1. One who works in wax; one who makes waxwork. 2. A bee that makes or produces wax. WAXWORKS Wax"works`, n. pl. Defn: An exhibition of wax figures, or the place of exhibition. WAXY Wax"y, a. Defn: Resembling wax in appearance or consistency; viscid; adhesive; soft; hence, yielding; pliable; impressible. "Waxy to persuasion." Bp. Hall. Waxy degeneration (Med.), amyloid degeneration. See under Amyloid. -- Waxy kidney, Waxy liver, etc. (Med.), a kidney or liver affected by waxy degeneration. WAY Way, adv. Etym: [Aphetic form of away.] Defn: Away. [Obs. or Archaic] Chaucer. To do way, to take away; to remove. [Obs.] "Do way your hands." Chaucer. -- To make way with, to make away with. See under Away. [Archaic] WAY Way, n. Etym: [OE. wey, way, AS. weg; akin to OS., D., OHG., & G. weg, Icel. vegr, Sw. väg, Dan. vei, Goth. wigs, L. via, and AS. wegan to move, L. vehere to carry, Skr. vah. sq. root136. Cf. Convex, Inveigh, Vehicle, Vex, Via, Voyage, Wag, Wagon, Wee, Weigh.] 1. That by, upon, or along, which one passes or processes; opportunity or room to pass; place of passing; passage; road, street, track, or path of any kind; as, they built a way to the mine. "To find the way to heaven." Shak. I shall him seek by way and eke by street. Chaucer. The way seems difficult, and steep to scale. Milton. The season and ways were very improper for his majesty's forces to march so great a distance. Evelyn. 2. Length of space; distance; interval; as, a great way; a long way. And whenever the way seemed long, Or his heart began to fail. Longfellow. 3. A moving; passage; procession; journey. I prythee, now, lead the way. Shak. 4. Course or direction of motion or process; tendency of action; advance. If that way be your walk, you have not far. Milton. And let eternal justice take the way. Dryden. 5. The means by which anything is reached, or anything is accomplished; scheme; device; plan. My best way is to creep under his gaberdine. Shak. By noble ways we conquest will prepare. Dryden. What impious ways my wishes took! Prior. 6. Manner; method; mode; fashion; style; as, the way of expressing one's ideas. 7. Regular course; habitual method of life or action; plan of conduct; mode of dealing. "Having lost the way of nobleness." Sir. P. Sidney. Her ways are ways of pleasantness, and all her paths are peace. Prov. iii. 17. When men lived in a grander way. Longfellow. 8. Sphere or scope of observation. Jer. Taylor. The public ministers that fell in my way. Sir W. Temple. 9. Determined course; resolved mode of action or conduct; as, to have one's way. 10. (Naut.) (a) Progress; as, a ship has way. (b) pl. Defn: The timbers on which a ship is launched. 11. pl. (Mach.) Defn: The longitudinal guides, or guiding surfaces, on the bed of a planer, lathe, or the like, along which a table or carriage moves. 12. (Law) Defn: Right of way. See below. By the way, in passing; apropos; aside; apart from, though connected with, the main object or subject of discourse. -- By way of, for the purpose of; as being; in character of. -- Covert way. (Fort.) See Covered way, under Covered. -- In the family way. See under Family. -- In the way, so as to meet, fall in with, obstruct, hinder, etc. -- In the way with, traveling or going with; meeting or being with; in the presence of. -- Milky way. (Astron.) See Galaxy, 1. -- No way, No ways. See Noway, Noways, in the Vocabulary. -- On the way, traveling or going; hence, in process; advancing toward completion; as, on the way to this country; on the way to success. -- Out of the way. See under Out. -- Right of way (Law), a right of private passage over another's ground. It may arise either by grant or prescription. It may be attached to a house, entry, gate, well, or city lot, as well as to a country farm. Kent. -- To be under way, or To have way (Naut.), to be in motion, as when a ship begins to move. -- To give way. See under Give. -- To go one's way, or To come one's way, to go or come; to depart or come along. Shak. -- To go the way of all the earth, to die. -- To make one's way, to advance in life by one's personal efforts. -- To make way. See under Make, v. t. -- Ways and means. (a) Methods; resources; facilities. (b) (Legislation) Means for raising money; resources for revenue. -- Way leave, permission to cross, or a right of way across, land; also, rent paid for such right. [Eng] -- Way of the cross (Eccl.), the course taken in visiting in rotation the stations of the cross. See Station, n., 7 (c). -- Way of the rounds (Fort.), a space left for the passage of the rounds between a rampart and the wall of a fortified town. -- Way pane, a pane for cartage in irrigated land. See Pane, n., 4. [Prov. Eng.] -- Way passenger, a passenger taken up, or set down, at some intermediate place between the principal stations on a line of travel. -- Ways of God, his providential government, or his works. -- Way station, an intermediate station between principal stations on a line of travel, especially on a railroad. -- Way train, a train which stops at the intermediate, or way, stations; an accommodation train. -- Way warden, the surveyor of a road. Syn. -- Street; highway; road. -- Way, Street, Highway, Road. Way is generic, denoting any line for passage or conveyance; a highway is literally one raised for the sake of dryness and convenience in traveling; a road is, strictly, a way for horses and carriages; a street is, etymologically, a paved way, as early made in towns and cities; and, hence, the word is distinctively applied to roads or