[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

to trail a deer, or hunt him upon a cold scent, also, to hunt or pursue him with a limehound, F. trailler to trail a fishing line; probably from a derivative of L. trahere to draw; cf. L. traha a drag, sledge, tragula a kind of drag net, a small sledge, Sp. trailla a leash, an instrument for leveling the ground, D. treilen to draw with a rope, to tow, treil a rope for drawing a boat. See Trace, v. t.] 1. To hunt by the track; to track. Halliwell. 2. To draw or drag, as along the ground. And hung his head, and trailed his legs along. Dryden. They shall not trail me through their streets Like a wild beast. Milton. Long behind he trails his pompous robe. Pope. 3. (Mil.) Defn: To carry, as a firearm, with the breech near the ground and the upper part inclined forward, the piece being held by the right hand near the middle. 4. To tread down, as grass, by walking through it; to lay flat. Longfellow. 5. To take advantage of the ignorance of; to impose upon. [Prov. Eng.] I presently perceived she was (what is vernacularly termed) trailing Mrs. Dent; that is, playing on her ignorance. C. Bronte. TRAIL Trail, v. i. 1. To be drawn out in length; to follow after. When his brother saw the red blood trail. Spenser. 2. To grow to great length, especially when slender and creeping upon the ground, as a plant; to run or climb. TRAIL Trail, n. 1. A track left by man or beast; a track followed by the hunter; a scent on the ground by the animal pursued; as, a deer trail. They traveled in the bed of the brook, leaving no dangerous trail. Cooper. How cheerfully on the false trail they cry! Shak. 2. A footpath or road track through a wilderness or wild region; as, an Indian trail over the plains. 3. Anything drawn out to a length; as, the trail of a meteor; a trail of smoke. When lightning shoots in glittering trails along. Rowe. 4. Anything drawn behind in long undulations; a train. "A radiant trail of hair." Pope. 5. Anything drawn along, as a vehicle. [Obs.] 6. A frame for trailing plants; a trellis. [Obs.] 7. The entrails of a fowl, especially of game, as the woodcock, and the like; -- applied also, sometimes, to the entrails of sheep. The woodcock is a favorite with epicures, and served with its trail in, is a delicious dish. Baird. 8. (Mil.) Defn: That part of the stock of a gun carriage which rests on the ground when the piece is unlimbered. See Illust. of Gun carriage, under Gun. 9. The act of taking advantage of the ignorance of a person; an imposition. [Prov. Eng.] Trail boards (Shipbuilding), the carved boards on both sides of the cutwater near the figurehead. -- Trail net, a net that is trailed or drawn behind a boat. Wright. TRAILER Trail"er, n. Defn: One who, or that which, trails. Defn: A part of an object which extends some distance beyond the main body of the object; as, the trailer of a plant. trailer park. An area equipped to accommodate trailers (2), often with outlets supplying electrical power and water. Called also trailer camp, trailer court. TRAILING Trail"ing, Defn: a. & vb. n. from Trail. Trailing arbutus. (Bot.) See under Arbutus. -- Trailing spring, a spring fixed in the axle box of the trailing wheels of a locomotive engine, and so placed as to assist in deadening any shock which may occur. Weale. -- Trailing wheel, a hind wheel of a locomotive when it is not a driving wheel; also, one of the hind wheels of a carriage. TRAILING EDGE Trail"ing edge. (Aëronautics) Defn: A following edge. See Advancing edge, above. TRAIL ROPE Trail rope. (Aëronautics) Defn: Same as Guide rope, above. TRAIN Train, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Trained; p. pr. & vb. n. Training.] Etym: [OF. trahiner, traïner,F. traîner, LL. trahinare, trainare, fr. L. trahere to draw. See Trail.] 1. To draw along; to trail; to drag. In hollow cube Training his devilish enginery. Milton. 2. To draw by persuasion, artifice, or the like; to attract by stratagem; to entice; to allure. [Obs.] If but a dozen French Were there in arms, they would be as a call To train ten thousand English to their side. Shak. O, train me not, sweet mermaid, with thy note. Shak. This feast, I'll gage my life, Is but a plot to train you to your ruin. Ford. 3. To teach and form by practice; to educate; to exercise; to discipline; as, to train the militia to the manual exercise; to train soldiers to the use of arms. Our trained bands, which are the trustiest and most proper strength of a free nation. Milton. The warrior horse here bred he's taught to train. Dryden. 4. To break, tame, and accustom to draw, as oxen. 5. (Hort.) Defn: To lead or direct, and form to a wall or espalier; to form to a proper shape, by bending, lopping, or pruning; as, to train young trees. He trained the young branches to the right hand or to the left. Jeffrey. 6. (Mining) Defn: To trace, as a lode or any mineral appearance, to its head. To train a gun (Mil. & Naut.), to point it at some object either forward or else abaft the beam, that is, not directly on the side. Totten. -- To train, or To train up, to educate; to teach; to form by instruction or practice; to bring up. Train up a child in the way he should go; and when he is old, he will not depart from it. Prov. xxii. 6. The first Christians were, by great hardships, trained up for glory. Tillotson. TRAIN Train, v. i. 1. To be drilled in military exercises; to do duty in a military company. 2. To prepare by exercise, diet, instruction, etc., for any physical contest; as, to train for a boat race. TRAIN Train, n. Etym: [F. train, OF. traïn, trahin; cf. (for some of the senses) F. traine. See Train, v.] 1. That which draws along; especially, persuasion, artifice, or enticement; allurement. [Obs.] "Now to my charms, and to my wily trains." Milton. 2. Hence, something tied to a lure to entice a hawk; also, a trap for an animal; a snare. Halliwell. With cunning trains him to entrap un wares. Spenser. 3. That which is drawn along in the rear of, or after, something; that which is in the hinder part or rear. Specifically : -- (a) That part of a gown which trails behind the wearer. (b) (Mil.) The after part of a gun carriage; the trail. (c) The tail of a bird. "The train steers their flights, and turns their bodies, like the rudder of ship." Ray. 4. A number of followers; a body of attendants; a retinue; a suite. The king's daughter with a lovely train. Addison. My train are men of choice and rarest parts. Shak. 5. A consecution or succession of connected things; a series. "A train of happy sentiments." I. Watts. The train of ills our love would draw behind it. Addison. Rivers now Stream and perpetual draw their humid train. Milton. Other truths require a train of ideas placed in order. Locke. 6. Regular method; process; course; order; as, things now in a train for settlement. If things were once in this train, . . . our duty would take root in our nature. Swift. 7. The number of beats of a watch in any certain time. 8. A line of gunpowder laid to lead fire to a charge, mine, or the like. 9. A connected line of cars or carriages on a railroad. 10. A heavy, long sleigh used in Canada for the transportation of merchandise, wood, and the like. 11. (Rolling Mill) Defn: A roll train; as, a 12-inch train. Roll train, or Train of rolls (Rolling Mill), a set of plain or grooved rolls for rolling metal into various forms by a series of consecutive operations. -- Train mile (Railroads), a unit employed in estimating running expenses, etc., being one of the total number of miles run by all the trains of a road, or system of roads, as within a given time, or for a given expenditure; -- called also mile run. -- Train of artillery, any number of cannon, mortars, etc., with the attendants and carriages which follow them into the field. Campbell (Dict. Mil. Sci.). -- Train of mechanism, a series of moving pieces, as wheels and pinions, each of which is follower to that which drives it, and driver to that which follows it. -- Train road, a slight railway for small cars, -- used for construction, or in mining. -- Train tackle (Naut.), a tackle for running guns in and out. Syn. -- Cars. -- Train, Cars. Train is the word universally used in England with