[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

attract notice. And ogling all their audience, ere they speak. Dryden. OGLE O"gle, n. Defn: An amorous side glance or look. Byron. OGLER O"gler, n. Defn: One who ogles. Addison. OGLIO O"gli*o, n. Defn: See Olio. OGRE O"gre, n. Etym: [F., fr. Sp. ogro, fr. L. Orcus the god of the infernal regions; also, the lower world, hell.] Defn: An imaginary monster, or hideous giant of fairy tales, who lived on human beings; hence, any frightful giant; a cruel monster. His schoolroom must have resembled an ogre's den. Maccaulay. OGREISH O"gre*ish, a. Defn: Resembling an ogre; having the character or appearance of an ogre; suitable for an ogre. "An ogreish kind of jocularity." Dickens. OGRESS O"gress, n. Etym: [F.ogresse. See Ogre.] Defn: A female ogre. Tennyson. OGRISM; OGREISM O"grism, O"gre*ism, n. Defn: The character or manners of an ogre. OGYGIAN O*gyg"i*an, a. Etym: [L. Ogygius, Gr. Defn: Of or pertaining to Ogyges, a mythical king of ancient Attica, or to a great deluge in Attica in his days; hence, primeval; of obscure antiquity. OH Oh, interj. Etym: [See O, interj.] Defn: An exclamation expressing various emotions, according to the tone and manner, especially surprise, pain, sorrow, anxiety, or a wish. See the Note under O. OHM Ohm, n. Etym: [So called from the German electrician, G.S. Ohm.] (Elec.) Defn: The standard unit in the measure of electrical resistance, being the resistance of a circuit in which a potential difference of one volt produces a current of one ampére. As defined by the International Electrical Congress in 1893, and by United States Statute, it is a resistance substantially equal to 109 units of resistance of the C.G.S. system of electro-magnetic units, and is represented by the resistance offered to an unvarying electric current by a column of mercury at the temperature of melting ice 14.4521 grams in mass, of a constant cross-sectional area, and of the length of 106.3 centimeters. As thus defined it is called the international ohm. Ohm's law (Elec.), the statement of the fact that the strength or intensity of an electrical current is directly proportional to the electro-motive force, and inversely proportional to the resistance of the circuit. OHMMETER Ohm"me`ter, n. [Ohm + meter.] (Elec.) Defn: An instrument for indicating directly resistance in ohms. OHO O*ho", interj. Defn: An exclamation of surprise, etc. -OID -oid. Etym: [Gr. wit: cf.F. -oïde, L. -oïdes.] Defn: A suffix or combining form meaning like, resembling, in the form of; as in anthropoid, asteroid, spheroid. OIDIUM O*ïd"i*um, n. Etym: [NL., dim. fr. Gr. (Bot.) Defn: A genus of minute fungi which form a floccose mass of filaments on decaying fruit, etc. Many forms once referred to this genus are now believed to be temporary conditions of fungi of other genera, among them the vine mildew (Oïdium Tuckeri), which has caused much injury to grapes. OIL Oil, n. Etym: [OE. oile, OF. oile, F. huile, fr. L. oleum; akin to Gr. Olive.] Defn: Any one of a great variety of unctuous combustible substances, not miscible with water; as, olive oil, whale oil, rock oil, etc. They are of animal, vegetable, or mineral origin and of varied composition, and they are variously used for food, for solvents, for anointing, lubrication, illumination, etc. By extension, any substance of an oily consistency; as, oil of vitriol. Note: The mineral oils are varieties of petroleum. See Petroleum. The vegetable oils are of two classes, essential oils (see under Essential), and natural oils which in general resemble the animal oils and fats. Most of the natural oils and the animal oils and fats consist of ethereal salts of glycerin, with a large number of organic acids, principally stearic, oleic, and palmitic, forming respectively stearin, olein, and palmitin. Stearin and palmitin prevail in the solid oils and fats, and olein in the liquid oils. Mutton tallow, beef tallow, and lard are rich in stearin, human fat and palm oil in palmitin, and sperm and cod-liver oils in olein. In making soaps, the acids leave the glycerin and unite with the soda or potash. Animal oil, Bone oil, Dipple's oil, etc. (Old Chem.), a complex oil obtained by the distillation of animal substances, as bones. See Bone oil, under Bone. -- Drying oils, Essential oils. (Chem.) See under Drying, and Essential. -- Ethereal oil of wine, Heavy oil of wine. (Chem.) See under Ethereal. -- Fixed oil. (Chem.) See under Fixed. -- Oil bag (Zoöl.), a bag, cyst, or gland in animals, containing oil. -- Oil beetle (Zoöl.), any beetle of the genus Meloe and allied genera. When disturbed they emit from the joints of the legs a yellowish oily liquor. Some species possess vesicating properties, and are used instead of cantharides. -- Oil box, or Oil cellar (Mach.), a fixed box or reservoir, for lubricating a bearing; esp., the box for oil beneath the journal of a railway-car axle. -- Oil cake. See under Cake. -- Oil cock, a stopcock connected with an oil cup. See Oil cup. -- Oil color. (a) A paint made by grinding a coloring substance in oil. (b) Such paints, taken in a general sense. -- Oil cup, a cup, or small receptacle, connected with a bearing as a lubricator, and usually provided with a wick, wire, or adjustable valve for regulating the delivery of oil. -- Oil engine, a gas engine worked with the explosive vapor of petroleum. -- Oil gas, inflammable gas procured from oil, and used for lighting streets, houses, etc. -- Oil gland. (a) (Zoöl.) A gland which secretes oil; especially in birds, the large gland at the base of the tail. (b) (Bot.) A gland, in some plants, producing oil. -- Oil green, a pale yellowish green, like oil. -- Oil of brick, empyreumatic oil obtained by subjecting a brick soaked in oil to distillation at a high temperature, -- used by lapidaries as a vehicle for the emery by which stones and gems are sawn or cut. Brande & C. -- Oil of talc, a nostrum made of calcined talc, and famous in the 17th century as a cosmetic. [Obs.] B. Jonson. -- Oil of vitriol (Chem.), strong sulphuric acid; -- so called from its oily consistency and from its forming the vitriols or sulphates. -- Oil of wine, . -- Oil painting. (a) The art of painting in oil colors. (b) Any kind of painting of which the pigments are originally ground in oil. -- Oil palm (Bot.), a palm tree whose fruit furnishes oil, esp. Elæis Guineensis. See Elæis. -- Oil sardine (Zoöl.), an East Indian herring (Clupea scombrina), valued for its oil. -- Oil shark (Zoöl.) (a) The liver shark. (b) The tope. -- Oil still, a still for hydrocarbons, esp. for petroleum. -- Oil test, a test for determining the temperature at which petroleum oils give off vapor which is liable to explode. -- Oil tree. (Bot.) (a) A plant of the genus Ricinus (R. communis), from the seeds of which castor oil is obtained. (b) An Indian tree, the mahwa. See Mahwa. (c) The oil palm. -- To burn the midnight oil, to study or work late at night. -- Volatle oils. See Essential oils, under Essential. OIL Oil, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Oiled; p. pr. & vb. n. Oiling.] Defn: To smear or rub over with oil; to lubricate with oil; to anoint with oil. OILBIRD Oil"bird`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: See Guacharo. OILCLOTH Oil"cloth", n. Defn: Cloth treated with oil or paint, and used for marking garments, covering flooors, etc. OILED Oiled, a. Defn: Covered or treated with oil; dressed with, or soaked in, oil. Oiled silk, silk rendered waterproof by saturation with boiled oil. OILER Oil"er, n. 1. One who deals in oils. 2. One who, or that which, oils. OILERY Oil"er*y, n. Etym: [Cf.F. huilerie.] Defn: The business, the place of business, or the goods, of a maker of, or dealer in, oils. OILINESS Oil"i*ness, n. Defn: The quality of being oily. Bacon. OILLET Oil"let, n. Etym: [See Eyelet.] (Arch.) (a) A small opening or loophole, sometimes circular, used in mediæval fortifications. (b) A small circular opening, and ring of moldings surrounding it, used in window tracery in Gothic architecture. [Written also oylet.] OILMAN Oil"man, n.; pl. Oilmen (. Defn: One who deals in oils; formerly, one who dealt in oils and pickles. OILNUT Oil"nut`, n. (Bot.) Defn: The buffalo nut. See Buffalo nut, under Buffalo. Note: The name is also applied to various nuts and seeds yielding oil, as the butternut, cocoanut, oil-palm nut. OILSEED Oil"seed`, n. (Bot.) (a) Seed from which oil is expressed, as the castor bean; also, the plant yielding such seed. See Castor bean. (b) A cruciferous herb (Camelina sativa). (c) The sesame. OILSKIN Oil"skin`, n. Defn: Cloth made waterproof by oil. OILSTONE Oil"stone`, n. Defn: A variety of hone slate, or whetstone, used for whetting tools when lubricated with oil. OILY Oil"y, a. [Compar. Oilier; superl. Oiliest.] 1. Consisting of oil; containing oil; having the nature or qualities of oil; unctuous; oleaginous;