[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

rendered in the suit. See Attachment, 4. The earl marshal attached Gloucester for high treason. Miss Yonge. Attached column (Arch.), a column engaged in a wall, so that only a part of its circumference projects from it. Syn. -- To affix; bind; tie; fasten; connect; conjoin; subjoin; annex; append; win; gain over; conciliate. ATTACH At*tach", v. i. 1. To adhere; to be attached. The great interest which attaches to the mere knowledge of these facts cannot be doubted. Brougham. 2. To come into legal operation in connection with anything; to vest; as, dower will attach. Cooley. ATTACH At*tach", n. Defn: An attachment. [Obs.] Pope. ATTACHABLE At*tach"a*ble, a. Defn: Capable of being attached; esp., liable to be taken by writ or precept. ATTACHE At`ta*ché", n. Etym: [F., p. p. of attacher. See Attach, v. t.] Defn: One attached to another person or thing, as a part of a suite or staff. Specifically: One attached to an embassy. ATTACHMENT At*tach"ment, n. Etym: [F. attachment.] 1. The act attaching, or state of being attached; close adherence or affection; fidelity; regard; anas, an attachment to a friend, or to a party. 2. That by which one thing is attached to another; connection; as, to cut the attachments of a muscle. The human mind . . . has exhausted its forces in the endeavor to rend the supernatural from its attachment to this history. I. Taylor. 3. Something attached; some adjunct attached to an instrument, machine, or other object; as, a sewing machine attachment (i. e., a device attached to a sewing machine to enable it to do special work, as tucking, etc.). 4. (Giv. Law) (a) A seizure or taking into custody by virtue of a legal process. (b) The writ or percept commanding such seizure or taking. Note: The term is applied to a seizure or taking either of persons or property. In the serving of process in a civil suit, it is most generally applied to the taking of property, whether at common law, as a species of distress, to compel defendant's appearance, or under local statutes, to satisfy the judgment the plaintiff may recover in the action. The terms attachment and arrest are both applied to the taking or apprehension of a defendant to compel an appearance in a civil action. Attachments are issued at common law and in chancery, against persons for contempt of court. In England, attachment is employed in some cases where capias is with us, as against a witness who fails to appear on summons. In some of the New England States a writ of attachment is a species of mesne process upon which the property of a defendant may be seized at the commencement of a suit and before summons to him, and may be held to satisfy the judgment the plaintiff may recover. In other States this writ can issue only against absconding debtors and those who conceal themselves. See Foreign, Garnishment, Trustee process. Bouvier. Burrill. Blackstone. Syn. -- Attachment, Affection. The leading idea of affection is that of warmth and tenderness; the leading idea of attachment is that of being bound to some object by strong and lasting ties. There is more of sentiment (and sometimes of romance) in affection, and more of principle in preserving attachment. We speak of the ardor of the one, and the fidelity of the other. There is another distinction in the use and application of these words. The term attachment is applied to a wider range of objects than affection. A man may have a strong attachment to his country, to his profession, to his principles, and even to favorite places; in respect to none of these could we use the word affection. ATTACK At*tack", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Attacked; p. pr. & vb. n. Attacking.] Etym: [F. attaquer, orig. another form of attacher to attack: cf. It. attacare to fasten, attack. See Attach, Tack a small nail.] 1. To fall upon with force; to assail, as with force and arms; to assault. "Attack their lines." Dryden. 2. To assail with unfriendly speech or writing; to begin a controversy with; to attempt to overthrow or bring into disrepute, by criticism or satire; to censure; as, to attack a man, or his opinions, in a pamphlet. 3. To set to work upon, as upon a task or problem, or some object of labor or investigation. 4. To begin to affect; to begin to act upon, injuriously or destructively; to begin to decompose or waste. On the fourth of March he was attacked by fever. Macaulay. Hydrofluoric acid . . . attacks the glass. B. Stewart. Syn. -- To Attack, Assail, Assault, Invade. These words all denote a violent onset; attack being the generic term, and the others specific forms of attack. To attack is to commence the onset; to assail is to make a sudden and violent attack, or to make repeated attacks; to assault (literally, to leap upon) is to attack physically by a had- to-hand approach or by unlawful and insulting violence; to invade is to enter by force on what belongs to another. Thus, a person may attack by offering violence of any kind; he may assail by means of missile weapons; he may assault by direct personal violence; a king may invade by marching an army into a country. Figuratively, we may say, men attack with argument or satire; they assail with abuse or reproaches; they may be assaulted by severe temptations; the rights of the people may be invaded by the encroachments of the crown. ATTACK At*tack", v. i. Defn: To make an onset or attack. ATTACK At*tack", n. Etym: [Cf. F. attaque.] 1. The act of attacking, or falling on with force or violence; an onset; an assault; -- opposed to defense. 2. An assault upon one's feelings or reputation with unfriendly or bitter words. 3. A setting to work upon some task, etc. 4. An access of disease; a fit of sickness. 5. The beginning of corrosive, decomposing, or destructive action, by a chemical agent. ATTACKABLE At*tack"a*ble, a. Defn: Capable of being attacked. ATTACKER At*tack"er, n. Defn: One who attacks. ATTAGAS; ATTAGEN At"ta*gas, At"ta*gen, n. Etym: [L. attagen a kind of bird, Gr. (Zoöl.) Defn: A species of sand grouse (Syrrghaptes Pallasii) found in Asia and rarely in southern Europe. ATTAGHAN At"ta*ghan, n. Defn: See Yataghan. ATTAIN At*tain", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Attained; p. pr. & vb. n. Attaining.] Etym: [Of. atteinen, atteignen, , OF. ateindre, ataindre, F. atteindre, fr. L. attingere; ad + tangere to touch, reach. See Tangent, and cf. Attinge, Attaint.] 1. To achieve or accomplish, that is, to reach by efforts; to gain; to compass; as, to attain rest. Is he wise who hopes to attain the end without the means Abp. Tillotson. 2. To gain or obtain possession of; to acquire. [Obs. with a material object.] Chaucer. 3. To get at the knowledge of; to ascertain. [Obs.] Not well attaining his meaning. Fuller. 4. To reach or come to, by progression or motion; to arrive at. "Canaan he now attains." Milton. 5. To overtake. [Obs.] Bacon. 6. To reach in excellence or degree; to equal. Syn. -- To Attain, Obtain, Procure. Attain always implies an effort toward an object. Hence it is not synonymous with obtain and procure, which do not necessarily imply such effort or motion. We procure or obtain a thing by purchase or loan, and we obtain by inheritance, but we do not attain it by such means. ATTAIN At*tain", v. i. 1. To come or arrive, by motion, growth, bodily exertion, or efforts toward a place, object, state, etc.; to reach. If by any means they might attain to Phenice. Acts xxvii. 12. Nor nearer might the dogs attain. Sir W. Scott. To see your trees attain to the dignity of timber. Cowper. Few boroughs had as yet attained to power such as this. J. R. Green. 2. To come or arrive, by an effort of mind. Such knowledge is too wonderful for me; it is high, I can not attain unto it. Ps. cxxxix. 6. ATTAIN At*tain", n. Defn: Attainment. [Obs.] ATTAINABILITY At*tain`a*bil"i*ty, n. Defn: The quality of being attainable; attainbleness. ATTAINABLE At*tain"a*ble, a. 1. Capable of being attained or reached by efforts of the mind or body; capable of being compassed or accomplished by efforts directed to the object. The highest pitch of perfection attainable in this life. Addison. 2. Obtainable. [Obs.] General Howe would not permit the purchase of those articles [clothes and blankets] in Philadelphia, and they were not attainable in the country. Marshall. ATTAINABLENESS At*tain"a*ble*ness, n. Defn: The quality of being attainable; attainability. ATTAINDER At*tain"der, n. Etym: [OF. ataindre, ateindre, to accuse, convict. Attainder is often erroneously referred to F. teindre tie stain. See Attaint, Attain.] 1. The act of attainting, or the state of being attainted; the extinction of the civil rights and capacities of a person, consequent upon sentence of death or outlawry; as, an act of attainder. Abbott. Note: Formerly attainder