[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

for any other purpose; armed conflict of sovereign powers; declared and open hostilities. Men will ever distinguish war from mere bloodshed. F. W. Robertson. Note: As war is the contest of nations or states, it always implies that such contest is authorized by the monarch or the sovereign power of the nation. A war begun by attacking another nation, is called an offensive war, and such attack is aggressive. War undertaken to repel invasion, or the attacks of an enemy, is called defensive. 2. (Law) Defn: A condition of belligerency to be maintained by physical force. In this sense, levying war against the sovereign authority is treason. 3. Instruments of war. [Poetic] His complement of stores, and total war. Prior. 4. Forces; army. [Poetic] On their embattled ranks the waves return, And overwhelm their war. Milton. 5. The profession of arms; the art of war. Thou art but a youth, and he is a man of war from his youth. 1 Sam. xvii. 33. 6. a state of opposition or contest; an act of opposition; an inimical contest, act, or action; enmity; hostility. "Raised impious war in heaven." Milton. The words of his mouth were smoother than butter, but war was in his heart. Ps. lv. 21. Civil war, a war between different sections or parties of the same country or nation. -- Holy war. See under Holy. -- Man of war. (Naut.) See in the Vocabulary. -- Public war, a war between independent sovereign states. -- War cry, a cry or signal used in war; as, the Indian war cry. -- War dance, a dance among savages preliminary to going to war. Among the North American Indians, it is begun by some distinguished chief, and whoever joins in it thereby enlists as one of the party engaged in a warlike excursion. Schoolcraft. -- War field, a field of war or battle. -- War horse, a horse used in war; the horse of a cavalry soldier; especially, a strong, powerful, spirited horse for military service; a charger. -- War paint, paint put on the face and other parts of the body by savages, as a token of going to war. "Wash the war paint from your faces." Longfellow. -- War song, a song of or pertaining to war; especially, among the American Indians, a song at the war dance, full of incitements to military ardor. -- War whoop, a war cry, especially that uttered by the American Indians. WAR War, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Warred; p. pr. & vb. n. Warring.] 1 Defn: To make war; to invade or attack a state or nation with force of arms; to carry on hostilities; to be in a state by violence. Rezin the king of Syria, and Pekah the son of Remaliah, king of Israel, went up toward Jerusalem to war against it. Isa. vii. 1. Why should I war without the walls of Troy Shak. Our countrymen were warring on that day! Byron. 2. To contend; to strive violently; to fight. "Lusts which war against the soul." 1 Pet. ii. 11. WAR War, v. t. 1. To make war upon; to fight. [R.] To war the Scot, and borders to defend. Daniel. 2. To carry on, as a contest; to wage. [R.] That thou . . . mightest war a good warfare. Tim. i. 18. WAR-BEATEN War"-beat`en, a. Defn: Warworn. WARBLE War"ble, n. Etym: [Cf. Wormil.] 1. (Far.) (a) A small, hard tumor which is produced on the back of a horse by the heat or pressure of the saddle in traveling. (b) A small tumor produced by the larvæ of the gadfly in the backs of horses, cattle, etc. Called also warblet, warbeetle, warnles. 2. (Zoöl.) Defn: See Wormil. WARBLE War"ble, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Warbled; p. pr. & vb. n. Warbling.] Etym: [OE. werbelen, OF. werbler; of Teutonic origin; cf. G. wirbeln to turn, to warble, D. wervelen, akin to E. whirl. See Whirl.] 1. To sing in a trilling, quavering, or vibratory manner; to modulate with turns or variations; to trill; as, certain birds are remarkable for warbling their songs. 2. To utter musically; to modulate; to carol. If she be right invoked in warbled song. Milton. Warbling sweet the nuptial lay. Trumbull. 3. To cause to quaver or vibrate. "And touch the warbled string." Milton. WARBLE War"ble, v. i. 1. To be quavered or modulated; to be uttered melodiously. Such strains ne'er warble in the linnet's throat. Gay. 3. To sing in a trilling manner, or with many turns and variations. "Birds on the branches warbling." Milton. 3. To sing with sudden changes from chest to head tones; to yodel. WARBLE War"ble, n. Defn: A quavering modulation of the voice; a musical trill; a song. And he, the wondrous child, Whose silver warble wild Outvalued every pulsing sound. Emerson. WARBLER War"bler, n. 1. One who, or that which, warbles; a singer; a songster; -- applied chiefly to birds. In lulling strains the feathered warblers woo. Tickell. 2. (Zoöl.) Defn: Any one of numerous species of small Old World singing birds belonging to the family Sylviidæ, many of which are noted songsters. The bluethroat, blackcap, reed warbler (see under Reed), and sedge warbler (see under Sedge) are well-known species. 3. (Zoöl.) Defn: Any one of numerous species of small, often bright colored, American singing birds of the family or subfamily Mniotiltidæ, or Sylvicolinæ. They are allied to the Old World warblers, but most of them are not particularly musical. Note: The American warblers are often divided, according to their habits, into bush warblers, creeping warblers, fly-catching warblers, ground warblers, wood warblers, wormeating warblers, etc. Bush warbler (Zoöl.) any American warbler of the genus Opornis, as the Connecticut warbler (O. agilis). -- Creeping warbler (Zoöl.), any one of several species of very small American warblers belonging to Parula, Mniotilta, and allied genera, as the blue yellow-backed warbler (Parula Americana), and the black-and-white creeper (Mniotilta varia). -- Fly-catching warbler (Zoöl.), any one of several species of warblers belonging to Setophaga, Sylvania, and allied genera having the bill hooked and notched at the tip, with strong rictal bristles at the base, as the hooded warbler (Sylvania mitrata), the black- capped warbler (S. pusilla), the Canadian warbler (S. Canadensis), and the American redstart (see Redstart). -- Ground warbler (Zoöl.), any American warbler of the genus Geothlypis, as the mourning ground warbler (G. Philadelphia), and the Maryland yellowthroat (see Yellowthroat). -- Wood warbler (Zoöl.), any one of numerous American warblers of the genus Dendroica. Among the most common wood warblers in the Eastern States are the yellowbird, or yellow warbler (see under Yellow), the black-throated green warbler (Dendroica virens), the yellow-rumped warbler (D. coronata), the blackpoll (D. striata), the bay-breasted warbler (D. castanea), the chestnut-sided warbler (D. Pennsylvanica), the Cape May warbler (D. tigrina), the prairie warbler (see under Prairie), and the pine warbler (D. pinus). See also Magnolia warbler, under Magnolia, and Blackburnian warbler. WARBLINGLY War"bling*ly, adv. Defn: In a warbling manner. WARBURG'S TINCTURE War"burg's tinc"ture. (Pharm.) Defn: A preparation containing quinine and many other ingredients, often used in the treatment of malarial affections. It was invented by Dr. Warburg of London. -WARD; -WARDS -ward, -wards. Etym: [AS. -weard, -weardes; akin to OS. & OFries. - ward. OHG. -wert, G. -wärts, Icel. -verthr, Goth. -vaírÞs, L. vertere to turn, versus toward, and E. worth to become. *143. See Worth. v. i., and cf. Verse. Adverbs ending in -wards (AS. -weardes) and some other adverbs, such as besides, betimes, since (OE. sithens). etc., were originally genitive forms used adverbially.] Defn: Suffixes denoting course or direction to; motion or tendency toward; as in backward, or backwards; toward, or towards, etc. WARD Ward, n. Etym: [AS. weard, fem., guard, weard, ward a watcher, warden, G. wart, OHG. wart, Icel. vör a warden, a watch, Goth. -wards in daúrawards a doorkeeper, and E. wary; cf. OF. warde guard, from the German. See Ware, a., Wary, and cf. Guard, Wraith.] 1. The act of guarding; watch; guard; guardianship; specifically, a guarding during the day. See the Note under Watch, n., 1. Still, when she slept, he kept both watch and ward. Spenser. 2. One who, or that which, guards; garrison; defender; protector; means of guarding; defense; protection. For the best ward of mine honor. Shak. The assieged castle's ward Their steadfast stands did mightily maintain. Spenser. For want of other ward, He lifted up his hand, his front to guard. Dryden. 3. The state of being under guard or guardianship; confinement under guard; the condition of a child under a guardian; custody. And he put them in ward in the house of the captain of the guard. Gen. xl. 3. I must attend his majesty's command, to whom I am now in ward. Shak. It is also inconvenient, in Ireland, that the wards and marriages of gentlemen's children should be in the disposal of any of those lords. Spenser. 4. A guarding or defensive motion or position, as in fencing; guard. "Thou knowest