[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

a double-headed eagle. Bald eagle. See Bald eagle. -- Bold eagle. See under Bold. -- Double eagle, a gold coin of the United States worth twenty dollars. -- Eagle hawk (Zoöl.), a large, crested, South American hawk of the genus Morphnus. -- Eagle owl (Zoöl.), any large owl of the genus Bubo, and allied genera; as the American great horned owl (Bubo Virginianus), and the allied European species (B. maximus). See Horned owl. -- Eagle ray (Zoöl.), any large species of ray of the genus Myliobatis (esp. M. aquila). -- Eagle vulture (Zoöl.), a large West African bid (Gypohierax Angolensis), intermediate, in several respects, between the eagles and vultures. EAGLE-EYED Ea"gle-eyed`, a. Defn: Sharp-sighted as an eagle. "Inwardly eagle-eyed." Howell. EAGLE-SIGHTED Ea"gle-sight`ed, a. Defn: Farsighted and strong-sighted; sharp-sighted. Shak. EAGLESS Ea"gless, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. aiglesse.] (Zoöl.) Defn: A female or hen eagle. [R.] Sherwood. EAGLESTONE Ea"gle*stone, n. (Min.) Defn: A concretionary nodule of clay ironstone, of the size of a walnut or larger, so called by the ancients, who believed that the eagle transported these stones to her nest to facilitate the laying of her eggs; aëtites. EAGLET Ea"glet, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. aiglet.] (Zoöl.) Defn: A young eagle, or a diminutive eagle. EAGLE-WINGED Ea"gle-winged`, a. Defn: Having the wings of an eagle; swift, or soaring high, like an eagle. Shak. EAGLEWOOD Ea"gle*wood`, n. Etym: [From Skr. aguru, through Pg. aguila; cf. F. bois d'aigle.] Defn: A kind of fragrant wood. See Agallochum. EAGRASS Ea"grass, n. Defn: See Eddish. [Obs.] EAGRE Ea"gre, n. Etym: [AS. eágor, , in comp., water, sea, eágor-streám water stream, sea.] Defn: A wave, or two or three successive waves, of great height and violence, at flood tide moving up an estuary or river; -- commonly called the bore. See Bore. EALDERMAN; EALDORMAN Eal"der*man, Eal"dor*man, n. Defn: An alderman. [Obs.] EALE Eale, n. Etym: [See Ale.] Defn: Ale. [Obs.] Shak. EAME Eame, n. Etym: [AS. eám; akin to D. oom, G. ohm, oheim; cf. L. avunculus.] Defn: Uncle. [Obs.] Spenser. EAN Ean, v. t. & i. Etym: [AS. eánian. See Yean.] Defn: To bring forth, as young; to yean. "In eaning time." Shak. EANLING Ean"ling, n. Etym: [See Ean, Yeanling.] Defn: A lamb just brought forth; a yeanling. Shak. EAR Ear, n. Etym: [AS. eáre; akin to OFries. áre, ár, OS. , D. oor, OHG. , G. ohr, Icel. eyra, Sw. öra, Dan. öre, Goth. auso, L. auris, Lith. ausis, Russ. ukho, Gr. audire to hear, Gr. av to favor , protect. Cf. Auricle, Orillon.] 1. The organ of hearing; the external ear. Note: In man and the higher vertebrates, the organ of hearing is very complicated, and is divisible into three parts: the external ear, which includes the pinna or auricle and meatus or external opening; the middle ear, drum, or tympanum; and the internal ear, or labyrinth. The middle ear is a cavity connected by the Eustachian tube with the pharynx, separated from the opening of the external ear by the tympanic membrane, and containing a chain of three small bones, or ossicles, named malleus, incus, and stapes, which connect this membrane with the internal ear. The essential part of the internal ear where the fibers of the auditory nerve terminate, is the membranous labyrinth, a complicated system of sacs and tubes filled with a fluid (the endolymph), and lodged in a cavity, called the bony labyrinth, in the periotic bone. The membranous labyrinth does not completely fill the bony labyrinth, but is partially suspended in it in a fluid (the perilymph). The bony labyrinth consists of a central cavity, the vestibule, into which three semicircular canals and the canal of the cochlea (spirally coiled in mammals) open. The vestibular portion of the membranous labyrinth consists of two sacs, the utriculus and sacculus, connected by a narrow tube, into the former of which three membranous semicircular canals open, while the latter is connected with a membranous tube in the cochlea containing the organ of Corti. By the help of the external ear the sonorous vibrations of the air are concentrated upon the tympanic membrane and set it vibrating, the chain of bones in the middle ear transmits these vibrations to the internal ear, where they cause certain delicate structures in the organ of Corti, and other parts of the membranous labyrinth, to stimulate the fibers of the auditory nerve to transmit sonorous impulses to the brain. 2. The sense of hearing; the perception of sounds; the power of discriminating between different tones; as, a nice ear for music; -- in the singular only. Songs . . . not all ungrateful to thine ear. Tennyson. 3. That which resembles in shape or position the ear of an animal; any prominence or projection on an object, -- usually one for support or attachment; a lug; a handle; as, the ears of a tub, a skillet, or dish. The ears of a boat are outside kneepieces near the bow. See Illust. of Bell. 4. (Arch.) (a) Same as Acroterium (a). (b) Same as Crossette. 5. Privilege of being kindly heard; favor; attention. Dionysius . . . would give no ear to his suit. Bacon. Friends, Romans, countrymen, lend me your ears. Shak. About the ears, in close proximity to; near at hand. -- By the ears, in close contest; as, to set by the ears; to fall together by the ears; to be by the ears. -- Button ear (in dogs), an ear which falls forward and completely hides the inside. -- Ear finger, the little finger. -- Ear of Dionysius, a kind of ear trumpet with a flexible tube; -- named from the Sicilian tyrant, who constructed a device to overhear the prisoners in his dungeons. -- Ear sand (Anat.), otoliths. See Otolith. -- Ear snail (Zoöl.), any snail of the genus Auricula and allied genera. -- Ear stones (Anat.), otoliths. See Otolith. -- Ear trumpet, an instrument to aid in hearing. It consists of a tube broad at the outer end, and narrowing to a slender extremity which enters the ear, thus collecting and intensifying sounds so as to assist the hearing of a partially deaf person. -- Ear vesicle (Zoöl.), a simple auditory organ, occurring in many worms, mollusks, etc. It consists of a small sac containing a fluid and one or more solid concretions or otocysts. -- Rose ear (in dogs), an ear which folds backward and shows part of the inside. -- To give ear to, to listen to; to heed, as advice or one advising. "Give ear unto my song." Goldsmith. -- To have one's ear, to be listened to with favor. -- Up to the ears, deeply submerged; almost overwhelmed; as, to be in trouble up to one's ears. [Colloq.] EAR Ear, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Eared; p. pr. & vb. n. Earing.] Defn: To take in with the ears; to hear. [Sportive] "I eared her language." Two Noble Kinsmen. EAR Ear, n. Etym: [AS. ear; akin to D. aar, OHG. ahir, G. ähre, Icel., Sw., & Dan. ax, Goth. ahs. . Cf. Awn, Edge.] Defn: The spike or head of any cereal (as, wheat, rye, barley, Indian corn, etc.), containing the kernels. First the blade, then the ear, after that the full corn in the ear. Mark iv. 28. EAR Ear, v. i. Defn: To put forth ears in growing; to form ears, as grain; as, this corn ears well. EAR Ear, v. t. Etym: [OE. erien, AS. erian; akin to OFries. era, OHG. erran, MHG. eren, ern, Prov. G. aren, ären, Icel. erja, Goth. arjan, Lith. arti, OSlav. orati, L. arare, Gr. Arable.] Defn: To plow or till; to cultivate. "To ear the land." Shak. EARABLE Ear"a*ble, a. Defn: Arable; tillable. [Archaic] EARACHE Ear"ache`, n. Defn: Ache or pain in the ear. EARAL Ear"al, a. Defn: Receiving by the ear. [Obs.] Hewyt. EAR-BORED Ear"-bored`, a. Defn: Having the ear perforated. EARCAP Ear"cap`, n. Defn: A cap or cover to protect the ear from cold. EARCOCKLE Ear"coc`kle, n. (Bot.) Defn: A disease in wheat, in which the blackened and contracted grain, or ear, is filled with minute worms. EARDROP Ear"drop`, n. 1. A pendant for the ear; an earring; as, a pair of eardrops. 2. (Bot.) Defn: A species of primrose. See Auricula. EARDRUM Ear"drum`, n. (Anat.) Defn: The tympanum. See Illust. of Ear. EARED Eared, a. 1. Having (such or so many) ears; -- used in composition; as, long- eared-eared; sharp-eared; full-eared; ten-eared. 2. (Zoöl.) Defn: Having external ears; having tufts of feathers resembling ears. Eared owl (Zoöl.), an owl having earlike tufts of feathers, as the long-eared owl, and short-eared owl. -- Eared seal (Zoöl.), any seal of the family Otariidæ, including the fur seals and hair seals. See Seal. EARINESS Ear"i*ness, n. Etym: [Scotch ery or eiry affected with fear.] Defn: Fear or timidity, especially of something supernatural. [Written also eiryness.] The sense of eariness, as twilight came on. De Quincey. EARING Ear"ing, n. (Naut.) (a) A line used to fasten the upper