[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

the persons who eat it; order of dishes at table; also, a set or number of vessels ordinarily used at table; as, the service was tardy and awkward; a service of plate or glass. There was no extraordinary service seen on the board. Hakewill. 9. (Law) Defn: The act of bringing to notice, either actually or constructively, in such manner as is prescribed by law; as, the service of a subpoena or an attachment. 10. (Naut.) Defn: The materials used for serving a rope, etc., as spun yarn, small lines, etc. 11. (Tennis) Defn: The act of serving the ball. 12. Act of serving or covering. See Serve, v. t., 13. Service book, a prayer book or missal. -- Service line (Tennis), a line parallel to the net, and at a distance of 21 feet from it. -- Service of a writ, process, etc. (Law), personal delivery or communication of the writ or process, etc., to the party to be affected by it, so as to subject him to its operation; the reading of it to the person to whom notice is intended to be given, or the leaving of an attested copy with the person or his attorney, or at his usual place of abode. -- Service of an attachment (Law), the seizing of the person or goods according to the direction. -- Service of an execution (Law), the levying of it upon the goods, estate, or person of the defendant. -- Service pipe, a pipe connecting mains with a dwelling, as in gas pipes, and the like. Tomlinson. -- To accept service. (Law) See under Accept. -- To see service (Mil.), to do duty in the presence of the enemy, or in actual war. SERVICEABLE Serv"ice*a*ble, a. 1. Doing service; promoting happiness, interest, advantage, or any good; useful to any end; adapted to any good end use; beneficial; advantageous. "Serviceable to religion and learning". Atterbury. "Serviceable tools." Macaulay. I know thee well, a serviceable villain. Shak. 2. Prepared for rendering service; capable of, or fit for, the performance of duty; hence, active; diligent. Courteous he was, lowly, and servysable. Chaucer. Bright-hearnessed angels sit in order serviceable. Milton. Seeing her so sweet and serviceable. Tennnyson. -- Serv"ice*a*ble*ness, n. -- Serv"ice*a*bly, adv. SERVICEAGE Serv"ice*age, n. Defn: Servitude. [Obs.] Fairfax. SERVICE CAP; SERVICE HAT Serv"ice cap or hat. (Mil.) Defn: A cap or hat worn by officers or enlisted men when full-dress uniform, or dress uniform, is not worn. In the United States army the service cap is round, about 3½ inches high, flat-topped, with a visor. The service hat is of soft felt of khaki color, with broad brim and high crown, creased down the middle. SERVICE UNIFORM Service uniform. (Mil. & Nav.) Defn: The uniform prescribed in regulations for active or routine service, in distinction from dress, full dress, etc. In the United States army it is of olive-drab woolen or khaki-colored cotton, with all metal attachments of dull-finish bronze, with the exceptional of insignia of rank, which are of gold or silver finish. SERVIENT Serv"i*ent, a. Etym: [L. serviens, -entis, p. pr. See Serve.] Defn: Subordinate. [Obs. except in law.] Dyer. Servient tenement or estate (Law), that on which the burden of a servitude or an easement is imposed. Cf. Dominant estate, under Dominant. Gale & Whately. SERVIETTE Ser`viette", n. Etym: [F.] Defn: A table napkin. SERVILE Serv"ile, a. Etym: [L. servile, fr. servus a servant or slave: cf. F. servile. See Serve.] 1. Of or pertaining to a servant or slave; befitting a servant or a slave; proceeding from dependence; hence, meanly submissive; slavish; mean; cringing; fawning; as, servile flattery; servile fear; servile obedience. She must bend the servile knee. Thomson. Fearing dying pays death servile breath. Shak. 2. Held in subjection; dependent; enslaved. Even fortune rules no more, O servile land! Pope. 3. (Gram.) (a) Not belonging to the original root; as, a servile letter. (b) Not itself sounded, but serving to lengthen the preceeding vowel, as e in tune. SERVILE Serv"ile, n. (Gram.) Defn: An element which forms no part of the original root; -- opposed to radical. SERVILELY Serv"ile*ly, adv. Defn: In a servile manner; slavishly. SERVILENESS Serv"ile*ness, n. Defn: Quality of being servile; servility. SERVILITY Ser*vil"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. servilité.] Defn: The quality or state of being servile; servileness. To be a queen in bondage is more vile Than is a slave in base servility. Shak. SERVING Serv"ing, Defn: a & n. from Serve. Serving board (Naut.), a flat piece of wood used in serving ropes. -- Serving maid, a female servant; a maidservant. -- Serving mallet (Naut.), a wooden instrument shaped like a mallet, used in serving ropes. -- Serving man, a male servant, or attendant; a manservant. -- Serving stuff (Naut.), small lines for serving ropes. SERVITE Serv"ite, n. Etym: [It. servita.] (R.C.Ch.) Defn: One of the order of the Religious Servants of the Holy Virgin, founded in Florence in 1223. SERVITOR Serv"i*tor, n. Etym: [L., fr. servire to serve: cf. F. serviteur.] 1. One who serves; a servant; an attendant; one who acts under another; a follower or adherent. Your trusty and most valiant servitor. Shak. 2. (Univ. of Oxford, Eng.) Defn: An undergraduate, partly supported by the college funds, whose duty it formerly was to wait at table. A servitor corresponded to a sizar in Cambridge and Dublin universities. SERVITORSHIP Serv"i*tor*ship, n. Defn: The office, rank, or condition of a servitor. Boswell. SERVITUDE Serv"i*tude, n. Etym: [L. servitudo: cf. F. servitude.] 1. The state of voluntary or compulsory subjection to a master; the condition of being bound to service; the condition of a slave; slavery; bondage; hence, a state of slavish dependence. You would have sold your king to slaughter, His princes and his peers to servitude. Shak. A splendid servitude; . . . for he that rises up early, and goeSouth. 2. Servants, collectively. [Obs.] After him a cumbrous train Of herds and flocks, and numerous servitude. Milton. 3. (Law) Defn: A right whereby one thing is subject to another thing or person for use or convenience, contrary to the common right. Note: The object of a servitude is either to suffer something to be done by another, or to omit to do something, with respect to a thing. The easements of the English correspond in some respects with the servitudes of the Roman law. Both terms are used by common law writers, and often indiscriminately. The former, however, rather indicates the right enjoyed, and the latter the burden imposed. Ayliffe. Erskine. E. Washburn. Penal servitude. See under Penal. -- Personal servitude (Law), that which arises when the use of a thing is granted as a real right to a particular individual other than the proprietor. -- Predial servitude (Law), that which one estate owes to another estate. When it related to lands, vineyards, gardens, or the like, it is called rural; when it related to houses and buildings, it is called urban. SERVITURE Serv"i*ture, n. Defn: Servants, collectively. [Obs.] SERVITUTE Serv"i*tute, n. Etym: [L. servitus.] Defn: Servitude. [Obs.] SERVO-MOTOR Ser`vo-mo"tor, n. [Sometimes erroneously spelt serro-motor.] [F. servo-moteur. See Serf; Motor.] (Mach.) Defn: A relay apparatus; specif.: (a) An auxiliary motor, regulated by a hand lever, for quickly and easily moving the reversing gear of a large marine engine into any desired position indicated by that of the hand lever, which controls the valve of the motor. (b) In a Whitehead torpedo, a compressed-air motor, for moving the rudders so as to correct deviations from the course. SERYE Se"rye, n. Defn: A series. [Obs.] Chaucer. SESAME Ses"a*me, n. Etym: [L. sesamum, sesama, Gr. sésame.] (Bot.) Defn: Either of two annual herbaceous plants of the genus Sesamum (S. Indicum, and S. orientale), from the seeds of which an oil is expressed; also, the small obovate, flattish seeds of these plants, sometimes used as food. See Benne. Open Sesame, the magical command which opened the door of the robber's den in the Arabian Nights' tale of "The Forty Thieves;" hence, a magical password. -- Sesame grass. (Bot.) Same as Gama grass. SESAMOID Ses"a*moid, a. Etym: [Gr. sésamoïde.] 1. Resembling in shape the seeds of sesame. 2. (Anat.) Defn: Of or pertaining to the sesamoid bones or cartilages; sesamoidal. Sesamoid bones, Sesamoid cartilages (Anat.), small bones or cartilages formed in tendons, like the patella and pisiform in man. SESAMOID Ses"a*moid, n. (Anat.) Defn: A sesamoid bone or cartilage. SESAMOIDAL Ses`a*moid"al, a. (Anat.) Defn: Sesamoid. SESBAN Ses"ban, n. Etym: [F., fr. Ar. saisaban, seiseban, a kind of tree, fr. Per. sisaban seed of cinquefoil.] (Bot.) Defn: A leguminous shrub (Sesbania aculeata) which furnishes a fiber used for making ropes. Note: The name is applied also to the similar plant, Sesbania Ægyptiaca, and other species of the same genus. SESQUI- Ses`qui-. Etym: [L., one half more, one and a half.] (Chem.) Defn: A combining form (also used adjectively) denoting that three atoms or equivalents of the substance to the name of which it is prefixed are combined with two of some other