[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

certain festivals on which devotion leads the faithful to attend mass. Shipley. -- Days of grace. See Grace. -- Days of obligation (R. C. Ch.), festival days when it is obligatory on the faithful to attend Mass. Shipley. -- Day owl, (Zoöl.), an owl that flies by day. See Hawk owl. -- Day rule (Eng. Law), an order of court (now abolished) allowing a prisoner, under certain circumstances, to go beyond the prison limits for a single day. -- Day school, one which the pupils attend only in daytime, in distinction from a boarding school. -- Day sight. (Med.) See Hemeralopia. -- Day's work (Naut.), the account or reckoning of a ship's course for twenty-four hours, from noon to noon. -- From day to day, as time passes; in the course of time; as, he improves from day to day. -- Jewish day, the time between sunset and sunset. -- Mean solar day (Astron.), the mean or average of all the apparent solar days of the year. -- One day, One of these days, at an uncertain time, usually of the future, rarely of the past; sooner or later. "Well, niece, I hope to see you one day fitted with a husband." Shak. -- Only from day to day, without certainty of continuance; temporarily. Bacon. -- Sidereal day, the interval between two successive transits of the first point of Aries over the same meridian. The Sidereal day is 23 h. 56 m. 4.09 s. of mean solar time. -- To win the day, to gain the victory, to be successful. S. Butler. -- Week day, any day of the week except Sunday; a working day. -- Working day. (a) A day when work may be legally done, in distinction from Sundays and legal holidays. (b) The number of hours, determined by law or custom, during which a workman, hired at a stated price per day, must work to be entitled to a day's pay. DAYAKS Day"aks, n. pl. (Ethnol.) Defn: See Dyaks. DAYBOOK Day"book, n. Defn: A journal of accounts; a primary record book in which are recorded the debts and credits, or accounts of the day, in their order, and from which they are transferred to the journal. DAYBREAK Day"break`, n. Defn: The time of the first appearance of light in the morning. DAY-COAL Day"-coal`, n. (Mining) Defn: The upper stratum of coal, as nearest the light or surface. DAYDREAM Day"dream`, n. Defn: A vain fancy speculation; a reverie; a castle in the air; unfounded hope. Mrs. Lambert's little daydream was over. Thackeray. DAYDREAMER Day"dream`er, n. Defn: One given to draydreams. DAYFLOWER Day"flow`er, n. (Bot.) Defn: A genus consisting mostly of tropical perennial herbs (Commelina), having ephemeral flowers. DAYFLY Day"fly`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: A neuropterous insect of the genus Ephemera and related genera, of many species, and inhabiting fresh water in the larval state; the ephemeral fly; -- so called because it commonly lives but one day in the winged or adult state. See Ephemeral fly, under Ephemeral. DAY-LABOR Day"-la`bor, n. Defn: Labor hired or performed by the day. Milton. DAY-LABORER Day"-la`bor*er, n. Defn: One who works by the day; -- usually applied to a farm laborer, or to a workman who does not work at any particular trade. Goldsmith. DAYLIGHT Day"light`, n. 1. The light of day as opposed to the darkness of night; the light of the sun, as opposed to that of the moon or to artificial light. 2. pl. Defn: The eyes. [Prov. Eng.] Wright. DAY LILY Day" lil`y. (Bot.) (a) A genus of plants (Hemerocallis) closely resembling true lilies, but having tuberous rootstocks instead of bulbs. The common species have long narrow leaves and either yellow or tawny-orange flowers. (b) A genus of plants (Funkia) differing from the last in having ovate veiny leaves, and large white or blue flowers. DAYMAID Day"maid`, n. Defn: A dairymaid. [Obs.] DAYMARE Day"mare`, n. Etym: [Day + mare incubus.] (Med.) Defn: A kind of incubus which occurs during wakefulness, attended by the peculiar pressure on the chest which characterizes nightmare. Dunglison. DAY-NET Day"-net`, n. Defn: A net for catching small birds. DAY-PEEP Day"-peep`, n. Defn: The dawn. [Poetic] Milton. DAYSMAN Days"man, n. Etym: [From day in the sense of day fixed for trial.] Defn: An umpire or arbiter; a mediator. Neither is there any daysman betwixt us. Job ix. 33. DAYSPRING Day"spring, n. Defn: The beginning of the day, or first appearance of light; the dawn; hence, the beginning. Milton. The tender mercy of our God; whereby the dayspring from on high hath visited us. Luke i. 78. DAY-STAR Day"-star`, n. 1. The morning star; the star which ushers in the day. A dark place, until the day dawn, and the day-star arise in your hearts. 2 Peter i. 19. 2. The sun, as the orb of day. [Poetic] So sinks the day-star in the ocean bed, And yet anon repairs his drooping head, And tricks his beams, and with new-spangled ore Flames in the forehead of the morning sky. Milton. DAYTIME Day"time`, n. Defn: The time during which there is daylight, as distinguished from the night. DAYWOMAN Day"wom`an, n. Defn: A dairymaid. [Obs.] DAZE Daze, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Dazed; p. pr. & vb. n. Dazing.] Etym: [OE. dasen, prob. from Icel. dasask to become weary, a reflexive verb; cf. Sw. dasa to lie idle, and OD. daesen to be foolish, insane, daes, dwaes, D. dwaas, foolish, insane, AS. dw, dysig, stupid. Dizzy, Doze.] Defn: To stupefy with excess of light; with a blow, with cold, or with fear; to confuse; to benumb. While flashing beams do daze his feeble eyen. Spenser. Such souls, Whose sudden visitations daze the world. Sir H. Taylor. He comes out of the room in a dazed state, that is an odd though a sufficient substitute for interest. Dickens. DAZE Daze, n. 1. The state of being dazed; as, he was in a daze. [Colloq.] 2. (Mining) Defn: A glittering stone. DAZZLE Daz"zle, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Dazzled; p. pr. & vb. n. Dazzling.] Etym: [Freq. of daze.] 1. To overpower with light; to confuse the sight of by brilliance of light. Those heavenly shapes Will dazzle now the earthly, with their blaze Insufferably bright. Milton. An unreflected light did never yet Dazzle the vision feminine. Sir H. Taylor. 2. To bewilder or surprise with brilliancy or display of any kind. "Dazzled and drove back his enemies." Shak. DAZZLE Daz"zle, v. i. 1. To be overpoweringly or intensely bright; to excite admiration by brilliancy. Ah, friend! to dazzle, let the vain design. Pope. 2. To be overpowered by light; to be confused by excess of brightness. An overlight maketh the eyes dazzle. Bacon. I dare not trust these eyes; They dance in mists, and dazzle with surprise. Dryden. DAZZLE Daz"zle, n. Defn: A light of dazzling brilliancy. DAZZLEMENT Daz"zle*ment, n. Defn: Dazzling flash, glare, or burst of light. Donne. DAZZLINGLY Daz"zling*ly, adv. Defn: In a dazzling manner. DE- De-. Defn: A prefix from Latin de down, from, away; as in debark, decline, decease, deduct, decamp. In words from the French it is equivalent to Latin dis- apart, away; or sometimes to de. Cf. Dis-. It is negative and opposite in derange, deform, destroy, etc. It is intensive in deprave, despoil, declare, desolate, etc. DEACON Dea"con, n. Etym: [OE. diakne, deakne, deken, AS. diacon, deacon, L. diaconus, fr. Gr. dean.] 1. (Eccl.) Defn: An officer in Christian churches appointed to perform certain subordinate duties varying in different communions. In the Roman Catholic and Episcopal churches, a person admitted to the lowest order in the ministry, subordinate to the bishops and priests. In Presbyterian churches, he is subordinate to the minister and elders, and has charge of certain duties connected with the communion service and the care of the poor. In Congregational churches, he is subordinate to the pastor, and has duties as in the Presbyterian church. 2. The chairman of an incorporated company. [Scot.] DEACON Dea"con, v. t. Defn: To read aloud each line of (a psalm or hymn) before singing it, -- usually with off. [Colloq. New. Eng.] See Line, v. t. Note: The expression is derived from a former custom in the Congregational churches of New England. It was part of the office of a deacon to read aloud the psalm given out, one line at a time, the congregation singing each line as soon as read; -- called, also, lining out the psalm. DEACONESS Dea"con*ess, n. (Eccl.) Defn: A female deacon; as: (a) (Primitive Ch.) One of an order of women whose duties resembled those of deacons. (b) (Ch. of Eng. and Prot. Epis. Ch.) Defn: A woman set apart for church work by a bishop. (c) A woman chosen as a helper in church work, as among the Congregationalists. DEACONHOOD Dea"con*hood, n. Defn: The state of being a deacon; office of a deacon; deaconship. DEACONRY Dea"con*ry, n. Defn: See Deaconship. DEACONSHIP Dea"con*ship, n. Defn: The office or ministry of a deacon or deaconess. DEAD Dead,