[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

from home as a servant. [U. S.] -- To live with. (a) To dwell or to be a lodger with. (b) To cohabit with; to have intercourse with, as male with female. LIVE Live, v. t. 1. To spend, as one's life; to pass; to maintain; to continue in, constantly or habitually; as, to live an idle or a useful life. 2. To act habitually in conformity with; to practice. To live the Gospel. Foxe. To live down, to live so as to subdue or refute; as, to live down slander. LIVE Live, a. Etym: [Abbreviated from alive. See Alive, Life.] 1. Having life; alive; living; not dead. If one man's ox hurt another's, that he die; then they shall sell the live ox, and divide the money of it. Ex. xxi. 35. 2. Being in a state of ignition; burning; having active properties; as, a live coal; live embers. " The live ether." Thomson. 3. Full of earnestness; active; wide awake; glowing; as, a live man, or orator. 4. Vivid; bright. " The live carnation." Thomson. 5. (Engin.) Defn: Imparting power; having motion; as, the live spindle of a lathe. Live birth, the condition of being born in such a state that acts of life are manifested after the extrusion of the whole body. Dunglison. -- Live box, a cell for holding living objects under microscopical examination. P. H. Gosse. -- Live feathers, feathers which have been plucked from the living bird, and are therefore stronger and more elastic. -- Live gang. (Sawing) See under Gang. -- Live grass (Bot.), a grass of the genus Eragrostis. -- Live load (Engin.), a suddenly applied load; a varying load; a moving load; as a moving train of cars on a bridge, or wind pressure on a roof. Live oak (Bot.), a species of oak (Quercus virens), growing in the Southern States, of great durability, and highly esteemed for ship timber. In California the Q. chrysolepis and some other species are also called live oaks. -- Live ring (Engin.), a circular train of rollers upon which a swing bridge, or turntable, rests, and which travels around a circular track when the bridge or table turns. -- Live steam , steam direct from the boiler, used for any purpose, in distinction from exhaust steam. -- Live stock, horses, cattle, and other domestic animals kept on a farm. whole body. LIVE Live, n. Defn: Life. [Obs.] Chaucer. On live, in life; alive. [Obs.] See Alive. Chaucer. LIVED Lived, a. Defn: Having life; -- used only in composition; as, long-lived; short-lived. LIVE-FOREVER Live"-for*ev`er, n. (Bot.) Defn: A plant (Sedum Telephium) with fleshy leaves, which has extreme powers of resisting drought; garden ox-pine. LIVELIHED Live"li*hed, n. Defn: See Livelihood. [Obs.] LIVELIHOOD Live"li*hood, n. Etym: [OE. livelode, liflode, prop., course of life, life's support, maintenance, fr. AS. lif life + lad road, way, maintenance. Confused with livelihood liveliness. See Life, and Lode.] Defn: Subsistence or living, as dependent on some means of support; support of life; maintenance. The opportunities of gaining an honest livelihood. Addison. It is their profession and livelihood to get their living by practices for which they deserve to forfeit their lives. South. LIVELIHOOD Live"li*hood, n. Etym: [Lively + -hood.] Defn: Liveliness; appearance of life. [Obs.] Shak. LIVELILY Live"li*ly, adv. Defn: In a lively manner. [Obs.] Lamb. LIVELINESS Live"li*ness, n. Etym: [From Lively.] 1. The quality or state of being lively or animated; sprightliness; vivacity; animation; spirit; as, the liveliness of youth, contrasted with the gravity of age. B. Jonson. 2. An appearance of life, animation, or spirit; as, the liveliness of the eye or the countenance in a portrait. 3. Briskness; activity; effervescence, as of liquors. Syn. -- Sprightliness; gayety; animation; vivacity; smartness; briskness; activity. -- Liveliness, Gayety, Animation, Vivacity. Liveliness is an habitual feeling of life and interest; gayety refers more to a temporary excitement of the animal spirits; animation implies a warmth of emotion and a corresponding vividness of expressing it, awakened by the presence of something which strongly affects the mind; vivacity is a feeling between liveliness and animation, having the permanency of the one, and, to some extent, the warmth of the other. Liveliness of imagination; gayety of heart; animation of countenance; vivacity of gesture or conversation. LIVELODE Live"lode`, n. Etym: [See 1st Livelihood.] Defn: Course of life; means of support; livelihood. [Obs.] LIVELONG Live"long`, a. Etym: [For lifelong. Cf. Lifelong.] 1. Whole; entire; long in passing; -- used of time, as day or night, in adverbial phrases, and usually with a sense of tediousness. The obscure bird Clamored the livelong night. Shak. How could she sit the livelong day, Yet never ask us once to play Swift. 2. Lasting; durable. [Obs.] Thou hast built thyself a livelong monument. Milton. LIVELY Live"ly, a. [Compar. Livelier; superl. Liveliest.] Etym: [For lifely. Cf. Lifelike.] 1. Endowed with or manifesting life; living. Chaplets of gold and silver resembling lively flowers and leaves. Holland. 2. Brisk; vivacious; active; as, a lively youth. But wherefore comes old Manoa in such haste, With youthful steps Much livelier than erewhile He seems. Milton. 3. Gay; airy; animated; spirited. From grave to gay, from lively to severe. Pope. 4. Representing life; lifelike. [Obs.] I spied the lively picture of my father. Massinger. 5. Bright; vivid; glowing; strong; vigorous. The colors of the prism are manifestly more full, intense, and lively that those of natural bodies. Sir I. Newton. His faith must be not only living, but lively too. South. Lively stones (Script.), saints, as being quickened by the Spirit, and active in holiness. Syn. -- Brisk; vigorous; quick; nimble; smart; active; alert; sprightly; animated; spirited; prompt; earnest; strong; energetic; vivid; vivacious; blithe; gleeful; airy; gay; jocund. LIVELY Live"ly, adv. 1. In a brisk, active, or animated manner; briskly; vigorously. Hayward. 2. With strong resemblance of life. [Obs.] Thou counterfeitest most lively. Shak. LIVER Liv"er, n. 1. One who, or that which, lives. And try if life be worth the liver's care. Prior. 2. A resident; a dweller; as, a liver in Brooklyn. 3. One whose course of life has some marked characteristic (expressed by an adjective); as, a free liver. Fast liver, one who lives in an extravagant and dissipated way. -- Free liver, Good liver, one given to the pleasures of the table. -- Loose liver, a person who lives a somewhat dissolute life. LIVER Liv"er, n. Etym: [AS. lifer; akin to D. liver, G. leber, OHG. lebara, Icel. lifr, Sw. lefver, and perh. to Gr. live, v.] (Anat.) Defn: A very large glandular and vascular organ in the visceral cavity of all vertebrates. Note: Most of the venous blood from the alimentary canal passes through it on its way back to the heart; and it secretes the bile, produces glycogen, and in other ways changes the blood which passes through it. In man it is situated immediately beneath the diaphragm and mainly on the right side. See Bile, Digestive, and Glycogen. The liver of invertebrate animals is usually made up of cæcal tubes, and differs materially, in form and function, from that of vertebrates. Floating liver. See Wandering liver, under Wandering. -- Liver of antimony, Liver of sulphur. (Old Chem.) See Hepar. -- Liver brown, Liver color, the color of liver, a dark, reddish brown. -- Liver shark (Zoöl.), a very large shark (Cetorhinus maximus), inhabiting the northern coasts both of Europe and North America. It sometimes becomes forty feet in length, being one of the largest sharks known; but it has small simple teeth, and is not dangerous. It is captured for the sake of its liver, which often yields several barrels of oil. It has gill rakers, resembling whalebone, by means of which it separates small animals from the sea water. Called also basking shark, bone shark, hoemother, homer, and sailfish. -- Liver spots, yellowish brown patches or spots of chloasma. LIVER Liv"er, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: The glossy ibis (Ibis falcinellus); -- said to have given its name to the city of Liverpool. LIVER-COLORED Liv"er-col`ored, a. Defn: Having a color like liver; dark reddish brown. LIVERED Liv"ered, a. Defn: Having (such) a liver; used in composition; as, white-livered. LIVER-GROWN Liv"er-grown`, a. Defn: Having an enlarged liver. Dunglison. LIVERIED Liv"er*ied, a. Defn: Wearing a livery. See Livery, 3. The liveried servants wait. Parnell. LIVERING Liv"er*ing, n. Defn: A kind of pudding or sausage made of liver or pork. [Obs.] Chapman. LIVERLEAF Liv"er*leaf`, n. (Bot.) Defn: Same as Liverwort. LIVERWORT Liv"er*wort`, n. (Bot.) 1. A ranunculaceous plant (Anemone Hepatica) with pretty white or bluish flowers and a three-lobed leaf; -- called also squirrel cups. 2. A flowerless plant (Marchantia polymorpha), having an irregularly lobed, spreading, and forking frond. Note: From this plant many others of the same order (Hepaticæ) have been vaguely called liverworts, esp. those of the tribe Marchantiaceæ. See Illust. of Hepatica. LIVERY Liv"er*y, n.; pl. Liveries. Etym: [OE. livere, F. livrée, formerly, a gift of clothes made by the master to his servants, prop., a thing delivered, fr. livrer to deliver, L.