[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

from unlawful indulgence; sometimes, moderation in sexual indulgence. If they [the unmarried and widows] have not continency, let them marry. 1 Cor. vii. 9 (Rev. Ver. ). Chastity is either abstinence or continence: abstinence is that of virgins or widows; continence, that of married persons. Jer. Taylor. 3. Uninterrupted course; continuity. [Obs.] Ayliffe. CONTINENT Con"ti*nent, a. Etym: [L. continens, -entis, prop., p. pr. of continere to hold together, to repress: cf. F. continent. See Contain.] 1. Serving to restrain or limit; restraining; opposing. [Obs.] Shak. 2. Exercising restraint as to the indulgence of desires or passions; temperate; moderate. Have a continent forbearance till the speed of his rage goes slower. Shak. 3. Abstaining from sexual intercourse; exercising restraint upon the sexual appetite; esp., abstaining from illicit sexual intercourse; chaste. My past life Hath been as continent, as chaste, as true, As I am now unhappy. Shak. 4. Not interrupted; connected; continuous; as, a continent fever. [Obs.] The northeast part of Asia is, if not continent with the west side of America, yet certainly it is the least disoined by sea of all that coast. Berrewood. CONTINENT Con"ti*nent, n. Etym: [L. continens, prop., a holding together: cf. F. continent. See Continent, a.] 1. That which contains anything; a receptacle. [Obs.] The smaller continent which we call a pipkin. Bp. Kennet. 2. One of the grand divisions of land on the globe; the main land; specifically (Phys. Geog.), a large body of land differing from an island, not merely in its size, but in its structure, which is that of a large basin bordered by mountain chains; as, the continent of North America. Note: The continents are now usually regarded as six in number: North America, South America, Europe, Asia, Africa, and Australia. But other large bodies of land are also reffered to as continents; as, the Antarctic continent; the continent of Greenland. Europe, Asia, and Africa are often grouped together as the Eastern Continent, and North and South America as the Western Continent. The Continent, the main land of Europe, as distinguished from the islands, especially from England. CONTINENTAL Con`ti*nen"tal, a. 1. Of or pertaining to a continent. 2. Of or pertaining to the main land of Europe, in distinction from the adjacent islands, especially England; as, a continental tour; a continental coalition. Macaulay. No former king had involved himself so frequently in the labyrinth of continental alliances. Hallam. 3. (Amer. Hist.) Defn: Of or pertaining to the confederated colonies collectively, in the time of the Revolutionary War; as, Continental money. The army before Boston was designated as the Continental army, in contradistinction to that under General Gage, which was called the "Ministerial army." W. Irving. Continental Congress. See under Congress. -- Continental system (Hist.), the blockade of Great Britain ordered by Napoleon by the decree of Berlin, Nov. 21, 1806; the object being to strike a blow at the maritime and commercial supremacy of Great Britain, by cutting her off from all intercourse with the continent of Europe. CONTINENTAL Con`ti*nen"tal, n. (Amer. Hist.) Defn: A soldier in the Continental army, or a piece of the Continental currency. See Continental, a., 3. CONTINENTAL DRIVE Con`ti*nen"tal drive. (Automobiles) Defn: A transmission arrangement in which the longitudinal crank shaft drives the rear wheels through a clutch, change-speed gear, countershaft, and two parallel side chains, in order. CONTINENTAL GLACIER Continental glacier. Defn: A broad ice sheet resting on a plain or plateau and spreading outward from a central névé, or region of accumulation. CONTINENTAL PRONUNCIATION Continental pronunciation (of Latin and Greek.) Defn: A method of pronouncing Latin and Greek in which the vowels have their more familiar Continental values, as in German and Italian, the consonants being pronounced mostly as in English. The stricter form of this method of pronouncing Latin approaches the Roman, the modified form the English, pronunciation. The Continental method of Greek pronunciation is often called Erasmian. CONTINENTAL SYSTEM Continental system. (Hist.) Defn: The system of commercial blockade aiming to exclude England from commerce with the Continent instituted by the Berlin decree, which Napoleon I. issued from Berlin Nov. 21, 1806, declaring the British Isles to be in a state of blockade, and British subjects, property, and merchandise subject to capture, and excluding British ships from all parts of Europe under French dominion. The retaliatory measures of England were followed by the Milan decree, issued by Napoleon from Milan Dec. 17, 1807, imposing further restrictions, and declaring every ship going to or from a port of England or her colonies to be lawful prize. CONTINENTLY Con"ti*nent*ly, adv. Defn: In a continent manner; chastely; moderately; temperately. CONTINGENCE Con*tin"gence, n. Defn: See Contingency. CONTINGENCY Con*tin"gen*cy, n,; pl. Contingencies. Etym: [Cf. F. contingence.] 1. Union or connection; the state of touching or contact. "Point of contingency." J. Gregory. 2. The quality or state of being contingent or casual; the possibility of coming to pass. Aristotle says we are not to build certain rules on the contingency of human actions. South. 3. An event which may or may not occur; that which is possible or probable; a fortuitous event; a chance. The remarkable position of the queen rendering her death a most important contingency. Hallam. 4. An adjunct or accessory. Wordsworth. 5. (Law) Defn: A certain possible event that may or may not happen, by which, when happening, some particular title may be affected. Syn. -- Casualty; accident; chance. CONTINGENT Con*tin"gent, a. Etym: [L. contingens, -entis, p.pr. of contingere to touch on all sides, to happen; con- + tangere to touch: cf. F. contingent. See Tangent, Tact.] 1. Possible, or liable, but not certain, to occur; incidental; casual. Weighing so much actual crime against so much contingent advantage. Burke. 2. Dependent on that which is undetermined or unknown; as, the success of his undertaking is contingent upon events which he can not control. "Uncertain and contingent causes." Tillotson. 3. (Law) Defn: Dependent for effect on something that may or may not occur; as, a contingent estate. If a contingent legacy be left to any one when he attains, or if he attains, the age of twenty-one. Blackstone. CONTINGENT Con*tin"gent, n. 1. An event which may or may not happen; that which is unforeseen, undetermined, or dependent on something future; a contingency. His understanding could almost pierce into future contingets. South. 2. That which falls to one in a division or apportionment among a number; a suitable share; proportion; esp., a quota of troops. From the Alps to the border of Flanders, contingents were required . . . 200,000 men were in arms. Milman. CONTINGENTLY Con*tin"gent*ly, adv. Defn: In a contingent manner; without design or foresight; accidentally. CONTINGENTNESS Con*tin"gent*ness, n. Defn: The state of being contingent; fortuitousness. CONTINUABLE Con*tin"u*a*ble, a. Defn: Capable of being continued [R.] CONTINUAL Con*tin"u*al, a. Etym: [OE. continuel, F. continuel. See Continue.] 1. Proceeding without interruption or cesstaion; continuous; unceasing; lasting; abiding. He that is of a merry heart hath a continual feast. Prov. xv. 15. 2. Occuring in steady and rapid succession; very frequent; often repeated. The eye is deligh by a continental succession of small landscapes. W. Irwing. Continual proportionals (Math.), quantities in continued proportion. Brande & C. Syn. -- Constant; prepetual; incessant; unceasing; uninterrupted; unintermitted; continuous. See Constant, and Continuous. CONTINUALLY Con*tin"u*al*ly, adv. 1. Without cessation; unceasingly; continuously; as, the current flows continually. Why do not all animals continually increase in bigness Bentley. 2. In regular or repeated succession; very often. Thou shalt eat bread at my table continually. 2 Sam. ix. 7. CONTINUANCE Con*tin"u*ance, n. Etym: [OF. continuance.] 1. A holding on, or remaining in a particular state; permanence, as of condition, habits, abode, etc.; perseverance; constancy; duration; stay. Great plagues, and of long continuence. Deut. xxviii. 59. Patient continuance i well-doing. Rom. ii. 7. 2. Uninterrupted succession; continuation; constant renewell; perpetuation; propagation. The brute immedistely regards his own preservation or the continuance of his species. Addison. 3. A holding together; continuity. [Obs.] Bacon. 4. (Law) (a) The adjournment of the proceedings in a cause from one day, or from one stated term of a court, to another. (b) The entry of such adjuornment and the grounds thereof on the record. CONTINUANT Con*tin"u*ant, a. Defn: Continuing; prolonged; sustained; as, a continuant sound. -- n. Defn: A continuant sound; a letter whose sound may be prolonged. CONTINUATE Con*tin"u*ate, a. Etym: [L. continuatus, p.p. See Continue.] 1. Immediately united together; intimately connocted. [R.] We are of Him and in Him, even as though our very flesh and bones should be made continuate with his. Hooker. 2. Uninterrupted; unbroken; continual; continued. An untirable and continuate goodness. Shak. CONTINUATION Con*tin`u*a"tion, n. Etym: [L. continuatio: cf. F. connuation.] 1. That act or state of continuing; the state of being continued; uninterrupted extension or succession; prolongation; propagation. Preventing the continuation of the royal line. Macaulay. 2. That which extends, increases, supplements, or carries on; as, the continuation of a story. My continuation of the version of Statius. Pope. CONTINUATIVE Con*tin"u*a*tive, n. Etym: [Cf. F. continuatif.] 1. (Logic) Defn: A term or expression denoting continuance.