[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

circles parallel to the ecliptic, diminishing as they recede from it. -- Circle of perpetual apparition, at any given place, the boundary of that space around the elevated pole, within which the stars never set. Its distance from the pole is equal to the latitude of the place. -- Circle of perpetual occultation, at any given place, the boundary of the space around the depressed pole, within which the stars never rise. -- Circle of the sphere, a circle upon the surface of the sphere, called a great circle when its plane passes through the center of the sphere; in all other cases, a small circle. -- Diurnal circle. See under Diurnal. -- Dress circle, a gallery in a theater, generally the one containing the prominent and more expensive seats. -- Druidical circles (Eng. Antiq.), a popular name for certain ancient inclosures formed by rude stones circularly arranged, as at Stonehenge, near Salisbury. -- Family circle, a gallery in a theater, usually one containing inexpensive seats. -- Horary circles (Dialing), the lines on dials which show the hours. -- Osculating circle of a curve (Geom.), the circle which touches the curve at some point in the curve, and close to the point more nearly coincides with the curve than any other circle. This circle is used as a measure of the curvature of the curve at the point, and hence is called circle of curvature. -- Pitch circle. See under Pitch. -- Vertical circle, an azimuth circle. -- Voltaic circle or circuit. See under Circuit. -- To square the circle. See under Square. Syn. -- Ring; circlet; compass; circuit; inclosure. CIRCLE Cir"cle, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Circled; p. pr. & vb. n. Circling.] Etym: [OE. cerclen, F. cercler, fr. L. circulare to make round. See Circle, n., and cf. Circulate.] 1. To move around; to revolve around. Other planets circle other suns. Pope. 2. To encompass, as by a circle; to surround; to inclose; to encircle. Prior. Pope. Their heads are circled with a short turban. Dampier. So he lies, circled with evil. Coleridge. To circle in, to confine; to hem in; to keep together; as, to circle bodies in. Sir K. Digby. CIRCLE Cir"cle, v. i. Defn: To move circularly; to form a circle; to circulate. Thy name shall circle round the gaping through. Byron. CIRCLED Cir"cled, a. Defn: Having the form of a circle; round. "Monthly changes in her circled orb." Shak. CIRCLER Cir"cler, n. Defn: A mean or inferior poet, perhaps from his habit of wandering around as a stroller; an itinerant poet. Also, a name given to the cyclic poets. See under Cyclic, a. [Obs.] B. Jonson. CIRCLET Cir"clet, n. 1. A little circle; esp., an ornament for the person, having the form of a circle; that which encircles, as a ring, a bracelet, or a headband. Her fair locks in circlet be enrolled. Spenser. 2. A round body; an orb. Pope. Fairest of stars . . . that crown'st the smiling morn With thy bright circlet. Milton. 3. A circular piece of wood put under a dish at table. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. CIRCOCELE Cir"co*cele, n. Defn: See Cirsocele. CIRCUIT Cir"cuit, n. Etym: [F. circuit, fr. L. circuitus, fr. circuire or circumire to go around; circum around + ire to go.] 1. The act of moving or revolving around, or as in a circle or orbit; a revolution; as, the periodical circuit of the earth round the sun. Watts. 2. The circumference of, or distance round, any space; the measure of a line round an area. The circuit or compass of Ireland is 1,800 miles. J. Stow. 3. That which encircles anything, as a ring or crown. The golden circuit on my head. Shak. 4. The space inclosed within a circle, or within limits. A circuit wide inclosed with goodliest trees. Milton. 5. A regular or appointed journeying from place to place in the exercise of one's calling, as of a judge, or a preacher. 6. (a) (Law) A certain division of a state or country, established by law for a judge or judges to visit, for the administration of justice. Bouvier. (b) (Methodist Church) A district in which an itinerant preacher labors. 7. Circumlocution. [Obs.] "Thou hast used no circuit of words." Huloet. Circuit court (Law), a court which sits successively in different places in its circuit (see Circuit, 6). In the United States, the federal circuit courts are commonly presided over by a judge of the supreme court, or a special circuit judge, together with the judge of the district court. They have jurisdiction within statutory limits, both in law and equity, in matters of federal cognizance. Some of the individual States also have circuit courts, which have general statutory jurisdiction of the same class, in matters of State cognizance. -- Circuit or Circuity of action (Law), a longer course of proceedings than is necessary to attain the object in view. -- To make a circuit, to go around; to go a roundabout way. -- Voltaic or Galvanic circuit or circle, a continous electrical communication between the two poles of a battery; an arrangement of voltaic elements or couples with proper conductors, by which a continuous current of electricity is established. CIRCUIT Cir"cuit, v. i. Defn: To move in a circle; to go round; to circulate. [Obs.] J. Philips. CIRCUIT Cir"cuit, v. t. Defn: To travel around. [Obs.] "Having circuited the air." T. Warton. CIRCUITEER Cir`cuit*eer", n. Defn: A circuiter. Pope. CIRCUITER Cir"cuit*er, n. Defn: One who travels a circuit, as a circuit judge. [R.] R. Whitlock. CIRCUITION Cir`cu*i"tion, n. Etym: [L. circuitio. See Circuit.] Defn: The act of going round; circumlocution. [R.] CIRCUITOUS Cir*cu"i*tous, a. Etym: [LL. circuitosus.] Defn: Going round in a circuit; roundabout; indirect; as, a circuitous road; a circuitous manner of accompalishing an end. -- Cir*cu"i*tous*ly, adv. -- Cir*cu"i*tous*ness, n. Syn. -- Tortuous; winding; sinuous; serpentine. CIRCUITY Cir*cu"i*ty, n. Defn: A going round in a circle; a course not direct; a roundabout way of proceeding. CIRCULABLE Cir"cu*la*ble, a. Defn: That may be circulated. CIRCULAR Cir"cu*lar, a. Etym: [L. circularis, fr. circulus circle: cf. F. circulaire. See Circle.] 1. In the form of, or bounded by, a circle; round. 2. repeating itself; ending in itself; reverting to the point of beginning; hence, illogical; inconclusive; as, circular reasoning. 3. Adhering to a fixed circle of legends; cyclic; hence, mean; inferior. See Cyclic poets, under Cyclic. Had Virgil been a circular poet, and closely adhered to history, how could the Romans have had Dido Dennis. 4. Addressed to a circle, or to a number of persons having a common interest; circulated, or intended for circulation; as, a circular letter. A proclamation of Henry III., . . . doubtless circular throughout England. Hallam. 5. Perfect; complete. [Obs.] A man so absolute and circular In all those wished-for rarities that may take A virgin captive. Massinger. Circular are, any portion of the circumference of a circle. -- Circular cubics (Math.), curves of the third order which are imagined to pass through the two circular points at infinity. -- Circular functions. (Math.) See under Function. -- Circular instruments, mathematical instruments employed for measuring angles, in which the graduation extends round the whole circumference of a circle, or 360º. -- Circular lines, straight lines pertaining to the circle, as sines, tangents, secants, etc. -- Circular note or letter. (a) (Com.) See under Credit. (b) (Diplomacy) A letter addressed in identical terms to a number of persons. -- Circular numbers (Arith.), those whose powers terminate in the same digits as the roots themselves; as 5 and 6, whose squares are 25 and 36. Bailey. Barlow. -- Circular points at infinity (Geom.), two imaginary points at infinite distance through which every circle in the plane is, in the theory of curves, imagined to pass. -- Circular polarization. (Min.) See under Polarization. -- Circular or Globular sailing (Naut.), the method of sailing by the arc of a great circle. -- Circular saw. See under Saw. CIRCULAR Cir"cu*lar, n. Etym: [Cf. (for sense 1) F. circulaire, lettre circulaire. See Circular, a.] 1. A circular letter, or paper, usually printed, copies of which are addressed or given to various persons; as, a business circular. 2. A sleeveless cloak, cut in circular form. CIRCULARISE circularise v. 1. to canvass by distributing letters. Syn. -- circularize. [WordNet 1.5] 2. to distribute circulars to. Syn. -- circularize. [WordNet 1.5] 3. to to pass around, as information. Syn. -- circulate, circularize, distribute, disseminate, propagate, broadcast, spread, diffuse, disperse. [WordNet 1.5] CIRCULARITY Cir`cu*lar"i*ty, n. Etym: [LL. circularitas.] Defn: The quality or state of being circular; a circular form. CIRCULARLY Cir"cu*lar*ly, adv. Defn: In a circular manner. CIRCULARY Cir"cu*la*ry, a. Defn: Circular; illogical. [Obs. & .] "Cross and circulary speeches." Hooker. CIRCULATE Cir"cu*late, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Ciorculated; P. pr. & vb. n. Circulating.] Etym: [L. circulatus, p. p. of circulare, v. t., to surround, make round, circulari, v. i., to gather into a circle. See Circle.] 1. To move in a circle or