[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

[Obs.] B. Jonson. FRICKLE Fric"kle, n. Defn: A bushel basket. [Obs.] FRICTION Fric"tion, n. Etym: [L. frictio, fr. fricare, frictum,to rub: cf. F. friction. See Fray to rub, arid cf. Dentifrice.] 1. The act of rubbing the surface of one body against that of another; attrition; in hygiene, the act of rubbing the body with the hand, with flannel, or with a brush etc., to excite the skin to healthy action. 2. (Mech.) Defn: The resistance which a body meets with from the surface on which it moves. It may be resistance to sliding motion, or to rolling motion. 3. A clashing between two persons or parties in opinions or work; a disagreement tending to prevent or retard progress. Angle of friction (Mech.), the angle which a plane onwhich a body is lying makes with a horizontal plane,when the hody is just ready to slide dewn the plane. Note: This angle varies for different bodies, and for planes of different materials. -- Anti-friction wheels (Mach.), wheels turning freely on small pivots, and sustaining, at the angle formed by their circumferences, the pivot or journal of a revolving shaft, to relieve it of friction; -- called also friction wheels. -- Friction balls, or Friction rollers, balls or rollers placed so as to receive the pressure or weight of bodies in motion, and relieve friction, as in the hub of a bicycle wheel. -- Friction brake (Mach.), a form of dynamometer for measuring the power a motor exerts. A clamp around the revolving shaft or fly wheel of the motor resists the motion by its friction, the work thus absorbed being ascertained by observing the force required to keep the clamp from revolving with the shaft; a Prony brake. -- Friction chocks, brakes attached to the common standing garrison carriages of guns, so as to raise the trucks or wheels off the platform when the gun begins to recoil, and prevent its running back. Earrow. -- Friction clutch, Friction coupling, an engaging and disengaging gear for revolving shafts, pulleys, etc., acting by friction; esp.: (a) A device in which a piece on one shaft or pulley is so forcibly pressed against a piece on another shaft that the two will revolve together; as, in the illustration, the cone a on one shaft, when thrust forcibly into the corresponding hollow cone b on the other shaft, compels the shafts to rotate together, by the hold the friction of the conical surfaces gives. (b) A toothed clutch, one member of which, instead of being made fast on its shaft, is held by friction and can turn, by slipping, under excessive strain or in starting. -- Friction drop hammer, one in which the hammer is raised for striking by the friction of revolving rollers which nip the hammer rod. -- Friction gear. See Frictional gearing, under Frictional. -- Friction machine, an electrical machine, generating electricity by friction. -- Friction meter, an instrument for measuring friction, as in testing lubricants. -- Friction powder, Friction composition, a composition of chlorate of potassium, antimony, sulphide, etc, which readily ignites by friction. -- Friction primer, Friction tube, a tube used for firing cannon by means of the friction of a roughened wire in the friction powder or composition with which the tube is filled -- Friction wheel (Mach.), one of the wheels in frictional gearing. See under Frictional. FRICTIONAL Fric"tion*al, a. Defn: Relating to friction; moved by friction; produced by friction; as, frictional electricity. Frictional gearing, wheels which transmit motion by surface friction instead of teeth. The faces are sometimes made more or less V-shaped to increase or decrease friction, as required. FRICTIONLESS Fric"tion*less, a. Defn: Having no friction. FRIDAY Fri"day, n. Etym: [AS. frigedæg, fr. Frigu, the gooddes of marriage; friqu love + dæg day; cf. Icel. Frigg name of a goddess, the wife of Odin or Wodan, OHG. Friatag, Isel. Frjadagr. AS. frigu is prob. from the root of E. friend, free. See Free, and Day.] Defn: The sixth day of the week, following Thursday and preceding Saturday. FRIDGE Fridge, v. t. Etym: [AS. frician to dance, from free bold. Cf. Freak, n.] Defn: To rub; to fray. [Obs.] Sterne. FRIDSTOL; FRITHSTOOL Frid"stol`, Frith`stool", n. Etym: [AS. fril. See Fred, and Stool.] Defn: A seat in churches near the altar, to which offenders formerly fled for sanctuary. [Written variously fridstool, freedstool, etc.] [Obs.] FRIED Fried, Defn: imp. & p. p. of Fry. FRIEND Friend, n. Etym: [OR. frend, freond, AS. freónd, prop. p. pr. of freón, freógan, to love; akin to D. vriend friend, OS. friund friend, friohan to love, OHG. friunt friend, G. freund, Icel. frændi kinsman, Sw. frände. Goth. frij friend, frij to love. sq. root83. See Free, and cf. Fiend.] 1. One who entertains for another suo Want gives to know the flatterer from the friend. Dryden. A friend that sticketh closer than a brother. Prov. xviii. 24. 2. One not inimical or hostile; one not a foe or enemy; also, one of the same nation, party, kin, etc., whose friendly feelings may be assumed. The word is some times used as a term of friendly address. Friend, how camest thou in hither Matt. xxii. 12. 3. One who looks propitiously on a cause, an institution, a project, and the like; a favorer; a promoter; as, a friend to commerce, to poetry, to an institution. 4. One of a religious sect characterized by disuse of outward rites and an ordained ministry, by simplicity of dress and speech, and esp. by opposition to war and a desire to live at peace with all men. They are popularly called Quakers. America was first visited by Friends in 1656. T. Chase. 5. A paramour of either sex. [Obs.] Shak. A friend at court or in court, one disposed to act as a friend in a place of special opportunity or influence. -- To be friends with, to have friendly relations with. "He's . . . friends with Cæsar." Shak. -- To make friends with, to become reconciled to or on friendly terms with. "Having now made friends with the Athenians." Jowett (Thucyd. ). FRIEND Friend, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Friended; p. pr, & vb. n. Friending.] Defn: To act as the friend of; to favor; to countenance; to befriend. [Obs.] Fortune friends the bold. Spenser. FRIENDED Friend"ed, a. 1. Having friends; [Obs.] 2. Iuclined to love; well-disposed. [Obs.] Shak. FRIENDING Friend"ing, n. Defn: Friendliness. [Obs.] Shak. FRIENDLESS Friend"less, a. Etym: [AS. freóndleás.] Defn: Destitute of friends; forsaken. -- Friend"less*ness, n. FRIENDLILY Friend"li*ly, adv. Defn: In a friendly manner. Pope. FRIENDLINESS Friend"li*ness, n. Defn: The condition or quality of being friendly. Sir P. Sidney. FRIENDLY Friend"ly, a. Etym: [AS. freéndlice.] 1. Having the temper and disposition of a friend; disposed to promote the good of another; kind; favorable. 2. Appropriate to, or implying, friendship; befitting friends; amicable. In friendly relations with his moderate opponents. Macaulay. 3. Not hostile; as, a friendly power or state. 4. Promoting the good of any person; favorable; propitious; serviceable; as, a friendly breeze or gale. On the first friendly bank he throws him down. Addison. Syn. -- Amicable; kind; conciliatory; propitious; favorable. See Amicable. FRIENDLY Friend"ly, adv. Defn: In the manner of friends; amicably; like friends. [Obs.] Shak. In whom all graces that can perfect beauty Are friendly met. Beau. & Fl. FRIENDSHIP Friend"ship, n. Etym: [AS. freóndscipe. See Friend, and -ship.] 1. The state of being friends; friendly relation, or attachment, to a person, or between persons; affection arising from mutual esteem and good will; friendliness; amity; good will. There is little friendship in the world. Bacon. There can be no friendship without confidence, and no confidence without integrity. Rambler. Preferred by friendship, and not chosen by sufficiency. Spenser. 2. Kindly aid; help; assistance, [Obs.] Some friendship will it [a hovel] lend you gainst the tempest. Shak. 3. Aptness to unite; conformity; affinity; harmony; correspondence. [Obs.] Those colors . . . have a friendship with each other. Dryden. FRIER Fri"er, n. Defn: One who fries. FRIESE Friese, n. Defn: Same as Friesic, n. FRIESIC Fries"ic, a. Defn: Of or pertaining to Friesland, a province in the northern part of the Netherlands. FRIESIC Fries"ic, n. Defn: The language of the Frisians, a Teutonic people formerly occupying a large part of the coast of Holland and Northwestern Germany. The modern dialects of Friesic are spoken chiefly in the province of Friesland, and on some of the islands near the coast of Germany and Denmark. FRIESISH Fries"ish, a. Defn: Friesic. [R.] FRIEZE Frieze, n. Etym: [Perh. the same word as frieze a, kind of cloth. Cf. Friz.] (Arch.) (a) That part of the entablature of an order which is between the architrave and cornice. It is a flat member or face, either uniform or broken by triglyphs, and often enriched with figures and other ornaments of sculpture. (b) Any sculptured or richly ornamented band in a building or, by extension, in rich pieces of furniture. See Illust. of Column. Cornice or frieze with