[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

the pretty subglobose flowers of two European kinds of heather (Erica Tetralix, and E. cinerea). HEATHERY Heath"er*y, a. Defn: Heathy; abounding in heather; of the nature of heath. HEATHY Heath"y, a. Defn: Full of heath; abounding with heath; as, heathy land; heathy hills. Sir W. Scott. HEATING Heat"ing, a. Defn: That heats or imparts heat; promoting warmth or heat; exciting action; stimulating; as, heating medicines or applications. Heating surface (Steam Boilers), the aggregate surface exposed to fire or to the heated products of combustion, esp. of all the plates or sheets that are exposed to water on their opposite surfaces; -- called also fire surface. HEATINGLY Heat"ing*ly, adv. Defn: In a heating manner; so as to make or become hot or heated. HEATLESS Heat"less, a. Defn: Destitute of heat; cold. Beau. & Fl. HEAVE Heave, v. t. [imp. Heaved, or Hove (; p. p. Heaved, Hove, formerly Hoven (; p. pr. & vb. n. Heaving.] Etym: [OE. heven, hebben, As. hebban; akin to OS. hebbian, D. heffen, OHG. heffan, hevan, G. heven, Icel. häfva, Dan. hæve, Goth. hafjan, L. capere to take, seize; cf. Gr. Accept, Behoof, Capacious, Forceps, haft, Receipt.] 1. To cause to move upward or onward by a lifting effort; to lift; to raise; to hoist; -- often with up; as, the wave heaved the boat on land. One heaved ahigh, to be hurled down below. Shak. Note: Heave, as now used, implies that the thing raised is heavy or hard to move; but formerly it was used in a less restricted sense. Here a little child I stand, Heaving up my either hand. Herrick. 2. To throw; to cast; -- obsolete, provincial, or colloquial, except in certain nautical phrases; as, to heave the lead; to heave the log. 3. To force from, or into, any position; to cause to move; also, to throw off; -- mostly used in certain nautical phrases; as, to heave the ship ahead. 4. To raise or force from the breast; to utter with effort; as, to heave a sigh. The wretched animal heaved forth such groans. Shak. 5. To cause to swell or rise, as the breast or bosom. The glittering, finny swarms That heave our friths, and crowd upon our shores. Thomson. To heave a cable short (Naut.), to haul in cable till the ship is almost perpendicularly above the anchor. -- To heave a ship ahead (Naut.), to warp her ahead when not under sail, as by means of cables. -- To heave a ship down (Naut.), to throw or lay her down on one side; to careen her. -- To heave a ship to (Naut.), to bring the ship's head to the wind, and stop her motion. -- To heave about (Naut.), to put about suddenly. -- To heave in (Naut.), to shorten (cable). -- To heave in stays (Naut.), to put a vessel on the other tack. -- To heave out a sail (Naut.), to unfurl it. -- To heave taut (Naut.), to turn a capstan, etc., till the rope becomes strained. See Taut, and Tight. -- To heave the lead (Naut.), to take soundings with lead and line. -- To heave the log. (Naut.) See Log. -- To heave up anchor (Naut.), to raise it from the bottom of the sea or elsewhere. HEAVE Heave, v. i. 1. To be thrown up or raised; to rise upward, as a tower or mound. And the huge columns heave into the sky. Pope. Where heaves the turf in many a moldering heap. Gray. The heaving sods of Bunker Hill. E. Everett. 2. To rise and fall with alternate motions, as the lungs in heavy breathing, as waves in a heavy sea, as ships on the billows, as the earth when broken up by frost, etc.; to swell; to dilate; to expand; to distend; hence, to labor; to struggle. Frequent for breath his panting bosom heaves. Prior. The heaving plain of ocean. Byron. 3. To make an effort to raise, throw, or move anything; to strain to do something difficult. The Church of England had struggled and heaved at a reformation ever since Wyclif's days. Atterbury. 4. To make an effort to vomit; to retch; to vomit. To heave at. (a) To make an effort at. (b) To attack, to oppose. [Obs.] Fuller. -- To heave in sight (as a ship at sea), to come in sight; to appear. -- To heave up, to vomit. [Low] HEAVE Heave, n. 1. An effort to raise something, as a weight, or one's self, or to move something heavy. After many strains and heaves He got up to his saddle eaves. Hudibras. 2. An upward motion; a rising; a swell or distention, as of the breast in difficult breathing, of the waves, of the earth in an earthquake, and the like. There's matter in these sighs, these profound heaves, You must translate. Shak. None could guess whether the next heave of the earthquake would settle . . . or swallow them. Dryden. 3. (Geol.) Defn: A horizontal dislocation in a metallic lode, taking place at an intersection with another lode. HEAVEN Heav"en, n. Etym: [OE. heven, hefen, heofen, AS. heofon; akin to OS. hevan, LG. heben, heven, Icel. hifinn; of uncertain origin, cf. D. hemel, G. himmel, Icel. himmin, Goth. himins; perh. akin to, or influenced by, the root of E. heave, or from a root signifying to cover, cf. Goth. gaham to put on, clothe one's self, G. hemd shirt, and perh. E. chemise.] 1. The expanse of space surrounding the earth; esp., that which seems to be over the earth like a great arch or dome; the firmament; the sky; the place where the sun, moon, and stars appear; -- often used in the plural in this sense. I never saw the heavens so dim by day. Shak. When my eyes shall be turned to behold for the last time the sun in heaven. D. Webster. 2. The dwelling place of the Deity; the abode of bliss; the place or state of the blessed after death. Unto the God of love, high heaven's King. Spenser. It is a knell That summons thee to heaven or to hell. Shak. New thoughts of God, new hopes of Heaven. Keble. Note: In this general sense heaven and its corresponding words in other languages have as various definite interpretations as there are phases of religious belief. 3. The sovereign of heaven; God; also, the assembly of the blessed, collectively; -- used variously in this sense, as in No. 2. Her prayers, whom Heaven delights to hear. Shak. The will And high permission of all-ruling Heaven. Milton. 4. Any place of supreme happiness or great comfort; perfect felicity; bliss; a sublime or exalted condition; as, a heaven of delight. "A heaven of beauty." Shak. "The brightest heaven of invention." Shak. O bed! bed! delicious bed! That heaven upon earth to the weary head! Hood. Note: Heaven is very often used, esp. with participles, in forming compound words, most of which need no special explanation; as, heaven-appeasing, heaven-aspiring, heaven-begot, heaven-born, heaven- bred, heaven-conducted, heaven-descended, heaven-directed, heaven- exalted, heaven-given, heaven-guided, heaven-inflicted, heaven- inspired, heaven-instructed, heaven-kissing, heaven-loved, heaven- moving, heaven-protected, heaven-taught, heaven-warring, and the like. HEAVEN Heav"en, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Heavened; p. pr. & vb. n. Heavening.] Defn: To place in happiness or bliss, as if in heaven; to beatify. [R.] We are happy as the bird whose nest Is heavened in the hush of purple hills. G. Massey. HEAVENIZE Heav"en*ize, v. t. Defn: To render like heaven or fit for heaven. [R.] Bp. Hall. HEAVENLINESS Heav"en*li*ness, n. Etym: [From Heavenly.] Defn: The state or quality of being heavenly. Sir J. Davies. HEAVENLY Heav"en*ly, a. Etym: [AS. heofonic.] 1. Pertaining to, resembling, or inhabiting heaven; celestial; not earthly; as, heavenly regions; heavenly music. As is the heavenly, such are they also that are heavenly. 1 Cor. xv. 48. 2. Appropriate to heaven in character or happiness; perfect; pure; supremely blessed; as, a heavenly race; the heavenly, throng. The love of heaven makes one heavenly. Sir P. Sidney. HEAVENLY Heav"en*ly, adv. 1. In a manner resembling that of heaven. "She was heavenly true." Shak. 2. By the influence or agency of heaven. Out heavenly guided soul shall climb. Milton. HEAVENLYMINDED; HEAVENLY-MINDED Heav"en*ly*mind`ed, Heav"en*ly-mind`ed, a. Defn: Having the thoughts and affections placed on, or suitable for, heaven and heavenly objects; devout; godly; pious. Milner. -- Heav"en*ly*mind`ed*ness, n. HEAVENWARD Heav"en*ward, a & adv. Defn: Toward heaven. HEAVE OFFERING Heave" of`fer*ing. (Jewish Antiq.) Defn: An offering or oblation heaved up or elevated before the altar, as the shoulder of the peace offering. See Wave offering. Ex. xxix. 27. HEAVER Heav"er, n. 1. One who, or that which, heaves or lifts; a laborer employed on docks in handling freight; as, a coal heaver. 2. (Naut.) Defn: A bar used as a lever. Totten. HEAVES Heaves, n. Defn: A disease of horses, characterized by difficult breathing, with heaving of the flank, wheezing, flatulency, and a peculiar cough; broken wind. HEAVILY Heav"i*ly,