[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

n. (Chem.) Defn: A white, crystallizable, bitter substance extracted from oil of cascarilla. CASCARON Cas`ca*ron", n. [Sp. cascarón.] Defn: Lit., an eggshell; hence, an eggshell filled with confetti to be thrown during balls, carnivals, etc. [Western U. S.] CASE Case, n. Etym: [OF. casse, F. caisse (cf. It. cassa), fr. L. capsa chest, box, case, fr. caper to take, hold See Capacious, and cf. 4th Chase, Cash, Enchase, 3d Sash.] 1. A box, sheath, or covering; as, a case for holding goods; a case for spectacles; the case of a watch; the case (capsule) of a cartridge; a case (cover) for a book. 2. A box and its contents; the quantity contained in a box; as, a case of goods; a case of instruments. 3. (Print.) Defn: A shallow tray divided into compartments or "boxes" for holding type. Note: Cases for type are usually arranged in sets of two, called respectively the upper and the lower case. The upper case contains capitals, small capitals, accented; the lower case contains the small letters, figures, marks of punctuation, quadrats, and spaces. 4. An inclosing frame; a casing; as, a door case; a window case. 5. (Mining) Defn: A small fissure which admits water to the workings. Knight. CASE Case, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Cased; p. pr. & vb. n. Casing.] 1. To cover or protect with, or as with, a case; to inclose. The man who, cased in steel, had passed whole days and nights in the saddle. Prescott. 2. To strip the skin from; as, to case a box. [Obs.] CASE Case, n. Etym: [F. cas, fr. L. casus, fr. cadere to fall, to happen. Cf. Chance.] 1. Chance; accident; hap; opportunity. [Obs.] By aventure, or sort, or cas. Chaucer. 2. That which befalls, comes, or happens; an event; an instance; a circumstance, or all the circumstamces; condition; state of things; affair; as, a strange case; a case of injustice; the case of the Indian tribes. In any case thou shalt deliver him the pledge. Deut. xxiv. 13. If the case of the man be so with his wife. Matt. xix. 10. And when a lady's in the case. You know all other things give place. Gay. You think this madness but a common case. Pope. I am in case to justle a constable, Shak. 3. (Med. & Surg.) Defn: A patient under treatment; an instance of sickness or injury; as, ten cases of fever; also, the history of a disease or injury. A proper remedy in hypochondriacal cases. Arbuthnot. 4. (Law) Defn: The matters of fact or conditions involved in a suit, as distinguished from the questions of law; a suit or action at law; a cause. Let us consider the reason of the case, for nothing is law that is not reason. Sir John Powell. Not one case in the reports of our courts. Steele. 5. (Gram.) Defn: One of the forms, or the inflections or changes of form, of a noun, pronoun, or adjective, which indicate its relation to other words, and in the aggregate constitute its declension; the relation which a noun or pronoun sustains to some other word. Case is properly a falling off from the nominative or first state of word; the name for which, however, is now, by extension of its signification, applied also to the nominative. J. W. Gibbs. Note: Cases other than the nominative are oblique cases. Case endings are terminations by which certain cases are distinguished. In old English, as in Latin, nouns had several cases distinguished by case endings, but in modern English only that of the possessive case is retained. Action on the case (Law), according to the old classification (now obsolete), was an action for redress of wrongs or injuries to person or property not specially provided against by law, in which the whole cause of complaint was set out in the writ; -- called also trespass on the case, or simply case. -- All a case, a matter of indifference. [Obs.] "It is all a case to me." L'Estrange. -- Case at bar. See under Bar, n. -- Case divinity, casuistry. -- Case lawyer, one versed in the reports of cases rather than in the science of the law. -- Case stated or agreed on (Law), a statement in writing of facts agreed on and submitted to the court for a decision of the legal points arising on them. -- A hard case, an abandoned or incorrigible person. [Colloq.] -- In any case, whatever may be the state of affairs; anyhow. -- In case, or In case that, if; supposing that; in the event or contingency; if it should happen that. "In case we are surprised, keep by me." W. Irving. -- In good case, in good condition, health, or state of body. -- To put a case, to suppose a hypothetical or illustrative case. Syn. -- Situation, condition, state; circumstances; plight; predicament; occurrence; contingency; accident; event; conjuncture; cause; action; suit. CASE Case, v. i. Defn: To propose hypothetical cases. [Obs.] "Casing upon the matter." L'Estrange. CASEATION Ca`se*a"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. caséation. See Casein.] (Med.) Defn: A degeneration of animal tissue into a cheesy or curdy mass. CASE-BAY Case"-bay`, n. (Arch.) (a) The space between two principals or girders. (b) One of the joists framed between a pair of girders in naked flooring. CASEHARDEN Case"hard`en, v. t. 1. To subject to a process which converts the surface of iron into steel. 2. To render insensible to good influences. CASEHARDENED Case"hard`ened, a. 1. Having the surface hardened, as iron tools. 2. Hardened against, or insusceptible to, good influences; rendered callous by persistence in wrongdoing or resistance of good influences; -- said of persons. CASEHARDENING Case"hard`en*ing, n. Defn: The act or process of converting the surface of iron into steel. Ure. Note: Casehardening is now commonly effected by cementation with charcoal or other carbonizing material, the depth and degree of hardening (carbonization) depending on the time during which the iron is exposed to the heat. See Cementation. CASEIC Ca"se*ic, a. Etym: [Cf. F. caséique, fr. L. caseus cheese.] Defn: OF or pertaining to cheese; as, caseic acid. CASEIN Ca"se*in, n. Etym: [Cf. F. caséine, fr. L. caseur cheese. Cf. Cheese.] (Physiol. Chem.) Defn: A proteid substance present in both the animal and the vegetable kingdom. In the animal kindom it is chiefly found in milk, and constitutes the main part of the curd separated by rennet; in the vegetable kingdom it is found more or less abundantly in the seeds of leguminous plants. Its reactions resemble those of alkali albumin. [Written also caseine.] CASE KNIFE Case" knife`. 1. A knife carried in a sheath or case. Addison. 2. A large table knife; -- so called from being formerly kept in a case. CASEMATE Case"mate, n. Etym: [F. casemate, fr. It. casamatta, prob. from casa house + matto, f. matta, mad, weak, feeble, dim. from the same source as E. -mate in checkmate.] 1. (Fort.) Defn: A bombproof chamber, usually of masonry, in which cannon may be placed, to be fired through embrasures; or one capable of being used as a magazine, or for quartering troops. 2. (Arch.) Defn: A hollow molding, chiefly in cornices. CASEMATED Case"ma`ted, a. Defn: Furnished with, protected by, or built like, a casemate. Campbell. CASEMENT Case"ment, n. Etym: [Shortened fr. encasement. See Incase 1st Case, and cf. Incasement.] (Arch.) Defn: A window sash opening on hinges affixed to the upright side of the frame into which it is fitted. (Poetically) A window. A casement of the great chamber window. Shak. CASEMENTED Case"ment*ed, a. Defn: Having a casement or casements. CASEOSE Ca"se*ose, n. [Casein + -ose.] (Physiol.Chem.) Defn: A soluble product (proteose) formed in the gastric and pancreatic digestion of casein and caseinogen. CASEOUS Ca"se*ous, a. Etym: [L. caseus. Cf. Casein.] Defn: Of, pertaining to, or resembling, cheese; having the qualities of cheese; cheesy. Caseous degeneration, a morbid process, in scrofulous or consumptive persons, in which the products of inflammation are converted into a cheesy substance which is neither absorbed nor organized. CASERN Ca"sern, n. Etym: [F. caserne.] Defn: A lodging for soldiers in garrison towns, usually near the rampart; barracks. Bescherelle. CASE SHOT Case" shot`. (Mil.) Defn: A collection of small projectiles, inclosed in a case or canister. Note: In the United States a case shot is a thin spherical or oblong cast-iron shell containing musket balls and a bursting charge, with a time fuse; -- called in Europe shrapnel. In Europe the term case shot is applied to what in the United States is called canister. Wilhelm. CASE SYSTEM Case system. (Law) Defn: The system of teaching law in which the instruction is primarily a historical and inductive study of leading or selected cases, with or without the use of textbooks for reference and collateral reading. CASEUM Ca"se*um, n. Etym: [L. caseus cheese.] Defn: Same as Casein. CASEWORM Case"worm`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: A worm or grub that makes for itself a case. See Caddice. CASH Cash, n. Etym: [F. caisse case,