[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

-- so called because found in the pomegranate. GRANATITE Gran"a*tite, n. Defn: See Staurolite. GRAND Grand, a. [Compar. Grander; superl. Grandest.] Etym: [OE. grant, grount, OF. grant, F. grand, fr. L. grandis; perh. akin to gravis heavy, E. grave, a. Cf. Grandee.] 1. Of large size or extent; great; extensive; hence, relatively great; greatest; chief; principal; as, a grand mountain; a grand army; a grand mistake. "Our grand foe, Satan." Milton. Making so bold . . . to unseal Their grand commission. Shak. 2. Great in size, and fine or imposing in appearance or impression; illustrious, dignifled, or noble (said of persons); majestic, splendid, magnificent, or sublime (said of things); as, a grand monarch; a grand lord; a grand general; a grand view; a grand conception. They are the highest models of expression, the unapproached masters of the grand style. M. Arnold. 3. Having higher rank or more dignity, size, or importance than other persons or things of the same name; as, a grand lodge; a grand vizier; a grand piano, etc. 4. Standing in the second or some more remote degree of parentage or descent; -- generalIy used in composition; as, grandfather, grandson, grandchild, etc. What cause Mov'd our grand parents, in that happy state, Favor'd of Heaven so highly, to fall off From their Creator. Milton. Grand action, a pianoforte action, used in grand pianos, in which special devices are employed to obtain perfect action of the hammer in striking and leaving the string. -- Grand Army of the Republic, an organized voluntary association of men who served in the Union army or navy during the civil war in the United States. The order has chapters, called Posts, throughout the country. -- Grand cross. (a) The highest rank of knighthood in the Order of the Bath. (b) A knight grand cross. -- Grand cordon, the cordon or broad ribbon, identified with the highest grade in certain honorary orders; hence, a person who holds that grade. -- Grand days (Eng. Law), certain days in the terms which are observed as holidays in the inns of court and chancery (Candlemas, Ascension, St. John Baptist's, and All Saints' Days); called also Dies non juridici. -- Grand duchess. (a) The wife or widow of a grand duke. (b) A lady having the sovereignty of a duchy in her own right. (c) In Russia, a daughter of the Czar. -- Grand duke. (a) A sovereign duke, inferior in rank to a king; as, the Grand Duke of Tuscany. (b) In Russia, a son of the Czar. (c) (Zoöl.) The European great horned owl or eagle owl (Bubo maximas). -- Grand-guard, or Grandegarde, a piece of plate armor used in tournaments as an extra protection for the left shoulder and breast. -- Grand juror, a member of a grand jury. -- Grand jury (Law), a jury of not less than twelve men, and not more than twenty-three, whose duty it is, in private session, to examine into accusations against persons charged with crime, and if they see just cause, then to find bills of indictment against them, to be presented to the court; -- called also grand inquest. -- Grand juryman, a grand juror. -- Grand larceny. (Law) See under Larceny. -- Grand lodge, the chief lodge, or governing body, among Freemasons and other secret orders. -- Grand master. (a) The head of one of the military orders of knighthood, as the Templars, Hospitallers, etc. (b) The head of the order of Freemasons or of Good Templars, etc. -- Grand paunch, a glutton or gourmand. [Obs.] Holland. -- Grand pensionary. See under Pensionary. -- Grand piano (Mus.), a large piano, usually harp-shaped, in which the wires or strings are generally triplicated, increasing the power, and all the mechanism is introduced in the most effective manner, regardless of the size of the instrument. -- Grand relief (Sculp.), alto relievo. -- Grand Seignior. See under Seignior. -- Grand stand, the principal stand, or erection for spectators, at a, race course, etc. -- Grand vicar (Eccl.), a principal vicar; an ecclesiastical delegate in France. -- Grand vizier. See under Vizier. Syn. -- Magnificent; sublime; majestic; dignified; elevated; stately; august; pompous; lofty; eralted; noble. -- Grand, Magnificent, Sublime. Grand, in reference to objects of taste, is applied to that which expands the mind by a sense of vastness and majesty; magnificent is applied to anything which is imposing from its splendor; sublime describes that which is awful and elevating. A cataract is grand; a rich and varied landscape is magnificent; an overhanging precipice is sublime. "Grandeur admits of degrees and modifications; but magnificence is that which has already reached the highest degree of superiority naturally belonging to the object in question." Crabb. GRANDAM Gran"dam, n. Etym: [F. grande, fem. of grand + dame. See Grand, and Dame.] Defn: An old woman; specifically, a grandmother. Shak. GRANDAUNT Grand"aunt", n. Etym: [Cf. F. grand'tante.] Defn: The aunt of one's father or mother. GRANDCHILD Grand"child", n. Defn: A son's or daughter's child; a child in the second degree of descent. GRANDDAUGHTER Grand"daugh"ter, n. Defn: The daughter of one's son or daughter. GRAND-DUCAL Grand"-du"cal, a. Defn: Of or pertaining to a grand duke. H. James. GRANDEE Gran*dee", n. Etym: [Sp. grande. See Grand.] Defn: A man of elevated rank or station; a nobleman. In Spain, a nobleman of the first rank, who may be covered in the king's presence. GRANDEESHIP Gran*dee"ship, n. Defn: The rank or estate of a grandee; lordship. H. Swinburne. GRANDEUR Gran"deur, n. Etym: [F., fr. grand. See Grand.] Defn: The state or quality of being grand; vastness; greatness; splendor; magnificence; stateliness; sublimity; dignity; elevation of thought or expression; nobility of action. Nor doth this grandeur and majestic show Of luxury . . . allure mine eye. Milton. Syn. -- Sublimity; majesty; stateliness; augustness; loftiness. See Sublimity. GRANDEVITY Gran*dev"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. grandaevitas.] Defn: Great age; long life. [Obs.] Glanvill. GRANDEVOUS Gran*de"vous, a. Etym: [L. grandaevus; grandig grand+ aevum lifetime, age.] Defn: Of great age; aged; longlived. [R.] Bailey. GRANDFATHER Grand"fa"ther, n. Defn: A father's or mother's father; an ancestor in the next degree above the father or mother in lineal ascent. Grandfather longlegs. (Zoöl.) See Dady longlegs. GRANDFATHERLY Grand"fa"ther*ly, a. Defn: Like a grandfather in age or manner; kind; benignant; indulgent. He was a grandfatherly sort of personage. Hawthorne. GRANDIFIC Gran*dif"ic, a. Etym: [L. grandificus; grandis grand + facere to make.] Defn: Making great. [R.] Bailey. GRANDILOQUENCE Gran*dil"o*quence, n. Defn: The use of lofty words or phrases; bombast; -- usually in a bad sense. The sin of grandiloquence or tall talking. Thackeray, GRANDILOQUENT Gran*dil"o*quent, a. Etym: [L. grandis grand + logui to speak.] Defn: Speaking in a lofty style; pompous; bombastic. GRANDILOQUOUS Gran*dil"o*quous, a. Etym: [L. grandiloquus; grandis grand + loqui to apeak.] Defn: Grandiloquent. GRANDINOUS Gran"di*nous, a. Etym: [L. grandinosus, fr. qrando, grandinis, hail.] Defn: Consisting of hail; abounding in hail. [R.] Bailey. GRANDIOSE Gran"di*ose", a. Etym: [F. grandiose, It. grandioso. See Grand.] 1. Impressive or elevating in effect; vimposing; splendid; striking; -- in a good sense. The tone of the parts was to be perpetually kept down in order not to impair the grandiose effect of the whole. M. Arnold. The grandiose red tulips which grow wild. C. Kingsley. 2. Characterized by affectation of grandeur or splendor; flaunting; turgid; bombastic; -- in a bad sense; as, a grandiose style. GRANDIOSITY Gran"di*os"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. grandiosité, It. grandiosità.] Defn: The state or quality of being grandiose, GRANDITY Grand"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. granditas: cf. OF. granité. See Grand.] Defn: Grandness. [Obs.] Camden. GRANDLY Grand"ly, adv. Defn: In a grand manner. GRANDMA; GRANDMAMMA Grand"ma", Grand"mam*ma", n. Defn: A grand mother. GRAND MERCY Grand" mer"cy. Defn: See Gramercy. [Obs.] GRANDMOTHER Grand"moth"er, n. Defn: The mother of one's father or mother. GRANDMOTHERLY Grand"moth"er*ly, a. Defn: Like a grandmother in age or manner; kind; indulgent. GRANDNEPHEW Grand"neph"ew, n. Defn: The grandson of one's brother or sister. GRANDNESS Grand"ness, n. Defn: Grandeur. Wollaston. GRANDNIECE Grand"niece", n. Defn: The granddaughter of one's brother or sister. GRANDPA; GRANDPAPA Grand"pa", Grand"pa*pa", n. Defn: A grandfather. GRANDSIRE Grand"sire", n. Etym: [OF. grantsire. See Grand, and Sire.] Defn: Specifically, a grandfather; more generally, any ancestor. GRANDSON Grand"son", n. Defn: A son's or daughter's son. GRANDUNCLE Grand"un"cle, n. Etym: [Cf. F. grand-oncle.] Defn: father's or mother's uncle. GRANE Grane, v. & n. Defn: See Groan. [Obs.] GRANGE Grange, n. Etym: [F. grange barn, LL. granea, from L. granum grain. See Grain a kernel.] 1. A building for storing grain; a granary. [Obs.] Milton. 2. A farmhouse, with the barns and other buildings for farming purposes. And eke an officer out for to ride, To see her granges and her bernes wide. Chaucer. Nor burnt the grange, nor bussed the milking maid. Tennyson. 3. A farmhouse of a monastery, where the rents and tithes, paid in grain, were deposited. [Obs.] 4. A farm; generally, a farm with a house at a distance from neighbors. 5. An association of farmers, designed to further their interests, aud particularly to bring producers