[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

as, relics of youthful days or friendships. The pearis were split; Some lost, some stolen, some as relics kept. Tennyson. RELICLY Rel"ic*ly, adv. Defn: In the manner of relics. [Obs.] RELICT Rel"ict (-kt), n. Etym: [L. relicta, fr. of relictus, p. p. of relinquere to leave behind. See Relinquish.] Defn: A woman whose husband is dead; a widow. Eli dying without issue, Jacob was obbliged by law to marry his relict, and so to raise up seed to his brother Eli. South. RELICTED Re*lict"ed (r-lkt"d), a. Etym: [L. relictus, p. p.] (Law) Defn: Left uncovered, as land by recession of water. Bouvier. RELICTION Re*lic"tion (r-lk"shn), n. Etym: [L. relictio a leaving behind.] (Law) Defn: A leaving dry; a recession of the sea or other water, leaving dry land; land left uncovered by such recession. Burrill. RELIEF Re*lief" (r-lf"), n. Etym: [OE. relef, F. relief, properly, a lifting up, a standing out. See Relieve, and cf. Basrelief, Rilievi.] 1. The act of relieving, or the state of being relieved; the removal, or partial removal, of any evil, or of anything oppressive or burdensome, by which some ease is obtained; succor; alleviation; comfort; ease; redress. He seec the dire contagion spread so fast, That, where it seizes, all relief is vain. Dryden. 2. Release from a post, or from the performance of duty, by the intervention of others, by discharge, or by relay; as, a relief of a sentry. For this relief much thanks; ;tis bitter cold. Shak. 3. That which removes or lessenc evil, pain, discomfort, uneasiness, etc.; that which gives succor, aid, or comfort; also, the person who relieves from performance of duty by taking the place of another; a relay. 4. (Feudal Law) Defn: A fine or composition which the heir of a deceased tenant paid to the lord for the privilege of taking up the estate, which, on strict feudal principles, had lapsed or fallen to the lord on the death of the tenant. 5. (Sculp. & Arch.) Defn: The projection of a figure above the ground or plane on wwhich it is formed. Note: Relief is of three kinds, namely, high relief (altorilievo), low relief, (basso-rilievo), and demirelief (mezzo-rilievo). See these terms in the Vocabulary. 6. (Paint.) Defn: The appearance of projection given by shading, shadow, etc., to any figure. 7. (Fort.) Defn: The height to which works are raised above the bottom of the ditch. Wilhelm. 8. (Physical Geog.) Defn: The elevations and surface undulations of a country. Guyot. Relief valve, a valve arranged for relieving pressure of steam, gas, or liquid; an escape valve. Syn. -- Alleviation; mitigation; aid; help; succor; assistance; remedy; redress; indemnification. RELIEFFUL Re*lief"ful (r-lf"fl), a. Defn: Giving relief. [Obs.] RELIEFLESS Re*lief"less, a. Defn: Destitute of relief; also, remediless. RELIER Re*li"er (r-l"r), n. Etym: [From Rely.] Defn: One who relies. RELIEVABLE Re*liev"a*ble (r-lv"-b'l), a. Defn: Capable of being relieved; fitted to recieve relief. Sir M. Hale. RELIEVE Re*lieve" (r-lv"), v. t. [imp. & p. p. Relieved (-lvd"); p. pr. & vb. n. Relieving.] Etym: [OE. releven, F. relever to raise again, discharge, relieve, fr. L. relevare to lift up, raise, make light, relieve; pref. re- re- + levare to raise, fr. levis light. See Levity, and cf. Relevant, Relief.] 1. To lift up; to raise again, as one who has fallen; to cause to rise. [Obs.] Piers Plowman. 2. To cause to seem to rise; to put in relief; to give prominence or conspicuousness to; to Her tall figure relieved against the blue sky; seemed almost of supernatural height. Sir W. Scott. 3. To raise up something in; to introduce a contrast or variety into; to remove the monotony or sameness of. The poet must . . . sometimes relieve the subject with a moral reflection. Addison. 4. To raise or remove, as anything which depresses, weighs down, or cruches; to render less burdensome or afflicting; to allevate; to- abate; to mitigate; to lessen; as, to relieve pain; to relieve the wants of the poor. 5. To free, wholly or partly, from any burden, trial, evil, distress, or the like; to give ease, comfort, or consolation to; to give aid, help, or succor to; to support, strengthen, or deliver; as, to relieve a besieged town. Now lend assistance and relieve the poor. Dryden. 6. To release from a post, station, or duty; to put another in place of, or to take the place of, in the bearing of any burden, or discharge of any duty. Who hath relieved you Shak. 7. To ease of any imposition, burden, wrong, or oppression, by judicial or legislative interposition, as by the removal of a grievance, by indemnification for losses, or the like; to right. Syn. -- To alleviate; assuage; succor; assist; aid; help; support; substain; ease; mitigate; lighten; diminish; remove; free; remedy; redress; indemnify. RELIEVEMENT Re*lieve"ment (-ment), n. Defn: The act of relieving, or the state of being relieved; relief; release. [Archaic.] RELIEVER Re*liev"er (-r), n. Defn: One who, or that which, relieves. RELIEVING Re*liev"ing, a. Defn: Serving or tending to relieve. Relieving arch (Arch.), a discharging arch. See under Discharge, v. t. -- Relieving tackle. (Naut.) (a) A temporary tackle attached to the tiller of a vessel during gales or an action, in case of accident to the tiller ropes. (b) A strong tackle from a wharf to a careened vessel, to prevent her from going over entirely, and to assist in righting her. Totten. Craig. RELIEVO Re*lie"vo (r-l"v), n. Etym: [It. rilievo.] Defn: See Relief, n., 5. RELIGHT Re*light" (r-lt"), v. t. Defn: To light or kindle anew. RELIGIEUSE; RELIGIEUX Re*li`gi`euse", n. f. Re*li`gi`eux", n. m.Etym: [F.] Defn: A person bound by monastic vows; a nun; a monk. RELIGION Re*li"gion (r-lj"n), n. Etym: [F., from L. religio; cf. religens pious, revering the gods, Gr. Neglect.] 1. The outward act or form by which men indicate their recognition of the existence of a god or of gods having power over their destiny, to whom obedience, service, and honor are due; the feeling or expression of human love, fear, or awe of some superhuman and overruling power, whether by profession of belief, by observance of rites and ceremonies, or by the conduct of life; a system of faith and worship; a manifestation of piety; as, ethical religions; monotheistic religions; natural religion; revealed religion; the religion of the Jews; the religion of idol worshipers. An orderly life so far as others are able to observe us is now and then produced by prudential motives or by dint of habit; but without seriousness there can be no religious principle at the bottom, no course of conduct from religious motives; in a word, there can be no religion. Paley. Religion [was] not, as too often now, used as equivalent for godliness; but . . . it expressed the outer form and embodiment which the inward spirit of a true or a false devotion assumed. Trench. Religions, by which are meant the modes of sdivine worship proper to different tribes, nations, or communities, and based on the belief held in common by the members of them severally . . . There is no living religion without something like a doctrine. On the other hand, a doctrine, however elaborate, does not constitute a religion. C. P. Tiele (Encyc. Brit. ). Religion . . . means the conscious relation between man and God, and the expression of that relation in human conduct. J. Köstlin (Schaff- Herzog Encyc. ) After the most straitest sect of our religion I lived a Pharisce. Acts xxvi. 5. The image of a brute, adorned With gay religions full of pomp and gold. Milton. 2. Specifically, conformity in faith and life to the precepts inculcated in the Bible, respecting the conduct of life and duty toward God and man; the Christian faith and practice. Let us with caution indulge the supposition that morality can be maintained without religion. Washington. Religion will attend you . . . as pleasant and useful companion in every proper place, and every temperate occupation of life. Buckminster. 3. (R.C.CH.) Defn: A monastic or religious order subject to a regulated mode of life; the religious state; as, to enter religion. Trench. A good man was there of religion. Chaucer. 4. Strictness of fidelity in conforming to any practice, as if it were an enjoined rule of conduct. [R.] Those parts of pleading which in ancient times might perhaps be material, but at this time are become only mere styles and forms, are still continued with much religion. Sir M. Hale. Note: Religion, as distinguished from theology, is subjective, designating the feelings and acts of men which relate to God; while theology is objective, and denotes those ideas which man entertains respecting the God whom he worships, especially his systematized views of God. As distinguished from morality, religion denotes the influences and motives to human duty which are found in the character and will of God, while morality describes the duties to man, to which true religion always influences. As distinguished from piety, religion