[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

kite (Com.), to raise money on commercial notes. [Cant or Slang] FLY Fly, n.; pl. Flies. Etym: [OE. flie, flege, AS. flge, fleóge, fr. fleógan to fly; akin to D. vlieg, OHG. flioga, G. fliege, Icel. & Sw. fluga, Dan. flue. Fly, v. i.] 1. (Zoöl.) (a) Any winged insect; esp., one with transparent wings; as, the Spanish fly; firefly; gall fly; dragon fly. (b) Any dipterous insect; as, the house fly; flesh fly; black fly. See Diptera, and Illust. in Append. 2. A hook dressed in imitation of a fly, -- used for fishing. "The fur-wrought fly." Gay. 3. A familiar spirit; a witch's attendant. [Obs.] A trifling fly, none of your great familiars. B. Jonson. 4. A parasite. [Obs.] Massinger. 5. A kind of light carriage for rapid transit, plying for hire and usually drawn by one horse. [Eng.] 6. The length of an extended flag from its staff; sometimes, the length from the "union" to the extreme end. 7. The part of a vane pointing the direction from which the wind blows. 8. (Naut.) Defn: That part of a compass on which the points are marked; the compass card. Totten. 9. (Mech.) (a) Two or more vanes set on a revolving axis, to act as a fanner, or to equalize or impede the motion of machinery by the resistance of the air, as in the striking part of a clock. (b) A heavy wheel, or cross arms with weights at the ends on a revolving axis, to regulate or equalize the motion of machinery by means of its inertia, where the power communicated, or the resistance to be overcome, is variable, as in the steam engine or the coining press. See Fly wheel (below). 10. (Knitting Machine) Defn: The piece hinged to the needle, which holds the engaged loop in position while the needle is penetrating another loop; a latch. Knight. 11. The pair of arms revolving around the bobbin, in a spinning wheel or spinning frame, to twist the yarn. 12. (Weaving) Defn: A shuttle driven through the shed by a blow or jerk. Knight. 13. (a) Formerly, the person who took the printed sheets from the press. (b) A vibrating frame with fingers, attached to a power to a power printing press for doing the same work. 14. The outer canvas of a tent with double top, usually drawn over the ridgepole, but so extended as to touch the roof of the tent at no other place. 15. One of the upper screens of a stage in a theater. 16. The fore flap of a bootee; also, a lap on trousers, overcoats, etc., to conceal a row of buttons. 17. (Baseball) Defn: A batted ball that flies to a considerable distance, usually high in the air; also, the flight of a ball so struck; as, it was caught on the fly. Black fly, Cheese fly, Dragon fly, etc. See under Black, Cheese, etc. -- Fly agaric (Bot.), a mushroom (Agaricus muscarius), having a narcotic juice which, in sufficient quantities, is poisonous. -- Fly block (Naut.), a pulley whose position shifts to suit the working of the tackle with which it is connected; -- used in the hoisting tackle of yards. -- Fly board (Printing Press), the board on which printed sheets are deposited by the fly. -- Fly book, a case in the form of a book for anglers' flies. Kingsley. -- Fly cap, a cap with wings, formerly worn by women. -- Fly drill, a drill having a reciprocating motion controlled by a fly wheel, the driving power being applied by the hand through a cord winding in reverse directions upon the spindle as it rotates backward and forward. Knight. -- Fly fishing, the act or art of angling with a bait of natural or artificial flies. Walton. -- Fly flap, an implement for killing flies. -- Fly governor, a governor for regulating the speed of an engine, etc., by the resistance of vanes revolving in the air. -- Fly honeysuckle (Bot.), a plant of the honeysuckle genus (Lonicera), having a bushy stem and the flowers in pairs, as L. ciliata and L. Xylosteum. -- Fly hook, a fishhook supplied with an artificial fly. -- Fly leaf, an unprinted leaf at the beginning or end of a book, circular, programme, etc. -- Fly maggot, a maggot bred from the egg of a fly. Ray. -- Fly net, a screen to exclude insects. -- Fly nut (Mach.), a nut with wings; a thumb nut; a finger nut. -- Fly orchis (Bot.), a plant (Ophrys muscifera), whose flowers resemble flies. -- Fly paper, poisoned or sticky paper for killing flies that feed upon or are entangled by it. -- Fly powder, an arsenical powder used to poison flies. -- Fly press, a screw press for punching, embossing, etc., operated by hand and having a heavy fly. -- Fly rail, a bracket which turns out to support the hinged leaf of a table. -- Fly rod, a light fishing rod used in angling with a fly. -- Fly sheet, a small loose advertising sheet; a handbill. -- Fly snapper (Zoöl.), an American bird (Phainopepla nitens), allied to the chatterers and shrikes. The male is glossy blue-black; the female brownish gray. -- Fly wheel (Mach.), a heavy wheel attached to machinery to equalize the movement (opposing any sudden acceleration by its inertia and any retardation by its momentum), and to accumulate or give out energy for a variable or intermitting resistance. See Fly, n., 9. -- On the fly (Baseball), still in the air; -- said of a batted ball caught before touching the ground.. FLY Fly, a. Defn: Knowing; wide awake; fully understanding another's meaning. [Slang] Dickens. FLY AMANITA; FLY FUNGUS Fly amanita, Fly fungus. (Bot.) Defn: A poisonous mushroom (Amanita muscaria, syn. Agaricus muscarius), having usually a bright red or yellowish cap covered with irregular white spots. It has a distinct volva at the base, generally an upper ring on the stalk, and white spores. Called also fly agaric, deadly amanita. FLYAWAY Fly"a*way`, a. Defn: Disposed to fly away; flighty; unrestrained; light and free; -- used of both persons and things. -- n. Defn: A flyaway person or thing. "Truth is such a flyaway." Emerson. FLYAWAY flyaway adj. 1. frivolous; -- of people. serious Syn. -- flighty. [WordNet 1.5] 2. Tending to move away from a center, rather than remain in a compact group; -- used of hair or clothing or of small particles of matter. Light objects or particles readily taking a static electric charge may be moved apart by acquisition of a charge, or by approach of a charged object. Such a property is called flyaway. Syn. -- fluttering. [WordNet 1.5] FLYAWAY GRASS Flyaway grass. (Bot.) Defn: The hair grass (Agrostis scabra). So called from its light panicle, which is blown to great distances by the wind. FLYBANE Fly"bane`, n. (Bot.) Defn: A kind of catchfly of the genus Silene; also, a poisonous mushroom (Agaricus muscarius); fly agaric. FLY-BITTEN Fly"-bit`ten, a. Defn: Marked by, or as if by, the bite of flies. Shak. FLYBLOW Fly"blow`, v. t. Defn: To deposit eggs upon, as a flesh fly does on meat; to cause to be maggoty; hence, to taint or contaminate, as if with flyblows. Bp. Srillingfleet. FLYBLOW Fly"blow`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: One of the eggs or young larvæ deposited by a flesh fly, or blowfly. FLYBLOWN Fly"blown`, a. Defn: Tainted or contaminated with flyblows; damaged; foul. Wherever flyblown reputations were assembled. Thackeray. FLYBOAT Fly"boat`, n. Etym: [Fly + boat: cf. D. vlieboot.] 1. (Naut.) Defn: A large Dutch coasting vessel. Captain George Weymouth made a voyage of discovery to the northwest with two flyboats. Purchas. 2. A kind of passenger boat formerly used on canals. FLY-CASE Fly"-case`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: The covering of an insect, esp. the elytra of beetles. FLYCATCHER Fly"catch`er, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: One of numerous species of birds that feed upon insects, which they take on the wing. Note: The true flycatchers of the Old World are Oscines, and belong to the family Muscicapidæ, as the spotted flycatcher (Muscicapa grisola). The American flycatchers, or tyrant flycatchers, are Clamatores, and belong to the family Tyrannidæ, as the kingbird, pewee, crested flycatcher (Myiarchus crinitus), and the vermilion flycatcher or churinche (Pyrocephalus rubineus). Certain American flycatching warblers of the family Sylvicolidæ are also called flycatchers, as the Canadian flycatcher (Sylvania Canadensis), and the hooded flycatcher (S. mitrata). See Tyrant flycatcher. FLY-CATCHING Fly"-catch`ing, a. (Zoöl.) Defn: Having the habit of catching insects on the wing. FLYER Fly"er, n. Etym: [See Flier.] 1. One that uses wings. 2. The fly of a flag: See Fly, n., 6. 3. Anything that is scattered abroad in great numbers as a theatrical programme, an advertising leaf, etc. 4. (Arch.) Defn: One in a flight of steps which are parallel to each other(as in ordinary stairs), as distinguished from a winder. 5. The pair of arms attached to the spindle of a spinning frame, over which the thread passes to the