[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

kept up from the whole circle of batteries on the devoted towm. Prescott. 2. Fig.; A loud noise like a cannonade; a booming. Blue Walden rolls its cannonade. Ewerson. CANNONADE Can`non*ade", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Cannonade; p. pr. & vb. n. Cannonading.] Defn: To attack with heavy artillery; to batter with cannon shot. CANNONADE Can`non*ade", v. i. Defn: To discharge cannon; as, the army cannonaded all day. CANNON BONE Can"non bone. (Anat.) Defn: See Canon Bone. CANNONED Can"noned (, a. Defn: Furnished with cannon. [Poetic] "Gilbralter's cannoned steep." M. Arnold. CANNONEER; CANNONIER Can`non*eer", Can`non*ier", n. Etym: [F. canonnier.] Defn: A man who manages, or fires, cannon. CANNONERING Can`non*er"ing, n. Defn: The use of cannon. Burke. CANNONRY Can"non*ry, n. Defn: Cannon, collectively; artillery. The ringing of bells and roaring of cannonry proclaimed his course through the country. W. Irving. CANNOT Can"not. Etym: [Can to be able _ -not.] Defn: Am, is, or are, not able; -- written either as one word or two. CANNULA Can"nu*la, n. Etym: [L. cannula a small tube of dim. of canna a reed, tube.] (Surg.) Defn: A small tube of metal, wood, or India rubber, used for various purposes, esp. for injecting or withdrawing fluids. It is usually associated with a trocar. [Written also canula.] CANNULAR Can"nu*lar, a. Defn: Having the form of a tube; tubular. [Written also canular.] CANNULATED Can"nu*la`ted, a. Defn: Hollow; affording a passage through its interior length for wire, thread, etc.; as, a cannulated (suture) needle. [Written also canulated.] CANNY; CANNEI Can"ny, Can"nei, a. Etym: [Cf. Icel. kenn skilled, learned, or E. canny. Cf. Kenn.] [North of Eng. & Scot.] 1. Artful; cunning; shrewd; wary. 2. Skillful; knowing; capable. Sir W. Scott. 3. Cautious; prudent; safe.. Ramsay. 4. Having pleasing of useful qualities; gentle. Burns. 5. Reputed to have magical powers. Sir W. Scott. No canny, not safe, not fortunate; unpropitious. [Scot.] CANOE Ca*noe", n.; pl. Canoes. Etym: [Sp. canoa, fr. Caribbean canáoa.] 1. A boat used by rude nations, formed of trunk of a tree, excavated, by cutting of burning, into a suitable shape. It is propelled by a paddle or paddles, or sometimes by sail, and has no rudder. Others devised the boat of one tree, called the canoe. Raleigh. 2. A boat made of bark or skins, used by savages. A birch canoe, with paddles, rising, falling, on the water. Longfellow. 3. A light pleasure boat, especially designed for use by one who goes alone upon long excursions, including portage. It it propelled by a paddle, or by a small sail attached to a temporary mast. CANOE Ca*noe", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Canoed p. pr. & vb. n. Canoeing (.] Defn: To manage a canoe, or voyage in a canoe. CANOEING Ca*noe"ing n. Defn: The act or art of using a canoe. CANOEIST Ca*noe"ist, n. Defn: A canoeman. CANOEMAN Ca*noe"man, n.; pl. Canoemen. Defn: One who uses a canoe; one who travels in a canoe. Cabins and clearing greeted the eye of the passing canoeman. Parkman. CANON Can"on, n. Etym: [OE. canon, canoun, AS. canon rule (cf. F. canon, LL. canon, and, for sense 7, F. chanoine, LL. canonicus), fr. L. canon a measuring line, rule, model, fr. Gr. Cane, and cf. Canonical.] 1. A law or rule. Or that the Everlasting had not fixed His canon 'gainst self- slaughter. Shak. 2. (Eccl.) Defn: A law, or rule of doctrine or discipline, enacted by a council and confirmed by the pope or the sovereign; a decision, regulation, code, or constitution made by ecclesiastical authority. Various canons which were made in councils held in the second centry. Hock. 3. The collection of books received as genuine Holy Scriptures, called the sacred canon, or general rule of moral and religious duty, given by inspiration; the Bible; also, any one of the canonical Scriptures. See Canonical books, under Canonical, a. 4. In monasteries, a book containing the rules of a religious order. 5. A catalogue of saints sckowledged and canonized in the Roman Catholic Church. 6. A member of a cathedral chapter; a person who possesses a prebend in a cathedral or collegiate church. 7. (Mus.) Defn: A musical composition in which the voice begin one after another, at regular intervals, succesively taking up the same subject. It either winds up with a coda (tailpiece), or, as each voice finishes, commences anew, thus forming a perpetual fugue or round. It is the strictest form of imitation. See Imitation. 8. (Print.) Defn: The largest size of type having a specific name; -- so called from having been used for printing the canons of the church. 9. The part of a bell by which it is suspended; -- called also ear and shank. Note: [See Illust. of Bell.] Knight. 10. (Billiards) Defn: See Carom. Apostolical canons. See under Apostolical. -- Augustinian canons, Black canons. See under Augustinian. -- Canon capitular, Canon residentiary, a resident member of a cathedral chapter (during a part or the whole of the year). -- Canon law. See under Law. -- Canon of the Mass (R. C. Ch.), that part of the mass, following the Sanctus, which never changes. -- Honorary canon, a canon who neither lived in a monastery, nor kept the canonical hours. -- Minor canon (Ch. of Eng.), one who has been admitted to a chapter, but has not yet received a prebend. -- Regular canon (R. C. Ch.), one who lived in a conventual community and follower the rule of St. Austin; a Black canon. -- Secular canon (R. C. Ch.), one who did not live in a monastery, but kept the hours. CANON; CANYON Ca*ñon", n. Etym: [Sp., a tube or hollow, fr. caña reed, fr. L. canna. See Cane.] Defn: A deep gorge, ravine, or gulch, between high and steep banks, worn by water courses. [Mexico & Western U. S.] CANON BIT Can"on bit`. Etym: [F. canon, fr. L. canon a rule.] Defn: That part of a bit which is put in a horse's mouth. CANON BONE Can"on bone`. Etym: [F. canon, fr. L. canon a rule. See canon.] (Anat.) Defn: The shank bone, or great bone above the fetlock, in the fore and hind legs of the horse and allied animals, corresponding to the middle metacarpal or metatarsal bone of most mammals. See Horse. CANONESS Can"on*ess, n. Etym: [Cf. LL. canonissa.] Defn: A woman who holds a canonry in a conventual chapter. Regular canoness, one bound by the poverty, and observing a strict rule of life. -- Secular canoness, one allowed to hold private property, and bound only by vows of chastity and obedience so long as she chose to remain in the chapter. CANONIC; CANNONICAL Ca*non"ic, Can*non"ic*al, a Etym: [L. cannonicus, LL. canonicalis, fr. L. canon: cf. F. canonique. See canon.] Defn: Of or pertaining to a canon; established by, or according to a , canon or canons. "The oath of canonical obedience." Hallam. Canonical books, or Canonical Scriptures, those books which are declared by the canons of the church to be of divine inspiration; -- called collectively the canon. The Roman Catolic Church holds as canonical several books which Protestants reject as apocryphal. -- Canonical epistles, an appellation given to the epistles called also general or catholic. See Catholic epistles, under Canholic. -- Canonical form (Math.), the simples or most symmetrical form to which all functions of the same class can be reduced without lose of generality. -- Canonical hours, certain stated times of the day, fixed by ecclesiastical laws, and appropriated to the offices of prayer and devotion; also, certain portions of the Breviary, to be used at stated hours of the day. In England, this name is also given to the hours from 8 a. m. to 3 p. m. (formerly 8 a. m. to 12 m.) before and after which marriage can not be legally performed in any parish church. -- Canonical letters, letters of several kinds, formerly given by a dishop to traveling clergymam or laymen, to show that they were entitled to receive the cammunion, and to distinguish them from heretics. -- Canonical life, the method or rule of living prescribed by the ancient cleargy who lived in community; a course of living prescribed for the clergy, less rigid that the monastic, and more restrained that the secular. -- Canonical obedience, submission to the canons of a canons of a church, especially the submission of the inferior cleargy to their bishops, and of other religious orders to their supriors. -- Canonical punishments, such as the church may inflict, as excommunication, degradation, penance, etc. -- Canonical sins (Anc. Church.), those for which capital punishment or puplic penance decreed by the canon was inflicted, as idolatry, murder, adultery, heresy. CANONICALLY Ca*non"ic*al*ly, adv. In a canonical manner Defn: ; according to the canons. CANONICALNESS Ca*non"ic*al*ness, n. Defn: The quality of being canonical; canonicity. Bp. Burnet. CANONICALS Ca*non"ic*als, n. pl. Defn: The dress prescribed by canon to be worn by a clergyman when oficiating. Sometimes, any distinctive professional dress. Full canonicals, the complete costume of an