[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

as asparagus. Barton. TURK Turk, n. Etym: [Per. Turk; probably of Tartar origin: cf. F. Turc.] 1. A member of any of numerous Tartar tribes of Central Asia, etc.; esp., one of the dominant race in Turkey. 2. A native or inhabitant of Turkey. 3. A Mohammedan; esp., one living in Turkey. It is no good reason for a man's religion that he was born and brought up in it; for then a Turk would have as much reason to be a Turk as a Christian to be a Christian. Chillingworth. 4. (Zoöl.) Defn: The plum weevil. See Curculio, and Plum weevil, under Plum. Turk's cap. (Bot.) (a) Turk's-cap lily. See under Lily. (b) A tulip. (c) A plant of the genus Melocactus; Turk's head. See Melon cactus, under Melon. -- Turk's head. (a) (Naut.) A knot of turbanlike form worked on a rope with a piece of small line. R. H. Dana, Jr. (b) (Bot.) See Turk's cap (c) above. -- Turk's turban (Bot.), a plant of the genus Ranunculus; crowfoot. TURKEIS Tur"keis, a. Etym: [Cf. Turquoise.] Defn: Turkish. [Obs.] Chaucer. TURKEY Tur"key, n. Etym: [Cf. 2d Turkey.] Defn: An empire in the southeast of Europe and southwest of Asia. Turkey carpet, a superior kind of carpet made in Asia Minor and adjoining countries, having a deep pile and composed of pure wool with a weft of different material. It is distinguishable by its coloring and patterns from similar carpets made in India and elsewhere. -- Turkey oak. (Bot.) See Cerris. -- Turkey red. (a) A brilliant red imparted by madder to cottons, calicoes, etc., the fiber of which has been prepared previously with oil or other fatty matter. (b) Cloth dyed with this red. -- Turkey sponge. (Zoöl.) See Toilet sponge, under Sponge. -- Turkey stone, a kind of oilstone from Turkey; novaculite; -- called also Turkey oilstone. TURKEY Tur"key, n.; pl. Turkeys. Etym: [So called because it was formerly erroneously believed that it came originally from Turkey: cf. F. Turquie Turkey. See Turk.] (Zoöl.) Defn: Any large American gallinaceous bird belonging to the genus Meleagris, especially the North American wild turkey (Meleagris gallopavo), and the domestic turkey, which was probably derived from the Mexican wild turkey, but had been domesticated by the Indians long before the discovery of America. Note: The Mexican wild turkey is now considered a variety of the northern species (var. Mexicana). Its tall feathers and coverts are tipped with white instead of brownish chestnut, and its flesh is white. The Central American, or ocellated, turkey (M. ocellata) is more elegantly colored than the common species. See under Ocellated. The Australian, or native, turkey is a bustard (Choriotis australis). See under Native. Turkey beard (Bot.), a name of certain American perennial liliaceous herbs of the genus Xerophyllum. They have a dense tuft of hard, narrowly linear radical leaves, and a long raceme of small whitish flowers. Also called turkey's beard. -- Turkey berry (Bot.), a West Indian name for the fruit of certain kinds of nightshade (Solanum mammosum, and S. torvum). -- Turkey bird (Zoöl.), the wryneck. So called because it erects and ruffles the feathers of its neck when disturbed. [Prov. Eng.] -- Turkey buzzard (Zoöl.), a black or nearly black buzzard (Cathartes aura), abundant in the Southern United States. It is so called because its naked and warty head and neck resemble those of a turkey. Its is noted for its high and graceful flight. Called also turkey vulture. -- Turkey cock (Zoöl.), a male turkey. -- Turkey hen (Zoöl.), a female turkey. -- Turkey pout (Zoöl.), a young turkey. [R.] -- Turkey vulture (Zoöl.), the turkey buzzard. TURKEYS Tur"keys, a. Defn: Turkish. [Obs.] Chaucer. TURKEY-TROT Tur"key-trot`, n. Defn: An eccentric ragtime dance, danced with the feet well apart and with a characteristic rise on the ball of the foot, followed by a drop upon the heel. The original form, owning to the positions assumed by the dancers, is offensively suggestive. Similar dances are the bunny hug and grizzly bear, so called in allusion to the movements and the positions assumed by the partners in dancing. TURKIC Turk"ic, a. Defn: Turkish. TURKIS Tur"kis, n. (Min.) Defn: Turquois. [Obs.] TURKISH Turk"ish, a. Defn: Of or pertaining to Turkey or the Turks. -- n. Defn: The language spoken by Turks, esp. that of the people of Turkey. -- Turk"ish*ly, adv. -- Turk"ish*ness, n. TURKISM Turk"ism, n. Defn: Same as Turcism. TURKLE Tur"kle, n. Defn: A turtle. [Obs. or Illiterate] TURKO Turk"o, n.; pl. Turkos. Etym: [F. turco.] Defn: One of a body of native Algerian tirailleurs in the French army, dressed as a Turk. [Written also Turco.] TURKO-IRANIAN Tur`ko-I*ra"ni*an, a. (Ethnol.) Defn: Designating, or pert. to, a mixed racial type including the Afghans, and characterized chiefly by stature above mean, fair complexion, dark, or sometimes gray, eyes, brachycephaly, and very long, prominent, and moderately narrow nose. TURKO-IRANIAN Tur`ko-I*ra"ni*an, n. Defn: A member of any race of the Turko-Iranian type. TURKOIS Tur*kois", n. & a. Defn: Turquoise. TURKOMAN Tur"ko*man, n.; pl. Turkomans (. Defn: Same as Turcoman. TURK'S-HEAD Turk's"-head`, n. 1. (Naut.) A knot of turbanlike form worked on a rope with a piece of small line. 2. (a) The melon cactus. [West Indies] (b) Any of several species of Echinocactus. [California] 3. A long-handled, round-headed broom for sweeping ceilings, etc. [Colloq. or Dial.] TURLUPIN Tur"lu*pin, n. Etym: [F.] (Fr. Eccl. Hist.) Defn: One of the precursors of the Reformation; -- a nickname corresponding to Lollard, etc. TURM Turm, n. Etym: [L. turma.] Defn: A troop; a company. [Obs. or Poetic] Legions and cohorts, turms of horse and wings. Milton. TURMALINE Tur"ma*line, n. (Min.) Defn: See Tourmaline. TURMERIC Tur"mer*ic, n. Etym: [F. terre-mérite, NL. terramerita, turmerica; apparently meaning, excellent earth, but perhaps a corruption of Ar. kurkum. Cf. Curcuma.] 1. (Bot.) Defn: An East Indian plant of the genus Curcuma, of the Ginger family. 2. The root or rootstock of the Curcuma longa. It is externally grayish, but internally of a deep, lively yellow or saffron color, and has a slight aromatic smell, and a bitterish, slightly acrid taste. It is used for a dye, a medicine, a condiment, and a chemical test. TURMERIC Tur"mer*ic, a. (Chem.) Defn: Of or pertaining to turmeric; resembling, or obtained from, turmeric; specif., designating an acid obtained by the oxidation of turmerol. Turmeric paper (Chem.), paper impregnated with turmeric and used as a test for alkaline substances, by which it is changed from yellow to brown. -- Turmeric root. (Bot.) (a) Bloodroot. (b) Orangeroot. TURMEROL Tur"mer*ol, n. Etym: [Turmeric + L. oleum oil.] (Chem.) Defn: Turmeric oil, a brownish yellow, oily substance extracted from turmeric by ligroin. TURMOIL Tur"moil, n. Etym: [Of uncertain origin; perhaps fr. OF. tremouille the hopper of a mill, trembler to tremble (cf. E. tremble); influenced by E. turn and moil.] Defn: Harassing labor; trouble; molestation by tumult; disturbance; worrying confusion. And there I'll rest, as after much turmoil, A blessed soul doth in Elysium. Shak. TURMOIL Tur*moil", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Turmoiled; p. pr. & vb. n. Turmoiling.] Defn: To harass with commotion; to disquiet; to worry. [Obs.] It is her fatal misfortune . . . to be miserably tossed and turmoiled with these storms of affliction. Spenser. TURMOIL Tur*moil", v. i. Defn: To be disquieted or confused; to be in commotion. [Obs.] Milton. TURN Turn, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Turned; p. pr. & vb. n. Turning.] Etym: [OE. turnen, tournen, OF. tourner, torner, turner, F. tourner, LL. tornare, fr. L. tornare to turn in a lathe, to rounds off, fr. tornus a lathe, Gr. throw. See Throw, and cf. Attorney, Return, Tornado, Tour, Tournament.] 1. To cause to move upon a center, or as if upon a center; to give circular motion to; to cause to revolve; to cause to move round, either partially, wholly, or repeatedly; to make to change position so as to present other sides in given directions; to make to face otherwise; as, to turn a wheel or a spindle; to turn the body or the head. Turn the adamantine spindle round. Milton. The monarch turns him to his royal guest. Pope. 2. To cause to present a different side uppermost or outmost; to make the upper side the lower, or the inside to be the outside of; to reverse the position of; as, to turn a box or a board; to turn a coat. 3. To give another direction, tendency, or inclination to; to direct otherwise; to deflect; to incline differently; -- used both literally and figuratively; as, to turn the eyes to the heavens; to turn a horse from the road, or a ship from her course; to turn the attention to or from something. "Expert when to advance, or stand, or, turn the sway of battle." Milton. Thrice I deluded her, and turned to sport Her importunity. Milton. My thoughts are turned on peace. Addison. 4. To change from a given use or office; to divert, as to another purpose or end;