[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

before her Shak. Boy, blow the pipe until the bubble rise, Then cast it off to float upon the skies. Parnell. 4. To clear of contents by forcing air through; as, to blow an egg; to blow one's nose. 5. To burst, shatter, or destroy by an explosion; -- usually with up, down, open, or similar adverb; as, to blow up a building. 6. To spread by report; to publish; to disclose. Through the court his courtesy was blown. Dryden. His language does his knowledge blow. Whiting. 7. To form by inflation; to swell by injecting air; as, to blow bubbles; to blow glass. 8. To inflate, as with pride; to puff up. Look how imagination blows him. Shak. 9. To put out of breath; to cause to blow from fatigue; as, to blow a horse. Sir W. Scott. 10. To deposit eggs or larvæ upon, or in (meat, etc.). To suffer The flesh fly blow my mouth. Shak. To blow great guns, to blow furiously and with roaring blasts; -- said of the wind at sea or along the coast. -- To blow off, to empty (a boiler) of water through the blow-off pipe, while under steam pressure; also, to eject (steam, water, sediment, etc.) from a boiler. -- To blow one's own trumpet, to vaunt one's own exploits, or sound one's own praises. -- To blow out, to extinguish by a current of air, as a candle. -- To blow up. (a) To fill with air; to swell; as, to blow up a bladder or bubble. (b) To inflate, as with pride, self-conceit, etc.; to puff up; as, to blow one up with flattery. "Blown up with high conceits engendering pride." Milton. (c) To excite; as, to blow up a contention.(d) To burst, to raise into the air, or to scatter, by an explosion; as, to blow up a fort. (e) To scold violently; as, to blow up a person for some offense. [Colloq.] I have blown him up well -- nobody can say I wink at what he does. G. Eliot. To blow upon. (a) To blast; to taint; to bring into discredit; to render stale, unsavory, or worthless. (b) To inform against. [Colloq.] How far the very custom of hearing anything spouted withers and blows upon a fine passage, may be seen in those speeches from [Shakespeare's] Henry V. which are current in the mouths of schoolboys. C. Lamb. A lady's maid whose character had been blown upon. Macaulay. BLOW Blow, n. 1. A blowing, esp., a violent blowing of the wind; a gale; as, a heavy blow came on, and the ship put back to port. 2. The act of forcing air from the mouth, or through or from some instrument; as, to give a hard blow on a whistle or horn; to give the fire a blow with the bellows. 3. The spouting of a whale. 4. (Metal.) Defn: A single heat or operation of the Bessemer converter. Raymond. 5. An egg, or a larva, deposited by a fly on or in flesh, or the act of depositing it. Chapman. BLOWBALL Blow"ball` (, n. Defn: The downy seed head of a dandelion, which children delight to blow away. B. Jonson. BLOWEN; BLOWESS Blow"en, Blow"ess, n. Defn: A prostitute; a courtesan; a strumpet. [Low] Smart. BLOWER Blow"er, n. 1. One who, or that which, blows. 2. (Mech.) Defn: A device for producing a current of air; as: (a) A metal plate temporarily placed before the upper part of a grate or open fire. (b) A machine for producing an artificial blast or current of air by pressure, as for increasing the draft of a furnace, ventilating a building or shaft, cleansing gram, etc. 3. A blowing out or excessive discharge of gas from a hole or fissure in a mine. 4. The whale; -- so called by seamen, from the circumstance of its spouting up a column of water. 5. (Zoöl.) Defn: A small fish of the Atlantic coast (Tetrodon turgidus); the puffer. 6. A braggart, or loud talker. [Slang] Bartlett. BLOWFLY Blow"fly`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: Any species of fly of the genus Musca that deposits its eggs or young larvæ (called flyblows and maggots) upon meat or other animal products. BLOWGUN Blow"gun`, n. Defn: A tube, as of cane or reed, sometimes twelve feet long, through which an arrow or other projectile may be impelled by the force of the breath. It is a weapon much used by certain Indians of America and the West Indies; -- called also blowpipe, and blowtube. See Sumpitan. BLOWHOLE Blow"hole`, n. 1. A cavern in a cliff, at the water level, opening to the air at its farther extremity, so that the waters rush in with each surge and rise in a lofty jet from the extremity. 2. A nostril or spiracle in the top of the head of a whale or other cetacean. Note: There are two spiracles or blowholes in the common whales, but only one in sperm whales, porpoises, etc. 3. A hole in the ice to which whales, seals, etc., come to breathe. 4. (Founding) Defn: An air hole in a casting. BLOWN Blown, p. p. & a. 1. Swollen; inflated; distended; puffed up, as cattle when gorged with green food which develops gas. 2. Stale; worthless. 3. Out of breath; tired; exhausted. "Their horses much blown." Sir W. Scott. 4. Covered with the eggs and larvæ of flies; fly blown. BLOWN Blown, p. p. & a. Defn: Opened; in blossom or having blossomed, as a flower. Shak. BLOW-OFF Blow"-off` (, n. 1. A blowing off steam, water, etc.; -- Also, adj. Defn: as, a blow-off cock or pipe. 2. An outburst of temper or excitement. [Colloq.] BLOW-OUT Blow"-out` (, n. Defn: The cleaning of the flues of a boiler from scale, etc., by a blast of steam. BLOWPIPE Blow"pipe` (, n. 1. A tube for directing a jet of air into a fire or into the flame of a lamp or candle, so as to concentrate the heat on some object. Note: It is called a mouth blowpipe when used with the mouth; but for both chemical and industrial purposes, it is often worked by a bellows or other contrivance. The common mouth blowpipe is a tapering tube with a very small orifice at the end to be inserted in the flame. The oxyhydrogen blowpipe, invented by Dr. Hare in 1801, is an instrument in which oxygen and hydrogen, taken from separate reservoirs, in the proportions of two volumes of hydrogen to one of oxygen, are burned in a jet, under pressure. It gives a heat that will consume the diamond, fuse platinum, and dissipate in vapor, or in gaseous forms, most known substances. 2. A blowgun; a blowtube. Blowpipe analysis (Chem.), analysis by means of the blowpipe. -- Blowpipe reaction (Chem.), the characteristic behavior of a substance subjected to a test by means of the blowpipe. BLOWPOINT Blow"point` (, n. Defn: A child's game. [Obs.] BLOWSE Blowse, n. Defn: See Blowze. BLOWTH Blowth, n. Etym: [From Blow to blossom: cf. Growth.] Defn: A blossoming; a bloom. [Obs. or Archaic] "In the blowth and bud." Sir W. Raleigh. BLOWTUBE Blow"tube`, n. 1. A blowgun. Tylor. 2. A similar instrument, commonly of tin, used by boys for discharging paper wads and other light missiles. 3. (Glassmaking) Defn: A long wrought iron tube, on the end of which the workman gathers a quantity of "metal" (melted glass), and through which he blows to expand or shape it; -- called also blowing tube, and blowpipe. BLOW VALVE Blow" valve` (. (Mach.) Defn: See Snifting valve. BLOWY Blow"y, a. Defn: Windy; as, blowy weather; a blowy upland. BLOWZE Blowze, n. Etym: [Prob. from the same root as blush.] Defn: A ruddy, fat-faced woman; a wench. [Obs.] Shak. BLOWZED Blowzed, a. Defn: Having high color from exposure to the weather; ruddy-faced; blowzy; disordered. Huge women blowzed with health and wind. Tennyson. BLOWZY Blowz"y, a. Defn: Coarse and ruddy-faced; fat and ruddy; high colored; frowzy. BLUB Blub, v. t. & i. Etym: [Cf. Bleb, Blob.] Defn: To swell; to puff out, as with weeping. [Obs.] BLUBBER Blub"ber, n. Etym: [See Blobber, Blob, Bleb.] 1. A bubble. At his mouth a blubber stood of foam. Henryson. 2. The fat of whales and other large sea animals from which oil is obtained. It lies immediately under the skin and over the muscular flesh. 3. (Zoöl.) Defn: A large sea nettle or medusa. BLUBBER Blub"ber, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Blubbered; p. pr. & vb. n. Blubbering.] Defn: To weep noisily, or so as to disfigure the face; to cry in a childish manner. She wept, she blubbered, and she tore her hair. Swift. BLUBBER Blub"ber, v. t. 1. To swell or disfigure (the face) with weeping; to wet with tears. Dear Cloe, how blubbered is that pretty face! Prior. 2. To give vent to (tears) or utter (broken words or cries); -- with forth or out. BLUBBERED Blub"bered, p. p.