[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

letter; as, a black-letter manuscript or book. 2. Given to the study of books in black letter; that is, of old books; out of date. Kemble, a black-letter man! J. Boaden. 3. Of or pertaining to the days in the calendar not marked with red letters as saints' days. Hence: Unlucky; inauspicious. BLACKLIST Black"list`, v. t. Defn: To put in a black list as deserving of suspicion, censure, or punishment; esp. to put in a list of persons stigmatized as insolvent or untrustworthy, -- as tradesmen and employers do for mutual protection; as, to blacklist a workman who has been discharged. See Black list, under Black, a. If you blacklist us, we will boycott you. John Swinton. BLACKLY Black"ly, adv. Defn: In a black manner; darkly, in color; gloomily; threateningly; atrociously. "Deeds so blackly grim and horrid." Feltham. BLACKMAIL Black"mail`, n. Etym: [Black + mail a piece of money.] 1. A certain rate of money, corn, cattle, or other thing, anciently paid, in the north of England and south of Scotland, to certain men who were allied to robbers, or moss troopers, to be by them protected from pillage. Sir W. Scott. 2. Payment of money exacted by means of intimidation; also, extortion of money from a person by threats of public accusation, exposure, or censure. 3. (Eng. Law) Defn: Black rent, or rent paid in corn, flesh, or the lowest coin, a opposed to "white rent", which paid in silver. To levy blackmail, to extort money by threats, as of injury to one's reputation. BLACKMAIL Black"mail`, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Blackmailed; p. pr. & vb. n. Blackmailing.] Defn: To extort money from by exciting fears of injury other than bodily harm, as injury to reputation, distress of mind, etc.; as, to blackmail a merchant by threatening to expose an alleged fraud. [U. S.] BLACKMAILER Black"mail`er, n. Defn: One who extorts, or endeavors to extort, money, by black mailing. BLACKMAILING Black"mail`ing, n. Defn: The act or practice of extorting money by exciting fears of injury other than bodily harm, as injury to reputation. BLACK MONDAY Black" Mon`day. 1. Easter Monday, so called from the severity of that day in 1360, which was so unusual that many of Edward III.'s soldiers, then before Paris, died from the cold. Stow. Then it was not for nothing that may nose fell a bleeding on Black Monday last. Shak. 2. The first Monday after the holidays; -- so called by English schoolboys. Halliwell. BLACK MONK Black" monk`. Defn: A Benedictine monk. BLACKMOOR Black"moor, n. Defn: See Blackamoor. BLACK-MOUTHED Black"-mouthed`, a. Defn: Using foul or scurrilous language; slanderous. BLACKNESS Black"ness, n. Defn: The quality or state of being black; black color; atrociousness or enormity in wickedness. They're darker now than blackness. Donne. BLACKPOLL Black"poll`, n. Etym: [Black + poll head.] (Zoöl.) Defn: A warbler of the United States (Dendroica striata). BLACK PUDDING Black" pud"ding. Defn: A kind of sausage made of blood, suet, etc., thickened with meal. And fat black puddings, -- proper food, For warriors that delight in blood. Hudibras. BLACK ROD Black" Rod`. (a) the usher to the Chapter of the Garter, so called from the black rod which he carries. He is of the king's chamber, and also usher to the House of Lords. [Eng.] (b) An usher in the legislature of British colonies. Cowell. Committed to the custody of the Black Rod. Macaulay. BLACKROOT Black"root`, n. (Bot.) Defn: See Colicroot. BLACKS Blacks, n. pl. 1. The name of a kind of in used in copperplate printing, prepared from the charred husks of the grape, and residue of the wine press. 2. Soot flying in the air. [Eng.] 3. Black garments, etc. See Black, n., 4. BLACKSALTER Black"salt`er, n. Defn: One who,makes crude potash, or black salts. BLACK SALTS Black" salts`. Defn: Crude potash. De Colange. BLACKSMITH Black"smith`, n. Etym: [Black (in allusion to the color of the metal) + smith. Cf. Whitesmith.] 1. A smith who works in iron with a forge, and makes iron utensils, horseshoes, etc. The blacksmith may forge what he pleases. Howell. 2. (Zoöl.) Defn: A fish of the Pacific coast (Chromis, or Heliastes, punctipinnis), of a blackish color. BLACK SNAKE; BLACKSNAKE Black" snake` or Black"snake, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: A snake of a black color, of which two species are common in the United States, the Bascanium constrictor, or racer, sometimes six feet long, and the Scotophis Alleghaniensis, seven or eight feet long. Note: The name is also applied to various other black serpents, as Natrix atra of Jamaica. BLACK SPANISH Black Spanish. Defn: One of an old and well-known Mediterranean breed of domestic fowls with glossy black plumage, blue legs and feet, bright red comb and wattles, and white face. They are remarkable as egg layers. BLACKSTRAP Black"strap`, n. 1. A mixture of spirituous liquor (usually rum) and molasses. No blackstrap to-night; switchel, or ginger pop. Judd. 2. Bad port wine; any commo wine of the Mediterranean; -- so called by sailors. BLACKTAIL Black"tail`, n. Etym: [Black + tail.] 1. (Zoöl.) Defn: A fish; the ruff or pope. 2. (Zoöl.) Defn: The black-tailed deer (Cervus or Cariacus Columbianus) of California and Oregon; also, the mule deer of the Rocky Mountains. See Mule deer. BLACKTHORN Black"thorn`, n. (Bot.) (a) A spreading thorny shrub or small tree (Prunus spinosa), with blackish bark, and bearing little black plums, which are called sloes; the sloe. (b) A species of Cratægus or hawthorn (C. tomentosa). Both are used for hedges. BLACK VOMIT Black" vom"it. (Med.) Defn: A copious vomiting of dark-colored matter; or the substance so discharged; -- one of the most fatal symptoms in yellow fever. BLACK WASH; BLACKWASH Black" wash` or Black"wash, n. 1. (Med.) Defn: A lotion made by mixing calomel and lime water. 2. A wash that blackens, as opposed to whitewash; hence, figuratively, calumny. To remove as far as he can the modern layers of black wash, and let the man himself, fair or foul, be seen. C. Kingsley. BLACKWATER STATE Black"wa`ter State. Defn: Nebraska; -- a nickname alluding to the dark color of the water of its rivers, due to the presence of a black vegetable mold in the soil. BLACKWOOD Black"wood, n. Defn: A name given to several dark-colored timbers. The East Indian black wood is from the tree Dalbergia latifolia. Balfour. BLACKWORK Black"work`, n. Defn: Work wrought by blacksmiths; -- so called in distinction from that wrought by whitesmiths. Knight. BLADDER Blad"der, n. Etym: [OE. bladder, bleddre, AS. bl, bl; akin to Icel. bla, SW. bläddra, Dan. blære, D. blaar, OHG. blatara the bladder in the body of animals, G. blatter blister, bustule; all fr. the same root as AS. blawan, E. blow, to puff. See Blow to puff.] 1. (Anat.) Defn: A bag or sac in animals, which serves as the receptacle of some fluid; as, the urinary bladder; the gall bladder; -- applied especially to the urinary bladder, either within the animal, or when taken out and inflated with air. 2. Any vesicle or blister, especially if filled with air, or a thin, watery fluid. 3. (Bot.) Defn: A distended, membranaceous pericarp. 4. Anything inflated, empty, or unsound. "To swim with bladders of philosophy." Rochester. Bladder nut, or Bladder tree (Bot.), a genus of plants (Staphylea) with bladderlike seed pods. -- Bladder pod (Bot.), a genus of low herbs (Vesicaria) with inflated seed pods. -- Bladdor senna (Bot.), a genus of shrubs (Colutea), with membranaceous, inflated pods. -- Bladder worm (Zoöl.), the larva of any species of tapeworm (Tænia), found in the flesh or other parts of animals. See Measle, Cysticercus. -- Bladder wrack (Bot.), the common black rock weed of the seacoast (Fucus nodosus and F. vesiculosus) -- called also bladder tangle. See Wrack. BLADDER Blad"der, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Bladdered; p. pr. & vb. n. Bladdering.] 1. To swell out like a bladder with air; to inflate. [Obs.] G. Fletcher. 2. To put up in bladders; as, bladdered lard. BLADDERWORT Blad"der*wort`, n. (Bot.) Defn: A genus (Utricularia) of aquatic or marshy plants, which usually bear numerous vesicles in the divisions of the leaves. These serve as traps for minute animals. See Ascidium. BLADDERY Blad"der*y, a. Defn: Having bladders; also, resembling a bladder. BLADE Blade, n. Etym: [OE. blade, blad, AS. blæd leaf; akin to OS., D., Dan., & Sw. blad, Icel. bla, OHG. blat, G. blatt, and perh. to L. folium, Gr. . The root is prob. the same as that of AS. bl, E. blow, to blossom. See Blow to blossom, and cf. Foil leaf of metal.] 1. Properly, the leaf, or flat part of the leaf, of any plant, especially of gramineous plants. The term is sometimes applied to the spire of grasses. The crimson dulse . . . with its waving blade. Percival. First the blade, then ear, after that the full corn in the ear. Mark iv. 28. 2. The cutting part of an instrument; as, the blade of a knife or a sword. 3. The broad part of an oar;