[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

(a) Everything that grows, and bears a green leaf, within the forest; as, to preserve vert and venison is the duty of the verderer. (b) The right or privilege of cutting growing wood. 2. (Her.) Defn: The color green, represented in a drawing or engraving by parallel lines sloping downward toward the right. VERTEBER Ver"te*ber, n. Defn: A vertebra. [Obs.] VERTEBRA Ver"te*bra, n.; pl. Vertebræ. Etym: [L. vertebra, fr. vertere to turn, change. See Verse.] 1. (Anat.) Defn: One of the serial segments of the spinal column. Note: In many fishes the vertebræ are simple cartilaginous disks or short cylinders, but in the higher vertebrates they are composed of many parts, and the vertebræ in different portions of the same column vary very greatly. A well-developed vertebra usually consists of a more or less cylindrical and solid body, or centrum, which is surmounted dorsally by an arch, leaving an opening which forms a part of the canal containing the spinal cord. From this dorsal, or neural, arch spring various processes, or apophyses, which have received special names: a dorsal, or neural, spine, spinous process, or neurapophysis, on the middle of the arch; two anterior and two posterior articular processes, or zygapophyses; and one or two transverse processes on each side. In those vertebræ which bear well- developed ribs, a tubercle near the end of the rib articulates at a tubercular facet on the transverse process (diapophysis), while the end, or head, of the rib articulates at a more ventral capitular facet which is sometimes developed into a second, or ventral, transverse process (parapophysis). In vertebrates with well-developed hind limbs, the spinal column is divided into five regions in each of which the vertebræ are specially designated: those vertebræ in front of, or anterior to, the first vertebra which bears ribs connected with the sternum are cervical; all those which bear ribs and are back of the cervicals are dorsal; the one or more directly supporting the pelvis are sacral and form the sacrum; those between the sacral and dorsal are lumbar; and all those back of the sacral are caudal, or coccygeal. In man there are seven cervical vertebræ, twelve dorsal, five lumbar, five sacral, and usually four, but sometimes five and rarely three, coccygeal. 2. (Zoöl.) Defn: One of the central ossicles in each joint of the arms of an ophiuran. VERTEBRAL Ver"te*bral, a. Etym: [Cf. F. vertébral.] 1. (Anat.) Defn: Of or pertaining to a vertebræ, or the vertebral column; spinal; rachidian. 2. Vertebrate. VERTEBRAL Ver"te*bral, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: A vertebrate. [R.] VERTEBRALLY Ver"te*bral*ly, adv. (Anat.) Defn: At or within a vertebra or vertebræ; -- distinguished from interverterbrally. VERTEBRARTERIAL Ver`te*brar*te"ri*al, a. (Anat.) Defn: Of or pertaining to a vertebræ and an artery; -- said of the foramina in the transverse processes of cervical vertebræ and of the canal which they form for the vertebral artery and vein. VERTEBRATA Ver`te*bra"ta, n. pl. Etym: [NL.] (Zoöl.) Defn: One of the grand divisions of the animal kingdom, comprising all animals that have a backbone composed of bony or cartilaginous vertebræ, together with Amphioxus in which the backbone is represented by a simple undivided notochord. The Vertebrata always have a dorsal, or neural, cavity above the notochord or backbone, and a ventral, or visceral, cavity below it. The subdivisions or classes of Vertebrata are Mammalia, Aves, Reptilia, Amphibia, Pisces, Marsipobranchia, and Leptocardia. VERTEBRATE Ver"te*brate, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: One of the Vertebrata. VERTEBRATE; VERTEBRATED Ver"te*brate, Ver"te*bra`ted, a. Etym: [L. vertebratus.] 1. (Anat.) Defn: Having a backbone, or vertebral column, containing the spinal marrow, as man, quadrupeds, birds, amphibia, and fishes. 2. (Bot.) Defn: Contracted at intervals, so as to resemble the spine in animals. Henslow. 3. (Zoöl.) Defn: Having movable joints resembling vertebræ; -- said of the arms ophiurans. 4. (Zoöl.) Defn: Of or pertaining to the Vertebrata; -- used only in the form vertebrate. VERTEBRE Ver"te*bre, n. (Anat.) Defn: A vertebra. [Obs.] VERTEBRO- Ver"te*bro-. Defn: A combining form used in anatomy to indicate connection with, or relation to, a vertebra, vertebræ, or vertebral column; as in vertebrocostal. VERTEBRO-ILIAC Ver"te*bro-il"i*ac, a. (Anat.) Defn: Iliolumbar. VERTEX Ver"tex, n.; pl. Vertexes, L. Vertices. Etym: [L. vertex, -icis, a whirl, top of the head, top, summit, from vertere to turn. See Verse, and cf. Vortex.] Defn: A turning point; the principal or highest point; top; summit; crown; apex. Specifically: --(a) (Anat.) Defn: The top, or crown, of the head. (b) (Anat.) The zenith, or the point of the heavens directly overhead. (c) (Math.) The point in any figure opposite to, and farthest from, the base; the terminating point of some particular line or lines in a figure or a curve; the top, or the point opposite the base. Note: The principal vertex of a conic section is, in the parabola, the vertex of the axis of the curve: in the ellipse, either extremity of either axis, but usually the left-hand vertex of the transverse axis; in the hyperbola, either vertex, but usually the right-hand vertex of the transverse axis. Vertex of a curve (Math.), the point in which the axis of the curve intersects it. -- Vertex of an angle (Math.), the point in which the sides of the angle meet. -- Vertex of a solid, or of a surface of revolution (Math.), the point in which the axis pierces the surface. VERTICAL Ver"ti*cal, a. Etym: [Cf. F. vertical. See Vertex.] 1. Of or pertaining to the vertex; situated at the vertex, or highest point; directly overhead, or in the zenith; perpendicularly above one. Charity . . . is the vertical top of all religion. Jer. Taylor. 2. Perpendicular to the plane of the horizon; upright; plumb; as, a vertical line. Vertical angle (Astron. & Geod.), an angle measured on a vertical circle, called an angle of elevation, or altitude, when reckoned from the horizon upward, and of depression when downward below the horizon. -- Vertical anthers (Bot.), such anthers as stand erect at the top of the filaments. -- Vertical circle (Astron.), an azimuth circle. See under Azimuth. -- Vertical drill, an drill. See under Upright. -- Vertical fire (Mil.), the fire, as of mortars, at high angles of elevation. -- Vertical leaves (Bot.), leaves which present their edges to the earth and the sky, and their faces to the horizon, as in the Australian species of Eucalyptus. -- Vertical limb, a graduated arc attached to an instrument, as a theodolite, for measuring vertical angles. -- Vertical line. (a) (Dialing) A line perpendicular to the horizon. (b) (Conic Sections) A right line drawn on the vertical plane, and passing through the vertex of the cone. (c) (Surv.) The direction of a plumb line; a line normal to the surface of still water. (d) (Geom., Drawing, etc.) A line parallel to the sides of a page or sheet, in distinction from a horizontal line parallel to the top or bottom. -- Vertical plane. (a) (Conic Sections) A plane passing through the vertex of a cone, and through its axis. (b) (Projections) Any plane which passes through a vertical line. (c) (Persp.) The plane passing through the point of sight, and perpendicular to the ground plane, and also to the picture. -- Vertical sash, a sash sliding up and down. Cf. French sash, under 3d Sash. -- Vertical steam engine, a steam engine having the crank shaft vertically above or below a vertical cylinder. VERTICAL Ver"ti*cal, n. 1. Vertical position; zenith. [R.] 2. (Math.) Defn: A vertical line, plane, or circle. Prime vertical, Prime vertical dial. See under Prime, a. VERTICALITY Ver`ti*cal"i*ty, n. Defn: The quality or state of being vertical; verticalness. [R.] The different points of the verticality. Sir T. Browne. VERTICALLY Ver"ti*cal*ly, adv. Defn: In a vertical manner, position, or direction; perpendicularly; as, to look down vertically; to raise a thing vertically. VERTICALNESS Ver"ti*cal*ness, n. Defn: Quality or state of being vertical. VERTICIL Ver"ti*cil, n. Etym: [L. verticillus, dim. of vertex a whirl: cf. F. verticille. See Vertex.] (Bot.) Defn: A circle either of leaves or flowers about a stem at the same node; a whorl. [Written also verticel.] VERTICILLASTER Ver`ti*cil*las"ter, a. Etym: [NL., fr. L. verticillus a whirl + aster a star.] (Bot.) Defn: A whorl of flowers apparently of one cluster, but composed of two opposite axillary cymes, as in mint. See Illust. of Whorl. VERTICILLATE; VERTICILLATED Ver*tic"il*late, Ver*tic"il*la`ted, a. Etym: [See Verticil.] (Bot. & Zoöl.) Defn: Arranged in a transverse whorl or whorls like the rays of a wheel; as, verticillate leaves of a plant; a verticillate shell. VERTICILLUS Ver`ti*cil"lus, n. Etym: [L., a whirl.] (Bot.) Defn: A whorl; a verticil. VERTICITY Ver*tic"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. verticité. See Vertex.] Defn: The quality or power of turning; revolution; rotation. [R.] Locke. I hardly believe he hath from elder times unknown the verticity of the loadstone. Sir T. Browne. VERTICLE Ver"ti*cle, n. Etym: [L. verticula a joint.] Defn: An axis; hinge; a turning point. E. Waterhouse. VERTIGINATE Ver*tig"i*nate, a. Defn: Turned round; giddy. [R.] Coleridge. VERTIGINOUS Ver*tig"i*nous, a. Etym: [L. vertiginosus, fr. vertigo