[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

of the flower to the instruments of our Savior's crucifixion. Note: The flowers are showy, and the fruit is sometimes highly esteemed (see Granadilla, and Maypop). The roots and leaves are generally more or less noxious, and are used in medicine. The plants are mostly tendril climbers, and are commonest in the warmer parts of America, though a few species are Asiatic or Australian. Passion music (Mus.), originally, music set to the gospel narrative of the passion of our Lord; after the Reformation, a kind of oratorio, with narrative, chorals, airs, and choruses, having for its theme the passion and crucifixion of Christ. -- Passion play, a mystery play, in which the scenes connected with the passion of our Savior are represented dramatically. -- Passion Sunday (Eccl.), the fifth Sunday in Lent, or the second before Easter. -- Passion Week, the last week but one in Lent, or the second week preceding Easter. "The name of Passion week is frequently, but improperly, applied to Holy Week." Shipley. Syn. -- Passion, Feeling, Emotion. When any feeling or emotion completely masters the mind, we call it a passion; as, a passion for music, dress, etc.; especially is anger (when thus extreme) called passion. The mind, in such cases, is considered as having lost its self- control, and become the passive instrument of the feeling in question. PASSION Pas"sion, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Passioned; p.pr & vb. n. Passioning.] Defn: To give a passionate character to. [R.] Keats. PASSION Pas"sion, v. i. Defn: To suffer pain or sorrow; to experience a passion; to be extremely agitated. [Obs.] "Dumbly she passions, frantically she doteth." Shak. PASSIONAL Pas"sion*al, a. Defn: Of or pertaining to passion or the passions; exciting, influenced by, or ministering to, the passions. -- n. Defn: A passionary. PASSIONARY Pas"sion*a*ry, n. Etym: [L. passionarius: cf. F. passionaire.] Defn: A book in which are described the sufferings of saints and martyrs. T. Warton. PASSIONATE Pas"sion*ate, a. Etym: [LL. passionatus: cf. F. passionné.] 1. Capable or susceptible of passion, or of different passions; easily moved, excited or agitated; specifically, easily moved to anger; irascible; quick-tempered; as, a passionate nature. Homer's Achilles is haughty and passionate. Prior. 2. Characterized by passion; expressing passion; ardent in feeling or desire; vehement; warm; as, a passionate friendship. "The passionate Pilgrim." Shak. 3. Suffering; sorrowful. [Obs.] Shak. PASSIONATE Pas"sion*ate, v. i. 1. To affect with passion; to impassion. [Obs.] Great pleasure, mixed with pitiful regard, The godly kind and queen did passionate. Spenser. 2. To express feelingly or sorrowfully. [Obs.] Shak. PASSIONATELY Pas"sion*ate*ly, adv. 1. In a passionate manner; with strong feeling; ardently. Sorrow expresses itself . . . loudly and passionately. South. 2. Angrily; irascibly. Locke. PASSIONATENESS Pas"sion*ate*ness, n. Defn: The state or quality of being passionate. PASSIONIST Pas"sion*ist, n. (R. C. Ch.) Defn: A member of a religious order founded in Italy in 1737, and introduced into the United States in 1852. The members of the order unite the austerities of the Trappists with the activity and zeal of the Jesuits and Lazarists. Called also Barefooted Clerks of the Most Holy Cross. PASSIONLESS Pas"sion*less, a. Defn: Void of passion; without anger or emotion; not easily excited; calm. "Self-contained and passionless." Tennyson. PASSIONTIDE Pas"sion*tide`, n. Etym: [Passion + tide time.] Defn: The last fortnight of Lent. PASSIVE Pas"sive, a. Etym: [L. passivus: cf. F. passif. See Passion.] 1. Not active, but acted upon; suffering or receiving impressions or influences; as, they were passive spectators, not actors in the scene. The passive air Upbore their nimble tread. Milton. The mind is wholly passive in the reception of all its simple ideas. Locke. 2. Receiving or enduring without either active sympathy or active resistance; without emotion or excitement; patient; not opposing; unresisting; as, passive obedience; passive submission. The best virtue, passive fortitude. Massinger. 3. (Chem.) Defn: Inactive; inert; not showing strong affinity; as, red phosphorus is comparatively passive. 4. (Med.) Defn: Designating certain morbid conditions, as hemorrhage or dropsy, characterized by relaxation of the vessels and tissues, with deficient vitality and lack of reaction in the affected tissues. Passive congestion (Med.), congestion due to obstruction to the return of the blood from the affected part. -- Passive iron (Chem.), iron which has been subjected to the action of heat, of strong nitric acid, chlorine, etc. It is then not easily acted upon by acids. -- Passive movement (Med.), a movement of a part, in order to exercise it, made without the assistance of the muscles which ordinarily move the part. -- Passive obedience (as used by writers on government), obedience or submission of the subject or citizen as a duty in all cases to the existing government. -- Passive prayer, among mystic divines, a suspension of the activity of the soul or intellectual faculties, the soul remaining quiet, and yielding only to the impulses of grace. -- Passive verb, or Passive voice (Gram.), a verb, or form of a verb, which expresses the effect of the action of some agent; as, in Latin, doceor, I am taught; in English, she is loved; the picture is admired by all; he is assailed by slander. Syn. -- Inactive; inert; quiescent; unresisting; unopposing; suffering; enduring; submissive; patient. PASSIVE BALLOON; PASSIVE AEROPLANE Pas"sive bal*loon" or a"ër*o*plane. Defn: One unprovided with motive power. PASSIVE FLIGHT Passive flight. Defn: Flight, such as gliding and soaring, accomplished without the use of motive power. PASSIVELY Pas"sive*ly, adv. 1. In a passive manner; inertly; unresistingly. 2. As a passive verb; in the passive voice. PASSIVENESS Pas"sive*ness, n. Defn: The quality or state of being passive; unresisting submission. To be an effect implies passiveness, or the being subject to the power and action of its cause. J. Edwards. PASSIVITY Pas*siv"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. passivité.] 1. Passiveness; -- opposed to activity. Jer. Taylor. 2. (Physics) Defn: The tendency of a body to remain in a given state, either of motion or rest, till disturbed by another body; inertia. Cheyne. 3. (Chem.) Defn: The quality or condition of any substance which has no inclination to chemical activity; inactivity. PASS-KEY Pass"-key`, n. Defn: A key for opening more locks than one; a master key. PASSLESS Pass"less, a. Defn: Having no pass; impassable. Cowley. PASSMAN Pass"man, n.; pl. Passmen (. Defn: One who passes for a degree, without honors. See Classman, 2. [Eng. Univ.] PASSOVER Pass"o`ver, n. Etym: [Pass + over. See Pasch.] (Jewish Antiq.) (a) A feast of the Jews, instituted to commemorate the sparing of the Hebrews in Egypt, when God, smiting the firstborn of the Egyptians, passed over the houses of the Israelites which were marked with the blood of a lamb. (b) The sacrifice offered at the feast of the passover; the paschal lamb. Ex. xii. PASS-PAROLE Pass`-pa*role", n. Etym: [F. passe-parole.] (Mil.) Defn: An order passed from front to rear by word of mouth. PASSPORT Pass"port (, n. Etym: [F. passeport, orig., a permission to leave a port or to sail into it; passer to pass + port a port, harbor. See Pass, and Port a harbor.] 1. Permission to pass; a document given by the competent officer of a state, permitting the person therein named to pass or travel from place to place, without molestation, by land or by water. Caution in granting passports to Ireland. Clarendon. 2. A document carried by neutral merchant vessels in time of war, to certify their nationality and protect them from belligerents; a sea letter. 3. A license granted in time of war for the removal of persons and effects from a hostile country; a safe-conduct. Burrill. 4. Figuratively: Anything which secures advancement and general acceptance. Sir P. Sidney. His passport is his innocence and grace. Dryden. PASSUS Pas"sus, n.; pl. L. Passus, E. Passuses (. Etym: [L., a step, a pace. See Pace.] Defn: A division or part; a canto; as, the passus of Piers Plowman. See 2d Fit. PASSWORD Pass"word`, n. Defn: A word to be given before a person is allowed to pass; a watchword; a countersign. Macaulay. PASSYMEASURE Pas"sy*meas`ure, n. Etym: [Corrupted fr. It. passamezzo.] [Obs.] Defn: See Paspy. Shak. PAST Past, a. Etym: [From Pass, v.] Defn: Of or pertaining to a former time or state; neither present nor future; gone by; elapsed; ended; spent; as, past troubles; past offences. "Past ages." Milton. Past master. See under Master. PAST Past, n. Defn: A former time or state; a state of things gone by. "The past, at least, is secure." D. Webster. The present is only intelligible in the light of the past, often a very remote past indeed. Trench. PAST Past, prep. 1. Beyond, in position, or degree; further than; beyond the reach or influence of. "Who being past feeling." Eph. iv. 19. "Galled past endurance." Macaulay. Until we be past thy borders. Num. xxi. 22. Love, when once past government, is consequently past shame. L'Estrange. 2. Beyond, in time; after; as, past the hour. Is it not past two o'clock Shak. 3. Above; exceeding; more than. [R.] Not past three quarters of a