[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

(Min.) Defn: Manganese dioxide, occurring in tetragonal crystals nearly as hard as quartz. POLICATE Pol"i*cate, a. (Zoöl.) Defn: Same as Pollicate. POLICE Po*lice", n. Etym: [F., fr. L. politia the condition of a state, government, administration, Gr. pur, puri. Cf. Policy polity, Polity.] 1. A judicial and executive system, for the government of a city, town, or district, for the preservation of rights, order, cleanliness, health, etc., and for the enforcement of the laws and prevention of crime; the administration of the laws and regulations of a city, incorporated town, or borough. 2. That which concerns the order of the community; the internal regulation of a state. 3. The organized body of civil officers in a city, town, or district, whose particular duties are the preservation of good order, the prevention and detection of crime, and the enforcement of the laws. 4. (Mil.) Defn: Military police, the body of soldiers detailed to preserve civil order and attend to sanitary arrangements in a camp or garrison. 5. The cleaning of a camp or garrison, or the state Police commissioner, a civil officer, usually one of a board, commissioned to regulate and control the appointment, duties, and discipline of the police. -- Police constable, or Police officer, a policeman. -- Police court, a minor court to try persons brought before it by the police. -- Police inspector, an officer of police ranking next below a superintendent. -- Police jury, a body of officers who collectively exercise jurisdiction in certain cases of police, as levying taxes, etc.; -- so called in Louisiana. Bouvier. -- Police justice, or Police magistrate, a judge of a police court. -- Police offenses (Law), minor offenses against the order of the community, of which a police court may have final jurisdiction. -- Police station, the headquarters of the police, or of a section of them; the place where the police assemble for orders, and to which they take arrested persons. POLICE Po*lice", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Policed; p. pr. & vb. n. Policing.] 1. To keep in order by police. 2. (Mil.) Defn: To make clean; as, to police a camp. POLICED Po*liced", a. Defn: Regulated by laws for the maintenance of peace and order, enforced by organized administration. "A policed kingdom." Howell. POLICEMAN Po*lice"man, n.; pl. Policemen (. Defn: A member of a body of police; a constable. POLICE POWER Police power. (Law) Defn: The inherent power of a government to regulate its police affairs. The term police power is not definitely fixed in meaning. In the earlier cases in the United States it was used as including the whole power of internal government, or the powers of government inherent in every sovereignty to the extent of its dominions (11 Peters (U. S.) 102). The later cases have excepted from its domain the development and administration of private law. Modern political science defines the power as a branch of internal administration in the exercise of which the executive should move within the lines of general principles prescribed by the constitution or the legislature, and in the exercise of which the most local governmental organizations should participate as far as possible (Burgess). Under this limitation the police power, as affecting persons, is the power of the state to protect the public against the abuse of individual liberty, that is, to restrain the individual in the exercise of his rights when such exercise becomes a danger to the community. The tendency of judicial and popular usage is towards this narrower definition. POLICIAL Po*li"cial (, a. Defn: Relating to the police. [R.] POLICIED Pol"i*cied, a. Defn: Policed. [Obs.] Bacon. POLICY Pol"i*cy, n.; pl. Policies. Etym: [L. politia, Gr. police, Of. police. See Police, n.] 1. Civil polity. [Obs.] 2. The settled method by which the government and affairs of a nation are, or may be, administered; a system of public or official administration, as designed to promote the external or internal prosperity of a state. 3. The method by which any institution is administered; system of management; course. 4. Management or administration based on temporal or material interest, rather than on principles of equity or honor; hence, worldly wisdom; dexterity of management; cunning; stratagem. 5. Prudence or wisdom in the management of public and private affairs; wisdom; sagacity; wit. The very policy of a hostess, finding his purse so far above his clothes, did detect him. Fuller. 6. Motive; object; inducement. [Obs.] What policy have you to bestow a benefit where it is counted an injury Sir P. Sidney. Syn. -- See Polity. POLICY Pol"i*cy, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Policied; p. pr. & vb. n. Policying.] Defn: To regulate by laws; to reduce to order. [Obs.] "Policying of cities." Bacon. POLICY Pol"i*cy, n. Etym: [F. police; cf. Pr. polissia, Sp. pólizia, It. pólizza; of uncertain origin; cf. L. pollex thumb (as being used in pressing the seal), in LL. also, seal; or cf. LL. politicum, poleticum, polecticum, L. polyptychum, account book, register, fr. Gr. apodixa a receipt.] 1. A ticket or warrant for money in the public funds. 2. The writing or instrument in which a contract of insurance is embodied; an instrument in writing containing the terms and conditions on which one party engages to indemnify another against loss arising from certain hazards, perils, or risks to which his person or property may be exposed. See Insurance. 3. A method of gambling by betting as to what numbers will be drawn in a lottery; as, to play policy. Interest policy, a policy that shows by its form that the assured has a real, substantial interest in the matter insured. -- Open policy, one in which the value of the goods or property insured is not mentioned. -- Policy book, a book to contain a record of insurance policies. -- Policy holder, one to whom an insurance policy has been granted. -- Policy shop, a gambling place where one may bet on the numbers which will be drawn in lotteries. -- Valued policy, one in which the value of the goods, property, or interest insured is specified. -- Wager policy, a policy that shows on the face of it that the contract it embodies is a pretended insurance, founded on an ideal risk, where the insured has no interest in anything insured. POLING Pol"ing, n. Etym: [From Pole a stick.] 1. The act of supporting or of propelling by means of a pole or poles; as, the poling of beans; the poling of a boat. 2. (Gardening) Defn: The operation of dispersing worm casts over the walks with poles. 3. One of the poles or planks used in upholding the side earth in excavating a tunnel, ditch, etc. POLISH Pol"ish, a. Etym: [From Pole a Polander.] Defn: Of or pertaining to Poland or its inhabitants. -- n. Defn: The language of the Poles. POLISH Pol"ish, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Polished; p. pr. & vb. n. Polishing.] Etym: [F. polir, L. polire. Cf. Polite, -ish] 1. To make smooth and glossy, usually by friction; to burnish; to overspread with luster; as, to polish glass, marble, metals, etc. 2. Hence, to refine; to wear off the rudeness, coarseness, or rusticity of; to make elegant and polite; as, to polish life or manners. Milton. To polish off, to finish completely, as an adversary. [Slang] W. H. Russell. POLISH Pol"ish, v. i. Defn: To become smooth, as from friction; to receive a gloss; to take a smooth and glossy surface; as, steel polishes well. Bacon. POLISH Pol"ish, n. 1. A smooth, glossy surface, usually produced by friction; a gloss or luster. Another prism of clearer glass and better polish. Sir I. Newton. 2. Anything used to produce a gloss. 3. Fig.: Refinement; elegance of manners. This Roman polish and this smooth behavior. Addison. POLISHABLE Pol"ish*a*ble, a. Defn: Capable of being polished. POLISHED Pol"ished, a. Defn: Made smooth and glossy, as by friction; hence, highly finished; refined; polite; as, polished plate; polished manners; polished verse. POLISHEDNESS Pol"ished*ness, n. Defn: The quality of being polished. POLISHER Pol"ish*er, n. Defn: One who, or that which, polishes; also, that which is used in polishing. Addison. POLISHING Pol"ish*ing, Defn: a. & n. from Polish. Polishing iron, an iron burnisher; esp., a small smoothing iron used in laundries. -- Polishing slate. (a) A gray or yellow slate, found in Bohemia and Auvergne, and used for polishing glass, marble, and metals. (b) A kind of hone or whetstone; hone slate. -- Polishing snake, a tool used in cleaning lithographic stones. -- Polishing wheel, a wheel or disk coated with, or composed of, abrading material, for polishing a surface. POLISHMENT Pol"ish*ment, n. Defn: The act of polishing, or the state of being polished. [R.] POLISSOIR Po`lis`soir", n. [F.] 1. A polishing or grinding implement or instrument. 2. (Glass Making) A tool consisting of a flat wooden block with a long iron handle, used for flattening out split cylinders of blown glass. POLITE Po*lite", a. [Compar. Politer; superl. Politest.] Etym: [L. politus, p. p. of polire to