[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

the plastering which is forced through between the laths and holds the rest in place. 8. (Mach.) (a) A wedge to unite two or more pieces, or adjust their relative position; a cotter; a forelock. See Illusts. of Cotter, and Gib. (b) A bar, pin or wedge, to secure a crank, pulley, coupling, etc., upon a shaft, and prevent relative turning; sometimes holding by friction alone, but more frequently by its resistance to shearing, being usually embedded partly in the shaft and partly in the crank, pulley, etc. 9. (Bot.) Defn: An indehiscent, one-seeded fruit furnished with a wing, as the fruit of the ash and maple; a samara; -- called also key fruit. 10. (Mus.) (a) A family of tones whose regular members are called diatonic tones, and named key tone (or tonic) or one (or eight), mediant or three, dominant or five, subdominant or four, submediant or six, supertonic or two, and subtonic or seven. Chromatic tones are temporary members of a key, under such names as " sharp four," "flat seven," etc. Scales and tunes of every variety are made from the tones of a key. (b) The fundamental tone of a movement to which its modulations are referred, and with which it generally begins and ends; keynote. Both warbling of one song, both in one key. Shak. 11. Fig: The general pitch or tone of a sentence or utterance. You fall at once into a lower key. Cowper. Key bed. Same as Key seat. -- Key bolt, a bolt which has a mortise near the end, and is secured by a cotter or wedge instead of a nut. Key bugle. See Kent bugle. -- Key of a position or country. (Mil.) See Key, 4. -- Key seat (Mach.), a bed or groove to receive a key which prevents one part from turning on the other. -- Key way, a channel for a key, in the hole of a piece which is keyed to a shaft; an internal key seat; -- called also key seat. -- Key wrench (Mach.), an adjustable wrench in which the movable jaw is made fast by a key. -- Power of the keys (Eccl.), the authority claimed by the ministry in some Christian churches to administer the discipline of the church, and to grant or withhold its privileges; -- so called from the declaration of Christ, "I will give unto thee the keys of the kingdom of heaven." Matt. xvi. 19. KEY Key, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Keved; p. pr. & vb. n. Keying.] Defn: To fasten or secure firmly; to fasten or tighten with keys or wedges. Francis. To key up. (a) (Arch.) To raise (the whole ring of an arch) off its centering, by driving in the keystone forcibly. (b) (Mus.) To raise the pitch of. (c) Hence, fig., to produce nervous tension in. KEYAGE Key"age, n. Etym: [OF.caiage, F. guayage. See lst Key, Quay.] Defn: Wharfage; quayage. KEYBOARD Key"board`, n. Defn: The whole arrangement, or one range, of the keys of an organ, typewriter, etc. KEY-COLD Key"-cold`, a. Defn: Cold as a metallic key; lifeless. [Formerly, a proverbial expression.] Shak. Milton. KEYED Keyed (ked), a. Defn: Furnished with keys; as, a keyed instrument; also, set to a key, as a tune. Keyed bugle. See Kent bugle. KEY FRUIT Key fruit. (Bot.) Defn: A samara. KEYHOLE Key"hole`, n. 1. A hole or apertupe in a door or lock, for receiving a key. 2. (a) (Carp.) A hole or excavation in beams intended to be joined together, to receive the key which fastens them. (b) (Mach.) a mortise for a key or cotter. Keyhole limpet (Zoöl.), a marine gastropod of the genus Fissurella and allied genera. See Fissurella. -- Keyhole saw, a narrow, slender saw, used in cutting keyholes, etc., as in doors; a kind of compass saw or fret saw. -- Keyhole urchin (Zoöl.), any one of numerous clypeastroid sea urchins, of the genera Melitta, Rotula, and Encope; -- so called because they have one or more perforations resembling keyholes. KEYNOTE Key"note`, n. 1. (Mus.) Defn: The tonic or first tone of the scale in which a piece or passage is written; the fundamental tone of the chord, to which all the modulations of the piece are referred; -- called also key tone. 2. The fundamental fact or idea; that which gives the key; as, the keynote of a policy or a sermon. KEYSEAT Key"seat`, v. t. Defn: To form a key seat, as by cutting. See Key seat, under Key. KEYSTONE Key"stone`, n. (Arch.) Defn: The central or topmost stone of an arch. This in some styles is made different in size from the other voussoirs, or projects, or is decorated with carving. See Illust. of Arch. Keystone State, the State of Pennsylvania; -- so called from its having been the central State of the Union at the formation of the Constitution. KEYSTONE STATE Key"stone` State. Defn: Pennsylvania; -- a nickname alluding to its having been the central one of the 13 original United States. KEY TONE Key" tone`. (Mus.) Defn: See Keynote. KEYWAY Key"way`, n. Defn: See Key way, under Key. KHAKI Kha"ki (kä"ke), a. [Hind. khaki, lit., dusty, dust-colored, fr. Per. khak dust.] Defn: Of a dull brownish yellow, or drab color; -- applied to cloth, originally to a stout brownish cotton cloth, used in making uniforms in the Anglo-Indian army. In the United States service the summer uniform of cotton is officially designated khaki; the winter uniform of wool, olive drab. KHAKI Kha"ki, n. Defn: Any kind of khaki cloth; hence, a uniform of khaki or, rarely, a soldier clad in khaki. In the United States and British armies khaki or cloth of a very similar color is almost exclusively used for service in the field. KHALIFF Kha"liff, n. Defn: See Caliph. KHAMSIN Kham*sin`, n. Defn: Same as Kamsin. KHAN Khan, n. Etym: [Pers. & Tart. khan.] [Also kan, kaun.] Defn: A king; a prince; a chief; a governor; -- so called among the Tartars, Turks, and Persians, and in countries now or formerly governed by them. KHAN Khan, n. Etym: [Per. khan, khanah, house, tent, inn.] Defn: An Eastern inn or caravansary. [Written also kawn.] KHANATE Khan*ate (, n. Defn: Dominion or jurisdiction of a khan. KHAYA Kha"ya, n. (Bot.) Defn: A lofty West African tree (Khaya Senegalensis), related to the mahogany, which it resembles in the quality of the wood. The bark is used as a febrifuge. KHEDIVE Khe`dive", n. Etym: [F. khédive, Pers. khediw a prince.] Defn: A governor or viceroy; -- a title granted in 1867 by the sultan of Turkey to the ruler of Egypt. KHENNA Khen"na, n. Defn: See Henna. KHOLAH Kho"lah, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: The Indian jackal. KHOLSUN Khol"sun (, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: The dhole. KHOND Khond, n. Defn: A Dravidian of a group of tribes of Orissa, India, a section of whom were formerly noted for their cruel human sacrifices to the earth goddess, murder of female infants, and marriage by capture. KHUTBAH Khut"bah, n. Etym: [Ar.] Defn: An address or public prayer read from the steps of the pulpit in Mohammedan mosques, offering glory to God, praising Mohammed and his descendants, and the ruling princes. KIABOOCA WOOD Ki`a*boo"ca wood` Defn: . See Kyaboca wood. KIANG Ki*ang", n. (Zoöl.) Defn: The dziggetai. KIBBLE Kib"ble, v. t. Defn: To bruise; to grind coarsely; as, kibbled oats. [Prov.Eng.] Halliwell. KIBBLE Kib"ble, n. Defn: A large iron bucket used in Cornwall and Wales for raising ore out of mines. [Prov. Eng.] [Written also kibbal.] KIBBLINGS Kib"blings, n. pl. Defn: Portions of small fish used for bait on the banks of Newfoundland. KIBE Kibe, n. Etym: [W. cib + gwst pain, sickness.] Defn: A chap or crack in the flesh occasioned by cold; an ulcerated chilblain. "He galls his kibe." Shak. KIBED Kibed, a. Defn: Chapped; cracked with cold; affected with chilblains; as kibed heels. Beau. & Fl. KIBITKA Ki*bit"ka, n.; pl. Kibitkas (. Etym: [Russ.] 1. A tent used by the Kirghiz Tartars. 2. A rude kind of Russian vehicle, on wheels or on runners, sometimes covered with cloth or leather, and often used as a movable habitation. KIBLAH Kib"lah (, n. Defn: See Keblah. KIBOSH Ki"bosh, n. 1. Nonsense; stuff; also, fashion; style. [Slang] 2. Portland cement when thrown or blown into the recesses of carved stonework to intensify the shadows. To put the kibosh on, to do for; to dispose of. [Slang] KIBY Kib"y, a. Defn: Affected with kibes. Skelton. KICHIL Kich"il Defn: ,. [Obs.] See Kechil. Chaucer. KICK Kick, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Kicred; p. pr. & vb. n. Kicking.] Etym: [W. cicio, fr. cic foot.] Defn: To strike, thrust, or hit violently with the foot; as, a horse kicks a groom; a man kicks a dog. He [Frederick the Great] kicked the shins of his judges. Macaulay. To kick the beam, to fit up and strike the beam; -- said of the lighter arm of a loaded balance; hence, to be found wanting