[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

the opposite direction; -- a term applied particularly to periodical winds of the Indian Ocean, which blow from the southwest from the latter part of May to the middle of September, and from the northeast from about the middle of October to the middle of December. MONSTER Mon"ster, n. Etym: [OE. monstre, F. monstre, fr. L. monstrum, orig., a divine omen, indicating misfortune; akin of monstrare to show, point out, indicate, and monere to warn. See Monition, and cf. Demonstrate, Muster.] 1. Something of unnatural size, shape, or quality; a prodigy; an enormity; a marvel. A monster or marvel. Chaucer. 2. Specifically , an animal or plant departing greatly from the usual type, as by having too many limbs. 3. Any thing or person of unnatural or excessive ugliness, deformity, wickedness, or cruelty. MONSTER Mon"ster, a. Defn: Monstrous in size. Pope. MONSTER Mon"ster, v. t. Defn: To make monstrous. [Obs.] Shak. MONSTRANCE Mon"strance, n. Etym: [LL. monstrantia, fr. L. monstrare to show: cf. OF. monstrance. See Monster.] (R. C. Ch.) Defn: A transparent pyx, in which the consecrated host is exposed to view. MONSTRATION Mon*stra"tion, n. Etym: [L. monstratio.] Defn: The act of demonstrating; proof. [Obs.] A certain monstration. Grafton. MONSTROSITY Mon*stros"i*ty, n.; pl. Monstrosities. Etym: [Cf. F. monstruosité. See Monstrous.] Defn: The state of being monstrous, or out of the common order of nature; that which is monstrous; a monster. South. A monstrosity never changes the name or affects the immutability of a species. Adanson (Trans. ). MONSTROUS Mon"strous, a. Etym: [OE. monstruous, F. monstrueux, fr. L. monstruosus, fr. monstrum. See Monster.] 1. Marvelous; strange. [Obs.] 2. Having the qualities of a monster; deviating greatly from the natural form or character; abnormal; as, a monstrous birth. Locke. He, therefore, that refuses to do good to them whom he is bound to love ... is unnatural and monstrous in his affections. Jer. Taylor. 3. Extraordinary in a way to excite wonder, dislike, apprehension, etc.; -- said of size, appearance, color, sound, etc.; as, a monstrous height; a monstrous ox; a monstrous story. 4. Extraordinary on account of ugliness, viciousness, or wickedness; hateful; horrible; dreadful. So bad a death argues a monstrous life. Shak. 5. Abounding in monsters. [R.] Where thou, perhaps, under the whelming tide Visitest the bottom of the monstrous world. Milton. MONSTROUS Mon"strous, adv. Defn: Exceedingly; very; very much. "A monstrous thick oil on the top." Bacon. And will be monstrous witty on the poor. Dryden. MONSTROUSLY Mon"strous*ly, adv. Defn: In a monstrous manner; unnaturally; extraordinarily; as, monstrously wicked. "Who with his wife is monstrously in love." Dryden. MONSTROUSNESS Mon"strous*ness, n. Defn: The state or quality of being monstrous, unusual, extraordinary. Shak. MONSTRUOSITY Mon`stru*os"i*ty, n. Defn: Monstrosity. [Obs.] Shak. MONSTRUOUS Mon"stru*ous, a. Defn: Monstrous. [Obs.] MONT Mont, n. Etym: [F. See Mount, n.] Defn: Mountain. MONTAIGNE Mon"taigne, n. Defn: A mountain. [Obs.] MONTANIC Mon*tan"ic, a. Etym: [L. montanus, fr. mons, montis, mountain. See Mount, n.] Defn: Of or pertaining to mountains; consisting of mountains. MONTANIST Mon"ta*nist, n. (Eccl. Hist.) Defn: A follower of Mintanus, a Phrygian enthusiast of the second century, who claimed that the Holy Spirit, the Paraclete, dwelt in him, and employed him as an instrument for purifying and guiding men in the Christian life. -- Mon`ta*nis"tic, Mon`ta*nis"tic*al, a. MONTANT Mon"tant, n. Etym: [F.,prop., mounting, fr. monter to mount, fr. L. mons, montis, mountain. See Mount.] 1. (Fencing) Defn: An upward thrust or blow. Shak. 2. (Arch.) Defn: An upright piece in any framework; a mullion or muntin; a stile. [R.] See Stile. MONT DE PIETE Mont" de pi`é`té". Etym: [F., fr. It. monte di pietà mount of piety.] Defn: One of certain public pawnbroking establishments which originated in Italy in the 15th century, the object of which was to lend money at a low rate of interest to poor people in need; -- called also mount of piety. The institution has been adopted in other countries, as in Spain and France. See Lombard-house. MONTE Mon"te, n. Etym: [Sp., lit., mountain, hence, the stock of cards remaining after laying out a certain number, fr. L. mons, montis, mountain.] Defn: A favorite gambling game among Spaniards, played with dice or cards. MONTE-ACID Monte`-ac"id, n. Etym: [F. monter to raise + acide acid.] (Chem.) Defn: An acid elevator, as a tube through which acid is forced to some height in a sulphuric acid manufactory. MONTEITH Mon*teith", n. Defn: See Monteth. MONTE-JUS Monte"-jus", n. [F., fr. monter to bring up + jus juice.] Defn: An apparatus for raising a liquid by pressure of air or steam in a reservoir containing the liquid. MONTEM Mon"tem, n. Etym: [L. ad montem to the hillock. See Mount, n.] Defn: A custom, formerly practiced by the scholars at Eton school, England, of giing every third year, on Whittuesday, to a hillock near the Bath road, and exacting money from all passers-by, to support at the university the senior scholar of the school. MONTERO Mon*te"ro, n. Etym: [Sp. montera a hunting cap, fr. montero a huntsman, monte a mountain, forest, L. mons, montis, mountain. See Mount, n.] Defn: An ancient kind of cap worn by horsemen or huntsmen. Bacon. MONTESSORI METHOD Mon`tes*so"ri Meth"od. (Pedagogy) Defn: A system of training and instruction, primarily for use with normal children aged from three to six years, devised by Dr. Maria Montessori while teaching in the "Houses of Childhood" (schools in the poorest tenement districts of Rome, Italy), and first fully described by her in 1909. Leading features are freedom for physical activity (no stationary desks and chairs), informal and individual instruction, the very early development of writing, and an extended sensory and motor training (with special emphasis on vision, touch, perception of movement, and their interconnections), mediated by a patented, standardized system of "didactic apparatus," which is declared to be "auto-regulative." Most of the chief features of the method are borrowed from current methods used in many institutions for training feeble-minded children, and dating back especially to the work of the French-American physician Edouard O. Seguin (1812- 80). MONTETH; MONTEITH Mon*teth", Mon*teith", n. Defn: A vessel in which glasses are washed; -- so called from the name of the inventor. New things produce new words, and thus Monteth Has by one vessel saved his name from death. King. MONTGOLFIER Mont`gol"fier, n. Defn: A balloon which ascends by the buoyancy of air heated by a fire; a fire balloon; -- so called from two brothers, Stephen and Joseph Montgolfier, of France, who first constructed and sent up a fire balloon. MONTH Month, n. Etym: [OE. month, moneth, AS. mon, mona; akin to mona moon, and to D. maand month, G. monat, OHG. manod, Icel. manu, mana, Goth. meno. *272. See Moon.] Defn: One of the twelve portions into which the year is divided; the twelfth part of a year, corresponding nearly to the length of a synodic revolution of the moon, -- whence the name. In popular use, a period of four weeks is often called a month. Note: In the common law, a month is a lunar month, or twenty-eight days, unless otherwise expressed. Blackstone. In the United States the rule of the common law is generally cahanged, and a month is declared to mean a calendar month. Cooley's Blackstone. A month mind. (a) A strong or abnormal desire. [Obs.] Shak. (b) A celebration made in remembrance of a deceased person a month after death. Strype. -- Calendar months, the months as adjusted in the common or Gregorian calendar; April, June, September, and November, containing 30 days, and the rest 31, except February, which, in common years, has 28, and in leap years 29. -- Lunar month, the period of one revolution of the moon, particularly a synodical revolution; but several kinds are distinguished, as the synodical month, or period from one new moon to the next, in mean length 29 d. 12 h. 44 m. 2.87 s.; the nodical month, or time of revolution from one node to the same again, in length 27 d. 5 h. 5 m. 36 s.; the sidereal, or time of revolution from a star to the same again, equal to 27 d. 7 h. 43 m. 11.5 s.; the anomalistic, or time of revolution from perigee to perigee again, in length 27 d. 13 h. 18 m. 37.4 s.; and the tropical, or time of passing from any point of the ecliptic to the same again, equal to 27 d. 7 h. 43 m. 4.7 s. -- Solar month, the time in which the sun passes through one sign of the zodiac, in mean length 30 d. 10 h. 29 m. 4.1 s. MONTHLING Month"ling, n. Defn: That which is a month old, or which lives for a month. [R.] Wordsworth. MONTHLY Month"ly, a. 1. Continued a month, or a performed in a month; as, the monthly revolution of the moon. 2. Done, happening, payable, published, etc., once a month, or every month; as, a monthly visit; monthly charges; a monthly installment; a monthly magazine. Monthly nurse, a nurse who