[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

hearts with lamentable wounds. Spenser. 3. To cause to move or slide from the land into the water; to set afloat; as, to launch a ship. With stays and cordage last he rigged the ship, And rolled on levers, launched her in the deep. Pope. 4. To send out; to start (one) on a career; to set going; to give a start to (something); to put in operation; as, to launch a son in the world; to launch a business project or enterprise. All art is used to sink episcopacy, and launch presbytery in England. Eikon Basilike. LAUNCH Launch, v. i. Defn: To move with force and swiftness like a sliding from the stocks into the water; to plunge; to make a beginning; as, to launch into the current of a stream; to launch into an argument or discussion; to launch into lavish expenditures; -- often with out. Launch out into the deep, and let down your nets for a draught. Luke v. 4. He [Spenser] launches out into very flowery paths. Prior. LAUNCH Launch, n. 1. The act of launching. 2. The movement of a vessel from land into the water; especially, the sliding on ways from the stocks on which it is built. 3. Etym: [Cf. Sp. lancha.] (Naut.) Defn: The boat of the largest size belonging to a ship of war; also, an open boat of any size driven by steam, naphtha, electricity, or the like. Launching ways. (Naut.) See Way, n. (Naut.). LAUND Laund (lalnd), n. Etym: [See Lawn of grass.] Defn: A plain sprinkled with trees or underbrush; a glade. [Obs.] In a laund upon an hill of flowers. Chaucer. Through this laund anon the deer will come. Shak. LAUNDER Laun"der, n. Etym: [Contracted fr. OE. lavender, F. lavandière, LL. lavandena, from L. lavare to wash. See Lave.] 1. A washerwoman. [Obs.] 2. (Mining) Defn: A trough used by miners to receive the powdered ore from the box where it is beaten, or for carrying water to the stamps, or other apparatus, for comminuting, or sorting, the ore. LAUNDER Laun"der, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Laundered; p. pr. & vb. n. Laundering.] 1. To wash, as clothes; to wash, and to smooth with a flatiron or mangle; to wash and iron; as, to launder shirts. 2. To lave; to wet. [Obs.] Shak. LAUNDERER Laun"der*er, n. Defn: One who follows the business of laundering. LAUNDERING Laun"der*ing, n. Defn: The act, or occupation, of one who launders; washing and ironing. LAUNDRESS Laun"dress, n. Defn: A woman whose employment is laundering. LAUNDRESS Laun"dress, v. i. Defn: To act as a laundress.[Obs.] LAUNDRY Laun"dry, n.; pl. Laundries. Etym: [OE. lavendrie, OF. lavanderie. See Launder.] 1. A laundering; a washing. 2. A place or room where laundering is done. LAUNDRYMAN Laun"dry*man, n.; pl. Laundrymen (. Defn: A man who follows the business of laundering. LAURA Lau"ra, n. Etym: [LL., fr. Gr. ( (R. C. Ch.) Defn: A number of hermitages or cells in the same neighborhood occupied by anchorites who were under the same superior. C. Kingsley. LAURACEOUS Lau*ra"ceous, a. Etym: [From Laurus.] (Bot.) Defn: Belonging to, or resembling, a natural order (Lauraceæ) of trees and shrubs having aromatic bark and foliage, and including the laurel, sassafras, cinnamon tree, true camphor tree, etc. LAURATE Lau"rate, n. (Chem.) Defn: A salt of lauric acid. LAUREATE Lau"re*ate, a. Etym: [L. laureatus, fr. laurea laurel tree, fr. laureus of laurel, fr. laurus laurel: cf. F. lauréat. Cf. Laurel.] Defn: Crowned, or decked, with laurel. Chaucer. To strew the laureate hearse where Lycid lies. Milton. Soft on her lap her laureate son reclines. Pope. Poet laureate. (b) One who received an honorable degree in grammar, including poetry and rhetoric, at the English universities; -- so called as being presented with a wreath of laurel. [Obs.] (b) Formerly, an officer of the king's household, whose business was to compose an ode annually for the king's birthday, and other suitable occasions; now, a poet officially distinguished by such honorary title, the office being a sinecure. It is said this title was first given in the time of Edward IV. [Eng.] LAUREATE Lau"re*ate, n. Defn: One crowned with laurel; a poet laureate. "A learned laureate." Cleveland. LAUREATE Lau"re*ate, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Laureated; p. pr. & vb. n. Laureating.] Defn: To honor with a wreath of laurel, as formerly was done in bestowing a degree at the English universities. LAUREATESHIP Lau"re*ate*ship, n. Defn: State, or office, of a laureate. LAUREATION Lau`re*a"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. lauréation.] Defn: The act of crowning with laurel; the act of conferring an academic degree, or honorary title. LAUREL Lau"rel, n. Etym: [OE. lorel, laurer, lorer, OF. lorier, laurier, F. laurier, (assumed) LL. Laurarius, fr. L. laurus.] 1. (Bot.) Defn: An evergreen shrub, of the genus Laurus (L. nobilis), having aromatic leaves of a lanceolate shape, with clusters of small, yellowish white flowers in their axils; -- called also sweet bay. Note: The fruit is a purple berry. It is found about the Mediterranean, and was early used by the ancient Greeks to crown the victor in the games of Apollo. At a later period, academic honors were indicated by a crown of laurel, with the fruit. The leaves and tree yield an aromatic oil, used to flavor the bay water of commerce. Note: The name is extended to other plants which in some respect resemble the true laurel. See Phrases, below. 2. A crown of laurel; hence, honor; distinction; fame; -- especially in the plural; as, to win laurels. 3. An English gold coin made in 1619, and so called because the king's head on it was crowned with laurel. Laurel water, water distilled from the fresh leaves of the cherry laurel, and containing prussic acid and other products carried over in the process. American laurel, or Mountain laurel, Kalmia latifolia. See under Mountain. -- California laurel, Umbellularia Californica. -- Cherry laurel (in England called laurel). See under Cherry. -- Great laurel, the rosebay (Rhododendron maximum). -- Ground laurel, trailing arbutus. -- New Zealand laurel, Laurelia Novæ Zelandiæ. -- Portugal laurel, the Prunus Lusitanica. -- Rose laurel, the oleander. See Oleander. -- Sheep laurel, a poisonous shrub, Kalmia angustifolia, smaller than the mountain laurel, and with smaller and redder flowers. -- Spurge laurel, Daphne Laureola. -- West Indian laurel, Prunus occidentalis. LAURELED Lau"reled, a. Defn: Crowned with laurel, or with a laurel wreath; laureate. [Written also laurelled.] LAURENTIAN Lau*ren"tian, a. Defn: Pertaining to, or near, the St. Lawrence River; as, the Laurentian hills. Laurentian period (Geol.), the lower of the two divisions of the Archæan age; -- called also the Laurentian. LAURER Lau"rer, n. Defn: Laurel. [Obs.] Chaucer. LAURESTINE Lau"res*tine, n. Etym: [NL. lautus tinus, fr. L. laurus the laurel + tinus laurestine. See Laurel.] (Bot.) Defn: The Viburnum Tinus, an evergreen shrub or tree of the south of Europe, which flowers during the winter mouths. [Written also laurustine and laurestina.] LAURIC Lau"ric, a. Defn: Pertaining to, or derived from, the European bay or laurel (Laurus nobilis). Lauric acid (Chem.), a white, crystalline substance, C12H24O2, resembling palmitic acid, and obtained from the fruit of the bay tree, and other sources. LAURIFEROUS Lau*rif"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. laurifer; laurus + ferre to bear.] Defn: Producing, or bringing, laurel. LAURIN Lau"rin, n. Etym: [Cf. F. laurine.] (Chem.) Defn: A white crystalline substance extracted from the fruit of the bay (Laurus nobilis), and consisting of a complex mixture of glycerin ethers of several organic acids. LAURINOL Lau"ri*nol, n. Etym: [Laurin + -ol.] (Chem.) Defn: Ordinary camphor; -- so called in allusion to the family name (Lauraceæ) of the camphor trees. See Camphor. LAURIOL Lau"ri*ol, n. Defn: Spurge laurel. [Obs.] Chaucer. LAURITE Lau"rite, n. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.] (Min.) Defn: A rare sulphide of osmium and ruthenium found with platinum in Borneo and Oregon. LAURONE Lau"rone, n. Etym: [Lauric + -one.] (Chem.) Defn: The ketone of lauric acid. LAURUS Lau"rus, n. Etym: [L., laurel.] (Bot.) Defn: A genus of trees including, according to modern authors, only the true laurel (Laurus nobilis), and the larger L. Canariensis of Madeira and the Canary Islands. Formerly the sassafras, the camphor tree, the cinnamon tree, and several other aromatic trees and shrubs, were also referred to the genus Laurus. LAUS Laus, a. Defn: Loose. [Obs.] Chaucer. LAUTVERSCHIEBUNG Laut"ver*schie`bung, n.; pl. -schiebungen. [G.; laut sound + verschiebung shifting.] (Philol.) (a) The regular changes which the primitive Indo-European stops, or mute consonants, underwent in the Teutonic languages, probably as early as the 3d century b. c. , often called the first Lautverschiebung, sound shifting, or consonant shifting. (b) A somewhat similar set of changes taking place in the High German dialects (less fully in modern literary German) from the 6th to the 8th century, known as the second Lautverschiebung, the result of which form the striking differences between High German and The Low German Languages. The statement of these changes is commonly regarded as forming part of Grimm's law, because included in it as originally framed. LAVA La"va, n. Etym: