[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

be, not as they are. Goldsmith. Can I, untouched, the fair one's passions move, Or thou draw beauty and not feel its power Prior. 9. To write in due form; to prepare a draught of; as, to draw a memorial, a deed, or bill of exchange. Clerk, draw a deed of gift. Shak. 10. To require (so great a depth, as of water) for floating; -- said of a vessel; to sink so deep in (water); as, a ship draws ten feet of water. 11. To withdraw. [Obs.] Chaucer. Go wash thy face, and draw the action. Shak. 12. To trace by scent; to track; -- a hunting term. Note: Draw, in most of its uses, retains some shade of its original sense, to pull, to move forward by the application of force in advance, or to extend in length, and usually expresses an action as gradual or continuous, and leisurely. We pour liquid quickly, but we draw it in a continued stream. We force compliance by threats, but we draw it by gradual prevalence. We may write a letter with haste, but we draw a bill with slow caution and regard to a precise form. We draw a bar of metal by continued beating. To draw a bow, to bend the bow by drawing the string for discharging the arrow. -- To draw a cover, to clear a cover of the game it contains. -- To draw a curtain, to cause a curtain to slide or move, either closing or unclosing. "Night draws the curtain, which the sun withdraws." Herbert. -- To draw a line, to fix a limit or boundary. -- To draw back, to receive back, as duties on goods for exportation. -- To draw breath, to breathe. Shak. -- To draw cuts or lots. See under Cut, n. -- To draw in. (a) To bring or pull in; to collect. (b) To entice; to inveigle. -- To draw interest, to produce or gain interest. -- To draw off, to withdraw; to abstract. Addison. -- To draw on, to bring on; to occasion; to cause. "War which either his negligence drew on, or his practices procured." Hayward. -- To draw (one) out, to elicit cunningly the thoughts and feelings of another. -- To draw out, to stretch or extend; to protract; to spread out. -- "Wilt thou draw out thine anger to all generations" Ps. lxxxv. 5. "Linked sweetness long drawn out." Milton. -- To draw over, to cause to come over, to induce to leave one part or side for the opposite one. -- To draw the longbow, to exaggerate; to tell preposterous tales. -- To draw (one) to or on to (something), to move, to incite, to induce. "How many actions most ridiculous hast thou been drawn to by thy fantasy" Shak. -- To draw up. (a) To compose in due form; to draught; to form in writing. (b) To arrange in order, as a body of troops; to array. "Drawn up in battle to receive the charge." Dryden. Syn. -- To Draw, Drag. Draw differs from drag in this, that drag implies a natural inaptitude for drawing, or positive resistance; it is applied to things pulled or hauled along the ground, or moved with toil or difficulty. Draw is applied to all bodies moved by force in advance, whatever may be the degree of force; it commonly implies that some kind of aptitude or provision exists for drawing. Draw is the more general or generic term, and drag the more specific. We say, the horses draw a coach or wagon, but they drag it through mire; yet draw is properly used in both cases. DRAW Draw, v. i. 1. To pull; to exert strength in drawing anything; to have force to move anything by pulling; as, a horse draws well; the sails of a ship draw well. Note: A sail is said to draw when it is filled with wind. 2. To draw a liquid from some receptacle, as water from a well. The woman saith unto him, Sir, thou hast nothing to draw with, and the well is deep. John iv. 11. 3. To exert an attractive force; to act as an inducement or enticement. Keep a watch upon the particular bias of their minds, that it may not draw too much. Addison. 4. (Med.) Defn: To have efficiency as an epispastic; to act as a sinapism; -- said of a blister, poultice, etc. 5. To have draught, as a chimney, flue, or the like; to furnish transmission to smoke, gases, etc. 6. To unsheathe a weapon, especially a sword. So soon as ever thou seest him, draw; and as thou drawest, swear horrible. Shak. 7. To perform the act, or practice the art, of delineation; to sketch; to form figures or pictures. "Skill in drawing." Locke. 8. To become contracted; to shrink. "To draw into less room." Bacon. 9. To move; to come or go; literally, to draw one's self; -- with prepositions and adverbs; as, to draw away, to move off, esp. in racing, to get in front; to obtain the lead or increase it; to draw back, to retreat; to draw level, to move up even (with another); to come up to or overtake another; to draw off, to retire or retreat; to draw on, to advance; to draw up, to form in array; to draw near, nigh, or towards, to approach; to draw together, to come together, to collect. 10. To make a draft or written demand for payment of money deposited or due; -- usually with on or upon. You may draw on me for the expenses of your journey. Jay. 11. To admit the action of pulling or dragging; to undergo draught; as, a carriage draws easily. 12. To sink in water; to require a depth for floating. "Greater hulks draw deep." Shak. To draw to a head. (a) (Med.) To begin to suppurate; to ripen, as a boil. (b) Fig.: To ripen, to approach the time for action; as, the plot draws to a head. DRAW Draw, n. 1. The act of drawing; draught. 2. A lot or chance to be drawn. 3. A drawn game or battle, etc. [Colloq.] 4. That part of a bridge which may be raised, swung round, or drawn aside; the movable part of a drawbridge. See the Note under Drawbridge. [U.S.] DRAWABLE Draw"a*ble, a. Defn: Capable of being drawn. DRAWBACK Draw"back`, n. 1. A lose of advantage, or deduction from profit, value, success, etc.; a discouragement or hindrance; objectionable feature. The avaridrawback from the wisdom ascribed to him. Hallam. 2. (Com.) Defn: Money paid back or remitted; especially, a certain amount of duties or customs, sometimes the whole, and sometimes only a part, remitted or paid back by the government, on the exportation of the commodities on which they were levied. M DRAWBAR Draw"bar`, n. (Railroad) (a) An openmouthed bar at the end of a car, which receives a coupling link and pin by which the car is drawn. It is usually provided with a spring to give elasticity to the connection between the cars of a train. (b) A bar of iron with an eye at each end, or a heavy link, for coupling a locomotive to a tender or car. DRAWBENCH Draw"bench`, n. (Med.) Defn: A machine in which strips of metal are drawn through a drawplate; especially, one in which wire is thus made; -- also called drawing bench. DRAWBOLT Draw"bolt`, n. (Engin.) Defn: A coupling pin. See under Coupling. DRAWBORE Draw"bore`, n. (Joinery) Defn: A hole bored through a tenon nearer to the shoulder than the holes through the cheeks are to the edge or abutment against which the shoulder is to rest, so that a pin or bolt, when driven into it, will draw these parts together. Weale. DRAWBORE Draw"bore`, v. t. 1. To make a drawbore in; as, to drawbore a tenon. 2. To enlarge the bore of a gun barrel by drawing, instead of thrusting, a revolving tool through it. DRAWBOY Draw"boy`, n. (Weaving) Defn: A boy who operates the harness cords of a hand loom; also, a part of power loom that performs the same office. DRAWBRIDGE Draw"bridge`, n. Defn: A bridge of which either the whole or a part is made to be raised up, let down, or drawn or turned aside, to admit or hinder communication at pleasure, as before the gate of a town or castle, or over a navigable river or canal. Note: The movable portion, or draw, is called, specifically, a bascule, balance, or lifting bridge, a turning, swivel, or swing bridge, or a rolling bridge, according as it turns on a hinge vertically, or on a pivot horizontally, or is pushed on rollers. DRAWCANSIR Draw"can*sir, n. Etym: [From the name of a bullying braggart character in the play by George Villiers called "The Rehearsal."] Defn: A blustering, bullying fellow; a pot-valiant braggart; a bully. The leader was of an ugly look and gigantic stature; he acted