[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

Shak. -- Name plate, a plate as of metal, glass, etc., having a name upon it, as a sign; a doorplate. -- Pen name, a name assumed by an author; a pseudonym or nom de plume. Bayard Taylor. -- Proper name (Gram.), a name applied to a particular person, place, or thing. -- To call names, to apply opprobrious epithets to; to call by reproachful appellations. -- To take a name in vain, to use a name lightly or profanely; to use a name in making flippant or dishonest oaths. Ex. xx. 7. Syn. -- Appellation; title; designation; cognomen; denomination; epithet. -- Name, Appellation, Title, Denomination. Name is generic, denoting that combination of sounds or letters by which a person or thing is known and distinguished. Appellation, although sometimes put for name simply, denotes, more properly, a descriptive term, used by way of marking some individual peculiarity or characteristic; as, Charles the Bold, Philip the Stammerer. A title is a term employed to point out one's rank, office, etc.; as, the Duke of Bedford, Paul the Apostle, etc. Denomination is to particular bodies what appellation is to individuals; thus, the church of Christ is divided into different denominations, as Congregationalists, Episcopalians, Presbyterians, etc. NAME Name, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Named; p. pr. & vb. n. Naming.] Etym: [AS. namian. See Name, n.] 1. To give a distinctive name or appellation to; to entitle; to denominate; to style; to call. She named the child Ichabod. 1 Sam. iv. 21. Thus was the building left Ridiculous, and the work Confusion named. Milton. 2. To mention by name; to utter or publish the name of; to refer to by distinctive title; to mention. None named thee but to praise. Halleck. Old Yew, which graspest at the stones That name the underlying dead. Tennyson. 3. To designate by name or specifically for any purpose; to nominate; to specify; to appoint; as, to name a day for the wedding. Whom late you have named for consul. Shak. 4. (House of Commons) Defn: To designate (a member) by name, as the Speaker does by way of reprimand. Syn. -- To denominate; style; term; call; mention; specify; designate; nominate. NAMELESS Name"less, a. 1. Without a name; not having been given a name; as, a nameless star. Waller. 2. Undistinguished; not noted or famous. A nameless dwelling and an unknown name. Harte. 3. Not known or mentioned by name; anonymous; as, a nameless writer."Nameless pens." Atterbury. 4. Unnamable; indescribable; inexpressible. But what it is, that is not yet known; what I can not name; nameless woe,I wot. Shak. I have a nameless horror of the man. Hawthorne. NAMELESSLY Name"less*ly, adv. Defn: In a nameless manner. NAMELY Name"ly, adv. 1. By name; by particular mention; specifically; especially; expressly. [Obs.] Chaucer. The solitariness of man ...God hath namely and principally ordered to prevent by marriage. Milton. 2. That is to say; to wit; videlicet; -- introducing a particular or specific designation. For the excellency of the soul, namely, its power of divining dreams; that several such divinations have been made, none Addison. NAMER Nam"er, n. Defn: One who names, or calls by name. NAMESAKE Name"sake`, n. Etym: [For name's sake; i. e., one named for the sake of another's name.] Defn: One that has the same name as another; especially, one called after, or named out of regard to, another. NAMO Na*mo", adv. Defn: No more. [Obs.] Chaucer. NAN Nan, inerj. Etym: [For anan.] Defn: Anan. [Prov. Eng.] NANDINE Nan"dine, n. Etym: [Native name.] (Zoöl.) Defn: An African carnivore (Nandinia binotata), allied to the civets. It is spotted with black. NANDOU; NANDU Nan"dou, Nan"du, n. Etym: [Braz. nhandu or yandu.] (Zoöl.) Defn: Any one of three species of South American ostriches of the genera Rhea and Pterocnemia. See Rhea. [Written also nandow.] NANISM Na"nism, n. [Gr. + -ism: cf. F. nanisme.] Defn: The condition of being abnormally small in stature; dwarfishness; -- opposed to gigantism. NANKEEN Nan*keen", n. Etym: [So called from its being originally manufactured at Nankin, in China.] [Written also nankin.] 1. A species of cloth, of a firm texture, originally brought from China, made of a species of cotton (Gossypium religiosum) that is naturally of a brownish yellow color quite indestructible and permanent. 2. An imitation of this cloth by artificial coloring. 3. pl. Defn: Trousers made of nankeen. Ld. Lytton. Nankeen bird (Zoöl.), the Australian night heron (Nycticorax Caledonicus); -- called also quaker. NANNY Nan"ny, n. Defn: A diminutive of Ann or Anne, the proper name. Nanny goat, a female goat. [Colloq.] NANNYBERRY Nan"ny*ber`ry, n. (Bot.) Defn: See Sheepberry. NANPIE Nan"pie, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: The magpie. NAOS Na"os, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Arch.) Defn: A term used by modern archæologists instead of cella. See Cella. NAP Nap, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Napped; p. pr. & vb. n. Napping.] Etym: [OE. nappen, AS. hn&ppian to take a nap, to slumber; cf. AS. hnipian to bend one's self, Icel. hnipna, hnipa, to droop.] 1. To have a short sleep; to be drowsy; to doze. Chaucer. 2. To be in a careless, secure state. Wyclif. I took thee napping, unprepared. Hudibras. NAP Nap, n. Defn: A short sleep; a doze; a siesta. Cowper. NAP Nap, n. Etym: [OE. noppe, AS. hnoppa; akin to D. nop, Dan. noppe, LG. nobbe.] 1. Woolly or villous surface of felt, cloth, plants, etc.; an external covering of down, of short fine hairs or fibers forming part of the substance of anything, and lying smoothly in one direction; the pile; -- as, the nap of cotton flannel or of broadcloth. 2. pl. Defn: The loops which are cut to make the pile, in velvet. Knight. NAP Nap, v. t. Defn: To raise, or put, a nap on. NAPE Nape, n. Etym: [Perh. akin to knap a knop.] Defn: The back part of the neck. Spenser. NAPE-CREST Nape"-crest`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: An African bird of the genus Schizorhis, related to the plantain eaters. NAPERY Na"per*y, n.; pl. Naperies. Etym: [OF. naperie, fr. nape a tablecloth, F. nappe, LL. napa, fr. L. mappa. See Map, and cf. Apron, Napkin.] Defn: Table linen; also, linen clothing, or linen in general. [Obs.] Gayton. NAPHA WATER Na"pha wa`ter. Etym: [Sp. nafa, from Ar. napha odor.] Defn: A perfume distilled from orange flowers. NAPHEW Na"phew, n. (Bot.) Defn: See Navew. NAPHTHA Naph"tha, n. Etym: [L. naphtha, Gr. nafth, nifth.] 1. (Chem.) Defn: The complex mixture of volatile, liquid, inflammable hydrocarbons, occurring naturally, and usually called crude petroleum, mineral oil, or rock oil. Specifically: That portion of the distillate obtained in the refinement of petroleum which is intermediate between the lighter gasoline and the heavier benzine, and has a specific gravity of about 0.7, -- used as a solvent for varnishes, as a carburetant, illuminant, etc. 2. (Chem.) Defn: One of several volatile inflammable liquids obtained by the distillation of certain carbonaceous materials and resembling the naphtha from petroleum; as, Boghead naphtha, from Boghead coal (obtained at Boghead, Scotland); crude naphtha, or light oil, from coal tar; wood naphtha, from wood, etc. Note: This term was applied by the earlier chemical writers to a number of volatile, strong smelling, inflammable liquids, chiefly belonging to the ethers, as the sulphate, nitrate, or acetate of ethyl. Watts. Naphtha vitrioli Etym: [NL., naphtha of vitriol] (Old Chem.), common ethyl ether; -- formerly called sulphuric ether. See Ether. NAPHTHALATE Naph"tha*late, n. (Chem.) Defn: A salt of naphthalic acid; a phthalate. [Obs.] NAPHTHALENE Naph"tha*lene, n. (Chem.) Defn: A white crystalline aromatic hydrocarbon, C10H8, analogous to benzene, and obtained by the distillation of certain bituminous materials, such as the heavy oil of coal tar. It is the type and basis of a large number of derivatives among organic compounds. Formerly called also naphthaline. Naphthalene red (Chem.), a dyestuff obtained from certain diazo derivatives of naphthylamine, and called also magdala red. -- Naphthalene yellow (Chem.), a yellow dyestuff obtained from certain nitro derivatives of naphthol. NAPHTHALENIC Naph`tha*len"ic, a. (Chem.) Defn: Pertaining to , or derived from, naphthalene; -- used specifically to designate a yellow crystalline substance, called naphthalenic acid and also hydroxy quinone, and obtained from certain derivatives of naphthol. NAPHTHALIC Naph*tha"lic, a. (Chem.) (a) Pertaining to, derived from, or related to, naphthalene; -- used specifically to denote any one of a series of acids derived from naphthalene, and called naphthalene acids. (b) Formerly, designating an acid probably identical with phthalic acid. NAPHTHALIDINE Naph*thal"i*dine, n. Etym: [Naphthalene + toluidine.] (Chem.) Defn: Same as Naphthylamine. NAPHTHALIN; NAPHTHALINE Naph"tha*lin, Naph"tha*line, n. Etym: [F. naphthaline.] (Chem.) Defn: See Naphthalene. NAPHTHALIZE Naph"tha*lize, v. t. (Chem.) Defn: To mingle, saturate, or impregnate, with naphtha. NAPHTHAZARIN Naph*thaz"a*rin, n. Etym: [Naphthalene + alizarin.] (Chem.) Defn: A dyestuff, resembling alizarin, obtained from naphthoquinone as a red crystalline substance with a bright green, metallic luster; -- called also naphthalizarin. NAPHTHENE Naph"thene, n. (Chem.) Defn: A peculiar hydrocarbon occuring as an ingredient of Caucasian petroleum. NAPHTHIDE Naph"thide, n. (Chem.) Defn: A compound of naphthalene or its radical with a metallic element; as, mercuric