[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

2. (Astron.) (a) The fourth of the twelve signs of the zodiac. The first point is the northern limit of the sun's course in summer; hence, the sign of the summer solstice. See Tropic. (b) A northern constellation between Gemini and Leo. 3. (Med.) Defn: Formerly, any malignant growth, esp. one attended with great pain and ulceration, with cachexia and progressive emaciation. It was so called, perhaps, from the great veins which surround it, compared by the ancients to the claws of a crab. The term it now restricted to such a growth made up of aggregations of epithelial cells, either without support or embedded in the meshes of a trabecular framework. Note: Four kinds of cancers are recognized: (1) Epithelial cancer, or Epithelioma, in which there is no trabecular framework. See Epithelioma. (2) Scirrhous cancer, or Hard cancer, in which the framework predominates, and the tumor is of hard consistence and slow growth. (3) Encephaloid, Medullary, or Soft cancer, in which the cellular element predominates, and the tumor is soft, grows rapidy, and often ulcerates. (4) Colloid cancer, in which the cancerous structure becomes gelatinous. The last three varieties are also called carcinoma. Cancer cells, cells once believed to be peculiar to cancers, but now know to be epithelial cells differing in no respect from those found elsewhere in the body, and distinguished only by peculiarity of location and grouping. -- Cancer root (Bot.), the name of several low plants, mostly parasitic on roots, as the beech drops, the squawroot, etc. -- Tropic of Cancer. See Tropic. CANCERATE Can"cer*ate, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Cancerated.] Etym: [LL. canceratus eaten by a cancer. See Cancer.] Defn: To grow into a canser; to become cancerous. Boyle. CANCERATION Can`cer*a"tion, n. Defn: The act or state of becoming cancerous or growing into a cancer. CANCERITE Can"cer*ite, n. Etym: [Cf. F. cancéreux.] Defn: Like a cancer; having the qualities or virulence of a cancer; affected with cancer. "Cancerous vices." G. Eliot. -- Can"cer*ous*ly, adv. -- Can"cer*ous*ness, n. CANCEROUS Can"cer*ous, a. [Cf. F. cancéreux] Defn: Like a cancer; having the qualities or virulence of a cancer; affected with cancer. "cancerous vices" G. Eliot. [1913 Webster] -- Can"cer*ous*ly, adv. --Can"cer*ous*ness, n. CANCRIFORM Can"cri*form, a. Etym: [Cancer + -form; cf. F. cancriforme.] 1. Having the form of, or resembling, a crab; crab-shaped. 2. Like a cancer; cancerous. CANCRINE Can"crine, a. Etym: [From Cancer.] Defn: Having the qualities of a crab; crablike. CANCRINITE Can"cri*nite, n. Etym: [Named after Count Cancrin, a minister of finance in Russia.] (Min.) Defn: A mineral occurring in hexagonal crystals, also massive, generally of a yellow color, containing silica, alumina, lime, soda, and carbon dioxide. CANCROID Can"croid, a. Etym: [Cancer + oid.] 1. (Zoöl.) Defn: Resembling a crab; pertaining to the Cancroidea, one of the families of crabs, including the genus Cancer. 2. Like a cancer; as, a cancroid tumor. CAND Cand, n. Defn: Fluor spar. See Kand. CANDELABRUM Can`de*la"brum n.; pl. L. Candelabra, E. Candelabrums. Etym: [L., fr. candela candle. See candle.] 1. (Antiq.) (a) A lamp stand of any sort. (b) A highly ornamented stand of marble or other ponderous material, usually having three feet, -- frequently a votive offering to a temple. 2. A large candlestick, having several branches. CANDENT Can`dent, a. Etym: [L. candens, p. pr. of candëre to glitter. See Candid.] Defn: Heated to whiteness; glowing with heat. "A candent vessel." Boyle. CANDEROS Can"de*ros, n. Defn: An East Indian resin, of a pellucid white color, from which small ornaments and toys are sometimes made. CANDESCENCE Can*des"cence, n. Defn: See Inclandescence. CANDESCENT Can*des"cent, a. [L. candescens, -entis, p. pr. of candescere, v. incho. fr. candere to shine.] Defn: Glowing; luminous; incandescent. CANDICANT Can"di*cant, a. Etym: [L. candicans, p. pr. of candicare to be whitish.] Defn: Growing white. [Obs.] CANDID Can*did, a. Etym: [F. candide (cf. It. candido), L. candidus white, fr. candëre to be of a glowing white; akin to accend, incend, to set on fire, Skr. chand to shane. Cf. Candle, Incense.] 1. White. [Obs.] The box receives all black; but poured from thence, The stones came candid forth, the hue of innocence. Dryden. 2. Free from undue bias; disposed to think and judge according to truth and justice, or without partiality or prejudice; fair; just; impartial; as, a candid opinion. "Candid and dispassionate men." W. Irving. 3. Open; frank; ingenuous; outspoken. Syn. -- Fair; open; ingenuous; impartial; just; frank; artless; unbiased; equitable. -- Candid, Fair, Open, Frank, Ingenuous. A man is fair when he puts things on a just or equitable footing; he is candid when be looks impartially on both sides of a subject, doing justice especially to the motives and conduct of an opponent; he is open and frank when he declares his sentiments without reserve; he is ingenuous when he does this from a noble regard for truth. Fair dealing; candid investigation; an open temper; a frank disposition; an ingenuous answer or declaration. CANDIDACY Can"di*da*cy, n. Defn: The position of a candidate; state of being a candidate; candidateship. CANDIDATE Can"di*date, n. Etym: [L. Candidatus, n. (because candidates for office in Rome were clothed in a white toga.) fr. candidatus clothed in white, fr. candiduslittering, white: cf. F. candidat.] Defn: One who offers himself, or is put forward by others, as a suitable person or an aspirant or contestant for an office, privilege, or honor; as, a candidate for the office of governor; a candidate for holy orders; a candidate for scholastic honors. CANDIDATESHIP Can"di*date*ship, n. Defn: Candidacy. CANDIDATING Can"di*da`ting, n. Defn: The taking of the position of a candidate; specifically, the preaching of a clergyman with a view to settlement. [Cant, U. S.] CANDIDATURE Can"di*da*ture, n. Defn: Candidacy. CANDIDLY Can"did*ly, adv. Defn: In a candid manner. CANDIDNESS Can"did*ness, n. Defn: The quality of being candid. CANDIED Can"died, a. Etym: [From 1st Candy.] 1. Preserved in or with sugar; incrusted with a candylike substance; as, candied fruits. 2. (a) Converted wholly or partially into sugar or candy; as candied sirup. (b) Conted or more or less with sugar; as, candidied raisins. (c) Figuratively; Honeyed; sweet; flattering. Let the candied tongue lick absurd pomp. Shak. 3. Covered or incrusted with that which resembles sugar or candy. Will the cold brook, Candiedwith ice, caudle thy morning tast Shak. CANDIFY Can"di*fy, v. t. or v. i. Etym: [L. candificare; candëre to be white + -facere to make.] Defn: To make or become white, or candied. [R.] CANDIOT Can"di*ot, a. Etym: [Cf. F. candiote.] Defn: Of or pertaining to Candia; Cretary. CANDITE Can"dite, n. (Min.) Defn: A variety of spinel, of a dark color, found at Candy, in Ceylon. CANDLE Can"dle, n. Etym: [OE. candel, candel, AS, candel, fr. L. candela a (white) light made of wax or tallow, fr. candëre to be white. See Candid, and cf. Chandler, Cannel, Kindle.] 1. A slender, cylindrical body of tallow, containing a wick composed of loosely twisted linen of cotton threads, and used to furnish light. How far that little candle throws his beams! So shines a good deed in a naughty world. Shak. Note: Candles are usually made by repeatedly dipping the wicks in the melted tallow, etc. ("dipped candles"), or by casting or running in a mold. 2. That which gives light; a luminary. By these blessed candles of the night. Shak. Candle nut, the fruit of a euphorbiaceous shrub (Aleurites triloba), a native of some of the Pacific islands; -- socalled because, when dry, it will burn with a bright flame, and is used by the natives as a candle. The oil has many uses. -- Candle power (Photom.), illuminating power, as of a lamp, or gas flame, reckoned in terms of the light of a standard candle. Electric candle, A modification of the electric arc lamp, in which the carbon rods, instead of being placed end to end, are arranged side by side, and at a distance suitable for the formation of the arc at the tip; - - called also, from the name of the inventor, Jablockoff candle. -- Excommunication by inch of candle, a form of excommunication in which the offender is allowed time to repent only while a candle burns. -- Not worth the candle, not worth the cost or trouble. -- Rush candle, a candle made of the pith of certain rushes, peeled except on one side, and dipped in grease. -- Sale by inch of candle, an auction in which persons are allowed to bid only till a small piece of candle burns out. -- Standard candle (Photom.), a special form of candle employed as a standard in photometric measurements; usually, a candle of spermaceti so constructed as to burn at the rate of 120 grains, or 7.8 grams, per hour. -- To curse by bell, book and candle. See under Bell. CANDLEBERRY TREE Can"dle*ber`ry tree. (Bot.) Defn: A shrub (the Myrica cerifera, or wax-bearing myrtle), common in North America, the little nuts of which are covered with a greenish white wax, which was formerly, used for hardening candles; -- also called