[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

court on a special case. Wharton. CONSULTATION Con`sul*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. consultatio: cf. F. consultation.] 1. The act of consulting or conferring; deliberation of two or more persons on some matter, with a view to a decision. Thus they doubtful consultations dark Ended. Milton. 2. A council or conference, as of physicians, held to consider a special case, or of lawyers restained in a cause. Writ of consultation (Law), a writ by which a cause, improperly removed by prohibition from one court to another, is returned to the court from which it came; -- so called because the judges, on consultation, find the prohibition ill-founded. CONSULTATIVE Con*sult"a*tive, a. Defn: Pertaining to consultation; having the privilege or right of conference. "A consultative . . . power." Abp. Bramhall. CONSULTATORY Con*sult"a*to*ry, a. Defn: Formed by, or resulting from, consultation; advisory. Bancroft. CONSULTER Con*sult"er, n. Defn: One who consults, or asks counsel or information. CONSULTING Con*sult"ing, a. Defn: That consults. Consulting physician (Med.), a physician who consults with the attending practitioner regarding any case of disease. CONSULTIVE Con*sult"ive, a. Defn: Determined by, or pertaining to, consultation; deliberate; consultative. He that remains in the grace of God sins not by any deliberative, consultive, knowing act. Jer. Taylor. CONSUMABLE Con*sum"a*ble, a. Defn: Capable of being consumed; that may be destroyed, dissipated, wasted, or spent. "Consumable commodities." Locke. CONSUME Con*sume", v. t. [imp. & p.p. Consumed; p.pr. & vb.n. Consuming.] Etym: [L. consumere to take wholly or complectely, to consume; con- + sumere to take; sub + emere to buv. See Redeem.] Defn: To destroy, as by decomposition, dissipation, waste, or fire; to use up; to expend; to waste; to burn up; to eat up; to devour. If he were putting to my house the brand That shall consume it. Shak. Lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust doth consume. Matt. vi. 20 (Rev. Ver. ). Let me alone . . . that I may consume them. Ex. xxxii. 10. Syn. -- To destroy; swallow up; ingulf; absorb; waste; exhaust; spend; expend; squander; lavish; dissipate. CONSUME Con*sume", v. i. Defn: To waste away slowly. Therefore, let Renedick, like covered fire, Consume away in sighs. Shak. CONSUMEDLY Con*sum"ed*ly, adv. Defn: Excessively. [Low] He's so consumedly pround of it. Thackeray. CONSUMER Con*sum"er, n. Defn: One who, or that which, consumes; as, the consumer of food. CONSUMER'S GOODS Con*sum"er's goods. (Polit. Econ.) Defn: Economic goods that directly satisfy human wants or desires, such as food, clothes, pictures, etc.; -- called also consumption goods, or goods of the first order, and opposed to producer's goods. CONSUMER'S SURPLUS Consumer's surplus. (Polit. econ.) Defn: The excess that a purchaser would be willing to pay for a commodity over that he does pay, rather than go without the commodity; -- called also consumer's rent. The price which a person pays for a thing can never exceed, and seldom comes up to, that which he would be willing to pay rather than go without it. . . . The excess of the price which he would be willing to pay rather than go without it, over that which he actually does pay, is the economic measure of this surplus satisfaction. It has some analogies to a rent; but is perhaps best called simply consumer's surplus. Alfred Marshall. CONSUMINGLY Con*sum"ing*ly, adv. Defn: In a consuming manner. CONSUMMATE Con*sum"mate, a. Etym: [L. consummatus, p.p. or consummare to accomplish, sum up; con- + summa sum. See Sum.] Defn: Carried to the utmost extent or degree; of the highest quality; complete; perfect. "A man of perfect and consummate virtue." Addison. The little band held the post with consummate tenacity. Motley CONSUMMATE Con"sum*mate, v. t. [imp & p. p. Consummated; p. pr & vb. n. Consummating.] Defn: To bring to completion; to raise to the highest point or degree; to complete; to finish; to perfect; to achieve. To consummate this business happily. Shak. CONSUMMATELY Con*sum"mate*ly, adv. Defn: In a consummate manner; completely. T. Warton. CONSUMMATION Con`sum*ma"tion, n. Etym: [L. consummatio.] Defn: The act of consummating, or the state of being consummated; completed; completion; perfection; termination; end (as of the world or of life). "Tis a consummation Devoutly to be wished. Shak. From its original to its consummation. Addison. Quiet consummation have, And renownShak. Consummation of marrige, completion of the connubial relation by actual cohabition. CONSUMMATIVE Con*sum"ma*tive, a. Defn: Serving to consummate; completing. "The final, the consummative procedure of philosophy." Sir W. Hamilton. CONSUMPTION Con*sump"tion, n.. Etym: [L. consumptio: cf. F. consomption.] 1. The act or process of consuming by use, waste, etc.; decay; destruction. Every new advance of the price to the consumer is a new incentive to him to retrench the quality of his consumption. Burke. 2. The state or process of being consumed, wasted, or diminished; waste; diminution; loss; decay. 3. (Med.) Defn: A progressive wasting away of the body; esp., that form of wasting, attendant upon pulmonary phthisis and associated with cough, spitting of blood, hectic fever, etc.; pulmonary phthisis; -- called also pulmonary consumption. Consumption of the bowels (Med.), inflammation and ulceration of the intestines from tubercular disease. Syn. -- Decline; waste; decay. See Decline. CONSUMPTIVE Con*sump"tive, a. Etym: [Cf. F. consomptif.] 1. Of or pertaining to consumption; having the quality of consuming, or dissipating; destructive; wasting. It [prayer] is not consumptive or our time. Sharp. A long consumptive war. Addison. 2. (Med.) Defn: Affected with, or inclined to, consumption. The lean, consumptive wench, with coughs decayed. Dryden. CONSUMPTIVE Con*sump"tive, n. Defn: One affected with consumption; as, a resort for consumptives. CONSUMPTIVELY Con*sump"tive*ly, adv. Defn: In a way tending to or indication consumption. Beddoes. CONSUMPTIVENESS Con*sump"tive*ness, n. Defn: A state of being consumptive, or a tendency to a consumption. CONTABESCENT Con`ta*bes"cent, a. Etym: [L. contabescenc, p.pr. of contabescere.] Defn: Wasting away gradually. Darwin. - Con*ta*bes"cence, n. CONTACT Con"tact, n. Etym: [L. contactus, fr. contingere, -tactum, to touch on all sides. See Contingent.] 1. A close union or junction of bodies; a touching or meeting. 2. (Geom.) Defn: The property of two curves, or surfaces, which meet, and at the point of meeting have a common direction. 3. (Mining) Defn: The plane between two adjacent bodies of dissimilar rock. Raymond. Contact level, a delicate level so pivoted as to tilt when two parts of a measuring apparatus come into contact with each other; -- used in precise determinations of lengths and in the accurate graduation of instruments. CONTACTION Con*tac"tion, n. Defn: Act of touching. [Obs.] CONTAGION Con*ta"gion, n. Etym: [L. contagio: cf. F. contagion. See Contact.] 1. (Med.) Defn: The transmission of a disease from one person to another, by direct or indirect contact. Note: The term has been applied by some to the action of miasmata arising from dead animal or vegetable matter, bogs, fens, etc., but in this sense it is now abandoned. Dunglison. And will he steal out of his wholesome bed To dare the vile contagion of the night Shak. 2. That which serves as a medium or agency to transmit disease; a virus produced by, or exhalation proceeding from, a diseased person, and capable of reproducing the disease. 3. The act or means of communicating any influence to the mind or heart; as, the contagion of enthusiasm. "The contagion of example." Eikon Basilike. When lust . . . Lets in defilement to the inward parts, The soul grows clotted by contagion. Milton. 4. Venom; poison. [Obs.] "I'll touch my point with this contagion." Shak. Syn. -- See Infection. CONTAGIONED Con*ta"gioned, a. Defn: Affected by contagion. CONTAGIONIST Con*ta"gion*ist, n. Defn: One who believes in the contagious character of certain diseases, as of yellow fever. CONTAGIOUS Con*ta"gious, a. Etym: [L. contagiosus: cf. F. contagieux.] 1. (Med.) Defn: Communicable by contact, by a virus, or by a bodily exhalation; catching; as, a contagious disease. 2. Conveying or generating disease; pestilential; poisonous; as, contagious air. 3. Spreading or communicable from one to another; exciting similar emotions or conduct in others. His genius rendered his courage more contagious. Wirt. The spirit of imitation is contagious. Ames. Syn. -- Contagious, Infectious. These words have been used in very diverse senses; but, in general, a contagious disease has considered as one which is caught from another by contact, by the breath, by bodily effluvia, etc.; while an infectious disease supposes some entirely different cause acting by a hidden influence, like the miasma of prison ships, of marshes, etc., infecting the system with disease. "This distinction, though not universally admitted by medical men, as to the literal meaning, of the words, certainly applies to them in their figurative use. Thus we speak of the contagious influence of evil associates; their contagion of bad example, the contagion of fear, etc., when we refer to transmission by proximity or contact. On the other hand, we speak of infection by bad principles, etc., when we consider anything as diffused by some hidden influence. CONTAGIOUS DISEASE Con*ta"gious dis*ease". (Med.) Defn: A disease communicable by contact with a patient suffering from it, or with some secretion of, or object