[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

the trump. She would not play, yet must not pass. Prior. To bring to pass, To come to pass. See under Bring, and Come. -- To pass away, to disappear; to die; to vanish. "The heavens shall pass away." 2 Pet. iii. 10. "I thought to pass away before, but yet alive I am." Tennyson. -- To pass by, to go near and beyond a certain person or place; as, he passed by as we stood there. -- To pass into, to change by a gradual transmission; to blend or unite with. -- To pass on, to proceed. -- To pass on or upon. (a) To happen to; to come upon; to affect. "So death passed upon all men." Rom. v. 12. "Provided no indirect act pass upon our prayers to define them." Jer. Taylor. (b) To determine concerning; to give judgment or sentence upon. "We may not pass upon his life." Shak. -- To pass off, to go away; to cease; to disappear; as, an agitation passes off. -- To pass over, to go from one side or end to the other; to cross, as a river, road, or bridge. PASS Pass, v. t. 1. In simple, transitive senses; as: (a) To go by, beyond, over, through, or the like; to proceed from one side to the other of; as, to pass a house, a stream, a boundary, etc. (b) Hence: Defn: To go from one limit to the other of; to spend; to live through; to have experience of; to undergo; to suffer. "To pass commodiously this life." Milton. She loved me for the dangers I had passed. Shak. (c) To go by without noticing; to omit attention to; to take no note of; to disregard. Please you that I may pass This doing. Shak. I pass their warlike pomp, their proud array. Dryden. (d) To transcend; to surpass; to excel; to exceed. And strive to pass . . . Their native music by her skillful art. Spenser. Whose tender power Passes the strength of storms in their most desolate hour. Byron. (e) To go successfully through, as an examination, trail, test, etc.; to obtain the formal sanction of, as a legislative body; as, he passed his examination; the bill passed the senate. 2. In causative senses: as: (a) To cause to move or go; to send; to transfer from one person, place, or condition to another; to transmit; to deliver; to hand; to make over; as, the waiter passed bisquit and cheese; the torch was passed from hand to hand. I had only time to pass my eye over the medals. Addison. Waller passed over five thousand horse and foot by Newbridge. Clarendon. (b) To cause to pass the lips; to utter; to pronounce; hence, to promise; to pledge; as, to pass sentence. Shak. Father, thy word is passed. Milton. (c) To cause to advance by stages of progress; to carry on with success through an ordeal, examination, or action; specifically, to give legal or official sanction to; to ratify; to enact; to approve as valid and just; as, he passed the bill through the committee; the senate passed the law. (e) To put in circulation; to give currency to; as, to pass counterfeit money. "Pass the happy news." Tennyson. (f) To cause to obtain entrance, admission, or conveyance; as, to pass a person into a theater, or over a railroad. 3. To emit from the bowels; to evacuate. 4. (Naut.) Defn: To take a turn with (a line, gasket, etc.), as around a sail in furling, and make secure. 5. (Fencing) Defn: To make, as a thrust, punto, etc. Shak. Passed midshipman. See under Midshipman. -- To pass a dividend, to omit the declaration and payment of a dividend at the time when due. -- To pass away, to spend; to waste. "Lest she pass away the flower of her age." Ecclus. xlii. 9. -- To pass by. (a) To disregard; to neglect. (b) To excuse; to spare; to overlook. -- To pass off, to impose fraudulently; to palm off. "Passed himself off as a bishop." Macaulay. -- To pass (something) on or upon (some one), to put upon as a trick or cheat; to palm off. "She passed the child on her husband for a boy." Dryden. -- To pass over, to overlook; not to note or resent; as, to pass over an affront. PASS Pass, n. Etym: [Cf. F. pas (for sense 1), and passe, fr. passer to pass. See Pass, v. i.] 1. An opening, road, or track, available for passing; especially, one through or over some dangerous or otherwise impracticable barrier; a passageway; a defile; a ford; as, a mountain pass. "Try not the pass!" the old man said. Longfellow. 2. (Fencing) Defn: A thrust or push; an attempt to stab or strike an adversary. Shak. 3. A movement of the hand over or along anything; the manipulation of a mesmerist. 4. (Rolling Metals) Defn: A single passage of a bar, rail, sheet, etc., between the rolls. 5. State of things; condition; predicament. Have his daughters brought him to this pass. Shak. Matters have been brought to this pass. South. 6. Permission or license to pass, or to go and come; a psssport; a ticket permitting free transit or admission; as, a railroad or theater pass; a military pass. A ship sailing under the flag and pass of an enemy. Kent. 7. Fig.: a thrust; a sally of wit. Shak. 8. Estimation; character. [Obs.] Common speech gives him a worthy pass. Shak. 9. Etym: [Cf. Passus.] Defn: A part; a division. [Obs.] Chaucer. Pass boat (Naut.), a punt, or similar boat. -- Pass book. (a) A book in which a trader enters articles bought on credit, and then passes or sends it to the purchaser. (b) See Bank book. -- Pass box (Mil.), a wooden or metallic box, used to carry cartridges from the service magazine to the piece. -- Pass check, a ticket of admission to a place of entertainment, or of readmission for one who goes away in expectation of returning. PASSABLE Pass"a*ble, a. Etym: [Cf. F. passable.] 1. Capable of being passed, traveled, navigated, traversed, penetrated, or the like; as, the roads are not passable; the stream is passablein boats. His body's a passable carcass if it be not hurt; it is a throughfare for steel. Shak. 2. Capable of being freely circulated or disseminated; acceptable; generally receivable; current. With men as with false money -- one piece is more or less passable than another. L'Estrange. Could they have made this slander passable. Collier. 3. Such as may be allowed to pass without serious objection; tolerable; admissable; moderate; mediocre. My version will appear a passable beauty when the original muse is absent. Dryden. PASSABLENESS Pass"a*ble*ness, n. Defn: The quality of being passable. PASSABLY Pass"a*bly, adv. Defn: Tolerably; moderately. PASSACAGLIA; PASSACAGLIO Pas`sa*ca*glia, Pas`sa*ca*glio, n. Etym: [Sp. pasacalle a certain tune on the guitar, prop., a tune played in passing through the streets.] (Mus.) Defn: An old Italian or Spanish dance tune, in slow three-four measure, with divisions on a ground bass, resembling a chaconne. PASSADE; PASSADO Pas*sade", Pas*sa"do, n. Etym: [F. passade; cf. Sp. pasada. See Pass, v. i.] 1. (Fencing) Defn: A pass or thrust. Shak. 2. (Man.) Defn: A turn or course of a horse backward or forward on the same spot of ground. PASSAGE Pas"sage, n. Etym: [F. passage. See Pass, v. i.] 1. The act of passing; transit from one place to another; movement from point to point; a going by, over, across, or through; as, the passage of a man or a carriage; the passage of a ship or a bird; the passage of light; the passage of fluids through the pores or channels of the body. What! are my doors opposed against my passage! Shak. 2. Transit by means of conveyance; journey, as by water, carriage, car, or the like; travel; right, liberty, or means, of passing; conveyance. The ship in which he had taken passage. Macaulay. 3. Price paid for the liberty to pass; fare; as, to pay one's passage. 4. Removal from life; decease; departure; death. [R.] "Endure thy mortal passage." Milton. When he is fit and season'd for his passage. Shak. 5. Way; road; path; channel or course through or by which one passes; way of exit or entrance; way of access or transit. Hence, a common avenue to various apartments in a building; a hall; a corridor. And with his pointed dart Explores the nearest passage to his heart. Dryden. The Persian army had advanced into the . . . passages of Cilicia. South. 6. A continuous course, process, or progress; a connected or continuous series; as, the passage of time. The conduct and passage of affairs. Sir J. Davies. The passage and whole carriage of this action. Shak. 7. A separate part of a course, process, or series; an occurrence; an incident; an act or deed. "In thy passages of life." Shak. The . . . almost incredible passage