[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

and Charta Ottonis de Benthem, ann. ligius homo quod Teutonicè dicitur ledigman," i. e., uni soli homagio obligatus, free from all obligations to others; influenced by L.ligare to bind. G. ledig perh. orig. meant, free to go where one pleases, and is perh. akin to E.lead to conduct. Cf. Lead to guide.] 1. Sovereign; independent; having authority or right to allegiance; as, a liege lord. Chaucer. She looked as grand as doomsday and as grave; And he, he reverenced his liege lady there. Tennyson. 2. serving an independent sovereign or master; bound by a feudal tenure; obliged to be faithful and loyal to a superior, as a vassal to his lord; faithful; loyal; as, a liege man; a liege subject. 3. (Old Law) Defn: Full; perfect; complete; pure. Burrill. Liege homage (Feudal Custom), that homage of one sovereign or prince to another which acknowledged an obligation of fealty and services. -- Liege poustie Etym: [L. legitima potestas] (Scots Law), perfect, i. e., legal, power; specif., having health requisite to do legal acts. -- Liege widowhood, perfect, i. e., pure, widowhood. [Obs.] LIEGE Liege, n. 1. A free and independent person; specif., a lord paramount; a sovereign. Mrs. Browning. The anointed sovereign of sighs and groans, Liege of all loiterers and malcontents. Shak. 2. The subject of a sovereign or lord; a liegeman. A liege lord seems to have been a lord of a free band; and his lieges, though serving under him, were privileged men, free from all other obligations, their name being due to their freedom, not to their service. Skeat. LIEGEMAN Liege"man, n.; pl. Liegemen (. Defn: Same as Liege, n., 2. Chaucer. Spenser. LIEGER Lie"ger, n. Etym: [See Leger, Ledger.] Defn: A resident ambassador. [Obs.] See Leger. Denham. LIEGIANCY Lie"gian*cy, n. Defn: See Ligeance. LIEN Li"en, obs. p. p. Defn: of Lie. See lain. Ps. lxviii. 13. LIEN Lien, n. Etym: [F. lien band, bond, tie, fr. L. ligamen, fr. ligare to bind. Cf. League a union, Leam a string, Leamer, Ligament.] (Law) Defn: A legal claim; a charge upon real or personal property for the satisfaction of some debt or duty; a right in one to control or hold and retain the property of another until some claim of the former is paid or satisfied. LIENAL Li*e"nal, a. Etym: [L. lien the spleen.] (Anat.) Defn: Of or pertaining to the spleen; splenic. LIENCULUS Li*en"cu*lus, n.; pl. Lienculi. Etym: [NL., dim. of L. lien the spleen.] (Anat.) Defn: One of the small nodules sometimes found in the neighborhood of the spleen; an accessory or supplementary spleen. LIENO-INTESTINAL Li*e`no-in*tes"ti*nal, a. Etym: [l. lien the spleen + E. intestinal.] (Anat.) Defn: Of or pertaining to the spleen and intestine; as, the lieno- intestinal vein of the frog. LIENTERIC Li`en*ter"ic, a. Etym: [L. lientericus, Gr. lientérique. See Lientery.] (Med.) Defn: Of or pertaining to, or of the nature of, a lientery. -- n. (Med.) Defn: A lientery. Grew. LIENTERY Li"en*ter*y, n. Etym: [Gr. lientérie.] (Med.) Defn: A diarrhea, in which the food is discharged imperfectly digested, or with but little change. Dunglison. LIER Li"er, n. Etym: [From Lie. ] Defn: One who lies down; one who rests or remains, as in concealment. There were liers in a ambush against him. Josh. viii. 14. LIERNE RIB Lierne" rib`. Etym: [F. lierne.] (Arch.) Defn: In Gothic vaulting, any rib which does not spring from the impost and is not a ridge rib, but passes from one boss or intersection of the principal ribs to another. LIEU Lieu, n. Etym: [F., OF. also liu, leu, lou, fr. L. locus place. See Local, Locus.] Defn: Place; room; stead; -- used only in the phrase in lieu of, that is, instead of. The plan of extortion had been adopted in lieu of the scheme of confiscation. Burke. LIEUTENANCY Lieu*ten"an*cy, n. 1. The office, rank, or commission, of a lieutenant. 2. The body of lieutenants or subordinates. [Obs.] The list of the lieutenancy of our metropolis. Felton. LIEUTENANT Lieu*ten"ant, n. Etym: [F., fr. lieu place + tenant holding, p. pr. of tenir to hold, L. tenere. See Lieu, and Tenant, and cf. Locum tenens.] 1. An officer who supplies the place of a superior in his absence; a representative of, or substitute for, another in the performance of any duty. The lawful magistrate, who is the vicegerent or lieutenant of God. Abp. Bramhall. 2. (a) A commissioned officer in the army, next below a captain. (b) A commissioned officer in the British navy, in rank next below a commander. (c) A commissioned officer in the United States navy, in rank next below a lieutenant commander. Note: Lieutenant is often used, either adjectively or in hyphened compounds, to denote an officer, in rank next below another, especially when the duties of the higher officer may devolve upon the lower one; as, lieutenant general, or lieutenant-general; lieutenant colonel, or lieutenant-colonel; lieutenant governor, etc. Deputy lieutenant, the title of any one of the deputies or assistants of the lord lieutenant of a county. [Eng.] -- Lieutenant colonel, an army officer next in rank above major, and below colonel. -- Lieutenant commander, an officer in the United States navy, in rank next below a commander and next above a lieutenant. -- Lieutenant general. See in Vocabulary. -- Lieutenant governor. (a) An officer of a State, being next in rank to the governor, and in case of the death or resignation of the latter, himself acting as governor. [U. S.] (b) A deputy governor acting as the chief civil officer of one of several colonies under a governor general. [Eng.] LIEUTENANT GENERAL Lieu*ten"ant gen"er*al Defn: . An army officer in rank next below a general and next above a major general. Note: In the United States, before the civil war, this rank had been conferred only on George Washington and (in brevet) on Winfield Scott. In 1864 it was revived by Congress and conferred on Ulysses S. Grant, and subsequently, by promotion, on William T. Sherman and Philip H. Sheridan, each of whom was advanced to the rank of general of the army. When Sheridan was made general (in 1888) the rank of lieutenant general was suffered to lapse. See General. LIEUTENANTRY Lieu*ten"ant*ry, n. Defn: See Lieutenancy. [Obs.] LIEUTENANTSHIP Lieu*ten"ant*ship, n. Defn: Same as Lieutenancy, 1. LIEVE Lieve, a. Defn: Same as Lief. LIF Lif, n. Etym: [Written also lief.] Defn: The fiber by which the petioles of the date palm are bound together, from which various kinds of cordage are made. LIFE Life, n.; pl. Lives. Etym: [AS. l; akin to D. lijf body, G. leib body, MHG. l life, body, OHG. l life, Icel. l, life, body, Sw. lif, Dan. liv, and E. live, v. Live, and cf. Alive.] 1. The state of being which begins with generation, birth, or germination, and ends with death; also, the time during which this state continues; that state of an animal or plant in which all or any of its organs are capable of performing all or any of their functions; -- used of all animal and vegetable organisms. 2. Of human being: The union of the soul and body; also, the duration of their union; sometimes, the deathless quality or existence of the soul; as, man is a creature having an immortal life. She shows a body rather than a life. Shak. 3. (Philos) Defn: The potential principle, or force, by which the organs of animals and plants are started and continued in the performance of their several and coöperative functions; the vital force, whether regarded as physical or spiritual. 4. Figuratively: The potential or animating principle, also, the period of duration, of anything that is conceived of as resembling a natural organism in structure or functions; as, the life of a state, a machine, or a book; authority is the life of government. 5. A certain way or manner of living with respect to conditions, circumstances, character, conduct, occupation, etc.; hence, human affairs; also, lives, considered collectively, as a distinct class or type; as, low life; a good or evil life; the life of Indians, or of miners. That which before us lies in daily life. Milton. By experience of life abroad in the world. Ascham. Lives of great men all remind us We can make our lives sublime. Longfellow. 'T is from high life high characters are drawn. Pope 6. Animation; spirit; vivacity; vigor; energy. No notion of life and fire in fancy and in words. Felton. That gives thy gestures grace and life. Wordsworth. 7. That which imparts or excites spirit or vigor; that upon which enjoyment or success depends; as, he was the life of the company, or of the enterprise. 8. The living or actual form, person, thing, or state; as, a picture or a description from, the life. 9. A person; a living being, usually a human being; as, many lives were sacrificed. 10. The system of animal nature; animals in general, or considered collectively. Full nature swarms with life. Thomson. 11. An essential constituent