[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

Defn: Probably, the baked berry of the hawthorn tree, that is, coarse fare. See 1st Haw, 2. [Obs.] Chaucer. HAWFINCH Haw"finch`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: The common European grosbeak (Coccothraustes vulgaris); -- called also cherry finch, and coble. HAW-HAW Haw-haw", n. Etym: [Duplication of haw a hedge.] Defn: See Ha-ha. HAWHAW Haw*haw", v. i. Etym: [Of imitative origin.] Defn: To laugh boisterously. [Colloq. U. S.] We haw-haw'd, I tell you, for more than half an hour. Major Jack Downing. HAWK Hawk, n. Etym: [OE. hauk (prob. fr. Icel.), havek, AS. hafoc, heafoc; akin to D. havik, OHG. habuh, G. habicht, Icel. haukr, Sw. hök, Dan. hög, prob. from the root of E. heave.] (Zoöl.) Defn: One of numerous species and genera of rapacious birds of the family Falconidæ. They differ from the true falcons in lacking the prominent tooth and notch of the bill, and in having shorter and less pointed wings. Many are of large size and grade into the eagles. Some, as the goshawk, were formerly trained like falcons. In a more general sense the word is not infrequently applied, also, to true falcons, as the sparrow hawk, pigeon hawk, duck hawk, and prairie hawk. Note: Among the common American species are the red-tailed hawk (Buteo borealis); the red-shouldered (B. lineatus); the broad-winged (B. Pennsylvanicus); the rough-legged (Archibuteo lagopus); the sharp-shinned Accipiter fuscus). See Fishhawk, Goshawk, Marsh hawk, under Marsh, Night hawk, under Night. Bee hawk (Zoöl.), the honey buzzard. -- Eagle hawk. See under Eagle. -- Hawk eagle (Zoöl.), an Asiatic bird of the genus Spizætus, or Limnætus, intermediate between the hawks and eagles. There are several species. -- Hawk fly (Zoöl.), a voracious fly of the family Asilidæ. See Hornet fly, under Hornet. -- Hawk moth. (Zoöl.) See Hawk moth, in the Vocabulary. -- Hawk owl. (Zoöl.) (a) A northern owl (Surnia ulula) of Europe and America. It flies by day, and in some respects resembles the hawks. (b) An owl of India (Ninox scutellatus). -- Hawk's bill (Horology), the pawl for the rack, in the striking mechanism of a clock. HAWK Hawk, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Hawked; p. pr. & vb. n. Hawking.] 1. To catch, or attempt to catch, birds by means of hawks trained for the purpose, and let loose on the prey; to practice falconry. A falconer Henry is, when Emma hawks. Prior. 2. To make an attack while on the wing; to soar and strike like a hawk; -- generally with at; as, to hawk at flies. Dryden. A falcon, towering in her pride of place, Was by a mousing owl hawked at and killed. Shak. HAWK Hawk, v. i. Etym: [W. hochi.] Defn: To clear the throat with an audible sound by forcing an expiratory current of air through the narrow passage between the depressed soft palate and the root of the tongue, thus aiding in the removal of foreign substances. HAWK Hawk, v. t. Defn: To raise by hawking, as phlegm. HAWK Hawk, n. Etym: [W. hoch.] Defn: An effort to force up phlegm from the throat, accompanied with noise. HAWK Hawk, v. t. Etym: [Akin to D. hauker a hawker, G. höken, höcken, to higgle, to retail, höke, höker, a higgler, huckster. See Huckster.] Defn: To offer for sale by outcry in the street; to carry (merchandise) about from place to place for sale; to peddle; as, to hawk goods or pamphlets. His works were hawked in every street. Swift. HAWK Hawk, n. (Masonry) Defn: A small board, with a handle on the under side, to hold mortar. Hawk boy, an attendant on a plasterer to supply him with mortar. HAWKBILL Hawk"bill`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: A sea turtle (Eretmochelys imbricata), which yields the best quality of tortoise shell; -- called also caret. HAWKBIT Hawk"bit`, n. (Bot.) Defn: The fall dandelion (Leontodon autumnale). HAWKED Hawked, a. Defn: Curved like a hawk's bill; crooked. HAWKER Hawk"er, n. Defn: One who sells wares by crying them in the street; hence, a peddler or a packman. HAWKER Hawk"er, v. i. Defn: To sell goods by outcry in the street. [Obs.] Hudibras. HAWKER Hawk"er, n. Etym: [Cf. AS. hafecere. See 1st Hawk.] Defn: A falconer. HAWKEY Hawk"ey, n. Defn: See Hockey. Holloway. HAWK-EYED Hawk"-eyed`, a. Defn: Having a keen eye; sharpsighted; discerning. HAWKEYE STATE Hawk"eye` State. Defn: Iowa; -- a nickname of obscure origin. HAWK MOTH Hawk" moth`. (Zoöl.) Defn: Any moth of the family Sphingidæ, of which there are numerous genera and species. They are large, handsome moths, which fly mostly at twilight and hover about flowers like a humming bird, sucking the honey by means of a long, slender proboscis. The larvæ are large, hairless caterpillars ornamented with green and other bright colors, and often with a caudal spine. See Sphinx, also Tobacco worm, and Tomato worm. Tobacco Hawk Moth (Macrosila Carolina), and its Larva, the Tobacco Worm. Note: The larvæ of several species of hawk moths feed on grapevines. The elm-tree hawk moth is Ceratomia Amyntor. HAWKWEED Hawk"weed`, n. (Bot.) (a) A plant of the genus Hieracium; -- so called from the ancient belief that birds of prey used its juice to strengthen their vision. (b) A plant of the genus Senecio (S. hieracifolius). Loudon. HAWM Hawm, n. Defn: See Haulm, straw. HAWM Hawm, v. i. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.] Defn: To lounge; to loiter. [Prov. Eng.] Tennyson. HAWSE Hawse, n. Etym: [Orig. a hawse hole, or hole in the ship; cf. Icel. hals, hals, neck, part of the bows of a ship, AS. heals neck. See Collar, and cf. Halse to embrace.] 1. A hawse hole. Harris. 2. (Naut.) (a) The situation of the cables when a vessel is moored with two anchors, one on the starboard, the other on the port bow. (b) The distance ahead to which the cables usually extend; as, the ship has a clear or open hawse, or a foul hawse; to anchor in our hawse, or athwart hawse. (c) That part of a vessel's bow in which are the hawse holes for the cables. Athwart hawse. See under Athwart. -- Foul hawse, a hawse in which the cables cross each other, or are twisted together. -- Hawse block, a block used to stop up a hawse hole at sea; -- called also hawse plug. -- Hawse hole, a hole in the bow of a ship, through which a cable passes. -- Hawse piece, one of the foremost timbers of a ship, through which the hawse hole is cut. -- Hawse plug. Same as Hawse block (above). -- To come in at the hawse holes, to enter the naval service at the lowest grade. [Cant] -- To freshen the hawse, to veer out a little more cable and bring the chafe and strain on another part. HAWSER Haws"er, n. Etym: [From F. hausser to hausserée towpath, towing, F. haussière hawser), LL. altiare, fr. L. altus high. See Haughty.] Defn: A large rope made of three strands each containing many yarns. Note: Three hawsers twisted together make a cable; but it nautical usage the distinction between cable and hawser is often one of size rather than of manufacture. Hawser iron, a calking iron. HAWSER-LAID Haws"er-laid`, a. Defn: Made in the manner of a hawser. Cf. Cable-laid, and see Illust. of Cordage. HAWTHORN Haw"thorn`, n. Etym: [AS. hagaborn, hæg. See Haw a hedge, and Thorn.] (Bot.) Defn: A thorny shrub or tree (the Cratægus oxyacantha), having deeply lobed, shining leaves, small, roselike, fragrant flowers, and a fruit called haw. It is much used in Europe for hedges, and for standards in gardens. The American hawthorn is Cratægus cordata, which has the leaves but little lobed. Gives not the hawthorn bush a sweeter shade To shepherds Shak. HAY Hay, n. Etym: [AS. hege: cf. F. haie, of German origin. See Haw a hedge, Hedge.] 1. A hedge. [Obs.] 2. A net set around the haunt of an animal, especially of a rabbit. Rowe. To dance the hay, to dance in a ring. Shak. HAY Hay, v. i. Defn: To lay snares for rabbits. Huloet. HAY Hay, n. Etym: [OE. hei, AS. h; akin to D. kooi, OHG. hewi, houwi, G. heu, Dan. & Sw. hö, Icel. hey, ha, Goth. hawi grass, fr. the root of E. hew. See Hew to cut. ] Defn: Grass cut and cured for fodder. Make hay while the sun shines. Camden. Hay may be dried too much as well as too little. C. L. Flint. Hay cap, a canvas covering for a haycock. -- Hay fever (Med.), nasal catarrh accompanied with fever, and sometimes with paroxysms of dyspnoea, to which some persons are subject in the spring and summer seasons. It has been attributed to the effluvium from hay, and to the pollen of certain plants. It is also called hay asthma, hay cold, and rose fever. -- Hay knife, a sharp instrument used in cutting hay out of a stack or mow. -- Hay press, a press for baling loose hay. -- Hay tea, the juice of hay extracted by boiling,