[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

point of the line its tangent is the direction of the resultant of all the forces. It cuts at right angles every equipotential surface which it meets. Specifically (Magnetism), a line in proximity to a magnet so drawn that any point in it is tangential with the direction of a short compass needle held at that point. Faraday. -- Line of life (Palmistry), a line on the inside of the hand, curving about the base of the thumb, supposed to indicate, by its form or position, the length of a person's life. -- Line of lines. See Gunter's line. -- Line of march. (Mil.) (a) Arrangement of troops for marching. (b) Course or direction taken by an army or body of troops in marching. -- Line of operations, that portion of a theater of war which an army passes over in attaining its object. H. W. Halleck. -- Line of sight (Firearms), the line which passes through the front and rear sight, at any elevation, when they are sighted at an object. -- Line tub (Naut.), a tub in which the line carried by a whaleboat is coiled. -- Mason and Dixon's line, the boundary line between Pennsylvania and Maryland, as run before the Revolution (1764-1767) by two English astronomers named Charles Mason and Jeremiah Dixon. In an extended sense, the line between the free and the slave States. -- On the line, on a level with the eye of the spectator; -- said of a picture, as hung in an exhibition of pictures. -- Right line a picture, as hung in an exhibition of pictures. -- Right line, a straight line; the shortest line that can be drawn between two points. -- Ship of the line, formerly, a ship of war large enough to have a place in the line of battle; a vessel superior to a frigate; usually, a seventy-four, or three-decker; -- called also line of battle ship. Totten. -- To cross the line, to cross the equator, as a vessel at sea. -- To give a person line, to allow him more or less liberty until it is convenient to stop or check him, like a hooked fish that swims away with the line. -- Water line (Shipbuilding), the outline of a horizontal section of a vessel, as when floating in the water. LINE Line, v. t. 1. To mark with a line or lines; to cover with lines; as, to line a copy book. He had a healthy color in his cheeks, and his face, though lined, bore few traces of anxiety. Dickens. 2. To represent by lines; to delineate; to portray. [R.] "Pictures fairest lined." Shak. 3. To read or repeat line by line; as, to line out a hymn. This custom of reading or lining, or, as it was frequently called "deaconing' the hymn or psalm in the churches, was brought about partly from necessity. N. D. Gould. 4. To form into a line; to align; as, to line troops. To line bees, to track wild bees to their nest by following their line of flight. -- To line up (Mach.), to put in alignment; to put in correct adjustment for smooth running. See 3d Line, 19. LINEAGE Lin"e*age, n. Etym: [OE. linage, F. lignage, fr. L. linea line. See 3d Line.] Defn: Descent in a line from a common progenitor; progeny; race; descending line of offspring or ascending line of parentage. Both the lineage and the certain sire From which I sprung, from me are hidden yet. Spenser. LINEAL Lin"e*al, a. Etym: [L. linealis belonging to a line, fr. linea line: cf. F. linéal. See 3d Line.] 1. Descending in a direct line from an ancestor; hereditary; derived from ancestors; -- opposed to collateral; as, a lineal descent or a lineal descendant. The prime and ancient right of lineal succession. Locke. 2. Inheriting by direct descent; having the right by direct descent to succeed (to). For only you are lineal to the throne. Dryden. 3. Composed of lines; delineated; as, lineal designs. 4. In the direction of a line; of a line; of or pertaining to a line; measured on, or ascertained by, a line; linear; as, lineal magnitude. Lineal measure, the measure of length; -- usually written linear measure. LINEALITY Lin`e*al"i*ty, n. Defn: The quality of being linea LINEALLY Lin"e*al*ly, adv. Defn: In a lineal manner; as, the prince is lineally descended from the Conqueror. LINEAMENT Lin"e*a*ment, n. Etym: [L. lineamentum, fr. linea line: cf. F. linéament. See 3d Line.] Defn: One of the outlines, exterior features, or distinctive marks, of a body or figure, particularly of the face; feature; form; mark; - - usually in the plural. "The lineaments of the body." Locke. "Lineaments in the character." Swift. Man he seems In all his lineaments. Milton. LINEAR Lin"e*ar, a. Etym: [L. linearis, linearius , fr. linea line: cf. F. linéaire. See 3d Line.] 1. Of or pertaining to a line; consisting of lines; in a straight direction; lineal. 2. (Bot.) Defn: Like a line; narrow; of the same breadth throughout, except at the extremities; as, a linear leaf. Linear differential (Math.), an equation which is of the first degree, when the expression which is equated to zero is regarded as a function of the dependent variable and its differential coefficients. -- Linear equation (Math.), an equation of the first degree between two variables; -- so called because every such equation may be considered as representing a right line. -- Linear measure, the measurement of length. -- Linear numbers (Math.), such numbers as have relation to length only: such is a number which represents one side of a plane figure. If the plane figure is square, the linear figure is called a root. -- Linear problem (Geom.), a problem which may be solved geometrically by the use of right lines alone. -- Linear transformation (Alg.), a change of variables where each variable is replaced by a function of the first degree in the new variable. LINEARENSATE Lin`e*ar*en"sate, a. (Bot.) Defn: Having the form of a sword, but very long and narrow. LINEARLY Lin"e*ar*ly, adv. Defn: In a linear manner; with lines. LINEAR-SHAPED Lin"e*ar-shaped`, a. Defn: Of a linear shape. LINEARY Lin"e*a*ry, a. Defn: Linear. Holland. LINEATE; LINEATED Lin"e*ate, Lin"e*a`ted, a. Etym: [L. lineatus, p. p. of lineare to reduce to a straight line, fr. linea line.] 1. (Zoöl.) Defn: Marked with lines. 2. (Bot.) Defn: Marked longitudinally with depressed parallel lines; as, a lineate leaf. LINEATION Lin`e*a"tion, n. Etym: [L. lineatio the drawing of a line, fr. lineare.] Defn: Delineation; a line or lines. LINEATURE Lin"e*a*ture, n. Defn: Anything having outline. [R.] Holland. LINEMAN Line"man, n.; pl. Linemen (. 1. One who carried the line in surveying, etc. 2. A man employed to examine the rails of a railroad to see if they are in good condition; also, a man employed to repair telegraph lines. LINEN Lin"en, a. Etym: [OE., fr. lin linen. See Linen, n. 1.] Defn: Made of linen; as, linen cloth; a linen stocking. 2. Resembling linen cloth; white; pale. LINEN Lin"en, n. Etym: [Prop. an adj. from OE. lin. flax, AS. lin flax, whence linen made of flax; akin to OS., Icel., & MHG. lin flax and linen, G. lein, leinen, linen, Sw. lin flax, Goth. lein linen, L. linum flax, linen, Gr. Line, Linseed.] 1. Thread or cloth made of flax or (rarely) of hemp; -- used in a general sense to include cambric, shirting, sheeting, towels, tablecloths, etc. "In linen white as milk." Robert of Brunne. 2. Underclothing, esp. the shirt, as being, in former times, chiefly made of linen. Linen draper, a dealer in linen. -- Linen prover, a small microscope for counting the threads in a given space in linen fabrics. -- Linen scroll, Linen pattern (Arch.), an ornament for filling panels, copied from the folds of a piece of stuff symmetrically disposed. LINENER Lin"en*er, n. Defn: A dealer in linen; a linen draper. [Obs.] LINEOLATE Lin"e*o*late, a. Etym: [L. lineola, dim. of linea line.] 1. (Zoöl.) Defn: Marked with little lines. 2. (Bot.) Defn: Marked longitudinally with fine lines. Gray. LINER Lin"er, n. 1. One who lines, as, a liner of shoes. 2. A vessel belonging to a regular line of packets; also, a line-of- battle ship; a ship of the line. 3. (Mach.) Defn: A thin piece placed between two parts to hold or adjust them, fill a space, etc., ; a shim. 4. (Steam Engine) Defn: A lining within the cylinder, in which the piston works and between which and the outer shell of the cylinder a space is left to form a steam jacket. 5. A slab on which small pieces of marble, tile, etc., are fastened for grinding. 6. (Baseball) Defn: A ball which, when struck, flies through the air in a nearly straight line not far from the ground. LINE-UP; LINEUP Line"-up`, Line"up`, n. Defn: The formation of football players before the start or a restart of play; hence (Colloq.), Defn: any arrangement of persons (rarely, of