[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

drifted sand. -- Sand eel. (Zoöl.) (a) A lant, or launce. (b) A slender Pacific Ocean fish of the genus Gonorhynchus, having barbels about the mouth. -- Sand flag, sandstone which splits up into flagstones. -- Sand flea. (Zoöl.) (a) Any species of flea which inhabits, or breeds in, sandy places, especially the common dog flea. (b) the chigoe. (c) Any leaping amphipod crustacean; a beach flea, or orchestian. See Beach flea, under Beach. -- Sand flood, a vast body of sand borne along by the wind. James Bruce. -- Sand fluke. (Zoöl.) (a) The sandnecker. (b) The European smooth dab (Pleuronectes microcephalus); -- called also kitt, marysole, smear dab, town dab. -- Sand fly (Zoöl.), any one of several species of small dipterous flies of the genus Simulium, abounding on sandy shores, especially Simulium nocivum of the United States. They are very troublesome on account of their biting habits. Called also no-see-um, punky, and midge. -- Sand gall (Geol.) See Sand pipe, below. -- Sand grass (Bot.), any species of grass which grows in sand; especially, a tufted grass (Triplasis purpurea) with numerous bearded joints, and acid awl-shaped leaves, growing on the Atlantic coast. -- Sand grouse (Zoöl.), any one of many species of Old World birds belonging to the suborder Pterocletes, and resembling both grouse and pigeons. Called also rock grouse, rock pigeon, and ganga. They mostly belong to the genus Pterocles, as the common Indian species (P. exustus). The large sand grouse (P. arenarius), the painted sand grouse (P. fasciatus), and the pintail sand grouse (P. alchata) are also found in India. See Illust. under Pterocletes. -- Sand hill, a hill of sand; a dune. -- Sand-hill crane (Zoöl.), the American brown crane (Grus Mexicana). -- Sand hopper (Zoöl.), a beach flea; an orchestian. -- Sand hornet (Zoöl.), a sand wasp. -- Sand lark. (Zoöl.) (a) A small lark (Alaudala raytal), native of India. (b) A small sandpiper, or plover, as the ringneck, the sanderling, and the common European sandpiper. (c) The Australian red-capped dotterel (Ægialophilus ruficapillus); -- called also red- necked plover. -- Sand launce (Zoöl.), a lant, or launce. -- Sand lizard (Zoöl.), a common European lizard (Lacerta agilis). -- Sand martin (Zoöl.), the bank swallow. -- Sand mole (Zoöl.), the coast rat. -- Sand monitor (Zoöl.), a large Egyptian lizard (Monitor arenarius) which inhabits dry localities. -- Sand mouse (Zoöl.), the dunlin. [Prov. Eng.] -- Sand myrtle. (Bot.) See under Myrtle. -- Sand partridge (Zoöl.), either of two small Asiatic partridges of the genus Ammoperdix. The wings are long and the tarsus is spurless. One species (A. Heeji) inhabits Palestine and Arabia. The other species (A. Bonhami), inhabiting Central Asia, is called also seesee partridge, and teehoo. -- Sand picture, a picture made by putting sand of different colors on an adhesive surface. -- Sand pike. (Zoöl.) (a) The sauger. (b) The lizard fish. -- Sand pillar, a sand storm which takes the form of a whirling pillar in its progress in desert tracts like those of the Sahara and Mongolia. -- Sand pipe (Geol.), a tubular cavity, from a few inches to several feet in dept, occurring especially in calcareous rocks, and often filled with gravel, sand, etc.; -- called also sand gall. -- Sand pride (Zoöl.), a small british lamprey now considered to be the young of larger species; -- called also sand prey. -- Sand pump, in artesian well boring, a long, slender bucket with a valve at the bottom for raising sand from the well. -- Sand rat (Zoöl.), the pocket gopher. -- Sand rock, a rock made of cemented sand. -- Sand runner (Zoöl.), the turnstone. -- Sand saucer (Zoöl.), the mass of egg capsules, or oöthecæ, of any mollusk of the genus Natica and allied genera. It has the shape of a bottomless saucer, and is coated with fine sand; -- called also sand collar. -- Sand screw (Zoöl.), an amphipod crustacean (Lepidactylis arenarius), which burrows in the sandy seabeaches of Europe and America. -- Sand shark (Zoöl.), an American shark (Odontaspis littoralis) found on the sandy coasts of the Eastern United States; -- called also gray shark, and dogfish shark. See Illust. under Remora. -- Sand skink (Zoöl.), any one of several species of Old World lizards belonging to the genus Seps; as, the ocellated sand skink (Seps ocellatus) of Southern Europe. -- Sand skipper (Zoöl.), a beach flea, or orchestian. -- Sand smelt (Zoöl.), a silverside. -- Sand snake. (Zoöl.) (a) Any one of several species of harmless burrowing snakes of the genus Eryx, native of Southern Europe, Africa, and Asia, especially E. Jaculus of India and E. Johnii, used by snake charmers. (b) Any innocuous South African snake of the genus Psammophis, especially P. sibilans. -- Sand snipe (Zoöl.), the sandpiper. -- Sand star (Zoöl.), an ophiurioid starfish living on sandy sea bottoms; a brittle star. -- Sand storm, a cloud of sand driven violently by the wind. -- Sand sucker, the sandnecker. -- Sand swallow (Zoöl.), the bank swallow. See under Bank. -- Sand tube, a tube made of sand. Especially: (a) A tube of vitrified sand, produced by a stroke of lightning; a fulgurite. (b) (Zoöl.) Any tube made of cemented sand. (c) (Zoöl. ) In starfishes, a tube having calcareous particles in its wall, which connects the oral water tube with the madreporic plate. -- Sand viper. (Zoöl.) See Hognose snake. -- Sand wasp (Zoöl.), any one of numerous species of hymenopterous insects belonging to the families Pompilidæ and Spheridæ, which dig burrows in sand. The female provisions the nest with insects or spiders which she paralyzes by stinging, and which serve as food for her young. SAND Sand, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Sanded; p. pr. & vb. n. Sanding.] 1. To sprinkle or cover with sand. 2. To drive upon the sand. [Obs.] Burton. 3. To bury (oysters) beneath drifting sand or mud. 4. To mix with sand for purposes of fraud; as, to sand sugar. [Colloq.] SANDAL San"dal, n. Defn: Same as Sendal. Sails of silk and ropes of sandal. Longfellow. SANDAL San"dal, n. Defn: Sandalwood. "Fans of sandal." Tennyson. SANDAL San"dal, n. Etym: [F. sandale, L. sandalium, Gr. sandal.] (a) A kind of shoe consisting of a sole strapped to the foot; a protection for the foot, covering its lower surface, but not its upper. (b) A kind of slipper. (c) An overshoe with parallel openings across the instep. SANDALED San"daled, a. 1. Wearing sandals. The measured footfalls of his sandaled feet. Longfellow. 2. Made like a sandal. SANDALIFORM San*dal"i*form, a. Etym: [Sandal + -form.] (Bot.) Defn: Shaped like a sandal or slipper. SANDALWOOD San"dal*wood, n. Etym: [F. sandal, santal, fr. Ar. çandal, or Gr. sa`ntalon; both ultimately fr. Skr. candana. Cf. Sanders.] (Bot.) (a) The highly perfumed yellowish heartwood of an East Indian and Polynesian tree (Santalum album), and of several other trees of the same genus, as the Hawaiian Santalum Freycinetianum and S. pyrularium, the Australian S. latifolium, etc. The name is extended to several other kinds of fragrant wood. (b) Any tree of the genus Santalum, or a tree which yields sandalwood. (c) The red wood of a kind of buckthorn, used in Russia for dyeing leather (Rhamnus Dahuricus). False sandalwood, the fragrant wood of several trees not of the genus Santalum, as Ximenia Americana, Myoporum tenuifolium of Tahiti. -- Red sandalwood, a heavy, dark red dyewood, being the heartwood of two leguminous trees of India (Pterocarpus santalinus, and Adenanthera pavonina); -- called also red sanderswood, sanders or saunders, and rubywood. SANDARACH; SANDARAC San"da*rach, San"da*rac, (, n. Etym: [L. sandaraca, Gr. 1. (Min.) Defn: Realgar; red sulphide of arsenic. [Archaic] 2. (Bot. Chem.) Defn: A white or yellow resin obtained from a Barbary tree (Callitris quadrivalvis or Thuya articulata), and pulverized for pounce; -- probably so called from a resemblance to the mineral. SANDBAGGER Sand"bag`ger, n. Defn: An assaulter whose weapon is a sand bag. See Sand bag, under Sand. SAND-BLIND Sand"-blind", a. Etym: [For sam blind half blind; AS. sam- half (akin to semi-) + blind.] Defn: Having defective sight; dim-sighted; purblind. Shak. SANDED Sand"ed, a. 1. Covered or sprinkled with sand; sandy; barren. Thomson. 2. Marked with small spots; variegated with spots; speckled; of a sandy color, as a hound. Shak. 3. Short-sighted. [Prov. Eng.] SANDEMANIAN San`de*ma"ni*an, n. (Eccl. Hist.) Defn: A follower of Robert Sandeman, a Scotch sectary of the eighteenth century. See Glassite. SANDEMANIANISM San`de*ma"ni*an*ism, n. Defn: The faith or system of the Sandemanians. A. Fuller. SANDERLING San"der*ling, n. Etym: [Sand + 0ling. So called because it obtains its food by searching the moist sands of the seashore.] (Zo\'94l.) Defn: A small gray and brown sandpiper (Calidris arenaria) very common on sandy beaches in America, Europe, and Asia. Called also curwillet, sand lark, stint, and ruddy plover. SANDERS San"ders, n. Etym: [See Sandal.] Defn: An old name of sandalwood, now applied only to the red sandalwood. See under Sandalwood. SANDERS-BLUE San"ders-blue", n. Defn: See Saundersblue. SANDEVER San"de*ver, n. Defn: See