[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

resemblance of qualities or properties; to correspond; to harmonize. The pleasing of color symbolizeth with the pleasing of any single tone to the ear; but the pleasing of order doth symbolize with harmony. Bacon. They both symbolize in this, that they love to look upon themselves through multiplying glasses. Howell. 2. To hold the same faith; to agree. [R.] The believers in pretended miracles have always previously symbolized with the performers of them. G. S. Faber. 3. To use symbols; to represent ideas symbolically. SYMBOLIZE Sym"bol*ize, v. t. 1. To make to agree in properties or qualities. 2. To make representative of something; to regard or treat as symbolic. "Some symbolize the same from the mystery of its colors." Sir T. Browne. 3. To represent by a symbol or symbols. SYMBOLIZER Sym"bol*i`zer, n. Defn: One who symbolizes. SYMBOLOGICAL Sym`bo*log"i*cal, a. Defn: Pertaining to a symbology; versed in, or characterized by, symbology. SYMBOLOGIST Sym*bol"o*gist, n. Defn: One who practices, or who is versed in, symbology. SYMBOLOGY Sym*bol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Symbol + -logy.] Defn: The art of expressing by symbols. SYMBRANCHII Sym*bran"chi*i, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zoöl.) Defn: An order of slender eel-like fishes having the gill openings confluent beneath the neck. The pectoral arch is generally attached to the skull, and the entire margin of the upper jaw is formed by the premaxillary. Called also Symbranchia. SYMMETRAL Sym"me*tral, a. Defn: Commensurable; symmetrical. [Obs.] Dr. H. More. SYMMETRIAN Sym*me"tri*an, n. Defn: One eminently studious of symmetry of parts. [R.] Sir P. Sidney. SYMMETRIC Sym*met"ric, a. Defn: Symmetrical. SYMMETRICAL Sym*met"ric*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. symétrique. See Symmetry.] 1. Involving or exhibiting symmetry; proportional in parts; having its parts in due proportion as to dimensions; as, a symmetrical body or building. 2. (Biol.) Defn: Having the organs or parts of one side correspponding with those of the other; having the parts in two or more series of organs the same in number; exhibiting a symmetry.See Symmetry, 2. 3. (Bot.) (a) Having an equal number of parts in the successive circles of floral organs; -- said of flowers. (b) Having a likeness in the form and size of floral organs of the same kind; regular. 4. (Math.) Defn: Having a common measure; commensurable. (b) Having corresponding parts or relations. Note: A curve or a plane figure is symmetrical with respect to a given line, and a line, surface, or solid with respect to a plane, when for each point on one side of the line or plane there is a corresponding point on the other side, so situated that the line joining the two corresponding points is perpendicular to the line or plane and is bisectad by it. Two solids are symmetrical when they are so situate dwith the respect to an intervening plane that the several points of their surfaces thus correspond to each other in position and distance. In analysis, an expression is symmetrical with respect to several letters when any two of them may change places without affecting the expression; as, the expression a2b + ab2 + a2c + ac2 + b2c + bc2, is symmetrical with respect to the letters a, b, c. -- Sym*met"ric*al*ly, adv. -- Sym*met"ric*al*ness, n. SYMMETRICIAN Sym`me*tri"cian, n. Defn: Same as Symmetrian. [R.] Holinshed. SYMMETRIST Sym"me*trist, n. Defn: One eminently studious of symmetry of parts. Sir H. Wotton. SYMMETRIZE Sym"me*trize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Symmetrized; p. pr. & vb. n. Symmetrizing.] Etym: [Cf. F. symétriser.] Defn: To make proportional in its parts; to reduce to symmetry. Burke. SYMMETRY Sym"me*try, n. Etym: [L. symmetria, Gr. symétrie. See Syn-, and Meter rhythm.] 1. A due proportion of the several parts of a body to each other; adaptation of the form or dimensions of the several parts of a thing to each other; the union and conformity of the members of a work to the whole. 2. (Biol.) Defn: The law of likeness; similarity of structure; regularity in form and arrangement; orderly and similar distribution of parts, such that an animal may be divided into parts which are structurally symmetrical. Note: Bilateral symmetry, or two-sidedness, in vertebrates, etc., is that in which the body can be divided into symmetrical halves by a vertical plane passing through the middle; radial symmetry, as in echinoderms, is that in which the individual parts are arranged symmetrically around a central axis; serial symmetry, or zonal symmetry, as in earthworms, is that in which the segments or metameres of the body are disposed in a zonal manner one after the other in a longitudinal axis. This last is sometimes called metamerism. 3. (Bot.) (a) Equality in the number of parts of the successive circles in a flower. (b) Likeness in the form and size of floral organs of the same kind; regularity. Axis of symmetry. (Geom.) See under Axis. -- Respective symmetry, that disposition of parts in which only the opposite sides are equal to each other. SYMPATHETIC Sym`pa*thet"ic, a. Etym: [See Sympathy, and cf. Pathetic.] 1. Inclined to sympathy; sympathizing. Far wiser he, whose sympathetic mind Exults in all the good of all mankind. Goldsmith. 2. Produced by, or expressive of, sympathy. Ope the sacred source of sympathetic tears. Gray. 3. (Physiol.) (a) Produced by sympathy; -- applied particularly to symptoms or affections. See Sympathy. (b) Of or relating to the sympathetic nervous system or some of its branches; produced by stimulation on the sympathetic nervious system or some part of it; as, the sympathetic saliva, a modified form of saliva, produced from some of the salivary glands by stimulation of a sympathetic nerve fiber. Sympathetic ink. (Chem.) See under Ink. -- Sympathetic nerve (Anat.), any nerve of the sympathetic system; especially, the axial chain of ganglions and nerves belonging to the sympathetic system. -- Sympathetic powder (Alchemy), a kind of powder long supposed to be able to cure a wound if applied to the weapon that inflicted it, or even to a portion of the bloody clothes. Dunglison. -- Sympathetic sounds (Physics), sounds produced from solid bodies by means of vibrations which have been communicated to them from some other sounding body, by means of the air or an intervening solid. -- Sympathetic system (Anat.), a system of nerves and nerve ganglions connected with the alimentary canal, the vascular system, and the glandular organs of most vertebrates, and controlling more or less their actions. The axial part of the system and its principal ganglions and nerves are situated in the body cavity and form a chain of ganglions on each side of the vertebral column connected with numerous other ganglions and nerve plexuses. SYMPATHETICAL Sym`pa*thet"ic*al, a. Defn: Sympathetic. SYMPATHETICALLY Sym`pa*thet"ic*al*ly, adv. Defn: In a sympathetic manner. SYMPATHIST Sym"pa*thist, n. Defn: One who sympathizes; a sympathizer. [R.] Coleridge. SYMPATHIZE Sym"pa*thize, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Sympathized; p. pr. & vb. n. Sympathizing.] Etym: [F. sympathiser. See Sympathy.] 1. To have a common feeling, as of bodily pleasure or pain. The mind will sympathize so much with the anguish and debility of the body, that it will be too distracted to fix itself in meditation. Buckminster. 2. To feel in consequence of what another feels; to be affected by feelings similar to those of another, in consequence of knowing the person to be thus affected. Their countrymen . . . sympathized with their heroes in all their adventures. Addison. 3. To agree; to be in accord; to harmonize. Dryden. SYMPATHIZE Sym"pa*thize, v. t. 1. To experience together. [Obs.] "This sympathized . . . error." Shak. 2. To ansew to; to correspond to. [Obs.] Shak. SYMPATHIZER Sym"pa*thi`zer, n. Defn: One who sympathizes. SYMPATHY Sym"pa*thy, n.; pl. Sympathies. Etym: [F. sympathie, L. sympathia, Gr. Syn-, and Pathos.] 1. Feeling corresponding to that which another feels; the quality of being affected by the affection of another, with feelings correspondent in kind, if not in degree; fellow-feeling. They saw, but other sight instead -- a crowd Of ugly serpents! Horror on them fell, And horrid sympathy. Milton. 2. An agreement of affections or inclinations, or a conformity of natural temperament, which causes persons to be pleased, or in accord, with one another; as, there is perfect sympathy between them. 3. Kindness of feeling toward one who suffers; pity; commiseration; compassion. I value myself upon sympathy, I hate and despise myself for envy. Kames. 4. (Physiol.) (a) The reciprocal influence exercised by the various organs or parts of the body on one another, as manifested in the transmission of a disease by unknown means from one organ to another quite remote, or in the influence exerted by a diseased condition of one part on another part or organ, as in the vomiting produced by a tumor of the brain. (b) That relation which exists between different persons by which one of them produces in the others a state or condition like that of himself. This is shown in the tendency to yawn which a person often feels on seeing another yawn, or the strong inclination to become hysteric experienced by many women on seeing another