[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

delicate fiber, produced in the Philippine Islands from an unidentified plant, of which dresses, etc., are made. JUST Just, a. Etym: [F. juste, L. justus, fr. jus right, law, justice; orig., that which is fitting; akin to Skr. yu to join. Cf. Injury, Judge, Jury, Giusto.] 1. Conforming or conformable to rectitude or justice; not doing wrong to any; violating no right or obligation; upright; righteous; honest; true; -- said both of persons and things. "O just but severe law!" Shak. There is not a just man upon earth, that doeth good, and sinneth not. Eccl. vii. 20. Just balances, just weights, . . . shall ye have. Lev. xix. 36. How should man be just with God Job ix. 2. We know your grace to be a man. Just and upright. Shak. 2. Not transgressing the requirement of truth and propriety; conformed to the truth of things, to reason, or to a proper standard; exact; normal; reasonable; regular; due; as, a just statement; a just inference. Just of thy word, in every thought sincere. Pope. The prince is here at hand: pleaseth your lordship To meet his grace just distance 'tween our armies. Shak. He was a comely personage, a little above just stature. Bacon. Fire fitted with just materials casts a constant heat. Jer. Taylor. When all The war shall stand ranged in its just array. Addison. Their named alone would make a just volume. Burton. 3. Rendering or disposed to render to each one his due; equitable; fair; impartial; as, just judge. Men are commonly so just to virtue and goodness as to praise it in others, even when they do not practice it themselves. Tillotson. Just intonation. (Mus.) (a) The correct sounding of notes or intervals; true pitch. (b) The giving all chords and intervals in their purity or their exact mathematical ratio, or without temperament; a process in which the number of notes and intervals required in the various keys is much greater than the twelve to the octave used in systems of temperament. H. W. Poole. Syn. -- Equitable; upright; honest; true; fair; impartial; proper; exact; normal; orderly; regular. JUST Just, adv. 1. Precisely; exactly; -- in place, time, or degree; neither more nor less than is stated. And having just enough, not covet more. Dryden. The god Pan guided my hand just to the heart of the beast. Sir P. Sidney. To-night, at Herne's oak, just 'twixt twelve and one. Shak. 2. Closely; nearly; almost. Just at the point of death. Sir W. Temple. 3. Barely; merely; scarcely; only; by a very small space or time; as, he just missed the train; just too late. A soft Etesian gale But just inspired and gently swelled the sail. Dryden. Just now, the least possible time since; a moment ago. JUST Just, v. i. Etym: [See Joust.] Defn: To joust. Fairfax. JUST Just, n. Defn: A joust. Dryden. JUSTICE Jus"tice, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. justitia, fr. justus just. See Just, a.] 1. The quality of being just; conformity to the principles of righteousness and rectitude in all things; strict performance of moral obligations; practical conformity to human or divine law; integrity in the dealings of men with each other; rectitude; equity; uprightness. Justice and judgment are the haditation of thy throne. Ps. ixxxix. 11. The king-becoming graces, As justice, verity, temperance, stableness, . . . I have no relish of them. Shak. 2. Conformity to truth and reality in expressing opinions and in conduct; fair representation of facts respecting merit or demerit; honesty; fidelity; impartiality; as, the justice of a description or of a judgment; historical justice. 3. The rendering to every one his due or right; just treatment; requital of desert; merited reward or punishment; that which is due to one's conduct or motives. This even-handed justice Commends the ingredients of our poisoned chalice To our own lips. Shak. 4. Agreeableness to right; equity; justness; as, the justice of a claim. 5. A person duly commissioned to hold courts, or to try and decide controversies and administer justice. Note: This title is given to the judges of the common law courts in England and in the United States, and extends to judicial officers and magistrates of every grade. Bed of justice. See under Bed. -- Chief justice. See in the Vocabulary. -- Justice of the peace (Law), a judicial officer or subordinate magistrate appointed for the conservation of the peace in a specified district, with other incidental powers specified in his commission. In the United States a justice of the peace has jurisdiction to adjudicate certain minor cases, commit offenders, etc. Syn. -- Equity; law; right; rectitude; honesty; integrity; uprightness; fairness; impartiality. -- Justice, Equity, Law. Justice and equity are the same; but human laws, though designed to secure justice, are of necessity imperfect, and hence what is strictly legal is at times far from being equitable or just. Here a court of equity comes in to redress the grievances. It does so, as distinguished from courts of law; and as the latter are often styled courts of justice, some have fancied that there is in this case a conflict between justice and equity. The real conflict is against the working of the law; this a court of equity brings into accordance with the claims of justice. It would be an unfortunate use of language which should lead any one to imagine he might have justice on his side while practicing iniquity (inequity). Justice, Rectitude. Rectitude, in its widest sense, is one of the most comprehensive words in our language, denoting absolute conformity to the rule of right in principle and practice. Justice refers more especially to the carrying out of law, and has been considered by moralists as of three kinds: (1) Commutative justice, which gives every man his own property, including things pledged by promise. (2) Distributive justice, which gives every man his exact deserts. (3) General justice, which carries out all the ends of law, though not in every case through the precise channels of commutative or distributive justice; as we see often done by a parent or a ruler in his dealings with those who are subject to his control. JUSTICE Jus"tice, v. t. Defn: To administer justice to. [Obs.] Bacon. JUSTICEABLE Jus"tice*a*ble, a. Defn: Liable to trial in a court of justice. [Obs.] Hayward. JUSTICEHOOD Jus"tice*hood, n. Defn: Justiceship. B. Jonson. JUSTICEMENT Jus"tice*ment, n. Defn: Administration of justice; procedure in courts of justice. [Obs.] Johnson. JUSTICER Jus"ti*cer, n. Defn: One who administers justice; a judge. [Obs.] "Some upright justicer." Shak. JUSTICESHIP Jus"tice*ship, n. Defn: The office or dignity of a justice. Holland. JUSTICIABLE Jus*ti"ci*a*ble, a. Etym: [Cf. LL. justitiabilis, F. justiciable.] Defn: Proper to be examined in a court of justice. Bailey. JUSTICIAR Jus*ti"ci*ar, n. Defn: Same as Justiciary. JUSTICIARY Jus*ti"ci*a*ry, n. Etym: [Cf. LL. justitiarius, F. justicier. See Justice.] (Old Eng. Law) Defn: An old name for the judges of the higher English courts. Note: The chief justiciary, or justiciar, in early English history, was not only the chief justice of the kingdom, but also ex officio regent in the king's absence. Court of justiciary (Scots Law), the supreme criminal court, having jurisdiction over the whole of Scotland. JUSTICO; JUSTICOAT Jus"ti*co, Jus"ti*coat`, n. Etym: [F. justaucorps, lit., close to the body.] Defn: Formerly, a close coat or waistcoat with sleeves. JUSTIFIABLE Jus"ti*fi`a*ble, a. Etym: [Cf. F. justifiable. See Justify.] Defn: Capable of being justified, or shown to be just. Just are the ways of God, An justifiable to men. Milton. Syn. -- Defensible; vindicable; warrantable; excusable; exculpable; authorizable. -- Jus"ti*fi`a*ble*ness, n. -- Jus"ti*fi`a*bly, adv. JUSTIFICATION Jus`ti*fi*ca"tion, n. Etym: [L. justificatio: cf. F. justification. See Justify.] 1. The act of justifying or the state of being justified; a showing or proving to be just or conformable to law, justice, right, or duty; defense; vindication; support; as, arguments in justification of the prisoner's conduct; his disobedience admits justification. I hope, for my brother's justification, he wrote this but as an essay or taste of my virtue. Shak. 2. (Law) Defn: The showing in court of a sufficient lawful reason why a party charged or accused did that for which he is called to answer. 3. (Theol.) Defn: The act of justifying, or the state of being justified, in respect to God's requirements. Who was delivered for our offenses, and was raised again for our justification. Rom. iv. 25. In such righteousness To them by faith imputed, they may find Justification toward God, and peace Of conscience. Milton. 4. (Print.) Defn: Adjustment of type by spacing it so as to make it exactly fill a line, or of a cut so as to hold it in the right place; also, the leads, quads, etc., used for making such adjustment. JUSTIFICATIVE Jus*tif"i*ca*tive, a. Etym: [Cf. F. justificatif.] Defn: Having power to justify; justificatory. JUSTIFICATOR Jus"ti*fi*ca`tor, n. Etym: [LL. justificator: cf. F. justificateur.] Defn: One who justifies or vindicates; a justifier. Johnson. JUSTIFICATORY Jus*tif"i*ca*to*ry, a. Defn: Vindicatory; defensory; justificative. JUSTIFIER Jus"ti*fi`er, n.