[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

titles; as, right honorable; right reverend. Right honorable, a title given in England to peers and peeresses, to the eldest sons and all daughters of such peers as have rank above viscounts, and to all privy councilors; also, to certain civic officers, as the lord mayor of London, of York, and of Dublin. Note: Right is used in composition with other adverbs, as upright, downright, forthright, etc. Right along, without cessation; continuously; as, to work right along for several hours. [Colloq. U.S.] -- Right away, or Right off, at once; straightway; without delay. [Colloq. U.S.] "We will . . . shut ourselves up in the office and do the work right off." D. Webster. RIGHT Right, n. Etym: [AS. right. See Right, a.] 1. That which is right or correct. Specifically: (a) The straight course; adherence to duty; obedience to lawful authority, divine or human; freedom from guilt, -- the opposite of moral wrong. (b) A true statement; freedom from error of falsehood; adherence to truth or fact. Seldom your opinions err; Your eyes are always in the right. Prior. (c) A just judgment or action; that which is true or proper; justice; uprightness; integrity. Long love to her has borne the faithful knight, And well deserved, had fortune done him right. Dryden. 2. That to which one has a just claim. Specifically: (a) That which one has a natural claim to exact. There are no rights whatever, without corresponding duties. Coleridge. (b) That which one has a legal or social claim to do or to exact; legal power; authority; as, a sheriff has a right to arrest a criminal. (c) That which justly belongs to one; that which one has a claim to possess or own; the interest or share which anyone has in a piece of property; title; claim; interest; ownership. Born free, he sought his right. Dryden. Hast thou not right to all created things Milton. Men have no right to what is not reasonable. Burke. (d) Privilege or immunity granted by authority. 3. The right side; the side opposite to the left. Led her to the Souldan's right. Spenser. 4. In some legislative bodies of Europe (as in France), those members collectively who are conservatives or monarchists. See Center, 5. 5. The outward or most finished surface, as of a piece of cloth, a carpet, etc. At all right, at all points; in all respects. [Obs.] Chaucer. -- Bill of rights, a list of rights; a paper containing a declaration of rights, or the declaration itself. See under Bill. -- By right, By rights, or By good rights, rightly; properly; correctly. He should himself use it by right. Chaucer. I should have been a woman by right. Shak. -- Divine right, or Divine right of kings, a name given to the patriarchal theory of government, especially to the doctrine that no misconduct and no dispossession can forfeit the right of a monarch or his heirs to the throne, and to the obedience of the people. -- To rights. (a) In a direct line; straight. [R.] Woodward. (b) At once; directly. [Obs. or Colloq.] Swift. -- To set to rights, To put to rights, to put in good order; to adjust; to regulate, as what is out of order. -- Writ of right (Law), a writ which lay to recover lands in fee simple, unjustly withheld from the true owner. Blackstone. RIGHT Right, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Righted; p. pr. & vb. n. Righting.] Etym: [AS. rihtan. See Right, a.] 1. To bring or restore to the proper or natural position; to set upright; to make right or straight (that which has been wrong or crooked); to correct. 2. To do justice to; to relieve from wrong; to restore rights to; to assert or regain the rights of; as, to right the oppressed; to right one's self; also, to vindicate. So just is God, to right the innocent. Shak. All experience hath shown that mankind are more disposed to suffer while evils are sufferable, than to right themselves by abolishing the forms to which they are accustomed. Jefferson. To right a vessel (Naut.), to restore her to an upright position after careening. -- To right the helm (Naut.), to place it in line with the keel. RIGHT Right, v. i. 1. To recover the proper or natural condition or position; to become upright. 2. (Naut.) Defn: Hence, to regain an upright position, as a ship or boat, after careening. RIGHT-ABOUT Right"-a*bout`, n. Etym: [Right, adv. + about, adv.] Defn: A turning directly about by the right, so as to face in the opposite direction; also, the quarter directly opposite; as, to turn to the right-about. To send to the right-about, to cause to turn toward the opposite point or quarter; -- hence, of troops, to cause to turn and retreat. [Colloq.] Sir W. Scott. RIGHT-ANGLED Right"-an`gled, a. Defn: Containing a right angle or right angles; as, a right-angled triangle. RIGHTEN Right"en, v. t. Defn: To do justice to. [Obs.] Relieve [marginal reading, righten] the opressed. Isa. i. 17. RIGHTEOUS Right"eous, a. Etym: [OE. rightways, rightwise, AS.rightwis; riht right + wis wise, having wisdom, prudent. See Right, a., Wise, a.] Defn: Doing, or according with, that which is right; yielding to all their due; just; equitable; especially, free from wrong, guilt, or sin; holy; as, a righteous man or act; a righteous retribution. Fearless in his righteous cause. Milton. Syn. -- Upright; just; godly; holy; uncorrupt; virtuous; honest; equitable; rightful. RIGHTEOUSED Right"eoused, a. Defn: Made righteous. [Obs.] RIGHTEOUSLY Right"eous*ly, adv. Etym: [AS. rightwislice.] Defn: In a righteous manner; as, to judge righteously. RIGHTEOUSNESS Right"eous*ness, n. Etym: [AS. rihtwisnes.] 1. The quality or state of being righteous; holiness; purity; uprightness; rectitude. Note: Righteousness, as used in Scripture and theology, in which it chiefly occurs, is nearly equivalent to holiness, comprehending holy principles and affections of heart, and conformity of life to the divine law. 2. A righteous act, or righteous quality. All our righteousnesses are as filthy rags. Isa. lxiv. 6. 3. The act or conduct of one who is righteous. Blessed are they that keep judgment, and he that doeth right at all times. Ps. cvi. 3. 4. (Theol.) Defn: The state of being right with God; justification; the work of Christ, which is the ground justification. There are two kinds of Christian righteousness: the one without us, which we have by imputation; the other in us, which consisteth of faith, hope, and charity, and other Christian virtues. Hooker. Only for the righteousness of Christ imputed to us, and received by faith alone. Westminster Catechism. Syn. -- Uprightness; holiness; godliness; equity; justice; rightfulness; integryty; honesty; faithfulness. RIGHTER Right"er, n. Defn: One who sets right; one who does justice or redresses wrong. Shelton. RIGHTFUL Right"ful, a. 1. Righteous; upright; just; good; -- said of persons. [Obs.] Chaucer. 2. Consonant to justice; just; as, a rightful cause. 3. Having the right or just claim according to established laws; being or holding by right; as, the rightful heir to a throne or an estate; a rightful king. 4. Belonging, held, or possessed by right, or by just claim; as, a rightful inheritance; rightful authority. Syn. -- Just; lawful; true; honest; equitable; proper. RIGHTFULLY Right"ful*ly, adv. Defn: According to right or justice. RIGHTFULNESS Right"ful*ness, n. 1. The quality or state of being rightful; accordance with right and justice. 2. Moral rectitude; righteousness. [Obs.] Wyclif. We fail of perfect rightfulness. Sir P. Sidney. RIGHT-HAND Right"-hand`, a. 1. Situated or being on the right; nearer the right hand than the left; as, the right-hand side, room, or road. 2. Chiefly relied on; almost indispensable. Mr. Alexander Truncheon, who is their right-hand man in the troop. Addison. Right-hand rope, a rope which is laid up and twisted with the sun, that is, in the same direction as plain-laid rope. See Illust. of Cordage. RIGHT-HANDED Right"-*hand`ed, a. 1. Using the right hand habitually, or more easily than the left. 2. Having the same direction or course as the movement of the hands of a watch seen in front; -- said of the motion of a revolving object looked at from a given direction. 3. (Zoöl.) Defn: Having the whorls rising from left to right; dextral; -- said of spiral shells. See Illust. of Scalaria. Right-handed screw, a screw, the threads of which, like those of a common wood screw, wind spirally in such a direction that screw advances away from the observer when turned with a right-handed movement in a fixed nut. RIGHT-HANDEDNESS Right"-hand`ed*ness, n. Defn: The state or quality of being right-handed; hence, skill; dexterity. RIGHT-HEARTED Right"-heart`ed, a. Defn: Having a right heart or disposition. -- Right"-heart`ed*ness, n. RIGHTLESS Right"less, a. Defn: Destitute of right. Sylvester. RIGHT-LINED Right"-lined`, a. Defn: Formed by right lines; rectilineal; as, a right-lined angle. RIGHTLY Right"ly, adv. Etym: [AS. richtlice.] 1. Straightly; directly; in front. [Obs.] Shak. 2. According to justice; according to the divine will or moral rectitude; uprightly; as, duty rightly performed. 3. Properly; fitly; suitably;