[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

strut by the water side. J. Cotgrave. SNAG Snag, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Snagged; p. pr. & vb. n. Snagging.] 1. To cut the snags or branches from, as the stem of a tree; to hew roughly. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. 2. To injure or destroy, as a steamboat or other vessel, by a snag, or projecting part of a sunken tree. [U. S.] SNAGGED Snag"ged, a. Defn: Full of snags; snaggy. SNAGGY Snag"gy, a. 1. Full of snags; full of short, rough branches or sharp points; abounding with knots. "Upon a snaggy oak." Spenser. 2. Snappish; cross; ill-tempered. [Prov. Eng.] SNAIL Snail, n. Etym: [OE. snaile, AS. sn, snegel, sn; akin to G. schnecke, OHG. snecko, Dan. snegl, Icel. snigill.] 1. (Zoöl.) (a) Any one of numerous species of terrestrial air-breathing gastropods belonging to the genus Helix and many allied genera of the family Helicidæ. They are abundant in nearly all parts of the world except the arctic regions, and feed almost entirely on vegetation; a land sanil. (b) Any gastropod having a general resemblance to the true snails, including fresh-water and marine species. See Pond snail, under Pond, and Sea snail. 2. Hence, a drone; a slow-moving person or thing. 3. (Mech.) Defn: A spiral cam, or a flat piece of metal of spirally curved outline, used for giving motion to, or changing the position of, another part, as the hammer tail of a striking clock. 4. A tortoise; in ancient warfare, a movable roof or shed to protect besiegers; a testudo. [Obs.] They had also all manner of gynes [engines] . . . that needful is [in] taking or sieging of castle or of city, as snails, that was naught else but hollow pavises and targets, under the which men, when they fought, were heled [protected], . . . as the snail is in his house; therefore they cleped them snails. Vegetius (Trans.). 5. (Bot.) Defn: The pod of the sanil clover. Ear snail, Edible snail, Pond snail, etc. See under Ear, Edible, etc. -- Snail borer (Zoöl.), a boring univalve mollusk; a drill. -- Snail clover (Bot.), a cloverlike plant (Medicago scuttellata, also, M. Helix); -- so named from its pods, which resemble the shells of snails; -- called also snail trefoil, snail medic, and beehive. -- Snail flower (Bot.), a leguminous plant (Phaseolus Caracalla) having the keel of the carolla spirally coiled like a snail shell. -- Snail shell (Zoöl.), the shell of snail. -- Snail trefoil. (Bot.) See Snail clover, above. SNAILFISH Snail"fish`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: See Sea snail (a). SNAIL-LIKE Snail"-like`, a. Defn: Like or suiting a snail; as, snail-like progress. SNAIL-LIKE Snail"-like`, adv. Defn: In the manner of a snail; slowly. SNAIL-PACED Snail"-paced`, a. Defn: Slow-moving, like a snail. Bid the snail-paced Ajax arm for shame. Shak. 'SNAILS 'Snails, interj. Defn: God's nails, or His nails, that is, the nails with which the Savior was fastened to the cross; -- an ancient form of oath, corresponding to 'Od's bodikins (dim. of body, i.e., God's dear body). Beau & Fl. SNAKE Snake, n. Etym: [AS. snaca; akin to LG. snake, schnake, Icel. snakr, sn, Dan. snog, Sw. snok; of uncertain origin.] (Zoöl.) Defn: Any species of the order Ophidia; an ophidian; a serpent, whether harmless or venomous. See Ophidia, and Serpent. Note: Snakes are abundant in all warm countries, and much the larger number are harmless to man. Blind snake, Garter snake, Green snake, King snake, Milk snake, Rock snake, Water snake, etc. See under Blind, Garter, etc. -- Fetich snake (Zoöl.), a large African snake (Python Sebæ) used by the natives as a fetich. -- Ringed snake (Zoöl.), a common European columbrine snake (Tropidonotus natrix). -- Snake eater. (Zoöl.) (a) The markhoor. (b) The secretary bird. -- Snake fence, a worm fence (which see). [U.S.] -- Snake fly (Zoöl.), any one of several species of neuropterous insects of the genus Rhaphidia; -- so called because of their large head and elongated neck and prothorax. -- Snake gourd (Bot.), a cucurbitaceous plant (Trichosanthes anguina) having the fruit shorter and less snakelike than that of the serpent cucumber. -- Snake killer. (Zoöl.) (a) The secretary bird. (b) The chaparral cock. -- Snake moss (Bot.), the common club moss (Lycopodium clavatum). See Lycopodium. -- Snake nut (Bot.), the fruit of a sapindaceous tree (Ophiocaryon paradoxum) of Guiana, the embryo of which resembles a snake coiled up. -- Tree snake (Zoöl.), any one of numerous species of colubrine snakes which habitually live in trees, especially those of the genus Dendrophis and allied genera. SNAKE Snake, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Snaked; p. pr. & vb. n. Snaking.] 1. To drag or draw, as a snake from a hole; -- often with out. [Colloq. U.S.] Bartlett. 2. (Naut.) Defn: To wind round spirally, as a large rope with a smaller, or with cord, the small rope lying in the spaces between the strands of the large one; to worm. SNAKE Snake, v. i. Defn: To crawl like a snake. SNAKEBIRD Snake"bird`, n. Etym: [So named from its snakelike neck.] (Zoöl.) 1. Any one of four species of aquatic birds of the genus Anhinga or Plotus. They are allied to the gannets and cormorants, but have very long, slender, flexible necks, and sharp bills. Note: The American species (Anhinga, or Plotus, anhinga) inhabits the Southern United States and tropical America; -- called also darter, and water turkey. The Asiatic species (A. melanogaster) is native of Southern Asia and the East Indies. Two other species inhabit Africa and Australia respectively. 2. (Zoöl.) Defn: The wryneck. SNAKEFISH Snake"fish`, n. (Zoöl.) (a) The band fish. (b) The lizard fish. SNAKEHEAD Snake"head`, n. 1. A loose, bent-up end of one of the strap rails, or flat rails, formerly used on American railroads. It was sometimes so bent by the passage of a train as to slip over a wheel and pierce the bottom of a car. 2. (Bot.) (a) The turtlehead. (b) The Guinea-hen flower. See Snake's-head, and under Guinea. SNAKENECK Snake"neck`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: The snakebird, 1. SNAKEROOT Snake"root`, n. (Bot.) Defn: Any one of several plants of different genera and species, most of which are (or were formerly) reputed to be efficacious as remedies for the bites of serpents; also, the roots of any of these. Note: The Virginia snakeroot is Aristolochia Serpentaria; black snakeroot is Sanicula, esp. S. Marilandica, also Cimicifuga racemosa; Seneca snakeroot is Polygala Senega; button snakeroot is Liatris, also Eryngium; white snakeroot is Eupatorium ageratoides. The name is also applied to some others besides these. SNAKE'S-HEAD Snake's"-head`, n. (Bot.) Defn: The Guinea-hen flower; -- so called in England because its spotted petals resemble the scales of a snake's head. Dr. Prior. Snake's-head iris (Bot.), an iridaceous plant (Hermodactylus tuberosus) of the Mediterranean region. The flowers slightly resemble a serpent's open mouth. SNAKESTONE Snake"stone`, n. 1. A kind of hone slate or whetstone obtained in Scotland. 2. (Paleon.) Defn: An ammonite; -- so called from its form, which resembles that of a coiled snake. SNAKE'S-TONGUE Snake's-tongue`, n. (Bot.) Defn: Same as Adder's-tongue. SNAKEWEED Snake"weed`, n. (Bot.) (a) A kind of knotweed (Polygonum Bistorta). (b) The Virginia snakeroot. See Snakeroot. SNAKEWOOD Snake"wood`, n. (Bot.) (a) An East Indian climbing plant (Strychnos colubrina) having a bitter taste, and supposed to be a remedy for the bite of the hooded serpent. (b) An East Indian climbing shrub (Ophioxylon serpentinum) which has the roots and stems twisted so as to resemble serpents. (c) Same as Trumpetwood. (d) A tropical American shrub (Plumieria rubra) which has very fragrant red blossoms. (e) Same as Letterwood. SNAKISH Snak"ish, a. Defn: Having the qualities or characteristics of a snake; snaky. SNAKY Snak"y, a. 1. Of or pertaining to a snake or snakes; resembling a snake; serpentine; winding. The red light playing upon its gilt and carving gave it an appearance of snaky life. L. Wallace. 2. Sly; cunning; insinuating; deceitful. So to the coast of Jordan he directs His easy steps, girded with snaky wiles. Milton. 3. Covered with serpents; having serpents; as, a snaky rod or wand. Dryden. That snaky-headed, Gorgon shield. Milton. SNAP Snap, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Snapped; p. pr. & vb. n. Snapping.] Etym: [LG. or D. snappen to snap up, to snatch; akin to G. schnappen, MHG. snaben, Dan. snappe, and to D. snavel beak, bill. Cf. Neb, Snaffle, n.] 1. To break at once; to break short, as substances that are brittle. Breaks the doors open, snaps the locks. Prior. 2. To strike, to hit, or to shut, with a sharp sound. 3. To bite or seize suddenly, especially with the teeth. He, by playing too often at the mouth of death, has been snapped by it at last. South. 4. To break upon suddenly with sharp, angry words; to treat snappishly; -- usually with up. Granville. 5. To crack; to cause to make a sharp, cracking noise; as, to snap a whip. MacMorian snapped his fingers repeatedly. Sir W. Scott. 6. To project with