[Electrical Engineering Textbook — Gutenberg #29765]

Lisbon, etc.; -- distinguished from wines of a deep red color, as port and Burgundy. "White wine of Lepe." Chaucer. -- White witch, a witch or wizard whose supernatural powers are supposed to be exercised for good and beneficent purposes. Addison. Cotton Mather. -- White wolf. (Zoöl.) (a) A light-colored wolf (Canis laniger) native of Thibet; -- called also chanco, golden wolf, and Thibetan wolf. (b) The albino variety of the gray wolf. -- White wren (Zoöl.), the willow warbler; -- so called from the color of the under parts. WHITE White, n. 1. The color of pure snow; one of the natural colors of bodies, yet not strictly a color, but a composition of all colors; the opposite of black; whiteness. See the Note under Color, n., 1. Finely attired in a of white. Shak. 2. Something having the color of snow; something white, or nearly so; as, the white of the eye. 3. Specifically, the central part of the butt in archery, which was formerly painted white; the center of a mark at which a missile is shot. 'T was I won the wager, though you hit the white. Shak. 4. A person with a white skin; a member of the white, or Caucasian, races of men. 5. A white pigment; as, Venice white. 6. (Zoöl.) Defn: Any one of numerous species of butterflies belonging to Pieris, and allied genera in which the color is usually white. See Cabbage butterfly, under Cabbage. Black and white. See under Black. -- Flake white, Paris white, etc. See under Flack, Paris, etc. -- White of a seed (Bot.), the albumen. See Albumen, 2. -- White of egg, the viscous pellucid fluid which surrounds the yolk in an egg, particularly in the egg of a fowl. In a hen's egg it is alkaline, and contains about 86 per cent of water and 14 per cent of solid matter, the greater portion of which is egg albumin. It likewise contains a small amount of globulin, and traces of fats and sugar, with some inorganic matter. Heated above 60º C. it coagulates to a solid mass, owing to the albumin which it contains. Parr. -- White of the eye (Anat.), the white part of the ball of the eye surrounding the transparent cornea. WHITE White, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Whited; p. pr. & vb. n. Whiting.] Etym: [AS. hwitan.] Defn: To make white; to whiten; to whitewash; to bleach. Whited sepulchers, which indeed appear beautiful outward, but are within full of . . . uncleanness. Matt. xxiii. 27. So as no fuller on earth can white them. Mark. ix. 3. WHITEBACK White"back`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: The canvasback. WHITEBAIT White"bait`, n. (Zoöl.) (a) The young of several species of herrings, especially of the common herring, esteemed a great delicacy by epicures in England. (b) A small translucent fish (Salanx Chinensis) abundant at certain seasons on the coasts of China and Japan, and used in the same manner as the European whitebait. WHITEBEAM White"beam`, n. (Bot.) Defn: The common beam tree of England (Pyrus Aria); -- so called from the white, woolly under surface of the leaves. WHITEBEARD White"beard`, n. Defn: An old man; a graybeard. WHITEBELLY White"bel`ly, n. (Zoöl.) (a) The American widgeon, or baldpate. (b) The prairie chicken. WHITEBILL White"bill`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: The American coot. WHITE-BLAZE White"-blaze`, n. Defn: See White-face. WHITEBLOW White"blow`, n. (Bot.) Defn: Same as Whitlow grass, under Whitlow. WHITEBOY White"boy`, n. 1. A favorite. [Obs.] See White, a., 6. "One of God's whiteboys." Bunyan. 2. One of an association of poor Roman catholics which arose in Ireland about 1760, ostensibly to resist the collection of tithes, the members of which were so called from the white shirts they wore in their nocturnal raids. WHITEBOYISM White"boy`ism, n. Defn: The conduct or principle of the Whiteboys. WHITECAP White"cap`, n. 1. (Zoöl.) (a) The European redstart; -- so called from its white forehead. (b) The whitethroat; -- so called from its gray head. (c) The European tree sparrow. 2. A wave whose crest breaks into white foam, as when the wind is freshening. WHITECOAT White"coat`, n. Defn: The skin of a newborn seal; also, the seal itself. [Sealers' Cant] WHITE-EAR White"-ear`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: The wheatear. WHITE ELEPHANT White elephant. Defn: Something requiring much care and expense and yielding little profit; any burdensome possession. [Slang] WHITE-EYE White"-eye`, n. (Zoöl.) Defn: Any one of several species of small Old World singing of the genus Zosterops, as Zosterops palpebrosus of India, and Z. coerulescens of Australia. The eyes are encircled by a ring of white feathers, whence the name. Called also bush creeper, and white-eyed tit. WHITE-FACE White"-face`, n. Defn: A white mark in the forehead of a horse, descending almost to the nose; -- called also white-blaze. WHITEFISH White"fish`, n. (Zoöl.) (a) Any one of several species of Coregonus, a genus of excellent food fishes allied to the salmons. They inhabit the lakes of the colder parts of North America, Asia, and Europe. The largest and most important American species (C. clupeiformis) is abundant in the Great Lakes, and in other lakes farther north. Called also lake whitefish, and Oswego bass. (b) The menhaden. (c) The beluga, or white whale. Note: Various other fishes are locally called whitefish, as the silver salmon, the whiting (a), the yellowtail, and the young of the bluefish (Pomatomus saltatrix). WHITEFLAW White"flaw`, n. Etym: [See Whitlow.] (Med.) Defn: A whitlow. [Obs.] Holland. WHITE FLY White fly. Defn: Any one of numerous small injurious hemipterous insects of the genus Aleyrodes, allied to scale insects. They are usually covered with a white or gray powder. WHITE-FOOT White"-foot`, n. (Far.) Defn: A white mark on the foot of a horse, between the fetlock and the coffin. WHITE FRIAR White" fri`ar. (Eccl.) Defn: A mendicant monk of the Carmelite order, so called from the white cloaks worn by the order. See Carmelite. WHITE-FRONTED White`-front"ed, a. Defn: Having a white front; as, the white-fronted lemur. White- fronted goose (Zoöl.), the white brant, or snow goose. See Snow goose, under Snow. WHITEHEAD White"head`, n. (Zoöl.) (a) The blue-winged snow goose. (b) The surf scoter. WHITEHEAD TORPEDO; WHITEHEAD White"head` tor*pe"do, or White"head`, n. Defn: A form of self-propelling torpedo. WHITE-HEART White"-heart`, n. (Bot.) Defn: A somewhat heart-shaped cherry with a whitish skin. WHITE HORSE White horse. Defn: A large mass of tough sinewy substance in the head of sperm whales, just above the upper jaw and extending in streaks into the junk above it. It resembles blubber, but contains no oil. Also, the part of the head in which it occurs. WHITE-HOT White"-hot`, a. Defn: White with heat; heated to whiteness, or incandescence. WHITE-LIMED White"-limed`, a. Defn: Whitewashed or plastered with lime. "White-limed walls." Shak. WHITE LIST White list. (a) A list of business concerns regarded as worthy of patronage by reason of compliance with certain conditions, as in regard to treatment of employees; as, the white list of the Consumers' League. [Cant] (b) (New York Stock Exchange) The official list of all transactions, published daily on white paper, divided into sales from 10 to 12, 12 to 2, and 2 to 3. WHITE-LIVERED White"-liv`ered, a. Defn: Having a pale look; feeble; hence, cowardly; pusillanimous; dastardly. They must not be milksops, nor white-livered knights. Latimer. WHITELY White"ly, a. Defn: Like, or coming near to, white. [Obs.] WHITE MUSTARD White mustard. Defn: A kind of mustard (Sinapis alba) with rough-hairy foliage, a long-beaked hispid pod, and pale seeds, which yield mustard and mustard oil. The plant is also grown for forage. WHITEN Whit"en, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Whitened; p. pr. & vb. n. Whitening.] Etym: [OE. whitenen; cf. Icel. hvitna.] Defn: To grow white; to turn or become white or whiter; as, the hair whitens with age; the sea whitens with foam; the trees in spring whiten with blossoms. WHITEN Whit"en, v. t. Defn: To make white; to bleach; to blanch; to whitewash; as, to whiten a wall; to whiten cloth. The broad stream of the Foyle then whitened by vast flocks of wild swans. Macaulay. Syn. -- See Blanch. WHITENER Whit"en*er, n. Defn: One who, or that which, whitens; a bleacher; a blancher; a whitewasher. WHITENESS White"ness, n. Etym: [AS. hwitness.] 1. The quality or state of being white; white color, or freedom from darkness or obscurity on the surface. Chaucer. 2. Want of a sanguineous tinge; paleness; as from terror, grief, etc. "The whiteness in thy cheek." Shak. 3. Freedom from stain or blemish; purity; cleanness. He had kept The whiteness of his soul, and thus men o'er him wept. Byron. 4. Nakedness. [Obs.] Chapman. 5. (Zoöl.) Defn: A flock of swans. WHITENING Whit"en*ing, n. 1. The act or process of making or becoming white. 2. That which is used to render white; whiting. [R.] Whitening stone, a sharpening and polishing stone used by cutlers; also, a finishing grindstone of fine texture. WHITE PERSON White person. Defn: A person of the Caucasian race (6 Fed. Rep. 256). In the time